# DNA BASE SEQUENCE CONTAINING REGIONS INVOLVED IN THE PRODUCTION AND SECRETION OF A PROTEIN, RECOMBINANT DNA INCLUDING THE WHOLE OR A PART OF THE DNA BASE SEQUENCE, AND METHOD OF PRODUCING PROTEINS BY USE OF THE RECOMBINANT DNA

## Claims
DNA Basensequenz, enthaltend einen oder mehrere Bereiche, ausgewählt unter dem Promotorbereich, dem Ribosomen Bindebereich, dem bei der extrazellularen Sekretion von neutraler Protease beteiligten Bereich, dem Strukturgen für neutrale Protease und dem Terminatorbereich, wobei alle vom Gen der neutralen Protease von

## Description
Bacteria of the genus As an effective means of overcoming this disadvantage, attention is being given to the microbial production of proteins by utilizing the cloning technique in which a gene coding for a desired protein is combined with a suitable vector and the resulting recombinant DNA is introduced into a host bacterium to transform it. JOURNAL OF BACTERIOLOGY, Volume 154, N 2, May 1983, pages 831 837 discloses the cloning of a neutral protease gene from Bacillus stearothermophilus in a plasmid and its expression in a bacterium of the genus Bacillus. EP A 133 756 and JOURNAL OF BACTERIOLOGY, Volume 159, N 3, September 1984, pages 811 819 disclose the cloning of the protease gene from B. amyloliquefaciens strain P. More specifically, a DNA fragment containing regions involved in the production and secretion of a desired protein is isolated and combined with a suitable vector to form a recombinant DNA which permits the genetic information concerning the production and secretion of the protein to be expressed in host cells. Then, this recombinant DNA is introduced into a suitable host bacterium, which is cultured to cause the protein to be secreted in large amounts. Thus, the protein can be recovered from the cell free culture medium according to a simple procedure. The DNA fragment used for forming the recombinant DNA obtained by the above described method must contain regions involved in the production and secretion of the desired protein, that is, the promoter region, the ribosome binding region, the structural gene for the desired protein, and the terminator region. The regions involved in the expression of the gene include the promoter region having the 35 and 10 regions which act as RNA polymerase recognition and binding sites and the ribosome binding region defining the base sequence through which the messenger RNA synthesized by RNA polymerase binds ribosomes. The base sequences of these regions are very important for the efficiency of the gene expression. In addition, the distance i.e., the number of bases between these regions are also known to be very important Moran, Jr., et al., Mol. Gen. Genet., In the extracellular secretion of the protein synthesized in the cells as a result of gene expression, the region which codes for the polypeptide chain upstream of the amino end of the protein secreted extracellularly as mature protein is important. The protein newly synthesized in the cells has this polypeptide chain in the form combined with the amino end of the mature protein, but as soon as the polypeptide chain is removed by the action of peptidase, the newly synthesized protein is extracellularly secreted to provide mature protein. Accordingly, the region of the gene which codes for the polypeptide chain is essential to the secretion of the protein synthesized as a result of gene expression. Moreover, it is desirable from the viewpoint of industrial production of proteins that the DNA fragment used for forming the recombinant DNA have the characteristics of permitting high level expression of the gene and efficient secretion of the protein. Thus, in the industrial production of proteins using the genetic engineering techniques explained thus far, it is very important to clone a DNA fragment which is a chromosome segment having the structural gene for a desired protein and regions involved in the expression of the gene and the secretion of the resulting protein, isolate the DNA fragment in a pure form, determine its DNA base sequence, and apply it to practical uses. Bacteria of the genus However, where a foreign gene is to be expressed in host bacilli, the RNA polymerase and ribosomes of bacilli have rigid specificity in relation to the recognition of the promoter region and the ribosome binding region Sueji Horinouchi, Tanpakushitsu Kakusan Koso, From this point of view, an attempt has been made to produce foreign proteins by combining a foreign gene with a DNA base sequence containing the promoter and ribosome binding regions specific for bacilli and allowing this recombinant DNA to be expressed in a host bacillus Williams, D.M., et al., Gene, 16, 199 1981 . Moreover, an effort has also been made to obtain powerful promoter regions and signal sequences for extracellularly secreted enzymes of bacilli Palva, I., et al., Gene, However, in preparing DNA fragments for use in the formation of recombinant DNA molecules containing regions involved in the production and secretion of, for example, neutral protease and particularly its powerful promoter region and signal sequence, it becomes difficult to form recombinant DNA molecules comprising DNA fragments combined with a vector if the size of the chromosome segments obtained by cleaving the chromosomes isolated from a donor microorganism exceeds a certain limit Takagi Y., ed., Experimental Methods for Gene Manipulation , p. 139, Kodansha 1980 . Even if chromosome segments of such an exceedingly large size can be combined with a vector to form recombinant DNA molecules, these recombinant DNA molecules cannot be stably retained within host cells, so that it is impossible to obtain the desired DNA segment by cloning. Thus, it is necessary to select a restriction enzyme which can yield chromosome segments of proper size. However, no restriction enzyme that is suitable for this purpose and can be successfully used in combination with the chromosomes isolated from a donor microorganism is known as yet. Even in the case of restriction enzymes having a cleavage site in the structural gene for neutral protease or its promoter region or signal sequence, they can theoretically be used if the chromosomes are treated under partial cleavage conditions. However, if a plurality of such cleavage sites is present in the DNA fragment, the fragment will unavoidably be cleaved at some of those sites, thus making it difficult to clone the DNA fragment. It is an object of the present invention to provide a DNA base sequence containing regions involved in the production and secretion of neutral protease as well as its derivative sequences and, in particular, a DNA base sequence containing regions involved in high level expression of a gene and efficient secretion of the resulting protein in bacteria of the genus It is another object of the present invention to provide a recombinant DNA including the whole DNA base sequence or at least the DNA base sequence coding for the structural gene for neutral protease. It is still another object of the present invention to provide a method of producing proteins in which a microorganism having said recombinant DNA introduced thereinto is cultured to yield the desired protein corresponding to the structural gene included in the introduced recombinant DNA. These objects of the present invention can be accomplished by Fig. 1 is a diagram showing the DNA base sequence of the present invention containing the neutral protease gene of Fig. 2 is a diagram showing the amino acid sequence of the amino end portion of extracellular neutral protease produced by Fig. 3 is a diagram showing the amino acid sequence of the amino end portion of extracellular neutral protease produced by As a result of investigation using a variety of restriction enzymes, the present inventors have found that a DNA fragment containing the structural gene for neutral protease and its promoter region and signal sequence can be obtained from donor chromosomes under the conditions of partial cleavage with the restriction enzyme Sau3AI and that the size of this DNA fragment is as small as 1.7 kb and, therefore, a recombinant DNA molecule formed by combining it with a vector can be retained in host cells, making it possible to obtain a large amount of purified DNA fragment by cloning. Furthermore, the present inventors have analyzed the base sequence of the resulting DNA fragment to identify the fragment, and thereby completed the present invention. The DNA base sequence of the present invention contains regions involved in the production of a protein by microorganisms and the extracellular secretion of the protein and, in particular, regions involved in the production and secretion of neutral protease. More specifically, the DNA base sequence of the present invention contains one or more regions selected from the group consisting of the promoter region, the ribosome binding region, the region involved in the extracellular secretion of neutral protease, the structural gene and the terminator region, all being of the neutral protease gene of Bacillus amyloliquefaciens strain F deposition No. ATCC 23359 . The specific form of the DNA base sequence of the present invention which contains all of the aforesaid regions is shown in Fig. 1. The regions involved in the expression of the gene include the promoter region having the 35 and 10 regions which act as RNA polymerase recognition and binding sites and the ribosome binding region defining the base sequence with which the messenger RNA synthesized by the RNA polymerase binds ribosomes. The base sequences of these regions are very important for the efficiency of gene expression. In addition, the distance i.e., the number of bases between those regions are also known to be very important Moran, Jr., et al., Mol. Gen. Genet., In the DNA base sequence of Fig. 1, the 35 region The terminator region showing the end of genetic information is also important for the efficiency of gene expression. The mRNA synthesis having started at the promoter region is thought to end at the terminator region located at the tail of the gene. In the present case, the existence of a DNA base sequence which serves to define a high order of structure of DNA and is considered to be the terminator region is noted at the tail of the neutral protease gene Fig. 1 . The DNA base sequence of Fig. 1 in accordance with the present invention contains the structural gene λτ ωτ defining the mature neutral protease protein itself. Generally, an extracellularly secreted protein has an inherent amino acid sequence known as the signal sequence taking part in its secretion, that is, the polypeptide chain located on the upstream side of the amino end of the protein which provides extracellularly accumulated mature protein Tanpakushitsu Kakusan Koso, The region contained in the aforesaid DNA base sequence of the present invention and carrying genetic information concerning the secretion of the protein is believed to be effective beyond species of the genus Thus, the DNA base sequence of the present invention which has been described above with reference to Fig. 1 is involved in high level expression of the gene and efficient secretion of the protein thus synthesized, and has an important significance in the production by More specifically, since the DNA base sequence of the present invention contains the promoter and ribosome binding regions capable of bringing about high level expression of the gene, and the region involved in efficient secretion of the resulting protein, it is possible to combine a desired foreign gene e.g., any of the structural genes for interferon, growth hormone, interleukin, nerve growth factor kallikrein, plasminogen activator, and other physiologically active polypeptides or enzymes on the downstream side of this DNA base sequence and introduce it into a host bacterium of the genus Moreover, the base sequences of the promoter and rebosome binding regions involved in the expression of the gene and the base sequence of the region involved in the secretion of the resulting protein can be cut out of the DNA base sequence of the present invention and used alone or in any combination to produce good results in the expression of the gene and or the secretion of the protein. Furthermore, these regions can also be synthesized and used to produce good results. Thus, the DNA base sequence of the present invention has an important significance in the production of proteins originating from foreign genes. It is obvious that, if DNA base sequences are prepared by substituting the DNA base sequence of the present invention in such a way that the amino acid sequence defined by the region located downstream of the ribosome binding region and coding for a protein remains unchanged, the proteins synthesized by the expression of these substituted DNA base sequences are identical with the protein coded for by the DNA base sequence of the present invention and hence have all the same functions as the latter. Naturally, such DNA base sequences also fall within the scope of the present invention. In addition, derivative sequences obtained by subjecting an arbitrarily selected portion of the DNA base sequence of the present invention to base substitution, insertion, deletion, or transposition also fall within the scope of the present invention, provided that they retain the characteristics constituting the main features of the present invention of the promoter or ribosome binding region or the region involved in the secretion of the protein, that is, high level expression of the gene or efficient secretion of the resulting protein. A DNA fragment having the DNA base sequence of Fig. 1 in accordance with the present invention can be obtained by isolating chromosomes from a microorganism haing the ability to secrete neutral protease extracellularly in large amounts, and cleaving these chromosomes by means of a suitable restriction enzyme. Especially when it is desired to produce neutral protease by introducing the DNA fragment into a host bacterium of the genus Chromosomes can be isolated from a donor microorganism according to the method of Marmur Marmur, J.J., Mol. Biol., 3, 208 1961 or the method of Saito and Miura Saito, H., and Miura, K I., Biochim. Biophys. Acta, Even in the case of restriction enzymes having a cleavage site in the structural gene for neutral protease or its promoter region or signal sequence, they can theoretically be used if the chromosomes are treated under partial cleavage conditions. However, if a plurality of such cleavage sites is present in the DNA fragment, it will unavoidably be cleaved at some of those sites, thus making it difficult to clone the DNA fragment. Accordingly, it is preferable to use a restriction enzyme which permits a DNA fragment having the DNA base sequence of Fig. 1 in accordance with the present invention to be cut out of the chromosomes under partial cleavage conditions in the form of a short segment. An example of such a restriction enzyme is Sau3AI. The expression recombinant DNA including the DNA base sequence of the present invention as used herein means any recombinant DNA obtained by combining vector DNA with a DNA fragment having the whole or a part of the DNA base sequence of the present invention which contains the neutral protease gene. In this connection, such recombinant DNAs can be obtained not only by combining a DNA fragment having the DNA base sequence of the present invention with an extranuclear genetic element such as a plasmid, phage or cosmid capable of being retained within bacterial cells, but also by inserting a DNA fragment including the DNA base sequence of the present invention into the chromosomal DNA of a host microorganism through, for example, intracellular recombination. It is to be understood that all such recombinant DNAs fall within the scope of the present invention. The recombinant DNAs of the present invention can be obtained according to the genetic engineering technique known as cloning. In the practice of the present invention, it is suitable for the intended purpose of the present invention to use as the vector DNA a plasmid or phase capable of being retained within bacterial cells, because this results in a large number of copies of the DNA fragment including the DNA base sequence. In other words, the presence of a large number of copies of the DNA fragment in bacterial cells makes it possible to produce neutral protease in large amounts and, moreover, to recover the DNA fragment in large amounts, thereby facilitating the improvement of neutral protease at the DNA level. For purposes of cloning, there may be used any vector that is capable of amplification in host cells. However, the use of vectors having a single cleavage site for the restriction enzyme BamHI, BglII or Sau3AI is convenient for the preparation of recombinant DNA molecules by combining them with the aforesaid DNA fragment. Examples of such vectors are plasmid pUB110 and complex plasmids having the whole or a part of its structure in cases where Transformation can be carried out according to any of the commonly used methods. For example, where Where In order to prepare the desired recombinant DNA molecule from the transformed strain thus obtained, any of conventional methods for the preparation of plasmids or phage DNA may be employed. There is a considerable literature on these methods Maniatis, T., et al., Molecular Cloning , Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory 1982 Takagi Y., et al., Manual for Gene Manipulation , Kodansha 1982 . The recombinant DNA molecule thus obtained comprises the vector combined with a DNA fragment having the desired structural gene for neutral protease and its promoter region and signal sequence. By culturing a bacterium having been transformed with the recombinant DNA of the present invention, the protein corresponding to the recombinant DNA is produced in much larger amounts as compared with conventional methods. Although the term protein refers to neutral protease in the present case, it is natural that this term comprehends all proteins corresponding to DNA base sequences obtained by modifying a portion or portions of the DNA base sequence included in the recombinant DNA. In carrying out the method of producing proteins in accordance with the present invention, a protein may be intracellularly or extracellularly produced by using a baterium having been transformed with the recombinant DNA of the present invention. For example, a protein is intracellularly produced by using a bacterium having been transformed with a recombinant DNA including the DNA base sequence deprived of the region involved in the secretion of the protein, and this method also falls within the scope of the present invention. However, if neutral protease is to be produced on an industrial scale, it is desirable for convenience of recovery and purification of the enzyme protein that the enzyme be secreted out of the productive bacterial cells, that is, into the culture medium. By transforming The following examples are given to illustrate the method of preparing the DNA base sequence of the present invention containing the neutral protease gene of The donor chromosomal DNA fragments obtained in Example 1 were combined with plasmid pUB110 which had been completely cleaved by the restriction enzyme BamHI Takara Shuzo Co. and then treated with alkaline phosphatase of More specifically, the treatment of pUB110 with BamHI was carried out by incubating the reaction system at 37 C for 4 hours. The reaction system contained 100 µg of pUB110, 50 units of BamHI Takara Shuzo Co. , 7mM MgCl₂, 100mM NaCl, 2mM 2 mercaptoethanol and 0.01 bovine serum albumin in a 10mM Tris HCl buffer solution pH 8.0 . The resulting BamHI cleaved pUB110 was extracted with phenol three times and then recovered by precipitation with ethanol. The recovered puB110 was treated with alkaline phosphatase of Using T₄ ligase Takara Shuzo Co. , the donor chromosomal DNA fragments obtained in Example 1 were combined with the BamHI and phosphatase treated pUB110. The reaction system contained 50 µl of the donor chromosomal DNA fragments, 20 µl of pUB110, 5 units of T₄ ligase, 6.6mM MgCl₂, 10mM dithiothreitol and 1mM ATP adenosine triphosphate in a 66mM Tris HCl buffer solution pH 7.5 . The reaction was carried out at 15 C for 4 hours. After completion of the reaction, a sample was analyzed by 1 agarose gel electrophoresis. This revealed that pUB110 used as the vector was combined with the donor chromosomal DNA segments to form recombinant DNA molecules. Using the recombinant DNA molecules thus obtained, transformation was carried out according to the protoplast method of Chang Chang, S., and Cohen, S.N., Mol. Gen. Genet., The kanamycin resistant strains obtained by the transformation were inoculated onto the TBAB agar media Difco containing 0.8 casein and 40 µg mℓ kanamycin, incubated at 37 C for 14 hours and then examined for the presence of a halo around each colony. Among about ten thousand kanamycin resistant strains tested, one strain 150 formed a significantly large halo around the colony. The large halo forming strain obtained by isolating the single colony of the transformed strain 150 described in Example 2 was cultured in 50 ml of the Pen Assay medium Difco at 37 C for 14 hours. Thereafter, the cells were collected, washed with a 50mM Tris HCl buffer solution pH 7.5 containing 5mM EDTA and 50mM NaCl, and then used in the preparation of a plasmid by the alkali method Birnboim, H.C., and Poly, J., Nucleic Acid Res., The recombinant plasmid pNP150 thus obtained was used to transform The transformed Fig. 1 is a diagrammatic illustration of the DNA base sequence so determined. As can be seen from this figure, the entire amino acid sequence of neutral protease of On the upstream side of the structural gene, there may be seen the promoter region necessary for the expression of the gene and, in particular, the so called 35 and 10 regions acting as RNA polymerase recognition and binding sites. The ribosome binding region is noted downstream of the promoter region, and an open reading frame coding for the protein begins at the protein synthesis initiation site located several bases downstream of the ribosome binding region. Of this open reading frame, the region coding for the polypeptide chain upstream of the amino end of neutral protease includes an important part involved in the secretion of the protein, though that polypeptide chain will be removed during the scretion of the protein. On the downstream side of the termination condon showing the end of the open reading frame, there may be seen a DNA base sequence capable of defining a secondary structure and considered to be the terminator region. Thus, it was confirmed that the recombinant plasmid pNP150 included the whole of the neutral protease gene. The Neutral protease was purified in the usual manner. More specifically, the cell free culture medium was collected and precipitated with ammonium sulfate 75 saturation and then with acetone 30 70 fraction . The 30 70 fraction with aceton was subjected to column chromatography using CM Sepharose Pharmacia Fine Chemicals . As a result, there was obtained a homogeneous protein. With conventional strains yielding a large amount of contaminants such as amylase, levansucrase etc., it has been impossible to obtain a homogeneous enzyme protein by such a simple procedure Currently, this enzyme is being produced on an industrial scale by culturing