# Process for preparing 3H Phenothlazin 3 ones.

## Abstract
3H Phenothiazine 3 ones are prepared by the reaction of a suitable ο mercaptoaniline with a suitable quinone in a preferably polar solvent.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of preparing a 3H phenothiazine 3 one compound, optionally substituted in either or both benzenoid rings, comprising the reaction of 1 mole of o mercaptoaniline or an appropriately substituted o mercaptoaniline with 2 moles of quinone or an appropriately substituted quinone in a suitable solvent. 2. A method as claimed in Claim 1 for preparing 3H phenothiazine 3 one comprising the reaction of 1 mole of o mercaptoaniline with 2 moles of quinone in a suitable solvent. 3. A method as claimed in Claim 1 for preparing 2,7 dimethoxy 3H phenothiazin 3 one comprising the reaction of 1 mole of 2 amino 5 methoxy thiophenol with 2 moles of 2 methoxy p benzoquinone in a suitable solvent. 4. A method as claimed in any preceding claim carried out at room temperature. 5. A method as claimed in any preceding claim in which the solvent is a polar solvent. A A method as claimed in any preceding claim in which the solvent is methanol, ethanol, acetic acid pr a mixture of one or more of them with water.

## Description
TITLE OF THE INVENTIONPROCESS FOR PREPARING 3H PHENOTHIAZ IN 3 ONES BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention involves the preparation of 3H phenothiazin 3 ones. The compound. 3H phenothiazin 3 one is described in the prior art. The process taught for its preparations is illustrated by the following equation.EMI1.1 tsee Terdic et al. Rev. Roum. de Chim, 13, 834 836 1968 1 A novel process for preparing 3H phenothiazin 3 one and derivatives has been discovered.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION This invention is directed to a process for preparing 3H phenothiazin 3 ones by the direct reaction of a benzoquinone and a 2 aminothiophenof. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION An embodiment of the invention is a process for preparing the compound 3H phenothiazin 3 one, as illustrated by the following equation.EMI2.1 The reaction requires 2 moles of quinone B per mole of aniline A. The reaction is readily carried out at room temperature. The reaction will also take place at lower temperature6 e.g. 10 C or lower or at temperatures above room temperature. No catalyst or coupling agent is required. Any suitable solvent may be used. It is advantageous to use a solvent which will dissolve the A, B and D components of the reaction and in which C is substantially insoluble. thus permitting direct recovery of substantially pure C. Useful preferred solvents are exemplified by lower alkanols, acetic acid, mixtures of alkanol or acetic acid with water and the like. The following examples illustrate the present process. EXAMPLE 1 3H Phenothiazin 3 one To a stirring suspension of 1.72 kg 16 mol of benzoquinone in 13 L MeOH at room temperature was added slowly a solution of 1.0 kg 8 mol of 2 aminothiophenol in 600 ml MeOH over a period of 1 hour. The resulting red mixture was stirred at room temperature for another 2 hours and then the 3H Pheno thiazin 3 one was filtered off. This phenothiaz 3one was washed thoroughly with methanol and dried to give 1.07 kg of 3H phenothiazin 3 one 61.49S yield . EXAMPLE 2 2.7 Dimethoxy 3H phenothiazin 3 one Step 1 2 Methoxv u benzoauinone Vanillin 2.432 kg was added to a solution of sodium hydroxide 640 g in water 8 1 and cooled to 10 C with an ice bath. Then a solution of hydrogen peroxide 30t 2.4 1 was added at a rate to keep the temperature of the reaction mixture below 300C. The addition completed about 2 hours , the reaction mixture was added over a period of 3 hours to a suspension of sodium periodate 880 g in water 4 1 and acetic acid 640 ml cooled with an ice bath to 100C the temperature of the reaction mixture was kept below 350C .The precipitate was filtered, washed with cold water followed by ethanol hexane 1 1 mixture and air dried to afford the title compound 1.9 keg , m.p. 144 147 C. SteP 2 2 Amino 5 methoxvthioPhenol To a solution of potassium hydroxide 8N 1.3 1 was added 2 amino 6 methoxybenzothiazole 750 g and the mixture was ref fluxed for 18 hours. The resulting solution was neutralized by the addition of concentrated HC1, to pH 8.0, then acetic acid to pH 6.0. The precipitate which formed was filtered and washed with water to afford the title compound which was uded immediately in Step 3.Step 3 2,7 DimethoxY 3H Phenothiazin 3 one To a suspension of 2 methoxy p benzoquinone. 1.15 kg Step 1 in methanol 8 1 was added portionwise a suspension of 2 amino 5 methoxythiophenol from Step 2 in methanol 6 1 . The reaction mixture was stirred for 15 minutes at room temperature, filtered and the collected solid washed with methanol 8 1 . The product isolated was swished with DMF 16 1 for 2 hours, filtered and air dried. The crude material was dissolved in hotDMF 16 1 1300 1400C , filtered through Celite and the filtrate cooled to room temperature. The crystals were filtered, washed with methanol 8 1 and air dried to afford the title compound 703 g , m.p. 237 2380C. Some advantages of the present process over the prior art process are that 1 it utilizes a simple, readily available, cheap quinone namely, benzoquinone or a derivative thereof, 2 it can be carried out at room temperature and yet afford a high yield and 3 the byproduct hydroquinone can be easily oxidized and recirculated for use in the process. Claims to the invention follow.