# PROGRAMMABLE SEMICONDUCTOR MEMORY DEVICE

## Claims
Programmierbare Halbleiterspeichervorrichtung mit

## Description
The present invention relates to a programmable semiconductor memory device and, more particularly, to a programmable semiconductor memory device such as a programmable read memory PROM , a field programmable logic array FPLA , and the like, comprising a plurality of word lines a plurality of bit lines crossing said word lines programmable memory cells arranged at respective crossing points of said word lines and bit lines a word line address decoder for selecting one of said word lines in response to an input address signal and a word line driver means for absorbing a read current from the word line selected by the word line address decoder during a read operation of said programmable memory cells, and for absorbing a current from the word line selected by the word line address decoder during a write operation of said programmable memory cells in which a write current flows from a selected bit line to said selected word line through said memory cell at their crossing point. In general, a programmable semiconductor memory device comprises programmable memory cells arranged on respective crossing portions between a plurality of word lines and a plurality of bit lines. Writing data into or reading data from a selected memory cell is carried out by driving a selected bit line and a selected word line. The selection of the word line is effected by a word line address decoder. The driving of the word line is effected by a word line driver. That is, writing data into or reading data from the selected programmable memory cell is carried out by absorbing a current from the selected bit line, through the selected memory cell and through the selected word line, into the word line driver. Whereas the accessing speed for selecting and driving a word line increases with the decrease of the emitter area of each output transistor in the word line driver, the emitter area of the output transistor should be large enough to enable it to withstand the electric current absorbed by the word line driver. Conventionally, a single word line driver is commonly used both for writing and for reading. The current absorbed during writing, however, is much larger than the current absorbed during reading, as later described in more detail with reference to the drawings. Therefore, the emitter areas of the output transistors in the word line driver are designed to be able to withstand the write in currents. However, the use of such powerful output transistors raises the problem of an undesirable reduction of the accessing speed to a word line during a usual read operation. This problem has been pointed out in an article of 1978 WESCON TECHNICAL PAPERS, Los Angeles, California, 12th 14th September 1978, vol. 22, section 9 2, pages 1 6, Electronic Conventions, Inc. R.L. CLINE Design limitations in bipolar proms 16K and larger . According to this article, the large transistors needed to handle the current for programming fuse links are incompatible with optimum AC performance. It is proposed in this document to provide two sets of decoders, one for programming having large transistors or SCRs, and one for reading having small transistors, respectively to create a slow but adequately powerful path link for programming and a high speed read out path link. But such an arrangement is not sufficient to solve the considered problem. It has been recognized that this problem derived from the high parasitic capacitance which is introduced by big transistors as a result of the large emitter area thereof. In view of the above mentioned problem in the conventional technique, an object of the present invention is, in a programmable semiconductor memory device, to improve the word line accessing speed during a read operation based on the idea of separately providing a write only word line driver and a read word line driver, and of setting aside the influence of the parasitic capacitance of the output transistor in the write only word line driver. To attain the above object, there is provided, according to the present invention, a programmable semiconductor memory device in which the word line driver means comprises two separate drivers, both being driven in parallel by the word line address decoder, namely a read word line driver, for absorbing said read current during a read operation, and a write only word line driver, for absorbing said write current during the write operation, and a cutting means is provided for cutting the connections between said write only word line driver and said word lines, said cutting means comprising a plurality of fuses respectively connected between said write only word line driver and said word lines, the arrangement being such that said fuses can be broken after a writing operation is completed. The read word line driver comprises preferably a current absorption inhibiting means for inhibiting the absorption of current from the word lines to the read word line driver during a write operation of the programmable memory cells. The above object and features of the present invention will be more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments with reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein Fig. 1 is a block circuit diagram showing a conventional programmable semiconductor memory device Fig. 2 is a block circuit diagram showing a programmable semiconductor memory device according to an embodiment of the present invention Fig. 3 is a circuit diagram showing details of the circuit shown in Fig. 2 and Fig. 4 is a circuit diagram showing a programmable semiconductor memory device according to another embodiment of the present invention. Before describing the embodiments of the present invention, a conventional programmable semiconductor memory device will be first described with reference to Fig. 1. As shown in Fig. 1, conventionally a single word line driver is commonly used both during writing and reading. That is, writing data into a programmable memory cell PMC arranged on an intersecting portion between a selected bit line BL and a selected word line WL is carried out in such a manner that a transistor T in a word line driver DR absorbs a write in current from the bit line BL through the programmable memory cell PMC and through the word line WL. When the write in current is larger than a predetermined value, the programmable memory cell PMC is destroyed by the write in current, and thus a data, for example, 0 , is written in to the memory cell PMC. Conversely, when the write in current is smaller than the above mentioned predetermined value, the programmable memory cell PMC is not destroyed, and thus a data, for example, 1 , is written in. Therefore, the output transistor T in the word line driver DR should be able to absorb a large current of, for example, 125 mA through 200 mA, which is sufficient to destroy the programmable memory cell PMC. On the other hand, reading data written in the programmable memory cell PMC is carried out by trying to absorb a read out current from the bit line BL through the programmable memory cell PMC and through the word line WL to the same output transistor T in the word line driver DR. When the programmable memory cell PMC is conductive for the current, the data 1 is read out. When it is not conductive, the data 0 is read out. It should be noted, however, that the read out current need not be as large as the write in current. Since the conventional word line driver DR is commonly used both for a read operation and for a write operation, the emitter area of the output transistor T in the word line driver DR is designed to be large enough to be able to withstand the write in current. However, because of this large emitter area, the output transistor has a large parasitic capacitance which raises the problem of an undesirable reduction in the accessing speed to the word line during a read operation, as mentioned previously. Figure 2 shows a general constitution of a programmable semiconductor memory device according to an embodiment of the present invention. In Fig. 2, a word line decoder WD has a plurality of inputs for receiving input address signals A₀ , ... , and A The operation of the circuit shown in Fig. 2 is as follows. To write data into the programmable memory cell PMC, a write inhibiting signal W is applied to an input terminal of the current absorption inhibiting circuit INH. The circuit INH then makes the collectors of the output transistors T After the write operation is completed, the cutting circuits C Since the output transistors T Figure 3 shows details of the circuit shown in Fig. 2. In Fig. 3, the read word line driver DR comprises, between the output O Between the other outputs O₂ through O The write only word line driver DW comprises the output transistors T In this embodiment, the cutting circuits C A plurality of programmable memory cells PMC In the circuit shown in Fig. 3, to write data into the programmable memory cells PMC After completion of the write operation, a current much larger than the write in current is supplied to the line AW. This large current breaks the fuses F Figure 4 shows another embodiment of the present invention. In Fig. 4, the fuse type programmable elements F In the foregoing embodiments, the read word line driver DR includes the current absorption inhibiting circuit INH. However, even when the current absorption inhibiting circuit INH is eliminated, the object of the present invention is still attained. That is, when the current absorption inhibiting circuit INH is eliminated, the write in current is absorbed not only by the write only word line driver DW but also by the read word line driver DR. However, since the current absorbed by the read word line driver DR is much smaller than the total write in current, the emitter area of each of the output transistors T