# N naphthyl alkyl hydroxylamines.

## Abstract
N Hydroxy 5 ,6 ,7 or 8 alkoxy 1 or 2 naphthalinalkanamines, e.g. of formula I CHEM R1 hydrogen, C1 8alkyl or C4 6cycloalkyl, R2 C1 6alkyl, R3 hydrogen or halogen, and A is C1 6alkylene and their physiologically hydrolysable and acceptable esters. The said compounds are lipoxygenase inhibitors.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An N hydroxy 5 ,6 ,7 or 8 alkoxy 1 or 2 naphthalinalkana mine or physiologically hydrolysable and acceptable ester thereof, in free base or acid addition salt form. 2. A compound according to claim 1 of formula IEMI25.1 wherein R1 is hydrogen, C1 8alkyl or C4 6cycloalkyl, R2 is C1,6alkyl, R3 is hydrogen or halogen and A is C1 6alkylene, or physiologically hydrolysable and acceptable ester thereof, in free base or acid addition salt form. 3. A compound according to claim 2 of formula I, wherein R1 is hydrogen or C1 6alykl, in free base or acid addition salt form. 4. A compound according to claim 2 which is N hydroxy N methyl 7 propoxy 2 naphthalinethanamine in free base or acid addi tion salt form. 5. A compound according to claim 2 selected from the group consisting of N hydroxy 7 propoxy 2 naphthalinethanamine N hydroxy N methyl 7 hexyloxy 2 naphthalinethanamine N hydroxy 7 hexyloxy 2 naphthal I nethanami ne N hydroxy N methyl 3 bromo 7 methoxy 2 naphthalinpropana mine N hydroxy N methyl 7 methoxy 2 naphthalinpropanamine and N hydroxy N methyl 7 propoxy 2 naphthalinmethanamine in free base or acid addition salt form. 6. A compound according to claim 2 selected from the group consisting of N hydroxy N methyl 7 ethoxy 2 naphthal inethanamine N hydroxy N methyl 7 butoxy 2 naphthalinethanamine N cyclohexyl N hydroxy 7 propoxy 2 naphthalinethanamine N hydroxy N i.butoxy 7 propoxy 2 naphthalinethanamine N hydroxy N methyl 6 pentoxy 2 naphthalinethanamine N ethyl N hydroxy 6 propoxy 2 naphthalinethanamine N hydroxy N methyl 6 propoxy 2 naphthalinethanamine N hydroxy N methyl 8 butoxy 2 naphthalinethanamine N ethyl N hydroxy 8 butoxy 2 naphthalinethanamine N hydroxy N methyl 8 propoxy 2 naphthalinethanamine N hydroxy N methyl 6 propoxy 1 naphthal inethanamine N hydroxy N methyl 6 butoxy 1 naphthalinethanamine N hydroxy N methyl 8 propoxy 1 naphthalinethanamine N hydroxy N propyl 8 propoxy 1 naphthal inethanamine N hydroxy 7 propoxy 1 naphthalinethanamine N hydroxy N methyl 7 propoxy 1 naphthalinethanamine N hydroxy N methyl 7 pentoxy 2 naphthalinmethanamine N hydroxy N methyl 7 butoxy 2 naphthalinmethanamine N hydroxy N methyl 2 7 methoxy 2 naphthalinyl propylamine N hydroxy N methyl 2 7 propoxy 2 naphthallnyl propylamine N hydroxy N methyl 3 7 methoxy 2 naphthalinyl propyl 2 amine N hydroxy N methyl 3 7 propoxy 2 naphthalinyl propyl 2 amine in free base or acid addition salt form. 7. Process for the production of an N hydroxy 5 ,6 ,7 or 8 alkoxy l or 2 naphthalinalkanamine, for example a compound of formula I as defined in claim 2, or physiologically hydro lysable and acceptable ester thereof, in free base or acid addition salt form, which process comprises a reacting a 5 ,6 ,7 or 8 alkoxy 1 or 2 naphthalinalkane in which the alkane moiety bears a leaving group, for example a compound of formula IIEMI27.1 wherein Z is a leaving group and A, R2 and R3 have the meanings given in claim 2, with hydroxylamine or an appropriately N monosubstituted hydroxylamine, for example a compound of formula III HO NH R1 III wherein R1 has the meaning given in claim 2 b when required, transforming an N hydroxy 5 ,6 ,7 or 8 alkoxy 1 or 2 naphthalinalkanamine thus obtained into another such naphthalinalkanamlne, for example alkylating or cycloalkylating a compound of formula I thus obtained wherein R1 is hydrogen to obtain a corresponding compound wherein R is Cl,galkyl or C4,6cycloalkyl and c when required, converting an N hydroxy 5 ,6 ,7 or 8 alkoxy 1 or 2 naphthalinalkanamine, for example compound of formula I, obtained in accordance with step a or step b into a physiologically hydrolysable and acceptable ester thereof and d recovering the N hydroxy 5 ,6 ,7 or 8.alkoxy 1 or 2 naphthalinalkanamine, for example compound of formula I, and physiologically hydrolysable and acceptable ester thereof, thus obtained as the free base or as an acid addition salt thereof. 8. A pharmaceutical composition comprising an N hydroxy 5 ,6 ,7 or 8 alkoxy 1 or 2 naphthalinalkanamine, for example com pound of formula I, as defined in any one of claims 2 to 6, or physiologically hydrolysable and acceptable ester thereof, in free base or pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt form, together with a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent or carrier therefor. 9. An N hydroxy 5 ,6 ,7 or 8 al koxy 1 or 2 naphthalinalkan amine, for example compound of formula I,as defined In any one of claims. 2 to 6, or physiologically hydrolysable and accep table ester thereof, in free base or pharmaceutically accep table acid addition salt form, for use as a pharmaceutical, for example for use as a lipoxygenase inhibitor. 10. An N hydroxy 5 ,6 ,7 or 8 alkoxy 1 or 2 napthalinalkan amine, for example compound of formula I,as defined in any one of claims 2 to 6, or physiologically hydrolysable and acceptable ester thereof, in free base or pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt form, for use in the prophy laxis or treatment of asthma, inflammation or psoriasis.

## Description
N NAPHTHVL ALKYL HYDROXYLAMINES The present invention relates to novel N naphthyl alkyl hydroxylamines, processes for their production, pharmaceutical compositions comprising them and their use as pharmaceuticals. Möhrle et al. Monathsheft für Chemie 108 2 , 273 278 1977 Chem. Ber. 109 3 , 1106 1112 1976 and Arch. Pharm. 314 10 , 836 841 1981 , have described various N hydroxy 1hydroxy 2 naphthalinmethanamines and N hydroxy 2 hydroxy 1naphthalinmethanamines and derivatives. Several of these compounds are described as unstable or as having not been isolated as such. No utility for any of these compounds is proposed.In accordance with the present invention it has now surprisingly been found that both N hydroxy 1 and 2 naphthalinalkanamines bearing an alkoxy substituent in the 5 , 6 , 7 or 8 position of the naphthalin moiety possess valuable pharmaceutical properties as hereinafter described.In its broadest aspect the present invention accordingly provides An N hydroxy 5 ,6 ,7 or 8 alkoxy 1 or 2 naphthalinalkanamine or physiologically hydrolysable and acceptable ester thereof, In free base or acid addition salt form.Preferred N hydroxy naphthalinalkanamines and esters in accordance with the present invention are compounds of formula I EMI2.1 wherein R1 is hydrogen, C1 8alkyl or C4 6cycloalkyl, R2 is Cl 6alkyl, R3 is hydrogen or halogen and A is C1 6alkylene, and the physiologically hydrolysable and acceptable esters thereof. In accordance with conventional structural representation, in formula I the group A N R1 OH may occupy the 1 or 2 position only, R3 may occupy the 1 ,2 ,3 or 4 position only and the groupR20 may occupy the 5 ,6 ,7 or 8 position only .Alkyl groups as R1 and R2 may be branched or straight chain. In the case of R2 straight chain alkyl groups are preferred.When R1 is alkyl it is preferably Cl 4alkyl, especially methyl.When R1 is cycloalkyl it may be e.g. cyclohexyl.R2 is preferably C3 5alkyl, especially n propyl.By halogen is meant chlorine, fluorine or bromine. Preferably R3 is hydrogen. Alkylene moieties A may be branched or straight chain. Compounds of formula I wherein A is branched chain are of particular interest, e.g. for the treatment or prophylaxis of asthma or inflammation as hereinafter described, especially where e.g. i.v. administration is intended. Otherwise compounds of formula I whereinA is straight chain will generally be preferred, in particular for use in the treatment of psoriasis as hereinafter described.Most preferably A is C1,3alkylene, especially CH2 2 or CH2 3 , most preferably CH2 2 .The group R20 is suitably in the 6 ,7 or 8 position. In one group of compounds, when the group A N R1 OH is in the 1 position, the group R20 is in the 6 or 7 position. In a second group, when the group A N R1 OH is in the 2 position, the groupR20 is in the 7 position.A group of compounds of formula I are those wherein R1 is hydrogen or Cl,gaikyl. By the term physiologically hydrolysable and acceptable ester as applied to the N hydroxy naphthalinalkanamines of the invention, e.g. the compounds of formula I, is meant esters in which the N hydroxy group is esterified, e.g. acylated, and which are hydrolysable under physiological conditions to yield an acid which is itself physiologically acceptable, e.g. non toxic, at desired dosage levels. Such esters include e.g. esters with carboxylic acids, for example C1 4alkyl carboxylic acids, such as the acetic and propionic acid esters.The present invention also provides a process for the production of an N hydroxy 5 ,6 ,7 or 8 alkoxy 1 or 2 naphthalin alkanamine, for example a compound of formula I as defined above, or physiologically hydrolysable and acceptable ester thereof, in free base or acid addition salt form, which process comprises a reacting a 5 ,6 ,7 or 8 alkoxy 1 or 2 naphthalinalkane in which the alkane moiety bears a leaving group, for example a compound of formula IIEMI4.1 wherein Z is a leaving group and A, R2 and R3 have the meanings given above, with hydroxylamine or an appropriately N monosubstituted hydroxylamine, for example a compound of formula III HO NH R1 III wherein R1 has the meaning given above b optionally transforming an N hydroxy 5 ,6 ,7 or 8 alkoxy 1or 2 naphthalin alkanamine obtained in accordance with step a into another such naphthalinalkanamine, for example alkylating or cycloalkylating a compound of formula I thus obtained wherein R1 is hydrogen to obtain a corresponding compound wherein RI isC1 8alkyl or C4 6cycloalkyl c when required, converting an N hydroxy 5 ,6 ,7 or 8 alkoxy 1 or 2 naphthalinalkanamine, for example a compound of formulaI as defined above, obtained in accordance with step a or step b , into a physiologically hydrolysable and acceptable ester thereof and d recovering the N hydroxy 5 ,6 ,7 or 8 alkoxy 1 or 2naphthalinalkanamine, for example compound of formula I, or physiologically hydrolysable and acceptable estere thereof thus obtained, as the free base or as an acid addition salt thereof.Process step a above may be carried out in accordance with means known in the art, for example by reaction of II with III in the presence of an inert solvent or diluent at a temperature of fromO to 100 C. Suitable leaving groups, e.g. as Z are, for example, halogen atoms, in particular chlorine or bromine atoms, or the methylsulfonyloxy group. Conventiently the reaction is carried out in the presence of a base such as, e.g. pyridine, tri ethylamine, or sodium or potassium carbonate.Transformation step b may be carried out in accordance with any appropriate technique known in the art, e.g. by conventional alkylation e.g. reaction with an appropriate alkyl halide.Step c may also be carried out in accordance with any of the techniques known in the art for the esterification of hydroxylamines, for example by reaction with an appropriate acylhalide, e.g. acylchloride, in the presence of an acid binding agent, at temperatures of from 10 to 50 C, e.g. as hereinafter described in example 30. Compounds of the invention may be recovered from the initially obtained reaction mixture as such, i.e. in free base form or in acid addition salt form. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts, e.g. for pharmaceutical use, include both salts with inorganic acids, such as the hydrochlorides as well as salts with organic acids.The starting materials of formula II may be obtained in accordance with known procedures, for example by direct halogenation, e.g. bromination of compounds of formula IVEMI6.1 to produce compounds of formula II wherein A is CH2 and X is halogen or in accordance with the reaction sequence shown below, to produce compounds of formula II wherein A is C2 6alkylene andX is methylsulfonyloxy EMI7.1 SEP 0 SEP A2 C00R4 tb SEP oB SEP g tb SEP o SEP c3 SEP o tb SEP U SEP cr SEP o tb SEP yS SEP yss tb SEP C SEP fi tb SEP A2 SEP SEP C15alkylene SEP C2H5O SEP P A2 COOC2H5 tb SEP A3 SEP SEP C26alkylene SEP b tb SEP o SEP X SEP z SEP C SEP alkyl, SEP especially tb SEP N SEP or SEP ethyl tb SEP 8 SEP SEP A30H SEP tb SEP u, tb 0QN SEP A tb SEP 3 tb SEP O SEP sIll SEP o tb SEP T SEP tb SEP 1F SEP SEP CM tb SEP SEP r SEP z tb SEP . SEP CM tb SEP O tb SEP Kr SEP 7 SEP O SEP S SEP O SEP X tb SEP aS SEP S SEP U SEP U SEP U SEP w SEP XA tb SEP SEP to tb SEP 9 SEP SEP Q SEP E SEP g tb SEP çJ SEP e tb Compounds of formulae IV and V are known from the literature or may be prepared analogously to the known compounds. Thus the compound 2 methoxy 7 methyl naphthalin of formula IV and its preparation are described in Chemical Abstracts 62, 13097 and the compound 7 methoxy 2 tetralone of formula V is commercially available e.g. from the company Aldrich.Halogenation of compounds of formula IV may be carried out e.g.as hereinafter described in example 23a. Individual reaction steps leading from compounds of formula V, through compounds of formula VIII to II may be carried out e.g. as hereinafter described in examples la, ib, le and if. R20 in the compounds of formula V and II may be the same. If desired however, substitution of this group may conveniently be effected between steps b and e , e.g. in accordance with the procedures of examples ic and id. This procedure will be particularly advantageous e.g. in instances where end products are desired in which the group R20is other than methoxy and the corresponding starting material of formula V may be less readily available than the methoxy derivative.To produce compounds wherein A2 is branched chain alkylene, this may in certain instances be more conveniently effected by derivatisation of a straight chain alkylene moiety A2 at the formulaVII phase in accordance with standard chemical procedures, e.g.in accordance with the methods described in examples 26 and 28.The following examples are illustrative of the process for the preparation of the compounds of the invention. EXAMPLE 1Synthesis of N hydroxy N methyl 7 propoxy 2 naphthalinethanamine Formula I A CH2 2 2 position R1 CH, R20 7 nCqH70 R3 Hi. 14 g 7 propoxy 2 naphthalinethyl methanesulfonate, 17 g N methylhydroxylamine hydrochloride and 40 ml triethylamine in 400 ml abs. ethanol are heated for 18 hours under reflux under an atmosphere of argon. The reaction mixture is evaporated, the residue boiled out 3x with ethyl ether and filtered. The title compound crystallises out on concentration of the combined ether phases m.p. 113 115eC. The starting material for the above process is obtained as follows la. 3,4 Dihydro 7 methoxy 2 naphthalin acetic acid ethyl ester Formula VI Aê Ch2 R2O 7 CH3O R3 H R4 C2H5 11 g sodium are added over a period of 3 hrs. to 320 ml ethanol under an argon atmosphere. After cooling to room temperature 52.4 g phosphonacetic acid triethyl ester are added. The mixture is again cooled to room temperature, 41.2 g 7 methoxy 2 tetralone are added and the reaction mixture is stirred for ca. 12 hrs. at room temperature. The residue is taken up in ethyl ether, shaken out with H20, shaken with IN HCl and NaHC03 solution, dried overMgS04 and evaporated, and the obtained dark red oil distilled under vacuum. The title compound distills off at 155 160 0.1 mm Hg. ib. 7 Methoxy 2 naphthalin acetic acid ethyl ester 43.6 g of the product of step la. and 70 ml decahydronaphthalene are stirred for 18 hours at 200 with 2 g 10 palladiumichar coal. The reaction mixture is cooled to room temperature, filtered over Hyflo and washed with ethanol and methylene chloride.The filtrate is evaporated, the solid residue slurried in hexane and filtered. The residue is retained. The filtrate is distilled and the residue taken up in ethyl ether, crystallised by evaporation and the obtained crystals combined with the retained residue. The title compound is obtained on re crystallisation from hexane m.p. 65 68 C. ic. 7 Hydroxy 2 naphthalin acetic acid ethyl ester 55 ml borontribromide are added over 15 mins. to a solution of 70 g of the product of step ib. in 500 ml methylene chloride precooled to 10 C and under an inert atmosphere. The reaction mixture is stirred for 1.5 hrs. at 10eC, poured onto ice water and the obtained suspension filtered. The residue is washed with H20 and dried to yield the title compound m.p. 133 135eC. id. 7 Propoxy 2 naphthalin acetic acid ethyl ester 21 g of the product of step ic. are added to 27 g 1 bromopropane, 10 ml hexametapol, 25 g dry K2C03 and 190 ml di isopropylketone under an inert atmosphere and the mixture is stirred for 10 hours at 130 C. The obtained suspension is cooled and filtered, the residue washed out with acetone and the filtrate evaporated. The remaining oil, taken up in 300 ml ethyl ether, is shaken 3x each time using 150 ml 0.5 N NaOH and subsequently with 200 ml brine.The etheric phase is dried over MgS04 and concentrated by evapo ration. The title compound is obtained as an oil following chromatographic purification on silica gel.le. 7 Propoxy 2 naphthalin ethanol 20 g of the product of step ld. dissolved in 100 ml tetrahydrofuran are added over 15 minutes to 6.2 g lithium aluminium hydride in 400 ml tetrahydrofuran. The temperature rises to 45 C. The reaction mixture is allowed to stand until it returns to room temperature and is then stirred for 1 hr 50 ml H20 are then added drop wise with caution. A light yellow suspension forms which is then stirred for 30 mins. The obtained suspension is filtered over Hyflo, the residue boiled out with 2 portions of tetrahydrofuran and the combined tetrahydrofuran phases are concentrated by evaporation. The title compound crystallises out on addition of hexane and is re crystallised from ethyl ether hexane m.p. 97 99ec. if. 7 Propoxy 2 naphthalinethyl methanesulfonate 10 ml methanesulfonyl chloride are added drop wise over 15 mins.to 10 g of the product of step le. in 100 ml pyridine pre cooled to O C. The obtained suspension is stirred for 2 hrs. at O C and poured onto 100 ml H20 whereupon the title compound crystallises out. The crystalls are filtered off and dried m.p. 93 95 C. EXAMPLES 2 to 22The following compounds of formula Ia and Ib are prepared analogously to example 1 above. EMI12.1 EMI12.2 tb EXAMPLE SEP R1 SEP R2O SEP R3 SEP n SEP m.p. SEP C tb SEP 2 SEP H SEP 7 SEP nC3H2O SEP H SEP 2 SEP 131 133 tb SEP 3 SEP CH3 SEP 7 SEP nC6H130 SEP H SEP 2 SEP 170 SEP SEP 172 tb SEP 4 SEP H SEP 7 SEP nC6H130 SEP SEP H SEP 2 SEP 159 SEP SEP 160 tb SEP 5 SEP CH3 SEP 7 SEP CH3O SEP 3 Br SEP 3 SEP 106 SEP SEP 109 tb SEP 6 SEP CH3 SEP 7 SEP CH3O SEP H SEP 3 SEP 121 SEP SEP 124 tb SEP 7 SEP CH3 SEP 7 SEP C2H5O SEP H SEP 2 SEP 115 SEP SEP 117 tb SEP 8 SEP CH3 SEP 7 SEP nC4HgO SEP H SEP 2 SEP SEP 103 SEP SEP 105 tb SEP g SEP H SEP 7 SEP nC3H7O SEP H SEP 2 SEP 114 115 tb SEP 10 SEP iC4H9 SEP 7 SEP nC3H7O SEP H SEP 2 SEP 82 83 tb EMI13.1 tb EXAMPLE SEP R1 SEP SEP R2O SEP SEP R3 SEP SEP n SEP SEP m.p. SEP C tb SEP 11 SEP CH3 SEP 6 SEP nC5HiiO SEP H SEP 2 SEP 110 SEP SEP 112 tb SEP 12 SEP C2H5 SEP 6 SEP nC3H70 SEP H SEP 2 SEP 93 SEP SEP 95 tb SEP 13 SEP CH3 SEP 6 SEP nC3H70 SEP H SEP 2 SEP 115 SEP SEP 117 tb SEP 14 SEP CH3 SEP 8 SEP nC4H9O SEP H SEP 2 SEP 109 SEP SEP 111 tb SEP 15 SEP C2Hs SEP 8 SEP nC4H9O SEP H SEP 2 SEP 83 SEP SEP 85 tb SEP 16 SEP CH3 SEP 8 SEP nC3H70 SEP H SEP 2 SEP 93 SEP SEP 95 tb M.P. for compounds 3 and 4 is for the HC1 salt.M.P. all other compounds is for the free base.EMI13.2 EMI14.1 tb EXAMPLE SEP R1 SEP R20 SEP m.p. SEP C SEP tb SEP 17 SEP CH3 SEP 6 SEP nC3H70 SEP 98 SEP SEP 100 tb SEP 18 SEP CH3 SEP 6 SEP nC4HgO SEP 79 SEP SEP 81 tb SEP 19 SEP CH3 SEP 8 SEP nC3H70 SEP SEP 85 SEP SEP 87 tb SEP 20 SEP nC3H7 SEP 8 SEP nC3H70 SEP SEP 57 SEP SEP 59 tb SEP 21 SEP H SEP 7 SEP nC3H70 SEP SEP 56 SEP SEP 59 tb SEP 22 SEP CH3 SEP 7 SEP nC3H70 SEP SEP 103 SEP 104 tb M.P. all compounds 17 through 22 is for the free base.EXAMPLE 23 Synthesis of N hydroxy N methyl 7 propoxy 2 naphthalin methanamine Formula I A CH 2 position R1 CH3, RvO 2 7 nC3H70 , R3 H . 2.1 g 7 propoxy 2 naphthalinmethylbromide, 3.1 g N methylhydroxylamine hydrochloride and 3 ml triethylamine in 30 ml ethanol are heated for 16 hours under reflux in an argon atmosphere. The obtained reaction mixture is evaporated the residue taken up in ethyl ether and the combined ether phases concentrated whereupon the title compound crystallises out m.p. 105 108 C. The starting material for the above process is obtained as follows 23a 7 Propoxy 2 naphthalinmethylbromide Formula II R20 7 nCSH70 Rq H A CH2 Z Br .22 g 7 methyl 2 propoxy naphthalin, 20 g freshly recrystallisedN bromosuccinimide, 1.5 g potassium carbonate and 0.5 g dibenzoylperoxide in 750 ml CCl4 are stirred for 16 hours under reflux with UV irradiation under an atmosphere of argon. The obtained brown suspension is filtered, the filtrate evaporated and purified chromatographically on silica gel using hexane ehtyl ether 95 5 as eluant m.p. 85 88 C.EXAMPLE 24The compound N hydroxy N methyl 7 pentoxy 2 naphthalinmethanamine Formula A CH2 2 position R1 CH3 R20 7 nC5HiiO R3 H is prepared analogously to example 23 m.p. 68 71 C.EXAMPLE 25The compound N hydroxy N methyl 7 butoxy 2 naphthalinmethanamine Formula A CH2 2 position R1 CH3 R20 7 nC4HgO R3 H is prepared analogously to example 23 m.p. 90 91 C. EXAMPLE 26Synthesis of N hydroxy N methyl 2 7 methoxy 2 naphthal inyl propylamine Formula I A N CH CH3 CH3 N f2 positSon R1 CH3 R2O 7 CH3O R3 H The title compound is prepared analogously to example 1 starting from 2 7 methoxy naphth 2 yl n propyl methanesulfonate m.p.for the title compound 91 92 C.The starting material for the above process is obtained as follows 26a 2 3,4 Dihydro 7 methoxy 2 naphthaTinyl propionic acid methyl esterThe title compound is obtained analogously to example la starting from 7 methoxy 2 tetralone and 2 phosphonopropionic acid methyl ester.26b 2 7 Methoxy 2 naphthalinyl propionic acid methyl ester 21 g of the product of example 26a are stirred for 16 hours at 195 0 with 1g 10 X Pd charcoal in 50 ml decahydronaphthalin. The obtained reaction mixture is filtered hot over Hyflo and the solvent evaporated off to yield the title compound. This reacted further without purification.26c 2 7 Methoxy 2 naphthalinyl propanol 3.5 g of the product of example 26b in 30 ml tetrahydrofuran are added with protective gassing to a suspension of 1.1 g lithiumaluminium hydride in 90 ml tetrahydrofuran and the obtained reaction mixture stirred for 2.5 hours at room temperature. 10 mlH20 are added carefully and the mixture stirred for a further 30 minutes and then filtered. The residue is boiled out 3x employing 100 ml tetrahydrofuran each time and the combined organic phases are evaporated. The product is obtained initially as a pale brown oil which later begins to crystallise. M.P. for the title compound on re crystallisation from ethyl ether hexane 84 86eC. 26d 2 7 Methoxy 2 naphthyl propyl methanesulfonate 2.2 g of the product of example 26c are dissolved in 22 ml pyridine and cooled to OC. 2.2 ml methane sulfonyl chloride are added drop wise over 5 mins. to yield a dark brown suspension which is then poured into 300 ml H20. Extraction is effected using diethyl ether and the ether solution is washed with 100 ml 1N HCl, 1 ml H20, dried over Mg2S04, filtered and evaporated. M.P. for the title compound 90 93 C. EXAMPLE 27The compound N hydroxy N methyl 2 7 propoxy 2 naphthalinyl propylamine Formula I A N CH CH3 CH2 N 2 position R1 CH3 R20 7 nC3H70 R3 H is prepared analogously to example 26 m.p. 92 94eC. EXAMPLE 28Sythesis of N hydroxy N methyl 3 7 methoxy 2 naphthalinyl propyl 2 amine Formula I A N CH2 CH CH3 N 2 posi tion Ri CH R 0 7 CH30 R3 H . The title compound is prepared analogously to example 1 starting from 3 7 methoxy 2 naphthalinyl propyl 2 methanesulfonate m.p. for the title compound 115 118µC HCl salt .The starting material for the above process is prepared as follows 28a 3 7 Methoxy 2 naphthal inyl 2 nitro 2 propene 17 g 7 methoxy 2 naphthalinaldehyde and 7.9 g ammonium acetate in 100 ml nitroethane are heated under reflux for 4 hours. The reaction mixture is cooled to room temperature, diluted with 200 mlCH2Cl2, washed 2x with H20, dried over MgS04, filtered and evaporated. The remaining brown oil is purified chromatographically using silica gel and hexane ethyl ether 4 1 as eluant. M.P.for the title compound 87 900C. 28b 7 Methoxy 2 naphthal inmethyl methyl ketone 6 g of the product of example 28b in 250 ml ethanol are warmed to 60eC. 4.2 g raney nickel and 24.7 g sodium hypophosphite in 100 ml H20 and 124 ml 1N HCl are added portion wise over 10 mins. The obtained reaction mixture is stirred for 90 mins. at 600C. The obtained solution, which has a pH of ca. 3, is cooled to room temperature, filtered over Hyflo and washed well with ethanol.The ethanol is removed by evaporation, the residue diluted with 500 ml H20, filtered and dried to yield the title compound. M.P. 87 890C. 28c 3 7 Methoxy 2 naphthalinyl 2 propanol 0.5 g sodium borohydride in 20 ml H20 and a catalytic amount ofNaOH are added over 10 mins. to 5 g of the product of example 28b in 200 ml methanol. After stirring for 30 mins. at room temperature, 3 ml 20 H2S04 are added thus bringing the pH to 3. The reaction mixture is poured onto water and extracted 4x with methylene chloride. The collected organic extracts are dried overMg2S04, filtered and evaporated to yield the title compound.M.P. 48 52 C. 28d 3 7 Methoxy 2 naphthalinyl propyl 2 methanesulfonate The title compound is obtained from the product of example 28c, proceeding analogously to example 26d. M.P. 98 100 C. EXAMPLE 29The compound N hydroxy N methyl 3 7 propoxy 2 naphthalinyl propyl 2 amine Formula I A N CH2 CH CH3 N R1 CH3 R20 7 nC3H70 R3 H is prepared analogously to example 28 m.p. 93 95 C.EXAMPLE 30 Synthesis of N acetoxy N methyl 7 propoxy 2 naphthalin ethanamine 10 g of the product of example 1 are added to 4.7 g triethylamine in 200 ml methylenechloride and the obtained solution cooled to O C. 3.45 g acetylchloride are added drop wise over 5 mins., the temperature allowed to rise to room temperature and the reaction mixture stirred for a further 1 hour. The obtained solution is duluted with 200 ml methylene chloride, washed ix with saturatedNaHC03 solution, dried over MgS04, filtered and evaporated to yield the title compound as a yellow oil RF silica gel, ethyl ether methylene chloride 1 1 0.58. The N hydroxy naphthalinalkanamines and esters of the invention as well as their pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts possess lipoxygenase inhibiting activity as can be shown in standard pharmacological tests for example in accordance with the following assay Human neutrophils are isolated from normal donor blood buffy coats by dextran sedimentation, hypotonic lysis of contaminating erythrocytes and several washes in saline. 3.5 x 107 cells ml inPBS are preincubated at 37 C in the presence of test substance or solvent control for 5 min. Calcium ionophore A23187 20 MM is then added and incubation continued for 2 mins. before addition of t1 14C arachidonic acid 0.11 mM and further incubation for 4 mins.The reaction is terminated by addition of 2 vol of methanol followed by centrifugation. The supernatant is acidified to pH 3. The products are extracted into dimethyl ether, and are then separated by thin layer chromatography using the organic phase of ethyl acetate 2,2,4 trimethyl pentane acetic acid water 110 50 20 100, v v as the solvent system. The radioactive spots are located by radio scanning and quantified by liquid scintillation counting. see Bougeat and Samuelsson, Proc. Nat. Acad.Sci. 76, 2148 2152, 1979 and Jakschik et al., Prostaglandins 20, 401 410, 1980 .Determined IC50 values concentration at which 50 inhibition is achieved compared with control for compounds of the invention in the above assay are of the order of from 3 x 10 6 to 3 x mol litre.The N hydroxy naphthalinalkanamines and esters of the invention and their pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts are accordingly indicated for use in the treatment of disorders in which products of the lipoxygenase pathway, for example leukotrienes such as leukotriene C play a direct or indirect pathophysiological role, for example for the treatment or prophylaxis of asthma e.g. as bronchospasmolytic agents , for the treatment of inflammation and, in particular, for the treatment of psoriasis.For the above usages the required dosage will of course vary depending on the particular compound employed, the mode of administration, the particular condition to be traated and the therapy desired. An indicated daily dosage for anti asthmatic anti inflammatory use is in the range of from about 10 to about 100 mg administered once or in divided doses 2 to 4 times a day in unit dosage form comprising e.g. from about 2.5 to about 50 mg of compound of the invention together with a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent or carrier therefor, or in sustained release form. For use in the treatment of psoriasis, the N hydroxy naphthalinalkanamines and esters of the invention and their pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts will suitably be applied topically, e.g. to areas of the skin exhibiting psoriatic lesion. For the purposes of topical application they will preferably be put up in a form suitable or adapted for topical application, e.g. in the form of an ointment, gel, cream, lotion or the like or as active agent in a compress, cataplasm, poultice or the like. Suitable compositions for topical application will comprise the active ingredient together with one or more carriers or diluents suitable for dermal application. Such compositions may also include e.g. thickening agents, preserving agents, stabilizing agents in particular citric acid , or agents to assist skin penetration as known in the art. The amount of active agent applied will of course depend again on the particular compound chosen as well as, in particular on the severity of the condition. However in general application in amounts of from about 0.01 to about 1.0 e.g. about 0.3 mg sq.cm., suitably applied at regular intervals e.g. 1, 2 or 3x daily is indicated, and forms for topical application may suitably comprise from about 0.25 to about 5 , e.g. about 1 by weight active ingredient. The following is an example for the preparation of a 1 composition suitable for topical application.Ingredient Quantity g Active agent, i.e. compound of formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof 1.0Polyethyleneglycol 300 64.25 Transcutog Diethyleneglycolmonoethylether 10.00Cetiol HE R c.f. Fiedler Lexikon der Hilfstoffe , 2nd Edition p. 228 1981 5.00Glycerol 5.00H20 2.00Citric acid O.75 Clucel LF 23 Hydroxypropylcellulose 12.00 100.00The components are compounded in conventional manner to provide a gel suitable for application in an amount of ca. 30 mg ca. 0.3 mg active ingredient sq.cm.. As will be appreciated where acid addition salts of the subject compounds are to be applied topically these will be salts which are suitable for dermal application for example the hydrochloride and the term pharmaceutically acceptable in this context is to be interpreted accordingly.In accordance with the foregoing the present invention also provides i An N hydroxy 5 ,6 ,7 or 8 alkoxy 1 or 2 naphthalinalkanamine, e.g. a compound of formula I, or physiologically hydrolysable and acceptable ester thereof, in free base or acid addition.salt form, for use as a pharmaceutical, i.e. for use in therapy, e.g. for use as a lipoxygenase inhibitor, for example for use in the prophylaxis or treatment of asthma, inflammation or psoriasis. ii A method for the treatment or prophylaxis of asthma, inflammation or psoriasis in a subject in need of such treatment, which method comprises administering to said subject an effective amount of an N hydroxy 5 ,6 ,7 or 8 al koxy 1 or 2 naphthalinalkanamine, e.g. a compound of formula I, or physiologicallyhydrolysable and acceptable ester thereof, in free base or acid addition salt form as well as iii A pharmaceutical composition comprising an N hydroxy 5 ,6 , 7 or 8 alkoxy l or 2 naphthalinalkanamine, e.g. a compound of formula I, or physiologically hydrolysable and acceptable ester thereof, in free base or acid addition salt form, together with pharmaceutically acceptable diluent or carrier therefor.