# Polymerizable UV stabilizers from isocyanatoalkyl esters of unsaturated carboxylic acids.

## Abstract
An addition polymerizable UV stabilizer is prepared by reacting an isocyanatoalkyl ester of an addition polymeriz able carboxylic acid such as 2 isocyanatoethyl methacry late with an UV stabilization functionality bearing an active hydrogen moiety which is reactive with the isocyanate such as 2 hydroxy 4 2 hydroxyethoxy benzophenone .

## Claims
SWEAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A polymerizable UV stabilizer comprising a compound of the formula EMI12.1 in which R is II or an organic radical R1 is H or CH3 Rê is a C1 C20 organic radical n is 1 or 0 R, R1, R2 and n are all such that the C C double bond is addition polymerizable, R3 is a Cl C12 organic radical, X is a urethane type linkage with the isocyanate residue proximal to R3 and Y is a IN stabilization functionality. 2. The IN stabilizer o f Claim 1 wherein R is H. 3. The W stabilizer of Claim 1 wherein n is 0. 4. The IN stabilizer of Claim 1 wherein R is B n is 0 and R3 is a C1 C5 organic chain. 5. The W stabilizer of Claim 1 wherein R is B R1 is CH3 n is 0 and R3 is a C2 alkyl chain. 6. The W stabilizer of Claim 1 wherein X is the reaction product of an isocyanate and a hydroxyl group. 7. The W stabilizer of Claim 1 wherein Y is a 2 hydroxybenzophenone moiety. 8 A polymeric composition comprising an addition polymerized organic compound and the IN stabianyone of Claims 1 to lizer of wherein the UV stabilizer has been copolymerized with the organic compound. 9. A polymeric composition comprising an addition polymerized organic compound and the UV stabilizer of wherein the UV stabilizer has been grafted onto the polymer. 10. The composition of Claim 8 or 9 wherein said composition is a latex. 11. A polymerizable UV stabilizer comprising an ester of an ethylenically unsaturated. carboxylic acid, the alcohol residae of which includes a urethanetype linkage proximal to the acyl group and a IN stabilizer functionality distal to the acyl group. 12. The W stabilizer of Claim 11 wherein the IN stabilizer comprises the reaction product of an isocyanatoalkyl ester of an unsaturated carboxylic acid with a IN stabilizer functionality bearing an active hydrogen moiety. 13. The W stabilizer of Claim 12 wherein the active hydrogen moiety is a hydroxyl moiety. 14. The IN stabilizer of Claim 13 wherein the m7 stabilizer comprises the reaction product of 2 isocyanatoethyl methacrylate and 2 hydroxy 4 2 hydroxyethoxy benzophenone. 15. The IN, stabilizer of Claim 12 wherein the IN stabilization functionality is a 2 hydroxybenzo phenone, a 2 2 hydroxyphenyl benzotriazole, a salicylate, an aryl substituted acrylate or a p aminobenzoate. 16. A method of synthesizing a polymerizable IN stabilizer comprising reacting an isocyanatoalkyl ester of an ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid with a UV stabilizer functionality bearing an active hydrogen moiety.

## Description
POLYNERIZABLE W STABILIZERS FROM ISOCYANATOALKYL ESTERS OF UNSATURATED CARBOXYLIC ACIDS This invention relates to ultra violet UV light stabilizers which are addition polymerizable and to polymers containing such stabilizers. The demands made upon polymeric materials in industrial, commercial and consumer fields are continually increasing. To improve polymers, the use of UV stabilizers has been extremely important. UV radiation accelerates the physical and chemical deterioration of polymeric substrates and causes the fading of colors, the yellowing of cellulosics, the photo oxidation of polyolefins, the dehydrochlorination of poly vinylchloride , the imbrittlement of coatings, etc. UV stabilizers extend the useful life of irradiated polymers by absorbing W radiation and or absorbing the energy by intermolecular energy transfer and harmlessly dissipating the energy. Three main factors affect W stabilizer performance. The first is the intrinsic activity of the UV stabilization functional group. This may be evaluated by a number of conventional methods. The second factor is the compatibility or solubility of the stabilizer in the polymer system. This second factor is important in situations wherein a polymer may initially have a Uv stabilizer dispersed throughout the system, however, upon aging the IN stabilizer may migrate from one polymer phase to another polymer phase or to the surface of the polymer. A third factor is the leaching or volatility of the, W stabilizer. This third factor, the leaching of the stzbilizer, is very important in many situations.For many applications the IN stabilizer must be capable of withstanding multiple detergent washings and or dry cleanings. In food or clothing related applications, the IN stabilizer must not be released so as to be absorbed by the bodyIn extraterrestial environments the UV stabilizers must have extremely low vapor pressures to remain in the polymer even at very high temperatures and very low pressures. A number of approaches have been tried to solve the problem of the volatilization of IN stabilizers in polymeric materials. One such approach has been to chemically combine the W stabilizer with the, polymeric material sought to be protected. These attempts, however, have not been wholly satisfactory.The chemically combined stabilizers disclosed in the literature are generally expensive to manufacture in that they require synthesis routes which are energy intensive and time consuming. In addition, the products produced by these methods are often inadequate in their ability to function as a W stabilizer. Further, the synthesis routes described in the literature generally produce large amounts of impurities which interfere with the IN stabilizer properties or other aspects of the polymer system in which they are employed. These routes also characteristically have low product yields Bailey, et al., Polymeric Ultraviolet Absorbers,J. Macromol. Sci. Rev. Macromol. Chem, C14 2 , pp. 267 293 1976 , and Kline, U.S. Patent No. 3,953,402 1976 , discuss polymerizable UV absorbers made through an esterification reaction. These syntheses.are energy intensive, and the products require considerable processing to obtain a relatively pure compound. Coleman, U.S. Patent No. 3,391,110 1968 , discloses a condensation polymer which has both a IN stabilizer moiety and a urethane linkage. There is no suggestion, however, of an addition polymerizable IN absorber. Schroeter, et al., U.S. Patent No. 4,179,548 1979 , teaches aIN stabilizer which is useful in an addition polymer, but the IN stabilizer itself is not addition polymerizable. Further, although Schroeter, et al. teach the reaction of a W stabilizer with an isocyanate to form an urethane linkage, they do it for the purpose of temporarily disabling the IN stabilizer so that an IN radiation curing system may be used. Accordingly, it would be desirable to have a polymerizable IN stabilizer which has high IN stabili zation activity, is energy efficient to manufacture, may be quickly and easily manufactured, is relatively free of harmful impurities, and may be produced in high yield. In one aspect, the invention is a polymerizable IN stabilizer comprising a compound of the formula EMI4.1 in which R is E or an organic radical, Rl is B or CH3, R2 is a C1 C20 organic radical, n is 1 or 0, R, R1, R2 and n are all such that the C C double bond is polymersizable, R3 is a C1 C12 organic radical, X is a urethanetype linkage with the isocyanate residue proximal toR3, and Y is a IN stabilization functionality. In another aspect, the invention is a methdd of making such a W stabilizer. In yet another aspect the invention is a polymer having such a IN stabilizer incorporated therein. Surprisingly, the IN stabilizers of the invention have high IN stabilization activity, are energy efficient to manufacture, may be quickly and easily manufactured, are relatively free of impurities, and may be readily addition polymerized. The polymerizable UV stabilizers of the present invention may be generally described as esters of ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acids, the alcohol residues of which contain a urethane type linkage proximal to the acyl group of the ester and a IN stabilization functionality distal to the acyl group. These esters may be the esters of any addition polymerizable carboxylic acid. While typically not prepared directly from carboxylic acids, these esters correspond to esters of, for instance, acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, and cis and trans 2 butenoic acid.While not preferred, addition polymerizable dicarboxylicacids such as cis and trans 2 butendioic acids maleic and fumaric acids may be used. The polymerizable W stabilizers of the present invention may also be described by the formula EMI5.1 in which R is H or an organic group R1 is H or CH3 R2 is a C1 C20 organic group n is 0 or 1 R, R1, R2 and n are all such that the C C double bond is addition polymerizable R3 is a Cl C12 organic group X is a urethane type linkage with the isocyanate residue proximal to R3 and Y is a UV stabilization functionality. In preferred embodiments, R is H n is 0 and R3 is aC1 C5 organic chain. In the practice of the instant invention, the preferred method for making the polymerizable IN stabilizers involves the reaction of an isocyanatoalkyl ester of an ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid with a IN stabilization functionality having an active hydrogen moiety. Preferred isocyanatoalkyl esters include 2 isocyanatoethyl acrylate and 2 isocyanatoethyl methacrylate lEM . Suitable means for preparing these isocyanate precursors are taught, for instance, in U.S.Patent Nos. 4,260,811 4,278,809 4,310,688 4,338,162 British Patent No. 1,252,099 and Canadian PatentNo. 874,457. The IN stabilization functionality of the instant invention may be any W stabilization functionality which is not excessively reactive with isocyanate moieties under the conditions employed for preparation of the polymerizable stabilizer. That is to say, one cannot use a IN stabilizer wherein the stabilization moiety will be rendered substantially inactive by reaction with the isocyanate. The most important. commercial IN stabilizers may be grouped into five categories of compounds which are believed to function by directly absorbing IN radiation. They are the 2 hydroxybenzophenones, the 2 2 hydroxyphenyl benzotriazoles, the salicylates, the aryl substituted acrylates, and the p aminobenzoates.In addition to these absorbers, an important class of nonabsorbing stabilizers are the nickel chelates, complexes and salts of aromatic systems. These are believed to provide protection by a mechanism which involves a.direct transfer of the electronic energy from the excited state of the polymer molecule to the stabilizer molecules. Another group of nonabsorbing compounds which become light stabilizers have the facility to photochemically rearrange or be converted to W absorbing materials upon exposure to W radiation.An example is the conversion of nonabsorDing m hydroxy phenylbenzoate to the absorbing 2, 4 dihydroxybenzo phenone. A large number of specific W stabilizers is listed in the Encyclopedia of Chemical Technology, Vol. 21, page 115 2d edition, 1970 . Although the IN stabilization functionalities useful in the invention are commercially available, they often do not have other functionalities which are suitable for reaction with the isocyanatoalkyl ester, and must be suitably modified. The W stabilizer must be modified such that it bears a pendant group which will react with an isocyanate moiety to produce a furethane type linkage. By the term urethane type linkage is meant to include not only a true urethane linkageEMI7.1 wherein an isocyanate is reacted with an organic hydroxyl group, but Åalso to include the reaction of an isocyanate with any active hydrogen moiety. An active hydrogen moiety is generally any moiety which will react with an isocyanate group.One means of predicting this tendency is the Zerewitinoff test described by Roller in Journal of the American Chemical Societs, Vol. 49, page 3181 1927 . Specific examples of suitable active hydrogen compounds include amines, alcohols, thiols, carboxylic acids and carboxamides. Amines and alcohols are the preferred, with alcohols being most preferred. Compounds which have an active hydrogen moiety suitable for reaction with the isocyanate are known in the art. Examples of suitable 2 2 hydroxy phenyl benzotriazole IN stabilizers include 2 2 hydroxy 5 ethylamino phenyl benzotriazole whose ethylamino group is reactive with isocyanates compound disclosed in Japanese Patent No. 72 29,199 and 2 2 hydroxy 5 aminophenyl benzotriazole whose amino group is reactive with isocyanates compound disclosed in Japanese PatentNo. 71 26,860 . Suitable salicylate stabilizers include ethylene glycol monosalicylate whose hydroxyethyl group is reactive with isocyanates compound disclosed inTronnier, Acta Fac. Med. Univer.Brun., 1972, No. 40 Pt. 1 , 211 19 and 4 hydroxy phenyl salicylate whose 4 hydroxy group is reactive with isocyanates compound disclosed in Japanese Patent No. 71 26,860 . A variety of suitable hydroxyl substituted aryl acrylate IN stabilizers whose hydroxyl groups are reactive with isocyanates are also known compounds disclosed inNetherlands Patent Application No. 293,502 . The reactions necessary to provide the W stabilization functionality with a suitable active hydrogen moiety are varied, depending upon the specific type of W stabilization functionality, and the other moieties available for reaction. While these steps are not shown in the literature as a group, for this speci fic use, the individual reactions are well known. For instance, one may react 2,4 dihydroxybenzophenone with 2 bromoethanol ethylene bromohydrin to obtain 2 hydroxy 4 2 hydroxyethoxy benzophenone, as taught by U.S.Patent No. 3,086,988. In a similar manner, one may use 2 chloroethanolAethylene chlorohydrin as the reactant, as taught. by V.5 . Patent No. 3,391,110. While it would be possible to use 2,4 dihydroxybenzophenone directly, the 4 2 hydroxyethoxy derivative, whose hydroxyethoxy group is reactive with isocyanates, will produce a more stable product when reacted with an isocyanate. The W stabilization functionality which has an active hydrogen moiety or which has been provided with an active hydrogen moiety may be reacted with the isocyanate moiety of the isocyanatoalk ester under conditions conventional for urethane formation reactions.Preferably, the reaction takes place at room temperature with a small amount of a conventional urethane catalyst.The reaction takes place in a relatively short time, yielding a pure product at near 100 percent conversion.Suitable reaction conditions are well known to those skilled in the art and are taught, for instance, inU.S. Patent No. 4,233,425. The polymerizable W stabilizers may be used as other us stabilizers by simply blending it with the material it protects. However, a particular advantage of the m7 stabilizers of the invention is their ability to become bound to the polymer in which they are used, either by being copolymerized with the monomers of the polymer or by being grafted onto the polymer after the polymer has been prepared. The latter approach is useful in that it allows the polymer to be premanufactured and provided with IN stabilizers only when the need arises. When the IN stabilizer is copolymerized, it can be added like any other monomer and becomes part of the polymer. When it is grafted onto the polymer, it is added to the polymer with, a sufficient amount of an initiator so that grafting occurs. In grafting, it is possible to add a small amount of another addition polymerizable monomer when the IN stabilizer is added.Grafting is taught, for example, in U.S. PatentNo. 4,155,955. One possible use of the stabilizers of the invention is to homopolymerize them or to polymerize them with a minor portion of another compound, in order to build their molecular weight and reduce their volatility. This may be desirable, for instance, when the need arises to add a relatively nonextractable and nonvolatile W stabilizer to an already manufactured polymer. In some polymer systems one portion of the system may be more susceptible to W degradation than others. For instance, a blended or encapsulated polymer system made with butadiene and styrene will generally show much more IN degradation in the butadiene phase. However, by polymerizing the W stabilizer with the butadiene portion, the stabilizer will be in the phase where it is needed and will not be able to migrate to the other phase. Further details of the invention will be apparent from the following examples which are provided to illustrate the invention and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention. In the examples, all parts and percentages are by weight, unless otherwise specified.Example 1 A solution of 2.00 g 7.75 millimoles of 2 hydroxy 4 2 hydroxyethoxy benzophenone and 20 ml of methylene chloride is chilled in an ice bath. To this 2 mg Ionole inhibitor, 1.20 g 7.74 millimoles of 2 isocyanatoethyl me thacrylate and 1 drop of dibutyltin diacetate are added. The solution is stirred for 48 hours as the ice bath is allowed to melt. The solvent is removed under reduced pressure to yield an oil which crystallizes upon stranding. The crystals have a weight of 3.2 g 100 percent of theoretical and a melting point of 45 48 C. Example 2 A sample of 200 g of a 40 percent solids latex composition 58.2 percent styrene, 40.0 percent butadiene, 1.8 percent itaconic acid is mixed with a solution of 0.8 g 1.937 millimoles of the copolymeriz able IN stabilizer from Example 1 in 1.0 ml styrene and 0.2 ml methanol. Following this a solution of 60 mg sodium persulfate and 0.5 ml of water is added and the latex is heated to 750C under a nitrogen atmosphere. The latex is held at 750C for 4 hours and allowed to cool to room temperature. The latex is coated onto paper strips which are dried briefly in an oven and then exposed in a Fadeometer IN chamber for 100 hours.Comparative Example 1 A latex sample identical to that used inExample 2 is blended with 0.55 percent 2,4 dihydroxybenzophenone as a light stabilizer. The quantity of stabilizer gives the latex the same molar concentration of stabilizer as the latex of Example 2. This sample is similarly coated onto paper, briefly dried, and exposed to 100 hours in a Fadeometer W cabinet. A comparison of the IN exposed samples fromExample 2 and Comparative Example 1 show less yellowing in the sample from Example 2 than the sample fromComparative Example 1.