# Nonsulfur chemimechanical pulping process.

## Abstract
A nonsulfur chemimechanical pulping process for pro ducing pulp from woody materials is disclosed. The process is particularly suited for producing corrugating medium pulp from hardwood chips although the process can be adapted to production of other types of pulp and can use other types of woody materials. The process comprises impregnation and dilution of the chips in a dilute aqueous pulping solution of a lower alkanolamine catalyzed with ammonium hydrox ide. The preferred akanolamine is monoethanolamine pre sent in a weight ratio to ammonium hydroxide of about 1 part to 1 part or less to 1 part to 3 parts or more. The pulping solution may be repeatedly reused and the process of this invention does not produce environmentally objectionable by products.

## Claims
What is claimed is 1. A process for pulping woody materials comprising providing a pulping solution containing a dilute mixture of a lower alkanolamine and ammonium hydroxide in water providing a heated vessel admitting a predetermined quantity of chips and solution to said vessel impregnating said chips in said solution and digesting said chips under conditions of temperature and pressure effective to initiate a lignin depolymerization reaction in said chips for a predetermined period of time refining said chips to produce said pulp and separating the used solution from the pulp. 2. The process of claim 1 wherein said lower alkanolamine is monoethanolamine. 3. The process of claim 2 wherein said monoethanolamine is present in a ratio to ammonium hydroxide of 1 part to about 3, by weight. 4. The process of claim 3 wherein the step of digesting further comprises lowering the level of solution in said vessel below the chips vaporizing said solution, in part, and circulating said solution vapor above, below and on all sides of said chips to digest said chips under a vapor dome. 5. The process of claim 1 wherein said chips are hardwood chips and said pulp produced is corrugating medium pulp produced in a yield of about 85 95 . 6. The process of claim 1 wherein said lignin depolymerization reaction is maintained under a temperature of about 2850 F. and a pressure of at least about 50 psi for at least about15 minutes. 7. A process for producing corrugating medium pulp from hardwood chips comprising providing a pulping solution containing a dilute aqueous mixture of a lower alkanolamine and ammonium hydroxide providing a heated vessel admitting a predetermined quantity of said chips to said vessel heating said solution subsequently digesting said chips in said vessel under conditions ef temperature and pressure effective to initiate a lignin depolymerization reaction in said chips for a predetermined period of time refining said chips to produce said pulp and separating the used solution from the pulp for chemical reactant recovery. 8. The process of claim 7 wherein said lower alkanolamine is monoethanolamine. 9. The process of claim 8 wherein said monoethanolamine is present in a ratio to ammonium hydroxide of 1 to about 3 parts by weight. 10. The process of claim 9 wherein said pulping solution comprises about 10 12 gallons monoethanolamine to 36 40 gallons harmonium hydroxide to about 1,000 gallons water. 11. The process of claim 10 wherein said solution and chips are present in a ratio of about 600 gallons to 2,000 3,000 pounds chips. 12. The process of claim 11 wherein the step of digestion further comprises lowering the level of solution in said vessel below the chips vaporizing said solution at least in part and circulating said solution vapor above, below and on all sides of said chips to digest said chips under a vapor dome. 13. A continuous process for producing corrugating medium pulp from hardwood chips comprising providing a pulping solution of a dilute aqueous mixture of 1 part of a lower alkanolamine and less than 3 parts ammonium hydroxide providing a heated vessel admitting a predetermined quantity of chips to said vessel heating said solution subsequently digesting said chips in said vessel under conditions of temperature and pressure effective to initiate alignin depolymerization reaction in said chips for a predetermined period of time refining said chips to produce said pulp and separating the used solution from the pulp for chemical reactant recovery. 14. The process of claim 13, wherein the lower alkanolamine is monoethanolamine. 15. The process of claim 13, wherein said ammonium hydroxide is present in a weight ratio to the lower alkanolamine of about at least 1 1. 16. The process of claim 13, wherein the step of digesting said chips further comprises maintaining a weight ratio of about 4 1 of said pulping solution to said chips during said digestion step. 17. The method of claim 13 wherein said chips are maintained in said digestion vessel for a predetermined period of time of about 15 minutes.

## Description
NONSULFUR CHEMI MECHANICAL PULPING PROCESS This application is a continuation in part of applicationSerial No. 494,703, filed May 16, 1983, which application was a continuation in part of application Serial No. 303,944, filedSeptember 21, 1981, now U.S. Patent No. 4,397,712, which application was a continuation in part of patent applicationSerial No. 237,723, filed February 24, 1981, which was a continuation of U.S. patent application Serial No. 083,784, filedOctober 11, 1979, now U.S. Patent No. 4,259,147, which was a continuation of U.S. patent application Serial No. 842,262, filedOctober 4, 1977, now abandoned, which in turn was a continuation of Serial No. 551,259, filed February 20, 1975, now abandoned.This application is also related to U.S. patent applicationSerial No. 083,785, filed October 11, 1979, now U.S. Patent No.4,259,151, which was a continuation of U.S. patent applicationSerial No. 962,971, filed November 22, 1978, now abandoned, which in turn was a continuation in part of U.S. patent applicationSerial No. 959,620, filed November 13, 1978, now abandoned, which in turn was a continuation of U.S. patent application Serial No.821,468, filed August 3, 1977, now abandoned, which in turn was a division of U.S. patent application Serial No. 551,259, filedFebruary 20, 1975. Accordingly, the disclosures of said parentU.S. patents and patent applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. This invention relates to a nonsulfur chemimechanical pulping process NSCMP for producing pulp from woody materials.The process of this invention involves the discovery that a wide variety of woody constituents can be pulped in a dilute aqueous solution of a lower alkanolamine catalyzed by ammonia to produce a superior pulp in very high yields. This invention also relates to an improved wood pulping process for removing lignin constituents thereof without contamination so that the pulping solution can be repeatedly reused, the pulping chemicals distilled therefrom, and the residue used as a fuel. The residue may be burned in conventional equipment and does not produce noxious or poisonous gaseous by products normally associated with the by products of conventional pulping operations. In the above identified parent patent applications, processes and an apparatus for producing different grades of wood pulp from a variety of wood species were disclosed. The processes produced, in high yields, pulps from dissolving grade to container grade, or an intermediate fibrous material and readily reusable by products. Most importantly, however, the parent processes pulped wood without the use of toxic liquors or noxious gases generally associated with conventional pulp processes. The lignin constituents were removed from the pulp as uncontaminated by products suitable for commercial utilization. It was also disclosed that a lignin dissolving mild organic base could be used to produce a corrugating medium pulp of superior quality and that such base could be reused as a pulping solution subsequently. Specifically, a lignin dissolving, mild organic base such as monoethanol amine, in vapor phase cooking, was found to be capable of initiating a lignin depolymerization reaction in wood chips whereby the lignin constituents could be extracted. The chips could then be refined and used to produce corrugating medium pulp. The resulting by produkt solution when diluted could be reused many times as a pulping medium. It has now been discovered that in a batch, a batch continuous, or a continuous process, a pulping solution consisting of a dilute aqueous solution of the lignin dissolving solvent, a lower alkanolamine crystalized with ammonium hydroxide will producer superior results.Ammonium hydroxide may, in a batch or batch continuous process, be present as a major ingredient in the pulping solution, and in one preferred embodiment ammonium hydroxide is present in a weight ratio of about 3 1 to the lower alkanolamine. in continuous application, whereas the preferred weight ratio of the lignin dissolving solvent to the woody materials remains unchanged, and the liquid to chips ratio also remains essentially unchanged, optimum results are achieved with a lower concentration of ammonium hydroxide.Although the ratio of 3 1, ammonium hydroxide to amine, preferred in batch and batch continuous operation, will produce acceptable strength results in continuous operation, optimum results in continuous operation have been found to be produced by a weight ratio of ammonium hydroxide to amine of about 1 1, or less. The alkanolamine, monoethanolamine, has been disclosed as the pulping agent in U.S.Patent No.2,192,202 to Peterson et al. In that patent, however, the process disclosed required an unusually long cooking time of from 4 to 20 hours in a cooking liquid containing 70 100 of the alkanolamin. Clearly such a long cooking time is not commercially desirable, and the quantities of chemicals involved also rendered the process quite expensive. Recently the use of certain alcohols and amines as additive in alkaline pulping was also described. See Alkaline Pulping inAqueous Alcohols and Amines by Green et al, TAPPI, Vol.65,No.5, p. 133 May 1982 . In that article, tests of monoethanolamine, ethylene diamine, and methanol as solvent systems in soda sodium hydroxide pulping were described.The article, however, concluded that the pulps produced at low amine charges did not possess sufficient burst and tensile strengths. At high amine levels a lower alkali content was required, but this resulted in a deterioration of cellulose viscosity and pulp mechanical properties. It has been discovered, however, that a lower alkanolamine such as monoethanolamine in dilute aqueous solution with ammonium hydroxide will pulp a wide variety of different wood species in extremely high yields of 85 95 and will produce a superior hardwood pulp suitable for corrugating medium. The process also may be adapted to produce other pulps as will be obvious to those skilled in the art. Pulping time required is normally about 15 minutes, but may extend up to 1 hour depending upon the wood species and pulp produced. Accordingly, it is an object of this invention to produce a nonsulfur chemimechanical pulping process which will rapidly and efficiently pulp a wide variety of different wood species. It is another object of this invention to provide a nonsulfur process for producing a superior grade of corrugating medium pulp from hardwoods. It is yet another object of this invention to provide a pulping solution consisting of an alkanolamine and ammonium hydroxide in dilute aqueous solution which may be repeatedly reused to pulp green wood chips without noxious or harsh chemical by products. It is still another object of this invention to provide a continuous wood pulping process for producing superior grades of corrugating media from hardwoods such as aspen, alder and the like in a reusable pulping solution of a lower alkanolamine, ammonium hydroxide, and water which when spent may be efficiently and easily distilled to salvage chemical constituents thereof producing a concentrated lignin containing solution suitable for disposal as, for example, a fuel, without problems normally associated with by products from commercial pulp processes. These and other objects of this invention will become readily apparent with reference to the following description One of the important features of this invention is the discovery that a pulping media consisting of a lower alkanolamine catalyzed by ammonium hydroxide will produce a superior grade pulp in unexpectedly high yields from virtually any type of woody material. While the preferred embodiment of this invention utilizes monoethanolamine, diethanolamine, triethanolamine, and monoisopropanolamine, as well as other lower alkanolamines, are intended within the scope of this invention as lignin dipolymerizing agents. Furthermore, high concentrations of said depolymerizing agents are not needed for effective pulping when the pulping media is an aqueous solution thereof catalyzed by the presence of ammonium hydroxide. In the preferred embodiment of this invention, corrugating media pulp can be produced from preferably any type of hardwood in a pulping solution which can be repeatedly reused until the lower alkanolamine is virtually completely reacted. The spent pulping solution then may be concentrated by distillation to remove the chemical constituents for reuse, if desired, leaving a lignin containing residue which has a very high fuel value and virtually none of the pollution problems associated with the residues from standard pulping processes.In fact, the lignin containing residue may be used as, for example, a boiler fuel, in conventional equipment because it produces none of the noxious gaseous by products associated with the burning of residues from conventional pulping processes. The process of this invention may utilize an initial impregnation step with pulping solution followed by a vapor phase digestion step under a vapor dane. Preferably, honver, the pulping solution may be used in a combined impregnation and digestion step optionally preceded or followed by a steam treatment step. The treatment time, as will be subsequently described, will vary with the wood species used and the type of pulp produced. However, corrugating media pulp of superior quality has been produced in very high yields with a digestionimpregnation time of about 15 minutes. The process of this invention is suitable for batch digestion equipment, batch continuous digestion in multiple digesters, or continuous pulping in conventional equipment.However, it is preferred to utilize the digestion equipment as described in, for example, my U.S. Patent No. 4,259,151, and given commercial requirements multiple of such digesters in a batch continuous process. It will be obvious to those skilled in the art, however, that the type of digestion equipment is not intended to be limitative of the scope of this invention. As an example of a preferred embodiment of this invention, used to produce corrugating medium pulp, fresh, green hardwood chips of woods such as alder, aspen, oak, and the like are used.The pulping solution is prepared as a dilute aqueous solution of a lignin dissolving solvent, such as a lower alkanolamine, and ammonium hydroxide. Monoethanolamine, the preferred solvent, is mixed with ammonium hydroxide in proportions of about 10 12 gal. of monoethanolamine having a concentration of 8 lbs. per gal. to 36 40 gal. of ammonium hydroxide. The weight ratio then is about 100 lbs. of monethanolamine to about 300 Ibs. of commercial grade ammonium hydroxide. The mixture is then diluted with about 1,000 gal. of water. Accordingly, about 50 gal. of the mixture is diluted with about 1,000 gal. of water. Then about 600 gal. of the dilute mixture is combined with 2,000 libs. of green hardwood chips in a digester. Typically in utilizing the preferred digester superior graSew of corrugating medium pulp is produced in yields of up to about 95 by digesting the chips under a pressure of about 50 psi and a temperature of about 2850 F. for about 15 minutes. As will be subsequently explained the digestion procedure may vary as required. Typically, however, the chips are initially impregnated for a few minutes as the digester is heated to remove entrained air. Subsequently the liquid level in the digester is dropped below the chip mass and the chips are digested under the above conditions in vapor phase. Following digestion, the digester vessel is typically vented to a heat exchanger to recover the heat value of the digester gases and the liquid from the digester is routed to a blow tank containing an equal volume, i.e. 600 gal., of dilution water.The chips are then washed in another volume, i.e. 600 gal., of water and the wash water and dilute pulping solution are combined. The pulping solution is ultimately returned to storage tanks for reuse. The above quantities are sufficient for at least about four digestion procedures with hardwood chips. The pulping solution is recovered for reuse by preferably distillation. Condensate recovery returns the cooking chemicals back to the process, lowering chemical costs and process water requirements. The thick liquor residue resulting from distillation has been found to have a high BTU value, up to 10,000 BTU per oven dry pound. This residue is easily burned in a standard boiler utilizing either oil or wood and has been found to have a very low inorganic content. It therefore produces only small quantities of ash and no substantial chemical residues such as found in conventional kraft process residues and the residues of other commercial processes including the neutral sulfite process. After separation of the pulp from the pulping solution the pulp is subjected to standard screening and pulp washing processes to form a low consistency pulp solution. The low consistency pulp is then pumped to, for example, a continuous pulp presser to separate water and increase the consistency of the pulp to a desired consistency number. Typically pulp consistency of 12 40 is obtained. The high consistency pulp is then refined. Refining is used to reduce the Shive content of the pulp and to develop the desired paper properties. It is necessary in the production of corrugating medium pulps, and other pulps, that the pulp have a good tensile and wet web strength so that the wet pulp sheet will have sufficient strength to prevent tearing and consequent shutdown of the paper machine. Refining also serves to separate individual fibers more fully, make the fibers more flexible, and to give the fibers a fibrillated surface in order to enlarge the contact area between the fibers in the final paper and to increase pulp strength. The process of this invention produces corrugating medium pulps having desired properties such as high tensile strength, high wet web strength, high concora numbers, and similar requirements. Corrugating medium pulps produced by other processes do not yield the necessary tensile and wet web strength properties. It is therefore necessary with other processes to add expensive chemical pulps to the corrugating medium pulp to develop these properties. By eliminating the requirement for expensive chemical pulp additives the process of this invention then substantially decreased production costs. After high consistency refining, the corrugating medium pulp is pumped to a second pulp press, and the pulp is de watered to an oven dry content of about 30 . The pump at this point is sufficiently dry to handle as a solid and is in the form of nodular pulp pulp flakes . The flakes may be stored in fiber drums or other suitable containers depending upon market conditions, and stored in a warehouse. In another embodiment of the process of this invention utilizing two digester vessels such as those described in my U.S.Patent No.4,259,151, batch continuous operation is possible. Initially, 2,000 3,0001bs. of green chips, for example 50 oak 50 aspen, are loaded into the first digester with 600 gal. of the pulping solution of this invention.The digester is then heated to about 2120F. with steam, leaving the overflow vents open to remove entrained air. While the first digester is heating, the second digester is evacuated. The second digester is also cooled, as, for example, by circulating cooling water through the heating jacket or coils. This procedure allows the venting of digester No.1 into digester No.2 in a very short period of time. After digester No.1 reaches 2120F., the vents are closed and the digester heated to 75 100 psi for a period of about 15 30 minutes to cook the chips. In the preferred process, the cooking occurs in vapor phase under a vapor dome of the cooking solution. However, within the scope of this invention, the chips may be initially impregnated with the cooking solution, and cooked in a steam atmosphere. In an alternative this invention is intended to comprehend a continuous digestion process with, for example, a screw type conventional digester for continuous digestion in liquid phase. In each of these embodiments, however, the cooking solution utilizing dilute amine lignin dissolving solvent with an ammonia catalyst has been found to produce unexpectedly high yields in very short cooking times.While corrugating medium pulp is of primary interest herein, it must also be recognized that other types of pulps may be produced, and that the process of this invention is equally suitable for pulping hardwood chips, softwood chips, and mixed hardwood and softwood chips. At the end of the initial cook, digester No. 1 is vented into digester No. 2. Venting time as noted above is decreased by evacuation and cooling of digester No. 2 and should occur in about 10 15 minutes. When the pressure in digester No. 1 reaches about 10 psi, the spent cooking solution and cooked chips are blown into a blow tank. During the blow down of digester No. 1, digester No. 2 is filled with green chips and cooking solution and cooked as described above relative to digester No. 1.Digester No. 1, after blow down, is evacuated and cooled in preparation for venting from digester No. 2. The use of two digester vessels results in an efficient batch continuous operation utilizing residual heat in the digesters. Cooling water is returned to wash water storage tanks. After blow down, the chips and pulping solution are agitated in the blow tank with mixers to provide initial defibrating and easier pulping of the partially defibered chips. After the initial defibrating step, the defibrated chips and pulping solution are pumped to a first refiner. The first refiner serves as a further defibrator to ensure complete defibration of the cooked chips. The defibered pulp and the pulping solution are then pumped to a series of screens where the defibered pulp is separated from the pulping solution. The pulping solution is pumped to storage and processed in a spent liquor evaporator to recover condensate. The condensate is then utilized in the preparation of new cooking solution. After separation of the pulping solution the pulp is washed and is in the form of low consistency pulp solution. The low consistency pulp solution is then de watered to produce high consistency pulp which is then subjected to a refining step. The following tables illustrate test data from different cooking times. The chips cooked were 100 aspen or 50 aspen, 50 oak. The yields, as shown, generally were between 85 and 95 . Most importantly, the necessary pulp characteristics for a high grade corrugating media pulp were produced. TABLE 1 100 ASPENSample LDC 0803 100 AspenCooking Time 15 minutesCooking Sol. 1 part tEA. 3 NH OH Cooking Yield 93.11 4BEATING TIME, MINUTES 30 40 47 65Freeness C.S.,cc 489 382 290 101O.D. Sheet Wt. 2.62 2.67 2.54 2.62 grams meter sq 131.11 133.54 126.97 131.12Caliper Avg. SS,mm .357 .331 .267 .251 Std. dev..012 .004 .008 .003Apparent Density g cc .367 .403 .476 .522Bulk, cc g 2.72 2.48 2.10 1.92Burst Average, Kpa 145.45 189.13 230.68 312.67 Std. dev. 6.28 8.93 25.11 22.73Burst Index mN m sq g 1.11 1.42 1.82 2.38Tensile Avg. kg m 231.98 320.77 350.63 557.94 Std. dev. 30.42 29.36 21.78 95.90Breaking Length, Km 1.77 2.40 2.76 4.26Tensile Index, kN m kg 17.35 23.56 27.08 41.73Stretch Avg., 0.80 0.84 0.96 1.14 Std. dev. 0.00 0.94 0.05 1.25Tear Avg., 16 ply mN 602.73 646.68 612.14 502.2i Std. dev. 26.26 105.53 139.51 105.68Tear Index mH m sq g 4.60 4.84 4.82 3.83Double Folds Avg., 1.0 kg NA NA NA NA Std. dev.NA NA NA NAGurley Air Resistance sec 100 cc 20 oz. cyl. 9.2 23.53 53.47 409.70Brightness, Elrepho 26.47 27.50 27.00 25.87Concora ed. Test, N 159.39 243.16 286.15 143.61 Std. dev. 29.56 14.53 4.27 1.38Ring Crush, kN m 1.21 1.66 1.71 1.80 Std. dev. 0.04 0.07 0.10 0.11 TABLE 2 100 AspenLDC 0804 100 aspenCooking Time 30 minutesCooking Sol. 1 part MEA, 3 parts NH4OH Cooking Yield 93.428BEATING TIME, MINUTES 40 48 57 80Freeness C.S.,cc 495 412 312 112O.D. Sheet Wt. 2.06 2.05 2.07 2.06 grams meter sq 103.25 102.38 103.37 102.95Caliper Avg.SS,mm .299 .28 .294 .234 Std. dev. 0.14 .031 .007 .006Apparent Density g cc .345 .366 .352 .44Bulk, cc g 2.90 2.273 2.84 2.27Burst Average, Kpa 190.44 253.00 275.32 349.05 Std. dev. 9.46 10.26 11.71 36.25Burst Index mN m sq g 1.84 2.47 2.66 3.39Tensile Avg. kg m 387.96 511.95 579.94 738.59 Std. dev. 28.83 15.20 10.54 58.38Breaking Length, Km 3.76 5.00 5.61 7.17Tensile Index, kN m kg 36.85 49.04 55.02 70.36Stretch Avg., 0.90 1.18 0.94 1.20 Std. dev. 0.00 0.11 0.09 0.14Tear Avg., 16 ply mN 627.84 1067.33 774.34 549.36 Std. dev. 36.25 456.00 9.06 104.12Tear Index mfI m sq g 6.08 10.42 7.49 5.34Double Folds Avg., 1.0 kg NA NA NA NA Std. dev. NA NA NA NAGurley Air Resistance sec 100 cc 20 oz. cyl. 16.6 30.67 57.23 1220.67Brightness, Elrepho 21.17 20.87 21.80 21.13Concora Med. Test, N 198.68 244.64 273.55 398.10 Std. dev. 20.02 5.63 9.09 7.92Ring Crush, kN m 1.40 1.41 1.80 1.83 Std. dev. 0.21 0.30 0.19 0.15 TABLE 3 100 AspenCooking Time 45 minutesCooking Sol. 1 part MEA, 3 parts NH4OH Cooking Yield 94.7 BEATING TIME, MINUTES 35 40 48 63Freeness C.S.,cc 483 398 316 105O.D. Sheet Wt. 2.56 2.66 2.64 2.65 grams meter sq 127.96 133.23 132.06 132.35Caliper Avg. SS,mm .304 .291 .259 .247 Std. dev..014 .009 .007 .015Apparent Density g cc .421 .458 .51 .536Bulk, cc g 2.38 2.18 1.96 1.87Burst Average, Kpa 213.18 267.19 332.51 400.65 Std. dev. 11.92 9.98 30.40 19.05Burst Index mN m sq g 1.67 2.01 2.52 3.03Tensile Avg. kg m 409.29 482.62 644.10 875.91 Std. dev. 36.92 21.91 146.69 59.73Breaking Length, Km 3.20 3.62 4.88 6.62Tensile Index, kN m kg 31.37 35.52 47.83 64.90Stretch Avg., e 0.96 1.02 1.08 1.12 Std. dev. 0.05 0.04 0.17 0.11Tear Avg., 16 ply mN 740.85 706.32 815.41 651.38 Std. dev. 25.79 29.36 110.85 164.37Tear Index mH m sq g 5.79 5.30 6.17 4.92Double Folds Avg., 1.0 kg NA NA NA NA Std. dev. NA NA NA NAGurley Air Resistance sec 100 cc 20 oz. cyl. 17.90 29.50 73.43 669.70Brightness, Elrepho 19.13 19.13 19.07 18.47Concora Med.Test, N 229.07 264.66 318.7 446.28 Std. dev. 27.81 9.22 2.25 3.67Ring Crush, kN m 1.59 1.72 1.97 1.77 Std. dev. 0.13 0.08 0.10 0.05 TABLE 4 50 Aspen, 50 OakCooking Time 15 min.Cooking Sol. 1 part FEA, 3 parts NH40HCooking Yield 85.468 BEATING TIME, MINUTES 50 62 72 91Freeness C.S.,cc 504 408 308 117O.D. Sheet Wt. 2.54 2.58 2.67 2.76 grams meter sq 126.83 129.19 133.28 137.98Caliper Avg. SS,mm .408 .417 .354 .376 Std. dev..024 .021 .013 .007Apparent Density g cc .311 .31 .377 .367Bulk, cc g . 3.22 3.23 2.65 2.72Burst Average, Kpa 102.52 117.75 169.49 197.74 Std. dev. 12.42 8.00 12.99 14.21Burst Index mN m sq g 0.81 0.91 1.27 1.43Tensile Avg. kg m 262.64 292.64 363.96 396.07 Std. dev. 15.88 16.40 42.51 59.56Breaking Length, Km 2.07 2.27 2.73 2.87Tensile Index, kN m kg 20.31 22.21 26.78 28.15Stretch Avg., 0.72 0.78 0.80 0.93 Std. dev. 0.04 0.13 0.10 0.05Tear Avg., 16 ply mN 464.60 447.34 517.97 423.79 Std. dev. 26.26 11.10 66.59 22.53Tear Index mH m sq g 3.66 3.46 3.89 3.07Double Folds Avg., 1.0 kg NA NA NA NA Std. dev. NA NA NA NAGurley Air Resistance sec 100 cc 20 oz. cyl. 3.57 6.07 19.27 51.23Brightness, Elrepho 19.10 18.77 18.90 20.07Concora Med.Test, N 53.38 94.52 221.66 355.84 Std. dev. 8.90 37.98 4.71 5.35Ring Crush, kN m 0.90 1.11 1.50 1.81 Std. dev. 0.04 0.05 0.08 0.11 TABLE 5 50 Aspen, 50 OakCooking Time 30 min.Cooking Sol. 1 part MEA, 3 parts NH40HCooking Yield 87.29 BEATING TIME, MINUTES 50 60 68 90Freeness C.S.,cc 494 389 301 108O.D. Sheet Wt. 2.50 2.78 2.71 2.65 grams meter sq 124.89 138.93 135.50 132.56Caliper Avg. SS,mm .385 .42 .369 .321 Std. dev..022 .018 .02 .018Apparent Density g cc .324 .331 .367 .413Bulk, cc g 3.09 3.02 2.72 2.42Burst Average, Kpa 116.30 150.48 237.29 247.35 Std. dev. 9.79 6.76 10.44 14.27 Burst Index mN m sq g 0.93 1.08 1.75 1.87Tensile Avg. kg m 267.97 344.63 483.95 523.95 Std. dev. 7.67 58.66 17.54 47.28Breaking Length, Km 2.15 2.48 3.57 3.95Tensile Index, kN m kg 21.04 24.33 35.03 38.76Stretch Avg., 0.74 0.92 1.06 1.06 Std. dev. 0.05 0.08 0.09 0.05Tear Avg., 16 ply mN 530.52 740.85 684.35 483.44 Std. dev. 35.79 257.29 56.16 28.08Tear Index mH m sq g 4.25 5.33 5.05 3.65Double Folds Avg., 1.0 kg NA NA NA NA Std. dev. NA NA NA NAGurley Air Resistance sec 100 cc 20 oz. cyl. 4.00 6.77 18.13 80.70Brightness, Elrepho 16.27 16.60 15.80 17.43Concora Med.Test, N 100.82 163.69 286.90 362.51 Std. dev. 5.14 18.98 1.64 3.62Ring Crush, kN m 0.97 1.49 1.60 1.81 Std. dev. 0.04 0.23 0.17 0.11 As another example of a preferred embodiment of this invention, used to produce corrugating media pulp, fresh aspen chips were used. The chips were classified with a 1 inch screen and with a 1 4 inch screen so that only material passing through the 1 inch screen and not passing through the 1 4 inch screen was used. In order to optimize the composition of the pulping solution, initially, three laboratory cooks were used. The chips were initially presteamed for 10 minutes at 100 degrees C. The pulping solution was preheated to 160 degrees C. in a vertical digester, and the chips were then preheated to 142 degrees C.In the three cooks, a ratio of 4 1 liquor to wood was maintained although some water was added to the chips to prevent burning during the preheating process. In each cook, the chips were held for 15 minutes at 165 degrees C. and constant pressure. After cooking, the chips were removed from the digester and fiberized hot in a refiner. Fiberized pulp was then washed with 150 degree F. water and dewatered using a press. At this point total yield was obtained. Table 7 below sets forth the condition used in three separate tests of the process of this invention, and Tables 8 10 provide the physical data from said tests. Clearly the test utilizing equal quantities of monoethanolamine and ammonium hydroxide provided the optimum results. These laboratory tests were conducted in a McConnell horizontal rotary stainless steel digester. Refining was carried out with a Sprout Waidron Model 105 10 h.p. disc refiner equipped with spiked tooth plate Nos. 17780R and 17779S. The pulping conditions were the same in all three laboratory cooks set forth in Table 1. The cooks were presteamed for 10 minutes at 100 degrees C. The NSCMP liquor was preheated to 160 degrees C. and the aspen chips were preheated to 142 degrees C.A 4 1 liquor to wood ratio was retained in these tests although some water was added to the chips to prevent burning during the preheating process. The cooks were held for 15 min. at 165 degrees C. after transferring the NSCMP liquor onto the chips. After cooking the chips were removed from the digester and fiberized hot in the refiner. The fiberized pulp was then washed with 150 degree F. water and dewatered using a press. At this point the total yield was obtained by determining the oven dry weight of the pulp from a consistency determination and dividing the pulp weight byrthe oven dry weight of the initial charge. TABLE 7 LABORATORY COOKING DATACook No. 300 301 302Identification NSCMP NSCMP NSCMP CTMP CTMP CTMPChip Type ASPEN ASPEN ASPENConditionsChip Solids, 53.54 53.63 54.35Chip Charge, O. D. Grams 1500 1500 1500Pre Steam Time, min. 10 10 10Pre Steam Temp, C. 100 100 100Water from Steam, Mt 427 453 424 Prex Time, min. Prex Weight, tonsLiquor Wood Ratio 4 1 4 1 4 1Total Liquid, ML 6000 6000 6000Liquor Pre Heat Temp, C. 160 160 160Liquor Pre Heat Press, psi 112 96 83Chip Pre Heat Temp, C. 142 142 142Chip Pre Heat Pressure, psi 54 50 46Initial Digester Temp w Liquor Added, C. 151 151 151Initial Digester Press w Liquor Added, psi 82 64 62Time Up, min. 10 10 12Hold Time w Liquor, min. 15 15 15Cooking Temp, C. 165 165 165Cooking Pressure, average psi 113 103 94Vapor Phase Hold Time, min. Vapor Phase Hold Temp, C. Vapor Phase Hold Press, psi ChemicalsChemical K l, mls. amine 125 125 125Chemical K 2, mls. ammonium hyd. 375 125 62.5Water added, mls. 3762 4000 4097Steam Conden. pH 7.8 7.8 7.8Initial Liquor pH 11.43 11.20 11.13Residual Liquor pH 9.35 8.65 8.58 Pulp ResultsTotal Yield, 84.66 88.84 89.75 TABLE 8PHYSICAL TEST DATA FOR COOK 300Beating Times, Min. 12 25 32Freeness C.S., cc 482 380 306O.D. Sheet Wt. 2.57 2.52 2.55 grams meter sq , oven dry 128.63 126.13 127.47Caliper Avg. SS, mm .232 .213 .203 Standard Deviation .006 .005 .004Apparent Density g cc .554 .592 .628Bulk, cc g 1.81 1.69 1.59Burst Average, Kpa 253.55 361.79 400.24 Standard Deviation 14.96 16.05 20.30 Coef. of Variation 5.90 4.44 5.07Burst Index kPa m sq g 1.97 2.87 3.14Tensile Avg. kN m 296.45 400.21 455.14 Standard Deviation 27.05 3.27 21.00 Coef. of Variation 9.12 0.82 4.61Breaking Length, Km 3.52 4.85 5.46Tensile Index, kN m kg 34.56 47.58 53.54Stretch Avg., 1.76 2.24 2.76 Standard Deviation 0.36 0.33 0.26 Coef. of Variation 20.33 14.67 9.45Tear Avg., 16 ply mN 659.23 648.36 627.84 Standard Deviation 89.48 79.30 55.49 Coef. of Variation 13.57 12.23 8.84Tear Index mN m sq g 5.13 5.14 4.93Gurley Air Resistance sec 100 cc 20 oz. cyl. 33.45 108.40 248.95Brightness, Elrepho 19.80 19.40 19.20Concora Med. Test, N 231.30 299.80 350,06 Standard Deviation 8.65 4.30 2.21 Coef. of Variation 3.74 1.43 0.63Ring Crush, kN m 1.26 1.65 1.65 Standard Deviation 0.14 0.07 0.12 Coef. of Variation 10.85 4.43 7.19 TABLE 9PHYSICAL TEST DATA FOR COOK 301Beating Times, Min. 37 5 62Freeness C.S., cc 507 418 303O.D.Sheet Wt. 2.55 2.48 2.61 grams meter sq , oven dry 127.59 123.80 130.66Caliper Avg. SS, mn .236 .207 .202 Standard Deviation .005 .005 .005Apparent Density g cc .541 .598 .647Bulk, cc g 1.85 1.67 1.55Burst Average, Kpa 278.36 345.95 439.31 Standard Deviation 15.26 23.60 30.68 Coef. of Variation 5.48 6.82 6.98Burst Index kPa m sq g 2.18 2.79 3.36Tensile Avg. kN m 345.28 413.29 490.89 Standard Deviation 16.71 3.27 22.53 Coef. of Variation 4.84 0.79 4.59Breaking Length, Km 4.14 5.10 5.74Tensile Index, kN m kg 40.58 50.06 56.33Stretch Avg., 1.82 2.26 2.94 Standard Deviation 0.22 0.23 0.17 Coef. of Variation 11.91 10.19 5.69Tear Avg., 16 ply mN 871.13 761.26 855.43 Standard Deviation 42.99 21.49 32.83 Coef. of Variation 4.93 2.82 3.84Tear Index mN m sq g 6.83 6.15 6.55Gurley Air Resistance sec 100 cc 20 oz. cyl. 43.10 149.35 368.20Brightness, Elrepho 20.80 20.60 20.30Concora Med. Test, N 239.75 308.69 378.97 Standard Deviation 10.78 25.35 4.13 Coef. of Variation 4.50 8.21 1.09Ring Crush, kN m 1.41 1.68 1.69 Standard Deviation 0.19 0.12 0.11 Coef. of Variation 13.62 7.12 6.43 TABLE 10PHYSICAL TEST DATA FOR COOK 302Beating Times, Min. 178 198Freeness C.S., cc 407 307O.D. Sheet Wt. 2.58 2.56 grams meter sq , oven dry 128.92 128.11Caliper Avg.SS, mm .224 .205 Standard Deviation .005 .005Apparent Density g cc .576 .625Bulk, cc g 1.74 1.60Burst Average, Kpa 272.84 367.37 Standard Deviation 17.35 32.10 Coef. of Variation 6.36 8.74Burst Index kPa m sq g 2.12 2.87Tensile Avg. kN m 367.51 455.55 Standard Deviation 16.28 22.74 Coef. of Variation 4.43 5.10Breaking Length, Km 4.36 5.32Tensile Index, kN m kg 42.74 52.15Stretch Avg., 2.16 2.36 Standard Deviation 0.17 0.22 Coef. of Variation 7.75 9.28Tear Avg., 16 ply mN 722.02 690.62 Standard Deviation 102.33 65.66 Coef. of Variation 14.17 9.51Tear Index mN m sq g 5.60 5.39Gurley Air Resistance sec 100 cc 20 oz. cyl. 57.70 241.10Brightness, Elrepho 21.80 21.40Concora Med.Test, N 251.76 328.71 Standard Deviation 10.31 8.76 Coef. of Variation 4.10 2.66Ring Crush, kN m 1.53 1.68 Standard Deviation 0.10 0.14 Coef. of Variation 6.43 8.21 TABLE 11 CONDITIONS USED FOR THE PRODUCTION OF NSCMP CHEMITHERMOMECHANICAL PULPRun No. 2299 1 2 3 4 4A 5Chip Moisture, 47.64 47.64 47.64 47.64 47.64 47.64 Infeed Hopper, Speed, r.p.m. 13.0 13.5 13.5 15.0 15.0 15.0Presteaming Time, mins. 10 10 10 10 10 10Preheater Pressure, psig 90 90 90 95 98 98 Temperature, degrees F. 330 330 330 325 325 325Retention Time, mins. 12.5 12.0 12.0 12.5 12.5 12.0Chip Level in Preheater, Full 90 80 80 80 80 80Refiner Pressure, psig 90 90 90 95 98 98Plate Clearance, mm 0.6 0.6 0.5 0.8 1.0 1.0Discharge Screw, r.p.m. 10 10 10 10 10 10Refiner Dilution Water, 1 min. 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.4 0.4 0.4Chip Plug Pressure, psig 45 45 45 45 45 45Discharge Consistency, 19.5 17.1 16.63 Pulp Freeness, C.S., cc 746 748 742 766Production Rate, OD Tons Day Power Used net Kwh Ton Yield, Liquor to Digester, 1 min. 1.70 1.70 2.20 2.16 2.16 2.16K 1 K 2 Ratio, as rec d. 1 1 1 1.37 1 1.35 1 1.35 1 1.35 1 1.35Liquor to Wood Ratio, Ca. 4 1 4 1 4 1 4 1 4 1 4 1Refiner Used Defibrator Pilot Plant Unit 300 with 200 hp. motor 3565 r.p.m. Discs Employed a Defibrator disc No. RW 3801 AGSE on Stator b Defibrator disc No. RW 3809 AGSE on RotorDisc Diameter 12 inches The pulping conditions were based on a constant temperature instead of pressure. It was found that excessive vapor pressure resulted with the NSCMP liquor. As the percentage of ammonium hydroxide increased, the vapor pressure increased and the yield systematically dropped, indicative of a greater degree of pulping. The conditions and chemical concentrations from cook 301 were chosen as superior due to the physical strengths and yield.The concorra, ring crush and percent stretch increase slightly in cook 301. A marked trend or significant increase in physical strength was not evident when comparing the three cooks. Further tests to optirize were conducted at pilot plant level using a Sunds defibrator which is a continuous digester.It was found that vapor equilibrium, however, was maintained more efficiently in a batch digester which therefore may be more chemically economical. A total of six pulping trials were made to duplicate and optimize cooking conditions. The ratio of monoethanolamine to ammonia was varied from 1 1 to 1 3.5 to obtain best pulping kenetics. In addition several refiner plate clearances ere tried. The pulping and refining conditions are shown in Table 11 and the physical tests are shown in Tables 12 16. TABLE 12 A CONDITIONS USED FOR THE PRODUCTION OF NSCMP CHEMITHERMOMECHANICAL PULPRun No. 2299 6 Production Chip Moisture, t 48.13 48.13 48.13 48.13 48.13 48.13Infeed Hopper, Speed, r.p.m. 16.0 16.0 16.0 16.0 16.0 16.0Presteaming Time, mins. 10 10 10 10 10 10Preheater Pressure, psig 100 108 102 102 104 100Temperature, degrees F. 325 330 326 332 330 325Retention Time, mins. 12.0 12.0 12.0 12.0 12.0 12.0Chip Level in Preheater, Full 80 80 80 80 80 80Refiner Pressure, psig 100 108 102 102 104 100Plate Clearance, mm 0.8 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0Discharge Screw, r.p.m. 10 10 10 10 10 10Refiner Dilution Water, 1 min. 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4Chip Plug Pressure, psig 47 47 47 47 47 47Discharge Consistency, t 19.95 19.95 19.95 19.95 19.95 19.95Pulp Freeness, C.S., cc 747 747 747 747 747 747Production Rate, OD Tons Day 1.06 1.06 1.06 1.06 1.06 1.06Power Used net Kwh Ton 90.9 90.9 90.9 90.9 90.9 90.9Yield, 91.59 91.59 91.59 91.59 91.59 91.59Liquor to Digester, 1 min. 2.33 2.33 2.30 2.30 2.12 2.12K 1 K 2 Ratio, as rec d. 1 1.35 1 1.35 1 1.35 1 1.35 1 1.35 1 1.35Liquor to Wood Ratio, Ca. 4 1 4 1 4 1 4 1 4 1 4 1 Run No. 6 includes all production runs.Refiner Used Defibrator Pilot Plant Unit 300 with 200 hp. motor 3565 r.p.m. Discs Employed a Defibrator disc No. RW 3801 AGSE on Stator b Defibrator disc No. RW 3809 AGSE on RotorDisc Diameter 12 inches TABLE 12 B CONDITIONS USED FOR THE PRODUCTION OF NSCMP CHEMITHERMOMECHANICAL PULPRun No. 2299 Production 7 8Chip Moisture, 8 48.13 48.13 48.13 48.13 48.13Infeed Hopper, Speed, r.p.m. 16.0 16.0 16.0 16.0 16.0Presteaming Time, mins. 10 10 10 10 10Preheater Pressure, psig 110 108 100 102 102Temperature, degrees F. 3285 332 3306 3302 330Retention Time, mins. 12.0 12.0 12.0 24.0 24.0Chip Level in Preheater, Full 80 80 80 80 80Refiner Pressure, psig 110 108 100 102 Plate Clearance, mm 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 Discharge Screw, r.p.m. 10 10 10 10 Refiner Dilution Water, 1 min. 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 Chip Plug Pressure, psig 47 48 48 48 48Discharge Consistency, 19.95 19.95 19.95 Pulp Freeness, C.S., cc 747 747 747 745 773Production Rate, OD Tons Day 1.06 1.06 1.06 Power Used net Kwh Ton 90.9 90.9 90.9 Yield, 91.59 91.59 91.59 Liquor to Digester, 1 min. 2.12 2.24 2.24 2.24 2.24K 1 K 2 Ratio, as rec d. 1 1.35 1 1.35 1 1.35 1 1.35 1 1.35Liquor to Wood Ratio, Ca. 4 1 4 1 4 1 4 1 4 1Refiner Used Defibrator Pilot Plant Unit 300 with 200 hp. motor 3565 r.p.m. Discs Employed a Defibrator disc No. RW 3801 AGSE on Stator b Defibrator disc No. RW 3809 AGSE on RotorDisc Diameter 12 inches TABLE 13PHYSICAL TEST DATA FOR DEFIBRATOR COOK 2Beating Times, Min. 74 92 105Freeness C.S., cc 496 390 293O.D. Sheet Wt. 2.55 2.58 2.55 grams meter sq , oven dry 127.41 129.11 127.41Caliper Avg.SS, mm .266 .26 .213 Standard Deviation .005 .004 .005Apparent Density g cc .479 .497 .598Bulk, cc g 2.09 2.01 1.67Burst Average, Kpa 110.79 155.30 216.55 Standard Deviation 9.73 5.89 14.20 Coef. of Variation 8.79 3.79 6.56Burst Index kPa m sq g 0.87 1.20 1.70Tensile Avg. kN m 196.18 247.62 307.79 Standard Deviation 9.75 20.31 15.90 Coef. of Variation 4.97 8.20 5.17Breaking Length, Km 2.35 2.93 3.69Tensile Index, kN m kg 23.09 28.76 36.22Stretch Avg., 1.28 1.44 1.60 Standard Deviation 0.11 0.30 0.20 Coef. of Variation 8.56 20.60 12.50Tear Avg., 16 ply mN 251.14 261.60 266.83 Standard Deviation 35.10 45.31 42.99 Coef. of Variation 13.98 17.32 16.11Tear Index mN m sq g 1.97 2.03 2.09Gurley Air Resistance sec 100 cc 20 oz. cyl. 12.27 28.27 91.60Brightness, Elrepho 30.60 31.20 29.90Concora ed. Test, N 157.01 221.96 283.78 Standard Deviation 7.28 9.01 2.70 Coef. of Variation 4.64 4.06 0.95Ring Crush, kN m 0.98 1.18 1.64 Standard Deviation 0.05 0.02 0.14 Coef. of Variation 5.10 2.09 8.70 TABLE 14PHYSICAL TEST DATA FOR DEFIBRATOR COOK 3Beating Times, Min. 73 90 100Freeness C.S., cc 494 408 311O.D. Sheet Wt. 2.52 2.60 2.57 grams meter sq , oven dry 125.99 130.03 128.32Caliper Avg.SS, mm .255 .243 .202 Standard Deviation .007 .005 .002Apparent Density g cc .494 .535 .635Bulk, cc g 2.02 1.87 1.57Burst Average, Kpa 118.03 185.69 230.75 Standard Deviation 9.03 6.04 10.66 Coef. of Variation 7.65 3.25 4.62Burst Index kPa m sq g 0.94 1.43 1.80Tensile Avg. kN m 212.75 287.73 335.25 Standard Deviation 22.10 17.97 16.63 Coef. of Variation 10.39 6.25 4.96Breaking Length, Km 2.58 3.38 3.99Tensile Index, kN m kg 25.32 33.18 39.17Stretch Avg., 1.28 1.68 1.92 Standard Deviation 0.23 0.23 0.23 Coef. of Variation 17.82 13.57 11.88Tear Avg., 16 ply mN 266.83 313.92 345.31 Standard Deviation 42.99 55.49 42.99 Coef. of Variation 16.11 17.68 12.45Tear Index mN m sq g 2.12 2.41 2.69Gurley Air Resistance sec 100 cc 20 oz. cyl. 12.43 4t.97 137.30Brightness, Elrepho 30.00 30.20 29.00Concora Med. Test, N 159.68 254.87 310.47 Standard Deviation 6.10 9.39 1.40 Coef. of Variation 3.82 3.68 0.45Ring Crush, krJ m 1.00 1.42 1.56 Standard Deviation 0.07 0.07 0.17 Coef. of Variation 6.60 5.17 10.63 TABLE 15PHYSICAL TEST DATA FOR DEFIBRATOR COOK 4ABeating Times, Min. 52 65 76 Preeness C.S., cc 479 402 303O.D. Sheet Wt. 2.52 2.51 2.56 grams meter sq , oven dry 126.19 125.56 127.81Caliper Avg.SS, mm .23 .215 .201 Standard Deviation .003 .003 .003Apparent Density g cc .549 .584 .636Bulk, cc g 1.82 1.71 1.57Burst Average, Xpa 208.56 258.44 349.32 Standard Deviation 9.83 11.09 6.01 Coef. of Variation 4.71 4.29 1.72Burst Index kPa m sq g 1.65 2.06 2.73Tensile Avg. kN m 266.81 314.32 384.08 Standard Deviation 25.68 3.27 32.42 Coef. of Variation 9.63 1.04 8.44Breaking Length, Km 3.23 3.83 4.59Tensile Index, kN m kg 31.70 37.54 45.06Stretch Avg., t 1.92 2.16 2.56 Standard Deviation 0.30 0.46 . 0.33 Coef. of Variation 15.80 21.11 12.84Tear Avg., 16 ply mN 517.97 549.36 565.06 Standard Deviation 70.19 0.00 35.10 Coef. of Variation 13.55 0.00 6.21Tear Index mN m sq g 4.10 4.38 4.42Gurley Air Resistance sec 100 cc 20 oz. cyl. 17.47 48.97 158.63Brightness, Elrepho 27.40 27.50 27.00Concora Med.Test, N 243.75 292.01 346.28 Standard Deviation 14.94 17.73 5.42 Coef. of Variation 6.13 6.07 1.56Ring Crush, kN m 1.11 1.42 1.56 Standard Deviation 0.20 0.11 0.13 Coef. of Variation 17.90 7.70 8.61 TABLE 16PHYSICAL TEST DATA FOR DEFIBRATOR COOK 5Beating Times, Min. 59 74 87Freeness C.S., cc 505 393 282O.D. Sheet Wt. 2.53 2.55 2.54 grams meter sq , oven dry 126.74 127.46 126.92Caliper Avg.SS, mm .235 .212 .191 Standard Deviation .002 .005 .006Apparent Density g cc .539 .601 .665Bulk, cc g 1.86 1.66 150 Burst Average, Kpa 4 204.22 246.46 329.20 Standard Deviation 9.59 20.05 17.94 Coef. of Variation 4.70 8.14 5.45Burst Index kPa m sq g 1.61 1.93 2.59Tensile Avg. kN m 269.42 325.22 379.72 Standard Deviation 17.61 3.27 10.04 Coef. of Variation 6.54 1.01 2.64Breaking Length, Km 3.25 3.90 4.57Tensile Index, kN m kg 31.88 38.26 44.86Stretch Avg., 2.00 2.16 2.28 Standard Deviation 0.14 0.09 0.36 Coef. of Variation 7.07 4.14 15.94Tear Avg., 16 ply mN 502.27 565.06 568.98 Standard Deviation 70.19 65.66 39.24 Coef. of Variation 13.98 11.62 6.90Tear Index mN m sq g 3.96 4.43 4.48Gurley Air Resistance sec 100 cc 20 oz. cyl. 18.63 44.73 273.43Brightness, Elrepho 29.80 28.90 28.60Concora Med. Test, N 218.84 269.10 344.28 Standard Deviation 7.79 9.44 2.76 Coef. of Variation 3.56 3.51 0.80Ring Crush, kN m 1.02 1.20 1.51 Standard Deviation 0.11 0.12 0.10 Coef. of Variation 10.33 10.35 6.45 TABLE 17 PHYSICAL TEST DATA FORPRODUCTION SAMPLE DRUM NO. 1 DIFIBRATORBeating Times, Min. 45 57 64Freeness C.S., cc 492 391 302O.D.Sheet Wt. 2.58 2.56 2.57 grams meter sq , oven dry 128.93 127.85 128.57Caliper Avg. SS, mm .206 .193 .18 Standard Deviation .003 .004 .006Apparent Density g cc .626 .662 .714Bulk, cc g 1.60 1.51 1.40Burst Average, Kpa 248.25 300.13 362.14 Standard Deviation 20.42 16.06 21.98 Coef. of Variation 8.22 5.35 6.07Burst Index kPa m sq g 1.93 2.35 2.82Tensile Avg. kN m 304.30 350.51 400.21 Standard Deviation 32.83 3.27 21.93 Coef. of Variation 10.79 0.93 5.48Breaking Length, Km 3.61 4.19 4.76Tensile Index, kN m kg 35.39 41.11 46.67Stretch Avg., 1.92 2.24 2.64 Standard Deviation 0.46 0.26 0.38 Coef. of Variation 23.98 11.64 14.57Tear Avg., 16 ply mN 580.75 565.06 580.75 Standard Deviation 42.99 35.10 42.99 Coef. of Variation 7.40 6.21 7.40Tear Index mN m sq g 4.50 4.42 4.52Gurley Air Resistance sec 100 cc 20 oz. cyl. 51.83 121.93 310.10Brightness, Elrepho 26.60 26.40 26.10Concora Med. Test, N 295.79 323.81 350.50 Standard Deviation 11.00 11.73 3.58 Coef. of Variation 3.72 3.62 1.02Ring Crush, kN m 1.36 1.40 1.47 Standard Deviation 0.19 0.16 0.13 Coef. of Variation 14.33 11.12 8.58 Run Nos. 2299 7 and 2299 8 were made to determine if theSunds refiner plates were ideally suited to preserve tear and if extending pulping time would increase the physical paper properties significantly. The retention time weas increased from 12 to 24 minutes in both cooks. Run No. 2299 7 was treated identically to the production run with the exception of retention time.Run No. 2299 8 was held 24 minutes in the digester and then the chips were removed and defibered in the Sprout Waldron refiner. Secondary refining was performed on both samples in a valley beater to ensure identical treatment. The physical test data are shown in Tables 18 and 19. As shown, the physical properties are improved when different refining conditions are used. The pulp was then fed to a Sprout Waldron 36 2 disc refiner powered by a 4 speed, 300 hp motor operated at 1800 r.p.m., wherein deshiving occurred. Deshiving date are shown in Table 20. Deshived pulp was then washed by processing over the wet end of a 36 Fourdrinier paper machine. Washed pulp was refined in a 3 pass operation at a consistency of 3.18 to a C.S. Canadian Standard freeness of 365. Refining was accomplished by pulping from one chest through the refiner into another chest. Refining data are shown at Table 21. Waste clippings were dispersed in a hydrapulper and passed through a twin flow refiner at a wide plate clearance to disperse any fiber bundles. Freeness before the twin flow was 541 C.S.F. and after the twin flow was 435 C.S.F. Two papers were produced. One paper consisted of 85 NSCMP aspen and 15 clippings and the other was 100 NSCMP aspen. Both papers ran well and a large role was produced from each. Each furnish was pumped from the machine chest through a Foxboro Flow Controller to the suction of a fan pump. Thick stock was diluted with white water from the wire to the required paper making consistency at the fan pump. The fiber slurry was fan pump through a 5 pipe manifold inlet to the head box. Paper produced was wound on 3 inch fiber cores. The paper making test data are shown on Table 22. Dry end paper test data are shown on Table 23. TABLE 18 PHYSICAL TEST DATA FOR PULP SAMPLE PASSING THROUGH REFINER DIGESTER HOLD TIME 24 MIN. Beating Times, Min. 41 51 60Freeness C.S., cc 494 389 315O.D. Sheet Wt. 2.55 2.57 2.54 grams meter sq , oven dry 127.63 128.27 126.90Caliper Avg. SS, iflin .224 .216 .199 Standard Deviation .005 .006 .004Apparent Density g cc .57 .594 .638Bulk, cc g 1.75 1.68 . Burst Average, Kpa 236.05 281.53 356.76 Standard Deviation 15.23 10.68 11.30 Coef. of Variation 6.45 3.79 3.17Burst Index kPa m sq g 1.85 2.19 2.81Tensile Avg. kN m 5.17 5.36 6.33 Standard Deviation 0.18 0.18 0.53 Coef. of Variation 3.58 3.36 8.37Breaking Length, Km 4.13 4.26 5.08Tensile Index, kN m kg 40.46 41.79 49.84Stretch Avg., 2.20 1.80 3.15 Standard Deviation 0.14 0.28 0.21 Coef. of Variation 6.43 15.71 6.73Tear Avg., 16 ply mN 674.93 627.84 612.14 Standard Deviation 32.83 27.75 35.10 Coef. of Variation 4.86 4.42 5.73Tear Index m.N m sq g 5.29 4.89 4.82Gurley Air Resistance sec 100 cc 20 oz. cyl. 21.40 46.93 137.33Brightness, Elrepho 24.80 24.73 24.63Concora ed. Test, N 264.21 310.47 370.52 Standard Deviation 11.13 11.25 3.62 Coef. of Variation 4.21 3.62 0.98Ring Crush, kN m 1.39 1.45 1.61 Standard Deviation 0.13 0.11 0.07 Coef. of Variation 9.11 7.62 4.23 TABLE 19 PHYSICAL TEST DATA FOR CHIPS REMOVED FROM TRE DIGESTER ANDDEFIBERED IN A LABORATORY REFINER 12 C DISC DIGESTER HOLD TIME 25 MIN. Beating Times, Min. 36 47 62Freeness C.S., cc 502 404 305O.D. Sheet Wt. 2.56 2.56 2.57 grams meter sq , oven dry 127.89 127.80 128.43Caliper Avg.SS, mm .23 .227 .2 Standard Deviation .003 .006 .003Apparent Density g cc .556 .563 .642Bulk, cc g 1.80 1.78 1.56Burst Average, Kpa 233.09 280.97 381.02 Standard Deviation 22.22 11.42 18.93 Coef. of Variation 9.53 4.06 4.97Burst Index kPa m sq g 1.82 2.20 2.97Tensile Avg. k m 5.02 5.92 7.36 Standard Deviation 0.39 0.14 0.09 Coef. of Variation 7.77 2.36 1.22Breaking Length, Kmw 4.00 4.72 5.84Tensile Index, kN m kg 39.23 46.29 57.26Stretch Avg., 1.85 2.10 2.55 Standard Deviation 0.35 0.14 0.21 Coef. of Variation 19.11 6.73 8.32Tear Avg., 16 ply mN 753.41 729.86 706.32 Standard Deviation 32.83 35.10 27.75 Coef. of Variation 4.36 4.81 3.93Tear Index mN m sq g 5.89 5.71 5.50Gurley Air Resistance sec 100 cc 20 oz. cyl. 31.07 66.40 176.90Brightness, Elrepho 26.17 26.73 25.97Concora ed. Test, N 237.97 283.78 335.38 Standard Deviation 8.45 10.85 2.01 Coef. of Variation 3.55 3.83 0.60Ring Crush, kN m 1.34 1.53 1.62 Standard Deviation 0.13 0.08 0.08 Coef. of Variation 9.67 5.18 4.81 TABLE 20 DESHIVING DATA, 36 2 DISC REFINERRun No. 2299 1Plate Pattern, Rotor D14A002 Stator D14A002Ring Pattern 17709Refiner Speed, r.p.m. 1800Type Feed Belt ConveyorType Pulp NSCMP AspenRefining Consistency, 96 25OD Tons Day Production 6.12HP Days OD Ton, Gross 11.4 Net 5.8Freeness to Refiner, 3 g., C.S. 750 from Refiner, 3 g., C.S. 654Plate Clearance, Mils 8Ring Clearance, Mils Off TABLE 21 12 TWIN FLOW REFINER DATAPass No. 1 2 3Plate Patter, Stator Motor End D5A007 Rotor Motor End D5A007 Rotor Cylinder End D5A008 Stator Cylinder End D5A008 Refiner Speed, r.p.m. 1800 Total Amperage 90 90 80Idle Amperage 70 70 70Refining Amperage 20 20 10Refining Consistency, 96 3.10 3.10 3.10Flow Rate, g.p.m. 120 120 140OD Tons Day Production 22.3 22.3 26.1HP Days OD Ton, Gross 3.6 3.6 2.7 Net 0.79 0.79 0.34Freeness to Refiner, 3 g, C.S. 636 536 426 from Refiner, 3 g., C.S. 536 426 365 TABLE 22PAPER MACHINE DATARun Number 2299 1 2299 2Furnish, NSCMP Aspen 85 100 Clippings 15Chest Freeness, CS.,. ml. 410 386 Consistency, 8 2.29 2.63 pH 8.2 8.3Headbox Freeness, C.S., ml. 356 369 Consistency, 0.63 0.60 pH 8.1 8.1Homogenizing Roll, r.p.m. Top 150 150Shake, Strokes per Minute 190 190Machine Speed, f.p.m. 70 70Vacuum in Hg., 1st Box 4.0 4.0 2nd Box 4.5 4.5 3rd Box 4.5 4.5 4th Box 4.0 4.0 Couch 7.0 6.0Pressing PLI, 1st Press 180 180 2nd Press 160 160Pressing PLI, Calender, 1 Nip 50 50Drier Pressure, psig 1st Section, Drier 1 30 20 2 30 20 num 3 4 30 20 num 5, num 6, num 7 30 20 2nd Section, Drier num 8, num 10, i12 30 20 num 9 i11 30 20Target, g in2 118 118Date of Run, July 1983 29 29 TABLE 23 DRY END PAPER TEST DATARun No.Basis Wt. gm 2 Caliper Mils Moisture Content 2299 Front Back Front Middle Back O.D. MoistureStart 1 119.8 119.8 8.6 8.7 8.8 95.0 5.0End 123.0 123.0 8.9 8.9 8.9 94.4 5.6Start 2 117.5 117.5 8.4 8.5 8.2 94.9 5.1End 118.5 118.5 8.3 8.5 8.4 94.0 6.0 TABLE 24 PHYSICAL TEST DATA FOR SAMPLES FROM RUN 1 AND 2 Run 1 Run 1 Run 2 Run 2Sample ID MD CD MD CD grams meter sq. , conditioned basis 132.00 128.30 grams meter sq. ,Oven dry 121.50 117.82Caliper Avg. SS, mm .225 .214 Std. dev..004 .007Apparent Density g cc .587 .6Bulk, cc g 1.70 1.67Burst Average, kPa 232.81 193.13 Standard Deviation 11.94 27.79 Coef. of Variation 5.13 14.39Burst Index mN m sq. g 1.76 1.51Tensile Avg. kN m 6.45 3.95 6.02 2.81 Standard Deviation 0.57 0.10 0.41 0.04 Coef. of Variation 8,87 2.44 6.89 1.36Breaking Length, Km 4.99 3.05 4.79 2.23Tensile Index, kNtm kg 48.88 29.91 46.96 21.89Tensile MD CO Ratio 1.63 2.15Stretch Avg., 1.66 2.69 1.34 2.43 Standard Deviation 0.11 0.18 0.13 0.15 Coef. of Variation 6.67 6.69 9.89 6.26Tear Avg., 16 ply mN 903.15 1017.10 432.58 725.16 Standard Deviation 91.16 128.19 77.45 23.28 Coef. of Variation 10.09 12.60 17.90 3.21Tear Index mN m sq. g 6.84 7.71 3.37 5.65Wet Web BreakingLength, m 44.90 23.00Wet Web Stretch, 3.4 2.22Gurley Air Resistance sec 100 cc 20 oz. cyl. 8.77 9.37Brightness, Elrepho 21.10 21.83Concora Med. Test, N 255.76 269.10 Standard Deviation 24.29 6.26 Coef. of Variation 9.5 2.33Ring Crush, kN m 1.22 1.02 Standard Deviation .07 .15 Coef. of Variation 6.00 14.75 In summary, it has been discovered that superior coht media pulp can be produced from hardwood according to the process of this invention on a continuous basis wherein the pulping liquor is a dilute aqueous solution of a lower alkanolamine and ammonium hydroxide wherein the weight ratio is one part amine to about one to about three parts ammonium hydroxide. In one preferred embodiment substantially equal concentrations of the amine and ammonium hydroxide are present. In another preferred embodiment a ratio of 1 3 was preferred. Successful tests have been conducted at other ratios.While the strength character4stics remain roughly equivalent between pulps produced with higher concentrations of ammonia, in a continuous process superior pulps are produced when the concentration of ammonia remains about equal to that of the amine. In the preferred embodiment the weight ratio of liquor to chips is maintained at about 4 1. While the ratio of amine to chips remains unchanged, in a continuous operation a greater yield is achieved by lowering the concentration of ammonia. The invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof.The present embodiment is, therefore, to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive, the scope of the invention being indicated by the appended claims and all changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are, therefore, intended to be embraced therein.