# Trialkylamine preparation by reductive alkylation of dialkylamines with ketones.

## Abstract
Trialkylamines are made by the action of hydrogen on a dialkylamine and a ketone in the presence of a metal sulfide catalyst. E.g., hydrogenation of a mixture of dibutylamine and cyclohexanone, using platinum sulfide catalyst, produces N, N dibutylcyclohexylamine.

## Claims
What is claimed is 1. A method of making a trialkylamine of the formulaEMI14.1 by reductive alkylation, characterized by bringing together a dialkylamine of the formula 1 2 R HR a ketone of the formula EMI14.2 hydrogen, and a catalytic amount of a metal sulfide hydrc,genation catalyst and thereafter recovering the re sultlng trialkylamine, the vales of the R s in the sa d formulas being as follows RÚ and R2 may be the same or different and may be alkyl groups of from 1 to lS carbon atoms or cycloalkyl groups of from 5 to 8 carbon atoms R3 and R4 may be the same or different and may be alkyl groups of from 1 to 17 carbon atoms or R and taken together may form a polymethylene group having 4 to 5 carbon atoms or an alkyl substituted polymethylene group having 6 to 9 carbon atoms. 2. A method as in claim 1 in which the said dialkylamine is dibutylamine or N ethylcyclohexylamine. 3. A method as in claim 1 or claim 2 in which the said ketone is cyclohexanone, acetone, methyl ethyl ketore or methyl isobutyl ketone 4. A method as in claim 1 in which the said catalyst is a sulfide of iron, cobalt, nickel, ruthenium, rhodium, palladium, osmium, iridium, platinum, molybdenum, tungsten or rhenium. A A method as in claim 1, claim 2 or claim 3 in which the said catalyst is platinum sulfide. . 6. A method as in claim 1 carried out at temperature of from 5 to 250 and a pressure of from atmospheric to 10,000 psig

## Description
This invention relates to a method of making trialkylamines There are several references that describe the reductive alkylation of dialkylamines with ketones to produce trialkylamines. However, we know of no prior art o the use of metal sulfide catalysts for this reaction. Schmerling, in U.S, 3,247,209 April 19, 1966 , has described the use of a sulfided platinum catalyst for the reductive alkylation of secondary alicyi lic amines in which the nitrogen atom is part of a hetirocyclic ring, specifically, 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro quinolines, with ketones. This invention is concerned with the use of metal sulfide catalysts, such as the sulfides of iron, cobalt, nickel, ruthenium, rhodium, palladium, osmium, iridium, platinum, molybdenum, tungsten and rhenium, for the reductive alkylation of dialkylamines with ketones.EMI1.1 EMI1.2 tb SEP R1 SEP R3 tb crit. SEP K CK SEP SEP H20 tb SEP R SEP R tb SEP I tb and Rê may be the same or different and may be alkyl groups of from 1 to 18 carbon atoms or cycloalkyl groups of from 5 to 8 carbon atoms.R and R4 may be the same or different and may be alkyl groups of from 1 to 17 carbon atoms or R3 and R4 taken together may form a polymethylene group having 4 to 5 carbon atoms or an alkyl substituted polymethylene group having 6 to 9 carbon atoms. Examples of useful dialkylamines are dimethylamine, diethylamine, dipropylamine, diisopropylamine, dibutylamine, diicobutylamine, di sec butylamine, di amylamine, diisoamylamine, dfhexylamine, dicyclohexylamine, diheptylamine, dioctylamine, bis l methylheptyl amine, 2,2 diethyldihexylamine, didecylamine, didodecyl amine, N methylbutylamine, N ethylbutylamine, N methylcyclohexylamine, N ethylcyclohexylamine, N isopropylcyclohexylamine, N methyloctadecylamine, N methylcyclodecylamine N,N diethylethylenediamine, N,N dimethyl N ethylethylenediamine, N,N,N triethylethylenediamine,N,N,N trimethylethylenediamine, N,N diethyl 1,3 propanediamine, N,N dimethyl 1,6 hexanediamine, etc. Examples of useful ket ones are acetone, 2 butanone, dihexyl ketonc, 2,6 dimethyl 3 heptanone, 2,6dimethyl 4 heptanone, 3,5 dimethyl 4 heptanone, 2,4dimethyl 3 pentanone, 4,4 dimethyl 2 pentanone, 2heptanone, 3 heptanone, 4 heptanone, 2 hexanone, 3hexanone, mesithyl oxide, 4 methyl 3 heptanone, 5 methyl 2 hex .none, 3 methyl 2 pentancne, lO nonadec anone, 2 nonanone, 5 nananone, 2 octanone, 3 octanone, 4 octanone, 2 pentanone, 3 pentanone, 2 undecanone, 6undecanone, isophorone, cyclohexanone, cyclopentanone, 3 methylcyclohexanone,4 t butylcyclohexanone, etc. The hydrogenation process may be carried out in the absence of any solvent mecium, or in the presence of an inert organic. solvent, including, for example, aliphstic or cycloaliphatic alcohols, such as methyl alcohol, ethyl alcohol, propyl alcohol, isopropyl al alcohol, butyl alcohol, isobutyl alcohol, sec butyl alcohol, tert butyl alcohol, ethyl alcohol, isoamyl alcohol, tert amyl alcohol, hexyl alcohol, cyclohexanol, octyl alcohol, 2 etbylbexanol, decyl alcohol, dodecanol, tetradecanol, hexadecanol, octadecanol, ethylene glycol, propylene glycol, glycerol, etc ethers, such as diethyl ether cipropyl ether, diisopropyl ether, methyl butyl ether, ethyl.butyl ether,dibutyl ether, diamyl ether, diisoainyl ether, dihexyl ether, ethylene glycol dimethyl ether, ethylene glycol diethyl ether, ethylene glycol dibutyl ether, 1,3 dioxolane, 1,4 dioxane, tetrahydrofuran alcohol ethers, such as diethylene glycol, trietLylene glycol, tetraethylene glycol, dipropylene glycol , tetraethylene glycol, dipropylene glycol, 2 butoxyethanol, tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol, etc esters, such as methyl acetate, ethyl acetate, propyl acetate, isoprcpyl acetate, butyl acetate, isobutyl acetate, methyl amyl acetate, 2 ethylhexyl acetate, diethyl succinate, etc nitriles, such as acetonitrile, propeionitrile, butyronitrile, etc amides, such as formamide, acetamide, propionamide, N,N dimethylformamide, N,N diethylformamide,N,N dimethylacetamide, N,N diethylacetamide, etc hydro carbors, such as hexane, 2 metaylpentame, 3 methylpentmle, 2,2 dimethylbutane,2,3 dimethyLbutane, cyclohexane, heptane, 3 methylhexane, octane, 2,2,4 trimethylpentane, 2,3,4 trimethylpentane, decane, decalin, benzene, toluene,xylenes, etc. Preferred solvents are the aliphatic alcohols most preferred are methyl alcohol and isopropyl alcohol. The metal sulfide catalysts are important in this invention because they make the desired hydrogenation possible with little of the side reaction of reduction of ketones to alcohols commonly found with such nonsulfided catalysts as platinum, palladium, nickelm and copper chromate. In addition, they are relatively insensitive to poisons that severely inhibit these other catalysts. Preferred catalysts are the sulfides of platinum, palladium, rhodium, ruthenium, cobalt and nickelm Most preferred are the sulfides of platinum, rhodium and ruthenium. The catalyst may be prepared in situ or added to the reaction mixture after prior preparation and isolation. Commercial catalysts are available. The catalyst may be prepared and used as a bulk powder or supported on a suitable carrier, such as carbon or alumina. The catalyst may be prepared and used as a powder for liquid phase slurry and for vapor phase fluidized reactions, or as a pellet or granule for liquid or vapor phase fixed bed operations. The reactions may be cried out in either batch or cortinuous systems, with esther tank or pipe line type reactors, in the liquid phase with either slurry or fibed bed catalysts, or in the vapor phase with either fluidized or fixed bed catalysts, operating in a manner well knows to those skilled in the art. The hydrogenation may be carried out under conventional reductive alkylatlon conditions, at temperatures ranging from room temperature or below, for example, 50 or less, to over 200 , for example, 250 , or other temperatures as high as the stability of the reactants and products will permit, and at pressures ranging from atmospheric pressure or below to pressures as high as economically practical, for example, up to 10,000 psig or more Preferred is a tenyerature range from 20 to 220 most preferably 90 to 200 and a somewhat elevated pressure of, for example, 10 psig, up to, for instance, 5000 psib, usually 100 to 2500 psig.The conditions may be varied to provide an optimum economic combination of temperature, pressure, catalyst level, and cycle time for any given starting material and catalyst Example 1 illustrates the general applicability and utility of metal sulfide catalysts for the reductive alkylatlon of a dialkylaiine, dibutylamine, with a ketone cyclohexynone, to produce a trialkylamine, N,N dibutylcyclohexylamine. These results are summarized in Table 1. Examples 2, 3, and 4A illustrate the use of a platinum sulfide catalyst for the preparation of trial RBrlamJnes by the reductive alkylation of a dialkylamine.dibutylamine, with a variety of ketones, acetone, methyl ethyl ketone, and methyl isobutyl ketone. A comparison of examples 4A and 4B illustrates the superior performance of a platinum sulfide as compared to a palladium catalyst for the reductive alkyla tion of dibutylunine with methyl isobutyl ketone. The metal sulfide catalyst has better selectivity, as indicated by the higher yield of desired trialkylarnine,N,N dibutyl 1,3 dimethylbutylamine 60 vs 5496 . Example 5, the results of which are summarized in Table 2, compares a platinun sulfide catalyst with a non sulfided platinum and a non sulfided palladium catalyst for the reductive alkylation of a secondary amine, N ethylcyclohexylamine, with a ketone, cyclohexanone, to produce the tertiary amine, N ethyldicyclohexylamine. Platinum gave a very pcor conversion of the starting secondary amine 27 and a correspondingly low yield of the tertiary amine product 2296 . The undesired reduction of ketone to alcohol was much more pronounced with the platinum than with the platinum sulfide catalyst. The platinum sulfide compared to the palladium resulted in a higner conversion of starting amine 52 vs 44 , and a higher yield of tertiary amine 42 vs 30 .Example 1. N,N Dibutylcyclohexylamine by reductive alkylation of dibutylamine with cyclo flexanone. A. To a l liter Magne Drive trademark autoclave were added 64.6 g 0.50 mole of dibutylamine, 250 ml ca. 2.4 mole of cyclohexanone, and 3,5 g of 5 platinum sulfide on carbon. The autoclave was sealed purged first with nitrogen and then with hydrogen, and hydrogen added to a pressure of 700 psig.The reaction mixture was heated with agitation for 10.3 hr at 45 50 and 500 800 psig, with little or no gas absorption in the last 0.8 hr. The autoclave was cooled and depressurized, and the reaction product was removed. The catalyst was removed by filtration through Celite filter aid. A pure sample of N,N dibutylcyclo hexylamine was obtained by preparative glpc of a portion of the filtrate. Anal. Calcd for C14H31N MW, 211.Found by titration with 0.1 N perchloric acid in acetic acid 212. Analysis of the filtrate by quantitative glpc indicated the presence of 10.9 g 17 yield of recovered dibutylamine, 89 g 84 yield, 101 based on converted dibutylamine of dibutylcyclohexylamine, and 9 reduction of the excess cyclohexanone to cyclohexanol. B. Example 1A was repeated for 0.7 hr at 105 110 and 500 700 psig. Treatement and analysis of the reaction product as in Example lA indicated the presence of 100 g 95 yield of. N,N di butylcyclohexyl . amine end no detectable dibutylamine. C. Example 1A was repeated with 3.5 g of a 5 rhodium sulfide on carbon catalyst for 3.8 hr at 95 100 and 50 800 psig. Treatment and analysis of the reaction product as in Example 1A indicated the presence of 105. g 100 yield of N,N dibutylcyclohexylamine and no detectable dibutylamine. D. A bulk palladium sulfide catalyst was prepared my substantially dissolving 10.0 g of palladium chloride dihydrate in 1 liter alpha 0.3 N hydrochloric acic with stirring and then bubbling in gaseous hydrogen sulfide for 0.2 hr. The black precipitate was filtered, washed with 2 liters of distilled water, then wfth 500 ml of 2 propanol, and then with 500 ml of cyclohexanone. Example lA was repeated with the above palladium sulfide for 7.0 hr at 135 145 and 500 800 psig. Treatment and analysis of the reaction product as in Example 1A indicated the presence of 99 g 94 yield of N,Ndibutylcyclohexylamine and no detectable dibutylamine. E. A bulk ruthenium sulfide catalyst was prepared by bubbling gaseous hydrogen sulfide for 1 hr into a solution of 10.0 g of ruthenium trichloride hydrate RuCl3 1 3 H2O in 1 liter of distilled water. The black precipitate was filtered, washed with 2 lite s of distilled water, then with 500 ml of 2 propnol, and then with 1 liter of cyclohexanone. Example 1A was repeated with the above ruthenium sulfide for 3.3 hr at 75 80 and 500 800 psig. Treatment and analysis of the reaction product as in ExampleIA indicated the presence of 132 g 96 yield of N,N dibutylcyclohexylamine and no detectable dibutylamine. F. Example 1A was reseated with 7.0 g of a 20 molybdenum sulfide on alumina catalyst Girdler T 318 for 4.3 hr at 240 250 and 800 1000 psig. Treatment and analysis of the reaction product as in Example 1A indicated the presence of 94 g 89 yield of N,N dibut ylcyclohexylamine, no detectable dibutylamine, and Al reduction of the excess cyclohexanon to cyclohexarlol. Table 1a Reductive alkylation of dubutylamine with cyclohexaExample Catalyst Temp., pressure, Time, Yield 5 amir No. C psig hr mole lA Pt sulfide 45 50 500 800 10.3c 84d lB Pt sulfide 105 110 500 700 0.7 95 1C Rh sulfide 95 100 500 800 3.8 100 lD Pd sulfide 135 145 530 800 7.0 94 1E Ru sulfide 75 80 500 800 3.3 96 1F Mo sulfide 240 250 800 1000 4.3 89 a. Each experiment was run with 64.6 g 0.50 mole of dibutylamine and 250 ml ca. 2.4 mole of cyclohexanone. There was no detectable dibutylamine except in Example 1 b. N,N dibutylcyclohexylamine.c. Little e or no gas absorption in last 0.8 hr.d. 17 recovery of dibutylamine 101 yield of N,N di butylqycl.ohexylamine based on converted dibutylamine,Example 2. N,N Dibutylisopropylamine by reductive alkyla tion of dibutylamine with acetone To a l liter Magne Drive autoclave were added 64.6 g 0.50 mole of dibutylamine, 250 ml ca. 3.4 mole of acetone, and 3.5 g of a 5 platinum sulfide on carbon catalyst. The autoclave was sealed, purged first wlth nitrogen and then with hydrogen, and hydrogen added to a pressure of 500 psig. The reaction mixture was hefted.with agitation for 2.0 hr at 9 100 and 500 800 psig, with little or no gas absorpticn in the last 0.3 hr.The autoclave was cooled and depressurized, and the reaction product was removed. The catalyst was removed by filtration through Celite filter aid. h portion of the NqN dibutylisopropylamine vas distilled at 191 192 Anal. Clacd for C11H25N MW, 171. Found by titration with f .1 N perchioric acid in acetic acid 172,Example 3. N,N Dibutyl sec butylamine ba reductive alkyla tion of dubutylamine with methyl ethyl ketone. To a l liter Magne Drive autoclave were added 64.6 g 0.50 mole of dibutylamine, 250 ml ca. 2.8 mole of methyl ethyl ketone, and 3.5 g of a 5 platinum sulfide on carbon catalyst. The autoclave was sealed purged first with nitrogen and then with hydrogen, and hydrogen added to a pressure of 500 psig. The reaction mixture was heated with agitation for 1.6 hr at 140 150 and 500 800 psig. The autoclave was cooled and depressurized, end the reaction product was removed. The catalyst was re moved by filtration through Celite filter aid. A pure sample of N,N dibutyl sec butylamine was obtained by prepaative hplc of a portion of the concentrated filtrate. Anal. Called for C12H2yN C, 77.76 H, 14.68 N, 7.56.Found C,77.93 H, 14.93 N, 7.52. Example 4. N,N dibutyl 1,3 dimethylbutylamine by re ductive alkylation of dibutylamine with methyl isobutyl ketone h. To a l liter Magne Drive autoclave were added 64.6 g 0.50 mole of dibutylamine, 250 ml ca, 2.0 mcle of methyl isobutyl ketone, and 3.5 g of a platinum sulfide on carbon catalyst. The autoclave was sealed purged first with nitrogen and then with hydrogen and hydrogen added to a pressure of 500 psig.The reaction mixture was heated with agitation for 5.0 hr at 200 and 500 800 psig. The autoclave was cooled and depressurized, and the reaction product was removes.The catalyst was removed by filtration through Celite filter aid. A pure sample of N,N dibutyl 1,3 dimethylbutylamine was obtained by preparative hplc of a portion of the distilled filtrate. Anal. Calcd for C14H31N C, 78.79 , 14.64 N, 6.56. Found C, 78.82 H, 14.58 N, 6.55. A quantitative glpc analysis of the filtrate indicated the presence of 64 g 60 yield of N,N dibutyl l 3 dimethylbutylamine and no detectable dibutylamine. B. Comparison experiment outside the invention. To a 1.7 liter rocking autoclave were added 129.2 g 1.00 molej of dibutylamine, 430 ml ca. 3.4 mole of methyl isobutyl ketone, and 12.0 g of a 5 palladium on carbon catalyst. The autoclave was sealed, purged first with nitrogen and then with hydrogen and hydrogen added to a pressure of 600 psig. The reaction mixture was heatec with Agitation for 2.6 hr at 190 205 and 600 800 psig, with little or no gas absorption in the last 0.7 hr.The autoclave was cooled and dcpressurized, and the reaction product was removed. The catalyst was removed by filtration through Celite filter aid A quantitative glpc aaalysis of the filtrate indicated the presence of 114 g 54 yield of N,N dibutyl 1,3 dimethylbutylamine and no detectable dibutylamine.Example 5. N Ethyldicyclohexylamine by reductive alkyla tion of N ethylcyclohexylamine with cyclo hexanone. A. To a l liter egn Drive autoclave were added 63.6 g 0.50 mole of N ethylcyclohexylamine, 5ss.0 g 0.55 inole of cyclohexanone, 15 ml of methanol, and 0.5 g 3f a 5 platinum sulfide on carbon catalyst. The autoclave was sealed, purged first with nitrogen and then with hydrogen, and hydrogen added to a pressure of 500 psig. The reaction mixture was heated with agitation for 7.5 hr at 1600 and 600 775 psig. The autoclave was cooled and depressurized, and the reaction product was removed. The catalyst was removed by filtration through Celite filter aid.A quantitative glpc analysis of the filtrate indicated the presence of 30.3 g 48 yield of recovered N ethylcyclohexylamine, 44.5 g 42 yield, 81 based on converted N ethylcyclohexylamine of N ethyldicyclohexylamine, 8.6 g 16 yield of recovered cyclohexanone, and 19.0 g 35 yield based on cyclohexanone of cyclohexanol. B. Comparison experiment outside the invenExample 5A was repeated with 0 5 g of 596 platinum on carbon as catalyst for 7.5 hr at 1600 and 600 755 psigTreatment and analysis of the reaction product as InExample 5A indicated the presence of 46.7 g 73 yield of recovered N ethylcyclohexylamine, 23.4 g 22 yield, 81 based on converted N ethylcyclohexylamine of Nethyldicylohexylamine, 8.6 g 16 yield of recovered cyclohexanone, and 33.8 g 61 yield based on cyclohexanone of cyclohexanol. C. Comparison experiment outside the invention. Example 5B was repeated with 0.5 g of 5 palladium on carbon as catalyst for 7.5 hr at 1600 and 615 760 psig. Treatment and analysis of the reaction product as in Example 5B indicated the presence of 35.7 g 56 yield of recovered N ethylcyclohexylamine, 31.7 g 30 yield, 68 based on converted N ethylcyclohexylamine of Nethyldicylohexylamine, 12.6 23 yield of recovered cyclohexanone, and 18.7 g 35 yield based on cyclohexanone of cyclohexanol. Table 2. Reductive alkylation of N ethylcyclohexylamine with cyclohexanone Yield, mole Re 8 amine b recoveredExample covered actual based on cyclohex cyclohex No. Catalyst 2 amine conv. anone anol c 5A Pt sulfide 48 42 81 16 35 53 Pt 73 22 81 16 61 5C Pd 56 .0 68 23 35 a. Each experiment was run in a 1 liter Magne Drive auto cave with 63.6 g 0.50 mole of N ethylcyclohexylamine 5.0 g 0.55 mole of cyclohexanone, 115 ml cf methanol ard 0.5 g of a 5 supported on carbon catalyst for 7.5 hr at 160O and in the renge of 600 760 psig.b. N ethyldicyclohexylamine.c. Based on starting cyclohexanone.