# Immunisation agent, a method of preparing the same and use thereof for producing antisera.

## Abstract
The invention relates to an agent for immunisation which contains a particulate complex between hyaluronic acid and a proteinous antigen. The invention further relates to a method of preparing this particulate complex and to a method of producing antisera by injection of the particulate complex into a host animal.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An immunisation agent containing proteinous antigen, wherein th antigen is present in the form of a particulate complex with hyaluronic acid. 2. An agent according to claim 1, wherein the complex is a co precipitate of the antigen and hyaluronic acid. 3. An agent according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the particulatecompre has a particle size of from about 0.1 p to 200 p. 4. An agent according to claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the particulat complex is suspended in a physiologically acceptable, especially aqueou medium. 5. An agent according to claim 1, 2, 3 or 4, further comprising physiologically acceptable, non antigenic protein. 6. An agent according to any one of claims 1 to 5,. wherein th particulate complex contains hyaluronic acid and antigen in a weight ratio c from about 1 2 to about 1 20. 7. An agent according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the antigen. an allergen or a vaccine. 8. A method of preparing an immunization agent containing protein antigen in the form of a particulate complex with hyaluronic acid, comprisir the steps of reacting hyaluronic acid with the respective antigenic protein the presence of an aqueous reaction medium, lowering the pH value of tE reaction mixture until a finely divided precipitate of the desired complex formed, and recovering the precipitate from the reaction mixture. 9. A method according to claim 8, wherein the precipitate formed treated with an inert organic solvent that can be mixed with water. 10. A method of producing antisera of a high titer, comprising the ste of injecting an agent according to claim 1 into a host animal, taking bloc from the host animal when the desired amount of antibodies has been forme and working up the serum in conventional manner.

## Description
immunisation agent, a method of preparing the same and use thereof for producing antisera. The present invention relates to immunisation agents and prepara tions containing a particulate complex between hyaluronic acid and antigenic proteins. The invention further relates to a method of preparing such agents and to the use thereof for preparing antisera. In this context the term antigenic proteins refers to all proteins capable of inducing the production of antibodies in a host animal, such as allergens, vaccines, cell antigens, etc.. It is known that injection of suitable amounts of antigenic proteins into humans and animals gives rise to production of the corresponding antibodies thereby creating an immune defense against the respective antigen.By injection of antigens it is thus possible to obtain immunity against various allergies and deseases. When injecting only the respective antigens the immune response is, however, comparatively weak and the effect is comparatively short.This i.a. means that the treatment has to be repeated several times. e.g.up to thirty times or more for allergens. Attempts have been made to eliminate these drawbacks by combining the antigens with various adjuvants.Typical examples of such adjuvants are Freund s adjuvant and aluminum hydroxide. Further, conjugates of antigens with certain polysaccharides are known see for example British patent specification 1,174,854 . Although these adjuvants contribute to an improved immune response they have severa.drawbacks limiting the practical utility thereof, and the purpose of the present invention is in the first place to eliminate or reduce these drawbacks. It has according to the invention surprisingly been found tha injection of a complex of an antigen with hyaluronic acid which as such is a a non antigenic substance naturally occurring in the body gives rise to a strong and long lasting immune response already at very small doses of the antigen, if the complex is used in particulate form. When injecting such a particulate complex the antigen in question is released slowly depot effect and is resorbed extremely well. Further, non desired side effects at the time oi immunisation are avoided, and the site of the injection is not harrnful y effected. A solution containing an antigen and hyaluronic acid does not preser the advantageous properties of the particulate complex according to the invention. Examples of allergens, which can form a particulate complex with hyaluronic acid in accordance with the invention, are serum albumins.foodstuff allergens, mould extracts, animal epitel extracts, caracein extracts, various pollen extracts, etc. Examples of vaccines, which can be complex bonded to hyaluronic acid in a corresponding manner, are i.a pertussis, tetanus, etc. According to the invention the complex antigen hyaluronic acid has the form of a finely divided powder, which is suited for injection in the form of a suspension in any suitable physiologically acceptable liquid medium. The particulate complex preferably has a particle size of from 0.1 to 200 , especially from 1 to 100 p, and in particular from 5 to 60 p. The complex can be regarded as a difficultly soluble salt between the antigenic protein and thz hyaluronic acid. According to another aspect of the invention the particulate complex antigen hyaluronic acid is prepared by reacting hyaluronic acid with the respective antigen in an aqueous reaction medium, lowering the pH of the reaction mixture until the desired antigen hyaluronic acid complex falls out as a finely divided precipitate, and recovering the precipitated complex. When necessary, the precipitate is washed so that the desired complex will be essentially free from free antigen. In order to facilitate the precipitation a physiologically acceptable, non antigenic protein such as, for example, albumir from the animal including man to be immunised can be added. According to a preferred embodiment of the method according to the invention the precipitate obtained is treated with an aqueous solvent, fo example a lower alkanol such as methanol or ethanol. It has surprisingly bee found that such treatment even more improves the properties of the complex especially by improving the depot effect. After this treatment the precipitant is worked up and dried in any suitable manner. The hyaluronic acid used as the starting material preferably has molecular weight of at least 750,000, and it is preferred to use a salt thereon for example the sodium salt. The relative amounts of the components of th complex are preferably adjusted such that the dry particulate comply contains hyaluronic acid and antigen in a weight ratio of from 1 2 to 1 20, e. from 1 2 to 1 12, in particular from 1 3 to 1 9. If a non antigenic proteins used for facilitating the precipitation of the complex, the same may conta up to about 50 percent by weight of this protein. An especially suitable type hyaluronic acid is the one described in our U.S. patent No. 4,151,973 a having the following characteristics a mean molecular weight of at lea about 750,000, a protein content lower than 0.5 percent by weight, a U absorbance for a 1 solution of the sodium salt lower than 3.0 at 257 nm a lower than 2.0 at 280 nm, and a kinetic viscosity greater than 1000 centisto for a 1 solution of sodium salt in physiological buffer. As mentioned above injection of the particulate complex according to the invention results in a very strong and long lasting effect already for very low doses of the antigen, these doses being lower than when using only the antigen in question. The dosage, which varies from antigen to antigen, is chosen with regard to the needs and desires in the individual case. Generally microgram amounts are sufficient, for example 0.5 pg to 1,000 pg of the complex per injection corresponding to, for example, 0.3 to 600 pg of antigenic protein and 0.2 to 250 pg of hyaluronic acid per injection . According to another aspect of the invention the novel particulate complex of an antigen and hyaluronic acid is used for preparing antisera containing a high titer of antibodies against the respective antigen. Such antisera can be used for e.g. immunological determinations. The invention thus also relates to a method for producing high titer antisera by injecting the particulate complex according to the invention into a host animal, taking blood from the host animal when essential amounts of antibodies have been formed, and preparing the serum in conventional manner. The invention will be illustrated further in the following Examples which, however, in no way are intended to restrict the scope of the invention. The solution of hyaluronic acid used in the Examples had the following properties molecular weight 3.7 x 106, limiting viscosity 2.380 to 2.470 ml g, protein content 0.02 . Example I 10 ml of a solution of hyaluronic acid in 0.1M NaCI 2.5 mg ml were diluted to 100 ml with 0.1M NaCI. 100 ml of dog albumin solution 1 mg ml were added while stirring. Diluted acetic acid solution, prepared by diluting 0.5 ml of a 5 acetic acid solution to 20 ml with distilled water, was added dropwise while agitating with a magnetic stirrer until pH 4.2, the complex precipitating in the form of a fine precipitate. The precipitated complex was centrifugated and washed once with water. After dissolution in 0.1 Na2CO3 20 ml the complex was reprecipi tated by acidifying to pH 4.45 with diluted acetic acid solution as above. The suspension obtained was sprayed into ethanol 99.5 while stirring. The precipitate was left in ethanol for 2 to 24 hours, depending on the desired degree of dissolution. Finally, the product was filtered off, dried in vacuum at room temperature, and freeze dried as single unit packs. Yield 30 to 100 mg of a dry, finely divided powder which is difficultly soluble in 0.9 sodium chloride solution and which contains hyaluronic acid and dog albumin in a weight ratio of 1 6. Example 2 The procedure of Example 1 was repeated using an egg albumin solution instead of the dog albumin solution. The egg albumin hyaluronic acid complex obtained consisted of a dry, finely divided powder, which was difficultly soluble in 0.9 sodium chloride solution and contained hyaluronic acid and egg albumin in a weight ratio of 1 4.6. Example 3 en DrCT A preparation for immunisation suitable for e.g. subcutaneous injection was prepared as follows 150 ml of a sterile filtered birch pollen extract Spectralge available from Pharmacia AB, Uppsala, Sweden containing 1.8 mg extract ml were mixed with 150 ml of hyaluronic solution 0.25 mg ml and 75 ml distilled water. 0.04M acetic acid solution was added under agitation until the pH was 3.70 and the hyaluronic acid birch pollen extract precipitated as a fine precipitate. Ethanol 99.5 was then added under agitation until the ethanol concentration was 30 . Agitation was continued for 4 h at 670C, and the suspension was then filtrated.The filtered precipitate was washed several times with distilled water, then suspended in a 3 mannitol solution and freeze dried into single dose packs. Yield 80 100 mg of a particulate complex 45 70 based on protein, 670 based on hyaluronic acid , which is difficultly soluble in 0.9 saline n and contains hyaluronic acid and birch pollen extract in a weight ratio of 1 2.6. Example 4 A suspension suitable for injection, especially subcutaneous injection, of the particulate hyaluronic acid dog albumin complex prepared according to Example 1, was prepared as follows 13.6 g of the dried complex according to Example 1 was suspended in 1 ml of 0.9 NaCl plus 0.05 Tweet 20 Solution A . The suspension was left for one hour at 230C and then for 20 hours for 40C. The suspension was centrifugated and the supernatant was discarded. The recovered precipitate was washed with 200 pl of Solution A and resuspended in 3 ml of the same solution. Suspensions for injection of the particulate egg albumin hyaluronic acid complex prepared according to Example 2 and of the particulate birch pollen hyaluronic acid complex prepared according to Example 3 were prepared in the same manner. Example 5 A suspension for injection, prepared in accordance with Example 4, of the particulate dog serum albumin hyaluronic acid complex HA DSA was in immunisation tests on rabbit compared with a different preparation of dog serum albumin DSA , namely DSA dissolved in sodium chloride solution DSAsalt . Both preparations were administered with the same amount of DSA, namely 100 pg 0.5 ml. In the test the respective preparation was injected once subcutaneously under the neck skin of white New Zealand rabbits, with five animals per preparation. Serum samples were taken before the immunisation and 5, 15, 25 and 40 days after the same. The samples were examined with regard to anti DSA antibodies by passive hemagglutination. Two types of red cells were sensitized with DSA by glutaric aldehyde coupling, viz. Guinea pig cells GPC and human group 0 cells HRC . The test results are given in Table I below. As can be seen the DSAsodium chloride solution did not induce any formation of antibodies. In contrast thereto the DSA complex according to the invention produced a strong response with high titers, which furthermore remained over the entire test period. Table I Immunogenicity of two different preparations of dog serum albumin DSA in rabbits. Anti DSA antibodies were measured by passive hemagglutination before and up to 40 days after the immunisation.EMI5.1 tb Type SEP of SEP Animal SEP Titers SEP of SEP anti DSA SEP antibodies tb DSA SEP pre SEP NO. SEP Before SEP 5 SEP days SEP 15 SEP days SEP 25 SEP days SEP 40 SEP days tb paration tb SEP GPC SEP HRC SEP GPC SEP HRC SEP GPC SEP HRC SEP CPC SEP HRC SEP CPC SEP HRC tb HA DSA SEP 1 SEP K 1 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 256 SEP 256 SEP 64 SEP 64 SEP 32 SEP 32 tb SEP K 2 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 32 SEP 32 SEP 16 SEP 16 SEP 8 SEP 2 tb SEP K 5 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 128 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 5 tb SEP K 6 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 32 SEP 32 SEP 32 SEP 16 SEP 16 SEP tb SEP K 7 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 64 SEP 64 SEP SEP SEP 16 SEP tb DSA SEP K 55 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb saline SEP K 85 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP . SEP tb SEP K 0661 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP tb SEP IC 85S SEP O SEP O SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP SEP 3 SEP tb SEP I SEP K 86 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP SEP tb 1 DSA hyaluronic acid complex according to the invention. The titers are given as reciprocals of the highest serum dilution giving hemagglutination. All sera were tested on DSA sensitized red cells from Guinea pigs GPC and humans HRC . Example 6 The test procedure of Example 5 was repeated on rats using three different DSA preparations, viz. 1 DSA in phys. saline, 2 phys. saline solution of DSA and HA, and 3 a suspension of the particulate DSA HA complex of the present invention. In all three cases the rats were immunised on days 3 and 13, each time with a dose of 10 pg DSA. Anti DSA antibody levels were measured on days 0, 13 and 27. The test results, which were expressed as log 2 titer mean of 6 rats , are reported in Table II below. It can be seen that the present particulate DSA dA complex resulted in considerably increased and extended antibody titers, not only compared to the DSA saline sol ..icn, but also compared to the solution containing both DSA and HA. Table II Immunicity of DSA preparations in rat Passive hemagglutination values expressed as log 2 titers mean of 6 animals .EMI6.1 tb Type SEP of SEP DSA SEP Anti DSA SEP antibodies tb preparation SEP Day SEP 0 SEP Day SEP 13 SEP Day SEP 27 tb DSA saline SEP 5 SEP 4.17 SEP 5.83 tb DSA HA tb solution SEP 5.I7 SEP 5 SEP S.17 SEP tb Suspension SEP of tb particulate SEP 5 SEP 5.33 SEP 1 SEP 4.G7 SEP tb complex SEP of tb DSA HA tb Example 7 In order to simulate therapeutic conditions in humans tests were made with ovalbumin OA primed rats as follows Pigmented Lister rats were used with groups of 9 animals per test group. The rats were pretreated with a single dose of 1 pg OA in Freunds complete adjuvant. Three weeks later a single dose of the tested preparations was given.Serum samples were taken before the pre treatment, immediately before the treatment with the test preparationss and one week thereafter. The response on the treatment was measured by homologeous passive hemagglutination and with RAST on rat. Radio Allergo Sorbent Test see e.g.Bennich et al, Evaluation of basic serum 3gE levels and the JgE antibody response in the rat by radio immuno assays, Imm. Rev. Vol. 41, p. 261 287, 1978. The results of the tests are given in Tables III and IV below, whereinTable III indicates the titers of hemagglutinating anti ovalbumin antibodies IgG IgA IgM , whereas the anti ovalbumin antibody titers of the IgE class are indicated in Table IV. Table IIIEMI7.1 tb SEP Anti OA titer SEP SEP mean SEP value tb Type SEP of SEP OA SEP number SEP before SEP immediately SEP 1 SEP weak SEP after tb SEP priming SEP before SEP traetment SEP tratment tb OA HA SEP omplex tb SEP 100 g SEP 8 SEP 6 SEP 33 SEP 336 SEP tb phys. SEP saline SEP 9 SEP i SEP 4 SEP 21 SEP 11 tb Table IV Titer of circulating anti ovalbumin antibodies of the IgE type. Adjuvant effect for particulate ovalbumin hyaluronic acid complex Treat in rats primed Imm. with ovalbumin.EMI7.2 tb SEP x SEP tb SEP Titer SEP expressed SEP as SEP pulses SEP min.x SEP tb SEP week SEP 0 SEP week SEP 3 SEP SEP week SEP 4 SEP tb OA HAcomplex SEP 643E SEP Im SEP n SEP SEP 12763 SEP Treatm. SEP 12427 SEP tb 100 SEP g SEP tb SEP OA HA complex SEP 4287 SEP 12637 SEP 14810 tb SEP 14 SEP l g SEP tb SEP phys.saline SEP ì SEP 4936 SEP SEP 9110 SEP 55873 SEP tb x Mean of 9 rats.