# Apparatus for removing oil from the surface of a body of water.

## Abstract
Apparatus including a flexible, elongated chamber 70 having an open submerged front for receiving water and oil thereinto during relative movement between the chamber and the body of water, at least one cable 61 for folding the chamber, said cable being slidably connected to one extrem ity of the chamber 62, 63 and fixedly connected to the other extremity of the chamber 64 , and two inclinable ramps 103 for launching and retrieving the chamber with a vessel 1 .

## Claims
C L A I M S 1. Apparatus for removing oil from the surface of a body of water, characterized in that it includes the combination of an at least partially flexible, elongated chamber having an open, at least partially submerged front for receiving water and oil thereinto during relative movement between the chamber and the body of water at least one cable for folding the chamber, said cable being slidably connected te at least one extremity of the chamber and fixedly connected to the other extremity of the chamber and at least two inclinable ramps for launching and retrieving the chamber with a vessel of opportunity 2. Apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that the cable is slidably connected to at least one extremity of the chamber and fixedly connected to the other extremity cf the chamber. 3. Apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the cable is slidably connected to the front of the chamber and doubled back from the slidable connection at the opposite extremity to the slidable connection at the front of the chamber. 4. Apparatus according to claim 1, 2 or 3, characterized by more than one cable for folding the chamber. 5. Apparatus according to any one of claims 1 4, characterized by a spreader bar for applying tension to the cables at the front of the chamber. 6. Apparatus according to any one of claim 1 5, characterized by a framework for maintaining the front of the chamber open, wherein the cable s is are connected to the framework at the front of the chamber and connected to the opposite extremity of the chamber, one of said connections being fixed connections whilst the other is a slidable connection. 7. Apparatus according to any one of claims 1 6, characterized in that each of said two inclinable ramps comprises at least two segments united by a joint, wherein the chamber resides in a folded position on one segment of each of the two ramps and the other segment of each ramp is in an elevated position. 8. Apparatus according to any one of claims 1 7, characterized by means for lowering the elevated segments, and means for inclining the ramps and lowering the chamber into the water alongside the vessel, wherein each of the segments of the ramps comprises at least two elongated members connected by a series of rotatable cylinders. 9. Apparatus according to claim 8, characterized in that the means for lowering the elevated segments is a hydraulic piston, and the means for inclining the ramps is a jack.

## Description
AtARAImUS FOR OViNG GIL FROWN r SURFACE OF A BODY OF WAVER The present invention relates to apparatus for removing oil from the surface of a body of water and more particularly relates to an oil spill clean up kit that can convert many kinds of vessels into temporary skimmers in a relatively short time.It permits more rapid response to oil spills which occur in remote areas. Such kits are storable on drilling platforms, for example, and if a spill occurs in the vicinity, work boats may be transformed into skimmers that immediately begin cleaning up the spill. An apparatus cf the above type is subject to our Netherlands application No. 7711932. Object of the present invention is to provide, for use in an apparatus for removing oil from the surface of a body of water, a foldable sock skimmer and means for deploying such a skimmer, and launching and retrieving such a skimmer with a vessel, boat or platform as indicated above. In one embodiment of the present invention, means is proviaed for folding or deploying this or similar skimmers principally characterized by an at least partislly flexible, elongated chamber having an open, at least partially submerged front for receiving water and oil thereinto during relative movement between the chamber and the body of water. In particular, the folding or deploying means is at least one cable which is slidably connected to at least one extremity of the chamber and fixedly connected to the other extremity of the chamber.One or more slidable connections intermediate the connections at the extremities of the chamber, facilitate folding the chamber accordian style. In another separate embodiment of the present invention, means is provided for launching and or retrieving this or similar skimmers principally characterized by an at least partially flexible, elongated chamber having an open, at least partially submerged front for receiving water and oil thereinto during relative movement between the chamber and the body of water and at least two inclinable ramps for launching and retrieving the chamber with a vessel. Dreferably, each of the two inclinable ramps is composed of at least two segments united by a joint, one of the segments being in an elevated position to cradle the skimmer when the skimmer is being transported and in a lowered position when the skimmer is being launched or retrieved. The invention will now further be described with reference to the accompanying drawing, showing by way of example preferent embodiments of the present invention. Figure 1 is a view of a skimmer and towing vessel in operation. Figures 2 and 3 show a comparison of the prior art with the present invention. Figure 4 is a view of the rotatable bumper of the present invention. Figures 5a, Sb and 5c show a foldable skimmer and in particular folding sequence for larger skimmers. Figures 6a, 6b and 6c show a folding sequence for smlll foldable skimmers. Figures 7 and 8 are plan views of alternate cable lay outs. Figures 9 and 10 are frame plan views depicting respectively, cables attached to spreader and cables attached to lift ring. Figure 11 schematically depicts a series of steps A F for launching and retrieving the skimmer. Figure 1 provides an overall view of the present invention in use with a conventional work boat 1. Skimmer 2 which has the appearance of a flattened sock with an open front end is maintained open by floating frame 3 and with floats 4. The frame is attached to the work boat by lines 5 which connect with the boat well ahead of the postlon n1ongs de the boat where the skimmer is deployed. With the lines placed forward and with special bumper the motion of the skimmer is effectively uncoupled from the motion of the boat, thereby allowing the skimmer te move freely up and down, pitch, roll, etc.In the prior art where a skimmer or boom is deployed alongside a vessel by a rigid connection, the motion of the vessel is translated into the skimmer or boom, causing it to dip beneath the water or raise above the water and in either case permitting oil to pass thereby, thus hindering effective removal of the oil fromtne water. Figures 2 and 3 show how the self floated skimmer of the present invention remains uncoupled from the roll motion of the vessel 7 while the skimmer of the prior art permits the oil boom 50 supported by outrigger 52 to raise out of the water 51 or sink into the water if the roll were reversed , thereby causing oil to escape. A bumper 32 is deployable between the inboard float 33 of the skimmer of the present invention and the vessel 1 to prevent damage to the vessel by the skimmer.Note how the rotatable bumper 32 acts as a hinge to uncouple the motions. Figure 3 shows how the rotatable bumper 32 permits the float 33 to raise up ana maintain the desired water level even though the vessel side 34 is falling. This ability to translate float and vessel is important in preventing oil loss between the skimmer and the vessel. Clearly, impact damage to the skimmer or the vessel is also prevented by such a bumper Oil lines 6 from the rear part of the skimmer pass oil into the container 7 which is employed both as a device for separating oil and water from the skimmer, and also as a container for the skimmer and power components used to deploy the skimmer.Oil lines 8 extend from container 7 to a bag 9 towable behind the work boat 1 as a convenient means for storing separated oil, especially in the instance of larger spills which require extra storage space. A more detailed disclosure of an embodiment of the skimmer 2 as well as of container 7 including its use for separating oil and water has been described in our Netherlands application o. 771132. While the skimmer of the present invention is preferably employed alongside a moving vessel, it is apparent that it may also be used in a stationary position in streams or currents for oil collection purposes with or without a vessel. Also, it may be deployed between hulls of a catamaran vessel. Manifestly, the present invention is useful also for collecting floating debris and floating liquid pollutants other than oil. Where possible, multiple skimmers may be deployed on one or both sides of the vessel in use. The container is useful also with other water oil separation techniques known in the art. Similarly, the wave damping part of the skimmer of this invention can be used separately to reduce wave turbulence in front of other to pews of skimmers. Folding of a large offshore type foldable skimmer is shown in Figures 5a, Sb and 5c. To recover the skimmer 2 after a skimming operation, a winch 60 mounted on the framework 3 supported by floats 4 is used to pull in fold up cables 61 cable broadly is interpreted to include lines, ropes, belts, etc. . The cables 61 run from the winch 60 through D rings or fairleads 62 on the framework 3, through two or more D rings 63 on the fabric of skimmer 2, and are attached to D rings 64 near the rear of the skimmer. Drawing up on the cables 61 pulls the rear forward while the intermediate D rings 63 hold up the tops of the desired folds 65. In effect, the skimmer folds up accordian style . To deploy the skimmer, tension is released on the cables 61 and a slight forward motion of the tow vessel 1 straightens out the folds 65. Folding of a smaller skimmer 70 is shown in Figures 6a, 6b and 6c. Cable 61 is pulled by a crane or davit not shown .From a spreader bar 71, the cable is passed through D rings 63 and affixed to the ID ring 64 closest to the end cr rear of the skimmer. Fizzle 6b shows the desired folds beginning te be formed with the skimmer in a partially folded disposition.Figure 6 shows the skimmer lifted clear of the water by the crane or davit. There are alternative ways of implementing this fold up technique as shown in Figures 7 10. Cables can be located on the sides or bottom instead of the top, or the cables can be located in two or three places on the skimmer. One cable or multiple cables could be used. Grommets or fairleads or pulleys could be used in place of D rings or triangular rings. The number of D rings used depends on the allowable load on each and the number of folds desired. For example, three sets of rings may be used on S skimmer 42 feet long so that each fold is about 6 feet high and would not hang below framework floats of that height.A small triple drum winch may be used te pl ll ir the cables, or multiple single drum winches may be used, or in smaller models the cables may be attached to a spreader bar or lift ring as shown. Lifting on the bar or ring with a crane or davit folds the fabric together and then lifts the entIre assembly out of the water. In Figure 7 atriple drum winch 80 is used to pull cables 81, 82 and 83 through multiple D rings 84. The drums of the winch are preferably of ecual diameter. The cables are attached to the terminal ID rings. As shown in Figure 8, cables 85, 86 and 87 slide through the terminal rings 88, double back to frame 3 and are affixed thereto at points 89, 90 and 100, respectively. Figure 9 shows a spreader bar 101 which may be employed to pull cables 81, 82 and 83 through D rings or fair leads 84. Alternatively, as shown in Figure 10, a lift ring may be substituted for spreader bar 101 element 84 is shown as fairleads in Figure 10 and as D rings in Figure 9 . Of course, the purpose and necessity for folding the skimmer and this applies to other similar equipment is to reduce the size of the load to be lifted onboard a support vessel.Folding in this manner makes a neat, compact, nearly rigid load which is much easier to handle and store than the fully deployed skimmer fabric. In Figure 11 is shown a sequence of steps A to F for launching and retrieving skimmer 2. Inclinable ramp 103 rests on top of skimmer container 7 and is formed of two segments connected by joint lolt. Upwardly extending segment 105 helps secure the skimmer in place in the at ready position, step A. The second step B for launching the skimmer is initiated by activating hydraulic piston 106 to lower segment 105 to a position such that it extends over the side of vessel 1. Next, step C, the entire ramp is inclined by means of jack 10T, and the skimmer is allowed to slide towards the water off segment 108 and onto segment 105 which is now adjacent the side of the vessel. During the winching down operation of step D, the skimmer is held securely by a cable 109. In step E, the skimmer is in the water and ready to be turned 900 to assume a skimming position alongside the vessel. Recovery of the skimmer, as depicted by step F in Figure 11, involves reversing the order of the preceding steps.