# TRANSMISSION LINE TERMINATOR FOR OFF CHIP DRIVER

## Claims
Abschluß einer Signalübertragungsleitung für eine Treiberschaltung auf einem ersten Halbleiterchip, der durch zumindest eine Quelle für eine Spannung V

## Description
This invention relates to signal transmission line terminators for off chip driver circuits. In conventional designs, the terminator resistors for off chip driver circuits are located on the same chip with the receiver or driver circuits. Decoupling capacitors, if any, are located on the module or card on which the chips with the terminator resistors are placed. Examples of the placement of a receiver circuit or driver circuit on the same chip with terminator resistors are described in U.S. Patent 3,832,575, entitled Data Bus Transmission Line Termination Circuit , and in U.S. Patent 4,228,369, entitled Integrated Circuit Interconnection Structure Having Precision Terminating Resistors . Although there is a saving in processing cost and other advantages in placing terminator resistors on active circuit chips having receiver and driver circuits, a switching noise ΔI problem arises as the driver circuits are operated at the extremely high switching rates of high performance computers. The current pulses of the data signals issuing from the driver circuits encounter significant inductive reactance in traversing the distance between the terminator resistors and the power supply return line. The resulting reactive voltage transients cause substantial ΔI noise which can produce false data or errors in the functioning of the logic circuits or storage devices connected to the same return line. The problem of supplying current to off chip drivers operating at extremely high switching rates, which precludes obtaining current from more distant power supplies due to the inductance of the interconnecting lines, is addressed in an article Decoupling Capacitor Implementation Scheme by I. Feinberg et al., published in the IBM Technical Disclosure Bulletin, Vol. 22, No. 11, April 1980, p. 4919. Terminator resistors and ΔI noise problems are not discussed. Accordingly, there is a need to terminate a transmission line from an off chip driver in such a way that extremely fast switching rates may be realized without the introduction of objectionable ΔI noise. For solving this problem, the invention as claimed in Claim 1 provides a signal transmission line terminator for an off chip driver circuit comprising a resistor and a decoupling capacitor for each voltage source, placed on one chip, separate from the driver chip, in such a way that the path inductance between the resistor and each capacitor is reduced to a minimum. This arrangement greatly reduces ΔI terminator noise and significantly enhances system performance, especially at the extremely high data switching rates encountered in high performance computers. In the sequel, an embodiment of the invention is described with reference to two drawings. Push pull drivers, characterized by a plurality of voltage sources V The switching current from a state of the art push pull driver chip flows via its terminator resistor through the power pins to the module decoupling capacitors or board decoupling capacitors, as the case may be, and to the respective voltage sources V In accordance with the present invention, the aforementioned limiting factor is removed by use of a unique decoupling capacitor terminator resistor chip in which capacitors and resistors are merged, thereby minimizing the path inductance therebetween. The basic design is shown in Fig. 1 in which decoupling capacitors C1 and C2 are formed with terminator resistor R1 on the same chip 1 separate from the chip not shown on which the push pull driver circuit is located. The two chips normally are mounted on, and connected together through, a module. One terminal of each of capacitors C1 and C2 is connected to a respective voltage source V A preferred embodiment of the chip 1 structure of Fig. 1 is shown in the Fig. 2 cross section. The same designations are used in Fig. 2 for the corresponding elements of Fig. 1. Resistor R1 consists of n diffusion 3 in P chip substrate 2. Silicon dioxide layer 4 is apertured to allow contacts 5 and 6 to opposite ends of resistor R1. Contact 5 is connected to ground member 10 which also forms a common plate of capacitors C2 and C1. Additional dielectric layer 7 separates member 10 from the opposing plates 8 and 9 of capacitors C2 and C1, respectively. Plates 8 and 9, in turn, are connected to voltage sources V It should be noted that the connection 5 between resistor R1 and capacitors C2 and C1 is of minimal length less than a micrometer and of negligible inductive reactance at the switching speeds of high performance machines so that ΔI noise is substantially eliminated, as previously explained.