# Wobbling swing driven image sensor

## Claims
Vorrichtung zum Herausgreifen ankommenden Bildlich tes, mit einer Festkörperbildsensoreinrichtung 10 zum Herausgreifen des Bildlichtes gemäß einer Zeilensprung Abtasttechnik zum Erzeugen von Signalladungen, die ein aus Teilbildern bestehendes Vollbild darstellen, wobei die Bildsensoreinrichtung 10 aufweist einen Sensorabschnitt 50 , der mit wenigstens einer linearen Zellenanordnung P versehen ist, die Zeilen p mit einer bestimmten photoempfindlichen Fläche hat, um das Bildlicht zu empfangen sowie Ladungen entsprechend dem Bildlicht zu erzeugen und zu speichern, und wenigstens einen Übertragungsabschnitt C , der parallel zur wenigstens einen linearen Zellenanordnung P angeordnet ist und sich entlang der Zellenanordnung P erstreckt, um die in dem Sensorabschnitt 50 gespeicherten Ladungen auszulesen und zu übertragen, sowie eine Schwingansteuereinrichtung 28, 100 , die mit der Bildsensoreinrichtung 10 gekoppelt ist, um eine erste Vibration bzw. Schwingung an die Bildsensoreinrichtung so anzulegen, daß jede Pixelzelle zu wechselseitig verschiedenen Abtastpositionen verschoben wird, um Licht in einer Vielzahl von Teilbildperioden, die in einer Vollbildperiode enthalten sind, herauszugreifen, dadurch gekennzeichnet, daß die Schwingansteuereinrichtung 28, 100 gleichzeitig an die Bildsensoreinrichtung 28, 100 eine zweite Vibration mit einer höheren Frequenz als die der ersten Vibration und längs der gleichen Richtung wie die erste Vibration anlegt, so daß jede Pixelzelle vibriert, während Licht in jeder Abtastposition jeder Teilbildperiode herausgegriffen wird, wodurch die effektive Zellenfläche des Pixels in jeder Abtastposition im wesentlichen gedehnt wird, um die in jeder Teilbildperiode erzeugte Moiré Störung zu verringern.

## Description
The present invention relates, in general, to a solid state image sensing device and, in particular, to a CCD image sensor which is swing driven to periodically shift in position relative to incident image light. In a conventional solid state image sensor such as an interline transfer type CCD referred to as an IT CCD hereinafter , it is easy to understand that the number of picture elements or pixels must be increased to obtain a high resolution video image with the interlaced scanning technique. However, such a conventional IT CCD with only the standard number of pixels has the largest chip size of common LSIs. If the number of pixels is simply increased in such a CCD to satisfy the need for high integration, its chip size is further increased. On the other hand, in order to increase the number of pixels without changing the present CCD chip size, the integration of pixels must be greatly enhanced e.g., more than four times . With this approach it is technically difficult to prepare such a high density CCD. Even if development of improved fabrication techniques allows the manufacture of the CCD in the near future, the circuit configuration for driving the CCD becomes complicated and power consumption becomes high, thus entailing new problems. In order to solve the problem of the number of pixels vs packing density, the CCD may be periodically displaced relative to incident image light, thereby picking up a high resolution image. In two field periods A and B constituting one frame period in the NTSC system, when the CCD is swung at an amplitude corresponding to 1 2 the pixel pitch PH such that pixels are positioned in different sampling positions along a horizontal direction, the spatial sampling points along the horizontal direction can be increased. Therefore, the horizontal resolution of the one frame image can be substantially doubled even if a conventional low resolution IT CCD chip is used. Document EP A2 0083240 describes a high resolution solid state image sensor in which a swing image pick up technique is used. According to Figure 10 of the latter reference, a swing image pick up technique can be used in a high resolution solid state image sensor. To increase the resolution, the ineffective area of the cell of an interline change transfer device is reduced by moving the centre of an electrode opening along zig zig locus so as to have the horizontal swing component and the vertical swing component as well. The swinging frequency of the vertical component is selected higher than that of the horizontal component. Frame image resolution is improved but the problem of moire interference is not addressed. With the above swing image pickup technique, however, the resolution of the reproduced image can be improved but the generation of moire cannot be reliably suppressed. This moire generation results in noise, which reduces the quality of the image. The frequency of the moire effect becomes nearly zero near the threshold of the Nyquist rate causing a rough noise pattern in the reproduced image. Furthermore, when field images picked up by this swing image pickup technique are composed and a single frame image is constructed, the phases of the moire in both field images are mutually reversed so the effect of the noise is increased. Also, because the CCD chip is physically vibrated in relation to the incident image light, as was described above, a moire effect is transferred onto the screen, which was not produced with the prior art image sensor which picks up images in a stationary state. This transfer of the moire effect onto the screen results in deterioration of the image quality and, accordingly, the generation of the moire effect is a major problem with fixed imaging apparatus, which perform swing image pickup. It is, therefore, an object of the present invention to provide a new and improved image sensing device capable of attaining higher resolution and better image quality by keeping the moire effect to a minimum. According to the present invention, an apparatus for picking up incoming image light comprises a solid state image sensor means for picking up the image light in accordance with an interlaced scanning technique to generate signal charges representing one frame image consisting of field images, said image sensor means comprising a sensing section provided with at least one linear cell array having cells with a specified photosensitive area to receive the image light and generate and store charges corresponding to the image light, and at least one transferring section arranged adjacent to at least one linear cell array and extending along said cell array to read out and transfer the charges stored in said sensing section, and swing driver means coupled to said image sensor means for applying a first vibration to said image sensor means such that each pixel cell is displaced to mutually different sampling positions for picking up light in a plurality of frame periods included in one frame period, wherein said swing driver means simultaneously applies to said image sensor means a second vibration having a frequency higher than that of said first vibration and along the same direction as the first vibration such that each pixel cell vibrates while it picks up light in each sampling position of each field period, whereby the effective cell area of the pixel in each sampling period is substantially expanded to reduce the moire interference generated in each field period. Embodiments of the present invention will now be described by way of example only and with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Referring now to Fig. 1, an interline transfer type charge coupled device IT CCD 10 is included in an interlaced scanning solid state image sensing system according to one embodiment of the present invention. The IT CCD 120 has an ordinary number of picture elements or pixels, for example 500 x 400. The IT CCD 10 is fixed to a couple of vibrators 12, 14 at the rear side 10a opposite to an image sensing area 10b. The vibrators 12, 14 are comprised of bimorph piezoelectric elements. The vibrators 12, 14 are fixed to a basement or support plate 16. Image light 18 is incident to the image sensor 10 through a lens 20. The vibrators 12, 14 fundamentally vibrate or swing in a plane normal to the incident image light 18 in a horizontal direction. The IT CCD 10 fixed to the vibrators 12, 14 is thus vibrated or periodically displaced relative to the incident image light 18, thereby performing a basis swing image pickup operation. A clock driver 22 is electrically connected to the CCD 10 through a gate terminal 24. A timing signal or sync signal 26 is supplied from a sync signal generator 27. The clock driver 22 serves to appropriately drive the CCD 10 in response to the sync signal 26. The sync signal, that is, timing signal 26 is also supplied to a vibration controller 28, which electrically drives the vibrators 12, 14. The vibration controller 28 produces a drive signal 30 in response to the timing signal 26 and supplies the piezoelectric vibrators 12, 14 with the signal 30. A delay circuit 32 connected between the circuits 22, 28 delays the timing of the horizontal readout of the CCD 10 by PH 2 where PH means a horizontal pixel pitch in synchronism with the vibration pulse period. The vibration controller 28 includes a trapezoid wave signal gernerator 34 and a drive pulse generator 36. The signal generator 34 generates an electrical trapezoid wave signal under the control of a waveform control circuit 38. The output terminal of the CCD 10 is connected through a preamplifier 40 and a process amplifier 42 to a video signal processing circuit 44, which generates a video signal 46 through a video output terminal 48. The process amplifier 42 and the video output terminal 48 are operated based on the timing signal 26 supplied from the timing signal generator 27. As shown in Fig. 2, the CCD 10 has a photosensing section 50 consisting of a plurality of photosensitive elements or photodiodes p11, p12,..., pij,..., pMN of N by M where, N 500 and M 400, for example . The photodiodes p are arranged on a CCD substrate 52 in matrix manner. M units of vertical CCD shift register elements C1,..., CM are arranged adjacent and opposite to M lines of photodiodes P1,..., CM are connected to a horizontal CCD shift register S at their final transferring stages. A field shift gate 54 referred to as FSG hereinafter is formed to have gate portions each extending between the vertical photodiode or picture element lines P1,..., PM and the vertical CCD shift register elements C1,..., CM. When a pulse signal or gate control signal is supplied from the driver 22 of Fig. 1 to the FSG 54 through the gate terminal 245, signal charges stored or integrated on the photodiodes p due to incident light radiation are transferred to the vertical CCD shift register C. The signal charges transferred to the vertical CCD shift register C are further successively transferred to the horizontal CCD shift register S at every stage. Output signals of the CCD 10 are supplied to the video processor 46 through the amplifiers 42, 44. In Fig. 3 there is illustrated, on an enlarged scale, an image pickup area of the CCD 10 which corresponds to one picture element of a cell in the photosensitive section 50. A portion 56 of the image pickup area, which is shaded by oblique lines, denotes a metal electrode for shielding incident light. The electrode 56 has an opening 58 and the photodiode pij which corresponds to a single image cell, is located under the opening 58. The vertical CCD shift register Ci and the FSG 56 extend under the electrode 56 and serve, therefore, as nonphotosensitive areas since they are optically shielded by the electrode 56. The electrode 56 also optically separates the adjacent photodiodes from each other. The CCD 10 included in the first embodiment of the present invention is swing driven horizontally under a specific vibration mode which will be explained below in synchronism with one frame period tF consisting of a couple of field periods ta and tb. In other words, the CCD 10 is wobbling swing driven in such a manner that two different vibration waveforms, first and second vibration waveforms, are composed and simultaneously applied thereto in one frame period. The wobbling swing driven imaging concept according to the present invention will now be described in detail with reference to Fig. 4A and 4B. In order to explain the wobbling swing mode of the IT CCD 10, Fig. 4A shows a representation of the image pickup region of a plurality of CCD cells arranged such that the one cell regions shown in Fig. 3 are aligned along the horizontal direction X. As was stated above, CCD 10 is driven by vibration plate 12 such that there are two different simultaneous vibration modes. Opening 58, which corresponds to one cell region of CCD 10, is vibrated such that it is alternately positioned in the two different sampling positions X1, X2 in the horizontal direction X in the continuous field periods ta, tb. This vibration mode is the basic vibration for the swing pickup, and in this specification is referred to as the first vibration mode. The center of vibration of the first vibration is shown by X0. The amplitude of the first vibration is the distance W1 between sampling points X1, X2. This distance W1 is set at one half of the horizontal pitch PH i.e., PH 2 between the CCD cells. The cell opening 58 is positioned at XI in the field period ta of the first half of one frame period tF, and in the position X2 in the field period of the latter half of the frame period tF in accordance with the first vibration. According to Fig. 4B, cell opening 58 located in the first sampling position X2 is shown by a solid line, while the cell opening in the second sampling position X2 is shown by a broken line. For each field period each cell is displaced between two sampling positions and the incident image light picked up, which results in the resolution in the horizontal direction of one frame image obtained by composing these field images being substantially increased. CCD 10 is also given another vibration simultaneously. The cell center of opening 58, which corresponds to one cell region of CCD 10, is simultaneously vibrated at a prescribed high frequency in the horizontal direction between the sampling positions X1 and X2. This vibration mode is referred to as the second vibration mode. The center of the vibration of the second vibration, of course, matches positions X1 or X2 mentioned above. The frequency of the second vibration is at least higher than that of the first vibration. At the time of image pickup, the CCD 10 is swing driven according to a specific swing mode in which the first and second vibrations are mutually superposed so each cell is displaced to the first sampling position X1 in the field period ta of the first half of one frame period tF, and with position X1 as the center, the incident image light is picked up while the CCD is vibrated at a higher frequency. The field shift pulse 60 applied to FSG 54 is generated at the switching times t1, t3 of the field periods ta, tb, and the charges or signal carriers are stored in the cell within period t2, and read out. The cell is displaced to the second sampling position X2 in the field period tb of the following latter half of the same frame period and, simultaneously, with the position X2 as the center, the incident image light is picked up while the cell is vibrated at a higher frequency. The result of this is that, within the field period ta or tb, the effective photosensitive area of cell opening 58 is expanded, as is shown by 62a and 62b in Fig. 4C. In other words, a cell, which has the expanded opening 62a or 62b, can perform swing image pickup in accordance with the first vibration mode. Under such a condition, this cell can be considered to be substantially stationary in the field periods ta or tb of one frame period tF. It should be noted that the amplitude W2 of the second vibration is set such that the expanded cell openings 62a and 62b maintain an overlapping distance D on CCD chip 10 see Fig. 4C . Consequently, the photosensitive area the effective cell area of the pixel in the sampling position of each field period is expanded and the moire generated in each field is reduced. This reduction in moire comes from the improved mutual cancellation effect obtained when the two field images are added to make one frame image. Accordingly, with wobbling swing image pickup the resolution can be approximately doubled and, at the same time, flicker noise, which is the source of moire in the reproduced image, can be suppressed to a minimum value. Fig. 5 shows a model of the positional distribution of the expanded cells of the wobbling swing image pickup CCD. The horizontal arrangement pitch of the CCD with cell openings 62a and 62b which are pseudo enlarged compared with the prior art opening area by wobbling in each field, is expressed by the same PH that shows the original cell arrangement pitch. Also, the distance between cell openings 62a and 62b, which are displaced to different positions between the A and B fields by the swing vibration in each frame, is one half the horizontal arrangement pitch of the CCD, and is expressed as PH 2. When the cell openings are displaced between the A and B fields of one cell, regions D1 and D2, which can be considered to spatially and mutually overlap therebetween, are produced. As a result, the spatial sampling points of the A and B fields the area of these sampling points is pseudo enlarged over the prior art openings are mutually displaced by 180 in relation to the incident image light. The distribution of the sampling points obtained by the above wobbling swing image pickup operation is illustrated in Fig. 6. In Fig. 6, 1HA, 2HA and 3HA denote the scanning lines which obtain the sampling points in field A, and 1HB, 2HB and 3HB denote the scanning lines which obtain the sampling points in field B. When these field images are matched with the actual sampling points and displayed, the sampling points on each scanning line of the A and B fields have a pixel pitch twice the CCD horizontal pixel pitch. The time width corresponding to the horizontal pixel pitch PH of the CCD is determined to be the reciprocal of the drive frequency fCP of the CCD shift register S, or Accordingly, the horizontal threshold resolution of the image can be made twice the Nyquist threshold value determined by the drive frequency fCP of the CCD shift register S. The flicker noise from moire that occurs when one simultaneously attempts to improve the resolution using the prior art swing pickup technique, can be greatly decreased by the wobbling vibration in this embodiment, which produces the overlapping areas D1 and D2 between the fields. In the above image sensing apparatus, which uses the wobbling swing image pickup concept of this invention, there is no deterioration of the image quality in the reproduced image from the irregular movement of the moire at the time the physical swing is applied to CCD chip 10 using the prior art swing image pickup technique. The reason for this being that in this embodiment the wobbling of the cell opening 58 is at a frequency higher than that of the A and B fields. Fig. 7 is a graph showing the measured horizontal resolution characteristics obtained in the first embodiment of this invention. The horizontal axis is the horizontal resolution TV lines and the vertical axis modulation degree . Fn refers to the Nyquist frequency. In the graph of Fig. 7, broken line 70 is the characteristic curve when swing image pickup is performed at the different sampling points in the different fields only for the first embodiment . In this case, the horizontal threshold resolution is improved to 2Fn, which is approximately twice the original Nyquist threshold frequency Fn of the CCD itself. However, the image modulation at the horizontal threshold resolution of 2Fn is 65 , which is relatively high, so, using this modulation as the reference, a line patterned incident image develops a moire, and a resolution lower than this modulation less than a resolution of 550 TV lines is mixed with the image components. The portion of the broken line 70 sloping to the right is returned at the resolution TV line 550, and defines the moire generation region 72 mixed with the low resolution image components. As can be understood from this graph, the moire generation region 72 covers a high range and the seriousness of the flicker noise which results in the simple prior art swing image pickup can be vividly seen. The moire frequency approaches zero at 2Fn so the band in this region is different from the amplitude of the signals between the A and B field images, and as a result flicker noise occurs. On the other hand, the solid line 74 in Fig. 7 is the characteristic curve obtained when both the first vibration base vibration for performing the above swing image pickup operation and the second vibration for making the CCD 10 wobble in each field period are simultaneously applied to the CCD 10, thereby causing the CCD 10 to be Wobbling swing driven . As can be readily deducted from curve 74, the image modulation at the horizontal threshold resolution of 2Fn has been greatly reduced to less than 10 so the moire generation region 76 also is greatly reduced compared to region 72. Accordingly, it was possible to greatly suppress flicker noise, which is the source of moire. In reality, when the wobbling swing drive concept of this invention is applied, the flicker noise in the improved resolution reproduced frame image was reduced to a level invisible to the naked eye. The circuit structure shown in Fig. 1 for performing wobbling swing drive will be described in detail with reference to Figs. 8, 9A and 9B. The circuit of Fig. 1 is configured to obtain the second vibration, which is superposed on the basic swing mode corresponding to the first vibration waveform. That is to say, the wobbling vibration mode is obtained by using the resonant frequency of the bimorph piezoelectric elements 12, 14. The characteristics of the vibrations produced by these bimorph vibrators 12, 14 are shown in the drawings with the horizontal axis being the applied frequency and the vertical axis being the displacement. The drive pulse generator 36 included in the vibration controller 28 of Fig. 1 supplies an electrical drive pulse signal 30, which has a suitable vibration waveform, to the bimorph vibrators 12, 14 to vibrate CCD chip 10. The waveform of this drive pulse signal 30 is shown in Fig. 9A. The displacement of bimorph piezoelectric elements 12, 14, which vibrate in response to drive signal 30, sharply increases as a secondary curve near the peculiar resonant frequency fr, and at the resonant frequency fr, the maximum displacement is obtained. In this embodiment, fr was set at 200 Hz. At this time, the frequency of the first vibration the basic swing vibration , shown by f1 in Fig. 8, was set at 30 Hz, and at f2 and f3, it was set at 150 and 250 Hz, respectively. Timing signal 26 from timing signal generator 27 is supplied to vibration controller 28 and, based on this signal, a vibration drive pulse signal 80 having the trapezoidal waveform shown in Fig. 9A is produced. The rise tf and fall tr of signal 80 is adjusted by wave controller circuit 38 such that the frequency component of the rise and fall is equal to the resonant frequency fr of the bimorph piezoelectric elements 12, 14. Thus, the vibration waveform, as is shown in Fig. 9B, is suitable for performing the wobbling swing drive of this invention. It can be readily seen that this waveform is extremely close to that shown in Fig. 4B. It should be noted that amplitude W2 of wobbling vibration of cell opening 58 in each field can be set to the desired value by varying the time length of the rise tf and fall tr. As was described above, with a structure in which the vibration controller 28 applies a drive pulse signal having the waveform shown in Fig. 9A to the bimorph piezoelectric elements, using the resonant frequency of these elements it is possible to simultaneously produce the first vibration the basic swing , which displaces CCD 10 to different sampling positions X1, X2 between the fields, and the second vibration wobbling , which wobbles CCD 10 in each field. The simultaneous generation of mutually different first and second vibrations by one of the bimorph piezoelectric elements 12 14 has already been confirmed in experiments conducted by the inventor. When the basic swing is performed in response to drive signal 30, the bimorph piezoelectric elements start to resonate at the field change point by the supply of signal components, which are included in the rise tf and fall tr and have a frequency equal to the resonant frequency of the bimorph piezoelectric elements. The resonance vibration of these elements is carried out continuously through the field period, as is shown in Fig. 9B. This resonance vibration is the source of the wobbling in each field. In other words, the elements 12, 14 perform the swing for the image pickup, and at the beginning of another different field period, begin the wobbling vibration at their own particular resonant frequency, and continue this wobbling this wobbling corresponds to the second vibration of the CCD at this resonant frequency in that field period. In this way, it is possible to perform the wobbling swing driven image pickup operation of this invention with a relatively simple circuit structure. Fig. 10 shows an image sensing system according to a second embodiment of the present invention. The same reference numerals have been used for the same parts in the first embodiment shown in Fig. 1 and a description has been omitted. In this embodiment, the bimorph piezoelectrical elements are fed electrically to thereby provide another circuit arrangement, which generates the particular vibration required to perform the wobbling wing driven image sensing operation. In this arrangement, when it is desired to set the wobbling frequency at a frequency other than the resonance frequency of the bimorph piezoelectric elements higher, for example , this arrangement is particularly effective. Basically, the higher the wobbling frequency in each field of the CCD, the greater the pseudo expansion effect on the cell opening. In Fig. 10, the vibration controller 100 produces a vibration drive signal 102 simultaneously with the timing signal 26 supplied from the timing signal generation 27. This vibration drive signal 102 is supplied to the bimorph piezoelectrical elements 12, 14. The vibration controller 100 produces exclusive electrical signals, which have a swing vibration waveform and a wobbling vibration waveform, in order for the bimorph piezoelectrical elements 12, 14 to provide the wobbling swing mode in which the basic swing signal first vibration and the sub wobbling signal second vibration are superposed. These signals are added and supplied to the elements 12, 14. Accordingly, the vibration controller 100 is comprised of a swing wave generator 104, which exclusively produces an electrical signal that has the waveform of a first vibration, or basic swing vibration, and a wobbling wave generator 106, which exclusively produces an electrical signal that has the waveform of a second vibration, or wobbling vibration. The wobbling wave signal 108 from wobbling wave generator 106 is supplied to adder circuit 112 via amplitude control circuit 110. The trapezoidal swing wave signal 114 output by the swing wave generator 104 is supplied to adder 112 where the two different signals are added to produce the swing wobbling drive signal 102. Signal 102 is supplied to the bimorph piezoelectrical elements 12, 14 via pulse driver 116. Fig. 11A shows a representation of the image pickup region of a plurality of CCD cells, which correspond to that of Fig. 4A, for explaining the wobbling swing mode of the IT CCD 10 included in the second embodiment of Fig. 10. As was stated earlier, CCD 10 is driven by vibration plate 12 such that the two vibration modes are simultaneous. The first vibration swing vibration is performed such that opening 58, which corresponds to one cell region of CCD 10, is alternately positioned in the two different horizontal sampling positions X1, X2 in the connected field periods ta, tb. This swing vibration is the same as that in the first embodiment, and the amplitude W1 is set at half the horizontal arrangement pitch PH between the CCD cells i.e., PH 2 . In this second embodiment, the amplitude W2 of the second vibration, which is superposed on the first vibration, is set larger than the second vibration amplitude W2 of the first embodiment. This amplitude W2 is set larger than the swing amplitude W1 PH 2 and, accordingly, this CCD 10, which is vibrated by the superposed wobbling and swing vibrations, has a wobbling vibration waveform at the two field periods ta, tb in the frame period tF in which the vibration peak 118 crosses the center X0 of the swing vibration, as is shown in Fig. 11B. The frequency of the wobbling is set at least higher than that of the swing, which is the same as in the first embodiment. When an image is picked up, because CCD 10 is swing driven according to a specific vibration mode comprising superposed first and second vibrations, each cell picks up the incident image light while, in the field period ta of the first half of the frame period tF, being displaced to the first sampling position X1 and being amplified by a high frequency with the position X1 as the center, and while being wobbled at the amplitude W2 . This cell, in the latter field period tb of the same frame period tF, is displaced to the second sampling position X2 and, at the same time, with the position X2 as the center, picks up incident image light while wobbling with an amplitude W2 and a high frequency. Consequently, the effective photosensitive area of cell opening 58 in the field period ta or tb are greatly expanded twice the actual area of the opening , as is shown by 120a and 120b of Fig. 11C. The result of this is that noise, such as moire generation in the field image the resolution of which is slightly decreased in the horizontal direction and flicker noise caused by the moire and dynamic noise, which results in deterioration of the image quality, can be greatly reduced. By simply controlling the amplitude of the wobbling, it is possible to slightly vary the improvement to the resolution and the prevention of moire generation. This means that the same circuit construction of the vibration controller 100 can be adapted, without variation in hardware, to the different requirements or individual demands of design choice. The following is a description of the actual operation of vibration controller 100 of Fig. 10. Fig. 12A shows the waveform of the vertical blanking pulse signal supplied to CCD 10 and Fig. 12B shows the waveform of the field shift pulse signal. Swing wave signal 114 from swing wave generator 104 has a trapezoidal waveform, as is shown in Fig. 12C. Wobbling wave signal 108 from wobbling wave generator 106 is controlled by amplitude controller 110 and, consequently, has the high frequency sinusoidal waveform shown in Fig. 12D. The frequency of this signal 108 is set higher than the particular resonant frequency of the bimorph piezoelectric elements 12, 14, for example, 250 Hz corresponding to frequency f3 in the graph of Fig. 8 . The amplitude controlled wobbling wave signal with the waveform shown in Fig. 12D is produced in synchronism with the field shift pulse signal and the drive signal having the waveform shown in Fig. 12C. The wobbling wave signal is produced in synchronism with the signal level variation such as the rise and fall of swing drive signal 114. As shown at 122 in Fig. 12C, when signal 114 falls, the wobbling wave signal also falls and has downward negative sine wave components 124. Also, when signal 114 rises, as shown at 126 in Fig. 12C, the wobbling wave signal also matches this rise and has upward positive sine wave components 128. The wobbling wave signal 108 has n ½ cycles in each field period, wherein n is clearly defined as zero or a positive integer n 0,1,2,... . According to Fig. 12D, n 3 was used as the example for illustration. If the wobbling wave signal 108 is set in this way and added with the swing drive signal 114 of Fig. 12C, there is no signal adding loss and the generation of useless harmonic wave components can be prevented. Although the present invention has been shown and described with respect to particular embodiments, various changes and modifications which are obvious to a person skilled in the art to which the invention pertains are deemed to lie with the scope of the invention. In the embodiments, the swing direction is set so as to coincide with the CCD horizontal direction X to obtain a doubled image resolution power. However, the swing direction may be changed to coincide with a slanted direction to the CCD horizontal direction X. In this case, the CCD chip 10 is swing driven in the inclined direction so that each cell opening thereof rests in different sampling positions, which are aligned along the inclined direction, during different field periods ta, tb included in one frame period tF. If the amplitude of the X axial vibration component is set to have the half of the horizontal pixel pitch pH, the horizontal image resolution can be improved in the same manner decribed above. Under such a condition, the interlacing image sensing is performed not only in the horizontal direction but also in the vertical direction, corresponding to the interlacing scanning in the picture image display. Therefore a high vertical resolution as well as horizontal resolution can be attained.