# Method of and improved apparatus for making discrete airlaid absorbent fibrous articles

## Claims
Eine luftschichtende Vorrichtung 20 zur Herstellung von aus diskreten, saugfähigen Fasern bestehender Artikel 51 , wobei die Vorrichtung umfaßt eine Ablagekammer 24 und eine rotierbare Ablagetrommel 26 mit einer Vielzahl von Hohlräumen 27 zur Gestaltung der Artikel, welche entlang des Umfangs dieser Ablagetrommel 26 angeordnet sind, und wobei jeder der Hohlräume Seitenwände 62, 63, 64 und einen gelöcherten Boden 30 aufweist, welcher an diesen Seitenwänden befestigt ist, Mittel, um die mit Luft eingetragenen Fasern zu einem Bereich der Trommel 26 hinzuleiten, der diese Ablagekammer passiert, und Mittel, um Luft zum Eintragen der Fasern durch die gelöcherten Böden 30 der Hohlräume abzusaugen und aus der Vorrichtung auszupumpen,

## Description
This invention pertains to forming airlaid articles such as discrete absorbent cores for catamenial napkins or disposable diapers. More particulary it pertains to making such discrete articles so that they have high structural integrity, and good edge definition i.e., the edge of the article being made in the image of the edge of the cavity . This also limits the degree of length width growth of the articles if they are subjected to calendering after being removed from the cavities. This is, basically, achieved by compacting each airlaid mass prior to removing it from its formation cavity. A drum type airlaying apparatus for making discrete absorbent fibrous articles is disclosed, for example, in U.S. Patent 2,073,329 which issued March 9, 1937 to C. P Winter, and which includes a broadly divergent duct which extends from his drylap disintegrator i.e., means for air entraining fibers to the periphery of his first deposition drum. Another drum type airlaying apparatus for airlaying discrete absorbent fibrous articles which has a similarly broadly divergent duct for air entrained fiber flow is disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,005,957 which issued February 1, 1977 to Peter P. Savich. A drum type airlaying apparatus for making a concatinated stream of absorbent fibrous articles is disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,518,726 which issued July 7, 1970 to C.T. Banks. A belt type airlaying apparatus having a duct for air entrained fibers which is sharply angled obliquely downstream with respect to the laydown belt is disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,375,447 which issued March 1, 1983 to Raymond Chung. DE A 3 203 992 discloses a method and apparatus for making sanitary napkins wherein the laid down fibre mass is subsequently subjected to compression. According to one aspect of the invention there is provided an airlaying apparatus for making discrete absorbent fibrous articles which apparatus includes a deposition chamber, a rotatable deposition drum having a plurality of article formation cavities therein disposed in circumferentially spaced relation about the periphery of said deposition drum, and wherein each of the cavities has side walls and a foraminous bottom wall secured to said side walls, means for directing air entrained fibers towards a span of the drum passing through said deposition chamber, and means fo vacuum drawing the fiber entrainment air through the foraminous bottom walls of the cavities and exhausting it from the apparatus, wherein the apparatus comprises An embodiment of the apparatus aspect of the invention is illustrated in the accompanying drawings in which A fragmentary portion of an exemplary drum type apparatus for making discrete absorbent fibrous articles such as cores of catamenial napkins or disposable diapers in accordance with the present invention is designated 20 in Figure 1. As further shown in Figure 1, apparatus 20 comprises a disc type hammermill 22 having a columnar discharge chute 23, a hood 24, a recirculation manifold 25, a deposition drum 26 having a plurality of deposition cavities 27 disposed in circumferentially spaced relation about its periphery, two scarfing rolls 31 and 32, a lugged cylinder 34 having a plurality of radially extending lugs 35, a blow off means or nozzle 36, and a take away conveyor 38 comprising a vacuum type return roll 39 and a foraminous endless belt 40. Means not shown are provided for feeding a drylap web into infeed slot 42 of hammermill 22 at a predetermined rate means for powering and controlling hammermill 22 means for rotating drum 26, scarfing rolls 31 and 32, and conveyor 38 in time relation means for maintaining a predetermined degree of vacuum in vacuum manifold 44 of drum 26 via vacuum duct 45, and means for maintaining a predetermined level of vacuum inside a sector of return roll 39 through vacuum duct 46. Additionally, a somewhat columnar stream 50 of air entrained fibers is shown in Figure 1 to be exiting from the discharge chute 23 of hammermill 22 and directed generally radially towards a sector of drum 26 having a relatively small circumferential length and an endless stream of discrete absorbent fibrous articles 51 is shown moving rightwardly on belt 40 of take away conveyor 38. As used herein, a drylap web is a web of fibers which are subject to being disassociated and air entrained by the action, for example, of hammermill 22. Briefly, apparatus 20 comprises means for converting an endless length or roll of drylap web into a stream of discrete absorbent fibrous articles having good definition and structural integrity. The hammermill alternately designated a fiberizer or disintegrator disassociates the fibers of the drylap web and then discharges a relatively high velocity stream of air entrained fibers, which stream is directed generally radially towards a relatively short circumferential span of the periphery of drum 26. The velocity and mass derived momentum of the fibers in the stream injects them into a deposition cavity disposed on the periphery of the drum while the substantially smaller momentum of the fiber entrainment air enables the bulk of the fiber entrainment air to turn upstream with respect to the periphery of the drum and be drawn through the foraminous bottom walls of substantially empty additional deposition cavities by the vacuum maintained in vacuum manifold 44 of drum 26. Indeed, as is more fully described hereinafter, each deposition cavity is preferably overfilled in its entirety i.e., its full width and circumferential length , and the excess is scarfed away by scarfing rolls 31 and 32. Then, the mass of fibers disposed in each filled deposition cavity is compacted a predetermined amount by the action of a lug 35 on the lugged cylinder 34 to complete the formation of a discrete airlaid article 51 having good edge definition and structural integrity as a result of being compacted before being removed from its deposition cavity. The discrete articles are then transferred to the take away conveyor by the joint action of the blow off nozzle 36, and vacuum in a facing sector of the conveyor return roll 39. Parenthetically, the bulk of the fiber entrainment air exits via substantially empty deposition cavities because of the flow impeding effect of the fiber build up in the deposition cavity passing under the stream 50 of air entrained fibers. A deposition cavity 27 is shown in a perspective view, Figure 2, of a fragmentary portion of the periphery of deposition drum 26. The deposition cavity has a stepped configuration to provide articles 51 having substantially less basis weight i.e., weight of fibers per unit of its plan view area in their end regions than their center spans. That is, as the articles 51 are formed they have generally uniform density, thick center spans and relatively thin end regions due to the geometry of the deposition cavities 27. Then, through the action of the lugged cylinder 34, the articles are compacted to achieve improved structural integrity to have their edges more clearly defined and to limit their length width growth in the event they are further calendered or compacted after being removed from the deposition cavities. Additionally, the discrete articles 51 are preferably calendered and enveloped in suitable covering materials and such other converting operations as desired are effected downstream from the deposition member to produce finished disposable consumer products comprising airlaid fibrous cores for example, catamenial napkins and or disposable diapers. Referring now to Figure 3, a transverse radial section of drum 26 is shown to have an outer radius OR and inner radius IR a rim 60 having a radial thickness TR and a transverse width WR. The rim 60 as shown in Figure 3 has a radially extending hold 61 machined through it, which hole, as shown, is defined by side walls 62 and 63, and end walls 64, only one of the end walls being visible in the sectional view. Of course, hole 61 is only one of a plurality of such holes which are disposed in the rim of drum 26 one for each deposition cavity 27, Figure 1, which in the exemplary apparatus 20 number twelve which are spaced at thirty degrees center to center. The radially outwardly facing surface of the rim has a recess 66 machined in it to accommodate the flange of a deposition cavity insert 28 so that the radially outwardly facing surface of the insert is flush with the radially outwardly facing surface of the rim, and so that together they constitute the periphery 29 of the drum. A piece of screen or otherwise foraminous material is secured to the bottom end of insert 28 to constitute its bottom wall 30. The surface of the drum having a radius IR is designated sealing surface 68. The vacuum manifold 44, Figure 1, which is stationary i.e., does not rotate with drum 26 is provided with sealing means which coacts with sealing surface 68, Figure 3, to enable the vacuum applied to the manifold to draw fiber entrainment air downwardly through the cavities 27 and holes 61 which pass over the vacuum manifold as the drum rotates. Referring again to Figure 1, apparatus 20 is shown to further comprises an optional baffle plate 55 which is pivotally mounted on the upstream lip of chute 23 by pivot pin 56 a recirculation dump valve 58 and a recirculation dump duct 59. The angular position of baffle plate 55 can be adjusted to precipitate a downstream velocity vector component to the stream 50 of fibers to match the peripheral velocity of drum 26, or to otherwise provide a sufficient downstream velocity vector component of stream 50 to achieve even filling of the deposition cavities 27. The recirculation dump valve 58, and the recirculation dump duct 59 are provided to divert airentrained fibers from the recirculation manifold 25 when apparatus 20 is turned off to prevent fibers in the recirculation manifold from precipitating deleterious ramifications during startups of apparatus 20. An exemplary apparatus of the configuration shown in Figure 1 was sized and configured to make twelve articles 51 per revolution of the drum. In this apparatus, the articles are formed in deposition cavities having lengths of six and six tenths inches 17.8 cm. and which cavities are spaced eight and one half inches 21.6 cm. center to center about the periphery of the drum. The cavities are configured to be seven tenths of an inch deep 1.8 cm in their end regions, and one and three tenths inches deep 3.3 cm in their center spans in order to make articles 51 having nominal fiber weights of eight grams each. The hood wraps the drum approximately one hundred eighty degrees, centered about the upstream wall of the discharge chute 23 as indicated in Figure 1. The vacuum manifold 44 spans two hundred sixty degrees of the drum, and is so disposed that its upstream end 52 is subjacent the upstream end of the hood, and so that its downstream end 53 is positioned just upstream of the return roll 39 and nozzle 36. The lugged cylinder 34 is configured generally as shown with four lugs 35. The lugs are disposed on the same pitch as the pitch of the deposition cavities on drum 26 so that cylinder 34 and the drum mesh albeit preferably not in contacting relation in a gear like manner as they are rotated in synchronous relation. The disk hammermill 22 was obtained from Curt G. Joa. Inc., and is their hammermill model number 85R 9505 B. This hammermill acts somewhat like a quasi centrifugal air blower inasmuch as it draws air into its intake. Thus, by connecting the recirculation manifold 25 to the intake of the hammermill, no other means need be provided to effect flow in the recirculation manifold. Apparatus 20 is preferably operated with the stream 50 having a length L of up to fourteen inches 35.6 cm. , and more preferably from ten to twelve inches 25.4 to 30.5 cm. a velocity of stream 50 of from two thousand to fifteen thousand feet per minute 0.61 to 4.57 Km. per minute , and more preferably from six thousand to ten thousand feet per minute 1.83 to 3.05 Km. per minute a flow rate of stream 50 of from one thousand to fifteen hundred cubic feet per minute 28.3 to 42.5 cubit meters per minute a fiber to air weight ratio in stream 50 of from six to one to thirty to one, and more preferably from seven to one to sixteen to one and a peripheral velocity of drum 26 preferably of from two hundred fifty to seven hundred feet per minute 76.2 to 213 meters per minute . The drylap used in the exemplary apparatus described above was obtained from The Buckeye Cellulose Corporation and comprised from seventy five to one hundred percent native softwood fibers, and from zero to twenty five percent hardwood fibers.