# Thermolysis of 2 3 aryl isoxazol 5 yl benzoic acids, salts and halides from 3 aryl spiro isobenzofuran 1 3H ,5 4 H isoxazol 3 ones.

## Abstract
A process for preparing 2 3 Aryl 5 isoxazolyl benzoic acid having the formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for preparing 2 3 Aryl 5 isoxazolyl benzoic acid having the formulaEMI10.1 wherein X and Y are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, halo lower alkyl, phenoxyphenyl and cyano which comprises heating 3 Aryl spiro isobenzofuran 1 3H 5 4 H isoxazol 3 one having the formulaEMI10.2 at a temperature ranging from 30 C to the reflux temperature of the solution. 2. A process according to Claim 1 wherein a spiro compound is dissolved in a suitable inert solvent. 3. A process according to Claim 2 wherein said temperature ranges from 100 C to the reflux temperature r the solution. t. A process according to Claim 2 wherein said temperature ranges from 1250C. to the reflux temperature of the solution. 5. A process according to Claim 2 wherein said temperature is the refl x temperature of the solution. 6. A process according to Claim 1 therein X i hydrogen and Y is trifluoromethyl 7. A process for preparing a said of 3 Aryl isoxazol 5 yl benzoic acid which comprises react a spiro compound having the formula EMI11.1 wherein X and Y are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, halo lower alkyl, phenoxy, phenyl and cyano, with a base wherein said base has a pKA of 11 or more in the presence of a water miscible solvent. 8. A process to Claim 7 wherein said base is selected from the group consisting of alkali metal hydroxides, alkaline earth carbonates, alkali metal carbonates and aliphatic amines, 9. A process according to Claim 7 wherei hydrogen and Y is halo lower alkyl, 0. A process according to Claim 9 wherein said spiro compound has the formulaEMI11.2 11. A process according to Claim 10 wherein said trifluoromethyl molecy is in the metal posi 12. A process according to Claim 10 where said base is an alkali metal hydroxide. 13. A process according to Claim 7 whic comprises re2cting a spiro compound having the formula EMI12.1 with sodium hydroxide in the presence of an alcohol. 14. A process according to Claim 7 further comprising the step of acidifying the resulting salt to form the free acid of said salt. 15. A process for preparing 2 3 Aryl 5 isoxazol . benzoyl halide having the formulaEMI12.2 wherein X and Y are independently selected from the consisting of hydrogen, halogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, halo lower alkyl, phenoxyphenyl and cyano and wherein X1 is a chloro, bromo, fluoro or iodo which comprises treating 3 Aryl spiro isobenzofuran 1 3H , 5 4 H isoxazol 3 one having the formulaEMI12.3 wherein X and Y are as previously defined, with an acid halide and water 16. A process according to Claim 15 wherein X is hydrogen and Y is trifluoromethyl. 17. A process according to Claim 15 wherein said acid halide is selected from the group consisting of thionyl chloride, thionyl bromide, thionyl fluoride, phosphorus trichloride, phosphorus tribromide, oxalyl chloride, triphenyl phosphine carbon tetrachloride, PC1,, POEr3 and PCC13, 18. A process according to Claim 17 wherein said acid halide is selected from the group consisting of thionyl chloride, phosphorus trichloride, PC15 and POCl3. 19. A process according to Claim 15 whereon X is chlorine. 20. A process according to Claim 19 wherein said acid halide is thionyl chloride.

## Description
THERMOLYSIS OF 2 3 ARYL ISOXAZOL 5 YL BENZOIC ACIDS,SALTS AND HALIDES FROM 3 ARYL SPIitO ISOSENZOFURAN l 3H ,5 4 H ISOXAZOL 3 ONES This invention relates to the preparation of 2 3 Aryl 5 isoxazolyl benzoic acids, salts or halides thereof by treatment of 3 Aryl spiro isobenzofuran1 3H ,5 4 H isoxazol 3 one with heat, strong base or a reactive halide in water. Belgian Patent 837,454 discloses such isoxazolyl benzoates to be effective plant growth regulants.Isoxazol 5 yl benzoates are usually prepared by conversion of isoxazolin 5 yl benzoate with N bromosuccinimide or dichlorodicyanobenzoquinone. However, isoxazolin 5 yl benzoates are prepared from vinyl benzoates which are difficult to prepare. In accordance with the novel aspects of the present invention, 3 aryl isoxazol 5 yl benzoic acids or salts thereof are prepared by thermolysis or base treatment of 3 aryl spirol isobenzofuran 1 3H , 5 4 H isoxazol 3 ones. 3 Aryl spiro isobenzofuran l 3H ,5 4 H isoxazol 3 one starting materials are prepared by reaction of a nitrile oxide with 3 methylenephthalide in accordance with the following equation EMI1.1 Since the Aryl radical takes no appreciable part in the reaction, any aromatic radical or heteroaromatic radical, e.g., pyridyl, may be used.Preferably, however, Aryl is a radical of the following formulaEMI2.1 wherein X and Y are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, halo lower alkyl, phenoxy, phenyl and cyanose As used herein, the terms lower alkyl and lower alkoxy are understood to include those alkyl and alkoxy groups having up to five carbon atoms7 inclusive.Both straight as well as branched chain alkyl groups are contemplated. The term halo lower alkyl as used herein is understood to mean those lower alkyl groups in which at least one, and perhaps all, of the hydrogen atoms have been replaced by halogen atoms. It is to be clearly understood that trifluoromethyl is contemplated as being a halo lower alkyl moiety. The term halogen as used herein includes chlorine, bromine, fluorine and iodine. More specifically, the 2 3 aryl 5 iso xazolyl benzoic acids or salts and halides thereof may be prepared in accordance wit the following reaction scheme EMI2.2 where Aryl is as defined above. In accordance with the process of the invention, the benzoic acid is prepared by heating the spiro coflpounc at atmospheric pressure to above its melting point for a short period of time, normally less than one hour.Heating the spiro compounds for short periods of time at a temperature just above their melting point results in the conversion of said compound to the desired acid. In industrial applications, it may be found to be convenient to dissolve the spiro compound in a suitable solvent and heat the solution to convert the spiro compound to the desired acid. The amount of heat applied is not critical but should be that amount which is sufficient to convert said spiro compound to the desired acid. Conversion at temperatures below about 1000C is feasible but will be very slow. Temperatures above 100 C, and especially 125 C. up to said reflux temperature, will result in satisfactory conversion.However, heating the solution from temperatures just above the melting point of the spiro starting material to the reflux temperature of the solution is preferred to effect rapid and effective conversion. The solvent utilized is not critical. Any solvent which is inert to the spiro compound and the desired acid and has a sufficiently high boiling point e.g., above 80 C.i will suffice. Examples of such suitable solvents are o dichlorobenzene, dodecane, 1,2,3 trim.ethylbenzene, benzyl ethyl ether, 1,1,2 tribromoethane, 5 ethyl t propyl 1,3 dioxane and the like. To prepare the salts of 2 3 aryl isoxazol5 yl benzoic acid the spiro compound is mixed with a strong base resulting in a salt of 3 aryl isoxazol 5 yl benzoic acid. Although a stoichiometric amount of base may be utilized it is preferable to dissolve the base in water and utilize a slight excess. This reaction may be conducted at room temperature and atmospheric pressure.Temperatures and pressures above ambient may be utilized. The specific base used is not critical.However, the use of strong bases increases the rate of reaction. Generally, the base used should be of sufficient basicity to abstract the hydrogen from the 4 position of the isoxazoline ring. It is thought that 3 base having pKA of 11 or more will be sufficient. This includes but is not limited to such bases as alkali metal hydroxides, alkaline earth hydroxides, alkali metal carbonates, aliphatic amines, etc. The use of a solvent in addition to the water present is desirable although not necessary to the practice of this aspect of the present invention. If a solvent is utilized, the specific solvent used is not critical. It is desirable, however, to utilize a water miscible solvent in order to enhance the reaction of the spiro compound with the base. This is especially true if an aqueous base is a reactant. Useful solvents include water, alcohol, dioxin, tetrahydrofuran, dimethylsulfide and the like. This invention also relates to the preparation of 2 3 Aryl 5 isoxazol benzoyl halides by treatment of 3 Aryl spiro isobenzofuran 1 3H ,5 4 H isoxazol 3one with and acid halide in the presence of water. More specifically, the benzoyl halides are prepared accordingEMI4.1 where X is equal to Cl, Br, F or I and Aryl is as defined above. Acid halides, especially acid chlorides, are well known in the art and include thionyl chloride, thionyl bromide, thionyl fluoride, phosphorus trichloride, phosphorus tribromide, oxalyl chloride, triphenyl phosphine carbon tetrachloride, PC15, POBr3 and the like.Specifically, reactive halides are those compound containing halide ions that are known in the art to react with a carboxylic acid to form an acid halide To prepare the benzoyl hal ide, it is preferable to heat the spiro compound with the acid halide at reflux.It is possible to utilize lower tmperatures, as iow as room temperature. However, their use will adversely effect the rate of reaction. The reaction readily proceeds at atmospheric pressure, although higher pressure could be utilized. In accordance with the novel aspects of the present invention, it should be noted that the presence of a trace amount of watch is required for reaction to proceed. If water were completely absent, the formation of the benzoyl halide would not occur. Typically, few drops of water should be added to the reaction mixture.It is possible, however, that moisture in the atmosphere could provide sufficient water to drive the reaction. The critical factor is that a trace amount of water be provided from somewhere. In order to illustrate the novel aspects of the present invention, the following examples are presented.Said examples are presented for illustration and are not intended as a limitation with respect to the scope of the invention. Example 1 Preparation of 2 r3 m Trifluoromethylphenyl 5 Isoxazolyl3Benzoic Acid. 3 m Trifluoromethylphenyl spiro isobenzofuran 3H ,5 4 H isoxazol 3 one 2 grams , m.p. 170 C was placed in a test tube and heated in an oil bath at 200 220 C. for two hours. NMR indicated that the reaction was complete and that the product was the desired acid. The crude product was a yellow solid, m.p. 173 175 C. Recrystallization from acetonitrile afforded 1.25 grams of a yellow solid m.p 177 1780C. Alternatively, 2 t3 m trifluoromethylphenyl isoxazol 5 yli benzoic acid may be prepared according to the procedure of Example 2. Example 2 Preparation of 2 3 m Trìfluoromethylphenyl 5 Isoxazolyl Benzoic Acid. A solution of 3 m trifluoro methylphenyl spiro isobenzofuran 1 3H ,5 4 H isoxazol 3 one 1 gram m.p. 170 C, in 2C ml of o dichlorobenzene was held at reflux for 3.5 hours, cooled and concentrated under vacuum to give a yellow solid. NMR indicated that the reaction was not yet complete. The solid was redissolved in 20 ml of o dichlorobenzene and the solution was held at reflux for another 3 hours, cooled and concentrated under vacuum to give a quantitative yeild of the desired acid as a pale yellow solid mwp. 172 174 C. Example 3 Preparation of 2 3 p Trifluoromethylphenyl Isoxazol 5 yl Benzoic Acid. 31 p Trifluoromethyl phenyl spiro isobenzofuran 1 3H , 5 4 H isoxazol 3 one 1.35 grams m.p. 177 178 C was placed in a test tube and heated in an oil bath at 200 220 0C. for 35 minutes. NMR indicated that the reaction was complete and that the desired acid was prepared as a light brown solid, m.p.198 202 C. Recrystallization from acetonitrile afforded 0.92 grams of a white yellow solid m.p. 205 207 C.Anal. Calc d for C17H10F3NO3. C, 61.27 H, 3.02. Found C, 61.22 H, 3.07. Example 4 Preparation of 2 t3 2 4 Dichlorophenyl Isoxa zol 5 yl Benzoic Acid. 3 2,4 Dichlorophenyl spiro isobenzofuran 1 3H , 5 4 H isoxazol 3 one 1.35 grams m.p. 158 161 C was placed in a test tube and heated with an oil bath at a temperature of 185 190 C. for about 15 minutes. N.MR indicated the reaction was complete and that the desired acid was obtained as a white solid m.p.181 183 C. Recrystallization from acetonitrile resulted in 0.75 grams of a white solid m.p. 182 1830C.Anal. Calcld for C16H9NCl2O3. C, 57.86 H, 2.73. Found C, 57.61 H, 2.79 Example 5 Preparation of Sodium Salt of 2 3 o Methyl phenyl 5 IsoxazolyllBenzoic Acid. To 3 o methyl phenyl spiro isobenzofuran 1 3H , 5 4 H isoxazol 3 one 2.5 g, 0.0095 mole m.p. 156 157 C in 25 ml of ethanol was added a solution 0.6 g 0.015 mole of sodium hydroxide in 25 ml of water. The solution was stirred for two hours. An additional 50 ml of water was added and stirring continued resulting in a solution containing a salt of the desired acid. The solution was then acidified with concentrated hydrochloric acid and extracted with 200 ml of ether. The ethereal solution was washed two times with water, dried over calcium sulfate and concentrated under a with a vacuum to give 2.40 g of the desired acid as white crystals, m.p. 158.5 159.5 C.The crystals were recrystallized from 10 ml of acetonitrile to give 1.55 g of colorless crystals, m.p. 160.5 161.5 C.Anal. Calc d C, 73.11 H, 4.59. Found C, 73.08 H, 4.71. Example 5 Preparation of Sodium Salt of 2 3 m Trifluoromethylphenyl 5 isoxazolyl Benzoic Acid. To 1.0 g of 3l m trifluoromethylphenyl spiro isobenzofUran 1 3H , 5 4 H isoxazol 3 one, m.p. 1700C,dissolved in 25 ml of ethanol was added 20 ml of a 1 N sodium hydroxide solution. The solution was stirred at room temperature for five hours giving the sodium salt of the desired acid.The clear solution was acidified with concentrated hydrochloric acid, extracted with 300 ml of ether, washed two times with water, dried over calcium sulfate and concentrated to give 0.98 g of the desired acid as a white solid, m.p. 175 176 C. Example 7 Preparation of Sodium Salt of 2 13 m Cy nophenyl 5 IsoxazolyllBenzoic Acid. Utilizing the procedure ofExample 1, and 3 3 cyanophenyl spiro isobenzo furan l 3H ,5 41H isoxazol 3 one, m.p. 165 167 C, as the starting material 2 3 m cyanophenyl 5 isoxaziolyl benzoic acid, m.p. 195 196 C, was prepared. Anal. Calc d C, 70.34 H, 3.47. Found C, 70.22 H, 3.49. Example 8 Preparation of 2 L3 trifluoromethylphenyl 5 IsoxazollBenzoyl Chloride. A solution of 3 m tri fluoromethylphenyl spirof isobenzo,uran l 311 , 5. 4 H isoxazol 3 one 30 g, 0.90 mole , m.p. 1700C, tJhionyl chloride 150 ml and water 5 drops was held at reflux for 2 hours, cooled and concentrated under vacuum to 32.7 g of yellow solid, m.p. 86 890C. Recrystallization of 10 g of the yellow solid from 50 ml. of carbon tetrachloride afforded 7.1 g of a pale yellow solid, m.p. 90.5 920C. Recrystallization of 2.1 g of the pale yellow solid once again from carbon tetrachloride gave 1.47 g pure product as white crystals, m.p. 91 910C.Anal. Calc d for C17HgF3ClNO2 C, 58.C5 H, 2 58. Found C, 57.67 H, 2 57. Example 9 preparation of Isopropyl, 2 3 3 Trifluoro methylphenyl Isoxazol 5 yl Benzoic Acid Ester. The benzoyl chloride of Example 8 was esterified as follows. 2 3 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 5 isoxazol benzoyl chloride 5 g., 0.0162 mole was added portionwise over 10 minutes to a stirred ice cold solution of isopropanol 17 g., 0.202 mole in 15 ml. of pyridine. The reaction mixture was allowed to stand at room temperature for one hour and then was taken up in 300 ml of ether and washed three times with 1 Normal HC1, one tiitie with sodium carbonate and finally with H2O. The ether solution was dried and concentrated to yield 4.94 g of the isopropyl ester as a yellow oil, The oil was chromatographed on a silica gel column with 50 ethyl acetate 50 hexane as eluant to give a total of 3.7 g of pure isopropyl ester, nD25 1.5426. Anal. Calc d for C20H16F3NO3 C, 64.00 H, 4.30. Found Cr 63.99 H, 4.31. The above examples disclose an efficient process for preparing 3 aryl isoxazol 5 yl benzoic acid salt and halides thereof that are useful as herbicides and plant growth regulants. If desired, the acids may be esterified, as illustrated in Example 9, to give additional herbicides and plant growth regulants. Although this invention has been described with respect to specific modifications, the details thereof are not to be construed as limitations, for it will be apparent that various equivalents, changes and modifications may be resorted to without departing from the spirit and scope thereof and it is understood that such equivalent embodiments are intended to be included herein.