# Oxy fuel burner.

## Abstract
A torroidal oxy fuel burner capable of operating on a low pressure natural 985 supply comprises a barrel 101 Figure 2 having a conical opening 102 and a cone 103 which is disposed in the conical opening and defines one wall of a conical passageway 104 extending between the cone 103 and the conical opening 102 . In use, oxygen is passed through the passageway 104 and natural gas is directed into a fuel supply port 202,203 which is disposed radially out wardly of the outlet of the passageway. The oxygen leaving the conical passageway entrains the natural gas from the fuel supply port and forms a torroidal flame downstream of the cone. The burner can be fired on other gaseous or liquid fuels if desired.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A burner comprising a barrel having a conical opening, a cone disposed in said conical opening and defining one wall of a conical passageway extending between said cone and said conical opening, and at least one fuel supply port characterized in that at least one fuel supply port is disposed radially outwardly from the outlet of said conical passageway, the arrangement being such that, in use, oxygen leaving said outlet entrains fuel from said fuel supply port and forms a torroidal flame downstream of said cone. 2. A burner according to Claim 1, characterized in that said fuel supply port comprises an annulus surrounding the outlet of said conical passageway. 3. A burner according to Claim 1 or 2, characterized in that said fuel supply port communicates with a passage which is inclined towards the longitudical axis of said burner downstream of said cone. 4. A burner according to Claim 1, 2 or 3, characterized in that it includes an air supply port situated radially outwardly from the outlet of said conical passageway.

## Description
This invention relates to oxy fuel burners hereinafter referred to as burners . One of the most successful burners produced in recent times is diagramatically shown, in cross section, in Figure 1 of the accompanying drawings. This burner, which is commonly known as a torroidal burner, comprises a barrel 1 having a conical opening 2. A cone 3 is mounted in the conical opening as shown and defines one wall of a conical passageway 4 extending between the cone 3 and the conical opening 2. In use, oxygen is passed through the conical passageway 4 in the direction of the arrows 5. At the same time fuel, for example natural gas or oil, is introduced into the passageway 4 through an annulus 6 cut in the periphery of the cone 3 as shown. The resulting mixture leaves the conical passageway 4 through annular outlet 8 and is ignited.Because of the geometry of the burner, the mixture passing through annular outlet 8 tends to flow in the direction indicated by the arrows 7 which causes the burning mixture to adopt a very distinctive torroidal shape. This type of burner has two major advantages, viz 1. it can be fired over a very large range of heat outputs since the higher the flow through the passageway 4 the more the torroidal flow pattern tends to move towards the cone, there by inhibiting flame lift off and 2. the flame is very broad compared with most burners. This second advantage is particul arly important where the burner is being fired on a mixture of oxygen and fuel since such flames tend to be very narrow. Despite its advantages the torroidal burner has several disadvantages. One is that the minimum pressure in the passageway 4 must be about 12.5 psig in order for the torroidal flow pattern to form efficiently. This means that the fuel in annulus 6 must be raised to just over 12.5 psig before it can be injected into passageway 4. Whilst this coes not create any problems for liquid fuels, for example oils, a large and expensive compressor is needed when the fuel is natural gas which, with few exceptions, is generally only available at low pressure, i.e. 8 to 10 inches water cauge i.e. approximately 31 psig . Many attempts have been made to operate torroidal burners with low pressure natural gas but, to our knowledge, all such attempts have failed. We have now found that a torroidal burner can be modfired to operate successfully on low pressure natural gas. According to the present invention there is provided a burner comprising a barrel having a conical opening, a cone disposed in said conical opening and defining one wall of a conical passageway extending between said cone and said con cal opening, and at least one fuel supply port disposed radially outwardly from the outlet of said conical passageway, the arrangement being such that, in use, oxygen leaving said outlet entrains fuel from said fuel supply port and orms a torroidal flame downstream of said cone. Preferably, said fuel supply port comprises an annulus surrounding the outlet of said conical passageway. Advantageously, the fuel supply port communicates with a passage which is inclined towards the longitudinal axis of said burner downstream of said cone. If desired, the burner may also include an air supply port situated radially outwardly of the outlet of the conical passageway. Such air supply port may be situated radially inwardly or outwardly of the fuel supply port. Alternat very, the air supply port and the fuel supply port may be located equidistant from the longitudinal axis of the burner. For a better understanding of the invention reference will now be made to Figures 2 and 3 of the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 2 is a schematic cross section through a burner in accordance with the present invention and Figure 3 is a schematic cross section through another burner in accordance with the present invention. Referring to the drawings, Figure 2 is a schematic cross section through the experimental burner which we constructed to test whether our ideas would work. The burner, which is generally identified by reference numeral 1U0 comprises a barrel 101 having a conical opening 102. A cone 103 is mounted in the conical opening 102 and defines one wall of a conical passageway 104 which extends between the cone 103 and the conical opening 102. The barrel 101 and cone 103 form part of a mini torroidal burner having an outer diameter of 1.5 inches. An annular gas header 201 is mounted around the barrel 101 and is connected to six 3 8 inch internal diameter copper pipes which extend from the annular gas header 201 to the tip of the barrel 101 and are spaced equidistant therearound.Only two of these copper pipes are shown in Figure 2 and are identified by reference numerals 202 and 203. In order to start the burner, natural gas was introduced into the annular gas header 201 at 8 inches water gauge and was ignited as it left the copper pipes. The resulting flame was about 3 feet long and yellow. Oxygen was then introduced through the passageway 104 and left the burner through annular outlet 108. The flame shortened, became blue, and assumed the characteristic torroidal shape associated with torroidal burners. It was estimated that the burner 100 was firing at 1,000,000 BTU per hour. Figure 3 shows a modified form tie burner shown in figure 2. In partIcular, in addition to supplying oxygen through conical passageway 204, air at 28 inches water gauge is introduced through passage 205 and natural gas at 8 inches water gauge through passage 206. It will be noted that the outlets of passages 205 and 206 are annular slots and the passages themselves are, adjacent their outlets, inclined towards the longitudinal axis cf the burner downstream of the cone. It will be appreciated that provision should be made for water cooling the burners although this has not been shown in the figures. In addition, whilst the present invention is mainly intended for burners using gaseous fuels it would also be suitable for use with liquid fuels, for example oil. If desired, the burner could be operated by directing compressed air through the passageway between the cone and the conical opening rather than by using oxygen.