# Radar apparatus having spaced transmitting and receiving antennae.

## Abstract
In radar apparatus, to reduce long range clutter and chaff returns, a bistatic radar system is used with spaced directional transmitting and receiving antennae 10, 12 in Figure 1 , the directional patterns overlapping but with the null 18 on one side of one directional pattern being substantially parallel to the null 19 on the other side of the other directional pattern whereby signals from targets, clutter, etc. beyond a pre determined range R

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Radar apparatus having spaced directional transmitting and receiving scanning antennae characterised in that the allçenn e have directional patterns squintin inwardly to overlap in a region of interest but to redl7ce signals from distant targets. 2. Radar 3pparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the directional patterns and squinting are such as to give a substantial reduction in the overall radar gain for distant targets. 3. Radar apparatus having a transmitter feeding a transmitting antenna providing a main beam which is directional in a horizonta1 plane and a receiver fed from a receiving antenna having a main beam which is also directional in a horizontal plane, characterised in that the transmitting and receiving antennae are spaced apart horizontally with the main beams squinting cowardly to overlap in a region to one side of the line between the two antennae, the beams being so directed that a null on one side of the main beam of one antenna is substantially parallel to a null on the other side of the main beam of the other antenna. 4. Radar apparatus as claimed in claim 3 wherein means are provided for scanning the tso beams so that the overlap resin where radar coverage is to be obtained is scanned across a sector. 5. Radar apparatus as claimed in claim 4 wherein the scanning is effected mechanically, 6. Radar apparatus as claimed in claim 4 wherein the scanning is effected electrically. 7. Radar apparatus as claimed in claim 6 wherein the two antennae comprise frequency scanning linear rays. 8. Radar apparatus as claimed in any of claims 4 to 7 and having at least one further paint of antennae. 9, Radar apparatus as claimed in claim 3 wherein the transmitting antenna is arranged to provide 2 plurality of beams directed in different angular directions, and wherein the transmitter is arranged to provide dIstinctive signals on the various beams, 10. Radar apparatus as claimed in claim 3 wherein the transmitting antenna or the transmitter and transmitting antenna are arranged to provide a directiona seam, the direction of which can be scanned continuously across a sector. 11. Radar apparatus as claimed in either claim 9 or clam 10 wherein the receiving antenna is arranged to provide a plurality of separate receivina beams directed in different angular directions. 12. Radar apparatus as claimed in either claim 9 or claim 10 wherein the receiving antenna or the receiver and receiving antenna are arranged tc provide a directional beam, the direction cf which can be scanned continuously across 2 sector.

## Description
RADAR ARP RATUS HAVING SPACED TRANSMITTINGAND RECEIVING ANTENNAE This invention relates to radar apparatus and is concerned ore particularly with reducing the effects of long range clutter in a short range radar. For Ç surveillance radar the operating frequency usually has to be chosen as a compromise. A low frequency is desirable to give good anti clutter performance an MTI moving target indication mode whereas a high frequency enables a narrow beam width to be obtained thereby improving the performance under conditions of jamming. A particular problem which occurs n short range radars is that, although the limitation to a short range might be considered a permitting the use of a high PRF pulse repetition frequency , thereby improving the rate of data i put and hence the performance, this perrormance may be des roye by long range clutter returns which appear as s ond and third time round echoes, that is to say clutter returns from ranges grcater than the range corresponding to the false repetition period.Chaff is particularly troublesome since the velocity spreading on such long range echoes may be an order greater than the spreading on chaff returns within the nominal range bracket of the radar Thus operation in an MTI mode may not be effective in eliminating clutter from stationary Ci slowmoving targets, such a chaff, at long ranges. According to on aspect of the invention, there is provided bistatic radar apparatus having spaced directional transmitting and receiving scanning antennae with directional patterns squinting inwardly to overlap in a region of interest but to reduce signals from distant targets. The directional patterns and squinting are preferably such as to give a substantial reduction in the overall radar gain for distant targets, for example, by at least 70 db.The expression istan targets includes not only ships, aircraft and like mowing objects but also chaff and ground clutter. The present invention is particularly concerned with a short range radar and, by the above technique, the effect of responses from long range targets is reduced or eliminated. According to another aspect of the invention, in radar apparatus having a transmitter feeding a transmitting antenna providing a main beam which is directional In a horizontal plane and a receiver fed from a receiving antenna hiving a main beam which is also directional in a horizontal plane, the transmitting and receiving antennae are spaced apart horizontally with the main beams squinting inwardly to overlap in a region to one side of the line between the two antennae, the beams being so directed that a null on one side of the main beam from one antenna is substantially parallel to a null on the other side of the main beam of the other antenna. With this arrangement, the transmiting and receiving beams are arranged to intersect in the region of interest. At ranges beyond this region, because the transmitting and receiving beams do not overlap, signals from distant targets are significantly attenuated compared with a conventitnal radar using coincident transmitting and receiving beams. By making the first zeros of the transmitting and receiving beams on opposite sides thereof substantially parallel, the returns from all targets at ranges beyond the range of intersection of the maxima of the two beams are necessarily attenuated. In particular signals from distant chaff is attenuated. It is therefore possible to use a high pulse repetition rate, and thereby improve the wanted signal data rate, without the problems of second and third trace echoes. The maxima range at which overlap of the beams permits detection of targets thus not controls the maximum pulse repetition frequency which can be used. Th s permits of a higher pulse repetition rate and hence an improved data gathering rate than a conventional radar having coincident transmitting and receiving beams. It is readily possible to obtain adequate performance to a suitable minimum range by suitably shaping of the transmitting and receiving beams on the sides thereof opposite to the aforemntioned nulls. It will be appreciated that, for these very short ranges, signal strength is not a problem and adequate returns can readily be obtained. Means may be provided for scanning the two beams so that the overlap region where radar coverage is to be obtained is scanned across the sector.Such scanning may be effected mechanically or electrically, for example by using frequency scanning linear arrays for the two antennae. It will be appreciated that the required limitation of maximum range can be obtained only if the scanning is .limited to a suitable region to one side of the line between the two antennae but typically coverage of a sector of about 45 can readily be obtained by scanning in this way all round coverage can be obtained by using further pairs of beams. Instead of scanning the beams over sectors, it is alternatively possible to use for the transmitter and separately for the receiver, antennae viking multiple beams with the transmitter radiating distinctive signals for example coded signals or signals of a different frequency, on each beam. The number of transmitting and receiving beams need not be the same and it would be possible for example to use a scanning transmitting beam with i multiple pencil receiving beam.The use of multiple beams enables very narrow beams to be employed whilst still obtaining adequate coverage from a minimum range to a required maximum range Thus, considered more generally, a receiving antenna arranged to provide a plurality of separate receiving beams directed in different angular directions or a reciting antenna, or receiving antenna and receiver, arranged to provide a directional beam, the direction of which can be scanned continuously over a sector, may be utilised in conjunction with a transmitting antenna arranged to provide a plurality of beams directed in different angular directions, the transmitter providing distinctive signals on the various beams or with a transmitting antenna, or transmitter and transmitting antenna, arranged to provide a directional beam, the direction of which can be scanned continuously across a sector. The above described form of radar apparatus has a maximum range from which signals will be received and hence is of particular advantage in reducing the effects of long range clutter on a short range radar. Further advantages will be immediately apparent. If a responsive stand off jammer at a range beyond t e maximum range of overlap of the two beams should lock onto the transmitted frequency, then signals from this jammer will only be received on side lobes of the receiving system and are thus severely attenuated. If the transmitting antenna is used for reception, then the system can be operated as a bistatic radar for passive detection and tracking of self screening jammers. in the following description, reference will be made to the accoinpanying drawings in which Figure 1 is a diagram for explaining the general principles of the invention Figures 2A and 2B are graphical diagrams illustrating the beam shapes of two antennae employed Qn one embodiment of the invention Figure 3 is another graphical diagram showing the relationship between the received power and range for a target on the centre line of the coverage area for one embodiment of the invention as compared with a conventional monostatic radar Figures 4A, 4B, 4C and 4D are further graphical diagrams showing the relationship between received power and angular direction for a number of different ranges Figure 5 is a further diagram illustrating the maximum range f differing angular directions of the beam Figure 6 is a diagram illustrating one arrangement of antenna and Figure 7 is a diagram for explaining the use of multi beam antennae in an embodiment of the present invention. Referring to Figure 1 there are shown diagrammaticallv a transmitting antenna 10 coupled to a transmitter 11 for radiating short duration, pulses of microwave energy.Reflections of these pulses from targets are received at a receiving antennae 12 coupled to a receiver 13. The two antennae are spaced apart a distance S and each provides a directional beam, the transmitting beam being indicated diagrammatically at 15 and the receiving beam at 16. These two beams overlap in the shaded area frown at 17. The beam 15 has a null to one side of it in a direction indicated by the arrow 18. The beam 16 has a null on its other side indicated by the line 19 and these two lines are parallel and normal to the base line between the two antennae in the arrangement illustrated. Assuming each antenna has a dimension D in the horizontal plane and the radiation has a wavelength for each antenna, the angle to the first zero is 1 The transmitting and receiving beams must be inclined to tne base line by this angle and hence the base line separation required for a nominal maximum range of R 0 is S 2 Ro DFor example, if D 1 metre, 0,0177 m 17 GHz andR0 12 km, the base line is 425 metres. With tapered illumination pencil beam antennae, the beam width increases for a given antenna aperture size and hence the base line has to be increased. For example, with half cosine illumination t23 dB side lobes the angle to the first zero is 3 2D and hence the separation should be increased to o DIn general the separation is 2R o O where 80 is the angle to the first zero. With pencil beam antennae the coverage along the centre line extends from about Ro 2 to 3Ro 2 and some tails should be introduced on to one side of each beam in order to provide short range coverage, as indicate by the dashed lines 20 in Figure 1. Figures 2A and 2B illustrate respectively beam shapes for the two antenna in terms of the angle of inclination e to the 0 base line. The antenna aperture required to produce this beam shape is about 2 eo. The tail should extend to e1 e0 o Ro Rmin where Rmin is the minimum range of interest. Figure 3 is a graphical diagram showing, by the full line curve, the received power on a decibel scale relative to a target at range Ro versus range for a target one the centreline using the antennae of Figures 2A and 2B and compares this with the normal 1 R4 law applicable to conventional monostatic radars which is shown by a dashed line. The received power is constant up to the range R0 which is the required maximum range and falls off very rapidly beyond this maximum range. Figures 4A, 4B, 4C and 4D are graphical diagrams showing transverse plots of received power at differing R ranges 2Ro, Ro, o and respectively. In each of these 2 7 diagrams, the dashed line shows the one way power distribution for the left hand beam, the chain line shows the one way power distribution for the right hand beam and the full line shows the combined, i.e. two way power distribution using one beam for transmission and the other for reception. At 2Ro and at R0 the plot is essentially a cosine squared shape with an equivalent beam width of abJlt 5 2. At short ranges, the field is substantially uniform over the central section, but exhibits ears close to the edges of the sector.However, the height of the ears is comparatively small, e.g. 7 dB at a range of R0 4. In contrast, a monostatic radar exhibits a 24 dB increase in received power atRo 4. . Thus over a rectangle defined by the base line and th maximum and minimum ranges, the power received from targets or clutter at any range is reasonably uniform. Outside this rectangle, the received power falls off rapidly. In order to coyer a sector1 the beams must be scanned mechanicaily or electronically, or, alternatively, multiple beams must be provided. The basic coverage which can be provided is illustrated in Figure 5. Here o is the initial inclination angle o each beam to the base line and 3 0 is the 3 dB beam width. The locus of maximum range shown by the line 30 is a circle of diameter S 2 cosec 2 o lying approximately tangential to the base line. The cycle passes thro gh the twe ends of the base ine The maximum range normal to the base line Ro is S 2 cot o. It will be apparent that when the beams have moved through 900 from this position looking normal to the base line they are diverging, rather than crossing. Thus the angular coverage should be restricted to say 450 the maximum range at the extremes of this coverage is R0 . T,7o conventional xadar antennae could be adapted to he bistatic configuration of the present invention by locking their rotations with an offset of 26 0 This arrangement is not particularly attractive, since it only provides satisfactory cover over one quarte of the complete scan Pnase scanning or frequency scanning linear arrays provide a simple way of effecting the required scanning for a bistatic radar of the present invention Frequencyscanning appears particularly attractive from economic considerations, since all that is required is two endfed linear arrays Such a construction is shown inFigure 6. The arrays 35, 36 are serpentine fed in order to enhance the squint rate.For example, a fold ratio of about lO l at 17 GHz will give a sensitivity of 20 MHz per degree. The beam shaping is performed by an external lens 37 or by a reflector, rather han incorporated in the array design, since both arrays mus be fed in the same direction, whereas beam spoiling ,s required in opposite directions. Four such pairs of antennae are required to provide all round cover. Another very convenient arrangement is to provide multiple pencil beams for both transmission and reception, as illustrated in Figure 7. The antennae are shown at 40, 41. Each transmitted beam would radiate a different coc nr use a different frequency. The various beams are such that, over the whole of the required coverage region, a target can be detected by the appropriate choice of one transmitting beam and one receiving beam. This coverage region can thus be considered as being divided up into a number of discrete boxes, such c 42, each associated with one transmitting and one receiving beam.Area coverage can be obtained by sequential selection of boxes In the diagram, some of the transmitting beams are indicated by symbols such as To, T1 and T2 and receiving beams by symbols Ro R1, 22 The boxes can thus be identified as for example T2R1, In order to provide short range cover, each receiver beam must be able to receive a number of transmitted beams specifically 2N beams where N is the ratio of maximum to minimum range2. Alternatively, the beam formlng networks could be arranged to provide shaped T and R beams. The arrangement of Figure 7 thus provides a radar with area coverage which can locate targets by ident fying the approxiate box, Instead of having multiple pencil beams for both transmission and reception, one of the antennae may be a scanning antenna giving a beam which can be scanned continuously across a sector. In particular considerations of economy may lead to a multiple pencil receiving b am associated with a smaller number of scanning transmitter beams. At the nominal maximum range of the above described radar apparatus, in clear conditions, the two way beam pat tern is cal to that of a conventional monostati radar and hence the signal to noise ratio is the same.At shorter ranges, the received signal to noise does r increase. Thus there is no need to apply swept gain to the receiver. This is particularly advantageous when high PR2 s, with many range abmbiguities, are employed.However, the same area is covered by successive beams atthe shorter ranges and improved detectibilitv results from longer non coherent integration times. Since the coverage of any one box of Figure 7 is essentially a rectangle, the angular accuracy degrades at short range.One way round this problem is to provide an additional receive at the transmitting site, gated by the main receiver, and compare the amplitudes of the two received signals. As is evident from Figures 4C and 4D, there is a substantia difference in amplIude at the two sites for targets off boresight, which becomes more marked as the range reduces. The above described bistatic radar apparatus has a much improved performance against clutter compared with a conventional monostatic radar, For ground clutter, both the echoing area and received power are substantially independent of range out to Ro. For volumetric clutter such as rain anti chaff, the echoing area and received power are reduced as the range reduces duc to the elevation beam shape. The signal to clutter ratio at R for 0 the radar apparatus cf the present invention is the same as that of an equivalent monostatic radar and, provided an adequate signal to clutter ratio can be achieved atR , the performance at close ranges should be satisfactory.The bistatic radar is particularly suitable for highPRF syste nss with many range ambIguities within the working range RO, since clutter fold over does not produce a disastrous reduction in signal to clutter ratio. For example, consider a system which uses a PRF of 50 kHz and has a nominal range of 12. km. There are 4 range ambiguities and targets at 12 km range have to compete with clutter at 12, 9, 6 and 3 km. With a conventional rtornstatic radar, the relative level of power received from ground clutter at these ranges it 0, 3.75, 9 and 18 dB, resulting in a reduction in signal to clutter ratio of 18.6 dB.With the bistatic arrangement, all the clutter ranges produce the same received signal level and the reduction is limited to 6 dB, i.e. an improvement of 12.6 dB in signal to clutter ratio.