# METHODS FOR MONITORING METAL ION CONCENTRATIONS IN PLATING BATHS

## Claims
Verfahren zum Überwachen der Konzentration von Metallionen in einem Metallisierbad, das zur Metallabscheidung auf einem Substrat verwendet wird, enthaltend die folgenden Schritte

## Description
This invention relates to methods for monitoring the concentration of metal ions in a metal plating bath used for metal deposition on a substrate. Metal plating is of interest to the electronic industry because of the high cost of many metals, which for reasons of economy requires their use in the form of thin film plated on other less costly metals or on nonconducting substrates. The metallurgical properties of the metal deposit, however, depend on the composition of the plating baths, as well as the plating parameters. For example, the concentration of metal ions in the plating bath affects the plating rate and the plating potential. Such parameters as these tend to influence the nature and magnitude of inclusions incorporated in the deposit. Inclusions in films are known to affect metallurgical properties such as hardness, ductility, uniformity, and bondability, among others. In order to ensure consistent performance of these metal films, it is necessary to maintain the concentration of the metal ions in the plating bath within a specified range and to accurately predict the level of metal ion concentration within that range. In the prior art, in situ electrochemical techniques for continuously monitoring and immediately determining the concentration of metal ions in a plating bath are unknown however, techniques involving the removal of samples from the plating bath for ex situ analysis have been described, but these cannot be adapted to automation, are time consuming and produce results not representative of current bath conditions, which can change rapidly and unpredictably particularly in baths where high volume throughput is occurring under manufacturing conditions. In US A 4132605, is more particularly directed to additives in electroplating baths, but also suggests compounds to modify the deposition rate, and the monitoring thereof by determining the peak stripping currents. In the Technical Digest n 43 July 1976 pp. 23 24, an article An electro analytical technique for analyzing Cu, Ag, Au in the presence of cyanide ions by R. Haynes et al, there is described a method for analyzing the concentration of total Cu... in an electroplating solution, using the determination of the diffusion limiting currents. Therefore, the object of the present invention is to describe electrochemical methods that are capable of determining metal ion concentrations continuously and currently in a plating bath and that are accurate, well within the acceptable standard for manufacturing operations. This object is achieved by the invention as characterized in claim 1. The method, which is particularly well adapted for use in solutions for metal deposition on a substrate where the diffusion limiting current cannot be well established, includes operating the rotating disk electrode system in a solution whose concentration of the metal ions to be deposited is held constant at various predetermined concentrations within a range of concentrations. The rotating disk electrode system includes a test electrode, a counter electrode and a reference electrode. Next, an electrical potential is applied to the working electrode with respect to the reference electrode, while the metal ion concentration of the solution is maintained constant and the rotating disk electrode is operated at various constant speeds within an acceptable range of speeds. The current produced in the working electrode that results from the application of the potential at the working electrode associated with each of the speeds of the rotating electrode system over each of the discrete metal ion concentrations of the solution is recorded. A relationship is established between paired values of the current measured in the working electrode and the corresponding speed of the rotating disk electrode. From this relationship, a diffusion parameter is established for each of the metal ion concentrations at which data were taken, and the current is calculated from the relationship between the diffusion parameter and the speed of the rotating electrode system. In this way, a calibration relationship is established between the diffusion limiting current and each of the metal ion concentrations at which the current values were measured. The rotating disk electrode system is then operated in the metal plating bath, an electric potential is applied to the working electrode and current is measured at the working electrode. Upon consulting the calibration relationship, the measured current is used to establish the metal concentration in the plating bath. The features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following more particular description of the preferred embodiments of the invention illustrated in the accompanying drawings. When electric potential is applied to an electrode that is immersed in a solution containing ions of a metal to be deposited on the electrode, the potential of the electrode is the control parameter that causes the species in solution to gain an electron reduction or to lose an electron oxidation . As the potential of the electrode becomes more negative versus the reference electrode, it becomes more strongly reducing therefore, the reduction reaction taking place on the electrode can be controlled by controlling the electrode potential. The current, a measure of the electron flow, is due to electron transfer which takes place when oxidation or reduction occurs on the electrode surface. Referring first to Figure 1, a rotating disk electrode RDE system 10 is seen operating in a plating tank or in a flow through side arm 12 that holds an electrolytic solution containing metal ions to be deposited or a substrate immersed in the electrolytic solution. The rotating disk electrode system includes a working electrode 14, which can be made of the same material as the substrate on which the metal ions are to be deposited, mounted at the lower end surface of a Teflon cylinder 16, which is supported for rotation in the electrolytic solution over a wide range of speed. The working electrode is the electrode where the reaction of interest occurs. A stable potential is maintained by a potentiostat 20 with respect to a reference electrode 18 also immersed in the electrolytic solution. The most common reference electrode used is saturated calomel S.C.E. although silver silver chloride is sometimes employed. A counter electrode 22, made of a conductive material that is chemically inert, such as platinum, gold or graphite, is the electrode where a reaction opposite to that of the working electrode occurs. For example, when a cathodic reaction is occurring at the working electrode, an anodic reaction occurs at the counter electrode, and current flowing between the working and counter electrodes as a result of the reaction is measured. Current in the RDE system is passed between the counter electrode and working electrode, but no current passes through the reference electrode. During operation of the system, some means should be provided to remove oxygen from the solution perhaps by bubbling pure argon or another inert gas through the solution prior to taking measurements. The potentiostat 20 applies an electric potential to the solution through the working electrode with respect to the reference electrode or S.C.E., and in this way causes an electrochemical reaction to occur. Current generated or caused by the reaction is measured or recorded by an electrometer or recorder 24. The potential at the reference electrode is stable with time and is the potential against which other potentials are compared and measured. The potentiostat 20 controls the circuit to maintain a potential between the working and reference electrodes without drawing current through the reference electrode. A potential programmer 26 permits the circuit to vary the potential applied to the cell by the potentiostat according to some predetermined rate that varies with time or some other parameter or by way of the application of a voltage waveform. Therefore, the programmer includes a timer and may include a pulse generator. Usually incorporated in the same instrument as the potentiostat 20 is a current measuring device used to measure or monitor the current flowing between the working electrode and the counter electrode. The recorder 24 is commonly a X Y recorder, oscilloscope or computer. When an electrode is immersed in a solution, it attracts ion or water molecules, which, although electrically neutral, have positive and negative charges associated with opposite ends of the molecule. The electrode also attracts ions carrying an opposite charge that are held near the metal surface by forces of electrostatic attraction. In this way, an electric double layer, whose thickness is approximately 10 20 Å, is formed which has the characteristics of a condenser with a measurable capacitance. Metal ions from the solution reach by diffusion or convection the double layer where charge transformation occurs and ad atoms diffuse on the surface of the metal electrode until they are incorporated into the metal lattice. This process constitutes a spontaneous flow of cathodic current represented in Figure 2 as the relationship between the potential and the current flowing. Region A of Figure 2 is the kinetic region of the process wherein the deposition of gold is controlled by the activation energy level at which the process occurs. The effect of agitation, one of the kinetic factors, is controlled by the use of the rotating disk electrode system. While the process is occurring in the Region A, the electrical potential at the working electrode, the driving force that causes the deposition, increases and the current increases proportionally. However, when potential exceeds a first critical magnitude, the current increases rapidly and nonlinearly for incremental changes in potential. When this first critical potential is exceeded, virtually every ion at the electrode surface is reduced to an atom. When the process is operating in this region, designated zone B in Figure 2, both kinetic and diffusion factors control the process this region is referred to as the mixed region. As the potential increases yet further past a second critical magnitude into the region of Figure 2 designated zone C, the plating process is entirely controlled by diffusion effects. In this region, every ion present at the electrode is immediately converted to an atom because of the high potential applied therefore, the arrival rate of ions at the electrode, which controls the process, is a direct function of the ion concentration in the plating solution. Hence, the rate of increase of current with increasing potential declines markedly and approaches a limiting current value at which current is constant, or nearly so, regardless of the magnitude of potential. Convection involves the movement of substantial quantities of the solution relative to the electrode due to thermal, mechanical or other disturbances of the solution. In the model forming the basis for the principles upon which the method according to this invention is practiced, it is assumed that convection maintains the concentration of all species uniformly and equal to the bulk values up to a certain distance δ from the electrode and that, within that distance, the solution is stagnant and mass transfer occurs by way of diffusion only. The thickness of the diffusion boundary layer δ can be determined from the relationship where n is the number of electrons transferred, F is a faraday, A is the area of the working electrode of the RDE and C These equations express a relationship between the diffusion limiting current and three quantities D, ν and C, any one of which could be determined experimentally by means of the RDE provided the other two are known. Ions arrive at the edge of the diffusion layer by convection, as shown schematically in Figure 3. But use of the rotating disk electrode system reduces substantially the importance of convection effects in the solution. The ions then diffuse across the diffusion layer, which is stagnant, to the electrode surface where charge transfer occurs and the ions are converted into atoms. The method according to this invention provides a technique for monitoring continuously and automatically the concentration of metal ions in plating baths. This object is achieved by operating a rotating disk electrode system in the plating bath or in a cell in a flow through side arm of the plating tank during the plating process. The RDE system provides known and reproducible mass transfer conditions for which the hydrodynamic equations and the convective diffusion equation have been solved rigorously for the steady state. The mathematical treatment that forms the basis for the predictive ability of this invention is derived from the diffusion layer approach. Accordingly, it is assumed that convection maintains the concentration of all species uniform and equal to the bulk values up to the distance δ, previously defined. In solutions where the diffusion limiting current is well established and clearly defined, the method according to this invention establishes a relationship between diffusion limiting current values and the corresponding metal ion concentrations. This relationship is a calibration relationship established preferably in a solution whose concentration of metal ions can be held constant while the diffusion limiting current is determined. Then the concentration is varied over a range of concentrations so that a diffusion limiting current ion concentration relationship is defined within the range of concentrations that will occur in the plating bath. Figure 4 illustrates a family of curves relating current at the working electrode that results from a range of electric potential applied to the working electrode with respect to S.C.E., the reference electrode, in a plating bath where the diffusion limiting current is well defined. Notice in Figure 4 the presence of the three zones the kinetic region, the mixed region and the diffusion limiting region, described with reference to Figure 2. The method that produced the data from which Figure 4 was constructed includes operating the rotating disk electrode at a constant speed, scanning the voltage at the working electrode at the rate of approximately 10 millivolts per second, measuring the current continuously while the voltage is being scanned and repeating the voltage scan and current measurement for each of several ion concentration levels within the solution. The curves a j correspond to each of the ion concentrations in the solution. Figure 4 shows that when the potential at the working electrode approaches 1.5 volts, the diffusion limiting current is well defined for each of the ion concentrations. Figure 5 shows the calibration relationship between the diffusion limiting current corresponding to 1.5 volts with respect to S.C.E. and the range of the metal ion concentrations in the solution. After the calibration curve of Figure 5 is established, the rotating disk electrode system 10 is operated at the speed at which the calibration data were taken in a plating bath whose range of metal ion concentration can vary unpredictably. When the RDE is operating in the plating bath at the speed at which the calibration curve was constructed, an electrical potential in the limiting current region is applied to the working electrode with respect to the reference electrode and the resulting current is continuously monitored. The resulting current is used as a ordinate to enter Figure 5 the abscissa corresponding to that ordinate is the metal ion concentration in the plating bath. This technique has been used to predict the ion concentration of gold in a gold plating bath wherein the composition of the bath was as follows 1 10 grams per liter of Au as KAu CN ₂ 3.14 x 10 ² molar of KCN 1 molar KCl and 0.1 molar of K₂CO₃. The pH of the plating bath was 10.8 and the temperature was 50 degrees Centigrade. Oxygen was removed from the solution by bubbling pure argon through the solution prior to taking measurements. The method according to this invention has been found to continuously indicate the concentration of gold ions in the plating bath by monitoring changes in the limiting current in the plating bath from which the concentration of the gold ions is determined. However, when the diffusion limiting current for the deposition reaction is not well defined, for example, when the relationship between current and the potential applied to the working electrode has the shape of the region D in Figure 2 rather than that of region C, the method according to this invention is altered somewhat to produce an accurate means for continuously predicting ion concentration in the plating bath. When the diffusion limiting current is not well defined the current at the working electrode continues to increase at a high rate as potential increases. Such a situation can occur when a secondary reaction commences before the diffusion limiting current for deposition is observed. The partial current for the secondary reaction is then superimposed on the current for the metal deposition reaction, thus making it difficult to experimentally observe the diffusion limiting current. When these conditions pertain, the current in the mixed region, i.e. region B of Figure 2, can be used to determine the experimental value of the diffusion parameter, B. Under these conditions, the mixed control current at the working electrode i involved in the electron transfer reaction is controlled by both kinetic and diffusion effects and can be described by the relationship In this case, however, where diffusion limiting current is not well defined for a particular potential of the working electrode over a range of metal ion concentrations in a plating bath, the previously described techniques will not produce a linear relationship between current and concentration. It has been discovered, however, that the diffusion parameter, B, can be determined experimentally from the relationship between 1 i and 1 ω that results when a rotating disk electrode system is operated over a range of speeds, the current of the working electrode is measured when the RDE speed is held constant, and a known constant voltage is applied between the working electrode and the reference electrode. A typical example of the relationship thus established is shown in Figure 6 for a constant bulk metal ion concentration and a constant applied electrical potential. If the curve established by this method does not pass through the origin, the distance from the intercept of the 1 i axis to the origin is a measure of the current attributable to kinetic effects, i.e., 1 i Changes in the value of B resulting from changes in the metal ion concentration can then be used to monitor the concentration of metal ions in the plating bath. The data used to construct the curve of Figure 6 are recorded when the ion concentration is a constant value. Therefore, a family of curves can be established similar to that of Figure 6 by changing the value of the concentration of metal ions in the bath while maintaining the potential of the working electrode constant. In this way, the values for the diffusion parameter for various trial values of concentration can be used to establish a calibration relationship. The magnitude of the diffusion parameter conventionally is calculated from the relationship After the magnitude of the diffusion parameter is established for several metal ion concentrations in the solution, the corresponding magnitude of the mixed control current can be established from the relationship In this way, a calibration relationship between the mixed control current and the corresponding metal ion concentration for a given potential applied to the working electrode in a plating bath wherein a rotating disk electrode is operating over a range of speed can be used to predict the metal ion concentration in the plating bath. Accordingly a calibration curve is defined similar to that of Figure 5 except that the ordinate is the mixed control current instead of the diffusion limiting current. In order to practice the method in a solution whose diffusion limiting current is not well defined, the rotating disk electrode system is operated in the plating bath preferably at a speed that is within the speed range in which the data for the calibration relationship were established for the solution. Also the electric potential applied to the working electrode is preferably the same as the potential that was applied to develop the calibration data. When this is done, the metal ion concentration in the plating bath can be continuously monitored and accurately determined by measuring the resultant current at the working electrode of the RDE system. That measured current is the ordinate used to enter the calibration curve from which the corresponding metal ion concentration is read from the calibration curve as the actual metal ion concentration of the plating bath. This latter technique has been used to monitor the concentration of gold ions in a gold plating bath having the following composition 8 grams per liter of Au as KAu CN ₂ 100 grams per liter of citric acid and KOH to bring the solution to a pH of 7.6. The solution was maintained at a temperature of 23 degrees C and the applied potential was scanned at 100 m volts per second. In a solution with such a low pH value, the diffusion limiting current is not discernible due to the onset of hydrogen evolution current. However, by employing this method, an accurate determination of the metal ion concentration in the plating bath has been made.