# Wellhead structure and method of producing same.

## Abstract
A wellhead structure having a body 10 of a martensitic alloy with opening therein and a austenitic cladding lining the openings wherein the body, the cladding and the interface therebetween all have a strength of at least 75,000 psi and a ductility of at least ten percent. The method of producing a wellhead structure with an alloy steel body having openings therein and a corrosion resistant alloy cladding lining with openings including the steps of lining openings with the cladding by hot isostatic pressure process wherein the temperature does not exceed 2200 F and the cycle is held at temperature for less than four hours.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A wellhead structure comprising a body of martensitic alloy having openings therein, and an austenitic cladding lining the openings of said body, the strength and ductility of said body, said cladding and across the interface between said body all being greater than 75,0t0 psi in strength and ten percent in ductility. 2. A wellhead structure according to claim 1 wherein said martensitic alloy is a 2 1 4Cr lMo steel said austenitic cladding is a precipitation hardened ccrrosio resistant alloy. 3. A wellhead structure according to claim 2 wherein said martensitic alloy includes less than 15 points of carbon in the surfaces of said openings. 4. A wellhead structure according to claim 2 or 3 wherein said austenitic cladding is Inconel 625 type alloy. 5. A wellhead structure according to claim 4 wherein said Inconel 625 type alloy has a columbium content is between 3.4 to 4.1 percent. 6. A clad structure comprising a base material of a martensitic steel alloy having a carbon content less than 15 points, and a clad material of a corrosion resistant alloy bonded to said base material wherein the materials have a room temperature tensile yield strength greater than 75,000 psi and a ductility greater than ten percent in the base material, in the clad material and across the interface between the base and the clad materials. 7. The method of producing an improved structure having a corrosion resistant cladding wherein the cladding functions as a part of the structure in strength including the steps of securing a structural wall to a base structure of martensitic alloy steel having Icss than 15 points of carbon with the wall spaced from the surface to be cladded to form a space therebetween, evacuating gases from said space, filling said space with a powdered metal which is corrosion resistant, subjecting the base structure, the structural wall and the powdered metal to a pressure of approximately 15,000 psi and a temperature of 2,000 F for a period of between 1 3 4 to 2 1 4 hours, and cooling the resulting cladded structure. 8. The method of producing a martensitic alloy structure having opening therein lined with cladding including the steps of lining the openings of the structure with a corrosion resistant austenitic alloy by hot isostatic pressure process so that the lining1 the structure and the interface therebetween all have a tensile yield strength of at least 75,000 psi and a ductility of at least ten percent.

## Description
DESCRIPTION Wellhead equipment used for drilling into deep sour wells must be capable of withstanding the hostile environments encountered which include pressures greater than 15,000 psi, temperatures greater than 3000F and constituents including one or more of hydrogen sulfide, carbon monoxide, and chlorides. The American Petroleum Institute has established strength guidelines for use in constructing safe and interchangeable wellhead components. In order to meet the API requirements for construction of components in equipment for pressure ratings of 15,000 psi or more, the materials used must have greater than a 75,000 psi yield strength, 100,000 psi tensile strength, 17 percent elongation, and 35 percent reduction of area in as measured by a room temperature tensile test. Alloys such as Inconel 625, Hastalloy C 276 and MP 35N which can withstand such corrosive environments do not usually possess the required yield strength of 75,000 psi, and are cold worked to obtain higher strength in tubular applications. Also these alloys are very expensive and almost impossible to fabricate into large wellhead equipment. There have been many efforts to provide structures having a composite material that would be resistant to a highly corrosive, high pressure, high temperature environment by providing a corrosion resistant material combined with a high strength base material in which the corrosion resistant material is so integrated with the base material that it may be considered as a load bearing part of the composite struc ture when making strength calculations. Prior to the present invention fully wrought clad structures suitable for containing high pressure, high temperature highly corrosive environments did not have an interface of sufficient strength and ductility to allow the clad material to be considered as a part of the base material in design calculations.It is believed that the reason for the weakness of the interface portion of prior clad structures has resulted from the carbide precipitation in the interface. U.S. Patent No. 4,145,481 to D. K. Gupta et al discloses corrosion resistant metal articles produced by a hot isostatic pressure process utilizing a superalloy which is stated to be IN792 Hf, as the base material which is plasma spray coated with an overlay of CoCrAlY and then aluminized by pack cementation prior to being subjected to hot isostatic pressure. Such overlay would not qualify under API Type III to be used in the strength calculations with the base material. U.S. Patent No. 4,178,417 to T. Oda et al discloses a clad steel material wherein a low carbon steel base metal is bonded to an austenitic stainless steel, nickel or nickel alloy by a rolling or explosion process. The present invention relates to an improved clad structure suitable for use in wellheads on deep sour wells and its method of being produced. The improved clad structure includes a base material of a steel alloy having 2k chromium, 1 molybdenum and having a carbon content between .08 and .15 at the surface to be clad, and a corrosion resistant alloy cladding, such as Inconel 625 as manufactured by the International Nickel Co., Inc., of Huntington, WestVirginia, wherein the yield strength and ductility in the base metal, in the cladding metal and across the interface between the base metal and cladding metal are all above 75,000 psi yield strength and ten percent ductility.The improved method of producing such clad structure includes providing a layer of powdered cladding material adjacent the surface of the base material which is to be cladded, the base.material having less than 15 points of carbon at the surface to be clad and the cladding material being a corrosive resistant alloy, subjecting the base material and the cladding material to pressure and heating of approximately 15,000 psi and 2,0000F and holding the materials at such temperature for a period of two hours and then cooling the material and reducing the pressure thereon. An object of the present invention is to provide an improved clad structure having a corrosion resistant cladding material wherein both the base material, the cladding material and the interface have similar yield strengths and ductility properties which are respectively, at least 75,000 psi yield strength and ten percent ductility. Another object is to provide an improved clad steel structure which, when used to contain a corrosive environment, is not larger than an unclad alloy steel structure would be if it contained a similar but non corrosive environment. A further object is to provide an improved method of making a high strength clad steel structure for containing a highly corrosive environment. Still another object is to provide an improved method of combining a precipitation hardened corrosion resistant cladding alloy with a martensitic strengthened alloy base material having necessary strengths and ductilities in the clad material, the base material and across the interface between the two materials. These and other objects and advantages of the present invention are hereinafter set forth and explained with reference to the drawings wherein FIGURE 1 is a photomicrograph of a section through the interface of a hip clad steel of the prior art taken at a magnification of 500x. FIGURE 2 is a photomicrograph of a section through the interface of the improved hip clad steel of the present invention taken at a magnification of 500x. FIGURE 3 is a sectional view of a valve structure which illustrates the manner in which the corrosion resistant material is bonded within the base material. FIGURE 4 is a graph illustrating the effect on yield strength and tensile strength of two types of Inconel 625 responsive to tempering temperatures. FIGURE 5 is a graph of the effect on tensile and yield strength of the temperatures of tempering. FIGURE 6, 7 and 8 are graphs showing the response of the alloys to heat treatment. FIGURES 9 and 9A are photographs of two types of failure of tensile specimen. FIGURE 1 illustrates the microstructure of a clad steel at the interface between the base material which is a 2k Cr, 1 Mo alloy steel or an AISI 4130 steel and the clad material which is Inconel Alloy 625. The interface between the base material and the cladding material is near the bottom in the figure, and the dark particles above the interface are the carbide Cr23C6 precipitants which cause the interface to be brittle. The cladding material is not allowed to be considered in making strength calculations for a structure such as illustrated in FIGURE 1. Thus, if the cladding material is not considered in such strength calculations but only as a lining to protect against a corrosive environment then the resulting structure will be substantially larger than would be necessary if the structure did not contain a corrosive environment. This would necessitate redesign of API flanges and other associated equipment. The improved clad steel of the present invention is shown in FIGURE 2. It should be noted that there are no large particles of precipitated carbide in the interface as contrasted with the large carbide particles shown in the clad steel represented in FIGURE 1. In the improved clad structure of the present invention, the preferred base material is a 2h chrome, 1 molybdenum nickel alloy steel with carbon from 8 to 15 points, all as shown in Table I. Table I Component Specification Carbon 0.08 0.15 Manganese 0.40 0.60 Phosphorus 0.030 Max. Sulfur 0.030 Max. Silicon 0.15 0.50 Chromium 2.00 2.50 Nickel 0.50 Max. Molybdenum 0.90 1.10 Aluminum 0.05 Max. Internal The preferred cladding material is Inconel 625 type nickel base alloy. The 625 type chemistry range used as the clad chemistry in this patent is as shown in Table II TABLE II C Mn Fe S Si Cr Al Ti Cb Ta Mo Ni MIN 20.0 3.40 8.0 Bal MAX .10 .50 5.0 .015 .50 23.0 .40 .40 4.10 10.0 Bal Certain restricted portions of the Inconel 625 chemistry can be precipitation strengthened and were used in this application because wellhead equipment can not be cold worked to gain strength. This allows the alloy to be precipitation hardened as shown in FIGURE 4. Note that the chemistry range of 625 is 3.1 to 4.1 percent Cb columbium but only 3.5 to 4.1 percent Cb offers adequate properties.Lower columbium contents in this alloy do not allow the alloy to be precipitation hardened in such a time temperature combination that allows for co treatment of the steel as also shown inFIGURE 4. The base steel utilized is a martensitic strengthened one, such as 2 1 4Cr 1Mo, which has the necessary hardenability in heavy sections to meet API Type III strengths while allowing use of lower carbon for strengthening. These alloys are readily fabricated into wellhead equipment shape by forging. The tempering response of this type steel is shown in FIGURE 5. The joint response to heat treatment of a typical combination of the above alloys is shown in FIGURES 6, 7 and 8. The key here is that they are co heat treatable to meetAPI Type III properties. Another key to the process is the minimization of brittle chrome carbides forming at the clad base interface. FIGURE 9 illustrates two types of tensile failure of tests conducted across the bond layer. FIGURE 9A shows a brittle failure near the bond layer which does not meet the 10 percent minimum elongation. The failure actually occurs in the 625 along a line of chromium carbides that form as a result of carbon migrating from the steel into the 625 during hipping and heat treatment. The effect of carbon level in the base material on the formation of this brittle phase in the 625 is shown inFIGURES 1 and 2. It is shown that as the carbon is lowered from .25 FIGURE 1 as in a 4130 type alloy to the 0.09 FIGURE 2 percent level of the preferred base material the precipitation of this phase is minimized. The cladding material is Inconel Alloy 625 wherein theCb columbium content is between 3.5 and 4.1 to provide age hardenability. The improved clad steel as described above was tested in tension in the base material, in the clad material and across the interface. Following is a summary of the results of typical testing Yield Ultimate Strength Strength Elongation ksi ksi PercentBase Material 91 105 24Interface 94 105 17Clad Material 92 157 43From these results it can be seen that the improved clad steel maintains a yield strength above 75 ksi with ductility above ten percent throughout its entire structure.Such properties fully meet the American Petroleum Institute API Type III specifications and thus valves and other oil and gas pressure containing structure to be used on wells containing corrosive fluids, such as hydrogen sulfide, sulfur dioxide or carbon dioxide, or combinations thereof can be made with the improved clad structure of the present invention. In this manner smaller valves and other wellhead structures can be used in compliance with the API specifications which materially reduces the cost and weight of each installation. To illustrate the method of producing the improved clad steel of the present invention, valve body 10, shown in FIGURE 3, includes flow passages 12 and valve chamber 14 which are to be provided with a corrosion resistant lining.To prepare for the addition of metal powder, can 16, having thin tube 18, flat bottom 20 and thin sleeve 22 extending through the intermediate portion of tube 18 is inserted into valve chamber 14. Bottom 20 is sealed to the end of tube 18 as by welding and sleeve 22 is also sealed to tube 18 as by welding. Thin tube 24 is inserted through passages 12 and sleeve 22 as shown. Ring 26 is welded to the exterior of can 16 and to the exterior of body 10 and rings 28 and 30 are welded around the ends of tube 24 and to the exterior of body 10. Fill tube 32 extends through ring 26 and fill tube 34 extends through ring 30. The structure of can 16, tube 24 and their sealing rings 26, 28 and 30 provides a space 36 within the walls of passages 12 and chamber 14.This structure functions as a pressure transmitting yieldable mold or thin metal sealed structure as hereinafter explained.It is important that all of the welds in the structure of can 16, sleeve 22 and tube 24 be air tight and remain so during the consolidation step to exclude air from the heated metal powder. Body structure 10 in the valve structure shown inFIGURE 3 would be the base steel alloy, preferably the specific alloy mentioned above and definitely having less than 15 points of carbon on all of its surfaces that are to receive the cladding or lining. As stated the steel alloy would have from 10 to 15 points or carbon but steel alloys having greater amounts of carbon may be used if all of the surfaces to receive the cladding or lining are subjected to a reduction or decarburization treatment which reduces the amount of carbon in these surfaces to the range specified above. In this manner the carbide precipitation is minimized and the strength of the interface is greatly improved When space 36 is ready to be filled, a vacuum is drawn thereon by connection of suitable means, such as a vacuum pump not shown to either or both of fill tubes 32 and 34.Sufficient vacuum should be drawn so that the amount of gases present in space 36 will not interfere with the formation of the desired consolidated metal lining. Space 36 within body cavities 12 and 14 is then filled through fill tubes 32 and 34 with the powdered metal of the corrosion resistant cladding material as set forth above. It is recommended that body 10 be vibrated during filling of space 36 so that it is completely filled with the metal powder before proceeding to the next step. It is preferred that the material of can 16, tube 24 and rings 26, 28 and 30 be of the same material as the cladding material. Also, it is suggested that space 36 be sufficiently large to provide a lining of consolidated metal which is sufficiently thick to allow for machining to the final internal shape without any depressions or holidays in the finished lining. After filling with powder the fill tubes 32 and 34 are closed and sealed. If desired, suitable valves not shown may be secured thereon so that they may be closed when the vacuum drawing step is finished. Such valves are recommended to be leak proof when subjected to forming conditions. Thereafter, body 10 is placed in an autoclave not shown or other suitable device wherein it is subjected to forming temperature 2,0000F approximately and pressure 15,000 psi approximately . Body 10 is maintained at such temperature and pressure for a period of two hours and then is allowed to cool. It is believed important that the time during which body 10 is maintained at forming conditions in the autoclave should be limited and that the cooling and heating steps should not be extended unnecessarily. It is preferred that the length of the hip cycle and temperature be controlled to temperatures less than 22000F and a time of less than four hours at temperature. Such controls on the hip cycle plays a role in limiting the formation of the chromium carbide. During exposure to forming conditions in the autoclave, can 16 and tube 24, being yieldable, are expanded to compress the powdered metal against the walls of passages 12 and chamber 14. The heat and pressure cause the powdered metal to be consolidated into a solid lining within the body which is completely bonded to the body and has an interface of suitable physical properties as to allow the cladding or lining material to be considered in making the design calculations of the material needed to meet the specifications which are controlling for the particular structure. Thus, the improved method of the present invention provides the combining of martensitic and austenitic alloys giving strength and corrosion resistance.