# Halogenated cyclic imides useful as anti oxidants and flame retardants.

## Abstract
A compound of formula I A is The compound is especially useful in polymers used for electrical insulation, in heat shrinkable tubing and other parts.

## Claims
Claims 1. A compound of formula IEMI11.1 where A is orEMI11.2 where Y is Cl or Br X is 0, 1 or 2 R1 is tert butyl and R2 is H or lower alkyl of 1 to 4 carbons. 2. The compound of claim 1 in which R2 is tert butyl. 3. The compound of claim 1 or 2 in which X is 2. 4. The compound of claim 1, 2 or 3 in which OH is at the 4 position, R1 is at the 3 position and R2 is at the 5 position of the phenyl ring. EMI12.1 7. A composition comprising a polymer and the compound of claims 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6. 8. The composition of claim 7 in which the amount of the compound is 0.05 to 150 based on weight of the polymer. 9. The composition of claim 7 or 8 in which the polyolefin is polyethylene of polypropylene. 10. The composition of claims 7, 8 or 9 in which the composition is in the form of a heat shrinkable product. 11. The composition of claim 10 in which polyethylene is crosslinked after grafting with vinyl trimethoxysilane or similar vinylalkoxysilanes. 12. The product of the reaction of 3,5 di tert butyl 4hydroxy hydrocinnamic hydrazide and a 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 7 hexachloro norbornene 2 3 dicarboxylic anhydride or b tetra bromophthalic anhydride.

## Description
CHg9ÍCAL COMPOUNDS AND USEThis invention is directed to compounds of Formula IEMI1.1 where A is preferablyEMI1.2 and in which case Y is most preferably chlorine or Y may be bromine or A isEMI1.3 and in which case Y is most preferably bromine or Y may be chlorine where X is 0, 1 or 2, R1 is tert butyl t butyl and R2 is H or lower alkyl or 1 to 4 carbons, e.g. methyl, ethyl, propyl or butyl e.g. t butyl . X is most preferably 2. The preferred group of compounds is where OH is at the 4 position, R1 is at the 3 position and R2 is at the 5 position of the phenyl ring. The most preferred compound is where X is 2, R1 and R2 are both t butyl at the 3 and 5 positions of the phenyl ring and OH is at the 4 position of the phenyl ring and each Y is C1. The compounds of formuly I are useful as antioxidants and flame retardants in polymers and in articles of manufacture made of polymers. The compounds of formula I are substantially nonblooming in comparison to most other antioxidants. The present invention is useful in polymers used for electrical insulation, in heat shrinkable tubing and other parts, e.g., and caps made of polyolefins such as polyethylene and use for electrical purposes, as well as in other plastic polymer parts used as utensils or as parts of washing machines to prevent them from becoming brittle due to loss of antioxidant because of soapy water causing the antioxidants commonly used to leach out of the plastic . The compounds of formuly I are particularly useful in heat recoverable heat shrinkable articles of manufacture such as tubing, end caps, boots and other hollow articles to which heat is applied to cause shrinkage because the lack of blooming permits coating with adhesives and inks. Polymers in which the compounds of formula I are useful in this invention include all thermoplastics and thermohardening thermosetting plastics in which antioxidants are employed. Suitable plastics may include polyolefins such as polyethylene high and low density , polypropylene, polybutylene, substituted polyolefins such as halogenated, e.g., grafted polyethylene using a silane such as vinyl trimethoxy silane as the grafting agent. See U.S.Patent No. 3,086,242. The compounds of formula I would also be useful with any polymer whose useful properties are adversely affected by oxidative degradation such as esters, amides e.g. nylon , phenolics, acrylics, rubber, urethanes, vinyls, styrenes e.g. ABS , and others used in the plastics industry. See the Text PLASTICS IN THE MODERN WORLD by E.G. Couzens and V.E. Yarsly 0 1968, published by Pelican Books, Inc.,Maryland U.S.A., for other polymers used in industry and useful in this invention. Prior art patents showing heat recoverable plastics and articles include U.S. Patents 4,048,129, 4,016,356, 3,981,546 and 3, 959,052. It should be understood that heat recoverable articles are meant to include those that are treated by irradiation or chemically treated to produce such articles. Compounds of this invention may be combined with other antioxidants useful in a polymer which may include both synergistic antioxidants and primary antioxidants SYNERGISTIC ANTIOXIDANTSCommercial Name Chemical NameArgus DLTOP Dilauryl thiodipropionateArgus DSTOP Distearyl thiodipropionateCyanox 711 Ditridecyl thiodipropionateWeston TNPP Tris nonylphenyl phosphiteWeston 618 Distearyl pentaerythritol diphosphite and PRIMARY ANTIOXIDANTSCommercial Name Chemical NameIrganox 1010 tetrakisCmethylene 3 3 ,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionatej methane Santonox R 4,4 thiobis 3 methyl 6 tert butyl phenol Irganox 1024 N,N bis 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxy hydrocinnamoyl hydrazineCyanox 1729 Bis 4 tert butyl 3 hydroxy 2,6 dimethyl benzyl dithiolterephthalate Ethyl 330 1,3,5,Trimethyl 2,4,6 trisC3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxy benzyl benzene Agerite White di B naphthyl p phenylene diamineIrganox 1035 thiodiethylene bis 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxy hydrocinnamate Other suitable commerical antioxidants include GoodRite 3114, Plastanox 2246, Naugard 449, Naugard XL 1,Irganox 1093, Irganox 1076, Topanol CA, and Irganox 565.Other antioxidants in the art may be found in the textANTIOXIDANTS, RECENT DEVELOPMENTS, CHEMICAL TECHNOLOGYREVIEW NO. 127, by M. William Ronney, Noyes Data Corporation0 1979, Library of Congress, Catalog No. 79 84425. In using the compound of formula I in a polymer the concentration used should preferably be between .05 to 10 of the weight of the polymer when used as an antioxidant and at concentrations as high as 150 of the weight of the polymer for fire resistant compositions. Comounds of this invention may also be combined with other flame retardants useful in a polymer which may include both reactive and additive typed, e.g. Additive types include aluminum trihydrate, chlorinated paraffins, brominated diphenyl oxides, chlorinated cycloaliphatics, antimony oxides, bis imide of tetrabromophthalic anhydride, hexabromocyclododecane, brominated polyphenylene oxide, zinc borates, triphenyl phosphine, and tris B chloroethyl phosphate. Reactive types include chlorendic anhydride and chlorendic acid, tetrabromobisphenol A, dibromoneopentylglycol, tetrabromo and testrachloro phthalic anhydride, diethyl n, n Bis 2 hydroxy ethyl amino methyl phosphonate, vinyl btomide, and chlorinate polyol Olin RF 230 seeModern Plastics Encyclopedia, p. 173, 1982 83 Edition,Vol. 59, No. lOA. In FIGs. 1 to 7 there are shown various forms of the invention. FIGS. 1 to 5 illustrate hollow articles as doesFIG. 7. FIGS. 1, 2 and 3 illustrate a tube 20 formed of material such as vinyl trimethoxysilane grafted polyethylene and containing a compound of formula I . The tube is formed by conventional technology to be heat shrinkable e.g., see U.S. Patents 3,086,242 and 3,303,243. See U.K. Patent Application No. 1601063 publishedOctober 21, 1981 for an illustratirn of chemically produced heat shrinkable material. Conventional cross linked silane grafted polyethylene is shown in U.S. Patent 3,086,242. The material of U.S. Patent 3,086,242 will be modified by the incorporation of the compound of formula I as disclosed herein. The tube 20 is shrunk as shown in FIG. 3 over electrical cable 21 to provide an insulative protective cover which will protect against moisture and other deleterious substances. FIGS. 4 and 5 illustrate a heat recoverable end cap 25 a closed at one end hollow article with FIG. 5 showing the end cap 25 shrunk over a pair of wires 26 and 27. The end cap 25 is made by using the polymer material of the invention in a manner well known in the art. FIGS. 6 and 7 show a sheet 30 of material of the invention rolled over upon itself as in FIG. 7 to form a tube.The sheet may be heat recoverable or not depending upon the desires of the end user. A heat recoverable sheet may be made by methods known in the art. FIG. 1 is a side view of a tube FIG. 2 is an end view of a tube FIG. 3 is a sectional view of the tube of FIGS. 1 and 2 shrunk over wire or cable FIG. 4 is a sectional view of an end cap FIG. 5 is a sectional view of the end cap of FIG. 4 shrunk over a pair of wires FIG. 6 is a top view of a sheet of polymer material of the invention and FIG. 7 is a perspective view of the sheet of FIG. 6 rolled up upon itself to form a tube. The following examples are illustrative of the practice of the invention and are not intended for purposes of limitation. All parts are by weight and all temperatures are in centigrade. EXAMPLE I Preparation of the preferred compound of formula I where each Y is Cl and each R is t butyl at the 3 and 5position and OH is at the 4 position and X 2 and A isEMI6.1 The preferred compound of formula I is prepared in two steps as follows To 1500 ml. of methyl alcohol is added 642 grams of thiodiethylene bis 3, 5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxy hydrocinnamate. The mixture is stirred and heated to about 550C to effect solution. At this point 80 grams of 95 hydrazine 20 excess is added and heating is continued for three hours.The mixture is cooled and the crystals which separate are filtered and dried. A total of 210 grams of 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxy hydrocinnamic acid hydrazide is obtained 72 yield . This material has a melting point of 1580C Perkin Elmer DSC 2 calorimeter at a heating rate of 100C per minute . The yield may be increased by re using the mother liquor in place of fresh methanol, by concentrating the mother liquor, or by diluting the mother liquor with a poor solvent for the hydrazide such as water . The dried hydrocinnamic acid hydrazide is used without further purification. A mixture of 29.2 grams of the hydrazide and 37 grams of powdered 1,4,5,6,7,7 hexachloro norbornene 2 3 dicarboxylic anhydride chlorendic anhydride is added to 1000 ml. of water and stirred at room temperature for about two hours. The temperature is then gradually increased to 1000C over a 2 hour period, with stirring. The product obtained is filtered while hot, washed with hot water and dried. The yield was 57 grams 89 of preferred compound melting at 3120C Perkin Elmer DSC 2 calorimeter at a heating rate of 100C per minute and with an oxygen atmosphere, which demonstrates the resistance of the compound to oxidation by atmospheric oxidation . It is substantially white and is insoluble in boiling water. EXAMPLE II Musing the compound of formula I prepared in Example 1, a number of compositions are prepared by mixing the proportions of ingredients percent by weight shown into a polymer comprising 9 vinyl acetate 91 ethylene copolymer commercially known as U.S. Industrial ChemicalUE 635 or low density polyethylene, on a heated, two roll mill, molding into a sheet approximately 75 mils thick as shown below i 3 parts by weight of the compound of formula I and 100 parts by weight of the polymer UE 635 and ii 10 parts by weight of the compound of formula I and 90 parts by weight of the polymer polyethylene NA 254 and iii .047 part by weight of the compound of formula I and 100 parts by weight of a polyethylene polymer commercially known as U.S. Industrial Chemicals NA 254 . EXAMPLE III Preparation of the compound of formula I where each Y is Br and each R is t butyl at the 3 and 5 position and OH is at the 4 position and X 2 and A isEMI8.1 This compound of formula I is prepared in two steps as follows To 1500 ml. of methyl alcohol is added 642 grams of thiodiethylene bis 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxy hydrocinnamate. The mixture is stirred and heated to about 550C to effect solution. At this point 80 grams of 95 hydrazine 20 excess is added and heating is continued for three hours. The mixture is cooled and the crystals which separate are filtered and dried. A total of 210 grams of 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxy hydrocinnamic acid hydrazide is obtained 72 yield .This material has a melting point of 1580C Perkin Elmer DSC 2 calorimeter at a heating rate of 100C per minute . The yield may be increased by re using the mother liquor in place of fresh methanol, by concentrating the mother liquor, or by diluting the mother liquor with a poor solvent for the hydrazide such as water . The dried hydrocinnamic acid hydrazide is used without further purification. A mixture of 29.2 grams of the hydrazide and 46 grams of powdered tetrabromophtalic anhydride is added to 1000 ml. of water and stirred at room temperature for about two hours. The temperature is then gradually increased to 1000C over a 2 hour period, with stirring. The product obtained is filtered while hot, washed with hot water and dried. The yield was 64 grams 85 of the compound having a small endotherm at 2860C and a main melting point at 3030C Perkin Elmer DSC 2 calorimeter at a heating rate of 100C per minute and with an oxygen atmoshpere, which demonstrates the resistance of the compound to oxidation by atmospheric oxidation . It is substantially white and is insoluble in boiling water. EXAMPLE IV Using the compound of formula I prepared in ExampleIII a number of compositions are prepared by mixing the proportion of ingredients percent by weight shown into a polymer comprising 9 vinyl acetate 91 ethylene copolymer commercially known as U.S. Industrial ChemicalsUE 635 or low density polyethylene, on a heated, two roll mill, molding into a sheet approximately 75 mils thick as shown below i 3 parts by weight of the compound of formula I and 100 parts by weight of the polymer UE 635 and ii 10 parts by weight of the compound of formula I and 90 parts by weight of the polymer polyethylene NA 254 and iii .047 part by weight of the compound of formula I and 100 parts by weight of a polyethylene polymer commercially known as U.S. Industrial Chemicals NA 254 ,