# Blind fastener

## Claims
Blindniet 10 110 210 310 410 zum Anordnen in miteinander fluchtenden Durchgangsöffnungen 20, 22 von Werkstücken 12, 16 , um diese in inwärtig und auswärtig überlappender Anordnung miteinander zu verbinden, wobei die Blindniet 10 110 210 310 410 mittels Verdrehmitteln zum Aufbringen eines Drehmomentes anziehbar ist und umfaßt

## Description
The invention starts from a blind fastener for mounting in aligned openings through workpieces to connect them together in overlapping outer and inner relation and adapted to be set by wrench means for applying torque, the fastener comprising The invention, further, starts from a method of fastening overlapped outer and inner workpieces using a fastener of the type having a generally tubular fastener body having an enlarged body head, a deformable sleeve at an end of said fastener body opposite from said body head, and an externally threaded cylindrical stem extending through aligned bores in said sleeve and said fastener body, said stem being provided with a break groove between inner and outer regions of said stem, the method comprising the steps of A blind fastener and a method of the above mentioned kind are described in US A 4,089,247. This prior art blind fastener has a tubular fastener body with internal threads which mate external threads of the stem. The fastener body has a conical body head which is inserted into a respective conical recess on the outer surface of the outer workpiece such that the fastener body head surface is flush with the outer surface of the outer workpiece. The body head surface is provided with a recess for accepting a portion of a power tool bit to keep the tubular body from rotating during the setting of the fastener. The stem has an inner portion provided with the afore mentioned threads whereas an outer portion is designed to protrude from the body head surface. The outer portion is provided with flattened lateral surfaces to allow a form locking wrench to apply torque on the stem. For setting this kind of fastener, a special wrench tool has to be used which has a nose piece with an outer circumferential front portion with protrusions mating the recess in the fastener body head surface whereas an inner wrench portion engages the flattened lateral surfaces of the outer stern portion. The rotating inner wrench portion of the tool is then rotated so that torque is exerted on the stem while the tubular fastener body is held stationary by means of the circumferential wrench tool front portion being in stationary form locking relationship with the recess of the fastener body head. When continuous torque is applied on the stem in the aforementioned manner, the stem will move outwardly in an axial direction whereby the deformable sleeve is deformed at the inner surface of the inner workpiece to form a bulge and, thus, secure the inner workpiece relative to the outer workpiece. When the fastener is fully set, a breakneck groove in the stem has come into an axial position where it is flush with the outer surface of the outer workpiece. If continuing torque is now applied on the outer portion of the stem, now entirely protruding from the outer workpiece, then the stem will be sheared off at the weakened location of the breakneck groove. When the setting of the blind fastener is thus completed, the cylindrical outer portion of the stem that had been sheared off will then be expelled or otherwise removed from the wrench tool to allow a subsequent blind fastener setting operation to be performed with the same tool. If a larger number of blind fasteners is set in this manner, as is the case in the aircraft industry where blind fasteners are used to assemble aircraft bodies, a large number of sheared off stem portions the so called pin tails will be distributed all over the place in the assembly plant. As mentioned before, blind fasteners of the above mentioned kind have a principal field of application in the aerospace industry. It goes without saying that such blind fasteners have to be manufactured from a non corrosive material e.g. of stainless steel. When a blind fastener is set, one portion of the stem will remain in the set fastener, i.e. in the assembled aircraft whereas the sheared off portion will be thrown away in the assembly plant. As the portion of the blind fastener which remains in the assembled aircraft is made of e.g. stainless steel, the thrown away pin tail does also consist of stainless steel. It is, therefore, extremely difficult to recover the thrown away pin tails lying around all over the place not only because of their extremely small dimensions but also because of the fact that one cannot use other than mechanical sweep methods for recovering them. Another drawback of these prior art blind fasteners lies in the fact that a specialized wrench tool has to be used which is equipped with a front portion having protrusions which exactly mate the recess in the fastener body head, as mentioned above. A first disadvantage that is created by this situation is that a large number of wrench tools has to be used to mate blind fasteners of different dimensions because when the dimensions of the fastener body head vary, another wrench tool will have to be used to ensure proper form locking. A second disadvantage lies in the fact that in order to ensure a proper form locking between the wrench tool and the fastener body head, the recess will have to be designed with sufficiently deep dimensions such that the protrusions on the front circumferential portion of the wrench tool may be properly inserted into the recess. However, when the recess has to be designed sufficiently deep, this requires that the fastener body head, too, is made sufficiently deep, thus resulting in limitations with respect to the thickness of the workpieces to be fastened together. A third disadvantage with the prior art fasteners is that during the installation procedure, the wrench tool tends to cam out of the fastener body head, particularly when the wrench tool is not properly aligned with the axis of the blind fastener or when the protrusions on the front circumferential portion of the wrench tool are worn out, thereby seriously weakening the strength of the fastener and sometimes preventing the completion of the installation. As a consequence, the setting operation of the prior art blind fasteners, in order to ensure reliable fastening, as is mandatory in the aircraft industry, requires precision work and, hence, ample setting time. Another blind fastener of the kind mentioned before is known from US A 2,765,699. This fastener is provided with a plurality of Phillips type wrenching recesses in the fastener body head to receive the jaws of a suitable screw driver. Still another kind of prior art blind fastener and method for setting same is described in a data sheet VOI SHAN, Standard PLT 1040, of April 10, 1974. The PLT 1040 blind fastener is designed for connecting together in overlapped relation an outer honeycomb structure with an inner rigid plate. The fastener has a stem with a threaded portion protruding from the fastener body. A drive nut is screwed on the front portion of the stem. The fastener is inserted into aligned openings of the honeycomb structure in the rigid plate until the rear ends of the fastener body and of the stem with its enlarged head and deformable sleeve therebetween extend beyond the inner surface of the rigid plate. An appropriate wrench tool is used to grip both the drive nut and lateral flattened sections of the stem front portion. When the blind fastener is inserted into the aligned openings of the workpieces, the drive nut and the stem are rotated relative to each other so that the deformable sleeve is deformed as described above with respect to the blind fastener of US A 4,089,247. However, in contrast thereto, the PLT 1040 installation instructions teach the user to continue the afore mentioned relative rotation operation of the stem against the drive nut until either the front end of the stem protrudes from the outer surface of the honeycomb material by a predetermined amount x or until the nut head is flush with the outer surface of the honeycomb structure. The latter condition is a criterion for the fastener to be fully set, because the fastener body also in this case is provided with an outer enlarged head tapering inwardly such that the body head will be impressed into the relatively weak honeycomb structure material upon setting of the fastener. The condition of setting the fastener until the stem protrudes from the outer surface by a predetermined amount x is, therefore, equivalent to the second condition for the outer flat surface of the enlarged fastener body head to be flush with the outer surface of the honeycomb structure. The setting procedure of this kind of fastener is, therefore, a smooth and steady procedure performed under visual control of either the stem protrusion or the dimpled state of the body head to ensure that the honeycomb structure is crushed only to the necessary extent. One of the two setting conditions having been detected, the PLT 1040 installation instructions call for removal of the drive nut by rotating it in a clockwise direction. In practice, this has to be accomplished by either unscrewing the nut by hand, which is extremely time consuming, or by using a different wrench tool, because the wrench tool originally used for setting the fastener is normally provided with a stationary outer wrench flat for holding the drive nut unrotated and prevent it from rotating while an inner wrench region is connected to a spindle of a drive motor to rotate the stem against the rotationally fixed drive nut. Thus, the wrench tool used for setting the fastener cannot be used at a later stage for unscrewing the nut from the stem, or an extremely complicated wrench tool with various modes of operation for alternately rotating either the outer or the inner wrench flats is to be designed and used. When the drive nut has thus been removed from the protruding portion of the stem, PLT 1040 installations instructions teach the user to mill that protruding stem portion flush. It goes without saying that this milling procedure is extremely time consuming, too, and, further, milling of relatively large quantities of metal will result in a substantial pollution with metal particles of the working area. Both these disadvantages, namely extreme time consumption when setting the fasteners and milling off the protruding stem portions as well as the generation of a large quantity of metallic particles spread around is unacceptable for modern high precision assembly lines as are used e.g. in the production airplanes, missiles, etc. US A 2,915,934 teaches a blind fastener for similar applications which is, too, provided with a tubular fastener body, an externally threaded stem with enlarged head and a deformable sleeve as described above. This prior art fastener, too, is provided with a drive nut at the outside of the outer workpiece and relative rotation of the drive nut and of the stem results in the fastener to become fully set. However, in contrast to the PLT 1040 blind fastener but similarly to the US A 4,089,247 or US A 2,765,699 blind fastener, discussed above, US A 2,915,934 teaches to provide the stem with a localized weakened region which, when the fastener is fully set, is flush with the outer surface of the drive nut. Thus, when continuous torque is applied to the fastener after being fully set, the portion of the stem which extends beyond the outer surface of the drive nut is sheared off. However, this means that the drive nut remains with the fastener when it is fully set. In the production of airplanes and missiles, this is entirely unacceptable for reasons of aerodynamics, because drive nuts, extending over the outer surface of the airplane or missile body, constitute an air resistance. Although in another embodiment of the US A 2,915,934 blind fastener it is suggested to use a drive nut of conical shape which is arranged in a corresponding conical depression in the outer surface, thus resulting in a flush outer surface of the outer workpiece, it is apparent that handling of this embodiment of the fastener is still much more difficult, because the plane outer surface of the drive nut does not offer appropriate gripping elements for safely securing the drive nut against rotation. It has to be borne in mind that a substantial gripping force has to be exerted on the drive nut, the torque being equal to the torque necessary for shearing off the protruding portion of the stem. Therefore, although not described in US A 2,915,934, recesses will have to be provided in the outer surface of the drive nut to allow firm gripping thereof, as discussed above with respect to US A 4,089,247 or US A 2,765,699 going back to the same inventor as US A 2,915,934. Still another type of blind fasteners is described in US A 2,282,711 and SU A 259,565. In this species of blind fasteners, the design is similar to the one discussed above with respect to US A 2,915,934 for what concerns the specific design of the stem, the deformable sleeve, and the tubular fastener body. However, the design of the drive nut is substantially different, because a two part drive nut is used, an inner portion of which is conically shaped and enters into a respective outer conical expansion of the opening in the outer workpiece, whereas an outer portion of the drive nut remains axially remote from the outer surface of the outer workpiece, the outer portion being provided with wrench flats. The inner and the outer portions of the drive nut are connected by a neck of relative small wall thickness. As discussed above with respect to US A 2,765,699 and US A 2,915,934, the stem is provided with an annular groove weakening its diameter at an axial position being flush with the outer surface of the outer workpiece when the blind fastener is fully set. Again, for setting this kind of blind fastener, a wrench tool is used which simultaneously engages with corresponding flats at the outside of the outer portion of the drive nut and of the protruding stem portion, respectively. However, in contrast to the blind fastener of US A 2,915,934 and in contrast to the PLT 1040 blind fastener, for the blind fasteners of US A 2,282,711 and SU A 259,565, it is mandatory to rotate the outer portion of the drive nut and to prevent the stem from being rotated. Only in this case, the frangible neck between the outer and the inner portions of the drive nut will break first and, upon continuing turning and applying torque to the outer portion of the drive nut, the breaking groove of the stem will break so that the outer portion of the drive nut together with the broken off outer portion of the stem can be removed simultaneously. If the opposite were done, i.e. the outer portion of the drive nut were prevented from rotating and the external portion of the stem were rotated, the breaking groove of the stem would break first, with said portion being unscrewed from the drive nut and the drive nut with its outer portion would remain in place. However, the fasteners according to US A 2,282,711 and SU A 259,565 have the following two disadvantages Therefore, US A 2,282,711 teaches to additionally use finishing tools for smoothing up the face of the work in order to finish the job properly. Therefore, this concept of blind fasteners, too, involves a significant amount of working time for finishing the surfaces after setting the fastener. It goes without saying that this problem turns out to be even more severe if due to improper preparation of pre setting of the fasteners the breaking groove should not be flush with the outer surface of the outer workpiece when the fastener is set, because, then, the breaking off due to tensile pull will either occur outside or inside the outer surface of the outer workpiece, thus either leaving a small portion of the stem protruding from the outer surface of the outer workpiece or a respective depression therein, both presenting problems in the production of aircrafts and missiles. The second main disadvantage of this concept of fasteners is that because of one portion of the drive nut remaining with the blind fastener, the design engineer is not free in his selection of materials, as explained above with respect to the US A 2,765,699 blind fastener. Therefore, as the portion of the drive nut remaining with the set blind fastener in the assembled aircraft is made of a non corrosive and, hence, non magnetic material, the pin tails, generated when setting this kind of blind fasteners are also entirely non magnetic and do, hence, not allow to use magnetic sweep methods for recovering purposes. Finally, US A 3,276,308 teaches a blind fastener similar to the one of US A 4,089,247 discussed above. More particularly, US A 3,276,308 shows a nut which is wound on the outer portion of the stem protruding from the fastener body. However, the nut is not a part of the fastener but a part of the setting tool and, hence, the nut has no external wrench engaging surfaces. It is, therefore, an object of the present invention to improve a blind fastener as well as a method of fastening overlapped outer and inner workpieces, as mentioned at the outset, such that only a minimum of setting time and a minimum number of wrench tool for various dimensions of fasteners are required, that, further, highly reliable connections are established by setting the fasteners and that effective and economic methods for recovering the sheared off pin tails may be used, preferably by means of a non mechanical sweep. According to the invention, this object is achieved by the fastener mentioned at the outset by The aforementioned object is, further, achieved by the method, mentioned at the outset, by the steps of The fastener and the method according to the present invention, thus, offer a number of substantial advantages. As compared with prior art blind fasteners having Phillips type recesses in the fastener body head, as described in US A 4,089,247 or US A 2,765,699, the invention offers the substantial advantage to have a drive nut with relatively big wrench flats allowing safe gripping of the fastener without any risk of damaging those parts of the fastener that remain with the fastener in its fully set condition or even damaging the surrounding surface of the workpiece. Further, a substantial reduction in setting time may be achieved with the invention, because applying the wrench tool to the blind fastener is a far less critical operation as a hexagonal drive nut is far easier and safer to grip with a wrench tool than is the case with Phillips type recesses. Further, avoiding recesses in the fastener body head allows to make the head fatter and, hence, allows to assemble thinner workpieces as is the case in the aforementioned prior art fasteners. Finally, by shearing off the outer stem portion with the drive nut still attached results in having relatively big pin tails which are far easier to be retrieved using mechanical methods as is the case in prior art blind fasteners with very small cylindrical stem portions lying around all over the place. Further, having an entirely separate element, namely the drive nut, separating from the set blind fastener allows to make the drive nut from a ferromagnetic material, because nothing of the drive nut remains with the set fastener. In this case, magnetic sweep techniques may be used to recover the pin tails. When comparing the blind fastener and the method according to the invention with the PLT 1040 fastener, it becomes clear that a drastic reduction of working time is achieved, because unlike the PLT 1040 fastener it is neither necessary to separately unscrew the drive nut, because according to the invention the drive nut, together with the outer portion of the stem, is entirely sheared off as one piece, nor is any milling operation necessary so that there is no need whatsoever for removing metal particles or chips. Finally, as compared with the concept of the fasteners as described in US A 2,282,711 and SU A 259,565, the invention offers the advantage that a well defined breaking surface is generated by exclusively effecting a shearing mechanism on one component of the pin tail only, the latter being sufficient to remove the pin tail consisting of the stem of the drive nut as a whole. Further, again, designing the drive nut as an element entirely separate from those elements remaining with the set fastener, it is possible to make the drive nut from a ferromagnetic material which can easily be retrieved by means of a magnetic sweep. The fastener further comprises a deformable annular means for securing workpieces together having a head which is larger in diameter than the diameter of the aligned boreholes, an intermediate part adjacent to the head which has an outside diameter generally slightly smaller but may also be slightly larger than the diameter of the boreholes, such that the combined longitudinal lengths of the head and the intermediate part is, when the fastener is set, at least equal to the combined thicknesses of the workpieces, and a deformable tail part adjacent the intermediate part and abutting the stem head and having an outside diameter smaller than the diameter of the boreholes for securing the workpieces when the fastener is set. The head is essentially free of a cavity recess or cavities which are operative for gripping with a tool which will prevent rotation of the annular means. A reduced recess may be provided in the head for inspection of seating torque. The improved fastener also comprises turning means in the outer portion of the stem member for rotating the stem member relative to the drive nut. The turning means and the drive nut being operable for effecting the setting of the fastener by rotating the turning means relative to the drive nut without the necessity for absolutely preventing any rotation of the annular means relative to the drive nut. The fastener also contains a break groove in the stem member which has sufficient radial depth so that when the fastener is set, further turning of the stem member relative to the drive nut will cause the stem member to break at the break groove. The break groove is located at a point on the stem member which is, when the fastener is set, substantially flush with the top outer surface of the head of the annular means. Many of the prior art blind fasteners have a Phillips type recess in the annular head for gripping with a special tool as the outside portion of the stem member or pin is rotated with the special tool. Frequently in the aerospace and aircraft industries, the annular heads of blind fasteners are generally very shallow in longitudinal depth. Because of this, Phillips type or other type recesses tend to weaken the annular head. Furthermore, during the installation procedure the driving tool tends to cam out the annular head thereby seriously weakening the strength of the fastener and preventing the completion of installation. In my invention however, the fastener can be set without the necessity for restraining the annular means from rotating by using a special tool and hence there is no need to have a Phillips type recess or any type recess whatsoever in the annular head. In my invention the drive nut translates rotary motion of the drive nut into linear motion of the stem head, thereby providing a number of advantages over many of the prior art blind fasteners. For example, installation may be accomplished with much lighter weight and low cost tooling. The shock loads common with pull type fasteners experienced when the stem breaks are all eliminated in my fasteners. Because of the rotation of the stem member relative to the drive nut, the removable portion of the pin is broken off relatively smoothly and cleanly thereby eliminating stem recoil as experienced with pull type fasteners and producing a joint having a higher preload retention. Accordingly, a further embodiment of my fastener provides a turning means for rotating the stem member relative to the drive nut using standard hand tools and without the necessity to use any bulky and specially designed tools for effecting the setting of the blind fastener. In a further embodiment the head of my fastener has a substantially flat top and a conical surface so that the head can be flush mounted with the accessible surface of an outer workpiece having a counter sunk borehole. In another embodiment the annular means cannot be removed from the workpiece except by unscrewing or breaking the annular means. In still another further embodiment of my fastener, after the fastener is set, the annular means cannot be removed from the workpieces without breaking the annular means. In still another embodiment the annular means is a single piece construction wherein the tail part is gradient hardened and forms a bulbed configuration when the fastener is set. In another embodiment the tail part of the annular means is two piece constructed having a first piece which is an annular nondeformable piece and a second piece which is an annular deformable piece. The nondeformable piece is an extension of the intermediate part of the annular means and is one piece constructed therewith and has a conical chamfer on the end opposite the annular head which is operable as a wedge for deforming the deformable piece. In a further embodiment, except for the chamfer, the inside and outside diameters of the nondeformable piece are substantially equal to the inside and outside diameters of the intermediate part of the annular means. The deformable piece is separated from the nondeformable piece and spaced longitudinally between the nondeformable piece and the stem head and abuts the stem head and is adaptable, when the fastener is set, to deform the end of the deformable piece adjacent the nondeformable piece outwardly along the outside surface of the nonaccessible workpiece. In another further embodiment the annular head has an annular cavity adjacent the outer surface and inside diameter thereof, the intermediate part of the annular means has a shoulder section adjacent the cavity, and a thinner section adjacent the shoulder section such that the inside diameter of the thinner section is larger than the inside diameter of the shoulder section. In this embodiment the stem member has a removable portion which comprises a turning means and the externally threaded portion, a plug portion adjacent the removable portion, and a tail portion adjacent the plug portion and comprising the stem head. The plug portion has an outer section adjacent the break groove. The outer section also has an annular locking groove. The plug portion also has an intermediate section adjacent the outer section and having an outside diameter slightly smaller than the inside diameter of the shoulder section. Still further the plug portion has an inner section adjacent the intermediate section, and having an outside diameter slightly smaller than the inside diameter of the thinner section, such that, when the fastener is set, the intermediate section abuts the shoulder section and the inner section abuts the thinner section. This embodiment of the fastener further comprises an annular locking ring having a thick segment which fits into the locking groove and abuts the shoulder section, and a thin segment adjacent the thick segment which abuts the outer section and the shoulder section, such that, when the fastener is set, the locking ring is compressed into the locking groove and the space between the shoulder section, the cavity, the outer section and the drive nut. In a still further embodiment the locking groove is immediately adjacent the intermediate section. In a further embodiment the inner section extends into the tail portion and is adjacent to the stem head and the thinner section extends over the entire longitudinal length of the tail part and the inside diameter of the tail part abuts the outside diameter of the inner section and further wherein the tail part is gradient hardened so that when said fastener is set a bulbed configuration is formed against the unaccessible surface of the inner and nonaccessible workpiece. In an alternative embodiment, the stem head has an annular tapered section which is operable when said fastener is set, to flare the tail part of the annular means radially against the outside surface of the nonaccessible workpiece. In another embodiment of this invention the annular head has an annular cavity adjacent to the outer surface and inside diameter thereof, the inside and outside diameters of the intermediate part of the annular means are equal to the inside and outside diameters respectively of the tail part, wherein the stem member has a removable portion, a plug portion adjacent to the removable portion, and a tail portion adjacent to the plug portion, wherein the removable portion comprises the turning means and a part of the externally threaded section of the stem member, wherein the plug portion comprises the remaining part of the externally threaded section of the stem member, and a part of an inner section having an outside diameter slightly smaller than the inside diameter of the tail part, the externally threaded portion being adjacent to one end of the inner section, the remaining part of the inner section being adjacent to the stem head. In this embodiment the fastener also comprises a threaded locking means having an inside diameter about equal to the outside diameter of the externally threaded section of the stem member, the outside diameter which abuts the inside diameter of the annular means, and a flange which fits into a recess of the annular head, such that, when the fastener is set, the locking means is compressed into the space between the externally threaded portion of the stem member, the inside diameter of the annular means, the cavity of the annular head and the drive nut. In another embodiment of this invention, the annular head has an annular recess adjacent the outside surface and inside diameter thereof comprising a chamfer at an acute angle to the axis of the fastener which begins at the inside diameter of the annular means, and an annular notch adjacent the chamfer and the top outer surface of the annular head. The chamfer and annular notch forming a longitudinal recess surface in the annular means. The fastener in this embodiment also comprises an annular locking ring having an outer longitudinal surface which is substantially identical to the longitudinal recess surface of the annular means and in abutting relationship to the longitudinal recess surface, having an inside diameter about equal to the outside diameter of the externally threaded portion of the stem member, and formed from a material that, when the fastener is set, is deformable into the threads of the externally threaded portion of the stem member. In this embodiment when the fastener is set, the locking ring is compressed into the space between the externally threaded portion of the stem member, the longitudinal recess surface, and the drive nut. In another embodiment of this invention the stem member has an intermediate portion having an outside diameter slightly smaller than the inside diameter of the intermediate part of the annular means and the intermediate portion has an annular locking groove positioned, when the fastener is set, near the accessible surface of the outer workpiece. This embodiment further comprises an annular locking ring having a thick segment which fits into the locking groove and which abuts the inside diameter of the annular means, a thin segment adjacent the thick segment which abuts the inside diameter of the annular means, and which is formed from a material such that, when the fastener is set, the locking ring is compressed to the locking groove and the space between the inside diameter of the annular means, a recess in the annular head, and the drive nut. In another embodiment of this invention the stem member of the fastener has a removable portion comprising the turning means and the externally threaded portion, a plug portion adjacent the removable portion, and a tail portion adjacent the plug portion which comprises the stem head. The plug portion contains an annular locking groove adjacent the externally threaded portion and, a second externally threaded section having an outside diameter larger than the outside diameter of the first mentioned externally threaded portion and adjacent the locking groove. The annular head has an annular recess adjacent the outer surface and inside the diameter thereof. The intermediate part of the annular means has an internally threaded section adjacent the recess and extending into the tail part. The internally threaded section is adapted to permit the annular means to be screwed on to the second externally threaded section of the stem member. This embodiment of the fastener further comprises an annular locking ring having a thick segment which fits into the locking groove and abuts the internally threaded section of the annular means, and a thin segment adjacent the thick segment which also abuts the internally threaded section, and formed from a material such that, when the fastener is set, the locking ring is compressed into the locking groove and the space between the stem member, the recess of the annular head, and the drive nut. In another embodiment which is particularly useful the externally threaded portion of the stem member extends longitudinally to the stem head. The annular head, the intermediate part, and at least a part of the tail part of the annular means is internally threaded and adapted to permit the annular means to be screwed onto the externally threaded portion of the stem member. In another embodiment of this invention the externally threaded portion of the stem member of the fastener extends, when the fastener is set, below the accessible surface of the outer workpiece, and the intermediate part of the annular means has an internally threaded section adaptable to permit the annular means to be screwed onto the externally threaded portion of the stem member such that, when the fastener is set, the threads of the internally threaded section remain screwed onto a part of the externally threaded portion. In another embodiment useful for all of the above described embodiments, the break groove has a configuration which permits the stem member to be broken with a relatively smooth break off surface and without pin recoil thereby enabling the set fastener to have a relatively high preload retention compared to blind fasteners employing a pull type stem. Furthermore in all embodiments of this invention it is not necessary that the drive nut be removed from the stem member before the stem member is severed. Thus the drive nut advantageously remains with the severed portion of the stem member so that it can be recovered by a magnetic sweep of the area. Thus in some embodiments the stem member is made from a nonmagnetic metal. Many prior art fasteners which comprise a cavity or cavities in the head for engaging with the nose of a gripping tool, can not be made of aluminum or other soft metals because the annular head will cam out. The fastener of this invention however can have the annular means made from an aluminum alloy or other soft metal since these fasteners do not contain such cavities. Thus the fasteners of this invention can have relatively thin heads as compared to fasteners which require cavities in the head to prevent rotation. The fasteners of this invention are relatively inexpensive, can be adopted to have a flush stem break, can be installed with lighter, less expensive, standard hand tools, have a higher clamp up and preload retention, and can be installed where the free space on the accessible side is relatively small. Furthermore some embodiments are stronger in fatigue and are believed to be stronger in lap shear than present fasteners. These advantages provide a distinct improvement over prior art blind fasteners. FIG. 1 is a partial cross sectional view of one embodiment of a blind fastener of this invention. FIG. 2 is a cross sectional view of the fastener of FIG. 1 when the fastener is set. FIG. 3 is a cross sectional view of a second embodiment of a blind fastener of this invention. FIG. 4 is a cross sectional view of the fastener of FIG. 3 when the fastener is set. FIG. 5 is a cross sectional view of a third embodiment of a blind fastener of this invention. FIG. 6 is a cross sectional view of the fastener of FIG. 5 when the fastener is set. FIG. 7 is a cross sectional view of a fourth embodiment of a blind fastener of this invention. FIG. 8 is a cross sectional view of the fastener of FIG. 7 when the fastener is set. FIG. 9 is a cross sectional view of a fifth embodiment of a blind fastener of this invention. FIG. 10 is a cross sectional view of the fastener of FIG. 9 when the fastener is set. FIG. 1 is a partial cross sectional view of a particular embodiment of a blind fastener of this invention. Referring to FIG. 1, fastener 10 is used to join outer and accessible workpiece 12 having accessible surface 14 and inner or nonaccessible workpiece 16 having nonaccessible surface 18. Fastener 10 is inserted through aligned boreholes 20 and 22 of the accessible and nonaccesible workpieces. The principal components of fastener 10 consists of stem member 24, annular means 26, drive nut 28, and annular locking ring 30. Stem member 24 has an externally threaded section 32, turning means 34 having wrenching flats 34. Outside diameter 37 of stem head 36 is just slightly smaller than the diameter of the boreholes 20 and 22. Stem member 24 also contains cylindrical inner section 38 having outside diameter 40 which is smaller than the outside diameter 37 of stem head 36. Adjacent to inner section 38, is cylindrical intermediate section 42 having outside diameter 44 which is smaller than outside diameter 40 of inner section 38. Chamfer 45 provides a transition between section 38 and 42. Adjacent to intermediate section 42, is a cylindrical outer section 46 having an outside diameter 48 which is smaller than outside diameter 44. Outer section 46 contains annular locking ring groove 50 and break groove 52. The minimum diameter of break groove 52 is smaller than the inside diameter of threaded section 32 and the inside diameter of locking groove 50. In general, in all embodiments, the stem member contains the following principal parts removable portion 53A which extends from the break groove longitudinally outwards to the turning means plug portion 53B extending longitudinally, when the fastener is set, between the break groove and unaccessible surface 18 and tail portion 53C which includes the stem head and extends therefrom to, when fastener is set, unaccessible surface 18. Portions 53A, B and C of the stem member exist in all embodiments but are pointed out only in several of the FIGURES. Annular means 26 comprises a head 54, which is shown as annular but is not necessarily always so, annular shoulder section 56 and annular thinner section 58. The inside diameter of annular thinner section 58 is just slightly larger than outside diameter 40, and the outside diameter of thinner section 58 is just slightly smaller than the diameter of boreholes 20 and 22. The outside diameter of shoulder section 56 is the same as the outside diameter of thinner section 58. The inside diameter of shoulder section 56 is just slightly larger than the outside diameter of intermediate section 42. Chamfer 59 provides a transition between section 56 and 58, and is designed to match chamfer 45. Annular means 26 also contains an annular recess 60 which is adjacent to the outer surface 62 and the inside diameter of shoulder section 56. Annular locking ring 30 is formed from a single piece of deformable material having an annular thin segment 66 which is adjacent to an annular thick segment 68. Locking ring 30 is disposed in locking groove 50 thereby requiring the locking ring to move with stem member 24. Locking ring 30, before the fastener is set, abuts on its outside diameter shoulder section 56 of annular means 26 and on its inside diameter outer section 46 of stem member 24. In general in all embodiments the annular means contains the following principal parts annular head 70A intermediate part 70B extending longitudinally from the annular head to, when the fastener is set, the nonaccessible surface 18 and tail part 70C extending inwardly from the nonaccessible surface 18, when the fastener is set, to the nonaccessible extremity of the annular means. Parts 70A, B and C of the annular means exist in all embodiments but are pointed out only in several of the FIG S. When fastener 10 is set tail part 70C of annular means 26 is deformed against lower and nonaccessible surface 18 of inner workpiece 16, as shown in FIG. 2, chamfer 45 of inner section 38 is abutted up against chamfer 59 of shoulder section 56, and locking ring 30 is compressed in locking groove 50 and deformed and compressed into recess 60 under drive nut 28. Further rotation of stem member 24 relative to drive nut 28 causes the stem to twist off and break relatively smoothly at break groove 52 without stem recoil thereby producing a joint having relatively high preload retention. Tail part 70C of annular means 26 preferably is gradient hardened so that tail part 70C will be deformed into a bulbed configuration which is pressed over a substantial part of nonaccessible surface 18 of inner workpiece 16 as shown in FIG. 2 and FIG. 10 of another embodiment of this invention. Gradient hardening is well known in the art and forms no part of this invention. Turning now to FIG. 3, a second embodiment of this invention, depicted by fastener 110, is shown wherein the plug portion of stem member 124 contains annular locking groove 150 which is adjacent to a inner section 138 which has an outside diameter which is larger than the outside diameter of externally threaded portion 32. Annular means 126 comprises annular nondeformable piece 176 and annular deformable piece 178. Nondeformable piece 176 contains chamfer 180 which abuts recess 182 in deformable piece 178. Annular locking ring 130 is similar in configuration and material to ring 30 of FIG. 1. When fastener 110 is set, locking ring 130 is compressed into locking groove 150 and the space between stem member 124, recess 160 and drive nut 28. When fastener 110 is set, deformable piece 178 is deformed upwards and outwards against nonaccessible surface 18 of inner workpiece 18, as shown in FIG. 4. Deformation of piece 178 is achieved by gripping flat surfaces 34 of stem member 124 and drive nut 28 with standard wrench, and by turning stem member 124 relative to drive nut 28, causing stem member 124 to be pulled longitudinally outwardly through workpieces, in the direction of arrow 86, causing deformable piece 178 to engage chamfer 180 and be deformed upwards and outwards. As stem member 124 is further advanced the top portion of piece 178 engages lower surface 18 whereupon further advancement of stem 124 in the direction of arrow 86 causes piece 178 to be turned radially inwardly along surface 18. Further advancement of stem member 124 will cause fastener 110 to set so that piece 178 has been deformed upwardly and outwardly abutting a relatively wide annular area of surface 18, while locking ring 130 has been tightly compressed to locking groove 150 and recess 160. Further rotation of the stem member relative to the drive nut causes the outer portion of stem member 124 to break smoothly and cleanly at break groove 52, without stem member recoil, thereby separating the outer portion and drive nut 28 from the plug portion of stem member 124 and securing the workpieces as shown in FIG. 4. Turning now to FIG. 5, a third embodiment of this invention, depicted by fastener 210, is shown wherein annular head 254 has an annular recess adjacent the outer surface and inside diameter thereof. The recess has annular chamfer 286a at an acute angle to the axis of the fastener which begins at the inside diameter of annular means 226. Annular notch 286b is adjacent to chamfer 286a and the top outer surface of annular head 254. Chamfer 286a and notch 286b form a longitudinal recessed surface in annular means 226. Fastener 210 contains annular locking ring 230 having an outer longitudinal surface which is substantially identical to the longitudinal recessed surface of annular means 226 and in abutting relationship thereto. Locking ring 230 has an internally threaded inside diameter adaptable for screwing onto externally threaded portion 32 of stem member 224. Annular means 226 comprises annular non deformable piece 276 and annular deformable piece 278. Nondeformable piece 276 contains chamfer 280 which abuts recess 282 in deformable piece 278. The tail portion of stem member 224 contains stem head 36 and inner section 238 which extends into the plug portion of the stem member. Inner section 238 is adjacent to externally threaded portion 32. The inside diameter of piece 276 and 278 are equal, and are slightly larger than the outside diameter of inner section 238. As with fastener 110, when fastener 210 is set, deformable piece 278 is deformed upwards and outwards against nonaccessible surface 18 as shown in FIG. 6. Setting of fastener 210 is achieved by gripping wrenching flats 34 of stem member 224 and drive nut 228 with standard wrenches and turning stem member 224 relative to drive nut 228, thereby causing stem member 224 to be pulled longitudinally outwardly through the workpieces in the direction of arrow 86 causing piece 278 to engage chamfer 280 and be deformed upwards and outwards in the manner described with regard to fastener 110 in FIG. 4. When fastener 210 is set, locking ring 230 is compressed into the space between threads 32, the longitudinal recess surfaces formed by chamfer 286a and notch 286b, and drive nut 28. After the fastener is set, further tightening causes the outer portion of stem member 224 to break smoothly and cleanly at break groove 52, without stem member recoil, thereby separating the outer portion of stem member 224 and drive nut 28, and securing the workpieces as shown in FIG. 6. A fourth embodiment of this invention is shown in FIG. 7 in which stem member 324 has externally threaded section 32 extending from the outer extremity of stem member 324 to stem head 36. Annular means 326 comprises annular non deformable piece 376 and annular deformable piece 378. Piece 376 contains chamfer 380 which abuts recess 382 in piece 378. Piece 376 has internally threaded section 384 extending from outer surface of annular head 354 longitudinally along the plug portion of piece 376. Internally threaded section 384 is adapted to be screwed onto externally threaded section 32 of stem member 324. Setting of fastener 310 is achieved by gripping wrenching flats 34 and drive nut 28 thereby causing deformable piece 378 to be deformed in the manner shown in FIG. 8. After fastener 310 is set, further turning of stem member 324 relative to drive nut 28 causes stem member 324 to break smoothly and cleanly at break groove 52, without stem member recoil, thereby separating drive nut 28 and outer portion from the plug portion of stem member 24 and thereby securing the workpieces as shown in FIG. 8. A fifth embodiment of this invention is depicted by fastener 410 in FIG. 9. Stem member 424 comprises wrench flats 34, externally threaded section 32, break groove 52, stem head 36 and cylindrical inner section 438. Fastener 410 also comprises annular locking ring 430 having internally threaded section 488 which is adapted to be screwed onto threaded section 32. Annular means 426 having annular head 454 is cylindrical in construction having one outside diameter and one inside diameter over both the intermediate part and tail part thereof. The inside diameter of the tail part of annular means 426 is just slightly larger than the outside diameter of inner section 438 of stem member 424. Annular head 454 contains annular recess 460. Annular ring 430 contains a flange section 490 which has a contour matching recess 460. Fastener 410 is set using standard wrenches as described in other embodiments. Stem member 424 is then turned relative to drive nut 28 thereby advancing the stem member in the direction of arrow 86 relative to the workpieces. The tail part of annular means 426 is deformed in the manner described for the tail part of fastener 10 shown in FIGS 1 and 2. Further advancement of stem member 424 causes locking ring 430 to be tightly compressed into recess 460 and the space between threaded section 32, annular means 426 and drive nut 28. Further rotation of stem member 424 relative to drive nut 28 causes the outer portion of the stem member to break smoothly and cleanly at break groove 52 without stem member recoil as in the other embodiments previously described and secures the workpieces as shown in FIG. 10. A further embodiment of my invention, which is adaptable and useful on all previously described embodiments involves increasing the friction between the drive nut and the outer top surface of the annular head of the annular means. This can be achieved by modifying either the surface of the drive nut which is adjacent to the annular head, or the outer top surface of the annular head, or both surfaces. Nonlimiting examples of methods of modifying such surfaces are abrading, coating, and knurling. It is known that if the drive nut is allowed to be screwed down tighter and tighter against the head of the annular means as the fastener is set that a tensile force is induced in the stem member at the point at which the stem member exits the annular means and this tensile force will reduce the maximum torque that can be applied to the fastener and the gripping force of the fastener. This undesirable tensile force can be reduced by increasing the friction between the surfaces of the drive nut and the annular head. It is preferable in all the above embodiments to rotate the stem member and hold the drive nut stationery. However it is to be understood that the stem member could be held stationary and the drive nut rotated. All the embodiments shown sever the stem member at the break groove smoothly and cleanly without stem member recoil, thereby producing joints having relatively high preload retention. Furthermore, the embodiments described herein do not require a special tool for gripping and pulling the removable portion of the stem member. Because a twisting motion is applied to the stem relative to the workpieces to sever the removable portion of the stem member, rather than merely a tension pull, improved joints are produced. Some users of composite type blind fasteners do not allow the use of pull type fasteners because stem recoil damages the fibers of the installation making the invention attractive to such users. Furthermore, since standard tools may be used to set the fasteners of this invention a minimum of free space is required on the accessible side of the outer workpiece, thereby enabling the fasteners of this invention to be used where other types of blind fasteners can not. The break off of the stem is generally at a point substantially flush with the surrounding surfaces of the accessible side of the installation. However, the term substantially flush as used herein means that the stem breaks off at a point that may be slightly above or below such surfaces. Further embodiments of the invention are provided, wherein While it will be apparent that the preferred embodiment disclosed herein offers distinct advantages over prior art fasteners, the tail part of the annular means depicted in FIGS. 2 and 10 can be substituted for the tail part of FIGS. 4, 6, 8 and 12 if desired and vice versa.