# Gauge for measuring the level or the conductance of a liquid present between two electrodes.

## Abstract
The gauge consists of two main electrodes, viz. a measuring electrode M and a compensation electrode R acting as reference electrode, cooperating each with an earthed counter electrode, so that two plate capacitors with capacities CM and CR or two measuring cells with conductivities epsilon M and epsilon R can be formed. An electronic circuitry determines the quotient of the capacities and conductivities respectively, said quotient being a measure for the liquid level and the liquid conductance respectively. In a first event the electrode surface area functions as variable, since the measuring electrode is formed as a rightangled triangle and the compensation electrode as a straight strip. In the second event the surface areas of measuring and compensation electrodes are kept equal, but functions the distance between measuring electrode and counter electrode as variable, in which the distance between main electrode and counter electrode increases linearly, whereas that between compensation electrode and counter electrode is kept constant.

## Claims
C L A I M S 1. Gauge for measuring the liquid level in a vessel or flowtube in a capacitive way, whereto a measuring electrode M and a reference electrode R are provided in the vessel or the like, which can cooperate with a wall or part thereof, acting then as counter electrode to form capacities CM and CR with the liquid to be measured in the vessel or the like acting as dielectric, in which the quotient Cm CR is directly proportional to the liquid height, characterized in that the reference electrode is constructed as a compensation electrode, being of the same length as the measuring electrode and arranged parallel thereto, in which the difference in shape or surface area with respect to the counter electrode between the measuring and compensation electrodes is such that the result of the division of the capacities CM and CR indicates a linear relationship of the liquid height or a relationship of higher order. 2. Gauge for measuring the conductance of a liquid, present between two opposite electrodes in a vessel or conduit pipe, to which pipe a measuring electrode M and reference electrode R are provided in the vessel or the like, cooperating with a wall or part thereof, acting as counter electrode, so as to form cells, having a conductivity b or R with the measuring liquid in the vessel or the like between said electodes as conducting medium, in which the quotient of SM and 6 is a measure for mM a the conductance of the liquid, characterizedin that the reference electrode is formed as a compensation electrode being of the same length as the measuring electrode and arranged parallel thereto, in which the differences in shape or surface area with respect to the counter electrode between the measuring and compensation electrodes is such that the result of the division of the conductivities SM and CrR indicates a linear relationship of the conductivity or a relationship of higher order. 3. Gauge according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the compensation electrode has the shape of a rectangle and the measuring electrode that of a rightangled triangle. 4. Gauge according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the compensation electrode has the shape of a rightangled triangle and the measuring electrode that of a parabola. 5. Gauge according to any of claims 1 4, characterized in that the slanting side of the triangle has a stepwise profile. 6. Gauge according to any of claims 1 4, characterized in that the mathematical relationship expressed by the shape of the compensation and measuring electrode respectively, includes for each of them also a relationship or higher order, provided there be always between them a difference in order equal to one. 7. Gauge according to any of claims 1 5, characterized in that the shape of the compensation and measuring electrodes is such that the result of the division of the two capacities CM and CR indicates a relationship of second order. 8. Gauge according to any of the preceding claims, characterized in that the measuring and compensation electrodes 33, 39 and 31 respectively are provided on either side of one and the same insulating substrate or carrier 32 . 9. Gauge according to any of the preceding claims, characterized in that the measuring amplifier is controllable for 50 to 75 tof its linear range and that above that value a switch over to a higher measuring range occurs, whereas each change over is indicated by the glowing up of a signal lamp or any other indicating means. 10. Gauge according to claim 7, characterized in that in the circuitry to which the immersed electrodes are connected, the amplifiers are, below a given threshold, only partly controllable, whereas a function switch is included, which is activated when said threshold is exceeded, and which upon each activation brings the measuring range at a higher level and which makes a LED glowing. 11. Gauge according to claims 7 or 8, characterized in that the compensation amplifier switches over along with and proportionally with the measuring amplifier, such that the ratio between the two capacities remains constant before and after the switching over. 12. Gauge according to any of the preceding claims, characterized in that for measuring the interface between an underlying heavier liquid and a superimposing useful liquid, the triangle electrode is placed into the liquid having its narrow side turned downwards 13. Gauge according to any of claims 1 9, characterized in that for measuring the interface between an underlying useful liquid and a superimposing useless liquid, the triangle electrode is placed into the liquid having its narrow side turned upwards. 14. Gauge according to claim 10 or 11, characterized in that next to the arrangement of a compensation electrode and measuring electrode, still a second similar electrode arrangement is provided, reflected as mirror image about a horizontal plane, in which the upper arrangement measures a first interface and the lower arrangement measures a second interface. 15. Gauge according to any of the preceding claims, characterized in that the counter electrode is constructed as a tube, being placed over the two electrodes together or over each electrode separately. 16. Gauge according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the compensation and or the measuring electrodes are constructed as spatial wire work bodies having at short distance the earthed counter electrode. 17. Gauge according to claim 16, characterized in that the counter electrode is constructed as a straight wire, being arranged centrally within the wire work bodies. 18. Gauge according to claim 16, characterized in that the counter electrode is constructed, like the main electrode measuring and or compensation electrode as a spatial wire work body. 19. Gauge according to claim 18,characterized in that the main electrode and its associated counter electrode are wound in a coil like fashion, in which the turns of the counter electrode are lying between the turns of the associated main electrode. 20. Gauge according to any of claims 15 19, characterized in that the main electrode measuring electrode and compensation electrode and the measuring tube or measuring wire acting as counterelectrode, form together an integral unit, which, when inserted into a liquid vessel, is galvanically insulated therefrom. 21. Capacitive level gauge for measuring the liquid level in a vessel or conduit pipe in a capacitive way, whereto a measuring electrode M and a compensation electrode R are provided in the vessel or the like, cooperating with a measuring tube acting as counter electrode, in which the compensation electrode is of the same length as the measuring electrode and arranged parallel thereto, characterized in that the measuring electrode M and the wall part of the measuring tube, acting as counter electrode are disposed opposite each dher,siihthat the distance inbetween, in horizontal direction, is variable whereas the distance between the compensation electrode R and the opposite wall part of the measuring tube is constant so that division of the capacities CM and CR yields a linear or higher order relationship with the liquid height to be measured. 22. Capacitive level gauge according to claim21, characterized in that the wall part of the measuring tube opposite the measuring electrode N and or the measuring electrode itself is slanting. 23. Capacitive level gauge according to claim22, characterized in that for use in a normal liquid for example oii water system the wall part of the measuring tube cooperating with the measuring electrode is inclined, its bottom edge being nearer to the axis of the gauge than its top edge. 24. Capacitive level gauge according to claim 22, characterized in that for use in a normal liquid system the wall part of the measuring tube cooperating with the measuring electrode is straight, while the measuring electrode itself is inclined, its top edge being nearer to the axis than its bottom edge. 25. Capacitive level gauge according to claim23 or, character ized in that in a symmetrical arrangement of a multi sided carrier body for the electrodes, the wall parts of the measuring tube on the one and on the other sides, cooperating with the measuring electrodes on the one and on the other sides, and or said measuring electrodes themselves are inclined, whereas the compensation electrodes are provided on the carrierbody opposite each other on the two other sides and have a constant distance with respect to the opposed wall parts of the measuring tube. 26. Capacitive level gauge according to claim 23 or24, characterized in that the carrier body has in cross section the shape of a triangle, and in that the measuring electrodes are provided on two sides and the compensation electrode on the third side. 27. Capacitive level gauge according to any of claims 21 26v, characterized in that the main electrodes measuring electrode and compensation electrode and the measuring tube acting as counterelectrode, form together an integral unit, which, when inserted into a liquid vessel, is galvanically insulated therefrom. 28. Capacitive level gauge according to any of claims 21 27, characterized in that the wall part cooperating with an electrode and or the electrode itself exhibit one or more kinks. 29. Level gauge according to any of claims 21 28, characterized in that the wall part cooperating with the measuring electrode is formed with a stepwise profile and the measuring electrode itself is divided correspondingly into mutually separated sub electrodes.

## Description
Short title Gauge for measuring the level or the conductance of a liquid present between two electrodes. The invention relates to a capacitive level gauge for measuring the liquid level in a vessel or flow tube in a capacitive way, whereto a measuring electrode M and a reference electrode R are provided in the vessel or the like, which can cooperate with a wall or part thereof, acting then as counter electrode to form capacities CM and CR with the liquid to be measured in the vessel or the like acting as dielectric, in which the quotient CM CR is directly proportional to the liquid height. Such gauges are being applied in liquid vessels, tanks such as oil tanks of petrol service stations and the like containers, in which the gauge does not only measures the liquid level, but also should be able to signalize any deviation from the composition of the liquid.Apart therefrom such gauges should be able to be used for controlling water levels in rivers and the like. Thusfar level gauges could be divided into three categories I. The capacitive level gauge with one single electrode standard gauge II. The capacitive level gauge with reference electrode reference gauge III. Three terminal method with auxiliary electrode divided into parts. I. The gauge of the first category. A rod like measuring electrode is placed in the centre of the vessel or the like, because it cooperates with the wall of the vessel acting as counter electrode. The capacitor so formed, is of the cylindrical type and its capacity is defined by the formula e,. 2XL C pF 1 ln D d in which t the dielectric constant of the liquid L the length with which the rod electrode reaches into the liquid D the distance of the rod electrode to the wall d the diameter of the rod electrode The measured capacity is proportional with L and hence a measure for the liquid height. In view of the big distance from the centre of the vessel to the wall of the vessel, the sensitivity of the gauge is not great.Another disadvantage is that the electrode does not extend to the bottom of the vessel and therefore the L is not quite the same as the liquid height H. There are still a number of other factors which affect the measurement, so that the eventual precision to be obtained is not better than 2 . In many cases, however, this is amply sufficient. Besides by placing the measuring electrode within a measuring tube, the sensitivity of the measurement is greatly enhanced. This measuring tube serves then as counter electrode in the capacitor. II. The gauge of the second category. In the extension of the central measurement electrode M at the lower side thereof, is placed a ference electrode R , which electrodes each form with the wall of the vessel or of the measuring tube a capacityCM or CR. The quotient of these capacities yields a signal being proportional to the liquid height because the capacity of the reference electrode, once the liquid in the vessel or the like has risen past the reference electrode, is constant. However, if the composition of the liquid for example oil in the vicinity of the reference electrode deviates from that of the liquid in the vicinity of the measuring electrode, it does have influence on the measurement of the quotient signal. However, it is not simple to take into account a correction for this type of errors.Especially if water collects near the reference electrode, then as a consequence of the fact that the dielectric constant of water is 80 times that of air, the measurement evidently becomes disturbed to a large extent without it being known exactly how to correct this fault. III. Three terminal method. Here the auxiliary electrode is constructed from a number of superimposed sub electrodes being spaced mutually a certain distance. If a sub electrode, somewhere on the electrode, is partly covered with a liquid, said part can be measured between 0 and 100 of the scale. The sub electrode, preceding the sub electrode in consideration, is completely immersed into the liquid and serves as reference for changes in composition of the liquid, Still there is a portion above the measuring portion, which is completely in the gas phase that upper portion serves as reference for changes in the gas cap. All covered electrode parts are processed in a memory so that the level can be measured rather precisely. The manner in which referencesb are made, makes the gauge suitable for small level ranges, viz. corresponding to the height of each sub electrode, which, by means of a memory, are summed up to the total height. IV Capacitive level gauge with automatic compensation. For the reasons afore mentioned the reference electrode R of the level gauge according to the invention has been replaced by a compensation electrode C . This liquid gauge distinguishes itself therefore by the fact that the reference electrode is constructed as a compensation electrode, being of the same length as the measuring electrode and arranged parallel thereto, in which the difference in shape or surface area with respect to the counter electrode between the measuring and compensation electrodes is such that the result of the division of the capacities CM and CR indicates a linear relation ship of the liquid height or a relationship of higher order. Apart from these capacitive level measurements it is possible to measure the conductivity while using the same electrode arrangement. For, if the electrodes are bare so not coated against short circuiting with the measuring tube , they can be used very well as electrodes for performing a conductivity measurement, provided the electronics therefor be adapted. The results are then quite the same as with the capacitive measurements. Also herewith changes in the conductivity of the liquids can be compensated automatically with the models hereafter to be discussed, or even next to the height measurement the conductivity itself can be determined. The invention is therefore also related to a gauge for measuring the conductivity of a liquid, present between two opposite electrodes in a vessel or conduit pipe, to which end a measuring electrode M and reference electrode R are provided in the vessel or the like, cooperating with a wall or part thereof, acting as counter electrode, so as to form cells having a conductivity SM or SR with the measuring liquid in the vessel or the like R between said electrodes as conducting medium, in which the quotient of J and crR M R is a measure for the conductivity of the liquid.This gauge is characterized in that the reference electrode is formed as a compensation electrode being of the same length as the measuring electrode and arranged parallel thereto, in which the differences in shape or surface area with respect to the counterelectrode between the measuring and compensation electrodes is such that the result of the division of the conductivities SM and GR indicates a linear M R relationship of the liquid conductivity or a relationship of higher order. Where in the following there is question of capacities CM and CR resp. level or height, they can also be read as conductivities M and R resp.. Owing to this embodiment the compensation electrode sees at each level the same liquid composition seen by the measuring electrode.Thus there cannot longer occur differences in the liquid composition which said one electrode does see and said other electrode does not see . In this manner a kind of automatic compensation is obtained. This automatic compensation is due to the fact that the compensation electrode contrary to the reference electrode is of the same length as the measuring electrode.The associated electronics can be compared with the electronics of the reference system, but it has more possibilities. In a practical embodiment the compensation electrode is placed next to the measuring electrode and the two electrodes are provided on one and the same rod sandwich type , The compensation electrode is in the simplest form a straight dimensioned element, provided on a plastics substrate. On the other side is provided the measuring electrode. This entity, constructed as sandwich, is put in a square measuring tube forming the counter electrode both for the compensation electrode and the measuring electrode. Since the compensation electrode is straight and is disposed parallel to a pair of opposing straight walls of the measuring tube, a capacity is measured therebetween, being directly proportional to the liquid height, as is also the case in formula 1 to wit A Cc or 5 pF 2 pF in which relative dielectric constant of the liquid A surface of the immersed part of the electrode S distance electrode to measuring tube.Since A h.B and B width of the capacitor plates, is a constant, it follows that CC h The measured signal of the compensation capacity can therefore be compared with the output signal of the standard electrode category I . On the other hand the compensation electrode can also be given a semi cylindrical shape and be disposed parallel to a round measuring tube.The capacity of the capacitor C C thus formed, satisfies the relation I and is again L h The above considerations are also valid for a capacitor CM formed between the measuring electrode and the cooperating wall of a square or round measuring tube. The division result of CM and Cc would then be no longer proportional with the liquid height whereas each of them separately is The invention is based on the recognition that there should be a difference in form between the two electrodes, because if the shape is the same, the division result is no function of the liquid height. For this reason the level gauge of the invention is characterized in that the compensation electrode has the shape of a rectangle and the measuring electrode that of a rightangled triangle. These mathematical shapes are applicable both on flat plates and on cylindrical. plates. In this manner a continuous reading of the liquid height is obtained which appeared to be not possible thusfar with the existing liquid level gauges. In principle the deviation in shape between the measuring electrode and the compensation electrode can be at random, provided the result of the division of the two capacities do not yield a constant, but a continuously increasing value with increasing height. By the above measure this leads to a linear relation, although another continuous relation is also useful. The same linear relation is obtained, if the compensation electrode has the shape of a rightangled triangle and the measuring electrode that of a parabola. Under certain circumstances it is of advantage when the slanting side of the triangle has a stepwise profile. The new system lends itself for measuring both great differences in height over tens of meters, as in large storage tanks, and small differences in height of some centimeters. In the latter case, and if the horizontal dimension of the liquid basin permits same, a gauge is to be preferred, having in vertical direction smaller and in a horizontal direction greater dimensions.Then a gauge is used, characterized in that the mathematical relationship expressed by the shape of the comDensation and measuring electrode respectively, includes for each of them also a relationship of higher order, provided there be always between them a difference in order equal to one. Now too the result is linear. If another than linear relation is desired, for example a square one, a gauge is recommended, characterized in that the shape of the compensation and measuring electrodes is such that the result of the division of the two capacities CM and CR indicates a relationship of second order. Preferably the measuring and compensation electrodes are provided on either side of one and the same insulating substrate or carrier. Other applications of the present capacitive level gauge relate to A. Interface measurement This subject includes the following sub subjects 1. The precision and sensitivity respectively of the measurement with a normal oil water mixture 2. Influence water content 3. Use of the triangle with a reversed two liquid layer system 4. Use of the triangle with a three liquid layer system.B. Shaping of the triangle This subject includes two sub subjects 1. Wire work realisation 2. Cooperation with earthed wire.A. Interface measurement 1. Sensitivity of measurement The liquid gauge is suitable virtually for any liquid. But a particular application terrain is reserved for the present gauge when measuring the liquid level of hydrocarbons oil or petrol in storage tanks. When these liquids have just left the source, they contain a given percentage of water. In the formula for the capacity, being a measure for the liquid level in the reservoir, play an important role. Its value is for oil equal to 2, but for water, being present in the oil in small quantities,E 80. Or, if the water were homogeneously divided within the oil, then there were no problems, for, the average r would be only a fraction greater than the r of oil.The problems arise however, since the water is not dissolved into the oil, but spread irregularly within the oil. If the sensitivity of the gauge is set for oil, because this is here the useful liquid, whereas the water is the undesired component of the mixture, and all at a sudden water appears in the region that functions as dielectric for the capacitor, then the gauge will not be able to work, will get overranged and will not be able to accomplish any measurement of the oil liquid level, as long as that water is in the neighbourhood. One has tried to neutralize this disturbing presence of water by homogenising the liquid flowing along the gauge, containing one moment water, the next moment no water, by means of a stirring apparatus, but this method is unpractical, since one prefers to keep oil and water apart. By means of the gauge according to the invention, it is possible, in spite of the presence of water in the crude oil, to measure the liquid level with reasonable precision over the entire height of the vessel without homogenisation. An example as illustration a of the existing situation The signals EM measuring capacitor and ER compensation capacitor go to amplifiers being adjusted for measuring hydrocarbons with an average r of about 2 with possible variations in r of for example up to 2,5 in the dry state. If one meets a water layer under the hydrocarbon level, then the amplifier will quickly be driven to its full power into saturation because r of H2O 80 which variable is a multiplying factor in the capacitor formula, so that further risings of the liquid level are not noticed by the gauge. b of the improved situation. The amplifier is driven within its linear control range to for example 50 of the scale value for a full tank, filled with a liquid, of which r 2 so that for liquids having a Er that varies between 1.5 and 2.5, the amplifier will be driven up to its full power, that means is controllable over its total linear control range from 0 to 100 .The remainder second half of the scale range can be employed for variations in r up to 2.5 and for further risings of the liquid level. 2. Influence water content on the measurement. As long as the oil is dry , the amplifier on the base of the effectuated adjustments can never be controlled or driven to beyond its linear control range get over ranged . In normal cases the level indication is situated in a tank full of oil and a r 2 at 50 of the scale. If this oil has a g 2,4, then at 60 of the scale. Just because of fluctuations in the g of oil, the provision is made to have a little clearance in the scale deflection in reserve. If, however, the oil is mixed with small quantities of water, thus when the oil is wet , the output of the amplifier will increase to beyond 100 beyond its linear range the amplifier now becomes over ranged out of range .A circuitry provides for setting at that 100 a new zero capacity C but now at a higher measuring range, such that the amplifier is again driven to 50 or half of its linear controlling capacity for a r variation of 2.5 to 3. This switching over is indicated visually by the glowing up of a LED If the amplifier exceeds again its maximum 100 linear controlling capacity due to a new layer of water, or still due to the old layer switching over to higher scale ranges will continue until at last a range is found, in which the amplifier can operate between 50 and 100 of its controlling capacity. Each time that the thickness of the water layer occurring in the oil between the electrodes, exceeds a given threshold value, in which the output of the amplifier is driven up to full power more than 100 and thus the amplifier becomes over ranged , this switchingover towards a higher measuring range takes place, for example for every 2.5 cm thickness of the water layer. The number of glowingLED s indicates then how often said switching over has occurred and how thick the total water layer between the electrodes is. To this end the capacitive level gauge according to the invention is characterized in that in the circuitry to which the immersed electrodes are connected, the amplifiers are, below a given threshold, only partly controllable, whereas a function switch is included, which is acticated when said threshold is exceeded, and which upon each activation brings the measuring range at a higher level and which makes a LED glowing. Thus finally in the result of the measured liquid height two inexactitudes can be present, which are caused by the fact that a the oil liquid, for which one has started from a valuer 2.0, comprises a component with a higher r value, for example 2.4 b the water as a whole has not yet reached the layer thickness at which switching over to a higher measurement range occurs. This is also valid, when switching over has already taken place one or more times, for the still remaining H20, if any. These deviations, however, remain completely within the precision conditions which this kind of gauges is subjected to by the Inspection of Weights and Measures. The imperfections are therefore virtually negligible, so that it can be stated rightfully that thanks to the measures according to the invention, viz. using the driving or controlling capacity of the amplifier only for 50 of its linear range switching over to a higher measuring range, and signalling each of these transitions with for example LED indication or a counter , the level measurement itself by the presence of these disturbing components, is not affected essentially. If the measuring amplifier switches over, the reference amplifier will change along, proportionally, so that the ratio between the two capacities CM and CR remains the same. In this way too the level measurement has not changed. The numerical water thickness indication by LED s or counter can be replaced by an analogous indication.3. Use of the triangle with a reversed liquid system .a In the preceding part of the specification there has always been question of a straight electrode for the reference signal and a triangular electrode called triangle having its narrower part turned downwards for the measuring signal, when there is question of a normal oil water system, in which water is in the minority.In that case oil is the useful liquid which is to be measured. Thanks to the aforementioned measure the water is, as it were, eliminated, so that always a half scale range is left for controlling the useful liquid oil in the event that oil with a higher r value 2.5 instead of 2.0 is present is the liquid. In that case the triangle is disposed correctly . In order to judge whether the triangle is disposed correctly or wrong , onw should watch the interface line, that means the bordering line between two liquids. In the normal case the underlying liquid is for example water 6 r 80 and the superimposed, lighter in weight, liquid is for example oil gr circa 2 . If the vessel is almost full with oil, the interface line is virtually near the bottom. The ratio of the surfaces wetted by water is then 2 1 1 . If the vessel is almost completely filled with water, the interface line is nearly at the top. The ratio of the surfaces wetted by water is now 01 02 1 sa. Between these ratio limits minimum 1 and maximum 6 when the slanting side of the triangle forms an angle of 45 with the vertical it should be possible to measure the interface. It is clear that interface measuring requires quite another adjustment of the control capacity of the amplifier, whereas besides always should be taken into account fluctuations in the r of the oil. In the reversed case there is in the lower part of the tank a heavy oil layer, for example ECH ethylchloroheptane,Y 4 to 5, g 2.4 . On this liquid the water, being lighter in weight, floats. If the vessel is almost completely filled with the heavy oil, the interface is nearly at the top, and the ratio between the surfaces is 0 02 1 loa. In the event that the vessel is almost completely filled with water, the interface is nearly at the bottom and the surface ratio is O2 1 6i. It will be clear that in such a case the gauge operates reversely . The gauge measures with increasing quantity of water a diminishing surface ratio, viz. from 1 11 maximum to 1 6 minimum . On the scale it would become necessary to read from 100 to 08. In order to exclude this illogical situation, the triangle is, each time that the interface measurement occurs in a 1,reversed liquid system, reversed too. Thus when the vessel is almost completely filled with oil, the interface is almost at the top and for the surface ratio is valid 01 02 1 1 . In the case that the vessel is almost completely filled with water, the interface is nearly at the bottom, and the surface ratio with increasing water quantity is 1 5 .By this reversal of the triangle it is possible with increasing quantity of water in the vessel, to measure between surface ratios from 1 11.Remark Heretofore it has been explained that on applying the gauge in a reversed liquid system the triangled measuring electrode must be reversed. However, when in the dividing operation the components of the quotient are reversed, thus CR CM and CR m are determined, the same result is obtained, however, without reversal of the measuring electrode.4. Three liquid layer system. If the composition of the liquid in the vessel is such that the heavy oil is in the lower part of the vessel, water floating thereabove and a light weight oil layer floating on said water, then the two interfaces can be monitored by means of a double electrode system of compensation and measuring electrodes, in which the triangles of both systems are disposed opposite each other in mirror image reflection with respect to a horizontal plane and are facing each other with their narrow sides. The interface of the upper two liquid system is measured by the upper electrode system, and the lower interface of the lower two liquid system by the lower electrode system. However it will be clear that depending on the specific weight of the components in a combination of three liquids, also those cases can occur, in which the two triangles are disposed each with their narrow side turned downwards, or tumed upwards, or are facing each other with their wide side in mirror image reflection. This system can be extended, without any restriction, to any number of interfaces, in which the position of the triangles opposite each other, is defined by the specific weight of the liquids, which meet each other at the interface. B. Shaping of the triangle. 1. Wire work configuration. The rectangular compensation electrodes and the triangle measuring electrodes can be constructed as a panel, but in a particular simple form also as spatial wire work f igures. The rectangular electrode is then replaced by a cylindrical wound coil, and the triangle electrode by a conically would coil, or also a straight coil, but with a greater density of the turns. This is accompanied with a considerable loss of capacitive surface. To compensate for that loss, the counter electrode is brought closest possible to the main electrode, so that the d in the denominator of the capacitor formula becomes smallest possible. This can be executed in several manners, of which three will be mentioned here a an earthed tube, whose inner surface functions as counter electrode, is placed around the two electrodes or around each of them separately. 2. Cooperation with earthed wire.b One places in any of these wire electrodes centrally a straight, earthed wire.c One places in the spaces between the turns of the wire electrodes the turns of the earthed counter electrode, constructed as a similar wire work figure.So doing particular small dimensions are obtained between corresponding wire parts of the main electrode and the counter electrode and therefore an extremely small d. C. Measurements based on distance variationThe invention further relates to a capacitive level gauge for measuring the liquid level in a vessel or conduit pipe in a capacitive way, whereto a measuring electrode M and a compensation electrode R are provided in the vessel or the like1 cooperating with a measuring tube acting as counter electrode, in which the compensation electrode is of the same length as the measuring electrode and arranged parallel thereto. In an elder proposition there is question of a measuring electrode cooperating with a wall part of the measuring tube. The measuring electrode can be considered as a right angled triangle and the compensation electrode as a straight narrow strip. A level gauge provided with such a measuring electrode can be used for level measurements with great precision. The invention has for its object to propose other combinations of measuring electrode and measuring tube, which are based on the same principle and with which the same, great precision can be obtained.Hence, according to the invention in a main embodiment of this principle the measuring electrode M and the wall part of the measuring tube acting as counter electrode, are disposed opposite each other, so that the distance inbetween, in horizontal direction, is variable whereas the distance between the compensation electrode R and the opposite wall part of the measuring tube is constant so that division of the capacities CM and CR yields a linear or higher order relationship with the liquid height to be measured. In the elder proposition the distance from the measuring and compensation electrodes to the associated wall of the measuring tube remains constant. Solely the surface of the measuring electrode increases with the second power, whereas this remains constant in the gauge according to the invention. In a first embodiment of this main idea, this leads to the measure, that the wall part of the measuring tube opposite the measuring electrode M and or the measuring electrode itself is slanting.The compensation electrode and cooperating wall of the measuring tube are in principle straight. They can also be slanting, provided they remain parallel to eachother. This can anyway be realised in two different manners.In the first place such that for use in a normal liquid for example oil water system the wall part of the measuring tube cooperating with the measuring electrode is inclined, its bottom edge being nearer to the axis of the gauge than its top edge. Under a normal two liquid layer system, here oil water, is to be understood a system in which the useful liquid oil floats on a layer of the polluting liquid water . In the second place this is possible in that for use in a normal liquid system the wall part of the measuring tube cooperating with the measuring electrode is straight, while the measuring electrode itself is inclined, its top edge being nearer to the axis than its bottom edge. In these cases measurement of the reversedquotient ofCM and CR, so CR CM leads to a rising linear relation with the height of the liquid level. In the case of a reversed liquid system one has to see to it, that when one likes to measure the reversed quotient Q CR CM, the greatest distance between the measuring electrode and cooperating wall of the measuring tube is at the lower end and the smallest distance therebetween is at the upper end. Remark it will, however, be clear that for obtaining a directly proportional relation between the quotient and the liquid level, one can also take the quotient Q CM CR as in the elder patent application and that when applying the gauge in a normal liquid system, provision has to be made that at the upper end the distance between measuring electrode and cooperating wall of the measuring tube, is smaller than at the lower end, but when applying the gauge in a reversed liquid system, provision must be made that the distance at the upper end is greater than at the lower end. For convenience1 s sake an electrode carrier body is applied, on which the measuring and compensation electrode are applied.A preferred embodiment is constructed such that in a symmetrical arrangement of a multi sided carrier body for the electrodes, the wall parts of the measuring tube on the one and on the other sides, cooperating with the measuring electrodes on the one and on the other sides, and or said measuring electrodes themselves are inclined, whereas the compensation electrodes are provided on the carrier body opposite each cther on the two other sides and have a constant distance with respect to the opposed wall parts of the measuring tube. Another embodiment of the carrier body is constructed such that the carrier body has in cross section the shape of a triangle, and in that the measuring electrodes are provided on two sides and the compensation electrode on the third side. Of course, the carrierbody can also be formed as a body of revolution cone, cylinder and the like . Apart therefrom that the main electrodes are mutually fixed on a substrate or carrier body, it is also in view of the close cooperation between the main electrodes and corresponding electrode material coated wall parts of the measuring tube practical to compose all these parts to one integral entity. Therefore the invention proposes that the main electrodes measuring electrode and compensation electrode and the measuring tube acting as counterelectrode, form together an integral unit, which, when inserted into a liquid vessel, is galvcally insulated therefrom. In this manner a gauge is obtained, which can be inserted into a vessel or conduit pipe piping as a separate measuring unit, namely separated therefrom galvanically.A galvanic separation means that the measuring tube with the electrodes unbreakably connected therein, is electrically insulated against the vessel or the conduit pipe. The above facts are in contradiction with a conventional level gauge of the standard type, where the measuring electrode inserted into the vessel just forms with that vessel or conduit pipe a capacitive unit capacitor . The measurement takes place therefore between the wall of the vessel and the electrode. These gauges can also be applied in multi liquid layer systems with two or more interfaces . In that case one puts on or below the measuring tube section, having an inclined wall part, whose lower end is nearer to the axis than its upper end, another section having likewise an inclined wall part, but whose lower end is farther from the axis than its upper end. The total wall of the combined measuring tube sections or measuring electrodes exhibits a kink, viz. an outwardly directed or convex kink or an inwardly directed or concave kink.Of course more than one of these kinks can be applied, also combinations thereof. Hence, it is recommended to apply in such situations a measuring tube, characterized in that the wall part cooperating with an electrode and or the electrode itself exhibit one or more kinks. Since over great heights of the liquid level gauge the inclination of the wall or of the measuring electrode can lead to anunacceptable extent on the gauge, measures are proposed to meet this inconvenience, viz. in that the wall part cooperating with the measuring electrode is formed with a stepwise profile and the measuring electrode itself is divided correspondingly into mutuaThyseparated sub electrodes. All this boils down to the fact that the level gauge is divided into a number of individual level gauges, in which the inclined wall of the tube section each time jumps back is off set .In the measuring circuitry proper each time a switching over to a higher measuring range occurs. The invention need not relate exclusively to level measuring apparatus. It is quite well conceivable that the construction shapes are also applicable to other measuring situations, for example in through flow installations, pressure measurements, weighing technics, wind tunnel, conductivity etc. The invention is hereinafter described with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 1 shows a level gauge of the prior art, provided with one electrode Fig. 2 shows the electric circuitry thereof Fig. 3 shows a measuring arrangement of the prior art of the type in Fig. 1, placed within a metal measuring pipe, Fig. 4 shows a second type of level gauge, also of the prior art, but with a second electrode as reference electrode Fig. 5 shows the electric circuitry thereof Fig. 6 shows a third type of level gauge, again of the prior art, but with an electrode divided into sub electrodes Fig. 7 shows a level gauge with compensation electrode Fig. 8 shows a structure thereof in a measuring pipe Fig. 9 indicates the relation between the height of the liquid and the measured capacity Fig. 10 shows a level gauge with compensation electrode according to the invention Fig. 11 illustrates the relation between liquid height and the measured capacity, analogous to Fig, 9 Fig. 12 is similar to Fig. 11, but indicates the measuring points, so as they really have been found Fig. 13 shows an alternative of the embodiment of Fig. 10 Fig. 14A, B show an electrode arrangement of a level gauge according to the invention with a normal two liquid layer system Fig. 15A, B show the same electrode arrangement of Fig. 14, applied to a reversed two liquid layer system Fig. 16A, B show the same as in Fig. 15, but now the electrode arrangement has also been reversed Fig. 17 20 show four possible electrode arrangements, to be used with various three liquid layer systems Fig. 21 shows again a three angular measuring electrode, in which the influence is investigated of modifying the position of the slanting side Fig. 21A shows a modification of the triangled electrode, such as for example illustrated in Fig. 10 Fig. 22 24 show electrode arrangements in which the electrodes are constructed as wire work figures Fig, 25A C show a first embodiment of the invention, in which one wall of the measuring tube is inclined, the lower part of said one wall being closer to the measuring electrode than its upper part Fig. 26A C illustrate an alternative embodiment of Fig. 25, in which the measuring electrode is inclined, its lower part being closer to the associated wall of the measuring tube than its upper part Fig. 27A C show another alternative of Fig. 25 for a reversed liquid system Fig. 28A F are illustrative for the term reverded liquid system Fig. 29A D and Figures 30A D show a second embodiment, in which the carrier of the electrodes has four sidewalls of which to opposed walls are inclined Fig. 29 for a normal liquid system Fig. 30 for a reversed liquid system Fig. 31A and B show an alternative embodiment of Fig. 29, in which the electrode carrier is in cross section triangular Fig. 31 shows an embodiment in which the measuring tube or electrode is conical Fig. 32A E show an embodiment, in which two or more measuring tube sections, as represented in Fig. 25 27, are combined together, so that the combination of measuring tube sections and or electrodes exhibits on the transition place between the sections, a kink and Fig. 33A and B show an embodiment in which the sections of the measuring tube connect to each other stepwise. In Fig. 1 is shown a level gauge of the standard type, being placed in a liquid vessel 2. The gauge is inserted into the cylindrical vessel 2 by means of a centrally arranged cylindrical pin 3 covered with electrode material or any other cylindrical object. The wall 4 of said vessel functions as counter electrode. With the liquid 5 as dielectric between the electrodes 3, 4 the determination of the liquid height in the vessel is reduced to a capacity measurement, when between the cylinder plate shaped electrodes an alternating voltage of voltage source 7 is connected. The capacity of the capacitor thus formed is proportional with the height, over which the measuring electrode 3 is inserted in the liquid 5. The electric circuitry is shown in Fig. 2. The signal i obtained from the liquid measurement can be transformed directed into a height reading, expressed in cm or m, if may be desired. Since the radius R appears in the denominator of the capacitor formula, the capacity of the capacitor formed is small and therefore also the sensitivity. By putting the measuring electrode into a pipe or tube, this objection can be met with. In Fig. 3 the measuring electrode 3 is disposed centrally within a measuring pipe 8, functioning as counter electrode in substitution or the vessel wall 2. Inhomogenities in the liquid cannot be measured by this gauge. Also the measured height does not quite correspond with the real height. One can provide therefor a fixed correction, so that still the correct value can directly be read. In Fig. 4 and 5 is shown a second type of a known capacitor level gauge, in which a reference electrode 11 is applied. This reference electrode allowd to eliminate the influence, which changes in the dielectric constant of the liquid can have on the measurement, within given limits and provided the liquid be homogeneous. If the liquid is not homogeneous in composition, greater deviations with the reference electrode can arise than with a normal standard measurement. As shown in Fig. 4 the measuring electrode 3 is on its lower side provided with a reference electrode 11. The whole thing is put into a steel measuring pipe 8. When the reference electrode is completely covered, the signal issued will only change by a modification of the dielectric constant of the liquid to be measured. rx The measuring signal of the reference electrode is passed to the amplifier 17 Fig. 5 via oscillator 14. The measuring signal of the measuring electrode is passed to amplifier 16 via oscillator 13.Both signals are passed to an amplifier 18, which conducts the division such that only the level height is shown. If now the dielectric constant of the liquid changes, this will have no effect on the reading, that means will not be observed by the gauge. The above statement only holds of the dielectric constant changes over the entire measuring region. Further the change in dielectric constant may not be greater than 10 of the original value.When the greater changes occur, the amplifier cannot handle this sufficiently so that deviations will occur. This disadvantages of the reference measuring system are that not all effects which can disturb the measurement, are eliminated, such as among others the fact that the dielectric constant of the liquid near the bottom of the vessel thus at the reference electrode can be considerably greater than at the measuring electrode. If the reference electrode has some pollution, this can influence the reference signal.Because the reference electrode is placed down in the vessel, the change of pollution is there greatest. The gauge can only function well if the reference electrode is completely covered with liquid. The lower part in the vessel can therefore not be measured. As appears from the above remarks, the reference measurement is not always reliable and only very restrictively usable. In Fig. 6 a third type of known capacitive level gauge is shown, in which next to the measuring electrode a split reference electrode 21 is present. By the division of the reference electrode 21 into a plurality of small sub electrodes 21A, inhomogenities in the dielectric can be determined more exactly, so that a similar device for localising the intermediary plane or interface 22 between two liquids 23 and 24, and the interface 26 between the liquid 24 and the gas cap 27 is suitable. The disadvantages of the already previously discussed reference measuring system can be removed with an automatic compensation system,Fig. 7 9. In the compensation system on each level of the measuring electrode 3 a feed back is given, originating from a compensation electrode 31. The compensation electrode 31 is put next to the measuring electrode 3 and mounted on the same carrier rod 32. The two electrodes are of the same length. The associated electronics can be compared with the electronics of the reference system Fig. 5 but has more possibilities, as will be discussed later on. The compensation electrode 31 is in principle a straight dimensioned element, provided on a plastics substrate 32 Fig. 7 . The electrode is placed into for example a square measuring pipe 8, forming one plate of the capacitor, such that d1 d2.The compensation electrode 31 measures with respect to the measuring pipe 8. The signal issued by the compensation electrode 31 is shown inFig. 9 one obtains a linear relationship. The same applies to the measuring electrode itself, so that on dividing the signals, the quotient is a constant and the system as such is unsuitable for automatic compensation. In Fig. 10 is shown a measuring system according to the invention. The measuring electrode 33 is in principle disposed next to the compensation electrode 31 and measures directly proportional with respect to the measuring pipe 8 not shown , of which the wall acting as counter electrode, is spaced a distance d from and parallel to the electrodes 31 and 33. The fact that the surface of the measuring electrode is divided by the surface of the compensation electrode 31 explains why the measuring electrode 33 in the upward direction must linearly increase in surface area, in order to obtain a measuring signal that is directly proportional with the liquid height. As can be seen easily, in the system of Fig. 10 holds the relation A. i B.in which A. and Bi are the sub surfaces of the measuring electrode 33 1 1 and the compensation electrode respectively. Elaboration of the formula gives EMI20.1 etc.X capacity associated with the liquid level. From the preceding formula it appears that the output signal of the differential amplifier is directly proportional with the liquid height, independent of the course of the dielectric constant of the liquid and the gas cap. Both signals M and R can be represented in one figure, inclusive the compensated output signal U fig. 11 . The disadvantages adhering to the two preceding measuring systems, are eliminated with the compensation system. With said compensation system is obtained a purily capacitive measuring signal that does not deviate from the real liquid height. Figure 12 is identical to fig. 11, but on a larger scale, in which the experimental measuring points are represented exactly. In fig. 13 is shown a second embodiment of the measuring system according to the invention, with compensation electrode. In this embodiment the compensation electrode 36 is formed as a triangle, whereas the measuring electrode 38 has one of its sides formed as a parabola 39. In figures 14A, B is shown an electrode arrangement consisting of a rectangular compensation electrode 41 and a triangular measuring electrode 42. This arrangement is the same as that of fig. 10. The electrodes are placed into a normal two liquid layer system, for example oil and water, of which system the interface line is shown as dotted line 43. In fig. 14A it is supposed that the vessel not shown is almost completely filled with oil. The interface line 43 is therefore down . The ratio of the water wetted surfaces of the two electrodes 41, 42, so the quotient Q or the ratio 02 01 is as can easily be calculated equal to 1h. In fig. 14B it is assumed that the vessel is almost full with water. The interface 43 is therefore up and the ratio of the surfaces is 5h. In the extreme case there must be a controlling range between the minimum value 1 of the quotient and its maximum value 6 . In fig. 15A, B the electrodes 41, 42 are placed into a reversed two liquid layer system, that is a system in which the use full component oil is not above the useless component water , but below it. In fig. 15A it is supposed that the vessel is almost completely filled with ECH and thus the dotted line of the interface 44 is drawn up . That position corresponds with a surface ratio of water wetted surfaces of 10h. In fig. 15B it is supposed that the vessel is almost completely filled with water. The interface 44 is down and yields a Q 6e. In this case with increasing quantity of water in the vessel, the quotient Q will decrease in the extreme case from 11 to 6. This is illogical. Hence in fig. 16A, B the triangular electrode 46 has been turned upside down. In fig 16A the value of Q is now 1 when there is little water in the vessel and 5 when there is much water in the vessel. So doing the gauge of the reversed liquid system operates similarly as in fig. 14 for the normal liquid system, viz. from i to 6. In figures 17 20 are shown electrode arrangements 51, 52 which can be employed, if in a vessel, tank or storage container a three liquid layer system is present, with two interfaces 53, 54. In fig. 17 the case is shown that the upper two liquid system oil water is a normal system, so that the triangle 56 of the measuring electrode has its narrow side 57 turned downwards.The lower two liquid system water ECH is however a reversed system and therefore the triangular electrode 58 has also been reversed and its narrow side 59 is turned upwards. One can also say that the two electrode arrangements have been mirror image reflected about the symmetry axis 60. In fig. 18 the two electrode arrangements 61, 62 have also been mirror image reflected mutually, but now the normal electrode arrangement 62 is down and the reversed arrangement 61 is sup . In figures 19 and 20 there are still shown two other electrode arrangements 71, 72 76, 77, in which in fig. 19 there is question of two normal two liquid layer systems, one atop the other, and in figure 20 of two reversed two liquid systems, one atop the other. The triangular electrode 81 drawn in the preceding figures, has always been shown as an isosceles rightangled triangle, thus in which the slanting line forms an angle alpha 45 with the vertical. In that case the quotient Q varies, depending on the height of the interface, between 1 and 6. Other angles X are also possible and give rise to other values of O In Fig 21 these values and intermediate values are plotted along the slanting side 82. At the top side number values for O have been denoted for the maximum that can be reached when the angle CC is modified and thus the inclination of the slanting line of the triangle.If this slanting line is given an angle oil 1 and 2 respectively, the value of the maximum Q is 2 and 9 respectively. The electrode 85, shown in fig. 21A, has a slanting side 86 with a stepwise profile. This electrode 85 can be thought to be composed of a number of narrow sub electrodes 87, 88 etc. of ever decreasing length or in the reverse case of ever increasing length, which are combined to one electrode output. The electrodes 84, 85 are placed into a measuring tube, measured with respect to said measuring tube and connected therewith unbreakably. The measuring tube and electrodes as a whole are galvanically separated from and placed into a vessel.Galvanic separation means that the combination is disposed electrically insulated with respect to the vessel, in which the measurements take place. Figures 22 24 do not show the electrodes as panels, but as wire work figuras 91, 92. The excess in surface, which the measuring electrode .92 must have with respect to the compensation electrode 91 is found in a much higher winding density 92 in fig. 22 or a conical winding .93 in fig. 23 . In comparison with a panel shaped electrode, the wire work configuration has undergone a loss of surface, so that the electrostatic capacity is also much smaller. This is compensated for by diminishing the distance d. In fig. 22 is therefore placed around both electrodes .91, 92 a tube 94, whose inner wall 96 is covered with an electrode coating, being earthed at 97. In fig . 23 is applied, in the place of an earthed tube, an earthed wire 98, 99 being disposed within the turns of the electrodes 91, 93. In fig. 24 the earthed wire itself is also wound 89,100 and placed with its turns within the spaces between the turns of the electrodes .91, 93, so that an extreme small d can be obtained. In fig. 25A is shown a level gauge according to the invention in side view, also in plan view fig.25B and in bottom view fig.25C .Contrary to the elder application but also destined for a normal twoliquid system where the surface of the measuring electrode, when considered in an upward direction, increRIs stronger than that of the compensation electrode, and where further the distance between the electrodes and the associating wall of the measuring tube placed around said electrodes, remains constant, is here the distance between measuring electrode slant associating wall parts 106 of the measruging tube 110 increasing, whereas the ratio of the surfaces of the measuring electrodes 101 and the compensation electrode 103 remains constant. The measuring electrode 101 forms with the slanting wall part 106 a capacitor C with variable distance s. The compensation electrode 103 forms with the wall parL108 7 capacitor CR with constant distance s. The electrodes 181, 103 are applied on a carrer l05 . The measuring tube 110 is earthed at 111. On the upper side of the measuring tube 110 measuring circuitry 115 is present, including two oscillator circuits 112, 113 and a divider circuit 114.The oscillator circuit 112 and 113 resp are connected to the capacitor CM and CR resp. and furnish a signal p and q resp. to the divider circuit 114 The capacity of CR isEMI24.1 that of CM isEMI24.2 wherein A hi .r for r, see fig. 25B electrode surface, and t r dielectric constant of the liquid to be measured.For the distance 5 should be taken the average value of the distance 5 0 in the lowest point of the electrode and the distance si in the highest point of the liquid at a given moment. Since the variable s occurs in the denominator of the capacitor formula, one has to determine the quotient Q Q , so that s S s s. p avg 0 appears in the numerator of the quotient. This means that an increasing liquid height hi is accompanied with an increasing value of s. It follows that the height to be determined is directly proportional with the measured quotient Q, which is a linear function of the distance. In the standard embodiment the electrodes and the inner wall of the measuring tube can be coated with PTFE to protect the electrodes and the measuring tube against possible agressive liquids. Fig. 26 illustrates an alternative embodiment of the invention in fig. 25, likewise with a side view fig.26A , plan view fig.26B and bottom view fig. 26C and with an electrid measuring circuit 115. As far as there is question of equal parts as in fig. 25, the same reference numerals will be applied. Parts with a deviating construction form, have received another reference numeral. That is the case with the measuring electrode, now 121, which is not straight, but inclined. Further the measuring tube 130, which instead of the slanting side 106, has a straight side 126. The carrier 125, which was in cross section rectangular, is now in cross section a trapezium. Also here the distance between measuring electrode and cooperating side of the measuring tube increases with rising liquid. In fig. 27 is shown again an alternative form of the level gauge of fig. 25 in side view fig.27A , plan view fig.27B and bottom view fig. 27C , in which equal parts have been indicated with the same reference numerals. In this case the wall 106 of the measuring tube 110 cooperating with the measuring electrode 101 is tapering in an upward direction, so just the reversal of fig.25 and 26. This situation is the reverse of that of fig.25 and 26,when watching the distance si. If one wishes to apply this arrangement in a normal liquid system, then the quotient Q P q must be determined to ensure that a linear relation is measured between the height hi and thedistance si. This case is shown in the measuring circuit 115. Via a small handiness it is possible to determine by means of another sub circuit 116, to which are supplied the signal q and the result of the division Q carried out in the circuit 114, the dielectric constant Zr of the liquid, so that the presence, if any, of traces of water in the oil, which is present between the electrodes of the capacitor, can be detected. If, on the contrary, the signals p and q are supplied to the divider circuit 114 such that the quotient Q Q is measured, then a simple p calculation teaches that this kind of construction is suitable for a reversed liquid system, which will be explained with reference to fg. 28A F From all this, it follows that a given arrangement being suitable for a normal liquid system, need not be reversed per se in order to be suitable for a reversed liquid system. It suffices to exchange the connector pins for the signals p and q mutually in the divider circuit 114. Fig. 28A and B represent the level gauge for use in a normal two liquid layer system. In fig.28A is supposed that the vessel iS full of oil, and in fig.28B full of water. At the place of the interface 132 in fig.28A, the quotient of CR and CM is q Q const. coast for Q N.s N1, for example o o At the place of the interface 133 in fig.28B the quotient Q is Q q p N10 , for example 10 So a rising water level is detectable by an increasing value of N. Fig. 28C and 28D show schematically the case that the level gauge according to the invention is applied in a reversed two liquid layer system, in which the useful ECH is heavier than water and is thus below the interface. In fig. 28C it is supposed that the measuring vessel is almost completely filled with ECH, so that the interface 134 is in the upper part of the vessel. In fig.28D, on the contrary, the vessel is nearly completely filled with water and so the interface 135 is virtually in the lower part of the vessel. At the place of the interface 134 the quotient Q q has a p high value, for example 110, whereas at the place of the interface 135 the quotient Q has a low value, for example 1. Thus with rising interface, the quotient Q decreases.That is illogical. Therefore in figures 4E and F the measuring tube has been reversed. Now in figure iBE a small quantity of H20, so when the interface 136 lies high in the vessel, is accompanied with a low value of Q, for example 1. In figure 2S, when the vessel is almost completely filled with water, the interface 137 lies down in the vessel and that means a high value of Q, for example 10. Hence an increasing quantity of water is now accompanied with a greater value of Q. Figures 29N E show a second embodiment of the invention in a front view A , side view B , plan and bottom view C, D . The measuring electrode A or 41 and the compensation electrode B or143 are constructed as a double, that means they are provided on both sides of a four sided electrode carrier 145. Due to this symmetrical construction of the electrodes on the carrierl45, not the precision is improved in first instance, but the response sensitivity this can lead to a still higher precision.The electrodes of like function are opposite each other and are connected through electrically, as clearly shown in figure . Around the whole assembly a measuring tube 146 has been placed, which is straight, because the measuring electrodes 141 are provided on the slanting sides of the carrierl45. In figures Th D the electrode carrier 145 is reversed with respect to the electrode carrier 45 of fig. 29 and can therefore be used in a reversed liquid system. Figures 31A B show a variant of the electrode carrier 145 of figure 23, which is there in cross section rectangular, whereas this variant is here in cross section triangular. In figure 31A a plan view is shown and in figure 31B a perspective view. In this variant an electrode carrierl50 is shown with three sides147, 148 and 149. The sides147 and48 are inclined and carry the measuring electrodes M and M . The third side is straight and carries the compensation electrode R. Not only in figure 31B but also in the plan view of figure 31A, it is clearly shown that the cross section triangle 152 at the bottom has a greater surface than the cross section triangle 153 at the top. In figure 31A is also drawn with a dotted line, around the triangular electrode carrier 150, the measuring tube154, having the shape of a rectangular, three sided parallelepiped. It will be clear that also a conically shaped or other body of revolution is very suitable for use in a level gauge according to the invention. In figure 31C such a conical level gauge is represented at least as far as the measuring tube is concerned.The electrode carrier 155 is, however, cylindrical. At the place where the compensation electrode 157 is provided, also the conical measuring tube has a straight generatrix 158. Also here again the electrode carrier can be made conical, for example such as the bodyl54, and provides thereabout a straight measuring tube, such as indicated with dotted lines 159. Figures 32X E show various possibilities to combine two different level gauges, so that they are suitable for interface measurements in a combination of a normal and a reversed two liquid layer system. In figure 32A is shown the combination of a level gauge 161 for a normal liquid system and a level gauge 162 for a reversed liquid system.Encethe measuring electrode 163 is straight, the cooperating sides 166, 167 of the measuring tube sections168, 169 are inclined and the measuring tube as a whole exhibits a convex or salient kink. Figure 328 shows a combination of a level gauge 171 for a normal liquid system and therebelow e level gauge 172 for a reversed liquid system. Thereby the measuring tube as a whole 175 exhibits a concave or re entrant kink. In figures 32A and D the kink is present in the combined measuring electrode 177 and 178 resp. In figure 32E is shown that also in such a combination the compensation electrode can have a kink, provided the opposite wall 182 of the measuring tube 185 exhibit the same inclination and kink.Of course, the wall 183 opposite the measuring electrode 186 should also have a kink. If such level gauge must bridge over great differences in height for only one liquid system, the dimensions in the transverse directions due to the inclination of the slanting sides can become unacceptably great. It is recommended to off set the exterior plate of the capacitor for example every few meters. This has been done in figures SA, B for the total measuring tube190 thus the external capacitor plate . It consist here in fact of 107 individual measuring tube sections19l,192 etc. of for instance each 1,5 m of length, in which the measurement electrode 195 itself is correspondingly divided into sub electrodes 196, 197 etc. being mutually insulated. The measuring electrodel95 has become, by this fact, an electrode with sub electrodes, in which each sub electrode takes care of a part of the scale range After passing completely a sub electrode of the electrodel95, the gauge indicates 100 thereafter the next sub electrode begins again at 0 and increases to 100 , etc.The sub electrodes are then summed numerically.Example coverage with liquid by 4 sub electrodes each of 250 iiiii length.The fifth sub electrode is covered for 50 . The indication is then 4 x 250 mm 1000 mm F sub electrode 5 125 mm eventual height is then 1000 125 1125 mm.