# High vacuum deposition processes employing a continuous pnictide delivery system.

## Abstract
A film deposition apparatus characterised in that it comprises A a reservoir containing heated pnictide B means for passing an inert gas therethrough C a high vacuum film deposition chamber and D means for supplying the said inert gas carrying the said pnictide as a vapour species after passing through the said pnictide to the said deposition chamber is disclosed. A high vacuum deposition process characterised in that it comprises passing an inert gas through heated pnictide and supplying the product gas to a vacuum chamber maintained at a pressure below 10 3 Torr 1.33 x 10 1 Pa is also disclosed. Referring to the accompanying illustrative diagram, the present apparatus may comprise reservoir 30 , means for passing inert gas therethrough 28 , deposition chamber 22 and supply means 60 . Films of pnictide, polypnictide and other pnictide compounds may be deposited for semiconductor and other applications including insulation and passivation, particularly on III V semiconductors. The present invention represents an advance over the prior art.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A film deposition apparatus characterised in that it comprises A a reservoir 30 containing heated pnictide B means .28 for passing an inert gas therethrough C a high vacuum film deposition chamber 22 and D means 60 for supplying the said inert gas carrying the said pnictide as a vapour species after passing through the said pnictide to the said deposition chamber. 2. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the said deposition chamber comprises a molecular collimater 246 . 3. An.lapparatus as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 comprising a heated pnictide cracker 132, 134 for cracking pnictide vapour species to Pnictide2 vapour species. 4. An apparatus as claimed in claim 3 wherein the said cracker is an electrically heated filament. 5. An apparatus as claimed in claim 4 wherein the said filament is heated to above 10000C. 6. A high vacuum deposition process characterised in that it comprises passing an inert gas through heated pnictide and supplying the product gas to a vacuum chamber maintained at a pressure below 10 3 Torr 1.33 x 10 1 1 Pa . 7. A process as claimed in claim 6 wherein the product gas is collimated in the chamber. 8. A process as claimed in claim 6 or claim 7 wherein the product gas is thermally cracked in the chamber. 9. A process as claimed in any of claims 6 to 8 wherein the pnictide is phosphorus, arsenic or antimony. 10. A process as claimed in any of claims 6 to 9 wherein deposition takes place in a molecular flow regime. 11. A process as claimed in claim 10 wherein the pressure is below 10 4 Torr 1.33 x 10 2 Pa .

## Description
High Vacuum Deposition processes employing a continuous Pnictide delivery system. This invention relates to high vacuum deposition processes employing a continuous pnictide delivery system more particularly, it relates to such a system, to film deposition, to sources of Pnictide4 vapour species, to the deposition of films of pnic tides, polypnictides and other pnictide compounds, particularly when the pnictide is phosphorus, to vacuum deposition and molecular beam epitaxy, to semiconductor devices, particularly III V semiconductor devices and to the insulation and passivation thereof. For further information, reference may be made to, for example, GB A 2,113,663 and to the related applications filed herewith, in particular those based on USSN 581,139, USSN 509,158, USSN 509,175,USSN 581,115, USSN 509,158, USSN 581,103, USSN 581, 105, USSN 581,102 and USSN 581,101. Pnictide4 vapour species, particularly P4, are required for use in various high vacuum film deposit ition processes, for example, processes for the deposition of films of phosphorus, polyphosphides and other phosphorus compounds for use in semiconductor devices. These films may be deposited by vacuum deposition and molecular beam epitaxy. It is highly desirable that a source of the Pnictide4 vapour species be capable of delivering very pure, accurately metered amounts of the species into these processes. It is also highly desirable to be able continuously to supply the Pnictide4 vapour species for an indefinite period of time for depositing films on large areas and for continuous processing. A continuous pnictide delivery system has been employed in chemical vapour deposition and in sputtering to deliver the Pnictide4 species. Reference may be made in this connection to the above mentioned related applications, in particular those based onUSSN 581,102 and 581,103. It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a Pnictide4, particularly a P4, delivery system for high vacuum film deposition. Another object of the present invention is to provide such a continuous source. A further object of the present invention is to provide such a source utilizing an inert carrier gas. Yet another object of the present invention is to facilitate the deposition of films of pnictides, polypnictides and other pnictide compounds, particularly when the pnictide is phosphorus, by vacuum deposition and molecular beam epitaxy. The present invention provides a film deposition apparatus characterised in that it comprises A reservoir containing heated pnictide B means for passing an inert gas therethrough C a high vacuum film deposition chamber and D means for supplying the said inert gas carrying the said pnictide as a vapour species after passing through the said pnictide to the said deposition chamber. The apparatus may comprise a deposition chamber comprising a molecular collimator. It may comprise a heated pnictide cracker, such as an electrically heated filament, for example at above 10000C, for cracking pnictide vapour species, iq particular Pnictide4, toPnictide2 species. The present invention also provides a high vacuum deposition process characterised in that it comprises passing an inert gas through heated pnictide and supplying the product gas to a vacuum chamber maintained at a pressure below 10 3 Torr 1.33 x 10 Pa . The product gas may be collimated and or thermally cracked in the chamber. Deposition may take place in a molecular flow regime. Preferably, the pressure is below 10 4 Torr 1.33 x 10 2 Pa . The pnictide may be phosphorus, arsenic or antimony. For a fuller understanding of the nature and objects of the present invention reference may also be made to the accompanying drawings wherein Figure 1 illustrates a Pnictide4 source for film deposition in a vacuum apparatus Figure 2 illustrates a vacuum deposition apparatus according to the present invention and Figure 3 illustrates a molecular beam deposition apparatus according to the present invention. The same reference numbers refer to the same elements throughout the several views of the drawings. In general terms, in a continuous pnictide delivery system according to the present invention as illustrated in accompanying Figure 1, an inert carrier gas, such as argon, passes down a length of tubing and then upwardly through a sintered glass frit before passing through a vertical column of pnictide, such as liquid white phosphorus or granular arsenic or antimony. The pnictideenriched carrier gas then exits through the top of the column an d may be diluted by a stream of pure carrier gas. The mixture of the Pnictide4 vapour species and the carrier gas is then fed into a high vacuum chamber, after passing through a metering valve.The temperature of the bubbler is maintained constant by a circulating bath of oil heated to between the melting and boiling points of 440C and 28O0C, respectively, for phosphorus or to a temperature sufficiently high to increase the sublimation of arsenic or antimony. The temperature of the downstream transfer lines is maintained by the use of heating tapes. The pressure in the feed system is controlled by a downstream metering valve. Thus, the concentration of Pnictide4 species fed into a system may be controlled by regulating the flow of the carrier gas, the temperature of the pnictidein the reservoir and the pressure maintained in the feed system. In a vacuum evaporation system according to the present invention, as illustrated in accompanying Figure 2, the pnictide source 20 is connected by tube 66 to a nozzle 68 within vacuum chamber 120. The Pnictide4 species carried by the inert gas exits nozzle 68 through slots 70 cut therein, is cracked at cracker 132 and 134 and then deposited on substrate 128. A molecular beam system according to the present invention, as illustrated in accompanying Figure 3, places the nozzle 68 at the inlet port 268 substituting it for a Knudsen cell furnace. The Pnictide4 molecules are collimated by baffle 246 cracked to Pnictide2 at filament 248 and deposited on the substrates 264. The high vacuum systems pressure below 10 3 Torr 1.33 x 1 Pa preferably below 10 4 Torr 1.33 x 10 2 Pa in the molecular flow regime disclosed herein may be used to deposit passivating, insulating and surface recombination velocity reducing layers of a new form of amorphous phosphorus having a layer like, puckered sheet like local order structure on III V semiconductors and to deposit similar layers of other pnictide compounds or elements. In more detail now, referring to accompanying Figure 1, a continuous pnictide delivery system according to the present invention is generally indicated at 20. It is connected to supply Pnictide4 species carried by an inert carrier gas to chemical vapour deposition apparatus 22 through metering valve 24. The pnictide source according to the present invention is generally indicated at 26. It comprises a vertical carrier gas feed tube 28 and vertical pnictide containing reservoir 30. A coarse porous glass fruit disc 32 is located at the bottom of the reservoir 30 to disperse the carrier gas stream which passes through the pnictide in the reservoir 30. Any bubbles forming above the top surface 34 of, for example, liquid phosphorus, if that is used, are collected and break at the enlarged portion 36 of the reservoir 30. The entire reservoir 30 and carrier gas feed tube 28 are enclosed in jacket 38. Oil from a constant temperature bath is constantly circulated, entering at opening 40 and exiting at opening 42. The pnictide source 26 may be conveniently attached to the system 20 via connectors 44 and 46. The pnictide source 26 may be disconnected from the oil bath by disconnecting apprtpriate connectors at 40 and 42. The entire pnictide source 26 and apparatus 20 may be disconnected by connecting not shown at 49, 51 and 25 and may be carried into a glove box purged with an inert gas, such as nitrogen, filled with pnictide and removed from the glove box with valves 48, 50 and 24 closed.Inert carrier gas, e.g. argon, is supplied through a shutoff valve 48 to vertical tube 28. It passes through the pnictide contained in the reservoir. Additional argon diluent gas is supplied through a shutoff valve 50 mixes With the argon carried Pnictide4 species which is then supplied through the metering valve 24 to vacuum pnictide chamber 22 via tube 66 and nozzle 68. The pnictide is deposited on substrate 74. By pass valve 52 is utilized initially to purge the system and to equalize the pressure on both sides of the reservoir 30 before start up of the carrier gas flow through the reservoir 30. The pressure gauge 54 monitors the pressure of the carrier gas and pnictide species being supplied to the metering valve 24. The temperature of the reservoir 30 is maintained constant by the circulating oil,and, for example, is maintained at a temperature above the melting point of white phosphorus, 440C, and below its boiling point, 2800C. Typical flow rates through the metering valve 24 are from 10 to 200 millilitres per minute. Typical pressures of, for example, phosphorus P4 and carrier gas supplied, range from 0.1 atmospheres 1.01 x 104 Pa to 25 pounds per square inch 1.72 x 105 Pa . The downstream pressures in line 60 range from 0.1 to 1.0 atmospheres from 1.01 x 104 to 1.01 x 105 Pa . From 6 to 10 millilitres of liquid pnictide may be contained in the reservoir 30 which has a capacity of, say, 30 millilitres. The pnictide source 26 may be made of glass phosphorus only or stainless steel. The carrier gas supply tubing 56, diluent supply tubing 58 and downstream tubing 60 may be stainless steel. Thin wall tube 28 may have an outside diameter of 0.4 centimetres. The reservoir, which is also thinwalled, may have an outside diameter of 1.5 centimetres.The entire bubbler apparatus, from the bottom 62,of jacket 38 to the top 64 thereof, is 35 centimetres, for example.The englarged portion 36 of the reservoir 30 may have an outside diameter of 2.5 centimetres. All of the tubing that could come in contact with the Pnictide4 vapour, that is tubing 56, 58 and 60, are preferably surrounded by heating tape not shown and maintained at a temperature of about 20C above that of the reservoir operating temperature to prevent the deposition of pnictide on the surface of the tubing. Referring to accompanying Figure 2, the pnictide bubbler 20 is employed in a high vacuum deposition system comprising, for example, a modified COOK Model CVE301, high vacuum evaporator 120, which may be diffusion pumped through outlet 122 to a base pressure of less than 10 6 Torr 1.33 x 10 4 Pa . Substrates 128 may be located approximately 6 inches 15 cms above source 126 and shielded by a movable shutter 129. A quartz radiant heater 130 is used to control the substrate temperature. Deposi tions have been made from 10 3 Torr 1.33 x 10 1Pa down. Two high temperature tungsten crackers are used to convert Pnictide4 species to Pnictide2 species. One is a coil filament 132 directly above the exit cuts 70 in the nozzle 68. The other is a straight wire 134 located 1 inch 2.54 cms below the substrates in this illustration. Both wires are resistively heated to above 10000C. P4 species are supplied by the pnictide delivery system 20 through delivery pipe 66 and thence nozzle 68. A molecular beam deposition apparatus utilizing the pnictide bubbler source is illustrated in accompanyingFigure 3. It comprises a vacuum chamber 240, pumped down through vacuum pump port 266 to below 10 7 to 10 8 Torr 1.33 x 10 5 1 6 Pa . Then the apparatus is normally run at 10 5 to 10 6 Torr 1.33 x 10 3 10 4 Pa . The pnictide delivery system nozzle 68 is substituted for the usual oven source connected to the inlet port 268.Shutter 258 controls the supply of the Pnictide4 species to a water cooled baffle 246. The collimated P4 species exits the water cooled baffle and is cracked at heated filament 248, which is heated to above 10000C, to Pnictide2 species which are deposited on substrates 264 mounted on a glass plate 262, mounted to substrate holder 244 on support rod 260. It is surprising that the pnictide bubbler source may be utilized as a controlled leak to supply the pnictide species to high vacuum systems that is, vacuum systems operating in the molecular flow regime below 10 4 Torr 1.33 x 10 2 Pa . For further details of the thermal cracker and high vacuum systems and also the pnictide delivery system referred to herein, reference may be made to the abovementioned related applications, in particular those based on USSN 581,139 and USSN 581,102. Pnictides which may be deposited in accordance with the present invention include phosphorus, arsenic, antimony, bismuth and compounds thereof. Phosphorus deposited by vacuum evaporation and molecular beam deposition has been found to form films of a new form of phosphorus in which the molecules are arranged in a layerlike local order. Such phosphorus films are particularly useful as insulating and passivating layers on III V semiconductor devices.