# Method for controlling fluidized catalytic cracker regenerator temperature and velocity with carbon dioxide.

## Abstract
A process is set forth for the operation and control of a fluidized catalytic cracking unit wherein the regenerator is fed witz independently controlled oxygen rich gas and car bon dioxide rich gas to maintain desired temperatures, ve locities, and catalyst to oil C O ratio within the constraints of the system.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. In a process for operating a single stage regenerator of a fluidized catalytic cracking process wherein the regenerator is operated at 1250 F 1600 F with a gas mixture of an oxygen containing gas and a carbon dioxide containing gas, the improvement comprising a independently controlling the input of oxygen containing gas to the regenerator to achieve a.carbon on regenerated catalyst CRC level of less than 0.5 wt , such that oxygen in the flue gas does not exceed 3 vol. , and b independently controlling the input of carbon dioxide containing fluidization gas to the regenerator to achieve a regenerator catalyst temperature that results in heat balancing the fluidized catalytic cracking unit at the desired catalyst to oil ratio such as not to exceed the maxlmum temperature of the regenerator, the velocity constraints of the regenerator, or an oxygen range of 10 40 by volume in the fluidizing gas mixture. 2. The process of Clatm 1 wherein the carbon dioxide containing fluidization gas rate is controlled with respect to changes in feed coke yield according to the relationship Y K1 C C0 Y0 Wherein V the new CO2 flow tn lb C02 Bbl Fd V0 the initial CO2 flow in lb C02 Bbl Fd CO initial feed coke yield, ib coke Bbl fdC new feed coke yield, lb coke Bbl Fd kl 40 50 at complete combustion CO CO2 O , lb coke Bbl fd 30 50 at less than complete combustion CO CO2 O , lb coke Bbl fd 3. The process of Claim 1 wherein the carbon dioxide containing gas is controlled in the range of greater than 60 carbon dioxide by volume in the fluidizing gas mixture. 4. The process of Claim 1 wherein the oxygen containing gas ts commercially pure oxygen. 5. The process of Claim 1 wherein the carbon dioxide containing gas is commercially pure carbon dioxide. 6. The process of Clalm l wherein the carbon dioxide containing gas is a recycle stream from the flue gas of the regenerator. 7. The process of Claim 1 wherein the oxygen content of the fluidizing gas mixture is in the range of 21 30 vol.X. 8. The process of Claim 1 wherein the regenerator Is operated to achieve a carbon on regenerated catalyst CRC of 0.25 or less. 9. The process of Claim 1 wherein the regenerator is operated to achieve a catalyst temperature in the range of 1250 1400 F. lO. The process of Claim 1 wherein a CO2 quench stream is introduced into the dilute phase of the fluidized regenerator to reduce the conversion of CO to CO2. 11. The process of Claim 10 wherein the CO2 quench gas rate to the regenerator dilute phase is controlled to maintain a flue gas temperature centering the catalyst separation cyclones between 1000 1 400µF . 12. The process In Claim 10 wherein the C02 quench gas rate to the regenerator dilute phase is controlled to maintain a flue gas temperature entering the catalyst separatlon cyclones between 1050 1150 F. 13. The process in Claim 10 wherein the C02 quench gas rate to the regenerator is 15 35 wt of the fluidization. 14. The process in Claim 10 wherein the C02 quench gas rate to the regenerator is 20 30 wt of the fluidization gas.

## Description
METHOD FOR CONTROLLING FLUIDIZED CATALYTIC CRACKER REGENERATOR TEMPERATURE AND VELOCITY WITH CARBON DIOXIDE TECHNICAL FIELD The present invention is directed to the field of fluidized catalytic cracking of hydrocarbon feed stocks and the attendant regeneration of the cracktng catalyst in a fluidized regenerator. The invention is particularly related to the control of regenerator temperatures and regenerator fluidizing gas velocities by the independent control of the quantity of combustion and diluent gas admitted to the regenerator.More particularly, the invention is related to the utilization of a gas mixture of an oxygen containing gas and a carbon dloxtde contatntng gas as the combustion and diluent gases in such regenerators. BACKGROUND OF THE PRIOR ART The refining industry is developing a surplus of petroleum residuum due to substitution of coal and gas for resid fuel tn power generation, and the increasing fraction of residuum tn projected petroleum supplies.More refining capacity to convert the over supply of resid to useable products will be required. One process that can be used for resold conversion is the fluid catalytic cracking process FCC . In the FCC process, heavy oil and catalyst are contacted in the reactor producing distillate products and depositing coke on the catalyst. The coked catalyst is separated from the reaction products, and flows to the regenerator where the coke is combusted with oxygen to regenerate the catalyst. The regenerated catalyst flows back to the reactor in a continuous manner. The FCC reactor and regenerator operate in heat balance with the reactor temperature set to achieve the desired product slate. The heat required for vaporization and endothermic crackling of the feed to achieve this temperature is provided by manipulating the rate of hot regenerated catalyst circulated from the regenerator to the reactor.The cooled, coked catalyst is circulated back to the regenerator from the reactor where air is added to provide oxygen for combusting the coke to CO, C02 and H20 resulttng in an acceptable level of coke on regenerated catalyst CRC . The combustion of coke provides the necessary heat for vaporization and endothermic cracking of the feed and sensible heat loss to the flue gas and atmosphere. The regeneration temperature and catalyst circulation rate are in equilibrium when heat generation balances heat requirements. Therefore, the catalyst to oil ratio C O , which has a strong effect on conversion to desired products and coke yteld, is a dependent variable and cannot be controlled tndependently to any significant degree. With high activity zeolite catalysts a typical gas oil FCC untt ylelds 4 6 wt coke at optimal reactor temperature and complete catalyst regeneration low CRC with ClO ratios from 5 8 lb.catalyst per lb. of feed. Over this range of ClO ratio, conversion can vary as much as 10 percentage points. Residuum differs from gas oil in several ways that significantly affect FCC operation. The primary effect is the coke formtng tendency of residuum as measured by Conradson carbon residue. This number is typically 1 3 for gas oil and 10 20 for residuum. This increased coking tendency increases the heat generation from coke combustion, but doesn t significantly change the heat requirement of the unit it also requires more oxygen to regenerate the catalyst to the desired CRC level. This oxygen is typically supplied by compressing alr, and the maximum air rate is limited by the gas velocity at which excesstve catalyst carry over and unstable flutdization in the regenerator occur.At this point, coke yield must be reduced by reductng feed coking tendency or feed rate. A second limit on coke combustion capacity is maximum temperature as limited by metallurgy of the regenerator vessel, cyclones, and flue gas system and loss of catalyst activity due to intering above 1400 F in the presence of steam from combustion. Since the ratio of heat generated to heat required increases with coke yield, the regenerator temperature will increase and the catalyst circulation rate will decrease until equilibrium is reached at the destred reactor temperature. When the maximum regenerator temperature is reached, coke burning requirements must again be decreased. Residuum also contalns more metals N1 V than gas oil, and metal concentration on catalyst has a significant impact on coke yield.However, metals concentration can be controlled by increasing catalyst makeup rate and technology is available to passtvate Ni, significantly reducing tts tendency to tncrease coke yield. Numerous methods have been employed to accurately control the regeneration of catalyst which is continuously being recycled to and from a fluidized catalytic cracking reactor wherein hydrocarbon feedstocks are initially processed into more utilizable products. The adjustment of air flow, the utilization of heat exchange equipment, the inclusion of initiators or catalysts for the regeneration and the adjustment of catalyst beds both tn the cracktng reactor and the regenerator have all been suggested as means or methods for the adequate control of the cracking and regeneration reactions. In theory increased coke burning capacity and decreased oxygen requirements can be achieved by only partially combusttng carbon to CO instead of C02. In the catalyst dense bed of the FCC regenerator, carbon is combusted to CO and C02 and the heat of combustion is imparted to the catalyst. The rate of carbon combustion increases rapidly with excess oxygen and temperature. However, in the dilute phase above the catalyst dense bed, the homogeneous combustion of CO to C02 also increases rapidly with excess 2 and temperature. This reaction releases nearly three times as much heat as the combustion of carbon toCO, but there is little catalyst to absorb it resulting in very high gas temperatures.This phenomenon is called afterburning and can cause severe thermal damage to the regenerator cyclones and flue gas system. Practice has shown that significant CO generation is not achieved at the temperature and excess oxygen levels required to achieve complete catalyst regeneration. It is now common practice to achieve complete regeneration of catalyst by adding CO combustion promoters to the FCC catalyst tnventory. These promoters combust CO to C02 in the dense catalyst bed where the heat of reaction ts imparted to the catalyst. NoCO is left to Nafterburn , and therefore the excess oxygen and regenerator temperature can be Increased to the maximum limits resulting in complete catalyst regeneration.At low CRC, conversion is Increased and coke yield is significantly reduced, moderating the regenerator temperature increase due to complete combustion to CO2. But at constant reaction temperature, C O ratio is also reduced thereby offsetting some of the benefits of complete catalyst regeneratton.Regenerators operating in the complete combustion mode with air are often at coke burning limits due to high gas velocities. Oxygen enrichment can be employed in this situation to increase O2 content of the combustton air. Since this effectively reduces the N2 content, oxygen availability is increased without increasing gas velocity. However, the regenerator temperature will rise to a new equilibrium level at a lower catalyst otl ratio stnce the ratio of combustion heat generated to flue gas sensible heat has increased.Oxygen enrichment therefore, is constrained by the maximum metallurgical and catalyst temperature in the regenerator and can lead to reduced conversion. With 02 enrichment, maximum regenerator temperature is the factor limiting residuum feed to the FCC. Steam coils and catalyst coolers have been employed to remove heat from the regenerator and offset incremental heat generated by the residuum s increased coke yield. Steam coils are considered a fixed heat removal system stnce they cannot be turned on and off without risk of thermal damage. Therefore, they are seldom employed alone since they would reduce flexibility to run low coke yielding feeds. Furthermore, steam coils reduce the maximum gas rate at design velocity limits, and thus reduce oxygen availability when regenerating with air. Catalysts coolers are a variable heat removal system and are most often used in conjunction with steam coils. Catalyst coolers are very effective at removing heat, but experience has shown that controlling catalyst circulation rate, and therefore heat removal, is difficult.Operating failures associated with the circulation of high velocity solids through tubes are common, resulting tn poor reliability. With steam coils and catalyst coolers, regenerator temperature can be controlled and therefore ClO ratio can be held at the desired level without loss of conversion. Other gas mixtures have been contemplated for the fluidization and combustion gas fed to the regenerator of a fluidized catalytic cracking reactor. Various combinations of oxygen and inert diluent gases, such as carbon dioxide, have been suggested by the prior art. However, these combinations have not been taught to be useful for the control of temperature and combustion in the regeneration of catalyst from the cracking of heavy hydrocarbons and reslduums. U.S. Patent 4,388,218 discloses a method for regenerating catalyst in the fluid catalytic cracking process in two, successive stages. The patent suggests that different combinations of 02, H20, and C02 can be used in each zone to make the net heat of reaction of various carbon gasification and combustlon reactions equal to the heat required to heat balance the FCC untt. This method of control implies that the rate of reaction is known and the 02, CO2 and H20 ratio can be adjusted in a dynamic fashion to achieve a steady state heat balance. European Patent Application 0072653 discloses nearly the same process as mentioned in Patent 4,388,218. However, it is recognized that the gastfication of carbon with steam destroys catalyst activity at typical FCC regenerator conditions. Further the rate of gasiftcation of carbon with C02 is very slow at typical conditions and requtres the addition of a catalyst as disclosed in the patent application. Control of the heat balance is not addressed. U.S. Patent 4,304,659 discloses a method for controlling regenerator temperatures in a fluidized catalytic cracking process by the adjustment of catalyst bed height both in the cracking reactor and in the regenerator. The patent also suggests controlling the rate of oxygen introduction into the regenerator in order to provide substantially complete combustion of the coke on the catalyst as well as minimizing the carbon monoxide content of the flue gas. The regeneration gas can be air or an oxygen containing gas wlth inverts, such as carbon dioxide. The prior art has suggested vartous means and methods for controlling the regeneration of fluidized cracking catalyst, using mixtures of 02 C02 in multi stage regenerators or additional heat removal systems, but none of the prior art has suggested a solution to both problems of temperature and fluidizing gas velocity limitations in a stngle stage regenerator wtthout additional heat removal systems using 02 C02 with FCC feed containing heavy hydrocarbons and restduums having high coke yield. This invention controls the regenerator temperature and alters gas velocity by the rate of addition of a carbon dioxide contalning gas, resulting in the extra degree of freedom to optimize catalyst to oil C O ratio, at the desired reactor temperature. The invention also achieves the control of the coke on regenerated catalyst CRC level by its tndependently controlled flow of oxygen containlng gas. The invention allows the operation of a regenerator to enjoy an IncreasedCO C02 ratio in the combustion flue gas at low CRC to further extend the residuum feed capacity of FCC units within their existing velocity and temperature constratnts by controlling the dllute phase temperature with a C02 quench flow. BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The present invention comprlses a method for operating a fluidized catalytic crackling reactor and the catalyst regenerator assoclated with said reactor to control temperatures and fluidizing gas velocities in the regenerator in relationship to varying coke yields of the hydrocarbon feed to the fluidized catalytic crackling reactor.The method is directed to the operation of the regenerator with a fluidizing gas mixture of a carbon dioxide containing gas and an oxygen contafning gas which is introduced into the regenerator from an independently controlled source of carbon dioxide and an independently controlled source of oxygen, partlcularly a commercially pure oxygen. The oxygen containlng gas input is controlled to achieve a CRC of less than 0.5 wt , and preferably less than 0.25 wt , such that oxygen in the flue gas does not exceed 3 vol.X. The oxygen concentration of the fluidizing gas mixture should be kept tn the range of 10 40X by volume. The amount of carbon dioxide flow to the regenerator is controlled such that combustion of coke from the catalyst results in regenerated catalyst and flue gas temperatures that are within the regenerator velocity and temperature constraints, and result tn heat balancing theFCC unit at the catalyst to oil ratio that achieves the desired conversion without major net evolution of heat.Varying the carbon dioxide rate within the constraints of the process temperature, velocity, and oxygen concentration in fluidizatlon combustion gas enables the FCC unit to process feeds with a much broader range of inherent coklng tendency whlle maintaining the deslred level of conversion, than is posslble witch FCC operation as typically practiced. Changes in C02 fluidifltion flow rate required to offset changes in inherent feed coking tendency while maintaining desired process conditions are defined by the relationship Y K1 C C0 Y0 where Y New C02 flow, lb CO2 Bbl feed Y0 Current CO2 flow, lb CO2 Bbl feed C New feed coke yield, lb coke Bbl feed Co Current feed coke yield, lb coke Bbl feed Ko Constant, lb C02 lb CokeThe constant, K1, is generally in the range of 40 50 at complete combustion and 30 50 at partial combustion. Generally, the carbon dioxide content of the fluidizing gas mixture is in the range of 60X by volume or greater. The regenerator ls preferably operated with 21 30 by volume oxygen in the fluidizing gas mixture. The temperature range of the regenerator is 1250 1600 F, preferably 1250 1400 F. The present invention can also comprise the addltion of quench gas, preferably from the same source as the CO2 rich fluidization gas at 100 200 F, to the regenerator dilute phase flue gas. The quench rate is controlled to maintain the flue gas temperature entering the regenerator cyclones at 1000 1400 F and preferably 1050 1150 F without exceeding the flue gas velocity constraints. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS FIG 1 is a double graph of the effect of regeneration gas on FCC regenerator flue gas composition and catalyst regeneration. FIG 2 is a graph of the effect of regeneratlon gas on fresh FCC feed conversion versus the carbon content of the catalyst. FIG 3 is a graph of FCC yields wlth regeneration by alr and 02 CO2. FIG 4 is a graph of FCC heat balanced CO2 recycle rate at constant conversion FIG 5 is a flowscheme of the process of the present invention. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION In accordance with the present invention, a fluidized catalytic cracking unit is run in a continuous manner wherein catalyst which experiences coking during its presence in the cracking reactor is continually removed to a regenerator for the combustion and removal of coke on the catalyst. This regeneration reactivates the catalyst and increases the temperature of the reactlvated catalyst which then provides the heat required for vaporization and endothermic cracking of the hydrocarbon feed in the crackling reactor. The coked catalyst in the regenerator is regenerated with an oxygen contalning gas mixture which comprises, preferably, commercially pure oxygen blended with carbon dioxide. Presently, there are two constraints on regenerators which have typically prevented an increased charge rate of hydrocarbon feedstock to the fluidized catalytic crackling reactor or the use of feedstocks with high coking tendencies. The constraints are excessive regenerator temperature and excessive regenerator gas velocities. High temperatures are the result of the high heat release involved in combusting large quantities of coke from the catalyst to be regenerated and the afterburning of carbon monoxide to carbon dioxide tn the regenerator overhead. The large or increased quantity of coke is the result of the cracking of heater hydrocarbon feedstocks which have higher residue carbon levels Conradson carbon , such as is found in residuums. The heat release from combusting this additional charge of carbon on the coked catalyst is greater than the heat requirement necessary for heat balance in the fluidized catalytic cracking reactor, thereby reducing the catalyst to oil C O ratio and thus reducing hydrocarbon conversion.Therefore the dissipation of this heat would be beneficial. The other constraint involves high regenerator gas velocities which arise from high combustion gas rates and the requirement to inject additional quantities of oxygen containing combustion gas into the regenerator in order to burn the increased increment of coke which is formed on the catalyst durtng the cracking of the heavy hydrocarbon feedstocks having the htgh residue carbon contents. Fluidized catalytic cracker regenerators are operated near the limitations of their temperature and velocity capabilities because of the practice of operating in the hot mode wherein carbon monoxide is completely combusted in the regenerator to carbon dioxide to achieve complete catalyst regeneration low CRC .This evolves additional heat and requires additional quantities of oxygen, which contributes to higher temperatures, increased gas velocities, reduced C O ratio and therefore reduced conversion. Operation of the FCC regenerator with independently controlled O2 rich and inert preferably CO2 rich gas streams is illustrated in the following four examples. The inert gas could be any inert gas having a molar heat capacity greater than nitrogen, which is the inert gas in standard air regeneration. Carbon dioxide is the preferred inert gas since it has a significantly higher molar heat capacity than N2 and, as a prlmary combustton product, can be most economically supplied from the recycle of the regenerator flue gas or at least partially supplied by the recycle of regenerator flue gas and a high purity source of carbon dioxide, or completely supplied from a high purity source of carbon dioxide. The preferred composition of the regenerating gas which fluidizes the regenerator bed and combusts the carbon on the regenerating catalyst would comprise a mixture of oxygen and carbon dioxide wherein the oxygen concentration would range up to 40 , preferably 21 30 by volume. The upper limitation on the oxygen concentration is set by the metallurgical requirements tn the presence of 2 at high temperatures of the regenerator and fluidization gas distributor as well as catalyst surface temperatures and the lower limit is set by coke combustion rate. The control capabilities which are achieved by the use of a combination of oxygen and carbon dioxide as the fluidizing gas mtxture allow for the processing of additional quantities of hydrocarbon in the fluidized catalytic cracking reactor, or alternately, allow for the processing of hydrocarbon feedstocks having higher Conradson carbon levels while maintaining optimal reaction conditions. The basis for the following examples and the comparison of N2 and CO2 is shown in Tables l and 2. TABLE l FCC Base Conditions Total FCC Feed, BPD 55,000 API 21 Catalyst Circ. Rate, M lb mtn 87.0 Catalyst 011 Ratio, lb lb 7.0 Temperatures, F Reactor 961 Regenerator Dense 1311 Regenerator Dtiute 1321 Combustion Gas 100 Feed Preheat 532 Basis for Examples and Figure 4 TABLE 2 Comparison of N2 and CO2 Heat Capacities CO2 Temperature l3lO0F 1310 F Molar Heat Capacity, Btu 1b Mole F 7.5 12.8Mass Heat Capacity, Btu lb eF 0.27 0.29 Example 1 Substituting O2 CO2 For Air at Constant Coke Yield The result of substituting 02 CO2 Case B for alr Case A in an FCC RTI ID 10.13 untt operating in heat balance at the base conditions shown in Table 1 is illustrated in Example l and Table 3. Due to the increased molar heat capactty of CO2 relative to N2 seeTable 2 , the same reactor and regenerator temperatures and catalyst to oil ratio can be maintained at significantly lower regenerator gas velocities. The concentration of 2 in the combustion gas is increased from 21 to the preferred maximum of 30 volume percent as the standard cubic feet per barrel of combustion gas are reduced from 2950 to 2115.Note that the mass flow rate of O2 plus CO2 does not change significantly since the mass heat capacities of N2 and CO2 are nearly equivalent at the regenerator temperature of 13110F. The actual cubic feet of flue gas per barrel of feed is reduced from 5165 to 3750, reducing flue gas velocity 28X. This eliminates flue gas velocity problems and reduces catalyst carryover to the cyclones. Case B is represented tn Figure 4 as point B. The advantages of complete combustion can be achleved in an FCC unit that is limited by O2 availability due to velocity constraints without Increasing regenerator temperature as would happen with 02 enrichment of air by independently controlling O2 and the preferred diluent gas CO2. TABLE 3 Comparison of Air and CO2 Regeneration in Example l CASE A B Flue Gas Composition CO CO Ratio, v v O 0 02, 0.5 0.5 Coke Yield, wt feed 5.6 5.6 Combustion Gas Air 1 02 C0i2 SCF Bbl Fd 2950 2115 02, vX 21 30 lb N2 Bbl Fd 170 lb CO2 Bbl Fd 170 lb O27Bbl Fd 55 55 lb 2 Consumed Bbl Fd 53.6 53.6 Flue Gas Rate, ACF Bbl 5165 3750 Regenerator Flue Gas Velocity, Relative 1.0 0.7 to Case A Coke on Regenerated Catalyst, CRC .25 .25 1 Air case based on commercial operation. 2 02 C02 based on heat balance calculations shown in graphical form in Figure 4. EXAMPLE 2 Increased Coke Burning Capacity As shown in Example 1, substitution of independently controlled O2 and C02 streams for alr in the FCC regenerator significantly reduces gas velocities and increases 2 concentration without increasing regenerator temperature. Therefore, coke burning capacity can be Increased up to the gas velocity constraints by increasing C02 rate and O2 rate, Independently, thus reducing O2 concentration without changing regenerator temperature. This is illustrated in present Example 2 illustrated in Table 4. Case B at 5.6 wtX coke yield is from Example 1. In Case C, theCO2 rate is increased to achieve the flue gas velocities of the base air Case A tn Example 1. At an O2 concentration of 24 volume , the heat balanced coke yield is increased from 5.6 to 6.2 wtX at the same reactor and regenerator conditions as tn Case A.Case D shows the maximum heat balanced coke yield of 6.7 wt when the 2 concentration can be reduced to the preferred minimum of 21 volume percent without reaching a velocity constraint. All cases would be at complete carbon combustion of CO2 and the CRC would not be changed. The range of coke burning capacity tn Example 2 is represented tn Figure 4 by points B, C, and D on the CO C02 O line. Atr operation at constant conditlons is represented by the single point tn Case A, since O2 N2 ratio of atr is constant. When air regeneration is constrained, regenerating wlth independently controlled O2 rich and C02 rich gas streams can result in a 10 increase in coke burning capacity at constant conditions shown inTable I. TABLE 4 Effect of Increase in CO2 on Regeneration in Example 2CASE B C O Flue Gas Composition CO CO2 mole mole 0 0 0 02, vX 0.5 0.5 0.5Coke Yield, wtX Feed 5.6 6.2 6.7Combustion Gas O2 CO2 O2 CO2 O2 CO2 SCF Bbl Fd 2115 2950 3655 02, vX 30 24 21 lb C0 Bbl Fd 170 260 335 lb O2 Bb1 Fd 55 60 65Flue Gas Rate, ACF Bbl Fd 3,750 5,200 6,420Regenerator Gas Vel ocity, Relative 0.7 1.0 1.2 to Case ACoke on Regenerated Catalyst .25 .25 .25Control Relationship lb O2 1b Coke 3.0 3.0 3.0 alb C02 lb O2 15 15 15 kl, lb C02 l Coke 45 45 45 When using carbon dioxide as the diluent gas in a regeneration gas mixture with oxygen, the temperature of the regenerator and, therefore, the catalyst will be controlled via two mechanisms. First, the higher molar heat capacity of carbon dioxide relative to nitrogen, which is the diluent gas in alr fed regenerators and oxygen enriched alr fed regenerators, will result in a 55X increase in the sensible heat removed from the regenerator per mole of flue gases emanattng from the regenerator. Second, partial combustion of carbon to CO instead of C02 reduces heat generatlon by 60X for each mole of CO generated. In current practice, a high CO CO2 ratio in the flue gas is not achievable at complete catalyst regeneration with air because CO combusts to CO2 in a homogeneous gas phase reaction at the conditions required to achieve complete carbon burn. Sporting Data For The Present Invention In accordance with the present invention, an FCC pilot plant with a riser reactor, catalyst regenerator, and continuous catalyst circulation was run in a normal manner except that the fluidization gas used to regenerate the catalyst was altered between air and varying mixtures of O2 CO2. A series of runs were made to compare O2 CO2 regeneration to atypical air regeneration. The feed and catalyst used are defined in Table 5. TABLE 5 Pilot Plant Feed and Catalyst Midcontinent Heavy Gas 011 Commercial Equilibrium Feedstock Properties Catalyst PropertiesGravity, API 23.9 Chemical Sp. Gravity, om 60 F 0.9105 Al2O3 W 33.0Aniline Pt., F 198 Fe W 0.35 N5 ppm 156ASTM Distn.D 1160 eF V ppm 368IBP 394 5 658 Physical 10 702 Particle Size 3 om 1000 20 754 0 20 0 30 793 0 40 1 40 821 0 80 60 50 845 0 105 91 60 869 0 149 99 70 894 APS p 74 80 930 90 974 ABD gm cc 0.84 95 1003 SA m2 gm 71 98 1025 H20 PV cc gm 0.20K Factor 11.91 Mtcro activ1ty VX Conv. 71.0Nitrogen, W 0.078 CO Promotion Number 8 Relative range 0 55 Sulfur, W 0.59Conradson Carbon, 0.23 metals ppm Ni 0.3 V 0.8 Fe 2 Cu 0.3 At constant reactor temperature, catalyst to oil ratio, and regenerator temperature, the catalyst regeneration level CRC was changed by varying the oxygen supply.A comparison of the data between O2 CO2 mixtures and air showed that the relationship between conversion and CRC was the same Figure 2 . Further, the product distribution as a function of conversion was unchanged Figure 3 . This demonstrated that FCC catalyst can be regenerated in varying O2 CO2 mixtures without loss of activity or selectivity relative to air. However there was a significant effect on net flue gas composition between the runs with O2 CO2 and those with air. Since the CRC level was changed by varying 02 supply, the extent of carbon combustion to CO and C02 also changed. The flue gas CO 02 volume ratio varied withCRC as shown in Figure 1. The difference in the CO O2 ratio between O2 CO2 mixtures and air is significant in that it relates to the afterburning problem in commercial FCC operatlon. Complete catalyst regeneration with air and significant partial combustion have not been simultaneously achievable due to afterburnlng.As can be seen in Flgure 1, there is a breakpoint at which CRC level increases rapidly with little change in net CO O2 ratio. This breakpoint occurs at a significantly higher net CO O2 ratio with O2 CO2 than with air. It is taught in the prior art that CO2 can react endothermically with carbon in the following manner 1 C CO2 2CO dH 41.2 kcal mole CIf this reaction is coupled with the exothermic combustion reactions 2 C 1 2 02 CO aH 26.5 kcal mole C 3 C 02 CO2 aH 94.2 kcal mole C 4 CO 1 2 O2 CO2 H 67.7 kcal mole CO The net heat released per pound of carbon reacted will be significantly reduced.The equilibrium CO C02 ratio and heat release for reactions 1 4 above are TEMP, F 1200 1400 PRESS, PSIG 10 10 COMBUSTION GAS COMP 02, vol. 21 21 CO2, vol. 79 79 EQUILIBRIUM CO C02 PRODUCT 0.5 2.8 HEAT OF REACTION, MMBTU Mole C 3.1 2.3 EXOTHERMIC ENDOTHERMICIf the rate of equation 1 ts fast enough to reach equilibrium, it should have a significant effect on the reaction products and heat release at 1400 F, but very little effect at 1200 F. To determine if reaction t plays any role in the observed differences between air and O2 C O2 regeneration, two experlments were carried out.The continuous FCC plot plant described was operated using pure CO2 regeneration gas and equilibrium catalyst at constant regenerator temperature. The catalyst was clean burned to a very low CRC level, at which time all oxygen was removed from the combustion gas and replaced by an equal volume of CO2. The flue gas composition was monitored for CO and the amount of carbon and C02 reacted was calculated from a mass and elemental oxygen material balance.A second run was carrted out at the same nominal conditions ustng equilibrium catalyst impregnated wtth 1 wtX magnestum and calcium, both known catalyzers of reactton l . The process conditions and results are shown in Table SA. In Run 836 at 1395 F, the rate of reaction 1 was negligible with standard equilibrium FCC catalyst described in Table 5. In run 846 at 14250F wlth calcium and magnesium added to the catalyst, some CO was produced tn the absence of oxygen. Since very little carbon was combusted, the regenerated catalyst coke content CRC rose during the run. This non steady state operation accounts for the differences between the products seen and what would be predicated by equation l stoichiometry. However the rate of reaction l was still insignificant. It is therefore concluded that reaction 1 plays no significant role in the regeneration of FCC catalyst below 1400µF. This conclusionIs supported by data presented in European Patent Application 0072653 as previously cited where significant rates of reaction 1 required special catalysts and temperatures of 1400 1600 F. TABLE 5A EVALUATION OF THE GASIFICATION OF CARBON WITH C02 IN THE FCC REGENERATOR 1 C CO2 2CORUN 836 846CATALYST EQUIL EQUIL 1 Mg CaREGENERATED CATALYST TEMP, F 1395 1425FLUE GAS COMPOSITION, VOLX NET CO 0 1.53 NET C02 0 1.30 TOTAL C02 87 84.3COMBUSTION PRODUCTS CARBON COMBUSTED, gr hr 0 0.80 HYDROGEN COMBUSTED, gr hr 0 0.06 NET CO, moles lOO moles C 0 576 NET C02, moles lOO moles C 0 490OXYGEN BALANCE CLOSURE, X 100.2 100.1 MASS BALANCE CLOSURE, X 100.4 101.0CO2 CONSUMED C CONSUMED 0 4.9 CO PRODUCED C02 CONSUMED 0 1.21CO C02 RATIO IN FLUE GAS 0 0.022NOTES 1 EQN 1 STOICHIOMETRIC RATIO C02 C l AND CO C02 2. UNSTEADY STATE OPERATION ACCOUNTS FOR STOICHIOMETRIC DIFFERENCES. 2 EQN 1 EQUILIBRIUM RATIO CO C02 3 AT 1400 F, 10 PSIG. The flue gas composition dlfferences observed between air and O2 CO2 regeneration of FCC catalyst are attributed to the high CO2 concentration in the net flue gas relative to air Table 6 . Carbon dioxide is a free radical scavenger, and the homogeneous reaction of CO to C02 is known to proceed via a free radical mechanism, which may account for this effect. TABLE 6 Comparison of Flue Gas CompositionRegeneration Gas Flue 6as. V Air 2O CO2 N2 79 O2 l 1 CO2 11 90 CO 0 0 H20 9 9 The experimental data vindicate that CO2 retards the afterburning of CO to C02. Further, at a given CO O2 ratio in the flue gas, catalyst regenerated with 02 C02 will have a lower CRC. This will result in higher converslon and increased C5 gasoline and coke yield. The relative net CO C02 ratio shown in Figure 1 shows a marked increase in net CO C02 with O2 C02 mixtures at CRC levels of 0.1 0.3. This indicates that more complete catalyst regeneration can be achieved in the partial combustion mode when regenerating FCC catalyst with 02 CO2 blends. This in turn reduces the temperature and oxygen demand of the regenerator, and therefore, the velocity of the regeneration gas is reduced. EXAMPLE 3 Increased Coke Burning caDactty at Partial Combustion and Constant CRC Increased coke burning capactty at complete combustion wlth independently controlled 02 C02 blends was illustrated in Example 2.Partial combustion further increases coke burning capacity by reducing the heat generated from the combustlon of carbon and the oxygen required for combustion. This results in a lower C02 rate required to control regenerated catalyst temperature, and therefore lower flue gas velocity.In typical air regenerators, significant CO generation can not be obtalned at complete catalyst regeneration because the CO afterburns to CO2. The pilot plant operatlon demonstrated that CO2 inhibits afterburning as shown in Figure 1. The inhibition of CO combustion to CO2 resulted in a 60 increase in CO generation at constant CRC. This is illustrated in present Example 3. Case E in Table 7 is an example of a commercial FCC air partial combustion operation. Based on data inFigure 1, the net CO C02 ratio can be increased from .14 to .20 at the same CRC level with 02 CO2 blend gas.Case F illustrates this at the maximum preferred O2 concentration of 30X. The CO2 rate.can be increased further, diluting the 2 to 24 resulting in an increase in heat balanced coke yield from 6.0 to 6.8 wt at the same regenerator temperature, catalyst CRC, and gas velocity as Case E. This is shown inCase 6. In Case H, the CO2 rate is increased to the minimum preferred 2 concentration of 21 , representing the maximum coke burning capacity at a net CO C02 ratio of 0.20.It is anticipated that significantly higher net CO CO2 ratios can be achieved at acceptable CRC levels due to the inhibiting effect of C02 on afterburning . Agaln, the increased coke burning capacity is achieved at constant reactor conditions. This represents a significant increase in residuum feed capacity when an FCC unit is operated to regenerate catalyst with independently controlled 02 C02 blends while maintaining optimum reaction conditions. Cases F, G, and H are represented by points F, 6 and H in Figure 4. TABLE 7 Runs in Support of Example 3CASE E F 6 HCombustion Gas Air O2 CO2 O2 CO2 02 C02 Coke Yield, wt Fd 6.0 6.15 6.80 7.30Flue Gas Composi tion CO C02 Ratio, Mole Mole 1 0.14 0.20 0.20 0.20 02, Mole 0 0 0 0 Combustion Gas SCF Bbl Fd 3095 2200 3030 3665 O2, v 21 30 24 21 lb N2 Bbl Fd 181 ib CO2 Bb 1 Fd 179 268 336 lb O2 Bb 1 Fd 55 55 61 65Flue Gas Rate,ACF Bbl 5,520 4,000 5,450 6,560Regenerator GasVelocity, Relative 1.0 0.7 1.0 1.2 to Case ECRC 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25Control Relation ship alb O2 1b Coke 2.82 2.76 2.76 2.76 alb CO2 1b O2 15 15 15 kl dib CO2 1b Coke 40 40 40 l From Figure 1 Relative Net CO C02 Ratio for 02 C02 gas is 1.4 times air In the practice of the present invention, regenerator velocities will be controlled in conjunction with the regenerator temperature when controlltng the carbon dioxide rate independently from the oxygen rate for fluidizing gas. Based upon the high heat capacity of carbon dioxide relattve to nitrogen, regenerator velocity can be reduced by up to 30 while keeping regenerator temperature, reactor temperature, and catalyst to oil ratio constant. Alternately, C02 rate can be adjusted to achieve the desired catalyst to oil ratio within temperature and velocity limits. Compared to nitrogen containing regeneration systems, the present invention allows additional coke burning capacity within the velocity and the temperature constralnts of the regenerator, and provides the additional degree of freedom to control catalyst to oil ratio at the desired level. This increases residuum feed capacity at optimum yields. U.S. Patent 4,388,218 cited previously discloses a two stage regeneration process wherein spent catalyst from the FCC reactor is contacted in a first regeneration zone with varying ratios of 2 and CO2 gas at 900 1200 F, to partially combust the coke with no net evolution of heat via reactions 1 through 4 above. Based on the experimental results, reaction 1 will be negligible in the temperature range cited and the heat of reaction will be highly exothermic. Therefore any combustlon of coke will result in the net evolution of heat and an increase in temperature. The second stage of the regeneration process is operated at typical FCC regenerator temperatures of 1250 1400 F with air as the combustion gas to remove coke from the catalyst before returning it to the reactor. Operation of the two stage process as taught in the patent will be limited to coke yields typical of commercial FCC operation wlthout significant net heat evolution. All of the attendant limitations on alr regeneration cited herein will then apply to the 2 stage process descrlbed. European Patent Application 0072653 recognizes this, and teaches a two stage regeneration process wherein the first stage is operated at 1400 1600 F with a metal catalyst added to specifically catalyze reaction 1 . The teaching in the present invention differs from the above prior art in that regeneration of spent FCC catalyst is not dependent on reaction 1 , and that the independent control of 02 and CO2 to a single regeneration reaction zone operating between 1250 1600 F can result in a significantly broader range of heat balanced operation of theFCC process without major net evolution of heat viva steam coils, catalyst coolers, or other devices as demonstrated by examples 1 3 above. EXAMPLE 4 CO2 QUENCH OF FLUE GAS A further embodiment of the invention ts the addition of quench gas, preferably from the same source as the C02 rich fluidization gas at 100 200 F, to the regenerator dilute phase preferably when operating in the partial combustion mode, although such a quench can be used when operating in complete combustion This embodiment is explained tn current Example 4 and illustrated in Table 8. Case I in Table 8 represents typical FCC air regeneration conditions operating in partial combustton. By substituting C02 forN2, the amount of CO afterburned is reduced as illustrated inExample 3. At a CRC of 0.25, the calculated net CO CO2 mole ratio in the flue gas increases .083 to .116 , and results in a lower regenerator dilute phase temperature 13480F to 1318 F as shown in Case J. However, some CO afterburning is still occurring since the temperature difference between the dilute and dense phases is still 4l0F in Case J. By quenching the dilute phase flue gas to 1100 F, CO afterburning can be totally eliminated. As shown in Case K, this results in a calculated net CO C02 mole ratio of 0.164 and flue gas dilute phase temperature of 1100 F. With the degree of freedom to quench the regenerator dilute phase flue gases to eliminate afterburning, complete catalyst regeneration can be achieved at a significant level of partial combustion. The rate of CO quench when operating in the partlal combustion mode will typically be 15 to 35 wt of the total fluidization gas rate represented by line 16 in figure 5, and preferably between 20 to 30 wt of the fluidization gas to maximize coke burning capacity while maintaining the flue gas temperature entering the regenerator catalyst separation cyclones at 1000 1400 F and preferably lOSO 1150 F. TABLE 8 COMPARISON OF AIR AND C02 REGENERATION WITH CO2 QUENCH TO FCC REGENERATOR DILUTE PHASE CO2 QUENCH CO2 WITH QUENCH AIR C02 C02 ADDED TO BASE RECYCLE RECYCLE CASE 6 CASE1 CASE CASE CASECASE I J K LFLUE GAS COMP.NET CO C02, m m 0.083 0.116 0.164 0.20 2 vX O 0 0 0COKE YIELD, WTX 5.37 5.37 5.65 6.80 lb Bbl Fd 17.4 17.4 18.3 22.0COMBUSTION 6AS O v 21 30 30 24 I 02 Bbl Fd 50 49.4 49.2 61 ib N2 Bbl Fd 166.5 ib C02 Bbl Fd 158.3 158.3 268QUENCH GAS TO DILUTE PHASE lb C02 Bb Fd 40.6 80.5FLUE GAS RATE, SCF Bbl 2960 2069 2420 3895 ACF Bb1 5150 3540 3630 5840 REGENERATOR GAS VELOCITYRELATIVE TO BASE CASE I 1 0.69 0.70 1.03CAT OIL 1b Bb1 Fd 2430 2430 2430 2275TEMPERATURES, F REGENERATOR DILUTE 1348 1318 1100 1100 DENSE 1277 1277 1277 1311REACTOR 960 960 960 960COMBUS.GAS 290 290 290 290PRESSURE, ATM. 2 2 2 2NOTES 1. Typical commercial operation. 2. Assumes quench eliminated CO afterburn equivalent to the heat required to praise dense phase temperature to dilute phase temperature in Case J. 3. Relative to Case E. A typical application of this invention follows, using figure 5 as a reference. When feeding a relatively low coke yielding feedstock to the FCC represented by Case B commercially pure gaseous oxygen 10 ts combined wlth C02 rich inert gas 14 to form the regenerator fluidization combustion gas blend 16 . This gas is injected tnto the dense catalyst zone of the regenerator 20 where coke on the catalyst from the reactor 24 is combusted in the presence of the oxygen containing fluidization gas 16 to CO, C02 anHO. The regenerated catalyst 26 coke level CRC is controlled by the oxygen 16 rate, and the regenerated catalyst 26 temperature by the independently controlled C02 rate 14 . Case B is operated in the complete combustion mode by addlng a catalyst promoter such that there is no CO afterburning and therefore CO2 quench 18 to the dilute flue gas zone of the regenerator 22 is not needed. Catalyst particles are separated from the flue gas in the cyclones 30 and returned to the catalyst bed 20 . The flue gas leaves the regenerator in line 28. Now it is desired to feed a higher coke yielding feedstock to the regenerator. First the complete combustion catalyst promoter ts removed, resulting in partial combustion operation as represented by case J. The reduction in heat generation due to the tncomplete CO combustion, reduces the regenerator catalyst temperature 20 resulting in an increase in catalyst circulation rate to maintain FCC reactor temperature. The dilute phase temperature remains htgh due to CO afterburning in the dilute phase flue gas 22 .Since afterburning will limit coke burning capacity by increasing temperature and flue gas velocity, C02 quench 18 is injected independently of stream 14 into the dilute phase 22 to reduce the flue gas temperature to 1100 F as shown in Case K. Now, when the high coke yielding feed is processed, the increased coke is combusted by increasing oxygen leo to the regenerator catalyst zone 20 . The CO2 rate 14 is increased to control the regenerated catalyst temperature in zone 20 and the CO2 quench rate 18 is increased to control the flue gas temperature to the cyclones 30 at IlOO0F. The result is Case L, wlth the flue gas velocity equivalent to the velocity of the alr regeneration Case E. Changes in C02 fluidlzatlon flow rate required to offset changes in inherent feed coking tendency, while maintaining desired process conditions are defined by the relationship Y K1 C Co YoWherein Y New C02 rate, ib C02 Bbl Fd Y0 Initial C02 rate, lb C02 Bbl Fd CO Initial feed coke yield, lb coke Bbl FdC 2 New feed coke yield lb coke Bbl Fd kl 40 50 Complete Combustion CO C02 0 lb C02tib coke 30 50 Partial Combustion, CO C02 O lb C02 lb coke Determination of the feed coking tendency can be done by a procedure, such as the standard Mtcro Actlvlty Test MAT . Since in this invention the C02 rate is set to control regenerator catalyst temperature, the catalyst to otl ratio can be held constant, and the incremental coke yield from the MAT test will be representative of the incremental coke yield in the FCC unit when switching to the new feed.Alternately, a relationship between coke yield and feed Concarbon residue can be used. The constant kl is a function of many things, but the primary effects are the amount of 02 required to combust the coke and the regenerator catalyst temperature. The constant kl is calculated for each case in Examples 2 and 3. The operating range defined by this relationship is illustrated inFigure 4. By varying the CO2 rate, constant reaction conditions can be maintained as coke yield is increased, whether in complete or partial combustion. A portion of the operating zone defined by this relationship is represented by the area enclosed by points BCGF for the examples given. The operating zone for air at the same constant conditions is equivalent to the line BF. Increased coke yields can be achieved in air, but the regenerator temperature will rise and catalyst oll ratio will decrease resulting in decreased conversion. Regenerator temperature and gas velocity will also limit the air coke burning capacity. InExamples 1 and 3 Case A, 6 , coke burnlng capacity is increased 20X at constant regenerator temperature and flue gas velocity when controlling the C02 rate independently of the oxygen rate. Higher levels of CO generation than shown in Example 3 are anticipated and are included by this invention. Although the present invention has been set forth wlth regard to a specific preferred embodiment, it is deemed that other variations from the invention can be contemplated by those skilled in the art.Therefore, the scope of the invention should not be limited by this particular embodiment, but rather should be ascertained from the claims which follow.