# Controlled hydration of low voltage aluminium electrolytic capacitor foil.

## Abstract
An improved low voltage aluminium electrolytic capacitor foil produced by a method of controlled hydration in warm water without the use of passivators having increased capacitance for a given size and using less energy in its formation.

## Claims
1. A method of producing low voltage aluminum electrolytic capacitor foil having high gain and high energy efficiency, including the steps of etching said foil and cleaning said foil characterized in that said foil immediately after cleaning is immersed in a deionized water, said water having a temperature ranging from 30 C to 80 C, said water containing no passivators said foil being dried and subr sequently formed at effective formation voltages ranging from 10 volts to 190 volts. 2. An aliminum foil for low volt electrolytic capacitor foil having high gain and high energy efficiency, obtained by the method of Claim 1.

## Description
Controlled hydration of low voltage aluminum Electrolytic capacitor foil. This invention pertains to the formation of low voltage aluminum electrolytic capacitor foil and in particular to the hydration of said foil before drying to increase the capacitance of the foil and the efficiency of formation of the foil without losing capacitance due to uncontrolled reaction. Since the introduction of aliminum electrolytic capacitors around the turn of the century, there has been a continuing struggle to increase the capacitance per unit volume of the devices. Given the standard formulae for the capacitance of a parallel plate capacitor, increased capacitance is obtained either by increasing the true to apparent area ratio through etching or to increase the ratio of dielectric constant to dielectric strength through formation. The present invention is con concerned with formation. The first ctrrrcial capacitors used boric acid formation solutions to produce the aluminum oxide dielectric. Because of the stability problems and the solution costs, phosphate solutions displaced boric acid for low voltage use. In time, it was discovered that pretreatment such as hydration, heat treament and annealing would produce improved formation effieciency and hence speed of formation and higher capacitance. These foils were inherently unstable.Hence, the hot water, heat treatment, and various other depolarization procedures were developed to permit the use of these gain improving, energy reducing processes. The difficulty remained with low voltage foil because of its very fine etched tunnels, approximately a few tenths of a micron in diameter. Hydration is produced by a violent reaction with hot water which is difficult to control externally to the thicknesses required. Another approach involving high temperature heat treatment, produced high gain and high efficiency formation, However, the nature of this oxide was such as to be very difficult to produce stable, low leakage current formed foil. Experience showed that the proper annealing of the foil after etching had some benficial effects on capacitance without the associated difficulties of heat treated foil. Currently, develoPxnent work has focused on the use of dicarboxylic acids as formation ionogens. It has been faund that these electrolytes produce capacitance equivalent to or greater than heat treatment at voltages above 25 EEV. This process produced high stability, high gain foil. The present application is based on an understanding of the mechanism of gain enhancement offered by dicarboxylic acid formation. U.S. Patent No. 4,252,575 teaches that attempts have been made to hydrate low voltage foil by use of passivators to control hydration. The results as disclosed in this patent appear no better than the presentlyused processes. It is current in the art to use 95 to IOOOC deionized water with passivators to slow the reaction.This method is very difficult to control and has disadvantageous passivators which limit the capacitance increase possible in certain formation solutions. Deductive reasoning shows that all known high gain formation processes involve treatments between etch and formation which deposit and or modify the surface layer, a thermal oxide of hydrate.The dicarboxylic acid process meachanism is not known but cauld conseivablybe aided by the presence of such a layer. Thermal layers are difficult fran a control and stability point of view. The difficulty with hydration is that long induction times render control difficult.The induction time appears to be related to the fact that hydration cannot begin until the existing thermal oxide left by annealing and or drying has been dissolved or penetrated. With this understanding, the control measure suggested by the present invention is to eliminate the induction time by depositing the hydrous surface layer before drying and annealing. This can be accomplished after final rinse in the etch procedure by exposing the foil to haeted deionized water at a temperature low enough to control the reaction rate. The hydration of aluminum capacitor foil has long been used to increase capacitance and aluminum oxide formation efficiency in foils over 100 volts. Difficulty with low voltage foils has been in the control of the process so as to eliminate the amount of hydrate formed to prevent excess aluminum consumPtion and cacitance loss. Conventionally, hydrations done in 95 to 1000C deionized water produce pseudo boemite. The process is characterized by a finite, variable induction time followed by a violent reaction. Other attempts to control the process have centered on the use of passivators like boric acid, borax, phosphate, etc., in hot water to slow the reaction.The difficulty is that the passivators are themselves difficult to control and they leave a residue on the surface which limits the effectiveness of certain formation solutions like adipate and others. The novelty in the present invention is in the elimination of the induction time by hydrating immediately after etching and cleaning and to limit the reaction by using low water temperatures, in the range of 30 to 80 C. This reaction produces a hydrate believed to be bayerite but still gives up to 24 capacitance increase and 43 efficiency increase. The use of this method is detectable by a ramp formation curve and scanning electron micrographs of the foil surface. The procedure of this invention may occur any time after etching but preferably immediately after cleaning to eliminate the variable induction time The water should be deionized, greater than 1 megohmrsm2 at 240C for cleanliness, but need not be to produce the hydrate. Temperatures below 300C are too low to produce realistic reaction times. Temperatures above 800C cause too fast and violent a reaction for reliable control. The key to the improvement relies on the realization that greater amounts of high capacitance crystalline oxide are produced when a proper surface layer is present on the etched foil. The process of the present invention for low voltage foil involves producing this surface layer by immersion in heated deionized water at the end of the etching procedure while the alum surface is still fresh. Ramp formation data shows that the warm water treatment promoters earlier formation of high gain crystalline oxide while reducing the coulcbbs required to accomplish formation. The use of the warm water process also produces a sim multaneous speed increase and capacitance increase for certain effective formation voltages. Figures la, b and c are graphs showing the effect of time in warm water on laboratory etched foils. Figures 2a, b and c are graphs showing the effects of temperature on factor etched foils for 1.8 minutes immersion. Figures 3a and b are graphs combining the effects of warm water on machine speed and V uf product at 52 volts. Figure 4 is a qraph showing ramp formation and reform curves comparing cold and warm water rinsed foils. Figures 5a f show the surface morphology of etched foils for 1.8 minute water rinse at various temperatures. Figure 6a through 6f are graphs of the ramp formation and reform curves concentrated solution showing the effect of increasing hydration.DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS The first series of experiments used laboratorye etched foil which had various warm water 50 C treatment times. All samples e laboratory formed in a dicarboxylic salt solution to 52 volts only. This data can be seen in Figures la, b and c. As an additional note, this foil was blotted dry before air drying at 1500C. Figure la shows the coulats required for formation. Here the reduction in charge reflects the increased incorporation of preexisting surface oxides or hydroxides into the barrier layer. Up to 118 of the orginal charge was saved for 4 minutes treatment. The uc cm2 the product of the number of microfarads and the effective forming voltage per unite area in Figure 1b shows a steep rise up to 2 minutes followed by a leveling or slight drop up to 4 minutes.Finally, Figure ic gives the relative coulombic formation efficiency which increases up to 58 fram no treatment to 4 minutes. The results of these tests show that capacitance and formation efficiency can both be affected benefically by proper warm water treatment after etching but before drying. The next step was to determine the proper operating temperature for an etch machine since the time is determined by the Ttaxiraan path length and machine speed. The results of this experiment are shown in Figures 2a, b and c. Each graph has five curves one each for 10, 25, 50, 100, and 165 volts . The legend shows the symbols for each. Figure 2a shows the behaviour of the c cmê as measured in aqueous electrolvte as a function of temperature T. The 10 EFV curve shows little effect up to 50 C where capacitance loss begins. The 25 EU5V curve shows approximately 24 increase followed by smaller increases for 50, 100, and 165 EFV respectively. Figure 2b shows the formation coulatibs as being flat or reduced by as much as 20 . Both of the above are reflected in the Coulombic Efficiency in Figure 2c. This figure increased by as much as 56 . The implication here is that for 1.8 minutes treatment at 60 all foils in the range of 25 to 100 volts can attain increased capacitance and increased machine speed caulombs simultaneously. This represents a doublebarrelled effect of dramatically increasing the production of foil uc hour by up to 56 if this data transfers to machine etched foil. The next step in the series was to etch a roll of low gain, low voltage foil such that the last pass of the rinse tank was held at 600 2 C this gave approximately 1.5 minutes in the warm water . The other passes were held at 300C. Figure 3a shows the effect on formation machine speed V as a function of the distance 1 when the junction between cold and warm water treated foils passes through at 52 volts. There is a 8.1 speed increase at 400 meters. The circled data occured during a foil breakage when the machine was restarted. The formed foil profile Figure 3b also shows a jump of 10.7 in pc cm2 at 425 meters. These transition do not exactly align due to slight miscalibrations in the separated tachometers. In order to gain insight into the meachanism of the warm water effect, samples of the two types of factory etched foil was ramp formed, tested, depolarized, and ramp reformed in Figures 4 a and b . The curves on the left are the formation curves current I as a function of forming voltage V7 showing the cold water foil a peaking at a higher current approximately 10 volts later than the warm water foil b . The curves on the right are ramp reform and show the warm water foil peaking at 7 higher current at 24 of the effective forming voltage. The cold water ramp reform has its peak at 30 of the effective forming voltage. The lower current for warm water ramp form despite its 7 higher uc cm2 reflects the improved formation efficiency. The fact that the curves cross at 90 volts implies that the advantage of the warm water foil is used up and that similar mechanisms apply above this voltage. The warm water ramp reform curve maximum is higher than that of the cold water foil by the same percentage as its gain advantage. This implies similar depolarization mechanisms.The significant factor here is the fact that the peak of the warm water foil ramp reform curve cames earlier. In the conventional view of ramp data, this fact implies that the crystalline amorphous boundary in the oxide is closer to the metal surface than with cold water foil. Thus, if a surface layer is left by the warm water treatment, then it appears to promote earlier initiation of crystalline oxide than the layer left simply by drying and annealing the foil. The next evidence is the series of SEM photos in Figures 5a through f. They show the evaluation of what appears to be hydros aluminum clumps. At 25 to 50 C, these features are approximately 250 A in diameter. At 600C, they measure nearly 400 A and go up to 550 A at 65 and 700C. In order to elucidate themechanism of hydrated low voltage formation, samples were ramp formed to 165V in concentrated dicarboxylic salt solution at 90 C. The concentration solution minmized the IR drop across the solution so that the shape of the curve is more nearly representative of the surface area efficiency of the sample. A close comparison of these curves for formation peak Vo and plateau V1 voltages is made in Table 1. TABLE 1 RAMP DA2A FOR VARIOUS FY HYDRATE TEMPERATURES Hydrate Form ReformTemperature Plateau Maximum votes cc V1 V2 25 40.5 25.0 40 27.5 18.5 50 23.5 18.3 60 21.5 17.5 65 31.0 33.5 Ramp Maximum has double 70 34.5 33.5 peak or is flattenedThere is no trend in the peak voltage. However, the plateau voltage decreases with increasing hydration temperature up to 65 C where an abrupt increase occurs. The reform ramp hump V2 also shows this trend. Since the hump voltage is considered to be related to the position of the crystalline amorphous oxide interface, this data implies that increasing hydration lowers the crystal initiation voltage.