# Tension spring device.

## Abstract
A device 13 for taking up tensile stresses under resilient conditions includes a body as a spring element 1 , made of an elastic material, preferably rubber, a draw element and connecting devices 3 . Said draw element is shaped from a firm material as a metal chain, a cable wire, a chain etc. and extends inside said spring element and is fixedly connected with said spring element, i.e. the rubber body and arranged in said manner by the manufac turing method, for example by vulcanizing. End portions of said draw element are arranged as connecting devices. When the draw element consists of a metal chain the end links or a portion of the end links of the chain constitutes said connecting devices, whereby the links are arranged to project from the spring element. Said connecting devi ces could be equipped with an additional link or a ring 9 as a connecting element for the devices which are to be connected, i.e. for example a hauling or a drawing rope, a bridge, a bouy, a grounding stone for a buoy, machine ele ments, mechanical components, automobiles etc. for tow ing, mooring, anchorage, clamping etc.

## Claims
PATENT CLAIMS tensile 1. Arrangement for taking up stresses under resilient conditions and in that connection for example when connecting bodies, as when towing, mooring, anchorage, damping etc. and comprising a spring element of an elastic material, preferably rubber, at least one draw element and connecting devices, which are arranged at a distance from each other and united to the draw element or united to the draw element by means of connecting elements, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that said spring element is arranged to surround or essentially surround said draw element or said draw element together with said connecting devices or said connecting elements of the connecting devices and in that said spring element shows such a shape, that the spring element divergesfrom a running along a straight line between at least two connecting devices. 2. Arrangement accordingto claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that said connecting devices or said connecting elements of the connecting devices are arranged into the spring element and therewith in fixed attachment with the elastic material. 3. Arrangement according to claim 1 or 2, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that said draw element or said draw element together with said connecting devices or said connecting elements of the connecting devices extend through said spring element in its extension between end portions of said spring element or corresponding portions of the spring element. 4. Arrangement according to any one of the preceding claims, c h a r act e r i z e d in that said draw element extends inside said spring element and shows a length exceeding the length of the spring element. 5. Arrangement according to any one of the preceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that said draw element is shaped from a non elastic material. or a material showing an elasticity, which essentially is less than the elasticity of the elastic material of the spring element and consists of a chain, a metal chain or a cable or another against tensile stresses resistance body. 6. Arrangement according to claim 5, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that said draw element shows at least two bodies of material, for exemple composed of the end links of a chain, metal chain or cable, which are arranged to project from the spring element with a portion, whereby said projected portions represent said connecting devices. 7. Arrangement according to claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the spring element is composed of a body, which in the main forms a shape of a S , U , V or semicircle or a body showing another angled or curved extension. 8. Arrangement according to claim 7, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the spring element is composed of a body, which forms shape of a U or V, whereby the free ends of the legs are arranged at an angle to the legs of said body. 9. Arrangement according to claim 1 or 8, whereby said draw element consists of a chain, a metal chain, a cable or an equivalent element, which is arranged in the spring element, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that each side of an angle, leg, wrist or a corresponding portion of said spring element comprising one or more links of the chain or the like. 10. Arrangement according to claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the spring element shows one or more cavities. 11. Arrangement according to claim 10, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the cavities are taking up an elastic. material, which preferably shows a power of elasticity, which differs from the remaining material of the spring element. 12. Arrangement according to claim 10, c h a r a c t e r i z ed in that the spring element is shaped as a polygon body, for example a body of a pyramid or a body of an ashlar. 13. Arrangement according to claim 10, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the spring element shows a spherical surface and for example is shaped as a globe, a sphere, a cylinder or the like. 14. Arrangeme nt according to claim 1, 5 or 6, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the spring element forms a circular, an oval or another endless body, for example a body showing three or more edges. 15. Arrangement according to claim 1, 7 or 8, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the spring element is shaped as a body showing symmetrical in rotation, whereby the axis of rotation extends through two corresponding connecting devices. 16. Arrangement according to claim 15, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the spring element is shaped with an extension which in the main is located on one side of the axis of rotation.

## Description
Title of invention Tension spring deviceThis invention relates to an arrangement for taking up stresses under resilient conditions and in that connection when for example bodies are connected to each other, as when towing, mooring, anchorage, damping etc. and comprising a spring element of an elastic material, preferably rubber, and further comprising at least one draw element and connecting devices.When for example a connection between bodies is desirable one uses holding or drawing ropes, chains or the like and it is often necessary and in most cases desirable to provide such holding or drawing ropes or the like with a spring element for taking up the tensile stesses which occur. Thus, one wants to avoid strong pulse in the rope or the like. Often, one tries to attain that the rope or the like can be maintained in a substantially constant tension, when the rope is subjected to tension load. This is of great importance for example when the rope, chain or the like is to be used for the mooring of boats or towing of all kinds of things.There are arrangements known for taking up stresses under resilient conditions and for example helical springs shaped of a metal wire, which have been used for the mooring of boats, whereby the spring has been arranged at the mooring place for mooring of the boat by means of a mooring rope. Such conventional helical springs made of metal have also been included in holding ropes, drawing ropes or chains as a resilient element, whereby the ropes or chains have been split up in two pieces, which afterwards have been connected to each of the ends of the spring.However, there are inconveniences when using such known helical springs of metal by the fact that when the rope or chain is connected to the spring one obtains a holding rope or a drawing rope or a chain with less strength than the strength of the rope or the chain. Further, it has been stated that springs made of metal can cause damages on boats, when such a spring is included in the mooring.For many reasons it is preferable to use a spring element consisting of rubber, inter alia because of the fact that the spring motion is soundless and that no scraping of for example a boat takes place.Hereby, one has made use of a bar shaped body of rubber as a spring element and to avoid the relatively great problems in consideration of the relatively low tensile strength and tearing strength of the rubber when the spring has only been made of rubber, one has arranged the holding rope or the drawing rope or the like around the bar shaped spring in a helical curve. Such a spring presents a spring strength which often is too small. When for example using said spring for mooring of buoy it has occured that it exists a need of a suitable tension spring device, whereby one has suggested that the portion of the length of the drawing rope is vulcanized into a bar shaped body of rubber, whereby the rope in its vulcanized condition extends in a helical screw path.Thus, a portion of the rope has been provided with a spring element, whereby when tensile stresses occur in the rope, there will be a resilient effect by means of the resilient resistance of the rubber against a stretching of the rope.In spite of the arrangements suggested, and in which the spring element consists of a bar shaped body of rubber, it has not been possible to use the elastic properties of rubber in a satisfactory way for taking up the resilient movement. The arrangement in accordance with the invention fulfils the demands made on a tension spring device of said kind and at the same time said disadvantages are set aside. One object with the arrangement according to the invention is to produce an improved tension spring device of such a kind, where rubber is utilized as a spring element. There is one improvement in addition to use the resilient properties of the rubber of the spring element, namely that the spring element itself is shaped as a springy or resili ent element and in consideration of said shaping the spring ele ment could only be made of a rubber body showing the specific shaping.Such a rubber body is furnished with connecting devices for connecting of holding ropes or drawing ropes or chains or the like but to secure a continued connection between these bodies or elements which are connected by the holding rope or drawing rope or the chain or the like the spring element is provided with at least one draw element of such a kind and strength that when the spring element is broken the draw element continues connecting these bodies or elements which are to be connected.The arrangement according to the invention is characterized in that the connecting devices are arranged at a distance from each other and in that the spring element is shaped to reach between the connecting devices or the connecting elements of the connecting devices and further in that the spring element is arranged to surround or essentially surround the draw element or the draw element together with the connecting devices or the connecting elements of the connecting de vices and in that the spring element shows such a shape that the spring element diverges from a running along a straight line between at least two connecting devices. Another object for the arrangement according to the invention is that the arrangements include a draw element, which extends through said spring element in its extension between end portions of said spring element or corresponding portions of the spring element. A further object for the arrangement according to the invention is that said draw element extends inside said spring element and has a length exceeding the length of the spring element.By this the draw element, preferably both said end portions, could be used as connecting devices for holding ropes or drawing ropes or chains or the like or by the fact that the arrangement can bemadefastto a body or an element as a bridge, buoy, a grounding stone for the buoy, machine elements, mechanical components etc.By the shape the arrangement according to the invention has obtained the arrangement will take up tensile stresses as a combination of tensile stress, bending stress and some compressive stress on the elastic spring element. It is further possible in an easy manner to change the characterization of the tension spring device by changing the shape and or changing the dimensions of the spring element.Further characteristics and advantageous features for the arrangement according to the invention will be evident from examples in the following description of the invention, whereby a contemprary reference will be made to the enclosed schematic drawings, wherein fig. 1 shows in perspective one embodiment of the arrangement according to the invention, fig. 2 shows in plane and partly in cross section a second embodiment of the arrangement according to the invention, fig. 3 shows in perspective a third embodiment of the arrangement according to the invention and fig. 3a 3e shows in plane further embodiments of the arrangement according to the invention. The same details shown in the figures have the same reference indication and thus the reference indication 1 indicates a spring element of elastic material, preferably rubber. Further is shown by reference indications 2 and 3 a draw element and connecting devices respectively.The spring element 1 according to the arrangement in the figures consists of a body, which end portions or corresponding portions show connecting devices 3, which are fixed connected to the rubber body and show such a shape, that connections with the arrangement are possible. The connecting devices 3 are arranged at a distance from each other, whereby the spring element 1 or the elastic material is arranged to reach between said connecting devices. The spring element 1 shows hereby such a shape that the spring element diverges from a running along a straight line between at least two connecting devices, i.e. when the spring element 1 shows for example two connecting devices 3 the spring element can not be shaped to reach in a straight line between the connecting devices. In fig. 1 is shown an arrangement 11 according to the invention, which shows in the main a shape of a V.The end portions of the spring element are in their length performed with connecting devices 3. The connecting devices are hereby formed by a draw element arranged inside the spring element, i.e. the arrangement has such a dimension and such a shape that the end portions of said draw element would project from the spring element and said projecting portions of said draw element are the connecting devices 3 of the arrangement. The connecting devices as said draw element can be a portion of a holding rope or a drawing rope or a chain or the like. According to the example, the draw element shows a length exceeding the length of the spring element 1. Said draw element extends inside said spring element in its extension between the end portions of the spring element.The example according to fig. 2 shows an arrangement 12 according to the invention, whereby the above mentioned extension of the draw element inside the spring element is shown, whereby the draw element is indicated with reference indication 2. A draw element can be or is preferably shaped or made by a no stretching material, for example consisting of metal or formed by a material showing an elasticity, which essentially is less than the elasticity of the elastic or resilient material of the spring element 1. An example of such a material can be a plastic material. But said draw element must consist of a device, which is strong or firm against tensile stresses, for example a metal chain, a cable, a wire or a rope or a chain as shown in the example.Hereby, the chain is shaped and arranged in such a way that a link of the chain extends in the wrist portion 4 of the arrangement, while two links of the chain extend in each leg 5 of the arrangement. Because the draw element 2 will have a connection, preferably a fixed connection to the connecting devices of the arrangement, the connecting device 3 consists of a portion of a connecting element of the draw element, whereby the connecting device and the connecting element form a link of the chain, see right part of fig. 2.To avoid or to reduce damages from the arrangement on adjacent arrangements, the connecting device 3 of the arrangement can be encircled of a soft or against blow damping material 6 , i.e.according to this example the rubber material,which will form the elastic material of the spring element 1. According to the example holding ropes or the like can lie close to the connecting device without any scraping or damaging on the rubber material 6.The rubber material can at the same time surround the connecting device 3.According to the arrangement 13 shown in fig. 3, the spring element 1 shows in the main a shape of a U or a combination of a shape of a U and a V. The wrist 7 of the spring element has been shaped with a stronger dimension concerning the elastic material of the spring element. The grounds to this shape of the spring element are that there exist great stresses in that portion and the portions crossing to the legs. Further, the spring element 1 has been formed with rounded crossings of the different extensions. One can also see a holding rope or a drawing rope 8, which is united with the connecting device 3.This can constitute an example concerning that fact that the connecting device 3, as the draw element extending into the spring element 1 forms by a lengthened portion of a connection portion between the holding rope or the drawing rope 8 or a connecting portion between said ropes or the like, whereby the holding rope or the drawing rope can show the same dimension and nature through its whole length, i.e. including the connecting device and the connecting element. It is also possible to arrange a ring 9 or another connection to the connecting device, whereby said ring or said connection is joined with the connecting device to make a suitable connection to a second device or a second element. Several examples of an arrangement 14, 15, 16, 17, 18 respectively according to the invention are shown in fig. 3a 3e, whereby the arrangement 14 according to fig. 3a shows a spring element 1, which in the main forms a shape of V. The spring element or the elastic material, which is included in the spring element, is arranged to surround the connecting devices 3 and also the draw element. The connecting devices 3 are by this included into the configuration of the V shaped rubber body.Fig. 3b 3c show an arrangement or a spring element 1, which is formed by a body which in the main is shaped as a S and a semicircle respectively. From the figures and as an example is shown that the connecting devices 3 constitute of a different device, which construction and shape differs from the arranged draw element 2 according to fig. 1 3. Thus, the connecting device 3 according to the example of fig. 3b is made up of a ring or the like 10, which is united with the spring element 1 by means of a connection element 20. In this case the connecting device 3 is united with the spring element 1 through the connection element 20, whereby the connection element is arranged into the spring element by a fixed connection with the elastic material and besides the connection element can be united with the draw element arranged into the spring element. The spring element 1 is shaped to reach at least between said connection elements 20.Thus, the examples according to the embodiments of fig. 3a 3c show that the draw element or the draw element together with the connecting devices or the connecting elements of the connecting devices extend through the spring element in its extension between end portions of said spring element or corresponding portions of the spring element.The connecting device 3 according to the embodiment in fig. 3c is composed of one from the spring element 1 projecting connecting portion 10, which with its inside the spring element located portion is united or arranged with the draw element 2, which in this example consists of a wire or another line. The embodiment according to fig. 3d will show that the spring element can be composed of a body, which forms a circular, an oval or another endless body, for example a body showing three or more edges.The figure shows an arrangement 17 according to the invention, which shows a circular form with a draw element 2 and connecting devices 3. The draw element 2 shows an endless draw element, which can have two or more, for example four or six connecting devices 3, whereby the connecting devices 3 are arranged projected from the spring element 1.The example according to fig. 3e shows an arrangement 18 according to the invention, whereby the spring element 1 consists of an element with a shaping, which is more or less like a plate with a shape of a square or a rectangle with one or more notches 19, whereby the notches are made in the elastic material and arranged between two connecting devices 3 of the extension of the spring element.It is evident from the examples above that the arrangement or preferably the spring element is formed as a body showing symmetrical in rotation, whereby the axis of rotation extends through two corresponding connecting devices 3 or extends in line with the intended directions when the arrangement is subjected to tensile stresses.According to one specific embodiment, which is evident from that shape the spring element must show according to the invention, the spring element is shaped with an extension, which in the main is located on one side of the axis of rotation or on two sides of the axis of rotation or both sides of the axis of rotation, whereby the spring element shows corresponding shapings and extensions on both sides of the axis of rotation.Thus, there is a great freedom inside the scoop of the concept of the invention to shape the arrangement or especially the spring element with a suitable form, shape and dimension, which in turn involves that the arrangement is applicable to a multiplicity of different uses, as the free shaping and dimensioning can be adjusted after the different uses and fields of application. There are pos sibilities to make use in full of said advantages irrespective of which form or shape the arrangement is given. A straight or an upright body or a body with a shape of a bar is an exception from the freedom to shape the arrangement and the spring element in a suitable way and in consideration of the use and purpose for the device, as mentioned above.Without exceeding the scoop of the concept of the invention, modifications may be made to the arrangements shown and described in the examples. Thus, the spring element can be shaped with one or more cavities, which gives special properties when tensile stresses are taken up by the arrangement. Further, said cavities can be arranged for taking up an elastic material, which preferably shows a power of elasticity, which differs from the remaining material of the spring element.In certain connections it can be suitable to shape the arrangement or the spring element as a more uniform body, i.e. for example a body with a shape where the straight line between two connecting devices forms an axis of symmetry and according to further embodiments of the arrangement according to the invention, the spring element is shaped as a polygon body, for example a body of a pyramid or a body of an ashlar. Further embodiments of such an arrangement can be that the spring element shows a spherical surface and for example is shaped as a globe, a sphere, a cylinder or the like.As presented in former embodiments of the arrangement according to the invention the draw element is arranged into the spring element of the arrangement and as an example one can refer to the embodiment according to fig. 3d, where the spring element shaped as a ring and including the draw element and connecting devices is provided with for example a covering shaped as a sphere or the like, which lies close to the periphery of the spring element. This embodiment is also suitable for a damping function. Of course, the position of the draw element into the spring element can be different and as an example one can refer to the embodiment shown in fig. 3, where a link of chain is arranged in the wrist portion of the spring element and therewith with a parallel extension in consideration of the connecting devices extension.Further, the links arranged on both sides of said link in the wrist portion can be located into the rounded passings between the wrist portion of the spring element and its legs, while a nu ber of the following links could be arranged in a line with each other, for example in a line with four links. Next link can for example be located in the passing between the legs of the spring element and the end portions of the legs, which are angled to the legs, while the last link in both ends of the draw element partly is included in the draw element and with a portion projects from the spring element as connecting devices. The devices of the arrangement, which are located in the spring element or the elastic material draw element, connecting devices, connecting elements etc. are united or fixed with the spring element by vulcanization.The arrangement can also be included into a towing line or a mooring line, i.e. the line is divided and afterwards connected by the arrangement according to the invention, whereby the towing line or mooring line is provided with a tension spring device. Thus, the connecting line between a buoy and a grounding stone for a buoy can be performed in said manner or as mentioned before that the arrangement is arranged more direct to the buoy and or the grounding stone for the buoy and also that the connecting line or rope extends between two devices or arrangements according to the invention. The connecting devices 3 of the spring element 1 can be united with one or more into the spring element arranged draw elements, which in turn can form an unbroken continuation of the holding lines or drawing lines, metal chains, chains, cables or the like. Therefore, the invention is not limited to the embodiment shown and described, but only by the following patent claims.