# A process for procuding 5 doxy L arabinose.

## Abstract
5 Deoxy L arabinose IV is produced in high yield and at low cost by oxidizing L rhamnose dialkylmercaptal I with hydrogen peroxide in an acetic acid solvent, followed by de composing the resulting oxidationproducts with ammonia. The 5 deoxy L arabinose produced is useful as a start ing material for synthesizing L erythro 5,6,7,8 tetrahydrobi opterin.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for producing 5 deoxy L arabinose characterized by comprising the steps of i oxidizing L rhamnose dialkylmercaptal with hydrogen peroxide in an acetic acid solvent and ii decomposing the resultant oxidation product with ammonia. 2. A process as claimed in claim 1, wherein a sulfite or bisulfite is added to the oxidation reaction mixture and, after removing the acetic acid therefrom, the resultant residue is treated with the ammonia. 3. A process as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein the acetic acid is used in an amount of at least 3 times by weight of the amount of the L rhamnose dialkylmercaptal.

## Description
A PROCESS FOR PRODUCING 5 DEOXY L ARABINOSE TECHNICAL FIELD The present invention relates to a new process for producing 5 deoxy L arabinose. More specifically, it relates to a process for industrially or commercially producing 5 deoxy L arabinose from L rhamnose dialkylmercaptal at a high yield and at a low cost. BACXGROUND ART 5 Deoxy L arabinose is a known compound useful as an intermediate for synthesizing L erythro 5,6,7,8tetrahydrobiopterin, which is expected to be effective and is now eagerly studied as a remedy for phenylketonuria see J. Am. Chem. Soc., 78, page 5868, 1956 . 5 Deoxy L arabinose must be synthesized because it is not naturally occurring sugar. 5 Deoxy L arabinose is conventionally produced by reacting L rhamnose with ethyl mercaptan to form L rhamnose diethylmercaptal, oxidizing the resultant L rhamnose diethylmercaptal to 1,1 diethylsulfonyl L manno 2,3,4,5 tetrahydroxyhexane, then decomposing it with ammonia. This conventional production process, however, is disadvantageous in that the desired 5 deoxy L arabinose cannot be satisfactorily produced from the practical point of view. Various proposals have been made to use various oxidizing agents in the oxidation step of L rhamnose diethylmercaptal.For example, processes using i propionic acid peroxide see J. Chem. Soc. page 3544, 1955 , ii sugar derivatives of phthalic acid peroxide see J. Am. Chem.Soc., 78, pages 5868, 1956 , and iii m chloro perbenzoic acid J. Am. Chem. Soc., 98, page 2301, 1976 have been proposed. However, the above mentioned processes i and ii are not industrially satisfactory due to the fact that the yields of the desired product are as low as 49 and 35 , respectively. Furthermore, the above mentioned process iii is disadvantageous in that the m chloroperbenzoic acid is expensive, although the yield of the desired product is acceptable. DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION Accordingly, an object of the present invention is to eliminate the above mentioned disadvantages of the prior arts and to provide a process for producing 5 deoxy L arabinose at a high yield and at a low cost. Another object of the present invention is to produce 5 deoxy L arabinose at a high yield by using, as an easily available and cheap oxidizing agent, hydrogen peroxide. Other objects and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the following descriptions. In accordance with the present invention, there is provided a process for producing 5 deoxy L arabinose comprising the steps of i oxidizing L rhamnose dialkylmercaptal with hydrogen peroxide in an acetic acid solvent and ii decomposing the resultant oxidation product with ammonia. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF WAY OF CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION The present inventors studied to oxidize L rhamnose dialkylmercaptal with a conventional oxidizing agent, hydrogen peroxide, which is commercially available at a low cost. When L rhamnose dialkylmercaptal is oxidized with hydrogen peroxide under conventional conditions, however, the desired l,l diethylsulfonyl L manno 2,3,4, 5 tetrahydroxyhexane cannot be substàntially obtained.As a result of further study, the present inventors found that L rhamnose dialkylmercaptal is easily oxidized and the desired l,l diethylsulfonyl L manno 2,3,4,5 tetrahydroxyhexane can be obtained at a high yield when a relatively large amount of acetic acid is used as a solvent. Thus, according to the present invention, L rhamnose dialkylmercaptal I is oxidized with hydrogen peroxide in acetic acid and the resultant oxidation product II and III are decomposed with ammonia to produce the desired 5 deoxy L arabinose IV , as follows EMI3.1 wherein R represents a lower alkyl group, preferably an alkyl group having 1 to 3 carbon atoms. In the practice of the preferred embodiment of the present invention, L rhamnose dialkylmercaptal I is first suspended or dissolved in acetic acid. The oxidation reaction is then carried out by adding hydrogen peroxide to the resultant suspension or solution. In this oxidation reaction, the amount of the acetic acid used as a solvent affects the oxidation reaction. The use of too small an amount of the acetic acid tends to result in insufficient progress of the desired oxidation reaction and the generation of undesirable side reactions. Accordingly, the acetic acid solvent is generally used in an amount of at least 3 times by weight, preferably 4 to 10 times by weight, and more preferably 5 to 6 times by weight, of the amount of theL rhamnose dialkylmercaptal I in the reaction mixture. The use of too large an amount of the acetic acid is not preferable, because it is not economical since the acetic acid should be removed from the reaction mixture. Although hydrogen peroxide is theoretically used in an amount 4 times by weight of the amount of the Lrhamnose dialkylmercaptal I , the hydrogen peroxide is practically and preferably used in a slightly excess amount, e.g., in an amount 4.3 to 5 times by weight of the amount of the L rhamnose dialkylmercaptal. The oxidation reaction can be carried out by, for example, dropwise adding the hydrogen peroxide to the reaction mixture at a temperature of 300C or less, followed by reacting at a temperature of 200C to 300C for 10 to 50 hours. The resultant oxidation reaction mixture obtained above is preferably subjected to, for example, a distillation and concentration step, whereby the excess hydrogen peroxide and the acetic acid solvent are removed therefrom. The resultant residue is then decomposed with ammonia. However, in the preferred embodiment of the present invention, the above mentioned oxidation reaction mixture is first treated with a sulfite or bisulfite to decompose the excess hydrogen peroxide before the removal of the excess hydrogen peroxide and the acetic acid solvent. This is because, when the oxidation reaction mixture is directly concentrated on a large industrial scale, the resultant oxidation product is unpreferably decomposed to remarkably decrease the yield of the desired 5 deoxy L arabinose. This undesirable decomposition of the resultant oxidation product can be effectively prevented when the concentration of the oxidation reaction mixture is carried out in the presence of the sulfite or bisulfite. Examples of the sulfites or bisulfites usable in the present invention are sulfites such as lithium sulfite, sodium sulfite, potassium sulfite, and ammonium sulfite and bisulfites such as sodium bisulfite, potassium bisulfite, and ammonium bisulfite. Although there is no critical amount of the sulfite or bisulfite, the sulfite or bisulfite is preferably used in an amount of at least 2 times by mole, preferably 2 to 4 times by mole of the amount of the excess hydrogen peroxide. The concentrated residue of the oxidation reaction mixture obtained above contains a mixture of l,l dialkyl sulfonyl L manno 2,3,4,5 tetrahydroxyhexane II and 1, l dialkylsulfonyl L manno monoacetyloxy 3 4,5 trihydroxyhexane III . This mixture can be directly decomposed, without separation, with ammonia in the subsequent step. The compounds II and III can be decomposed with ammonia in any conventional manner. For example, a mixture of the compounds II and III is the resultant residue may be first dissolved in water and ammonia then added to the resultant aqueous solution to adjust the pH of the aqueous solution to 9 to 10. The compounds II and III are thus treated with ammonia for 10 to 20 hours at room temperature. As a result, the desired 5 deoxy L arabinose IV can be obtained at a high yield. The 5 deoxy L arabinose IV thus produced can be converted to L erythro 5,6,7,8 tetrahydrobiopterin VI as follows. 5 Deoxy L arabinose phenylhydrazineEMI6.1 L Biopterin Tetrahydro L biopterin These reactions are disclosed in, for example,Bull. Chem. Soc. Japan, 48, page 3767, 1975 et al, J.Am. Chem. Soc., 78, page 5868, 1956 ibid, 98, page 2301, 1976, J. Chem. Soc C ., 1969, page 928, and Helv. Chim.Acta, 52, page 1225, 1969. As mentioned hereinabove, the resultant tetrahydro L biopterin is effective for curing phenylketonuria as disclosed in, for example,Lancet, 1979, page 131 and N. Engl. J. Med., 293, page 785, 1975. The present invention now will be further illustrated by, but is by no means limited to, the following examples. Example 1 A 5.4 g amount of L rhamnose diethylmercaptal was suspended in 30 ml of acetic acid. Then, 9.3 g of a 30 aqueous hydrogen peroxide was dropwise added to the resultant suspension at a temperature of 200C to 300C over 10 minutes. After the completion of the dropwise addition, the reaction mixture was allowed to stand while stirring at the same temperatures for 15 hours. A 40 ml amount of water was then added to the resultant oxidation reaction mixture and the resultant mixture was concentrated in vacuo at a bath temperature of 450C or less. Thus, 7.7 g of a mixture of 1,1diethylsulfonyl L manno 2,3,4,5 tetrahydroxyhexane and l,l diethylsulfonyl L manno monoacetyloxy 3,4,5 trihydroxyhexane was obtained. Thereafter, 7.7 g of the resultant mixture obtained above was dissolved in 25 ml of water, and the pH of the resultant aqueous solution was precisely adjusted to 9.2 by gradually adding a 28 aqueous ammonia. The mixture was allowed to stand while stirring at room temperature for 15 hours. The precipitated diethylsulfonyl methane was removed by filtration and the filtrate was treated by an ion exchange resin i.e., Lewatit S 100, 70 ml Lewatit MP 62, 70 ml, both resins available from BayerA.G. . The solution thus treated was concentrated is vacuo. The remaining diethylsulfonyl methane was removed by being extracted with chloroform. The resultant aqueous phase was distillated off in vacuo.Thus, 2.0 g yield 75 of 5 deoxy L arabinose was obtained in the form of pale yellow oil. The infrared spectrum IR , nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum NMR , optical rotation, and thin layer chromatography TLC CHC13 C2H5OH CH3COOH 10 7 3 analysis data of the product obtained above were identical to those of the authentic sample. The IR and NMR data were as follows IR film, cm1 3350 3380, 2930 2980, 1650, 1125, 1065, 1035, 990 NMR D2O, TSP g 1.38 d , 3.54 4.40 m , 5.16 t Example 2 A 500 g amount of L rhamnose diethylmercaptal was suspended in 2.75 liters of acetic acid. Then, 923.5 g of a 30 aqueous hydrogen peroxide was dropwise added to the resultant suspension at a temperature of 200C to 300C over 90 minutes. After the completion of the dropwise addition, the reaction mixture was allowed to stand while stirring at the same temperature for 45 hours. Thereafter, 283.6 g of sodium sulfite was dissolved in 1.4 liter of water in an ice bath and was dropwise added to the reaction mixture to remove the excess hydrogen peroxide therefrom. The resultant mixture was concentrated in vacuo at a bath temperature of 450C. Then, 1 liter of methanol was added to the concentrated mixture and the precipitated inorganic salts were removed by filtration. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to obtain 819.65 g of a mixture of l,l diethylsulfonyl L manno 2,3,4,5 tetra hydroxyhexane and l,l diethylsulfonyl L manno 3,4,5 trihydroxyhexane. Then, 819.65 g of the mixture obtained above was dissolved in 2.3 liters of water, and 274 ml of a 28 aqueous ammonia was gradually added to the resultant solution to precisely adjust the pH of the solution to 9.2. The mixture was allowed to stand while stirring at room temperature for 15 hours. The precipitated diethylsulfonyl methane was removed by filtration and the filtrate was treated with an ion exchange resin i.e., Lewatit S 100, 8 liters Lewatit MP 62, 8 liters . The solution thus treated was concentrated in vacuo. The remaining diethylsulfonyl methane was removed by being extracted with chloroform. The resultant aqueous phase was distilled off in vacuo.Thus, 213 g yield 84 of the desired 5 deoxy Larabinose was obtained in the form of pale yellow oil. The IR, NMR, optical rotation, and TLC CHC13 C2H5 OH CH3COOH 10 7 3 analysis data of the product obtained above were identical to those of the authentic sample, as in Example 1.