# Electrophotographic device.

## Abstract
An electrophotographic device having a process head 30 wherein four stages of charging exposing 33 , develop ing 35 , drying 36 and fixing 34 are continuously arranged at intervals corresponding to one frame of a film, and a process which requires a longer processing time is con ducted simultaneously while other processes are being conducted, thereby completing a whole process in a shorter time by a continuous operation.

## Claims
Claims 1. An electrophotograpic device having a process head 30 for forming picture images on an electro photo sensitive material 37 , characterized in that a said process head 30 comprises, as an integral construction, four processing chambers 33 36 of charging exposing, developing, drying and fixing b said charging exposing chamber 33 comprises a charging mechanism for charging a predetermined picture image area on said electro photosensitive material c said developing chamber 35 is designed so that a gap formed as its opening 35c is abutted against the surface with the static latent image with said static latent image being adapted to be developed by supplying the developer into said gap d said drying chamber 36 is designed so that drying air is applied to said electro photosensi tive material to dry the developer and e said fixing chamber 34 comprises a fixing mechanism which fixes the toner picture image formed on the electro photosensitive material. 2. The electrophotographic device as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that said respective processing chambers 33 36 are positioned with a mutual spa cing which allows them to correspond to one frame each of the picture images to be formed on the electro photosensitive material 3. The electrophotographic device as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that a suction slit is provided on at least one side of the outer periphery of said developing chamber 35 facing the electro photosen sitive material so that a negative pressure can be generated to suck up leaking developer. 4. The electrophotographic device as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that the distance between the partition in said drying chamber 36 and the electro photosensitive material opposing this chamber is chosen to be less than 2 mm. 5. The electrophotographic device as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that the opening of said drying chamber 36 is made larger than that of the developing chamber 35 . 6. The electrophotographic device as claimed in Claim 5, characterized in that the opening of said drying chamber 36 has a larger size in width wise direction than the electro photosensitive material 7. The electrophotographic device as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that said fixing mechanism in the fixing chamber 34 comprises a fixing lamp 34b , such as a xenon lamp or halogen lamp, a reflective mirror 34c for reflecting the light from said lamp, and a light transmissive member 34d for shielding vaporized substances of the toner which may be formed during fixing. 8. The electrophotographic device as claimed in Claim 7, characterized in that the structure is such that the distance between said light transmissive member 34d and the electric photosensitive material is greater than 1 mm. 9. The electrophotographic device as claimed in Claim 7, characterized in that air may be passed through the gap between said light transmissive member 34d and the electro photosensitive material. 10. The electrophotographic device as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that a press plate 38 is provided to force the electro photosensitive material closely against the process head 30 when the processing is carried out at least in the charging exposing chamber 33 or the developing chamber 35 . 11. The electrophotographic device as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that during a continuous operation to consecutively form picture images on the electro photosensitive material, a plurality of process ing steps, such as charging exposing, developing, drying and fixing, can be carried out simultaneously. 12. The electrophotographic device as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that a frame of picture image positioned at the opening of the fixing chamber 34 is fixed after the frame at the opening of the developing chamber 35 has been developed. 13. The electrophotographic device as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that a frame of picture image positioned at the opening of the fixing chamber 34 is fixed before the charging of the frame at the opening of the charging exposing chamber 33 is started. 14. The electrophotographic device as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that the drying of the frame positioned at the opening of the drying chamber 36 , the liquid squeezing operation for the frame at the opening of the developing chamber 35 and the exposure of the frame at the opening of the charging exposing chamber 33 are adapted to be conducted simultaneously during a predetermined length of time.

## Description
Electrophotographic Device 1 Field of the Invention This invention relates to an electrophotographic device having a process head which comprises four separate stages of charging exposure, developing, drying and fixing and which simultaneously processes a plurality of frames of a recording film. 2 Description of the Prior Art Picture image data is generally recorded on a microfilm or the like by a 5 stage processing which comprises charging, exposing, developing, drying and fixing in a wet type electrophotographic recording system.In short, a film or an electro photosensitive material is charged on the surface thereof by corona discharge in the charging process and forwarded to an exposing process. In the exposing process, picture image data to be recorded is projected and recorded on the film via an optical system, as an electrostatic latent image.The film with the electrostatic latent image is fed to a developing process, where a developer is applied on the photosensitive surface thereof, and toner is electrically adhered according to the pattern of the latent image. Then, the film is passed to the drying process to dry unnecessary developer. The toner which has been electrically adhered is fused in a fixing process, thereby recording the picture image data on the film almost permanently. If a special liquid developer is used, it may be dried and fixed simultaneously. In such a case, the drying process includes the fixing process, and the film may be finished completely by a 4 stage process. As it is possible to forward the image recording process by a frame of a film in such an electrophotographic system, it can advantageously reproduce picture image data immediately. Also, since said electro photosensitive member is not photosensitive until it is charged, the film can be inserted under the daylight, this being more advantageous compared with conventional recording systems using a silver halide photographic material therefore, this system has been applied in various fields. In the above electrophotographic recording system, as the toner is electrically adhered to an electrophotosensitive member as described above, it is necessary to immediately fix it. The above processing is, therefore, conducted on each frame consecutively and continuously. There have been proposed various types of recording heads which can conduct image processing in a short time and have processing sections arranged in a space saving manner. A conventional recording head is shown in Fig. l a and l b . The recording head 10 in Fig. l a is provided with a charging exposing section 11, a fixing section 12 adjacent thereto, a liquid removing section 13 and a developing section 14 arranged in that order, and all the sections other than the liquid removing section 13 have openings of a size corresponding to a frame of a film. A frame of the film is uniformly charged and projected with an image at the charging exposing section 11, then passed to the developing section 14 via the fixing section 12 and the liquid removing section 13, and processed for development. It then is reversed to be passed in the direction toward the liquid removing section 13 to remove the liquid and dry while moving toward the fixing section 12.Fixing process is conducted in the section, and at the same time a new frame adjacent to the first frame is charged and exposed at the charging exposing section. The recording head 20 shown in Fig. l b is an example where a main body 21 is slidably provided in the advancing direction of the film and is comprised of a developing section 22, an exposing section 23, a charging section 24, and a drying section 25 arranged in due order. In the recording head 20, the main body 21 is moved in the advancing direction of the film toward a frame thereof which is held stationary at a predetermined position to conduct processes from charging to developing consecutively by the charging section 24, the exposing section 23, and the developing section 22.Then, the main body 21 is reversed in movement so that the drying section 25 comes to face the frame to conduct drying and fixing operations. As reference materials concerning Fig. lEa , there are US Pat. No. 3,972,610 and No. 4,082,442, etc. As for Fig. l b , there isJap. Pat. Pub. Sho 54 13786. The conventional process heads for recording, how ever, have in common the drawback of a complex feeding mechanism because the relative moving direction of the head must be reversed after developing. Also, this structure is detrimental to efficiency in processing because a plurality of processes cannot be conducted simultaneously, and the intervals between processes tend to become extended. Further, the process head for recording shown in Fig. l a has a drawback in that since a pressure reducing pump is used for feeding the developer into the developing chamber, the structure of the liquid passage system becomes complicated and thus expensive. An object of this invention is to provide a reliable electrophotographic device of low cost for an electrophotographic system comprising four sections of the stages of exposure, development, drying and fixing which are arranged at intervals equivalent to that between frames, so that while a process which takes a long time is being conducted, other processes may be conducted simultaneously, thereby saving time as a whole. In order to solve the above object, the present invention is characterized by a structure comprising a charging exposing chamber, a developing chamber, a drying chamber and a fixing chamber arranged in that order along the advancing direction of an electro photosensitive material and formed integrally, wherein said respective chambers separately open upon each frame of the photosensitive material, said charging exposing chamber is provided with a discharging mechanism and a lens member, the developing chamber is provided with a feeding mechanism for a developer, the drying chamber is provided with a drying mechanism, and the fixing chamber is provided with a fixing mechanism such as a fixing lamp. Below, the invention is explained with reference to drawings, wherein Figs. l a and 1 b are perspective views to show the appearance of a conventional process head for electro photographic devicer Figs. 2 a and 2 b are schematic views to show an electro photosensitive material or a film Fig. 3 is a sectional view of a process head according to this invention Fig. 4 is a sectional view of back sections thereof, Fig. 5 shows an embodiment of an electrophotographic device using the process head according to the present invention and Fig. 6 is a chart to show the sequence of processing. Fig. 2 a shows an example of the electro photosensitive member to be used in the present invention, which comprises an elongated film 41 having a plurality of frames with picture images arranged at constant intervals. Fig. 2 b shows a film section 42 with a plurality of picture images formed on a sheet of a photosensitive member. Other films to be used in this invention may include a well known electrophotosensitive member having a photoconductive layer on a support member which has been processed for electroconductivity. Blip marks for counting the number of frames may be imaged on these films at the time of forming the picture images or printed in advance. Fig. 3 schematically shows a process head according to this invention. As shown in the figure, a process head 30 is provided with a housing 31. Said housing 31 is internally divided by partitions 32a, 32b and 32c into a charging exposing chamber 33, a developing chamber 35, a drying chamber 36 and a fixing chamber 34. The charging exposing chamber 33, the developing chamber 35, the drying chamber 36 and the fixing chamber 34 each face a film 37 and are arranged successively on a line in the advancing direction of the film and have respective openings corresponding to one frame of the film 37. A press plate 38 is provided to face said housing 31. Said press plate is fixed by means of an arm 38b attached to a rotatable shaft 38a for the press plate.It is desirable that the structure allows the fixing point 38c to be movable and that the press plate 38 can come in contact with the surface of the process head 30. The press plate 38 is designed so as to press the film 37 closely against the process head 30 during processing, and to release the film when it is forwarded. Corona electrodes 33b are provided above an opening 33a inside said charging exposing chamber 33.Said corona electrodes 33b act to generate corona discharge for charging the film surface at the opening 33a a corona wire 33c is preferably provided between said corona electrodes 33b. A charging mask 33d is provided on the outer periphery of the opening 33a to restrict the charging field to the size of a frame. A high voltage is applied for corona discharge between elements 33c and 33b. Electrodes 33b are normally kept at a potential closer to ground. The charging mask 33d should be positioned as close as possible to the film surface and reduced in thickness in order to clearly define the discharge fields on the film. If a flexible material is used, it can be positioned closer to the film to achieve a higher efficiency.Reference numeral 33e denotes a bias electrode for charging which improves the uniformity of charging by applying a potential substantially equivalent to that of the photosensitive member. An exposing lens 33f is provided at a position opposite to the opening 33a in the charging exposing chamber 33.The lens 33f acts to focus picture image data of a text provided separately not shown through said opening 33a on the film 37 and expose it to the light. Fig. 4 a is a sectional view of the charging exposing section 33. A corona wire 33c is provided at the center, and a lens 33f for exposure and the opening 33a are substantially opposed on both sides of the corona wire 33c. Next to said charging exposing chamber 33 is provided a developing chamber 35. A feeding mechanism for a liquid developer is provided inside of said developing chamber 35, and an electrode for developing 39 is disposed on the side which comes to face the film 37. Fig. 4 b is a schematic cross sectional view of the developing section. A cover 35a is provided inside said developing chamber 35, and an internal member 35b is positioned inside said cover 35a, thereby defining a supply route 35d and a discharge route 35e which run through the opening 35c. A liquid developer flows in from the outside through the supply route 35d to the opening section 35c to contact the film surface, and the toner is electrically adhered to the static latent image formed in said charging exposing section 33. The developer after development Is discharged through the discharge route 35e. The film is pressed onto the opening section 35c by the press plate 38 to prevent leakage of the developer. It is preferable to provide squeeze means to remove developer after the developing process and to improve the efficiency of the drying process subsequent thereto. There are many useful mechanisms such as a a corona squeeze, b an absorption mechanism, c a mechanism to suck liquid drops from the film surface with a piece of felt or capillary, d a mechanism for applying or blowing air or e a mechanism to supply hot air. Reference numeral 35f denotes an inlet for the air which is to be blown in. Further, a suction slit 35g is provided to prevent damage to the image which may be caused as the developer leaks from the developing chamber 35 to seep into the adjacent processing chamber or other images on the film during developing or squeezing of the developer.The suction slit 35g is under reduced pressure as it is connected to a suction pump not shown via a suction pipe 35h. It is not necessary to provide the suction slit 35g over the entire periphery of the opening of the developing chamber so long as it is provided on at least one side thereof, for example, at the bottom or the side. Next to said developing chamber 35 is provided a drying chamber 36 which is defined by a partition wall 40 opposing the film surface. In order to improve the drying efficiency, the opening 36a of said drying chamber 36 has a size larger than that of the opening 35c of the developing chamber 35 and larger than the width of the film. Said drying chamber 36 is provided with a drying means to supply air or hot air to dry the remaining developer, or with any other known drying means. A squeezing means similar to the one mentioned hereinabove may be provided in the chamber. Fig. 4 c is a sectional view of the drying chamber, in which the drying air is applied or blown onto the film 37, as shown by the arrow in Fig. 4 c . To shorten the drying time, it is most efficient to increase the air flow speed this can be achieved by reducing the distance between the partition 40 and the film 37. More specifically, an air speed of 1 m sec or more is desirable. With an air supply means of lower capacity, the partition 40 is preferably spaced from the film 37 by 2 mm or less in order to achieve said air speed. A fixing lamp 34b is provided inside a fixing section 34 positioned on the side of the housing 31 to extend toward the opening section 34a, while a reflection mirror 34c is provided behind said fixing lamp 34b. The fixing lamp 34b may be a xenon lamp, a halogen lamp or the like. If a light transmissive member 34d, such as a plastic film or glass, is provided between the fixing lamp 34b and the film 37, an adverse effect Which is caused by a gassified substance at the time of fixing may be prevented. Such effect can be prevented effectively if the air is circulated between the film 37 and said light transmissive member 34d. It is further preferable to increase the distance between the film 37 and said light transmissive member 34d, because the light transmissive member can be protected from being soiled by scattering toner specifically, this distance is more than 1 mm and, more preferably, 3 mm or more. A sectional view of the fixing chamber 34 is shown in Fig. 4 d . The light transmissive member 34d, the fixing lamp 34b and the reflection mirror 34c are arranged in this order to oppose the opening 34a. Although three partitions 32a, 32b and 32c are provided, the number of these partitions is variable depending on the mechanical strength, the method of manufacture, etc., of the process head 30. The feeding mechanism for photosensitive materials 37 which feeds or advances the materials by one frame may be a motor, such as a pulse motor, which is provided with a mechanism to feed a predetermined length of material, or a mechanism which positions a film by optically detecting marks which are provided on a film 37 at predetermined intervals. Fig. 5 shows one embodiment of an electrophotographic recording reproduction system which utilizes the process head 30 of the present invention. A roll of film 37 of 16 mm in width is printed in advance with blip marks 50 for every frame pitch. The blip marks 50 are read by a blip mark sensor 51 for controlling the feed of the film 37 or counting the number of frames.It is more convenient if the film 37 is previously mounted in a cassette which is in turn inserted in an electrophotographic device having the process head of the present invention, so that the film can be used for recording reproducing desired video data. In the embodiment shown in Fig. 5, the roll of film 37 contained in a cassette is provided with a magnetic tape at its leading end. As the cassette is inserted in the main body of the device, the retrieval data of the picture image recorded on the magnetic tape or the process data regarding the roll of film 37 can be read out by a magnetic head 52 provided on the main body of the device. In order to form a picture image on the roll of film 37, the blip marks 50 of the film are counted by means of the blip mark sensor 51, and the frame to be photographed is forwarded to the charging exposing chamber 33 by means of a film driving mechanism not shown provided on the main body of the device. As the film is forwarded one frame by one frame through the charging exposing chamber 33, developing chamber 35, drying chamber 36 and fixing chamber 34 arranged in this order, it undergoes various processes, and the picture images are formed thereon. The film with the picture images can be projected on the screen by a separate device exclusively for reading.The picture image can also be focused on the screen not shown to be used as a reader, by projecting light onto the film 37 from behind the press plate 38, as shown in Fig. 3, and by means of the exposure lens 33f. Fig. 6 shows an example of the processing sequence in case that a large number of frames are continuously photographed. The operation will be described hereinunder. When the first frame of the film 37 is aligned in front of opening 33a of the charging exposing chamber 37, the film 37 is moved closely to, and positioned at, the opening 33a by the press plate 38. In response to a start signal, corona discharge is started to charge electricity uniformly over the portion where a picture image is to be formed, and then picture image data are focused via the exposing lens 33f. When the press plate 38 is released, the film is forwarded by one frame, and when the first frame comes to be positioned at the opening of the developing chamber, it is pressed closely to the opening by the press plate 38 again. A developer is supplied by a feeding pump not shown or a suction pump not shown in a predetermined quantity to develop the electrostatic latent image, and then excessive liquid is squeezed or blown away by air.Although it is sufficient to actuate the suction slit 35g for suction only while the excessive liquid is dried by air, it may be actuated during all stages of the processing. The first frame is then moved to the opening of the drying chamber and is closely pressed by the press plate 38.The frame is dried by drying means provided in the drying chamber. After being dried, the film 37 is moved again by one frame to be positioned at the opening of the fixing chamber. The image is fixed by flashing of a xenon lamp, for instance, to complete the process. The above explanation has been given to the first frame of a film, but a similar operation will be conducted to the second frame and thereafter. If continuous operation is desired, while the first frame is being dried, the second frame is subjected to the liquid removing process, and the third frame is exposed simultaneously to save time. As described hereinabove, the processes for exposing, liquid removing and drying take a longer time compared with other processes. According to the invention, the four stages are arranged in a recording head consecutively in a line so that, while a frame is being dried, other adjacent frames can be simultaneously processed, thereby remarkably reducing the overall processing time and shortening the time intervals between exposing for continuous imaging. Light from outside should be prevented from entering, except for the light projected for focusing the image, throughout the process from charging to completion of the development, as this would deteriorate the picture quality by e.g. fogging. Therefore, the fixing operation with flash for a frame which is positioned at the fixing chamber should be conducted after the developing operation for another frame at the developing chamber has been completed, and before the charging operation for another frame positioned at the charging exposing chamber is started the period of t in Fig. 5 , to prevent deterioration which might otherwise be caused by the light leakage from the fixing lamp and to effectively reproduce a picture image of a high quality. This invention enables to finish such flashing fixation within the period t mentioned above, thereby offering a clear image. As has been described above, the construction of a process head for an electrophotographic device according to the present invention offers many advantages in practical use, such as 1. The charging exposing, developing, drying and fixing chambers can be constructed as an integral part, resulting in a compact and inexpensive device. 2. Simultaneous and continuous processing is possible as the respective chambers are arranged at intervals corresponding to one frame of the film and, thus, the time required can be greatly reduced in continuous recording.3. As the drying chamber is located between the developing and the fixing chambers, the fixing chamber can be protected from being soiled by developer leaking from the developing chamber, thereby improving the reliability of fixing.4. The provision of the light transmissive member in the fixing chamber prevents the fixing lamp from adverse effects caused by the vaporized substances generated at the time of fixing. 5. A separate drying chamber permits to reduce the distance between the partition 40 and the electro photosensitive material. Drying can be conducted efficiently with the use of inexpensive air supply means.6. By limiting the time for flash light fixing, adverse effects such as optical deterioration on adjacent frames due to leakage of light from the fixing lamp, can be prevented.7. As it is not necessary to use a pressure reducing means such as vacuum pump to supply the developer, the device can be made inexpensive.8. The device as a whole can be constructed at lower cost by combining adequate and inexpensive components suitable for the respective processing steps.9. As the drying chamber is made of a size larger than that of the developing chamber, the remaining developer on the film is dried positively.