# MANDELIC ACID DERIVATIVES.

## Abstract
Mandelic acid derivatives represented by general formu la I , wherein R₁ represents a hydrogen atom or a hydroxy group, X represents a halogen atom or OR₂ wherein R₂ represents a hydrogen atom, benzyl, benzhydryl, t butyl, tetrahydropyranyl or silyl , and A represents an optionally protected amino acid residue, or salts thereof. These com pounds are useful as intermediates for synthesizing cepha losporin derivatives, etc.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A mandelic acid derivative or a salt thereof, said mandelic acid derivative having the general formulaEMI28.1 wherein R1 is a hydrogen atom or a hydroxyl group, X is a halogen atom or the group OR2 in which R2 is a hydrogen atom or a benzyl, benzhydryl, tert butyl, tetrahydropyranyl or silyl group and A is an amino acid residue which may optionally be protected on the amino group thereof. 2. A mandelic acid derivative or salt thereof as set forth in Claim 1, wherein the amino acid residue is an amino acid residue. 3. A mandelic acid derivative I as set forth inClaim 1, said mandelic acid derivative being D O BOC Lalanyl mandelic acid benzyl ester. 4. A mandelic acid derivative I as set forth inClaim 1, said mandelic acid derivative being D O Nbenzyloxycarbonyl L alanyl mandelic acid benzhydryl ester. 5. A mandelic acid derivative I as set forth inClaim 1, said mandelic acid derivative being D O formylL alanyl mandelic acid tert butyl ester. 6. A mandelic acid derivative I as set forth inClaim 1, said mandelic acid derivative being D O BOC Lalanyl mandelic acid. 7. A mandelic acid derivative I as set forth inClaim 1, said mandelic acid derivative being D O Nbenzyloxycarbonyl L alanyl mandelic acid. 8. A mandelic acid derivative I as set forth inClaim 1 or a salt thereof, said mandelic acid derivative being D O L alanyl mandelic iacid benzyl ester. 9. A mandelic acid derivative I as set forth inClaim 1 or a salt thereof, said mandelic acid derivative being D O L alanyl mandelic acid. 10. A mandelic acid derivative I as set forth inClaim 1 or a salt thereof, said mandelic acid derivative being D O glycyl mandelic acid. 11. A mandelic acid derivative I as set forth inClaim 1 or a salt thereof, said mandelic acid derivative being D O L prolyl mandelic acid. 12. A mandelic acid derivative I as set forth inClaim 1 or a salt thereof, said mandelic acid derivative being D O L leucyl mandelic acid. 13. A mandelic acid derivative I as set forth inClaim 1 or a salt thereof, said mandelic acid derivative being O L alanyl D mandelic acid. 14. A mandelic acid derivative I as set forth inClaim 1, said mandelic acid derivative being 4 hydroxyD O BOC L alanyl mandelic acid.

## Description
SPECIFICATION Mandelic Acid Derivatives TECHNICAL FIELD This invention relates to novel mandelic acid derivatives of the general formulaEMI1.1 wherein R1 is a hydrogen atom or a hydroxyl group, X is a halogen atom or the group OR2 in which R2 is a hydrogen atom or a benzyl, benzhydryl, tert butyl, tetrahydropyranyl or silyl group and A is an amino acid residue which may optionally be protected on the amino group thereof, and salts thereof, said mandelic acid derivatives and salts thereof being useful as intermediates in the synthesis of cephalosporins, penicillins, etc. BACKGROUSJD ART The present inventors previously developed cephalosporin derivatives of the general formulaEMI1.2 wherein A is an a , ss or y amino acid residue bonded through an ester bonding which may optionally be substituted by a lower alkyl group on the amino group thereof,R3 is an l alkanoyloxyalkyl, l alkoxyearbonyloxyalkyl, phthalidyl or 5 methyl 1,3 dioxolen 2 on 4 ylmethyl group, R4 is a carbamoyloxymethyl group, which may optionally be substituted by a lower alkyl group or groups, or a heterocycle thiomethyl group, which may optionally be substituted by an appropriate substituent or substituents, and R1 is as defined above, and nontoxic salts thereof cf. PCT JP83 00437 .Said cephalosporin derivatives A and salts thereof are excellent in absorbability through the digestive tract and, after absorption, are rapidly converted to the unesterified forms of the general formulaEMI2.1 wherein Rl is as defined above, which correspond to the cephalosporin derivatives A , as a result of hydrolysis at the carboxylic acid ester moiety in position 4 of the cephem ring structure and at the amino acid ester moiety in position a in the 7 position side chain by enzymes occurring in the living body. Thus, oral administration of the cephalosporin derivatives A can result in high blood levels of the unesterified forms which have excellent antimicrobial activity. Therefore, the cephalosporin derivatives A and salts thereof are very excellent products. The present inventors conducted various investigations to bring baout improvements in the method of producing said novel cephalosporin derivatives A and salts thereof and found that the above mandelic acid derivatives I and salts thereof are very useful as raw materials for the production of said cephalosporin derivatives A and salts thereof. OBJECT OF INVENTION An object of the invention is to provide novel intermediates in the production of the cephalopsorin derivatives A . DISCLOSURE OF INVENTION The present invention consists in the mandelic acid derivatives I and salts thereof. Referring to general formula I , the amino acid residue represented by A means an acyl group derived from the carboxyl group of an amino acid and may be an a , ss ory amino acid residue. Said amino acid residue may optionally be substituted by a lower alkyl group or groups containing 1 to 4 carbon atoms, such as methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl or butyl. Such amino acid residue may occur as the D, L or DL form and may comprise two or more amino acids constituting a peptide.Such amino acid residue includes, among others, the following Neutral amino acid residues Aliphatic amino acid residues glycyl, alanyl, valyl, leucyl, isoleucyl, etc. , hydroxyamino acid residues seryl, threonyl, etc. , sulfur containing amino acid residues cysteinyl, cystinyl, methionyl, etc. , amidoamino acid residues asparaginyl, glutaminyl, etc. and aromatic amino acid residues phenylalanyl, tyrosyl, tryptophyl, etc. Acidic amino acid residues Aspartyl, glutamyl, etc. Basic amino acid residues Histidyl, lysyl, arginyl, etc. Imino acid residues Prolyl, hydroxyprolyl, etc. Other amino acid residues than a amino acids B Alanyl, y aminobutyryl, etc. N substituted amino acid residues Sarcosyl, N,N dimethylglycyl, etc. Peptide residues Glycylglycyl. The protective group for said amino acid residue may be any amino group protecting group in conventional use in ordinary peptide synthesis and is, for example, benzyloxycarbonyl, p methoxybenzyloxycarbonyl, trityl, tert butoxycarbonyl, 2,2,2 trichloroethoxycarbonyl, formyl or l methyl 2 ethoxycarboylvinyl. The salt of mandelic acid derivative I may be any pharmacologically acceptable salt and includes, among others, inorganic acid salts such as hydrochloride, sulfate, phosphate and nitrate and organic acid salts such as oxalate, fumarate, maleate, citrate, tartrate, methanesulfonate and toluenesulfonate. The mandelic acid derivatives I according to the invention can be produced, for example, by the method given below in terms of reaction equations. In general formula I , the halogen atom represented by X is preferably a chlorine, bromine or iodine atom.Referring toR2, the silyl group is preferably trimethylsilyl, tert butyldimethylsilyl or triethylsilyl, for instance. EMI6.1 In the above reaction equations, R2 is benzyl, benzhydryl, tert butyl, tetrahydropyranyl or silyl, A1 is an amino acid residue having a protective group on the amino group thereof,A2 has the same meaning as A , namely an amino acid residue having no protective group on the amino group thereof, Y isC1, Br, I or tosylate, X1 is a halogen atom, and A and R1 are as defined above. Step I is a step of esterifying the compound II and is carried out by reacting the compound II with benzyl alcohol, benzyl halide, diphenyldiazomethane, tertbutanol or a silylating agent e.g. trialkylsilyl halide such as trimethylsilyl chloride . The halide in said benzyl halide is preferably the chloride, bromide or iodide. The compound III obtained in step I is substantially known and is described in Journal of Chemical Society, 2188 1928 . Step 2 is a step of reacting the compound III with an amino acid or a reactive derivative thereof. The reactive derivative of amino acid to be used in this step is an ordinary reactive derivative at the carboxyl group and is, for example, an acid halide e.g. acid chloride, acid bromide , a mixed acid anhydride e.g. anhydride with monoethyl carbonate , an active ester e.g. cyanomethyl ester, 4 nitrophenyl ester or an active amide e.g. amide with imidazole . When the amino acid is used in the free form, it is preferable to use an appropriate condensation agent, such as an N,N disubstituted carbodiimide e.g. N,N dicyclo he xylcarbodiimide or an azolide e.g. N,N1 carbonyldi imidazole, N,N thionyldiimidazole . SJhen such a condensation agent is used, the reaction presumably proceeds via a reactive derivative of the carboxylic acid. This reaction is generally carried out in an inert solvent. As the solvent, there may be mentioned more specifically, water, an organic solvent such as acetone, dioxane, acetonitrile, chloroform, benzene, methylene chloride, ethylene chloride, tetrahydrofuran, ethyl acetate, N,N dimethylformamide or pyridine and a mixture of these. The reaction is preferably carried out at room temperature or under cooling 20 C to O C . When, in compound I l , the protective group in the amino acid residue A1 is benzyloxycarbonyl, R1 is preferably tert butyl or tetrahydropyranyl since said compound I 1 is subsequently converted to compound I 2 . Step 3 is a step of deprotecting compound I l . When R1 is benzyl, the deprotection is preferably carried out by hydrogenation e.g. catalytic reduction . The catalyst usable therein is, for example, palladium, platinum or Raney nickel. When R2 is tert butyl, tetrahydropyranyl or benzhydryl, the deprotection is preferably carried out by acid treatment, in which an inorganic acid such as hydrochloride or an organic acid such as trifluoroacetic acid or formic acid is used as the acid. Step 4 is a step of deprotecting compound I 2 to thereby convert the same to compound 1 3 . The deprotection in this step may be conducted by a known method selected depending on the kind of protective group. For instance, tert butoxycarbonyl and l methyl 2 ethoxycarbonyl may be eliminated by acid treatment, formyl by acid treatment, catalytic reduction or decomposition with hydrazine, 2,2,2 trichloroethoxycarbonyl by treatment with methanol and zinc, and p methoxybenzyloxycarbonyl by acid treatment or catalytic reduction. Step 5 is a step of reacting compound II with a reactive derivative of an amino acid as prepared by modification of the carboxyl group thereof e.g. N carboxy aamino acid such as 4 methyloxazolidine 2,5 dione to give compound I 3 . The reaction in said step may be conducted by a per se known method. Step 6 is a step of reacting compound II with a derivative of an amino protected amino acid as prepared by modification of the carboxyl group thereof to give compound I 2 . Step 7 is a step of reacting compound III with a reactive derivative of an amino acid with no protective group on its amino group as prepared by modification of the carboxyl group thereof to give compound I 4 . The reaction in said step may be carried out by a per se known method. Step 8 is a step of deprotecting compound I 4 to give compound I 3 and the deprotection may be conducted in the same manner as in step 3. Step 9 is a step of protecting the carboxyl group of compound IV and is carried out by reacting compound IV with benzyl alcohol, benzyl halide, diphenyldiazomethane, tertiary butanol, dihydropyran or silylating agent e.g. trialkylsilyl halide such as trimethylsilyl chloride . The halide in said benzyl halide is preferably the chloride, bromide or iodide Step 10 is a step of reacting compound V with a reactive derivative of an amino protected amino acid.The reactive derivative of amino acid to be used in this step is, for example, the lithium, sodium, potassium or cesium salt or an organic amine salt e.g. triethylamine salt, pyridine salt . The reaction of this step is generally carried out in an inert solvent. Examples of the solvent are water, organic solvents such as acetpne, dioxane, acetonitrile, chloroform, benzene, methylene chloride, ethylene chloride, tetrahydrofuran, ethyl acetate, N,N dimethylformamide and pyridine, and mixed solvents composed of these. This reaction is preferably carried out at about 50 C or below or with cooling 00 to 50C . Step 11 is a step of reacting compound IV with a reactive derivative of an amino protected amino acid.The reaction of this step is carried out in substantially the same manner as in step 10. Step 12 is a step of reacting compound V with an amino acid having no protective group on its amino group and is carried out in almost the same manner as step 10. Step 13 is a step of reacting compound IV with an amino acid having no protective group on its amino group and is carried out in the same manner as step 11. Step 14 is a step of producing compound I 5 by halogenating compound I 2 or I 3 with a per se known halogenating agent e.g. phosphorus pentachloride, phosphorus oxychloride, thionyl chloride, phosgene preferably phosphorus pentachloride . The halogenation reaction is generally carried out in an inert solvent e.g. methylene chloride, dioxane, acetonitrile, chloroform, N,N dimethylformamide, pyridine, mixture of these , at a reaction temperature of from about room temperature down to 200C to OOC with cooling , and preferably with stirring. The mandelic acid derivatives I are useful as acylating agents . For example, acylation of 7 aminocephalosporanic acid, esters thereof, 6 aminopenicillanic acid, esters thereof therewith can give cephalosporins and penicillins. More particularly, they are used as raw materials for the production of oral cephalosporins disclosed in PCT JP83 00437. The following examples illustrate the invention in more detail. They are, however, by no means limitative of the present invention. In the description which follows, BOC means a tertbutoxycarbonyl group and 0 a phenyl group.Example 1 Synthesis of D O BOC L alanyl mandelic acid benzyl ester Method 1 In 25 ml of methylene chloride, there are dissolved 2.42 g of D mandelic acid benzyl ester, 62 mg of 4 dimethylaminopyridine and 1.89 g of BOC L alanine. To the solution is added 11 ml of 1 M dicyclohexylcarbodiimide in methylene chloride at 50C to OOC, followed by stirring at the same temperature for 30 minutes. Thereafter, the resulting dicyclohexylurea is filtered off, and the filtrate is washed in sequence with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate, 10 aqueous citric acid and saturated aqueous sodium chloride.After drying over anhydrous sodium sulfate, the solvent is distilled off under reduced pressure. Ethyl acetate is added to the residue and the resulting precipitate, di cyclohexylurea, is again filtered off. The filtrate is evaporated to dryness under reduced pressure. Addition of n hexane to the residue gives 2.75 g 67 yield of the title compound. IR nujol, cm l 3370, 1740, 1690NMR CDC13, 8 value 1.41 s, 9H, C CH3 3 I 1.42 d, 3H, J 7Hz, CH3 CH I 4.48 m, lH, CH3 CH 4.8 X 5.2 br, lH, NH 5.16 s, 2H, CH2 6.01 Cs, lH, 6H 7.24, 7.38 2 x s, rOH, 9 x 2 Method 2 In 25 ml of tetrahydrofuran, there are dissolved 242 mg of D mandelic acid benzyl ester and 286 mg of BOCL alanine N hydroxysuccinimide ester, and the solution is heated under reflux for 4 hours.Thereafter, ethyl acetate is added, and the resulting mixture is washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and saturated aqueous sodium chloride. After drying over anhydrous sodium sulfate, the solvent is distilled off under reduced pressure.The residue is purified using 10 g of silica gel eluent benzene ethyl acetate 10 1 and crystallized from n hexane to give 200 mg of the title compound. method 3 BOC L Alanine 189 mg is dissolved in 2 ml of tetrahydrofuran, followed by addition of 1 ml of 1 M triethylamine in tetrahydrofuran and cooling to 150C. After addition of 1 ml of 1 M ethyl chloroformate in tetrahydrofuran, the resulting mixture is stirred for 5 minutes. Then, 121 mg of 4 dimethylaminopyridine and 243 mg of D mandelic acid benzyl ester are added, and the mixture is stirred at 15 C to 0 C for 2 hours and then at room temperature for 3 hours. Thereafter, ethyl acetate and water are added, and the ethyl acetate layer is washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and saturated aqueous sodium chloride. After drying over sodium sulfate, the solvent is distilled off under reduced pressure, The residue is purified using 10 g of silica gel eluent benzene ethyl acetate 10 1 and crystallized from n hexane to give 120 mg of the title compound.Example 2 Synthesis of D O BOC L alanyl mandelic acid In 100 ml of ethyl acetate is dissolved 12 g of the benzyl ester obtained in Example 1. After addition of 1 g of 5 palladium on carbon, the ester is catalytically reduced. After the reaction, the catalyst is filtered off, and the filtrate is evaporated under reduced pressure.Crystallization by adding n hexane to the residue gives 8 g 85Z yield of the title compound.IR nujol, 1 3500, 3425, 1725, 1690NMR CDC13, 6 value 1.38 s, 9H, C CH3 3 1.40 d, 3H, J 7Hz, CH3 CH I 4.40 m, lH, CH3 CH 6.00 s, 1H, CH 7.2 X 7.5 m, 6H, 1 COOH 9.27 br. s, 1H, NH Example 3 Synthesis of D O L alanyl mandelic acid benzyl ester Powder form L alanine 3 g is added to 200 ml of anhydrous tetrahydrofuran, followed by addition, under stirring, of a solution of 7 g of phosgene in 50 ml of anhydrous tetrahydrofuran. The mixture is stirred at 400C until it becomes a uniform solution.Tne solvent is then distilled off under reduced pressure, 100 ml of dried ether, 7.4 g of D mandelic acid benzyl ester and 50 mg of 4 dimethylaminopyridine are added, and the mixture is stirred overnight. The ether is distilled off, ethyl acetate is added, and the mixture is washed with aqueous sodium bicarbonate and aqueous sodium chloride. After drying over anhydrous sodium sulfate, the solvent is distilled off. There is obtained 2.7 mg of the title compound.NMR CCDCl3, 6 value 1.18 d, 3H, J 7Hz, CHCH3 4.3 m, 1H, CH3 CH 5.08 s, 2H, OCH2 6.09 s, lH, CHO 7.0 X 7.45 m, 10H, 3 8 X 10 br., 2H, NH2 Example 4 Synthesis of D 0 L alanyl mandelic acid hydro chloride In 5 ml of 99 formic acid is dissolved 2.4 g of the compound obtained in Example 2.With ice cooling, 15 ml of 4 N hydrogen chloride in isopropyl alcohol is added, and the mixture is stirred for lO minutes. Thereafter, the reaction mixture iS poured into ether, and the resulting crystals are washed with eth r and dried to give 1.2 g 62 yield of the title compound IR KBr, cm 1 1755, 1745 NMR DMSO d6, 6 value 1.49 d, 3H, J 7Hz, CH3 CH I 4.20 m, 1H, CH3 CH 6.01 s, 1H, CH 7.2 X 7.75 m, 5H, 8.00 X 9.80 br, 4H, Ni, C02H 31 a D 130.63 C 3 , methanol Example 5 Synthesis of D O N benzyloxycarbonyl L alanyl mandelic acid benzhydryl ester In 15 ml of methylene chloride, there are dissolved 1.19 g of D mandelic acid benzhydryl ester, 0.83 g of N benzyloxyearbonyl L alanine and 20 mg of 4 dimethylamino pyridine. At 50C to OOC, 3.7 ml of 1 M dicyclohexyl carbodiimide in methylene chloride is added, and the mixture is stirred at the same temperature for 30 minutes. Thereafter, the reaction mixture is treated in the same manner as in Method 1 in Example 1 to give 1.8 g of the title compound as an oil. IR Cnujol, cm Ú 1740, 1690 NMR CDCl3, 6 value 1.40 d, 3H, J 7Hz, CH3 CH 4.57 m, 1H, CH3 CH 5.08 s, 2H, C112 5.30 br, 1H, NHCH 6.09 s, 1H, CH 6.84 s, 1H, C02CH 7 X 7.4 m, 20H, phenyl Example 6 Synthesis of D O formyl L alanyl mandelic acid tert butyl ester To 100 ml of methylene chloride, there are added 12.6 g of formyl L alanine, 24.2 g of D mandelic acid tert butyl ester and 50 mg of 4 dimethylaminopyridine, followed by dropwise addition of 100 ml of 1 N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide in methylene chloride at 0 C. The resulting mixture is stirred at the same temperature for 30 minutes and then at room temperature for 1 hour, the precipitate is filtered off, and the solvent is removed under reduced pressure. Ethyl acetate is added to the concentrate, the resulting precipitate urea compound is filtered off, and the ethyl acetate is distilled off under reduced pressure. Thus is obtained 34 g of the title compound yield 100 .NMR CDC13, 6 value 1.4 s, 9H, CH3 3 1.45 d, 3H, J 7Hz, CHCH3 4.87 q, LH, J 7Hz, CHCH3 5.99 sj 1H, CHO 6.2 br, 111, NH 7.36 s, 5H, 8.12 s, 1H, CHO Example 7 Synthesis of D O N benzyloxycarbonyl L alanyl mandelic acid In 5 ml of methylene chloride is dissolved 524 mg of the compound obtained in Example 5. With ice cooling, 3.8 ml of trifluoroacetic acid is added, and the mixture is stirred for 1 hour. Thereafter, the reaction mixture is evaporated to dryness under reduced pressure, ethyl acetate is added to the residue, and the mixture is extracted with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate.The aqueous layer obtained is made acid with 10 aqueous citric acid and extracted with ethyl acetate. The ethyl acetate layer is washed with saturated sodium chloride and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, and the solvent is then distilled off under reduced pressure. Thus is obtained 260 mg 73 yield of the title compound. l IR nujol, cm 1730, 1680NMR CDC13, 6 value 1.40 d, 3H, J 7Hz, CH3 CH 4.50 m, lH, CH3 CH 5.06 s, 2H, CH2 5.3 X 5.7 br, 1H, NH 5.98 s, 1H, CH 7.29, 7.37 2 x s, 10H, x 2 8.30 br, s, 1H, C02H Example 8 Synthesis of D O BOC L alanyl mandelic acid BOC L alanine 2 g is dissolved in 30 ml of anhydrous tetrahydrofuran, followed by addition of 1.1 g of triethylamine and further by dropwise addition of a solution of 1.14 g of ethyl chlordformate in 10 ml of anhydrous tetrahydrofuran at 20 C. The resulting mixture is stirred at the same temperature for 30 minutes.Thereto are added 1.61 g of D mandelic acid and 50 mg of 4 dimethylaminopyridine, and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The solvent is then distilled off under reduced pressure, ethyl acetate is added to dissolve the residue, the solution is washed with aqueous sodium chloride and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, the solvent is distilled off under reduced pressure, and hexane is added.Upon standing, there is obtained 830 mg of the title compound the same compound as that of Example 2 . Yield 24X2. Example 9 In 40 ml of ethyl acetate is dissolved 3.6 g of the compound obtained in Example 5. After addition of 180 mg of palladium oxide, said compound is catalytically reduced.After the reaction, the catalyst is filtered off, hydrogen chloride is blown into the filtrate, the resulting crystalline precipitate is collevted by filtration. Thus is obtained 2.2 g 85 yield of the same compound as that ofExample 4.Example 10 Powder form L alanine 4.5 g was added to 200 ml of dried tetrahydrofuran, followed by dropwise addition of a solution of 6 g of phosgene in 50 ml of tetrahydrofuran with vigorous stirring. The resulting mixture was stirred at 40 C until it became homogeneous. The solvent was then distilled off under reduced pressure. D Mandelic acid 7.6 g and 200 ml of anhydrous ether were added, and the mixture was stirred overnight. The crystalline precipitate was collected by filtration and washed with ether and tetrahydrofuran to give 700 mg of the same substance as that of Example 4. Yield 5.4 Examples 11 13 ilandelic acid derivatives I shorn in Table 1 were obtained by following the procedures of Examples 1, 2 and 4 or of Examples 5, 7 and 9. Table 1EMI21.1 tb Example SEP Structural SEP formula SEP Physical SEP characteristics tb SEP 11 SEP b SEP CH C02H SEP IR SEP KBr, SEP cm SEP 1 SEP 1755, SEP 1720 tb SEP DSO dr, SEP a SEP value tb SEP C O SEP 3.93 SEP Cs, SEP DMSO d6, tb SEP CH SEP 6.01 SEP s, SEP 111, SEP 4 C11 tb SEP I SEP SEP 1H, SEP CH tb SEP N2.RCl SEP 7.15 SEP X SEP 7.70 SEP m, SEP 5H, SEP 4 tb SEP 7.80 SEP X SEP 9.60 SEP br, SEP 4H, SEP NEI, tb SEP CO2H tb SEP D O Glycylmandelic SEP 31 tb SEP acid SEP hydrochloride SEP D SEP SEP 128.240 tb SEP C SEP SEP 3 , SEP methanol tb SEP 12 SEP CHCO,H SEP IR SEP KBr, SEP cm SEP 1 SEP 1750, SEP 1730 tb SEP o SEP NMR SEP DMSO d6, SEP 6 SEP value tb SEP c o SEP 1.60 SEP X SEP 2.65 SEP m, SEP 4H, SEP CR2 SEP at tb SEP positions SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP of SEP proline tb SEP b SEP NH HC1 SEP 3.00 SEP SEP 3.55 SEP m, SEP 2H, SEP CR2 SEP at tb SEP position SEP 2 SEP of SEP proline tb SEP 4.30 SEP SEP 4.80 SEP m, SEP 1H, SEP CH SEP at tb SEP position SEP 5 SEP of SEP proline tb SEP D O L Prolyl SEP 6.04 SEP s, SEP 1H, SEP 4 6R tb SEP mandelic SEP ac SEP d SEP 7.20 SEP X SEP 7.25 SEP m, SEP 5H, SEP tb SEP hydrochloride tb SEP 8.70 SEP X SEP 10.60 SEP br, SEP 4H, SEP NHs tb SEP CO2H tb SEP 31 SEP SEP 140,940 tb SEP C SEP SEP 3 , SEP methanol tb SEP 13 SEP C1R.CO2R SEP IR SEP KBr, SEP cm SEP 1 SEP 1750, SEP 1740 tb SEP 2 SEP NMR SEP DMSO d6, SEP 6 SEP value tb SEP C o SEP 0.88 SEP d, SEP 6H, SEP J 5Hz, tb SEP CR CCH3 2 tb SEP CHCH2 CH SEP J SEP 1.30 SEP X SEP 2.25 SEP m, SEP 3H, SEP CH2CH tb SEP SEP CH3 SEP 3.75 SEP SEP 4.25 SEP Cm, SEP 1H, SEP CO CH tb SEP NH2 SEP HC1 SEP 5.99 SEP s, SEP 1H, SEP 4 R tb SEP 7.10 SEP s SEP 7.70 SEP Cm SEP 5H, SEP 4 tb SEP D O L Leucyl SEP 7.40 SEP SEP 9.30 SEP br, SEP 4H, SEP NH3, tb SEP mandelic SEP acid tb SEP . SEP hydrochloride SEP SEP 2 tb Example 14 Production of O L alanyl D mandelic acid chloride hydrochloride In 140 ml of methylene chloride, there was suspended 7 g of D O L alanyl mandelic acid hydrochloride obtained in Example 4, followed by addition of 140 ml of 8 phosphorus pentachloride in methylene chloride with cooling.The mixture was stirred overnight and then filtered to give 7.5 g 94Z yield of the title compound. Ca3, 56.28 c 1, dioxane IR nujol, cm 1 3020, 1790, 1750 Example 15 Production of D O L alanyl mandelic acid hydro chloride a Bromophenylacetic acid 2.1 g was dissolved in 5 ml of dried dimethylformamide. N Trimethylsilylacetamide 2.6 g was added, followed by addition of 2.4 g of potassium salt of N l methyl 2 ethoxycarbonylvinyl L alanine. The mixture was stirred at 300C for 16 hours. To the reaction mixture was added 1.1 ml of 10 N ethanolic hydrochloride. The mixture was stirred for 30 minutes and poured into ether. The resulting precipitate was purified using an Amberlite XAD II column elution with water and the eluate fraction was lyophilized. Recrystallization from methanol ethyl acetate and then from methanol ether gave 330 mg of the title compound.Example 16 Synthesis of 4 hydroxy D O BOc L alanyl mandelic acid 1 4 Hydroxy D mandelic acid 6.2 g is dissolved in 50 ml of acetonitrile. Diphenyldiazomethane 7.9 g was added at O G and the mixture is stirred at the same temperature for 1 hour. The precipitate is collected by filtration and washed with isopropyl ether. The thusobtained benzhydryl ester 9.7 g is dissolved in 40 ml of dried tetrahydrofuran, and 19.8 ml of 30 carbobenzoxy chloride in toluene. Further, 4.25 ml of triethylamine is added dropwise gradually, and the mixture is stirred for 30 minutes.The solvent is distilled off under reduced pressure, ethyl acetate is added to the residue, the mixture is washed with aqueous sodium carbonate and aqueous sodium chloride and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, the solvent is distilled off under reduced pressure, and the residue is crystallized from petroleum ether and ethyl acetate. In this manner, 12.3 g of 4 benzyloxyearbonyloxy D mandelic acid benzhydryl ester. Yield 71 IR Cnujol, cm 1 3450, 1760, 1740NMR DMSO d6, 6 value 5.28 s, 2H, CH2 5.34 d, 1H, J 6Hz, CH OK 6.22 d, 1H, J 6Hz, OH 6.79 s, 1H, CHf2 6.9 X 7.7 m, 19H, phenyl 2 BOC L alanine 5.34 g is dissolved in 300 ml of methylene chloride and the solution is cooled to OOC. 1 M Dicyclohexylcarbodiimide in methylene chloride 28.3 ml is added and, thereafter, 11.5 g of the compound obtained in 1 and 150 mg of 4 dimethylaminopyridine are added, and the mixture is stirred at the same temperature for 1 hour. The precipitate is filtered off and the solvent is distilled off under reduced pressure. Ethyl acetate is added to the residue, the solution is washed with 10 aqueous citric acid and aqueous sodium chloride and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, and the solvent is distilled off under reduced pressure, followed by recrystallization from petroleum ether and ethyl acetate. In this manner, there was obtained 13.8 g of 4 benzyloxycarbonyloxy D O BOC L alanyl mandelic acid benzhydryl ester. Yield 88Z . IR Cnujol, cm 1 3380, 1765, 1750, 1700 NMR DMSO d6, 6 value I 1.27 d, 3H, J 7Hz, CH3CH 1.32 s, 9H, C C113 3 4.18 m, 1H, CHNH 5.29 s, 2H, CH2 6.22 s, 1H, fGH 6.82 s, 1H, C 2 7.0 7.7 m, 19H, phenyl 3 In 150 ml of tetrahydrofuran containing 1 of water, there is dissolved 13 g of the product of 2 , and hydrogenation is performed with 1 g of palladium oxide as the catalyst. The catalyst is filtered off, the solvent is distilled off under reduced pressure, and the solid thus obtained is washed with petroleum ether.In this way, 6 g of the title compound was obtained. Yield 87 l IR Cnujol, cm 3450, 3340, 1745, 1660NMR DMSO d6, 6 value 1.28 d, 3H, J 7Hz, CH3CH 1.34 s, 9R, C CH3 3 4.1 m, 1H, CHNH 5.7 s, 1H, fCH 6.95, 7.24 d, d, 4H, J 8Hz, phenyl 7.2, 9.6, 12.8 3br, 3H, 2 x OH, NH 28 146,6 cl. methanol Reference Example 1 Production of 5 methyl 1,3 dioxol 2 on 4 yl methyl 7 D O L alanyl mandelamido 3 E 5 methyl 1,3,4 thiadiazol 2 yl thiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylate hydrochloride In 150 ml of methylene chloride, there are suspended 5 g of O L alanyl D mandelic acid chloride hydrochloride and 3.05 g of 5 methyl l,3 dioxoi 2 on 4 yl methyl 7 amino 3 5 methyl 1,3,4 thiadiazol 2 yl thiomethyla 3 cephem 4 carboxylate. The suspension is cooled to 10 C, a mixture of 2.23 g of triethylamine and 10 ml of methylene chloride is added dropwise over 10 minutes and, after the addition, the mixture is stirred for 20 minutes, then washed three times with saturated aqueous sodium chloride and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The solvent is distilled off under reduced pressure, 100 ml of chloroform is added for dissolving the residue, 2 ml of 5 N hydrogen chloride in isopropyl alcohol to thereby cause crystallization and, after addition of 300 ml of ether, the crystals are collected by filtration and recrystallized from methanol and acetone or from ethanol and acetone to give 5 g of the title compound. IR Cnujol, cm 1 1815, 1780, 1690NMR CD, 2SO, 6 value 1.48 d, 3H, J 7Hz, CHCH3 2.18 s, 3H, dioxole CH3 2.66 s, 3H, thiadiazole CH3 3.62 br. s, 2H, 2 position H2 4.20 m, 1H, CHCH3 4.07, 4.65 d, d, 2H, J 14Hz, 3 position CH2S 5.05 d, 1H, J SHz, 6 position H 5.15 s, 2H, dioxole CH2 5.72 d x d, 1H, J 5 and 9Hz, 7 position H 6.13 s, 1H, CHCONH 7.63 m, 5H, phenyl 8.73 br, 3H, NH3 9.46 d, 1H, J 9Hz, CONH