# Cinnamic acid derivatives, processes for the preparation thereof and pharmaceutical compositions.

## Abstract
Novel cinnamic acid derivatives of the formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A cinnamic acid derivative of the formula EMI21.1 wherein R1 is a lower alkyl group, R2 is hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group, and Y is hydroxymethylene, â lower alkoxymethylene, aminomethylene, hydroxyiminomethylene, a halogenomethylene or carbonyl group, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. 2. The compound according to claim 1, wherein is methyl, R2 is hydrogen atom or ethyl, and Y is hydroxymethylene, ethoxymethylene, aminomethylene, hydroxyimino methlene, chloromethylene or carbonyl. 3. The compound according to claim 1, wherein R1 is methyl, R2 is hydrogen atom, and Y is hydroxymethylene or ethoxymethylene. 4. The compound according to claim 1, which is methyl 4 alpha hydroxy 3 pyridylmethyl cinnamic acid. 5. The compound according to claim 1, which is sodium alpha methyl 4 o ethoxy 3 pyridylmethyl cinnamate. 6. A process for preparing a cinnamic acid derivative of the formula EMI21.2 wherein R1 is a lower alkyl group, Y is hydroxymethylene, a lower alkoxymethylene, amincmethylene, hy roxyimino methylene, a halogenomethylene or carbonyl group, cr a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, which comprises hydrolyzing a compound of the formula EMI22.1 wherein R3 is a lower alkyl, and R1 and Y are as defined above, and optionally converting the product into a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. 7. A process for preparing a cinnamic acid derivative of the formula EMI22.2 wherein R1 is a lower alkyl group, and R3 is a lower alkyl group, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, which comprises reacting a compound of the formula EMI22.3 with a compound of the formula EMI22.4 wherein M is phenyl, and R1 and R3 are as defined above, and optionally converting the product into a pharmaceuticalla acceptable salt thereof. 8. A process for preparing a cinnamic acid derivative of the formula EMI23.1 wherein R1 is a lower alkyl group, a R3 is a lower alkyl group, and a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, which comprises oxidizing a compound of the formula EMI23.2 wherein R1 and R3 are as defined above, and optionally converting the product into a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. 9. A process for preparing a cinnamic acid derivative of the formula EMI23.3 wherein R1 is a lower alkyl group, and R3 is a lower alkyl group, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, which comprises reacting a compound of the formula EMI23.4 wherein R1 and R3 are as defined above, with hydroxylamine, and optionally converting the product into a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. 10. A process for preparing a cinnamic acid derivative oz the formula EMI24.1 wherein R1 is a lower alkyl group, and R3 is a lower alkyl group, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, which comprises reducing a compound of the formula EMI24.2 wherein R1 and R3 are as defined above, and optionally converting the product into a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. 11. A process for preparing a cinnamic acid derivative of the formula EMI24.3 wherein R1 is a lower alkyl group, R3 is a lower alkyl group, and X is a halogen atom, or pharm.aceutically acceptable salt thereof, which comprises reacting a compound of the formula EMI25.1 wherein R1 and R3 are as defined above, with a halogenation agent, and optionally converting the product into a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. 12. A process for preparing a cinnamic acid derivative of the formula EMI25.2 wherein R1 is a lower alkyl group, R3 is a lower alkyl group, and R4 is a lower alkyl group, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, which comprises reacting a compound of the formula EMI25.3 wherein X is a halogen atom, and R1 and R3 are as defined above, with a lower aikanol, and optionally converting the product into a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. 13. A pharmaceutical composition which comprises a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the formula EMI25.4 wherein R1 is a lower alkyl group, R2 is hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group, and Y is hydroxymethylene, a lower alkoxymethylene, aminomethylene, hydroxyiminomethylene, G halogenomethylene or carbonyl group, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier therefor.

## Description
Cinnamic acid derivatives, processes for the preparation thereof and pharmaceutical compositions This invention relates to novel cinnamic acid derivatives, processes for the preparation thereof and pharmaceutical compositions. More particularly, it relates to cinnamic acid derivatives of the formula EMI1.1 wherein RÚ is a lower alkyl group, Rê is hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group, and Y is hydroxymethylene, a lower alkoxymethylene, aminomethylene, hydroxyiininomethylene1 a halogenomethylene or carbonyl group, and processes for the preparation thereof. The novel compounds of the formula I of the present invention show an inhibitory effect upon thromboxaneA2 abbreviated as TxA2 synthetase and hence are useful as a platelet aggregation inhibitor and an antithrombotic agent. It is known that TxA is produced to a large extent by platelets circuiating in the blood or when they adhere to the vascular system. TxAZ is also produced by a variety of other cell and tissue types and exerts a variety of biological actions that mediate or exacerbate pathophysiological processes, such as vasospasm, platelet aggregation sometimes leading to thrombosis, etc. Thus, when synthesis cf TxA2 in vivo is inhibited, platelet aggregation will be prevented.The compounds of the present invention have excellent TjA2 synthesis inhibitory activity and hence are useful as a platelet aggregation inhibitor and an anti thrombotic agent. The compounds of the present invention include compounds of the formula I wherein RI is a lower alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, such as methyl, ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl, or butyl Rê is hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, such as methyl, ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl, or butyl and Y is hydroxymethylene, a lower alkoxymethylene having 2 to 5 carbon atoms e.g. methoxymethylene, ethoxymethylene, n propoxymethylene, isopropoxymethylene, n butoxymethylene or isobutoxymethylene , aminomethylene, hydroxyiminomethylene, a halogenomethylene e.g. fluoromethylene, chloromethylene, or bromoinethylene , or carbonyl group. Preferred compounds are the compounds of the formula I wherein R1 is methyl, R2 is hydrogen atom or ethyl, and Y is hydroxymethylene, ethoxymethylene, or chloromethylene. More preferred compounds are the compound of the formula I wherein R1 is methyl, R2 is hydrogen atom, and Y is ethoxymethylene. In the compounds I of the present invention, when Y is a substituted methylene group, such as hydroxymethylene, a lower alkoxymethylene, aminomethylene, or a halogenomethylene, there are present two optical isomers wherein the carbon atom in the methylene group is an asymmetric carbon atom. The present invention includes these optical isomers as well as a racemic mixture thereof. The compounds I of the present invention can be prepared by various processes. For instance, the conlpounds I wherein Rê is hydrogen atom can be prepared by the following Process A Process A EMI3.1 wherein R is a lower alkyl, and R and Y are as defined above. The compounds I wherein R2is a lower alkyl group can be prepared by the following Processes B to G Process B EMI3.2 wherein M is phenyl, and R1 and R3 are as defined above.Process C EMI3.3 wherein R1 and R3 are as defined above. Process D EMI3.4 wherein RÚ and R are as defined above. Process E EMI4.1 wherein RÚ and R are as defined above. Process F EMI4.2 wherein X is a halogen atom, and R1 and R3 are as defined above.EMI4.3 wherein R4 is a lower alkyl group, and RÚ and R are as defined above. The above processes are explained in more detail below.Process A The hydrolysis of the compounds II can be carried out by treating it with an alkali in a suitable solvent. The alkali includes preferably alkali metal hydroxides such as sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, which are usually used in the form of an aqueous solutionThe solvent includes, for example, methanol, ethanol, tetra hydrofuran, dioxane, isopropanol, mcnoglyme, or a mixture of one or more of these solvents. The reaction is preferably carried out at a temperature of 20 to ,C C. Process B The compounds I a can be prepared by reacting a compound of the formula III with a Wittig reagent of the formula IV . The reaction is readily carried out in a suitable solvent. The solvent includes, for example, chloroform, methylene chloride, tetrahydrofuran, ether, or the like. The reaction is preferably carried out at a temperature of 10 to 200C. process C The compounds I b can be prepared by oxidizing a compound of the formula I a . The oxidation reaction is carried out by oxidizing the compound I a with an oxidizing agent in a suitable solvent. The oxidizing agent includes, for example, barium manganate, active manganese dioxide, potassium permanganate, or the like. The solvent includes chloroform, methylene chloride, tetrahydrofuran, or the like. The reaction is preferably carried out at a temperature of 20 to 60 C. Process D The compounds I c can be prepared by reacting a compound of the formula I b with hydroxylamine. The reaction is readily carried out in a suitable solvent. The solvent includes methanol, ethanol, tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, or the like. The reaction is preferably carried out at a temperature of 20 to 700C. Process E The compounds I d can be prepared by reducing a compound of the formula I c . The reduction of the compound I c is done with a metal and an acid. The metal includes, for example, zinc, iron, tin, or the like, and the acid includes, for example, acetic acid, propionic acid, hydrochloric acid, diluted sulfuric acid, or the like. In this reaction, the acid can also be used as a solvent, and hence, it is not necessarily required to use any additional solvent. The reaction is preferably carried out at a temperature of 30 to 1000C, particularly 70 to 1000C. Process F The compounds i e can be prepared by reacting a compound of the formula I a with a halogenating agent. The halogenating agent includes, for example, thionyl chloride, phosphorus oxychloride, phosphorus pentachloride, or the like, which may also function as a solvent. The reaction is preferably carried out at a temperature cf 20 to SOOC. Process G The compounds I f can be prepared by reacting a compound of the formula I e with a lower alkanol. The lower alkanol includes, for example, methanol, ethanol, n propanol, isopropanol, n butanol, isobutanol, or the like which may also function as a solvent. The reaction is preferably carried out at a temperature of a boiling point cf the solvent. The compounds I of the present invention have excellent antithromboiic activity as mentioned hereinbefore.For example, when prophylactic effect of a test compound against arachidonic acid induced pulmonary embolism is estimated by Kohler et al. s method, said effect of cL methyl 4 ck hydroxy 3 pyridylmethyl cinnamic acid and sodium alpha methyl 4 alpha ethoxy 3 pyridylmethyl cinnamate of the present invention is more than 2 times as strong as that of 3 4 3 pyridylmethyl phenyl 2 methyLacrylic acid hydrochloride described in Journal of Medicinai Chemistry vol. 24,No. 10, page 1149 1155 1981 . Moreover, the compounds of the present invention show low toxicity. For example, sodium ct methyl 4 J ethoxy 3 pyridylmethyl cinnamate of the present invention has only about half of the toxicity of sodium salt of the above known compound i.e. sodium 3 i4 3 pyridylmethyI phenyl 2 methyl acrylate. Hence, the compounds I of the invention are useful as an antithrombotic agent for prophylaxis and treatment of various thromboses, such as peripheral artery thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, coronary obstruction, myocardial infarction, cerebral infarction, fugitive cerebral ischemia, etc. The compounds I of the present invention can be used as a medicine in the form of either a free base or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. The salt includes, for example, inorganic acid addition salts such as hydrochloride, hydrobromide, sulfate, nitrate, etc. and organic acid addition salts such as methanesulfonate, succinate, maleate, etc., and turther alkali metal salts such as sodium salt, potassium salt, lithium salt, etc. When the compounds I or salts thereof are used as a medicine, they can be administered in oral or parenteral route. For oral administration, they are usually used in the form of a solid preparation, such as tablets, pills, powders, capsules, or granules, cr a liquid preparation, such as solutions or suspensions. hor parenteral administration, they are usually used in the form of an injection. These preparations can be prepared by conventional methods using various conventional pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or diluents. The daily dose of the compound I or a salt thereof may vary depending on the administration route, the age, weight or conditions of patients, and the severity of diseases to be treated. In general, however, a daily dose of said compound I or a salt thereof may be about 0.01 to 100 mg kg day, and a preferred dose thereof for oral administration may be 0.1 to 100 mg kg day, especially 1 to 50 mg kg day. The present invention is illustrated by the following Experiment, Examples and Reference Example, but should not be construed to be limited thereto. Experiment 1 Prophylactic effect of the compounds against pulmonary embolism induce by arachidonic acid in mice was tested by the method of Kohler et al. cf. Kohler et al.,Wedding Ellenvogen Thrombosis, 9, pages 67 80, 1976 . LMethod ddY male mice weighing about 20 kg, one group 8 10 mice were fasted one night, and to the animals, test compounds 30 mg 0.25 CC 20 ml kg were orally acminis tered. After one hour, arachidonic acid 70 mg 10 ml saline solution kg was intravenously administered. Aster the intravenous administration of arachidonic acid, the mice had difficulty in breathing and lay on their stomach without moving and thereafter recovered and started to move. The time from having had difficulty in breathing and laying till starting to move was counted as a recovery time. When the test animal was died, the longest recovery time during the test was counted. The shortening rate of the recovery time was calculated by the following formula for showing the effect of the test compcunds.The test compound was evaluated as when the shortening rate was less than 20 and evaluated as when it was from 2G 8 to less than 50 and evaluated as when it was more than 50 . Average recovery time in administra Shortening rate of tion group recovery time 1 x 100 Average recovery time in non adminis tration groupThe test results are shown in Table 1. Table 1EMI10.1 tb SEP Test SEP ccmpounds SEP Evalu tb SEP tion tb alpha Methyl 4 alpha hydroxy 3 pyridylmethyl cinnamic tb acid SEP hydrochlorid SEP tb Sodium SEP alpha methyl 4 alpha ethoxy 3 pyridylmethyl tb cinnamate SEP tb Sodium SEP alpha methyl 4 alpha methoxy 3 pyridylmethyl tb cinnamate SEP tb Sodium SEP alpha methyl 4 alpha n propoxy 3 pyridylmethyl tb cinnamate SEP tb Sodium SEP alpha methyl 4 alpha n propoxy 3 pyridylmethyl tb cinnamate SEP tb alpha Methyl 4 nicotinoylmethylcinnamic SEP acid SEP tb hydrochloride SEP tb known SEP compound tb 3 4 3 pyridylmethyl phenyl 2 methacrylic SEP tb acid SEP hydrochloride SEP SEP i SEP tb Example 1 To a solution of 4 alpha hydroxy 3 pyridylmethyl benzaldehyde 852 mg in chloroform 25 ml is added 1 ethoxycarbonyl ethylidene triphenylphosphorane 1.76 g and the mixture is allowed to stand at room temperature for one day. After the reaction, chloroform is distilled off under reduced pressure, and the residue is purified by silica gel column chromatography eluent chloroform and recrystallized from benzene n hexane to give ethyl alpha methyl 4 alpha hydroxy 3 pyridylmethyl cinnamate 1.13 gr yield 95.3 t as colorless prisms. m.p. 148 1490C. Mass m e 297 M IR Nujol cm 3125, 1697. Example 2 Ethyl alpha methyl 4 alpha hydroxy 3 pyridylmethyl cinnamate 1.49 g is dissolved in chloroform 50 ml , and thereto is added barium manganate 2.9 g . The mixture is retluxed with stirring for one hour. After the reaction, inorganic materials are filtered off, and chloroform. solution is concentrated under reduced pressure to give ethyl methyl 4 nicotinoylcinnamate 1.49 g, yield quantitative as pale yellow sticky oily substance. Mass m e 295 M IR Liquid cm 1 1703, 1658. Example 3 To a solution of ethyl alpha methyl 4 nicotinoyl cinnamate 1.48 g in ethanol 30 ml is added hydroxylamine hydrochloride 6 C mg , and the mixture is refluxed with stirring for one hour. After the reaction, ethanol is distilled off under reduced pressure, and the residue is extracted with chloroform. The extract is washed with saturated aqeuous sodium hydrogen carbonate solution and saturated saline solution successively, and then dried. The chloroform is distilled off under reduced pressure, and the residue is crystallized from isopropanol n hexane to give ethyl alpha methyl 4 hydroxyimino 3 pyridylmethyl cinnamate 1.28 g, yield 82.5 j as colorless crystals. Mass m e 310 M IR Nujol cm 2400 2800, 1700. Example 4 To a solution of ethyl A methyl 4 i hydroxyimino 3 pyridylmethyl cinnamate 1.55 g in acetic acid 15 ml is added zinc powder 3 g , and the mixture is stirred at 80 C for 3G minutes. After the reaction, chloroform 50 ml is added to the reaction mixture, and inorganic materials are filtered off. The chloroform layer is washed with 5 aqueous ammonia and dried. Chloroform is distilled off under reduced pressure, and the residual crysals are recrystallized from benzene n hexane to give ethyl alpha methyl 4 alpha amino 3 pyridylmethyl cinnamate 1.15 g, yield 77.7 as colorless plates. m.p. 85 88CC. Mass m e 296 M IR Nujol cm 1 3360, 1690. The ethyl cC ethyl 4 ot amino 3 pyridylmethyl cinnamate obtained above is treated with 10 ethanolic hydrogen chloride solution and then recrystallized from ethanol to give ethyl alpha methyl 4 alpha amino 3 pyridylmethyl cinnamate dihydrochloride as colorless crystals. m.p. 229 2400C. IR Nujol cm 1 2400 2700, 1700 Elementary analysis for C18H20N2O2.2HCl. H2O Calcd C,58.38 H,6.26 N,7.57 Cl,19.15 Found C,58.23 H,6.01 N,7.55 Cl,18.91 Example 5 Ethyl alpha methyl 4 hydroxy 3 pyridy1methyl cinnamate 4.43 g is added to thionyl chloride 50 ml , and the mixture is refluxed with stirring for one hour. After the reaction, excess thionyl chloride is distilled otf under reduced pressure, and the residue is crystallized from ethar.ol diethyl ether to give ethyl alpha methyl 4 alpha chloro 3 pyridylmethyl cinnamate hydrochloride 4.88 g as colorless needles. m.p. 159 1620C. IR Nujol cm 2300 2600, 1703. Example 6 Ethyl alpha methyl 4 alpha chloro 3 pyridylmethyl cinnamate 3.16 g is dissolved in ethanol 30 ml , and the mixture is refluxed with stirring for 5 hours. After the reaction, ethanol is distilled off under reduced pressure, and the residue is extracted with chloroform. The extract is washed with saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate solution and saturated saline solution successively, and dried. The chloroform is distilled off under reduced pressure to give ethyl alpha methyl 4 alpha ethoxy 3 pyridylmethyl cinnamate 3.24 g as pale brown sticky oily substance. Mass m e 325 M IR CHCl3 cm 1 1705. To a solution of the product obtained above in ethanol 30 ml is added a solution of potassium hydroxide 2.81 g in water 20 ml , and the mixture is stirred at room temperature overnight. After the reaction, the reaction mixture is adjusted to pH 4 with 10 hydrochloric acid and then extracted with chlorotons. The extract is dried and chloroform is distilled off under reduced pressure to give ot methyl 4 alpha ethoxy 3 pyridylmethyl cinnamic acid 2.67 gj as brown oily substance. Mass m e 297 M IR CHCl3 cm 1 1682. Moreover, to a solution of the free carboxylic acid obtained above in ethanol 20 mli is added 1N sodium hydroxide 9 ml , and the mixture is concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue is crystallized fron isopropanol to give sodium alpha methyl 4 alpha ethoxy 3 pyridyl methyl cinnamate 2.39 g as pale yellow crystals. m.p. 250 C, NMR D2O 1.15 t, J 7 Hz, 3H , 1.92 d, J 2 Hz, 3H , 3.42 , J 7 Hz, 3H , 5.38 s, 1H , 7.0 7.7 m, 7H , 8.1 8.3 m, 2H . Example 7 A solution of ethyl alpha methyl 4 alpha chloro 3 pyridyl methyl cinnamate 632 mg in methanol 20 ml is refluxed with stirring for 8 hours. After the reaction, the reaction mixture is concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue is treated with saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate solution and extracted with chloroform. The chloroform extract is dried and distilled off under reduced pressure. The resulting ethyl d methyl 4 i methoxy 3 pyridylmethyl cinnam.ate is dissolved in ethanol 20 ml , and to the mixture is added a solution of potassium hydroxide 850 mg in water 7 ml , and the mixture is refluxed with stirring for 8 hours. After the reaction, ethanol is distilled off under reduced pressure, and to the residue is added water, and the aqueous solution is adjusted to pH 7 with diluted hydrochloric acid and extracted with chloroform. The aqueous layer is adjusted to pH 4 and extracted with chloroform. The chloroform extracts are combined and dried. Chicroform is distilled ozi under reduced pressure, and the residue is solidified from diethyl ether to give alpha methyl 4 alpha methoxy 3 pyridylmethyl cinnamic acid 435 mg as colorless powder. Mass m e 283 M IR Nujol cm 1680. To a solution of the free carboxylic acid obtained above in methanol 10 ml is added 1N aqueous sodium hdyroxide 1.6 ml , and the mixture is concentrated under reduced pressure, and the residue is crystallized from isopropanol diethyl ether to give sodium j methyl 4 methoxy 3 pyridylmethyl cinnamate 332.5 mg as pale yellow powder. m.p. 2600C. NMR D2O 1.94 d, J 2 Hz, 3H , 3.29 s, 3H , 5.34 s, 1H , 7.1 7.9 m, 7H , 8.3 8.6 m, 2H . Example 8 A solution of ethyl alpha methyl 4 alpha chloro 3 pyridyl methyl cinnamate 632 mg in n propar,ol 20 ml is refluxed with stirring for 5 hours. After the reaction, to the reaction mixture containing ethyl methyl 4 o n propoxy 3 pyridylmethl cinnamate is added a solution of potassium hydroxide 850 mg in a mixture 20 ml of ethanol water 1 1 , and the mixture is refluxed with stirring for 4 hours. After the reaction, the mixture is adjusted to pfl 4 with 3N hydrochloric acid, and then the solvent is distilled off under reduced pressure. The residue is extracted with chloroform, and the chloroform layer is dried.Chloroform is distilled off under reduced pressure to give alpha methyl 4 alpha n propoxy 3 pyridylmethyl acinnamic acid 610 mg . Mass m e 311 M IR CHCl3 cm 1688. To a solution of the free carboxylic acid obtained above in methanol 10 ml is added 1N aqueous sodium hdyroxide 2 ml , and the mixture is concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue is crystallized from ethanol diethyl ether to give sodium alpha methyl 4 alpha n propoxy 3 pyridylmethyl cinnamate 400 mg as pale yellow powdery crystals. m.p. 259 263 C. decomp. NMR D2O 0.85 t, J 7 Hz, 3H , 1.1 1.85 m, 2H , 2.18 d, J 2 Hz, 3H , 3.36 t, z 7 hz, 2H , 5.43 s, 1H , 7.0 7.9 m, 7H , 8.3 8.7 m, 2H . Elementary analysis for C19 H20O3NNa. H2O Calcd C,66.65 H,6.18 N,4.09 Found C,67.34 H,6.08, N,3.87 Example 9 In the same manner as described in Example 8, ethyl alpha methyl 4 alpha chloro 3 pyridylmethyl cinnamate 632 mg and isopropanol 20 ml are treated to give ethyl methyl 4 alpha isopropoxy 3 pyridylmethyl cinnamate 1670 mg .This compound is further treated in the same manner as described in Example 8 to give sodium alpha methyl 4 alpha iso propoxy 3 pyridylmethyl cinnamate 420 mg . m.p. 260 C. NMR D2O 1.15 t, J 6 Hz, 6H , 1.96 d, J 2 Hz, 3H , 3.3 3.9 m, 1H , 5.55 s, 1H , 7.1 7.9 m, 7H , 8.3 8.6 m, 2H . Elementary analysis for C19H20O3NNa. H2O Calcd C,66.65 H,6.18 N,4.09 Found C,67.30 H,6.07 N,4.24 Example 10 Ethyl alpha methyl 4 alpha hidroxy 3 pyridylmethyl cinnamate 700 mg is dissolved in a mixture of ethanol tetrahydrofuran 2 1 15 ml and thereto is added 1N aqueous sodium hydroxide 7.5 ml , and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for one hour and further at 600C for 2.5 hours. After the reaction, conc. hydrochloric acid 2 ml is added to the reaction mixture, and the solvent is distilled off under reduced pressure. The residue is added to isopropanol 30 ml , and inorganic materials are filtered off, and thereafter, isopropanol is distilled off under reduced pressure.The crystalline residue is recrystallized from isopropanol ethanol diethyl ether to give alpha methyl 4 alpha hydroxy 3 pyridylmethyl cinnamic acid hydrochloride 576 mg, yield 80 as colorless needles. m.p. 191 193 C. Mass m e 269 M IR Nujol cm 1 1700, 1623. Example 11 To a solution of ethyl alpha methyl 4 nicotinoylmethyl cinnamate 1.24 g in ethanol 20 ml is added 1N aqueous sodium hydroxide 13 ml , and the mixture is stirred at 70cc for 1.5 hour. After the reaction, conic. hydrochloric acid 3.5 ml is added to the reaction mixture, and the mixture is concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue is crystallized from water to give alpha methyl 4 nicotinoylmethyl cinnamic acid hydrochloride 1.03 g, yield 80.5 as pale yellow crystals. m.p. 233 236 C. Mass m e 267 M IR Nujol cm 1 3075, 2700 2300, 1700, 1658. Example 12 To a solution of ethyl i methyl 4 z amino 3 pyridyl methyl cinnamate 296 mg in ethanol 10 ml is added a solution of potassium hydroxide 2G0 mg in water 2 ml , and the mixture is refluxed with stirring for 1.5 hours. After the reaction, the reaction mixture is acidified with 10 ethanolic hydrogen chloride solution, and the solvent is distilled off under reduced pressure. The residue is desalted with a non polar porous resin Diaion HP 20 , manufactured by Mitsubishi Chemical Ind.Ltd., Japan , and then treated with 10 ethanolic hydrogen chloride solution. The product is crystallized from isopropanol diethyl ether to give alpha methyl 4 alpha amino 3 pyridylmethyl cinnamic acid hydrochloride 225 mg, yield 66 as colorless crystals. m.p. 264 266 C. decomp. Mass m e 268 M IR Nujol cm 1 2500 2750, 1710. Example 13 To a solution of ethyl alpha methyl 4 alpha hydroxyimino 3 pyridylmethyl cinnamate 620 mg in ethanol 10 ml is added a solution of potassium hydroxide t337 mg in water 2 ml , and the mixture is refluxed with stirring for 2 hours.After the reaction, 10 hydrochloric acid 4 g is added to the reaction mixture, and the solvent is distilled off under reduced pressure. The residue is desaited with a non poiar porous resin Diaion HP 20 , manufactured by MitsubishiChemical Ind. Ltd., Japan , and treated with 10 ethanclic hydrogen chloride solution, and then crystallized from isopropanol diethyl ether to give o methyl 4 hydroxyimino 3 pyridylmethyl cinnamic acid hydrochloride 595 mg, yield 93.3 k as colorless crystals. m.p. 239 247 C. decomp. Mass m e 282 M IR Nujol cm 3080 3300, S5GO 2800, 1688. Reference Example 1 Magnesium 146 mg is suspended in tetrahydrofuran . 8 ml , and thereto is added dibromethane 3 drops under argon stream. To the suspension is added dropwise a solution of p bromobenzaldehyde diethylacetal 780 mg in tetrahydrofuran 2 ml , and the mixture is refluxed with stirring for one hour to prepare a Grignard reagent. To the reagent thus prepared is added drcpwise a solution of 3 formylpyridine 215 mg in tetrahydrofuran 2 ml with stirring under cooling, and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. After the reaction, benzene is added to the reaction mixture, and the mixture is treated with 10 aqueous ammonium chloride solution. The organic layer is separated, washed with saturated aqueous saline solution, and dried. The organic layer is concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue is treated with 10 u ethanolic hydrogen chloride solution and crystallized from ethanol diethyl ether. The crystals hydrochloride are treated with a saturated aqueous sodium carbonate solution, and extracted with chloroform. Chloroform is distilled off under reduced pressure, and the resulting crystalline residue is recrystallized from benzene n hexane to give 4 alpha hydroxypyridylmethyl benzaldehyde 295 mg, yield 69.2 as pale yellow prisms. m.p. 101 105 C. Mass m e 213 M IR Nujol cm 1 3150, 1695.