# Hydraulic brake.

## Abstract
A hydraulic brake is provided for applying a braking force on the shaft 1 of a water wheel or a wind mill when a braking effect is required such as when a load driven by the shaft varies. The brake comprises a rotatable impeller 2 mounted on said shaft 1 and a stationary impeller 8 disposed opposite the rotatable impeller to form an impeller portion X into which an operating fluid is introduced through a control valve 9 . The opening degree of the valve 9 is controlled in response to the speed of rotation of the shaft generating centrifugal force.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An hydraulic brake adapted to apply a braking force to a rotating shaft 1 when the rotational speed is increased beyond a predetermined value, characterized in that said brake comprises a rotatable impeller 2 mounted on said shaft a stationary impeller 8 disposed opposite said rotatable impeller to constitute an impeller portion X which is adapted to retain an operating fluid therein and a means for controlling the volume of said operating liquid within said impeller portion. 2. An hydraulic brake as claimed in claim 1 characterized in that said means for controlling the volume of operating fluid varies said volume in response to variations in the rotational speed of said shaft 1 . 3. An hydraulic brake as claimed in claim 2 characterised in that said control means comprises an outer flange 4 associated with said rotatable impeller 2 so as to be rotatable with said impeller, said flange being provided with an annular groove 3 for retaining a ring of fluid formed by centrifugal force a fluid conduit 6 communicating said ring of fluid with said impeller portion a fluid discharge port means 11 in said impeller portion and a valve 9 responsive to the rotational speed of said shaft and Wisposed in said fluid conduit. 4. An hy raul c brake as claimed in claim 3 characterized in that said valve comprises a valve body 9a normally urged toward a valve seat by a spring means 13 such as to close the valve until the rotational speed of said shaft reaches a predetermined value which is pre set by adjusting said spring means. 5. An hydraulic brake as claimed in claim 4 characterized in that said valve body 9a is adapted to receive a hydraulic pressure from said ring of fluid so as to be urged against said spring means thereby varying the opening degree of said valve as the rotational speed of said shaft increases beyond said predetermined value. 6. An hydraulic brake as claimed in claim 4 characterized in that said valve body 29a is coupled with a governor 23 including said spring means, said governor retracting said valve body 29a from the valve seat 29b in response to an increase in the rotational speed of said shaft. 7. A water wheel apparatus for recovering fluid energy characterized by comprising a water wheel 35 disposed in a fluid stream and mounted on a rotatable shaft 31 and a hydraulic brake A adapted to apply a braking force to said shaft, said brake including a rotatable impeller 21 mounted on said shaft so as to be rotatable therewith a stationary impeller 8 disposed opposite said rotatable impeller so as to form an impeller portion X adapted to retain an operating fluid and a means for controlling the volume of said operating fluid in said impeller portion in response to variations in the rotational speed of said shaft.

## Description
HYDRAULIC BRAKE The present invention relates to a hydraulic brake and more particularly to a hydraulic brake which is suitable for controlling the rotational speed of a water wheel or wind mill. In general, a water wheel or a wind mill is employed to utilize and recover fluid energy in order to provide power to a load. When the magnitude of the load varies, the rotational speed of the water wheel or wind mill is affected.For instance, when the magnitude of the load is decreased, the water wheel or wind mill is rotated faster because the flowing energy is usually unchanged over a certain period.Therefore, it has been necessary to control, limit or maintain such rotational speed of the water wheel or wind mill to allow for cases when the magnitude of the load varies.To such end, a flow control valve accompanied by a regulating means has been disposed upstream of the wheel. Hereinafter, the term wheel is employed for convenience to mean a water wheel or wind mill. The re gulating means comprises, for example, an actuator for actuating the flow control valve and a sensor sensing the rotational speed so as to determine the degree of required operation by the actuator, and such regulating means has been of a relatively large size which has made it expensive and has required a large space for installation. Accordingly, it has been desired to have a regulating means which is more compact and economical for controlling and maintaining the rotational speed ofwthe wheel, regardless of variations in the magnitude of the load. It is an object of the present invention to provide a speed control means for controlling the revolutional speed of the wheel above mentioned. It is a further object of the present invention to make the construction of the speed control means simple. It is still a further object of the present invention to enable the control effect of the speed control means to be enhanced as the revolutional speed of the wheel is increased. Yet another object of the present invention is to provide a water wheel associated with a speed control means. The above objects are accomplished by a hydraulic brake constructed in accordance with the present invention. The hydraulic brake according to the present invention comprises a rotatable impeller and stationary impeller disposed opposite each other to form an impeller portion in a manner similar to that of a so called fluid coupling and is adapted to introduce hydraulic liquid between the impellers. Therefore, if the rotational impeller is rotated with the presence of hydraulic fluid between the impellers, a hydraulic torque is generated and, thus, a braking force is applied to the rotation of the rotatable impeller. The braking force of the above construction naturally depends on the volume of the fluid contained within the impeller portion and, therefore, the braking force is capable of being regulated by controlling the amount of fluid fed into the impeller portion. The regulation of the fluid being fed is preferably arranged so that fluid is not supplied to the impeller portion until the rotational speed reaches a predetermined level whereby no braking force is generated during the operation of the wheel which is rotated under the predetermined level of speed, and the braking force is produced as the rotational speed is increased beyond the predetermined level. The present invention will becomë clear when the detailed description is reviewed in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, a brief explanation of which is summarized below. graph ho ng Fig. 1 is a graph inging the relationship in the hydraulic brake betweenr, jraking power and the amount of fluid in the impeller portion Fig. 2 is a cross sectional view of a first embodiment according to the present invention Fig. 3 is a graph illustrating the power curves of the hydraulic brake according to the present invention relative to the rotational speed Fig. 4 shows a second embodiment of the hydraulic brake according to the present invention and Fig. 5 shows a water wheel apparatus incorporating the hydraulic brake shown in Fig. 2. Before explaining the embodiments of the present invention, the relationship between the amount of fluid within the impeller portion and the braking force is briefly touched upon. Such relationship is illustrated in Fig. 1 and the curve shown therein is represented by the equation P KN3D5 in which P braking force N rotational speed number of revolutions per minute D diameter of impeller K constant depending on fluid volume within impeller portion. Accordingly, if the fluid volume is varied, the constant is changed so that the braking force P is regulated.The present invention relies on the phenomenon described above. Reference is now made to Fig. 2 wherein an embodiment of a hydraulic brake according to the present invention is schematically illustrated in a cross section. A rotatable shaft 1 adapted to be driven by the wheel has attached at the end thereof a rotatable impeller 2. A stationary impeller 8 is stationarily mounted on the inner side wall of a housing 7 in opposing relation to the rotatable impeller 2 so as to compose a main part X of the hydraulic brake similar, in construction, to a so called hydraulic coupling.For convenience, the main part is hereinafter referred to as an impeller portion X . The housing 7 includes a portion 15 which serves as an oil sump. The rotatable impeller 2 comprises a peripheral flange 4 at the outer peripheral portion thereof and the flange 4 is so configured as to form an annular groove 3 in which an oil or fluid ring is produced by a centrifugal force when the impeller 2 is driven to rotate while immersing the flange 4 partially in the oil at the sump 15. Also, a rotor casing 10 is attached to the rotatable impeller 2 so as to enclose the stationary impeller 8 therein without interfering with the relative rotation therebetween. A flow control valve 9 is disposed in the housing 7 and is adapted to regulate the amount of oil 14 in the impeller portion X of the hydraulic brake.The oil 14 used for braking is introduced into the impeller portion Xn by means of a scoop tube 6 through the valve 9. A valve body 9a of the valve 9 is normally urged to close the valve by a spring 13. Also, the valve body 9a is adapted to receive a hydraulic pressure from a rear chamber 12 at the side opposite the spring 13. The rear chamber 12 is coupled with the oil ring in the flange groove 3 through a scoop tube 5 supplied with a pressurized oil from the oil ring formed within the groove 3, the pressure being generated by the centrifugal force caused by the rotation. Therefore, the position of the valve body 9a is determined by the spring 13 and the hydraulic pressure in the rear chamber 12 derived from the rotation of the flange groove 3. In addition to the valve 9, a discharge port or ports 11 are provided in the peripheral wall of the rotor casing 10. The amount of oil 14 in the impeller portion is, thus, regulated by the valve 9 and the discharge port or ports 11 and this amount determines the magnitude of the braking force. The spring 13 is adjustable by an adjusting head 16 threadably engaged in the valve 9 so as to set the pressure value in the chamber 12 for commencement of the opening of the valve 9 or movement of the valve body 9a away from a valve seat 9b. The head 16 is fixed in place by a lock nut 17 after the adjustment and is covered by a cap 18. In operation, when the revolutional speed of the shaft 1 is varied, the pressure in the fluid taken out from the groove 3 through the scoop tube 5 also varies. If the spring 13 has been adjusted so as to be stronger than a certain predetermined pressure in the rear chamber 12, the valve 9 will be kept closed until the pressure in the rear chamber 12 reaches the predetermined pressure whereby the oil 14 in the impeller portion X does not exist and, thus, no braking force is produced during the period in which the pressure in the rear chamber 12 is below the predetermined pressure.However, when the speed of the rotation of the shaft becomes faster so that the hydraulic pressure in the rear chamber 12 is raised higher than the predetermined pressure, the hydraulic pressure in the rear chamber 12 overcomes the force of the spring 13 to open the valve 9 whereby the fluid or oil is introduced as the oil 14 into the impeller portion X through the scoop tube 6. The amount of oil 14 introduced is stabilized after balancing the amount fed to the impeller portion through the scoope tube 6 and the valve 9 and the amount discharged from the discharge port s 11 so that the braking force corresponding to the amount of oil 14 is applied to the shaft 3. As the rotational speed of the shaft becomes faster, the opening degree of the valve becomes larger.If the valve 9 is fully opened, the oil 14 within the impeller portion of the impellers 2 and 8 will completely fill the impeller portion.Further increase in the speed of the shaft will produce a higher braking force in proportion to the cubic multiplication of the rotational speed number of revolutions per minute . The operating condition of the hydraulic brake explained above is illustrated in Fig. 3 with respect to the relationship between the rotational speed, i.e. number of revolutions per minute in abscissa and the braking power applied to the rotatable shaft in ordinate in a case where the hydraulic brake is directly coupled to the rotatable shaft of the wheel. In general, in the water wheel or wind mill, the rotational speed varies as the input to the load varies and such relationship is shown in Fig. 3 as represented by the curve a provided that the water head or wind pressure is kept constant. Incidentally, in Fig. 3, N1 rotational speed number of revolutions per minute at the rated power N2 rotational speed number of revolutions per minute where the net input power to the load becomes zero and Nr rotational speed number of revolutions per minute without any restraint.On the other hand, the performance curve of the hydraulic brake shown in Fig. 2 is illustrated as the curve n ssll inFig. 3. From this curve w it may be understood that the rotational speed number of revolutions per minute may be controlled for any power input to the load within a range between N1 and N2 wherein N1 is as defined above i.e. the number of revolutions per minute at the rated power andN2 is the number of revolutions where curves cur and ss intersect each other and the net input power to the load becomes zero. The point c on the curve nSn represents the condition in a case where the oil 14 completely fills the impeller portion.The vertical length between the curve llAn and ss is the net power to be input to the load and the vertical length between the curve ss and the abscissa corresponds to the braking power consumed in addition to the net power which actually drives the load. In Fig. 4, another embodiment according to the present invention is illustrated in a cross section. In this drawing, parts or portions similar to those of the embodiment shown in Fig. 2 are given the same respective references with prime, and the respective functions thereof are the same as those with the corresponding numerals without prime in Fig. 2. In this embodiment, a flow control valve 29 is employed in place of the valve 9 of the first embodiment. This valve 29 is actuated to control the opening degree by a weight governor 23 which is responsive to the rotational speed of the shaft 1 . The governor 23 comprises spring plates 21 and weights 22 and is coupled to a valve body 29a. The spring plates 21 serve to normally urge the valve body towards a valve seat 29b to thereby close the valve 29.In operation, as the rotational speed of the shaft 1 is increased, the weights 22 are caused to move radially outwardly so as to move the coupled valve body 29a away from the valve seat 29b, thus opening the valve.By proper determination of the initial load on the plate springs 21, the rotational speed at which the valve commences its opening is pre set. Because of the presence of the valve 29 accompanied by the weight governor just explained above, there is no necessity in the second embodiment to have a scoop tube similar to the scoop tube 5 shown in the first embodiment. Referring now to Fig. 5, there is shown a hydraulic generator associated with a hydraulic brake according to the present invention. The hydraulic brake incorporated in this example is designated as A in Fig. 5 and it corresponds to the first embodiment illustrated in Fig. 2. A shaft 31 is rotatably supported by bearings 32 and 33 which are installed in a housing 34. At the lower end of the shaft 31, a water wheel 35 is secured and, at the upper end thereof, the hydraulic brake A is coupled. Between the bearings 32 and 33, a rotor 36 of the generator is mounted on the shaft 31 and a stator 37 of the generator is secured in the housing 34 in opposing relation to the rotor 36. A sealing means such as a mechanical seal 38 is disposed around the shaft 31 between the rotor 36 and the water wheel 35. In the arrangement shown in Fig. 5, water flow is introduced into the housing 34 through an intake 39 in the direction indicated by an arrow F and such water flow causes the water wheel 35 to rotate, whereby generating electric power. In this instance, the hydraulic brake A controls the rotation of the shaft 31 as explained in connection with Figs. 2, 3 and 4. The control of the hydraulic brake A is effected in response to variations in the load.Also, the brake A serves to control the rotational speed of the shaft in case the head imposed on the water wheel 35 varies such as where the rotational speed increases as a result of variation of the head. Accordingly, a steady and stable operation of the hydraulic generator is achieved without the need for a complicated controller as has heretofore been required. Of course, a brake other than A such as that shown in Fig. 4, etc. may also be employed in Fig. 5. Summarizing the above, according to the present invention the following have been realized 1 a braking force is able to be changed over within a certain and relatively wide range of rotational speeds 2 construction of the brake is made simple and any extra power source or signal is not required for generat ing the braking force 3 no sliding portion or contact portion is required whereby a long endurance life and steady operation are expectable and 4 the control point where the braking force is to be initially applied is easily pre set so that no braking force is applied until the rotational speed reaches the pre set value. Whilst the present invention has been explained in detail referring to the specific embodiments, the present invention is not limited to those explained and it may be modified by those skilled in the art within the sprit and scope of the present invention as defined in the Claims appended herewith. For example, in the embodiments illustrated, the volume of the fluid within the impellers portion is regulated by the pressure in response to the rotational speed, control of such volume may also be effected by shifting the position of the inlet port of the scoop tube directly in response to a change in the centrifugal force so that the volume of fluid within the impeller portion may be varied from zero to an amount corresponding to the point lob inFig. 2.