# INTEGRATED AND PROGRAMMABLE PROCESSOR FOR WORD WISE DIGITAL SIGNAL PROCESSING

## Claims
Integrierter programmierbarer Prozessor zur wortweisen Digitalsignalverarbeitung mit folgenden Elementen

## Description
The invention relates to an integrated and programmable processor for word wise digital signal processing, comprising A data processor exhibiting the above elements, is known from US A 4,287,566. The known device is an integrated microcomputer in which a program bus and a data bus are provided on the chip the exchange of program information with the environment is also possible. It is an object of the invention to provide an integrated data processor which offers a wide variety of uses and which allows high speed signal processing. Generally, signal processing means operations which are executed in real time , so that notably each operation must be completed within a fixed time interval. Such signal processing operations are often executed as vector operations, which means the formation of a sum of a series of products in which successive signal values form one of the factors each time. Typically the same operations are continually repeated on successive signal words of a block or series of signal words. However, often other types of operations such are usually executed in an arithmetic and logic unit ALU are also necessary, for example bit wise formation of an OR function, rotation or shifting. The object is achieved in that the invention is characterized in that said first read write memory comprises a first memory module whose address input is connected to the first bus and whose data input is connected to the second bus, and a second memory module whose address input is connected to the second bus and whose data input is connected to the first bus, a third selector comprising for each memory module a corresponding selection module which is connected to each of the two buses, the connection for the control memory comprising an instruction register for storing control information for the control of further components, said instruction register also having a data output connected to said bus connection means. This structure is based on the recognition of the fact that a firm coupling between multiplier element and arithmetic and logic unit is usually open to objection for the execution of a mixture of vector operations and other operations in one program. On the one hand, many vector operations only require the multiplier element. Interjection of the arithmetic and logic unit would then cause a delay. For the execution of many other operations, only the arithmetic and logic unit is required. In that case the interjection of the multiplier element would cause a delay. Therefore, it is better to keep the two operations separate, so that the arithmetic and logic unit and the multiplier element can be optimized as regards function spectrum as well as processing speed. The two bus structure connected to the relevant inputs and outputs in the manner specified increases the flexibility and the processing speed further. For example, for the development of a given program use can now be made of an external control memory which is constructed, for example, as an electrically variable memory NVRAM, RAM, PROM, EPROM or EEPROM . For mass production, however, it will usually be integrated as a programmable read only memory E²PROM, EPROM or read only memory ROM . The latter memories are cheaper for example, a read only memory occupies only very little space on the chip. In addition to the above advantages, data can now be routed in a variety of ways both before and after the relevant operations. Furthermore, Proceedings of the National Electronics Conference, Vol. 29, No. 29, October 1974, pages 416 421, New York, USA, Blankenship LSP 2 programmable signal processor describes certain aspects of the present invention. Here, the word bus is used in a different way, i.e., about everything except a single point to single point interconnection. In the present context, bus is understood to mean an interconnection between at least three stations, with at least two possible information sources and at least two possible information destinations. Furthermore, US A 4,075,704 describes certain aspects of the present invention. Here however, only a single bidirectional bus DPBS column 4, line 18 has been provided, whereas the other buses have the limited capability mentioned in Blankenship. Preferably, each of said first and second memory modules comprises its own address calculation unit. A higher flexibility can thus be achieved. Preferably, said first output comprises retro coupled second accummulator means, including accumulator adder means, whereto there is connected a shift unit for performing selectable shift and reformatting operations on data to be applied to the bus connection means. Thus, the multiplier element allows for a large number of different operations to be performed without requiring the bus connection means the latter may then be operative for a preceding or the next processing operation. Preferably, said first accumulator means comprise a second read write memory which is capable of storing several operands and which comprises triple addressing means in order to allow for the simultaneous execution of a write operation from the arithmetic and logic unit as well as two independent read operations to and from the first and the second bus, respectively. Thus, a local and hence freely accessible processing memory is available to the ALU unit, so that the execution of a wide range of operations is facilitated. Preferably, there are provided further connection means for a further data memory which is constructed as a read only memory and which comprises an address connection to said bus connection means and a selectable data connection to said first and second bus. Such a read only data memory can be advantageously used notably for the storage of coefficient information for said vector operations as regards the desirability of integration or not, the same holds good as for the control memory already described. Preferably, said third input comprises selector means for forming a selectable connection to said first and second bus. The arithmetic and logic unit is capable of performing operations on one or on two operands. Thanks to the latter facility, it is now possible to present this single operand each time on the same input of the arithmetic and logic unit, so thatthe configuration of the latter unit may be simpler. Preferably, there are provided timing means for controlling a first instruction cycle which comprises the following coincident operations Preferably, there is provided a cycle selector which comprises a first state and a second state in order to control in the first state said first instruction cycle and in the second state a second instruction cycle having a length which amounts to half the length of the first instruction cycle, said second instruction cycle comprising the following coincident operations Some further attractive details are specified in the sub claims. The invention will be described in detail hereinafter with reference to the drawings, First a description will be given of a general block diagram of a preferred embodiment, followed by a description of some detailed diagrams and operations, Fig, 1 shows a general block diagram of a data processor in accordance with the invention Fig, 2 illustrates the four types of instructions which can be executed Fig, 3 shows a time diagram for the execution of a standard instruction in a normal cycle Fig. 4 shows a time diagram for the execution of a standard instruction in an accelerated cycle Fig. 5 shows a block diagram of an address calculation unit Fig. 6 illustrates the set of instructions of an address calculation unit Fig. 7 illustrates the shift reformatting unit Fig. 7a shows the functions to be realized therein Fig. 8 illustrates the arithmetic and logic unit Fig. 9 illustrates the local processing memory Fig. 10 illustrates the serial data output Fig. 11 illustrates the serial data input Fig. 11a illustrates the parallel data input output Fig. 12 illustrates the program status register Figs. 13a, b, c, d illustrate a part of the instruction code Figs. 14,14a illustrate the multiplier element Fig. 1 shows a general block diagram of the data processor in accordance with the invention. The internal connection is realized by a first 16 bit data bus 22 and a second 16 bit data bus 20. The circuit comprises a number of registers, some of which are directly connected to one of the two buses, that is to say elements 24, 26, 34, 46, 48, 50, 56 the latter two elements via a selection element . 70, 72, 74, 88, 100, 104, 106, 118, 120, 124, 126. Element 30 is a program counter which addresses a program memory 28 having a capacity of 512 words of 40 bits which can be loaded into the output register 26. The execution of these instructions will be described in detail hereinafter most bits control further functions in the remainder of the circuit via connections decoders which have been omitted for the sake of simplicity. A 16 bit portion can be applied in parallel to both data buses for one type of instruction. Program counter 13 can be loaded either with 9 bits from the instruction register 26 or with an address from an 8 word stack register 158. The register 24 acts as an interrupt address register and is asymmetrically connected between the two buses i.e. in the same manner as elements 34, 70, 78 to be described hereinafter unidirectionally to the bus 22, bidirectionally to the bus 20 . This restriction is not essential for a long instruction word, the number of different functions to be controlled would be larger so that a more universal connection pattern would be feasible. If desired, the memory 28 is not integrated but constructed as a separate memory in order to facilitate the programming in that case forty additional pins are added to the integrated circuit in order to supply the instruction register 26 with information. Preferably, at least 9 of these forty pins are bidirectionally operative for the supply of an address to the external memory. In a specific embodiment not shown , the latter number is chosen to be 16, so that the width equals that of the data buses. These forty connection pins operate in time multiplex alternately address and data. Element 90 is a data memory which is constructed as a read only memory for 512 words of 16 bits in the present embodiment. If desired, the memory 90 is not integrated but constructed as a separate memory in order to facilitate programming in that case sixteen additional pins are included in the integrated circuit for the supply of information to element 88. Nine of these 16 pins are bidirectionally operative for the supply of an address to the external memory. They are again operative in time multiplex. Furthermore, elements 36, 102 are data memory modules, elements 38, 92, 114 are address calculation units, and elements 66, 78 are selectors for the two buses. Registers 48, 100, 106 are associated with the address calculation means which will be described in detail with reference to Fig. 5. Furthermore, as is apparent some registers for example, 88, 104 46, 72, 74, 34 have selective connections to the two buses. Registers 50, 56 operate as registers which are or are not transparent Element 58 is a 16 x16 bit multiplier element with an associated control register 70. Element 64 is a 40 bit accumulator adder. Element 68 is a 40 bit accumulator register. Element 78 is a bidirectional selector. Element 122 is an arithmetic and logic unit. Element 116 is a memory comprising 3 connections ports which is used as a set of scratchpad or processing memories. Furthermore, element 128 is an input output control element and elements 80, 82, 84, 86, 130, 132 are input output units for communication with the environment. The registers have the following functions Synchronized by a clock which is not separately shown, the data processor is capable of executing up to 10 million instructions per second. This is achieved in that several instructions can be executed in parallel by way of a pipeline organization. The two parallel operating data buses are operative to accelerate the transport. Communication with the environment is provided by powerful I O interface units for serial as well as parallel communication. There are provided three data memories, that is to say two read write memories and one read only memory, each comprising its own address calculation unit. The arithmetic and logic unit 122 has a set of instructions yet to be described. The multiplier element 58 is combined with a 40 bit accumulator 64 68 and a general purpose shift unit 62. The inventors have recognized the fact that in some cases it will be advantageous for one or both buses to have a larger bit width, for example 24 bits. In some cases it will not be necessary to connect all elements to all 24 bit lines. Depending on the circumstances, for given elements this may be restricted to 16 or even 12 bits. Furthermore, in order to save components it will in some cases be permissible to combine the addressing unit of a read only memory and a data memory. Summary of the instruction set. Fig. 2 illustrates the four types of instructions which can be executed. The first two bits indicate the type The first arithmetic instruction controls in parallel an operation in the arithmetic and logic unit, a bus transport via at the most two buses, and at the most three address calculations. The second arithmetic instruction is the counterpart of the first instruction and controls an operation in the multiplier element. The field AIIS OPS or MINS controls the operation, SX DX or SY DY controls the source elements or destination elements on the two buses, respectively, RFILE acts as an address for the local memory 116, and ACUA, ACUB, ACUR are operative or the control of the address processing elements. In the third instruction, the branch instruction, the bits 3 to 18 contain a destination address for the branch. BR indicates the type of brach instruction and COND the condition. The bit positions 2 and 27 to 39 are void. Alternatively, also this instruction may contain the ACU fields recited hereabove, are now also included in these fields in this particular operating mode. In the fourth instruction, direct loading, the field DATA indicates the data to be transported on the bus, and the other fields are operative as in the arithmetic instructions. The details of these instructions will be described hereinafter. Under standard conditions each one word instruction can be executed in 200 ns. With a given program control this can be reduced to 100 ns. This is achieved by elaboration of the pipeline priciple as will be described in detail hereinafter. In this respect Fig. 3 shows a time diagram of a standard 200 ns instruction cycle. The time diagram of an accelerated instruction cycle as shown in Fig. 4 will be described herinafter. Line 200 in Fig. 3 contains the sequence of instruction time intervals having a length of 200 ns. Crossing lines indicate the connections to preceding subsequent intervals. Line 202 shows the operations for the fetching of operands. Block 1 offers time space for any calculation of a read address. Due to the organization of the separate memories 36, 102 and 90, this can be performed in an arbitrary combination of these three memories possibly even in all three memories simultaneously . Furthermore,the relevant memory is read. In as far as a memory serves to supply an operand, in interval block 2 the information on this line of the relevant location of this memory is valid on the output. On line 204 the processing of the data is symbolized. Block 1 offers time space for the transport of the data on one of the two or both transport buses and, whenever applicable, for the actual processing in the multiplier element and or the arithmetic and logic unit. In given circumstances, however, such an operation will not be activated, for example when only a register to register transfer is performed. During block 2 on this line, any data thus obtained is valid on the output of the relevant processing element. Line 206 shows the further output of the data thus formed. Block 1 thereof offers space for the calculation of an address in one of the two or both read write memories. Block 2 offers time space for the transport via one or both buses 20, 22, possibly to a read write memory to this end, an address is then calculated in block 1 of line 206. Thus, between the beginning and the end of an instruction there are three blocks of 200 ns. During the second one of these blocks, however, an address calculation can already be performed for the next instruction. During the third block of this cycle, the processing multiplier element cum accumulator and or arithmetic and logic unit can already be performed for the next instruction. During the execution of an instruction in the described manner, the bit FQR in the program status register PST in the element 34 has the value 0 . A second, faster operating mode will be described later. This memory is addressed by the program counter 30. This counter has the incrementation function address 1 and the constant function address not modified . Furthermore, the following functions can be performed The actual program counter 30 9 bits fulfills the following functions The register stack comprises 8 registers of 9 bits in a last in first out organization, so that a nested structure of at the most 8 levels is permissible among the subroutines interruptions. The read only memory 90 has a capacity of 512 words of 16 bits each the other two modules each have a capacity of 256 words of 16 bits each. The address lengths amount to 9 bits and 8 bits, respectively. The data inputs of the memories 36, 102 are asymmetrically connected to the buses 20, 22. Via selectors, the data outputs are symmetrically connected to the buses, the data being transported via either one or both buses as desired. When the described slow instruction cycle is activated, the output registers 46, 88, 104 are continuously transparent. The address calculation units 38, 92, 41 of the present embodiment are identical, except for their word length of 8 bits and 9 bits, respectively. The address calculation can be coecistent with two arithmetic move instructions and the load immediate instruction the address calculations can thus be equickly executed. The block diagram of such an address calculation unit shown in Fig. 5 comprises the bus 208 one of the two buses 20, 22 in Fig. 1 and also all elements up to the connection 232 for the actual memory matrix cum address decoder. At the input side there are provided three registers The content of these three registers can be retained at the beginning of an interrupt operation for later use during a further operation. Element 214 is an arithmetic and logic unit having a limited bit width and a limited range of operations with respect to element 122 in Fig. 1 . The element 206 is a masking element in which the calculation result of the element 214 can be bit wise conducted or blocked by the content of the masking register 210. The output of the masking element 216 is connected to the A register 212. Furthermore, in the reversing element 218 the bit sequence can be reversed. The result from the element 218 can be stored in the actual address register 230. The latter register can also be filled directly by data on a part of the lines of the 16 bit bus. The masking in the element 216 can be used for cyclically passing through the addresses according to a given modulo value the reversal of the bit sequence is used in given versions of Fourier transform calculations. When a masked value 0 is received in the modulo register 210, the relevant bit position in the register 230 remains unmodified. However, when a value 1 is received in the modulo register 210, the relevant bit position 230 is updated with a new value. In given circumstances the relevant position may have been the subject of a reversing operation. The control of the register 230 in this respect is denoted by a dotted connection. Actually there is provided a control unit which controls the operations described hereinafter. In this respect Fig. 6 shows the set of instructions of the address calculation units. They are controlled by relevant fields in the instruction word C31 33 for the element 38, C34 36 for the element 114, C37 39 for the element 92 this word is present in the already described register 26 . Fig. 6 is divided into two halves the upper half is applicable when the relevant unit has not been selected as the data destination under the control of the fields DX and or DY of the micro instruction word to be described hereinafter. In the opposite case the lower half of the Figure is applicable. The first column shows the mnemonics, the second column the bit pattern, the third to sixth columns the new content for each of the four registers 230, 212, 213, 210 for which BUS means that the register is filled with new data from the bus. A 1 mM means that the address A 1 is masked by the content of the masking register M correspondingly, for example, for A 1, A S and so on. BR means that the bit sequence is reversed. The instruction LALL means that the content of the bus in as far as supplied is bit wise inverted. During the loading of the relevant address calculation unit, with or without an immediate load instruction, the content of the M register 210 does not influence the actual loading of the AR register 230. The bit positions are not reversed either in that case. Multiplication is performed completely in parallel in accordance with the Booth s algorithm described in A signed binary multiplier technique , by A.D. Booth, Q.J. Mech. Appl. Math. 4 1951 , 236 240, and modified as published inter alia in A proof of the modified Booth s algorithm for multiplication , by L.P.Rubinfeld, IEEE Trans.Computers October 1976 , pages 1014 1015. From two 16 bit operands on the outputs of the registers 50, 56 a 32 bit product word is formed in one machine cycle. The multiplier element is constructed so that the most significant bit is operative as having a negative value sign bit . During the processing of operands in multiple precision the less significant parts thereof, therefore, do not comprise a sign bit and the leading bit position must always be filled with a zero. This suppletion itself is described in the previous, non published Netherlands Patent Application 8304186 PHN 10 865 in the name of Applicant. To the output of the element 58 there are connected an accumulator adder 64 and an accumulator register 68, both elements having a width of 40 bits. If necessary, the sign bit in the register 60 most significant bit of a product is copied on more significant bits until a total number of 40 bits is reached. Furthermore Fig. 7 illustrates the shift element 62 in which reformatting operations are also performed. At the top of the Figure, the 40 bits arrive from the accumulator adder 64. The sign extension operation is included in order to avoid an overflow condition as much as possible. This condition arises when the sum becomes too large due to addition of a number of successive numbers having the same sign. This risk is now reduced. On the input of the extractor 400 the most significant bit ACC39 is extended to fifteen more significant bit positions this again is done for the detection of any overflow conditions. In the shift element 400 a 32 bit double length word is extracted from the 55 bits thus received, An operation can thus be performed with double the precision. At the left of the Figure there is shown a register 70 BSR which contains a four bit code bit 0...3 . This code is decoded by the decoder 402. In this respect Fig. 7a shows the sixteen different extraction possibilities the accumulator bits are supplemented by a least significant 0 . Thus, the bits BSR ... 3 with the codes 0000 ... 1111 form sixteen staggered extracts of 32 bits each. The register 70 should be filled at least one instruction cycle before the actual extraction operation. The bits BSR 4, 5 are decoded by the decoder 404 which activates the reformatting device 406. The 32 extracted bits are referred to as E31 ... EO. The values of the bits BSR4, 5 control the following reformatting operation Fig, 8 shows a block diagram of the arithmetic and logic unit 122 and its environment. The blocks 66, 118, 120, 122 are shown in Fig. 1, Block 119 represents a decoder for the field OPS for the instruction, Block 121 represents a decoder for the block AINS of the instruction, Block 125 represents a decoder for the relevant SX, SY, DX, DY fields of the instruction. To the output of the ALU element 122 there is connected a block 123 for the shift and rotation functions which will be described in detail hereinafter. The program status register PST is connected, using decoding elements not shown to the ALU 122 and the shift rotation functions in the block 123. The unit 122 operates in two s complement notation. Flag bits can be formed a higher number would be feasible In the above list logic operations are performed at the bit level. For arithmetical operations, the sign bit or bits is are treated in a specific manner in given circumstances. For the rotation operations, the shifted out bit is added to the operand again at the opposite end. For details of the sub fields of the instruction, reference is made to the Figures 13 a d . The connection of the program status register PST via a selector to the bus connection means is shown in simplified form. Fig. 9 shows details of the structure of the first accumulator means. It will be apparent that the accumulator adder 122 is situated within the ALU. The memory MEM consists of a memory bank for 2 Register 24 is to be loaded from one of the buses and contains an address which is transferred to the program counter 30 at the beginning of an interrupt operation. In this respect reference is made to Fig. 12 which shows the bit wise subdivision of the sixteen bit program status register in element 34 in Fig, 1 . The bits have the following meaning This register forms part of the register bank 34 which comprises three registers. It contains status information and flag bits for communication with the environment. The bits have the following meaning SIXACK denotes the degree of filling of the register 82 with valid information. SIYACK does so for the register 132. SOXACK indicates whether the register 84 is loaded with data. SOYACK serves the same purpose. PIACK a transition from low to high on the This register 32 acts as a hardware instruction counter when it is loaded with the value N, the next instruction is repeated N times. This register is decremented in reaction to the execution of any instruction, while the program counter in the element 30 can be incremented only when the content of register 32 is zero. Such repeating can be advantageously used notably for vector operations. The SOX 84 and SOY 132 connections can output data from the relevant data buses to the environment. To this end, each connection comprises a 16 bit register which can be synchronized by an external clock connection. These registers also receive internal request and enable signals as a synchronization handshake for a filling operation. Both outputs have a presettable counter for indicating the number of bits to be outputted. The SIX 82 and SIY 130 connections can receive data from the environment for output to the relevant data buses. To this end, each connection comprises a serial input shift register which can be synchronized by an external clock connection. The input shift register is connected in parallel to a buffer register for the feeding of the bus. Finally, these registers receive internal request and enable signals as a synchronization handshake for a read operation from the parallel register. There is also provided a presettable counter for controlling the number of bits to be loaded onto the buses in parallel. The PI PO 86 connection provides parallel transport to and from the processor, respectively. To this end, a 16 bit register is provided each time. The additional output connection ADO 80 provides external transfer of data or addresses the latter are calculated in an address calculation unit or in the arithmetic and logic unit. In this case there is provided a register which is to be selectively filled by both buses. These structures will be described in detail hereinafter with reference to some Figures. The set up shown is substantially symmetrical with respect to the two buses. In other situations a less symmetrical set up may be advantageous in order to save parts. This is the last register of the register ban 34 which contains status information concerning the serial connections. The first four bis SILX3...0 of the 16 bits actually the bis SILX is the first bit of this status word contain the word length for the series input shift register of connection SIX code 0000 means a word length of 16 bits and so on, so that finally the code 111 means a word length of 1 bit. The sequence bits SOLX3... the same for the connection SOX, the bits SILY3... the same for the connection SIY, and the bits SOLY3... the same for the connection SOY. The interrupt mechanism External interrupt signals are represented by a low signal on the pin Considering the size of the stack registers, 8 successive interrupt levels can be concurrently nested. The same is applicable to successive interrupt routines. Finally there is provided a reset pin for resetting the Fig. 11a diagrammatically shows the input output structure parallel section . The buses 20 22, a 16 bit selector structure SEL, two parallel registers PI PO, a tristate buffer TRISTBUFF, the external 16 bit bus D15 ... DO, a control unit PIOCONTR, and the control bits PIACK, POACK are shown. The signals Fig. 10 diagrammatically shows one of the two serial output connections. The output register in this case SOX is directly connected to the bus and feeds the output shift register SOXS. The presettable counter COD which can be loaded by the SIOST register is also shown. Output data may be taken up in SOXS only when this register is completely empty determined by the counter content in reaction thereto, SOXACK is set to 1 and new data may be applied SOXRQ 1 indicates a request to the environment and the counter is loaded. The output of the data to the environment commences when the pin SOXEN becomes 1 , synchronization being performed by clock pulses on pin SOX. The tristate buffer TRIST is co controlled by the value SOXEN. After the counter stops counting and no further data is waiting SOACK 1 ,bit SOXRQ is set to 0 so that SOXS and the counter assumes the hold state so that the last bit outputted remains on the pin DOX. When SOXEN becomes 0 , the output circuit DOX assumes the high impedance initial state again. Fig. 11 shows the serial input structure in this case shown for the X bus , comprising register SIX, input shift register SIXS, presettable counter COUN, and control and flag bit positions. When SIX is internally addressed as a data source, the flag SIXACK is set to 0 in the register IOF it is valid for the next processor cycle. Data received in the shift register SIXS is transferred to the register SIX if the counter content indicates that the shift operation has been completed the flag SIXACK then also becomes high in order to indicate the availability of data to the processor. At the same time the flag bit SIXQR becomes high in order to inform the environment that the shift register SIXS may receive new data, the counter being loaded again with the length indicating bits SILX3...SILX when this counter has been reset, the next data is completely present in the shift register SIXS. The serial input commences as soon as the input bit SIXEN becomes high after SIXQR has become high. Synchronization is provided by the serial clock CIX. When the counter has been completely reset and there is still data which has not been transferred to the register SIX, the flag bit SIXQR is set to so that the counter and the shift register SIXS directly assume the hold mode. The operation of the processor has been described thus far for a 200 ns instruction cycle. When more use is made of a pipeline mechanism, the processor is also capable of implementing an instruction cycle of only 100 ns. In this respect reference is again made to Fig. 1 notably the registers 60 at the output of the multiplier element , 46, 104, 88 at the output of the data memory also form part of the pipeline structure. By adaptation of the clock frequency the accelleration can be chosen so as to be less than a factor two. Fig. 4 shows a time diagram for the operation. Therein, the bit FQR in the program status register PST continuously has the value 1 . In the ALU instruction, the following operations can be performed in parallel In the multiplication instruction, the following operations can be performed in parallel In the immediate load instruction, the following operations can be performed in parallel Line 300 in Fig. 4 indicates the successive cycles. On line 302 block 1 shows the address calculation. Block 1, line 304 represents the read access by way of the previously calculated address. The next block 2 indicates the time during which the data is valid in the output register of the memory thus addressed. Block 1 of line 104 indicates that the transport takes place via the bus buses and possibly the processing in ALU and or the multiplier element. Line 308 of block 2 which is two blocks later than the block 1 on the line 306 in which the processing is initiated indicates that the processing result in valid in the output register of the multiplier element when addressed. On the other hand, an operation can similarly be performed in the ALU unit. Line 310 of block 1 indicates in time before block 2 on line 308 that the address calculation for the next write operation for the calculation result may take place in time before block 2 on line 308 . on line 312 block 1 indicates that a bus transport and possibly a write access in a memory take place. The instruction register must now receive new data every 100 ns so twice as fast as previously . The register BSR must now also be filled one instruction cycle before the actual shift reformatting operation and must remain valid for at least one instruction cycle. The flag bits EI for the interrupt and RESET for resetting are now interrogated every 100 ns. A small difference with respect to the operations during the slow instruction cycle is that the output registers of the memories now act as source elements for the data bus buses instead of these memories themselves. Furthermore, all branch instructions and interrupt requests must always be followed by an instruction which does not imply an operation NOP the content of the memories is thus saved. Referring to Fig. 2 again which shows the main types of instruction words, some specific instruction fields will be described in detail hereinafter. Fig. 13a shows a table of the instruction field AINS of the arithmetic instructions. The first column gives the mnemonics. The second column shows the binary code. The last column shows the operation on the flag bits Z, N, C, O. An asterisk in the first column means that only one operand is processed consequently, this operand must arrive in the arithmetic and logic unit necessarily via the selector 66. A cross in the fourth column indicates that the filling of the relevant flag bits is determined by the result of the operation. A zero indicates that the relevant flag bit must be reset to zero. A horizontal dash indicates that the flag bit remains unmodified in all circumstances. The field OPS selects the operands for the two inputs A via register 120 and B via register 118 . For the two operand instructions, the bit C7 provides the control for the B input 0 gates an operand from the bus 22 1 gates the operand present in the register 118. Bit C8 provides the control for the A input 0 gates the operand of the bus 20 and 1 admits the operand already present in the register 120. For the one operand instructions denoted by an asterisk in Fig. 13a , the register 118 is in the hold state, the codes 00, 01, 10 successively selecting the register 120, the bus 22 and the bus 20 in order to perform the operation on an associated operand. For the operation SWAP, the register 118 is in the hold mode the code 01 selects the bus 22 and the code 10 selects the bus 20 for the operation the register 120 is transparent. Fig. 13b shows a table of the field MINS of the arithmetic instructions. There are seven code bits for 45 codes, so that a given degree of freedom of definition is obtained in order to facilitate the decoding. The codes can be divided into five groups, only the first group being shown in its entirety. The first column offers space for the code bits. The second column indicates the selection function for the elements 50 52. Thus, a transparency can be controlled X to the bus, or the content of the register can be used MXL . Finally, a multiplier factor 1 can be introduced. The third column indicates the selection function for the elements 54 56. A transparency Y can now be controlled to the bus, or the content of the register can be used MYL furthermore, the transparency can be controlled with an inversion. Always 200 ns is required for a multiplication operation. The fourth column shows the product thus formed. The second group of codes is identical to the first group moreover, the accumulator adder 64 is activated in order to add the content of the register 68 with a positive sign to the product ofthe two factors. The third group is identical to the second group, except that the content of the register 68 is now preceded by a negative sign. The fourth group is identical to the second group, except that the content of the register 68 is now shifted to the right through 15 bit locations multiplication by 2 Fig. 13c shows two tables for the bus 20 and the bus 22, respectively, in order to indicate that these elements are capable of acting as a source for the bus. Herein, ROM indicates element 90, ADO element 80, RAMA element 36, ARB element 106, RAMB element 102, IAR element 24, SIX, SOC, PO, PI the elements of the input output structure SIOST, PST, IOF the registers of the bank 34, BSR element 70, MSP LSP elements 72 74, R ... R14 the registers of the bank 116, and PINR the same as PI without treatment of pin PIQR. Finally APR is element 100, ARA element 48. Fig. 13d shows two tables for the fields DX, DY. Therein, the elements ACUA, ACUB, ACAR are the address calculation units of the memories 36, 102, 90 respectively The instruction field for this address calculation unit determines which local register is loaded. For the element 116 the field R file selects which of the registers is loaded. Finally the connection pins for signals will be described. Fig. 14 illustrates the multiplier element the circuit arrangement will first be described. Corresponding elements are denoted by the same reference numerals as used in Fig. 1. Bus 20 is connected to the X selector 54. Under the control of the bit SELX, the selector conducts either the bus operand or a value 1 which is formed by a signal generator not shown . Register 56 is made selectively transparent under control of bit ENX. The bus 22 is connected to the Y selector 52. Under the control of the bit SELY, the selector gates either the bus operand or the arithmetically inverted value thereof. As a result of the two s complement notation used, this conversion is very simple. Register 50 is transparent or not under the control of the bit ENY. Thus, in the described manner three possibilities can be selected by the two control bits for each input of the multiplier element. The multiplier element 58, moreover, receives a carry input signal CARR. To the output of the multiplier element 58 there is connected a register PR. The accumulator adder 64 does not receive special function signals. The accumulator register 68 receives an enable signal ENA. Selector 69 is connected to the output of register 68 to allow the operand stored therein to be transferred, either without modification or shifted over 15 bit positions in the less significant direction. The latter is again effected by the staggering of the connections. The selector 69 also receives an operand 0 , Between the selector 69 and the accumulator adder 64 there is also included an inverter 71 which is selectively activatable by a signal PM. The output of the accumulator adder 64 is also connected to the shift element 62 which will not be described again herein. Figure 14a shows a control table with six functions to be controlled for the element 64 in the first column. The right hand columns of the Figure contain the required control signals. On line 1, the signals PM and SELA 1, 2 retain their previous value the content of the register 68 then remains the same.