# Infusion system having plural fluid input ports and at least one patient output port.

## Abstract
An infusion system 10, 88, 372 for administering multiple infusates at individually programmable rates, volumes, and sequences in any order from any one or more of plural fluid input ports 16, 104 110, 194 through a patient output port 26, 112 and into the circulatory system of a patient. Infusates may be either continuously or time se quentially administered, and infusates may be either inter mittently administered at selectively regular intervals or in time overlap to administer a dilution. Various error condi tions are automatically detected and alarms 56, 424 gener ated in the event of conflicts between infusates, to identify times of no infusions, and to identify system malfunctions. The system is selectively operable, among others, in a priming mode 80 , a maintenance mode 76 , a normal on mode 76 . and a manual override mode 78 . The system is operative to adapt actual to desired flow rates in normal operation. All fluids flow through a unitary disposable cassette 12, 194196 without making any other system contact. Air bubbles in the fluid line are automatically detected 30 and disposed of. Fluid pressures 40 are monitored and system operation adjusted as a function of such pressures. Infusates may be administered from syring es as well as from standard bag or bottle containers 116, 118 . Infusate from a selected input port may be controllably pumped 46 into a syringe for unsticking the syringe plunger. The system is selectively operable to adjust total fluid volume and rate to below preselected values for patients whose total fluid intake must be restricted. The system is operable to maintain an accurate record of total infusion history.