# CATALYST SYSTEMS FOR POLYURETHANE COMPOSITIONS

## Claims
Härtbare Zusammensetzung umfassend

## Description
The present invention generally relates to the preparation of polyurethanes from certain hindered aliphatic isocyanates, and particularly to improvements in catalysis of the reaction between such hindered aliphatic isocyanates and hydroxyl containing compounds. More specifically, the invention relates to the use of certain synergistic catalyst compositions for the formation of polyurethanes by reaction between hydroxy containing compounds and certain tertiary aliphatic diisocyanates. The term aliphatic isocyanate refers to compounds in which the isocyanate group NCO is attached to a carbon atom not in an aromatic ring, and hindered isocyanates are those in which the carbon atom to which the isocyanate group is attached is provided with at least one other inert substituent, generally a lower C₁ C₈ alkyl group. The preparation of polyurethanes from aliphatic isocyanates is well known and the advantages derived therefrom are appreciated by those skilled in the art. Primary aliphatic isocyanates, for example, 1,6 hexamethylene diisocyanate, react significantly faster with compounds containing amino, carboxyl and hydroxyl groups than secondary or tertiary isocyanates. However, many isocyanates containing secondary and or tertiary isocyanate groups are known and some of them provide highly useful polyurethane products. Unfortunately, they usually are exceedingly slow reacting and require catalysis, especially in reactions with hydroxyl containing compounds. Reaction injection molding, commonly referred to by the acronym RIM, is a relatively recent advance in polyurethane technology. The process requires fast polyurethane reactions, that is, on the order of seconds at temperatures in the range of about 25 40 C Commonly used polyurethane catalysts, such as lead naphthenate and dialkyl tin dicarboxylates, are not adequate to promote the reaction between hindered aliphatic isocyanates and hydroxyl containing compounds under these conditions. Jourquin and DuPrez, U.S. A 4,150,206 common disclosure to DE A 2,710,901 describe catalyst mixtures for making polyurethanes. Such mixtures, which comprise, typically, an amine compound of the partial formula and a lead compound, and, optionally, a tin compound, function to start the reaction quickly, open foamed cells at the end of the reaction, and produce polyurethanes with improved resistance to the development of color under artificial light. Among the compounds exemplified in US A 4 150 206 are those of the general formulae wherein m is from 3 to 7 and n is from 2 to 4. Also exemplified is the compound 1,8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undecene 7, a compound of the above formula, but one in which m is 3 and n is 5. This compound, and its salt with phenol, is shown in US A 4 150 206 to be useful in catalyst systems only in combination with sodium acetate or sodium octoate, but not with tin compounds, alone, or even combined with lead compounds. DE B 1 745 418 describes a process for producing polyurethane resins from conventional polyisocyanates wherein catalyst mixtures containing 1,8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undecene 7 and conventional metal catalysts, for example, tin octoate are used. Similar catalyst systems which are used to accelerate the reaction between conventional polyisocyanates and polyols are described in DE A 1 720 633 and DE A 2 737 671. It has now been discovered that a superior catalyst for polyurethane compositions based on meta and or para α,α,α ,α tetramethylxylylene diisocyanate TMXDI comprises a combination of certain proportions of i 1,8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undecene 7, or its phenolate salt, ii a tin catalyst, e.g., a dialkyl tin carboxylate, such as dimethyl tin diacetate, or COTIN 222, an organotin carboxylate and, optionally, but preferably, a lead compound, e.g., an organic lead compound, such as lead naphthenate. Such compositions provide rapid curing, unexpectedly so in view of their superiority over lead tin combinations in this respect. This permits the usage of lead to be reduced, or even eliminated, maintaining the same order of activity, and avoiding toxicity problems. In addition, the extremely fast rates realized with the present catalyst composition permit utility in certain, previously foreclosed uses for the tetramethyl m xylylenediisocyanate polyol system, such as RIM and certain coating applications. In one of its principal aspects, the present invention provides a curable composition comprising In another principal aspect, the present invention provides a process for the catalysis of reaction between aliphatic hydroxyl containing compounds and meta and or para α,α,α ,α tetramethylxylylene diisocyanate in a reaction mixture thereof, comprising incorporating in said reaction mixture from 0.05 to 6 percent by weight of the catalyst composition defined above. The method of, the present invention can be used for producing a non yellowing, integral skin type foam by reacting The special catalyst compositions as defined above are employed with the aliphatic tertiary diisocyanate TMXDI which is reacted with primary and or secondary polyols, as commonly used in the art, to produce polyurethane products, e.g., coatings and injection molded products, according to conventional polyurethane technology. Such commonly used polyols include, for example, ethylene glycol, 1,2 propanediol, 1,3 propanediol, 1,4 butanediol, 1,6 hexanediol, glycerol, trimethylolpropane and p,p bis hydroxyethoxy benzene low molecular weight mol. wt. 500 5000 polymers or oligomers, such as hydroxyl terminated polyether polyols, for example, polytetramethylene ether glycol, polyethylene glycol, polypropylene glycol, and propylene glycol ethylene glycol block copolymers and hydroxyl terminated polyester polyols such as, polyethyleneadipate, poly ethylene propylene adipate, and hydroxyl terminated polyurethane prepolymers prepared therefrom. In the non yellowing foams, the polyether polyols which are used are polyether polyols which possess two OH groups, which have been obtained by addition polymerizing one type, or two types or more selected from ethylene oxide, propylene oxide, and butylene oxide with water, or diols such as ethylene glycol, diethylene glycol, triethylene glycol, propylene glycol, dipropylene glycol, butanediol, and hexanediol and polyether polyols which possess 3 to 8 OH groups, which are obtained by addition polymerizing one type, or two types or more, selected from ethylene oxide, propylene oxide, and butylene oxide with a polyhydric alcohol such as glycerin, trimethylolpropane, hexanetriol, pentaerythritol, α methyl glucoside, sorbitol, and sucrose. A favorable range of the OH value of the polyether polyol which possesses two OH groups and the polyether polyol which possesses 3 to 8 OH groups is 20 to 60. These types of polyether polyols are used alone, or mixed. The polymer polyol which is used in the foams is produced by polymerizing a vinyl monomer by a known method in the aforementioned polyether polyol. Monomers selected from vinyl monomers which are highly suitable for this use are one or more of, for example acrylonitrile, styrene, α methylstyrene, and methyl methacrylate. A highly desirable range of monomer quantity is 10 to 30 parts relative to 100 weight parts of polyether polyol. In this aspect, the polyether polyol and polymer polyol can be mixed and used as a mixed polyol. An especially favorable mixing range is polymer polyol 50 to 100 parts and polyether polyol 50 to 0 parts by weight of the polyol mixture. The polymeric polyols can be used in combination with other polyols, e.g. aminoalcohols, which can serve as crosslinkers. Illustrative amino alcohols which are used as the crosslinking agent which are favorable for this invention are monoethanolamine, diethanolamine, and triethanolamine, and these are used alone or mixed. Special mention is made of N,N,N ,N tetrakis 2 hydroxypropyl ethylenediamine. Also, compounds among low molecular weight polyols which are used as the crosslinking agent are, e.g., ethylene oxide adducts of 3 to 6 hydric alcohols. Other suitable alcohols are glycerol, trimethylolpropane, 1,3,6 hexanetriol, pentaerythritol, and sorbitol. A special mention is made of trimethylolpropane. If used, the crosslinker is preferably present in an amount to provide from 5 to 25 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of polyol. The diisocyanates to be used according to the present invention, i.e. the following compounds Special mention is made of α, α, α , α tetramethyl m xylylene diisocyanate. The compound 1,8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undecene 7 POLYCAT DBU , and its phenolic salt POLYCAT SA 1 , are available from San Abbott Company, Abbott Laboratories, North Chicago, Illinois 60064. With respect to the organic tin compound, it is suitable to use tin acetate, tin octanoate, tin oleate and tin laurate. It is preferred to use dialkyl tin dicarboxylates, represented by the structure wherein R represents an alkyl group containing from 1 to 8 carbon atoms, and R represents an alkyl group containing from 1 to 18 carbon atoms, these are well known catalyst compounds per se. Suitable dialkyl tin dicarboxylates are dimethyl tin dilaurate, dibutyl tin dilaurate, dibutyl tin diacetate, and the like. Special mention is made of UL 28, which is dimethyl tin diacetate, and COTIN 222, which is an organotin carboxylate. With respect to the organic lead compound, any of the organic lead compounds known in the art for this purpose will be suitable, but most commonly they will comprise a divalent lead organic salt of a carboxylic acid containing at least a COOH group, such as lead acetate, adipate, citrate, 2 ethylhexoate, laurate, linoleate, naphthenate, octanoate, oleate, oxalate, palmitate, resinate, ricinoleate, salicylate, stearate, tallate and tartrate. Special mention is made of lead naphthenate. As has also been mentioned, from 0.05 to 6, preferably from 0.05 to 5 parts, and especially preferably, from 2 to 5 parts by weight of catalyst composition is used, based on 100 parts by weight of the polyol component i in the composition. With special reference to the foamed embodiments of this invention, typical low boiling point halogenated hydrocarbons which are used as foaming agents are, for example, trichloromonofluoromethane and methylene chloride. As a light resistant stabilizer, there can be used one or more types selected from oxidation preventives and ultraviolet ray stabilizers. As oxidation preventatives, there can be used hindered phenols, for example, Irganox 1010 and Irganox 1076 made by the Ciba Geigy Company , and Yoshinox BHT, Yoshinox BB, and Yoshinox GSY 930 made by Yoshitomi Pharmaceutical Industries, Ltd. As ultraviolet ray absorbing agents, there can be used, e.g., benzotriazoles, such as Tinuvin P, Tinuvin 327, and Tinuvin 328 made by the Ciba Geigy Company , and benzophenones such as Tomisorb 800 made by Yoshitomi Seiyaku . Also, as ultraviolet ray stabilizing agents, for example hindered amines such as Thanol LS770, LS744, and Tinuvin 144 made by the Ciba Geigy Company , and Tinuvin 120 and Irgastab 2002 made by the Ciba Geigy Company . As the quality of use of the foregoing light resistant stabilizers, 0.2 to 2.0 parts of each relative to 100 parts of the polyol is appropriate. When coloring the integral skin foam, a pigment or dye can be added to the mixed polyol and it is colored to the desired color. It is also possible to add other additives such as fillers and plasticizers. When using this aspect of the invention, a resin solution is obtained by thoroughly agitating and mixing the mixed polyol, crosslinking agent, catalyst, foaming agent, and light resistant stabilizer, and as necessary other additives. After next adding the TMXDI to the resin solution and thoroughly mixing, this is immediately poured into the mold. When conducting this continuously, a foaming machine is used, and either the resin solution components and TMXDI are poured into the mold at low pressure or if RIM molding is used the substances are injected into the mold under high pressure. After letting this stand for 1 to 5 minutes within the mold, the molded integral skin foam is removed. When the process of this aspect is used, it is possible to mold an integral skin foam in a short while and, furthermore, not only does the product possess adequate strength and load supporting capability but discoloration due to ultraviolet rays does not develop. It is therefore possible to obtain lightly colored cushions, armrests and pads easily and in a single process. The following non limiting examples illustrate the invention. All parts and percentages are by weight, unless otherwise indicated. A prepolymer was made by mixing 410 parts of a polymer polyol NIAX LHT 42, Union Carbide, e.g. wt. 1420 with 1000 parts of α, α, α , α tetramethyl m xylylenediisocyanate and 0.14 parts of tin catalyst dibutyltindilaurate, T 12, M T Chemical Co. and heating at 85 C for 4 hours. The NCO content was 23 . Then 15 parts of the prepolymer was mixed with 25 parts of a mixture of 100 parts of a polypropylene polyol VORANOL 5148, equivalent wt. 2340, Dow Chemical , and 16 parts of trimethylol propane. The catalyst components were thoroughly mixed in at the temperature specified for 0.3 0.3 minutes 20 seconds . The mixture was allowed to exotherm and gel. Gel time was reached when the mixture stopped flowing, and hard time was reached when the composition became tack free. For comparison purposes, catalyst compositions outside the scope of the present invention were also tested. The formulations used and the results obtained are set forth in Table 1 The results in Table 1 indicate that polyol trimethylol propane tetramethylxylylene diisocyanate compositions were only slowly catalyzed by the DBU and its salts and by some tin compounds when used by themselves. But in combination, they were faster than lead tin combinations which are state of the art . A conventional polyamine was not as effective as the DBU and its salts. Both tin catalysts were about equally active in combination with the DBU and salts, and the best ratio of DBU compound to tin compound appeared to be about 2 1 by wt. The general procedure of Examples 1 3 was repeated, using different ratios in the catalyst combination, and substituting for the cyclic diamine, in some instances, acid addition salts thereof. The formulations used and the results obtained are summarized in Table 2 The results in Table 2 show that the cyclic diamine significantly enhanced the activity of the lead tin combination. It also shows that the usage of lead can be reduced to maintain the same level of activity. The phenolic salt of the cyclic diamine was almost as effective as the free base. The general procedure of Examples 1 3 is used to formulate and test polyol mixtures with diisocyanates catalyzed according to this invention. The polymer polyol was NIAX D 440, e.g. wt. 2050, Union Carbide. The formulations used and the results obtained are set forth in Table 3. Table 3 shows that the cyclic diamine containing compositions effectively promote the reaction of mixtures containing a polymer polyol. Best results were obtained with ternary catalyst compositions including lead . The general procedure of Examples 1 3 was repeated using strong amine carrying cross linkers instead of alkyl polyols. The isocyanate containing prepolymer was as in Example 1. The formulations used and the results obtained are set forth in Table 4. In the presence of strong amine carrying crosslinkers, lead gave the fastest rate, but the dicyclic diamine permitted the level of lead needed to be reduced substantially.