# COMPOSITION AND PROCESS FOR MODIFYING OR ENHANCING FLAVORS

## Claims
Oral verbrauchbare Zusammensetzung, die ein modifiziertes oder verstärktes Aroma hat und mindestens teilweise aus einem Nahrungsmittel, einer medizinischen Zusammensetzung, einer Zusammensetzung für die Oralhygiene, einer kaubaren Zusammensetzung oder einer rauchbaren Zusammensetzung besteht und ein Diterpenglycosid enthält, das die Struktur

## Description
This invention relates to orally consumable compositions or smoking compositions containing diterpene glycosides, the diterpene glycosides have the structure wherein R, R₁ and R₂ are selected from the group consisting of H, glucose, rhamnose or beta sophorose. These diterpene glycosides can be selected from the group consisting of steviolbioside R R₁ H R₂ glucose stevioside R R₂ glucose R₁ H rebaudioside A R R₁ R₂ glucose rebaudioside B R H R₁ R₂ glucose rebaudioside C R R₁ glucose R₂ Rhamnose rebaudioside D R beta sophorose R₁ R₂ glucose rebaudioside E R beta sophorose R₁ H R₂ glucose dulcoside A R glucose R₁ H R₂ rhamnose steviolmonoside R R₁ R₂ H and rubusoside R glucose R₁ R₂ H and derivatives of such compounds. In the case of orally consumable compositions, the glycoside is present in an amount less than the sweetness threshold level of the glycoside in the composition. By the term orally consumable composition , as used herein, is meant substances which are contacted with the mouth of man or animal, including substances which are taken into and subsequently ejected from the mouth and substances which are drunk, eaten, swallowed or otherwise ingested. There is a need for materials which can modify or enhance the flavor of orally consumable compositions such as foodstuffs, smoking compositions, chewing compositions, oral hygiene compositions and medicinal compositions to improve or vary the sensory perceptions thereof. In the art of flavoring foodstuffs and medicinal compositions, there is a continuing need for compositions which can modify and improve the flavor of such materials, because acceptance and demand for foodstuffs and medicinal products is generally related to the sensory perception of them. In the art of flavoring oral hygiene compositions, such as mouthwash and toothpaste, and in the art of flavoring chewing compositions, such as chewing tobacco, snuffs and chewing gum, there is a need to improve the flavor characterists of such chewing compositions with flavor modifiers or enhancers which are non cariogenic and do not support the growth of tooth decay producing streptococci, lactobaccilli, or the like. In the art of flavoring smoking compositions, considerable emphasis has been placed on the development of improved flavors for low delivery smoking compositions. Low delivery smoking products generally produce 15 mg or less of tar. Tar is generally defined as the total particulate matter collected on a standard filter, minus the nicotine and water content. Smoking designs accomplishing low delivery, such as ventilated filters, often cause air dilution of the flavorants in the smoke. This dilution reduces the flavor and desirability of the smoking composition. There is thus a need for materials to enhance or modify flavors Of low delivery and other smoking compositions. It is an object of this invention to provide an orally consumable composition having a modified or enhanced flavor. Another object of this invention is to provide a process for modifying or enhancing the flavor of an orally consumable composition, and additionally, another object of this invention is to provide a process for modifying or enhancing the taste, aroma and or texture of foodstuffs, smoking compositions, chewing compositions, oral hygiene compositions and medicinal compositions. These and other objects, advantages, details, features and embodiments of this invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description of the invention and the appended claims. Diterpene glycosides usable in the invention have the structure and are selected from the group consisting of steviolbioside R R₁ H R₂ glucose stevioside R R₂ glucose R₁ H rebaudioside A R R₁ R₂ glucose rebaudioside B R H, R₁ R₂ glucose rebaudioside C R R₁ glucose R₂ rhamnose rebaudioside D R beta sophorose R₁ R₂ glucose rebaudioside E R beta sophorose R₁ H R₂ glucose dulcoside A R glucose R₁ H R₂ rhamnose steviolmonoside R R₁ R₂ H and rubusoside R glucose R₁ R₂ H and derivatives of such compounds. This invention is based on the discovery that diterpene glucosides, having the structure shown above, have unexpected and advantageous flavor enhancement and modification properties. The leaves of In this invention, it has been discovered that a diterpene glycoside can modify or enhance the flavor of an orally consumable composition. It has been found that an orally consumable composition having a modified or enhanced flavor comprises a diterpene glycoside at a concentration substantially below the sweetness detection threshold level of such diterpene glycoside in the orally consumable compositions. The exact mechanism of the flavor modification or enhancement by the diterpene glycoside is not known. The term flavor or flavor characteristic , as used herein, is the combined sensory perception of the components of taste, odor and or texture. The term enhance , as used herein, includes augmenting, intensifying, accentuating, magnifying and potentiating the sensory perception of a flavor characteristic without changing the nature or quality thereof. The term modify , as used herein, includes altering, varying, suppressing, depressing, fortifying and supplementing the sensory perception of a flavor characteristic where the quality or duration of such characteristic was deficient. The term orally consumable composition includes foodstuffs, medicinal compositions, smoking compositions, chewing compositions and oral hygiene compositions, including mouthwashes and toothpastes. The term foodstuff includes both solid and liquid ingestable materials which usually do, but need not, have a nutritional value and are intended for consumption by man or animal. Representative examples of foodstuff include coffee, teas, herbal teas, baked goods, natural and synthetic flavors, spices, condiments, soups, stews, convenience foods, beverages both carbonated and non carbonated , dairy products, candies, vegetables, cereals, fruits, fruit drinks, snacks, cocoa products, chocolates, animal feed, and the like. The term medicinal composition includes solids, gases and liquids which are ingestable materials having medicinal value, such as cough syrups, cough drops, medicinal sprays, vitamins and chewable medicinal tablets. The term chewing compositions include chewing tobacco, smokeless tobacco, snuff, chewing gum and other compositions which are masticated and subsequently expectorated. Chewing gum includes compositions which comprise a substantially water insoluble, chewable gum base, such as chicle or substitutes therefor, including jetulong, guttakay rubber or certain comesible natural synthetic resins or waxes. The term oral hygiene compositions includes mouthwashes, mouthrinses, toothpastes, tooth polishes, dentrifices, mouth sprays and mouth refreshers. The term smoking composition , as used herein, includes cigarette, pipe and cigar tobacco, and all forms of tobacco such as shredded filler, leaf, stem, stalk, homogenized leaf cured, reconstituted binders and reconstituted tobacco from tobacco dust, fines or ether sources in sheet, pellet or other forms. Smoking compositions also include tobacco substitutes formulated from non tobacco materials, such as representative tobacco substitutes described in U.S. Patents 3,529,602, 3,703,177 and 4,079,742 and references cited therein. In accordance with a first embodiment of this invention, an orally consumable composition having an enhanced or modified flavor is provided. It has been discovered that a diterpene glycoside can modify or enhance flavor characteristics which are sweet, fruity, floral, herbaceous, spicy, aromatic or pungent. A diterpene glycoside is particularly effective in modifying or enhancing nut like flavors, such as almond, pecan, and the like spicy flavors, such as cinnamon, clove, nutmeg, anise and wintergreen non citrus fruit flavors, such as strawberry, cherry, apple, grape, currant, tomato, gooseberry and blackberry citrus fruit flavors, such as orange, lemon and grapefruit and other useful flavors, including coffee, cocoa, peppermint, spearmint, vanilla and maple. An orally consumable composition comprising an effective amount of a diterpene glycoside having the structure shown above has an enhanced or modified flavor. A diterpene glycoside can modify or enhance the flavor of a foodstuff, a medicinal composition, a chewing composition and a smoking composition. The orally consumable composition preferably comprises a diterpene glycoside selected from the group consisting of steviolbioside R R₁ H R₂ glucose stevioside R R₂ glucose R₁ H rebaudioside A R R₁ R₂ glucose rebaudioside B R H R₁ R₂ glucose rebaudioside C R R₁ glucose R₂ rhamnose rebaudioside D R beta sophorose R₁ R₂ glucose rebaudioside E R beta sophorose R₁ H R₂ glucose dulcoside A R glucose R₁ H R₂ rhamnose steviolmonoside R R₁ R₂ H and rubusoside R glucose R₁ R₂ H and derivatives of such compounds. In accordance with one variation of this embodiment, an orally consumable composition comprises a diterpene glycoside in an amount effective to modify or enhance the taste, odor and or texture of the orally consumable composition, wherein said amount of diterpene glycoside added is less than the sweetness threshold level of the diterpene glycoside in the orally consumable composition. The sweetness threshold level is a concentration of a diterpene glycoside in an orally consumable composition at which the sweetness of the diterpene glycoside is perceptible. The terminology amount effective or effective amount is to be given significance in the context of the present invention. The use of an insufficient amount of a diterpene glycoside, less than the effective amounts, will not produce an effective sensory perception. The use of an excessive amount of a diterpene glycoside will produce sweetness which may not be desired for flavor modification or enhancement. The amount of a diterpene glycoside which this invention employed can vary over a relatively wide range, depending upon the desired sensory effect to be achieved with the orally consumable composition and the nature of the initial composition. The sweetness threshold level at which the sweetness of a diterpene glycoside will become perceptible is also not an absolute, but is affected by the presence of other materials and stimuli. In accordance with a preferred variation of this embodiment, an orally consumable composition having a modified or enhanced flavor comprises 0.001 to 0.03 parts by weight of a diterpene glycoside to 100 parts by weight of an orally consumable composition. In accordance with the more preferred variation of this embodiment of this invention, 0.004 to 0.015 parts by weight of a diterpene glycoside is added to 100 parts by weight of an orally consumable composition. In accordance with another variation of this embodiment, it has been found that an orally consumable composition can have an enhanced or modified flavor by having added thereto leaf material of Diterpene glycosides, as described herein, represent a new class or genus of flavor modifiers or enhancers. Other flavorants, flavor modifiers or enhancers known in the art include i organic acids, their salts and their esters, including adipic acid, fumaric acid, lactic acid, succinic acid, tartaric acid and ethyl formate ii amino acids and their salts, including glycine, cysteine and glutamic acid iii protein hydrolysates iv ribotides, including disodium 5 inosinate and disodium 5 guanylate v inorganic salts, such as sodium chloride and potassium chloride vi pyrones, such as maltol and ethyl maltol and vii other modifiers and enhancers known in the art. In accordance with another embodiment of this invention, a process for modifying or enhancing the flavor of orally consumable compositions comprises the step of adding to the orally consumable composition an effective amount of a diterpene glycoside. The orally consumable composition can be selected from the group consisting of a foodstuff, a medicinal composition, an oral hygiene composition, a chewing composition and a smoking composition. Preferably, the diterpene glycoside added to the orally consumable composition is, referring to structure shown above, selected from the group consisting of steviolbioside R R₁ H R₂ glucose stevioside R R₂ glucose R₁ H rebaudioside A R R₁ R₂ glucose rebaudioside B R H R₁ R₂ glucose rebaudioside C R R₁ glucose R₂ rhamnose rebaudioside D R beta sophorose R₁ R₂ glucose rebaudioside E R beta sophorose R₁ H R₂ glucose dulcoside A R glucose R₁ H R₂ rhamnose steviolmonoside R R₁ R₂ H and rubusoside R glucose R₁ R₂ H and derivatives of such compounds. In one variation of this embodiment, a leaf material of A diterpene glycoside can be added to an orally consumable composition by admixing the diterpene glycoside with the orally consumable composition or admixing the diterpene glycoside with a component of the orally consumable composition. In accordance with another embodiment of this invention, it has been discovered that a diterpene glycoside can modify or enhance the flavor of a smoking composition. It has been found that a smoking composition having an enhanced or modified flavor comprises a smoking filler material selected from the group consisting of tobacco, reconstituted tobacco, non tobacco substitutes and mixtures thereof, and an effective amount of a diterpene glycoside. In one variation of this embodiment, the smoking composition comprises a filter means comprising a diterpene glycoside. The term filter means , as used herein, includes a smoking device means such as a cigar or cigarette holder having a filtering or flavoring module incorporated therein and includes acetate, cotton, charcoal and other fiber, flake or particle filtering means. In another variation of this embodiment, the smoking composition comprises a wrapper means comprising a diterpene glycoside. In one variation of this embodiment of this invention, 0.003 to 0.30 parts by weight of a diterpene glycoside is added to 100 parts by weight of the smoking filler material. In a preferred variation of this embodiment of this invention, 0.015 to 0.30 parts by weight of a diterpene glycoside is added to 100 parts of a weight of a smoking filler material. Those skilled in the art of flavoring tobacco understand that the effective amount of the diterpene glycoside added to a smoking composition may depend upon the method in which the diterpene glycoside is added to the smoking composition and to which portion of the smoking composition the diterpene glycoside is added. The diterpene glycoside can be added directly to the smoking filler material, to the filter means or to the wrapper means of a smoking composition. A diterpene glycoside can be added to a filter means of a smoking composition by any manner known to those skilled in the art of flavoring filter means, including but not limited to, incorporating the diterpene glycoside among the fibers, flakes or particles of a filter means, filling the diterpene glycoside between two or more layers of fibers of a fiber filber means to form a triple filter means, or inserting the diterpene glycoside into a smoking device means, such as a cigarette holder. In accordance with another embodiment of this invention, a process for modifying or enhancing the flavor of a smoking composition comprising a smoking filler material selected from the group consisting of tobacco, reconstituted tobacco, non tobacco substitutes, and mixtures thereof, comprises a step of adding to the smoking composition an effective amount of a diterpene glycoside. In a preferred variation of this embodiment, 0.003 to 0.30 parts by weight of a diterpene glycoside are added to one hundred parts by weight of a smoking filler material. In a more preferred variation of this embodiment, 0.015 to 0.30 parts by weight of a diterpene glycoside are added to one hundred parts by weight of a smoking filler material. A diterpene glycoside may be added to a smoking composition by any methods known in the art. The diterpene glycoside may be added directly to a smoking filler material or filter means, or may be dissolved or suspended in a suitable solvent or suspension carrier, such as ethanol, pentane, diethyl ether, glucose, glycols, water, steam or other volatile or non volatile solvents or carriers to form a solution or suspension for contacting with the smoking filler material or filter means. The smoking filler material may be contacted with solvent or carrier having the diterpene glycoside by impregnating, spraying, soaking, dipping, brushing or otherwise contacting with the resulting suspension or solution. It is apparent to those skilled in the art that only a portion of the smoking filler material or filter means need be treated with a diterpene glycoside, since blending or other operations may be used to adjust the final or ultimate smoking composition within the effective or desired ranges of concentration of diterpene glycoside. In addition to a diterpene glycoside, other flavorings or aroma additives known in the smoking composition flavoring art may be used with a diterpene glycoside and added along with the diterpene glycoside to the smoking composition. Representative flavorings used in the smoking composition flavoring art include ethyl acetate, isoamyl acetate, propyl isobutyrate, isobutyl butyrate, ethyl butyrate, ethyl valerate, benzyl formate, menthol, limonene, cymene, pinene, linalool, geraniol, citroneilol, citral, pepperment oil, orange oil, coriander oil, lemon oil, borneol, cocoa extract, tobacco extract, licorice extract and fruit extractives. It has also been found that leaf material of It has been found that the concentration of a taste qualifier of Also, the concentration of a taste qualifier of Finally, the concentration of a taste qualifier of A diterpene glycoside, in its extracted or purified state, is generally a fine powder, having a particle size in the range of about 1 to 100 µm. Fine powders are difficult to handle and difficult to admix with orally consumable compositions, such as tea leaves, tobacco products, herb leaves, coffees and other orally consumable compositions. Also, generally, only a relatively small amount of a diterpene glycoside is used with an orally consumable composition when the diterpene glycoside is used as a flavor modifier or enhancer or as a sweetener. Problems can occur because a diterpene glycoside may not be uniformly mixed with an orally consumable composition or remain mixed during transportation or use of the orally consumable composition. The following examples are intended to further illustrate the invention. A cured and shredded, commercially available domestic tobacco material, Laredo Brown Williamson Tobacco Corp., Louisville, Kentucky was sprayed with a solution of water and a mixture of diterpene glycosides comprising The water was removed from the tobacco material by drying by evaporation. The smoking tobacco material was manufactured into a cigarette. The following concentrations of the mixture of diterpene glycoside were tested The smoking compositions a , b and c were taste tested by smoking and compared against a control. Test smoking compositions a and b could not be distinguished from the control. Test smoking compositions c and d were found to have a different and more desirable taste. A Laredo filter comprising predominately an acetate fibrous material was injected with a solution of water and the mixture of diterpene glycosides, as described in Example I above. The treated filter material was dried by evaporation to remove the water and was reassembled to a wrapped smoking composition to form a filter cigarette. The following concentrations of the mixture of diterpene glycosides were tested A chewing composition, having an enhanced or modified flavor, is prepared by adding a diterpene glycoside to a chewing tobacco. A source of diterpene glycoside was a leaf material from In this example, 30 grams of a commercially available chewing tobacco Skoal , United States Tobacco Co., Franklin Park, Illinois was opened, and its volume was expanded to permit relatively even distribution of an additive. Six one hundredths 0.06 of the above described leaf material of On taste testing against a control, the chewing composition comprising the An astringent mouthwash for oral hygiene use and mouth rinsing, having a modified or enhanced flavor, is prepared by preparing the following separate groups of ingredients. The first group of ingredients The sodium saccharin, glycerin, water and stevia diterpene glycosides are admixed with the zinc sulfate solution. The second group of ingredients A maple frosting, useful for coating of cakes, cookies and other foodstuffs and having a modified or enhanced flavor, is prepared by combining the following ingredients and admixing in a 1,000 milliliter beaker The mixture of stevia diterpene glycosides comprise the following composition stevioside 49.5 parts by weight, rebaudioside A 38.6 parts by weight. A soup, having an enhanced or modified, is prepared by the following process The resulting mixture comprising the diterpene glycoside is heated until boiling and boiled for about one minute and then cooked at a reduced amount of heat by simmering for approximately 20 minutes. To the mixture is added uncooked rice, and the resulting mixture with rice is cooked at a reduced heat by simmering for approximately 15 minutes. The resulting foodstuff was tasted and expectorated. The resulting mixture has an enhanced or modified taste and an enhanced aroma and texture. The diterpene glycosides stevioside, steviolbioside, rebaudioside A and rebaudioside B abbreviated as SS, SB, RA and RA, respectively were tested to evaluate their respective enhancement or modification propensities. Solution samples of approximately 25 milliliters of a strawberry sample 5 strawberry extract in water , vanilla sample 5 vanilla extract in water , cinnamon apple herbal tea Lipton, Thomas J. Lipton, Inc., Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey , orange and spice tea Lipton , and a pekoe tea Lipton orange pekoe and pekoe cut black tea were presented to each subject. The comparison was done on an equal weights basis, on an equimolar concentration basis and on an isosweet concentration as follows Procedures were taken to ensure testing uniformity. A solution sample size of approximately 25 milliliters was given to each of about four to six test subjects for a comparison basis. Sample testing was conducted with a single subject present and no interference from other testing subjects. Each subject was asked to orally consume without swallowing a test solution, hold, and expectorate after holding in the subject s mouth for a sufficient time to evaluate flavor characteristics. Each subject was asked to evaluate and compare a test sample containing a diterpene glycoside to a control containing the same flavoring solution or tea, or the like, but containing no diterpene glycoside. In separate experiments, each subject was asked to rank four samples flavored sample containing RA, flavored sample containing RB, flavored sample containing SS and flavored sample containing SB however, for the isosweet strawberry sample, the four samples were strawberry control, strawberry solution with SS, strawberry solution with RA and strawberry solution with RB, since SB was not sufficiently soluble to prepare an isosweet sample. The test samples were presented to the subjects in a random manner to eliminate preferences which might result from presentation in a specific order. The subjects were not informed of the contents of any of the solutions which were tested. Strawberry and vanilla samples were prepared at room temperature approximately 25 C. , were refrigerated and were served at approximately 18 20 C. Teas were prepared with boiling deionized water and cooled to approximately 45 C. prior to serving. McCormick Imitation Strawberry Extract and McCormick Pure Vanilla Extract McCormick Co., Inc., Baltimore, Maryland were dissolved in deionized water at room temperature to prepare the strawberry and pure vanilla extracts, respectively. A concentrated aqueous solution of the appropriate diterpene glycoside was added with mixing to the solution containing the flavor extractives, and the final weight of the solution was adjusted by the addition of deionized water. The concentrated diterpene glycoside DTG solutions were SB at 0.00625 weight weight , RA, RB and SS at 0.025 weight weight . The finished flavor mixtures comprising the diterpene glycoside solutions were refrigerated prior to taste testing and contained the following weights of flavor and diterpene glycoside. For the teas, a tea bag was placed in a beaker, and the appropriate quantity of a diterpene glycoside solution and boiling deionized water were added to a total weight of 200 grams. The beaker was placed on a hot plate, and the solution was heated for five minutes. After cooling, the final weight of tea was approximately 180 grams, and the diterpene glycosides were as listed in the table above. All samples were to be ranked by the test subject at a single sitting. The time between evaluating samples was approximately one minute. No more than two experiments were conducted with a single subject in a single day to prevent taste fatigue. In all of the taste tests, there was no reported difference between the control and a sample containing one of the diterpene glycosides, with respect to the aroma or texture of the control versus the sample containing the diterpene glycoside. The results are as follows In the equal weight test, all of the samples containing a diterpene glycoside were preferred by the test panel over the control. There was no preference by a test subject for one diterpene glycoside over another. In the equimolar test, all of the samples containing a diterpene glycoside were preferred over the control, and there was no preference for one diterpene glycoside over another. In the isosweet test, SB was not tested because the solubility was not sufficiently high to obtain the appropriate concentration. RA and RB were preferred over SS, and most testers reported an off taste typically observed with SS. SS, RA and RB were all preferred over the control. In a special equimolar versus isosweet test of RA 0.005 versus 0.004 , the higher concentration of RA was preferred over the lower concentration, and the higher concentration was reported to reduce sharpness or tartness of the sample. In the equimolar testing, all of the samples containing a diterpene glycoside were preferred over the control, and there was no preferance for one diterpene glycoside over another. In a special equimolar versus isosweet test of RA 0.005 versus 0.004 , the higher concentration of RA was preferred over the lower concentration of RA. In an equimolar test, all of the diterpene glycosides were preferred over the control containing no diterpene glycosides. RA was preferred over other diterpene glycosides, followed in order of preference by RB, SS and SB. In the equimolar test, all of the samples containing a diterpene glycoside were preferred by the test panel over the control. RA was preferred, followed in order of preference by RB, SS and SB. In the equimolar test, all of the test subjects reported that the tea containing SS and RA were sweet, while exactly 50 of the test panel reported that the tea containing RB was sweet. None of the test panel reported an enhancement of the tea taste. The test was repeated with a different brand of tea Twining R. Twining Co., Ltd. Greensboro, North Carolina and similar results were obtained. Intact, air dried Intact, air dried leaves of Intact, air dried leaves of A purified diterpene glycoside extractive obtained from A purified diterpene glycoside extractive obtained from Reasonable variations and modifications, which will become apparent to those skilled in the art, can be made in this invention without departing from the spirit and scope thereof.