# VIDEO SIGNAL REPRODUCING CIRCUIT FOR A VIDEO TAPE RECORDER

## Claims
Gerät zum Wiedergeben eines auf einem Magnetband T aufgezeichneten Videosignals, welches eines von einem ersten und einem zweiten Videosignal S

## Description
This invention relates to an apparatus for reproducing video signals recorded on a tape, especially to a video tape recorder VTR and in particular, is directed to a VTR suitable for use with a so called low frequency converted signal recording and or reproducing system in which a chrominace subcarrier signal is low frequency converted, recorded on a recording tape together with a frequency modulated luminance signal and reproduced therefrom. In an apparatus for recording and or reproducing a low frequency converted carrier signal in which a low frequency converted chrominance subcarrier signal S Fig. 1A shows a frequency spectrum of an existing low frequency converted color video signal S When the first and second color video signals S For such case, it is considered to form the reproducing system of the VTR as shown in Fig. 3. Fig. 3 illustrates a reproducing system 10 for only a luminance signal system. As shown in Fig. 3, a first or second color video signal S For example, when the filter characteristic suitable for the first luminance signal Y A first low pass filter 5 having a filter characteristic F1 is connected at the post stage of the second low pass filter 4 and a switching circuit 6 is provided for selectively supplying the outputs from these low pass filters 4 and 5 to an output terminal thereof. The switching circuit 6 is changed over such that only when the first luminance signal Y To this end, the first or second luminance signal Y When the input and output characteristic of the frequency demodulator 3 is selected as shown by a straight line ℓ in Fig. 5, the horizontal synchronizing pulses P The switching circuit 6 is controlled by the compared output control pulse P When the gate pulse P Further, when a noise SN as shown in Fig. 6 enters the video signal, the synchronizing separating circuit 7 is malfunctioned by the noise SN so that also in this case, the low pass filters 4 and 5 cannot be changed over accurately. Another apparatus for reproducing from a magnetic tape a recorded video signal which is one of at least two different video signals, is described in DE A 26 44 465. This apparatus also makes use of the horizontal synchronizing pulses. However, no level comparison is provided, but the horizontal synchronizing pulses are used as trigger pulses to start different time pulses after which different types of signals have to be expected, depending on what type of video signal is reproduced. This apparatus has the same deficiencies as the apparatus according to Fig. 3, i.e. it cannot be changed over precisely between the different types of video signals in case the horizontal synchronizing pulse is not detected correctly due to a drop out or due to noise. Therefore the problem existed to provide an apparatus for reproducing from a magnetic tape a recorded video signal which is one of a first and second video signal, which apparatus is capable of detecting very reliably whether said first or said second video signal is reproduced. An apparatus according to the present invention for reproducing from a magnetic tape a recorded video signal which is one of first and second video signals which have been frequency modulated on first and second carriers, respectively, said first carrier having a frequency lower than that of said second carrier, comprises The main difference of this apparatus against the prior art apparatus is that the detecting signal is not generated from the demodulated video signal, but from the still undemodulated video signal. By the third filter, a detecting signal is generated whose level indicates the level of the complete video signal, not only of its synchronizing part. therefore, a drop out or noise does not influence the detection independently of whether said first or said second video signal is reproduced. Figs. 1A and 1B illustrate frequency spectrum diagrams of color video signals useful for explaining this invention, respectively Now, an embodiment of the VTR according to this invention will hereinafter be described in detail with reference to Fig. 7 and the followings. In Fig. 7, like parts corresponding to those of Fig. 3 are marked with the same reference numerals and will not be described in detail. In Fig. 7, reference numeral 20 designates a detecting circuit which is supplied with the first or second color video signal S Fig. 8 shows an example of the detecting circuit 20. Referring to Fig. 8, the first or second luminance signal S Fig. 9 shows the waveforms of the frequency modulated luminance signals S The output from the amplifier 24 is detected by a detector circuit 25 which is formed of mainly a transistor Q1 and a diode D. When the first luminance signal S Figs. 9 and 10B illustrate a level ℓ₂ which enables the transistor Q2 to turn on. The collector output of the transistor Q2 becomes as shown by a broken line in Fig. 10C. When this collector output is supplied to an integrating circuit 28, an integrated output S In the case of the second luminance signal S Accordingly in the case that an input signal is the first color video signal S The control circuit 30 for producing the trigger pulse P A switching pulse P A mode pulse P Accordingly, in the playback mode, the level of the mode pulse P As described above, in the playback mode, one level detected output S When the detecting circuit 20 is constructed as described above, the horizontal synchronizing pulse after being demodulated is not used to form the gate pulse P According to this invention, the gate pulse or control pulse P Further, since the noise can be removed by the integrating circuit 28, the switching circuit is free of the influence of the noise. In addition, in the embodiment shown in Fig. 8, the control circuit 30 is provided such that the level detected output S Since the control circuit 30 is supplied with the mode pulse P In insert edition mode, instead of the first color video signal S Such edition must be avoided. Therefore, in such insert edition mode, it is desired to inhibit the edition from being carried out under the state of the second color video signal S To this end, in the reproducing system 10, when the mode pulse P While the state of the switching circuit 6 is held, the recording system is desired to change the deviation frequency of a frequency modulator provided therein into such one for use in the first color video signal S In Fig. 13, reference numeral 40 designates a recording system, in which a luminance signal Y is frequency modulated by a frequency modulator 42 and then mixed with a low frequency converted chrominance subcarrier signal not shown , which then is supplied through a recording amplifier 43 to a magnetic recording head H In the insertion edition mode, the VTR is changed into the mode in which a color video signal that should be recorded can directly be monitored not through the tape recording reproducing system, namely, a so called E E mode. For this reason, the reproducing system 10 is provided with a mode change over switch 44 and the output from the pre amplifier 2 and the output from the recording amplifier 43, in this embodiment, are automatically changed by this mode change over switch 44. The frequency modulator 42 is provided with a control switch 45 so as to change the frequency modulated deviation frequency and this control switch 45 is controlled automatically by the gate pulse P Here, when the reproduced information before an insert start point is the first color video signal S When the first color video signal S As set forth above, according to this invention, since the gate pulse P The above description is given on the preferred embodiments of the invention, but it will be apparent that many modifications and variations could be effected by one skilled in the art without departing from the spirits or scope of the novel concepts of the invention, so that the scope of the invention should be determined by the appended claims only.