# Hair growth stimulating agents and their use.

## Abstract
Prolactin secretion stimulating agents including e.g. 1,10 αβ dimethyl 9,10 dihydro ergocristine, Domperidone, Sulpiride, 2 mercaptoethanol, 2 hydroxyethyl 4 pyridylmethyl sulfide, 2,2 dithio ethanol and S,S ethylene bis 2 dithioethanol are useful as hair growth stimulating agents. This novel use as well as novel compositions comprising prolactin secretion stimulating agents for use in the stimulation of hair growth are described and claimed.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of stimulating hair growth in a subject in need of such treatment, which method comprises administering to said subject an effective amount of a prolactin secretion stimula ting agent. 2. The use of a prolactin secretion stimulating agent for the stimulation of hair growth. 3. The use of a prolactin secretion stimulating agent for the manufacture of a composition for use in the stimulation of hair growth. 4. A composition for use in the stimulation of hair growth, said composition being formulated or presented so as to provide for or to permit convenient dermal application and comprising a prolactin secretion stimulating agent as active component together with one or more topically applicable diluents or carriers therefor. 5. A process for the production of a composition for use in the stimu lation of hair growth, said composition comprising i a prolactin secretion stimulating agent as active component together with ii one or more topically applicable diluents or carriers therefor, which process comprises bringing component i into intimate admix ture with component ii and effecting formulation or presentation 9f the composition so as to provide for or to permit convenient topical application thereof. 6. A method, use, composition or process according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the prolactin secretion stimulating agent is selected from the group consisting of l,lO o dimethyl 9,lO dihydro ergocristine 5 chloro 1 1 3 2,3 dihydro 2 oxo 1H benzimidazol 1 yl propyl 4 piperidinyl 1,3 dihydro 2H benzimi dazol 2 one and 5 aminosul fonyl N 1 ethyl 2 pyridonyl methyl 2 methoxybenzami de. 7. A method, use, composition or process according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the prolactin secretion stimulating agent is a hydroxyalkyl , hydroxycycloalkyl, alkoxyalkyl , alkoxycyclo alkyl , aminoalkyl , aminocycloalkyl or epoxyalkyl mono , di or trisulfide or ester or carbamate of a hydroxyalkyl or hydroxy cycloalkyl mono , di or trisulfide. 8. A method, use, composition or process according to claim 7 wherein the prolactin secretion stimulating agent is a di or tri sulfide. 9. A method, use, composition or process according to claim 7 wherein the prolactin secretion stimulating agent is selected from the group consisting of 2 mercaptoethanol and 2 hydroxyethyl 4 pyri dylmethyl sulfide. 10. A method, use, composition or process according to claim 8 wherein the prolactin secretion stimulating agent is 2,2 dithio ethanol. 11. A method, use, composition or process according to claim 8 wherein the prolactin secretion stimulating agent is a compound of formula IIEMI26.1 wherein R3 and R4 are, independently, hydrogen or Cl 5alkyl, m and n are, independently, 2 or 3, p is an integer from 2 to 6, and y is 1, 2 or 3, whereby when y is 2 or 3 each p may be the same or different, or ester of such compound wherein Rl and or R2 is hydrogen. 12. A method, use, composition or process according to claim 11 wherein the prolactin secretion stimulating agent is S,S ethylene bis 2 dithioethanol .

## Description
HAIR GROWTH STIMULATING AGENTS AND THEIR USEThe present invention relates to a new use for prolactin secretion stimulating agents, in particular to their use as hair growth stimulating agents, as well as to novel compositions comprising prolactin secretion stimulating agents, for use in the stimulation of hair growth.In accordance with the present invention it has now surprisingly been found that prolactin secretion stimulating agents can be employed to stimulate hair growth, i.e. to stimulate hair formation by dermal hair follicles. In particular it has been found that prolactin secretion stimulating agents stimulate hair growth in cases where diminution or failure of follicular hair growth, including hair loss, is due to ageing, as well as in cases where diminution or failure of follicular hair growth, including hair loss, is morbid or disease related, e.g. consequential to disease, e.g. infection or, in particular, disease having an aetiology comprising disturbance of the immune system.Prolactin secretion stimulating agents can thus be employed in accordance with the method of the invention hereinafter defined, either cosmetically or as an adjunct to medical treatment, e.g. for counteracting hair loss or baldness, e.g. pattern baldness, consequential to the natural process of ageing and whether or not the onset of baldness is premature , as well as for the treatment of disease related hair loss or baldness. Prolactin secretion stimulating agents which may be employed in accordance with the present invention may belong to any of the various classes of compound known in the art capable of increasing prolactin levels within the general body tissue, e.g. by stimulation of prolactin release from the adenohypophysis, including ergot alkaloids, neuroleptic agents and anti emetic agents having prolactin secretion stimulating activity.Ergot alkaloids having prolactin secretion stimulating activity are in particular those of the class described and claimed inEuropean Patent No. 0 000 386, in particular the compound 1,10 oss dimethyl 9,10 dihydroergocristine Wherein COMPOUND A of formula EMI2.1 Preferred neuroleptic and anti emetic agents having prolactin secretion stimulating activity for use in accordance with the present invention are 5 chloro 1 1 3 2,3 dihydro 2 oxo iH benzimidazol 1 yl propyl 4.piperidinyl 1,3 diyhdro 2H benzimi dazol 2 one, also known and commercially available under the Trade Name DOMPERIDONE and 5. aminosulfonyl N L 1 ethyl 2 pyri donyl methyl 2methoxy benzamide, also known and commercially available under the Trade Name SULPIRIDE.A further group of prolactin secretion stimulating agents which have been found to be especially useful as stimulators of hair growth are those compounds which, in addition to stimulating prolactin secretion, are effective as immunostimulants, e.g. which effect in vivo stimulation of both the primary and secondary immuno response. Of particular interest within this group are immunostimulants belonging to the class of mono , di and trisulfide compounds, for example of the various types disclosed inter al. In German Offenlegungsschrift No. 31 18 128 U.K.patent applications nos. 2 083 036 A and 2 111 053 A, European patent no. 0 058 134 and US patent no. 4 246 263.Preferred prolactin secretion stimulating agents for use in accordance with the present invention and belonging to this latter group are hydroxyalkyl , hydroxycycloalkyl , alkoxyalkyl , alkoxycycloalkyl , aminoalkyl , aminocycloalkyl and epoxyalkyl mono , di and trisulfides, as well as esters and carbamates of such hydroxyalkyl and hydroxycycloalkyl mono , di and trisulfides in particular, hydroxyalkyl and hydroxycycloalkyl mono , di and trisulfides, and esters and carbamates thereof and especially C2,3hydroxyalkyl mono , di and trisulfides, and esters and carbamates thereof.Especially preferred mono sulfides as defined above are the compounds of the aforementioned US Patent no. 4 246 263, in particular the compound 2 hydroxyethyl 4 pyridylmethyl sulfide of for mum a EMI4.1 also known and referred to herein as RISTIANOL, as well as the compound 2 mercapto ethanol EHS CH2 CH2 OH herein COMPOUND B .Di and tri sulfides as defined above are for example described together with their use as immunostimulants, in the aforementioned European Patent No. 0 058 134, and UK patent application no. 2 111 053 A, and preferred sub groups of di and tri sulfides for use in accordance with the present invention are as defined therein.An especially preferred sub group defined in UK patent application no. 2 111 053 A for use in accordance with the present invention comprises the di and tri sulfides of formula I R1 S x R2 I whereinR1 is hydroxyalkyl, hydroxycycloalkyl, alkoxyalkyl, alkoxycyclo alkyl, aminoalkyl, aminocycloalkyl or epoxyalkyl especially hydroxyalkyl wherein the hydroxy group is on the 2 position or is terminal, 2 hydroxy cycloalkyl, 2 alkoxyalkyl, 2 alkoxy cycloalkyl, 2 aminoalkyl or 2 epoxyalkyl ,R2 is alkyl or cycloalkyl or has the meanings given for R1 above, andX is 2 or 3 as well as the esters and carbamates of such di or tri sulfides wherein R1 and or R2 is hydroxyalkyl or hydroxycycloalkyl and, most especially, di and tri sulfides of formula I wherein R1 and R2 are, independently, hydroxyalkyl and, in particular, wherein R1 and R2 are, independently, C23 hydroxyalkyl.Particular compounds disclosed in UK patent application no.2 111 053 A suitable for use in accordance with the present invention are COMPOUND C HO CH2 2 S S CH2 2 OH.COMPOUND D HO CH2 3 S S CH2 3 OH.COMPOUND E EMI5.1 COMPOUND F CH30 CH2 2 S S CH2 2 OCH3. COMPOUND G COMPOUND H COMPOUND I COMPOUND J EMI5.2 COMPOUND K CH3O CH2 C CH3 2 S S C CH3 2 CH2 OH. COMPOUND L EMI5.3 COMPOUND M CH3 NH CH2 2 S S CH2 2 NH CH3. COMPOUND N i C3H7 S S CH2 2 OH. COMPOUND 0 t C4H9 S S CH2 2 OH.COMPOUND P EMI5.4 COMPOUND Q COMPOUND R COMPOUND S EMI6.1 COMPOUND T i C3H7 CH i C3H7 S S CH2 2 OH.COMPOUND U CH3 NH CO O CH2 2 S S S CH2 2 O CO NH CH3.COMPOUND V COMPOUND W EMI6.2 Racemate , and Racemate Of the above group of compounds C to W , COMPOUND C 2,2 dithoethanol is especially preferred.Most preferred for use in accordance with the present invention are the di sulfides disclosed in the aforementioned EuropeanPatent No. 0 058 134 of formula IIEMI6.3 wherein R3 and R4 are, independently, hydrogen or C1 salkyl, m and n are, independently, 2 or 3 p is an integer from 2 to 6, and y is 1, 2 or 3, whereby when y is 2 or 3, each p may be the same or different, as well as esters of said compounds wherein R3 and or R4 is hydrogen,Alkyl groups as R3 and R4 in formula II may be branched or, preferably, straight chain. Preferably they contain 1 to 4 carbon atoms, methyl being the most preferred. Most preferably R3 and R4 are the same, e.g. are both hydrogen. m and n are also preferably the same and are most preferably 2. When y is 2 or 3, each p may be different, preferably each p is the same, and more preferably each p is 2.Most conveniently y is 1. Especially preferred are compounds of formula I, wherein y is 1 and p is 2.The most preferred compound for use in accordance with the invention is the compound S,S ethylene bis 2 dithioethanol formulaII, R3 and R4 both H m, n and p all 2 y 1 herein COMPOUND X .Effectiveness of prolactin secretion stimulating agents as hair growth stimulants can be shown in animal models, as well as in trials in humans, for example in accordance with the following methods 1. Stimulation of hair growth in ageing mice Female mice lose back fur as part of the normal process of ageing. Groups of 5 to 15, healthy female mice C57B1 are kept under standard laboratory conditions until extensive or total dorsal hair loss has occurred generally at ca. 40 45 weeks of age . Test substance, e.g. COMPOUND X, is thereafter applied to said mice orally at varying dosages group, the mice in each group receiving test substance at constant dosage, 2x weekly for 3 weeks. During the course of the test the mice are allowed access to food and water ad libitum. At the end of four weeks all test animals are examined and the condition of dorsal hair growth recorded.In the above test, regeneration of dorsal hair is observed in animals employing prolactin secretion stimulating agents as test substance at dosages sufficient to effect stimulation of basal prolactin secretion levels.Thus in the case of mono , di and tri sulfides as hereinbefore set forth, significant stimulation of dorsal hair growth is recorded on oral administration at dosages of from 0.1 to 10 mg kg dose, administered in accordance with the above indicated regimen. Especially good results are obtained employing COMPOUNDX, for which significant stimulation of dorsal hair growth is recorded at dosages of from 0.01 to 10 mg kg dose with the majority of mice exhibiting no signs of baldness at the end of three weeks on administration at dosages of from 1.0 mg kg dose upwards.Similar results are obtained on administration of prolactin secretion stimulating agents of other classes as hereinbefore described, e.g. on administration of DOMPERIDONE, SULPIRIDE orCOMPOUND A, at the same or equivalent dosages. II and III Stimulation of hair growth in humans I. Subjects exhibiting disease related hair loss Test substance, e.g. COMPOUND X, is applied topically to the scalp of volunteers exhibiting hair loss consequent to Hashi moto s disease. The scalps of individual volunteers are examined prior to commencement of the trial and scalp condi tion is recorded. For the purposes of application, the test substance is put up in lanolin, e.g. as described hereinafter in example 3, to give an ointment comprising 1 w w of test substance. Ointment is applied topically to one side of the scalp only of each volunteer. Application is performed lx daily through out the trial period and is distributed with light massage. The condition of the scalp is examined daily and hair growth on the treated half compared with growth on the untreated half. In this trial stimulation of hair growth on the treated half of the scalp as compared with the untreated half is recorded on application of ointments comprising a prolactin secretion stimulating agent as active ingredient. Thus on daily appli cation of 0.5 g of ointment containing COMPOUND X as active ingredient 0.005 g COMPOUND X half scalp day stimulation of hair growth on the treated half of the scalp as compared with the untreated half is recorded after ca. 2 weeks of treatment. After 5 and more weeks of treatment, stimulation of hair growth on the treated half is advanced and hair loss or baldness significantly reduced. No or substantially no change in hair condition is recorded on the untreated side. III. Subjects exhibiting age related hair loss i The methodology of test II is repeated but employing volun teers exhibiting scalp hair loss or baldness consequent to ageing without substantial loss of scalp hair follicles. The medical history of all volunteers is thoroughly checked prior to commencement of the trial and all volunteers are subjected to medical control to ensure that hair loss is not disease related. In addition the scalp of each volunteer is examined to ensure that hair loss is unaccompanied by sub stantial depletion of scalp hair follicles, subjects exhibi ting extensive hair follicle loss being excluded . Results obtained are analogous to those obtained in Trial II above. Thus on application of e.g. COMPOUND X in ointment form at a daily dosage rate as for Trial II, stimulation of hair growth on the treated half of the scalp as compared with the untreated half is recorded after ca. 2 to 4 weeks of treatment. After 5 and more weeks stimulation of hair growth in the treated area is advanced and hair loss or baldness reduced. No, or substantially no change in hair growth is recorded on the untreated side. IV. Subjects exhibiting age related hair loss ii The methodology of test III is repeated. In this case however trial subjects are divided into two groups, one group receiving test substance either topically or systemically, e.g. orally and the other group receiving placebo. At the end of the trial period ca. 2 to 4 weeks scalp hair growth in the two trial groups is compared. In this trial stimulation of scalp hair growth in subjects belonging to the trial group receiving test substance, e.g. COMPOUNDX topically in accordance with the regimen described for trial II or orally at dosages of from 5 to 200 mg 2x weekly, is observed as compared with subjects in the trial group receiving placebo.Comparable results to those obtained with COMPOUND X are obtainable in Trials II, III and IV above on administration of other prolactin stimulating agents, in particular DOMPERIDONE,SULPIRIDE, RISTIANOL and COMPOUNDS A through W at the same or equivalent dosage rates. In the case of e.g. DOMPERIDONE andSULPIRIDE, where topical application is practiced, administration is suitably effected employing a transdermal administration system, e.g. in the presence of a skin penetration enhances as hereinafter described.The present invention accordingly provides a A method of stimulating hair growth in a subject in need of such treatment, which method comprises administering to said subject an effective amount of a prolactin secretion stimula ting agent b The use of a prolactin secretion stimulating agent for the stimulation of hair growth as well as c The use of a prolactin stimulating agent for the manufacture of a composition for use in the stimulation of hair growth.In practicing the method of the present invention, the prolactin secretion stimulating agent may be administered e.g. either systemically, for example orally, or topically, i.e. dermally.However since it will be more commonly desired to stimulate hair growth at a particular site on the body, for example the scalp or part of the scalp, and targeting is more readily effected via topical application, topical application is generally preferred.Moreover topical administration will generally have the advantage of avoiding or reducing likely occurrence of unwanted side reactions, e.g. resultant from the prolactin secretion stimulating agent s regular pharmaceutical utility or utilities.It will be appreciated that where compounds are to be administered other than topically, e.g. orally, they must necessarily be pharmaceutically acceptable, i.e. physiologically tolerable at the dosages administered. Where compounds are to be administered topically they must necessarily be acceptable for topical application. Where compounds are to be administered other than topically, e.g. orally, and these contain groups or groupings which are susceptible to hydrolysis in vivo, i.e. contain physfloQogi cally hydrolysable groupings, as in the case of esters and carba mates as hereinbefore described, these groups or groupings must also be pharmaceutically acceptable, i.e. give rise to metabolic products, e.g. acids and amides, which are themselves physiologically tolerable at desired dosage levels.Prolactin secretion stimulating agents for use in the method of the invention containing one or more acidic or basic groups and which also exist in salt form, e.g. in acid addition salt form, may also be employed either in free or in salt form. Where non topical administration, e.g. oral administration is contemplated, salts used will be pharmaceutically acceptable salts. Where topical administration is contemplated, salt forms used will be acceptable for topical application. Such salt forms are known from the literature and generally have the same or similar order of activity to the free forms.Throughout the present specification and claims references to prolactin secretion stimulating agents as well as to individual compounds and to classes of prolactin secretion stimulating agent are to be interpreted accordingly and are to be understood as including such salt forms as aforesaid where appro prate. Dosage rates to be employed in practicing the method of the present invention will of course vary, depending on a variety of factors including e.g. the particular prolactin secretion stimulating agent employed, the form in which it is employed, the mode of administration in particular whether administration is topical or otherwise the specific condition to be treated e.g.whether morbid, disease related or age related , as well as the effect desired.Where administration is non topical, e.g. systemic, for example oral, dosages will generally be of an order sufficient, as known in the art, to effect prolactin secretion stimulation, e.g. to effect elevation of basal prolactin serum levels. Appropriate dosage rates will accordingly be e.g of similar order or slightly less than those required on administration of the same prolactin secretion stimulating agent via the same route for other known indications.Thus in the case of COMPOUND A, DOMPERIDONE and SULPIRIDE suitable oral dosages for use in accordance with the method of the present invention will be of the order of from about 0.03 mg kg to about 6.5 mg kg COMPOUND A or from about 0.01 to about 1.0 mg kg DOMPERIDONE or from about 0.03 to about 6.5 mg kgSULPIRIDE administered 2x weekly or from about 0.01 mg kg to about 1.0 mg kg COMPOUND A or from about 0.003 to about 0.3 mg kg DOMPERIDONE or from about 0.01 to about 1.0 mg kgSULPIRIDE administered daily.Suitable oral unit dosage forms for use in practicing the method of the invention accordingly comprise In the case of COMPOUND A from about 2.25 to about 500 mg for 2x weekly application or from about 0.75 to about 100 mg for daily application In the case of DOMPERIDONE from about 0.75 to about 75 mg for 2x weekly application or from about 0.25 to about 25 mg for daily application.In the case of SULPIRIDE from about 2.25 to about 500 mg for 2x weekly application or from about 0.75 to about 100 mg for daily application.In the case of mono , di and tri sulfide compounds as hereinbefore defined, e.g. RISTIANOL and, in particular, COMPOUNDS B through W, and especially COMPOUND X, suitable oral dosage rates for use in practicing the method of the present invention are of the order of from about 0.01 to about 10 mg kg administered 2x weekly or of from about .0.005 to about 3 mg kg administered daily. Suitable oral dosage forms for stimulating hair growth in humans accordingly comprise from about 0.75 to about 750 mg, e.g. to about 500 mg for bi weekly application or from about 0.4 to about 200 mg for daily application mono , di or trisulfide, e.g. COMPOUND X, together with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable diluents or carriers therefor.Suitable oral dosage forms include e.g. tablets and capsules as well as liquid dosage forms, e.g. solutions, emulsions and dispersions. These may be prepared in conventional manner, e.g. as described in the examples hereinafter provided.As previously noted however, in practicing the method of the present invention, the active ingredient, i.e. selected prolactin secretion stimulating agent, is preferably administered topically. In the case of mono , di and tri sulfides as hereinbefore defined, e.g. RISTIANOL and compounds C through X inclusive, topical application is in particular preferred. In the case of compounds such as COMPOUND A, DOMPERIDONE and SULPIRIDE systemic application may be indicated as more effective. Furthermore, where topical application is practiced using such compounds, this will suitably be effected employing a transdermal administration system e.g. of the type known in the art, for example by topical application of the active ingredient in conjunction with a skinpenetration enhancer such as hereinafter described. Appropriateness of topical administration is of course dictated by the novel use use in hair growth stimulation provided by the present invention. In that compositions for topical application comprising prolactin secretion stimulating agents as active ingredient are novel and inherent to the novel use for prolactin secretion stimulating agents herein described and claimed, in a further embodiment the present invention also provides A composition for use in the stimulation of hair growth, said composition being formulated or presented so as to provide for, or to permit, convenient dermal application and comprising a prolactin secretion stimulating agent as active component, together with one or more topically applicable diluents or carriers therefor. Preferred prolactin secretion stimulating agents for use in the novel compositions of the invention are as hereinbefore set forth in relation to hair growth stimulation use. Compositions for dermal applicatin in accordance with the present invention may be liquid or solid. Suitable liquid compositions include e.g. solutions, emulsions or dispersions. Suitable solid compositions include e.g. powders and dermally applicable films, e.g. comprising the active ingredient retained within a permeable polymeric film material. In accordance with the invention said compositions are formulated or presented so as to provide for or to permit convenient topical application, e.g. formulated or presented in such a manner as to permit convenient application of active agent i.e. prolactin secretion stimulating agent to predetermined areas of the skin, in predetermined amounts, e.g. without undue loss of active ingredient applied and or without undue inconvenience to the sub ject to be treated. Various forms and systems suitable for the application of active agents topically are known in the art and any appropriate known form or system may be employed in relation to the present inven tion. Liquid compositions formulated in accordance with the present in vention may be free flowing or semi solid. Free flowing forms in clude, e.g. topically applicable lotions and sprays. As known in the art, such free flowing forms will generally comprise a diluent or carrier medium susceptible to rapid evaporation such that the active ingredi4st remains entirely or substantially entirely at the site of application. Preferably liquid compositions formulated in accordance will be semi solid, e.g. be of relatively high viscosity, such that they are distributable over the surface to which they are to be applied but which do not readily spread or run of their own accord. Such forms include e.g. ointments, gels, pastes and creams. Suitably such semi solid compositions will comprise a diluent or carrier medium component susceptible to rapid evaporation, to assist retention of the composition at the site of application.Suitable diluent or carrier medium components susceptible to evaporation, for use in the preparation of liquid compositions, including semi solid compositions, as described above, are in particular topically applicable alcohols volatile at room temperature, for example Cl,qalkanols such as ethanol and iso propanol.Solid compositions formulated in accordance with the present invention are in particular, dermally applicable powders.Alternatively compositions in accordance with the present invention may be presented in such a manner so as to provide for, or to permit, convenient dermal application, e.g. may form the effective component of a dermal application device, such as a plaster, dermal patch, cataplasm or the like.Most preferably compositions in accordance with the invention will be formulated or presented so as to provide for, or to permit, conventional application to the scalp.As noted above, preferred compositions in accordance with the invention are semi solid. Such forms suitably comprise an appropriate base material, e.g. an ointment base for example a hydro carbon oleaginous base such as white petroleum, an absorption arihydrous base such as hydrophilic petrolatum, an emulsion w o type base such as lanolin or cold cream, an emulsion o w type base such as hydrophilic ointment, or a water soluble base such as polyethylene glycol ointment. Suitable base components include e.g. cholesterols, stearyl alcohols, white wax, and white petrolatum.Suitable emulsifier systems in cream formulations may comprise a non ionic, anionic, catonic or amphoteric emulsifier such as sodium lauryl sulfate, polyoxyethylene and polyoxypropylene fatty alcohol ethers, polyoxyethylene fatty acid esters, polyoxyethylene sorbitan fatty acid esters, polyooxyethylene glycol fatty acid esters, polyol fatty acid esters such as glyceryl monostearate and ethoxylated lanolin derivatives.Topical formulations in accordance with the invention may also contain any of the commonly employed preserving agents such as methyl paraben, propyl paraben, benzyl alcohol, sorbic acid or quaternary ammonium compounds. They may also where appopriate contain humectants or skin penetration enhancers such as dimethyl sulfoxide, dimethylacetamide and dimethylformamide.Amounts of active ingredient i.e. prolactin secretion inhibiting agent for use in topical composition may of course vary considerably e.g. in accordance with the various parameters hereinbefore mentioned in relation to non topical application, and in particular depending upon the particular application form employed and the intended frequency of application.In the case of e.g. mono , di and tri sulfide compounds as hereinbefore defined, e.g. RISTIANOL and, in particular COMPOUNDS B through W, and especially COMPOUND X, forms for topical application suitably contain from about 0 of x to about 95.0 more suitably from about 0.05 to about 10 X, especially about 1.0 w w of active ingredient. An effective application rate for topical application of such compounds e.g. of COMPOUND X, is of the order of from 1.0 to 0.01 preferably from 0.5 to 0.05, e.g.ca. 0.1 mg cm2 skin day, and forms for topical administration are appropriately formulated and contain the compound at such a concentration as to permit application at such rate.The following examples are illustrative of compositions suitable for use in accordance with the method of the invention EXAMPLE 1 Production of solid compositions for oral applicationTablets may contain the active agent in admixture with conventional pharmaceutically acceptable excipients, e.g. inert diluents, such as calcium carbonate, sodium carbonate, lactose and talc, granulating and disintegrating agents, e.g. starch and alginic acid, flavouring, colouring and sweetening agent, binding agents, e.g. starch, gelatin and acacia, and lubricating agents, e.g. magnesium stearate, stearic acid and talc. The tablets may be uncoated or coated by known techniques to delay disintegration and absorption in the gastrointestinal tract and thereby provide a sustained action over a long period. For the manufacture of tablets, the active ingredient, can be mixed with lactose and granulated with water, 0.5 sodium alginate or 1 gelatine solution. The dried granulate is compressed into tablets in the presence of about 5 of talcum, 5 of corn starch and 0.1 of magnesium stearate. In this way, there are obtained, e.g. tablets of the following composition Active ingredient, e.g. COMPOUND X ............... 20 mg Lactose ............... 70 mgCorn Starch .. 5 mgTalcum ........................................ 5 mgMagnesium stearate ...... 0.1 mgCapsules may contain the active agent alone or admixed with an inert solid diluent, for example as mentioned above.Capsules containing the ingredient indicated below may be prepared by conventional techniques. Active ingredient, e.g. COMPOUND X 20 mg Inert solid diluent e.g. starch, caolin, calcium phosphate or carbonate, or lactose 20 mgEXAMPLE 2 Production of liquid compositions, for oral applicationSolutions, suspensions, emulsions, dispersions, syrups and elixirs may contain the active agent in admixture with any of the conventional excipients utilized for the preparation of such compositions, e.g. suspending agents methylcellulose, tragacanth and sodium alginate , wetting agents lecithin, polyoxyethylene stearate and polyoxyethylene sorbitan mono oleate flavouring, colouring and sweetening agents and preservatives ethyl hydroxybenzoate . The following pharmaceutical composition is formulated with the indicated amount of active agent using conventional techniques.The suspension is suitably administered 1 or 2 to 4 times per day depending on the full dosage required.Active ingredient 20Sodium carboxy methyl cellulose U.S.P 12.5Flavour q.s.Colouring agent..............................q.s.Methyl paraben, U.S.P 4.5Propyl paraben, U.S.P 1.0Polysorbate 80 e.g. Tween 80 , U.S.P 5Sorbitol solution, 70 , U.S.P 2.500Buffer agent to adjust pH for desired stability q.s.Water q.s. to 5 mlEXAMPLE 3 Production of a composition suitable for topical application Active ingredient, e.g. COMPOUND X 1 g Lanolin 99 gThe lanolin is liquified at 38 to 45 C, the active ingredient dissolves therein, and the whole is allowed to cool. The obtained ointment is used directly for topical application of 0.01 g active ingredient to the scalp day an application rate of ca. 0.1 mg cm2 day. EXAMPLE 4 Compositions suitable for topical applicationCompositions for topical appliation may also be prepared employing the ingredients indicated below. The compositions are formulated in conventional manner, and may contain as additional additives conventional stabilisors, preserving agents, anti oxidants, etc... as required.4a. Active ingredient, e.g. COMPOUND X ........................... 1 g AerosilR 200 , 8 g MiglyolR 812 , 30 g Ethanol 94 to an end weight of , 100 g 4b. Active ingredient, e.g. COMPOUND X....................................1 X 1 9 MiglyolR 812.................................30 812 30 9 Ethylcellulose .......................... 12 g Ethanol absolute to an end weight of 100 g 4c. As example 4a, but employing isopropanol in place of ethanol.4d. As example 4b, but employing isopropanol in place of ethanol.4e. Active ingredient, e.g. COMPOUND X , 1 g Aeros,ilR 200 , ........8 8 g MiglyolR 812.................................50 812 50 9 Ethanol 94 to an end weight of 100 g 4f. Active ingredient, e.g. COMPOUND X....................................... X 1 g MiglyolR 812.....................................5 812 50 9 Ethylcellulose 12 g Ethanol absolute to an end weight of 100 g 49. As example 4a, but with inclusion of 5 g PEG 300 or 5 g propylene glycol.4h. As example 4b, but with inclusion of 5 g PEG 300 or 5 g propylene glycol.4i. Active ingredient, e.g. COMPOUND X...................................... X 1 g Ethanol 94 ................................... 94X 50 g Polyvinylpyridolidone 30 g H20 distilled to an end weight of 100 g 4j. Active ingredient, e.g. COMPOUND X....................................... X 1 g Ethanol 94 ................................... 50 g CarbopolR 934.................................... 1.5 g Diisopropanolamine 1.5 g H20 distilled to an end weight of 100 g MiglyolR 812 a fractionated coconut oil product available from Dynamit Nobel AG c.f. H.P. Fiedler, Lexicon der Hilfsstoffe , 2nd. edition hereinafter F. L.d.H. p. 616. AerosilR 200 a pure silica gel c.f. F. L.d.H., p. 94 PEG polyethyleneglycol CarbopolR 934 an acrylic acid polymer available from W. Biesterfeld Co. c.f. F. L.d.H., p. 206.