# MAGNETIC TRANSDUCER HEAD UTILIZING THE MAGNETORESISTANCE EFFECT

## Claims
Magnetwandlerkopf mit Nutzung des Magnetwiderstandseffekts mit

## Description
The present invention relates to magnetic transducer head magnetoresistance effect, and more particularly to a magnetoresistance effect type magnetic head apparatus. A magnetoresistance hereinafter referred to as MR effect effect type magnetic head apparatus has a head member h with structure as shown in Fig. 1A and Fig. 1B. Fig. 1A is a sectional view of an essential part of an MR head, and Fig. 1B is a plan view thereof. On a magnetic substrate 1 of Ni Zn ferrite or Mn Zn ferrite, or through an insulating layer 2 of SiO₂ etc. on the substrate 1 if it is conductive, a bias conductor 3 of band shaped conductive film is applied and constitutes a bias magnetic field generating current passage to apply a bias magnetic field to an MR sensing element as hereinafter described. An MR sensing element 5 comprising a MR magnetic thin film of Ni Fe alloys or Ni Co alloys is arranged on the bias conductor 3 through an insulating layer 4. A pair of magnetic layers 7 and 8 of Mo permalloy or the like to constitute a magnetic core of part of a magnetic circuit are formed so that the magnetic layers 7 and 8 ride at each one end on the MR sensing element 5 through a thin insulating layer 6 and extend across the bias conductor 3 and the MR sensing element 5. A protective substrate 10 is provided on the substrate 1 through a non magnetic protective layer 9. An operating magnetic gap g is formed between one magnetic layer 7 and the front end of the substrate 1 through a non magnetic gap spacer layer 11 comprising, for example, the insulating layer 6 having a required thickness. Front surface of the substrate 1, the gap spacer layer 11, the magnetic layer 7, the protective layer 9 and the protective substrate 10 is polished thereby an opposing surface 12 to a magnetic recording medium is formed for the magnetic gap g to face thereto. The rear end of the magnetic layer 7 which constitutes the magnetic gap g and the front end of other magnetic layer 8 are formed to ride on the MR sensing element 5 through the insulating layer 6, and both ends are spaced from each other by a discontinuous portion 13. The rear end of the magnetic layer 7 and the front end of the magnetic layer 8 are electrically insulated from the MR sensing element 5 by the insulating layer 6 but magnetically connected. The discontinuous portion 13 between both magnetic layers 7 and 8 is magnetically connected by the MR sensing element 5, so that a magnetic circuit is formed around the substrate 1 the magnetic gap g the magnetic layer 7 the MR sensing element 5 the magnetic layer 8 the substrate 1. Fig. 2 shows an enlarged sectional view of a MR type head apparatus of so called shield type as another example. In the head apparatus of Fig. 2, a bias conductor 3 and an MR sensing element 5 opposed thereto are disposed between high permeability magnetic bodies 60 and 61 such as ferrite through a non magnetic layer 62, and one end surface is polished so as to form a tape opposing surface 12. In such a MR type magnetic head apparatus, signal magnetic flux from the front gap g opposed to the magnetic recording medium flows in the MR element through the above mentioned magnetic circuit in case of the MR head of Fig. 1A, or directly in the MR element in case of Fig. 2, whereby the resistance value of the MR sensing element 5 varies in response to the external magnetic field by the signal magnetic flux. Variation of the resistance value is detected as voltage variation across the MR sensing element 5, while a sensing current flows through the MR sensing element 5 thereby reproduction of the recording signal on the magnetic recording medium is effected. In this case, the MR sensing element 5 must be magnetically biased in order that the MR sensing element 5 acts linearly as a magnetic sensor of high sensitivity. The bias magnetic field is applied by a magnetic field generated by energizing the bias conductor 3 and a magnetic field generated by the detecting current itself flowing through the MR sensing element 5. In the MR type magnetic head apparatus as clearly seen in a schematic constitution of Fig. 3, the MR sensing element 5 is applied with the magnetic field generated, while a prescribed d.c. current i Fig. 4 shows a working characteristic curve of the MR sensing element 5 illustrating the relation between the magnetic field H and the resistance value R. It is clear from Fig. 4 that the resistance R follows a parabolic curve that is convex upwards in the range of the magnetic field H and small in absolute value, i.e. H In the MR type magnetic head apparatus, the potential at point A of Fig. 3 is determined by the composition of a fixed component and a variable component of the resistance in the MR sensing element 5. Since the fixed component in this case attains about 98 and is largely dependent on temperature, the temperature drift of the potential at point A becomes large. The resistance value R in the MR sensing element 5 is represented by the following formula. The measured value of the temperature coefficient a in the above example of the MR sensing element 5 is about a 0.0027 deg. This may produce large noise at detecting the d.c. magnetic field. In order to avoid the temperature dependence in the MR magnetic head apparatus, usually a differential circuit arrangement to cancel the temperature dependence must be provided. Moreover, in such a MR type magnetic head element, since the temperature coefficient is large as above described, for example, when heat generated by energizing the MR sensing element 5 or by the bias current flow through the bias conductor 3 is radiated unstably by friction of the heat element with the magnetic recording medium such that the head temperature varies, large noise, so called rubbing noise may be produced. If the amplifier 14 in Fig. 3 has a low impedance input, assuming that the cut off frequency of the capacitor 16 is f wherein ω If the MR sensing element 5 is made of permalloy with a thickness of 25 nm and a length of 50 µm, the resistance value R becomes about 120 Ω. If f The permeability in a magnetic circuit, particularly that in the magnetic layers 7 and 8 having relatively small thickness and sectional area, is preferably as large as possible. Since the permeability becomes a maximum when the external magnetic field is zero, application of the above mentioned bias magnetic field lowers the permeability. The above mentioned MR type magnetic head apparatus in a d.c. bias system is advantageous in that the effective track width is large and a narrow track can be easily achieved. On the other hand, it is a disadvantage that the linearity is bad, the d.c. reproduction is difficult, the rubbing noise is large, the Barkhausen noise is large, and the dispersion of the output is large. The linearity can be improved with a circuit arrangement as disclosed in GB A 2 037 474. Instead of using a d.c. current, a pulsed current is supplied to the bias conductor thus periodically shifting the working point of the parabolic working curve between the positive and negative part thereof. The amplified output of the transducer head is connected to two sample and hold circuits S H circuits operative in synchronism with the pulsing of the biasing means such that the first S H circuit samples a signal representing the resistance of the magnetoresistance element each time the biasing conductor biases this element to operate from the first operating point, and the second S H circuit samples a signal representing the resistance of the magnetoresistance element each time the biasing conductor biases the element to operate from the second operating point. The outputs of the two S H circuits are fed to respective opposite polarity inputs of a differential amplifier, and the output of this amplifier is low pass filtered to derive an output signal with higher linearity due to the common mode rejection of the differential amplifier and with lower temperature effects influencing the magnetoresistance element. In the prior art, a MR type magnetic head apparatus, particularly for removing the second harmonic distortion of the output signal with a simpler construction has also been proposed. Such a magnetic head apparatus will now be described referring to Fig. 5. A head member h is composed of a MR sensing element 5 with the neutral point grounded and two parts 5a, 5b having equal characteristics, and of a bias conductor 3 with the neutral point grounded and two parts 3a, 3b having equal characteristics. Both ends of the MR sensing element 5 are supplied with the same detecting current i However, the MR type magnetic head apparatus of Fig. 5 in the prior art has the following disadvantages Since an equalization of the characteristics at the two parts 5a, 5b of the MR sensing element 5 in high accuracy is difficult and the equalization of the magnetic field to the two parts 5a, 5b of the MR sensing element 5 in high accuracy is also difficult to achieve, an offset may be produced in the output signal. Since a non sensitive region is produced at the border between two parts of the MR sensing element 5, the width of the head element 5 cannot be narrowed appreciably and therefore a multi channel magnetic head cannot be implemented easily. Increase of the number of leads for the element also makes the implementation of a multi channel apparatus difficult. A MR type magnetic head apparatus of a barber pole type also has been proposed. In this case, a number of conductor bars of gold or the like in parallel to each other are adhered to the MR sensing element in the MR type magnetic head element in oblique direction to the longitudinal direction of the MR sensing element. The MR magnetic apparatus of the barber pole type is advantageous in that the dispersion of the output is little and the circuit may be constituted by an amplifier only. On the other hand, it is a disadvantage that the d.c. reproduction is difficult, the rubbing noise is large, a narrow track cannot be implemented easily, and the effective track width is not large enough. It is an object of the invention to provide a magnetoresistance effect type magnetic transducer head superior in its linearity of response, having improved suppression of the second harmonic distortion, a good temperature stability and an improved dynamic range. It is another object of the present invention to provide and improved multi channel magnetoresistance effect magnetic transducer head. A magnetic transducer head utilizing the magnetoresistance effect, in accordance with the invention, comprises In accordance with a preferred embodiment said multiplying in said multiplying means is carried out by alternately switching in synchronism with said high frequency signal between the outputs from said two sensing elements and a respectively inverted signal from said sensing elements. The outputs of said switching elements are then supplied to the said two low pass filter means. Embodiments of the invention will be described in the following with reference to the accompanying drawings in which The principle of improving the operating characteristics of a MR type magnetic head will now at first be described referring to Fig. 6. Since this MR type head element h has a similar constitution to that described in Fig. 1 and Fig. 3, parts in Fig. 6 corresponding to Fig. 1 and Fig. 3 are designated by the same reference numerals and the repeated description shall be omitted. In a bias conductor 3 of the head element h, a small a.c. bias current i In a magnetic head apparatus of such a constitution, if the external magnetic field signal magnetic field bias magnetic field shown in Fig. 8A is applied to the MR sensing element 5, an output shown in Fig 8B, where a carrier of the frequency f In the magnetic head apparatus of the invention, since an output via linear operation characteristics of the MR sensing element 5 corresponding to the differential of the original operation characteristics curve of the second order is taken out, a distortionless reproduction signal can be obtained. Even if the fixed component of the resistance of the MR sensing element is largely dependent on temperature, the characteristics of the differential of the performance characteristics curve of the MR sensing element can eliminate the influence of the temperature dependence of the fixed component and thus reduce the temperature drift significantly. Since the temperature dependence of the fixed component of the resistance of the MR sensing element 5 is eliminated as above described, noise caused by rubbing with the magnetic recording medium can be improved as well. Further, since only the frequency f The circuit configuration according to Fig. 9 of a MR type magnetic head provides for some further improvements. Parts in Fig. 9 corresponding to Fig. 6 are designated by the same reference numerals and the repeated description shall be omitted. In this case, a bias conductor 3 is not supplied with a d.c. bias current but with an a.c. bias current i In this case, the MR operation characteristics curve is a parabolic curve, and the resistance value R where ΔR If the MR detecting current is represented by I, the output V t of the MR sensing element 5 becomes From the above formulae 4 , 5 , 6 , it follows that Next, the value of V t and a signal having the same phase and frequency as that of the a.c. bias magnetic field H Then, the output V Consequently, the output voltage V Thus, a voltage proportional to the signal magnetic field H According to the above, an output corresponding to the polarity of the external magnetic field can be taken out. In addition, the dynamic range becomes large. Further, in this case, if the magnetic bias comprises an a.c. component only, a decrease of permeability of the magnetic circuit caused by the d.c. bias magnetic field can be avoided. A first embodiment of the invention will now be described referring to Fig. 11. In this embodiment, the above mentioned MR head is used in a multi channel structure and a part of the circuit is commonly used so as to simplify the constitution. In Fig. 11, symbols h₁, h₂ designate first and second head elements, respectively, which have first and second bias conductors 3₁, 3₂ and first and second MR sensing elements 5₁, 5₂ in similar structure as Fig. 1. A detecting d.c. current i Numerals 16 and 19 designate a capacitor and an amplifier, respectively, to constitute a signal taking out means 30. Composite outputs of the first and second MR sensing elements 5₁, 5₂ pass through the capacitor 16 commonly and are supplied to the amplifier 19. Outputs Y of the high pass filter 19 are supplied to first and second multipliers 22₁, 22₂ and multiplied with the sine wave and cosine wave signals X₁, X₂, respectively. The multiplied outputs X₁ x Y, X₂ x Y are supplied to first and second low pass filters 21₁, 21₂, respectively, whereby first and second output terminals 15₁, 15₂ are supplied with first and second signal outputs corresponding to the first and second signal magnetic fields H The operation of the embodiment of Fig. 11 will be analyzed by using mathematical formulae. Assume that the maximum resistance of the MR sensing element is R The bias magnetic fields H The frequency spectrum of H Considering only the variable component of the output of the MR sensing element, the following formula is obtained Substituting the formula 2 for Hn, the following formula is obtained When the MR sensing elements 5₁, 5₂ are connected in series, the variable component V Assuming that formula 22 is represented as follows Substituting formulae 17 , 18 for formula 23 , the formula 23 is transformed as follows The voltage V If the output Z₁ passes through the low pass filter 21₁ and the ω components or more are cut off, it follows that the As a result, the output V₁ of the filter 21₁ is represented by the following formula Also the output V₂ of the filter 21₂ is represented by the following formula Another embodiment of the invention will now be described referring to Fig. 12. Parts in Fig. 12 corresponding to Fig. 11 are designated by the same reference numerals and the repeated description shall be omitted. In this embodiment, the sine wave cosine wave oscillator 29A in Fig. 11 is replaced by a rectangular wave generator 29B which generates first and second rectangular wave signals having the same frequency and phase difference of 90 with each other. A signal taking out means 30 is composed of a capacitor 16 and an amplifier 19. First and second multipliers 22₁, 22₂ are replaced by an inverter 24 and first and second switches 25₁, 25₂ where an inverted or a non inverted output, respectively, of the amplifier 19 is alternately derived by controlling the switches by the first and second rectangular signals having phase difference of 90 with each other. The outputs of the first and second change over switches 25₁, 25₂ are supplied to first and second low pass filters 21₁, 21₂, respectively. The MR type magnetic head apparatus in both examples of the invention comprises first and second magnetoresistance effect sensing elements MR sensing elements 5₁, 5₂ to which first and second signal magnetic fields H With such a circuit arrangement, the composite signal of signal outputs corresponding to the first and second signal magnetic fields is supplied from the outputs of the first and second MR sensing elements 5₁, 5₂ by the common signal taking out means 30, the composite signal is supplied to the first and second multiplying means 22₁, 22₂ and multiplied to first and second a.c. signals in synchronization with the first and second a.c. bias magnetic field to be applied to the first and second MR sensing elements 5₁, 5₂ and having the same frequency and phase difference of 90 with each other, and the multiplying outputs are supplied to the first and second low pass filters 21₁, 21₂, thereby the first and second signal outputs corresponding the first and second signal magnetic fields H