# SEMICONDUCTOR INTEGRATED CIRCUIT DEVICE

## Claims
Integrierte Halbleiterschaltungsvorrichtung mit einer Vielzahl von Einheitszellen in einem Halbleitersubstrat 56 , wobei jede Einheitszelle verschiedene Funktionsschaltkreise umfaßt, die aus komplementären MOSFET Strukturen derart hergestellt sind, daß in jeder Einheitszelle ein Muldenbereich 57 an einer der Hauptoberflächen des Halbleitersubstrats 56 ausgebildet ist, wobei der Muldenbereich einen Leitfähigkeitstyp entgegengesetzt zu dem des Substrats 56 aufweist, wobei die komplementären MOSFET Strukturen in dem Muldenbereich 57 und in dem Substrat 56 ausgebildet sind und eine erste isolierende Schicht, die auf der Hauptoberfläche ausgebildet ist, zumindest eine Gateelektrode 43A, 43B , die aus polykristallinem Silizium in der ersten isolierenden Schicht ausgebildet ist, eine zweite isolierende Schicht, die zumindest eine Gateelektrode 43A, 43B überdeckt, eine erste Metallverdrahtungsschicht 52 , die auf der zweiten isolierenden Schicht ausgebildet ist, eine dritte isolierende Schicht, die die erste Metallverdrahtungsschicht 53 überdeckt, und eine zweite Metallverdrahtungsschicht 54 umfaßt, die auf der dritten isolierenden Schicht ausgebildet ist, wobei die zumindest eine Gateelektrode 43A, 43B elektrisch mit der ersten Metallverdrahtungsschicht 52 mittels einer Kontaktöffnung 55 verbunden ist, die in der zweiten isolierenden Schicht ausgebildet ist und wobei die erste Metallverdrahtungsschicht 52 nacheinander elektrisch mit der zweiten Metallverdrahtungsschicht 54 mittels einer Kontaktöffnung 53 , die in der dritten isolierenden Schicht ausgebildet ist, verbunden ist derart, daß die Kontaktöffnungen 53, 55 zwischen komplementären MOSFETs in der Nähe der Grenzfläche 50 zwischen dem Substrat 56 und dem Muldenbereich 57 angeordnet sind.

## Description
The present invention relates to a semiconductor integrated circuit which is automatically designed by using computer and, more particularly, to a large scale integrated circuit LSI manufactured using an aluminum wiring multilayer technique. Automatic design of LSIs of this type is described in, e.g. IEEE Custom Integrated Circuits Conference CH1726 9 82 pp. 111 114, 1982, and in Japanese Patent Application No. 51 74627 by the same applicant as of the present invention. Fig. 1 schematically shows a plan view of a conventional LSI pattern. Each of the wiring regions channel regions 12 1, 12 2,... is disposed between each two adjacent cell arrays 11 1, 11 2, 11 3,... Each of the cell arrays 11 1, 11 2, 11 3,... is constructed by unit cells logic circuit cells 11A, 11B, 11C,... including various function circuits. These unit cells 11A, 11B, 11C,... are connected through the above channel regions 12 1, 12 2,... When wiring must be formed across the cell arrays, it is formed in the gaps 13 through regions between each two adjacent unit cells. Figs. 2A and 2B respectively show pattern structures of an inverter circuit 11a as an example of the unit cells. Fig. 2A is a pattern plan view, and Fig. 2B is a sectional view taken along a line X X of Fig. 2A. Impurity diffusion regions 15 1 and 15 2 as source and drain regions of a MOS transistor are formed on a semiconductor substrate 14. A gate insulating film 16 is formed on the semiconductor substrate 14 between the impurity diffusion regions 15 1 and 15 2. A gate electrode 17 is formed on the gate insulating film 16. Aluminum wiring layers 18 1 and 18 2 are formed on the impurity diffusion regions 15 1 and 15 2, respectively, so as to form contacts. A field oxide film 19 is selectively formed on the semiconductor substrate 14. An output wiring layer 20 of polysilicon is formed on the field oxide film 19. The wiring formed in the through regions 13 is formed by a polysilicon layer 21 on the field oxide film 19, as shown in Fig. 2C. Wiring layers 22 1 and 22 2 for supplying a power source voltage to the unit cells are formed of aluminum layers. Since the unit cells with the above structure are laterally or longitudinally aligned so as to construct the cell array, in the semiconductor integrated circuit device shown in Fig. 1, the wiring layers parallel to the cell arrays 11 1, 11 2, 11 3,... aligned along the X direction are formed of aluminum wiring layers A1 to A3 and the wiring layers perpendicular thereto Y direction are formed of polysilicon wiring layers P1 to P4. Note that the aluminum wiring layers A1 to A3 and the polysilicon wiring layers P1 to P4 are connected by contact portions 10 1 to 10 5. The above structure has the following disadvantages. First, high speed operation is prevented by the resistance of the polysilicon wiring layer. This is because the sheet resistance of a polysilicon film is several tens of ohms and is 100 times or more than that of the aluminum film. This wiring resistance causes a transfer delay of signals. The transfer delay is increased when the length of the through wiring layer formed of polysilicon is increased. When the output wiring layer is formed of polysilicon, the transfer delay of signals is further increased by the resistance thereof. As shown in Fig. 3, in the circuit arrangement having four fan outs with respect to an inverter circuit 23, assume that an output resistance of the output wiring layer is represented by R0, input resistances of the input wiring layers connected to the next stage are represented by R1 to R4, a load capacitance of the wiring layers is represented by C0, load capacitances of the gates of the next stage are represented by C1 to C4, signal transmission time from a point A to a point C is represented by T1, and signal transmission time from a point B to a point C is represented by T2. The times T1 and T2 are respectively approximated by using the following equations 1 and 2 Second, when the wiring layer is formed across the cell arrays, through regions are required between each two adjacent unit cells. This prevents high integration. Third, when positions of the through wiring layers are determined, positions of the unit cells are undesirably shifted. Thus, neither the optimum position of the through wiring layer nor the optimum algorithm of the wiring layers between the unit cells can be achieved. As a result, the wiring layers cannot be highly integrated. This can be easily understood from a comparison between wiring algorithms in the case wherein the positions of the unit cells are not shifted and in the case wherein the positions of the unit cells are shifted every time the through wiring layers are formed in automatic wiring. As described above, in a conventional semiconductor integrated circuit device a high speed and highly integrated device cannot be obtained. GB A 2 089 120 relates to a concept of metallisation for the production of integrated circuit devices in which the components of the integrated circuit are arranged in cells which are all identical and assembled in a matrix. Components of adjacent cells are interconnected by a metallic sub network forming blocks representing predetermined logic functions. The blocks have input output terminals at predetermined points, by which they are interconnected by a metallic sub network. The cells and blocks each have a symmetry with respect to the two axes of the matrix, so that the metallisation is minimal and the distribution may be more concentrated. EP A 0 012 209 describes a semiconductor integrated circuit device wherein electrical contact between an active region and a second metallisation layer is provided by a first metallisation layer which contacts the first metallisation layer and the active layer via holes provided in the intervening insulating layers. It is therefore, an object of the present invention to provide a high speed and highly integrated semiconductor integrated circuit device. According to the present invention, there is provided a semiconductor integrated circuit device as described in claim 1. With this arrangement, transfer delay of signals due to a wiring resistance can be reduced and no through region is needed, thus providing a high speed and highly integrated semiconductor integrated circuit device. This invention can be more fully understood from the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 4 schematically shows a pattern plan view of a semiconductor integrated circuit device. This device is configurated using the building block technique. Each of the wiring regions channel regions 12 1, 12 2,... is disposed between each two adjacent cell arrays 11 1, 11 2, 11 3,... Each of the cell arrays 11 1, 11 2, 11 3 is constructed by unit cells 11A, 11B, 11C,... as logic circuit blocks comprising various function circuits. An output wiring layer of the unit cell 11A extends into the channel region 12 1 in the Y direction by a second aluminum wiring layer L1. The wiring layer L1 is connected through a contact region 24 1 to one end of a first aluminum wiring layer L2 which extends in the X direction. One end of a polysilicon wiring layer L3 is connected to the other end of the wiring layer L2 through a contact region 24 2. The polysilicon wiring layer L3 corresponds to an input gate of the unit cell 11P extending in the Y direction. One end of a second aluminum wiring layer L4 is connected to the first aluminum wiring layer L2 through a contact region 24 3. The wiring layer L4 extends in the Y direction through an insulating film on the unit cell 11I. The other end of the second aluminum wiring layer L4 is connected through a contact region 24 4 to one end of a first aluminum wiring layer extending in the X direction. The other end of the wiring layer L5 is connected to one end of a polysilicon wiring layer L6 extending in the Y direction through a contact region 24 5. The other end of the polysilicon wiring layer L6 is connected to an input gate of the unit cell 11N. A portion of the second aluminum wiring layer in the unit cell is isolated from the through wiring layer. An output line of the unit cell 11A for generating a signal is formed of the second aluminum wiring layer. For this reason, as shown in Figs. 5A and 5B, a tap 25 using the second aluminum wiring layer is formed on a first aluminum wiring layer 29 as an output drain, and contacts the first and second aluminum wiring layers. The same reference numerals as in Figs. 2A and 2B denote the same parts in Figs. 5A and 5B, and a detailed description thereof is omitted. A second aluminum wiring layer 28 formed on an insulating layer 27 serves as an output wiring layer connecting an output terminal provided in the unit cell 11A to other wiring layers. The second aluminum wiring layer 28 also serves as the through wiring layer. In this case, wiring layers 22 1 and 22 2 formed of the first aluminum layers connect the cell unit to a power supply. With this arrangement, since the output and through wiring layers of the unit cell are formed of aluminum layers having a low resistance, the output resistance R0 can be reduced and signal delay time is decreased, and high speed operation can be obtained. Since the second aluminum layers are used as the through wiring layers so as to extend on the unit cell, a space constituting a through region therebetween is not required, and high integration can be achieved. Furthermore, since the positions of the unit cells are not shifted to allow for the through wiring layers, an optimum wiring algorithm can be easily achieved, thereby obtaining highly integrated wiring layers. Furthermore, as an additional advantage, when the two aluminum wiring layers are used, the polysilicon wiring layers can overlap the second aluminum wiring layers without short circuiting and different signal lines can be formed on a single mesh wiring track , thus achieving highly integrated wiring layers. When the second aluminum wiring layers are used as the output signal line from the unit cell, it can be formed on the drain of the unit cell. As a result, regions shown in Fig. 2 for connecting the first aluminum wiring layers and the polysilicon wiring layers in order to generate the output drain from the unit cells are not needed, and a pattern area of each unit cell can be reduced, as shown in Fig. 5. In the above device the second aluminum wiring layers are used as the through wiring layers and the output wiring layers from the unit cell. However, the first aluminum wiring layers can be used instead of these layers. Fig. 6 shows another semiconductor integrated circuit device. In the above device, the second aluminum wiring layers are used for the through wiring layers and are formed on the unit cells through the insulating layer, and the second aluminum wiring layers are used for the output wiring layers from the unit cells. In this case, a polysilicon wiring layer L7 is used for the output wiring layer from the unit cell 11A. The same reference numerals as in Fig. 4 denote the same parts in Fig. 6, and a detailed description thereof is omitted. With this arrangement, when the through wiring layers are formed, an isolated region in the unit cell across which the wiring layer cannot be formed is not required, thus allowing the through wiring layers to be formed with respect to the overall region of the cell array. Therefore, the wiring algorithm can be more easily achieved in comparison to the device described with reference to Fig. 4. Fig. 7 shows still another semiconductor integrated circuit device. In this device, first aluminum wiring layers L8, L9, L10, and L11 are used for wiring layers along the Y direction, and second aluminum wiring layers L12 and L13 are used for wiring layers along the x direction. No polysilicon wiring layer is used between the unit cells. These wiring layers are connected through contact regions 30 1 to 30 5. The second aluminum wiring layer L12 is connected to the first aluminum wiring layers L8, L9, and L10 through contact regions 30 1, 30 2, and 30 3, respectively. The second aluminum wiring layer L13 is connected to the first aluminum wiring layers L9 and L11 through contact regions 30 4 and 30 5, respectively. With the above arrangement, since the first aluminum wiring layers along the Y direction cross power supply aluminum wiring layers in the unit cells, second aluminum wiring layers 31 1 and 31 2 are used for power supply lines, as shown in a pattern plan view of Fig. 8. Note that reference numerals 32 1 to 32 6 denote first aluminum wiring layers and 33, a polysilicon wiring layer. With this arrangmement, when the wiring layers cross the cell array, a through region 13 is required. However, since the through wiring layer L9 and the output wiring layer L8 of the unit cell are formed of the aluminum wiring layers, a high speed device can be obtained. Fig. 9 shows an embodiment of the present invention. A difference between the device shown in Fig. 7 and the embodiment shown in Fig. 9, is that the second aluminum wiring layers are used for wiring layers along the Y direction, and the first aluminum wiring layers are used for wiring layers along the X direction, and the wiring layers are connected to the input and output terminals at the center of each unit cell. Fig. 10 shows a 2 input NOR gate as an example of the unit cell shown in Fig. 9. Fig. 11 shows a pattern plan view when the 2 input NOR gates of Fig. 10 construct a complementary device using MOSFETs. Fig. 12 is an enlarged view of a contact region 49 in Fig. 11. Fig. 13 is a sectional view taken along a line Z Z of Fig. 12. Polycrystalline gate electrodes 43A and 43B are formed on regions of a semiconductor substrate for forming p channel MOSFETs 41A and 41B and n channel MOSFETs 42A and 42B, respectively. The gate electrodes 43A and 43B are formed so as to extend through the cell arrays. P type impurity diffusion regions 44 1 and 44 2 as a source and a drain of the MOSFET 41A are formed at two sides of the MOSFET 41A. The impurity diffusion region 44 2 also serves as a source of the MOSFET 41B. A p type impurity diffusion region 44 3 is formed as the drain of the MOSFET 41B. An n type impurity diffusion region 45 1 is formed as the source of the MOSFET 42A, an n type impurity diffusion region 45 2 is formed as a common drain of the MOSFETs 42A and 42B, and an n type impurity diffusion region 45 3 is formed as the source of the MOSFET 42B. The impurity diffusion region 44 1 is connected through a contact portion 46 1 to a power supply line 47 1 formed of the first aluminum wiring layer. The impurity diffusion region 44 3 is connected to one end of a first aluminum wiring layer 47 through a contact portion 46 2. The other end of the first aluminum wiring layer 47 is connected to the impurity diffusion region 45 2 through a contact portion 46 3. A contact region 51 is formed in the first wiring layer 47 on a boundary between a side end portion of a well region and the semiconductor substrate indicated by an alternate long and short dashed line 50 , and contacts the first aluminum layer 47 including a contact region 46 4. The impurity diffusion regions 45 1 and 45 2 are connected to a ground line 47 2 formed of the first aluminum wiring layer 47 through contact regions 46 5 and 46 6, respectively. In Fig. 13 a first aluminum wiring layer 52 is connected to a second aluminum wiring layer 54 through a contact hole 53 and is connected to the gate electrode 43A of the polycrystalline silicon film through a contact hole 55. The contact region 49 is formed on a boundary between an n type semiconductor substrate 56 and one end portion of a well region 57 formed in one major surface of the substrate 56 indicated by the alternate long and short dashed line 50 . The contact region 49 of the unit cell with the above structure will be described hereinafter. An input signal is supplied to the unit cell through the second aluminum wiring layer, and is connected to the first aluminum wiring layer through the contact region 49. Furthermore, the input signal is supplied to the gate electrode. An output signal is supplied to the contact region 51 through the contact portion 46 4 from the first aluminum wiring layer 47 connecting the p type and n type impurity diffusion regions 44 3 and 45 2. With this arrangement, connections between the first and second aluminum wiring layers and between the wiring layer of the first aluminum layer and the gate electrodes 43A and 43B are formed on the boundary between the semiconductor substrate and the side end portion of the p type well region through a field oxide film. Therefore, additional space is not required. Thus, higher integration can be achieved in comparison to the case where contacts are formed at two sides of the unit cell, as shown in Fig. 8. In addition, within the same pattern area, a channel width of the MOSFET can be enlarged, increase a mutual conductance gm the MOSFET. As described above, a contact between the gate electrodes 43A and 43B and the second aluminum wiring layers is formed on a junction region between the side end portion of the well region and the semiconductor substrate. For this reason, signal transmission to the gates at the p channel and n channel sides can be performed at substantially the same speed and along the shortest path, thereby realizing a high speed operation. Furthermore, since only the first and second aluminum wiring layers are used for the wiring regions outside the unit cells, in order to increase a mutual conductance gm of the MOSFETs, the gate electrodes 43A and 43B and the sources and drains 44 1 to 44 3 and 45 1 to 45 3 can extend outside the respective unit cells outside the power supply line 47 1 and the ground line 47 2 , as shown in Fig. 14. The same reference numerals in Fig. 14 denote the same parts in Fig. 11. In this case, wiring regions of the first and second aluminum wiring layers are formed on the gate electrodes 43A and 43B and the sources and drains 44 1 to 44 3 and 45 1 to 45 3 through the insulating layer so as to facilitate high integration. In the embodiments described with reference to Figs. 9 to 14, the contact hole 55 for connecting the polycrystalline silicon layer 43A and the first aluminum wiring layer 52 and the contact hole 53 for connecting the second aluminum wiring layer 54 and the wiring layer 52 are formed at different positions. However, as shown in Fig. 15, the contact holes 53 and 55 can be aligned also vertically. In other words, the contact hole 53 can be formed on the contact hole 55. Since the positions of the contact holes 53 and 55 coincide with each other, easier pattern layout can be performed in comparison to the above embodiments. In the above embodiments, connections between the first and second aluminum wiring layers and the gate electrodes are formed on the boundary region between the semiconductor substrate and the side end portion of the well region. The present invention is not limited to this. For example, the first and second aluminum wiring layers and the gate electrodes can be connected at positions slightly separated from the boundary between the semiconductor substrate and the well region. This modification will be described hereinafter with reference to pattern plan views shown in Figs. 16A and 16B. Note that Fig. 16A shows a case wherein the contacts are provided at two sides of the unit cell, and Fig. 16B shows a case wherein the contact is provided at a position in the vicinity of the boundary between the semiconductor substrate and the well region. In Figs. 16A and 16B, reference symbol W1 denotes a distance between a side end portion of the well region and prospective regions of the sources and the drains and the gate electrodes in the surface region of the well region or that of the semiconductor substrate . Reference symbol W2 denotes a width required for connecting the second and first aluminum wiring layers and the gate electrodes. Reference symbol W3 denotes a distance between the side end portion of the well region and an edge of the contact hole. Assuming that a sum of the width required for the boundary region between the semiconductor substrate and the well region and the width required for connecting the first and second aluminum wiring layers and the gate electrodes is given by Yi, in Figs. 16A and 16B, the following equations are respectively provided It should be noted that in the above embodiments, aluminum is used for the material of the first and second metal wiring layers. However, other metals having a low resistance can be used instead of aluminum. In the above embodiments, the case wherein a two layered metal wiring layer is applied to a single semiconductor integrated circuit device configurated by using the building block technique has been described. However, as shown in Fig. 17, a semiconductor integrated circuit device 100 formed in accordance with the above embodiments can be connected to a function block 110 having a local system function and a semiconductor memory 120 such as a RAM, ROM, and the like. The output from the device 100 is obtained through a second aluminum wiring layer 101 and is connected to one end of a first aluminum wiring layer 103 through a contact portion 102. The other end of the wiring layer 103 is connected to one end of a second aluminum wiring layer 105 through a contact portion 104. The other end of the wiring layer 105 is connected to one end of a first aluminum wiring layer 107 through a contact portion 106. The other end of the wiring layer 107 is connected to an input gate polysilicon layer of the memory 120 through a contact portion 108. The output from the memory 120 is obtained through a second aluminum wiring layer 121 and is connected to one end of a first aluminum wiring layer 123 through a contact portion 122. The other end of the wiring layer 123 is connected to an input gate polysilicon layer of the function block 110 through a contact portion 124. With this arrangement, signal transmission delay time between the device 100, the function block 110 and the memory 120 can be reduced, thus achieving high speed operation.