# Clasp earring.

## Abstract
A clasp earring comprises a low height U shaped part 1 to the ends of which are fixed two aligned halves 7 of an ornamental trimming, e.g. in the form of an arrow. The two halves 7 are blunted at their facing edges 9 which are spaced apart and the space 8 is disposed in front of a pressing part of the bottom of the part 1 . The pressing part is e.g. a discoidal end 5 of a screw 3 having a handling head 4 , the screw 3 being housed in an internally screw threaded neck 2 .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A clasp earring characterised by comprising a low height U shaped part 1 to the ends of which are fixed two aligned halves 7 of an ornamental trimming representing a perforating object, the two halves 7 being blunted at their facing edges 9 which are spaced apart and the space 8 being disposed in front of a pressing part 5, 10 at the bottom of the U shaped part 1 whereby in wear on an ear lobe 6 , the ear lobe 6 protrudes through the space 8 and the trimming appears to pierce the ear lobe 6 . 2. A clasp earring according to claim 1, characterised in that the pressing part is a discoidal end 5 of a screw 3 having a handling head 4 , the screw 3 being housed in an internally threaded neck 2 . 3. A clasp earring according to claim 1, characterised in that the part 1 is flexible and the pressing part is a deflection 10 .

## Description
CLASP EARRINGDescription This invention relates to a clasp earring. The invention is characterised by comprising a low height U shaped part to the ends of which are fixed two aligned halves of an ornamental trimming representing a perforating object the two halves being blunted at their facing edges which are spaced apart and the space being disposed in front of a pressing part at the bottom of the U shaped part, whereby, in wear on an ear lobe, the ear lobe protrudes through the space and the trimming appears to pierce the ear lobe. The pressing part may be a discoidal end of a screw having a handling head, the screw being housed in an internallv threaded neck. Alternatively, the part may be flexible and the pressing part a deflection. Embodiments of the invention will now be described, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawing, in which Fig. 1 is a plan of a clasp earring Fig. 2 is a side view of the same Fig. 3 shows it applied to the ear lobe Fig. 4 is a cross section view of what is shown in Fig. 3 and Figs. 5 to 8 are equivalent to Figs. 1 to 4 respectively, of a modified clasp earring, Fig. 8 being a cross section on the line VIII VIII of Fig. 7. In Figs. 1 to 4 a rod, wire, or filament of any appropriate material, for instance metal, is bent to form a U shaped part 1 of reduced height, which is provided in its central portion with a neck 2, int 4nally threaded to house a screw 3 having a handling head 4 and a convex discoidal end 5 aimed to be applied under pressure against the ear lobe 6 on its internal or back side Fig. 4 . The single filament, U shaped part is fixed by its ends to decorative trimming, which forms the earring visible side. This ornamental trimming may have any form, normally that of a perforating instrument such as an arrow, a lance, a sword, or anything analogous, being always made up by two aligned halves 7, which are separated by a central open space 8. In Figs. 1 to 4, the aforementioned ornamental part is defined by a cut arrow, but it could be determined by any other element such as the symbolic representation of a thunderbolt as in Figs. 5 to 8.In all cases, the impression sought is that of a perforation due to a sharp object that pierces the ear lobe 6 which is placed between that part 1 and the trimming 7. In Fig. 4 it can be seen the ear lobe deforms under the action of the rear screw 3 which, when it is turned tight, forces the fore side of the ear lobe to protrude through the opening 8. The ear skin is not damaged since the opposite edges of those halves 7 are made blunt at 9. In Figs. 5 to 8 the clasp earring consists of one part only made of a flexible plastic material and its single filament U shaped portion 1 has, in its centre, an obtuse angle deflection 10 instead of the screw 3 of the former embodiment, but having the same function as the latter. As can be seen in Fig. 5, the trimming halves 7 can be bent or opened, due to material flexibility, at the moment of putting the earring on, after which the closing occurs automatically and the pressure exerted by the deflection 10 gives place to ear lobe 6 advance and the protrusion of a part of it through the opening 8, all in the same way as in the preceding embodiment. The earring, when it is made of a rigid material Figs. 1 to 4 , requires the operation of its screw 3 to put it on and to take it out, while with the flexible plastic material simplified embodiment Figs. 5 to 8 , it is sufficient slightly to deform the ornamental ends 7 Fig. 5 to allow the introduction and the extraction from the ear lobe 6.