# METHOD OF MANUFACTURING A COLOR MATRIX TYPE LIQUID CRYSTAL DISPLAY DEVICE

## Claims
Verfahren zum Herstellen einer Farbflüssigkristallanzeige mit einer Anzahl von Bildelementeinheiten, von denen jedes eine Anzeigeelektrode 3, 4, 5, 19, 20, 22 aufweist, durch Eintauchen der Einrichtung mit den Anzeigeelektroden, die gefärbt werden sollen, in einen Flüssigkeit enthaltenden Farbstoff und Anlegen einer hinreichend großen Spannung über eine hinreichend lange Zeit an jede der Anzeigeelektroden, um eine Filterschicht auf der Anzeigeelektrode durch Galvanisierung zu bilden,

## Description
This invention relates to a method of manufacturing liquid crystal display devices and in particular to a method of manufacturing a color matrix type liquid crystal display device having self aligned color filters formed on an active matrix substrate. The commonly known technique for coloring a matrix liquid crystal display device is to use color filters. This may be done, for example, by arranging color filters with coloring regions in the form of a regularly repeating sequence of stripes or dots that are separately applied and are of the three additive primary colors red, green and blue . Generally, a matrix type liquid crystal display LCD device comprises a matrix substrate having a plurality of display electrodes, a counter substrate spaced from the matrix substrate, and liquid crystal filling the space between the two substrates. Color filters, in a conventional matrix type LCD, are arranged in the counter substrate, i.e., they are manufactured independently from the matrix substrate before assembly of the display device. An electrodeposition method for manufacturing strip type color filters is described in M. Suginoya et al. Multicolor Graphic LCD with Tri Colored Layers Formed by Electrodeposition, In order to overcome these drawbacks, it has been proposed to form dot type colour filters directly on each display electrode on the matrix substrate, using a printing technique see, for example, Japanese Patent Application No. 56 140324 Kokai . However, printing technique involving sublimation transfer by heating or evaporation causes colour misalignment or undesirably mixed colours, especially when it is used for production of LCD s having a large area or a large number of tiny picture elements. European specification no. 0096856 discloses a process whereby pigment is deposited on aluminium picture elements by anodising, i.e. by applying a voltage to the respective picture elements so that they act as electrodes in an electrodeposition process. In addition European specifications nos. 0113237 and 0132357, published on 11th July 1984 and 30th January 1985 respectively, disclose the manufacture of multicolour matrix display devices by electrodeposition of polymers and dyes. According to the present invention, there is provided a method of manufacturing a colour liquid crystal display device having a plurality of picture element units each including a display electrode, the method comprising immersing the device in a dye containing liquid, and applying to each of the display electrodes a voltage of sufficient value and for sufficient time to form an electrodeposited filter layer on the display electrode characterised in that at least two different voltages are applied to respective electrodes, whereby filter layers of different thicknesses are deposited in accordance with the values of said voltages. A preferred form of the invention provides a method of manufacturing a colour matrix type liquid crystal display device having an active matrix substrate formed with a plurality of picture element units arranged in a matrix of rows and columns, each picture element unit including a transparent display electrode and a corresponding switching element, said method comprising the steps of storing voltage data corresponding to a plurality of the display electrodes immersing the active matrix substrate into an emulsion containing colouring matter applying to selected ones of the plurality of display electrodes the voltages represented by the stored voltage data by selectively controlling the corresponding switching elements, the voltages being applied for a predetermined period sufficient to form on the selected display electrodes an electrodeposited filter layer whose thickness is directly related to the value of the applied voltage removing the active matrix substrate from the emulsion and curing the electrodeposited filter layer. A colour matrix type LCD is manufactured having an active matrix substrate, that is, a substrate in which it is possible individually to switch each coloured dot of the dot matrix. In an active matrix substrate, each picture element unit includes a switching element and a display electrode. Formerly, the switching element were activated only during a displaying operation. The invention, however, utilises them also during the manufacturing processs. The active matrix substrate is immersed, as one electrode into an emulsion containing colouring matter for electrodeposition. Then voltages are supplied to selected display electrodes by controlling the corresponding switching elements so as to form electrodeposited filter layers Thus, self aligned colour filters can be obtained, without colour misalignment, and irrespective of the size of the matrix or the size of each individual display electrode. Furthermore, the density thickness of the colour filters may be controlled simply by controlling the voltages being supplied to the display electrodes. This makes it possible to vary the densities of colour filters within a single LCD to compensate for differences in the amount of light passing through different display electrodes. Also, dot matrix colour filters can be easily manufactured by this electrodeposition process regardless of the colours. Preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described, with reference to the accompanying drawings wherein. Figure 1 shows an equivalent circuit diagram of an active matrix substrate used in a preferred embodiment according to this invention. The active matrix substrate includes a plurality of unit display pixels arranged in an n x m matrix. Each unit display pixel consists of three contiguous picture element units in a single row of the matrix. Each picture element unit includes a switching element of, for example, an N channel enhancement MOSFET, a capacitor for storing a display drive voltage, and a transparent display electrode made, for example, of ITO Indium Tin Oxide . The picture element unit in the upper left corner in Figure 1, for example, has a transistor 1, capacitor 2 and display electrode 3. Thus, successive electrodes 3, 4, 5 form one unit display pixel. However, a unit display pixel may be formed, for example, by electrodes 3, 4 and 20. In any event, at least one display electrode of each unit display pixel must be colored in one of the selected colors red, blue and green by the method described below. Each picture element unit in a row of the matrix is connected to a common address line. Each picture element unit in a column of the matrix is connected to a common data line. For example, the gates of all transistors in the first row of the matrix are connected to address line 9, and the gates of all transistors in the second row are connected to address line 10. The drains of all transistors in the first and second columns of the matrix are connected, respectively, to data lines 13 and 14. If each display electrode of the active matrix substrate described above has been colored by the method described below, a color image will be displayed as follows. An address drive circuit 8 supplies a high level voltage successively to each address line 9, 10, . . . 11. Simultaneously, a data drive circuit 12 supplies an entire row of data, of the color image being displayed, to data lines 13, 14, 15, 16 . . ., in response to the selection of address lines by address drive circuit 8. For example, when the first address line 9 is driven high, the first row data of the color image is supplied to all data lines. The high level voltage on address line 9 causes each transistor in the first row in the matrix to conduct, so that the first row data is stored in the capacitors of the first row of the matrix. The voltage of each capacitor will be used for controlling the amount of red, blue and green light passing through the liquid crystal so as to display a coloured dot image. Figure 2 shows a vertical sectional view of the active matrix substrate indicating a unit display pixel located in the i th row and j th column of the matrix. Each picture element unit has the same configuration formed on a transparent glass substrate 30. At first, a gate electrode 31 constituting the gate of the transistor and an ITO electrode 32 constituting one plate of the capacitor are formed on the glass substrate 30. An SiO₂ film 33 is formed by chemical vapor deposition CVD on gate electrode 31 and ITO electrode 32, serving as both the gate insulator and the capacitor dielectric. Display electrode 34, also made of transparent ITO, is formed on film 33 directly over ITO electrode 32 so as to serve as the other plate of the capacitor. Amorphous silicon layer 35, forming the channel, is also deposited on film 33, directly over gate electrode 31. Drain electrode 36 and source electrode 37 are formed on amorphous silicon layer 35 to complete the switching transistor. Part of source electrode 37 is formed on display electrode 34 in order to connect the two electrically. Finally, a passivation film 38 which insulates various electrodes is provided over the entire surface Figure 3 shows an electrodeposition apparatus which may be used to form color filters on the display electrodes of the above active matrix substrate. An electrodeposition tub 40 is filled with electrodeposition emulsion 41 which is a mixed emulsion containing a solution of polyester melamine resin and a non water soluble dye dispersed in water. The above active matrix substrate, as one electrode 43, is immersed in the emulsion 41. Electrode 43 is the one which is to be subjected to electrodeposition. Also, a counter electrode 42, consisting of stainless steel, is Immersed so as to face the display electrodes of the active matrix substrate. Both electrodes 42 and 43 are coupled to a DC voltage source of, for example, 15 V through a switching circuit 44. Switching circuit 44, which functions as both address drive circuit 8 and data drive circuit 12, selects address lines and data lines of the active matrix substrate to designate display electrodes on which color filters or electrodeposited layers should be formed. It is preferable for electrode 43 to have a higher potential relative to counter electrode 42 when using an anionic dye as a coloring matter. Examples of suitable dyes are Perylene trade name for red and Cu Phthalocyanimes trade name for green and blue manufactured by Sumitomo Kagaku Co. . In order to clarify the selection of display electodes by switching circuit 4, the following notations are used hereafter. First, red filter layers are electrodeposited on display electrodes R That is, supplying 15 V to all the address lines, switching circuit 44 supplies 15 V selectively to data lines D After the above electrodeposition, the active matrix substrate is removed from the tub and cured at a temperature of about 453 K for 30 minutes so as to affix the red coloring matter to the selected display electrodes. Next, green filter layers are electrodeposited on display electrodes G Thus, red electrodeposited layer 50, green electrodeposited layer 51 and blue electrodeposited layer 52 are formed on the active matrix substrate, on selected display electrodes 34. Then, an orientating layer 54 is formed over layers 50, 51 and 52 and the passivation film. Also, an orientating electrode 55 and another orientating layer 56 are provided on a glass substrate 53 spaced from and facing the active matrix substrate. The intervening space is filled with liquid crystal 57 as a display medium. Since the resulting LCD is of the transparent type, it is illuminated from the back of the active matrix substrate with white backlight 58 including red, green and blue light components. The hue and brightness of transmitted light are controlled by the transmissivity of liquid crystal 57, which is determined by the voltage applied to the display electrodes 34. Thus a color active matrix liquid crystal display device can be manufactured, irrespective of the size of the screen, or the size of the display electrodes, by producing the color by a method in which only those display electrodes which are to be colored are selected using the matrix drive and then the coloring matter is electrodeposited onto these display electrodes. This enables a self aligned color filter to be produced without risk of color misalignment, since the display electrodes themselves provide the colored surface. Thus a color liquid crystal display device of high recognizability or visual quality can be manufactured. It should be noted that the same effect can be obtained even using non linear devices as the switching elements, and the technique can also be applied to active matrix substrates using metal for the display electrodes in the absence of capacitors. In the above embodiment, each electrodeposited filter has substantially the same thickness. In that case, it was assumed that the amount of light passing through all filters is the same. This assumption is, however, not always justified, for example, such as when a long, narrow fluorescent lamp is used as a backlight source. The light distribution from the fluorescent lamp usually diminishes toward the edge of the array. Thus when such a backlight source is used, some display electrodes which are located near the edges of the active matrix substrate receive less light than those which are located near the center portion of the active matrix substrate. Such a problem can be solved by providing filters of different thicknesses, according to the embodiment of this invention. Figure 5 is a flowchart showing a process for forming electrodeposited filters on an active matrix substrate, similar to the previous embodiment of this invention. First, the light distribution from the backlight which will be used for illuminating the color LCD is measured step S1 . Then, the appropriate thickness for each filter is determined in step S2, so as to compensate for variations in the amount of light. Practically, the calculation results in a value for the applied voltage for each display electrode, since the applied voltage mainly defines the thickness of the filter layer to be formed by electrodeposition. For example, when 10 V is applied to the display electrode, the thickness of the filter layer is about 0.8 µm, while it is about 2.3 um with an applied voltage of 30 V. Generally, the calculated voltage for peripheral display electrodes will be lower than the voltage for centrally located display electrodes, in order to get substantially the same illumination through each. Following steps S3 through S8 are basically similar to the first embodiment. In step S3, red filter layers are formed by electrodeposition, and then the active matrix is cured in step S4. Next, green filter layers are formed by electrodeposition in step S5 followed by curing in step S6. Finally, blue filter layers are formed by electrodeposition in step S7 and cured in step S8. However, steps S3, S5 and S7 are slightly different from the first embodiment in order to form filter layers having different thicknesses. As in the first embodiment, however, each color of filter is electrodeposited in all applicable rows of the matrix before the next color is deposited. Figure 6 is a block diagram showing a circuit which supplies necessary voltages to address lines and data lines of the active matrix substrate in step S3 of Figure 5. The circuit includes CPU 60 for controlling the entire circuit, memory 61 for storing control programs by which CPU 60 is operated and also voltage data calculated for step S3 of Figure 5, digital to analog converter 62, data line selector 63 and address line selector 64. Figure 7 is a flowchart indicating the operation of CPU 60 in Figure 6 for forming red filter layers. After active matrix substrate 43 is immersed in the electrodeposition tub, CPU 60 outputs to data line selector 63 a signal for selecting data lines D After initialization, CPU 60 supplies the content of the inner counter to address line selector 64. Address line selector 64 supplies predetermined voltage 15 V provided from terminal 65 to one of address lines Gj which is designated by the inner counter in step S12. At this stage, CPU 60 reads a set of voltage data V Steps S5 through S7 of Figure 5 are similarly executed except that data line selector 63 selects data lines D Although illustrative embodiments of the present invention have been described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings, it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to those precise embodiments, and that various changes and modifications may be effected therein by one skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the invention as claimed.