# METHOD OF CULTIVATING, IN MILK, ORGANISMS HAVING A SLOW GROWTH CAPACITY, AND ORGANISMS PRODUCED BY THE METHOD, AND MILK PRODUCTS CONTAINING SUCH ORGANISMS

## Claims
Verfahren zur Züchtung von Organismen mit einer geringen Wachstumskapazität Lactobacillus acidophilus, bestimmte Arten von Bifidobakterien, Streptococcus faecium in Milch,

## Description
The present invention generally relates to a method of cultivating, in milk, organisms or bacterial cultures having a slow growth capacity Lactobacillus acidophilus, certain types of Bifidobacteria, Streptococcus faecium , and the invention is concerned with production at industrial scale of such organisms or cultures and of edible products containing such organisms or bacterial cultures. The invention has been developed especially in connection to manufacture of acidified edible milk products containing bacterial cultures of the strain Lactobacillus acidophilus or Bifido bacterial species, like adolescentis, breve, longum etc., but the invention is not restricted to this specific area but is useful för cultivation, in milk, of slow growing organisms for any other purposes. For the sake of clearness the invention is, however, to be described in the following, mainly in connection to manufacture of the said acidified, edible milk products. An edible milk product containing bacterial cultures of the type Lactobacillus acidophilus or certain types of human Bifido bacterial species like adolescentis, breve, longum and certain streptococcus etc., have a beneficial effect on the human body. This is also true for Lactobacillus acidophilus and the said Bifidobacterial species which are a part of the living bacterial flora of the intestinal tract of the human body. A milk product containing a substantial amount of such living bacteria may restore a disordered bacterial flora and also in other cases may have a beneficial effect on the digestion and on the body function. The said types of bacteria are not adapted to milk, have a poor growth capacity in milk and this has caused some problems in the manufacture of milk products containing such bacteria. The strain type Lactobacillus acidophilus is characterized, amoung other things, in that it has a slow growth capacity, especially when cultivating the bacteria in milk, and in that it is susceptible to infections and contamination with other microorganisms. Products containing such organisms have to be prepared to maintain a high amount of living bacteria even after having been stored for some time and they have to be prepared and treated with utmost care for avoiding that the product is infected or contaminated by other products or that the bacterial culture is killed. Milk products solely containing L. acidophilus bacteria have previously been prepared in that a slight amount of a bacterial culture, preferably a mother culture, of L. acidophilus has been added to the milk product in the very package in which the product is finally to be marketed. Since the bacterial culture has a slow growth speed in milk and generally a rather little amount of mother culture is added, it takes a long time for cultivating the bacterial culture to the intended amount of bacteria. Depending of said long cultivation time, there is a risk that the product is infected, and the milk product can not be manufactured in an industrial scale. Also there is a lot of work involved, in handling of the individual units and controlling that each unit is free from infectants. For practical and economical reasons it has not been considered possible to add any larger amount of mother culture to the process milk batch. Before the mother culture is added to the process milk batch directly into the final container, the process milk must pass an autoclaving process. Autoclaving of milk products, however, gives problems which are hard to overcome, for instance burned desposits of milk on the equipment, some troublesome changes in taste and structure of the milk and the change of the colour of the milk to a brownish colour. Further autoclaving is time consuming and is an expensive process. Autoclaving of the actual product therefore has been considered to give a non acceptable product. It is also known to add a cultivated, concentrated L. acidophilus to the pasteurized milk, without having the culture to grow in the milk. In that case the milk only acts as a carrier and not as a cultivation substrate. For economical reasons, the amount of L. acidophilus generally does not exceed some tenth millions per ml. The object of the invention therefore is to solve the problem of providing a method of peparing, in an industrial scale, a milk product containing a high amount of living bacteria, especially bacteria of the type having a slow growth capacity in milk, for instance bacteria of the strain L. acidophilus or some type of Bifidobacteria like breve, longum etc. According to the invention a bulk stater culture is prepared in that milk is heat treated according to an UHT Ultra High Temperature process to a temperature of about 140 Before the bulk starter is prepared a suitable tank for this purpose is prepared, which tank is sterilized by means of high pressure steam having a temperature of about 120 150 Preferably suitable growth stimulants for the actual bacterial culture has been added to the bulk starter milk, for instance yeast extract, proteins like skimmilk protein, whey protein, skimmilk powder etc. The temperature of the bulk starter milk should be the best growth temperature for the bacterial culture, which for instance for L. acidofilus is 35 44 Parallelly to the preparation of the bulk starter a process milk batch is prepared. The milk may be buttermilk, skimmilk or milk having different fat content. First the milk is homogenized and heat treated in a conventional way, among other things, for denaturating the whey proteins, for instance for a period of 5 minutes at 95 The homogenized and heat treated process milk is transferred to a tank which has been carefully washed and disinfected. At this stage, it is not necessary to use special high pressure tanks as sterile tanks, since the raw material has already been UHT treated and since a large amount of active culture has been inoculated in the milk. Therefore it is possible to utilize the equipment which is normally available in the dairy industries. The disinfection may for instance be made by means of steam having a temperature of about 100 105 Thereafter a heavy dose of bulk starter is inoculated in the process milk batch, for instance in an amount of between 2,5 and 25 , preferably between 5 20 . The amount of inoculated culture is preferably calculated so that the growth period is 14 24 hours. This is made by considering the amount of protein or yeast extract added. By protein is meant a milk protein like skim milk protein, whey protein, butter milk protein, casein or mixtures thereof in powder form or in liquid form. Normally the protein 3 36 g kg milk is added so that the process milk batch gets a 50 increase of the protein content, whereby the process milk will have a protein content of about 3,4 5,0 . The yeast extract of the process milk batch is admixed in an amount of 0,1 2 g yeast extract per litre milk. The ready product will have a bacteria count higher than 2 10⁸ per ml, and after having been stored for 10 days and nights at 8 It has been shown that it is of great importance to buffer the product with protein, not only considering the final total amount of bacteria, but also considering the survival of the bacteria. Tests have proved that the bacterial content of a non buffered product decreases to a substantially higher extent than for a protein buffered product. In comparative tests the process milk batch has been inoculated with the same amount of bulk starter, but in one case A the process milk had not received any addition of protein, and in the second case B the process milk had been given 50 increase of the protein content. The following was found The survival of the bacterial culture in a protein buffered product at 8 The growth of the bacterial culture in the process milk is made at the optimum temperature for the culture, which may be about 37 It has also been shown that the dry matter content is of importance for the method according to the invention, and as will be evident from the following examples, the total amount of not fat dry matter preferably should not exceed 18 180 g kg milk . The protein content of the admixed protein preparation should be at least 15 of the dry matter content. As previously mentioned the process can to the greatest extent be performed in conventional dairy industry equipment, and the process is cheap and relatively quick. The only cost to be added, as compared with conventional manufacture of cultured milk products, is the costs for UHT treatment of the milk and for providing a small sterile tank for preparing the bulk starter. It should be noted that the disinfecting of the process tank also can be made by cold disinfecting, for instance in that the tank is carefully cleaned and disinfected by means of a solution of peracetic acid and hydrogene peroxide. There is no need to carefully rinse the tank after the disinfection, but immediately before the milk is supplied, the tank is rinsed with water having less than 1 bacteria per ml. Now the invention is to be described more closely in connection to several examples. It is, however, to be understood that said examples are only of explanating character and that the invention is restricted only by the appended claims. The above mentioned method may be said to include three independent process stages, viz. preparing of an intermediate culture from a mother culture I , preparing of a bulk starter culture from the intermediate culture II and preparing a process milk batch from the bulk starter culture III . The preparation of the intermediate culture is made according to any known process and does not include any special process steps for the invention. For the sake of completeness the preparation of the intermediate culture, however, is to be examplified very shortly in the following An intermediate culture was prepared in that 10 l skimmilk containing 1 g l yeast extract and having been heat treated according to the so called UHT method at a temperature of 140 An intermediate culture was prepared in that 5 l milk having a fat content of 3 and containing 2 g l yeast extract, 2 g l hydrolyzed casein and 1 g l 1 cystein and having been heat treated at 115 An intermediate culture was prepared in that 5 l milk having a fat content of 0.5 and having the same additives as the intermediate culture 2, was UHT treated at 140 An intermediate culture was prepared in that 5 l milk having a fat content of 1 and having the same additives as intermediate culture 2 was UHT treated at 140 An intermediate culture was prepared in that 10 l skimmed milk, having an additive of 1 g l yeast extract and having been UHT treated at 140 A bulk starter culture suited for preparing a milk product as intended with the invention is prepared by culturing according to the invention an intermediate culture of the type described above or any commercialy available intermediate culture. There are industrially manufactured intermediate cultures in the market, which are suitable for preparing the intended type of milk product. Some of said commercially available cultures are relatively quick growing and when using such cultures the substantial advantages, as when using slow growing micro oganisms for which the invention has been made, are not obtained. In the following are described the preparation according to the invention of four different bulk starter cultures of Lactobacillus acidophilus the neotype strain intermediate culture 1 , two different types of bulk starter culture of B. adolescentis intermediate culture II , a bulk starter culture of B. breve intermedate culture 3 , a bulk starter culture of B. longum intermediate culture 4 and a bulk starter culture of S. faecium intermediate culture 5 . For preparing a bulk starter culture of Lactobacillus acidophilus, 990 l skimmilk was prepared, which milk had a fat content of 0.06 and a protein additive of skimmilk protein powder, which gave the milk a protein content of 4 g 100 g, and which further contained a growth simulant in form of 0.4 g l of a yeast extract. The milk was heat treated according to the UHT method by direct injection of steam of 140 In this case a sterile culture was grown in a sterilized substrate in a sterile tank, whereby an infection free bulk starter culture having a high content of the bacteria L. acidophilus was obtained. A bulk starter culture was prepared similarly, in that 990 l milk having a fat content of 0.5 and having an addition of a growth medium of 4 g l yeast extract was inoculated with 1 intermediate culture 1 of L. acidophilus. The total protein content of the prepared milk was 3.4 g 100 g. The bulk starter culture tank was sterilized like above, and the prepared milk was UHT treated at 130 In this case the substrate was sterilized by indirect UHT treatment in a special heat exchanger for some seconds. Depending on the relatively high amount of yeast extract, this can be supplied to the processed milk via the bulk starter culture. The culture was allowed to grow under sterile conditions and resulted in an infection free bulk starter culture having a relatively high amount of L. acidophilus. A bulk starter culture was prepared from milk having a fat content of 0.5 and having an addition of skimmilk powder giving the milk a protein content of 3.8 g 100 g. A starter culture tank was prepared by being normally cleaned and disinfected by steam injection. The milk was UHT treated like in the above examplified bulk starter culture 1 and was inoculated with 1 intermediate culture 1 , L acidophilus., whereupon the culture was allowed to grow at 37 Also in this case the substrate was sterilized by UHT treatment and the culture was grown under sterile conditions. In this case the bulk culture tank was of conventional dairy tank type, and the tank was cleaned and disinfected as conventional and it was steam treated at 105 A bulk starter culture was prepared like the above culture 3 but from milk having a fat content of 1 . The bulk starter culture tank was sterilized by means of high pressure steam of 135 The bulk starter culture tank had been sterilized, like for bulk starter culture 1 and 2, but A bulk starter culture was prepared in that 290 l milk having a fat content of 1 , received an addition of skimmilk powder giving a protein content of 3.8 g 100 g and an addition of 5 g l of a yeast extract. A bulk culture tank was sterilized with high pressure steam of 135 The culture was grown sterile in UHT treated milk in a sterile tank and gave an infection free bulk starter culture obtaining a high bacterial content after a reasonable growth time. A bulk starter culture was prepared substantially as described in connection to bulk starter culture 5 from 190 l milk having a fat content of 1 and an addition of 10 g yeast extract per liter. The protein content was 3.7 g 100 g. The bulk starter culture tank was sterilized with high pressure steam of 135 The culture was grown in a sterile tank but in tyndallized, non sterile milk. The result was a strongly infected bulk starter culture containing more than one million contaminating bacteria per milliliter having a non typical bitter taste. Obviously tyndallization of the milk is not sufficient for effectively killing such contaminating bacteria which in this case gave the non wanted effect. A bulk starter culture was prepared by 190 l milk having 3 fat content and an addition of whey proteins giving a milk protein content of 4.0 g 100 g, and 5 g l yeast extract was added to the milk. A bulk starter culture tank was prepared by being sterilized at 135 The culture was grown sterile in a sterile tank and gave an infection free culture having high bacteria content in relatively short time. A bulk starter culture was prepared by 190 l milk having a fat content of 0.5 and an addition of 2 g l yeast extract. The protein content of the milk was 3.4 g l. The culture tank was sterilized, also in this case by means of high pressure steam at 135 The culture was grown sterile in a sterile tank and was free from infections. A bulk starter culture was prepared by 290 l milk having a fat content of 3 and a protein content of 3.4 g 100 g milk. The culture tank was sterilized by high pressure steam of 120 The culture was grown sterile in a sterile tank and gave in a short time an infection free bulk starter culture having a high content of the intended bacteria. In the following a number of examples are given of how to prepare the intended process milk batch, using the above described bulk starter cultures. From 0.2 l motherculture of the strain Lactobacillus acidophilus, National Collection of Dairy Organisms, Reading, GB, No. 1748, an intermediate culture was prepared, as described in connection to bulk starter culture 1 above, by cultivation in skimmilk, having a pH value of 6.6 and an addition of 1 g yeast extract per liter. Prior to inoculation, the milk was subjected to an UHT treatment at a temperature of 140 From the intermediate culture, a bulk starter culture was prepared in larger scale according to any of the examples of bulk starter culture 1 4 by cultivation in milk having a fat content of 0,5 and a protein content of 3,4 and containing 4g l yeast extract as a growth medium for the bacteria culture. The milk mixture was heat treated according to the UHT process by injection of steam at 140 A tank was prepared for manufacture of the ready product by being carefully cleaned and disinfected, and subsequently the tank was steamed for 30 minutes under normal pressure. The tank, which had a volyme of 10,000 liter, was filled with 9,700 l milk having a fat content of 0,5 and a protein content of 3,4 , which for buffering purpose was increased to 5,0 by adding skim milk protein powder having 65 protein as calculated on the dry matter content. The process milk was homogenized and was heated to 95 The ready product had a strongly sour taste of L. acidophilus, a consistency eqivalent to fermented milk products prepared from milk having 3 fat content and a clearly white colour. The amount of contaminating bacteria was less than 1,000 per ml and the number of bacillus cereus like the content of coliforms was less than 10 per ml. After storing for 10 days the bacterial culture proved to have a comparatively good survival, and the amount living bacteria decreased only slightly during the storing period. A process milk batch was prepared from milk having 0.5 fat content and a protein content of 3.4 g l and having an addition of 0.3 g l of a yeast extract. A culture tank was prepared like in example 1, and 8,800 l of the milk was tapped into the tank and was UHT treated like in example 1 and was inoculated with 1,200 l bulk starter culture No. 1 L. acidophilus, corresponding to 12 inoculation amount. After a growth time of 16 hours at 37 The manufacture was made substantially like in example 1, but the amount of inoculated bacteria was substantially higher and the protein content was less. Therefore a lower bacterial content was obtained at a shorter growth period. Like in example 1, the product was free from infections and had a very little content of contaminating bacteria. A process milk batch was prepared from milk having 0.5 fat content and which was protein fortified by an addition of ultrafiltered skimmilk having 22 dry matter content and 40 protein of the dry matter content which gave the milk a protein content of 5.0 g 100 g milk. A processed tank was prepared like in example 1 and 7,800 liter of the milk was UHT treated like in example 1 and was inoculated with 2,200 litre bulk starter culture No. 1, L. acidophilus, corresponding to 22 inoculation amount. The culture was grown at 40 The milk had a higher protein content than in example 2 and a higher inoculation amount than in examples 1 and 2, and an infection free product was obtained which had a high bacterial content and a satisfactory taste, appearance and consistency obtained at relatively short period of time. A process milk batch was prepared substantially like in example 1 by milk which had a fat content of 1 and was protein fortified to a protein content of 4,0g 100 g milk by an addition of ultrafiltered whey having 20 dry matter content and 50 protein as calculated on the dry matter content. A process tank was prepared like in example 1 and 9,900 litre of the milk was UHT treated like in example 1 and was inoculated with 100 liter bulk starter culture No. 1, L. acidophilus, corresponding to an inoculation amount of 1 . The culture was grown at 42 In this example there were the same growth conditions like in example 1, but the inoculation amount was only 1 . This gave a growth time of 28 hours to reach pH 4,7, and the content of L. acidophilus became relatively low. The amount of Bacillus cereus was more than 100 000 per ml, since spores of this bacteria survive the actual disinfection of the process tank and since the growth time was fairly long depending on the low inoculation amount. According to actual Swedish stipulations amounts of B. cereus exceeding 10 000 per ml means that the product is unsuitable as human food. According to the invention there is obviously a need of a higher inoculated amount of bulk starter culture. A process milk batch was pepared like in example 4 but for the difference that the milk was inoculted with 35 bulk starter culture No. 1 of L. acidophilus and that the protein content was increased to 5.0 g 100 g milk. The culture was grown at 40 In this example a very heavy inoculation amount was used, and therefore the growth time was very short. Depending on the quick growth, there was no need for having the culture grow in specially treated milk, but the cultivation advantageously could be made in the conventional way. The product was free from infection, but had a quite unacceptable consistency, depending on the fact that the protein was flaky when the process milk and the inoculation culture were mixed, since the pH value of the mixture did not exceed 5.7. A further disadvantage of such heavy inoculation amount is, that the amount of product does not increase equivalently to the increased amount of inoculation culture, and therefore the method is expensive. A process milk batch was prepared like in example 5 from milk which had 3 fat content and which had a fortified protein content of 5.0 g 100 g milk, and the milk was inoculated with 10 bulk starter culture No. 1 L acidophilus. There were the same growth conditions like in example 1, but with the difference that the substrate had not been UHT treated but heat treated as conventional within this technical field at 95 A process milk batch was prepared substantially as in example 6 from milk which had 3 fat content and a fortified protein content of 5 g 100 g milk and an addition of 0.4 g l of a yeast extract. In this case the process tank was carefully cleand and disinfected in the usual way, but it was not subjected to any special disinfection procedure. The milk was UHT heat treated by direct injection of high pressure steam of 135 A process milk batch was prepared substantially as in example 7 from milk having a fat content of 3 and a protein content of 3,4 g 100 g milk. The process tank was disinfected with high pressure steam like in example 1, and the milk was UHT treated by an indirect method at 140 There were the same growth conditions like in example 1, except that the incubation took place at a higher temperature. In spite of 29 hours growth time, the bacterial content was substantially less than in example 1, and the pH value did not reach the intended low value of 4.7, at which the product, according to experience, has acceptable taste and consistency. The amount of contaminating bacteria was 0.1 x 10⁹, and the taste was unacceptable. An important part of the contaminating bacteria were Clostrides causing a gas formation in the tank. The reason for the unacceptable result is probably that the high growth temperature favours the growth of contaminating bacteria, surviving the disinfection of the product tank and having a quicker growth rate than the slow growing L. acidophilus bacteria, and that said L. acidophilus bacteria hence was inhibited by the high temperature. A process milk batch was prepared like in example 7, from skimmilk having 0.06 fat content and a fortified protein content of 5 g 100 g milk and containing 0.4 g l of a yeast extract. The process tank was disinfected and the milk was UHT treated like in example 7 and was also in this case inoculated with 14 bulk starter culture No. 1, L. acidophilus. The culture was grown at 29 In this case, the culture was grown at substantially less temperature than in example 7. In spite of the very long growth time the pH value decreased only to 5.2 and the milk did not coagulate. The content of Bacillus cereus exceeded 100,000 per ml and the product was unsuitable as human food. The reason that the result was unacceptable is, that the growth time was too long. A process milk batch was prepared like in example 9, from milk having 1 fat content and a strongly fortified protein content of 10 g 100 g milk and containing 0.4 g l of a yeast extract. The process tank was sterilized and the milk was UHT treated like in example 9, and the milk was inoculated with 10 bulk starter culture No. 1, L. acidophilus. The culture was grown at 38 In this example, the milk had a very high protein content and the total dry matter content was 20 g 100 g milk. In spite that the culture was grown for 36 hours, the pH value did not become lower than 5.4 and the bacterial content was remarkably low. The amount of contaminating bacteria like the taste and consistency was unacceptable. The reason therefore is, that the protein content obviously was too high, so that the bacteria L. acidophilus was not capable of lowering the pH value sufficiently, since the protein gives a heavy buffer effect and that the growth of L. Racidophilus was inhibited depending on the high dry matter content of minerals, lactose and protein. A process milk batch was prepared like in example 1 from skimmilk, which had a fat content of 0.06 and which was protein fortified to a protein content of 7 g 100 g milk by addition of skimmilk powder having 35 protein content of the dry matter. The total dry matter content thereby was 21 g 100 g, 10 g of which was lactose. The milk obtained an addition of a growth stimulant in the form of 0.4 g l of a yeast extract. The proccess tank was sterilized like in example 1 and the milk was UHT treated by an indirect method at 140 The substrate was grown a 37 In spite of such long growth time as 34 hours, the pH value did not decrease to more than 5.3 and the bacterial content was remarkably low. The reason is, that the high protein content of the substrate combined with the low water activity, mainly caused by lactose and minerals, which obviously inhibit the growth of the L. acidophilus bacteria. The product was unacceptable. A process milk batch was prepared like in example 1, from skimmilk having 0.06 fat content and a fortified protein content of 7 g protein 100 g milk, obtained by an addition of skimmilk protein powder in which 50 of the dry matter was protein. This gave a total dry matter content of 15 g 100 g milk. The milk was given an addition of 0.4 g l of a yeast extract. The process tank was sterilized like in example 11 and the milk was inoculated with 17 bulk starter culture No. 1, L. acidophilus, and was grown like in example 11. After 22 hours at 37 In this example the total dry matter content was less and the culture grew quicker than in example 11. The content of bacillus was 10,000 per ml, 120 per ml of which was B. cereus. The product had a satisfactory taste and a thick, smooth consistency, and as a whole the product was acceptable. A process milk batch was prepared like in example 1, from milk having 3 fat content, which was protein fortified by an addition of a mixture of a skim milk protein powder and whey protein powder giving a protein content of 4.5 g per 100 g milk. In this case the milk did not get any addition of yeast extract. The process tank was sterilized and the culture substrate was UHT treated like in examples 11 and 12, and the milk was inoculated with 25 bulk starter culture No. 1, L. acidophilus, and was grown at 37 In the above examples 1 13 the product has been grown with bulk starter culture No. 1, L. acidohpilus. The following examples disclose the use of the bulk starter culture 2, 3 and 4 which likewise are of the specie L. acidophilus but which have been prepared in slightly different ways. A process milk batch was prepared substantially as in example 1, from skimmilk having 0.06 fat content and being protein fortified to a protein content of 3.8 g 100 g milk, by an addition of whey powder having 20 protein as calculated on the dry matter content. There was no addition of yeast extract to the skimmilk, but by the inoculated culture 0.7 g l yeast extract was supplied. The process tank was sterilized like in examples 11 13 and the growth substrate was UHT treated, likewise as in examples 11 13, and the milk was inoculated with 17 bulk starter culture No. 2, Lactobacillus acidophilus, neo type strain. The culture was grown at 37 Since the bulk starter culture had been grown with high content of yeast extract the process substrate obtained a correspondingly high content. Thereby the handling is simplyfied. The product was free from infection and had a satisfactory taste, consistency and content of the intended bacterial type. A process milk batch was prepared from skimmilk which had 0.06 fat content and which was protein fortified like in example 1, to a protein content of 5.0 g 100 g milk. Further, the milk contained 0.4 g l of a yeast extract. The process tank was sterilized and the milk was UHT treated like in examples 11 14. In this example the milk was inoculated with 17 bulk starter culture No. 3, Lactobacillus acidophilus, neo type strain, and the culture was grown a 36 The bulk starter culture No. 3 contained about 100 bacillus per ml, which by the inoculation was transferred to the milk. Depending on the high growth speed, they dominated the growth process, so that pH had dropped to less than 4.4 already after 12 hours and the content of bacillus was higher than 100 millions. The product had a strongly whey emitting coagulum and it had an unsatisfactory bitter taste. A process milk batch was prepared from skimmilk having 0.06 fat content, and the milk was protein fortified like in example 1, to a protein content of 5.0 g 100 g milk. The milk had an addition of 0.4 g yeast extract per liter milk. The process tank was sterilized like in examples 11 14, and the milk was inoculated with 17 Lactobacillus acidophilus, neo type strain and the substrate was allowed to grow at 35 The bulk starter culture No. 4 had been grown in tyndallized milk and it contained about 10,000 bacillus per ml. Like in example 15, the contaminating bacteria quickly became predominating, and already after 10 hours growth time, the pH value had dropped to 4.6 and the product thereby contained more than 100 millions bacillus per ml and was quite unacceptable. In the above examples, the process milk batch has been prepared using the slow growing bacteria L. acidophilus, but also other types of slow growing bacteria can be used, as can be examplified in the following. It should be noted, that also quick growing bacteria can be used in the method according to the invention, but in such case, the method may be considered uneconomical and the invention is especially advantageous when growing bacteria having slow growth capacity. A process milk batch was prepared like in example 1, from milk which had a fat content of 3 , which was protein fortified by an addition of skimmilk protein powder giving a protein content of 5 g 100 g milk. No growth stimulant was added, but by the bulk starter culture the milk obtained a slight amount of yeast extract. The process tank was sterilized by careful cleaned and subsequent disinfection by means of steam, so that the tank became sterile. The milk mixture was UHT treated by indirect method heat exchanger at 140 In this example, the milk was inoculated with 10 of the infection free bulk starter culture B. adolescentis, and the culture was grown in UHT treated bacteria free milk 3 fat content . By the bulk starter culture, the milk obtained an addition of yeast extract in an amount of 50 mg l. The culture grew relatively quickly, and the content of bacillus was low, less than 500 per ml. The processed milk, which had an acetic acid aroma which is typical for the Bifidus milk, was quite satisfactory. A process milk batch was prepared like in example 17, from skimmilk having less than 0.1 g fat content and being protein fortified like in example 17, to a protein content of 5 g 100 g milk. The milk got an addition of 1 g yeast extract per litre milk. The process tank was sterilized and the milk was UHT treated like in example 17. The milk was inoculated with 10 bulk starter culture No. 6, Bifidobacterium adolescentis, and the substrate was grown at 38 Already from the beginning, the bulk starter culture No. 6 had a very high content of foreign bacteria, since said culture had been grown in a non bacteria free milk. The said contaminating bacteria became predominant over the slow growing Bifidobacteria and already after 10 hours the milk had been acidified. The taste, consistency and amount of contaminating bacteria of the product, was quite unacceptable. A process milk batch was prepared from milk, which had 1 fat content and which was protein fortified by an addition of skimmilk powder so that the protein content was 4 g 100 g milk. The process tank was sterilized like in examples 17 and 18 and the milk mixture was UHT treated by direct steam injection at 140 The content of contaminating bacteria was less than 100 per ml and the product had a typical taste and an acceptabel consistency. A process milk batch was prepared like in example 1, from milk having 1 fat content and a non fortified protein content of 3.6 g 100 g milk. Yeast extract was added in an amount of 5 g l milk. The process tank was sterilized like in examples 17 19, and the milk was heat treated as normally within this technical field at 95 In this example, the milk was subjected to a normal heat treatment before the culture was grown, and, in spite that the bulk starter culture was free from infection and was added in a high amount bacillus grew quickly and had already after 8 hours reached a content of more than 100,000 per ml, 6,300 per ml of which was Bacillus cereus. Therefore the product was not acceptable, and further it had a strong yeast taste and insufficient consistency depending on protein flaking. A process milk batch was prepared like in example 1, from a mixture of two parts skimmilk and one part whey. The fat content was less than 0.1 g 100 g. The milk mixture obtained an addition of in total 0.6 g yeast extract per liter. The process tank was sterilized like in examples 17 20 and the milk mixture was UHT treated by direct injection of steam of 140 The coagulated process milk had a typical taste and a content of contaminating bacteria of 900 per ml. The content of Bacillus cereus was less than 100 per ml and the product had a good quality. A process milk was prepared like in example 1, from milk having 3 fat content. Skimmilk protein powder was added so that the protein content of the milk was 4 g 100 g milk. No growth stimulating agent was added. The process tank was carefully cleaned and disinfected by a subsequent steam process. The milk was UHT treated by direct injection of steam of 140 The process milk had coagulated and had a pure milk sour taste. The content of contaminating bacteria was less than 100 per ml, and the product was of good quality. In all of the above examples the process milk has been inoculated only with a specific strain of slow growing bacteria. The manufacturing techniques according to the invention, however, is also advantageous if more than one strain or specie is used, but preferably all strains should be slow growing. A process milk was prepared from milk having 3 fat content and having an addition of yeast extract in an amount of 0.4 g l. The milk was protein fortified by an addition of sodiumcaseinate to a protein content of 4 g 100 g milk. The process tank was carefully washed and disinfected with a preparation available on the market and comprising hydrogene peroxide, peracetic acid and acetic acid. The disinfection solution was circulated for 30 minutes and was thereafter allowed to stand until the equipment was used. Thereby the solution was drained and the equipment was rinsed with a bacteria poor, rinsing water having less than 1 bacteria ml. The UHT treated milk was supplied to the tank and was inoculated with 3 of bulk starter culture No. 1, L. acidophilus and 5 of bulk starter culture No. 5 B. adolescentus and 5 of bulk starter culture No. 7 B. breve. The milk was maintained at 36 In spite of the minor inoculation amount of L. acidophilus, said bacteria became dominating in the product, since they grew somewhat quicker than the Bifidobacteria. The later bacteria, however, were present in a sufficient amount. The product had a satisfactory taste which was not as acetic sour as in examples 17, 19 and 21. The content of contaminating bacteria was less than 1,000 per ml, and as a whole, the product was considered satisfactory.