# Process for producing a semiconductor device having insulating film.

## Abstract
A semiconductor device may include an insulating film 12 as a gate insulation film of a MISFET, a dielectric of a capacitor, a passivation film, and as a mask for selectively forming its circuit elements. According to this invention an insulating film 12 in a semiconductor device is formed by nitriding at least a sur face portion 15 of a silicon dioxide film 12 . The nitrided silicon dioxide film is more dense than a silicon nitride film deposited from the vapour phase and, in addition, no sharp interface is formed between the nitride layer and the dioxide layer so that the number of recombina tion centres is reduced.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process of forming a semiconductor device including an insulating film by forming a silicon dioxide film on a semiconductor silicon substrate and nitriding the film characterised in that the silicon dioxide film is formed on at least a portion of the silicon substrate by thermal oxidation and the resultant silicon dioxide film is heated in a nitridating atmosphere to react at least part of the exposed surface of the silicon dioxide film to form silicon oxynitride. 2. A process according to claim 1 characterised in that the exposed film of silicon dioxide is formed to be from 3 to 2000 nm thick. 3. A process according to claim 1 or claim 2 for producing a semiconductor device including an insulating film characterised in that it comprises the further steps of providing the silicon dioxide film and the silicon oxynitride layer with a pattern of a mask for selective diffusion and diffusing impurities into the silicon substrate in such manner that the impurities do not completely diffuse into the silicon substrate below the selective diffusion mask. 4. A process for producing a semiconductor device including an insulating film of silicon oxynitride characterised by forming a film consisting essentially of a silicon nitride on a silicon substrate by subjecting the substrate to direct thermal nitridation by contact with gaseous nitrogen, oxidising at least a portion of the silicon nitride film by direct oxidation and subsequently heating the silicon substrate in a nitridating atmosphere to react at least a portion of the exposed oxidised surface to silicon oxynitride. 5. A process according to claim 4 characterised in that the film consisting essentially of silicon nitride is made by heating the silicon substrate to a temperature within the range of 900 to 13000C in a nitrogen containing atmosphere with an Dxidant impurity in an amount of less than 100 ppm and wherein the oxidising step comprises heating the silicon oxynitride film in anoxidising atmosphere at a temperature within the range 500 to 13000C. 6. A process for producing a semiconductor device including at least one Misfet characterised in that it comprises depositing a polycrystalline silicon film on the silicon oxynitride insulating film, selectively removing the polycrystalline silicon film and thereby providing the remaining polycrystalline silicon film with a pattern of a gate electrode of the at least one Misfet element, exposing a portion of the silicon oxynitride surface film and heating the substrate in an oxidation atmosphere, thereby forming a silicon dioxide film on the polycrystalline silicon film and converting substantially the silicon oxynitride to silicon dioxide and removing the exposed insulating film, thereby exposing a portion or portions of the semiconductor silicon substrate, while the silicon dioxide film on the polycrystalline silicon film is removed by an amount corresponding to the thickness of the silicon oxynitride insulating film. 7. A process for producing a semiconductor device including at least one RAM element characterised in that itcomprises heating a silicon substrate having an exposed silicon dioxide layer to react at least part of the exposed dioxide surface to form silicon oxynitride, depositing a polycrystalline film containing silicon on the silicon oxynitride insulating film, selectively removing the polycrystalline film and thereby providing the remaining polycrystalline film with an electrode pattern of a capacitor element for storing electric charges of the at least one RAM element and further thereby exposing a portion of the insulating film, heating the substrate in an oxidising atmosphere thereby forming a silicon dioxide film on the polycrystalline film having the electrode pattern of the capacitor element and forming a conductive film having a gate electrode pattern of a transistor of the at least one RAM element on both the silicon dioxide film and a portion of the exposed surface of the silicon oxynitride insulating film. 8. A process according to claim 7 characterised in that it comprises the further step of doping impurities into the separate exposed portions of the semiconductor silicon substrate thereby forming in these portions the source and drain regions of each of the at least one Misfet, each of these regions having a width in the range of 1 to 4 microns. 9. A process according to claim 7 characterised in that the silicon dioxide film which is formed on the polycrystalline film having the electrode pattern of the capacitor element has a thickness in the range 50 to 2000 nm and the insulating film has a thickness in the range 3 to 500 nm. 10. A process according to any of claims 6 to 9 in which the oxynitride film is formed by a process according to any of claims 1 to 5. 11. A semiconductor device including a silicon substrate and an insulating film characterised in that the insulating film has been formed by nitridating at least a surface portion of a silicon dioxide film. 12. A device according to claim 11 characterised in that the insulating film has been formed by oxidising at least a portion of a silicon nitride film which has been formed by direct thermal nitridation of the silicon substrate surface, and subsequently subjecting at least a portion of the oxidised surface to the nitridation. 13. A semiconductor device according to claim 11 or claim 12 characterised in that at least one upper surface of the insulating film comprises silicon oxynitride and the nitrogen content of the oxynitride decreases gradually from the surface towards the interior of the insulating film. 14. A device according to any of claims 11 to 13 characterised in that it includes at least oneMisfet element and the insulating film forms the gate insulation of the at least one Misfet element. 15. A device according to claim 14 characterised in that the insulating film has a thickness in the range of 3 to 19 nm and the film of silicon oxynitride has a thickness in the range 2 to 10 nm. 16. A device according to any of claims 11 to 15 including at least one Misfet element and an insulating film covering the at least one Misfet element, the insulating film being formed by nitridating a silicon dioxide film deposited over the Misfet element. 17. A device according to any of claims 11 to 16 wherein it includes at least one capacitor having its diametric layer formed by the insulating film. 18. A device according to any of claims 11 to 17 characterised in that the surface state density of the insulating film is in a range of from 5 x 1011 to 1 x at at a silicon surface potential of 0.3 ev.

## Description
SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICE HAVING INSULATIVE FILM AND PROCESS FOR PRODUCING THE SAME The present invention relates to a semiconductor device having an insulating film and process for producing it. In particular the present invention relates to the manufacture and use of such a film as a gate insulation film of a MISFET, a dielectric of capacitor, a passivation film and as a mask for selectively forming circuit elements of semiconductor devices. Materials that have been used as insulating films in silicon semiconductor devices in the past include silicon dioxide SiO2 , silicon nitride Si3N4 and silicon oxynitride SiO N . Silicon dioxide is usually xy formed by a thermal oxidation of the silicon substrate or CVD or controlled vapour deposition process and thus, is inherently not dense. Silicon nitride has always been formed by CVD process or by directly nitridating silicon. Silicon oxynitride has been formed by a CVD process using NH3, O2 and SiH4 gases. It is also known to use a double film, wherein alumina A1203 , silicon nitride or a mixture of A1203 and Si3N4 is applied or laminated on a silicon dioxide film. The known insulating single or double film is, however, unstable during the production or operation of the semiconductor device, and does not have a dense structure.Furthermore, it is inevitable that an interface is caused between the insulating film and the silicon substrate when it is applied by the CVD process. In the known CVD process for producing silicon oxynitride, monosilane SiH4 , ammonia NH3 and oxygen 02 are brought into reaction with each other at a temperature of, for example, 7000C. The molar ratio of ammonia with respect to oxygen may be varied or changed gradually during the CVD period. However, the silicon oxynitride produced by this CVD process possesses structural defects. The inventors of the present invention believe that the structural defects are caused by the fact that intermediate reaction products of theCVD reaction are incorporated into the insulation film. A further disadvantage of the CVD process mentioned above is that it is difficult precisely to adjust the thickness of the silicon oxynitride film, and to form a film having a thickness of 100 angstroms or less. It is well known in the field of semiconductor devices to use silicon dioxide SiO2 as an insulating film on a semiconductor silicon substrate. Since the semiconductor device is required to operate both reliably and stably for a long period of time, contamination of the semiconductor substrate surface, which is believed to be the major reason for deterioration in its reliability, is prevented by covering the surface of the semiconductor substrate with a silicon dioxide film. Silicon dioxide is the insulating material which is most frequently used for such covering, namely for surface passivation. It is also known that a single film of silicon dioxide cannot effectively prevent the surface of the semiconductor substrate from being contaminated by contaminants, such as moisture or sodium ions, from outside the semiconductor device. Accordingly, an upper film of alumina A1203 is sometimes applied on the film of silicon dioxide. Instead of the alumina film, a phosphorus glass layer, a boron glass layer or a lead glass layer may be formed on the silicon dioxide film. The formation of the phosphorus glass layer or phosphorus treatment can be simply carried out and effectively passivates the semiconductor surface. Although the phosphorus treatment is most frequently used in the industrial production of semiconductor devices, the surface of the passivation film, on which the phosphorus is impregnated, is hygroscopic and, hence, unstable. It is also known that the silicon dioxide film, which can be formed by directly oxidising the silicon substrate, is superior to an insulating film directly, deposited on the silicon substrate by the CVD process.This is because the CVD process involves a contamination of the interface between the film and substrate due to vapour sources. In the MIS metal insulator semiconductor typeFETs field effect transistors or MISFETs, the gate insulation films conventionally used include a silicon dioxide film, a double structure film composed of a lower silicon dioxide layer and an upper silicon nitride or oxynitride layer, and a silicon oxide film, which is subjected to the phosphorus treatment mentioned above.The silicon dioxide film used for the gate insulation film of MISFETs is formed by the thermal oxidation of silicon. However, since silicon dioxide is not inherently dense, MISFETs with excellent properties and large scale integrated circuits cannot be produced from the silicon dioxide film. In the double structure film mentioned above, structural defects are liable to form at the interface of the two layers, with the result that the structural defects act as recombination centres for the change carriers. Due to the structural defects, the operation of the MISFETs having the gate insulation film of double structure becomes unstable.When a high electric field amounting to 106V cm is applied to the gate insulation film of the MISFETs, the instability problem due to the strucutral defects is serious, because the threshold voltages VTH of the gate are scattered and varied during the operation of the MISFETs. When the conventional silicon dioxide film, which is subjected to the phosphorus treatment, is subjected to a high electric potential, polarisation is induced in the silicon dioxide film, with the result that the electric potential of the semiconductor substrate surface is varied. This variation of the electric potential results in instability of the MISFETs. Diffusion of impurities into a semiconductor substrate is an indispensable step in the production of a semiconductor device. Diffusion is frequently carried out by a selective diffusion technique in which an insulating mask is used. It is known that a thermal oxidation film of silicon dioxide SiO2 can be used for the diffusion mask, but that such film does not form an effective mask against particular kinds of impurities, for example, gallium or boron. With regard to gallium, the gallium atoms enter the silicon dioxide film and then the underlying semiconductor substrate. The impurity boron, which is usually diffused under a hydrogen atmosphere into the semiconductor substrate, also enters the silicon dioxide film through the auxiliary action of the hydrogen. A thermal oxidation film of silicon dioxide cannot, therefore, be used as a mask in the selective diffusion of gallium and boron. It is also known that a film of silicon nitride ion4 formed by the CVD process can be used as a diffusion mask. However, a thin silicon nitride film which is formed by the CVD process on the silicon substrate lacks unifomity, whilst a thick silicon nitride film is liable to generate thermal stresses or cracks between the semiconductor substrate and the silicon nitride film. In the production of semiconductor devices, metallic material is frequently deposited over an insulating film for the purposes of, for example, bonding metallic leads on a semiconductor substrate provided with an insulating film and for producing a multi layer wiring structure of integrated circuits. Since silicon dioxide SiO2 is frequently used as the insulating film, metals having superior adhering property with the silicon dioxide, such as aluminium Al , molybdenum Mo , polycrystalline silicon, chromium Cr and titanium Ti , are used for the conductor material.The more the metals are oxidation reactive, the higher the bonding strength between the insulating film and the metal. At the interface between the highly oxidationreactive metal film and the silicon dioxide film a transitional layer is created after the deposition of the metal film in which layer the metal is oxidised by the oxygen of the silicon divide. It is believed by experts in the field of semiconductor technology that the adhering property of the metals mentioned above is increased by this transitional layer. However, the insulating properties of a thin silicon dioxide film deteriorate by this reaction between the metal and silicon dioxide, namely, by the removal of oxygen from the silicon dioxide film. A conventional capacitor used in integrated semiconductor devices has a structure in which an insulating film is deposited on a metal or semicondcutor substrate and is coated by a counter electrode made of metal.Since capacitors for such semiconductor devices are required to be compact and inexpensive, and to have a large capacitance, a film made of silicon dioxide SiO2 alumina awl2 3 and silicon nitride Si3N4 was conventionally used as their dielectric. This is because silicon dioxide can be produced simply by heating the semiconductor silicon substrate in an oxidising atmosphere, and the so produced silicon dioxide film is thin and free from such defects as pinholes. However, the thermally oxidised film of silicon is disadvantageous because of the facts that such film has low dielectric constant, is not highly resistant to emission of radiation and is not highly resistant to contamination from the outside of the semiconductor device. The alumina A1203 of the above mentioned film is generally formed by the CVD process or an anodic oxidation process and has a high dielectric constant. However, when the alumina film is thin, its leakage current is large and results in a current loss in the capacitor that is above an acceptable level. The silicon nitride Si3N4 of the above mentioned film may be formed by thermally nitridating silicon but the thickness of such a nitride film is limited, so that the maximum allowable voltage of such nitride film raises a problem. It is also known that films of silicon mono oxide SiO , tantalum oxide Ta205 and titanium dioxide tit2 can be used for the capacitor. However, the qualities of the films of these oxides are poor. It is, therefore, an object of the present invention to provide a dense insulating film for semiconductor devices which does not have the disadvantages of the conventional insulating films. According to this invention an insulating film in a semiconductor device is formed by nitriding at least a surface portion of a silicon dioxide film. The insulating film so formed according to this invention may be a silicon nitride or a so called silicon nitride or a so called silicon oxynitride, which is a silicon dioxide in which oxygen atoms are replaced although not stoichiometically, by nitrogen atoms. The silicon oxynitride formed by the present invention is distinguished from the known silicon oxynitride, formed by a CVD process using NH3, SiH4 and 02 gases since an oxidation film of silicon is subjected to a nitridating step in accordance with the present invention.The silicon oxynitride film according to the present invention is also distinguished from the known, double structure film of a lower, silicon dioxide layer and an upper, silicon nitride layer, because in the known structure, the silicon nitride layer is deposited on the silicon dioxide layer whilst in the present invention the silicon dioxide layer is at least partly nitrided or impregnated with nitrogen.Accordingly, the insulating film made in accordance with the present invention does not have the disadvantages, such as the formation of structural defects therein and contamination of the interface between such a film and the semiconductor silicon substrate. The insulating film made in accordance with the present invention may be a silicon nitride film, but it is distinguishable from a silicon nitride film formed by direct thermal nitridation of the silicon substrate. In the direct thermal nitridation of silicon, the silicon is heated to an elevated temperature in an ammonia atmosphere, and nitrogen atoms diffuse from the atmosphere into the substrate.The rate determining step in the direct thermal nitridation of silicon is, therefore, the diffusion step and, as a result, the growth rate of the nitride film reduces with the increase in thickness of the growing film, which impedes the diffusion of the nitrogen atoms. Accordingly, it is difficult to form a nitride film having a thickness of 100 angstroms or more by the direct thermal nitridation of silicon. It is known to form a silicon dioxide film by thermal oxidation of a semiconductor silicon substrate this comprises the step of heating the substrate to an elevated temperature of from 600 to 12000C in an oxidising atmosphere of, for example, oxygen or water.Depending on the purpose of the silicon dioxide film, the thickness of the film is selected to be in the range of from 30 to 20000 angstroms. The thermal oxidation of silicon is suitable for preventing the increase of electric charges on the surface of the silicon substrate to a level of more than 1012 cm 2. The nitridation process of silicon dioxide film according to the present invention may comprise a step of heating the semiconductor silicon substrate and the silicon dioxide film formed on the substrate to a temperature of from 900 to l30O0C, preferably from 1000 to l2000C in a nitradating atmosphere. Such atmosphere preferably comprises ammonia NH3 or hydrazine N2H4 . The nitridation atmosphere may also contain an inert gas such as argon, and residual gases such as oxygen.The flow rate of the gas should be from 100 to 50000 cc minute. The nitridation time should be at least 1 minute.The maximum nitridation time is dependent upon the extent of the desired nitridation. Thus, the nitridation time is increased when nitrogen is to be introduced to a large depth in the silicon dioxide film, and or when the nolar ratio of nitrogen to oxygen in the nitrided film is required to be high. The inventors believe that nitrogen atoms in the nascent state are formed from the decomposition of the ammonium or hydrazine, which atoms participate in the formation of the silicon oxynitride. Since experiments by the inventors have shown that no silicon oxynitride was formed by the heat treatment using molecular nitrogen gas, it is essential to use gaseous compounds, such as NH3 and N2H4, or ionised nitrogen in the form of a plasma for the nitridation atmosphere. The nitridation process of the silicon dioxide film according to the present invention may comprise the steps of forming a film consisting essentially of a silicon nitride on a silicon substrate , by subjecting the substrate to a direct thermal nitridation, oxydising a portion of the nitride film and subsequently heating the silicon substrate in a nitriding atmosphere to convert at least a portion of the oxidised surface to a silicon nitride. The process for forming a direct thermal nitride film ofesilicon comprises a step of heating the silicon substrate in a nitrogen containing atmosphere to a temperature of from 900 to 13000 C , preferably from 1000 to l2000C for a period of from 0.01 to 100 hours.The nitriding atmosphere may comprise a nitrogen compound , such as ammonia or hydrazine N2H4 . The nitrogen compound is preferably ammonia. The direct thermal nitride film of silicon preferably has thickness of from 20 to 100 angstroms, more preferably from 30 to 50 angstroms. Such a nitride film can be formed by using a nitridation atmosphere in which oxidant implurities, such as oxygen, water, carbon dioxide, etc., are reduced to a level of less than 100 ppm and by adjusting the nitridation temperature to a range of from 1200 to 13000C. It is preferable to completly clean the silicon substrate prior to the nitridation, by degreasing the silicon substrate in an organic solvent, boiling in a acid solution, preferably sulfuric and nitric acid, and etching in hydrofluoric acid. Prior to forming the direct thermal nitride film of silicon, it is preferable to heat the silicon substrate in an inert gas atmosphere at temperature of from 900 to 13000C. The oxidation step comprises heating the semiconductor silicon substrate provided with the nitride film to a temperature of from 500 to 13000C, preferably from 900 to 12000C, in an oxidizing atmosphere of oxygen or water. The film consisting essentially of silicon nitride is gradually changed to silicon oxide by oxygen atoms, which diffuse from the surface to the interior of the film. Silicon oxide or silicon oxynitride is, therefore, formed on the oxidized surface of the film. In the oxidation step mentioned above, the thickness of the oxidized, silicon nitride film is increased because the oxide film grows to a thickness of from 30 to 190 angstroms, preferably from 50 to 90 angstroms. The total thickness of the silicon nitride and the oxydized film is increased from the thickness of the nitride film directly after the thermal nitridation of silicon. The final nitridation step of the oxidized surface of the nitride film is carried out in the same manner as in the nitridation of the silicon dioxide film, explained hereinabove. The nitride film is usually formed, however, a film composed of a mixtrue of the oxide and nitride is formed when the nitridation time is short. Nitrogen atoms can easily diffuse through the upper oxidized film of the silicon nitride and reach the lower nitride film of silicon, which is formed by the first step of direct thermal nitridation and which is in contact with the semiconductor silicon substrate. Since the thickness of the lower nitride film is reduced as compared with that directly after the direct thermal nitridation of silicon, the nitrogen atoms can further diffuse through the lower nitride film onto the surface of the semiconductor silicon substrate. A new silicon nitride film is, therefore, formed on the surface of the semiconductor silicon substrate. Furthermore, the oxide film formed by the direct thermal nitridation step is gradually converted to silicon nitride film during the final nitridation step.The silicon nitride film after the final nitridation step is advantageously dense and has a thickness in the range of from 30 to 180 angstroms, preberably from 60 to 140 angstroms. The silicon nitride film having the thickness mentioned above is particularly suitable for the gate insulation film of MISFETs. An advantageous nitridation process for a thermal oxidation film of silicon comprises a step of heating the semiconductor silicon substate and the silicon dioxide film formed thereon to an elevated temperature in an atmosphere of plasma gas which contains nitrogen atoms.The plasma gas atmosphere can be generated from a nitrogen containing gas or gases. Such gas is, preferably, ammonium, hydrazine or nitrogen. The nitrogen containing gas can be mixed with hydrogen, hydrogen chloride or chlorine gases.The plasma gas may be generated by heating the source gas under a reduced pressure of from 0.01 to 10 Torr by means of an electric discharge. The electric charge is induced in a space in which the source gas is confined, by applying a high frequency current of from 50 to 1000 KHz and a voltage of from 1 KV to 100 KV. The nitridation process using the plasma gas is advantageous because various kinds of gases can be used and, further, the heating temperature is low, i.e. in the range of from 800 to 13000C, preferably from 800 to 11000C. The nitridation time using the plasma gas is reduced compared to that when using non plasma gases. The insulation films comprising the silicon oxynitride or the silicon nitride according to the present invention are not liable to contamination by impurities, such as moisture, and sodium and potasium ions. The surface state density ass of the insulation film is decreased considerably by the nitridation of silicon dioxide to a level of approximately SxlOll to lx1010 cm2 at a silicon surface potential of 0.3eV.It is believed by the Inventors that, because of a decrease in the drift of sodium ions due to the nitridation, the behaviour of the capacitance change depending upon the voltage applied to the insulation film is decisively influenced by injection of carriers into a trap level, which is present in the proximity of the interface between the silicon substrate and the insulation film comprising the silicon dioxide. In the nitridation by the non plasma gas, it is preferable to select the heating time in the range of from 1 to 5 hours and the heating temperature in the range of from 1000 to 12000C, so as to provide the insulation film with a low Nss. In the nitridation by the plasma gas, it is preferable to select the heating time in the range of from 1 to 5 hours and the heating temperature in the range of from 1000 to 12000C, so as to provide the insulation film with a low Under a high electric potential, the insulation films according to the present invention do not exhibit such disadvantageous behaviors as the movement of ions and the capturing phenomena of carriers in the film. The insulation film comprising the silicon oxynitride and the silicon nitride according to the present invention, have a high relative dielectric constant ranging from 4 to 5.3. Furthermore, the insulation films according to the present invention have a high breakdown voltage in the range of from 11 to 12 MV cW. The breakdown voltage is increased as the nitridation time increases. The silicon oxynitride film is highly resistant against etching solutions used in the production of semiconductor devices, such as hydrofluoric acid, ammonium floric acid and their mixed solution. The resistance against etching solution is increased with an increase in the nitridation time. The insulative film, which is formed by a nitridation of the thermal oxidation of the silicon substrate, has such a structure that this oxidation film is gradually converted to silicon oxynitride from the surface to the interior of this film. In other words, at least an upper surface of the insulative film comprises a silicon oxynitride, and the nitrogen content of the silicon oxynitride is gradually decreased from the surface to the interior thereof. Accordingly, the insulative film according to the present invention is dense and includes no structural defects, which are liable to form at the interface of the laminated structure of two different kinds of layers. The insulative film, which is formed by successive direct thermal nitridation, oxidation and nitridation steps, may have a structure different from that described above, but it is dense and includes no structural defects. The molar ratio of nitrogen to oxygen in the silicon oxynitride generally ranges from 1 10 to 10 1. The insulative films are formed according to the present invention by the nitridation of at least a portion of the thermal oxidation film of silicon or silicon nitride film. These films present no such inconveniences as contamination of the interface between the semiconductor substrate and the film due to the formation of the film, and polarization of carriers in the films caused by the electric field. Property variation of the insulative films due to movable ions is favourably suppressed by the nitridation of the silicon dioxide. Because of the facts mentioned above, the insulative films according to the present invention are suitable for use as a passivation film of a semiconductor device and a gate insulation film of an MISFET. The passivation film should have a thickness of from approximately 1000 to 20000 angstroms, preferably from 3000 to 10000 angstroms. The thermal oxidation film of the silicon substrate to be subjected to the nitridation should have a thickness of from approximately 50 to 20000 angstroms, preferably from 10G to 10000 angstroms. The nitridation time of the silicon dioxide film should be from approximately 1 to 600 minutes in plasma and non plasma atmospheres. When a dense passivation film in the range of from approximately 30 to 180 angstroms is desired, the direct thermal nitridation, thermal oxidation and nitridation of the silicon substrate should be performed successively.The direct thermal nitridation should be performed in such a manner that the nitride film grows to a thickness of from approximately 20 to 100 angstroms, preferably from 30 to 70 angstroms. The thermal oxidation time should be from approximately 0.01 to 100 hours, preferably from 0.1 to 10 hours. The nitridation after the thermal oxidation step should be carried out from approximately 0.01 to 100 hours, preferably from 0.1 to 10 hours. Since an electrode or wiring etc., are usually formed on the top surface of the semicondutor devices, not the thermal oxidation film of the silicon substrate but a silicon dioxide film, which is deposited on such top surface by a CVD, sputtering or vacuum evaporation process, may be subjected to the nitridation, and is used for the passivation film. The passivation films according to the present invention are highly resistant to contamination from the exterior of the semiconductor device, and enable long and stable operation of the semicondutor devices, with constant performance, even at high temperature. The insulative films according to the present invention are also suitable for use as a gate insulation film of an MISFET. The gate insulation film should have a thickness of from approximately 30 to 3000 angstroms, preferably from 50 to 1000 angstroms. The thermal oxidation film of the silicon substrate to be subjected to the nitridation should have a thickness of from approximately 30 to 3000 angstroms, preferably from 100 to 1000 angstroms.The nitridation time of the silicon dioxide film should be from approximately 0.01 to 100 hous in a plasma and non plasma atmosphere. When a dense gate insulation film in the range of from approximately 30 to 190 angstroms is desired, the direct thermal nitridation, thermal oxidation and nitridation of the silicon substrate should be performed successively.The direct thermal nitridation should be performed in such a manner that the nitride film grows to a thickness of from approximately 20 to 100 angstroms, preferably from 30 to 70 angstroms. The thermal oxidation time should be from approximately 0.01 to 100 hours, preferably from 0.1 to 10 hours. The nitridation after the thermal oxidation step should be carried out from approximately 0.01 to 100 hours, preferably from 0.1 to 10 hours. The gate insulation film according to the present invention is highly resistant to contamination from the exterior of the semiconductor device. At least one MISFET of a semiconductor device has the insulative films, which are formed by the nitridation of a direct oxidation film of a semiconductor silicon substrate according to the present invention, and operates stably over a long period of time because of the excellent properties of the insulative films. In addition, the variation of the threshold voltage of the MISFETs is considerably lower during the operation thereof than that of the MISFETs having a conventional gate insulation film. Furthermore, no problems of a decrease in mutual conductance gm and an increase in the surface state density Nss are presented during the operation of the MISFETs.The MISFETs according to the present invention are especially suitable for the elements of large scale integrated circuits. When MISFETs are provided with the field insulation film made of the insulative films according to the present invention, the MISFETs are particularly advantageous in view of their stable operation. In order to produce such MISFETs, it is preferable to simultaneously subject the field and gate insulation films of silicon dioxide to nitridation. The nitride surface of the field insulation film is not removed when selectively removing the gate insulation film, so as to form windows for the source and drain of an MISFET. It is, however, possible to entirely remove the nitride surface of the field insulation film, and subsequently, to subject the field insulation film to nitridation. In MISFETs a metal selected from the group consisting of aluminum, molybdenum, polycrystalline silicon, chromium and titanium, or especially the oxidation reactive metals, i.e., aluminum and molybdenum, can be advantageously used in combination with the insulative films according to the present invention for the gate insulation film. This is because these insulative films can effectively prevent the formation of a transitional layer. A transitional layer is formed by the reaction between the oxide film and the film of the metals mentioned above, while almost no such layer is formed by the reaction between the insulative films formed by the nitridation of the silicon oxide and the metals mentioned above. Since the surface of these insulative films is composed of silicon oxynitride, and thus contains oxides, a small amount of the transitional layer can be present due to the reaction between the oxides and the metals. However, the exsistence of oxides contribute to the enhancement of bonding strength of the metals with the insulative film.On the other hand, the existence of nitride in the insulative films prevents the unlimited increase of the transional layer In semiconductor devices, such metals as gold, aluminum and molybdenum, are used for wiring conductors and are deposited on an insulative material such as silicon dioxide. When the conductor and the silicon dioxide are heated to an elevated temperature, a reaction between the conductor and the silicon dioxide occurs. When such reaction causes an increase in the resistance and a property deterioration of the conductor, such reaction is undesirable and should be prevented. According to the insulative films of the present invention, the disadvantages mentioned above can be eliminated when heating the conductor and insulative material at a temperature ranging from 100 to l2000C. The insulative films for the gate insulation film and the underlying film of the conductor should have a thickness of from approximately 30 to 20000 angstroms, preferably from 100 to 10000 angstroms. The silicon oxide film to be subjected to the nitridation should have a thickness of from approximately 30 to 20000 angstroms, preferably from 100 to 10000 angstroms. The nitridation time of the silicon dioxide film should be from approximately 1 to 1000 minutes in plasma and non plasma atmospheres. When dense insulative films in the range of from approximately 30 to 180 angstroms is desired, the direct thermal nitridation, thermal oxidation and nitridation of the silicon substrate should be performed successively.The direct thermal nitridation should be performed in such a manner that the nitride film grows to a thickness of from approximately 20 to 100 angstroms, preferably from 30 to 70 angstoms. The thermal oxidation time should be from approximately 0.01 to 100 hours, preferably from 0.1 to 10 hours. The nitridation after the thermal oxidation step should be carried out from approximately 0.01 to 100 hours, preferably from 0.1 to 10 hours. When polycrystalline silicon is used for the gate electrode of the MISFETs, the MISFETs are advantageously produced by the process which comprises a step of simultaneous oxidation of the surface of the polycrystalline silicon film having a pattern of the gate electrode, and the surface of an insulative film, which is formed on the active region of the MISFETs and which is partly masked by the gate electrode pattern. At least a portion of the silicon dioxide of the insulative film is converted to a silicon nitride at least at a surface portion of the silicon dioxide film. In the simultaneous oxidation step, the oxidation is carried out in such a manner that the silicon oxynitride of the insulative film mentioned above is converted essentially to silicon dioxide.Since the oxidation rate of the polycrystalline silicon is considerably higher, i.e., approximately 8 100 times, than that of the silicon oxynitride, the thickness of the oxidation film on the polycrystalline film is from 5000 to 20000 angstroms and thus considerably greater than the thickness of the silicon oxynitride layer, which is oxidized by the simultaneous oxidation. This fact enables the selective removal of the oxidation film on the silicon substrate and thus, exposure of the substrate. The source and drain regions of MISFETs can be formed on the exposed portions of the substrate. Instead of conventional insulative masks as aPSG film for covering the gate electrode, the silicon dioxide film which is produced by the oxidation of the insulative film mentioned above is used for the gate electrode itself.In order to expose the source and drain regions, it was conventionally necessary to use the pattern of these regions and, then, to selectively remove the PSG film for the purpose of only forming windows through suchPSG film. On the other hand, by means of the simultaneous oxidation step mentioned above, the windows for the source and drain regions can be simply formed by means of a selfalignment technique with the insulative film covering the gate electrode. In addition, because of the non employment of the PSG film, the width of each of the source and drain regions can be reduced to from 1 to 4 microns, for example 2 microns. The conventional sized, source and drain regions had width of 6 microns.In order to form the source and drain regions, impurity ions may be ion implanted through the oxynitride layer and oxide layer or diffused after removal of these layers. It is possible to dope the impurity ions into the polycrystalline silicon film at the same time as the implantation of ions into the source and drain regions. The simultaneous oxidation method as explained above can be utilized for the production of RAMs random access memories which comprise a capacitor element for storing electric charges or carriers and a gate element of an MOSFET element. In an advantageous process for producing the RAMs, an insulative film, the surface of which is subjected to a nitridation, is formed on a semiconductor silicon substrate to a thickness of from approximately 30 to 5000 angstroms. A polycrystalline silicon film having an electrode pattern of the capacitor element is deposited on the insulative film, and subsequently, both the polycrystalline silicon film and the insulative film are simultaneously oxidized in the manner explained previously.As a result of this oxidation, a silicon dioxide film having a thickness in the range of from approximately 500 to 20000 angstroms is formed on the polycrystalline silicon film for the electrode of the capacitor element. The thickness of the insulative film mentioned above is not increased an appreciable amount by the simultaneous oxidation. After the simultaneous oxidation, a conductive material film, such as a film of aluminum or polycrystalline silicon, is deposited both on the silicon dioxide film and the insulative film which is oxidized due to the simultaneous oxidation.The conductive material film is then selectively removed to form an electrode pattern of the transistor gate.Accordingly, the transistor gate electrode and the memory cell electrode are completely isolated by a thick silicon dioxide film which is formed on the latter electrode. In the process for producing the RAMs explained hereinabove, it is important that the film of silicon dioxide film between the electrodes of transistor gate and memory cell be considerably thicker than the insulative film of transistor gate. If the thickness of the silicon dioxide film is as thin as that of the gate insulative film, short circuits between the electrodes of the transistor gate and the memory cell are liable to occur. Instead of the polycrystalline silicon, a polycrystalline metal silicide, such as platinum silicide or molybdenum silicide, can be used. The insulative films according to the present invention are also suitable for use as a mask against selective diffusion of impurities into a semiconductor silicon substrate. One of the insulative masks, i.e. the nitridation film of a silicon dioxide film, which is dioxide film formed by a thermal oxidation of silicon, is stable at an elevated temperature of even l2000C and has an excellent adhering property with the substrate, because the silicon dioxide is formed by a thermal oxidation of tile silicon substrate. Since the surface of such silicon dioxide film is replaced in the diffusion mask by the silicon nitride, having a dense structure, the impurity diffusion through the mask is prevented with a certainty and hence selective diffusion is performed in a desirable manner. The diffusion mask should have a thickness of from approximately 50 to 10000 angstroms, preferably from 100 to 5000 angstroms. The thermal oxidation film of the silicon substrate to be subjected to the nitridation should have a thickness of from approximately 50 to 10000 angstroms, preferably from 100 to 5000 angstroms. The nitridation time of the silicon dioxide film should be from approximately 1 to 1000 minutes in a plasma and non plasma atmospheres. When a direct thermal nitridation, thermal oxidation and nitridation of the silicon substrate are performed successively. The direct thermal nitridation should be performed in such a manner that the nitride film grows to a thickness of from approximately 20 to 100 angstroms, preferably from 30 to 70 angstroms. The thermal oxidation time should be approximately from 0.1 to 100 hours, preferably from 0.1 to 10 hours. The nitridation after the thermal oxidation step should be carried out from approximately 0.1 to 100 hours, preferably from 0.1 to 10 hours. By means of the diffusion mask of the present invention, the selective diffusion can be carried out by using a very thin mask, with the result that the mask does not cause any thermal stress on the silicon substrate during the diffusion step. Side diffusion does not occur due to the excellent adherence between the thermal oxidationSiO2 layer of the diffusion mask and the silicon substrate.Accordingly, it is possible to produce fine diffused as on the silicon substrate. Furtheremore, although the conventional, silicon dioxide mask cannot mask the silicon substrate against the impurity boron under a hydrogen atmosphere, no such problem as the boron diffusion through the mask occurs during the diffusion and heat treatment steps when using the diffusion mask of the present invention.A property deterioration of the the Sio, layer and a property deterioration of an interface between the SiO2 layer and the silicon substrate are advantageously prevented by the diffusion mask of the present invention. The insulative films according to the present invention are furthermore suitable for use as the dielectric material of a capacitor of the semiconductor devices. An electrode is deposited on each of these insulative films. The insulative material film for the capacitor should have a thickness of from approximately 30 to 10000 angstroms, preferably 50 to 5000 angstroms. The thermal oxidation film of the silicon substrate to be subjected to the nitridation should have a thickness of from approximately 30 to 5000 angstroms, preferably from 50 to 3000 angstroms. The nitridation time of the silicon dioxide film should be from approximately 1 to 1000 minutes in the plasma and non plasma atmospheres. When a dense, insulative material film in the range of from approximately 30 to 180 angstroms is desired, the direct thermal nitridation, thermal oxidation and nitridation of the silicon substrate should be performed successively. The direct thermal nitridation should be preformed in such a manner that the nitride film grows to a thickness of from approximately 20 to 100 angstroms, preferably from 30 to 70 angstroms. The thermal oxidation time should be approximately from 0.1 to 100 hours, preferably from 0.1 to 10 hours. The nitridation after the thermal oxidation step should be carried out from approximately 0.1 to 100 hours, preferably from 0.1 to 10 hours. The insulative material of the capacitor according to the present invention exhibits higher dielectric constant than the dielectric constant of silicon dioxide.The relative dielectric constant of the insulative material according to the present invention is generally from 4 to 6. Since the insulative material can be made thin, it is possible to manufacture a capacitor having a high capacitance value from such insulative material. This capacitance value is approximately 30 higher than that of the conventional capacitor using a silicon dioxide as the dielectric material. A semiconductor memory cell according to the present invention is characterized by including the excellent capacitor element mentioned above on the semiconductor silicon substrate. Consequently, the amount of electric charges stored in a memory cell of the semiconductor device of the present invention is 30 higher than that in the case of using the conventional capacitor mentioned above. Accordingly, it is possible to read out the memory cell with a very low error rate. It is possible to reduce the thickness of the insulating material in a capacitor to between 30 to 100 angstroms. Since a large electric charge can be stored in a memory cell using a thin insulating film for a capacitor element of the memory cell, the area of the memory cell can be reduced to less than that used previously. The processes for producing a capacitor in accordance with the present invention is essentially the same as that for the MIS structure. However, a metal film desposited on the insulating material should be shaped to an effective electrode pattern of a small area ranging from l00mm2 to 1 x When, instead of manufacturing the capacitor element as an integral portion of the silicon substrate the capacitor element is to be formed as a separate element7 the silicon substrate is cut around the metal electrode. Various examples of methods and semiconductor devioes in accordance with this invention will now be described and contrasted with earlier, control examples, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which Figures 1, 2 and 3 are all graphs of the peak value of Auger analysis against time to demonstrate the depth of the nitride Figure 4 is a graph of the surface state density NSS , against time to show its variation with treatment time Figure 5 is a graph of contaminated ion density against temperature to demonstrate how the density varies with temperature of deposition Figure 6 is a graph of the breakdown voltage of the insulating film against nitration time Figures 7 to 12 are cross sections through a semiconductor device at various stages during the formation of an MISFET element Figures 13 to 16 are cross sections through a semiconductor device at various stages during the formation of an insulating layer Figure 17 is a cross section through a MISFET Figure 18 is a cross section through a MIS structure Figures 19 to 21 are cross sections through a semiconductor device at successive stages showing the formation of a different MISFET Figure 22 is a graph showing how the thickness of insulating film increases with time Figures 23 to 25 are cross sections through a semiconductor device at successive stages showing the formation of a RAM element Figures 26 and 27 are cross sections through a semiconductor device being formed by selective diffusion Figure 28 is a graph of the relative dielectric constant, of the insulating layer against treatment time and, Figures 29 and 30 are cross sections through a semiconductor device showing the formation of a dynamic memory element. Example 1 P type silicon substrates having a resistivity of between 4 and 5Q cm were heated to 10000C, for a period of 6 minutes, under an atmosphere of argon, which was bubbled through water having a temperature of 400C. As a result of the heating, a silicon dioxide film having a thickness of approximately 90 angstroms was formed on the silicon substrates. These silicon substrates were then heated to 12000C, for different period of time, in a nitridation atmosphere of ammonia with a flow rate of 5000cc minute. The heating time was 5 hours at the maximum. After the heating for 5 hours, the thickness of the insulating film had increased by approximately 10 angstroms.This film was subjected to an Auger analysis, wherein the oxygen and nitrogen components of the insulating film were ejected from the film by using the insulating film as a sputtering target. The surface portion of the insulating film was gradually removed by the sputtering. The result of Auger analysis was as shown in Fig. 1, in which the ordinate designates the Auger peak in an arbitrary unit and the abscissa designates the sputtering time. TheAuguer peak value of nitrogen denoted as n 1 n in Fig. 1 is approximately same as that of oxygen denoted as 2 without bombardment. This fact means that the molar ratio of oxygen and nitrogen is approximately same at the surface of the insulative film. The curve 1 gradually decreases due to the known knock on effect by the sputtering.The actual content of nitrogen atoms decreases in the interior from approximately 30 angstroms at the surface of the insulative film. In other words only the surface of the silicon dioxide is converted to silicon oxynitride. The index of refraction of the insulative film on the silicon substrates was measured. The maximum index of refraction was approximately 1.65 with regard to the insulative film formed after 5 hours of heating. Example 2 The process of Example 1 was repeated, except that the thermal oxidation film grew to a thickness of 500 angstroms, and further, the nitridation was carried out at 12000 for a period of 60 minutes. The results of Auger analysis was as shown inFig. 2. It will be apparent from Fig. 2 that the molar ratio of oxygen to nitrogen was approximately 2 1 at the surface of the insulative film. Example 3 P type silicon substrates having a resistivity between 4 and 5 cm were heated to 10000C, for a period of 35 minutes, under an atomsphere of argon, which was bubbled through water having a temperature of 500C. As a result of the heating, a silicon dioxide film having a thickness of approximately 500 angstroms was formed on the silicon substrates. Each of the substrates was then placed in a plasma generating apparatus, into which nitrogen gas was introduced. The pressure of the chamber was reduced to 10 1 Torr and the nitrogen gas was activated to plasma by an electric charge of 6 KV with a frequency of 400 KHz. The substrates exposed to the plasma gas of nitrogen were heated to 10300C, for a period of 5 hours at the maximum, by means of the RF power of 6 XV. The results of the Auger analysis was as shown inFig. 3. It will be apparent from Fig. 3, that the surface of the silicon oxide film was converted to the silicon oxynitride having a molar ratio of O N of approximately 2.5. The index of refraction of the insulative film on the silicon substrates was measured. The maximum index of refraction was approximately 16.5 with regard to the insulative film formed after approximately 5 hours of heating. The thickness of the insulative film was increased by approximately 20 angstroms after the plasma nitridation for 5 hours. Instead of the nitrogen gas, ammonia, a gaseous mixture of nitrogen and hydrogen, a gaseous mixture of nitrogen and hydrochloride, and a gaseous mixture of nitrogen and chlorine, were used separately for the source of the plasma gas. Essentially same results as explained above were obtained with these gases. Example 4 The process of Example 1 was repeated except that an aluminum electrode was vacuum evaporated on the insulative film to a thickness of 4000 angstroms. The measurement result of the surface state density ass is shown in Fig. 4, wherein the ordinate and abscissa designate Nss cm 2. rev 1 and heating time hours , respectively. The Nss values in Fig. 4 were measured under the condition that the electro static potential s at the interface between the substrate and the insulation film was set at 0.3 eV. It will be apparent from Fig. 4 that the Nss is reduced with an increase in the heating time. Example 5 The process of Example 2 was repeated, except that, the silicon substrates were heated in the nitration atmosphere for 2 hours in a temperature ranging from 900 to 12000 and further, an aluminum electrode was vacuum evaporated on the insulative film to a thickness of 4000 angstroms. The measurement result of the contaminated ion density Nion is shown in Fig. 5, wherein the ordinate and abscissa designate Nion cm 2 and heating temperature, respectively. It will be apparent from Fig. 5 that the Nion is reduced with an increase in the nitridation temperature. Example 6 The process of Example 1 was repeated, except that the thickness of the oxide films was 700 angstroms. The breakdown voltages of the produced films were measured.As is apparent from Fig. 6, in which the breakdown voltage per thickness of the insulative film breakdown field is shown in the ordinate, and the heating time in the nitridation atmosphere is shown in the abscissa, the breakdown voltage is increased as the increase in the heating time. Example 7 An MISFET was produced in the present Example as explained with reference to Figs. 7 through 12. Referring to Fig. 7, silicon dioxide film 12 was formed by thermal oxidation of a P type silicon substrate 11, having a resistivity of 1 .cm and including a boron dopant. A window was formed through the silicon dioxide film 12, so as to leave this film as a field insulation film. The window exposed an active region 13 of the substrate 11. Referring to Fig. 8, the active region 13 of silicon substrate exposed through the window was subjected to a thermal oxidation similar to that explained in Example 1, and a silicon dioxide film 14, for the gate insulation film, having a thickness of 500 angstroms was formed.Nitridation of the silicon oxide films 12 and 14 was performed under the conditions of heating the substrate 11, under an NH3 atmosphere, at 11000C for 30 minutes. The surface of the oxide films 12 and 14, for the field and gate insulations, respectively, which was converted to silicon oxynitride, is schematically shown in Fig. 9 by number 15 and . X11 marks. Referring to Fig. 10, a polycrystalline silicon film 16 was deposited by a CVD process on the silicon oxynitride 15 to a thickness of 3000 angstroms, and then, selectively removed to produce an electrode pattern of a gate of the MISFET. The insulative film the original oxide film 14 and the silicon oxynitride film 15 was, therefore, partly exposed, and then, the exposed insulative film was removed by an etching solution of a buffered hydrofluoric acid. During the etching, the polycrystalline silicon film 16 masked the underlying insulative film.The etching was terminated when the silicon substrate 11 was exposed. Windows 17 and 18 for the diffusion of the source and drain of the MISFET were formed by the etching. Referring to Fig. 11, a phospho silicate glass PSG film 19, containing 5 of phosphorus, was deposited by a CVD process to a thickness of approximately 3000 angstroms. Subseguently, the PSG film 19 was heated to 1000to, for 30 minutes, in a nitrogen atmosphere, thereby diffusing the phosphorus from the PSG film 19 into the substrate 11. An n type, source region 20 and drain region 21 were, therefore, formed on the diffused surface of the substrate 11. Referring to Fig. 12, the PSG film 19 was selectively removed to expose the source and drain regions 20 and 21, respectively, so that contact windows 22 and 23 of the electrodes were formed. Aluminum was deposited on the substrate and selectively removed to form the pattern of a source electrode 24 and a pattern of the drain electrode 25. Example 8 An MISFET was produced by a similar process to that described Example 7, using a plasma nitridation atmosphere.The process for producing the MISFET was the same as that described in Example 6, except for the nitridation method of the silicon dioxide film 12 Fig. 9i . The nitridation method was carried out for a period of approximately 60 minutes under the plasma nitridation condition explained in Example 3. Example 9 The present Example describes another method for forming a gate insulation film of an MISFET. Referring toFig. 13, a thin layer 30 of silicon nitride was formed on a P type semiconductor silicon substrate 11 having a resistivity of 10 a cm, by heating the substrate 11 at 1100 C, for 30 minutes, in an NH3 atmosphere. The thin layer 30 had a thickness of approximately 40 angstroms and was essentially composed of the silicon nitride. Referring to Fig. 14, the thin nitride layer 30 was partly converted to an oxidized layer 31 by heating the thin nitride layer 30 to 11000C, for 30 minutes, in an oxygen atmosphere, the oxygen of which was bubbled through water at 800C. Due to the heating in the oxygen atmosphere, the surface of the thin nitride layer 30 was oxidized to the layer 31, with the result that the thickness of the nitride layer 30 was reduced to 10 angstroms. Since the thickness of the oxidized layer 31 was 60 angstroms, the total thickness of the insulative layers 30 and 31 was 70 angstroms. Referring to Fig. 15, the oxidized layer 31 was partly converted to a nitrogen diffused layer 32 by again heating the substrate 11 to ll000C, for a period of 1 hour, in an NH3 atmosphere. Since nitrogen atoms were diffused from the atmosphere into the substrate 11 through the oxidized layer 31, the nitrogen content in the substrate 11 and the oxidized layer was gradually increased. The thickness of the layer 30 was, therefore, increased. Example 10 The process of Example 9 was further continued, so that the nitridation time related to Fig. 15 amounted to 5 hours. As seen in Figs. 15 and 16, the layers 30, 31 and 32 on the substrate 11 were completely subjected to the nitridation, andta nitrided film 33 having a thickness of 70 angstroms was formed. Example 11 On the MISFET produced in Example 7, a silicon dioxide film 26 Fig. 17 was formed by a CVD process to a thickness of 500 angstroms. The MISFET was then heated in a plasma atmosphere at 8500C, for 30 minutes. The plasma atmosphere was generated by applying an electrical discharge to a gaseous mixture of nitrogen and hydrogen in a volume ratio of 10 1. The electr ic a1dis b a rge was induced by applying a high frequency current of 400 KHz and 4 KV to the gaseous mixture under a pressure of 0.1 Torr. As a result of the heating under the plasma atmosphere, a silicon oxynitride layer was formed on the surface of the film 26 at a thickness of approximately 30 angstroms. Example 12 control A silicon dioxide film completely free from pin holes was formed on P type silicon substrates having a resistivity of 1 j1.cm to a thickness of 100 angstroms.An aluminum electrode was deposited on the silicon dioxide film. One of the substrates was heated together with silicon dioxide and aluminum electrode at 4500C, in an nitrogen N2 gas, for 30 minutes. The insulative properties of the silicon oxide film were found to have deteriorated due to the heat treatment. A molybdenum electrode was then deposited on the silicon dioxide film of the other substrate, and a heat treatment was carried out at a temperature of 10000C. As a result of the heat treatment molybdenum atoms were diffused into the silicon dioxide film, and a molybdenum electrode was partly oxidized by the silicon dioxide film.The deterioration of the insulative properties was more serious than in the case of the aluminum electrode. Example 13 Referring to Fig. 18, a silicon dioxide film 14 having a thickness of 100 angstroms was formed on silicon substrates 11 by heating the substrate to 9500C for a period of l0. minutes.ina dry oxygen atmosphejce. The so treated substrates 11 were heated to l2000C for a period of 1 hour in a nitridation atmosphere consisting of 100 of ammonia. As a result of the nitridation the surface of the film 12 was changed to silicon oxynitride layer 15 to a depth of approximately 30 angstroms from the surface of film 14. An aluminum film 16 was deposited on the film 14 to a thickness of approximately 1 micron by a vacuum deposition and then selectively removed to form an electrode pattern having a diameter of 1 mm.The so formed MIS structures as seen in Fig. 18 were heated to 4500C for 30 minutes, while one of the MIS structures was heated in a nitrogen atmosphere and the other was heated in an atmosphere of gaseous mixture of ammonia and hydrogen. A measurement of leak current was performed by applying an electric potential of 3M V cm to the MIS structures. Since no leak current was observed in the measurement, the film 12 was not deteriorated by the heat treatment. Example 14 control The process and measurement in Example 13 was repeated except for the nitridation of the silicon dioxide film 12. Leak current of 0.1 mA was observed. Example 15 The process of Example 13 was repeated. However, instead of the aluminum, gold to be used for the conductor of wiring was used in the present Example. After the heat treatment at approximately 4500C, neither resistance increase nor property deterioration of the gold film 16 Fig. 18 occurred. Example 16 Referring to Fig. 19, a silicon dioxide film 35 for the field insulation was selectively formed on the P type silicon substrate 11 to a thickness of approximately 8000 angstroms. On the exposed portion of the substrate 11 within the silicon dioxide film 35, a silicon dioxide film 14 having a thickness of 400 angstroms was formed by subjecting aid e xp o se d portion to an oxidation at 10000C for 30 minutes in a dry oxygen atmosphere. The silicon dioxide film 14 was then subjected to a nitridation at 11000C for a period of 1 hour in a purified ammonium atmosphere, and a silicon oxynitride layer 15 was formed to a thickness of approximately 30 angstroms.The total thickness of the layer 15 and the film 14, which was still composed of silicon dioxide, increased only 5 of the thickness of the original, silicon dioxide film 14. The polycrystalline silicon film 16 was then deposited on the silicon oxynitride layer 15 to a thickness of 4000 angstroms.Simultaneously with the deposition, the polycrystalline silicon film 16 was doped by impurities of phosphorus. Referring to Fig. 20, the top surface of the semiconductor structure as seen in Fig. 19 was oxidized at 11500C for 90 minutes in a dry oxygen atmosphere. Due to the oxidation, the polycrystalline silicon film 16 as well as the silicon oxynitride layer 15 were oxidized. The film formed by this oxidation is denoted as 40 in Fig. 20.Since the oxidation rate of the polycrystalline silicon is considerably higher than that of the silicon oxynitride, the thickness of the oxidation film 20 was not uniform, but the thickness of the film 40 on the polycrystalline silicon film 16 was 3000 angstroms and that on the substrate 11 was 420 angstroms. The oxidation film 40 on the silicon substrate did not consist only of the silicon dioxide but contained a trace amount of silicon nitride. However, the oxidation film formed both on the substrate 11 and the polycrystalline silicon film 16 consisted essentially of the silicon dioxide. Referring to Fig. 21, the oxidation film 40 was selectively removed by an etching solution containing hydrofluoric acid, so as to expose the silicon substrate 11.During the etching, the oxidation film 40 formed on the polycrystalline silicon film 16 was also removed in an amount corresponding to the thickness of the oxidation film 40 formed on the substrate 11. In other words, the thickness of the oxidation film 40 remaining as seen inFig. 21 had a thickness of approximately 2500 angstroms.Subsequently, the source region 20 and drain region 21 were formed by the diffusion of phosphorus. Aluminum electrodes not shown for the source and drain regions 20 and 21, respectively were formed by the conventional vacuum evaporation. Example 17 A silicon dioxide film was formed on a silicon substrate to a thickness of approximately 390 angstroms and, then, subjected to a nitridation at 12000C, for a period of 1 hour, in an ammonium atmosphere. As a result of the nitridation, 30 angstroms of the silicon dioxide film was converted to a silicon oxynitride. The silicon dioxide film as treated above and a polycrystalline silicon were oxidized at 11500C, for 90 minutes, in a dry oxygen. Fig. 22 illustrates a thickness 50 of the oxide film formed on the polycrystalline silicon and a tickness 51 of a growing film on the silicon substrate mentioned above. The thickness 50 amounted to approximately 3000 angstroms after the oxidation for a period of 90 minutes, while the thickness 51 exhibited only approximately 30 angstroms of increase after the oxidation for a period of 90 minutes. Example 18 Referring to Fig. 23, in which the same elements of the MISFET as in Fig. 19 are denoted with the same reference numerals, a doped, polycrystalline silicon film 42 was deposited on the insulative films 14 and 15 and, then, selectively removed. Referring to Fig. 24, a silicon dioxide film 43 having a thickness of approximately 2000 angstroms was formed on the polycrystalline silicon film 42 by heating the elements illustrated in Fig. 23 at 11500C, for 60 minutes, in a dry oxygen. The exposed silicon oxynitride layer 15 was not completely oxidized by the heat treatment, and a part of the silicon oxynitride remained on the surface of thesilicon substrate ll. . The elements 42, 43, and the portion of the insulative films 14, 15 and the silicon substrate 11 under these elements 42, 43 constitute a carrier storing element of a RAM random access memory . Referring to Fig. 25, a polycrystalline silicon film 44 for the gate electrode of a transistor was deposited on the silicon dioxide film 43 and the silicon oxynitride layer 15. The silicon oxynitride layer 15 was oxidized by the oxidation explained in connection with Fig. 24 but still contained silicon nitride. The polycrystalline silicon film 44 was shaped into a pattern of a gate electrode. Subsequently, arsenic ions As were ion implated at an energy of 150 KeV and a dosing amount of 2x1015 cm2, so as to dope impurities into the polycrystalline silicon film 44 and the input output region 45 of the transistor mentioned above. After the ion implantation, heat treatment was performed at 9000C for 30 minutes, so as to activate ion implanted impurites. Example 19 A silicon dioxide film 14 Fig. 26 was formed on a 100 silicon substrate 11 containing 5x1015 cm3 of borons in terms of acceptor concentration. The heat treatment for forming the silicon dioxide film 14 was performed at 9500C, for 10 minutes, in a dry oxygen atmosphere. The thickness of the silicon dioxide film 14 was approximately 100 angstroms. A surface portion of the silicon dioxide film 14 was converted to a layer silicon oxynitride layer 15, in which silicon oxide and nitride were mixed, by a heat treatment, for 1 hour, in a nitridation atmosphere containing 100 ammonia. The silicon oxynitride layer 14 had a thickness of approximately 30 angstroms. A photo resist film 48 was deposited on the silicon oxynitride layer 15 and exposed to a light through a mask, so as to form a window 48a.The layer 15 and film 14, which was exposed within the window 48a, were removed by an etching solution containing hydrofluoric acid. Referring to Fig. 27, the window 14 exposed the surface portion the silicon. substrate to form 2 diffused region 61. Impurities were selectively diffused by using the silicon oxynitride layer 15 and the silicon dioxide film 14 as a diffusion mask. Phosphine gas 60 contained in a nitrogen atmosphere in an amount of 3 was brought into contact with the substrate 11, at 10000C, for 30 minutes. An N type diffused layer 61, having a thickness of approximately 6000 angstroms, was formed by the diffusion.Impurities were diffused below the mask consisting of the silicon oxynitride layer 15 and the silicon dioxide film 14. Example 20 A capacitor structure as seen in Fig. 18 was produced under the following conditions. 1 Si icon substrate 11 N type silicon having a resistivity of 0.1 n cm. 2 Silicon dioxide film 14 thermal oxidation film having a thickness of approximately 100 angstroms and formed by a heat treatment at 10000C, for 5 minutes, in a dry oxygen. 3 Silicon oxynitride layer 15 thermal nitridation layer having a thickness of approximately 30 angstoms, and formed by a nitridation heat treatment at 12000C, for 1 hour, in a nitridation atmosphere of 100 NH3. 4 Electrode 16 aluminum electrode having a surface area of 1 mm2. The capacitor structure mentioned above was heated at 4000C in a nitrogen atmosphere in the final production step of the capacitor. The capacitance and dielectric loss tan rat 1 MHz were 3500 pF and 10 3,l0 , respectively. Example .21 The same capacitor as in Example 19 was produced by varing the nitridation time and the specific dielectric constant thereof was measured under the application of a high frequency voltage at 1 MH to the capacitor. The measurement results are as seen in Fig. 28. The relative dielectric constant of the capacitor at zero hour of heat treatment time was 3.85, while the specific dielectric constant increased to 5.30 after the heat treatment was carried out for 5 hours. The leak current did not increase after the heat treatment for 5 hours. Accordingly the increase of the relative dielectric constant, which amounts to 38 , means a decrease of dielectric loss tan S in an amount of 388. Example 22 A dynamic memory device was produced by a process corresponding to Figs. 23, 29 and 30. A field insulation film 35 having a thickness of 8000 angstroms was formed by a selective oxidation on theP type silicon substrate having a resistivity of 5 1 cm. A 30 thick silicon oxynitride layer 15 was formed on the thermal oxidation film 14 of silicon having a thickness of 200 angstroms. The nitridation treatment for forming the silicon oxynitride layer was carried out at 11000C, forI hour, in an ammonia atmosphere. A 3000 A thick electrode 42 for the carrier storing region of the substrate 11 was produced from a polycrystalline silicon. Referring to Fig. 29, the silicon dioxide film 14 and the silicon oxynitride layer 15 were selectively removed using the polycrystalline silicon electrode 42 as a mask, and a solution of buffered hydrofluoric acid as an etching agent. Subsequently, a heat treatment was performed at 11000C, for 30 minutes, in a dry oxygen atmosphere, thereby forming the silicon dioxide film 43, which had a thickness of approximately 700 angstroms. Referring to Fig. 30, a 3000 thick polycrystalline silicon film 44 was deposited and then selectively removed, so as to provide the film 44 with a pattern of the gate of a transistor for transferring carriers to and from the memory cell mentioned above. Subsequently, phosphorus ions P were injected into the polycrystalline silicon film 44 and the region N type region 45 of the substrate 11, at an ion energy of 150 KeV and a dosing amount of 2x1015 cm2.