# SOLID STATE RELAY FOR SPACE AND AVIONIC APPLICATIONS

## Claims
Festkörperrelais zum Steuern einer Wechselstrom Reihenschaltung mit einer Wechselstromquelle S und einer Wechselstromlast ZL , umfassend

## Description
The present invention relates to a solid state relay for aerospace applications according to the precharacterizing part of claim 1. It is known in aerospace applications and elsewhere to provide a relay for controlling the ON and OFF states of a load connected to an alternating current supply with a relay, such relays being advantageous whenever the control command is at a low level and the level of electric current which should be controlled is significant and or the load circuit must be isolated from the command circuit. At the present time alternating current loads can be connected to or disconnected from a source of alternating current by either an electromagnetic relay, i.e. a relay having moving parts, or a static relay which is generally of solid state construction and can be devoid of any moving parts. Aerospace applications put control devices for such purposes to rigorous test, because the environment in which the control circuit must operate is one of mechanical shock represented by the high energy forces of launching and acceleration or from collision, the stresses resulting from particle bombardment, and thermal extremes. Whether these relays are of a mechanical or moving part type or static type having no moving parts, they generally are designed to be bistable, i.e. to latch the load circuit in an operative condition upon receipt of an ON command and in turn deenergize the load upon receipt of an OFF command. The mechanical relay can comprise a latching relay having two coils, one of which is energized to place the relay in the ON state and the other of which can be energized to place the relay in the OFF state. The latching relay, therefore, is either on or off, depending upon which of the two coils is energized, and retains one of the two stable configurations until a configuration change command arises at the other coil. The latching relay systems currently in use for aerospace applications have both electrical and mechanical drawbacks. Among the mechanical drawbacks are the delicacy of the latching relay mechanism which limits the acceleration to which the relay can be subjected and thus the application of the relay, high tendency to contact wear limiting the operational life in terms of the number of useful operations, and fragile internal structure which can be damaged beyond repair by mechanical shock. The electrical drawbacks include the reliance for the electrical connection upon mechanical pressure provided by a spring urging the two contacts together, significant contact resistance differences from one unit to another and from time to time during use of each unit, thereby effecting detrimentally the reliability and reproducibility of the results. Furthermore, because of arcing phenomena, mostly with contact opening, contact surface deterioration occurs and radio frequency disturbances are created. Latching relays have other disadvantages as well. For example, the time required for complete opening or closing is generally of the order of tens of milliseconds, thereby requiring command pulses longer than the minimum opening or closing durations to ensure complete execution of the command. When the relay is exposed to the command for periods on the order of milliseconds but less than the minimum required, a bounce effect may result with repeated openings and closings of the contacts. It has thus been recognized that mechanical relays in many cases are not able to satisfy the desiderata of aerospace applications which require the relay to resist and tolerate the high vibrations and accelerations during a launching phase and the intensive particle bombardment of an orbit phase. Consequently, reliance has been placed largely upon static relays. A static relay for control of alternating current generally comprises a triac or controlled rectifier which acts as a solid state static circuit opening or circuit closing element in the alternating current circuit. The triac is, in turn, driven by a photo coupler which receives the external commands and provides the longer pulses required, while affording galvanic isolation of the command circuit from the alternating current load circuit. Such prior art solid state relays also have been found to be inadequate for modern aerospace applications. For one thing, such solid state circuits use components, like photocouplers, which suffer an aging phenomenon accelerated by high doses of space radiation. Furthermore, triacs are not generally among the components listed as acceptable for space applications under most standards because of poor reliability. GB A 1 525 924 discloses an electrical controller having a solid state relay similar to that of the precharacterizing part of claim 1 . Further, in FR A 2 387 554 a flip flop is illustrated which has an unsymmetrical configuration and which is powered with a pulsatinq DC voltage. This flip flop comprises first and second transistors, but is part of a circuitry which controls the switching of a triac. A resistor serves as current limiting device and not as a load. Furthermore, the current through this resistance in never really interrupted, because the circuitry comprising said two transistors serves for commanding whether a voltage which is sufficient to render the triac conductive is developed at a secondary transformer winding. It is the principal object of the present invention to provide a high reliability solid state relay of an alternating current load circuit, especially in aerospace applications, whereby the disadvantages of the afore described mechanical and solid state relays can be obviated. Another object of this invention is to provide a solid state relay for the purposes described which has improved reliability even under strenuous conditions prevalent in space and which can withstand shock and aging acceleration conditions with a minimum of difficulty. Still another object of the invention is to provide a relay which is composed of electronic components readily available on the standard space applications listed, which affords a shorter response time and which renders the switching of an alternating current also more efficient than has been the case heretofore. These objects and others which will become apparent hereinafter are attained, in accordance with the present invention, in a solid state relay for alternating current applications, especially for aerospace use, i.e. on rockets, space stations and satellites, which comprises the features as set forth in the characterizing part of claim 1. The relative simple circuit of the invention possesses all of the advantages enumerated above while obviating the problems described. The winding halves of the tapped secondary winding of the above mentioned current transformer can be selectively short circuited by semiconductor devices in the form of transistor switches receiving the ON command and the OFF command, respectively. The above and other objects, features and advantages of the present invention will become more readily apparent from the following description, reference being made to the accompanying drawing, in which From the drawing it will be apparent that on alternating current circuit can include an alternating current source 5 connected across a load Z The circuitry shown in the drawing also is able to maintain isolation between the alternating current circuit represented generally at C and the control circuit. This isolation is ensured by a current transformer T₁ whose primary winding N₁ is connected in series between the source S and the load ZL, this primary winding being traversed by the load current. The secondary winding is center tapped to form two coils N₂ and N₃ which are short circuited through a pair of transistors Q₂ and Q₃ through a resistor R₁ via diodes CR₁ and CR₂. More particularly, the diodes CR₁ and CR₂ are connected between the terminals of the coils N₂ and N₃ to the emitter of the transistor Q₂ whose collector lies in series with resistors R₇ and R₅ connected to the return bus R. The transistor Q₃ has its emitter collector circuit tied to the base of the transistor Q₂, resistors R₁ and R₆ forming the emitter base bias resistor for the two transistors. The OFF command is applied via a resistor R₂ to the base of the transistor Q₁ whose emitter collector circuit is bridged between the base and the return bus of transistor Q₃ while the ON command is applied through the resistor R₃ directly to the base of the transistor Q₃ which is latched in its conductive state until the OFF command is applied to the transistor Q₁. In the nonconductive phase of the transistor Q₃, transistor Q₂ remains conductive to maintain a short circuit condition in the secondary coils N₂, N₃. Consequently, when the transistor Q₂ and Q₃ keep the tapped winding short circuited, the primary winding assumes a very low impedance reflected by the impedance in the secondary winding and therefore as as a closed circuit to render the alternating current circuit C conductive and placing the load in its ON condition. When the short circuit or the secondary winding is removed by the OFF command, primary winding N₁ assumes a high impedance value, say, 5 k ohm and therefore impedes current flow. In practice, the circuit shown in FIGS. 1 and 2 can manage a 15 Watt load if the generator S provides 25 Veff sine or square wave. Since the transformer ratio is 1 2, the secondary current will be 300 mA. For the relay of the invention to be effective, it must provide a very high series impedance Z In a preferred example of the invention, where the load is 15 W, Z Using a transformer T₁ of the ultraperm 10 Vacuumschmelze GMBH of the toroidal armature type of the following dimensions Outer diameter 16 mm, internal diameter 12.5 mm, a height 8 mm, a winding constant A The number of the secondary turns N₂ must be 60 for the transformation ratio of 1 2. The detailed operation of the circuit is as follows The collector of transistor Q₃ draws a current equal to the load current through the emitter base junction of the transistor Q₂ to provide a proportional current in the emitter collector network of transistor Q₂. This collector current of transistor Q₂ provides the driving signal to the transistor Q₃ even when the external command is removed. Consequently, when an appropriate current pulse is applied to the transistor Q₃ base, i.e. the ON command transistor Q₂ and Q₃ are triggered so that all of the load current passes through the primary winding N₁ without impediment. When the OFF command is applied in the form of a current equal to one tenth of the load current Ia, the resistor Q₁ draws off the base current and, since the transistor Q₂ can no longer supply current to the base of the transistor Q₃, the electronic switch opens. The potential at the transistor Q₃ increases and terminates the flow of current into the base of transistor Q₂. In this manner, even when the transistor Q₁ is no longer driven by the OFF command, conductions of the transistors Q₂ and Q₃ are indicted and placed in their normally OFF quiescent state.