# Dewar apparatus.

## Abstract
An improved detector dewar assembly in which the flange supporting the upper cap of the dewar assembly comprises a radial ceramic matrix 16 , including buried electrical leads 65, 66, 67 . This ceramic matrix serves sev eral purposes. First, it provides a vacuum tight electric feed through which connects jumper wires from the delineated coldwell axial matrix 80 to a pin assembly 62 imbedded in the exterior portion of the matrix feedthrough. Second, it includes metalizations 90, 92 on either the outer diameter or the top surtace and on its lower surface in order to pro vide a surface for connecting by brazing or soldering the lower base 22 and upper cap 17, 18, 20 assemblies. This improved dewar assembly is comprised primarily of metal subassemblies which are easily assembled, disassembled and tested.

## Claims
Claims 1. Dewar apparatus for housing a radiation detector assembly 14 in a vacuum, which apparatus provides a means for electrical connection between elements of said detector assembly and other signal processing subassemblies exter nal to said apparatus, c h a r a c t e r i z e d b y A. an inner container 10 having an end surface 12 at a first end of said inner container B. an outer container 15 having a lower base member 21, 22 , a flange member 16 and cap members 18, 20 , said lower base member and said cap members coupled to said flange member such that each of said members forms a portion of an interior wall and an exterior wall of said outer container C. means 21, 106 for mounting said inner container 10 in said outer container 15 , said means for mounting positioned substantially at the base of said lower base member D. conductor means 62, 66, 67 integral with said flange member 16 , said conductor means providing a plurality of electrical connections from the inside of said outer container 10 to the outside of said outer container 15 while providing a seal to prevent any significant change in the vacuum which may be contained within said inner and outer containers and E. electrical connection means 37, 65, 80 for coupling said detector assembly 14 to said conductor means 62, 66, 67 , said electrical connection means located in the space between said inner container 10 and said outer container 15 . 2. Apparatus according to claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n t h a t said conductor means includes a pluraiity of inner and outer terminals and that said apparatus further comprises means 66 for connecting each of said inner terminals to each of said outer terminals, respect ively, by means of an electrical path which inhibits vacuum degradation of said apparatus. 3. Apparatus according to claim 2, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n t h a t said electrical path is physically made with at least one change in physical direc tion. 4. Apparatus according to claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n t h a t said conductor means includes A. at least two insulating layers 68, 70, 72 , including an outer layer and an inner layer B. a plurality of outer terminals 62 mounted on said out er layer 72 of said insulating layers C. a plurality of inner terminals 65 mounted on said inner layer 68 of said insulating layers and D. second electrical connection means 66 coupled between each of said outer terminals and said inner terminals, respectively, in a physical path which runs from said inner terminals through said inner layer, along the junction of said inner layer and said outer layer, through said outer layer, and then to said outer terminals. 5. Apparatus according to Claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n t h a t said conductor means includes A. at least three insulating layers 68, 70, 72 , including first and second outer layers and an inner layer B. a plurality of outer terminals 62 mounted on said first outer layer of said insulating layers C. a plurality of inner terminals 65 mounted on said second outer layer of said insulating layers and D. second electrical connection means 66 coupled between each of said outer terminals and said inner terminals, respectively, in a physical path which runs from said inner terminal through said second outer layer, along the junction of said second outer layer and said inner layer, through said inner layer, along the junction of said inner layer and said first outer layer, and then through said first outer layer to said outer terminals. 6. Apparatus according to claim 5, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n t h a t said second outer layer 68 forms a portion of the interior wall of said outer con tainer 15 , and wherein said first outer layer 72 forms a portion of the exterior wall of said outer container 15 . 7. Apparatus according to claim 6, further c h a r a c t e r i z e d by conductive tracks 65 applied on said internal wall of said second outer layer, said tracks connected at one end to said inner terminals 37 and at the other end to said second electrical connection means 66 . 8. Apparatus according to claim 6, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n t h a t said outer terminals further com prise a plurality of electrically conductive pin connectors 62 . 9. Apparatus according to claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n t h a t said conductor means 16 further comprises a multi layer ceramic matrix having a portion of said means for providing a plurality of electrical connec tions embedded therein. 10. Apparatus according to claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n t h a t said conductor means further includes A. first means 90 for bonding coupled with said conductor means 16 , said first means for bonding positioned on said exterior wall 72 of said outer container 15 to provide a mounting surface for said lower base 22 B. wherein the end of said conductor means 16 furthest from said inner container 10 , forms an outer cylindrical surface andC. second means 92 for bonding coupled with said conduc tor means 16 , said second means for bonding position ed on said outer cylindrical surface of said conductor plans in order to provide a mountina surface for one of said cap. members. 11. Apparatus according to claim 10, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n t h a t said first means 90 for bonding is located on said ceramic material at a position close to said inner container. 12. Appartus according to claim. 10, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n t h a t said first and second means for bonding comprise first and second metalizations 90, 92 , respectively, each of said metalizations integrated with said ceramic matrix 16 . 13. Apparatus according to claim 12, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n t h a t said metalizations are integrated with said ceramic matrix 16 by a process of cofired manufacture of said ceramic matrix and said metalizations.

## Description
Dewar Apparatus The present invention relates to a Dewar apparatus according to the preamble of claim 1 which in particular finds use in thermal imaging systems. In most thermal imaging systems using semiconductor detector devices, it is necessary to provide a housing or wdewar for the detector device which can be completely evacuated before the device is cryogenically cooled. The dewar must also provide electrical connection between the detector device inside the chamber and the housing exterior so that the device may be interfaced to other signal processing or imaging electronics. Typically, these dewars include several concentric cylindrical tubes or housings. The inner tube is generally comprised of a long cylindrical glass bore which opens to the base of the dewar. This bore, often referred to as the coldwell , is multifunctional. First, the top of the coldwell the endwell serves as a mounting surface for the detector device or array. A coldfinger or cryogenic cooling device is generally inserted into the bore of the coldwell to effect cooling of the detector array. Often, the exterior surfaces of the coldwell are metalized and etched or otherwise delineated in order to define conductive leads which run the length of the bore. This metalization also provides a thermally reflective shield which reduces heat load on the device. In prior art dewars, the base portion of the coldwell supports a flange to which a cap is attached. This cap is typically made of Kovar or some other metal which has appropriate structural and thermal properties and can maintain a hard vacuum. The portion of the cap directly above the detector array holds a small transmissive window, through which the array receives energy from a field of view. One type of dewar is shown in the article entitled Automatic Testing Of Infrared Detector Arrays , D. A. Jones,SPIE, Vol. 344, Infrared Sensor Technology 1982 . In such a dewar, the flange comprises a monolithic ceramic disc. The upper surface of such ceramic disc includes a radial pattern of conductive paths. These lead wires of the detector device are connected via jumper wires or delineated wires to these paths on the ceramic disc by delineated paths which run the length of the coldwell up to the jumper wires connected near the other end of the delineated coldwell. The opposite end of the conductive paths on the ceramic disc connect to a pin assembly covering substantially all of the disc outside the vacuum chamber.A tape cable connects these pins to a bias resistor board or pack and or an external connector located on the protective dewar housing. A dielectric ring covers the conductive paths on the inner portion of the ceramic disc providing an electrically insulated, vacuum tight surface. A metalized ring is deposited over the dielectric ring for brazing purposes. Similarly, another metalization is deposited on the other side of the ceramic disc providing a vacuum tight surface on which the lower support piece is mounted. The upper vacuum cap and lower base are attached to the ceramic by brazing to the metalized rings on either side of the monolithic ceramic. The above described design has some disadvantages. The fusing of the upper cap and lower flange assembly to the dielectric surfaces of the monolithic ceramic forms a relatively weak joint which is easily damaged during handling. Also, the use of conductive paths on the surface of the ceramic disc tends to create, in combination with the dielectric fusing process, a joint which may develop vacuum, leaks. Further, the dispersed pin configuration makes in process electrical testing difficult because the inner most pins are not readily accessible. In a second dewar design, a metal flange bonded to the glass coldwell serves primarily as a supporting member for the vacuum chamber cap and window. The base portion of the glass coldwell is thickened so that it may include buried conductive wires which surface above and below the flange thereby providing an electrical exit from the vacuum chamber. Gold jumper wires connect the detector array at the endwell to the delineated leads on either the coldwell or endwell. Gold wires are also used at the base of the coldwell to connect the coldwell delineated leads to the conductive wires which exit from the vacuum chamber. These are, in turn, connected to a tape cable or other standard electrical interconnect assembly. This second design also has some disadvantages. First, the fabrication of buried leads within the coldwell requires processing steps of molding, firing, grinding and honing the glass coldwell which must be accomplished with great precision, and are, therefore, very expensive. Second, this process does not lend itself well to in process testing.This results in further waste. Third, the gold jumper wire connections used above the flange are susceptible to breakage. Also, because the design uses many parts and requires the use of more complex assembly techniques, the cost per unit is higher. Accordingly, it is a primary object of the present invention to provide an improved detector dewar apparatus. This object of the present invention is achieved according to the characterizing features of claim 1. The dewar apparatus according to the invention has fewer parts, and uses a single ceramic ring to provide several functions, including a basal vacuum proof member of the dewar vessel chamber, a matrix for embedded vacuum proof electrical conductors, a mounting surface for the cap members and dewar base, and also an arrangement of components which facilitates in process testing. The above and other objects of the present invention are achieved in the illustrative embodiment as described with respect to the Figures in which Figure 1 shows a cross section through the dewar apparatus of the present invention Figure 2 shows a detailed cross sectional view through the ceramic matrix feedthrough and cap support member of the dewar apparatus of the present invention and Figure 3 shows a detailed cross sectional view through a portion of the present invention as shown in Figure 2, of an alternative embodiment of the present invention. Referring to Figures 1 and 2, the dewar apparatus of the present invention includes a coldwell 10 with endwell 12 which supports detector assembly 14, a vacuum vessel 15 having inner base 21 and outer base 22, ceramic matrix electrical feedthrough 16, lower cap 18 and upper cap 20 with transmissive window 24, and protective shield 27. Jumper wires 35 provide electrical connection between detector assembly 14 and the delineated matrix 80 on coldwell 10 or endwell 12. Jumper wires 37 connect the delineated leads of the axial matrix 80 on the basal portion of coldwell 10 to the feedthrough matrix 16 through conductive tracks 65, vias 66, conductive tracks 67, pins 62, tape cable 36, and ultimately to a standard external device connector 38 via pins 82.Connectors 38 may also be attached to bias resistor boards 42 sharing pins 82 in common in order to provide a tailored electrical resistance in each detecting elements circuit, together with circuit grounds, as required. Inner base 21 and outer base 22 and other vacuum chamber members 17, 18 and 20 may be made of any material which is mechanically rigid, has appropriate thermal properties, can hold a vacuum, and does not outgas impurities at an unacceptable rate once evacuated. Window 24 must have the same characteristics except that it must be optically trasmissive in the desired bandwidth. Typically, these members will be made of stainless steel, Kovar, or some other metal which may be easily assembled by, for example, soldering, welding or brazing techniques. Mounting plate 32 and protective shield support ring 34 will be made of stainless steel or aluminum, or some other metal which may be easily assembled by standard mechanical hardware.Similarly, shield 27 may be made of any mechanically durable and formable material, such as plastic or stainless steel.Protective shield 27, support ring 34, and mounting plate 32 may be attached by any suitable mechanical fasteners, such as screws 94 and 96 shown in Figure 2. Figure 3 shows an alternative embodiment of the basal portion of the apparatus of the present invention which allows for rotaticn of dewar vessel 15 with respect to stationary mounting plate 32. Ring 100 is fastened to outer base 22 via mechanical fastener 104. Protective shield 27 is, in turn, fastened to ring 100 via mechanical fastener 96. Plate 102 is a split ring clamp which, when fastener 94 is not tight, allows rotation of outer base 22 and dewar vessel 15 with respect to mounting plate 34 about joint 112 in order to properly align detector assembly 14. When fastener 94 is tightened, the positions of base 22 and mounting plate 34 are fixed. Coldwell 10 may be made of any material which is easily assembled to base 21, and which has low thermal conductivity, and high mechanical strength. Coldwell 10 may be made of glass which may be chamfered at the opening opposite the endwell 12, as shown in Figures 1 and 2, and sealed to inner base 21 by well known fusing processes. As shown in Figure 3, coldwell 10 need not be chamfered, but rather may Le directly fused to inner base 106. Alternatively, coldwell 10 may be made of metal, such as a cobalt nickel iron alloy which is brazed to inner base 21. In the latter case, the wall thickness of coldwell 10 may also be reduced to minimize thermal conductivity. Delineated matrix 80 on coldwell 10 may be made of either aluminum or gold using well known plating techniques. However, if a metal coldwell is used, a dielectric must be placed between coldwell 10 and delineated matrix 80.Alternatively, an internal tape cable may be used in place of matrix 80. Whether on a glass or metal coldwell, this plated surface also provides a thermally reflective surface which further lowers the overall radiative heat load of the dewar. Ceramic feedthrough assembly 16 is made of a ceramic or other insulating material capable of holding a hard vacuum.Feedthrough matrix 16 comprises multiple layers 68, 70 and 72 of material which have been attached, as shown in Figure 2.Electrical connection is made through matrix 16 from pin 62 to conductive track 65 by a combination of vias 66 and interleaved conductor tracks 67 made through and across the surfaces of layers 68, 70 and 72, as shown. It is noted that only one representative pin 62 of the several connector pin connections to tape cable 36 is shown. In addition, matrix 16 may include many more layers as required by the manufacturing process and pin layout. Matrix 16 is brazed to outer base 22 and cap support ring 17 at metalizations 90 and 92, respectively, as shown inFigures 1 and 2, or to metalizations 90 and 108 as shown inFigure 3. If a ceramic material is used for matrix 16, metalizations 90, 92 and 108 may be cofired during the manufacture of matrix 16, in order to provide a surface on the ceramic which may be brazed. This technique provides a significantly stronger bond than that attainable by prior techniques of brazing over a dielectric deposition. The embodiment shown in Figure 3 provides several additional advantages. First, placement of metalization 108 and mounting ring 110 on the top of layer 68 of ceramic matrix 16 reduces the stress on ceramic matrix 16 which may be caused by the differential expansion and contraction of mounting ring 110 and ceramic matrix 16 during the manufacturing process.Second, by placing ring 110 on the upper surface of layer 68, the tolerances on ring 110 are more relaxed than those on ring 17, which must fit around the outer diameter of ceramic matrix 16. Finally, the embodiment shown in Figure 3 is more easily manufactured, first, since gravity, rather than surface tension, holds the brazing material in place during manufacture. It should be noted that pinch off tube 28 may be positioned elsewhere on vessel 15, if required by packaging or other design constraints. The above described configuraticn provides several advantages. First, the cofired metalizations 90, 92 and 108 provide brazing surfaces which are more resistant to handling or end use breakage than the monolithic ceramic flange with dielectric rir,g previously used. Second, the design of the dewar apparatus of the present invention has substantially fewer parts, and requires simpler and less costly assembly techniques. Third, the use of and location of pin connectors 62 at matrix 16 provide the ability to test the detector assembly 14 before total assembly has been completed. Fourth, by incorporating the ceramic matrix 16 as one part of the vacuum chamber wall, the overall part count of the dewar is decreased. Finally, by incorporating pin connectors 62 on the exterior of matrix 16, the detector assembly 14 may be tested before final assembly with tape cable 36, bias resistor board 42 and external connector 38.