# Menthene sulphonates and the hydrogenated derivatives thereof.

## Abstract
p Menth 6 ene 7 methylol 2 sulphonic acid, p menthane 7 methylol 2 sulphonic acid, p menthane 7 sulphonic acid and p menthane 2 sulphonic acid and their alkali metal, alkaline earth metal, ammonium and alkylolammonium salts are disclosed. A process is provided for preparing the ammonium salts thereof. A method is presented for increasing the solubility of an only partially water soluble material using these sulfonic salts as a hydrotrope.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. p Menthene sulphonic acid derivatives and the alkali metal, alkaline earth metal, ammonium and alkylolammonium salts thereof, characterized by the general structure of the acid form EMI23.1 wherein X is H, SO3H or CH2OH wherein Y is H orSO3H wherein X is different from Y and wherein in case X is CH20H, Y is S03H and the carbon carbon ring bond in 6th position is saturated or unsaturated. 2. The use of the compounds according to claim 1 as hydrotropes. 3. A process for the preparation of the ammonium salt of p menth 6 ene 7 methylol 2 trans sulphonic acid, characterized in that it comprises a adding ammonium sulphite or bisulphite to a stirred aqueous or an aqueous organic co solvent dispersion of Nopol, the pH being maintained above 5.5 b maintaining a temperature of at least about 400C until said product has formed and c removing solvent from the reaction mixture. 4. A process for the preparation of the ammonium salt of p menthane 7 methylol 2 trans sulphonic acid, characterized in that it comprises a adding ammonium sulphite or bisulphite to a stirred aqueous or an aqueous organic co solvent dispersion of Nopol, the pH being maintained above 5.3 b maintaining a temperature of at least about 40 C until said product has formed c removing solvent from the reaction mixture and d hydrogenating the resultant product. 5. A process for the preparation of the ammonium salt of p menth 6 ene 7 methylol 2 cis sulphonic acid, characterized in that it comprises a adding ammonium sulphite or bisulphite to a stirred aqueous or an aqueous organic co solvent dispersion of Nopol, the pH being maintained at or below 5.5 b maintaining a temperature of at least about 40 C until said product has formed and c removing solvent from the reaction mixture. 6. A process for the preparation of the ammonium salt of p menthane 7 methylol 2 cis sulphonic acid, characterized in that it comprises a adding ammonium sulphite or bisulphite to a stirred aqueous or an aqueous organic co solvent dispersion of Nopol, the pH being maintained at or below 5.3 b maintaining a temperature of at least about 400C until said product has formed c removing solvent from the reaction mixture and d hydrogenating the resultant product. 7. A process for the preparation of a p menth6 ene 2 sulphonate salt, characterized in that it comprises reacting d pinene with a sulphite or bisulphite salt in the presence of a phase transfer catalyst, under free radical conditions, in an aqueous or an aqueous organic co solvent medium at a temperature of at least 400C until said p menth 6 ene2 sulphonate salt is formed. 8. A process according to any of the claims 3 to 7, wherein the organic co solvent is isopropanol or ethanol. 9. A process according to any of the claims 3 to 8, wherein the ratio of water to organic co solvent ranges from 1 100 to 100 1. 10. A process according to any of the claims 3 to 9, wherein the reaction is catalyzed by free radicals generated by an organic or inorganic peroxide, azo compound or oxygen. 11. A process according to claim 7, wherein the phase transfer catalyst is a quaternary ammonium or phosphonium salt having at least one organic hydrophobic group. 12. A process according to claim 7, wherein the peroxide is tert butyl peroxybenzoate.

## Description
MENTHENE SULPHONATES AND THE HYDROGENATED DERIVATIVES THEREOFThe invention relates to novel menthene sulphonates and the hydrogenated derivatives thereof, their use as hydrotropes and processes for their preparation.Many aqueous compositions contain organic components of poor water solubility. Hydrotropes are formulated into these liquids to increase the aqueous solubility of the hydrophobic organic components. Commonly employed hydrotropes include the salts of toluene, xylene or cumene sulphonates. Flhile these commercial compounds perform satisfactorily, there is a need for lower cost alternatives, especially materials not derived from petrochemical feedstocks.Among the relatively low cost renewable raw materials is turpentine, an extract of pine trees. Major components of turpentine are i and pinenes. When reacted with pyrosulphuryl chloride, i and ss pinenes yield sulphonate compounds as in U.S. Patent 2,220,678. Traynor et al., J. Org, Chem. Vol. 44, 1557, 1979, reports that sodium p menth 6 ene 2 sulphonate I can be formed from the dehydration of the reaction product between sodium sulphite and the i pinene derivative limonene oxide. This publication further discloses that p pinene will react with sodium bisulphite to form sodium p menth l ene 7 sulphonate II . The saturated analogs of I and II have apparently not yet been reported.Little is known concerning the utility of these sulphonated pinene derivatives. U.S.Patents 4,224,240 and 4,283,347, however, mention the possible utility of p menth l ene 7 sulphonate salts as detergents and surfactants.It is now an object of this invention to describe novel menthene sulphonate and menthane sulphonate salts.It is a further object to provide processes for their manufacture.Another object of this invention is to provide a method for solubilizing only partially water soluble compounds in aqueous formulations by means of menthene sulphonate and menthane sulphonate hydrotropes.p Menthane 7 sulphonic acid, p menthane 2 sulphonic acid, p menthane 7 methylol 2 sulphonic acid and pmenth 6 ene 7 methylol 2 sulphonic acid and their alkali metal, alkaline earth metal, ammonium and alkylolammonium salts are hereby disclosed.A process is provided for preparing p menth 6 ene 2sulphonate salt which comprises reacting pinene with a suiphite or bisuiphite salt in the presence of a phase transfer catalyst, under free radical conditions, in an aqueous organic co solvent medium at a temperature of at least 400C until said p menth 6 ene 2sulphonate salt is formed.Furthermore, a process is provided for preparing the ammonium salts of p menth 6 ene 7 methylol 2 sulphonic and p menthane 7 methylol 2 sulphonic acids comprising a adding ammonium bisulphite to a stirred aqueous or an aqueous organic co solvent dispersion of Nopol, the pH being maintained above 5.5 or below 5.3 to obtain predominantly either trans or cis isomers, respectively. b removing solvent from the reaction mixture and c optionally, hydrogenating the resultant products.Finally, a method is disclosed for increasing the solu bility of an only partially water soluble material comprising combining with said material in water a hydrotrope selected from the group consisting of the alkali metal, alkaline earth metal, ammonium and alkylolammonium salts of p menth 6 ene 7 methylol 2 sulphonic acid, p menth 6 ene 2 sulphonic acid, p menth l ene 7sulphonic acid and their saturated derivatives.Salts of six menthane sulphonates and menthene sulphonates have been prepared and found to be effective hydrotropes in aqueous media. These compounds are identified by the following structural formulae EMI3.1 where M is an alkali metal, alkaline earth metal, ammonium or alkylolammonium cation.According to Traynor et al. in the J. Org. Chem. article, compound I could not, by sulphonation, be prepared directly from d pinene. Competitive acid isomerization and hydration to terpineol was said to occur. These investigators were forced to prepare compound I by the circuitous route of epoxidizing o pinene. The epoxide was then reacted with sulphite, acidified by ionexchange chromatography and dehydrated to obtain I. Now it has been found that compound I can be directly prepared from pinene at atmospheric pressure. The procedure involves incremental additions of bisulphite or sulphite to aqueous or mixed aqueous organic cosolvent, pinene solutions in the presence of air or a free radical initiator.Compound III is synthesized from 6,6 dimethylbicyclo E3.l.l hept 2 ene 2 ethanol Nopol . Nopol is derived from a Prins reaction between ss pinene and formaldehyde. The procedure involves incremental additions of alkali metal or ammonium bisulphites to Nopol suspended in aqueous or mixed aqueous organic co solvent solutions in the presence of air or a free radical initiator. Ammonium sulphite may be used by decomposition in situ as a source of bisulphite. In general, the optimum pH for these reactions is between about 5 and 6.Where the ammonium salts of sulphite or bisulphite are employed, oxygen is the preferable free radical initiator. These reactions readily occur at atmospheric pressure.Sodium sulphite or bisulphite reactions are preferably initiated by organic or inorganic peroxides. Representative of the former type of free radical initiators are tert butyl peroxide, benzoyl peroxide, cumene hydroperoxide, tetralin hydroperoxide, isopropylbenzene hydroperoxide, acetyl peroxide, urea peroxide, diisopropyl peroxy dicarbonate, and, preferably, tert butyl peroxy benzoate. Inorganic initiators such as hydrogen peroxide, hydrazine sulphate, sodium percarbonate and sodium persulphate are also useful. Organic diazo initiators, such as azobisisovaleronitrile and azobisisobutyronitrile, may similarly be employed. The free radical initiators are preferably combined with the sulphite or bisulphite and incrementally added to the Nopol preparation of I or pinene preparation ofIII .Generally, from about 0.1 to about 10 mole , based on moles Nopol or pinene, of the free radical initiator is used in the reaction mixture. Additionally, ultraviolet radiation may serve to establish the free radical conditions, including when an ultraviolet photo initiator is added to the reaction mixture.Although water can be used as the exclusive solvent, mixed water organic co solvent systems are preferred.The organic co solvents should be non reactive in the process. Such solvents include alcohols, ethers, glycol ethers, esters, glycols, amines, amino alcohols and mixtures thereof. A combination of water with isopropanol or ethanol is preferred. Mixed aqueous organic co solvent systems may be combined in ratios ranging from 100 1 to 1 100. Preferably, the ratio of water to co solvent should range from about 1 4 to 1 1. Water is present to assist the solubilization of the sulphite or bisulphite salt. Organic co solvent is present for solubilizing the Nopol or pinene. The amount of solvent, either water, organic co solvent or mixtures thereof, relative to Nopol will range from 100 1 to 1 100, respectively. Reaction temperatures should range from at least 400C to about 3000 C. Preferably, the range should be from about 800C to 1500C.Relative molar ratios of sulphite or bisulphite toNopol or pinene can range broadly from about 2 1 to 0.8 1. Preferably, their relative amounts should range from about 0.95 to 1.4 1.In the case of the reaction with pinene, ammonium sulphite provides better yields than alkali metal sulphites or bisulphites. Ammonium bisulphite further im proves yields and permits reaction to occur at lower temperatures, i.e. 50 50 C. Aqueous 452 ammonium bisulphite solutions may be utilized at the commercially available pH of 5.0 5.2 or adjusted to pH 5.6 6.0 with ammonia. Upon completion of the reaction, solvent is removed. In the d pinene reaction, a crystalline monohydrate of the trans isomer of compound I is isolated.Some cis isomer is separated as a resinous dark yellow material. With ammonium bisulphite solutions of pH above 5.5, the trans isomer is formed in high specific purity. Trace amounts of cis isomer form at pH 5.0 5.3.The cis sulphonate behaves differently from the trans, the former being susceptible to auto oxidation.Ammonium bisulphite provides better yields than ammonium sulphite, i.e., 28 versus 91 yield. Aqueous 45 ammonium bisulphite solutions may be utilized at the commercially available pH of 5.0 5.2 or adjusted to pH 5.6 6.0 with ammonia. On completion of the reaction, solvent is removed. At pH above 5.5, ammonium bisulphite reacts stereospecifically with Nopol to form the trans isomer of III. Lowering the pH to 5.3 or below affords cis isomer in significant amounts. Cis isomer separates as a resinous dark yellow material The trans compound is crystalline. Furthermore, the cis isomer appears to be more susceptible to auto oxidation.Hydrogen peroxide rapidly attacks cis isomer while the trans form is unaffected.Compounds I, II and III can be converted to their saturated analogs IV, V and VI through hydrogenation. A variety of hydrogen methods and catalysts can be employed. Both soluble and heterogeneous catalysts are suitable. Among the heterogeneous variety are included platinum, palladium, rhodium, ruthenium, iridium and nickel, each metal being supported on suitable substrates to facilitate in the uptake of gaseous hydrogen. In the hydrogenation of compounds I and II, 5 palladium on charcoal is preferred. With this catalyst, hydrogen is preferably held at about 100 psi. Temperature is maintained around 80 C over a 1 5 hour period.In certain instances, to save expensive catalyst, it becomes advisable to remove sulphur poisons by pretreatment with Raney nickel. Pre treatment involves stirring I or II with Raney nickel in water at 45 50 C. Hydrogenation of III proceeds best at elevated pressures and temperatures. Raney nickel is the catalyst of choice. Temperatures in excess of 100 C and pressures of 500 psig hydrogen and above are preferred operating conditions.Ammonium and alkylolammonium salts of IV and V may be obtained by treatment of the corresponding hydrogenated sodium salt by passage through an ion exchange column and neutralization of the liberated sulphonic acid with the appropriate base e.g. ammonium hydroxide or alkylolamines such as ethanolamine, diethanolamine and triethanolamine .Sodium, potassium, alkaline earth metal and alkylolammonium salts of III and VI may be obtained by treatment of the corresponding ammonium salt by passage through an ion exchange column and neutralization of the liberated sulphonic acid with the appropriate base e.g. sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide and alkylolamines such as monoethanolamine, diethanolamine and triethanolamine .Sulphonates IV, V and VI have better storage stability than their unsaturated precursors. Upon prolonged storage, compounds I, II and III develop a yellow colour. Compounds I through VI are here shown to be effective hydrotropes for solubilizing only partially water soluble materials into aqueous systems. Hydrotropes are commercially important, in particular, as components in aqueous cleaning compositions. These compositions frequently contain surfactants such as anionic, non ionic cationic, zwitterionic or amphoteric actives or mixtures thereof. These surfactants are set forth in Surface Active Agents and Detergents by Schwartz, Perry Berch, Vol. II, Interscience Publishers, Inc., 1958, herein incorporated by reference. These surfac tants are generally employed at from 1 to 50 by weight of the total cleaning formulation. Stability Performance Evaluation A measure of the effectiveness of a hydrotrope is the amount required to stabilize a liquid composition undergoing freeze thaw cycling. The procedure for evaluating freeze thaw stability in volves subjecting a sample in a glass jar to six con trolled freeze thaw cycles between OOF and 70 F. Typically, inspection of samples is performed after each 1, 2, 3 and 6 cycles. Cycling time between OOF and 70 F is 24 hours, except over weekends when temperature is maintained at 700F for 48 hours. Six hours are ne cessary for the temperature in the room to drop from 70 F to OOF and 4 hours to rise from OOF to 700F. These cycles are thought to simulate the most extreme con ditions for storage and transportation of hydrotrope containing commercial products during winter months. The following examples will more fully illustrate the embogiments of this invention. All parts, percentages proportions referred to herein and in the appended claims are by weight unless otherwise indicated. EXAMPLE 1A typical light duty liquid dishwashing formulation is outlined in Table I. In this base formulation were incorporated the various hydrotropes of this invention. TABLE I Light Duty Liquid Detergent Base Composition Actives by Weight in FormulaComponents Formula A Formula BAmmonium linear C10 C15 alkylbenzene sulphonate 24 30Ammonium linear C12 C14 alcohol triethoxysulphate 5 5Lauric diethanolamide 3Hydrotrope Magnesium chloride 0.5Water to 100 to 100 Identity and amounts as per following Examples. TABLE II Heavy Duty Built Liquid Laundry Detergent Active byComponents Weight in FormulaSodium linear C10 C15 alkylbenzene sulphonate 17Sodium nitrilotriacetic acid 13 Hydrotrope Water to 100 Identity and amounts as per following Examples. EXAMPLE 2Unsaturated and saturated sulphonates III and VI were separately incorporated as a hydrotrope in the base aqueous liquid detergent formula A. Several concentration levels were evaluated. Results are recorded in Table III. Data therein indicate that 6 of either the unsaturated or saturated sulphonated Nopol is sufficient to provide freeze thaw stability toward formula A.Compounds III and VI are more efficient as hydrotropes than the reference, ammonium xylene sulphonate. TABLE IIIFreeze Thaw Stability of Sulphonated Nopol Derivatives Freeze ThawSample Concentration StabilityNumber Hydrotrope Weight 6 cycles at 0 70 F 1 Ammonium xylene sulphonate Control 8 Stable 2 Ammonium xylene sulphonate Control 6 Two Phases 3 Compound III 4 Two Phases 4 Compound III 6 Stable 5 Compound III 8 Stable 6 Compound VI 6 Stable 7 Compound VI 7 Stable 8 Compound VI 8 Stable 9 Compound VI 9 Stable Compounds III and VI evaluated as the ammonium salt. EXAMPLE 3Compounds I, II, IV and VI were evaluated for their ef ficiency as hydrotropes in freeze thaw stability tests.These compounds were incorporated in the base formulation A of Table I at several concentrations to determine the minimum amount of hydrotrope needed to provide adequate stability. Ammonium xylene sulphonate served as the reference hydrotrope. TABLE IV Freeze Thaw Stability Performance Concen Freese Thaw tration Stability 6Formulation Hydrotrope Weight cycles at 0 70 F 1 Control Ammonium xylene sulphonate 8 Stable 2 Sodium salt of I 8 Stable 3 Ammonium salt of I 8 Stable 4 Sodium salt of IV 8 10 15 gel 5 Ammonium salt of IV 8 20 gel 6 Ammonium salt of IV 12 12 gel 7 Sodium salt of II 8 10 gel on top 8 Ammonium salt of II 8 8 gel on top 9 Ammonium salt of II 9 10 gel on top 10 Ammonium salt of II 10 thin film of gel 11 Ammonium salt of II 12 Stable 12 Sodium salt of V 8 10 15 gel 13 Ammonium salt of V 8 15 gel 14 Ammonium salt of V 10 3 5 gel 15 Ammonium salt of V 12 StableTable IV indicates that compounds I, II, IV and V all display hydrotrope properties. They approach ammonium xylene sulphonate in performance.At the 12 level, compound II and its saturated analog V provided stable liquids under freeze thaw conditions. Compound I provided equivalent stability to that of the control at 8 active concentration. The saturated analog IV was less effective. EXAMPLE 4This example illustrates the freeze thaw stability of compounds III and VI incorporated in base formula B,Table I. Table V tabulates the hydrotrope performance.Ammonium xylene sulphonate in formula B is a more efficient hydrotrope than III. TABLE V Freeze Thaw Stability Performance of Unsaturated Sul phonated Nopol Concen Freese ThawSample tration Stability 6Number Hydrotrope Weight cycles at 0 70 F 1 Ammonium xylene sulphonate Control 9 Clear 2 Compound III 6 Two Phases 3 Compound III 7 Two Phases 4 Compound III 8 Two Phases 5 Compound III 9 Two Phases Compound III evaluated as the ammonium salt. EXAMPLE 5An illustration of hydrotropic performance of compoundIII ammonium salt in a built heavy duty liquid composition is herein provided. The data in Table VI indicate that III is a more efficient hydrotrope than sodium xylene sulphonate. It is also apparent that mixtures of sodium xylene sulphonate with III interact to provide unexpectedly superior results. The compositions evaluated were in accordance with the formula outlined in Table II. TABLE VISample Hydrotrope weight Physical Stability 1 Sodium xylene sulphonate 8 20 separated top 2 Sodium xylene sulphonate 10 15 separated top 3 Sodium xylene sulphonate 8 Clear with Compound III 1 schlieren 4 Sodium xylene sulphonate 8 Traces of Compound III 2 separated top 5 Compound III 6 Clear with schlieren 6 Compound III 8 Trace of separated bottom EXAMPLE 6Comparisons between compound III sodium salt and sodium xylene sulphonate in the formulation of Table VI are detailed in Table VII. Approximately 9 of III was required to achieve stability at room temperature.Sodium xylene sulphonate was required only at 6 to achieve stability at the same temperature. TABLE VII Stability 35 F Freeze Thaw Room Tem over tO 70 F Hydrotrope Weight perature night 6 cyclesSodium xylene sulphonate 6 Clear Two PhasesSodium xylene sulphonate 8 Clear Clear About 8 gel on topCompound III 8 Two Two Phases PhasesCompound III 9 Clear Two PhasesCompound III 10 Clear Clear Stable Clear EXAMPLE 7Preparation of Sodium 2S, 4R p menth 6 ene 2 sul phonate tI Method 1 In a 2 litre, 3 neck Morton flask equipped with a stirrer and reflux condenser, 136 g 1 mole i pinene and one litre isopropanol water in the ratio 1 1 were brought to reflux. Sodium bisulphite, 110 grams 1.06 mole was added at the rate of 26 grams per hour along with several additions of 2 3 drops t butyl peroxybenzoate.The solution was refluxed for 10 hours. Thereafter, the solution was evaporated to dryness and the residue extracted with hot 3A ethanol. Extraction was done three times with 500 ml solvent each time. The combined extracts were evaporated and the residual solids were then dried in vacuo over phosphorus pentoxide. A yield of 6 was obtained. The NMR spectrum exhibited the following peaks CH3 doublet, 0.75 and 0.866 CH3 singlet, 1.84 CH2 and CH multiplet, 1.00 2.40s CH multiplet, 3.23 3.50s and CH multiplet, 5.00 5.62 . Method 2 In a l litre, 3 neck Morton flask, 130 g of i pinene and 10 g of t benzyltrimethyl ammonium hydroxide were dissolved in 400 ml of 1 1 isopropanol water and brought to reflux. Sodium bisulphite, 120 g 1.15 mole was added at the rate of 10 grams per hour along with several additions of 2 3 drops of t butyl peroxybenzoate. The solution was heated for 14 hours. The solvents were then removed by distillation. The residue was extracted with 3A ethanol. Extracts were combined and evaporated to dryness. Residues were dried in vacuo over phosphorus pentoxide. Crude product in the amount of 130 grams was obtained. Karl Fisher analysis indicated the presence of 2.9 water. NMR indicated 588 purity. EXAMPLE 8 Preparation of Ammonium 2S, 4R p menth 6 ene 2 sulphonate I Ammonium Sulphite MethodIn a 3 litre flask equipped with stirrer, 136 g 1.0 mole i pinene was dissolved in 800 g isopropanol and 200 g water. The solution was brought to reflux. Ammonium sulphite monohydrate, 132 g 0.97 mole , was added at the rate of about 0.5 grams per minute. This solution was then refluxed for 15 hours. Thereafter, the solution was filtered, evaporated to dryness in vacuo and dried over phosphorus pentoxide. A product weighing 179 grams was obtained. NMR analysis indicated 81 purity 62t yield . Karl Fisher analysis showed 1.6 water present. EXAMPLE 9 Preparation of Ammonium 2S, 4R p menth 6 ene 2 sulphonate I Ammonium Bisulphite MethodIn a 500 ml flask equipped with a magnetic stirrer were placed 55 g i pinene, 100 ml isopropanol, 150 ml water and 2 g 60 benzyltrimethyl ammonium chloride.While stirring, 120 g 45 ammonium bisulphite was gradually added. The mixture was stirred for 24 hours at 40 45 C. Solvents were then removed by distillation in vacuo. The residue was dissolved in 300 ml isopropanol. The isopropanol solution was filtered and evaporated to dryness. A product weighing 93 grams was isolated. Its purity was 82.5 , corresponding to an 81 yield. EXAMPLE 10Preparation of Sodium 4S p menth l ene 7 sulphon ate 11 Experiment 1 A mixture of 140 g 1.03 moles j3 pinene and 650 ml water was heated to reflux in a 2 litre, 3 necked flask equipped with stirrer and reflux condenser. Then, 125 g 1.2 moles sodium bisulphite was added in 25 gram increments per hour along with several additions of 2 3 drops of t butyl peroxybenzoate. Heat was applied to the mixture for a period of 7.5 hours. The solution was allowed to stand overnight. Crystals which had formed were filtered off and dried in vacuo over phosphorus pentoxide. A total of 89 grams was collected, having 91 purity NMR analysis , indicating a 32 yield.TheNMR spectrum of the compound included signals at CH3 doublet, 0.75 and 0.856 CH and CH2 multiplets, 1.00 2.406 CH2 singlet, 3.406 and CH broad singlet, 5.80 5.908 . Experiment 2 In a l litre, 3 neck flask, 70 grams 0.51 mole 3 pinene and 325 ml water were heated to reflux. Sodium bisulphite, 70 grams, was added at the rate of 13 grams per hour. The solution was refluxed for 7 hours and allowed to stand overnight.Excess p pinene, 3.8 grams, was removed by distillation along with 100 ml of water. Upon cooling the solution, 106 grams 95 pure of product was crystallized. The solution was evaporated to dryness and residue extracted with 300 ml hot ethanol. Ethanol was removed by distillation and residual solvent evaporated in vacuo.The product remained as a residue of 6.7 grams weight and 21.2 purity. Total yield was 87 . EXAMPLE 11 Preparation of Ammonium 4S p menth l ene 7 sul phonate II Ammonium Sulphite MethodA solution of 136 g 1 mole pinene in 600 g isopropanol and 200 g water was heated to reflux in a 2litre, 3 neck Morton flask. Ammonium sulphite monohydrate, 132 g 0.99 mole , was added at the rate of about 0.5 grams per minute. The solution was refluxed for a total of 15 hours. Thereafter, the solution was filtered, the filtrate being evaporated to dryness.There was obtained 156 grams product having 72.1 purity 478 yield . The solid product was redissolved in 3A ethanol.Solvent insoluble residues were filtered off. Filtrate solvent was evaporated to dryness. Residue product was dried in vacuo over phosphorus pentoxide. A product was obtained having 74.8 purity by NMR analysis. KarlFisher titration indicated 1.5 water. EXAMPLE 12 Preparation of Ammonium 4S p menth l ene 7 sul phonate II Ammonium Bisulphite MethodIn a l litre flask equipped with magnetic stirrer were placed 450 ml isopropanol, 240 ml water and 54.4 grams 0.4 mole pinene. Ammonium bisulphite, 105 grams 45 0 , was then added thereto. The mixture was stirred at 40 450C for 22 hours. Thereafter, the solution was evaporated to dryness. Residue was extracted with methanol. The methanolic solution was filtered, and the resultant filtrate evaporated to dryness. Obtained were 84 grams product 85.88 purity 778 yield . EXAMPLE 13 Preparation of Sodium p menthane 2 sulphonate IV Sodium p menth 6 ene 2 sulphonate 51.2 g as prepared in Method 2 was dissolved in 500 ml water and mixed with 22.08 grams of Raney nickel catalyst at 45 50 C. Sulphur poisons were removed by this pre treatment.After 2 hours, the mixture was filtered and transferred to a l litre Parr bomb. Twelve grams of 5 palladium on carbon were added to the mixture. The bomb was sealed and flushed several times with hydrogen. Hydrogenation was performed at 75 80 C for 3 4 hours at 100 psi.Thereafter, the bomb was cooled, opened and the solution filtered. Filtrate was evapoAr ed to dryness and the residue stored over phosphorus pentoxide. The product, weighing 42.4 grams, was 95.4 pure by NMR abalysis. The NMR spectrum exhibited signals at CH3 doublet, 1.04 and 1.126 CH2 and CH multiplet, 1.20 2.508 , CH3 multiplet, 1.606 and CH multiplet, 3.00 3.206 . EXAMPLE 14 Preparation of Ammonium p menthane 2 sulphonate IV Sodium p menthane 2 sulphonate, 35 grams, prepared as in Example 13, was passed through an ion exchange column. The eluate containing p menthane 2 sulphonic acid was neutralized with dilute ammonium hydroxide.The solution was evaporated to dryness and the residue stored in vacuo over phosphorus pentoxide. The product was 91.7 pure by NMR analysis. EXAMPLE 15 Preparation of Sodium 4S p menthane 7 sulphonate V Sodium 4S p menth l ene 7 sulphonate, 75 grams, was dissolved in 500 ml of water. The solution was then placed in a l litre Parr Reactor together with 12 grams 5 palladium on carbon. The Parr Reactor was sealed and flushed with hydrogen gas several times to remove oxygen. Hydrogen was charged to the bomb at 100 psi and the contents heated to 75 80 C for 2 hours. Subsequently, the bomb was cooled, opened and the solution filtered to remove catalyst. Solvent was evaporated from the solution and the residue dried in vacuo over phosphorus. Seventy grams of product with NMR purity of 99.3 was obtained. The NMR spectrum exhibited signals at CH3 doublet, 1.00 and 1.146 CH and CH2 multiplet, 1.00 1.306 and CH2 triplet, centred at 3.076 . EXAMPLE 16Preparation of Ammonium 4S p menthane 7 sulphonate V An aqueous solution of 30 grams sodium 4S p menthane7 sulphonate, prepared according to Example 15, was passed through a Permutit Q101 cationic exchange column to remove sodium ions. The eluate containing 4S pmenthane 7 sulphonic acid was neutralized with ammonium hydroxide solution. The resultant residue was dried over phosphorus pentoxide. Obtained were 29 grams product of 99.9 purity. EXAMPLE 17 Preparation of Ammonium p menth 6 ene 7 methylol 2 trans sulphonate III Ammonium Sulphite MethodIn a 2 litre, 3 neck flask equipped with stirrer and reflux were placed 600 grams isopropanol, 200 grams water and 166 grams 1 mole Nopol. To the refluxing mixture were added 134 grams aqueous ammonium sulphite 1 mole at the rate of 13.4 grams per hour. The solution was refluxed for a total of 14 hours. Then it was evaporated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in isopropanol, filtered and the resulting filtrate evaporated to dryness. A product weighing 102 grams 74 active was obtained in 28 yield. EXAMPLE 18 Preparation of Ammonium p menth 6 ene 7 methylol 2 trans sulphonate III Ammonium Bisulphite Method 1In a 500 ml flask, equipped with a magnetic stirrer, were placed 66.4 grams 0.4 mole Nopol, 100 ml ethanol and 100 ml water. To the stirred mixture was added 110 grams 45 ammonium bisulphite solution adjusted with ammonia to pH 5.6 to 6.0. The mixture was stirred at 40 45 C for 24 hours.Solvents were distilled off and the residue extracted with 300 ml ether. About one gram of Nopol was recovered. The residue was then dissolved in 300 ml isopropanol. Insoluble materials weighing 7.5 grams were removed by filtration. Isopropanol was removed by vacuum distillation, leaving a residue which was further dried over phosphorus pentoxide. A product weighing 109 grams 88.5 active was obtained in 91 yield. Ammonium Bisulphite Method 2In a litre flask equipped with magnetic stirrer were placed 420 ml isopropanol, 240 ml water and 66 grams 0.4 mole Nopol. While the solution was being stirred, 105 grams 45 ammonium bisulphite solution pH 5.66.0 was added. The solution was stirred for 24 hours.Solvents were evaporated in vacuo and residue dissolved in methanol. The methanol solution was filtered to remove inorganics. Filtrate was evaporated to give 102 grams residue. The residue was dissolved in hot isopropanol. Recrystallization gave 94 grams 99.28 purity of a crystalline product, indicating a yield of 88.7 . The NMR analysis exhibited the following spectrum CH3 doublet, 0.75 0.90, coupling constant 6 Hz CH2 multiplet, 1.20 2.706 CH multiplet, 1.20 2.70 CH multiplet, 3.45 3.75 CH2 multiplet centred at 3.736 and CH multiplet, 5.72 6.006 . Ammonium Bisuiphite Method 3In a l litre, 3 neck Morton flask were placed 99.5 grams 0.6 mole Nopol, 125 ml ethanol and 50 ml water.The solution was de aerated with nitrogen gas, using a gas dispersion tube. The solution was heated to 70 C with vigorous agitation.In an addition funnel were combined at 100 C, 110 grams 0.5 mole 45 ammonium bisulphite solution and 17.6 grams concentrated ammonia. This solution was brought to room temperature and added slowly to the contents of the Morton flask with concurrent addition of 1.38 grams 8.4 mmol azobisisovaleronitrile in 25 ml aqueous ethanol. Addition was complete in 45 minutes. Thereafter, the mixture was stirred a further 6.5 hours at 700C.The above solution was steam distilled to remove Nopol.Thereafter, the remaining aqueous solution was evaporated to dryness, leaving behind the product. This material weighed 124.8 grams 70 purity , corresponding to a 66 yield. EXAMPLE 19Preparation of Ammonium p menth 6 ene 7 methylol 2 cis sulphonate III In a litre flask equipped with a magnetic stirrer were placed 150 ml ethanol and 83 grams Nopol 0.5 mole . To this solution was added 156 grams 458 0.7 mole ammonium bisulphite having pH 5.0 5.1. The mixture was stirred at 400C for 24 hours.Ammonium hydroxide, 16 grams, was added to the reactor, bringing the pH to 6.8 7.0. Ethanol was distilled and the aqueous solution extracted three times with 200 ml chloroform. The aqueous solution was evaporated to a heavy syrup. Methanol, 350 ml, was added. The solution was allowed to stand for 30 minutes and filtered to remove inorganics. Methanol was evaporated from the solution, affording a syrup that was dried over phos phorus pentoxide. A product weighing 134 grams was obtained. Unreacted Nopol, 18 grams, was recovered from the chloroform solution. The product was stored under nitrogen to prevent oxidation. NMR analysis indicated product purity of 72.6 57.3 yield .The NMR spectrum of the product was as follows CH3 doublet, 0.80 0.92 coupling constant 2.1 Hz CH2 multiplet, 1.2 2.606 CH multiplet, 1.20 2.608 CH multiplet, 3.45 3.706 CH2 multiplet centred at 3.45 3.75s and CH multiplet, 5.65 5.90s . EXAMPLE 20 Preparation of Ammonium p menthane 7 methylol 2 sulphonate VI Seventy grams of ammonium p menth 6 ene 7 methylol2 sulphonate prepared as in Example 18 Method 2 was stored overnight at 45 50 C over 500 ml water containing 50 grams Raney nickel catalyst. The mixture was transferred to a one litre Parr bomb. Raney nickel, 12 grams, was added to the mixture. The bomb was sealed and flushed several times with hydrogen. Hydrogenation was performed at 1250C under 500 psig of hydrogen for a period of 4 hours. The mixture was removed from the bomb, filtered free of catalyst and allowed to stand. A very small amount of light brown solid, which crystallized out, was filtered before evaporating the filtrate to dryness. A total of 65 grams 100 purity was obtained. The NMR spectrum consisted of CH3 doublet, 0.80 1.00 CH2 multiplet, 1.00 2.30 CH multiplet, 1.00 2.306 , CH multiplet, 2.94 3.206 and CH2 triplet centred at 3.578 .