# PRIORITY ARRANGEMENT USED IN A TELECOMMUNICATION SWITCHING SYSTEM

## Claims
Prioritätsanordnung CLHB für eine Vielzahl von Teilnehmerschaltungen DPTC 31, welche durch eine Verbindung CLB miteinander verbunden sind, wobei diese Prioritätsanordnung CLHB so angepaßt ist, daß sie den besagten Teilnehmerschaltungen Priorität gewährt, um auf eine gemeinsame Einrichtung CH16PR, TOUTB in einer vorbestimmten Reihenfolge zuzugreifen, wobei jede Teilnehmerschaltung eine Hinweisadresse PNTB und Mittel zum Inkrementieren des Wertes dieser Hinweisadresse beinhaltet und jede Teilnehmerschaltung, deren Hinweisadresse eine vorbestimmte Position erreicht hat, die Priorität hat. Daten zu der gemeinsamen Einrichtung zu senden,

## Description
The present invention relates to a priority arrangement for a plurality of user circuits which are interconnected by a link, said priority arrangement being adapted to grant priority to said user circuits, for accessing a common facility, in a predetermined order, each user circuit including a pointer and means to increment the value of said pointer, each user circuit of which the pointer has reached a predetermined position having priority to transmit data to said common facility, Such a priority arrangement is already known from the US patent No 4 017 841. Therein the link constitutes the common facility and each user circuit having priority to transmit data, due to its pointer having reached a predetermined position, issues a count signal when no data has to be transmitted or after data has been transmitted, this count signal being applied to all pointers via the link. This means that especially when the number of user circuits is high a correspondingly high number of such count signals has to be transmitted over the link, and even when no data has to be transmitted by these circuits. This transmission requires time and therefore adversely affects the operation speed of the arrangement. An object of the present invention is to provide a prior arrangement of the above type, but having a higher operation speed. According to the invention this object is achieved due to the fact that in each of said user circuits the incrementing means increment the pointer during each time channel of said link which is a time division multiplex link and is different from said common facility, and that each user circuit to which priority has been granted in a time channel and which has data to be transmitted issues in this time channel a grant priority signal temporarily, e.g. during a time frame, preventing the other user circuits from stepping their pointers. Thus, the various pointers are operated not only in a rapid way at the rhythm of the time channels but also independently, i.e. without signals having to be transmitted on the link. Only when a user circuit having both priority and data to be transmitted is such a signal transmitted over the link in order to temporarily prevent the pointers of the other user circuits from being stepped. The above mentioned and other objects and features of the invention will become more apparent and the invention itself will be best understood by referring to the following description of an embodiment taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which The telecommunication switching system shown in Fig. 1 includes a switching network SNW which is coupled via connections X and Y with two terminal control elements TCEA and TCEB which are each coupled to each of 32 control circuits DPTC 31 via four links TINA B, TOUTA B, C4096A B and FA B. Each of these control circuits DPTC 31 is connected to an associated transcoder and filter circuit TCF 31 via two links LIN 31 and LOUT 31. Each associated pair of a DPTC 31 and a TCF 31 is common to 16 line or terminal circuits each comprising the cascade connection of a DPTC 31, a TCF 31, a digital signal processor DSP 511 and a subscriber line interface circuit SLIC 511 coupled to a telecommunication line TL 511. More particularly, DPTC and TCF which are interconnected by LIN and LOUT are common to 16 line circuits as indicated by the multipling arrows further including DSP 15 and SLIC 15 which are coupled to telecommunication lines TL 15 respectively. Likewise, DPTC31 and TCF31 which are interconnected by LIN31 and LOUT31 are common to 16 line circuits including DSP496 511 and SLIC496 511 which are coupled to telecommunication lines TL496 511 respectively. Each DPTC 31 is also connected to the associated 16 digital signal processors via a set of three links COV 31, COD 31 and CIN 31. More particularly, DPTC is connected to DSP 15 via COV , COD and CIN and DPTC31 is connected to DSP496 511 through COV31, COD31 and CIN31. Each of the control circuits DPTC to DPTC31 has four identity terminals S 4 S to S314 S310 and is further connected to a voltage supply terminal VCC 5 Volts via two resistors R A, R B to R31A, R31B. These are connected to conductors CLA and CLB interconnecting all DPTC to DPTC31. The above transcoder and filter circuits TCF 31 are of the type disclosed in Belgian patents Nos 897 771 D. RABAEY et al 1 1 and 897 773 D. RABAEY et al 2 2 . The SLIC 511 are of the type disclosed in Belgian patents Nos 898 049 L. BIENSTMAN et al 3 1 , 898 050 L. BIENSTMAN et al 4 1 , 898 051 L. BIENSTMAN et al 5 1 , and 898 052 L. BIENSTMAN et al 6 1 . TINA B and TOUTA B which have access to each of DPTC to DPTC31 are links which are each used on a time division multiplex or TDM basis comprising frames of 32 TCE channels CH 31. These frames are delimited by frame pulses FA B transmitted from TCEA B to DPTC 31 on frame conductors FA B. Each channel comprises 16 time slots TS 15 defined by 4,096 MHz clock pulses C4096A B transmitted from TCEA B to DPTC 31 on clock conductors C4096A B. Channels and 16 are used for synchronization and control purposes respectively, whilst the other ones are normally used to convey speech. As shown in the timing diagram of Fig. 2 for TINA, TOUTA, C4096A and FA, each of the channels CH 31 is used to transmit bits , ..., 9, A, ..., F so that the bit rate is 4096 Mbit sec. To be noted that there is a difference of 18 mod 32 or 14 between the numbers of time coincident TINA and TOUTA channels, e.g. between TINA channel and TOUTA channel 14, and that the TCE channels of TINA, TOUTA are asynchronous in phase with those of TINB, TOUTB because TCEA and TCEB operate independently from each other. LIN 31 and LOUT 31 are links which are also each used on a TDM basis comprising frames of 32 channels CH 31, the frames being delimited by locally generated frame pulses FL. Each channel comprises 16 time slots defined by locally generated 4096 MHz clock pulses C4096L. As shown in the timing diagram of Fig. 2 for LIN and LOUT , each of the channels thereof is used to transmit 8 bits to 7 so that the bit rate is equal to 2,048 Mbit sec. Because each pair of LIN LOUT conductors is used for 32 channels and has access to 16 telecommunication lines two such channels are permanently allocated to one telecommunication line. For instance LOUT LIN channels N and N 16 are permanently allocated to line N. COV 31 and COD 31 are conductors which are each used on a TDM basis to transmit 7 bytes BYTES 6 of drive bits 7 and one byte BYTE7 of scan bits 7 per line from the corresponding DPTC 31 to the associated DSP 511 at a rate of 4096 Mbit sec as shown on Fig. 2 for COV , COD and lines TL 15. CIN 31 are conductors which are each used on a TDM basis comprising frames of 16 channels to transmit one byte BYTE7 of scan bits 7 from the corresponding telecommunication line TL 511 to the associated DPTC 31 at a rate of 1024 Mbit sec, as shown on Fig. 2 for CIN and TL 15. CLA and CLB are conductors which are each used on a TDM basis comprising frames of 32 channels allocated in a variable way to respective ones of the 32 control circuits DPTC 31 and each comprising 16 time slots. The time slots of CLA and CLB coincide with those of the channels of TINA TOUTA and TINB TOUTB respectively. Reference is now made to Figs. 3 to 5 which when arranged as shown in Fig. 6 represent a block diagram of control circuit DPTC of Fig. 1. This DPTC includes the following circuits The above mentioned links TINA, TOUTA, TINB, TOUTB, LIN and LOUT Fig. 3 are connected to SIPOA, PISOA, SIPOB, PISOB, SIPOL and PISOL respectively, the latter circuits having moreover read or write inputs RPA, WPA, RPB, WPB, RSIPOL and WPISOL respectively. SIPOA which is able to store a 16 bit word TIA15 received on the bus DF D moreover has outputs TIA3 connected to the priority circuit CLHA. Likewise, SIPOB which is able to store a 16 bit word TIB15 has outputs TIB3 connected to CLHB. Decoder circuit DECA associated to SIPOA has outputs SOPA and SOPSCANA connected to CLHA and temporary latch circuit TLA has read and write inputs RTA and WTA. Likewise, DECB has outputs SOPB and SOPSCANB connected to CLHB and temporary latch circuit TLB has read and write inputs RTB and WTB. The read and write signals RPISOL, WPISOL, RTA, RTB, WTA, WTB are provided by the time slot allocation circuit TSALL, whilst RPA and RPB are generated by the decoder circuits DLA and DLB associated to the counters AMC and BMC respectively. The above mentioned conductors C4096A, FA, C4096B and FB Fig. 5 are connected to the control circuit CLC Fig.5 which provides at its outputs the following signals The clock pulses C4A , .... having the same frequency as C4096A and the frame pulses FA control 9 bit counter AMC Fig. 3 which provides at its outputs 9 bits AMC8 of which The 9 bit counter BMC Fig. 3 and the associated decoder circuit DLB are controlled by clock pulses C4B , ... and operate in a similar way as AMC and DLA and provide output signals BMC8 and RPB controlling CHAC, TSALL and SIPOB. Counter DMC Fig. 3 is a 9 bit counter which is controlled by the clock pulses C4 , ... having the same frequency as C4096L and provides at its outputs 9 bits DMC8 of which The outputs DMC8 of DMC control SBA Fig. 5 and DMCL the outputs DMC8 4 control the CHAC the outputs DMC3 control TSALL and the outputs DMC8 3 control MUX3 Fig. 5 . From the above it follows that the address computation circuit CHAC is controlled by the counter outputs AMC8 4, BMC8 4 and DMC8 4. CHAC provides at its outputs CHC4 an output value CHC4 which is supplied to the control memory CAM, to FFS as well as to the channel 16 decoder circuit CH16DEC. CHC3 is supplied to MUX3. The CHAC includes a substractor circuit not shown and is able to compute the difference of DMC8 4 and AMC8 4 or BMC8 4 as well as the difference of AMC8 4 or BMC8 4 and either 1 or 17. The CHAC also includes a latch circuit not shown to latch the output signal of the subtractor circuit as a channel address for the CAM or for FFS. In connection with the above it should be noted that the number m of a TCE channel AMC8 4 or BMC8 4 stored in AMC or BMC is the number of the channel for which the data are being received from TINA or TINB so that m 1 is the channel number for which the data are already stored in TLA or TLB. When data to be transmitted to a line circuit are being received from TINA or TINB in TCE channel m, data coming from this line circuit should be transmitted to TCEA B on TCE channel m 18 of TOUTA or TOUTB, as will be explained later. At that moment the number of the TCE channel number stored in AMC or BMC is equal to m 17. For these reasons CHAC has been designed to calculate m 1 and m 17 from the value of the channel number AMC8 4 or BMC8 4 stored in AMC or BMC respectively. The time slot allocation circuit TSALL generates the following output signals The DRAM stores the above mentioned 8 bytes per line i.e. 7 drive bytes BYTES 6 and 1 scan byte BYTE7. The logic circuit DMCL is controlled by the output signals DMC8 of DMC, by the clock signals C4 , C4 of CLC and by the selection bit A B. This bit indicates for which side the channel 16 processor CH16PR works or has to work i.e. for the A side TCEA or B side TCEB , as explained in the above mentioned copending Belgian patent application. The DMCL generates the following output signals The above mentioned input conductor CIN is connected to an input of CINSIPO and outputs of COVPISO and CODPISO are connected to the above mentioned output conductors COV and COD respectively. The outputs of OLDCINPISO and CINSIPO are connected to scan byte analyzer circuit SBA which is further controlled by C1 , C1 generated by DMCL, by the outputs DMC8 of DMC, by FFFA and FFFB of FIFOAC and FIFOBC and by ASS, ACT and MMIE provided by CAM. FFFA and FFFB indicate that FIFOA and FIFOB are full respectively and ASS, ACT and MMIE are an assignment bit, an activity bit and bit for enabling or disabling a mismatch reporting respectively. These bits which are stored in the CAM define the status of a line. The purpose of the scan byte analyzer SBA is to derive mismatch information from the contents of OLDCINPISO and CINSIPO and to write mismatch data into FIFOA and or FIFOB. To this end it provides output write signals WFIFOA and WFIFOB which control the associated control circuits FIFOAC and FIFOBC and a read status signal RSTATUS which is supplied to the channel 16 address processor CH16PR in order that the latter should apply a WCAM signal the decoder DEC of the CAM. RSTATUS is also supplied to the select input of multiplexer circuit MUX4 to which DMC8 5 and CC3 are applied. The output signal of MUX4 is supplied to the input of the same decoder DEC. FIFOAC and FIFOBC generate control output signals FFFA, FFFB and FFEA, FFEB which indicate that the associated FIFOA or FIFOB is full or empty respectively. The channel 16 processor CH16PR is able to supply read signals RFIFOA and RFIFOB to FIFOAC and FIFOBC respectively. To be noted that because DMLC is controlled by the 1024 MHz clock signals C1 , C1 , the 9 bits DMC8 received from DMCL have the following meaning in SBA The priority circuit CLHA is controlled by the above identity inputs S 4 , by bits TIA3 provided by SIPOA, by the signals SOPA and SOPSCANA of DECA, by the signals AMC3 of AMC, by output signal CH17A of DLA and by output signal FFEA of FIFOAC. Its output CLA is connected to the common conductor CLA of Fig. 1 and its outputs MYTURNA and EOPSCANA are connected to multiplexer MUX2 Fig. 4 associated to CH16PR and controlled by the selection signal A B. The priority circuit CLHB is identical to CLHA and is connected in a similar way. The purpose of CLHA is to determine if DPTC has priority in a first priority chain over the other DPTC1 31 to transmit to TCEA mismatch information stored in FIFOA. In this case output MYTURNA is activated. When the mismatch information of all DPTC 31 has been transmitted to TCEA then an output signal EOPSCANA is generated. The purpose of CLHB is similar to that of CLHA but now in a second priority chain. The control memory CAM includes for each of the 16 lines TL 15, say N, a row of storage cells for storing the most significant bit MSBL of the LOUT LIN line channel number N or N 16 associated to this line and a TINA B channel number assigned to this line by TCEA or TCEB and further, an activity bit ACT, an assignment bit ASS and a MMIE bit, already mentioned above. A line is unassigned or assigned to TCEA or TCEB according to the following code The MMIE bit is an enable bit to indicate that mismatch information of the corresponding line should be reported to TCEA or and TCEB or not. The decoder DEC associated to CAM permits to read one of the rows of the CAM under the control of R WCAM and of an output address LI3 of MUX4, this address being CC3 when RSTATUS 1. In this way for instance the status bits ASS, ACT and MMIE are generated at the like named outputs of the CAM and applied to the scan byte analyzer SBA. The data memory DMEM associated to the CAM and is able to store data for 16 lines TL 15. The purpose of the above mentioned channel 16 decoder CH16DEC Fig. 3 is to detect if the output CHC4 of the CHAC indicates a channel 16 or not. In this case the CH16DEC provides output signals R16A, W16A, R16B, W16B which control instruction registers IRA and IRB respectively. These registers are also controlled by the read and write signals R8A, W8A, and R8B, W8B provided by CH16PR and used to read data from IRA or IRB and place them on the 8 bit bus BB7 and to write data in the IRA or IRB from this bus. IRA and IRB each have a 16 bit output and both 16 bit outputs are connected to multiplexer MUX1 the select input of which is controlled by the selection signal A B provided by CH16PR. The 16 bit output IRF of MUX1 is connected to the main decoder CH16MDEC. The 5 output signals IR8 4 of MUX1 which define the identity of a DPTC in a Terminal or Line Select instruction TS received from TCEA or TCEB are also supplied to a DPTC selection circuit DPTCSEL. This circuit is also connected to the above mentioned terminals S 4 defining the identity of DPTC and the input signals TS, EOP and A B are also applied to its TS and EOP being provided by CH16MDEC. When such an instruction TS is received the input TS of DPTCSEL is activated so as to enable the operation of this circuit and when the identity received from TCEA or TCEB is equal to the identity of DPTC , the latter is selected. Accordingly the output SEL of the circuit DPTCSEL is activated and this fact is communicated to CH16PR. EOP is used to reset DPTCSEL. Such a reset also occurs in case of the receipt of a new TS instruction or when the compared identities are different. The purpose of CH16MDEC is to decode the various instructions received under the form of packets on the 16 bit bus IRF and to generate and latch the following output signals amongst many others The last mentioned output signals SOP, EOP, SOPSCAN, TS, BYTE1, R W and ACT are supplied to CH16PR together with SEL, the RSTATUS signal and the output signals EOPSCAN and MYTURN of MUX2. CH16PR provides the following output signals RFIFOA, RFIFOB, RBA, WBA, RFA, WFA, FFW, RBB, WBB, WSP8C4 , RSP8C4 , WSP8C4 , RSP8C4 , R WCAM, STARTFFS and MSBLVALC4 . RFIFOA and RFIFOB are supplied to FIFOAC and FIFOBC respectively RSA, WBA and RBB, WBB are supplied to IRA and IRB respectively R WCAM is supplied to CAM STARTFFS, MSBLVALC4 , WFA, RFA and FFW are supplied to FFS WSP8C4 , RSP8C4 are applied to SP8 and CAMS and WSP8C4 and RSP8C4 are supplied to SP8. The line channel assignment circuit FFS is adapted, after a TINA B channel has been allocated to a line, say N, to search a suitable line channel among the two LOUT line channels N and N 16 which are permanently associated to this line. To be noted that for LIN the same channel is used as for LOUT . FFS is controlled by CHC4 which is provided by CHAC, by CC3 provided by CH16MDEC, by L A and L B supplied by TSALL, and by A B, WFA, RFA, FFW and STARTFFS generated by CH16PR. The output signal MSBL of FFS in or 1 depending on the selected LOUT LIN line channel being N or N 16 and is used to set the corresponding bit MSBL in the CAM in the row thereof which is permanently associated to the line. It should be noted that TCEA and TCEB are of the type described in the article ITT 1240 Digital Exchange Hardware Description , published in Electrical Communication, Vol. 56, N 2 3, 1981, pp. 135 147. Principally referring to Figs. 3 to 5 and to the flow chart of Fig. 8, the operation of DPTC is briefly described hereinafter. The 16 DSP 15 associated to DPTC continuously transmit bytes of scan data of the lines TL 15 to DPTC via the link CIN . The latter is used on a TDM basis with frames of 16 channels, and with a bit rate of 1024 Mbit sec. This continuous bitstream is supplied to CINSIPO Fig. 5 and each time a new scan byte for a line is entered therein the logic circuit DMCL generates read and write signals RCINOLD and WCINOLD and applies via MUX3 the line and scan byte BYTE7 address DMC8 3 to the DRAM. As a result and under the control of RCINOLD the previous or old scan byte of the line concerned is read from the DRAM and supplied to the 8 bit bus BB7 and then written in the OLDCINPISO under the control of WCINOLD. Corresponding bits of the new and old scan bytes are compared in the scan byte analyzer circuit SBA which moreover issues a read status signal RSTATUS to obtain the values of the status bits ACT, ASS and MMIE for the line concerned . More particularly, the signal RSTATUS applied to the selection input of the multiplexer circuit MUX4 selects the line identity DMC8 5 and applies it to the decoder input of the CAM. The signal RSTATUS is also conveyed to the channel 16 processor CH16PR as a result of which the latter issues a signal R WCAM which is also applied to the decoder input of the CAM. As a result the row of the CAM corresponding to the line concerned is read out and the bits ACT, ASS and MMIE thereof are applied to SBA. SBA can thus decide what has to be done with the compared data. It is supposed that ACT , ASS O and MMIE 1, meaning that the line has not yet been assigned to TCEA or TCEB and that MMI data for this line should be reported to TCEA and TCEB. For this reason, each time a mismatch is detected between two compared bits of CINSIPO and OLDCINPISO the following mismatch information byte is written in both FIFOA and FIFOB by FIFOAC and FIFOBC under the control of WFIFOA and WFIFOB generated by SBA After at least one mismatch information byte has thus been written into FIFOA and FIFOB the outputs FFEA and FFEB of FIFOAC and FIFOBC become de activated to indicate that these registers are not empty. By means of these signals FFEA and FFEB the priority circuits CLHA and CLHB are informed that in DPTC MMI data has to be transmitted to TCEA and TCEB respectively. After all the 8 bits of a scan byte have thus been analyzed, DMCL issues read and write signals RCIN and WCIN under the control of which the contents of CINSIPO are first transferred to the 8 bit bus BB7 and then written in the DRAM at the line and byte address DMC8 3 provided by DMCL via MUX3. As already mentioned above, the priority circuit CLHA of DPTC is connected to a common line CLA to which all the other DPTC1 31 are coupled. The various CLHA are connected in a priority chain which is such that a distinct but variable channel among the 32 CLA channels which run synchronously with the TINA channels is assigned to each CLHA. During this channel time the CLHA may ground the common line CLA when MMI data are present in FIFOA as indicated by FFEA 0 . In this way DPTC informs the other DPTC1 31 about the fact that it has priority to send MMI data to TCEA in channel 16 of TOUTA. In this case also the output signal MYTURNA of CLHA is activated and communicated to CH16PR in order that the latter should indeed transmit the MMI information to TCEA. The same is true for CLHB which forms part of another priority chain so that DPTC may also have priority in this chain, now however, to transmit MMI data to TCEB. In this case the output signal MYTURNB of CLHB is activated and CH16PR is informed. Both the signals MYTURNA and MYTURNB are indeed supplied to multiplexer MUX2 which is associated to CH16PR. It is supposed that TCEB sends the instruction start of packet SOP and start of scan SOPSCAN. These instructions are therefore called SOPB and SOPSCANB. The instruction SOPB is received in SIPOB of each DPTC 31 and then loaded into IRB and decoded in CH16MDEC due to which the output SOP is activated. As a consequence the channel 16 processor CH16PR which was previously in the wait position A is brought in the position B where it waits for another instruction, as follows from the flow chart of Fig. 8. The following instruction 8 SOPSCAN is also received in SIPOB of each of the DPTC 31 and then loaded in IRB and decoded in CH16MDEC. Due to this the output SOPSCAN is activated and CH16PR is brought in the position C wherein it will then later check if there is a MYTURN signal. The processor then selects for instance signal MYTURNB by means of the selection signal A B so that the output MYTURN of MUX2 is activated and activates the FIFO read signal RFIFOB. By means of this signal one MMI byte e.g. relating to line TL , of FIFOB is read and applied to the 8 bit bus BB7 . Under the control of write signal WBA this MMI byte is written in IRB from this 8 bit bus. Afterwards these data together with a code and the identity of DBTC are transferred in a TOUTB channel 16 to TCEB via PISOB. This happens under the control of read and write signals provided by CH16DEC. All the MMI bytes stored in FIFOB are thus transferred to DPTC in TOUTB channel 16 and CH16PR is each time brought in wait position C Fig. 18 . When CLHB detects that none of all the DFTC 31 have MMI data to be sent to TCEB, it activates its output EOPSCANB which is connected to MUX2. When CH16PR detects the presence of this signal it transmits a signal EOP and returns to position A to TCEB. Because TCEB receives the MMI data concerning line TL it is decided therein to supervise this line TL and to allocate a TCE channel to this line, e.g. CH31. For this reason TCEB sends the following three instructions successively to all DPTC 31 in successive channels 16 of TINB The instruction SOP is received in SIPOB of each DPTC 31 and then loaded into IRB and decoded in CH16MDEC due to which the output SOP is activated. As a consequence the channel 16 processor CH16PR which was previously in the wait position A is brought in the position B where it waits for another instruction, as follows from the flow chart of Fig. 8. The following instruction TS is also received in SIPOB of each of the DPTC 31 and then loaded in IRB and decoded in CH16MDEC. The selection signal A B generated by CH16PR is supposed to be indicating that the B side TCEB has been selected. Under the control of this signal the latter decoder provides an activated TS signal at its like named terminal and latches the line address CC3 of TL contained in the instruction. Thus TL has been selected. The processor then returns to the wait position B. The output signal TS of CH16MDEC is applied to DPTCSEL to activate the latter and in this selector the identity CC of DPTC contained in the instruction TS is compared with the identity of DPTC 31 continuously applied to DPTCSEL. Therefore only DPTCSEL of DPTC generates a terminal or line select signal SEL which is applied to CH16PR. The next instruction TW is also received in SIPOB of each of the DPTC 31, then loaded in IRB and decoded in CH16MDEC. But because only in DPTC the output SEL of CH16MDEC is activated, only therein the outputs TS, R W, ACT and BYTE 1 of this decoder are checked. These outputs are all activated. As shown in the flow chart the processor checks The purpose of FFS is to calculate which one of the two LOUT line channel numbers or 16 which are permanently allocated to the line TL will effectively be assigned to this line and hence to TINB channel CH31. The line channel assignment circuit FFS operates as follows It is supposed that LOUT channel CH16 has been selected. The identity of this channel differs from that of line TL by the fact that it has an additional most significant bit MSBL which is equal to 1. This bit MSBL is written in the CAM on the row allocated to line TL i.e. on row . To the line TL also LIN channel CH16 is assigned and because TINB channel CH13 has been assigned to this same line the TOUTB channel CH 31 14 mod 32 CH13 is assigned to the line. Once the TINB, TOUTB, LIN and LOUT channels have been assigned to line TL the transfer of data, e.g. speech, between TCEB and TL via DPTC occurs as follows For the last described transmission procedure it is necessary to provide a time interval equal to 18 channel times between the TOUT channel and the TIN channel assigned to a same line. Indeed, because any TIN channel should be able to be assigned to any of the 16 LOUT channels among the 32 which most closely follow the TIN channel the time interval between this TIN channel and the TOUT channel should at least be equal to 16. Two additional channel times are moreover required because of the phase shifts between the TIN and TOUT channels. This gives a total of 18 channel times. From the above it follows that the present system has the following characteristics In the following more details are given about the circuits SBA, DMCL, OLDCINPISO, CINSIPO Figs. 9 to 11 CAM, CAMS, FFS Figs. 12 to 16 and CLHB Figs. 17 to 2 and on their operation. The registers OLDCINPISO and CINSIPO are shown in the upper part of Fig. 9 together with an additional latch circuit LCC forming part of SBA. Fig. 9 also represents part of DMCL generating the read and write signals RCIN, WCIN, RCINOLD and WCINOLD and Fig. 10 shows the part of SBA which generates the signals RSTATUS, WFIFOA and WFIFOB. The inputs of the cells of the register OLDCINPISO are coupled to the 8 bit bus BB7 and these cells are controlled by the clock pulses C1 , C1 Fig. 11 and by the write signal WCINOLD. The outputs of the cells of CINSIPO are also coupled to BB7 and these cells are controlled by the clock pulses C1 , C1 and by the read signal RCIN. The outputs 01 and 02 of OLDCINPISO and CINSIPO are connected to an Exclusive OR circuit EXOR having output MMIB which is connected to gating circuit GC4 Fig. 10 . The output O2 is moreover connected to an input of cell LC3 of the latch circuit LCC comprising cells LC7 whose outputs are connected to a write bus WF7 for FIFOA and FIFOB. These latch cells have a common read input R which is constituted by the output of a NAND gate NAND1 comprising the series connection between VCC 5 Volts and ground of PMOS transistor PM 1 and NMOS transistors NM 1, NM 2 and NM 3 which are controlled by C4 , SBA Fig. 10 includes a NAND gate NAND2 which is similar to and operates in a like way as NAND gate NAND1 above described. This gate is controlled by DMC , DMC1, The gating circuit GC4 also has input terminals DMCL includes a gating circuit GC5 similar to GC4 and having input terminals The output terminals LF3 and LF4 are connected to output terminals RCINOLD and WCIN via a respective inverter I1 , I11 and a respective pass transistor PT 6, PT 7 both controlled by C4 and Mainly referring to Fig. 11, it is supposed that the bits , 1, ... of the scan byte relating to line L 1 are entered from the line CIN into CINSIPO at each trailing edge of C1 . During the time slots TS 3 of these bits the following happens when supposing that for the line L 1 concerned MMIE 1 and The operation then continues in a similar way for all the other bits, but for bit 7 of line L 1, output LF3 of GC5 becomes as a consequence of which RCINOLD and WCINOLD become activated during bit , TS second half of line L 2. Also, due to this the whole scan byte of line L 1 stored in CINSIPO is now entered into the DRAM. During the following time slot TS1 the MMI data of the last bit 7 of line L 1 is entered in both FIFOA and FIFOB. It should be noted that MMI data is stored in the latch circuit LCC for each new bit entering the CINSIPO, i.e. independently of the value of this bit. However, this MMI data is only stored in a FIFOA B when the condition of this bit is different from the older one, since WFIFOA and WFIFOB are dependent on the EXOR output signal MMIB. In the way already described above this MMI data is then transmitted to TCEA and for TCEB in a TOUT channel 16 under the control of the channel 16 processor CH16PR. Reference is now made to Figs. 12 to 16 for a more detailed description of the CAM, DMEM Figs. 12 14 and FFS Figs. 15 16 . The data memory DMEM has 16 rows of cells DM 7 to DM157 15 which are associated to respective ones of the lines TL to TL15 and which are used to store data concerning these lines. The cells of each of the 16 columns are connected to a respective conductor of the 16 bit bus DF D and each row of cells further has a read and a write input R and W respectively. The control memory CAM has 16 rows of cells C 7 to C157 15 which are also associated to respective ones of the lines TL to TL15 and therefore also to respective pairs of LIN LOUT line channels since two such LIN line channels N and N 16 and also two like named LOUT channels are permanently associated to each line L as already mentioned. These two LIN LOUT line channels are never used simultaneously and the code of these two line channels includes the same 4 bit code as the line but further has a fifth code bit MSBL which is for N and l for N 16. The cells of each row of the CAM are used to store the following data for the corresponding line From the above it follows that each row, associated to a line, of the CAM is adapted to store the MSBL of a LIN LOUT line channel number and a TIN channel number both allocated to this line. Data may be read from or written in the CAM via the conductors Data may also be written into DMEM from the 16 bit bus DF D or read from DMEM onto this bus, these data being received from TCEA B during a TINA B channel or from a line during a LIN line channel or having to be transmitted during a TOUT channel time or during a LOUT line channel to TCEA B and to a line respectively. For this reason comparison means are associated to each row of the CAM for comparing a TIN or LOUT channel identity stored therein with a TIN or a LOUT channel applied to the input conductors The cell such as C156, represented in Fig. 13 comprises a flipflop which is constituted by PMOS transistors PM1 and PM11 and NMOS transistors NM1 and NM11, the transistors PM1 and NM1 as well as PM11 and NM11 being connected in series between VCC and ground. The junction point of PM1 and NM1 which constitutes the output Q of the flipflop is connected to the interconnected gate electrodes of PM11 and NM11, and vice versa for the out put The cell circuit of Fig. 13 operates as follows The cell such as C15 shown in Fig. 14 is similar to that of Fig. 13 and includes transistors PM12, PM13 and NM14 to NM17, but has no comparison transistors such as PT1 and PT11. The output 015 is the Q output of the flipflop. The conductors Each of the row of the CAM is associated to two NAND gates of the same type as NAND1 and whose outputs are connected to the read and write inputs R and W of a corresponding row of cells of DMEM via a corresponding inverter U , T to U15, T15 respectively. For instance The transistors N 8 158, M 8 158 N 9 159 M 9 159 N 1 151 M 1 151 and R 15, S 15 are controlled by C4 ETCE ELIN WDP RDP and C4 respectively. The outputs of N 9 and M 9 to N159 are interconnected. The outputs O 6 to 015 156 of the cells C 6 to C15 156 each control a corresponding NMOS transistor of the first gates. The outputs O 7 157 of the cells C 7 157 each control a corresponding NMOS transistor M 7 157 of the second gates, other NMOS transistors of which are controlled by The line channel assignment circuit FFS shown in Fig. 15 includes an adder circuit FA with cells FA4 having adder inputs X4 and Y4 and sum outputs S4 and FFS has terminals MSBL The terminals In FFS the sets of terminals CAM and The circuitry associated to The operation of the above circuitry is as follows, it being supposed that a TW instruction has been received in channel 16 of TINB and that it has already been checked that a line e.g. TL has been selected and that the byte received is a BYTE1. As already described above, the processor then transfers part of the contents of IRB, i.e. ACT 1 and a TINB channel number e.g. CH31, to SP8 under the control of the signals R8B and WSP8C4 which read the contents of IRB and place them on the 8 bit bus BB7 and write these contents in the register SP8 from this bus. Together with these data also the assignment bit ASS After having checked the activity bit ACT received the processor then starts a first free search operation by generating a STARTFFS signal Fig. 16 and applying it to FFS together with the selection signal A B which is supposed to be , as already mentioned. At the moment L B provided by TSALL is 1 the value CHC4 provided by CHAC is equal to the difference of the LOUT line channel number DMC8 provided by DMC and the time coincident TINB channel number BMC8 4 generated by BMC. It is supposed that this difference L B is equal to 2, i.e. CHC4 1 . Due to STARTFFS 1 the pass transistors PT44 4 are conductive and because L B 1 and During STARTFFS 1 also a signal WFA Fig. 16 is activated so that also pass transistors PT24 2 are conductive and because RSP8C4 1 the TINB channel number CH31 stored in SP84 8 and provided at the outputs FF 4 thereof is applied to the adder inputs X of FA4 . The adder FA then calculates the sum, modules 32, of the present TINB channel number CH31 11111 and the above difference 2 1 in order to obtain at its outputs S4 the LOUT line channel number which is time coincident with the TINB channel number CH31. This line channel number is therefore CH1 and S4 1. Afterwards both the signals WFA and RFA are activated. As a consequence the latter value 1 and the complement thereof are applied via the conductors FF4 , The value 1 is also applied via FF4 to the adder inputs X of FA for a new operation. In this operation the line number , CC3, CC2, CC1, CC , e.g. of TL , is now subtracted from the above value 1 by adding the two s complement of this number to this result. This two s complement is obtained at the outputs of the pass transistors PT43 3 because CC3 is inverted by I43 4 , VCC is directly applied to PT54 and the carry input of FA is activated at the end of STARTFFS because then Under the control of signal MSBLVALC4 provided by CH16PR this bit MSBL is written in the CAM and more particularly in the first cell of the row which is assigned to TL and for which the write input RW 15 is . This write input is activated by the NAND gate NAND controlled by the line number LI3 or CC3 . Thus a LOUT line channel number CH16 is assigned to the TINB channel number CH31 already stored in row together with the bits ACT and ASS. When for instance speech information intended for TL is received on the 16 bit bus DF D from TCEB in the TINB channel CH31 allocated to TL and has to be transmitted to TL on the LOUT channel CH16 assigned to TL and stored in row of the CAM the following happens. Hereby TSALL activates the signals ETCE and WDP and therefore enables part of the data on the 16 bit bus DF D to be written in DMEM. By these signals the transistors N 9 159 and N 1 151 are made conductive. When the above mentioned TINB channel number 1 1 1 1 1 is applied to the inputs CHC4 to CHC of the CAM the various bits thereof are compared with the bits stored in the cells C 6 2 to C156 152 and since 1 1 1 1 1 is stored in cells CC 6 2 of row of CAM, only the transistors N 2 to N 6 become conductive. Because moreover the activity bits correspond also the transistor N is conductive and this is also true for N 1 when A B 1. For this reason, when C4 1 also N 8 becomes conductive as a consequence of which the write inputs W of the row of cells DM 7 of DMEM becomes activated. By this signal part of the data stored on the 16 bit bus are written in DMEM. Afterwards TSALL activates the signals ELIN and RDP and therefore enables data to be read from DMEM and to be written on the 16 bit bus DF D . By these signals the transistors M 9 159 and M 1 151 are conductive. When the LOUT line channel number 1 is applied to the inputs CHC4 to CHC of the CAM the transistors M 2 to M 5 become conductive and the same is true for M because ACT 1. For this reason, when C4 1 also M 8 becomes conductive as a consequence of which the write input R of the row of cells DM 7 of DMEM becomes activated. By this signal the data in this row is written on the 16 bit bus DF D . Reference is now made to Figs. 17 to 20 for a detailed description of the priority circuit CLHB. The latter includes a finite state machine FSM the various states of which are represented in Fig. 20 and the details of which are shown in Fig. 17. The FSM has input terminals C1B, The FSM includes an array of NAND gates and NOR gates arranged in columns in the lower part of Fig. 17 and in rows in the upper part of this figure respectively. Each NAND gate, such as the two shown, is connected between VCC 5V and ground and comprises the series connection of a PMOS transistor PM7 , PM71 controlled by input signal TS2,3B and a plurality of NMOS transistors NM7 75, NM76 81 controlled by one or more of the above mentioned input and output signals. More particularly, the output signals Z , Z1, Z2 control the pairs of NMOS transistors NM72, NM78 NM71, NM77 and NM7 , NM76 via inverters I99, I100, I101 pass transistor PT6 , PT61, PT62 and inverters I7 , I71, I72 respectively. The input signal CLIB controls NAND gates not shown of the array via inverter I73 and pass transistor PT63 controlled by TS , The row wires x1 5 are each connected to VCC via a PMOS transistor PM72 76 controlled by TS2,3B. The row wires x1 and x2 are further connected to output terminal ESB, and MTB via inverter I78 and I79 respectively and the row wires x3, x4 and x5 are connected to the output terminals Z , Z1 and Z2 via inverters I8 , I81, I82 and pass transistors PT63, PT64 and PT65 which are controlled by input signals TS2B and The state diagram of Fig. 20 clearly shows how the FSM goes from one state to the other under the control of the above mentioned input and output signals. For instance, when FSM is in the state I The above mentioned input signals are generated in the way described hereinafter by making reference to Figs. 18 and 19. A gating circuit GC6 includes a plurality of NAND gates which operate in a similar way as those of the FSM described above. The input signals of GC6 are With these input signals GC6 generates the following output signals A latching circuit LC Fig. 14 latches the following signals during time slot TS so that these signals remain until the following time slot TS EOPB is a signal which is activated when an end of packet signal is received from TCEB. SOPSCANB is a signal which is activated when a start of scan signal is received from TCEB. CH17B is a signal which is on 1 during TS B of channel 17 of TINB. The signals LSTRB and WPNTB control the select inputs of a multiplexer circuit MUX5 Fig. 18 having a first set of inputs S 4 defining the identity of DPTC and a second set of inputs TIB3 and defining a base address i.e. the identity of an arbitrary DPTC among DPTC 31 to which priority is given first for signaling MMI data to TCEA and or TCEB. The outputs CLB4 of the multiplexer MUX 5 are connected to inputs of corresponding cells of a latching circuit LC controlled by the signals ROBB and WOBB, to the inputs of corresponding cells of a pointer circuit PNTB controlled by the signals WPNTB, RPNTB and IPNTB and to first inputs of corresponding Exclusive NOR gates EXB4 constituting a comparator CO with output CO. The second inputs of these gates are connected to outputs of the cells of PNTB. The signals WPNTB and RPNTB control the parallel connected transistors NM91 and NM92 Fig. 19 which are connected between VCC and ground and in series with PM77 and NM93, the junction point of PM77 and NM91, NM92 being connected to the gate electrodes of PM78 and NM94 which are connected in series between VCC and ground, PM77 and NM93 are controlled by C4B . Output signal WOBB which is hence equal to WPNTB RPNTB appears at the output terminal WOBB between PM78 and NM94. The signals CO, ROBB and LSTRB are further used to generate the signals C1B and C2B on the like named terminals in the following way Fig. 19 The above input signal POB is provided at the output of a packet length counter PLC Fig. 19 having preset inputs PR1 and PR2 and an increment input I. Preset input PR1 is connected to the junction point of transistors PM79 and NM95 whose gate electrodes are respectively controlled by C4B and by the output signal of NAND gate NAND4. The latter has inputs SOPB and The input signal CLIB is obtained as follows Fig. 19 . The conductor CLB which is common to all DPTC 31 is connected to the junction point of NM98 and resistor R B which are connected in series between ground and VCC and this junction point is connected to the above mentioned input terminal CLIB via inverter I92. The output of NOR gate NOR is connected to the gate electrode of NM98 via inverters I93 and I94 in series. A first input of NOR is controlled by the outputs Z , Z1 and Z2 via inverter I95 of the FSM via NAND gate NAND7. A second input of NOR is controlled by the output signal FFEB of FIFOAC via inverters I96, I97 and pass transistor P7 in series, P7 being controlled by the output of NAND7 directly and through inverter I98. Finally, the third input of NOR is controlled by the Q output of flipflop FF1 to the input of which the input signal SOPSCANB is supplied. In this way the output of NOR is activated and accordingly transistor NM98 becomes conductive when simultaneously When NM98 of DPTC is conductive the conductor CLB is grounded so that the input terminal CLIB is on 1 in all DPTC 31. These DPTC 31 are thus informed of the fact that somewhere there is a DPTC which is the state III and wants to transmit MMI data to TCEB. CLHB finally also includes flipflops FF2 and FF3 which are controlled by the output signals MTB and ESB of GC4 and provide the output signals MYTURNB and EOPSCANB respectively. Before describing the operation of the priority circuit CLHB of DPTC in detail, this operation is briefly explained below. It is supposed that the packet length counter has not yet reached its end position wherein POB 1. First part TIB3 of a base address EA is communicated to all DPTC 31 by means of a SOPSCANB instruction and completed by to form the base address During each channel time and in each DPTC 31 the own identity is compared with the base address BA and afterwards the contents of PNTB are incremented by 1 if no MMI information has to be transmitted to TCEB. In the DPTC for which the own identity is equal to the base address BA the request priority C2B 1 is granted i.e. the request to ask for the transmission of MMI information in channel 16 of TOUTB. In this way such a request priority is granted successively to all DPTC. In the DPTC having request priority the FSM is brought in the state III, whereas the FSM of the other DPTC is brought in the state II. If in the DPTC with request priority also the request signal In the states IV and V the PNTB is no longer incremented and this is also the case for all other states, except II and III. This means that after priority has been granted to a DPTC and the latter wants to transmit MMI information one waits until the following frame to again step PNTB and to thus grant a new priority. In order that the priority granting should not continue indefinitely, in each CLHB it is checked if all DPTC have at least had priority since the last transmission of MMI information and in case none of the DPTC has to send such information in all DPTC the FSM is brought in the zero state. All this happens by making the contents of the latch circuit L equal to these of PNTB when a DPTC has priority and wants to transmit MMI information state V and after PNTB has been incremented by 1. These contents are compared with those of PNTB during each channel time and when the comparison is successful a signal C1B 1 is generated in each DPTC to bring FSM in the zero state. The operation of CLHB is now described in detail. Hereby it is supposed that in DPTC , FIFOB is not empty, as indicated by It is supposed that the following happens during various channel successive times on TINB. During such a channel 16 the start of packet instruction is received from TCEB, and decoded in DCEB as a result of which the output SOPB thereof is activated. During the time slots of this channel the following happens FSM is brought from state into state I because SOPCB 1. During a following channel 16 of TINB an input instruction SOPSCANB is received and decoded in DECB. As a result the output SOPSCANB of DECB is activated and the bits TIB3 defining part of the above mentioned base address BA included in this instruction are applied to the like named inputs of the multiplexer MUX5 Fig. 18 . During the time slots of this channel the following happens By WOBB and WPNTB the complete base address BA TIB3 , applied to MUX5 is written in both the latch circuit and the pointer PNTB. LSTRB TS1B.SSB TS5B. II III 1 because SSB 1. By this signal the identity S 4 of DPTC is fed to the outputs CLB4 of MUX5 and from there to the one inputs of the comparator CO. It is supposed that this identity is equal to the base address BA which is stored in pointer PNTB and applied to the other inputs of CO. This means that DPTC has priority to possibly transmit MMI information to TCEB in TINB channel 16. In this case the output CO is activated and an output signal C2B 1 is generated at the output C2B of the inverters I9 , I91 Fig. 19 . Due to C2B 1 and SSB 1 and supposing that the PLC counter has not yet reached its end position so that IPNTB TS3B. II III 1 because FSM is in state III. By this signal the contents of PNTB are incremented by 1 so that the address BA 1 is now stored therein. ROBB TS4B. II III 1 because FSM is in state III. By this signal the base address BA stored in L is compared with the address BA 1 stored in PNTB. As a consequence the output CO of the comparator becomes and the same is true for the output C2B. Also the output C1B remains on . LSTRB TS1B.SSB TS5B. II III 1 because FSM is in state III. By this signal the identity of DPTC is compared with the address BA 1 stored in PNTB. Since this DPTC identity is equal to BA the output CO of the comparator is . During TS2B of this channel the FSM is brought in the state V because During TS1B of these channels one has During the time slots of each of these channels the following happens The operation of CLHB of another DPTC, e.g. DPTC1, during the above considered channels is described hereinafter. The address BA 1 stored in PNTB is each time written in L so that both L and PNTB store BA 1. To be noted that the packet length counter PLC is stepped at the occurrence of each CH17B signal and that when this counter has reached its maximum value the output POB thereof is activated. When this is the case, FSM is brought during a time slot TS2 of a channel in the state VI in the following conditions Finally, FSM is brought from state VI into the idle state when the signal FRB is activated and in the case a signal EOPSCANB, shortened ESB, is generated. This signal is also generated when FSM goes to state from state II or III. In connection with the state diagram it should be noted that in the state III thereof C2B so that to transfer the FSM into state III this condition has not to be checked. While the principles of the invention have been described above in connection with specific apparatus, it is to be clearly understood that this description is made only by way of example and not as a limitation on the scope of the invention.