# Self tuning coin recognition system

## Claims
Verfahren zum Betreiben eines Münzprüfgerätes 10 , beidem eine Münze geprüft und aus dem Prüfergebnis bestimmtwird, ob die Münze akzeptierbar ist, und, falls dies so ist,der Wert der Münze bestimmt wird, wobei im Prüfschritt eineMessung für die Münze gewonnen wird und im Bestimmungsschrittentsprechende vorgegebene Akzeptanzkriterien verwendetwerden, um zu bestimmen, ob die Messung eine akzeptierbareMünze eines entsprechenden Münzwertes anzeigt, wobei dasVerfahren den weiteren Schritt beinhaltet, daß, wenn dieMünze als akzeptierbar bestimmt wurde, das entsprechendeAkzeptanzkriterium für den Münzwert um ein Maß geändert wird,das von der Messung abhängt, so daß das geänderteAkzeptanzkriterium bei einer anschließend geprüften Münzeangewendet werden kann, wobei das Verfahren weiterhin denSchritt einer zusätzlichen Änderung des entsprechendengeänderten Akzeptanzkriteriums für den Münzwert beinhaltet,um zwischen relativ weiten Akzeptanzgrenzen und relativ engenAkzeptanzgrenzen auszuwählen, wobei letztere die Wahrscheinlichkeitverringern, daß münzartige Stücke akzeptiert werdenund dadurch eine Änderung des jeweiligen Akzeptanzkriteriumsbewirken.

## Description
The present invention relates to the examination of coins for authenticity and denomination, and moreparticularly to an adjustment free self tuning mechanism for coin testing. It has long been recognized in the coin examining art that the interaction of an object with a lowfrequency electromagnetic field can be used to indicate, at least in part, the material composition of theobject and thus whether or not the object is an acceptable coin and, if acceptable, its denomination. See,for example, U.S. Patent No. 3,059,749. It has also been recognized that such low frequency tests areadvantageously combined with one or more tests at a higher frequency. See, for example, our U.S. PatentNo. 3,870,137. Most known electronic coin testing mechanisms require for each coin test included therein at least onetuning element and at least one tuning adjustment during the manufacturing process to compensate forcomponents which have slightly different values within tolerance and for variations in component positioningwhich occur during the construction of the coin testing apparatus. For example, in a low frequency coin testapparatus employing a bridge circuit, the bridge circuit is normally tuned in the factory by placing a knownacceptable coin in the test position and balancing the bridge. It is known, eg. from US A 3918565, EP A 0101276 and DE A 3103371, to avoid problems resultingfrom manufacturing tolerances causing the same coin to produce different test results in different mechanismsby employing a setting up operation, whereby sample coins are inserted into each mechanism,measurements derived from the testing circuitry are processed to generate acceptance limits, and theseacceptance limits are subsequently used in the testing of coins. In this way, the acceptance limits will beindividually adapted for each mechanism. It is also known, e.g. from US A 3918565, EP A 0017370 andEP A 0058094, to test coins by measuring the frequency of anelectro magnetic field to which the coin is subjected, and to useas a measurement the amount by which a frequency shifts in thepresence of a coin, instead of the frequency value itself. Thistechnique reduces errors resulting from variations in the testingconditions such as the idling frequency of the coin examinationoscillator. An additional problem long recognized in the coin testing art is the problem of how to compensate forcomponent aging, for changes in the environment of the coin apparatus such as temperature and humiditychanges, and for similar disruptive variations which result in undesirable changes in the operatingcharacteristics of the electronic circuits employed in the electronic coin test apparatus. Retuning of the test apparatus by a service person is one known response to the problem of componentaging but such retuning is expensive and provides only a temporary solution to the problem. Discretecompensation circuitry has been developed to solve the environmental compensation problem. See, forexample, our published European Patent Application No. 0034887. Further, an improved transmit receivemethod and apparatus has been developed which eliminates the need for tuning adjustments or discretecompensation circuitry. See our published European Patent Application No. 0110510. Reference is also made to GB A 2132805 and DE A 3345252, both of which were published after thepriority date of the present invention. These documents disclose a coin checking device for checking thatinserted coins meet an acceptable criterion for a particular coin denomination which is selectable byoperation of a switch . To meet this criterion, the measurement of a coin must fall within a predeterminedrange of the mean value of the measurements of a plurality of previous acceptable coins. The test resultsfor each coin are compared against only a single acceptance criterion, which is appropriate to the selecteddenomination. WO A 80 01963 discloses an apparatus for distinguishing testitems, particularly banknotes. Each measurement of a test itemis statistically processed with measurements for earlier itemsto calculate a mean value and a dispersion value, these beingused to set limit values to determine whether a subsequentlytested item is genuine. The present invention is defined in the accompanying claims. The operation of an embodiment of the present invention may be summarized as follows. A standardset of initial acceptance limits for any coin which is to be tested, such as the U.S. 5 cent coin, is initiallystored These initial limits are set rather wide so that virtually 100 acceptance of all genuine 5 cent coins isassured. During factory preparation of each individual coin test apparatus, acceptable coins are inserted intothe apparatus and are tested by one or more sensors. A statistical function of the parameter measured byeach sensor is computed. For example, a running average of the parameter can be computed. Once apredetermined number of acceptable coins have been accepted, a new acceptance limit is automatically established by the electronic coin testing apparatus. For example, the new acceptance limits can be set atthe running average plus or minus a stored, preestablished constant or a stored, preestablished percentageof the running average. Alternatively, standard initial acceptance limits are not stored and tuning is begunby transmitting an instruction signal that the apparatus is to be tuned for a particular coin such as the 5 centcoin. Then, a predetermined number of valid 5 cent coins are inserted and tested. A single test coinrepresentative of the average 5 cent coin may be used. A statistical function is computed and acceptancelimits are set based thereon. Similarly, the process is repeated for additional denominations of coins whichare to be accepted. In either case, the initial factory tuning is accomplished by merely inserting apredetermined number of valid coins. Once the apparatus is commercially operational, the statisticalfunction is continuously recomputed by the electronic coin testing apparatus as additional acceptable coinsare inserted. In order to compensate for environmental changes such as a change of temperature orhumidity after a large number of coins have been accepted, the coin testing apparatus reweights thecomputation so that the computation of the statistical function is based upon information for only apredetermined number of the most recently inserted and accepted coins. The self tuning feature of a coin testing apparatus according to the present invention has the advantageof significantly reducing the time and skill required to originally tune the coin testing apparatus in thefactory, thereby reducing the costs of labor used in the manufacturing process. Further, such apparatuscontinuously retunes itself during normal operation thereby compensating for parameter drift and environmentalchanges. Although the coin examining method and apparatus of this invention may be applied to a wide range ofelectronic coin tests for measuring a parameter indicative of a coin s acceptability and to the identificationand acceptance of any number of coins from the coin sets of many countries, the invention will beadequately illustrated by explanation of its application to identifying the U.S. 5 cent coin. In particular, thefollowing description concentrates on the details for setting the acceptance limits for a high frequencydiameter test for U.S. 5 cent coins, but the application of the invention to other coin tests for U.S. 5 centcoins, such as a high frequency thickness test, and to other coins will be clear to those skilled in the art. The figures are intended to be representational and are not necessarily drawn to scale. Throughout thisspecification, the term coin is intended to include genuine coins, tokens, counterfeit coins, slugs, washers,and any other item which may be used by persons in an attempt to use coin operated devices.Furthermore, from time to time in this specification, for simplicity, coin movement is described as rotationalmotion however, except where otherwise indicated, translational and other types of motion also arecontemplated. Similarly, although specific types of logic circuits are disclosed in connection with theembodiments described below in detail, other logic circuits can be employed to obtain equivalent resultswithin the scope of the claims. Fig. 1 shows a block schematic diagram of an electronic coin testing apparatus 10 in accordance withthe present invention. The mechanical portion of the electronic coin testing apparatus 10 is shown in Fig. 3.The electronic coin testing apparatus 10 includes two principal sections a coin examining and sensingcircuit 20 including individual sensor circuits 21, 22 and 23, and a processing and control circuit 30. Theprocessing and control circuit 30 includes a programmed microprocessor 35, an analog to digital A D converter circuit 40, a signal shaping circuit 45, a comparator circuit 50, a counter 55, and NOR gates 61,62, 63, 64 and 65. Each of the sensor circuits 21, 22 includes a two sided inductive sensor 24, 25 having its seriesconnected coils located adjacent opposing sidewalls of a coin passageway. As shown in Fig. 3, sensor 24 ispreferably of a large diameter for testing coins of wideranging diameters. Sensor circuit 23 includes an inductive sensor 26 which is preferably arranged as shown in Fig. 3. Sensor circuit 21 is a high frequency low power oscillator used to test coin parameters, such asdiameter and material, and to wake up the microprocessor 35. As a coin passes the sensor 24, thefrequency and amplitude of the output of sensor circuit 21 change as a result of coin interaction with thesensor 24. This output is shaped by the shaping circuit 45 and fed to the comparator circuit 50. When thechange in the amplitude of the signal from shaping circuit 45 exceeds a predetermined amount, thecomparator circuit 50 produces an output on line 36 which is conected to the interrupt pin of microprocessor35. A signal on line 36 directs the microprocessor 35 to wake up or in other words, to go from a lowpower idling or rest state to a full power coin evaluation state. In a preferred embodiment, the electroniccoin testing apparatus 10 may be employed in a coin operated telephone or other environment in which lowpower operation is very important. In such environments, the above described wake up feature isparticularly useful. The above described wake up is only one possible way for powering up upondetecting coin arrival. For examples a separate arrival detector could be used to detect coin arrival andwake up the microprocessor. The output from shaping circuit 45 is also fed to an input of the A D converter circuit 40 which convertsthe analog signal at its input to a digital output. This digital output is serially fed on line 42 to themicroprocessor 35. The digital output is monitored by microprocessor 35 to detect the effect of a passingcoin on the amplitude of the output of sensor circuit 21. In conjunction with frequency shift information, theamplitude information provides the microprocessor 35 with adequate data for particularly reliable testing ofcoins of wideranging diameters using a single sensor 21. The output of sensor circuit 21 is also connected to one input of NOR gate 61 the output of which is inturn connected to an input of NOR gate 62. NOR gate 62 is connected as one input of NOR gate 65 whichhas its output connected to the counter 55. Frequency related information for the sensor circuit 21 isgenerated by selectively connecting the output of sensor circuit 21 through the NOR gates 61, 62 and 65 tothe counter 55. Frequency information for sensor circuits 22 and 23 is similarly generated by selectivelyconnecting the output of either sensor circuit 22 or 23 through its respective NOR gate 63 or 64 and theNOR gate 65 to the counter 55. Sensor circuit 22 is also a high frequency low power oscillator and it isused to test coin thickness. Sensor circuit 23 is a strobe sensor commonly found in vending machines. Asshown in Fig. 3, the sensor 26 is located after an accept gate 71. The output of sensor circuit 23 is used tocontrol such functions as the granting of credit, to detect coin jams and to prevent customer fraud bymethods such as lowering an acceptable coin into the machine with a string. The microprocessor 35 controls the selective connection of the outputs from the sensor circuits 21, 22and 23 to counter 55 as described below. The frequency of the oscillation at the output of the sensorcircuits 21, 22 and 23 is sampled by counting the threshold level crossings of the output signal occurring ina predetermined sample time. The counting is done by the counter circuit 55 and the length of thepredetermined sample time is controlled by the microprocessor 35. One input of each of the NOR gates 62,63 and 64 is connected to the output of its associated sensor circuit 21, 22 and 23. The output of sensor 21is connected through the NOR gate 61 which is connected as an inverter amplifier. The other input of eachof the NOR gates 62, 63 and 64 is connected to its respective control line 37, 38 and 39 from themicroprocessor 35. The signals on the control lines 37, 38 and 39 control when each of the sensor circuits21, 22 and 23 is interrogated or sampled, or in other words, when the outputs of the sensor circuits 21, 22and 23 will be fed to the counter 55. For example, if microprocessor 35 produces a high logic 1 signalon lines 38 and 39 and a low signal logic 0 on line 37, sensor circuit 21 is interrogated, and each timethe output of the NOR gate 61 goes low, the NOR gate 62 produces a high output which is fed throughNOR gate 65 to the counting input of and counted by the counter 55. Counter 55 produces an output countsignal and this output of counter 55 is connected by line 57 to the microprocessor 35. Microprocessor 35determines whether the output count signal from the counter 55 and the digital amplitude information fromA D converter circuit 40 are indicative of a coin of acceptable diameter or not by determining whether theoutputs of counter 55 and A D converter circuit 40 or a value or values computed therefrom are withinstored acceptance limits. When sensor circuit 22 is interrogated, microprocessor 35 determines whether thecounter output is indicative of a coin of acceptable thickness. Finally, when sensor circuit 23 is interrogated,microprocessor 35 determines whether the counter output is indicative of coin presence or absence. Whenboth the diameter and thickness tests are satisfied, a high degree of accuracy in discrimination betweengenuine and false coins is achieved. Fig. 2 is a detailed schematic diagram of circuitry suitable for the embodiment of Fig. 1 including thefollowing components Circuit blocks and elements in Fig. 2 corresponding to blocks and elements in Fig. 1 have beensimilarly numbered. In the electronic coin testing apparatus 10 shown in detail in Fig. 2, the blocks 15, 16and 17 provide an appropriate level of base current to the transistors T Sensor circuit 22 shown in detail in Fig. 2 is also an oscillator circuit and it produces frequency testinformation relating to the width of a coin passing sensor 25. The oscillator shown in Fig. 2 has an inductivesensor 25 comprising two coils connected in series and located on the opposing side walls 36 and 38shown in Fig. 3. The two coils of sensor 25 have a combined inductance of approximately 400uH and theoscillator circuit has an idling frequency of approximately 750kHz. The sensor circuit 23, the strobe sensor, has its inductive sensor 26 located after a coin routing gate 71as shown in Fig. 3. The single coil of inductive sensor 26 has an inductance of approximately 240uH andsensor circuit 23 has an idling frequency of approximately 850kHz. The strobe sensor is used to detect coinpassage, to prevent coin jamming and customer fraud. The microprocessor 35 is a CMOS device with its RAM power supply 80 backed up by a 3 volt lithiumbattery LB. This power arrangement provides for nonvolatile memory. Other devices including EEPROMand NOVRAM devices can be used to achieve the same result. As shown in Fig. 2, the three chips labeled58, 59 and 60 constitute the external program memory. Where a microprocessor 35 is used which hassufficient internal memory, such as an Intel 80C49, the chips 58, 59 and 60 may be eliminated. In a preferred embodiment, the electronic coin testing apparatus 10 is incorporated into a coin operatedtelephone. In this embodiment, the apparatus 10 is only powered up when the phone is off the hook. Whenthe phone is lifted off the hook, each of the sensor circuits begins to oscillate. The microprocessor 35samples and stores idling or no coin amplitude A The method of the present invention will now be described in the context of setting coin acceptancelimits based upon the frequency information from sensor circuit 21. As a coin approaches and passesinductive sensor 24, the frequency of its associated oscillator varies from the no coin idling frequency, f If the coin is determined to be acceptable, the F value is stored and added to the store of informationused by microprocessor 35 for computing new acceptance limits. For example, a running average of storedF values is computed for a predetermined number of previously accepted coins and the acceptance limitsare established as the running average plus or minus a stored constant or a stored percentage of therunning average. Both wide and narrow acceptance limits are stored in the microprocessor 35.Alternatively these limits might be stored in RAM or ROM. In the embodiment shown, whether the newacceptance limits are set to wide or narrow values is controlled by external information supplied to themicroprocessor through its data communication bus. Alternatively, a selection switch connected to one inputof the microprocessor 35 might be used. In the latter arrangement, microprocessor 35 tests for the state ofthe switch, that is, whether it is open or closed and adjusts the limits depending on the state of the switch.The narrow range achieves very good protection against the acceptance of slugs however, the tradeoff isthat acceptable coins which are worn or damaged may be rejected. The ability to select between wide andnarrow acceptance limits allows the owner of the apparatus to adjust the acceptance limits in accordancewith his operational experience. Other ports of the microprocessor 35 are connected to a relay control circuit 70 for controlling the gate71 shown in Fig. 3, a clock 75, a power supply circuit 80, interface lines 81, 82, 83 and 84, and debug line85. The microprocessor 35 can be readily programmed to control relay circuit 70 which operates a gate toseparate acceptable from unacceptable coins or perform other coin routing tasks. The particular details ofcontrolling such a gate do not form a part of the present invention. For further details of typical gateoperation, see for example, U.S. Patent No. 4,106,610 See also, Plesko, Low Power Coin Routing Gate ,U.S. patent No. 4534459 corresponding to EP A 0154525 for details of a preferred gate suitable for use inconjunction with this invention. The clock 75 and power supply 80 supply clock and power inputs required by the microprocessor 35.The interface lines 81, 82, 83 and 84 provide a means for connecting the electronic coin testing apparatus10 to other apparatus or circuitry which may be included in a coin operated vending mechanism whichincludes the electronic coin testing apparatus 10. The details of such further apparatus and the connectionthereto do not form part of the present invention. Debug line 85 provides a test connection for monitoringoperation and debugging purposes. Fig. 3 illustrates the mechanical portion of the coin testing apparatus 10 and one way in which sensors24, 25 and 26 may be suitably positioned adjacent a coin passageway defined by two spaced side walls 36,38 and a coin track 33, 33a. The coin handling apparatus 11 includes a conventional coin receiving cup 31,two spaced sidewalls 36 and 38, connected by a conventional hinge and spring assembly 34, and coin track33, 33a. The coin track 33, 33a and sidewalls 36, 38 form a coin passageway from the coin entry cup 31past the coin sensors 24, 25. Fig. 3 also shows the sensor 26 located after the gate 71, which in Fig. 3 isshown for separating acceptable from unacceptable coins. It should be understood that other positionings of sensors may be advantageous, that other coinpassageway arrangements are contemplated and that additional sensors for other coin tests may be used. Fig. 4 is a flowchart of the operation of the embodiment of Figs. 1 3. According to one embodiment ofthe method of the present invention, for each denomination of coin to be accepted, initial acceptance limitsfor each test are stored in the microprocessor 35 of the electronic coin testing apparatus 10. These initiallimits are set quite wide guaranteeing almost 100 acceptance of acceptable coins. These acceptancelimits are used only in the original tuning. To tune the electronic coin testing apparatus 10, a predeterminednumber of known acceptable coins of each denomination are inserted. For example, eight acceptable 5 centcoins are inserted. The inserted coins are detected by the sensor circuit 21, microprocessor 35 isawakened, amplitude and frequency tests are conducted for each coin using sensor circuit 21, and asecond frequency test is conducted using sensor circuit 22. Then, new acceptance limits are computedbased on the test information for the eight acceptable coins. These new limits are used for testing additionalcoins which are inserted. By way of example, the frequency test using sensor circuit 21 will be furtherdiscussed, but it should be understood that similar processing is performed for each test undertaken in thecoin validation process. The flowchart of Fig. 4 illustrates the process involved in the coin telephone context. It will beunderstood that the method and apparatus of the present invention can be used in other contexts. Thegeneral method of Fig. 4 may be understood by taking all f variables as representing any functionwhich might be tested, such as frequency, amplitude and the like, for any coin test. The specific discussionwhich follows will be in terms of frequency testing for United States 5 cent coins. After a phone off the hook condition is detected, the microprocessor 35 is powered up, an idlingfrequency, f Next, a dimensionless quantity, F, is calculated by dividing Δf by f For the first coin the coin count C equals zero. C 0. This coin count is then incremented by one.C C 1. The coin count C 1 is now compared with the number 32. C 32 Since C is not equal 32, thenext step is to compare C with 8 to see if C is greater than or equal to 8. C 8 Since C is not greater thanor equal to 8, the next step is to compute a new average F,F As additional 5 cent coins are inserted to tune the apparatus the process repeats until the eighth 5 centcoin is inserted. For the eighth 5 cent coin the coin count C 7, when it is incremented by 1 it becomesequal to 8. When C is now compared with 8 it is found to equal 8. As a result, a flag is set to use thecomputed F As additional 5 cent coins are inserted, F The recomputation of F As discussed above, the method of the present invention is not limited to frequency based testing.Neither is the statistical function limited solely to a running average. Further, while the specific example ofthe flowchart discussed above uses the numbers 8, 16 and 32 in the computation process, otherpredetermined numbers may be used without departing from the present invention. The values 8, 16 and 32were selected because a F The operation of the electronic coin testing apparatus 10 will be clear to one skilled in the art from theabove discussion.