# Alpha 1 antitrypsin mutants and DNA coding therefor and the production of each, and therapeutic formulations using such mutants and their preparation

## Claims
Verwendung von Lys³⁴²alpha 1 Antitrypsin bei der Herstellung eines Arzneimittels für die Behandlung oder Prophylaxe von mit alpha 1 Antitrypsin in Zusammenhang stehenden Zuständen.

## Description
The present invention is directed to the preparation of mutagenized genes and expression of structural proteins thereof in microorganisms. Specifically, the present invention is directed to the preparation of mutagenized human alpha 1 antitrypsin genes and expression of site specific mutants of alpha 1 antitrypsin. Alpha 1 antitrypsin hereinafter AT is a protease inhibitor, the principal function of which is to inhibit elastase, a broad spectrum protease. Lung tissue in mammals is particularly vulnerable to attack by elastase, therefore AT deficiency or inactivation may lead to loss of lung tissue and elasticity and subsequently to emphysema. Loss or reduction of AT activity may be a result of oxidation of AT due to environmental pollutants, including tobacco smoke. Deficiency of AT may result from one of several genetic disorders. See Gadek, James E., and R. D. Crystal, Alpha 1 Antitrypsin Deficiency , Owen et al. It is desirable to prepare an altered form of wild type AT for administration to persons suffering from a genetic deficiency in AT whereby the altered form is more immunologically compatible with such persons. It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide methods for preparing site specific mutagenesis of wild type human AT. In one aspect, this invention provides the use of lys³⁴² alpha 1 antitrypsin in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment or prophylaxis of alpha 1 antitrypsin related conditions. In the accompanying figures The present invention provides methods for producing single and double stranded closed circular DNA coding for a structural gene for a site specific mutagenized AT. Specifically, a method is provided for producing single or double stranded closed circular DNA coding for the structual gene of human lys³⁴² AT, also known as the Z allele of AT. The methods according to the present invention may also be utilized to prepare AT mutagenized at both positions 342 and 358, as well as at other positions. The present invention also provides methods for expression of the mutagenized proteins. Referring to FIG. 1, there is shown the structural gene and amino acid sequence of the predominant form of wild type AT. The active site of AT comprising the amino acids in positions 356 through 360 contains a methionine residue. One of the genetic AT deficiencies is the formation of an abnormal form known as the Z allele variant. Referring to FIG. 1, this mutation is manifested by the substitution of a lysine for a glutamic acid at amino acid position 342. Persons homozygous for the Z allele variant produce approximately 15 of normal AT levels, apparently due to a block in processing in the liver. This results in the accumulation of an immature form of AT in the liver, with a corresponding decrease in plasma levels of the inhibitor. Up to 80 of persons having this condition can be expected to die of chronic lung and or liver disease. It should be noted that the Z allele variant protein itself has the same anti elastase activity as the wild type protein. The AT levels of such persons may be augmented by intravenous administration of wild type AT. See Gadek, et al., Particularly, the present invention is directed to preparation of a single stranded DNA template comprising cDNA of the wild type human AT gene or a complement thereof. A linear oligonucleotide primer containing one or more mismatches at the codon which is to be mutated is annealed to the template, together with a second primer which anneals to the 5 side of the mutagenic site. A preferred second primer is the universal primer of M13 which is commercially available and hybridizes to the As used herein, the terms DNA construct, vector, and plasmid constitute any DNA molecule which has been modified by human intervention, or which is a clone of a molecule which has been so modified, to contain segments of DNA which are combined and juxtaposed in a manner which would not otherwise exist in nature. The term expression vector as used herein will be a DNA construct which will contain genetic information which insures its own replication when transformed into a host organism, and at least one gene to be expressed in the host organism, as well as other control functions which may be necessary for expression to occur, such as a site for initiation of transcription, initiation of translation, a promoter region and, in some cases, a terminator region. The term expression is defined in its common usage to mean the condition wherein a protein product, coded by a gene present in the host organism, is synthesized by an organism. The term gapped refers to a DNA molecule which is substantially double stranded but contains single stranded regions. Standard biochemical techniques were utilized throughout. M13 host strains, universal primer and vectors were obtained from Bethesda Research Laboratories. Restriction endonucleases were obtained from Bethesda Research Laboratories, New England BioLabs, and Boehringer Mannheim Biochemicals, and used according to the manufacturers directions. General cloning procedures, including transformation of bacterial cells, a method for the blunting of DNA fragments using DNA polymerase I Klenow fragment and the joining of DNA fragments using T4 DNA ligase are described by Maniatis et al. A general method for site specific mutagenesis is described by Zoller, Mark J. and M. Smith, Oligonucleotide Directed Mutagenesis of DNA Fragments Cloned Into M13 Derived Vectors , Oligonucleotides which contain one or more base alterations from sequences in wild type AT may be prepared by the phosphite triester method, generally disclosed in Beaucage and Caruthers, The gene coding for the predominant form of human AT FIG. 1 may be isolated from a human liver cDNA library by conventional procedures using the baboon sequence Kurachi et al, An oligonucleotide is prepared as shown in TABLE 1 which corresponds to a sequence approximately centered about the codon for amino acid 342 in the AT sequence. The oligonucleotide in TABLE 1 contains a mismatch at the codon for amino acid 342 whereby the codon for lysine is included to produce the Z allele variant. It will be appreciated that longer oligonucleotides may be utilized. It will also be appreciated that other mutant codons could be substituted for those shown, due to the degeneracy of the genetic code. It is preferred that the oligonucleotides be in the range of 15 21 nucleotides in length and contain nucleotides 1135 1149. The above identified oligonucleotide , together with a second primer, such as the universal primer of M13, is annealed to the single stranded recombinant M13 phage DNA containing the wild type AT gene. In a typical procedure 20 pmol of phosphorylated Z allele oligonucleotide and 20 pmol of M13 primer were mixed with 1 pmol of the recombinant M13 phage containing the AT cDNA and allowed to anneal. The oligonucleotides were then extended using DNA polymerase I Klenow fragment and the ends of the synthesized strands were joined, using T4 DNA ligase. The resulting DNA molecules are significantly double stranded over the AT coding region and partially single stranded over the M13 vector region. These gapped DNA circles may be transfected into competent The mutant AT coding regions may be removed from the closed circular DNA by digestion of the replicative form with BamH1 and Pst1. The fragments containing the mutant AT gene may be inserted into BamH1 and Pst1 digested vectors M13 TAC or M13 mp10. The phage M13 mp10 is commercially available from P L Biochemicals or Bethesda Research Laboratories. The resulting constructs may be used to transform M13TAC is prepared by digesting the phage M13 mp10 with EcoRI and BamH1. A synthetic DNA adaptor, purchased from P L Biochemicals, having the following structure and lacking the five prime phosphates is ligated onto the resultant sticky ends to form the construct mp10A. The construct mp10A thus contains EcoRI and BamH1 restriction sites about a sequence including ATGGAG which provides the initiation codon and the first amino acid Glu codon for the AT gene. The substitution of the adaptor for the region between the original EcoRI and BamH1 sites of mp10 destroys the lac operon reading frame and the resulting transfectants give white plaques. The vector mp10A is digested with AvaII and the sticky ends filled using the Klenow fragment of DNA polymerase. This is followed by digestion with EcoRI, and removal of the sticky end using S1 nuclease. The resultant blunt end fragment is mp10B. A DNA fragment comprising the trp lac promoter is removed from pDR540, a commercially available plasmid P L Biochemicals . The plasmid pDR540 is cut with HindIII and the sticky ends are filled with Klenow polymerase. Linkers having the sequence CCTCGAGG are ligated to the blunt ends and excess linkers are removed by digestion with XhoI. The resulting construct, known as pDR540X, contains an XhoI site in place of the HindIII site of pDR540. Digesting pDR540X with XhoI and BamH1, following by blunting the ends using Klenow fragment, yields a fragment containing the trp lac promoter TAC and Shine Dalgarno sequence. The above described fragment containing the trp lac promoter is inserted into the mp10B fragment producing the hybrid phage mp10C. Ligation of the blunted AvaII end of mp10B to the blunted XhoI end of the TAC containing fragment regenerates an XhoI site at the junction. Ligation of the blunted BamH1 site of the TAC fragment to the blunted EcoRI end of mp10B creates an NcoI site CCATGG at this junction. The proper orientation of the fragment may be screened for by the formation of blue plaques. The phage mp10C contains a second BamH1 site located upstream of the ATG initiation codon which must be removed to facilitate insertion of the AT gene into the original BamH1 site. To remove this extraneous BamH1 site, mp10C is subjected to two digestions with BamH1. The first, a partial digestion, is followed by filling in the sticky ends with Klenow polymerase, digesting with XhoI, and purifying on an agarose gel. The proper fragment is identified as the one containing the NcoI restriction site. The second BamH1 digestion of mp10C is run to completion, the sticky ends are filled using Klenow polymerase and α ³²P dNTP s are used to facilitate monitoring of subsequent manicuring of the blunt ends by Bal 31 exonuclease. Five base pairs are removed from the labeled terminus by Bal 31 exonuclease, thereby eliminating the BamH1 site. The sequence containing the promoter is removed with XhoI and gel purified. The mp10 and pDR540 derived fragments are ligated together, cloned into For cloning and expression in yeast, the mutant AT sequences may be isolated from the replicative forms of the M13 phage containing the mutant sequences as BamH1 fragments and inserted into BamH1 digested plasmid HAT4. Plasmid HAT4 was constructed in the following manner. Plasmid pJDB248 Beggs, The resultant plasmid was cut with BamH1 and religated to produce plasmid TEA32. The TPI promoter fragment was then removed from TEA32 as a Bgl II BamH1 fragment of about 900 base pairs, and inserted into the BamH1 site of C1 1. Plasmid pUCα1 was then cleaved with Xba I and EcoRI and the yeast TPI terminator, obtained from plasmid pTPIC10 Alber and Kawasaki, Additionally, the mutant sequences may be inserted into other yeast expression vectors, for example YEp13 Broach et al., Alternatively, expression may be achieved by integration of said AT mutant sequences into the host chromosome. In this instance, the AT sequences will be linked, in proper orientation, to appropriate transcription promoter and terminator sequences. The mutagenized proteins according to the present invention may be purified from extracts of the transformed yeast cells by immuno adsorption. An immuno adsorption column may be prepared by covalently attaching affinity purified antibodies to alpha 1 antitrypsin to CNBr activated Sepharose according to the method of Cuatrecasas The site specific mutagenized AT proteins according to the present invention may be useful in treatment of genetic antitrypsin deficiency, such as found in genetic ZZ individuals, and other disease states related to inadequate levels of AT or to conditions whereby the patient displays antigenic reactions to wild type AT. Thus, conditions such as emphysema and other lung disorders related to progressive digestion of lung sacs may be treated, such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or adult respiratory distress syndrome. Nongenetically related emphysema may also be treated such as emphysema resulting from heavy smoking. Conditions not necessarily confined to the lungs may also be treated such as cystic fibrosis and arthritis. For a review of alpha 1 antitrypsin, see Gadek, According to the invention there is, in general, provided a pharmaceutical or veterinary formulation comprising lysine 342 alpha 1 antitrypsin. The proteins produced in accordance to the present invention may be admixed with conventional pharmaceutical carriers. Preferably the proteins may be administered intravenously or by inhalation. While effective dosages may vary according to the severity of the condition and weight of the subject, dosages in the range of 0.5 to 10.0 grams per week of a protein introduced intravenously may, in many cases, be effective. Lower dosages may be effective if the method of administration is by inhalation. Oral administration may also be effective provided the site specific mutagenized AT is protected in capsules or coated carriers to prevent premature degradation in the digestive tract.