# MACHINE FOR PRODUCING TEXTURED CREPE YARN

## Claims
Maschine 1 zur Herstellung eines texturierten Kreppgarns, mit einem Stützgerüst 2 , einer sich zwischen einer Spindel 7 , die abgewickelt wird, und einer Spule 18 , die aufgewickelt wird, erstreckenden Garnbahn 23 , einer ersten Transportrolle 11 , die bahnabwärts der Spindel 7 auf das Garn einwirkt, einer zweiten Transportrolle 12 , die bahnaufwärts der Spule 18 auf das Garn einwirkt, einer in der Garnbahn zwischen den Rollen 11,12 angeordneten und vom Garn durchquerten Heizeinrichtung 19 , und einer in der Garnbahn zwischen der Heizeinrichtung 19 und der zweiten Transportrolle 12 angeordneten und vom Garn durchquerten Falschzwirn Spindel 9 ,

## Description
The present invention relates to a machine for producing textured crepe yarn of the type including a support frame, a yarn path extending between a spindle being unwound and a bobbin being wound, a first feed pulley acting on the yarn downstream of the spindle, a second feed pulley acting on the yarn upstream of the bobbin, a heater located on the yarn path between the pulleys and traversed by the yarn, and a false twist spindle located on the yarn path between the heater and the second feed pulley and traversed by the yarn. Such a type of machine is known and an example thereof is given in FR A 1,190,668. As it may be appreciated, according to the machine of the above identified type as disclosed in the cited prior art document, the motion of the yarn moving from the spindle being unwound to the bobbin being wound, is determined by the feeding devices which are in the form of a pair of rolls trapping the yarn between them and not allowing any slippage. Therefore, the adjustment and the control of the yarn motion, according to the machine of FR A 1,190,668, have to be effected by controlling the rotation of each pair of rolls and this has to be carried out by means of driving gears which have the disadvantage of being complex and making the machine expensive. The object of the present invention is that of making a machine, of the above identified type, less complex and less expensive so that to overcome the disadvantage found in the prior art. That object is achieved by a machine of the type specified above which is characterized according to the appended claim 1. Further characteristics and advantages of the machine according to the present invention will be revealed in the following description of a preferred embodiment, given by way of non limiting example, with reference to the appended drawings in which With reference to the appended drawings, the machine 1 includes a support frame 2, substantially the height of a man, for example 1.80 metres, extending longitudinally as far as necessary. The machine 1 further includes a plurality of operative units, each indicated 3 which repeat side by side along the frame 2, in two parallel lines of units 3, indicated 4 and 5, on opposite sides of the frame 2. The units 3 are substantially identical to each other and hence a detailed description of only one of them is given below. The unit 3 includes a spindle holder 6, rotatably mounted with its axis A A vertical on the foot of the frame 2. A spindle 7 is mounted in the spindle holder 6. Above the spindle 7, the unit 3 includes a coil yarn guide 8 fixed to the frame 2. Above the spindle 7 and the coil yarn guide 8, a false twist spindle 9, having a vertical axis of rotation B B, is rotatably supported on the frame 2. Above the false twist spindle 9 the frame 2 rotatably supports a feed shaft 10, having a longitudinally extending horizontal axis C C, on which there are keyed a first yarn feed pulley 11 and a second yarn feed pulley 12, substantially side by side. It should be noted that each feed pulley 11 and 12 has a device 13 for varying the angle α, β respectively at which the yarn passes over the pulley, each device including a small pulley 14 freely rotatably mounted at the end of an arm 15 which is, in turn, angularly displaceable about an axis D D parallel to the axis C C by means of a manually operable lever hand grip 16. In the drawings, for clearness purpose, the device 13 is shown only in combination with the feed pulley 12. The pulleys 11 and 12 act on the yarn with a tractive force which is predetermined according to the amplitude of the angle α or β. Above the feed shaft 10, the unit 3 includes a bobbin carrier rotatably supported substantially at the top of the frame 2 about a longitudinal axis E E. A bobbin indicated 18 is mounted on the bobbin carrier 17. The unit 13 further includes a heater 19 supported by the frame 2 and extending vertically through a distance approximately between the yarn guide 8 and the shaft 10. A passage 20 extends vertically within the heater 19 and has an upper inlet orifice 21 and a lower outlet orifice 22. The unit 3 includes a yarn path, generally indicated 23, between the spindle 7 being unwound and the bobbin 18 being wound, this path comprising successive sections which will be described in detail below. The yarn path 23 includes a first, ascending section 24 in which the yarn, in its initial state, is unwound from the spindle 7 and reaches the upper end of the spindle. There follows a descending section 25 extending through the spindle 7 to the lower end of the spindle itself. In this section the yarn is in a single twisted state, this twisting having occurred during its passage over the upper end of the spindle. The section 25 is followed by an ascending section 26 which extends from the lower end of the spindle 7 up to the feed pulley 11. Along this section 26 the yarn passes through the yarn guide 8, is guided thereby, and is in a double twisted state having undergone further twisting when passing over the lower end of the spindle. The section 26 is followed by a section 27 which extends from the pulley 11 to the false twist spindle 9. In this section 27 the yarn passes through the passage 20 in the heater 19,entering through the orifice 21 and leaving through the orifice 22. The section 27 descends from the pulley 11 to the outlet orifice 22 and then ascends to the false twist spindle 9. Along the section 27 the yarn is in a double twisted state to which a further twist,for example I S, is added, by the action of the false twist spindle 9. As a result of the presence of the heater 19, the yarn, while passing therethrough, undergoes fixing of the double twist and of the conventional S type twist, thus becoming textured. The section 27 is followed by a final, substantially ascending section 28, extending from the false twist spindle 9 to the bobbin 18. In this section the yarn passes at a pre established, adjustable angle β over the feed pulley 12. In the section 28 the yarn is subjected, again through the action of the false twist spindle 9, to a further twist in the opposite sense to the preceding twist, thus, for example, returning to the state of twist achieved in the section 26, and giving rise to a so called crêpe twisted textured yarn. At the end of the section 28, the yarn is wound on the bobbin 18. It should be noted that, to advantage, the feed shafts 10 of the units 3 in the line 4 constitute a single shaft 29 extending along the frame 2, and the feed shafts 10 of the units 3 of the line 5 also constitute another single shaft 30 extending along the frame 2. It should also be noted that the heaters 19 of the units 3 are grouped together in fours, each group being in a single body 31. In particular, each single body 31 groups together the heaters of two units 3 lying side by side in the line 4 and two corresponding units 3 lying side by side in the line 5, each body being located centrally of the respective units. It should further be noted that according to the preferred embodiment of the invention, the machine is simple and economical to construct also by virtue of the fact that the feed pulleys provided downstream and upstream of the spindle being unwound and the bobbin being wound are keyed side by side on a single shaft. Another factor that adds to the simple and economical construction of the machine, according to the preferred embodiment of the invention, results from the fact that it includes several units located side by side in two lines, and that the units in both lines all have their feed pulleys keyed onto a single shaft. A further advantage, both from the energy saving point of view and that of constructional simplicity of the machine, results from the grouping together of the heaters in groups of four with an evident reduction in the heat dissipated to the exterior. Finally, it should be noted that the machine according to the invention has proved to be reliable in operation and requires less maintenance and servicing.