# A method for microphotometering microscope specimens.

## Abstract
A method for microphotometering individual volume elements of a microscope specimen, comprising generating a luminous dot or cursor and progressively illuminating a plurality of part elements in the focal plane of the microscope 30 through the specimen. The mutual position between the specimen and the focal plane is then changed and a plurality of part elements in the focal plane are illuminated. Reflected and or fluorescent light and transmitted light respectively created by the illumination is collected, detected and stored for generating a three dimensional image of that part of the specimen composed of the volume elements. Illumination of multiples of part elements is deflected by deflecting the luminous cursor or by moving the specimen or by both detecting the cursor and also displacing the spe cimen. The change in the relative mutual position between the specimen and the focal plane of the microscope 30 is effec ted either by displacing the specimen or the obtective. Apparatus for carrying out the method include a spe cimen table 301 , a microscope obiective and light source 31, 32, 33 . The table 301 or the objective are arranged for stepwise movement along the main axis of the microscope synchronously with punctilinear light scanning of the spe cimen. The table 301 is arranged for stepwise movement at right angles to the main axis and or the light source 31, 32, 33 is arranged for deflection over the focal plane through the specimen.