# PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITIONS

## Claims
Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragsstaaten BE, CH, DE, FR, GB, IT, LI, LU, NL, SE

## Description
This invention relates to pharmaceutical compositions, especially for the systemic transdermal administration of pharmacologically active agents. Many pharmaceutical compositions have been proposed for the sustained transdermal administration of pharmacologically active agents into the systemic circulation. These generally comprise essentially a solid reservoir or matrix made of a solid polymer or gel containing the pharmacologically active agent dispersed throughout. On one side of the drug reservoir there is a backing member impermeable to the drug and on the other side a protective peel strip which is taken off before use. The backing member may be larger than the drug reservoir and may carry near its edges an adhesive layer to retain the protective peel strip and, when this is removed, to stick the unit to the skin. Additionally or alternatively a drug permeable adhesive layer may be provided on the reservoir to retain the protective peel strip and stick the unit to the skin. In some proposals the drug reservoir has attached to it a drug permeable control membrane or member, through which the pharmacologically active agent passes, in order to regulate the rate of passage of the active agent, e.g. to prevent dose dumping. In use after the peel strip has been removed, the unit is stuck onto the skin and the pharmacologically active agent passes from the drug reservoir to the skin. More complicated systems have been proposed to improve the penetration rate of the pharmacologically active agent through the skin. However, most systems do not provide a sufficient penetration rate of the pharmacologically active agent or suffer from other disadvantages. Before the priority date of the present application the transdermal pharmaceutical compositions for systemic administration of drugs commercially available on a wide scale were restricted to pharmacologically active agents which exist in liquid form e.g. scopolamine or nitroglycerin, and which in any event easily penetrate the skin. There is thus a need for new approaches to the transdermal application of solid and liquid pharmacologically active agents using controlled release systms. We have now surprisingly found that the pharmacologically active agent bopindolol, 4 2 benzoyloxy 3 tert butylaminopropoxy 2 methylindole, a beta blocker which is known for oral administration e.g. for the treatment of hypertension, has especially interesting properties for transdermal administration. This is hereinafter referred to as the active agent of the invention. The penetration of bopindolol through the skin may be observed in standard in vitro or in vivo tests. One in vitro test is the well known diffusion test which may be effected according to the principles set out in GB 2098865 A and by T.J.Franz in J.Invest.Dermatol 1975 64, 194 195. Solutions containing the active agent in unlabelled or radioactively labelled form are applied to one side of isolated pieces of intact human skin or hairless rat skin about 2 cm² in area.The other side of the skin is in contact with physiological saline. The amount of active agent in the saline is measured in conventional manner, e.g. by HPLC or spectrophotometric techniques, or by determining the radioactivity. In one aspect the present invention provides the use of bopindolol as active agent in the manufacture of a medicament suitable for systemic transdermal administration. In a further aspect the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition for the transdermal systemic administration of an active agent characterised in that the active agent is bopindolol. In general for application e.g. behind the ear an amount of bopindolol from about 1 to 6 mg is indicated, e.g. 5 mg for a dose for 1 to 3 days. The active agent of the invention may be administered in any conventional liquid or solid transdermal pharmaceutical composition, e.g. as described in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 16th Edition Mack Sucker, Fuchs and Spieser, Pharmaceutische Technologie 1st Edition,Springer and in GB 2098865 A or DOS 3212053. Conveniently the composition is in the form of a viscous liquid, ointment or solid matrix. The active agent may be incorporated in a plaster. We have now found that bopindolol may be advantageously administered transdermally from a drug reservoir comprising a hydrophilic polymer having the pharmacologically active agent dispersed throughout. In a further aspect the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition for the transdermal systemic administration of a pharmacologically active agent characterised in that it contains bopindolol in a reservoir comprising a hydrophilic polymer. In yet a further aspect the present invention provides the use of bopindolol in a hydrophilic polymer for the manufacture of a transdermal medicament suitable for systemic administration of the active agent through intact skin. The hydrophilic polymers take up water and are permeable to water, e.g. moisture from the skin, although the polymers may be insoluble in water. The polymers may swell and provide release of a large amount of pharmacologically active agent leading to a high concentration gradient of pharmacologically active agent between the skin surface and stratum corneum at a pH of from 4 to 7, preferably at skin pH, e.g. 5.5. If desired they may be soluble in organic solvents. Examples of suitable polymers include polyacrylamide and its co polymers, polyvinylpyrrolidone PVP , vinyl acetate vinyl alcohol co polymers, polyvinyl alcohol PVA and derivatives, ethyl cellulose and other cellulose and starch derivatives. The polymer preferably has a mean molecular weight of from 50,000 to 300,000 Daltons, such as 100,000 to 200,000 Daltons, and is preferably film forming. Hydrophilic polyacrylates are preferred polymers. The acrylate may be substituted, e.g. a methacrylate. They may be commercially available acrylate methacrylate co polymers. Some or all of the acid groups may be esterified, e.g. with alkyl groups such as methyl or ethyl groups. Preferably at least 2 of the alkyl groups may contain polar substituents, e.g. a hydroxy group. It has been found that polyacrylates containing cationic functional groups are especially preferred. Transdermal pharmaceutical compositions for the systemic administration of pharmacologically active agents through intact skin wherein the active agent is in a reservoir comprising a polyacrylate containing catonic functional groups are novel and form part of the present invention. The present invention also provides the use of bopindolol in a polyacrylate containing cationic groups for the manufacture of a medicament suitable for transdermal systemic administration of the pharmacologically active agent through intact skin of a subject. Examples of cationic groups include dialkylaminoalkyl groups, e.g. dimethylaminoalkyl groups. Especially preferred cationic groups include quaternary ammonium groups, preferably a tri alkyl aminoalkyl group. Examples of such groups are trimethylaminoethyl ester groups. The polyacrylate may contain some carboxylic acid groups in free form or salt anions, e.g. chloride anions in order to balance the cationic groups. The ratio of cationic groups to neutral groups is preferably from 1 10 to 1 50 e.g. from 1 20 to 1 40. Preferably the polymers have an alkali count defined in analogous manner to acid count of from about 10 to about 200 mg KOH per gram polymer, e.g. 10 to 30 mg KOH per gram polymer. Examples of commercially available polymers of this type include The drug reservoir may contain plasticizers and or softeners preferably skin compatible tensides e.g. to provide flexibility to the unit, and or to dissolve partially or totally the pharmacologically active agent in the reservoir. Examples of additives include The amount and type of additive required will depend on a number of factors,e.g. the HLB value of the tenside and the flexibility of the unit required. Surprisingly the amount of additive does not significantly influence the capability of the polyacrylate to form films. Generally the weight ratio of tenside to the hydrophilic polymer is from about 1 10 to 5 1, e.g. 1 10 to 1 3. The drug reservoir may contain skin penetration promoters, e.g. 1 dodecylazacycloheptan 2 one azone and N,N diethyl m toluamide DEET . The amount and type of skin penetration promoter, and or additives present will depend on a number of factors. Generally the weight ratio of skin penetration promoting agent to hydrophilic polymer will be from about 1 1 to 1 10. Preferably the amount of tenside and or skin penetration promoter is from 3 to 50 , preferably 20 to 40 by weight of the pharmaceutical composition. If desired the drug reservoir may contain a hydrophobic elastomer, e.g. a synthetic resin. Such resins are conventional in the plaster art. Suitable resins include non swellable acrylate resins. These may if desired be adhesive. The weight ratio of hydrophilic polymer to resin may for example be from 1 0.5 to 1 10. The resin may contain modifiers, extenders, e.g. of softening point about 50 to 100 C. Such extenders may have adhesive or softening properties. Examples of such extenders include resin acids, glyceryl and phthalate esters of resin acids, hydrogenated abietyl alcohol and its phthalate esters. The extenders for example be present in an amount of from 5 to 40 of the weight of the resin. Any pharmacologically active agent capable of penetration of the skin may be dispersed throughout the hydrophilic polymer. The indication for which the active agent is used is not critical. It is preferred that the daily transdermal dose for such agents is less than 20 mg per day, e.g. less than 10 mg per day. The active agent for use in any of the pharmaceutical compositions mentioned above may be in free form e.g. free base form or in pharmaceutically acceptable salt form e.g. pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt form. Such acid addition salt forms include the hydrogen malonate, hydrogen maleate, hydrogen fumarate, hydrochloride, tartrate etc. Preferably a solid active agent has an average particle diameter of from 30 to 50 µm. The active agent may be partly suspended and or partly dissolved in the reservoir. It may be dispersed so finely that to the eye a smooth homogenous film results. The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention are useful for the systemic administration of pharmacologically active agents through intact skin, as indicated in standard in vitro and in vivo tests. The release of active agent from the pharmaceutical compositions may be followed for example by determining e.g. by ultraviolet spectroscopy, the amount of active agent released on shaking the pharmaceutical composition in 0.9 NaCl solution at 37 C at a paddle speed of about 120 rpm. The penetration of the active agent through isolated rat and human skin may be followed in the well known diffusion test effected according to the principles, e.g. set out in GB 2098865 A and in T.J.Franz, J.Invest.Dermatol 1975 , The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may be used for the same indications as known for oral or intravenous administration. The amount of pharmaceutically active agent to be administered will individually depend on the drug release characteristics of the pharmaceutical compositions, the drug penetration rate observed in in vitro and in vivo tests, the potency of active agent, the size of the skin contact area, the part of the body to which the unit is stuck, and the duration of action required. The amount of active agent and area of the pharmaceutical composition etc may be determined by routine bioavailability tests comparing the blood levels of active agents after administration of the active agent in a pharmaceutical composition according to the invention to intact skin and blood levels of active agent observed after oral or intravenous administration of a therapeutically effective dose of the pharmacologically active agent. Given the daily dose of a drug for oral administration, the choice of a suitable quantity of drug to be incorporated in a transdermal composition according to the invention will depend upon the pharmacokinetic properties of the active agent, including the first pass effect the amount of drug which can be absorbed through the skin from the matrix in question for a given area of application and in a given time and the time for which the composition is to be applied. Thus, a drug with a high first pass effect may require a relatively low quantity in the transdermal composition when compared with the oral daily dose, since the first pass effect will be avoided. On the other hand, generally a maximum of only approx. 50 of the drug in the matrix is released through the skin in a 3 day period. The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention in general have for example an effective contact area of drug reservoir on the skin of from about 1 to about 50 square centimetres, preferably about 2 to 20 square centimetres, and are intended to be applied for from 1 7 days, preferably 1 3 days. Examples of representative doses of bopindolol are a dose of 1 to 10 mg in a patch of 10 cm² to be administered once over 3 consecutive days in each week for treatment of hypertension. The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may be produced in conventional manner by dispersing or dissolving the pharmacologically active agent through a hydrophilic drug reservoir. The weight ratio of pharmacologically active agent to hydrophilic polymer may vary between wide limits. The weight ratio may be for example sufficient to produce a supersaturation of the pharmacologically active agent in the drug reservoir. In general the weight ratio is from 1 10 to 1 1. If the drug reservoir is not itself adhesive a pressure sensitive adhesive may be used to stick the drug reservoir to intact skin. Any conventional adhesive may be used, e.g. a polyacrylate. The layer may be applied to the drug reservoir and have a thickness of from 1 to 200 µms preferably 10 to 100 µms. If the adhesive layer is thin enough then the pharmacological agent will pass through it. Alternatively the adhesive layer may be applied to the edges of an outer cover for the drug reservoir and the outer cover stuck to the intact skin holding the drug reservoir in close contact with the intact skin. The drug reservoir may be produced in conventional manner, e.g. in an adhesive plaster or patch. If it is a polymer matrix it may be produced by dispersing or dissolving the pharmacologically active agent in a solution of the polymer and other additives in a volatile organic solvent, e.g ethanol, methylene chloride, or acetone. A film is formed by spreading the dispersion or solution over the outer protective cover. The wet film may have a thickness of about 0.05 to 0.5 millimetres, e.g. 0.1 to about 0.3 millimetres. The film is allowed to dry, e.g. at room temperature or a slightly elevated temperature below 50 C. The drug reservoir may be built up in a series of layers and then any adhesive layer provided in the last layer. The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may be produced in conventional manner for skin penetration pharmaceutical compositions. Figure 1 of the accompanying drawings gives a schematic cross section through the layers of a representative pharmaceutical composition according to the invention. Figure 2 of the accompanying drawings gives a schematic cross section of a another embodiment, e.g. in the form of a bandage or plaster. In figures 1 and 2 there are several layers a d and in the case of Figure 2, additionally layer e. Layer a is a medical cover made out of e.g. polyester aluminium laminate foil. Layer b is an occulsive foil, e.g. of aluminium foil. If desired this may be omitted. Layer c may be made out of 1 to 10 layers of a drug reservoir. The drug reservoir is a homogenous dispersion of active agent particles or a solution of active agent in a polymer matrix. Layer d may be an adhesive layer. In one embodiment not shown the layer d may extend to between the outer edges of layer a and layer e. Alternatively the layer e may be omitted completely. Layer a may extend around layers b to d in Figure 2. Layer e is a protective peel off layer which is stuck to the adhesive layer as well as to the edges of the cover layer a. On use any protective layer e is peeled off and the unit stuck to intact skin. In the following examples all temperatures are in degrees Centigrade and are uncorrected. All amounts are in parts by weight unless otherwise stated. Details of components are given in Lexicon for Pharmazie, Kosmetic and angrenzende Gebiete by H.P.Fiedler, 2 Edition, Cantor Aulendorf, W.Germany or from the relevant manufacturers. In the following examples, the indicated terms have the meaning shown below Polyoxyethylene 10 oleyl ether BRIJ 97 as defived above. Glycerin Polyethylene glycol 35 ricinoleate Cremophor EL as defined above. Acrylate synthetic resin is self cross linking acrylate Brand Durotack 280 2416 available from Delft National Chemie Zutphen Netherlands available as a light yellow solution containing as solvent 57 ethyl acetate, 32 ethanol, 9 hexane, 2 methanol solids content 41 , Viscosity Brookfield 2100 6000 mPas, Plasticity Williams 3 mm, Density 0.94 Flashpoint 0.94. 1.2 g of hydrophilic polymer are dissolved in 3 g acetone or ethanol or other appropriate volatile organic solvent with stirring in 1 to 2 hours. 0.6 g pharmacologically active agent and 1.2 g of tenside softener are added. The mixture is vigorously stirred for about 5 to 20 minutes with a high speed stirrer to give a viscous mass. The mass is spread as a film on top of an aluminised polyester foil thickness 23 µm using a conventional apparatus, e.g. an Erichsen film apparatus Model 411 150. The mass is spread across the foil at a speed of 18 mm sec to produce a film of thickness 0.2 mm when wet. The film is allowed to dry at room temperature over 4 to 6 hours. The resultant hydrophilic polymer drug matrix weighs 8.5 mg per square centimetre and contains 1.7 mg active agent per square centimetre. A further film of an acrylate adhesive Rohm Pharma 7708 47 is then applied onto the drug polymer matrix as a thin layer 0.1 mm thickness in analogous manner. The aluminium foil is then cut up into patches about 10 sq cm in area. Unless otherwise stated the drug matrix is built up from one film layer. It may if desired be built up as more than one layer. The release of active agent is measured in vitro in standard skin diffusion tests through freshly isolated hairless rat skin. The rat skin piece is located in a Franz diffusion chamber see T.J.Franz, J.Invest.Dermatol 1975 64 191 195. The receptor phase is pumped continuously and every hour samples are taken and measured for active agent content using HPLC. The trial lasts 24 hours and the penetration flux over 24 hours hereinafter referred to as flux and if desired a steady state flux after a lag time of 3 to 10 hours is measured. The following compositions are made in analogous manner to Example A. Solutions of the following compositions are made up and the penetration rate observed.