# Method for identifying and characterizing organisms.

## Abstract
A method of characterizing and or identifying an un known organism which comprises comparing the chroma tographic pattern of restriction endonuclease digested DNA from the organism, which digested DNA has been reassoci ated or hybridized with ribosomal RNA information contain ing nucleic acid from a probe organism, with equivalent chromatographic patterns of at least two known different organism species.

## Claims
Claims 1. Detectably labeled DNA complementary to prokaryotic ribosomal RNA rRNAcDNAl in substantially pure form, wherein said rRNAcDNA is a faithful copy of said ribosomal RNA rRNA . 2. The rRNAcDNA of Claim 1 which is radiolabeled or metal labeled 3. The rRNAcDNA of Claim 1 wherein said prokaryotic rRNA is bacterial rRNA. 4. The rRNAcDNA of Claim 1 which is substantially free of cDNA which is complementary to types of RNA other than rINA. 5. The rRNAcDNA of Claim 1 which is substantially free of cellular components. 6. The rRNAcDNA of Claim 1 which has been obtained by reverse transcribing rRNA in the presence of a primer. 7. The rRNAcDNA of Claim 6 which has been obtained by using a DNA hydrolysate primer. 8. The rRNAcDNA of Claim 6 which has been obtained by reverse transcribing with reverse transcriptase from avian myeloblastosis virus.

## Description
Description Method for Identifying and Characterizing OrganismsTechnical Field The present invention relates to a method for the rapid and accurate characterization and identification of organisms, including prokaryotic and eukaryotic organisms, such as bacteria, plants, and animals.Background Art The classification of living organisms has traditionally been done along more or less arbitrary and somewhat artificial lines. For example, the living world has been divided into two kingdoms Plantae plants andAnimalia animals . This classification works well for generally familiar organisms, but becomes difficult for such organisms as unicellular ones e.g., green flagellates, bacteria, blue green algae , since these differ in fundamental ways from the plants and animals . It has been suggested to simply divide organisms with respect to the internal architecture of the cell.In this scheme, all cellular organisms are either prokaryotic or eukaryotic. Prokaryotes are less complex than eukaryotes, they lack internal compartmentalization by unit membrane systems, and lack a defined nucleus.Prokaryotic genetic information is carried in the cytoplasm on double stranded, circular DNA no other DNA is present in cells except for the possible presence of phage, bacterial viruses, and circular DNA plasmids, capable of autonomous replication . Eukaryotes, on the other hand, have a multiplicity of unit membrane systems which serve to segregate many of the functional components into specialized and isolated regions. For example, genetic information DNA can be found in a well compartmentalized nucleus and also in organelles mitochondria and in photosynthetic organisms chloroplasts. The replication, transcription, and translation of the eukaryotic genome occurs at either two or three distinct sites within the cell in the nucleocytoplasmic region, in the mitochondrion and in the chloroplast. The differences between prokaryotes and eukaryotes, however, breaks down when a comparison of mitochondria and chloroplasts is carried out with prokaryotes these organelles are today considered to have been derived from free living prokaryotes, which entered into an endosymbiotic relation with primitive eukaryotes, and eventually became closely integrated with the machinery of the host cell and incapable of independent existence see e.g., Fox, G.E. et al, Science 209 457 463 1980 , at 462 Stanier, R. Y. et al, The Microbial World, Fourth Edition, Prentice Hall, Inc., 1976, at p. 86 .For example, it has been demonstrated that DNA from mouseL cell mitochondria carrying the ribosomal RNA gene region exhibits notable sequence homologies toEscherichia coli ribosomal RNA, thus providing strong support for the endosymbiotic model Van Etten, R. A. et al, Cell, 22 157 170 1980 . It has also been shown that the nucleotide sequence of 23S ribosomal DNA fromZea mays chloroplast has 71 homology with 23S ribosomalDNA from E. coli Edwards, K. and Kossel, H., NucleicAcids Research, 9 2853 2869 1981 other related work Bonen, L. and Gray, M. W., ibid, 8 319 335 1980 also further supports the general concept. In this model the eukaryotic cell is a phylogenetic chimera with organelle components that are clearly prokaryotic in nature. The prokaryotic eukaryotic dichotomy then1 also has drawbacks, even as a broad classification method. Where classification of organisms becomes more than a scientific exercise is in the identification of plants and animals for hybridization and breeding purposes, and in the accurate and reliable identification of microorganisms which may infect so called higher organisms or other media. For example, the plantbreeder, cattle breeder, or fish breeder may wish to have a quick and reliable means of identifying different species and strains of their subjects. The veterinarian, physician, or horticulturist may wish to have an accurate identification of any infectious organisms parasites, fungi, bacteria, etc. and viruses present in examined plant or animal tissues. The correct identification of species of these organisms and viruses is of particular industrial importance and applicabilitv. The problem can best be illustrated by referring to the identification of bacteria. Names of bacterial species usually represent many strains, and a strain is considered to be a population derived from a single cell. Strains of a species have similar sets of attributes which serve to define the species. Precise definitions of bacterial species are difficult to express because subject limits to strain diversity within species are required to define species boundaries. Buchanan, R.E., International Bulletin of BacteriologicalNomenclature and Taxonomy, 15 25 32 1965 . The practical application of definitions of species to the identification of an unknown bacterial strain requires the selection of relevant probes, such as substrates and conditions to detect phenotypic attributes, and radioactively labeled DNA from the same species. It is necessary to use a screening procedure to presumptively identify the strain so that the appropriate probe can be selected to identify the strain. The challenge is to precisely define the boundaries of species, preferably in terms of a standard probe which reveals species specific information, so that definitions of species can be directly and equally applied to the identification of unknown strains. Bergey s Manual of Determinative Bacteriology Buchanan, R. E. and Gibbons, N. E., Editors, 1974, 8thEdition, The Williams Wilkins Company, Baltimore provides the most comprehensive treatment of bacterial classification particularly for nomenclature, type strains, pertinent literature, and the like. It is, however, only a starting point for the identification of any species since, inter alia, it is normally out of date, and is limited in space to describing species quite briefly. See for example, Brenner, D.J., Manual ofClinical Microbiology, 3rd Edition, American Society ofMicrobiology, Washington, D.C., 1980, pages 1 6. The term species , as applied to bacteria, has been defined as a distinct kind of organism, having certain distinguishing features, and as a group of organisms which generally bear a close resemblance to one another in the more essential features of their organization. The problem with these definitions is that they are subjective Brenner, supra, at page 2. Species have also been defined solely on the basis of criteria such as host range, pathogenicity, ability or inability to produce gas in the fermentation of a given sugar, and rapid or delayed fermentation of sugars. In the 1960 s, numerical bacterial taxonomy also called computer or phenetic taxonomy became widely used. Numerical taxonomy is based on an examination of as much of the organism s genetic potential as possible. By classifying on the basis of a large number of characteristics, it is possible to form groups of strains with a stated degree of similarity and consider them species. Tests which are valuable for the characterization of one species, however, may not be useful for the next, so this means to define species is not directly and practically applicable to the identification of unknown strains. Although this may be overcome in part by selecting attributes which seem to be species specific, when these attributes are used to identify unknown strains, the species definition is applied indirectly. See for example Brenner, supra, at pages 2 6.The general method, furthermore, suffers from several problems when it is used as the sole basis for defining a species, among them the number and nature of the tests to be used, whether the tests should be weighted and how, what level of similarity should be chosen to reflect relatedness, whether the same level of similarities is applicable to all groups, etc. Hugh, R. H. and Giliardi, G. L., Manual of ClinicalMicrobiology, 2nd Edition, American Society forMicrobiology, Washington, D.C., 1974, pages 250 269, list minimal phenotypic characters as a means to define bacterial species that makes use of fractions of genomes. By studying a large, randomly selected sample of strains of a species, the attributes most highly conserved or common to a vast majority of the strains can be selected to define the species. The use of minimal characters is progressive and begins with a screening procedure to presumptively identify a strain, so that the appropriate additional media can be selected. Then the known conserved attributes of the species are studied with the expectation that the strain will have most of the minimal characters. Some of the minimal characters do not occur in all strains of the species.A related concept is the comparative study of the type, the neotype, or a recognized reference strain of the species.This control is necessary because media and procedures may differ among laboratories, and it is the strain, not the procedure, that is the standard for the species. A molecular approach to bacterial classification is to compare two genomes by DNA DNA reassociation. A genetic definition of species includes the provision that strains of species are 70 or more related. With DNA DNA reassociation a strain can be identified only if the radioactively labeled DNA probe and unknown DNA are from the same species. The practical application of this 70 species definition however is limited by selection of an appropriate probe. This may be overcome in part by selecting phenotypic attributes which seem to correlate with the reassociation group, but when these are used alone the DNA DNA reassociation species definition is also applied indirectly. Brenner, supra, at page 3, states that the ideal means of identifying bacterial species would be a black box which would separate genes, and instantly compare the nucleic acid sequences in a given strain with a standard pattern for every known species something akin to mass spectrophotometric analysis.Brenner, however, concedes that although restriction endonuclease analysis can be done to determine common sequences in isolated genes, we are not at all close to having an appropriate black box, especially one suited for clinical laboratory use. His words could be equally applied to any species of organisms. This brief review of the prior art leads to the conclusion that there presently exists a need for a rapid, accurate, and reliable means for identifying unknown bacteria and other organisms, and to quickly classify the same, especially to identify the organism of a disease, or of a desirable biochemical reaction. The method should be generally and readily useful in clinical laboratories, should not be dependent on the number of tests done, on the subject prejudices of the clinician, nor the fortuitous or unfortuitous trial and error methods of the past. Further, a need also exists for a method useful for identifying and distinguishing genera and species of any living organism, which can be readily and reliably used by veterinarians, plant breeders, toxicologists, animal breeders, entomologists and in other related areas, where such identification is necessary. Disclosure of the Invention It is therefore an object of the invention to provide a quick, reliable and accurate method of objectively identifying organisms, especially but not limited to microorganisms. Yet another object of the invention is to provide a method of identifying organisms such as bacteria which utilizes the organisms genome. Another object of the invention is to provide a method of characterizing and identifying species and genera of pathogenic organisms in the clinical laboratory, so as to provide the capability of characterizing and identifying the cause of any given animal or plant disease. Still another object of the invention is to provide various products useful in the aforementioned methodologies. These and other objects of the invention1 as will hereinafter become more readily apparent, have been attained by providing A method of characterizing an unknown organism which comprises comparing the chromatographic pattern of restriction endonuclease digested DNA from said organism, which digested DNA has been hybridized or reassociated with ribosomal RNA information containing nucleic acid from or derived from a probe organism, with equivalent chromatographic patterns of at,least two known different organism species. Still another object of the invention has been attained by providing A method of diagnosing a pathogenic organism infection in a sample which comprises identifying the organism in said sample by the aforementioned method. Brief Description of the Drawings FIGURE 1 shows the EcoR I restriction endonuclease digest of DNA isolated from strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, using cDNA to 16S and 235 ribosomal RNA rRNA of E. coli as the probe. FIGURE 2 shows the Pst I restriction endonuclease digest of DNA isolated from strains of P. aeruginosa, using cDNA to 16S and 235 rRNA of E. coli as the probe. FIGURE 3 shows the EcoR I restriction endonuclease digest of DNA isolated from species of glucosenonfermenting, gram negative rods, using cDNA to 16S and 23S rRNA of E. coli as the probe. FIGURE 4 shows the Pst I restriction endonuclease digest of DNA isolated from species of glucosenonfermenting, gram negative rods using cDNA to 16S and 23S rRNA of E. coli as the probe. FIGURE 5 shows the EcoR I restriction endonuclease digest of DNA isolated from various Bacillus subtilis strains, using cDNA to 16S and 23S rRNA of E. coli as the probe. FIGURE 6 shows the Pst I data for the same strains as in FIGURE 5, with the same probe. FIGURE 7 shows the Bgl II data for the same strains as in FIGURES 5 and 6, with the same probe. FIGURE 8 shows the Sac I data for the same strains as in FIGURES 5 7, with the same probe. FIGURE 9 shows the EcoR I restriction endonuclease digest of DNA isolated from B. subtilis and B. polymyxa, using cDNA to 16S and 23S rRNA from E. coli as the probe. FIGURE 10 shows the Pst I data for the same strains as in FIGURE 9 with the same probe. FIGURE 11 shows the Bgl II and Sac I data for the same strains as in FIGURES 9 and 10, with the. same probe. FIGURE 12 shows the detection of Streptococcus pneumoniae in EcoR I digested DNA from infected mouse tissues using cDNA from 16S and 23S rRNA from E. coli as the probe. FIGURE 13 shows the identification of a mouse species by comparing Pst I digests of DNA isolated from mammalian tissues, using cDNA to 18S and 28S rRNA from cytoplasmic ribosomes of Mus musculus domesticus mouse . FIGURE 14 shows the EcoR I digested DNA from mouse and cat tissues hybridized with Mus musculus domesticus 28S rRNA cDNA probe. FIGURE 15 shows Sac I digested DNA from mammalian tissues hybridized with Mus musculus domesticus 183 and 28S rRNA cDNA probe. FIGURE 16 shows EcoR I digested DNA from mammalian tissues and cell cultures hybridized with Mus musculus domesticus 18S and 28S rRNA cDNA probe. Best Mode for Carrying Out the Invention This invention is based on the inventor s realization that, if species are discrete clusters of strains related to a common speciation event, there should be, despite divergence, a likeness shared by strains that objectively defines the species boundary strains of species should contain structural information which is a clue to their common origin. Since the greatest amount of an organism s past history survives in semantides, DNA and RNA, Zuckerkandle, E. and Pauling,L., Journal of Theoretical Biology, 8 357 366 1965 , the inventor concluded that an experimental approach which makes use of information contained in a few conserved genes is the use of rRNA.Ribosomal RNA has a structural and functional role in protein synthesis Schaup, Journal of Theoretical Biology, 70 215 224 1978 , and the general conclusion frpm rRNA DNA hybridization studies, is that the base sequences of ribosomal RNA genes are less likely to change, or are more conserved during evolution, than are the majority of other genes Moore, R. L., Current Topics In Microbiology and Immunobiology, Vol. 64 105 128 1974 , SpringerVerlag, New York . For example, the primary structure of 16S rRNA from a number of bacterial species has been inferred from oligonucleotide analysis Fox, G. E. et al,International Journal of Systematic Bacteriology, 27 4457 1977 .There are negligible differences in the 16S oligomer catalogs of several strains of E. coli Uchida,T. et al, Journal of Molecular Evolution, 3 63 77 1974 the substantial differences among species, however, can be used for a scheme of bacterial phylogeny Fox, G.E., Science, 209 457 463 1980 . Different strains of a bacterial species are not necessarily identical restriction enzyme maps show that differentEcoR I sites occur in rRNA genes in two strains of E.coli Boros, I.A. et al, Nucleic Acids Research 6 18171830 1979 . Bacteria appear to share conserved rRNA gene sequences and the other sequences are variable Fox, 1977, supra . The present inventor further discovered that restriction endonuclease digests of DNA have sets of fragments containing rRNA gene sequences that are similar in strains of a species of organism e.g., bacteria , but different in strains of other species of the organism i.e., despite strain variation, enzyme specific sets of restriction fragments with high frequencies of occurrence, and minimal common genotypic characters, define the species. This is the essence of the invention. The present inventor also discovered that the method is general, in that it is applicable to both eukaryotic and prokaryotic DNA, using a ribosomal nucleic acid probe from any organism, prokaryoti e or eukaryotic, of the same or different classic taxonomic classification than the organism being identified. The present invention offers an objective method of defining organisms based on detecting DNA fragments containing ribosomal RNA gene sequences in restriction endonuclease digests. The detection is carried out by hybridizing or reassociating DNA fragments with nucleic acid containing rRNA information from a probe organism. By the organism which can be characterized which term is meant to include identified by the process of the invention, it is meant to include virtually any organism which, by definition, contains DNA. In this respect it is useful to refer to a classical taxonomic scheme as a point of reference. All organisms belonging to the Kingdoms Monera, Plantae and Animalia are included. For example, among those of the Kingdom Monera can be mentioned theSchizomycetes Bacteria of the classes myxobacteria, spirochetes, eubacteria, rickettsiae, and the cyanopytha blue green algae . Among those of the Kingdom Plantae can be mentioned the Division Euglenophta Euglenoids ,Division Chlorophyta green algae classes chlorophyceae and charophyceae, Division Chrysophta, classes xanthophyceae chrysophyseae, bacillariophyceae DivisionPyrrophyta Dinoflagellates Division Phaeophyta Brown algae Division Rhodophta Red algae DivisionMyxomycophyta slime molds , classes myxomycetes, acrasiae, plasmodiophoreae, labyrinthuleae Division Eumycophyta true fungi , classes phycomycetes, ascomycetes, and basidomycetes Division Bryophta, classes hepaticae, anthocerotae, and musci DivisionTracheophyta Vascular plants , subdivisions psilopsida, lycopsyda, sphenopsida, pteropsida, spermopsida classes cycadae, ginkgoae, coniferae, gneteae and angiospermae subclasses dicotyledoneae, monocotyloedoneae. Among those of the Kingdom Animalia can be mentioned theSubkingdom Protozoa, Phylum Protozoa Acellular animals subphylum plasmodroma, classes flagellata, sarcodina and sporozoa subphylum ciliophora, class ciliata theSubkingdom Parazoa, Phylum porifera Sponges , class calcarea, hexactinellida, and desmospongiae, theSubkingdom Mesozoa, Phylum mesozoa the SubkingdomMetazoa, Section Radiata, Phylum coelenterata, classes hydrozoa, scyphozoa, anthozoa, Phylum ctenophora, classes tentaculata and nuda Section Protostomia Phylum platyhelmintes flatworms classes tubellana, trematoda, and cestoda Phylum nemertina Phylum acanthocephala Phylum aschelmintles, classes rotifera, gastrotricha, kinorhyncha, priapulida, nematoda and nematomorpha Phylum entoprocta Phylum ectoprocta, classes gymnolaemata and phylactolaemata Phylum phoronida Phylum braciopoda, classes inarticulata and articulata Phylum mollusca molluscs classes amphineura, monoplacophora, gastropoda, scaphopoda, pelecypoda, and cephalopoda Phylum sipunculida Phylum echiurida Phylum annelida, classes polychaeta, oligochaeta and hirudinea Phylum onychophora Phylum tardigrada Phylum pentastomida Phylum arthropoda, subphylum trylobita, subphylum chelicerata classes xiphosura, arachmida, pycnogomida, subphylum mandibulata classes crustacea, chilopoda, diplopoda, pauropoda, symphyla, insecta of the orders collembola, protura, diplura, thysanura, ephemerida, odonata, orthoptera, dermaptera, embiania, plecoptera, zoraptera, corrodentia, mallophaga, anoplura, thysasnoptera, hemiptera, neuroptera, coleoptera, hymenoptera, mecoptera, siphonaptera, diptera, trichoptera and lepidoptera those of the SectionDeuterostomia, phylum chaetognatha, phylum echinodermata, classes crinoidea, asterordea, ophiuroidea, echinoidea, and holoturoidea, phylum pogonophora phylum hemichordata, classes enteropneusta, and pterobranchia phylum chordata, subphylum urochordata, classes ascidiaciae, thaliaceae, larvacea subphylum cephalochordata, subphylum vertebrata, classes agnatha, chondrichthyes, osteichthyes subclass saccopteiygii orders crossopterygii and dipnoi , amphibia, repitilia, aves and mammalia, subclass prototheria, subclass theria, orders marsupialia, insectivora, dermoptera, chiroptera, primates, edentata, pholidota, lagomorpha, rodentia, cetaceae, carnivora, tubulidentata, probosicdea, hyracoidea, sirenia, perissodactyla and artiodactyla. It is understood that beyond the order, the organisms are still classified according to their families, tribes, genus and species, and even subspecies, infrasubspecific taxons, and strains or individuals. In addition, cell cultures plant or animal , as well as viruses can also be identified. These classifications are used in this application for illustrative purposes only, and are not to be taken as exclusive.The organism is either known or unknown, most commonly the organism is an unknown being identified. Functionally, for the purposes of this invention, it is convenient to divide all organisms into the eukaryotes and the prokaryotes. When identifying a prokaryotic organism, the DNA to be endonuclease digested is that present in the cells or in the non compartmentalized chromosomes. When identifying a eukaryotic organism one may either use the nuclear DNA or the organelle DNA mitochondrial DNA or chloroplast DNA , and endonucleasedigest the same. Briefly, high molecular weight DNA and or small circular DNAs are isolated from the organism to be identified in order to analyze the rRNA gene sequences and possibly sequences that could be used to create a taxon below the rank of species or infrasubspecific subdivisions. The DNA s are extracted by methods which are well known to the art. The DNA s are cut at specific sites into fragments, by restriction endonucleases. The fragments are separated according to size by a standard chromatographic system, such as gel electrophoresis. The gels are stained, as is otherwise well known in the art, and standardized as to the fragment sizes using standards curves constructed with fragments of known sizes. The separated fragments are then transferred to cellulose nitrite paper by the Southern blot technique Southern,E.M., Journal of Molecular Biology, 38 503 517 1975 , herein incorporated by reference , and covalently bound thereto by heating. The fragments containing the rRNA gene sequences are then located, by their capacity to hybridize with a nucleic acid probe containing rRNA information. The nucleic acid probe can either be nonradioactively labeled or preferably radioactively labeled. When radioactively labeled, the probe can be ribosomal RNA rRNA , or radioactively labeled DNA which is complementary to ribosomal RNA rRNA cDNA , either synthesized by reverse transcription or contained on a cloned fragment, which can be labeled, for example, by nick translation. The probe is derived from an arbitrarily chosen organism, see infra. Once hybridization has occurred, the hybridized fragments are detected by selectively detecting double stranded nucleic acid non radiolabeled probe , or visualized by, e.g., autoradiography radiolabeled probe . The size of each fragment which has been hybridized is determined from the distance traveled using standard curves as described previously.The amount of hybridization, the pattern of hybridization, and the size of the hybridized fragments can be used individually or in conjunction to identify the organism. The pattern that emerges from this hybridization can be readily compared to equivalent chromatographic patterns derived from at least two and up to a multiplicity of known, standard organisms, genera or species. After a preliminary broad classification has already been carried out using, for example, classical taxonomy , the comparison can be either by visual inspection and matching of appropriate chromatographic patterns, by comparison of nucleic acid fragment sizes, by band intensity amount of hybridization or by any combination thereof. Ideally, the comparison is carried out with a one dimensional computer based pattern recognition system, such as those used in point of sale transactions. The present inventor discovered that when using the aforementioned method, the chromatographic patterns for organisms of the same species are substantially similar, with minor variations allowed for intraspecies differences due to strain variations, whereas differences between species, and differences between genera and higher classifications are maximal. The use of enzyme specific fragment variations in strains of a species even permits the typing of strains for various purposes e.g. in the case of bacteria, for epidemiological purposes. In fact, restriction enzymes can be chosen for their ability to distinguish strains within species. The probe organism used in the present invention, and from which is obtained the nucleic acid probe, can also be any of the aforementioned organisms it can be either eukaryotic or prokaryotic. The only limitation is given by the fact that the rRNA containing probe should hybridize maximally with the endonuclease digest of the unknown organism s DNA. There are four types of ribosomal RNA informationcontaining probes 1 prokaryotic ribosomal probe especially bacterial derived rRNA , 2 eukaryotic mitochondrial ribosomal probe, 3 eukaryotic chloroplast ribosome probe, and 4 eukaryotic non organelle ribosomal probe. There are also four sources of DNA to be endonuclease digested 1 prokaryotic cellular DNA, 2 eukaryotic mitochondrial DNA, 3 eukaryotic chloroplast DNA, and 4 eukaryotic nuclear DNA. The following hybridization table can thus be constructed Table 1 . Table 1 Hybridization Table Ribosomal ProbeUnknown organism DNA Prokaryotic Eukaryotic Mito Chloro Non chondrial plast organelleProkaryotic Eu. l Mitochondria Eu. Chloroplast Eu. Nuclear 2 1 Eu Eukaryotic 2 refers to less effective hybridization, seeExample 4, infra. The table shows which ribosomal RNA probes can be maximally hybridized with which unknown DNA. For example1 one can identify a eukaryotic organism by extracting species specific mitochondrial or chloroplastDNA, endonuclease digesting it and hybridizing the digest with either a prokaryotic ribosomal RNA probe, or with an organelle derived eukaryotic ribosomal probe. In the same manner, one can identify a prokaryotic organism by extracting species specific cellular DNA, endonuclease digesting it, and hybridizing the digest with either a prokaryotic ribosomal RNA probe, or an organelle derived eukaryotic ribosomal RNA probe. Also, one can identify a eukaryotic organism by extracting and digesting speciesspecific nuclear DNA, and hybridizing it with a nonorganelle derived eukaryotic ribosomal probe.Eukaryotes could be defined by one or any combination of the nuclear, mitochondria, or in some cases chloroplast systems. These cross hybridizations are based on the previously mentioned fact that rRNA nucleic acid derived from eukaryotic organelles has extensive homology with prokaryotic rRNA nucleic acid, but that the same homologies are not present to such extent between nuclear derived eukaryotic DNA and prokaryotic DNA. In essence, because the genetic code is universal, because all cells eukaryotic or prokaryotic require ribosomes to translate the information of the code into protein, and because ribosomal RNA is highly conserved, there are sufficient homologies between the crosshybridizing elements on Table 1 to assure that the method will work as indicated. The choice of any pair of DNA to be digested and accompanying ribosomal probe is arbitrary, and will depend on the organism being identified, i.e. it will depend on the question asked. For example, in detecting a prokaryotic species e.g. bacteria present in a eukaryotic cell e.g. animal or plant for purposes of detecting and identifying an infecting agent, one may choose a prokaryotic ribosomal probe and work under conditions where organelle derived DNA is not extracted or, only minimally extracted. In this manner one assures that interference between organelle derived DNA and prokaryotic DNA is minimal. In identifying a eukaryotic species which is not infected with a prokaryote with a prokaryotic ribosomal probe, it is best to maximize the concentration of organelle derived DNA, as for example by separating organelles from nuclei, and then extracting only organelle DNA.If one wishes to identify a eukaryotic organism which has been infected with a prokaryotic organism, it is best to use a non organelle, non prokaryotic derived ribosomal probe since it will not hybridize well with the DNA from the prokaryote. It is preferred to use a pair DNA and ribosomal probe from the same kingdom, or same subkingdom, or same section, or same phylum, or same subphylum, or same class, or same subclass, or same order, or same family or same tribe or same genus. It is particularly preferred to use prokaryotic ribosomal probe e.g. bacterial ribosomal probe to hybridize with prokaryotic DNA. In this manner one could detect, quantify, and identify genera, species, and strains of prokaryotic organisms.One of the most preferred prokaryotic ribosomal probes is derived from bacteria and further, because of the ease and availability, from E. coli. The ribosomal probe fromE. coli can be used to identify any organism, especially any prokaryotic organism, most preferably any bacterial genera, species or strains. Another particularly preferred embodiment is to use eukaryotic ribosomal probe derived from a given class to identify eukaryotic organisms of the same class e.g. mammalian ribosomal probe to identify mammalian organism . Most preferred is to use ribosomal probe and DNA from the same subclass and or order and or family of organisms, e.g. if identifying a species of mouse, it is preferred to use mouse derived ribosomal probe . The most sensitive and useful pair systems are those where there is less evolutionary distance or diversity between the source of the ribosomal probe and restrictedDNA. The individual steps involved in the technique are generally known in the art. They will be described hereinafter broadly with referece to both eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells when applicable, or specifically for each type of cell if some difference in technique exists. The first step is extraction of the DNA from the unknown organisms. Nuclear DNA from eukaryotic cells can be selectively extracted by standard methodology wellknown to the art see for example, Drohan, W. et al,Biochem. Biophys. Acta, 521 1978 , 1 15, herein incorporated by reference . Because organelle DNA is small and circular, spooling techniques serve to separate the non circular nuclear DNA from the circular, organelle derived DNA. As a corollary, the non spooled material contains the organelle derived DNA which can separately be isolated by density gradient centrifugation. Alternatively, mitochondria or chloroplasts are separated from a mixture of disrupted cells the purified mitochondrial or chloroplast fraction is used for the preparation of organelle derivedDNA while the purified nuclear fraction is used to prepare nuclear DNA. See for example Bonen L. and Gray,M. W., Nucleic Acids Research, 8 319 335 1980 . Prokaryotic DNA extraction is also well known in the art. Thus, for example, an unknown bacterium present in any medium, such as an industrial fermentation suspension, agar medium, plant or animal tissue or sample or the like, is treated under well known conditions designed to extract high molecular weight DNA therefrom. For example, cells of the unknown organism can be suspended in extraction buffer, lysozyme added thereto, and the suspension incubated. Cell disruption can be further accelerated by addition of detergents, and or by increase in temperature. Protease digestion followed by chloroform phenol extraction and ethanol precipitation can be used to finalize the extraction ofDNA. An alternative method of extraction, which is much faster than phenol chloroform extraction, is rapid isolation of DNA using ethanol precipitation.This method is preferably used to isolate DNA directly from colonies or small, liquid cultures. The method is described in Davis, R. W. et al A Manual for GeneticEngineering, Advanced Bacterial Genetics, hereinafter Davis , Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold SpringHarbor, New York, 1980, pp. 120 121, herein incorporated by reference. The DNA prokaryotic or eukaryotic nuclear or nonnuclear is dissolved in physiological buffer for the next step. Digestion of extracted DNA is carried out with restriction endonuclease enzymes. Any restriction endonuclease enzyme can be used, provided of course that it is not from the same organism species as that being identified, since otherwise, the DNA may remain intact. This may, in any event, identify the organism, since the enzymes are not expected to cut DNA from the species of their origin. Since the organism species being characterized may be unknown, obtaining a digest of fragments may entail a minimum amount of trial and error, which can routinely be carried out by those skilled in the art without undue experimentation. Examples of possible restriction endonuclease enzymes are Bgl I, BamHI, EcoR I, Pst I, Hind III, Bal I, Hga I, Sal I, Xba I,Sac I, Sst I, Bcl I, Xho I, Kpn I, Pvu II, Sau IIIa, or the like. See also Davis, supra, at pp. 228 230, herein incorporated by reference. A mixture of one or more endonucleases can also be used for the digestion.Normally, DNA and endonuclease are incubated together in an appropriate buffer for an appropriate period of time ranging from 1 to 48 hours, at temperatures ranging from 25 C 65 C, preferably 37 C . The resulting chromatographic pattern will depend on the type or types of endonucleases utilized, and will be endonuclease specific. It is therefore necessary to note which enzyme or enzymes have been used for the digestion since the comparative patterns used in the catalog should have been prepared using the same enzyme or enzymes. After endonuclease digestion, the incubation mixture, which contains fragments of varying sizes, is separated thereinto by an appropriate chromatographic method. Any method which is capable of separating nucleic acid digests according to size, and which allows the eventual hybridization with the nucleic acid probe, can be used. Preferred is gel electrophoresis, most preferred is agarose gel electrophoresis. In this system, the DNA digests are normally electrophoresed in an appropriate buffer, the gels are normally immersed in an ethidium bromide solution, and placed on a W light box to visualize standard marker fragments which may have been added. After separation and visualization, the DNA fragments are transferred onto nitrocellulose filter paper by the method of Southern Journal of MolecularBiology, 38 503 517 1975 . The transfer can be carried out after denaturation and neutralization steps, and is usually done for long periods of time approximately 1020 hours or, alternatively by means of an electrically driven transfer from gel to paper. Instruments used to accelerate the transfer from gel to paper are commercially available. The receiving nitrocellulose filter papers are then normally baked at high temperatures 60 80 C for several hours, to bind the DNA to the filter. The probe utilized for the hybridization of the paper bound DNA digest fragments is a nucleic acid probe preferably from a given well defined organism. It may be detectably labeled or non labeled, preferably detectably labeled. In such case, it is either detectably labeled ribosomal RNA rRNA from such organism, nick translated labeled DNA probes containing ribosomal information, cloned DNA probes containing ribosomal information, or detectably labeled DNA which is complementary to the ribosomal RNA from the probe organism rRNAcDNA .Depending on the choice of pair, the ribosomal probe may be from a prokaryote, or from a eukaryote cytoplasmderived, or organelle derived . Most preferably, the detectable label is a radioactive label such as radioactive phosphorus e.g., 32p, 3H or 14C . The nucleic acid probe may also be labeled with metal atoms. For example, uridine and cytidine nucleotides can form covalent mercury derivatives. Mercurated nucleoside t riphosphates are good substrates for many nucleic acid polymerases, including reverse transcriptase Dale et al,Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 70 22382242, 1973 . Direct covalent mercuration of natural nucleic acids has been described. Dale et al,Biochemistry 14 2447 2457 . Reannealing properties of mercurated polymers resemble those of the corresponding nonmercurated polymers Dale and Ward, Biochemistry 14 2458 2469 .Metal labelled probes can be detected, for example, by photo acoustic spectroscopy, x ray spectroscopy, e.g., x ray fluorescence, x ray absorbance, or photon spectroscopy. The isolation of rRNA from eukaryotes or prokaryotes is well known in the art. For example, to prepare rRNA from eukaryotic cytoplasmic ribosomes, RNA can be extracted from whole cells or ribosomes, separated by sucrose gradient centrifugation, and the 18S and 28S fractions can be collected using known molecular weight markers. See for example, Perry, R. P. and Kelly, D.E., Persistent Synthesis of 5S RNA When Production of 28S and 18S Ribosomal RNA is Inhibited by Low Doses ofActinomycin D, J. Cell. Physiol., 72 235 246 1968 , herein incorporated by reference . As a corollary, organelle derived rRNA is isolated and purified from the organelle fractions in the same manner see e.g. VanEtten, R. A. et al, Cell, 22 157 170 1980 , or Edwards,K. et al, Nucleic Acids Research, 9 2853 2869 1981 . If radioactively labeled ribosomal RNA probe is used, the same is isolated from the probe organism after growth or cultivation of the organism with nutrients or in culture media containing appropriately radioactive compounds. When the probe is complementary DNA rRNA cDNA , the same is prepared by reverse transcribing isolated rRNA from the probe organism, in the presence of radioactive nucleoside triphosphates e.g., 32p, nucleosides ot 3H nucleosides . The labeled ribosomal probe may also be a nick translated DNA molecule, especially one obtained from organelle derived whole circular DNA. In this embodiment, chloroplast or mitochondrial circular DNA is nick translated in the presence of radiolabel, and a labeled DNA ribosomal probe is thereby obtained. The chloroplast labeled probe will hybridize best with chloroplast DNA, and the mitochondrial labeled probe will hybridize best with mitochondrial DNA. The chloroplast or mitochondrial nick translated labeled ribosomal probe will hybridize second best with mitochondrial or chloroplast DNA it will also hybridize, albeit in less favorable fashion, with whole plant or animal DNA. The ribosomal probe may also be obtained from eukaryotic nuclear DNA by nick translation, although practical considerations would rule against this mode. A more useful approach in this embodiment is to cut out rRNA genes from the nuclear eukaryotic DNA by restriction enzymes , separate the fragments, identify the ribosomal gene sequences as by hybridization , and isolate the ribosomal gene sequences as by electrophoresis . The isolated rRNA sequences may then be recombined into a plasmid or vector, and after transformation of an appropriate host, cloned in 32P containing media.Alternatively, the transformed host is grown, and the DNA is then isolated and labeled by nick translation or theDNA is isolated, the rRNA sequences are cut out and then labeled. The resulting ribosomal probe will hybridize in the same instances as rRNAcDNA see infra . The preferred nucleic acid probe is radioactively labeled DNA complementary to rRNA from the probe organism. In this embodiment, rRNA is purified from the probe organism by isolating the ribosomes and separating and substantially purifying therefrom the appropriate RNA as described supra. The ribosomal RNA is thus ribosomefree and is also substantially free of other RNA s such as transfer RNA tRNA or messenger RNA mRNA .Prokaryotic rRNA normally contains three subspecies the so called 5S, 16S and 23S fragments. The reverse transcription into cDNA can be carried out with a mixture of all three, or alternatively, with a mixture of 16S and 23S fragments. It is less preferred to carry out the reverse transciption with only one of the components, although under certain conditions this may be feasible.Eukaryotic rRNA normally contains two subspecies 18S and 28S, and the reverse transcription into cDNA can be carried out with a mixture of 18S and 28S fragments or with each. The pure rRNA, substantially free of other types ofRNA, is incubated with any reverse transcriptase capable of reverse transcribing it into cDNA, preferably with reverse transcriptase from avian myeloblastosis virus AMV in the presence of a primer such as calf thymus DNA hydrolysate. The mixture should contain appropriate deoxynucleoside triphosphates, wherein at least one of said nucleosides is radioactively labeled, for example with 32p. For example1 deoxycytidine 51 32P , deoxythymidine 5 32p , deoxyadenine s1 32P , or deoxyguanidine 5. 32p triphosphates can be used as the radioactive nucleosides.After incubation, from 30 minutes to 5 hours at 250C 400C, extraction with chloroform and phenol, and centrifugation as well as chromatography, the radioactively labeled fractions are pooled, and constitute the cDNA probe. The radioactively labeled cDNA probe in substantially purified form, i.e., free of non labeled molecules, free of cDNA which is complementary to other types of RNA, free of proteinaceous materials as well as free of cellular components such as membranes, organelles and the like, also constitutes an aspect of the present invention. A preferred probe is prokaryotic labelled rRNAcDNA, most preferred being the bacterial labelled rRNAcDNA.The probe species can be any bacterial microorganism, such as those of the family Enterobacteriaceae, Brucella,Bacillus, Pseudomonas, Lactobacillus, Haemophilus,Microbacterium, Vibrio, Neisseria, Bactroides and other anaerobic groups, Legionella, and the like. Although the prokaryotic examples in the present application are limited to the use of E. coli as a bacterial prokaryotic probe organism, this aspect of the invention is by no means limited to this microorganism. The use of cDNA in radioactively labeled form as the probe is preferred to the use of radioactively labeled ribosomal RNA becauseDNA has greater stability during hybridization. It is important to recognize that the labeled cDNA probe should be a faithful copy of the rRNA, i.e. be one wherein all nucleotide sequences of the template rRNA are transcribed each time the synthesis is carried out. The use of a primer is essential in this respect. That the cDNA is a faithful copy can be demonstrated by the fact that it should have two properties following hybridization 1. The cDNA should protect 100 of labeled rRNA from ribonuclease digestion and 2. The labeled cDNA should specifically anneal to the rRNA as shown by resistance to S1 nuclease. Beljanski M. M. et al, C.R. Acad. Sc Paris t 286,Serie D. p. 1825 1828 1978 , describe 3H radioactively labeled cDNA derived from E. coli rRNA. The cDNA in this work was not prepared with reverse transcriptase in the presence of a primer as in the present invention, but was prepared with a DNA polymerase I, using as a template rRNA which had been pre cleaved using ribonuclease U2.The rRNA digestion product with RNAse U2 of Beljanski et al has a different base ratio than the initial rRNA, indicating a loss of bases and or loss of short fragments. Thus the cDNA obtained therefrom is not a faithful copy. In addition, the use of DNA polymerase I used by Beljanski is known to favor predominance of homopolymeric over heteropolymeric transcription of rRNA see Sarin, P. S. et al, Biochem. Biophys. Res. Comm., 59 202 214 1974 . In sum, the ribosomal probe can be seen as being derived a from genome DNA containing rRNA genes, by cloning and or nick translation, b from ribosomal RNA itself or c from rRNAcDNA by reverse transcription of rRNA. The next step in the process of the invention is the hybridization of the separated DNA digest from the unknown organism with the unlabeled or preferably radioactively labeled rRNA or cDNA probe. Hybridization is carried out by contacting the paper containing covalently labeled DNA digest from the unknown, with a hybridization mix containing the ribosomal probe.Incubation is carried out at elevated temperatures 50 70 C for long periods of time, filter papers are then washed to remove unbound radioactivity if needed , air dried and readied for detection. An alternative, highly preferred hybridization, which is much more rapid than the one described above, is the room temperature phenol emulsion reassociation technique of Kohne, D. E. et al,Biochemistry, 16 5329 5341 1977 , which is herein incorporated by reference. After hybridization, the technique requires selective detection of the appropriately hybridized fragments. This detection can be carried out by taking advantage of the double strandedness of the hybridized fragments and using a selective method therefor for nonlabeled probe , or by autoradiography or by an appropriate radiation scanner which may or may not be computerized, and which may increase the speed of detection for labeled probe . These techniques are well known to those skilled in the art and will not be further described at this point. The end product of the technique is a chromatographic band pattern having light and dark regions of various intensities at specific locations.These locations can be readily matched to specific fragments sizes in kilobase pairs by introduction into the separation technique of a marker, such as EcoR I digested X bacteriophage DNA. In this manner, both the relative position of the bands to each other, as well as the absolute size of each band can be readily ascertained. The band pattern for the unknown is then compared with band patterns present in a catalog or library. The catalog or library can consist of a book containing patterns for at least two, and up to a virtually unlimited number of defined different organisms genera and species. For example, the number of pathologically relevant bacteria that cause human disease is estimated to be about 100, so it is estimated that a standard catalog of pathogenic bacteria would contain anywhere between 50 and 150 such patterns.A catalog of types of bacterial strains for epidemiological typing systems can also be included. The band patterns will depend on the type or types of endonuclease enzymes used, possibly on the particular organism used as the source for the radioactively labeled probe the probe organism , and on the composition of the ribosomal RNA information utilized to prepare the probe e.g. containing either prokaryotic 5S, 16S or 23S subtypes, or only 16S and 23S, or the like . Thus, the catalog may, for each probe, contain a variety of enzymespecific band patterns, with the size of each band listed, and with the relative intensity noted. As the concentration of the bound DNA bound to the filter decreases, only the most intense bands can be seen, and the size of this band or bands can thus identify species.Each one of these band patterns may in turn comprise a band pattern obtained for complete ribosomalRNA and or a band pattern obtained for ribosomal RNA containing only certain subtypes. Any variation or permutation of the above can of course be used for the library. Additionally, for a eukaryotic organism the library may contain patterns that result from the use of one type of DNA or any combination of organelle and or nuclear DNA. The pattern for each DNA digest will depend on the probe composition. The catalog may be arranged so that if more than one strain or species is present in the extracted sample and detected by the probe, the resulting pattern can be interpreted. A user can either compare the obtained band pattern visually, or by aid of a one dimensional, computer assisted, digital scanner programmed for recognition of patterns. These computer scanners are well known in the art of the time of sale transactions the commonly utilized supermarket check out pattern readers .Ideally, the library or catalog is present in a computer memory both in terms of the relative band patterns for a plurality of organisms, and in terms of the absolute values of molecular weight or size of the fragments. The catalog comparison then consists of matching the unknown pattern with one of the patterns present in the library by means of either one or both of the stored information elements relative patterns and or absolute size elements . The intensity of each band when compared to a standard can also reveal the amount of bound DNA hybridized, and thus can be used to estimate the extent of the presence of an organism, for example a prokaryote in a eukaryote. If a user wishes to further confirm the nature and identification of a given organism, such user can digest the unknown with a second, different endonuclease, and compare the resulting band pattern to catalog band patterns of the organism for the second chosen endonuclease. This process can be repeated as many times as necessary to get an accurate identification.Normally, however, a single analysis with a single probe would be sufficient in most instances. The present invention and its variations can be used for a myriad of applications. It may be used by plant or animal breeders to correctly identify their subjects, or it may be used by clinical and microbiological laboratories to identify bacteria, parasites or fungi present in any medium, including in eukaryotic cells. In this latter use, the method is preferred to the standard microbiological assays, since it does not require isolation and growth of the microbes. In vitro growth and characterization is now either impossible for some microorganisms such as Mycobacterium leprae agent of leprosy , impossible on standard media for some microorganisms such as the obligate intracellular bacteria e.g. rickettsia, chlamydia, etc , or highly dangerous e.g. B anthracis agent of anthrax .The present method depends on the isolation of nucleic acid and avoids these problems since it avoids conventional bacterial isolation and characterization. The method is expected to detect microorganisms that have not yet been conventionally described. In addition, the present method allows distinguishing different strains of species, and this can be useful, for example, for epidemiological typing in bacteriology. The method can be used by forensic laboratories to correctly and unambiguously identify plant or animal tissues in criminal investigations. It can also be used by entomologists to quickly identify insect species, when ascertaining the nature of crop infestations. In addition, upon the conjunction of the method with the identification of infrasubspecific taxons such as e.g., nitrogenase genes in plant roots, see Hennecke, H.291 Nature 354 1981 , the methodology can be utilized to search for and identify the genotypes of individual strains. The method of this invention is preferably used for the identification of microorganisms wherever they may be found. These microorganisms may be found in physiological as well as non physiological materials.They may be found in industrial growth media1 culture broths, or the like, and may be concentrated for example by centrifugation. Preferably, the microorganisms are found in physiological media, most preferably they are found in animal sources infected therewith. In this latter embodiment, the method is used to diagnose bacterial infections in animals, most preferably in humans. The detection and identification of bacterialDNA with a prokaryotic ribosomal probe is highly selective and occurs without hindrance, even in the presence of animal, e.g., mammalian DNA. If a prokaryotic ribosomal probe is used, conditions can be selected which minimize hybridization with mitochondrialDNA, or mitochondrial bands can be subtracted from the pattern. The technique can thus be used in clinical laboratories, bacterial depositories, industrial fermentation laboratories, and the like. Of particular interest is the possibility of detecting, in addition to the species and strain identity of the infecting microorganism, the presence, in the microorganism of any specific genetic sequences. For example, it is possible to detect the presence of antibiotic resistance sequences found on R factors, transmissible plasmids mediating drug resistance. One can add labeled R factor DNA or cloned labeled antibiotic resistance sequences to the hybridization mixture in order to correctly determine the antibiotic resistance of the organism, an extra band or bands would appear , or one can rehybridize the once hybridized filter in the presence of added antibiotic resistance sequence probe or probes. Alternatively one could separate the unknown DNA into aliquots, and test the first aliquot for identification, the second for the presence of drug resistance sequences, the third for toxin genes, etc.Alternatively, one could use ribosomal probe labeled with one radionuclide e.g. 32p in a hybridization mixture with added R factor probe labeled with a different radionuclide e.g. 3H or 14C . After hybridization, the presence of R factor DNA in the unknown DNA can be tested by scanning with two different scanners one for species and strain identification e.g. 32p , the other for drug resistance, or the like e.g. 3H or 14C . In this manner the lab can, without isolating and characterizing the microorganism, identify the genus and species, type the strain and test for drug resistance, possible toxin production or any other character or taxon below the rank of species that can be detected with a labeled nucleic acid sequence or probe, all in one experiment. The R factors are universal and cross species boundaries, so that identification can be carried out in any bacterial genus or species with the same R factor probe see Tomkins, L. S. et al, J. Inf. Dis., 141 625636 1981 . In addition, the presence of viruses or virusrelated sequences in eukaryotes or prokaryotes can also be detected and identified in conjunction with the method of the invention Any of the viruses described in Manual of Clinical Microbiology2, 3d edition, edited byLennette, E.H., Amer. Soc. Microb., 1980, 774 778 can be identified, eq. picornaviridae, caliciviridae, reoviridae, togaviridae, orthomyxoviridae, paramyxoviridae, rhabdoviridae, retroviridae, arenaviridae, coronaviridae, bunyaviridae, parvoviridae, papovaviridae, adenoviridae, herpesviridae, vidoviridae and poxviridae. 1 When the viral genome is integrated into host DNA as with DNA viruses, for example members of Papovaviridae, and RNA viruses, for example, members of Retroviridae , high molecular weight DNA is extracted from the tissue and digested with restriction endonucleases.The overall procedure is the same as used for bacteria. The choice of a viral probe again depends on the question asked, and on the extent of homology between the probe virus and the viral related sequences to be detected. In order to have suitable sequence homology, it may be necessary that the probe and tissue sequences are related to the same family, genus, or species of virus. In addition to the extent of conserved sequences, whether or not a viral probe hybridizes to viral related sequences in host DNA may be determined by the hybridization conditions, which can be stringent or relaxed. The result of the hybridization will be a band or a pattern of bands showing that there are viral sequences incorporated into the host DNA. This information may be useful in helping to predict the occurrence of cancer.The probe can be any labelled complementary nucleic acid probe including cloned viral sequences. For RNA viruses, for example viral RNA can be used to make a DNA with reverse transcriptase for DNA viruses, for example, viral DNA labelled by nick translation can be used. Again multiple probes can be used, especially with different labels. Same general features apply equally to DNA and RNA viruses. Viral genomes are relatively small, so the precipitated nucleic acid is preferably collected by centrifugation all of the procedures can use the total nucleic acid or the various procedures can be run separately. It is expected that viral nucleic acid can be concentrated by spooling cellular DNA to remove it before centrifugation. This can also be used to determine if the viral genome is integrated. For the viral probe to hybridize, it may be necessary and at least most preferred that the probe be from the same family, genus, or species as the unknown.Reaction conditions, stringent or relaxed, may determine whether or not a given probe hybridizes a distantly related genome. The probe may be cloned viral sequences that are labeled, or may be the complete genome or a portion of it. The technique described by Southern, supra is useful for the transfer of large DNA fragments greater than about 0.5 kilobases to nitrocellulose paper after alkali denaturation. This technique might be useful for DNA viruses but not for RNA viruses. RNA has been transferred and covalently coupled to activated cellulose paper diazobenzyloxymethyl paper , and this can be used for RNA viruses. The modification of the Southern technique by Thomas Thomas, P., Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci.,USA, 77 5201 5205 1980 can be used for the efficient transfer of RNA, and small DNA fragments to nitrocellulose paper for hybridization. RNA and smallDNA fragments are denatured with glyoxal and dimethyl sulfoxide, and electrophoresed in agarose gel.This procedure transfers DNA fragments between 100 and 2000 nucleotides and RNA efficiently, and they are retained on the nitrocellulose paper during hybridization. This is useful for small ribosomal DNA fragments as well. So it is most preferred to divide the restriction enzyme digested specimen and denature the nucleic acid in one portion with glyoxal. The Southern and Thomas procedures would yield a maximum amount of information. 2 For DNA viruses, restriction analysis can be carried out with double stranded DS viral DNA s to identify viruses present. Single stranded SS DNA viruses will have different genome lengths. The probe the sequence information could be converted to DS DNA that hybridizes, the hybridized fragment pattern and or the sizes or size can be used to identify viruses. There are again a number of ways to obtain complementary nucleic acid probes. For example, for DS DNA nicktranslation can be used for SS DNA, DNA polymerase can be used to synthesize a cDNA. 3 For RNA viruses, RNA is not digested by restriction endonucleases the sequence information could be converted to DS DNA . The genomes of different RNA viruses are of different sizes, and some RNA viruses have more than 1 molecule in their genome. This, along with the base sequences detected by certain probes or pooled probes allows the RNA viruses to be identified. An example of a probe would be cDNA synthesized using viralRNA. When searching for infectious agents in specimens it is possible to search directly by extracting nucleic acid from the specimen, or by culturing first in media or cells to increase the number of agents, or by using a concentration step such as centrifugation or trying all approaches. The present invention lends itself readily to the preparation of kits containing the elements necessary to carry out the process. Such a kit may comprise a carrier being compartmentalized to receive in close confinement therein one or more container means, such as tubes or vials. One of said container means may contain unlabeled or detectably labeled nucleic acid probe, such as for example the radioactively labeled cDNA to ribosomal RNA from the organism probe, preferably prokaryotic rRNAcDNA in the case of a kit to identify bacteria . The labeled nucleic acid probe may be present in lyophilized form, or in an appropriate buffer as necessary. One or more container means may contain one or more endonuclease enzymes to be utilized in digesting the DNA from the unknown organism. These enzymes may be present by themselves or in admixtures, in lyophilized form or in appropriate buffers. Ideally, the enzymes utilized in the kit are those for which corresponding catalogs have been prepared. Nothing stops the user, however, from preparing his or her own comparative standard at the moment of experiment. Thus, if a user suspects that an unknown is in fact of a given genus or species, he or she may prepare the band pattern for the known and compare it with the band pattern for the unknown. The kit may thus also contain all of the elements necessary in order to carry out this subprocess. These elements may include one or more known organisms, such as bacteria , or isolated DNA from known organisms.In addition, the kit may also contain a catalog , defined broadly as a booklet, or book, or pamphlet, or computer tape or disk, or computer access number, or the like, having the chromatographic band patterns for a variety of organisms of a certain group, such as plant species, mammal species, microbe species, especially pathologically important bacteria, insect species or the like. In this mode, a user would only need to prepare the band pattern for the unknown organism, and then visually or by computer compare the obtained pattern with the patterns in the catalog. The kit may also contain in one container probe rRNA for probe synthesis, in another container radiolabeled deoxyribonucleoside triphosphate, and in another container primer. In this manner the user can prepare his or her own probe rRNA cDNA. Finally, the kit may contain all of the additional elements necessary to carry out the technique of the invention, such as buffers, growth media, enzymes, pipettes, plates, nucleic acids, nucleoside triphosphates, filter paper, gel materials, transfer materials, autoradiography supplies, and the like. It may also contain antibiotic resistance sequence probes, viral probes, or other specific character probes. Having now generally described this invention, the same will be better understood by reference to certain specific examples which are included herein for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to be limiting of the invention, unless specified. MATERIALS AND METHODSA. BacterialExtraction of High Molecular Weight DNA Bacterial broth cultures were centrifuged and the cells were washed with cold saline. The cells were suspended in a volume measured in ml of extraction buffer 0.15 M sodium chloride, 0.1 M EDTA, 0.03 M tris pH 8.5 approximately 10 times the gram weight of the packed cells. Lysozyme at 10 mg ml was added to 0.5 m ml final concentration. The suspension was incubated at 370C for 30 minutes Cell disruption w completed by the addition of 25 sodium dodecyl sulphate SDS to 2.5 final concentration, and raising the tempmrature to 60 C for 10 minutes.After cooling in a tap water bath, mercaptoethanol was added to 1 final concentration. Pronaset a commer cially available mixture of proteolytic enzymes at 20 mg ml in 0.02 M tri pH 7.4 was predigested at 370C for 2 hours and then added to 1mg ml final concentration. The solution was incubated at 37 C for 18 hours. Phenol was prepared by mixing one liter redistilled phenol, 2.5 liters double distilled water, 270 ml saturated Tris base, 12 ml mercaptoethanol, and EDTA to 10 final concentration and allowing the mixture to separate at 40C. The phenol was washed with wash buffer 10 1M sodium chloride, 10 3M EDTA, 10mM tris pH 8.5 . Then an equal volume of fresh buffer was added.Mercaptoethnaol was added to 0.1 final concentration. The solution was mixed and stored at 4 0C. One half volume prepared Phenol and one half volume chloroform was added to the lysed cell solution.This was shaken for approximately 10 minutes and centrifuged at 3,400 x g for 15 minutes. The aqueous phase was removed with an inverted 25 ml glass pipette.The extraction procedure was repeated until there was little precipitate at the interface. One ninth volume 2N sodium acetate pH 5.5 was added to the aqueous phase.Two times volume of 95 ethyl alcohol at 200C was poured slowly down the side of the flask. The end of a Pasteur pipette was melted close and used to spool the precipitated DNA. High molecular weight DNA was dissolved in buffer 10 3EDTA, 10 2M tris pH 7.4 . The concentration of DNA was determined by absorbance at 260 nm using 30 micrograms per absorbance unit as conversion factor.Restriction Endonuclease Digestion of DNA. EcoR I restriction endonrclease reactions were performed in 0.1 M tris HCl pH 7.5, 0.05 M NaCl, 0.005 M MgC12, and 100 micrograms per ml bovine serum albumin.EcoR I reaction mixtures contained 5 units of enzyme per microgram of DNA, and were incubated four hours at 37 C. PST I restriction endonuclease reactions were performed in 0.006 M tris HC1 pH 7.4, 0.05 M sodium chloride, 0.006 M magnesium chloride, 0.006 M 2mercaptoethanol, and 100 micrograms per ml of bovine serum albumin. PST I reaction mixtures contained 2 units of enzyme per microgram DNA, and were incubated four hours at 370 C. Usually 10 micrograms DNA was digested in a final volume of 40 microliters. Ten times concentration buffers were added. Sterile distilled water was added depending on the volume of DNA.X Bacteriophage DNA was restricted with EcoR I to provide marker bands for fragment size determinations. Usually 2 micrograms X DNA was digested with 20 units EcoR I in a final volume of 20 microliters.Gel Electrophoresis and DNA Transfer. DNA digests were supplemented with glycerol, to about 20 , and bromophenol blue tracking dye. In the case of X DNA digests, 20 microliters of lx EcoR I buffer was added to each 20 microliter reaction mixture.Usually 15 microliters 758 glycerol and 5 microliters 0.58 bromophenol blue were added to each 40 microliter reaction mixture. 10 micrograms digested bacterial DNA or 2 micrograms digested X DNA were loaded per well and overlaid with molten agarose. Digests were electrophoresed in 0.8 agarose with 0.02 M sodium acetate, 0.002 M EDTA, 0.018 M tris base, and 0.028 M tris HC1 pH 8.05 at 35 V until the dye migrated 13 to 16 cm. Gels were then immersed in ethidium bromide 0.005 mg ml and placed on a W light box to visualize the X fragments. DNA was transferred to nitrocellulose filter paper by the method of Southern, supra. Gels were treated with denaturing solution 1.5 M sodium chloride, 0.5 M sodium hydroxide on a rocker table for 20 min. Denaturing solution was replaced with neutralization solution 3.0 M sodium chloride, 0.5 M tris HCl, pH 7.5 , and after 40 minutes the gels were checked with pH paper.Following neutralization, the gels were treated with 6 x SSC buffer SSC 0.15 M sodium chloride, 0.015 M sodium citrate for 10 minutes. DNA fragments were transferred from the gel to the nitrocellulose paper by drawing 6 X SSC through the gel and nitrocellulose paper with a stack of paper towels for 15 hours. Filters were placed between two sheets of 3 MM chromatography paper, wrapped in aluminum foil, shiny side out, and dried in a vacuum oven at 800C for 4 hours. Synthesis of 32p ribosomal RNA Complementary DNA 32p rRNA cDNA . 32P labeled DNA complementary to E. coli R 13 23S and 16S ribosomal RNA was synthesized using reverse transcriptase from avian myeloblastosis virus AMV . The reaction mixture contained 5 microliters 0.2 M dithiothreithol, 25 microliters 1 M tris pH 8.0, 8.3 microliters 3 M potassium chloride, 40 microliters 0.1 M magnesium chloride, 70 micrograms actinomycin, 14 microliters 0.04 M dATP, 14 microliters 0.04 M dGDP, 14 microliters 0.04 M dTTP and 96.7 microliters H20. The following were added to a plastic tube 137.5 microliters reaction mixture, 15 microliters calf thymus primer 10 mg ml , 7 microliters H 20, 3 microliters rRNA using 40 micrograms OD unit concentration, is 2.76 micrograms microliters , 40 microliters deoxycitydine 5 32p triphosphate 10 mCi ml , and 13 microliters AMV polymerase 6,900 units p1. The enzymatic reaction was incubated 1.5 hours at 370C. hen the solution was extracted in 5 ml each of chloroform and prepared phenol. After centrifugation JS 13,600 RPM , the aqueous phase was layered directly on a Sephadexs G 50 column 1.5 x 22 cm . A plastic 10 ml pipette was used for the column. A small glass bead was placed in the tip, rubber tubing with a pinch clamp was attached, and degassed G 50 swelled in 0.058 SDS overnight was added.The aqueous phase wall allowed to flow directly into theG 50 and was then elated with 0.05 SDS. 20 fractions at 0.5 ml each were collected in plastic vials. Tubes containing peak fractions were detected by Cerenkov counting using a 3H discriminator, counting for 0.1 min.per sample and recording total counts. Peak fractions were pooled. Aliquots were added to Aquesole commercially available , and the CPM of 32p per ml was determined by scintillation counting.Hybridization and Autoradiography. Fragments containing ribosomal RNA gene sequences were detected by autoradiography after hybridization of the DNA on the filters to 32P rRNA cDNA. Filters were soaked in hybridization mix 3 x SSC, 0.18 SDS, 100 micrograms ml denatured and sonicated canine DNA, andDeinhart s solution 0.28 each of bovine serum albumen,Ficoll, and polyvinyl pyrrolidine , for 1 hour at 680 C. 32p rRNA cDNA was added at 4 x 106 CPM ml, and the hybridization reaction was incubated at 680C for 48 hours. Filters were then washed in 3 x SSC, and 0.1 SDS at 15 min. intervals for 2 hours or until the wash solution contained about 3,000 cpm 32P per ml. Filters were air dried, wrapped in plastic wrap and autoradiographed approximately 1 hour with Kodak X OMAT R film at 70 C. B. Mammalian experiments.. Mus musculus domesticus mouse rRNA probes were synthesized from 18S and 28S, and only 28S rRNA. Nucleic acid was extracted from mouse liver and precipitated. High molecular weight DNA was spooled and removed. The remaining nucleic acid was collected by centrifugation and dissolved in buffer, 50 mM MgC12 and 100 mM Tris pH 7.4. DNAse RNAse free was added to a concentration of 50pg ml. The mixture was incubated at 370C for 30 min. The resulting RNA was reeLracted, ethanol precipitated, and dissolved in lmM sodium phosphate buffer pH 6.8 A 5 to 20 sucrose gradient in 0.1M Tris pH 7.4 and 0.01M EDTA was prepared.The sample was added and the gradients spun in an SW40 rotor 7 hr. at 35K RPM. Fractions were collected by optical density. The 183 and 28S fractions were selected by comparison to known molecular weight markers. For all of the mammalian experiments relaxed hybridization conditions were used, 54 C. The washing procedure, carried out at 540 C, was 3 separate washes with 3xSSC with 0.05 SDS for 15 min. each Example 1 Bacterial Species are Defined by Restriction Endonuclease Analysis of Ribosomal RNA Genes The several strains of P. aeruginosa used in this example have the minimal phenotypic characters which identify the species Hugh R.H., et al, in Manual ofClinical Microbiology, 2d Ed. ASM, 1974, pp. 250 269 . Table 2 . Strains of three other Pseudomonas and twoAcinetobacter species were selected to compare species and genera Table 3 . TABLE 2 Corresponding strain numbers of isolates with the minimal phenotypic characters of P. aeruginosa for the comparison of Strains. RH ATCC 151 10752 809 7701 810 8689 811 8707 812 8709 815 10145 1559 14425Strains used for comparison of Pseudomonas andAcinetobacter species are listed in Table 3. TABLE 3 Corresponding strain numbers of type, neotype and reference strains for the comparison of species and generaSpecies RH ATCC NCTC Strain StatusP. aeruginosa 815 10145 10332 typeP. stutzeri 2601 17588 neotypeP. fluorescens 818 13525 10038 neotypeP. putida 827 12633 neotypeA. anitratus 2208 19606 type A. lwoffii 462 7976 reference Acinetobacter species were selected for comparison of genera because they share certain attributes with manyPseudomonas species. The sizes kilobase pairs of fragments in EcoR I digests are P. stutzeri 16.0, 12.0, 9.4 P. fluorescens 16.0, 10.0, 8.6, 7.8, 7.0 P. putida 24.0, 15.0, 10.0, 8.9 A. anitratus 20.0, 15.0, 12.5, 9.8, 7.8, 6.1, 5.2, 4.8, 3.8, 2.8 size of the smallest 3 fragments not calculated A. lwoffii 12.0, 10.0, 9.1, 7.0, 6.4, 5.7, 5.5, 5.3, 4.8, 4.4, 3.6, 3.2, 2.9 size of the smallest 3 fragments not calculated .The sizes kilobase pairs of fragments in PST I digests are P. stutzeri 6.7, 6.1, 5.5 P. fluorescens 10.0, 9.4, 7.8, 7.0 P. putida 10.5, 9.9, 6.8, 6.3, 4.4 A. anitratus 36.0, 28.0, 20.5, 12.0, 10.0, 5.8, 3.7, 2.6, 2.4 A. lwoffi 9.9, 8.7, 7.2, 5.7, 4.0, 3.6, 3.2, 2.7. Comparison of the hybridized restriction fragments from the seven strains of P. aeruginosa leads to the conclusion that this species can be defined by an EcoR I specific set of fragments containing rRNA gene sequences, 10.1, 9.4, 7.6, and 5.9 kilobase pairs KBP FIGURE 1 . The 7.6 KBP EcoR I fragment occurs in 4 of the 7 strains in this sample. An analogous situation occurs among certain phenotypic characters of strains of species. The fact that the EcoR I sets of fragments from the 7 strains can be used to separate the strains into two groups prompts speculation that there may be two species with the minimal phenotypic characters of P.aeruginosa. The results of experiments in which DNA was digested with PST I FIGURE 2 lead to the conclusion that the strain variation shown by the EcoR I 7.6 KBP fragment represents variation within the species, since there is a single conserved set of PST I fragments, 9.4, 7.1, 6.6, and 6.4 KBP, that define the species. The 9.4 and 6.6 KBP Pst I fragments occur in 6 of the 7 strains of P. aeruginosa the 7.1 and 6.4 KBP PST I fragments occur in all of the strains sampled. PST I fragment variation occurs in strains that do not contain an EcoR I 7.6 KBP fragment RH 151 has 10.1 and 8.2 KBP fragments,RH 809 does not contain a 9.4 KBP fragment and has a 6.0KBP fragment, and RH 815 the type strain, does not contain a 6.6 KBP fragment. The patterns of hybridized fragments support the conclusion that enzyme specific, conserved sets can be used to define species.Strains of a species probably have a majority of the fragments in the conserved set. The occurrence of fragment variations in some strains does not prevent identification and may prove useful in epidemiological studies. The occurrence of variation, EcoR I 7.6 KBP fragment in P. aeruginosa strains, may be put into perspective by examining hybridized EcoR I fragments found in the type strains of other Pseudomonas species FIGURE 3 . The type strains of P. stutzeri, P. fluorescens, and P. putida do not contain a 7.6 KBP fragment, but do haveEcoR I fragments of the same size in common P.aeruginosa and P. stutzeri each have a 9.4 KBP fragment,P. stutzeri and P. fluorescens each have a 16 KBP fragment, and P. fluorescens and P. putida each have a 10KBP fragment. In general, the sizes of the fragments are unique in the type strains of each of the 4 Pseudomonas species and the type strain of each species has a different size range of fragments. These general comments are also true for the PST I digests FIGURE 4 . When the fragment patterns of one strain of each of the 4 Pseudomonas and 2 Acinetobacter species are compared, it can be concluded that the species of each genus are similar, but the genera differ. The 2 Acinetobacter species have a greater range of hybridized fragment sizes than do the 4 Pseudomonas species. Without the aid of restriction enzyme maps such as those availble for E. coli. Bacillus thuringiensis and B.subtilis, it is not possible to predict where enzymes cut rRNA genes, the number of copies per genome, whether there are heterologous flanking regions between genes or gene heterogeneity. The E. coli rRNA cDNA probe may fail to hybridize with some restristion fragments containing rRNA gene sequences, and if so, this reflects the evolutionary distance or diversity between the test organism and E. coli. The conserved nature of rRNA can be used to argue that this is not the case. However, this is a minor problem compared to the advantage of having a standard probe that can be equally applied to any unknown species. Example 2 Comparison of Restriction Analysis with DNA DNALiquid Hybridization The strains used in this study are listed in Tables 4 and 5. Table 4 Corresponding Strain Numbers of Neotype strains of B. subtilis and type strains of junior synonyms StrainSpecies RH ATCC StatusB. subtilis 3021 6051 neotypeB. uniflagellatus 2990 15134 typeB. amyloliquafaciens 3051 23350 type Table 5. Corresponding strain number of strains of B. subtilis RH NRRL ATCC 3063 B 354 NRS 231 6633 3064 B 356 NRS 238 7067 3065 NRS 265 6455 3066 NRS 659 7060 3067 NRS 730 7003 3068 NRS 737 943 3069 NRS 741 4344 3070 NRS 773 8188 3071 NRS 1106 4944 3072 NRS 1107 7480 High molecular weight DNA was isolated from each of the strains. Liquid DNA DNA hybridization data was collected using RH 3021 and RH 2990 labeled DNAs and results are shown in Table 6. TABLE 6Percent hybridization between labeledDNA probe and DNA from strains of B. subtilisLabeled DNA probe RH 3063 RH 3064 RH 3066 RH 3067 RH 3068 RH 3065RH 3021 61 77 51 96 84 18RH 2990 12 10 13 15 16 50 RH 3069 RH 3070 RH 3071 RH 3072 RH 3021 RH 2990RH 3021 14 93 15 100 20RH 2990 100 17 100 20 100 RH 3061RH 3021 11RH 2990 70 The data shows there are two hybridization groups.Similar data is reported in the literature for B.subtilis Seki et al, International Journal of Systematic Bacteriology 25 258 270 1975 . These two groups can be represented by RH 3021 and RH 2990. When restriction endonuclease analysis of ribosomal RNA genes is carried out, EcoR I digests FIGURE 5 can be separated into two groups. The group represented by RH 3021 has two intensely hybridized fragments 2.15 and 2.1 KBP . The group represented by RH 2990 has two intensely hybridized fragments 2.6 and 2.5 KBP . The EcoR I data can be used to place B. subtilis strains in appropriateDNA DNA hybridization groups. According to the DNA DNA hybridization 708 rule, B. subtilis is actually two species. However, when the PST I data FIGURE 6 is considered, it is possible to think of the groups as two divergent populations related to a common ancestor or speciation event.The conclusion that B. subtilis is one species correlates with phenotypic data. The strains listed in Table 5 are identified as B. subtilis inGordon, R. E. et al The Genus Bacillus , AgricultureHandbook No. 427, Agricultural Research Service, U.S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D.C. pp. 36 41.Restriction analysis can provide data which is comparable to DNA DNA hybridization data, or by selecting the proper enzyme, restriction analysis can adequately define species despite divergence. RH 3061 has lost PST I sites.However, the EcoR I data suggests that the strain is B.subtilis. The same is concluded from the Bgl II data FIGURE 7 and Sac I data FIGURE 8 . EXAMPLE 3 Stability of the Restriction Analysis Patern and Other Bacillus polymyxa Experiments TABLE 7 Neotype strains of B. subtilis and B. polymyxaSpecies RH ACTT NRRL CommentsB. subtilis 3021 6051 neotypeB. polymyxa 3074 842 neotypeB. polymyxa 3033 asporogenous mutant derived from RH 3074B. polymyxa 3062 NRS 1105 neotypeB. polymyxa 3073 asporogenous mutant derived from NRS 1105 B. subtilis and B. polymyxa can be distinguished by EcoRI data FIGURE 9 , PST I data FIGURE 10 Bgl II data FIGURE 11, left and Sac I data FIGURE 11, right . It can be concluded from the major differences in the PST I band patterns that bacillus polymyxa is in the wrong genus. While both species produce spores, they are not phenotypically similar.It is reassuring that the type strain of B. polymyxa from both culture collections, ATCC and NRRL have the same band patterns. The important data, however, is that the asporogenous mutants can be identified. It is very difficult, perhaps impossible, to identify Bacillus species if they fail to form spores. Example 4 Identification of a Bacterial Species in MouseTissue without Isolation A Swiss mouse, Mus musculus domesticus inbred strain , was inoculated intraperitoneally with 0.5 ml of a turbid suspension of Streptococcus pneumoniae RH 3077 ATCC 6303 . When the mouse became moribund, the heart, lungs, and liver were removed. High molecular weight DNA was isolated from these tissues, S. pneumoniae RH 3077 and Swiss mouse organs, and the procedure for restriction endonuclease analysis of rRNA genes was carried out usingEcoR I to digest the DNAs. In addition to washing the filters in 3 X SSC, they were washed for 2 X 15 minute periods in 0.3 X SSC and 0.05 SDS. Autoradiography was carried out for 48 hr. The data FIGURE 12 shows thatS. pneumoniae can be defined by seven hybridized fragments 17.0, 8.0, 6.0, 4.0, 3.3, 2.6 and 1.8 KBP .The bacterial cDNA probe hybridizes poorly to two mouseDNA fragments 14.0 and 6.8 KBP . Hybridized fragments signal the presence of S. pneumoniae in the infected tissues. All seven bands can be seen in the heart DNA extract They are less intense in the liver DNA extract, but all can be seen in the autoradiograph. Only the 6.0KBP band appears in the lung DNA extract. The lesser number of bacteria in the lungs can be explained by the mouse having septicemia rather then pneumonia. The lungs showed no consolidation at autopsy. In order to determine the sensitivity of the assay, bacterial DNA was diluted with mouse DNA and electrophoresed. All seven bands can be seen in the autoradiograph when 0.1 micrograms of bacterial DNA is used. The 17.0, 8.0 and 6.0 KBP bands can be seen with 10 3 vg of bacterialDNA.If the figure of 5 X 10 3 pg DNA per 106 S.pneumoniae cells is used Biochim Biophys Acta, 26 68 , 10 1 ijg is equivalent to 2 X 107 cells. The present technique is thus useful for diagnosing infections at this level of sensitivity. This Example also demonstrates that the bacterial probe hybridizes with mouse specific EcoR I fragments see FIGURE 9, fragments having 14.0 and 6.8 KBP . These fragments correspond to EcoR I fragments detected by mouse 18S and 28S ribosomal RNA probe FIGURE 14 infra shows that the 6.8 KBP fragment contains the 28S rRNA sequences . The bacterial probe does not hybridize as well to mammalian ribosomal RNA gene sequences, so the bands are less intense, the system of bacterial probe and nuclear mammalian DNA is less sensitive, and selectivity for DNA from infecting prokaryotes is clearly demonstrated.In experiments where bacterial probe was hybridized to 10 vg digested bacterial DNA per lane, no hybridization to 10 ijg digested human or mouse DNA per lane was detected on the autoradiographs when the bacterial bands were clearly seen. Examples 5 8 Mammalian experiments These examples illustrate that the concept of rRNA restriction analysis to identify organisms can be successfully applied not only to bacteria but to complex, eukaryotic organisms FIGURE 13 shows that mammelian genera can be recognized with Mus musculus domesticus 18S and 28S rRNA probe, and that several species of Mus can be distinguished. In this figure, the enzyme is PST I and the subjects and corresponding bands are as follows 1. Mus musculus relossinus mouse 14.5, 13.5, 2.6 2. Mus musculus domesticus mouse 13.5, 2.6 3.Canis familiaris dog 12.0 4. Cavia porcellus guinea pig 17.0, 14.0, 13.0, 8.8, 5.7, 4.7, and one band less than 3.0 5. Cricetulus griseus hamster 25.0, 4.7 6. Homo sapiens human 15.0, 5.7 7. Felis catus cat 20.0, 9.7 8. Ratus norvegicus rat 12.5 9. Mus nusculus domesticus mousse 13.5, 2.6 10. Mus cervicolor cervicolor mouse 14.0, 2.7 11. Mus cervicolor papeus mouse 13.5, 2.6 12. Mus pahari mouse 13.0, 3.7 13. Mus cookii mouse 13.5, 2.6Figure 14 shows that mouse and cat DNA can be distinguished by the 28S rRNA cDNA alone, and that the pattern of hybridized bands is dependent on the composition of the probe sequences.In Figure 14 the enzyme is EcoR I, and the subjects and bands are as follows 1. Mus musculus domesticus mouse 6.8 KBP 2. Felis catus cat 8.3 KBP In Figure 15 the enzyme is Sac I, and the subjects and bands are as follows 1. Erytrocebus patas patas monkey 8.5, 3.7, 3.0 2. Ratus norvegicus rat 25.0, 9,5, 3.6, 3.0 3. Mus musculus domesticus mouse 6.8, 3.0 4. Felis catus cat 9.5, 5.3, 4.0, 3.0, 3.0 5. Homo sapiens human 10.5, 3.0 6. Macaca mulatta rhesus monkey 9.8, 3.0OWhen Figure 15 Sac I digests is compared to the other mammalien figures it can be seen the the hybridized pattern is enzyme specific. Figure 16 shows that primates can be distinguished. Cell cultures have bands in common with tissue from the species of origin, and different human cell cultures can be distinguished by additions and deletions of bands. In this figure, the enzyme is EcoRI, and the subjects and bands are as follows 1. Erytrocebus patas patas monkey 22.0, 11.0, 7.6, 2.6 2.Macaca mulatta rhebus monkey 22.0, 11.5, 7.6 3. Hcmo sapiens human 22.0, 22.0, 16.0, 8.1, 6.6 4. M 241 88 langur monkey cell culture 14.0, 7.2, 5.7 5. HeLa human cell culture 8,1, 6.6 6. J96 human cell culture 22.0, 22.0, 16.0, 11.0, 8.1, 6.6 7. AO human cell culture 22.0, 16.0, 8.1, 6.6 8. X 381 rhesus monkey 22.0, 11.5, 7.6.INDUSTRIAL APPLICABILITY It will have been appreciated from the foregoing description that the present invention has wide ranging industrial applicability. However reference should be made in particular to its industrial applicability to veterinary and horticultural industrial activity and its greater benefit to such as plant breeders, cattle breeders and fish breeders in providing a rapid and accurate method for identifying antipathetical organisms in their stock permitting them to apply more rapidly effective measures to prevent or ameliorate damage caused thereby and to do so with greater certainty that they know accurately the nature of the organism they are trying to combat. The use of the method can thus lead to higher output of commercially important products. Reference can also be made to the use of the method in clinical or microbiological laboratories to identify bacteria parasites or fungi since in contrast to conventional microbiological assays it does not require isolation and growth of the microbes. The method can also be used in epidemiology where speed and accuracy are vital. It can be used in forensic laboratories to correctly and unambiguously identify plant or animal tissues in criminal investigations. It can be used by entomologists to quickly identify insect species when ascertaining the nature of crop infestations.