# Apparatus for the manufacture of plastic handles for small bags.

## Abstract
Half moulds are used to be completed with interchange able dowels 41, 42 with intermediate fitting permitting shape variability. Dowelling on the mobile half mould 2 is in three sectors 5, 10, 6 , the central of which is fixed whereas the side ones are mobile. When the mobile half mould 2 starts returning, a switch 1 acts a pair of jacks 3,4 starting the converging movement of the mobile sectors which, rotating on cams, are closed. This brings to buttoning by fitting automatic blocking components of the handle halfparts, which then get out from the forming hollows by means of extractors in the form of pivots and fall into a container. The shaped are carried out through the continuity of the hollows on the half parts of the half moulds, where the two stick terminals 11,12,18 21,28,29 are formed, and on the dowels where the central part 16,17,24,26,27,34 is formed which completes the said stick and foresees the handle. The system allows the employ of half moulds as fixed parts of the machine, thus reducing the installation costs and the working time as well.

## Claims
Claims. 1 System for carrying out handles in plastic materials for small bags, characterized by the fact that it employs half moulds perma nently to settle or fixed on the machine which are to be completed at printing plane with interchangeable dowels. This application is foreseen in an intermediate longitudinal position on pivots to be interted and blocked thus permitting to the fixed part to opera te in containment to facilitate the positioning with mnemonic coun terposition. By changing dowelling, the printing parts are prepared for another working form. 2 System for carrying out handles in plastic materials for small bags, according to the claim 1, characterized by the fact that the mobile half mould is foreseen with three components, of which a central imposing one and two side mobile components. The two mo bile sectors are made in correspondence to set in closure on the central sector integral with the structure existing behind. 3 System for carrying out handles in plastic materials for small bags, according to the clams 1 and 2, characterized by the fact that when the mobile half mould starts the retuning phase, a swit ch acts on a pair of jacks fitted on line on the fixed intermedia te parts behind the mobile mould. They start the converging movement of the two mobile sectors which turn on articolations supported on cams and get closed. This phase permits buttoning by binding the automatic blocking half coponents, conventionally foreseen proper ly intervalled on the inside of the handles and connecting sticks, of the two handle parts, which get out from the forming hollows by means of extractors in pivot shape foreseen at intervals in the hollows. Foreseen in this way, the handles fall into a container fitted below 4 System for carrying out handles in plastic materials for small bags, according to the claims 1 3, characterized by the fact that the handle half parts are carried out by continuity of the hollows on the half parts of the half moulds and on the intermedi ate dowel. 5 System for carrying out handles in plastic materials for small bags, according to the claims 1 4, characterized by the fact that on the two containment parts, forming hollows are foreseen of the stick terminals, whereas on the intermediate part the remaining stic forming part and the handle are formed. 6 System for carrying out handles in plastic materials for small bags, according to the claims 1 5 characterized by the fact that by properly alternating the two insertion and containment forms of the blocking automatica parts on the inside handle forms, it is possible to carry out bivalent handle half parts, thus avoiding stocking rss nders which cannot be used, 7 System for carrying out handles in plastic materials for small bags, according to claims 1 6, characterized by the fact that it employs bar 1 which, when part 2 in return phase is detached, acts on a switch which starts a pair of line jacks 3 and 4 start ing the mobile sectors 5 and 6 rotating on the counterposed hinges 7 and 8 6f fixed part 9 These sectors continue the movements on the cam systems and are brought in closure on intermediate sec tor 10. 8 System for carrying out handles in plastic materials for small bags, according to claims 1 7, characterized by the fact that the printing farms in version are determined on the mobile half mould in sector 5 by hollows 11 and 12 on parts 13 and 14 of the beating plane of dowel 15 containing structure, which foresees hol low 16 in connection with the first one completing the stick with an additional hollow 17 for handle formation. In sector 10 by the hollow pair 18, 19 and 20, 21 on parts 22 and 23 of the beating plane of the containing structure of dowel 42 which foresees blended with the first one hollows 24 and 25 completing the two sticks and further hollows 26 and 27 for handle formation. In sector 6 from hol lows 28 and 29 on plarts 30 and 31 of the beating plane of dowel 32 containing structure which foresees hollows 33 blended with the first ones completing stick 32 this one foresees hollow 33 blended with the first one and completing the stick as well as the additional hollow 34 forming the handle. 9 System for carrying out handles in plastic materials for small bags, according to the claims 1 8, characterized by the fact that in the closing phase the two pair of printing forms are connected by inserting the automatic blocking hafi components with pivots 35 and hollows 36 in alternate disposition and in correspondence on the two half parts the handle consists of. 10 System for carrying out handles in plastic material for small bags, according to the claims 1 9, characterized by the fact that the expulsion of the printing forms is allowed by the pivot extractors 37 acting on helical springs and fitted in intervals on the printing reliefs 38 of the plane consisting of the containment half parts 39 and 40 and of dowel 41.

## Description
System for carrying out handles inplastic materials for small boys. The invention refers to a system for producing handles in plastic ma terials for small bags, which permits to lower the installation costs and to reduce the working times. At present, for the handle production, printing half parts are used on the machines but they are to be replaced when the working type is changed. This causes conside rable installation costs and requires large presetting times since the said part sizes and weights are considerable and require delicate mounting phases.The invented system foresees a fabrication form of a new conception which, as a principle, perr.its to consider the printing half p2rts as unremovable ones, or at any rate not necessarily to replace on the machine when the working type changes. These printing half parts, infact, act as containing and imposing structu re of other replacable part, permitting the easy mounting of the said replaceable parts that compose all the forming parts. In this way the composing part will result from the composition in succession of an analogous part for all the workings and of a second intermedia te part that when replaced will cause the change of the working.The proceeding alloys hal s permanently to settle or fixed on the machine which are to he cor . leted at printing plane with interchangeable dowels. This application is foreseen in an intermediate longitudins1 position on rivots to te inserted and blocked thus per mitting to the fixed part to operate in containment to facilitate the positioning with mnemonic counterposition. By changing dowelling, the printing parts are prepared for another working form. The mobile half mould is foreseen with three components, of which a central imposing one and two side mobile components. The two mobile sectors are in correspondence to set in closure on the central sector integral with the structure existing behind.When the mobile halfemould starts the retuning phase, a switch acts on a pair of jacks fitted on line on the fixed intermediate parts behind the mobile mould. They start the converging movement of the two mobile sectors which turn on arti culations supported on cams and get closed. This phase permits button ing by binding the automatic blocking half components, conventionally foreseen properly intervalled on the inside of the handles and connect ing sticks, of the two handle parts, which get out from the forming hollows by means of extractors in pivot shape foreseen at intervals in the hollows. Foreseen in this way, the handles fall into a container fitted below. The handle half parts are carried out by continuity of the hollows on the half parts of the haif moulds and on the Intermediate dowel.On the two containment pants, forming hollows are foreseen of the stick terminals, whereas on the intermediate parte the remaining stick forming part and the handle are formed By properly alternating the two insertion and containment forms of the blocking automatica parts on the inside handle forms, it is possible to carry out bivalent handle half parts, thus avoiding stocking r ders which cannot be used. An execution form ib ivllustrated gn a eg fly indicative way and, thethe refore, not limiting the proceedtng, by the drawings of Tablet 1 and 2, where fig. 1 is the front view of the hal uld of the mobile parts, which shows the fixed half parts on printing plane with inter posed dowelling consisting of Three ce nents. Pig. 2 is the view of the fixed part half mould which stunts only one component dowelling in the forming hollows the pivot extractors can be noted for return phase forms, Fig. 3 is a schematic view from above of the mo mobile printing half part with the rotating side sectors. Fig. 4 is a view from above of the printing device. Fig. 5 is the perspective view of the mobile printing part with side sectors in rotation. The machine employs bar 1 which, when part 2 in return phase is detached, acts on a switch which starts a pair of line jacks 3 and 4 start ing the mobile sectors 5 and 6 rotating on the counterposed hinges 7 and 8 of fixed part 9. These sectors continue the movement on the cam systems and are brought in closure on intermediate sector 10.The printing forms in version are determined on the mobile halfmould in sector 5 by hollows 11 and 12 on parts 13 and 14 of the beating plane of dowel 15 containing structure, which foresees hollow 16 in connection with the first ones completing the stick with an additional hollow 17 for handle formation, In sector 10 by the hollow pair 18, 19 and 20, 21 on parts 22 and 23 of the beating plane of the containing structure of dowel 42 which foresees blended with the first ones hollows 24 and 25 ooflpleting the two sticks and further hollows 26 and 27 for handle formation. In sector 6 from hollows 28 and 29 on parts 30 and 31 of the beating plane of dowel 32 containing structure which foresees hollows 33 blended with the first one completing stick 32 this one fore sees hollow 33 blen ded with The fir st one and completing the stick as well as the additional hollow 34 forming the handle. In the closing phase the tws pair of printing forms are connected by in serting the automatic blocking half components with pivots 35 and hollows 36 in alternate disposition and in correspondence on the two half ports the handle consists of. The expulsion of the printing forms is allowed by the pivot extractors 37 acting on helical springs and fitted in intervals on the printing reliefs 38 of the plane consisting of the containment half parts 39 and 40 and of dowel 41. The shape ojl the dowels, the nLnZeP of the printing forms, each mounting pivot, for motion and activation nay be otherwise foreseen.