# DNA encoding human tumor necrosis factor and human tumor necrosis factor polypeptide.

## Abstract
A novel cloned DNA encoding a human tumor necrosis factor TNF , a vector having said DNA inserted thereinto, a host transformed with said vector and a novel human TNF polypeptide, and processes for producing them.

## Claims
What is claimed is 1. A DNA having or containing a base sequence corresponding to a human tumor necrosis factor polypeptide or its principal portion, or its allelic mutant polypeptide, or a base sequence resulting from modification of said base sequence. 2. A DNA having a base sequence encoding a polypeptide containing the amino acid sequence of a human tumor necrosis factor or an active central portion thereof, or a mutant of said DNA resulting from mutation including allelic mutation or degeneration or partial modification of said DNA. 3. A DNA having or containing a base sequence corresponding to an amino acid sequence represented by the following formula 11 Y p X n B m A tIl or a base sequence having a termination codon at the 3 terminus of said base sequence, wherein A is a polypeptide of the formula Ia below in which one or more amino acids may be deleted or replaced by other amino acid s , B is a peptide of the formula Ib below in which one to three amino acids may be deleted or re placed by other amino acid s , X is a polypeptide, Y is Met, and m, n and p are 1 or 0 the formula lIal being as follows Thr Pro Ser Asp Lys Pro Val Ala His Val Val Ala Asn Pro Gln Ala Glu Gly Gln Leu Gln Trp Leu Asn Arg Arg Ala Asn Ala Leu Leu Ala Asn Gly Val Glu Leu Arg Asp Asn Gln Leu Val Val Pro Ser Glu Gly Leu Tyr Leu Ile Tyr Ser Gln Val Leu Phe Lys Gly Gln Gly Cys Pro Ser Thr His Val Leu Leu Thr His Thr Ile Ser Arg Ile Ala Val Ser Tyr Gln Thr Lys Val Asn Leu Leu Ser Ala Ile Lys Ser Pro Cys Gln Arg Glu Thr Pro Gln Gly Ala Glu Ala Lys Pro Trp Tyr Glu Pro Ile Tyr Leu Gly Gly Val Phe Gln Leu Glu Lys Gly Asp Arg Leu Ser Ala Glu Ile Asn Arg Pro Asp Tyr Leu Asp Phe Ala Glu Ser Gly Gln Val Tyr Phe Gly Ile Ile Ala Len ... Ia and the formula Ib being as follows Ser Ser Ser Arg Ib . 4. A DNA claimed in claim 3 having or containing a base sequence corresponding to an amino acid sequence represented by the following formula lI Y p X n B m A I or a base sequence having a termination codon at the 3 terminus of said base sequence, wherein A, B, Y, m, n and p are the same as defined in claim 3, and X is a polypeptide of the formula Ic Ser Thr Glu Ser Met Ile Arg Asp Val Gln Leu Ala Glu Glu Ala Leu Pro Lys Lys Thr Gly Gly Pro Gln Gly Ser Arg Arg Cys Leu Phe Leu Ser Leu Phe Ser Phe Leu Ile Val Ala Gly Ala Thr Thr Leu Phe Cys Leu Leu His Phe Gly Val Ile Gly Pro Gln Arg Glu Glu Phe Pro Arg Asp Leu Ser Leu Ile Ser Pro Leu Ala Gln Ala Val Arg ... Ic 5. A DNA claimed in claim 3 having or containing a base sequence corresponding to an amino acid sequence represented by the following formula I Y p X n B m a I or a base sequence having a termination codon at the 3 terminus of said base sequence, wherein A is a polypeptide of the formula Ia shown in claim 3, B is a peptide of the formula jIb shown in claim 3, Y and p are the same as defined in claim 3, X is a polypeptide of the formula Ic shown in claim 4, and m and n are 1. 6. A DNA claimed in claim 3 having or containing a base sequence corresponding to an amino acid sequence represented by the following formula lIl Y p X n B m A I or a base sequence having a termination codon at the 3 terminus of said base sequence, wherein A is a polypeptide of the formula Ia shown in claim 3, B is a peptide of the formula Ib shown in claim 3, m is 1, n is 0, and Y and p are the same as defined in claim 3. 7. A DNA claimed in claim 3 having or containing a base sequence corresponding to an amino acid sequence represented by the following formula I Y p X n B m A I or a base sequence having a termination codon at the 3 terminus of said base sequence, wherein A is a polypeptide of the formula Ial shown in claim 3, n and m are 0, and Y and p are the same as defined in claim 3. 8. A DNA claimed in claim 3 having or containing a base sequence corresponding to an amino acid sequence represented by the following formula oil Y p X n B m A I or a base sequence having a termination codon at the 3 terminus of said base sequence, wherein A is a polypeptide of the formula lIa in which one or more amino acids are deleted or replaced by other amino acid s , m and n are 0, and Y and p are the same as defined in claim 3. 9. A DNA claimed in claim 3 having or containing a base sequence corresponding to an amino acid sequence represented by the following formula IIl Y p X n B m A I or a base sequence having a termination codon at the 3 terminus of said base sequence, wherein A is a polypeptide of the formula lIa in which Thr in the first position from the N termi nus, amino acids from the above Thr in the first position to Pro in the 6th position, amino acids from the above Thr in the first position to His in the 9th position, or amino acids from the above Thr in the first position to Ala in the 12th position are deleted, m and n are 0, and Y and p are the same as defined in claim 3. 10. A DNA claimed in claim 3 having or containing a base sequence corresponding to an amino acid sequence represented by the following formula 1I Y p X n B lr A I or a base sequence having a termination codon at the 3 terminus of said base sequence, wherein A is a polypeptide of the formula Ia in which Thr and His in the 66th and 67th positions from the N terminus are replaced by His, Thr or Tyr, m and n are 0, and Y and p are the same as defined in claim 3. 11. A DNA having at least a base sequence corresponding to an amino acid sequence represented by the following formula jIa or an amino acid sequence of the following formula Ia in which amino acid from Trp in the first position from N terminus to Asp in the 27th position are deleted Trp Tyr Glu Pro Ile Tyr Let cloy Gly Val Phe Gln Leu Glu Lys Gly Asp Arg Leu Ser Ala Glu Ile Asn Arg Pro Asp Tyr Leu Asp Phe Ala Glu Ser Gly Gln Val Tyr Phe Gly Ile Ile Ala Leu ... lIa . 12. A DNA having or containing a base sequence represented by the following formula 11 Y X B m A 11 or a base sequence having a termination codon at the 3 terminus of said base sequence, wherein A is a base sequence of the formula lIIa below in which one or more codons may be deleted or replaced by other codon s , B is a base sequence of the formula IIbl below in which one to three codons may be deleted or replaced by other codon s , X is a base sequence of the formula IIc below, Y is ATG, and m, n and p are 1 or 0 the formula lIIal being as follows 5 ACC CCG AGT GAC AAG CCT GTA GCC CAT GTT GTA GCA AAC CCT CAA GCT GAG GGG CAG CTC CAG TGG CTG AAC CGC CGG GCC AAT GCC CTC CTG GCC AAT GGC GTG GAG CTG AGA GAT AAC CAG CTG GTG GTG CCA TCA GAG GGC CTG TAC CTC ATC TAC TCC CAG GTC CTC TTC AAG GGC CAA GGC TGC CCC TCC ACC CAT GTG CTC CTC ACC CAC ACC ATC AGC CGC ATC GCC GTC TCC TAC CAG ACC AAG GTC AAC CTC CTC TCT GCC ATC AAG AGC CCC TGC CAG AGG GAG ACC CCA GAG GGG GCT GAG GCC AAG CCC TGG TAT GAG CCC ATC TAT CTG GGA GGG GTC TTC CAG CTG GAG AAG GGT GAC CGA CTC AGC GCT GAG ATC AAT CGG CCC GAC TAT CTC GAC TTT GCC GAG TCT GGG CAG GTC TAC TTT GGG ATC ATT GCC CTG 3 ... IIa , the formula IIbJ being as follows 5 TCA TCT TCT CGA 3 ... IIb the formula lIc being as follows 5 AGC ACT GAA AGC ATG ATC CGG GAC GTG GAG CTG GCC GAG GAG GCG CTC CCC AAG AAG ACA GGG GGG CCC CAG GGC TCC AGG CGG TGC TTG TTC CTC AGC CTC TTC TCC TTC CTG ATC GTG GCA GGC GCC ACC ACG CTC TTC TGC CTG CTG CAC TTT GGA GTG ATC GGC CCC CAG AGG GAA GAG TTC CCC AGG GAC CTC TCT CTA ATC AGC CCT CTG GCC CAG GCA GTC AGA 3 lIc . 13. A DNA claimed in claim 12 having or containing a base sequence represented by the following formula 11 Y p X n B m A II or a base sequence having a termination codon at the 3 terminus of said base sequence, wherein A is a base sequence of the formula lIIa shown in claim 12, B is a base sequence of the formula lIIb shown in claim 12, m and n are 1, and X , Y and p are the same as defined in claim 12. 14. A DNA claimed in claim 12 having or containing a base sequence represented by the following formula 11 Y p X n B m A II or a base sequence having a termination codon at the 3 terminus of said base sequence, wherein A is a base sequence of the formula IIa shown in claim 12, B is a base sequence of the formula IIb shown in claim 12, m is 1, n is 0, and Y and p are the same as defined in claim 12. 15. A DNA claimed in claim 12 having or containing a base sequence represented by the following formula II Y p X n B m A II or a base sequence having a termination codon at the 3 terminus of said base sequence, wherein A is a base sequence of the formula IIIal shown in claim 12, m and n are 0, and Y and p are the same as defined in claim 12. 16. A DNA claimed in claim 12 having or containing a base sequence represented by the following formula III Y p X n B m A II or a base sequence having a termination codon at the 3 terminus of said base sequence, wherein A is a base sequence of the formula IIa in which one or more codons are deleted or replaced by other codon s , m and n are 0, and Y and p are the same as defined in claim 12. 17. A DNA claimed in claim 12 having or containing a base sequence represented by the following formula lIIl Y p X n B m A lIll or a base sequence having a termination codon at the 3 terminus of said base sequence, wherein A is a base sequence of the formula lIIal in which ACC in the first codon from the 5 terminus, codons from the above ACC in the first codon to CCT in the 6th codon, codons from the above ACC in the first codon to CAT in the 9th codon, or codons from the above ACC in the first codon to GCA in the 12th codon are deleted, m and n are 0, and Y and p are the same as defined in claim 12. 18. A DNA claimed in claim 12 having or containing a base sequence represented by the following formula III1 Y p X n B m A lIII or a base sequence having a termination codon at the 3 terminus of said base sequence, wherein A is a base sequence of the formula lIIal in which ACC and CAT in the 66th and 67th codons from the 5 terminus are replaced by CAT, ACC or TAC, m and n are 0, and Y and p are the same as defined in claim 12. 19. A DNA having at least a base sequence represented by the following formula IIa j or a base sequence of the formula tIIag in which codons from TGG in the first codon from the 5 terminus to GAC in the 27th codon are deleted 5 TGG TAT GAG CCC ATC TAT CTG GGA GGG GTC TTC CAG CTG GAG AAG GGT GAC CGA CTC AGC GCT GAG ATC AAT CGG CCC GAC TAT CTC GAC TTT GCC GAG TCT GGG CAG GTC TAC TTT GGG ATC ATT GCC CTG 3 ... fIIa . 20. A DNA encoding a polypeptide of which activity is essetnially equivalent to that of a human tumor necrosis factor polypeptide or its principal portion. 21. A DNA containing a base sequence which is different from but has high homology to a portion s of a base sequence encoding rabbit tumor necrosis factor. 22. A vector into which the DNA of any one of claims 1 to 21 is inserted. 23. The vector of claim 22 which is an expression vector. 24. An expression vector of claim 23 which comprises a base sequence corresponding to an amino acid sequence represented by the following formula jim Y pl X n B m A I wherein p is 1, and A, B, X, Y, m and n are the same as defined in claim 3, and having a termination codon at the 3 terminus of said base sequence, wherein said base sequence is under the control of a transcriptional promoter. 25. An expression vector of claim 24 wherein the transcriptional promoter is a trp promoter or a tac promoter. 26. An expression vector of claim 24 wherein the base sequence corresponding to the amino acid sequence of formula I as defined in claim 24 having a termination codon at the 3 terminus of said base sequence is connected in the correct translational reading frame to a second base sequence encoding a protein to be fused. 27. An expression vector of claim 26 wherein the second base sequence encoding a protein to be fused is a phoS gene. 28. A vector of claims 22 27 which can proliferate inEscherichia coli. 29. A vector of claim 28 which is Escherichia coli plasmid. 30. A vector of claim 29 which is pBR322. 31. A host transformed with a vector of claims 22 30. 32. A host of claim 31 which is microorganism. 33. A host of claim 32 which is Escherichia coli. 34. A polypeptide having or containing a human tumor necrosis factor polypeptide or its principal portion, a human tunor necrosis factor like substance or its principal portion, or its chemically or enzymatically modified substance. 35. A polypeptide represented by the following formula I Y P X n B A II or its derivative or a salt thereof, wherein A is a polypeptide of the formula Ia below in which one or more amino acids may be deleted or replaced by other amino acid s , B is a peptide of the formula Ib below in which one to three amino acids may be deleted or re placed by other amino acid s , X is a polypeptide, Y is Met, and m, n and p are respectively 1 or Ot the formula Ia being as follows Thr Pro Ser Asp Lys Pro Val Ala His Val Val Ala Asn Pro Gln Ala Glu Gly Gln Leu Gln Trp Leu Asn Arg Arg Ala Asn Ala Leu Leu Ala Asn Gly Val Glu Leu Arg Asp Asn Gln Leu Val Val Pro Ser Glu Gly Leu Tyr Leu Ile Tyr Ser Gln Val Leu Phe Lys Gly Gln Gly Cys Pro Ser Thr His Val Leu Leu Thr His Thr Ile Ser Arg Ile Ala Val Ser Tyr Gln Thr Lys Val Asn Leu Leu Ser Ala Ile Lys Ser Pro Cys Gln Arg Glu Thr Pro Glu Gly Ala Glu Ala Lys Pro Trp Tyr Glu Pro Ile Tyr Leu Gly Gly Val Phe Gln Leu Glu Lys Gly Asp Arg Leu Ser Ala Glu Ile Asn Arg Pro Asp Tyr Leu Asp Phe Ala Glu Ser Gly Gln Val Tyr Phe Gly Ile Ile Ala Leu ... Ial and the formula Ib being as follows Ser Ser Ser Arg ... Ib 36. A polypeptide claimed in claim 35 represented by the following formula I Y p X n B m A I or its derivative or a salt thereof, wherein A, B, Y, m, n and p are the same as defined in claim 35, and X is a polypeptide of the formula lIclbeing as follows Ser Thr Glu Ser Met Ile Arg Asp Val Glu Leu Ala Glu Glu Ala Leu Pro Lys Lys Thr Gly Gly Pro Gln Gly Ser Arg Arg Cys Leu Phe Leu Ser Leu Phe Ser Phe Leu Ile Val Ala Gly Ala Thr Thr Leu Phe Cys Leu Leu His Phe Gly Val Ile Gly Pro Gln Arg Glu Gln Phe Pro Arg Asp Leu Ser Leu Ile Ser Pro Leu Ala Gln Ala Val Arg ... Ic . 37. A polypeptide claimed in claim 35 represented by the following formula I Y p X n B m A I wherein A is a polypeptide of the formula tIal shown in claim 35, B is a peptide of the formula Ib shown in claim 35, X is a polypeptide of the formula Ic shown in claim 36, m and n are 1, and Y and p are the same as defined in claim 35. 38. A polypeptide claimed in claim 35 represented by the following formula I Y p X n B m A I wherein A is a polypeptide of the formula Ia shown in claim 35, B is a peptide of the formula Ibl shown in claim 35, m is 1, n is 0, and Y and p are the same as defined in claim 35. 39. A polypeptide claimed in claim 35 represented by the following formula I Y p X n B m A I wherein A is a polypeptide of the formula Ia shown in claim 35, m and n are 0, and Y and p are the same as defined in claim 35. 40. A polypeptide claimed in claim 35 represented by the following formula lIl Y p X n B m A I wherein A is a polypeptide of the formula lIa shown in claim 35, B is a peptide of the formula IIb shown in claim 35, m is 1, and n and p are 0. 41. A polypeptide claimed in claim 35 represented by the following formula I Y p X n B m A I wherein A is a polypeptide of formula tidal shown in claim 35, and m, n and p are 0. 42. A polypeptide claimed in claim 35 represented by the following formula lII Y p X n B m A I or its derivative or its salt, wherein A is a polypeptide of the formula Ia in which one or more amino acids are deleted or replaced by other amino acid s , m and n are 0, and Y and p are the same as defined in claim 35. 43. A polypeptide claimed in claim 35 represented by the following formula I Y p X n B m A I wherein A is a polypeptide of the formula Ia in which Thr in the first position from the N termi nus, amino acids from the above Thr in the first position to Pro in the 6th position, amino acids from the above Thr in the first position to His in the 9th position, or amino acids from the above Thr in the first position to Ala in the 12th position are deleted, m and n are 0, and Y and p are the same as defined in claim 35. 44. A polypeptide claimed in claim 35 represented by the following formula tIJ Y p X n B m A I wherein A is a polypeptide of the formula Ia in which Thr and His in the 66th and 67th positions from the N terminus are replaced by His, Thr or Tyr, m and n are 0, and Y and p are the same as defined in claim 35. 45. A polypeptide containig at least a polypeptide represented by the following formula Ia or a polypeptide of the formula Ia in which amino acid from Trp in the first position from the N terminus to Asp in the 27th position are deleted Trp Tyr Gln Pro Ile Tyr Leu Gly Gly Val Phe Gln Leu Gln Lys Gly Asp Arg Leu Ser Ala Glu Ile Asn Arg Pro Asp Tyr Leu Asp Phe Ala Glu Ser Gly Gln Val Tyr Phe Gly Ile Ile Ala Leu ... Ia . 46. A polypeptide of which activity is essentially equivalent to that of a human tumor necrosis factor polypeptide or its principal portion. 47. A polypeptide containing a polypeptide which is different from, but has high homology to a portion s of a rabbit tumor necrosis factor. 48. A substance resulting from chemical or enzymatic modification of a polypeptide claimed in any one of claims 37 to 45. 49. A pharmaceutically acceptable salt of a polypetide claimed in any one of claims 37 to 48. 50. An aggregate having a polypeptide claimed in any one of claims 37 to 49 as a subunit. 51. An aggregate claimed in claim 50 which is a trimer. 52. A trimer claimed in claim 51 which consists of a polypeptide claimed in claim 40 as a subunit. 53. A pharmaceutical composition of a substance claimed in any one of claims 34 to 52 as an active ingredient. 54. Use of any one of the substances claimed in claims 34 to 53 as an antitumor agent. 55. A process for production of a DNA having or containing a base sequence encoding a human tumor necrosis factor polypeptide, or a principal portion thereof, which comprises cultivating human macrophages together with inducer s , separating a fraction containing a human tumor necrosis factor mRNA from the macrophages, preparing a cDNA library from the fraction, and cloning of cDNA encoding the human tumor necrosis factor or its principal portion. 56. A process for producing a polypeptide having or containing a human tumor necrosis factor polypeptide or a principal portion thereof, which comprises cultivating human macrophages together with inducers, separating a fraction containing a human tumor necrosis factor mRNA from the macrophages, preparing a cDNA library from the fraction, cloning of cDNA encoding the human tumor necrosis factor or its principal portion, inserting the cloned cDNA into an expression vector, introducing the recombinant vector into a host to transform it, cultivating the transformant, and collecting the resulting polypeptide having or containing the human tumor necrosis factor polypeptide or a principal portion thereof. 57. A process for producing a polypeptide having or containing a human tumor necrosis factor polypeptide or its principal portion, a human tumor necrosis factor like substance or its principal portion, or its modified substance, which comprises inserting a DNA having or containing a base sequence encoding the human tumor necrosis factor polypeptide or its principal portion, or its modified base sequence into an expression vector, transforming a host with the recombinant vector, cultivating the host, and collecting the resulting polypeptide having or containing the human tumor necrosis factor polypeptide or a principal portion thereof from the host and then if desired, modifying the polypeptide. 58. A process for producing or containing a DNA having a base sequence encoding a human tumor necrosis factor polypeptide or its principal portion, or a modified base sequence thereof, which comprises 1 cultivating human macrophages together with inducer s , 2 separating a fraction containing a human tumor necrosis factor mRNA from the macrophages, 3 preparing a single stranded cDNA from the mRNA by using reverse transcriptase and then converting it to a double stranded cDNA, 4 inserting the double stranded cDNA into a vector, 5 introducing the recombinant vector into a host to transform it and construct a cDNA library, 6 cloning cDNA encoding the human tumor necrosis factor polypeptide or its principal portion from the library, and 7 as desired, modifying the cloned cDNA. 59. A process of claim 55 or 58 which is for the production of a DNA having or containing a base sequence corresponding to an amino acid sequence represented by the following formula I Y p X n B A I or a base sequence having a termination codon at the 3 terminus of said base sequence, wherein A, B, X, Y, m, n and p are the same as defined in claim 3. 60. A process of claim 55 or 58 which is for the production of a DNA having or containing a base sequence represented by the following formula II1 Y p X n B m A or a base sequence having a termination codon at the 3 terminus of said base sequence, wherein A , B , X , Y , m, n and p are the same as defined in claim 12. 61. A process of claim 56 or 57 which is for the production of a polypeptide represented by the following formula I Y p X n B m A I or its derivative or a salt thereof, wherein A, B, X, Y, m, n and p are the same as defined in claim 35.

## Description
The present invention relates to 1 a DNA having or containing a base sequence corresponding to a human tumor necrosis factor polypeptide, its principal portion, or a polypeptide derived from an allelic mutant of the DNA encoding human tumor necrosis factor polypeptide hereinafter referred to as allelic mutant polypeptide or a base sequence resulting from modification of said base sequence 2 a vector having said DNA inserted thereinto, a host transformed with said vector, a process for producing a polypeptide corresponding to said DNA by using said host 3 a polypeptide having or containing a human tumor necrosis factor polypeptide or its principal portion, a human tumor necrosis factor like substance or its principal portion, or their chemically or enzymatically modified substances and 4 a pharmaceutical composition containing said polypeptide or substance, or its use as an antitumor agent in patients. Carswell et al. found that the sera of mice infected with bacillus Calmette Guerin BCG and then treated with endotoxin contain a substance which necrotizes transplanted Meth A sarcoma and named it tumor necrosis factor hereinafter referred to as TNF Proc. Nat. Acad.Sci., USA, 72, 3666 1975 1. TNF is considered to be a physiologically active substance released from macrophages, and is known to be characterized in that i when it is administered to animals bearing a certain kind of tumor for example, Meth A sarcoma , it causes necrosis in the tumor and cures the animals ii it has a cytotoxic effect in vitro on a certain kind of tumor cells such as mouse L cells but has scarcely any injurious effect on normal cells and iii its activity is not animal species specific. Because of these characteristics, it has been strongly desired to develop TNF as a new type of antitumor agent. TNF or a TNF like substance has been reported in the following literature references or published in the following patent documents. Green et al., Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci., USA, 73, 381 1976 . Matthews et al., Br. J. Cancer, 42, 416 1980 . Ruff et al., J. Immunol., 125, 1671 1980 . Männel et al., Infect. Immunity, 28, 204 1980 . Haranaka et al., Japan. J. Exp. Med., 51, 191 1981 . European Patent Publication No. 90892. European Patent Publication No. 86475. Japanese Patent Publication No. 21621 1983. The processes disclosed in these documents are characterized by involving purification of TNF from body fluids e.g., blood or tissues of rabbits, mice, hamsters or guinea pigs as raw materials. The products, however, are not so clearly defined, and it is evident that various restrictions are imposed on these processes in regard to the supply of raw materials and the purities of the final products. In clinical application as a potent antitumor agent, TNF originated from humans is desirable in consideration of immunogenicity. The above described processes, however, cannot be applied to the production of humanTNF. The following have so far been reported on an antitumor cytotoxin originated from humans cytotoxins produced from human peripheral monocytes and human myelocytic monocytic leukemia cells Matthews, Immunology, 44, 135 1981 , from the adherent cells in human peripheral blood cells Reed, et al., J. Immunol., 115, 395 1975 , and from human B cell lines Williamson, et al., Proc. Nat.Acad. Sci., USA, 80, 5397 1983 . These substances have cytotoxic activity, but are neither defined clearly. The present inventors have made various investigations by applying the recombinant DNA technology. These investigations have led to successful cloning of cDNA encoding human TNF polypeptide. In the course of these investigations, the present inventors also found that the human TNF cDNA codes for its precursor polypeptide.Furthermore, the present inventors succeeded in producing human TNF polypeptide in a host transformed with an expression vector having the cloned human TNF cDNA inserted thereinto, and in purifying the human TNF polypeptide to homogeneity. For simplification of the description, the following abbreviations are used in the present specification and claims. A adenine C cytosine G guanine T thymine Ala alanine Arg arginine Asn asparagine Asp aspartic acid Cys cysteine Gln glutamine Glu glutamic acid Gly glycine His histidine Ile isoleucine Leu leucine Lys lysine Met methionine Phe phenylalanine Pro proline Ser serine Thr threonine Trp tryptophan Tyr tyrosine Val valine DNA deoxyribonucleic acid cDNA complementary DNA sscDNA single stranded cDNA dscDNA double stranded cDNA RNA ribonucleic acid mRNA messenger RNA poly A mRNA poly A containing mRNA dATP deoxyadenosine triphosphate dCTP deoxycytidine triphosphate dGTP deoxyguanosine triphosphate dTTP deoxythymidine triphosphate oligo dC oligodeoxycytidylic acid oligo dG oligodeoxyguanylic acid oligo dT oligodeoxythymidylic acid poly A polyadenylic acid poly U polyuridylic acid poly dC polydeoxycytidylic acid poly dG polydeoxyguanylic acid ATP adenosine triphosphate EDTA ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid kb kilobases kbp kilobase pairs bp base pairs Meth A sarcoma methylcholanthrene induced sacroma TNF tumor necrosis factor rHu TNF recombinant human TNF In the present specification, the base sequence shown by a single strand is the base sequence of a sense strand, and the left end is a 5 terminus and the right end, a 3 terminus. In the amino acid sequence, the left end is an N terminus, and the right end, a C terminus. A detailed description of the present invention follows together with an account of the background that has led to the present invention. I 1 DNA encoding a rabbit TNF and the rabbit TNF The present inventors made various investigations with an eye on the application of recombinant DNA technology, and then succeeded in cloning cDNA encoding a rabbitTNF and elucidated of what the rabbit TNF is. More specifically, the present inventors cultivated rabbit macrophages in vitro together with suitable inducers, and ascertained that the rabbit TNF was produced and released in the culture medium. Subsequently, the present inventors found cultivation conditions which caused the rabbit TNF mRNA to be produced and accumulated in high concentrations in the macrophages. The present inventors further succeeded in cloning of cDNAs encoding the rabbit TNF and determined their base sequences, and also found that the rabbit TNF is formed as a precursor. Furthermore, the present inventors succeeded in producing the rabbit TNF in a host transformed with an expression vector having the cloned cDNA inserted there into. Details of the above cDNA encoding the rabbit TNF and the rabbit TNF are described, for example, in U. S.Patent Application Serial No. 677,680 filed on November 30, 1984 and European Patent Application No. 84114325.8 filed on November 27, 1984. Their main points are briefly described below. A typical DNA which encodes a mature rabbit TNF is represented by a base sequence represented by formula 1 1 in the attached Table 1 1. The DNA having a base sequence represented by formula 1 1 encodes a polypeptide represented by formula 1 2 in the attached Table 1 2. A DNA encoding a rabbit TNF codes for a precursor of the rabbit TNF and a typical DNA encoding the rabbit TNF precursor is represented by formula 2 11 in the attachedTable 2 1 or a DNA resulting from the addition of ATG to its 5 terminus. The DNA having the base sequence represented by formula 2 1 encodes a polypeptide represented by formula 12 2 in the attached Table 2 2. A polypeptide having the amino acid sequence represented by the formula 1 2 in Table 1 2 which is the mature rabbit TNF is not species specific and is useful as an anti tumor agent because it has a selective cytotoxic effect on tumor cells and regresses tumors of tumor bearing animals. Table 3 shows the base sequence of one example of cDNA where the rabbit TNF is encoded. The base sequence shown in Table 2 1 corresponds to the base sequence from the 37th to 738th bases in Table 3. However, the first 15 bases are an oligo dG tail added for insertion of the cDNA into a vector. 1 2 The DNAs of this invention are DNAs having or containing a base sequence corresponding to a human tumor necrosis factor human TNF polypeptide or its principal portion s , or its allelic mutant polypeptide, or a base sequence resulting from modification of said base sequence, and more specifically DNAs having or containing a base sequence corresponding to an amino acid sequence represented by the following formula lIl Y P X n B A I1 or a base sequence having a termination codon at the 3 terminus of said base sequence, wherein A is a polypeptide of the formula Ia below in which one or more amino acids may be deleted or replaced by other amino acid s , B is a peptide of the formula Ib below in which one to three amino acids may be deleted or re placed by other amino acid s , X is a polypeptide, Y is Met, and m, n and p are 1 or 0 the formula Ia being as follows Thr Pro Ser Asp Lys Pro Val Ala His Val Val Ala Asn Pro Gln Ala Glu Gly Gln Leu Gln Trp Leu Asn Arg Arg Ala Asn Ala Leu Leu Ala Asn Gly Val Glu Leu Arg Asp Asn Gln Leu Val Val Pro Ser Glu Gly Leu Tyr Leu Ile Tyr Ser Gln Val Leu Phe Lys Gly Gln Gly Cys Pro Ser Thr His Val Leu Leu Thr His Thr lie Ser Arg Ile Ala Val Ser Tyr Gln Thr Lys Val Asn Leu Leu Ser Ala Ile Lys Ser Pro Cys Gln Arg Glu Thr Pro Glu Gly Ala Glu Ala Lys Pro Trp Tyr Glu Pro Ile Tyr Leu Gly Gly Val Phe Gln Leu Glu Lys Gly Asp Arg Leu Ser Ala Glu Ile Asn Arg Pro Asp Tyr Leu Asp Phe Ala Glu Ser Gly Gln Val Tyr Phe Gly Ile Ile Ala Leu ... Ial and the formula Ib being as follows Ser Ser Ser Arg ... Ib . A preferred example of the polypeptide represented by X in formula 1I is a polypeptide represented by the following formula Ic Ser Thr Glu Ser Met Ile Arg Asp Val Glu Leu Ala Glu Glu Ala Leu Pro Lys Lys Thr Gly Gly Pro Gln Gly Ser Arg Arg Cys Leu Phe Leu Ser Leu Phe Ser Phe Leu Ile Val Ala Gly Ala Thr Thr Leu Phe Cys Leu Leu His Phe Gly Val lie Gly Pro Gln Arg Glu Glu Phe Pro Arg Asp Leu Ser Leu Ile Ser Pro Leu Ala Gln Ala Val Arg ... Ic . Specific examples of the base sequences corresponding to the amino acid sequences represented by the above formulae Ia , Ib and Ic are those represented respectively by the following formulae fIaf, IIb and I Icl. 5 ACC CCG AGT GAC AAG CCT GTA GCC CAT GTT GTA GCA AAC CCT CAA GCT GAG GGG CAG CTC CAG TGG CTG AAC CGC CGG GCC AAT GCC CTC CTG GCC AAT GGC GTG GAG CTG AGA GAT AAC CAG CTG GTG GTG CCA TCA GAG GGC CTG TAC CTC ATC TAC TCC CAG GTC CTC TTC AAG GGC CAA GGC TGC CCC TCC ACC CAT GTG CTC CTC ACC CAC ACC ATC AGC CGC ATC GCC GTC TCC TAC CAG ACC AAG GTC AAC CTC CTC TCT GCC ATC AAG AGC CCC TGC CAG AGG GAG ACC CCA GAG GGG GCT GAG GCC AAG CCC TGG TAT GAG CCC ATC TAT CTG GGA GGG GTC TTC CAG CTG GAG AAG GGT GAC CGA CTC AGC GCT GAG ATC AAT CGG CCC GAC TAT CTC GAC TTT GCC GAG TCT GGG CAG GTC TAC TTT GGG ATC ATT GCC CTG 3 ... IIal 5 TCA TCT TCT CGA 3 ... IIb 5 AGC ACT GAA AGC ATG ATC CGG GAC GTG GAG CTG GCC GAG GAG GCG CTC CCC AAG AAG ACA GGG GGG CCC CAG GGC TCC AGG CGG TGC TTG TTC CTC AGC CTC TTC TCC TTC CTG ATC GTG GCA GGC GCC ACC ACG CTC TTC TGC CTG CTG CAC TTT GGA GTG ATC GGC CCC CAG AGG GAA GAG TTC CCC AGG GAC CTC TCT CTA ATC AGC CCT CTG GCC CAG GCA GTC AGA 3 IIc . It should be understood that the DNAs in accordance with this invention include the following DNAs. 1 DNAs encoding a human TNF polypeptide or its principal portoin s . 2 DNAs being an allelic mutant of a DNA encoding a human TNF polypeptide or its principal portion s . 3 DNAs resulting from modification of DNAs encoding a human TNF polypeptide or its allelic mutant polypeptide. 4 DNAs resulting from chemical or enzymatic modification of DNAs encoding a human TNF polypeptide or its allelic mutant polypeptide. 5 Partially or fully chemically synthesized DNAs corresponding to DNAs encoding a human TNF polypeptide or its principal portion 8 . 6 DNAs encoding a polypeptide of which activity is essentially equivalent to that of a human TNF polypeptide or its principal portion s . 7 Any degenerative DNAs encoding a human TNF polypeptide or its principal portion s . 8 DNAs encoding a human TNF polypeptide in which one or more codons are deleted or replaced by other codon s . 9 DNAs encoding a human TNF polypeptide or its principal portion s and having an initiation codon and or termination codon and or a promoter followed by ShineDalgarno sequence upstream of the initiation codon. 10 DNAs containing a base sequence which differs from the base sequence encoding rabbit TNF but has high homology to a portion s of the base sequence encoding rabbit TNF. Preferred DNAs in accordance with this invention are 1 DNA having a base sequence corresponding to an amino acid sequence represented by formula I in which A is formula lal, B is formula Ib , X is formula Ic , m and n are 1, and Y and p are the same as defined in formula I1 s 2 DNA having a base sequence corresponding to an amino acid sequence represented by formula I in which A is formula Ia , B is formula Ib , m is 1, n is 0, and Y and p are the same as defined in formula I1 and 3 DNA having a base sequence cortesponding to an amino acid sequence represented by formula I in which A is formula Ial, m and n are 0 and Y and p are the same as defined in formula 11. An especially preferred DNA is one having a base sequence corresponding to an amino acid sequence represented by formula I in which A is formula Ia , B is formula Ib , m is 1 or 0, and n and p are 0. The base sequence corresponding to an amino acid sequence of formula I in which A is formula ill, B is formula Ib , X is formula Ic , and m, n and p are each 1 is shown by the sequence of the bases Nos. 1 to 699 inTable 4 in which the bases are numbered. The base sequence corresponding to the amino acid sequence of formula Ia is shown by the sequence of the bases Nos. 247 to 699 in Table 4, and the total number of amino acids corresponding to this base sequence is 151. In Table 4, the upper rows show the base sequence, and the lower rows, the corresponding amino acid sequence. Examples of the polypeptide of formula Ia3 in which one or more amino acids are deleted or replaced include t4 a polypeptide of formula Ia in which Thr in the first position from the N terminus has been deleted 5 a polypeptide of formula Ia in which the amino acid sequence from Thr in the 1st position to Pro in the 6th position from the N terminus has been deleted 6 a polypeptide of formula Ia in which the amino acid sequence from Thr in the 1st position to His in 9th position from the N terminus has been deleted 7 a polypeptide of formula Ia in which the amino acid sequence from Thr in the 1st position to Ala in the 12th position from the N terminus has been deleted and 8 a polypeptide of formula Ia in which the Thr and His in the 66th and 67th positions from the N terminus have been replaced by His, Thr or Tyr. The present inventors hold the view that at least 9 a base sequence of the 577th to the 708th bases in the upper rows of Table 5, and especially 10 a base sequence of the 658th to the 708th bases in the upper rows of Table 5 are important base sequences of DNA coding for a polypeptide having biological activity. I 3 Processes for the production of the DNAs of the invention will be described hereinbelow. According to this invention, the DNA encoding a human TNF polypeptide or a principal portion thereof can be produced by cultivating human macrophages together with inducer s , separating a fraction containing human TNF mRNA from the induced cells, preparing a cDNA library from the fraction, and cloning the human TNF cDNA by a differential hybridization method using a suitable probe, for example a rabbit TNF cDNA fragment, or by a differential hybridization method followed by mRNA hybridization translation assay. In other words, it can be produced through the following steps. A. Cultivating human macrophages with inducer s , B. separating a fraction containing human TNF mRNA from the induced cells, C. preparing sscDNA from the mRNA by using reverse transcriptase and then converting it to dscDNA, D. inserting the dscDNA into a vector, E. introducing the recombinant vector into a host to transform it and construct a cDNA colony library, and F. cloning cDNA encoding a human TNF polypeptide or its principal portion from the library. If desired, modification step G of the DNA produced as above can give other DNAs of this invention which have or contain a base sequence corresponding to the amino acid sequence represented by formula II . Now, the processes for producing the DNA of this invention will be described in more detail. It should be understood however that the operations and conditions in the individual steps of the processes to be described hereinbelow are well known in the art, and the processes of this invention are never limited to these specific processes. 1 Preparation of human TNF mRNA The human TNF mRNA can be obtained from human macrophages, for example by the following method. Human macrophages are obtained, for example, from human alveolus by the method of Sone, et al. 1J. Immunol., 129, 1313 1982 , from blood by the method of Matthews Br. J. Cancer, 48, 405 1983 1, from placenta by the method of Wilson, et al., J. Immunological Methods, 56, 305 1983 1, or from other tissues. The macrophages obtained thus are seeded in a dish at a cell density of about 2 x 104 to 1 x 106 cells per cmê, and pre cultivated at 35 to 38 C, preferably about 37 C in a fully humidified atmosphere containing 5 carbon dioxide for about 30 minutes to 2 hours. Then, endotoxin obtained from a gram negative bacterium, preferably lipopolysaccharide derived fromEscherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa or Salmonella typhi, is added as an inducer, and cycloheximide is added as a protein synthesis inhibitor. The cultivation is continued further for 3 to 8 hours to accumulate human TNF mRNA in the macrophages. The pre cultivation may be omitted. The amount of endotoxin is generally about 0.1 to 1000 micrograms ml, preferably about 1 to 100 micrograms ml. At this time, a phorbol ester such as phorbol 12 myristate l3 acetate, phorbol 12,13 didecanoate or phorbol 12,13 dibenzoate may be further added as an inducer in an amount of about 1 to 2000 ng ml. The amount of the protein synthesis inhibitor varies depending upon its type.For example, in the case of cycloheximide, it is 0.1 to 50 micrograms ml. Various culture media suitable for the cultivation of mammalian cells can be used as the culture medium. Examples include RPMI 1640, Eagle s MEM medium, and Dulbecco s modified MEM medium for the compositions of the above media, see, for example, Cell CultivationManual edited by Y. Sohmura, Kodansha 1982 , and J.Paul Cell and Tissue Culture , E. S. Livingstone Ltd. 1970 . Preferably, an animal serum such as fetal bovine serum or calf serum is added to the culture medium in an amount of about 1 to 20 . After the cultivation, total RNA is extracted from the cells by a customary method, for example the method of Chirgwin et al. Biochemistry, 18, 5294 1979 , and then by affinity column chromatography on oligo dT cellulose or poly U Sepharose, or by a batch method, a fraction containing poly A mRNA is separated. An enriched mRNA fraction with human TNF mRNA can be obtained by subjecting the poly A mRNA fraction to acid urea agarose gel electrophoresis or sucrose density gradient centrifugation. To confirm that the resulting mRNA fraction is the desired one containing mRNA encoding human TNF polypeptide, the mRNA is translated into a protein and its biological activity is examined. This can be carried out, for example, by injecting the mRNA into the oocytes ofXenopus laevis or adding it to a suitable protein synthesizing system, such as a reticulocyte lysate or wheat germ cell free protein synthesizing system and by confirming that the translated protein has cytotoxic activity on mouse L cells in vitro. 2 Cloning of human TNF cDNA The poly A mRNA or the enriched mRNA fraction obtained in step 1 above is used as a template and an oligo dT is used as a primer in order to synthesize sscDNA by using reverse transcriptase for example, that derived from avian myeloblastosis virus AMV in the presence of dATP, dGTP, dCTP and dTTP. Then, the sscDNA is used as a template, and dscDNA is synthesized by using reverse transcriptase or E. coli DNA polymerase I large fragment . The resulting dscDNA is inserted, for example, into the restriction endonuclease Pst I cleavage site of plasmid pBR322 by a conventional method, for example the poly dG poly dC homopolymer extension method 1T. S.Nelson Methods in Enzymology , 68, 41 1979 , AcademicPress Inc., New York . The resulting recombinant plasmids are introduced into a host such as E. coli x 1776 in accordance with the method of Cohen et al. Proc. Nat.Acad. Sci., USA, 69, 2110 1972 to transform it, and by selecting tetracycline resistant colonies, a cDNA colony library is prepared. The cDNA library is subjected to colony hybridization D. Hanahan et al., Gene, 10, 63 1980 by using a 32P labelled rabbit TNF cDNA fragment obtained in Referential Example 1 as a probe, and the desired clones harboring recombinant plasmids containing a cDNA insert encoding human TNF polypeptide are screened. If such a suitable TNF cDNA probe as shown above cannot be obtained, the desired clones are screened by colony hybridization using induction plus and minus probes, and by hybridization translation assay as follows. A 32P labelled cDNA is synthesized using the poly A mRNA fraction or the enriched mRNA fraction containing the human TNF mRNA obtained in step 1 as a template and used as an induction plus probe. Separately, a mRNA fraction, obtained by the same procedure as above except that non induced macrophages are used as a starting material, is used as a template and 32P labelled cDNA is synthesized. The 32P labelled cDNA is used as an induction minus probe. From the above cDNA library, plasmid clones which are strongly hybridized with the induction plus probe but not hybridized with the induction minus probe are selected. The following method is carried out in order to confirm that the resulting clones harbor a cDNA insert encoding human TNF polypeptide. The plasmid DNAs are isolated from the above clones, converted to a singlestranded DNA by heating or alkali treatment, and fixed onto nitrocellulose filters. The mRNA fraction containing humanTNF mRNA is added to the filters to hybridize with the fixed DNA. Then, the hybridized mRNA is eluted and recovered. The recovered mRNA is injected into the oocytes of Xenopus laevis to determine whether the recovered mRNA encodes human TNF polypeptide. The above methods give transformants havoring a recombinant plasmid having a DNA fragment containing a base sequence complementary to the human TNF mRNA. When the obtained cloned cDNAs do not contain the whole coding region of human TNF polypeptide, cDNAs of a larger size are selected by screening the cDNA library using as a probe the cloned TNF cDNA fragments from the transformants selected as above. The cloned cDNA encoding a polypeptide containing the amino acid sequence of human TNF polypeptide can be proned finally by analyzing the base sequences of some of the resulting cloned cDNA fragments in accordance with, for example, the Maxam Gilbert method Proc. Nat, Acad. Sci.,USA, 74, 560 1977 searching for base sequence which have a homology with the base sequence of rabbit TNF cDNA, and selecting cDNAs containing a base sequence corresponding to the whole coding region of human TNF polypeptide. Homology between the base sequence coding for rabbit TNF and that coding for human TNF polypeptide, and homology between the deduced amino acid sequences of rabbitTNF and human TNF polypeptide are shown in Tables 5 and 6, respectively. By judging from these homologies and the determined N terminal and C terminal amino acid sequences of rabbit plasma TNF see Referential Example 3 below , it is found that human TNF cDNA codes for its precursor polypeptide of 233 amino acid residues and a mature human TNF polypeptide is a polypeptide corresponding to the 155 amino acid residues from the carboxy terminus of its precursor. The mature human TNF polypeptide is coded in the base sequence corresponding to an amino acid sequence represented by formula I in which A is formula Ia , B is formula Ib , m is 1, and n and p are 0. The human TNF precursor polypeptide is coded in the base sequence corresponding to an amino acid sequence represented by formula I in which A is formula Ia , B is formula Ib , X is formula lIC , and m, n and p are 1, andY is Met. High homologies in the base sequences and the deduced amino acid sequences as above may indicate that the human and rabbit TNFs are phylogenetically derived from the same gene, and suggest that a considerable portion s of the common regions are a sequence necessary for expressing their biological activities. However, mature human TNF polypeptide did not cross immunologically with rabbit plasma TNF as shown below. It is indicated that the whole amino acid sequence of mature human TNF polypeptide is not always necessary for expressing the activities, and that a partially modified human TNF polypeptide also has the activities so long as it contains an active site of the mature TNF polypeptide. 3 Modification of the DNA encoding human TNF poly peptide The DNA encoding the human TNF polypeptide can be modified by techniques known per se to form DNAs having or containing a base sequence corresponding to the amino acid sequence represented by formula I . Modification is carried out, for example, by cleaving the DNA with suitable restriction endonuclease s and splitting off one or more codons with suitable exonucleases and or endonucleases singly or in combination, followed by replacing with degenerative or other codons, for example, those synthesized chemically by the phosphotriester method Ohtsuka, E., et al., Heterocycles, 15, 395 1981 1, or by ligating without any supplement of codons to prepare DNA having one or more codons deleted. II 1 The present invention, as stated above, also relates to a polypeptide having or containing a human tumor necrosis factor polypeptide or its principal portion s , a human tumor necrosis factor like substance, its principal portion s and their chemically or enzymatically modified substances. They are more specifically a polypeptide of the following formula I . Y X B m A I or its derivative or a salt thereof, wherein A is a polypeptide of the formula lIa below in which one or more amino acids may be deleted or replaced by other amino acid s , B is a peptide of the formula Ib below in which one to three amino acids may be deleted or re placed by other amino acid s , X is a polypeptide, Y is Met, and m, n and p are 1 or 0 the formula Ia being as follows Thr Pro Ser Asp Lys Pro Val Ala His Val Val Ala Asn Pro Gln Ala Glu Gly Gln Leu Gln Trp Leu Asn Arg Arg Ala Asn Ala Leu Leu Ala Asn Gly Val Glu Leu Arg Asp Asn Gln Leu Val Val Pro Ser Glu Gly Leo Tyr Leu Ile Tyr Ser Gln Val Leu Phe Lys Gly Gln Gly Cys Pro Ser Thr His Val Leu Leu Thr His Thr Ile Ser Arg Ile Ala Val Ser Tyr Gln Thr Lys Val Asn Leu Leu Ser Ala Ile Lys Ser Pro Cys Gln Arg Glu Thr Pro Glu Gly Ala Glu Ala Lys Pro Trp Tyr Glu Pro Ile Tyr Leu Gly Gly Val Phe Gln Leu Glu Lys Gly Asp Arg Leu Ser Ala Glu Ile Asn Arg Pro Asp Tyr Leu Asp Phe Ala Glu Ser Gly Gln Val Tyr Phe Gly Ile Ile Ala Leu ... lIa and the formula Ib being as follows Ser Ser Ser Arg ... Ibl. A preferred example of the polypeptide represented by X in formula I is a polypeptide represented by the following formula Icl. Ser Thr Glu Ser Met Ile Arg Asp Val Glu Leu Ala Glu Glu Ala Leu Pro Lys Lys Thr Gly Gly Pro Gln Gly Ser Arg Arg Cys Leu Phe Leu Ser Leu Phe Ser Phe Leu Ile Val Ala Gly Ala Thr Thr Leu Phe Cys Leu Leu His Phe Gly Val Ile Gly Pro Gln Arg Glu Glu Phe Pro Arg Asp Leu Ser Leu Ile Ser Pro Leu Ala Gln Ala Val Arg ... Ici. It should be understood that the polypeptides in accordance with this invention include the following polypeptides. 1 A polypeptide corresponding to the DNA of this invention described in section I above which is produced by host transformed with an expression vector having the aforesaid DNA inserted there into 2 a human TNF polypeptide or its precursor polypeptide 3 a human TNF polypeptide in which one or more amino acids are deleted or replaced by other amino acid s 4 a polypeptide consisting of a principal portion of the human TNF polypeptide 5 a polypeptide which differs from rabbit TNF polypeptide but contains or has a peptide having high homology to a portion s of rabbit TNF polypeptide 6 a degradated product of the human TNF polypeptide degradated in a host 7 a polypeptide resulting from chemical or enzymatic modification of the human TNF polypeptide, or its derivative and 8 a polypeptide possessing or potentially possessing biological activities substantially equivalent to those of the human TNF polypeptide. Preferred polypeptides in accordance with this invention are as follows 1 A polypeptide of formula I in which A is formula Ia , B is formula Ib , m is 1, n is 0, and Y and p are the same as defined in formula I , 2 a polypeptide of formula I in which A is formula Ia , m and n are 0 and Y and p are the same as defined in formula I , and 3 a polypeptide of formula I in which A is formula Ial, B is formula lIb , X is formula Ic , m and n are 1, and Y and p are the same as defined in formula I . An especially preferred polypeptide is a polypeptide of formula I in which A is formula lIa , B is formula libel, m is 1 or 0, and n and p are 0, or its physiologically acceptable salts. The polypeptide of formula lIa is a polypeptide having the amino acid sequence from the 86th to 236th bases in the upper rows of Table 6. Polypeptides of formula Ia in which one or more amino acids have been deleted or replaced include, for example, the following polypeptides. 4 A polypeptide of formula Ia in which Thr in the 1st position from the N terminus has been deleted 5 a polypeptide of formula Ial in which the amino acid sequence from Thr in the 1st position to Pro in the 6th position from the N terminus has been deleted 6 a polypeptide of formula Ia in which the amino acid sequence from Thr in the 1st position to His in the 9th position from the N terminus has been deleted 7 a polypeptide of formula Ia in which the amino acid sequence from Thr in the 1st position to Ala in the 12th position from the N terminus has been deleted and 8 a polypeptide of formula Ial in which the Thr and His in the 66th and 67th positions from the N terminus have been replaced by His, Thr or Tyr. The present inventors hold the view that at least 9 an amino acid sequence from Trp in the 193rd position to Leu in the 236th position in the upper rows of Table 6, and especially 10 an amino acid sequence from Tyr in the 220th position to Leu in the 236th position in the upper rows of Table 6 are important amino acid sequences of a polypeptide having biological activity. The derivatives of the polypeptides of formula I may, for example, be those formed by utilizing the side chain functinal groups on the chain of the polypeptide of formula I , the amino group at the N terminus, or the carboxyl group at the C terminus, such as an ester formed between the carboxyl group and an aliphatic alcohol, an acid amide formed between the primary or secondary amine with an acid or its derivative, or an O acyl derivative of the hydroxyl group. The salts of the polypeptides 1I3 are salts formed with the carboxyl or amino group of the polypeptides I , for example salts formed with sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, arginine, caffeine, procaine, hydrochloric acid, and gluconic acid. The polypeptides I may exist as their aggregates, such as a trimer, and such aggregates are naturally included within the polypeptides of this invention. II 2 Processes for the production of the polypeptides of this invention will be described hereinbelow. According to this invention, a polypeptide having or containing a human TNF polypeptide or a principal portion thereof can be produced by the following steps. A. Inserting the DNA having or containing a base sequence encoding human TNF polypeptide or its principal portion, or its modified base sequence into an expression vector, B. introducing the recombinant vector into a host, C. cultivating the host transformed with the recom binant vector to produce the polypeptide, D. collecting the cultured cells and extracting the polypeptide produced from them, and E. purifying the polypeptide by conventional puri fying methods for proteins. If desired, the polypeptide produced through the above steps may be modified step F to produce other polypeptides of this invention represented by formula I , or their derivatives or salts. 1 Production of human TNF polypeptide A detailed description will follow of the processes for producing the human TNF polypeptide by using theDNA of this invention. An expression vector for production of human TNF polypeptide can be obtained by inserting the cloned cDNA encoding human TNF polypeptide into a suitable vector. All vectors which proliferate in microorganisms to be transformed can be used. Examples include plasmids such as E.coli plasmid pBR322 , phages such as phage derivatives , and viruses such as SV40 . They may be used singly or in combination, for example as a pBR322 SV40 hybrid plasmid.The site of insertion of the DNA can be properly selected. In other words, a suitable site of a suitable vector may be cleaved with a suitable restriction endonuclease in a customary manner, and the cloned cDNA of a suitable length may be inserted into the cleavage site. More specifically, an expression vector for production of the non fused polypeptide is constructed by joining a DNA fragment containing the base sequence encoding the human TNF polypeptide in which the initiation codonATG is added to the 5 terminus and the termination codon 1TAA, TAG or TGA exists at the 3 terminus, to a DNA fragment with a suitable promoter and the Shine Dalgarno sequence and inserting it into a vector. An expression vector for the production of the fused polypeptide may be constructed by inserting the cDNA fragment having the base sequence encoding the human TNF polypeptide in which the termination codon is added to the 3 terminus into the vector so that the translational reading frame coincides with that of the structure gene to be fused.The process for the production of human TNF polypeptide as a fused polypeptide has the advantage of minimizing degradation of the product in the transformed host cells. In this case, human TNF polypeptide should be cut out from the fused product. Mature human TNF polypeptide corresponding to an amino acid sequence from Ser in the 82nd position to Leu in the 236th position in the upper rows of Table 6 does not contain any methionine as a component.Therefore, by using an expression vector constructed by inserting the human TNF cDNA fragment ligated with the 3 terminus of the base sequence of a structure gene to be fused through a methionine codon ATG , the human TNF polypeptide is easily obtained from the fused product by a method of cleavage of methionyl peptide bond, for example, by a cyanogen bromide treatment Itakura, K., et al., Science 198, 1054 1977 . Examples of the promoters are lac, trp, tac, phoS, phoA, PL and SV40 early promoters. Transformants are obtained by introducing the expression vector into a host such as microorganism, animal or plant cells. For example, E. coli is transformed by the method of Cohen et al. Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci., USA, 69, 2110 1972 . Then, by cultivating one of the transformants, a human TNF polypeptide or the polypeptide with a methionine at its N terminus is produced. The product can be accumulated either in the cytoplasm or in the periplasm of the host cells depending upon the method of constructing the expression vector.To cause the polypeptide to be secreted in the periplasm, one can construct an expression vector by using a gene coding for a secretory protein, such as an alkaline phosphatase gene phoA or a phosphate binding protein gene phoS , and joining DNA encoding the human TNF polypeptide in the correct translational reading frame to the above gene at a suitable site following a DNA region encoding the signal peptide. The resulting transformants are cultivated under suitable conditions for the transformants until the polypeptide desired is fully produced. Then, the polypeptide is extracted from the culture. When the produced polypeptide is accumulated in the cytoplasm, the host cells are destroyed by lysozyme digestion and freezing and thawing or sonication or by using a French press, and then centrifuged or filtered to collect the extract. When it is accumulated in the periplasm, it can be extracted, for example, by the method of Willsky et al. 1J. Bacteriol., 127, 595 1976 j. The crude polypeptide so obtained can be purified by conventional purifying methods for proteins, for example by combinations of salting out, ultrafiltration, dialysis, ion exchange chromatography, gel filtration, electrophoresis, affinity chromatography, etc. By the foregoing process, the human TNF polypeptide of the invention and or the polypeptide with a methionine at the N terminus of the polypeptide can be produced. Polypeptides in accordance with this invention other than the human TNF polypeptide and the polypeptide with a methionine at the N terminus of the polypeptide can also be produced by using the desired DNA substantially in accordance with the above process, or by using proper combinations of known processes. 2 Modification of human TNF polypeptide The modified human TNF polypeptides mean polypeptides derived from the allelic mutants of the DNA encoding human TNF polypeptide allelic mutant polypeptide , a polypeptide resulting from addition of an amino acid or peptide consisting of two or more amino acids to theN terminus or C terminus of the human TNF polypeptide or the allelic mutant polypeptide, a polypeptide resulting from deletion of one or more amino acids from the human TNF polypeptide or the allelic mutant polypeptide for example, deletion of 4 amino acids from the N terminus of human TNF polypeptide as shown in Section III 1, 6 below , derivatives such as esters, acyl derivatives or acid amides, formed by using a functional group in the molecule, an amino residue of N terminus or a carboxy residue of theC terminus, and its salt formed by using amino residues or carboxy residues with, for example, sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, arginine, caffeine, procaine, hydrochloric acid, gluconic acid and so on. Modification of the human TNF polypeptide or its allelic mutant polypeptide is carried out by techniques known per se, which are published in, for example, Chemical Modification of Proteins, by Means, G.E. andFeeney, R.E., Holden Day, Inc. California 1971 , to produce the modified human TNF polypeptide as mentioned above. III The chemical and physicochemical properties, biological activities and immunological property of the typical polypeptides of this invention will be described below in detail. Purified human TNF polypeptide obtained in Example 4 to be referred to as recombinant human TNF, abbreviated to rHu TNF was used for analyses as shown below. III 1 Chemical and physicochemical properties 1 Molecular weight The molecular weight of rHu TNF was measured by gel filtration analysis with TSK gel G3000 SW column 7.5 x 600 mm, Toyo Soda in accordance with highperformance liquid chromatography using 0.2M phosphate tpH 7 buffer with and without 8M urea and 0.58 2 mercaptoethanol as a solvent. As molecular weight marker proteins, the following proteins were used bovine serum albumin MW 6.6 x 104 , rabbit triosephosphate isomerase MW 5.3 x 104 , ovalbumin MW 4.5 x 104 , porcine pepsin MW 3.27 x 104 , soybean trypsin inhibitor MW 2.05 x 104 , horse myoglobin MW 1.78 x 104 , and horse cytochrome c MW 1.24 x 104 . As a result, rHu TNF had a molecular weight of 45,000 5,000 daltons and 18,000 3,000 daltons in the absence and presence of urea and 2 mercaptoethanol, respectively. The cDNA inserted into the expression plasmid pHTR91 encoded 155 amino acid residues omitting a methionine derived from an initiation codon ATG . The theoretical molecular weight of rHu TNF was calculated as 17,097 daltons from the amino acid sequence deduced. The calculated molecular weight agreed with the value determined in the presence of urea and 2 mercaptoethanol. This finding indicates that rHu TNF occurs as a monomer subunit in the presence of urea and 2 mercaptoethanol, but exists as an aggregate, for example a trimer in the absence of denaturants. 2 Isoelectric Point The isoelectric point was determined by isoelectrofocusing gel electrophoresis at 3 watt for 3 hours using a 5 polyacrylamide flat gel with a pH gradient ranging from pH 4.0 to pH 6.5 created with Pharmalyte Pharmacia . Protein was stained with Coomassie brilliant blue. Separately, the gel was sliced into 3 mm width and immersed in 20 mM Tris HC1 pH 7.8 buffer to elute a protein. Cytotoxic activity was obviously detected in an elute from the gel sliced from the position corresponding to the position of a protein detected by the staining. Isoelectric point of rHu TNF was found to be 5.9 0.3. 3 Amino acid composition The amino acid composition of rHu TNF was determined with a micro amino acid analyzer Shimadzu Seisakusho by a fluorometric method using orthophthalaldehyde after the sample was hydrolyzed with hydrochloric acid. Fifty micrograms of rHu TNF was hydrolyzed in 6N HCl at 110 0C. The contents of the amino acids were calculated by correcting on the basis of the values determined with each sample hydrolyzed for 24, 48 and 72 hours.Cystine or cysteine was determined as a cysteic acid converted by performic acid oxidation. Tryptophan was determined by a fluorometric method of Pajot Eur. J.Biochem., 63, 263 1976 l. The results are summarized in Table 7. The amino acid composition well agreed with that deduced from the base sequence encoding human TNF polypeptide. 4 Determination of N terminal amino acid sequence The N terminal amino acid sequence of rHu TNF was determined by the Edman degradation method Arch. Biochem.Biophys., 22, 475 1949 1. A phenylthiohydantoin amino acid derived from aN terminal amino acid by the Edman degradation method was identified by high performance liquid chromatography using a column 4.6 x 250 mm of TSK gel ODS 120A Toyo Soda .These procedures were serially repeated to determine a newly formed N terminal amino acid sequentially. It was consequently found that the N terminal amino acid sequence of rHu TNF was as follows NH2 Ser Ser Ser Arg Thr Pro Ser Asp It has been known that some polypeptides produced in microorganisms by application of the recombinant DNA technology have a methionine residue derived from an initiation codon ATG at its N terminus. However, in the case of rHu TNF obtained in Example 5, a methionine residue could not be detected at the N terminus and completely removed off. 5 Determination of C terminal amino acid sequence The C terminal amino acid sequence of rHu TNF was determined by the enzymatic method using carboxypeptidases. The rHu TNF was digested with carboxypeptidase A and carboxypeptidase Y at the molar ratios of enzyme to substrate of 1 25 and 1 1,000, respectively. The free amino acids released from the C terminus of rHu TNF by the double digestion were identified by a micro amino acid anayzer Shimadzu Seisakusho at appropriate intervals from 2 minutes to 180 minutes after the digestion. It was consequently found that the C terminal amino acid sequence of rHu TNF was as follows Tyr Phe Gly Ile Ile Ala Leu COOH 6 Trypsin digestion of rHu TNF Five hundred micrograms of rHu TNF was digested with 20 micrograms of TPCK treated trypsin type XIII,SIGMA Chemical Co. in 5 mM Tris HCl pH 7.8 buffer at room temperature for 5 hours. The digested product was subjected to a preparative isoelectrofocusing gel electrophoresis as shown in Example 4 2 . The proteins were stained with Coomassie brilliant blue. Separately, the gel was sliced into 3 mm width and the sliced gels were immersed in 20 mM Tris HCl pH 7.8 buffer to elute a protein. As a result, the digested product eluted from the sliced gel corresponding to the pH zone being about 0.3 lower than the isoelectric point of rBu TNF had cytotoxic activity. The digested product with cytotoxic activity was subjected to determination of the N terminal and C terminal amino acid sequences by the methods as described in sections 5 and 6 , respectively. Consequently, the partial amino acid sequence of the digested product were as follows N terminal NH2 Thr Pro Ser Asp C terminal Ile Ala Leu COOH By judging from the amino acid sequence, the digested product is a polypeptide resulting from splitting off of the four N terminal amino acids Ser Ser Ser Arg from the rHu TNF, and has a cytotoxic activity as mentioned above. It means that at least four amino acids at theN terminus of rHu TNF are not essential to its biological activity. 111 2 Biological activities 1 Cytotoxic activity against mouse L N cell The method of measuring the cytotoxic activity against mouse L M cell ATCC, CCL 1.2 was as follows A sample 0.1 ml diluted serially with the below mentioned medium and 0.1 ml of a mouse L M cell suspension 1 x 105 cells ml were added to each well of a 96 well multi well plate Flow Labs. . The Eagle s minimum essential medium see, for example, J. Paule Cell andTissue Culture , E S. Livingstone Ltd. 1970 3 containing 1 fetal bovine serum was used. The plate was incubated at 37 0C for 48 hours in a fully humidified atmosphere containing 5 carbon dioxide. After incubation, 20 microliters of 25 glutaraldehyde was added to fix the viable cells.After fixation, the plate was washed and dried.Then, 0.1 ml of 0.05 methylene blue solution was added to stain the fixed cells. The excess of methylene blue was washed off, and the plate was dried. Methylene blue associated with the fixed cells was eluted with 200 microliters of 0.36N HC1 and its absorbance at 665 nm was measured with a Titertek Multiscan Flow Labs. . The absorbance is proportional to the number of the viable cells. The concentration of biological activity required to kill 50 of the L M cells was defined as one unit ml.The cytotoxic acitivity against mouse L M cells determined under the conditions as above was represented by units LM , to distinguish from the cytotoxic activity against mouse L 929 cells as a target cell. The protein content was determined by the method of Lowry, O.H., et al. J. Bio. Chem., 193, 265 1951 1. As a result the rHu TNF had a specific activity of 2 x 106 units LM or more per mg of protein. 2 Antitumor effect on Meth A sarcoma transplanted into mice The antitumor effect on mice bearing Meth A sarcoma was evaluated by the following method. BALB c mice weighing about 23 g were intradermally transplanted with 2 x 105 Meth A sarcoma cells into the abdominal skin, and seven days later, mice were selected whose tumor was 6 7 mm in diameter. On the 7th day after the tumor transplantation, the rHu TNF was administered into the tumor mass or intravenously. Endotoxin content of the rHu TNF preparation was less than 0.01 ng 4 per 1 x 10 units LM of its cytotoxic activity. As a result, by administration into the tumor mass, a necrotic response in the tumor transplant was observed in all mice injected with rHu TNF at a dose of 1 x l0, 3 x 103 and 1 x 104 units LM per mouse within 24 hours after the injection, and the tumor was completely regressed at a ratio of 3 5, 5 5 and 5 5 at each dose as shown above, respectively. By intravenous administration, a necrotic response was observed in all mice injected with rHu TNF at a dose of 3 x 103 and 1 x 104 units LM per mouse, and the ratio of complete regression was 3 5 and 4 5, respectively. 3 Inhibitory effect of rHu TNF on the growth of human tumor cells in vitro The inhibitory effect of rHu TNF on the growth of human tumor cells and normal cells was evaluated in vitro under the following conditions. Human tumor cells or normal cells were seeded at 1 x 104 cells per well in 1 ml of Eagle s minimum essential medium containing 108 fetal bovine serum using a 24 well multi well plate. rHu TNF was added at a final concentration of 100 units LM ml and then cultivated at 37 0C for 4 days in a fully humidified atmosphere containing 5 carbon dioxide. Four hours before the termination of cultivation, 1 microcurie of 3H thymidine was added into each well. After cultivation, the cells were washed with phosphate buffered saline, and lysed with 0.5 sodium dodecylsulfate.The amount of 3H thymidine incorporated into the cells was determined by counting the radioactivity in the lysate. The inhibitory effect was represented by a ratio of the growth inhibition calculated by the following equation Ratio of growth inhibition a b a x 100 wherein, a and b are the radioactivities incorporated into the cells in the absence of rHu TNF and in the presence of rHu TNF, respectively. The results summarized in Table 8 show that rHu TNF significantly inhibited the growth of human tumor cells, but did not affect normal cells. This finding indicates that rHu TNF attacks tumor cells selectively. III 3 Immunological property The rHu TNF solution 100 units LM ml was mixed with an equal volume of a 100 fold dilution of the purified anti rabbit plasma TNF antibody obtained inReferential Example 4. After incubation at 370C for 2 hours, the cytotoxic activity of the reaction mixture was measured by the method as described above using L M cells as a target cell. As a result, the cytotoxic activity of rHu TNF was not neutralized with the antibody at all. It was found therefore that human TNF polypeptide was immunologically distinguishable from rabbit TNF. IV For formulating the polypeptides of this invention, they may be in the form of a solution or a lyophilized product. From the standpoint of long term stability, they are desirably in the form of lyophilized products.It is preferred to add vehicles or stabilizers to the preparations. Examples of the stabilizers include albumin, globulin, gelatin, protamine, protamine salts, glucose, galactose, xylose, mannitol, glucuronic acid, trehalose, dextran, hydroxyethyl starch, and nonionic surface active agents such as polyoxyethylene fatty acid esters, polyoxyethylene alkyl ethers, polyoxyethylene alkyl phenyl ethers, polyoxyethylene sorbitan fatty acid esters, polyoxyethylene glycerin fatty acid esters, polyoxyethylene hardened castor oil, polyoxyethyene castor oil, polyoxyethylene polyoxypropylene alkyl ethers, polyoxyethylene polyoxypropylene block copolymer, sorbitan fatty acid esters, sucrose fatty acid esters and glycerin fatty acid esters . V The polypeptides of this invention are useful as antitumor agents because they have a selective cytotoxic effect on tumor cells and regress tumors of tumor bearing animals. Such polypeptide preparations are preferably administered parenterally or topically. Parenteral routes such as intraveous and intramuscular routes are used when tumor cells extend over a wide range or metastasize, or when prevention of metastasis is intended. Against local tumor tissues, direct intratumor administration is preferred. The dosage varies depending upon the type and size of tumors, the condition of the patient and the route of administration. Usually, it is 1 x 102 to 1 x 107 units LiM kg, preferably 1 x 103 to 1 x 106 units LM kg. Table 1 1 5 TCA GCT TCT CGG GCC CTG AGT GAC AAGCCT CTA GCC CAC GTA GTA GCA AAC CCC CAAGTG GAG GGC CAG CTC CAG TGG CTG AGC CAGCGT CCC AAC GCC CTC CTC GCC AAC CCC ATGAAG CTC ACG GAC AAC CAG CTG GTG GTG CCCGCC GAC CCC CTG TAC CTC ATC TAC TCC CAGGTT CTC TTC AGC GGT CAA CCC TGC CCC TCCTAC GTG CTC CTC ACT CAC ACT GTC AGC CGCTTC GCC GTC TCC TAC CCG AAC AAG GTC AACCTC CTC TCT GCC ATC AAG AGC CCC TGC CACCGG GAG ACC CCC GAG GAG GCT GAG CCC ATGGCC TGG TAC GAG CCC ATC TAC CTG GCC CCC GTC TTC CAG TTG GAG AAG GGT GAC CCC CTCAGC ACC GAG GTC AAC CAG CCT GAG TAC CTCGAC CTT GCC GAG TCC GGG CAG GTC TAC TTTGGG ATC ATT GCC CTG 3 i li. Table 1 2Ser Ala Ser Arg Ala Leu Ser Asp Lys Pro Leu Ala His Val Val Ala Asn Pro Gln ValGlu Gly Gln Leu Gln Trp Leu Ser Gln ArgAla Asn Ala Leu Leu Ala Asn Gly Met LysLeu Thr Asp Asn Gln Leu Val Val Pro AlaAsp Gly Leu Tyr Leu Ile Tyr Ser Gln ValLeu Phe Ser Gly Gln Gly Cys Arg Ser TyrVal Leu Leu Thr His Thr Val Ser Arg PheAla Val Ser Tyr Pro Asn Lys Val Asn LeuLeu Ser Ala Ile Lys Ser Pro Cys His ArgGlu Thr Pro Glu Glu Ala Glu Pro Met AlaTrp Tyr Glu Pro Ile Tyr Leu Gly Gly ValPhe Gln Leu Glu Lys Gly Asp Arg Leu SerThr Glu Val Asn Gln Pro Glu Tyr Leu AspLeu Ala Glu Ser Gly Gln Val Tyr Phe GlyIle lie Ala Leu Table 2 1 5 AGC ACT GAG AGT ATG ATC CCC GAC GTCGAG CTC CCC GAG GGG CCC CTC CCC AAG AAGGCA GGG GGG CCC CAG CCC TCC AAG CCC TCCCTC TGC CTC AGC CTC TTC TCT TTC CTG CTCGTG GCT GGA GCC ACC ACG CTC TTC TCG CTGCTG CAC TTC AGG GTG ATC CCC CCT CAG GAGGAA GAG CAG TCC CCA AAC AAC CTC CAT CTAGTC AAC CCT GTC GCC CAG ATC GTC ACC CTCAGA TCA GCT TCT CGG GCC CTC AGT GAC AAGCCT CTA GCC CAC GTA GTA GCA AAC CCC CAAGTG GAG GGC CAG CTC CAG TGG CTG AGC CAGCGT CGC AAC GCC CTG CTG GCC AAC GGC ATGAAG CTC ACG GAC AAC CAG CTG GTG GTG CCCGCC GAC GGG CTC TAC CTC ATC TAC TCC CAGGTT CTC TTC AGC GGT CAA GGC TGC CCC TCCTAC GTG CTC CTC ACT CAC ACT GTC AGC CCCTTC GCC GTC TCC TAC CCC AAC AAG GTC AACCTC CTC TCT GCC ATC AAG AGC CCC TGC CACCGG GAG ACC CCC GAG GAG GCT GAG CCC ATGGCC TGG TAC GAG CCC ATC TAC CTC GGC GGCGTC TTC CAG TTG GAG AAG GGT GAC CGG CTCAGC ACC GAG GTC AAC CAG CCT GAG TAC CTCGAC CTT GCC GAG TCC GGG CAG GTC TAC TTTGGG ATC ATT GCC CTG 3 ..... 2 1 Table 2 2Ser Thr Glu Ser Met Ile Arg Asp Val GluLeu Ala Glu Gly Pro Leu Pro Lys Lys AlaGly Gly Pro Gln Gly Ser Lys Arg Cys LeuCys Leu Ser Leu Phe Ser Phe Leu Leu ValAla Gly Ala Thr Thr Leu Phe Cys Leu LeuHis Phe Arg Val Ile Gly Pro Gln Glu GluGlu Gln Ser Pro Asn Asn Leu His Leu ValAsn Pro Val Ala Gln Met Val Thr Leu ArgSer Ala Ser Arg Ala Leu Ser Asp Lys ProLeu Ala His Val Val Ala Asn Pro Gln ValGlu Gly Gln Leu Gln Trp Leu Ser Gln ArgAla Asn Ala Leu Leu Ala Asn Gly Met LysLeu Thr Asp Asn Gln Leu Val Val Pro AlaAsp Gly Leu Tyr Leu Ile Tyr Ser Gln ValLeu Phe Ser Gly Gln Gly Cys Arg Ser TyrVal Leu Leu Thr Bis Thr Val Ser Arg PheAla Val Ser Tyr Pro Asn Lys Val Asn LeuLeu Ser Ala Ile Lys Ser Pro Cys His ArgGlu Thr Pro Glu Glu Ala Glu Pro Met AlaTrp Tyr Glu Pro Ile Tyr Leu Gly Gly ValPhe Gln Leu Glu Lys Gly Asp Arg Leu SerThr Glu Val Asn Gln Pro Glu Tyr Leu AspLeu Ala Glu Ser Gly Gln Val Tyr Phe GlyIle Ile Ala Leu ..... 12 21 Table 3 EMI36.1 SEP 10 SEP 20 SEP 30 SEP HaeII SEP 40 SEP 50 SEP 60 tb GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGCCCTCTGGAGAGAGCGCCATGAGCACTGAGAGTATGATACCGGAC tb CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCGGGAGACCTCTCTCGCGGTACTCGTGACTCTCATACTAGGCCCTG tb SEP 70 SEP 80 SEP 90 SEP 100 SEP 110 SEP 120 tb GTCGAGCTGGCGGAGGGGCCGCTCCCAAGAAGGCAGGGGGGGCCCCAGGGCTCCAAGCGC tb CAGCTCGACCGCCTCCCCGGCGAGGGGTTCTTCCGTCCCCCCGGGGTCCCGAGGTTCGCG tb SEP 130 SEP 140 SEP 150 SEP 160 SEP 170HaeII SEP 180 tb TCGGTCTGCCTCAGCCTCTTCTCTTTCCTGCTCGTGGCTGGAGCCACCACGCTCTTCTGC tb ACGGAGACGGAGTCGGGAGAAGAGAAAGGACGAGCACCGACCTCGGGGTGCGAGAAGACG tb SEP 190 SEP 200 SEP 210 SEP 220 SEP 230 SEP 240 tb CTGCTGACACTTCAGGGTGATCGGCCCTCAGGAGGAAGAGCAGTCCCCAAACAACCTCCAT tb GACGACGTGAAGTCCCACTAGCCGGAGATGCCTCCTTCTCGTCAGGGGTTTGTTGGAGGTA tb SEP 250 SEP 260 SEP 270 SEP 280 SEP AvaI290 SEP 300 tb CTAGTCAACCCTGTGGCCCAGATGGTCACCCTCAGATCAGCTTCTCGGGTCCCTGAGTGAC tb GATCAGTTGGGACACCGGGTCTACCAGTGGGAGTCCTAGTCGAAGAGCCCGGGACTCACTG tb SEP 310 SEP 320 SEP 330 SEP 340 SEP 350 SEP 360 tb AAGCCTCTAGCCCACGTAGTAGCAAACCCGCAAGTCCAGGGCCAGCTCCATCTTGCTGAGC tb TTCGGAGATCGGGTGCATCATCGTTTGGGCGTTCACCTCCCGGTCGAGCTGTCCCGACTCG tb SEP 370 SEP 380 SEP 390 SEP 400 SEP 410 SEP 420 tb CAGCGTGCGAACGCCCTGCTGGCCAACGGCATGAAGCTCACGCCCCACAACAAGCTGGGGTG tb GTCGCACGCTTGCGGGACGACCGGTTGCCGTACTTCGAGTGCCTGTTGGTTTGCGCCACCAC tb to be continued Table 3 continued EMI37.1 SEP 430 SEP 440 SEP 450 SEP 460 SEP 470 SEP 480 tb CCGGCCGACGGGCTGTACCTCATCTACTCCCAGGTTCTCTTACAGCGGTCAAGGCTGCGC tb GGCCGGCTGCCCGACATGGAGTAGATGAGGGTCCAAGAGAAGTCGCCAGTTCCGACGGCG tb SEP 490 SEP 500 SEP 510 SEP 520 SEP 530 SEP 540 tb TCCTACGTGCTCCTCACTCACACTGTCAGCCGCTTCGCCGTCTCCTACCCGAACAAGGTC tb AGGATGCACGAGGAGTGAGTGTGACAGTCGGCGAAGCGGCAGAGGATGGGCTTGTTCCAG tb SEP 550 SEP 560 SEP 570 SEP 580 SEP 590 SEP 600 tb AACCTCCTCTCTGCCATCAAGAGCCCCTGCCACCGGGAGACCCCGAGGAGGCTGAGCCCC tb TTGGAGGAGAGACGGTAGTTCTCGGGGGACGGTGGCCCTCTGGGGGCTCTCCGACTCGGG tb SEP AvaI tb SEP 610 SEP 620 SEP 630 SEP 640 SEP 650 SEP 660 tb ATGGCCTGGTACGAGCCCCATCTACCTGGGCGGCGTCTTCCAGTTGGAGAAGGGTGCCGG tb TACCGGACCATGCTCGGGTAGATGGACCCGCCGCAGAAGGTCAACCTCTTCCCACTTGGCC tb SEP 670 SEP 680 SEP 690 SEP 700 SEP 710 SEP 720 tb CTDCAGCACCGAGGTCAACCAGCCTGAGTACCTGGACCTTGCCGAGTCCGGGCAGGTCTAC tb GAGTCGTGGCTCCAGTTGGTCGGACTCATGGACCATGGAACAGGCTCAGGCCCGTCCAGAT tb SEP 730 SEP 740 SEP 750 SEP 760 SEP 770 SEP 780 tb TTTGGGATCATTGCCCTGTGAGGGGACTGACCACCACTCCTCCCCCTCTTCCCACCCCAGC tb AAACCCTAGTAACGGGACACTCCCCTGACTGGTGGTGAGGAGGGGGAGAGGGGTGGGGTCG tb SEP 790 SEP 800 tb CCCCTCACTCTGGGCGCCCTCAG tb GGGGAGTGAGACCCGCGGGAGTC tb Table 4EMI38.1 tb SEP GACCCACGG tb 30 SEP 20 SEP 10 SEP l tb SEP I SEP I tb SEP CTCCACCCTCTCTCCCCTGGAAAGGACACC tb SEP 1 SEP 10 SEP 20 SEP 30 tb SEP I SEP I SEP . tb SEP ATGAGCACTGAAAGCATGATCCGGGACGTG tb SEP MetSerThrGluSerMetIleArgAspVal tb SEP 40 SEP 50 SEP 60 tb SEP I tb SEP GAGCTGGCCGAGGAGGCGCTCCCCAAGAAG tb SEP GluLeuAlaGluGluAlaLeuProLysLys tb SEP 70 SEP 80 SEP 90 tb SEP I SEP . tb SEP ACAGGGGGGCCCCAGGGCTCCAGGCGGTGC tb SEP ThrGlyGlyProGlnGlySerArgArgCys tb SEP 100 SEP 11,0 SEP 120 tb SEP I SEP I tb SEP TTGTTCCTCAGCCTCTTCTCCTTCCTGATC tb SEP LeuPheLeuSerLeuPheSerPheLeuIle tb SEP 130 SEP 140 SEP 150 tb SEP I tb SEP GTGGCAGGCGCCACCACGCTCTTCTGCCTG tb SEP ValAlaGlyAlaThrThrLeuPheCysLeu tb SEP 160 SEP 170 SEP 180 tb SEP I tb SEP CTGCACTTTGGAGTGATCGGCCCCCAGAGG tb SEP LeuHisPheGlyValIleGlyProGlnArg tb SEP 190 SEP 200 SEP 210 tb SEP I SEP I SEP I tb SEP GAAGAGTTCCCCAGGGACCTCTCTCTAATC tb SEP GluGluPheProArgAspLeuSerLeuIle tb SEP 220 SEP 230 SEP 240 tb SEP I SEP I tb SEP AGCCCTCTGGCCCACCCACTCAGA SEP CATCT tb SEP SerProLeuAlaGlnAlaYalArg SEP RerSer tb SEP 250 SEP 260 SEP 270 tb SEP I SEP I SEP I tb SEP TCTCGAACCCCGAGTGACAAG SEP CCTGTAG SEP CC tb SEP SerArgThrProSerAspLysProValAla tb SEP 280 SEP 290 SEP 300 tb SEP I SEP I tb SEP CATGTTGTAGCAAACCCTCAAGCTGAGGGG tb SEP HisValValAlaAsnProGlnAlaGluGly tb SEP 310 SEP 320 SEP 330 tb SEP I SEP I tb SEP CAGCTCCAGTGGCTGAACCGCCGGGCCAAT tb SEP GlnLeuGlnTrpLeuAsnArgArgAlaAsn tb SEP 340 SEP 350 SEP 360 tb SEP I tb SEP GCCCTCCTGGCCAATGGCGTGGAGCTGAGA tb SEP AlaLeuLeuAlaAsnGlyValGluLeuArg tb to be continued Table 4 continued EMI39.1 tb SEP 370 SEP 380 SEP 390 tb GATAACCAGCTGGTGGTGCCATCAGAGGGC tb AspAsnGlnLeuValValProSerGluGly tb SEP 400 SEP 410 SEP 420 tb SEP I SEP I tb CTGTACCTCATCTACTCCCAGGTCCTCTTC tb LeuTryLeuIleTyrSerGlnValLeuPhe tb SEP 430 SEP 440 SEP 450 tb SEP I SEP I tb AAGGGCCAAGGCTG SEP CCCCTCCACCCATGTG tb LysGlyGlnGlyCysProSerThrHisVal tb SEP 460 SEP 470 SEP 480 tb SEP I tb CTCCTCACCCACACCATCAGCCGCATCGCC tb LeuLeuThrHisThrIleSerArgIleAla tb SEP 490 SEP 500 SEP 510 tb SEP I SEP I tb GTCTCCTACCAGACCAAGGTCAACCTCCTC tb ValSerTyrGlnThrLysValAsnLeuLeu tb SEP 520 SEP 530 SEP 540 tb TCTGCCATCAAGAGCCCCTGCCAGAGGGAG tb SerAlaIleLysSerProCysGlnArgGlu tb SEP 550 SEP 560 SEP 570 tb SEP I SEP I tb ACCCCAGAGGGGGCTGAGGCCAAGCCCTGG tb ThrProGluGlyAlaGluAlaLysProTrp tb SEP 580 SEP 590 SEP 600 tb SEP I tb TATGAGCCCATCTATCTGGGAGGGGTCTTC tb TyrGluProIleTyrLeuGlyGlyValPhe tb SEP 610 SEP 620 SEP 630 tb CAGCTGGAGAAGGGTGACCGACTCAGCGCT tb GlnLeuGluLysGlyAspArgLeuSerAla tb SEP 640 SEP 650 SEP 660 tb SEP I SEP I tb GAGATCAATCGGCCCGACTATCTCGACTTT tb GluIleAsnArgProAspTyrLeuAspPhe tb SEP 670 SEP 680 SEP 690 tb GCCGAGTCTGGGCAGGTCTACTTn GGATC tb AlaGluSerGlyGlnValTyrPheGlyIle tb SEP 00 SEP 710 SEP 720 tb ATTGCCC SEP II SEP GAGGAGGAC I SEP CR tb ATTCCCC SEP CAGCACGACGAACATCCAAC tb IleAlaLe tb SEP 730 SEP 740 tb CTTCCCAAACGCCTCCCCTGC tb Table 5EMI40.1 tb SEP 30 tb ATGAGCACTGAAAGCATGATCCGGGACGTG tb ATGAGCACTGAGAGTATGATCCGGGACGTG tb SEP 60 tb AGCTGGCCGAGGAGGGCGCTCCCCAAGAA tb AGCTGGCCGAGGAGGCCGCTCCCCAAGAA tb SEP gO SEP tb AGGGGGGCCCCAGGGCTCCAGGCGGTG tb GÁGGGGGGCCCCAGGGCTCC SEP CCC tb SEP 120 tb TTGTCCTCAGCCTCTTCTCCTTCCTGATC tb CTCTCCTCAGCCTCTTCTCTTTCCTGCTC tb SEP 150 tb GTGC SEP CCACCACGCTCTTCTCCCTG SEP tb GTGGCTGGAGCCACCACGCTCTTCTGCCTG tb SEP CTGCACTTTTGGAGTGATCGGCCCCCAGAGG tb CTGCACTTCCAGGGTGATCGGCCCTCAGGAG tb GAAAGAG TTCCCCAGGGACCTCTCTCTA tb SEP GAAAGAGCAGTCCCCAAACAACCTCCATCTA tb 240 tb SEP ATCAGCCCTCTGGCCCAG GCAGTC tb GTCAACCCTGTGGCCCAGATGGTCACCCTC tb SEP 270 tb AGATCATCTTCTCGAACCCCGAGTGACCAAG tb AGATCAGCTTCTCGGGCCCTGAGTGACCAAG tb SEP 300 tb CC SEP AGCCC SEP TAGCAAACC SEP tb CCTCTAGCCCACGTAGTAGCAAACC tb SEP 330 tb ACG SEP AGCTCCAGTGGCTG SEP c SEP tb AGGGCCAGCTCCAGTGGCTGAGCCAG tb Upper rows base sequence encoding human TNF precursorLower rows base sequence endoding rabbit TNF precursor Table 5 continued 360EMI41.1 tb CGGGCCAATGCCCTCCTGGCCAATGGCGTG tb SEP CGTGCGAACAGCCCTGCTGGCCAACGCATG tb GAGCTGAGAGATAAACCAGCATGGTGGCCA tb AAGCTCACGGACAACCAGCTGGTGGTGCCG tb SEP TCAGAGGGCCTGTACCTCATCTACTCCCAG tb GCCGACGGGCTGTACCTCATCTACTCCCAG tb 450 tb SEP GTCCTCTTCAAGGGCCAAGGCTGCCCCTCC tb GTTCTCTTCAGCGGTCAAGGCTGCCGCTCC tb ACCCATGTGCTCCTCACCCACACCATCAGC tb TACGTGCTCCTCACTCACACTGTCAGC tb SEP 510 tb CGCATCGCCGTCTCCTACCAGACCAAGGTC tb SEP CGCTTCGCCGTCTCCTACCCGAACAAGGTC tb SEP 540 tb AACCTCCTCTCTGCCATCAAGAGCCCCTGC tb AACCTCCTCTCTGCCATCAAGAGCCCCTGC tb SEP 570 tb CAGAGGGAGACCCCCAGAGGGGGCTGAGGCC tb CACCGGGAGACCCCCGAGGAGGCTGAGCCCC tb SEP 600 tb SEP AAGCCTGGTATGAGCCCATTCTATCTGGGA tb SEP ATGGCCTGGTACGAGCCCATCTACCTGGGC tb GGGGTCTTCCAGCTGGAGAAGGGTGACCGA tb SEP GGCGTCTTCCAGTTGGAGAAGGGTGACCGG tb SEP 660 tb CTCAGCGCTGAGATCAATCGGCCCGACTAT tb CTDCAGCACCGAGGTCAACCAGCCTGGTAC tb 690 tb SEP CTCGACTTTGCCGAGTCTGGGCAGGTCTAC tb CTGGACCTTGCCGAGTCCGGGCAGGTCTAC tb TTTGGGATCATTGCCCCTGTGA tb TTTGGGATCATTGCCCCTGTGA tb Regions surrounded by a rectangle are a homologus region.Mark shows deletion of a codon.Mark shows a termination codon. Table 6 10EMI42.1 tb Met SEP Ser SEP Thr SEP Glu SEP Ser SEP Met SEP Ile SEP Arg SEP Asp SEP Vai SEP tb Met SEP Ser SEP Thr SEP Glu SEP Ser SEP Met SEP Ile SEP Arg SEP Asp SEP Val tb SEP 20 tb Glu SEP Leu SEP Ala SEP Glu SEP Glu SEP Ala SEP teu SEP Pro SEP Lys SEP Ly tb Glu SEP Leu SEP Ala SEP Glu SEP Gly SEP Pro SEP Leu SEP Pro SEP Lys SEP Lys tb SEP 30 tb Thr SEP ly SEP Gly SEP Pro SEP Gln SEP Gly SEP Ser SEP Arg SEP Arg SEP Cys SEP tb Ala SEP ly SEP Gly SEP Pro SEP Gln SEP Gly SEP Ser SEP Lys SEP Arg SEP Cys SEP tb SEP 40 tb Leu SEP Phe SEP teu SEP Ser SEP Leu SEP Phe SEP Ser SEP Phe SEP Lie SEP Ile tb Lie SEP Cys SEP teu SEP Ser SEP Leu SEP Phe SEP Ser SEP Phe SEP Le SEP Leu SEP tb SEP 50 tb Val SEP Ala SEP Gly SEP Ala SEP Thr SEP Thr SEP Leu SEP Phe SEP Cys SEP Leu tb Val SEP Ala SEP Gly SEP Ala SEP Thr SEP Thr SEP Leu SEP Phe SEP Cys SEP Leu tb SEP 60 tb Leu SEP His SEP Phe SEP Gly SEP Val SEP lie SEP Gly SEP Pro SEP Gln SEP Arg tb Leu SEP His SEP Phe SEP Arg SEP Val SEP Ile SEP Gly SEP Pro SEP Gln SEP Glu tb SEP 70 tb Glu SEP Gl SEP SEP Phe SEP Pro SEP Arg SEP Asp SEP e SEP Ser SEP en SEP tb Glu SEP Glu SEP Gln SEP Ser SEP Pro SEP Asn SEP Asn SEP e SEP His SEP e tb SEP 80 tb Ile SEP Ser SEP Pro SEP Leu SEP Ala SEP Gln SEP SEP SEP Ala SEP Val tb Val SEP Asn SEP Pro SEP Val SEP Ala SEP Gln SEP Met SEP Val SEP Thr SEP Leu tb SEP 90 tb rg SEP Ser SEP Ser SEP Ser SEP Arg SEP Thr SEP Pro SEP Ser SEP Asp SEP Lys tb rg SEP Ser SEP Ala SEP Ser SEP Arg SEP Ala SEP Leu SEP Ser SEP Asp SEP Lys tb SEP 100 tb Pro SEP Val SEP Ala SEP His SEP Val SEP Val SEP Ala SEP Asn SEP Pro SEP Gld SEP tb Pro SEP Leu SEP Ala SEP His SEP Val SEP Val SEP Ala SEP Asn SEP Pro SEP Gl tb SEP 110 tb Ala SEP Glu SEP Gly SEP Gln SEP Leu SEP Gln SEP Trp SEP Leu SEP Asn SEP Arg tb Val SEP Glu SEP Gly SEP Gln SEP Leu SEP Gln SEP Trp SEP Leu SEP Ser SEP Gln tb SEP 120 tb Arg SEP Ala SEP Asn SEP Ala SEP Leu SEP Leu SEP Ala SEP Asn SEP Gly SEP Val tb Arg SEP Ala SEP Asn SEP Ala SEP Leu SEP Leu SEP Ala SEP Asn SEP Gly SEP Met tb Upper rows human TNF precursorLower rows rabbit TNF precursor Table 6 continued EMI43.1 tb SEP 130 tb Glu SEP Leu SEP Arg SEP Asp SEP Asp SEP Asn SEP Gln SEP Leu SEP Val SEP Val SEP Pr tb Lys SEP Leu SEP Thr SEP sp SEP Asn SEP Gln SEP Leu SEP Val SEP Val SEP Pro SEP tb SEP 140 tb Ser SEP Glu SEP ply SEP Leu SEP Tyr SEP Leu SEP Ile SEP Tyr SEP Ser SEP Gln tb Ala SEP Asp SEP Gly SEP Leu SEP Tyr SEP Leu SEP Ile SEP Tyr SEP Ser SEP Gln tb SEP 150 tb Val SEP Leu SEP Phe SEP Lys SEP Gly SEP Gln SEP Gly SEP Cys SEP Pro SEP Ser tb Val SEP Leu SEP Phe SEP Ser SEP Gly SEP Gln SEP Gly SEP Cys SEP Arg SEP Ser tb SEP 160 tb Thr SEP His SEP Val SEP Leu SEP Leu SEP Thr SEP His SEP Thr SEP Ile SEP er SEP tb SEP Tyr SEP Val SEP Leu SEP Leu SEP Thr SEP His SEP Thr SEP Val SEP Ser tb SEP 170 tb Arg SEP Ile SEP Ala SEP Val SEP Ser SEP Tyr SEP Gln SEP Thr SEP Lys SEP Val tb Arg SEP Phe SEP Ala SEP Val SEP Ser SEP Tyr SEP Pro SEP Asn SEP Lys SEP Val tb SEP 180 tb Asn SEP Leu SEP Leu SEP Ser SEP Ala SEP Ile SEP Lys SEP Ser SEP Pro SEP Cys tb Asn SEP Leu SEP Leu SEP Ser SEP Ala SEP Ile SEP Lys SEP Ser SEP Pro SEP Cys tb SEP 190 tb Gln SEP Arg SEP Glu SEP Thr SEP Pro SEP Glu SEP Gly SEP Ala SEP Glu SEP Ala tb His SEP Arg SEP Glu SEP Thr SEP Pro SEP Glu SEP Glu SEP Ala SEP Glu SEP Pro tb SEP 200 tb Lys SEP Pro SEP Trp SEP Tyr SEP Glu SEP Pro SEP Ile SEP Tyr SEP Leu SEP Gly SEP tb Met SEP Ala SEP Thr SEP Tyr SEP Glu SEP Pro SEP Ill SEP tor SEP Leu SEP Gly tb SEP 210 tb Gly SEP Val SEP Phe SEP Gln SEP Leu SEP Glu SEP Lys SEP Gly SEP Asp SEP Arg tb Gly SEP Val SEP Phe SEP Gln SEP Leu SEP Glu SEP Lys SEP Gly SEP Asp SEP Arg tb SEP 220 tb Leu SEP Ser SEP Ala SEP Glu SEP Ile SEP Asn SEP Arg SEP Pro SEP Asp SEP Tyr tb Leu SEP Ser SEP Thr SEP Glu SEP Val SEP Asn SEP Gln SEP Pro SEP Glu SEP Tyr tb SEP 230 tb Leu SEP Asp SEP Phe SEP Ala SEP Glu SEP Ser SEP Gly SEP Gln SEP Val SEP Tyr tb Leu SEP As SEP Leu SEP la SEP Glu SEP Ser SEP Gly SEP Gin SEP Val SEP Tyr tb Phe SEP Gly SEP Ile SEP Ile SEP Ala SEP Le tb Phe SEP Gly SEP Ile SEP Ile SEP Ala SEP Lie tb Regions surrounded by a rectangle are a homologus region.Mark shows deletion of an amino acid. Table 7EMI44.1 tb Amino SEP acid SEP Relative SEP molar SEP quantities tb Asp SEP SEP Asn SEP 12.1 tb Thr SEP 5.5 tb Ser SEP 12.4 tb Glu SEP SEP Gln SEP 20.3 tb Pro SEP 10.3 tb Gly SEP 10.6 tb Ala SEP 13.0 tb Cys SEP 1.5 tb Val SEP 12.1 tb Met SEP 0.1 tb Ile SEP 8.0 tb Leu SEP 17.7 tb Tyr SEP 6.8 tb Phe SEP 3.9 tb His SEP 2.8 tb Lys SEP 6.1 tb Arg SEP 7.5 tb Trp SEP 1.6 tb Table 8 EMI45.1 Human SEP Cell SEP origin SEP Ratio SEP of SEP growth tb SEP inhibition tb Normal SEP cells tb WI 38 SEP AICC SEP CCL SEP 75 SEP lung SEP diploid SEP notinhibited tb MRC 5 SEP ATCC SEP CCL SEP 171 SEP lung SEP diploid SEP notinhibited tb IMR 90 SEP ATCC SEP CCL SEP 186 SEP lung SEP diploid SEP not SEP inhibited tb Tumor SEP cells tb G 361 SEP ATCC SEP CRL1424 melenoma SEP 75 tb HT 1376 SEP ATCC SEP CRL SEP 1472 SEP bladder SEP carcinoma SEP 49 tb ZR 75 1 SEP ATCC SEP CRL SEP 1500 SEP breast SEP carcinoma SEP 97 tb HOS SEP ATCC SEP CRL SEP 1543 SEP osteogenic SEP sarcoma SEP 47 tb WiDr SEP ATCC SEP CCL SEP 218 SEP colon SEP adenocarcinoma SEP 37 tb MCF7 SEP ATCC SEP HTB SEP 22 SEP breast SEP adenocarcinoma SEP 69 tb G 402 SEP ATCC SEP CRL1440 SEP renal SEP leiomyoblastoma SEP 98 tb PANC 1 SEP ATCC SEP CRL SEP 1469 SEP epitheloid SEP carcinoma SEP 59 tb HeLa SEP ATCC SEP CCL2 SEP epitheloid SEP carcinoma SEP 31 tb Table 9EMI46.1 tb SEP 10 SEP 20 SEP 30 tb SEP , SEP , SEP a tb GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGCCCTCTGGAGAGAGC tb SEP 40 SEP 50 SEP 60 tb SEP 1 SEP . SEP , tb GCCATGAGCACTGAGAGTATGATCCGGGAC tb SEP MetSerThrGluSerMetIlehrgAsp tb SEP 70 SEP 80 SEP 90 tb SEP X SEP a tb GTCGAGCTGGCGGAGGGGCCGCTCCCCAAG tb ValGluLeuAlaGluGlyProLeuProLys tb SEP 100 SEP 110 SEP 120 tb SEP I SEP I tb AAGGCAGGGGGGCCCCAGGGCTCCAAGCGC tb LysAlaGlyGlyProGlnGlySerLysArg tb SEP 130 SEP 140 SEP 150 tb SEP a SEP a SEP a tb TGCCTCTGCCTCAGCCTCTTCTCTTTCCTG tb CysLeuCysLeuSerLeuPheSerPheLeu tb SEP 160 SEP 170 SEP 180 tb SEP t tb CTCGTGGCTGGAGCCACCACGCTCTTCTGC tb LeuValAlaGlyAlaThrThrLeuPheCys tb SEP 190 SEP 200 SEP 210 tb SEP a SEP a SEP a tb CTGCTGCACTTCAGGGTGATCGGCCCTCAG tb LeuLeuHisPheArgvalIleGlyProGln tb SEP 220 SEP 230 SEP 240 tb SEP a SEP a SEP a tb GAGGAAGAGCAGTCCCCAAACAACCTCCAT tb GluGluGluGlnSerProAsnAsnLeuHis tb SEP 250 SEP 260 SEP 270 tb SEP I SEP 1 tb CTAGTCAACCCTGTGGCCCAGATGGTCACC tb LeuValAsnProValAlaGl SEP nMetValThr tb SEP 280 SEP 290 SEP 300 tb SEP a SEP a SEP a tb CTCAGATCAGCTTCTCGGGCCCTGAGTGAC tb LeuArgserAlaSerArgAlaLeuSerAsp tb SEP 310 SEP 320 SEP 330 tb AAGCCTCTAGCCCACGTAGTAGCAAACCCG tb LysProLeuAlaHisValValAlaAsnPro tb SEP 340 SEP 350 SEP 360 tb SEP , SEP . SEP . tb CAAGn GAGGGCCAGCTCCAGTGGCTGAGC tb GlnValGluGlyGlnLeuGlnTrpLeuSer tb SEP 370 SEP 380 SEP 390 tb SEP a SEP a SEP a tb CAGCGTGCGAACGCCCTCCTGGCCAACGGC tb GlnArgAlaAsnAlaLeuLeuAlaAsnGly tb to be continued Table 9 continued EMI47.1 tb SEP 400 SEP 410 SEP 420 tb SEP I tb ATGAAGCTCACGGACAACCAGCTGGTGGTG tb MetLysLeuThrAspAsnGlnLeuValVal tb SEP 430 SEP 440 SEP 450 tb SEP I tb CCGGCCGACGGGCTGTACCTCATCTACTCC tb ProAlaAspGlyLeuTyrLeuIleTyrSer tb SEP 460 SEP 470 SEP 480 tb SEP I SEP I SEP I tb CAGGTTCTCTTCAGCGGTCAAGGCTGCCGC tb GlnValLeuPheSerGlyGlnGlyCysArg tb SEP 490 SEP 500 SEP 510 tb SEP 490 SEP . SEP . tb TCCTACGTGCTCCTCACTCACACTGTCAGC tb SerTyrValLeuLeuThrHisThrValSer tb SEP 520 SEP 530 SEP 540 tb SEP I tb CGCTTCGCCGTCTCCTACCCGAACAAGGTC tb ArgPheAlaValSerTyrProAsnLysVal tb SEP 550 SEP 560 SEP 570 tb SEP I SEP I tb AACCTCCTCTCTGCCATCAAGAGCCCCTGC tb AsnLeuLeuSerAlaIleLysSerProCys tb SEP 580 SEP 590 SEP 600 tb CACCGGGAGACCCCCGAGGAGGCTGAGCCC tb HisArgGluThrProGluGluAlaGluPro tb SEP 610 SEP 620 SEP 630 tb SEP I SEP I tb ATGGCCTGGTACGAGCCCATCTACCTGGGC tb MetAlaTrpTyrGluProIleTyrLeuGly tb SEP 640 SEP 650 SEP 660 tb SEP 1 SEP I tb GGCGTCTTCCAGTTGGAGAAGGGTGACCGG tb GlyValPheGlnLeuGluLysGlyAspArg tb SEP 670 SEP 680 SEP 690 tb SEP I tb CTCACCACCGAGGTCAACCAGCCTGAGTAC tb LeuSerThrGluValAsnGlnProGluTyr tb SEP 700 SEP 710 SEP 720 tb CTGGACCTTGCCGAGTCCGGGCAGGTCTAC tb LeuAspLeuAlaGluSerGlyGlnValTyr tb SEP 730 SEP 740 SEP 750 tb SEP I SEP I SEP I tb TTTGGGATCATTGCCCTGTGAGGGGACTGA tb PheGlyIleIleAlaLeu tb SEP 760 SEP 770 SEP 780 tb SEP I SEP I tb CCACCACTCCTCCCCCTCTCCCACCCCAGC tb SEP 790 SEP 800 tb CCCCTCACTCTGGGCGCCCTCAG tb Vii The following Examples and Referential Examples illustrate this invention more specifically. It should be understood however that the invention is in no way limited to these examples. For a better understanding of the following examples, Figures 1 to 5 are attached to the present specification. Figure 1 shows the restriction endonuclease cleavage sites used for preparing DNA fragments, and the directions and extents of sequencing for determination of the base sequence of the cloned cDNA encoding human TNF polypeptide Example 1 9 Figure 2 shows a process of constructing an expression plasmid pHTT26 Example 2 1 Figure 3 shows a process of constructing an expression plasmid pHTR91 Example 2 2 i Figure 4 shows a process of constructing an expression plasmid pHTS115 example 2 3 Figure 5 shows a process of constructing an expression plasmid pHTS37 Example 2 4 1.Example 1 11 Preparation of TNF mRNA from Human Alveolar Macrophages Human alveolar macrophages were collected by broncho alveolar lavage with phosphate buffered saline. The alveolar macrophages, 6.3 x 1Q7 cells, were suspended in RPMI 1640 medium containing 10 fetal bovine serum, and seeded om Petri dishes 8 cm in diameter au a cell density of 9 106 cells per dish. They were pre ciltivated at 37 0C in a fully humidified atmosphere containing 5 carbon dioxide. After 1 hour cultivation, endotoxin lipopolysaccharide derived from E. coli , TPA phorbol 12 myristate13 acetate and cycloheximide protein synthesis inhibitor were added to the dishes so that their final concentrations became 10 micrograms ml, 10 ng ml and 1 microgram ml, respectively. The cultivation was further continued for 4 to 4.5 hours total of 5 to 5.5 hours .The culture medium was removed by suction, and the macrophages adhered to the dishes were lysed and homogenized in a 5M guanidyl thiocyanate solution containing 0.6 sodium N lauroyl sarcosinate and 6mM sodium citrate. The homogenate was loaded on a 5.7M cesium chloride solution containing 0.lM EDTA, and centifuged for 20 hours at 26,500 rpm using an ultracentrifuge RPS27 2 rotor, Hitachi Koki to obtain a total RNA fraction as pellets. The pellets were dissolved in a small amount of 7M urea solution containing 0.35MNaCl, 20mM Tris HCl pH 7.4 and 20mM EDTA, and recovered by precipitation from ethanol. One hundred and fifty nine micrograms of total RNA was obtained. The total RNA fraction was dissolved in 1 ml of lOmM Tris HCl pH 7.4 buffer containing lmM EDTA to be referred to as TE solution , and the solution was heated at 65 C for 5 minutes. A Na Cl solution was added to a final concentration of 0.5M, and the solution was applied onto a column of oligo dT cellulose previously equilibrated with the TE solution containing 0.5M NaCl. Poly A mRNA was eluted from the column with the TE solution in an yield of 8 micrograms. The poly A mRNA was dissolved to a concentration of 1.9 ng nl in distilled water, and the solution was injected into the oocytes of Xenopus laevis at a dose of about 50 nl per oocyte by a microinjection method. Ten oocytes were incubated in 100 microliters of the Barth s medium J.B.Gurdon, J.Embryol, Exp. Morphol., 20, 40l 1968 at 22 C for 24 hours. the oocytes were homogenized, and centrifuged at 10,000 rpm for 10 minutes.The supernatant was subjected to assay of TNF activity by determining the cytotoxic activity against mouse L 929 cells. The method of measuring the cytotoxic activity against L 929 cells was as follows A sample 0.1 ml diluted serially with the below mentioned a medium and 0.1 ml of a suspension ofL 929 cells 5 x 105 cells ml containing actinomycin D 2 micrograms ml were added into each well of a 96 well multi well plate Flow Labs. . The Eagle s minimum essential medium containing 1t fetal bovine serum was used.The plate was incubated at 38.50C for 18 hours in a fully humidified atmosphere containing 5 carbon dioxide. Procedures for determining the number of viableL 929 cells and estimating the biological activity were the same as those of the cytotoxic activity assay using mouseL M cells as a target cell as mentioned in section lll 2 1 . The cytotoxic activity against L 929 cells determined under the above conditions was represented by units L 929 to distinguish from the cytotoxic activity against mouse L M cells. The supernatant prepared as above had a cytotoxic activity of 6.6 units L 929 ml. It indicates that the poly A mRNA preparation contains TNF mRNA. 2 Synthesis of cDNA Complementary DNA was synthesized according to the method of Gubler and Hoffman Gene, 25, 263 1983 using the poly A mRNA obtained in section 1 as a template. Six micrograms of the poly A mRNA was dissolved in 40 microliters of 50 mM Tris HCl pH 8.3 buffer containing l0mM MgCl2, l0mM dithiothreitol, 4mM sodium pyrophosphate, 1.25mM of each of the three deoxyribonucleotide triphosphates, dGTP, dATP and dTTP, 0.5mM dCTP, 167nM alpha 32P dCTp specific radioactivity, 3,000 Ci mmole , 4 micrograms of oligo dT 12 18 and 120 units of reverse tran scriptase derived from avian myeloblastosis virus AMV , and incubated at 430C for 30 minutes. Then, the reaction was stopped by adding EDTA. The reaction mixture was extracted with phenol chloroform 1 1 , and ammonium acetate was added to the aqueous phase to a final concentration of 2.5M.The resulting cDNA mRNA hybrid was recovered from the aqueous phase by precipitation from ethanol. The cDNA mRNA hybrid precipitate was dissolved in 100 microliters of 20mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 buffer containing 5mM MgCl2, l0mM NH4 25O4, 100mM KCl, 0.15mM betanicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, 5 micrograms of bovine serum albumin, 0.04mM of each of four deoxyribonucleotide triphosphates, dGTP, dATP, dTTP and dCTP, 0.9 unit of E.coli ribonuclease H and 23 units of E. coli DNA polymeraseI, and incubated at 120C for 60 minutes and further at 220C for 60 minutes to synthesize a dscDNA. The reaction was stopped by adding EDTA. The dscDNA was extracted with phenol chloroform, and recovered by precipitation from ethanol as shown above. 3 Preparation of oligo dC tailed cDNA The dscDNA obtained as above was dissolved in 100 microliters of 100mM sodium cacodylate pH 7.2 buffer containing 2mM CoC12, 0.2mM dithiothreitol, 0.lmM alpha32P dCTP specific radioactivity, 3 Ci mmole and 10 units of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase, and incubated at 37 C for 30 minutes to permit the addition of oligo dC tails to the 3 termini of dscDNA. The reaction was stopped by adding EDTA. The oligo dC tailed dscDNA was extracted with phenol chloroform, and recovered by precipitation from ethanol. The oligo dC tailed dscDNA was dissolved in l0mM Tris HCl pH 7.4 buffer containing lmM EDTA and 100mM NaCl so that it contained 2 micrograms of the oligo dC tailed dscDNA per ml. 4 Preparation of oligo dG tailed pBR322 DNA Ten micrograms of pBR322 DNA was dissolved in 100 microliters of 20mM Tris HCl pH 7.4 buffer containing lOmM MgCl2, 50mM NH4 2S04 and 10 micrograms of bovine serum albumin, and 15 units of the restriction endonucleasePstI was added. The mixture was incubated at 37OC for 1 hour. After the reaction was terminated, the reaction mixture was extracted with phenol chloroform, and the resulting DNA was recovered from the aqueous phase by precipitation from ethanol.The DNA obtained was dissolved in 200 microliters of the same reaction buffer as used for tailing of the dscDNA above except that it contained 80 units of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase and 3H dGTP instead of 32P dCTP and incubated at 370C for 20 minutes to add about 10 15 deoxygnanylic acid dG residues to the 3 termini. The reaction mixture was extracted with phenol chloroform, and the oligo dG tailed pBR322 DNA was recovered from the aqueous phase by ethanol precipitation.The resulting tailed pBR322 DNA was dissolved in the same buffer as used for dissolving the oligo dC tailed dscDNA so that it contained the tailed pBR322 DNA at a concentration of 20 micrograms per ml. 5 Construction of recombinant plasmids One hundred and twenty microliters of the oligo dC tailed cDNA solution was mixed with an equal volume of the oligo dG tailed pBR322 DNA solution, and the mixture was incubated sequentially at 65 C for 5 minutes and at 57 C for 120 minutes to perform annealing and to construct recombinant plasmids. 6 Selection of transformants E. coli X1776 strain was transformed with the recombinant plasmids obtained as above. Specifically, E. coli x1776 was cultivated at 37 C in 20 ml pf L broth composition 10 g of trypton, 5 g of yeast extract, 5 g of NaCl and 1 g of glucose per liter pH 7.2 supplemented with 100 micrograms ml of diaminopimelic acid and 40 micrograms ml of thymidine until the turbidity at 600 nm reached 0.5. The cells were collected by centrifugation at aOC, and washed with 10 ml of 10mMTris HCl pH 7.3 buffer containing 50 mM Caul2. The cells were resuspended in 2 ml of the same buffer as used above, and left to stand at OOC for 5 minutes. To 0.2 ml of the suspension was added 0.1 ml of the recombinant plasmids solution obtained as above.The mixture was left to stand at 0 0C for 15 minutes and then maintained at 42 0C for 2 minutes. Then, 0.5 ml of the supplemented L broth as used above was added, and cultivation was carried out with shaking for 1 hour. An aliquot of the culture was taken, spread on the supplemented L broth agar plate containing 15 micrograms ml of tetracycline, and cultivated at 370C for about 12 hours. A cDNA library was prepared by selecting transformants resistant to tetracycline. 7 Cloning of human TNF cDNA Transformants harboring the recombinant plasmids containing cDNAs encoding human TNF polypeptide were selected from the cDNA library obtained in section 6 , by a colony hybridization assay using DNA fragments prepared from the cloned cDNA encoding rabbit TNF as probes. Specifically, the cDNA encoding rabbit TNF was isolated from the recombinant plasmid pRTNF802 as shown inReferential Example 1. Its base sequence is shown in Table 3. The cDNA was digested with the restriction endonucleaseAvaI or HaeII. The digested DNA fragments were recovered by precipitation from ethanol. They were subjected to polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis to isolate desired DNA fragments. The DNA fragment 299 bp corresponding to the 285th to the 583rd bases as shown in Table 3 was obtained by digestion with the restriction endonuclease AvaI to be referred to as AvaI fragment . Another DNA fragment 88 bp corresponding to the 33rd to the 120th bases as shown in Table 3 was obtained by digestion with the restriction endonuclease HaeII to be referred to as HaeII fragment .The AvaI fragment and HaeII fragment were labelled with 32P. These labelled DNA fragments were used as a probe for screening the cDNA library to select transformants having a plasmid containing cDNA encoding human TNF polypeptide by the colony hybridization assay according to the method ofHanahan and Meselson, 10, 63 1980 1. Out of about 20,000 clones, 43 clones were selected by the 1st screening using the 32P labelled Avail fragment as a probe. Furthermore, these 43 selected clones were subjected to 2nd screening using the 32P labelledHaeII fragment as a probe. Finally, 6 clones harboring the recombinant plasmids having cDNAs which strongly hybridized with both the rabbit TNF cDNA fragments were selected by these assays. 8 Expression Recombinant plasmid DNAs were isolated by the method of Wilkie et al. Nucleic Acid Res., 7, 859 1979 1 from the six transformants selected in section 7 named plasmid No. pSTNFl, pHTNF4, pHTNF5, pHTNF13, pHTNF22 and pHTNF26, respectively. Each of the recombinant plasmids was introduced into E. coli HB101 according to the same method as shown in section 6 to prepare transformants harboring the recombinant plasmids. The transformants were cultivated in 50 ml of LB broth lcomposition 10 g of trypton, 5 g of yeast extract and 10 g of NaCl per liter pH 7.51 until the turbidity at 600 nm of the culture reached about 0.8. Then, about 3 to 5 x 1010 cells were collected. The cells were lysed by the method of Nagata et al. mature, 284, 316 1980 with slight modifications. The cells were resuspended in 1 ml of 50mM Tris HCl pH 8.0 buffer containing 0.1 lysozyme and 30mM Nazi. After standing for 30 minutes in ice water, the cells were lysed by repeating freezing thawing 6 times.The cell debris was removed by centrifugation to give a clarified lysate. The lysate obtained from each transformant was subjected to assay of cytotoxic activity against L 929 cells. It was consequently found that the lysate obtained from the transformant harboring plasmid pHTNFl3 had a cytotoxic activity of 186.1 units L 929 ml. 9 Determination of the base sequence of the cloned cDNA The recombinant plasmid pHTNF13 was isolated as above. The plasmid DNA was cleaved with the restriction endonuclease PstI to isolate a cloned cDNA inserted into a vector. The cloned cDNA fragment was further cleaved with various restriction endonucleases, and the base sequences of the resulting 16 fragments were determined by the MaxamGilert method. Figure 1 shows the restriction endonuclease cleavage sites used for preparing the fragments, and the directions of sequencing indicated by arrows. The rectangular area is a coding region of human TNF precursor polypeptide. Table 4 shows the base sequence determined and the amino acid sequence deduced from the base sequence.The region encoding human TNF polypeptide was determined on the basis of homology to the base sequence encoding rabbitTNF. The DNA encoding human TNF polypeptide codes for its precursor polypeptide consisting of 233 amino acid residues. The mature human TNF polypeptide is a polypeptide corresponding to the 155 amino acid residues from the carboxy terminus of its precursor, which is coded in the base sequence from base No. 235 to base No. 699 inTable 4 the region bracketed in Table 4 . A termination codon followed by the last codon encoding human TNF polypeptide is an opal codon TGA. 10 Immunological property of human TNF polypeptide The immunological cross reactivity of human TNF polypeptide in the lysate obtained above with anti rabbit plasma TNF antibody was tested as follows The lysate was mixed with an equal volume of a 100 fold dilution of the purified anti rabbit plasma TNF antibody obtained in Referential Example 4. After incubating at 37 0C for 2 hours, the cytotoxic activity of the reaction mixture was measured by the method described above using L 929 cells as a target cell. Rabbit plasma TNF obtained in Referential Example 2 was previously diluted with phosphate buffered saline and the dilution was used as a control TNF preparation. As the result below shows, the cytotoxic activity of human TNF polypeptide was not neutralized with the antibody.EMI56.1 tb SEP Sample SEP Anti rabbit SEP Cytotoxic SEP activity tb SEP plasma SEP TNF SEP units SEP L 9293 ml tb SEP antibody tb Lysate SEP from SEP the SEP not SEP added SEP 186.1 tb transformant tb harboring tb plasmid SEP pHTNF13 tb Rabbit SEP plasma SEP not SEP added SEP 572.3 tb TNF SEP added SEP 0.1 SEP tb Cytotoxic activity was shown as the activity in the original sample solution used for the test.Example 2 Production of human TNF polypeptide in Escherichia coli 1 Expression under the control of tac promoter The cloned cDNA was isolated from the recombinant plasmid pHTNF13 as mentioned in Example 1. The cDNA was further digested with the restriction endonuclease EcoRI to split off a part of the non coding region downstream of theTNF coding region. The resulting DNA fragment about 1.1 kbp was inserted into a larger DNA fragment prepared from plasmid pBR322 by digestion with the restriction endonucleases PstI and EcoRI to construct a recombinant plasmid including TNF cDNA and a tetracycline resistance gene, which was named pHT113. An expression plasmid pHTT26 carrying a cDNA encoding the mature human TNF polypeptide was constructed by the procedure illustrarted in Fig. 2. The cDNA isolated from pHT113 was digested with the restriction endonucleases AvaI and HindIII and the resulting DNA fragment 578 bp including most of the coding region for the mature human TNF polypeptide to be referred to as HTNF fragment was isolated by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. A DNA fragment including a tac promoter region was isolated as follows Plasmid DNA 300 micrograms of pDR540 1P L Biochemicals Russell, D.R., et al., Gene, 20, 231 1982 1 was dissolved in 2 ml of lOmM Tris HCl pH 7.5 buffer containing 50mM NaCl, 6mH MgC12 and 6mH 2 mercaptoethanol and digested with the restriction endonucleasesEcoRI and BamHI by incubating at 370C for 60 minutes.After adding NaCl to give a final concentration of 0.3M, the digested DNA fragments were recovered from ethanol.The DNA fragment including a tac promoter region was isolated by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in an yield of 8.3 micrograms. The tac promoter fragment was ligated with a chemically synthesized oligodeoxyribonucleotide adaptor represented by the following formula 5 GATCCATGTCATCTTCTCGAACC 3 GTACAGTAGAAGAGCTTGGGGCTThis adaptor includes an initiation codon ATG and a base sequence corresponding to the 5 terminal portion of the base sequence encoding the mature human TNF polypeptide, and has the BamHI and Avail cohesive termini. The resultingDNA fragment is referred to as tac promoter adaptor fragment. Separately, a larger DNA fragment about 4.3 kbp including an ampicillin resistance gene to be referred to as pBR322 Amp r fragment was cut out from plasmid pBR322 by digestion with the restriction endonucleases HindIII andEcoRI, and isolated by gel electrophoresis using a low melting agarose 0.78 . One microgram of the HTNP fragment and 6 micrograms of the pBR322 Amp fragment were dissolved in 66mMTris HCl pH 7.6 buffer containing 6.6aM MgCl2 and incubated at 55 0C for 10 minutes. Then ATP and dithiothreitol were added to lmM and 10mM respectively, and 168 units of T4 DNA ligase was added and further the mixture was incubated at 22 C for 120 minutes. The resulting DNA fragment was recovered by extraction with phenol in an yield of about 4 micrograms. The DNA fragment 0.8 microgram was ligated with the tac promoter adaptor fragment 0.3 microgram under the same conditions as above except for using 63 units of T4 DNA ligase.The reaction mixture was diluted to 6 fold with distilled water and mixed with an equal volume of the suspension of E. coli 3H103 cells P L Biochemic21s treated with calcium as shown below.The mixture was sequentially incubated in ice water for 20 minutes, at 42 C for 1 minute and at room temperature for 10 minutes, and LB broth was added. The mixture was shaken at 37 C for 60 minutes. An aliquot of the resulting cell suspension was spread on LB agar plates containing 25 micrograms ml of ampicillin, and cultivated overnight at 37 0C. The ampicillin resistance colonies were selected. One of the transformants capable of producing human TNF polypeptlde was named JM103 pHTT26. The calcium treated E. coli JM103 cells were prepared as follows E. coli JM103 cells were inoculated in 5 ml of L broth and cultivated overnight at 37 C. One ml of the resulting culture was inoculated in 100 ml of LB broth and further cultivated at 370C until the turbidity at 650 nm of the culture reached 0.6. After standing for 30 minutes in ice water, the cells were collected by centrifugation and suspended in 50 ml of 50mM CaCI2, followed by standing at 0 0C for 60 minutes. The cells were collected by centrifugation and again suspended in 10 ml of 50mMCaCl2 containing 20t glycerol, which was used as the calcium treated E. coli JM103 cells. The transformant JM103 pHTT26 was cultivated overnight in LB broth at 370C. The culture 0.5 ml was inoculated in 5 ml of fresh LB broth and further cultivated at 37 0C for 1 hour. Then, isopropyl beta D thiogalactoside was added to a final concentration of lmM, and the cultivation was continued further for 4 hours. The cells were collected and suspended in lml of 50mM Tris HCl pH 8.0 buffer containing 0.1 lysozyme and 30mM NaCl and left to stand at 0 C for 30 minutes. Then freezing on a dry ice ethanol bath and thawing at 37 0C were repeated 6 times, and the cell debris was removed by centrifugation to give a clarified lysate. The lysate had a cytotoxic activity of 9.9 x 104 units L 929 ml. This cytotoxic activity was not neutralized with an antibody to rabbit plasma TNF as shown inReferential Example 4. It was confirmed that human TNF polypeptide did not cross react with rabbit plasma TNF immunologically. 2 Expression under the control of trp promoter An expression plasmid pHTR91 was constructed by the procedure illustrated in Fig. 3. The recombinant plasmid pHT113 was digested with the restriction endonucleases AvaI and SalI to be cut into 3 fragments about 0.8 kbp, 1.3 kbp and 2.6 kbp in size .The 1.3 kbp DNA fragment including most of the coding region for the mature human TNF polypeptide and a part of tetracycline resistance gene was isolated to be referred to as Aval Sali fragment . The Aval Sali fragment was ligated with the following chemically synthesized oligodeoxyribonucleotide adaptor. This adaptor was referred to as adaptor I. 5 CG ATATGTCATCTTCTCG AACC 3 TATACAGTAGAAGAGCTTGGGGCT The resulting DNA fragment was referred to asHTNF adaptor fragment. Separately, the DNA fragment 35 bp including a part of trp promoter region was cut out from a plasmid pDR720 P L Biochemicals Russell, D.R., et al., Gene, 20, 231 1982 by digesting with the restriction endonucleasesEcoRI and HpaI, and the DNA fragment was ligated with a chemically synthesized adaptor represented by the following formula 5 AACTAGTACGCAAGTTCACGTAAAAAGGGTAAT 3 TTGATCATGCGTTCAAGTGCATTTTTCCCATTAGC The ligated DNA fragment was referred to as trp promoter fragment. Plasmid pBR322 was digested with the restriction endonucleases EcoRI and SalI, and a larger DNA fragment about 3.7 kbp was isolated. By sequential ligation of these three DNA fragments, the HTNF adaptor fragment, the trp promoter fragment and the larger pBR322 fragment, an expression plasmid pHTR91 was constructed. The expression plasmid was introduced into E. coli HB101 cells by the method described in section 1 , and one of the transformants was named HBlOl pHTR9l. The transformant HB101 pHTR91 was cultivated overnight at 37 C in the modified N 9 medium composition 0.78 Na2HPO4 12H20, 0.3 KH2PO4, 0.05 NaCl, 0.18 NH4Cl, 2 mg t of vitamine B1, 0.45 casamino acid1 lmM MgSO4, O.lmM CaCl2 and 0,5 glucose . The culture 0,05 ml was inoculated in 5 ml of the same medium, and cultivated at 37 C for l hour. Then, 3 beta indoleacrylic acid was added to give a final concentration of 20 micrograms ml, and cultivation was continued for 4 hours. The cells were collected and treated by the same procedure as described in section 1 to obtain a clarified lysate. The lysate had a cytotoxic activity of 1.01 x 10 units L 929 ml. 3 Expression under the control of phoS promoter An expression plasmid pHTS115 capable of producing human TNF polypeptide fused with the signal peptide and the N terminal portion of a phosphate binding protein, and secreting the fused protein into the periplasms of host cells was constructed by the procedure illustrated in Fig.4. The AvaI SalI fragment obtained in section 2 was ligated with a chemically synthesized oligodeoxyribonucleotide adaptor having the following sequence 5 GATCCATGTCATCTTCTCGAACC 3 GTACAGTAGAAGAGCTTGGGGCT The ligated DNA fragment was digested with the restriction endonuclease BamHI to prepare a DNA fragment having BamHI cohesive termini at both ends to be referred to as HTNF Tetr. BamHI fragment . Separately, plasmid pSN5182 Morita, T., et al.,Eur. J. Biochem., 130, 427 1983 1 containing a phoS gene was digested with the restriction endonucleases HpaI andEcoRI to prepare the DNA fragment about 4 kbp including the phos promoter region and Shine Dalgarno sequence, theDNA sequence coding for the signal peptide and the Nterminal portion of a phosphate binding protein, and the tetracycline resistance gene. This DNA fragment was referred to as HpaI EcoRI fragment. The paI EcoRI fragment was ligated with a chemically synthesized oligodeoxyribonucleotide linker having the following sequence 5 CCCGGATCCGGG 3 GGGCCTAGGCCC Then, the ligated DNA fragment was digested with the restriction endonuclease BamHI.The resulting DNA fragment about 3.6 kbp having BamHI cohesive termini at the both ends was referred to as phoS promoter BamHI Tetr fragment. The HTNF Tetr BamHI fragment was ligated with the phoS promoter BamHITetr fragment to construct an expression plasmid for producing the human TNF polypeptide fused with a phosphate binding protein, which was named pHTS115.The expression plasmid was introduced into E. coli HB101 according to the method as shown above One of the transformants HBlO1 pHTSl15 was cultivated in 5 ml of TG medium composition 120mM TrisHC1 pH 7.4 buffer containing 0.2 glucose, 80mM NaCl, 20mM KCl, 20mM NH4Cl, 3mM Na2SO4, lmM HgCl2, 0.2mM CaC12, 200nM FeC13, 20 mg of leucine, 20 mg t of proline and 10 mg 2 of vitamine Bull, supplemented with 0.64mM KE2P04, at 37 C for 20 hours with shaking.The cells were collected by centrifugation, resuspended in 2 ml of TG medium supplemented with 0.064mM KH2PO4 and cultivated at 370C for 6 hours. The cells were collected by centrifugation, and washed with 1 ml of 10mM Tris HCl pH 7.2 buffer containing 30mM NaCl. Then they were resuspended in 0.2 ml of 33mM Tris SCl pH 7.2 buffer and mixed with an equal volume of 33mM Tris HCl pH 7.2 buffer containing 0.lmM EDTA and 40 sucrose. After incubation at 370C for 10 minutes, the cells were collected and resuspended in 0.4 ml of chilled 0.5mM MgCl2 and left to stand in ice water for 10 minutes with occasional shaking. The cell debris was removed by centrifugation to obtain a clarified extract to be referred to as periplasmic extract . The periplasmic extract has a cytotoxic activity of 1.34 x 105 units L 929 m1. The molecular weight of the polypeptide having cytotoxic activity was determined to be 19,000 daltons by sodium dodecylsulfate SDS polyacrylamide gel 12.5 electrophoresis, which suggests that the polypeptide produced was a fused protein. 4 Expression under the control of phoS promoter An expression plasmid pHTS37 capable of producing human TNF polypeptide fused with the signal peptide and theN terminal portion of a phosphate binding protein and the mature human TNF polypeptide with a part of its precursor portion, and secreting the fused protein into the periplasm of host cells was constructed by the procedure illustrated in Fig. 5. Recombinant plasmid pHTNP13 DNA was digested with the restriction endonuclease PstI to cut out the DNA fragment about 1.2 kbp including human TNF cDNA. The DNA fragment was further digested with the restriction endonuclease BbeI to obtain a DNA fragment about 0.9 kbp to be referred to as BbeI PstI fragment . Six micrograms of the BbeI PstI fragment was dissolved in 80 microliters of 20mM Tris HCl pH 8.0 buffer containing 12mM Caul2, 12mM MgCl2, 0,2M NaCl, 1mM EDTA and 0,02 unit of the exonucleaseBal 31, and incubated at 30 C for 30 minutes to chew away about 50 to 150 base pairs from the both ends of the DNA fragment. Then the termini of the fragment were repaired by incubating at 37 C for 60 minutes with 10 units of E.coli DNA polymerase I large fragment in the presence of 0.lmM of each of four deoxyribonucleotide triphosphates, dGTP, dATP, dCTP and dTTP, and 50 micrograms ml of bovine serum albumin. The repaired DNA fragment was digested with the restriction endonuclease EcoRI and resulting DNA fragment about 750 bp having a blunt end and a EcoRI cohesive end was isolated in a yield of about 3 micrograms to be referred to as Bal 31 EcoRI fragment . The Bal 31 EcoRI fragment was ligated with theHpaI EcoRI fragment about 4 kbp obtained from pSN5182 as described in section 3 to construct an expression plasmid containing the phoS promoter region, Shine Dalgarno sequence, the DNA sequence coding for the signal peptide and the N terminal portion of a phosphate binding protein and the DNA sequence coding for the mature human TNF polypeptide and a part of its precursor polypeptide. The expression plasmid was named pHTS37 and it was introduced into E. coli HUB101 to obtain a transformant which was named HBlOl pHTS37. The transformant HB101 pHTS37 was cultivated and the periplasmic extract was obtained under the same conditions as shown in section 3 . The periplasmic extract obtained had a cytotoxic activity of 4.93 x 105 units L 929 ml. The extract was subjected to SDS polyacrylanide gel 12.5 electrophoresis. The electrophoresis was carried out at 35 V for 12 hours using Tris glycine pH 8.3 buffer containing 0.18 SDS. Protein was stained withCoomassie brilliant blue. Two protein bands, which were not observed in the extract of E. coli HB101, were detected at the positions corresponding to molecular weights of about 22,000 daltons and 16,500 daltons. Separately, the gel was sliced into 2 mm width and each gel was shaken in 1 ml of Eagle s minimum essential medium containing 1t fetal bovine serum at 4QC overnight to elute proteins from the gel. Each eluate was used for determining the cytotoxic activity against mouse L 929 cells. As a result, a strong cytotoxic activity was detected in the eluate from the gel sliced from the position corresponding to the protein stained with Coomassie brilliant blue, which was determined to have a molecular weight of 16,500 daltons. It was supposed from the structure of the expression plasmid pHTS37 that human TNP polypeptide produced in the transformant should be a fused protein of a part of phosphate binding protein and human TNF polypeptide with a part of its precursor portion. The theoretical molecular weight of the fused protein was calculated as about 23,000 daltons. On the other hand, the molecular weight of the mature human TNF polypeptide is 17,097 daltons. This investigation suggested that the fused protein produced could be converted to the mature human TNF polypeptide in the host cells by limited hydrolysis probably at a specific site Arg Ser joining the mature human TNF polypeptide to its precursor portion. When the periplasmic extract was incubated with 5 micrograms ml of trypsin from bovine pancreas, SigmaChemical Co. at 37 0C for 1 hour and the reaction mixture was subjected to SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis under the same conditions as above, a protein band detected at the position corresponding to a molecular weight of about 22,000 daltons, which might be the fused protein, disappeared by the trypsin digestion.Example 3 Production of modified human TNF polypeptide An expression plasmid pHTRD4 carrying a DNA encodng a polypeptide resulting from deletion of four amino acids from the N terminus of mature human TNF polypeptide was constructed according to the same strategy as that of the expression plasmid pHTR91 shown in Example 2 2 , except that the following synthetic adaptor was used instead of the adaptor I 5 CGATATGACC 3 TATACTGGGGCT By using the above synthetic adaptor, the base sequence followed by an initiation codon ATG is coding for an amino acid sequence consisting of 151 amino acid residues which results from deletion of 4 amino acids Ser Ser Ser Arg from the N terminal of the mature humanTNF polypeptide. The expression plasmid pHTRD4 constructed by the above procedure was introduced into E. coli HB101, and the transformant was cultivated overnight at 37 C in the modified M 9 medium. The culture 0.05 ml was inoculated in 5 ml of the same medium, and cultivated at 37 0C for 1 hour.Then, 3 beta indoleacrylic acid was added to give a final concentration of 20 micrograms ml and the cultivation was continued overnight. The cells were collected by centrifugation and treated by the same methods as described inExample 2 1 to obtain a clarified lysate. The lysate had a cytotoxic activity of 1.1 x 105 units L 929 m1. Example 4 Production of human TNF precursor polypeptide in Escherichia coli An expression plasmid pHTRP3 carrying a cDNA encoding a human TNF precursor polypeptide consisting of 233 amino acids was constructed as follows The cloned cDNA was isolated fro the recombinant plasmid pHT113 by double digestion with the restriction endonucleases PRtI and Hindill and the cDNA fragment was further digested partially with the restriction endonuclease HgiAI to obtain the DNA fragment about 820 bp including the base seqnence encoding most of the precursor polypeptide.The resultingDNA fragment was ligated with a chemically synthesized oligodeoxyribonucleotide fragment represented by the following formula 5 CGATATGAGCA 3 TATAC The ligated DNA fragment was referred to asPre TNF fragment. Separately, the DNA fragment containing a part of trp promoter region was cut out from plasma pDR720 by digesting with the restriction endonucleases EcoRI andHpaI, and the DNA fragment was ligated with the following chemically synthesized adaptor. 5 AACTAGTACG CAAGTTCACGTAAAAAGGGTAAT 3 TTGATCATGCGTTCAAGTGCATTTTTCCCATTAGC The resulting DNA fragment was ligated with the Pre TNF fragment and the ligated DNA fragment was combined with the DNA fragment about 4.3 kbp having an ampicillinresistance gene isolated from plasmid pBR322 by digesting with the restriction endonucleases EcoRI and HindIII. The expression plasmid pHTRP3 constructed by the above procedure was introduced into E. coli HB101, and the transformant was cultivated overnight at 37 C in the modified N 9 medium. The culture 0.05 ml was inoculated in 5 ml of the same medium, and cultivated at 37 C for 1 hour.Then, 3 beta indoleacrylic acid was added to give a final concentration of 20 micrograms ml, and the cultivation was continued overnight. The cells were collected by centrifugation and treated by the same methods as described inExample 2 tl to obtain a clarified lysate. The lysate had a cytotoxic activity of 1.8 x 104 units L 929 m1. Example 5 Production and purification of human TNF poly peptide 1 Production in Escherichia coli The transformant HBlOl pHTR9l obtained in Example 2 2 was used for the production of human TNF polypeptide.The transformant was cultivated overnight at 37 0C in LB broth supplemented with 12.5 micrograms ml of tetracycline.The culture was inoculated into 10 volumes of the modifiedM 9 medium used in Example 2 2 , and cultivated at 370C for 1 hour. After adding 3 beta indoleacrylic acid to give a final concentration of 20 micrograms ml, the cultivation was continued for 4 hours. The cells were collected and treated to obtain a clarified lysate by the same method as shown in Example 2 1 . The lysate was used for the purification of human TNF polypeptide. 2 Purification of human TNF polypeptide Human TNP polypeptide was purified from the lysate obtained in section 1 by the following procedure.To a column 5 x 20 cm packed with DEAE Sepharosc CL 6B Pharmacia previously equilibrated with 20mM Tris HCl pH 7.8 buffer, 1030 ml of the lysate was applied. The column was washed with 3 liters of the same buffer, and then eluted with a linear gradient of NaCl from zero to 0.3M in the same buffer at a flow rate of 133 ml hour. The eluate was fractionated into 10 ml fractions. The fractions having cytotoxic activity were collected and pooled. A recovery of a cytotoxic activity was 53 in this step, and a specific activity was increased up to about 9 times. The pooled active fractions were desalted and concentrated to one tenth volume by ultrafiltration withDiaflo using a YMlO membrane Amicon . The concentrate was subjected to preparative isoelectrofocusing gel electrophoresis. An aliquot of the concentrate was loaded onto a polyacrylamide gel plate 0.2 x 10 x 10 cm with a pH gradient ranging from pH 5.6 to pB 6.1 created with Immobiline LKB . The electrophoresis was carried out at 2,400 V for 16 hours at 15 C. The gel was sliced into lO mm width and the protein was eluted with 20raM Tris HCl pH 7.8 buffer. The above procedure was repeated. The eluates having cytotoxic activity were pooled and concentrated by ultrafiltration as above. Finally, the concentrate was applied onto a column 0.7 x 25 cm of Bio Gel P 6 BIO RAD and desalted. The desalted final preparation having cytotoxic activity was homogeneous on the basis of SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoretic analysis, and it was used as a purified human TNP polypeptide for analyses as mentioned in section tIIIl. Example 6 Process for preparation of lyophilized human TNF polypept ide The purified human TNF polypeptide solution obtained by the method described in Example 5 was used for preparation of a lyophilized human TNP polypeptide. Ten milliliters of the purified human TNF polypeptide solution containing a cytotoxic activity of 2.2 x 107 units LM was mixed with one tenth volume of 8 NaCl containing 108 human serum albumin and 20 D mannitol.After adjusting pH of the solution to 6.8, the resulting solution was sterilized by filtration through Microflow membrane Flow Labs., pore size 0.2 micron . Five milliliters of the sterile solution was dispensed into glass 7 vials and then lyophilized. Each vial contains 10 units LM of purified human TNF polypeptide.Referential Example 1 Preparation of Rabbit TNF cDNA 1 Preparation of TNF mRNA from macrophages of rabbit alveolus Rabbits weighing about 2.5 kg were intravenously injected with killed dried cells of Propionibacterium acnes at a dose of 100 mg per rabbit, and sacrificed 8 days later. The lungs were repeatedly washed with phosphate buffered saline through a tube inserted into the trachea of the animals, and alveolar macrophages were collected. 9About 3 x 10 alveolar macrophages were obtained from 12 rabbits. The alveolar macrophages were suspended in RPMI1640 medium containing 10 fetal bovine serum, and seeded in Petri dishes 8 cm in diameter at a cell density of 2 x cells per dish. They were pre cultivated at 37 0C in a fully humidified atmosphere containing 5 carbon dioxide.After pre cultivation for one hour, endotoxin lipopolysaccharide derived from E. coli , TPA phorbol 12myristate 13 acetate and cycloheximide protein synthesis inhibitor were added so that their final concentrations became 10 micrograms ml, 10 ng ml and 1 microgram ml, respectively. The cultivation was further continued for 4 to 4.5 hours total of 5 to 5.5 hours , the culture medium was removed by suction, and the macrophages adhered to the dishes were lysed and homogenized in a 5M guanidyl thio cyanate solution containing 0.68 sodium N lauroyl sarcosinate and 6mM sodium citrate. The homogenate was loaded on a 5.7M cesium chloride solution containing 0.1M EDTA, and centrifuged for 20 hours at 26,500 rpm using an ultracentrifuge RPS27 2 rotor, Hitachi Koki to obtain a totalRNA fraction as pellets.The pellets were dissolved in a small amount of 7M urea solution containing 0.35M NaCl, 20mM Tris HCl pH 7.4 and 20mM EDTA and recovered by precipitation from ethanol. From 12 rabbits, 5.2 mg of total RNA were obtained. The total RNA fraction was dissolved in 2 ml ofTE solution used in Example 1 1 , and the solution was heated at 65 C for 5 minutes. A NaCl solution was added to a final concentration of 0.5M, and the solution was applied onto a column of oligo dT cellulose previously equilibrated with the TE solution containing 0.5M NaCl. Poly A mRNA was eluted from the column with the TE solution in an yield of 314 micrograms. Two hundred micrograms of the resulting poly A mRNA was subjected to agarose gel electro çhoresis gel concentration 1 , in the presence of 6M urea, pH 4 , and fractionated into 7 fractions according to molecular sizes. Poly A mRNA was isolated from each gel fractionated by melting at 60 C for 10 minutes followed by successive extraction with phenol and chloroform, and by precipitation from ethanol.The content of rabbit TNF mRNA in poly A mRNA recovered from each fraction was determined by a mRNA translation assay using oocytes of Xenopus laevis. Rabbit TNF mRNA was recovered at a higher concentration from a fraction corresponding to a molecular size of 1.6 to 2.7 kb to be abbreviated as an enriched rabbitTNF mRNA . The enriched rabbit TNF mRNA fraction obtained herein was used in the following experiment. 2 Synthesis of cDNA cDNA was synthesized under the following conditions. Four micrograms of the enriched TNF mRNA fraction was dissolved in 100 microliters of 50mM Tris HCl pH 8.3 buffer containing lOmM Mac12, 70mM KCl, lmM dithiothreitol, 0.5mM of each of the four deoxyribonucleotide triphosphates, dTTP, dCTP, dATP and dGTP dCTP was labelled with 32p specific activity, 4.4 x 106 cpm nmole , 3 micrograms of oligo dT 12 18 and 80 units of reverse transcriptase derived from avian myeloblastosis virus and incubated at 430C for 90 minutes. Then the reaction was stopped by adding EDTA. The resulting cDNA mRNA hybrid was extracted with phenol chloroform 1 1 , and recovered from the aqueous phase by precipitation from ethanol.The mRNA template was removed by treating with an alkali at 65 to 70 C. The synthesized sscDNA was recovered by precipitation from ethanol. The sscDNA precipitate was dissolved in 40 microliters of a 0,1M Hepes pH 6.9 buffer containing 0.5mM of each of the four deoxyribonucleotide triphosphates, dATP, dTTP, dGTP and dCTP, 5mM MgCl2, 7OmM KC1, l.5mM 2 mercaptoethanol, and 8 units of E. coli DNA polymerase I large fragment , and incubated at 150C for 20 hours to synthesize dscDNA. The reaction was stopped by adding sodium dodecylsulfate. The dscDNA was extracted with phenol chloroform, and recovered by precipitation from ethanol. The resulting dscDNA was dissolved in 100 microliters of 50mM sodium acetate pH 4.5 containing lmMZnSO4, 200mM NaCl, 0.5 glycerol and 0.5 unit of S1 nuclease and incubated at 37 0C for 20 minutes to cleave the hairpin structure. The reaction was stopped by addingEDTA. The reaction mixture was extracted with phenol chloroform and then with diethyl ether. dscDNA was recovered by precipitation from ethanol. 3 Preparation of oligo dC tailed cDNA The dscDNA obtained as above was dissolved in 100 microliters of 130mM sodium cacodylate 30mM Tris HCl pH 6.8 buffer containing lmM Cowl2, O.lmM dithiothreitol, 0.2 microgram of poly A , 0.lmM 3H dCTP specific activity, 5400 cpm pmole and 10 units of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase and incubated at 37 0C for 20 minutes to permit the addition of oligo dC tails to the 3 termini of dscDNA. The reaction was stopped by adding EDTA. The reaction mixture was extracted with phenol chloroform and then with diethyl ether, and the oligo dC tailed dscDNA was recovered by precipitation from ethanol. The oligo dC tailed dscDNA was dissolved in lOmM Tris HCl pH 7.4 buffer containing lmM EDTA and lOOmM NaCl so that it contained 0.2 microgram of the oligo dC tailed dscDNA per ml. 4 Preparation of oligo dG tailed plasmid pBR322 DNA pBR322 10 micrograms was dissolved in 100 microliters of 2OmM Tris HCl pH 7.4 buffer containing lOmM MgCl2, 50mM NH4 2SO and 10 micrograms of bovine serum albumin, and 15 units of restriction endonucleasePstI was added. The mixture was incubated at 37 C for 1 hour. After the reaction was terminated, the reaction mixture was extracted with phenol chloroform, and the resulting DNA was recovered from the aqueous phase by precipitation from ethanol. The DNA obtained was dissolved in 200 microliters of the same reaction buffer as used in tailing of the dscDNA above except that it contained 80 units of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase and 3H dGTP instead of 3H dCTP and incubated at 37 0C for 20 minutes to add about 10 15 dG residues per end. The reaction mixture was extracted with phenol chloroform, and the oligo dG tailed plasmid pBR322 DNA was recovered from the aqueous phase by ethanol precipitation. The resulting tailed plasmid DNA was dissolved in the same buffer as used in dissolving the oligo dC tailed dscDNA so that it contained the tailed plasmid DNA in a concentration of 2 micrograms per ml. 5 Construction of a recombinant plasmid Fifty microliters of the oligo dC tailed cDNA solution was mixed with 50 microliters of the oligo dG tailed pBR322 DNA solution, and the mixture was incubated sequentially at 65OC for 10 minutes, at 57 0C for 120 minutes, at 450C for 60 minutes, at 350C for 60 minutes and at room temperature for 60 minutes to perform annealing and to construct recombinant plasmids. 6 Selection of transformants E. coli x1776 strain was transformed with the recombinant plasmids obtained as above. Specifically, E. coli x1776 was cultivated at 37 C in 20 ml of L broth supplemented with 100 micrograms ml of diaminopimelic acid and 40 micrograms ml of thymidine until the turbidity at 600 nm reached 0.5. The cells were collected by centrifugation at 0 0C, and washed with lOmM Tris HCl pH 7.3 buffer containing 50 mM Caul2. The cells were resuspended in 2 ml of the same buffer as used above, and left to stand at 0 C for 5 minutes. To 0.2 ml of the suspension was added 0.1 ml of the recombinant plasmid solution obtained as above. The mixture was left and stand at 0 C for 15 minutes and then maintained at 42 C for 2 minutes. Then, 0,5 ml of the supplementedL broth used above was added, and cultivation was carried out with shaking for 1 hour. An aliquot of the culture was taken, spread on the supplemented L broth agar plate containing 15 micrograms ml of tetracycline, and cultivated at 37 0C for about 12 hours. Transformants resistant to tetracycline were selected, which were used as a cDNA library. 7 Hybridization assay Colony hybridization assay was conducted using a 32P labelled cDNA probe by the method of Hanahan andMeselson in order to screen the cDNA library for transformants which had a plasmid containing cDNA encoding rabbit TNF. Induct ion plus and induction minus 32P labelled sscDNA probes were synthesized by the method described in section 2 above using mRNAs obtained from induction plus and minus alveolar macrophages by the method described in section 1 except that 32P dCTP with high specific radioactivity was used. By this test, there were selected colonies of transformants harboring the recombinant plasmids which strongly hybridized with the induction plus probe but did not hybridize with the induction minus probe. Fifty colonies were selected from about 20,000 colonies. Twenty out of the selected 50 colonies were then subjected to a mRNA hybridization translation assay by the method described in T. Maniatis et al. end HolecularCloning1, 329 1980 , Cold Spring Harbor Lab. The plasmidDNA was extracted from each of the transformants and fixed to nitrocellulose filters after heat denaturation. The poly A mRNA fraction containing rabbit TNF mRNA obtained in section 1 above was added to the filter and incubated at 50 C for 3 hours to perform hybridization. The hybridized mRNA was recovered and injected into the oocytes to determine whether the recovered mRNA was rabbit TNF mRNA.As a result of this test, three colonies were found to have plasmids containing cDNAs that strongly hybridized with the rabbit TNF mRNA. cDNA fragments were obtained from the plasmid having cDNA of the largest size about 750 bp by digestion with the restriction endonuclease DdeI, and used as a probe for further screening. These DNA fragments were labelled with 32P. By using these probes, the cDNA library obtained in section 6 above was screened by a colony hybridization assay, and colonies of transformants having plasmids containing cDNAs which strongly hybridized with the labelled probes were selected. Ninety eight colonies out of about 60,000 colonies of the cDNA library were found to be positive in this test.The recombinant plasmid DNA was isolated and cDNA inserts were cut out from these recombinant plasmids by digestion with the restriction endonuclease PstI, and their sizes were measured by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Seventeen clones of transformants having cDNA inserts of at least 1 kbp were selected. From a transformant containing cDNA of the largest size transformant No X1776 pRTNF802 plasmidNo. pRTNF8O2 , the cloned cDNA was isolated, and its base sequence was determined by the following method. 8 Determination of the base sequence of the cloned cDNA The tranformant X1776 pRTNF802 selected in section 7 above was cultivated in L broth supplemented with diaminopimelic acid and thymidine. The cells were treated in accordance with the method of Wilkie et al. to obtain a plasmid DNA. The plasmid DNA was digested with the restriction endonuclease PstI, and purified to obtain a cloned cDNA. The cloned cDNA fragment was further digested with various restriction endonucleases, and the base sequences of suitable restriction endonuclease cleaved fragments were determined by Maxam Gilbert method. The base sequence determined is shown in Table 9 below. The base sequence of the 277th to 738th bases were assigned to the coding region for mature rabbit TNF according to the N terminal and C terminal amino acid sequences of TNF purified from rabbit plasma elucidated in Referential Example 2. The 34th to 276th bases constitute a base sequence which is presumed to encode a polypeptide required for constituting a precursor of rabbit TNF.Referential Example 2 Isolation and purification of rabbit plasma TNF Rabbits body weighing 2. 5 to 3.0 kg were injected intravenously with 50 mg of killed dried cells ofPropionibacterium acnes. Eight days later, the rabbits were intravenously injected with 100 micrograms of endotoxin lipopolysaccharide derived from E. coli . Two hours later, blood was taken from each rabbit by cardiac puncture. The blood was mixed with 100 units of sodium heparin per 100 ml, and then centrifuged at 5,000 rpm for 30 minutes under cooling to remove blood cells and insoluble matters. Twenty four liters of the plasma was obtained from 400 rabbits. EDTA 24 g and 240 g of celite were added to 24 liters of the plasma, and the mixture was stirred for 1 hour and then filtered successively through filters having a pore size of 3 microns, 1 micron and 0.2 micron. To 24 liters of the filtrate was added 12 liters of 0.04M Tris HCl pH 7.8 buffer, and the mixture was applied onto a column 27 x 45 cm of DEAE Sepharose CL 6B Pharmacia equilibrated with 0.04M Tris HCl pH 7.8 buffer containing 0.1M Nail. The column was then washed with 75 liters of 0.04M Tris HCl pH 7.8 buffer containing 0.1M NaCl and then with 50 liters of 0.04M Tris HCl pH 7.8 buffer containing 0.l5M NAIL, and then eluted with 0.04M Tris HCl pH 7.2 buffer containing 0.18M NaCl.The eluate was fractionated into 8 liter fractions, and active fractions having cytotoxic activity were collected. The active fractions were pooled and diluted with an equal volume of 0.04M Tris HCl pH 7.8 buffer. The diluted solution was applied onto a column 10 x 13 cm of DEAESepharose CL 6B. The column was washed with 1 liter of 0.04M Tris HCl pH 7.8 buffer containing O.5M NaCl and then eluted with 5 liters of 0.04M Tris HCl pH 7.2 buffer containing 0.18M NaCl. The eluate was fractionated into 250 ml fractions and fractions having cytotoxic activity were collected and pooled. The active fraction was heated at 60 0C for 30 minutes and rapidly cooled to 40C. The cooled solution was concentrated by ultrafiltration. The resulting concentrate was applied onto a column 5 x 80 cm of Sephacryl S 200 Pharmacia equilibrated with 0.005M phosphate pH 7.4 buffer containing 0.1M NaCl, and eluted with the same buffer. The eluate was fractionated into 40 ml fractions, and active fractions were collected, pooled and concentrated by ultrafiltration. The concentrate of the active fraction obtained by gel filtration was applied onto a column of Zn2 chelateSepharose as shown below. A column 1.6 x 20 cm filled with chelate Sepharose iminodiacetic acid fixed resin prepared by the method of J. Porath et al., Nature, 258, 598 1975 1 was washed with 120 ml of zinc chloride solution 1 mg ml and then equilibrated with 0.05M phosphate pH 7.4 buffer containing 0.1M NaCl. Then, the concentrate obtained in the previous step was applied onto the column, and eluted with the same buffer. Fractions not adsorbed on the column were collected. Cytotoxic activity was almost completely recovered in these fractions. The active fractions obtained in the previous step were concentrated and applied onto a column 1.5 x 90 cm of Toyopearl HW 55 Toyo Soda Co., Ltd. fully equilibrated with 0.005M phosphate pH 7.4 buffer containing 0.15M NaCl. The column was eluted with the same buffer, and active fractions were pooled. This preparation was a purified rabbit plasma TNF. This purified rabbit plasma TNF obtained herein was used in Referential Examples 3 and 4.Referential Example 3 Determination of N terminal and C terminal amino acid sequences of rabbit plasma TNF The purified rabbit plasma TNF obtained inReferential Example 2 was used for the determination of theN terminal and C terminal amino acid sequences. The N terminal amino acid sequence was determined by the Edman degradation method. The resulting phenylthiohydantoin amino acids were identified by high performance liquid chromatography using a Zorbax ODS column Du Pont . The C terminal amino acid sequence was determined by the enzymatic method using carboxypeptidases. The purified rabbit plasma TNF was digested with the carboxypeptidases A and Y, at molar ratios of enzyme to substrate of 1 25 and 1 1,000 respectively. The free amino acids released from the C terminus of rabbit plasma TNF by the double digestion were identified by a micro amino acid analyzer Shimadzu Seisakusho at appropriate intervals from 2 minutes to 180 minutes after the digestion. It was consequently found that the N terminal andC terminal amino acid sequences of rabbit plasma TNF were as follows N terminal Ser Ala Ser Arg Ala ..... C terminal Val Tyr Phe Gly Ile Ile Ala LeuReferential Example 4 Preparation of an anti rabbit plasma TNF antibody TNF solution containing 1.9 x 105 units L 929 of the purified rabbit plasma TNF obtained in ReferentialExample 2 was emulsified with an equal volume of theFreund s complete adjuvant, and the emulsion was injected subcutaneously into the back of guinea pigs at several parts. Then, the animals were immunized by the same method 1, 3 and 6 weeks later. Furthermore, 8 weeks later, the same amount of the purified rabbit plasma TNF was intraperitoneally injected together with aluminum hydroxide gel. The whole blood was taken by cardiac puncture 9 weeks after the first immunization, and centrifuged to obtain an antiserum containing an anti rabbit plasma TNF antibody. The antiserum was passed through a column ofSepharose 4B coupled with serum protein components of normal rabbits. By repeating it 3 times a purified antibody specific for the rabbit plasma TNF was obtained.It was confirmed by immunoelectrophoresis and gel double diffusion methods that this antibody formed a singie precipitation line only with the purified rabbit plasmaTNF. An about 60,000 fold dilution of this purified antibody has the ability of neutralizing 50 of 500 units L 929 of the cytotoxic activity of the rabbit plasma TNF, and an about 1,000 fold dilution of the antibody can completely neutralize 50 units LM of the cytotoxic activity of the rabbit plasma TNF.