# Multi purpose portable exercising apparatus.

## Abstract
Portable exercising apparatus 10 for muscles in the arm, shoulder, hip, knee, wrist, back, abdomen, lower leg and ankle regions include an elongated tube 12 and a slide member 18 having a friction mounting on the tube 12 . A force measuring mechanism 26 is coupled to the tube 12 so as to measure external forces exerted by the user. Various bracket structures form exercise units 200 for selectively exercising the various muscle groups.

## Claims
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows 1. In a portable exercise apparatus 10 for use by a user to exercise a variety of muscle skeletal groups and comprising an elongated tube 12 a slide member 16 mounted on said tube 12 means 112 providing frictional resistance to rela tive sliding movement between said slide member 16 and said tube 12 force measuring means 26 mounted to said tube 12 to measure and visually indicate frictional force between said slide member 16 and said tube 12 during relative movement between said slide member 16 and said tube 112 , said force measuring means 26 including a re active member 24 mounted so as to allow linear move ment between said reactive member 24 and said tube 12 and means 72, 82 resiliently biasing said reactive member 24 to a neutral position with respect to said tube 12 , or said tube 12 to a neutral position with respect to said reactive member 24 the improvement which comprises means 52, 60 between said tube 12 and said re active member 24 for translating relative linear move ment between said tube 12 and said reactive member 24 to proportional rotational movement. 2. A portable exercise apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein said means 52, 60 for translating said linear movement comprises a rack and pinion assembly. 3. A portable exercise apparatus in accordance with claim 2 wherein said reactive member 24 comprises an elongated member at least partially received within one end of said tube 12 and rigidly secured to a rack 64 of said rack and pinion assembly 52, 60 said rack and pinion assembly 52, 60 comprises a pinion gear 52 mounted to said tube 12 and rotatably engaged with said rack 64 said resilient biasing means 72, 82 comprises com pression spring means mounted within saia tube 12 for exerting increasing resistance to relative movement of said tube 12 and said reactive member 34 and said force measuring means 26 further comprises spring cup means 60 positioned within said tube 12 so as to allow relative sliding movement between said spring cup means 60 and said tube 12 for supporting said rack and at least one end pf said compression spring means. 4. A portable exercise apparatus in accordance with claim 3 wherein said compression spring means 72, 82 comprises first and second compression springs coaxially positioned within said tube 12 , and wherein relative axial move ment between said reactive member 24 and said tube 12 in one direction causes compression of said first com pression spring 72 , and relative axial movement of said tube 12 and said reactive member 24 in an opposing direction causes compression of said second compression spring 82 . 5. A portable exercise apparatus in accordance with claim 4 wherein said force measuring means 26 further comprises a spring cup 60 slidably positioned within said tube 12 , wherein said rack 64 is mounted to said spring cup 60 and said first compression spring 72 extends axially within said tube 60 and is secured at one end to said spring cup 60 and a slide rod 56 extending axially through said spring cup 60 at least partially through said tube 12 and secured at one end to said reactive member 24 . 6. A portable exercise apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein said force measuring means 26 comprises a dial face 32 mounted on said tube 12 and visible to said user, and a pointer 34 rotatably mounted on said dial face 32 to visually indicate forces applied to said slide member 16 by said user. 7. A portable exercise apparatus in accordance with claim 1 and further comprising means 14 to adjustably limit relative movement between said slide member 16 and said tube 12 , wherein said slide member 16 can be limited to movement along the entire length of said tube 12 down to no movement at selected positions along the length of said tube 12 for isometric strength testing and or isometric exercise at any position within the range of movement of said slide member 16 on said tube 12 . 8. An exercise apparatus in accordance with claim 1 and further comprising lubrication rings 15 slidably re ceived on said elongated tube 12 for decreasing the frictional resistance to relative axial movement bet ween said slide member 16 and said elongated tube 12 . 9. A shoulder exercise apparatus 200 comprising a portable structural frame 202 providing a fixed base support while said exercise apparatus 200 is in use and having body positioning means 210 to position one portion of a user s body an elongated tube 12 having first and second ends means mounting said first end of said tube 12 to said frame 202 a slide member 16 slidably mounted to said tube 12 means 112 providing frictional resistance to movement of said slide member 16 along said tube 12 body engaging means 208 on one of said slide member 16 and said body positioning means 210 to restrain movement of a user body member with respect to said slide member 16 or said body positioning means, respectively, during axial movement of said slide member 16 on said tube 12 whereby said frame 202 and body positioning means 210 provide a reactive relationship to the axial move ment of said slide member 16 on said tube 12 and force measuring means 26 for visually indicating to said user the relative magnitude of force applied between said slide member 16 and said tube 12 . 10. An exercise apparatus in accordance with claim 9 wherein said body engaging means 208 is mounted on said body positioning means 210 and further comprises means to selectively connect said body engaging means 208 to different portions of said frame and said tube mounting means 118 comprises means for pivotably connecting said tube 12 to said frame 202 so that said tube 12 can pivot with respect to said frame 202 as said user moves said slide member 16 relative to said tube 12 . 11. A knee joint exercise apparatus 300, 400 comprising a portable structural frame 306, 402 providing a fixed base support while said exercise apparatus 300, 400 is in use, having body positioning means 304,404 to position one portion of a user s body an elongated tube 12 having first and second ends elongated means 316, 408 having a first end con nected to said frame 306, 402 for offsetting the locating of said tube 12 from said frame 306, 402 means 314, 420 connected to a second end of said elongated means 316, 408 for pivotably mounting said first end of said tube 12 to said elongated means 316, 408 a slide member 16 slidably mounted to said tube 12 means providing frictional resistance 112 to move ment of said slide member 16 along said tube 12 body engaging means 326, 428 mounted to said slide member 16 and adapted to receive one of said user s legs below the knee joint so as to restrain movement of said leg with respect to said slide member 16 during axial movement of said slide member 16 on said tube 12 force measuring means 26 mounted to said elongated tube 12 for visually indicating to said user the re lative magnitude of force applied between said slide member 16 and said tube 12 and whereby said frame 306, 402 and said body positioning means 304, 404 provide a reactive relationship to axial movement of said slide member 16 on said tube 12 . 12. An exercise apparatus in accordance with claim 11 wherein said elongated means comprises a pair of tubular bars 408 , each having one end connected to said frame 402 and another end located downwardly therefrom and connected to said pivotable mounting means 420 . 13. A wrist ankle exercise apparatus 500 comprising a portable structural frame 502 providing a fixed base support while said exercise apparatus 500 is in use an elongated tube 12 mounted to said frame 502 a slide member 16 slidably mounted on said tube 12 means 112 providing frictional resistance to.move ment of said slide member 16 along said tube 12 a slide actuating member 528 rotatably mounted to said frame 502 and coupled to said slide member 16 to translate rotational movement of said slide actuating member 528 to linear motion of said slide member 16 on said tube 12 force measuring means 26 mounted to said elongated tube 12 for visually indicating to said user the relative magnitude of force applied to said slide member 16 on said tube 12 and whereby a user may move said slide member 16 along said tube by rotation of said slide actuating member 528 . 14. An exercise apparatus in accordance with claim 13 and further comprising pedal means 564 mounted to said slide actuating member 528 and operable by said user through rotation of an ankle of said user. 15. An exercise apparatus in accordance with claim 13 and further comprising crank means 556 releasably mounted to said slide actuating member 528 so that said user can move said slide member 16 along said tube by rotation of a wrist. 16. An exercise apparatus in accordance with claim 13 and further comprising handle means 520, 548 releasably secured to said slide actuating member 526 swo that said user can move said slide member along said tube by axial rotation of an arm. 17. An exercise apparatus in accordance with claim 13 and further comprising a goniometer 530 mounted to said slide actuating member 528 for indicating td said user the degree of rotation of said slide actuating member during rotation thereof. 18. A multi purpose exercise apparatus 600 comprising a portable structural frame 602 for providing a fixed base support while the exercise apparatus 600 is in use, and having body positioning means 604 6 position one portion of a user s body an exercise bar assembly 624 comprising a slide member 16 , an elongated tube 12 slidably received through said slide member 16 , and means 112Y for providing frictional resistance to movement of said tube 12 through said sleeve member 16 means for mounting said bar assembly 624 to said frame 602 force measuring means 26 mounted to said tube 12 for visually indicating to said user the relative ii magnitude of force applied between said slide member 16 and said tube 12 and force applying means 628, 636, 638 mounted to said bar assembly 624 and selectively positioned relative to said user so as to bear against said user s upper front region, back or upper legs, or re leasably gripped by said user s hands for exerting axially directed forces on said tube 12 relative to said slide member 16 in response to forces exerted by said user. 19. An exercise apparatus in accordance with claim 18 wherein said force applying means 628, 636, 638 comprises releasably secured strap means 638 so that said user, while maintaining a seated upright position on said body positioning means, can move said tube 12 through said slide member 16 by exerting forces against said strap means 638 through his or her back. 20. An exercise apparatus in accordance with claim 18 wherein said force applying means 628, 636, 638 compri ses a flat. surface 636 adjacent one end of said tube 12 and located in a perpendicular plane relative to said tube 12 . 21. An exercise apparatus in accordance with claim 18 wherein said mounting means 622 comprises means for pivotably mounting said slide member 16 to said frame 602 and further provides for said tube to be angled relative to said frame. 22. An exercise apparatus in accordance with claim 18 wherein said force applying means 628, 636, 638 comprises handgrips 628 extending laterally from said tube. 23. An exercise apparatus in accordance with claim 13 wherein said force applying means 628, 636, 638 comprises a strap 638 which is adapted to be re leasably secured around the chest of said user for movement of said tube 12 by reciprocal rotational movement of said user s upper body with respect to the seat 604 thereof.

## Description
Description Multi Purpose Portable Exercising ApParatusTechnical Field The invention relates to exercising apparatus and, more particularly, to portable apparatus for exercising selected muscle groups and measuring relative magnitudes of forces exerted during exercise.Background Art Renown equipment for exercising and strengthening various muscle groups include the commonly known hand held squeezing devices for exercising muscles of the hands and lower arms. More complex devices use weights, springs, or other pre set resistances to movement. Such devices require the user to use only that amount o strength necessary to move the device through a weakest part of any movement. Other devices have been developed which offer resistance at a level adapting automatically to the user s abilities and providing resistance at a level the same or nearly the same as the force applied throughout the entire range of an exercise stroke. Such equipment is typically referred to as n isokineticw exercising equipment. Many isokinetic exercise devices are relatively large, complex, expensive and require frequent maintenance and positioning at a stationary location. Examples of isokinetic exercising equipment are disclosed in the United States patents to Mattox 4,249,725 issued February 10, 1981, and 4,385,760 issuedMay 31, 1983. More recently, a new isokinetic exercise device has the form of a cane, which is relatively portable and capable of movement from location to location. This device is particularly advantageous for handicapped individuals. Although the cane provides substantial advantages over other known exercising equipment, the number and variety of different exercises that can be performed for muscle skeletal groups in a particular body region is limited. For example, the variety of exercises available for muscle skeletal groups in the shoulder region is limited when the user must grip the exercising apparatus with both hands, or when the apparatus does not provide any supporting structure for the user s arm region so as to gain leverage. One type of known exercise apparatus at least partially overcoming these disadvantages and specifically directed to exercises for shoulder and wrist muscle skeletal groups employs a bell crank coupled to a sleeve like slide. The slide is friction mounted to a horizontal stationary tube connected to opposing ends of a supporting structure. Rotation of the bell crank is opposed in an isokinetic manner by the resistance to the movement of the slide in an axial direction with respect to the tube. Exercises for muscle skeletal groups in the hip regions are limited when the exercising apparatus does not provide any arrangement for supporting or securing different parts of the legs during exercise. One type of known exercise apparatus specifically directed to exercises for the muscle skeletal groups in the hip regions and incorporating a leg supporting device includes a base support and an exercise bar pivotally coupled to the base support. A slide is frictionmounted to the bar, and includes a saddle assembly for securing the patients leg during exercise. The cane like arrangement also is not particularly suited to exercises associated with muscles in the knee and lower leg regions. One type of known exercise apparatus specifically directed to exercises for the muscle skeletal groups in the knee joint regions employs a base support and an exercise bar pivotally coupled to a pair of tubular bars extending downwardly from the base support. A slide is friction mounted on the bar, and includes a saddle assembly for securing a patient s leg during exercise. The scope of exercises for muscles in the ankle region is limited when the apparatus does not include any devices for securing the user s ankle. In addition, the variety of exercises available for muscle skeletal groups in the back and abdomen regions are limited when the exercising apparatus does not include any supporting structure for exerting forces against the structure by using back and abdomen muscles. It is also advantageous if exercising apparatus is not only adapted for exercising of various muscle skeletal groups, but also includes devices to measure forces exerted by the user during exercise. One type of exercising device employing a force measuring mechanism is disclosed in the United States patent to Varney, et al, 3,971,255 issued July 27, 1976. The Varney, et al patent discloses an exercise bar having a sleeve mounted to an elongated tube and slidable with respect to the tube. Bushings within the tube provide a friction slide between the sleeve and the tube, and handles are provided on the sleeve and at one end of the tube. Resistance of the sleeve on the tube is provided through a flat headed pin and an adjustable tension spring which exerts forces on the pin. A force measuring device is provided by a coil spring positioned between the outer end of the sleeve and an internal bushing. A gauge mounted on the sleeve indicates the amount of force applied by the user.Summary of the Invention In accordance with the invention, a portable exercise apparatus to exercise various muscle groups includes an elongated tube, a slide member mounted on the tube and means providing frictional resistance to relative sliding movement between the member and the tube. Force measuring means mounted to the tube measure and visually indicate frictional force between the slide member and the tube. The force measuring means includes a reactive member mounted to allow linear movement between the reactive member and the tube. Means resiliently bias the reactive member and tube to neutral positions, and means between the tube and reactive member translate relative linear movement to proportional rotational movement. Means for translating linear movement include a rack and pinion assembly. The reactive member includes an elongated member partially received within the tube and rigidly secured to the rack. A pinion gear is mounted to the tube and rotatably engaged with the rack. The resilient biasing means includes compression spring means mounted to the tube to exert increasing resistance to relative movement of the tube and reactive member.The force measuring means includes spring cup means to allow sliding movement between the spring cup means and tube to support the rack and one end of the compression spring means. The compression spring means includes first and second compression springs within the tube. Axial movement between the reactive member and tube in one direction causes compression of the first compression spring, and axial movement in the other direction causes compression of the second compression spring. The force measuring means includes a spring cup slidably positioned within the tube, and the rack is mounted to the spring cup with the first compression spring extending axially within the tube and secured at one end to the spring cup. A slide rod extends axially through the spring cup at least partially through the tube and is secured at one end to the reactive member. The force measuring means includes a dial face mounted on the tube and visible to the user. A pointer is rotatably mounted on the dial face to visually indicate applied forces. Means are provided to adjustably limit relative movement between the slide member and the tube. The means includes rings slidably mounted on the tube on each slide of the slide member. The slide member can be limited to movement alone the entire length of the tube down to no movement at selected positions along the tube for isometric strength testing and isometric exercise. Lubrication rings on the tube can decrease frictional resistance to axial movement between the slide member and tube. For muscle groups in the shoulder regions, the apparatus includes a portable structural frame to provide a fixed base support, and body positioning means to position one portion of a user s body. Means mount a first end of the tube to the frame, and body engaging means on the slide member or body positioning means restrain movement of a user body member with respect to the slide member or body positioning means during axial movement of the slide member on the tube. The frame and body positioning means provide a reactive relationship to axial movement of the slide member on the tube. The body engaging means includes means to selectively connect to different frame portions. The tube mounting means includes means to pivotably connect the tube to the frame. For muscle groups in the hip and upper leg regions, the body engaging means can be mounted to receive one of the user s legs to restrain leg movement during axial movement of the slide member on the tube. The bodypositioning means can include a cushion on which the user may sit or lie in a prone position, and the bodyengaging means can include a U shaped saddle mounted to the slide meber, with means mounted to the saddle to releasably retain the leg within the saddle. For exercise of muscle groups in the knee and lower leg regions, the apparatus can include elongated means connected to the frame to offset the location of the tube from the frame. Means are connected to a second end of the elongated means to pivotably mount the first end of the tube to the elongated means. The elongated means includes a pair of tubular bars, each having one end connected to the frame and another end located down wardly from the frame and connected to the pivotable mounting means. For exercising muscle groups in the wrist, lower leg and ankle regions, the apparatus includes a slideactuating member rotatably mounted to a portable structural frame and coupled to the slide member to translate rotational movement of the slide actuating member to linear motion of the slide member on the tube. The user moves the slide member along the tube by rotation of the slide actuating member. Pedal means can be mounted to the slide actuating member and are operable by rotation of an ankle of the user. Crank means releasably mountable to the slideactuating member allow the user to move the slide member by wrist rotation. Handle means releasably securable to the slide actuating member allow the user to move the slide member by axial arm rotation. The apparatus can also include a goniometer mounted to the slide actuating member to indicate the degree of rotation of the slideactuating member. For exercise of various muscle groups, the apparatus can include force applying means for selectively bearing against the user s upper frontal region, back or upper legs, or to be releasably gripped by the user to exert axially directed forces on the tube relative to the slide member. The force applying means includes releasably secured strap means so that the user can move the tube through the slide member by exerting forces against the strap means through his or her back. The forceapplying means can include handgrips.Brief Description of the Drawings The invention will now be described with reference to the drawings in which Figure 1 is a perspective view of a portable exercising apparatus in accordance with one embodiment of the invention Figure 2 is a sectional view of the apparatus show ing the force measuring mechanism and taken along lines 2 2 of Figure 1 Figure 3 is a sectional view of the force measuring mechanism taken along lines 3 3 of Figures 1 and 2 Figure 4 is a sectional view of the apparatus showing a friction mounting of the power slide to the tube and taken along lines 4 4 of Figure 1 Figure 5 depicts use of the apparatus for ankle plantar flex ion Figure 6 depicts use for scapular abduction and outward rotation Figure 7 depicts use for scapular elevation Figure 8 depicts use for shoulder flex ion Figure 9 depicts use for shoulder extension Figure 10 depicts use for shoulder horizontal abduction Figure 11 depicts use for shoulder lateral and medial rotation Figure 12 depicts use to provide shoulder flexion involving pectoral is major and deltoid muscles Figure 13 is a perspective view of an apparatus in accordance with the invention and adapted for exercising muscles skeletal groups in the shoulder region Figure 14 is a plan view of the apparatus depicted in Figure 13 Figure 15 depicts use of the shoulder apparatus for shoulder internal and external rotation Figure 16 depicts use for shoulder lateral and medial rotation Figure 17 depicts use for elbow flexion and extension Figure 18 is a perspective view of an apparatus in accordance with the invention for exercising muscle skeletal groups in the hip joint regions Figure 19 is a plan view of the apparatus shown inFigure 18 Figure 20 is a sectional view of the force measuring mechanism of the apparatus taken along lines 20 20 of Figure 18 Figure 21 depicts use for hip flexion and extension Figure 22 depicts use for hip abduction and adduction Figure 23 depicts use for exercises whereby the patient s leg is raised while fully extended Figure 24 is a perspective view of an apparatus in accordance with the invention for exercising muscle skeletal groups in the knee joint regions Figure 25 is a plan view of the knee joint exercising apparatus shown in Figure 24 Figure 26 depicts use for knee flexion and extension while the person is in a sitting position Figure 27 is a perspective view of an apparatus in accordance with the invention for exercising muscle skeletal groups in the wrist and ankle regions Figure 28 is a rear view taken along lines 28 28 ofFigure 27 Figure 29A depicts a handle assembly alternatively employed with the apparatus shown in Figure 27 Figure 29B depicts an alternative handle assembly Figure 29C depicts a foot pedal assembly alternatively employed with the apparatus shown in Figure 27 Figure 30 depicts use for forearm rotation Figure 31 depicts use for wrist flexion and extension with the handle assembly shown in Figure 29B Figure 32 depicts use for wrist flexion and extension with the alternative handle assembly depicted inFigure 29A Figure 33 depicts use for ankle flexion with employment of the foot pedal assembly Figure 34 depicts use for lower leg rotation, with employment of the foot pedal assembly Figure 35 is a perspective view of an apparatus in accordance with the invention for exercising muscle skeletal groups in the shoulders, back, abdomen and arms Figure 36 depicts use with the patient in a seated, upright position to exercise muscle skeletal groups in the back and abdomen regions Figure 37 depicts use of with the patient in a supine position to exercise muscle skeletal groups in the back and abdomen regions while limiting weight loading on the spine Figure 38 depicts use with the patient in a seated, upright position, to exercise muscle skeletal groups in the shoulder region and Figure 39 depicts use with the patient in a seated, upright position, and with the bar mechanism angled so that the patient will exercise bicep and tricep muscle groups in the arm regions.Detailed Description Certain principals of the invention are disclosed in a portable exercise bar apparatus 10 depicted in Figures 1 4. Apparatus 10 is used by individuals as a standalone unit to exercise various muscles skeletal groups. Apparatus 10 is simple in design, lightweight, and portable, thereby particularly advantageous for use by handicapped individuals or other patients undergoing rehabilitative exercise therapy. Apparatus 10 provides resistance to movement during an exercise stroke, thereby requiring strengthening forces to be exerted by the patient. Apparatus 10 includes force measuring means to provide a visual indication of the forces exerted by the user during exercise. Referring to Figure 1, apparatus 10 includes an elongated outer tube 12 preferably constructed of a lightweight but durable metal. Mounted to the tube 12 are a pair of adjustable control rings 14. Each of control rings 14 includes a thumb screw 17 to allow the user to secure rings 14 at selected positions along the radial outer surface of tube 12. A pair of lubrication rings 15 are mounted on tube 12 inwardly of rings 14.Lubrication rings 15 can be made of leather or similar material, and impregnated with a lubricant. Positioned between rings 14 and received on tube 12 is a power slide 16 comprising a sleeve 18 and slide handle 20 radially extending from sleeve 18. A friction mounting is provided between sleeve 18 and tube 12 so that sleeve 18 is slidable along tube 12, but with force required to generate the sliding movement. The friction mounting can provide a substantially higher frictional resistance to movement of sleeve 18 in one direction relative to the axial length of outer tube 12 than in the opposite direction. Ordinarily, a friction mounting arrangement works in an isotropic manner. The friction mounting can provide a frictional resistance directly proportional to the linear forces exerted by the user and applied to sleeve 18 relative to tube 12. One friction mounting arrangement comprising several of these features and suitable for use with apparatus 10 is depicted in Figure 4. Referring thereto, sleeve 18 of power slide 16 comprises a tubular member 100 concentric with the axis of tube 12. The inner diameter of member 100 is larger than the outer diameter of tube 12 so that an annular space is provided there between.Annular shoulders 102 are formed in the inner surface of member 100. Member 100 is supported on tube 12 by annular frictionless bushings 104 and 106. Bushings 104 and 106 are maintained on member 100 through connecting means, such as set screws, staking or adhesive connections. Slide handle 20 comprises a tubular handle 108 secured to member 100 by rigid means such as welds.Alternatively, handle 108 can be releasably secured to member 100. A rubber covering 110 is bonded to handle 108 to provide a firm gripping surface. A pair of brake mechanisms 112 are mounted within member 100 adjacent frictionless bushings 104 and 106, and in abutting relationship with corresponding shoulders 102. Brake mechanisms 112 each comprise an elongated annular bushing, preferably made of plastic and having an internal ramped or conical surface 114. A pair of rubber O rings 116 are slidably mounted on tube 12, each fitting within an end of a corresponding brake mechanism 112. The inner diameter of each O ring 116 is only slightly smaller than the outer diameter of tube 12 so that there is some frictional resistance between eachO ring 116 and tube 12. Any suitable rubber or synthetic rubbery material can be used for O rings 116. In operation, the user can grip handle 20 and move it, for example, to the right as viewed in Figure 4.Rubber covering 110 on handle 20 provides a secure gripping surface. As handle 20 is moved to the right, as shown in Figure 4, frictional resistance between O ring 116 on the right and tube 12 causes right side O ring 116 to ride up on corresponding and adjacent ramp surface 114, thereby increasing frictional resistance between O ring 116 and tube 12. The extent of movement of right side O ring 116 and the extent of frictional forces between right side O ring 116 and tube 12 depends on the forces applied by the user to handle 20. The harder the forces, the greater the frictional resistance of sleeve 18. Thus, sleeve 18 provides a varying kinematic resistance to movement along tube 12, the amount of frictional resistance being dependent on the amount of force applied to sleeve 18 with respect to tube 12. During movement of sleeve 18 to the right as viewed in Figure 4, left side O ring 116 moves into abutting relationship with corresponding bushing 104. In this position of left sided O ring 116 with respect to surface 114 of corresponding brake mechanism 112, little or no frictional resistance is applied by left side O ring 116 on tube 12. However, movement of sleeve 18 to the left as viewed in Figure 4 will cause left side O ring 116 to ride up on ramp surface 114 of corresponding left side brake mechanism 112. In the same manner as previously described for movement of sleeve 18 to the right, the amount of frictional resistance between sleeve 18 and tube 12 is dependent on the amount of forces applied to sleeve 18 with respect to tube 12. Although Figure 4 depicts a particular friction mounting between power slide 16 and tube 12, other types of friction mounting arrangements can be employed with apparatus 10. Referring again to Figure 1, positioned at one end of tube 12 is an end handle 22 comprising a hand grip 23 constructed of a rubber covering or other means to provide a firm gripping surface. Hand grip 23 is coupled to a handle rod 24 through an attached bracket 25. Mounted to tube 12 adjacent end handle 22 is a force measuring mechanism 26. Referring to Figures 1, 2 and 3, force measuring mechanism 26 includes a circular gauge housing 28 rigidly mounted to tube 12 by means of a gauge bracket mounting 30. Bracket mounting 30 includes an angled bracket 40 secured to the bottom of gauge housing 28 and one of two straight brackets 42 through screws 44. At the upper portion of tube 12, housing 28 is directly mounted to tube 12 by screws 44 connected through a second one of brackets 42. Mounted within housing 28 is a dial face 32 having spaced apart markings to provide a visual indication of forces exerted by the user. Rotatably mounted immediately above dial face 32 is a dial pointer 34. Dial pointer 34 is secured to a gear shaft 50 by screw 46 and stationary washer plate 48. Mounting of dial pointer 34 above dial face 32, and mounting of gear shaft 50 through dial gauge housing 28 and dial face 32, allows shaft 50 to rotate relative to dial face 32, thereby correspondingly rotating dial pointer 34 to indicate magnitudes of extended forces. Gear shaft 50 extends downwardly relative to the position of tube 12 depicted in Figure 2. Rigidly mounted to gear shaft 50 at its lower end is a pinion gear 52 having a series of gear teeth 66. As shown inFigure 3, teeth 66 extend into a slot 68 located in the radial surface of tube 12. As also shown in Figure 3, a stop and guide block 54 is mounted in the end of tube 12 adjacent to end handle 22. Handle rod 24 extends inwardly from end handle 22 into tube 12 through the guide block 54. The end of handle rod 24 extending into tube 12 includes a recessed area conforming to the shape of a slide rod 56. One end of slide rod 56 is rigidly secured to handle rod 24 by a cotter pin 58 or other suitable connecting means. Slide rod 56 extends at least partially along the axial length of tube 12, is centrally positioned therein, and supported by a stationary guide block 74 rigidly secured to tube 12 through screws 76. Located within tube 12 and intermediate guide block 74 and the end of slide rod 56 received within handle 24 is a spring cup 60 as depicted in Figure 3. Spring cup 60 includes a cylindrical aperture in which slide rod 56 is axially received. Slide rod 56 is secured in a stationary position relative to spring cup 60 by a pin 62 or similar connecting means. Spring cup 60 can be cylindrical in shape and includes rack teeth 64. Rack teeth 64 are positioned within tube 12 slot 68, and pinion gear teeth 66 are positioned to engage rack teeth 64. Spring cup 60 includes a centrally located slot 70 open on one end and extending partially through the axial length of the spring cup 60. Mounted within slot 70 and extending outwardly around slide rod 56 to guide block 74 is a compression spring 72. Bearing against the opposing surface of guide block 74 from compression spring 72 is a second compression spring 82. Compression spring 82 is also positioned around the radial surface of slide rod 56 and supported at opposing ends by guide block 74 and washer 78 fixed in stationary position relative to slide rod 56 by a roll pin 80 or similar securing means. As power slide 16 moves along tube 12, the tube 12 will move axially with respect to slide rod 56 in direct proportion to the frictional force between sleeve 18 and 12. Movement of slide rod 56 relative to the tube 12 results in corresponding movement of spring cup 60 rela tive to tube 12. Movement of spring cup 60 relative to tube 12 causes rotational movement of pinion gear 52 through engagement of pinion gear teeth 66 with rack teeth 64. Rotation of pinion gear 52 causes corresponding rotation of dial pointer 34 coupled through gear shaft 50. Resistance of the movement of slide rod 56 with respect to tube 12 is directly proportional to the frictional force of power slide 16 on tube 12. As slide rod 56 moves in the upward direction in Figure 3 relative to tube 12, compression spring 72 is increasingly compressed, thereby requiring increasing forces to continue movement of spring cup 60 and slide rod 56 relative to tube 12. As the slide rod 56 is moved in a direction toward the bottom portion of the view in Figure 3 relative to tube 12, compression spring 82 will be compressed against stop block 74, thereby requiring increasing forces to provide further movement. Thus, movement of pointer 34 is proportional to the frictional force between sleeve 18 and tube 12. An additional pointer not shown can be rotatably mounted on gear shaft 50 or on the inside face of a cover not shown to indicate maximum force obtained in a given direction. The additional pointer can be coupled to dial pointer 34 so that it moves therewith, but only in one direction. Thus, dial pointer 34 can move the additional pointer in one direction as forces are applied to power slide 18. When the force is released, dial pointer 34 will return to zero, but the additional pointer will stay at the maximum value obtained. Exemplary exercises performed by a patient 90 with apparatus 10 are depicted in Figures 5 12. It should be noted that the magnitude of resistance required to move power slide 16 with respect to tube 12 can be decreased by providing lubrication on tube 12 through lubricating rings 15. Similarly, resistance can be increased by removing lubrication from the outer surface of tube 12, and variable resistance can be provided over a particular range of motion by selectively lubricating or removing lubrication from various portions of tube 12. It should also be noted that rings 14 provide a means for limiting the range of motion of sleeve 18 relative to tube 12. In addition, moving rings 14 inward so that motion of power slide 16 is blocked will allow isometric exercise and isometric testing of muscle strength of the user. Referring to Figure 5, apparatus 10 provides an exercise involving ankle plantar flexion. Patient 90, while maintaining a sitting position, holds apparatus 10 with one hand gripping end handle 22 and the other hand gripping slide handle 20 of power slide 16. Power slide 16 is positioned so that it is initially maintained against the top of the knee area while the patient s heel is flat against a floor surface. End handle 22 is maintained in a stationary position and patient 90 raises his or her heel from the floor surface through a desired range of motion. As the heel is raised, power slide 16 correspondingly moves toward end handle 22. Because of the frictional mounting arrangement between power slide 16 and tube 12, tube 12 will move toward end handle 22. Referring to Figure 3, this particular exercise will result in tube 12 moving toward the bottom of the Figure 3 view, with slide rod 56 maintaining a stationary position. As tube 12 moves, pinion gear 50 will rotate through engagement of rack teeth 64. Rotation of pinion gear 52 will be in a counterclockwise direction as viewed inFigure 3 and causes dial pointer 34 to rotate, thereby resulting in a visual indication of forces exerted by patient 90 through movement of dial pointer 34 relative to dial face 32. Correspondingly, compression spring 72 will be compressed increasingly through movement of guide block 74 relative to spring cup 60. Similarly, compression spring 82 will be unloaded, resulting from movement of guide block 74 further away from washer 78. Both of springs 82 and 72 will be unloaded when pointer 34 is at zero on the dial face 32. The structural relationship between spring cup 60, guide block 74 and washer 78, and the particular compression characteristics of compression springs 72 and 82 can be selected so as to provide a requisite amount of exerted forces to be exerted during exercise. In accordance with the foregoing, rotation of the patients heel from the floor surface will provide an exercise for ankle plantar flexion. Preferably, patient 90 should rotate the heel through a 400 range of motion to obtain full plantar flexion. Figure 6 depicts an exercise for shoulder therapy involving scapular abduction and outward rotation.Patient 90 maintains a standing, sitting, or prone position End handle 22 is held in one hand against the chest area. The other hand is positioned on the handle of power slide 16. Power slide 16 is initially positioned on tube 12 so that the patient s arm is fully extended. Patient 90 then exerts at forward movement of the shoulder to push power slide 16 along tube 12 away from handle 22. Referring to Figure 3, with end handle 22 held in a stationary position, movement of power slide 16 results in tube 12 m tioned so that the patient s arm extending adjacent to tube 12 is in a fully extended position. Scapula elevation is provided by the patient pulling upwardly on power slide 16, with the arm remaining extended and the shoulder correspondingly being raised. This movement substantially corresponds to the patient exhibiting a shrugging action with his shoulder. With this exercise, power slide 16 moves toward handle 22 similar to that described with respect to Figure 5. Shoulder flexion is provided by use of apparatus 10 as depicted in Figure 8. Patient 90 maintains a standing position and grips handle 22 with one hand near the hip area and with the corresponding arm crossing over the body. The patient s other hand grips handle 20.Elongated tube 12 is initially positioned in a horizontal plane, with the patient s arm gripping power slide 16 in a downwardly extending position. With handle 22 maintained stationary, patient 90 moves his or her arm in a forward direction, thereby resulting in an arc movement of power slide 16, and corresponding flexion of the shoulder. An exercise for shoulder extension is depicted inFigure 9. Patient 90 remains in a standing position and grips handle 22 and power slide 16 similar to that depicted in Figure 8. However, in contrast to the actual exercise shown in Figure 8, tube 12 is initially maintained in a horizontal plane but extends rearwardly. With patient 90 maintaining his or her arm gripping power slide 16 in a fully extended position, shoulder extension is provided by moving the arm in a rearward direction, thereby moving power slide 16 away from handle 22. Substantial shoulder extension is provided by moving the arm through an arc of up to 900 from the initial vertical position. An exercise providing shoulder horizontal abduction is depicted in Figure 10. Patient 90 maintains a standing position and grips handle 22 with one hand adjacent the abdominal area. The hand of the other arm grips the handle 20 so that the patient s arm is fully extended and power slide 16 is adjacent the hip. With tube 12 initially in a horizontal plane and extending laterally, patient 90 maintains handle 22 stationary and moves his or her arm gripping power slide 16 sideways up to the patient s shoulder level and back again. An exercise to provide lateral and medial rotation is depicted in Figure 11, with patient 90 maintaining a sitting position the patient can also maintain a standing position and end handle 22 held in one arm adjacent the abdominal area. The patients other arm is utilized to grip power slide 16 so that the other arm is bent, with the patient s elbow at his side. The patient s forearm is maintained in a horizontal plane with tube 12 initially extending laterally. Patient 90 rotates his or her forearm through a range of motion up to 900 from the initial position, while maintaining a horizontal plane with the forearm. During the initial forearm rotation, power slide 16 is moved toward handle 22.This exercise provides lateral and medial rotation of the shoulder. An exercise for shoulder flexion involving pectoralis major and deltoid muscles is shown in Figure 12, with patient 90 maintaining a prone position on his or her back with both arms bent at the elbows. A stationary board 92 is positioned rearward of the patient s head and utilized to rigidly secure end handle 22.Connection between handle 22 and board 92 can be made by any conventional connecting means. End handle 22 is secured to the board 92 at a location so that the tube 12 is maintained in substantially a horizontal plane with patient 90 flexing his or her arms at the elbows and gripping power slide 16 with both hands. With patient 90 maintaining his or her torso in a substantially stationary position, power slide 16 is moved alternately forward and away from handle 22. Movement of power slide 16 away from handle 22 will cause the arms to be extended, while movement of power slide 16 toward handle 22 will cause greater arm flexure. This exercise provides flexure of a variety of shoulderassociated muscles, including the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles. Other exercises employing apparatus 10 also fall within the scope of the invention. One configuration to exercise the deltoid, pectoralis major and abdomen muscles can be achieved by having the patient 90 maintain end handle 22 in a stationary position and held between the patient s legs adjacent the groin area.Tube 12 can extend upward at a forward angle, with patient 90 gripping handle 20 in both hands, and with both arms fully extended at substantially shoulder level. Patient 90 initially pulls downward on 16 while maintaining the arms in a fully extended position.After reaching a downward position limited by one of rings 14, the patient can then continue the exercise by pulling upward, again maintaining the arms in a fully extended configuration. Other exercises similar to those described above and employing apparatus 10 can be utilized by the patient 90 in accordance with the invention. During performance of each of these exercises, patient 90 can grip power slide 16 and handle 22 so that dial face 32 of force measuring mechanism 26 is visually perceptible by patient 90, thereby providing a relative numerical indication of forces exerted on apparatus 10 during exercise. Dial face 32 is easily visible throughout the full scope of exercises, making it easier to see the force applied to power slide 16. The means for converting relative linear motion between tube 12 and rod 56 can be a friction drive mechanism or a cable wheel mechanism. In a friction drive, a wheel with an outer rubber surface would replace pinion gear 52 and a friction surface would replace rack teeth 64. In a cable wheel mechanism, a pulley wheel would replace pinion gear and a cable would be would 3600 around the pulley. The ends of the cable would be secured to ends of spring cup 60 and rack teeth 64 would be eliminated. Although the exercise bar apparatus 10 provides a variety of exercises for different muscle skeletal groups, it is advantageous to provide even a broader spectrum of exercises for each muscle skeletal grouping. Known exercise equipment typically requires separate and distinct equipment components for different exercises associated with different muscle skeletal groupings. In accordance with the invention, however, the principal components of the exercise bar apparatus 10 are adapted for use with various bracket structures of relatively simple and inexpensive design to provide several equipment configurations, each particularly suited for exercises associated with one or more specific muscle skeletal groups. For example, a shoulder exercise apparatus 200 in accordance with the invention is shown in Figures 13 and 14 for use as a stand alone unit to exercise muscles in the shoulder regions. Features of apparatus 10 are incorporated in apparatus 200. Referring to Figures 13 and 14, apparatus 200 includes a rectangular bracket 202 having a pair of long side members 204 perpendicularly connected at their ends to a shorter pair of side members 206. A saddle assembly 208 includes a short stem 209 is receivable in any one of several saddle sockets 210 positioned at various locations around bracket 202. Saddle assembly 208 includes a U shaped saddle 211 having stem 209 mounted to an exercise bar assembly 216 having components similar to previously described apparatus 10. With like numerals referring to like elements of bar assembly 216 and apparatus 10, the bar assembly 216 includes an end handle 220 connected to the rectangular bracket 202 through a clevis assembly comprising a pair of flanges 218 so that the angle assembly 216 relative to the plane of bracket 202 is adjustable. Referring to Figures 13 and 14, bar assembly 216 includes an elongated outer tube 12. Mounted to tube 12 is a power slide 16 comprising a sleeve 18 and slide handle 20 extending radially outward from sleeve 18.Power slide 16 can be friction mounted to tube 12 in a manner similar to that described with respect to apparatus 10 and shown in Figure 4. Apparatus 200 also includes adjustable control rings 14 received on the tube 12 on opposing sides of slide 16. Intermediate each of rings 14 and slide 16 is a lubrication ring 15. Rings 14 and 15 are functionally similar to those of apparatus 10. A force measuring mechanism 26 having a housing 28 is mounted to tube 12 for visually indicating the amount of force exerted in tube 12 relative to end handle 220. End handle 220 is connected to a handle rod 24 received within tube 12. Handle rod 24 is slidably interconnected to the outer tube 12 and force measurement mechanism 26 in a manner similar to like numbered components of apparatus 10. Exercises employing shoulder exercise apparatus 200 will now be described with respect to Figures 15 17.Referring to Figure 15, for shoulder internal and external rotation, a patient 90 maintains a sitting position with an upper arm laterally extended and supported within the saddle assembly 208. Bracket 202 is maintained in a horizontal plane and saddle assembly 208 is inserted into socket 210 so that the relative location of bar assembly 216 to saddle assembly 208 is as shown in Figure 13. The elbow of the patients arm supported within saddle assembly 208 is bent at a 900 angle. Power slide 16 is positioned so that the patient s forearm is pointed upward when patient 90 grips handle 20. With bracket 202 stationary, patient 90 rotates the forearm forward from its vertical position, thereby moving power slide 16 toward end handle 220. To obtain full rotation, patient 90 can move the forearm forward and back through a 900 range of motion. An exercise for lateral and medial rotation is shown in figure 16. Patient 90 maintains a sitting position, with bracket 202 positioned in a vertical plane. The patient s upper arm is strapped into saddle assembly 208, with assembly 208 located in a socket 210 position so as to be positioned as depicted in Figure 13. The patient s upper arm is disposed downwardly and the elbow is bent at a 900 angle, with the patient s forearm extending laterally from the side. With patient 90 gripping power slide 16 as shown in Figure 16, the forearm is rotated forward, thereby moving power slide 16 toward end handle 220. To obtain full lateral and medial rotation, the forearm is rotated and forward and backward through a 900 range of motion. An exercise for elbow flexion and extension is shown in Figure 17. Patient 90 maintains a sitting position with apparatus 200 in a horizontal plane directly in front. Patient 90 secures an upper arm in saddle assembly 208 with the upper arm also in a horizontal plane. This exercise requires the saddle assembly 208 to be moved to a saddle socket 210 located in the short side member 206 opposing the side member 206 to which bar assembly 216 is mounted. The patient then grips power slide 16 with the fingers pointed either upwardly or downwardly. The upper arm is maintained stationary and power slide 16 is moved along tube 12, thereby alternately bending and straightening the patient s elbow. To provide full elbow flexion and extension, power slide 16 is moved so that the angle of the forearm ranges from 0 to 1600. Apparatus 200 can also be used for other types of exercises, depending upon the particular rehabilitative needs of the patient. Principal components of apparatus 10 can also be employed with other structures similar to shoulder exercise apparatus 200 but adapted for a variety of exercises for other muscle skeletal groups. For example, hip joint exercising apparatus 300 depicted in Figures 18 20 is suited for exercise of muscle groups surrounding the hip joint regions. Referring to figures 18 and 19, apparatus 300 includes a rectangular base 302 and a cushion 304 to provide comfort. Embedded within cushion 304 and secured to base 302 is a horizontal plate 306 attached on one side to a vertical support plate 308. Plates 306 and 308 form an end support bracket 310 utilized to pivotably secure an exercise bar assembly 312. Exercise bar assembly 312 comprises components functionally similar to exercise apparatus 10. Bar assembly 312 is connected to end support bracket 310 by a pivot connection 314 comprising a pair of flanges 316 extending inwardly from plate 308. Flanges 316 are connected to an end handle 318 comprising a pivot axle 320 extending through apertures not shown of flanges 316 to provide an adjustably pivotable connection to adjust the angle of assembly 312 relative to the plane of cushion 304. End handle 318 comprises a handle bracket 322 mounted to pivot axle 320, and a handle rod 324 rigidly secured handle bracket 322. With like numerals referring to similar components of apparatus 10, the bar assembly 312 includes an elongated outer tube 12, with handle rod 324 received within one end thereof. Bar assembly 312 also includes a force measuring mechanism 26 comprising a circular gauge housing 28 and gauge mounting bracket 30 secured to the distal and of outer tube 12. As shown in Figure 19, mounted to tube 12 is a power slide 16 comprising a sleeve 18 friction mounted on tube 12. A leg saddle assembly 326 is releasably connected to sleeve 18 by a connector stem 328. Saddle assembly 326 comprises a U shaped saddle 330 having an inner volume of sufficient size to receive the patient s leg. Mounted to the outer surface of U shaped saddle 330 is a flexible strap 332 releasably secured to a buckle 334 so as to secure the patient s leg during exercise. Leg saddle assembly 326 is similar to upper arm saddle assembly 208 of shoulder exercising apparatus 200. Also, control rings 14 and lubrication rings 15 are mounted on tube 12 on each side of power slide 16.Power slide 16 can be friction mounted to tube 12 as shown in Figure 4, with connector stem 328 substituted for handle 20. As previously described, hip joint exercising apparatus 300 includes a force measuring mechanism 26 which operates in a substantially identical manner to mechanism 26 of apparatus 10 as shown in Figures 2 and 3. However, unlike exercising apparatus 10 and shoulder exercising apparatus 200, the force measuring mechanism 26 of the hip joint exercising apparatus 300 is positioned at an opposing end of tube 12 relative to an external handle assembly. Referring again to Figures 18 and 19, mechanism 26 includes a circular gauge housing 28 rigidly mounted to tube 12 by gauge mounting bracket 30. Mounting bracket 30 includes an angled bracket 40 secured to the bottom of gauge housing 28 and to the top portion of tube 12 through brackets and screws not shown in a manner substantially identical to the connecting arrangement shown in Figure 2. Although not specifically shown on the drawings directed to the hip joint exercising apparatus 300, mounted within the gauge housing 28 and maintained stationary relative thereto can be a dial face having spaced apart marks to provide a visual indication of forces exerted by the patient during use of apparatus 300. In a manner similar to that described with respect to Figure 2, rotatably mounted immediately in front of the dial face can be a dial pointer, with the dial pointer secured to a gear shaft 50 shown in sectional view in Figure 20. The mounting of the dial pointer in front of the dial face, and the mounting of gear shaft 50 through the housing 28 and the dial face can allow the shaft 50 to rotate relative to the dial face, thereby correspondingly rotating the dial pointer to indicate magnitudes of externally exerted forces. As shown in Figure 20, rigidly mounted to the shaft 50 is a pinion gear 52 having a series of gear teeth 66. Pinion gear teeth 66 extend into into a slot 68 located in the radially surface of tube 12. Handle rod 324 extends inwardly from the end of tube 12 adjacent end handle 318. Unlike apparatus 10 hip joint exercising apparatus 300 employs a force measuring mechanism 26 which is positioned at an opposing end of tube 12 relative to the external handle assembly. Referring toFigure 20, with reference numerals corresponding to those of similar functional components shown in Figures 2 and 3, a stop and guide block not shown is inserted in the corresponding end of tube 12 adjacent handle 318 and is similar to the stop and guide block 336 shown inFigure 20 as inserted into the distal end of the tube 12, except that unlike block 336, a central aperture is included in the block adjacent end handle 318 to allow insertion of rod 324. The end of rod 324 extending into tube 12 includes a recessed area conforming to the shape of a slide rod 56. One end of slide rod 56 is rigidly secured to rod 324 by a cotter pin 58. Slide rod 56 extends through the axial length of tube 12, is centrally positioned therein, and supported by a stationary guide block 74 rigidly secured to tube 12 through screws 76. Located within the outer tube 12 and intermediate guide block 74 and the distal end of slide rod 56 is a spring cup 60. Spring cup 60 includes a cylindrical aperture in which slide rod 56 is axially received. Slide rod 56 is secured in a stationary position relative to spring cup 60 by a pin 62 or a similar connecting means. The spring cup 60 is cylindrical and includes peripheral rack teeth 64. Rack teeth 64 are positioned within tube 12 adjacent slot 68, and pinion gear teeth 66 are positioned so as to engage rack teeth 64. Spring cup 60 includes a centrally located slot 70 open at one end and extending partially through the axial length of spring cup 60. Mounted within slot 70 and extending outwardly around rod 56 to guide block 74 is a first compression spring 72. Located on the opposing surface of guide block 74 from first compression spring 72 is a second compression spring 82.Second compression spring 82 is also positioned around the radial surface of slide rod 56 and supported at opposing ends by guide block 74 and a washer 78 fixed in a stationary position relative to rod 56 by a roll pin 80 or similar securing means. During use of apparatus 300, handle rod 324 and slide rod 56 remain stationary except for pivotable movement relative to the plane of cushion 304. When power slide 16 is moved along tube 12 away from handle rod 324, tube 12 will move to the right as viewed inFigure 20. With handle rod 324, slide rod 56 and spring cup 60 remaining stationary, movement of the tube 12 causes pinion gear 52 to rotate clockwise as depicted inFigure 20. Accordingly, a visual indication of exerted forces are provided to the patient. Correspondingly, with tube 12 moving to the right, first compression spring 72 is increasingly compressed as the axial distance between guide blocks 74 and spring cup 60 is decreased. Similarly, movement of tube 12 to the left as viewed in Figure 20 causes second compression spring 82 to be increasingly compressed as guide block 74 moves toward washer 78. The resistance of movement of tube 12 with respect to slide rod 56 is proportional to the frictional force of the power slide 16 on the outer tube 12. Movement of the dial pointer is therefore be proportional to the frictional force between the power slide sleeve 18 and the outer tube 12. Exercises employing apparatus 300 will now be described with reference to Figures 21, 22 and 23. One exercise to provide hip flexion and extension is shown in Figure 21. Patient 90 maintains a prone position on cushion 304, with one leg secured within saddle assembly 326 so that saddle 330 is secured around the patient s thigh immediately above the knee. With the knee bent, patient 90 moves the knee toward and away from the chest area, thereby moving power slide 16 relative to end handle 318. An exercise for hip abduction and adduction with patient 90 in a sitting position with legs positioned transversely across cushion 304 is depicted in Figure 22. One leg is strapped into saddle 330 at the knee joint, and the leg is moved laterally in a sideways motion. For complete hip abduction and adduction, while precluding overextension or straining of the muscle groups, the leg should be moved through an arc of approximately 30. A straight leg raise is shown in Figure 23 to provide an opposing resistance to leg movement. Patient 90 maintains a prone position on cushion 304, with one leg secured to saddle 330 in the calf region with the leg fully extended. While maintaining the leg in a fully extended position, Patient 90 alternately raises and lowers the leg. One particular advantage to use of exercising apparatus 300 for leg raise exercises is the existence of resistive forces to movement, even during downward motion of the leg. Other exercises for lateral and medial rotation can be provided by having the patient maintain a sitting position on a table, with the legs extending downwardly below the table surface. Apparatus 300 is positioned so that one of the patient s legs is secured in saddle assembly 326 at the ankle region. With the patient s knee stabilized in some manner to prevent abduction and flexion of the hip, patient 90 laterally rotates the hip by laterally moving the foot associated with the secured leg. An exercising apparatus employing the principal components of exercise apparatus 10 and particularly suited for rehabilitative exercises of muscle groups in the knee joint and lower leg regions is the knee joint exercising apparatus 400 as depicted in Figures 24 and 25. Apparatus 400 includes a rectangular base 402 and a mounted cushion 404 to provide comfort to the patient during exercise. Cushion 404 includes a recessed area 406 at one end thereof. Within recessed area 406, a pair of downwardly curved tubular bars 408 extend outwardly and downwardly from cushion 404 as depicted inFigure 24. Tubular bars 408 are mounted to rectangular base 402 by any suitable connecting means, such as nut and bolt assemblies 410. A pair of leg straps 412 are mounted to the lower portion of base 402 at opposing sides thereof. A common strap 414 is secured by to base 402 within recessed area 406, and includes a buckle 416 for selectively strapping and securing either of the patient s legs by means of straps 412. At the lower terminating ends of bars 408 are a pair of forwardly extending flanges 418. A pivot connection 420 is formed by a pivot axle 422 secured to flanges 418 and connected in a clevis type connection to an end handle comprising a handle rod 424 coupled to an exercise bar mechanism 426. Exercise bar assembly 426 includes principal components of the apparatus 10, and bar assembly 312 of the previously described apparatus 300. Pivot connection 420 allows bar assembly 426 to be adjustably angled relative to curved bars 408 and cushion 404. With like numerals referring to similar elements of apparatus 10, bar assembly 426 includes an elongated outer tube 12, control rings 14, and thumb screws 17 threaded therein to secure rings 14 in a selectively adjusted position. Lubrication rings 15 are mounted on the outer tube 12 inwardly of the control rings 14. A leg saddle assembly 428 is releasably connected to tube 12 by a connector stem 430 and includes a U shaped saddle 432. Mounted tothe outer surface of saddle 432 is a flexible strap 434 which can be secured to a buckle 436 to strap the patient s leg during exercise. A power slide 16 is friction mounted on tube 12 similar to the friction mounting arrangement shown inFigure 4, with connector stem 430 substituted for handle 20 Power slide 16 therefore provides a varying kinematic resistance to movement along tube 12, with the amount of frictional resistance being dependent upon the amount of force applied to slide 16 with respect to tube 12. Referring again to Figures 24 and 25, and with like numerals referring to like elements of apparatus 10, apparatus 400 also includes a force measuring mechanism 26 mounted to the distal end of tube 12. Mechanism 26 includes a circular gauge housing 28 rigidly mounted to tube 12 by the mounting bracket 30. The view of mechanism 26 taken along section lines 2 2 of Figure 25 substantially corresponds to the view of mechanism 26 of apparatus 10 as shown in Figure 2. However, unlike apparatus 10, mechanism 26 of apparatus 400 is positioned at an opposing end of tube 12 relative to an external handle assembly comprising handle rod 424.Coupling between handle rod 424 and tube 12 substantially corresponds to the view shown in Figure 20 for similar components of apparatus 300, An exercise employing apparatus 400 is depicted inFigure 26, with patient 90 maintaining a sitting position on cushion 404. The patient1 s legs are secured within leg straps 412 and extend downwardly with the knees bent at approximately a 900 angle. Saddle assembly 428 secures one of the patient s legs at the ankle region, with one leg stabilized with leg straps 412.Patient 90 then moves the leg forward to move power slide 16 and saddle assembly 428 toward the distal end of tube 12. This exercise provides knee flexion and extension. To provide full flexion and extension patient 90 moves his or her foot upwardly from the initial position and back through an arc of approximately 1300. Another exercise apparatus employing principal components of apparatus 10 is the wrist ankle exercising apparatus 500 depicted in Figures 27 and 28. Referring specifically to Figure 27, apparatus 500 comprises a rectangularly shaped and portable frame 502 having front and rear members 504 interconnected by perpendicular cross members 506. Mounted to frame 502 is a saddle assembly 508 having a U shaped saddle 510 releasably mounted to frame 502. A flexible strap 512 is attached to the outer surface of saddle 510. A buckle 514 is provided for securing the patients arm or leg within saddle 510. For of mounting assembly 508 to frame 502,.a short stem not shown can be mounted to the outer surface of the bight portion of saddle 510 and received in socket 516 located on one of the cross members 506.Saddle assembly 508 can also be mounted to other portions of frame 502, such as the mounting arrangement shown in Figure 27 whereby saddle 510 is releasably secured to front member 504 of frame 502. Rigidly mounted to rear member 504 is a verticallydisposed plate 518 having a handle assembly 520 releasably secured thereto. Handle assembly 520 includes a handgrip 522 and a bracket 524 rotatably secured to plate 518. Referring to Figure 28, handle assembly 520 includes a rotating axle 526 extending through plate 518 and secured to a pulley wheel 528. The interconnection between plate 518, handle assembly 520 and pulley wheel 528 can be through any of several conventional structures so that rotation of handle assembly 520 relative to plate 518 results in corresponding rotation of pulley wheel 528. A goniometer 530 comprising a dial face 532 and a pointer 534 are provided on plate 518 to indicate the extent of rotation of handle assembly 520. Dial face 532 is rigidly mounted to plate 518, and pointer 534 is mounted to rotating axle 526 so as to move in correspondence therewith. Apparatus 500 also includes an exercise bar assembly 536 having principal components similar to components of apparatus 10. With like numerals referring to similar elements of apparatus 10, bar assembly 536 includes an elongated outer tube 12 having a force measuring mechanism 26 mounted to one end of tube 12. Mounted to tube 12 near the center portion thereof is a power slide 16 comprising a slidable sleeve 18. Power slide 16 is friction mounted to the tube E doy C a manner similar to that with respect to exercise bar apparatus 10 and shown in Figure 4. However, the configuration of apparatus 500 is somewhat different from the corresponding arrangement for apparatus 10 in that bar assembly 536 includes a pair of cable support brackets 538 mounted to each end of sleeve 18 and having a cable support function as subsequently described herein. Support brackets 538 are mounted to sleeve 18 so as to move in correspondence with the sleeve 18 relative to tube 12. Force measuring mechanism 26 includes a circular gauge housing 28 rigidly mounted to the outer tube 12 by means of gauge bracket mounting 30. The structural interconnection between the force measuring mechanism 26 and the outer tube 12 of apparatus 500 substantially corresponds to the interconnection of like numbered components of apparatus 10 as shown in Figure 2. Referring again to Figures 27 and 28, a stationary rod 540 is rigidly secured to an end bracket 542 mounted to an outer one of cross members 506. Stationary rod 540 extends inwardly from end bracket 542 into tube 12. The structural and functional interconnection of stationary rod 190, outer tube 12 and force measuring mechanism 26 of apparatus 500 corresponds to the interconnection of similar components of apparatus 10 as s sides of power slide 16. Each control ring 14 includes a thumb screw 17 threaded therein to secure the associated ring 14 in a selectively adjusted position.Intermediate each of control rings 14 and power slide 16 is a lubrication ring 15 again, only one being shown inFigure 28 . The structure and function of control rings 14 and lubrication rings 15 of apparatus 500 corresponds to the structure and function of control rings 14 and lubrication rings 15 of the apparatus 10. Apparatus 500 includes a pair of cable support brackets 538 connected to power slide 16 and mounted on tube 12. A cable 544 is connected at its ends to each of cable support brackets 538 and wound around pulley wheel 528 intermediate brackets 538. The power slide sleeve 18 and associated cable support brackets 538 received on tube 12 are slidable on rear frame member 504 by means of a U shaped slide member 546 rigidly secured to sleeve 18 and slidably mounted on member 504. Exercises employing apparatus 500 are initiated by rotation of handle assembly 520, which correspondingly rotates pulley wheel 528 through rotation of axle 526.As pulley wheel 528 rotates, cable 544 mounted to cable support brackets 538 causes corresponding movement of power slide 16. The frictional mounting between power slide 16 and tube 12 results in axial movement of power slide 16 along tube 12 and movement of tube 12 relative to the stationary rod 540. Movement of the elongated tube 12 relative rod 540 results in rotation of a dial pointer 34 mounted on force measuring mechanism 26 to indicate a quantitative measurement of applied forces. Although handle assembly 520 is adapted for use to perform particular exercises, other types of handle assemblies and similar structures can be utilized with apparatus 500. As depicted in Figure 29A, handle assembly 520 can be removed from plate 518 and an offset handle assembly 548 can be substituted therefor. Like handle assembly 520, handle assembly 548 includes a handgrip 550 and bracket 552. However, handle assembly 548 also includes an offset axle 554 which can be inserted through vertical plate 518 and rigidly secured to pulley wheel 528 to provide an offset between a central axis extending radially handgrip 550 and bracket 552 relative to an axis extending through offset axle 554. Other types of assemblies can also be utilized with wrist ankle exercising apparatus 500. For example, handle assemblies 520 and 548 include handgrips 522 and 550, respectively, each of which lies in a plane perpendicular to the axis of interconnection to pulley wheel 528. In contrast, handle assembly 234 shown in Figure 29B includes an axial handgrip 558 having a central axis extending parallel to the axis of interconnection with pulley wheel 528. Specifically, handle assembly 556 includes a bracket 560 offsetting axial handgrip 558 from an interconnected axle 562 which can be rigidly secured to pulley wheel 528. Apparatus 500 is also adapted to provide exercises associated with rehabilitative therapy of muscle groups involving lower leg and ankle regions. To provide such exercises, a foot pedal assembly 564 as shown in Figure 29C is utilized in place of handle assembly 528. Foot pedal assembly 564 includes a horizontally disposed base portion 566 having a rectangular configuration. A vertically disposed bracket 568 is attached to one side of base 566 and offset from the center area thereof. An axle 570 extends outwardly from bracket 568 on the opposing side of the bracket surface attached to base 566, thereby providing a means for inserting assembly 564 through plate 518 and securing assembly 564 to pulley wheel 528. To provide a means for securing a foot on the assembly 564, a flexible strap 572 can be attached to a buckle 574. Figures 30 34 depict exercises using apparatus 500 and employing different ones of handle assemblies and the foot pedal shown in Figures 27 and 29A 29C. To provide an exercise with forearm rotation, patient 90 maintains a sitting position with apparatus 500 disposed in a horizontal plane adjacent the upper torso of the patient 90 as depicted in Figure 30. With patient 90 in a sitting position, the upper arm is maintained at the patient s side, and the forearm is extended forward and strapped within saddle assembly 508, with assembly 508 mounted in the front member 504. The patient s hand grips the handgrip 522 of handle assembly 520 depicted in Figure 27. From an initial position with handgrip 522 in a vertically disposed plane, patient 90 rotates the hand through an arc of 180 to provide full forearm rotation. Rotation of handle assembly 520 causes rotation of pulley wheel 528. Through cable 544, rotation of pulley wheel 528 exerts forces on cable support brackets 538, thereby resulting in movement of sleeve 18 relative to tube 12. As previously described, movement of tube 12 relative to rod 540 results in a visual indication of forces exerted by patient 90 through movement of a dial pointer on force measuring mechanism 26. One exercise utilizing handle assembly 556 provides wrist flexion and extension as depicted in Figure 31.Patient 90 maintains a sitting position at the side of frame 502. Utilizing handle assembly 556, patient 90 maintains his or her upper arm at the side and extends the forearm forward so as to be securely strapped within saddle assembly 508. Saddle assembly 508 is moved from front member 504 and releasably secured in socket 516 of cross member 506 depicted in Figure 27. The patient s hand to grips axial handgrip 558, with fingers pointed in either an upward or downward direction. To provide full wrist flexion and extension, the patient 90 rotates the hand through an arc of 700. Another exercise to provide wrist flexion and extension is depicted in Figure 32. Patient 90 maintains the position previously described with respect to Figure 31. However, patient 90 also utilizes offset handle assembly 548 depicted in Figure 29A with handgrip 550 initially disposed in a vertical plane. Patient 90 generates a wrist flexion movement to provide exercise to the wrist muscle skeletal group. To provide full wrist flexion and extension, the wrist is flexed through a 900 arc. Apparatus 500 is also adapted to provide exercises for the ankle region. One exercise utilizing foot pedal assembly 564 provides for ankle flexion of the plantar muscle group as shown in Figure 33. Patient 90 maintains a standing, sitting or prone position, with foot pedal assembly 564 employed in place of handle assembly 520. The patient1 s foot is releasably secured on assembly 564, with the toes pointing towards the end of frame 502 opposing the bracket end adjacent patient 90. The patient s foot is then rotated upwardly, thereby providing ankle flexion of the plantar muscle group. To provide full ankle flexion, the foot is rotated through an arc of 450. An exercise for lower leg rotation in shown inFigure 34. Patient 90 maintains a prone position on his or her side with one leg extended and bent at the knee region. The leg is releasably secured in saddle assembly 508 mounted to frame 502 in the location depicted inFigure 27. The patient s foot is strapped within foot pedal assembly 564. Patient 90 then rotates the foot through an arc of up to 700 for full lower leg rotation. Apparatus 500 also provides other exercises, depending on the particular rehabilitative needs of the patient. An apparatus in accordance with the invention and utilizing principal components of the exercise apparatus 10 to exercise muscle groups in the shoulder, abdomen, hip1 leg, back and arm regions is apparatus 600 shown inFigure 35. Apparatus 600 includes a rectangular base 602 and a mounted cushion 604. Base 602 can be positioned on a table or like surface so that the user s legs can extend downwardly of base 602. Cushion 604 includes a recessed area 606 at one end thereof. Within recessed area 606, a pair of tubular bars 608 are rigidly mounted to an upper surface of base 602 by suitable connecting means, such as the nut and bolt assem blies 610. Tubular bars 608 extend outwardly and upwardly from rectangular base 602, with reinforcing plate 612 interconnecting the bars 608 to provide suitable rigidity and strength. Apparatus 600 also includes a pair of leg straps 614 mounted to the lower portion of base 602 on opposing sides thereof. A common strap 616 is secured to base 602 within recessed areas 606 and includes a buckle 618 for selectively strapping and securing either or both of the patient s legs by means of leg straps 614. At the upper end of bars 608, a crossbar 620 is pivotably coupled by means of conventional pivot connections 622 only one of which is shown in Figure 35 . Rigidly mounted to crossbar 620 is an exercise bar assembly 624 having components substantially identical to those of the exercise apparatus 10. With like numerals referring to substantially identical components of apparatus 10, bar assembly 624 includes an elongated outer tube 12.Mounted to tube 12 are a pair of adjustable control rings 14 with thumb screws 17. Lubrication rings 15 are mounted on tube 12 inwardly of rings 14. Control rings 14 and lubrication rings 15 of apparatus 600 are structurally and functionally identical to control rings 14 and lubrication rings 15 of apparatus 10 previously described herein. Positioned between rings 14 and received on tube 12 is a power slide 16 comprising a sleeve 18 secured by any suitable connecting means to crossbar 620. Friction mounting between sleeve 18 and tube 12 of apparatus 600 can be substantially structurally and functionally idertical to the friction mounting between sleeve 18 and tube 12 of apparatus 10 as shown in Figure 6, but witF slide handle 20 removed. Positioned at one end of bar assembly 624 is a handle 626 comprising a pair of handrips 628 con structed of a rubber covering or other suitable means to provide a firm gripping surface. Handgrips 628 are received on opposing ends of an elongated bar 630.Rigidly secured to the central portion of elongated bar 630 is a handle rod 632 slidably received within one end of tube 12. Rigidly secured to handle 626 with clamps 634 is a support block 636. Block 636 provides a means to exert pushing forces on bar assembly 624 to provide exercises for muscle groups in the back and abdomen regions. Apparatus 600 also includes an adjustable back supporting strap 638 having a buckle 640 for adjusting the length of strap 638. Coupled to the ends of supporting strap 638 are a pair of releasable hook locks 642. Hook locks 642 are securable to holes 644 in the ends of elongated bar 630. Strap 638, hook locks 642 and holes 644 provide back supporting means and means to exert pulling forces on tube 12 relative to sleeve 18. Supporting strap 638 can also be used around the knee region during an exercise wherein the patient is in a supine position. Mounted to tube 12 adjacent the interconnection of bar assembly 624 to handle 626 is a force measuring mechanism 26. Force measuring mechanism 26 includes a circular gauge housing 28 and is structurally and functionally identical to measuring mechanism 26 previously described with respect to apparatus 10 and shown inFigure 2. The interconnection of handle rod 156 with tube 12 and the force force measuring mechanism 26 can be substantially structurally and functionally identical to the interconnection of handle rod 24, elongated outer tube 12 and force measuring mechanism 26 of apparatus 10 as depicted in Figure 3, with handle rod 632 substituted for handle rod 24. An exercise using apparatus 600 is depicted inFigure 36. Patient 90 maintains a seated upright position on cushion 604 with the legs secured within leg straps 614 and extending downwardly with the knees bent at approximately a 900 angle. Patient 90 then secures himself or herself within apparatus 600 by strapping back supporting strap 638 around the back and securing strap 638 to handle 626 with hook locks 642. Patient 90 then exerts pushing forces against block 636 adjacent the sternum region to move tube 12 forward relative to sleeve 18. Patient 90 can also exert pulling forces on the outer tube 12 by pushing backwards against strap 638, thereby moving tube 12 rearward relative to sleeve 18. Thus, tube 12 is reciprocally moved through sleeve 18 by rotational movement of the upper body with respect to the seat. Another exercise using apparatus 600 is depicted inFigure 37. Patient 90 maintains a supine position on the cushion 604, with upper leg regions bent vertically upward at a 900 angle and knees bent forwardly at a 900 angle. The patient s legs are secured within the supporting strap 638 adjacent the knee region. The under portion the legs adjacent the upper knee region are then positioned against the support blocks 636 or the handle 626. Patient 90 can exert pushing forces to move tube 12 forward relative to sleeve 18. Patient 90 can also exert pulling forces on tube 12 by pulling backwards against strap 638, thereby moving tube 12 rearward relative to sleeve 18. Thus, tube 12 is reciprocally moved through sleeve 18 by rotational movement of the user s upper leg region with respect to his or her seat. The afore described exercise will involve the various muscle groups of the back and abdomen, and can also strengthen muscles in the upper leg. In addition, however, although the exercise position shown in Figure 36 for exercising back and abdomen muscle groups can be used by many patients, it can be important to someone with a spinal or similar injury to avoid any weight loading on the spine. Such weight loading would occur if patient 90 were in the seated upright position as shown in Figure 36. However, with patient 90 in the supine position, muscle groups in the back and abdomen can be exercised without weight loading on the spine. Another exercise using apparatus 600 is depicted inFigure 38. Patient 90 maintains a seated upright position on cushion 604 with the legs secured within straps 614 and extending downwardly with knees bent at approximately a 900 angle. Patient 90 maintains a position with his or her arms extended outwardly in a straight configuration. Patient 90 can exert downward forces through handle 626 to move tube 12 downward relative to sleeve 18. Patient 90 can also exert upward forces on tube 12 by pulling upwardly on handle 626, thereby moving tube 12 upward relative to sleeve 18. Accordingly, tube 12 is reciprocally moved through sleeve 18 by rotational movement of the patient s arms relative to the shoulder region. This type of exercise will strengthen various muscle skeletal groups in the arm, shoulder and abdomen regions. Still another exercise employing apparatus 600 is shown in Figure 39. Patient 90 maintains a seated upright position on cushion 604, with the legs secured within straps 614 and extending downwardly with the knees bent at approximately a 900 angle. Patient 90 will grip handgrips 628 with the arms bent at the elbow regions at a desired angle. Patient 90 can grip handle 626 with the palms of the hands in either a forward or rearward direction. In Figure 39, the palms are facing rearward. Patient 90 then exerts pushing or pulling forces on tube 12 by exerting forces through handle 626. With apparatus 600 used in this manner, muscle groups such as the biceps and triceps of the arm region can be strengthened. The afore described types of movement and other exercising movements can provide a variety of different types of exercises for the patient s shoulder, arm, back, abdomen and leg regions. The pivotable coupling of crossbar 620 to bars 608 provides a means for adjustment of the position and angle of exercise bar assembly 624 relative to cushion 604 to accommodate patients of different sizes. The principles of the invention are not limited to the specific exercising apparatus 10, 200, 300, 400, 500 and 600 as described herein. For example, positioning of the force measuring mechanism 26 can be moved to various locations relative to tube 12. Furthermore, structural configurations other than the particular configurations of the force measuring mechanism 26 described herein can be employed to provide a force measuring means. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that modifications and other variations of the above described illustrative embodiment of the invention may be effected without departing from the spirit and scope of the novel concepts of the invention.