# Arch flexure for winchester sliders.

## Abstract
Disclosed are forms of flexure mounting for magnetic recording head sliders particularly as modified to reduce roll bias and increase pitch stiffness and ease of manufac ture.

## Claims
What is claimed is 1. In a flexure mount for carrying a magnetic recording transducer body adapted to be brought into operative relation with a passing record surface, this mount comprising an elongate flexure strip having a distal tip, a tongue section cantilevered back from this tip, and a pair of like beam segments flanking the tongue section to join said tip to the proximate end of the mount, the improvement wherein said beam segments are each necked down identically intermediate their length, to exhibit a prescribed minimum width along the roll axis of the mount, whereby to reduce roll bias a prescribed amount. 2. The combination as recited in claim 1 wherein the segments are each necked down, and reduced in width, symmetrically along their length. 3. The combination as recited in claim 1 where the transducer exhibits a number of slider rails and wherein said necking down is designed and adapted to so reduce roll bias as to keep the operative rail record surface gaps within 5 15 of one another. 4. The combination as recited in claim 3 where the record surface is that of a disk record. 5. The combination as recited in claim 4 where the transducer body is a Winchester type slider . 6. The combination as recited in claim 3 where the gap between beam segments and the tongue section is enlarged. 7. A method of fabricating a flexure mount for carrying a magnetic recording transducer body adapted to be brought into operative relation with a passing record surface, this mount comprising an elongate flexure strip having a distal tip, a tongue section cantilevered back from this tip, and a pair of like beam segments flanking the tongue section to join said tip to the proximate end of the mount, the improvement wherein said beam segments are each necked down identically intermediate their length, to exhibit a prescribed minimum width along the roll axis of the mount, whereby to reduce roll bias a prescribed amount. 8. The method of claim 7 where the segments are each necked down, and reduced in width, symmetrically along their length and mount is stamped out. 9. The method of claim 8 where the transducer exhibits a number of slider rails and wherein said necking down is designed and adapted to so reduce roll bias as to keep the operative rail record surface gaps within 5 15 of one another. 10. The method of claim 9 where the record surface is that of a disk record and where the transducer body is a Winchester type slider . 11. The method of claim 9 where the gap between beam segments and the tongue section is enlarged. 12. The product of the method in claim 7. 13. The product of the method in claim 9. 14. The product of the method in claim 11. 15. An arched flexure mount adapted for carrying a magnetic recording transducer body adapted to be brought into operative relation with a passing record surface, this mount comprising an elongate flexure strip having a distal tip, a tongue section cantilevered back from this tip, and a pair of like beam segments flanking the tongue section to join said tip to the proximate end of the mount, the improvement wherein the beam segments are reduced in width medially, and symmetrically, in like fashion. 16. The combination as recited in claim 15 wherein said beam segments are each necked down identically intermediate their length, to exhibit a prescribed minimum width along the roll axis of the mount, whereby to reduce roll bias a prescribed amount. 17. The combination as recited in claim 16 wherein the transducer exhibits a number of slider rails and wherein said necking down is designed and adapted to so reduce roll bias as to keep the operative rail record surface gaps within 5 15 of one another. 18. A method of adapting a flexure mount for carrying a magnetic recording transducer body adapted to be brought into operative relation with a passing record surface, this mount comprising an elongate flexure strip having a distal tip, a tongue section cantilevered back from this tip, and a pair of like beam segments flanking the tongue section to join said tip to the proximate end of the mount, the improvement wherein the beam segments are reduced in width medially, and symmetrically, in like fashion. 19. The method of claim 18 where the segments are each necked down, and reduced in width, symmetrically along their length and mount is stamped out. 20. The method of claim 19 where the transducer exhibits a number of slider rails and wherein said necking down is designed and adapted to so reduce roll bias as to keep the operative rail record surface gaps within 5 15 of one another. 21. The method of claim 20 where the record surface is that of a disk record and where the transducer body is a Winchester type slider . 22. The method of claim 19 where the gap between beam segments and the tongue section is enlarged.

## Description
ARCH FLEXURE FOR WINCHESTER SLIDERS This invention relates to an arrangement for mounting magnetic recording transducers and particularly for improved flexure mounts for Winchester sliders adapted for magnetic disk recording. Background, Problems FIG. 1 shows, in plan view, a somewhat conventional flexure mounting I for mounting an air bearing sliderABS of a type well known in the art of high speed, high density magnetic recording on disk media. Workers in the art recognize that random access, magnetic disk storage systems typically use read write transducers mounted on an air bearing slider such as slider ABS in partial outline in FIG. 1, and understood as adapted to be flown over a disk recording surface . Flexure mount I is classically intended to accommodate optimum slider orientation during acceleration deceleration of the adjacent disk surface, and during negotiation of disk surface irregularities asperities or microscopic variances from perfect surface flatness and smoothness . Such a flexure I will be understood as attached to a conventional load beam LB not shown, but well known in the art, e.g., being spot welded thereto . The load beam, in turn, is fastened to an actuator arm which supports an entire head arm assembly HAA above a subject disk surface. Flexure I comprises a relatively flat, thin flexure leaf 10 projected out from supporting load beam LB to terminate at a free distal tip portion AA.A central, separately flexing tongue portion T is cantilevered back from tip AA, the flexure 10 being cut out to accommodate tongue T, as known in the art.Tongue T includes a dimple D for attachment of sliderABS as known in the art. A pair of like, relatively rectangular flexure beam segments 11, 11 surround tongue T, connecting tip AA to the flexure body 10. This somewhat conventional flexure design I might be characterized as rectangular , since it presents parallel rectangular beam segments 11, 11 supporting flexure tip AA. Tongue T will be understood as offset from the plane of the flexure body, being 0 tilted e.g., about 2 above the parallel beam segments 11, 11 . Tongue T has a relatively complex shape, being somewhat rectangular at its supported, end adjacent tip AA, and being widened somewhat about dimple D in a pair of like symmetrical rectangular protrusions Dp, Dp, and terminating at a tongue tip Tp, which is somewhat pointed. As workers know, the load beam force, the slider design and the disk velocity will, together, determine flying height i.e., head to disk separation, a very important parameter value, as workers well know . Workers will recognize that a good flexure will serve to attach the slider to the head arm assembly, and to maintain relatively constant slider orientation relative to the passing disk surface passing in direction a see arrow despite disk acceleration deceleration and passing disk asperities and, importantly, it should help resist excessive pitch or roll of its slider. Here, a pitch axis P P is indicated in FIG. 1 extending along load beam direction, elongate tongue axis , through the centerpoint Dc of the slider dimple D the loading point .Also, a roll axis R R will be recognized as passing through this same center point Dc but transverse toP P, and in the direction a of slider flight, as known in the art. Workers will recognize that some problems and disadvantages inhere in a rectangular flexure design, such as in FIG. 1. For instance, the tongue T is somewhat problematic to manufacture, there being insufficient material about dimple D to accommodate the dimpling without distorting tongue thickness or T flatness. Also, this design leaves something to be desired in respect of bonding to slider ABS, since it presents only a small point contact D c for joining slider to flexure T between the dimplecenter Dc and the back face of slider ABS . Bonding is further complicated by the relatively narrow clearance about tongue T and the difficulty of disposing of surplus adhesive during slider bonding.This adhesive is quite apt to bridge the relatively narrow clearance and bar, or interfere with, tongue flex. Also, air pockets are apt to develop in the adhesive mass. Further, this tiny clearance about tongue T prevents one from using convenient, inexpensive die stamping methods to form the part. Instead, one typically must turn to a costly chemical etch method apt to cause stress corrosion and metal fatigue, especially where an etchant residue is left . And there are performance shortcomings too.This rectangular flexure construction and its rectangular flexure beams 11, 11 seem in many instances to provide inadequate pitch stiffness resistance to pitch , especially during extreme stop start operations high acceleration or deceleration of the associated disk surface . Further, the moment through the load point center Dc of dimple D along roll axis R R is apt to be all too non uniformly distributed, leading to an imbalance that allows one slider rail to come closer to the passing disk surface than the other non uniform roll compliance . Such a roll bias is characteristic of virtually all conventional flexures and presents serious disadvantages. For instance, workers recognize how it typically makes one slider rail fly at a seriouslydifferent height from the other e.g., variations of 25 40 are not uncommon something quite undesirable . The invention provides a modified arched flexure design e.g., as in FIG. 2 which is seen to provide a solution to problems like the foregoing and a general improvement in manufacturability, performance, and reliability over rectangular flexures.More particularly, my arched flexure will be seen to be cheaper and easier to fabricate, to exhibit greater pitch stiffness, and to better balance the slider in the roll direction more uniform roll compliance , little or no roll bias , r with less than 5 10 slider height differential commonly seen . Workers will recognize this as important. It can accommodate faster access times and increased track density requiring wider servo band widths things much desired in present day magnetic recording. Workers will recognize that the vibrational modes of a slider flexure and like suspension components should be as stable as possible throughout all normal operations of the disk drive e.g., be constructed to exhibit resonance frequencies that are higher than any encountered in normal operation .Now as vibration frequency increases, e.g., from nearby motors one must typically increase component stiffness. Arch Flexures made according to this invention are more stable and have increased pitch stiffness . Brief Description of the Drawings These and other features and advantages of the present invention will be appreciated by workers as they become better understood by reference to the following detailed description of the present preferred embodiments which should be considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, wherein like reference symbols denote like elements FIG. 1 shows in plan schematic view a relatively conventional flexure mounting for a magnetic recording slider FIG. 2 is a like view of such a flexure modified according to the invention FIG. 3 is a like view greatly simplified of another, less desirable version and FIG. 4 is a like view of a third, more desirable version. Preferred Embodiment FIG. 2 One embodiment of an arched flexure design according to the invention is shown in FIG. 2 as arch flexure II, wherein the size and shape of the flexure tongue TT and those of the flanking flexure beams 21, 21 are modified flexure II being the same as flexure I in FIG. 1, except where otherwise specified . This, and other means discussed herein, will generally be understood as constructed and operating as presently known in the art, except where otherwise specified. And, except as otherwise specified, all materials, methods and devices and apparatus herein will be understood as implemented by known expedients according to present good practice. Thus, flexure support II is adapted to suspend a slider ABS as above , and comprises a flexure leaf pref. stainless steel body 20 with a tongue TT cut out adjacent the distal tip 2 AA of body 20 and with sidebeam segments 21, 21 flanking tongue TT and joining tip 2 AA to the body 20. Here, tongue TT will be seen as presenting a considerably increased dimpling area surrounding dimple DD the dimple is otherwise the same , presenting a somewhat uniform ring of material ring of radius surrounding dimple DD . Otherwise, the tongue width is about the same cf. width j adjacent flexure tip 2 AA about the same as in FIG. 1 embodiment , except about dimple DD, where width is smoothly and symmetrically increased to a maximum along roll axis R R. Tongue TT terminates in a tip portion TTP with a blunt nose end and width J. The v shaped cutout opposite tip TTP can be replaced by a square end , etc. This new bulbous tongue shape will be seen as increasing the area around dimple DD.As a result, dimpling is simpler and better, with considerably less distortion of the tongue flatness more material to draw from in the dimpling process . Further, it will be seen as providing enhanced pitch stiffness and pitch torsion and increased bonding area, thus improving bonding of the slider to the flexure. Also, the use of arched beam segments 21, 21 flanking this bulbous tongue, gives advantageous cooperative features e.g., readily allows bigger, uniform gap about tongue and this facilitates diestamping, less bonding difficulty, etc. see below . Now, flanking this enlarged width bulbous tongue, the surrounding flexure beams 21, 21 are arched somewhat along their length. This helps to maintain somewhat the same beam width, with a reasonably large separation gap from tongue TT kept, as workers will understand. As will be noted in FIG. 2, this results in considerably improved larger, more uniform tongue beam clearance. The increased tongue area and greater tongue clearance will also be seen to enhance and facilitate more reliable, effective bonding, since more adhesive can safely be applied between the slider and the tonguedimple without danger of bridging , etc. The resultant increased tongue clearance reduces the risk of excess adhesive protruding into the gap and interfering with slider compliance. In addition, to provide for release of air and to accommodate surplus adhesive, relief holes h, h are provided through tongue TT, preferably on both sides of dimple DD, as will be seen in FIG. 2. The location, number, size and shape of these holes is a matter of choice. As a further improvement feature, the arched flexure beams 21, 21 are also necked down narrowed in width medially to exhibit a prescribed reduced width b along roll axis R R b a . This will be found surprisingly effective in accommodating more balanced roll e.g., more balanced roll moment along an axis through the load point at center of dimple DD , with little or no bias roll or predisposition to rotate one way or the other about axis R R . Also, the span H of arch flexure II that is the distance between beam center lines is here increased above that of a more conventional rectangular flexure e.g., I in FIG. 1 . This is believed to increase resistance to pitch e.g., a span H about twice the span H of rectangular flexure I will be found to increase pitch stiffness on the order of 25 for flexure geometry which is otherwise typical. Results The improved manufacturability of the arched flexure of embodiment II has already been mentioned e.g., susceptibility for die stamping, more tongue material for forming the dimple, more bonding area, more clearance for accommodating surplus bonding material and preventing rubbing against flexure beam segment also relief holes for release of air and surplus adhesive .More particularly, this embodiment will be seen as providing surprisingly improved pitch stiffness e.g., during sudden starting and stopping of recording disk surface , and more adequate support during stopstart operations, despite the apparently simple , minor changes in shape and dimensions. Workers will be especially surprised to see that this allows die stamping of the part, avoiding the usual, troublesome chemical etching see above . This arch flexure design not only increases resistance to pitch, but does so without necessarily increasing roll stiffness . It appears that the moment for roll compliance is more uniformly distributed more uniform roll compliance with no unbalancing, asymmetric roll forces to throw one slider rail closer to the disk than the other e.g., vs rectangular flexure I of FIG. 1 . Such a roll bias is characteristic of virtually all conventional flexures and presents serious disadvantages. For instance, workers recognize how it typically makes one slider rail fly at a seriouslydifferent height from the other e.g., variations of 25 50 are not uncommon something quite undesirable . Tests were conducted to investigate the dynamic properties of head arm assemblies using such an arched flexure , and to compare these with a rectangular flexure as in FIG. 1 e.g., amplitude of detected acoustic energy plotted vs disk rpm . It appeared that a rectangular flexure like I of FIG. 1 exhibited a very sharp, massive increase in kinetic energy during disk spin up i.e., a first spike during slider takeoff frictional drag and a second during a later transitional instability associated with pitch instability . By comparison, the arched flexure is much more stable, exhibits minimal energy spikes , and insignificant instability or flutter. Evidently, this is due to improved pitch stiffness and little or no roll bias . Summary Workers may wonder what results when one simply widens the entire flexure leaf e.g., twice as wide overall as leaf 10 in FIG. I . Such is indicated, very schematically, for flexure III inFIG. 3 with a tongue a bit narrower, proportionately.Here, pitch stiffness will be increased though some compliance must be maintained, according to the slider used , but significant, troublesome roll bias should be expected. Thus, flexure III is further modified by necking down the beam segments enlarged cut out flanking tongue as shown in FIG. 4 for flexure IV.Here, like beam segments bb s, bb s are identically necked down in width symmetrically, medially of their length to a minimum width along the roll axis R R of the flexure IV. This will be understood as performed to effect a prescribed reduction e.g., elimination of roll bias . Workers will recognize that various kinds of slider can be carried by such an arch flexure e.g., Winchester , Micro Winchester , Self Loading , etc. It will be understood that the preferred embodiments described herein are only exemplary, and that the invention is capable of many modifications and variations in construction, arrangement and use without departing from the spirit of the invention. Further modifications of the invention are also possible. For example, the means and methods disclosed herein are also applicable to other recording and or head mounting systems and the like. The present teaching is applicable e.g., appropriately modified for providing the positioning required in other forms of recording and or reproducing systems, such as those in which data is recorded and reproduced optically. The above examples of possible variations of the present invention are merely illustrative.Accordingly, the present invention is to be considered as including all possible modifications and variations coming within the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.