# Process for making 2 oxindole 1 carboxamides and intermediates therefor.

## Abstract
Covers oxindole intermediates, and their preparation, of the formula

## Claims
CLAIMS for the ontracting States BE, CH, DE, FR, B, IT, LI, LU, NL, SE 1. A compound of the formulaEMI53.1 wherein X is hydrogen, fluoro, chloro, bromo, alkyl having 1 to 4 carbons, cycloalkyl having 3 to 7 carbons, alkoxy having 1 to 4 carbons, alkylthio having 1 to 4 carbons, trifluoromethyl, alkylsulfinyl having 1 to 4 carbons, alkylsulfonyl having 1 to 4 carbons, nitro, phenyl, alkanoyl having 2 to 4 carbons, benzoyl, thenoyl, alkanamido having 2 to 4 carbons, benzamido or N,Ndialkylsulfamoyl having 1 to 3 carbons in each of said alkyl and Y is hydrogen, fluoro, chloro, bromo, alkyl having 1 to 4 carbons, cycloalkyl having 3 to 7 carbons, alkoxy having 1 to 4 carbons, alkylthio having 1 to 4 carbons or trifluoromethyl or X and Y when taken together are a 4,5 , 5,6 or 6,7 methylenedioxy group or a 4,5 , 5,6 or 6,7 ethylenedioxy group or X and Y when taken together and when attached to adjacent carbon atoms, form a divalent radical Z, wherein Z is selected from EMI54.1 wherein W is oxygen or sulfur and R is hydrogen or CO R1, wherein R1 is alkyl having 1 to 6 carbons, cycloalkyl having 3 to 7 carbons, cycloalkenyl having from 4 to 7 carbons, phenyl, substituted phenyl, phenylalkyl having 1 to 3 carbons in said alkyl, substituted phenyl alkyl having 1 to 3 carbons in said alkyl, phenoxyalkyl having 1 to 3 carbons in said alkyl, substituted phenoxy alkyl having 1 to 3 carbons in said alkyl, thiophenoxy alkyl having from 1 to 3 carbons in said alkyl, naphthyl, bicyclo 2.2.1 heptan 2 yl, bicyclo 2.2.i hept 5 en 2 yi or CHZ , Q R wherein the substituent on said substituted phenyl, said substituted phenyl alkyl and said substituted phenoxy alkyl is fluoro, chloro, bromo, alkyl having 1 to 4 carbons, alkoxy having 1 to 4 carbons or trifluoromethyl n is zero, 1 or 2 Q is a divalent radical derived from a compound selected from furan, thiophene, pyrrole, pyrazole, imidazole, thiazole, isothiazole, oxazole, isoxazole, 1,2,3 thiadiazole, 1,3 ,4 thiadiazole, 1,2,5 thiadiazole, tetrahydrofuran, tetrahydrothiophene, tetrahydropyran, tetrahydrothiopyran, pyridine, pyrimidine, pyrazine, benzo b furan or benzo b thiophene and RO is hydrogen or alkyl having 1 to 3 carbons. 2. A compound according to claim 1, characterized in that X is hydrogen, 5 chloro, 5 fluoro or 5 trifluoromethyl Y is hydrogen, 6 chloro, 6 fluoro or 6trifluoromethyl and R is hydrogen. 3. A compound according to claim 2, characterized in that X is chloro and Y is hydrogen. 4. A compound according to claim 1, characterized in that X is hydrogen, 5 chloro, 5 fluoro or 5 trifluoromethyl Y is hydrogen, 6chloro, 6 fluoro or 6trifluoromethyl and R is CO R1, wherein R1 is benzyl, 2 furyl, 2 thienyl, 2 furyl methyl or 2thienyl methyl. 5. A compound according to claim 4, characterized in that X is 5chloro Y is hydrogen and R1 is 2thienyl. 6. A process for making a compound of the formulaEMI55.1 wherein X is hydrogen, fluoro, chloro, bromo, alkyl having 1 to 4 carbons, cycloalkyl having 3 to 7 carbons, alkoxy having 1 to 4 carbons, alkylthio having 1 to 4 carbons, trifluoromethyl, alkylsulfinyl having 1 to 4 carbons, alkylsulfonyl having 1 to 4 carbons, nitro, phenyl, alkanoyl having 2 to 4 carbons, benzoyl, thenoyl, alkanamido having 2 to 4 carbons, benzamido orN,N dialkylsulfamoyl having 1 to 3 carbons in each of said alkyls and Y is hydrogen, fluoro, chloro, bromo, alkyl having 1 to 4 carbons, cycloalkyl having 3 to 7 carbons, alkoxy having 1 to 4 carbons, alkylthio having 1 to 4 carbons or trifluoromethyl or X and Y when taken together are a 4,5 , 5,6 or 6,7 methylenedioxy group or a 4,5 , 5,6 or 6,7 ethylenedioxy group or X and Y when taken together and when attached to adjacent carbon atoms, form a divalent radical Z, wherein Z is selected fromEMI56.1 wherein w is oxygen or sulfur and R is hydrogen or CO R1, wherein R1 is alkyl having 1 to 6 carbons, cycloalkyl having 3 to 7 carbons, cycloalkenyl having 4 to 7 carbons, phenyl, substituted phenyl, phenylalkyl having 1 to 3 carbons in said alkyl, substituted phenyl alkyl having 1 to 3 carbons in said alkyl, phenoxyalkyl having 1 to 3 carbons in said alkyl, substituted phenoxy alkyl having 1 to 3 carbons in said alkyl, thiophenoxy alkyl having 1 to 3 carbons in said alkyl, naphthyl, bicyclo 2.2.1 heptan 2 yl, bicyclo 2.2.1 hept 5 en 2 yl or CH2 n Q R wherein the substituent on said substituted phenyl, said substituted phenyl alkyl and said substituted phenoxy alkyl is fluoro, chloro, bromo, alkyl having 1 to 4 carbons, alkoxy having 1 to 4 carbons or trifluoromethyl n is zero, 1 or 2 Q is a divalent radical derived from a compound selected from furan, thiophene, pyrrole, pyrazole, imidazole, thiazole, isothiazole, oxazole, isoxazole, 1,2,3 thiadiazole, 1,3,4 thiadiazole, 1,2,5 thiadiazole, tetrahydrofuran, tetrahydrothiophene, tetrahydropyran, tetrahydrothiopyran, pyridine, pyrimidine, pyrazine, benzo b furan or benzo b thiophene and R is hydrogen or alkyl having 1 to 3 carbons which comprises hydrolyzing a compound of the formulaEMI57.1 7. A process according to claim 6, characterized in that the hydrolysis is carried out substantially with water alone. 8. A process according to claim 6, characterized in that the hydrolysis is carried out using an aqueous inorganic or organic acid. 9. A process according to any of claims 6 to 8, characterized in that X is hydrogen, 5 chloro, 5 fluoro or 5 trifluoromethyl Y is hydrogen, 6 chloro, 6 fluoro or 6 trifluoromethyl and R is CO RÚ, wherein RÚ is benzyl, 2 furyl, 2 thienyl, 2 furyl methyl or 2thienyl methyl. 10. A process according to claim 9, characterized in that X is 5chloro, Y is hydrogen and R1 is 2thienyl. 11. A process for preparing a compound of the formula II as claimed in claim 1, which comprises reacting a compound of the formula EMI58.1 where X, Y and R are as defined in claim 1, with chlorosulfonyl isocyanate. CLAIMS for the Contracting State AT 1. A process for making a compound of the formulaEMI59.1 where in X is hydrogen, fluoro, chloro, bromo, alkyl having 1 to 4 carbons, cycloalkyl having 3 to 7 carbons, alkoxy having 1 to 4 carbons, alkylthio having 1 to 4 carbons, trifluoromethyl, alkylsulfinyl having 1 to 4 carbons, alkylsulfonyl having 1 to 4 carbons, nitro, phenyl, alkanoyl having 2 to 4 carbons, benzoyl, thenoyl, alkanamido having 2 to 4 carbons, benzamido or N,N dialkylsuifamoyl having 1 to 3 carbons in each of said alkyl and Y is hydrogen, fluoro, chloro, bromo, alkyl having 1 to 4 carbons, cycloalkyl having 3 to 7 carbons, alkoxy having 1 to 4 carbons, alkylthio having 1 to 4 carbons or trifluoromethyl or X and Y when taken together are a 4,5 , 5,6 or 6,7 methylenedioxy group or a 4,5 , 5,6 or 6,7 ethylenedioxy group or X and Y when taken together and when attached to adjacent carbon atoms, form a divalent radical Z, wherein Z is selected from EMI60.1 wherein W is oxygen or sulfur and R is hydrogen or CO R1, wherein R1 is alkyl having 1 to 6 carbons, cycloalkyl having 3 to 7 carbons, cycloalkenyl having 4 to 7 carbons, phenyl, substituted phenyl, phenylalkyl having 1 to 3 carbons in said alkyl, substituted phenyl alkyl having 1 to 3 carbons in said alkyl, phenoxyalkyl having 1 to 3 carbons in said alkyl, substituted phenoxy alkyl having 1 to 3 carbons in said alkyl, thiophenoxy alkyl having 1 to 3 carbons in said alkyl, naphthyl, bicyclo 2.2.l heptan 2 yl, bicycio 2.2.li hept 5 en 2 yl or CH2 n Q R B wherein the substituent on said substituted phenyl, said substituted phenyl aSkyl and said substituted phenoxy alkyl is fluoro, chloro, bromo, alkyl having 1 to 4 carbons, alkoxy having 1 to 4 carbons or trifluoromethyl n is zero, 1 or 2 Q is a divalent radical derived from a compound selected from furan, thiophene, pyrrole, pyrazole, imidazole, thiazole, isothiazole, oxazole, isoxazole, 1,2,3 thiadiazole, 1,3,4 thiadiazole, 1,2,5 thiadiazole, tetrahydrofuran, tetrahydrothiophene, tetrahydropyran, tetrahydrothiopyran, pyridine, pyrimidine, pyrazine, benzo b furan or benzo b thiophene and RO is hydrogen or alkyl having 1 to 3 carbons which comprises hydrolyzing a compound of the formulaEMI61.1 2. A process according to claim 1, wherein X and Y are each hydrogen, fluoro, chloro, bromo, alkyl having 1 to 4 carbons, alkoxy having 1 to 4 carbons, alkylthio having 1 to 4 carbons, nitro or trifluoromethyl or X and Y when taken together are a 4,5 , 5,6 or 6,7 methylenedioxy group and R is hydrogen or CO R1 wherein R1 is alkyl having 1 to 6 carbons, cycloalkyl having 3 to 7 carbons, phenyl, substituted phenyl, phenylalkyl having 1 to 3 carbons in said alkyl, phenoxyalkyl having 1 to 3 carbons in said alkyl, substituted phenoxy a lkyl having 1 to 3 carbons in said alkyl, furyl, thienyl, alkylfuryl having 1 to 3 carbons in said alkyl, alkythienyl having 1 to 3 carbons in said alkyl, furylalkyl having 1 to 3 carbons in said alkyl, thienylalkyl having 1 to 3 carbons in said alkyl or bicyclo 2.2.l heptan 2 yl wherein the substituent on said substituted phenyl group and said substituted phenoxy group is selected from the group consisting of fluoro, chloro, bromo, alkyl having 1 to 4 carbons and alkoxy having 1 to 4 carbons. 3. A process according to either claim 1 or claim 2, characterized in that the hydrolysis is carried out substantially with water alone. 4. A process according to either claim 1 or claim 2, characterized in that the hydrolysis is carried out using an aqueous inorganic or organic acid. 5. A process according to claim 4, characterized in that said inorganic or organic acid is selected from hydrochloric, sulfuric, phosphoric acetic, formic, citric and benzoic acids. 6. A process according to either claim 4 or claim 5, characterized in that said inorganic or organic acid is used at a concentration in the range from 1 molar to 6 molar. 7. A process according to any of claims 1 to 6, characterized in that X is hydrogen, 5 chloro, 5 fluoro or 5 trifluoromethyl Y is hydrogen, 6 chloro, 6 fluoro or 6 trifluoromethyl and R is hydrogen. 8. A process according to claim 7, characterized in that X is 5chloro and Y is hydrogen. 9. A process according to any of claims 1 to 6 characterized in that X is hydrogen, 5 chloro, 5 fluoro or S trifluoromethyl Y is hydrogen, 6chloro, 6 fluoro or 6 trifluoromethyl and R is CO R1, wherein R1 is benzyl, 2 furyl, 2 thienyl, 2 furyl methyl or 2thienyl methyl. 10. A process according to claim 9, characterized in that X is 5chloro Y is hydrogen and R1 is 2thienyl 11. A process for preparing a compound of the formula II as defined in claim 1, characterised by reacting a compound of the formula EMI63.1 where X, Y and R are as defined in claim 1, with chlorosulfonyl isocyanate. 12. A process for preparing a pharmaceutical composition, characterised by preparing a compound of the formula III as defined in claim 1 in whichR is CORÚ where RÚ is as defined in claim 1 by a process as claimed in claim 1, followed by mixing the thus produced product with a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent or carrier.

## Description
PROCESS FOR MAKING 2 OXINCOLE 1 CARBOXAMIDES AND INTERMEDIATES THEREFOR This invention relates to a process for making 2 oxindole l carboxamides which comprises reacting a 2 oxindole with chlorosulfonyl isocyanate to produce a novel N chlorosulfonyl 2 oXindole l carboxamide which is then hydrolyzed to a 2 oxindole l carboxamide. Said 2 oxindole 1 carboxamides are useful as intermediates for analgesic and antiinflammatory agents. The reactions of chlorosulfonyl isocyanate with various nucleophiles, including amines to produce Nchlorosulfonylamido ClSO2NHCO derivatives thereof, and subsequent hydrolysis of said derivatives to afford amides is described by Graf., Angew. Chem.Internat Edit, 7, 175 1968 Rasmussen et al.,Chem. Rev. 389 390 1976 and Szabo, Aldrichimica Acta 10, 23 1977 . The preparation of 2 oxindole l carboxamides by cyclization of the appropriate 2 ureidophenyl acetic acid by means of, for example, trifluoroacetic anhydride trifluoroacetic acetic acid is described in concurrently filed European patent application no. 85 our ref. PC 6795 A, entitled 3 Substituted 2 Oxindole1 carboxamides as Analgesic and Anti inflammatory Agents. The process of this invention represents an improved process for making 2 oxinEole l carboxamides of formula III in good yield and purity from starting materials which are readily available. This invention provides a convenient process for making 2 oxindole l carboxamides by reaction of a 2oxindole with chlorosulfonyl isocyanate to produce a novel intermediate N chlorosul fonyl 2 oxindol e l carboxamide which is then hydrolyzed to a 2 oxindole1 carboxamide. The process, the intermediate and the final products are presented below EMI2.1 wherein R is hydrogen or CO R1, wherein R1 is as defined below, and X is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, fluoro, chloro, bromo, alkyl having 1 to 4 carbons, cycloalkyl having 3 to 7 carbons, alkoxy having 1 to 4 carbons, alkylthio having 1 to 4 carbons, trifluoromethyl, alkylsulfinyl having 1 to 4 carbons, alkyl szlfcnyl having 1 to 4 carbons, nitro, phenyl, alkanoyl having 2 to 4 carbons, benzoyi, thenoyl, alkanamido having 2 to 4 carbons, benzamido and N,N dialkylsulfamoyl having 1 to 3 carbons in each of said alkyls and Y is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, fluoro, chloro, bromo, alkyl having 1 to 4 carbons, cycloalkyl having 3 to 7 carbons, alkoxy having 1 to 4 carbons, alkylthio having 1 to 4 carbons and trifluoromethyl or X and Y when taken together are a 4,5 , 5,6or 6,7 methylenedioxy group or a 4,5 , 5,6 or 6,7ethylenedioxy group or X and Y when taken together and when attached to adjacent carbon atoms, form a divalent radical Z, wherein Z is selected from the group consisting ofEMI3.1 wherein W is oxygen or sulfur. Compounds of formula III wherein R is hydrogen are valuable intermediates for preparation of analgesic and antiinflammatory compounds of formula IV EMI3.2 wherein X and Y are as defined above and R1 is selected from the group consisting of alkyl having 1 to 6 carbons, cycloalkyl having 3 to 7 carbons, cycloalkenyl having 4 to 7 carbons, phenyl, substituted phenyl, phenylalkyl having 1 to 3 carbons in said alkyl, substituted phenyl alkyl having 1 to 3 carbons in said alkyl, phenoxyalkyl having 1 to 3 carbons in said alkyl, substituted phenoxy alkyl having 1 to 3 carbons in said alkyl, thiophenoxy alkyl having 1 to 3 carbons in said alkyl, naphthyl, bicyclo 2.2.l heptan 2 yl, bicycloE2,2.l hept 5 en 2 yl and CH2 n Q R wherein the substituent on said substituted phenyl, said substituted phenyl alkyl and said substituted phenoxy alkyl is selected from the group consisting of fluoro, chloro, bromo, alkyl having 1 to 4 carbons, alkoxy having 1 to 4 carbons and trifluoromethyl n is zero, 1 or 2 Q is a divalent radical derived from a compound selected from the group consisting of furan, thiophene, pyrrole, pyrazole, imidazole, thiazole, isothiazole, oxazole, isoxazole, 1,2,3 thiadiazole, 1,3,4 thiadiazole, 1,2,5 thiadiazole, tetrahydrofuran, tetrahydrothiophene, tetrahydropyran, tetrahydrothiopyran, pyridine, pyrimidine, pyrazine, benzotb furan and benzotb thiophene and RO is hydrogen or alkyl having 1 to 3 carbons. Favored compounds of formula IV are those wherein i one of X and Y is hydrogen and the other is 5 or 6 chloro, fluoro or trifluoromethyl or ii X is 5chloro or 5 fluoro and Y is 6 chloro or 6 fluoro.Said compounds exhibit a higher level of analgesic and antiinflammatory activity than do other of said formula IV compounds. The compounds of the formula IV are claimed in our European patent application as mentioned on page 1 line 22. Thus, the process of this invention is useful for preparing analgesic and antiinflammatory compounds of the formula TV, wherein X, Y and R1 are as defined previously. These compounds are derivatives of 2oxindole, the bicyclic amide of the formulaEMI5.1 More particularly, these analgesic and antiinflammatory agents have a carboxamido substituent, C O NEi, at the l position and an acyl substituent, C O R , at the 3 position of 2 oxindole, and the benzo ring can be further substituted by X and Y groups.X and Y can be certain monovalent substituents as defined previously, or X and Y when on adjacent carbon atoms on the benzo ring can represent a rnethylenedioxy group, OCH20 , or an ethylenedioxy group, OCE2CH20 . Yet further, X and Y, when they are attached to adjacent carbon atoms of the benzo ring of the 2 oxindole, can form a divalent unit, Z, such that when Z is taken with the carbon atoms to which it is attached it forms a fused carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Certain divalent groups for Z i.e. zl Z5 have been listed earlier.Thus, when Z is Z1, X and Y when taken with the carbons to which they are attached represent a fused cyclopentene ring and when Z is Z5, X and Y when taken with the carbons to which they are attached represent a fused furan or thiophene ring. Moreover, it is to be understood that when Z is Z4 or Z5, the Z group can be attached in either of two possible e ways. Thus, for example, when X and Y are at C 5 and C 6 and they are Z51 the formula IV embraces both of the following formulae EMI6.1 The compounds of formula III are prepared from the appropriate 2 oxindoles of formula I by the twostep sequence shown above. The required 2 oxindoles R R are prepared by methods known to those skilled in the art. The following references describe preparation of various 2 oxindoles The Chemistry of Heterocyclic Compounds , Indoles, Part Two, Edited by Roulihan, Wiley Interscience, N Y., pp. 142 143, 1973 wRodd s Chemistry of Carbon Compounds ,Second Edition, Edited by S. Coffey Vol. IV A,Elsevier Scientific Publishing Company, pp. 448 450, 1973 Walker, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 77, 3844 3850 1955 Wright et al., J. Am. Chem.Soc., 78, 221 224 1956 McEvoy et al., J. Org. Chem. 38, 3350 1973 Gassman et al., J. Org. Chem., 42, 1340 1977 Beckett et al., Tetrahedron 24, 6093 1968 Protiva et al., Coll. Czech. Chem. Comm. 44, 2108 1979 andU.S. Patents Nos. 3,882,236 4,006,161 and 4,160,032.Additionally, preparations of representative substituted 2 oxindoles are presented herein. The starting materials of formula I wherein R is CO R1 wherein R1 is as defined above are prepared by acylating the appropriate compound of formula I wherein R is hydrogen by methods known to those skilled in the art. For example, the acyl moiety CO R1 is attached by reacting a compound of the formula I with an activated derivative of the appropriate acid of the formula R1 C O OH, in a lower alkanol solvent e.g. ethanol , in the presence of an alkali metal salt of the lower alkanol solvent e.g. sodium ethoxide , according to standard procedures.Typical derivatives of the acid of the formula 1 C O OH which can be used include acid chlorides, acid anhydrides of the formula R1 C O O C O R1, Rl C o o C o R3 and R1 C O O C O oR4, and simple alkyl esters of the formula R1 C O OR4 wherein R3 is a bulky low molecular weight alkyl group such as t butyl and R4 is a low molecular weight alkyl group. Usually, a small excess of the derivative of the acid of formula R1 C O OH is used, and the alkoxide salt is usually present in an amount from one to two molar equivalents, based on said derivative of the acid of formula R1 C O OH. The reaction between the derivative of the acid of the formula R1 C O OH and the compound of formula I, wherein R is hydrogen, is usually started at 0 to 25 C., but it is then usual to heat the reaction mixture at a temperature in the range from 50 to 1300C., and preferably at about 800C., to complete the reaction. Under these circumstances, reaction times of a few hours, e.g. two hours, up to a few days, e.g., two days, are commonly used. The reaction mixture is then cooled, diluted with an excess of water, and acidified. The product of formula I, wherein R is CO R1 can then be recovered by filtration or by the standard procedure of solvent extraction. The first step of the process of this invention, reaction of the appropriate 2 oxindole with chloro sulfonyl isocyanate, is conducted in a reaction inert solvent medium i.e., a solvent which does not react with the chlorosulfonyl isocyanate or the 2 oxindolel chlorosulfonylamide product of formula II. Said solvent need not bring about complete solution of the reactants. Representative solvents are dialkyl ethers such as diethyl ether diisopropyl ether aromatic hydrocarbons such as benzene, xylene and toluene chlorinated hydrocarbons such as methylene chloride and chloroform and acetonitrile. The reaction is generally conducted at temperatures ranging from 20 C. to the reflux temperature of the solvent used. In general, temperatures of from 250C.to 1100C. are favored. Temperatures down to 700C., can be used if desired. However, temperatures below O C. are generally avoided for practical reasons. The 2 oxindole and chlorosulfonyl isocyanate are generally reacted in molar proportions ranging from equimolar to 30 excess of chlorosulfonyl isocyanate, i.e., 1 1 to 1 1.3. Larger excesses of chlorosulfonyl isocyanate appear to afford no advantages and are not used for reasons of economy. The thus produced chlorosulfonamide derivatives of formula IZ can be isolated, if desired, or can be converted directly in the same reaction vessel without isolation to formula III compounds. Isolation of the intermediate chlorosulfonamido compounds of formula II is achieved by procedures known to those skilled in the art e.g. by filtration, evaporation of solvent or extraction. The second step of the process, hydrolysis of the chlorosulfonamido derivatives formula II is carried out by treating the formula II compounds, with or without isolation thereof, with water, aqueous acid or aqueous base. Water alone is generally favored as the hydrolyzing agent even in instances wherein the hydrolysis step involves a two phase system. The rate of hydrolysis is sufficiently rapid as to overcome any solubility problems of reactants. Additionally, from the standpoint of large scale reactions, the use of water alone is more economical than are the other hydrolysis methods. The use of an aqueous inorganic or organic acid as hydrolyzing agent sometimes overcomes the development of two phase reaction systems. This is often the case when aqueous acetic acid is used. The amount of acid is not critical to the hydrolysis step. It can range from less than equimolar quantities to greater than equimolar quantities. Also not critical is the concentration of the acid used. In general, when aqueous acid is used for the hydrolysis step, from about 0.1 mole of acid per mole of formula II compound to up to 3 moles of acid per mole of formula II compound is used. Acid concentrations of from about 1 molar to 6 molar are generally used for ease of handling.The use of aqueous acid is often resorted to when the formula II intermediate is isolated and a single phase hydrolysis mixture is desired. Representative acids are hydrochloric, sulfuric, phosphoric, acetic, formic, citric and benzoic acids. The compounds of formula IV are prepared from the appropriate 2 oxindole l carboxamide compound of the formula III, wherein R is hydrogen, and X and Y are as previously defined. This is accomplished by attaching the substituent C O R1 to the 3 position of the 2 oxindole nucleus. The C O R1 substituent is attached by reacting said compound of the formula III with an activated derivative of a carboxylic acid of the formula R1 C O OH. The reaction is carried out by treating said compound of formula III in an inert solvent with one molar equivalent, or a slight excess, of an activated derivative of a compound of formulaR1 C O OH, in the presence of from one to four equivalents of a basic agent. An inert solvent is one which will dissolve at least one of the reactants, and will not adversely interact with either of the reactants or the product. However, in practice, a polar, aprotic solvent, such as N,N dimethylformamide, N,N dimethyl acetamide, N methylpyrrolidone or dimethyl sulfoxide, is commonly used. Conventional methods for activating the acid of formula R1 C O OH are used. For example, acid halides, e.g., acid chlorides, symmetrical acid anhydrides, Rl C O O C O Rl, mixed acid anhydrides with a hindered low molecular weight carboxylic acid, R1 C .O O C O R3, where R3 is a bulky lower alkyl group such as t butyl, and mixed carboxylic carbonic anhydrides, R1 C O O C .O 0R4, wherein R4 is a low molecular weight alkyl group, can all be used.In addition, N hydroxyimide esters such as N hydroxysuccinimide and N hydroxyphthalimide esters , 4nitrophenyl esters, thiol esters such as thiol phenyl esters and 2,4,5 trichiorophenyl esters, and the like, can be used. Moreover, in those cases in which R1 is a heteroaryl group e.g., furyl , simple alkyl esters of the formula R1 C O O R4, where R4 is a low molecular weight alkyl group e.g., ethyl , can sometimes be used as the activated derivative of the acid of formula R1 C O OH when attaching the C O R1 substituent to the 3 position of the 2oxindole compound of formula III, wherein R is hydrogen. A wide variety of basic agents can be used in the reaction between a compound of formula III, wherein R is hydrogen and the activated derivative of the acid of the formula R1 C O OH. However, preferred basic agents are tertiary amines, such as trimethylamine, triethylamine, tributylamine, N methylmorpholine, Nmethylpiperidine and 4 N,N dimethylamino pyridine. The reaction between a compound of the formulaIII, wherein R is hydrogen, and the activated derivative of the acid of formula R1 C O OH is usually carried out in the temperature range from 10 to 250 C.Reaction times of from 30 minutes to a few hours are common. At the end of the reaction, the reaction medium is usually diluted with water and acidified, and then the product can be recovered by filtration.It can be purified by standard methods, such as recrystallization. The analgesic activity of compounds of formula IV has been demonstrated in mice by showing blockade of the abdominal stretching induced by administration of 2 phenyl 1,4 benzoquinone PBQ . The method used was based on that of Siegmund et al., Proc. Soc. Exp.Biol. Med., 95 729 731, 1957, as adapted for high throughput see further Mine and Twomey, Agents andActions, 10 31 37, 1980 . The mice used in these experiments were Carworth males, albino CF 1 strain, weighing 18 20 g. All mice were fasted overnight prior to drug administration and testing. The compounds of formula IV were dissolved or suspended in a vehicle consisting of ethanol 5 , emulphor 620 a mixture of polyoxyethylene fatty acid esters, 5 and saline 90 . This vehicle also served as control. Doses were on a logarithmic scale i.e., ... 0.32, 1.0, 3.2, 10, 32... mg kg . The route of administration was oral, with concentrations varied to allow a constant injection volume of 10 ml kg of mouse. The aforesaid method of Milne andTwomey was used to determine efficacy and potency.Mice were treated with compounds orally, and one hour later received PBQ, 2 mg kg intraperitoneally.Individual mice were then immediately placed in a warmed lucite chamber, and, starting five minutes after PBQ administration, the number of abdominal constrictions during the subsequent 5 minutes was recorded. The degree of analgesic protection MPE was calculated on the basis of suppression of abdominal constriction relative to counts from concurrent control animals run on the same day. At least four such determinations N 5 provided dose response data for generation of an PESO, the best estimate of the dose that reduces abdominal constriction of 50 of control levels. The antiinflammatory activity of compounds of formula IV has been demonstrated in rats by a method based on the standard carrageenin induced rat foot edema test. Winter et al., Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol.Med., 111 544, 1963 . Unanesthetized, adult, male, albino rats of 150 g to 190 g body weight were numbered, weighed, and an ink mark placed on the right lateral maliecius. Each paw was immersed in mercury exactly to the ink mark.The mercury was contained a glass cylinder, connected to a Statham Pressure Transducer. The output from the transducer was fed through a control unit to a microvoltameter. The volume of mercury displaced by the immersed paw was read. Drugs were given by gavage.One hour after drug administration, edema was induced by injection of 0.05 ml of 1 solution of carrageenin into the plantar tissue of the marked paws. Immediately thereafter, the volume of the injected foot was measured.The increase in foot volume 3 hours after the injection of carrageenin constitutes the individual response. The analgesic activity of compounds of formula IV makes them useful for acute administration to mammals, including humans, for the control of pain, e.g., postoperative pain and the pain of trauma. The antiinflammatory activity of said compounds makes them useful for chronic administration to mammals including humans, for the control of inflammatory diseases, such as the arthritides, especially rheumatoid arthritis. When a compound of formula IV is to be used for either of said purposes, it can be administered to a mammalian subject alone, or, preferably, in combination with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or diluents in a pharmaceutical composition, according to standard pharmaceutical practice via the oral or parenteral includes intravenous, intramuscular, intraperitoneal, subcutaneous and topical route. In a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula IV, the weight ratio of carrier to active ingredient will normally be in the range from 1 4 to 4 1, and preferably 1 2 to 2 1. However, in any given case, the ratio chosen will depend on such factors as the solubility of the active component, the dosage contemplated and the precise route of administration. For oral use, said formula IV compound, can be administered in the form of tablets or capsules, or as an aqueous solution or suspension. Commonly used carriers for tablets include lactose and corn starch. Lubricating agents, such as magnesium stearate, are commonly added. Useful diluents for capsule dosage forms are lactose and dried corn starch. When aqueous suspensions are required for oral use, the active ingredient is combined with emulsifiying and suspending agents. If desired, certain sweetening and or flavoring agents can be added. For intramuscular, intraperitoneal, subcutaneous and intravenous use, sterile solutions of the active ingredient are usually prepared, and the pH of said solutions suitably adjusted and buffered. For intravenous use, the total concentration of solutes should be controlled to render the preparation isotonic. When a compound of formula IV is used in a human subject, the daily dosage, normally determined by the prescribing physician, will vary according to the age, weight and response of the individual patient, as well as the severity of the patient s 8ymptoms. However, for acute administration to relieve pain, an effective dose in most instances will be 0.1 to 1.0 g as needed e.g., every four to six hours . For chronic administration as an anti inflammatory agent, in most instances an effective dose will be from 0.5 to 3.0 g per day, in single or divided doses. On the other hand, it may be necessary to use dosages outside these limits in some cases. The following examples and preparations are provided solely for the purpose of illustrating the present invention. No attempt was made to optimize the yield of said examples and preparations. EXAMPLE 1 2 Oxindole l Carboxamide Chlorosulfonyl isocyanate 1.20 g, 8.4 mmoles was added to a mixture of 2 oxindole 0.94 g, 7.1 mmole in ether 30 ml and the reaction stirred at room temperature for 20 hours. The ether was removed under vacuum and the residue treated with water 10 ml and 1N HCl 10 mi . Ethyl acetate 125 ml was added and the mixture stirred for one hour. The ethyl acetate phase was separated, washed with 1N HC1 1 x 50 ml , brine 2 x 100 ml and dried MgSO4 , Concentration afforded 0.97 g 77 of crude product.Recrystallization from ethanol gave 0.18 g m.p. 1780 1800C. EXAMPLE 2 2 Oxindole l Carboxamide A mixture of 2 oxindole 5.86 g, 44.0 mmoles in toluene 160 ml was azeotroped for one hour to dry the toluene. Then, chlorosulfonyl isocyanate 7.47 g, 52.8 mmole was added. Hydrogen chloride was immediately evolved. The mixture was stirred and refluxed for 15 minutes and then cooled to room temperature. Water 50 ml was added to the cooled mixture some HC1 was initially evolved and the mixture stirred for 1.5 hours. The solid which formed was collected by filtration and dried 4.10 g . The filtrate was extracted with ethyl acetate 100 ml , the resulting extract washed with brine 2 x 100 ml and dried MgSO4 . Evaporation of the extract under reduced pressure gave 4.16 g of solid.The combined solids were recrystallized by dissolution in acetonitrile 200 ml followed by concentration of the solution under reduced pressure to about 75 ml. The small amount of amorphous material which separated was filtered off, the filtrate decolorized and concentrated under reduced pressure to about 50 ml volume, then seeded. The dark red crystals which separated were filtered and dried 3.0 g 38 . It was identical to the product of Example 1. EXAMPLE 3 2 Oxindole l Carboxamide To a slurry of 2 oxindole 13.3 g, 0.10 mole in toluene 150 ml was added chlorosulfonyl isocyanate 15.6 g, 0.11 mole and the reaction mixture heated on a steam bath for ten minutes a clear solution formed within about three minutes followed almost immediately by formation of a precipitate .It was then cooled in in ice bath for 30 minutes, the solid filtered off and air dried. The thus obtained chlorosulfonamido intermediate was added to a 2 1 mixture of acetic acid water 240 ml and the resulting slurry heated on a steam bath for ten minutes. It was cooled in an ice bath and the off white solid which formed filtered off and air dried. Concentration of the mother liquor to a slush and filtration thereof gave 1.2 g of product. The combined solids was recrystallized from about 250 ml of ethanol yield 11.48 g 65 . It was identical to the Example 1 product. EXAMPLE 4 6 Fluoro 5 Methyl 2 Oxindole 1 Carboxamide Following the procedure of Example 2, the title compound was prepared from 6 fluoro 5 methyl 2 oxindole 1.0 g, 6.0 mole , chlorosulfonyl isocyanate 1.03 g, 7.3 mmole , toluene 30 ml . Water 5 ml was used for the hydrolysis step. Yield 0.58 g, 46 . M.P. 200 2030C. Analysis Calcd. for C10H9N2O2F C, 57.69 H, 4.36 N, 13.46.Found C, 57.02 H, 4.41 N, 12.85. A sample of the chlorosulfonamide intermediate was removed prior to hydrolysis and subjected to mass spectrum analysis for exact mass determination C10H8N2O4SCl 307.9848. EXAMPLES 5 13 Substituted 2 Oxindole l Carboxamides The following compounds are prepared according to the procedure of Example 3 from appropriately substituted 2 oxindoles. EMI21.1 SEP Analysis tb SEP 2 Oxindole 1 Car SEP 2 Oxindole SEP CSI SEP Solvent SEP Intermediate SEP Hydrolysis SEP boxamide SEP Product SEP Calcd. SEP Found tb SEP ml tb SEP MP SEP HOAC SEP Yield SEP MP tb EXAMPLE SEP X SEP Y SEP g. SEP g. SEP ml. SEP g. SEP C SEP H2O SEP g. SEP SEP C SEP C SEP N SEP N SEP C SEP H SEP N tb 5 5 CH3 H 11.51 12.2 150 16 120 160 7.3 49 215 6 dec 6 5 OCH3 H 8.15 7.78 100 8.4 80 40 7.3 70 191 2 7 4 Cl H 5.03 4.67 85 149 50 45 25 3.64 58 201 2a 51.32 3.35 13.30 51.04 3.26 13.24 8 5 Cl H 10.0 9.3 200 15.8 163 50 5 9.8 46.8 211 dec 51.32 3.35 13.30 51.14 3.48 13.21 9 6 Cl H 4.18 3.89 85 165 6 41 21 4.09 78 221 2 dec dec 51.32 3.35 13.30 51.07 3.30 13.31 10 5 F H 10.0 10.3 100 16 50 100 6.7 52.3 198b 55.67 3.64 14.43 56.25 3.79 14.53 11 5 CF3 H 4.4 3.4 45 6.5 20 40 3.4 63.3 214.5b 49.19 2.89 11.48 48.90 3.05 11.50 12 4 CH3 5 CH3 4.8 4.7 45 8.8 25 50 4.08 66.6 222 64.69 5.92 13.72 64.57 5.94 13.64 dec 13 5 CH3 6 CH3 1.6 1.6 15 2.8 8 17 1.3 63.7 214.5a 64.69 5.92 13.72 64.52 6.67 13.66 a Recrystallized from ethanol b Recrystallized from acetonitrile c Recrystallized from acetic acid EXAMPLE 14 5,6 Methylenedioxy 2 oxindole 1 carboxamide 5,6 Methylenedioxy 2 oxindole 1 carboxamide was prepared by reaction of 5,6 methyienedioxy 2 oxindole with chlorosulfonyl isocyanate, followed by hydrolysis, using the procedure of Example 3. The product melted at 237 238 C. dec. after recrystallization from acetic acid. EXAMPLE 15 By reaction of the appropriate 2 oxindole with chlorosulfonyl isocyanate, followed by hydrolysis, using the procedure of Example 3, the following tricyclic compounds can be prepared EMI23.1 X and Y 4 CH2 CH2 CH2 5 5 CH2 CH2 CH2 6 6 CH2 CH2 CH2 CH2 7 5 CH CH CH CH 6 5 O CH2 CH2 6 5 CH2 CH2 O 6 5 S CH2 CE2 6 5 O CH CH 6 5 S CH CE 6 5 CH CH S 6 In this column, the numeral to the left of the formula indicates the point attachment of that end of the formula to the 2 oxindole nucleus and the numeral to the right indicates the point of attachment of that end of the formula to the 2 oxindole nucleus. EXAMPLE 16 6 Methyl thio 2 Oxindol e 1 Carboxamide Chlorosulfonyl isocyanate 5.66 g, 0.04 mole was added to a slurry of 6 methylthio 2 oxindole 6.0 g, 0.033 mole in acetonitrile 60 ml at 50 to 10 C. The reaction mixture was stirred for one hour. Water 100 ml was then added to said mixture with good stirring for ten minutes. The aqueous solution was extracted with ethyl acetate 600 ml , washed successively with water and brine, dried MgSO4 and evaporated under reduced pressure to give a gray solid which was recrystallized from acetonitrile. Yield 3.0 g. An additional 0.71 g of product was obtained from the mother liquor. Total yield 3.71 g 50.6 m.p. 1760 1790C. EXAMPLE 17 5,6 Dimethoxv 2 Oxindole l CarboxamSde Following the procedure of Example 16 the title compound was prepared from 5,6 dimethoxy 2 oxindole 8.0, 0.042 mole , chlorosulfonyl isocyanate 7.08 g, 0.05 mole and acetonitrile 75 ml . The crude product obtained upon evaporation of the ethyl acetate extract was recrystallized from acetonitrile acetic acid 1 1 . Yield 6.02 g 60 m.p. 206.50 2090C. Similarly, 5,6 methylenedioxy 2 oxindole lcarboxamide is prepared from 5,6 methylenedioxy 2oxindole. EXAMPLE 18 6 Trifluoromethyl 2 Oxindole l Carboxamide To a slurry of 6 trifluoromethyl 2 oxindole 8.0 g, 0.04 mole in acetonitrile 80 ml was added chlorosulfonyl isocyanate 6.65 g, 0.047 mole and the mixture stirred for 45 minutes. Water 100 ml was then added and the aqueous mixture stirred for one hour. The precipitate which formed was filtered off and recrystallized from acetonitrile to give 0.92 g of title product. Extraction of the filtration from the aqueous reaction mixture with ethyl acetate 300 ml followed by drying the extract over MgSO4 and then evaporating it under reduced pressure gave additional product. Recrystallization from acetonitrile gave additional 2.2 g product. Additional product 1.85 g was recovered by combining the mother liquors from the acetonitrile recrystallizations and concentrating same under reduced pressure. Total yield 4.97 g 51 m.p. 207.5 210 C. EXAMPLES 19 24 Repetition of the procedure of Example 18 but using the appropriate substituted 2 oxindole afforded the following compounds.EMI27.1 EMI28.1 SEP 2 Oxindole 1 Car SEP 2 Oxindole SEP CSI SEP Solvent SEP Intermediate SEP Hydrolysis SEP boxamide SEP Product tb SEP Agent SEP MP SEP Water SEP Yield SEP MP tb EXAMPLE SEP X SEP Y SEP g. SEP g. SEP ml. SEP g. SEP C SEP ml SEP g. SEP SEP C tb 19 4 SCH3 H 2.25 2.26 25 20 1.62 56 181 4 20 6 F H 1.06 0.99 15 141.5 143 15 1.21 94.5 191.5 194 21 6 Br H 3.75 2.97 40 158 161 40 2.50 58 205 8 22 5 NO2 H 1.1 1.13 30 232 235 5 0.52 38.5 201 5 23 5 F 6 Cl 1.59 1.42 55a 20 1.02b 52c 229 31 24 5 F 6 F 3.0 2.98 13 15 2.60 72 198 201 a toluene used as solvent b NMR shows the isomeric 4 chloro 5 fluoro 2 oxindole 1 carboxamide also produced. starting material a mixture of isomers .c Evaporation of toluene solvent gave an additional 0.59 g for 84 yield. EXAMPLE 25 3 2 Furoyl 6 Fluoro 2 Oxindole 1 Carboxamide Following substantially the procedure of Example 18, the title was prepared in 17 yield from 3 2furoyl 6 fluoro 2 oxindole 0.30 g, 1.2 mole , chlorosulfonyl isocyanate 0.20 g, 1.4 mmole , acetonitrile 15 ml , and water 10 ml , Yield 0,060 g m.p. 231 2350C. EXAMPLE 26 Substituted 2 Oxindole l Chlorosulfonamides The procedure of Example 16 was followed, using the appropriate substituted 2 oxindole as reactant.Prior to the hydrolysis step, the intermediate chlorosulfonyl derivative was recovered by filtration, if a solid was present or by evaporation from a small volume of the reaction mixture if no precipitate formed. A sample of the thus obtained intermediate was then subjected to exact mass determination.EMI30.1 2 Oxindole CSI ml Intermediate X Y g. g. Solvent Formula Exact Mass 6 F H 1.5 1.70 15 C9E6N2 4FSC1 291.9721 6 CF3 H 0.5 0.35 10a CloH6N204F3SCl 341.3693 5 F 6 Cl 1.59 1.42 55a C9H6N2O4FSCl2 326.9340 5 NO2 H 1.75 0.35 55a C9H6H3O6SCl 318.9675 6 Br H 0.40 0.31 5a C9H6N2O4SBrCl 351.8863 5 OCH3 6 OCH3 1.0 0.85 12 C11H11N2O6SCl 344.0034 6 SCH3 H 0.20 0.18 3a C10H9N2O4S2Cl 319.9636 4 SCH3 H 0.20 0.18 3a C10H0N2O4S2Cl 319.9696 6 F 5 CH3 0.16 0.14 10a C10H9N2O4FClS 307.9848 a toluene used as solvent EXAMPLE 27 6 Phenyl 2 oxindole l carboxamide To 4.5 g. 21.5 mmole of 6 phenyl 2 oxindole in a mixture of 100 ml. of toluene and 25 ml. of tetrahydrofuran was added, with stirring, at 50C., 2.2 ml. 25.8 mmole of chlorosulfonyl isocyanate. Stirring was continued for 1 hour at 0 5 C. and then 100 ml. of water was added. The solid was recovered by filtration and added to a mixture of 40 ml. of glacial acetic acid and 80 ml. of water. The resulting mixture was heated at lOO0C. for 1 hour, cooled and filtered. The residue was dried to give 3.1 g. of the title compound, mp. 188 1890C, EXAMPLE 28 5 Benzoyl 2 oxindole l carboxamide A mixture of 10.1 g. 42 mmole of 5 benzoyl 2oxindole, 4.4 mi. 51 mmole of chlorosulfonyl isocyanate and 300 ml. of tetrahydrofuran was stirred at room temperature for 6 hours, and then the solvent was removed by evaporation in vacua. The residue was added to 150 ml. of glacial acetic acid and 300 ml. of water and the resulting mixture was heated under reflux for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled and the supernatant liquid was removed by decantation.The remaining gummy residue was triturated under acetonitrile to give a solid which was recovered by filtration and then recrystallized from a 1 1 mixture of n propanol and acetonitrile. This gave 4.1 g. of the title compound as a solid, mp. 210 211 C. EXAMPLE 29 Reaction of 5 acetyl 2 oxindole and 5 2 thenoyl 2 oxindole with chlorosulfonyl isocyanate, followed by hydrolysis with aqueous acetic acid, substantially according to the procedure of Example 28, afforded the following compounds 5 acetyl 2 oxindole l carboxamide, 34 yield, mp 2250C. dec. from CH3CN and 5 2 thenoyl 2 oxindole 1 carboxamide, 51 yield, mp 2000C. dec. from CH30H CE3CN , respectively. EXAMPLE 30 3 2 Thenoyl 5 chloro 2 oxindole 1 carboxamide To a stirred slurry of 1.5 g. 5.4 mmole of 3 2 thenoyl 5 chloro 2 oxindole in 15 ml. of dry acetonitrile was added 0.52 ml. 5.9 mmole of chlorosulfonyl isocyanate, and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. A small sample was removed, filtered and evaporated in vacuo to give a small sample of N chlorosulfonyl 3 2 thenoyl 5 chloro 2 oxindole l carboxamide, mp 166 1690C. To the remainder of the reaction mixture, 30 ml. of water was added slowly with stirring and stirring was continued for 1 hour. The e reaction mixture was then poured into 50 ml. of 1N hydrochloric acid containing ice chips, and the resulting mixture was stirred for 20 minutes.The yellow solid was recovered by filtration, washed with water and diisopropyl ether and recrystallized from glacial acetic acid to give 200 mg. of a first crop of the title compound, mp 213 2150C, The mother liquors from which the first crop had been recovered deposited a further yellow solid. The latter solid was recovered by filtration to give 470 mg. of a second crop of the title compound. The second crop was recrystallized from glacial acetic acid and combined with the first crop and recrystallized from glacial acetic acid.This gave 280 mg. of the title compound, mp 2322340C. PREPARATION 1 5 Chloro 2 oxindole To a stirred slurry of 100 g 0.55 mol of 5chloroisatin in 930 ml of ethanol was added 40 ml 0.826 mol of hydrazine hydrate, resulting in a red solution. The solution was heated under reflux for 3.5 hours, during which time a precipitate appeared. The reaction mixture was stirred overnight, and then the precipitate was recovered by filtration to give 5chloro 3 hydrazono 2 oxindole as a yellow solid, which was dried in a vacuum oven, The dried solid weighed 105.4 g. The dried solid was then added portionwise, during 10 minutes, to a solution of 125.1 g of sodium ethoxide in 900 ml of absolute ethanol. The resultant solution was heated under reflux for 10 minutes and then it was concentrated in vacuo to a gummy solid.The gummy solid was dissolved in 400 ml of water and the aqueous solution thus obtained was decolorized with activated carbon and then poured into a mixture of 1 liter of water and 180 ml of concentrated hydrochloric acid containing ice chips. A tan solid precipitated and it was collected by filtration and washed thoroughly with water. The solid was dried and then it was washed with diethyl ether. Finally it was recrystallized from ethanol to give 48.9 g of the title compound, mp 193 1950C, dec . In an analogous fashion, 5 methylisatin was converted into 5 methyl 2 oxindole by treatment with hydrazine hydrate followed sodium ethoxide in ethanol.The product melted at 173 1740C. PREPARATION 2 4,5 Dimethyl 2 oxindole and 5,6 dimethyl 2 oxindole 3,4 Dimethylaniline was converted into 3,4 dimethylisonitrosoacetanilide by reaction with chloral hydrate and hydroxylamine, using the method described in Organic Syntheses, Collective Volume I, page 327.The 3,4 dimethyl isonitrosoacetanilide was cyclized with sulfuric acid, according to the method of Baker et al., Journal of Organic Chemistry, 17, 149 1952 , to give 4,5 dimethylisatin m.p. 225 226 C. and 5,6 dimethylisatin m.p. 217 218 C. . 4,5 Dimethylisatin was converted into 4,5 dimethyl2 oxindole, m.p. 245.5 247.5 C., by treatment with hydrazine hydrate, followed by sodium ethoxide in ethanol, substantially according to the procedure ofPreparation 1. In like manner, 5,6 dimethylisatin was converted into 5,6 dimethyl 2 oxindole, m.p. 196.5 198 C., by treatment with hydrazine hydrate, followed by sodium ethoxide in ethanol, substantially according to the procedure of Preparation 1. PREPARATION 3 4 Chloro 2 oxindole and 6 chloro 2 oxindoleA . Isonitroso 3 chioroacetanilide To a stirred solution of 113.23 g 0.686 mol of chloral hydrate in 2 liters of water was added 419 g 2.95 mol of sodium sulfate, followed by a solution prepared from 89,25 g 0.70 mol of 3 chloroaniline, 62 ml of concentrated hydrochloric acid and 500 ml of water. A thick precipitate formed. To the reaction nixture was then added, with stirring, a solution of 155 g 2.23 mol of hydroxylamine in 500 ml of water.Stirring was continued and the reaction mixture was warmed slowly and it was maintained between 60 and 750C. for approximately 6 hours, during which time an additional 1 liter of water had been added to facilitate stirring. The reaction mixture was then cooled and the precipitate was recovered by filtration. The wet solid was dried to give 136.1 g of isonitroso 3 chloroacetanil ide. B. 4 Chioroisatin and 6 chloroisatin To 775 ml of concentrated sulfuric acid, preheated to 704C., was added, with stirring, 136 g of isonitroso3 chloroacetanilide at such a rate as to maintain the reaction medium at a temperature between 75 and 850C. When all the solid had been added, the reaction mixture was heated at 90 C. for an additional 30 minutes. The reaction mixture was then cooled, and poured slowly onto ca 2 liters of ice, with stirring. Additional ice was added as necessary to maintain the temperature below room temperature. A red orange precipitate formed which was recovered by filtration, washed with water and dried. The resultant solid was slurried in PREPARATION 3 Cant. 2 liters of water, and then it was brought into solution by the addition of ca 700 ml of 3N sodium hydroxide. The solution was filtered, and then pE was adjusted to 8 with concentrated hydrochloric acid. At this point, 120 ml of a mixture of 80 parts water and 20 parts concentrated hydrochloric acid was added.The solid which precipitated was recovered by filtration, washed with water and dried to give 50 g of crude 4 chloroisatin. The filtrate from which the 4chloroisatin had been recovered was further acidified to pH 0 using concentrated hydrochloric acid, whereupon a further precipitate formed. It was recovered by filtration, washed with water and dried, to give 43 g of crude 6 chloroisatin. The crude 4 chloroisatin was recrystallized from acetic acid to give 43.3 g of material melting at 258 2590C. The crude 6 chloroisatin was recrystallized from acetic acid to give 36.2 g of material melting at 261 262 C C. 4 Chloro 2 oxindole To a stirred slurry of 43.3 g of 4 chloroisatin in 350 ml of ethanol was added 17.3 ml of hydrazine hydrate, and then the reaction mixture was heated under reflux for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled, and the precipitate was recovered by filtration to give 43.5 g, of 4 chl oro 3 hydrazono 2 oxindole, mp 235 2360C. To a stirred solution of 22 g of sodium in 450 ml of anhydrous ethanol was added, portionwise, 43.5 g of 4 chloro 3 hydrazono 2 oxindole, and the resulting solution was heated under reflux for 30 minutes. PREPARATION 3 Cont. The cooled solution was then concentrated to a gum, which was dissolved in 400 ml of water and decolorized using activated carbon. The resulting solution was poured onto a mixture of 1 liter of water and 45 ml of concentrated hydrochloric acid. The precipitate which formed was recovered by filtration, dried and recrystallized from ethanol, giving 22.4 g of 4 chloro 2oxindole, mp 216 218 C dec .D. 6 Chloro 2 oxindole Reaction of 36.2 g of 6 chloroisatin with hydrazine hydrate followed by sodium ethoxide in ethanol, substantially according to C above, afforded 14.2 g of 6chloro 2 oxindole, mp 196 1980C. PREPARATION 4 5, 6 Difluoro 2 oxindole Reaction of 3,4 difluoroaniline with chloral hydrate and hydroxylamine followed cyclization with sulfuric acid, in a manner analogous to Parts A and B of Preparation 3, gave 5,6 difluoroisatin, which was reacted with hydrazine hydrate followed by sodium methoxide in ethanol, in a manner analogous toPreparation 1, to give the title compound, m.p. 1871900C. PREPARATION 5 5 Fluoro 2 oxindole To a stirred solution of 11.1 g 0.1 mol of 4fluoroaniline in 200 ml of dichloromethane, at 60 to 650C, was added, dropwise, a solution of 10.8 g 0.1 mol of t butyl hypochlorite in 25 ml of dichloromethane. Stirring was continued for 10 minutes at 60 to 650C, and then was added, dropwise, a solution of 13.4 g 0.1 mol of ethyl 2 methylthio acetate in 25 ml of dichloromethane. Stirring was continued at 60 C. for 1 hour and then was added, dropwise, at 60 to 65 C, a solution of 11.1 g 0.11 mol of triethylamine in 25 ml of dichloromethane. The cooling bath was removed, and when the reaction mixture had warmed to room temperature, 100 ml of water was added.The phases were separated, and the organic phase was washed with saturated sodium chloride solution, dried Na2SO4 and evaporated in vacuo. The residue was dissolved in 350 ml of diethyl ether, to which was added 40 ml of 2N hydrochloric acid. This mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight.The phases were separated and the ether phase was washed with water, followed by saturated sodium chloride. The dried Na2SO4 ether phase was evaporated in vacuo to give 17 g of an orange brown solid which was triturated under isopropyl ether. The solid was then recrystallized form ethanol, to give 5.58 g of 5 fluoro 3 methylthio 2 oxindole, mp 151.5 152.50C. Analysis Calcd for CgH8ONFS C, 54.80 H, 4.09 N, 7.10 . Found C, 54.74 H, 4.11 N, 7.11 . A sample of the above 5 fluoro 3 methylthio 2 oxindol 986 mg, 5.0 mmol was added to 2 teaspoonsful of Raney nickel under 50 ml of absolute ethanol, and then the reaction mixture was heated under reflux for PREPARATION 5 Cont. 2 hours. The catalyst was removed by decantation and was washed with absolute ethanol. The combined ethanol solutions were evaporated in vacuo and the residue was dissolved in dichloromethane. The dichloromethane solution was dried Na2SO4 and evaporated in vacuo to give 475 mg of 5 fluoro 2 oxindole, mp 121 1340C. In analogous fashion, 4 trifluoromethylaniline was reacted with t butyl hypochlorite, ethyl 2 methylthio acetate and triethylamine followed by reduction of the 3 thiomethyl 5 trifluoromethyl 2 oxindole thus obtained with Raney nickel, to give 5 trifluoromethyl2 oxindole, mp 189.5 190.5 C. PREPARATION 6 6 Fluoro 5 methyl 2 oxindole An intimate mixture of 11.62 g 57.6 mmol of N 2 chloroacetyl 3 fluoro 4 methylaniline and 30.6 g 229.5 mmol of anhydrous aluminum chloride was heated to 210 220 C. After 4 hours, the reaction mixture was cooled and then added to 100 ml of 1N hydrochloric acid and 50 ml of ice. A tan solid formed, which was collected by filtration and recrystallized from aqueous ethanol. Three crops were obtained, weighing 4.49 g, 2.28 g and 1.0 g, respectively. The first two crops comprised a mixture of isomers 4 fluoro 5methyl and 6 fluoro 5 methyl 2 oxindoles . The crop weighing 1.0 g was further recrystallized from water to give 280 mg of the title compound, mp 168.5 1710C. PREPARATION 7 6 Phenyl 2 oxindol e To 3.46 g. 0.072 mole of sodium hydride was added 50 ml. of dimethyl sulfoxide followed by the dropwise addition of a solution of 8.2 ml. 0.072 mole of dimethyl malonate in 10 ml. of dimethyl sulfoxide, with stirring. After completion of the addition, stirring was continued for 1 hour, and then a solution of 10 g. 0.036 mole of 4 bromo 3 nitrodiphenyl in 50 ml. of dimethyl sulfoxide was added.The reaction mixture was heated to 1000C. for 1 hour, cooled, and poured onto a mixture of ice water containing 5 g. of ammonium chloride. The mixture thus obtained was extracted with ethyl acetate, and the extracts were washed with sodium chloride solution and dried using magnesium sulfate. Evaporation in vacuo to give an oil, which was chromatographed using silica gel and then recrystallized from methanol to afford 6 g. of dimethyl 2 3 nitro 4 diphenylyl malonate, m.p. 82 83 C. A portion 5 g. of the above nitro compound was reduced with hydrogen over a platinum catalyst, in a mixture of 50 ml. of tetrahydrofuran and 10 ml. of methanol, at a pressure of ca 5 kg cmê, to give the corresponding amine. The latter compound was refluxed in ethanol for 16 hours, and then the product was recovered by solvent evaporation and recrystallized from methanol to give 1.1 g. of ethyl 6 phenyl 2oxindole l carboxylate, m.p. 115 1170C. The above ethyl ester 1.0 g. and 100 ml. of 6N hydrochloric acid was heated under reflux for 3 hours and then allowed to stand at room temperature for 3 PREPARATION Cont. days. The solid was collected by filtration and dried, to give 700 mg. of 6 phenyl 2 oxindole, m.p. 175 1760C. PREPARATION 8 5 Acetyl 2 oxindole To 95 ml. of carbon disulfide was added 27 g. 0.202 mole of aluminum chloride, followed by the dropwise addition of a solution of 3 ml. 0.042 mole of acetyl chloride in 5 ml. of carbon disulfide, with stirring. Stirring was continued for 5 minutes and then 4.4 g. 0.033 mole of 2 oxindole was added. The resulting mixture was heated under reflux for 4 hours and cooled. The carbon disulfide was removed by decantation and the residue was triturated under water and recovered by filtration. After drying, 3.2 g. of the title compound was obtained, m.p. 225 2270C. Reaction of 2 oxindole with benzoyl chloride and with 2 thenoyl chloride in the presence of aluminum chloride, substantially according to the above procedure, afforded the following compounds 5 benzoyl 2 oxindole, m.p. 203 205QC. fromCH30H and 5 2 thenoyl 2 oxindole, m.p. 211 2130C. from CR3CN . PREPARATION 9 5 Bromo 2 oxindole can be prepared by bromination of 2 oxindole see further Beckett et al., Tetrahedron, 24, 6093 1968 and Sumpter et al., Journal of theAmerican Chemical Society, 67, 1656 1945 . 5 n Butyl 2 oxindole can be prepared by reaction of 5 n butylisatin with hydrazine hydrate followed by sodium methoxide in ethanol, according to the procedure of Preparation 1. 5 n Butylisatin can be prepared from 4 n butylaniline by treatment with chloral hydrate and hydroxylamine, followed by cyclization with sulfuric acid, according to the procedure of Parts A and B ofPreparation 3. 5 Ethoxy 2 oxindole can be prepared by conversion of 3 hydroxy 6 nitro toluene into 3 ethoxy 6 nitro toluene by standard methods potassium carbonate and ethyl iodide in acetone , followed by conversion of the 3 ethoxy 6 nitrotoluene into 5 ethoxy 2 oxindole by the method described by Beckett et al., Tetrahedron, 24, 6093 1968 , for the conversion of 3 methoxy 6 nitrotoluene into 5 methoxy 2 oxindole. 5 n Butoxy 2oxindole can be prepared in like manner, but substituting n butyl iodide for ethyl iodide. 5, 6 Dimethoxy 2 oxindole can be prepared by the method of Walker, Journal of the American ChemicalSociety, 77, 3844 1955 . 7 Chloro 2 oxindole can be prepared by the method described in United States Patent No. 3,882,236. 4 Thiomethyl 2 oxindole and 6 thiomethyl 2 oxindole can be prepared by the method described in UnitedStates Patent No. 4,006,161. 5 n Butylthio 2 oxindole can be prepared in like manner, but substituting 4 butylthioaniline for the 3 methylthioaniline. PREPARATION 9 Contd 5,6 Methylenedioxy 2 oxindole can be prepared by the method of McEvoy et al., Journal of OrganicChemistry, 38, 3350 1973 . 5,6 Ethylenedioxy 2 oxindole can be prepared in analogous fashion. 6 Fluoro 2 oxindole can be prepared according toProtiva et al., Collection of Czechoslovakian ChemicalCommunications, 44, 2108 1979 and United StatesPatent No. 4,160,032. 6 Trifluoromethyl 2 oxindole can be prepared according to Simet, Journal of Organic Chemistry, 28, 3580 1963 . 6 Methoxy 2 oxindole can be prepared according toWieland et al., Chemische Berichte, 96, 253 1963 . 5 Nitro 2 oxindole can be prepared by the method of Sumpter et al., Journal of the American ChemicalSociety, 67, 499 1945 . 5 Cyclopropyl 2 oxindole and 5 cycloheptyl 2oxindole can be prepared by reaction of 5 cyclopropylisatin and 5 cycloheptylisatin, respectively, with hydrazine hydrate followed by sodium methoxide in ethanol, according to the procedure of Preparation 1.5 Cyclopropylisatin and 5 cycloheptylisatin can be prepared from 4 cyclopropylaniline and 4 cycloheptylaniline, respectively, by treatment with chloral hydrate and hydroxylamine, followed by cyclization with sulfuric acid, according to Parts A and B ofPreparation 3. PREPARATION 10 5 Amino 2 oxindol e l carboxamide To a solution of 5.0 gs of 5 nitro 2 oxindole lcarboxamide in 110 ml. of N,N dimethylformamide was added 0.5 g. of 10 palladium on carbon, and the resulting mixture was shaken under an atmosphere of hydrogen at an initial pressure of 5 kg cmê until hydrogen uptake ceased. The catalyst was removed by filtration, and the filtrate was diluted with brine and extracted with ethyl acetate. The extracts were dried MgSO4 and evaporated in vacuo to give a darkcolored oil which solidified after trituration under water. This afforded 3.0 g. of the title compound as a yellow solid, mp 189 1910C. PREPARATION 11 3 2 Furoyl 2 oxindole To a stirred solution of 5.5 g 0.24 mole of sodium in 150 ml of ethanol was added 13.3 g 0.10 mole of 2 oxindole at room temperature. The resulting slurry was cooled to ice bath temperature, and then 15.7 g 0.12 mole of 2 furoyl chloride was added, dropwise, during 10 15 minutes. The ice bath was removed, and an additional 100 ml of ethanol was added and then the reaction mixture was heated under reflux for 7 hours. The reaction mixture was allowed to stand overnight and then the solid was filtered off. The solid was added to 400 ml of water and the resulting mixture was acidified using concentrated hydrochloric acid. The mixture was cooled with ice and the solid was collected by filtration. The solid residue was recrystallized from 150 ml of acetic acid, affording 8.3 g of yellow crystals, mp 209 2100 dec .Analysis Calcd. for C13E903N C, 68.72 H, 3.99 N, 6.178. Found C, 68.25 H, 4.05 N, 6.20 . Reaction of 2 oxindole with the appropriate acid chloride using the above method, gave the following additional products 3 2 thenoyl 2 oxindole, mp 189 1900C, 17 yield 3 2 2 thlenyl acetyl 2 oxindole, mp 191 192.50C, 38 yield and 3 2 phenoxyacetyl 2 oxindole, mp 135 1360C, 42 yield. PREPARATION 12 3 3 Furoyl 2 oxindole To a stirred solution of 2.8 g 0.12 mole of sodium in 200 ml of ethanol was added 13.3 g 0.10 mole of 2 oxindole, followed by 16.8 g of ethyl .3furoate. The mixture was heated under reflux for 47 hours, cooled and then the solvent was removed by evaporation in vacuo. The residue was triturated under 200 ml of ether, and the solid was collected by filtration and discarded. The filtrate was evaporated in vacuo, and the residue triturated under isopropyl alcohol and recovered by filtration. The solid was suspended in 250 ml of water, which was then acidified with concentrated hydrochloric acid. This mixture was stirred to give a solid, which was recovered by filtration.This latter solid was recrystallized from acetic acid followed by acetonitrile to give 705 mg of the title compound, mp 185 1860C.Analysis Calcd. for C13H903N C, 68.72 H, 3.99 N, 6.17 . Found C, 68.72 H, 4.14 N, 6.14 . PREPARATION 13 5 Chloro 3 2 thenoyl 2 oxindole l carboxamide A stirred slurry of 21.1 g 0.1 mole of 5 chloro2 oxindole l carboxamide and 26.9 g 0.22 mole of 4 N,N dimethylamino pyridine in 200 ml of N,N dimethylformamide was cooled to ice bath temperature, and then a solution of 16.1 g 0.11 mole of 2 thenoyl chloride in 50 ml of N,N dimethylformamide was added dropwise.Stirring was continued for ca. 30 minutes, and then the reaction mixture was poured into a mixture of 1 liter of water and 75 ml of 3N hydrochloric acid.The resulting mixture was cooled in an ice bath, and then the solid was collected by filtration. The solid was recrystallized from 1800 ml of acetic acid to give 26.6 g of the title compound as fluffy, yellow crystals, m.p. 2300 C. dec. . A sample of the title compound from a similar experiment gave the following results on elemental analysis.Analysis Calcd. for C14H9C1N203S C, 52.42 H, 2.83 N, 8.74 . Found C, 52.22 H, 2.81 N, 8.53 . PREPARATION 14Reaction of the appropriate 2 oxindole 1 carboxamide with the requisite acid chloride of the formula RÚ CO Cl, substantially according to the procedure of Preparation 13, afforded the following compounds EMI50.1 EMI50.2 SEP Melting SEP Analysis tb SEP Point SEP Calculated SEP SEP Found SEP tb SEP X SEP RÚ SEP C. 1,2 SEP C SEP H SEP N SEP C SEP H SEP N tb 5 Cl SEP 2 furyl SEP 234d SEP 55.18 SEP 2.98 SEP 9.20 SEP 55.06 SEP 3.09 SEP 9.32 tb 5 Cl SEP 2 2 thienyl methyl SEP 240d SEP 53.81 SEP 3.31 SEP 8.37 SEP 53.40 SEP 3.31 SEP 8.37 tb 6 Cl SEP 2 furyl SEP 218 219 SEP 55.19 SEP 2.98 SEP 9.19 SEP 54.89 SEP 2.90 SEP 9.23 tb 6 Cl SEP 2 thienyl SEP 201 202 SEP 52.44 SEP 2.83 SEP 8.74 SEP 51.86 SEP 3.03 SEP 8.61 tb 6 Cl SEP 2 2 thienyl methyl SEP 219 220 SEP 53.83 SEP 3.31 SEP 8.37 SEP 53.70 SEP 3.45 SEP 8.38 tb PREPARATION 14 Cont. EMI51.1 SEP Melting SEP Analysis tb SEP Point SEP Calculated SEP SEP Found SEP tb SEP X SEP RÚ SEP C. 1,2 SEP C SEP H SEP N SEP C SEP H SEP N tb 5 F SEP 2 furyl SEP 232d SEP 58.34 SEP 3.15 SEP 9.72 SEP 57.99 SEP 3.13 SEP 9.70 tb 5 F SEP 2 thienyl SEP 231d SEP 55.25 SEP 2.98 SEP 9.21 SEP 55.49 SEP 3.00 SEP 9.28 tb 5 F SEP 2 2 thienyl methyl SEP 243d SEP 56.59 SEP 3.48 SEP 8.80 SEP 56.76 SEP 3.48 SEP 8.81 tb 6 F SEP 2 furyl SEP 230.5 233.5 SEP 58.33 SEP 3.13 SEP 9.75 SEP 57.73 SEP 3.04 SEP 9.72 tb 6 F SEP 2 thienyl SEP 117.5 120.5 SEP 55.26 SEP 2.96 SEP 9.21 SEP 55.14 SEP 2.91 SEP 9.15 tb 6 F SEP 2 2 thienyl methyl SEP 214.5 217 SEP 56.61 SEP 3.48 SEP 8.80 SEP 55.97 SEP 3.52 SEP 8.65 tb 5 CF3 SEP 2 furyl SEP 235.5d SEP 53.26 SEP 2.68 SEP 8.28 SEP 52.84 SEP 2.96 SEP 8.17 tb 5 CF3 SEP 2 thienyl SEP 212.5d SEP 50.85 SEP 2.56 SEP 7.91 SEP 50.43 SEP 2.72 SEP 7.90 tb 5 CF3 SEP 2 2 thienyl methyl SEP 223.5d SEP 52.17 SEP 3.01 SEP 7.61 SEP 51.72 SEP 3.37 SEP 7.45 tb 6 CF3 SEP 2 furyl SEP 206 208 SEP 53.26 SEP 2.68 SEP 8.28 SEP 52.87 SEP 3.03 SEP 8.27 tb 6 CF3 SEP 2 thienyl SEP 177 180 SEP 50.86 SEP 2.56 SEP 7.91 SEP 50.69 SEP 2.75 SEP 7.96 tb ÚAll compounds were recrystallized from acetic acid unless other wise noted.êThe letter d in this column indicates that the compound melted with decomposition. Recrystallized from N,N dimethylformamide. PREPARATION 15 5 Chloro 3 acetyl 2 oxindole 1 carboxamide A stirred slurry of 842 mg 4.0 mmole of 5 chloro 2 oxindole 1 carboxamide and 1.08 g 8.8 mmole of 4 N,N dimethylamino pyridine in 15 ml ofN,N dimethylfonnamide was cooled to ice bath temperature, and then a solution of 449 mg 4.4 mmole of acetic anhydride in 5 ml of N,N dimethylformamide was added dropwise. Stirring was continued for ca. 30 minutes, and then the reaction mixture was poured into a mixture of 75 ml of water and 3 ml of 3N hydrochloric acid. The resulting mixture was cooled in an ice bath and the solid was recovered by filtration. The solid was recrystallized from acetic acid to give 600 mg of fluffy, pale pink crystals, m.p. 237,5 C. dec. .Analysis Calcd. for C11H9C1N2O3 C, 52.29 H, 3.59 N, 11.0996. Found C, 52.08 H, 3.63 N, 11.04 .