# Improvements relating to gas water heaters.

## Abstract
A hot water storage vessel having an inlet and outlet water connection, a heat exchanger positioned outside said vessel in the connection between said inlet and outlet, said connection including an apertured body for securement to the vessel controlling the flow of water from a source of supply the vessel and the heat exchanger said apertured body including at least a cold water inlet aperture, an outlet aperture to said heat exchanger and a co axial bore common to said apertures the bore dimension at the inlet aperture being smaller than that at the outlet, a tube positioned in said bore communicating with the inlet and outlet aperture. Also disclosed is a heat exchanger including metal fins adapted to be heated by a gas burner said fins extending substantially radially from a pipe carrying water to be heated said fins being enclosed and constructed that flue gases from the burner follow a path circumferentially around the pipe before flowing to exhaust. Also disclosed is a water connection said connection including a co axial stepped diameter closed bore having at least two steps and adapted to open into the storage vessel, each stepped part of the bore being ported, the bore including a tubular insert extending thereinto and including a cut away or apertured portion communicating with the port associated with said intermediate bore and leaving an annular cavity communicating with the port associated with the largest stepped bore.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A water heating system including a gas fired heat exchanger, a hot water storage vessel having an inlet and outlet water connection, a heat exchanger positioned outside said vessel in the water connection between said inlet and outlet said heating exchanger including metal fins adapted to be heated by a gas burner said fins extending substantially radially from a pipe carrying water to be heated, said fins being enclosed and constructed that flue gases from said burner follow a path circumferentially around the pipe before flowing to exhaust. 2. A water heating system including a hot water storage vessel having an inlet and outlet water connection, a heat exchanger positioned outside said vessel in the connection between said inlet and outlet, said connection including an apertured body for securement to the vessel controlling the flow of water from a source of supply the vessel and the heat exchanger said apertured body including at least a cold water inlet aperture, an outlet aperture to said heat exchanger and a co axial bore common to said apertures the bore dimension at the inlet aperture being smaller than that at the outlet, a tube positioned in said bore communicating with the inlet and outlet aperture. 3. A gas fired water heating system including a storage tank in which a quantity of water is adapted to be maintained at a predetermined temperature, a heat exchanger heated by a gas flame adapted to heat water stored in the tank, the water circulating through said exchanger during a heating cycle by thermo syphon effect, and a water supply coupling allowing supply of water to the tank on demand and or circulation of water during a heating cycle. 4. A heat exchanger for use in a water heating system including a finned pipe adapted to carry water to be heated, said fins being closely spaced for exposure to hot gases, the fin spaces extending around the pipe and including a baffle extending from the pipe and at least a partial enclosure for the exchanger the arrangement being such that hot gases circulate about the pipe imparting heat to the fins and the pipe, the baffle acting to direct the gases from the exchanger to exhaust. 5. A water connection valve for use in a water storage vessel said connection including a co axial stepped diameter closed bore having at least two steps and adapted to open into the storage vessel, each stepped part of the bore being ported, the bore including a tubular insert extending thereinto and including a cut away or apertured portion communicating with the port associated with said intermediate bore and leaving an annular cavity communicating with the port associated with the largest stepped bore.

## Description
This invention relates to water heating apparatus particularly gas hot water services. Conventional commercial gas hot water systems have a relatively low efficiency rating as compared with commercial electric hot water systems. The present invention has as its objective the provision of a gas water heating apparatus having improved efficiency and longer life. According to the present invention there is provded a heat exchanger, a hot water storage vessel having an inlet and outlet water connection, a heat exchanger positioned outside said vessel in the water connection between said inlet and outlet said heating exchanger including metal fins adapted to be heated by a gas burner said fins extending substantially radially from a pipe carrying water to be heated, said fins being enclosed and constructed that flue gases from said burner follow a path circumferentially around the pipe before flowing to exhaust. In a further aspect of this invention there is provided a water heating system including a hot water storage vessel having an inlet and outlet water connection, a heat exchanger positioned outside said vessel in the connection between said inlet and outlet, said connection including an apertured body for securement to the vessel controlling the flow of water from a source of supply the vessel and the heat exchanger said apertured body including at least a cold water inlet aperture, an outlet aperture to said heat exchanger and a co axial bore common to said apertures the bore dimension at the inlet aperture being smaller than that at the outlet, a tube positioned in said bore communicating with the inlet and outlet aperture. There is also provided according to the present invention a gas fired water heating system including a storage tank in which a quantity of water is adapted to be maintained at a predetermined temperature, a heat exchanger heated by a gas flame adapted to heat water stored in the tank, the water circulating through said exchanger during a heating cycle by thermo syphon effect, and a water supply coupling allowing supply of water to the tank on demand and or circulation of water during a heating cycle. There is also provided a heat exchanger for heating water including a finned pipe adapted to carry water to be heated, said fins being closely spaced for exposure to hot gases, the fin spaces extending around the pipe and including a baffle extending from the pipe and at least a partial enclosure for the exchanger the arrangement being such that hot gases circulate about the pipe imparting heat to the fins and the pipe, the baffle acting to direct the gases from the exchanger to exhaust. There is also provided a water connection for use in a hot water storage vessel said connection including a co axial stepped diameter closed bore having at least two steps and adapted to open into the storage vessel, each stepped part of the bore being ported, the bore including a tubular insert extending thereinto and including a cut away or apertured portion communicating with the port associated with said intermediate bore and leaving an annular cavity communicating with the port associated with the largest stepped bore The invention will now be described having reference to the accompanying drawings in which Figure 1 is a schematic view of a hot water system made according to the present invention. Figure 2 is an elevational view of a water connection joint. Figure 3 is a detailed assembly view of the heat exchanger and burner. Figure 4 is a sectional view of the heat exchanger. With reference to Figure 1, there is shown a hot water storage vessel 10 which is preferably of similar construction to that used with electrical heating. Thus the vessel may be surrounded with suitable insulation 11 and be lined with anti corrosive enamel material known under the trade mark RILSAN. Further details of the vessel are described in our Australian Patent Specification No. 534148 which is hereby incorporated herein by cross reference.The tank includes a conventional pressure and temperature sensitive valve 12. The housing for the vessel is arranged to house a gas fired heat exchanger 13 through which water is circulated under control of the thermostat bulb 14. If the thermostat senses a tank water temperature less than that predetermined the gas burner 17 is ignited to heat the exchanger 13 thereby setting up circulation of the water by thermo syphon effect. The heated water fills the vessel until such time that the thermostat senses the higher than predetermined temperature and the gas flame is extinguished. Water is circulated through pipe 15 and connector 16 during a heating cycle. The connector 16 will be now described in greater detail. With reference to Figure 2 there is shown an apertured body 16 for interconnecting several pipes including a stepped bore 21a, 21b, 21c. Each step is ported 22a, 23a, 24a to communicate with a cold water inlet 22, the heat exchanger inlet 23 and an outlet 24 to drainage respectively. The body has fitted therein a long tube 25 fitted into stepped bore 21b leaving an annular passage 26 to the drain outlet 24. The tube 25 includes a chamfered cut off 25a exposing the open end of the tube to the heat exchanger port 23a. The tube 25 is adapted to extend into the vessel 10 as shown in Figure 1. The open end of the tube is shrouded with a cap 26 to deflect in rushing cold water towards the bottom of the vessel 10. Thus as hot water is drawn from the top of the vessel the cold water level grows at the bottom of the vessel until such time as the thermostat senses colder water and the gas burner 17 is ignited thereby creating a reversal of flow in the valve body 16 to the heat exchanger 13. There is little danger of undesirable hot and cold water mixing in the storage vessel during periods of use.This is brought about by the effect of the increased diameter of the stepped bore 21b imparting a venturi action to the inflowing cold water stream thereby creating a slight vacuum suction effect at the port 23a. Thus water will only flow to the exchanger when the gas is ignited by virtue of the fact that the thermo syphon effect created by the heat exchanger overcomes the venturi action. The tube 25 is fixed into position in the stepped bore by dimple 27. With reference to Figures 3 and 4 there is shown in greater detail the heat exchanger 13. The device includes at least one water supply pipe 30 entering a housing 31 enclosing heat conducting fins 35. The housing includes a burner assembly 32 mounted beneath the fins. The draft of hot gases from the burner are adapted to flow between the fins around the pipe to the flue 33 in the direction of arrows A. The exchanger includes a baffle plate 34 extending radially from the pipe directing the spent gases in a circuitous route around the water pipe and then into the flue. The flue chamber may include preheater pipes 36 connected to exchanger pipes 30. The preheater pipes 36 are heated by the spent flue gases and furthermore absorb heat from the gas burner 17 by surrounding the fire box 17b. Thus there is disclosed a water heating system, a heat exchanger for use in that system and a water connection for use in association with the water heating system.