# Liners for shaped charge warhead and method of making same.

## Abstract
A method for making a liner for a shaped charge warhead comprises explosively welding a sheet of a high density metal to a sheet of a dissimilar, lower density metal to pro duce a laminated sheet in which the bond between the two metals includes a plurality of interlocking wavelets compact ing the laminated sheet by compressing it to reduce its thick ness and also to flatten the interlocking wavelets and forming the laminated sheet into the required shape of the liner. Also described is a shaped liner for a shaped charge warhead comprising an inner layer of a high density metal to be located externally of the warhead, and an outer layer of a dissimilar, lower density metal, to be located internally of the warhead, the two layers being bonded together by a plurality of interlocking wavelets of the two metals.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A method of.making a liner for a shapedcharge warhead, comprising explosively welding a sheet of a high density metal to a sheet of a dissimilar metal to produce a laminated sheet in which the bond between the two metals includes a plurality of interlocking wavelets compacting the laminated sheet by compressing it to reduce its thickness and also to flatten said interlocking wavelets and forming said laminated sheet into the required shape of the liner. 2. The method according to Claim 1, wherein said compacting and forming steps are effected simultaneously. 3. The method according to Claim 2, wherein said compacting and forming steps are effected simultaneously by shear spinning. 4. The method according to any one ofClaims 1 3, wherein said laminated sheet is formed into a right circular cone. 5. The method according to any one ofClaims 1 4, wherein said dissimilar metal is a lowdensity metal. 6. The method according to Claim 1, wherein said bonded sheet is compacted by shear spinning to reduce its thickness by at least one half. 7. A shaped liner for a shaped charge warhead comprising an inner layer, to be located externally of the warhead, which inner layer is of a high density metal and an outer layer, to be located internally of the warhead, which outer layer is of a dissimilar metal bonded to the inner layer by a bond which includes a plurality of interlocking wavelets of the two metals. 8. The shaped liner according to Claim 7, wherein said high density metal is silver, tantalum, depleted uranium, gold, tungsten, or their alloys. 9. The shaped liner according to Claim 7, wherein said outer layer is of copper, steel, or aluminum. 10. A shaped charge warhead including a shaped liner according to Claim 7, said dissimilar metal layer being located internally within the warhead and outwardly of the high density metal layer, which latter layer is located externally of the warhead and inwardly of the dissimilar metal layer.

## Description
The present invention relates to shaped charge warheads, and is particularly directed to the liners e.g., conically shaped liners for such warheads, and to a method of making such liners. It is known that the penetration capability of a shaped charge warhead is proportional to the square root of the density of the liner material. Therefore, heavy metals are more effective for penetration purposes.However, their high cost, the weight added to the warhead in the use of such heavy metals, and sometimes their poor mechanical properties, limit their use as liner materials.The most commonly used materials for such liners are copper, aluminium and steel because of their mechanical properties during dynamical loading and also because of their relatively low cost. It is also known that, during the detonation process, the liner in a shaped charge warhead generates a high velocity penetration jet only from the inner portion of the liner, i.e., the portion on the external side of the charge the remainder of the liner forms a slug which contributes very little, if anything, to the penetration process. It has therefore been proposed that the shaped liner be made of two distinct metals, namely an outer layer of low density material such as copper, serving as the base liner metal and an inner layer of a high density material, such as gold, electroplated over the inner surface of the copper base liner metal.Insofar as we are aware, however, such an electroplating technique for producing a bimetallic liner has been used only for experimental purposes, in studying the penetration capabilities of high density materials, and has not found commercial application because of a number of drawbacks, including the high cost and the special equipment required in producing the liner according to that technique. An object of the present invention is to provide a method of making a liner for a shaped charge warhead having advantages in the above respects. Further objects of the invention are to provide a novel liner, and also a shaped charge warhead including the novel liner. According to one broad aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of making a liner for a shaped charge warhead, comprising explosively welding a sheet of a high density metal to a sheet of a dissimilar metal to produce a laminated sheet in which the bond between the two metals includes a plurality of interlocking wavelets compacting the laminated sheet by compressing it to reduce its thickness and also to flatten the interlocking wavelets and forming the laminated sheet into the required shape of the liner. Particularly good results have been obtained when the compacting and forming steps are effected simultaneously by shear spinning the laminated sheet. The successful use of the above described explosive welding technique for producing the shaped liner was found particularly surprising since it was expected that the wavelets produced at the interface between explosivelywelded metals would create such instabilities because of the high dynamic pressure produced at detonation, as to prevent the proper formation of the high speed jet which effects the penetration. Thus, in the electroplating technique, which was the only bimetallic liner technique previously known to properly produce the penetration jet, the interface between the two bonded metals is substantially flat and without the wavelets produced in explosive welding.It was surprisingly found1 however, that theproduction of such wavelets in the explosive welding step, and the flattening of these wavelets in the subsequent shear spinning step, not only enhanced the bond between the two metals, but also during the detonation process produced a well defined, highly penetrating, high speed jet of the high density metal. The invention thus provides an important advantage over the conventional shaped liner used in shaped charge warheads, in that the invention permits the penetration of shaped charge jets to be greatly increased without an increase,or with only a slight increase, in the warhead weight. The invention also provides advantages over the previously proposed electroplating technique for producing such liners particularly in that the new technique is not restricted to the use of materials which can be electroplated and moreover, it does not require the special equipment needed for electroplating.Thus, whereas the previously proposed electroplating technique was used, insofar as we are aware, only for experimental purposes in studying the pentration capabilities of high density materials, the technique of the present invention has been found to be a practical way of producing such shaped liners at low cost. The invention also provides a shaped liner made in accordance with the above described technique, and a shaped charge warhead constructed with such liners. Further features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description below. The invention is herein described, by way of example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein Fig. 1 is a side elevational view, partly in section, illustrating one form of shaped charge warhead including a liner, in this case a conical liner, constructed in accordance with the present invention Fig. 2 illustrates the formation of the penetration jet and the slug as a result of the detonation of the warhead of Fig. 1 Fig. 3 illustrates a laminated double layer sheet for use in making the conical liner in the shaped charge warhead of Fig. 1 Fig. 4 illustrates the manner of making the laminated sheet of Fig. 3 by explosive welding Fig. 5 illustrates the shear spinning step applied to the laminated sheet of Fig. 2, for compacting the sheet and forming it into the conical liner illustrated in Fig. 1 Fig. 6 is a macrograph multiplication of 60x of the interface between the two bonded metal layers in the laminated sheet of Fig. 3 before compaction and forming by the shear spinning step and Fig. 7 is a macrograph corresponding to that ofFig. 6, but showing the interface after the laminated sheet has been compacted and formed by the shear spinning step. With reference first to Fig. 1, there is illustrated a shaped charge warhead, generally designated 2, including a charge 4 within a cylindrical shell 6 which may be omitted , a detonator 8 at one end, and a shaped conical liner, generally designated 10, at the opposite end.Conical liner 10 is constituted of two metal layers, namely a layer 12, which is the outer layer of the cone but is internally of the warhead 2, this layer 12 being preferably of a low density metal and b layer 14, which is the inner layer of the cone but the external layer of the warhead, this layer 14 being of a dissimilar, highdensity metal. Fig. 2 illustrates what happens to the conical liner 10 upon detonation of the warhead charge 4. Thus, the inner high density layer 14 of the cone forms a high velocity pentration jet 14 which contributes most to the penetration of the charge, whereas the outer layer 12 of the cone forms the slug 12 which contributes very little to the penetration. It will thus be seen that by making the inner layer of the cone of high density metal, and the outer layer 12 of low density metal, the penetration of the shaped charge warhead 2 is significantly increased without an increase t or with only a very little increase,, in the total weight of the warhead. Fig. 3 illustrates the laminated sheet in its initial flat condition , and therefore designated 101, which is used for making the conical liner 10 of Fig.1, which flat laminated sheet includes the two layers, namely the lower density metal layer 12i and the highdensity metaly layer 14i. Fig. 4 illustrates the method of making the laminated sheet lOi of Fig. 3. Thus, as shown in Fig. 4, the sheet 14i of highdensity metal which sheet in this example is the base plate is placed against a heavy anvil 20 and the sheet 12i of low density metal which sheet in this example is the flier plate is placed to overlie the highdensity metal sheet 14i, but is spaced therefrom by a plurality of stand off spacer elements 22. These elements are spaced around the periphery between sheets 14i and 12i, and may be made of a rlastic foam or the like, such as polystyrene foam, which is disintegrated during the explosive welding process. Over the upper, low density sheet 12i is placed an explosive charge 24 within a container 26.The detonation of charge 24 produces an exceptionally high pressure which forces the low density metal sheet 12i into intimate engagement with the high density metal sheet 14i, resulting in the disintegration of the standoff spacer elements 22 initially placed peripherally between the two sheets. The interface between the two explosively welded sheets 12i and 14i is formed, by the high pressures produced by the explosion, with a plurality of interlocking wavelets of the two metals1 as will be described more particularly below with respect to the macrographs of Figs. 6 and 7, which wavelets produce a very intimate bonding of the two layers in the laminated sheet 10 . The laminated sheet lOc is then subjected to a shear spinning process, as illustrated in Fig. 5, which compacts the laminated sheet by compressing it to reduce its thickness, and also to flatten the interlocking wavelets at the same time, the laminated sheet is formed into the right circular conical shape of the liner 10 in Fig. 1. Thus, the laminated sheet 101, in its flat condition, is placed against the apex of a conical mandrel 30 in a spinning lathe, and is held against the apex of the mandrel by one or more rollers 32 en gaging the laminated sheet around the apex of the mandrel. Back up ring 34 engages the opposite face of the laminated sheet, which back up ring is movable in the axial direction along the outer face of the mandrel as guided by back up pins 36. During the shearspinning process, mandrel 30 is rotated about its axis rollers 32 are likewise rotated about their axes, and at the same time are moved in the radial direction of the mandrel as relative movement in the axial direction is effected between the mandrel and the rollers.Thus, the rollers 32 simultaneously compress the laminated sheet 10i, reducing the thickness of its two layers 12i and 14i, and at the same time form the sheet into the conical configuration of the mandrel 30. Such shear spinning techniques and apparatus are known, and therefore further details of the construction and operation of this apparatus are not considered essential here. In Fig. 5, the upper roller, designated 32, its back up ring 34, and back up pin 36, and the thickness of the laminated sheet 10 between that roller and back up ring 34, illustrate the positions of the parts and the form and thickness of the laminated sheet at the beginning of the shear spinning process whereas the lower roller designated 32 , its back up plate 34 , back up pin 36 , and the lower part of the laminated sheet 10 illustrate the position of the parts and the thickness and form of the laminated sheet at the end of the shear spinning process. Upon the completion of this process, the outer marginal rim 10 of the laminated sheet is trimmed away to provide the conical liner 10 illustrated in Fig. 1. Examples of metals which may be used as the high density layer 14 include tantalum, silver, depleted uranium, gold, and tungsten and their alloys and examples of metals which may be used as the low density layer 12 include copper, aluminum, and steel. As one example, the low density metal layer 12 may be copper having an initial thickness of 4 mm. the high density metal layer 14 may be of tantalum having an initial thickness of 1.25 mm. and the shear spinning process may reduce the thickness of both about one half when the liner is formed with a cone angle of 600. The results of this example are illustrated in Figs. 6 and 7, both at a magnification of 60X. Fig. 6 illustrates the condition of the interface before the shear spinning step and Fig. 7 illustrates the condition of the interface after the shear spinning step. Thus, as shown in Fig. 6, the initial thickness of the high density metal layer 14i is indicated at to and the height of the wavelets 40, interlocking the two metal layers 12i and 14i, is indicated at h . As a 0 result of the shear spinning step, the height of the high density metal layer 14 is reduced to t and the height of the wavelets 40 is reduced to h, wherein t to sina, and h h0.sin. In this example, wherein a 300 the total cone angle being 600 , t 1 2 toe and h l 2 h0. The so produced liner was used as the conical liner 10 in the shaped charge warhead 2 illustrated inFig. 1, and upon detonation of the charge, it was found that the liner produced a well defined high velocity penetration jet as illustrated at 14 in Fig. 2, whereas the low density metal layer produced the slug 12 illustrated in Fig. 2. While the invention has been described with respect to one preferred embodiment, it will be appreciated that many other variations, modifications, and applications of the invention may be made.