# THREAD MEASUREMENT TOOL

## Claims
Gewindemeßwerkzeug mit einer Sensoranordnung 44 und Mitteln 42, 50, 40, 56, 53, 54 zum Fixieren der Sensoranordnung 44 an dem Gewinde 22 eines Rohrstückes 24, 24

## Description
This invention relates to devices for inspection and measurement of pipe threads and, more particularly, to the inspection of pipe threads utilized in oil drilling equipment to determine that such threads are within tolerances. Threaded couplings and the threaded end portions of pipes are used for joining pipes together in numerous situations ranging from applications in the home to industrial applications. In certain situations, particularly in the case of oil drilling equipment, pipes having a relatively large diameter and long lengths are employed. Such pipes require a correspondingly large area of thread to ensure adequate strength to a threaded joint. To ensure ease of joining such pipes, and to insure that the resulting joints will have adequate strength and will not leak, it is essential that the threads be made with sufficient precision to allow the threaded end portion of a pipe to be properly threaded into a coupling. A problem arises with respect to the inspection process for determining that adequate precision is present in the pipe thread, namely, that the process is not accomplished as readily as would be desired and that, furthermore, not all measurement parameters can be inspected by existing inspection equipment. The parameters of a thread which are useful in determining the accuracy of fit in a joint are discussed in the American Petroleum Institute Specification 5B. These include lead error, thread height error, pitch line non linearity, average taper and interval taper. Reference is made to pp 2 14 of the API Specification for a discussion of the latter two parameters. The problem is compounded in that, heretofore, more than one article of measuring equipment needed to be employed in the measurement of these parameters while no commercially available equipment appears to be available for measurement of the pitch line non linearity. The following U.S. Patents are exemplary of the state of the art. A portable thread measuring device for measuring the distance of a pipe thread to the end of the pipe is taught in the Horton 4,184,265. Devices for measuring taper are shown in Dietrich 3,861,047, Mittenbergs 3,047,960 and Possati 4,139,947. A device for measurement of pitch of a thread is taught in Kaifesh 3,827,154, Peterson 2,937,458, Schasteen 4,202,109 and Heslin 3,271,872. A device for gauging the shape of threads is taught in Johnson 3,318,011. Devices for measuring thread diameter are taught in Reish 3,432,935. The foregoing problem is overcome by measuring inspection apparatus which incorporates the invention as set out in claim 1 so as to provide for the measurement and tolerance inspection of all of the foregoing parameters of pipe thread. The pre characterizing section of claim 1 is based on US A 4184265. It is thus an object of the invention to provide a measurement tool which is readily attached to a pipe thread to provide a set of readings of the foregoing parameters after which the tool is readily detached from the pipe to permit use of the pipe. Such readings can be taken simultaneously. The tool is able to take a multiplicity of thread measurements within the confines of one instrument. The tool also has the advantage of taking a wide range of pipe sizes and measuring both internal and external threads. The tool is capable of very accurate readings without a good deal of operator experience since it is an automatic system once properly set on the threads and activated and is a hands off system. This is because the operator is not required to have direct interaction with the sensor assembly during the taking of measurements. In fact, the operator need not have any direct interaction with the tool as a whole, once installed and activated, during the measurement phase. Furthermore, the pipe being measured does not need to be in a horizontal position for reliable readings since it can be measured in situ, or in its existing position. In accordance with the invention, the measurement tool comprises a pair of arms configured as jaws for gripping the pipe or coupling, each arm having a handle on its end. One of the jaws contacts the outside surface of the threaded portion of a pipe or coupling while the other jaw contacts the inner surface of the pipe or coupling. The tool is readily held by its handle and the jaws are readily opened and closed to facilitate manual attachment and detachment of the tool from the thread being inspected. In one embodiment, the tool includes an assembly of sensors and probes for detecting the positions of portions of the pipe thread. The sensor assembly is mounted on one of the jaws which also serves as a base for an inclinometer. The second jaw pivotably connects with the first jaw and terminates in a pair of contacts or legs which are placed against the other surface of the pipe wall to secure the tool from wobbling. The first jaw includes a pair of contacts or legs which are spaced apart in a direction parallel to the axis of the pipe being measured so as to secure the tool from any rocking motion relative to the pipe or coupling. The two legs on the first jaw and the two legs on the second jaw work in collaboration to assure stable support of the tool on the pipe. Average thread taper is measured by the use of an inclinometer that is mounted on the first jaw. Taper measurement requires that two measurements be taken on the pipe thread a first in the vicinity of the top of the pipe thread and a second in the vicinity of the bottom of the pipe thread. These two readings of the inclinometer are then subtracted from one another to provide the true taper of the thread. As is well known, such taper facilitates the insertion of the threaded end portion of a pipe into a threaded coupling. Proper tolerances of such taper aids in the fitting of the pipe to the coupling. Thread height error is obtained by a set of probes which comprise rod shaped members slidably mounted within a cylindrical housing for movement perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the pipe. The probes are pointed for insertion into the troughs of the threads. The probes are connected with transducers which measure such motion. In addition, each probe is mounted by a slide to the base of the first jaw so as to permit lateral, or transverse, motion in a direction generally parallel to the axis of the pipe for alignment of the terminus or tip of a probe with the low point of a trough. By use of more than one of the height measuring probes, it is possible to obtain a plurality of such measurements simultaneously for a more accurate determination of the thread height at various spaced intervals along the threaded length. Additional probes are mounted by slides to the base of the first jaw for both longitudinal motion in a direction normal to the axis of the pipe as well as transverse motion in a direction parallel to the axis of the pipe. These additional probes are employed with transducers for measuring the transverse motion so as to obtain the value of the lead error of the thread. The probes utilized in the lead error measurement are terminated in ball spherical contacts which set within the troughs of the thread. The legs which support the first jaw along the thread are provided with ball contacts for insertion within the thread troughs. To this end, one of these legs is mounted in a sliding fashion to the first jaw so as to accommodate and lead error that might exist between these threads. The non linearity of pitch line of the thread is obtained by the use of probes displaceable in a direction normal or radial to the axis of the pipe which are terminated in ball type contacts. For this purpose, it is advantageous to employ the two end legs for providing reference values of height at the ends of the base of the first jaw with the probes being utilized to provide intermediary values of radial displacement. Transducers are used to sense the displacement of the probes in the radial direction to provide a set of electrical signals representing the deviation of the pitch line from a straight line drawn between the two end legs. Such deviation is most useful in determining whether the thread of the pipe and the thread of the coupling will mate properly, or whether there will be high spots causing binding or low spots causing too loose a fitting with the ensuing loss of integrity and leakage. A further feature in the construction of the assembly of the probes is the interleaving of the positions of the height error measurement probes with the lead error measurement probes within a plane containing the axis of the pipe so as to provide for a better distribution of the measurement sites for each of the foregoing measurements. To facilitate the ensuing disclosure of the invention, the invention will be described with reference to taking measurements principally of the external thread of a pipe. However, it should be understood that the tool is not limited to external thread application. The tool is equally applicable to taking the same measurements on internally threaded pipe. Indeed, it is considered an important aspect of the tool that it can be used randomly for measuring internally or externally threaded pipes without any change whatsoever to the tool. The aforementioned aspects and other features of the invention are explained in the following description taken in connection with the accompanying drawing wherein Figure 1 shows a stylized view of a thread measurement system 20 for measurement of the characteristics of the thread 22 of a pipe 24. The system 20 includes a measurement tool 26 which incorporates the invention and comprises a set of probes 28 which contact the thread 22 for measuring the thread characteristics. Also included in the system 20 is a console 30 comprising a display 32 which presents information such as the characteristic being measured and the value of the measurement under control of push buttons of a keyboard 34 on the console 30. Also included in the console 30 is a signal processor 36 which is electrically connected via cables 37 38 to the tool 26 for extracting data from the signals detected by the probes 28. The data is coupled from the processor 36 to the display 32 for presentation to an operator of the system 20. A printer can also be coupled with the console to create a hard copy record of the measurements. A sample record produced by such a printer in conformance with the measurements of the various parameters as described hereinafter is shown in Figure 18. The tool 26 measures the following characteristics of the thread 22 the taper, the lead error, the height error, and the non linearity of the pitch line. Taper is the increase in the pitch diameter of the thread, in inches per foot, measured within an axial plane of the pipe 24. Lead is the distance from a point on a thread turn to a corresponding point on the next thread turn measured in an axial plane of the pipe 24 parallel to the longitudinal axis of the pipe. Height is the distance between the crest and the root, or trough, measured in an axial plane of the pipe 24 normal or perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the pipe. These measurements and others may be taken simultaneously and, furthermore, may be taken while the pipe is in situ that is, in its existing position such as being stacked for storage. As mentioned above, this description of the construction and operation of the tool 26 is being presented principally with respect to the measurement of the external thread of a pipe, it being understood that this description applies in an analogous fashion to the internal thread of a coupling as shown in Figure 14d . The tool 26 is formed as a set of two arms which are hinged about a pivot 40 whereby the two arms can grip the thread 22 in the manner of a pair of jaws. The upper arm or jaw is formed as a base 42 which supports a sensor assembly 44 and an inclinometer 46, and terminates in a handle 48. The lower arm or jaw 50 terminates at its back end in a handle 52 opposite the handle 48. The front end of the jaw 50, as may be seen in a cut away portion of the pipe 24, supports a pair of contacts 53 54 which, in this embodiment, have a rounded form and are spaced apart along a transverse plane of the pipe 24 for contacting the inner surface of the threaded portion of the pipe 24. A spring 56 is disposed between the base 42 and the lower jaw 50 for urging these two together for gripping the thread 22. Figure 13 shows one manner in which the tool is supported for taking measurements on an externally threaded pipe. Probes 28 are supported by base 42 and are aligned in a plane on one side of the pipe wall, the thread side, while contacts 53 and 54 or loading balls are supported by lower arm or jaw 50 of the tool on the other side of the pipe wall, the non threaded side. Contacts 53 and 54 are located so as to substantially equalize the load on probe 28A and 28G. Located between probes 28A and 28G to eliminate any possibility of the tool rocking while measurements are being taken is eliminated. Figures 14a and b are views of the tool installed on external and internal pipe threads 24 and 24 , respectively. It is seen that such an arrangement of contacts 53 and 54 with the probes has advantages when both internal and external threads are to be measured by the same tool. As seen in Figures 14c and d, the distance D and D are nearly identical due to the motion of locating support and probes 28A and 28G in the plane of measuring probes 28B, C, D, E, and F. Referring again to Figure 1, the overall size of the tool 26 is sufficiently small so as to be readily carried about by a person measuring the pipe 24. The console 30 can be fabricated as a relatively large, stand alone console, or, preferably can be fabricated as a miniaturized portable console that may be carried about with the tool 26 in a carrying case not shown . The system 20 requires only that the person manually attach the tool 26 to the thread 22, and that he signify, via the keyboard 34, the values of relevant parameters and what measurements are to be presented on the display 32. Such automatic operation of the measuring steps enables very accurate readings to be taken each time the tool is used and operator experience does not enter as a factor into such accuracy. In this respect, the tool is a hands off system. In accordance with the invention, the set of probes 28 extend downwardly from the sensor assembly 44 within an axial plane of the pipe 24 to contact the thread 22. The end ones of the probes 28A and 28G serve as legs for support of the base 42 and the assembly 44 upon the thread 22 to counteract the force of the spring 56. A horizontal bumper probe 58 extends from a transducer 60 supported beneath the base 42 and abuts the end of the pipe 24 for designating the position of the tool 26 relative to the end of the pipe. Probe 58, which can be similar to probes 28B, D and F, provides standoff for the tool when being located on the pipe by the operator. The standoff probe determines how far from the end of the pipe the first probe for example, probe 28A in Figure 2, is located. A description of how the stand off system operates as the operator places the tool onto a pipe is now described. The operator grasps handles 48 and 52 Figure 1 and squeezes them together so as to open jaws 42 and 50. The operator then places the open jaws onto the area of the pipe carrying the thread to be measured. The jaw portion of the tool is placed around the pipe wall, the base 42 of the first jaw adjacent the threaded or outside portion of the pipe and the contacts 53 54 of the jaw adjacent the inside wall of the pipe in this embodiment. The jaw portion is slipped over the end of the pipe wall by the operator until stand off pin 250 contacts the end of the pipe. Stand off pin 250, which can be a pair of pins as shown in partial cutaway fashion in Figures 17a c, is fixedly mounted to base 42. The stand off transducer 60 and bumper probes 58 shown in a general fashion in Figure 1 can be of any suitable type such as that depicted in Figures 17a c. For instance, transducer 258 can be an LVDT type similar to transducer 78 shown in Figure 2 which has a core attached to probe tip 260, or ball 260, by rod 262. The transducer 258 is rigidly mounted onto bracket 256 which in turn is rigidly mounted onto base 42. It is noted that the mechanism and pipe are not necessarily drawn to scale in Figures 17a c. In addition to LVDT 258, the stand off mechanism shown in Figures 17a c also includes a stand off member 252 which is slideable relative to stand off pin 250 as depicted by the arrows. Stand off member 252 has a pipe contact portion 251 which can be biased by LVDT probe ball 260 generally located on the right side of standoff pin 250 Figures 17a and 17b as the tool is being placed on the pipe. Stand off member 252 is adapted to be translatable through slide 254 which is rigidly mounted on base 42. Slide 254 can be any suitable type such as the slide 215 depicted in Figure 4. As stand off pin 250 approaches the end of the pipe, portion 251 of stand off member 252 is located in a position just ahead, or to the right in Figures 17a c, of stand off pin 250, being maintained in this position by probe ball 260. Thus, stand off member 252 first contacts the end of the pipe as the operator installs the tool. Then, as the operator places the tool farther onto the pipe, stand off pin 250 will come into contact with the end of the pipe thereby preventing any further movement of the tool in such direction. During this time, portion 251 of stand off member 250 is pushed to the left relative to the stand off pin and base by the pipe end enabling portion 251 of member 252 to reach the position shown in Figure 17b. After the stand off pin contacts the end of the pipe, the operator releases his grip on handles 48 and 52 allowing the jaws to come together and seat themselves on the pipe. As this occurs, the tool s fixed probe, such as probe 28a, seats itself into an adjacent trough of the thread. If the position of the ball probe 260 falls outside of an established range when probe 28a seats itself in the trough of the thread, then the operator receives a signal to reposition the tool. In this case, transducer input data is void and the program stops until the tool is properly repositioned within the measuring range. Figure 17a represents the position of the standoff mechanism when the tool is positioned properly. Figures 17b and 17c represent out of range conditions. The Z dimension shown in Figure 17a is the distance from the nose of the pipe to the fixed probe 28a resting or seated in a good thread trough. In the case where out of range conditions exist 17b 17c , when the operator repositions the tool, the fixed probe 28a moves accordingly. As an example of the three conditions shown in Figures 17a c, it is assumed that the fixed dimension is 0.500 inches. In Figure 17a, Z is equal to or greater than 0.320 inches and equal to or less than 0.500 inches. In Figure 17b, the standoff mechanism is out of range since Z is greater than 0.500 inches. In Figure 17c, the standoff mechanism is also out of range since Z is less than 0.320 inches. All dimensions recited above are approximate 1 inch 25.4 mm. Upon receiving the signal to reposition the tool, the operator must move the tool either left or right relative to the pipe Figures 17a c . Assuming the condition shown in Figure 17b exists, the operator must move the tool to the left relative to the pipe. As the operator repositions the tool, the fixed probe will move to the left towards the end of the pipe to seat itself, such as in the next trough. In so doing, the tool, base 42 and stand off pin 250 move to the left from the position shown in Figure 17b to the position shown in Figure 17a. As stand off pin 250 moves to the left, the LVDT which biases ball tip 260 to the right keeps stand off member 252, particularly portion 251, in contact with the end of the pipe. There is sufficient stroke in the LVDT to accommodate probe 28a moving one full thread spacing. The position that ball tip 260 reaches as the tool is shifted to the left to seat the fixed probe in the trough is measured by the core of the LVDT 258. This determines how far from the end of the pipe the fixed probe, such as probe 28a, is located. As the fixed probe seats itself in the trough, the other probes also seat themselves in adjacent troughs and contacts 53 54 Figure 1 come into contact with the other side of the pipe wall. At this time, the tool is fully installed on the pipe in a proper manner and the operator activates the electronic control unit to take the thread measurements which may be printed out of a printer in the hard copy form, e.g., paper, shown in Figure 18. Figure 2 shows an enlarged view of one embodiment of the sensor assembly 44 previously described with reference to Figure 1. In this embodiment, there are seven probes which are further identified by the legends A G. The probe 28A is the end probe fixed in position on base 42 and the probe 28G is an axially movable end probe moves generally in the direction of the pipe axis , these two probes serving as supporting legs as was noted with respect to Figure 1. Probes 28A and 28G contact the threads and, although shown as end probes in Figure 2, can be located in any convenient position relative to each other and relative to the other probes on the tool as long as they can provide their intended support function. The probe 28G is secured to the base 42 by means of a slide 64 which permits axial displacement in a general direction noted by the arrow. The displacement is generally in the axial plane of the pipe 24 and slides suitable for use as the slide 64 are available commercially. The probes 28A and 28G are provided with ball points 66 to facilitate location of the probes 28A and 28G within the troughs of the thread 22. The slide 64 permits the probe 28G to be displaced sideways permitting alignment of the probes 28A and 28G with the precise spacing actually existing between troughs of the thread 22. Thereby, the probes 28A and 28G can serve as legs for securely supporting the base 42 and the assembly 44 upon the thread 22. The assembly 44 further comprises an upper deck 68 supported by posts 70 upon the base 42. The probes 28B F pass through enlarged apertures 62 in both the base 42 and the deck 68. The probes 28B F are supported by slides 64 disposed in alternating fashion upon the base 42 and the deck 68, this alternating arrangement providing space for implacement of the slides 64 among the probes 28B F. Each of the slides 64 permits sideways movement of their respective probes 28 while holding the housings 72 of the respective probes 28 against vertical motion relative to the base 42. Each of the probes 28B F include an extensible rod which can move vertically within the respective housing 72 for engagement of the probes with the thread 22. The tips of all the probes shown in the embodiment of Figure 2, with the exception of probe 28A, can move in the X direction. The tips of all the probes of Figure 2, with the exception of probes 28A and 28G, can also move in the Y direction. The amount of tip movement in the X direction is measured for probes 28B, 28D, 28F and 28G. The amount of tip movement in the Y direction is measured for probes 28B F. The probes 28B, 28D and 28F are each provided with the ball points 66 so as to be centered within the troughs of the thread 22 at the pitch line. The probes 28C and 28E are provided with retractable points 76 to be described further hereinafter for contacting the root, or base, of the respective troughs upon making contact with the thread 22. The slides 64 permit the points 76 to be displaced sideways or parallel to the axis of the pipe so as to find the roots of the thread 22. The assembly 44 further comprises a set of transducers 79, individual ones of which are connected to respective ones of the probes 28B, 28D, 28F and 28G for detecting the amount of sideways displacement and, therefore, providing data as to the precise location of each of these probes. The transducers 78 and 79 can be of any suitable type, such as an LVDT or Linear Variable Differential Transformer which is a standard device used in measurement applications. The AG Series transducer sold by Sangamo Transducers of Grand Island, N.Y. is one type suitable for this application. They provide electric signals via lines 78a and 79a to the processor 36, these signals being linearly related to the displacement of the respective probes 28 generally in or perpendicular to the axial plane of the pipe 24. The transducers 78 and 79 are shown schematically in Figure 2. Transducers 79 may be mounted in staggered fashion upon the base 42 and the deck 68 so as to provide space for all the transducers among the probes 28 and the slides 64. All of the probes 28 are disposed along a common axial plane which preferably bisects the distance between the two contacts 53 54 Figures 1, 13, and 14 to provide for a stable mounting of the assembly 44 upon the thread 22, the contacts 53 54 preventing a lateral rocking while the legs probes 28A and 28G preventing a longitudinal rocking. Each of the probes 28B F contain electric leads which fan into the cable 38 for connection of the signals of these probes to the signal processor 36. With reference now to Figures 3, 4, and 5, there is provided a more detailed description of the configuration of the linear displacement transducers employed in the transducers 78 and 79 as well as in the probes 28B F. The construction of probes 28C and 28E, which measure thread height is shown in detail in Figure 3. The probe assembly has a floating tip 202 which seats into the root trough of the thread assembly. As the tool is placed on the pipe thread, reference surface 204 rests or seats itself on the top or crest of the thread. Surface 204 is on floating thread crest standoff collar 206. Collar 206 is mounted on LVDT case 208, such as by the screw shown, which contains LVDT core 210 which generates a signal indicative of the thread height error. Tip 202 is connected to the LVDT core 210 so that after collar 206 is positioned on the thread top, the tip seats itself in the thread trough. The tip s position locates the LVDT core relative to its case and generates the thread height error signal, a zero signal indicating that the thread height has no error therein. The LVDT case 208 is slideably mounted on an LVDT guide 212, such as by a slip fit, so that as the tool is placed on the pipe, collar 206 adjusts itself relative to guide 212 to come to rest on top of the threads. Guide 212, which is mounted on the frame of the tool, such as to base 42 or upper deck 68, has a hollow housing 211. The guide does not move in the vertical direction relative to the base 42. The LVDT case 208 is securely mounted to bearing 209 which is able to ride up and down inside the hollow of the guide. Guide 212 also contains a spring 207 which biases the LVDT case 208 downward towards the pipe, the upper and lower limits of the case s movement, or its stroke, being limited by dog 205 in slot 203 of the guide. Spring 207 is held in the guide by adjustable spring bushing 201. Figure 4 is an illustration of the probe configuration that is used for probes 28 B, D, F which are ball probes as opposed to pointed probes. Here, the LVDT case 211 is securely mounted against movement in the vertical direction to the frame of the tool, such as on base 42 or deck 68. The probe ball is attached to the LVDT core 210 see fig.3 so that the position of LVDT core 210 relative to LVDT case 211 is determined by the position at which the ball comes to rest on the pipe. This position generates a signal, as in Figure 3, which indicates the pitch line error, a zero signal meaning that the pitch line has no error. The connecting member above the ball has a protective cover 214. Figure 4 also illustrates the manner in which the probe is mounted for sideways movement, if needed, to locate ball 213 into the trough of the thread. Ball slide or positioning assemblies 215 are fixedly mounted on the frame of the tool, such as on deck 42 or deck 68, so that such motion can be accomplished. Any suitable ball slide or positioning slide assemblies can be used for this purpose such as those supplied by Del Tron Precision, Inc., of Brookfield, CT. In the configuration shown in Figure 4, the slide assemblies 215 are mounted onto the frame of the tool to provide sideways horizontal motion to the probes while LVDT case 211 is fixed to a member 42a which is mounted on the slide assemblies 215. In this manner, the LVDT case 211 is restrained from vertical movement relative to the frame of the tool, but can adjust itself horizontally or generally sideways of the frame to enable the probe tip or ball to seat itself in the trough of the thread. A similar arrangement for sideways movement can be used for probes 28B G. Ball probe 28A is fixed to the frame of the tool, such as to base 42 as shown in Figure 2, and its ball 66 is not permitted to move up or down or sideways relative to the tool since, in addition to being a support leg, it provides a fixed reference position for the tool when it seats itself into the trough of a thread. Ball probe 58, which acts as a bumper probe, as described earlier, is connected to an LVDT unit which is also tied into the signal processor 36. The standoff pin places probe 28A into the vicinity of a full thread such as the first full thread on the pipe as the tool is placed on the pipe by the operator. The ball of probe 28A will slide down into the actual location of the trough of the first full thread as the operator releases his grip on the handles 48 and 52. Since probe 28A is fixed to the tool without any movement permitted therebetween, as ball 66 of probe 28A is shifted sideways to seat itself in the trough of the first full thread, it also shifts the entire tool with it. Once probe 28A is properly seated, LVDT 60 is relied upon to provide an accurate reading of standoff that is, the distance between the end of the pipe and first full thread. Also, as the operator releases his grip on handles 48 and 52, the other probes 28B G seat themselves in the troughs of threads, each being able to move sideways as needed to seat properly in the adjacent thread trough by virtue of its slide positioning assembly. Referring again to Figures 1 and 2, it is seen that the tool also has an inclinometer located on base 42. This is used to determine average thread taper. Any suitable type of inclinometer may be used for this purpose for instance, an inclinometer from Transducers and Systems, Inc. of Branford, CT which is capable of operating in upright and inverted positions. Figures 5a 5b are intended to be used together for the purposes of the following description. Figure 5a is a very simplistic illustration of the tool shown in Figure 2, but emphasizing the probes, LVDTs and inclinometer. It is to be understood that the transducers 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 10 of Figures 5a b are equivalent to the transducers LVDTs 79B, 79D, 79F, 79G, 78B, 78D, 78F, 78C and 78E, respectively, in Figure 2. Transducer 4 in Figures 5a b is equivalent to LVDT 60 in Figure 1. Inclinometer 11 in Figures 5a b is equivalent to inclinometer 46 of Figures 1 2. The relationship between the transducers and probes in the tool and the various aspects of the thread being measured are clearly associated in Figure 5b. It is seen that all of the transducers are of the LVDT type in this embodiment. It is also noted that transducers 1 3 measure the lead error, X₁, X₂ and X₃ transducer 4 measures the standoff position, X₄ transducer 5 measures the cumulative lead error, X₅ transducers 6 8 measure the pitch line deviation or non linearity of the pitch line, over four intervals of the thread, Y₁, Y₂ and Y₃ and transducers 9 and 10 measure the thread height error, H₁ and H₂. Average taper, I, is measured by inclinometer 11. Comparing Figures 3 and 4 to Figure 2, it is noted that the structure of Figure 3 is used with probes 28C and 28E while the structure of Figure 4 is used with probes 28B, 28D and 28F. Thus, the reference surface 204 of the collar 206 of the thread height measuring assembly in Figure 3 contacts the crests of the thread 22 while the point 76 is urged further into the root of the thread 22. The electrical signals of the transducers 78C and 78E are operatively connected to probes 28C and 28E and indicate the displacement of the point 76 relative to the collar 206 and case 208 and, accordingly, the height error of the thread 22. In the case of the probes 28B, 28D and 28F, the transducers 84 are more directly supported by the slides 64. The location of a trough of the thread 22, as sensed by a ball point 66, relative to the base 42 is indicated by the output signals of each of the transducers 78B, 78D and 78F of the probes 28B, 28D and 28F, respectively. It is noted that with respect to the probes 28B, 28D and 28F, the base 42 serves as a reference plane due to the supporting of the base 42 upon the probes 28A and 28G. A better appreciation of the thread measuring technique provided by the tool in accordance with the invention can be had by reference to Figures 7 to 11 in conjunction with the following description. All types of threads can be measured with the tool for example, pipe threads, screw threads, helical cams, etc. However, for the purposes of this description, the measurement technique is described in conjunction with 8 round thread as set out in Supplement 1 to API Std 5B Tenth Edition Specification for Threading, Gaging, and Thread Inspection of Casing, Tubing and Line Pipe Threads, issued on March, 1980 by the American Petroleum Institute, Production Department, 211 N. Ervay, Suite 1700, Dallas, TX 75201. Table 2.9, page 11, of this specification contains a graphical depiction of 8 Round thread profile. Figure 7 depicts the same thread in an abbreviated graphical form for clarity in conjunction with this disclosure. Thread taper is defined as the increase in pitch diameter of the thread in inches per foot of thread. Thread lead is defined as the distance from a point on the thread turn to a corresponding point on the next thread turn measured parallel to the thread axis and shown as X₁ in Figure 7. Thread height is the distance between the crest and root normal to the axis of the pipe and depicted as H₁ in Figure 7. Figure 8, which is similar to Figure 7, shows how the ball probes used in the tool interact with the threads when placed in the troughs of the threads for taking a measurement. The size of the ball is matched to the type of thread being measured and the probe contacts the thread flank on the pitch line as shown. The measurement of pitch line deviation is possible by the tool in addition to taper, lead error and height error measurements. Pitch line deviation or non linearity of pitch line, is defined as the deviation of the pitch line from a straight line drawn between the ends of the interval of threads measured by the tool. From top and bottom pitch line or diameter deviation readings taken by the probes on the tool, a profile of the pitch line can be developed. No other method of accomplishing a true profile of the pipe pitch line is known other than rotating the pipe on a contour profilometer which is impractical in most cases. As shown in Figure 9, a hypothetical 8 Round pipe having external threads is being measured by the tool. In this case, the tool is shown as having four segments or intervals over which the pitch line deviation is being measured, the intervals being designated 1st through 4th. Each interval is 25.4 mm one inch in length and since, in this embodiment, 8 round thread is being measured, there are eight full threads in each interval. Figure 9 depicts a theoretical condition for the pitch line that is, there is absolutely no pitch line deviation and the pitch line is linear. Figure 10, on the other hand, depicts the same three intervals being measured in a pipe thread wherein there is pitch line deviation. The theoretical or perfect pitch line is also shown in Figure 10 for reference purposes. In both Figures 9 and 10, the two readings carried out by the tool are on the top and bottom of the pipe and are so marked top reading and bottom reading . The tool readings obtained from the four intervals determine the non linearity of the pitch line and can create a profile of the actual pitch line which Figure 10 essentially represents. One tool reading may be taken for lead error, thread height error, and pitch line deviation at any circumferential location on the pipe measured. When pipe thread taper is to be also measured, there must be two readings taken. The second reading is angularly displaced from the first. For instance, the first and second readings can be generally opposite one another. Figure 6 depicts the approach of measuring average taper, the pipe being measured in this embodiment having an external thread. The pipe length does not have to be in a horizontal position for accurate measurements to be taken. The tool can be placed on the pipe in any convenient position to take measurements. The tool, for example, may be installed on the pipe in the vicinity of the top dead center and bottom dead center positions, the 12 6 o clock positions, respectively of the pipe end if measurement of average taper is desired. For instance, the proper positions could be plus or minus 10 degrees, and preferably plus or minus 5 degrees, of top and bottom dead center positions. An instrument for this purpose which can be made part of the tool system is shown schematically in Figure 12. Such an instrument includes sensors which indicate that the instrument is within the proper measuring position on the top and bottom of the pipe. The sensors can be four mercury switches, switches 216 and 217, to control the top reading position of the tool and switch 218 and 219 to control the bottom reading position of the tool. Any suitable type of switch can be used for this purpose for instance, mercury switches having the part number 3677 supplied by Durakool, Inc. The angle of the switches relative to the tool, such as the angle from vertical, can be made adjustable as shown in Figure 12 to precisely control the proper measuring positions of the tool on the pipe. Each switch has a movable contact 220 that only completes the circuit through the switch when the movable contact hits fixed contacts 222a or b.. When this happens, the 9 volts coming into the switches passes through the switch wherein contact was made and carries the voltage to a display, such as LEDS 221, to light them up and indicate an improper positioning of the tool. Thus by properly setting the angle of the switches on the tool so that when the tool is outside the desired range of positions for proper measurement, such as when a top reading is desired, the LED will be lighted by either switch 216 or 217 and the operator can be automatically notified that a repositioning of the tool is required. As can be seen from Figure 12, as the tool is inverted between the top and bottom readings, switches 216 and 217 become inactive and switches 218 and 219 become active. When the tool is switched from bottom to top position readings on the pipe, switches 218 and 219 become inactive and switches 216 and 217 become activated in controlling the LEDs. The tool, when seated on the pipe thread, is supported in position on the thread side by probes 28A and 28G basically. Since probe 28A is fixed relative to the frame, the reading on the inclinometer depends upon the seating of probe 28G. As shown in Figure 6, the inclinometer is read while the tool is in both the top and bottom positions in order to provide an average taper measurement. In the top position, the inclinometer generates a signal equivalent to its angle relative to the horizontal or parallel to the axis of the pipe shown as A in Figure 6. Then, in the bottom position, it generates a second signal again equivalent to its angle relative to the horizontal or parallel to the axis of the pipe and shown as B in the same Figure. These signals are sent to the processor 36 where by are subtracted from one another to thereby produce the average taper of the pipe thread. The computation leading to the average taper T The interval taper is also calculated according to Figure 11. For example, the actual taper over the 1st interval is designated as T 1,1 T 2,1 . It is calculated by the signal processor by taking the reading of transducer 6 and dividing by unity minus the reading from transducer 1 and this quotient is then added to the average taper T Either or both of the transducers could indicate a positive value error or a negative value error. For instance, referring to Figure 10, transducer 6 would indicate a positive value greater than zero since the actual taper for this 1st interval is greater than theoretical or zero value. Conversely, in the 3rd interval, transducers 8 would indicate a negative value less than zero since the actual taper for the 3rd interval is less than theoretical or zero value. This is indicated by Y The chart in Figure 11 also shows the calculations for cumulative lead, lead in each of the intervals, pitch line non linearity and thread height. It is seen that the reading of transducer 5 gives a cumulative lead value the readings of transducers 1, 2, 3 develop the leads for the 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th intervals, respectively the readings of 6, 7, and 8 develop the pitch line non linearity and the readings of transducers 9 and 10 develop the thread height, all in conformance with the computations shown. In order to conform with API specifications, all measuring intervals must be located on 25.4 mm one inch centers. Thread depth transducers should be located on the center line of each interval but also have one inch intervals. It has been found that by using the measuring concept as disclosed herein, the complete range of pipe sizes, for instance, all sizes of 8 round casing with the exception of a few odd sizes can be readily measured by the use of three such tools. Figure 15 shows the three styles of tools that can accomplish such a wide range of pipe sizes. With reference now to Figure 16, there is shown a general description of the signal processor 36. The processor 36 includes a computer 108, a signal conditioning unit 110 a multiplexor 114, and an analog to digital converter 116. Any suitable control system and signal processor can be used in conjunction with the tool. For instance, the system can include a general purpose microprocessor in the electronic module, which together with suitable software such as that in the Appendix herein, will carry out all necessary calculations and control functions. The entire system including the electronic module, tool, display and printer can be made portable and battery operated, if desired. The conditioning unit 110 receives electric signals from the tool 26 via cables. Figure 16 shows cables 37, 38, 118, for example, however, it is understood that other cables for the described signals as well as additional lines for other functions may be added. These signals, after conditioning, are multiplexed by the multiplexer 114 before transmission to the computer 108. The converter 116 converts the signals of the multiplexer 114 from the analog format, as produced by the tool 26, to a digital format for further processing by the computer 108. The computer 108 can be a special purpose computer specifically designed for combining the signals of the various probes 28, the transducers 78 and the transducer 60 for outputting the desired data on the display 32. However, as hereinbefore mentioned, the calculations performed by the computer 108 can also be accomplished by a general purpose computer, or microprocessor, as will be described hereinafter by means of a flow chart suitable for such microprocessor. The thread characteristics of lead error, height error, and deviation of diameter are provided by combining signals of the probes 28. The position of the base 42 relative to the end of the pipe 24 is communicated from the transducer 60 via a cable 118 to the processor 36. The construction and operation of the transducer 60 is the same as that described above with respect to the transducers 79. The inclinometer 46 is used for the measurement of the thread characteristic of taper. The computer 108 has the standard components including timing and control units, address generator, memory, electronic switches shift registers subtractors, and averaging units. In operation, the signal processor 36 receives input signals along the cables 37, 38 and 118, and outputs power for energizing the input windings of the various transducers and any reference input terminals for detection of the magnitude and sense of the voltage from the outputs of one of the transducers. Conditioning unit 110 can include band pass filters for removing any noise which may be present on a transducer signal. The multiplexer 114 is operated under control of the timing unit for electronically sampling successive ones of the transducer signals and for outputting these signals serially to the converter 116. Each of these signals has a magnitude and a sense, and each sample is then converted by the converter 116 to a digital format containing the amplitude and sense data. The digital signals of the converter are output to the memory 124 of the computer 108. The memory and other components in the computer operate under control of the computer unit 120, as required, for receiving digital signals and for outputting digital signals. To measure the pitch line deviation and develop pitch line non linearity, of the threaded portion of the pipe 24, the signals of the probes 28B, 28D and 28F are taken into the signal processor for computation which is then shown on the unit s display 32. To provide the thread height, signals from the probes 28C and 28E are likewise taken into the signal processor for computation, the results of which are also displayed in display unit 32. For measurement of the cumulative thread lead, the signals of transducer 79G coupled to the probe 28G are sent to the computer for processing and display. It is noted that probe 28A serves as a reference point. For measurement of the taper, the signal from inclinometer 11 is fed to the signal processor. A more general form of test routine can be accomplished by use of a general purpose computer by use of the flow sheets and tabulations presented in the Appendix at the end to this specification. The material presented therein is in standard format and, accordingly, readily understood. Accordingly, this material will be reviewed briefly. At the beginning of the flow sheet, a keyboard entry would indicate whether a calibration measurement is to be made or whether the operation is to proceed for actual measurement. Calibration is employed, such calibration being accomplished by attaching the tool 26 to a calibrated gage and, thereafter, noting the transducer measurements presented on the display 32. These latter results are also stored in the memory of the computer for comparison to the actual measurements. This, in effect, amounts to a zeroing of the tool 26 so that the discrepancy between the standard values and the actual values can be attained. Proceeding with the flow chart in the Appendix, the system contemplates the use of a printer not shown which operates in conventional fashion for outputting information from the computer. The keyboard instructions are then followed as to whether the instructions to the tool 26 are to be printed out or not. Thereafter, the program continues with the inputting and storage of data. Then a decision block decides whether the last data has been entered or not. In the event that more data is to be entered then the process is repeated for the inputting of further data. If the last parameter has been entered, then the process continues to identify the nature of the thread, if a pipe or if a coupling. Thereafter, identification number may be applied and input parameters printed out. During the ensuing steps in the flow chart, symbols are presented so as to simplify the amount of legends presented in each box of the flow chart. The symbols are identified in the table following the flow chart in the Appendix. The computer can operate with the tool 26 for reception of the raw data and for calculation of the desired thread characteristics. It is to be understood that the above described embodiment of the invention is illustrative only, and that modifications thereof may occur to those skilled in the art. Accordingly, this invention is not to be regarded as limited to the embodiment disclosed herein, but is to limited only as defined by the appended claims.