# MULTIWAVELENGTH SPECTROPHOTOMETER

## Claims
Mehrfachwellenlängen Spektrophotometer, insbesondere für Flüssigchromatographie, das aufweist eine Lichtquelle 1 , eine Probenzelle 3 , ein Gitter 5 zum Dispergieren eines Lichtstrahls von der Lichtquelle 1 und eine Mehrkanal Lichtdetektor Einrichtung 6, 7 60 zum Detektieren von Licht, das durch das Gitter 5 in einem ersten Wellenlängenbereich dispergiert ist,

## Description
The present invention relates to a multiwavelength spectrophotometer, particularly for liquid chromatography and more particularly to a multiwavelength spectrophotometer monitoring simultaneously wavelengths of a spectrum. In multiwavelength spectrophotometers, the sensitivity or the signal to noise ratio S N ratio is worse than that of a single wavelength spectrophotometer because the sensitivity of a multichannel light detector formed by a photodiode array used in the multiwavelength spectrophotometer is worse than that of a single channel light detector formed by a single photodiode or photomultiplier used in the single wavelength spectrophotometer due to interface defects between neighbouring photodiodes in the photodiode array of the multichannel light detector. The S N ratio of the multiwavelength spectrophotometer is particularly very low in the wavelength range of low intensity of a light source. Some known multiwavelength spectrophotometer, described for example in Analytical Chemistry, Volume 55, No. 8, July 1983, pp. 836A, 838A and 842A, offer the following solutions for reducing this disadvantage. One known spectrophotometer uses successively two kinds of light sources, for example a deuterium lamp D₂ lamp for the ultraviolet wavelength range and a tungsten lamp W lamp for the visible wavelength range, respectively. This spectrophotometer, however, is quite expensive and operates quite slowly because the different wavelengths cannot be measured simultaneously but only successively. Another known spectrophotometer using a D₂ lamp reduces the S N ratio in the visible wavelength range by a data processing, called wavelength bunching which is an integration of all signals between two preset wavelengths. Hereby, however, the wavelength resolution is deteriorated. The object of the present invention is to eliminate the disadvantages of the known multiwavelength spectrophotometer and to provide a multiwavelength spectrophotometer with a high S N ratio. This object is solved according to the invention by a multiwavelength spectrophotometer as defined in claim 1. The inventive spectrophotometer eliminates the additional expenses of a second light source, the low operation speed of a successively monotoring spectrophotometer and the low wavelength resolution of the known spectrophotometers as mentioned above and improves, that means increases the S N ratio, especially in the wavelength range in which the light intensisity of the light source is low. Advantageous embodiments of the present invention are described below in connection with the drawings wherein Figure 1 shows the intensity versus wavelength diagram of a D₂ lamp measured by using a silicon photodiode array as light detector. The light intensity of a D₂ lamp is quite low in the visible wavelength range, i.e. in the range above about 400 nm. As a result of this characteristic, the signals of a sample measured for example in a liquid chromatograph using such a D₂ lamp have generally a low S N ratio in the visible wavelength range. Figure 2 shows an optical system of the spectrophotometer comprising a light source 1, a condensor lens 2, a flow cell 3 and a monochromater formed by an entrance slit 4, a concave grating 5 and two multichannel light detectors consisting of two silicon photodiode arrays 6 and 7. The light beam is dispersed by the concave grating 5. Normally, the first order of interference in a first wavelength range is detected simultaneously by the silicon photodiode array 6. The array 7 detects simultaneously the second order of interference in a second wavelength range overlapping at least partly the first wavelength range. As the second order of interference has a dispersion being the double of that of the first order of interference and as the photodiode array 7 detects half of the wavelength range of the wavelength range detected by the photodiode array 6, the identical photodiode array can be used for both photodiode array 6 and 7. In figure 3, drivers 9 and 10 produce driving pulses ø₁ and ø₂ driving the photodiode arrays 6 and 7 respectively by corresponding command signals from a processor 8. The dirver 9 supplies further a start pulse SP to the photodiode array 6. A wavelength scan end pulse End of Scan EOS is supplied from the photodiode array 6 to the photodiode array 7 as a start pulse for the photodiode array 7 and from the photodiode array 7 to the processor 8. The output signals Array Signal AS of the photodiode array 6 and 7 are supplied to an A D converter 15 through amplifiers 11 and 12 and sample and hold circuits 13 and 14. Command signals C are also supplied to the A D converter 15. The output signals AS are converted to digital signals by the A D converter 15 in response to the command signals C and read into the processor 8. Figure 4 shows an example of the first order of interference of an absorption spectrum of a liquid sample which is measured in a chromatograph by the photodiode array 6 in the wavelength range from 200 to 600 nm. Large noises are indicated in the wavelength range of more than 400 nm in which the light intensity of the D₂ lamp is low. Figure 5 shows an example of the second order of interference of an absorption spectrum of the same liquid sample which is measured by the photodiode array 7 in the wavelength range from 400 to 600 nm. The processor 8 performs a smoothing or averaging operation for the output signals of the photodiode arrays 6 and 7 as shown in figures 4 and 5 in two steps as follows. Let the output signals for the channels 1, 2, 3,...,60 of the photodiode array 7 be B 1 , B 2 , ...,B 60 . The first step of the averaging operating is obtained by averaging the output signals of two neighbouring channels as Those obtained signals have essentially the same wavelength resolution of 6 nm as the output signals of each channel of the photodiode array 6 as can be taken from the following. For the second step of the averaging operation, let the output signals of the channels 1, 2, 3 ...., 60 of the photodiode array 6 be A 1 , A 2 , A 3 , ...., A 60 . The output signals A 31 , A 32 , ...., A 60 indicate the spectrum signals of more than 400 nm. The average signals obtained by the second step of the averaging operation are The spectrum including those signals is shown in figure 6. This spectrum indicates a high S N ratio also in the visible wavelength range from 400 to 600 nm. Depending on the S N ratio of the spectra in figures 4 and 5, weighted averaging can be performed as If the S N ratio of the output signals of the photodiode array 6 figure 4 is higher than the S N ratio of the output signals of the photodiode array 7 figure 5 , a larger weight factor k₁ is taken compared to the weight factor k₂. The above description is related to the spectrum data. In case for recording a chromatogram, a fixed wavelength is used for measurement. Figure 7 shows another embodiment of the light detectors respectively photodiode arrays. The dispersed light is detected by a photodiode array 60 which has 150 channels. Channels 1 to 60 detect the first order of interference in the wavelength range from 200 to 600 nm. Channels 61 to 150 detect the second order of interference in the wavelength range of 303 to 600 nm. Due to the fact that only one photodiode array 60 is used, only one set of a photodiode array driver, an amplifier and a sample and hold circuit is necessary in the circuit of figure 3. In the first embodiment shown in figure 2, the photodiode array 7 may be arranged to detect a minus first order of interference instead of the second order of interference. The above description has been related to a D₂ lamp and to silicon photodiode arrays. The present invention, however, may apply also to other light sources and or detectors, for example to a W lamp or a micro channel plate etc.