# Composite diaphragms and process for alkaline water electrolysis.

## Abstract
Porous and alkaline permeable composite diaphragms for electrolysis cells comprising a chemically inert, fibrous porous matrice or substrate impregnated with a copolymer of divinylbenzene and at least one member of the group comprising of 2 vinylpyridine and or substituted 2 methyl 5 vinylpyridine and or 4 vinylpyridine method of electrolysis of an electrolyte using the said diaphragms and an electroly sis cell containing said diaphragms.

## Claims
Claims 1. A porous alkali permeable composite diaphragm comprising a chemically inert fibrous porous matrix or substrate impregnated with a copolymer of divinylbenzene and at least one member of the group consisting of 2 vinylpyridine and or substituted 2 methyl 5 vinylpyridine and or 4 vinylpy ri dine. 2. The composite diaphragm of claim 1 wherein the copolymer was directly polymerized on the substrate in the presence of a high boiling solvent. 3. The diaphragm of claim 2 wherein the ratio of vinylpyridine to divinylbenzene is between 8 to 1 and 3 to 2. 4. The diaphragm of claim 3 wherein theweight of the copolymer was 8 to 14 by weight. 5. The composite diaphragm of claim 1 wherein the inert fibrous material is asbestos. 6. The composite diaphragm of claim 1 wherein the amount of copolymer is from 6 to 20X by weight of the composite diaphragm. 7. The composite diaphragm of claim 1 wherein the molar ratio between vinylpyridine to divinylbenzene is between 15 1 and 1 1 8. The diaphragm of claim 1 wherein 2 methyl 5 vinyl pyridine is used. 9. An electrolytic cell for alkaline water electrolysis comprising at least one anode and one cathode forming a inter electrodic gap with a porous electrolyte permeable diaphragm of claim 1 separating the anode and cathode. 10. The cell of claim 9 wherein the inert fibrous material is asbestos. 11. The cell of claim 9 wherein the amount of copolymer is from 6 to 20 by weight of the composite diaphragm. 12. The cell of claim 9 wherein the molar ratio between vnylpyridine and divinylbenzene is between 15 1 and 1 1. 13. The cell of claim 9 wherein the copolymer was directly polymerized on the substrate in the presence of a highboiling solvent. 14. The cell of claim 9 wherein the ratio of vinylpyridine to divinylbenzene is between 8 1 and 3 2. 15. The cell of claim 9 wherein the weight of copolymer was 8 to 14 by weight. 16. The cell of claim 9 wherein 2 methyl 5 vinylpyridine is used. 17. The cell of claim 9 wherein high temperatures up to 140 C are used for electrolysis.

## Description
Composite diaphragms and process for alkaline water electrolysisState of the artThe main problems remaining in the development of a separator suitable for high temperature alkaline water electrolysis are the stability of the separator under the severe electrolysis conditions and separator wettability. Indeed significant gains in the efficiency of hydrogen production can be achieved by performing the electrolysis in concentra ted alkaline solutions up to 50 KOH at elevated pressures up to 40 bar and elevated temperatures up to 200 C . However no commercial separator exist at this time which can withstand these extreme conditions for prolonged periods. For example, asbestos diaphragms have been shown to disintegrate at temperatures higher than 100 C. Furthermore the separator should be wettable by concentrated caustic solutions to prevent gas bubble formation at the separator which causes increased ohmic resistance and gas impurity.Several new materials, both inorganic and organic, are currently under active investigation as eligible candidates in alkaline water electrolysers. Organic polymers could provide attractive alternatives for the replacement of the currently used asbestos, as they can be spun into fibers and these in turn can be prepared in woven cloths, felts or other non woven fabrics. Organic polymers could also be prepared as microporous films. Although modern polymers lend themselves to a variety of processes suitable for the preparation of different forms of separator materials only a very few can survive the environmental conditions existing in an alkaline water electrolyser at 1500C or above. Among these some commercially available heat stable and chemical resistant polymers such as polytetrafluoroethylene have been tested for use as the required separator material.Though they are quite satisfactory in their thermal and chemical stabilities, they are found insufficiently hydrophylic to be properly wetted by the electrolyte to prevent gas bubble formation. As a matter of fact gas retention is the main drawback for these organic separators and in order to use them it is necessary to improve their wettability.Objects of the inventionIt is a primary object of the invention to provide a novel composite diaphragm material comprising a matrix of fibrous inert material impregnated with copolymer of divinylbenzene and at least one member of the group consisting of 2 vinylpyridine and or substituted 2 methyl 5 vinylpyridine and or 4 vinylpyridine which is wettable by the electrolyte and which remains dimensionally stable for long periods under the severe conditions of alkaline water electrolysis.It is another object of the invention to provide a novel process for the preparation of the composite diaphragm ma trial It is a further object of the invention to provide an improved method for alkaline water electrolysis in a diaphragm cell provided with the diaphragm of the invention.It is an additional object to the invention to provide a novel electrolysis cell equipped with the novel diaphragm. These and other objects and advantages of the invention will become obvious from the following detailed description.The InventionThe novel porous and alkali permeable composite diaphragms of the invention are composed of a chemically inert, fibrous porous matrix or substrate impregnated with a copolymer of divinylbenzene and at least one member of the group consisting of 2 vinylpyridine and or substituted 2methyl 5 vinylpyridine and or 4 vinylpyridine.The copolymer is directly formed on the the inert fibrous substrate in the presence of a high boiling solvent.The advantages of the composite diaphragms of this inven ti on are their greater resistance to mechanical or chemical abrasion. Their dimensional stability allows thinner diaphragms and smaller i nterel ectrodi c distances with a considerable saving of electric energy. Moreover because the distance between the anodic side of the diaphragm and the active surface may be accurately preset and is thereafter maintained, a better faraday efficiency is obtained.Preferably the inner fibrous material is asbestos paper or asbestos mat, but other fibrous inert materials may be used such as polyester fibers in the form of woven or unwoven felt or cloth and woven or unwoven carbon fiber felts. The ratio of divinylbenzene to the vinylpyridine is 1 15 to 1 1, preferably between 1 to 0 and 2 to 3. The composite diaphragm preferably contains 6 to 20 by weight of the final diaphragm of the said copolymer, most preferably 8 to 14 by weight. It has been unexpectedly found that by impregnating for example asbestos paper with the said copolymer obtained in situ in the presence of a high boiling solvent, the asbestos is made absolutely stable and can withstand drastic electrolysis conditions in alkaline media even at high temperatures up to l400C . On the other hand, the diaphragm remains porous and permeable to alkali up to a copolymer loading of about 25 of the total weight of the composite material. Specifically it has been unexpectedly found that depending on the porportion of high boiling solvent and of cross linking agent which are adopted during the copolymerization step, a large gradation in properties from those of an expanded network to those of a macroporous material is obtained in the resulting copolymer.Accordingly the hydrophilic properties of the impregnated fibrous matrix can be suitable adjusted by properly varying the experimental condition.The novel method of the invention for the preparation of the composite diaphragm material comprises impregnating the inert fibrous matrix with a solution of 3 to 40 by volume of 2 vinylpyridine and or substituted 2 methyl 5vinylpyridine and or 4 vinylpyridine and divinylbenzene in a high boiling organic solvent such as N,N dimethyl formamide, dimethyl sulfoxide, tetramethylene sulfone, etc. in a molar ratio of 15 1 to 1 1, preferably 8 1 to 3 2, preferably containing 0.1 to 5Z, most preferably about 1 mole of a suitable polymerization initiator such as benzoylperoxide or azobisisobutyronitrile, heating the impregnated matrix at 80 120 C, preferably at 95 1050C for a time sufficient to finish the in situ polymerisation in the presence of high boiling solvent and washing the composite material with a low boiling organic solvent to remove the high boiling solvent. The modification by solvent of polymer networks obtained in situ produces significant changes in the properties of the resulting composite diaphragm as far as network entanglement with the fibrous matrix is concerned.Accordingly by varying the experimental conditions an exceptionally uniform coating of the fibrous matrix and a very strong bonding together with the fibers due to copolymer bidging occur resulting in a composite diaphragm which can withstand drastic electrolysis conditions even at high temperatures 140 C . Permeability, porosity and wettability of the composite diaphragms prepared by the process of the present invention are perfectly reproducible characteristics which can be controlled by varying parameters such as the temperature and the time of polymerization and most of all the relative ratios of monomers and their concentration in the high boiling solvent. The molar ratios of 2 vinylpyridine and or substituted 2 methyl 5 vinylpyridine and or 4 vinylpyridine to divinylbenzene may range from 15 1 to 1 1 and preferably from 8 1 to 3 2 while the solution of monomers may preferably contain from 10 to 25 of monomers and most preferably from 15 to 20 giving to the copolymer an optimum crosslinking degree for excellent chemical and thermal resistance and good hydrophilic properties.The novel electrolytic process of the invention for the preparation of a chemical product comprises providing an electrolyte containing the elements of the product to be produced in an electrolytic cell with an anode and a cathode separated by a porous, electrolyte permeable composite diaphragm made of a chemical inert, fibrous porous matrix or substrate impregnated with a copolymer of divinylbenzene and at least one member of the group consisting of 2 vinylpyridine and or substituted 2 methyl 5 vinylpyridine and or 4 vinylpyridine, passing an electrolysis current through the anode, cathode and electrolyte and recovering said chemical product from cited cells.The novel electric lytic cell of the invention comprises a cell housing containing at least one anode and at least one cathode forming an interelectrodic gap with a porous, electrolyte permeable diaphragm of the invention separating the anode and cathode.In the following examples there are described several embodiments to illustrate the invention.However it is to be understood that the invention is not intended to be limited to the specific embodiments.EXAMPLE 1A roll of asbestos cardboard 0.05 cm thick and 40 cm wide is continuously driven into a soaking bath at lO0C and having the following composition moles N,N dimethylformamide DMF g. 4463 61,13 4 vinylpyridine VP 945 9 divinylbenzene DVB 260 50 1 dibenzoylperoxide DBP 36,4 75 0,15The height of liquid and the compositon of the bath are kept constant by feeding continuously fresh reagent. The cardboard residence time in the bath is 30 minutes. The cardboard coming out of the bath and impregnated with the above reagents is lend into an oven which is kept at 100 30C to carry out the monomers in situ in the presence of sorbed dimethylformamide. The oven is 50 cm wide and 200 cm long and consists of 2 flat sheets at 3 mm one from the other.The surfaces of the sheets which face the cardboard contain 2 teri tal nets. The diameter of each wire which constitutes the net is 0.3 mm. 2Over 1 cm area the net contains 9 holes. The intersheets distance of 3 mm is kept by inserting teflon bars 2x3 mm along the longest edges of the oven. The bars keep the sheets separated and the asbestos roll in the oven area.The sheets are heated externally with electric silicon rubber straps glued on the outer surfaces of the sheets.Within the oven 8 thermoresistors Pt lOOQ keep the temperature constant. The cardboard residence time in the oven is 30 minutes. Out of the oven exit the cardboard is washed twice with acetone and water at room temperature from the solvent. The solvent DMF is recovered by fractional distillation from the acetone washing. From the water washing acetone is recovered in the same fashion.The roll is dried at 1000C in an oven which is similar to the former and rolled up again. Fig. 1 shows a process scheme.Frome the cardboard weight gain, Wg Wi 100 , Wf and Wi final and initial cardboard Wf weight, the VP DVB copolymer concentration of 10.5 in the cardboard is obtained. The concentration distribution throughout the cardboard varies from 10.3 to 10.7X. A 10.5X VP DVB asbestos sample has worked out for 2500 hours under alkaline water electrolysis. Both the cell Ni electrodes and cardboard had a 20 cm diameter. The cell was made of AISI 316 L steel. The operating conditions 2 were lA cm , l350C, 43X KOH, 30 bar. The exit gases were H2 and 2 each with over than 99.9 purity. The separator 2 ohmic drop was 0.15 n .cm at 100 C. The separator weight loss was less than 3 . ESAMPLE 2Similarly as above an asbestos cardboard containing 12Z of 2 methyl 5 vinylpyridine divinylbenzene MVP DVB copolymer has been manufactured out of a soaking bath of the following composition grams moles dimethylsolfoxide DMSO 4820 61 2 methyl 5 vinylpyridine MVP 1180 10 DVB 50X 353,6 1,36 azobisisobutyronitrile ABN 37,3 0,2276 The cardboard was tested in the electrolysis of water for 5000 hours under the following conditions 2 KOH 50X, 140 C, 35 bar, 1 A cm 2. The ohmic drop across the separator was 0.2 R.cm initial ly and 0.16 R.cm after 5000 h.at 1000C. The other experi mental conditions and results are identical to those de scribed previously. EXAMPLE 3 A 13KVP DVB asbestos roll is obtained as above from the following soaking bath grams molesDMSO 2422 31 2 VP 1050 10DVB 50 260 1DBP 75 25 0,11 at llO C and with 20 minutes residence time.The separator tested out at 1 A cm , in KOH 50 at 130 0 and 30 bar in the above described cell for 3500 hours yields the same results as above the ohmic drop across the separator is 0.1 Q.cmL at 100 C. EXAMPLE 4A separator made of carbon fiber and 23.5 4VP DVB has been obtained out of the carbon fiber soaked as above and polymerized at 200C for 1 hour. The composition of the soaking bath is grams molesDMF 1353 18,54 4VP 1050 10DVB 50 257 0,99DBP 75 25 0,11 The purity of H2 and 2 from the electrolysis run as above was 99.9. The IR drop was 0.12 Q.cm at 100 C. The weight loss of the separator was 2 .EXAMPLE 5A roll of asbestos cardboard 0.05 thick and 40 cm wide is continuously driven into a soaking bath at 0 C having the following composition grams moles 4VP 19.58 0.186DVB 5.11 0.039DBP 75X 0.72 0.002Decahydronaphtalene 69.10 0.5The polymerization is performed as reported in Example 1.The cardboard is washed in acetone and dried at 1000C in air. The corresponding weight gain varied between 11.5 and 12.3 while the IR drop in 30 X KOH at 100 C was 0.14 0.17 Q .cm2 EXAMPLE 6A roll of asbestos cardboard 0.05 thick and 40 cm wide is continuously driven into a soaking bath at OOC having the following composition grams moles 4VP 9.79 0.093DVB 2.555 0.0195DBP 75Z 0.036 0.001 Xyl ene 33.54 0.31The experimental conditions are similar to those reported in Example I except for the temperature 80 C . The cardboard is again washed in acetone and dried at 100 C in air. The corresponding weight gain was 10.4 while the IR drop in 30 KOH at 100 C was 0.14 Q.cm2. Various modifications of the method and processes of the present invention may be made without departing from the spirit or scope thereof. In particular, modifications as regards, for example, the type of solvent and polymeriza ti on initiator or the type of fibrous matrix, either natural or synthetic, will be obvious to the skilled in the art. It must be understood that the invention is not to be limited in any way by the aforesaid examples, but is limited only as defined in the following appended claims.