# PROCESS FOR THE PREPARATION OF IMPROVED HYDROCONVERSION CATALYSTS AND CATALYSTS THUS PREPARED

## Claims
Ein Verfahren zur Herstellung von Wasserstoffumwandlungskatalysatoren auf einem Träger, welche eine verbesserte Hydrodenitrifizierungsaktivität aufweisen, welche Katalysatoren katalytisch aktive Mengen mindestens eines Metalls der Gruppe VIII und mindestens eines Metalls der Gruppe VIB, die in einem geeigneten Träger vorliegen, aufweisen, welches Verfahren die Zugabe von 0,5 bis 15 Gewichtsprozent Molybdän und oder Wolframcarbonylen zu den genannten Katalysatoren durch Sublimation bei erhöhter Temperatur, und das Trocknen und Calcinieren der genannten mit Metallcarbonyl imprägnierten Katalysatoren umfaßt.

## Description
This invention relates to a process for preparing supported hydroconversion catalysts, particularly with respect to improved hydrodenitrification HDN activity. Considerable research has been undertaken to develop and commercialize new, cost effective highly active hydroconversion catalysts for large volume first stage hydrocracking and catalytic cracking feed hydrotreater applications. The inclusion of significant amounts of 535 C residual components, including cracked stocks, in the hydrocarbon feed to these processes has caused severe activity and stability problems for the catalysts currently used commercially in these applications. The growing demand for new catalysts for up grading such poor quality feedstocks has led to the discovery of improved catalysts by a special technique for adding additional catalytically active metals onto supported catalysts. Methods for preparing supported hydrogenation metal catalysts which are suitable starting points for the instant invention are well known. In U.S. patent specification 3,629,146, for example, a method is disclosed for preparing a supported catalyst containing high catalytic metal concentrations in a single aqueous impregnation from a stabilized solution. In U.S. patent specification 3,094,480 it is described that the denitrogenation activity of cobalt oxide molybdenum oxide catalysts can be improved by raising the Mo content from the conventional range to the 8.2 13.5 wt range, which metals are deposited on the support by impregnation, coprecipitation or co impregnation. It is also known to combine molybdenum carbonyls with alumina to prepare a catalyst for the metathesis of olefins J. Mol. Catalysis, The present invention thus relates to a process for preparing supported hydroconversion catalysts having improved hydrodenitrification activity which catalysts contain catalytically active amounts of at least one Group VIII and at least one Group VIB metal incorporated into a suitable support, which comprises adding from 0.5 to 15 wt of molybdenum and or tungsten carbonyls to said catalysts by sublimation at elevated temperature and drying and calcining said metal carbonyl impregnated catalysts. The invention further relates to supported hydroconversion catalysts with improved hydrodenitrification activity prepared in this manner. This invention is applicable to supported hydroconversion catalysts which contain at least one Group VIII and at least one Group VIB metal of the Periodic Table incorporated into a support. Typically such catalysts will contain from 1 to 5 wt nickel and or cobalt as Group VIII metals and from 5 to 15 wt molybdenum or tungsten as the Group VIB metal. Any of the usual catalyst supports are thought to be suitable for use in the process according to the invention. Suitable supports for the catalysts according to the invention include refractory oxides, such as alumina, silica and mixtures thereof. Crystalline synthetic zeolites such as aluminosilicates, iron silicates, gallium silicates and mixtures thereof may also be used as supports, preferably in combination with refractory oxide supports. A particularly preferred support is gamma alumina which contains less than 1 wt silica. Molybdenum and tungsten metal carbonyls are zero valent as far as the metals are concerned. Known metal carbonyls include to M CO ₆, XM CO ₃ where X can be benzene, toluene, cycloheptatriene, etc., and all of these carbonyls should be equally suitable for the invention. However, not all metal carbonyls appear to be equally effective. While molybdenum and tungsten carbonyls, added to a catalyst by the process according to the present invention, improve its HDN activity, chromium carbonyl, added by the same method, decreases the HDN activity. Therefore, the present invention is restricted to the use of molybdenum and tungsten carbonyls. It is preferred to dry the catalysts containing catalytically active amounts of at least one Group VIII and at least one Group VIB metal incorporated in a suitable support, before adding molybdenum and or tungsten carbonyls onto said catalysts by sublimation. Suitably the molybdenum and or tungsten carbonyls are sublimed onto the catalysts at reduced pressure. Previous efforts at improving the HDN activity of catalysts by incorporating additional molybdenum in the form of MoO₃ have been less successful. It was hoped that the interaction of a metal in a low oxidation state with a catalytic metal on a support might produce a unique metal metal interaction and possibly high dispersion of the added metal. Although the interaction of metal carbonyls with alumina, silica, and zeolite supports has recently been discussed in the literature A. Brenner and D.A. Hucul, Initial exploratory studies showed that sublimation of Mo and W carbonyls onto a commercial hydrotreating catalyst produced and sold by Shell Chemical Co., U.S.A., had a profound effect on catalytic activity. By adding 1.5 wt Mo to the catalyst, HDN activity was increased 16 relative to the base catalyst. From 0.5 wt up to 15 wt metal carbonyl added by the process according to the invention met with good results. However, it is preferred to add only from 1 wt to 5 wt by the process according to the invention. Suitably from 1 to 5 wt molybdenum carbonyl compound basis catalyst is incorporated by sublimation, preferably at reduced pressure, on a catalyst comprising nickel and molybdenum compounds supported on alumina. A substantial increase in the hydrodenitrification HDN activity, relative to commercial catalysts, is required to commercialize a new hydroconversion catalyst. In an effort to develop such improved catalysts, many experimental catalysts were prepared and tested for HDN activity. The HDN activity test used in the testing program is designed to measure denitrification by using a standard set of conditions, including temperature, pressure, gas flow and liquid flow, for each catalyst. A standard commercial catalyst is tested under the same conditions as the experimental catalysts. The first order denitrification rate constant of the standard catalyst is defined as 1.00 and all experimental catalysts have activities measured relative to this standard. This method was used to determine the HDN improvement as shown in the Examples herein. Suitable hydroconversion conditions for processes using improved catalysts according to the present invention comprise a temperature of 350 420 C a total pressure of 75 200 bar a partial hydrogen pressure of 60 200 bar a space velocity of 0.4 1,5 kg oil 1 catalyst hour and a hydrogen feed rate of 250 2500 Nl kg oil feed. The hydrodenitrification of heavy oil feeds according to the present process is preferably carried out under the following conditions The hydrogen applied can be pure hydrogen or a hydrogen containing gas, preferably one comprising more than 70 of hydrogen. The hydrogen containing gas may also contain up to about 10 of hydrogen sulphide. It is preferred that the hydrocarbon oil feed streams contain less than 3 ppmw, and most preferably less than 1 ppmw of vanadium and nickel combined. In some cases it may be necessary to subject the hydrocarbon oil feed to a demetallization pre treatment in order to reach these levels. The preferred catalysts used for a demetallization pre treatment comprise 1 5 wt of nickel and 5 15 wt of molybdenum, both percentages based on total catalyst. The preferred molybdenum nickel weight ratio lies between 3 1 and 6 1. These metals may be incorporated into the catalyst by any method known in the art, for example by impregnation of alumina in one or more stages with an aqueous solution containing one or more salts of the metals concerned. Suitable conditions for carrying out the demetallization pre treatment comprise a temperature of 370 420 C a total pressure of 65 220 bar a partial hydrogen pressure of 60 200 bar a space velocity of 0.2 2 kg oil 1 catalyst hour and a hydrogen feed rate of 250 2500 Nl kg oil feed. The gas streams separated from both the pre treated and the converted hydrocarbon oils, as well as the residual fractions and the product obtained, can all be partially or completely recycled. The invention will now be illustrated by the following examples Six catalyst samples were prepared using a commercial Ni Mo Al₂O₃ hydrotreating catalyst, as a starting material. The starting material was prepared by first drying a sample of the catalyst, which was a 1.6 mm diameter extrudate, at 480 C for two hours and then cooling it under nitrogen for 30 minutes. A weighed amount of extrudate was then placed in a round bottom flask with an appropriate amount of molybdenum, tungsten or chromium carbonyls, whereby a desired additional catalytic metal content was impregnated onto the commercial catalyst by sublimation. The extrudates were placed on a rotovap under 2,6.10 ³ bar 2 mm Hg pressure and heated for 75 minutes at 80 C. The finished catalyst samples were then obtained by drying and calcining in air at 480 C for two hours. The percent weight increases in metal content of the catalyst samples after adding metals by sublimation are shown in Table 1. The metals added were assumed to be MoO₃, CrO₃ and WO₃ after calcining the respective catalysts. Catalysts A and E were prepared by subliming metal hexacarbonyls onto a dried catalyst by using 50 grams of a first sample of commercial hydrotreating catalyst. Catalyst B was prepared by using 300 grams of a second sample of commercial hydrotreating catalyst. Catalysts C, D and F were prepared by using 50 grams of the second sample of the commercial hydrotreating catalyst. These six added metal catalysts and the commercial hydrotreating catalyst were used to hydrotreat a sample of catalytically cracked heavy gas oil having feed properties shown in Table 1. All the catalysts were sulphided before the hydrotreating tests began by treatment with a H₂ H₂S 5 v H₂S gaseous mixture at elevated temperature 371 C for two hours. Catalyst A, which contained approximately 1.5 wt additional Mo, showed an increase in HDN activity of 16 relative to the first sample of commercial catalyst. Catalyst B, which contained 3.3 wt additional Mo, and was prepared from a larger batch of a second sample of commercial catalyst, was roughly equivalent in HDN activity to the first commercial catalyst. Catalyst C, which was prepared in the same manner as Catalyst A, but had the same 3.3 wt Mo content as Catalyst B, showed about a 12 increase in HDN activity over the commercial catalyst. Catalyst D, which was prepared similar to Catalyst A, was not calcined prior to sulphiding and testing. This catalyst showed an 8 increase in HDN activity as compared to the commercial catalyst. Catalysts E and F were prepared starting with 50 gram samples of the second sample of commercial catalyst. Catalyst E, which contained chromium, was significantly less active for hydrogenation, hydrodenitrification and hydrodesulphurization than the commercial catalyst. Catalyst F, which contained tungsten, showed an increase of 9 in HDN activity over the commercial catalyst.