# Methods of producing paper containing pigments.

## Abstract
Economical filler or coating pigments for use in increas ing the opacity of paper, for example, newsprint or self copy ing paper, which have a particle size of 0.1 to 1 µm, preferably 0.2 to 0.6 µm , are made up of aggregates of microcrystals of CaF₂ and or MgF₂, bound together by a gelled silica polymer. The pigments may be made by mixing CaF₂ and or MgF₂ to form an aqueous slurry, or the CaF₂, MgF₂ and SiO₂ may be formed in situ by mixing H₂SiF₆ and a car bonate and or hydroxide and or oxide of Ca and or Mg to form a gelling silica polymer and microcrystals of CaF₂ and or MgF₂. In both cases, the microcrystals are thereupon bound into the required pigment aggregates by the polymer.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A filler pigment or coating pigment for paper, such as newsprint or self copying paper, the particle size of the pigment being about 0.1 to 1 Vm, preferably about 0.2 to 0.6 pm, characterised in that it is made up of aggregates of microcrystals of CaF2 and or MgF2, bound together by a gelled silica polymer. 2. A coating pigment or filler pigment according toClaim 1, characterised in that the aggregates contain at most about 30 , and preferably 2 20 ós by weight of SiO2. 3. A method for the preparation of a filler pigment which increases the opacity of paper, the particle size of the pigment being about 0.1 to 1 pm, preferably 0.2 to 0.6 pm, characterised in that SiO2 is mixed withCaF2 and or MgF2 to form an aqueous slurry, whereuponCaF2 and or MgF2 pigment aggregates bound together by a gelling silica polymer are formed. 4. A method according to Claim 3, characterised in that at most about 30, and preferably about 15 30, parts by weight SiO2 and at least 70, preferably 95 70, parts by weight CaF2 and or MgF2 are mixed with each other. 5. A method for preparing a filler pigment which increases the opacity of paper, the particle size of the pigment being about 0.1 to 1 Um, preferably 0.2 to 0.6 Vm, characterised in that H2Si F6 and a carbonate, and or hydroxide and or oxide of Ca and or Mg are mixed together in aqueous solution or suspension to form a gelling silica polymer and microcrystals of CaF2 and or MgF2, whereupon said microcrystals are bound together into pigment aggregates by means of the gelling silica polymer. 6. A method according to Claim 5, characterised in that 1 molar part of H2SiF6 and 2 4 molar parts of a carbonate and or hydroxide and or oxide of Ca and or Mg are mixed together. 7. A method according to Claim 5 or 6, characterised in that the precipitate obtained is washed with water in order to decrease the SiO2 content. 8. A method for the making of paper by adding to the stock a filler pigment which increases the opacity of the paper, the particle size of the pigment being about 0.1 to I Um, preferably 0.2 to 0.6 pm, and thereafter removing water from the stock to form a paper sheet or a continuous paper web, characterised in that an aqueous dispersion which has been obtained by mixing H2SiF6 in aqueous solution with a carbonate and or hydroxide and or oxide of Ca and or Mq, is added to the stock as said filler pigment.

## Description
FILLER PIGMENTS OR COATING PIGIdENTS, METHODS FOR PRODUCING SUCH PIGMENTS AND METHODS OF PRODUCING PAPER CONTAINING SUCH PIGMENTS The present invention relates to filler pigments which increase the opacity of paper or of paper coating, the particle size of the pigments being in the range of 0.1 to 1 pm, preferably 0.2 to 0.6 pm. In addition, the invention relates to methods for the production of such filler pigments and for making paper which contains such filler pigments, by adding to the stock the filler pigment to increase the opacity of the paper, and removing water from the stock to form a paper sheet or a continuous paper web.In addition to inexpensive fillers, the use of which is intended to decrease the price of paper per weight unit, fillers which impart to the paper certain special properties are used as paper fillers. One such property is the opacity of the paper. A high opacity value is important, for example, when it is desired to save in rau material costs by reducing the thickness of the paper without compromising its opacity.The opacity properties of paper are determined by its structure in the following way. Light penetrating into paper is not only reflected and deflected but also scattered. The opacity of paper is linked with the amount of scattering which occurs, and this amount can, for its part, be increased by increasing optical interfaces, i.e. by using suitable filler pigments. At any particular wavelength of light, the scattering is at its greatest when the radius of the particles is about one half the wavelength. The maximum scattering is higher the higher is the deflection coefficient of the particles.The best known opacity increasing filler pigment is Tit2. Its use is, however, limited by its high price. Other filler pigments used for improving opacity include certain synthetic silicates such as sodium alttminilim silicate.However, their price is also quite high.An object of the present invention is to provide a filler pigment which increases the opacity of paper and is more economical than previously known ones, its particle size being in the range of 0.1 to 1 pm, preferably 0.2 to 0.6 pm, i.e. of the same order of magnitude as the wavelength of light, the filler pigment thus having a good lightscattering coefficient.According to one aspect of the invention, there is provided a filler pigment or coating pigment for paper, such as neusprint or self copying paper, the particle size of the pigment being about 0.1 to 1 pm, preferably about 0.2 to 0.6 um, characterised in that it is made up of aggregates of microcrystals of CaF2 and or MgF2, bound together by a gelled silica polymer. Preferably the aggregates contain at most about 30 more preferably 2 2ût by weight of Six2. According to another aspect of the invention, there is provided a method for the preparation of a filler pigment which increases the opacity of paper, the particle size of the pigment being about 0.1 to 1 Um, preferably 0.2 to 0.6 Jm, characterised in that SiD2 is mixed with CaF2 and or MgF2 to form an aqueous slurry, whereupon g2 CaF2 and or MgF2 pigment aggregates bound together by a gelling silica polymer are formed. Preferably, at most about 30 ore preferably about 15 30 parts by weight of Six2. and at least 70 more preferably 95 70 parts by weight of Car 2 9nd or MgF2 are mixed with each other.According to a further aspect of the invention, there is provided a method for preparing a filler pigment which increases the opacity of paper, the particle size of the pigment being about 0.1 to 1 pm, preferably 0.2 to 0.6 pm, characterised in that H2SiF6 and a carbonate, and or hydroxide and or oxide of Ca and or Mq are mixed together in aqueous solution or suspension to form a gelling silica polymer and microcrystals of CaF2 and or MgF2, whereupon said microcrystals are bound together into pigment aggregates by means of the gelling silica polymer.Preferably, 1 molar part of HZSF and 2 4 molar parts of a carbonate and or hydroxide and or ox ide of Ca and orMg are mixed together. The precipitate obtained may be washed with water to decrease the SiO2 content.According to yet another aspect of the invention, there is provided a method for the making of paper by adding to the stock a filler pigment which increases the opacity of the paper, the particle size of the pigment being about 0.1 to 1 Um, preferably 0.2 to 0.6 Vm, and thereafter removing water from the stock to form a paper sheet or a continuous paper web, characterised in that an aqueous dispersion which has been obtained by mixing HSiFs in aqueous solution with a carbonate and or hydroxide and or oxide of C2 and or tlq, is added to the stock as said filler pigment. It is known that synthetic calcium fluoride can be prepared from, for example, hydrofluosilicic acid by allowing it to react with calcium carbonate in accordance with the following equation H2SiF6 3 CaCO3 Y 3 CaF2 SiO2 3 CO H20 The hydrofluosilicic acid used can advantageously be hydrofluosilicic acid formed in connection with the concentration of phosphoric acid used in the fertilizer industry. The calcium carbonate used can be any suitable pure calcium carbonate powder having a sufficiently small particle size. Instead of calcium carbonate, or in addition to it, it is possible to use calcium hydroxide, calcium oxide, or corresponding magnesium compounds, for example, dolomite powder. The calcium carbonate is preferably used as a 5 2Qa aqueous slurry and the acid as a 5 3Ooé aqueous solution. The product is in this case obtained as a relatively dilute aqueous suspension, the dry matter of which in accordance with the above equation consists of crystalline calcium fluoride and of silica, the state of which may vary depending on the conditions of the reaction mixture. The amount of silica in a stoichiometric reaction is about 20 of the total amount of dry matter in the reaction product. The mixture obtained is generally difficult to treat as such among other things it is only poorly filterable.In general, no useful application has been suggested for a mixture of calcium fluoride and silica of the type mentioned. Instead, several methods have been proposed for separating these compounds from each other. These methods are in general based on adjusting the conditions of the mixture to be such that the silica remains in the form of a sol, in which case it can be separated, for example, by filtering or decanting, from the calcium fluoride uhich is in solid form. For example GermanPatent Applications DE OS 2 407 238 and DE OS 2 533 128 disclose methods by which it is possible to produce synthetic calcium fluoride vhich is almost free from SiO2. It has been proposed that the calcium fluoride thus obtained should be used as a raw material in the production of hydrogen fluoride and for metallurgical purposes. It has also been proposed that the separatedSiO2 should be used for the preparation of active silica, silica gel, or stabilized silica sol. it has been observed surprisingly that a mixture of magnesium fluoride, or calcium fluoride and silica, prepared in the manner described above when used as a filler in paper sjcnificantly improves the opacity of the paper . The mixture t ar. be used as such as an aqueous slurry obtained from the reaction, or as a filtered precipitate, in which case it can, wnen necessary, be washed to tne desired SiC2 content.It can also be used in the form of a dried powder, which, however, is in most cases impractical because of the cost of drying.The size of the magnesium fluoride and calcium fluoride crystals was determined from the half widths of X ray diffraction curves. It was observed that in the reaction referred to above, magnesium fluoride and calcium fluoride crystallize as very small crystals typically 10 20 nm, depending on the conditions . As a result of the reaction, an aqueous suspension is thus obtained, which consists of microcrystalline magnesium fluoride, or calcium fluoride and of easily gelling silica. Such a mixture, which under certain conditions may even be alue like, is in general very difficult to treat as such for example it is usually very difficult to filter.It was observed from scanning electromicroscopic photographs of the mixture that magnesium fluoride and calcium fluoride are present in it in the form of aggregates with an even size distribution, the size of the aggregates being typically 0.2 0.6 pm, depending on the reaction conditions.The opacity increasing action of the agent in paper can be understood against this background, since the size of the particles is in the same order as the wavelength of light 400 700 nm , in which case the scattering effect is at its greatest. The aggregates are formed from microcrystals ofMgF2 or CaF2 bound together by a gelled silica polymer. The shape of the aggregates is typically roundish.The size of the aggregates which are formed is influenced by the amount of silica in the mixture and by its gelling and coagulation conditions. By a suitable adjustment of the pH e.g. pH 2 3 or 7 it is easy to remove from the mixture tne desired amount of silica as a sol, for example by filtering or decanting. At a pH of 5 6, silica can be caused to gel rapidly, and when so desire silica can be coagulated or flocculated out from the mixture by using suitable coagulation or flocculation chemicals. Before using the aggregates as additives in paper it is advisable to ensure their good dispersion by effective mixing, which can be made more effective by means of suitable surfactants. The effectiveness of the mixing of the reaction mixture at the reaction stage also has an effect on the size of the aggregates formed.The conditions of the reaction mixture, such as the temperature, the strength of the reagents, and their mthod and order of addition affect the size of the forming microcrystals of Mg72 and CaF2, and thus, further, the size of the aggregates formed. In general, the theory of formation of the aggregates is not known, and the matter must be examined on the basis of experience.The mixture of magnesium fluoride and or calcium fluoride and silica, obtained in the reaction, is usually difficult to treat for example, it may be difficult to filter. By adding to the reaction mixture suitable ions e g. Awl 3 and 504 ions, as suqcested in German Patent Specification DE 05 9 407 238 or a suitable surfactant, e.q. an orqanic amino compound, the mixture can be made easy to handle and to filter. In this case, it is, however, important to take into account that, especially when surfactants are used, it may happen that the size of the aggregates produced in the reaction mixture shifts to an unadvantageous range from the point of view of the opacity effect.Owing to the SiQ2 contained in it, the reaction mixture is also suitable for the preparation of the copying surface of self copying paper. A copying paper system is in general made up of two or more sheets in which the lower surface of each sheet with the exception of the lowest sheet is coated with microcapsules which contain a suitable colourless dye, such as crystal violet lactone or benzoleucomethylene blue, and the upper surface with the exception of the topmost sheet is coated with a layer which contains a suitable colour forming pigment such as active kaolin or bentonite.During writing, the microcapsules on the lower surface of the sheet in the area of the writing trace are broken, the colourless liquid contained in them is released, absorbed in the pigment layer on the upper surface of the sheet below, and converted to its coloured form as a consequence of the surface reaction which occurs, whereupon the written text is in this way seen as a copy trace on the receiving sheet. It is known that silica gel also functions as such a colour forming substance.When a mixture of magnesium fluoride and or calcium fluoride and silica is used for copy pigment purposes it is, of course, advantageous if the amount of SiO2 in the mixture is as high as possible. In a stoichiometric reaction of hydrofluosilicic acid and calcium carbonate,SiO2 is formed in an amount of about 25 of the amount of CaF2. The whole of this amount of SiO2 can be coagulated by known methods to form the product pigment.The mixture of magnesium and or calcium fluoride and silica used in the pigment of the invention has certain advantages over active kaolin and bentonite, which are commonly used as copy pigments. Compared with them it is particularly white, its raw material costs are low, and, when necessary, it can be used directly as the aqueous slurry obtained in the preparation reaction, without a cumbersome and expensive drying.The invention is described below in greater detail with the aid of examples and with reference to the accompanying drawing, which depicts, as functions of the ash content, the effects of different fillers on the light scattering coefficient m2 kg of laboratory sheets basic weight 45 2 prepared from newsprint stock. It is seen from the figure that the light scattering coefficient of newsprint which contains calcium fluoride pigment aggregates in accordance with the invention, bound together by means of gelled silica polymer, is considerably superior to that obtained by using sodium aluminum silicate Zeolex and kaolin, whic have been used for this purpose previously, but not as good as that obtained by using titanium dioxide, which is, however, much more expensive.Example I 120 g CaC03 as a 20 aqueous slurry, particle size 50 loss than 22ur. uas added to 48 g zSiF6 as a 20 aqueous solution in the course of about 10 min, under continuous stirring, at a temperature of 60 C. Ten minutes after the end of the ad itionthe pH of the solution was 5.8 and 1 h after the addition it was 6.2, at which time it was considered that the reaction was complete. The mixture thus obtained was filtered in a Funnel funnel under water suction and washed with an ample amount of water. The dry matter content of the precipitate obtained was 25.9 . This wet precipitate was used as a filler in the making of paper sheets. TheSiC2 content in the precipitate was determined as being d.1 , the size of the CaF2 primary crystals as being 14 nm, and tne size of the secondary particles as being 0.1 0.3 pm. The paper sneets were prepared as single sheets of size 165x165 mm, using a normal laboratory sheet making apparatus and method. The stock used was newsprint stock.Before being added to the stock the piament was dispersed into a suitable amount of water using an Ultra Turrax mixer. At the different testing points pigment was used at 10, 20 and 30 of the total amount of the stock. The ash content of the sheets was determined, and their ISO brightness, their opacity and their scattering and absorption coefficients were measured by means of Elrepho apparatus. The mean ash contents at the different testing points were 2.3 , 3.6 and 6.0 , and the scattering coefficients were respectively 54.1 m2 kg, 55.9 m2 kg and 59.8 m2 kg. Control 1.Using powdered Zeolex 323 manufacturer Zeofinn Oy as the pigment, sheets were made and tested as in Example 1. The mean ash contents at the different testing points were 2.7 , 4.8 and 7.0 , and the scattering coefficients 2 2 2 were respectively 52.8 m kg, 54.3 m kg and 57.0 m kg. Control 2. sin Zeolex 111 in the form of a 40 aqueous slurry as the pigment, sheets ere made and tested as in Example 1. The mean ash contents at the different testing points were 3.3 , 5.5 and 8.4 , and the scattering 2 2 coefficients were respectively 50.5 mê kg, 51.3 mê kg and 52.7 m2 kg. y comparing as a function of the ash content the scattering coefficients presented above it is observed that the values obtained by using CaF2 SiO2 mixture pigments were clearly better than those obtained by using commercial Zeolex pigments.Example 2 40 g H2SiF6 as a 5 aqueous solution was added to 83.3 q CaCO3 a 10 aqueous slurry, particle size 50 less than 2 pm in the course of about 10 min at normal temperature, under continuous stirring. 10 min after the end of the addition,the pH o the mixture was 4.6, whereafter the pH was raised to 8 by means of a NaOH addition. The obtained mixture was filtered in a Boner funnel under water suction and washed with an ample amount of water.The dry matter content of the obtained precipitate was 43.2 . The SiO2 content of the precipitate was determined as being 4.7 , the size of the CaF2 primary crystals as being 15 nm, and the size of the secondary particles as being on average 0.4 pm. The size distribution of the latter was very even. This wet prec itate was used as a filler in the making of paper sheets.Paper sheets were prepared by the procedure described inExample 1. The ash contents corresponding to the use of pigment at 10, 20 and 30 of the total amount of stock were 2.9 , 4.9 and 6.8 , and the light scattering 2 2 coefficients were respectively 58.3 m kg, 59.7 m kg and 2 63.0 in kg. Example 3 3 3.0 kg ii2SiF6 as a 20tao aqueous solution was added to 6.25 kg CaC03 powder as a 20 aqueous slurry, particle size 50 less than 2 m in the course of about 10 min at normal temperature, under continuous vigorous stirring. 10 min after the end of the addition,the pH of the mixture was 3.9 and a further 10 min later it was 4.2, whereafter the pH was raised to 8 by means of a NaOH addition. Thereafter the mixture was treated by means of a centrifuge, the obtained precipitate was reslurried in water in order to wash the precipitate, and the centrifuge treatment was repeated. The dry natter content of the precipitate thus obtained was 55.4 .The SiO2 content of the precipitate was determined as being 8.1 , the size of the CaF2 primary crystals as being 15 n, and the size of the secondary particles as being 0.3 0.6 m. When dried, the precipitate had an ISO brightness of 91.8 .b the experiment presented above was repeated by using 6.6 kg Danish chalk as the source of calcium carbonate as a 20 aqueous slurry, particle size 48 less than 2 m, 97.9 CaCO3 . In this case the pH was 5.8 before the addition of NaOH. The dry matter content of the product was 49.4 .The SiO2 content of tne precipitate was 6.6 , the size of the CaF2 primary crystals was 11 nm and the size of the secondary particles was 0.4 0.8 Vm. When dried, the precipitate had an ISO brightness of 81.2 .The wet pigment precipitates prepared under a and b were used as fillers in the making of paper sheets. The sheets were prepared by the procedure described in Example 1. The stock used was newsprint stock having an ash content of 0.6 , and the light scattering coefficient of a sheet 47.8 g m2 made from it without fillers was 52.9 m2 kg 47.8 g m made from it without fillers was 52.9 m kg and its ISO brightness 56.8 .When pigment 3a was used, the ash contents of the sheets corresponding to tne use of pigment at 10, 20 and 30 of the total amount of tne stock were 2.2 , 3.7 and 6.1 and respectively the light scattering coefficients were 57.4 m2 kg, 61.8 m2 kg and 55.1 m2 kg, and the ISO brightness values were 57.9 , 59.3 and 60.8 . When pigment 3b was used, the ash contents were 2.5 , 4.5 and 6.7 and respectively the light scattering coefficients were 57.4 m2 kg, 61.6 m2 kg and 65.1 m2 kg and the ISO were 57.4 m kg, 61.6 m kg and 65.1 m kg and the ISO brightness values were 57.3 , 58.9 and 60.6 .Control 3.By using Zeolex 111 as the pigment and the stock used in Example 3 as the stock, control sheets were made and tested as in Example 1. The mean ash contents at the different testing points were 3.1 , 5.7 and 8.7 and respectively the light scattering coefficients were 54.4 m2 kg, 55.6 m2 kg and and 56.6 m2 kg and the ISO brightness values 57.2 , 58.6 and 60.2 .Example 4Laboratory sheets g mê were prepared by the procedure presented in Example 1, by using as the stock a fixture which contained 60 SC paper stock and 40 kaolin C. The ash content of the sheets made from this mixture was 20.7 2 and their light scattering coefficient was 64.0 m kg. CaF2 pigment prepared in accordance with Example 3b was added to the above mixture at 10, 20 and 30 of the total stock. The ash contents in the sheets prepared 50 g m2 were at the different testing points 22.3 , 23.4 and 2n.8 and respectively the light scattering coefficients were 66.4 2 2 were 66.4 mê g, 68.9 mê g and 76.1 mê g. The content of CaF2 pigment in the sheets was determined respectively at the different testing points as being 2.5 , 4.0 and 6.3 of the weight of the sheet. For comparison, sheets g mê were made in which kaolinC was used in the addition instead of CaF2 pigment. The ash contents at the different testing points were 23.6 , 27.2 and 30.9 , and the light scattering coefficients 2 2 2 were respectively 65.3 m kg, 68.1 m kg and 69.9 m kg. On the basis of these results it is possible to determine that when in SC paper 4 calculated from the weight of of the paper of the kaolin C filler contained in it is replaced by CaF2 pigment, the opacity of the paper increases by 1 . Likewise it can be determined that by increasing the filler content of SC paper by 2.4 calculated from the weight of the paper while using CaF2 pigment, the opacity of the paper can be increased by 1 t. Example 5 125 g CaC03 as a 20 aqueous slurry was added to 60 gH2SiF6 as a 20 solution in the course of about 10 min under continuous stirring. 10 min after the end of the addition, the pH of the mixture was 4.9 and 1 h after the addition it was 5.3. After filtering, the dry matter content of the precipitate was 25.4 . Thereafter the pH of the precipitate was raised by means of NaOH to 7, and 1 part carboxymethyl cellulose Finnfix 10 manufacturer Metsäliiton Teollisuus Oy and 10 parts latex Dow 675 manufacturer Dow Chemicals were added to it, whereby a paste that can be easily applied to paper surface was obtained. A layer of the paste prepared above was applied to the surface of crude paper basic weight 48 g m2 after the paper had dried the thickness of the layer was determined as being 5 g mê . The surface layer was very white and very even. A copy paper system was prepared by fixing on top of this self made sheet various commercial sheets with a coating of copy colour capsules. The writing trace was produced in the sheets by means of an electric typewriter, and the copy trace was assessed visually. In the self coated sheet the copy trace was strong, and its colour tones were bright. In the commercial sheets the trace was somewhat weaker and the tones clearly dull. The difference in the strength of the copy trace may at least partly be attributable to the fact that in the commercial product the copy pigment layer was evidently thinner than in the self coated sheet. Instead, in the quality of thecolours the difference was evident, especially as regards the bluecolour in the self coated sheet the colour was strongly blue, but in the commercial product it was obtained as purplish black.There was a definite difference also in the colour of the copying surface as such the CaF2 SiO2 mixture pigment surface was pure white, but the surface of the commercial products was somewhat yellowish brown. It till be clear to an expert in the art that pigment aggregates acccrding to the present invention can also be prepared by mixing silica with calcium fluoride and or magnesium fluoride to form an aqueous slurry, whereupon the gelled silica polymer will bind the primary crystals of calcium fluoride and or magnesium fluoride together, forming larger pigment aggregates having a particle size of about 0.1 1 pm, preferably about 0.2 0.6 pm. The SiO2 and CaF2 and or MgF2 required for the forming of these pigment aggregates is, however, formed advantageously in situ by reacting H2SiF6 and a carbonate, hydroxide and or oxide of Ca and or Mg with each other in an aqueous solution in order to form the said gelled silica polymer and the said calcium fluoride and magnesium fluoride microcrystals, which thereafter form the said secondary particles, i.e. pigment aggregates having a size in the same order as the wavelength of ight.One procedure for preparing a filler pigment according to the invention is to add a suitable amount of H2SiF6 to aCaCC3 slurry used as a filler or a coating pigment, whereby a mixture of CaC03 and the filler pigment according to theInvention is obtained, and this mixture can be used as a filler pigment.