# Photoconductive devices containing perylene dye compositions

## Claims
Auf Licht ansprechende Vorrichtung, dadurch gekennzeichnet, daß sie ein Trägersubstrat und eine photoleitfähige Schicht umfaßt, die einen löslichen Perylenfarbstoff und eine Diaminverbindung dispergiert in einem Harz umfaßt, wobei der Perylenfarbstoff entweder die Formel

## Description
This invention is generally directed to photoresponsive devices of the kind comprising a supporting substrate and a photoconductive layer. Numerous different xerographic photoconductive members are known including, for example, a homogeneous layer of a single material such as vitreous selenium, or a composite layered device containing a dispersion of a photoconductive composition. An example of one type of composite xerographic photoconductive member is described for example, in US Patent 3 121 006, wherein there is disclosed finely divided particles of a photoconductive inorganic compound dispersed in an electrically insulating organic resin binder. The binder materials disclosed in this patent comprise a material which is incapable of transporting for any significant distance injected charge carriers generated by the photoconductive particles. Accordingly, as a result, the photoconductive particles must be in a substantially contiguous particle to particle contact throughout the layer for the purpose of permitting charge dissipation required for a cyclic operation. Thus, with the uniform dispersion of photoconductive particles described, a relatively high volume concentration of photoconductor material, about 50 percent by volume, is usually necessary in order to obtain sufficient photoconductor particle to particle contact for rapid discharge. This high photoconductive loading can result in destroying the physical continuity of the resinous binder, thus significantly reducing the mechanical properties thereof. Illustrative examples of specific binder materials disclosed in the 006 patent include, for example, polycarbonate resins, polyester resins, polyamide resins, and the like. There are also known photoreceptor materials comprised of inorganic or organic materials wherein the charge carrier generating, and charge carrier transport functions, are accomplished by discrete contiguous layers. Additionally, layered photoreceptor materials are disclosed in the prior art which include an overcoating layer of an electrically insulating polymeric material. However, the art of xerography continues to advance and more stringent demands need to be met by the copying apparatus in order to increase performance standards, and to obtain higher quality images. Also, there are desired layered ambipolar photoresponsive imaging members. Recently, there have been disclosed other layered photoresponsive devices including those comprised of separate generating layers, and transport layers, reference U.S. Patent 4,265,990, and overcoated photoresponsive materials containing a hole injecting layer, overcoated with a hole transport layer, followed by an overcoating of a photogenerating layer, and a top coating of an insulating organic resin, reference U.S. Patent 4,251,612. Examples of photogenerating layers disclosed in these patents include trigonal selenium and phthalocyanines, while examples of transport layers illustrated include certain diamines. Many other patents are in existence describing photoresponsive devices including layered devices containing generating substances, such as U.S. Patent 3,041,167, which discloses an overcoated imaging member containing a conductive substrate, a photoconductive layer, and an overcoating layer of an electrically insulating polymeric material. This member is utilized in an electrophotographic copying method by, for example, initially charging the member, with an electrostatic charge of a first polarity, and imagewise exposing to form an electrostatic latent image which can be subsequently developed to form a visible image. Prior to each succeeding imaging cycle, the imaging member can be charged with an electrostatic charge of a second polarity, which is opposite in polarity to the first polarity. Sufficient additional charges of the second polarity are applied so as to create across the member a net electrical field of the second polarity. Simultaneously, mobile charges of the first polarity are created in the photoconductive layer such as by applying an electrical potential to the conductive substrate. The imaging potential which is developed to form the visible image, is present across the photoconductive layer and the overcoating layer. There is also disclosed in Belgium Patent 763,540, an electrophotographic member having at least two electrically operative layers, the first layer comprising a photoconductive layer which is capable of photogenerating charge carriers, and injecting the carriers into a continuous active layer containing an organic transporting material which is substantially non absorbing in the spectral region of intended use, but which is active in that it allows the injection of photogenerated holes from the photoconductive layer and allows these holes to be transported through the active layer. Additionally, there is disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,041,116, a photoconductive material containing a transparent plastic material overcoated on a layer of vitreous selenium contained on a substrate. Furthermore, there is disclosed in U.S. Patents 4,232,102 and 4,233,383, photoresponsive imaging members comprised of trigonal selenium doped with sodium carbonate, sodium selenite, and trigonal selenium doped with barium carbonate, and barium selenite or mixtures thereof. Additionally, the use of squaraine pigments in photoresponsive imaging devices is known, reference, for example, the disclosure contained in a co pending application wherein there is described an improved photoresponsive device containing a substrate, a hole blocking layer, an optional adhesive interface layer, an organic photogenerating layer, a photoconductive composition capable of enhancing or reducing the intrinsic properties of the photogenerating layer, and a hole transport layer. As photoconductive compositions for this device there can be selected various squaraine pigments, including hydroxy squaraine compositions. Moreover, there is disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,824,099, certain photosensitive hydroxy squaraine compositions. According to the disclosure of this patent the squaraine compositions are photosensitive in normal electrostatographic imaging systems. The use of certain selected perylene pigments as photoconductive substances is also known. There is thus described in Hoechst, European Patent Publication 0040402, BE3019326, filed 5 21 80, the use of N,N disubstituted perylene 3,4,9,10, tetracarboxyl diimide pigments as photoconductive substances. Specifically there is disclosed in this publication dual layered photoreceptors, with improved spectral response in the wavelength region of 400 to 700 nanometers containing evaporated N,N bis 3 methoxypropyl perylene 3,4,9,10 tetracarboxyldiimide. It is important to note that these perylenes are insoluble pigments, accordingly photoconductive devices with such compositions must be prepared by costly and complex vacuum evaporation techniques. A similar disclosure is contained in Ernst Junther Schlosser, Journal of Applied Photographic Engineering, Vol. 4, No. 3, page 118 1978 . Also dual layered photoreceptors prepared from the perylene pigments as described in the above mentioned 0040402 publication can only be charged negatively thus requiring the use of positively charged toner compositions. Moreover, there is disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,419,427 electrophotographic recording mediums with a photosemiconductive double layer comprised of a first layer containing charge carrier producing dyes, and a second layer containing one or more compounds which are charge carrier transporting materials when exposed to light wherein perylene diimides are employed as the charge carrier producing dyes, reference the disclosure in Column 2, beginning at line 50. Also of interest is the background information included in Columns 1 and 2 and particularly in Column 2, beginning at line 20 wherein perylene dyes of the formula as shown are illustrated, which dyes are substantially similar to the dyes selected for the photoresponsive devices of the present invention. Examples of charge carrier transporting compounds disclosed in the 427 patent include pyrazoline derivatives, oxazoles materials, triphenylamine derivatives, carbazole derivatives, and pyrene derivatives, as well as other materials, reference the disclosure in Column 4, beginning at line 1. While photoresponsive imaging members containing the above described compositions may be suitable for their intended purposes, there continues to be a need for the development of improved members or devices, particularly layered devices. Additionally, there continues to be a need for imaging members comprised of specific amine charge transport compositions and perylene dye photogenerating materials possessing desirable sensitivity, low dark decay, high charge acceptance values, and wherein these members can be used for a number of imaging cycles in a xerographic imaging apparatus, or in printing devices. Further, there continues to be a need for photoresponsive devices which are ambipolar, thus permitting both normal and reverse copying of black and white, or color images. These devices which generate both positive and negative charges, that is both holes and electrons, can be repeatedly used in a number of imaging cycles without deterioration thereof from the machine environment or surrounding conditions. Moreover, there continues to be a need for improved layered imaging members wherein the materials selected are substantially inert to users of these members. Furthermore, there continues to be a need for layered devices which can be charged positively only, negatively only, or are ambipolar. Also, there continues to be a need for photoconductive materials which can be fabricated into imaging devices by simple coating techniques, and wherein these materials are preferably soluble in common coating solvents, and are compatible with the resinous binder resins selected. The present invention is intended to meet these needs, and provides a photoresponsive device comprising a supporting substrate, and a photoconductive layer comprising a soluble perylene dye and a diamine compound dispersed in a resin, the perylene dye being either of the formula wherein at least one of R₁, R₂, and R₃, and at least one of R₁ , R₂ , and R₃ are independently selected from alkyl groups, substituted alkyl groups, aryl groups, and substituted aryl groups, any remaining R or R being H or comprising N,N di Z perylene 3,4,9,10 tetracarboxyldiimide, wherein Z is any one of the following 4, dimethylaminophenyl , 2 methyl 4 chlorophenyl , 2,4,6 trimethoxyphenyl , 2, 5 dichlorophenyl and the diamine compound being of the formula wherein X is selected from the group consisting of ortho CH₃ , meta CH₃ , para CH₃ , ortho Cl , meta Cl , para Cl . Thus, in one embodiment, the present invention envisions the use of certain perylene dye aggregate compositions as organic photoconductive materials in photoresponsive devices, in combination with specific hole transport layers such as diamine layers. In one important feature of the present invention the imaging member is ambipolar, that is it can be charged either positively, or negatively. Photoresponsive devices containing the perylene compositions disclosed in combination with amine hole transport substances are useful in electrophotographic imaging systems, especially xerographic systems, wherein negatively charged, or positively charged images are developed with toner compositions of the appropriate charge. Examples of alkyl groups include those containing of from about 1 to about 20 carbon atoms, and preferably from 1 to about 7 carbon atoms, such as methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl, hexyl, heptyl, octyl, nonyl, pentyl, and the like, with methyl, ethyl, propyl and butyl being preferred. Moreover, the alkyl groups can be substituted with other substituents providing that the objectives of the present invention are achieved, these substituents including, for example, halogen, aryl, nitro, and the like. Each of the R substituents can be comprised of identical alkyl groups, or each of the R substituents may be different alkyl groups. Thus, for example, R₁ on the first ring structure may be a methyl group, while R Illustrative examples of aryl groups include those containing from about 6 to about 24 carbon atoms, such as phenyl, napthyl, anthracyl, and the like, with phenyl being preferred. Additionally, the aryl groups can be substituted with substituents such as alkyl as defined herein, halogen, and the like. As is the situation with the alkyl substituents, the aryl groups can be comprised of the same substituents, thus R₁ on the first ring structure and R₁ on the second ring structure can be phenyl. Similarly, R₂ and R₃ on the first ring structure can be a phenyl group, while R₂ and R3 on the second ring structure are also phenyl substituents. Also, R₁ on the first ring structure may be a phenyl substituent, while R₁ on the second ring structure is a napthyl substituent. Illustrative specific examples of perylene dyes included within the scope of the present invention and embraced by the above formula are N,N di 2 4 6 trimethyl phenyl perylene 3.4.9.10 tetracarboxyldiimide, N,N di para dimethylaminophenyl perylyene 3,4,9,10 tetracarboxyldiimide, N,N di N butyl perylyene 3,4,9,10 tetracarboxyldiimide, N,N di 2 ,4 ditertiarybutylphenyl perylyene 3,4,9,10 tetracarboxyldiimide, N,N di 2 ,5 ditertiarybutylphenyl perylyene 3,4,9,10 tetracarboxyldiimide, N,N di 2 ,6 dimethylphenyl perylyene 3,4,9,10 tetracarboxyldiimide, N,N di 2 ,6 dimethyl 4 tertiarybutylphenyl perylyene 3,4,9,10 tetracarboxyldiimide, N,N di 2 tertiarybutylphenyl perylyene 3,4,9,10 tetracarboxyldiimide, N,N di 2 ,4 ,6 trimethoxyphenyl perylyene 3,4,9,10 tetracarboxyldiimide, N,N di 2,5 dichlorophenyl perylyene 3,4,9,10 tetracarboxyldiimide, and N,N di 2.methyl 4 chlorophenyl perylyene 3,4,9.10 tetracarboxyldiimide, and the like. The perylene compositions illustrated herein are generally prepared by the condensation reaction of perylene 3,4,9,10 tetracarboxylic acid or its corresponding anhydrides with trisubstitued anilines in quinoline, in the presence of a cataylst, and with heating at elevated temperatures, as described for example in German Patent Publications 2,454,178, 2,451,781, 2,451,783, 2,451,783, 2,451,784, 2,451,782, 3,016,765, French Patent 7,723,888 and British Patents 857,130, 901,694, and 1,095,196. More specifically, the perylene dyes of the present invention can be prepared by heating the respective reactants to a tempreature of between about 180 degrees centigrade to about 230 degrees centigrade in the presence of a zinc chloride cataylst as illustrated in the following equation wherein R₁, R₂,and R₃ are as defined herein. In one illustrative embodiment, the perylene dyes of the present invention are prepared by the condensation reaction of perylene 3,4,9,10 tetracarboxylic acid, or its corresponding anhydrides with trisubstitued anilines in a molar ratio of from about 1 2 to about 1 10 and preferably in a ratio of from about 1 2 to about 1 3. The reaction is generally accomplished at a temperature of from about 180 degrees centigrade to about 230 degrees centigrade and preferably at a temperature of about 210 degrees centigrade with stirring until the reaction is completed. Subsequently, the desired product is isolated from the reaction mixture by known techniques such as filtration, and identified by analytical tools including NMR, mass spectroscopy, and elemental analysis for carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen. Examples of acid, and anhydride reactants include perylene 3,4,9,10 tetracarboxylic acid and perylene 3,4,9,10 tetracarboxylic acid dianhydride. Examples of trisubstituted anilines reactants include 2,4,6 trimethylaniline, 2,6 dimethylaniline and N,N dimethyl para phenylenediamine, 2,6dimethyl 4 tertiarybutylaniline, 2 tertiarybutylaniline, 2,4,6 trimethoxyaniline, 2,5 dichloroaniline, 2 methyl 4 chloroaniline, 2,5 ditertiarybutylaniline, and the like. Also useful are aliphatic amines including N butyl amine, cyclohexyl amines, adamantyl amine, and the like. Cataylsts that can be used include known effective materials, suchas anhydrous zinc chloride, anhydrous zinc acetate, zinc oxide, and the like. Numerous different layered photoresponsive devices containing the perylene dyes illustrated herein can be fabricated. In one embodiment, the layered photoresponsive devices are comprised of a supporting substrate, containing a coating thereover of the perylene dyes illustrated. admixed with a specific hole transporting substance, and a polymeric binder. The ratio of the perylene dye to the transporting substance varies and is dependent upon a number of factors, however, generally this ratio is from about 1 1 to about 1 20, and preferably is from about 1 1.5 to about 1 2. The ratio of dye hole transport molecule dispersed in the inactive resinous binder polymer varies from about 1 1 to 1 2, and preferably is from about 1 1.1 to about 1 1.5. These devices are ambipolar and can be charged either positively or negatively. Moreover, there is provided in accordance with the present invention an improved negatively charged photoresponsive device, comprised of a supporting substrate, a photoconductive layer comprised of the perylene dyes of the present invention admixed with a hole transporting material dispersed in a polymeric resinous binder composition, and as a top layer specific diamine hole transporting substance dispersed in a inactive resinous binder. In another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a photoconductive device comprised of a supporting substrate, a specific diamine transporting layer of a material capable of transporting positive charges, and as a top coating the perylene dyes illustrated, The improved photoresponsive devices of the present invention can be prepared by a number of known methods, the process parameters and the order of coating of the layers being dependent on the device desired. Thus, for example, a three layered photoresponsive member can be prepared by vacuum sublimation of the photoconducting layer on a supporting substrate, and subsequently depositing by solution coating the hole transport layer. In another process variant, the layered photoresponsive device can be prepared by providing a conductive substrate, and applying thereto by solvent coating processes, laminating processes, or other methods, the perylene dye photoconductive composition. The improved photoresponsive imaging members or devices of the present invention can be incorporated into various imaging systems, such as those conventionally known as xerographic imaging processes. Additionally, the improved photoresponsive devices of the present invention containing an inorganic photogenerating layer, and a photoconductive layer comprised of the perylenes of the present invention can function simultaneously in imaging and printing systems. For a better understanding of the present invention and further features thereof, reference is made to the following detailed description of various preferred embodiments wherein Illustrated in Figure 1 is the ambipolar photoresponsive imaging member or device of the present invention comprised of a substrate 1, and a photoconductive layer 3, comprised of the perylene dyes illustrated herein. preferably admixed with a diamine hole transporting substance in a ratio of from about 1 1 to about 1 20, optionally dispsersed in a resinous binder composition 4. Illustrated in Figure 2 is essentially the same device as illustrated in Figure 1, with the exception that there is further included as a top layer 5, specific diamine hole transporting materials dispersed in an inactive resinous binder. This device is primarily useful in a negative charging mode. Illustrated in Figure 3 is an improved photoresponsive device of the present invention, comprised of a substrate 8, a diamine hole transport layer 9, and a top overcoating layer 11 comprised of the perylene dyes illustrated herein. In this embodiment the photoconductive or photogenerating dye is usually comprised of the perylene dye dispersed in a resin, and preferably admixed with a diamine hole transporting substance. Illustrated in Figure 4 is one preferred ambipolar photoresponsive device of the present invention, wherein the substrate 15 is comprised of aluminum in a thickness of 75 microns, containing thereover in a thickness of 5 to 25 microns a layer 17 of a photoconductive composition comprised of the perylene dye N,N di 2 4 6 trimethyl phenyl perylene 3.4.9.10 tetracarboxyldiimide, in an amount of 18 percent by weight, admixed with 27 percent by weight of N,N diphenyl N,N bis 3 methylphenyl 1,1 biphenyl 4,4 diamine, dispersed in 55 percent by weight of a polycarbonate resinous binder 19. Illustrated in Figure 5 is a negatively charged photoresponsive device of the present invention comprised of an aluminum substrate 23 in a thickness of 75 microns, containing thereover in a thickness of 0.1 to 5 microns a layer of photoconductive composition 25, comprised of the perylene dye N,N di 2 4 6 trimethyl phenyl perylene 3.4.9.10 tetracarboxyldiimide, in an amount of 18 percent by weight, admixed with percent 27 by weight of N,N diphenyl N,N bis 3 methylphenyl 1,1 biphenyl 4,4 diamine, dispersed in 55 percent by weight of a polycarbonate resinous binder 26, and as an overcoating layer 27 in a thickness of 25 microns the hole transporting material N,N diphenyl N,N bis 3 methylphenyl 1,1 biphenyl 4,4 diamine, dispersed in 50 percent by weight of a polycarbonate resinous binder 29. Illustrated In Figure 6 is a positively charged photoresponsive device of the present invention comprised of an aluminum substrate 31, in a thickness of 75 microns, a hole transporting layer 35, comprised of N,N diphenyl N,N bis 3 methylphenyl 1,1 biphenyl 4,4 diamine dispersed in a polycarbonate resinous binder 36, and a photoconductive layer 37 comprised of the perylene dye N,N di 2 4 6 trimethyl phenyl perylene 3,4,9,10 tetracarboxyldiimide, in an amount of 18 percent by weight, admixed with 27 percent by weight of N,N diphenyl N,N bis 3 methylphenyl 1,1 biphenyl 4,4 diamine, dispersed in 55 percent by weight of a polycarbonate resinous binder 38. The substrate layers may be opaque or substantially transparent, and may comprise any suitable material having the requisite mechanical properties. Thus the substrate may comprise a layer of insulating material such as an inorganic or organic polymeric material, including Mylar The thickness of the substrate layer depends on many factors, including economical considerations, thus this layer may be of substantial thickness, for example, over 2.5 mm, or of minimum thickness, providing there are no adverse effects on the system. In one preferred embodiment the thickness of this layer ranges from about 75 microns to about 250 microns. A very important layer for the photoresponsive device of the present invention is the perylene dye photoconductive layer comprised of the compositions disclosed herein. These compositions are generally electronically compatible with the charge carrier transport layer, in order that photoexcited charge carriers can be injected ink the transport layer, and further in order that charge carriers can travel in both directions across the interface between the photoconductive layer and the charge transport layer. Also these dyes are electron acceptors, and transport negative charges. Generally, the thickness of the perylene photoconductive layer depends on a number of factors including the thicknesses of the other layers, and the percent mixture of photoconductive material contained in this layer. Accordingly, this layer can range in thickness of from about 0.05 microns to about 50 microns when the photoconductive perylene composition is present in an amount of from about 5 percent to about 100 percent by volume, and preferably this layer ranges in thickness of from about 0.25 microns to about 10 microns, when the photoconductive perylene composition is present in this layer in an amount of 30 percent by volume. The maximum thickness of this layer is dependent primarily upon factors such as mechanical considerations, for example whether a flexible photoresponsive device is desired. The photogenerating or the photoconductive materials can comprise 100 percent by weight of the respective layers, or these materials can be dispersed in various suitable resinous polymer binder materials, in amounts of from about 5 percent by weight to about 95 percent by weight, and preferably in amounts of from about 25 percent by weight to about 75 percent by weight. Illustrative examples of polymeric binder resinous materials that can be selected include those as disclosed for example, in U.S. Patent 3,121,006, the disclosure of which is totally incorporated herein by reference, polyesters, polyvinyl butyral, Formvar The charge carrier transport material may be incorporated into the perylene photoconductive layer in amounts, for example, of from about zero weight percent to about 60 weight percent. With respect to the charge carrier transport material selected, reference layer 9 of Figure 3, for example, which layer is generally of a thickness of from about 5 microns to about 50 microns, and preferably from about 10 microns to about 40 microns, it is comprised of molecules of the formula dispersed in a highly insulating and transparent organic resinous binder wherein X is an alkyl group of from about 1 to about 6 carbon atoms, or a halogen, especially those substituents selected from the group consisting of ortho CH₃, meta CH₃, para CH₃, ortho Cl, meta Cl, para Cl. The highly insulating resin, has a resistivity of at least 10¹² ohm cm to prevent undue dark decay. However, the resin becomes electrically active when it contains from about 10 to 75 weight percent of the substituted N,N,N ,N tetraphenyl 1,1 biphenyl 4 4 diamines corresponding to the foregoing formula. Compounds corresponding to the above formula include, for example, N,N diphenyl N,N bis alkylphenyl 1,1 biphenyl 4,4 diamine wherein alkyl is selected from the group consisting of methyl such as 2 methyl, 3 methyl and 4 methyl, ethyl, propyl, buyl, hexyl and the like. With chloro substitution, the amine is N,N diphenyl N,N bis halo phenyl 1,1 biphenyl 4,4 diamine wherein the halo atom is 2 chloro, 3 chloro or 4 chloro. Examples of the highly insulating and transparent resinous material or inactive binder resinous material selected for the diamine transport substances include the materials such as those described in U.S. Patent 3,121,006. Also included within the scope of the present invention are methods of imaging with the photoresponsive devices illustrated herein. These methods of imaging generally involve the formation of an electrostatic latent image on the imaging member, followed by developing the image with a suitable toner composition, subsequently transferring the image to a suitable substrate and permanently affixing the image thereto. In those environments wherein the device is to be used in a printing mode, the imaging method involves the same steps with the exception that the exposure step can be accomplished with a laser device, or image bar, in addition to a broad spectrum white light source. The invention will now be described in detail with reference to specific preferred embodiments thereof, it being understood that these examples are intended to be illustrative only. The invention is not intended to be limited to the materials, conditions, or process parameters recited herein, it being noted that all parts and percentages are by weight unless otherwise indicated. There was dissolved in 45 milliliters of quinoline, 8.49 grams of 3,4,9,10 perylene tetracarboxylic dianhydride, 11.7 grams 2,4,6 trimethylaniline, and 1.73 grams zinc acetate. The resulting mixture was then heated for four hours at 205 210 UV CH₂Cl₂ nm log e 524 4.85 , 488 4.64 , 459 4.2 There was dissolved in 40 milliliters of quinoline, 5 grams of 3,4,9,10 perlyene tetracarboxylic dianhydride, 6.9 grams of N N dimethyl p phenylene diamine, and 2 grams of zinc acetate. The mixture was then heated to boiling for five hours, followed by cooling to room temperature. The solid brown product was filtered and washed with hot ethyl alcohol 150 ml and dried in a vacuum oven. The product, N N bis 4 dimethylaminodimethylphenyl perylene 3,4,9,10 tetracarboxyl diimide, of the following formula was obtained in a yield of 70 and was characterized by spectroscopic and elemental analysis techniques, as described in Example I. There was dissolved in 50 milliliters of dichloromethane, 5.3 grams of a polycarbonate resin Merlon 60 . To this solution 2.9 grams of the hole transport molecule. N,N diphenyl N,N bis 3 methylphenyl 1,1 biphenyl 4.4 diamine were added and the resulting mixture stirred until solution was completed. To 10 ml of this solution was added 0.18 gram of the perylene dye, N,N bis 2,4,6 trimethylphenyl perylene 3,4,9,10 tetracarboxyldiimide as prepared in accordance with Example I. When the dye had dissolved, the mixture was coated onto a thin aluminum sheet and dried, yielding a deep orange film of 20 microns thickness. The photosensitivity of the above prepared member, as well as the following members, was then determined as follows. The surface of the layer away from the aluminum support was electrostatically charged under a corona discharge source until the surface potential as measured by a capacitively coupled probe attached to an electrometer attained an initial dark value, V The photosensitivity of the above member unexposed to solvent vapour is listed in the following table This device is photosensitive, either in a positive or negative charging mode as the surface potential can be light modulated. Specifically, for example, the exposure required to reduce the surface potential, 390 volts to one half this value, 195 volts , is 350 mJ.m ². When the above device was fumed for 15 minutes with 1,1,2 trichloroethane vapour the colour of the film changed to deep red. The absorption Spectrum 1 for the untreated member or device had peaks at 530, 490 and 465 nm, while the Spectrum 2 for the 1,1,2 trichloroethane fumed film is shifted with peaks at 555,510 and a shoulder at 470 nm. The photosensitivity of the fumed member was then determined as indicated herein, and found to be higher than the unfumed member as shown in the following table in that the E For the purpose of comparison, a commercially available conventional double layer photoconductive element consisting of a thin 100 nm evaporated film of N,N bis methyl perylene 3,4,9,10 tetracarboxyldiimide pigment as charge generator, and a thick 10 mm hole transport layer of 2,5 bis p diethylaminophenyl 2,3,4 oxidiezol dispersed in a polyester resin was fabricated, and the photosensitivity thereof compared with the 10 mm single layer photoconductive element of the present invention, consisting of 20 percent by weight of N,N bis 2,4,6 trimethylphenyl perylene 3,4,9,10 tetracarboxyldiimide, 30 N,N diphenyl N,N bis 3 methylphenyl 1,1 biphenyl 4,4 diamine and 50 percent by volume of a polycarbonate resin. While the double layer photoconductive element can be charged and discharged with negative charging only, the single layer photoconductive element was ambipolar, as illustrated by the following data. The double layer could not be charged positively. This example demonstrates the relative photosensitivity modification obtained by changing the relative concentration of the sensitizing perylene dye in the photoconductive element of Example III. A series of single layer 15 mm members were prepared by repeating the process as described in Example III with the hole transport electron donor N,N diphenyl N,N bis 3 methylphenyl 1,1 biphenyl 4,4 diamine, polycarbonate resin and the sensitizing dye N,N bis 2,4,6 trimethylphenyl perylene 3,4,9,10 tetracarboxyldiimide. The dye concentration was varied from 1 to 30 by weight. The photosensitivity after fuming as described in Example III of these elements were determined as described above and the results are shown in the following table Dual layer photoconductive elements were prepared consisting of a 2 mm range 0.1 3.0 mm of the perylene photoconductive composition of Example I by repeating the procedure of Example III, as a charge generation layer overcoated with a thick 17 mm range 5 100 mm charge transport layer of 1 1 N,N diphenyl N,N bis 3 methylphenyl 1,1 biphenyl 4,4 diamine in polycarbonate Makrolon, Bayer Trade Mark . This double layer photoconductive element was charged negatively and was photosensitive to light in the wavelength region of 400 to 700 nm, E A photoresponsive device was prepared by repeating the procedure of Example V with the exception that the charge generating layer was overcoated on top of the charge transport layer. The resulting device was positively charged and was photosensitive to light in the wavelength region of 400 700 nanometers nm . A photoresponsive device was prepared by repeating the procedure of Example III, with the exception that the sensitizing dye selected was N,N bis p dimethylaminophenyl perylene 3,4,9,10 tetracarboxyldiimide and such a device had substantially similar photosensitivity as the device of Example III.