# Chest band.

## Abstract
A chest band is worn just above the breasts of a woman to prevent discomfort or injury due to up and down motion of the breasts during exercise, the chest band comprising a longitudinally elastic strap 12,18 and means 14 for joining the two ends of the strap together, the strap being mounted around the chest close to the armpits and above the breasts. The strap may carry lateral ribs 18 to prevent lateral dis placement of the strap.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A chest band to be worn during exercise to prevent breast discomfort or injury, comprising a strap 12, 18 which is sufficiently long to allow it to surround the chest on the area immediately above the breasts and means 14, 16 for connecting the two ends of said strap to getter 2. A chest band according to Claim 1 wherein said means for connecting the two ends of the strap together comprises a fabric portion 16 attached to one side of the strap at one end thereof and a plastics portion 14 attached to the other side of the strap at the opposite end thereof and containing a multitude of hooks which are engageable with the fabric portion to form an attachment sufficiently durable to withstand the forces exerted during exercise. 3. A chest band according to Claim 1 or 2 wherein said strap is made of a flexible, longitudinally elastic material. 4. A chest band according to Claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein said strap has a series of equally spaced rib portions 18 extending upward from the lower edge of the strap approximately to the longitudinal medion line of the strap. 5. A chest band to be worn during exercise to prevent breast discomfort or injury, comprising a strap made of a flexible, elastic material which is sufficiently long to surround the chest during exercise and which is sufficiently stretchable so that it will not interfere with the expansion and contraction of the chest during breathing the strap having numerous spaced ribs extending from the lower edge of the strap approximately to its longitudinal medion line and means for fastening the two ends of the strap together, said means including a first portion on one side of the strap at one end thereof, constructed of a fibrous material and a second portion sewn to the other side of the strap at the opposite end thereof and constructed of plastics and having a multitude of hooks which engage the fibrous material of the first portion when in use. 6. A chest band to be worn by a woman during exercise to prevent discomfort or injury to her breasts, the band comprising a strap 12, 18 in the form of a length of flexible fabric which is longitudinally elastic, and fastening means 14, 16 at each end of the strap engageable to form a continuous band, the length of the strap being such that the band can be firmly fastened around the chest so as to extend above and adjacent to the breasts. 7. A method of supporting the breasts of a woman to prevent discomfort or injury during exercise, comprising fixing a longitudinally elastic, fabric band around the chest the band being located close to the armpits and above the breasts.

## Description
CHEST BAND This invention relates to a chest band, and more particularly to a band worn across the chest of a woman during exercise to prevent discomfort or possible injury to the chest or breasts during the exercise. Various types of brassieres have been developed in the past to provide support to the breasts of women while exercising. With the advent and increased popularity of aerobic exercises, which involve constant jumping, hopping and skipping for extended periods of time, these brassieres have not proven to be adequate, especially for large breasted women, to protect the delicate breast tissues from injury due to constant up and down movement of the breasts during exercise. Accordingly, it is an object of the present invention to provide a chest band for use in controlling the up and down movement of the breasts during vigorous exercise, which is comfortable to wear. The features of invention are as set out in Claim 1 of the appended claims. In the preferred embodiment, the chest band comprises a unitary elastic band which is ribbed and has a Velcro RTM fastener. The band is approximately two and one half inches 6.3 cm wide with a first set of ribs on the band extending from one edge of the band to approximately its longitudinal centre line. When in use, the band is placed around the chest, not on the breasts, but immediately above them, with the first set of ribs extending downwardly, whereby up and down motion of the breasts is restricted. A snug fit is insured by joining the two ends of the band in front of the Velcro fastener.Once the band is properly in place, the woman can put on her regular bra and her exercise clothes and commence exercising. Reference is now made to the accompanying drawings, wherein Figure 1 is a perspective view of a chest band according to the invention showing each of the separate parts of the chest band and Figure 2 shows the chest band as it is intended to be worn. In Figure 1, the chest band 10 is shown as comprising a long elastic strap, which is capable of longitudinal elastic expansion. The elastic strap is substantially smooth on the upper half 12 and has uniformly spaced ribs 18 on the bottom half. The ribs 18 extend generally perpendicularly to the length of the band from the lower edge of the band to approximately its midpoint and serve to prevent lateral movement of the strap relative to the wearer s body during strenuous exercise. In an alternative embodiment, the upper half 12, instead of being smooth incorporates a second set of uniformly spaced ribs which are perpendicular to ribs 18. This second set of ribs prevent longitudinal movement of the strap relative to the wearer s body during exercise. As is shown further in Figure 1, sewn to one side of one end of the strap is a piece of loosely woven or nonwoven synthetic or cotton fabric 16. Sewn to the other side at the other end of the strap is a longer piece of material 14 containing a series of closely spaced plastic hooks. The two ends of the strap can be joined together by pressing the fabric patch 16 against the plastic hook patch 14, thereby forming a durable bond between the two ends of the strap to allow for exercise to be done comfortably. Such attachment means is sold under the registered Trade Mark Velcro . Figure 2 shows the proper positioning of the chest band 10. As is shown in this figure, the chest band 10 is wrapped around the torso in a position immediately above the breasts and immediately below the armpits. It is not intended that the strap be worn directly on the breasts, but rather that it be worn on the chest above the breasts. Wearing the strap in this position limits, in an effective but comfortable fashion, up and down movement of the breasts which can cause injury during exercise. Due to the elasticity of the band, and its placing, and longitudinal adjustment permitted by the fastener, the band may be wearable by many women of different sizes.