# Remote control transmitter.

## Abstract
A remote control transmitter comprising a first switch group on one side of the transmitter and a second switch group on the same side as or the other side of the first switch group. The first switch group includes a plurality of key tops exposed on the surface of the transmitter and the second switch group is covered with a flexible sheet.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A remote control transmitter comprising a first switch group having a plurality of key tops protruding from one side of the transmitter casing, and a second switch group covered with a flexible sheet. 2. A remote control transmitter comprising a first switch group having a plurality of key tops protruding from one side of the transmitter casing, and a second switch group covered with a flexible sheet on the other side of the transmitter casing.

## Description
Remote Control TransmitterBackground of the Invention The present invention relates to a remote control transmitter for controlling an electronic appliance such as a television receiver or a video tape recorder. Recently, composite electronic equipment composed of different kinds of electronic appliances has been developed.An example of such equipment is a video television set, a combination of a television receiver and a video tape recorder. Remote control devices adapted for controlling the composite electronic equipment have also been developed. Conventional remote control transmitters developed for the composite electronic equipment are provided with a plurality of push button switches on both sides of the transmitter casing to effect multiple functions. In some examples of the conventional remote control transmitters, the key tops of the push button switches protrude from both sides of the transmitter casing. Therefore, when a pushbutton switch is actuated for a remote control operation, with the transmitter placed on a table, the key tops of the push button switches on the other side of the transmitter may be depressed, causing faulty operation. Summary of the Invention Accordingly, an object of the present invention is to provide a novel remote control transmitter from which the above mentioned disadvantage has been eliminated. Another object of the present invention is to provide a remote control transmitter both sides of which are provided with operating sections respectively in such a manner to minimize the possibility of faulty operation in controlling a composite electronic equipment such as a combination of a television receiver and a video tape recorder. Other objects and further scope of applicability of the present invention will become apparent from the detailed description given hereinafter. It should be understood, however, that the detailed description of and specific examples, while indicating preferred embodiments of the invention, are given by way of illustration only, since various changes and modifications within the spirit and scope of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from this detailed description. In a remote control transmitter of an embodiment of the present invention, a first switch group having a plurality of exposed key tops is provided on one side of the transmitter, and a second switch group covered with a flexible sheet is provided on the other side of the transmitter.Accordingly, any desired switch in the first switch group can be set on or off by depressing the corresponding key top, thus facilitating the remote control operation of the electronic equipment. Moreover, according to this embodiment, even if the key top of a switch in the first switch group is depressed with the transmitter placed on a table, the second switch group can never by actuated for faulty operation due to the flexible sheet cover. In addition, a desired switch in the second switch group can be set on or off by depressing the predetermined corresponding position on the sheet, as required for effecting different remote control operation of the electronic equipment.Brief Description of the DrawingsThe present invention will be better understood from the detailed description given hereinbelow and the accompanying drawing which is given by way of illustration only, and this is not limitative of the present invention and wherein The drawing is a partially broken side sectional view of the remote control transmitter of an embodiment of the present invention.Detailed Description of the InventionThe present invention will be described in detail below with reference to the drawing showing an example of the present invention. Similar to the usual remote control transmitter casing, a transmitter casing 1 contains a transmitting decoder circuit, a luminous element and a battery which are not shown . Two substrates 3 and 3 are arranged in parallel with each other within the casing 1. Each substrate 3 or 3 contains a plurality of printed wired contacts 2a and 2b or 2a and 2b . An elastic mat 4 or 4 made of resilient material such as rubber is superposed on the substrate 3 or 3 . The elastic mat 4 or 4 has recesses 4a or 4a at the position corresponding to the contacts 2a and 2b or 2a and 2b on the substrate 3 or 3 .A short bar 5 or 5 made of conductive material such as carbon is mounted on the bottom of each recess 4a or 4a . Through holes 6, 6 ... are provided in the upper wall of the casing 1 at positions corresponding to the recesses 4a, 4a ... in the elastic mat 4, a plurality of 5 shaped key tops 7,7 ... projecting into the through holes 6,6 ... from inside. The key tops 7, 7 are always pressed outwardly by the resiliency of the elastic mats 4a, 4a ... so that the key tops 7, 7 ... partially protrude from the upper surface of the casing 1. Thus, the substrate 3a having the printed wired contacts 2a and 2b, the elastic mat 4 having the recess 4a with the short bar 5 mounted on the bottom and the key top 7 define the first switch group. The lower wall of the casing 1 is also provided with through holes 6, 6 ... at positions corresponding to recesses 4a , 4a ... in the elastic mat 4 . A flexible sheet 8 is attached on the lower side of the transmitter, covering the elastic mat 4 and closing the through holes 6 , 6 ... Thus, the substrate 3 , the elastic mat 4 and the sheet 8 define the second switch group. In the remote control transmitter of the above mentioned construction, switches operated with relatively high frequency or, for example, channel select switches for a television receiver in the case of the remote control transmitter for a video television set are arranged in the first switch group, and switches operated with relatively low frequency or, for example, mode select switches for a video tape recorder are arranged in the second switch group. As mentioned above, the remote control transmitter of the present invention contains the first switch group on one side of the transmitter casing with the plurality of key tops protruding from the surface, and the second switch group covered with the flexible sheet on the other side of the casing. Thus, the electronic equipment can be easily and accurately controlled from a remote position by depressing any desired key top for on off operation of the corresponding switch in the first switch group, without erroneously actuating the second switch group even if the transmitter is operated on a table. Moreover, it is possible to conduct different remote control operation of the electronic equip ment, as required, by depressing the predetermined position on the flexible sheet for on off operation of a desired switch in the second switch group. The substrates 3 and 3 are fixed in place by substrate set plates 10 and 10 . Signals from the remote control transmitter are transmitted through a signal emitting section 11 to the equipment under control. The remote control transmitter of the present invention can be used for a wide range of electronic equipment including a television receiver, a video tape recorder, a stereo set and a compact disc.As modifications of the present invention, the first switch group with the plurality of exposed key tops and the second switch group covered with the flexible sheet may be provided on an identical side of the transmitter, or the first and the second switch groups may be provided on one side of the transmitter with no switch provided on the other side. The invention being thus described, it will be obvious that the same may be varied in many ways. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the spirit and scope of the invention, and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the following claims.