# Process and intermediates for 4 acetylimidazoles.

## Abstract
This invention provides a two step process for the prep aration of 4 acetylimidazoles. In the first step, a 4 acylamino 5 methylisoxazole is subjected to catalytic hydrogenolysis to give a 4 amino 3 acyl amino 3 buten 2 one. In the second step, the intermediate 3 buten 2 one compound is cyclized to a 4 acetylimidazole by treatment with a basic agent. The 4 acetylimidazoles are chemical intermediates for preparing known antisecretory agents and histamine H₂ antagonists, useful for the treatment of gastric hyperacidity and peptic ulcers.

## Claims
CLAIMS FOR ALL DESIGNATED COUNTRIES EXCEPT AUSTRIA 1. A process for the preparation of an imidazole compound of the formulaEMI21.1 which comprises the steps of a contacting an isoxazole compound of the formulaEMI21.2 with hydrogen, in a reaction inert solvent, in the presence of a catalytic amount of a hydrogenolysis catalyst, to give an intermediate compound of the formulaEMI21.3 and b cyclizing the intermediate compound from step a by treating said intermediate compound with a basic agent having a pKb greater than 9, in a reactioninert solvent wherein RÚ is hydrogen, alkyl having 1 to 6 carbons, hydroxymethyl or CH2 , Ph, wherein n is an integer from 2 to 4 and Ph represents the phenyl group. 2. The process according to claim 1, wherein the basic agent used in step b is selected from the group consisting of alkali metal hydroxides, alkaline earth metal hydroxides, alkali metal alkoxides having 1 to 5 carbons, alkali metal hydrides and alkaline earth metal hydrides. 3. The process according to claim 2, wherein R1 is hydrogen, methyl or hydroxymethyl. 4. The process according to claim 3, wherein step a is carried out under an atmosphere consisting substantially of hydrogen, at a temperature in the range from 0 to 800C., at a pressure in the range from 0.5 to 10 kg cm2 and at a pR in the range from 4 to 8, and said hydrogenolysis catalyst is palladium, platinum or nickel. 5. The process according to claim 4, wherein the hydrogenolysis catalyst is present in an amount in the range from 1 to 10 weight percent, based on the weight of said isoxazole. 6. The process according to claim 5, wherein the hydrogenolysis catalyst is palladium and it is suspended on powdered carbon, such that the ratio of catalyst to powdered carbon is in the range from 1 40 to 1 5 by weight. 7. The process according to claim 4, wherein step b is carried out at a temperature in the range from 60 to 1200C., and said basic agent used in step b is sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide or calcium hydroxide. 8. A compound of the formulaEMI23.1 wherein R1 is hydrogen, alkyl having 1 to 6 carbons, hydroxymethyl or CH2 n ph wherein n is an integer from 2 to 4 and Ph represents the phenyl group. 9. A compound according to claim 8, wherein R1 is hydrogen, methyl or hydroxymethyl. 10. The compound according to claim 9, wherein R1 is methyl. CLAIMS FOR AUSTRIA 1. A process for the preparation of an imidazole compound of the formulaEMI24.1 which comprises the steps of a contacting an isoxazole compound of the formulaEMI24.2 with hydrogen, in a reaction inert solvent, in the presence of a catalytic amount of a hydrogenolysis catalyst, to give an intermediate compound of the formulaEMI24.3 and b cyclizing the intermediate compound from step a by treating said intermediate compound with a basic agent having a PRb greater than 9, in a reactioninert solvent wherein R1 is hydrogen, alkyl having 1 to 6 carbons, hydroxymethyl or CB2 , Ph, wherein n is an integer from 2 to 4 and Ph represents the phenyl group. 2. The process according to claim 1, wherein the basic agent used in step b is selected from the group consisting of alkali metal hydroxides, alkaline earth metal hydroxides, alkali metal alkoxides having 1 to 5 carbons, alkali metal hydrides and alkaline earth metal hydrides. 3. The process according to claim 2, wherein R1 is hydrogen, methyl or hydroxymethyl. 4. The process according to claim 3, wherein step a is carried out under an atmosphere consisting substantially of hydrogen, at a temperature in the range from 0 to 800C., at a pressure in the range from 0.5 to 10 kg cm2 and at a pH in the range from 4 to 8, and said hydrogenolysis catalyst is palladium, platinum or nickel. 5. The process according to claim 4, wherein the hydrogenolysis catalyst is present in an amount in the range from 1 to 10 weight percent, based on the weight of said isoxazole. 6. The process according to claim 5, wherein the hydrogenolysis catalyst is palladium and it is suspended on powdered carbon, such that the ratio of catalyst to powdered carbon is in the range from 1 40 to 1 5 by weight. 7. The process according to claim 4, wherein step b is carried out at a temperature in the range from 60 to 1200C., and said basic agent used in step b is sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide or calcium hydroxide.

## Description
PROCESS AND INTERMEDIATES FOR 4 ACE,YIIMIDAZOLES This invention provides a new chemical process, and novel chemical compounds used therein. More particularly, the new chemical process of this invention involves the rearrangement of a 4 acylamino5 methylisoxazole compound to a 2 optionally substituted 4 acetylimidazole compound. The novel chemical compounds used in the process of this invention are derivatives of 4 amino 3 buten 2 one NH2 CH CH CO CH3 , having an acylamino substituent R CO NH at the 3 position. The 4 acetylimidazoles produced by the process of this invention are known chemical intermediates useful in the preparation of certain 4 2 guaniino 4 thiazolyl lmid2zole compounds. Said 4 2 guanidino 4 thiazolyl imidazoles are known from United StatesPatent No. 4,374,843 to have value as medicinal agents in the treatment of disorders caused by, or aggravated by, the secretion of gastric acid, e.g.peptic ulcers. Various 4 acetylimidazoles have previously been prepared by irradiation of an N acetylimidazole, and by condensation of a 3 halo 4 n alkoxy 3 buten 2 one with an amidine in the presence of a base. See further, United States Patent No. 4,374,843 LaMattina et al., Journal of Organic Chemistry, 8, 897 1983 and Lipinski et al., Journal of Organic Chemistry, 49, 566 1984 . Ajello Annali di Chimica Rome , 60, 343 lg703 has described the preparation of certain 2,5 disubstituted 4 acetylimidazoles from isoxazoles by hydrogenolysls followed by a basecatalyzed cyclization. This invention provides a new process for the preparation of an.imidazole compound of the formulaEMI2.1 which comprises the steps of a contacting an isoxazole compound of the formulaEMI2.2 with hydrogen, in a reaction inert solvent, in the presence of a catalytic amount of a hydrogenolysis catalyst, to give an intermediate compound of the formulaEMI2.3 and b cyclizing the intermediate compound from step a by treating said intermediate compound with a basic agent having a pKb greater than 9, in a reaction inert solvent wherein R1is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkyl having 1 to 6 carbons, hydroxymethyl and CH2 nPh wherein n is an integer from 2 to 4, and wphl represents the phenyl group. Also embraced within this invention are the novel chemical compounds of the formula III, whereinR1 is as defined previously. Preferred embodiments of this invention are the aforesaid two step process, in which R1 is hydrogen, methyl or hydroxymethyl, especially methyl and also the compounds of formula III, in which R is hydrogen, methyl or hydroxymethyl, especially methyl. Step a of the process of this invention involves contacting a compound of formula II, wherein R1 is as defined previously, with hydrogen, in a reaction inert solvent, in the presence of a catalytic amount of a hydrogenolysis catalyst. This is usually accomplished by stirring or shaking a solution of a compound of formula II and the catalyst under an atmosphere of hydrogen, or hydrogen mixed with up to 50 by volume of an inert diluent such as nitrogen or argon, in a closed vessel, until conversion into a compound of formula III is substantially complete.Preferably, step a is carried out under an atmosphere consisting substantially of hydroqen, i.e. at least 90 hydrogen by volume, preferably at a pressure in the range from 0.5 to 10 kgcm Reaction inert solvents which can be used for this reaction are those which do not adversely interact with either the compound of formula II or the compound of formula III, do not react to any significant degree with hydrogen, and will dissolve the compound of formula II to a substantial degree. Additionally, it is desirable that the solvent be volatile enough to be removed by an evaporative process or be appreciably soluble in water.Typical solvents which can be used include lower alkanols, such as methanol, ethanol and n butanol low nolecular weight ketones, such as acetone and methyl isobutyl ketone low molecular weight esters, such as ethyl acetate lo W molecular weight open chan ethers, such as 1, 2 dialkoxyethanes e.g., I ,2 dinethoxyethane and di 2 alkoxyethyl ethers e.g., dit2 methoxyethyl ether low molecular weight cyclic ethers, such as tetrahydrofuran and dioxane and mixtures of these solvents. The solvent system for step a can be partially aqueous, t it is usual to choose a homogeneous solvent system, and also one which dissolves substantially all of the compound of formula II. Step a is preferably carried out at a temperature in the range from 0 to 80 C., but more preferably at a temperature from 15 to 306C. Step a of the process of this invention entails cleavage of a nitrogen oxygen bond by hydrogenolysis, and the catalysts which can be used are those which are commonly used in the art for this type of transformation. In particular catalysts which can be used are transition metals, such as palladium, platinum and nickel and mixtures thereof. The hydrogenolysis catalyst is used in an amount which is commonly used in the art in this type of transformation, and in this specification this is referred to as a catalytic amount. Such an amount is normally in the range from 1 to 10 percent by weight, especialiy 3 to 5 percent, based on the weight of the starting isoxazole of formula II. For ease of operation, it is often convenient to use the hydrogenolysis catalyst suspended cn an inert carrier. In such a situation, the ratio of hydrogenolysis catalyst to carrier will normally be in the range from 1 40 to 1 5, and preferably about 1 10, by weight. Typical carriers which can be used are powdered carbon and calcium carbonate. A 10 suspension of palladium on carbon is a particularly convenient catalyst for step a of this invention. Step a of the process of this invention is usually carried out under neutral conditions. However, reaction conditions having a pH in the range from 4 to 8 can be used satisfactorily. Step a normally proceeds quite rapidly, and, when carried out under the preferred conditions, conversion of the isoxazole of formula II into the compound of formula III is normally zomplete within about 0.5 to about 4 hours. Step b of the process of this invention involves cyclizing the product of step a , i.e., the compound of formula III, by treatment with a basic agent in a reaction inert solvent. Reaction inert solvents which can be used for step b are those solvents which de not adversely interact with the starting compound of formula III or the product of formula I, are not substantially affected by the basic agent used for step b , and will dissolve te starting compound of formula III to a significant degree. Additionally, the solvent should be such that the product imidazole of formulaI can be recovered readily. In general, the reactioninert solvent should be sufficiently volatile that it can be removed by evaporation, or it.should be watermiscible. Typical solvents which can be used include lower alkanols, such as methanol, ethanol and nbutanol the low molecular weight open chain and cyclic ethers mentioned previously for step a water and mixtures of these solvents. A wide variety of basic agents can be used for step b of this invention, the major requirements being that the basic agent does not adversely affect either the starting material of formula III, or the product of formula I, and it has sufficient basic strength to bring about the desired cyclization. In this regard, basic agents having a Kb value of greater than 9 are required. oreover, as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art, the basic agent chosen must be compatible with the solvent system chosen for step b . In practice, convenient basic agents for step b of this invention are alkaline metal hydroxides, such as sodium hydroxide and potassium hydroxide alkaline earth metal hydroxides, such as barium hydroxide alkali metal alkoxides having 1 to 5 carbons, such as sodium ethoxide and potassium tbutoxide alkali metal hydrides, such as sodium hydride and potassium hydride and alkaline earth metal hydrides, such as calcium hydride. As regards the amount of basic agent to be used in step b , at least one molar equivalent is required, and amounts in excess of one molar equivalent can be used. In practice, an amount in the range from one molar equivalent to six molar equivalents, and preferably one to two molar equivalents, of basic agent are used. Step b of the process of this invention is normally carried out at a temperature in the range from 60 to 1200C., and preferably from 70 to 1000C.Within this preferred temperature range, the cyclization step is normally essentially complete within a few hours, e.g., 1 to 4 hours. If desired, the intermediate 3 buten 2 one compound of the formula III can be isolated at the end of step a . This is conveniently accomplished by firstly removing the catalyst by filtration, to give a solution of the compound of formula III. If the solvent in which step a has been carried is sufficiently volatile, removal of the solvent by evaporation, preferably in vacuo, then affords the compound of formula III. Alternatively, when the solvent in which step a has been carried out is miscible with water, a convenient method of isolating the compound of formula III involves dilution of the solution of formula III with water, extraction with a volatile, water immiscible, organic solvent, followed by solvent evaporation. Alternatively, however, if desired, the intermediate 3 buten 2 one of formula III need not be isolated. At the end of step a , after removal of the catalyst by filtration, the resulting solution of the compound of formula III can be used directly in step b . This is achieved simply by adding the appropriate amount of a basic agent to the solution of the compound of formula III, and carrying out the cyclization directly. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art, when it is desired to carry out steps a and b of the process of this invention without isolation of the compound of formula III, it is necessary to conduct step a in a solvent which is compatible with the cyclization conditions of step b . At the conclusion of step b , the final 4acetylimidazole compound of formula I can be isolated by standard techniques. For example, the basic agent can be neutralized, and then if a volatile solvent has been used, it can be removed by evaporation in vacuo to give the crude product. If inorganic salts are still present, they can be removed by extracting the product into an organic solvent such as acetone, filtering off the inorganic salts, and recovering the compound of formula I by evaporation. Alternatively, after neutralization of the basic agent, the reaction mixture can be diluted with water. If the reaction solvent forms a separate layer, it can be removed, dried and evaporated to give the desired compound of formula I. If two phases are not present, the product can be extracted into a water immiscible, volatile organic solvent.Evaporation of the organic solvent then affords the desired compound of formula I. The compound of formula I can be purified by standard techniques, such as recrystallizatLon and chromatography, if desired. The starting isoxazoles of formula II can be prepared simply by acylation of 4 anino 5 methyl isoxazole IV , using an activated derivative of a carboxylic acid of the formula R1 CO OH, wherein R1 is as defined previously, viz EMI8.1 Conversion of compound IV into compound II is a classic acylation reaction, and it can be carried cut under standard conditions, well known in the art for this type of process. The acid of formula R1 CO OH can be activated by standard techniques such as conversion to an acid chloride of the formula R1 CO Cl, a symmetrical anhydride of the formula R1 CO 2O, or a mixed carboxylic carbonic anhydride of the formulaR1 CO O CO OR2, wherein R2 is a lower alkyl group, e.g., isobutyl. The 4 acetylimidazole compounds of formula I are useful as intermediates to known antisecretory agents and histamine H2 antagonists of the formulaEMI9.1 wherein R1 is as defined previously. Conversion of the compounds of formula I into the compounds of formula V, and methods for the use of the compounds of formula V in the treatment of conditions caused by gastric hyperacidity e.g., peptic ulcers , are taught in United States Patent No. 4,374,843. For example, the compounds of formula I are first converted into the corresponding 4 haloacetylimidazole of the formula VI by reaction with a halogen in an aqueous hydrogen halide solution, e.g., bromine in aqueous hydrobromic acid, viz EMI10.1 wherein is as defined previously and X is haio, e.g., promo. The compound of formula VI is then reacted with N guanylthiourea VII to give a compound of the formula V EMI10.2 The following examples and preparations are being provided solely for the purpose of further illustration. Proton nuclear magnetic reasonance spectra N0R spectra were measureed at 60 MHz in deuterochloroform CDCl3 , perdeuteroacetone CD3COCD3 , perdeuteromethanol CD3OD or perdeuterodimethyl sulfoxide DMSO d6 , and the following abbreviations for peak shapes are used s, singlet d, doublet t, triplet and q, quartet. Peak positions are reported in parts per million pp ti downfield from internal tetramethyl silage. For mass spectra, the peak positions are reported as mass to charge ratios m e with the relative intensities being shown in parenthesis after the peak positions, expressed as a percentage of the most intense peak.The term flash column chroma tographyw refers to the procedure described by Still et al., Journal of Organic Chemistry, 43, 2923 1978 . EXAMPLE 1 4 Acetyl irnidazole A solution of 715 mg 5.67 mmole of 4 formamido 5 methylisoxazole in ethanol was shaken under an atmosphere of hydrogen, at ca. 4 kg cm2, in the presence of 200 mg of 10 palladium on carbon, for 30 minutes. The reaction mixture was filtered and the residue was washed with ethanol. The filtrate and the washings were combined, and to the resulting solution was added 284 mg 7.1 mmole of solid sodium hydroxide. The resulting mixture was heated under reflux for I hour, and then 418 mg 7.8 mmole of solid ammonium chloride was added. The mixture was cooled to room temperature and the solvent was removed by evaporation in vacuo. The residue was extracted with acetone, and the resulting acetone solution was evaporated in vacuo to give the crude product.The crude product was purified by flash column chromatography to give 610 mg 98 yield of the title compound as a white solid, mp 169 1700C. The NMR spectrum of the product CD3COCD3 DMSO d6 showed absorptions at 2.45 s, 3H and 7.67 s, 2H ppm. The mass spectrum of the product showed peaks at m e values of 110 100 , 95 88.4 , 81 3.3 , 68 32.4 and 67 36.6 . EXAMPLE 2 4 Acetyl 2 methyl imidazole A solution of 468 mg 3.34 mmole of 4 acetamido5 methylisoxazole in 20 ml of ethanol wÅas shaken under an atmosphere of hydrogen, at a pressure of 2 kg cm2, in the presence of 100 mg of 10 palladiumon carbon, for 1.5 hours. A slurry of 100 mg of 10 palladium on carbon and 145 mg of non pyrophoricRaney nickel in a few milliliters of ethanol was then added, and the resulting mixture was shaken under hydrogen, at 2.0 kg cm2 pressure, for a further 1 hour. The reaction mixture was filtered and the residue was washed with ethanol. The filtrate and the washings were combined and heated to reflux temperature. To the refluxing solution was added 153 nig of solid sodium hydroxide.The mixture was heated at reflux temperature for 1 hour, and then an additional 95 mg of solid sodium hydroxide was added. The mixture was heated at reflux temperature for an additional 30 minutes, and then 365 mg of solid ammonium chloride was added. The resulting mixture was allowed to stand overnight and then the solvent was removed by evaporation in vacuo. The residue was extracted with acetone, and the resulting acetone solution was evaporated in vacuo, to give 420 mg of a yellow solid. The yellow solid was recrystallized from a mixture of diisopropyl ether and ethyl acetate 1 1 to give 153 mg 37 yield of the title compound, mp 128 130 C. EXAMPLE 2 Cont. The mother liquor from the recrystallization was evaporated in vacuo, and the residue was purified by flash column chromatography. This gave an additional 171 mg 41 yield of the title compound, mp 1231270C. Total yield 324 mg 78 yield . The NMR spectrum of the product DMSO d6 showed absorptions at 2.33 s, 3H , 2.38 s, 3H and 7.68 s, 1H ppm. The mass spectrum of the product showed peaks at m e value of 124 47.5 , 109 100 , 81 98.1 and 54 68.3 . EXAMPLE 3 4 Acetyl 2 ethylimidazole A solution of 1.13 g 7.3 mmole of 4 propionamido 5 methylisoxazole in 20 ml of ethanol was shaken under an atmosphere of hydrogen, at a pressure of ca 4 kg cm2, in the presence of 200 mg of 10 palladiumon carbon, for 30 minutes. At this point, an additional 200 mg of 10 palladium on carbon was added and the hydrogenation was continued for an additional 30 minutes at ca 4 kg cm2. The reaction mixture was filtered, and the residue was washed with ethanol.To the combined filtrate and ethanol washings was added 356 mg 8.8 mmole of solid sodium hydroxide.The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour and then under reflux for 1 hour. To the hot solution was added 518 mg 9.7 mmole of solid ammonium chloride and the mixture was allowed to cool to room temperature. The solvent was removed by evaporation in vacuo, and the residue was extracted with acetone. The resulting acetone solution was evaporated in vacuo to give a yellow solid. the yellow solid was purified by flash column chromatography to give the title compound as a white solid, 878 mg, mp 117 1190C. 87 yield . The NMR spectrum of the product CDC13 showed absorptions at 1.37 t, 3H, J 7Hz , 2.52 s, 3H , 2.88 q, 2H, J 7Hz and 7.70 5, 1H ppm. The mass spectrum of the product showed peaks at mle value of 138 100 , 123 93.8 , 95 48.8 , 81 12.7 and 68 28.3 . EXAMPLE 4 3 Acetamido 4 amino 3 buten 2 one A solution of 281 mg 2.0 mmole of 4 acetamido 5 methylisoxazole in 25 ml of methanol was shaken under an atmosphere of hydrogen, at a pressure of ca 4 kg cm2, in the presence of 100 mg of 10 palladium on carbon for 1 hour. The catalyst was removed by filtration, and then the methanol solvent was removed by evaporation in vacuo. This afforded 280 mg of the title compound mp 157 160 C. The NMR spectrum of the product DMSO d6 showed absorptions at 1.95 s, 3E , 2.00 s, 3H , 6.40 broad d, 2H , 7.35 broad t, 1H and 8.25 broad s, 1H ppm. The mass spectrum of the product showed peaks at m e values of 142 72.2 , 100 100 , 85 24.1 , 72 35.7 , 57 66.0 and 43 86.8 . PREPARATION 1 4 Formamido 5 methyl isoxazole A solution of 1.08 g 8.0 mmole of 4 amino S methylisoxazole hydrochloride in .0 ml of formic acid was heated under reflux for 7 hours, and then the reaction nixture was allowed to stand overnight.The formic acid was then removed by evaporation in vacuo, and the residue was purified by flash column chromatography and dried under high. vacuum to give 717 mg 71 yield of the title compound as an offwhite solid, np 73 750C. The NMR spectrum of the product CD30D showed absorptions at 2.42 s, 3H , 8.18 s, 1R and 8.57 s, 1H ppm. The mass spectrum of the product showed peaks at m e value of 127 1.3 , 126 1.6 , 111 0.3 , 98 1.1 , 84 0.4 , 71 6.6 , 56 t10.1 and 43 100 .Analysis Calcd. for C5H6N202 C, 47 ,62 H, 4.80 N, 22.21 .Found C, 47.50 H, 4.80 N, 22.30 . PRSPARATION 2 4 Acetamido 5 mcthyl isoxazole A mixture prepared from 1.35 g 10.0 mmole of 4 aiaino 5 methylisoxazole hydrochloride, 820 mg 10.0 mmole of sodium acetate, 5 ml of acetic anhydride and 45 ml of acetic acid was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The volatile components were then removed by evaporation in vacuo, and the residue was dissolved in diethyl ether. he ethereal solution was dried MgSO4 and then the solvent was removed in vacuo. The residue was dried under high vacuum, giving 1.38 g 98 yield of the title compound as a white solid, mp 94 970C. The NMR spectrum of the product CDC13 showed absorptions at 2.17 s, 3E , 2.40 s, 3H , 8.57 s, 1Hf and 8.73 broad s, 1H ppm. The mass spectrum of the product showed peaks at m e value of 140 11.1 , 98 49.4 , 71 27.4 and 43 100 . PREPARATION 3 4 ProPionamido 5 methylisoxazole A mixture prepared from 1 35 g 10.0 mmole of 4 amino 5 methylisoxazole hydrochloride, 961 mg 10.0 mmole of sodium propionate, 6.51 g 50 mmole of propionic anhydride and 10 ml of propionic acid was stirred at roon temperature for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was then diluted with 100 ml of water, and extracted liberally with chloroform. The combined organic extracts were washed with sufficient aqueous potassium carbonate to keep the aqueous phase alkaline.The layers were separated and the aqueous phase was extracted with chloroform. The combined chloroform solutions were dried MgSO4 and evaporated in vacuo, with final traces of propionic anhydride being removed under high vacuum. The residue was purified by flash column chromatography to give 1.36 g 88 yield of the title compound as a pale yellow oil, which crystallized on standing, mp 56 580C. The NMR spectrun of the product CDC13 showed absorptions at 1.22 t, 3H, J 7Hz , 2.35 s, 3H , 2.36 9, 2H, J 7fez , 8.33 broad s, 1 and 8.47 s, 1E ppm. The mass spectrum of the product showed peaks at m e values of 155 100 , 154 46.4 , 138 7.5 , 112 19.9 , 98 9.1 , 71 19.1 and 57 89.5 .Analysis Calcd. for C7H10N2O2 C, 54.53 H, 6.54 N, 18.17 .Found C, 54.28 H, 6.31 N, 17.99 . PREPARATION 4 4 Amino S methyl isoxazole The title compound can be prepared by nitration of 5 methylisoxazole using fuming nitric acid in fuming sulfuric acid, according to the procedure of Quilico and Musante, Gazz Chim. Ital., 71, 327 1941 , followed by reduction with aluminum amalgam, according to the procedure of Morgan and Burgess, J. Chem. Soc. 697 1921 .