# Zeolite zsm 14 and a process and reaction mixture for synthesis of the same.

## Abstract
A synthetic crystalline ZSM 14 zeolite material having the X ray powder diffraction pattern substantially as set forth in Table I of the specification and having as synthesized, in the anhydrous state, a formula in terms of mole ratios of oxides 0.005 5 R2O 0.01 5 M2 nO 0 0.2 Al2O3 100 SiO2 wherein R is represented by the formula MATH wherein A is a cation having a valence m, R min is an inorganic or an organic acid moiety, and R sec is a linear or branched aliphatic, aromatic or alkylaromatic group, and M is an alkali metal or an alkaline earth metal having a valence n. The zeolite material is prepared by a reaction mixture which comprises sources of an alkali or alkaline earth metal, alumina, silica and an organic, anionic directing agent represented by the formula given above and which has the following composition in terms of mole ratios and oxides SiO2 AlO3 500 INFINITY H2O SiO2 2 1000 OH SiO2 0 10 M SiO2 0.01 3 R SiO2 0.01 3 wherein M is an alkali or alkaline earth metal and R is the anionic directing agent. To prepare the zeolite material, the reaction mixture is maintained at crystallization conditions until the crystals of the ZSM 14 zeolite are formed.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A synthetic crystalline ZSM 14 zeolite material having theX ray powder diffraction pattern substantially as set forth in Table I of the specification and having as synthesized, in the anhydrous state, a formula in terms of mole ratios of oxides O.Q05 5 R2O 0.01 5 M2 nO 0 0.2 Al2O3 100 SiO2 wherein R is represented by the formula m Rit 0 R O A l m wherein A is a cation having a valence m, R is an inorganic or an organic acid moiety, and R is a linear or branched aliphatic, aromatic or alkylaromatic group, and M is an alkali metal or an alkaline earth metal having a valence n. 2. The zeolite of Claim 1 wherein A is an alkali metal or an alkaline earth metal, R is a carboxylic acid moiety and R is an ethoxylated alkyl group having 8 to 12 carbon atoms in the alkyl chain or an ethoxylated phenol alkyl group having 8 to 12 carbon atoms in the alkyl chain. 3. The zeolite of Claim 1 or Claim 2 wherein A is sodium, R is a sulfonated succinic acid group and R is either ,,, C10H21 OCH2CH2 orEMI16.1 4. The zeolite of Claim 1 or Claim 2 wherein R is a sulfonated succinic acid group and R is CloH2l 0CH2CH2 5. 5. The zeolite of any of Claims 1 to 4 wherein R isEMI17.1 6. A reaction mixture which, upon crystallization, yields aZSM 14 synthetic crystalline zeolite having substantially the X ray diffraction pattern of Table I of the specification and which comprises sources of an alkali or alkaline earth metal, alumina, silica and an organic, anionic directing agent represented by the formula m R O R O A 1 m wherein A is a cation having a valence m, R is an inorganic or an organic acid moiety, and R is a linear or branched aliphatic, aromatic or alkyl aromatic group. 7. The reaction mixture of Claim 6 wherein A is sodium, R is a sulfonated succinic acid group and R is either C1OH21 0CH2CH2 orEMI17.2 8. The reaction mixture of any of Claims 6 to 8 wherein R is a sulfonated succinic acid group and R is C10M21 OCH2CH2 5 9. The reaction mixture of any of Claims 6 to 8 wherein R isEMI17.3 10. A process for preparing a synthetic crystalline ZSM 14 zeolite material which comprises preparing a reaction mixture comprising sources of an alkali or alkaline earth metal, alumina, silica and an organic, anionic directing agent represented by the formula m R O R 0 A l m wherein A is a cation having a valence m, R is an inorganic or an organic acid society, and R is a linear or branched aliphatic, aromatic or alkyl aromatic group, and having the following composition in terms of mole ratios of oxides SiO2 Al2O3 500 H2O SiO2 2 1000 t ZSiQ2 0 10 M SiO2 0.01 3 R Si02 0.01 3 wherein M is a an alkali or alkaline earth metal and R is the anionic directing agent and maintaining it at crystallization conditions until the crystals of the ZSM 14 zeolite are formed. 11. The process of Claim 10 wherein A is an alkali metal or an alkaline earth metal, R is a carboxylic acid moiety and R is an ethoxylated alkyl group having 8 to 12 carbon atoms in the alkyl chain or an ethoxylated phenol group having 8 to 12 carbon atoms in the alkyl chain. 12. The process of Claim 10 or Claim 11 wherein A is sodium,R is a sulfonated succinic acid group and R is eitherC10H21 OCH2CH2 5 orEMI18.1 13. The process of any one of Claims 10 to 12 wherein R is a sulfonated succinic acid group and R is C10H21 OCH2CM2 5 14. The process of any one of Claims 10 to 13 wherein R isEMI19.1 15. A process of any one of Claims 10 to 14 wherein the molar ratio SiO2 A1203 is 1000 to vxD

## Description
ZEOLITE ZSM 14 AND A PROCESS AND REACTION MIXTURE FOR SYNTHESIS OF THE SAME This invention relates to zeolite ZSM 14 and a process and reaction mixture for synthesis of the same. Zeolitic materials, both natural and synthetic, have been demonstrated in the past to have catalytic properties for various types of hydrocarbon conversion. Certain zeolitic materials are ordered, porous crystalline aluminosilicates having a definite crystalline structure, as determined by X ray diffraction pattern, within which there are a large number of small cavities which may be interconnected by a number of smaller channels or pores. These cavities and pores are uniform in size within a specific zeolitic material. Since the dimensions of these pores are such as to accept, for adsorption, molecules of certain dimensions while rejecting those of larger dimensions, these materials have come to be known as molecular sieves and are utilized in a variety of ways to take advantage of these properties. Such molecular sieves, both natural and synthetic, include a wide variety of positive ion containing crystalline aluminosilicates.These aluminosilicates can be described as having a rigid threedimensional framework of SiO4 and A104 tetrahedra in which the tetrahedra are cross linked by the sharing of oxygen atoms whereby the ratio of the total aluminum and silicon atoms to oxygen atoms is 1 2.The electrovalence of the tetrahedra containing aluminum is balanced by the inclusion in the crystal of a cation, for example an alkali or alkaline earth metal cation. This can be expressed by the relationship of aluminum to the cations, wherein the ratio of aluminum to the number of various cations, such as Ca 2, Sr 2, Na, K, Cs or Li, is equal to unity. One type of cation may be exchanged either entirely or partially with another type of cation utilizing ion exchange techniques in a conventional manner. By means of such cation exchange, it has been possible to vary the properties of a given allxPinosilicate by a suitable selection of the cation. The spaces between the tetrahedra are occupied by molecules of water prior to dehydration. Prior art techniques have resulted in the formation of a great variety of synthetic aluninosilicates. The aluminosilicates are usually designated by letter or other convenient symbols, as illustrated by zeolite A U.S. Patent 2,882,243 , zeolite X U.S.Patent 2,882,244 , zeolite Y U.S. Patent 3,130,007 , zeolite ZK 5 U.S. Patent 3,247,195 , zeolite ZK 4 U.S. Patent 3,314,752 , zeolite ZSMF5 U.S. Patent 3,702,886 , zeolite ZSM ll U.S. Patent 3,709,979 , zeolite ZSM 12 U.S. Patent 3,832,449 , zeolite ZSM 20 U.S. Patent 3,972,983 , zeolite ZSM 23 U.S. Patent 4,076,842 , Z 3S U.S.Patent 4,016,245 , and ZSM 38 U.S. Patent 4,046,859 . The SiO2 A1203 ratio of a given zeolite is often variable. For example, zeolite X can be synthesized with SiO2jA1203 mole ratios of fram 2 to 3 zeolite Y, from 3 to about 6. In some zeolites, the upper limit of the SiO2 Al2O3 ratio is unboonded. T5M 5 is one example of such zeolite wherein theSiO2 A12O3 ratio is at least 5, up to infinity. U.S. Patent 3,941,871, naw Re. 29,948 discloses a porous crystalline silicate zeolite made from a reaction mixture containing no deliberately added alumina in the recipe and exhibiting the X ray diffraction pattern characteristic of ZSM 5 type zeolites. U.S.Patents 4,061,724, 4,073,865 and 4,104,294 describe crystalline silicates or organosilicates of varying alranina and metal content. The present invention resides in one aspect in a synthetic crystalline ZSM 14 zeolite material having the X ray powder diffraction pattern substantially as set forth in Table I of the specification and having as synthesized, in the anhydrous state, a formula in terms of mole ratios of oxides 0.005 5 R2O 0.01 5 M2 nO 0 0.2 A1203 100 SiO2 wherein R is represented by the formula m R O R 0 A 1 m wherein A is a cation having a valence m, R is an inorganic or an organic acid moiety, and R is a linear or branched aliphatic, aromatic or alkylaromatic group, and M is an alkali metal or an alkaline earth metal having a valence n. In a further aspect, the invention resides in a reaction mixture which, upon crystallization, yields a ZSM 14 synthetic crystalline zeolite having substantially the X ray diffraction pattern of Table I of the specification and which comprises sources of an alkali or alkaline earth metal, alumina, silica and an organic, anionic directing agent represented by the formula m R O R 0 A l m In yet a further aspect, the invention resides in a process for preparing a synthetic crystalline ZSM 14 zeolite material which comprises preparing a reaction mixture comprising sources of an alkali or alkaline earth metal, alumina, silica and an organic, anionic directing agent represented by the formula m R O R O A l m wherein A is a cation having a valence m, R is an inorganic or an organic acid moiety, and R is a linear or branched aliphatic, aromatic or alkyl aromatic group, and having the following composition in terms of mole ratios of oxides 5i02 M203 500 H2O SiO2 2 1000 OH SiO2 0 10 M SiO2 0.01 3 R SiO2 0.01 3 wherein M is a an alkali or alkaline earth metal and R is the anionic directing agent and maintaining it at crystallization conditions until the crystals of the ZSM 14 zeolite are formed. The anionic organic directing agent employed herein contains a polar anionic group and a non polar non ionic group, and it is represented by the formula mi Rft O R 0 A 1 m wherein A is a cation having a valence m, R is an inorganic or an organic acid moiety, and R1 is a linear or branched aliphatic, aromatic or alkyl aromatic group. Examples of R are phosphates, sulfates, sulfonates or carboxylates, having one or two carboxyl groups. Examples of R are phenols and other aromatic or aliphatic alcohols, e.g., alkyl and alkene alcohols, ethoxylated alcohols, ethoxylated alkyl and alkene phenols. Examples of A are an alkali metal or an alkaline earth metal. In a preferred embodiment, A is sodium, potassium, cesium, calcium or magnesium, R is a carboxylic acid moiety, and R is an ethoxylated alkyl group having 8 to 12 carbon atoms in the alkyl chain or an ethoxylated phenol alkyl group having 8 to 12 carbon atoms in the alkyl chain.In yet more preferred eXhodiment, A is sodium, R is a sulfonated succinic acid group and R is either C10H21 OCH2CH2 5 orEMI4.1 In the most preferred embodiment, A is sodium, R is a sulfonated succinic acid group of the formulaEMI5.1 and R is CloH2l CH2CH2 S In addition to the anionic organic compound, the reaction mixture comprises a source of silica, a source of alumina, a source of an alkali or alkaline earth metal, e.g., sodium, potassium, cesium or strontium, and water, and it has a composition, in terms of the mole ratios of the oxides of the respective ingredients, falling within the following ratios REACTANTS BROAD PREFERRED MOST PREFERRED SiO2 Al203 500 oo 1000 c H2O SiO2 2 1000 10 200 20 100 OH SiO2 0 10 0.05 2 0.1 1 M SiO2 0.01 3 0.05 1 0.10 0.8R SiO2 0.01 3 0.02 2 0.05 1 wherein M is an alkali metal or an alkaline earth metal, and R is the anionic organic compound. Under certain process conditions, at theSiO2 Al203 ratios of 500 to 1000, the crystallization of the reaction mixture yields a mixture of ZSM 14 and ZSM 5 zeolites. In calculating the mole ratio of hydroxide ions silica, OH SiO2, it is conventional to calculate the amount of the hydroxide ions by summing the moles of OH , introduced into the solution, whether added as NaOH, as quaternary ammonium hydroxide in the case of a conventional preparation , as sodium silicate NaOH SiO2 as sodium aluminate NaOH A1203 , or the like, and to subtract from that sum any moles of acid added.Moles of acid may be added in the form of individual acids, e.g., as HC1, HNO3,H2SO4, acetic acid, or they may be added as salts, e.g., aluminum sulfate Al2O3 F SO4 , aluminum chloride A1203 aluminium nitrate A1203 FN 3 . Each mole of A1203 is itself equivalent to 2 moles of acid in this calculation, sinceAl203 conslRes 2 moles of hydroxide in its conversion to framework allw7nate ion. In particular, no contribution or consumption of OH by any acid which may be present is assigned to organic substances, such as anilines or anionic organic compounds, in this calculation. Crystallization can be carried out at either static or stirred conditions in a reactor vessel, e.g., a polypropylene jar, teflon lined or stainless steel autoclaves, at 100 C to 200 C for 6 hours to 60 days. Preferably, the crystallization temperature is maintained at 150 l75 C, with the crystallization time at that temperature being from 12 hours to 8 days. The ZSM 14 zeolite is prepared utilizing materials which supply the appropriate oxide.Such materials include sodium alusinate and alunina, as sources of alumina, sodium silicate, silica hydrosol, silica gel and silic acid, as sources of silica, sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, magnesium hydroxide and calcium hydroxide, as sources of alkali metals or alkaline earth metals, and a source of the anionic organic compound. Suitable sources of the anionic organic compounds are aqueous solutions thereof, which may be comercially available, e.g., Aerosol A 102 and Aerosol A 103, both of which are half esters of sulfosuccinic acid and are commercially available from the American Cyanaid Company, Process ChemicalsDepartment, Wane, New Jersey, USA.Aerosol A 102 is the most preferred organic directing agent. In this connection, Aerosol A 102 and Aerosol A 103 have the following general chemical formula EMI6.1 wherein, R is CloH21 0CH2CH2 5 , in Aerosol A 102, andEMI6.2 inAerosol A 103. The reaction mixture is maintained at the synthesis conditions until crystals of ZSM 14 zeolite are formed. The solid crystals are then separated from the reaction mixture, e.g., by cooling the reaction mixture to room temperature, filtering out and water washing the crystals. The product crystals are then dried in conventional manner, e.g., at 230 F 1100C , for 8 to 24 hours. It will be obvious to those skilled in the art that milder drying conditions, e.g., room temperature under vacuum, can also be employed. As noted above, the molar ratio of SiO2 A1203 in the reaction mixture may vary from 500 to infinity. At SiO2 A1203 molar ratios of 500 to 1000 the product is a mixture of ZSM 5 andZSM 14 zeolites. Accordingly, it is preferred to maintain the molar ratio of SiO2 A1203 at at least 1000 if pure ZSM 14 zeolite is the preferred product of the reaction. As noted above, in the as synthesized form, the ZSM 14 zeolite prepared herein has a calculated composition in terms of moles of oxides, after dehydration, per 100 moles of silica, as follows 0.005 S R2O 0.01 5 M2 nO 0 0.2 A1203 100SiO2 wherein R is the anionic organic compound, and M is an alkali metal or an alkaline earth metal having a valence n. In the above empirical formula for the as synthesized ZSM 14 zeolite, it is to be understood that there must always be sufficient cations to completely balance the electrovalence of the lattice aluminum.In those instances wherein greater amounts of cations are present than are necessary to balance the aluminum charge, the excess amount of cations may be present in the zeolite in the form of occluded compounds or structural defects formed from these cations. The synthesized ZSM 14 zeolite in accordance with the process of the present invention has the characteristic X ray diffraction set forth below in Table I. TABLE I o Interplanar spacing d A Relative Intensity 15.5 0.3 VS 7.72 0.16 W 7.31 0.15 W 5.16 0.11 W 3.66 0.07 M 3.57 0.07 M 3.46 0.07 VS 3.32 0.07 S 3.16 O.B6 VS 2.83 0.06 W 1.83 0.04 w These values were determined by standard techniques. The radiation was the K alpha doublet of copper, and a scintillation counter spectrometer with a strip chart pen recorder was used. The peak heights, I, and the positions as a function of 2 times theta, where theta is the Bragg angle, were read from the spectrometer chart. Fror these, the relative intensities, 100 I Io, where Io is the intensity of the strongest line or peak, and d obs. the interplanar spacing in A, corresponding to the recorded lines, were calculated. In Table I, the relative intensities are given in terms of the symbols s. strong, m. medium, m.s. medium strong, m.w. medium weak, and v.s. very strong. It should be understood that this X ray diffraction pattern is characteristic of all the species of ZSM 5 compositions.Ion exchange of the sodium ion with cations reveals substantially the same pattern with some minor shifts in interplanar spacing and variation in relative intensity. Other minor variations can occur, depending on the silicon to aluminum ratio of the particular sample, as well as if it had been subjected to thermal treatment. The ZSM 14 zeolite prepared herein freely sorbs normal hexane and is also useful in the hydrocarbon cracking isomerization reactions.ZSM 14, which is unstable at high temperatures, and whose crystalline structure collapses at a temperature of above about 500 C, can be used in its collapsed, amorphous, state as a binder for other zeolites, such as ZSM 5 zeolite. The original cations and anions of the as synthesized ZSM 14 can be replaced in accordance with techniques well known in the art, at least in part, by ion exchange with other ions. Preferred replacing cations include metal ions, ammonium ions, hydrogen ions and mixtures thereof. Particularly preferred cations are those which render the zeolite catalytically active, especially for hydrocarbon conversion. These include hydrogen, rare earth metals, aluminum metals of Groups IIA, IIIB, IVB, VIB, VIII, IB, IIB, IIIA and IVA. Of the replacing metallic cations, particular preference is given to cations of metals, such as rare earth metals, Mn, Ca, Mg, Zn, Cd, Pd,Ni, Co, Ti, Al, Sn, Fe and Cu. Preferred replacing anions include halides, nitrates, sulfates, bicarbonates, acetates and oxalates. A typical ion exchange technique comprises contacting the synthenic ZSM 14 zeolite with a salt of the desired replacing anions or cations. Although a wide variety of salts can be employed, particular preference is given to the chlorides, nitrates and sulfates. Representative ion exchange techniques are disclosed in a wide variety of patents including U.S. Patents 3,140,249, 3,140,251 and 3,140,253. Following contact with the salt solution of the desired replacing cation or anion, the zeolite is preferably washed with water and dried at a tempersture ranging frcnn 150 F to 6000F 660C to 316 C and thereafter may be calcined in air or other inert gas at temperatures ranging from 5000C to 15000F 26o0C to 8160C for periods of time ranging fr n 1 to 48 hours or more to produce a catalyticallyactive thermal decomposition product thereof. Regardless of the ion replacing the cations or anions in the as synthesized form of the ZSM 14 zeolite, the spatial arrangement of the aluminum, silicon and oxygen atoms which form the basic crystal lattices of ZSH 14 remains essentially unchanged by the described replacesent of the original anions and cations as determined by taking an X ray powder diffraction pattern of the ion exchanged material. The hereby prepared zeolite Z9M 14 may be used in a wide variety of organic compound conversion processes, e.g. hydrocarbon compounds conversion. Such processes include, for example, alkylation of arnsstics with olefins, arneatization of normally gaseous olefins and paraffins, aromatization of normally liquid low molecular weight paraffins and olefins, isomerization of aromatics, paraffins and olefins, disproportionation of aromatics, transalkylation of aromatics, oligomerization of olefins and cracking and hydrocracking. Synthetic ZSM 14 zeolites prepared herein can be used either in the organic anion containing or alkali metal form and hydrogen form or another univalent or multivalent cationic form. They can also be used in intimate combination with a hydrogenating component such as tungsten, vanadium, molbrdenum, rhenium, nickel, cobalt, chromium, manganese, or with a noble metal, such as platinum or palladium, where a hydrogenation dehydrogenation function is to be performed. Such components can be exchanged into the composition, impregnated therein or physically intimately admixed therewith. Such components can be impregnated in or on to ZSM 14, such as, for example, by, in the case of platinum, treating the zeolite with a platinum metal containing ion.Suitable platinum compounds for this purpose include chloroplatinic acid, platinous chloride and various compounds containing the platinum amine complex. Combinations of metals and methods for their introduction into the zeolite can also be used. In the case of many catalysts, including the ZSM 14 zeolite, it may be desirable to incorporate the zeolite with another material resistant to the temperatures and other conditions employed in organic conversion processes. Such materials include active and inactive materials and synthetic or naturally occurring zeolites as well as inorganic materials, such as clays, silica and or metal oxides. The clays, silica and or metal oxides may be either naturally occurring or in the form of gelatinous precipitates or gels including mixtures of silica and metal oxides. The use of such an additional active material in conjunction with the ZSM 14 crystal, i.e., combined therewith, tends to improve the conversion and or selectivity of the catalyst in certain organic conversion processes.Inactive materials suitably serve as diluents to control the amount of conversion in a given process, so that conversion products can be obtained economically and orderly without employing other means for controlling the rate of reaction. The zeolite ZSM 14 may also be incorporated into naturally occurring clays, e.g., bentonite and kaolin, to improve the crush strength of the catalyst under commercial operating conditions. Such materials, e.g., clays or oxides, function as binders for the catalyst. It is desirable to provide a catalyst having good crush strength because in commercial use it is desirable to prevent the catalyst from breaking down into powder like materials. Naturally occurring clays which can be composited with theZSM 14 zeolite include the montmorillonite and kaolin family, which families include the subbentonites, and the kaolins commonly known asDixie, McNamee Georgia and Florida clays or others in which the main mineral constituent is halloysite, kaolinite, dickite, nacrite, or anauxite. Such clays can be used in the raw state as originally mined or initially subjected to calcination, acid treatment or chemical modification. Binders useful for compositing with the ZSM 14 crystal also include inorganic oxides, notably alumina. In addition to the foregoing materials, the ZSM 14 zeolite can be composited with a porous matrix material such as silica alumina, silica magnesia, silica zirconia, silica thoria, silica beryllia, silica titania, as well as ternary compositions such as silica altiiiina thoria, silica alumina zirconia, silica aluminamagnesia and silica magnesia zirconia. The relative proportions of the crystalline zeolite and inorganic oxide gel matrix vary widely, with the zeolite content ranging from 1 to 90 percent by weight. In order to more fully illustrate the nature of the invention and the manner of practicing same, the following Examples are presented below. EXAMPLE 1 This example illustrates the synthesis of Z 14 zeolite with disodiun ethoxylated alcohol half ester of sulfosuccinic acid having a formula weight of 632 available commercially under the name ofAerosol A 102 from the American Cyanamid Co. . A solution A was prepared by adding to 72 grams of distilled water 3.37 grams of concentrated 96 H2SO4 and 18.9 grams ofAerosol A 102 318 aqueous . A solution B was prepared separately by dissolving 50 grams of Q brand sodium silicate comprising about 29 wt.l of SiO2, about 9 wt. No2O and about 63 wt. water in 50 grams of distilled water. Solutions A and B were mixed in a 300 ml stainless steel autoclave, then the autoclave was sealed and stirring and heating was begun. Crystallization temperature was maintained at I600C for 72 hours at autogeneous pressure. At the end of this period the autoclave was quenched in an ice water mixture to terminate the synthesis. The reaction products from the autoclave were first filtered on a Büchner funnel. After filtration, the crystalline aluminosilicate product was transferred to a beaker of distilled water and boiled on a hot plate for 30 minutes, with stirring, to remove surface adsorbed surfactant. After this boiling procedure, the aluminosilicate product was again filtered on a Büchner funnel, washed several times with distilled water, and finally dried under an infrared heat lamp in flowing air. A sample of this dried aluminosilicate product was taken for x ray analysis. The x ray powder diffraction pattern, set forth below in Table II, of this material identified the crystalline product as zeolite ZSM 14. The reaction mixture after Solutions A and B were combined had the following composition in terms of molar ratios Si02 A1203 oo H2O SiO2 40 OH SiO2 0.30 Na SiO2 0.59 R SiO2 0.04 wherein R is Aerosol A 102. EXAMPLE 2 A solution A was prepared by dissolving 288 grams of NaOH and 39.1 grams 31t aqueous of Aerosol A 102 in 111.4 grams of distilled water. Solution B was obtained, which comprised 48 grams of silica Sol manufactured by Matheson, Coleman and Bell, Manufacturing Chemists,Norwood, Ohio , comprising about 30 wt of silica, SiO2, and about 70 wt of water. Solutions A and B were mixed in a 300 ml stainless steel autoclave, the autoclave was sealed and stirring and heating was begun as in Example 1. Crystallization temperature was maintained at 1600C for 72 hours. The product was recovered, washed and evaluated as inExample I, above. It was identified to be 50 crystalline ZSM 14.The reaction mixture had the following composition, in terms of molar ratios SiO2 A1203 500 H2O SiO2 40 OH ZSiO2 0.30 Na SiQ2 0.30 R SiO2 0.08 wherein R is Aerosol A 102. TABLE II II X Wity Diffraction Pattern of Zeolite of Example 1 o LI E NUMBER 2THETA D A I IMAX 1 5.71 15.49 100 2 2 11.46 7.72 10 3 3 12.11 7.31 8 4 12.80 6.92 3 5 15.60 5.68 2 6 17.18 5.16 15 7 17.70 5.01 8 8 18.30 4.85 5 9 19.50 4.55 5 10 20.70 4.29 3 11 21.70 4.10 2 12 23.10 3.85 2 13 24.35 3.66 25 14 24.97 3.57 36 15 25.77 3.46 87 16 26.87 3.32 56 17 27.40 3.26 20 18 28.24 3.16 66 19 29.90 2.988 3 20 31.21 2.865 6 21 31.67 2.825 8 22 33.95 2.641 4 23 34.80 2.578 3 24 37.00 2.430 2 25 38.34 2.348 4 26 39.30 2.292 2 27 43.75 2.069 2 28 49.72 1.834 16 29 51.05 1.789 3 The data of Table II was obtained in the same manner as the data of Table I. Accordingly, the abbreviations used in Table II have the same meaning as discussed above in connection with the discussion of Table I.