# APPARATUS FOR CONTROLLING THE RUNNING OF CARRIAGE

## Claims
Gerät zum Steuern eines Wagens 1 , der einen Weg unter Trägheit entlang läuft, die durch eine darauf zum Beschleunigen oder Verlangsamen des Wagens aufgebrachte Triebkraft erzeugt wird, mit

## Description
This invention relates to control apparatus for a carriage which is given with a propelling force and runs by its inertia, the apparatus being capable of accelerating or decelerating the carriage and more particularly control apparatus capable of applying an appropriate acceleration or deceleration corresponding to the kinetic energy of the carriage. The control apparatus of the type described above is used in a conveyer system utilizing a linear induction motor, for example. In a linear induction motor, magnetic flux which varies with time is applied to a reaction plate and by the variation in the magnetic flux, a definite propelling force is created in the reaction plate. When the direction of the magnetic field is changed, a reverse propelling force can be produced. In this system, the reaction plate is secured to the carriage whereby the linear induction motor applies a forward propelling force or a reverse propelling force to the carriage for effecting start, acceleration, deceleration or stopping control of the carriage. Where it is desired to further accelerate, or decelerate and stop a carriage running under intia after acceleration with a linear motor, by using another linear motor, how to apply to the carriage an appropriate acceleration force forward propelling force or deceleration force reverse propelling force presents a problem. More particularly,where it is desired to further accelerate a carriage running under inertia, it is necessary to apply an adequate additional propelling force corresponding to the mass and speed of the carriage. When the applied propelling force is not adequates,it would be impossible to accelerate the carriage to a desired speed. To decelerate or stop a carriage running under inertia, it is necessary to apply to the carriage an adaquate reverse propelling force corresponding to the mass and speed of the carriage. When the reverse propelling force thus applied is not adequate, not only a severe impact will be given to the carriage, but also there arises a case in which it is impossible to decelerate the carriage to a desired speed. Furthermore in a certain case, it is impossible to stop the carriage at a desired position. Where the applied reverse propelling force exceeds the inertia of the carriage, the carriage may jump in the opposite direction which is of course extremely dangerous. To solve these problems, there has been proposed control apparatus disclosed in Japanese Patent Application No. 26460 1979 Laid Open Patent Specification No. 119616 1980 . According to this prior art technique, the mass of the carriage is detected from its speed immediately after starting for controlling the braking force applied to the carriage based on the detected mass and speed thereof. According to this technique, however, it is not always possible to correctly detect the mass of the carriage due to the condition of the conveying road or path at the time of starting. For this reason, it has been impossible to apply an adequate braking force to the carriage. DE A 1947980 discloses a conveyor system including a carriage movable along a track by the action of a linear induction motor. The linear induction motor has an armature and an inductor the armature is moved downwardly towards the inductor in dependence on the mass of the load on a platform. As the armature approaches the inductor, the force applied by the linear induction motor to the armature increases in this way compensation is provided for any increase in load which pushes the armature downwardly. It is an object of this invention to provide controlling apparatus for accelerating, decelerating or stopping a carriage without any undue shock. Another object of this invention is to provide novel apparatus for efficiently accelerating, decelerating or stopping a carriage operated by a linear induction motor. According to this invention, there is provided apparatus for controlling a carriage running along a path under inertia created by a propelling force imparted thereto for accelerating or decelerating said carriage, comprising first means fixed in relation to said path for imparting a variable forward propelling force or reverse propelling force to said carriage for a predetermined period of time second means for imparting a predetermined forward propelling force or reverse propelling force to said carriage for a predetermined period of time, said second means being fixed in relation to said path behind said first means in the forward direction so that the carriage passes the second means before it passes the first means first speed detecting means for detecting the speed of said carriage before passing said second means second speed detecting means for detecting the speed of said carriage after passing said second means computing means for calculating the mass of the carriage from the force applied to the carriage by said second means and the outputs of said first and second speed detecting means and, for producing an output signal representative of the kinetic energy of the carriage from its mass and the output of the second speed detecting means and control means for controlling said first means in accordance with the output signal of said computing means to set the force imparted by said first means to said carriage. In the accompanying drawings Referring now to Figs. 1 and 2, a carriage 1 to be runned comprises a rectangular casing 2 adapted to carry goods, and a vertical reaction plate 3 connected to the bottom of the casing. The reaction plate 3 comprises a metal plate made of such electric conductor as copper, aluminum, etc. and constructed to be applied with forward or reverse propelling force created by magnetic flux generated by a stator 9 to be described later. Two pairs of horizontal wheels 4 projecting beyond the front and rear frames of the casing are provided at the front and rear ends of the carriage 2. Further, two pairs of wheels 5 are provided on both sides of the casing 2. The conveying road 6 is constituted by a pair of opposed U shaped guide rails 7. The distance The principle of generating the forward and reverse propelling forces of a linear induction motor will be described with reference to Figs. 4a and 4b. Fig. 4a is a perspective view showing a linear induction motor comprising a reaction plate 3 and a single stator 9 on one side thereof, while Fig. 4b is a graph showing the relationship between magnetic flux bg and eddy current jr. When two or 3 phase alternating current is passed through the coils of the stator 9, the instantaneous value bg T of the flux density in the gap in expressed by the following equation The pole pitch τ has a length of one half period of the flux density. Since the magnetic flux generated by the stator 9 alternates,it induces eddy current in the reaction plate 3 or a movable member according to Lenz s law. Marks and x depicted the section of the reaction plate 3 shown in Fig. 4a represent the direction and magnitude of the eddy current. Denoting the crest value of the eddy current by Jr, the instantaneous value of the eddy current can be shown by the following equation The control apparatus of this invention will be described with reference to Figs. 5 and 6. A first linear induction motor 10 acting as first control means applies a predetermined reverse test to the reaction piate 3, the magnitude of the reverse thrust being controlled by control means 21 to be described later. A second linear induction motor 11 acting as second control means is disposed in the front side of the first control means 10 for imparting a definite reverse thrust to the reaction plate 3. The amount of movement Ft corresponding to the definete reverse thrust is stored in a ROM 12. On the front side of the second control means 11 are disposed first and second detecting means 13 and 14 with a spacing ℓ₁ therebetween. The first and second detecting means 13 and 14 are constituted by luminous elements 13a and 14a and light receiving elements 13b and 14b which are disposed on the opposite sides of the conveying road or path 6. Between the first and second control means 10 and 11 are disposed third and fourth detecting means 15 and 16 with a spacing ℓ₂ therebetween. The third and fourth detecting means 15 and 16 are constituted by luminous elements 15a and 16a and light receiving elements 15b and 16b disposed on the opposite sides of the conveying road 6. A speed computing unit 17 which inputs the outputs of the first to fourth detecting means 13 16 calculates the speed The apparatus as above described operates as follows. To apply the propelling force to the carriage, 2 or 3 phase AC current is passed through the coils of the stator 9 to cause it to generate magnetic flux. Then eddy current is induced in the reaction plate 3 by the magnetic flux, and the product of the flux and the eddy current produces a continuous propelling force F according to the lefthand law of Fleming. When applied with the propelling force F, the body 1 runs along the road 6 by wheels 4 and 5 guided by guide rails 7. Goods of various weights are mounted on the casing so that in many cases the total weight of the load is unknown. The speed of the carriage 1 varies variously due to the friction caused by their its weight and the condition of the conveying road. In view of this fact, according to this embodiment, at the time of controlling the carriage by the first control means, the kinetic energy of the carriage is predetermined so as to apply a correct control force by the first control means in accordance with the kinetic energy. In this embodiment, to calculate the kinetic energy, the speed V₂ and the mass m of the carriage 1 are determined. More particularly, the speed computing unit 17 inputted with the outputs of the third and fourth detecting means 15 and 16 desposed on the front side of the carriage with the spacing ℓ₂ therebetween calculates the speed It should be understood that the invention is not limited to the specific embodiment described above and that many changes and modifications will be obvious to one skilled in the art without departing from true spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims. For example, the speed can be detected with Doppler apparatus. Furthermore, it should be understood that the construction of the kinetic energy detecting means 10 is not limited to that shown in the embodiment and that various constructions can be used. Instead of applying the invention to a conveying system utilizing a linear motor, the invention can equally be applied to various conveying systems utilizing other various means for controlling a carriage running under inertia. Although the foregoing description concerns a deceleration control, an acceleration control can also be made with a similar apparatus.