# EGG PRODUCTION

## Claims
Verfahren zur Verbesserung der Eierproduktion von Hennen oder anderen domestizierten Vögeln bezüglich gesteigerter Größe, verringerten Anteils von oder totalen Cholesterin Lipoidgehaltes, und gesteigerten Anteils von n 6 EFA s die Verbesserung im Vergleich mit Eiern, die von denselben Vögeln ohne Anwendung des Verfahrens produziert wurden ,

## Description
The invention relates to egg production by domesticated birds, particularly fowls. Eggs are one of the major sources of cholesterol in the diet, and currently renewed concern about the relationship of cholesterol to cardiovascular disease has led to the cholesterol content of eggs becoming an important barrier to increased consumption. There is, however, little or no cholesterol in the diet of hens and if cholesterol biosynthesis by the hen could be reduced, this might enable an egg to be produced with a lower content of cholesterol. A high intake of linoleic acid in the diet has long been known to reduce plasma cholesterol in humans, though the mechanism is unknown. We have found that the linoleic acid must be converted to γ linolenic acid GLA if it is to be effective, GLA being 100 200 times more potent at lowering human plasma cholesterol than is linoleic acid. It is uncertain as yet whether GLA or one of its metabolites is involved , but dihomo γ linolenic acid DGLA , arachidonic acid AA , 22 4n 6 and 22 5n 6, and the prostaglandins and related substances derived from DGLA, AA or 22 4n 6, are all possible candidates for the final active metabolite, the relations between them being as set out in the following diagram The broad outline of this pathway is well known, and it brings out clearly that a major function of essential fatty acids is to act as precursors for prostaglandins, 1 series PGs being formed from DGLA and 2 series PGs from arachidonic acid. Further, it has recently been found that the 22 4n 6 acid produced from arachidonic acid gives rise to a series of homo 2 series PGs though their importance is as yet unknown. DGLA is the key substance. GLA is almost completely and very rapidly converted in the body to DGLA and so for practical purposes the oral administration of DGLA and GLA amounts to the same thing. DGLA can be converted to a storage form or to PGs of the 1 series or, through arachidonic acid, to PGs of the 2 series. The pathways of metabolism of the n 6 essential fatty acids and the related n 3 acids sharing, it is believed, common enzymes in the two pathways, are The pathways are not normally reversible nor the n 3 and n 6 series acids interconvertible. The acids, which naturally are of the all cis configuration, are systematically named as derivatives of the corresponding octadecanoic, eicosanoic or docosanoic acids e.g. Δ A trial was set up in which 12 chickens were fed normal chow and 12 chickens chow with 10 of evening primrose oil EPO containing 9 of γ linolenic acid i.e. 0.9 of chow by weight was γ linolenic acid . An egg was taken from each bird every week. The figures reached a plateau at six weeks and the six week figures are therefore shown Thus GLA increased egg size, reduced cholesterol concentration and content per egg, and with the exception of arachidonic acid increased polyunsaturate concentration. According to the present invention there is provided a method of improvement of the egg production of hens or other domesticated birds in respect of increased size, reduced proportion of or total cholesterol lipid content, and increased proportion of n 6 EFA s the improvement being in comparison with eggs produced by the same birds without employment of the method , characterised in that the birds are given feed supplemented with one or more of gamma linolenic acid in the form of the free acid or an ester, amide phospholipid salt or other physiologically acceptable derivative convertible in the bird s body to, or having the effect of, the free acid. Preferably the supplement calculated as gamma linolenic acid constitutes 0.01 to 10 by weight of the feed. The supplement may be given in the form of Evening Primrose or other seed residue. Convenient derivatives of gamma linolenic acid in particular include the C₁ C₄ alkyl e.g. methyl esters and the glycerides. Generally herein reference to an EFA is to be taken as including reference to the acid when in the form of a derivative. Convertability is demonstrated by entry into the pathway quoted herein, as evidenced by effects corresponding to those of the acids themselves or their natural glyceride esters. Thus, indirect identification of useful derivatives is by their having the valuable effect of the acid itself, but conversion can be shown directly by gas chromatographic analysis of concentrations in blood, body fat, or other tissue by standard techniques, for example those of Pelick et al. P. 23, Analysis of Lipids and Lipoproteins Ed. Perkins, American Oil Chemists Society, Champaign, Illinois, U.S.A. In outline the method is suitably that plasma or other samples 1 ml are extracted with chloroform methanol 2 1 . The extract is filtered through sodium sulphate, evaporated to dryness, and taken up in 0.5 ml chloroform methanol. The lipid fractions are separated by thin layer chromatography on silica gel plates. The phospholipid fraction, taken to reflect essential fatty acid contents most sensitively, is methylated using boron trifluoride methanol. The resulting methyl esters of the fatty acids are separated and measured using a Hewlett Packard 5880 gas chromatograph with a six foot approx. 1.8m column packed with 10 silar on chromosorb WAW 106 230. The carrier gas is helium 30 ml min . Oven temperature is programmed to rise from 165 C to 190 C at 2 C min. Detector temperature is 220 C and injector temperature 200 C. Retention times and peak areas are automatically computed by Hewlett Packard Level 4 integrator. Peaks are identified by comparison with standard fatty acid methyl esters. It is at present convenient to incorporate γ linolenic acid in the form of an available oil having a high γ linolenic acid content. At the present time known natural sources of oils having a high γ linolenic acid content are few there are no known natural sources of significant amounts of dihomo γ linolenic acid . One source of oils currently available is the seed of Evening Primrose species such as The seed oil can be used as such or can if desired be fractionated to yield an oily composition containing the triglycerides of γ linolenic and linoleic acid as the main fatty acid components, the γ linolenic acid content being if desired a major proportion. Seed oil extracts appear to have a stabilising effect upon any dihomo γ linolenic acid or physiologically functional derivative thereof. The oil is extracted from the seeds by one of the conventional methods of extraction such as cold pressure, screw pressure after partially cooking the seed, or solvent extraction. Fractionation of a typical sample of this oil shows a yield of 97.0 oil in the form of methyl esters, with the relative proportions Sources of other n 6 EFA s are, for example from slaughter houses but normally γ linolenic acid will be preferred for economic reasons. The experimental work quoted earlier herein is, as to the preparation of EPO chow and egg production using it, an example of the application of the invention. Similar results are obtainable by feeding normal chow supplemented by 50 or more of its weight of evening primrose seed residue after conventional extraction of the greater part of the oil by the methods referred to herein. Alternatives to the Evening Primrose seed are blackcurrant, redcurrant or gooseberry seed residues, the seeds themselves may be fed, particularly for example seed cake from production of blackcurrant drinks. Moreover, recent studies on fungi which can be cultivated by fermentation promise a fungal oil source. Laying hens are fed standard dry layer s mash as sold by feed compounders such as BOCM Silcock or Spillers at the rate of 120 g per bird per day, supplemented with Evening Primrose seed oil approx. 8 or 9 γ linolenic acid 5 g, fed pre mixed with a portion of the mash. Hens are fed mash as last at 100 g per bird per day supplemented with 20 g Evening Primrose seed itself to give approximately 0.3 g γ linolenic acid per bird per day. Hens are fed mash as in Example 1 but reduced in amount to 75 g per bird per day with 50 g per bird per day of the residue from mechanical extraction of oil from Evening Primrose seed, giving ca. 0.05 γ linolenic acid in the feed based on total feed weight. Hens are fed mash as in Example 1 but reduced in amount to 100 g per bird per day with 50 g per bird per day of dry pip cake from extraction of blackcurrant juice for fruit drinks. The principal unsaturated fatty acids in the oil of such pips are in a typical analysis by weight and, according to the variety and condition of growth, the dry pip cake may contain 20 lipid by weight, giving somewhat over 1 γ linolenic acid based on feed weight.