# DIETETIC FROZEN DESSERTS CONTAINING ASPARTAME

## Claims
Gefrorens Diätdessert umfassend einer Süßstoff Füllstoff Zusammensetzung, umfassend

## Description
This invention relates to dietetic frozen desserts which have essentially all the sugar normally in their non dietetic counterparts replaced by a sufficient amount of an aspartame L aspartyl L phenylalanine methyl ester sweetener composition and a bulking agent composition to provide a dietetic frozen dessert having acceptable taste and structure as evidenced by so called mouthfeel . Typical of the frozen desserts contemplated are ice cream, ice milk, sherbet, frozen yogurt, frozen custard, sorbet, ices, tofuti and imitation icecream mellorine or parevine types . In previous attempts to reduce the caloric content of frozen desserts, only part of the sugar was replaced by sweeteners such as aspartame. This was necessary because the amount of aspartame required to replace a given volume of sugar and keep the same sweetness level is very small as aspartame is about 200 times as sweet as sugar. This results in a reduction in volume which has a deleterious effect on the structure of the dessert, causing the mouthfeel to be inferior and an inferior product to result. McPherson et al., J. Food Sci. Searle Consumer Products Division of Searle Pharmaceuticals Inc. has technical bulletins published in 1983, one of which discloses the use of Equal low calorie sweetener with aspartame in recipes for consumer use and the other for industrial users discloses the uses of aspartame in a variety of formulations. Neither bulletin discloses the use of aspartame in combination with another non caloric or low caloric sweetener having synergistic sweetening properties with aspartame in frozen desserts. Searle has thus not made available to the public any technical information or guidance on the use of aspartame and its synergistic sweeteners in frozen dietetic desserts. Anderson, J., Unforbidden Desserts , Arbor House, New York, New York, 1982 used aspartame as a sweetener for ice cream but required corn syrup solids, sugar or gelatin as bulking agents. This resulted in only a small reduction in the caloric content. The Journal of Commerce, September 2, 1983 reported that Pfizer Chemical Division has received approval from the U. S. FDA for the use of polydextrose in frozen dairy desserts. Pfizer Chemical Division in a brochure entitled Polydextrose reduced calorie bulking agents 1983 does not disclose any frozen desserts with aspartame. Smiles, Chemistry of Foods and Beverages Recent Developments , Academic Press Inc. New York, New York 1982 and in The Functional Application of Polydextrose 1983 discusses the use of polydextrose as a low calorie 1 cal gm bulking agent in foods which gives them the texture and mouthfeel qualities normally provided by sugar and fat. There are no discussions or references to frozen desserts or to aspartame. Figdor et al., Caloric Utilization and Disposition of ¹⁴C Polydextrose in Rat and Man , AGFD, paper 199, 1983 disclose that polydextrose is a tasteless non sweet low calorie bulking agent formed by the random polymerization of glucose with lesser amounts of sorbitol and citric acid. It is not adsorbed after being orally ingested and the major portion is excreted in the feces. Polydextrose has approximately 1 cal gm or about 25 the value of glucose. Figdor et al., in addition, state that polydextrose is intended as a total or partial replacement for sugar and as a partial replacement for the bulk of fat and flour in a variety of common processed foods with a resultant reduction in calories. No mention is made of frozen desserts or aspartame. FMC Corporation, in Bulletin RC 52 entitled Avicel microcrystalline cellulose in frozen desserts and Bulletin C 55 entitled Avicel Application Bulletin 1980 disclose the use of Avicel as a stabilizer for various frozen desserts. None of the disclosed formulations contain aspartame or aspartame synergist sweeteners. There is research ongoing in the field of low calorie frozen desserts. D. H. Goff and W. K. Jordan of the Department of Food Science at Cornell University in Ithaca, New York have been unsuccessful in formulating low calorie frozen desserts since they require the use of corn syrup solids or sorbitol. This is also disclosed in Goff et al., Aspartame and Corn Syrup Solids as Sweeteners for Ice Cream , Modern Dairy, Ms. N. Knezevich, author of Mina s Sugarless Ice Cream Parlour , Elmhurst, New York has developed 25 recipes using aspartame instead of sugar in a variety of frozen desserts. None of the recipes include aspartame and a non caloric synergistic sweetener used in combination with polydextrose or other bulking agents. Because of increased attention given to controlled caloric intake in the diet, dietetic frozen desserts with non sugar sweeteners are a very desirable product. Other reduced calorie products envisaged in the prior art include those described in US A 4,435,439. US A 4,158,068 and US A 3,780,189. US A 4,435,439 describes a frozen fat free dessert which utilizes microcrystalline cellulose as a hulking agent together with a non nutritive sweetening agent such as saccharin. US A 4,158,068 discloses a sweetener mixture consisting of acetosulfame and other artificial sweeteners. US A 3,780,189 describes sweetening compositions consisting of combinations of L aspartyl L phenylalanine methyl ester and saccharin. The present invention provides an improved sweetener hulking agent composition suitable for use in dietetic frozen desserts having improved taste and structure comprising In more detail, this invention provides dietetic frozen desserts in which the sugar normally in such desserts as well as some of the milk, animal and or vegetable fats, lactose and milk solids are replaced by low calorie sweetener hulking agent compositions. In another aspect, this invention provides an aspartame containing composition which can be used in dietetic frozen desserts free of or low in milk fat, animal fat and or vegetable fat and total solids to replace the sweetness and functional properties of sucrose and the fats and solids, thereby obtaining a significant reduction in calories. The lactose in the frozen desserts containing milk products is converted by the enzyme lactase into galactose and glucose which is three times sweeter than lactose. The amount of aspartame containing composition of this invention used in the frozen desserts of this invention varies with the nature of the dessert and the amounts of sucrose and metabolizable fats normally present therein. For example, ice cream normally contains about 15 17 sucrose and corn syrup sweetener, about 10 or more butterfat and about 35 total milk solids. All of the sweetener can be replaced and part of the butterfat and milk solids can be replaced or enzymatically modified by the composition of this invention. Other frozen desserts normally contain from about 10 to 25 sucrose and other caloric sugar sweeteners and about 2 to 20 butterfat and milk solids. All of the sweetener and part of the milk fats or other fats, such as those in mellorine desserts, and solids in these other desserts can also be replaced or enzymatically modified by the compositions of this invention. High fat content ice creams such as Haagen Dazs , Frusen Gladje or Alpen Zauber which have about 16 fats and about 20 air and Godiva which has about 20 fat and 20 air are considered quality products characterized as rich desserts. This invention achieves a frozen rich dessert of the same types without their caloric content. The aspartame containing composition of this invention is comprised of a combination of an aspartame containing sweetener composition and a bulking agent composition. This combination contains about 0.1 to 1.0 sweetener and the remaining amount protein, carbohydrate and or enzymes. Sufficient amount of the composition is added to the formulations for the frozen dietetic desserts of this invention to provide, on a weight basis, from about 0.04 to 1.4 aspartame therein. The sweeteners contemplated for use in this invention are aspartame, which can be used alone or in combinations with another non caloric or low caloric sweetener known to have synergistic sweetening properties with aspartame. e. g. saccharin, acesulfame, thaumatin, chalcone, cyclamate, stevioside and the like. The synergistic compositions are more economical and impart good sweetness without aftertaste. These synergistic mixtures contain about 50 by weight of each sweetener. Since the synergistic mixtures are sweeter than aspartame alone, lesser amounts are needed than of aspartame alone in the frozen dietetic desserts of this invention. The bulking agent in the aspartame containing compositions of this invention preferably is not metabolizable and contributes no taste. For example polydextrose, in liquid or solid form, supplies one calorie per gram. It can be used in combination with a minor amount of sugar alcohols such as mannitol,xylitol and the like. These sugar alcohols contribute sweetness and are usually metabolizable. Sorbitol can be used in combination with polydextrose according to this invention when the sweetener composition is a combination of aspartame and its sweetness synergists noted above. Minor amounts of sugars such as corn syrup, fructose, dextrose or glucose contribute some sweetness and can also be present. The function of the bulking agent is to provide structure and mouthfeel qualities which are normally provided by sucrose, fructose, sorbitol, or, in the case of non dairy desserts. vegetable or animal fat, or honey. Rennet can also be used with the polydextrose as the hulking agent. Rennet is an enzyme made from animal, bacterial or genetic engineering sources cures and structures the protein of milk and gives it bulk. Rennet is an example of a clotting enzyme. The enzyme lactase converts most of the lactose in milk, yogurt and whey to galactose and glucose, increasing the sweetness of lactose threefold. Whey, yogurt or milk not created with lactase can be used in combination with polydextrose to help provide bulking and structure. but more of them are needed than if they are treated by clotting enzymes. Whey, for example, is used in sugar free frozen yogurt by Bridge Farm Dairies. Mildenhall, Suffolk, England. Fermented whey can also be used as the hulking agent or in the bulking agent composition. Other materials which can be used either as the bulking agent or in the bulking agent composition are carboxymethylcellulose CMC or carboxyethylcellulose CEC such as Avicel microcrystalline cellulose TM of FMC Corporation, Philadelphia, Pa. . Tofu soybean protein acts as a bulking agent in tofuti, a soybean protein frozen dessert in which the honey therein is replaced with an aspartame containing sweetener composition according to this invention. Tofu can also be used in a bulking agent composition in non airy dietetic frozen desserts such as non dairy mellorine. Other proteins produced by genetic engineering can also be used in the bulking agent compositions of this invention. Although the above hulking agents are preferably used in combination with polydextrose, they can be used alone as hulking agents or in mixtures with each other in the frozen dietetic desserts of this invention. The sweetener and hulking agent can be added to the frozen dietetic dessert formulation as is, either in liquid or particulate solid form, or can be encapsulated to form a free flowing powder. The frozen dietetic desserts of this invention such as ice cream must contain certain minimum amounts of milk fats and milk solids to be recognized as ice cream. The other frozen desserts such as ice milk, frozen yogurt, sherbet, tofuti and sorbet each have their own requirements which must be met in their formulations in order to be recognized as a particular type of dessert. For example, imitation ice creams, non dairy dietetic frozen desserts, mellorines and tofuti can use other fats in place of milk fats, e.g. Lipifats non caloric fats . They can be used in some ice cream formulations to replace part or all of the milk fats and milk solids. These materials can replace from about 10 to 100 of the fats in frozen desserts. Mellorine frozen dessert formulations are defined by the United States Standard of Identity on food produced by freezing, under agitation, non fat solids derived from milk and animal and or vegetable fats, part of which may be milk fat. A typical mellorine frozen dessert formulation contains not less than 1.6 pounds per gallon 190 kg m³ of total solids and weighs not less than 4.5 pounds per gallon 540 kg m³ . The dietetic product of this invention, however, can he half of this weight per gallon and the air therein can be greater than the 100 overrun now permitted in non dietetic mellorine desserts. The fat content of mellorine according to this invention is more than 2.7 by weight with a protein efficiency ratio not less than that of whole milk protein on the basis of the mellorine weight exclusive of any flavoring ingredients such as chocolate, cocoa, fruits or nuts. Vitamin A must be present in a quantity that will ensure 40 international units per gram of fatty substance fat or sucrose polyester nonmetabolizable fat by Procter and Gamble . The melting point of the fats or neo fats can he from 30 C to 41 C and prepared by partial hydrogenation, blend of hard and sort margarine components and use of hardened sucrose polyesters. Higher melting points or the presence of fatty hydrogenated fats cause a greasy mouthfeel. The above criteria results in proper texture and consistency for spooning the frozen dessert. A stabilizer comprising one of several vegetable gums or other materials which act as stabilizers are also used as are emulsifiers such as mono and di glycerides, with or without polysorbate 60. The following examples illustrate the effects of compositions of this invention on the acceptability, mouthfeel and sweetness of dietetic frozen desserts. A synergistic thickening composition made from fermented whey can he used in combination with aspartame or aspartame and a synergistic sweetener as described above. The composition is prepared as follows The mixture of the product of a and b comprises from 0.1 to 4 of the functionalized dairy whey product of a with from 5 to 25 by weight of the functionalized dairy whey product of b , When mixed with the aspartame sweetener composition, the mixture of this Example 1 is used to make dietetic frozen desserts with excellent organoleptic and physical properties. Combine milk fat solids, non fat milk solids, polydextrose, microcrystalline cellulose, fermented demineralized whey, aspartame and water into a vat for solubilization. Heat to 113 120 F 45 49 C while agitating the mix until all ingredients are dissolved. The temperature must be maintained at no higher than 120 F so the aspartame will not decompose or lose effectiveness. Pasteurize the mix by HTST methods and homogenize at about 2,200 PSI 15 MPa in the first stage and at 500 PSI in the second stage prior to cooling to 38 F 3.3 C , cool to about 38 F 3.3 C and age for about 20 hours. Add color and flavor and freeze while blowing air to 120 . The dessert thus prepared has approximately 100 calories 419 KJ per 100 gram serving, whereas standard ice cream has 200 837 KJ calories per 100 gram serving. By substituting aspartame in combination with synergistic sweeteners, as little as 0.2 by weight aspartame can be used in the formulation. By substituting sucrose polyester, Lipifats non caloric fats or Mardi Gras Fats for about 50 of the milk fat solids, the calorie content can be reduced even further and there is obtained an ideal frozen dessert of high quality and low calories. In preparing sugar free desserts such as frozen yogurt and other dairy desserts as well as soybean and non dairy desserts, aspartame and its synergistic sweetener mixtures are incorporated into such desserts including soybean and non dairy desserts sold in the chilled not freezer compartments of grocery stores and supermarkets. With the exception of plain yogurt, dessert yugurts contain a flavor such as vanilla, coffee, chocolate or fruit, or a puree of fruit, fruit jam or fruit. Sugar is added to these mixes, usually to the extent of 10 solids content of the yogurt or dessert. Aspartame is added to the yogurt culture at about 1 160 the amount of sugar to replace 51 to 100 of the sucrose or other nutritive caloric sugar. Aspartame synergistic sweetener mixtures can also be used according to this invention. The synergist thaumatin is ideally suited for flavor and sweetness enhancement with as little as 0.001 parts of sweetener called Sweetin . The Sweetin simultaneously with flavor and sweetness enhancement creates a novel flavor for chilled desserts as well as all diet desserts which do not require intensive heating. When heating is required, the synergistic sweetener which can then be used is acesulfame. The source of the thaumatin is not critical to this invention since thaumatin made by genetic engineering is as good for sweetening as thaumatin extracted from the katemfe African bush. It is described in Merck Index, 9th Edition, 1194, 1976 as being a sweet tasting basic protein extracted from the fruit of the tropical plant Further reduction in the caloric content of the above described dairy desserts is attained by using the enzyme lactase which converts about 50 or more of the milk lactose present therein into the much sweeter glucose and galactose. A further substantial reduction in calories can be attained by replacing about 10 to 100 of the caloric fats in the yogurt or dessert with sucrose polyester as described hereinabove. Such a low calorie yogurt is identified as Lo gurt . The above described desserts may be used frozen, chilled or, where possible, at room temperature.