# Organo borate compositions and their use in lubricants

## Claims
Borhaltige Zusammensetzung, umfassend eine Organoboratverbindungder allgemeinen Formel

## Description
The present invention relates to boron containing compositions and to lubricating compositionscontaining the same. Particularly, the invention relates to organo borate compounds and to lubricatingcompositions containing such compounds. As is well known, many present day lubricating problems involve providing adequate lubricationbetween moving metal surfaces which are brought into forceful working relationship. Thus, there is a needfor lubricants of sufficient lubricity to provide lubrication between the bearing surfaces of moving metalcomponents where the bearing surfaces are subjected to large forces at the point of contact. These forcesand the accompanying friction result in the generation of heat which elevates the metal temperatures. If thepressure is sufficiently high and the relative motion between surfaces sufficient, very high metal temperaturescan result. Thus, in extreme cases, the contacting metal surfaces may actually weld one to the other.With less extremes of pressure, inadequate lubrication between surfaces is manifested in accelerated wear,scuffing, etc. In addition to anti wear and extreme pressure properties, lubricants for use in limited slip differentialsrequire unusual frictional properties. Limited slip differentials are unlike conventional differentials in that theyhave the ability to move a vehicle when only one wheel has traction. This advantage is accomplishedthrough an internal clutch that restricts conventional differential action and tends to make the left and rightrear axle shafts turn as one. There are a variety of clutch arrangements employed to accomplish this resultbut most rely on the force of friction to restrict the free turning of the axle shaft. Since the clutches arecontinuously contacted by the differential lubricant, the restricting force depends on the coefficient of frictionimparted to the engaging parts by said lubricant. The coefficient of friction must be compromised. On theone hand, it must be high enough to allow the clutch plates to seize, thus allowing the vehicle to move ininstances when one rear wheel has low traction and, on the other hand, it must be sufficiently low to allowthe clutch plates to slip and accommodate conventional differential action such as occurs when the vehicleturns corners. The ability of a lubricant to impart a coefficient of friction within this fairly wide effective rangeis referred to as effectiveness. Another important aspect of frictional properties relates to the chatter or noise caused by the differentialaction of clutches. Chatter is generated by a stick slip action of the engaging parts of the clutches.Differential manufacturers have found that stick slip is primarily the result of the static coefficient of frictionbeing greater than the dynamic coefficient of friction, that is, when the ratio of the static coefficient offriction to the dynamic coefficient of friction is greater than one. Still another important aspect of the frictional properties of lubricating compositions relates to the use ofsuch compositions in contact with wet type disc brakes such as those employed in the differentials ofheavy duty machinery and particularly high powered output tractors. In such applications, these lubricatingcompositions, in addition to not promoting brake chatter, must also not interfere or prevent proper brakingaction. Many diverse additives for enhancing anti wear, extreme pressure, friction modifying and axle efficiencyperformance properties are well known in the prior art. Examples of such additives are chlorinated waxes,alkyl polysulfides, alkyl phosphites, alkaryl phosphates, metal dithiophosphates, sulfurized sperm oil,sulfurized olefins, alkali metal borates, and the like. However, a need still exists for a single material whichcan provide all of these properties. In one aspect, the invention provides a boron containing composition comprising an organo boratecompound of the general formulae The lubricating compositions of this invention, comprising a major proportion of an oil of lubricating viscosity and a minor proportion of the organo borate compound defined above and described in moredetail hereinbelow, exhibit anti wear, extreme pressure, friction modifying and axle efficiency performancecharacteristics. The multi functional additive compositions of this invention may be prepared by the reaction of a boroncompound selected from boric acid, boron trioxide and boric acid esters of the formula B OR In a most preferred embodiment, the tertiary amines useful in preparing the multi functional organo borateadditive compositions of this invention are those tertiary amines corresponding to formula III abovewherein R As will be evident to those reading this application, the above defined tertiary amines provide the As used herein, the term hydrocarbon based radical denotes a radical having a carbon atom directlyattached to the remainder of the molecule and having predominantly hydrocarbon character within thecontext of this invention. Such radicals include the following Hetero radicals that is radicals which, while predominantly hydrocarbon in character within the contextof this invention, contain atoms other than carbon present in a chain or ring otherwise composed of carbonatoms. Suitable hetero atoms will be apparent to those skilled in the art and include, for example, nitrogen,oxygen and sulfur. In general, no more than about three substituents or hetero atoms, and preferably no more than one,will be present for each 10 carbon atoms in the hydrocarbon based radical. Terms such as alkyl based radical, alkenyl based radical and alkylene based radical and the likehave analogous meanings with respect to alkyl and aryl radicals and the like. Representative examples of the tertiary amine compounds useful in preparing the organo boratecompounds of this invention include monoalkoxylated amines such as dimethylethanolamine,diethylethanolamine, dibutylethanolamine, diisopropylethanolamine, di 2 ethylhexyl ethanolamine,phenylethylethanolamine, dibutylisopropanolamine. dimethylisopropanolamine and the like and polyalkoxylatedamines such as methyldiethanolamine, ethyldiethanolamine, phenyldiethanolamine, N 2 hydroxyethyl N tallow 3 aminomethylpropionate,N 2 hydroxyethyl N tallow acetamide, 2 oleoylethyl 2 hydroxyethyl tallowamine, 2 methoxy ethyl 2 hydroxyethyl tallowamine, and the like. An especially preferred class of tertiary amines useful in preparing the organo borate compounds of theinvention is that constituting the commercial alkoxylated fatty amines known by the trademark ETHOMEEN and available from tne Armak Company. Representative examples of these ETHOMEENS isETHOMEEN C 12 bis 2 hydroxyethyl cocoamine ETHOMEEN C 20 polyoxyethylene 10 cocoamine ETHOMEEN S 12 bis 2 hydroxyethyl soyamine ETHOMEEN T 12 bis 2 hydroxyethyl tallowamine ETHOMEEN T 15 polyoxyethylene 5 tallowamine ETHOMEEN 0 12 bis 2 hydroxyethyl oleylamine ETHOMEEN 18 12 bis 2 hydroxyethyl octadecylamine ETHOMEEN 18 25 polyoxyethylene 15 octadecylamineand the like. Of the various ETHOMEEN compounds useful in preparing the organo borateadditive compounds of the invention, ETHOMEEN T 12 is most preferred. If desired, the tertiary amine reactants represented by formula III above may be reacted first withelemental sulfur to sulfurize any carbon to carbon double bond unsaturation which may be present in thehydrocarbon based radicals R The organo borate additive compositions of this invention can be prepared by adding the boronreactant, preferably boric acid, to at least one of the above defined tertiary amine reactants, in a suitablereaction vessel, and heating the resulting reaction mixture at a temperature ranging from about 50 to about300 C with continuous stirring. The reaction is continued until by product water ceases to evolve from thereaction mixture indicating completion of the reaction. The removal of by product water is facilitated byeither blowing an inert gas, such as nitrogen, over the surface of the reaction mixture or by conducting thereaction at reduced pressures. Preferably the reaction between the boron reactant and the tertiary aminewill be carried out at temperatures ranging from about 100 C to about 250 C and most preferably betweenabout 150 C and 230 C while blowing with nitrogen. Although normally the amines will be liquid at room temperature, in those instances where the aminereactant is a solid or semi solid it will be necessary to heat the amine to above its melting point in order toliquify it prior to the addition of the boron containing reactant thereto. Those of ordinary skill in the art canreadily determine the melting point of the amine either from the general literature or through a simplemelting point analysis. Generally, the amine reactant alone will serve as the solvent for the reaction mixture of the boroncontaining reactant and amine reactant. However, if desired, an inert normally liquid organic solvent can beused such as mineral oil, naphthabenzene, toluene or xylene can be used as the reaction media. Where theorgano borate additive compound is to be added directly to a lubricating oil, it is generally preferred toconduct the reaction merely using the amine reactant as the sole solvent. As noted immediately above, the organo borate additive compositions of this invention can be addeddirectly to an oil of lubricating viscosity to form a lubricating composition of the present invention or, theycan be diluted with a substantially inert, normally liquid organic diluent such as mineral oil, naphthabenzene,toluene or xylene to form an additive concentrate which is then added to the lubricating oil. Theseconcentrates usually contain from about 10 to about 90 by weight of the organo borate compositions ofthe invention and may contain, in addition, one or more additives known in the art such as those describedhereinbelow. As previously indicated, the multi functional organo borate compositions described herein are useful asadditives for lubricants in which they function primarily as anti wear, extreme pressure, friction modifyingand or axle efficiency improving materials. They can be employed in a wide variety of lubricants based ondiverse oils of lubricating viscosity and mixtures thereof. These lubricants include crankcase lubricating oilsfor spark ignited and compression ignited internal combustion engines including automobile and truckengines, two cycle engines. aviation piston engines, marine and railroad diesel engines, and the like. Theadditive compositions can also be used in gas turbines, stationary power engines and turbines and the like.Automatic transmission fluids, transaxle lubricants, gear lubricants, metal working lubricants, hydraulic fluidsand other lubricating oil and grease compositions also benefit from the incorporation therein of the multi functionalcompositions of this invention. Natural oils include liquid petroleum oils and solvent treated or acid treated mineral lubricating oils ofthe paraffinic, naphthenic and mixed paraffinic naphthenic types. Oils of lubricating viscosity derived fromcoal or shale are also useful base oils. Synthetic lubricating oils include hydrocarbon oils and halo substituted hydrocarbon oils such aspolymerized and interpolymerized olefins e.g. polybutylenes, polypropylenes, propylene isobutylene copolymers,chlorinated polybutylenes, poly 1 hexenes , poly 1 octenes , poly 1 decenes alkyl benzenes e.g., dodecylbenzenes, tetradecylbenzenes, dinonylbenzenes, di 2 ethylhexyl benzenes polyphenyls e.g..biphenyls, terphenyls. alkylated polyphenyls alkylated diphenyl ethers, alkylated diphenyl sulfides and thederivatives, analogs and homologs thereof. Alkylene oxide polymers and interpolymers and derivatives thereof where the terminal hydroxyl groupshave been modified by esterification, etherification, etc., constitute another class of known syntheticlubricating oils. These are exemplified by polyoxyalkylene polymers prepared by polymerization of ethyleneoxide or propylene oxide, the alkyl and aryl ethers of these polyoxyalkylene polymers e.g., methylpolyisopropyleneglycol ether having an average molecular weight of 1000, diphenyl ether of polyethyleneglycol having a molecular weight of 500 1000, diethylether of polypropylene glycol having a molecularweight of 1000 1500 and mono and polycarboxylic esters thereof, for example, the acetic acid esters. mixed C Another suitable class of synthetic lubricating oils comprises the esters of dicarboxylic acids e.g..phthalic acid, succinic acid, alkyl succinic acids and alkenyl succinic acids, maleic acid, azelaic acid,suberic acid, sebacic acid, fumaric acid, adipic acid, linoleic acid dimer, malonic acid, alkyl malonic acid,alkenyl malonic acids and the like with a variety of alcohols e.g., butyl alcohol, hexyl alcohol, dodecylalcohol, 2 ethylhexyl alcohol, ethylene glycol, diethylene glycol monoether, propylene glycol . Specificexamples of these esters include dibutyl adipate, di 2 ethylhexyl sebacate, di n hexyl fumarate, dioctylsebacate, diisooctyl azelate, diisodecyl azelate, dioctyl phthalate, didecyl phthalate, dieicosyl sebacate, the2 ethylhexyl diester of linoleic acid dimer, and the complex ester formed by reacting one mole of sebacicacid with two moles of tetraethylene glycol and two moles of 2 ethylhexanoic acid. Esters useful as synthetic oils also include those made from C Silicone based oils such as the polyalkyl , polyaryl , polyalkoxy , polyaryloxysiloxane oils and silicateoils comprise another useful class of synthetic lubricants. These include tetraethyl silicate, tetraisopropylsilicate, tetra 2 ethylhexyl silicate, tetra 4 methyl 2 ethylhexyl silicate, tetra p tert butylphenyl silicate,hexa 4 methyl 2 pentoxy disiloxane, poly methyl siloxanes, poly methylphenyl siloxanes, and the like. Othersynthetic lubricating oils include liquid esters of phosphorus containing acids e.g., tricresyl phosphate,trioctyl phosphate, diethylester of decylphosphonic acid and polymeric tetrahydrofurans and the like. Unrefined, refined and re refined oils can be used to form the lubricant compositions of the presentinvention. Unrefined oils are those obtained directly from a natural or synthetic source without furtherpurification treatment. For example, a shale oil obtained directly from retorting operations, a petroleum oilobtained directly from distillation or ester oil obtained directly from an esterification process and usedwithout further treatment would be an unrefined oil. Refined oils are similar to the unrefined oils except theyhave been further treated in one or more purification steps to improve one or more properties. Many suchpurification techniques such as distillation, solvent extraction, acid or base extraction, filtration and percolationare known to those skilled in the art. Re refined oils are obtained by processes similar to those used toobtain re refined oils applied to refined oils which have already been used in the service. Such re refinedoils are also known as reclaimed or reprocessed oils and often are additionally processed by techniques forremoval of spent additives and oil breakdown products. Generally, the lubricating compositions of the present invention contain an amount of the multi functionalorgano borate compounds of this invention sufficient to provide said lubricating compositions withanti wear, extreme pressure, friction modifying and axle efficiency performance properties. Normally, thisamount will range from about 0.1 to about 10.0 percent by weight, and preferably from about 0.1 to about5.0 percent by weight based on the total weight of the lubricating composition. As used throughout this specification and appended claims, the term minor amount is intended tomean that when a lubricating composition contains a minor amount of a specific additive material, thatamount is less than 50 percent by weight of the total composition. The term major amount as usedthroughout this specification and appended claims is intended to mean that when the lubricating compositioncontains a major amount of a lubricating oil, that amount is more than 50 percent by weight of thetotal lubricating composition. The invention also contemplates the use of other additives in combination with the compositions of thisinvention. Such additives include, for example, detergents and dispersants of the ash producing or ashlesstype, corrosion and oxidation inhibiting agents, pour point depressing agents, viscosity index VI improvers,supplemental anti wear and extreme pressure agents, color stabilizers and anti foam agents. The ash producing detergents are exemplified by oil soluble neutral and basic salts of alkali or alkalineearth metals with sulfonic acids, carboxylic acids, and organic phosphorus acids characterized by at leastone direct carbon to phosphorus linkage including those prepared by the treatment of an olefin polymer e.g., polyisobutene having a molecular weight of 1000 with a phosphorizing agent such as phosphorustrichloride, phosphorus heptasulfide, phosphorus pentasulfide, phosphorus trichloride and sulfur, whitephosphorus and a sulfur halide, or phosphorodithioic chloride. The most commonly used salts of such acidsare those of sodium, potassium, lithium, calcium, magnesium, strontium and barium. The term basic salt is used to designate metal salts wherein the metal is present in stoichiometricallylarger amounts than the organic acid radical. The commonly employed methods for preparing the basicsalts involve heating a mineral oil solution of an acid with a stoichiometric excess of a metal neutralizingagent such as the metal oxide, hydroxide, carbonate, bicarbonate, or sulfide at a temperature above 50 Cand filtering the resulting mass. The use of a promoter in the neutralization step to aid in the incorporationof a large excess of metal likewise is known. Examples of compounds useful as the promoter include phenolic substances such as phenol, naphthol, alkylphenols, thiophenol, sulfurized alkylphenols, andcondensation products of formaldehyde with phenolic substances alcohols such as methanol, 2 propanol,octyl alcohol, Cellosolve, Carbitol, ethylene glycol, stearyl alcohol and cyclohexyl alcohol and amines suchas aniline, phenylenediamine, phenothiazine, phenyl β naphthylamine and dodecylamine. A particularlyeffective method for preparing the basic salts comprises mixing an acid with an excess of a basic alkalineearth metal neutralizing agent and at least one alcohol promoter and carbonating the mixture at an elevatedtemperature such as 60 200 C. Ashless detergents and dispersants are so called despite the fact that depending upon their constitution,the dispersants may, upon combustion, yield a non volatile material such as boric oxide or phosphoruspentoxide however, it does not ordinarily contain metal and, therefore, does not yield a metal containingash on combustion. Many types are known in the art and any of them are suitable for use in the lubricatingcompositions of this invention. The following are illustrative All of the above noted patents are incorporated herein by reference for their disclosures of ashlessdispersants suitable for use in combination with the multifunctional organo borate compounds of the presentinvention. Supplementary anti wear and extreme pressure agents and corrosion and oxidation inhibiting agents areexemplified by chlorinated aliphatic hydrocarbons such as chlorinated wax organic sulfides and polysulfidessuch as benzyl disulfide, bis chlorobenzyl disulfide, dibutyltetrasulfide, sulfurized methyl oleate, sulfurizedalkylphenols, sulfurized dipentene, and sulfurized terpenes phosphosulfurized hydrocarbons such as thereaction product of a phosphorus sulfide with terpentine or methyl oleate phosphorus esters includingprincipally dihydrocarbon and trihydrocarbon phosphites such as dibutyl phosphite, diheptyl phosphite.dicyclohexyl phosphite, pentylphenyl phosphite, dipentylphenyl phosphite, tridecyl phosphite, distearylphosphite, dimethylnaphthyl phosphite, oleyl 4 pentylphenyl phosphite, polypropylene molecular weight of500 substituted phenyl phosphite and diisobutyl substituted phenyl phosphite metal thiocarbamates suchas zinc dioctyldithiocarbamate and barium heptylphenyldithiocarbamate group II metal phosphorodithioatessuch as zinc dicyclohexylphosphorodithioate, zinc dioctylphosphorodithioate, barium di heptylphenyl phosphorodithioate,cadmiumdinonylphosphorodithioate and the zinc salt of a phosphorodithioic acid producedby the reaction of phosphorus pentasulfide with an equimolar mixture of isopropyl alcohol and n hexylalcohol. The following examples illustrate the preparation of the multi functional organo borate additives and thelubricating compositions containing the same of the present invention. It should be understood that they areonly illustrative and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention. Unless otherwise specified, all partsand percentages disclosed in these examples are by weight. A mixture of 702 parts 6 moles of 2 diethylaminoethanol, 124 parts 2 moles of boric acid and 500 parts of toluene is heated to boiling under nitrogen, with stirring, and water is removed by azeotropicdistillation. When water removal is complete, the mixture is vacuum stripped and filtered. The filtrate is thedesired boron containing composition. A mixture of 2100 parts 6 moles of Ethomeen T 12 and 124 parts 2 moles of boric acid is blownwith nitrogen at 100 220 C, with stirring, as water is removed by distillation. The mixture is cooled to140 C and filtered, using a filter aid material. The filtrate is the desired composition containing 3.65 nitrogen and 1.04 boron. A mixture of 2100 parts 6 moles of Ethomeen T 12 and 124 parts 2 moles of boric acid is heatedto 100 C with stirring. The reaction vessel is then gradually evacuated as water is removed by distillationover 2 1 2 hours. The final temperature and pressure is 170 C and 2 10 A mixture of 1053 parts 3 moles of ETHOMEEN 0 12 and 62 parts 1 mole of boric acid is blown withnitrogen and heated to 180 C with stirring, as water is removed by distillation. The mixture is filteredthrough a filter aid material. The filtrate is the desired product containing 3.81 nitrogen and 0.98 boron. Following substantially the procedure of Example 2, a product is prepared from 2,138 parts 7.5 moles of ETHOMEEN C 12 and 155 parts 2.5 moles of boric acid. It contains 4.62 nitrogen and 1.35 boron. A product is prepared by the reaction of 1,269 parts 3 moles of ETHOMEEN C 15 with 62 parts 1mole of boric acid, using the procedure of Example 2 but with a maximum reaction temperature of about130 C. It contains 3.21 nitrogen and 0.68 boron. A product is prepared from 1,476 parts 3 moles of ETHOMEEN S 15 and 62 parts 1 mole of boricacid, using the procedure of Example 2 but with a maximum reaction temperature of 160 C. It contains2.5 nitrogen and 0.73 boron. A product is prepared from 1,057.5 parts 1.5 moles of ETHOMEEN S 20 and 31 parts 0.5 mole ofboric acid, using the procedure of Example 2, but with a maximum reaction temperature of 160 C. Itcontains 0.96 nitrogen and 0.50 boron. A product is prepared from 1,392 parts 1.5 moles of ETHOMEEN S 25 and 31 parts 0.5 mole of boricacid by the procedure of Example 2. It contains 1.55 nitrogen and 0.40 boron. A mixture of 2.430 parts 9 moles of ETHODUOMEEN T 13, 186 parts 3 moles of boric acid and 400parts of xylene is heated under reflux, with nitrogen blowing, as water is removed by distillation. When waterremoval is complete, the mixture is vacuum stripped to remove volatiles it is then diluted with mineral oiland filtered. The filtrate is an oil solution of the desired boron containing composition. A mixture of 2100 parts 6 moles of ETHOMEEN T 12 and 124 parts 2 moles of boric acid, is blownwith nitrogen at 100 230 C, with stirring, while the water formed is removed. After cooling, 550 parts 2moles of oleic acid is added and the mixture heated to 240 C with stirring and nitrogen blowing to removewater. The material is cooled and filtered to give a product containing 0.82 boron and 3.1 nitrogen. One thousand eight hundred and twenty one 1821 parts 3 moles of the monooleyl ester ofETHOMEEN T 12 is reacted with 62 parts 1 mole of boric acid at 230 C while nitrogen blowing. Afterremoving the water of condensation and filtering through filter aid, the final product is obtained. A mixture of 2106 parts 3 moles of ETHOMEEN T 12, 96 parts of sulfur 3 moles and a small amountof tributylamine catalyst 0.03 mole is heated to 180 C for several hours. The resulting sulfurized productis cooled and 62 parts 1 mole of boric acid is added. After heating to 200 C and removing the waterformed by nitrogen blowing, the product is filtered through filter aid to give a boron, nitrogen and sulfur containingproduct. The following examples, i.e. Examples 14 29, are representative of lubricating compositions of thisinvention containing a major amount of a lubricating oil and a minor amount of organo borate additivecompositions defined hereinabove. A lubricating oil composition is prepared by blending 5 of the product prepared in Example 2 with95 of a solvent refined 100 neutral oil base. A lubricating oil composition is prepared by blending 90.5 by weight of an SAE80W base oilcomprising a mixture of solvent refined 510 neutral oil and solvent refined 210 neutral oil present in a ratioof 2 to 1 by volume with the following additives A mineral oil based lubricating composition is prepared employing the organo borate compound fromExample 2 by blending together the following materials A series of lubricating oil compositions is prepared by blending together an SAE10W30 mineral oil.various other additives and various organo borate compounds of this invention. All pertinent data are setforth below. A mineral oil based tractor lubricating composition was prepared by blending together a mineral oilbase oil, a silicone antifoamant, dispersant type VI improver, a multipurpose additive for tractorhydraulic transmission wet brake fluids and the product from Example 2 All pertinent data are set forthbelow A series of lubricating compositions is prepared by blending together a base oil, oil additives and anorgano borate compound of this invention. All pertinent data relating to these lubricating compositions is setforth immediately below. Such compositions exhibit improved axle efficiency characteristics. A rapid means for evaluating the anti wear extreme pressure characteristics of lubricating fluids intendedfor use as industrial cutting oils is to subject such oils to a tapping test. This test consists of tapping 60accurately drilled pilot holes in a 9.5 mm 3 8 inch thick SAE 1020 hot rolled steel bar using five separate 1 4 20NC test taps. Thirty of these holes are tapped using a reference fluid six holes per tap and theremaining thirty holes are tapped using the lubricant to be tested. The torque developed during the tappingof each of the sixty holes is measured and from these measurements, the tapping efficiency averagereference fluid torque reading divided by the average test fluid torque reading 100 for the test fluid iscalculated. When the lubricating oil composition of Example 14 is tested in the above manner andcompared against a reference fluid the base oil plus additives of the composition of Example 14 less theorgano borate compound of Example 2 a 2 percent improvement in tapping efficiency is obtained. In order to demonstrate the anti chatter characteristics of the lubricating compositions of the presentinvention in limited slip differentials, the following test is conducted. To the rear axle of a motor vehicle equipped with a limited slip differential is added a referencelubricating composition comprising the base oil plus supplemental additives of the composition of Example15 less the organoborate additive of Example 2. In order to provide for differential action while the car isoperated on a road simulator at a speed of 88 km.hr The lubricating composition of Example 16 is subjected to a high torque axle test to determine the anti wearand load carrying characteristics of this lubricant. In this test, the test lubricant is added to a hypoidrear axle on a 3 4 tonne ton army truck driven by a six cylinder, 3854 cm The lubricants from Examples 17 to 20 are tested for their friction modifying characteristics employing amotored engine frictional horsepower test. In this test, either a 3.8 litre, 6 cylinder Buick engine or a 2.3 litre,4 cylinder Ford Pinto engine is motored by a motoring absorbing dynamometer. The engine coolant and oiltemperatures are maintained at controlled levels approximately 85 C and 104 C respectively . The testprocedure involves first flushing the engine with the test lubricant, draining the engine and adding a newcharge of this sample. The engines are then motored at 1400 and 1200 rpm respectively until coolant andlubricant temperatures reach desired levels see above . The engine speeds are then reduced to 600 and400 rpm respectively and the torque measured. Subsequent torque readings are taken at 400 rpm intervalsup to 2600 and 2800 rpm respectively. The engine friction horsepower is calculated from the engine rpmand recorded torque values at each speed in accordance with the following equation Testing of Examples 17 and 20 was carried out in the Buick engine whereas testing of Examples 18 and19 was carried out in the Pinto engine. The mineral oil based tractor lubricating composition of Example 21 is evaluated in a tractor brakechatter test to determine its frictional characteristics in providing smooth operation of the wet brakes. Thetest consists of conducting a series of brake applications at various axle speeds 5 20 rpm and brakeapplication pressures 3.5 13.8 MPa 500 2000 psi . An oscillographic record is made of the brake torquerequired during each brake application to achieve a specific retarding force. When Example 21 is tested inthis manner, it provides a 58 percent reduction in torque requirements i.e. 9311 N.m with no chatter ascompared to a reference fluid the composition of Example 21 less the organo borate compound ofExample 2 requiring 22,000 N.m of torque at which time brake chatter occurs.