# REGIO AND OPTICAL ISOMERS OF IMIDAZOLINYL TOLUIC ACIDS, ESTERS AND SALTS, THEIR METHOD OF PREPARATION AND THEIR USE AS HERBICIDAL AGENTS

## Claims
Verbindung, ausgewählt aus der Gruppe bestehend aus Methyl 2 4 isopropyl 4 methyl 5 oxo 2 imidazolin 2 yl

## Description
The present invention relates to imidazolinyl toluic acids, esters and salts represented below by formula I . More precisely, the invention relates to the dextrorotatory optical isomers of the wherein R is hydrogen, methyl, a salt forming cation of an alkali metal, ammonium or aliphatic ammonium, and the aromatic methyl group is The invention also relates to a heretofor unavailable method for the preparation of essentially pure individual formula I regio and or optical isomers of imidazolinyl toluates. The invention further relates to a method for selectively and more efficiently controlling undesirable plant species with the various regio and optical isomers of said imidazolinyl toluates, said method comprising, applying to the foliage of the undesirable plant species or to the soil containing seeds, seedlings or propagating organs of the undesirable plant species, a herbicidally effective amount of the appropriate regio and or optical isomer of said formula I imidazolinyl toluate. The preferred formula I compound is the optical isomer, and the Although certain regio and optical isomeric mixtures of herbicidal imidazolinyl benzoates are described in U.S. Patent No. 4,188,487, issued February 12, 1980, this reference fails to disclose a practical method for preparing each of the regio and optical isomers of said toluic acids. Also, the reference does not recognize the varying herbicidal selectivity and effectiveness of the individual regio and optical isomers of the formula I toluic acids, esters and salts. The regioisomer mixtures of U. S. Patent 4,188,487 are obtained during preparation. For instance, if aromatic substitutions are present, cyclization of the phthalimidocarboxamide gives rise to a 50 50 mixture of both imidazoisoindolediones because cyclization may occur at either imide carbonyl group see Figure I below . This mixture is not easily separated and in order to give rise to the mixture of imidazolyl toluates, it must be reacted directly with methanol and sodium methoxide as described in U. S. Patent No. 4,188,487. As such, there is no practical method for the isolation of both the pure It is an object of the present invention therefore to provide satisfactory methods for preparing each of the essentially pure regio and optical isomers of the formula I compounds. Further, it is an object of this invention to provide such compounds having superior herbicidal activity as well as a spectrum of herbicidal activity selectivity . The present invention provides a compound selected from the group consisting of It has been found that the individual The Comparison of the individual optical isomers of the regio isomer mixture The Although the racemic or isomer of the It should also be understood that the imidazolinyl toluates represented by formula I above may be tautomeric. While, for convenience, they are depicted by a single structure identified as formula I , they may exist in either of the tautomeric forms illustrated in Figure 3 As such, both tautomeric forms of the imidazolinyl toluates are included under the formula I definition. These compounds are amphoteric. They will dissolve in both acidic and basic aqueous solutions, and when treated with strong acids, particularly strong mineral acids such as hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid or hydrobromic acid, they will form the acid addition salts of the imidazolinyl toluates. The compounds of this invention are highly effective herbicidal agents useful for the control of both monocotyledonous, sedge cyperacious and dicotyledonous plants. They may be employed for the post emergence control of undesirable plant species by applying a herbicidally effective amount thereof to the foliage of the plants, or they may be used for the pre emergence control of the undesirable plants by applying a herbicidally effective amount of the active compound to soil containing seeds, seedlings or propagating organs of the undesirable plants. Since the imidazolinyl toluates I of the present invention exhibit very limited solubility in water, they are generally formulated as wettable powders, emulsifiable concentrates or flowable liquids which are usually dispersed in water or other inexpensive liquid diluent for application as a liquid spray. The compounds of the invention may also be prepared as granular formulations containing generally about 10 to 15 by weight of toxicant. Typically, a wettable powder can be prepared by grinding together about 25 to 80 by weight of the imidazolinyl toluate, about 2 to 5 by weight of a surfactant such as sodium N methyl N oleoyl taurate, alkyl phenoxy polyoxyethylene ethanol, or sodium alkyl naphthalene sulfonate, about 5 to 10 by weight of a dispersing agent such as a highly purified sodium lignosulfonate, and 25 to 63 by weight of a finely divided carrier such as kaolin, attapulgite, diatomaceous earth or the like. A typical formulation prepared in accordance with the above description is as follows Flowable liquid formulations can be prepared by grinding together about 40 to 60 by weight of formula I imidazolinyl toluate, about 2 to 3 by weight of the sodium salt of condensed naphthalene sulfonic acid, about 2 to 3 by weight of a gelling clay, about 2 by weight of propylene glycol and about 54 to 32 by weight of water. A typical granular formulation can be prepared by dissolving or dispersing the active compound in a solvent and applying the toxicant to a sorptive or non sorptive carrier such as attapulgite, corncob grits, pumice, talc or the like. As indicated above, the imidazolinyl compounds, depicted by formula I are effective preemergence herbicides. They are highly effective for the control of broadleaf weeds and grass plants when applied at a rate of from about 0.10 kg per hectare to 11.2 kg per hectare to soil containing seeds, seedlings or propagating organs of the broadleaf weeds, sedges or grass plants. The compounds of the invention are also effective for the control of broadleaf weeds, sedges, and grass plants when applied at the rate of from about 0.28 kg per hectare to 11.2 kg per hectare to the foliage of the plants. While the compounds of this invention are very effective for controlling a wide variety of plant species, they are unique among herbicides in their ability to control certain cyperacieous plants, particularly sedges, at relatively low rates of application. In practice, the formula I compounds have been found to be most effective as sedge control agents when applied as a preemergence application at rates of from 0.14 kg per hectare to 11.2 kg per hectare. It is of course, recognized that higher rates of application of the formula I compounds can be used for sedge and other perennial plant control when infestations of the cyperacae or perennial plants are especially heavy. Under such conditions, the formula I imidazolinyl benzoates may be applied, preemergence or postemergence, at rates as high as 25 kg per hectare. Among the cyperacae which can be controlled with the imidazolinyl benzoates of this invention are purple nutsedge This invention is further illustrated by the following examples To an ice cooled solution of 80 g 0.53 mol , tartaric acid in 200 ml water is added 56 g 0.50 mol , of 2 amino 2,3 dimethylbutyronitrile. During the addition, the mixture is kept cold. The precipitate is collected by filtration, washed with a little ice cold water and air dried to give 65.25 g of the tartrate salt of 2 amino 2,3 dimethylbutyronitrile. The filtrate isolated from the tartrate salt is treated with 56 ml concentrated ammonia and extracted three times with ether. The combined extracts are washed with brine, dried and concentrated to give 24 g 2 amino 2,3 dimethylbutyronitrile with α 25 D 4.49 C 0.0376 g ml THF . The aminonitrile is converted again to the salt with 39 g tartaric acid in 54 ml water, the salt collected, and the aminonitrile liberated from the salt with 26 ml concentrated ammonium hydroxide as described above. This process gives 19.3 g of 2 amino 2,3 dimethylbutyronitrile with α 25 D 5.89 C 0.0353 g ml THF . Two further cycles of salt preparation and liberation of the amino nitrile with ammonia give 11.8 g of 2 amino 2,3 dimethylbutyronitrile with α 25 D 7.31 C 0.0368 g ml THF . When salt derived from tartaric acid and 2 amino 2,3 dimethylbutyronitrile is put through the same sequence of liberation and salt formation with tartaric acid two times, the 2 amino 2,3 dimethylbutyronitrile obtained has α 25 D 6.93 C 0.085 g ml THF . Concentrated sulfuric acid 29.7 ml is cooled with stirring in an ice acetone cooling bath. To the acid is added 11.8 g 011 mol 2 amino 2,3 dimethylbutyronitrile with α 25 D 7.31 C 0.0368 g ml THF at such a rate that the temperature does not go above 25 C. After the addition, the temperature of the reaction mixture is slowly raised to 100 C and held at that temperature for one hour. After cooling the mixture in an ice acetone bath, 85 ml concentrated ammonia is added at such a rate that the temperature does not exceed 25 C. The mixture is extracted five times with methylene chloride, the combined extracts dried and concentrated, giving 11.95 g of white solid, mp 79 C 81 C and α 25 D 57.43 C 0.0213 g ml THF . This solid is recrystallized from methylene chloride hexane to give 11.2 g of 2 amino 2,3 dimethylbutyramide, mp 81 C 82 C and α 25 D 59.38 C 0.0162 g ml THF . In a similar way, hydrolysis of the 2 amino 2,3 dimethylbutyronitrile with sulfuric acid yields the 2 amino 2,3 dimethylbutyramide, mp 81 C 82 C, α 25 D 57.14 C 0.0654 g ml THF . Hydrolysis of the 2 amino 2,3 dimethylbutyronitrile with sulfuric acid yields 2 amino 2,3 dimethylbutyramide, mp 74.5 C 76 C. To a solution containing 15 g 0.12 mol of 2,3 dimethylbutyramide in 150 ml dry THF under nitrogen is added 18.7 g 0.12 mol 4 methylphthalic anhydride. The mixture is then stirred at room temperature overnight. Thin layer chromatographic analysis indicates complete reaction. The mixture is concentrated to give the product, a mixture of the 4 and 5 methylphthalamic acids, as a glass which is characterized by its NMR spectrum and used without further purification. This crude product has a negative rotation. The crude product mixture from Example 3, 35.07 g is dissolved in 23.8 ml of 50 aqueous sodium hydroxide and warmed at 85 C for two hours. After cooling to 0 C, the pH of the solution is adjusted to pH 3 with 6N H₂SO₄. The mixture is extracted with methylene chloride, the extract dried and concentrated to give the crude product 34.06 g as a glass with IR and NMR spectra consistent with that expected for the product. This same mixture of 6 4 isopropyl 4 methyl 5 oxo 2 imidazolin 2 yl To 1.7 g 6.2 mmol of this same mixture in 50 ml absolute methanol is added 0.8 ml 8.6 mmol isopropylamine. After stirring at room temperature overnight, the mixture is concentrated Other ammonium salts can be prepared in a similar fashion. The inorganic salts are prepared by reacting the organic acid with one equivalent of an alkali metal hydroxide, oxide or carbonate in aqueous methanol and removing the solvent to give the desired salt which is purified by conventional means. To 24.8 g 0.12 mol dicyclohexylcarbodiimide in 200 ml dry CH₂Cl₂ is added the crude acid prepared in Example 4. The reaction is exothermic. After stirring at room temperature for two hours, the mixture is filtered and the filtrate concentrated. The residue is dissolved in 200 ml methanol, and 0.5 g sodium methoxide is added. The mixture is stirred overnight followed by heating at reflux for one hour. Enough acetic acid is then added to the solution to indicate a pH of 4 as measured by moist pH paper. The mixture is concentrated, the residue dissolved in CH₂Cl₂ and the solution washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution. The organic phase is then washed with saturated brine, dried and concentrated to give 34 g crude product. Chromatography of this material on silica gel using 1 1 ether hexane followed by ether as eluent gives the pure product which is crystallized from ether hexane, mp 115 C 121.5 C, α 25 D 0.55 C 0.1254 g ml THF . Analysis of this product by HPLC shows it to be a 54 46 mixture of methyl 2 4 isopropyl 4 methyl 5 oxo 2 imidazolin 2 yl To a solution containing 26 g 0.20 mol , 2 amino 2,3 dimethylbutyramide and 30.7 ml trimethylamine in 200 ml dry tetrahydrofuran at 0 c is added dropwise 26.4 ml 0.20 mol A suspension of sodium hydride 19.56 g of a 50 suspension in mineral oil 0.40 mol in 200 ml toluene is heated at reflux under a Dean Stark water separator. The N 1 carbamoyl 1,2 dimethylpropyl When the reaction is carried out on the product from 2 amino 2,3 dimethylbutyramide, there is obtained 4 isopropyl 4 methyl 2 A stirred solution containing 20 g 0.087 mol of 4 isopropyl 4 methyl 2 The pure The mixture of acids 21.24 g prepared as described in Example 8 and derived from the amino amide dissolved in 100 ml methylene chloride is added dropwise to a stirred solution cooled to 0 C and containing 15.97 g 0.078 mol dicyclohexylcarbodiimide. After the addition, the mixture is stirred at room temperature overnight. The mixture is filtered and 2 ml glacial acetic acid added to the filtrate. The filtrate is concentrated To a stirred solution containing 10.0 g 0.077 mol of 2 amino 2,3 dimethylbutyramide and 12 ml triethylamine in 125 ml acetone is added, dropwise, 11.9 g 0.077 mol When the reaction is repeated using the 2 amino 2,3 dimethylbutyramide rather than the 2 amino 2,3 dimethylbutyramide, the corresponding N 1 carbamoyl 1,2 dimethylpropyl To 125 ml dry toluene is added 2.7 g 0.056 mol , of a 50 suspension of sodium hydride in mineral oil. The mixture is stirred, heated under reflux, and 7.0 g 0.028 mol , of N 1 carbamoyl 1,2 dimethylpropyl When the reaction is carried out on N 1 carbamoyl 1,2 dimethylpropyl To a stirred solution containing 15.1 g 0.065 mol , of 5 isopropyl 5 methyl 2 When the above reaction is carried out with 4 isopropyl 4 methyl 2 To an ice cold solution containing 23.97 g 0.087 mol , of the acid in 200 ml methylene chloride is added a slight excess of etherial diazomethane. The excess diazomethane is destroyed with acetic acid and the mixture concentrated The postemergence herbicidal activity and selectivity of the compounds of the invention is demonstrated by the following experiments Seeds of the test species are planted in the upper 1.25 cm of soil loamy sand contained in either 6.35 cm² plastic pots or 100 cm² fiber pots. For the tests, the plants are allowed to grow in the greenhouse for two to three weeks before treatment. After treatment, the plants are returned to the greenhouse for an additional six to eight weeks, at which time the herbicidal activity is evaluated. All herbicide applications are made with a belt sprayer set to deliver 374 l ha. The compounds are suspended in 80 20 acetone H₂O which contains a non ionic surfactant for post application. All treatments are replicated two to five times. Results of the herbicide evaluation are expressed on a rating scale of zero to nine. Based on this scale, a rating 8 is considered a control rating for weed species, while a safe rating on a crop is 2. The results of these tests are summarized in Table I. As can be seen, the optical isomers of the imidazolinyl toluate exhibit superior herbicidal activity on weeds while remaining soft on crop species. The para imidazolinyl toluates racemic mixture exhibited the broadest herbicidal activity, with the racemic mixture having an average control rate of 1.6 kg ha, with the pure optical isomer having an average control rate of 0.5 kg ha. The postemergence herbicidal activity of the compounds of the invention is demonstrated by the following tests, wherein a variety of monocotyledonous, cyperaceous and dicotyledonous plants are treated with test compounds dispersed in aqueous acetone mixtures. In the tests, seedling plants are grown in separate cups for 50 50 acetone water mixtures containing 0.5 TWEEN 20, a polyoxyethylene sorbitan monolaurate surfactant of Atlas Chemical Industries, in sufficient quantity to provide the equivalent of about 0.07 kg to 11.2 kg per hectare of active compound when applied to the plants through a spray nozzle operating at 2.8 kg Cu² pressure for a predetermined time. After spraying, the plants are placed on greenhouse benches and are cared for in the usual manner, commensurate with conventional greenhouse practices. Two weeks after treatment, the seedling plants, with the exception of wild oats, which are rated at five weeks, are examined and rated according to the rating system provided below. The data obtained are reported in Table II below, which contains averaged data from several tests. The preemergence herbicidal activity of the compounds of the present invention is exemplified by the following tests in which the seeds or propagating organs of a variety of monocotyledonous, cyperaccous and dicotyledonous plants are separately mixed with potting soil and planted on top of approximately 25 cu of soil in separate size cups. After planting, the cups are sprayed with the selected aqueous acetone solution containing test compounds in sufficient quantity to provide the equivalent of about 0.28 kg to 11.2 kg per hectare of test compound per cup. The treated cups are then placed on greenhouse benches, watered and cared for in accordance with conventional greenhouse procedures. Three or four weeks after treatment, the test are terminated and each cup is examined and rated according to the rating system set forth in Example 6. The herbicidal proficiency of the active ingredient of the present invention is evident from the test results which are reported in Table III below.