# Videotex decoder apparatus.

## Abstract
A videotex decoder apparatus which, in various aspects, displays a status line to indicate when connect charges are occurring overlays menus over displayed videotex frames with portions of the displayed frames remaining visible provides easily called log on procedures retrieves remote information frames by user specified keyword names prints information frames in selectable different overall sizes provides selectable different character sets for display is table driven and uses an added frame header on stored frames to indicate the videotex protocol for decoding the frames.

## Claims
Claims 1. Apparatus for locally decoding and displaying frames of digital information received from a central supplier 20, 24 , expencially from a videotex supplier, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by a port 13 connectable to the central supplier 20, 24 for receiving at least one of the information frames from the central supplier 20, 24 , a display device 36 for locally displaying at least one of the information frames received from the central supplier 20, 24 , a storage device 42 for locally storing, after it has been displayed, as a stored frame for later redisplay, at least one of the information frames received from the central supplier 20, 24 , and a processor 30, 32, 34 connected to be responsive to the port 13 and the storage device 42 and comprising display means 36 for displaying, while the port 13 is connected to the central supplier 20, 24 , an indication that the port 13 is connected. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the means 36 for displaying is further arranged to display an indication of the expense entailed in the connection. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 or 2, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the means 36 for displaying is further arranged to display the time which has elapsed during the period since the port 13 was most recently connected. 4. The apparatus of claim 2 or 3, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the indication of expense is displayed on the display device 36 simultaneously while an information frame is being displayed. 5. The apparatus of any of claima 1 to 4, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the processor 30, 32, 34 further comprises means 30, 34 for enabling the user to selectively either display or not display the indication that the port 13 is connected. 6. The apparatus of any of claims 1 to 5, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the means 36 for displaying is further arranged to display an indication of whether the information frame being displayed is a stored frame from the storage device 42 . 7. The apparatus of claim 6 c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the processor 30, 32, 34 further comprises means 30, 34 for enabling the user to selectively either display or not display the indication of whether the information frame being displayed is a stored frame from the storage device 42 . 8. The apparatus of any of claims 1 to 7, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the means 36 for displaying is further arranged to display, while the port 13 is unconnected to the central supplier 20, 24 , an indication that the port 13 is unconnected. 9. The apparatus of any of claims I to 8 further comprising a data entry device 40 for enabling the entry of data into the apparatus, the data including commands representing actions to be taken with respect to the information frames, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the processor 30, 32, 34 further comprises means 30, 34, 37 for delivering to the display device 36 at least one menu frame for visually indicating possible actions which may be taken with respect to the information frames, including the actions of switching back and forth between displaying the information frames, as they are received from the supplier 20, 24 , and displaying stored frames from the storage device 42 , and means 30 responsive to the data entry device 40 for accepting and executing entered commands corresponding to the possible actions. 10. Apparatus for locally decoding and displaying frames of digital information received from a videotex supplier 20, 24 , c h a r a c t e r i z e d by a port 13 connectable to the central supplier 20, 24 for receiving at least one of the information frames from the supplier 20, 24 , a display device 36 for displaying at least one of the information frames received from the supplier 20, 24 , and a processor 30, 32, 34 comprising means 34, 37 for delivering to the display device 36 at least one menu frame for visually indicating possible actions which may be taken while an information frame received from the supplier 20, 24 is being displayed on the display device 36 , and means 30, 32, 34, 37 for visually overlaying the menu frame over the displayed information frame so that at least a portion of the displayed information frame is displayed simultaneously with the menu frame. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the processor 30, 32, 34 further comprises a data entry device 40 for enabling the entry of data into the apparatus, including commands to cause the processor 30, 32, 34 to selectively either overlay the menu over the displayed frame, or to display the menu without any under lying display of any portion of the previously displayed information frame. 12. The apparatus of claim 10 or 11, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the possible actions include actions to be taken with respect to the underlying information frame. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that one action is the storage of the underlying displayed information frame. 14. Apparatus for obtaining access via a switched communications network 18 to a central supplier 20, 24 , especially a videotex supplier, of frames of digital information for obtaining said frames to be decoded and visually displayed locally, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by means 13, 14, 16 for delivering to the central supplier 20, 24 via the network stored coded information required by the central supplier 20, 24 as a condition to allowing access to the central supplier 20, 24 , a display device 36 for displaying the frames of digital information, a data entry device 40 for enabling the entry of data into the apparatus, including commands, and a processor 30, 32, 34 comprising menu means 30, 34, 37 for sending to the display device 36 a menu frame identifying the central supplier 20, 24 as being accessible, and log on means 30, 34, 37, 32 responsive to the data entry device 40 for accepting and executing an entered command to obtain access to the supplier 20, 24 , by triggering the means 13 for delivering to send the coded information. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the coded information delivered to the supplier 20, 24 includes a subscriber identifier. 16. The apparatus of claim 14 or 15, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by means 42 for holding protocol information about a protocol specified by the supplier 20, 24 and governing the information frames of the supplier 20, 24 . 17. The apparatus of claim 16, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that each information frame comprises a collection of multiple bit bytes and the means 42 for holding is arranged to hold protocol information which includes the number of bits in each byte. 18. The apparatus of claim 16, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the means 42 for holding is arranged to hold protocol information which includes a table of commands each associated with an instruction specified by the supplier 20, 24 for retrieving information frames from the supplier 20, 24 , each command corresponding to a key on the data entry device 40 , and in that the processor 30, 32, 34 further includes means 30 responsive to the data entry device 40 for sending to the supplier 20, 24 in response to the pressing of a key, the instruction associated with the command corresponding to the pressed key. 19. The apparatus of any of claims 16 to 18, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the specified instructions include instructions to retrieve the prior information frame, to repeat the presently retrieved information frame, to log off and to go to the home frame. 20. The apparatus of claim 14, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the means 13, 14, 16 for delivering coded information includes the information for a plurality of central suppliers 20, 24 each requiring its own coded information. 21. The apparatus of claim 14 or 20, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the processor 30, 32, 34 further comprises means 30 for specifying and updating, by data entered through the data entry device 40 , the coded information to be delivered to the supplier 20, 24 when access to the supplier is commanded. 22. The apparatus of any of claims 16 to 21, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the processor 30, 32, 34 further comprises means 30 for specifying and updating the protocol information held in the means for holding. 23. The apparatus of claim 21, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the menu sent by the menu means 30, 34, 37 identifies at least a plurality of the suppliers 20, 24 , and the log on means 30, 34, 37, 32 is responsive to the data entry device 40 for accepting and executing an entered command to obtain access to one of the suppliers 20, 24 by triggering the means 13 for delivering to send to that one supplier 20, 24 the coded information required by it. 24. Apparatus for retrieving and decoding selected frames of information from a central videotex supplier 20, 24 of such information frames, each information frame having an associated unique identifier assigned by the supplier 20, 24 for retrieving the frame, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by a display device 36 for displaying the information frames, storage means 42 for storing the identifier and a unique keyword selected by the operator and associated with the identifier, menu means 30, 34, 37 for displaying on the display device 36 a menu frame containing the keyword, data entry means 40 for entering into the apparatus a request for the retrieval of a selected information frame by moving a cursor 43 to the keyword associated with the selected information frame, and a processor 30, 32, 34 responsive to the data entry means 40 for retrieving the information frame in response to the entry of the request by transmitting the associated identifier to the supplier 20, 24 . 25. The apparatus of claim 24, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the data entry means 40 is further arranged for entering the request by typing in the keyword. 26. The apparatus of claim 24 or 25, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the processor 30, 32, 34 comprises means 30 for enabling specification and updating of the keywords appearing on the menu frame and the identifier associated with each keyword by commands entered through the data entry device 40 . 27. Apparatus for locally storing and decoding frames of digital information received from a central videotex supplier 20, 24 , c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that a port 13 connectable to the central supplier 20, 24 for receiving at least one of the information frames from the central videotex supplier 20, 24 , a display device 36 for locally displaying at least one of the information frames received from the central videotex supplier 20, 24 , a storage device 42 for locally storing, after it has been displayed, as a stored frame for later redisplay, at least one of the information frames received from the central supplier 20, 24 , a data entry device 40 for enabling the entry of data into the apparatus, and a processor 30, 32, 34 comprising means 30 for accepting from the data entry device 40 a name specified by the subscriber to be associated with a particular displayed information frame, means 30 for storing the particular information frame in the storage device 42 together with the associated name, and means 30, 32, 34, 37 for retrieving the particular information frame from the storage device 42 in response to entry through the data entry device 40 of a command corresponding to the name specified for that frame. 28. The apparatus of claim 27, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the processor 30, 32, 34 further comprises means 30 for grouping information frames into directories, and means 30 for accepting from the date entry device 40 commands designating the directory in which a particular displayed frame is to be stored. 29. The apparatus of claim 27, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that for a plurality of central videotex suppliers 20, 24 the processor 30, 32, 34 further comprises means 30 for accepting from the data entry device 40 commands for storing in a single directory frames received from different suppliers 20, 24 . 30. The apparatus of claim 28, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the processor 30, 32, 34 further comprises means 37 for displaying on the display device 36 a menu listing by name the information frames stored in a given directory, and means 30 for accepting from the data entry device 40 a command corresponding to the name of an information frame included in the menu for retrieval from the directory. 31. The apparatus of claim 30, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the command is entered by steps which include moving a cursor 43 to the name of the information frame on the menu. 32. The apparatus of claim 30, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the command is entered by steps which include typing the name of the information frame on the data entry device 40 . 33. Apparatus for decoding and printing frames of digital information received from a central videotex supplier 20, 24 c h a r a c t e r i z e d by a port 13 connectable to the central supplier 20, 24 for receiving at least one of the information frames from the central supplier 20, 24 , a printing device 38 for locally printing at least one of the information frames received from the central supplier 20, 24 and, a processor 30, 32, 34 comprising means 34 for delivering to the printer 38 digital information corresponding to an information frame to be printed, and means 34 for configuring the digital information to cause the printed information frame to be of a selectable overall size. 34. The apparatus of claim 33, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that it comprises a data entry device 40 for enabling the entry of data into the apparatus, and in that the processor 30, 32, 34 further comprises means 30 for accepting from the data entry device 40 commands corresponding to the different selectable overall sizes. 35. Apparatus for processing and decoding frames of information received from a central videotex supplier 20, 24 , different information frames comprising characters intended to be displayed by means of different characters sets, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by a port 13 connectable to the videotex supplier 20, 24 for receiving the information frames, a display device 36 for displaying the received in formation frames, a storage device 42 for storing character font information corresponding to the different characters sets, a data entry device 40 for entering data into the apparatus, and a processor 30, 32, 34 comprising means 30 for accepting from the data entry device 40 commands each corresponding the display of in formation frames according to one of the different character sets, and means 30, 32 for executing a command by reference to the stored font information corresponding to the character set specified by that command. 36. The apparatus of claim 35, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the character sets include an English character set and aGerman character set. 37. Apparatus for locally decoding a stream of bytes representing a frame of information received from a videotex supplier 20, 24 , c h a r a c t e r i z e d by means 30 for receiving each byte in turn for decoding, means 42 for storing a table of entries each indicating what action is to be performed with respect to each byte based on the identity of the byte and on the current state of the decoder, and means 32 for decoding each byte by finding the entry in the table corresponding to the action to be performed and thereafter performing that action. 38. The apparatus of claim 37, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by means 30 for updating the current state of the decoder, after each byte is decoded, in accordance with the current state and the identity of the decoded byte. 39. Apparatus for locally processing and decoding frames of information received from central videotex suppliers 20, 24 , different frames being encoded in accordance with different protocols, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by means 42 for locally storing the information frames, means 36 for locally displaying the frames, means 32 for decoding the locally stored frames before they are displayed, and means 30 for tagging each stored frame with a header indicating the protocol used for encoding the frame, the means 32 for decoding being arranged to decode each frame in accordance with the protocol indicated by the header of the frame.

## Description
Videotex decoder apparatus This invention relates to videotex systems more particularly to an videotex decoder apparatus. In typical videotex systems, textual and graphic information from a variety of sources such as newspapers, retailers, or banks is made available by a videotex supplier to a large number of subscribers via interactive two way communication over the switched telephone network. The videotex supplier electronically stores the information supplied by the different sources in the form of hundreds of thounsands of pages frames each representing a collection arranged, for example, in rows and columns of alphanumeric and graphic characters to be displayed on a cathode ray tube CRT at the subscriber s location. Each frame is sent to the subscriber as a stream of encoded bytes.Some of the bytes identify the particular characters to be displayed. Other bytes are essentially instructions about the attributes of the displayed frame, for example, the size of a particular character or the background color for a particular line of characters. The characters and attribute information are translated into the encoded bytes in accordance with a set of rules protocol established by each supplier. In addition to a CRT, each subscriber has a decoder for converting the received encoded bytes back to the displayable alphanumeric or graphic characters and attribute instructions, and a keyboard with which the subscriber can tell the videotex supplier what frames to send to the subscriber.and can respond to questions posed in particular frames Different videotex protocols have been developed in different countries. for example Prestel in the United Kingdom,Telidon in Canada. and NAPLPS in the United States. A description of the Prestel system is set forth in Hudson, Prestel The Basis of an Evolving Videotex System , BYTE,July, 1983. p. 61 . and in Prestel Terminal Specification1, updated through 8 1 83, available from Prestel Headquarters,Prestel 435. Telephone House. Temple Avenue. London EC4Y OHL, England. both incorporated herein by reference. Some videotex decoders allow the subscriber to switch between vieving frames being supplied over the telephone line and frames which have been stored locally. Frames explaining to the subscriber how to proceed may also be displayed.To comply with the requirements and to enable easier handling the invention, as defined in the appendent claims provides in one aspect, apparatus for locally displaying frames of digital information received from a central supplier, including a port connectable to the central supplier for receiving at least one of the information frames from the central supplier, a display device for locally displaying at least one of the information frames received from the central supplier, a storage device for locally storing, after it has been displayed, as a stored frame for later redisplay, at least one of the information frames received from the central supplier, coin6 a pcoc uss1o oSne1cted to be responsive to the port and the storage device and comprising means for displaying, while the port is connected to the central supplier. an indication that the port is connected. ln preferred embodiments. the means for displaying is further arranged to display an indication of the expense entailed in the connection. in particular. the time which has elapsed during the period since the port was most recently connected the indication of expense is displayed on the display device simultaneously while an information frame is being displayed the processor also includes means for enabling the user to selectively either display or not display the indication that the port is connected the means for displaying is further arranged to displaywan indication of whether the information frame being displayed is a stored frame from the storage device the processor further includes means for enabling the user to selectively either display or not display the indication of whether the information frame being displayed is a stored frame from the storage device the means for displaying is further arranged to display, while the port is unconnected to the central supplier. an indication that the port is unconnected and the apparatus includes a data entry device for enabling the entry of data into the apparatus, the data including commands representing actions to be taken with respect to the information frames. and the processor includes means for delivering to the display device at least one menu frame for visually indicating possible actions which may be taken with respect to the information frames. including the actions of switching back and forth between displaying the information frames as they are received from the supplier, and displaying stored frames from the storage device, and the processor also includes means responsive to the data entry device for accepting and executing entered commands corresponding to the possible actions. Displaying the status line i.e., the indications that the port is connected, and whether or not the displayed frame is from the local storage device reminds the user of subscriber fees and telephone tolls being incurred while connected to the videotex supplier. In another aspect. the invention features apparatus for locally displaying frames of digital information received from a videotex supplier, including a port connectable to the central supplier for receiving at least one of the information frames from the supplier. a display device for displaying at least one of the information frames received from the supplier.and a ptocessot comprising means for delivering to the display device at least one menu frame for visually indicating possible actions which may be taken while an information frame received from the supplier is being displayed on the display device, and means for visually overlaying the menu frame over the displayed information frame so that at least a port a of lie information frame is displayed simultaneously with the menu frame. In preferred embodiments, the processor includes a data entry device for enabling the entry of data into the apparatus, including commands to cause the processor to selectively either overlay the menu over the displayed frame, or to display the menu without any underlying display of any portion of the previously displayed information frame the possible actions include actions to be taken with respect to the underlying information frame and one action is the storage of the underlying displayed information frame. The overlay enables the user to observe at least part of the current frame while acting on a particular menu. In another aspect. the invention features apparatus for obtaining access via a switched communications network to a central supplier of frames of digital information for obtaining frames to be visually displayed locally. comprising means for delivering to the central supplier via the network stored coded information required by the central supplier as a condition to allowing access to the central supplier, a display device for displaying the frames of digital information, a data entry device for enabling the entry of data into the apparatus, including commands, and a processor comprising menu means for sending to the display device a menu frame identifying the central supplier as being accessible, and log on aV1 responsive to the data entry device for accepting and executing an entered command to obtain access to the supplier, by triggering the means for delivering to send the coded information. In preferred embodiments, the coded information delivered to the supplier includes a subscriber identifier means for holding protocol information about a protocol specified by the supplier and governing the information frames of the supplier each information frame comprises a collection of multiple bit bytes and the means for holding is arranged to hold protocol information which includes the number of bits in each byte the means for holding is arranged to hold protocol information which includes a table of commands each associated with an instruction specified by the supplier for retrieving information frames from the supplier. each command corresponding to a key on the data entry device. and the processor further includes means responsive to the data entry device for sending to the supplier in response to the pressing of a key, the instruction associated with the command corresponding to the pressed key the specified instructions include instructions to retrieve the prior information frame, to repeat the presently retrieved information frame, to log off, and to go to the home frame there are a plurality of central suppliers each requiring its own coded information the apparatus includes means for specifying and updating, by data entered through the data entry device, the coded information to be delivered to the supplier when access to the supplier is commanded the processor includes means for specifying and updating the protocol information held in the means for holding and the menu sent by the menu means identifies at least a plurality of the suppliers. and the log on means is responsive to the data entry device for accepting and executing an entered command to obtain access to one of the suppliers by triggering the means for delivering to send to that one supplier the coded information required by it. The user thus can easily, quickly. and accurately log on to the videotex supplier s system. In another aspect. the invention features apparatus for retrieving selected frames of information from a central videotex supplier of the information frames. each information frame having an associated unique identifier assigned by the supplier for retrieving the frame, the apparatus comprising a display device for displaying the information frames, storage means for storing the identifier and a unique keyword selected by the operator and associated with the identifier, menu means for displaying on the display device a menu frame containing the keyword, data entry means for entering into the apparatus a request for the retrieval of a selected information frame by moving a cursor to the keyword associated with the selected information frame, and a processor responsive to the data entry means for retrieving the information frame in response to the entry of the request by transmitting the associated identifier to the supplier. In preferred embodiments, the data entry means is further arranged for entering the request by typing in the keyword and the processor comprises means for enabling specification and updating of the keywords appearing on the menu frame and the identifier associated with each keyword by commands entered through the data entry device. The user can easily and quickly retrieve particular frames, e.g., a weather forecast, from the videotex supplier using an easy to remember keyword. In another aspect, the invention features apparatus for locally storing frames of digital information received from a central videotex supplier, including a port connectable to the central supplier for receiving at least one of the information frames from the central supplier. a display device for locally displaying at least one of the information frames received from the central supplier, a storage device for locally storing, atter it has been displayed, as a stored frame for later redisplay, at least one of the information frames received from the central supplier. a data entry device for enabling the entry of data into the apparatus, and a processor comprising means for accepting from the data entry device a name specified by the subscriber to be associate wiLh particular displayed information frame. means for storing the particular information frame in the storage device together with the associated name, and means for retrieving the particular information frame from the storage device in response to entry through the data entry device of a command corresponding to the name specified for that frame. In preferred embodiments, the processor also includes means for grouping information frames into directories, and means for accepting from the data entry device commands designating the directory in which a particular displayed frame is to be stored there are a plurality of central videotex suppliers and the processor further includes means for accepting from the data entry device commands for storing in a single directory frames received from different suppliers the processor also includes means for displaying on the display device a menu listing by name the information frames stored in a given directory. and means for accepting from the data entry device a command corresponding to the name of an information frame included in the menu for retrieval from the directory the command is entered by steps which include moving a cursor to the name of the information frame on the menu and the command is entered by steps which include typing the name of the information frame on the data entry device. In another aspect, the invention features apparatus for printing frames of digital information receivea from a central videotex supplier. comprising a port connectable to the central supplier for receiving at least one of the information frames from the central supplier. a printing device for locally printing at least one of the information frames received from the central supplier. and a processor comprising means for delivering to the printer digital information corresponding to an information frame to be printed. and means for configuring the digital information to cause the printed information frame to be of a selectable overall size. In preferred embodiments, there is a data entry device for enabling the entry of data into the apparatus, and the processor further comprises means for accepting from the data entry device commands corresponding to the different selectable overall sizes. The user can easily choose different overall sizes of the printout. In another aspect, the invention features apparatus for processing frames of information received from a central videotex supplier, different information frames comprising characters intended to be displayed by means of different character sets, the apparatus comprising a port connectable to the videotex supplier for receiving the information frames, a display device for displaying the received information frames.a storage device for storing character font information corresponding to the different character sets, a data entry device for entering data into the apparatus. and a processor comprising means for accepting from the data entry device commands each corresponding to the display of information frames according to one of the different character sets, and means for executing a command by reference to the stored font information corresponding to the character set specified by that command. In preferred embodiments, the character sets include an English character set and a German character set. Different language fonts thus can be handled automatically. In another aspect, the invention features apparatus for locally decoding a stream of bytes representing a frame of information received from a videotex supplier. comprising means for receiving each byte in turn for decoding. means for storing a table of entries each indicating what action is to be performed with respect to each byte based on the identity of the byte and on the current state of the decoder. and means for decoding each byte by finding the entry in the table corresponding to the action to be performed and thereafter performing that action. The table driven decoder is fast and flexible. In another aspect. the invention features means for updating the current state of the decoder. after each byte is decoded, in accordance with the current atate and the identity of the decoded byte. In another aspect, the invention features apparatus for locally processing frames of information received from central videotex suppliers. different frames being encoded in accordance with different protocols, including means for locally storing the information frames, means for locally displaying the frames, means for decoding the locally stored frames before they are displayed, and means for tagging each stored frame with a header indicating the protocol used for encoded the frame, the means for decoding being arranged to decode each frame in accordance with the protocol indicated by the header of the frame. Tagging permits proper decoding of various different frames from different suppliers using the proper protocols. Other advantages and features will become apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiment. and from the claims. Description of the Preferred Embodiment We first briefly describe the drawings.Drawings Fig. 1 is a block diagram of a videotex system. Fig. 2 is a block diagram of the subscriber s equipment of Fig. 1. Figs. 3a through 3dd, and 3i1 are menus for display on the display device of Fig. 2. Figs. 3ee through 3ii are messages for display on the display device of Fig. 2. Fig. 3kk is a display of a frame overlaid by a menu. Fig. 4 is a representative help frame for display on the display device of Fig. 2. Figs. 5a. 5b are status lines for display on the display device of Fig. 2. Fig. 6 is a flow diagram of the operation of the decoder module of Fig. 2. and 7d Figs. 7a, 7b. 7clare flow diagrams of the operation of the control module of Fig. 2.Structure and Operation Referring to Fig. 1. in videotex system 10. the subscriber s equipment 12 is connected through port 13 and via an asynchronous modem 14 with a CCITT V.24 RS 232 compatible interface and two way channel 16 to the switched telephone network 18. The equipment e.g.. 20, 24 of different videotex suppliers is also connected, via two way channels 22, 23, to the switched telephone network 18. Channels 16, 22, 23 and the switched telephone network 18 enable relatively high speed e.g.. 1200 bits per second communication of streams of encoded bytes representing frames of information from a suppliers equipment 20, 24 to the subscriber s equipment 12 and relatively low speed communication e.g. 75 bits per second of eata requests and responses from subscriber s equipment 12 to supplier s equipment 20, 24. The communication rate can be the same in either direction, e.g., 2400 bits per second for both sending and receiving. Referring to Fig. 2. subscriber s equipment 12 includes a control module 30 connected via port 13 to modem 14. and to decoder and display print modules 32. 34. Decoder and display print modules 32. 34 are connected through screen driver 37 to an industry standard red. green. blue, color CRT 36 and to a printer 38 Wang Matrix Printer PC PMO10 . Control module 30 is also connected to keyboard 40 a data entry device . and to disk file 42 Wang diskette drive with 360 kilobytes storage capacity or a Wang Winchester drive .Control, decoder. and display print modules 30. 32, 34 comprise a processor 35 which is implemented as a Wang Personal Computer PC 001 with 128 kilobytes of memory. an asynchronous interface card for interaction with the port, an MS DOS operating system version 2.01. BIOS version 1.21. and WangVideotex decoder software release 1.0. The Wang PersonalComputer is described in United States patent application serial number 440.668, filed November 10. 1982 An Wang et al.,Management Communications Terminal. incorporated herein by reference. Control module 30 manages the operation of the subscriber s equipment. accepts the received stream cf encoded bytes for each frame from modem 14. temporarily stores the frame in a buffer provided in decoder module 32, directs the decoder module 32 to decode the stored frame. directs the display module 34 which. in turn controls screen driver 37, aWang Industry Standard Monitor Graphics Card. type PC PM003 to display the decoded characters on CRT 36. directs when the printer 38 is to print the decoded characters, receives and decodes the subscriber s requests and responses from keyboard 40. and as appropriate either acts upon them or encodes them in accordance with the proper protocol and delivers them to modem 14 for transmission to the appropriate videotex supplier. Decoder module 32. when instructed to do so by control module 30. decodes the encoded bytes of a frame stored in disk file 42 and delivers the decoded characters and attribute instructions to display print module 34 for display on CRT 36. Display print module 34 either delivers a frame of bits to screen driver 37. or a stream of groups of bits, each corresponding to a character, to printer 38. Screen driver 37 uses a bit map technique to drive CRT 36 to display the frame characters, and includes a screen buffer having storage locations corresponding to each screen location. In general, the subscriber s equipment 12 is arranged to enable the subscriber to work both with frames currently being delivered from the videotex supplier and frames which were previously received from a suplic, isplayed, anR Ghen stored locally in disk file 42. Frames being currently delivered from a supplier are immediately displayed. The subscriber can interactively respond to options offered in such a displayed frame, or request other frames, by keying in the proper commands which are immediately transmitted back to the videotex supplier. Currently displayed frames can also be given names by the subscriber and stored e.g., in organized groups in directories established in disk file 42, for later retrieval and display. In addition to displaying information frames. the subscriber s equipment also can display stored menus which describe options which can be chosen by the subscriber using the appropriate keys on keyboard 40. Help screens may also be displayed to provide information to a subscriber who is confused about how to proceed. The system operates in either of two modes selected by the subscriber, unconnected or connected. In the connected mode, the subscriber s equipment is attached through modem L4 and the switched telephone network to a videotex supplier.Operating in the connected mode typically entails telephone toll charges and subscriber fees. In the connected mode, the subscriber may work either with frames being supplied from the videotex supplier or with frames previously stored. In the unconnected mode, there is no connection to a videotex supplier and the subscriber may only print or display locally stored frames. When the subscriber. by appropriate keyboard commands a begins a videotex session, the system enters the unconnected mode. The control module 30 gets and causes display print module 34 to display the menu shown in Fig. 3a. The same menu also appears at any later time in the session when requested by the subscriber if the system is then in the unconnected mode.The menu offers the subscriber the options of displaying a local frame i.e. a frame already stored in disk file 42 , storing a frame. printing a frame, logging on to remote viewdata i.e., calling and connecting to a videotex supplier .or performing system functions. At the lower right hand corner of the menu instructions are provided to the subscriber. The subscriber elects an option by using the space bar on keyboard 40 to move cursor 43 to the desired option and then by pressing the execute key. Alternatively by pressing the cancel key the subscriber can remove the menu. If the subscriber selects the option of logging on to a remote videotex supplier. control module 30 next gets and causes display print module 34 to display the menu in Fig. 3b, which offers the subscriber options of several different videotex suppliers. The subscriber can elect one of the options again using the space bar and execute keys as instructed at the bottom of the menu and is then presented wit the display inFig. 3c, which gives the telephone numbers, subscriber lD, and password for calling and being connected to the selected videotex supplier. The subscriber may then manually dial the telephone number. the ID is automatically transmitted. and the password is typed in by the subscriber in the spaces provided.Alternatively. the system could be arranged for automatically dialing the selected videotex supplier and delivering the ID and password to effect the connection. Once the connection is made. the control module enters the connected mode during which it accepts frames from the videotex supplier, delivers them byte by byte to the decoder module 32 where they are stored temporarily in the decoder buffer, and directs decoder module 32 to decode them and to cause display print module 34 to display them on the CRTControl module also accepts from the keyboard any requests or responses intended for transmission to the videotex supplier and effects the transmission. Thus the subscriber can interact with the videotex supplier in the normal way. From time to time during operation in the connected mode, the subscriber may wish to temporarily interrupt his current activity. For example. he may wish to change the displayed frame from the one being sent by the remote supplier to one stored in disk file 42. By touching the cancel key.control module 30 will superimpose over the currently displayed frame. the menu of Fig. 3d. which ptozldes the subszr4Ber wirh options similar to the menu of Fig. 3a except that the fourth option enables the subscriber to log off from the remote videotex supplier. The superimposed menu doesn t entirely obscure the current frame. but leaves a portion of it on one side and at the top visible to the subscriber. If the subscriber elects the log off option. control module 30 causes the menu of Fig. 3e to be displayed. The subscriber can then confirm his intention to log off by pressing execute , after which control module 30 effects the log off. and the system enters the unconnected mode. The displayed status line described below then no longer includes the elapsed connect line. In either the connected or unconnected modes, the menus of Figs. 3a. 3d give the subscriber the option of storing the currently displayed frame. e.g., a current frame sent from a videotex supplier. in disk file 42. If that option is chosen. control module 30 causes the menu of Fig. 3f to be displayed. The subscriber may then choose and enter a name for the frame in the space provided. or before doing so may ask to see the frame directory by pressing the indent key, i.e.. program function key 1 . In the latter case the control module 30 will cause the display of the menu of Fig. 3g listing the name of the current directory, the disk drive on which it resides. and the names of all local frames stored in disk file 42, or, if the directory is ll display a menu which says The Directory is Empty . Once the subscriber enters the frame name on the menu of Fig 3f, control module stores the frame in that directory under that name for later easy retrieval. If the chosen frame name is already being used, control module 30 will cause the menu of Fig. 3h to be displayed to indicate that fact and permit the subscriber to confirm that the current frame should replace the old stored frame of the same name. Thus the store frame function can be used to store a frame currently being displayed from the videotex supplier or to revile or rename a locally stored frame. In either the connected or unconnected mode. the menus of Figs. 3a, 3d, also permit the subscriber to display a stored local frame. Thus even when the system is connected to a remote supplier, the subscriber may temporarily interrupt the interactive session, while remaining in the connected mode, and display a stored local frame. When the subscriber elects to display a local frame, the menu of Fig. 3i is displayed. The subscriber then may enter the name of the frame to be displayed, or use the cursor to indicate the frame. The control module 30 then retrieves and causes the requested frame to be displayed. Likewise, in either the connected or unconnected mode, the subscriber can elect to print a displayed frame. Control module 30 then causes the menu of F,g. 3j to be Zi5praye. enabling the subscriber to select small or large format print, which governs the overall size of the printed frame. Based on the selection, the control module 30 via display print module 34 causes printer 38 to print the currently displayed frame. Finally, in either connected or unconnected mode, the menus of Figs. 3a, 3d, allow the subscriber the option of performing various system functions. When that option is selected, control module 30 causes the menu of Fig. 3k to be displayed and allows the subscriber to select one of four system functions modify log on parameters, modify storage parameters, delete stored frame, and select character set. When the subscriber elects the option of modifying log on parameters, control module 30 causes the menu of Fig. 31 to be displayed. The subscriber may then elect either to delete a log on procedure, or to modify or create a log on procedure. If a log on procedure is to be deleted, the menu ofFig. 3m is displayed1 enabling the subscriber to select the log on procedure to be deleted, followed by the menu of Fig.3n, which confirms the subscriber s wish to delete that procedure. If the subscriber elects to modify or create a log on procedure, control module 30 causes the display of a succession of menus, Figs. 30 through 3bb, which enable the subscriber to define or change the values of various parameters Me eteXCto establish a connection to a particular videotex supplier, and protocol information needed for proper interaction with the supplier. In particular, the subscriber can specify or change Fig. 30 a short name for the procedure, e.g. Prestel to identify the procedure used to call and connect to the Prestel service the serial communications port of the subscriber s equipment at which the connection to the modem is made and whether the transmit receive rate is to be equal in both directions or different split for transmission and reception Fig. 3p the baud rate for receiving data Fig. 3q , for transmitting data Fig. 3r , or for receiving and transmitting data at equal speeds Fig. 3s the number of bits per character, the stop bit length. and theparity protocol Fig.3t the error substitute action and character code, and the duplex mode Fig. 3u the character set Fig. 3v the subscriber identification number and subscriber password Fig.3w the telephone numbers of the videotex supplier Fig. 3x the proper log off. back up frame, repeat frame, and home frame codes for transmission to the particular videotex supplier to control the delivery of frames Fig. 3y user keyword names and codes to be described below Fig. 3z the choice of displaying or not displaying the procedure as part of the log on menu Fig. 3aa and a confirmation of the storage of the just defined procedure Fig. 3bSj. Each frame available from a videotex supplier has an associated identifier assigned by the supplier. For example, the weather forecast might be assigned the code 3097 . The current weather forecast frame is always available by sending that identifier to the supplier. Using the menu of Fig. 3z, the subscriber can enter the code and give it a keyword name, e.g., weather. Available user keywords can be displayed by pressing the dec tab key, i.e., function key 4, which causes the menu of Fig. 33j to be displayed. When the subscriber selects the modify storage parameters option of Fig. 3k, control module 30 causes the menu of Fig. 3cc to be displayed, which enables the subscriber to specify the current directory of stored local frames i.e., the one to which frames are sent for storage and fr om which stored frames are retrieved and specify the disk drive on which it is to reside. When the subscriber selects the delete stored frame option of Fig. 3k, the menu of Fig. 3dd is presented, enabling the subscriber to name the file to be deleted. When the subscriber selects the select character set option on Fig. 3k, the menu of Fig. 3v is displayed enabling the user to select the character set, i.e.. the character font e.g., English or German which will be used in displaying the frames. When certain options are selected by the subscriber from a menu, the control module causes a display on the screen of either a message that the requested option has been executed the possible execution messages are listed in Fig. 3ee or an error message the possible error messages are listed in Fig.3ff . In response to the subscriber naming a frame which is missing or defective, the message in Fig. 3gg is displayed.When the subscriber names a directory, the control module 30 may. if appropriate, display the error messages of Figs. 3hh and 3ii. Referring to Fig, 3kk. whenever a menu is to be shown to a subscriber while a frame of information is being displayed, the menu is overlaid on the frame so that portions of the frame are still visible around the peripherY of the screen. If the subscriber wishes to uncover the entire frame, he presses the cancel key to page through the hierarchy of menus until a menu at the top of the hierarchy appears. Pressing cancel again will uncover the entire current frame. Whenever a menu is being displayed, the subscriber may take different actions by pressing different keys. The available actions depend or which menu is being displayed.Some of the available actions are indicated at the lower right of the frame. Generally the cancel key is used to remove the present menu and return to the prior menu. If there is no prior menu the cancel key removes the menu. leaving the underlying information frame fully displayed. TY, 2 HfiEahcef key causes either the main menu Fig. 3a or Fig. 3d to be displayed. or causes the videotex session to be terminated.The space bar is used to move the cursor. The execute key is used to execute the option selected by the subscriber. The indent key function key num 1 displays the frame directory. The help key causes a help frame described below to be displayed. When no menu is being displayed the shift cancel key causes the main menu to be displayed. The actions available to the subscriber at any time can be seen by pressing the help key. which causes a help frame to be displayed. For example, referring to Fig. 4. the help frame which appears if the help key is pressed while the connected main menu is displayed lists the available functions. Successive strokes of the page key function key 2 causes the modem to be alternately ignored or acknowledged. The center key function key num 3 allows the status line described below to be displayed or removed. The format key function key num 6 allows the underlying frame behind an overlaid menu to be displayed or removed. Referring to Figs. Sa, 5b, the system is capable of displaying a status line with every frame and menu indicating whether the subscriber s equipment is unconnected to the videotex supplier Fig. 5a , or is connected Fig. 5b in which case the elapsed time since the connection was begun is shown at the end of the line. in this way, the subscriber is always alerted to the fact that he is incurring charges while connected, even though he may be working with locally stored frames. The subscriber can choose whether or not to display the status line using the center key. Different videotex suppliers use different encoding schemes for the data which make up frames of information in their respective systems. Control and decoder modules 30, 32 may be capable of recognizing, for each frame to be decoded, the identity of the videotex system in accordance with which the encoding was done, and must be capable of applying the appropriate decoding rules for the particular frame being decoded. Each frame stored in disk file 42 includes a frame header of 64 bytes of which 42 are actually used . The frame header identifies a the name assigned to the frame by the subscriber, b a unique arbitrary frame identifier, c a frame offset indicating the number of bytes from the start of header to the start of the frame data, d the number of bytes of data in the frame, e the encoding protocol e.g., ASCII, or Prestel , f the language e.g., English, German , g the version of the system software, h the version of the encoding protocol, and i the videotex supplier.By storing this information as a frame header, decoding, frame retrieval, and file management are made more accurate a,Z etficlent. The interaction between control module 30 and decoder module 32 is accomplished in such a way that each of the modules executes certain procedures when told to do so by the other module. In particular, the decoder module 32, when told to do so by control module 30, performs any necessary decoder initialization and returns a flag to the control module 30 if initialization fails performs any necessary de initialization and returns a flag if de initialization fails accepts and decodes a single byte and returns a flag if action is required by the control module, for example if the decoded character represents a request by the videotex supplier to have the subscriber s equipment send back its ID number causes the display print module 34 to print the entire contents of the decoder buffer onto the CRT at a displayed frame beginning with the first character in the decoder buffer causes the display print module 34 to print selected portions of the decoder buffer onto the CRT to cause a display of selected rows of an information frame causes display print module 34 to print the current contents of the display buffer and returns a flag if the printing failed and sets the decoder character font e.g., either English or German . Conversely. the control module 30, when instructed to do so by decoder module 32, clears the display screen while maintaining the status line on the screen C tuEtiF decoder module an index value indicating the language specified by the frame file header associated with the current local frame and returns to the decoder module an index value indicating the language specified by the current log on procedure The interaction between the control module 30 and decoder module 32 is also governed by a set of common flags and variables maintained by the decoder module 32.The common flags and variables are a flag set by the control module 30 to indicate that characters sent to the decoder module should be displayed a flag set by the control module 30 to indicate that conceal1, fields i.e.. portions of the information frames which may need to be concealed, such as answers to quiz questions posed in the frames should be concealed an address of the decoder buffer set by the decoder an address set by the decoder to indicate a number block of the videotex supplier a flag which is set when a request is made and reset when the request has been satisfied a value set by the decoder to indicate the videotex supplier s block number subject to modification and a value set by the decoder to indicate an action requested by the videotex supplier.The action requested by the videotex supplier may be to send the supplier appropriate ID information or to indicate to the control module that the beginning of a remote frame i.e.. one being sent from the supplier has been received. While the decoding applicable to each type of videotex system must. of course. satisfy the protocol rules for that system, and thus be unique, decoder module 32 is arranged so that decoding for widely different videotex systems can proceed in similar ways. The decoding is accomplished by a table oriented system. Before a frame of encoded bytes is received for decoding control module 30 causes decoder module 32 to set all positions in the decoder buffer to spaces. The received and decoded characters are then overwritten into the appropriate positions in the decoder buffer. Attribute codes are tagged before being stored to indicate that they relate to an attribute and are not themselves to be displayed. Whenever a stored frame is to be displayed, decoder module 32 must decode the characters and attributes and deliver the decoded information to display print module 34. The decoding for each different protocol is accomplished by means of values stored in tables associated with that protocol. Based on the relevant protocol. the decoder follows a straightforward sequence of steps to decode each byte, using the tables for that protocol to produce a displayable alphanumeric or graphic character for each of the row and column positions of the display. The tables are calledFrame, State, Character Font, and Transition. The Frame table corresponds to she Decoder butter and has as many entries as there are positions in the display. Teach entry in the Frame table is the encoded byte for the display position corresponding to that entry. The Character Font table contains the bit pattern information defining each one of, for example, 172 different characters which may be displayed as single height and double height characters, either alphanumeric, contiguous, or separated mosaics. The State table contains values indicating the state attributes of the display which are applicable at a given time with respect to the display, for example to effect mosaic or alphanumeric. color of foreground. color of background, position in line, and to locate the place in the character table where the relevant character definition is found. The Transition table has entries, indicating for the current encoded byte and the current state, what action is to be performed and what the next state is to be. For example, one entry in this table would be put character C into line L, row K using attributes specified in the State table . Another would be display current line from current position to end of line in background color specified in the State table . Referring to Fig. 6, the steps performed by decoder, module 32 for decoding and displaying a stored frame i.e., for repainting the screen begin with clearing all display positions and initializing the state cable row . In the case of a current frame being delivered from the videotex supplier, the decoding steps begin at the decode of a character entry point 101 . The decoder module 32 then executes a loop which has the following steps. The next encoded byte is either retrieved 102 from Frame table 104, or delivered directly from control module 30. as the case may be. On the basis of the byte value, the current states and the state table 106. the 1. decoder determines 108 what action is to be taken and if a character is to be displayed, determines the character table pointer i.e.. the location in the character table where the corresponding character definition will be found . Next, using the current state 107, the Transition table 112, and theCharacter table 118, the decoder determines what changes to the display are needed. if any, and executes them 114 , e.g., by delivering the appropriate character definitions from theCharacter table 118 to the display print module 34. Then.using the current state 107 and the Transition table 120. the decoder determines what state changes are needed and executes them 122 by modifying the State. Finally, the decoder returns to receive 102 the next byte from the control module.or gets the next byte from the Frame table, as the case may be. repeating the sequence until all encoded bytes in the frame have been processed. The overall operation of the system is managed by the control module, which is arranged to perform the following routines as required 1 initialize the asynchronous port 13 connected to modem 14, 2 close off at appropriate times the port 13 connected to modem 14, 3 look to the asynchronous port 13 for a byte received from the videotex supplier and check parity, 4 look to the input buffer of keyboard 40 for a keyed in character, 5 deliver a byte to the asynchronous port 13 for transmission to the videotex supplier, 6 check keyed in characters to see if they are valid bytes under the videotex supplier s protocol, 7 tell the decoder module to stop sending characters to the display so that a help frame can be displayed, 8 store a current frame in the disk file under a name specified by the subscriber, 9 print a current frame via display print module on printer 38, 10 log onto videotex service, 11 log off, 12 store a specified frame having a specified identifier from the videotex supplier, 13 transmit a frame number or other comments to the videotex supplier. and 14 display appropriate menus. Referring to Fig. 7a, the control module continually cycles through a main processing loop with two embedded loops.The routing of the process through the loops depends on two two state variables finished and show display . When finished 200 is true the control module ends the videotex session. When finished is false but show display 202 is true, the character processing loop 204 is entered. When finished is false and show display is false, the menu display and processing loop 206 is entered. In the menu display and processing loop, the system first determines 207 whether the menu is to be overlaid on the information frame with some of the frame remaining visible. If so. the control module instructs the decoder to clear only a portion of the decoder 209 buffer to make room for the overlay. Otherwise. the entire decoder buffer is cleared 211 . Next, if the system is in the logged in connected mode 208 . the connected mode main menu is displayed 210 otherwise the unconnected mode main menu is displayed 212 .Then. based on the option chosen by the subscriber 214, 216, 218, 220, 222, 224, 226, 228, 230, 231 . the system either a sets show display to true 232 and returns to begin which causes the menu to be removed and the current frame to be displayed . b retrieves a local frame 234 to be displayed and sets show display true. C storey a fran 236 and returns to begin. d prints a frame 238 and returns to begin. e logs on 240 and sets show display true causing the received frame to be displayed . f logs off 242 and sets show display true, g displays the system functions menu 244 , h executes any user functions 246 and sets show display true. i sets finished true 248 if the subscriber has pressed shift cancel. or j resets the overlay flag to change from an overlaid to a non overlaid display or vice versa. If the system functions menu is displayed 244 , then based on the option chosen by the subscriber 250. 252. 254, 256. 260. 262 the system. with the subscriber s assistance, either a modifies the log on procedure 264 , b modifies the frame directory 266 . c deletes a stored frame 268 , d effects a character selection 270 . or e returns to 244 or to begin In character processing loop 204, if a character is to be displayed 280 . the character is fetched and delivered to the decoder for decoding and display 282 . If a keyboard character is to be processed 284 . the character is either transmitted to the videotex supplier 286 or is executed as a command If the help key is pressed 290 . the appropriate help menu 291 is displayed. If the cancel or shift cancel is pressed 292. 294 . show display is set false 296 causing the system to return to the menu display and processing loop to display a menu. If the subscriber asks to have hidden information in the frame revealed 298 . the information is revealed 300 . If the subscriber calls a user function 302 . the user function is executed 304 . Referring to Fig. 7d, the status line is controlled by a status line routine 350 which begins by determining 352 whether a display status line flag is true indicating that the status line is to be displayed . If true. the system determines 354 whether the mode is connected or unconnected. If connected. it causes the display 356 of the elapsed time check at the end of the status line. In the next step. the system determines 358 whether the currently displayed frame is a stored local frame from the disk file or a remote frame being delivered from the supplier and accordingly displays either ULOCAL FRAME 360 or REMOTE FRAME 362 at the beginning of the status line. The system determines 364 whether the center key function key num 3 has been pressed and if so switches 366 the state of the display status line flag to cause the status line to be removed if previously displayed or displayed if previously absent . Other embodiments are within the following claims.For example, the supplier might be located within the same facility as the subscriber, thus requiring no modem. What is claimed is