# Compounds having cardiotrophic activity, a process for the preparation thereof and pharmaceutical compositions therefrom.

## Abstract
Compounds of formula 1

## Claims
CLAIMS for AT 1. A process for preparing compounds of general formula I EMI8.1 wherein n 1 or 2, characterized by reacting d glu cose l phosphoric acid and L carnitine in an aqueous medium. 2. A process according to claim 1, wherein gluco se l phosphoric acid and L carnitine are present in 1 1 ratio. 3. A process to claim 1, wherein OLglucose l pho sphoric acid and L carnitine are present in 1 2 ratio. 4. A process according to claim 1, wherein the obtained compound is precipitate by means of a water miscible non solvent. 5. A process according to claim 1, wherein acetone or ethanol are used as the non solvent.

## Description
Compounds having cardiotrophic activity, a process for the preparation thereof and pharmaceutical compositions therefrom The present invention relates to novel compounds, consisting of one or two molecules of L carnitine and one molecule of t glucose l phosphoric acid, having the following formulaEMI1.1 wherein n 1 or 2. The L carnitine in the molecule of the compounds of the invention acts as a carrier in the fatty acids transport into the mithocondres of the cardiac muscle, wherein said fatty acids are subjected to ss oxydation with production of energy. The other component of compounds I, i.e. O glucose l phosphoric acid, plays an important role in the glycogenolysis process, and it is therefore a fundamental source of energy, especially in ipoxia conditions. As a result, the simultaneous presence of L carnitine and a glucose l phosphoric acid gives to myocardium the maximum energetic supply. The compounds according to the invention are therefore useful in human therapy, in the treatment of acute and chronic coronary insufficiency and car diac decompensation. The present invention, therefore, also relates to pharmaceutical compositions containing as active principles compounds I, for the treatment of the above mentioned pathological conditions. The present invention relates also to a method for preparing compounds I , which method consists in admixing aqueous solutions containing one mole of glucose l phosphoric acid with aqueous solutions containing one or two moles of L carnitine inner salt, concentrating the resulting solutions under reduced pressure, and precipitating the desired compound with acetone or ethanol or other suitable water miscibile non solvent. Alternatively, compounds I may be obtained by freeze drying the aqueous solutions. The qualitative or quantitative composition may be ascertained by determining the two components of compounds I by means of highly specific enzymatic analytic methods. oGGlucose l phosphoric acid is determined according to the procedure described by H.U. Bergmeyer andH. Klotsch in H.U. Bergmeyer Methods of EnzymaticAnalysis 1983, pag. 13i . L Carnitine is determined according to the method described by D.J. Person et al. in Methoden Enzym. Anal. 1974, pag. 1806. The following examples further illustrate the process of the invention, without limiting it in any way.EXAMPLE 1Acid L Carnitine o glucose l phosphate I, n 1 100 M1 of an aqueous solution containing 26 g 0.1 mole of glucose l phosphoric acid was admixed with 100 ml of an aqueous solution containing 16.12 g 0.1 mole of L carnitine inner salt. The resulting solution was concentrated under reduced pressure, at a temperature not above 400C, to about 50 ml, then it was diluted with 50 ml of acetone, cooled to 0 C and, after appearance of the first crystals, further diluted with 200 ml of acetone. Then, the reaction mixture was filtered, washed on the filter with 100 ml of absolute ethanol and dried under vacuum at 500C for 12 hours, to yield 31.5 g 76 theoretic of a compound having the following characteristics. alpha D20 c 5 in H20 64 D 2 pH 1 aqueous solution 2.9 0.2. o Glucose l phosphoric acid content 61.75 enzymatic titre L Carnitine content 38.25 enzymatic titre Pt 7.36 0.2. EXAMPLE 2Neutral L carnitine 4 glucose l phosphate I, n 2 100 M1 of an aqueous solution containing 26 g 0.1 mole of C glucose l phosphoric acid was admixed with 200 ml of an aqueous solution containing 32.24 g 0.2 mole of L carnitine inner salt. The resulting solution was filtered through a sterilizing membrane, then freeze dried, obtaining a white amorphous powder, having the following characteristics. alpha D20 c 5 in H20 41 pH 1 aqueous solution 6.5 0.5 t Glucose l phosphoric acid content 44.6 enzymatic titre L Carnitine content 55.4 enzymatic titre P 5.32 0.2. The present invention relates also to all the industrially applicable aspects connected to the use of compounds I as cardiotrophic agents. An essential aspect of the invention is therefore provided by pharmaceutical compositions containing compounds of formula I alone or in admixture with a pharmaceutical carrier. Examples of pharmaceutical forms which can be used in human therapy are tablets, sachets, oral solutions, vials and bottles containing the compounds of the present invention in solute or lyophilized form for parenteral use. The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may be administered orally at dosages ranging from 0.500 to 5 g die, or parenterally at dosages ranging from 1 to 5 g die. Non limiting examples of pharmaceutical compositions according to the invention are reported hereinbelow.Tablets Active principle g 0.5 Starch g 0.2 Talc g 0.01Sachets Active principle g 2 Saccharose g 8 Flavours g 6Solution Active principle g 30 Flavoured syrup g 50 H20 q.s. to ml 100Monodose vials Active principle g 1 Flavoured syrups ml 5Intravenous or intramuscular vials Active principle g 1 Sterile water ml 5 CLAIMS for the Contracting States BE, CH, DE, FR, GB, IT, LI, LU, NL, SE 1. Compounds of general formula I EMI6.1 wherein n 1 or 2.2. A compound according to claim 1, wherein n 1.3. A compound according to claim 1, wherein n 2.4. A process for preparing the compounds according to claims 1 3, wherein t glucose l phosphoric acid and L carnitine are reacted in an aqueous medium. 5. A process for preparing the compound according to claim 2, wherein t glucose l phosphoric acid andL carnitine are present in 1 1 ratio.6. A process for preparing the compound according to claim 3, wherein qEglucose l phosphoric acid andL carnitine are present in 1 2 ratio. 7. The process according to claim 4, wherein the obtained compound is precipitated by means of a water miscible non solvent.8. The process according to claim 7, wherein acetone or ethanol are used as the non solvent.9. Pharmaceutical compositions having cardiotrophic activity, for the treatment of acute and chronic co ronary insufficiency and cardiac decompensation, containing as the active principle at least one compound according to claim 1.10. Pharmaceutical compositions according to claim 9, for oral administration, in form of tablets, capsules, dragees, monodose sachets and vials, syrups.11. Pharmaceutical compositions according to claim 9, for parenteral administration in form of suppositories, injectable solutions.