# Perfluoro carbon compound aqueous dispersions.

## Abstract
Compositions having enhanced gas and drug transport ing capability, are prepared by providing a perfluoro com pound dispersed in an aqueous medium with a surfactant to form an aqueous initial dispersion, concentrating the per fluoro compound phase of the dispersion as by centrifuga tion or filtration, wherein a portion of the surfactant remains complexed with the particles of the peifluoro compound phase and the balance of the surfactant is in the aqueous phase, separating the phases, and redispersing the particles of the concentrated perfluoro compound phase to form a final dispersion in which a major portion of the surfactant is complexed with the perfluoro compound particles.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A gas and drug transporting composition comprising a stable, uniform, aqueous dispersion of a perfluoro compound and a principal surfactant, wherein at least a major proportion of the principal surfactant present is complexed with the perfluoro compound. 2. A composition according to claim 1, wherein at least 75 by weight of the principal surfactant is complexed with the perfluoro compound. 3. A composition according to either of the preceding claims, wherein the amount of the perfluoro compound is about 20 75 by weight of the dispersion and the amount of the principal surfactant is about 0.1 3.0 by weight of the dispersion. 4. The composition of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the perfluorocompound is a non aromatizable perfluorinated Cg Cl8 polycyclic hydrocarbon containing at least two bridgehead carbon atoms linked through a bridge containing at least one carbon atom, and the surfactant is nonionic. 5. A composition according to claim 4, wherein the perfluorocompound comprises a mixture of F dimethyladamantane and F trimethylbicyclo 3.3.1 nonane. 6. A composition according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the surfactant is a fluorinated amidoamine oxide compound or a polyoxyethylene, polyoxypropylene or copolymer thereof or a phospholipid. 7. A composition according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the dispersion additionally contains an auxiliary surfactant. 8. A process for preparing an aqueous dispersion of a perfluorocompound, which comprises a providing an initial dispersion comprising i a perfluoro compound phase containing principal surfactant complexed with the perfluoro compound, and ii an aqueous phase containing free principal surfactant b concentrating the perfluoro compound phase c separating all or a portion of the aqueous phase from the concentrated perfluoro compound phase d redispersing the concentrated perfluoro compound phase with an amount of an aqueous medium effective to redisperse the perfluoro compound phase and thereby to form a final dispersion. 9. The process of claim 8, wherein substantially all of the aqueous phase is separated from the perfluoro compound phase in step c . 10. The process of either of claims 8 and 9, wherein an auxiliary surfactant is added in step d in an amount effective to promote redispersion of the concentrated perfluoro compound phase. 11. A process according to any one of claims 8 10, wherein the concentrating of step b is effected by centrifugation. 12. A process according to any one of claims 8 11, wherein the amount of principal surfactant in the final dispersion is less than the amount in the initial dispersion. 13. A process according to any one of claims 8 12, wherein the initial dispersion is prepared by agitating a mixture of perfluoro compound and a principal surfactant in an aqueous medium. 14. A process according to any one of claims 8 13, wherein the perfluoro compound phase separated in step c from the initial dispersion is characterized by a range of particle sizes, and wherein the particles are classified into desired and undesired particle size range materials, and the desired particle size range material is redispersed in step d and the undesired particle size range material is optionally recycled to said mixture for preparation of said initial dispersion. 15. A process according to any one of claims 8 14, wherein the composition obtained is a product according to either of claims 5 and 6.

## Description
PERFLUORO CARBON COMPOUND AQUEOUS DISPERSIONS This invention relates to aqueous dispersions of perfluoro compounds useful as gas transfer agents and for drug delivery and other therapeutic applications in animals including man. Typical perfluoro compounds, dispersions and uses are described in U.S. Patents 3,911,138 to Clark and 4,105,798 to Moore and Clark.The perfluoro compounds described in these patents are essentially non toxic and therefore eminently suitable for therapeutic uses. Aqueous dispersions of perfluoro compounds, such as those of the U.S. patents cited above, are prepared by dissolving a surfactant in water, adding the perfluoro compound, and then agitating the mixture until a uniform dispersion of the perfluoro compound is obtained. Since the perfluoro compounds are extremeiy hydrophobic, considerable mechanical energy is required for effective dispersion, such as high pressure homogenization or sonically induced cavitation. Depending on selection of perfluoro compound, surfactant and proportions of ingredients, highly stable dispersions of very small average particle size, on the order of about 0.1 to 1.0 micron in diameter, are obtained. In such cases, the dispersions are essentially transparent and are sometimes described in the literature as microemulsions U.S.Patent No. 3,778,381 to Rosano et al . However, in other cases useful dispersions can be prepared having larger average particle sizes and these may be borderline between suspensions and emulsions.Accordingly, the term dispersion is used in this specification to indicate, generically, any two phase system, whether a suspension, emulsion or micro emulsion, and whether oil in water, water inroil or invert, and the term wperfluoro compound phase means the perfluoro compoundcontaining particles of the dispersion. For purposes of illustration, the emphasis in this specification will be on the more preferred compositions, rip., emulsions or microemulsions of the oil in water type. To overcome the difficulty of forming good dispersions with the extremely hydrophobtc perfluoro compounds it is common practice to prepare the dispersions using a high proportion of surfactant to perfluoro compound of the order of about 1 5 by weight and low concentrations of perfluoro compound about 20 258 w v . This facilitates not only good dispersability but also small particle size. The resulting dispersions have good stability and low viscosity which promote their rapid transit throughout the cardiovascular system, particularly in capillaries or vessels which are blocked or constricted. Such dispersions will also exhibit reduced retention in the reticuloendothelial system RES .However, the goal of optimizing the dispersion process and physical qualities of the dispersion particularly stability and viscosity imposes a practical upper limit on the amount of perfluoro compound in the finished dispersions and thereby also limits the gas transfer capacity of the dispersions and their capacity for treatment of hypoxic cells and for carrying lipophilic drugs in the manner described inEuropean Patent Publication A 105584. Additionally, while it is possible although not always practical because of formulation difficulties to select surfactants and or dosages thereof which re sufficiently non toxic by LD50 standards, other toxic responses attributable to the surfactants, such as complement activation, have been reported. This has led either to excluding the surfactants from use in perfluoro compound dispersions or to reduction in their concentration with proportionate reduction in the amount of perfluoro compound which can be effectively dispersed. In summary, it has heretofore been considered necessary, in order to satisfy the requirements of efficient dispersability, low particle size, stability and viscosity on the one hand, and sufficient gas transfer capacity and biological compatibility on the other, to maintain fairly low concentrations of perfluoro compound in aqueous dispersions thereof, on the order of no more than about 25 w v , i.e., about 25g 100ml. of the total dispersion, so that the amount of surfactant may also be kept low, on the order of no more than about 2 5 w v , i.e., about 2 5g 100ml. of the total dispersion. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION It has now been found, in accordance with the invention, that the amount of surfactant heretofore regarded as necessary in forming high quality, biologically compatible, therapeutic aqueous dispersions of perfluoro compounds, can be substantially and even drastically reduced without diminishing ability to maintain the perfluoro compounds in stable, uniform dispersion and without sacrificing those properties of the dispersions which contribute to therapeutic efficacy, such as low viscosity, stability and high amounts of perfluoro compound.Quite the contrary, the perfluoro compound dispersions can now be even more efficiently prepared and can contain higher amounts of the perfluoro compound than heretofore deemed possible, but with the low particle size, low viscosity and good stability which are the hallmarks of the earlier dispersions described in the Clark and Moore patents cited above. These seemingly contradictory, but highly beneficial results are obtained in one method of prac tice of the invention by a providing an initial aqueous dispersion of perfluoro compound and surfactant, b concentrating the perfluoro compound phase of the initial dispersion, c separating all or part of the concentrated perfluoro compound phase from the aqueous phase, and d redispersing the concentrated perfluoro compound phase in an aqueous medium. Concentrating as the term is used herein, means condensing, amassing or gathering together the perfluoro compound particles to form a perfluoro compound phase more concentrated in perfluoro compound than in the initial dispersion. The redispersion may be achieved with sterile water alone or redispersion may be facilitated by addition of an aqueous medium containing a suitable auxiliary surfactant or other agent.Moreover, as hereinafter described, the foregoing concentration, separation and redispersion steps may be practiced in a continuous manner and or may be combined with classification of the concentrated perfluoro compound phase particles with consequent even greater uniformity of particle size. In one aspect of the invention, therefore, there is provided a method of preparing aqueous dispersions of perfluoro compounds having the advantage of reduction, in the final dispersion, of the amount of surfactant heretofore considered necessary for such dispersions. In another aspect of the invention, the aforesaid. method additionally affords the opportunity to use, in preparing the initial dispersion, the higher proportions of surfactant to perfluoro compound known to facilitate more efficient dispersion and the formation of high quality dispersions of perfluoro compounds but without, ultimately, increasing the viscosity to undesirable levels or introducing the unacceptable toxicity associated with many surfactants. For internal use the dispersions of the invention will have viscosities at body temperature 370C, of no greater than the viscosity of blood and preferably considerably lower, e.g., from about the viscosity of water about 0.7 centipoise to about 3.0 centipoise. In still another aspect of the invention, aqueous dispersions of perfluoro compounds are provided which contain higher amounts of perfluoro compound and lower amounts of surfactant than have heretofore been deemed capable of providing satisfactory dispersions, with proportionately improved capacity for gas transfer and therapeutic effect, and proportionately diminished toxicity attributable to the surfactant. In a further, highly significant and preferred aspect of the invention, aqueous dispersions of perfluoro compounds are provided which not only have the characteristics described in the foregoing aspects, but also have controlled, small particle size range, low viscosity and good stability. These improvements lead to desirable biological characteristics such as good cardiovascular residence time and low RES retention, and ultimately to greater therapeutic benefit of the nature described in the aforementioned Clark and Moore patents and European Patent Publication A 105584. The extraordinary benefits of the invention are based in part upon the discovery that when the perfluoro compound phase of the initial dispersion is concentrated, a portion, often a minor portion, of the surfactant will remain with the perfluoro compound particles and the balance of the surfactant, often the major portion, will be in the aqueous phase. The concentrated perfluoro compound phase is then separated from the aqueous phase and readily redisperses in an aqueous medium which does not contain the surfactant removed with the aqueous phase in the separation step.In some cases the concentration step results in two distinct layers comprising a perfluoro compound phase and an aqueous phase. When practiced continuously, as described below, layering of the phases usually will not be observed due to the dynamic characteristics of the process but concentrating, separation and redis persion nevertheless occur. It is not fully understood how or why this phenomenon occurs. In some manner a portion of the surfactant binds with or is adsorbed to the perfluoro compound, thus forming perfluoro compound containing particles during the initial dispersion process and or the concentrating step in which surfactant is so tightly bound that it remains complexed with the perfluoro compound particles during the subsequent concentrating and or phase separation steps. The other portion of the surfactant remains free uncomplexed in the continuous, aqueous phase of the initial dispersion. Thus, an important feature of the invention is that a substantial portion of the surfactant present in the initial dis persion remains as free, uncomplexed surfactant and therefore is separated from the perfluoro compound phase. Accordingly, the free surfactant is not carried through to the final dispersion. The balance of the surfactant remains associated with the perfluoro compound containing particles in sufficient amounts to permit the redispersion. Consequently, according to the invention, the initially larger amounts of surfactant and higher proportion of surfactant to perfluoro compound known to facilitate initial dispersion can now be used but without their ultimate adverse effects, namely, unaccept able viscosity and or toxicity of the final dispersion due to such larger amounts of surfactant. Significantly, also, the larger amounts of surfactant now permissible in the initial dispersion also permit larger amounts of perfluoro compound, e.g., greater than the 20 25 w v heretofore considered the practical upper limit, and therefore provide higher gas transfer capacity than is possible with dispersions containing smaller amounts of perfluoro compound, while permitting suitably small particle size and low viscosity. For the purposes of this specification, the surfactant remaining with the perfluoro compound particles during the concentration and separation steps is identified as associated surfactant, and the surfact ant remaining in the separated aqueous liquid is called free surfactant. Surfactant employed in forming the initial dispersion prior to concentrating and separating is sometimes called principal surfactant herein to distinguish it from auxiliary surfactant which optionally may be used for the redispersion step.Where surfactant is referred to without qualification, surfactant employed in forming the initial dispersion is understood. The terms 1initial dispersion and final dispersion are used herein to mean, respectively, the dispersion provided in the first step of the process of the invention and the dispersion resulting from the subsequent steps of the process. A major proportion of the associated surfactant in the concentrated perfluoro compound phase is complexed with the perfluoro compound, as determined by concentrating the perfluoro compound phase of a sample of a dispersion, measuring the amount of the surfactant in the resulting supernatant layer, and subtracting this amount from the known total amount of surfactant in the sample, thus giving the amount of surfactant complexed within the particles of the concentrated perfluoro compound phase. The process of the invention has been practiced successfully and the sample is a dispersion of the invention if the calculated difference is more than the amount of surfactant in the supernatant layer. Often, this indicates that most of the surfactant was removed during the phase concentration and separation steps practiced on the initial dispersion when forming the final dispersion.In any event, it indicates that a major proportion of the associated surfactant in the concentrated perfluoro compound phase is complexed with the perfluoro compound in the final dispersion and only a minor, even minute, amount is found in the aqueous phase. Preferably, at least 75 by weight of the surfactant in the final dispersion will be found to be complexed with the perfluoro compound. Complexed surfactant, as the term is used herein, denotes surfactant which remains with the concentrated perfluoro compound phase material after removal of the aqueous phase. While it is believed that such surfactant does not chemically combine with the perfluoro compound phase material, the invention is not to be limited by any theory as to the nature of the association, whether physical, chemical or a combination thereof. In determining the amount of complexed surfactant in an aqueous dispersion of a perfluoro compound, centrifugation conditions are used which result in separation of the dispersion into a supernatant aqueous layer and a lower layer which is still a perfluorocarbon dispersion, the integrity of the dispersion having been retained, but which is more concentrated with respect to perfluoro compound as a result of the removal of water therefrom into the aqueous layer. Preferably, when the dispersion of the invention is centrifuged under the conditions set forth in Runs 4 through 9 inTable I below, a major proportion of the surfactant remains complexed in the perfluoro compound phase. Also, preferably, in some embodiments when the dispersion is centrifuged under the stronger conditions set forth in Run 10 in Table I, a major proportion of the surfactant remains complexed in the perfluoro compound phase. The perfluoro compounds used in preparing the dispersions of the invention are any fluorinated hydrocarbons or hetero atom containing derivatives thereof which exhibit gas transfer properties, and which are capable of dispersion in an aqueous medium and of systemic administration as aqueous dispersions to animals including man. The compounds may be substantially fluorinated or completely fluorinated and are generally, but not necessarily, liquids at ambient temperature and pressure. Substantially fluorinated in this specification means that most of the hydrogen atoms of a compound have been replaced by fluorine atoms, such that further replacement does not substantially increase the gas transport capability of the material. It is believed that this level is reached when at least about 80 90 of the hydrogen atoms have been replaced by fluorine atoms. However, it is preferred that at least 95 of the hydrogen atoms have been replaced, more preferably at least 98 and even more preferably, 100 .In the aforementioned U.S. patents 3,911,138 and 4,105,798, the ability to transport oxygen is related to the solubility in the materials of a gas such as oxygen. These patents suggest that the perfluorinated materials will absorb 10 100 cc of oxygen per 100 cc of material at 250C. and 760 milliliters of mercury. Among the fluorinated materials suitable for use in this invention include those which are broadly described as cyclic perfluorohydrocarbons or derivatives thereof. Examples are the perfluorinated derivatives of chemically inert Cg Cl8 polycyclic compounds such as bicyclononanes e.g., bicyclo 3.3.1 nonane, 2,6dimethylbicyclo 3.3.1 nonane, 3 methylbicyclo 3.3.1 nonane and trimethylbicyclo 3.3.1 nonane adamantane and alkyl C1 C6 adamantanes such as methyl and dimethyladamantane, ethyl and diethyladamantane, trimethyladamantane, ethylmethyladamantane, ethyldimethyladamantane and triethyladamantane methyldiadamantane and trimethyldiadamantane methyl and dimethylbicyclooctanes tetrahydrobinor S, pinane, camphane, decalin and alkyl decalins such as 1 methyl decalin and 1,4,6,9 dimethanodecalin bicyclo 4.3.2 undecane, bicyclo 5.3.0 decane, bicyclo 2.2.1 octane, tricyclo 5.2.1.02.6 decane, metyltricyclo 5.2.1.02.6 decane, and the like or any mixtures thereof. Hetero atom containing perfluoro compounds include F tributyl amine, F tripropyl amine and F N,Ndimethylcyclohexylmethylamine perfluoro ethers such asF 2 butyltetrahydrofuran, F 2 butylfuran, F hydrofuran, the 1,2,2,2 tetrafluoromethyl ether of F 2,5,8 trimethyl 3,6,9 trioxa 1 dodecanol , and other hetero compounds such as F N methyldecahydroquinoline, F l methyloctahydroquinolizine, F oct ahydroquinolidine and F N cyclohexylpyrrolidine. Aromatic and aliphatic compounds includeF naphthalene, F 1 methyl naphthalene, F n methylmorpholine, F n heptane, F dodecane and 1,2 bis nonyl fluorobutylethylene. Monocyclic aliphatic compounds include F trimethylcyc lohexane, F isopropylcyclohexane, F tetramethylcyclohexane, F n butylcyclohexane,F 1 methyl 4 isopropylcyclohexane,F p diisopropylcyclohexane and similar compounds. Certain of the fluorine atoms of the foregoing materials may be substituted by other halogen atoms such as bromine. Included among these compounds, are, for example, monobrominated compounds such as l bromopentadecafluoro 4 isopropylcyclohexane, l bromotridecafluorohexane, l bromo pentadecafluorooctane, l bromo pentadecafluoro 3 isopropylcyclopentane and perfluoro l bromobutylisopropyl ether, or polybrominated derivatives thereof. Perfluorinated C8 or lower materials and up to C1s or higher materials, included partially brominated analogs thereof, as well as mixtures of various different perfluoro compounds can be used in this invention. Those of the foregoing fluorinated compounds which are solid at ambient temperature can be dissolved in a suitable solvent or in other perfluoro compounds which are liquid at ambient temperatures, and the result ing mixture can be used to form the dispersions of the invention. Liquid in this specification when describing the fluoro compounds therefore means either a fluoro compound which is per se liquid at ambient temperatures or a solution of a solid fluoro compound in a fluoro compound solvent. The more preferred perfluoro compounds for use in the invention on the basis of relative inertness chemical and biological , good dispersability and residence time are the perfluoro Cg Cl8 polycyclic hydrocarbons of U.S. patent 4,105,798, and particularlyF dimethyladamantane, F trimethylbicyclo 3.3.1 nonane,F tricyclo 5.2.1.02 6 decane, F methyltricyclo 5.2.1.02 6 decane, F bicyclo 5.2.0 decane andF methylbicyclo 5.2.01 decane, including any isomers thereof, and mixtures of such compounds, for example mixtures of F dimethyladamantane and F trimeEhylbicyclo 3.3.1 nonane, ranging from about 90 10 to 10 90 by weight. The preferred dispersants for uniformly dispersing the perfluoro compounds in an aqueous medium are the nonionic surfactants. In some compositions and systems of the invention, particularly those cases where the dispersions are used non systemically, such as in topical or local treatments, ionic or amphoteric surfactants may be used to disperse the perfluoro compounds.Because systemic treatments require careful attention to physiological acceptability of the compounds, such as isotonic character, ionic surfactants are less desirable, although it is possible to offset or moderate their ionic character by formulating the dispersions with electrolytes or other additives. Suitable non ionic surfactants include aliphatic materials such as oxyethylene or oxypropylene homopolymers or block copolymers of ethylene oxide and propylene oxide comprising a hydrophobic propylene oxide section combined with one or more hydrophilic ethylene oxide sections, for example the Pluronic trademark surfactants available from BASF Wyandotte, Inc.Less desirably, aromatic types may also be used, such as alkylphenoxypolyethoxy ethanols having alkyl groups of about 7 to 18 carbon atoms and 1 to 60 or more oxyethylene units, for example heptylphenoxypolyethoxyethanols, octylphenoxypolyethoxyethanols, methyloctylphenoxypolyethoxyethanols, nonylphenoxypo lyethoxyethano Is, ddEsylphenoxypolyethoxy ethanols, and the like polyethoxyethanol derivatives of methylene linked alkylphenols sulfur containing analogs of the foregoing ethylene oxide derivatives of long chain carboxylic acids, such as lauric, myristic, palmitic, oleic, and the like or mixtures of acids such as are found in tall oil containing 1 to 60 oxyethylene units per molecule and analogous ethylene oxide condensates of long chain or branched chain amines, such as dodecylamine, hexadecylamine, and octadecylamine, containing 1 to 60 oxyethylene groups. Naturally occurring emulsifiers or derivatives thereof are also useful. These include the alginates, cellulose derivatives such as methyl cellulose and carboxymethyl cellulose, water soluble gums such as gum arabic and gum tragacanth, the phospholipids such as lecithin and yolk phospholipid as described in U.S. Patent 4,397,870 Sloviter , and the sterols. Nonionic fluorine containing surfactants are particularly preferred. The fluorinated alkyl esters are one class of these surfactants, and are commercially available from 3M Company under the designationsFC 93, FC 95, FC 128, FC 143, FC 430 and FC 431. The more preferred nonionic, fluorine containing surfactants, from the standpoint of their exceptional ability to form dispersions which maintain a range of small particle size over substantial periods of time, of the order of 35 weeks to a year or more, even at room temperature, are the fluorinated amidoamine oxides described in U.S. patents 3,828,085 to Price et al, and 3,547,995 to Bartlett.These compounds may be generically described by the formula 1 EMI13.1 wherein Rf is a perfluoroalkyl radical of 1 to about 25 carbon atoms or a polyfluoroalkoxyalkyl radical wherein the alkoxy group may contain 3 to about 40 carbon atoms of which at least a major portion thereof are perfluorinated and the alkyl group may contain 2 to about 40 carbon atoms, fluorinated or unfluorinated, Y is hydrogen or alkyl of 1 to 6 carbon atoms R is an alkylene radical of the formula Cz H2z wherein z is an integer of 1 to 6 and Q is an aliphatic amine oxide radical of the formula EMI13.2 wherein R5 and R6 are each alkyl radicals of 1 to 6 carbon atoms or hydroxy terminated alkyl radicals of 2 to 6 carbon atoms. In all cases the alkoxy, alkyl and alkylene groups may be straight or branched chain. Preferred subclasses of the surfactants of the foregoing patents are those of the following formulas 2 and 3 EMI13.3 wherein n is at least 3 preferably 3 10 , x is at least 2 preferably 2 6 , y is at least 1 preferably 2 6 , and R1 and R2 independently are alkyl radicals containing 1 6 carbon atoms and EMI14.1 wherein n is at least 3 preferably 3 10 , z is at least 1 preferably 2 6 , and R1 and R2 independently are alkyl radicals containing 1 6 carbon atoms. Specific amidoamine oxides within the scope of formula 1 are described in Examples 1 6 of U.S.Patent 3,828,085, namely EMI14.2 To provide the initial dispersion, conventional ready made perfluoro compound dispersions may be supplied, or the dispersions may be prepared by blending the perfluoro compound and principal surfactant into water in any amounts and proportions which will provide uniform dispersions. Typical amounts are about 5 to 75 w v of perfluoro compound and about 1.0 to 15 w v of the surfactant, based on total volume of dispersion, i.e., 5 to 75 g. of perfluoro compound, and 1 to 15 g. of surfactant, per 100 ml. of total dispersion. Preferred amounts are about 5 25 w v of the perfluoro compound and about 2 10 w v of the surfactant, on the same basis. However, the invention now permits, as standard practice, the preparation of dispersion in which the perfluoro compound is initially present in the range of about 25 to 60 w v , and the principal sur factant is initially present at about 10 to 20 w v , preferably about 5 to 10 w v . The aqueous dispersions both initially and finally more usually comprise emulsion, preferably of the oil in water type but also including water inoil emulsions. In some cases the emulsions have a very fine particle size and appear transparent or solutionlike to the unaided eye. The microemulsions which can be formulated with the dispersants of U.S. patent 3,828,085 have this characteristic and are preferred.Colloidal suspensions, while not excluded from use in this invention, are less preferred, particularly for systemic administration, because of their larger particle size range and lower stability. The mixture of perfluoro compound, water and surfactant is dispersed by any conventional means of agitation, for example, by hand stirring, aeration, propeller agitation, turbine agitation, colloid milling, homogenizing, high frequency or ultrasonic oscillation sonication , and the like, including combinations of these techniques. In most instances emulsification is effective at ambient temperature. However, with some of the foregoing agitation means, excess heat may be generated during the formation of the emulsion and may be removed by known means, e.g., cooling jacket. The amount of mechanical energy input from the various agitation means can vary substantially depending on, for example, the amount of material being worked and the equipment used, Preferably, a coarse emulsion is first prepared with mild agitation, as in a Waring Blender.The emulsion is then transferred to a homogenizer for completion of the emulsification and formation of the initial dispersion. In the second step of preparing the dispersions of the invention, the perfluoro compound phase of the dispersion is concentrated to form a first phase catorising concentrated perflro compound containing particles with the complexed surfactant, and a second, aquerous phase. One method of concentration is high speed centrifugation, for example at about 10,000 to 20,000 mm, for about 0.5 to 3 hours. The selection of speed and the duration of centrifugation will depend on the type and proportion of perfluoro compound in the dispersion the less dense or the less the amount of perfluoro compound, the greater the speed .In some batch centrifugations the result is a clear, supernatant liquid layer which rises to the top and a perfluoro compound containing layer which falls to the bottom of the vessel. Cross flow filtration described below also provides a commercially proven technique which can be adapted to continuous concentration of the perfluoro compound phase. In the light of the present specification, a person skilled in the art can select conditions which will produce the desired extent of concentration of the perfluoro compound phase. Preferably, the concentration will be such that at least about 50 by weight of the surfactant originally in the dispersion is removed into the aqueous phase. Preferably not more than about 90 to 95 by weight of the surfactant is removed. The limits of the extent of surfactant removal will depend on the charactherictics of the particular dispersion involved in a given instance, but can be determined by a person skilled in the art in the light of the present specification. In any event, the degree of concentration is not so great as to break the dispersion or to adversely affect the ability of the concentrated emulsion to be redispersed in added water in the third step of the process of the invention. In the third step of the process, the two phases are physically separated, by decanting or similar means, thus removing the concentrabed perfluoro compound phase from the aqueous phase containing free surfactant. The foregoing description of the second and third steps is a sequential concentration and separation process. These steps may also be effected simultaneously by microfiltration also known as ultrafiltration .Dispersions of this invention have particle sizes in the range of from about 0.05 to about 10 microns and therefore microfiltration may be a practical method of simultaneously concentrating the emulsion to form the concentrated perfluoro compound phase and separating such phase from the aqueous phase. Suitable microfiltration membranes include products available from the Millipore Company and Amicon Corporation as described for example, in U.S. patents 3,615,024 and 3,856,569.In microfiltration, the dispersion is supplied to one side of a membrane and a pressure differential is applied across the membrane, so that a portion of the dispersion the aqueous phase passes through the membrane. The portion remaining on the supply side of the membrane is the perfluoro compound phase. Pressure or vacuum filtering or decantation can be used in conjunction with microfiltration, if desired. Pressure filtration is preferred over vacuum filtration due to a tendency to foaming during vacuum filtration. In the last step of preparing the dispersions of the invention, the separated, concentrated perfluoro compound phase material, comprising perfluoro compound particles containing a small, residual amount of surfactant complexed therewith, is agitated in an aqueous medium such as distilled or sterilized water to redisperse the material. Conventional agitation or mixing means and conditions are employed. The amount of perfluoro compound in the final dispersion preferably will be about 20 75 w v and the amount of principal surfactant preferably will be about 0.1 3.0 w v .The final dispersions intended for internal therapeutic use typically will have an average particle size of from about 0.05 to about 0.6 micron, and preferably will maintain an average particle size of less than 0.3 micron e.g., 0.1 to 0.28 microns for long periods, of the order of 35 weeks or more, at room temperature, thus indicating good stability. Cross flow filtration can be used to continuously reduce the concentration of undesired surfactant in the aqueous phase of an initial dispersion and to form a final dispersion having a desired concentration of perfluoro compound material. In this method, an aqueous medium not containing the surfactant it is desired to remove is added intermittently or continuously to a filtration vessel charged with initial perfluoro compound dispersion. As the filtration proceeds with concentration and separation of the perfluoro compound phase of the dispersion, the aqueous medium which is added replaces or washes out the aqueous phase of the initial dispersion.This results in controlled dilution of the aqueous phase of the initial dispersion, such that water containing undesired surfactant is removed and the concentration of undesired surfactant in the remaining aqueous phase is substantially reduced or eliminated. Also, a desired concentration of perfluoro compound phase material is obtained. Optionally, a non toxic auxiliary surfactant such as lecithin or yolk phospholipid may be added to the aqueous medium prior to the redispersion or may be added during or after the redispersion to further promote the redispersion. From about 0.1 to about 5 w v of such surfactant may be useful. Other agents may be added as desired during the redispersion in place of or in addition to the auxiliary surfactant, such as coupling agents, cryogenic agents and the like.The resultant dispersion may be milky or transparent, depending on the perfluoro compound, surfactants and proportions, and the other additives. The foregoing process for preparing dispersions according to the invention can be modified to collect, screen or classify the particles comprising the concentrated, perfluoro compound phase in order to assist in obtaining a desired particle size range in the final dispersion. Commercial centrifugation systems developed for recovery and concentration of antibiotics, protein molecules or viruses, for example, are readily adaptable to separation and or classification of the perfluoro compound containing particles of the invention and to removal of uncomplexed surfactant. The high density of the particles as compared to the aqueous phase of the dispersions makes such systems well suited to practice of the invention. Moreover, the separation or classification may be practiced batch wise or continuously, depending on the type of centrifugation apparatus. For example, the De Laval countercurrent separator comprising a cylinder spinning on its vertical axis and having apertures radially spaced apart on a horizontal cover plate on the upper end, may receive initial dispersion through the lower end. The dispersion will rise in the cylinder over the interior wall and the particles are then classified through the apertures of the plate into a plurality of streams such that desired, fine particles can be segregated from undesired, coarse particles. Simultaneously, aqueous medium containing uncomplexed surfactant is withdrawn. Further classification can be practiced on any of the streams or any of the streams can be sent to a redispersion station for preparation of the final dispersion. A tubular bowl centrifuge permits not only classification in the manner of the cy h dricalcentrifuge described above but also will permit continuous concentration of the perfluoro compound phase, separation and redispersion.In this system, the initial dispersion is admitted near the lowest point of a rotating bowl. The perfluoro compound phase then separates from the aqueous phase and divides into several zones over the interior wall of the bowl according to particle size. Perfluoro compound particles of desired sizes containing complexed surfactant may then be harvested and sent to redispersion while off size particles may be discarded or recycled for repeat of initial dispersion. The aqueous phase containing free surfactant separated from the initial dispersion may be discarded, recovered or recycled for initial dispersion of perfluoro compound. It is also practical by application of other known systems to avoid a total separation of the perfluoro compound phase from the aqueous phase of the initial dispersion, and to continuously form the final dispersion. One such technique is countercurrent centrifugal chromatography. In this process, the initial dispersion is continuously concentrated and classified according to desired particle size ranges, while aqueous medium containing free principal surfactant is drawn off, and aqueous medium with or without an auxiliary surfactant is added for the redispersion. The foregoing and other techniques for practicing the process of the invention in a batch, continuous or semi continuous manner are described in the technical literature such as in Handbook of Separation T3SCSXPES for Chemical Engineers, Schweitzer, P.A., Ed.,McGraw Hill Book Co., New York, 1975, specificallySection 4.5 entitled Centrifugation . When finally formulating the dispersions of the invention for systemic administration, it is desirable to add electrolytes and other materials to render the dispersions physiologically acceptable such as isotonic with mammalian cells , and to adjust the pH, as necessary.A suitable pH range is 7.2 7.4. Among the additives conventionally used to render fluids physiologically acceptable are buffers such as sodium bicarbonate and mixtures such as Ringer s Solution. Other materials conventionally employed in pharmaceutical preparations and known to the skilled formulator may also be added to the dispersions. These include viscosity modifiers, stabilizers against degradation due to freezing or contamination, for example , cryogenic preservatives, diluents, encoding agents, and the like. Among such additives may be mentioned glycerin, dimethylsulfoxide, various gelatins both natural and synthetic, and polyols sucks as sorbitol. Induing dispersions of the invention for drug delivery, the drug if sufficiently lipophilic may be admixed with the perfluoro compound in desired proportions. This mixture can then be used to form the initial perfluoro compound dispersion, which is then processed to the final perfluoro compound dispersion in accordance with the method of the invention. Alternative ly the drug may be added in a desired amount to the concentrated perfluoro compound phase resulting from the concentration and separation steps of the invention, followed by the redispersion step to form a final dispersion containing the drug. As a third approach, the drug may be added to the final perfluoro compound dispersion in the requisite amount. The lipophilicity of the drug relative to the perfluoro compound material is an important consideration for selection of drugs for effective delivery, the more lipophilic the drug, the more successful will be the delivery, as described in the aforementioned European Patent Publication A 105584. The invention is further described and illustrated in the following examples. EXAMPLE 1 An initial emulsion was prepared in a conventional manner U.S. Patent 4,105,798 by dissolvingPluronic F 68 polyoxyethylenepolyoxypropylene copolymer surfactant molecular weight about 8200 in distilled water to a concentration of 4.375 w v and then adding to the solution to a concentration of 25 w v a purified perfluorocarbon perfluoro compound consisting of a liquid mixture about 80 20 by weight of F 1,3dimethyladamantane and F trimethylbicyclo 3.3.1 nonane.The resulting composition is first admixed in a WaringBlender to form a crude dispersion which is then transferred to a Mantin Gaulin homogenizer and admixed to form a stable, uniform, clear emulsion. Equal amounts of the emulsion were added to the first and second tubes of a two tube laboratory centrifuge and spun for 30 minutes at 12,500 RPM and relative centrifugal force maximum g s of 20,000 to concentrate the perfluoro compound phase. Each sample separated into a top supernatant phase and a bottom gelatinous perfluoro compound phase of which, in the first tube, 28.7 g. was supernatant and 15.4 g. was gel and, in the second tube, 28.5 g. was supernatant and 15.5 g. was gel. The two phases of each tube were separated by decanting and both supernatants were found to have a density of 1.0148 indicating that of the original 25 perfluoro compound, 23.9 was in the gel and only 1.1 was in the supernatant.The gel from the second tube was shaken with 41 ml. of distilled water and was found to disperse well to a substantially transparent emulsion containing 20 w v of the perfluoro compound by GC analysis . Particle size analysis with laser spectroscopy indicated a mean average particle size of 0.17 micron. The emulsion remained clear and stable after 104 days storage at 50C. average . At the end of that time, the average particle size was 0.24 micron. Since the bulk of the initially formed emulsion upon centrifugation and separation was a liquid material which was not used for the redispersion, most of the original surfactant was not present in the redispersed emulsion however, a small but sufficient amount had remained with the perfluoro compound phase to enable the perfluoro compound material to redisperse when shaken with the distilled water. Accordingly, the final dis persion contained a greatly reduced amount of the surfactant as compared with the amount present in the original emulsion, but essentially all of the surfactant in the final emulsion remained complexed with the perfluoro compound particles and only a minute amount, if any, transferred into the continuous phase. EXAMPLE 2 In another experiment, conducted essentially as described in Example 1, an initial, conventionally prepared, stable and uniform emulsion containing 25 w v of the same perfluoro compound, 4.357 w v of the same surfactant and 1.25 w v of glycerin as a cryogenic agent was found to have a viscosity of 2.5 centipoise at room temçerature and a uiean average pLfEicle size of 0.11 micron with less than 1 of the particles exceeding 0.3 micron. The emulsion was centrifuged at 3500 RPM for 6.1 hours at 3100 relative centrifugal force maximum g s force of gravity whereupon the two phases separated into a supernatant top layer and a gelatinous perfluoro compound bottom layer.The gel was separated from the supernatant and portions of the gel were redispersed in amounts of distilled water sufficient to provide two final emulsions, an emulsion A containing 25 w v of the perfluoro compound and 1.9 w v of the surfactant, and an emulsion B containing 50 w v of the perfluoro compound and 3.4 w v of the surfactant The reduced amount of surfactant in the final emulsions relative to perfluoro compound concentration indicated that the bulk of the surfactant present in the initially formed dispersion had been removed with the supernatants. The final emulsions were clear, uniform and stable. Emulsion A had a viscosity of 1.3 centistokes. Emulsion B had a viscosity of 3.1 centistokes.From a plot of viscosity versus perfluoro compound concentration of the initial and final emulsions it was determined that an emulsion prepared in accordance with the invention could contain up to about 42.7 w v of the perfluoro compound without an increase in viscosity as compared with the initial emulsion. This example thus demonstrates the ability, in accordance with the invention, to substantially reduce the concentration of surfactant while providing, at an acceptable viscosity, a higher concentration of perfluoro compound than was heretofore deemed possible, without diminishing the uniformity, clarity and stability of the emulsion. EXAMPLE 3 A series of experiments was conducted to study particle size, viscosity and stability of reconstituted emulsions prepared in accordance with the invention relative to perfluoro compound and surfactant concentrations as compared with conventionally prepared emulsions. The perfluoro compound and surfactant components were the same as in Example 2. Any differences in concentrations of the components and test conditions are shown in Table I below together with the test results wherein PFC means perfluoro compound. Runs 1, 4 and 5 comprise the experiment of Example 2. Run 10 is the experiment of Example 1. Runs 1 3 are controls, i.e., initial, conventionally prepared, stable emulsions which were not centrifuged as were the emulsions used to prepare the reconstituted emulsions of runs 4 10.The reconstituted emulsions of runs 4 9 were prepared as described in Example 2, i.e., by centrifuging samples of the control emulsion of run 1, separating the resulting gel and supernatant layers, and redispersing the gels in amounts of distilled water sufficient to provide the indicated perfluoro compound concentrations. The surfactant owKrntratiDns were calculated as differences between the initially known concentrations and concentrations in the separated supernatant solutions. Initial surfactant concentrations and perfluoro compound concentrations were determined by density and chromato graphic analysis for the perfluoro compounds. The results show that stable, low viscosity emulsions can be effectively prepared in accordance with the invention to contain substantially greater concentrations of perfluoro compound and lower concentrations of surfactant than were achievable in the past.Consequently, the emulsions will have greater capacity for gas transfer but with reduced toxicity due to surfactant, and therefore, will provide substantially improved therapeutic benefits. TABLE I EMI26.1 SEP Gel SEP Emulsion SEP Centi SEP Concentrations, SEP W V SEP Supernatant SEP Disper SEP Particle tb RUN SEP Refrig SEP Refrig SEP fuge SEP Centi SEP PFC SEP Glycerin SEP Sur SEP Density, SEP sion SEP Size, tb SEP eration, SEP eration, SEP Speed, SEP fuge SEP factant SEP g cc SEP Visco SEP Vol.Avg., tb SEP Days SEP Days SEP RPM SEP Time, SEP sity, SEP micron tb SEP 5 C., SEP 5 C., SEP hrs. SEP CPS tb SEP avg. SEP avg. tb Controls tb 1 SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP SEP 25 SEP 1.25 SEP 4.375 SEP 1.1289 SEP 2.5 SEP 0.11 tb 2 SEP SEP 1 SEP SEP SEP 25 SEP 1.25 SEP 4.375 SEP 1.1289 SEP 2.5 SEP 0.11 tb 3 SEP SEP 8 SEP SEP SEP 25 SEP 1.25 SEP 4.375 SEP 1.1289 SEP 0.135 tb 4 SEP 7 SEP 1 SEP 3500 SEP 6.1 SEP 25 SEP 0.24 SEP 1.9 SEP 1.1249 SEP 1.3 SEP 0.145 tb 5 SEP 7 SEP 1 SEP 3500 SEP 6.1 SEP 50 SEP 0.48 SEP 3.4 SEP 1.2520 SEP 3.1 SEP 0.147 SEP 3.1 SEP 0.147 tb 6 SEP 7 SEP 8 SEP 3500 SEP 6.1 SEP 25 SEP 0.24 SEP 1.9 SEP 1.1249 SEP 0.185 tb 7 SEP 7 SEP 8 SEP 3500 SEP 6.1 SEP 50 SEP 0.48 SEP 3.4 SEP 1.2520 SEP 0.260 tb 8 SEP 21 SEP 1 SEP 3500 SEP 6.1 SEP 25 SEP 0.195 tb 9 SEP 7 SEP 15 SEP 3500 SEP 6.1 SEP 25 SEP 0.24 SEP 1.9 SEP 1.1249 SEP 0.185 tb 10 SEP 1 SEP 104 SEP 12,500 SEP 0.5 SEP 25 SEP 1.0148 SEP 0.240 tb Not refrigerated maintainel at room temperature. Lourdes Angle Head Tabletop centrifuge operating at 20,000relative centrfugal force RFC maximum g s. All other centrifugation were with a DPR 6000 Swinging Buket Head centrifuge, International Equipment Company, operating at 3100 relative centrifugal force maximum g s.