# MOLECULAR SIEVE COMPOSITIONS

## Claims
Kristalline Molekularsiebe mit einer dreidimensionalen mikroporösen Gerüststruktur aus MO₂, AlO₂ und PO₂ Tetraeder Einheiten mit einer empirischen chemischen Zusammensetzung auf wasserfreier Basis, ausgedrückt durch die Formel

## Description
The instant invention relates to a novel class of crystalline microporous molecular sieves, to the method of their preparation and to their use as adsorbents and catalyst. The invention relates to novel molecular sieves having at least three elements, as hereinafter defined, present as framework as tetrahedral oxide units. These compositions may be prepared hydrothermally from gels containing reactive compounds of aluminum and phosphorus and at least one additional element, as hereinafter set forth, capable of forming a framework tetrahedral oxide, and preferably by use of at least one organic templating agent which functions in part to determine the course of the crystallization mechanism and the structure of the crystalline product. Molecular sieves of the crystalline aluminosilicate zeolite type are well known in the art and now comprise over 150 species of both naturally occurring and synthetic compositions. In general the crystalline zeolites are formed from corner sharing AlO₂ and SiO₂ tetrahedra and are characterized by having pore openings of uniform dimensions, having a significant ion exchange capacity and being capable of reversibly desorbing an adsorbed phase which is dispersed throughout the internal voids of the crystal without displacing any atoms which make up the permanent crystal structure. Other crystalline microporous compositions which are not zeolitic, i.e. do not contain only AlO₂ and SiO₂ tetrahedra as essential framework constituents, but which exhibit the ion exchange and or adsorption characteristics of the zeolites are also known. Metal organosilicates which are said to possess ion exchange properties, have uniform pores and be capable of reversibly adsorbing molecules having molecular diameters of about 0,6nm 6Å or less, are reported in U.S. Patent No. 3,941,871 issued March 2, 1976 to Dwyer et al. A pure silica polymorph, silicalite, having molecular sieving properties and a neutral framework containing neither cations nor cation sites is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,061,724 issued December 6, 1977 to R.W. Grose et al. A recently reported class of microporous compositions and the first framework oxide molecular sieves synthesized without silica, are the crystalline aluminophosphate compositions disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,310,440 issued January 12, 1982 to Wilson et al. These materials are formed from AlO₂ and PO₂ tetrahedra and have electrovalently neutral frameworks as in the case of silica polymorphs. Unlike the silica molecular sieve, silicalite, which is hydrophobic due to the absence of extra structural cations, the aluminophosphate molecular sieves are moderately hydrophilic, apparently due to the difference in electronegativity between aluminum and phosphorus. Their intracrystalline pore volumes and pore diameters are comparable to those known for zeolites and silica molecular sieves. In copending and commonly assigned EP A 103 117, there is described a novel class of silicon substituted aluminophosphates which are both microporous and crystalline. The materials have a three dimensional crystal framework of PO 2, AlO 2 and SiO₂ tetrahedral units and, exclusive of any alkali metal or calcium which may optionally be present, an as synthesized empirical chemical composition on an anhydrous basis of In copending and commonly assigned EP A 121 232, there is described a novel class of titanium containing molecular sieves whose chemical composition in the as synthesized and anhydrous form is represented by the unit empirical formula In copending and commonly assigned EP A 132 708, there is described a novel class of crystalline metal aluminophosphates having three dimensional microporous framework structures of MO₂, AlO₂ and PO₂ tetrahedral units and having an empirical chemical composition on an anhydrous basis expressed by the formula In copending and commonly assigned EP A 131 946, there is described a novel class of crystalline ferroaluminophosphates having a three dimensional microporous framework structure of FeO₂, AlO₂ and PO₂ tetrahedral units and having an empirical chemical composition on a anhydrous basis expressed by the formula The instant invention relates to new molecular sieve compositions comprising at least one element, as hereinafter discussed, capable of forming a framework tetrahedral units with AlO 2 and PO 2 tetrahedral units. FIG. 1 is a ternary diagram wherein parameters relating to the instant compositions are set forth as mole fractions. FIG. 2 is a ternary diagram wherein parameters relating to preferred compositions are set forth as mole fractions. FIG. 3 is a ternary diagram wherein parameters relating to the reaction mixtures employed in the preparation of the compositions of this invention are set forth as mole fractions. The instant invention relates to a new class of crystalline molecular sieves in which at least one element in addition to aluminum and phosphorus, as hereinafter defined, capable of forming a three dimensional microporous framework of framework tetrahedral oxides to form a framework structure of AlO 2, PO 2 and MO n 2 tetrahedral units wherein M represents at least one different element present as tetrahedral units with charge n where n may be 3, 2, 1, 0 or 1. These new molecular sieves exhibit ion exchange, adsorption and catalytic properties and, accordingly, find wide use as adsorbents and catalysts. The members of this novel class of compositions have crystal framework structures of AlO 2, PO 2 and tetrahedral units and have an empirical chemical composition on an anhydrous basis expressed by the formula The molecular sieves of the instant invention will be generally referred to herein by the acronym FCAPO to designate elements M in a framework of AlO 2, PO 2 and MO n 2 tetrahedral oxide units. The acronym FCAPO denotes Framework Constituents of elements M in a framework of aluminum and phosphorus where such are all present as framework tetrahedral oxides. Actual class members will be identified by replacing the FC of the acronym with the element or elements present as MO n 2 tetrahedral units. For example, GeBeAPO designates a molecular sieve comprised of AlO 2, PO 2, GeO₂ and BeO 2 2 tetrahedral units. The instant invention relates to a new class of crystalline molecular sieves in which at least one element capable of forming framework tetrahedral oxides are provided to form a three dimensional microporous framework structures of AlO 2, PO 2 and MO n 2 tetrahedra The FCAPO compositions are formed by forming a framework tetrahedral unit MO n 2 in the presence of AlO 2 and PO 2 tetrahedral units where M is at least one element selected from the group consisting of arsenic, beryllium, boron, chromium, gallium, germanium, lithium and vanadium. In one embodiment the FCAPO compositions contain at least two of the aforementioned elements as MO n 2 framework tetrahedral units. The relative amounts of elements M , aluminum and phosphorus are expressed by the empirical chemical formula anhydrous The molecular sieves of the instant invention comprise a framework structure of MO n 2, AlO 2 and PO 2 tetrahedral units where n is 3, 2, 1, 0 or 1 and have an empirical chemical composition on an anhydrous basis expressed by the formula In a preferred subclass of the FCAPO molecular sieves the values of x , y and z in the above formula are within the hexagonal compositional area defined by points a, b, c, d, e and f of the ternary diagram which is FIG. 2 of the drawings, said points a, b, c, d, e and f representing the following values for x , y and z The FCAPOs of this invention are useful as adsorbents, catalysts, ion exchangers, and the like in much the same fashion as aluminosilicates have been employed heretofore, although their chemical and physical properties are not necessarily similar to those observed for aluminosilicates. FCAPO compositions are generally synthesized by hydrothermal crystallization from a reaction mixture containing active sources of elements M , aluminum and phosphorus, preferably an organic templating, i.e., structure directing, agent, preferably a compound of an element of Group VA of the Periodic Table, and or optionally an alkali or other metal. The reaction mixture is generally placed in a sealed pressure vessel, preferably lined with an inert plastic material such as polytetrafluoroethylene and heated, preferably under autogenous pressure at a temperature between 50 C and 250 C, and preferably between 100 C and 200 C until crystals of the FCAPO product are obtained, usually a period of from several hours to several weeks. Typical crystallization times are from about 2 hours to about 30 days with from about 4 hours to about 20 days being generally employed to obtain FCAPO products. The product is recovered by any convenient method such as centrifugation or filtration. In synthesizing the FCAPO compositions of the instant invention, it is preferred to employ a reaction mixture composition expressed in terms of the molar ratios as follows The mole fractions x , y and z in the reaction mixture are preferably within the pentagonal compositional area defined by points F, G, H, I and J which is shown in FIG. 3 of the drawings, where points F, G, H, I and J have the following values for x , y and z In the foregoing expression of the reaction composition, the reactants are normalized with respect to the total of x y z 1.00 mole, whereas in the examples the reaction mixtures are expressed in terms of the molar oxide ratios and may be normalized to 1.00 mole of P₂O₅. This latter form is readily converted to the former by routine calculations by dividing the total number of moles of M, aluminum and phosphorus into the moles of each of the elements M , aluminum and phosphorus. The moles of template and water are similarly normalized by dividing by the total moles of M, aluminum and phosphorus. In forming the reaction mixture from which the instant molecular sieves are formed the organic templating agent can be any of those heretofore proposed for use in the synthesis of conventional zeolite aluminosilicates. In general these compounds contain elements of Group VA of the Periodic Table of Elements, particularly nitrogen, phosphorus, arsenic and antimony, preferably nitrogen or phosphorus and most preferably nitrogen, which compounds also contain at least one alkyl or aryl group having from 1 to 8 carbon atoms. Particularly preferred compounds for use as templating agents are the amines, quaternary phosphonium compounds, and quaternary ammonium compounds, the latter two being represented generally by the formula R₄X , where X is nitrogen or phosphorus and wherein each R is an alkyl or aryl group containing from 1 to 8 carbon atoms. Polymeric quaternary ammonium salts such as C₁₄H₃₂N₂ OH ₂ The preferred phosphorus source for the present process is phosphoric acid, but organic phosphates such as triethyl phosphate have been found satisfactory, and so also have crystalline or amorphous aluminophosphates such as the AlPO₄ composition of U.S.P. 4,310,440. Organo phosphorus compounds, such as tetrabutylphosphonium bromide do not, apparently, serve as reactive sources of phosphorus, but these compounds may function as templating agents. Conventional phosphorus salts such as sodium metaphosphate, may be used, at least in part, as the phosphorus source, but are not preferred. The preferred aluminum source is either an aluminum alkoxide, such as aluminum isoproperoxide, or pseudo boehmite. The crystalline or amorphous aluminophosphates which are a suitable source of phosphorus are, of course, also suitable sources of aluminum. Other sources of aluminum used in zeolite synthesis, such as gibbsite, sodium aluminate and aluminum trichloride, can be employed but are not preferred. The elements arsenic, beryllium, boron, chromium, gallium, germanium, lithium and vanadium can be introduced into the reaction system in any form which permits the formation While not essential to the synthesis of FCAPO compositions, stirring or other moderate agitation of the reaction mixture and or seeding the reaction mixture with seed crystals of either the FCAPO species to be produced or a topologically similar aluminophosphate, aluminosilicate or molecular sieve composition, facilitates the crystallization procedure. After crystallization the FCAPO product may be isolated and advantageously washed with water and dried in air. The as synthesized FCAPO generally contains within its internal pore system at least one form of the templating agent employed in its formation. Most commonly the organic moiety is present, at least in part, as a charge balancing cation as is generally the case with as synthesized aluminosilicate zeolites prepared from organic containing reaction systems. It is possible, however, that some or all of the organic moiety is an occluded molecular species in a particular FCAPO species. As a general rule the templating agent, and hence the occluded organic species, is too large to move freely through the pore system of the FCAPO product and must be removed by calcining the FCAPO at temperatures of 200 C to 700 C to thermally degrade the organic species. In a few instances the pores of the FCAPO product are sufficiently large to permit transport of the templating agent, particularly if the latter is a small molecule, and accordingly complete or partial removal thereof can be accomplished by conventional desorption procedures such as carried out in the case of zeolites. It will be understood that the term as synthesized as used herein does not include the condition of the FCAPO phase wherein the organic moiety occupying the intracrystalline pore system as a result of the hydrothermal crystallization process has been reduced by post synthesis treatment such that the value of m in the composition formula Since the present FCAPO compositions are formed from MO n 2, AlO₂, and PO₂ tetrahedral units which, respectively, have a net charge of n , 1 and 1, where n is 3, 2, 1, 0 or 1, the matter of cation exchangeability is considerably more complicated than in the case of zeolitic molecular sieves in which, ideally, there is a stoichiometric relationship between AlO 2 tetrahedra and charge balancing cations. In the instant compositions, an AlO 2 tetrahedron can be balanced electrically either by association with a PO 2 tetrahedron or a simple cation such as an alkali metal cation, a proton H , a cation of M present in the reaction mixture, or an organic cation derived from the templating agent. Similarly a MO n 2 tetrahedron can be balanced electrically by association with PO 2 or AlO 2 tetrahedra, a cation of M present in the reaction mixture, a simple cation unless such as an alkali metal cation, a proton H , organic cations derived from the templating agent, or other divalent or polyvalent metal anions or cations introduced from an extraneous source. It has also been postulated that non adjacent AlO 2 and PO 2 tetrahedral pairs can be balanced by Na and OH respectively Flanigen and Grose, Molecular Sieve Zeolites I, ACS, Washington, DC 1971 . The FCAPO compositions of the present invention may exhibit cation exchange capacity when analyzed using ion exchange techniques heretofore employed with zeolitic aluminosilicates and have pore diameters which are inherent in the lattice structure of each species and which are at least about 3Å in diameter. Ion exchange of FCAPO compositions is ordinarily possible only after the organic moiety derived from the template, present as a result of synthesis, has been removed from the pore system. Dehydration to remove water present in the as synthesized FCAPO compositions can usually be accomplished, to some degree at least, in the usual manner without removal of the organic moiety, but the absence of the organic species greatly facilitates adsorption and desorption procedures. As illustrated hereinafter, the FCAPO materials have various degrees of hydrothermal and thermal stability, some being quite remarkable in this regard, and function well as molecular sieve adsorbents and hydrocarbon conversion catalysts or catalyst bases. In preparing the FCAPO compositions it is preferred to use a stainless steel reaction vessel utilized lined with an inert plastic material, polytetrafluoroethylene, to avoid contamination of the reaction mixture. In general, the final reaction mixture from which each FCAPO composition is crystallized is prepared by forming mixtures of less than all of the reagents and thereafter incorporating into these mixtures additional reagents either singly or in the form of other intermediate mixtures of two or more reagents. In some instances the reagents admixed retain their identity in the intermediate mixture and in other cases some or all of the reagents are involved in chemical reactions to produce new reagents. The term mixture is applied in both cases. Further, unless otherwise specified, each intermediate mixture as well as the final reaction mixture was stirred until substantially homogeneous. X ray patterns of reaction products are obtained by X ray analysis using standard X ray powder diffraction techniques. The radiation source is a high intensity, copper target, X ray tube operated at 50 kV and 40 mA. The diffraction pattern from the copper K alpha radiation and graphite monochromator is suitably recorded by an X ray spectrometer scintillation counter, pulse height analyzer and strip chart recorder. Flat compressed powder samples are scanned at 2 2 theta per minute, using a two second time constant. Interplanar spacings d in Angstrom units are obtained from the position of the diffraction peaks expressed as 2ϑ where ϑ is the Bragg angle as observed on the strip chart. Intensities are determined from the heights of diffraction peaks after subtracting background, I As will be understood by those skilled in the art the determination of the parameter 2 theta is subject to both human and mechanical error, which in combination, can impose an uncertainty of about 0.4 on each reported value of 2 theta. This uncertainty is, of course, also manifested in the reported values of the d spacings, which are calculated from the 2 theta values. This imprecision is general throughout the art and is not sufficient to preclude the differentiation of the present crystalline materials from each other and from the compositions of the prior art. In some of the X ray patterns reported, the relative intensities of the d spacings are indicated by the notations vs, s, m, w and vw which represent very strong, strong, medium, weak and very weak respectively. In certain instances, the purity of a synthesized product may be assessed with reference to its X ray powder diffraction pattern. Thus, for example, if a sample is stated to be pure, it is intended only that the X ray pattern of the sample is free of lines attributable to crystalline impurities, not that there are no amorphous materials present. The molecular sieves of the instant invention may be characterized by their x ray powder diffraction patterns and such may have one of the x ray patterns set forth in the following Tables A through V, wherein said x ray patterns are for both the as synthesized and calcined forms unless otherwise noted The following examples are provided to further illustrate the invention and are not intended to be limiting thereof The pore diameter of AsAPO 5 is greater than 0,62 nm 6.2 Å . The pore diameter of AsAPO 11 is about 0,6 nm 6Å . The pore diameter of BAPO 5 is greater than 0,62 nm 6.2 Å . The pore diameter of BAPO 11 is about 0,6 nm 6Å . The pore diameter of BeAPO 5 is greater than 0,62 nm 6.2 Å . The pore diameter of BeAPO 17 is about 0,43 nm 4.3 Å . The pore diameter of CAPO 5 is greater than 0,62 nm 6.2 Å . The pore diameter of CAPO 31 is greater than about 0,6 nm 6.2 Å . The pore diameter of GaAPO 5 is greater than 0,62 nm 6.2 Å . The pore diameter of GaAPO 44 is about 0,43 nm 4.3Å . The pore diameter of GeAPO 5 is greater than 0,62 nm 6.2 Å . The pore diameter of GeAPO 34 is about 0,43 nm 4.3Å . The pore diameter of LiAPO 5 is greater than 0,62 nm 6.2 Å . The pore diameter of LiAPO 11 is about 0,6 nm 6Å . The pore diameter of VAPO 5 is greater than 0,62 nm 6.2 Å . The pore diameter of VAPO 11 is about 0.6 nm 6Å . The pore diameter of AsGaAPO 5 is greater than 0,62 nm 6.2 Å . The pore diameter of BeGeAPO 11 is about 0,6 nm 6Å . The pore diameter of CrGaAPO 17 is about 0,43 nm 4.3 Å . The pore diameter of AsBeAPO 31 is greater than about 0,62 nm 6.2 Å . The pore diameter of AsVBeAPO 34 is about 0,43 nm 4.3Å . The pore diameter of GeBAPO 44 is about 0,43 nm 4.3Å . The FCAPO compositions of the present invention are, in general, hydrophilic and adsorb water preferentially over common hydrocarbon molecules such as paraffins, olefins and aromatic species, e.g., benzene, xylenes and cumene. Thus, the present FCAPO compositions as a class are useful as desiccants in such adsorption separation purification processes as natural gas drying, cracked gas drying. Water is also preferentially adsorbed over the so called permanent gases such as carbon dioxide, nitrogen, oxygen and hydrogen. These FCAPOs are therefore suitably employed in the drying of reformer hydrogen streams and in the drying of oxygen, nitrogen or air prior to liquifaction. The present FCAPO compositions also exhibit novel surface selectivity characteristics which render them useful as catalyst or catalyst bases in a number of hydrocarbon conversion and oxidative combustion reactions. They can be impregnated or otherwise loaded with catalytically active metals by methods well known in the art and used, for example, in fabricating catalyst compositions having silica or alumina bases. Of the general class, those species having pores larger than about 0,4 nm 4Å are preferred for catalytic applications. Among the hydrocarbon conversion reactions catalyzed by FCAPO compositions are cracking, hydrocracking, alkylation for both the aromatic and isoparaffin types,isomerization including xylene isomerization, polymerization, reforming, hydrogenation, dehydrogenation, transalkylation, dealkylation, hydrodecyclization and dehydrocyclization. Using FCAPO catalyst compositions which contain a hydrogenation promoter such as platinum or palladium, heavy petroleum residual stocks, cyclic stocks and other hydrocrackable charge stocks, can be hydrocracked at temperatures in the range of 204 C 400 F to 441. C 825 F using molar ratios of hydrogen to hydrocarbon in the range of between 2 and 80, pressures between 1,7 and 242 bar 10 and 3500 p.s.i.g. , and a liquid hourly space velocity LHSV of from 0.1 to 20, preferably 1.0 to 10. The FCAPO catalyst compositions employed in hydrocracking are also suitable for use in reforming processes in which the hydrocarbon feedstocks contact the catalyst at temperatures of from about 371 C 700 F to 538 C 1000 F , hydrogen pressures of from 7,9 to 35,5 bar 100 to 500 p.s.i.g. , LHSV values in the range of 0.1 to 10 and hydrogen to hydrocarbon molar ratios in the range of 1 to 20, preferably between 4 and 12. These same catalysts, i.e. those containing hydrogenation promoters, are also useful in hydroisomerizations processes in which feedstocks such as normal paraffins are converted to saturated branched chain isomers. Hydroisomerization is carried out at a temperature of from about 93 C 200 F to 316 C 600 F , preferably 149 C 300 F to 288 C 550 F with an LHSV value of from about 0.2 to 1.0. Hydrogen is supplied to the reactor in admixture with the hydrocarbon feedstock in molar proportions hydrogen hydrocarbon of between 1 and 5. At somewhat higher temperatures, i.e. from about 343 C 650 F to 538 C 1000 F , preferably 454 C 850 F to 510 C 950 F and usually at somewhat lower pressures within the range of about 2 to 4,5 bar 15 to 50 p.s.i.g. , the same catalyst compositions are used to hydroisomerize normal paraffins. Preferably the paraffin feedstock comprises normal paraffins having a carbon number range of C₇ C₂₀. Contact time between the feedstock and the catalyst is generally relatively short to avoid undesirable side reactions such as olefin polymerization and paraffin cracking. LHSV values in the range of 0.1 to 10, preferably 1.0 to 6.0 are suitable. The unique crystal structure of the present FCAPO catalysts and their availability in a form totally void of alkali metal content favor their use in the conversion of alkylaromatic compounds, particularly the catalytic disproportionation of toluene, ethylene, trimethyl benzenes, tetramethyl benzenes and the like. In the disproportionation process, isomerization and transalkylation can also occur. Group VIII noble metal adjuvants alone or in conjunction with Group VI B metals such as tungsten, molybdenum and chromium are preferably included in the catalyst composition in amounts of from about 3 to 15 weight of the overall composition. Extraneous hydrogen can, but need not, be present in the reaction zone which is maintained at a temperature of from about 20,4 to 399 C 400 to 750 F , pressures in the range of 7,9 to 139 bar 100 to 2000 p.s.i.g. and LHSV values in the range of 0.1 to 15. Catalytic cracking processes are preferably carried out with FCAPO compositions using feedstocks such as gas oils, heavy naphthas, deasphalted crude oil residua, etc., with gasoline being the principal desired product. Temperature conditions of 454 to 593 C 850 to 1100 F , LHSV values of 0.5 to 10 and pressure conditions of from about 1 to 4,5 bar 0 to 50 p.s.i.g. are suitable. Dehydrocyclization reactions employing paraffinic hydrocarbon feedstocks, preferably normal paraffins having more than 6 carbon atoms, to form benzene, xylenes, toluene and the like are carried out using essentially the same reaction conditions as for catalytic cracking. For these reactions it is preferred to use the FCAPO catalyst in conjunction with a Group VIII non noble metal cation such as cobalt and nickel. In catalytic dealkylation wherein it is desired to cleave paraffinic side chains from aromatic nuclei without substantially hydrogenating the ring structure, relatively high temperatures in the range of about 427 C 538 C 800 1000 F are employed at moderate hydrogen pressures of about 22 70 bar 300 1000 p.s.i.g. , other conditions being similar to those described above for catalytic hydrocracking. Preferred catalysts are of the same type described above in connection with catalytic dehydrocyclization. Particularly desirable dealkylation reactions contemplated herein include the conversion of methylnaphthalene to naphthalene and toluene and or xylenes to benzene. In catalytic hydrofining, the primary objective is to promote the selective hydrodecomposition of organic sulfur and or nitrogen compounds in the feed, without substantially affecting hydrocarbon molecules therein. For this purpose it is preferred to employ the same general conditions described above for catalytic hydrocracking, and catalysts of the same general nature described in connection with dehydrocyclization operations. Feedstocks include gasoline fractions, kerosenes, jet fuel fractions, diesel fractions, light and heavy gas oils, deasphalted crude oil residua and the like any of which may contain up to about 5 weight percent of sulfur and up to about 3 weight percent of nitrogen. Similar conditions can be employed to effect hydrofining, i.e., denitrogenation and desulfurization, of hydrocarbon feeds containing substantial proportions of organonitrogen and organosulfur compounds. It is generally recognized that the presence of substantial amounts of such constituents markedly inhibits the activity of hydrocracking catalysts. Consequently, it is necessary to operate at more extreme conditions when it is desired to obtain the same degree of hydrocracking conversion per pass on a relatively nitrogenous feed than are required with a feed containing less organonitrogen compounds. Consequently, the conditions under which denitrogenation, desulfurization and or hydrocracking can be most expeditiously accomplished in any given situation are necessarily determined in view of the characteristics of the feedstocks in particular the concentration of organonitrogen compounds in the feedstock. As a result of the effect of organonitrogen compounds on the hydrocracking activity of these compositions it is not at all unlikely that the conditions most suitable for denitrogenation of a given feedstock having a relatively high organonitrogen content with minimal hydrocracking, e.g., less than 20 volume percent of fresh feed per pass, might be the same as those preferred for hydrocracking another feedstock having a lower concentration of hydrocracking inhibiting constituents e.g., organonitrogen compounds. Consequently, it has become the practice in this art to establish the conditions under which a certain feed is to be contacted on the basis of preliminary screening tests with the specific catalyst and feedstock. Isomerization reactions are carried out under conditions similar to those described above for reforming, using somewhat more acidic catalysts. Olefins are preferably isomerized at temperatures of 260 C 500 482 C 900 F , while paraffins, naphthenes and alkyl aromatics are isomerized at temperatures of 371 C 700 538 C 1000 F . Particularly desirable isomerization reactions contemplated herein include the conversion of n heptene and or n octane to isoheptanes, iso octanes, butane to iso butane, methylcyclopentane to cyclohexane, meta xylene and or ortho xylene to paraxylene, 1 butene to 2 butene and or isobutene, n hexene to isohexene, cyclohexene to methylcyclopentene etc. The preferred form of the catalyst is a combination of the FCAPO with polyvalent metal compounds such as sulfides of metals of Group II A, Group II B and rare earth metals. For alkylation and dealkylation processes the FCAPO compositions having pores of at least 0,5 nm 5Å are preferred. When employed for dealkylation of alkyl aromatics, the temperature is usually at least 177 C 350 F and ranges up to a temperature at which substantial cracking of the feedstock or conversion products occurs, generally up to about 371 C 700 F . The temperature is preferably at least 232 C 450 F and not greater than the critical temperature of the compound undergoing dealkylation. Pressure conditions are applied to retain at least the aromatic feed in the liquid state. For alkylation the temperature can be as low as 121 C 250 F but is preferably at least 177 C 350 F . In the alkylation of benzene, toluene and xylene, the preferred alkylating agents are olefins such as ethylene and propylene.