# Twine wrapping apparatus for a roll baling machine.

## Abstract
A twine wrapping apparatus 42 for a roll baling machine includes a shuttle member 50 which carries a gear rack 86 that intermeshes with a pinion 68 connected to a twine dispensing member 56 such as a twine tube. When the shuttle member 50 is moved generally transversely of the roll baling machine, the pinion 68 is rotated by the gear rack 86 resulting in pivoting movement of the twine tube 56 . Preferably first and second twine dispensing members 56 and associated pinions 68 and gear racks 86 are provided the first and second gear racks 86 being disposed on the shuttle member 50 to pivot the twine dispensing members 56 concurrently in opposite directions when the shuttle member 50 is moved transversely. A twine cutting and clamping apparatus 62 is provided including an arm 114 having one edge which cooperates with a cutting member 134 to cut twine therebetween. The arm 114 has another edge which cooperates with a resilient member 136 to clamp twine therebetween. Preferably a dual twine cutting and clamping apparatus 62 is provided including a pair of arms 114 and a pair of intermeshing spur gears 118 connected, respectively, to the arms 114 . A lever 122 is connected to one of the arms 114 to pivot it when the shuttle member 50 is moved transversely. The spur gears 118 cause concurrent pivoting of the other arm 114 when the one arm 114 is pivoted by the lever 122 .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A roll baling machine having a base frame 10 and an apparatus 42 for wrapping a roll bale with twine the twine wrapping apparatus 42 comprising a twine dispensing member 56 pivotally mounted on the base frame 10 , characterized in that the twine wrapping apparatus 42 further also comprises a shuttle member 50 movable back andforth between opposed extreme positions and drivingly connected to the twine dispensing member 56 the shuttle member 50 and the twine dispensing member 56 cooperating to cause pivoting movement of the latter when the shuttle member 50 is moved along a generally rectilinear path. 2. A roll baling machine according to claim 1, characterized in that the twine wrapping apparatus 42 further also comprises a gear segment 68 coupled to the tine dispensing member 56 and a gear rack 86 carried on the shuttle member 50 in intermeshing engagement with the gear segment 68 the gear rack 86 and the gear segment 86 cooperating to cause pivoting movement of the twine dispensing member 56 when the shuttle member 50 is moved along said generally rectilinear path. 3. A roll baling machine according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the shuttle member 50 is movable generally transversely of the base frame 10 in the space defined between the opposed sidewalls ill, 11b of the roll baling machine. 4. A roll baling machine according to claim 3, characterized in that a support beam 46 extends transversely between, and is connected to the side walls lea, llb the twine dispensing member 56 , with the gear segment 68 coupled thereto, being rotatably mounted on the support beam 46 and the shuttle member 50 being movable back and forth lengthwise of said support beam 46 . 5. A roll baling machine according to claim 4, ol 5 91 characterized in that the shuttle member 50 is slidably supported in bearing members 54 fixedly mounted on either the opposed side walls lea, 11b or the support beam 46 for transverse back and forth movement parallel to the support beam 46 . 6. A roll baling machine according to any of the preceding claims characterized in actuating means 92 supported on the base frame 10 and connected to the shuttle member 50 to move the latter relative to the gear segment 68 for pivoting the twine dispensing member 56 coupled to said gear segment 68 . 7. A roll baling machine according to claim 6 when appended to claim 3 characterized in that the actuating means 92 are located outside the space defined between the opposed side walls 11a, lib . 8. A roll baling machine according to claim 6 or 7, characterized in that the actuating means 92 comprise a linear actuator 94 connected to a lever arm 98 which, in turn, is connected to the shuttle member 50 the linear actuator 94 being selectively extendable and contractable. 9. A roll baling machine according to any of the preceding claims characterized in that the twine dispensing member 56 is pivotally movable between a retracted rest position and a dispensing position proximate to the bale chamber inlet the twine dispensing member 56 being pivoted from the rest position to the dispensing position when the shuttle member 50 is shifted in a first direction, and the twine dispensing member 56 being pivoted from the dispensing position to the rest position when the shuttle member 50 is shifted in a further direction opposite to the first direction. 10. A roll baling machine according to claim 9, Ol 59093 characterized in that the gear segment is part of a pinion 68 attached to the twine dispensing member 56 the twine dispensing member 56 and the pinion 68 being pivotable through generally a quarter of a circle when the twine dispensing member 56 is moved from its rest position to its dispensing position. 11. A roll baling machine according to any of the claims 2 to 10, characterized in that the twine wrapping apparatus 42 comprises first and second twine dispensing members 56 pivotally mounted on the base frame 10 first and second gear segments 68 connected to the first and second twine dispensing members 56 , respectively a shuttle member 50 movable back and forth between opposed extreme positions and first and second gear racks 86 carried on the shuttle member 50 in intermeshing engagement with the first and second gear segments 68 , respectively, for, upon back and forth movement of the shuttle member 50 , pivoting the first and second twine dispensing members 56 . 12. A roll baling machine according to claim 11, characterized in that the first and second gear racks 86 cooperate with the first and second gear segments 68 , respectively, to cause pivoting movement of the first and second twine dispensing members 56 in opposite directions with respect to each other when the shuttle member 50 is moved in the one or the other direction. 13. A roll baling machine according to claim 12 when appended to claim 9, characterized in that the first and second twine dispensing members 56 pivotally are mounted proximate to the respective opposite side walls lea, 11b and generally face each other when in their rest positions and generally extend parallel to the adjacent side walls lea, 11b when in their dispensing positions the first and second gear racks 86 being provided at opposite sides of the respective pivotal mountings of the respective twine dispensing members 56 . 14. A roll baling machine according to any of the preceding claims characterized in that the twine wrapping apparatus 42 further also comprises twine cutting and clamping means 62 mounted on the base frame 10 the twine cutting and clamping means 62 including a cutting member 134 a resilient member 136 and an arm 114 movable between a closed position and an open position the arm 114 having . afirst edge which cooperates with the cutting member 134 , when the arm 114 is moved to the closed position, to cut twine between said first edge and said cutting member 134 and . asecond edge which cooperates with the resilient member 136 , when the arm 114 is moved to the closed position, to clamp twine between said second edge and said resilient member 136 . 15. A roll baling machine according to claim 14, characterized in that the resilient member comprises a spring clip 136 having a resilient leg arranged to clamp twine between said leg and said second edge of the arm 114 the twine being released from being clamped when the arm 114 is moved to the open position. 16. A roll baling machine according to claim 15, characterized in that the twine cutting and clamping means 62 further also comprise a body member 110 fixedly secured to the base frame 10 the arm 114 being pivotally mounted on the body member 110 and the cutting member 134 and the spring clip 136 being disposed in a pocket 120 formed in the body member 110 . 17. A roll baling machine according to any of the 9 a1igs9 9 3 14 to 16 when appended to any of the claims 11 to 13, characterized in that the twine cutting and clamping means 62 comprise first and second arms 114 each having one edge adapted for cutting twine and another edge for clamping twine and first and second spur gears 118 connected to the first and second aries 114 , respectively, and being in interineshing engagement with each other for causing concurrent pivoting of the first and second arms 114 . 18. A roll baling machine according to claim 17 characterized in that the twine cutting and clamping means 62 further also comprise a lever 122 connected to the first arm 114 and cam means 138 carried on the shuttle member 50 for, upon movement of the shuttle member 50 in the one or other direction, engaging the lever 122 to move the first and second arms 114 between their closed and open positions. 19. A roll baling machine according to claim 18 characterized in that the lever 122 carries first and second rollers 124, 126 and in that the cam means 138 comprise first and second cam surfaces 140, 142 arranged for engaging the first and second rollers 124, 126 , respectively, to move the arms 114 between the closed and open positions. 20. A roll baling machine according to any of the claims 14 to 19 characterized in that a spring 128 is connected to the arm 114 respectively to at least one of the arms 114 to urge said arm 114 , respectively said first and second arms 114 into the closed and open positions. 21. A roll baling machine according to any of the Ol 59093 preceding claims characterized in a mechanism coupling the or each twine dispensing member 56 to the or each respective gear segment 68 while permitting the or each dispensing member 56 to be uncoupled from the or each respective gear segment 68 when a predetermined load is exerted on the or each respective twine dispensing member 56 during the pivoting movement thereof.

## Description
TWINE WRAPPING APPARATUS FOR A ROLL BALING MACHINE This invention relates generally to roll baling machines typically referred to as round balers which form cylindrical roll bales of crop material. In particular, this invention relates to a twine wrapping apparatus including a twine cutting and clamping apparatus for such roll baling machines. U.S. Patent No. 4,167,844 discloses a twine wrapping apparatus including a drag link connected between a cam follower link and a driven link. The cam follows link carries a roller engaged with a cam plate, and the driven link is connected to a twine dispensing tube. When the cam plate is rotated, the roller on the cam follower link follows the peripheral contour of the cam plate so that the cam follower link moves the drag link in a manner which results in rotation of the driven link and pivoting movement of the twine dispensing tube. A significant disadvantage of this twine wrapping apparatus is that precise adjustments of the cam plate and the drag link are required in order for the apparatus to operate properly. U.S. patent no. 4.306.494 discloses a twine cutting and clamping apparatus which includes a twine guide fork movable into and out of a slot formed in a bracket. A twine cutting blade is fixed to the bottom of the bracket When the twine guide fork is moved into the slot in the bracket, the twine is pulled against the cutting blade to be cut. The twine is also clamped between a bar formed on the twine guide fork and the sides of the slot in the braket. When the twine guide fork is moved out of the bracket slot, the twine is released. A disadvantage of this apparatus is that the twine must be pulled very taut in order to be effectively cut by the cutting blade. Finally U.S. patent no. 4.169.410 discloses a twine severing mechanism including a pair of cutting blades movable into and out of engagement with a pair of striker plates to cut twine. The cutting blades are mounted on an elongated rod, and thetr 15Q093 movement is controlled by a pair of control rods which are connected to a pair of latch plates. When the control rods are displaced, substantially simultaneous movement of the cutting blades is effected due to the elongated rod and the latch plates.A disadvantage of this twine severing mechanism is that it is rather complex and thus difficult to assemble. It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a new twine wrapping apparatus including a twine dispensing member and twine clamping and twine cutting means and which is simple in design and therefore is to assemble without requiring critical adjustments and which furthermore is efficient and trouble free in operation. The present invention is directed to a novel twine wrapping apparatus for use in a roll baling machine having a base frame the twine wrapping apparatus comprising a twine dispensing member pivotally mounted on the base frame. According to the invention the twine wrapping apparatus further also comprises a shuttle Member movable back and forth between opposed extreme positions and drivingly connected to the twine dispensing member the shuttle member and the twine dispensing member cooperating to cause pivoting movement of the latter when the shuttle xember is moved along a generally rectilinear path. Preferably a gear segment is coupled to the twine dispensing member and a gear rack is carried on the shuttle member in intermeshing engagement with the gear segment. The gear segment and the gear rack cooperate to cause pivoting movement of the twine dispensing member when the shuttle member is moved along said generally rectilinear path.The shuttle member preferably is movable generally transversely of the base frame in the space defined between the opposed side walls of the roll baling machine. In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the twine wrapping apparatus comprises first and second twine dispensing members pivotally mounted on the base frame, first and second gear segments connected to the Bi F LtJVt S and second twine dispensing members, respectively a shuttle member movable back and forth between opposed extreme positions and first and second gear racks carried on the shuttle member in intermeshing engagement with the first and second gear segments, respectively, for, upon back and forth movement of the shuttle member, pivoting the first and second twine dispensing members. The twine wrapping apparatus according to the present invention also comprises a twine cutting and clamping meons including a cutting member, a resilient member, and an arm movable between a closed position and an open position. The arm has a first edge which cooperates with the cutting member to cut twine between this first edge of the arm and the cutting member when the arm is moved to the closed position. The arm also has a second edge which cooperates with the resilient member to clamp twine between this second edge of the arm and the resilient member when the arm is moved to the closed position. The twine is released from being clamped between the second edge of the arm an the resilient member when the arm is moved to the open position. In the preferred embodiment of the invention comprising the dual twine wrapping apparatus, the twine cutting and clamping means include first and second arms each having one edge adapted for cutting twine and another edge adapted for clamping twine.First and second spur gears are connected, respectively, to the first and second arms, and the first and second spur gears are in intermeshing engagement with each other. The mechanism also includes a lever connected to the first arm for pivoting the first arm. The first and second spur gears cause concurrent pivoting of the second arm when the first arm is pivoted by the lever. A breakaway mechanism may be provided coupling the twine dispensing member to the gear segment for permitting the twine dispensing member to be uncoupled from the gear segment when a predetermined load is exerted on the twine dispensing member during its pivoting movement. The breakaway mechanism may include a plate secured to the trnb9093 dispensing member with projections formed thereon for engagement in grooves formed in a plate coupled to the gear segment. A spring is also provided in the breakaway mechanism to urge the projections on the plate into the grooves in the gear segment. A roll baling machine embodying the present invention will now be described in greater detail by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 1 is a side elevation view of a roll baling machine incorporating the preferred embodiment of the twine wrapping apparatus J Fig. 2 is an enlarged sectional view taken on lines 2 2 of Fig. r Fig. 3 is a view taken on lines 3 3 of Fig. 2 Fig. 4 is a view taken on lines 4 4 of Fig. 3 Fig. 5 is an enlarged sectional view taken on lines 5 5 of Fig. 3 Fig. 6 is an enlarged sectional view taken on lines 6 6 of Fig. 3 Fig. 7 is an enlarged sectional view taken on lines 7 7 of Fig. 2 Fig. 8 is an enlarged sectional view taken on lines 8 8 of Fig. 2 Fig. 9 is an enlarged sectional view taken on lines 9 9 of Fig. 3 and Figs. 10 13 are schematic views of the mechanism shown inFigs. 6 9. Referring to Fig. 1, a roll baling machine incorporating the preferred embodiment of the present invention includes a base frame 10 supported by a pair of wheels 12, and a rear frame 14 pivotally connected at 16 to the base frame 10 by suitable bearings. A pickup unit 18 is mounted on the base frame 10 and is supported by wheels 20. A floor roller 22, guide members 24, and drive sprockets 26 are rotatably mounted on the base frame 10.Also, cas guide members 28 are supported on the base frame 10. An arm assembly 30 is rotatably mounted on the base frame 10 by a tube 32, and the arm assembly 30 carries guide members 34 whqcths 9 0 9 3 are rotatable. A plurality of guide members 36 are rotatably supported on the rear frame 14. A bale forming apron 38 is movably supported on the drive sprockets 26, the guide members 24,34 and 36, and the cam guide members 28. The bale forming apron 38 is preferably comprised of a pair of endless link type chains connected at spaced intervals by transverse bars or slats,When the machine is empty, the apron 38 is supported on the cam guide members 28 to define a bale chamber having an initial wedge shape in side elevation.During bale formation, the apron 38 is lifted off the cam guide members 28 as the bale chamber expands to a generally cylindrical shape. According to the present invention, a twine wrapping apparatus 42 is supported on the base frame 10 and a twine box 44 is provided for supplying twine to the twine wrapping apparatus 42. As seen in Figs. 2, 3, and 4, the twine wrapping apparatus 42 includes a support beam 46 which extends transversely between the side walls 11a,11b of the base frame 10 and is connected thereto by bolts 48. As seen in Fig. 5, the beam 46 is of a generally inverted U shaped cross section. The twine wrapping apparatus 42 also includes a shuttle member 50 which is supported at its ends by rods 52a,52b slidably disposed in bearings 54 mounted in the side walls 11a,11b for permitting movement of the shuttle member 50 generally transversely of the base frame 10 in the space 11 defined between the side walls 11a,11b.As seen in Fig. 5, the shuttle member 50 is generally channel or top hat shaped in cross section. Twine dispensing members such as twine tubes or arms 56 are rotatably supported on the support beam 46, and strands of twine 58 extend from the twine box 44 through twine guides 60 mounted on the support beam 46, then through the twine tubes 56 and into a cut and clamp mechanism 62 which is also supported on the support beam 46. The twine tubes 56 are each welded to the lower cOeIQf9093 pair of plates 64 as seen in Fig. 5, and the plates 64 are connected to each other by bolts 66. The plates 64 are fixed to pinions 68 by bolts 70, only one bolt 70 being shown in Fig. 5.The pinions 68 are rotatably mounted on shafts 72 which are fixed at their upper ends to the support beam 46. As will be apparent from what follows hereafter, the pinions 68 may be replaced by gear segments of preferably more than 900 but less than 1800. A pair of washers 74 and a bearing member 76 are disposed between the upper side of each pinion 68 and a stabilizer block 78 which is positioned between the uppermost washer 74 and the support beam 46. Another pair of washers 75 and another bearing member 77 are disposed underneath the lowermost plate 64, and a bolt 80 is threaded into the bottom end of each shaft 72. A spacer collar 82 and a washer 84 are disposed between the lowermost washer 75 and the head of each bolt 80.When the bolts 80 are tightened into the shafts 72, the twine tubes 56 are, in effect, fixed to and will rotate with the pinions 68 as will be described later. The shuttle xewber 50 carries gear racks 86 which have teeth in intermeshing engagement with the teeth of the pinions 68. As seen in Fig. 4, openings 88 are provided in the top of the shuttle member 50 near the ends thereof to accommodate the stabilizer blocks 78, and another opening 90 is provided in the top of the shuttle member 50 near the center thereof to accommodate the cut and clamp mechanism 62. Referring now to Fig. 2, the mechanism 92 for actuating the twine wrapping apparatus 42 includes a linear actuator 94 which is pivotably connected at one end to a bracket 96 and at the other end to a lever arm 98. The bracket 96 is secured to side wall lia of the base frame 10 by bolts 100. The lever arm 98 is pivotably connected by a pin 102 to a bracket 104 which is fixed to the side wall lia of the base frame 10 by two of the bolts 48 and by a further bolt 106. The lever arm 98 is also pivotably connected by a pin 108 to the end of the rod 52a which extends through the side wall 11a of the base frame 10.When the linear actuator 94 is extended as shown in Fig. 2, the lever arm 9801 59093 pivoted on pin 102 from the position shown in full lines to the phantom position thereby moving the shuttle member 50 generally transversely toward the side wall 11a of the base frame 10. This causes the gear racks 86 on the shuttle member 50 to move in a direction which will cause concurrent rotation of the pinions 68 on the shafts 72 in opposite directions with respect to each other.Such rotation of the pinions 68 will cause simultaneous pivoting movement of the twine tubes 56 in opposite directions with respect to each other from their home or rest positions shown in full lines to their dispensing positions shown in phantom lines at 56 . Opposite pivoting movement of the twine dispensing tube 56 is obtained by providing the respective gear racks 86 at opposite sides of the respective pivotal mountings of said twine dispensing tubes 56. Subsequent contraction of the linear actuator 94 will move the shuttle member 50 back toward the side wall lib of the base frame 10 and thereby cause simultaneous pivoting movement of the twine tubes 56 back to their home or rest positions shown in full lines.As can be taken from Fig. 2, the twine dispensing tubes 56 preferably have their pivotal mountings proximate to the respective opposite side walls lia and lib and generally face each other when positioned in their rest positions.When moved to their twine dispensing positions, said twine dispensing tubes 56 extend generally parallel to the adjacent side walls gila, 11b. Consequently the twine dispensing tubes 56 are pivoted through an arc of generally a quarter of a circle when moved between their rest and twine dispsensing positions. Actually the arc of movement is slightly more than 900 but is subtantially less than 1800, as can be derived from Fig. 2. Accordingly, the pinions 68, during operation, are used only for about slightly more than a quarter of their circumference. Hence said pinions 68 may be replaced by gear segments of slightly more than 900 in circumference. As seen in Figs. 6, 7, and 8, the cut and clamp mechanism 62 includes a body member 110 which is fastened to the support beam 46 by four bolts 112. A pair of arms 114 are mounted on pins 116 which are pivoted on the body member 110. lntermeshing spur gears 118 are fixed to the arms 114. Pocks 59093 120 are provided in the bottom of the body member 110 to accoodate portions of the anus 114 when they are pivoted to the closed positions shown in full lines in Fig. 7 and 8. A lever 122 is fixed to one of the pins 116, and carries rollers 124 and 126.Tension springs 128 are connected between bolts 130 which are fastened to the body member 110 and bolts 132 which are connected to the arms 114. As best seen in Fig. 6, cutting members such as knives 134 and generally U shaped spring clips 136 having resilient legs 137 are fastened to the body member 110 and are disposed in the pockets 120. A pair of cam members 138 are secured to the shuttle member 50. Each of the cam members 138 has a first cam surface 140 and a second cam surface 142 arranged for engaging the rollers 124 and 126, respectively, on the lever 122. When the shuttle member 50 is moved toward the right inFig. 8, the cam surface 140 on the left hand cam member 138 engages the roller 124 on the lever 122 and pivots the lever 122 to the position shown in phantom at 122 . Further movement of the shuttle member 50 toward the right in Fig. 8 causes the cam surface 142 on the left hand cam member 138 to engage the roller 126 on the lever 122 thereby pivoting the lever 122 to the position indicated in phantom at 122 . This pivoting movement of the lever 122 causes the intermeshing spur gears 118 to be rotated, resulting in concurrent pivoting movement of the arms 114 to their partially open positions shown in phantom at 114 and finally to their fully open positions indicated in phantom at l l 114 .As the arms 114 are pivoted to their fully open positions 114 , the springs 128 seen in Fig. 7 will move slightly over center with respect to the pins 116 and will hold the arms 114 in that position. Subsequent opposite movement of the shuttle member 50 toward the left in Fig. 8 will result in the right hand cam member 138 pivoting the arms 114 back toward their closed positions shown in full lines. As the arms 114 reach their partially open positions 114 ,the springs 128 will move sufficiently rack over center with respect to the pins 116 to quickly snap the arms 114 back into their closed positions. The twine cutting and clamping operation of the cut nt g o g 3 clamp mechanism 62 will be best understood by referring to Figs.9 13. As seen in Fig. 9, the strands of twine 58 are each initially clamped between an edge of one of the arms 114 and the resilient leg 137 of one of the spring clips 136 when the arms 114 are in their closed positions. As the arms 114 move toward their partially open positions, as shown in Fig. 10, the strands of twine 58 are released. The strands of twine 58 remain released as the arms 114 move to their fully open position shown in Fig. 11 and also as the arms 114 move back toward their closed position as shown in Fig. 12.As the arms 114 are snapped back into their closed position by the springs 128 as shown in Fig. 13, each strand of twine 58 is cut by a rapid shearing or scissors type action between an edge of one of the arms 114 and the cutting edge of one of the knives 134 while being simultaneously clamped between the other edge of the arm 114 and the resilient leg 137 of the spring clip 136. During the formation of a roll bale in the machine ofFig. 1, the twine tubes 56 are disposed in their home or rest positions shown in full lines in Fig. 2 and the arms 114 are in their closed positions so that the strands of twine 58 are clamped in the cut and clamp mechanism 62. When the roll bale has been completed and it is desired to wrap the bale with twine, the linear actuator 94 is extended thereby moving the shuttle member 50 toward the sidewall 11a of the base frame 10. This movement of the shuttle member 50 causes the twine tubes 56 to be pivoted, due to the gear racks 86 and the pinions 68, toward the positions indicated in phantom lines at 56 in Fig. 2 while the strands of twine 58 remain clamped in the cut and clamp mechanism 62.By clamping the strands of twine 58 in the cut and clamp mechanism 62 while the twine tubes 56 are moved from their home positions to their phantom positions 56 I , relatively long twine tails are generated on the strands of twine 58. Further movement of the shuttle member 50 toward the sidewall 11a of the base frame 10 causes the twine tubes 56 to be pivoted to their dispensing positions shown in phantom at 56 in Fig. 2. As the twine 093 56 Eove from the phantom positions 56 to their dispensing II positions 56 , the arms 114 are moved from their closed positions to their fully open positions 114 and the strands of twine 58 are released from the cut and clamp mechanism 62.The twine tails are fed into the bale chamber in order to be caught between the floor roller 22 and the rotating bale. The linear actuator 94 is then contracted to move the shuttle member 50 back toward the sidewall llb of the base france 10 and thereby pivot the twine tubes 56 from their dispensing positions 56 back toward their home positions shown in full lines in Fig. 2. During this pivoting movement of the twine tubes 56, twine is wrapped around the bale in a spiral manner. As the twine tubes 56 reach their home positions, the arms 114 are snapped back to their closed positions by the springs 128 and the strands of twine 58 are simultaneously cut and clamped in the cut and clamp mechanism 62.The wrapped bale is then discharged frol the machine by pivoting the rear frame 14 upwardly in a known manner. The twine wrapping apparatus 42 is ready to wrap the next bale with twine. It will be understood that the linear actuator 94 may be in the form of an electric servomotor or a hydraulic piston and cylinder unit. Furthermore, the linear actuator 94 may take the form of a manual device such as a threaded rod. It will also be understood that the present invention is not limited to the arrangement as disclosed in the preferred embodiment of the twine wrapping apparatus where two twine tubes 56 are employed. Alternatively, the twine wrapping apparatus of the present invention may employ only one twine tube or any other number of twine tubes. It will also be understood that the shuttle member 50 slideably may be supported on the support beam 46 as opposed to being mounted on the side walls Ila, 11b by the bearings 54.Similarly, the actuating means 92 alternatively may be provided inside the space defined between the opposite side walls gila, 11b. While in the preferred embodiment the shuttle memer 50 is mounted for rectilinear movement transversely of the width oR th5e9 0 9 3 baling machine, it will be evident that the shuttle memer 50 may be movable in other directions and indeed even may be movable in a generally fore and aft direction of the machine. More generally the shuttle member 50 is movable back and forth along a generally rectilinear path between opposed extreme positions and is drivingly connected to the or each twine dispensing tube 56. The twine dispensing apparatus as described herebefore also advantageously may include a breakaway mechanism coupling the or each twine tube 50 to its respective driving pinion 68. The breakaway mechanism permits the twine dispensing tube 56 to be uncoupled from its driving pinion 68 when a predetermined load is exerted on the twine dispensing tube 56 during its pivoting movement. The breakaway mechanism may include the lower plate 64 secured to the twine dispensing tube 56 and which is provided with projections formed thereon for engagement in grooves formed in the upper plate 64 coupled to the pinion 68. A spring is also provided in the breakaway mechanism to urge the projections on the lower plate 64 into the grooves in the upper plate 64. Alternatively the bolts 66 coupling the upper and lower plates 64 to each other may be shearbolts arranged to be sheared off when the twine dispensing tube 56 is overloaded. The following claims are intended to cover all modifications and variations of the preferred embodiments of the invention without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.