# OINTMENT BASE

## Claims
Salbengrundstoff umfassend

## Description
This invention relates to an ointment base which contains one or two water soluble proteins a monohydric alcohol and one or two wetting agents. An ointment is a semisolid pharmaceutical preparation, in the form of a gel or cream, for local administration of a drug. It is applied to the skin so that the drug can be released and permeate the skin. Therefore, the most important quality of an ointment is that it delivers the incorporated drug onto the skin surface rapidly and positively so that it may find its way into the lesion. Another requisite of an ointment is that it is use worthy in terms of irritation to the skin, feeling of use, and stability of the preparation. To satisfy these requirements, a variety of ointment bases have heretofore been proposed. Japanese Kokai Sho 56 71025 discloses hydrophilic and good water holdable base for plaster containing gelatin, polyvinylalcohol or polyvinylpyrrolidone, sodium polyacrylate, carboxyvinyl polymer, polyhydric alcohol such as glycerin and water, in addition to, for example, methyl salicylate. Japanese Kokai Sho 55 9046 discloses a skin coating composition such as a cosmetic carrier containing chondroitin sulfuric acid or sulfate, gelatin, polyvalent alcohol such as glycerin and water, in addition to, for example, vitamin B₆. However, these are not satisfactory yet. Particularly there are many problems left unsolved as for example, the skin acts as a barrier to the absorption of the drug. One cannot place much expectations on the systemic effects of drugs administered by the percutaneous route, because difficulty is encountered in the release of the drug and its penetration, and bioavailability of such preparations is remarkably poor in comparison with that of corresponding oral preparations. It is for these reasons that the advent of an ointment base free from the above mentioned disadvantages has been awaited. In the above technical situation, the present inventors have found, after intensive researches to develop an ointment base for external use which is free from said drawbacks, that the use of an ointment base containing a water soluble protein, an alcohol and optionally a oleaginous substance results in a marked improvement in the percutaneous absorption of drugs. Further studies have followed the findings, and ultimately this invention has been established. No other available ointment base offering such an improved percutaneous absorption of drugs as the present preparation has been known. Thus, this invention relates to an ointment base characterized by containing 1 one or two water soluble protein capable of producing a percutaneous absorption promoting effect 2 a monohydric alcohol which contains from 2 to 4 carbon atoms 3 one or two wetting agents and optionally a oleaginous substance. Any water soluble protein 1 may be employed as long as the protein is able to promote percutaneous absorption of the drug used. Such protein may be a naturally occurring one or a non natural one. The former includes animal protein and vegetable protein, while the latter include peptides artificially derived or synthesized. Although there are fields of technology where a sharp distinction is made between peptide and protein, peptides are included in the category of the protein for the purposes of this invention, when we take its action and effect into account. Examples of said animal proteins include gelatin, solubilized collagen, casein and its sodium salt , glue, and their hydrolysates. The gelatin and solubilized collagen include the soluble proteins obtainable by acid or alkali hydrolysis or hot water treatment of proteins from animal bones or skins, and the products derived therefrom by suitable chemical modifications for example, succinylation, maleylation, phthalation , and they range from about tens of thousand to hundreds of thousand in molecular weight. Typical of said vegetable proteins are soybean protein for example, the protein obtainable by sedimentation and enzymatic treatment of the water soluble fraction of solvent extracted soybean cake and soybean casein. The peptides mentioned above include the peptides obtainable by homo or hetero condensation of amino acid by such techniques as chemical synthesis, fermentation or semi synthesis, and their molecular weight are generally in the range of a few hundred to tens of thousand. As such, the constituent amino acids of the peptides may be neutral, basic or and acidic, optically active or and racemic, natural or and synthetic. In accordance with this invention, either one or two of such water soluble proteins can be employed. For instance, gelatin can be used either alone or in admixture with casein, etc. Moreover, in consideration of promotant effects on drug absorption, compatibility or dispersability with other components, ease of availability, etc., gelatin, solubilized collagen, casein, soybean protein, etc. are generally utilized with advantage. The amount of said water soluble protein need only be that which helps accomplish the objects of this invention, and preferably that which ensures a sufficient promoting effect on the percutaneous absorption of the drug used. For this purpose, the water soluble protein is in many instances used in an amount substantially equal to or surpassing the amount of the drug. The protein is used generally in a proportion of about 0.5 to 30 weight percent, preferably about 0.5 to 20 weight percent, more preferably about 1 to 10 weight percent, based on the whole ointment base of this invention. The monohydric alcohols mentioned hereinbefore 2 may be such alcohols that has mainly the function as solvents, more specifically having the function to increase compatibility or dispersability of the components contained. The said alcohols are monovalent alcohols having from 2 to 4 carbon atoms for example, lower alcohol such as ethanol, isopropanol and butanol. In general, ethanol is preferred. When such a solvent is used, its amount need only be that which is sufficient to accomplish the aforesaid object, and it is usually 1 to 45 weight percent, preferably 5 to 40 weight percent, more preferably 5 to 35 weight percent, based on the ointment base of this invention. Examples of the oleaginous substance mentioned hereinbefore include fatty acid esters, aliphatic higher alcohols, paraffin oil, lanolin oil, silicone oil, Plastibase tradename of Squibb and Sons Corp., U.S.A. Fatty acid esters mentioned hereinbefore may be the synthetic or naturally occuring esters of aliphatic carboxylic acids and aliphatic alcohols. The said aliphatic carboxylic acids include saturated or unsaturated aliphatic mono or di carboxylic acids, typical of which are lower or higher fatty acids having 2 to 24 carbon atoms, and, in particular, medium or higher fatty acids having 6 to 20 carbon atoms are preferred. Examples of such fatty acids are as follows acetic acid, propionic acid, hexanoic acid, capric acid, caprylic acid, octanoic acid, dioctanoic acid, adipic acid, sebacic acid, palmitic acid, stearic acid, oleic acid, linolic acid, linolenic acid and myristic acid. Aliphatic alcohol moiety for the oleaginous substance mentioned hereinbefore include saturated or unsaturated aliphatic monool and triol having 1 to 30 carbon atoms, preferably 1 to 20 carbon atoms and polyol having 4 to 8 hydroxyl groups. The said monool includes straight chain or branched alcohols, for example methanol, ethanol, propanol, butanol, hexanol, octanol, decanol, hexadecanol, octyldodecyl alcohol, palmityl alcohol, stearyl alcohol and myristyl alcohol. Typical of the said triol is glycerin and typical of the said polyol includes sorbitol or sorbit and saccharose. As the aforesaid ester of aliphatic carboxylic acid and aliphatic alcohol, esters of which all carboxylic groups and alcoholic hydroxy groups participate in the ester formation perfect ester are preferred, but in some cases, it may be the esters of which one carboxylic group in the molecule of aliphatic dicarboxylic acid or and a part of the hydroxy groups in the molecule of tri poly ol are free or partial ester. The said ester may be a mixed ester. Among others, glycerides, particularly tri glycerides, of medium or higher fatty acid having 6 to 20 carbon atoms, perfect ester of medium or higher fatty acid having 6 to 20 carbon atoms and aliphatic monool having 1 to 20 carbon atoms, or a partial ester of the former with polyol are preferably used. The examples of the aforesaid fatty acid esters are given below isopropyl myristate, octyldodecyl myristate, myristyl myristate, isopropyl palmitate, butyl sterarate, decyl oleate, diisopropyl adipate, diethyl sebacate, hexyldecyl dioctate, sorbitan monopalmitate, succharose fatty acid ester, triacetin, di or tri glyceride caprylate, di or tri glyceride caprate, mixed trigriceride comprising caprylic acid and capric acid, di or tri glyceride oleate, di or tri glyceride linolate and mixed glyceride comprising oleic acid and linolic acid. As the aliphatic esters mentioned hereinbefore, either that in the almost pure state as in the case of synthetic product or that in the state admixed with other substances as in the case of naturally occuring product may be used without problem. In the case of the former, the aforesaid substance is used as it is, while in the latter case, natural oils and fats, for example, such animal oils as lard, beef tallow or spermaceti, or such vegetable oils as soybean oil, sesame oil, cotton seed oil, palm oil, olive oil, castor oil or beeswax, are used. Typical aliphatic higher alcohols mentioned hereinbefore are saturated and unsaturated aliphatic alcohols having 14 to 20 carbon atoms, for example, cetanol or palmityl alcohol, stearyl alcohol, oleyl alcohol and hexadecyl alcohol. Paraffin oil mentioned hereinbefore includes those made mainly of the mixture of paraffins having 15 or more carbon atoms, for example, fluid paraffin, vaseline including white vaseline, squalane and squalene, of which fluid paraffin, white vaseline, squalane, etc. are preferably used. Silicone oil mentioned hereinbefore includes admixture of the polymers of dimethylsiloxane, for example, dimethylpolysiloxane and its alkyl ester, methylphenylpolysiloxane or glycol methylsiloxane. Lanolin oil mentioned hereinbefore includes lanolin, lanolin wax, hydrogenated or reduced lanolin and its polymer with ethylene oxide, of which lanolin is generally preferred. Main chemical composition of the said lanolin is usually as follows 30 to 35 weight percent of alcohols, for example, cetyl alcohol, lanolin alcohol and carnaubyl alcohol, 15 to 20 weight percent of cholesterins, for example, cholesterin, isocholesterin and metacholesterin and 45 to 55 weight percent of fatty acids, for example, acetic acid, butyric acid, caproic acid, myristic acid, stearic acid and lanostearic acid. As the oleaginous substance mentioned hereinbefore, those having either one of the functions owing to covering the skin, for example, protecting from infiltration or stimulation of foreign matters from outside, or modifying the skin or eschar, are used. Those giving less stimulation to skin and having better dispersability and compatibility with other components are preferred. As such oleaginous substance, the products in liquid, paste or wax state are available, and the product in either of the said states may be used without problem. In general, it will be convenient to use the products sold on the market. For the purpose of this invention, one or more, preferably one to four of the afore mentioned oleaginous substances may be used. The amount of said oleaginous substance to be used need only be that which is sufficient to accomplish the objects of this invention, and the amount generally used is 0.5 30 weight percent, preferably 0.5 to 25 weight percent, more preferably about 1 to 20 weight percent, based on the whole ointment base of this invention. The ratio of composition of the said alcohols to oleaginous substances when they are co used cannot be mentioned specifically, but usually the ratio of alcohols oleaginous substance is about 1 0.02 to 10, preferably 1 0.03 to 5 by weight. Any wetting agent 3 is used as long as it contributes to improve quality characteristics such as the moisture retentivity, spreadability, gloss and feeling of the ointment. Examples of wetting agent include polyhydric alcohols and amino acids as representative examples. The polyhydric alcohols include glycols, triols and polyols having 4 to 6 alcoholic hydroxyl groups, and the amino acids include various amino acids commonly known as natural amino acids. The glycols include alkylene glycols containing 2 to 6 carbon atoms, e.g., ethylene glycol, propylene glycol, butylene glycol, etc. polyethylene glycol having average molecular weight of about 200 to 8,000, preferably 200 to 6,000, etc. said triols include glycerin, trimethylolpropane, etc. and said polyols include sorbitol or sorbit, etc. In particular, the said alkylene glycol, polyethylene glycol, glycerin and sorbitol are preferably used. In the practice of this invention, one or two of said wetting agents can be used. The proportion of such wetting agent or agents need only be that which satisfies the above mentioned purpose, and may range generally from about 1 to 35 weight percent and preferably from about 2 to 30 weight percent when water is concomitantly used and generally from about 40 to 90 weight percent and preferably from about 50 to 85 weight percent, more preferably from about 60 to 85 weight percent, based on the whole ointment base of this invention when water is not used. In the ointment base of this invention, the components heretofore used in the conventional ointment bases may be incorporated in addition to the above mentioned 1 one or two water soluble proteins 2 a monohydric alcohol and 3 one or two wetting agents and optionally an oleaginous substance. As such components, thickeners or and emulsifiers may be used in a composition of several varieties selected according to the intended application. For example, when a thickener is used in addition to said water soluble protein, generally a gel like ointment base is obtained, while the use of an emulsifier in addition to said water soluble protein generally results in a cream like ointment base. The addition of an emulsifier to the above gel like base, and of a thickener to the above cream like base is permissible within the range not in conflict with the objects of this invention. The above mentioned thickener is a substance which increases the viscosity of the whole ointment to thereby contribute to the necessary product characteristics such as desirable rheologic properties or improved affinity to the skin. Among examples of such thickener are cellulose derivatives, polysaccharides, carboxyvinyl polymers, polyvinyl alcohol, polyvinylpyrrolidone, etc. The above mentioned cellulose derivatives include alkylcelluloses and hydroxyalkylcelluloses, whose average molecular weights are in the range of about 40,000 to 200,000 and whose alkyl moieties contain 1 to 4 carbon atoms, e.g. methylcellulose, ethylcellulose, propylcellulose, methylpropylcellulose, hydroxymethylcellulose, hydroxyethylcellulose, hydroxypropylcellulose, and carboxymethylcellulose and its alkali metal salts, etc. Examples of said polysaccharides include simple polysaccharides such as starch and its derivatives, e.g. carboxymethyl starch, hydroxypropylstarch, dextrin, dextran, chitin, alginic acid and its sodium salt, glycogen, Pluran the trademark of Hayashibara in Japan ,carrageenan, etc., and complex polysaccharides such as xanthane gum, mannan, pectin and gum arabic. In particular, sodium alginate, carrageenan, xanthane gum are preferred. The above mentioned carboxyvinyl polymers are those having average molecular weights in the range of about 900,000 to 3,000,000, and include polyacrylic acid, polymethacrylic acid and their alkali metal salts. In particular, sodium polyacrylate is preferably used. To be specific, such commercial products as Hiviswako the trademark of Wako Junyaku in Japan , Carbopol the trademark of Goodrich in U.S.A. , Luviskol trademark of BASF, West Germany , etc. can be advantageously employed. In accordance with this invention, one or more of the thickeners mentioned above can be employed. Where such a thickener is employed, its amount need only be that which satisfied the above mentioned purpose of use, and may range generally from about 0.1 to 10 weight percent, and preferably from about 0.5 to 5 weight percent. The above mentioned emulsifier is a substance having the property to emulsify or disperse the components evenly into the product base. Generally, the emulsifier is preferably a substance having surface active properties and, therefore, various nonionic, anionic and cationic surfactants can be utilized. Examples of said surfactants include Polysorbate 80, sorbitan fatty acid esters, fatty acid monoglycerides, sucrose fatty acid esters, aliphatic alcohol polyoxyethylene derivatives, fatty acid polyoxyethylene derivatives, polyoxyethylene derivatives of polyhydric alcohol fatty acid esters, sodium laurylsulfate, lecithin, dioctyl sulfosuccinate, etc. In particular, nonionic surfactants such as Polysorbate 80 is preferably used. In place of the above mentioned emulsifier or concomitantly with the said emulsifier, an appropriate solution auxiliaries, e.g. such organic amines as diisopropanolamine, crotamiton such amino acids as ℓ lysine, may be used for the same purpose. In the practice of this invention, one or more of the above mentioned emulsifiers are employed. When such emulsifier is employed, its amount need only be that which satisfies the above mentioned purpose of use, and may range generally from about 0.1 to 5 weight percent and preferably from about 0.5 to 4 weight percent and more preferably from about 0.5 to 3 weight percent, based on the whole ointment base of this invention. In addition to the above mentioned components, suitable amount of water may be added for the purpose of ensuring the product characteristics of the ointment base of this invention. The proportion of water is generally about 20 to 80 weight percent, preferably about 35 to 75 weight percent, and more preferably about 40 to 70 weight percent. Further, in the ointment base of this invention, preservatives and pH controlling agents may be added, if necessary. As such a preservative, publicly known preservatives for conventional ointments for the purpose of preventing degeneration by microorganism or putrefaction, e.g. such parabens as methyl, ethyl, or propyl ester of paraoxy benzoic acid, sorbic acid, dehydro acetic acid, etc. may be used. Such a preservative is generally added in an amount of about of 0.05 to 2 weight percent,preferably about 0.1 to 1 weight percent,relative to the whole composition. As an above mentioned pH controlling agent, substances having the properties mainly to maintain stability of the components, alleviate stimulation or and maintain drug absorbability of the skin through adjustment of pH, for example, organic acids, e.g. citric acid, lactic acid and tartaric acid or inorganic acids, e.g. hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid and phosphoric acid or their alkali metal salts may be used. The amount of such pH adjusting agent is generally about 0.1 to 5 weight percent and preferably about 1 to 4 weight percent, relative to the whole amount of the composition. The present ointment base having the foregoing composition is used for medical and cosmetic uses. When the main purpose of using the base is a medical one, various drugs are added during or after their production according to the intended purposes. There is no limitation on the type of drug that can be used, provided that it can be absorbed percutaneously. Thus, the above mentioned drug includes both the drugs topically applied for local effects and those administered for systemic effects. The topical drugs include drugs administrated for the purpose of curing diseases on the skin surface or under the skin or for protective conditioning of the skin and display mainly local effects. The drugs for systemic administration are drugs absorbed from the skin surface where they are applied and reach the target tissue or organ via the circulation to display mainly systemic effects. Among such drugs are drugs which display effects on circulatory system, nerve system, endocrine system, respiratory system, metabolic system, urinary system, digestive system, etc., antimicrobial agent, anti tumor agent, vitamins, antidiabetics, enzymes, Chinese medicines, natural herb extract, etc. More specific examples of such drugs are as follows The drugs mentioned above can be used in combination if required. Moreover, the above drugs may be used either in the free form or, if capable of forming salts, in the form of a salt with a suitable acid or base. If the drugs have a carboxyl group, their esters can be employed. The acid mentioned above may be an organic acid, for example, methanesulfonic acid, lactic acid, tartaric acid, fumaric acid, maleic acid, acetic acid, or an inorganic acid, for example, hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, phosphoric acid, sulfuric acid. The base may be an organic base, for example, ammonia, triethylamine, or an inorganic base, for example, sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide. The esters mentioned above may be alkyl esters, aryl esters, aralkyl esters, etc. Among the said drugs, particularly those which act upon circulatory system, nervous system, endocrine system, respiratory system, anti microbial agents, enzymes etc. are preferably used as the drugs of this invention. As mentioned hereinbefore, this invention can be applied to any kind of drugs but the advantage of this invention is particularly remarkable for drugs which indicate practically no or little percutaneous absorption when administered alone, drugs of which bioavailability is low when administered orally, e.g. drugs of which bioavailability is less than 80 percent, drugs causing many side effects, drugs which require administration by injection because of their decomposition by digestive fluid or drugs which are easily effected by initial passage through liver. The concentration of the drug need only be that which exhibits the expected clinical effect, and in many instances ranges from 0.01 to 15 weight percent, preferably 0.05 to 10 weight percent, more preferably 0.05 to 5 weight percent,based on the weight of the whole composition. The dosage is adjusted according to the type of drug, object of medication, age and body weight of the patient, stage of disease, etc. When the ointment base of this invention is used for medical purpose, the ointment can be manufactured by adding the above mentioned drugs to the ointment base of this invention as the effective component. Thus obtained ointment can be applied in a necessary amount to the skin at various parts of the human body according to the purpose of use. For example, for the local treatment of an injury, skin ulcer, myalgia arthritis or arthritis of joint, etc., the above medicated base may be applied directly to the affected site or to the vicinity thereof. For systemic therapy for some organ or other within the body, it is preferably applied to an area from which the drug may be more readily absorbed, e.g. where the horny layer is not well developed. In cosmetic applications, the ointment base of this invention either as it is or as containing a suitable drug selected from among those mentioned or and further containing the known cosmetic ingredients, can be used for such purposes as cleansing the skin, as a pack, preventing sunburns or rough skin, moisturizing and so forth. The ointment base of this invention either as it is or as containing the above mentioned medical or and cosmetic components is preferably accommodated in sealed containers made of glass, plastic or metal tubing for the sake of convenience in storage and use. For the production of the ointment base according to this invention, conventional production processes can be utilized with minor modifications. In a typical process, i the water soluble protein and thickener are dissolved in a necessary amount of water, ii then substances selected from among said wetting agents, alcohols, emulsifiers, oleaginous substances, etc. are added to the above solution, and iii finally the whole mixture is stirred uniformly to give the desired ointment base. The above operation may be performed without addition of water. Generally speaking, when the desired product is a gel like base, the wetting agent and thickener are mainly used in the above step ii , while the wetting agent and emulsifier are mainly used when a creamy base is to be produced. The above mentioned steps i through iii may be performed at room temperature but some of the steps may be carried out, upon necessity, at a somewhat elevated temperature, for example about 30 C to 80 C and preferably about 30 C to 60 C at a part of the process. In many cases, it is rather advantageous from procedural points of view to conduct the process at slightly elevated temperatures. When a drug or the like is added, it is preferably done in the above mentioned step ii . The method for production of the ointment base of this invention will be described in further detail by way of the following examples. According to the formula given in Table 1, The above procedure gave a gel like ointment base. Separately, the same procedure as above was followed additionally using 1 g of ifenprodil tartrate in the above mentioned step 4 , whereby an ointment was obtained. According to the formula of Table 1 and by the same procedure as Example 1, a gel like ointment base was prepared. Separetely, in the following examples, ointments were prepared using the respective drugs shown below. According to the formula given in Table 2 and by the same procedure as Example 1, the objective ointment base was prepared. Separately, the same procedure as above was followed additionally using 0.3 g of clonidine hydrochloride to give the following three kinds of ointment. According to the formula given in Table 2, Separately the same procedure as above was followed additionally using 0.5 g of piroxicam in the above mentioned step 4 , to give an ointment. According to the formula given in Table 2, Separately the same procedure as above was followed additionally using 0.5 g of piroxicam in the above mentioned step 4 , to give an ointment. According to the formula given in Table 2 and following the same procedure as Example 23, ointment base and ointment containing 0.5 g of piroxicam were respectively prepared. According to the formula given in Table 2, Separately, the same procedure as above was followed additionally using 1 g of ifenprodil tartrate in the above mentioned step 5 , to give an ointment. Separately the same procedure as above was followed additionally using 1 g of ifenprodil tartrate in the above mentioned step 5 , to give an ointment. Separately the same procedure as above was followed additionally using 0.5 g of prazosin hydrochloride, to give an ointment. According to the formula of Table 2, Separately the same procedure as above was followed additionally using 0.3 g of clidanac in the above mentioned step 2 , to prepare an ointment. The ointment base of this invention prepared by the above method has great medical and industrial values, for it can be stored in a stable condition, gave a satisfactory feeling of use and, either as it alone or as formulated with the drug or and other active components, offers the following advantageous characteristics. The test examples of the ointment base of this invention are given below. The results are shown in Table 3. The above results indicate that as compared with the conventional ointment, the ointment base according to this invention ensures a release of drugs which is quicker and about twice as much. The dosage for both treatment groups was 20 mg kg once daily and the treatment was carried out for 3 consecutive days. Twenty four hours after the last dosing, 3 µg kg of norepinephirine was intravenously administered under pentobarbital sodium anesthesia dosage 40 mg kg intraperitoneal and the resulting pressor reaction was compared with that in the untreated control group. The results are shown in Table 4. It is apparent that although the application of the combination of the ointment base of this invention and the drug was a kind of percutaneous administration, it produced a drug effect inhibition of pressor reaction comparable to that of oral administration. The indomethacin containing ointment 2 g body of Example 4 containing 20 mg of indomethacin was applied onto the back of male albino rabbits b. wt. 2.4 2.8 kg clipped of hairs 24 hours before medication. During 0.5 7 hours following the application, 3 ml aliquots of blood were taken at timed intervals and the plasma separated by centrifugation was treated in accordance with the method of Arbin J. Chromatog., The results are set forth in Table 5. It is apparent that the drug was absorbed from the skin quickly and sustainedly. The clonidine hydrochloride containing ointment 2 g body of Example 2 containing 10 mg of clonidine hydrochloride was applied onto the back of male albino rabbits b. wt. 2.4 2.8 kg clipped of hairs 24 hours before medication. 7 hours after application, the drug remaining on the skin was wiped off with sanitary cotton. During 0.5 to 24 hours following the application, 3 ml aliquots of blood were taken at timed intervals and the plasma separated by centrifugation was treated in accordance with the method of Edlund et al Acta Pharmacol. Toxicol. The results are set forth in Table 6. It is apparent that the drug was absorbed from the skin quickly and sustainedly. The ointments of Example 22 a , b and c each containing 0.1 weight percent of clonidine hydrochloride and hydrophillic ointment described in the 10th revision of Japanese Pharmacopoeia JPX containing 0.1 weight percent of clonidine hydrochloride were used as the samples. Each 5 g of the above mentioned samples were applied to the same equipment as used in Test Example 1. Thus 1 ml aliquots of the buffer were taken at timed intervals and 0.25 ml of 10 sodium carbonate were added to each aliquot which was then extracted with 5 ml of ethylacetate dichloromethane mixed solution 1 9 by volume . The solvent was evaporated from the extract and the residue was dissolved in 0.3 ml of 75 acetonitrile to prepare an HPLC assay sample. The conditions of HPLC using the same equipment as in Test Example 1 were as follows Column packing, Nucleosil C18 product of Macherey Nagel, A.G. West Germany Mobile phase, acetonitrile 1 acetic acid containing 0.005 M 1 sodium heptane sulfonate 40 50 flow rate, 1.2 ml min measurement by absorbance at UV frequency of 280 nm. The results are shown in Table 7. The above results indicate that as compared with the above mentioned hydrophilic ointment, the ointment base according to this invention ensures the better release of the drug. The ointment described in Example 30 containing 0.3 weight percent of clidanac and a publicly known ointment, i.e., ointment containing 0.5 weight percent of clidanac, described in the Japanese Kokai 59 48413, were used as samples. The publicly known ointment was a gel like ointment containing no water soluble protein which was prepared as follows 1 0.7 g of Hiviswako 104 and 0.7 g of hydroxycellulose were put in 30 g of purified water to be caused to swell 2 0.5 g of clidanac was di solved in the mixture of 12 g of butylene glycol, 1.5 g of diisopropyl adipate and 30 g of ethanol 3 the solution 2 was added to the mixture 1 and stirred until the contents are completely hydrated 4 0.8 g of diisopropyl amine was dissolved in 10 g of purified water and the solution was added to the said mixture 3 and then the remaining water was added to make a total amount 100 g and the mixture was stirred to make total preparation homogenous, whereby the objective ointment was obtained. The above mentioned ointment was applied onto the back of male white rabbits,i.e. 3 to 4 rabbits each group, which were clipped of hairs for the area of 4 x 6 cm 24 cm² before medication. The dosage was set at 0.25 mg kg in terms of clidanac. After application of the ointment, aliquots of blood were taken at timed intervals and assayed for the concentration of clidanac released into the serum non degenerated clidanac by mass fragmentography. Thus 1 ml aliquot of the above mentioned serum was extracted twice with 5 ml of benzene heptane mixture 2 1 by volume . The solvent of the first extract was evaporated and the residue was dissolved into the second extract. Thus obtained solution was extracted twice with 2.5 ml of dilute sodium hydroxide, dilute sulfuric acid was added to the aqueous layer to acidify and the solution was extracted twice with 3 ml of benzene. The internal standard substance was added to thus obtained extract, the solvent was evaporated and the residue was reacted with 2 2 dichloroethanol at 65 C for 20 minutes under the presence of trifluoroacetic acid anhydride and the obtained derivative was assayed by MF method. The results are shown in Table 8. It is apparent from the above data that in comparison with the publicly known ointment, the ointment base of this invention displayed the performance to increase percutaneous absorption of the drug, and with less dosage it increased the bio availability of the drug about twice. Hairs on the back of male SD rats, i.e. 3 rats, body weight 250 to 325 g each group, were partially clipped off for the area of 3 x 3 cm 9 cm² and the below mentioned specimens A and B were applied to the whole clipped area. The dosage was 0.5 mg kg in terms of piroxicam. After dozing the above mentioned samples A and B , the serum concentration of piroxicam was assayed by fluorescent method frequency 370 nm according to the method described in the literature Shichikawa et al, Rheumatism Vol The results are shown in Table 9. The above results shows that the ointment base of this invention indicates about 1.8 times as high AUC value as that of the publicly known ointment and thus brings an increase of percutaneous absorption of the drug.