# IMMUNOSUPPRESSANT FACTOR

## Claims
Ein aus menschlichen Glioblastoma Zellen isolierter Immunsuppressionsfaktor, der

## Description
The present invention is concerned with an immunomodulatory factor. It is more particularly concerned with an immunosuppressant factor isolated from human glioblastoma cells. The immunosuppressant factor has influence on T cells. The role of T cells in cell mediated immunity e.g. by cooperation with B lymphocytes is well established. Substances which are capable of inhibiting T cell mechanisms involved in the generation of antibodies or in lysis of target cells would be used to suppress or reduce the body s immune response. Such substances could thus be employed e.g. in connection with transplants to prevent rejection and also in connection with the treatment of diseases characterised by an auto immune response in the body. We have now found that cultured human glioblastoma cells secrete a factor that inhibits IL 2 dependent T cell mechanisms. This factor has inhibitory effects and has the following features The immunosuppressant factor is capable of inhibiting T cell mechanisms particularly those which are Interleukin 2 IL 2 dependent. This factor has an inhibitory effect on IL 2 effects on thymocytes in the presence of lectins and on the induction of alloreactive cytotoxic T cells in mixed lymphocyte cultures MLC . IL 2 does not substitute for the inhibitor effect of the suppressor factor on the induction of the MLC. It further inhibits the growth of neuroblasts but not of fibroblasts. The glioblastoma cell derived suppressor factor was also found to inhibit the lectin response of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells isolated from blood donors. However, the inhibitory effect of the factor was maximal at sub optimal lectin concentrations. This factor can be obtained from the cystic fluid of glioblastoma tumors or from supernatant SN of cultured human glioblastoma cell lines and has an apparent approximate molecular weight of 97,000 and is also referred to herein as G TsF. Cultured human glioblastoma cells are characterised by ultrastructural features, especially the presence of filaments, and by biochemical markers, such as glial fibrillary acidic protein GFA and S 100 protein S.C. Diserens et al, Acta Neuropathol. One immunoregulatory mediator, a suppressor factor, was detected in the supernatant of glioblastoma cells. This factor inhibits the proliferative response of T cells to Con A concanavalin A or to both PHA Phytohemagglutinin and IL 1 IL 2 Interleukin 1 Interleukin 2 standards. The factor also blocks the proliferation of an H 2 restricted, hapten specific T cell line that normally grows in the presence of IL 2 Interleukin 2 and haptenated irradiated spleen cells. The glioblastoma derived suppressor factor has no effect on IL 2 production by Con A stimulated spleen cells and does not influence the growth of a thymoma cell line EL 4 cells , which proliferates independently of IL 2. Taken together, these results indicate that the factor interferes with terminal events in the T cell activation cascade. The hypothesis that this glioblastoma derived suppressor factor influences proliferative steps not necessarily involving direct direct IL 2 effects on T cells is based on the finding that the 97,000 m.w. factor does also inhibit the growth of neuroblasts, which grow independently of IL 2. Recently, the presence of immunosuppressive factors in the conditioned medium of various human tumor cells was investigated C.M. Renk et al, Cancer Immunol. Immunother. Depression of immune responsiveness has been documented in patients with glioblastoma W.H. Brooks et al, J. Exp. Med. Although it is well documented that in most glioblastoma patients, humoral immune responses to their tumors develop M. Pfreundschuh et al, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA The observed blocking of the generation of CTL by the glioblastoma cell derived 97.000 m.w. factor according to the invention may account at least in part for inefficient immunosurveillance against glioblastomas. Impaired host immunocompetence may also emanate from lymphokine induced production of mucopolysaccharide coats by glioblastoma cells that nonspecifically suppress the cellular immune response. G TsF is characterised by its activity spectrum as described above and in the examples hereinafter and its approximate molecular weight. Furthermore it is sensitive to tryptic proteolysis and had a peak of pI 4.6 on isoelectric focusing as hereinafter described. The factor of the invention can be purified effectively by a method which comprises concentrating the supernatant of a human glioblastoma cell line by ultrafiltration and subjecting same to sequential chromatography on Blue Affigel, hydroxyapatite and gel filtration. Purification can take place by various procedures such as conventionally used for the purification of cell factors. A particularly advantageous procedure involves successive chromatography of SN optionally with pre desalination using first Blue Affigel and then Hydroxyapatite followed by gel filtration e.g. on Ultrogel AcA54, or on Ultro Pac TSK G 3000 SWG. Other absorbents which can be used include Phenyl Sepharose, DEAE cellulose and Heparin affigel. Other methods include the use of suitable antibodies. In addition to its relevance for modulation of T cell activation the conditioned media of the glioblastoma is of interest for its neuroblast growth inhibitory factor NGIF like activity. NGIF is released by fetal rat glioblasts and exerts suppressor activities on neuroblasts but not on fibroblasts Y. Sakazaki et al, Brain Res. The following examples illustrate the invention. The following abbreviations are employed Four human glioblastoma cell lines are established and maintained in mono layer cultures by the method described in Diserens et.al., Acta Neuropathol. 53 21. Four cells lines used in the examples are designated C1 18 C1 229 992 and 308 and were maintained for 72, 28, 8 and 16 months respectively. Characterization of the glioblastoma cell lines revealed that cells from C1 229, 308 and 992 expressed Ia like antigens on their surface, cells from 308 and 992 were positive for glial fibrillary acidic protein GFA , and cells from C1 18, 308 and 992 expressed a neuroectodermal antigen identified by recently described monoclonal antibodies Acta Neuropathol. 57 158 Carrell S., et.al. For production of SN the glioblastoma cells were plated at 1 x 10⁴ to 1 x 10⁶ cells well 2.4 x 1.7 cm Linbro Scientific in culture medium consisting of Dulbecco s modified Eagle s medium DMEM , 10 fetal calf serum FCS , and 300 ug ml L glutamine. Twenty four hours after plating the glioblastoma cells, the medium was replaced with 0.5 ml culture medium. The SN were collected 1 to 5 days later, centrifuged 2000 x G. 10 min and ultrafiltrated by using a micropartition system with YMB membrane MPS.1, Amicon . The material deposited after centrifugation 1500 x G. 15 min on the membrane m.w. 10.000 , was resuspended in RPMI 1640 to give the original volume and passed through 0.45 µm filters. The following adsorbents were tested Bio Gel HTP hydroxyapatite , Blue Affigel, Heparin Affigel Bio Rad, Richmond, CA Phenyl Sepharose, ConA Sepharose, Protein A Sepharose Pharmacia, Uppsala, Sweden DEAE Cellulose, CM Cellulose Serva, Heidelberg, Germany . Each adsorbent was equilibrated in the appropriate adsorption buffer listed in Table I and the slurry was transferred to a disposable 5 ml plastic column Isolab, Akron, OH to give 0.2 ml of settled volume. After closing the column at the bottom, 0.5 ml of a G TsF standard activity 100 units was added and the slurry was kept in suspension overnight at 4 C on a rotating turn table. The column was then drained, and the effluent was desalted and assayed for protein content Lowry et.al., J. Biol. Chem 193 265 1951 and for G TsF activity using the Neuro 2A assay see below . The adsorbent was resuspended in the appropriate desorption buffer Table IV , kept in suspension for 2 hours at 4 C, drained and G TsF and protein content in the column effluent were determined as above. Overall recoveries were at least 80 . The 308 SN 150 ml was concentrated 6 fold by ultrafiltration through a 43 mm YM10 membrane Amicon, Danvers, MA and then rediluted to a volume of 50 ml by adding 10 mM Tris HCL, pH 7.5. The concentrate was applied at 4 C to a column of Blue Affigel 1.6 x 35 cm 70 ml bed volume at a flow rate of 48 ml hr. The column was eluted with a linear gradient 280 ml of 2 M NaCl in 10 mM Tris HCl, pH 7.5. The fractions containing G TsF activity as determined on ConA stimulated thymocytes 70 ml 1.0 1.5 M NaCl cf. Fig. 9 were pooled, diluted with 70 ml of 10 mM Na phosphate, pH 7.5, and applied at room temperature to a column of hydroxyapatite Bio Gel HTP 0.8 x 28 cm 14 ml at a flow rate of 12 ml hr. From here on, all fractions were collected in siliconized plastic tubes Maniatis et.al., Molecular cloning. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, New York, p. 437 . The column was eluted with a linear gradient 105 ml consisting of 10 mM Na phosphate, pH 7.5, 0.15 M NaCl start buffer and 0.5 M Na phosphate, pH 7.5 limit buffer . Each of the fractions 7.5 ml containing G TsF activity cf. Fig. 10 0.25 0.35 Na phosphate was applied in a separate run to a column of Ultrogel AcA 54 LKB, Bromma, Sweden 1,6 x 88 cm 176 ml which had been equilibrated at 4 C in 10 mM Tris HCl, pH 7.5, 0,15 M NaCl and calibrated with Blue Dextran v , bovine serum albumin BSA , ovalbumin, and cytochrome c Cyc . The column was eluted at 20 ml hr with the same buffer, and the fractions containing G TsF activity were pooled and stored at 20 C. Alternatively the fractions from the HTP column containing G TsF activity were concentrated by ultrafiltration through a YM10 membrane and further purified on a preparative HPLC gel filtration column TSK 3000 SWG LKB Bromma . Protein concentrations were determined with the amidoblack assay Schaffner, Weissmann Anal Biochem 56 514, 1973 or spectrophotometrically and salt concentration by conductivity. A sample of the G TsF 60 ml obtained after Example 3 Table V step 4 was concentrated by ultrafiltration through an Amicon YM10 membrane for partial removal of salt which interferes with formation of the pH gradient. The G TsF was then mixed with 85 ml Ultrodex 4 g preswollen in 100 ml H₂O , 2.5 ml Ampholines pH 3.5 5, and 2.5 ml Ampholines pH 5 8 all from LKB at 10W and 1 2000 V for 16 hr. After the run, the gel was sliced into 30 fractions, and their pH was determined with a surface glass electrode. Each fraction was transferred to a disposal 5 ml plastic column, and the proteins were eluted with 2 ml of 10 mM Tris HCl, pH 7.5, 0.15 M NaCl, desalted in Sephadex G50 columns to remove Ampholines, and assayed for G TsF activity using the ConA thymocyte assay see below . A peak was determined at p Samples of G TsF 0.2 ml obtained after Example 3 Table V step 3 were incubated for 1 hr at 370 C with 8 µg trypsin Worthington treated with L 1 tosylamido phenylethyl chloromethyl ketone , added either at the beginning or as a control at the end of the incubation period. Additional samples were incubated with Sepharose bound trypsin 0.2 ml settled gel Worthington or with an equivalent amount of RNase A coupled to Affigel 10 Bio Rad . The reactions were stopped by using the desalting protocol described above and then testing for G TsF activity in the ConA thymocyte assay. The results are shown in Table VI. Parallel incubations with 125 I labelled factor indicated a loss of protein by non specific adsorption to the Affigel 10, thus explaining the low recovery of G TsF activity from the RNAase column The effect of glioblastoma SN on the thymocyte proliferative response to concanavalin A Con A was tested in the following way. Samples of 50 µl of SN at various dilutions were added to 6 x 10⁵ thymocytes from C₃H HeJ mice thymocytes were suspended in 150 ul of RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 300 µg ml L glutamine. 1 x 10 ⁵ M 2 mercaptoethanol 2 ME . and 5 FCS in flat bottomed microtiter plates and incubated for 72 hours in the presence of Con A 1 µg well . Sixteen hours before harvest 0.5 µCi of ³H Tdr. 5.0 Ci mmol was added per well. The results are shown in Figures 1A and B as percent suppression compared with the Con A response of thymocytes treated with a medium control. For stadarisation purposes suppression can be plotted to give a standard curve from which conversion may be made to units of G TsF activity. In Figure 1A the SN of the four glioblastoma cell lines used were harvested after 1, 3 and 5 days and tested at a final dilution of 1 10 on the thymocytes. In Figure 1B the testing took place on SN of 308 cells harvested after culture for 5 days at different seeding densities and final dilutions. In the absence of glioblastoma SN or medium control the background count was 483 229 and the Con A response 76.797 6.631 cpm. The magnitude of inhibitory potency of the SN can be seen to be dependent on time of culture and cell density. In selected experiments on metabolic inhibition using 308 cells the production of SN was performed with irradiated 2000 R or mitomycin C treated 50 µg ml, 30 min. 37 C glioblastoma cells. Alternatively cycloheximide 10 ⁵M was added to glioblastoma cells at the beginning of the 72 hour culture cycloheximide was also added to control SN collected after 72 hours. These SN were ultrafiltrated three times before testing to remove CH. The results of these experiments are summarised in Figure 2, where the SN of 10⁶ cells cultured over 5 days were employed. As a CH control the SN of CH treated 308 cells and of 308 SN supplemented with CH after collection were ultrafiltrated. In a further control, experiments were carried out on four established human tumor cell lines unrelated to glioblastoma cells. These results are summarised in Table 1. It will be noted that the release of immunosuppressive factors does not appear to be a general property of cultured tumor cells. Analysis of the L arginine content in 308 SN revealed that inhibition is not due to arginine degradation in the medium by an arginase release by 308 cells. Furthermore, the 308 mediated inhibition could not be explained by the production of interferon as no antiviral activity was detected in 308 SN. Mouse fibroblasts A9, 3T3, LS cell lines were cultured in DMEM supplemented with L glutamine 300 ug ml and 10 FCS mouse neuroblasts Neuro 2A, NB4, 1A3 cell lines were plated in Earle s minimum essential medium with 10 FCS. L glutamine 300 ug ml , and 1 nonessential amino acids 100x . Fibroblasts and neuroblasts 10⁴ cells well were incubated in 0.2 ml of medium for 72 hours. For the final 6 hours, the cells were pulsed with 1.2 µCi of ³H Tdr. Thereafter, the medium was aspirated from each well, replaced with trypsin EDTA. and incubated 37 C, 10 min . Finally, the cells were harvested with the use of an automated harvester. The data in Table II indicate that when compared with its effect on thymocytes, the 308 SN was less inhibitory on B cell proliferation the percentage of inhibition of the LPS induced stimulation of spleen cells was 29 , whereas the corresponding value for the myeloma cell line X63 Ag8 was 21 . There was no difference in thymidine uptake between fibroblast cultures containing 308 SN and those being supplemented with a medium control. This was true for all three fibroblast cell lines tested. In contrast, the gliobalstoma SN singificantly suppressed the growth of the two neuroblast cell lines as measured by the uptake of ³H Tdr Fig.3, Table II and by counting the number of cells at termination of the 72 hr cultures. Twenty four, 48 and 72 hr after culturing 1 x 10⁴ Neuro 2A cells well, the cell numbers x 10⁴ well of quadruplicate cultures were in the presence of the 308 SN 0.98 0.17 24 hr ,1.80 0.36 48 hr , and 4.3 0.44 72 hr , whereas the corresponding values for the medium controls were 0.88 0.05, 2.55 0.06, and 6.08 0.40, respectively. In Figure 3 the SN of 10⁶ glioblastoma cells 308 cultured for 5 days were employed together with a medium control. Thymocytes were treated with 308 SN final dilution of 1 10 in the presence of PHA 0.5 ug well and various dilutions 1 10 in 1 160 of IL 1 or IL 2. In the absence of interleukins the background count was 209 84 and the PHA response was 3074 425. The results are summarised in Table III. These results show that inhibition of the Con A response of thymocytes apparently results from influences on late events of the T cell activation cascade, because the 308 SN inhibited the proliferative response of thymocytes stimulated with PHA in the presence of IL 1 or IL 2. The degree of 308 SN induced suppression of proliferation was similar at various concentrations of IL 1 or IL 2 employed. Proliferation of H 2 The results are shown in figure 4. Hapten specific cloned CTL were cultured at 10⁴ cells alone R or together with 10⁶ irradiated 2000 rad AED haptenated spleen cells as stimulators S black bar . Various dilutions 1 8 to 1 128 of 308 glioblastoma SN or a 1 8 dilution of control medium were added to the mixture of CTL and cultured for 72 hr. Data are given as counts per minute of ³H Tdr incorporation. Figure 4 shows that cells of an H 2 restricted, hapten specific T cell line proliferated in the presence of IL 2 and haptenated, irradiated spleen cells as stimulator cells. This proliferation was completely blocked by adding the glioblastoma produced factor. From the experiments outlined above, the inhibition of T cell growth by glioblastoma cell derived factors could be due to their direct interference with IL 2 triggered events leading to T cell proliferation. This possibility is supported further by the finding that the 308 SN had no effect on the growth of a thymoma cell line that grows independently of IL 2 Table II . The release of analogous inhibitory factors by the glioblastoma cells in vivo was demonstrated by testing the ultrafiltrated cyst fluid of the patient from whom the 308 cells originated. The cyst fluid final dilution 1 20 , ultrafiltrated on YMB membranes, induced a 28 inhibition of the IL 2 induced proliferation of OVA T cells, whereas 12 control sera had no effect. Anti H 2 The results are summarized in Fig. 5A D. b 308 SN diluted 1 10 A D . 1 100 or 1 1000 A or with c Sephacryl S 200 column fractions that were known to inhibit or to have no effect on the IL 2 dependent proliferation of OVA T cells. The fractions to be assayed were concentrated 10 x on YMB membranes, and the concentrated fractions were added to MLC medium to give a final dilution of 1 10. Results are given as percent specific ⁵¹Cr release. Test duration 3 hr. Mean values of three samples. The data indicate a 308 SN induced inhibition of the generation of CTL. The inhibitory effect is mediated by factors with an apparent molecular weight of 97,000. The preparation and testing of Sephacryl S 200 column fractions is described below . As shown in figure 6 the addition of IL 2 together with the 308 SN factor did not restore the generation of CTL. A 2 hr preincubation of mature CTL with 308 SN had no influence on the function of CTL on their targets. In Fig. 6 A during the entire culture period of 6 days, IL 2 final concentration of 10 Con A SN was present in MLC treated with 308 SN 1 10 diluted or medium control After 6 days the CTL activity was tested on EL 4 cells. In B. before testing on EL 4 cells, CTL generated over 6 days in culture medium were preincubated for 2 hr in medium control or 308 SN 1 4 diluted . The 308 glioblastoma SN obtained from 308 cells cultured in serum free conditions over 96hr was concentrated 30 fold by ultra filtration on YM 10 Amicon membrane, and 1.5 ml of concentrated SN was applied on a Sephacryl S 200 column size 2.5 x 85 cm at 4 C as described 9 . The eluate collected in 2.5 ml fractions was monitored for adsorbance at 280 nm and was tested on fibroblasts L 929 and neuroblasts Neuro 2 A as described above. In addition the fractions were tested on OVA cells in the presence of IL2 and on thymocytes stimulated with PHA. The column, in a parallel run, was calibrated with γ globulin γ Glob. m.w. 150.000 . bovine serum albumin BSA. m.w. 67.000 , ovalbumin OVA, m.w. 45.000 , α chymotrypsinogen CHY. m.w. 25.000 , and cytochrome c CYT C. m.w. 12.400 . These results are summarized in figure 7 whereby the upper table shows the calibration run. Results are given as stimulation index SI comparing proliferation of cells treated with column fractions to cells treated with medium control. Results of serum free control medium fractionated on a Sephacryl S 200 column are shown on OVA cells treated with IL 2 The peak of the inhibitory activity on neuroblasts and OVA cells was eluted from the column at the identical position, with an apparent m.w. of 97.000 Fig. 7 . Sephacryl S 200 fractions of a medium control consisting of DMEM Fig. 7 and a medium control supplemented with 10 FCS data not shown had no inhibitory effects on the growth of OVA cells stimulated with IL 2. Furthermore, no inhibitory effect was observed when testing 308 SN fractions on fibroblasts. As evidenced in the previous examples the immunosuppressant factor according to the invention is indicated for use in the treatment of diseases and conditions where suppression of the body s immune response is desired. Thus use in connection with transplant operations to prevent rejection is indicated. Examples of diseases where suppressions body s immune systems is indicated include the so called auto immune diseases. For such use as daily dosage of about 10 to 2000 µg e.g. 200 to 1000 µg per patient is typically indicated. The factor according to the invention can be employed in mixed form as purified supernatant from appropriate glioblastoma cell lines or in fractionated and purified form as hereinbefore described. It can be got up in suitable form for administration in a manner conventional for substances of this nature in accordance with the condition to be treated. It can thus be injected intravenously in a suitable pharmacological carrier.