# Pharmaceutical composition containing tetracyclin or doxycyclin salts and a process of preparing such a composition.

## Abstract
Pharmaceutical composition containing tetracyclin or one or more doxycyclin salts and a solic basic substance.

## Claims
C L A I M S 1. A process for the preparation of a pharmaceutical administration form, which contains tetracyclin or doxycyclin salts, characterized in that a solid basic substance is incorporated in the administration form as well. 2. A process according to claim 1, characterized in that sodium hydrogen carbonate is incorporated as the basic substance. 3. A pharmaceutical composition containing tetracyclin or one or more doxycyclin salts, characterized in that it contains a solid basic substance as well. 4. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 3, characterized in that it contains sodium hydrogen carbonate.

## Description
PHARMACEUTCIAL COMPOSITION, CONTAINING TETRACYCLINOR DOXYCYCLIN SALTSThe invention relates to a pharmaceutical compositon containing tetracyclin or doxycyclin salts.There are various medicines which may cause a gullet ulcer in that the administration form tends to keep sticking in the gullet, particularly in case of an anatomic defect. Then, a local high concentration of medicine occurs, which results in an ulcer. In order to avoid this it is often recommended to swallow the medicine in standing or sitting position with a sufficient amount of liquid. Medicines with great ulcerous risks are amongst others tetracyclin and doxycyclin salts, emepromium bromide, potassium chloride, alprenolol, iron salts and various analgetics and anti flogistic analgetics. Solutions of tetracyclin and doxycyclin salts have a low pH value and this acid property is a considerable ulcerous factor.The problems connected herewith are paid attention to in publications and literature articles, i.a.in Current Therapeutic Research 34, 110 1983 ,J. Pharm. Sc. 71, 975 1982 and Ph. Wkbl. 117, 1022 1982 . It is usual to administer tetracyclin and doxycyclin salts in gelatin capsule form. Recently in view of the great risks of the sticking to the gullet wall various attempts have been made to prevent gullet damage.They consist of the use of tablets as administration form, although the sticking capacity may differ dependent upon the auxiliary substances used and the size of the tablet.Granulate or powder which is dissolved in water before being swallowed is also applied as administration form.Finally, in particular the doxycycline is also administered as a base, which is insoluble in water.Now the invention aims at providing a pharmaceutical composition containing tetracyclin or doxycyclin salts, which administration form makes it possible to apply the active substances in question as a medicine without the risk that the gullet ulcer will appear.The coEposition in question is characterized in that a solid basic substance is incorporated therein.If the solid administration form, either capsule, tablet or coated tablet, would keep sticking in the gullet, the tetracyclin or doxycyclin salt will react with the basis substance because of the entering of moist, in consequence of which the acidic nature is neutralized and the risk of gullet damage is prevented. As soon as the doxycyclin, c.q. tetracyclin lands in the stomach as a free base, it is converted into the soluble form again by the acidic medium, so that the biological availability of the medicine remains unchanged. The coated tablet form as administration form is preferred to capsule or tablet, in view of the least sticking capacity in the gullet.Preferably, a basic substance is used having a low molecular weight, so that the size of the tablet can remain as small as possible.Some suitable basic substances are sodium hydrogen carbonate, dipotassium hydrogen phosphate, disodium hyrogen phosphate and sodium citrate.The use of sodium hydrogen carbonte provides the additional advantage, that the bubbling effect during the neutralization of the product maintains a dispersion as fine as possible.However, the physical separation of the dry forms of the components has to be guaranteed in order to prevent early interaction during preservation.Some examples of a pH of a 10 solution of the doxycyclin sodium metaphosphate complex with equivalent amounts of basic substances are 1. no addition PH 2.7 2. sodium hydrogen carbonate 5.9 3. dipotassium hydrogen phosphate 5.1 4. sodium citrate 5.2 5. sodium hydrogen phosphate PH 5.5The following example further elucidates the addition of a basic substance, in particular of sodium hydrogen carbonate. Example A mixture of 3.0 kg doxycyclin sodium metaphosphate complex and O.S amylum is granulated in ethanol in a suspended bed granulator by means of a sprinkling process with a solution of hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose. Thereupon this granulate is mixed with 0.4 kg sodium hydrogen carbonate and the granulation process is continued by sprinkling with the ethanolic solution of hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose. The granulate thus obtained is mixed with tallow, magnesium stearate and colloidal silicon dioxide.Herefrom tablets of 230 imgs are compressed having a content of 150 nig of doxycyclin sodium metaphosphate complex equivalent of 105 mg of doxycyclin base per tablet.The tablets are then coated in a known manner by means of a coating suspension consisting of a sugar solution, to which a pigment, for instance titanium dioxide, has been added.