# High pressure sodium vapour discharge lamp.

## Abstract
In a high pressure sodium vapour discharge lamp according to the invention, an emitter 19 is used which comprises stron tium yttrate. It has been found that the lamp has a comparatively long life. This becomes clearly manifest in a low power lamp which during operation emits white light.

## Description
High pressure sodium vapour discharge lamp . The invention relates to a high pressure sodium vapour discharge lamp provided with a lamp vessle sealed in a vacuum tight manner and containing sodium, mercury and rare gas, while current supply conductors are passed through the wall of the lamp vessel to a pair of electrodes having a strontium containing emitter. Such a lamp is known form Britisch Patent Specification 2,051,470 PHN 9472 . The known lamp isconstructedso that it emits during operation substantially white light , i.e. light having a colour temperature lying between approximately 2250 and approximately 2750 K and a general colour rendition index Ra8 lying between approximately 60 and approcimately 85. The emitter of the electrodes contains oxygen bound strontium and oxygen bound tungsten in a molar ratio of 3 to 50. This emitter is used in the known lamps because such an emitter counteracts the extraction of sodium from the discharge. In high pressure sodium vapour discharge lamps producing white light , the temperature of the sodium amalgam in the lamp is higher during operation and sodium is extracted from the discharge at a higher rate than in high pressure discharge lamps emitting goldcoloured light. This can be explained in that chemical reactions forming sodium comPounds and thus extracting sodium from the discharge proceed more rapidly as the temperature in the lamp is higher. The temperature of the sodium amalgam in high pressure sodium lamps also increases as their power is lower. This is due to the smaller dimensions of low power lamps. The temperature of the sodium amalgam in a high pressure sodium lamp of 50 W emitting white light is approximately 1200 K. In the known lamps, the extraction of sodium is counteracted by the use of the said emitter. However, it has been found that in lamps producinq white light having a very low power, for example 50 W, and hence at high temperature, sodium is still extracted from the discharge at such a high rate that the lamps have a life too short for practical use. The invention has for its object to provide a high pressure sodium lasp which, even if it is designed to emit white light at very low power, has a longer life sufficient for practical use. According to the invention this object is achieved in a high pressure sodium vapour discharge lamp of the kind mentioned in the opening paraqaaab in that the emitter comprises strontium yttrate. It has been found that the lamp according to the invention, even if it is designed so that during operation very high temperatures prevail in it, such as, for example, a lamp generating white light and consuming 50 W, has a oonsiderably loner life sufficient for practical use. The end of the life of high pressure sodium lamps is attained when the voltage across the lamp has increased to such an extent that the lamp extinguishes or, in lamps designed to emit white light , when the oolour point of the emitted light shifts to outside the range in the oolour triangle within which the light is white .Both this shift of the oolour point and the increase of the lamp voltage are caused by the fact that the ratio Na Hg in the filling of the lamp decreases as a result of sodium being extracted the the filling. The range in the colour triangle within which the light of a high pressure sodium lamp is called white is bounded by the lines x 8 0.460, x 0 495, y 0.408 and y 0.425. According to more stringent standards based on the better acceptance of the light as white light by subjects tested, the range in the colour triangel within the light is called white is bounded by the lines x 0.468, x 0.490, y 0.408 and y 0.425. The e colour temperature then lies between about 2300 and about 2700 K and the general colour rendition index Ra8 lies between about 70 and about 85. The high pressure sodium lamp according to the invention is obtained inter alia by immersing electrodes in a suspension ofSrCO3 and Y2O3. After they have been dried, the electrodes are heated to form the emitter in situ. A heating at about 16000C for a few, for example t no, minutes in vacua or in a inert gas is sufficient to this end. tyre emitter has the advantage that it is highly resistant to the action of moisture so that electrodes provided with the emitter can be snnipulated in contact with the prevailing atmosphere. In the formation of the emitter, instead of strontium carbonate another strontium salt, such as the formiate maybe utilized or, for example, strontium hydroxide or peroxide may be used. A further possibility is to use a number of stontium compounds. The lamp according to the invention mostly has a ceramic lamp vessel, i.e. a lamp vessel of mono or polycrystalline material, such as, for example, aluminium oxide. The lamp vessel may have, if the lamp has to emit white light, a gas filling containing a sodium amalgam whose weight ratio Na Hg is 1 1 9, while the pressure of the rare gas, for example xenon and or argon and or neon, at 300 K is 1.3 x 103 1.3 x 105 Pa. The sodium pressure during operation is then 4 x 10 10.7 x 104 Pa. An embodiment of the lamp according to the invention will now be described more fully with reference to the drawing and the example.In the drawing Fig. 1 is a side elevation of a high pressure sodium vapour discharge lamp partly broken away Fig. 2 is a longitudinal sectional view of an end of the lamp vessel of Fig. 1. In Fig. 1, a ceramic lamp vessel 3 sealed in a vacuum tight manner is arranged in a glass outer bulb 1 provided with a lamp cap 2 and between current supply conductors 4 and 5. Niobium sleeves 6 and 7 conduct the current through the wall of the lamp vessel to the electrode pair. The current supply conductor 5 is passed with a certain amount of clearance into the niobium sleeve 6.A good electrical contact between these two parts is guaranteed by aLitze wire 8. A vacuum, which is maintained by the barium getter evaporated from the ring 9, prevails in the outer bulb. A glow starter 10 is arranged in the outer bulb in series with a bi metal switch 11, which together shunt the discharge path in the discharge vessel 3. Upon ignition of the lamp, a glow discharge is obtained in the glow starter 10. After this glow discharge has been extinguished due to increase in tempera ture in the glow starter, a voltage pulse is produced across the discharge vessel 3, which causes the lamp to ignite. The heat emitted by the discharge opens the bi metal switch 11. In Fig. 2, the lamp vessel 3 is sealed at its end by a ring 15 of ceramic material. A niobium sleeve 6 is passed through the ring 15 and is connected to it by a melt connection material 16, for example consisting of 32.6 of A1203, 50.4 of CaO, 4.2 of BaO, 10.3 of MgO, 0.1 of SrO, 1.8 of B2O3, 0.5 of SiO2, 0.1 of Na2O or of 20.1 ofAl2O3, 69.4 of CaO, 6.0 of BaO, 3.5 of MgO, 1.0 of B2O3 mo1. .The sleeve 6 has welded to it a tungsten electrode 17, onto which a tungsten wire 18 is wound which surrounds an emitter 19.Example. In a practical case, a discharge vessel has an inner diameter of 3,5 mm and an inner lenght of 25 mm. The distance between the tips of the elect was 15 mm. 2 mg of emitter was provided on each of the electrodes in the cavities of the wire turns. The discharges vessel contanned 10 mg of sodium amalgam with a ratio Na Hg of 0.375 and xenon up to a pressure of 104 Pa at room temperature. During operation the lamp consumed a power of 50 W. Such lamps provided with different emitters were tested accor ding to the schedule 5.5 hours on , 0,5 hour off . It has been found that the lamps tested according to this schedule reach the end of their life after a smaller number of hours in operation as a result of an increase of the lamp voltage than with the use of the schedule 0.5 hours on , 0.5 bours off or with continuous operation. In a first series of lamps I , electrodes were used which were immersed in a suspension of 290 g of SrCO3, 220 g of Y203, 100 ml of monoethylglycol ether, 60 ml of butylacetate and 5 g of cellulose nitrate. The electrodes were dried and mere then heated in vacuo for 2 minutes at 1590 C. Sry2O4 was then formed. For comparison, in a second series of lamps II , electrodes were used to which a suspension of 155 g of SrCO3, 55 ml of ethylglycol, 23 ml of ethyl alcohol, 5 n1 of butylacetate and 1.5 g of nitrocellulose was applied. After the suspension has been dried, the electrodes were heated in vacuo for 2 minutes at 1450 C. The molar ratio of Sr and W in the emitter was about 10. The experimental results with these lamps are stated in the following table.EMI4.1 tb Series SEP V1a SEP V SEP x y SEP V1a SEP V SEP x,y SEP life tb L SEP hr tb SEP after SEP 100 SEP hr SEP after SEP .. SEP hr tb SEP I SEP 81 SEP 0.483 SEP 0.418 SEP 88 SEP 0.486 SEP 0.414 SEP 3000 SEP L SEP 3000 tb SEP II SEP 85 SEP 0.477 SEP 0.417 SEP 89 SEP 0.487 SEP 0.411 SEP 1500 SEP 1500 L 2000 tb V1a voltage across the lamp. In this experiment, the criterion was applied that, when the colour point of the emitted light from 50 of the number of lamps tested arrives outside the region bounded by the lines x 0.468, x 0.490, y 0.408 and y 0.425, the end of the life is reached. The lamps of series I were measured after 3000 operating hours.Out of seven lamps utilized, five lamps has a colour point in the said range. The average value of the colour point of these five lamps is indicated in the table. The experiment was terminated at that instant. The lamps of series II were measured after 1500 operating hours. Out of nineteen lamps utilized, thirteen were then left having the average colour point stated in the table. After 2000 operating hours, only four lamps were left. A higi pressure sodium vapour discharge lamp provided with a ceramic discharge vessel sealed in a vacuum tight manner and containing sodium, mercury and a rare gas, while current supply oonductors are passed through the wall of this lamp vessel to an electrode pair which has a strontiumroontaining emitter, characterized in that the emitter comprises strontium yttrate.