# Deep frying device.

## Abstract
Deep frying device 1 comprising a frame 2 , a container 5 for a deep frying fluid connected to the frame 2 and open at the upper side, a gas burner 8 positioned below a bottom surface 19 of the container 5 and discharge means 15 for discharging combustion gases 17 . The container 5 is cast from an aluminium alloy, the bottom surface 19 at the side directed to the gas burner 8 being provided with cast surface area increas ing elements 22 , and the inside surface 27 coming into contact with the deep frying fluid as hardened by a surface treatment.

## Claims
Claims 1. Deep frying device 1 comprising a frame 2 , a container 5 for a deep frying fluid connected to the frame 2 and open at the upper side, a gas burner 8 positioned below a bottom surface 19 of the container 5 and discharge means 15 for discharging combustion gases 17 , c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the container 5 is cast from an aluminium alloy, the bottom surface 19 at the side directed to the gas burner 8 being provided with cast surface area increasing elements 22 , and in that the inside surface 27 coming into contact with the deep frying fluid is hardened by a surface treatment. 2. Device according to claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the surface area increasing elements 22 are radially extending ribs 23 . 3. Device according to claim 1 or 2, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the discharge means 15 comprise a wall 37 cast to the container 35 and extending over a considerable part of the periphery of the container 35 to below the level of the bottom surface.

## Description
Deep frying device The invention relates to a deep frying device comprising a frame, a container for a deep frying fluid connected to the frame and open at the upper side, a gas burner positioned under a bottom surface of the container and discharge means for discharging combustion gases. Gas fired deep frying pans of this kind are generally known and are especially professionally. Warming up of the deep frying fat or oil in the container which is usually made of stainless steel sheet, takes considerable time. Also bringing the fat to the right temperature again, after that a product to be deep fried is put in, takes some time. The invention has for its object to provide a deepfrying device of the kind set forth above, having a shorter warming up time. With a deep frying device according to the invention this is achieved in that the container is cast from an aluminium alloy, the side of the bottom face directed towards the gas burner being provided with cast surface area increasing elements, and in that the inner surface, coming into contact with the deep frying fluid, is hardened by a surface treatment. Despite the fact that the wall thickness of a cast container is greater than that of a container of stainless steel sheet, a considerably shorter warming up time is achieved. As with a container according to the invention a very good heat transport occurs in the container itself, the container gets a very even temperature. Because of this with the gas burner more heat can be supplied without the danger that locally in the wall of the container too high a temperature occurs, overheating the deep frying fat in contact therewith. An additional advantage is that the product to be deep fried is sooner ready, because the decrease in temperature of the fat by the putting in the of cold product, is compensated fast. Further advantages of the device according to the invention are that the fat has a longer life as no overheating occurs. Also because of the especially even and low temperature of the heated container wall, a relatively small quantity of fat can suffice, as no buffer volume for preventing overheating is necessary. This additionally contributes to a shorter warmin up time. The deep frying device according to the invention also has a high efficiency. Especially if the surface area increasing elements are radially extending ribs, a vast energy saving is achieved with regard to the known devices. It has been established that with a deep frying device embodied in this way, 20 to 25 less gas is used, whereas the advantages mentioned above are still achieved. An eSbodirent of the deep frying device according to the invention which is favourable in view of manufacturing technique, is achieved when according to another aspect of the invention the discharge means comprise a wall cast to the container and extending over a considerable part of the periphery of the container to below the level of the bottom surface. In this way a separate combustion gas case around the container is superfluous, so that the number of parts of the deepfrying device is reduced strongly. The invention will be further illustrated hereinafter, with reference to examples of embodiments of the device according to the invention, shown in the drawing. Fig. 1 is perspective view of a deep frying device according to the invention, with parts broken away. Fig. 2 is a part sectional view of the device of Fig. l, according to a plane transverse to the frontside thereof. Fig. 3 is a bottom view of only the container of the deep frying device, according to line III III in Fig. 2. Fig. 4 shows another embodiment of a container according to the invention. The deep frying device 1 of Fig. 1 comprises a frame 2 in the form of a case, which at the front side is provided with a pivoting door 3. In the case 2 a horizontal mounting surface 4 is formed, in which a container 5 for deep frying fat is mounted. According to the invention the container is made by casting from an aluminium alloy. A flange 13 is cast to the container. The container 5 rests with the flange 13 on the mounting surface 4, and is connected therewith by means of bolts. The frame 2 further comprises an upper surface 6, a downfolded edge 7 of which engages in the opening of the container 5. Below the bottom surface of the container 5 a gas burner 8 is positioned. Gas is supplied to this burner from a gas conduit 10 through a control valve. At the front side of the case 2 a number of controls 11 known as such are provided, such as controls for adjusting the desired temperature of the deep frying fat, and controls for a pilot flame. The combustion gases produced by the gas burner 8, which gases are shown with arrows 17 in Figs. 1 and 2, are discharged from the case by discharging means 15. The deepfrying device 1 can be positioned under an exhaust hood, further discharging the combustion gases out. The discharge means 15 comprise a combustion gas case 16 extending around the container. The bottom surface 19 of the container 5 slopes downward to the middle. In the middle of the bottom surface a sink hole 18 is formed, in which a crumb tray 21 is placed.Small parts of the products to be fried which remain in the container accumulate in the crumb tray 21 which can be taken out of the sink hole 18 and emptied regularly. Under in the sink hole 18 a screw plug 20 is arranged. When the fat has to be replaced the screw plug 20 is unscrewed, whereafter the fluid fat in the container can flow into a bucket positioned below the container. This bucket 12 is shown in Fig. 1 with broken lines. As the container of the deep frying device according to the invention is cast, the corners 28 therein simply can be made rounded. For cleaning the container after draining of the fat, this is very favourable. The inside surface 27 of the container is hardened with a surface treatment known as such. This treatment, for aluminium known under the name nhard coating , provides a scratchproof and wear resistant inner surface. Furthermore, the aluminium treated in this way is insensitive for corrosion by the deepfrying fat. To the bottom surface 19 of the container 5 surface area increasing elements 22 are cast. For instance these ele ments can be pens or ribs. According to the preferred embodiment shown in the Pigures, the surface area increasing elements 22 are formed by ribs 23 extending in radial direction.These ribs provide a very good heat exchange between the hot combustion gases of the gas burner 8 and the wall of the container 5. In Fig. 2 furthermore is shown that in the container 5 a support 24 is cast, in which channels are drilled for receiving temperature sensors 29, 30. These temperature sensors operate in a way known as such for the thermostatic control of the tetperature of the deep frying fat and for an overheating safety. The container 35 shown in section in Fig. 4, substantially corresponds to the container 5 of the device 1 described above. The container 35 also comprises a mounting flange 36, with which it can be mounted in a frame. With this preferred eiodiment a wall 37 is cast to the mounting flange 36, which wall 37 extends over a considerable part of the periphery of the container, to below the level of the bottom surface thereof. This wall 37 functions as the wall 16 of the combustion gas case in the device of Fig. 1. By embodying the container 35 in this way, the number of parts of the deep frying device according to the invention is reduced, so that the assembling and, because of that, the manufacturing costs of the device according to the invention can be reduced. Although the examplary embodiments of the deep frying device according to the invention have a container with a rectangular ground form, the container can also be formed with a round ground form, as is also current.