# CATION REORDERED, BISMUTH CONTAINING PEROVSKITES

## Claims
Bismut enthaltende Verbindung mit einer Perowskit artigen Struktur und der Formel

## Description
This invention relates to a class of cation reordered, bismuth containing compounds having a perovskite type structure useful in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions and a process for their preparation. In addition, the invention relates to a process for selectively producing aromatic compounds from acyclic olefins, preferably propylene and isobutylene. During a typical petroleum refining operation large quantities of low molecular weight paraffins and olefins are produced. Unlike paraffins which may be sold for fuels, olefins have undesirable combustion properties which hamper their potential use as fuels. Thus,much research effort has been directed to upgrading the olefins, either for use as fuel or as chemical intermediates in the chemical industry. For those olefins containing three and four carbon atoms much research has been directed toward obtaining reaction products such as dimer and aromatic products having greater potential commercial value, with bismuth oxide representing a conventional oxidation catalyst, particularly for producing dimers. Oxidative conversions of unsaturated hydrocarbons have recently been conducted using various catalyst combinations. A recently published comprehensive review article on oxidative dehydrogenation of olefins is E.A. Mamedov, In accordance with this invention a novel class of cation reordered, bismuth containing compounds having a perovskite type structure of the formula The above class of compounds may be prepared by heating a first precursor compound represented by the formula The class of compounds herein, which are stable in air to at least 600 Specifically, most of the cation reordered materials of this invention show nearly 100 selectivity for converting propylene to benzene at 510 In the drawings The class of cation reordered bismuth containing compounds of the present invention are found by x ray diffraction analysis to have the perovskite type structure as described in A. F. Wells, Structural Inorganic Chemistry, Fourth Edition, Chapter 4, Clarendon Press 1975 , and incorporated herein by reference. The first precursor compounds, Ba₂LayBi The x ray pattern obtained for the conventional class of compounds Ba₂La The cation reordered compounds of the present invention are prepared by heating the first fully oxidized precursor compound which is conventionally ordered and which can be prepared by any of the convenient methods previously described in the presence of an amount of oxygen effective for a particular temperature to obtain a second precursor compound which is an oxygen deficient perovskite type structure of the formula Ba₂La The temperature at which the first precursor compound is heated is likewise dependent on many factors such as the type of first precursor compound and the amount of oxygen present. At minimum, the temperature should be about 600 The second precursor compound thus obtained is then oxidized to form the cation reordered product by heating the compound at a temperature of from 250 The cation reordered compound of this invention can be converted to an ordering similar to that of the conventionally ordered fully oxidized compound by heating in flowing oxygen at a temperature of at least about 800 The novel compounds of the present invention are particularly useful for the selective production of aromatic products from C₃ and C₄ acyclic olefins. The process comprises contacting the acyclic olefin in the essential absence of oxygen and at a temperature of about 425 The acyclic olefins capable of being converted to higher molecular weight aromatic compounds are C₃ C₄ terminally or internally unsaturated linear or branched olefins such as, for example, propylene, 1 butene, 2 butene, isobutylene or mixtures of the same. The preferred olefins herein are propylene, which is selectively converted to benzene, and isobutylene, which is selectively converted to para xylene. Although the catalysis reaction hereof can be conducted in the presence of oxygen, it is desirable to keep the amount of oxygen at a minimum. It is preferred that less than 5 volume , more preferably less than 1 volume of oxygen be present. It is most preferred to carry out the catalysis reaction under substantially anaerobic conditions. The volume percents are based on the total volume of gases. In the typical process herein a feedstock containing the olefin substrate is passed through a bed containing the catalyst the cation reordered compound of this invention , which is preferably unsupported. An inert diluent gas such as nitrogen, methane, helium, argon, or the like is preferably added to the feedstock containing the olefinic hydrocarbon to minimize risk of explosion and complete oxidation of the olefin. Typically, the feedstock contains at most 5 olefin with the remainder being helium gas. A temperature of 425 The duration of the reaction is governed by such factors as, for example, the temperature, the amount and type of catalyst, and the rate at which the feedstock passes through the catalyst bed, which is preferably 10 cm³ min. to 50 cm³ min. for a bed diameter of about 2 cm, but may be varied in accordance with the specific conditions employed. If the rate is too fast, of course, there will be a significant decrease in conversion of the feed, whereas if the rate is too slow, undesirable by reactions may begin to occur. After the reaction has proceeded for such a period of time that the catalyst has lost a significant amount of its lattice oxygen but prior to any destruction of the complex for example, at 450 The aromatic product may be recovered by any suitable manner known in the art. The invention is further described in the examples which follow. In the examples, all parts and percentages are by weight, and all temperatures are in A mixture of 12.000g Ba NO₃ ₂, 16.701g Bi NO₃.5H₂O and 1.870g La₂O₃ was heated in air to 400 The x ray diffraction data for the first precursor and for the cation reordered material obtained by re oxidation at 600 A mixture of 10.454g of Ba NO₃ ₂, 16.974g of Bi NO₃ ₃.5H₂O and 0.815g of La₂O₃ was heated as described in Example 1 except that the final firing in air was done at 900 The x ray diffraction data for the first precursor and for the cation reordered material obtained by re oxidation at 600 A mixture of 10.454g of Ba NO₃ ₂, 2.183g of La₂O₃ and 12.9g of Bi NO₃ ₃.5H₂O was heated as described in Example 1 except that the final heating was done at 900 The x ray diffraction pattern for the first precursor and for the cation reordered material obtained by reoxidation at 600 In four separate experiments, each of the four materials A D, having the composition Ba₂La A feedstream consisting of about 5 propylene and 95 helium flowing at a rate of 30 cm³ min was passed through the reactor which was heated to a temperature of 475 The results obtained for Materials A and B, on the one hand, and Materials C and D, on the other hand, are shown in Figs. 1 and 2, respectively, which represent plots of the relative amounts of 1,5 hexadiene and benzene formed as a function of time. All four materials showed low production of carbon oxides, low benzene make, and comparable production of the 1,5 hexadiene dimer which was the dominant product during the initial reaction at 475 X ray diffraction analysis of the solid reaction products obtained after the catalytic reactions were completed showed that for Materials A and B significant quantities of the oxygen deficient material Ba₂La In an additional experiment, the solid product material produced by reacting Material A with propylene was removed from the reactor and was regenerated by reoxidation at 600 In two separate experiments, each of two materials E and F, having the composition Ba₂La A feedstream consisting of about 5 . propylene and 95 helium flowing at a rate of 30 cm³ min was passed through the reactor which was heated to a temperature of 475 The results obtained for Materials E and F are shown in Figure 3 which represents plots of the relative amounts of 1,5 hexadiene and benzene formed as a function of time. Both materials showed low production of carbon oxides, low benzene make, and comparable production of the 1,5 hexadiene dimer which was the dominant product during the initial reaction at 475 In two separate experiments, each of two Materials G and H, having the composition Ba₂La A feedstream consisting of about 5 propylene and 95 helium flowing at a rate of 30 cm³ min was passed through the reactor which was heated to a temperature of 475 The results obtained for Materials G and H are shown in Figure 4 which represents plots of the relative amounts of 1,5 hexadiene and benzene formed as a function of time. Both materials showed low production of carbon oxides, low benzene make, and comparable production of the 1,5 hexadiene dimer which was essentially the only product during the initial reaction at 475 In summary, the present invention is seen to provide a class of fully oxidized, cation reordered, bismuth and lanthanum containing compounds having a perovskite type structure and a process for the preparation thereof. Also provided is a process for selectively producing aromatic products from C₃ C₄ acyclic olefins using the class of compounds herein.