# FOAMABLE BIOCIDE COMPOSITION

## Claims
Biozide Zusammensetzung, mit

## Description
The present invention relates to a foamable biocidal composition. The chemical control of bacteria and viruses is assuming increasing importance in the hospital and medical environment. Outbreaks of infections such as Methyicylin resistant Staph Aureus are causing illness, death and even temporary closure of wards in some hospitals. This situation has been exacerbated by the failure of many bacteria to respond to conventional antibiotics. Accordingly, the need for effective control of bacterial and virus organisms is assuming greatly increased significance. In the case of hand and skin disinfection a biocidal agent needs to kill the widest possible range of microorganisms in the least possible time without toxicity, irritation or other hazard and have a long shelf life. Typical of these biocides are chlorine, iodophors and organic chemicals such as chlorhexidine which are commonly employed in hospitals and surgeries. The most widely accepted form of safe, effective biocide is chlorhexidine gluconate in aqueous ethanol. A full discussion of this product appears in the paper entitled Detergents compared with each other and with antiseptics as skin degerminating agents by H.A. Lily et al in Journal of Hygiene U.K. . Further technical disclosure of the product appears in Australian Patents Nos. 157,758 and 222,033. Conventionally, chlorhexidine is commercially supplied in a pump pack or manufactured by the hospital pharmacist as required. Unfortunately, however, in use alcoholic chlorhexidine has inherent difficulties including the following US T 943 010 relates to a primarily aqueous foamable chlorohexidine composition, of limited biocidal activity, containing corrosive ethoxylated surfactants. Accordingly, it is well known that chlorhexidine must be formulated very carefully to optimize its biocidal performance. With the above difficulties in mind, the present invention provides an improved composition containing alcoholic chlorhexidine in aerosol form which is easy and safe to use. In this respect, extensive research over several years was necessary on a variety of differing types compositions before the viability of an aerosol type became apparent. Accordingly, a biocidal composition, comprising The inclusion of a corrosion inhibitor is necessary where the composition is stored in metal containers which are typical of tin plate or aluminum to counteract the corrosive nature of chlorhexidine formulations. However, if the container is non metal e.g. glass the inclusion of a corrosion inhibitor is not necessary. As stated the composition of the invention is an aerosol form. This is most appropriate for a biocide as it avoids or minimizes the conventional defects of contamination and spillage. Pressurized aerosol containers are readily available, have been extensively tested and are well accepted. In an effort to minimize the aforementioned difficulty of overspray and early evaporation, a foaming agent was included, more particularly of a quick break foam variety. This has the ability of providing a thick ball of foam which disintegrates easily when spread. Proper coverage can be effected to the surface to be cleansed without premature evaporation. A general discussion of quick break foams can be found in Australian Patent 463,216. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, a particular quick break foaming agent has been developed which has not been previously disclosed in this context. From the viewpoint of performance it was known from the paper of H.A. Lilly et al that aqueous ethanol of approximately 70 w w ethanol concentration is the best vehicle for chlorhexidine and this is the preferred form for use in the present composition. It is also well known that a base formulation of chlorhexidine in aqueous ethanol tends to degrease and dry out the skin when used regularly e.g. 40 times per shift in the hospital environment. Thus, an emollient is optionally incorporated which would help prevent dehydration of the skin without hindering the performance of chlorhexidine. Emollients which are particularly preferred are lanolin and polyols selected from glycerol, propylene glyerol, sorbitol and low molecular weight polymers thereof. Other examples of emollients are vinyls alcohol and polyvinyl pyrrolidone. When considering the preferred requirement for 70 w w ethanol, it was found that the composition may have an effect on the solubility characteristics of other additive e.g. fatty alcohols, lanolin and organic acid salts. It is believed the other additives react with the chlorhexidine causing it to be, to some extent, either precipitated or inactivated. Nevertheless, such compositions are still found to be useful. The chlorhexidine component will normally be present in amounts of from .1 10 w w though larger concentrations were found to be possible but with deleterious effects on the efficiency of entire system. Preferred forms of chlorhexidine are as a gluconate, diacetate, hydrochloride or other salts thereof. Care should be taken to select a propellant most compatable to the entire system and in this respect the propellant is preferably selected from a group comprising propane, butane, dichloro difluoro methane, dichloro tetra fluoro ethane, octafluoro cyclo butane. As mentioned the propellant should be presenting amounts from 3 30 w w though preferably from 5 to 15 w w and more preferabely from 8 to 10 w w. Where the container is metal it is necessary to incorporate a corrosion inhibitor. This became apparent when researching the invention as several working formulation were achieved which however were found to corrode tin plate or aluminium containers at extraordinary rates resulting in short shelf lives. Typical corrosions inhibitors were organic acid salts more preferably sorbic acid, benzoic acid, sodium benzoate and potassium sorbate. These inhibitors are preferably present in amounts of from .1 to 15 wt and more preferably for .1 to 3 w w. Thus, a typical formulation of the present invention is as follows The following are details of tests which were carried out of such formulations in which the formulation is identified by the Trade mark HEXIFOAM . A series of In vitro tests were performed on Hexifoam to determine the efficacy of the Chlorhexidine within this formulation. The tests were designed to establish whether any loss of biocidal activity of the chlorhexidine was occurring. Comparative evaluations were also performed utilizing Hexifoam without Chlorhexidine and unformulated non alcohol Chlorhexidine Gluconate Standard. The product was evaluated in a suspension test based on the principles outlined in BS.3286 under the following test conditions. The results have indicated that a dilution of the product Hexifoam of 1 4 v v continues to demonstrate excellent biocidal properties while the base material without chlorhexidine fails to show any significant biocidal properties. This is indicative of little or no loss of activity of the chlorhexidine within the formulation. The comparative tests with Chlorhexidine Gluconate standard at 0.25 confirmed that the biocidal activity under the above test conditions was found to be equivalent. The product Hexifoam has shown very rapid biocidal action against the organisms A sample of Hexifoam was received at the laboratory to be evaluated for its biocidal properties against the organism Staphylococcus aureus. The product was evaluated in a suspension test in ccordance with the principles outlined in BS. 3286 under the following test conditions. The product Heixfoam batch 4073 was evaluated for its biocidal activity using a suspension test based on the principles outlined in British Standard BS.3286. The results obtained are as follows The product Hexifoam batch 4073 was evaluated for its biocidal activity using a suspension test based on the principales outlined in British Standard BS.3286. The results obtained are as follows The product Hexifoam batch 4073 was evaluated for its biocidal activity using a suspension test based on the principles outlined in British Standard BS.3286. The results obtained are as follows The product Hexifoam Batch 4073 was evaluated for its biocidal activity using a suspension test based on the principles outlined in British Standard BS.3286. The results obtained are as follows The product Hexifoam Batch 4073 was evaluated for its biocidal activity using a suspension test based on the principles outlined in British Standard BS.3286. The results obtained are as follows Hexifoam was evaluated in our laboratory in a short, preliminary in vivo trial using various dosages and exposure times against Two volunteers from our laboratory were used. For the duration of the experiment the hands of the personnel were allowed to be washed only with traditional bar soap. No chlorhexidine based products such as our standard laboratory scrub were used to ensure there was no build up of chlorhexidine on the skin. The time interval between Hexifoam trials was at least three days. Fresh 24 hour suspension cultures of One ml. of Hexifoam was weighed on to a plastic square and then applied to the hands. This procedure ensured accurate dosage by weight. The Hexifoam was rubbed over the entire surface of the hands. Exposure time was monitored with a stop watch. At the end of the allocated exposure time the hands were placed into 500 ml. of inactivator solution comprising 3 Tween 80, 2 lecithin. For one minute the hands were scrubbed in the inactivator solution to release any surviving 0.384 is used to calculate the expected recovery in all Hexifoam trials. This adjusts for culture variation and is needed to calculate reductions achieved. The foamable compositions within the present invention improve over prior chlorhexidine products commercially available as follows Quite unexpectedly, having regard to the prior research carried out the stated combination has in testing exceed performance expectation. Further, as disclosed initial microbiological tests have shown the compositions retain the full broad specrum of activity of chlorhexidine and to be surprisingly fast acting, killing 99 plus of M.R.S.A. in less than sixty seconds. This result is clearly superior to conventional chlorhexidine compositions.