# A process for joining different kinds of synthetic resins.

## Abstract
A process for joining a first plate 10 to a second plate 20 includes several steps. A first step provides a first plate 10 made of a first kind of synthetic resin. A second step is setting a second plate 20 having a hole and formed of metal or a synthetic resin on the first plate 10 . A third step is setting an insertion 60 within the hole of the second plate 20 into contact with a portion 11 of the first plate 10 . The insertion 60 is made of glass or a second kind of synthetic resin which can transmit the laser beam. The fourth step is exposing the insertion 60 to a laser beam which transmits the laser beam to the first plate 10 . The first kind of synthetic resin of the portion of the first plate 10 stores up heat of the laser beam, so that the portion 11 of the first plate 10 is melted by the heat of the laser beam. A fifth step is pressing the insertion 60 into the first kind of synthetic resin melted from the first plate 10 . The first kind of synthetic resin melted from the first plate 10 thereby is pushed out from the hole of the second plate 20 onto an outer surface 40 of the second plate 20 to form a lip ring 13 of the first kind of synthetic resin. Accordingly, the lip ring 13 links the first plate 10 to the second plate 20 .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for joining a first plate 10 comprising a first kind of synthetic resin adapted to absorb the heat of a laser beam to a second plate 20 having an inner peripheral edge 30 defining a hole with a portion 11 of the first plate 10 within the hole, characterized in that an insert 60 , formed of a substance adapted to transmit a laser bean, is positioned on the portion 11 of the first plate 10 within the hole, a space being defined between the insert 60 and the inner peripheral edge 30 of the second plate 20 , with a contact surface 61 of the insertion 60 contacting the portion 11 of the first plate 10 , the insert 60 is exposed to a laser beam, and pressing into the first kind of synthetic resin melted from the first plate 10 by heat from the laser beam, whereby the melted resin is pushed out through the space defined between the insert 60 and the inner peripheral edge 30 of the second plate 20 onto an outer surface 40 of the second plate 20 to for. a lip ring 13 of the first kind of synthetic resin linking the second plate 20 to the first plate 10 . 2. A process according to Claim 1, characterized in that the insert 60 comprises glass, polypropylene or styrenefacrylonitrife copolymer. 3. A process according to Claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the first kind of synthetic resin comprises styrene acrylonitrile copolymer having an absorptive additive. 4. A process according to Claim 3, characterized in that the additive comprises carbon black. 5. A process according to Claim 3 or 4, characterized in that the styrene acrylonitrile copolymer is reinforced with glass filler. 6. A process according to Claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the first kind of synthetic resin of the first plate 10 comprises polypropylene having carbon black as an absorptive additive. 7. A process according to Claim 1, characterized in that the insert 60 comprises of a second kind of synthetic resin and a surface 61 of the insert 60 adjacent to the first plate 10 is melted by the heat stored up in the first plate 10 , so that during the pressing step, the melted first kind of synthetic resin is forced into recesses formed in the surface 61 of the insert 60 and the second kind of synthetic resin melted from the surface 61 of the insert 60 is forced into recesses formed in the first plate 10 , then after the cooling step the insertion 60 is held to the first plate 10 thereby. 8. A process according to Claim 7, characterized in that the insert 60 further comprises a portion disposed above the outer surface 40 of the second plate 20 and having a diameter greater than the diameter of the hole, whereby the insert 60 may be inserted only until the said large diameter portion abuts against the outer surface 40 of the second plate 20 . 9. A process according to any preceding Claim, characterized in that the laser beam is generated by a Nd YAG laser, Nd glass laser, ruby laser, helium neon He Ne gas laser, Krypton Kr gas laser, argon Ar gas laser, hydrogen H2 gas laser or nitrogen N2 gas laser.

## Description
A PROCESS FOR JOINING DIFFERENT KINDS OF SYNTHETIC RESINS The present invention relates to a process for joining differing kinds of synthetic resins or other materials to each other, and more particularly to a process for joining them using the heat of a laser beam. In a first conventional process for physically joining synthetic resins, each of the synthetic resins has a contact surface thereon. A metal mesh is disposed on the contact surfaces of the synthetic resins, and the mesh is sandwiched between both of the synthetic resins.When the mesh is heated, both of the contact surfaces of the synthetic resins are melted by the heat of the mesh. Pressure then is applied to the outsides of the synthetic resins to press them together, and the synthetic resins are cooled. As a result of this first conventional process, one of the synthetic resins is joined to the other of the synthetic resins. In this fir8t conventional process, both synthetic resins normally are the same kind of synthetic resins so that both will have the same melting point, and so that both will blend easily into one another. If different kinds of synthetic resins are used, they may have differing melting points and may not blend easily into one another. Further, in the first conventional process, a connecting wire is disposed between both of the contact surfaces of the synthetic resins to supply electricity to heat the mesh. Connecting the wire to the mesh between the synthetic resins requires an undesirably high amount of manual labor. 3 In a second conventional process for chemically joining synthetic resins, each of the synthetic resins has a contact surface thereon, and a bonding compound is disposed between both of the contact surfaces of the synthetic resins. The bonding compound normally is solid and is melted by heat, typically produced by applying high frequency or supersonic waves to the bonding compound. These waves also preferably melt the synthetic resins slightly to improve bonding. After a compressive force is applied to the synthetic resins, the synthetic resins are cooled.As a result of the second conventional process, one of the synthetic resins is joined to the other. In the second conventional process, the synthetic resins again should be the same kind of synthetic resin, this time so that the bonding compound has the same adhesive property as to both synthetic resins. If different kinds of synthetic resins are used, the bonding compound may have differing adhesive properties as to the different kinds of synthetic resin. Accordingly, the adhesive strength of the bond to one kind of synthetic resin may be different from the adhesive strength of the bond to a different kind of synthetic resin, i. e., one bond may have a weak adhesive strength. Further, in the second conventional process with different synthetic resins, the synthetic resins may not both be melted by the heat of the high frequency or supersonic waves. FIG. 7 shows a third conventional process for mechanically joining different kinds of synthetic resins. As shown in FIG. 7, a second plate 92 is mounted on a first plate 91. The first plate 91 is made of styrene acrylonitrile copolymer reinforced with glass filler, and the second plate 92 is made of polypropylene resin. The second plate 92 has a hale 93. A soldering iron 96 is inserted through the hole 93 of the second plate 92 into the first plate 91, and the first plate 91 is melted by the heat of the soldering iron 96 The melted first plate 91 is pushed out from the hole 93 of the second plate 92 by the soldering iron 96, forming a Up ring 99 of the first plate 91 on an outer surface of the second plate 92.By further application of the soldering iron 96, the lip ring 99 of the first plate 91 can be linked to the second plate 92. However, a part of the first plate 91 often sticks to The soldering iron 96 after the soldering iron 96 is drawn out from the first plate 91, which should be removed from the soldering iron 96 before it is used again. All of these steps are labor intensive. The present invention has been developed in view of the facts as described above, and its object is to provide a process for joining securely a second plate to a first plate which is made of a first kind of synthetic resin. To accomplish the above described object, a process for joining the first plate to the second plate includes several steps. A first step includes providing a first plate made of a first kind of synthetic resin which can store up absorb the heat of a laser beam. A second step includes setting the second plate on the first plate.The second plate has an inner peripheral edge defining a hole therein, with a portion of the first plate within the hole. A third step includes setting an insertion on the portion of the first plate within the hole. The insertion is made of glass or a second kind of synthetic resin which can transmit the laser beam. A fourth step includes exposing the portion of the first plate to a laser beam through the insertion. The first kind of synthetic resin of the first plate stores up the heat of the laser beam, and the portion of the first plate is melted. A fifth plate includes pressing the insertion into the first kind of synthetic resin melted from the first plate. The diameter of the end of the insertion is smaller than the diameter of the hole of the second plate, so that a space is formed between the insertion and the inner peripheral edge of the second plate. The first kind of synthetic resin melted from the first plate is pushed out through the space onto an outer surface of said second plate. As a result, a lip ring of the first kind of synthetic resin is formed. Several spots of a contact surface of the insertion with the first plate also are melted by the heat which is stored up in the first plate, and a plurality of recesses are formed on the contact surface of the insertion. The first kind of synthetic resin melted from the first plate intrudes into the plurality of the recesses on the contact surface of the insertion, and a plurality of projections are formed on the portion of the first plate. Accordingly, the first plate has a lip ring engaging the outer surface of the second plate, and a plurality of the recesses of the contact surface of the insertion engaging with a plurality of the projections of the portion of the first plate, so that the first plate is joined securely to the second plate. other objects and novel features of this invention will become more apparent from the description which follows, taken in cownction with the accompanying . drawings, and in which FIG. 1 is a cross secional view showing a third step of a first embodi t of a process according to the present invention FIG. 2 is a cross sectional view showing a fourth step of the process FIG. 3 is a cross sectional view showing a fifth step of the process FIG. 4 is a cross sectional view showing a sixth step of the process, FIG. 5 is a diagram showing the transmittance of 20 wt glass filler reinforced styrene acrylonitrile copolymer with 0.1 wt carbon black FTG, 6 is a diagram showing the transmittance of polypropylene without any additives and FIG. 7 is a cross sectional view showing a third conventional proce . Referring to FIG. 1, a first step of a process for joining different kinds of synthetic reins or other materials includes providing a first plate 10 made of a first kind of synthetic resin which can store up absorb the treat of a laser beam. For example, the first kind of synthetic resin may be styrene acrylonitrile copolymer reinforced with 20 wt glass filler, and including 0.1 wt carbon black as an additive. The first plate 10 of this composition is black. As shown in FIG. 5, the reinforced styrene acrylonitrile copolymer can transmit only a llttle of a Nd YAG Nd 3 Y3Al5O12 laser beam.When the wavelength of the laser beam is 1.06 m, the reinforced styrene aery1c trre copolymer can transmit about 4 of a total amount of the Nd YAG laser beam. Therefore, the reinforced styrene acrylonitrile copolymer can store up most of the heat of the total amount of the laser beam. Alternatively, the first kind of synthetic resin may be polypropylen,e in which includes carbon black as en absorptive additive. A second step of the process includes setting a second plate 20 on the first plate 10 which is made of a second kind of synthetic resin or other material. The second plate 20 has an inner peripheral edge 30 which defines a hole therein. If the second plate 20 is made of a second kind of synthetic resin, it preferably is one which can transmit most of the laser beam. For example, the second kind of synthetic resin may be polypropylene resin without any absorptive additives. The color of such a plate 20 is milky white. As shown in FIG. 6, when the wavelength of the Nd YAG laser beam is 1.06 p m, the polypropylene resin without any absorptive additives can transmit about 75 of the total amount of the Nd YAG laser beam. Accordingly, the second plate 20 cannot store up the heat of the Nd YAG laser beam. Alternatively, the second kind of synthetic resin may be styrene acrylonitrile copolymer, poryethylene, vinyl chloride, 6 nylon resin or 66 nylon resin, all without any absorptive additives. Alternatively, the second plate 20 may be made of metal instead of the second kind of synthetic resin including steel, nickel, aluminum and copper. A third step of the process includes setting an insertion 60 on a portion 11 of the first plate 10 within the hole of the second plate 20.A contact surface 61 of the insertion 60 is in contact with the portion 11 of the first plate 10. The diameter of the insertion 60 is smaller than the diameter of the inner peripheral edge 30 of the second plate 20, so that a space is defined between the insertion 60 and the inner peripheral edge 30 of the second plate 20. The insertion 60 is made of the second kind of synthetic resin, which transmit the laser beam. For example, the insertion 60 may be made of polypropylene without any absorptive additives. Such an insertion 60 can transmit most of the total amount of the laser beam whose wavelength is 1.06 p m and less.Alternatively, the insertion may be made of styrene acrylonitrile copolymer or glass. As shown in FIG. 2, a fourth step of the process includes setting a nozzle 50 of the laser beam on an top surface 62 of the insertion 60 and exposing the top surface 62 to the laser beam. The laser beam radiates from the nozzle 50 through a convex lens 70, and the insertion 60 transmits the laser beam, thereby exposing the portion 11 of the first plate 10 to the laser beam. The laser beam is dispersed in the insertion 60 during transmission. The laser beam therefore concentrates on a plurality of spots of the portion 11 of the first plate 10. Accordingly, a plurality of the spots of the portion 11 of the first plate 10 store up the heat of the laser beam and are melted. A plurality of spots of the contact surface 61 of the insertion 60 which face the plurality of the spots of the portion 11 of the first plate 10 also are melted by the heat which is stored up in the first plate 10. As a result, a plurality of recesses are formed on the contact surface 61 of the insertion 60, and the melted portion 11 of the first kind of synthetic resin of the first plate 10 intrudes into the plurality of the recesses. Alternatively, the end of the nozzle 50 may be above but not in contact with the top surface 62 of the insertion 60. With the preferred resins, the most suitable laser beam is aNd YAG laser beam, however, other laser beams may be used, including Nd glass laser beam ruby laser beam helium neon He Ne gas laser beam krypton Kr gas laser beam argon Ar gas laser beam hydrogen aha gas laser beam and nitrogen N2 gas laser beam. With the preferred resins, a suitable wavelength of the laser beam for joining different kinds of synthetic resins is about 1.06 m and less. When a wavelength of the laser beam is more than 1.06 pm, the insertion 60 cannot transmit the laser beam. With the preferred resins, the laser beam should be from 5W through 100W in power, in order to melt the portion 11 of the first plate 10. When the generating power of the laser beam is Sess than 5W, the portion 11 of the first plate 10 cannot be melted by the heat of the laser beam which is stored up in the first plate 10. When the generating power of the laser beam is more than 100W, the portion 11 of the first plate 10 may vaporize or may be transmuted. As shown in FIG. 3, a fifth step of the process includes pressing the insertion 60 into the first kind of synthetic resin melted from the portion 11 of the first plate 10, after stopping a irradiation by the laser beam. The first kind of synthetic resin melted from the first plate 10 is pushed out through the space defined between the insertion 60 and the inner peripheral edge 30 of the second plate 20, so that a lip ring 13 of the first kind of synthetic resin is formed on an outer surface 40 of the second plate 20. The top surface 62 of the insertion 60 preferably is pushed by the nozzle 50 of the laser beam.Alternatively, the top surface 62 of the insertion 60 may be pushed by another device instead of the nozzle 50 of the laser beam. The insertion 60 also may be inserted into the melted first plate 10 during irradiation by the laser beam. A sixth step of the process includes removing the nozzle 50 of the laser beam from the top surface 62 of the insertion 60 and cooling the first plate 10. The first plate 10 then is joined to the second plate 20 through the lip ring 13 thereof, and the plurality of projections of the portion 11 of the first plate 10 engage with the plurality of recesses of the contact surface 61 of the insertion 60. Therefore, by this process, the first kind of synthetic resin can be joined securely to the second kind of synthetic resin. As has been described above, according to the process for joining different kinds of synthetic resins of the present invention, one kind of synthetic resin can be joined securely to a different kind of synthetic resin or other material without any mechanical device. Further techniques for joining different kinds of synthetic resins and other materials may be found in the applications owned by applicants assignee, filed in European Patent Office concurrently with the present application and, all entitled A Process for Joining Different Kinds ofSynthetic Resins . It should be apparent to one skilled in the art that the above described embodiments are merely illustrations of a few of the many possible specific embodiments of the present invention. Numerous and varied other arrangements can be devised readily by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention, which is defined by the following claims.