# Temporary cover to foster cosmeticcally pleasing healing of nail bed tissue.

## Abstract
The cover has the nature of a splint and or mould which is adapted for temporary use on the injured digit of a person s hand or foot in order to foster beneficial healing after a nail plate has been removed. The cover or splint comprises a generally elongated sheet 12 of thin i.e., 0.020 inch 0.5 mm polypropylene or the like, which is inert to body fluids. It has a generally compound curvature so that it approximates the natural shape of a human nail plate, and has on its lower surface a smooth, concave shape which is adapted for contacting the healing nail bed. The sheet has a proximal end 18 that is approximately perpendicular to the sides of said sheet, and the sheet has square corners which fit with in the eponychial fold of the person s digit for the purpose of preserving the fold and maintaining its size. The split also has a structure 20 depending from the two sides of the sheet for engaging the tissue of the person s nail bed this structure 20 holds the tissue and inhibits it from contracting significantly during healing of the nail bed. The healing nail bed is restricted to taking on the smooth shape of the juxtaposed sheet as it heals, and a healed nail bed will have a size that tends to be almost as large as its pre injured size.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A temporary cover for use on a digit of a person s hand or foot in order to foster beneficial healing after the nail plate has been removed therefrom, characterised by a a generally elongated sheet which is inert to body fluids, and which has a generally compound curvature so that it approximates the natural shape of a human nail plate, said sheet having a longitudinal radius which defines a curve in a longitudinal plane and a transverse radius which defines a curve in a transverse plane, the transverse radius being appreciably less than the longitudinal radius, the width of the sheet corresponding to approximately a 70 degree segment of the circle defined by the transverse radius, the sheet having a smooth concave surface that is adapted for being installed so that it is in contact with and covers the nail bed, and the sneet having a proximal end that is approximately perpendicular to the sides of said sheet, whereby the sheet is adapted to fit within the eponychial fold of the person s digit for the purpose of preserving said fold and b means depending from the two sides of said sheet for engaging the tissue of the person s nail bed so as to hold said tissue and inhibit it from contracting significantly during healing of said nail bed, whereby the healing nail bed is restricted to taking on the smooth shape of the juxtaposed sheet as it heals, and whereby a healed nail bed ahs a size that tends to be almost as large as its pre injured size. 2. A temporary cover according to Claim 1, characterised in that said means for engaging the tissue of the nail bed constitutes a depending skirt which extends for essentially the full length of each of the two sides of the sheet. 3. A temporary cover according to Claim 2, character ised in that the bottom edges of said skirts are non linear. 4. A temporary cover according to any preceding claim, characterised in that the corners between the proximal end of the splint and the sides of the splint have an included angle of approximately 90 degrees. 5. A temporary cover according to any preceding claim, characterised in that the sheet has a plurality of centrally located apertures that are sized and positioned to permit the drainage of body liquids from under the sheet during the body s healing process, and in that said apertures are no greater than about 1 16 inch 1.6 mm in diameter, whereby the healing nail bed is restrained over nearly all of its upper surface. 6. A temporary cover according to any preceding claim, characterised in that said sheet has a thickness of approximately 0.020 Inch 0.5 mm , and wherein the longitudinal radius is about 1.5 inches 38 mm and the transverse radius is about 0.4 inch 10 mm . 7. A temporary cover according to any preceding claim, characterised in that the sheet has an initial length of about 1 inch 125 mm , whereby there is adequate length to permit significant trimming during the process of shaping the distal end of the sheet to match the end of a particular digit. 8. A method of fostering the smooth healing of an injured nail bed on a person s digit, characterised by the steps of a securing to the top surface of the injured nail bed a firm structure which lies in intimate contact with the tissue of the injured nail bed over nearly all of its upper surface, the tissue contacting surface of said structure being smooth and generally concave b restraining the sides of the healing nail bed in order that said nail bed does not contract as it heals and c maintaining the eponychial fold of a person s digit by inserting a substantive element within said fold so as to prevent it from collapsing until such time as the patient s nail plate can naturally reconstruct itself. 9. A method according to Claim 8, characterised in that all three of the recited steps are simultaneously accomplished by a single, integral structure.

## Description
TEMPORARY COVER TO FOSTER COSMETICALLY PLEASING HEALING OF NAIL BED TISSUE This invention relates generally to a temporary cover useful in dealing with the results of diseases and or injuries to the tips of a person s digits on either the hand or foot. More specifically, it relates to a cover having utility to foster healing of the ends of a person s digits, in order that nail plates i.e. fingernails and toenails can be restored to a condition that more nearly approaches their original condition. It is well known that injuries to the ends of a person s digits occur frequently, and those injuries are often more than simply painful. That is, when a weekend carpenter strikes at a steel nail and hits his thumb instead, he may experience a pain that lasts for several minutes. But if he mishandles an electric saw and cuts himself, the initial pain may be only a small part of his overall problem because a rotating saw blade that cuts through the top of a fingernail can cause damage that is not easily taken care of by the body s natural healing processes. Typically, when a person s nail plate has been cut off or it is so badly damaged that it must be surgically removed, the nail bed has been permitted to heal without the presence of any restraint.The result is typically an uneven and shrunken region of scarry tissue where there had once been a soft, smooth cushion of healthy tissue. Furthermore, the soft gauze dressings that are typically applied to a healing nail bed often become stuck to the healing tissue when blood or other body liquids dry in contact with the dressing. When a doctor later removes those dressings, the pain is often extreme because an unprotected nail bed is one of the most sensitive spots on a person s body. After a nail bed has healed, the nail plate will often grow back over the nail bed, assuming that at least some of the nail 6 root was not lost as a result of the injury. If the healed bed is not smooth and natural1, the nail that grows over that bed will be similarly deformed, and an irregular or split and usually unpleasing nail is the result. Examples of such deformed nails are illustrated at page 250 of an article by Zook, Guy and Russell entitled A study of nail bed injuries Causes, treatment and prognosis that appeared in the March, 1984 issue of The Journal of Hand Surgery. Attention has been given in recent years to cosmetic or reconstructive surgery for the purpose of replacing a damaged or disfigured nail with a prosthetic nail. And, two such examples of prosthetic nails are revealed in U.S. patents issued to this inventor, namely, No. Des.265,507 entitled Prosthetic Nails which issued July 20, 1982 and No. 4,445,234 entitled Prosthetic Nail which issued May 1, 1984. No matter how beneficial these prosthetic nails may be for solving the cosmetic and functional problems of a missing nail, it would be preferable to foster the rehabilitation of a person s fingertips or toes without being forced to use a nail prothesis. And, it has now been concluded that the healing of a nail bed can be fostered by temporarily placing a particular kind of cover or splint over a damaged nail bed during the critical time that it is initially recovering from an injury. Such a cover must be smooth and in intimate contact with the nail bed and provide a sufficient restraint as to force the healing tissue to remain in an essentially normal condition, i.e., without irreg ular collagen.When the cover splint of this invention is subsequently removed after a few weeks, the resulting nail that eventually grows back over the healed bed will appear much more smooth and will be less distinguishable from the person s other, non injured nails. This disclosure, therefore, is intended to present the details of a particular structure and the method of utilizing that structure so as to enable a person skilled in the art to practice the invention. Besides the cosmetic benefit that will be realized from use of the disclosed split, an additional benefit will be realized from the physical protection of a tender area, especially during the first few days after a finger or toe has been damaged. With a temporary splint covering a freshly exposed nail bed, the risk of unplanned contact with nail bed tissue can be eliminated and, any point pressure from contact with a pencil or the like can be distributed by a relatively firm splint so as to produce broader area pressure. It is another object of this invention, therefore, to protect a patient against unnecessary pain during those first several days after the injury. The goal of minimizing pain when a patient tries to resume normal activities may seem like an adequate goal in and of itself, but another benefit from the use of the splint disclosed herein is a reduction in the amount of pain killing drugs that the patient might otherwise feel is either necessary or desirable. And, it is now being more widely appreciated that pain killing drugs should be used with the recognition that chemical dependency is a major threat to the full recovery of a patient. It should be appreciated, therefore, that the reduction of pain associated with a healing digit has both simple and complicated facets and any structure which contributes to pain reduction is therefore doubly useful. Accordingly, the temporary cover of the invention is characterised by a a generally elongated sheet which is inert to body fluids, and which has a generally compound curvature so that it approximates the natural shape of a human nail plate, said sheet having a longitudinal radius which de fines a curve in a longitudinal plane and a transverse radius which defines a curve in a transverse plane, the transverse radius being appreciably less than the longitudinal radius, the width of the sheet corresponding to approximately a 70 degree segment of the circle defined by the transverse radius, the sheet having a smooth concave surface that is adapted for being installed so that it is in contact with and covers the nail bed, and the sheet having a proximal end that is approximately perpendicular to the sides of said sheet, whereby the sheet is adapted to fit within the eponychial fold of the per son s digit for the purpose of preserving said fold and b neans depending from the two sides of said sheet for engaging the tissue of the person s nail bed so as to hold said tissue and inhibit it from contracting significantly during healing of said nail bed, whereby the healing nail bed is restricted to taking on the smooth shape of the juxtaposed sheet as it heals, and whereby a healed nail bed has a size that tends to be almost as large as its pre injured size. Preferably, the sheet has square corners which it within the eponychial fold of the person s digit for the purpose of preserving the fold and maintaining its size. With the cover of the invention, when the nail plate grows back over the healed bed, it will be smooth and will look normal. Reference is made to the drawings, in which Figure 1 is a perspective view of a splint in accordance with this invention, showing the generally concave underside of the splint Figure 2 is a side elevational view of the splint drawn at a different scale , showing the curvature in a longitudinal plane Figure 3 is a front elevational view which could also be called an end view of the splint, on the same scale as Figure 2 Figure 4 is a side elevational view of another embodiment of the invention, clearly showing a non linear edge along the visible side and Figure 5 is a top plan view of an embodiment of the invention having bleed holes therein. Referring initially to Figures 1 3, the temporary cover or splint for use on the digits of a person s hand or foot is shown in its simplest configuration. The cover or splint 10 includes a generally elongate sheet 12 of firm but resilient material which is inert to body fluids and is water impervious. A preferred material for the sheet 12 is a polypropylene sold by Hercules Incorporated of Wilmington, Delaware under the trademark Profax 6523 . The sheet 12 has a compound curvature so that it approximates the natural shape of a human nail plateThat is, the sheet has a first radius R1 which defines a curve in a longitudinal plane this first radius will usually be on the order of 1.5 inches 38 mm .The sheet 12 also has a second radius R2 which defines a curve in a transverse plane this second radius is substantially smaller than R1, usually about 1 3 thereof. The preferred transverse radius R2 is about 0.4 inch 10 mm , and the sheet 12 obviously appears somewhat like a segment of a cylinder when viewed along its longitudinal axis 14.The width of the sheet 12 as viewed along said longitudinal axis corresponds to a segment of a circle having an included angle of about 70 degrees. The sheet s forward distal end 16 is preferably shaped the same as its proximal end. This offers an advantage to the surgeon in that there is no criticality as to which end is inserted into the eponychial fold. Besides having no right and wrong ends when the splint 10 is removed from a sterile package by the surgeon, it also will often be slightly long for most fingernails and toenails. A preferred length of about 1 inch 25 mm permits some tolerance for error as the surgeon tries to match the shape of the injured digit by trimming off small segments of the sheet. As long as the surgeon works by cutting away only small bits at a time, he might even be able to cut off and discard his first effort at shaping the distal end, while still leaving enough material in the sheet to start again with his shaping work at either end of the symmetrical sheet. The sheet s proximal end 18, both as manufactured and as installed, will preferably be relatively square , in the sense that it will have two corners of approximately 90 degrees each. In this respect, the splint 10 differs significantly from previously known appendages for nails which are typically oval or elliptical in shape. Also, the thickness of tfle proximal end 16 is ideally the same thickness as the rest of the sheet 12, and should be at least thick enough to provide enough body to restrain or support the eponychial fold. This is important because a characteristic of the body s natural healing process is to eliminate the space between the eponychial fold and the nail bed, if some substantive material is not positioned within that space so as to keep it from closing.The square corners of the sheet 12 also inhibit the fold from contracting in a transverse direction , which would cause the size of a healed nail bed to be unnecessarily reduced. A preferred thickness for a sheet 12 is within the range of about 0.015 0.020 inch 0.38 to 0.5 mm . A splint 10 having the shape illustrated in Figure 1 and having the preferred dimensions e.g., thickness of 0.020 inch 0.5 mm , R1 of 1.5 inches 38 mm , R2 of 0.4 inch I mum will have a surprisingly strong resistance to vertical loading in the direction indicated by the arrowLv in Figure 2. In fact, it has been determined that a vertical lifting load Lv of over five pounds can be imposed in the distal end of the splint 10 when it is anchored at its proximal end without causing the splint to bend.This is particularly advantageous because accidental loading of the splint 10 in the direction indicated by force Lv can be imposed on a splint when the patient reaches for a cup, drawer, door latch, etc., and inadvertently strikes an immovable object. It is important, therefore, that the splint 10 have sufficient rigidity based upon its geometry to provide true protection during the critical healing period. It may be instructive at this time to compare the splint 10 as described herein with previously disclosed attempts to providing temporary cover for healing tissue.The aforementioned artIcle by Zoot, et al entitled A study of nail Dea Injuries Causes, treatments and prog noshs describes tecnnlques using either non adherent gauze or 0.020 inch 0.5 mm silicone sheet. It might be assumed that the silicone sheet will have more firmness than the gauze but even silicone sheet is so soft, supple and flexible as to provide essentially none of the advantages that have been described herein. Silicone sheet having a thickness of 0.020 inch 0.5 mm may be thought of as having the firmness or body of the leather in a woman s kid glove that is, such silicone sheet is very flexible .An appropriate analogy might be to categorize Applicant s splint 10 as equivalent to a lobster s shell, while bandages and coverings of the prior art have had the flexibility of a cotton T shirt. In fact, the splint 10 disclosed herein could even be utilized by the patient in scratching some skin that itches, if the patient should momentarily forget his injury and reach out to touch some spot without remembering that he has been cautioned by his doctor against putting too much strain on the temporarily installed splint. The classi cal scratching process can also occur in what amounts to an inadvertent manner, if the patient is almost asleep and reaches out to touch some skin that is being irritated by a housefly or other insect.But as long as the sutures which will usually be employed to anchor the distal end of the splint can survive a scratching action, then the entire device will surely survive, because the curved sheet 12 has surprisingly strong properties. In addition to its inherent strength, the splint s material and shape provide an advantageous spring constant. Three separate tests on a prototype of the splint have revealed that it has a spring rate of about 21 pounds per inch 375 kg m when loaded vertically, as indicated by the symbol 5T in Figures 2 and 3, with the ends 16, 18 dyeing unconstrained as they would be when the splint is Deing worn by a patient. That is, the soft tissue of the eponychial fold will anchor the promximal end 18 of the splint 10 to the extent that it prevents the splint from moving vertically away from a digit but the fold is too soft to prevent some longitudinal movement of the splint if the splint is subjected to loading in the direction indicated by LT. A distinguishing feature of the sheet 12 in this device is the gently concave and centrally unobstruced surface on the bottom of the splint 10, i.e., in the region under the splint that is adapted to contact the exposed tissue of the nail bed. This smooth, unobstructed surface contributes to an appearance that is markedly different front some earlier devices that have been disclosed by this inventor in that there is no depending protuberance in the centre of the sheet which could inhibit the smooth rehabilitation of the nail bed. In one sense, the splint 10 may accurately be considered to be like a template or mould for the reason that the splint causes the healing tissue to take on the shape of the lower surface of the splint. But this characteristic is true only if the splint 10 is held securely against the top of the healing tissue.This is more nearly assured with the preferred material described elsewhere herein, because a few common sutures can be utilized to tie the distal end of the splint to the end of the digit. That is, a surgical needle will readily penetrate a sheet of 0.020 inch 0.5 mm polypropylene, and the small hole created by the needle will not usually tear as a result of routine physical activity by the patient. So, with the distal end 16 secured by sutures and the proximal end 18 embedded within the eponychial fold, the splint 10 will usually remain on the digit for as long as the surgeon desires. A skirt 20 depends rom each side of the sheet 12 to engage the tissue of the nail bed so as to hold the tissue and inhibit it from contracting significantly during healing, whereby the healing nail bed is restricted to taking on the smooth shape of the juxtaposed sheet as it heals. In this way, the healed nail bed has a size that tends to be almost as large as its pre injured size. Somewhat greater assurance against unwanted longitudinal movement of an installed splint can be obtained by use of a configuration like that shown in Figure 4, wherein the edge 22 of the depending skirt or side 20 is non linear, e.g., shaped like a sine wave. A saw tooth configuration for the side edge would also be feasible, as would a square wave configuration but it is believed that the sine wave configuration is likely to be more comfortable for the patient. If the surgeon decides to leave the splint 10 on an injured digit for several days or even a few weeks, the splint being impervious to liquids conceivably could trap unwanted liquids under the splint. For this reason it is preferred to have one or more bleed holes in the central region of splint 10, so that liquids can drain spontaneously from under the splint. Four such holes 24 are shown in Figure 5. In general, a large number of small holes no larger than 1 16 inch 1.6 mm diameter are preferable to a small number of larger holes. It should be apparent from the foregoing that the splint disclosed herein is simultaneously accomplishing three separate functions it is shaping the top of the nail bed as the bed heals it is holding the sides of the nail bed apart, so that they do not unduly contract during healing and it is keeping the eponychial fold intact, by preventing the fold from collapsing. However, it would be entirely feasible to accomplish one or more of these functions wit elements that are not integrally formed as is splint 10. Thus, the specIfic structures shown herein are intended to be exemplary and are not meant to be limiting.