# Cephalosporin compounds, and their production, and medicaments containing them.

## Abstract
This invention relates to antibacterial cephalosporin compounds, to the production of these compounds, and to medical compositions containing them. The compounds of this invention are those of the general formula I and salts thereof CHEM wherein R 1 represents a lower alkyl group which may be substituted by a carboxyl group R 2 and R 3 , which may be the same or different, each represents an amino group, a lower alkyl group, a lower alkylthio group, or a lower alkoxy group which may be substituted by hydroxyl group s and or amino group s or R 2 and R 3 combine to form CHEM wherein R 4 represents a hydrogen atom, a hydroxyl group, or a lower alkoxy group A represents a direct linkage or a carbonyl group and m represents an integer of 1 to 2.

## Claims
Claims 1. A cephalosporin compound of the following general formula I , or a pharmacologically acceptable salt thereofEMI63.1 wherein R1 represents a C1 to C5 alkyl group which may be substituted by a carboxyl group and R2 and RD are a the same or different and selected from an amino group, C1 to C5 alkyl groups, C1 to C5 alkylthio groups, and C1 to C5 alkoxy groups which may be substituted by hydroxyl group s and or amino group s , or b together formEMI63.2 4 wherein R represents a hydrogen atom, a hydroxyl group, or a.C1 to C5 alkoxy group, A represents a direct linkage or a carbonyl group, and m is 1 or 2. 2. A compound according to claim 1 wherein R1is a C1 to C5 alkyl group and R2 and R3 are the same or different and selected from amino and C1 to C5 alkoxy groups. 3. A compound according to claim I which is Z 7 alpha 2 amino 4 thiazolyl alpha methoyiminoacet amido 3 3 amino 4 methoxypyridiniomethyl cephem 4 carboxylate or a pharmacologically acceptable salt thereof. 4. A method of preparing a compound according to claim I which comprises reacting 7 amino 3 halogenomethyl cephem 4 carboxylic acid IIEMI64.1 wherein X represents a halogen atom with N,O bis tri loweralkylsilyl trifluoroacetamide IIIEMI64.2 wherein R represents a C1 to C5 ethyl group and substituted pyridine compound IV EMI65.1 and then reacting the formed compound with substituted oxyiminothiazolyl acetic acid compound V or reactive derivative thereofEMI65.2 wherein R8 represents a hydrogen atom or a protective group for an 2 no group and then, if necessary, releasing any protective group. 5. A method of preparing a compound according to claim 1 which comprises reacting 7 amino 3 cephem derivative VI with substituted oxyiminothiazolylacetic acid V or reactive derivative thereon and then, 5 necessary, releasing any protective group S EMI65.3 6 . A method of preparing a compound according to claim 1 which comprises either i reacting compound VII which may have protective group s for tie amino group and or the carboxy group, directly with substituted pyridine compound IV or ii converting compoung VII to the 3 halogenomethylcephalosporin derivative of formula VIII and then reacting this with substituted pyridine compound IVEMI66.1 7. A pharmaceutical composition containing a compound according to claim 1 as an active ingredient 8. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 7 which is an injection.

## Description
CEPHALOSPORIN COMPOUNDS, AND THEIR PRODUCTION, AND MEDICAMENTS CONTAINING THEM This invention relates to antibacterial cephalosporin compounds, to the production of these compounds, and to medical compositions containing them. The compounds of this invention are those of the general formula I and pharmacologically acceptable salts thereofEMI1.1 wherein R1 represents a C1 to C5 alkyl group which may be substituted by a carboxyl group and R2 and R3 are a the same or different and selected from an amino group, C1 to C5 alkyl groups, C1 te C5 alkylthio groups, and C1 to C5 alkoxy groups which may be substituted by hydroxyl group s and or amino group s , or b together formEMI1.2 wherein R4 represents a hydrogen atom, a hydroxyl group, or a C1 to C5 alkoxy group represents a direct linkage or a carbonyl group, and m is 1 or 2. Symbols herein have the same significances throughout unless otherwise indicated. The compounds of this invention shown by formula I show antibacterial activities to various pathogens including several important gram positive or negative bacteria. Some of the compounds of this invention have superior solubility in water, and so are suitable for injection preparations. Many cephalosporin derivatives having antibacterial activities have been synthesized heretofore,and some are used for medical treatment. Some cephalosporin compounds having as pyridiniomethyl group as a substituent at the 3 position of the cephalosporin nucleus are known e.g EP. 74,645 discloses some cephalosporin compounds hav ing sth a pyridiniomethyl group substituted by an amino or protected amino group, and GB 2,098,216 discloses cephalosporin compounds having such a pyridiniomethyl group substituted by a group which is selected from a C1 to C6 alkyl group, a halogen atom, a hydroxyl group, an alkoxy group, etc. The term lower in the foregoing definition of general formula I and elsewhere herein means a straight or branched carbon chain having 1 to 5 carbon atoms. Examples of the lower alkyl group are methyl, ethyl, prqpyl, isopropyl, butyl, and pentyl groups.When the lower alkyl group is substituted by a carboxyl group, this carboxyl is in addition to the C1 to C5 chain and may be at any position of the chain examples of such substituted lower alkyl groups are carboxymethyl, l carboxyethyl, 1 carboxy l methyle thyl, l carboxy l methylpropyl and l carboxy l methylbutyl groups. Examples of the lower alkylthio in the definition of R2 and R3 are methylthio, ethylthio, propylthio, isopropylthio, butylthio, pentyl thio groups.Examples of the lower alkoxy group which may be substituted by hydroxSlgroup s andiór amino group s in the definitions of R2 and R3 are methoxy, ethoxy, propoxy, isopropoxy, and butoxy groups and such groups substituted by one or two hydroxyl and or amino groups at any position s of the alkoxy group. Examples of the lower alkoxy group in the defintion ofR4 are the unsubstituted lower alkoxy groups mentioned above for R2 and R3. R2 and R may be at any position of the pyridine ring of the pyridinio group. When Rê and R combine to from 4 CH2 m O , Rê and R can form with the adjacent pyridine ring of the pyridinio group e.g. a 4 loweralkoxy 3 oxo 3,4 dihydro 2H pyrido 4,3 b 1,4 oxazine, ring, a 3 oxo 3,4 dihydro 2H pyrido 4,3 b 1,4 oxazine ring, a 4 hydroxy 3 oxo 3,4dihydro 2H pyrido ,3 b l14 oxazine,or a 3,4dihydro 2H pyrido 4,3 b 1,4 oxazine The compounds of this invention of formula I include geometrical isomers and tautomers this invention includes all these syn form and anti form geometrical isomers and mutual tautomers, alone and In any combination. The salts of the compounds of this invention of formula I are the pharmacologically acceptable nontoxic salts of the compounds such as nontosLc acid addition salts or base addition salts. Examples of the acid addition salts are pyridinium salts of the formula EMI4.1 wherein Y represents an inorganic anion such as a halogen anion C1 , I , etc ar a sulfonic acid anion HS04 , SO4 etc. or an organic anion such as an acetate anion CH3COO , a fumarate anion HOOC CH CH COO , a citrate anionEMI4.2 CH2COO or abenzenesulfonate anion C6E5S03 J. Examples of the base addition salts are salts of the following formula EMI5.1 wherein M represents an alkali metal cation such asNa or K NH4 or an organic base cation such asEMI5.2 CH3 3NH3 , C2H5 3NH3 ,HO CH2CH2 NH3 , ornithinium, or lysinium. The compounds of this invention can be produced by various processes typical production processes are explained hereinafter Process A A compound of general formula I can be produced by reacting 7 amino 3 halogenomethyl cephem 4 carboxylic acid IIEMI5.3 wherein X represents a halogen atom with N ,0 bis tri loweralkylsilyl trifluoroacetamide IIIEMI6.1 wherein R represents a lower alkyl group.and substituted pyridine compound IVEMI6.2 and then reacting the formed compound with substituted oxyiminothiazolyl acetic acid compound V or reactive derivative thereof,EMI6.3 wherein R8 represents a hydrogen atom or a protective group for an amino group and then, if necessary, releasing any protective group. In process A 7 amino 3 halogenomethyl cephem 4 carboxylic acid II or a salt thereof can be reacted withN,O bis tri loweralkylsilyl trifluoroacetamide III and substituted pyridine compound IV in an oraanic solvent which does not take part in the reaction. VEen R2 or R3 of compounds IV is amino it may be protected by a protection group which like a protective group R8 of compound V may be one usually used in the field of peptide chemistry, practical examples being an acyl group such as a formyl, acetyl, propionyl, tert butoxycarbonyl, methoxyacetyl, methoxypropionyl, benzyloxycarbonyl, or p nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl group an aralkvl aroup such as a benzyl, benzhydryl, diphenylmethyl , or trityl group and a triloweralkylsilyl arouF such as trimethylsilyl. Examples of the halogen atoms in the compoundsII are a chlorine atom, a bromine atom, an iodine atom. The compounds III and IV may be reacted with compoundII simultaneously or stepwise. The reaction proceeds easily at room temperature.If performing the reaction stepwise, the first step may be performed at room temperature and the next step under cooling.Various variations of the reaction conditions can be adopted. Examples of organic solvents which do not take part in the reaction are dichloromethane, acetone, acetonitrile.and tetrahydrofuran. Thus compound A having protective groups R5 3Si may be produced, and the resulting reaction .EMI8.1 solution reacted with compound V or reactive derivative thereof. After removing protective groups the desired compound I can be obtained. The reaction of compounds A and V is usually performed in a solvent under cooling or at room temperature. Any solvent which doesnottake part in the reaction may be used, and the same solvents as used in the first step are suitable. Examples of the solvents are organic solvents such as dioxane, ether, ethylmethylketone, chloroform, dichloromethane, ethyl acetate, ethyl formate, dimethyl formamide and dimethylsulfoxide these solvents may be used alone or in appropriate combinations. The compound V may be a free carboxylic acid or a reactive derivative thereof. Suitable examples of such reactive derivative are mixed acid anhydrides, acid anhydrides, acid halides, active esters, active amides, and acid azides. When using a free carboxylic acidVit is preferred to use a condensing agent such as N,N dicylo hexylcarbodiimide or N,N .diethylcarbodi imide. When a reactive derivative. of a. carboxylic acid used, it may be preferred for smooth reaction to operate in the presence of a base. Examples of suc a base are. inorganic bases such as sodium hydrogencarbonate potassium hydrogencarbonate, sodium carbonate, and potassium carbonate and organic bases such as tri methylamine, triethylamine and dimethylaniline pyridine. The. removal of. an amino protecting group from the reaction product is easily performed, when the group is an alkyl group e.g. trityl or an acyl group, by hydrolysis with acid. As the acid used in this case, formic acid, trifluoro acetic acid and hydrochloric acid, are amongst those preferred. when the group is an triloweralkyl silyl group,its removal is easily performed by contact with water. Process B EMI10.1 VI or reactive derivative thereofEMI10.2 wherein R9 represents a hydrogen atom or a triloweralkylsilyl group, and R10 represents a hydrogen atom or a protective group for a carboxyl group. A compound I can thus be produced by reacting 7 amino 3 cephem derivative VI with substituted oxyiminothiazolylacetic acid V V or reactive derivative thereof and then, if necessary, releasing any protective group s . Practical examples of protective group for a carboxy group are those which can be released easily under mild conditions, such as trimethylsilyl, benzhydryl, ss methyl sulfonylethyl, phenacyl, p methoxy benzyl, tert butyl, and p nitroben yl groups The reaction can be performed under conditions similar to those for Process A, that is, by adopting the same reaction conditions as for reacting compounds A and V, and then removing protective groups.Process C EMI11.1 wherein R11 represents a lower alkyl group. Compounds of formula I can thus be prepared i by reacting compound VII which may have protective group s for the amino group and or the carboxy group, directly with substituted pyridine compoundIV or ii by converting compound VII to the 3 halogenomethylcephalosporin derivative VIII which is then reacted with substituted pyridine compound IV This reaction is one for converting the lower acyloxy moiety at the 3 position of the cephalosporin nucleus e.q. acetyloxy, propionyloxy, or butylyloxy into a substituted pyridinio groupEMI12.1 i In the case of directly converting the lower acyloxy moiety i into the pyridinjo group, the reaction is usually performed by stirring compound . VII or a salt thereof and compound Iv in water or other i inert Solvent or a mixture thereof. Examples of inert solvent for this alcohols such as methanol, ethanol amazes such as dimethylformamide, acetamide and acetones and acetonitriles. For promoting the reaction, a catalyst such as potassium iodide, potassium bromide sodium bromide, or potassium thiocyanate may be added to the reaction system in an excess amount. The reaction proceeds easily at room temperature or under heating. ii In the case of obtaining the desired compound I via its 3 halogenomethylcephalosporin derivative, the corresponding 3 halogenomethyl derivative VII is first obtained e.g. by reacting compound VIII preferably protected by silyl type group with trimethylsilyl iodide TMSI in an inert solvent such as methylene chloride, chloroforn, acetonitrile or acetone the solvent in the silyl 3halogenomethyl compound containing solution is distilled away, the concentrate is dissolved in acetonitrile, and excess TMSI is decompose by adding a small excess of tetrahydrofuran.To the solution thus formed is added the pyridine compound IV to provide a silyl derivative of the desired compound. If desired or necessary, protective group removal and or salt formation can be effected as previously described following reaction i or ii . A salt of the formula I compound can be produced by perrorming the foregoing production process using a salt of the starting compound, or by applying a salt forming reaction to the free formulaI compound. In the latter case, for example, an alkali metal salt can be produced bv adding an n butanol solution of an alkali 2 ethylhexanoate to the reaction product and then adding thereto anorganic solvent of different solvent power, such as ether or ethyl acetate a salt of an organic base or a basic amino acid can be obtained by adding an equivalent amount or a slight excess of organic base or basic amino acid such as dicyclohexylamine, tri ethylamine, cyclohexylamine, diethanolamine, arginine or lysine to the reaction product and an ammonium salt can be obtained by adding aqueous ammonia to the reaction product. The formula I compounds and salts can be separated and purified in conventional manner, such as extraction with organic solvent, crystallization, or column chromatography. Compounds of this invention have shown antibacterial activity against various pathoaens including several important positive and negative pathogens, and thus are useful as medicaments especially antibacterial agents , aditives for feeds, and preservatives. Antibacterial activities minimum effective inhbitory concentrations of compounds of formula I taken from the following Examples are shown in the following Table. Table minimum effective inhibitory concentrations ml EMI15.1 tb SEP SEP Example SEP No. SEP . SEP cefta tb Strain SEP SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 6 SEP 9 SEP 10 SEP 11 SEP 12 SEP 13 SEP zidime tb Strain SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP SEP 5 tb Stash. SEP epidermidis tb lID SEP 866 SEP 1.56 SEP 0.2 SEP G.2 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.2 SEP 6.25 SEP 0.78 SEP 1.56 SEP 0.39 SEP 3.13 tb E. SEP coli SEP NIHJ SEP C SEP U.2 SEP tu.2 SEP 0S2 SEP 40.2 SEP 0.2 SEP L0.2 SEP z SEP 0.2 SEP co SEP 2 SEP 0.2 SEP c0.2 tb Kleb. SEP pneurmcmise SEP SEP 0.2 SEP 40.2 SEP 0.2 SEP 40.2 SEP t0.2 SEP 0.2 SEP 0.2 SEP 0.2 SEP d SEP 0.2 SEP 40.2 tb ATCC SEP 10031 tb Ps. SEP aerug SEP m SEP osa SEP 0.39 SEP 1.56 SEP 1.56 SEP 1.56 SEP 1.56 SEP 0.39 SEP 1.56 SEP 1.56 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.78 tb NKTC SEP 10490 tb Serr. SEP marcescense SEP Z0.2 SEP C0.2 SEP 0.24C.2 SEP C0.2 SEP 0.2 SEP SEP 0.2 SEP t0.2 SEP 0.2 SEP 0.2 tb NY 10 tb Sane compounds of this invention have low acute toxicity, as proved by animal tests. Compounds of this invention have superior solubility in water, and aqueous solutions of high concentration can be produced. Thus compounds of this invention have practical value in that injection preparations such as intramuscular injectiors can be easily provided. Antibacterial medicaments containing compounds according to the invention may be prepared by conventional methods using conventional carriers or excipients. They may for example be administered parenterally by intravenous or intramuscular injection orally as tablets, pills, capsules, granules as liquid preparations or as suppositories. The appropriate dose is determined in each case considering factors such as the symptom, age and sex of the patient. For an adult a daily total of 250 to 3,000 mg is usually administered in one to four doses. The invention is illustrated by the followingExamples according to the invention and ReferenceExamples. If desired or necessary protective group removal and or salt formation can be effected in conventional manner as previously described.Reference Example 1 raw material for the compound of Example 13 EMI17.1 In 200 ml of tetrahydrofuran were dissolved 18.39 g of 4 chloro 3 nitropyridine and 18 g of ethyl glycolate.To the solution formed was added 6.4 g of 60 oily sodium hydride maintaining the temperature of the solution below 150 C. After stirring the solution at the same temperature, the solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure. To the residue thus obtained were added water and ether, and the ether layer was separated. The ether layer thus separated was extracted with 50 ml of 2N hydrochloric acid three t5es.To the hydrochloric acid extract was added potassium carbonate to alkalify the extract. The aIkalified solution was extracted with ether three times. The ether extract thus obtained wad dried over anhdrous magnesium sulfate, and the solvent was distilled off to give 19.44 g of 4 ethoxycarbonylmethoxy 3 nitropyridine. EIMS M H 227NMR CDCl3 ppm EMI18.1 In 30 ml of methanol was dissolved 2.7 g of 4 ethoxycarbonylmethoxy 3 nitropyridine, and about 1.5 ml of Raney nickel was added to the solution. Hydrogen gas was passed through the solution at normal pressure. After the adsorption of hydrogen gas was completed, 100 ml of methanol was added to the reaction mixture and the catalyst was removed by filtration.The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure to give 1.87 g of white powder, a mixture of 4 hydroxy 3 oxo 3,4 dihydro 2H pyrido14,3 b7 1,4 oxazine and 3 oxo 3,4 dihydro 211 pyrido 4 , 3 b 3 1, 4 oxazine 85 15 . 1.87 g of the mixture was dissolved in 150 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran and after adding thereto 0.93 g of aluminium lithium hydride, the formed mixture was reflexed under heating for 2 hours. After cooling the reaction solution, a saturated aqueous sodium sulfate solution and ethyl acetate were added thereto and insolubles were removed by filtration.The filtrate was dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, and the solvent was distilled away under reduced pressure to provide 1.28 g of pale yellow oily 3,4 dihydro 2H pyrido 4,3 b 1,4 oxazine. NMR CD C1 appm EMI19.1 tb 3.42, SEP 2 SEP H, SEP t tb 4.29, SEP 2H, tb 6.6 SEP 4, SEP 1 SEP H., SEP d, SEP RN tb SEP 0 tb 7.8 SEP 0, SEP 1 SEP H, SEP d, SEP EN tb 7.8 SEP 8, SEP l SEP H,. SEP s, SEP iX tb 3.8 SEP 4, SEP 1 SEP H, SEP broad tb Reference Example 2 raw materials for the compounds ofExamples 11 and 12 EMI20.1 4 ethoxycarbonylmethoxy 3 nitropyridine was treated with hydrogen in a similar manner to Reference Example l b , and white powder obtained was recrystallized from water to provide white crystals of 4 hydroxy 3 oxo 3,4 dihydro 2H pyrido 4,3 b 1,4 oxazine. NMR DMSO d6, pm EMI20.2 From the mother liquor was obtained 3 oxo 3,4 dihydro2H pyrido 4,3 b 1,4 oxazine. NMR DMSO d5, pm EMI20.3 Reference Example 3 raw material for Example 10 compound EMI21.1 810 mg of 4 hydroxy 3 oxo 3,4 dihydro 2H pyrido 4,3 b 1,4 oxazine was dissolved in a mixture of 4.9 ml of iN aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide and 5 ml of acetone. After adding thereto 0.305 ml of methyl iodide, the mixture was stirred for 1 hour at room temperature. Acetone was distilled away under reduced pressure.To the residue was added a saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution and ethyl acetate. The separated organic layer was taken, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, and the solvent was distilled away under reduced pressure to provide 410 mg of pale yellow powder of 4 methoxy 3 oxo 3,4 dihydro 2H pyrido 4,3 b 1,4 oxazine. I 1 5 11 9 C NMR CDCl3 pm EMI21.2 Example 1EMI22.1 In 30 ml of dichloromethane was suspended 1.02 g of 7 amino 3 iodomethyl cephem 4 carboxylic acid and after adding thereto 1.7 ml of N,O bis trimethylsilyl trifluoroacetamide, the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes to provide a clear Solution A . In 10 ml of dichloromethane was suspended 327 mg of 3,5 diaminopyridine and after adding thereto 4.9 ml ofN,O bis trimethylsilyl trifluoroacetamide, the mixture was heated to 30 350C to provide Solution B r which was cooled to room temperature. After adding Solution B.to Solution A, the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 4 hoursThe reaction solution was cooled to 50 C, and 1.2 ml of pyridine was added thereto to provide a Solution C . In 10 ml of dichloromethane was suspended 1.33 g of Z alpha 2 tritylamino 4 thiazolyl alpha methoxyimino acetic acid and after adding thereto 624 mg of phosphorus pentachloride, the mixture was stirred for 15 minutes to provide a Solution D .Solution D was added dropwise to Solution C and the temperature of the mixture was increased to 15 0C over a period of 15 minutes. The reaction mixture was stirred at the same temperature for 10 minutes. After adding to the solution 8 ml of 1 N hydrochloric acid, 10 ml of water and 10 ml of tetrahydrofuran and stirring the resultant mixture under ice cooling for 10 minutes, dichloromethane and tetrahydrofuran re distilled away under reduced pressure. To the residue was added 100 ml of water,and powder thus formed was collected by filtration, washed with water, and dried to provide a crude product of the desired compound having protective groups. After adding thereto 30 ml of trifluoroacetic acid under ice cooling and then adding 3 ml of water, the resultant mixture was stirred at room temperature for l hour.Insoluble materials were removed by filtration, and the reaction solution was concentrated under reduced pressure. To the residue was added 100 ml of ether, and the powder thus formed was collected by filtration, and dried to provide Ig of a crude product.The crude product was suspended in 200 ml of water, and 8 ml of I N hydrochloric acid was added to dissolve the suspension.The OUS solution thus formed was adsorbed on Dia RP 20 made by Mitsubishi Chemical Industries Ltd . Then the product was eluted first with water and then with a mixed solution of water and methanol mixing ratio of 9 1 and then with a mixed solution of water and methanol mixing ratio of 8 2 . The fractions containing the desired product were collected, concentrated, and lyophilized to provide 96 mg of Z 7 2 amino 4 thiazolyl alpha methoxyimino acetamido 3 3,5 diamino1 pyridiniomethyl cephem 4 carboxylate. NMR DMSO d6 EMI24.1 Example 2EMI25.1 In 30 ml of dichloromethane was suspended 680 mg of 7 amino 3 iodomethyl cephem 4 carboxylic acid and after adding thereto 1.2 ml of N,O bis trimethylsilyl trifluoroacetamide, the resultant mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes to provide a clear Solution A . 218 mg of 3,5 diaminopyridine was suspended in 10 ml of dichloromethane and after adding thereto 3.4 ml of N,O bis trimethylsilyl trifluoroacetamide, the mixture was heated to 30 35 C to dissolve the mixture, and the resultant Solution B was cooled to room temperature. Solution B was added to Solution A and after stirring the mixture at room temperature for 4 hours, the mixture was cooled to 50 C, and 0.8 ml of pyridine was added thereto to provide a Solution C . 1.14 g of Z i 2 tritylamino 4 thiazolyl alpha 1 tert butoxycarbonyl 1 methylethoxyimino acetic acid was suspended in 5 ml of dichloromethane and after adding thereto 416 mg of phosphorus pentachloride under ice cooling, the resultant mixture was stirred for 15 minutes to provide a Solution D . Solution D was added dropwise to Solution C and the temperature of the sDluticawas increased to 150C over a period of 15 minutes. The solution was stirred at the same temperature 10 minutes and after adding thereto 6 ml of I N hydrochloric acidv 8 ml of water and 8 ml of tetrahydrofuran, the mixture was stirred for 10 minutes under ice cooling, and dichloromethane and tetrahydrofuran were distilled away under reduced pressure. To the residue was added 70 ml of water, and the powder thus formed was collected by filtration, washed with water, and dried to provide a crude product of the desired compound having protective groups.To the chide product obtained was added 20 ml of trifluoroacetic acid under ice cooling, and the resultant mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. To the mixture was added 2 ml of water followed by further stirring 1 hour at room temperature. Insoluble materials wem removed by filtration, and the reaction solution was concentrated under reduced pressure. To the residue was added 80 ml of ether, and the powder thus formed was collected by filtration, and dried to provide l g bf a crude product. The crude product was suspended in 200 ml of water, and 6 ml of 1 N hydrochloric acid was added thereto to dissolve the prdduct. The aqueous solution thus formed was adsorbed on Diaion HP 20, and the product was eluted first with water and then with a mixture of water and methanol 9 1 and then with a mixture of water and methanol 8 2 . The fractions cmtaining the desired compound were collected, concentrated, and lyophilized to provide 69 mg of Z 7 alpha 2 amino 4thiÅazolyl l carboxy l methylethoxyimino acetamidod 3 3,5 diamino 1 pyridiniomethyl cepham 4 carboxylate. NMR DMSO d6 EMI27.1 Example 3EMI28.1 In 40 ml of dichloromethane was suspended 1.36 g of 7 amino 3 iodomethyl cephem 4 carboxylic acid and after adding thereto 2.4 ml of N,O bis trimethylsilyl tri fluoroacetamide, the resultant mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes to form a complete solution. To the solution was added an aquecus soluticawhich was prepared by suspending 436 mg of 3, 4 diaminopyridine in 10 ml of dichloromethane and adding thereto 2.4 ml of f N,O bis trimethylsilyl trifluoroacetamide to dissolveThe suspension, and the solution was stirred at room temperature for 4 hours. The reaction solution was cooled to 500c. and 1.6 ml of pyridine was added thereto to provide a Solution A 1.77 g of Z 2 tritylamino 4 thiazolyl alpha methoxyimino acetamido 3 3,4 diamino acid was suspended in 10 ml of dichloromethane and after adding thereto 832 mg of phosphorus pentachloride under cooling,the mixture was stirred for 15 minutes to form a Solution B . Solution B was added dropwise to Solution A, the temperature of the solution was increased to 15 C over a period of 10 minutes, and the solution was stirred at the same temperature for 10 minutes. To the solution was added 8 ml of l N hydrochloric acid, 10 ml of water and 10 ml of tetrahydrofuran and after stirring the mixture under ice cooling for 10 minutes, dlchlo omethane and tetrahydrofuran was distilled away under reduced pressure.To the residue was added 100 ml of water, and the powder formed was collected by filtration, washed with water, and dried to provide a crude product of the desired compound having protective groups. After adding thereto 30 ml of trifluoroacetic acid and then 3 ml of water under ice cooling, the resultant mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. Insoluble materials were removed by filtration, and the reaction solution was concentrated under reduced pressure. To the residue was added 100 ijil of ether, and the formed powder was collected by filtration and dried to provide 1.3 g of a crude product.The product was suspended in 200 ml of water, and 6 ml of 1 N hydrochloric acid was added thereto to form an aqueous solution. The aqueous solution was adsorbed on Dia ion HP 20, and eluted first with water, then with water methanol 9 1 , and further with water methanol 8 2 . The fractions containing the desired product were collected, concentrated, and lyophilized to provide 221 mg of Z 7 alpha 2 amino 4 thiazolyl alpha methoxyimino acetamido 3 3,4 diamino 1 pyridiniomethyl cephem 4 carboxylate. NMR DMSO d6 EMI30.1 Example 4EMI31.1 In 30.ml of dichloromethane was suspended 1.02 g of 7 amino 3 iodomethyl cephem 4 carboxylic acid and after adding thereto 1.7 ml of N,O bis trimethylsilyl trifluoroacetamide, the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes to form a complete solution. To the solution was added another solution which was prepared by suspending 327 mg of 3,4 diaminopyridine in 10 ml of dichloromethane and adding thereto 1.7 ml of N,O bis tri methylsilyl trifluoroacetamide to dissolve the suspension, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 4 hours. The reaction solution was cooled to 50 C, and 1.2 ml of pyridine was added thereto to form a Solution A . 1.7 g of Z 4 2 tritylamino 4 thiazolyl o l tert butoxycarbonyl l methylethoxyimino acetic acid was suspended in 10 ml of dichloromethane and after adding thereto 624 mg of phosphorus pentachloride under ice cooling, the mixture was stirred for 15 minutes to form à Solution B . Solution B was added to Solution A, and the temperature of the solution was increased to 15dC over a period of 10 minutes. The solution was stirred for 10 minutes at the same temperature. After adding to the solution 8 ml of 1N hydrochloric acid,in 10 ml of water and 10 ml of tetrahydrofuran, the mixture was stirred for iO minutes under ice cool, and dichloromethane and terrahydrofuran were distilled away under reduced pressure. To the residue was added 100 ml of water, and the forked powder was collected by filtration, washed with waster, and dried to provide a crude product of the desired compound having protective groups.After adding thereto 30 ml of trifluoroacetic acid under ice cooling, the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. To the reaction solution was added 3 ml of water, and the mixture was stirred for 1 hour at room temperature. Insoluble materials were removed by filtration, and the reaction solution was concentrated under reduced pressure.To the residue was added 100 ml of ether, and the formed powder was collected by filtration and was dried to provide 2 1.6 g of a crude product. The crude product was suspended in 200 ml of water, and 8 ml of I N hydrochloric acid was added thereto to form a solution. The solution was adsorbed on Diaion HP 20, and eluted first with water, then with water methanol 9 1 , and then with water methanol 3 2 The fractions containing the desired product were concentrated , and lyophilized to provide 252 mg of Z 7 alpha 2 amino 4 thiazolyl alpha 1 carboxy 1 methylethoxyimino acetamido 3 3,4 diamino 1 pyridiniomethyl cephem 4 carboxylate. NMR DMSO d6 a ppm 1.4 1 6 H, s, 3.19 2H, q, 4. 6 2 H, q, 5.04 1H, d, 5.7 0 iH, q, 6.67 1H, s, 6.70 1H, d,EMI33.1 7.80 8.04 2H, m,EMI33.2 Example 5EMI33.3 i In 20 ml of dichloromethane was spended 680 mg of 7 amino 3 iodomethyl cephem 4 carboxylic acid and after adding thereto 1.15 ml of N,0 bis trimethylsilyl trifluoroacetamide, the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 10 minutes to form a solution. To the solution was added 261 mg of 3 amino 4 methoxypyridine, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 4.5 hours to provide a solution containing trimethylsilyl 7 trimethylsilyl amino 3 3 amino 4 methoxypyridiniomethyl cephem 4 carboxylate iodide. ii In 10 ml of dichloromethane was suspended 886 mg of Z i 2 tritylamino 4 thiazolyl i methoxyiminoacetic acid and after cooling the suspension to 3 to 4 C and adding thereto 416 mg of phosphorus pentachloride, the mixture was stirred for 15 minutes at 3 4 C to form a Solution A . A solution containing trimethyl silyl 7 trimethylsilyiamino 3 3 amino 4 methoxypyridinio methyl cephem 4 carboxylate iodide obtained as at 51 above was cooled to 400C and after adding thereto 0.8 mi of pyridine and then adding dropwise Solution A, the temperature or the mixture was increased to 15 C over a period or 15 minutes. To the reaction mixture were added 2 mi of water, 5 ml of tetrahydrofuran and 4 ml of 1 N hydrochloric acid, and the resultant mixture was stirred under ice cooling for 10 minutes. Dichloromethane and tetrahydro furan were distilled away under reduced pressure.To the residue was added 100 ml of water, and precipitates thus formed were collected by filtration. The precipitates were washed with water, and dried to provide 1.74 g of a crude product of the desired compound having protective groups. After adding thereto 20 ml of trifluoroacetic acid under ice cooling and stirring the mixture for 15 minutes at room temperature insoluble materials were removed by .filtration. To the filtrate were added 10 ml of water under ice cooling, and the mixture was stirred for 1 hour at room temperature. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure, and ether was added to the residue. The formed powder was collected by filtration to provide 1.15 g of a crude product.The crude product was dissolved in SO ml of water and 5 ml of iN hydro chloric acid, the solution was subjected to column chromatography onDiaion HP 20, and the product was eluted first with water and then with mixed solutions of water and methanol successively changing the mixing ratio from 95 5 to 75 25 . The fractions containing the desired product were collected, concentrated, and lyophilized to provide 279 mg of Z 7 alpha 2 amino 4 thiazolyl alpha methoxyiminoacetamido 3 3 amino 4 methoxypyridiniomethyl cephem 4 carboxylate.NMR DMSO d6 pm 2.84 3.60 2H, q, 3.80 3H, 5, 4.0 5 3 H, s 4.8 0 5.6 0 2H, q, 5.06 1H, d, 5.65 1H, dd, 6.22 , 5, 6.72 1H, s,EMI35.1 broadEMI35.2 7.20 , s, 7.44 1H, d, 8.4 4 1 H, s, 8.54 1H, d, 9.5 3 1 E, d, broadEMI36.1 IR KBr c 2900 36 1765 I 6 1 0 1530FABMS M H 5Solubility in water above 23 W V Example 6EMI37.1 i In 20 ml of dichloromethane was suspended 680 mg of 7 amino 3 iodomethyl cephem 4 carboxylic acid and after adding thereto 1.15 ml of N,O bis trimethylsilyl trifluoroacetamide, the mixture was stirred for 10 minutes at room temperature to provide a solution.To the solution was added 538 mg of 3 amino 4 C 2,2 dimethyl 1,3 dioxolan 4 yl methoxy pyridine, and the mixture was stirred for 3.75 hours at room temperatureto provide a solution containing trimethvisilyl 7 trimethylsilyl amino 3 t3 amino 4 2,2 dimethvi1,3 dioxolan 4 yl methoxypyridiniomethyl 4 carboxylate iodide.After cooling the solution to 300C and adding thereto 0.8 ml of pyridine, and further adding to the mixture dropwise Solution A obtained in Example 5 ii , the temperature of the mixture was increased to 154C over a period of 15 minutes. To the reaction solution was aded 2 ml of water, 5 ml of tetrahydrofuran and 4 ml of 1 N hydrochloric acid, and the mixture was stirred for 10 minutes under ice cooling. Dichloromethane and tetrahydrofuran were distilled away under reduced pressure. To the residue was added 100 ml of water, and the precipitates thus formed ere collected by filtration, washed with water, and dried to provide 1.78 g of a crude product of the desired compound having protective groups. To the crude product was added 20 ml of trifluoroacetic acid under ice cooling and after stirring the mixture for 15 minutes at room temperature, insoluble materials were removed by filtration.To the filtrate was added 10 ml of water under ice cooling, and the mixture was stirred for 1 hour at room temperature.The mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and after adding ether to the residue, the formed powder was collected by filtration to provide 1.2 g of a crude product. To the product were added 50 ml of water and 5 ml of 1 N hydrochloric acid to dissolve it, and the solution was subjectdd to column chromatography on DiaionHP 20. The product was eluted first with water and then with mixtures of water and methanol wnile successively changing the mixing ratio from 95 5 to 80 20. The fractions containing the desired product were collected, concentrated, and then lyophilized to provide 289 mg of Z 7 alpha 2 amino 4 thiazolyl alpha methoxyiminoacetamido 3 3 amino 4 2, 3 dihydroxypropyloxy pyridiniomethyl3 A 3 cephem 4 carboxylate. NMR DMSO d6 pm 2.8 2 4A EMI38.1 andEMI38.2 3.80 3 H, s,EMI38.3 4.76 5.56 2H, q, 5.04 1H, d, 5.6 3 1 H, dd, 6.26 2H, s, 6.72 1H, s, 7.20 , s, 7.4 2 1H, d 8.44 1H, s, 8.48 1H,EMI39.1 9.52 1H, d, CONH IR KBr cm Ú 1760, 1600, 1520, FABMS M H 580Example 7EMI39.2 i In 20 ml of dichloromethane was suspended 650 mg of 7 amino 3 iodomethyl cephem 4 carboxylic acid and after adding thereto 1.1 ml of N,O bis trimethylsilyl trifluoroacetamide, the mixture was stirred for 10 minutes at room temperature to provide a solution.To the solution were added ml of bis trimethylsilyl trifluoroacetamide and 496 mg of 3 amnno 4 t 2 t butoxy carbonylaminoethyl oxy pyridine, and the mixture was stirred for 5 hours at room temperature to provide a solution containing trimethylsilyl 7 trimethylsilylamino 3 3 amino 4 2 t butoxycarbonylaminoethyl oxy pyridiniomethyl cephem 4 carboxylate iodide.ii In 10 ml of dichloromethane was suspended 847 mg of Z alpha 2 tritylamino 4 thiazolyl alpha methoxyimino ace tic acid and after cooling the suspension to 3 to ,0C and then adding thereto 398 mg of phosphorus pentachloride, the mixture was stirred for 15 minutes at 3 4 C to provide a Solution A A solution containing trimethylsilyl 7 trimethyl silylamino 3 C3 amino 4 2 t butoxycarbonylaminoethyl oxy pyridiniomethyl cephem 4 carboxylate iodide obtained at 7i above was cooled to 40oC and after adding thereto 0.77 ml of pyridine and then adding SolutionA dropwise to the mixture, the temperature of the mixture was increased to 15 C over a period of 15 minutes. To the mixture were added 2 ml of water, 5 ml of tetrahydrofuran, and 4 ml of 1 N hydrochloric acid, and the mixture was stirred for 10 minutes under ice cooling Dichloromethane and tetrahydrofuran were distilled away under reduced pressure. To the residue was added 100 ml of water to form precipitates, which were collected by filtration1 washed with water, and dried to provide 1.74 g of a crude product of the desired compound having protective groups. To the product was added 20 ml of trifluoroacetic acid under ice cooling and after stirring the mixture for 40 mintues at room temperature, insoluble materials were removed by filtration. To the filtrate was added 10 ml of water under ice cooling, and the mixture was stirred for 45 minutes at room temperature.The mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and after adding ether to the residue, the formed powder was collected by filtration to provide 1.13 g of a crude product. After adding to the product 50 ml of water and 10 ml of 1 N hydrochloric acid to dissolve it, the resultant solution was subjected to column chromatography on Diaion HP20, and the product was eluted first with water and then with mixed solutions of water and methanol while successively chanting the mixing ratio from 95 5 to 80 20. The fractions containing the desired product were collected, concentrated, and lyophilized to provide 103.4 mg of z 7 f4 2 amino 4 thiazolyl methoxyiminoacetamido3 3 3 amino 4 2 aminoethoxy pyridiniomethyl cephem 4 carboxylate. NMR d6 DMSO pm 2.8 2 3.7 6 H,EMI42.1 3.8 0 3 H, s 4.6 2 5.3 2 2H, q 5.05 1H, d, 5,68 1H, dd, 6.72 1H, s, 6.8 2 lH, d, 7.20 2H, s, 7.98 1H, s, 8.18 1H, d,EMI42.2 9.25 1H, d, CONH IR KBr cm Ú 1760, 1620, FABMS M H 549 Example 8EMI43.1 i In 20 ml of dichloromethane was suspended 680 mg of 7 amino 3 iodomethyl cephem 4 carboxylic acid and after adding thereto 1.12 ml of N,O bis trimethylsilyl trifluoroacetamide, the mixture was stirred for 10 minutes at room temperature to provide a solution.To the solution was added 294 mg of 3 amino 4 methylthiopyridine, and the mixture was stirred for 4 hours at room temperature to provide a solution containing trimethylsilyl 7 trimethyl silylamino 3 3 amino 4 methylthiopyridiniomethyl cepehm 4 carboxylate iodide.ii In 10 ml of dichloromethane was suspended 886 mg of Z 2 tritylamino 4 thiazolyl alpha methoxyimino acetic acid and after coddling the suspension to 3 to 40C and adding thereto 416 mg of phosphorus pentachloride, the mixture was stirred for 15 minutes at 3 40C to provide Solution A . A solution containing trimethylsilyl 7 trimethylsilylamino 3 3 amino 4 methylthiopyridinio methyl cephem 4 carboxylate iodide obtained at 8i above was cooled to 4Q C and after adding thereto 0.8 iri of pyridine and then addition Solution A dropwise to the abexre,the temperature of the mixture was increased to 15 C over a period of 15 minutes. To the mixture were added 2 ml of water, 5 mg of tetrahydrofuran, and 4 ml of 1 N hydrochloric acid, and the resultant mixture was stirred for 10 minutes under ice cooling. Dichloromethane and tetrahydrofuran were distilled away under reduced pressure.To the residue was added 100 ml of water, and precipitates thus formed were collected by filtration, washed with water, and dried to provide 1.62 g of a crude product of the desired compound having protective groups. After adding to the product 20 ml of trifluoroacetic acid under ice cooling and stirring the mixture for 15 minutes at room temperature, insoluble materials were removed by filtration To the filtrate was added 10 ml of water under ice cooling, and the resultant mixture was stirred for 50 minutes at room temperature. The mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and after adding ether to the residue1 the formed powder was collected by filtration to provide 0.93 g of a crude product. The produced was dissolved in 50 ml of water and 5 ml of I N hydrochloric acid, and the solution was subjected to column chromatography on Diaion HP 20. The product was eluted first with water and then with mixed solutions of water and methanol while successively changing the mixing ratio from 95 5 to 70 30. The fractions containing the desired product were collected, concentrated, and lyophilized to provide 253 mg of Z 7 alpha 2 amino 4 thiazolyl alpha methoxyimino acetamido 3 3 amino 4 methylthiopyridiniomethyl cephem 4 carboxylate. NMR d6 DMSO pm 2.88 3.54 2H, q 3.80 3H, s 2.65 3H, s 4.84 5.60 2H, q 5.04 1H, dEMI45.1 5.6 4 6.3 6 6.7 0 7.18 7.56 8.3 2 8.44EMI46.1 9.47 1H, d, CONHIR KBr cm Ú 1765, 1600, 1525,FABMS M H 536 Example 9EMI47.1 i In 20 ml of dichloromethane was suspended 680 mg of 7 amino 3 iodomethyl cephem 4 carboxylic acid and after adding thereto 1.24 ml of N,O bis trimethylsilyl trifluoroacetamide, the resultant mixture was stirred for 30 minutes at room temperature to provide a complete solution. To the solution was added 216 mg of 3 amino 4 methypyridine cf.Chemical Abstracts 63, 14805e 1965 ,and the mixture was stirred for 3 hours at room temperature to provide a solution containing trimethylsilyl 7 tri methylsilylamino 3 3 amino 4 methylpyridiniomethyl cephem 4 carboxylate iodide. ii In 20 ml of dichloromethane was suspended 886 mg of Z alpha 2 tritylamino 4 thiazolyl alpha methoxyimino acetic acid and after cooling the mixture to 5 C and then adding thereto 416 mg of phosphorus pentachloride, the mixture was stirred for 15 minutes at 5 to 0 C to provide a SolutionA . A solution containing trimethylsilyl 7 trimethylsilylamino 3 3 amino 4 methylpyridiniomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylate iodide obtained at 9i above was cooled to 40 C and after adding thereto 0.8 ml of pyridine and then adding to the mixture Solution A, the temperature of the mixture was increased to 150C over a period of 30 minutes. To the mixture were added 5.4 mL of 1 N hydrochloric acid, 6.7 ml of water and 6.7 ml of tetrahydrofuran, and the mixture was stirred for 10 minutes at 0 0C. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and after adding to the residue 66 ml of water, the formed precipitate were collected by filtration.iii 20 ml of trifluoroacetic acid was cooled to 5 C, and the precipitates obtained at 9ii above were added thereto while stirring. After adding 1 ml of water to the mixture, the mixture was stirred for 1 hour at room temperature.The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure andafter adding to the residue 2 ml of ethanol and then adding thereto 30 ml of ether, the formed powder was collected by filtration to provide 1.03 g of a crude product. After dissolving the product in 50 ml of water and 5 ml of 1 N hydrochloric acid small amount of insoluble materials were removed by filtration. The filtrate was subjected to column chromatography on DiaionHP 20, and the product was eluted first with water and then with mixed solutions of water and methanol while successively changing the mixing ratio. up to 75 25. The fractions containing the desired product were collected by filtration, concentrated, and lyophilized to provide 200 mg of Z 7 alpha 2 amino 4 thiazolyl alpha methoxyiminoacet amido 3 3 amino 4 methylpyridiniomethyl cephen 4 carboxylic acid. NNMR DMSO d6 pm 2.24 3H, s, 2.8 3 3.6 0 2 B, q, 3.7 8 3 H, s, 4.82 5.6 0 2 H, q, 5.0 0 1 H. d, 5.69 1H, dd,EMI49.1 6.42 2H, broad s, 6.6 5 1 H, s,EMI49.2 7.14 2H, broad s, 7.55 1H, d, 8.3 1 1 H. d, 8.42 1 H, s,EMI49.3 9.48 1H, d, CONH IR KBr cm Ú 3300, 3175, 1765, 1650 1600, 1H 1520 FABMS M H 504 Example 10EMI50.1 i In 20 ml of dichloromethane was suspended 680 mg of 7 amino 3 iodomethyl cephem 4 carboxylic acid and after adding thereto 1.12 ml of N, O bis trimethylsilyl trifluoroacetamide, the resultant mixture was stirred for 10 minutes at room temperature to provide a solution.To the solution was added 360 mg of 4 methoxy 3 oxo3,4 dihydro 2H pyrido 4,3 b 1,4 oxazine, and the mixture was stirred for 5 hours at room temperature to provide a solution containing trimethylsilyl 7 trimethylsilyl amino 3 Cc6 4 methoxy 3 oxo 3,4 d1hydro 2H pyridoC4,3 b9 1,4 oxczinio methyl j3 cephe 4 carboxylate iodide.ii In 10 ml of dichloromethane was suspended 886 mg of Z alpha 2 tritylamino 4 thiazolyl alpha methoxyimioacetic acid and after cooling the mixture to 3 to 40C and adding thereto 416 mg of phosphorus pentachloride, the mixture was stirred for 15 minutes at 3 4 C to provide a Solution A . A solution containing trimethylsilyl 7 trimethylsilylamino 3 6 4 methoxy 3 oxo 3,4 dihydro 2H pyrido 4,3 b 1,4 oxazinio methyl cephem 4 carboxylate iodide obtained at 10i above was coole to 40 C and after adding thereto 0.8 ml of Fyridine, Solution A was added dropwise to the mixture, The temperature of the mixture was increased to 154C overt a period of 15 minutes. To the reaction mixture were added 5 ml of.tetrahydrofuran.and 4 ml of 1 N hydrochloric acid, and the mixture was stirred for 10 minutes under ice cooling. Dichloromethane and tetrahydrofuran were distilled away, and 100 ml of water was added to the residue.The formed precipitates were collected by filtration to provide a crude product of the compound having protective groups. To the product was added 20 ml of trifluoroacetic acid and after stirring the mixture for 15 minutes at room temperature, insoluble materials were removed by filtration. To the filtrate was added 6 ml of water, and the mixture was stirred for l hour at room temperature.The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. To the residue was added ether, and the formed powder was collected by filtration to provide 1.33 g of a crude product. To the product were added 50 ml of water and 5 ml of 1 N hydrochloric acid, and the resulting solution was subjected to column chromatography on Diaion HP 20. The product was eluted first with water and then with mixed solutions of water and methanol while changing the mixing ratio from 95 5 to 80 20. The fractions containing the desired compound were collected, concentrated, and lyophilized to provide 155 mg of Z 7 alpha 2 amino 4 thiazolyl alpha methoxyimino acetamido 3 6 4 methoxy 3 oxo 3,4 dihydro 2H pyrido 4,3 b 1,4 oxazinio methyl cephem 4 carboxylate. FABMS M H 576IR KBr disk cm Ú 1035, 1335, 1380, 1525. 1610, 1665, 1715, 1770, 3350NMR DMSO d6 pm 2.90 3.62, 2H, q 3.78 , 3H, s 3.94 , 3H, s 4.9 5.6 , 2H, q 5.04 , 2H, d 5.16 , 2H, s 5.6 2 , 1 H , dd 6.66 , 1H, s 7.1 6 broad, s 7.60 , 1H, d 9.0 , 1h, d 9.4 4 , l H , sEMI52.1 Example 11EMI53.1 i In 20 ml of dichloromethane was suspended 680 mg of 7 amino 3 iodomethyl cephem 4 carboxylic acid and after adding thereto 1.68 ml of N,O bis trimethylsilyl trifluoroacetamide, the resultant mixture was stirred for 10 minutes at room temperature to provide a solution. To the solution was added 300 mg of 3 oxo 3,4 dihydro 2H pyrido 4,3 b l,4 oxazine and the mixture was stirred for 4 hours at room temperature to provide a solution containing trimethylsilyl 7 trimethylsilylamino 3 t6 3 oxo 3,4 dihydro 2H pyridoL4,3 b oxazinio J methyl A3 cephem 4 carboxylate iodide. After cooling the solution to 450C, 0.8 ml of pyridine was added thereto. To the resultant mixture was added drowse Solution A contained at Example 10 ii , and the temperature of the mixture was increased to 150C over a period of 15 minutes. After adding to the reaction solution 5 ml of tetrahydrofuran and 5 ml of 1 N hydrochloric acid, the mixture was stirred for 10 minutes under ice cooling. Dichloromethane and tetrahydrofuran were distilled away under reduced pressure. To the residue was added 100 ml of water, and the formed precipitates were collected by filtratinn. to provide a crude product of the compound having protective groups. To the crude product was added 20 ml of trifluoroacetic acid under ice cooling, and the mixture was stirred.for 15 minutes at room temperature. Insoluble materials were removed by filtration and after adding 6 ml of water to the filtrate under ice cooling, the mixture was stirrea for 1 hour at room temperature. The reaction solution was concentrated under reduced pressure and after adding enter to the residue, the formed powder was collected by filtration to provide 1.08 g of a crude product. To the crude product were added 50 ml of water 5ml of 1 N hydrochloric acid, and the resulting solution was subjected to column chromatography on Diaion HP 20, and the product was eluted first with water and then mixed solutions of water and methanol while successively changing the mixing ratio frati 95 5 to 80.20The fractions containing the desired compound were collected, concentrated, and lyophilized to provide 235 mg of Z 7 alpha 2 amino 4 thiazolyl alpha methoxyimino acetamido 3 6 3 oxo 3,4 dihydro 2H pyrido 4,3 b 1,4 oxazinio methyl t3 cephem 4 carboxylate FABMS M H 546IR KBr disk cm Ú 1030, 1350, 1530, 1605, 1700, 1770, 3350NMR DMSO d6 pm 2.92 3.58, 2H, q 3.78 , 3H, s 4.88 5.56, 2H, q 4.94 , 2H, s 5.0 2 , l H , d , 5.62 , 1H, dd, 6.66 m 1H, s, 7.14. broad , z 7.54 , 1H, d, 8.80 , 1H, d 8.84 , 1H, sEMI55.1 example 12EMI56.1 In 20 ml of dichloromethane was suspended 680 mg of 7 amino 3 iodomethyl cephem 4 carboxylic acid and after adding thereto 1.68 ml of N,O bis trimethylsilyl trifluoroacetamide, the mixture was stirred for 10 minutes at room temperature to provide a solution To the solution was added 332 mg of 4 hydroxy 3 oxo 3,4 dihydro 2H pyrido 4,3 b oxazine, and the mixture was stirred for 4 hours at room temperature to provide a solution containing trimethylsilyl 7 trimethylsilylamino 3 6 4 hydroxy3 oxo 3,4 dihydro 2H pyrido 4,3 b 1,4 oxazinio methyl 3 3 cephem 4 carboxylate iodide This sÏlution was cooled to 50 C and after adding thereto 0.8 ml of pyridine and further adding dropwise Solution A obtained in Emmple 10ii , the temperature of the mixture was increased to 15 C over a period of 15 minutes. To the reaction mixture were added 5 ml of tetrabydrofur and 5 ml of 1 N hydrochloric acid, and the mixture was stirred for 10 minutes under ice cooling.Dichloromethane and tetrahydrofuran were distilled away under reduced pressure. To the residue was added 100 ml of water, and the preciptitates thus formed were collected by filtration to provide a crude product of the desired compound having protective groups. After adding to the crude product 20 ml of trifluoroacetic acid under icecooling and stirring the mixture for 15 minutes at room temperature, insoluble materials were removed by filtration. To the filtrate was added 6 ml of water under ice cooling, and the mixture was stirred for l hour at room temperature. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to the residue was added ether and the resulting powder was collected by filtration to provide 1.1 g of crude product.The crude product was dissolved by the addition of 50 ml of water and 5 ml of 1 N hydrochloric acid, and the solution was subjected to column chromatography on Diaion HP 20. The product was eluted first with water and then with mixed solutions of water and methanol while successively changing the mixing ratlo from 95 5 to 75 25. The fractions containing the desired compound were collected, concentrated, and lyophilized to provide 35.5 m of Z 7 alpha 2 amino 4 thiazolyl alpha mathoxyiminoacetamido 3 6 4 hydroxy 3 oxo 3,4 dihydro 2H pyrido 4,3 b 1,4 oxazinio methyl 3 n cephem 4 carboxylate. FABMS M H 562NMR DMSO d6 pm 2.88 3.60, 2H, 3.78 , 3 R , s 4.88 5.56 , 2H, q 5.06 , 1H, d 5.20 , 2H, s 5.66 , 1H, dd 6.72 , 1H, s 7.20 , broad S 7.60, 1H, d 8.8 6 , I H, d 9.3 4 , I H, sEMI58.1 Example 13EMI59.1 In 20 ml of dichloromethane was suspended 680 mg of 7 amino 3 iodomethyl cephem 4 carboxylic acid and after adding thereto 1.68 ml ofm N, O bis trimethlsilyl trifluoroacetamide, the mixture was stirred for 10 minutes at room temperature to provide a solution.To the solution was added 272 mg of 3,4 dihydro 2H pyrido 4,3 b 1,4 oxazine, and the mixture was stirred for 3.5 hours at room temperature to provide a solution containing trimethylsilyl 7 trimethylsilylamino 3 6 3,4 dihydro 2H pyrido 4,3 b 1,4 oxazino methyl cephem 4 carboxylate iodide. The solution was cooled to 45 C and after adding thereto 0.8 ml of pyridine and further adding dropwise Solution A obtained in Example 10 ii , the tetnperature of the mixture was increased to 15 C over a period of 15 minutes. To the reaction mixture were added 5 ml of tetrahydrofuran and 5 ml of I N hydrochloric acid, and the mixture was stirred for 10 minutes under ice cooling.Dichloro methane and tetrahydrofuran were distilled away under reduced pressure. To the residue was added 100 ml of water, and the formed precipitates were collected by filtration to provide a crude product of the desired compound having protective groups. To the crude product was added 20 ml of trifluoroacetic acid under ice cooling,and the mixture was stirred for 15 minutes at room temperature. Insoluble materials were removed by filration. To the fitrate was added 6ml of water under ice cooling, and the mixture was stirred for I hour at room temperature. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and after adding ether to the residue to powder it, the formed powder. was collected by filtration to provide 1.15 g of a crude product.The crude product was dissolved by the addition of 50 ml of water and 5 ml of 1 N hydrochloric acid, and the solution was subjected to column cbrcoatography on Diaion HP 20, and the product was eluted first with water and then with mixed solutIons of water and methanol while successively changing the mixing ratio from 95 5 to 75 25. The fractions containing the desired compound were collected7 concentrated, and lyophilized to provide 267 mg of Z 7 2 amino 4 thiazolyl methoxyiminoacetamido 3 6 3,4 dihydro 2H pyrido 4,3 b 1,4 oxazinio methyl X3 cephem 4 carboxylate. FABMS M H 532IR KBr disk cm Ú 1025, 1340, 1525, 1610, 1760, 3300NMR DMSO d6 pm 2.84 3.56 , 2 R, q 3.40 , 2H, broad 3.80 , 3H, s, 4.40 , 2H, broad 4.76 5.54 , 2H, q, 5.06 , 1H, d, 5.62 , 1 , dd , 6.72 , 1H, s, 7.28 , 1H, d, 8.38 , 1H, d, 8.68 , 1H, s,EMI61.1 Example of a pharmaceutical composition 5 g of the compound of Example 5, namely, Z 7 2 amino 4 thiazoLyl l methoxyiminoacetamido 3 3 amino 4 methoxy pyridiniomethyl cephem 4 carboxylate, was dissolved in water for injection q.s. to provide 25 ml of an aqueous solution . The solution was sterilized by filtration using a filter having pore size of 0.45 m. The sterile solution was filled into 5 ml vials, and lyophilized. The vials were sealed to obtain intramuscular injections.