# CONTRAST AGENTS FOR NMR IMAGING

## Claims
Kontrastmittel zur Bilderzeugung mittels magnetischer Kernresonanz zum Abtasten von Gewebe, welches Bläschen mit in ihnen eingekapseltem, paramagnetischem Material enthält, wobei diese Bläschen mit einem Mittel zur Förderung der Bläschenstabilität während einer für die Bioverteilung dieser Bläschen ausreichenden Zeit formuliert sind, damit das Gewebe abgetastet werden kann, und welches so formuliert ist, daß ein adäquater Wasserprotonenaustausch durch die Bläschendoppelschicht möglich ist, um den Kontrast für das Abtasten des Gewebes zu besorgen.

## Description
The invention described herein relates to enhanced contrast in nuclear magnetic resonance NMR imaging through the use of a paramagnetic material in association with micellular particles such as phospholipid vesicles. NMR imaging of humans is fast becoming a major diagnostic tool. Resolution is now on a par with X ray CT imaging, but the key advantage of NMR is its ability to discriminate between tissue types contrast on the basis of differing NMR relaxation times, T₁ and T₂. Because nuclear relaxation times can be strongly affected by paramagnetic ions such as Mn II and Gd III or stable free radicals, these materials have been explored to determine their ability to provide further contrast, specifically to test whether they alter water proton T₁ and T₂ values in excised animal organs and in live animals see, for example, Mendonca Dias et al, However, useful compounds, due to the nature of the candidate paramagnetic materials, may be toxic at the concentrations required for optimal effect, and finding contrast agents for which the toxicity is low enough to make possible their eventual use in medical diagnosis is regarded as the most serious and difficult problem in the field, Mendonca Dias et al, Another significant problem which must be addressed is that the maximum tissue volume occupied by micelles such as vesicles generally does not exceed about 0.1 , which means that the micelle must be capable of affecting an image with a very small volume percentage. In this regard, however, paramagnetic NMR contrast agents differ fundamentally from contrast agents used as X ray absorbers, gamma ray emitters or the like in other imaging modalities in which the signal or attenuation is simply proportional to the number per unit volume, no matter how they are chemically bound or entrapped. In NMR, the agent ion or stable free radical acts to increase the relaxation rate of bulk water protons surrounding the free electron spin. The phenomenon depends on rapid exchange of water on and off an ion or rapid diffusion of water past an organic free radical. In such case, the net relaxation rate is a weighted average for free and bound water. Encapsulation of the paramagnetic material within a phospholipid vesicle, as in one preferred form of this invention, would seem to deny access of the paramagnetic agent to all but the entrapped water, typically less than 0.1 of the total volume. Under such conditions, the NMR image would not be altered detectably by the presence of vesicle encapsulated contrast agent. Only if water exchanges sufficiently rapidly across the bilayer is the relaxation rate of the bulk water enhanced, Andrasko et al, Phospholipid vesicles are known to concentrate in certain tissues, so additional enhancement will come from tissue specificity. For example, phospholipid vesicles have been observed to accumulate in implanted tumors of mice, Proffitt et al, The invention also extends the use of micellular particles as contrast agent carriers to applications where the micelles are attached to antibodies. While it has been reported that a selective decrease in T₁ relaxation times of excised heart may be obtained using manganese labeled monoclonal antimyosin antibody, Brady, et al, The invention described herein is directed to preparations of micellular particles such as small unilamellar vesicles, with which a paramagnetic material is associated, typically paramagnetic compounds enclosed within the vesicles. The vesicles may or may not have antibodies, such as antimyosin, or antifibrin, attached to the surface or have other surface modifications for which there are specific cell receptors in certain tissue. Examples of vesicle constituents are phospholipids such as distearoylphosphatidylcholine DSPC , dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine DPPC , and dimyristoylphosphatidylcholine DMPC . Examples of paramagnetic materials are salts of transition metals and the lanthanide and actinide series of the periodic table such as Gd III , Mn II , Cu II , Cr III , Fe II , Fe III , Co II , Er III , nickel II and complexes of such ions with diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid DTPA , ethylenediamintetraacetic acid EDTA and other ligands. Other paramagnetic compounds include stable free radicals such as organic nitroxides. Vesicle encapsulated contrast agents may be prepared by forming the lipid vesicles in an aqueous medium containing the paramagnetic agent by any suitable means such as sonication, homogenization, cholate dialysis and the like, and then freeing the vesicles of external agent by ultrafiltration, gel filtration or similar method. Moreover, the internal solution of the paramagnetic material may be altered readily to maximize the relaxation rate per unit of agent as for example, by formulation with a charged polymeric material such as poly L Lysine. As used herein, micellular particle and micelles refer to particles which result from aggregations of amphiphilic molecules. In this invention, preferred amphiphiles are biological lipids. Vesicle refers to a micelle which is in a generally spherical form, often obtained from a lipid which forms a bilayered membrane and is referred to as a liposome . Methods for forming these vesicles are, by now, very well known in the art. Typically, they are prepared from a phospholipid, for example, distearoyl phosphatidylcholine or lecithin, and may include other materials such as neutral lipids, and also surface modifiers such as positively or negatively charged compounds. Depending on the techniques for their preparation, the envelope may be a simple bilayered spherical shell a unilamellar vesicle or may have multiple layers within the envelope multi lamellar vesicles . DSPC distearoyl phosphatidylcholine Complexes of paramagnetic compounds were prepared in deionized water or in a buffer of 4.0 mM Small unilamellar vesicles SUV were formed in a solution of 200 mM Gd III DTPA by adding 2.0 ml of the stock ion complex to the dried lipid tube. The mixture was complex to the dried lipid tube. The mixture was sonicated using an Ultrasonics, Inc. probe with a microtip at a power level of 56 W. The tube was cooled by partial immersion in a water bath, and N₂ was flowed over the sample during sonication. Total time of sonication was 15 min. or more until the solution was slightly opalescent. Paramagnetic agent outside the vesicles was separated from the SUVs by passage through columns of Sephadex G 50 swollen in PBS, that had been loaded into 3 ml plastic syringe bodies and precentrifuged. The vesicle solution was placed at the top of the syringe and centrifuged with a glass tube positioned to collect the eluate. 300 µ 1 PBS was used to elute the vesicles from the columns. The procedure was repeated a total of 3 times to reduce the outside concentration of free agent and to exchange it for PBS. Vesicle concentration in the final preparation was measured by counting an aliquot of the solution in the scintillation counter, using a standard cocktail. Average vesicle size was measured in a laser particle sizer Model 200 Nicomp Instruments . The vesicle size was measured to be 600 100 o A cm Unless otherwise indicated, measurements of T₁ and T₂ were made at 20 MHz with a pulsed NMR spectrometer IBM PC 20 interfaced to a microcomputer IBM PC . T₁ was measured by the inversion recovery method Farrar, T.C., Becker, E.D., EMT6 tumor tissue was transplanted subcutaneously into the flank of male Balb c mice and allowed to grow for 10 days. On the 10th day, mice were injected i.v. with 200µl of vesicle solution or control buffer. Mice were sacrificed at intervals, and the tumors were dissected. In some experiments liver and spleen were also dissected. The tissue was rinsed in PBS, lightly blotted, weighed, and wrapped in air tight plastic bags. NMR relaxation measurements were made within 1 2 hr of dissection to limit water loss and consequent changes in T₁ and T₂. Figure 1 is a plot of longitudinal relaxation rate as a function of added paramagnetic ion concentration. Aliquots of the stock solutions were added to PBS buffer. T₁ measurements were made at 10 MHz using the 90 90 method. Probe temperature was 25 . Concentration scale for Er EDTA is in mM units while for Mn citrate the units are µ M. In Figure 2, the dependence of 1 T₁ on added Gd ion in various forms is illustrated. Aliquots of stock solutions were added to water Gd citrate or PBS Gd DTPA and Gd DTPA in vesicles to give the total concentration of ion indicated. Figure 3 illustrates internal paramagnetic ion complex concentration effects on 1 T₁ and 1 T₂. DSPC cholesterol vesicles were prepared with increasing concentrations of Gd DTPA in PBS encapsulated inside. The lipid vesicle concentrations were all adjusted with PBS to be equal at 8.3 mg ml total lipid final concentration. Figure 4 illustrates relaxation rates of mouse tissue and tumors. Balb c mice were injected with 200 µ 1 of 200 mM Gd DTPA in DSPC cholesterol vesicles 10 mg ml lipid Gd Ves , 200 mM La DTPA in DSPC cholesterol vesicles La Ves , 2.0 mM Gd DTPA in PBS Gd Buf or PBS Buf . After 16 hrs, the mice were sacrificed and the tissues dissected. Relaxation times are the average for at least 3 animals. Figure 5 shows the effect of added poly L lysine on relaxation rates of Gd DTPA solutions. Dry weighed aliquots of poly L lysine were dissolved in 2.0 ml of 2.0 mM Gd DTPA in H₂O. T₁ and T₂ were measured as described in the text. Figure 6 illustrates the time course of 1 T₁ for mouse tumors. Preparations of 10 mg ml lipid vesicles containing 200 mM Gd DTPA inside were injected 200 µ 1 into the tail vein of Balb C mice having 10 day old EMT6 tumors from previous implants. The mice were sacrificed at intervals and T₁ of the tumors measured immediately after dissection. Controls were either no injection 0 or 200 µ 1 of 2.0 mM Gd DTPA in PBS . Three separate experiments are collected in this graph. For the ο and data, the points each represent T₁ for a single tumor. For the data, 2 or 3 T₁ values were occasionally measured for a single tumor. Referring now in more detail to the figures of drawing, the improved results of the present invention will be discussed. In Figure 1, relaxation rates of Er EDTA and Mn citrate solutions are shown. Values of 1 T₁ are plotted as a function of ion concentration at 10 MHz and 25 C. The average value of 1 T₁ for mouse soft tissue is indicated on the graph. The concentration scale for Er EDTA is millimolar while that for Mn citrate is micromolar. Addition of 18 mM Er EDTA complex to a PBS solution increases 1 T₁ to the mouse tissue value of 2.4 In Figure 2, the relaxation effects of Gd III are shown. At 20 MHz the addition of Gd citrate to H₂O increases 1 T₁ to a value of 8.1 s The effect of internal paramagnetic ion complex concentration on relaxation rates for vesicle encapsulated Gd DTPA is shown by Figure 3. 1 T₁ and 1 T₂ for vesicle solutions increase linearly up to 150 mM internal Gd DTPA concentration. Relaxation effects on mouse tissue and tumors are illustrated in Figure 4. The T₁ values of Balb c mouse liver, spleen, kidney and EMT6 tumor tissue are compared 16 hours after injection of paramagnetic agents or controls. Vesicle encapsulated Gd DTPA promotes a significant reduction in T₁ for spleen and for EMT6 tumors compared to the control of the diamagnetic Lanthanide ion complex of La DTPA in vesicles spleen or PBS buffer plus 2.0 mM Gd DTPA. tumor . In the case of Gd DTPA vesicle treated mice, the T₁ values averaged 17 less than controls without injected agent. The foregoing data allow an estimate of the minimum Gd DTPA or other paramagnetic species concentrations inside vesicles which provide contrast enhancement. There is a complex set of interrelating factors, such as proton exchange rate across membranes of the tumor cells, wash out rate of free Gd DTPA from lipid vesicles, and altered rotational correlation time of the complex in a macromolecular environment, which contributes to the T₁ proton relaxation rate and subsequent contrast enhancement. The amount of accumulated vesicles in a particular tissue to be imaged dictates the minimum concentration of encapsulated paramagnetic material. For this Murine tumor model, it has been inferred that approximately 0.1 of the tumor volume is occupied by intact vesicles. While the quantity of paramagnetic material to be encapsulated will vary, depending upon the specific material used as well as the factors mentioned above, in general, the paramagnetic material will be at least approximately 50 m Figure 5 illustrates the enhanced relaxation rates through addition of a polymer. The relaxation effect of Gd DTPA can be enhanced by the addition of the positively charged polymer, poly L lysine. Figure 5 shows the result of adding poly L Lys of average MW 25,000 to a solution of 2.0 mM Gd DTPA in H Time course of relaxation effect on EMT6 tumors is shown in Figure 6. The maximal effect of vesicle encapsulated Gd DTPA is achieved 3 4 hrs after injection of the agent. The average effect at 4 hrs is approximately equal to that at 16 hrs post injection, suggesting that a steady state condition obtains where the rate of uptake by tumor is matched by loss of agent to the circulation. Three different liposome formulations were tested at doses higher than used for data of Figure 6 for their relaxation effects on EMT6 tumors subcutaneously implanted in Balb c mice. The mice were injected intravenously with the agent and then sacrificed at intervals. Tumor and liver T₁ values were measured within 1 2 hour of sacrifice of the animal. The results are set forth in Table I for tumors and in Table II for liver. Animals receiving only buffer had an average tumor T₁ value of 960 41 ms n 25 and an average liver T₁ value of 392 31 ms n 24 . The tumor relaxation time decreased to 665 28 ms n 4 at 24 hours post injection for the 1 1 DSPC CHOL formulation, while the livers of these animals had average T₁ values of 370 13 ms n 4 . The T₁ change of 44 for the tumors is substantially larger than that for the liver 6 . With many liposome formulations in common use, liver and spleen accumulate the largest fraction of the vesicle dose. The particular formulation of the present invention is thus far more specific for the tumor, at least in its effect on NMR relaxation times. The vesicle encapsulated paramagnetic complex of the present invention accordingly fulfills the requirement of an NMR imaging contrast agent that is, it leads to reduced values of T₁ in selected tissues. In this case, the original long T₁ of the tumor before contrast agent average 960 ms will leave the tumor dark in an NMR image, while, after injection of agent, the tumor would appear brighter in the scan. For an NMR imaging contrast agent to be most useful, it must yield the maximum increase of 1 T₁ possible with minimum toxicity, and have specificity for tissue type. The invention provides these features. A macromolecular assembly can increase the relaxation effect per unit ion, as demonstrated by the effect of added poly Lys on 1 T₁ and 1 T₂ of Gd DTPA solutions Figure 5 . Low toxicity is gained by associating the normally toxic paramagnetic ion with a strong chelate in a macromolecular assembly e.g. encapsulation in a vesicle which keeps the ion out of circulation. NMR relaxation is enhanced by formulating the vesicle to maximize access of H₂O protons to the ion. This was accomplished as shown by the strong relaxation effect of encapsulated Gd DTPA Figure 2 . Tissue specificity is provided by the complex nature of the micellular assembly for which biological recognition processes cause the macromolecule to distribute to certain sites. This is demonstrated for phospholipid vesicles by the differential influence on tissue relaxation rates Figure 4, tables I and II and by the specific effect on tumor relaxation of Gd DTPA encapsulated in vesicles versus approximately the same total concentration of Gd DTPA free in solution Figures 4 and 6 . It has been described herein that antibodies can be bound to vesicles to obtain tissue specificity, Martin et al,