# METHOD FOR THE SUPPRESSION OF MAGNETOSTATIC WAVES WITHIN MAGNETIC GARNET FILMS FOR MICROWAVE CIRCUIT APPLICATION

## Claims
Verfahren zum Unterdrücken von magnetostatischen Wellen in Granatfilmen für Mikrowellen Anwendungsbereiche, gekennzeichnet durch die Verwendung von epitaxialen Schichten wenigstens eines Granatfilms mit geringem magnetischen Verlust, der als magnetostatische Schicht dient und aus YIC oder La, Ga YIG besteht, und wenigstens eines Granatfilms mit hohem magnetischen Verlust, der als Absorptionsschicht dient und mit hochmagnetischen Relaxationsionen dotiert ist, wobei die epitaxialen Schichten gleiche oder ähnliche Magnetisierung haben.

## Description
The invention concernes a method for the controlled suppression of magnetic waves in garnet films for microwave applications. In Patent Abstracts of Japan, vol. 5, no. 15 E 43 687 , 29th January 1981, JP A 55 143 009, a material for surface static magnetic wave is proposed to improve the excitation and propagation characteristics of said wave. This object is achieved by coating a YIG thin film containing special element on a gadolinium gallium garnet substrate when forming a surface static magnetic wave device. A similar device is known by EP A 21 878 which is part of the prior art as specified in the preamble of claim 1. The present invention applies to a planar technology for the partial or total suppression of magnetostatic modes. It figures among those materials technologies through which microwave signal processors may be constructed, with particular reference to radar systems, electronic warfare, telecommunication satellites, avionics and related instrumentation. Such systems pose continous requests for higher operational frequencies and wider bandwidths. This fact acts as an incentive in the search for new techniques and technologies for signal processing. A new analogue technique makes its appearance in this scenario, useable in the microwave field, based upon magnetostatic wave propagation MSW in Yttrium Iron garnet class ferrimagnetic films YIG, Y₃,Fe₅O₁₂ and cationic replaced derivations such as La,Ga YIG having low losses, realized by means of liquid phase epitaxy LPE .MSW are slow electromagnetic waves which propagate at microwave frequencies in magnetically biased ferrites. Their salient features are Devices using MSSW have cutoff frequencies given by Devices operating in volume modes have respectively the following cutoff frequencies As an example fig.2 shows a typical ferrimagnetic resonance FMR spectrum on a square chip 2.3x2.3 mm² made of YIG, at the fixed frequency of 9.26 GHz, where field H A typical experimental set up for FMR ferromagnetic resonance spect. detection is outlined in fig.3. As a consequence of the above, by varying bias field H The most direct consequence of this fact is the possibility of delaying a microwave signal which has been injected, in an opportune manner, into the epitaxial film by means of microstrip transducers laid directly onto the magnetic film or, better still, onto an allumina substrate which can then be faced to the magnetic film. Other possible applications, thanks to the low magnetic losses, are in the field of filters, resonators and oscillators. In some circuit applications, such as filters, it may be necessary to attenuate or to suppress single modes or entire regions of the magnetostatic band. The present invention has as an object the partial or total suppression of such modes, without increasing insertion losses of devices and assuring a complete rejection of spurious signals, which are undesirable within the bandwidth. This can be achieved by modifying the magnetostatic spectrum by use of multilayer structures of epitaxial magnetic films which manifest diverse magnetic relaxation characteristics. It is a well known fact 1 that the relaxation of the single magnetic ions contained within the crystal lattice, which is due to a number of physical processes, determines the total propagation losses within the sample. The working principle of the present invention is that of overlaying, by means of further LPE growth, the magnetostatic low loss garnet layer e.g. YIG, or La, Ga YIG with an absorption layer of garnet doped with high magnetic relaxation ions such as Fe⁴ ,Fe² ,Co² , Rare Earths, etc. . As a consequence, in an FMR experiment, modes which are related to the magnetostatic layer and which fit that area of the magnetic field which coincides with the lossy area related to the absorption layer, are in part attenuated or totally suppressed cfr. fig.4 . From a physical viewpoint, the magnetic losses of this second layer are, for Fe⁴ or Fe² ions, in the main due to vortex current relaxation processes 2 arising from the presence of such ions which introduce an appreciable conductivity into the garnet σ 10 ³ Ω ¹ cm ¹ against σ 10 ² Ω ¹ cm ¹ of pure garnets . As this process is a function of the number of relaxing ions, of frequency, conductivity and chip surface area, as a consequence, the lossy region related to the absorption layer can be conveniently tailored by operating upon such parameters. Relaxing ions enhancement within single or multiple absorption layers may be achieved by making recourse to different dopants during LPE growth Liquid phase epitaxy . For total electrical charge compensation Fe⁴ ions may, for instance, be generated through partial substitution within the garnet by means of bivalent diamagnetic ions such as Ca² particularly effective , Mg² ,Be² ,Zn² ,Sr² . In the case of Fe² ions, on the contrary, replacement by tetravalent diamagnetic ions may be exploited, such as Ge⁴ ,Si⁴ ,Th⁴ ,Hg⁴ ,Zr⁴ ,Ti⁴ ,Sn⁴ or pentavalent such as V⁵ ,Nb⁵ ,Ta⁵ or monovalent such as Li . Noticeable dissipating effects may also be obtained by direct embodiment of relaxing ions such as Co² and Rare Earths Er³ ,Ho³,Dy³ , etc but not La³ and Lu³ . As an illustrative yet not limitative example the present invention will now be described with reference to the figures attached Fig. 5c shows the implementation of a lossy termination for the attenuation or the suppression of disturbance magnetostatic modes which are due to periferic reflections within low loss garnet films used for the implementation of microwave signal processing devices, such as delay lines, resonators, oscillators, filters. The present invention affords a selectivity in the order of a few tens of MHz furthermore its planar configuration gives way to an ease of integration within more complex structures, such as delay lines, resonators, oscillators, etc. The multilayer epitaxial film configurations which are the subject of the present invention have nothing to do with other structures, already known, of overlaying different magnetization strata still having low magnetic losses , or ground planes,which, independently from the fact that they may not be industrially implementable, by modifying only the boundary conditions of the magnetostatic films, modify the dispersion characteristics of the magnetostatic modes without making their attenuation or suppression possible.