# SYSTEM FUNCTION SIMULATION METHOD AND APPARATUS

## Claims
Verfahren zum Betrieb eines Datenverarbeitungssystems, um die Funktionen eines verteilten Systems zu simulieren, das aus unabhängig voneinander und asynchron arbeitenden Prozessen aufgebaut ist, die Information zwischeneinander übertragen, mit folgenden Schritten

## Description
The present invention relates to a function simulation method and an apparatus therefor and, more particularly, to simulation method and apparatus which are suitable for function simulation of an asynchronously and parallel operable distributed system. In this simulation method, moreover, a Petri net model conducts the simulation of a function to transform the input data into the output data of the system. There has not yet been established a method which is suitable for simulating the functions of an asynchronous self controlled distributed system rather than a synchronous system. The Petri net, a numerical model for describing and analyzing the flow and control of data in an asynchronous, parallel system, was proposed by Petri in 1962. The Petri net model has been widely used and studied. See Special Feature Putting Petri nets to Work by Tilak Agerwala, IEEE, Computer, December 1979, pp. 85 to 94 and Petri Nets and Speed Independent Design by David Misunas, Communications of the ACM, Vol.16, No.8, August 1973 . Petri nets are expressed by an oriented graph which has two kinds of nodes, i.e., places and transitions. Arcs are oriented from the places to the transitions or vice versa. The places have tokens, and the arrangement of these tokens are called the markings of the Petri net model, the first of which is called the initial marking of the Petri net. When a system is to be simulated by a Petri net model, the passage of the token through the transition means that data are processed and output. The token indicates data movement, but it does not indicate which data structure has been transformed nor does it indicate what structure it has been transformed into. This has the obvious disadvantage that data transforming procedures which are crucial in the simulation of functions are left undisclosed. An object of the present invention is to simulate function of an asynchronous and parallel system with a Petri net model. Another object of the present invention is to provide a simulation system which can track changes in data structure as the simulation proceeds. These objects are solved with the method of claim 1 and the apparatus of claim 3 The present invention aims to comprehend not only the movements of tokens but also their data transformation procedures and to simulate asynchronous, parallel operation. An example of such a system is considered here where a plurality of cash dispensers for depositing and dispensing money by means of credit cards are coupled to a host computer. Fig. 1 is a block diagram showing the structure in which cash dispensers are coupled to a host computer. This is an example in which a number In Fig. 2, reference letters T Let us consider the on line system of a bank which comprises a host computer and cash dispensers so that information such as account numbers or amount of cash payment is exchanged between host computer and dispenser. The host computer computes and executes balance renewal, and the host dispensers verify cash cards and accept and dispense cash independently of one another. The processing flow will now be schematically explained. The cash card is received at transition T Fig. 3 shows the transition T Fig. 4 is a block diagram of the structure of an embodiment of the present invention. A whole structure table 31, a system structure table 32 and a data structure table 33 are mounted on a memory unit Me , which is stored with the data concerning the system to be simulated. A system determining program 34 reads in the simulation initializing point in the target system, which is determined by an input output device so as to prompt the simulation system 30. An information input program 35 displays the information required of the simulation system as the input demand in the input output device 36 and inputs the necessary information from that device to the simulation system 30. This simulation system 30 simulates, when it is informed of the target system and the simulation initialization point from the system determining program 34, the system which is stored in the whole structure table 31, the system structure table 32 and the data structure table 33, to display the procedures in the input output device 36. Next, the structural components of Fig. 4 will be described. The whole structure table 31 is shown in Fig. 5. A process distinguishing name, hereafter called the process name is used in constructing the system. This is stored in a memory area 4a PR₁ to PR Now, if it is assumed that information from the host computer of Fig. 2 is stored in the place PR₂, and that information from the cash dispenser of Fig. 2 is stored in the place PR The memory area 4b, FNK The memory area 4c i.e., IDS The memory area 4d i.e., ODS The system structure table 32 is shown in Fig. 6. The memory area 5a i.e., PF₁ to PF A memory area 5b i.e., TM₁ to TM A memory area 5c i.e., NF₁ to NF A memory area 5d i.e., NFF₁ to NFF A memory area 5e i.e., WSF₁ to WSF A memory area 5f i.e., PM₁ to PM A memory area 5g i.e., DSM₁ to DSM A memory area 5h i.e., PTM₁ to PTM A memory area 5 ℓ i.e., TFM₁ to TFM A memory area 5k i.e., TTM Next, the data structure table 32 is shown in Fig. 7. A memory area 6a i.e., DSE₁ to DSE A memory area 6c DUE₁ to Due A related memory area 6b i.e., DRM₁ to DRM The simulation system 30 containing the processor executes the process in the flow chart shown in Fig. 8. The operation of the present simulation system 30 will be described by considering a specific example, the system which is shown in Fig. 9. Fig. 9 a shows a simple system structure, the host computer and a cash dispenser coupled to the host computer. The process names indicate the relationship between the cash dispenser and the host computer. The data structure names to be transmitted from the cash dispenser to the host computer correspond to the cash payment data pulse train, and the data structure names to be transmitted from the host computer to the cash dispenser correspond to the cash payment amount. The host computer executes the functions to input, transform and output the data structures from the cash dispenser, namely, the functions for balance verification. Figs. 9 b and c show the data structures to flow between the processes. For example, the relationships between the data structure name cash payment data pulse train and the cash payment data are expressed by a pulse train. Figs. 9 d to f show the internal structures of the functions. Fig. 9 g shows the data structure of a portion of the data structure names shown in Figs. 9 d to g . Letters P and T indicate places and transitions, respectively. In Fig. 9 a , the system is constructed of processes called the cash dispenser and the host computer . The data called the cash payment data pulse train and the cash payment amount are transferred between the cash dispenser and the host computer. Fig. 9 b shows the structure of the data structure name cash payment data pulse train to be transmitted from the cash dispenser to the host computer, and shows that the cash payment data pulse train is given as the pulse train in sequence with the cash payment data composed of the account number and the cash payment amount. Fig. 9 d shows the Petri net model for the cash dispenser. The P The function assigned to the transition T The simulation system 30 conducts, at step 71 of Fig. 8, the initial determination of the whole structure table, the system structure table, the data structure table and the tokens, which are required for the simulations, in accordance with the system determining program 34 of Fig. 4. The whole structure table is prepared on the basis of the information shown in Fig. 9 a . Here, the whole structure of the present embodiment is shown in Fig. 10. The host computer is coupled to the cash dispensers. The function of the host computer, i.e., the balance verification is also used in the cash dispensers. Moreover, this function is executed when the tokens are at the place P The whole structure table reflecting the information of Fig. 9 a is shown in Fig. 11. The system structure table is prepared on the basis of the information shown in Figs. 9 d to f . The system structure table reflecting the information of Fig. 9 d is prepared in accordance with Fig. 6 and is shown in Fig. 12. Figs. 9 e and f are also prepared in a similar manner although not described in the present example . In Fig. 12, the token present flag memory area 5h is set at absence 0 , and the action requesting state flag memory area 5e is set at non stand by 0 . The data structure table is prepared on the basis of the information shown in Figs. 9 b , c and g . The data structure table reflecting the information of Figs. 9 b , c and g is shown in Fig. 13. Moreover, one or more tokens are set at the start position of the simulation at a process unit. The initial data thus far described are determined. An example of simulation will be described in the following where tokens are set at P At a step 72 of Fig. 8, all the token present flag memory areas of all the system structure tables are examined to determine all the places where the tokens are present. The present example corresponds to the cases in which the tokens are input from the input output device 36 and the P At a step 73 of Fig. 8, the respective tokens identified at step 72 are judged as to the relationships between places and transitions of the system structure table. It is determined whether the number of removal from place to the transition relationships is two or more, one or none. In the case of the present example, there exists the transition of removal from the T At step 74, it is determined in accordance with the result revealed at the step 73 whether the function to be executed next can be simulated. In case the number of the relationships examined at the step 73 and present between the places and the transitions is two or more, the destination of the token cannot be determined, but step 75 is executed. In the present example, the token at the P At a step 75, the content of the token removing memory area, which contains the relationship of the removal from place to transition is displayed on the input output device. Moreover, the transition to which the token is removed is selected. At step 76, the transition in the place where the token is removed is input from the input device of the input output device 36 by the use of the information input program 35. At a step 77, synchronization of the destination transition found at steps 74 and 76 is confirmed. For the destination transition which has been identified at steps 74 and 76, as shown in Fig. 6, a search determines that all token present flags corresponding to place names relating to the removal from place to transition indicate presence , and that all token presence flags corresponding to the place names relating to the removal from the transition to the place indicate absence . If the token removal condition memory area is present at that time, it is searched to find whether the destination transition has been selected at step 76. For tokens having no destination transition, all place name token presence flags stored in the system structure table, in which the destination tokens are present, but have no relationship to the removal from place to transition are checked. Then, it is assumed that synchronization has been done for presence , but not for absence . At a step 78, if the results from step 77 reveal that all the token presence flags indicate presence , that the token is absent from the destination and that the removal condition of the token is satisfied, it is determined that synchronization has been taken in case the destination transition is selected, and the operation advances to step 79. Otherwise, the operation is returned to step 72. In the present example, both tokens are synchronized so as to be subjected to step 79. At this step 79, if the destination transition of the token of Fig. 6 to be removed is present, the detailed presence flag memory area 5d of the function of the transition is examined. In the case of the state of the absence of the detail of the function , the data of the place name token presence flag memory area relating to the removal from place to transition of the related memory area for place and transition of the destination transition are determined at absence , whereas the data for the place name token presence flag memory area 5 ℓ relating to removal from the transition to the place are determined at presence . In the memory area 5 ℓ the value 0 means no relationship that the value 1 means the removal from the place to the transition and that the value 1 means the removal from the transition to the place. Here, the column of the intersections of P For the condition details of the function are determined , the action requesting condition flag memory area 5e corresponding to said transition is set at 1 , indicating that the token is being removed to another system structure table , to examine the system structure table which is coincident with the discriminator stored in the function name or process name memory area 5a of that system structure table coinciding with the function name of the function name memory area 5c. The coinciding system structure table will be called the destination system structure table , which is the system structure table in which said token is present. The memory area 5e is set at 0 in the absence of the request. In the place transition relating memory area 5ℓ of the destination system structure table, it is possible to determine the data structure name belonging to the place name to which the token can be removed from the destination transition. In the data structure name memory area of the destination system structure table, one coincident with said data structure name is examined, and the flag for the token present flag memory area corresponding to the coincident data structure name is set at present . In the system structure table, the token present flag indicating the token to be removed is set at the absent . In case the destination transition of the token to be removed is absent, both the function name of the function name or process name memory area of the system structure table, in which said token to be removed is present, which will be called the destination system structure table , and the data structure name corresponding to the name of the place, in which said token is present, are examined which will be called the destination function name and destination data structure name . Next, the function name memory area of another system structure table is examined to find one the with the destination function name. If a matching name is found, it is determined whether or not the data of the action requesting state flag memory area corresponding to the coincident function name are in the state where the token is being removed to another system structure table . If not matching name is found, the search continues. If a matching name is found, the data for the action requesting state flag memory area are set at non stand by , and the token present flag memory area for the place name having the data structure name coincident with the destination data structure name is set at present whereas the token presence flag indicating the destination token of the destination system structure table is set at absent . At step 80, the input data structure and the output data structure of the transition, through which the token has passed, are prepared. More specifically, the data structures, which have been held by the tokens present in all the places of the place names relating to the transition names at the previous step, are prepared with reference to Fig. 7. In other words, the relationships between the data structure names and the subordinate data structure names, and the subordinate data structure names are examined in view of the data structure table by using as keys, those data structure names which correspond to the place names for preparing the data structure. The subordinate data structure names attained as a result of the examinations are further examined in a similar manner. These examinations are repeated when examination has revealed that no subordinate data structure names are present. At step 81, the execution procedures for the aforementioned functions are displayed on the input output device 36. At the end of the present step, the operation is returned to step 72. Fig. 14 shows an example a built in Petri net model in the transition T Transition T The display procedures when the system simulation in this example is executed are shown in Figs. 15 a to d and Fig. 16 a to c . Here, the display procedrues shown are those which are executed by the uppermost rank function. Fig. 15 shows the operation of the whole system macroscopically. The cash dispenser executes cash card reception as a result of the first transition, and the host computer waits for the execution of balance certification as shown in Fig. 15 a . As a result of the second transition, as shown in Fig. 15 b , the cash dispenser executes reception of cash payment , and the host computer is awaits for balance certification . As a result of the third transition as shown in Fig. 15 c , the cash dispenser requests balance certification of the host computer and waits for it while the host computer executes balance certification . As a result of the fourth transition, as shown in Fig. 15 d , the cash dispenser executes cash payment , and the host computer executes balance renewal . Upon the third transition, payment data are removed from the cash dispenser to the host computer. Upon the fourth transition, cash payment amount is delivered from the host computer to the cash dispenser. Figs. 16 a to c show the data structure transformation procedures by the specific token removal. Of the displayed examples, Fig. 16 c shows the first transition display. In Fig. 16 the solid circle indicates the initial position of the token the blank circle indicates the first position the solid triangle indicates the second position the blank triangle indicates the third position and the solid square indicates the fourth position. Figs. 17 a and b show the changes of the token presence flags of the function simulation shown in Fig. 12. Fig. 17 a shows the cash dispenser token presence flag and corresponds to Fig. 16 a . Fig. 17 b shows the token presence flag in the host computer and corresponds to Fig. 16 b . With the present system, function simulation of a distributed processing system can be executed properly even in a large, complex system. Although a cash dispenser has been described hereinbefore, the present invention can be similarly applied to other systems.