# Modified impact resistant vinyl aromatic polymers

## Claims
Modifizierte schlagzähe vinylaromatische Polymere, die einen mit dem Glanzmessergemessenen Glanz von mindestens 50 aufweisen und 2 bis 10 Gew. eines ethylenisch ungesättigten Nitrils und

## Description
As is known, as compared to the common impact resistant polystyrene, impact resistant vinyl aromaticcopolymers containing an ethylenically unsaturated nitrile exhibit improved mechanicalproperties and, mainly, a better resistance to cracking under load in the presence of chemical agents, suchas e.g. fluorinated products. From GB A 2,067,579 it is known that these impact resistant copolymers containing an ethylenicallyunsaturated nitrile are particularly suited for the production of cells of refrigerators which must be foamedon their back with polyurethane foam, the foaming agent being Freon a fluorinated product . This copolymer may also be useful for the manufacture of containers for fatty foodstuffs which, like inthe preceding case, may cause cracking of the usual impact resistant polystyrene. It has been observed, however, that impact resistant vinyl aromatic copolymers containing anethylenically unsaturated nitrile are not particularly suitable for injection molding, due to the rather poorappearance of the resulting articles. These aesthetic problems are troublesome in the case of articles formed by extrusion, but in this case itis possible to eliminate said defects by means of a surface treatment or by applying a film of a glossy and ortransparent material to the surface. This procedure is usually followed in the production of plates to be utilized in the thermoforming ofcells and inner doors of refrigerators. It is an object of the present invention to provide impact resistant vinylaromatic copolymerscontaining an ethylenically unsaturated nitrile which nevertheless do not show the above drawbacks. More particularly, it is an object of this invention to provide impact resistant vinylaromatic copolymerscontaining an ethylenically unsaturated nitrile, which are particularly suitable for injection molding. It has been found that this and other objects are achievable by utilizing modified impact resistant vinyl aromaticcopolymers having a gloss of at least 50 , as measured by the glossmeter, and containing from 2to 10 by weight of an ethylenically unsaturated nitrile and EP A 103 657 is directed to rubber reinforced copolymers comprising a rubber component theviscosity of which is at least 120 mPa.s. Such copolymers cannot be used for injection molding since theresulting melt flow rate would be too small. DE A 1 300 241 describes a process for the production of a graft copolymer which shows goodprocessability and results in products with high surface gloss and impact resistance. Said reference does,however, not mention injection molding and also gives no indication as to the influence of the viscosity ofthe rubber component on the melt flow rate of the corresponding graft copolymer. The modified copolymers of the present invention, besides being suitable for extrusion without surfacetreatment, make it possible to obtain injection molded articles having a good surface appearance, bothwhen used alone and when used in admixture with other polymers compatible with said copolymers, suchas polycarbonates, polbutylene terephthalate, polyethylene terephthalate, etc. The presently preferred ethylenically unsaturated nitrile is acrylonitrile. Also, other ethylenicallyunsaturated nitrile monomers, such as methacrylonitrile and the like, can advantageously be employed. The impact resistant vinylaromatic copolymers of the present invention are obtainable according toknown polymerization processes, provided a mixture of vinyl aromatic unsaturated nitrile monmers isused as starting material and the stirring during polymerization is adjusted so as to obtain thecharacteristics mentioned above. The most generally employed polymerization processes are, as is known, suspension polymerization,mass suspension polymerization and continuous mass polymerization, which are broadly described in theliterature, such as for example in US A 2,694,692 and 2,862,906 and in Amos, Polymer Eng. Sci., 14 1974 1, pages 1 11. According to the mass suspension process, the rubber is first dissolved in the mixture of vinylaromatic unsaturatednitrile monomers, and the mixture is then subjected to thermal or catalyticpolymerization up to a conversion of about 30 and generally not higher than 50 . After this firstprepolymerization step, the mass is dispersed in water, under intense stirring and with the aid ofsuspending agents, and is subjected to polymerization, following an appropriate and well known thermaltreatment. The nitrile monomer can be added either in one portion, in part or during the polymerization. The reaction temperature may range from 50 to 170 C and preferably is from 100 to 160 C. Polymerization is generally accomplished in the presence of oil soluble catalysts, which can be addedo either at the beginning or during polymerization. Suitable catalysts are benzoyl peroxide, lauryl peroxide,di cumyl peroxide, tert.butyl perbenzoate, di tert butyl peroxide, etc. The prepolymerization can also be started thermally. If so desired, it is possible to employ a chaintransfer agent, such as, e.g., tert dodecylmercaptane or the like. At the beginning, during or at the end of the polymerization there may also be added lubricants, such as mineral oil, silicone oil and the like. in order to improve the flowability and processability of thecopolymer. As suspending agents there may be used either water soluble compounds of organic nature, such aspolyvinyl alcohol, acrylic copolymers, cellulose derivatives, partially saponified polyvinyl acetate, etc., orwater insoluble inorganic compounds, such as tricalcium phosphate, barium phosphate, etc., either aloneor in admixture with a surfactant or sodium sulphite. The suspending agents are generally employed inamounts ranging from 0.1 to 5 by weight with respect to the organic phase. The polymerization can also be conducted directly into suspension without mass prepolymerization,provided that the stirring of the reaction mass is carried out in a manner such that the above characteristicscan be obtained. According to the continuous mass polymerization, the rubber solution in the vinylaromatic unsaturatednitrile monomer mixture is continuously fed to and polymerized in reactors arranged in series,and subjected to stirring, according to an exactly defined temperature cycle, until a conversioon of morethan 50 is obtained. The mixture is then devolatilized under vacuum in order to remove the unreacted monomers, whichare then suitably recycled to the first reactor. The polymerization generally is conducted thermally in the presence of diluents, the most commonone being ethylbenzene, at temperatures ranging from 50 to 240 C, and preferably from 100 to 220 C. As example of a vinylaromatic monomer styrene is to be mentioned in the first place. Styrenesalkylated in the nucleus or in the side chain, such as alpha methyl styrene, vinyl toluene, etc., can also beemployed to advantage. The vinylaromatic monomers can be used either alone or in admixture with one another. The rubber components employed according to the present invention have been defined above.Suitable polybutadiene rubbers and copolymers of butadiene and styrene possess a glass transitiontemperature Tg below 20 C. These butadiene polymers may contain the monomers in differentconfigurations, for example a different cis configuration content, trans configuration content and vinylcontent, provided that the above polybutadiene rubber has a 1,4 cis content of 35 . The vinylaromatic copolymers of the present invention can be employed either as such or in admixturewith specific additives for the production of self extinguishing, antistatic, scratch proof, semi expandible,sunlight resistant types, etc. To determine the characteristics of the vinylaromatic copolymers of the present invention, thefollowing methods were employed Injection molding was effected at a temperature which was 20 C higher than the minimum fillingtemperature of the mold, while keeping the mold at about 65 C. Into a 160 l reactor equipped with an anchor stirrer, a reflux condenser and a thermometer, there wereplaced under continuous stirring After removal of the oxygen present in the reactor by nitrogen flushing, the mixture was subjected to amass prepolymerization at 115 C for 4 hours, until a conversion of about 30 was obtained. The stirringwas effected at 50 150 r min in order to obtain rubber particles with sizes below 1 µm. The prepolymerization syrup was transferred into an autoclave equipped with an impeller stirrer.containing water in a weight ratio water monomers rubber of 1 1. Thereafter there was added 0.5 byweight, with respect to water, of a suspending agent consisting of acrylic acid 2 ethyl hexylacrylatecopolymer in a weight ratio of 95 5. After addition of 0.25 by weight, based on the monomer rubber mixture of tert.butyl perbenzoate,the mixture, dispersed in water in the form of droplets, was polymerized at 115 C for 4 hours and at 140 Cfor 2 hours, until the conversion of the monomers to the polymer was complete. The resulting polymer was separated by centrifugation, repeatedly washed with water and dried at80 C. The polymer beads thus obtained were activated with 0.15 by weight of a phenolic antioxidant andtransformed to granules by means of extrusion. The properties of the resulting polymers are given in Table 2.