# Human suppressor factors and method of using them.

## Abstract
New factors have been identified which suppress mitogen, antigen or alloantigen driven cellular proliferation of human peripheral blood leukocytes, as well as antibody synthesis and secretion and growth of human tumor cell lines. Such factors have potential use for the treatment of graft versus host disease, autoimmuno disease and lymphoproliferative disorders such as leukemia as well as other malignancies.

## Claims
What is Claimed 1. Human suppressor factor characterized by suppression of mitogen or antigen driven cellular proliferation of human peripheral blood leukocytes and suppression of antibody production. 2. Human suppressor factor of Claim 1 as produced by human tumor cells or cell lines. 3. Suppressor factor of Claim 1 as produced by human hematopoietic cells or cell lines. 4. Human suppressor factor of claim 1 of relative molecular weight 55 70,000 daltons. 5. Suppressor factor of Claim 2 as produced by human erythroleukemic cells in culture. 6. Suppressor factor of Claim 4 as produced by human lymphoblastoid cells. 7. Suppressor factor of Claim 6 as produced by human T cells. 8. Suppressor factor of Claim 6 as produced by human B cells. 9. Suppressor factor of Claim 1 which suppresses cellu lar proliferative response. 10. Suppressor factor of Claim 9 which suppresses T cell proliferative response. 11. Suppressor factor of Claim 9 which suppresses B cell proliferative response. 12. Suppressor factor of Claim 9 which suppresses cellu lar proliferative response driven by alloantigens, antigens and mitogens selected from the group con sisting of PWM, Cdn A, PHA, and mixtures thereof. 13. Suppressor factor of Claim 1 which suppresses anti body synthesis and secretion. 14. Suppressor factor of Claim 1 which inhibits prolife rative response of human peripheral blood mononucle ar leukocytes to allogeneic cells in mixed lympho cyte cultures. 15. Suppressor factor of Claim 1 which inhibits the prolifEration of human tumor cell lines. 16. Supressor factor of Claim 1 which inhibits antibody production in vitro by human peripheral biood mono nuclear leukocytes exposed to PWM. 17. Suppressor factor of Claim 1 which does not affect the viability of human peripheral blood mononuclear leukocytes in culture. 18. Suppressor factor of Claim 1 which does not affect natural killer cytotoxicity against K 562 targets. 19. Suppressor factor of Claim 1 which does not cause lysis of K 562 leikemic cell targets as determined by the chromium release assay. 20. Method for characterization of a suppressqr factor which comprises exposing mitogen treated human peri pheral blood mononuclear leukocyte specimens to a hematopoietic cell specimen and observing the cellu lar proliferative response or lack thereof of any of Claims 9 19. 21. Method of Claim 20 wherein the mitogen is selected from the class consisting of CON A, PWM, PHA and mixtures thereof. 22. Human suppressor factor of claim 1 for treatment of leukemia by exposing leukemic cells in vitro or in vTvo to effective amounts of SF. 23. Human suppressor factor of claim 1 for treating or preventing graft versus host disease. 24. Human suppressor factor of claim 1 for the treatment of human malignancy. 26. Human suppressor factor of claim 1 for the treatment of transplantation disorders. 27. Human suppressor factor of claim 1 for the treatment of auto immune disease selcted from the group con sisting of Rheumatoid Arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, myasthemia gravis and multiple sclerosis and allergies. 25. Human suppressor factor of claim 1 for the treatment of human lymphoma or leukemia.

## Description
Human Suppressor Factors and MethodThis invention relates to factor s which suppress cellular proliferation and antibody production and would be useful to control disorders such as those involving abnormal cellular proliferation. DescriptionFactor s has been identified which suppress not only mitogen or antigen alloantigen driven cellular proliferation of human peripheral blood leukocytes but also antibody production.Such factor s have potential use for example in the treatment of patients with cancer, graft versus host disease s , autoimmune disease s and lympho proliferative malignancy disorder s such as leukemia.Previous suppressor factors have been reported in the literature See Grillot Courvalin, Caterine et al., 1981 Nature 292 844 Greene, Warner C., et ar. 1982 J. Immunol. 129 1986 M. J. Taussig, et al. 1979 Nature 211 at 305 and 308 Sirkka Kontianen, et al. 1978 Nature 274 477 Eisenthal, A., et al. 1979 AnnN. Y. Acad. Sci. 322 367 Smit, R. T., et al. 1970 Am.J. Pathol. 60 .495 Namba, Y., et al. 1975 Inflammation 1 5 Lee, S. C., et al. 1977 J. Immunol. 118 88 Jegosothy, B. V., et al. 1979 J Exp. Med. 150 622 Namba, Y., t al. 1977 J. Immunol. 118 1379 Jegosathy, B. Vr, et al. 1976 193 1260 and Waksman,B. H., et al. 1978 Cell Immunol. 36 1801. The suppressor factor s described in the invention are different from all these factors because they a exhibit different functional properties, 2 exhibit different molecular weight 3 are produced constitutively and in substantially higher quantities.Factor s are described and identified in this invention, which inhibit leukocyte proliferative responses.In particular these factor s , supressor factor SF , have been found to be produced by hematopoietic cells such as human lymphoblastoid cell lines especially T cell lines and others such as B cell lines or erythroleukemic cell lines. Particular T cell lines known to produce supressor factors s are Jurkat, HPB ALL, TALL1, HD MAR, SKW 3, DND 41, HPB MLT and MOLT 4. Erytholeukemic cell lines such as K 562 can also produce SF. B cell lines such as CESS can also produce SF.Supernatants from such cells inhibit the proliferative responses of T lymphocytes to mitogens such as phytohaemagluttinin PHA , concanavalin A CON A and pokeweed mitogen PWM . Tables I III It also inhibits the proliferative responses of T cells to allogeneic cells in mixed lymphocyte culture MLC . Table IV Also this factor s inhibits antibody production of blood cells, and expecially in vitro by human peripheral blood mononuclear leukocytes in the PWM driven system Table V . SF may inhibit certain proliferative respon ses of B cells.The action of SF Appears to be cytostatic not cytotoxic since it 1. does not affect the viability of human peripheral blood mononuclear leukocytes in culture after a four day incubation Table VI 2. Does not cause lysis of K562 leukemic cell targets which can be determined by such assays as the chromium release assay andThis factors does not affect natural killer NK cell cytotoxicity against R 562 targets Table VII Also this factor inhibits the growth in vitro of cells from certain human tumor cell lines lung, colon, etc. Table VIII .These SF s exhibit a relative molecular weight in the range of 55 70,000, as determined by AcA 44 gel filtration.Table I III shows the inhibitory effect of SF on the peripheral blood mononuclear leukocyte proliferative response to mitogens CON A, PWM and PHA. In these examples SF is produced by Jurkat, Molt 4, K 562 andHPB ALL cells as well as other cell lines. In addition, hematopoietic cell hybridomas produce SF. Cess B cell line generally is positive for SF.The examples illustrated in the tables are for illustrative purposes only and are not meant to limit the invention to the examples shown. It is noted that the invention is not limited to one single suppressor factor but it is believed that SF may be more than one molecule or molecular form or, differert cell lines produce different suppressor factors exhibiting similar or partially similar properties.SF can be useful in treating or preventing graft versus host disease, also in patients who have received heterologous or autologous transplants whether of bone marrow, kidney, heart et al. Also it would be useful in treating autoimmune disease such as systemic lupus erythematosus, myasthenia Gravis, Rheumatoid Arthritis, multiple Sclerosis and Allergies. SF has applications in the treatment of lympho proliferative disorders such as leukemia as well as in the treatment of other malignancies, including human solid tumors such as lung, colon etc.Isolation of Peripheral Blood Hononuclear Leukocates Depletion of Monocytes Nononuclear cells from normal donors were isolated by centrifugation on a Ficoll Hypaque density cushion Boyum, A. 1968 Scand. J. Clin. lab.Invest. 23 Suppl. 97 77 , at room temperature. The cells were washed three times in Hank s balanced salt solution HBSS and resuspended in RPMI 1640 containing 15 t heat inactivated fetal calf serum at a concentration of 6 4 x 10 cells ml. Lymphocyte separator reagent Technicon Instrument Co., Tarrytown, NY was added to the mononuclear cell suspension at a volume ratio of 1 2 0 and the mixture was incubated at 37 C on a rotator for 30 min.Phagocytio cells were depleted by subsequent centrifugation at 400 x g for 20 min on a ficoll hypaque density cushion. Lymphoid cells depleted of phagocytic cells were collected from the interface, washed three time with Hank s balanced salt solution HBSS and re 6 suspended at 4 x 10 cellsZml. Preparation of T lymphocytesT lymphocytes were prepared by rosetting with neuraminidase treated sheep erythrocytes SRBC 25 Units ml of 5 SRBC followed by centrifugation on ficoll Hypaque as previously described Platsoucas et al. 1980 J.Immunol. 125 61216 . Two milliliter aliquots of lympho 6 cytes 4 x 10 ml in HBSS were mixed with 0.5 ml of heat inactivated and SRBC absorbed fetal calf serum and 2 ml of 1 neuraminidase treated SRBC. The mixture was o incubated for 5 min at 37 , centrifuged for 5 min at 200X G, and incubated at 4 C for an additional hour. The rosettes were resuspended carefully and incubated on ice for an additional 15 min. The cell suspensions were layered on a Ficoll Hypaque density cushion and centrifuged at 400 x G for 20 min at controlled temperature 0 22 C . Non T cells were recovered from the interface and were washed three times with HBSS. Rosetting T cells were recovered from the pellets after lysis of attachedSRBC by Tris buffered 0.83 ammonium cloride pH 7.2 . The T cells were washed three times with HBSS. E rosetting cells prepared by this method were more than 95 T lymphocytes, as determined by rerosetting with SRBC without nonspecific esterase positive cells and less than 2 immunoglobulin bearing cells. E rosette negative cells contained more than 70 surface immunoglobulin cells, as determined by immunofluorescence, and less than 1 of E rosette forming cells or non specific esterase positive cells. These cells were used as B cells. B cells are used for B cell growth factor assay.Proliferative Response to MitogensHuman peripheral blood mononuclear leukocytes at a concentration of 1 x 10 cells ml were cultured inRPMI 1640 containing 10 fetal calf serum and supple mented with 25 mM Bepe, mM L glutamine and 100 units mI Penicillin and 100 micrograms mi streptomycin.One hundred microliters of the cell suspension were stimulated on U microliter plates Scientific Products by various concentration of mitugens PHA P, Con A, PWM 0 at 37 C in a humidified incubator in a 5 CO , 95 air environment. The cultures were pulsed with 25vmicro liters of tritiated thymidine specific activity, 6.7Ci mmol, New England Nuclear, Boston, MA after 72 hours and harvested using an automatic cell harvester 24 hours after the addition of the isotopes.Mixed Lymphocyte CultureHuman peripheral blood mononuclear leukocytes from various donors were prepared as above. 5 5Responding cells 1 x 10 were cultured with 1 x 10 stimulating cells in round bottom microtiter plates in total volume of 0.2 ml. The stimulating cells were inactivated by x irradiation 2000 rads . The culture medium is RPMI 1640 supplemented with 10 fetal calf serum, 25 mM Hepes, 2 mM L glutamine, penicillin 100 units ml and streptomycin 100 microgram ml . The cul 0 tures were incubated at 37 C in a humidified atmosphere 2 with 5 CO , pulsed the 5th day with 1 micro Ci well of 3 H thymidine New England Nuclear, Boston, MA, specific activity 6.7 Ci mmole and harvested 24 hours later on an automatic cell harvester Skarton, Norway . All cultures were performed in quadruplicate.Nateral Killer CytotoxicityNatural killer cytotoxicity was determined as previously described platsoucas, et al. 1980 J. Immunol. 125 1216 . Target cells of the K562 and Molt 4 lines, maintained in RPMI 1640 supplemented with 10 fetal calf serum, glutamine and antibiotics as above were labelled 51 6 with 300 microliters of Cr per 2 x 10 cells sodium Cr cromate, New England Nuclear, Boston, MA for 2 hours. The target cells were washed three times and then resuspended in the same medium, at a concentration of 5 4 x 10 cells ml.Effector lymphocytes were washed three times in RPMI 1640 supplemented with 10 fetal calf serum, arranged at the appropriate concentration and one hundred microliters were added to one hundred microliters of target cells in U bottom microtiter plates Nunclon, Denmark , to achieve effector to target ratios 100 1, 50 1, and 25 1 etc. The plates were centrifuged at 40 x g for 2 min and subsequently incubated at o 37 C in a humidified 5 CO atmosphere. After 4 hours, 2 the plates were centrifuged at 500 x g for 5 min and 100 microliters of the supernatants were collected and coun 51 ted for Cr release in a well type Auto Gamma scintil lation counter.Percent specific lysis is calculated by the formula E S Specific lysis x 100 T S were E mean cpm released in the presence of effector cells. S mean cpm spontaneously released by target cells incubated with medium alone, and T mean cpm released after treating target cells with Triton x 100 1 100 dilution .Cell ViabilityPeripheral blood mononuclear leukocytes MNL were cul tured at a concentration of 1 x 106 cells ml in RPMI 1640 supplemented with 10 heat inactivated FCS, 25 mM herpes buffer, 2mM L glutamine, and the antibiotics streptomycin 100 micrograms ml and Pennicillin 100 U ml for up to 88 hrs.Control samples were incubated in the above medium and test samples are incubated with SF produced by Jurkat et al cell lines. Samples were withdrawn at 20 hrs, 44 hr, 68 hrs and 88 hrs. Cells were washed 2 x and viability was determined by Trypan blue dye exclusion.Origin of cellsCell lines used in the specification were established cell lines from patients with various leukemias.M. W, determinations These were carried out by AcA 44 ultrogel LKB filtration in isotonic phosphate buffered saline PBS . Molekular weight markers employed involved Bovine serum albumin 68,000 M.W. Ovalbumin 43,000 M.W. Cytochrome c 11,700 M.W. Induction of de novo Ig synthesis and secretion by human peripheral blood mononuclear leukocytes in the PWM induced differentiation system Human peripheral blood mononuclear leukocytes were cul 6 tured at 1 x 10 cells ml in RPMI 1640 supplemented with 10 heat inactivated fetal calf serum, 2mM glutamine, Hepes and antibiotics as previously described, in total 0 volume of 2 ml, for 7 days at 37 C in 5 CO in a 2 humidified incubator. Pokeweed mitogen 10 microgram ml , optimal concentration Grand Island BiologicalCo., Grand Island, NY was added from the beginning of the culture. After incubation for 7 days the tube were centrifuged at 400 x g and supernatants were carefully o withdrawn and stored at 20 C until assayed for immunoglobulin.Determination of De Novo IgG IgA IgM Immunoglobulins by Enzyme linked Immunoabsorbent Assay ELISA These determinations were carried out by a modification of the method described by Engvall and Perlmann J.Immunol. 109 129 1972 . Rabbit anti human immunoglobulin antibody, heavy chain specific mu, gamma or alpha Accurate Chemical were arranged at a concentration of 5 g ml in 0.10 M Na CO , pH 9.6, containing 0.05 sodium azide. Two hundred microliters of antibody solution per well were transferred into 96 well round bottom micro 0 liter plates and incubated at 37 C for 3 hours. The 0 plates were stored at 4 C until use and were stable for over two weeks. Bevore use the plates were washed withPBS containing 0.02 . Tween 20 three times, were allowed to remain at room temperature for 5 min, between washings. Several dilutions of the unknown immunoglobulin containing supernatants were prepared in PBS containing 0.02 Tween 20 and volumes of 0.2 ml will be transferred to the plates. The plates were incubated for 5 hours at room temperature, on a rocket platform.Supernatants were removed by aspiration and the tubes were washed three times with PBS, containing 0.02 Tween 20. Alkaline phosphatase conjugated rabbit antihuman immunoglobulin antibody heavy chain specific was obtained from AMF Immunoveagents Inc., Sequin, TX gamma mu , or alpha heavy chain specific . Before use the conjugates were absorbed with 1 8 ovalbumin solution in phosphate buffered saline 1 hour at room temperature , to absorb extra gluteraldhyde. One ml of conjugate diluted 1 500 with PBS Tween 20, was added to the antihuman Ig human Ig coated tubes, and the tubes were incubated for 16 hours at room temperature. Subsequently, the unbound conjugate was removed by washing the plates three times with PBS Tween 20.The amount of bound alkaline phosphatase rabbit anti human heavy chain specific, was determined using p nitrophenylphosphate NPP Sigma as a substrate. One ml of 1 mg 1 NPP, in 3 0.05 M sodium carbonate buffer pH 9.8 containing 10 M MgC1 was added to the plates and the released p 2 nitrophenolate was measured at 405 nm after one hour, using a titertek ELISA reader. Standard curves were constructed using purified IgG, IgA or IgM immunoglobulins for polyclonal immunoglobulin secretion, or purified paraproteins from patients with multiple myeloma for the determination of idiotypic immunoglobulin secretion. PBS phosphate buffered salineInhibition of the growth of human tumor cell lines by supernatants containing the SF Cells from human tumor lung lines were arranged at a 4 concentration of 5 x 10 cells ml, in Minimal Essential Medium supplemented with 10 heat inactivated fetal calf serum, 2 mM L glutamine and antibiotics streptomycin 100 microgram ml and penicillin 100 U ml. One ml of cell suspension was transferred to 24 well plates.Cultures were set up in triplicate. After the cells were attached, supernatants containing SF s were added.After 60 and 90 hours in culture, the cells were detached with EDTA final concentration 0.2 8 and counted. TABLE IA Inhibition of proliferative response of peripheral blood mononuclear leukocytes to PHA, by SF produced by the Jurkat, APB A11 and Molt 4 lines PROLIFERATIVE RESPONSE CPM SP v v Jurkat BPS A11 Molt 4 CPM suppre CPM suppre CPM suppre ssion ssion ssion medium 513 175 513 175 513 175 medium PHA 11058 1883 11058 883 11058 1883 medium PHA 2351 223 79 6318 1689 43 2399 330 78 0.015 SF medium PHA 2612 337 76 2199 1792 35 1118 28 89 0.05 SF medium PHA 2861 269 74 8900 RTI ID 11.14 2172 20 998 105 91 0.1 SF medium PHA 4404 390 60 1778 111 84 1333 328 88 0.5 SF medium PHA 3921 277 65 1419 234 87 1127 77 89 0.95 SF medium PHA 4156 256 62 1564 156 86 1130 138 89 1.9 SF medium PHA 4426 354 60 2186 265 80 1240 82 89 3.75 SF medium PHA 2512 302 60 2336 319 79 985 36 91 15 SF medium PHA 3538 571 68 2685 RTI ID 11.32 236 76 728 57 93 30 SF TABLE IB Inhibition of proliferation response of peripitastel blood mononuclear leucocytes to PHA, be SF produced by the F362, HPB A11, Molt 4 and CBBS tumor cell lines PROLIFERATIVE RESPONSE CPM SP v v K562 Molt 4 Cels HPB LL CPM suppre CPM suppre CPM suppre CPM suppre ssion ssion ssion ssion medium 1279 14 2279 14 2279 14 2279 14 medium PHA 56211 3811 56211 3811 56211 3811 56211 3811 medium PHA 1624 88 97 1499 248 97 48729 4699 13 8124 399 86 287 SF medium PHA 1515 190 97 1287 130 98 51048 6139 9 8109 816 86 3.75 SF medium PHA 2091 942 96 1249 132 98 53579 3152 5 6687 773 68 7.5 SF medium PHA 1536 119 97 1225 143 98 59898 5211 6 7916 1116 86 15 SF medium PHA 2009 254 96 865 101 98 31823 1550 43 5434 777 90 0.95 SF TABLE 1C Inhibition of proliferative response of human peripheral blood mononuclear leukocytes to PHA, by SF produced by TALL 1, HD Hor, SFW 3, IND 41 nad HPB MLF Cell lineSuperostant CPM Suppression MNC None 4677 1367 MNC PHA None 93646 9369MNC PHA TALL 1 18119 3822 81MNC PHA HD Mar 9914 1182 69MNC PHA SKW 3 9268 434 90MNC PHA IND 41 28633 3356 69MNC PHA HPB MLF 12136 342 87 MNC, Human, peripheral blood mononuclear leukocytes. Cell line supernatenats were employed at conncetration of 25 v v . TABLE II Inhibition of proliferative response of human peripheral blood mononuclear leukocytes to CON A, by SF produced by the Jurket, HPB A11 and Molt 4 lines PROLIFERATIVE RESPONSE CPM SP v v Jurket BPS A11 Molt 4 CPM suppre CPM suppre CPM suppression ssion ssion medium 265 i 47 265 t 47 265 f 47 medium CON A 80792 7959 40792 7454 40792 7474 medium CON A 3916 239 98 61751 13610 14440 6966 65 0.015 SF medium CON A 3606 379 91 31713 11104 22 4814 580 88 0.05 SF medium cos A 3889 413 90 12399 t 2129 69t 4126 f 681 RTI ID 14.12 90t 0.1 SF medium CON A 4489 649 89 6414 1356 94 3233 688 92 0.5 SF medium CON A 3671 294 91 3896 1055 90 2718 910 93 0.95 SF medium CON A 3615 211 91 3678 765 91 2244 446 94 1.9 SF medium CON A 3649 350 91 3879 734 90 26622 401 93 3.75 SF medium COM A 3605 191 911 3421 t 404 928 1729 t 108 96 15 SF medium CON A 3862 381 91 3637 296 91 855 48 90 30 SF TABLE III Inhibition of proliferative response of peripheral blood mononuclear leukocytes to PWM by SF prodeced by the Jurkat trror cell line PROLIFERATIVE RESPONSE CPM SF v v Jurkat CPM suppre ssionMedium 703 84 Medium PWM 13119 1792 Medium PWM 4631 389 65 1.56 SFMedium PWM 4560 373 65 3.12 SFMedium PWM 3624 381 72 6.25 SFMedium PWM 4474 306 66 12.5 SFMedium PWM 5095 f 352 618 258 SF TABLE IV Inhibition by SF produced by the Jurkat tumor cell RTI ID 16.1 lines, of the proliferative responses of human peripheral blood mononuclear leukocytes to allogeneic cells in mixed lymphocyte culture PROLIFERATIVE RESPONSE CPM t SF v v Jurkat CPM suppre ssionMedium 7382 Medium 1.561 SF 3849 48t Medium 3.12 SF 3229 56 Medium 6.25 SF 3922 47 Medium 12.50t SF 3678 50 Medium 25.00 SF 6159 17 TABLE V Inhibition of de novo immunoglobulin synthesis and secretion of human peripheral blood mononuclear leukocytes in the PWM induced differentiation systn, by SF produced by the Jurket, MPS ALLy Molt 4, W562 and CBSS CELL LINES, Cell line Imunoglobulin Superanatants Dilutions IgM micro dI IgA microg d1 IgG microg D1 Mononuclear cells PWM Mods 243.0 70.5 84.3 JurkatMNC PMW 1 3 19.0 l.t. 2.0 l.t. 2.0MNC PWM 1.50 20.5 1.t. 2.0 NO MZ P 1 1000 15.0 3.75 NDMNC PWM 1 10000 19.0 4.5 ND HPB ALLMNC PWM 1 3 10.5 l.t. 2.0 l.t. 2.0MNC PWM 1 50 35.0 5.7 l.t. 2.0MNC PWM 1 1000 27.3 11.3 l.t. 2.0MNC PWM 1 3000 22.3 13.0 1.t.2.0 Molt 4MNC PWM 1 3 23.5 1.t.2.0 NOMNC PWM 1 50 36.7 14.3 1.t.2.0MNC PWM 1 1000 35.7 16.0 1.t.2.0 X562 MNC PWM 1 3 9.9 1.t.2.0 NOMNC PWM 1 50 17.3 1.t.20. 1.t.2.0MNC PWM 1 1000 18.3 9.0 ND CESSMNC PWM 1 3 12.2 l.t. 2.0 10.3MNC PWM 1 50 18.0 l.t. 2.0 NDMNC PWM 1 1000 18.3 11.2 ND determined by ELISA NO not determined l.t. less than TABLE VI The viability of peripheral blood mononuclear leukocytes is not affected by prolonged incubation with SF produced by the Jurket tumor cell linesTumor cell lines t Viability Duration of treatment 20 hrs 44 hrs 68 hrs 88 hrs Medium alone 98 100 96 93 Jurket 99 96 95 90 This effect is also seen with HPB ALL, 1562 and Molt 4 supernatants. VII Suppressor factor s preparations produced by the Jurkat cell lines do not affect natural killer cytotoxicity medisted by peripheral blood mononuclear leukocytes, against Ä562 targetSF Source Cytotoxicity Effector to target ratio Donor 1 Donor 2 50 1 25 1 50 1 25 1 Jurket 66 59 59 50 Jurkat 68 56 51 40 TABLE VIII Inhibition of the growth of human lung tumor cell lines by SF containing supernatants form the Jurkat, HPB ALL, K562 and Holt 4 human tumor cell lines Cell numbers LinesCell line SK IC 6 SN IC 14 Hours of Hours ofSupernatants Treatment Treatment 0 60 90 0 60 90None 0.5 x 105 1.4 x 105 5.7 x 105 0.5 x 105 1.7 x 105 4.2 x 105Jurkat 0.5 x 105 0.6 x 105 1.5 x 105 0.5 x 105 1.4 x 105 1.9 x 105HPB All 0.5 x 105 1.1 x 105 1.4 x 105 0.5 x 105 2.1 x 105 3.0 x 105K562 0.5 x 105 0.6 x 105 1.7 x 105 0.5 x 105 0.7 x 105 2.0 x 105Molt 4 0.5 x 105 0.7 x 105 2.7 x 105 ND These were used at a dilution of 30 v v .