# Liquid prism

## Claims
Flüssigkeitsprisma mit

## Description
This invention relates to a liquid prism to be used for measurement, and more particularly to a liquid prism to be used for an apparatus in which an angle of inclination is measured based on the direction of gravity. Heretofore, there is known JP A 58 99 712 a liquid prism to be used for an inclination measuring apparatus in which a liquid such as silicon oil is sealed in a liquid container in order to always provide a free liquid surface perpendicular to the direction of gravity, irrespective of the inclination of the apparatus. There are two types of inclination measuring apparatuses one is a reflection type of inclination measuring apparatus in which light is caused to enter in the liquid prism and then the deflection angle of light totally reflected on and radiated from the free surface of the liquid is measured, and the other is a transmission type of inclination measuring apparatus in which light is entered in the liquid prism and then the transmission deflection angle of light transmitted through the free surface of the liquid is measured. However, when these two types of apparatuses are used for measurement, there often arises such a problem as that when the outside temperature is suddenly changed, the reflection light or transmission light is disordered for a long time, and the measurement either cannot be made at all, or cannot be made accurately during that time. However, the cause for the foregoing has not sufficiently been made clear, and this problem was considered to be attributable to a defect of the liquid prism. After a careful study, the present inventor s has have found out that according to the conventional liquid prism, when a sudden change in temperature has taken place, a temperature difference is produced between a portion of the liquid contacting the liquid container and a portion of the liquid in the center thereof, which makes a convection of the liquid happen, and as a result, the smoothness of the free liquid surface is deteriorated for a long time. That is, when the outside temperature is dropped abruptly, the temperature of the liquid around the area contacting the container becomes lower than that of the liquid around the central area of the container. Also, the gravity of the former becomes larger than that of the latter. Accordingly, a convection is happened wherein the liquid is ascended at its central portion and descended at its wall surface portion. The result is that the free liquid surface is not stable which causes the disorder of the light reflected on or transmitted through the surface. Similarly, when the temperature is suddenly raised, a reverse convection is happened thus producing the similar phenomenon as just described. This invention was accomplished in order to overcome the above mentioned problem. It is therefore an object of the invention to provide a liquid prism which is not susceptible to the deficiencies of the prior art. Specifically, the present invention provides a liquid prism, with which a stable measurement can be performed even under such an unfavorable condition where the outside temperature is suddenly changed. The above object, is achieved by the liquid prism defined in claim 1. By employing the good thermal conductive material disposed under the free surface of the liquid the material will not interfere with the free liquid surface, even when the container is inclined at angles within the range of measurement. The projections allow a better temperature distribution, preventing a big convection and damping motion of the liquid. Other objects, novel features and advantages of the present invention will be made apparent from the following detailed description of a preferred embodiment of the invention. In the drawings Preferred embodiments of the present invention will be described hereunder with reference to the accompanying drawings wherein like numerals designate corresponding elements in the several figures. Figs. 1 through 6 illustrate one embodiment of a liquid prism according to the present invention. In the figures, 10 denotes, for example, a silicon oil with a refractive index of 1.4, which is sealed in a liquid container 20. The container 20 comprises a bottom surface portion 21 formed at at least a part thereof of a light transmitting material and a cap portion 22. In this embodiment, the entirety of the bottom surface portion 21 is formed as a glass prism having a refractive index of 1.52. If selection is required from other materials than glass, the light transmitting material may be selected from a resin material. The configuration thereof is not necessarily of a prism shape as shown in the figures. The bottom surface portion 21 includes a transmitting surface 21a and a reflecting surface 21b perpendicularly intersecting with respect to each other. Within the container 20 with the above structure, the liquid 10 and the good thermal conductive material 30 are sealed. The good thermal conductive material 30 is placed deep enough under a free liquid surface 11 of the liquid 10 so that the material 30 does not affect the free surface 11 even if the former is inclined at angles within the range of measurement. The good thermal conductive material 30 is better than the liquid 10 in a thermal conductivity, and made of a good thermal conductive metallic material such as, for example, copper and aluminum. The good thermal conductive material 30 is formed in a generally rectangular prism configuration, having an opening 31 in at least a part thereof, for example, a central portion, for permitting the light from the bottom surface portion 21 of the liquid container 20 to transmit therethrough. Modified embodiments of the good thermal conductive material 30 are illustrated in Figs. 3 through 7, wherein an irregular portion is formed at the side thereof facing toward the free liquid surface 11. More specifically, in Fig. 3 and Fig. 4, a first modified embodiment is shown, wherein a plurality of projections 32 are arranged in parallel relative to each other along its one side, but excepting the area where the opening 31 is formed. According to a second modification as shown in Fig. 5 and Fig. 6, continuous projections are formed even on the opening 31. With regard to a third modification as shown in Fig. 7, additional projections are formed in the intersecting direction with respect to the second modification, thus forming a check pattern. The good thermal conductive material 30 may be of a combination of small projections, or otherwise of a rigid structure together with the cap portion 22. Furthermore, each of the projections 32 is not necessarily of a continuous structure. Instead, it may be formed in a discontinuous structure. Furthermore, the irregular portion is not necessarily of such projections as extending horizontally. Instead, they may take desired shapes projecting from desired places. One example of an optical system wherein a liquid prism having such a structure as described is applied to, for example, a reflection type of inclination measuring apparatus, is shown in Fig. 1. The light from an illumination element 41 is condensed through a condenser lens 42 in order to illuminate a test chart 43. The test chart 43 is placed in a focal position of a collimate lens 44 displaced in the normal direction with respect to the paper surface. The bundle of rays from the test chart 43 is formed in parallel of the bundle of rays by the collimate lens 44 through a reflecting mirror 45, and entered in the liquid prism. That is, the bundle of rays enters into a transmitting surface 21a of the bottom surface portion 21 as a prism of this liquid prism. The bundle of rays entered through the transmitting surface 21a is progressed in the liquid of silicon oil inside of the opening 31 formed in the good thermal conductive material 30, totally reflected on the free liquid surface 11, then reflected on a reflecting surface 21b of the bottom surface portion 21, totally reflected again on the free liquid surface 11, and finally radiated from the transmitting surface 21a. The bundle of rays radiated from the transmitting surface 21a is condensed by the collimate lens 44 to form a test chart image on a CCD detector a storage type sensor . With the above constitution of the apparatus, when the inclination angle of the apparatus is deemed as ϑ, the travelling amount of the test chart image on the CCD detector 46 as l, the focal distance of the collimate lens 44 as f, and the coefficient of the inclination as k, the following relation is obtained When the angle for entering into the free liquid surface is deemed as 50 , the refractive index of the prism as 1.52, the refractive index of the silicon oil as 1.4, a relation of k 1 4.88 is obtained. Thus, the inclination ϑ can be obtained from the detected shifting amount I. The test chart and detector can be selected in various manners. One such example is that the test chart is constituted with a slit and the detector is constituted with a one dimensional line sensor. When an inclination measuring apparatus with the above mentioned constitution is given an abrupt change of temperature, the abrupt change of the temperature is naturally applied to the liquid prism, too. The heat is transmitted to the liquid 10 through the liquid container 20, and more specifically through the cap portion 22 as well as the bottom surface portion 21 as a prism. During the process, since the good thermal conductive material 30 is superior in thermal conductivity to the liquid 10, it transmits the heat to its portion contacting the liquid 10 very quickly as soon as it receives the heat from the liquid container 20. Accordingly, since the liquid 10 receives the heat not only from the liquid container 20 as in the case with the prior art, but also from the good thermal conductive material 30 extending so far as to the central portion of the liquid 10, a heat exchange is performed in a wide range by means of the good thermal conductive material 30, thereby quickly averaging the temperature. Because of the foregoing, the convectional phenomenon is not happened at all, or if happened, only in a small degree and in a short time. Accordingly, the free liquid surface 11 is not disturbed at all, or if disturbed, the deterioration of the smoothness of the free liquid surface 11 can be recovered to its initial state in a short time. Thus, a stable measurement can be obtained. In the case a plurality of projections 32 as an irregular portion are provided as seen in the first modification, the contacting area thereof with the liquid 10 becomes comparatively large which makes the heat change area large. Thus, the temperature can be more effectively averaged. Furthermore, the projections 32 as an irregular portion interfere the convectional phenomenon about the central portion of the liquid along the inner wall of the liquid container 20. Thus, the free liquid surface 11 is not much disturbed. Moreover, even a shock is applied from outside, the liquid 10 is not moved much, since the projections 32 serve as if to partition the liquid 10. Thus, the shock applied thereto is absorbed and weakened. Contrary to the preceding two examples, according to the second modification, the projections 32 are also formed on the opening 31. This means that the heat exchange area is increased in a portion where the liquid 10 is much, and that more means for preventing the movement of the liquid 10 is provided. Thus, the free liquid surface is even more stabilized. In this case, since the opening 31 permitting the light to be transmitted therethrough is partly blocked, the bundle of rays is partly prevented to pass therethrough and the quantity of light is descended. However, since the bundle of rays is projected in the parallel form, no adverse affection is substantially arised. Furthermore, according to the third modified embodiment, since the projections 32 are provided in not only one direction, but also in another direction intersecting therewith thus forming a check pattern, the free liquid surface is even more stabilized than the second modification. Although the invention is applied to a reflecting type of liquid prism in the above embodiments, it may of course be applied to a transmitting type of liquid prism with similar effects as mentioned. As described in the foregoing, according to the present invention, due to the rapid transmission of the heat by means of a good thermal conductive material disposed under the free liquid surface and the increase of the heat exchange area, the temperature of each portion of the liquid can be rapidly averaged. Accordingly, even when the outside temperature is suddenly changed, no convectional phenomenon is generated in the liquid. Thus, the free liquid surface is not disturbed. Since the free liquid surface is held stationary, or can be returned to its stationary state in a comparatively short time, the reflecting light or transmitting light is not disturbed. Thus, a stable measurement can be obtained, even when the outside temperature is suddenly changed.