# PHASED ARRAY ACOUSTIC IMAGING SYSTEM

## Claims
Akustisches Bilderzeugungssystem mit einer Einrichtung zum wiederholten Senden einer akustischen Druckwelle in einen zu untersuchenden Körper, einer Anordnung von nebeneinander angeordneten Wandlern 0 127 zum Umsetzen des auf jedem von ihnen auftreffenden akustischen Echos in ein entsprechendes elektrisches Empfangssignal einer Mehrzahl von im wesentlichen identischen Kanälen 28, 30, 32, 48, 50, 52 zum Verarbeiten der von der Anordnung von Wandlern kommenden Empfangssignale einem Summierpunkt 86 zum Vereinigen der verarbeiteten Empfangssignale von je einem der Wandler der Anordnung für jede Abtastzeile einer Summierverzügerungsleitung 56 , die bewirkt, daß die an dem Summierpunkt 86 eintreffenden, verarbeiteten Empfangssignale von den einzelnen Wandlern einander zeitlich überlappen, wobei die Verzögerungsleitung eine Mehrzahl von Verzögerungszellen 58 aufweist, die in einer gewälten Reihenfolge die Summierverzögerungsleitung bilden und die je eine Verzögerungszellen Eingangssummiereinrichtung 70 besitzen, die für den Empfang eines Eingangssignals P

## Description
Recent improvements in the use of ultrasonic energy to illuminate the internal organs of the human body have included realtime imaging, which enables visualization of the motion of the organs, and gray scale imaging, which gives diagnostic information concerning the texture of the soft tissue in the body. More recently, ultrasonic imaging using arrays of transducers with appropriate control electronics has proven successful because of transducer reliability, flexibility and capability for steering and focusing ultrasonic energy, and has improved resolution over a certain depth of field, particularly near the transducer. Improvement beyond the present state of the art requires larger transducer arrays with more elements, but this requires correspondingly more circuitry. In order to produce such systems economically, innovations must be made in system architecture to permit flexible system operation which makes extensive use of symmetry to minimize dedicated hardware without sacrificing performance, consistent with high resolution imaging. An example of previous array technology is described in U.S. Patent No. 4,140,022 granted February 20, 1979 to Samuel H. Maslak and assigned to Hewlett Packard Company, where extensive use of tap selectors is illustrated. In the there described system, the number of analog switches required for tap selection depends upon the product of the number of input signals, which is equal to or proportional to the number of active transducer elements, and the number of taps in the summing delay line configuration. In order to improve the performance of such a system, by doubling the number of transducer elements, for example, the number of analog switches must increase by a factor of four to accommodate the longer delay line needed for the corresponding improvement in performance. These analog switches contribute substantially to system cost because they should be low noise, broad bandwidth components. It is, therefore, desirable to eliminate the need for tap selection completely. Furthermore, the foregoing patented system provides a sector scan but does not provide for linear scanning. Another example of the prior art, U.S. Patent No. 4,005,382 granted on January 25, 1977 to William L. Beaver and assigned to Varian Associates, does avoid tap selection. But the described system is unable to provide the non monotonic delay profiles required to achieve significant focusing of the ultrasonic wave at angles at or near the normal to the transucer. That patented architecture requires zero delay electrical connections among the outputs of adjacent delay elements, which creates severe technological difficulties in a high resolution imaging system with many simultaneously active transducer elements. That patented architecture also lacks the cyclical symmetry needed for a linear scanning format, wherein sequential acoustic lines are activated, each normal to the transducer but displaced by an amount along the tranducer array which might be equal to the transducer element to element spacing. The present invention provides an acoustic imaging system having the features stated in Claim 1. The principal object of this invention is to provide an acoustic imaging system with a very flexible architecture which can accommodate both a linear and a sector scanning format for an array of a very large number of active electromechanical transducer elements in an economical fashion. The basis of this architecture is a delay cell which contains an electronically variable delay element and which is dedicated to a receive signal derived from at least one transducer. The architecture comprises a cyclically continuous structure, so that each delay cell, including the end cells, have an adjacent cell to the right and to the left. The individual delay cells are configured to achieve a desired delay profile for each scan line under digital control. Each delay cell contains an electronically variable delay element, control electronics, summers, and solid state switches to sum selectively 1 the derived transducer receive signal with other signals input to the delay cell including 2 the output of the previous delay cell, and or 3 the output of the next delay cell, and or 4 the output from one arbitrary other delay cell. The output of each delay cell may be selectively routed to one of several different places, i.e., 1 to the input of the previous delay cell, or 2 to the input of the next delay cell, or it may be out selected for 3 video processing or 4 for in selection to the input of one selectable other delay cell. Such an architecture provides means to structure a summing delay line so as to achieve a non monotonic delay profile which is necessary for well focused acoustic lines especially when steered to within a few degrees, such as up to 15 or so, of normal to the face of the transducer in the sector scanning mode. In the linear scanning mode, such architecture provides means to generate an acoustic focus, upon reception, along parallel acoustic lines, all of which are at a fixed angle which might be normal to the transducer array, in such a way that even the acoustic lines centered near the last transducer of the array utilizes the entire summing delay line. This capability results from the cyclic symmetry of the delay cell architecture, and avoids the need to double the number of delay cells in order to achieve comparable performance. It is another object of this invention in combination with the delay cell architecture to include heterodyning or mixing of each transducer receive signal with one of a plurality of individually phased clocks prior to delay so as to achieve phase coherence with one or more other transducer receive signals processed in a similar way. This allows the set of delay cells to be coarsely quantized. It also is an object of this invention to sum such heterodyned and phase adjusted transducer receive signals in phase coherent triplets, quadruples or, in the preferred embodiment, in phase coherent pairs, prior to connection to delay. This achieves a substantial reduction in the number of delay cells required in a particular system. Another object of this invention is to provide means to dynamically vary the clock phase mixed with each receive signal at various times during reception in order to maintain phase coherence of all active receive channels to within some predetermined amount which might be less than 45 . It is also an object of this invention to dynamically update the amplitude weighting of the receive signal from each transducer, including a weighting of zero, at various times throughout reception in order to improve focusing and sidelobe performance. One other object of this invention is to include static amplitude weighting means, including a weighting of zero, for the linear scanning mode to generate acoustic scan lines up to and including one centered on the last transducer element in the array. Another object of this invention is to maintain an approximately constant ratio of focal range to size of active aperture throughout at least a portion of the field of view. It is also an object of this invention to provide an imaging system that operates in a sector mode only, or in a linear mode only, or in a combined linear sector mode. The objects and advantages will be apparent from a consideration of the following description of a preferred embodiment of the invention in connection with the accompanying drawings. Fig. 1 schematically illustrates the system architecture in a preferred embodiment that employs phase coherent or phased pairs of transducer signals. For each acoustic scan line the electromechanical transducer array launches an acoustic pressure wave which is electronically steered and focused. Transducers 10, 10 of one phased pair are activated by a drive pulse from their associated transmit drivers 20, 20 which have been amplitude weighted by values stored in transmit apodization memory 22. The radial direction of a transmitted acoustic pressure wave from the array for sector scanning is determined by the relative times at which each transducer of the array is pulsed. A signal which has appropriate time delay is generated in the transmit delay cell 24. These time delay values, one for each active transducer element, which cause the transmitted acoustic beam to be steered and focused, are stored in transmit delay memory 26. The time delayed signal generated in each transmit delay cell is supplied to each transmit driver 20, which then activates each transducer element 10. Transducers 10, 10 are two adjacent ones of a planar array of one hundred twenty eight identical electromechanical transducers, for example numbered 0 through 127 as shown. At the completion of transmission of an acoustic wave each transducer 0 through 127, such as phased pair 10, 10 begins to receive acoustic echoes from specular and Rayleigh reflectors in the body. Each transducer converts the received acoustic echo into an electric receive signal which is processed in a separate receive channel dedicated to each transducer including, for the phased pair 10, 10 , protection circuit 28, 28 to isolate the channel from transmit pulses, a variable gain amplifier 30, 30 and a receive apodization amplifier 32, 32 which amplitude weights each receive signal to values stored in receive apodization memory 40. Scanner gain driver 34 in accord with values stored in gain control memory 36 supplies dynamically up dated bias and gain signals to variable gain amplifier 30, 30 . Amplitude weighting is independently selected for each channel by receive apodizers 38 connected to apodizer amplifiers 32, 32 in accord with values stored in receive apodization memory 40. The weighting may be dynamically changed during reception. The receive apodizer amplifier output, which has most of its energy near its associated transducer center frequency, may be mixed in mixer 42, 42 with one of a plurality of individually phased clock signals, such as cos ω The several memories are accessed and values updated dynamically by digital control means 54 which may include a microprocessor. The dynamic phase shifting signal processing in a dedicated channel for each transducer is of the type more fully described in U.S. Patent No. 4,140,022. However, instead of using the there described tap selector and tapped master delay line, the present invention constructs a summing delay line 56 from a set of symmetrical delay cells 58, one for each phased intermediate frequency signal, such as 52, derived from a phased pair or other grouping of transducers in their corresponding receive signal processing channels. The phased intermediate frequency signals may also be derived from phase coherent transducer triplets or quadruples in order to allow the delay cells to be more coarsely quantized and to further reduce the number of delay cells necessary for a particular system. Alternatively, the phased intermediate frequency signals may be derived from phase coherent transducer singlets to allow more finely quantized delay cells at the expense of an increased number of delay cells. Each delay cell 58 includes an input summing means such as summing amplifier 70 for adding phased intermediate frequency signal 52, P The other delay cell inputs to summing amplifier 70 of delay cell 58₀, in addition to 1 the phased intermediate frequency signal 52, P Each delay cell 58 has three selectable output paths depending upon the position of electronic delay cell output switch means 76. The selectable outputs of delay cell 58₀ are A In the preferred embodiment, eight outselect summing amplifiers 78 are employed. The OUTSEL outputs of eight adjacent delay cells are connected to the input of one outselect summing amplifier 78. The output of each outselect summing amplifier is independently routed by its associated distribution switch 80, to one of 1 the IF summing amplifier 86 2 the INSELECT summing amplifier 82, or 3 is decoupled from the signal path at 90. As the several intermediate frequency signals P There is cyclical symmetry at the ends of the summing delay line 56. Input A The summing delay line 56 configuration, under several representative conditions, is illustrated graphically in Figs. 2a, 3a, 3c, 4a and 5a. Each graphically shows a particular delay profile, where the vertical axis corresponds to relative delay and the horizontal axis corresponds to phased pairs of transducers such as 10, 10 . The delay profile should properly be shown in quantized delay units, but for the sake of clarity, quantization effects have been ignored. In Figs. 2b, 3b, 4b and 5b the corresponding summing delay line schematic configurations are shown. In these figures, each delay cell 58 is indicated by input summing means equivalent to summing amplifier 70 of Fig. 1 with the mixed intermediate frequency signal from one phased pair, such as 52, typically added with the output of an adjacent delay cell. In particular, Fig. 2a illustrates a delay profile required for a scan line in the center of the array and normal to it originating between transducer phased pairs 31 and 32. Fig. 2b illustrates the configuration of the summing delay line 56 which implements the delay profile shown in Fig. 2a. The phased intermediate frequency signals P Delay cell output switch means 76 in end delay cell 58₀ routes summed and delayed signal OUTSEL 0,t to associated summing amplifier 78. So also does switch 76 in end delay cell 58₆₃ route OUTSEL 63,t to its associated summing amplifier 78. Both signals OUTSEL 0,t and OUTSEL 63,t then connect via associated distribution switches 80 to the summing point at IF summing amplifier 86 in time overlapped relationship with substantial phase coherence. A linear scanning format with an active scan line normal to the array between transducer phased pairs 48 and 49 is shown in Fig. 3a. As described above, transducer phased pairs equal to or less than pair 48 steer to the left and pairs greater than 48 steer to the right. In the delay line configuration shown, each phased intermediate signal from P This static aperture control can be used to deactivate successive phased pairs while simultaneously shifting the delay profile to the right in this cyclic fashion in order to successively translate scan lines down the array, consistent with a linear scanning format. In the limiting case, the last scan line is placed over the last element in the array. In this case, as shown in Fig. 3c, half of the array is active. Delay cell 58₃₂ is outselected to IF summing amplifier 86 and the phased intermediate frequency signals P Fig. 4a illustrates delay profiles required in the sector scanning mode for steering angles ϑ which are between zero and 15 or so. This is a non monotonic delay profile with no particular symmetry. In the example shown, the maximum delay is assumed to be between transducer phased pairs 36 and 37. For phased pairs less than or equal to 36, the delay path progresses in the usual way to the left. The output of delay cell 58₀ is routed to the IF summing amplifier 86. The delay required for transducer pairs 37 to 63 is obtained by steering phased intermediate frequency signals P The last example, Figs. 5a and 5b, shows a delay line configuration for a typical off axis case, where the steering angle ϑ is greater than 15 or so. In such a case, the maximum delay occurs at the end of the array. Therefore, each phased pair starting with 63 merely looks leftward all the way to the first phased pair 0, which is then routed to the IF summing amplifier 86. The foregoing examples are used to illustrate the delay cell architecture of invention. Many variations are useful and possible which may be apparent to those skilled in the art, such as replacement of delay element 72 with several discrete delay elements in order to obtain smaller quantization values.