# Actuator.

## Abstract
An actuator for use in operating robots or manipulators includes a thin walled inner cylinder 1 made of a rubber like elastic material and an extensible and contractible reinforcing braided structure 2 surrounding the inner cylinder. The actuator is contracted to obtain contractive force when pressurized fluid is supplied into the inner cylinder to expand it in its radial direction, while changing the braided angles of the braided structure. According to the invention, the braided structure is made of a knotless net 18 , thereby eliminating hysteresis loss of the braided structure to reproduce contractive forces and contraction coefficients with high accuracy. Intersections 19, 20 of strands of the knotless net are preferably coated or impregnated with a lubricant, thereby more effectively decreasing the hysteresis loss of the braided structure.

## Claims
Claims 1. An actuator including a thin walled inner cylinder 1 made of an elastic material and an extensible and contractible reinforcing braided structure 2 surrounding the said inner cylinder, the said actuator being contractible in its axial direction to obtain contractive force when pressurized fluid is supplied into the inner cylinder to expand it in its radial direction, while changing the braided angles of the said braided structure, characterized in that the said braided structure is made of a knotless net 18 . 2. An actuator as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that intersections 19, 20 of strands of the said knotless net are coated with a lubricant. 3. An actuator as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that intersections 19 20 of strands of the said knotless net are impregnated with a lubricant. 4. An actuator as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that the said knotless net consists of a first number of parallel strands and a second number of parallel strands intersecting the said first mentioned parallel strands. 5. An actuator as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that the said knotless net consists of a number of zigzag extending strands, bent portions of two adjoining strands being jointed.

## Description
ACTUATOR This invention relates to an actuator. operable by fluid pressure, particularly suitable for actuating means for pneumatically driven robots or manipulators.More particularly the invention relates to an elastic actuator contractible and extensible in response to inner pressure therein. The present inventors have investigated and developed such actuators operated in response to inner pressure to operate, for example. arms and hands of robots. Such an actuator includes a thin walled inner cylinder made of an elastomer such as rubber or the like and an extensible and contractible braided structure covering and reinforcing the inner cylinder. When the inner cylinder is supplied with pneumatic pressure. the inner cylinder expands to increase its diameter and simultaneously shortens its axial length to provide a suitable contracting force for arms or hands. In such an expanding operation of the inner cylinder. the braided structure is also expanded to increase its braided angles to what is called angles of repose .Such a movement of the braided structure to change its braided angles is referred to herein as Zpantograph movement , because the movement of rhombus patterns of elements forming the braided structure is like the movement of a pantograph. Monofilanents, nultifilanents and twisted cords have been used for braiding the reinforcing structure covering the thin walled inner cylinder. It has been found that they have the following disadvantages in practical use.a Nonofilasents As their rigidity is high, a braided structure arcade of nonofilanents generally exhibits a high resistance to pantograph xoveuents to obstruct the expansion of an inner cylinder. Moreover, due to the high rigidity of the nonofilavents, hysteresis loss in the pantograph movement is large and intersections of the nonofilauents forming a braided structure are likely to be shifted or displaced so as to change their braided patterns resulting in malfunction of an actuator.b Multifilauents A braided structure nade of nultifilanents exhibits nuch lower resistance to pantograph novenents and smaller hysteresis loss than those of the nonofilanents. However, there is still a risk of change in braided patterns due to displaceuent and separation of the nultifilanents. c Cords A braided structure made of cords has the advantage that braided patterns are difficult to change. However. a braided structure made of cords tends to slacken, so that it is difficult to obtain an effective operating force, and hysteresis loss in the braided structure is large. Such a hitherto used actuator will be explained in more detail by referring to Fig. 1 of the accompanying drawings, which is a front elevation, partly in section, of a known actuator operated in response to inner pressure supplied therein. The actuator shown in Fig. 1 comprises a thin walled inner cylinder 1. a reinforcing braided structure 2 arranged on the outer surface of the cylinder 1, closure members 3 at both ends thereof and a clamp sleeve 4. The inner cylinder 1 is preferably made of a rubber or rubber like elastomer which is air impermeable and flexible. However, other materials equivalent thereto, for example various kinds of plastics. may be used for this purpose. The reinforcing braided structure 2 is somewhat similar to, for example, those conventional in pressure resistant rubber hoses whose braided angles are approximate to what is called an angle of repose 54 44 . With the braided structure of the thin walled inner cylinder, initial braided angles e are preferably of the order of 20 in order to obtain the above nentioned angle of repose when the braided structure is expanded in dianeter to the saxisus value by inner pressure filled or supplied to the inner cylinder 1. In this case, conditions when used are deternined so as to pernit a strain under normally used conditions to be of the order of 0.3. The tensile force resistant reinforcing elenents used in the reinforcing braided structure 2 are organic or inorganic high tensile fibers, preferably twisted or nontwisted filament bundles of, for example, glass fibers, very fine netal wires or aromatic polyanide fibers trade nance, KEVLAR . Moreover, an outer sheath of a weatherproof or danage protective fila may be preferably provided on the braided structure 2. Bach closure member 3 conprises a nipple 5 adapted to be closely fitted in each end of the inner cylinder 1 preferably with an adhesive for sealing the inner cylinder fron the atnosphere, a flange 6 for positioning the closure member relative to the inner cylinder, and an eye or yoke 7 having an aperture for a connecting pin not shown . The nipple 5 is preferably provided on its outer periphery with annular protrusions 8 each having a steep taper surface toward the eye 7 and a gentle taper surface in the opposite direction for preventing the nipple 5 from being removed.One of the closure members 3 is formed at least on one side with a connecting aperture 11 communicating with an inner cavity 10 of the inner cylinder 1 through an aperture 9 formed in the nipple 5 in its axial direction. A fitting 12 is fitted in the connecting aperture 11 of the closure member 3. Each clamp sleeve 4 is a cylindrical metal member engaging the flange 6 so as to cover the end outer circumference of the inner cylinder 1 and having a flare 13. The clamp sleeve 4 is partially pressed toward the nipple 5 in its radial direction to sealingly unite the closure member 3 with the inner cylinder 1. The reference numeral 14 in Fig. 1 denotes axial depressions in the sleeve 4 caused by a calking tool in its formation process. To the fitting 12 is connected an operating pressure source, for example an air compressor, through a line having a three way valve not shown . When an operating pressure P is applied into the inner cavity 10 of the inner cylinder 1 through the fitting 12, the braided structure 2 is expanded from the position shown in solid lines to that shown in phantom lines in Fig. 1 to enlarge the initial braided angles 8 to ex or in the pantograph movement of the reinforcing cords of the braided structure 2 so as to cause an enlargement of the diameter of the inner cylinder 1 and a contraction in its axial direction caused thereby. The force F of the contraction is given by the following equation 1 .EMI6.1 On the other hand. when the controlled pressure in the cavity 10 of the inner cylinder 1 is released through the three way valve into the atrosphere, the inner cylinder 1 regain its length with decrease of the braided angle e x It is therefore understood that such a pneumatic actuator can bring about bending and extending iovenent or articulate Bovelents between two pivotally connected or articulated operating arms to which the eyes or yokes 7 of the closure members 3 of the pneumatic actuator are connected by means of pins. As above described, the hitherto used reinforcing elements for the braided structures are ronofilanents 15 shown in Fig. 2a, nultifilaments 16 shown in Fig. 2b, or twisted cords 17 shown in Fig. 2c of the accompanying drawings. All these elements are unsatisfactory on the whole, although having some advantages. Referring to Fig. 3 of the accompanying drawings, which illustrates the hysteresis loss of these braided structures in the relation between contractive forces and contraction coefficients in actuators operated in response to inner pressures, there is apparent a difference between a decreasing rate of the contractive forces in increasing the contraction coefficients and an increasing rate of the contractive forces in decreasing the contraction coefficients. The difference is illustrated by a triangular area surrounded by lines having arrows in the graph of Fig. 3. The present invention aims to provide an improved actuator for use in robots or manipulators, which eliminates or at least mitigates the disadvantages of the prior art. The invention also aims to provide a pneumatic actuator capable of reproducing contractive forces and contraction coefficients with high power with high accuracy by eliminating hysteresis loss of the actuator. The invention further aims to provide an actuator which exhibits high accuracy response even if operating pressure is low. thereby easily controlling positions and forces for robots and manipulators. The present invention provides an actuator including a thin walled inner cylinder made of an elastic material. preferably a rubber or rubber like elastic material, and an extensible and contractible reinforcing braided structure surrounding the inner cylinder, the actuator being contractible in its axial direction to obtain contractive force when pressurized fluid is supplied into the inner cylinder to expand it in its radial direction, while changing the braided angles of the said braided structure, characterized in that the braided structure is lade of a knotless net. In a preferred embodiment of the invention, intersections of strands of the knotless net are coated or inpregnated with a lubricant, thereby more effectively decreasing the hysteresis loss in the pantograph movement. The invention will be further described, by way of example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings. in which Fig. 4a is a partial view of one embodiment of a braided structure used for an actuator according to the invention and Fig. 4b is a partial view of a braided structure of another embodiment of the invention. Figs. 4a and 4b illustrate knotless nets of preferred embodiments of the invention on an enlarged scale. The passing through type knotless net 18 shown in Fig. 4a consists of a first number of parallel strands and a second number of parallel strands intersecting the first mentioned parallel strands. The zigzag type knotless net 18 shown in Fig. 4b consists of a number of zigzag extending strands. bent portions of two adjoining strands being jointed. In both the embodiments, yarns are twisted to form the respective strands and at the same time two respective strands adjoining each other are jointed to form meshes of the net. Accordingly, any frictional resistance does not occur due to the transformation of mesh patterns in pantograph movements of the strands, or changing braided angles. In both embodiments, intersections 19 and 20 of the strands are preferably coated or impregnated with a lubricant, thereby more effectively and considerably decreasing the hysteresis loss in the pantograph movement. Openings of the meshes of the knotless net are preferably not more than 6 x 6mm, more preferably of the order of 2 x 2mm, to obtain the satisfactory function of an actuator. In use, a braided structure of a knotless net as above described according to the invention is stretched to an initial status such that acute angles made by adjoining strands are not more than 400 or braided angles e are not more than 200, for example 10 50. The braided structure under such an initial status is then arranged on a thin walled inner cylinder 1.With this arrangement. the braided structure ensures positive contractive forces caused in an actuator equipped with this braided structure without any displacement of the intersections 19 and 20, any disturbance of the braided patterns and any slack of strands of the braided structure. In one practical example, strands having diameters of 12 consisting of thirty four polyester yarns of 3,000 d 2 were braided to form reinforcing braided structures of a knot less net according to the invention, which were then arranged with braided angles of 5 on thin walled inner cylinders having outer diameters of 11.4as and wall thicknesses of 1n to form actuators. With such actuators, it has been found that high power can be easily obtained which is more than 100 times that of pneumatic cylinders having the same diameters as those of the actuators. As can be seen from the above description, the actuator having the reinforcing braided structure according to the invention can reproduce contractive forces and contraction coefficients with high power and with high accuracy in response to operating pressure, as a result of eliminating the hysteresis loss of the actuator, and therefore the actuator according to the invention exhibits high accuracy response even if the operating pressure is low. Accordingly, when the actuators according to the invention are used in operating elements for robots and manipulators, control of positions and forces for them can be very easily effected.