# Novel intermediate for the preparation of cyclopropane carboxylate esters and its preparation and use.

## Abstract
A novel compound, 1R, Cis 3 phonoxybenzyl 2,2 di methyl 3 hydroxymethyl cyclopropane carboxylate

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. 1R, Cis 3 phenoxybenzyl 2,2 dimethyl 3 hydroxymethyl cyclopropane carboxylate of formula EMI9.1 2. A process for the preparation of 1R, Cis 3 phenoxy benzyl 2,2 dimethyl 3 hydroxymethyl cyclopropane carboxylate which comprises, in a first step, hydrolysing the 7 lactone of LR, Cis 2,2 dimethyl 3 hydroxymethyl cyclopropane l carboxylic acid of formula EMI9.2 and, in a second step, reacting the intermediate thus formed with a 3 phenoxybenzyl halide having of formula EMI9.3 wherein X represents a halide. 3. A process according to claim 2 wherein the hydrolysis is carried out with a base in the presence of a solvent. 4. A process according to claim 3 wherein the base is an alkali metal hydroxide, an alkaline earth metal hydroxide or a quaternary ammonium hydroxide, or a mixture thereof. 5. A process according to claim 3 or 4 wherein the solvent is an alkanol having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, dichloromethane or tetrahydrofuran, or a mixture thereof. 6. A process according to any one of claims 2 to 5 wherein the hydrolysis is carried out at a temperature of from 00 to 1000C. 7. A process according to any one of claims 2 to 6 wherein the 3 phenoxybenzyl halide is 3 phenoxybenzyl chloride, 3 phenoxybenzyl bromide or 3 phenoxybenzyl iodide. 8. A process according to any one of claims 2 to 7 wherein the reaction of the intermediate with the 3 phenoxybenzyl halide is carried out in the presence of a catalyst. 9. A process according to claim 8 wherein the catalyst is triethylamine or tetramethylethylene diamine, or a mixture thereof. 10. A process according to any one of claims 2 to 9 wherein the reaction of the intermediate with the 3 phenoxybenzyl halide is carried out at a temperature of from 0 to 1000C.

## Description
NOVEL INTERMEDIATE FOR THE PREPARATION OF CYCLOPROPANE CARBOXYLATE ESTERS AND ITS PREPARATION AND USE. This invention relates to cyclopropane carboxylate esters having insecticidal activity and to their preparation. The cyclopropane carboxylate esters generally known as Pyrethroids are insecticidally active. One class of these Pyrethroid compounds may be represented by the general formulae EMI1.1 It has been established that the stereoisomeric form of the acid portion of the esters II and III should have the 1R, Cis configuration for maximum insecticidal activity. The present invention provides the novel compound lR, Cis 3 phenoxybenzyl 2, 2 dimethyl 3 hydroxymethyl cyclopropane carboxylate of the formula EMI2.1 which is a useful intermediate for the preparation of pyrethroid insecticides of formula II. The invention also provides a process for the manufacture of the said lR, Cis cyclopropanecarboxylate ester of formula I from the y lactone of 1R, Cis 2,2 dimethyl 3 hydroxymethyl cyclopropane 1carboxylic acid of the formula EMI2.2 which comDrises, in a first step, hydrolysing the y lactone of 1R, Cis 2,2 dimethyl 3 hydroxymethyl cyclopropane l carboxylic acid of formula IV , preferably with a base, and, in a second step, alkylating the intermediate thus formed with a 3 phenoxybenzyl halide of formula V EMI2.3 wherein X represents a halide, preferably chlorine, bromine or iodine. The starting material of formula IV may be obtained by the process described in European PatentApplication No. 84300215.5 filed on January 13th 1984. Preferably, the step of hydrolysis of the compound of formula IV is carried out in the presence of a solvent. In this step of the process, the base which can be used may be an alkali metal hydroxide, alkaline earth metal hydroxide, or quaternary ammonium hydroxide, and is preferably sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide or tetra n butyl ammonium hydroxide. Suitable solvents are alkanols having 1 4 carbon atoms, preferably ethanol, dichloromethane, and tetrahydrofuran. The reaction can be carried out at a mild temperature, e.g. between 0 to 100 C, but preferably at ambient temperature. In the second step of the process of the invention the alkylation may be effected in the presence of a tertiary amine, preferably triethylamine or tetramethylethylenediamine. The same reaction zone or vessel as for the hydrolysis, and the same solvents as described for the first step may be used. The alkylation may be effected under mild conditions, e.g. at 0 to 100 C, preferably at 80 C, using 3 phenoxybenzyl chloride, 3 phenoxybenzyl bromide or 3 phenoxybenzyl iodide as the alkylating agent.When the hydrolysis in the first step is carried out with an alkali metal hydroxide or alkaline earth metal hydroxide, the alkylation reaction in the second step may be carried out in presence of a catalyst, e.g. a tertiary amine, preferably triethylamine or tetramethylethylene diarnine, as already mentioned. The compound of formula I may be converted into a pyrethroid of formula II by oxidation with chromium trioxide in pyridine to yield the corresponding aldehyde ester, followed by subjection of the said aldehyde ester to a Wittig reaction with triphenyl phosphine or hexamethylphosphotriamide in carbon tetrachloride to give the product of formula II. The invention will now be further illustrated by way of the following Examples, which demonstrate processes for preparing IR, Cis 5 phenoxybenzyl 2, 2 dimethyl 3 hydroxymethyl cyclopropane carboxylate The identity and purity of the product in eachExample was determined by spectroscopic and GLC analysis. EXAMPLE 1 To a stirred solution comprising 12,6 g 0,1 mol of the gamma lactone of 1ss, Cis dimethyl 3 hydroxymethyl cyclopropane t carboxylic acid of formula IV herein in 30 ml of ethanol were added SO ml of 1 5 , aqueous sodium hydroxide solution. The reaction mixture thus prepared was stirred for 1 hour at ambient temperature after which the solvent was removed to yield the sodium salt of the 1R, Cis acid of formula IV as a pale yellow solid. The salt obtained was dissolved in 40 ml ethanol to which 2603 g 0.1 mol 3 phenoxybenzyl bromide in 20 ml ethanol were added This reaction mixture was ref fluxed for 2 hours after addition of 1.0 g 0.01 mol of triethylamine.Ethanol was removed and the residue extracted with dichloromethane 2 x 100 ml O The organic layer was washed with saturated brine solution and dried, Removal of the solvent yielded 1R, Cis 3 phenoxybenzyl 2,2 dimethyl 3hydroxymethyl cyclopropane carboxylate of the formula I herein, 30.5 g, 93.5 .The product obtained was then purified by column chromatography over silica gel using as eluent a mixture of n hexane and chloroform in a ratio of 9 t to yield the pure ester of formula r is a yellow viscous oil 25 g, 80 alpha D25 5.0 C 2, CHCl EXAMPLE 2 The same procedure was followed as in Example 1 except that for the hydrolysis, 12.6 g 0.01 mol of the gamma lactone of 1R, Cis dimethyl 3 hydroxymethyl cyclopropane 1carboxylic acid of formula IV in 30 ml of ethanol were employed with a 5 aqueous sodium hydroxide solution.The only other difference from Example I was that the subsequent alkylation of the hydrolysate with 3 phenoxybenzyl bromide was carried out in the presence of 1.16 g 0.01 mol tetramethylethylene diamine as catalyst. The final product comprised the pure ester of formula I the yield being 25.5 g, 82 OC D25 5.00 C 2, CHCl3 . EXAMPLE 3 The same procedure was followed as in Example i except that for the hydrolysis, 6.3 g 0.05 mol of the lactone of iR, Cis dimethyl 3 hydroxymethyl cyclopropane i carboxylic acid of formula IV in 20 ml of 1 propanol or 2 propanol were added to 110 ml of a 50 aqueous sodium hydroxide solution while the subsequent alkylatlon of the hydrolysate was effected with 13.20 g 0.05 mol 3 phenoxybenzyl bromide in 10 ml o f 1 propanol or 2 propanol. The final product comprised the pure ester of formula I in the form of a yellow viscous oil, the yield being 12.1 g, 78 D25 4.980 C 1, CHCl3 . EXAMPLE 4 The procedure of Example 1 was repeated employing for the hydroxlysate 6.3 6 0.05 mol of the gamma lactone of 1R, Cis dimethyl 3 hydroxymethyl cyclopropane 1carboxylic acid of formula IV in 20 ml of ethanol and 130 ml of a io ethanolic solution of tetra n butyl ammonium hydroxide0 Hydrolysis was effected for 2 hours at ambient temperature followed by alkylation of the hydrolysate with 26w3 g 0.01 mol 3 phenoxybenzyl bromide. No amine catalyst was present during alkylation. After purification, the final product comprised the pure ester of formula I , the yield. being 21.2 g, 65 alpha D25 5.05 C 1, CHCl3 . EXAMPLE 5 The procedure of Example 1 was followed. For the hydrolysis there was employed 2.52 g 0o02 mol of the gamma lactone of 1R, Cis dimethyl 3 hydroxymethyl cyclopropane 1 carboxylic acid of formula IV in 10 ml of ethanol or l propanol or 2 propanol with l6 mi of a 5 aqueous sodium hydroxide solution. The hydrolysate was subjected to alkylation by means of 4.4 g 0.02 mol 3 phenoxybenzyl chloride in the presence of 0.2 o tr iethyl amine or 0.23 g tetramethylethylene diamine as catalyst. After purification, the final product comprised the pure ester of formula I , the yield being 3.7 g, 60 alpha D25 5.0 C 1, CHCl3 3 EXAMPLE 6 Procedure identical to that of Example V was followed with the exception that for alkylation of the hydrolysate, 6o2 g 0.02 mol 3 phenoxybenzyl iodide was employed instead of the chloride. Other reactants and amounts were maintained. The final product comprised the pure ester of formula I , the yield being 5.26 g, 81 D25 5.080 C 1, CHCl3 .