# IMPROVEMENTS RELATING TO SHOCK ABSORBERS

## Abstract
The present specification discloses a shock absorber for use on automatic vehicles. Such shock absorbers include piston valves 5, 51 and, dependent upon type, foot valves 101 . These valves are preset during manufacture to an op timum setting dependent upon the type of use for which the vehicle is designed. However, a vehicle will possibly be used during its life on terrain or at speeds which do not match this optimum setting. To allow for in use adiustment various mechanical modifications have been made to shock absorbers. However, these modifications have resulted in a bulky shock absorber which is difficult to include in a vehicle design. The present invention provides a shock absorber of monotube or twin tube configuration wherein the piston 5 within the shock absorber includes an electromagnetically operable bypass valve 39, 37, 29 the electromagnetically operable valve 39, 37, 29 being controlled remotely from the outside of the shock absorber via an electrical connection 45 which extends along the piston rod 7 . In a twin tube con figuration according to the present invention, the foot valve assen,bly 101 also includes an electromagnetically operable bypass valve 121, 129 which is remotely controlled from the outside of the shock absorber via an electrical connection. These electrical connections 45 do not affect the overall design of the shock absorber and can thus be easily included in a vehicle design. Further, these electrical connections can be connected to a microprocessor so that the shock absorber valves are controlled by the microprocessor dependent upon the values of certain parameters, e.g. speed, load, fed to the microprocessor from appropriate sensors.