# Hose end fitting.

## Abstract
An end fitting or coupling shown in Figure 1 comprises an insert member 10 and a ferrule 11 arranged to be attached to a hose 12 . The insert member 10 comprises an external coupling portion 13 and an insert portion 14 joined by a flange portion 15 . The ferrule 11 has teeth 16 adapted to grip the hose 12 and the insert portion 14 has teeth 17 for the same purpose. The ferrule 11 is provided with a latch por tion 18 and an adjacent shoulder 20 , the shoulder 20 being of greater diameter than the latch portion 18 . The insert por tion 14 is provided with a groove 19 adapted to receive the latch portion 18 and a surface 21 in the form of a rib adapted to be contracted by the shoulder 20 . When the ferrule 11 is crimped onto the hose 12 the latch 18 enters the groove 19 so that the latch 18 is actually in full contact with the base surface of the groove 19 . At the same time the shoulder 20 comes into full contact with the surface 21 . The action of those two contact areas is to ensure that the ferrule 11 re mains concentrically aligned with the insert member 10 when crimped onto the hose 12 .

## Claims
Claims 1. A hose end fitting comprising an insert member 14 and an external ferrule 11 , the ferrule 11 having a latch portion 18 adapted to enter a groove 19 in the insert member characterised in that the ferrule also has a shoulder 20 adjacent the latch portion adapted to contact a surface 21 on the insert member adjacent the groove, whereby when the ferrule 11 is crimped onto the insert member 14 contact takes place between the latch portion 18 and the base of the groove 19 and contact also takes place between the shoulder 20 and the said surface 21 so as to maintain the ferrule in concentric relationship with the insert. 2. A hose end fitting according to claim 1 and characterised in that said surface 21 is on a rib formed on the insert member. 3. A hose end fitting according to claim 1 or claim 2 characterised in that the internal diameter of the shoulder 20 is greater than the internal diameter of the latch portion 18 . 4. A hose end fitting according to any preceding claim characterised in that the latch 18 and the shoulder 21 are integral of the ferrule. 5. A hose end fitting according to any preceding claim characterised in that the ferrule 11 is, before it is crimped onto the hose and shoulder, a separate and removable part of the coupling. 6. A hose end fitting or coupling in combination with a high pressure hose 12 , the coupling comprising an insert member 14 which is entered into the end of the hose 12 and a ferrule 11 which is crimped onto the the outside of the hose, so that the hose is gripped between the insert member 14 and the ferrule 11 , the ferrule having a latch portion 18 which enters a groove 19 in the insert member 14 during crimping of the ferrule 11 onto the hose, so as to make contact with the base of the groove characterised by the ferrule 11 also having a shoulder 20 adjacent the latch portion which engages a rib 21 on the insert member, so that the concentricity is maintained between the insert member and the ferrule. 7. A hose end fitting according to any preceding claim characterised in that the geometry of the latch and shoulder are such that the latch 18 is always at least partially engaged in the groove 19 thus retaining the ferrule loosely captive on the insert portion prior to assembly on to the hose.

## Description
HOSE END FITTING This invention relates to hose end fittings such as couplings for joining two portions of a hose or couplings for attaching hoses to fluid outlets or inlets or end fittings which are used to join two lengths of hose of dissimilar diameters etc. The invention has application particularly, but not exclusively to hose end fittings for use with high pressure hoses. End fittings are known which comprise an insert member which enters the hose and a surrounding annular ferrule which is crimped onto the hose and on to the insert member so as to unite the end fitting with the end of the hose. One problem with such end fittings which is particularly acute when dealing with high pressure hoses but also occurs with other hoses, is the maintenance of concentricity between the ferrule and the insert member. If concentricity is not maintained there is always a possibility of failure of the end fitting and consequent leakage from the hose. An object of the invention is to provide a hose end fitting, and particularly a coupling for a high pressure hose, which includes special features to maintain concentricity between the end fitting and the ferrule during assembly. In accordance with the present invention a hose end fitting comprises an insert member and an external ferrule, the ferrule having a latch portion adapted to enter a groove in the insert member, the ferrule also having a shoulder adjacent the latch portion adapted to contact a surface on the insert member adjacent the groove, whereby when the ferrule is crimped onto the insert member contact takes place between the latch portion and the base of the groove and contact also takes place between the shoulder and the said surface so as to maintain the ferrule in concentric relationship with the insert. Preferably, the said surface is on a rib formed on the insert member. Preferably, the internal diameter of the shoulder is greater than the internal diameter of the latch portion. Preferably, the latch and the shoulder are integral parts of the ferrule. Preferably the ferrule is, before it is crimped on to the hose and shoulder, a separate and removable part of the coupling. From another aspect the invention comprises a hose end fitting or coupling in combination with a high pressure hose, the coupling comprising an insert member which is entered into the end of the hose and a ferrule which is crimped onto the outside of the hose, so that the hose is gripped between the insert member and the ferrule, a ferrule having a latch portion which enters a groove in the insert member during crimping of the ferrule onto the hose, so as to make contact with the base of the groove, and the ferrule also having a shoulder adjacent the latch portion which engages a rib on the insert member, so that the concentricity is maintained between the insert member and the ferrule. In the accompanying drawings Figure 1 is a longitudinal section through a high pressure hose coupling or end fitting embodying the invention, the coupling being shown before it has been crimped onto the hose and Figure 2 shows the same coupling after it has been crimped onto the hose. The coupling shown in Figure 1 comprises an insert member 10 and a ferrule 11 which are arranged to be attached to a hose 12 of the high pressure reinforced type. The insert member 10 comprises an external coupling portion 13 and an insert portion 14 joined by a flange portion 15. The ferrule 11 has teeth 16 adapted to grip the hose 12 and the insert portion 14 has teeth 17 for the same purpose. The ferrule 11 is provided with a latch portion 18 and an adjacent shoulder 20, the shoulder being of greater diameter than the latch portion 18. The insert portion 14 is provided with a groove 19 adapted to receive the latch portion 18 and a surface 21 in the form of a rib adapted to be contacted by the shoulder 20. As shown in Figure 1 the ferrule which is a separate part to the insert member has not been crimped into position over the hose, although the hose has been inserted between the ferrule and the insert member.It will be noted that the latch portion 18 and shoulder 20 form integral parts of the ferrule. They may be cast integrally with the ferrule or machined into the ferrule. when the ferrule is crimped onto the hose in the conventional manner the latch 18 enters the groove 19 as shown in Figure 2 so that the latch 18 is actually in full contact with the base surface of the groove 19.At the same time the shoulder 10 comes into full contact with the surface 21. The action of these two contact areas is to ensure that the ferrule remains concentrically aligned with the insert member when crimped onto the hose 12. Although the ferrule is shown as a removable portion the geometry of the latch 18 and shoulder 20 could be changed so that the latch 18 is always partially engaged into the groove 19 thus retaining the ferrule loosely captive on the insert portion prior to assembly onto a hose. The principle described above in relation to the illustrated embodiment could be used on other forms of end fitting or coupling and can be used with low or high pressure hoses although the maintenance of concen tricity is particularly important in relation to high pressure hoses. One reason why the end fitting of the present invention is so effective in maintaining concentricity is that grip takes place between the ferrule and the insert at two different diameters i.e. the smaller diameter of the annular groove in the insert and the larger diameter of the rib. This provides a muchImproved retention characteristic under impulse loading of the hose. Existing hose end fittings of this general type are prone to longitudinal movement, relatively to the hose, when high transient pressures occur. This movement is normally undetectable visually but laboratory testing has shown that there is, with known hose end fittings, a limitation to a number of impulse cycles achievable before failure occurs. An important additional advantage of the present invention is that the thickening of the latch portion and the additional contact provided by the adjacent rib and shoulder strengthens the latch in the longitudinal direction and so the coupling is less prone to longitudinal movement relatively to the hose when high transient or impulse pressures occur.Thus a hose fitting embodying the present invention provides much improved retention characteristics under impulse loading of the hose. A recently introduced flexing test for hose end fittings consists of impulsflng the hose assembly whilst flexing through a moving angle. This places a strain on the hose coupling joint which is quite severe and we have shown during laboratory tests that we can achieve a far greater number of cycles with the double step shell when flexing the ferrule tends to move in a direction diametrically opposed to the insert in a sidewards back and forth motion. The double step supports this motion far more satisfactorily than the normal single latch. This has an enormous advantage especially with introduction of the new type testing and is totally unique. If the hose assembly is installed in a situation whereby vibration or operation of a machine causes it to flex in a direction which is at 900 to the centre line of the hose, then this movement will only be contained if there is no movement between the ferrule and the insert. The double latch resists movement between the ferrule and the insert in an axial direction, and gives added rigidity between the ferrule and the insert.Thus the life of the assembly under vibratory or flexing conditions is extended.