# HUMAN RENIN GENOMIC DNA

## Claims
Genomische DNS Fragmentkodierung für menschliches Renin hat die in Figuren 1A und 1B angegebene Sequenz oder ein DNS Fragment, das für dieselbe Aminosäurensequenz kodiert und das die wie in Figuren 1A und 1B angegebenen Introne enthält.

## Description
Renin is an aspartyl proteinase synthesized mainly in the juxta glomerular cells of the kidney, which are located in the afferent arterioles immediately proximal to the glomeruli Oparil, S. and Haber, E., N. Engl. J. Med. Imai, T., et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA The present invention provides human renin genomic DNA in a recombinant DNA sequence and an animal host cell transformed thereby. In the drawings This invention is a sequence of recombinant DNA base pairs encoding human renin comprising the sequence of DNA base pairs set forth in Figures 1A and 1B hereof and functional equivalents thereof and an animal cell transformed with said replicable sequence of recombinant DNA. The human renin gene was isolated from a Charon 4A human genomic library and characterized. The gene spans about 11.7 kb and consists of 10 exons and 9 introns which map at variable surface loops of the enzyme. The complete coding regions, the 5 and 3 flanking regions, and the exon intron boundaries were sequenced. The active site aspartyl residues Asp 38 and Asp 226 are encoded by the third and eighth exons, respectively. The extra three amino acids Asp 165 Ser 166 Glu 167 which are not present in mouse renin are coded for by the separate sixth exon, an exon as small as 9 nucleotides. The putative TATA and CAAT sequences, which may play a role in the initiation of gene transcription, are found in the vicinity of 29 and 51 nucleotides of the CAP site. Further upstream, at nucleotides 456 to 451, is located the hexanucleotide TGTCT which has recently been suggested as a binding site for the glucocorticoid receptor. In the 3 flanking region there is the conserved hexanucleotide sequence, AATAAA, thought to be necessary for polyadenylation. Blot hybridization analyses of the isolated gene clone and the total cellular DNA after digestion with restriction enzymes revealed that human renin is encoded by a single gene. The structure of the genomic human renin gene is set forth in Figures 1A and 1B and is described in detail hereinbelow. The following plasmids containing fragments of the genomic human renin gene were constructed as described in detail hereinbelow. Refer to Figures 1A, 1B and 2 for an identification of the gene region contained in each plasmid Biologically pure cultures of each of the above strains were deposited on 23.04.84 at the permanent collection of the Northern Regional Research Center Fermentation Laboratory NRRL , U.S. Department of Agriculture in Peoria, Illinois, USA. The renin gene fragments can be extracted from the above identified plasmids by digesting the plasmid DNA from a culture s of NRRL B 15765, B 15766, B 15767, or B 15768 with appropriate endonuclease restriction enzymes, most suitably enzymes which will cleave at the sites of the gene depicted in Figure 2. The restriction endonucleases are commercially available and their use is well known in the art and usually is provided by the commercial supplier of the enzyme. The excised gene setment s can be ligated to various cloning vehicles or vectors for use in transforming a host cell. The vector may be a replicating vector, i.e., a vector which replicates within the host cell, or an integrating vector, i.e., a vector which serves to transport the exogenous gene material into the host cell and integrate said gene material with the DNA of the host cell. The vector contains heterologous gene sequences to initiate transcription and translation of the renin gene which are compatible with the host cell to be transformed. There are several possible ways to use genomic clones of the human renin gene to obtain human renin expressed from animal cells. For example, the intact genomic clone, with its own promoter and polyadenylation signal can be inserted into a cell by any one of the following types of vector systems co transfection of host cells with the renin gene and a marker for which there is a selection, e.g., the herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase gene as generally described in Cell, There are several well known methods of introducing DNA into animal cells, and these may be used for any of the three types of vector systems described above. These include calcium phosphate precipitation of the DNA and transfection with the calcium phosphate precipitate, fusion of the recipient cells with bacterial protoplasts containing the DNA, treatment of the recipient cells with liposomes containing the DNA, and microinjection of the DNA directly into the cells. The transformed cells are grown up by means well known in the art, e.g., see The present invention provides a source of human genomic renin which can be used in diagnosing hypertensive patients by assaying the patients sera with antibodies to the human renin by various known immunoassay techniques. Also, the renin expressed from the human genomic renin gene expressed in accordance with the present invention can be used to design inhibitors of renin which would be useful in treating hypertensive patients. All cloning experiments were performed in accordance with the guidelines for research involving recombinant DNA molecules issued by the Ministry of Education, Science and Culture of Japan. The purified DNA fragments were subcloned into the EcoRI site of plasmid pBR 322. Transformations of The restriction fragments containing an exonic sequence and its surrounding regions were identified by blot hybridization at 65 C for 12 hours with a nick translated ³²P cDNA probe as described above. Filters were autoradiographed at 70 C with intensifier screens. The fragments were isolated from polyacrylamide gels and subjected to nucleotide sequence analysis to determine the exon intron junctions by the procedure of Maxam and Gilbert, Methods Enzymol. Comparison between the gene structure and the tertiary structure of human renin Umeyama, H., et al., Hypertension, 1984, in press revealed that all the intron exon boundaries follow the rule, proposed by Craik, et al. Craik, C.S., Nature 299, 180 182, 1982 , that splice junctions tend to map at protein surfaces. Soubrier, et al Soubrier, F., et al., Nucleic Acids Res. The plasmid pHRg88 is digested with EcoRI, the 5.7 kb EcoRI fragment isolated, and that fragment cloned into the EcoRI site of pSV2neo. The resulting plasmid is partially digested with EcoRI, full length linear molecules isolated, and the 0.7 kb EcoRI fragment from pHRg07 cloned into that. Using restriction enzymes cleavage sites shown in Figure 2, the resulting plasmids are screened for ones containing two EcoRI fragments oriented the same as indicated in Figure 2 to exist in the human renin gene. This process is repeated on the resulting plasmid to insert the 3.4 kb EcoRI fragment from pHRg34 and then the same thing is done to insert the 7.8 kb EcoRI fragment from pHRg78. The resulting plasmid carries the entire human renin gene. The resulting plasmid carrying the intact renin gene can be introduced into Hela cells by calcium phosphate precipitation. 10 µg of plasmid DNA in 0125 ml 10 mM TrisHCl, pH 7.4, 1mM EDTA, is mixed with 0125 ml 2X HBS 280 mM NaCl, 1.5 mM NaHPO₄, 40 mM HEPES pH 7.1 . Then 33 ml 2M CO₂ is added and the precipitate allowed to form for 30 minutes at room temperature. The precipitate is then added to a 25 cm2 monolayer of Hela cells, along with 4 ml Dulbeco s modified Eagle s medium plus 10 fetal calf serum DME . 12 hours later the precipitate is removed and 5 ml fresh DME is added to the cells. 24 hours later the transfected cells are split 1 20 into DME 200 µg ml G418. Surviving cells have incorporated the plasmid DNA and express human renin.