# FLUOROMETRIC ASSAY OF IGG4

## Claims
Verfahren zur Identifizierung und Quantifizierung von allergen spezifischen IgG₄ Werten in Serum von Patienten, umfassend

## Description
This invention relates to methods and reagents for assaying blood serum of patients demonstrating allergic symptomotology to identify the source of the allergy and determine the level of the respective allergen specific IgG₄ in the serum. In particular, this invention relates to diagnostic methods and reagents therefor which provide increased specificity and accuracy, the results of which can be reliably used to monitor IgG₄ levels in patent serum before and during allergic desensitization. Radiometric and fluorometric methods for identifying and measuring antigen levels in patient serum are commercially available and are known as the RAST test, for example. U.S. patents RE 29,474 3,555,143 3,648,346 3,720,760, and 3,966,898 relate to these methods and reagents therefor. Enzymatic immunological methods for identifying and quantifying antigens and Haptens in liquids are widely used and are known as the ELISA and EIA, for example. Basic technology for enzymatic assays and reagents therefor is disclosed in U.S. patents RE 29,169 and 3,839,153, for example. A review of the current state of the art with regard to immunoassays for the detection of proteins in solutions is provided by R. Rose et al, A variety of sensitive immunoassays for specific human IgG₄ levels are described in Halpern, G.M. RAST, polystyrene tube RIA, and MSPRIA are all radioimmunoassays, in which antigen specific antibodies in serum samples bind to solid phase bound antigens and can thus be detected by radiolabeled subclass specific reagents. In the RAST method, antigens are chemically coupled to cellulose or Sepharose 4B using cyanogen bromide. Serum samples are allowed to incubate at room temperature with these antigen coupled cellulose disks or Sepharose, usually for 24 hours. The disks or Sepharose are then washed extensively and developed with radiolabeled ¹²⁵I human IgG₄ specific affinity column purified antibodies. The results are usually expressed as percentages of added radioactivity. Procedures for binding proteins to insoluble supports have been primarily described. US 4410634 describes a method in which specific immunoreactive haptens are covalently bound to a macromolecular carrier and the resulting hapten carrier conjugate is adsorbed to the surface of a solid phase. Antibodies have also been covalently bonded to insoluble supports as described in U.S. Patent Nos. 3,551,555, 3,553,310, 4,048,298, and RE 29,474. Binding of antibodies to polystyrene by adsorption has been described in U.S. Patents Nos. 3,646,346 and 4,092,408, for example. Allergens have been covalently bonded to a variety of insoluble supports as described in U.S. Patents Nos. 3,720,760. Polyethylene glycol has been used in protein fractionation processes as described by A. Polson et al, This invention relates to a method for identifying and quantifying allergen specific IgG₄ levels in patient serum. It comprises the steps of In the insoluble allergen reagent of this invention the allergen is preferably adherent to the insoluble support by non covalent bonding such as by absorption or adsorption, fur example. The allergen adhering to the insoluble support is preferably present as an allergen covalently bonded to a water soluble polymer having an absorption or adsorption affinity for the insoluble support. The allergen polymer product is adherent to the insoluble support by non covalent bonding. The insoluble support has a plurality of test wells separated by opaque material. Preferably, the anti IgG₄ antibody is a monoclonal antibody to which alkaline phosphatase is bound, the anti IgG₄ is contacted with the insoluble support in an aqueous solution containing from 1 to 8 weight percent polyethylene glycol having a molecular weight of from 1000 to 10,000 and a non ionic surfactant, and the substrate is 4 methylumbelliferyl phosphate. If the allergen bonded to the insoluble support is covalently bonded to a water soluble polymer having absorption or adsorption affinity for the insoluble support, in a preferred procedure the insoluble support is prerinsed with an aqueous buffered rinse solution containing from 0.0001 to 0.5 weight percent of the water soluble polymer. The role of IgG₄ in immune response is not yet clearly understood. Halpern, G.M. Key to successful treatment of allergic conditions is the accurate identification of the offending allergen and the titration of the patient to determine the desensitization dosage. In general, reconstituted allergen extract is injected in sufficient quantity to cause major production of antigen specific IgG blocking antibody and major production and or activation of suppressor T lymphocytes. Monitoring IgG₄ levels is believed to be important in determining the dosage quantities. The method of this invention provides the specificity and accuracy to monitor allergen specific IgG₄ levels in patient serum, providing valuable information relating to desensitization treatment regiments. With the method of this invention, more exact assessment of the suitable desensitization dose can be determined. Booster injections can be timed to maintain the requisite IgG₄ levels. Usually the doses required for booster injections are substantially greater than the maximum dose required for control of the initial allergic reaction. The process of this invention comprises a first step of contacting an insoluble support having allergen adhering thereto with patient serum for a sufficient time to permit conjugation of allergen with IgG₄ in the patient serum and then removing the patient serum from the support. In this procedure the patient serum is preferably undiluted prior to contact with the supported allergen. The incubation time should be sufficient to permit substantial conjugation to occur, the time being temperature dependent. Suitable incubation times are from 30 to 180 minutes at temperatures within the range of from 18 to 40 C, the preferred contact time being from 60 to 120 minutes at temperatures within the range of from 20 to 26 C. The insoluble support, which consists of a plurality of wells separated by opaque material, having the allergen adhering thereto is an important aspect of this invention. The allergen can be any allergenic material such as allergen derived from pollens derived from trees, shrubs, weeds, and grasses molds smuts dusts allergens derived from danders, hair, and epidermals of animals extracts derived from insects including insect venoms and from foods. A wide variety of compounds can be employed as the solid support, the primary consideration being the binding of the allergens to the surface, the absence of interference with the enzyme labeled anti IgG₄ antibody reagent, enzymatic reaction thereof with a substrate and fluorescent properties of the enzymatic reaction product. Organic and inorganic polymers, both natural and synthetic can be employed as the solid support. Examples of suitable polymers include polyethylene, polypropylene, polybutylene, poly 4 methylbutylene , butyl rubber and other synthetic rubbers, silicone rubbers and silastic polymers, polyesters, polyamides, cellulose and cellulose derivatives such as cellulose acetate, nitrocellulose and the like , acrylates, methacrylates, vinyl polymers such as polyvinyl acetate, polyvinyl chloride, polyvinylidene chloride, polyvinyl fluoride, and the like , polystyrene and styrene graft copolymers, styreneacrylonitrile copolymers, rayon, nylon, polyvinylbutyrate, polyformaldehyde, etc. Other materials which can be employed as the insoluble support are silica gel, silicon wafers, glass, paper, insoluble protein, metals, metaleoids, metal oxides, magnetic materials, semi conductive materials, cermets or the like. In addition are included substances that form gels, such as proteins such as gelatins, lipopolysaccharides, silicates, agarose, polyacrylamides or polymers which form several aqueous phases such as dextrans, polyalkylene glycols alkylene with 2 to 3 carbon atoms or surfactants, e.g. amphophilic compounds such as phospholipids, long chain 12 24 carbon atoms alkyl ammonium salts and the like. A preferred diagnostic support of this invention comprises a polystyrene, styrene copolymers including styrene vinyl monomer copolymers such as styreneacrylo nitrile copolymers, or polyolefins such as polyethylene and polypropylene, and acrylate and methacrylate polymers and copolymers. The allergenic extract is preferably bound thereto by adsorption, ionic bonding, van der Waals adsorption, electrostatic bonding, other non covalent bonding. It can also be bound to the support by covalent bonding. A particularly advantageous support for this procedure comprises a microtiter plate having a plurality of wells. The well surface or plastic cup inserts therein can constitute the allergen support. The microtiter plate or the well inserts are opaque to light so that excitation light applied to a well or fluorescence generated in response thereto does not reach or influence contents of the surrounding wells. With this system each well can be employed as a test system independent of the other wells. Preferable the allergen is covalently bonded to a water soluble polymer having an affinity for the insoluble substrate. The allergen polymer product is then adhered to the insoluble substrate by non covalent bonding such as adsorption or absorption. Suitable water soluble proteins include bovine serum albumins of bovine BSA , human HSA , rabbit RSA , goat GSA , sheep SSA , horse HOSA , etc. serum gamma Globulin of the previously described animals and other animal proteins such as ovalbumin, fribrinogen, thrombin, transferin, glycoproteins, etc. Suitable water soluble amino acid polymers include polylysine, polyglutamic acid, polyalanine, polyhistidine, polymethionine, polyproline, etc. The allergen can be covalently bonded to water soluble protein or amino acid polymer with conventional coupling agents using methods which are known in the art. Preferably the coupling agent is a carbodiimide such as 1 ethyl 3 3 N,N dimethylaminopropyl carbodiimide hydrochloride and 1 cyclohexyl 3 2 morpholinoethyl carbodiimide methyl p toluenesulfonate. Other suitable coupling agents include aldehyde coupling agents having either ethylenic unsaturation such as acrolein, methacrolin, or 2 butenal or having a plurality of aldehyde groups such as glutaraldehyde, propanedial or butanedial. Other coupling agents include bifunctional NHS esters such as disuccinimidyl suberate, disuccinimidyl tartarate, In a procedure for non covalent adhesion of allergen to the surface of an insoluble support, the allergenic material can be applied to the surface of a support such as a polystyrene microtiter well or polystyrene individual insert well therefor, in an aqueous buffer solution. The surface is initially cleaned with a cleaning fluid such as methanol and dried. The buffered allergen solution is placed in the well or insert cup and incubated at room temperature until adsorption occurs, for example for from 2 to 18 hours and preferable from 16 18 hours, at temperatures of from 4 to 40 C and preferable from 20 to 26 C. The well is then rinsed with a weak saline solution and dried. Other procedures for covalently adhering allergens to insoluble supports are described by Ichiro Chibata in Preferred allergens are those described in European Patent Application 83110233.0, EP A 107832 . If the allergen is covalently bonded to a water soluble polymer having an affinity for the insoluble substrate and the water soluble polymer has antigenic properties, the first step is preferably preceded by a prerinse step. In the prerinse step, the support surface is contacted with an aqueous buffered rinse solution containing from 0.001 to 0.5 weight percent of the water soluble antigenic polymer to which the allergen is bound. This prerinse step is particularly advantageous when the water soluble polymer is water soluble animal protein because rinse residue will provide a sufficient amount of water soluble protein to conjugate with any of the protein specific IgG₄ which is present in the patient serum. The protein specific IgG₄ would otherwise complex with the protein in the insoluble support as a non specific IgG₄ binding, greatly reducing the sensitivity of the assay. A preferred rinse solution of this invention is an aqueous phosphate buffer solution having a phosphate molarity of from 0.01 to 0.05, a pH of from 6 to 8 and containing from 0.01 to 0.01 weight percent non ionic surfactant and from 0.0001 to 0.5 weight percent of the antigenic protein to which the allergen is coupled. Suitable non ionic surfactants include polyoxyethylene ethers BRIJ such as lauryl, cetyl, oleyl, stearyl, and tridecyl polyoxyethylene ethers polyoxyethylenesorbitans TWEEN such as polyoxyethylenesorbitan monolaurate, monopalmitate, monostearate, monoleate and trioleates and other polyoxyethylene ethers TRITON , for example. A preferred non ionic surfactant is octylphenoxypolyethoxy ethanol having 40 ethylene oxide units TRITON X 405, Rohm and Haas Company . The buffer solution is advantageously prepared from a reagent concentrate of the invention comprising from 0.005 to 2.5 weight percent of the animal protein corresponding to the animal protein to which the allergen is covalently bonded, from 0.5 to 5 weight percent non ionic surfactant, from 10 to 20 weight percent sodium chloride, from 0.5 to 5 weight percent stabilizer and sufficient phosphate salt to provide for a 0.02 to 0.05 M phosphate solution. The pH can be from 6 to 8. The preferred buffer concentrate contains about 0.5 weight percent of the animal protein, 0.1 weight percent TRITON X 405 non ionic surfactant, 17 weight percent sodium chloride, and 2 weight percent sodium azide, 0.01 M phosphate and has a pH of 7.4. After conjugation of serum IgG₄ with allergen adhering to the insoluble support has occurred, the patient serum is removed therefrom. Surplus liquid is removed and the solid surface is then rinsed with a suitable rinse solution such as that described above. The second step of the process of this invention comprises contacting the insoluble support with an anti IgG₄ antibody labeled with a fluorogenic enzyme. The incubation is continued for sufficient time to permit serum IgG₄ conjugated with allergen if any an the insoluble support to conjugate with the anti IgG₄ antibody. After incubation, the excess liquid is removed, and the surface of the insoluble support is rinsed with a weak saline solution as described above with respect to the first step to remove unconjugated antibody. Preferably the support is rinsed with the preferred rinse solution of this invention described above. Anti IgG₄ antibodies are available from many sources, and the methodology for producing them is well known and is described in several of the patents and publications cited above. The preferred antibodies are monoclonal antibodies. The technology for making monoclonal antibodies is well developed, and the procedures suitable for making monoclonal anti IgG₄ antibodies are described by D. Catty, et al in Antisera in Immunoassays with special Reference to Monoclonal Antibodies to Human Immunoglobulins , Fluorogenic enzymes and methods for bonding them to antibodies without impairing the ability of the antibody to selectively conjugate with antigen are well known in the art. Suitable enzymes and procedures for coupling them to antibodies are described in U.S. patent no. 4,190,496, for example the contents thereof being hereby incorporated by reference. The preferred fluorogenic enzymes and the suitable substrates corresponding thereto include horse radish peroxidase for which a suitable substrate is homovanillic acid or 4 hydroxy 3 methoxyphenylacetic acid, beta galactosidase for which a suitable substrate is 4 methylumbelliferyl beta D galactoside, alkaline phosphatase for which a suitable substrate is 4 methylumbelliferyl phosphate and other umbelliferyl phosphates such as 4 carboxyumbellifery phosphate, and umbelliteryl phosphate 4 carboxy alkylesters, etc. Examples of suitable procedures for enzyme labeling the anti IgG₄ antibody include carbodiimides, dialdehyde, and bifunctional coupling reagents as described in covalent linkage of allergen to water soluble polymer or periodate coupling where enzyme has glycoprotein moiety. The enzyme labeled anti IgG₄ antibody is applied to tile insoluble support in an aqueous solution. The solution preferably contains suitable salts and buffers to preserve the reactants and facilitate the conjugation reaction. For example, the solution can contain bovine serum albumin BSA , phosphate buffer solution PBS , and a mild surfactant such as a polyoxyethylene sorbitan ester employed in the rinse solutions described above. The rinse solutions described herein can also be used. A preferred solution of this invention comprises from 0.1 micrograms per ml to 5 micrograms per ml and preferably from 1 microgram per ml to 2 microgram per ml anti IgG₄ antibody in an aqueous phosphate buffered solution having a phosphate molarity of from 0.005 to 0.1 and preferably from 0.01 to 0.05 and a pH of from 6.0 to 8.0 and preferably 7.2 to 7.6. A critical ingredient in the anti IgG₄ solution is polyethylene glycol having molecular weights of from 1000 to 8000 and preferably from 2000 to 4000 in concentrations of from 1 to 8 and preferably from 2 to 6 weight percent. Polyethylene glycols greatly increase the speed and sensitivity of the reaction. Another important ingredient is a non ionic surfactant in concentrations of from 0.01 to 0.5 and preferably from 0.02 to 0.1 weight percent. Suitable non ionic surfactants include those described above with respect to rinse solutions, for example. A preferred non ionic surfactant is TRITON X 405. The surfactant surprisingly reduces the non specific background fluorescence signal in the assay. With the preferred anti IgG₄ solutions of this invention, the incubation time of the solutions with the insoluble support is temperature dependent. At temperatures of 18 to 40 C, incubation times of at least from 30 to 180 minutes can be used. The preferred temperatures are within the range of from 20 to 26 C, and at these temperatures, incubation times from 60 to 120 minutes can be employed. It should be appreciated that prolonged incubation times in any of the steps of this invention can reduce the efficiency of the process. Since rapid analysis is an objective of this invention, the lowest times which still yield the desired accuracy are preferred. The solid support is then rinsed to remove residual, unconjugated enzyme labeled anti IgG₄ antibody. The rinse solutions described above are suitable. The third step of the process of this invention comprises contacting the solid support with a solution of a substrate which undergoes chemical reaction in the presence of the fluorogenic enzyme for a time sufficient for fluorescent compounds to be formed. Suitable substrates and the enzymes they are converted by are known in the art and are described in U.S. patent no. 4,190,496, for example. Examples of substrates have been described hereinabove with respect to the corresponding fluorogenic enzyme. The solid is contacted with an aqueous solution of the substrate containing from 10 ² to 10 ¹⁰ molar and preferably from 10 ⁴ to 10 ⁵ molar concentrations of the substrate. Preferred additional reagents and buffers in the substrate solution include 2 amino 2 methyl 1 propanol buffer and magnesium chloride, for example. The substrate solution is incubated with the insoluble support for sufficient time for the fluorescent reaction product to form. At temperatures of from 18 to 40 C, incubation times of from 5 to 240 minutes can be used. Preferably, the temperature is within the range of from 20 to 26 C, and the incubation time is from 30 to 90 minutes. The equipment and procedures for determining the level of fluorescence in the substrate solutions are those conventionally employed in the art. The level of fluorescene is a function of the enzyme concentration on the insoluble support which is, in turn, a function of the allergen specific IgG₄ level in the patient serum. By comparing the fluorescence level with the levels measured by carrying out the procedure with control solutions containing known concentrations of the respective allergen specific IgG₄, the precise concentration of the corresponding IgG₄ antibody in the patient serum can be determined. Suitable fluorometers are the fluorometers by Perkin Elmer, American Instrument Company, and Turner Designs. The Allergenetics Fluorometer Allergenetics, Inc., Mountain View, California is preferred. This invention is further illustrated by the following specific but non limiting examples. Temperatures are given in degrees Centigrade and concentrations are given as weight percents unless otherwise specified. To a solution of timothy grass pollen allergen extract 3 mg ml was added 10 microliters of a 5 wt. bovine serum albumin BSA solution. After addition, the solution was kept at 4 C, and 5 mg of 1 Ethyl 3 3 N, N Dimethyl aminopropyl carbodiimide ECDI was added. The mixture was gently stirred at 4 C for 20 minutes. The additions of both BSA and ECDI were repeated three more times. The final mixture was allowed to stand at 4 C overnight to yield a conjugate of timothy grass pollen allergen covalently bonded to BSA. The timothy grass pollen allergens conjugate with BSA prepared in Example 1 was diluted in phosphate buffer, pH 8.5. To each microtiter well was added precisely 100 microliters of the diluted conjugate solution. The coating process was allowed to proceed at room temperature for 2 hours or overnight . At the end of the coating process, the liquid in each well was removed by aspiration. The wells were washed three times 3x200 microliters with a phosphate washing buffer obtaining sorbitol and TRITON X 405. The well thus coated can be used for assaying patient serum for timothy grass pollen allergen specific IgG₄ antibodies. The procedure of Example 1 was repeated, replacing the timothy grass pollen extract with the following allergenic extracts to yield microwells having the corresponding allergens adhering to the surface thereof. A microtiter plate well product of Example 1 to which a BSA conjugate of timothy grass pollen allergen is adhered is contacted with patient serum containing timothy grass pollen allergen specific IgG₄ and incubated for 2 hours. The serum is removed, and the well washed three times with a buffered rinse solution containing 0.85 wt. sodium chloride, 0.05 wt. TRITON X 405 and 0.1 wt. sodium azide preservative in a 0.01 aqueous phosphate buffer solution, pH 7.2. Serum IgG₄ specific antibody for timothy grass pollen allergen is conjugated to the microtiter plate well surface. The microtiter plate well is then contacted with 100 microliters of a solution of alkaline phosphatase conjugated anti human IgG₄ monoclonal antibody prepared according to a modified procedure of M. O Sullivan, et al, To the microtiter plate well is then added 100 microliters of a substrate solution containing 10 ⁴ M 4 methyl umbelliferyl phosphate in 1.25 M 2 amino 2 methylpropanol, pH 9.5 in deionized water containing 0.125 mM magnesium chloride and 0.1 wt. sodium azide. After 60 minutes, the fluorescence level is read with a fluorometer with the excitation at 365 nm and the reading at 450 nm. By comparing the reading with levels measured by repeating the procedure with control solutions having know concentrations of serum specific IgG₄ for timothy pollen allergen, the serum specific IgG₄ level in the patient serum is determined. The procedure of Example 3 is repeated replacing the microtiter plate well with the timothy grass pollen extract adhered thereto with the adherent microtiter plate well products of Example 2 having other allergens adhering thereto to determine the allergen specific IgG₄ levels in the patient serum specific to the respective allergens. A microtiter plate well product of Example 1 to which a BSA conjugate of timothy grass pollen allergen is adhered is rinsed for 5 minutes with a buffered rinse solution containing 0.85 wt. sodium chloride, 0.05 wt. TRITON X 405, 0.01 wt. BSA, and 0.1 wt. sodium azide preservative in a 0.01 aqeuous phosphate buffer solution, pH 7.2, and the surplus is removed. The prerinsed microtiter plate is then contacted with patient serum containing timothy grass pollen allergen specific IgG₄ and incubated for 2 hours. The serum is removed, and the well washed three times with the buffered rinse solution. The buffered rinse solution is prepared by diluting the following concentrate with 50 parts by volume distilled or deionized water to one part by volume concentrate Serum IgG₄ specific antibody for timothy grass pollen allergen is conjugated to the microtiter plate well surface. The microtiter plate well is then contacted with 100 microliters of a solution of alkaline phosphatase conjugated anti human IgG₄ monoclonal antibody prepared according to a modified procedure of M. O Sullivan, et al, To the microtiter plate well is then added 100 microliters of a substrate solution containing 10 ⁴ M 4 methyl umbelliferyl phosphate in 1.25 M 2 amino 2 methylpropanol, pH 9.5 in deionized water containing 0.125 mM magnesium chloride and 0.1 wt. sodium azide. After 60 minutes, the fluorescence level is read with a fluorometer with the excitation at 365 nm and the reading at 450 nm. By comparing the reading with levels measured by repeating the procedure with control solutions having known concentrations of serum specific IgG₄ for timothy pollen allergen, the serum specific IgG₄ level in the patient serum is determined. The procedure of Example 5 is repeated replacing the microtiter plate well with the timothy grass pollen extract adhered thereto with the adherent microtiter plate well products of Example 2 inclusive, having other allergens adhering thereto to determine the allergen specific IgG₄ levels in the patient serum specific to the respective allergens. In this example, allergen derived from Perennial Ryegrass is adhered to a well of a black, opaque polystyrene microtiter plate. The well is washed with methanol and dried. A 1 200 dilution of a 1 10 extract from Perennial Ryegrass Pollen a 1 10 extract contains about 100,000 allergy units by the FDA suggested standards in phosphate buffered saline having a pH of 8.5 is prepared, and 100 microliters of extract solution is pipetted into the well. After incubation for 2 hours or overnight at room temperature, the excess liquid is removed, and the well is washed 3 times with a 5 to 10 aqueous solution of sucrose or sorbitol and dried. The microtiter plate well to which perennial ryegrass pollen allergen is adhered, is washed 3 times with 0.9 sodium chloride rinse solution containing 0.05 TRITON X 405 Octylphenoxypolyethoxyethanol Patient serum of a patient suffering an allergy to perennial ryegrass pollen 100 microliters is added to the well and incubated at room temperature for 2 hours. The well is aspirated and washed 3 times with the above saline rinse solution. Then 100 microliters of solution containing one microgram of alkaline phosphatase labeled monoclonal anti IgG₄ antibody in a PBS solution containing 4 w v polyethylene glycol 4000 and 0.05 TRITON X 405 is added to the well and incubated for 2 hours at room temperature. The well is then aspirated and washed 3 times with the above rinse solution. Then 100 microliters of an aqueous 10 ⁴ M 4 methyl umbelliferyl phosphate solution containing 1.25 M 2 amino 2 methyl 1 propanol buffer and 0.125 mM magnesium chloride, pH 9.5, is added to the well and incubated for 60 minutes at room temperature. The fluorescence level is read with a fluorometer with excitation at 365 nm and the reading at 450 nm.