# RECOMBINANT FUSION PROTEINS

## Claims
Fusionsprodukt, das eine erste DNA Sequenz, die für eine durch den Blutkoagulationsfaktor Xa spezifisch spaltbare Aminosäuresequenz codiert, und eine zweite, an die erste DNA Sequenz fusionierte DNA Sequenz enthält, wobei die zweite DNA Sequenz für ein gewünschtes Protein oder Peptidprodukt codiert und natürlicherweise nicht an die erste DNA Sequenz fusioniert ist.

## Description
This invention relates to recombinant DNA technology and in particular to recombinant fusion proteins and to methods of cleaving such fusion proteins to yield foreign gene products in native form. In recent years, developments in recombinant DNA technology have made it possible to express a wide range of cloned foreign genes in host organisms such as bacteria and yeasts. Two main approaches have been employed. In one approach, expression of the foreign gene has been placed under the direct control of host expression control sequences, e.g. an High level expression in Also many proteins expressed in Furthermore, directly expressed foreign gene products, in particular when they are relatively small polypeptides such as some hormones, are often subject to proteolytic turnover within the host organism cells. The leads to very low levels of accumulation of the foreign gene product within the host cells. In an alternative approach, many eucaryotic proteins have been produced in large amount in However, such hybrid fusion proteins themselves are not normally suitable as end products, e.g. for clinical use, and it is necessary to cleave specifically the fusion protein to release the foreign gene product in native form. Specific single or double amino acid cleavage sites have been provided within fusion proteins at the junction between the EP A 0 035 384 The Regents of the University of California describes the use of specific cleavage linkers at the junction between host and foreign DNA sequences in the construction of recombinant DNA sequences which code for fusion proteins. These include cleavage linkers which code for extended specific cleavage sequences which comprise a sequence of at least two different amino acids which provide a specific enzyme cleavage site. The greater the number of amino acid residues in the specific cleavage sequence, the smaller is the probability of a similar sequence occurring within the foreign gene product amino acid sequence, and thus the lower is the risk of there being unwanted cleavage of the foreign protein. EP A 0 035 384 specifically describes the use of a cleavage linker having the sequence X Asp We have now devised improved cleavage linkers for use in the construction of recombinant DNA sequences which code for fusion proteins. Each linker codes for an enzyme cleavage site comprising a sequence of 4 different amino acids. These cleavage sequences are rarely found in other protein sequences and thus these cleavage sites will be suitable for use in the cleavage of a very wade range of recombinant fusion proteins. Furthermore, it appears that cleavage by the enzyme at these sites is not dependent upon overall three dimensional protein structure, as may be the case with other extended specific cleavage sequences, such as those which have been proposed previously, but is strictly sequence specific. Accordingly, the present invention provides a DNA sequence coding for a cleavage site which is specifically cleaved by blood coagulation factor X The invention also includes a vector comprising a DNA sequence coding for a cleavage site which is specifically cleaved by blood coagulation factor X Furthermore the invention includes a process for the production of a foreign gene product in native form in which host organisms are transformed with a vector comprising DNA sequences coding for the foreign gene product and at least one cleavage site which is specifically cleaved by blood coagulation factor X In the present description the phrase in native form refers to a polypeptide or protein comprising the amino acid sequence thereof without additional amino acid residues, e.g. additional N terminal amino acid residues such as an N terminal methionine amino acid residue or N terminal host protein amino acid residues. Also in the present description the term blood coagulation factor X Blood coagulation factor X is the proenzyme of a serine protease, factor X Factor X Work has also been carried out on the production of chromogenic substrates for use in the determination of Factor X It appears, therefore, that the structure required for recognition by factor X The DNA sequence of the invention may code for any cleavage site which is specifically cleaved by blood coagulation factor X The specific nucleotides present in the DNA will depend upon the particular amino acid sequence of the cleavage site and the genetic code. Thus, in view of the redundancy of the genetic code, a plurality of different DNA sequences may be used to code for a single cleavage site. A particular DNA sequence may be chosen having regard to host codon usage preferences and or to facilitate DNA manipulations, for instance to provide convenient endonuclease restriction sites. Examples of DNA sequences which code for the Ile Glu Gly Arg cleavage site are The vectors of the invention may comprise the DNA sequence coding for the factor X Preferably, however, the vectors of the invention comprise fusion protein expression vectors which characteristically contain a foreign gene fused to a DNA sequence coding for a factor X It will be appreciated that it may be necessary to add further nucleotide residues to the Factor X Expression of proteins in the host cells transformed with fusion protein expression vectors according to the invention leads to the production of fusion proteins comprising at least a desired foreign protein or peptide having linked thereto the Factor X Any foreign gene product may be produced using the fusion protein expression vectors of the invention. Such products may include eucaryotic, e.g. mammalian, polypeptides and proteins including enzymes, serum proteins, e.g. β globin, and peptide hormones and precursors thereof, e.g. calcitonin glycine. Any suitable host protein or part thereof may be used for fusion protein expression. Examples of suitable bacterial host protein genes include the lacZ, tufB, trpE, trpD, bla, λCII and CAT genes. The invention is widely applicable to the production of recombinant fusion proteins in host organisms in general including yeast and mammalian cells. However the invention is particularly applicable to bacterial host cells including In the process of the invention a fusion protein, expressed by host cells transformed with a fusion protein expression vector, is cleaved by treatment with activated factor X to yield the foreign gene product in native form. Any suitable blood coagulation factor X The proenzyme, factor X, may be readily prepared from human, bovine or other mammalian blood plasma. For instance, factor X may be isolated in a biochemically pure form and free from contaminating proteases after adsorption from bovine plasma on insoluble barium salts followed by a chromatographic step Fujikawa Generally it has been found that the amino acid sequence of the foreign gene product does not significantly affect the efficiency of cleavage. However it is believed, in view of results obtained with other serine proteases, that factor X Treatment with activated factor X cleaves the fusion proteins of the invention preferentially preferably substantially exclusively, at the peptide bond following the arginine amino acid residue of the factor X In certain circumstances, it may be found that the desired foreign protein contains an amino acid sequence which is susceptible to cleavage by Factor Xa. In such cases it may nonetheless be possible to use the process of the invention to obtain the foreign protein. For instance, the susceptible sequence in the foreign protein may be a kinetically less preferred sequence, such as one having Pro instead of Ile at P₄, or it may be buried in the foreign protein. In such cases, the rate at which the sequence in the foreign protein is cleaved may be significantly less than that at which the linker sequence is cleaved, and it may therefore prove possible to obtain substantially complete cleavage of the linker sequence without significant cleavage of the sequence in the foreign protein by controlling the reaction conditions or by restricting the time for which cleavage is carried out. The invention is further described by way of illustration only in the following examples. It will be appreciated that the invention is not limited to the specific examples described. The examples refer to the accompanying diagrams in which A phage vector M13mp11FX containing a DNA sequence coding for the Ile Glu Gly Arg recognition site for factor X All DNA manipulations were carried out essentially as described by Maniatis Two oligonucleotides dTACCCTCGATGGATC and dCATCGAGGGTAGGCC were synthesised by the phosphotriester method on a controlled pore glass support Sproat The Total cellular proteins from MZ 1 carrying pLcII, pLcIIβ and pLcIIFXβ with and without 2 hour induction were analysed on an 18 polyacrylamide SDS gel and visualised with Coomassie blue. The gel obtained is shown in Figure 2 in which the lanes are identified by the plasmid carried by the MZ 1 cells as follows MZ 1 harbouring expression plasmids pLcII, pLcIIβ and pLcIIFXβ were grown to A₆₀₀ 0.7 in 2 x TY medium Tryptone 16 g, yeast extract 10 g, NaCl 5 g per litre at 30 C and the cultures were halved and one half of each culture was mixed with an equal volume of 2 x TY which had been preheated to 65 C and grown at 42 C. The remaining halves were grown at 30 C as a control. The total cellular protein was extracted with an equal volume of phenol and spun down after precipitation with 5 volumes of ethanol Remaut Samples of CIIFXβ globin fusion protein were digested with factor X Lane a is the result obtained for undigested CIIFXβ globin and Lane g is human adult haemoglobin consisting of the α faster band and β slower band . Also, for the sake of comparison, Figure 3 contains results for CIIβ globin fusion protein, which lacks the factor X MZ 1 harbouring pLcIIFXβ was grown in 500 ml 2 x TY medium. At A₆₀₀ 0.7, the culture was mixed with 500 ml 2 x TY which had been preheated to 65 C and grown at 42 C. After 2 hours, cells were harvested, and the high salt precipitate was prepared Gilmer In order to obtain experimental evidence for the narrow substrate specificity of factor X In each experiment, 70 of the denatured protein substrate remained undigested by the time almost all of the β globin had been cleaved from the hybrid protein, indicating that each of these polypeptides 1000 amino acid residues in total could have been recovered as authentic proteins from hybrid proteins containing a Factor X Bovine serum albumin, human plasminogen, bovine pancreatic trypsin inhibitor and ribonuclease A were reduced and alkylated with iodocetic acid in the presence of 5 M guanidine hydrochloride and chicken core histone H2a H2b dimer was denatured by exposure to 1 M HCl. All six proteins were rapidly digested by trypsin and therefore partly or completely denatured under the conditions used for incubation with CII FX β globin fusion protein and factor Xa. Each protein was mixed in an equimolar amount of CII FX β globin fusion protein prepared as set out in Example 1 c and digested as set out in Example 1 d . A vector pCT 20210 was constructed which coded for expression of a chloramphenicol acetyltransferase CAT human calcitonin glycine hCT Gly fusion protein containing a factor Xa cleavage sequence IleGlu Gly Arg between the CAT and hCT Gly polypeptide sequences. As in previous Examples, DNA manipulations were carried out essentially as described by Maniatis The starting point for construction of the vector pCT 20210 was the vector pCT 2026 which codes for expression of a CATI Glu hCT Gly fusion protein. The construction of vector pCT 2026 is described in detail in GB A2 104 810. With reference to Figure 4, vector pCT 2026 was digested with Acc I and Bgl II to excise the DNA sequence coding for Glu and the amino acid residues 1 4 of hCT. The resultant plasmid DNA was isolated and ligated with an excess of the following oligonucleotides E.coli HB101 cells containing plasmid pCT 20210 were cultured at 37 C to the late exponential phase of growth in a 4 litre fermenter in supplemented mineral salts medium containing 20 µg ml chloramphenicol. The cells were harvested by centrifugation 1,000 rpm X 10 minutes . The cells were resuspended in 60 ml of 50 mM Tris HCl buffer, pH 8.0 containing 100 mM NaCl and 1mM EDTA 0.2 ml of PMSG solution 3.3 mg ml in ethanol and 21.4 mg of lysozyme were then added to the suspension. After 25 minutes 2 ml of 4 w v deoxycholate was added and the resultant viscous suspension was left to stand for a further 10 minutes. 0.6 mg of DNase 1 was added and the suspension was left to stand at room temperature until the viscosity had decreased markedly. At completion of this stage the suspension was centrifuged 11,000 rpm x 5 minutes , The fusion protein was found to be present predominately in the insoluble pellet fraction. However some of the CAT Xa hCT Gly fusion protein present in the soluble fraction was purified by CAT substrate affinity chromatography substantially as described for purification of CAT1 Glu hCT Gly in GB A 2 104 810. In addition, the pellet containing the major proportion of the CAT Xa hCT Gly fusion protein was further purified as follows. The pellet was washed with nine volumes of cold, buffered Triton X 100 solution 50 mM Tris HCl, pH 8.0, 10 mM EDTA, 0.55 v v Triton X 100 , 100 mM NaCl and recovered by centrifugation 11,000 rpm x 5 minutes . This wash procedure was then repeated twice. The resultant pellet was resuspended in 5 ml of the pH 8.0 Tris HCl suspension buffer as above. The fusion protein was checked for purity by SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and the remaining suspension stored at 20 C. The CAT Xa hCTGly fusion protein purified either from the soluble or insoluble fractions as described above is treated with bovine blood coagulation factor Xa substantially as described in Example 1 c to yield hCt Gly. Chicken myosin light chain cDNA was digested with Sau96, filled in with Klenow polymerase and cloned into the Stu I site of MP13mp 11 FX prepared as set out in Example 1 above to form M13 mp11 FX MLC. All DNA manipulations were carried out essentially as described by Maniatis The myosin light chain cDNA sequence was cut out from M13 mp11FX MLC together with the factor X CIIFX MLC fusion protein was produced at high level in The chicken myosin light chain cDNA was obtained as described by Reinach and Fischman, J Mol. Biol.,