# FACING MATERIAL FOR BUILDING AND METHOD FOR CONNECTING SAME

## Claims
Verkleidungselement für ein Gebäude, mit einem flachen, plattenförmigen Körper 10 , der am oberen bzw. unteren Ende einen oberen Einsteckteil 12 und einen unteren Aufsteckteil 14 aufweist, welche aus einem Stück derart geformt sind, dass sie auf der einen Seite des flachen, plattenförmigen Körpers 10 vorstehen, wobei der obere Einsteckteil 12 bzw. der untere Aufsteckteil 14 des flachen, plattenförmigen Körpers 10 jeweils wasserdicht in den unteren Aufsteckteil eines oben anschliessenden gleichen Verkleidungselementes bzw. auf den oberen Einsteckteil eines unten anschliessenden gleichen Verkleidungselementes steckbar ist, um die senkrecht übereinanderliegenden Verkleidungselemente miteinander zu verbinden, dadurch gekennzeichnet, dass

## Description
This invention relates to a facing member for a building, and more particularly to a facing member for a roof, an outer wall or the like in a building such as a housing. Such facing members can be vertically and laterally connected together to form an outer face of a building such as a roof, an outer wall or the like. A typical facing member which has been conventionally used for an outer wall of a building is disclosed in Japanese Utility Model Publication No. 53386 1983. The conventional facing member includes an elongate flat plate body which has water tight engaging portions formed at the upper and lower edges thereof in a manner to project from the flat plate body. The outer face of a wall of a building is formed by connecting a plurality of such adjacent facing members to one another in order in the downward direction through the engaging portions. However, the conventional facing member has an important difficulty that it is substantially impossible to effectively carry out the lateral connection between the adjacent facing members. In DE A 3 028 014, described in the preamble of claim 1, there is disclosed a facing member for a building of the type which comprises a flat plate body having an upper fit in section and a lower fit on section integrally formed at the upper and lower ends thereof respectively in a manner to project to one side of said flat plate body, wherein the upper fit in section and lower fit on section of the flat plate body is adapted to be respectively engaged in a water tight manner with the lower fit on section of an upper adjacent like facing member and the upper fit in section of a lower adjacent like facing member to connect the vertically adjacent facing members to one another. It is an object of the present invention to provide an improved facing member for a building which is capable of allowing the desired connection to be formed between laterally adjacent facing members as well as between vertically adjacent facing members. According to the present invention there is provided a facing member for a building of the type referred to above, characterised in that In an embodiment of the present invention said upper fit in section is formed so as to extend along the entire longitudinal direction of said flat body plate and said lower fit on section is formed in a manner to project from said flat plate body so as to be opposite to said flat plate body and extend along the entire length thereof, respectively In a further embodiment of the present invention said upper fit in section is formed so as to extend along the entire length of said flat body plate and said lower fit on section is formed in a manner to project from said flat plate body and extend along the entire length thereof, respectively In accordance with a still further embodiment of the present invention said upper fit in section is formed so as to extend along the entire length thereof and said lower fit on section is formed in a manner to project from said flat plate body and extend along the entire length thereof, respectively The present invention will be further illustrated, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Now, a facing member for a building and a method for connecting facing members according to the present invention will be hereinafter described with reference to the accompanying drawings. Figs. 1 and 2 illustrate a first embodiment of a facing member for a building according to the present invention. The facing member of the illustrated embodiment may be formed by bending a metal plate such as a painted steel plate or a plate formed of inflammable synthetic resin. The facing member includes a flat plate body 10. The flat plate body 10 has an upper fit in section 12 and a lower fit on section 14 respectively integrally formed at the upper and lower ends thereof in a manner to project to one side of the flat plate body 10. In the illustrated embodiment, the upper fit in section 12, as shown in Figs. 2 and 3, is formed along the entire length of the flat plate body 10, and is connected through an angled upper connection section 16 upwardly extending from the upper end of the flat plate body 10 to the upper edge or end of the flat plate body 10. Also, in the illustrated embodiment, the upper fit in section 12 comprises a rising portion 18 extending upwardly from the upper end of the connection section 16 to the upper edge or end of the flat plate body 10 and a substantially wave shaped portion 19 extending upwardly from the upper end of the rising portion 18. The lower fit on portion 14 of the flat plate body 10 is also formed along the entire length of the flat plate body 10 and is connected through a lower connection section 20 extending horizontally from the lower end of the flat plate body 10 to the flat plate body. The lower fit on section 14 is formed into a substantially inverted U shape of which the outer leg portion has a lower end 22 extending below the connection section 20. The lower connection section 20 may be formed to define a space between the flat plate body 10 and the lower fit on section 14 which is sufficient to arrange a padding therebetween. The facing member also has a plate like side fit in section 24 formed at one of the side ends of the flat plate body 10 in a manner to extend from the body 10. The side fit in section 24 is formed along the entire vertical portion of the flat plate body 10 and connected to the flat plate body 10 through a first side connection section 26 projecting at a short distance from the flat plate body 10. The side fit in section 24 is also connected at the upper end thereof to the upper fit in section 12 through the first side connection section, and the lower end of the fit in section 24 is positioned to be flush with the lower end of the flat plate body 10. In the illustrated embodiment, the lower fit on section 14 does not extend to the side fit in section 24. The flat plate body 10 is also formed at the other side end thereof with a side fit on section 28 of a substantially U shape in cross section. In the embodiment, the side fit on section 28 is formed at the inside of the flat plate body 10 and connected through a second side connection section 30 to the body 10 so as to be spaced therethrough from the body 10 at a small distance. Also, the side fit on section 28 is provided along the overall vertical direction of the flat plate body 10 as shown in Figs. 1 and 2 and in a manner to be interposed at the lower portion thereof between the flat plate body 10 and the lower fit on section 14 as shown in Fig. 2. In the illustrated embodiment, the side fit in section 24 and side fit on section 28 are respectively formed on the left and right sides of the flat plate body 10 when viewing from the inside of the body 10. However, it is a matter of course that the sections 24 and 28 may be positionally formed in such a manner opposite to that described hereinafter. Now, the manner of vertically and laterally connecting the facing member each constructed in the manner as described above to one another will be hereinafter described with reference to Figs. 1 to 7. The following description will be made in connection with the formation of an outer face of a wall of a building, however, it should be noted that the facing member is not limited to the use for such an outer face of the wall. Fig. 5 is a schematic sectional view showing the adjacent two facing members of the illustrated embodiment connected together through the side fit in and fit on sections 24 and 28, Fig. 6 shows the side fit in and fit on sections 24 and 28 fitted together which is viewed from the side opposite to Fig. 5 , and Fig. 7 is a schematic view showing the manner of fitting the side fit in and fit on sections with respect to each other. In Figs. 3 and 4, reference numeral 32 designates an inner layer material such as a gypsum board, a cemented excelsor board or the like. A first facing member 34 is fixed with respect to a support means 36 of a wall of a building by fixing the lower end of the inner wall of the lower fit on section 14 of the facing member 34 onto the support means by means of a suitable fixing means 37 such as a screw, a nail or the like. Then, another facing member 38 laterally adjacent to the facing member 34 is fitted at the side fit in section 24 thereof in the side fit on section 28 of the facing member 34 to position the fit in portion 24 of the facing member 38 on the lower connection section 20 of the facing member 34. This results in the side fit in section 24 of the facing member 38 being securely interposed between the upper and lower connection sections 16 and 20 in the vertical direction and the connection section 30 of the side fit on section 28 of the facing member 34 being abutted against the connection section 26 of the side fit in section 24 of the facing members 38, to thereby connect the facing members 34 and 38 together. Further connection between the facing members 34, 38 and other facing members is carried out in the same manner. The manner of vertically connecting facing members together will be described hereinafter by way of an example that lower facing members 40 and 42 are respectively connected to the upper facing members 34 and 38. First, the facing member 40 is fitted at the upper fit in section 12 in the lower fit on section 14 of the upper facing members 34, and then both facing members 34 and 40 are securely fixed by means of a fixing means 37. Then, as shown in Fig. 7, the facing member 42 is laterally connected to the facing member 40 by fitting the side fit in section 24 of the facing member 42 in the side fit on section 28 of the facing member 40 such that the facing member 42 is downwardly inclined at the right side thereof to position the facing members 40 and 42 with respect to each other, then fitting the upper fit in section 12 of the facing member 42 in the lower fit on sections 14 of the facing members 34 and 38 in the same manner as described above, and finally confirming the water tight fitting between the side fit in section 24 and the side fit on section 28 of the facing member 40 and that between the upper fit in section 12 of the facing member 42 and the lower fit on sections 14 of the upper facing members 34 and 38. As described hereinbefore, the facing members of the illustrated embodiment are adapted to be downwardly connected to one another to form an outer face of a wall of a building. Thus, it will be noted that the present embodiment allows members for connecting a scaffolding framework with a support means of a wall to be gradually downwardly disassembled corresponding to every formation of the downward connection between the facing members, to thereby ensure the safe connecting operation. Further, in the illustrated embodiment, the lateral connection among the facing members 34, 38 may be carried out with less labour irrespective of the length, because the side fit in section 24 of the flat plate body 10 of the facing member 38 is supported on the lower connection section 20 for the lower fit on section 14 of the facing member 34 when the side fitting section 24 of the facing member 38 is fitted in the side fit on section 28 of the facing member 38. In addition, when the side fit in section 24 of the facing member is fitted in the side fit on portion 28 of the adjacent facing member, it is securely held in the fit on portion because it is fixedly abutted at the upper and lower ends thereof against the upper and lower connection sections 16 and 20 of the adjacent facing member and at the first connection section 26 thereof against the second connection section 30 of the adjacent facing member. Furthermore, the lateral connection between the facing member is carried out utilizing the side fit in section and fit on section simple in structure which are provided at the both side ends thereof, thus,it will be noted that the facing member can be manufactured with ease. In the present invention, the joint between the laterally adjacent facing members is preferably covered at the inside thereof with a caulking member to be provided with more effective water tightness. For such purpose, it is more preferable than an elastic joint cover 46 is arranged to cover the joint in a manner to fit the side fit on section 28 therein, as shown in Fig. 5. Fig. 8 is a perspective view partly in section showing another embodiment of a facing member according to the present invention. In Fig. 8, the side fit in and fit on sections of a facing member are omitted for clarity in description. The embodiment shown in Fig. 8 includes a flat plate body 10 which has an upper fit in section 12 integrally formed at the upper end thereof along the overall length thereof through an upper connection section 16 extending from the upper end of the body 10. In the second embodiment, the upper fit in section 12 comprises a rising portion 18 extending upwardly from the connection section 16 and a slanting portion 46 extending downwardly from the rising portion 18. The slanting portion 46 is preferably bent at the lower end thereof to form a turned edge 48 to prevent the edge of the slanting portion 46 from injuring the fit on section 14 of an upward adjacent member. The flat plate body 10 is also formed at the inside of the lower end thereof with a lower connection section 20 and a lower fit on section 14 in turn. The facing member of the second embodiment has an advantage of being manufactured with ease and a relatively low cost, because the bending process is readily carried out. A third embodiment of a facing member according to the present invention is shown in Fig. 9. In Fig. 9, side fit in and fit on sections are omitted for clarity in description as in Fig. 8. The third embodiment is adapted to allow the vertically connected facing members to form a substantially continuous outer surface. For this purpose, a lower connection section 20 for connecting a lower fit on section 14 to a flat plate body 10 is constructed to extend upwardly from the lower end of the flat plate 10 body, to thereby abut the lower end of the flat plate body against the upper end of a flat plate body of a lower adjacent facing member. The lower connection section 20 is preferably formed to form a space of a suitable interval between the flat plate body 10 and the lower fit on section 14. This allows a suitable padding 50 such as glass wool or the like to be placed in the space to provide a formed wall with good heat and or sound insulating properties. The remaining parts of the third embodiment may be constructed in the substantially same manner as the first embodiment. The third embodiment constructed in the manner as described above can provide a formed wall with good appearance because the outer surface of the wall formed by the facing member of the embodiment is substantially flat and continuous. As can be seen from the foregoing, he facing member of the present invention is constructed in the simple manner that the side fit in section is formed at one end of the flat plate body so as to extend and project therefrom and the side fit on section is formed at the other end of the flat plate body thus, the lateral connection between the facing members may be readily carried out. It will thus be seen that the objects set forth above, among those made apparent from the preceding description, are efficiently attained and, since certain changes may be made in the above construction without departing from the scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims, it is intended that all matter contained in the above description and shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense. It is also to be understood that the following claims are intended to cover all of the generic and specific features of the invention herein described, and all statements of the scope of the invention which, as a matter of language, might be said to fall therebetween.