# Memory device.

## Abstract
An improved memory device operable at a high speed is disclosed. The memory device comprises memory cells arrayed in rows and columns, a row decoder for selecting the rows, a column decoder for selecting the columns, a shift register arranged in parallel with the column decoder, and control means for operatively enabling the shift register, in which consecutive access to a plurality of memory cells belonging to the same selected row can be performed from the column address designated by the column decoder.

## Claims
Claim A memory device comprising a memory cell array 11, 51 including a plurality of memory cells arranged in rows and columns, a plurality of address input terminals for receiving a plurality of column address signals Y address, AO to A7 , an output line Data input output, Data out , a first column decoder 15, 30, 55 for determining first output data from the data of said columns, and a shift register 15, SR, 55 coupled to said first column decoder and arranged in parallel therewith to serially read out data of the columns to said output line, the first one of the read out data being that determined by said first column decoder, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the memory device includes a second column decoder 14, 54 and that a first portion AO to A4 of said column address signals are supplied to said second column decoder 14, 54 to select a predetermined number 0 to L l in Fig. 4 of the columns, a second portion 31 in Fig. 4 AS to A7 in Fig. 15 of said column address signals being supplied to said first column decoder 15, 30, 55 to serially read out the data from the selected number of the columns.

## Description
MEMORY DEVICE The present invention relates to a memory device, and more particularly, to a semicot5ductor memory device fabricated on a semiconductor substrate. In semiconductor memories making use of insulated gate field effect transistors IGFEI , rrpresentatively, MOS semiconductor memories employing MOS transistors, memory capacity has been steadily increasing at a rate of twice per year owing to the rapid progress of the integration technique, especially fine patterning technique, in the recent years. Memories having storage capacities of 1K bits, 4K bits, 16K bits and 64K bits have been successively made commercially available. 256 K bit memories have been produced on the laboratory scale, and realization of 1 M bit memories is also expected in the near future.Moreover, owing to the progress of the circuit technique, a number of pins in a package has been decreased and a mount density of memory devices has been increased by multiple addressing technique detailed in United StatesPatent No. 3,969,706 and reduction in a number of power sources and an operation speed of a memory element itself has been raised.Thus, the usefulness of the memories has been enhanced. In view of such peculiar nature of the recent memories, 16 pin high speed 16 K bit memories have been employed in the main memory of the recent large scale or super large scale computers, and have largely contributed to the improvements in performance of computers. Between a main memory and a central processing unit hereinafter called CPO is interposed a buffer memory for comensating the difference in operation speeds therebetween and enhancing a processing speed of a CPU. Mutual data exchanges are generally affected an information block units having a fixed length of several fens bytes. In addition, contrivance in a system constructi on alled interleave has been made, in which in order to enhance a throughout of a memory, a memory card group forming a main memory is divided into a plurality of banks, and consecutive successive add esses are allotted to these banks.Thus, parallel processing is effected, and also improvements in operation speed are achieved by sho rtening of an average memory cycle period and by page mode operations. In any event, the pursuit of an operation speed of a system by employing such improved memory devices, is associated with a limit. Moreover, even if large capacity memories are adopted to enhance memory density in the system, since the handled information consists, in most case, of a series of consecutive fixed length data, a large capacity memory having a large number of words is sometimes inadequate for a system construction. A memory device of the type defined in the preamble part of claim 1 has been known from US A 39 30 239. In thie prior artçm7emozry a shift signal for controlling the shift operations of the shift register for serially selecting the columns is supplied from the outside of the memory by way of a terminal, which must be provided in addition to the terminals receiving row and column strobe signals.This undesirably increases the number of terminals occopied on the semiconductor ship and also necessitates an independent control structure provided outside the memory for generating the shift signal. Furthermore, as the shift register controls the transfer of a read out signal through activation of a selected switching element, a predetermined period of time will elapse from the operation of the shift register to the time that a read out signal appears at an output terminal. This imposes a limitation on the operation speed in the consecutive selection of columns by the shift register. It is therefore an object of the invention to provide a semiconductor memory of the aforementioned type wherein consecutive column selection can be obtained with high speed, particularly for accessing a series of consecutive addresses having an arbitrary or particular lengths, and where this high speed access can be obtained without requiring, a part from the row and column strobe signals, a further shift signal supplied from the outside. According to the invention this object is solved by a memory device as defined in the claim. According to the invention, a first portion of the column address signals selects a limited number of the column lines by means of an additional column decoder and a second portion of the column address signals determines one of the selected comlumn lines by means of the first column decoder, whereby the dater of the selected column lines are serially outputed, starting from that of the determined one, by the shift register. The present invention is particular applicable to a memory device of the type employing a plurality of pairs 110 buses. Information appearing at part of the columns is electrically transmitted to a plurality of first bus lines responsive to a part of the column address information, and then the first bus lines are consecutively selected one by one by means of a shift register to be electrically coupled to a second bus line.This means that at the time of shift operation of the shift register the first bus lines have already been provided with the information from the selected columns and the informations on the first bus lines are sequentially transferred to the second bus line.Accordingly, high speed consecutive column address selection can be achieved because the transition time for transfering the information from the selected row to the thirst bus line is negligible and does not become a parent from the outside. The essence of the present invention resides in that a shift register is assembled in a column decorder in a two phase clock multi address type RAM and it is made possible to access to memory cells allotted with çonsecutive column addresses at a high speed by effectively utilizing the shift function of this shift register. Since in the process of access in a practically used system the probability of accessing to consecutive addresses is very high and the occurence of such accesses is also extremely high, owing to the above described memory structure the memory device according to the present invention can achieve greatly remarkable effects and advantages as compared to the heretofore known RAM. More particularly, in the memory device according to the present invention, upon RASICAS cycles, at first any arbitrary address information is taken in, and as soon as a memory cell is accessed, Y address information is taken in a shift register.Thereafter, when the operation transfers to a page mode relying upon only the CAS clock, a shift clock is generated as synchronized to the CAS clock only, and thereby shift of the Y address taken in during the RAS CAS cycles is commenced. The shift of the address information controlled by the shift register is effected for each bit in response to a series of shift clock pulses generated in the respective cycles of the CAS clock. As a result, in the access to the memory in such a page mode, always consecutive addresses can be accessed without the Y address information obtained by being taken in through a Y address buffer as is the ca e with the prior art memory, and the time required for obtaining the Y address information can be completely eliminated. Therefore, the present invention can bring about remarkable effects and advantages that quite navel functions which were not present in the page mode in the prior art are produced and high speed access is made possible. Moreover, even in the case of not employing a page mode, the functicws. of the heretofore knownRAM are not deteriorated at all. The above mentioned and other objects, features and advantages of the present inventIon will become more apparent by reference to the following description of preferred embodiments of the invention taken in conjunction with the accompanyqing drawings, wherein Fig. 1 is a block diagram showing one basic construction of the memory device according to the present invention, Figs. 2 is a block diagram showing another basic construction of the memory device according to the present invention, Fig. 3 is a block diagram showing a drive system for a shift register in the memory device illustrated in Fig. 1, Fig. 4 is a block diagram showing a drive system for a shift register in the memory device illustrated in Fig. 2. Fig. 5 is a block diagram showing a construction of a decoder associated with a shift register, Fig. 6 is a circuit diagram showing a detailed construction of a decoder associated with a shift register employing a four phase drive system, Fig. 7 is a waveform diagram showing a four phase clock to be used in the circuit shown in Fig. 6, Fig. 8 is a block diagram showing a construction of a decoder associated with a shift register adapted to be driven by a two phase clock, Fig. 9 is a block diagram showing a memory drive system employing a decoder associated with a shift register adapted to be driven by a two phase clock, Fig. 10 is a circuit diagram showing the construction of the memory drive system shown in Fig. 9 in greater detail, Fig. 11 is a waveform diagram showing operation waveforms in the circuit shown in Fig. 10, Fig. 12 is a schematic block diagram showing a construction of a timing generator in the case where one preferred embodiment of the present invention employing a four phase drive shift register is applied to the conventional multi address type RAM in the prior art, Fig. 13 is a waveform diagram showing timing waveforms generated by the timing generator shown in Fig. 12, Fig. 14 is a block diagram showing a timing generator in one preferred embodiment of the present invention wiich employs a twophase shift register, Fig. 15 is a block diagram of the memory device according to the present invention as applied to a 16 pin multi address type 64 K words X I bit , Fig. 16 is a schematic Zan view showing an arrangement of pins in the 16 pin RAM shown in Fig. 15, and Figs. 17 a and 17 b are waveform diagrams illustrating a difference in timing waveforms between the heretofore known page mode cycles and novel shift mode cycles in the novel type of RAM showninflg. 15. In the followings, the present invention will be described in greater detail with reference to the accompanying drawings, and at first, a basic structure of a memory device according to the present invention willbe explained with reference to Fig. 1, in which one example of a RAM of M rows X N columns words X 1 bit is illustrated. The present invention can be practiced in any type ofRAM s employing any multi address system, whether the RAM may be static type or dynamic type, and in the latter case whether theRAM may employ a single phase clock multi address system or a two phase clock multi address system. In the following description, it is assumed that the RAM employs a too phase clock multi address system.In the RAM, memory cells are arrayed in a matrix 11 of M rows X N columns, and the row and column of the matrix 11 are selected by an X decoder 12 and a Y decoder 14, respectively. To the X and Y decoders 12 and 14 are fed address data from X and Y address buffers not shown . When one decoder output among M decoder outputs of the X decoder 12 is energized, one row of word line coupled to this selected decoder output is selected and energization is simultaneously made to N memory cells connected to this selected word line, so that the data stored in these memory cells are transmitted to N sense amplifiers. The Y decoder 14 has the function of selecting one of the N memory cells selected according to the X address and carrying out switching to an input output circuit. Thus, externally the memory device looks like a RAM of M rows X N columns words X 1 bit. Furthermore, the Y decoder 14 has a shift register assembled therein. This shift register has the function of taking in and temporarily holding the Y address information determined in the first RAS CAS cycle, and carrying out transfer bit by bit in response to a transfer clock generated in synchronism with the CAS clock only when the memory device is put in a page mode controlled only by the CAS clock. Accordingly, generation of a new address is effected by the shift register assembled in the Y decoder without effecting the transfer of address information from the address buffer to the Y decoder by the action of the address buffer, so that access to the BM can be made faster than in the heretofore known page mode.It is a matter of course that when theRAM does not operate in the page mode, it can achieve exactly the same function as the conventional RAM. Another basic construction of the memory device according to the present invention is illustrated in Fig. 2. In this modified construction, the address signals fed from the Y address buffer are divided into two parts, and one part of the address signals is fed to a Y decoder 14 to select L bit data among the N bit data for the memory cells selected by ie X address and to transfer an inputloutput switch 13 for transmitting the respective L bit data to L pairs of I O f buses. The other past of the address signals is fed to anotherY decoder 15 provided with a shift register function to select one arbitrary pair among the L pairs of I O buses.Furthermore2 when the operation is switched to a page mode, the shift register is operated by shift clock pulses which are generated each time the CAS clock pulse is inplt thereto to successively select one bus pair among the L pairs of I O buses which were selected according to theY address information that was decided in the first RAS CAS cycle and taken into the Y decoder 14 , According to this system, access can be started from any address among the L bit addresses, and any bits of consecutive addresses can be accessed so long as the number of bits is smaller than L. In addition, as a matter of course, it is possible to access to L bits which is larger than L bits, provided that the condition of L N is fulfilled.The modified circuit construction illustrated in Fig. 2 is not different at all in the basic operations from the first preferred embodiment described previously with reference to Fig. 1. Fig. 3 shows the first preferred embodiment in Fig. 1 in greater detail, in which a Y decoder 20 associated with a shift register YSR, single transistor type memory cells MC and sense amplifiers SA. A simple register operation will be described in the following. At the trailing edge of the RAS clock the X address signal is latched, and when the X address buffer operates, address binary codes are produced. These signals are fed to the X decoder, in which one decoder output from one decoder unit is selected among theM decoder outputs. As a result of the selection of the X decoder, one word line is selected, hence memory cells connected to the selected word line are energized, and subsequently the memory cell informations are transmitted to sense amplifiers SA to be amplified.Thereafter, at the trailing edge of the GAS clock a Y address signal 21 is latched, and thereafter a series of operations occur sequentially in the Y address buffer not shown and the Y address decoder 20. Thus, one bit selected by the Y decoder 20 among theN bit memory cell information selected by the X decoder, is transferred to an input output bus I O via transfer gates TF1 andTF2. With regard to the decision for selection by the decoder, normally design is made such that in the memory circuit an internalMOS high level logic level of 1 may appear for a selected decoder unit, while an internal MOS low level logic level of û may appear for an unselected decoder unit.Accordingly upon decision for selection by the Y decoder ZO, the N bit Y decoder 20 takes the state where only one decoder unit of one bit presents 1 l and the remaining decoder units present 0 , and this state is taken in and held by the shift register YSR in the first RAS CAS cycle. Thereafter, when the operation in switched to a page mode, a shift clock synchronized with the CAS clock is generated, and subsequently, the shift register YSR starts transfer of data one bit by one bit.Thereby the selection and unselection in the Y address decoder are determined only by the data held in the shift register YSR, and hence so long as only thetiming of the transfer in response to the shift clock is well regulated, the operation 9f the Y address buffer can be omitted, so that the proposed novel decoder construction can achieve remarkable effects in the shortening of the access time in the heretofore known page mode. Fig. 4 shows the construction of te Y decoder 15 associated with a shi t register SR included in the arrangement shown in Fig. 2.This Y decoder IS selects one of L pairs of input output busesI O0, I O0 I OL 1, I OL 1 to connect it to a pair of data bus D I O, DIJ . The function of the shift register SR itself is not different at all frorn that of the shift register SR shown in Fig. 3, and basically the operations of these shift registers are exactly the same.Reference symbols TFA and TFB designate transfer gate transistors controlled by a decode output YEO. According to the above mentioned system, since the memory cell information has been already transferred to the L pairs of input output bases in accordance with the Y address information taken in, at the firstRAS CAS cycle, in the subsequent page mode the data transfer time to the input output bus becomes unnecessary in contrast to the system according to the previously described embodiment, and hence this modified embodiment has the merit that the access time in a page mode is further shortened. Fig. 5 shows a circuit construction of a decoder associated with n bit shift register SRo, SRn l to be employed according to the present invention. Generally, a decoder for a MOS dynamic RAM employs a NOR logic structure. With regard to the shift registers, those relying upon a two phase clock system or a four phase clock system are generally used, and the shift register can be constructed by employing either one of the above clock systems. The register of the four phase clock system has such advantages that various clocks can be generated and also any clock suitable for the use can be generated because a clock generator is provided within the device and that a power consumption is generally small. The following description will be made in connection to the case where the register of the four phase clock system is employed. A four phase drive register operates generally to repeat the cycle consisting of take in, evaluation, hold and transfer of data. Accordingly, in the case of incorporating the shift register in the decoder circuit, it is only necessary to drive the register by providing a control circuit which takes n data into the register after the decision by the decoder and which generates a group of four phase clocks 1 4 after commencement of the next memory cycle and before the next decision by the decoder, More particularly, the decoder associated with the shift register provided according to the present invention operates in the following manner.When the address decoder unit Do is selected in the first RASICAS cycle, the NOR output node of the decoder unitDo becomes 1 , and all the remaining decoder units D1 Dn l become 0 . Thereafter, the data at the outputs of the respective NOR gates D0 Dn l are latched by the corresponding stages SRo SRn l of the shift register. In this instance, only the column select signal YEO is made selective level Aiile the remaining column select signal YE1 YEn l are kept at non selective level. Therefore, data amplified by a sense amplifier associated to the column select signal YEO is transferred to input output bus lines through transfer gates such as denoted as TF1 and TFZ of Fig. 3.Subsequently, when the operation is switched to a page mode, the drive of Y address buffer is inhibited and the all the NOR gates Do Dn 1 are disenabled thereby to make all the NOR output nodes in a floating state. At the same time, a set of shift register drive clocks 61 64 are generated in synchronism with the energization of CAS, so that the shift register starts its shift operation. In this shift operation, selective level latched by the stage SRO is transferred to the subsequent stage SR1 of the shift register. Thus, the column select signal YE1 is energized. In this instance, the stage SRO is changed to the non selective level by the data shift from the stage gnd and the other stages SR2 SRn l remain non selective level.The mentioned shift operation of the shift register is continued per each of the energization of CAS. Thus, the selective level is shift from the stage SRO towards the stage SRn,l one bit by one bit, and the column shift signal is energized from YEO to YEn l, step by step. Here if provision is made such that the clock in charge of transfer among the shift register drive clock group dl 64 1 may be generated at the same time with the start of the CAS clock, then a remarkable effect can be expected in shortening the heretofore known page mode access time because the time required for driving the address buffer in the prior art can be omitted.Furthermore, since it is clear that the decoder would access to the next address in the next page mode cycle, it is also possible to make provision such that the NOR mode of the Y decoder has been decided upon inputting the CAS clock, and hence it is possible to achieve further high speed access. Fig. 6 shows one practical example of a decoder in which a four phase drive shift register is assembled, and the operation of the decoder will be explained hereunder with reference to the shift register drive clock waveforms illustrated in Fig. 7. It is assumed now that in the first RAS CAS cycle, a Y address decoder unit Do has been selected according to the Y address information.Accordingly, the NOR nodes of the respective decoder units take 1 level for the decoder unit Do and 0 level for the decoder units Dl , and the information of these levels serve as input information to the shift register. At this moment, when a clock 61 comes in, transistors Q3 included in the respective shift register stages SRo SRX are turned ON, so that a transistor Q1 in the register stage SRo is turned ON and charges a capacitor C2. However, the transistors Q1 in the other register stages SR1 SRn 1 are turned OFF Also a transistor Q3 in the register stage SRO is turned ON and charges a capacitor 03. when a clock 62 comes in, as the transistors Q1 and Q2 both become ON, the charge on the capacitor C3 is discharged through the transistors Q1 and Q2, and hence the gate of a transistor Q4 becomes the ground potential. In addition, a transistor Q6 is turned ON and charges a capacitor C. when a clock 63 comes in, since the transistor Q4 is held OFF because of the ground potential at its gate, the charge on the capacitor C5 flows into the capacitor C4 through the transistor Q5, so that the voltage across the capacitor C5 is maintained at a value determined by the capacitance ratio between the capacitors C4 and Cs. The capacitance ratio between the capacitors C4 and C5 is set at such value that the transistor Q7 can be well turned ON.Then the transistors Q7 and Q9 are turned ON, so that the capacitorsC6 and C7 can be charged. When a clock 4 comes in, a transistor Q8 is turned ON, and the transistor Q7 is held ON because its gate is maintained at a high potential by the charge stored on the capacitor Cs, so that the charge on the capacitors C6 and C7 is discharged through the transistors Q7 and Qg, and the potential on the capacitor C7 is brought to the ground potential.In addition, provision is made such that the NOR node of the decoder unit D1 may be precharged before the clock dq comes in. As described above, by means of the four phase clocks the outputs of then decoder units Do Dn l have been taken in as input information of the n shift register stages SRo SRn l and have been transferred to just before the register stages corresponding to the decoder units at the next addresses. Subsequently to the firstRAS CAS cycle, when the operation is switched to a page node controlled only by the CAS clock, the operation of the address buffer is inhibited. Only the information taken in and held in the preceding cycle is transferred to the next shift register stages as controlled by the transfer clock 611 and thereby the state of the decoder is determined.In the case of accessing to consecutive addresses in a memory device in a page mode, the association of a shift register with a decoder allows to omit the operation of the address buffer in lte above described manner, and therefore it becomes possible to provide a quite novel memory device having a highly excellent performance which was not found in the heretofore known page mode.While the above description was made in connection to one example employing a shift register driven by four phase clocks, the present invention can be realized even by employing a shift register driven by two phase clocks, and whatever type of circuit construction of a shift register could be employed. In Fig. 8 is illustrated one example of a decoder having a shift register function according to a two phase clock system, and a practical circuit construction of the decoder is shown in Fig. 9.In Fig. 8, a decoder unit Do has a NOR gate construction in which address binary signals are input in a selected combination. A latch circuit LAo is activated by a clock dl and holds a decoder output YEo, Subsequently, in synchronism with a clock 62 the decoder output YEO held by the latch circuit LAO is transmitted to a gate of a pull up transistor 83 in the next shift register stage SR1 via a transistor Q21 and is also applied to a reset transistor Q82 of the latch circuit LAo to reset the latch circuit LAO.In this way, the output of the shift register SR SRL 1 is shifted in synchronism with the clocks s52 one stage by one stage for each period of the clocks. In Fig. 9, the basic construction of the decoder associated with a shift register shown in Fig. 8 is applied to an I O bus pair selector circuit for a memory circuit having a plurality of I O bus pairs which is explained with reference to Fig. 4. Transistors QA and QB for producing transmission signals on the basis of the decoded information YEi stored at the latch circuit output node upon transfer of the decoded information to the next decoder stages in responce to a second clock 6T after the decoded information has been taken into the latch circuits in response to a first clock wL, are provided as two separate independent transistors, one QA resetting the selected decoder unit output node to the ground potential immediately after commencement of the transfer, the other QB selectively charging the next stage decoder unit output node. In the circuit of the former QA signal is provided a transistor QD for resetting the raised potential at the node Ro to the ground potential in response to the clock dL immediately after the transfer of the decoded information in response to the clock ssT. Thereby, improvements have been made in the operation margin for the shortening of a cycle in a consecutive access mode, that is, in a page mode. Normally, clocks taking charge of principal functions such as latch transfer, etc. have their operation amplitudes set at the power supply level. However, since the transfer operation in response to the clock r5T according to the present invention is effected during the reset period of the CAS in the consecutive access mode, if the reset period of the CAS becomes extremely short, the selective charging will become so insufficient that the potential at the output sode of the next stage decoder unit cannot be raised sufficiently.Therefore, there arises a risk that a non selection condition of the decoder may be generated. Therefore, in order to overcome this shortcoming, the well known boot strap effect is utilized, upon potential rise of an information transmission signal the potential rise is effected quickly by this acceleration effect to attain a sufficient potential in a short period, and thereby the operation margin has been further improved. On example of such improved circus is shown in Fig. 10. The operation of the above referred embodiment of the present invention illustrated in Fig. 10 will be described in detail with reference to the timing wave forms appearing in the operation as illustrated in Fig. 11. While a 8 bit construction is employed in the following description of the operation, it is obvious that upon practicing the present invention the number of bits is not limited to 8 bits, and either increase or decrease of the number of bits would not bring about any disadvantage in the basic operation of the illustrated embodiment. In general, a decoder for a RAM employs a NOR logic construction.In Fig. 10, each of decoder units DoS D1 .... is composed of three transistors Q1 to Q3 which are OR connected for address binary codes and a load transistor Q4 subjected to control by a clock PYD. when address information has been taken in the first RAS CAS cycle, address binary codes are generated by an address buffer, and before the address binary codes are transmitted to the address decoder, the clock PYD transfers from 1 level to 11011 level, and thereby precharge is completed. Thereafter, depending upon the received address binary codes, decision by the address decoder is effected. When the decoder unitDo has been selected, the NOR output node NOR0 of that decoder unit Do is maintained at 1 level, and the NOR output nodesNOR1 NOR7 of the other unselected decoder units D1 D7 all transfer to 0 level.In response to a subsequently produced clock a anode YEO is raised via transistors Qs and Q6 transfer gate transistors Q7 and Q8 are controlled by the potential on the node YEO, and thereby the information on the selected I O bus pair I Oo, I Oo is transmitted to the data bus pair D I O, D IZO. During a normalRAS CAS cycle, the clock ZI, is synchronized with the clock adapted to control the transfer gate transistors for transmitting the memory cell information amplified by the sense amplifiers on the basis of an output of another decoder, then provision is made such that these clocks may rise almost at the same time as that the clock 6L may not precede, and thus contrivance is made such that the increase of an access time during the RAS CAS cycle may not be prevented. In addition, the same clock 2 also takes charge of latching theY address information during the RAS CAS cycle. More particularly, a two stage dynamic inverter connected at a predetermined parameter ratio which consists of transistors Qg to Q12 forms a latch circuit with the aid of the drive by the clock WLt so that the decoded address information is stored at a node marked . The basic operation of this latch circuit is as follows. It is now assumed that the decoder unit Do has been selected in the RAS CAS cycle.Accordingly, the NOR output nodes of the respective decoder units are at logic 1 level for the decoder unit D0 and at logic 0 level for all the decoder units D1 27, and there logic levels serve as input information for the shift register. After the decision by the respectiere decoder units, when the clock 6L has been produced, the shift register stage SRO connected to the selected decoder unit Do starts a latch operation.In response to the information 1 fed from the selected decoder unit Do, the transistor Q10 is turned ON, so that a node marked is brought to 0 level as decided by a given parameter ratio between the transistors Qg and Q10 in response to this 0 level the transistor Q12 is turned OFF, and the node is charged up to the level of VDD VT VT being a threshold voltage of the MOS transistor because the transistor Q11 controlled by the clock WL is turned ON. The level of the clock 6L is selected at theVDD level in order to raise the charge up level of the node QB as high as possible. Even in the case where normal RAS CAS cycles continue, this latch circuit can latch or renew the selection or unselection information of the decoder unit without affecting the decoder unit at all. More particularly, in the case where the decoder unit Do is selected in the first RAS CAS cycle and subsequently another decoder unit is selected in the next RAS CAS cycle, the potential change at the decoder information storing node g in the shift register stageSRO is as follows. At first, when the decoder unit Do has been selected, the subsequently produced latch clock I, starts a latch operation in response to the selection, and the node g is charged up to the level of VDD VT.When the decoder unit Do has become unselected in the next RAS CAS cycle, the node NOR0 becomes O level and turns the transistor Q10 OFF, so that the node QA is charged up to the level of VDD VT by the clock ssL. Thereafter, immediately the transistor Q12 is turned ON, and hence it discharges the charge stored at the node. Even if a discharging transistor subjected to control by the clock PYD is provided between the node g and the ground potential and the discharge of the stored charge at the node is effected by this discharging transistor upon each resetting of theRAS CAS cycle without relying upon the latching clock dr in the next cycle, the basic operation of the above mentioned shift register would not be deteriorated. In addition, at this moment, in the shift register stage SR1 connected to the other unselected decoder unit D1, for example, a transistor Q lo is turned OFF and a transistor Q121 is turned ON, so that the charge at the decoder information storing node i is held discharged by the clock dLa and thus 0 level can be maintained. So long as the RASICBS cycles continue, the latch and renewal operations of the decoded information would be carried out within the shift register, but thereafter if the operation is switched to a coni ecutive access mode, that is, to a page mode controlled only by the CAS clock, then the transfer clock 6T is generated immediately after the resetting of the CAS to commence the transfer operation during the reset period of the CAS. Let us now consider the case where the decoder unit Do is selected and the other decoder units D1 D7 are kept unselected in the RAS CAS cycle just prior to the switching to a consecutive access mode, that is, a page mode, and thereafter the operation is switched to the consecutive access mode. At this moment, the decoded information is latched by the clock , in the RAS CAS cycle, so that the node 23 in the shift register stage SRO is held at I level, while the nodes eorresponding to the node QB within all the other shift register stages including the node within the shift register stage SRI are held at O level.When the transfer clock dT produced immediately after resetting of the CAS con.es in, since the node is held at 1 level a transistor Q17 is turned ON and commences to charge up a boot strap capacitor CBO, Since the clock ssT is applied to the drain of the transistor Q17 owing to the boot strap effect by the drain gate parasitic capacitances of the transistor Q17 and a transistor Q14 whose gate is connected to the node QB, when the clock wT rises the potential at the node rises from VDD VT up to a level higher than the power supply level VDD, and thereby accelerates the charging of the boot strap capacitor CBO through the transistor Q17 The charged level and charging time of the charging of the boot strap capacitor CBo through the transistor Q17 are controlled respectively by a conductance ratio between transistorsQ19 and Q20 and a delay circuit constructed by transistors Q23 Q26. After an appropriate delay time decided by the parameters of the delay circuit has elapsed, that is, when a node rises in response to rise of the clock wT and a node transfers from the level ofVDD VT to O level in response thereto, the transistor Q20 is turned OFF and opens a node 0C to which one end of the boot strap capacitor CBo is connected so that the potential at the node QC can rise, and hence a node PSYO commences to rise quickly exceeding the power supply level owing to the well known boot strap effect, turns a transistor Q27 ON and thereby charges a NOR output node NOR1 of the decoder unit D1 which is adjacent to the decoder unit Do selected during the RAS CAS cycle. The transistor Q22 acts the role of switching the potential at the node from 1 level to 0 level to turn OFF the transistor Q17 for the purpose of preventing reverse flow of charge from the node PSYo to the clock dT caused by the turning ON of the transistorQ17 when the node PSYo is raised to a potential higher than the power supply level by the generation of the boot strap effect. Since the node OC rises up to the power supply level in accordance with the potential rise at the node PSYOI the transistor Q21further promote the potential change at the node QB which is caused by the turning ON of the transistor Q22 The transistor Q18 causes the stored charge on the boot strap capacitor CB to be discharged by means of the latch clock 6L which is generated during an activation period of a consecutive access mode to which the operation is switched after transfer of decoded information during the reset period of the CAS, and thereby switches the potential at the node PSYO to 0 level.On the other hand, in the shift register stages SRI SR connected to the unselected decoder units all the decoded information storing nodes including, for example, the node in the shift register stage SRI, are maintained at 0 level. Accordingly, transistors Q141 and Q17 are held OFF, charging of the boot strap capacitor caused by application of a transfer clock 6T is not effected, and potential rise at the node PSYI cannot be observed.As described above, owing to the application of a transfer clock WT, the decision of either selection or unselection of decoder units in a consecutive access mode is effected according to a quite novel system not found in the prior art, that is, it is effected by selective charging of decoder NOR output nodes by means of a transfer clock The transistor Q14 acts the role that upon transfer of decoded information to the next decoder stage controlled by the clock ssTs it raises the potential at a node QF, and in response thereto it turns ON the transistor Q15 to switch the selection information of the preceding decoder stage of 1 level to 11011 level and to turn the selected decoder unit to an unselected state.The transistor Q16 restores the potential at the node which has been switched to 1 level at this moment, to 0 level during the activation period in preparation for the next cycle. In the unselected decoder units, since selective charging by the nodes PSYi i 0 7 is not effected in this consecutive access cycle, the NOR output nodes of the unselected decoder units become floating 0 potential, hence becomes liable to be influenced by external noises or the like. Hence, there is a risk of bringing about multiple selection of the decoder units. The transistor Q13 has the function that upon unselectionof a decoder unit, it feeds back the output of the dynamic inverter consisting of the transistors Qg andQ10 which operate in response to 11011 level at the decoder NOR output node, receives the logic 1 level at the node A which has risen in potential, and thereby fixedly holds the decoder NOR output node at the ground potential.In this way, the flip flop formed by the transistor Q10 and the transistor Q13 by feeding back the potential at the output node of the inverter, stably maintains the NOR output node of the unselected decoder at the ground potential owing to the fast that the node is charged in each cycle by the clock ssL and thus held at the logic 11111 level, and thereby serves to prevent occurrence of multiple selection. Here, for the purpose of assuring smooth operation of the Rip Rop when the decoder unit switches from the unselected state to the selected state, the dimension of one transistorQ13 forming the flip flop is designed as small as possible.Accordingly, in the consecutive access cycle in which the decoder unit D0 is selected, the output node NOR0 rises in accordance with the rise of the node PSY7 and quickly turns ON the transistor Q10, hence the node 0A is restored to the ground potential.Therefore, the transfer operation in response to the clock T can be achieved smooa In the RAS CAS cycle, a decoder precharge clock PYD is generated during the reset period, hence all the decoder output nodes NORi 0 i are charged up to the logic 1 level and the node is also restored to the ground potential, and therefore, the logic 1 level at the node would not bring about any hindrance in the latch operation of the shift register.The charging clock for the respective decoder units is preset so as to exceed the power supply level, because the selective charging clocks PSY1 upon consecutive access cycles rise higher than the power supply level and thus charge up the selected decoder unit to the power supply 4 level. In addition, provision is made such that the address buffer which feeds address binary codes serving as a decoder input, is inhibited from operation in a consecutive access mode. The above mentioned is a series of operations in the circuit illustrated in Fig. 10. The decoder associated with a shift register according to the present invention can bring out an epock making property of a memory device that a consecutive access cycle time is as small as 70 ms, owing to the facts that in the proposed circuit, by means of a latch clock ssL generated in synchronism with the CAS in the RAS CAS cycle, decoder selection unselection information can be taken in a latch circuit formed of two stages of very simple inverters, renewal of latched information can be achieved without influencing the next stage so long as a transfer clock sST is not applied, and hence upon switching to a consecutive access mode the operation can be continued smoothly and quickly that the activation period can be shortened because latching can be achieved in a very short period of time by a clock 6L which is generated immediately at the following edge of the CAS in the consecutive access cycle and which serves both as a latch signal and as an I O bus information transfer drive sidnal and that the transfer clock T generated immediately after resetting of the CASpasses through the shortest path from the transistor Q17 to the transistor Q27 in Fig. 10, and is accelerated by the intervening of the boot strap circuit, and hence the decoded information can be transferred to the next stage in a short period of time. A construction of a timing generator employed in the present invention is il ustFated in Fig. 12, and timing waveforms appearing in this timing generator are illustrated in Fig. 13. The operation of the timing generator will be explained in the following with reference to these figures. In the illustrated example, description will be made in connection to the four phase driven shift register shown in. Fig. 6. When the RAS shifts from 1 level to 0 level and thereby the memory is activated, a timing signal RAS converted to an internal MOS level rises.In response to the RAS, precharge timings XPO, XP1 and XPz are reset, and RAS, RAS1 and RA52 rise successively, so that row address buffer responds to address information. Address binary codes are transmitted from the address buffer to a row decoder, and when a selection unselection operation of the row decoder has been completed, a timing signalRA rises and a selected word line is driven to rise. Thereafter, in response to the RA, a timing signal SE rises, and when sense amplifiers are activated, the contents in N memory cells connected to the selected word line are amplified and refreshed. Then, the circuit operation in response to activation of the RAS has been finished.A first stage inverter to which the CAS is input, is designed so as to operate normally in response to an activation signal of the RAS, for example, in response to a timing signal RASo in order to assure the GATED CAS operation. Accordingly, activation of the CAS is effected only when the RASO rises and also the GAS switches from 1 level to 0 level. Thereby, the CAS converted to the internal MOS level can rise. In response to the CAS, precharge timings YPO, YP1 and YP2 are reset, and also CASO, CAS1 and CAS2 rise successively, so that a column address buffer responds to the address information.When the address binary codes were transmitted from the address buffer to the column decoder and selection unselection operations in the column decoder have been completed, a timing RE rises, so that a digit line of a selected column is connected to a data input output bus. In response to theRE, a timing DE rises, so that an output amplifier is activated, and memory cell information appearing on the data input output bus is amplified and transmitted via an output buffer to an output terminal.Then the activation operation controlled by the CAS has been finished. The above mentioned is the explanation the operation of a principal internal circuit of a dynamic RAM of two phase clock multi address system. While the circuit system according to the present invention is similar to the heretofore known circuit system with respect to activation of the RAS, imrovements have been made in the subsequent activation of the CAS. More particularly, when the RASo rises in response to activation of the RAS and also the CAS is activated by switching from 1 level to 0 level, at first theCAS which has been converted to an internal MOS level, rises.Simultaneously with resetting of the precharge timings YPO, YPI and YP2 in response to the CAS, the CASO, CAS1 and CAS2 rise successively, and the column address buffer responds to the address information. When the address binary codes were transmitted from the address buffer to the column decoder and selection unselection operations in the column decoder have been completed, the RE rises.On the other hand, in response to the rise of the CAS, a timing CAS0, rises simultaneously with the CAS0, and in response thereto, a shift register drive clock d4 is reset and another clock 1 rises.The clock 4 is a data latch clock for the last stage of the shift register, and also it carries out precharge. Although data latched in the preceding stage is treLnsferred in response to rise of the transfer clock 1 and thereby the data would appear at the NOR output node of the decoder, since the clock YPo is preset so that precharge of the decoder may not be finished in the first RAS CAS cycle, even if the transferred data should be OIIJ it would be cancelled and thus mulfunction would not occur.Accordingly, the RE which commences to rise in response to the CASO , really commences to rise in response to rise of the RE which is preset to rise only in response to the fact that in the first RASIGAS cycle, after the decision in the column address decoder and also after activation of the RAS, amplification by the sense amplifiers has been well achieved. This means That the RE preset so as to start rising after the selection unselection operations in the column decoder controlled by the shift register have been completed, is also controlled by the RE analogously to that the CAS clock upon the RAS CAS cycle is controlled by the RAS clock so as to prevent self running of the CAS.In other words, owing to such gated control, in the first RAS CAS cycle, the timing of the RE which serves to connect a digit line to a data input output bus in response to the CASO which was separated from the CASO for the purpose of generating a group of shift register drive clocks, can be controlled so as not to be advanced.When the RE rises, the transfer clock dl is reset in response thereto, and the transfer is terminated. As a result of resetting of the clock 61, the clock 2 rises, the RE has already terminated its rising. Hence, it is possible to take the state of the column address decoder decided in the first RAS CAS cycle into the register.The clock fib2 is preset so that it may maintain 1 level until the reset time of the CAS and may be reset in synchronism with the resetting of the CAS. In addition, at this moment, the CASO, CAS1,CAS2 and RE maintain. 1 level until they are reset by the RAS. At the same time, a shift register drive clock d3 rises and acts to hold the information taken in internally. Furthermore, a one shot operation is effected in such manner, that it may be reset after an appropriate time has elapsed, and subsequently, a clock 64 rises to hold the information within the register. After resetting by theCAS was effected and a desired precharge period has elapsed, when the memory device is activated by the CAS and enters into a page mode cycle, the clock 4 is reset to wall hold the information within the register, and only the rise of the transfer clock d, is waited for.Again tba. CAS which was converted into the internal MOS level rises, and in response thereto the CA 1 begins to rise.In accordance with the rise of the CAS0,, the clock 1 also rises, so that the information in the column decoder unit which was taken in in the first RASJCAS cycle and latched is transferred. As a result, the column decoder unit having the address next to the column decoder unit selected in the RAS CAS cycle is selected. At this moment, since the CAS0, CAS1, CAS2 and RE are activated in synchronism with the RAS, decision of selection unselection of column decoder units in a page mode cycle, is effected in response to the clock 6L only.Therefore, among the time required before decision of the column decoder units in the heretofore known page mode cycle, the time required for operation of the column address buffer, at least the operation time of the CAS1 and CAS2 clock generators can be omitted, and therefore, the present invention brings about a remarkable effect in the shortening of the access time.when a column decoder unit is selected in response to the clock 61, the RE rises in response to the selection and connects the selected digit line to the data input output bus. At the same time, the clock 61 is reset, resulting in termination of the transfer, the clock dz rises, and so, the states of the respective decoder units are taken is as logic information. The clock 6z is preset in such manner that it may maintain 1 level until it is reset by the CAS clock. Subsequently to the rise of the RE , the DE rises. so that the memory cell information appearing on the data input output bus is amplified and transmitted via an output buffer to an output terminal.Furthermore, when the clock 2 is reset by the CAS, the clocks 63 and 4 are generated successively, and operate the register so as to hold the column decoder information which was previously taken in.Then the quite novel activation operation in the page mode cycle of theCAS. It is obvious that subsequently the newly operable cycle can be executed within the guarantee period in which the RAS can maintain a low level, and that such a circuit system does not bring about any hindrance in the memory operation in the heretofore known RAS CAS cycle. Next, with regard to the embodiment of the present invention employing a two phase drive shift register illustrated in Figs. 8 to 10, description will be made on the timing relation between the two phase drive clocks and the two phase multi address clocks, with reference to Fig. 14. It is to be noted that in the following description, the clock 1 in Fig. 8 and the clock ssL in Figs. 9 and 10 correspond to a timing output OGEO, and the clock 62 in Fig. 8 and the clock 6T inFigs.9 and 10 correspond to a timing output PSR. At first, consideration is made on the case where a RAS CAS cycle switches to a consecutive access cycle. When the RAS shifts from 1 level to 0 level and thereby the memory is activated, theRAS converted into the internal MOS level rises. In response to the RAS. clocks RASO and RAS rise. In response to the RASO, precharge clocks PXO, PX1, PXZ and PDL are reset, and also a clock RAS 1 rises, so that a row address buffer responds to address information. Address binary codes fed from the address buffer are transmitted to a row decoder, and when selectionlunselection operations in the row decoder have been completed, a clock RA rises, so that a selected word line is driven to rise in potential.Thereafter, in response to the RA, clocks SEO, SEl, SEZ and SE3 rise successively, and when sense amplifiers are activated, the information in the N memory cells connected to the selected word line is amplified and refreshed. Then, the circuit operation in response to activation of the RAS has been finished. The first buffer stage to which the CAS is input, is normally designed so as to operate in response to an activation clock for instance, the RA of the RAS in order to assure a gated CAS operation, and thereby it is prevented that the CAS by itself starts the buffer stage. Accordingly, only when the RA rises to 1 level and the CAS switches from 1 level to 11011 level, activation of theCAS may be effected. Thereby the CAS converted into the internalMOS level rises. In response to the CAS, clocks CASO and CAS rise in potential. In response to the CASO, precharge clocks PYO, PY1, PY2 and PIO are reset, at the same time a clock CAS 1 rises, and a column address buffer responds to address information.When address binary codes are transmitted from the address buffer to a column decoder and selection uncelection operations in the column decoder have been completed, the RE rises. The rise of the RE is subjected to control by a RASseries activation clock, for instance, the clock SE3. This is done for the purpose of controlling by the SE3 the timing of opening of a transfer switch for transmitting the memory cell information amplified by the sence amplifiers to the input output bus as driven by the SE on the basis of the column decoder information, that is, for the purpose of assuring an operation margin of the memory by transmitting the information to the input output bus after the amplification by the sense amplifiers has been completed. In response to the RE, clocks DEl and DE2 rise successively, and thereby a data amplifier is activated.On the other hand, a shift register latch clock O E which is generated in synchronism with the CAS, is generated after generation of the CASt. Subsequently, in response to this clockOGE, and also in response to the SE3 and completion of the operation of the column address buffer, a clock OGEO is generated. This clock OGEO functions as a selective drive clock S2 for the input output bus pairs. In more particular, in a RAS CAS cycle, a column decoder for connecting a digit line to an input output bus and a decoder to be used solely in a consecutive access mode for selecting a plurality of pairs of input output bases, are almost simultaneously operated, and in this way contrivance is made such that increase of an access time in a RAS CAS cycle may not be resulted. Subsequently, in response to the OGEO, precharge clock OPO, OP afid PSR are reset and a clock OE is generated to activate an output buffer for transmitting memory cell information to a data output terminal. Thereafter, when the operation switches to a consecutive access cycle, since the column address information decided in theRAS CAS cycle has been taken in the shift register by the latch clock OGE, the column address information is transferred to the column decoder unit corresponding to the next address by the transfer clock PSR corresponding to 62, 6T in the previous description generated during the reset period of the CAS. when the CAS switches from 1 level to O level, immediately the OGE is generated to start the latch operation.On the other hand, since the first buffer stage adapted to generate the CAS is designed to be subjected to the control by the RE, after the RE has risen in the RAS CAS cycle, the control by the CAS is inhibited, so that even after the operation has switched to the consecutive access cycle controlled only by the CAS, the CAS is not reset but is maintained in an activated state.When the OGE rises, the I o bus pair drive clock CSEO rises in response to the OGE, and thus select an inputloutput bus pair.Simultaneously with or somewhat later than the rise of the OGEO, the OE rises to amplify the information fed from the selected inputloutput bus pair by the output buffer amplifier and transmit the amplified information to the output buffer. Thereafter, when the CAS is reset, the OPO, OP and PSR rise, and hence, precharge of the output buffer amplifier by the OP and transfer operation of the decoded information by the PSR are commenced. As described above, according to the present invention, a novel memory device is provided which is characterized in that after completion of necessary operations in the so called RAS CAS cycle in which the RAS and the CAS are succes .ively activated, consecutive column addresses are internally produced on the basis of the previously introduced column address information without intervention of the operation of the column address buffer and decoder.As a result, the memory device can have a quite novel function of accessing to the memory at a higher speed than that in the prior art. Fig. 15 shows one practical example of the random access memory having a 64 K words X 1 bit construction on the basis of the second system shown in Fig. 4, and Fig. 16 illustrate terminal connections of the random access memory. In Fig. 16, reference symbols Ao to A7 represent address input terminals in which symbols Ao to A6 concern to refresh addresses, reference symbols Din andDout represent data input and data output terminals, reference symbolWE represents a read write control terminal, and reference symbolN C represents a non connection terminal.According to the illustrated example, in the RAS CAS cycle the device functions as a random access memory having a 64 K wo rds X 1 bit construction, whereas in the new mode that can be realized according to the present invention temporarily, let us call it shift mode or consecutive access mode , the device can realize a high speed sequential access memory having a pseudo 8 K words X 8 bits construction, and moreover, the device can be packed in the conventional 16 pin package. Therefore, the illustrated device brings about remarkable effects and advantages both in functions and in practical mounting. In the illustrated memory device, in view of the fact that the refresh cycles are limited to 128 cycles, memory cell arrays 51 of 126 rows X 256 columns are disposed in two sets, and there are provided two sets 52 of 256 sensejrefresh amplifiers, one for each column. In addition, 128 row decoder units 53 for selecting a word line are disposed, one set for each array.There are provided 64 column decoder units 54 for transmitting and switching the memory cell information amplified by the sense refresh amplifier 52 from the digit lines to 8 pairs of input output data buses 56 in a unit of 8 pairs, Vther there is provided another decoder 55 associated with a shift register for selecting one pair out of the 8 pairs of input output buses, and also there is provided an output buffer 57 for level converting the memory cell information appearing on the one pair of inputfoutput data buses 56 selected by the decoder 55 and transmitting the level converted information externally.The row decoders 53 and the column decoders 54 receive row and column address codes, respectively, from 8 bit row and column address buffers 58 and 59 which have the functions of receiving row and column address signals, respectively, and converting them into binary address codes at the internal MOS level. In addition, a drive circuit for the above mentioned principal function block is composed of a row address strobe signal generator, a column address strobe signal generator, a write read control signal generator and a write data input buffer.As described above, the memory device according to the present invention which employs the multi address system and the single 5V power supply system, can be packed in a 16 pin package without any difference in configuration from the conventional 64 K RAM, and hence, the effects of the improvements in the practical mounting of the memory device are remarkable. Now, a series of operations of the memory device according to the present invention will be briefly explained with reference to Fig. 15. In response to the switching of the RAS clock from 11111 level to O level, a series of necessary activation signals are generated.At first, a row address input signal is introduced into 8 row address buffer units, and thereby binary address codes at the internal MOS level are produced. Among these binary codes produced by the address buffer, 7 bits are transmitted to the row decoder, in which selection unselection operations of row decoder units are effected, and the remaining one bit is transmitted to the column decoder.Among two sets of row decoders, each consisting of 128 row decoders, one decoder in each set is selected, and in response to a word line drive clock generated upon sensing the selection unselection of the row decoder units, the corresponding word line is selected, so that information of the memory cells connected to the selected word line is transmitted to the digit line sense amplifiers.Thereafter, when a word line drive clock is received, the sense amplifiers start amplification in response to a sense amplifier activation clock. E the case where the CAS clock comes in before selectianSunselection of the row decoder units is decided in the midway of a series of operations activated by the RAS clock, then an operation called GATED CAS operation occurs in which generation of necessary activation clocks in response to the CAS is temporarily delayed.In other words, this operation is an essential function in a RAM of the multi address system, and normally a series of necessary activation clocks would be generated in response to the CAS clock, in such manner that after the decision of selection unselection of the row decoder units in response to the RAS clock, further waiting for the termination of the amplification by the sense amplifiers, and then selection unselection of the column decoder units may be decided. When the AS clock comes in, the column address signal is introduced into 8 colllsnn address buffer units, where binary address codes at the internal MOS level are produced. Among the binary codes produced in these address buffer units, 5 bits are transmitted to the column decoder, where selectioniunselection operations of the column decoder units are effected. The remaining three bits are fed to another decoder which selects one pair among 8 pairs of input output buses.The column decoder 54 consisting of 64 column decoder units achieve switching of connection die connection between one unit of 8 pairs of input output buses and digit line groups such consisting of 8 digit lines, in response to one bit of row address binary codes fed from the row address buffer and 5 bits of column address binsry codes fed from the column address buffer. In this column decoder, when a column decoder buffer activation signal rises, 8 digit lines connected to the selected decoder unit are connected to the 8 pairs of input output data buses, and thereby the memory cell information is transmitted to the input. output data buses. 8 pairs of data amplifiers connected to the input. output data buses are activated, and signal amplification is effected.The selection unselection operations in the additional decoder containing a shift register therein which selects one pair among the 8 pairs of input output data bases and connects to an output buffer, have been already finished at this moment, and therefore, the level on the selected input output data bus has been in itself transmitted to the output buffer. Subsequently, an output buffer activation signal rises, s o that the information of the selected memory cell appears at the data output terminal.Thereafter, the RAS and the Cay both switch from 0 level to 1 level, and then a normal RAS CAS cycle has been finished. The additional decoder containing a shift register therein for selecting one pair out of the 8 pairs of input output data buses, introduces the information of selecdonlunselecdon in this decoder into the shift register in each cycle, and so long as the normal RAS CAS cycles continue, in each cycle the infÏrmation is introduced and renewed.Subsequently to the RBSICAS cycles, if the operation switches to a nwel consecutive access mode cycle according to the present invention, that is, to the cycle in which the RAS is maintained at 0 level and only the CAS clock controls the operation, then since the sence amplifiers actuated by the internal clocks produced in response to the RAS as well as the data amplifier. connected to the column decoder for connecting the digit lines to the input output data buses and to the 8 pairs af inpuqpiitput data buses, are maintained in an activated condition, the state is maintained where the information of the selected memory cells has been tran rnitted to just before the decoder for selecting 8 pairs of input output data buses.Accordingly, if the operation switches frcop the RAS CAS cycle to the consecutive access mode relying upon the CAS clock only, then the selection unselection condition of the input output data bus selecting decoder in the RAS CAS cycle is introduced into the contained shift register, so that the 8 consecutive memory cells on the same word line starting from the memory cell selected in the RAS CAS cycle can be accessed in a consecutive access mode. In the consecutive access mode, only the transfer in the shift register and the activation of the 8 bit decoder and the output buffer are necessitated.Consequently, in the novel consecutive access mode subsequent to the RAS CAS cycle, not only it is possible to access to memory cell information at consecutive 8 bit addresses at a higher speed than inthe heretofore known page mode, but also a surplus effect for mitigating the operating condition that supply of column address information is unnecessary in this mode, is produced, as shown in Fig. 17 b in contrast to the case in the prior art illustrated in Fig. 17 a because the decoder has the function of internally producing consecutive addresses. As described above, the memory device provided according to the present invention is an epoch making device in that not only it is perfectly compatible to the conventional 16 pin mount 64 K words X 1 bit random access memory in the RAS CAS cycle, but also a novel consecutive access mode cycle to be replaced for the heretofore known page mode can be realized, and a remarkable effect that the access time can be reduced to one half is produced, and in that the memory device is characterized by the simplicity in use that there is no need to externally feed consecutive addresses.