# Polarization locked optical fiber and method.

## Abstract
A polarization locked optical fiber having a fiber core suspended by a thin cladding web within a tube with a pre stress acting along the web to fixedly polarize the core. Pref erably, the tube and web are glass materials having different thermal characteristics to provide a built in stress upon draw ing of the web and tube assembly. In the preferred method, an optical fiber preform is machined to a rectangular form and drawn within an enclosing tube to provide the stressed web arrangement.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A singlc mode optical waveguide comprising a longitudinally extending hollow tubular member, at least one rigid web transversely bridging tl e inside of said tubular member and extending longitidinally therealong, a core of light transmitting material suspended by said web within said tubular member and extending longitudinally therealong with at least portions of said web adjoining said core having an index of refraction lower than that of said core to enhance sinyle mode propagation therein, and at least portions of said web and said tubular member having thermal coefficient of expansion selected to exert a force by means of said web on said core to thereby effect a polarization locked characteristic within said waveguide. 2. The invention of claim 1 wherein said web is thin as compared to its transverse width bridging the tube. 3. The invention of claim 1 wherein the width of said web is at least 3 times, preferably at least 4 1 2 times its thickness. 4. The invention of claims 1 or 2, wherein said waveguide is formed by cooling from a relatively high temperature to its operating temperature and at least portions of said tubular member and said web have different physi cal, in particular thermal characteristics, preferably different thermal coefficients of expansion, selected to exert said force on said core as a result of said cooling. 5. The invention of claim 4 wherein said weu ensheaths said core to provide a minimum cladding therefor. 6. The invention of claim4 wherein the thermal coefficient of at least portions of said tube adjoining said web are higher than that of at least portions of said web so as to load said web in compression. 7 The invention of claim 2 wherein the major dimension or width of said web is several times the diameter of said core, and the radial thickness of said tubular member is approximately equal or greater than said width of said core. 8. The invention of claim 2 including crossed webs joined at the point of location of said core, wherein said webs are preferably orthogonal to one another. 9. The invention of claim 8, wherein at least portions of said webs are of different physical characteristics from one another so as to produce compressive forces along one web and tensile forces along the other. 10. The inventionof claim 2 wherein the thermal coefficient of expansion of said tubular member is higher than that of said cladding web, thereby to load said web and said core in compression. 11. The invention of claim 2 wherein said core is ensheathed in said cladding web, and wherein the minor dimension or thickness of said cladding web is approximately three times the diameter of said core, and wherein the major dimension or width of said cladding web approximates fourteen times the diameter of said core. 12. The invention of. claim 11 wherein the radial thickness of said tubular member is not less than the width of said cladding web. 13. The invention of claim 1 including means for coupling two such waveguides in end to end rclation ship, said means comprising a coupling link having an exterior cross section complementing the cross section of space between the inside of said tubular member and a side of said cladding web. 14.The invention of claim 13 wherein said coupling link includes a polarized core. 15. A single mode optical waveguide comprising an elongated core formed of light transmitting material an outer tubular member extending length wise of said core and spaced radially therefrom and means, extending between the outer surface of said core and the inner surface of said tubular member in a web like manner, for defining a cladding ensheathing said core, and for rigidly supporting said core internally of said tubular member, at least portions of said ensheathing and supporting means adjoining said core having an index of refraction lower than that of said core, and at least portions of the materials forming said tubular member and said supporting means having different physical characteristics selected to establish an anisotropic force radially in said core to effect a polarization locked characteristic within said waveguide. 16. The invention of claim 15 wherein portions of said materials forming said tubular member have a higher thermal coefficient of expansion than portions forming said ensheathing and supporting, means so as to load portions of said ensheathing and supporting means in compression. 17. The invention of claim 15 wherein adjoining portions of said tubular member and said ensheathing and supporting means are of different thermal expansion. 18.The method for forming a polarization locked, single mode optical waveguide, said method comprising the steps of providing a cladding web and core optical fiber preform of material drawable from a high temperature to its operating temperature and of oblong crosssectional configuration to establish major and minor cross sectional dimensions providing a tubular preform of drawable material having an inside diameter slightly greater than tne major dimension of said fiber preform feeding said preforms to a heating zone heating both said preforms to a plastic state at said heating zone with said fiber preform fed within said tubular preform drawing both said preforms together from said heating zone to reduce the cross sectional dimensions of both and fixedly join them together and cooling the drawn material of said preforms to a solid state. 19wThe method of claim 78 wherein the material of said fiber preform solidifies at a higher temperature than the material of said tubular preform whereby the material of said tube contracts about said web and core to load said web and core in compression and wherein the thermal coefficient of expansion of at least portions of the material of said tubular preform is preferably higher than the thermal coefficient of expansion of at least Portion of said fiber preform. 20. The method of claim 18wherein said fiber preform has a fused silica base. 21. The method of claim 18 comprising the step of feeding said fiber preform to said heating zone at a rate of feed greater than the rate of feeding said tubular preform to engage said fiber preform against the inner diameter of said tubular preform. 22 The method of claim 18 including the step of applying a low vacuurn within said tubular preform during the heating and drawing steps to engage said tubular member against the lateral ends of said fiber pre form. 23. The method of claim 18 wherein said minor dimension of said fiber preform is approximately three times the diameter of said core. 24.The method of claim 18 wherein at least the material of said cladding web adjoining said core is of lower index of refraction than said core. 25. The method of claim 18 wherein said step of forming said fiber preform includes the step of grinding an initial fiber preform to an oblong cross section. 26. The method of claim 18 wherein said initial fiber preform is formed with cladding material of selected index of refraction and a given coefficient of expansion surrounding said core and an outer layer of a different thermal characteristic exteriorly of said cladding material. 27.The method of forming a polarization locked single mode optical waveguide, said method comprising the steps of forming a cladding web and core, optical fiber preform of crossed web cross sectional configuration having the core centrally located at the point of crossing of the webs and with at least portions of one of said webs having a different thermal characteristic than at least portions of the material of the other web providing a tubular preform having an inside diameter slightly greater than the diameter of said crossed web configuration, the material of said web having a thermal characteristic different from that of one of said webs feeding said preforms to a heating zone and drawing both together from said heating zone with said fiber preform within said tubular preform to reduce the cross sectional dimension of both and fixedly join them together and coolinq the drawn materials to a solid state. 28, A fiber optic transmission system comprising a sinqle mode waveguide having an optically transmissive core including a pair of fixed polarization axes means for introducing a first optical signal solely to one of said polarization axes of said core for transmission therein along said waveguide means for introducing a second signal solely to the other of said polarization axes of said core for transmission therein along said waveguide and means for independently receiving signals transmitted by both said polarization axes of said core whereby said core supports two independent transmissions. 29 The system of claim 28 wherein said first signal introducing means and said second signal introducing means each respectively include means for producing an optical signal polarized in the direction of polarization of the respective polarization axis to which it is introduced so as to introduce each signal to only one of said polarization axes. 30. The system of claim 28 rherein said means for independenty receiving signals comprises first means for receiving signals transmitted solely by said one polarization axis and second means for receiving signals transmitted by said other polarization axis and wherein said first and second receiving means each respectively, preferably include means for filtering the outputs of said waveguide to respectively select signals polarized in the direction of the selected polarization axis. 31. The system of claim 29 wherein said waveguide is a polarization locked guide having said core suspended by a web extending within a hollow tubular nember with a fixed stress provided between the web and tubular member transmitted to the core to effect fixed polarization therein. 32. The system of claim 28 wherein a first of said signal. is transmitted in a first direction along said one polarization axis in said core and said second signal is transmitted in the opposite direction in said other polarization axis to provide both send and receive signals in said core.

## Description
POLARIZATION LOCKED OPTICAL FIBER AND METHOD BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to optical waveguides.More particularly, it concerns polarized optical waveguides particularly suited for use in single mode optical communication transmission networks and a method for making such waveguides. Single mode propagation of electromagnetic energy at frequencies within the range varying from near infrared to near ultraviolet is known to represent a quantum increase over multi mode propagation of such energy in the information handling capacity of optical communication systems. The major advantage of singlemode as against multi mode propagation of light energy lies in the avoidance of signal deterioration due to dispersion caused by differences in velocities between propagated modes in multi mode systems. In other words, a signal sch as a sharp pulse representing a bit of information supplied to one end of a single mode waveguide, will appear as substantially. the same pulse at the other end of the same waveguide assuming that propagation is not adversely affected by external perturbations.The same signal supplied to one end of a multi mode waveguide isolated from external perturbations, however, will appear as a pulse in each of the multiple modes which arrive at the end of a multi mode waveguide at different inevals of time. Because of the resulting increased length of each transmitted pulse or bit of information, the rate of information transmission in multi mode waveguides is severely limited. Single mode optical waveguide fibers have been formed to provide to some degree pre established polarization axes to mitigate the effect of external perturbations and for other reasons. Though initially non circular core configurations of elliptical or rectangular cross sections were used to obtain limited polarization, more recently compressive lateral stressing of the waveguide core has been advanced as providing a higher degree of polarization. The lateral compressive stress develops birefringence in the waveguide core, causing the index of refraction for light polarized parallel to the applied force to be increased relative to the refractive index for light polarized perpendicualr to the direction of the applied force. In this respect, the disclosures of U.S.Patent Nos. 4,179,189 to Kaminow, 4,354,736 to Maklad, 4,415,230 to Keck, and several of the prior art references cited therein, are exemplary. It is not known, however that the prior art techniques for polarizing optical waveguides have achieved a degree of polarization locking needed to assure that the measure of pre established or locked polarization will always be sufficiently retained, or exceed the measure of unwanted polarization resulting from external perturbations in a manner to preserve the initial characteristics of a signal transmitted throughout the length of a waveguide subject to such external perturbations. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION In accordance with the present invention, a single mode optical waveguide structure and method for its formation are provided by an optical fiber core which is constantly and permanently loaded by diametrically applied force to effect stress birefringence believed adequate to ensure polarization locking on essentially fixed orthogonal axes irrespective of external perturbations to be normally anticipated in an operable optical communications system. The waveguide structure, moreover, facilitates both butt and lateral coupling of two or more fiber lengths used, for example, as a trunkline in a communications network and also accommodates lateral coupling of branchlines or taps intermediate the ends of a single fiber length. Broadly, the waveguide comprises an optical fiber core suspended by a thin, rigid web or span which is under prestress within an outer tube. Advantageously, the thickness of the web is made thin as compared to its width as measured across the tube inner diameter so that the axis of polarization is inherently restricted to a small angle of deviation from the plane of the web whereby any birefringing effect on the core due to variations in the angle as distinct from the magnitude of external perturbation on the overall fiber is essentially nullified. Preferably, the web and tube are drawable glass materials, with at least portions of the span differing in thermal characteristics, such as in thermal coefficient of expansion annealing point or viscosity curve, etc., from adjacent portions of the outer tube so that as the waveguide assembly is cooled during drawing, a permanent polarizing stress is created on the core along the direction of the web. Advantageously, the tube inner diameter is made large as compared to the web thickness such that operation of the stress along the thin web tends to markedly reduce or severly limit shifting of the polarization axes due to external forces applied to the outer tube. The latter is also controlled in the pLc rred emediment by making the external tube relatively thick walled as compared to the web thickness. While not essential to practice of the invention, the core of the waveguide fiber is preferably completely embedded centrally within a cladding web which, while still remaining thin, is of a thickness adequate to enclose the core physically and to ensure propagation of single mode light energy along the core as a result of a refractive index differential between the respective materials of the core and cladding. The core enclosing cladding web, in turn, is oriented across the interior of a relatively thick cladding tube having a thermal coefficient of expansion TCE different from that of the cladding web. As a result, the cladding web and the core carried thereby are laterally stressed so that the core becomes birefringent to lock the polarization axes of the core. Space beween the outer cladding tube and the cladding web may receive a coupling link by which adjacent ends of two fiber waveguides may be connected by lateral or evanescent wave coupling. Alternatively, an arcuate segment of the cladding tube may be removed such as by etching or grinding to expose the cladding web for a short length intermediate the ends of the waveguide to provide for a laterial coupling of a tap or branch to the fiber waveguide serving as a trunkline in a communications system or network. In forming the fiber waveguide, a clading web and core preform is preferably first made with an oblong or rectangular cross section dimensionally proportional to the cladding web in the fiber waveguide product.This may be accomplished using conventional techniques presently used to provide a circular preform from which single mode fibers are normally drawn but by grinding opposite sides of such a circular preform to leave parallel chordal flats on opposite sides of the central core. The generally rectangular cladding and core preform is inserted in a tubular preform, again dimensioned in proportion to the dimensions of the tubular cladding of the fiber waveguide product, and the assembly drawn down to the final dimensions of the fiber waveguide. Preferably, the tube is selected to be of a higher TCE than that of the cladding web so that on cooling, contractions of the tube results in substantial compessive loading of the cladding web now extending across the inside of the thermally contracted tube. A principal objective of the present invention is the provision of a single mode optical waveguide structure and method by which polarization locking is assured in the optical core. Other objects and further scope of applicability of the present invention will become apparent from the detailed description to follow taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which like parts are designated by like reference numerals. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS Fig. 1 is an enlarged cross section of a waveguide formed in accordance with the present invention Fig. 2 is a schematic view illustrating the propagation of polarized light energy along a single mode fiber waveguide Fig. 3 is an enlarged fragmentary cross section illustrating the core and a portion of cladding web in the waveguide of Fig. 1 Fig. 4 is an exploded perspective view illustrating lateral coupling of the ends of two fiber waveguides of the present invention using a connecting link Fig. 5 is an enlarged cross section on line 5 5 of Fig. 4 Fig. 6 is a fragmentary perspective view illustrating a coupling intermediate the ends of an optical waveguide of the present invention Fig. 7 is a cross section of the web cladding and core preform used in the method of the present invention Fig. 8 is a vertical section illustrating in general the method of drawing the optical fiber waveguide of the present invention Fig. 9 is a cross section on line 9 9 of Fig.8 Fig. 10 is a cross section on line 10 10 ofFig. 8 Fig. 11 is an enlarged cross section of an alternate arrangement of a waveguide having prestress built in to the fiber web Fig. 12 is an enlarged cross section of another embodiment of the invention illustrating crossed webs Fig. 13 is an enlarged cross section of a double core waveguide formed in accordance with the invention and Fig. 14 is a diagrammatic view of a transmission system utilizing the polarized waveguide illustrated in Fig. 1. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS An embodiment of a single mode optical waveguide fiber in accordance with the present invention is illustrated in cross section in Fig. 1 of the drawings and generally designated therein by the reference numeral 10. As shown in Fig. 1, the waveguide structure includes a circular core 12 contained or embedded centrally within an internal span or cladding web 14, oblong in crosssection and extending diametrically across the cylindrical inner surface 16 of a relatively thick tubular member or tube 18. The side walls 20 and 22 of the web 14 define with the inside surfaces 16 of the tube 18 a pair of elongated chambers 24 and 26 each having a chordal segment configuration in cross section.In accordance with well known optical waveguide practice, the core 12, as well as the cladding web 14, are formed of high purity light transmissive materials such as pure fused silica with one or the other of the core 12 and at least adjoining portions of the web 14 being doped so that the index of refraction of the core 12 exceeds the refractive index of the adjoining cladding of the web 14. The material of the tube 18 may also be fused silica having an index of refraction the same as the web portion 14 or it may be of some other glass having an index of refraction different than that of the cladding web 14. In accordance with the present embodiment, however, it is important primarily that the material of the tube 18, or at least portions adjacent the web 14, have a thermal characteristic, for example, a thermal coefficient of expansion TCE , different from portions of the cladding web 14 such that upon formation of the optical waveguide 10 in accordance with the preferred method to be described below, the cladding web portion 14 adjoining the core 12 is placed under stress by diametric forces acting along the cladding web 14, between it and the tube 18.While the stress on the cladding web 14 may be tensile, such as where the TCE of the tube 18 is less than that of the cladding web 14, it is preferred that the clading web 14 and thus the core 12 be placed under compressive loading, for example, as a result of the TCE of the tube 18 being higher than that of the web 14. The principal reason for this preference is that glass is stronger in compression or, that is, exhibits a significantly higher resistance to compressive stressing than it does to tensile stressing. On the other hand, while this produces tensile loading on the tube 18, such loading is adequately borne by the availablity of a relatively large quantity of material in the tube. To illustrate, by way of example, the preferred relative dimensions of the waveguide components thus identified in Fig. 1, the dimension d represents the diameter of the core 12 which, for example, may be 5 microns The thickness of the cladding web 14 is, for example, 3 times the core diameter or 3d to provide an adequate amount of cladding completely enveloping the core 12 to assure efficient, low loss propagation of single mode light energy along the core in a manner dependent on the differential in the index of refraction of the core 12 and the cladding web 14. Thus, in the preferred embodiments, the thickness of the cladding web 14 is such as to extend sufficiently beyond the core 12 so that air filling the cavities 24 and 26 is not essentially relied on as a cladding material necessary for single mode propagation of energy along the core 12.The width of the web 14 extending across the inside diamter of the tube 18 is approximately 14 times the diameter of the core or 14d as noted in Fig. 1. Thus, the inner diameter of the tube 18, and hence the width of the web, is at least 3 to 4 times the thickness of the web and specifically 4 1 2 times in the values noted in Fig. 2 so that any deviation of stress angle is limited to less than 200 and, preferably, under 150 from the center plane of the web The preferred outside diameter of the tube 18 is 42d thus providing a radial dimension or thickness of material in the tube 18 more than four times the web thickness and approximately equal to the diametric dimension of the web 14.As indicated, while the relative dimensions shown in Fig. 1 are preferred, these relative dimensions may vary depending on materials employed in the cladding web 14 and in the tube 18. The effect of the built in stress or loading by the tube 18 through the cladding web 14 to the core 12 during single mode operation of the waveguide 10 may be understood by reference to Figs. 2 and 3 of the drawings. In Fig. 2, the core 12 and cladding web 14 are illustrated schematically as having indices of refraction n1 and n2, respectively. In Fig. 3, the core is shown having two mutually orthogonal transverse axes 28 and 30 which represent polarization axes due to stress birefringence caused by the compressive loading Fc. Single mode light energy of a specific frequency or wavelength introduced to the input end 32 of the waveguide 10 and propagated along the length thereof to an output end 30, assuming no stress birefringence or polarization in the core 12, is represented by the single solid line wave in Fig. 2. Stress birefringence and polarization on the transverse axes 28 and 30 resulting from diametric compressive loading of the core 12 under the force Fc, however, causes the same wavelength of single mode light energy to be split along the axes 28 and 30 into polarized waves Xa and Xbf represented respectively by dashed lines in Fig. 2. This division of the light energy propagated along the waveguide 10 is due to a difference in the propagation constants on the two axes 28 and 30 of polarization. Specifically, the axis 28 which lies parallel to the direction of the compressive force Fc has an apparent index of refraction which is higher than the apparent index of refraction on the axis 30. Thus, light energy will propagate at a higher phase velocity on the polarization axis 30 than on the axis 28. The importance of polarization may be further appreciated with reference to Fig. 2 if it is assumed that the wavelength X at the input end 32 of the waveguide is modulated to carry a pulse P along the length or the waveguide 10. The pulse P, representing a bit of information, will appear as two pulses Pa and Pb at the output end 34 of the waveguide, one for each of the individual polarizations propagated on the respective polarization axes 28 and 30. In accordance with the present invention, the waveguide construction illustrated in Fig. 1 enables a measure of stress birefringence adequate to effect polar ization locking On the axes 28 and 30 throughout the full length of the waveguide 10 irrespective of external per turbations having a tendency to upset the direction of polarization. As a result, one or the other or both of the two polarized waves Aa or Ab may be used as carrier waves for information without loss of signal integrity from one end of the waveguide to the other. Advantageously, suspension of the core 12 by the web 14 with built in stress on the core along the direction of the web, particularly in combination with the comparitively thick wall tube 18, provides a locked in polarization characteristic which is relatively immune to stresses external to the waveguide 10. Broadly, the core is joined to or suspended within the surrounding tube or jacket only along directions one as in Fig. 1 and two as later explained with regard to Fig. 12 which are prestressed such that any forces applied to the enclosing tube can only reach or effect the core by operating along these fixed directions. Consequently, to have a depolarizing effect, such forces when resolved along such directions, must be opposite to and significant relative to the prestress force.Stated otherwise, because of the bridge or span construction, all external forces on the waveguide 10 must be resolved along the direction of the span in order to have any effect on the core prestress, and the prestress within the web 14 is easily made sufficiently larger in conjunction with the thick wall tube 18 to render negligible any change in the prestress from external stress anticipated in normal usage of waveguides. A difference in final compression of .001 resulting, for example, from a difference in TCE of 5x10 7 oC between the web 14 and tube 18 will produce suitable polarization locking. As previously indicated, glasses having different viscosity curves or annealing points can be utilized to produce appropriate stress, as well as rapid cooling to cause a difference in crosssectional temperature. While the core 12 is preferably embedded within the web 14 such that portions of the latter which adjoin the core operate as core cladding, it should be understood that the air spaces of chambers 24 and 26 could extend to the core edges to thereby provide some of the core cladding. Enclosing the core with at least a thin layer Bf cladding glass is preferable, however, to preclude the possibility of core contamination and to insure efficient propagation. The thickness of the cladding web as noted previously is made approximately three times the coating diameter, which provides a cladding thickness between the core and the air spaces of chambers 24 and 26, equal to the core diameter to insure propagation in the core while still permitting evanescent coupling to the core as explained below. Thus, some encompassing glass cladding is desired for reduced core contamination and low transmission loss. Consequently, from a point of view of merely obtaining fixed polarization such as in short fiber lengths where surface contamination of the core and hence losses may be tolerated, a web which does not provide enclosing cladding can suffice however, for transmission lines where low loss is also very important, a clad core as noted above is preferred. While butt coupling of two waveguides is quite practical, in Figs. 4 and 5 of the drawings, an arrangement for lateral coupling of two waveguides 10a and lOb of the present invention is also shown. In particular, a coupling link 36 such as a D shaped fiber, having a polarized core 38, for example, an eliptical core, is shaped to fit, and preferably, complement the chordal segment cross section of one or the other of the two cavities 24 and 26 in the respective waveguides. The coupling link 36 is selected to be of an adequate length to effect evanescent wave coupling of the link core 38 to both cores 12a and 12b of the respective waveguides lOa and lob.By using a polarized core 38 in the link 36, the energy transferred between the waveguides lOa and lOb may be selected to correspond to one of the polarizationsXa or Ab as discussed above with respect to Fig. 2 of the drawings In Fig. 6 of the drawings, an arrangement is shown for coupling the waveguide 10 to a tap 40 intermediate the ends of the waveguide 10. As shown, an arcuate segment of short length of the tube 18 is removed either by etching or by grinding to expose one side of the cladding web 14.The tap 40 is secured along the exposed side of the cladding web 14 to effect lateral or evanescent wave coupling between the core 12 and the core 42 of the tap 40. Though not shown, the region of the juncture of the waveguide 10 and tap 40 may be covered by appropriate filler material having an index of refraction comparable to that of the cladding web 14. For very short coupling length, the matching polarization of the tap is not important however, for longer lengths suitable for good coupling, the phase velocity of the line and coupler link should be matched.Although the phase velocity of one polarization state may easily be matched in which case two lateral taps, one for each polarization may be employed it is more difficult to match both states within the single coupling link. However, where the match is not quite suitable or precise enough, it can be improved by bending the link. Advantageously, the web structure is particularly suited to enhanced coupling. That is, the link is preferably made of sufficient thickness to almost bridge the air gap between the web and wall. Then, the line section and coupling link may be heated and slightly elongated to fuse the link in place, to decrease the core size, and to reduce the spacing between the two cores, the latter two of which enhance coupling. Prior to describing the preferred method of forming the waveguide illustrated in Fig. 1, it should be noted that while the web 14 and tube 18 are comprised of fused silica or are at least silica based which have different thermal characteristics or different treatment, i.e., different cooling rates during the cooling and drawing step of the preferred method, many variations in construction are possible while retaining the thin web and suspended core arrangement of the invention. For example, the tube 18 may be two piece construction having a thin inner section fused to the web with an outer compressive jacket of suitable material. The method for forming the waveguide 10 ofFig. 1 may be understood by reference to Figs. 7 10 of the drawings. In Fig. 7, a cladding web and core preform.114 is shown to be dimensionally proportional to the cladding web 14 and core 12 of the waveguide product 10.In order to attain the required degree of optical precision in the materials of the core 12 and cladding web 14, the preform 114 is preferably formed by first developing a circular rod shaped configuration presently used in preforms for circular waveguides in which both the core and cladding are of pure fused silica and in which one or the other of the core and cladding glass is doped so that the core has a higher index of refraction than that of the cladding. ihe circular cross section of the initial configuration is shown buy dashed lines in Fig.7. The final shape of the preform 114 is, therefore, reached by grinding or otherwise rernoving opposite chordal segments of the initially circular rod. A tubular preform 178 is depicted in Figs. 8 and 9 of the drawings and is also dimensioned generally in proportion to the dimension of the cladding tube of the waveguide product 10. It will be noted, however, that the inside diameter of the preform 118 exceeds the width or diametric dimension of the web preform 114 so that the latter will pass through the tubular preform 118. In practice, the width of the preform 114 may approximate 1 4 whereas the inside diameter of the tube 118 may approximate 5 16. In Fig. 8 of the drawings, drawing of the respective preforms 114 and 118 down to the waveguide product 10 is depicted schematically in relation to a furnace 120 or other source of heat adequate to elevate the temperature of both preforms above the melting temperature thereof. In accordance with conventional drawing processes, the velocity VD at which the waveguide is drawn through the furnace 120 exceeds the velocity at which the preforms are fed to the furnace to effectively reduce the diameter gradually to the final size of the waveguide 10. In accordance with the present invention, however, the velocity Vw at which the web and core preform 114 is advanced or fed to the furnace 120 is in excess of the velocity VT at which the tubular preform 118 is so fed.In the practice of the method, the feed velocity Vw of the web and core preform 114 is approximately twice the feed velocity VT of the tubular preform. As a result, the web and core preform is advanced against the inner taper of the molten tubular preform during passage of both preforms through the heating zone defined by the furnace 120. This causes the outside edges of the web and core preform 114 to contact and fuse with the inner surface of the necked down tubular preform 18 as shown in Fig. 10. In addition to or as an alternate to the difference in feed to ensure engagement and fusing of both lateral ends of the web to the tube wall, a slight vacuum of .1 to 1 lb. may be introduced into the tube during the drawing operation. To ensure that the web 14 in the final waveguide product 10 will be placed under diametric compressive stress by the tube 18, the TCE of the tubular preform 118 should be greater than the TCE of the cladding web and core preform 114. It is also desirable that the solidification of the centrally disposed cladding web 14 should occur prior to the solidification of the tube 18.It is, therefore, preferred that the material of the tube 18 be of glass having a slightly lower melting temperture than that of the cladding web 1.14. This is particularly true inasmuch as the normal solidification of glass fiber during drawing is from outside toward the center of the drawn fiber. Where the web 14 is of pure fused silica which has a relatively high melting temperature, selecting the glass of the tubing to have a slightly lower melting temperature will cause the central cladding web to freeze or solidify in advance of freezing or solidification of the outer tube. Because glass is relatively strong in compression and weak in tension, it is preferred to place the relatively delicate cladding web 14 under compression and to resolve tensile forces in the relatively heavy and thick outer tube 18. It is, of course, possible, and perhaps acceptable, to place the cladding web under tension by appropriate selection of the TCE of the material forming the respective tube and cladding web. Diametric tensile stressing of the cladding web will develop the necessary polarization locking of the core 12, but under conditions which inlay result in damage of the web 14 due to excessive tensile forces therein. Thus, it is preferred that the web 14 be loaded in compression. While the waveguide 10 of Fig. 1 is constructed with a homogeneous tube and a homogeneous web excluding the core having different thermal physical characteristics, it should be understood that stress can be provided in the web in keeping with the invention by different characteristics, i.e., different coefficients, of only selected portions of either the tube or the web to permit greater variation in selected materials. For example, an area not shown of the tube adjacent and preferably adjoining the web ends and having a higher TCE than the web or tube remainder may be employed to provide compression on the web.However, for such purposes, it is to be preferred that the web itself be varied as illustrated in Fig. 11 wherein a web 120 is provided with a centrally located section 124, enclosing a core 122, of conventional cladding material having a given physical characteristlc such as TCE h outboard portions 126 of the web being formed of material, whether of light cladding quality or not, having for example a higher TCE than the cladding section 122 or the outer tube 124.Advantageously, while permitting a wider selection of materials, the waveguide of Fig. 11 may be constructed in a manner similar to that previously described with regard to Fig. 1 and illustrated in Figs. 7 10, with, however, the web preform being formed prior to grinding by conven tional preform forming techniques with first and second layers, representing central section 124 and outer sections 126. Other variations in the polarization locked guide of the invention are possible. For example, as illustrated in Fig. 12, orthogonally crossed webs may be utilized with one bridge providing tension and the other compressive forces on the core. That is, the structure of Fig. 1, in addition to its web 14 which in conjunction with the tube 18 provides a compressive force on the core , includes web portions 130 forming a web 132 orthogonal to the first web 14 with the second web having a physical characteristic providing tensile forces, i.e., a TCE higher than that of the tube 18 to produce tensile forces during cooling on the core along the direction of the second web and thus normal to the compresive forces achieved by the first web. One method of constructing the crossed span guide embodiment of Fig. 12 is, for example, to fuse segments 130 of selected TCE to the parallel faces of the previously described flattened preform prior to drawing within the tube 18. Of course, it should be understood that rather than being homogeneous, one or both of the webs 14 and 132 could utilize the dual arrangement illustrated in Fig. 11 and or adjacent portions of the tube 18 of selected physical characteristic may appropriately provided as previously noted. While the two polarization locked states are available for separate transmission as later described wIth, respect to Fig. 14, the polarization locked structure is also applicable to more than one core web construction as, for example, is illustrated in Fig. 13 where a pair of webs 14 and 14 suspend enclosed core 12 and 12 , respectively, within tube 18. Preferably, both webs 14 and 14 are of such physical characteristic with respect to the tube 18 as to produce compresive forces on their respective cores during drawing and cooling. Thus, each single mode guide formed by each of the pair of webs is available for separate transmission and, as described below with regard to the single web construction of Fig. i, each web can, in turn, support independent tansmis sion in either direction along both polarization states. As illustrated in Fig. 14, because of of their locked charateristic, each polarization state may be utilized for independent transmission. In this arrange ment, a fiber 140 constructed, for example, in accordance with the embodiment of Fig. 1, has each polarization state independently driven at opposite ends of the fiber by respective sources 142 and 144, for example, conventional laser sources in conjunction with associated modulators 143 and 145 to allow and provide simultaneous For ward and backward transmissions for sending and receiving within the same single mode core.Conventional polarized beamsplitters 136 and 138, respectively, input and output the signals designated S1 from source 142 at respective ends of the fiber 140. Thus, the polarized beam splitter 136, shown diagramatically to include a pair of plane polarizers 146 and 148 and a beam splitter 150, inputs the send signal S1 from source 142 to one polarized state designated by arrows 154 of guide core 12 and also delivers the receive signal S2 from the other polarized state designated by point 156 to a detector demodulator or, that is, a receiver 152.To insure separate input and reception of the signals S1 and S2I the polarizers 146 and 148 are oriented to pass light in mutually orthogonal planes which coincine with polarization planes of the fiber, or that is, the essentially parallel to the polarization axis of the fiber web.In the assembly illustrated in Fig. 14, the orient3 ion of polarizer 146 is selected to provide polarization in the vertical plane of the paper as shown by arrow 147 to coincide with the polarization state 154 of tile fiber 114 and the orientation of polarizes 148 provides polariza tion in a plane directed into the paper as ciesicjnated at point 149p to coincide with the plane of the polarization state 156 of tulle tiber. At the other end of the fiber 140, the polarized beam splitter 1qE is similarly illustrated as a pair of plane polarizers 166 and 168 and a beam splitter 170 with the polarizer orientation as shown by arrow 167 and point 169 respectively to transmit only signal S1 to a detector demodulator or receiver 172 and input signal S2 from source 144 to the proper polarization state 156 of the fiber. As shown, the signals S1 and S2, travelling in opposite directions, are preferred for the practical reason of sending and receiving within a single line however, it should be understood both signals S1 and can also be entered at one end on their separate polarization states and separately received at the other end. For oppositely directed waves as shown in Fig. 14 only polarization of the input is absolutely necessary while polarization of both input and output is clearly required for separation of two commonly directed waves. While the signals S1 and S2 are entered and received at ends of the fiber 140, it should also be understood that either or both signals could be entered to and or tapped from the line at any point along its length by means of the lateral tap arrangement described in regard to Fig. 6. In such an arrangement, the polarized beam splitter of Fig. 14 would be unnecessary since, the fiber tap and its lateral coupling provide separation of the beams and all that would be required is to input or receive signals from the tap through an appropriately oriented plane polarizer. In addition to utilizing the tap for coupling to or from the fiber intermediate its ends as noted above, the polarized beam splitter of Fig. 14 may also be replaced for sending or receiving of separate transmissions at he end of the fiber by a pair of taps with appropriate polarizers, or one tap for lateral coupling of one polarized signal and direct injection to the core for the other polarized signal. In light of the foregoing, it will be appreciated that as a result of the present invention a higher effective single mode polarization locked optical waveguide and method are provided by which the principal objective, among others, are completely fulfilled. It is contemplated and will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the preceding description that modifications and or changes may be made in the disclosed embodiments without departure from the invention. Accordingly, it is expressly intended that the foregoing description and accompanying drawings are illustrative of preferred embodiments only, not limiting, and that the true spirit and scope of the present invention will be determined by reference to the appended claims.