# Catalyst, process for its preparation and use thereof in conversion of synthesis gas to hydrocarbons.

## Abstract
A composition suitable for use after activation as a ca talyst or a support therefor in the conversion of synthesis gas to hydrocarbons comprising a porous, essentially amor phous framework matrix comprising at least one element present in the form of a hydrolysed compound thereof, for example silicon and aluminium, and distributed uniformly throughout the framework matrix at least one metal selected from Groups VIa and VIII of the Periodic Table, for example iron, cobalt, nickel and or ruthenium. Also a process for the production of the composition involving a hydrolysis step and a process for converting synthesis gas to hydrocarbons using the activated composition as catalyst.

## Claims
Claims I. A composition suitable for use after activation as a catalyst or a catalyst support in the conversion of synthesis gas to hydrocarbons which composition comprises a porous, essentially amorphous frane ort matrix comprising at least one element present in the fora of a hydrolysed compound thereof and at least one metal selected from Groups VIa and VIII of the Periodic Table of the Elements in compound for, the metal s being distributed uniformly throughout the framework matrix. 2. A composition according to clays 1 wherein the element having a hydrolysable compound is either silicon, aluminium, gallium, magnesium, calcium, phosphorus, titanium, berylium, vanadium, lanthanum or ceriu 3. A composition according to claim 2 wherein the element is silicon andlor alninium. 4. A composition according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the metal distributed uniformly throughout the framework matrix is one or nore of iron, cobalt, nickel and ruthenium. 5. A composition according to any one of the preceding claims further including a promoter comprising at least one alkali metal, alkaline earth metal or rare earth metal. 6. A composition according to any one of the preceding claims further including a halide component. 7. A composition suitable for use after activation in the conversion of synthesis gas to hydrocarbons which composition comprises a chloride component, the metals ruthenium, iron and potassium and a porous, essentially amorphous framework matrix comprising silicon and aluminium, either or both of which being in the form of a hydrolysed compound thereof, the metals ruthenium, iron and potassium at least being distributed uniformly throughout the framework matrix. 8. A process for the production of a composition as claimed in claims 1 to 7 which process comprises hydrolysing a homogeneous mixture comprising i at least one element having a hydrolysable compound in the form of a hydrolysable compound thereof, ii a hydrolysis medium, and iii at least one metal selected from GroupsVIa and VIII of the Periodic Table of the Elements in the form of a compound soluble under hydrolysis conditions in the hydrolysis medium, and thereafter removing the hydrolysis medium and hydrolysate moiety not containing the matrix element s . 9. A process according to claim 8 wherein a homogeneous mixture comprising water, a hydrolysable silicon compound, a water soluble aluminium compound, a source of chloride ions, a soluble ruthenium compound and a soluble potassium compound is hydrolysed and thereafter water and the hydrolysate moiety not containing silicon is removed. 10. A process according to either claim 8 or claim 9 wherein the composition is thereafter heated at a temperature in the range from 100 to 6000C. 11. A process according to any one of claims 8 to 10 wherein the composition is reductively activated by heating at a temperature in the range from 200 to 600 C in a reducing atmosphere. 12. A process for the conversion of synthesis gas to hydrocarbons which process comprises contacting synthesis gas at elevated temperature and pressure with a catalytically effective amount of a reductively activated composition as claimed in claims 1 to 7. 13. A process according to claim 12 wherein the composition of claim 7 is employed. U. A process according to claiM 13 wherein the silicon to aluminium ratio of the framework matrix is in the range from 3 1 to 20 15. A process according to claim 14 wherein the silicon to aluminium ratio is in the range from 5 1 to 15 1.

## Description
CATALYST PROCESS FOR ITS PREPARATION AND USE THEREOF IN CONVERSION OF SYNTHESIS GAS TO HYDROCARBONS The present invention relates to catalysts and catalyst supports suitable for use in the conversion of synthesis gas to hydrocarbons, a process for their preparation and uses thereof. During the 1970 8, events in the petroleum industry stimulated research into alternatives to naphtha as the raw materials source for petrochemicals production. Interest was resurrected worldwide in process routes involving the use of C1 feedstocks such as carbons monoxide which is potentially available on a vast scale from a variety of sources, including coal and natural gas. Continued development of coal gasification, hydrocarbon reforming and partial oxidation technologies, will increase the availability and should lower the unit cost of synthesis gas, which principally comprises carbon monoxide and hydrogen. The technology is also available for converting methane to synthesis gas.A process whereby carbon monoxide is catalytically hydrogenated to produce olefines and linear paraffins, generally referred to as the Fischer Tropsch process, much worked on in the 1930 s and 40 s has recently been extensively re examined. The methods by which supported catalysts are generally prepared fall into three main general groups or modifications thereof as follows i Mixing the support and active components by mechanical means, such as grinding, kneading or the like, followed by shaping and activating by thermal or chemical treatment, impregnating a shaped or unshaded support with aqueous or nonraqueous solutions of readily decomposable salts or complexes of the active eoxyeaents followed by thermal decopposition and or chemical activation thereof, iii chemical precipitation of the active components together with or in the presence of unshaped supports.Deficiencies have been recognised in all these methods, see for example GB A 1342020 which recognises the problem of catalyst deactivation. Catalysts for the Fischer Tropsch process are generally prepared by method ii , i.e. by impregnating or ion exchanging aGroup VIII metal component, for example salts of ruthenium and or iron, together with a promoter ion typically an alkali metal ion, for example Wa or gt on to a support such as alumina or silicalite. A perpetual problem associated with the use ofFischer Tropsch type catalysts has been their lack of selectivity to liquid aliphatic hydrocarbons as compared with carbon dioxide or methane for example. In BP A 72 612 Coal Industry Patents Livited there is described a synthesis gas conversion catalyst which can be used in the direct conversion of synthesis gas to olefinic hydrocarbons in high yield. The catalyst comprises a highly porous amorphous silica support, wherein the support has a monolayer of silica deposited on it and is inpregnated with a transition metal, the catalyst having a maximum pore diameter of up to Sni and an average pore diameter of up to 1.5mm.Such a catalyst can be produced by treating a support of a highly porous amorphous silica with a solution of a hydrolysable compound of silicon, removing the solvent to leave a monolayer of the compound on the surface area of the support, hydrolysing the compound to produce a monolayer of silica on the support and to produce a catalyst having a mexiwum pore diameter of up to 5ns and an average pore diameter of up to 1.5nm, and impregnating the catalyst with a transition metal. In the prior art catalyst coapositions the catalytically active metal components are generally either present in the pores of the support or dispersed on its surface in a non uniform distribution. The present invention provides a composition suitable for use after activation as a catalyst or a catalyst support in the conversion of synthesis gas to hydrocarbons which composition comprises a porous, essentially amorphous framework matrix comprising at least one element present in the form of a hydrolysed compound thereof, and at least one metal selected from Groups VIa and VIII of the Periodic Table of the Elements in compound form, the metal s being distributed uniformly throughout the framework matrix. The compositions according to the invention are essentially monolithic, i.e. they constitute one massive undifferentiated whole. The Periodic Table as used throughout the present specification is that found in Advanced Inorganic Chemistry 2nd Edn. by F.A.Cotton and G. Wilkinson, Interscience, 1966. In another aspect the invention provides a process for the production of a composition as hereinbefore described which process comprises hydrolysing a homogeneous mixture comprising i at least one element having a hydrolysable compound in the form of a hydrolysable compound thereof, ii a hydrolysis medium and iii at least one metal selected from Groups VIa and VIII of the PeriodicTable of the Elements in the form of a compound soluble under hydrolysis conditions in the hydrolysis medium, and thereafter removing the hydrolysis medium and hydrolysate moiety not containing the matrix element s . Suitable elements having a hydrolysable compound include elements of Groups IIa, IVa, Va, IIIb, IVb of the Periodic Table and the rare earth elements. Examples of suitable elements include silicon, aluminium, gallium, magnesium, calcium, phosphorus, titanium, beryllium, vanadium, lanthanum and cerium, of which silican and or aluminium are preferred. Suitable hydrolysable compounds of silicon include the tetra alkyl orthosilicates, for example tetraethyl orthosilicate. Suitable hydrolysable compounds of aluminium, titanium, calcium, magnesium and lanthanum, for example, include the metal alkoxides and metal carboxylates. Provided that a hydrolysable compound of one of the aforesaid elements is present in the bydrolysis mixture, other of the elements My be present, if desired, in the form of soluble hydrolyssble compounds or nonhydrolysable compounds. Thus, for example, silicon nay be present in the mixture in the fora of a hydrolysable compound and aluminium My be present in the mixture in the form of a nonrhydrolysable or hydrolysable compound and vice versa. The metals of Groups VIa and VIII of the Periodic Table are chromiun, molybdenun, tungsten, iron, cobalt, nickel, ruthenium, rhodium, palladiua, osmium, iridium, and platinum, of which at least one of iron, cobalt, nickel and ruthenium is preferred. The metals My suitably be added to the hydrolysis mixture in the form of a thermally decomposable and or reducible salt s thereof soluble in the mixture, for example a halide, a nitrate or a sulphate. The composition according to the invention preferably further includes a promoter comprising at least one alkali metal, alkaline earth metal or rare earth metal, of which the alkali metal is preferred. Preferred alkali metals are sodium and potassium. The further metal is preferably incorporated in the composition by addition, in the form of a soluble compound thereof, to the homogeneous mixture as component iv thereof. The composition according to the invention preferably includes a halide component, preferably chloride, which may suitably be incorporated in the composition by providing one of the components of the homogeneous mixture, for example component iii , as a halide salt. Alternatively, the composition may be halogenated in conventional anger. The elements comprising the framework matrix may suitably be present in the composition in an amount greater than 50 w w, preferably greater than 75 wiw. The metal s of Group VIa orGroup VIII My suitably be present in an amount greater than 0.05 wlw, preferably greater than 0.1 w w. The promoter may suitably be present in an amount up to 5X wlw. Halide may suitably be present in an amount up to 15 w w. As regards the process for producing compositions as aforesaid, component ii of the hydrolysis mixture is a hydrolysis medium, which may suitably be water, though other media optionally containing a hydrolysing agent, such as for example, ammoniacal alkanol, may be employed if desired. It is essential for the purposes of the invention that the hydrolysis mixture be homogeneous, that is to say that the components be uniformly distributed throughout the mixture. Means for achieving homogeneity will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art. This may suitably be accomplished for example by stirring or shaking the mixture. The order of addition of the components to the mixture must be such as to ensure that the mixture is homogeneous during the hydrolysis step. Certain combinations of components and orders of addition may combine to produce conditions, for example very rapid gelation, which prevent the effective homogenisation of subsequently added components. Thus, for example, in the preparation of a catalyst comprising ruthenium, iron and potassium distributed uniformly throughout a silica alumina framework matrix the aluminium compound should be added after the potassium hydroxide otherwise the mixture is prone to rapid gelation. The hydrolysis conditions to be employed will depend upon many factors, including the nature of the hydrolysable compound and the nature of the hydrolysis medium. Using tetra alkyl orthosilicates as the hydrolysable compounds and water as the hydrolysis medium for example, the hydrolysis may suitably be carried out at a temperature in the range from 25 to 1000C for a period sufficient to effect substantially complete hydrolysis of the compound, for example from 1 to 12 hours, during which time homogeneity of the mixture should be maintained. Thereafter the hydrolysis medium and the hydrolysate moiety not containing matrix element s is removed. Generally, by this point the homogeneous mixture will have gelled, if not it will probably do so as the hydrolysis medium is progressively removed. The hydrolysis medium and the hydrolysate moiety may be removed in any convenient manner, for example by evaporation. Using tetraalkyl orthosilicates as the hydrolysable compound for example, the hydrolysate moiety not containing matrix eleaent s is an alkanol.It may be advantageous under certain circumstances to use subat ospheric pressures during the evaporation. The evaporation temperature is preferably maintained below 2000 C. Thereafter, the composition may suitably be heated at a temperature in the range from 100 to 6000 C, preferably from 100 to TMOC, for a suitable period, for example greater than 6 hours for the purpose of dehydrating the composition. In a preferred embodiment, the invention provides a composition suitable for use after activation in the conversion of synthesis gas to hydrocarbons Which composition comprises a chloride component, a porous, essentially amorphous framework matrix comprising silicon and aluminium either or both of which are in the form of hydrolysed compounds thereof and the metals ruthenium, iron and potassium, the metals ruthenium, iron and potassium at least being distributed uniformly throughout the framework matrix. The catalyst composition may suitably be produced by bydrolysing a ho ogeneous mixture comprising water, a hydrolysable silicon compound, a water soluble aluminium compound, a source of halide ions, a soluble ruthenium compound and a soluble potassium compound and thereafter removing the water and the hydrolysate moiety not containing silicon. In the aforesaid composition, the amount of potassium may suitably be in the range from 0.05 to 10 w w, preferably from 0.1 to 5X wlw the amount of ruthenium and iron may suitably be in the range from 0.1 to 25Z w w, preferably from 0.5 to 15Z w w the amount of halide may suitably be in the range from 0.05 to 5 w w, preferably from 0.1 to 2.5X wlw, the remainder of the composition being comprised of silicon and aluminium. The silicon to aluminium ratio My suitably be greater than 1 1.It has been found that for use as a catalyst in the conversion of synthesis gas to hydrocarbons, the yield of liquid products in the gasoline boiling range C5 hydrocarbons is very much dependent on the silicon to aluminium ratio of the catalyst. Thus, for this purpose the silicon to aluminium ratio may suitably be in the range from 1 1 to 50 1, preferably from 3 1 to 20 1, even more preferably from 5 1 to 15 1.Here and elsewhere in the specification, the silicon to aluminium ratio is to be understood as the ratio of the number of atoms of silicon to the number of atoms of aluminium. Before use as a catalyst for the conversion of synthesis gas to hydrocarbons it is preferred to reductively activate the compositions of the present invention. Reductive activation may suitably be effected by heating the composition, suitably at a temperature in the range from 200 to 600 C, in a reducing atmosphere, for example hydrogen, carbon monoxide or synthesis gas.It is believed that the reductive activation treatment chemically reduces the catalytic metal compound to the active metallic state.Reductive activation may be effected in a separate, distinct step or in situ during the conversion of synthesis gas to hydrocarbons. In another aspect the invention provides a process for the conversion of synthesis gas to hydrocarbons which process comprises contacting synthesis gas at elevated temperature and pressure with a catalytically effective amount of a composition as hereinbefore described. A particularly suitable composition comprises iron, ruthenium and potassium uniformly distributed throughout an amorphous silica alumina framework matrix, prepared and activated as described hereinbefore. Preferably the composition is activated prior to use in the process of the invention. Catalysts containing these essential components and prepared by the method of the invention can convert synthesis gas at lower temperatures to hydrocarbons with much higher selectivities to desirable hydrocarbons and lower selectivities to unwanted carbon dioxide than catalysts in which the catalytically active components are impregnated in similar proportions on to the support.Methods for preparing synthesis gas are well known in the art and usually involve the partial oxidation of a carbonaceous substance, e.g. coal. Alternatively, synthesis gas may be prepared, for example, by the catalytic steam reforming of methane. Although it is preferred to use substantially pure synthesis gas, the presence of such iDpursties ss carbon dioxide and nitrogen can be tolerated.On the other hand, impurities which have a deleterious effect on the reaction should be avoided. The ratio of hydrogen to carbon monoxide in the synthesis gas My vary widely. Normally, the molar ratio of hydrogen to carbon monoxide iay be in the range from 10 1 to 1 10, preferably from 5 1 to 1 5. Hethods for adjusting the molar ratio of hydrogen to carbon monoxide by the so called shift reaction are well known in the art. The synthesis gas may suitably be contacted with the catalyst at an elevated temperature in the range 150 to 4500 C, preferably from 225 to 375 C. The pressure My suitably be in the range from atmospheric to 100 bars. The process My be operated batcbwise or continuously, preferably continuously. The contact time in a continuous process, defined as Volume of catalyst in millilitres Total volume of gas in willilitres per second at NTP My suitably be in the range from 1 to 30 seconds, preferably from 1 to 10 seconds, though longer and shorter times may be used if desired. The catalyst My be employed in any suitable form, for example in the form of either a fixed bed, a fluidised bed or a moving bed. The invention will now be further described by reference to the following Examples. A. Catalyst Preparation Example 1Ru 0.12 Fe 0.16 K0.1 support .g silicon to aluminium ratio of 5 1 Tetra alitl orthosilicate tetraethoxy silane 52.lg was placed in a roand bottom flask equipped with thermometer, condenser and suba seal. To the rapidly stirred material was added ruthenium chloride 1.68g , ferric nitrate 6.51g and potassium hydroxide 1.08g followed by aluminium nitrate 20.1g in 146ml deionised water. The suspension was heated to 70 C and stirring continued until hydrolysis of the tetraalkyl orthosilicate was complete. The material was then heated in an oven at 80 to 1000C for 12h to produce a brown glass like solid. The levels of ruthenium and iron in the material were 1.6 and 2.2X b.w. respectively and the silicon to aluminium ratio of the matrix was 5 1. The catalyst so obtained was reduced in a stream of hydrogen for 15 h at 2250C.Examples 2 to 7Ru0.12Fe0.16 Ko.11 support 6 8 silicon to aluminium of X l whereinX 1,3,7,10,20 and 50 Example 1 was repeated except that the amounts of tetra alkyl orthosilicate and aluminium nitrate were varied so as to provide catalyst compositions wherein the silicon to aluminium ratio was as follows 1 1 Example 2 3 1 Example 3 7 1 Example 4 10 1 Example 5 20 1 Example 6 50 1 Example 7Example 8Ru0.12 Fe0.16Ko.11 support Si Al of 10 1 Example 5 was repeated except that instead of aluminium nitrate there was used aluminium isopropoxide.Example 9 Fenl6Ko ll support 6.8 Si Mg of 10 1 Example 5 was repeated except that instead of aluminium nitrate there was used magnesium alkoxide.Example 10 Ru0.12Fe0.16Ko11 support ss, Cl Si Al 10 1 Example 5 was repeated. In this example the C1 was determined it was 1.0 w w prior to reductive activation and 0.5X w w after reductive activation. Example 11 Ru0.12Fe0.16 support 68 Si Al Si Al L 10 1 Example 5 was repeated except that the potassium hydroxide was omitted.Example 12 b l6 support 6 Si Al 10 1 Example 3 was repeated except that both potassium hydroxide and ruthenium chloride were omitted.Example 13Ru0.12Fe0.16 support 6.8, no Cl Si Al 10 1 Example 5 was repeated except that instead of ruthenium chloride there was used ruthenium acetylacetonate. The resulting catalyst did not in consequence contain chloride ion. Example 14Fe0.16 K0.11 support 6.8 Si Al 10 1 Example 5 was repeated except that ruthenium chloride was omitted.Example 15 Co0.16 rapport 6.8 5i Sl 10 1 Example 5 was repeated except that cobalt was added and ruthenium chloride, ferric nitrate and potassium hydroxide were omitted.Comparison Test 1 The procedure of Example 1 was repeated except that the addition of ruthenium chloride, ferric nitrate and potassium hydroxide was omitted, i.e. an amorphous aluminosilicate having a silicon to al inium ratio of 5 1 was synthesised. The support so obtained was impregnated with ruthenium chloride, ferric nitrate and potassium hydroxide in the same ratio as in Example 1, to provide a catalyst of the composition Ru0.12 Fe0.16 to 11 support 6.8. The catalyst so obtained was reduced in a stream of hydrogen for 15h at 225 C. B. Use of the catalysts for the conversion of synthesis gasExamples 16 22 The catalysts obtained from Examples 1 to 7 were contacted in turn with a mixture of carbon monoxide and hydrogen 1 1 molar at a temperature of 294 C, a pressure of 20 bar and a GHSV of 2330 contact time 1.58 . The results obtained are shown in Table 1.Comparison Test 2 The use of the catalyst obtained in Comparison Test 1 as a synthesis gas conversion catalyst was examined under comparable conditions except that the temperature was 3950C to those used inExample 16. The results are shown in Table 1. Table 1EMI11.1 tb Example SEP Si Al SEP Catalyst SEP MOLAR SEP SELECTIVITY SEP SEP tb SEP ratio tb SEP CH4 SEP C02 SEP Liquids SEP Oxygenates tb SEP 17 SEP 1 1 SEP Example SEP 2 SEP 33 SEP 8.5 SEP 30 SEP tb SEP 18 SEP 3 1 SEP Example SEP 3 SEP 28 SEP 6.0 SEP 31.5 SEP tb SEP 16 SEP 5 1 SEP Example SEP 1 SEP 20 SEP 5.0 SEP 36.0 SEP 4.2 tb SEP 19 SEP 7 1 SEP Example SEP 4 SEP 18 SEP 6.0 SEP 51.5 SEP tb SEP 20 SEP 10 1 SEP Example SEP 5 SEP 16.5 SEP 4.9 SEP 61.5 SEP SEP SEP tb SEP 21 SEP 20 1 SEP Example SEP 6 SEP 22.6 SEP 15.3 SEP 28.4 SEP tb SEP 22 SEP 50 1 SEP Example SEP 7 SEP 36.0 SEP 15.6 SEP 15.7 SEP SEP SEP tb Comp SEP Test SEP 5 1 SEP Comp. SEP Test SEP 1 SEP 47.7 SEP 27.6 SEP trace SEP 0.3 tb SEP 2 tb Liquids comprise C5 and greater hydrocarbons. not measured The results in the Table demonstrate the following advantages of a catalyst prepared according to Example 1 over a Fischer Tropsch catalyst in which the support is prepared according to the method ofComparison Test 1 and in which the active components are impregnated on to the support in conventional fashion i considerably lower selectivity to carbon dioxide, ii considerably greater selectivity to liquid aliphatics, iii greater selectivity to oxygenates, and iv considerably lower reaction temperature for similar conversions of synthesis gas. It can also be seen that the best yields of C5 and greater liquid hydrocarbons occur in the Sisal range of from 3 1 to 20 1 and more partilarly in the range from 5 1 to 15 1 where the molar selectivities to unwanted methane and carbon dioxide are lowest.Examples 23 and 24 The procedure of Examples 16 to 22 was repeated except that the GRSV was changed to 2504 and the catalysts of Examples 8 Ex. 23 and 8 Ex. 24 were used respectively instead of the catalysts as used in those Examples. The results obtained are shown in Table 2. Table 2EMI12.1 tb SEP Example SEP Catalyst SEP Temp. SEP CO SEP conv. SEP MOLAR SEP SELECTIVITY SEP Z tb SEP C SEP t SEP tb CH4 SEP CO2 SEP C3 tb SEP 23 SEP Ix. SEP 8 SEP 290 SEP 28.4 SEP 21.3 SEP 6.0 SEP 66.4 tb SEP 24 SEP Ix. SEP 9 SEP 305 SEP 37.0 SEP 25.9 SEP 9.3 SEP 63.0 tb Examples 25 to 30 The catalysts obtained in Examples 10 to 15 were contacted in turn in a microreactor with a mixture of carbon monoxide and hydrogen 1 2 molar at a pressure of 6 bar and a GHSV of 500. The products obtained at 2250C, 2450C and 2650C were analysed. The results are given in Table 3. Table 3EMI13.1 tb Example SEP Catalyst SEP Temp SEP CO SEP conv. SEP MOLAR SEP SELECTIVITY SEP X tb SEP C SEP SEP tb SEP CH4 SEP C02 SEP ORGANICS tb SEP 225 SEP 21.0 SEP 20.0 SEP 4.0 SEP 76.0 tb SEP 25 SEP 1 SEP Ex. SEP 10 SEP 245 SEP 60.0 SEP 23.0 SEP 3.0 SEP 74.0 tb SEP 265 SEP 60.0 SEP 35.0 SEP 3.0 SEP 62.0 tb SEP 225 SEP 12.4 SEP 20.7 SEP 11.3 SEP 88.7 tb SEP 26 SEP r SEP Ex. SEP 11 SEP 245 SEP 10.7 SEP 45.9 SEP 9.7 SEP 90.3 tb SEP 265 SEP 28.7 SEP 33.9 SEP 4.7 SEP 95.3 tb SEP 225 SEP 49.5 SEP 60.6 SEP 12.1 SEP 87.9 tb SEP 27 SEP Ex. SEP 12 SEP 245 SEP 2.2 SEP 77.9 SEP 22.1 SEP 77.9 tb SEP 265 SEP 1.3 SEP 80.3 SEP 19.7 SEP 80.3 tb SEP 225 SEP Ex. SEP 225 SEP 6.3 SEP 38.6 SEP 34.1 SEP 65.9 tb SEP 28 SEP Ex. SEP 13 SEP 245 SEP 17.0 SEP 23.6 SEP 22.1 SEP 77.8 tb SEP 265 SEP 32.4 SEP 25.6 SEP 20.6 SEP 79.4 tb ORGANICS hydrocarbon products including methane. The results reported in Table 3 demonstrate i the improved performance in terms of lower methane and C02 selectivities obtained with chloride present in the catalyst, cf Examples 25 and 28, ii the improved performance in terms of lower CO2 selectivity associated with the presence of K in a Ru Fe catalyst, cf Examples 25 and 26, iii the improvement associated with the presence of Ru and K in an Fe catalyst, cf Examples 25, 27 and 29, and iv the satisfactory performance of the Co catalyst in the absence of promoters, cf Example 30.C. Analytical The composition of Example 1 was characterised prior to reductive activation by a variety of techniques including XRD, XRF,NMR and electron microscopy. The material had a glass like appearance. The metal ions Ru,Fe,K and matrix components Si,Al are in a homogeneous distribution throughout the material as judged by particle morphology observed using scanning electron microscopy and by EDAX which reveals substantially no difference between the concentration of metal ion matrix components at different sapling points throughout the material. The material is amorphous as judged by IRD powder patterns which show that no long range order is present in the material. NMR analysis of the silica alumina matrix material 27A1 and 29Si show spectra characteristic of amorphous material. The aluminium appears to be present predominantly in octahedral coordination provided that the temperature is below about 150 C. Infrared spectroscopy clearly shows nitrate ligand and a very broad hydroxyl peak showing the material to be substantially hydrated.Surface Area and Pore Volume Distributions The surface area and pore volumes of the compositions ofExamples 3 to 5 were measured by a BET method. The results are given in Table 4. Table 4EMI14.1 tb Ex SEP SEP BET SEP surface SEP SEP Pore SEP Volume SEP Fore SEP Volume SEP SEP Si Al SEP Ratio tb SEP Area SEP tb SEP mZg 1 SEP Cm g 1 SEP CX SEP pores tb SEP below SEP 20 tb SEP Angstrom SEP tb 3 SEP 285 SEP 0.143 SEP 67.8 SEP 3 1 tb 4 SEP 371 SEP 0.185 SEP 78.3 SEP 7 1 tb 5 SEP 494 SEP 0.234 SEP 90.9 SEP 10 1 tb With reference to Table 4, as the Sisal ratio changes from 3 1 to 10 1 the surface area increases from 285 to 444mêg 1 and and the pore volume from 0.143 to 0.243 mlg 1.In addition, the proportion of pores below 20 Angstrom rises fros 67.8 to 90.9Z as the Si Al ratio increases from 3 1 to 10 1.Acidity Measurements The material in powder form 0.5g, 500 micromesh was suspended in n heptane 10ml . Indicator dicinnamalacetone, pka 3.0, or dimethyl yellow, pka 3.3, 2 to 3 mg was added to the stirred solution and left to equilibrate for 30 minutes. n Butylasine 0.1 solar in nrheptane was then added dropwise until the characteristic colour change of the indicator was observed. The results are given in Table 5. Table 5EMI15.1 tb Ex SEP Si Al SEP nmbutylamine SEP titre SEP ml tb SEP ratio tb SEP Dimethyl SEP yellow SEP Dicinnamalacetone tb SEP pKa SEP SEP SEP 3.3 SEP pKa SEP SEP SEP 3.0 tb 3 SEP i3 1 SEP 5.1 SEP 3.0 tb 1 SEP 5 1 SEP 4.0 SEP 2.6 tb 4 SEP 7 1 SEP 4.4 SEP 2.8 SEP tb 5 SEP 10 1 SEP 5.9 SEP 4.8 tb With reference to Table 5, as the Si Al ratio increases from 3 1 to 7 1, the acidity passes through a minimum but increases rapidly at 10 1.