# Manually translatable circular saw with unidirectional brake.

## Abstract
A circular saw, having a circular saw unit 13 translatable along guides 19 , includes a friction brake unit 18 on the saw unit 13 and cooperative with a fixed part 19 extending parallel to the guides 19 . The brake unit includes a brake member 27 slidable along the fixed part 19 and urged thereagainst to provide frictional braking action in the feeding direction of the saw unit 13 along the guides 19 , but not providing braking action in the return direction of the saw unit. Preferably, the fixed part 19 is a rod, and two brake members 27 having friction pads 29 engage opposite sides of the rod 19 . The brake members may be urged by a wedg ing action or a pivoting action into frictional braking with the rod in the feeding direction.

## Claims
1. A circular saw having a power driven circular saw unit 13 annually translatable relative to a work surface g along longitudinally extending guides 16 for cutting a workpiece supported on said work surface 9 , characterized by a friction brake unit 18 mounted on said saw unit 13 for translational movement therewith, and cooperative with a part 19 extending longitudinally swistantially parallel to said guides 16 and secured against lengthwise movement relative thereto, said friction brake unit 18 comprising a brake member 27 3 slidable along said part 19 and urged thereagainst to provide frictional braking action in one direction of translation along said guides 16 but not providing appreciable braking action in the return direction of ttanslation along guides 16 . 2. The circular saw of Claim 1, characterized in that said brake member 27 38 has a pad 29, 39 of friction material having a high coefficient of friction which contacts said part 19 . 3. The circular saw of Claim 1 or 2, characterized in that said brake member 27 38 is movably mounted in said brake unit 18 in such a manner that frictional drag occurring between said brake member 27, 38 and said part cos during movement of said brake member 27, 38 in said one direction increases urging of said brake member 27, 28 against said part 19 , whereas any such frictional drag during movement of said brake member 27, 382 in said return direction tends to reduce such urging. 4. The circular saw of any preceding claim, character sized in that said part 19 comprises a rod 19 . 5. The circular saw of Claim 4, characterized in that said brake unit 18 has a second brake member 27 38 , and the two brake members 27 38 are disposed on and act upon opposite sides of said rod 19 . 6. The circular saw of Claim 5, characterized by a column 12 upstanding from said work surface 9 , and an arm 11 mounted on and radially extending from said column 12 , said arm 11 including said guides 16 , and said rod 19 being mounted in and extending along said arm 11 . 7. The circular saw of Claim 6, characterized in that said circular saw unit 13 is suspended from a carriage 8 movably mounted on said guides 16 , said brake unit 18 is mounted on said carriage 8 , and said rod 19 is disposed between said guides 16 . 8. The circular saw of Claim 7, characterized in that said rod 19 is pivotally mounted in said arm 11 for limited pivotal movement transverse to said one direction to enable said rod 19 to self align with movement of said brake unit 18 along said rod in said one direction. 9. The circular saw of any preceding claim, characterized in that the or each brake member 27 is wedge shaped and is in sliding engagement on a side away Llom said part 19 with a wall 26 of said brake unit 18 , said wall 26 being inclined towards said part 19 . 10. The circular saw of Claim 9, characterized in that the or each wedge shaped brake member 27 is resiliently urged in the opposite direction to said one direction to wedge the wedge shaped brake member 27 between said inclined wall 26 and said part 19 . 11. The circular saw of any one of Claims 1 to 8, characterized in that the or each brake member 38 is pivotally mounted on a lever 35 which is pivotally mounted in said brake unit 18 , the pivotal mounting of the brake member 38 on said lever 35 being displaced in said one direction relative to the pivotal mounting of said lever 35 in said brake unit 18 . 12. The circular saw of Claim 11, characterized in that said lever 35 is resiliently biased to pivot the brake member 38 towards said part 19 . 13. The circular saw of Claim 12, characterized in that an adjustable stop 34 is mounted in said brake unit 18 for limiting movement of the brake member 38 in said brake unit 18 in the direction opposite to said one direct ion.

## Description
MANUALLY TRANSLATABLE CIRCULAR SAW WITH UNIDIRECTIONAL BRAKEFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to circular saws of the hand actuated translatable type. Such circular saws may have a circular saw unit which is manually translatable along a radial arm and known as radial arm saws, or may have a circular saw unit which is manually translatable within and across a working table.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONWhen cutting by moving a circular saw unit through a piece of wood to be cut, both in the case of radial arm saws and in the case of a guided circular saw sliding beneath a working table through which the saw blade only partly emerges, the teeth of the saw blade are oriented in such a way as to keep the piece of wood in contact with the table on which it is supported and positioned.When the saw blade teeth are so oriented, the blade tends to self feed in the direction of cutting. The guides upon which the saw unit slides are arranged for reduced friction, so as to make the translation motion during cutting easier and less fatiguing, but such reduced friction facilitates this self feeding. This selffeeding phenomenon is called gobbling of the blade .To try to overcome this drawback, the operator, while pulling the saw towards himself during cutting, must at the same time check that the saw blade feeds at a constant rate. This is not always easy, particularly when there are different degrees of hardness within the same piece of wood.The control of the saw feeding rate can, therefore, be difficult, and, to reduce this drawback it has been proposed to employ a unidirectional hydraulic damping arrange sent, Such a damping arrangement can consist of a pistoncylinder unit provided with a unidirectional check valve which controls the flow of hydraulic fluid in one direction through a bore, thus controlling the speed of the piston. While in the opposite direction the hydraulic fluid is allowed to flow freely and to be rapidly discharged, thus allowing an easy return of the saw unit to the resting position.A hydraulic damping arrangement of this type is, however, cumbersome and expensive. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention is concerned withreducing the selffeeding problem while avoiding the complications and expense of a hydraulic damping arrangement.A feature by which this is achieved is the provision of a unidirectional friction brake which frictionally brakes N translation movement of the circular saw unit in the feeding direction but does not create appreciable braking action in the return direction.Accordingly, therefore, there is provided by the present invention a circular saw having a power driven circular saw unit manually translatable relative to a work surface along longitudinally extending guides for cutting a workpiece supported on the work surface, wherein a friction brake unit is mounted on the saw unit for translational movement therewith and is cooperative with a part extending longitudinally substantially parallel to the guiles and secured against lengthwise movement relative thereto, the friction brake unit comprising a brake member slidable along said part and urged thereagainst to provide frictional braking action in one direction of translation along the guides but not providing appreciable braking action in the return direction of translation alonq the guides.The brake member is preferably movably mounted in the brake unit in such a manner that frictional drag occurring between the brake member and said part during movement of the brake member in said one direction increases urging of the brake member against said part, whereas any such frictional drag during movement of the brake member in the return direction tends to reduce such urging. Said part may be a rod, for example mounted in the radial arm of a radial arm saw.Preferably a pair of brake members are disposed to operate on opposite sides of the rod, each preferably having a friction pad.Preferably, the or each brake member may be wedge shaped and disposed in sliding engagement on a side away from the rod with a wall of the brake unit, this wall being inclined towards the rod. This brake member wedges be tween the wall and the rod during movement of the saw unit in the feeding direction, i.e. in said one direction.However, the or each brake member may be pivotally mounted on a lever which itself is pivotally mounted in the brake unit. The pivotal mounting of the brake member on the lever is advantageously displaced in said one direction relative to the pivotal mounting of the lever in the brake unit. Other objects, features and advantages of the present invention will become sore fully apparent from the follow ing detailed description of the preferred embodiment, the appended claims and the accompanying drawings.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS In the accompanying drawings FIG. 1 illustrates in perspective view a radial am saw according to the invention FIG. 2 diagramatically shows a vertical section through the radial arm of the saw of Fig. 1 FIG. 3 stows a top plan view of the radial arm of Fig. 2 with parts broken away and some parts sectioned FIG. 4 is a top plan view, on a larger scale, of the friction brake unit shown in Figs. 2 and 3 FIG. 5 is a section on the line V V of Fig. 4 and FIG. 6 is a top plan view, partly sectioned, of a second embodiment of a friction brake unit according to the invention. DETAII D DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS The preferred embodiment of the invention, in the form of a radial am saw, is shown in Figs. 1 to 5.Fig. 1 shows a radial am saw having a work surface 9 from which upstands a column 12 having mounted thereon a radial am 11. A circular saw unit 13 is suspended from a carriage 8 which is slideably translatable along the radial am 11 a handle 7 being provided on the saw unit for this purpose. Figs. 2 and 3 show in greater detail the radial arm 11 with the circular saw unit 13 suspended thereunder. InFig. 2 half the circular saw 14 is shown in broken lines.The carriage 8 of the saw unit has mounted on its upper side three rollers 15 which are rotatable in bearings about parallel vertical axes. The rollers 15 engage and run in longitudinal guides 16 which are formed as grooves in and extending the length of opposed side walls of the arm 11. A brake unit 18 is mounted on top of the carriage 8 and secured thereto by a screw 17. A rod 19, which is engaged on opposite sides by the brake unit 18, extends through and along the arm 11 for most of the length thereof. The rod 19 extends between and parallel to the groove like seats 16 just above the level of the rollers 15. The rod 19 is secured adjacent its ends to the arm 11 by pins 20, 21. The pin 21 is mounted horizontally through the rear end of the rod and the ends of the pin 21 extending from each side of the rod 19 are pivotally mounted in bores 22 in an inner wall of the arm 11. The forward pin 20 is mounted downwardly in the arm 11 loosely through the rod 19 and terminates at its lower end with a stop. A recess 23 in the internal wall of the arm 11 accommodates the inner end of the rod 19 enabling the rod to have limited transverse swinging movement about the pin 20 with the ends of the pin 21 sliding in the bores 22. Also, the rod 19 is capable of limited transverse swinging movement about the pin 21. This enables the rod to self align with movement of the brake unit 18 therealong as the saw unit 13 is manually pulled in the operating direction 30 during a cutting stroke. The saw unit 13 is translatable along the guides 16 relative to the work surface by movement of the wheels 15 along the guides 16. Fig. 4 stows a plan view of the brake unit 18, similar toFig. 3 but in greater detail. The brake unit 18 is syn setriczl about the rod 19 and has a flat base 24 with upstanding forward wall sections 25 and upstanding side wall26, the latter being inclined towards the rod 19 in the rearward direction, i.e the direction opposite to the feeding direction 30. A pair of wedge shaped brake members 27 are disposed between the side walls 26 and the rod 19 and are spring urged in a wedging direction therebetween by coil springs 28 disposed at their ends on studs 28a, 28b extending respectively from the end wall portions 25 and the wedges 27.As can be seen, each wedge 27 has its inner side parallel to the rod 19 and its outer inclined side parallel to and in sliding en gagerent with the respective wall 26. Each wedge 27 has a rectangular friction pad 29 of a friction material having a high coefficient of friction. The pads 29 are recessedand secured in the inner walls of the brake members 27 and slide against opposite sides of the rod 19.Fig. 5 is a section on the line V V of Fig. 4 and shows the screw 17 securing the base plate 24 to the top of the carriage 8. The friction pads 29 can be seen engaging opposite sides of the rod 19 which has a rectangular cross section.It should be noted that the brake members 27 can slide easily on the base plate 24 and along the inclined side walls 26, and under the light action of the springs 28 the brake members 27 are lightly resiliently biased rearwardly, so that the wedging action of the members 27 between the inclined side walls 26 and the rod 19 causes the friction pads 29 to be brought lightly into contact with the opposite sides of the rod 19. In operation, the saw unit 13 is pulled forwardly, i.e.outwardly, along the arm 8 manually by the handle 10During this movement in the feeding direction 30 the frictional drag between the friction pads 29 and the rod 19 causes the wedge shaped brake members 27 to be dragged further into the wedge between the respective inclined wall 26 and the rod 19,so increasing the urging of the friction pads 29 against opposite sides of the rod 19 with consequential increased frictional drag therebetween, resulting in a braking action occurring between the brake unit 18 and the rod 19. This braking action counters any self feeding tendency of the circular saw blade 14 while cutting a workpiece supported on the work surface 9 while the saw unit 13 is being manually translated along the guides 16 in the feeding direction 30.However, when the saw unit 14 is reversed along the arm 11 back towards the column 12 after completing a cut, the frictional drag between the pads 29 and the rod 19 tends to move the brake members 27 towards the front wall portions 25 against the biasing action of the springs 28 this causes the wedge like brake members 27 to move out of wedging engagement with the inclined side walls 26 so reducing and substantially eliminating the urging of the members 27 against the sides of the rod 19 by the inclined walls 26.Thus, in the return direction of the saw unit there is effectively no braking action between the brake unit 18 and the rod 19, all owing the saw unit to be returned tawards the column 12 without hindrance.Fig. 6 shows a modification of the brake unit. It should be noted that in Fig. 6 the brake unit has been orientated oppositely to Fig. 4 with the feeding direction 30 re sulting in movement to the right. This brake unit is also symmetrical about the rod l9,and has a base plat e 31 with upstanding forward wall sections 32 and upstanding rear wall sections 33, the latter having adjustment screw 34 threaded thersthrough. On each side of the rod 19, z lever 35 is pivoted at 36 at its outer end to the base plate 31 and has a brake member 38 pivoted at 37 to its inner end.Each brake member 38 has mounted thereon a friction pad 39 similar to the friction pads 29 which is lightly urged against the rod 19 by a coil spring 40 lightly compressed between each forward wallsect ion 32 and the respective lever 35. The adjusting screws 34 are set to adjust the rearmost position of the brake members 38 relative to the rod 19. In operation, when the saw unit is moved in the operating direction 30, the frictional drag between the friction pads 39 and the sides of the rod 19 causes the levers 35 to pivot rearwardly in a pincer type movement, so increasing urging of the friction pads 39 against the rod 19 to effect a braking action between the brake unit and the rod 19.Whereas, when the saw unit is returned in the reverse direction, i.e. opposite to the direction 30, the frictional drag between the friction pads 39 and the rod 19 tends to cause the levers 35 to pivot away from the rod 19 against the bias of the springs 40, i.e. decreasing the urging of the pads 39 against the rod 19, so eliminating braking action between the brake unit and the rod 19.It will be appreciated, in the case of a circular saw in which the saw unit is manually translatable below the work surface with a portion of the saw blade extending through and above the work surface, the rod 19 in the above embodiments is mounted below the work surface in a similar manner to the way in which it is mounted in the arm 11. In a further modification, the rod 19 may be eliminated and replaced by a part of the arm 11 or the underside of the work surface when the saw unit is mounted thereunder extending parallel to the guides 19, for example a longitudinal surface portion of an inner side wall of the arm 11. In this arrangement only one brake member 27 or 38 would be required and its friction pad 29, 39 would be arranged to cooperate with and slide along a longitudinal surface of this part which would take the place of and function the same as the rod 19.The above described embodiments, of course, are not to be construed as limiting the breadth of the present invention. Modifications, and other alternative constructions, will be apparent which are within the scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.