# HERBICIDAL SULFONAMIDES

## Claims
Eine Verbindung der Formel

## Description
This invention relates to novel sulfonylurea herbicidal compounds, agriculturally suitable compositions thereof and a method of using them to control the growth of undesired vegetation. New compounds effective for controlling the growth of undesired vegetation are in constant demand. In the most common situation, such compounds are sought to selectively control the growth of weeds in useful crops such as cotton, rice, corn, wheat and soybeans, to name a few. Unchecked weed growth in such crops can cause significant losses, reducing profit to the farmer and increasing costs to the consumer. In other situations, herbicides are desired which will control all plant growth. Examples of areas in which complete control of all vegetation is desired are areas around fuel storage tanks, ammunition depots and industrial storage areas. There are many products commercially available for these purposes, but the search continues for products which are more effective, less costly and environmentally safe. The sulfonylurea herbicides are an extremely potent class of herbicides discovered within the last few years. A multitude of structural variations exist within this class of herbicides, but they generally consist of a sulfonylurea bridge, SO₂NHCONH , linking two aromatic or heteroaromatic rings. U.S. 4,394,506 discloses herbicidal wherein South African Patent Application 81 4874 discloses herbicidal sulfonamides of formula wherein South African Patent Application 82 5042 discloses herbicidal sulfonamides of formula wherein South African Patent Application 82 5671 discloses herbicidal sulfonamides of formula wherein South African Patent Application 82 7439 discloses herbicidal sulfonamides of formula wherein South African Patent Application 84 2722 discloses herbicidal benzenesulfonamides of formula wherein South African Patent Application 83 0127 discloses herbicidal sulfonamides of formula wherein Still further herbicidal sulfonamides are disclosed in EP A 7,687 and EP A 84,020. Now new herbicidal compounds and compositions thereof have been found that function as general or selective preemergent or postemergent herbicides or as plant growth regulants. The compounds of the invention are compounds of Formula wherein their agriculturally suitable salts Compounds which are preferred for their higher herbicidal activity, greater plant growth regulant activity and or more favorable ease of synthesis are Specifically Preferred for their highest herbicidal activity, greatest plant growth regulant activity and or most favorable ease of synthesis are The invention also is directed to a method of use of the above compounds and compositions thereof as preemergent or postemergent herbicides or as plant growth regulants. Other groups of compounds within the scope of Formula I are those disclosed and claimed in our U.S. Patent Applications Serial Nos. 613,412 699,869 715,511 and 720,702. Copies of these specifications are laid open to public inspection on the file of the present Application. The compounds of Formula I can be prepared by one or more of the following methods described in Equations 1 to 3 and 14. As shown in Equation 1, compounds of Formula I can be prepared by reacting an appropriately substituted sulfonyl isocyanate of Formula 1 with an appropriate amino or methylamino heterocycle of Formula 2 . A is The reaction is best carried out in inert aprotic organic solvents such as dichloromethane, 1,2 dichloroethane, tetrahydrofuran, or acetonitrile, at a temperature between 20 and 85 C. The order of addition is not critical however, it is often convenient to add the sulfonyl isocyanate or a solution of it in the reaction solvent to a stirred suspension of the amine. In some cases, the desired product is insoluble in the reaction solvent at ambient temperature and crystallizes from it in pure form. Products soluble in the reaction solvent are isolated by evaporation of the solvent. Compounds of Formula I then may be purified by trituration of the evaporation residue with solvents such as 1 chlorobutane or ethyl ether and filtration, by recrystallization from mixtures of solvents such as 1,2 dichloroethane, 1 chlorobutane, and heptane, or by chromatography on silica gel. Many of the compounds of Formula I can be prepared by the procedure shown in Equation 2, where A, R, R₁, and R₂ are as previously defined. The reaction shown in Equation 2 is carried out by contacting phenyl carbamates of Formula 3 with aminoheterocycles of Formula 2 in an inert organic solvent such as dioxane or tetrahydrofuran at temperatures of about 20 100 C for a period of about one half to twenty four hours. The product can be isolated by evaporation of the reaction solvent and purified by methods previously described. Phenyl carbamates of Formula 3 can be prepared by the methods described, or modifications thereof known to those skilled in the art, in European Patent Application 81810282.4 Publication No. 44,808 , published January 27, 1982 or South African Patent Application 825042. Alternatively, many of the compounds of Formula I can be prepared by the method described in Equation 3, where A, R₁, and R₂ are as previously defined and R is H. The reaction of Equation 3 can be carried out by contacting equimolar amounts of a sulfonamide of Formula 4 with a heterocyclic phenyl carbamate of Formula 5 in the presence of an equimolar amount of 1,8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene DBU , by methods analogous to those described in South African Patent Application 830441. The phenyl carbamate of Formula 5 can be prepared by methods, or modifications thereof known to those skilled in the art, described in South African Patent Application 825671 and South African Patent Application 825045. Some of the compounds of Formula I may be prepared from compounds of Formula I where R₂ is OH or SH. See Equation 14 for a discussion of this method. The unsubstituted and substituted alkoxy, alkenyloxy, and alkynyloxy benzenesulfonamide intermediates of Formula 4a can be prepared by one or more of the following general methods. As shown in Equation 4, one highly useful general route starts from the phenol 6 . where R₁ is as previously defined, and R₃ is C₁ c₆ alkyl, C₃ C₆ alkenyl, C₃ C₆ alkynyl, CF₂H, CH₂CH₂F, CH₂CHF₂, CH₂CH₂OCH₃, CH₂CH₂SCH₃, CH₂CF₃, CH₂CH₂Cl. M₁ is Na or K. X₁ is Cl, Br, I, A solution or suspension of 4 hydroxy 2 nitrobenzoic acid 6 in a suitable polar aprotic solvent, such as dichloromethane or In cases where R₃ is not the same as R₁, the ester 8 is treated with at least one equivalent of sodium or potassium hydroxide in a mixture of water and a suitable organic cosolvent such as ethanol or To convert carboxylic acid 10 to ester 12 , a solution of it in pyridine is treated sequentially with Alternatively, the carboxylic acid 10 may be converted to ester 12 through the use of excess R₁OH 11 and a strong acid catalyst such as hydrogen chloride as reviewed by C. A. Buehler and D. E. Pearson, The nitrobenzene 12 is reduced to the aniline 13 either by use of iron in acetic acid as reviewed by C. A. Buehler and D. E. Pearson The aniline 13 is converted to the sulfonyl chloride 14 using the general procedures of H. Meerwein, G. Dittmar, B. Gollner, K. Hafner, F. Mensch, O. Steinfort, Finally, the sulfonyl chloride 14 is aminated to give 4a using two equivalents of ammonia in dichloromethane solution at a temperature between 30 and 10 C Equation 4f . Alternatively, many of the sulfonamides 4a can be prepared via a route shown in Equation 5 starting from 2,4 dihydroxybenzoic acid 15 . where M₁, R₁, and X₁ are as previously defined and R₃ is C₁ C₆ alkyl, CH₂CH₂F, CH₂CHF₂, CH₂CH₂OCH₃, CH₂CF₃, CH₂CH₂Cl, CF₂H, or benzyl. Phenol 15 is added to a solution of two equivalents of sodium in anhydrous methanol, ethanol, or amyl alcohol. A little more than one equivalent of R₃X₁ 7 is added and the mixture is heated at reflux for 4 to 24 hours. The solvent is removed The carboxylic acid 16 is converted to ester 17 through the use of excess R₁OH and a strong acid catalyst such as hydrogen chloride as reviewed by C. A. Buehler and D. E. Pearson The phenol 17 is converted to the thiocarbamate 18 through the use of dimethylthiocarbamoyl chloride and 1,4 diazabicyclo 2.2.2 octane DABCO in The thiocarbamate 18 is converted to its isomer 19 by heating according to the general procedure of M. S. Newman and H. A. Karnes To a solution of 19 in anhydrous R₁OH 11 is added little more than one equivalent of NaOR₁ 20 . The mixture is heated at 60 70 C for 0.5 1 hour. The solvent is removed To a mixture of the thiol 21 and at least one equivalent of sodium formate in formic acid is added at least three equivalents of hydrogen peroxide at such a rate as to keep the temperature between 40 and 50 C. The reaction mixture is then heated at 45 55 C for 1 to 5 hours. The excess peroxide is destroyed with sodium sulfite, and the solvent is evaporated. The residue is added to excess thionyl chloride, and a catalytic amount of Finally the sulfonyl chloride 14 is aminated giving the sulfonamide 4a as already described for Equation 4f Equation 5g . Most of the sulfonamides 4a can be prepared via the route shown in Equation 6 starting from 6 hydroxysaccharin 22 . where R₁ and X₁ are as previously defined and R₃ is C₁ C₆ alkyl, C₃ C₆ alkenyl, C₃ C₆ alkynyl, CF₂H, CH₂CH₂F, CH₂CHF₂, CH₂CF₃, CH₂CH₂Cl, CH₂CH₂OCH₃, or CH₂CH₂SCH₃. 6 Hydroxysaccharin 22 can be prepared as described by C. Finzi and M. Colonna, In the method described by Equation 6a, 6 hydroxysaccharin 22 is added to a solution of two equivalents sodium in anhydrous methanol, ethanol, or amyl alcohol. A little more than one equivalent of R₃X₁ 7 is added and the mixture is heated at reflux for 4 to 24 hours. The solvent is removed A solution or suspension of the saccharin 23 in R₁OH 11 is saturated with hydrogen chloride. The mixture is heated at 65 80 C for 1 6 hours. The solvent and hydrogen chloride are evaporated. The residue is dissolved in dichloromethane, washed with aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution, dried over sodium sulfate, and filtered. Evaporation of the solvent affords the sulfonamide 4a Equation 6b . Alternatively, saccharin 22 may be opened to the sulfonamide 24 using the conditions already described for the conversion of 23 to 4a in Equation 6b Equation 6c . To a solution of the sulfonamide 24 in anhydrous methanol, ethanol, amyl alcohol, or a suitable aprotic solvent such as Sulfonamides of Formula 4b can be prepared by the method shown in Equation 7. where M₁, R₁ and X₁ are as previously defined, X₂ is F, Cl, Br or I, and R₄ is C₁ C₆ alkyl, C₃ C₆ alkenyl, C₃ C₆ alkynyl, cyclohexyl, C₆H₅, or CH₂C₆H₅. The hydroxysaccharin 22 is converted to the thiocarbamate 25 through the use of dimethylthiocarbamoyl chloride and 1,4 diazabicyclo 2.2.2 octane DABCO in The thiocarbamate 25 is converted to its isomer 26 by heating according to the general procedure, or modifications thereof known to those skilled in the art, of M. S. Newman and H. A. Karnes To a solution of 26 in anhydrous methanol is added a little more than two equivalents of sodium methoxide. The mixture is heated at 60 70 C for 0.5 1 hour. The solvent is removed The mercaptan 27 is added to a solution of two equivalents sodium in anhydrous methanol, ethanol, or amyl alcohol. A little more than one equivalent of R₄X₁ 28 is added, and the mixture is heated at reflux for 1 to 8 hours. The requisite alkylating, alkenylating, and alkynylating agents R₄X₁ 28 are either known in the art or may be made by a wide variety of methods known in the art. The solvent is removed Alternatively, in many cases, the saccharin 29 may be prepared by treating a halosaccharin 30 in a polar aprotic solvent such as The requisite precursor halosaccharins of Formula 30 may be prepared by conversion of the corresponding 4 halo 2 nitrobenzoic acids to esters of 2 aminosulfonyl 4 halobenzoic acids by use of methods analogous to those described for Equation 4. These esters are closed to the corresponding saccharins of Formula 30 by treatment with DBU according to the general method already described for the preparation of 6 benzyloxysaccharin. The saccharin 29 is then opened to the sulfonamide 4b using the conditions already described for the conversion of 23 to 4a in Equation 6b Equation 7f . Alternatively, saccharin 27 may be opened to the sulfonamide 32 using the conditions already described for the conversion of 23 to 4a in Equation 6b Equation 7g . The thiol 32 is then converted to 4b using the method already described for the conversion of 24 to 4a in Equation 6d Equation 7h . Most sulfonamides of Formula 4b R₁ and R₄ as previously defined can also be prepared by synthetic routes analogous to that described for R₁ R₄ CH₃ in Examples 9 through 15. Sulfonamides of Formula 4c can be prepared by the method shown in Equation 8. where R₁ is as previously defined R₅ is C₁ C₃ alkyl, cyclopropyl, CH₂F, CHF₂, OCF₂H, OCH₂CH₂F, OCH₂CHF₂, OCH₂CF₃, OCH₂CH₂Cl, C₂ C₆ alkyl substituted with 1 to 3 atoms of F or Cl, or C₁ C₄ alkyl substituted with C₁ C₂ alkoxy, Cl, Br, or I R₆ is CH₃ or C₂H₅ R₇ is C₁ C₃ alkyl, cyclopropyl, CH₂F, CHF₂, OCF₂H, OCH₂CH₂F, OCH₂CHF₂, OCH₂CF₃, OCH₂CH₂Cl, C₂ C₆ alkyl substituted with 1 to 3 atoms of F or Cl, or C₁ C₄ alkyl substituted with C₁ C₂ alkoxy or C₁ C₂ alkylthio. M₂ is Na or K. The starting nitrobenzenes 33 are either known in the art or may be made by a wide variety of methods known in the art. Some of these methods include the nitration for a review, see G. Lehmann, H. Eichmann Formation of Carbon Nitrogen Bonds in Another method is the Friedel Crafts acylation of benzene with the appropriate acid halide or anhydride for a review, see G. A. Olah, Still another method involves conversion of the appropriate 4 nitrobenzyl alcohols, aldehyde, or ketones to their mono or difluoro alkyl homologues using the conditions reviewed by G. A. Boswell, Jr., W. C. Ripka, R. M. Scribner, C. W. Tullock, Fluorination by Sulfur Tetrafluoride and C. M. Sharts, W. A. Sheppard Modern Methods to Prepare Monofluoroaliphatic Compounds in The nitrobenzene 33 is reduced to the aniline 34 using the conditions already described for the conversion of 12 to 13 in Equation 4d Equation 8a . The aniline 34 in a suitable solvent such as benzene is treated with at least one equivalent of acetic anhydride and heated at reflux for 8 24 hours. The reaction mixture is cooled, and if the acetanilide 35 crystallizes, it is collected and dried. If it does not crystallize, the benzene solution is washed with 1 The acetanilide 35 is then nitrated using the general conditions reviewed by G. Lehmann and H. Teichmann A slurry of acetanilide 36 in 1 As the nitric acid used in the reaction depicted by Equation 8c can act as an oxidizing agent, substituent R₅ of aniline 37 cannot contain an alkylthio group. But R₅ can be all of the other substituents allowed for R₇ that do not contain an alkylthio group. In these cases the reaction depicted by Equation 8e is skipped, and aniline 39 used in Equation 8f is prepared as aniline 37 . On the other hand in those cases where R₇ does contain an alkylthio group, the alkylthio containing aniline 39 is prepared from a homologous aniline 37 having a R₅ substituent containing a displaceable halogen atom at the position where the alkylthio group is to be placed. To effect the displacement of the halogen by the alkylthio group, a solution of halide 37 in a suitable solvent such as The aniline 39 is then diazotized and subjected to the Sandmeyer reaction according to the general experimental procedure of G. T. Morgan and E. A. Coulson, A suspension of the nitrile 40 in 75 80 aqueous sulfuric acid is heated at 95 100 C for 2 5 hours. Then over 1 2 hours and at a temperature of 80 100 C 1.5 2.5 equivalents of sodium nitrite is added in small portions. The heating is continued 0.5 1 hour longer, then the mixture is cooled and poured onto excess ice. If the carboxylic acid 41 crystallizes, it is collected, rinsed with ice water and dried. If it does not crystallize, the aqueous mixture is extracted with dichloromethane. The dichloromethane solution is extracted with aqueous 10 sodium carbonate solution. The aqueous extract is made acidic with concentrated hydrochloric acid. If the carboxylic acid 41 then crystallizes, it is collected, rinsed with ice water and dried. If it does not crystallize, the aqueous solution is extracted with ether. The ether extracts are dried over magnesium sulfate and filtered. Evaporation of the solvent leaves carboxylic acid 41 Equation 8g . By use of the methods previously described, carboxylic acid 41 can be converted to sulfonamide 4c Equation 8h . Sulfonamides of Formula 4c where R₇ is C₁ C₄ alkyl substituted with a C₁ C₂ alkylsulfinyl or alkylsulfonyl group can be prepared by peracid oxidation of the corresponding sulfonamides of Formula 4c where R₇ is a C₁ C₄ alkyl substituted with a C₁ C₂ alkylthio group using methods analogous to those described for the preparation of sulfinyl sulfonamides of Formula 4d,n 1 and sulfonyl sulfonamides of Formula 4d,n 2 in Equation 9 The sulfinyl sulfonamides of Formula 4d, n 1 and sulfonyl sulfonamides of Formula 4d, n 2 can be be prepared from the corresponding thio sulfonamides of Formula 4b as shown in Equation 9. where R₁ and R₄ are as previously defined and n is 1 or 2. To prepare the sulfinyl sulfonamides of Formula 4d,n 1 a solution of one equivalent of a peracid, such as 3 chloroperoxybenzoic acid, in an inert solvent, such as dichloromethane, is added to a stirred solution of the appropriate thio sulfonamide 4b in an inert solvent, such as a mixture of dichloromethane and tetrahydrofuran at 0 5 C. The mixture is then warmed to 20 40 C. When thin layer chromatography has revealed the sulfonamide 4b to have been oxidized, the mixture is washed in turn with 5 aqueous sodium sulfite solution, saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution, water, and brine, and then dried MgSO₄ . Evaporation of the solvent then leaves the sulfinyl sulfonamide of Formula 4d, n 1 . To prepare sulfonyl sulfonamides of Formula 4d, n 2 a solution of more than two equivalents only two equivalents when R₄ is alkenyl or alkynyl of a peracid, such as 3 chloroperoxybenzoic acid, in an inert solvent, such as 1,2 dichloroethane, is added to a stirred mixture of the appropriate thio sulfonamide 4b in an inert solvent, such as 1,2 dichloroethane, containing 1 5 mol of a free radical inhibitor, such as 4,4 thiobis 6 Sulfonyl isocyanates 1 are prepared from the corresponding sulfonamides 4 by one of the following two general methods. where R₁ and R₂ are as previously defined and 4 is 4a , 4b , 4c or 4d . The sulfonamide 4 and an alkyl isocyanate e.g., If desired, the alkyl isocyanate sulfonamide adduct can be made and isolated before reaction with the phosgene. In this case, the sulfonamide 4 , alkyl isocyanate, and anhydrous base e.g., K₂CO₃ in a polar, aprotic solvent e.g. acetone, butanone, or acetonitrile are mixed and heated under reflux for 1 to 6 hours. The reaction mixture is then diluted with water, and the pH is adjusted to about 3 with acid e.g. HCl, H₂SO₄ . The adduct is filtered out and dried, and then reacted with phosgene as described above. This procedure modification is especially useful when sulfonamide 4 is high melting and has low solubility in the phosgenation solvent. Sulfonyl isocyanates 1 can also be prepared by the following method. where R₁ and R₂ are as previously defined and 4 is 4a , 4b , 4c or 4d . The sulfonamide 4 is heated at reflux in an excess of thionyl chloride. The reaction is continued until the sulfonamide protons are no longer detectable in the proton magnetic resonance spectrum. From 16 hours to 5 days is typically sufficient for complete conversion to the thionylamide 42 Equation 11a . The thionyl chloride is evaporated and the residue is treated with an inert solvent e.g. toluene containing at least one equivalent typically 2 3 equivalents of phosgene. A catalytic amount of pyridine typically 0.1 equivalent is added, and the mixture is heated to about 60 140 C. with 80 100 preferred. Conversion to the isocyanate 1 is usually substantially complete within 15 minutes to 3 hours Equation 11b . The mixture is then cooled and filtered, and the solvent is evaporated, leaving the sulfonyl isocyanate 1 . The heterocyclic amines of Formula 2 below are either known, disclosed in this application, or can be prepared by obvious methods by one skilled in the art. For a review of the synthesis and reactions of 2 amino and 2 methylaminopyrimidines 2, Z CH see Heterocyclic amines, wherein X or Y is OCF₂H, may be prepared as described in U.S. Patent 4,478,635. In some cases, heterocycles of Formula 2 may be more easily prepared with R being H than with R being CH₃. Many heterocycles 2, R CH₃ can be prepared from the corresponding heterocycles 2, R H by one or more of the following two methods. where A is as previously defined. In this method, a solution or slurry of the appropriate heterocycle 2, R H in a suitable aprotic solvent e.g., tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, glyme at 0 30 C is treated with two equivalents of sodium hydride. After gas evolution ceases, the reaction mixture is treated with one equivalent of dimethyl carbonate and stirred at 20 30 C for 8 to 24 hours to provide a suspension of the sodium salt 43 Equation 12a . The reaction mixture containing 43 is treated with at least two equivalents of iodomethane and then heated at 60 80 C for 8 to 24 hours. The mixture is cooled and filtered, and the solvent is evaporated. The residue is taken up in dichloromethane, washed with water, and the solvent is evaporated, leaving the N methyl carbamate 44, R CH₃ Equation 12b . The carbamate 44, R CH₃ is dissolved in anhydrous, alcohol free chloroform saturated with propylene gas. Slightly more than one equivalent typically 1.1 1.2 equivalents of iodotrimethylsilane is added and the stirred solution is heated at 50 60 C for 2 to 4 hours. The mixture is cooled and two equivalents of methanol is added. The solvent is evaporated and the residue is taken up in methanol. The mixture is carefully neutralized with 10 sodium methoxide in methanol, and then the solvent is evaporated. The residue is triturated with ice water. If a precipitate forms, it is filtered out, rinsed with ice water and dried to provide 2, R CH₃ . If no precipitate forms, the solution is saturated with sodium chloride and extracted with ethyl acetate. Evaporation of the solvent leaves heterocycle 2, R CH₃ Equation 12c . Alternatively, the following two step procedure is useful in many cases. where A is as previously defined. A solution of the amine 2, R H in concentrated hydrochloric acid is treated with sodium nitrite solution and the chloro compound 45 is isolated in the usual manner by filtration of the acidic solution Equation 13a . A representative procedure is described by Bee and Rose in The heterocycle 45 is then treated with at least two equivalents of methylamine in a suitable inert solvent e.g. tetrahydrofuran, glyme, or diglyme at a temperature between 20 and 80 C for 1 18 hours Equation 13b . The reaction mixture is then cooled and filtered. Evaporation of the solvent leaves 2, R CH₃ contaminated with a little CH₃NH ₃Cl salt. The product may be purified by trituration with ice water or by dissolution in dichloromethane, followed by washing with a small amount of water, drying, and evaporation of solvent. Further purification may be accomplished by recrystallization or column chromatography on silica gel. As an alternative to the methods already described in which the sulfonamides of Formulae 4a and 4b are fully elaborated prior to construction of the urea bridge of compounds of Formula I, many compounds of Formula Ia may be prepared by the method described in Equation 14. where R₁, X, X₁, Y and Z are as previously defined, W is O or S, and R₈ is C₁ C₆ alkyl, C₃ C₆ alkenyl, C₃ C₆ alkynyl, CH₂CH₂F, CH₂CHF₂, CH₂CH₂Cl, CH₂CH₂OCH₃, or CH₂CH₂SCH₃, when W is O, and R₈ is C₁ C₆ alkyl, C₃ C₆ alkenyl, or C₃ C₆ alkynyl, cyclohexyl, or CH₂C₆H₅ when W is S. In this method a solution of the appropriate compound of Formula 46 in a polar solvent such as a mixture of acetonitrile and The following examples further illustrate the synthesis of this invention. Hydrogen chloride was bubbled into a stirred solution of 4 ethoxy 2 hydroxybenzoic acid 10.10 g, 0.554 mol in methanol 2000 mL until the solution was saturated. The solution was heated under reflux for 3 days and then cooled to 15 C. This caused the product to crystallize out. The crystals were collected, rinsed with methanol and hexanes, and dried. Methyl 4 ethoxy 2 hydroxybenzoate was obtained as a pale amber solid 49.3 g melting at 77 78 C. PMR CDCl₃, 90 MHz δ 11.90 slightly broadened s, 1H, OH 7.76 d, 1H, H ortho to CO₂CH₃ 6.35 6.55 m, 2H, other aryl H s 4.06 q, 2H, O Triethylamine 76.6 mL, 0.550 mol was added via syringe to a stirred solution of methyl 4 ethoxy 2 hydroxybenzoate 49.3 g, 0.251 mol , 4 dimethylaminopyridine 3.06 g, 0.025 mol , and dimethylthiocarbamoyl chloride 54.4 g, 0.440 mol in dry dichloromethane 411 mL . The reaction solution was heated at reflux three days and then allowed to stand at room temperature overnight. It was washed with hydrochloric acid 1 PMR CDCl₃, 200 MHz δ 7.96 d, 1H, H ortho to CO₂CH₃ 7.81 dd, 1H, H para to OCSN 6.62 d, 1H, H ortho to OCSN 4.08 q, 2H, O Methyl 2 dimethylamino thioxomethoxy 4 ethoxybenzoate 28.3 g, 0.100 mol was heated under nitrogen at 220 C for 1.5 hours. Thin layer chromatography 6 3 1 CH₃Cl₂ hexanes ether, UV showed a very faint spot at a R Crude product from a similar but smaller scale run was chromatographed on a column of silica gel using 4 1 ether hexanes as eluant. Fractions containing product R Methanolic sodium methoxide 4.9 Hydrogen peroxide 30 , 9.79M, 30.7 mL, 300 mmol was added dropwise to a stirred solution of methyl 4 ethoxy 2 mercaptobenzoate 18.2 g, 85.7 mmol and sodium formate 11.7 g, 172 mmol in formic acid 171.4 mL . Through the use of an ice bath, the internal temperature was held to 40 50 C during the first half of the hydrogen peroxide addition and 45 50 C during the second half of the addition. After completion of the addition and cessation of the exothermic reaction, the mixture was heated at 45 55 C for two hours. The excess hydrogen peroxide was destroyed with sodium sulfite, the solution was filtered, and the solvent was rotary evaporated. The residue was slurried in toluene and rotary evaporated. The process was repeated to give the sodium sulfonate salt as a moist white crystalline solid 21.7 g . Without further purification or characterization, the sodium sulfonate salt was added portionwise to stirred thionyl chloride 150 mL, 2.1 mmol . Anhydrous Liquified ammonia 4.4 mL, 180 mmol was added to a stirred solution of methyl 2 chlorosulfonyl 4 ethoxybenzoate 22.1 g, 79.3 mmol in dichloromethane 221 mL at 70 C. The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to 10 C and was held at this temperature for 30 minutes. The mixture was then poured into water 221 mL . More water and dichloromethane were used for rinsing, and tetrahydrofuran ca. 40 mL was also added. The layers were shaken and separated, and the aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 2 x 221 mL . The combined dichloromethane solutions were washed with water 221 mL , and the aqueous wash was back extracted with dichloromethane ca. 120 mL . The combined dichloromethane solutions were dried Na₂SO₄ , and filtered. Rotary evaporation of the solvent left crude product as an off white crystalline solid 18.1 g . This was dissolved in hot methanol ca. 200 mL and hot filtered. The solution was boiled down to a volume corresponding to 3 mL g methanol. After seeding and cooling with the aid of an ice bath, the crystals were collected, rinsed with ice cold methanol and hexanes, and dried. Methyl 2 aminosulfonyl 4 ethoxybenzoate 15.3 g was obtained as white crystalline needles melting at 146 148 C. PMR CDCl₃, 200 mHz δ7.91 d, 1H, H ortho to CO₂CH₃ 7.68 d, 1H, H ortho to SO₂NH₂ 7.04 dd, 1H, H para to SO₂NH₂ 5.91 broad s, 2H, NH₂ 4.14 q, 2H, O A solution of methyl 2 aminosulfonyl 4 ethoxybenzoate 7.56 g, 29.2 mmol , To a slurry of 4,6 dimethoxy 1,3,5 triazin 2 amine 0.46 g, 2.9 mmol in dry dichloromethane 5 mL was added a solution of methyl 4 ethoxy 2 isocyanatosulfonyl benzoate crude, ca. 1.2 g, 4.2 mmol in dichloromethane 5 mL . The reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 1.5 hours, during which time the solid dissolved. On stirring at room temperature overnight a new solid formed. The solvent was rotary evaporated, leaving the crude product as a white solid 1.5 g . This was dissolved in warm 1,2 dichloroethane and chromatographed on a column of silica gel using as eluant 15 1, 10 1, and finally 7 1 dichloromethane ether, all containing 2 mL L acetic acid. The appropriate fractions were diluted with toluene and rotary evaporated to give a solid. This was dissolved in minimal warm dichloromethane, diluted with 1 chlorobutane, and rotary evaporated to give a crystalline solid. This was slurried in hexanes, collected, rinsed with 1 1 1 chlorobutane hexanes and hexanes, and dried. The product was obtained as a white crystalline powder 0.98 g melting at 181 183 C. PMR CDCl₃, 200 MHz δ12.15 slightly broadened s, 1H, SO₂NHCO 7.89 d, 1H, H ortho to SO₂NH 7.77 d, 1H, H ortho to CO₂CH₃ 7.45 slightly broadened s, 1H, CONH Het 7.11 dd, 1H, H para to SO₂NH 4.17 q, 2H, O 4 Amino 2 nitrobenzoic acid 20.0 g, 110 mmol was added to aqueous sulfuric acid 32.8 mL H₂O 24.0 mL conc. H₂SO₄ . The stirred mixture was heated until all of the aniline dissolved, and then was plunged into an ice bath to precipitate the anilinium salt as suspension of very small crystals. Portions of aqueous sodium nitrite 8.8 g, 128 mmol in 18.4 mL H₂O were then added over one hour to the stirred reaction mixture maintained at 5 to 0 C. The diazotization mixture was then poured portionwise into a mixture of sodium hydroxide 24.4 g, 610 mmol , methanethiol 33.6 mL, 605 mmol cupric sulfate 17.6 g, 110 mmol , and sodium acetate 55.2 g, 673 mmol in 140 mL of water cooled with the aid of an ice bath. The addition was exothermic and accompanied by copious gas evolution. A suspension of tan yellow solid formed. The mixture was heated to 60 C, and then was allowed to cool to room temperature. Dichloromethane 200 mL and tetrahydrofuran 20 mL were stirred in. Concentrated hydrochloric acid was added to bring the pH below 1. The mixture was suction filtered through Celite , with additional dichloromethane used for rinsing. The layers were separated, and the aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 2 x 50 mL . The combined dichloromethane solutions were dried Na₂SO₄ and suction filtered through Celite . The solvent was rotary evaporated. The residue was dissolved in minimal acetone, diluted with toluene, and evaporated. The process was repeated to leave crude 4 methylthio 2 nitrobenzoic acid as an orange solid 20.4 g melting at 165 168 C. This was used in the next step without further purification. PMR DMSO To a stirred solution of 4 methylthio 2 nitrobenzoic acid 24.4 g, 114 mmol in dry pyridine 265 mL maintained at 5 C under nitrogen was added The reaction solution was stirred at room temperature for one hour and then poured into ice water 1060 mL . Ether 530 mL was stirred in, and the layers were separated. The aqueous layer was extracted with ether 2 x 530 mL . The combined ether solutions were washed with 10 aqueous sodium hydroxide solution 2 x 530 mL , dried MgSO₄ , and filtered. The solvent was rotary evaporated. The residue was taken up in toluene, which was subsequently rotary evaporated. This process was repeated once more to give a thick brown oil. This oil was chromatographed on a column of silica gel using mixtures of hexanes and ether first 2 1 then 3 2 as eluting solvents. Fractions containing product R PMR CDCl₃, 200 MHz δ 7.71 d, 1H, H ortho to CO₂CH₃ 7.55 d, 1H, H ortho to NO₂ 7.41 dd, 1H, H para to NO₂ 3.90 s, 3H, CO₂CH₃ 2.56 s, 3H, SCH₃ . IR Nujol 1709 vs, C O cm ¹. A mixture of methyl 4 methylthio 2 nitrobenzoate 11.3 g, 49.7 mmol and 5 platinum sulfide on carbon catalyst 0.7 g in methyl acetate 40 mL was hydrogenated at 750 psi and 75 C until hydrogen uptake ceased. The mixture was filtered through Celite , and the filtrate solvent was rotary evaporated, leaving methyl 2 amino 4 methylthio benzoate as a slightly tan crystalline solid 8.7 g melting at 57 59 C. PMR CDCl₃, 200 MHz δ 7.74 d, 1H, H ortho to CO₂CH₃ 6.50 dd, 1H, H para to NH₂ 6.44 dd, 1H, H ortho to NH₂ 5.75 broad s, 2H, NH₂ 3.85 s, 3H, CO₂CH₃ 2.46 s, 3H, SCH₃ . IR Nujol 3422 m, NH 3312 m, NH 1650 s, C O cm ¹. To a stirred aqueous sulfuric acid solution 7.2 mL concentrated H₂SO₄ 51.6 mL H₂O maintained at 5 to O C was added alternately portions of a solution of methyl 2 amino 4 methylthio benzoate 12.8 g, 64.9 mL in glacial acetic acid 6.4 mL and portions of aqueous sodium nitrite 4.9 g. 71 mmol in 7.8 mL H₂O . The diazotization mixture was then poured portionwise into a mixture of cupric chloride dihydrate 5.5 g, 32 mmol , concentrated hydrochloric acid 13.0 mL and liquified sulfur dioxide 5.5 mL, 129 mmol in glacial acetic acid 51.6 mL and dichloromethane 64.6 mL at 0 C. Using dry ice filled Dewar condensers, the coupling mixture was heated at reflux for 45 minutes. The reaction mixture was then poured into water ca. 400 mL with additional dichloromethane ca. 60 mL used for rinsing. The layers were shaken and separated, and the aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 3 x 50 mL . The combined dichloromethane solutions were washed with water ca. 100 mL . Water 25 mL was added to the dichloromethane solution, and with vigorous stirring sodium bicarbonate was added until foaming ceased. The mixture was diluted with water ca. 40 mL , and the layers were separated. The dichloromethane layer was washed with water ca. 2 x 60 mL and dried MgSO₄ . Rotary evaporation of the solvent afforded crude methyl 2 chlorosulfonyl 4 methylthio benzoate as a yellow semisolid 10.0 g . This was immediately used in the next reaction step without further purification or characterization. Liquified ammonia 1.7 mL, 68 mmol was added to a stirred solution of methyl 2 chlorosulfonyl 4 methylthio benzoate 10 g, 36 mmol in dichloromethane 100 mL at 70 C. The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to 10 C and was held at this temperature for 10 minutes. The mixture was then poured into water 100 mL . More water and dichloromethane were used for rinsing. The layers were shaken and separated, an the aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 2 x 50 mL . The combined dichloromethane solutions were washed with water 100 mL , dried Na₂SO₄ , and filtered through Celite . Rotary evaporation of the solvent left crude product as a solid 9.0 g . This was dissolved in dichloromethane and suspended on silica gel 27 g . The material was chromatographed on a column of silica gel using dichloromethane hexanes ether 6 3 1 then 6 2 2 as eluant. Rotary evaporation of the appropriate fractions left a solid. This was dissolved in dichloromethane, diluted with hexanes, and rotary evaporated to give a crystalline solid. This was slurried in hexanes, collected, rinsed with 1 1 1 chlorobutane hexanes and hexanes, and dried. Methyl 2 aminosulfonyl 4 methylthio benzoate was obtained as a white crystalline powder 6.7 g melting at 123 125 C. PMR CDCl₃, 200 MHz δ 7.97 d, 1H, H ortho to SO₂NH₂ 7.82 d, 1H, H ortho to CO₂CH₃ 7.39 dd, 1 H, H para to SO₂NH₂ 5.86 s, 2H, NH₂ 3.97 s, 3H, CO₂CH₃ 2.56 s, 3H, SCH₃ . IR Nujol 3322 m, NH₂ 3245 m, NH₂ 1700 s, C O cm ¹. A solution of methyl 2 aminosulfonyl 4 methylthio benzoate 5.23 g, 20.0 mmol , To a slurry of 4,6 dimethoxy 1,3 pyridimin 2 amine 0.36 g, 2.32 mmol in dry dichloromethane 4 mL was added a solution of methyl 2 isocyanatosulfonyl 4 methylthio benzoate crude, ca. 0.95 g, 3.3 mL in dichloromethane 5 mL . The reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 2.5 hours, during which time a new solid formed. On stirring at room temperature overnight a new solid formed. The mixture was diluted with a solution of 1 1 1 chlorobutane hexanes 9 mL , and the solid was collected, rinsed with 1 chlorobutane and hexanes, and dried. The product was obtained as a white crystalline powder 0.92 g melting at 201 202 C. PMR CDCl₃, 200 MHz δ 12.57 slightly broadened s, 1H, SO₂NHCO 8.20 d, 1H. H ortho to SO₂NH 7.66 d, 1H, H ortho to CO₂CH₃ 7.43 dd, 1H, H para to SO₂NH 7.18 slightly broadened s, 1H, CONH Het 5.79 s, 1H, Het 5 H 4.01 s, 6H, Het OCH₃ 3.87 s, 3H, CO₂CH₃ 2.58 s, 3H, SCH₃ . IR Nujol 1721 vs, ester C O 1698 s, urea, C O cm ¹. To a slurry of 4 difluoromethoxy 6 methoxypyrimidin 2 amine 0.56 g, 2.92 mmol in dry dichloromethane 5 mL was added a solution of methyl 4 ethoxy 2 isocyanatosulfonyl benzoate crude, ca. 5.6 mL in dichloromethane 5 mL . The reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 3 hours, during which time the solid dissolved. On stirring at room temperature for 12 hours a new solid formed. The crude reaction mixture was chromatographed directly on a column of silica gel using as eluant 40 1, 20 1, and finally 10 1 dichloromethane ether, all containing 2 mL L acetic acid. The appropriate fractions were diluted with toluene and rotary evaporated to give a solid. The solid was slurried in hexanes, collected, washed with butyl chloride, 1 1 butyl chloride hexanes, hexanes and air dried. The product was a white crystalline solid melting at 195 196 C. PMR CDCl₃, 200 MHz δ12.02 bs, 1H 7.91 d, 1H 7.78 d, 1H 7.52 t, 1H 7.34 bs, 1H 7.09 dd, 1H 5.97 s, 1H 4.17 q, 2H 4.12 s, 3H 3.87 s, 3H 1.46 t, 3H . IR Nujol 1722 vs, C O cm ¹. Using the procedures and examples shown above, the compounds in Tables I V can be prepared. Useful agricultural formulations of the compounds of Formula I can be prepared in conventional ways. They include dusts, granules, pellets, solutions, suspensions, emulsions, wettable powders, emulsifiable concentrates and the like. Many of these may be applied directly. Sprayable formulations can be extended in suitable media and used at spray volumes of from a few liters to several hundred liters per hectare. High strength compositions are primarily used as intermediates for further formulation. The formulations, broadly, con tain about 0.1 to 99 by weight of active ingre dient s and at least one of a about 0.1 to 20 surfactant s and b about 1 to 99.9 solid or li quid inert diluent s . More specifically, they will contain these ingredients in the following approximate proportions Lower or higher levels of active ingredient can, of course, be present depending on the intended use and the physical properties of the compound. Higher ratios of surfactant to active ingredient are sometimes desirable, and are achieved by incorporation into the formulation or by tank mixing. Typical solid diluents are described in Watkins, et al., Handbook of Insecticide Dust Diluents and Carriers , 2nd Ed., Dorland Books, Caldwell, New Jersey, but other solids, either mined or manufactured, may be used. The more absorptive diluents are preferred for wettable powders and the denser ones for dusts. Typical liquid diluents and solvents are described in Marsden, Solvents Guide, 2nd Ed., Interscience, New York, 1950. Solubility under 0.1 is preferred for suspension concentrates solution concentrates are preferably stable against phase separation at 0 C. McCutcheon s Detergents and Emulsifiers Annual , MC Publishing Corp., Ridgewood, New Jersey, as well as Sisely and Wood, Encyclopedia of Surface Active Agents , Chemical Publishing Co., Inc., New York, 1964, list surfactants and recommended uses. All formulations can contain minor amounts of additives to reduce foaming, caking, corrosion, microbiological growth, etc. The methods of making such compositions are well known. Solutions are prepared by simply mixing the ingredients. Fine solid compositions are made by blending and, usually, grinding as in a hammer or fluid energy mill. Suspensions are prepared by wet milling see, for example, Littler, U.S. Patent 3,060,084 . Granules and pellets may be made by spraying the active material upon preformed granular carriers or by agglomeration techniques. See J. E. Browning, Agglomeration , For further information regarding the art of formulation, see for example In the following examples, all parts are by weight unless otherwise indicated. The ingredients are blended, hammer milled until all the solids are essentially under 50 microns, reblended, and packaged. The ingredients are blended, coarsely hammer milled and then air milled to produce particles essentially all below 10 microns in diameter. The product is reblended before packaging. A slurry of wettable powder containing 25 solids is sprayed on the surface of attapulgite granules in a double cone blender. The granules are dried and packaged. The ingredients are blended, hammer milled and then moistened with about 12 water. The mixture is extruded as cylinders about 3 mm diameter which are cut to produce pellets about 3 mm long. These may be used directly after drying, or the dried pellets may be crushed to pass a U.S.S. No. 20 sieve 0.84 mm openings . The granules held on a U.S.S. No. 40 sieve 0.42 mm openings may be packaged for use and the fines recycled. The ingredients are ground together in a sand mill until the solid particles have been reduced to under about 5 microns. The resulting thick suspension may be applied directly, but preferably after being extended with oils or emulsified in water. The ingredients are thoroughly blended. After grinding in a hammer mill to produce particles essentially all below 100 microns, the material is reblended and sifted through a U.S.S. No. 50 sieve 0.3 mm opening and packaged. The active ingredient is dissolved in the solvent and the solution is sprayed upon dedusted granules in a double cone blender. After spraying of the solution has been completed, the blender is allowed to run for a short period and then the granules are packaged. The ingredients are blended and ground together in a sand mill to produce particles essentially all under 5 microns in size. The ester is added directly to the water with stirring to produce the solution, which may then be packaged for use. The active ingredient is dissolved in a solvent and the solution is sprayed upon dedusted granules in a double cone blender. After spraying of the solution has been completed, the material is warmed to evaporate the solvent. The material is allowed to cool and then packaged. The ingredients are blended and milled to pass through a 100 mesh screen. This material is then added to a fluid bed granulator, the air flow is adjusted to gently fluidize the material, and a fine spray of water is sprayed onto the fluidized material. The fluidization and spraying are continued until granules of the desired size range are made. The spraying is stopped, but fluidization is continued, optionally with heat, until the water content is reduced to the desired level, generally less than 1 . The material is then discharged, screened to the desired size range, generally 14 100 mesh 1410 149 microns , and packaged for use. The ingredients are blended and ground in a hammer mill to produce a material essentially all passing a U.S.S. No. 50 screen 0.3 mm opening . The concentrate may be formulated further if necessary. The ingredients are blended and ground in a hammer mill to produce particles essentially all below 100 microns. The material is sifted through a U.S.S. No. 50 screen and then packaged. The ingredients are thoroughly blended, coarsely hammer milled and then air milled to produce particles essentially all below 10 microns in size. The material is reblended and then packaged. The ingredients are combined and ground together in a sand mill to produce particles essentially all below 5 microns. The product can be used directly, extended with oils, or emulsified in water. The active ingredient is blended with attapulgite and then passed through a hammer mill to produce particles substantially all below 200 microns. The ground concentrate is then blended with powdered pyrophyllite until homogeneous. The ingredients are combined and stirred to produce a solution which can be emulsified in water for application. The ingredients are blended, hammer milled until all the solids are essentially under 50 microns, reblended, and packaged. The ingredients are blended, coarsely hammer milled and then air milled to produce particles essentially all below 10 microns in diameter. The product is reblended before packaging. A slurry of wettable powder containing 25 solids is sprayed on the surface of attapulgite granules while tumbling in a double cone blender. The granules are dried and packaged. Test results indicate that the compounds of the present invention are highly active preemergent or postemergent herbicides or plant growth regulants. Many of them have utility for broad spectrum pre and or postemergence weed control in areas where complete control of all vegetation is desired, such as around fuel storage tanks, ammunition depots, industrial storage areas, parking lots, drive in theaters, around billboards, highway and railroad structures. Some of the compounds have utility for selective weed control in crops such as wheat, barley and cotton. Alternatively, the subject compounds are useful to modify plant growth. The rates of application for the compounds of the invention are determined by a number of factors, including their use as plant growth modifiers or as herbicides, the crop species involved, the types of weeds to be controlled, weather and climate, formulations selected, mode of application, amount of foliage present, etc. In general terms, the subject compounds should be applied at levels of around 0.05 to 10 kg ha, the lower rates being suggested for use on lighter soils and or those having a low organic matter content, for plant growth modification or for situations where only short term persistence is required. The compounds of the invention may be used in combination with any other commercial herbicide examples of which are those of the triazine, triazole, uracil, urea, amide, diphenylether, carbamate and bipyridylium types. The herbicidal properties of the subject compounds were discovered in a number of greenhouse tests. The test procedures and results follow. Seeds of crabgrass Two round pans 25 cm diameter by 12.5 cm deep were filled with Woodstown sandy loam soil. One pan was planted with blackgrass Two round pans 25 cm diameter by 12.5 cm deep were filled with Woodstown sandy loam soil. One pan was planted with blackgrass, sugar beets, nutsedge, crabgrass, sicklepod, teaweed, jimsonweed, velvetleaf, and giant foxtail. The other pan was planted with wheat, cotton, rice, corn, soybeans, wild oats, cocklebur, morningglory, johnsongrass, and barnyardgrass. The two pans were sprayed preemergence with the chemicals dissolved in a non phytotoxic solvent. Treated plants and controls were maintained in the greenhouse for 28 days, then all treated plants were compared to controls and visually rated for plant response. Response ratings are based on a scale of 0 to 10 where 0 no effect, and 10 complete control. The type of response is indicated by letters as described for Test 1. A dash response means no test. Response ratings are contained in Table 2. Two ten inch in diameter plastic pans lined with polyethylene liners were filled with prepared Fallsington silt loam soil. One pan was planted with seeds of wheat The compound was diluted in a nonphytotoxic solvent and sprayed over the top of the pans. An untreated control and a solvent alone were included for comparison. All treatments were maintained in the greenhouse for 20 days after which time the treatments were compared to the controls and the effects visually rated. The recorded data are presented in Table 3.