# High temperature sample probe.

## Abstract
A high temperature sample probe for use in supplying high temperature gas samples from a high temperature en vironment 12 to a gas analyzer 16 having a mounting flange 28 and an inlet port 20 , comprising a high temper ature filter 22 made for example of sintered metal, threaded to the inlet port 20 . A high temperature resistant tube 44 extends to the high temperature environment 12 and at least one additional stainless steel pipe 40 is connected between the tube 44 and the mounting flange 28 of the analyzer 16 for conducting sample gases from the high temperature environment 12 to the filter 22 . The filter 22 is disposed within a space defined by the pipe 40 . The pipe 40 is suf ficiently long so that the temperature of the sample falls to a range which will not destroy the filter while still being above the dew point temperature of vapours in the sample.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A high temper8ture sample probe for a gas analyzer 16 having a mounting flange 28 with an inlet port 20 characterised by a filter 22 having one closed end 24 and an opposite end 26 connected to the mounting flange 28 and communicating with the inlet port 20 a heat resistant tube 44 having one open end 46 to communicate with a high temperature environment 12 and an opposite open end mounting means 8 engaged around the tube 44 for connecting the analyzer 16 to a container 14 for the high temperature environment 12 and cooling passage means 40, 60 connected between the tube 44 and the analyzer mounting flange 28 for defining a cooling passage, the filter 22 being disposed in the cooling passage 40, 60 and the cooling passage being sufficiently long to permit cooling of a sample moving into said one open end 46 of the tube 44 before it reaches the filter 22 . 2. A sample probe according to claim 1, wherein the mounting means comprises a large diameter pipe 48 connected between the mounting flange 28 and the container 4 . 3. A sample probe according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the cooling passage means comprises a pipe 4 connected to the tube 44 at said opposite open end of the tube by high temperature resistant cement 42 , the pipe 82i being threaded to the analyzer mounting flange 28 . A A sample probe according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the tube 44 is made of silicon carbide alloy and the filter 22 is made of intered metal. 5. A sample be according to calim 2, wherein the mounting means includes an intermediate flange 29 connected to the large diameter pipe 48 and a bracket 27 connected between the intermediate flange 29 and the analyzer mounting flange 28 , the bracket 27 establishing a selected angle between the intermediate flange 29 and the mounting flange 28 , the cooling passage means comprising a first nipple 66, 68 connected to the heat resistant tube 44 and to the intermediate flange 29 , a pipe 60 connected to the mounting flange 28 , forming the cooling passage means and defining a space containing the filter 22 , and a T connection 64 connected between the first nipple 66, 68 and the pipe 60 . 6. A sample probe according to claim 5, including a further nipple 78 connected to the T connection 64 and a valve 76 connected to the further nipple 78 for providing access to the cooling passage 60 . 7. A sample probe according to claim 6, including a union 72 in the first nipple dividing the first nipple into a first part 68 connected to the tube 44 and a second part 66 connected to the T connection 64 , the first part 68 being threaded to the intermediate flange 29 for removal of the tube 44 from the mounting means 48 . 8. A sample probe according to claim 6, including heating means 62 connected to the pipe 60 for heating the cooling passage to maintain a temperature of the sample entering the filter 22 above a dew point temperature of vapours in the sample.

## Description
HIGH TEMPERATURE SAMPLE PROBE The invention relates to gas analyzers and particularly to a sample probe which can be used to provide gases to an analyzer from a high temperature environment. Probes for gas analyzers have been previously proposed to conduct gases to be analyzed from an environment containing the gases to an analyzer for analyzing the gases. As the gas analyzers become more complicated, it is increasingly important to filter out small particles in a sample stream before the gas of the stream can be analyzed. Filters for use at temperatures below 8150C 15000F are well known. Composite metal filters are used with newly designed flexible ceramic filter materials. In applications where temperatures exceed 8150C 15000F , however, such as in a steel mill soaking pit, metal loses its strength and ceramic fibres become brittle with the passage of time. Filters constructed from alumina A12O3 ceramic tubes covered with flexible ceramic fibre material have been tested in soaking pits. These have resulted in fractures of the tubes and embrittlement of the fibres. U.S. Patent 4,161,883 utilizes an internal filter which requires almost continuous blowback. Liquids in a sample to be analyzed must be condensed out before the sample is providedc to the analyzer. U.S. Patent 4,079,622 discloses a jacketed sample probe for cooling a sample so that smoke can be collected on filter paper. Only a batch sample can thus be provided and no continuous supply of a sample is possible. Other sample probes are disclosed by U.S. Patents 3,549,327 and 4,147,500. Both advocate condensing liquids from the sample before the sample can be analyzed. A wet analysis of a sample is thus not possible in the prior art sampling probes. Analysis of the condensed out liquids thus cannot be made, such as analysis of acids which may be in the original sample but which are condensed out before the sample is provided to the analyzer. The Invention has among its objects to provide a sample probe which includes a filter and which can be utilized to sample gases from a high temperature envirw, such as 8 steel mill soaking pit, were the atmosphere may be at 1650 C C3,O O0F . According to the invention there is provided a high temperature sample probe for a gas analyzer having a mounting flange with an inlet port, characterised by a filter having one closed end and an opposite end connected to the mounting flange and communicating with the inlet port a heat resistant tube having one open end to communicate with a high temperature enviroiinent and an opposite open end mounting means engaged around the tube for connecting the analyzer to a container for the high temperature environment and cooling passage means connected between the tube and the analyzer mounting flange for defining a cooling passage, the filter being disposed in the cooling passage and the cooling passage being sufficiently long to permit cooling of a sample moving into said one open end of the tube before it reaches the filter. Such a sample probe exposes a minimum amount of hardware to the extreme temperature environment with the filter being provided in a cooler part of the system Tubular materials are used which can continuously withstand oxidizing and reducing atmospheres of 1650 C 3000 F . No reliable filter material is known which can withstand such an environment.Therefore, the filtering operation for the analyzer is provided at the end of the tube where the temperatures are reduced to about 315 C 6000F . In this lower temperature region a conventional metal or ceramic fibre filter can be utilized. The temperature is still sufficiently high to be above the dew point of various substarms, such as acids, in the stream to be tested. The inventive combination is unique in that high temperature gases can be sampled and filtered in a very simple manner. No complex or exotic piping arrangements, scrubbers or other systems are required to accomplish the sampling filtering operation. The cooling passage means defines a cooling passage which contains the filter and gases entering the cooling passage from said opposite open end of the heat resistant tube will be at a temperature which is sufficiently high to prevent condensation of liquids from the sample yet sufficiently low to prevent damage to the filter. The sample probe can be simple in design, rugged in construction and economical to manufacture. The invention is diagrammatically illustrated by way of example in the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is a sectional view of a high temperature sample probe according to the invention Figure 2 is a view taken on line 2 2 of Figure 1 Figure 3 is a view similar to Figure 1 of another embodiment of the invention Figure 4 is a side elevational view of a mounting flange for supporting a heat resistant tube of a sample probe according to the invention and Figure 5 is a fragmentary sectional view of another embodiment of the invention showing a connection between a heat resistant tube, a flange and a threaded type nipple. Referring to the drawings and firstly to Figures 1 and 2, a high temperature sample tube generally designated 10 is provided for conducting a sample gas from a high temperature environment, in this case a steel mill soaking pit 12 which is closed by a pit wall 14, to a gas analyzer generally designated 16. The gas analyzer 16 which is known in the art and details of which are not here provided, includes an analyzer block 18 having an inlet port 20 therein. A filter 22 has a first closed end 24 and a second threaded and opened end 26 which is threaded into the port 20. The filter 22 may be a sintered metal filter, a screen filter or a filter made of ceramic fibres. The filter 22 must be capable of withstanding relatively high temperatures, for example up to 31500 6000F , but need not be capable of resisting temperatures as high as 16500C 30000F which exist in the steel mill soaking pit 12. The filter 22 may be rigid or flexible. The analyzer 16 includes a mounting flange 28 having bolts 30 extending therefrom. An offcentre internally threaded opening 32 is provided in the flange 28 for threadably receiving a stainless steel pipe 40.The pipe 40 defines part of a cooling passage which contains the filter 22 and is connected through high temperature ceramic cement 42, to a heat resistant title 44 made, for example of silicon carbide alloy. The tube 44 has an open end 46 which communicates with the pit 12 and conducts a sample gas to a cooling chamber defined by the pipe 40. The analyzer flange 28 is connected eo the wall 14 by a larger diameter pipe 48 which is welded at 50 to the wall 14 and is fixedly connected to a pipe flange 52.The pipe flange 52 is engaged and fixed to the bolts 30 by nuts 54. A high temperature gasket 56 separates the mounting flange 28 from the pipe flange 51 The length of the passage in the pipe 40 as well as the space in the pipe 48 are chosen to be sufficiently long that the temperature of the sample gas entering the inlet end 46 of the tube 44 cools to a temperature which is low enough to avoid destruction of the filter 22 yet still high enough to avoid condensation of liquids, in particular acids in the sample gas, i.e. the sample gas is maintained above the dew point temperature of vapours therein Figure 2 shows the offcentre mounting of tube 44 and pipe 40 in mounting flange The The tube 44 is for example 1070mm 42 inches long and the pipe 48 can for example be a 76mm 3 inch diameter pipe with the mounting flange 52 suitably dimensioned. Figure illustrates another embodiment of the invention. The same numerals are utilized in Figure 3 as in Figures 1 and 2 to represent corresponding parts. In Figure 3, the high temperature resistant tube 44 extends some distance into the pit 12 through the wall 14. The pipe 48 connected to its mounting flange 52 is connected to an intermediate flange 29 by bolt and nut combinations 31. A high temperature gasket 56 separates the flanges 52 and 29. A bracket 27 is bolted to both the intermediate flange 29 and the analyzer mounting flange 28. The filter 22 is threaded into the analyzer inlet port and depends vertically downwardly. This position of the filter reduces fouling of the filter by particles. A stainless steel pipe 60 defines a cooling passage which receives the filter 22. A heater coil 62 is also provided in the passage to maintain the temperature of the sample gases above a condensation temperature, in case the sample gases hecne overly cooled in their joumey from the pit 12 to the analyzer 16 The stainless steel tube 60 is connected by a T connection 64 to a nipple 66. A further stainless steel nipple 68 extends through a coupling 70 and is welded thereto. The coupling 70 is welded to the flange 29. The nipples 66 and 68 are connected by a threaded union 72 so that they may be easily disconnected for access to the tube 44. A gate or ball valve 76 is connected to the T connection 64 by another nipple 78. The gate or ball valve 76 can be opened for access and cleaning of the T connection 64 as well as the tube 44. Particles from the filter 22 may accumulate in this area. The valve 76 can thus be used for a blowback operation or a mechanical cleaning operation. It is noted that a clearance is maintained between the pit wall 14 and the analyzer 16 to prevent overheating of the analyzer. An increased temperature drop is also provided by the added length of the cooling passage which includes the internal passages defined by the nipples 66 and 68 as well as the T connection 64 and the union 72. Figure 4 shows the opening 71 in the intermediate flange 29 which is offset by a distance of about 19mm 3 4 of an inch shown at d from the centre of the flange 29. The flange 29 is provided with suitable openings for the nut and bolt combinations 31. The embodiment of Figure 5 differs from that of Figure 3 only in that the further pipe nipple 68 is replaced by a nipple 80 which is threaded at both ends. The nipple 80 can thus join the union 72 in Figure 3 and also be threaded to the intermediate flange 29. The heat resistant tube 44 is directly connected to the nipple 80 by threading or high temperature ceramic cement. The embodiment of Figure 5 permits the removal and replacement of the tube 44 simply by unthreading the union 72, pivoting theT connection 64 out of the way and unthreading the nipple 80 from the intermediate flange 29. In this way the analyzer may remain mounted while the tube 44 is replaced or cleaned.