# APPARATUS FOR PRODUCING A THREE DIMENSIONAL COPY OF AN OBJECT

## Claims
Vorrichtung zur Herstellung einer dreidimensionalen Kopie eines Objekts 1 von dreidimensionaler Gestalt, umfassend

## Description
This invention relates to an apparatus for producing a three dimensional copy of an object as described in the pre characterizing portion of claim 1. The object may be, for example, a human body. It has been proposed to employ a profile machine tool, cast, invertion mold, etc. in order to producing, from the object having a three dimensional shape, its equivalent three dimensional copy. The above proposals have such a disadvantage that the dimensional limitations to the machine tool, cast, etc. restrict an object to such as capable of being molded in a three dimensional shape, which makes it impossible to copy from an object having a complicated shape and significant uneveness. They also have a disadvantage that if the object is a soft material, the copying thereof requires artistic sense as well as higher skill. The apparatus recited in the pre characterizing portion of claim 1 is disclosed in an article entitled Copying of Object Using Pattern Technique in AUTOMATION TECHNIQUE, February 1981, Vol. 13, No. 2, pages 45 49. Accordingly, a slit optical image projected to an object is picked up by an ITV camera to provide spatial coordinates of the bright lines generated over the object surface, with the possibility of copying the object. This article, however, does not disclose any concrete means for copying the object. A principal object of this invention is to provide an apparatus which can provide an easy measurement method for producing a three dimensional copy and makes it possible to produce, with high accuracy, a three dimensional copy equivalent to or with a certain magnification of an object, regardless of the complexity of the object shape and the hardness thereof. In order to attain the above object, the present invention is implemented as described in the characterizing portion of claim 1. Preferred features of the apparatus according to claim 1 are included in subclaims 2 and 3. The features of the present invention will become more apparent from the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which Hereafter, explanation will be made on an embodiment of this invention with reference to the attached drawings. Figs. 1A and 1B show a part of the arrangement of the embodiment, in which for simplicity of explanation, a model 1 of a simplified human face is employed as an object. Coordinates are set for the model the coordinate axes are used as references for the irradiation positions of light beams and the positions of the image pick up device of an optical image. The coordinates are set with an origin G of a bottom center of the model 1, an X axis extending in the horizontal direction from the origin G in the front view of Fig. 1B, a Y axis extending in the vertical direction from the origin G in the front view of Fig. 1B and a Z axis of a vertical center line of the model 1 in the side view of Fig. 1A. Hereafter, the embodiment of this invention will be explained in more detail. The feature of this embodiment resides in that a slit light irradiation device 90 is provided for irradiating plural slit lights 90a in order to shorten the irradiation time of the object 1. The slit light irradiating device 90 is constituted by plural light sources, e.g., 10 laser light generators and an optical system, e.g., cylindrical lens or concave mirror, and irradiates to the model 1 plural e.g. 10 slit lights 90a₁ 90a₁₀ each with a thickness of Δh e.g. 0.5 mm and a spreading angle of ϑ. The slit lights 90a₁ 90a₁₀ each takes as a center line a perpendicular line drawn from the center of the corresponding light source to the vertical center line Z axis of the model 1, and are arranged so that they are irradiated in parallel to each other and at equal intervals, e.g., 30 mm. An ITV camera 3 as a two dimensional image pick up device is arranged at a fixed distance from the slit light irradiation device 90, and so that the optical axis of the camera is directed to the model 1 and forms a predetermined angle with the slit lights 90a₁ 90a₁₀ For example, an angle of β is formed with the slit light 90a₅ . Further, it is assumed that the effective view angle of the ITV camera 3 is α, the point where the perpendicular line drawn from the principal point of the lens of the camera to the Z axis intersects the Z axis is G, the segment perpendicularly intersecting the X axis and the Z axis is a Y axis, and the point G is the origin of each co ordinate axis. The slit light irradiation device 90 and the ITV camera 3 are fixedly mounted on a rack 4 which is slidably guided on a guide post the rack 4 is attached on a ball nut 6 screwed with a ball screw shaft 5. A step motor not shown connected with the ball screw shaft 5 stepwise drives the ball nut 6 up and down by the thickness Δh of the slit light. Thus, slit light is stepwise irradiated to the model. In order to irradiate the entire periphery of the model 1 with the slit light 90a and pick up the resultant optical image, plural slit light irradiation devices 90 and ITV cameras 3 associated therewith may be arranged so as to surround the model 1. When, in this case, the distance from each ITV camera to the Z axis as the center line of the model 1 is equally set, and its optical magnification is also equally set, the operation for forming the NC data on the basis of the measurement result can be simplified since the optical images corresponding to the slit lights picked up by the associated ITV cameras 3 can be directly compared. However, this is not an indispensable requisite. For example, with only the shape of a certain section of the object being previously and actually measured, by comparing the thus obtained data with the data produced from the picking up of the above section by the respective ITV cameras 3, it is also possible to calibrate the measurement data of each camera. Fig. 2 shows the optical image of the slit lights 90a irradiated to the model 1 which is picked up by the ITV camera 3. When, with the ITV camera 3 arranged so that the direction of its scanning lines is parallel to the plane formed by the X axis and Z axis, i.e., X Z plane, the optical images corresponding to the slit lights 90a irradiated to the model 1 are picked up by the ITV camera 3, 10 arch slit images are provided as shown in Fig. 2 The point P i included in the slit image in Fig. 2 is an image of the point Pi in Figs. 1A and 1B, and corresponds to any one point of the slit light irradiated to the surface of the model 1. The co ordinates In order to acquire an optical section from the image picked up by the ITV camera 3 as shown in Fig. 2, there will be explained means for the co ordinates of the point Pi relative to the X axis, Y axis and Z axis. As shown in Fig. 2, one image plane of the ITV camera 3 is formed by scanning the image signal from ITV camera 3 on The pick up of the optical image of the model 1 by the ITV camera 3 provides an output signal as shown in Fig. 3. The output signal is outputted in such a way that, as shown in Fig. 3. first, an image plane starting signal V Fig. 4 shows a block diagram of a control circuit for acquiring the co ordinates xi, yi, zi of the light spot Pi of Fig. 2, relative to the X axis, Y axis and Z axis, using the ITV camera 3. In Fig. 4, 3 is the ITV camera, and 109 is a synchronization separating circuit in which the image signal S corresponding to the optical image of the model 1 which is obtained by the irradiation of the slit light 90a and picked up by the ITV camera and is inputted together with the horizontal synchronizing signal H 101 designates a counter having a count input terminal IN coupled with the horizontal synchronizing signal H 102 designates an oscillation circuit which continuously outputs a pulse each time interval ta m resulting from the division of the time required to scan one scanning line into The image signal of the ITV camera 3, which has been separated from the vertical synchronizing signal V Further, as the case may be, plural ΔYi s and ΔZi s are provided for one scanning line all of these ΔYi ΔYip and ΔZi ΔZip are stored in the memory circuits 106, 107. There may be the light spots of the plural slit optical images on one scanning line. Therefore, the identification of ΔYi s and ΔZi s is made in synchronism with the lighting commands of the slit lights 90a₁ 90a₁₀, which are sequentially applied to the slit light irradiation device 90 from a microcomputer 110. The acquisition of ΔYi and ΔZi allows the X and Y co ordinates Xi, Yi of the point Pi of the model 1 to be acquired in the following manner, referring to Fig. 22A. The point Pi as shown in Figs. 1A and 1B is an intersection of a segment where where where The operations of equations 2 , 3 , 4 are carried out by the microcomputer 110 and the result thereof is stored in a memory 111. After all of the X and Y co ordinates Xi, Yi relative to one image plane of the ITV camera 3 have been calculated and the result thereof has been stored, the rack 4 as shown in Fig. 1A is driven by the step motor not shown by a thickness Δh of the slit light in order to perform the same processing as mentioned above. The rack 4 is moved by the interval Δh of the adjoining slit lights. The above explanation has been made for one measurement device including the ITV camera. When the three dimensional measurement of the entire periphery of the model 1 is intended, a plurality of the ITV cameras 3 are arranged at an even distance from the Z axis of the model 1 together with measurement processing parts associated therewith to acquire the corresponding ΔYi s and ΔZi s. The data of ΔYi s and ΔZi s relative to each camera are inputted into the microcomputer 110 to calculate the corresponding co ordinates Xi, Yi , and the result of the calculation is stored in the memory 111. Thus, the three dimensional measurement of the entire periphery of the model 1 is performed. Then, the plurality of ITV cameras provide plural image planes, which give rise to some overlapping between the image planes adjacent to each other. However, this overlapping can be obviated by previously setting the range of image pick up of each ITV camera. For example, where Next, explanation will be made on the manner of producing or copying the three dimensional shape of the model 1 on the basis of the thus obtained optical spots Xi, Yi thereof. It is now assumed that the scanning lines of the plurality of ITV cameras 3₁ 3 The stacking of the thus formed templates is done in the measurement order, e.g. a fixing using adhesive allows the model to be easily copied. In accordance with this embodiment, a high speed operation processing can be realized since a plurality of slit lights are arranged so as to be irradiated to the Z axis of the model so that the slit light sources are shifted by a short distance and the irradiation time of the slit light is reduced. Moreover, the scanning lines of the ITV cameras are arranged in a vertical direction so that twice or more resolution in the vertical direction can be provided as compared with that in the horizontal direction, thereby improving the measurement accuracy for the model extending in the vertical direction such as a person figure. Incidentally, although in this embodiment, in order to simplify the operation processing, all of the ITV cameras are shifted to be situated at the same level with respect to the Z axis, this is not an indispensable requisite. For example, by applying the measurement result of the height of each ITV camera through an encoder, for example, to a microcomputer, the data Xi, Yi provided by each ITV camera are matched to the same height. Enlarging or reducing the thickness of the sheet to be cut by the NC cutting machine to NΔh or Δh N by multiplying the data Xi, Yi N times or 1 N times permits the shape of the model to be enlarged or reduced in any size.