# LINE VOLTAGE MONITOR SYSTEM

## Abstract
A separate Detector Module and Printer Module are provided. The Printer Module is incorporated in an attache case and has space so that the Detector Module may be carried in the case. A power connection is provided in the case for the Detector Module and a communications connec tion to the Printer is also provided. The power connection to the Detector is via a separate power cord distinct from the power cord to the Printer. Thus the Detector may be monitoring one power line while the Printer is plugged in to another. The plugs on the ends of the power cords to the Printer and to the Detector have both male and female connectors piggy back so that they may be plugged in to the same power line outlet or the Detector may he plugged in to a power line outlet or the Detector may be plugged in to a power line outlet and the machine to which the power is monitored may be plugged in piggy back with the detector. The Detector Module derives a synchronization signal from the half wave crossovers of the AC power line. A half wave peak detector detects the peak voltage of each half wave. An impulse detector detects the voltage of any impulses occurring during a half wave. A common mode detector detects the peak value of each half wave across the common mode terminals. A microcomputer is provided together with a clock calendar for recording threshold values and for each half cycle if a SAG or SURGE is detected the time that the SAG or SURGE was initiated the voltage of the half cycle of greatest SAG or SURGE during the event and the number of cycles is recorded. For LO and HI AVERAGE an average register stores the average of the peak values for each of the last thirty two half cycles and that average is compared with the threshold to determine if an event has occurred. If an event has occurred, the duration and the lowest average occurring during the event is stored. The time an impulse occurs is recorded to the nearest second along with the voltage of the peak impulse during the half cycle of the event is stored. For COMMON mode the value of the worst half cycle occurring during any event is recorded along with the number of cycles during which the COMMON mode occurs. BLACKOUT time OFF and time ON are recorded. Except for BLACKOUT, the worst ten of each of the above events are stored and the last ten events that occurred are stored. For BLACKOUT the last five OFF and five ON events are stored. For each of the above the number of events that have occurred is stored. Other novel features include memory check after battery backup the method of setting thresholds, monitor ID and the clock calender without the use of a full numeric keyboard or an ON LINE display an event defeat switch on the Detector a clear event light switch on the Detector two battery off switches on the Detector to prevent accidental loss of memory novel IMPULSE and COMMON mode detectors.