# DERIVATIVES OF ALKYL SUBSTITUTED 4 HYDROXY METHYL PIPERIDINE AND USE THEREOF AS STABILIZERS

## Claims
Derivate von alkylsubstituiertem 4 Hydroxymethylpiperidin der allgemeinen Formel

## Description
As it is known, heat, oxygen and light, especially the actinic radiation in the short wavelength ultraviolet range, have an adverse effect on the appearance and the properties of organic polymers. For example, polyesters, which are usually colorless, turn yellow when exposed to sunlight. Analogously, the oxidation rate of polyolefins when exposed to air is strongly increased in the presence of ultraviolet light. Polystyrene gets yellow and brittle, with corresponding loss of its desirable properties, when exposed to actinic light, etc. The same degradation and alteration effects of the mechanical properties occur when the polymeric materials are subjected to heat treatments, for example during their transformation into formed articles, such as films, fibers and the like. In order to stabilize the polymeric materials and to maintain the properties thereof unchanged, it is usual practice to add thereto one or more stabilizers, the function of which is just that of counteracting the susceptibility of such materials to oxidative and thermal degradation. A particular type of stabilizers which has been employed very successfully is represented by the sterically hindered amines HALS and in particular the derivatives of alkylsubstituted piperidine. The hindered amines based on alkyl substituted piperidine, although being excellent stabilizers for polymeric substances in general, do not afford satisfactory results with all polymeric substances and in all technological uses. In fact, the known stabilizers show the drawback of not possessing all those parameters and technical characteristics necessary for all technological applications, such as low volatility, resistance to migration, thermal stability, insolubility in water, etc. US A 3937711, among many others, mentions 2,2,6,6 tetraalkyl 4 hydroxyethyl piperidine derivatives as possible stabilizers for polymers. It is an object of the present invention to improve the properties of the known alkyl substituted piperidine stabilizers. It has now been found that this and still further objects are achieved by derivatives of alkyl substituted 4 hydroxy methyl piperidine having general formula wherein in which R₆, R₇, R₈ and R₉, the same or different, represent a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group containing 1 to 6 carbon atoms and R₅ has the meaning defined below in which Z and Z¹, the same or different, represent hydrogen, NR₁₄R₁₅, O R₁₆ or S R₁₇ in which R₁₄, R₁₅, R₁₆ and R₁₇ may be hydrogen, an alkyl radical containing 1 to 18 carbon atoms or an alkyl substituted piperidyl group of formula or R₁₄ and R₁₅ together with the N atom form a ring which may optionally contain other heteroatoms According to the present invention it has also been found that the derivatives of alkyl substituted 4 hydroxymethyl piperidine having general formula I , either alone or in admixture with other known stabilizers, can effectively stabilize a wide range of polymers against photo and thermal degradation and, furthermore, are highly compatible with the polymers, in particular with polyolefins. When R₁, R₂, R₃ or R₄ in the above formula I represent alkyl groups, said alkyl groups preferably contain from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, such as, e.g., methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl or isobutyl, the methyl group being particularly preferred. R₁ and R₂ and or R₃ and R₄, along with the carbon atom to which they are bound, may also represent a cycloalkyl group containing from 5 to 7 carbon atoms, such as, e.g., cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl, etc., or an alkyl substituted piperidyl group, such as for example When R₅ is an alkyl group, it may contain from 1 to 8 carbon atoms. In practice, it is preferable that the alkyl group contains from 1 to 4 carbon atoms and among these, the methyl group is particularly preferred. When R₅ is an alkenyl group, it may contain from 3 to 6 carbon atoms, such as e.g., the allyl group, the, 2 butenyl group or the 2 hexenyl group alkenyl groups containing 3 or 4 carbon atoms are preferred and the allyl group is particularly preferred. When R₅ is an alkoxyalkyl group, it may be an alkoxyalkyl group containing 1 to 3 carbon atoms in the alkyl chain and from 1 to 18 carbon atoms in the alkoxy radical. Examples of alkoxyalkyl groups are methoxymethyl, ethoxymethyl, 2 butoxyethyl, 3 butoxypropyl, 2 octoxyethyl and 2 octadecyloxyethyl. Among the alkoxyalkyl groups those containing a total of 2 to 6 carbon atoms are preferred. When R₅ is an aralkyl group, it preferably contains 7 or 8 carbon atoms and may be unsubstituted or contain up to 3 substituents in the aryl radical. Chlorine atoms, alkyl groups with 1 to 4 carbon atoms, alkoxy groups with 1 to 8 carbon atoms or hydroxy groups may be used as substituents. Typical examples of aralkyl groups are benzyl, p chlorobenzyl, o chlorobenzyl, m chlorobenzyl, o methylbenzyl, m methylbenzyl, p methylbenzyl, p isopropylbenzyl, p tert butylbenzyl, p methoxybenzyl, p butoxybenzyl, p octoxybenzyl, 4 hydroxy 3,5 ditert butylbenzyl, etc.. When R₅ is a group of formula CH₂ COOR₁₀, R₁₀ may represent When R₅ represents the group R₁₁ represents a hydrogen atom, a methyl group or a phenyl group and R₁₂ represents a hydrogen atom, an acyl group, for example an aliphatic, araliphatic, aromatic or alicyclic group, an alkyl substituted piperidyl group optionally also having a hydroxy group on the ring such as or a triazine group, such as or When R₁₂ is an acyl group, it preferably has the formula COR₁₈ in which R₁₈ is an alkyl group with 1 to 18 carbon atoms an alkenyl group with 2 to 4 carbon atoms a phenyl group, optionally substituted with up to 3 substituents, equal or different from each other and selected from chlorine, alkyl with 1 to 4 carbon atoms, alkoxy with 1 to 8 carbon atoms and hydroxy an aralkyl group with 7 or 8 carbon atoms, the aryl radical of which may optionally be substituted with up to 3 substituents, the same or different from one another and selected from chlorine, alkyl with 1 to 4 carbon atoms, alkoxy with 1 to 6 carbon atoms and hydroxy a styryl group, or a cyclohexyl group. Examples of radicals R₁₈ are methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl, heptyl, 1 ethyl pentyl, nonyl, undecyl, heptadecyl, vinyl, 1 propenyl, 2 methy 1 propenyl, 1 butenyl, phenyl, o chlorophenyl, m chlorophenyl, 2,4 di chlorophenyl, o methylphenyl, p methylphenyl, m methylphenyl, p isopropylphenyl, p tert butylphenyl, p methoxyphenyl, p ethoxyphenyl, p butoxyphenyl, 3,4,5 trimethoxyphenyl, o hydroxyphenyl, 4 hydroxy 3,5 di tert butylphenyl, benzyl, p methylbenzyl and 4 hydroxy 3,5 di tert butylphenyl. Particularly preferred are the groups of formula CH₂ CH₂ O R₁₂, in which R₁₂ has one of the meanings given above. When R₅ is an aliphatic acyl group, it preferably contains up to 4 carbon atoms and is a saturated or unsaturated acyl group, such as, e.g., formyl, acetyl, acrylyl or crotonyl. When R₅ is a group of formula COOR₁₃, R₁₃ is an alkyl group, preferably with 1 to 8 carbon atoms, such as methyl, ethyl, isobutyl, heptyl a benzyl group or a phenyl group. In general Y may represent a hydrocarbon residue which may be non substituted or substituted, a residue derived from an organic or inorganic acid, a heterocyclic group and a group comprising a phosphorus, boron or silicon atom. The following groups are preferred a group of formula in which R₂₁ is hydrogen an alkyl group containing 1 to 4 carbon atoms an aralkyl group preferably containing 7 or 8 carbon atoms or a phenyl group and R₂₂ is an alkyl group containing from 1 to 18 carbon atoms, an aryl group preferably containing 6 to 10 carbon atoms, optionally substituted by one or more chlorine atoms and or alkyl groups with from 1 to 4 carbon atoms such as,for example,phenyl, o chlorophenyl, p chlorophenyl, o , m and p toluyl, alpha naphthyl or beta naphthyl an aralkyl group containing 7 or 8 carbon atoms, or a cyclohexyl group alternatively, R₂₁ and R₂₂, together in which R₂₃ is a hydrogen atom, a C₁ ₆ alkyl group particularly methyl or a phenyl group and R₂₄ is an alkyl group containing preferably from 1 to 8 carbon atoms. in which R₂₆ represents a hydrogen atom, an alkyl group with preferably from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, a phenyl or benzyl group, optionally substituted such as 4 hydroxy 3,5 di tert butylbenzyl a group of formula in which R₂₁ has the same meaning as above and R₂₇ represents an alkylene group preferably containing from 2 to 10 carbon atoms an optionally substituted arylene group having preferably from 6 to 10 carbon atoms such as o phenylene, m phenylene, p phenylene, 2,4 toluidene, 1,5 naphthylene, etc. , a xylylene group, a cyclohexylene group such as 1,4 cyclohexylene , in which R₂₈ may be an oxygen atom of an alkylene group containing from 1 to 4 carbon atoms such as methylene di 4,1 cyclohexene , such as,for example,1,3 cyclohexylene dimethylene, etc. among the groups comprised by this formula, those of formula CO NH R₂₇ NH CO in which R₂₇ is as defined hereinbefore are particularly preferred or Derivatives of alkyl substituted 4 hydroxy piperidine which are particularly preferred are those of general formula in which R₅ is a hydrogen atom, a methyl group, a benzyl group, a 2,3 epoxypropyl group or a group of formula CH₂ CH₂ O R₁₂ in which R₁₂ is hydrogen or an alkyl group with from 2 to 18 carbon atoms or a benzoyl group n 1, 2 or 3 and Particularly preferred compounds are those in which n 1 and Y represents a group of formula CO R₁₉ or n 2 and Y represents a group of formula CO R₂₅ CO , R₁₉ and R₂₅ having the meanings defined hereinbefore. A non limitative list of derivatives of alkyl substituted 4 hydroxy methyl piperidines is given hereinbelow, and the numbers of the corresponding products will be used to identify them also in the examples. The compound prepared in Example 1 below is described in Khim.Get.Soed. 1976 No. 7, pages 927 34 E.I. Levkoeva, L.N. Iachontov , but it is not stated therein that said compound might be useful as stabilizer for polymers. The derivatives of 4 hydroxy methyl piperidine I are preparable according to conventional methods by means of the processes indicated hereinbelow. The compounds of formula I where Y is hydrogen, not compounds according to the invention but useful starting materials are preparable by reduction of a compound of formula III where R₁, R₂, R₃, R₄ and R₅ are defined as hereinbefore, by means of a reducing agent such as lithium or aluminum hydride with hydrogen and a catalyst such as the nickel Raney. The compounds of formula I , wherein Y is an acyl group, a diacyl group, a carbonyl group, a group obtained by removing one or two hydroxy groups from a phosphorus containing acid or a group of formula wherein R₁, R₂, R₃, R₄ and R₅ are defined as hereinbefore with a reactive derivative of the acid corresponding to group Y, for example with a halide or a lower alcohol ester. The compounds of formula I in which Y represents an alkyl, alkenyl, aralkyl group, a cyclohexyl group, an alkylene group, an alkenyl group or a xylylene group are preparable by reacting a compound of formula IV , as already defined, with a halide of group Y. The compounds of formula I wherein Y represents one of the groups CONHR₂₂ or CONHR₂₇NH CO can be prepared by reacting a compound of formula IV , as already defined, with an isocyanate of formula R₂₂NCO or OCN R₂₇ NCO. The compounds of formula I , wherein Y represents one of the groups The compounds of formula I in which Y represents the group CO R₂₀ COOH are preparable by reacting the compound of formula IV , as already defined, with an anhydride of formula The esters and the salts of this group can be easily prepared according to conventional methods. The compounds of formula I wherein Y represents a group The compounds of formula I where Y represents a group of formula are preparable by reacting a compound of formula IV , as already defined, with a compound of formula When R₅ is a group other than hydrogen, it can be introduced into the compound prior to or after the introduction of Y, by treating a compound of formula I, II, III or IV, where R₅ is the hydrogen atom, according to one of the following methods. The compounds of formula I, II, III or IV, in which R₅ represents an alkyl group, an alkenyl group, an alkoxyalkyl group, an aralkyl group, a 2,3 epoxypropyl group, the group CH₂ COO R₁₀, the group The compounds of formula I, II, III or IV, in which R₅ represents the group The compounds of formula I, II, III or IV, in which R₅ represents a methyl group, are preparable according to the Leuckart Wallach reaction, i.e., by reacting the corresponding compound in which R₅ represents hydrogen with formic acid and formaldehyde. The compounds of formula I, II, III or IV in which R₅ represents a formyl group can be prepared by reacting a corresponding compound in which R₅ is hydrogen, with ethyl orthoformate, in the presence of an acidic catalyst. The compounds of formula III, which represent the starting substances for preparing the derivatives of 4 hydroxymethyl piperidine having general formula I , utilized in the polymeric compositions according to the present invention, can be prepared according to the teachings of US A 4,400,513. The derivatives of 4 hydroxy methyl piperidine having general formula I are useful to stabilize polymers, in particular synthetic polymers, against photo and thermal degradation. Examples of polymers which can be stabilized according to the present invention are The proportion of 4 hydroxy methyl piperidine of formula I necessary to effectively stabilize the polymers depends on various factors, such as the type and properties of the polymer, the use for which it is intended, the simultaneous presence of other stabilizers. Generally, suitable amounts range from 0.01 to 5 by weight of stabilizer, based on the polymer. In particular, the preferred amount ranges from 0.02 to 1 for the polymers of olefins, dienes and styrene, from 0.02 to 0.5 for the polymers of vinyl and vinylidene halides, from 0.02 to 2 for polyurethanes and polyamides. Optionally, two or more stabilizers having general formula I can be utilized. The derivatives of 4 hydroxymethyl piperidine of formula I utilized as stabilizers in the polymeric compositions according to this invention can be easily incorporated into the polymers to be stabilized, according to conventional operating methods, e.g., the stabilizers can be mixed with the polymer in the form of a dry powder, or a stabilizer solution or suspension or emulsion can be admixed with a polymer solution or suspension or emulsion. The derivatives of the alkyl substituted 4 hydroxymethyl piperidine of formula I can be employed either alone or in admixture with other known additives such as antioxidants, UV ray absorbers, pigments, fillers, basic nitrogen containing polycondensates, stabilizers and the like. Examples of such additives are oxybenzotriazoles, oxobenzophenones, Ni stabilizers, metal soaps, phenolic antioxidants, phosphites, phosphinites, thioesters, hydroquinone derivatives, triazinic compounds, acylamino phenols, benzyl phosphates, sterically hindered phenols, such as 4,4 bis butylidene bis 2 6 di tert butyl phenol triazino phenol compounds, etc. Such additives can be utilized along with the compounds having formula I , according to the present invention, in a weight ratio ranging from 0.5 1 to 3 1. For a better understanding of the present invention and as aid for practicing the same, a few illustrative preferred examples are given in the following. In the examples, all parts refer to the weight, unless otherwise specified. 134.4 g of 2,2,6,6 tetramethyl piperidyl 4 spirooxirane 0.8 moles in 500 ml of ethanol and 15 g of Ni Raney were placed in a steel autoclave equipped with a magnetic stirrer. Hydrogen was introduced up to a pressure of 5 MPa 50 atm and the temperature was brought to 120 C. The reaction mixture was maintained at the indicated temperature for 6 hours, then it was cooled down, the catalyst was filtered off, the solvent was evaporated and the residue was placed in an oven under vacuum at 100 C 0.13 kPa 1 mm Hg of residual pressure. There were obtained 125 g of product having a melting point of 172 174 C and a gas chromatographic purity on a Supelco The desired product was characterized by N.M.R. and I.R. analyses. Into a flask there were introduced 20.5 g of 2,2,6,6 tetramethyl 4 hydroxymethyl piperidine of Example 1 0.12 moles , 10.45 of methyl adipate 0.06 moles and 0.5 g of LiOH in 100 ml of xylene. The temperature inside the flask was brought to 140 C and at the top of a rectification column the methyl alcohol resulting from the reaction distilled. Once the theoretical amount of alcohol had been distilled, the whole mixture was brought to dryness by distilling xylene under vacuum. CH₂Cl₂ and water were added to the residue and the resulting organic layer was separated from the aqueous layer. The dried organic layer was evaporated from the solvent and the residue was diluted again with hot acetone. There were obtained 25 g of title product having a M.P. of 97 98 C, which product was identified by means of N.M.R. and I.R. By operating under the same conditions as described in Example 2, the following products were prepared 9.8 g of 1 2 hydroxyethyl 2,2,6,6 tetramethyl 4 hydroxymethyl piperidine 0.045 mole were added to 28.7 g of methyl stearate 0.09 mole in the presence of 0.5 g of LiOH. The mixture was heated to 140 C in a nitrogen atmosphere and was maintained under stirring until the formation of the resulting methyl alcohol was complete. The reaction mass was diluted again with CH₂Cl₂ and washed with H₂O. After removal of solvent from the organic layer, the residue was crystallized from acetone. 29 g of product having a melting point of 50 52 C were obtained. The product was identified by its I.R. and N.M.R. spectra. By operating according to Example 13, 1 2 palmitoxyethyl 2,2,6,6 tetramethyl piperidine palmitate compound No. 45 was prepared. The product was liquid. 62 g of 1,2,2,6,6 pentamethyl 4 hydroxymethyl piperidine 0.335 mole and 33.5 g of succinic anhydride 0.335 mole were dissolved in 300 ml of benzene and the solution was brought to the reflux temperature of the solvent. After half an hour, the reaction mixture was cooled down and the precipitate was filtered, yielding 85 g of title compound having a M.P. of 186 189 C. By operating according to the procedure of Example 15, there were prepared 14.27 g of compound No. 90 of Example 15 0.05 mole were dissolved in 50 ml of methanol. To the resulting solution there were added 2.8 g of KOH 0.05 mole and, dropwise within half an hour, 5.94 g of NiCl₂.6H₂O, dissolved in 20 ml of methanol. After completion of the addition the temperature was raised to solvent reflux for 2 hours. The mixture was then cooled down and the KCl which had formed was filtered. The solvent was evaporated and the residue was diluted with benzene. The insoluble portion was filtered and the solution was evaporated to dryness. The residual green solid product had a M.P. of 149 154 C and, subjected to elemental analysis, revealed a Ni content of 9.4 theoretical value 9.36 for the desired product . By operating under the same conditions as in Example 18, nickel di 3,4,5,6 tetrahydrophthalate of mono 1,2,2,6,6 pentamethyl 4 methyl piperidine compound No. 93 was prepared, which was a green solid having a M.P. of 154 157 C. Into a flask there were introduced 19.8 g 0.107 mole of 1,2,2,6,6 pentamethyl piperidyl 4 spiro oxirane in 100 ml of ethyl acetate, and to the solution there were added under stirring 9 g 0.0535 mole of hexamethylene diisocyanate dissolved in 50 ml of ethyl acetate. Stirring was continued for 4 hours while raising the temperature up to solvent reflux. The solvent was evaporated under vacuum and the residue was diluted with acetonitrile. Thus the solid title compound having a melting point of 48 to 50 C was obtained. Preparation of compound No. 117 . 23 g of 1,2,2,6,6 pentamethyl piperidyl 4 spiro oxirane 0.126 mole were reacted with 12.9 g of 1 2 hydroxyethyl 2,2,6,6 tetramethyl 4 hydroxymethyl piperidine 0.06 mole at 140 C for 3 hours in the presence of 0.5 g of KOH. The reaction mass was then diluted with CH₂Cl₂ and washed with water. From the dried organic layer the solvent was evaporated and the residue was diluted with acetone. There were obtained 30 g of title product having a M.P. of 124 126 C. By operating as in Example 21, 2,2,6,6 tetramethyl 4 hydroxy 4 piperidinemethoxy 2,2,6,6 tetramethyl 4 methyl piperidine of formula was prepared compound No. 69 . White solid having a melting point of 65 67 C. 34.2 g 0.2 mole of the compound of Example 1 were dissolved in 200 ml of xylene. Under stirring, 4.6 g of sodium metal 0.2 g.a. were gradually added to the solution. Successively, there were dropwise added to the solution 33.8 g of di iodohexane 0.1 mole . The mixture was heated to solvent reflux which was maintained for 8 hours. Water was added and from the organic layer, after separation and drying, the solvent was evaporated. The residue was crystallized from acetone. 32 g of the title compound, a solid product having a melting point of 69 70 C, were obtained. By operating under the conditions described in Example 23, 1,4 bis 2,2,6,6 tetramethyl 4 piperidine methoxy butane compound No. 111 was prepared. The product obtained was solid and had a M.P. of 68 69 C. 18.52 g of the compound of Example 1 0.1083 mole were dissolved in 150 ml of xylene. To the resulting solution there were gradually added, under stirring, 2.55 g of sodium metal 0.11 g.a. and, successively, 13.25 g of 3,9 di chloro 2,4,8,10 tetraoxa 3,9 diphospha spiro 5,5 undecane 0.05 mole . The mixture was heated to solvent reflux for 8 hours. Thereafter water was added and the organic layer was separated and dried and the solvent was evaporated. The residue was diluted with hexane and was crystallized. 20 g of title compound having a melting point of 99 101 C were obtained. To 300 g of non stabilized polypropylene having an instrinsic viscosity, measured at 130 C in tetralin, of 162 ml g, a residue of 96.5 after extraction with heptane and an ash content of 80 ppm, there were added 200 ml of chloroform containing, dissolved therein, one of the compounds reported in the table below. The amount of added compound was 0.5 by weight, based on polypropylene. The mixture was stirred for about 6 hours at room temperature in a rotary evaporator, then it was dried at 50 C 1.3 Pa 0.01 mm Hg for 1 hour. The resulting stabilized powder was extruded in a Brabender extruder at 220 C and granulated. The granules were transformed to films having a uniform thickness of 50 60 µm. On the films thus obtained there was determined the photo oxidative stability, defined as the time required to obtain rupture of the film, by one bending by 180 , after exposure to Zenotest 1200 under the following conditions The obtained results were