# BATTERY FEED CIRCUIT FOR SUBSCRIBER LINE

## Claims
Speiseschaltkreis für eine Teilnehmerleitung, welche betreibbar ist, konstante Ströme in ein Paar einer ersten Teilnehmerleitung A und einer zweiten Teilnehmerleitung B über einen ersten Speiseschaltkreisteil B

## Description
The present invention relates to a battery feed circuit, more particularly, to a battery feed circuit for use as a constant current battery feed circuit for subscriber lines in a switching system. As well known, battery feed circuits play an important role in feeding a constant DC current, via subscriber lines, to telephone sets, data terminals, and other subscriber units. Battery feed circuits are thus some of the most important parts in a switching system. Recently, the need has been growing for switching network featuring increased quality of transmission signals, decreased power consumption, reduced systems costs, and so on. The need is being met by improvements in hardware, including battery feed circuits. There are several types of battery feed circuits, e.g. a constant resistor type and a constant current type. Constant resistor types are not very practical from the viewpoint of power consumption. Constant current types feature lower power consumption, but suffer from the problem of instability and undesired clipping of transmission signals due to common mode noise induced along the subscriber lines. Constant current type circuits can have an additional drawback of amplifier saturation which also results in the signal voltage being clipped WO A1 84 01250 shows a battery feed circuit intended to prevent the amplifers from becoming saturated when out of phase signals are transmitted. An object of the present invention is to provide an improved battery feed circuit installed in a line circuit for a subscriber line in a switching system, which will work to feed DC current as usual and further suppress noise in the transmission signals. According to the invention, there is provided a battery feed circuit for a subscriber line operative to feed constant currents to a pair of a first subscriber line A and a second subscriber line B via a first feed circuit part B The above object and features of the present invention will be more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments with reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein Before describing the embodiments of the present invention, the prior art and problems therein will be described with reference to the related figures. Figure 1 is a general circuit diagram of an example of a conventional subscriber line in, for example, a digital switching system. In Fig. 1, reference characters BF represents a battery feed circuit to which the present invention specifically refers, O a high voltage protector in the drawings, a primary protector O I and a secondary protector O II are illustrated used for protecting the line circuit LC from a high voltage surge such as lightning, and RG a ringing circuit operative to send ringing signals given from a continuous ringer CR to a subscriber unit U in the drawing, U is a telephone set connected, via subscriber lines A and B, with the circuit LC. The transmission signal to and from the subscriber unit U is transferred by way of a hybrid transformer H for performing conversion between a two wire line provided with a DC cut capacitor C and a four wire line provided with a balancing network BN. The hybrid transformer H is connected, via a codec coder decoder CD comprised of both an analog digital A D converter and a digital analog D A converter, to a digital switching network NW. The codec CD works to effect conversions between a usual voice signal and pulse code modulation PCM signal. The continuous ringer CR cooperates with a scanner SCN. The scanner SCN is also connected with a supervisory circuit S. Reference character T denotes a test circuit connected with test configuration lines TST. As seen from Fig. 1, the battery feed circuit BF is connected with the subscriber lines A and B and supplies DC current thereto during an off hook state. During this state, the battery feed circuit BF provides a high impedance so as to prevent attenuation of the AC transmission signals, e.g., voice signals. Figure 2 a is a circuit diagram of a conventional constant resistor type feed circuit, and Fig. 2 b is a graph depicting DC voltage current characteristics of the subscriber line A and B. In Fig. 2 a the subscriber line A and a power source of V According to the constant resistor type battery feed circuit shown in Fig. 2 a , a DC current of 100 mA or more is necessarily given to the subscriber lines A and B, especially when the lines are short in length. Therefore, a battery feed circuit of such type is not economical due to large size coils. Also, there is a problem of heat generated by the large power. Figure 3 a is a circuit diagram of a conventional constant current type battery feed circuit, and Fig. 3 b is a graph depicting DC voltage current characteristics of the subscriber lines A and B. The constant current type battery feed circuit having the parts B According to the constant current type battery feed circuit shown in Fig. 3 a , since the related battery feed circuit has a high impedance, voice signals are attenuated slightly thereby. Further, a constant DC current can always be ensured regardless of the length of the subscriber liner A and B. Therefore, the intended low power consumption can be attained. However, as previously mentioned, undesired clipping of the transmission signals takes place. This will be explained with reference primarily to the voltage current characteristics shown in Fig. 3 b . As understood from Fig. 3 b , during the off hook state of the related subscriber unit telephone , the intermediate voltage between the subscriber lines A and B cannot always be set at V In the above case, even if two constant current sources have exactly the same voltage current characteristics, undesired clipping is very liable to take place due to external noise on the lines A and B, in the form of common mode noise. This is because, when such common mode noise is given to the lines A and B, the constant currents I Figure 4 is more detailed circuit diagram of the battery feed circuit shown in Fig. 3 a . In Fig. 4, reference characters A₀ and A₁ denote operational amplifers hereinafter abbreviated as OP AMP and T Assuming here that the current amplification factor h Further, when common mode noise is given to the subscriber lines A and B, common mode noise voltages appear on these lines A and B. The voltage amplitudes are proportional to the impedances of the feed circuit parts B In view of the above mentioned problems, the present invention proposes a battery feed circuit which features, first, low power consumption with normal constant current characteristics, second, superior noise suppression against common mode noise and or power source noise, and, third, prevention of undesired clipping in the transmission signals through the subscriber lines A and B. Figure 5 is a circuit diagram of a battery feed circuit for a subscriber line according to a first embodiment of the present invention. The differences here relative to the prior art construction shown in Fig. 4 are as follows. First, an intermediate voltage output circut IV is newly employed. Second, a first reference voltage output circuit RV₀ and a second reference voltage output circuit RV₁ are newly employed, the related resistors R The intermediate voltage output circuit IV operates to produce an intermediate voltage between the first and second subscriber lines A and B. The output circuit IV is comprised of resistors R The amplifier A₂ is constructed as a voltage follower of gain 1 and is operative to feed the intermediate voltage at the point M₁ back to the intermediate point M₂. In this case, usual transmission signals do not appear at the point M₁ since they form so called differential mode signals between the lines A and B. Only the common mode transmission signals appear at the point M₁. The common mode signals at the output of the amplifier A₂ are applied to each non inverting input terminal of the OP AMP s A₀ and A₁. Due to the inherent functions of the OP AMP s A₀ and A₁, the common mode signals appear at each inverting input terminal of the OP AMP s A₀ and A₁. The common mode signals are then inverted by the transistors T and respectively. Due to the reduction of the impedances, the common mode noise is cancelled by the feed circuit parts B Further, deviation of the intermediate voltage between the lines A and B due to an imbalance between the feed circuit parts B The first embodiment can be further improved. As seen from Fig. 5, the constant current concerned is determined merely by dividing the voltage between the ground GD level and the power source level V Consequently, the subscriber lines A and B are supplied with noise signals different from each other, which results in differential noise in the subscriber unit U. Figure 6 is a circuit diagram of a battery feed circuit for a subscriber line according to a second embodiment of the present invention. The second embodiment improves the first embodiment with regard to the differential noise. The second embodiment differs from the construction of Fig. 5 in the provision of the following a resistor R and Also, the values of the capacitors C₀ and C₁ are selected to be negligible impedances in terms of AC. Under there conditions, the non inverting input terminal of the OP AMP A₁ is supplied with a voltage V ₁, due to the noise voltage V Here, if the resistance values are predetermined to be as R On the other hand, the voltage V ₁ at the non inverting input terminal of the OP AMP A₁ assumes the following value due to the noise voltage V As a result, an equation V ₁ V ₁ stands, which means that no signal effected by power source noise appears at the output terminal of the OP AMP A₁. This holds true for the OP AMP A₀ as well. Therefore, V ₀ V ₀ stands. This means that no signal effected by power source noise appears at the output terminal thereof. As understood from the above, the battery feed circuit according to the second embodiment is advantageous in that, even if power source noise is induced, differential noise resulting therefrom does not appear in the subscriber lines A and B. The second embodiment can be further improved, however. In Fig. 6, the OP AMP s A₀ and A₁ continuously attempt to feed the constant currents even when the subscriber unit U is in an on hook state, i.e., even when no loop current is needed. This is because the non inverting input terminals of the OP AMP s A₀ and A₁ are continuously supplied with voltages divided by the related resistors between the ground GD and the power source V The above fact also applies to the OP AMP A₁. Therefore, its output voltage increases as high as possible. Thus, a constant current, identical to that mentioned above, flows. Alternatively, it pulls a current at its output terminal as large as possible. Figure 7 is a circuit diagram of a battery feed circuit for a subscriber line according to a third embodiment of the present invention. The problem of the second embodiment of the uneconomical flow of current is improved. The difference relative to the construction of Fig. 6 lies in the provision of a resistor R The current during the on hook state can be limited by the resistors R The resistor R Incidentally, the amplifier A₂ in each embodiment is not limited to a gain of 1 and may have a gain of over 1. If the gain G is higher than 1, the impedance in terms of the common mode noise induced in the subscriber lines A and B can advantageously be reduced by 1 G. On the other hand, however, such an amplifier A₂ of a gain G G 1 cannot simply be fabricated, because a usual voltage follower cannot be used. Instead, a special non inversion circuit is needed. Referring again to the second and third embodiments shown in Figs. 6 and 7, these embodiments not only suppress undesired common mode noise, but also deleterious power source noise V Figure 8 is a circuit diagram for explaining the principle of a fourth embodiment. The construction of Fig. 8 is substantially the same as Figs. 6 and 7. The intermediate voltage output circuit IV is illustrated simply as a circuit block. The resistors R Figure 9 depicts schematic diagrams of voltages appearing at major portions in Fig. 8. In Fig. 9, first, the voltage V₃ is preset as 0V and the voltage V₄ is preset as a level equal to the power source noise voltage V Thus, the voltages V₁ and V₂ are applied to the non inverting input terminals of the OP AMP s A₀ and A₁, respectively. Then, identical voltages V₁ and V₂ appear at their inverting input terminals due to the well known phenomenon of imaginary short circuits inherent to an operational amplifier. Therefore, noise currents i Where, 0 denotes the ground GD level. The noise currents i Returning again to Fig. 9, the voltages V₁ and V₂ at the non inverting input terminals of the OP AMP s A₀ and A₁ appear also at the inverting input terminals . This is due to the aforesaid imaginary short circuits and is schematically indicated with broken line arrows in Fig. 9, i.e., V₁ V₁ and V₂ V₂. Under this condition, the voltage diagrams shown by Fig. 9 stand if the following proportional equations are satisfied. Conversely, if the resistance values R6, R81, R7, and R82 are determined as to satisfy the above recited two proportional equations, the related equations V₃ 0 and V₄ V As apparent from Figs. 6 and 7, the number of the resistors and capacitors is relatively large compared with the first embodiment of Fig. 5. From this viewpoint, the battery feed circuit according to the second and third embodiments can be improved in view of cost. Even a single reduction in the resistors and capacitors is beneficial for a switching system from the economical viewpoint, because battery feed circuits are allotted for every subscriber unit. If Figure 10 is a circuit diagram of a battery feed circuit according to the fourth embodiment of the present invention. In the fourth embodiment, the inverting input terminals of the OP AMP s A₀ and A₁ are connected to each other via both a resistor R The voltages V₁ and V₂, appearing at the points P Voltages identical to V₁ and V₂ also appear, due to imaginary short circuits , at the inverting input terminals of the OP AMP s A₀ and A₁. This being so, the aforesaid noise currents i Figure 11 depicts schematic diagrams of voltages appearing at major portions in Fig. 10. The method of reading the diagrams is similar to that of Fig. 9. The difference with Fig. 9 is that the voltages V₁ and V₂ refer to GD V These are rewritten as follows or If the resistance values R6, R7 and R8 are determined to satisfy either one of these two proportional equations, the conditions V₃ 0 and V₄ V Figure 12 is a circuit diagram of a battery feed circuit according to a fifth embodiment of the present invention. The battery feed circuit of the fifth embodiment an improved version of the second embodiment and features a reduced number of electrical components. Figure 13 is a circuit diagram of a battery feed circuit according to a sixth embodiment of the present invention. This corresponds to a similar improved version of the third embodiment. As explained above in detail, the battery feed circuit according to the present invention is superior in view of one or more of power consumption, suppression of common mode noise, and suppression of power source noise.