# Processes for preparing tri heterocyclic substituted methanes and their conversion into further intermediates useful in the preparation of pharmacologically active compounds.

## Abstract
The present invention provides a process for preparing useful chemical intermediates, tri heterocyclic substituted methanes, and their conversion into further intermediates useful in the preparation of pharmacologically active compounds, such as trimethoprim and allopurinol.

## Claims
WHAT WE CLAIM 1. A process for preparing a tri sec aminQ methane of the formula EMI30.1 whereinEMI30.2 forms a morpholino, piperidino orN methylpiperazino group, which comprises the reaction of an orthoformate of the fomula I EMI30.3 wherein R1, R2 and R3 are the same or different and each is a C1 4 alkyl group, with the appropriate Sixmembered saturated heterocycleEMI30.4 in the presence of an acid or an acid Sal t catal yst, under conditions which allow the alkanol formed to be continuously removed. 2. A process according to claim 1 wherein the orthoformate of the formula I is triethyl orthoformate. 3. A process according to either claim 1 or 2 wherein the molar ratio of the heterocycleEMI31.1 to orthoformate is 2 1. 4. A process according to any one of claims 1 5 wherein the acid or acid salt is selected from benzoic acids, sulphuric acid, NaHS04, KaH2P04, p toluenesulphonic acid, pivalic acid and glacial acetic acid. 5. A process according to any one of claims 1 4 wherein the acid or acid salt is present in the range of 0.5 to 20 mole per cent based on the theoretical yield of the tri sec aminomethane. 6. A process according to any one of claims 1 5 wherein the reaction is carried out in the presence of a suitable solvent as hereinbefore defined. 7. A process for the preparation of a compound of the formula V EMI32.1 whereinEMI32.2 is morpholine, piperidine or N methylpiperazine, which comprises the reaction of cyanoacetamide with a tri sec aminomethane of the formulaEMI32.3 as hereinbefore defined. A A process for the preparation of a compound of the formula VIII EMI32.4 Wherein R8 R9, R10 and Rll are the same or different and each is a hydrogen or a halogen atom, an alkyl, alkoxy or benzyloxy group, or R10 and R11 taken together may be a methylenedioxy group andEMI32.5 is a morpholino, piperidino or N methylpiperazino group, which comprises the reaction of a compound of the formula IX EMI33.1 wherein R8, R9, R10 and Rll are as hereinbefore defined with a tri sec aminomethane of the formulaEMI33.2 as hereinbefore defined. 9. A process according to claim 8 wherein equimolar quantities of the reactants or a slight excess of the tri sec aminomethane is employed.

## Description
This invention relates to a method of preparation of a one carbon reagent suitable for use ill the synthesis of pharmaceuticals.Most particularly, the present invention relates to a method of preparation of certain tri sec aminomethanes and their use in the preparation of intermediates suitable for the synthesis of pharmaceuticals. A number of methods of synthesis of trisec aminomethanes are known from the literature. Scheeren and Nivard, Rec. Trav. Chim., 1969, 88, 289 disclosed two methods for the preparation of tri sec aminomethanes. According to their first method, the compounds may be synthesised from chloroform, methanolic sodium methoxide and the appropriate secondary amine.The yield by this method for trimorpholinomethane is of the order of 475 with an additional 31 obtainable by reprocessing the filtrate with morpholine, but although this is quite a reasonable yield, the process requires strictly anhydrous conditions and is somewhat complicated for large scale work. For the other tri secaminomethanes reported herein, the yield is considerably lower.Scheeren and Nvard s second disclosed method describes tlie preparat ion of tri sec aminomethanes from the appropriate secondary amine and dimethylformamide dimethyl acetic. Although thc. yield was 7 ó when the secondary amine was morpholine, tllC very high cost of dimethylformamide dimethyl acctal inhibits the application of this synthesis on a commercial scale.Again, for a number of the other ti i c aminomethanes reported therein, the yield is considerably lowcr. Bredereck et. al. Liebigs Ann. Chem., 1972, 762, 62 describe the reaction of the adduct of N formylmorpholine and dimethyl sulphate with excess morpholine to form dimorphol inoformamidinium methyl sulphate, with a subsequent reaction with potassium methylate.An equilibrium exists in this latter reaction which is driven towards trimorpholinomethane by the fact that it precipitates. This synthesis, however, is difficult due to hygroscopic intermediates and heterogeneous reaction mixtures and furthermore, the yield of trimorpholinomethane, based on N formylmorpholine as starting material is only 21 . It has now been found that tri secaminomethanes may be prepared by a method that is convenient, economical and high yielding. According to one aspect of the present invention, therefore, there is provided a process for preparing a tri sec aminomethane of the formula EMI3.1 where inEMI3.2 forms a morpholino, piperidino or an N methylpiperazino group, which process comprises the reaction of an orthoformate of the formula I EMI3.3 wherein R1, R2 and R3 are the same or different and each is a C14 alkyl group, with the appropriate six membered saturated h. te rocycleEMI3.4 in the presence of an acid or acid salt catalyst, under conditions which allow the alkanol formed to be continuously removed. The above reaction to produce the tri secaminomethanes is a reaction leading to an equilibrium and thus in order for it to proceed to completion, the removal of the alkanol side products is necessary. In order to accomplish this, the reaction may, for instance, be run under reflux, removal of the side products being effected either by use of a heated, e.g. steamjacketed reflux column, or by use of a normal reflux column in combination with molecular sieves for scavenging the unwanted alkanols or by removing the side product by azeotropy with a suitable solvent. The first method has the slight disadvantage that high er temperatures in the reaction medium are involved. With regard to the orthoformates employed in the process of the present invention, a general requirement when using a steam jacketed column is that an orthoformate having a boiling point greater than 1000C, derived from an alkanol boiling below 1000C, is suitable to achieve appropriate separation o the latter in the reaction. Mixed orthoformates may also be used provided they fulfill the above requirement, but they are generally less available commercially than those where all three alkoxy groups are the same, and for the purposes of the present invention, triethyl orthoformate is the most preferred orthoformate.The molar ratio of heterocycleEMI5.1 to orthoformate in the orocess of the present invention is conveniently in the range of 1 2 to 4 1, preferably in the range of 1 1 to 3 1, and most preferably in the ratio of 2 . Catalysts for use in the present invention may be any acid or acid salt which is stable at the reaction temperature. Preferably they are anhydrous and examples of acids and acid salts which may be employed for the purposes of the present invention as catalysts are benzoic acids, sulphuric acid, NaHS04, KaH2P04, pivalic acid, g toluenesulphonic acid and most preferably glacial acetic acid. More than one catalyst may be employed at any one time although it is preferable to use only a single catalyst. The concentration of catalyst required for the process of the present invention is conveniently in the range of 0.5 to 20 mole per cent based on theoretical yield of the tri sec aminomethane and preferably in the range of 1 to 15 mole per cent based on the theoretical yield of the tri sec aminomethane.It should be noted that to o much acid or acid salt catalyst could cause the formation of a complex with the secondary gamine or else consume the orthoformate employed. Although no solvent is required for the process of the present invention, it has been found that solvents may be used with advantage if so desired. Suitable solvents are those which are inert to orthoformates, to the amine and to the combination. Thus, it is preferred to use solvents.which are not protic or esters and do not contain acidic C H, CH2 or CH3 groups.In addition, the boiling point of the solvent must be above 1000C if a steam jacketed column is used. The most suitable solvents are aromatic solvents such as benzene, toluene and xylene and also ethers such as dioxane and diglyme. Benzene and toluene are particularly preferred since the alkanol by product may be removed as an azeotrope. The tri sec aminomethanes of the present invention have been found to be useful onecarbon reagents, and may be used in the preparation of intermediates, such as 3 aminopyrazole 4 carboxamide hemisulphate, a 3,4,5 trimethoxybenzyl ss piperidino acrylonitrile and a 3,4,5 trimethoxybenzyl 3 morpholino acrylonitrile, which are suitable for the synthesis of pharmaceuticals, and in particular for the synthesis of pyrexzolo23,4 pyrimidines and 2,4 diamino 5 benzylpyrimidines. 4 Hydroxypyrazolo ,4 pyrimidine, which is also known as allopurinol, is active as an inhibitor of the enzyme xanthine oxidase which catalyses the oxidation of most purines to uric acid in viva. Allopurinol has thus been found to relieve the symptoms of gout since it greatly diminishes the amount of uric acid formed. In the same manner, it slows down the oxidation of 6 mercaptopurine to 6 thiouric acid, thus permitting smaller doses of 6mercaptopurine to be employed. Allopurinol is administered to patients in relatively large doses, generally in the range of 100 to 800 mg per person per day, but sometimes in still larger doses. Also, allopurinol is given over protracted periods. The purity of the product is thus of even greater importance than with most pharmaceuticals. Some contaminants have been found difficult and expensive to remove from the final product and it is consequently of great practical importance that a method of synthesis should not only be quantitatively efficient, but also that the final product should be extremely pure. Examples of other pyrazolo,4 pyrimidines possessing valuable xanthine oxidase inhibiting activity are 4,6 4 4,6 dihydroxypyrazolo 2,4 d pyrimidine, also known as oxypurinol, and 4 mercaptopyrazolo 3,4 d pyrimidine, also known as thiopurinol. A number of methods of synthesis are known for pyrazolo 23,4 i pyrimidines such as those described above. For example, allopurinol may be prepared by reacting ethoxymethylenemalononitrile with hydrazine to give 3 amino 4cyanopyrazole, hydrolysing the 3 amino 4 cyanopyrazole to 3 aminopyrazole 4 carboxamide, and reacting the 3 aminopyrazole 4 carboxamide with formamide and or formic acid. Oxypurinol may be prepared by a similar synthetic route in which urea is used instead of formamide and or formic acid. A more recent method of synthesis is that which is described in BritishPatent Specification No. 1 252 435.In this method, a compound of formula II EMI9.1 wherein R6 is a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, R5 is a hydroxy group or a mercapto group, and R4 is a hydrogen atom or a hydroxy group, provided that R4 is not a hydroxy group when R5 is a mercapto grop, is prepared by reacting a compound of formula III EMI9.2 with hydrazine to produce a compound of formula IV EMI10.1 and reacting a compcund of formula IV with urea or with formamide and or formic acid to produce a compound of formula II . The reaction of a compound of formula I 11 with hydrazine is conveniently carried out in the presence of heat. The compound of formula IV produced by the reaction is a base but, if it is to be isolated, it is preferably converted by reaction with an acid into a salt, desirably a salt of a pharmaceutically acceptable acid such as sulphuric acid. A compound of formula II so produced by the complete sequence can be converted to a different compound of formula II by standard methods. For example, 4 hydroxy pyrazolo 3,4 pyrimidine can be converted to 4mercaptopyrazolo r3,4 cEIpyrimi0ine by reaction with a sulphide such as phosphorus pentasulphide. The preparation of compounds of formula III is described in British Patent SpecificationNo. 1 252 436. In this method, the morpholiro cyanoacrylamides.are prepared by reacting a compound R6C OR7 3, wherein R7 is an alkyl group having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, and is preferably an ethyl group, and R6 is as hereinabove defined, with cyanoacetamide and morpholino under reflux. It has now been found that the compound of formula IIï wherein R6 is a hydrogen atom can be prepared more conveniently and in higher yield than by that described in the aforementioned Patent Specification by reacting cyanoacetamide with trimorpholinomethane.The 3 piperidino and 3 N methylpiperazino analogues of the compound of the formula III wherein R6 is a hydrogen atom can also be prepared according to the present invention by reacting cyanoacetamide with tripiperidinomethane and tri N methylpiperazinomethane respectively. These compounds can then be converted into a compound of the formula IV wherein R6 is a hydrogen atom by the reaction with hydrazine. Accordingly in a further aspect, the present invention provides a process for the preparation of a compound of the formula V EMI12.1 whereinEMI12.2 is morpholine, piperidine or N methylpiperazine, which process comprises the reaction of cyanoacetamide with a tri secaminomethane of the formulaEMI12.3 as hereinbefore defined. Preferably equimolar quantities or a slight excess of trimorpholinomethane is employed in the reaction, which may preferably be carried out in the presence of an alanol, for example ethanol, as solvent and at a temperature in the range of 20 to 1000C, preferably 35 to 6 most preferably 550C. The reaction is simple and convenient to perform, the reactants dissolving readily in the reaction medium, and proceeds to completion in a relatively short time without the necessity of refluxing. Furthermore, the solvent and the morpholine by product are easily removed in vacuo to give a high yield pure product. Samples of pure allopurinol and related compounds may be synthesised from 3 morpholino 2 cyancacrylamide which has been prepared by the method of the present invention. 2,4 Diamino 5 benzylpyrimidines possess both antimalarial and antibacterial activities J. Chem. Soc. 1951 , 73, 37 58 . Maximal antibacterial activity is found among derivatives which bear electron donating substituents in the benzene nucleus and are unsubstituted in the 6th position of the pyrimidine moiety. 2,4 Diamino 5 3 ,4 5 trimethoxybenzyl pyrimidine or trimethoprim U.S. Patent No. 2 909 522 has a moderately broad antibacterial spectrum which includes many of the Gram positive species but is also active against species of the genusProteus. In common with other 2,4 diaminopyrimidines it is a competitor of folic and folinic acids in microorganisms which require these nutrients and it can be shown to inhibit dihydrofolate reductase in S. faecalis.A strong potentiative effect is observed when the dig is administered in combination with sulphonamides as a consequence of the sequential blockade of the biochemical pathway which leads to the de novo synthesis of coenzyme F. 2,4diamino 5 benzylpyrimidines, which include trimethoprim ad 2 ,4 diamino 5 3 ,4 dimethoxy benzyl pyrimidine or diaveridine U.S. PatentNo. 2 658 897 , may be administered orally at a dose of 1 mg kg to 30 mg kg per day. A number of methods of synthesis are known for 2,4 diamino benzylpyrimidines such as those described above. For example, they may be prepared by the method of Stenbuck et. al. 1963 , 28, 1983 British PatentSpecification No. 957 797 , This route comprises the steps of condensing an aromatic aldehyde with a 6 substituted propionitrile in the presence of both an alkanol as solvent and a strong base to give a mixture of isomeric intermediates, and reacting these intermediates with guanidine to give a 5 benzylpyrimidine. A more recent method of synthesis is that which is described in British Patent SpecificationNo. 1 261 455. In this method, a compound of formula VI EMI15.1 wherein R8 , R9 R1O and R11 are the same or different and each is a hydrogen or a halogen atom, an alkyl, alkoxy or benzyloxy group, or R10 and R11 taken together may be a methylenedioxy group is prepared by reacting a compound of formula VII , substantially free from contamination with the a amino a benzylidenepropionitrile isomer,EMI15.2 wherein R8 R9, R1O and R11 are as hereinbefore defined and NR12Rl3 is as hereinbelow defined, with guanidine. The 6 amino group NR12 is an aliphatic, heterocyclic or aromatic group, and can only have one hydrogen for R12 and R13, and the above reaction is preferably performed at reflux temperature. The compounds of formula VII are prepared by reacting the corresponding benzaldehyde with the corresponding S amino propionitrile in the presence of a base in a polar aprotic solvent compatibel with and dissolving both reactants. It has now been found that the compounds of formula VI wherein the NR12R13 moiety is a groupEMI16.1 as defined herein may be prepared conveniently by reacting the corresponding 8 phenylpropionitrile with the appropriate trisec aminomethane. Thus, according to a further aspect of the present invention there is provided a process for the preparation of a compound of formula VIII EMI16.2 wherein R8 R9, R1O and Rill are as hereinbefore defined which comprises reacting a compound of formula IX EMI17.1 wherein R8 R9 R10 and R11 are as hereinbefore defined ith a tri sec aminomethane of the formulaEMI17.2 as defined herein. Preferably equimolar quantities of reactants or a slight excess of the tri sec aminomethane is employed in the reaction which is carried out without a solvent, in which case the compound of the formula IX is preferably first melted before addition of the tri sec aminomethane. The reaction is carried out under an inert gas atmosphere, for example nitrogen or argon, or under vacuum at a temperature of 110 to 1900C, preferably 1300 to 1700C, most preferably 150 C. The reaction is simple and convenient to perform and proceeds to completion in a relatively short time, for example to 4 hours. The following Examples illustrate the invention but are not intended to limit it in any way. EXAMPLE 1Trimorpholinomethane biorpholine 87.1 g , triethyl orthoformate 74.1 g , and acetic acid 3.0 g were combined and heated for 2 hours at reflux using a steamjacketed column for continuous removal of ethanol.The residual solution in the reaction vessel, having reached a temperature of 1800C, was allowed to cool so that the product could crystallise out.The crystals were filtered, washed with ether, and immediately dried in vacuo, due to the hygroscopic character of the crystals to yield trimorpholinomethane 57.1 g 63.1t of theoretical yield m.p. 147 151 C, n.m.r. CDCl3 6 1.42 , 12, CH2N , 3.27 s, 1, HC N 3 , and 3.65 Ct, 12, CH2O EXAMPLE 2Trimorpholinomethane The procedure of Example 1 was followed with the exception that p toluenesulphonic acid 1.0 g was used instead cf acetic acid as catalyst.Trimorpholinomethane 51.2 g 56 of theoretical yield was obtained. EXAMPLE 3 3 Morphol ino 2 cyanoacrylamide A slurry of trimorpholinomethane 29.9 g in ethanol t100 ml was added to a solution of cyanoacetamide F.4 g in ethanol 150 ml at 55 0C. All material dissolved rapidly. After 30 minutes the ethanol and the morpholine by product were removed in vacuo, and the residue was washed with ether and rived to yield 3 morpholino 2cyanoacrylamide 16.4 g 91 of theoretical yield m.p. 170 174 C. EXAMPLE 4Tri N methylpiperazino methane N methylpiperazine 100.2 g, 1.0 mol , triethyl orthoformate 74.1 g, 0.5 mol , and acetic acid 3.0 g, ofos mol were combined and heated to reflux using a steam jacketed column for continuous removal of ethanol. After 2 hours the pot temperature had risen to 1800 from X 1300 initially . The reaction mixture was cooled and subjected to vacuum distillation 0.1 mmHg to remove unreacted starting materials and someN formyl N methylpiperazine. Upon cooling the pot residue solidified.The solid was triturated with 100 ml of ether and filtered to yield 40.7 g 39.3t of tri N methylpiperazino methane. Concentration of the ether wash gave a second crop, 32.4 g 31.3t . NMR CDCl3 6 2.25 s, 9, CH3N , 2.3 t, 12, piperazine ing H , 3.07 t, 12, piperazine ring H , and 3.3 s, 1, HC N 3 .EXAMPLE 5Tripiperidinomethane Piperidine 153.3 g, 1.8Q mol , triethyl orthoformate 133.4 g, 0.90 mol , and acetic acid 3.6 g, 0.06 mol wer combined in a 500 ml threeneck round bottom flask equipped with a thermometer and a steam jacketed condenser. The reactants were heated to a gentle reflux initial pot temperature X 1120 . The heat input was gradually increased during 29.5 hours of reflux the final pot temperature was 144 C. The reaction solution was allowed to cool and stand overnight and then was concentrated in vacuo.High vacuum distillation of the crude product gave 19.3 g of N formylpiperidine b.p. a 60 70 0.1 0.2 mmHg and 69.6 g 43.7t yield of tripiperidinomethane b.p. 98 106 0.05 0.1 mmHg . EXAMPLE 6Tripiperidinomethane Piperidine 170.3 g, 2.0 mol , triethyl orthoformate C74.1 g, 0.50 mol , and acetic acid 3.0 g, 0.05 mol were refluxed together for 22 hours using a steam jacketed condenser packed with glass helices. The mixture was then placed on a rotary evaporator to remove unreacted piperidine and triethyl orthoformate, and then subjected to vacuum distillation to remove the by product N formylpiperidine.The residue of tripiperidinomethane 665.6 g, 49 crystallised upon standing, m.p. 42 480C. NMR CDCl3 1.41Cs, 18, CCH2 3 , 2.60 Cs, 12, N CH2 2 , 3.14 s, 1, CH N 3 EXAMPLE 7Trimorpholinomethane Morpholine 52.3 g, 0.60 mol , trimethyl orthoformate 42..5 g, 0.40 mol , and acetic acid 1.2 g, 0.02 mol were refluxed together for 24 hours using a Soxhlet extractor filled with lOO.g of 4A molecular sieves. Upon cooling the mixture solidified. The solid was triturated with ether, filtered, washed, and dried overnight in a vacuum dessicator to give 24.1 g 45 of trimorphol inomethane. EXAMPLE 8Trimorpholinomethane Morpholine C26.1 g, 0.30 mol , triethyl orthoformate C29.6 g, 0.20 mol , pivalic acid 1.0 g, 0.01 mol , and toluene 500 mls were heated to boiling in a distillation apparatus.Continuous azeotropic distillation of toluene removed the ethanol by product. During the first four hours, 325 mls of distillate. were collected.Fresh toluene 250 mls was added and the distillation continued for another two hours with an additional 260 mls collected Upon cooling, the crystalline product was removed by filtration 8.5 g, 316 . Evaporation of solvent and trituration of the residue with ether gave a second crop 3.4 g, 13z . Concentration of the mother liquor yielded a third. crop 5.0 g, 18z . The total yield was 16.9 g 62z . EXAMPLES 9 19 Using methods strictly analogous to those described in Examples 1 8 herein ortho amides were prepared from the following starting materials in stated yields under the following conditions FINAL AMINE ORTHOFORMATE ACID TEMP. TTME YIELD METHO moles moles moles C hours ortho amidePiperidine Triethyl Acetic 2.0 0.50 0.05 158 22 49 dPiperidine Triisopropyl Acetic 0.64 0.16 0.016 123 22 62 dPiperidine Triethyl Pivalic 140 23 51 d 2.0 O.S0 0.05 Morpholine Triethyl Pivalic 0.60 0.40 0.02 170 1.5 66 a bbrpholine Triethyl KH2P04 0.60 0.40 0.02 170 21.5 57 aMorpholine Triethyl 4 Chloro 0.60 0.40 benzoic 0.02 156 22 52 aMorpholine Trimethyl Acetic 0.60 0.40 0.02 142 24 45 f RTI ID 23.6 k rpholine Triethyl t ivalic 0.30 0.20 0.01 114 6 62 e 2,6 dimethyl Triethyl Acetic morpholine 0.80 0.04 142 4. 52 1.20 Morpholine Triethyl 2 toluene 1.0 0.50 sulfonic 165 18 57 a 0.005 Morpholine Tricthyl Acetic 1.G 0.50 0.05 180 2 63 a a Straight bore steam jacketed condenser.Crystalline product filtered from reaction mixture.b straight bore steam jacketed condenser.Product distilled under vacuum.c Straight bore steam jacketed condenser.Product isolated as pot residue after vacuum distillation.d Steam jacketed condenser packed with glass helices. Product isolated as pot residue after vacuum distillation.e Continuous azeotropic distillation of toluene solvent. Crystalline product filtered from reaction mixture.f Soxhlet extractor filled with molecular sieves. Crystalline product filtered from reaction mixture. Product contained 13 of the ethyl ester aminal. EXAMPLE 20 a 3,4,S Trimethoxybenzyl S morpholinoacrylonitrile ss 63,4,5 Trimethoxyphenyl propionitrile 4.40 g prepared from 3,4,5 trimethoxybenzaldehyde and cyanoacetic acid followed by catalytic hydrogenation, was melted in a flask equipped with a mechanical stirrer, thermometer, and gas inlet tube. Trimorpholinomethane 5.4 g was added, and a nitrogen atmosphere was established. The temperature was raised to 1500C and maintained for 3 hours. After cooling to room temperature the solid was washed thoroughly with ether and filtered. The crude product was purified by treatment with a warm mixture of chloroform hexane 1 1 and filtration to remove a small amount of insolubles. Evaporation of the solvent gave t3,4,5 trimethoxybenzyl ss morpholino acrylonitrile 2.4 g 38to of theoretical yie d . M.P. 105 107 C. EXAMPLE 21 3 Aminopyrazole 4 carboxamide hemi sulphate To water 253 ml at 600 C was added 3 morpholino 2 cyar.nacrylamide 63.4 g and 85t of technical hydrazine hydrate 22.7 g . The mixture was rapidly heated to 95 C and the temperature was maintained at 90 0C for 20 minutes. The mixture was then cooled to 60 0C and the pH carefully adjusted to 1.5 by the addition of a mixture of sulphuric acid 45.7 g and ice 645.7 g .The acidified reaction mixture was cooled to 5 0C and the crystalline product collected and washed with cold water 2 x 100 ml and acetone 2 x 50 ml . The product was dried in vacuo at 800C. Wt. 5.8 g. Yield 95tv M.P. 237 239 CEXAMPLE 22 4 Hydroxypyrazolo 3,4 d pyrimidine allopurinoi A suspension of 3 aminopyrazole 4 carboxamide hemisulphate 113 g in formamide 325 ml was stirred and heated to 145 C. The reaction was then cooled to 30 C and the product collected and washed with formamide 62 x 50 ml , water 2 x 150 ml and acetone 2 x 100 ml . Wt. of crude product 79 g.The crude product was recrystallised by dissolution in a solution made from sodium hydroxide 25 g in water 1200 ml with treatment at 25 C with charcoal t8 g followed by reprecipitation by the addition of concentrated hydrochloric acids to pH 5. The product was collected and washed with cold water t2 x 300 ml , acetone 2 x 200 ml and dried in vacuo at 600C. Wt. 70 g. Yield 80 . EXAMPLE 23 2,4 Diamino S 3 ,4 ,5 trimethoxybenzyl pyrimidine trimethoprim alpha 3,4,5 Trimethoxybenzyl ss morpholino acrylonitrile C32.0 g , guanidine carbonate C34.0 g and dimethylsulphoxide t50 ml were heated together at 1600C for 1 hour with stirring. The reaction mixture was cooled and poured into ice water C200 ml , and gave 2,4 diamino 5 3 ,4 ,5 trimethoxybenzyl pyrimidine which was collected and washed with water and acetone. Wt. 23.6 g 80t theoretical yield . M.P. 196 198 0C. EXAMPLE 24 a 3,4,S Trimethoxybenzyl piperidinoacrylonitrile Tripiperidinom thane 1.86 g, 7 mmol and 3 3,4,5 trimetloxyphenyl propionitrile 1.11 g, 5 mmol were combined quickly and heated for 18 hours at 1350C Cpot temperature under house vacuum 125 mmHg . The resultant brown oil was taken up in ether 3 ml and placed on a short silica gel column. The column was washed with dichloromethane and the washings concentrated to an oil which solidified on standing. The product was washed with ether 3 x 10 ml and dried to yield 0.88 g 55.54 of a beige solid m.p. 100 101.5 C , whose nmr spectrum was consistent with the desired structure.A second crop of light yellow solid Cm.p. 86 92 C was isolated from the combined ether washings. NMR.analysis showed the second crop to be an 85 15 mixture of expected product and starting nitrile. The combined assay yield for the two crors was 1.075 g 68.0t . EXAMPLE 25 2 Cyano 3 piperidinoacrylamide Tripiperidinomethane 58.4 g, 0.22 mpl and cyanoacetamide 16.8 g, 0.20 mol were combined in 200 mls of ethanol and stirred for 4.5 hours at room. temperature. After cooling, the crystals were filtered, washed, and dried to give 25.3 g 71 of 1 cyano 3 piperidinoacrylamide, m.p. 159 161 C.NMR CDCl3 6 1.70 ss 6, CH2 3 , d 3.50 and 3.90 two broadened singlets, 4, N CH2 2 , 6 5.95 broad s, exchange with D20, 2, NH2 , 6 7.90Cs, 1, CH . Elemental analysis, calculated for CgH13N30 C,60.32 H,7.31 N,23.45t. Found C,60.39 H,7.39 N,23.53 . EXAMPLE 26 3 Aminopyrazolc 4 carboxamide hemisulfate To a solution of 2 cyano 3 piperidinoacrylamide 7.90 g, O.044 mol in 75 mls of ethanol at 660C was added a solution of 85 hydrazine hydrate 2.86 g, 0.048 mol in 10 mls of ethanol. After refluxing for three hours, the mixture was cooled to 50 C and a solution of concentrated H2S04 6.46 g, 0.066 mol in 20 mls of ethanol was added. After cooling, t ie product was filtered, washed, and dried to give 6.16 g t808 of 3 aminopyrazole 4 carboxamide hemisulfate, 918 pure by uv analysis.