# Body for a pressure resistant vessel

## Claims
Druckbeständiger Behälter, der einen Körper 1 und Endstücke aus Metall 44 , die durch Hochfrequenz Heißsiegeln an den Körper 1 angeschweißt sind, aufweist, wobei der Körper 1 einen zylindrischen Körper, der als den Inhalt schützende Schicht 2 dient und eine äußere die Formbeständigkeit bewirkende Schicht 3 , um die Form des Behälters aufrechtzuerhalten, enthält, wobei die den Inhalt schützende Schicht 2 in der Weise aufgebaut ist, daß eine Laminatfolie A, B, C, D , die drei Schichten aus Polyolefin Gassperre Kunststoff einschließt, derart auf einen Dorn 12 aufgewickelt worden ist, daß eine Seitenkante 4 der Laminatfolie A, B, C, D mit der Polyolefinschicht nach innen auswärts gefaltet ist und in der Weise verklebt ist, daß darunter keine Luftblasen eingeschlossen sind, und die andere Seitenkante 4 der Laminatfolie A, B, C, D in der Weise auf den gefalteten Teil aufgelegt und mit diesem verklebt ist, daß keine Luftblasen zwischen ihnen eingeschlossen sind, wobei die Laminatfolie A, B, C, D auf der Außenseite der Kunststoffschicht eine monoaxial verstreckte Folie E aus kristallinem Polymerem aufweist und wobei die die Formbeständigkeit bewirkende Schicht 3 eine Schicht aufweist, die durch sprialförmiges Aufwickeln einer monoaxial verstreckten Folie aus kristallinem Polymerem erhalten würde, wobei die aus Metall bestehen den Endstücke 44 mit mindestens einem Polymermaterial beschichtet sind, das ausgewählt ist unter modifiziertem Polyolefin, einem Gemisch aus modifiziertem Polyolefin und Epoxyphenolharz, und einem Gemisch aus modifiziertem Polyolefin und Epoxy Harnstoffharz.

## Description
This invention relates to a container partially made of plastics material, the container having resistance to internal pressure and being suitable as, for example, a can for holding a carbonated drink known from EP A 27677 . In particular embodiments, the present invention relates to improvements in the invention disclosed in EP A 0113160 published on 11.07.1984 . Cans required to resist internal pressure, for example those for holding carbonated drinks, have hitherto usually been made exclusively of metal. One of the disadvantages of these cans is the environmental pollution caused by the cans when they are discarded. Another disadvantage of these cans is their low efficiency of transportation as it is usually necessary to transport new and empty cans occupying a large space from a can manufacturing factory to another factory where they are used for packing a product . Plastics are easy to mould and are therefore already used for making various kinds of vessels. The manufacture of plastic cans is described in, for example, JP A 11146 1983, JP A 153629 1983, JP A 209561 1983, JP U 35315 1984 and JP U 35333 1 984. However, conventional plastic cans are unsatisfactory in their internal pressure resistance, and are unsuitable for holding carbonated drinks. In EP A 0027677, there is disclosed a method for the manufacture of packing containers from a monoaxially molecular oriented striplike polyester film, wherein a polyester strip, monoaxially molecular oriented in the strip direction, is spirally wound into a mandrel to form a tube, the edge zones of successive turns of the strip being made to overlap one another and being sealed together in a continuous joint by means of an applied adhesive or by means of surface fusion in the overlap zone, the width of the said strip being 75 150 of the diameter of the tube. In GB A 2124997, there is disclosed a sealed laminated vessel comprising a barrel which is composed of a laminate comprising a metal foil, paper and inner and outer heat sealable resin layers and has a straight seam on the side surface thereof and a heat sealable resin layer covering at least the inner side of the seam, a circumferential end edge portion for heat sealing being formed on at least one open end portion of the barrel by outwardly bending or curling the free end thereof, a lid member which is composed of a laminate having a metal foil and heat sealable resin inner layer and has on the periphery thereof a groove or flange engaged with said circumferential end edge portion, and a heat sealed portion formed between the circumferential end edge portion of the barrel and the groove or flange of the lid member. The peripheral end heat sealed portion formed by the lap seaming, the thickness of the heat sealable resin layer between the metal foil of the barrel and the metal foil of the lid member is 0.2 to 0.7 times the total thickness of the heat sealable resin inner layers of the barrel and lid member or the total thickness of the heat sealable resin inner layers of the barrel and lid member and the heat sealable resin covering layer. The heat sealable resin layer is filled in a step formed between both the metal foils contiguous to the peripheral end heat sealed portion substantially completely. In FR A 2383091, there is disclosed a cylindrical container body made entirely of organic material for packaging pressurised and non pressurised materials, including pressurised carbonated beverages, comprising a at least one film of a synthetic or semi synthetic organic polymer having a particular permeability to oxygen b at least two films of a polyester and c at least two layers of an organic thermoplastic binder comprising a water repellant wax, said binder having a particular pemeability to water vapour. All the films of a and b are adhesively bonded together by means of the binder of c in the form of a cylindrical body, the wall of which has a spirally or convolutely wound structure. The film or each of the films constituting a is separated both from the outside surface and from the inside surface of the cylindrical body by at least one film of b and at least one layer of c . The total thickness of element a , the total thickness of element b and the total thickness of element c being within the particular ranges the range. According to the present invention, there is provided a pressure resistant container having a body and metal ends which are high frequency heat sealed to the body, said body comprising a cylindrical body which serves as a contents protecting layer and an external shape retention layer to keep the shape of the container, said contents protecting layer being constructed in such way that a laminate film including three layers comprising polyolefin gas barrier plastic is wound on a mandrel in such a way that one side edge of the laminate film is folded back outward with the polyolefin layer inside, and bonded in such way that air bubbles are not entrapped thereunder, and the other side edge of the laminate film is superimposed on and bonded to the folded part in such way that air bubbles are not entrapped between them, wherein said laminated film has a uniaxially stretched film of crystalline polymer on the outside of the plastic layer and wherein said shape retention layer has a layer obtained by spirally winding a uniaxially stretched film of crystalline polymer, said metal ends being coated with at least one polymeric material selected from modified polyolefin, a mixture of modified polyolefin and epoxy phenol resin, and a mixture of modified polyolefin and epoxy urea resin. Thus, the present invention provides a container partially made of a plastics material, including a body having a sufficiently high degree of internal pressure resistance as required of, for example, a can for holding a carbonated drink, and which has a variety of advantages, including ease of manufacture and ease of disposal by, for example, incineration. The container has a layer formed by winding spirally a uniaxially stretched film of a crystalline polymer. This film has a very high strength and a small degree of elongation in the stretched direction. Thus, the body has a spiral layer formed by a uniaxially stretched film of a crystalline polymer, e.g. a high molecular weight polymer. The term crystalline polymer refers to, for example, polypropylene, high density polyethylene or nylon. Polypropylene is particularly preferred from the standpoint of hygiene and strength to make a vessel for holding a drink or food. A uniaxially stretched film is formed from a crystalline polymer and wound. The thickness of the film depends on the kind and quality of the polymer used, the construction of the body to be made and the internal pressure resistance required. It is, therefore, advisable to make a sufficiently large number of samples to find a thickness which gives satisfactory internal pressure resistance. Although the film can be applied to any portion of the body, it is generally desired to dispose it in an intermediate layer where it can be protected against any influence by anything in the exterior of the body. The film is wound in the form of a tape of which the length corresponds to the direction of its stretching. The film may be applied alone, or with a film of another material laminated therewith. The film does not necessarily need to cover the whole cylindrical surface of the body, and each turn thereof may be spaced apart from the others. The uniaxially stretched film of a crystalline high polymer, or a laminated film including the uniaxially stretched film of a crystlaline high polymer, is used to form a tubular body in the manner described in EP A 0113160. Thus, the present invention provides a tubular body for a can, which tubular body is formed by i folding one side edge of a film outwardly and back upon itself and bonding said folded one side edge to the film in a manner such that air bubbles are not entrapped therebetween and by ii spirally winding the film so that the other side edge of the same laminated film overlaps with said folded one side edge and bonding said other side edge to said folded one side edge in a manner such that air bubbles are not entrapped therebetween, said film being a uniaxially stretched film of a crystalline high polymer or a laminated film including a uniaxially stretched film of a crystalline high polymer. The uniaxially stretched layer of a crystalline high polymer is also used as an additional layer exterior of the tubular body formed in the manner described in EP A 0113160. Thus, the present invention provides a tubular body for a can, which tubular body is formed by i folding one side edge of a laminated film outwardly and back upon itself and bonding said folded one side edge to the laminated film in a manner such that air bubbles are not entrapped therebetween, and by ii overlapping the other side edge of the same laminated film with said folded one side edge and bonding said other side edge to said folded one edge in a manner such that air bubbles are not entrapped therebetween, the tubular body further may comprise an additional film of paper or a plastics material over the outer surface of the tubular body, except for the projecting seam formed by the bonding of said folded one side edge to the laminated film and the bonding of said other side edge to said folded one side edge, the thickness of said additional film being approximately equal to the height of said projecting seam and at least one further layer of paper or a plastics material over the outer surface of said additional film and over the outer surface of said projecting seam, said at least one further layer including a uniaxially stretched layer of a crystalline high polymer. For a better understanding of the invention, reference will be made, by way of example, to the drawings in which Referring to Figures 1 and 2, the cylindrical body 1 comprises a layer 2 for protecting the contents of the can, and a supporting layer 3. The protecting layer 2 comprises an unstretched polypropylene layer A having a thickness of 70 µm, a carboxylic acid graft polypropylene adhesive layer B having a thickness of 7 µm, an aluminium foil C having a thickness of 9 µm, a urethane adhesive layer D having a weight of 4.5 g m², and a uniaxially stretched polypropylene layer E having a thickness of 25 µm, disposed one radially outside another in the order A to E, as shown in Figure 2. The protecting layer 2 has one edge portion 4 folded back outwardly and another turn of the layer 2 has an adjacent edge portion 5 laid on, and bonded to, the edge portion 4. The supporting layer 3 comprises a urethane adhesive layer F having a weight of 4.5 g m², an unstretched polypropylene sheet 6 having a thickness of 200 µm and disposed between the folded and radially outwardly projecting edges 4 and 5 of the protecting layer 2, a plastics layer 7 of a mixture of polypropylene and calcium carbonate in a ratio of 1 1 and having a thickness of about 600 µm, and a coating layer 8 of a polypropylene block copolymer having a thickness of 10 to 20 µm, which are disposed one radially outside another in the order F, 6, 7 and 8. The use of a uniaxially stretched film is not limited to the layer E, but it is also used for the sheet 6 or part thereof. An apparatus which can be used to make the cylindrical body 1 is shown by way of example in Figure 3. The unstretched polypropylene film A, the aluminium foil C and uniaxially stretched polypropylene film E are bonded to one another by a customary method to form a laminated film 2. The film 2 is in the form of a roll 10 in which the layer A is the outermost layer. The laminated film 2 unwound from the roll 10 is folded back at one edge 4 by a folding device 11 and conveyed below a mandrel 12 to a pair of contact bonding rolls 13. The sheet 6 is unwound from a roll 14 and an adhesive is applied to one surface of the sheet 6 by an applicator 15. The sheet 6 is conveyed through a hot air drier 16 and bonded to the film 2 by the contact bonding rolls 13 to form a laminated sheet 17. The laminated sheet 17 is wound about the mandrel 12 and the overlapping edges 4 and 5 thereof are bonded to each other by an air heater 18. A molten plastics material is supplied by a Ti die 19 to form the plastics layer 7 on the laminated sheet 17. The surface of the plastics layer 7 is smoothed by a smoothing belt 20, and a molten plastics material is applied by a doctor knife 21 to form a smooth coating layer 8 on the surface of the plastics layer 7, whereby a tubular product is obtained. It is then cut by a cutter 22 into a plurality of cylindrical bodies having a specific length. Figure 4 is a perspective view showing by way of example a can having a body 43 formed by one of the cylindrical bodies 1 prepared as described above. The can has a lid 44 which may, for example, be a metal lid of the type used for a pressure resistant vessel, and which can be provided with a device for easy opening of the lid, if required. The can body of this invention is not limited to the embodiment described above. The can including the body of this invention is useful for a variety of purposes without any particular limitation. It is, for example, suitable for holding a carbonated drink such as cola, cider or beer. The uniaxially stretched film of a crystalline high polymer in the can body of this invention serves mainly to prevent it from expanding radially outwardly, and thereby improves the internal pressure resistance of the can. Thus, the can body of this invention is highly resistant to internal pressure. According to this invention, it is easy to obtain a can body which can withstand an internal pressure of, say, 8 kg cm². A plurality of cans each including the body shown in Figure 2 were compared in their internal pressure resistance with a plurality of cans of the same construction except that the uniaxially stretched film was replaced by an unstretched film. The results are shown in the following Table 1. A pressure resistant metal cover coated with modified polypropylene was used for closing each can. It was tightened by a can seamer and welded to the body by the use of high frequency magnetic flux. This invention makes it possible to obtain composite plastics cans useful for many applications, including the holding of pressurized substances. The plastics cans, when empty, are easy to bring home and to dispose of by incineration or otherwise. The cans can be fabricated in a factory where they are actually used for packing purposes, thereby contributing to a reduction in the cost of transportation. In the apparatus described above with reference to Figure 3, there is used a sheet 6 which is unwound from a roll 14. In an alternative embodiment as shown in Figures 5 to 7, a melt extruded plastics layer such as melt extruded polypropylene layer 23 is used in place of the sheet 6. In this case, as shown in Figure 5, the structure of the resulting tube 1 is illustrated in Figure 2, except that melt extruded plastics layer such as a melt extruded polypropylene layer 23 is present in place of the sheet 6. As a result, the urethane type adhesive layer F may be omitted. The crevice is not present and the small ridges at the opposite lateral edges of the raised strips are also absent. A preferred apparatus for the production of this tubular body is basically the same as an apparatus which is schematically illustrated in Figure 3, except that the parts pertaining to the sheet 6 i.e. roll 14, sizing device 15 and hot air drier 16 are no longer used. In their place, a device illustrated in Figures 6 and 7 is used. In the apparatus of Figure 6, a T die 40 is disposed adjacent to the press rolls 13 and a cooling roll 41 is disposed in a position opposed to one of the press roll 13 such that the space therebetween is three times the thickness of the laminated film. The laminated film 2, having one lateral edge thereof folded back by the edge folding device, is brought in from the righthand side of Figure 6. The folded part is heated by a cartridge air heater 18a and then pressed down into fast union by the press rolls 13. Through the T die 40 the molten plastic 6 is extruded in a prescribed width and applied onto the laminated film 2 as illustrated in Figure 7. The applied molten plastic is cooled by the cooling roll 41 rolled to an even thickness, and forwarded to the mandrel 12. Thereafter, the laminated film and the applied plastic are treated as illustrated in Figure 3 to complete a tubular body for the can. Thus, the invention provides a can including a tubular body having as a protective layer for the contents thereof a tubular body formed of a laminated film, with one lateral edge of the laminated film folded back outwardly and welded to the outer side of the laminated film and the other lateral edge of the laminated film superimposed on and welded to the open surface of the aforementioned folded portion, which can is characterized by having melt extruded plastics layer filling the gap between the raised strips formed by the superimposition of the two lateral edges. For the convenience of adhesion, the melt extruded plastics material is preferably of the same kind as the outermost layer of the laminated film. This plastics material may incorporate an inorganic substance such as calcium carbonate. The incorporation of this inorganic substance enhances rigidity, lowers the calorific requirement for combustion, ensures ease of disposal by incineration, decreases the unit price per weight, and reduces the cost. In addition, the incorporation of the above inorganic substances lowers the heat conductivity in comparison to those made of a plastics material only without any inorganic substance . Therefore when a food or the like is put in the can, and the can is then retorted for sterilization, the can made of the melt extruded plastics material containing the inorganic substance has an advantage compared to that without inorganic substance. Generally, the amount of the plastics material so extruded must be enough to fill out the gap between the raised strips. To permit manufacture of this tubular body, the apparatus described in EP A 0113160 has only to be supplemented with a die for extruding the molten plastics material and a mechanism for applying the molten plastics material onto the laminated film and for immediately cooling the applied molten plastic material. The die is disposed advantageously at a position on the downstream side of the edge folding device and preceding the point at which the film is wound on the mandrel. By allowing the molten plastics material to be applied on the film at this particular position, the application at the prescribed position can be obtained with ease and, at the same time, the subsequent cooling of the applied molten plastics material and the uniformization of the thickness of the applied layer of plastics material, can be effected easily. As the cooling mechanism, a cooled roll may be used, for example. This cooling should be carried out immediately after the application of the molten plastics material so that the laminated film should be deformed by the heat of the molten plastic material. That part of the laminated film folded back along one lateral edge should be welded in advance. In use of the apparatus of EP A 01 13160, it takes a long time for the sheet to bond to the laminated film. However, according to this aspect of the present invention, complete bonding is usually achieved upon completion of the cooling. Therefore, a tubular body with high qualities can be produced without difficulty. A preferred body of the invention will now be described with reference to Figure 2. Referring to Figure 2, this preferred body is made up of, from inside, a 70 µ thick polypropylene layer A, a 7 µ thick carboxylic acid grafted polypropylene layer B, a 9 µ thick aluminium foil C, a urethane based adhesive layer D 4.5 g m² , a 25 µ thick uniaxially stretched polypropylene layer E, a urethane based adhesive layer F 4.5 g m² , a 200 µ thick polypropylene layer 6, a 600 µ thick layer 7 of a 1 1 mixture of polypropylene and calcium carbonate, and a 10 to 20 µ thick polypropylene block copolymer layer 8. A can consisting of this body and a metal lid for a metal can is referred to herein as can X . For comparison, there was made a similar can in which the 25 µ thick uniaxially stretched polypropylene layer E is replaced by a 25 µ thick polypropylene layer. This can is referred to herein as can Y . The metal lids for cans X and Y were made as follows. First, 100 g of carboxyic acid grafted polypropylene of 6 µ average granule size is suspended in 1 litre of a 1 1 mixed solvent of Solvesso 1 50 and cyclohexanone. This suspension was coated onto a 0.32 mm aluminium plate as a layer 3 to 5 µ in thickness as dry matter to form a plate as shown in Figure 8. This plate was dried and fixed by baking for 5 minutes at 200 C, then stamped out along the dotted line, and a pressure resistant lid as shown in Figures 9 and 10 was made. Then, this metal lid was combined respectively with each tubular body for cans X and Y , using a seamer for a metal can. The metal lids were heated by a high frequency coil, and then cooled. The metal lid and the tubular body member were sealed tightly by this means. Table 2 below shows the inner pressure resistance of the cans X and Y , each of which has a diameter of 52.3 mm. The inner pressure resistance was measured by connecting the can to a pump and by measuring the pressure which the can is able to withstand. The figure of the inner pressure resistance is dominated all by the destruction of the tubular body can X and can Y . Another preferred tubular body of the invention will now be described with reference to Figure 11. Referring to Figure 11, this preferred tubular body is made up of, from inside, a 60 µ thick low density polyethylene layer A, a urethane based adhesive layer B 4.5 g m² , a 9 µ thick aluminium foil C, a 25 µ thick low density polyethylene layer D, a vinyl acetate based adhesive layer 29, a 200 µ thick paper sheet 28, a vinyl acetate based adhesive layer 35, a 25 µ thick uniaxially stretched spirally wound polypropylene layer 37, a vinyl acetate based adhesive layer 36, a 300 µ thick paper sheet 31, a polyethylene MI 50 to 100 adhesive layer 32, a 300 µ thick paper sheet 33, and a 10 to 20 µ thick polyethylene MI 50 to 100 layer 34. A can consisting of this tubular body member and a metal lid for a metal can is referred to herein as can Q . For comparison, there was made a tubular body as shown in Figure 12, this tubular body being made up of, from inside, a 60 µ thick low density polyethylene layer A, a urethane based adhesive layer B 4.5 g m² , a 9 µ aluminium foil C, a 25 µ thick low density polyethylene layer D, a vinyl acetate based adhesive layer 29, a 200 µ thick paper sheet 28, a polyethylene MI 50 to 100 adhesive layer 30, a 300 µ thick paper sheet 31, a polyethylene MI 50 to 100 adhesive layer 32, a 300 µ thick paper sheet 33, and a 10 to 20 µ thick polyethylene MI 50 to 100 layer 34. A can consisting of this tubular body and of a metal lid for a metal can is referred to herein as can P . The metal lids used for cans Q and P were made as follows. Firstly, 100 g of carboxylic acid grafted polyethylene of 6 µ average granule size was suspended in 1 litre of a 1 1 mixture of Solvesso 150 and cyclohexanone solution 1 . In addition, 100 g of epoxyphenol was dissolved in 100 ml of a 6 3 1 mixture of diacetone alcohol, Solvesso 100 and xylol solution II . Then, 9 volumes of solution I and 1 volume of solution II were mixed uniformly. This mixed solution was coated onto 0.32 mm aluminium plate as a layer 3 to 5 µ in thickness as dry matter to form a plate as shown in Figure 8. This plate was dried and fixed by baking for 5 minutes at 210 C, then stamped out along the dotted line, and a pressure resistant lid as shown in Figures 9 and 10 was made. Then, this metal lid was combined respectively with each tubular body for cans Q and P , using a seamer for a metal can. The metal lids were heated by a high frequency coil, and then cooled. The metal lid and tubular body were sealed tightly by this means. Table 3 below shows the inner pressure resistance of the cans Q and P , each of which had a diameter of 52.3 mm. The inner pressure resistance was measured as described above. The figure of the inner pressure resistance is dominated all by the destruction of the tubular body can Q and can P .