# Tetrahydronaphthalenols for the treatment of hypertension.

## Abstract
New compounds, useful for the treatment of hyperten sion, have the formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A compound having the formulaEMI35.1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein R1 is hydrogen or methyl R2 is hydrogen, alkyl, alkanoyl, or arylcarbonyl R3 and R4 are each aryl R3 and R4 are each cycloalkyl R3 is hydrogen or alkyl and R4 is cycloalkyl or 9H fluoren 9 yl or R3 is hydrogen or alkyl and R4 is heteroaryl R5 and R6 are the same or different and each is hydrogen, hydroxy, alkoxy or alkanoyl and n is 1, 2, 3 or 4 wherein the terms alkyl and alkoxy refer to groups having 1 to 7 carbon atoms the term cycloalkyl refers to groups having 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7 carbon atoms the term alkanoyl refers to groups having 2 to 7 carbon atoms the term aryl refers to phenyl and phenyl substituted with 1, 2 or 3 alkyl, alkoxy, halogen, alkylamino, dialkylamino, alkanoylamino or arylcarbonylamino groups and the term heteroaryl refers to 2 , 3 or 4 pyridinyl, 2 or 3 furanyl, 2 or 3 thienyl, 1 , 2 or 3 indolyl, 2 benzoxazolyl, 2 benzothiazolyl, 1 or 2 benzimidazolyl, 2 or 3 benzothienyl and 2or 3 benzofuranyl, and to any of the above groups substituted with 1, 2 or 3 alkyl, alkoxy, halogen, alkylamino, dialkylamino, alkanoylamino, or arylcarbonylamino groups. 2. A compound in accordance with Claim 1 having the formulaEMI36.1 or a pharmaceutically accePtable salt thereof. 3. A compound in accordance with Claim I having the formulaEMI36.2 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. 4. A compound in accordance with Claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein R2 is hydrogen. 5. A compound in accordance with Claim 1, 2, 3 or 4 wherein R3 and R4 are each aryl. 6. A compound in accordance with Claim 1, 2, 3 or 4 wherein R3 and R4 are each phenyl. 7. A compound in accordance with Claim 1, 2t 3 or 4 wherein R3 and R4 are each cycloalkyl. 8. A compound in accordance with Claim 1, 2, 3 or 4 wherein R3 and R4 are each cyclohexyl. 9. A compound in accordance with Claim 1, 2, 3 or 4 wherein R3 is hydrogen or alkyl, andR4 is cycloalkyl or 9H fluoren 9 yl. 10. A compound in accordance with Claim 1, 2, 3 or 4 wherein R3 is hydrogen or alkyl, andR4 is heteroaryl. 11. The compound in accordance with claim 1, trans 3 3,3 dicyclohexylpropyl amino 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 5,8 dimethoxy 2 naphthalenol, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. 12. The compound in accordance with claim 1, trans 3 t 3,3 diphenylpropyl amino 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 6,7 dimethoxy 2 naphthalenol, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. 13. A process for preparing a compound having the formulaEMI37.1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein R1 is hydrogen or methyl R2 is hydrogen, alkyl, alkanoyl, or arylcarbonyl R3 and R4 are each aryl R3 and R4 are each cycloalkyl R3 is hydrogen or alkyl and R4 is cycloalkyl or 9H fluoren 9 yl or R3 is hydrogen or alkyl and R4 is heteroaryl .R5 and R6 are the same or different and each is hydrogen, hydroxy, alkoxy or alkanoyl and n is 1, 2, 3 or 4 wherein the terms alkyl and alkoxy refer to groups having 1 to 7 carbon atoms the term cycloalkylu refers to groups having 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7 carbon atoms the term alkanoyl refers to groups having 2 to 7 carbon atoms the term aryl refers to phenyl and phenyl substituted with 1, 2 or 3 alkyl, alkoxy, halogen, alkylamino, dialkylamino, alkanoylamino or arylcarbonylamino groups and the term heteroaryl refers to 2 , 3 or 4 pyridinyl, 2 or 3 furanyl, 2 or 3 thienyl, 1 , 2 or 3 indolyl, 2 benzoxazolyl, 2 benzothiazolyl, 1 or 2 benzimidazolyl, 2 or 3 benzothienyl and 2or 3 benzofuranyl, and to any of the above groups substituted with 1, 2 or 3 alkyl, alkoxy, halogen, alkylamino, dialkylamino, alkanoylamino, or arylcarbonylamino groups which comprises either a reacting a 1,2,3, 4 tetrahydro 6, 7 epoxynaphthalene of the formulaEMI38.1 with an amine of the formulaEMI38.2 to yield a compound of the formulaEMI38.3 optionally, converting to compounds wherein R2 is alkyl, alkanoyl or arylcarbonyl by known methods or b reacting the cis isomer of a compound of the formulaEMI39.1 with a compound of the formula EMI39.2

## Description
TETRAHYDRONAPHTHALENOLS FOR THE TREATMENT OF HYPERTENSION This invention relates to new compounds having the formulaEMI1.1 and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, which are useful for the treatment of hypertension. In formula I, and throughout the specification, the symbols are as defined below. R1 is hydrogen or methyl R2 is hydrogen, alkyl, alkanoyl, or arylcarbonyl R3 and R4 are each aryl R3 and R4 are each cycloalkyl R3 is hydrogen or alkyl and R4 is cycloalkyl or 9H fluoren 9 yl or R3 is hydrogen or alkyl and R4 is heteroaryl R5 and R6 are the same or different and each is hydrogen, hydroxy, alkoxy or alkanoyl and n is 1, 2, 3 or 4. The terms alkyl and alkoxy , as used throughout the specification, refer to groups having 1 to 7 carbon atoms. The term cycloalkyl , as used throughout the specification, refers to cycloalkyl groups having 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7 carbon atoms. The term alkanoyl , as used throughout the specification, refers to alkanoyl groups having 2 to 7 carbon atoms. The term aryl 1 as used throughout the specification, refers to phenyl and phenyl substituted with 1, 2, or 3 alkyl, alkoxy, halogen, alkylamino, dialkylamino, alkanoylamino or arylcarbonylamino groups. The term heteroaryl , as used throughout the specification, refers to 2 , 3 or 4 pyridinyl, 2 or 3 furanyl, 2 or 3 thienyl, 1 , 2 or 3indolyl, 2 benzoxazolyl, 2 benzothiazolyl, 1 or 2 benzimidazolyl, 2 or 3 benzothienyl and 2 or 3 benzofuranyl, and to any of the above groups substituted with 1, 2 or 3 alkyl, alkoxy, halogen, alkylamino, dialkylamino, alkanoylamino, or arylcarbonylamino groups. United States Patent 3,930,022, issuedDecember 30, 1975, discloses as beta adrenergic receptor blocking agents 5,6,7,8 tetrahydro naphthalenes having the formulaEMI2.1 and pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts thereof, wherein Ra is alkyl or arylalkyl, and and Rb and Rc each be hydrogen, hydroxyl, alkoxy or arylalkoxy. United States Patents 4,076,843, issuedFebruary 8, 1978, and 4,267,373, issued May 12, 1981, disclose as hypotensive agents 5,6,7,8 tetrahydronaphthalenes having the formula EMI3.1 and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, wherein Rd is hydrogen or alkyl, Re is alkyl, andRf and Rg can each be hydrogen, hydroxyl, alkoxy, or arylalkoxy, but at least one of Rf and Rg must be other than hydroxyl. United States Patent 4,081,444, issuedMarch 28, 1978, discloses as hypotensive agents 5,6,7,8 tetrahydronaphthalenes having the formulaEMI3.2 and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, wherein Rh is hydrogen,EMI3.3 wherein X is alkyl of 1 to 12 carbon atoms or aryl orEMI3.4 wherein Y is lower alkyl or aryl , R. is hydrogen, halogen, lower alkyl, alkoxy, orEMI3.5 R. is hydrogen, halogen, lower alkyl, alkoxy, alkylthio, trifluoromethyl, or nitro, and n is 1, 2 or 3. The compounds of this invention wherein R2 is hydrogen can be prepared by reacting a 1,2,3, 4 tetrahydro 6, 7 epoxynaphthalene having the formulaEMI4.1 with an amine having the formulaEMI4.2 The reaction proceeds most readily in a high boiling alcoholic solvent preferably at l50 1600C or in methylene chloride with trialkyl aluminum as a catalyst preferably at room temperature , and yields a compound having the formulaEMI4.3 The compounds of formula I wherein h is alkanoyl or arylcarbonyl can be obtained by acylating a strong acid salt e.g., the hydrochloride, hydrobromide or hydrogen sulfate salt of the corresponding compound of formula IV Standard acylation techniques can be used, but preferably an acyl halide will be used as the acylating agent. Both the cis and the trans isomers of the compounds of formula I are specifically contemplated for use in this invention. The abovedescribed methodology yields the trans compoundsThe desired cis products can be prepared from the corresponding cis isomer of a compound having the formulaEMI5.1 Methodology for preparing cis compounds of formulaV is known see, for example, United States patent 4,081,444, issued March 28, 1978. As described therein, the trans isomer of a compound of formulaV is reacted with an acyl chloride e.g., benzoyl chloride in aqueous base to give the corresponding acylamido alcohol. The acylamido alcohol is converted to the cis isomer of a compound of formula V by sequential reaction with thionyl chloride and a mineral acid. The cis isomers of the products of formula I can be prepared by reductively alkylating a cis isomer of a compound of formula V with the appropriate aldehyde or ketone having the formulaEMI5.2 using a reducing agent such as sodium cyanoborohydride or using catalytic hydrogenation. The compounds of formula I form acid addition salts with inorganic and organic acids.These acid addition salts frequently provide useful means for isolating the products from reaction mixtures by forming the salt in a medium in which it is insoluble. The free base may then be obtained by neutralization, e.g., with a base such as sodium hydroxide. Then any other salt may again be formed from the free base and the appropriate inorganic or organic acid.Illustrative are the hydrohalides, especially the hydrochloride and hydrobromide which are preferred, sulfate, nitrate, phosphate, borate, acetate, tartrate, maleate, citrate, succinate, benzoate, ascorbate, salicylate, methanesulfonate, benzenesulfonate, toluenesulfonate and the like. The compounds of formula I, and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, are used for lowering the blood pressure of a hypertensive host Daily doses of from about 10 milligrams to about 1.0 gram can be administered in single or divided doses. The particular daily dosage used will very with the potency of the particular compound used and with the severity of a particular patients hypertensive condition. The active compounds of the present invention can be administered orally, for example, with an inert diluent or with an assimilable edible carrier, or they can be enclosed in hard or soft gelatin capsules, or they can be compressed into tablets, or they can be incorporated directly with the food of the diet. For oral therapeutic administration, the active compounds of this invention can be incorporated with excipients and used in the form of tablets, troches, capsules, elixirs, suspensions, syrups, wafers, chewing gum, and the like. Such compositions and preparations should contain at least 0.1 of active compound. The percentage in the compositions and preparations can, of course, be varied and can conveniently be between about 5 to about 75 or more of the weight of the unit. The amount of active compound in such therapeutically useful compositions or preparations is such that a suitable dosage will be obtained.Preferred compositions or preparations according to the present invention are prepared so that an oral dosage unit form contains between about 5 and 250 milligrams of active compound. Without limiting the scope of this invention to any particular mechanism of action, it is believed that the compounds of formula I, and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, act as vasodilators. In addition to their utility as hypotensive agents, they can also be used to treat migraine headaches, angina, and glaucoma. Methodology for preparing the 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 6,7 epoxynaphthalene starting compounds of formula II is described in the literature see, for example, United States Patents 3,930,022, 4,076,843, 4,081,444, and 4,267,373. Preferred compounds of this invention are those compounds and salts thereof having the formulasEMI7.1 The following examples are specific embodiments of this invention. Example 1 trans 1,2,3,4 Tetrahydro 3 2 1R indol 3 yl ethyl amino 5, 8 dimethoxy 2 naphthalenol A dark brown solution of 14.4 g 70.0 mmol of 6 r 7 epoxy 5,6 7 7,8 tetrahydro 1,4 dimethoxy naphthalene, 11.6 g 72.3 mmol of tryptamine, 5.4 ml 1 eq. of isopropanol, and 105 ml of xylene was refluxed overnight under argon. The solvent was removed in vacuo and the foamy brown residue was triturated with ether to give 20 g of an off white solid. Recrystallization from chloroform gave 12 g of white crystals. Recrystallization of this material from ethyl acetate failed to give a correct elemental analysis of crystalline needles.A second recrystallization from ethyl acetate gave 918 g of white crystals which did not analyze properly after heating overnight in a vacuum oven at 60 C, 1.5 mm of Hg. 100MHz NMR deuterated methanol showed ethyl acetate present.Recrystallization from methanol gave the analytical sample 9.1 g as granular white crystals, melting point l57 l600C. Analysis Calc d. for C22H26N203 C, 72.11 H, 7.15 N, 7.64Found C, 72.14 H, 7.17 N, 7.69 Example 2 trans l, 2,3, Tetrahydro 3 3,3 diphenylpropyl amino 1 2 naphthalenol, hydrochloride salt 1 1 To a brown solution of 3,3 diphenylpropylamine 2.20 g, 10 mmol in dry dichloromethane 15 ml under argon was added dropwise triethylaluminum, 25.3 solution in benzene 1.90 M, 5.3 ml, 10 mmol effervescence was observed. The solution was allowed to stir for one hour. 1,2 Epoxy 1,2,3,4 tetrahydronaphthalene 1.46 g 10 mmol was then added and the resulting solution was allowed to stir overnight.The reaction mixture was diluted with 25 ml chloroform and 6 N sodium hydroxide 10 ml was added dropwise with vigorous stirring. Effervescence was observed and the solvent refluxed briefly. The resulting two phase solution was stirred for one hour. The layers were separated and the aqueous phase was extracted again with chloroform. The combined organic layers were washed with brine, dried over anhydrous potassium carbonate, and rotary evaporated to an off white solid. Flash chromatography 3 methanol in dichloromethane followed by treatment with excess ethanolic hydrogen chloride gave white crystals, 2.0 g.This material was combined with 1.5 g from another run and recrystallized from isopropanol containing a trace of methanol. An NMR of the resulting white crystals 2.3 g, melting point 239 2410C showed a doublet at 1.16 ppm corresponding to 0.1 mole of isopropanol. Heating at 80 900C under vacuum for 4 hours did not remove the isopropanol, so this 2.3 g was combined with 0.75 g of other material obtained by recrystallizing the concentrated mother liquors from acetonitrile and recrystallized from acetonitrile containing a trace of methanol. Analytically pure white crystals 2.7 g, melting point 239 2410C were obtained.Analysis Calc d. for C25H27NO HC1 C, 76.22 H, 7.16 N, 3.56 C1, 9.00Found C, 76.19 H, 7.16 N, 3.59 C1, 8.95 Example 3 trans 3 3,3 Diphenylpropyl amino 1,2,3,4 tetra hydro 5 , 8 dimethoxy 2 naphthalenol, hydrochloride salt 1 1 A solution of 6,7 epoxy 5,6,7,8 tetrahydro 1,4 dimethoxynaphthalene 2.06 g 10 mmol , 3,3 diphenylpropylamine 2.64 g 12.5 mmol and isopropanol 2.30 ml 30 mmol, added in three portions at 15 hour intervals in xylene 15 ml was heated under reflux for 60 hours TLC still showed the starting material . The reaction was cooled to room temperature and the solvent was evaporated under reduced pressure to give a brown oily residue.This was dissolved in anhydrous ether 40 ml and treated with ethanolic hydrogen chloride 5 ml of 5.5 N solution . A colorless thick precipitate of the product as well as the starting amine was formed. It was filtered off and washed with ether to give 4.01 g of white solid. This was dissolved in 150 ml of hot absolute ethanol and the resulting solution was allowed to cool gradually The hydrochloride of the product crystallized out leaving the 3,3 diphenylpropyl amine hydrochloride in solution.The colorless crystals were filtered off, washed with absolute ethanol and ether to give the desired product 1.8 g . Another crystallization from hot ethanol 90 ml gave analytically pure sample, melting point 249 250 C dex Analysis Calctd. for C27H31N03 HC1 C, 71.43 H, 7.10 N, 3.R9 Found C, 71.24 H, 7.33 N, 3.10 Example 4 trans l,2,3,4 Tetrahydro 3 2 lH indol 3 yl ethyl3amino 2 naphthalenol A brown solution of 1.75 g 12.0 mmol of 2,3 epoxy 1,2,3,4 tetrahydronaphthalene, 2.00 g 12.5 mmol of tryptamine and 0.92 ml 12 mmol of isopropanol, in 25 ml of xylene was refluxed under argon for 25 hours. The solution was allowed to cool to room temperature. After evaporation in vacuo of a small amount 5 ml of solvent, crystals formed. Roughly 5 ml more solvent was evaporated, and the crystals were filtered off and washed with ether a few times. Yield 1.99 g of off white crystals. TLC, silica gel, Rf major spot 0.21 in dichloromethane methanol acetic acid 18 1 1 . A small contaminant, probably tryptamine was visible just above the baseline. An attempt to obtain a second crop gave 100 mg of an off white solid that showed a slightly larger amount of the contaminant by TLC. The two crops were combined and recrystallized from acetonitrile to give 1.53 g of yellowish needles, melting point 146 1510C. A second recrystallization, from isopropyl ether gave 894 mg first crop, 277 mg second crop, both colorless crystals. First crop melting point 145 148 C. Analysis Calc d. for C20H22N2O C, 78.40 H, 7.24 N, 9.14 Found C, 78.34 H, 7.34 N, 9.07 first crop Example 5 trans 3 2,2 Diphenylethyl amino 1,2,3,4 tetra hydro 5, 8 dimethoxy 2 naphthalenol, hydrochloride salt irk The reaction mixture containing 6,7 epoxy5,6,7,8 tetrahydro 1,4 dimethyoxynaphthalene 2.06 g 10 mmol , 2,2 diphenylethylamine 2.03 g 10 mmol 3 pentanol 1.76 g 20 mmol and xylene 10 ml was heated under reflux oil bath 1451500C for 40 hours. It was cooled to room temperature, and the solvent was evaporated in vacuo to give a brown oily residue. This was taken up in ether methanol 30 ml, 4 1 and treated with ethanolic hydrogen chloride 5 ml of 5.5 N solution .The resulting white solid 2.6 g was filtered off and recrystallized from acetonitrile 40 ml to give colorless crystals 2.1 g In spite of giving a satisfactory elemental analysis, this material did not have a sharp melting point.It was, therefore, recrystallized from acetonitrileisopropanol 4 1 to give sharply melting product, melting point 222.5 224 C. Analysis Calc d. for C28H NO3HC1 C, C, 70.98 H, 6.87 N, 3.18Found C, 71.04 H, 6.94 N, 3.16 Example 6 trans 3 2 Benzothiazolylmethyl amino 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 5,8 dimethoxy 2 naphthalenol, hydrochloride salt 1 1 A solution of 2 aminomethyl benzothiazole 1.7 g 10 mmol , 6,7 epoxy 5,6,7,8 tetrahydro I,4 dimethyoxy naphthalene 2.06 g 10 mmol and 3 pentanol 2.2 ml 20 mmol in xylene 10 ml was heated under reflux oil bath 1450C for 40 hours. The reaction had turned dark red by this time. It was allowed to cool to room temperature and the solvent was evaporated. The resulting dark thick oil was diluted with isopropanol ether 25 ml 1 1 by volume and treated with 5.5 N ethanolic hydrogen chloride 5.0 ml . A yellow precipitate was formed.The reaction was allowed to stand at room temperature for one hour and the precipitate was filtered off. The solid 2.1 g obtained was recrystallized four times from acetonitrile methanol 1 g of solid was heated with 15 ml of acetonitrile, and methanol was added dropwise until a clear solution was obtained which was allowed to cool to give a tan solid 620 mg .Another recrystallization from isopropanol provided analytically pure product 435 mg which decomposed at 208 2120C. This compound turned out to be a partial hydrate containing 0.66 mmol of water.Analysis Calc d. for C20H22N2SHCl0.66H2O C, 57.35 H, 5.85 N, 6.67 S, 7.65Found C, 57.35 H, 5.52 N, 6.27 S, 7.68 Example 7 trans 3 lH Benzimidazol 2 yl methyl amino 1,2,3, 4 tetrahydro 5, 8 dimethoxy 2 naphthalenol, hydrochloride salt 1 1 A solution of 6,7 epoxy 5 6,7,8 tetrahydro1,4 dimethoxynaphthalene 2.06 g 10 mmol , 2 aminomethyl benzimidazole 2.3 g 15 mmol, generated from its dihydrochloride and 3 pentanol 2 ml in xylene 4 ml was heated under reflux oil bath 1450C for 10 hours TLC showed no starting material . The light brown reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature whereby it solidified. The solid was triturated with acetonitrile and filtered off to give yellow crystalline product 2.1 g .The desired product was contaminated with a yellow impurity which had slightly higher Rf. Purification by recrystallization turned out to be difficult. Therefore, this material was suspended in ethanol methanol 40 ml, 1.1 and treated with 5.5 N ethanolic hydrogen chloride 5.0 ml . The suspension became a homogeneous solution momentarily and then a colorless solid precipitated out. It was allowed to stand at room temperature for one hour and the solid 1.8 g was filtered off and washed with ethanol and ether.Owing to its poor solubility in a variety of solvents, this material turned out to be impossible to purify by recrystallization. The yellow impurity, which was originally present in the product, was in fact removed during salt formation.In order to facilitate recrystallization and also increase solubility of the product the free amine had to be regenerated. The salt of the product 1.8 g was suspended in chloroform methanol water 100 ml 15 ml 50 ml and 6N sodium hydroxide was added dropwise while stirring the two phase reaction mixture vigorously.When the pH approached 12 13, most of the solid had disappeared. The organic layer was separated and the aqueous phase was saturated with sodium chloride and re extracted with 5 methanolic chloroform 2x75 ml . The combined extracts were washed with brine and dried over magnesium sulfate. Evaporation provided a colorless soild 1.01 g which was heated with acetonitrile 40 ml and methanol was added dropwise until a clear solution was obtained. This solution was allowed to cool down to room temperature whereby a colorless product crystallized out. It was filtered off and thoroughly washed with acetonitrile and chloroform to give the desired product as hard solid 502 mg , melting point 185.5 188.5 C. Analysis Calc d. for C20H23N3O3 C, 67.97 H, 6.56 N, 11.89Found C, 67.83 H, 6.74 N, 11.84 Example 8 trans 3 2 Benzothiazolylmethyl amino 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 2 naphthalenol A solution of 2 aminomethyl benzothiazole 325 mg 1.83 mmol in dichloromethane 2 ml was treated with triethyl aluminum 0.96 ml of 1.9 M solution 1.83 mmol dropwise under an argon atmosphere. Effervescence was noted and the reaction turned deep purple. After stirring at room temperature for 30 minutes, a solution of 1,2 epoxy 1,2,3,4 tetrahydronaphthalene 262 mg 1.8 mmol in dichloromethane 1 ml was added. The reaction was allowed to stir at room temperature over the weekend. It was diluted with 10 ml of dichloromethane and then treated with 6 N sodium hydroxide 3 ml . A slightly exothermic reaction took place. The resulting two phase reaction mixture was stirred vigorously at room temperature for one hour. The reaction at this stage had turned deep yellow. The organic layer was separated and the aqueous phase was reextracted with dichloromethane twice. The combined extracts were washed with brine, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate and evaporated to give a yellow solid. It was diluted with acetonitrile and filtered off to give light yellow crystalline material 201 mg .Recrystallization from acetonitrile chloroform chloroform was added dropwise to the suspension of compound in hot acetonitrile, and the resulting solution was allowed to cool gradually provided the analytically pure product 165 mg as shiny crystals with yellow tinge, melting point 175.5 177.0aC, Analysis Calc d. for C18Ri8N2OS C, 69.95 H, 5.85 N, 9.02 S, 10.33Found C, 69.48 H, 5.87 N, 8.97 S, 10.08 Example 9 trans 3 Benzoxazol 2 yl methylaminoJ 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 5 , 8 dimethoxy 2 naphthalenol Following the procedure of Example 8, but utilizing 2 aminomethyl benzoxazole 1.12 g 7.54 mmol in 5 ml of dichloromethane, triethyl aluminum 3.95 ml of a 1.9 M solution 7.5 mmol , and 6,7 epoxy 5,6,7, 8 tetrahydro 1, 4 dimethoxy naphthalene 1.0 g 4.9 mmol in 4 ml of dichloromethane, yielded an oily residue. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel 5 6 methanol in chloroform to give a colorless foam 1.03 g . This was dissolved in chloroform 5 ml and then diluted with anhydrous ether 13 ml .The resulting solution was allowed to stand at room temperature overnight to give granular off white crystals 750 mg . Another recrystallization from chloroform ether gave analytically pure product, melting point 125 126 C. Analysis Calc d. for C20H22N204 C, 67.78 H, 6.26 N, 7.90Found C, 67.60 H, 6.39 N, 7.74 Example 10 trans 3 2 2 Benzothiazolyl ethyl amino l,2,3,4 tetrahydro 5,8 dimethoxy 2 naphthalenol, hydrochloride salt 1 1 Following the procedure of Example 8, but utilizing 2 2 aminoethyl benzothiazole 1.26 g 7.08 mmol in 6 ml of dichloromethane, triethyl aluminum 3.6 ml of 1.9 M sol 7.0 mmol and 6,7 epoxy S, 6,7, 8 tetrahydro l, 4 dimethoxy naphthalene 1.24 g 6 mmol in 5 ml of dichloromethane, yielded 1.08 g, of a light yellow solid. This material turned out to be difficult to recrystallize. Therefore, it was dissolved in chloroform 10 ml and treated with 5.5 N ethanolic hydrogen chloride 2.0 ml .The solution was allowed to stand at room temperature for 30 minutes, and the solvent was then evaporated to give a colorless solid. The splid was triturated with acetonitrile and filtered off 1.21 g . Recrystallization from isopropanolmethanol provided the analytically pure product, melting point 198.5 199.50C. Analysis Calc d. for C21E24N2O3S HC1 C, 59.92 H, 5.99 N, 6.65 S, 7.62Found C, 59.91 H, 6.01 N, 6.60 S, 7.46 Example 11 trans 3 3,3 Dicyclohexylpropyl aminoj l, 2,3,4 tetrahydro 5,8 dimethoxy 2 naphthalenol, hydrochloride salt 1 1 A solution of 3,3 dicyclohexylpropylamine 1.97 g 8.84 mmol in dry dichloromethane 10 ml was treated with triethyl aluminum 4.6 ml of 1.9 M solution under argon. After stirring at room temperature for 30 minutes, 6,7 epoxy S, 6,7, 8 tetra hydro 1,4 dimethoxynaphthalene 1.82 g 8.83 mmol was added in dichloromethane 10 ml . The reaction was allowed to stir at room temperature overnight.It was diluted with 30 ml of dichloromethane, cooled to 0 C and treated dropwise with 6N sodium hydroxide 15 ml . The resulting two phase reaction mixture was vigorously stirred for 1 hour. The organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer was extracted twice with dichloromethane. The combined extracts were washed with brine, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate and evaporated to give a colorless foam. This material was dissolved in chloroform 25 ml and treated with ethanolic hydrogen chloride 2.5 ml of 5N solution . After about 30 minutes, the solvent was evaporated to give a colorless solid.This was triturated with acetonitrile and filtered off to give colorless crystals 3.2 g . Recrystallization from isopropanol methanol provided the analytically pure product, melting point 274 2770C dec .Analysis Calc d. for C27H43NO3HCI C, 69.58 H, 9.52 N, 3.01 Found C, 69.86 H, 9.60 N, 3.04 Example 12 trans 3 3,3 Diphenylpropyl amino 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro Ei , 7 dime.Ehoxy 2 naphthalenol, hydrochloride salt A solution of 6,7 epoxy 5,6,7,8 tetrahydro 2,3 dimethoxynaphthalene 1.78 g 7.8 mmol , 3,3 diphenylpropylamine 1.88 g 8.6 mmol and 3 pentanol 1.5 ml in xylene 2.0 ml was heated under reflux for 14 hours. The dark brown reaction was allowed to cool to room temperature whereby an off white solid had separated.It was diluted with anhydrous ether and the crystals were filtered off and washed with more ether. The product obtained 1.65 g was taken up in chloroform 10 ml and treated with ethanolic hydrogen chloride 3.5 ml of 5.5N solution . The solution was allowed to stand at room temperature for 1 hour and the solvent was then evaporated to give a colorless foam. Crystallization from isopropanol provided colorless crystalline product 1.75 g .An analytically pure sample was obtained by recrystallization from isopropanol, melting point 224.5 2260C. This compound turned out to be a partial hydrate containing 0.56 mole of water.Recrystallization from absolute ethanol or acetonitrile methanol did not remove water from the crystals.Analysis Calc d. for C27H31NO3HCl0.56H2O C, 69.87 H, 7.19 N, 3.02Found C, 69.87 H, 6.98 N, 3.06 Example 13 trans 1,2,3,4 Tetrahydr o 3 IC2 1H i ethyl amino 1 6,7 dimethoxy 2 naphthalenol A solution of tryptamine 1.22 g, 7.61 mmol , recrystallized from chloroform ethyl acetate, 6, 7 epoxy S, 6,7, 8 tetrahydro 2, 3 dimethoxynaphtha lene 1.57 g, 7.61 mmol and 3 pentanol 2.5 ml in sylene 4 ml was refluxed under argon overnight. An off white precipitate formed during this time. The reaction mixture was allowed to cool to 85 900C and acetonitrile 6 ml was added. The mixture was then left to cool to room temperature. The precipitate was filtered off and washed with acetonitrile and ether to give 2.1 g of an off white solid. Recrystallization from acetonitrile gave analytically pure off white needles 1.85 g , melting point 180 182 C. Analysis Calcgd. for C22H26N203 C, 72.11 H, 7.15 N, 7.64Found C, 72.10 H, 7.19 N, 7.82 Example 14 trans 1,2,3,4 Tetrahydro 5,8 dimethoxy methoxy 1H indol 3 yl ethyl aminol 2 naphthalenol A solution of 6,7 epoxy 5,6,7,8 tetrahydro 1,4 dimethoxynaphthalene 1.06 g 5.15 mmol , 6 methoxytryptamine 980 mg 5.15 mmol , and 3 pentanol 2.5 ml in xylene 4 ml was refluxed under argon for 6 hours. The reaction was allowed to cool slightly and was diluted with acetonitrile 15 ml . Only a small amount of material crystallized, so the mixture was rotary evaporated to a brown foam. Chromatography silica gel, 2 4 methanol in dichloromethane afforded 1.2 g of an off white foam.Recrystallization from acetonitrile gave analytically pure off white, granular crystals 608 mg , melting point 125 127 C. Analysis Calc d for C23H28N2O4 C, 69.67 H, 7.12 N, 7.07 Found C, 69.49 H, 7.11 , 7.09 Example 15 trans 3 3 2 Benzothiazolyl propyl amino 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 5,8 dimethoxy 2 naphthalenol, hydrochloride salt 1 1 The reaction mixture containing 6,7 epoxy 5,6,7,8 tetrahydro 1,4 dimethoxynaphthalene 1.5 g 7.3 mmol , benzothiazole 2 propanamine 1.8 g, 9.4 mmol, crude and 3 pentanol 1.5 ml in xylene 3.0 ml was heated under reflux for 16 hours. The solvent was evaporated to give a brown semi solid. Purification by flash chromatography 2 3 methanol in dichloromethane gave a light yellow foam 1.3 g . This was dissolved in chloroform. 15 ml and treated with 5.5N ethanolic hydrogen chloride 2 ml .After stirring at room temperature for 1 hour, the sovlent was evaporated to give a light yellow solid, which was recrystallized from isopropanol to give off white crystals 1.3 g . Another recrystallization from isopropanol methanol provided the analytically pure product melting point 250 2520C, dec. as colorless fluffy material.Analysis Calc d. for C22H26N203S ECl C, 60.75 H, 6.26 N, 6.44 S, 7.37Found C, 60.44 H, 6.19 N, 6.48 S, 7.40 Example 16 trans 1,2,3,4 Tetrahydro 5,8 dimethoxy 3 2 lH indol 3 yl ethyllmethylaminol 2 naphthalenol A reaction mixture containing 6,7 epoxy 5,6,7, 8 tetrahydro 1, 4 dimethoxynaphthalene 1.2 g 5.8 mmol , N methyltryptamine 1.0 g 5.8 mmol and 3 pentanol 0.25 ml was heated at 1500C oil bath temp. for 3,hours under argon.The light brown reaction was cooled to room temperature and was purified by flash chromatography 3 4 methanol in dichloromethane . The colorless foamy residue was crystallized from isopropyl ether chloroform to give granular crystals 1.51 g . Recrystallization from isopropyl ether chloroform provided the analytically pure product, melting point 155.5 156.50C. Analysis Calc1d. for C23H28N2o3 C, 72.60 H, 7.42 N, 7.36Found C, 72.55 H, 7.43 N, 7.26 Example 17 trans 1,2,3,4 Tetrahydro 5,8 dimethoxy 3 2 5 methvl 1E indol 3 vl ethYllaminol 2 naDhthalenol A solution of 5 methyltryptamine 1.47 g, 8.4 mmol , 6,7 epoxy 5,6,7,8 tetrahydro 1,4 dimethoxynaphthalene 1.73 g, 8.4 mmol , and 3 pentanol 3 ml in xylene 5 ml under argon was refluxed overnight. The reaction mixture was allowed to cool slightly and was diluted with acetonitrile 5 10 ml . After about 10 minutes, an off white precipitate formed. The mixture was allowed to stand for ca. 2 hours and then was filtered, yielding off white crystals 2.0 g . This was recrystallized from acetonitrile to give analytically pure white crystals 1.37 g , melting point 141 1430C.Analysis Calc d. for C23H28N2O3 C, 72.60 H, 7.42 N, 7.36Found C, 72.72 H, 7.59 N, 7.41 Example 18 trans 3 4,4 Diphenylbutyl amino3 1,2,3,4 tetrahydrp 5,8 dimethoxy 2 naphthalenol, hydrochloride salt 1 1 To a solution of 4,4 diphenylbutylamine 1.1 g in dichloromethane 10 ml under argon was added dropwise with stirring triethyl aluminum 1.90M solution in benzene, 2.1 ml, 4 mmol effervescence was observed. The solution was allowed to stir for about one hour. 6,7 Epoxy . 5,6,7, 8 tetrahydro 1 , 4 dimethoxynaphthalene 825 mg, 4.0 mmol was added, and the resulting solution was allowed to stir overnight. In the morning, the reaction was cooled to OOC and treated dropwise with 10 ml of 1N sodium hydroxide with vigorous stirring. After stirring for about one half hour, the layers were separated and the aqueous layer was re extracted with dichloromethane. The combined organic phases were washed with brine, dried magnesium sulfate and rotary evaporated to an oil 2.1 g . Flash chromatgraphy 3 methanol in dichloromethane with trace triethylamine followed by treatment with excess ethanolic hydrogen chloride afforded white crystals 704 mg , melting point 259 2610C dec .Recrystallization from ethanol methanol gave the analytically pure white crystals 513 mg , melting point 261 264CC dec .Analysis Calc d. for C28H33NO3HCl C, 71.85 H, 7.11 N, 2.99Found C, 71.84 H, 7.37 N, 3.01 Example 19 trans 3 4,4 Diphenylbutylamino 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 6, 7 dimethoxy 2 naphthalenol, hydrochloride salt 1 1 A solution of 6,7 epoxy 5,6,7,8 tetrahydro 2,3, dimethoxynaphthalene 516 mg, 2.5 cool , crude 4,4 diphenylbutylamine 1.1 g, 4.9 mmol and 3 pentanol 0.5 ml under argon was refluxed in an oil bath at 145 1580C. After 3 hours, TLC showed unreacted epoxide, so more of the crude amine 0.5 g and 3 pentanol 0.5 ml were added.After 4 more hours, epoxide still remained, so xylene 2 ml was added, as well as more of the amine 0.3 g and 3 pentanol 0.3 ml . The reaction was allowed to reflux overnight. It was then diluted with toluene and rotary evaporated three times to yield an oil. Flash chromatography dichloromethane 5 , methanol in dichloromethane followed by treatment with excess ethanolic hydrogen chloride gave analytically pure white crystals 560 mg , melting point 165.5 167 C. Analysis Calc d. for C28E33N03 HCl C, 71.85 H, 7.11 N, 2.99Found C, 71.89 H, 7.44 N, 2.99 Example 20 trans 3 2,2 Diphenylethyl aminoj l,2,3,4 tetrahydro 6, 7 dimethoxy 2 naphthalenol, hydrochloride salt 1 1 A mixture of 6,7 epoxy 5,6,7,8 tetrahydro2, 3 dimethoxynaphthalene 500 mg, ,2 .42 mmol , 2,2 diphenylethylamine 576 mg, 2.67 mmol and 3 pentanol 0.5 ml under argon was heated in an oil bath at 140 1500C. The reaction became homogeneous after less than a minute of heating. After 3.5 hours, the oil bath was removed and the reaction was allowed to cool slightly. Acetonitrile 5 ml was added, and the solution was allowed to cool to room temperature. Crystals did not form. The reaction mixture was rotary evaporated to a brown oil, diluted with toluene and evaporated again. The resulting oil was chromatographed on silica dichloromethane g 1 , methanol in dichloromethane with trace triethylamine to give a foam. This was taken up in 20 isopropanol in acetonitrile 25 ml treated withSN ethanolic hydrogen chloride 5 ml , and allowed to stand overnight. Only a small amount of material crystallized, so the solvent was evaporated, and the resulting foam was triturated with hexane isopropyl ether acetonitrile approximately 1 1 1 to give white crystals 620 mg .Microanalysis showed the compound to be impure.Recrystallization from acetontrile gave analytically pure white crystals 312 mg , melting point 225 2270C. Analysis Calc d. for C26H29NO3HCl C, 70.98 H, 6.87 N, 3.18Found C, 71.14 H, 6.95 N, 3.22 Example 21 trans 3 3, 3 Diphenylpropyl methylamino 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 6,7 dimethoxy 2 naphthalenol The reaction mixture containing 6,7 epoxy5,6,7,8 dimethoxynaphthalene 750 mg, 3.64 mmol , 3,3 diphenylpropyl methyl amine 875 mg, 3.89 mmol and 3 pentanol 0.5 ml was heated under argon at 160 1650C oil bath for 9 hours the reaction turned brown. It was cooled slightly and diluted with isopropanol 15 ml and then allowed to cool to room temperature gradually. An off white precipitate was formed which was filtered off and washed with more isopropanol and anhydrous ether.This material 1.3 g was recrystallized twice from isopropanol to provide the title compound in analytically pure form 1.03 g , melting point 154 1560C.Analysis Calc d. for C28H33NO3 C, 77 93 H, 7.71 N, 3.25Found C, 77.85 H, 7.63 N, 3.10 Example 22 trans 1,2,3, 4 Tetrahydro 6, 7 dimethoxy 3 3 4 methoxyphenyl 3 phenylpropyl amino 2 naphthalenol, hydrochloride salt 1 1 A reaction mixture containing 6,7 epoxide 5,6,7, 8 tetrahydro 2 , 3 dimethoxynaphthalene 690 mg, 3.35 mmol , 3 4 methoxyphenyl 3 phenyl propyljamine 890 mg, 3.69 mmol and 3 pentanol 0.5 ml was heated at 1600C oil bath temp. for 4 hours. The reaction was allowed to cool slightly and diluted with isopropanol 15 ml . It was then allowed to cool down to room temperature whereby an off white solid precipitated out.The light brown suspension was treated with ethanolic hydrogen chloride 3 ml of 5.5N solution . The solution became homogeneous momentarily and then a tan solid crystallized out. The solid was filtered off and washed with isopropanol and ether to give the desired product 1.3 g . This material was recrystallized twice from isopropanol methanol to provide the analytically pure product 870 mg , melting point 194 2020C.Analysis Calc d. for C28H33NO4HCl C, 68.33 H, 7.15 N, 2.85 Found C, 68.33 H, 7.09 N, 2.85 Example 23 trans 3 3,3 Diphenylpropyl amino l,2,3,4 tetrahydro 6,7 dimethoxy 2 naphthaIenol, monoacetate ester, hydrochloride salt 1 1 A suspension of trans 3 3,3 diphenyl propylXamino3 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 6,7 dimethoxy 2 naphthalenol, hydrochloride salt 1 1 700 mg, 1.54 mmol, see Example 12 in chloroform 15 ml was treated with excess acetyl chloride 0.3 ml, 4 mmol and the resulting heterogeneous reaction mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature under argon. After 6 hours, the reaction became homogeneous. The stirring was continued overnight and the solvent was then evaporated.The colorless oily residue was crystallized from isopropanol to give the title compound 698 mg , melting point 209 211,50C. Analysis Calc d. for C29H33NO4 HCl C, 70.22 H, 6.91 N, 2.82Found C, 70.09 H, 6.91 N, 2.79 Example 24 trans 1,2,3,4 Tetrahydro 6,7 dimethoxy 3 4 methyl 3 phenylpentyl amino 2 naphthalenol, hydrochloride salt 1 1 A solution of 4 methyl 3 phenylpentyl amine 500 mg, 2.8 mmol , 6,7 epoxy 5,6,7,8 tetrahydro 2,3 dimethoxynaphthalene 618 mg, 3.0 mmol and 3 pentanol 0.2 ml under argon was refluxed in an oil bath at 1600C for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was allowed to cool to room temperature and was co evaporated with tolune a few times.The oil obtained was chromatographed silica, 4 methanol in dichloromethane to yield, again, an oil. This was taken up in 10 acetonitrile in ether and treated with 5N ethanolic hydrogen chloride 2 ml . Analytically pure white crystals were obtained 794 mg . This material was combined with 200 mg from another run and recrystallized from isopropanol methanol to give analytically pure white crystals 621 mg , melting point 243 2450C dec .Analysis Calc d. for C24H33NO3HCl C, 68.64 H, 8.16 N, 3.33Found C, 68.32 H, 8.14 N, 3.34 Example 25 trans 3 t2 9H Fluoren 9 yl ethyl amino 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 6,7 dimethoxy 2 naphthalenol, hydrochloride salt 1 1 A solution of 2 9H fluoren 9 yl ethylj amine 630 mg, 30 mmol and 6,7 epoxy 5,6,7,8 tetrahydro 2, 3 dimethoxynaphthalene 516 mg, 2.5 mmol in 3 pentanol 0.2 ml under argon was heated in an oil bath at 1600C for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was allowed to cool to room temperature and was co evaporated several times with toluene. The oily residue was chromatographed silica, 4 methanol in acetonitrile to give, again, an oil.This was taken up in chloroform isopropanol ether and treated with excess ethanolic hydrogen chloride SN . Off white crystals were obtained 785 mg . Recrystallization from methanol gave analytically pure colorless crystals 582 mg , melting point decomposes 2750C. Analysis Calc d. for C27H29NO3.HCl C, 71.75 H, 6.47 N, 3.10Found C, 71.90 H, 6.70 N, 3.23 Example 26 trans 3 S,5 Diphenylpentyl amino l,2,3,4 tetrahydro 5 , S dimethoxy 2 naphthalenol, hydrochloride salt 1 1 A mixture of 6,7 epoxy 5,6,7, 8 tetrahydro 1, 4 dimethoxynaphthalene 0.95 g, 4.62 mmol , 5,5 diphenylpentylamine 1.15 g, 4.76 mmol and 0.2 ml of 3 pentanol was heated under argon oil bath temperature 160 C for 3.5 hours. After cooling for ca. five minutes, 7 ml of isopropanol were added to induce crystallization. Filtration of the reaction mixture yielded a mixture of a solid and a tar 1.95 g .Flash chromatography LPS 1, 200 g of the crude amine yielded the title compound as a light brown oil 0.57 g .Complete elution of the title compound required dichloromethane methanol solutions with increasing amounts bf methanol until 100 methanol was used.Also eluted from the column was 0.53 g of material with an Rf similar to that of the starting epoxide silica, 90 10 dichloromethane methanol . TLC of the title compound silica, 90 10 dichloromethane methanol indicated the presence of several impurities. The crude product was dissolved in isopropanol and acidified with 6M hydrogen chloride removal of the isopropanol water in vacuo yielded a brown solid which was recrystallized from 95 ethanol to yield 0.24 g of an off white crystalline solid. Attempts at recrystallization from other solvent systems may have caused some decomposition, decreasing the yield.Analysis Calc d. for C29E35NO3 HCl 0.41H2O C, 71.17 H, 7.58 N, 2.86Found C, 71.17 H, 7.55 N, 2.89 Example 27 trans 3 3,3 Diphenylpropyl aminoj l,2,3,4 tetrahydro 6, 7 dimethoxy 2 naphthalenol, lactate salt 1 1 trans 3 3 ,3 diphenylpropyl amino 1,2,3, 4 tetrahydro 6, 7 dimethoxy 2 naphthalenol 4.1 g, 9183 mmol, regenerated from the hydrochloride salt of Example 12 in chloroform 15 ml was treated with the solution of 80 lactate acid 1.61 g, 14.4 mmol, dl in the same solvent 5 ml .After about 10 minutes, anhydrous ether was added slowly until the solution became slightly cloudy.On swirling the flask, colorless crystals of the lactic acid salt were formed. More anhydrous ether was added until most of the product crystallized out. The solid was filtered off and washed with ether to give colorless crystallizatine salt 4.9 g . Microanalysis showed this material to be deficient in carbon. The product was dried under vacuum at 650C overnight but the analysis showed no improvement. The NMR 270 MHz revealed the presence of some ether in the sample. The product was recrystallized from acetonitrile 50 60 ml is needed to dissolve 1 g of the salt to give analytically pure product 4.46 g , melting point 175 176.5 C. Analysis Calc d. for C27H1NO3C3H6O2 Cur 70.98 H, 7.35 N, 2.76Found C, 71.10 H, 7.33 N, 2.82 Example 28 trans N 3,3 Diphenylpropyl 1,2,3,4 tetra hydro 3 , 6, 7 trimethoxy 2 naphthalenamine, oxalate salt 1 1 A suspension of potassium hyride 74 mg of 24 suspension in oil, 1.83 mmol in anhydrous tetrahydrofuran 1 ml was cooled to OOC and treated with the solution of trans 3 3,3 diphenylpropyl mmino 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 6,7 dimethoxy 2 naphthalenol 700 mg, 1.7 mmol, regenerated from the hydrochloride salt of Example 12 in tetrahydrofuran dimethylformamide 12 ml, 5 1 .After the addition was over, the reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature and stirring was continued for 30 minutes. It was then cooled to OOC and treated dropwise with methyl iodide 260 mg, 1.83 mmol . The reaction was allowed to stir at room temperature for 3 hours and then quenched with methanol 2 ml followed by water 5 ml . The reaction was extracted with chloroform, and the extracts were washed with water 3 x 15 ml , brine and dried over anhydrous potassium carbonate. Evaporation provided a pale yellow oil which was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel 2 methanol in chloroform to provide the desired product 449 mg . Some starting material 152 mg was alsd recovered from the column. The desired product did not crystallize from a variety of solvent systems.It was, therefore, converted to its hydrochloride by treatment with ethanolic hydrogen chloride 1 ml of 5.5 N solution . The hydrochloride also turned out to be exceedingly difficult to recrystallize. The free amine was regenerated chloroform solution was washed with 2N sodium hydroxide and purified again by flash chromatography 2 methanol in chloroform to give colorless foam 360 mg . It was dissolved in isopropanol 5 ml and treated with oxalic acid 75 mg . After about 30 minutes, a white solid had separated.The solvent was stripped off, and the product was recrystallized from acetone to give colorless crystals 301 mg , melting point 186 1880C, Analysis Calc d. for C28H33N03 C2H204 C, 68.22 H, 6.82 N, 2.65Found C, 68.22 H, 6.82 N, 2.55 Example 29 cis 3 3,3 Diphenylpropyl amino 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 6, 7 dimethoxy 2 naphthalenol, hydrochloride salt 1 1 A trans 3 Benzoylamino 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 6,7 dimethoxy 2 naphthalenol To a solution of trans 3 amino 1,2,3,4tetrahydro 6,7 dimethoxy 2 naphthalenol 1.30 g, 5.0 mmol in water 15 ml at OOC was added a solution of benzoyl chloride 0.70 g, 5.0 mmol in toluene 5 ml .To this vigorously stirred twophase mixture was added, over the course of 2 hours, sufficient IN aqueous sodium hydroxide to keep the pE at 7 9. A white precipitate formed shortly after the first addition of sodium hydroxide solution . The mixture was diluted with chloroform and 1N sodium hydroxide and shaken in a separatory funnel. The precipitate would not dissolve, however, so the mixture was filtered and the filter cake washed with water. The white solid obtained was recrystallized from acetonitrile to give white crystals, 1.30 g, melting point 209 211 C. A second crop was obtained white crystals, 176 mg, melting point partial at 191 1930C, cmplete at 209 2110C that was identical by TLC. Combined yield 1.48 g. B cis 3 Amino 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 6,7 dimethoxy 2 naphthalenol, hydrochloride salt 1 1 A solution of trans 3 benzoylamino 1,2,3, 4 tetrahydro 6, 7 dimethoxy 2 naphthalenol 1.15 g, 3.52 mmol in thionyl chloride 0.7 ml under argon was heated in an oil bath at 50 C for 2 hours. The brown reaction mixutre was diluted with toluene, and a colorless precipitate formed.The solvent was rotary evaporated, leaving a pale orange solid. A suspension of the solid in 2.5N aqueous hydrogen chloride was refluxed overnight, and the solid gradually dissolved. The solution was allowed to cool and two layers formed. The solvent was rotary evaporated, and the oily residue was triturated with acetonitrile to give an off white solid 672 mg .C 3,3 DiphenylProPionaldehyde To a suspension of pyridinium chlorochromate 1.30 g, 6.0 mmol in dry dichloromethane 8 ml under argon was added a solution of 3,3 diphenyl l propanol 0.851 g, 4.0 mmol in dry dichloromethane 4 ml . The mixture darkened and became homogeneous. After a few minutes, a black gum began to precipitate. The reaction mixture was allowed to stir for 2 hours, and then was diluted with ether 50 ml and suction filtered through a sintered glass funnel containing a pad ofFluorisil under a pad of Celite. The filter pad was rinsed with ether 3 x 10 ml , and the filtrate was evaporated to a nearly colorless oil 727 mg .D cis 3 3,3 Diphenylpropyl amino 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 6 , 7 dimethoxy 2 naphthalenol, hydrochloride salt 1 1 To a solution of cis 3 amino 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 6,7 dimethoxy 2 naphthalenol, hydrochloride salt 1 1 622 mg, 2.4 mmol in dry methanol 5 ml under argon was added triethylamine 0.21 ml, 1.5 mmol followed by a solution of 3,3 diphenylpropionaldehyde 626 mg, 3.0 mmol in dry methanol 5 ml . Sodium cyanoborohydride 280 mg, 4.5 mmol, Aldrich was then added, and the solution was allowed to stir at room temperature for two days. The solution was then cooled in an ice water bath and treated dropwise with concentrated hydrochloric acid until the pH was 2. The solvent was rotary evaporated leaving a colorless solid.To the solid were added ice, chloroform, and 1N aqueous sodium hydroxide, and this mixture was shaken until the solid dissolved. The layers were separated, and the aqueous phase was extracted again with chlorform.The combined organic extracts were washed with brine, dried anhydrous potassium carbonate , filtered, and rotary evaporated to an oil. The oil was chromatographed on silica dichloromethane methanol acetic acid, 100 1 1 followed by 4 methanol in dichloromethane to give an oil. This was taken up in dichloromethane, washed with 1N sodium hydroxide, brine, dried potassium carbonate , filtered and treated with excess methanolic hydrogen chloride The solvent was evaporated, and the colorless solid residue was recrystallized from isopropanol chloroform methanol to give analytically pure white crystals 388 mg , melting point 257.5 260 C dec . Yield of this experiment can be increased by recrystallization of the intermediate of part B from acetonitrile prior to its use in the next step.Analysis Calc d. for C27H3XNO2 HCl C, 71.43 H, 7.10 N, 3.09 CI, 7.81Found C, 71.44 H, 7.20 N, 2.98 CI, 7.76