# Blends of poly aryl ether ketones.

## Abstract
The invention relates to polymeric blends comprising a a first component comprising a poly aryl ether ketone and b a second component comprising a polyetherimide or the co polymers thereof wherein the poly aryl ether ketone comprises at least 40 weight percent of the weight of a plus b . These polymers are molecularly compatible and the blends show surprisingly increased tensile strength at high temperatures and increased elongation over that expected from a mechanical blend and said blends containing at least 40 of poly aryl ether ketone exhibit relatively constant physical properties over the entire range of concentrations.

## Claims
tat is clsimed is 1. A composition comprising a a first component comprising a poly aryl ether ketone and b a second component comprising a polyetherimide wherein the poly aryl ether ketone comprises at least about 40 weight percent of the weight of a plus b . 2. A composition according to claim 1 wherein the poly aryl ether ketone has the repeat unit of the formula EMI20.1 3. A composition according to claim 1 wherein the poly aryl ether ketone has the repeat unit of the formula EMI20.2 4. A composition according to claim 1 wherein the poly aryl ether ketone has the repeat unit of the formula EMI20.3 5. A composition according to claim 1 wherein the polyetherimide is of the formula EMI21.1 6. A composition according to claim 1 which further comprises plasticizers. 7. A composition according to claim 1 which further comprises pigments. 8. A composition according to claim 1 which further comprises flame retardants. 9. A composition according to claim 1 which further comprises reinforcing agents. 10. A composition according to claim 1 which further comprises thermal stabilizers. 11. A composition according to claim 1 which further comprises ultraviolet light stabilizers. 12. A composition according to claim 1 which further comprises processing aids. 13. A composition according to claim I which further comprises impact modifiers. 14. A composition according to claim 1 which further comprises other polymers. 15. A composition according to claim 1 which has been annealed. 16. A composition according to claim 1 wherein the poly aryl ether ketone comprises at least about 50 weight percent of the weight of a plus b .

## Description
This invention relates to blends of polymers. More particularly the invention relates to blends of at least about 4รปv weight percent poly aryl ether ketone with a polyetherimide resin. Poly aryl ether ketones are known in the art and are tough, rigid, high performance thermoplastics which have excellent mechanical and electrical properties. Articles formed from them maintain their properties over a wide temperature range and can be used continuously at high use temperature. The polyetherimides are well known in the art and are described in for example U.S. Patent Nos. 3,847,867, 3,838,097, 4,107,147 and 4,293,670. Theyare amorphous polymers which can be processed at high temperature, are readily formed and have good temperature resistance. It is well known that most polymers are generally incpmpatible with each other. Most blends of two or more polymers contain the separate polymers as individual component domains or phases. Blends of what are termed compatible polymers generally are mechanically compstibl e only and exhibit properties which vary widely over the concentration range of the polymers. Such blends comprise a matrix polymer containing the other polymer as a dispersed or co continuous phase. Such numerous dispersed phases can be microscopic in size sometimes giving the resulting blend the appearance of being only a single phase. There are, however, a few pairs of polymer pairs which are molecularly compatible, that is they form a molecularly dispersed mixture comprising a single amorphous phase when they are blended together.Not only do such blends not separate into their individual amorphous components, but they are also characterized by having a single glass transition temperature Tg . Mechanically compatible blends, on the other hand, exhibit two or more Tg s characteristic of those of the individual components. By the Tg is meant the approximate temperature at which an amorphous polymer or the amorphous regions of a partially crystalline polymer changes from a hard and relatively brittle state to a more flexible or rubbery condition. Measurement of glass transition temperatures of polymer systems is described in, for example, Thermal Characterization Technique, Slade, et al., Harcel Dekker Inc., New York 1970 . In U.S. Patent No. 4,293,670 to Robeson et al., incorporated herein by reference, compositions are described comprising blends of poly aryl ethers and polyetherimides resins. The only specific blends reported in the patent are blends of a poly aryl ether sulfone and a polyetherimide. Such blends exhibit mechanical compatibility with each blend having more than one glass transition temperature. Blends of a polyetherimide and a poly aryl ether ketone are discussed only in very general terms and no specifie blend of a poly aryl ether ketone and a polyetherimide is reported. There is no mention that blends of these components are molecularly compatible and therefore different from the poly aryl ether sulfone polyetherimide blends which are specifically described. It has now been unexpectedly found that blends comprising a a first component comprising a poly aryl ether ketone and b a second component comprising a polyetherimide and the co polymers thereof wherein the poly aryl ether ketone is at least about 40 weight percent of the weight of a plus b are molecularly compatible and show surprisingly increased tensile strength at high temperatures arid increased elongation over that expected from a mechanical blend and relatively constant physical properties over the entire range of concentrations of the blend. In a preferred embodiment the poly aryl ether ketone comprises at least 50 of the weight of a plus b . The term poly aryl ether ketone refers to polymers having the repeat unit of the formula CO Ar CO Ar wherein Ar and Ar are aromatic moieties at least one of which contains a diaryl ether linkage forming part of the polymer backbone and wherein both Ar and Ar are coval tly linked to the carbonyl groups through aromatic carbon atoms. Preferably, Ar and Ar are independently selected from substituted and unsubstituted phenylene and substituted d unsubstituted polynuclear aromatic moieties. The term polynuclear aromatic moieites is used to mean aromatic moieties containing at least two aromatic rings. The rings can be fused, joined by a direct bond or by a linking group.Such linking groups include for example, carbonyl, ether sulfone, sulfide, amide, imide, azo, alkylene, perfluoroalkylene and the like. As mentioned above, at least one Jf Ar and Ar contains a diaryl ether linkage. The phenylene and polynuclear aromatic moieties cani contain substituents on the aromatic rings. These subs1lL tuents should not inhibit or otherwise interfere with te polymerization reaction to any significant extent. Suc substituents include, for example, phenyl, halogen, nitro, cyano, alkyl, 2 alkynyl and the like. Poly sryl ether ketones having the following resat units the simplest repeat unit being designated for X given polymer are preferred EMI4.1 EMI5.1 Poly aryl ether ketones can be prepared by known methods of synthesis.A preferred method comprises FriedelCrafts polymerization of a monomer system comprising I i phosgene or an aromatic diacid dihalide together with ii a polynuclear aromatic comonomer comprising a H Ar 0 Ar H b H Ar D n Ar H wherein n is 2 or 3 c H Ar O Ar CO Ar O Ar w wherein m is 1, 2 or 3 orII an acid halide of the formula H Ar O Ar CO Ar O Ar CO 3 Ar C0 Z p q rk wherein Z is halogen, k is 0, 1 or 2, p is I or 2, q is 0, 1 or 2 and r is 0, 1 or 2 orIII an acid halide of the formula H Arn O . Ar Y wherein n is 2 or 3 and Y is CO Z or CO Ar CO Z where 7 is halogen wherein each Ar is independently selected from substituted or unsubstituted phenylene, and substituted and unsubstituted polynuclear aromatic moieties free of ketone carbonyl or ether oxygen groups, in the presence of a reaction medium comprising A A Lewis acid in an amount of one equivalent per equivalent of carbonyl groups present, plus one equivalent per equivalent of Lewis base, plus an amount effective to act as a catalyst for the polymerization B a Lewis base in an amount from 0 to about 4 equivalents per equivalent of acid halide groups present in the monomer system and C a non protic diluent in an amount from 0 to about 93N by weight, based on the weight of the total reaction mixture. The aromatic diacid dihalide employed is preferably a dichloride or dibromide. Illustrative diacid dihalides which can be used include, for exampleEMI7.1 wherein a is 0 4. Illustrated polynuclear aromatic comonomers which can used with such diacid halides are a H Ar O Ar H, which includes, for example EMI8.1 b H Ar O n Ar H, which include, for example EMI8.2 andEMI8.3 c H Ar O Ar CO Ar D Ar m H which includes, for example EMI8.4 and d H Arn O n Arn CO Ar O Ar H which includes, for example EMI8.5 Monomer systems II and III comprise an acid halide. The term acid halide is used herein. to refer to a monoacid monohalide. In monomer system II, the acid halide is of the formula H Ar O Ar CO p Ar O q Ar CO r k Ar CO Z Such monomers include for example, where k 0EMI9.1 and where k 1EMI9.2 In monomer system III, the acid halide is of the formula H Ar O n Ar Y Examples of such acid halides includeEMI10.1 andEMI10.2 It is to be understood that combinations of monomers can be employed. For example, one or more diacid dihalides can be used with one or more polynuclear aromatic comonomers as long as the correct stoichiometry is maintained. Further, one or more acid halides can be included. In addition monomers which contain other linkages such as those specified above, can be employed as long a one or more of the comonomers used contains at least one ether oxygen linkage.Such comonomers include for example EMI10.3 which can be used as the sole comonomer with an ether containing diacid dihalide or with phosgene or any diacid dihalide when used in addition to a polynuclesr aromatic comonomer as defined in I ii a , I ii b , I ii c orI ii d . SimilarlyEMI11.1 can be used as a comonomer together with an ether containing polynuclear aromatic acid halide or as an additional comonomer together with a monomer system as defined in I. The monomer system can also contain up to about 30 mole of a comonomer such as a sulfonyl chloride which polymerizes under Friedel Crefts conditions to provide ketone sulfone copolymers. Further details of this process for producing poly aryl ether ketones can be found in commonly assigned co pendingU.S. application Serial No. 594,503, filed 31 March 1984, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. A second component polyetherimide of the invention comprises those described in U.S. Patent 4,293,670 ancorporated herein by reference. A preferred polyetherimide has the repeat unit.EMI12.1 The polymers used in the invention can be used in any of the various commercial or non commercial grades which may vary in average molecular weights, molecular weight distributions and contain minor amounts of comonomer residues and the like. Blends of molecularly compatible polymers are characterized in that they comprise a single amorphous phase although.any crystalline portions may exist as a separate phase. One aspect of this degree of compatibility is that the amorphous phase exhibits a single glass transition temperature as defined above. The molecularly compatible polymers suitable for use in preparing blends in accordance with this invention comprise from about 40 weight percent of the poly aryl ether ketone and preferably from about 50 weight percent. The compositions of this invention are prepared by any conventional mixing methods. For example, the components can be mixed on a two roll mill, in an internal mixer such as a Brabender mixer or Banbauy mixer or in a single or twin screw extruder. They may also be prepared by casting or precipitation from solution or the like.The blended article can be shaped, for example, by extrusion, casting, melt spinning, injection molding, hydraulic processing, blow molding or the like. Further, the blends can be annealed by any method known in the art. Additives may be included in the present blends.These additives include plasticizers pigments flame retardant additives, particularly, decabromodiphenyl ether and triarylphosphates, such as triphenylphosphate reinforcing agents, such as glass fibers thermal stabilizers ultraviolet light stabilizers, processing aids, impact modifiers , and the like. The blends may also contain other polymers such as PTFE and the like. The blends of the invention have various uses. For example, they may have high temperature applications such as, automobile parts, engine parts and connectors, electrical components. Further they may be used as boxes, boards, connectors, covers such as for wires , bearings, bearing surfaces or the like. Figure 1 is a graph which shows NormalizedCrystallization area neses concentration of Polyetherketone PEK and Polyetherimide PEI . Figure 2 is a graph which shows stress crsck after solvent exposure. Figure 3 is a graph which shows secant modulus 2300C. Figure 4 is a graph of Tg. Figure 5 is a graph of room temperature elongation. The following examples serve to further describe and illustrate the practice of the invention. One skilled in the art would readily be able to make substitutions of co polymers or make adjustments in temperature, mixing conditions, etc. The examples are not intended in any way to limit the scope of the invention. Example 1 Blends were prepared of a polyetherimide, Ultem 1000 produced commercially by General Electric of the repeat unit and a polyetherketone, Victrex PEEK Poly p carbonylphenylene p oxy phenylene p oxy phenylene commercially produced by ICI America, Inc. A dry blend of the pelletized materials was compounded using a twin screw extruder using a temperature profile from about 350 C to 380 C. The material was cooled in a water trough and pelletized. Pellets obtained in this fashion were injection molded into tensile and flexural testing specimens at temperatures from 3500C to 3900C using mold temperatures of 120 127 C at injection pressures of 1000 to 1100 psi.Similarly pellets of the individual components may similarly be processed and molded. Alternately test specimens were obtained by an extrusion of compounded pellets or individual component pellets in a single screw extruder into a thin tape form using temperatures between 340 C and 37รป C. A die punch in a hydraulic press was used to produce test speciments. Mechanical properties obtained for test specimens are shown in Table I. From the table, it is evident that the physical properties and stress care resistors decrease dramatically at a PEEK concentration of about h0 50S. TABLE I 1 Secant 1 Tensile 2 Ultimate 2 Concentration Concentration Modulus Strength Elongation Stress to Cra of pf Q 230eC 2300C At Ambient inPolvetherketone Polyetherimide PSI PSI .Tempt. v Acetone PSI 100 0 27533 8224 110 11051 95.5 4.5 12252 90 10 21600 6316 122 80 20 17775 7077 120 11921 70 30 13050 5663 107 60 40 9533 9151 130 11997 50 50 7233 2403 155 11563 40 60 4667 747 154 4617 30 70 2833 17 16 20 g 767 38 6 3477 10 90 600 476 18 0 100 97 380 12 3371 1 Bars tested 2 Tape tested Example 2 Thermal properties were obtained for test specimens produced as in Example 1. Glass transition temperatures were determined both by Differential Scanning Calorimetry DSC and using a Rheometrics mechanical spectrometer RMS . Table II shows results of these determinations TABLE IIConcentration Concentration Heat Normalized of of DSC RMS Deflection Crystalline Polyetherimide Polyetherimide Iq Tq . Temperature Area 100 0 155 160 172 8.92 95.5 4.5 165 175 11.2 90 10 167 168 , 181 11.2 80 20 172 180 192 10.2 70 30 179 197 8.4 60 40 188 209 9.6 50 50 203 205 9.1 40 60 206 214 208 10.8 30 70 201 . 209 1.3 20 80 208 208 211 10 90 218 213 0 100 222 221 218 It is evident from these results that a material composed of polymers compatible on a molecular scale is obtained as shown by a single Tg for the blends which is intermediate between that of the homopolymers at all concentrations.In addition, a melt processable, non reinforced semicrystalline polymer composition with heat deflection temperatures as high as 2080C is obtained. It appears that the polyetherimide may plasticize the polyetherketone to the extent that under these conditions, higher normalized crystallinities are obtained in the blends than for PEEK and that higher elongations are obtained for some of the blends than for either component alone. Figure 5 .Example 3 A blend of 50X Ultem polyetherimide and 50 VictrexPEEK polyetherketone was prepared in a Brabender mixing bowl at 4000C and Tg measured using a DSC.Example 4 A blend of 60V Poly p carbonyl phenylene p oxy phenylene and 40 Ultem polyetherimide was prepared on a twin screw extruder in a temperature range from 360 to 3900C. A single glass transition temperature of the blend was determined to be 1930C, intermediate between the value of 166cm determined for the polyetherketone alone and that of Ultem. Example 5 Mechanical properties and glass transition temperatures were determined for blends of PEEK and Ultem, prior to annealing of extruded tape. Results are shown in Table III below. TABLE III Tensile Strength Ultimate PEEK PEI psi Elonqation รง Tq 100 0 9599 127 152 90 10 9937 127 160 80 20 9273 117 164 70 30 9804 130 169 60 40 10380 123 178 50 50 8966 100 189 40 60 9364 87 195 30 70 10790 40 204 20 80 11100 23 211 10 90 11060 14 220 0 100 10483 80 222Example 6 Blends were made according to Example 1 execpt the poly aryl ether ketone is Poly p carbonyl phenylene pcarbonyl phenylene p oxy phenylene p oxy phenylene .