# 1 Propanone derivatives and pharmaceutical compositions containing same.

## Abstract
1 Propanone derivatives represented by the formula

## Claims
What is claimed is 1. l Propanone derivatives represented by the formula EMI72.1 wherein Ar is a 4 cycloalkylphenyl, 3,4 methylenedioxyphenyl or 2,3 dihydro 5 benzJranyl group, R is a straight chain, branched or cyclic alkyl group having 1 to 6 carbon atoms or a cyclopentylmethyl group, and A C an unsubstituted or substituted l pyrrolidinyl, piperidino, hexahydro la azepin l yl or octahydroazocin l yl group, and physiologically acceptable acid addition salts thereof. 2. Derivatives as claimed in claim 1 wherein Ar is a 4cycloalkylphenyl group, and physiologically acceptable acid addition salts thereof. 3. Derivatives as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein the 4cycloalkylphenyl group is 4 cyclopropylphenyl, and physiologically acceptable acid addition salts thereof. 4. Derivatives as claimed in claim 1 wherein Ar is a 3,4methylenedioxyphenyl group, and physiologically acceptable acid addition salts thereof. 5. Derivatives as claimed in claim 1 wherein Ar is a 2,3dihydro 5 benzofuranyl group, and physiologically acceptable acid addition salts thereof. 6. 1 4 Cyclopropylphenyl 2 methyl 3 l pyrrolidinyl 1propanone hydrochloride. 7. 1 4 Cyclopropylphenyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino 1 propanone hydrochloride. 8. 1 4 Cyclopropylphenyl 2 methyl 3 hexahydro lE azepin l yl l propanone hydrochloride. 9. 1 4 Cyclopropylphenyl 2 ethyl 3 l pyrrolidinyl 1propanone hydrochloride. 10. 1 4 Cyclopropylphenyl 2 ethyl 3 piperidino l propanone hydrochloride. 11. 1 4 Cyclopropylphenyl 2 isopropyl 3 piperidino l propanone hydrochloride. 12. 2 Methyl 1 3,4 methylenedioxyphenyl 3 l pyrrolidi nyl l propanone hydrochloride. 13. 2 Methyl 1 3,4 methylenedioxyphenyl 3 piperidino 1propanone hydrochloride. 14. 2 Methyl 1 3, methylenedioxyphenyl 3 hexahydro lE azepin l yl l propanone hydrochloride. 15. 2 Ethyl 1 3,4 methylenedioxyphenyl 3 l pyrrolidinyl 1 propanone hydrochloride. 16. 2 Ethyl 1 3,4 methylenedioxyphenyl 3 piperidino 1propanone hydrochloride. 17. 1 3,4 Methylenedioxyphenyl 2 n propyl 3 piperidino 1propanone hydrochloride. 18. 1 2,3 Dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 methyl 3 l pyrrolidi nyl l propanone hydrochloride. 19. 1 2,3 Dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino 1propanone hydrochloride. 20. 1 2,3 Dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 methyl 3 hexahydro lll azepin l yl l propanone hydrochloride. 21. 1 2 ,3 Dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 ethyi 3 1 pyrrolidinyl l propanone hydrochloride. 22. 1 2,3 Dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 ethyl 3 piperidino 1propanone hydrochloride. 23. 1 2 ,3 Dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 ethyi 3 hexahydro iH azepin i yi 1 propanone hydrochloride. 24. A pharmaceutical composition having central muscle relaxant activity which comprises a compound as claimed in any of claims 1 to 23 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

## Description
1 PROPANONE DERIVATIVES AND PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITIONS CONTAINING SAME BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 1 Field of the Invention This invention relates to l propanone derivatives having central muscle relaxant activity. More particularly, it relates to compounds represented by the formula EMI1.1 wherein Ar is a 4 cycloalkylphenyl, 3,4 methylenedioxyphenyl or 2,3 dihydro 5 benzofuranyl group, R is a straight chain, branched or cyclic alkyl group having 1 to 6 carbon atoms or a cyclopentylmethyl group, and A is an unsubstituted or substituted 1pyrrolidinyl, piperidino, hexahydro lH azepin l yl or octahydroazocin l yl group, and physiologically acceptable acid addition salts thereof. 2 Description of the Prior Art Conventionally, a number of l propanone derivatives having central muscle relaxant activity are known. For example, 2 methyl 1 4 methylphenyl 3 1 piperidinyl 1 propanone Tolperisone cf. The Merck Index, 10th ed., 9351 1983 J is being widely used as a central muscle relaxant. As compounds having more excellent pharmacological activities than Tolperisone, 1 4 C2 3alkylphenyl 2 methyl 3 1 piperidinyl 1 propanones are disclosed in U.S. Patents Nos. 3,995,047 and 4,181,803, and the compound in which the C2alkyl group is ethyl i.e.,Eperisone is described in The Merck Index, 10th ed., 3555 1983 . Moreover, a variety of 1 4 substituted phenyl 2 alkyl 3 1cyclic amino l propanone compounds are known. In these compounds, however, the substituent of the 4 substituted phenyl group is hydroxy, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, halogen, phenyl, amino, sulfonyl, carboxy, cyclohexylmethyl, cyclohexyloxy, cyclohexylthio or the like, and none of them have a cycloalkyl substituent. Furthermore, a number of l 3,4 methylenedioxyphenyl 3 1cyclic amino l propanone compounds are known. However, none of them have a substituent at the 2 position of l propanone.For example, 3w4 methylenedioxyphenyl 3 1 piperidinyl or 1 pyrrolidinyl l 1 propanone as a urinary metabolite of safrole is disclosed in Biochim. Biophys. Acta,,230 2 , 237 47 1971 C.A., Vol. 76, 30698v 1972 , 1 3,4 methylenedioxyphenyl 3 2 phenyl 1 pyrrolidinyl 1 propanone exhibiting an adrenoand nicotinolytic action is disclosed in U.S.S.R. Patent No.166348 fC.A., Vol. 62, 3995b 1965 1, and l 3,4 methylenedioxy phenyl 3 1 piperidinyl 1 propanone having antispasmodic activity is disclosed in J. Air. Chem. Soc., 71, 2048 50 1949 . In yakugaku Zasshi, 97 5 , 40 552 1977 , it is described that l 2,2 dimethyl 2,3 dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 methyl 3 l piperidinyl l propanone has antireserpine activity and exerts no influence on spontaneous motor movements. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION An object of the present invention is to provide novel 1propanone derivatives represented by formula I and physiologically acceptable acid addition salts thereof which are useful as central muscle relaxants because of their antinicotine activity, anti tremorine activity, muscle relaxant activity and rigidity reluxing effect. Another object of the present invention is to provide l propanone derivatives which are superior to Tolperisone and Eperisone in central muscle relaxant activity and duration of action. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS In the compounds of the present invention whidh are within the scope of formula I , the 4 cycloalkylphenyl group represented by Ar is 4 cyclopropylphenyl, 4 cyclobutylphenyl, 4 cyclopentylphenyl or 4 cyclohexylphenyl. The straightchain, branched or cyclic alkyl group having 1 to 6 carbon atoms, which is represented by R, is methyl, ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl, n butyl, sec butyl, isobutyl, tert butyl, n pentyl, n hexyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl or the like. The radical represented by A is l pyrrolidinyl, piperidino, hexahydro la azepin l yl or octahydroazocin l yl, and these radicals may have one or more substituents such as hydroxy, lower alkyl, phenyl, phenylalkyl, carboxy, alkoxycarbonyl and the like at any desired positions. Since the compounds of the present invention have an asymmetric carbon atom at the 2 position, each of them has two optical isomers, i.e., the and isomers. Physiologically acceptable acid addition salts of the compounds of the present invention include inorganic acid salts formed by reaction with hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid, nitric acid, phosphoric acid, etc., and organic acid salts formed by reaction with acetic acid, citric acid, succinic acid, maleic acid, fumaric acid, tartaric acid, lactic acid, etc. The compounds of the present invention can be prepared according to the following reaction equations EMI3.1 IV A H paraformaldehyde V EMI3.2 wherein Ar, R and A have the meanings defined above and X is a halogen atom. Specifically, a 4 cycloalkylbenzene, 3,4 methylenedioxybenzene or 2,3 dihydrobenzofuran of formula II panda fatty acid halide of formula III are subjected to a Friedel Crafts reaction in the presence of a Lewis acid such as aluminum chloride or tin IV chloride. This reaction is carried out at a temperature of 75 to 1000C for a period of 10 minutes to 6 hours to obtain a 4 cycloalkylphenone compound, 3 ,4 methylenedioxyphenone compound or 2,3 dihydro 5 benzofuranylketone compound of formula IV . A fatty acid anhydride may be used in place of the fatty acid halide III . As the reaction solvent, there may be used chloroform, carbon tetrachloride, methylene chloride, carbon disulfide, nitrobenzene and the like. Then, according to the Mannich reaction, the compound IV so formed is reacted with an acid addition salt of a cyclic amine V in the presence of paraformaldehyde to obtain a compound of formula I in the form of an acid addition salt. In order to accelerate the reaction, a small amount of an acid such as concentrated hydrochloric acid, concentrated sulfuric acid or the like may be added to the reaction system. The reaction is carried out at a temperature of 10 to 1500C for a period of 5 minutes to 15 hours As the reaction solvent, methanol, ethanol, propanol, isopropanol, butanol, sec butanol, tertbutanol, amyl alcohol, benzene, toluene, xylene and the like may be used alone or in admixture. The desired compound of formula I can be obtained by treating the resulting acid addition salt with alkali. If necessary, this compound may be treated with a suitable acid to form a desired acid addition salt thereof. Optical resolution of the compounds of the present invention can be carried out according to the fractional crystallization method in which a compound to be resolved is reacted with an optically active N acetyl a phenylglycine and the resulting two diastereoisomers are separated on the basis of their difference in solubility in solvents. Specifically, a i compound of formula I is reacted with N acetyl D a phenylglycine to form the N acetyl D aphenylglycine salts of its and isomers. These salts are crystallized with and or recrystallized from a suitable solvent mixture such as acetone isopropyl ether, acetone ethyl ether, etc. or a suitable solvent such as ethyl acetate, etc. to isolate and purify the slightly soluble N acetyl D a phenylglycine salt of the isomer. The resulting salt is treated with alkali to obtain the isomer of the compound of formula I , which may be converted into an acid addition salt, if desired. Then, the crystallization and or recrystallization mother liquors obtained in the above described procedure and containing a large amount of the easily soluble N acetyl D aphenylglycine salt of the isomer are concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting residue is treated with an aqueous alkaline solution to obtain the free isomer, which is reacted with N acetyl L a phenylglycine to obtain a product composed mainly of the slightly soluble N acetyl L a phenylglycine salt of the isomer. This product can be crystallized with and or recrystallized from a suitable solvent mixture such as acetone isopropyl ether, acetone ethyl ether, etc. or a suitable solvent such as ethyl acetate, etc. to isolate and purify the slightly soluble N acetyl L aphenylglycine salt of the isomer.The resulting salt is treated in the same manner as described above for the isomer to obtain the isomer of the compound of formula I , which may be converted into an acid addition salt, if desired. Alternatively, the L compound of formula I may be reacted with N acetyl L a phenylglycine. Thereafter, according to the same procedures as described above, the isomer and the isomer can be isolated and purified in that order. It is to be understood that the aforesaid four diastereoisomers, i.e. the N acetyl D a phenylglycine salt of the isomer, the N acetyl L a phenylglycine salt of the isomer, the N acetyl L a phenylglycine salt of the isomer, and the N acetyl D a phenylglycine salt of the isomer, are also novel compounds. The dosage of the compounds of the present invention may vary according to the age of the patient, the severity of the disease, and administration schedule. However, they are usually administered in a dose of 1 to 50 mg for adults. The permissible daily dose should desirably be 300 mg or less. The compounds of the present invention can be made into tablets, capsules, powders, granules, injections, syrups, suspensions, emulsions, suppositories and the like with the aid of common additives for pharmaceutical use. A variety of additives for pharmaceutical use may suitably be used according to the desired dosage form, and specific examples thereof include cellulose, lactose, sucrose, mannitol, sorbitol, starch obtained from potatoes, corn, rice, wheat, etc. , gelatin, gum arabic, tragacanth gum, polyvinyl pyrrolidone, carboxymethyl cellulose, sodium carboxymethyl cellulose, calcium carboxymethyl cellulose, talc, magnesium stearate, polyethylene glycol, polysorbate, glycerol, cacao butter, macrogol and the like. The central muscle relaxant activities of the compounds of the present invention were tested by animal experiments on anti nicotine activity, anti tremorine activity, muscle relaxant activity and rigidity reluxing effect. The typical compounds of the present invention used in these tests were as follows Table lEMI6.1 tb Examp SEP The SEP tb SEP No. SEP The SEP compounds SEP used SEP for SEP the SEP tests tb SEP 1 SEP 1 4 Cyclopropylphenyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino 1 tb SEP propanone SEP hydrochloride tb SEP 8 SEP 1 4 Cyclopropylphenyl 2 methyl 3 1 pyrrolidinyl 1 tb SEP propanone SEP hydrochloride tb SEP 9 SEP 1 4 Cyclopropylphenyl 2 methyl hexahydro 1H tb SEP azepin l yl l propanone SEP hydrochloride tb SEP 48 SEP 1 4 Cyclopropylphenyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino 1 tb SEP propanone SEP hydrochloride tb SEP 11 SEP 1 4 Cyclopropylphenyl 2 ethyl 3 piperidino 1 tb SEP propanone SEP hydrochloride tb SEP 10 SEP 1 4 Cyclopropylphenyl 2 ethyl 3 1 pyrrolidinyl 1 tb SEP propanone SEP hydrochloride tb SEP 41 SEP 1 4 Cyclopropylphenyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino 1 tb SEP propanone SEP hydrochloride tb SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 4 Cyclopropyiphenyl SEP 2 isopropyl 3 piperidino 1 SEP tb SEP propanone SEP hydrochloride tb SEP 37 SEP 2 Cyclopentyl l SEP 4 cyclopropylphenyl SEP 3 piperidino l SEP tb SEP propanone SEP hydrochloride tb SEP 57 SEP 2 Methyl 1 3,4 methylenedioxyphenyl 3 piperidino 1 tb SEP propanone SEP hydrochloride tb SEP 60 SEP 2 Methyl 1 3,4 methylenedioxyphenyl 3 1 pyrrolidi SEP tb SEP nyl 1 propanone SEP hydrochloride tb SEP 61 SEP RTI ID 6.6 2qMethyl 1 3,4 methylenedioxyphenyl 3 hexahydro SEP tb SEP lE azepin l yl l propanone SEP hydrochloride tb SEP 56 SEP 2 Ethyl 1 3, SEP 4 methylenedioxyphenyl SEP 3 l pyrrolidi SEP tb SEP nyl l propanone SEP hydrochloride tb SEP 53 SEP 2 Ethyl l SEP 3, SEP 4 methylenedioxyphenyl SEP 3 piperidino 1 SEP tb SEP propanone SEP hydrochloride tb SEP 66 SEP 1 3,4 Methylenedioxyphenyl 2 n propyl 3 piperi tb SEP dino l propanone SEP hydrochloride tb SEP 85 SEP 1 2,3 Dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 methyl 3 piperi tb SEP dino l propanone SEP hydrochloride tb SEP 92 SEP 1 2,3 Dihydro 5 benzofuranyl SEP 2 methyl 3 1 SEP tb SEP pyrrolidinyl l propanone SEP hydrochloride tb SEP 93 SEP l 2t3 Dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 methyl 3 hexahydr SEP tb SEP 1H azepin l yl l propanone SEP hydrochloride tb SEP 95 SEP 1 2,3 Dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 methyl 3 1 tb SEP pyrrolidinyl l propanone SEP hydrochloride tb Table continuedEMI7.1 tb SEP 89 SEP 1 2,3 Dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 ethyl 3 piperi tb SEP dino l propanone SEP hydrochloride tb 96 SEP 1 2,3 Dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 ethyl 3 hexa tb SEP hydro 1R azepin l yl l propanone SEP hydrochloride SEP tb 98 SEP 1 2,3 Dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 n propyl 3 1 SEP tb SEP pyrrolidinyl SEP 1 propanone SEP hydrochloride tb 99 SEP 1 2,3 Dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 n propyl 3 tb SEP piperidino 1 propanone SEP hydrochloride tb 100 SEP 1 SEP 2, SEP 3 Dihydro 5 benzofuranyl SEP 2 n propyl 3 SEP tb SEP hexahydro 1H azepin l yl l propanone SEP hydrochloride SEP tb Tolperisone Hydrochloride and Eperisone Hydrochloride were used as reference compounds. Tolperisone HC1EMI7.2 EperisoneEMI7.3 Test 1 Anti nicotine activity Male mice of ddY strain, weighing 28 to 33 g, were used in groups of eight or twelve. The test compounds were dissolved in distilled water and administered orally in a dose of 200 mg kg.After an hour, nicotine was intravenously administered in a dose of 2 mg kg. Thereafter, the occurrence of convulsive death in the mice was observed for an hour. Inhibition of death Number of surviving animals. X 100 Number of animals used Table 2aEMI8.1 tb Test SEP compd. SEP Test SEP 1 SEP Anti nicotine SEP activity tb Example SEP No. SEP Dose SEP Number SEP of SEP Number SEP of SEP Inhibition SEP tb SEP mg kg,po SEP animals SEP surviving SEP of SEP death tb SEP used SEP animals SEP tb SEP Control SEP SEP 8 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 1 SEP 200 SEP 8 SEP 8 SEP 100.0 tb SEP 8 SEP 200 SEP 8 SEP 5 SEP 62.5 tb SEP 9 SEP 200 SEP 8 SEP 6 SEP 75.0 tb SEP 48 SEP 200 SEP 8 SEP 5 SEP 62.5 tb SEP 11 SEP 200 SEP 8 SEP 3 SEP 37.5 tb SEP 10 SEP 200 SEP 8 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 41 SEP 200 SEP 8 SEP SEP SEP 3 SEP 37.5 tb Tolperisone SEP HC SEP 200 SEP 8 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP tb Eperisone SEP HC1 SEP 200 SEP 8 SEP 4 SEP 50.0 tb Table 2bEMI8.2 tb Test SEP compd. SEP Test SEP 1 SEP Anti nicotine SEP activity tb Example SEP No. SEP Dose SEP Number SEP of SEP Number SEP of SEP Inhibition tb SEP mg kg,po SEP animals SEP surviving SEP of SEP death tb SEP SEP SEP tb SEP Control SEP 12 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 57 SEP 200 SEP 12 SEP 5 SEP 41.7 tb SEP 60 SEP 200 SEP 12 SEP 7 SEP 58.3 SEP tb SEP 61 SEP 200 SEP 12 SEP 7 SEP 58.3 tb SEP 56 SEP 200 SEP 12 SEP SEP 5 SEP 41.7 tb SEP 53 SEP 200 SEP 12 SEP 10 SEP 83.3 tb SEP 66 SEP 200 SEP 12 SEP 7 SEP 58.3 tb Tolperisone SEP HC SEP 200 SEP 12 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Eperisone SEP HCl SEP 200 SEP 12 SEP 6 SEP 50.0 tb Table 2cEMI9.1 tb SEP Test SEP compd. SEP Test SEP 1 SEP Anti nicotine SEP activity tb Example SEP No. SEP Dose SEP Number SEP of SEP Number SEP of SEP Inhibition tb SEP mg kg,po SEP animals SEP surviviing SEP of SEP death tb SEP used SEP animals SEP tb SEP Control SEP SEP 12 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 85 SEP 200 SEP 12 SEP 8 SEP 66.7 tb SEP 92 SEP 200 SEP 12 SEP 9 SEP 75.0 tb SEP 93 SEP 200 SEP 12 SEP 7 SEP 58.3 tb SEP 95 SEP 200 SEP 12 SEP 2 SEP 16.7 tb SEP 89 SEP 200 SEP 12 SEP 8 SEP 66.7 tb SEP 96 SEP 200 SEP 12 SEP 5 SEP 41.7 tb SEP 98 SEP 200 SEP 12 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 99 SEP 200 SEP 12 SEP 3 SEP 25.0 tb SEP 100 SEP 200 SEP 12 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Tolperisone SEP HCl SEP 200 SEP 12 SEP 1 SEP 8.3 tb Eperisone SEP HCl SEP 200 SEP 12 SEP 6 SEP 50.0 tb Test 2 Anti tremorine activity Male mice of ddY strain, weighing 28 to 32 g, were used in groups of eight or ten. The test compounds were dissolved in distilled water and administered orally in a dose of 50 mg kg.After 30 minutes, treeorine dihydrochloride was subcutaneously administered in a dose of 20 mg kg. Then, the occurrence of tremor was observed after the lapse of 30 and 60 minutes. Inhibition of tremor 8 Number of animals exhibiting no tremor x 100 Number of animals used Table 3aEMI10.1 tb SEP Test SEP 2 SEP Anti tremorine SEP activity tb SEP Test SEP compd. SEP Number tb Example SEP No. SEP Dose SEP of SEP After SEP 30 SEP min. SEP After SEP 60 SEP min. tb SEP mg kg,po SEP animals tb SEP a SEP b SEP a SEP b tb SEP used tb SEP Control SEP 50 SEP 8 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 1 SEP 50 SEP 8 SEP 8 SEP 100 SEP 7 SEP 87.5 tb SEP 8 SEP 50 SEP 8 SEP 8 SEP 100 SEP 7 SEP 87.5 tb SEP 9 SEP 50 SEP 8 SEP 8 SEP 100 SEP 7 SEP 87.5 tb SEP 48 SEP 50 SEP 8 SEP 8 SEP 100 SEP 3 SEP 37.5 tb SEP 11 SEP 50 SEP 8 SEP 8 SEP 100 SEP 8 SEP 100.0 tb SEP 10 SEP 50 SEP 8 SEP 8 SEP 100 SEP 8 SEP 100.0 tb SEP 41 SEP 50 SEP 8 SEP 7 SEP 75 SEP 1 SEP 12.5 tb Tolperisone SEP HCl SEP 50 SEP 8 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Eperisone SEP HCl SEP 50 SEP 8 SEP 7 SEP 87.5 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb a Number of animals exhibiting no tremor b Inhibition of tremor z Table 3bEMI10.2 tb SEP Test SEP compd. SEP Test SEP 2 SEP Anti tremorine SEP activity tb SEP Number tb SEP Example SEP No. SEP Dose SEP After SEP 30 SEP min. SEP After SEP 60 SEP min. tb SEP of tb SEP mg kg,po SEP animals SEP a SEP b SEP a SEP b tb SEP used SEP tb SEP Control SEP SEP SEP 10 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 5 SEP 50 SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 10 SEP 100 tb SEP 37 SEP 50 SEP 10 SEP 8 SEP 80 SEP 8 SEP 80 tb SEP Tolperisone SEP HC SEP 50 SEP 10 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP Eperisone SEP HC1 SEP 50 SEP SEP SEP 10 SEP 8 SEP 80 SEP 1 SEP 10 tb a Number of animals exhibiting no tremor b Inhibition of tremor Table 3cEMI11.1 tb SEP Test SEP 2 SEP Anti tremorine SEP activity tb SEP Test SEP compd. SEP Number tb Example SEP No. SEP Dose SEP of SEP After SEP 30 SEP min. SEP After SEP 60 SEP min. tb SEP mg kg,po SEP animals tb SEP a SEP b SEP a SEP b tb SEP used tb Control SEP SEP 10 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 57 SEP 50 SEP 10 SEP 7 SEP 70 SEP 6 SEP 60 tb SEP 60 SEP 50 SEP 10 SEP 8 SEP 80 SEP 6 SEP 60 tb 61 SEP 50 SEP 10 SEP 9 SEP 90 SEP 8 SEP 80 tb SEP 56 SEP 50 SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 9 SEP 90 tb SEP 53 SEP 50 SEP 10 SEP 9 SEP 90 SEP 9 SEP 90 tb SEP 66 SEP 50 SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 9 SEP 90 tb SEP Tolperisone SEP HCl SEP 50 SEP 10 SEP 9 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP Eperisone SEP HCl SEP 50 SEP 10 SEP 8 SEP 80 SEP 1 SEP 10 tb a Number of animals exhibiting no tremor b Inhibition of tremor Table 3dEMI11.2 tb Test SEP compd. SEP Test SEP 2 SEP Anti tremorine SEP activity tb Example SEP No. SEP Dose SEP N SEP er SEP After SEP 30 SEP min SEP After SEP 60 SEP min. tb SEP of SEP tb SEP mg kg,po SEP animals SEP a SEP b SEP a SEP b tb SEP used tb SEP Control SEP SEP SEP 10 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 85 SEP 50 SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 10 SEP 100 tb SEP 92 SEP 50 SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 10 SEP 100 tb SEP 93 SEP 50 SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 10 SEP 100 tb SEP 95 SEP 50 SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 10 SEP 100 tb SEP 89 SEP 50 SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 10 SEP 100 tb SEP 96 SEP 50 SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 10 SEP 100 tb SEP 98 SEP 50 SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 9 SEP 90 tb SEP 99 SEP 50 SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 9 SEP 90 tb SEP 100 SEP 50 SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 10 SEP 100 tb Tolperisone SEP HCl SEP 50 SEP 10 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Eperisone SEP HC1 SEP 50 SEP 10 SEP 8 SEP 80 SEP 2 SEP 20 tb a Number of animals exhibiting no tremor b Inhibition of tremor Test 3 Muscle relaxant activity Male mice of ddY strain, weighing 30 to 37 g, were used in groups of ten. The test compounds were dissolved in physiological saline and administered intraperitoneally in a dose of 50 or 75 mg kg. The muscle relaxant activity was evaluated according to the method of Courvoisier et al. Psychotropic Drugs, ed. by Garattini, S. and Ghetti, V., Elsevier Pub. Co.,Amsterdam, 1957, p. 373 .This method involves a traction test in which the animal is hung by its forelimbs on a horizontal metal rod 2 mm in diameter placed 20 cm above the floor and examined as to whether it can put its hindlimb on the rod or not. Specifically, 15 minutes after administration of a test compound, the mouse was hung on the rod by its forelimbs.When the mouse.could not put its hindlimb on the rod within 5 seconds, the test compound was judged to be effective. It had been confirmed in preliminary tests that, under normal conditions, all the mice could put their hindlimb on the rod within 5 seconds. Muscle relaxation rate Number of animals exhibiting muscle relaxation X 100 Number of animals used Table 4 a EMI12.1 SEP Test SEP compd. SEP Test SEP 3 SEP Muscle SEP relaxant SEP activity tb SEP Number SEP of SEP Muscle tb Example SEP No. SEP Dose tb SEP animals SEP relaxation tb SEP mg kg,ip SEP exhibiting SEP rate tb SEP muscle SEP SEP SEP tb SEP relaxation tb 1 SEP 50 SEP 6 SEP 60 tb 8 SEP 50 SEP 7 SEP 70 tb 9 SEP 50 SEP 7 SEP 70 tb SEP Tolperisone SEP HC1 SEP 50 SEP 1 SEP 10 tb SEP Eperisone SEP HC1 SEP 50 SEP 2 SEP 20 tb Table 4bEMI13.1 SEP Test SEP compd. SEP Test SEP 3 SEP Muscle SEP relaxant SEP activity tb SEP Example SEP No. SEP Dose SEP Number SEP of SEP Muscle tb SEP animals tb SEP mg kg,ip SEP exhibiting SEP relaxation tb SEP muscle SEP rate tb SEP relaxation SEP tb 5 SEP 75 SEP 8 SEP 80 tb Tolperisone SEP HCl SEP 75 SEP 2 SEP 20 tb Eperisone SEP HCl SEP 75 SEP 4 SEP 40 tb Table 4cEMI13.2 tb Test SEP compd. SEP Test SEP 3 SEP Muscle SEP relaxant SEP activity tb Example SEP No. SEP Dose SEP Number SEP o SEP Muscle tb SEP animals SEP relaxation tb SEP mg kg,ip SEP exhibiting SEP rate tb SEP muscle tb SEP relaxation SEP tb SEP 57 SEP 75 SEP 3 SEP 30 tb SEP 60 SEP 75 SEP 4 SEP 40 tb SEP 61 SEP 75 SEP 4 SEP 40 tb SEP 56 SEP 75 SEP 7 SEP 70 tb SEP 53 SEP 75 SEP 7 SEP 70 tb SEP 66 SEP 75 SEP 7 SEP 70 tb Tolperisone SEP HC SEP 75 SEP 1 SEP 10 tb Eperisone SEP HC1 SEP 75 SEP 4 SEP 40 tb Table 4dEMI14.1 SEP Test SEP compd. SEP Test SEP 3 SEP Muscle SEP relaxant SEP activity tb SEP SEP tb SEP Example SEP No. SEP Dose SEP Number SEP of SEP Muscle tb SEP Dose SEP Muscle SEP tb SEP mg kg,ip SEP exhibiting SEP relaxation tb SEP relaxation tb 85 SEP 75 SEP 8 SEP 80 tb 92 SEP 75 SEP 6 SEP 60 tb 93 SEP 75 SEP 6 SEP 60 tb 89 SEP 75 SEP 5 SEP 50 tb 99 SEP 75 SEP 2 SEP 20 tb Tolperisone SEP HCl SEP 75 SEP 1 SEP 10 tb Eperisone SEP HC1 SEP 75 SEP 2 SEP 20 tb Test 4 Effect on decelebrate rigidity induced by transection between superior and inferior colliculi Male rats of Wistar strain, weighing 300 to 400 g, were used.The test compounds were dissolved in physiological saline and administered intravenously in doses of 10 mg kg and 20 mg kg. Rigidity preparations were made according tb the method ofFukuda et al. The Japanese Journal of Pharmacology, 22, 457 1972 . Specifically, after a rat was fixed in a prone position under ether anesthesia, an incision was made in the head. The skull was removed around the occipital region to expose the brain. Then, the dura mater was cut over the cerebellum and a transection between the superior and inferior colliculi of the mid brain was made with a spatula. More than 2 hours after operation, the rat was mounted in a supine position on a fixing stand. Thus, the effect of the test compounds was evaluated by using the occurrence of rigidity in the antigravity muscles of the limbs as an index. Results The test compound of Example No.1 relaxed the rigidity of the forelimbs and hindlimbs to a significant degree at a dose of 10 mg kg, and the test compounds ofExamples No.53, 57, 66, 85, 92 and 93 relaxed the rigidity similarly at a dose of 20 mg kg. Test 5 Acute toxicity Male mice of ddY strain, weighing 25 to 30 g, were used in groups of five. The test compounds were dissolved in distilled water and administered orally in various doses. These mice were observed for 7 days after administration. Then, the LD50 was calculated according to the method of Behrens and Karbar. Table 5aEMI15.1 tb Test SEP compd. SEP Test SEP 5 SEP Acute SEP toxicity tb Example SEP No. SEP LD50 SEP mg kg,po tb SEP 1 SEP 535 tb SEP 8 SEP 505 tb SEP 9 SEP 655 tb Tolperisone SEP HC1 SEP 625 tb Eperisone SEP HC1 SEP 595 Table 5bEMI15.2 tb SEP Test SEP compd. SEP Test SEP 5 SEP Acute SEP toxicity tb Example SEP No. SEP LD50 SEP mg kg,po tb SEP 57 SEP 625 tb SEP 53 SEP 565 tb SEP 66 SEP 625 tb Tolperisone SEP HCl SEP 655 tb Eperisone SEP HCl SEP 475 tb Table ScEMI15.3 tb Test SEP compd. SEP Test SEP 5 SEP Acute SEP toxicity tb Example SEP No. SEP LD50 SEP mg kg SEP ,po SEP tb SEP 85 SEP 625 tb SEP 92 SEP 685 tb SEP 93 SEP 685 tb Tolperisone SEP HC1 SEP 595 tb Eperisone SEP HC1 SEP 565 tb The pharmaceutical composition of the present invention is further illustrated with reference to several specific examples.However, these examples are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.Tablets Compound of Example No.l .................... 100 g Crystalline cellulose ................... 150 g Corn starch ............................... 142 g Lactose ....................................... 300 g Calcium carboxymethyl cellulose ............. 5 g Magnesium stearate ....................... 3 g Total 700 g The above ingredients are blended well by means of an ordinary mixer. Immediately after that, or after being formed into fine granules or granules, the blend is compressed to form a total of 5,000 tablets. Each tablet weighs 140 mg and contains 20 mg of Compound of Example No.l used as the active ingredient. If desired, these tablets may be made into sugarcoated or film coated tablets according to conventional procedure. Capsules Compound of Example No.53 .................... 50 g Powdered lactose ............................. 146 g Talc ....................................... 4 g Total 200 g The above ingredients are blended well and filled into a total of 1,000 capsules by means of a capsule filling machine.Each of the capsules so produced contains 50 mg of Compound of Example No.53 used as the active ingredient.Injections 10 g of Compound of Example No.85 is dissolved in 1,000 ml of distilled water for injections. Using a dispensing machine, 1 ml each of the solution is filled into a total of 1,000 ampules. Each of the ampules so produced contains 10 mg ofCompound of Example No.85 used as the active ingredient.Alternatively, a solution having the same concentration may be filled into vials with any desired capacity. The process for preparing the compounds of the present invention is more specifically illustrated by the following examples. For use as intermediates in these examples, several 4 cycloalkylphenone compounds, 3 ,4 methylenedioxyphenone compounds and 2,3 dihydro 5 benzofuranylketone compounds of formula IV were prepared according to the procedures described in the following reference examples.Reference Example 1 4 Cyclopropylpropiophenone EMI17.1 19.6 g of propionyl chloride and 28.6 g of aluminum chloride were dissolved in 200 ml of chloroform. While the resulting solution was being kept at a temperature of 55 to 500C, 25.0 g of cyclopropylbenzene was added dropwise thereto over a period of an hour. After completion of the addition, the stirring was continued for an additional 10 minutes. Thereafter, the reaction mixture was poured into 40 ml of concentrated hydrochloric acid containing 300 g of ice blocks, followed by vigorous stirring. The chloroform layer was isolated, washed with water and then dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate.The solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure to obtain an oily residue, which was distilled at 125 1280C under a reduced pressure of 5 mmHg to obtain 18.8 g 51 of 4 cyclopropylpropiophenone. NMR CDClg 6 ppm 0.63 1.16 4H,m , 1.18 3H,t , 1.67 2.20 lH,m , 2.92 2H,q , 7.05 2H,d , 7.78 2H,d Reference Example 2 4 CyclopentylpropiophenoneEMI17.2 21.3 g of aluminum chloride was suspended in 95 ml of carbon ,achloride. Under cooling with ice, 14.8 g of propionyl Chloride was added thereto and the mixture was stirred for 15 minutes. While the resulting solution was being kept at a reaction temperature of 50C or below, 20.0 g of cyclopentylbenzene was added dropwise thereto over a period of 3 hours.After completion of the addition, the stirring was continued for an additional hour. Thereafter, the reaction mixture was poured into 160 ml of concentrated hydrochloric acid containing 200 g of ice blocks, followed by vigorous stirring. The carbon tetrachloride layer was isolated, washed with water and then dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure to obtain an oily residue, which was distilled at 148 1500C under a reduced pressure of 5 mmHg to obtain 23.0 g 83 of 4 cyclopentylpropiophenone. NIER CDC13 6 ppm 0.90 2.30 8H,m , 1.18 3H,t , 2.50 3.33 lH,m , 2.93 2H,q , 7.27 2H,d , 7.80 2H,d Reference Example 3 4 Cyclopropyl 3 methylbutyrophenoneEMI18.1 31.1 g of aluminum chloride was suspended in 200 ml of methylene chloride. Under cooling with ice, 27.7 g of isovaleryl chloride was added thereto and the mixture was stirred for 15 minutes. While the resulting solution was being kept at a temperature of 65 to 700C, 27.2 g of cyclopropylbenzene was added dropwise thereto over a period of 25 minutes. After completion of the addition, the stirring was continued for an additional 35 minutes. Thereafter, the reaction mixture was poured into 45 ml of concentrated hydrochloric acid containing 300 g of ice blocks, followed by vigorous stirring.The resulting methylene chloride layer was isolated, washed with water and then dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure to obtain an oily residue, which was distilled under reduced pressure to obtain 27.9 g 60 of 4 cyclopropyl 3 methylbutyrophenone, B.P.144.0 146.00C at 4 mmHg. NMR CDCls 6 ppm 0.53 1.26 4H,m , 0.98 6H,d , 1.67 2.58 2H,m , 2,78 2H,d , 7.03 2H,d , 7.77 2H,d Reference Example 4 3 , 4 Methylenedioxybutyrophenone EMI19.1 28.1 g of 1,2 methylenedioxybenzene and 26.6 g of butyryl chloride were dissolved in 200 ml of methylene chloride.While the resulting solution was being kept at a temperature of 100C or below, 75.0 g of tin IV chloride was added dropwise thereto over a period of 30 minutes. After completion of the addition, the stirring was continued for an additional 10 minutes. Thereafter, the reaction mixture was poured into 150 ml of concentrated hydrochloric acid containing 200 g of ice blocks, followed by vigorous stirring. The methylene chloride layer was isolated, washed with water and then dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure to obtain a residue, which was recrystallized from hexane to obtain 33.1 g 75 of 3 ,4 methylenedioxybutyrophenone in the form of white crystals, M.P. 41.0 43.00C. NMR CDC13 6 ppm 1.00 3H,t , 1.73 2H,sextet , 2.83 2H,t , 5.97 2H,s , 6.76 1H,d , 7.38 1H,d , 7.50 1H,dd Reference Example 5 5 Propionyl 2,3 dihydrobenzofuranEMI19.2 18.4 g of 2,3 dihydrobenzofuran and 15.3 g of propionyl chloride were dissolved in 120 ml of methylene chloride. While the resulting solution was being kept at a temperature of 100C or below, 50.0 g of tin IV chloride was added dropwise thereto over a period of 30 minutes. After completion of the addition, the stirring was continued for an additional 10 minutes.Thereafter, the reaction mixture was poured into 100 ml of concentrated hydrochloric acid containing 200 g of ice blocks, followed by vigorous stirring. The methylene chloride layer was isolated, washed with water and then dried over anhydrous odium sulfate. The solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure to obtain a residue, which was recrystallized from hexane to obtain 20.5 g 76 of 5 propionyl 2,3 dihydrobenzofuran in the form of white crystals, M.P. 60.0 61.00C. NMR CDClg 6 ppm 1.18 3H,t , 2.88 2H,q , 3.15 2H,t , 4.58 2H,t , 6.69 lH,d , 7.58 7.88 2H,m By the application of the similar procedures as described in Reference Examples 1 5, 4 cycloalkylphenone compounds, 3 ,4 methylenedioxyphenone compounds or 2,3 dihydro 5benzofuranylketone compounds of Reference Examples 6 37 below were obtained. EMI21.1 Table 6 EMI21.2 Reference tb Example SEP No. SEP n SEP R SEP Boiling SEP point SEP or SEP Melting SEP point SEP NMR CDCl3 SEP SEP ppm tb SEP b.p. SEP m.p. tb SEP 6 SEP 2 SEP CH3CH3 SEP b.p. SEP 120 SEP SEP 125 C 3mmHg SEP 0.58 SEP SEP 1.22 4H, SEP m , SEP 1.00 3H, SEP t , SEP 1.45 2.22 tb SEP 3H, SEP m , SEP 288 2H, SEP t , SEP 7.05 2H, SEP d , SEP 7.80 tb SEP 2H, SEP d tb SEP 7 SEP 2 SEP CH2CH2CH3 SEP SEP 120 C 5mmHg SEP 0.45 SEP SEP 2.15 12H, SEP m , SEP 288 2H, SEP t , SEP 7.00 2H, tb SEP d , SEP 7.78 2H, SEP d tb SEP 8 SEP 2 SEP CH2 CH2 2CH3 SEP SEP 145 SEP SEP 158 C 4mmHg SEP 0.58 SEP SEP 2.18 14H, SEP m , SEP 2.90 2H, SEP t , SEP 7.07 2H, tb SEP d , SEP 7.82 2H, SEP d tb SEP 9 SEP 2 SEP CH2 CH2 3CH3 SEP SEP 140 C 3mmHg SEP 0.57 SEP SEP 2.20 16H, SEP m , SEP 2.88 2H, SEP t , SEP 7.03 SEP 2H, tb SEP d , SEP 7.80 2H, SEP d tb SEP 10 SEP 2 SEP CH2 CH2 4CH3 SEP m.p. SEP 41.5 SEP SEP 42.5 C SEP 0.57 SEP SEP 2.70 18H, SEP m , SEP 2.88 2H, SEP t , SEP 7.03 SEP 2H, tb SEP d , SEP 7.78 2H, SEP d tb SEP 11 SEP 4 SEP CH3CH3 SEP b.p. SEP 158 SEP SEP 160 C 5mmHg SEP 0.67 SEP SEP 2.40 10H, SEP m , SEP 0.98 3H, SEP t , SEP 2.50 SEP SEP 3.43 tb SEP 1H, SEP t , SEP 2.90 2H, SEP t , SEP 7.28 2H, SEP d , SEP 7.87 tb SEP 2H, SEP d tb SEP 12 SEP 5 SEP CH3 SEP m.p. SEP 50.0 SEP SEP 51.0 C SEP 0.62 SEP SEP 3.22 11H, SEP m , SEP 1.18 3H, SEP t , SEP 2.95 2H, tb SEP q , SEP 7.20 2H, SEP d , SEP 7.83 2H, SEP d tb SEP 13 SEP 5 SEP CH2CH3 SEP b.p. SEP 171 SEP SEP 175 C 6mmHg SEP 0.67 SEP SEP 3.10 13H, SEP m , SEP 0.98 3H, SEP t , SEP 2.88 2H, tb SEP t , SEP 7.24 2H, SEP d , SEP 7.87 2H, SEP d tb Table 6 continued EMI22.1 SEP 14 SEP 2 SEP CH2CH CH3 2 SEP b.p. SEP 155.0 160.0 C 5mmHg SEP 0.42 2.30 8H, SEP m , SEP 0.93 6H, SEP d , SEP 2.87 2H, SEP t , tb SEP 7.03 2H, SEP d SEP 7.78 2H, SEP d tb SEP 15 SEP 2 SEP SEP b.p. SEP 175.0 180.0 C 4mmHg SEP 0.53 2.67 14H, SEP m SEP 2.83 2H, SEP d , SEP 6.96 2H, SEP d , tb SEP 7.70 2H, SEP d tb SEP 16 SEP 2 SEP CH2 SEP b.p. SEP 180.0 200.0 C 4mmHg SEP 0.57 2.50 16H, SEP m , SEP 2.87 2H, SEP t , SEP 7.03 2H, SEP d , tb SEP 7.80 2H, SEP d tb SEP 17 SEP 2 SEP SEP b.p. SEP 147.0 148.0 C 1.5mmHg SEP 0.57 2.50 16H, SEP m , SEP 2.73 2H, SEP d , SEP 7.04 2H, SEP d , tb SEP 7.81 2H, SEP d tb Table 7 EMI23.1 EMI23.2 Reference SEP Boiling SEP point SEP or SEP Melting SEP point tb SEP R1 SEP NMR CDCl3 SEP SEP ppm tb Example SEP No. SEP b.p. SEP m.p. tb SEP 18 SEP CH3 SEP m.p. SEP 37.0 39.0 C SEP 1.17 3H, SEP t , SEP 2.88 2H, SEP q , SEP 5.97 2H, SEP s , SEP 6.75 tb SEP 1H, SEP d . SEP 7.34 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.47 1H, SEP dd tb SEP 19 SEP n C3H7 SEP b.p. SEP 130 C 5mmHg SEP 0.40 2.07 7H, SEP m SEP 2.85 3H,t , SEP 5.97 2H, SEP s tb SEP , SEP 6.76 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.37 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.50 1H, SEP dd tb SEP 20 SEP iso C3H7 SEP b.p. SEP 141 144 C 4mmHg SEP 0.98 6H, SEP d , SEP 1.90 2.57 1H, SEP m , SEP 2.73 2H, SEP d tb SEP , SEP 5.95 2H, SEP s , SEP 6.75 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.37 1H, SEP d , tb SEP 7.46 1H, SEP dd tb SEP 21 SEP n CF4H9 SEP m.p. SEP 40.0 41.0 C SEP 0.50 2.07 9H, SEP m , SEP 2.86 2H, SEP t , SEP 5.97 2H, SEP s tb SEP , SEP 6.78 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.37 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.51 1H, SEP dd tb SEP 22 SEP iso C4H9 SEP oil SEP 0.92 6H, SEP d , SEP 1.23 1.90 3H, SEP m , SEP 2.80 2H, SEP t tb SEP , SEP 5.93 2H, SEP s , SEP 6.70 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.30 1H, SEP d , tb SEP 7.45 1H, SEP dd tb SEP 23 SEP n C5H11 SEP m.p. SEP 44.0 45.0 C SEP 0.65 2.12 11H, SEP m , SEP 2.84 2H, SEP t , SEP 5.98 2H, tb SEP s , SEP 6.78 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.36 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.50 1H, SEP dd tb SEP tb SEP 24 SEP n C H15 SEP m.p. SEP 31.5 32.5 C SEP 0.60 2.10 13H, SEP m , SEP 2.88 2H, SEP t , SEP 6.00 2H, tb SEP s , SEP 6.80 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.38 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.52 1H, SEP dd tb SEP tb SEP 25 SEP SEP m.p. SEP 48.0 49.0 C SEP 0.65 2.62 9H, SEP m , SEP 2.87 2H, SEP d , SEP 5.97 2H, SEP s tb SEP , SEP 6.70 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.32 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.45 1H, SEP dd tb Table 7 continued EMI24.1 SEP 26 SEP CH2 SEP m.p. SEP 73 Cc SEP 0.63 2.30 11H, SEP m , SEP 2.85 2H, SEP t , SEP 5.95 2H, tb SEP s , SEP 6.73 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.32 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.45 1H, SEP dd tb SEP tb SEP 27 SEP SEP b.p. SEP 147.0 148.0 C 15.mmHg SEP 0.57 2.43 11H, SEP m , SEP 2.73 2H, SEP d , SEP 6.00 2H, tb SEP s , SEP 6.77 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.40 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.49 1H, SEP dd tb SEP tb EMI25.1 Table 8 EMI25.2 Reference SEP Boiling SEP point b.p. SEP or tb Example SEP No. SEP R SEP Melting SEP point m.p. SEP NMR CDCl5 SEP ppm tb SEP 28 SEP C2H5 SEP m.p. SEP 42.0 C SEP 0.95 3H, SEP t . SEP 168 2H, SEP sextat , SEP 2.75 2H, SEP t , SEP 3.12 2H, SEP t , SEP 4.53 2H, SEP t , tb SEP 6.62 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.42 7.85 2H, SEP m tb SEP 29 SEP n C3H7 SEP b.p. SEP 134.0 140.0 C 1mmHg SEP 0.67 2.00 7H, SEP m , SEP 2.83 2H, SEP t , SEP 3.17 2H, SEP t , SEP 4.58 2H, SEP t , SEP 6.68 1H, SEP d , tb SEP 7.57 7.90 2H, SEP m tb SEP 30 SEP Iso C3H7 SEP m.p. SEP 72.5 73.5 C SEP 0.99 6H, SEP d , SEP 1.77 2.67 1H, SEP m , SEP 2,73 2H, SEP d , SEP 3.17 2H, SEP t , SEP 4.60 2H, SEP t , tb SEP 6.73 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.63 7.97 2H, SEP m tb SEP 31 SEP n C4H9 SEP b.p. SEP 144.0 146.0 C 4mmHg SEP 0.70 2.13 9H, SEP m , SEP 2.87 2H, SEP t , SEP 3.20 2H, SEP t , SEP 4.62 2H, SEP t , SEP 6.74 1H, SEP d , tb SEP 7.67 8.03 2H, SEP m tb SEP 32 SEP Iso C4H9 SEP m.p. SEP 36.0 C SEP 0.92 6H, SEP d , SEP 1.17 1.83 3H, SEP m , SEP 2.77 2H, SEP t , SEP 3.13 2H, SEP t , SEP 4.53 2H, SEP t , tb SEP 6.63 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.53 7.87 2H, SEP m tb SEP 33 SEP n C5H11 SEP oil SEP 0.63 2.03 11H, SEP m , SEP 2.85 2H, SEP t , SEP 3.18 2H, SEP t , SEP 4.60 2H, SEP t , SEP 6.72 1H, SEP d , tb SEP 7.63 8.00 2H, SEP m tb SEP 34 SEP n C6H13 SEP m.p. SEP 39.0 C SEP 0.53 2.03 13H, SEP m , SEP 2.88 2H, SEP t , SEP 3.22 2H, SEP t , SEP 4.62 2H, SEP t , SEP 6.73 1H, SEP d , tb SEP 7.63 7.97 2H, SEP m tb SEP 35 SEP SEP m.p. SEP 84.0 C SEP 0.65 2.65 9H, SEP m , SEP 2.88 2H, SEP d , SEP 3.22 2H, SEP t , SEP 4.62 2H, SEP t , SEP 6.74 1H, SEP d , tb SEP 7.63 7.95 2H, SEP m tb SEP 36 SEP CH2 SEP m.p. SEP 62.0 C SEP 0.63 2.20 11H, SEP m , SEP 2.88 2H, SEP t , SEP 3.20 2H, SEP t , SEP 4.60 2H, SEP t , SEP 6.79 1H, SEP d , tb SEP 7.63 7.97 2H, SEP m tb SEP 37 SEP SEP m.p. SEP 87.0 88.0 C SEP 0.38 2.42 11H, SEP m , SEP 2.70 2H, SEP d , SEP 3.17 2H, SEP t , SEP 4.58 2H, SEP t , SEP 6.71 1H, SEP d , tb SEP 7.60 7.95 2H, SEP m tb Example 1 1 4 Cyclopropylphenyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino1 propanone hydrochlorideEMI26.1 2.94 g of the 4 cyclopropylpropiophenone prepared inReference Example 1, 0.66 g of paraformaldehyde, 2.46 g of piperidine hydrochloride and one drop of concentrated hydrochloric acid were added to 1.5 ml of isopropanol and the resulting reaction mixture was heated under reflux for 2.5 hours.After the reaction mixture was allowed to cool, 50 ml of chloroform was added thereto and the resulting mixture was washed three times with 30 ml portions of a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride. After the chloroform layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, the solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure to obtain a residue, which was recrystallized from a solvent mixture of isopropanol and ethyl ether to obtain 4.20 g 81 of l 4 cyclopropylphenyl 2methyl 3 piperidino l propanone hydrochloride in the form of white crystals, M.P. 174.5 175.50C dec. . IR KBr cm1 2950, 2930, 2870, 2800 2150, 1670, 1600 NMR CDC19 6 ppm 0.66 4.19 17H,m , 1.32 3H,d , 4.19 4.92 lH,m , 7.12 2H,d , 7.97 2H,d , 11.96 lH,br Elemental analysis for C H2 NO HC1 C H N Calcd. 70.22 8.51 4.55 Found 69.96 8.58 4.45Example 2 1 4 Cyclopropylphenyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino l propanone EMI26.2 2.00 g of the l 4 cyclopropylphenyl 2 methyl 3 piperidinol propanone hydrochloride obtained in Example 1 was dissolved in 30 ml of water and the resulting solution was alkalified with a 20 aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide. The oily material so separated was extracted with ethyl ether and washed three times with a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride.The ether layer was isolated, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then distilled under reduced pressure to remove the solvent. The resulting oily residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography using an eluent composed of chloroform and ethanol 20 1 5 to obtain 1.68 g 95 of 1 4 cyclopropylphenyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino l propanone in the form of an oily material. IR Neat cm1 3070, 3000, 2930, 2850, 2830, 1675, 1600 NMR CDC13 6 ppm 0.57 3.00 17H,m , 1.13 3H,d , 3.67 1H, sextet , 7.08 2H,d , 7.83 2H,d Example 3 1 4 Cyclopropylphenyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino 1 propanone nitrateEMI27.1 1.00 g of the 1 4 cyclopropylenyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino l propanone obtained in Example 2 was dissolved in 10 ml of methanol and the resulting solution was acidified with 30 nitric acid. Then, the solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure to obtain a residue, to which ethyl ether was added. The resulting mixture was stirred vigorously.The crystals so precipitated were collected by filtration and recrystallized from a solvent mixture of isopropanol and ethyl ether to obtain 0.99 g 80 of l 4 cyclopropylphenyl 2methyl 3 piperidino l propanone nitrate, M.P. 130 13200 dec. . IR KBr cm1 3000, 2940, 2860, 2800 2200, 1670, 1600, 1385 NMR CDC13 6 ppm 0.62 4.65 18H,m , 1.28 3H,d , 7.14 2H, d , 7.90 2H,d , 10.70 1H,br Elemental analysis for C18H2 NOHNO3 C H N Calcd. 64.65 7.84 8.38 Found 8 64.57 7.90 8.44 Example 4 1 4 Cyclopropylphenyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino 1 propanone succinateEMI28.1 1.00 g of the l 4 cyclopropylphenyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino l propanone obtained in Example 2 was dissolved in 10 ml of methanol. To the resulting solution was added a solution of 0.44 g of succinic acid in 5 ml of methanol. After vigorous stirring, the solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure to obtain a residue, to which a small amount of acetone was added.This residue crystallized upon standing. The crystals so formed were collected by filtration and recrystallized from a solvent mixture of acetone and ethyl ether to obtain 1.01 g 70 of 1 4 cyclopropylphenyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino 1 propanone succinate, M.P. 83 850 C. IR KBr cm 1 2960, 2940, 2860, 2800 2200, 1710, 1670, 1640, 1600 NMR CDCl3 6 ppm 0.47 2.20 11H,m , 1.23 3H,d , 2.48 4H, s , 2.67 4.50 7H,m , 7.13 1H,d , 7.88 2H,d , 13.48 2H,br Elemental analysis for C18H25NO.C4H6O4 C H N Calcd. 67.84 8.02 3.60 Found 67.99 8.10 3.67Example 5 1 4 Cyclopropylphenyl 2 isppropyl 3 piperidino l propanone hydrochlorideEMI28.2 6.0 g of the 4 cyclopropyl 3 methylbutyrophenone prepared in Reference Example 3, 1.2 g of paraformaldehyde, 4.4 g of piperidine hydrochloride and 0.2 ml of concentrated hydrochloric acid were added to 4 ml of isopropanol and the resulting reaction mixfrare was heated under reflux for 7 hours.After the reaction mixture was allowed to cool, it was dissolved in 50 ml of water and the resulting solution was washed twice with ethyl ether. Then a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride was added to the aqueous layer, which was extracted with chloroform. This procedure was repeated twice more.The chloroform layer was washed twice with a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride and then dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure to obtain a residue, which was recrystallized from a solvent mixture of isopropanol and tetrahydrofuran to obtain 5.3 g 53 of 1 4 cyclopropylphenyl 2 isopropyl 3 piperi dino l propanone hydrochloride in the form of white crystals,M.P. 180.0 180.50C. IR KBr cm 2970, 2950, 2910, 2890, 2800 2000, 1680, 1600 NMR CDC13 6 ppm 0.53 4.13 18H,m , 0. 80 3H,d , 1.16 3H, d , 4.27 4.77 lH,m , 7.13 2H,d , 7.97 2H,d , 12.03 1H,br Elemental analysis for C20H29NO HCl C H N Cacld. 71.51 9.00 4.17 Found 71.68 8.90 4.22Example 6 1 4 Cyclopropylphenyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino l propanone hydrochloride isomer EMI29.1 a 1 4 Cyclopropylphenyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino l propanone N acetyl D a phenylglycinate 22.3 g of 1 4 cyclopropylphenyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino l propanone hydrochloride prepared according to the procedure of Example 1 was dissolved in 300 ml of water and the resulting solution was alkalified with a 10 aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide, followed by vigorous stirring. The oily material so separated was extracted three times with 100 ml portions of benzene. The benzene layer was washed with water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then distilled under reduced pressure to remove the solvent. The resulting oily residue was dissolved in 100 ml of acetone, and 14.0 g of N acetyl D alpha phenylglycine was added thereto and dissolved therein by ie application of heat. After the sulution was allowed to cool, the solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure and the resulting oily residue was crystallized with ethyl acetate.The crystals so formed were recrystallized three times from ethyl acetate to obtain 8.5 g of l 4 cyclopropylphenyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino 1 propanone N acetyl D alpha phenylgly cinate, ta 2D3 45.30 C 1, methanol , M.P. 104.0 105.0 C. IR KBr cm 3260, 3080, 2960, 2940, 2800 2000, 1670, 1610, 1550 NMR CDC13 6 ppm 0.58 2.32 11H,m , 1.03 3H,d , 2.02 3H, s , 2.42 4.25 7H,m , 5.33 1H,d , 6.92 7.98 10H,m , 13.75 lH,br Elemental analysis for C28H36N2O4 C H N Calcd. 72.39 7.81 6.03 Found 72.43 7.77 6.16 b 1 4 Cyclopropylphenyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino l propanone hydrochloride 5.0 g of the 1 4 cyclopropylphenyl 2 methyl 3 piperi dino l propanone N acetyl D a phenylglycinate obtained in a was dissolved in 50 ml of water and the resulting solution was alkalified with a 10 aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide.The oily material so separated was extracted three times with 50 ml portions of benzene. The benzene layer was washed with water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then concentrated under reduced pressure to a volume of about 50 ml This solution was acidified by the addition of benzene saturated with hydrogen chloride and then distilled under reduced pressure to remove the solvent. The resulting solid residue was recrystallized from tetrahydrofuran to obtain 2.2 g of l 4 cyclopropylphenyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino 1 propanone hydrochloride, a 23 41.2 C 1, methanol , M.P. 170.5 171.5 C. IR KBr cm 1 2940, 2860, 2800 2200, 1675, 1600 NMR CDC13 ppm 0.57 4.12 17H,m , 1.28 3H,d , 4.22 4.92 1H,m , 7.09 2H,d , 7.91 2H,d , 12.04 1H,br Elemental analysis for C18H25NO.HCl C H N Calcd. 70.22 8.51 4.55 Found 70.16 8.49 4.61 Example 7 1 4 Cyclopropylphenyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino 1 propanone hydrochloride isomer EMI31.1 a 1 4 Cyclopropylphenyl 2 methy 3 piperidino lpropanone N acetyl L a phenylglycinate The crystallization and recrystallization mother liquors obtained in Example 6 a were combined and concentrated under reduced pressure.The resulting residue was dissolved in 300 ml of water and this solution was alkalified with a 10 aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide. The oily material so separated was extracted three times with 150 ml portions of benzene.The benzene layer was washed with water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then distilled under reduced pressure to remove the solvent. Thus, there was obtained 11.4 g of an oily material containing a large amount of the isomer.This oily material was dissolved in 50 ml of acetone, and 8.1 g of N acetyl L a phenylglycine was added thereto and dissolved therein by the application of heat. After the solution was allowed to cool, the solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure and the resulting solid residue was recrystallized three times from ethyl acetate to obtain 5.9 g of l 4 cyclopropylphenyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino 1 propanone N acetyl L a phenylglycinate7 al 2D3 46.80 C 1, methanol ,M.P. 102.5 103.5 C. IR KBr cm l 3250, 3060, 2950, 2930, 2800 2000, 1665, 1600, 1540 NMR CDC13 6 ppm 0.58 2.25 11H,m , l.02 3H,d , 2.02 3H, s , 2.35 4.22 7H,m , 5.27 1H,d , 6.88 7.92 10H,m , 13.55 1H,br Elemental analysis for C2BH36N204 C H N Calcd. 72.39 7.81 6.03 Found 72.44 7.86 5.90 b 1 4 Cyclopropylphenyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino 1propanone hydrochloride 2.0 g of the 1 4 cyclopropylphenyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino l propanone N acetyl L a phenyl glycinate obtained in a was dissolved in 30 ml of water and the resulting solution was alkalified with a 10 aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide.The oily material so separated was extracted three times with 20 ml portions of benzene. The benzene layer was washed with water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then concentrated under reduced pressure to a volume of about 30 ml.This solution was acidified by the addition of benzene saturated with hydrogen chloride and then distilled under reduced pressure to remove the solvent. The resulting solid residue was recrystallized from tetrahydrofuran to obtain 1.0 g l 4 cyclopropylphenyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino 1 propanone hydrochloride, aJ2D 41.5 C 1, methanol , M.P. 170.5 171.50C. IR KBr cm l 2940, 2860, 2800 2200, 1675, 1600 NMR CDC13 ppm 0.57 4.13 17H,m , 1.29 3H,d , 4.20 4.93 1H,m , 7.13 2H,d , 7.93 2H,d , 12.05 1H,br Elemental analysis for C18H25NO.HCl C H N Calcd. 70.22 8.51 4.55 Found 70.29 8.43 4.59 By the application of the similar procedure as described in Example 1, the compounds of Examples 8 40 below were obtained. EMI33.1 Table 9 EMI33.2 SEP Melting SEP point SEP Elemental SEP analysis tb SEP C SEP Molecular SEP upper SEP row SEP Calcd. tb Example SEP R SEP A SEP IR KBr SEP cm 1 SEP NMR CDCl3 SEP SEP ppm tb No. SEP formula SEP lower SEP row SEP Found tb SEP Recrysta. tb SEP solvent tb SEP C SEP SEP H SEP SEP N SEP tb SEP 8 SEP CH3 SEP N SEP 145.8 SEP SEP 146.5 SEP 2980, SEP 2930 SEP 0.62 4.08 15H,m , SEP 1.29 SEP C17H23NO.HCl SEP 69.49 SEP 8.23 SEP 4.77 tb SEP isopropanol SEP 2880, SEP 2700 SEP 3H,d , SEP 4.25 4.85 1H, SEP m , SEP 69.52 SEP 8.28 SEP 4.68 tb SEP ethylether SEP 2100, SEP 1670, SEP 7,13 2H,d , SEP 7.97 2H, SEP d , tb SEP 1600 SEP 12.33 1H,br tb SEP 9 SEP SEP N SEP 173.0 SEP SEP 174.0 SEP 2960, SEP 2940, SEP 0.68 4.25 19H, SEP m , SEP 1.33 SEP C18H27NO.HCl SEP 70.90 SEP 8.77 SEP 4.35 tb SEP dec. SEP 2870, SEP 2800 SEP 3H,d , SEP 4.28 4.88 1H, SEP m , SEP 70.88 SEP 8.69 SEP 4.28 tb SEP isopropanol SEP 2200, SEP 1670, SEP 7.13 2H,d , SEP 7.97 2H, SEP d , tb SEP 1600 SEP 12.27 1H,br tb SEP 10 SEP C2H5 SEP N SEP 147.0 SEP SEP 149.0 SEP 2950, SEP 2880, SEP 0.70 4.13 17H, SEP m , SEP 0.92 SEP C18H25NO.HCl SEP 70.22 SEP 8.51 SEP 4.55 tb SEP 2800 2200, SEP 3H, SEP t , SEP 4.33 4.83 1H, SEP m , SEP 70.19 SEP 8.60 SEP 4.39 tb SEP tetrahydrofuran SEP 1675, SEP 1605 SEP 7.18 2H, SEP d , SEP 8.03 2H, SEP d , tb SEP 12.43 1H,br tb SEP 11 SEP SEP N SEP 152.0 SEP SEP 155.0 SEP 2950, SEP 2920, SEP 0.67 4.13 19H, SEP m , SEP 0.92 SEP C19H27NO.HCl SEP 70.90 SEP 8.77 SEP 4.35 tb SEP 2860, SEP 2800 SEP 3H, SEP 1 , SEP 4.30 4.80 1H, SEP m , SEP 70.75 SEP 8.73 SEP 4.40 tb SEP tetrahydrofuran SEP 2200, SEP 1660, SEP 7.15 2H, SEP d , SEP 7.99 2H, SEP d , tb SEP 1600 SEP 12.07 1H,br tb SEP 12 SEP SEP N SEP 160.0 SEP SEP 161.0 SEP 2960, SEP 2930, SEP 0.67 4.27 21H, SEP m , SEP 0.92 SEP C20H29NO.HCl SEP 71.51 SEP 9.00 SEP 4.17 tb SEP acetone SEP 2850, SEP 2800 SEP 3H, SEP t , SEP 4.30 4.83 1H, SEP m , SEP 71.46 SEP 8.93 SEP 4.29 tb SEP 2200, SEP 1860, SEP 7.17 2H, SEP d , SEP 8.00 2H, SEP d , tb SEP 1600 SEP 12.10 1H, SEP br tb Table 9 continued EMI34.1 SEP 13 SEP n C5H7 SEP N SEP 170.0 SEP SEP 172.0 SEP 2950, SEP 2920, SEP 0.67 4.13 22H, SEP m , SEP 4.33 SEP C10H27NO.HCl SEP 70.90 SEP 8.77 SEP 4.35 tb SEP dec. SEP 2860, SEP 2750 SEP 4.87 1H, SEP m , SEP 7.17 2H, SEP d , SEP 71.01 SEP 8.63 SEP 4.33 tb SEP tetrahydrofuran SEP 2200, SEP 1660, SEP 8.04 2H,d , SEP 12.47 1H, tb SEP 1600 SEP br tb SEP 14 SEP SEP N SEP 166.0 SEP SEP 168.0 SEP 2960, SEP 2930, SEP 0.67 4.10 24H, SEP m , SEP 4.30 SEP C20H20NO.HCl SEP 71.51 SEP 9.00 SEP 4.17 tb SEP dec. SEP 2860, SEP 2800 SEP 4.83 1H, SEP m , SEP 7.13 2H, SEP d , SEP 71.43 SEP 9.02 SEP 4.20 tb SEP 2300, SEP 1665, SEP 7.97 2H, SEP d , SEP 12.20 1H, tb SEP 1595 SEP br tb SEP 15 SEP SEP N SEP 165.0 SEP SEP 166.0 SEP 2960, SEP 2930, SEP 0.68 4.28 26H, SEP m , SEP 4.32 SEP C31H31NO.HCl SEP 72.08 SEP 9.22 SEP 4.00 tb SEP dec. SEP 2870, SEP 2800 SEP 4.88 1H, SEP m , SEP 7.15 2H, SEP d , SEP 71.96 SEP 9.16 SEP 4.21 tb SEP SEP 2300, SEP 1665, SEP 8.00 2H, SEP d , SEP 12.18 1H, tb SEP 1595 SEP br tb SEP 16 SEP n C4H9 SEP N SEP 154.5 SEP SEP 155.5 SEP 2960, SEP 2940, SEP 0.63 4.13 24H, SEP m , SEP 4.33 SEP C20H20NO.HCl SEP 71.51 SEP 9.00 SEP 4.17 tb SEP SEP 2880, SEP 2800 SEP 4.87 1H, SEP m , SEP 7.20 2H, SEP d , SEP 71.69 SEP 9.13 SEP 4.23 tb SEP 2200, SEP 1670, SEP 8.07 2H, SEP d , SEP 12.47 1H, tb SEP 1605 SEP br tb SEP 17 SEP SEP N SEP 165.0 SEP SEP 166.0 SEP 2960, SEP 2930, SEP 0.60 4.20 26H, SEP m , SEP 4.30 SEP C21H31NO.HCl SEP 72.08 SEP 9.22 SEP 4.00 tb SEP SEP 2870, SEP 2800 SEP 4.87 1H, SEP m , SEP 7.17 2H, SEP d , SEP 72.00 SEP 9.40 SEP 3.93 tb SEP 2300, SEP 1665, SEP 8.00 2H, SEP d , SEP 12.10 1H, tb SEP 1600 SEP br SEP tb SEP 18 SEP n C5H11 SEP N SEP 144.0 SEP SEP 145.0 SEP 2960, SEP 2930, SEP 0.57 4.13 26H, SEP m , SEP 4.30 SEP C21H31NO.HCl SEP 72.08 SEP 9.22 SEP 4.00 tb SEP SEP 2850, SEP 2800 SEP 4.83 1H, SEP m , SEP 7.18 2H, SEP d , SEP 72.14 SEP 9.37 SEP 4.25 tb SEP 2300, SEP 1670, SEP 8.05 2H, SEP d , SEP 12.48 1H, tb SEP 1600 SEP br tb SEP 19 SEP SEP N SEP 154.0 SEP SEP 155.0 SEP 2950, SEP 2920, SEP 0.60 4.13 28H, SEP m , SEP 4.30 SEP C22H99NO.HCl SEP 72.60 SEP 9.42 SEP 3.85 tb SEP SEP 2850, SEP 2800 SEP 4.90 1H, SEP m , SEP 7.17 2H, SEP d , SEP 72.59 SEP 9.38 SEP 3.72 tb SEP 2300, SEP 1660, SEP 8.03 2H, SEP d , SEP 12.10 1H, tb SEP 1595 SEP br tb Table 9 continued EMI35.1 SEP 20 SEP n C6H13 SEP N SEP 109.0 SEP SEP 110.5 SEP 2960, SEP 2930, SEP 0.57 4.10 28H, SEP m , SEP 4.30 SEP C22H99NO.HCl SEP 72.60 SEP 9.42 SEP 3.85 tb SEP tetrahydrofuran SEP 2850, SEP 2750 SEP 4.80 1H, SEP m , SEP 7.13 2H, SEP 72.72 SEP 9.45 SEP 3.74 tb SEP iospropylether SEP 2200, SEP 1670, SEP d , SEP 8.02 2H, SEP d , SEP 12.47 tb SEP 1600 SEP 1H, SEP br tb SEP 21 SEP SEP N SEP 128.0 SEP SEP 129.0 SEP 2960, SEP 2930, SEP 0.53 4.13 30H, SEP m , SEP 4.30 SEP C29H95NO.HCl SEP 73.08 SEP 9.60 SEP 3.71 tb SEP SEP 2860, SEP 2800 SEP 4.87 1H, SEP m , SEP 7.15 2H, SEP 72.94 SEP 9.54 SEP 3.66 tb SEP 2300, SEP 1670, SEP d , SEP 7.98 2H, SEP d , SEP 12.13 tb SEP 1600 SEP 1H, SEP br tb SEP 22 SEP CH3 SEP N SEP 167.0 SEP SEP 168.0 SEP 2920, SEP 2850, SEP 0.48 2.42 15H, SEP m , SEP 1.30 SEP C20H29NO.HCl SEP 71.51 SEP 9.00 SEP 4.17 tb SEP dec. SEP 2800 2200, SEP 3H, SEP d , SEP 2.45 4.25 6H, SEP 71.64 SEP 8.96 SEP 4.20 tb SEP isopropanol SEP 1665, SEP 1600 SEP m , SEP 4.28 4.95 1H, SEP m , tb SEP 7.15 2H, SEP d , SEP 7.98 2H, SEP d tb SEP , SEP 12.05 1H, SEP br tb SEP 23 SEP CH2CH3 SEP N SEP 156.0 SEP SEP 158.0 SEP 2960, SEP 2930, SEP 0.47 5.07 24H, SEP m , SEP 0.92 SEP C21H91NO.HCl SEP 72.08 SEP 9.22 SEP 4.00 tb SEP SEP 2870, SEP 2860 SEP 3H, SEP t , SEP 7.15 2H, SEP d , SEP 71.96 SEP 9.31 SEP 4.13 tb SEP 2800, SEP 2200, SEP 8.00 2H, SEP d , SEP 11.97 1H, tb SEP 1670, SEP 1610 SEP br tb SEP 24 SEP CH3 SEP N CH3 SEP 184.0 SEP SEP 185.0 SEP 2940, SEP 2900, SEP 0.67 3.93 19H, SEP m , SEP 1.23 SEP C10H27NO.HCl SEP 70.90 SEP 8.77 SEP 4.35 tb SEP dec. SEP SEP 2860, SEP 2750 SEP 3H, SEP d , SEP 4.27 4.83 1H, SEP 70.87 SEP 8.69 SEP 4.41 tb SEP SEP 2200, SEP 1665, SEP m , SEP 7.05 2H, SEP d , SEP 7.87 2 tb SEP 1600 SEP H, SEP d , SEP 12.26 1H, SEP br tb SEP 25 SEP SEP N SEP 190.5 SEP SEP 191.0 SEP 2960, SEP 2940, SEP 0.57 4.14 16H, SEP m , SEP 0.79 SEP C19H27NO.HCl SEP 70.90 SEP 8.77 SEP 4.35 tb SEP dec. SEP 2870, SEP 2800 SEP 3H, SEP d , SEP 1.30 3H, SEP d , SEP 70.79 SEP 8.74 SEP 4.38 tb SEP SEP 2200, SEP 1670, SEP 4.24 4.88 1H, SEP m , SEP 7.10 tb SEP 1600 SEP 2H, SEP d , SEP 7.93 2H, SEP d , SEP 12. tb SEP 11 1H, SEP br tb SEP 26 SEP CH3 SEP N SEP 189.0 SEP SEP 19.00 SEP 2950, SEP 2930, SEP 0.56 4.12 21H, SEP m , SEP C20H29NO.HCl SEP 71.51 SEP 9.00 SEP 4.17 tb SEP dec. SEP 2870, SEP 2800 SEP 1.29 3H, SEP d , SEP 4.29 SEP 71.48 SEP 8.87 SEP 4.02 tb SEP SEP 2200, SEP 1670, SEP 4.92 1H, SEP m , SEP 7.13 tb SEP 1600 SEP 2H, SEP d0, SEP 7.96 2H, SEP d tb SEP , SEP 12.22 1H, SEP br tb Table 9 continued EMI36.1 SEP 27 SEP SEP N SEP 179.0 SEP SEP 181.0 SEP 2940, SEP 2880, SEP 0.67 4.29 16H, SEP m , SEP C31H20NO.HCl SEP 75.08 SEP 7.88 SEP 3.65 tb SEP dec. SEP 2800 2200, SEP 4.33 4.90 1H, SEP m , SEP 75.18 SEP 7.65 SEP 3.56 tb SEP SEP 1690, SEP 1610, SEP 7.13 2H, SEP d , SEP 7.20 tb SEP 5H, SEP s , SEP 7.98 2H, SEP d tb SEP , SEP 12.40 1H, SEP br tb SEP 28 SEP SEP N CH2 SEP 178.0 SEP SEP 180.0 SEP 2950, SEP 2920, SEP 0.67 4.07 18H, SEP m , SEP C25H31NO.HCl SEP 75.45 SEP 8.11 SEP 3.52 tb SEP dec. SEP 2800 2200, SEP 1.27 3H, SEP d , SEP 4.27 SEP 75.39 SEP 8.04 SEP 3.46 tb SEP SEP 1665, SEP 1605 SEP 4.87 1H, SEP m , SEP 6.87 SEP 7.40 7H, SEP m , SEP 7.95 tb SEP 2H, SEP d , SEP 12.23 1H, tb SEP br tb SEP 29 SEP SEP N OH SEP 140.0 SEP SEP 142.0 SEP 3260, SEP 2970, SEP 0.67 4.70 18H, SEP m , SEP C18H25NO3.HCl SEP 66.76 SEP 8.09 SEP 4.33 tb SEP tetrahydrofuran SEP 2920, SEP 2880, SEP 1.27 3H, SEP d , SEP 7.13 SEP 66.85 SEP 8.01 SEP 4.42 tb SEP 2750 2200, SEP 2H, SEP d , SEP 7.92 2H, SEP d tb SEP 1670, SEP 1600 SEP , SEP 12.37 1H, SEP br tb SEP 30 SEP SEP N CO2C2H5 SEP 164.0 SEP SEP 168.0 SEP 2980, SEP 2940, SEP 0.63 4.30 19H, SEP m , SEP C21H29NO3.HCl SEP 66.39 SEP 7.96 SEP 3.69 tb SEP isopropanol SEP 2800 2200, SEP 1.22 3H, SEP d , SEP 1.27 SEP 66.45 SEP 7.86 SEP 3.57 tb SEP 1720, SEP 1670, SEP 3H, SEP t , SEP 7.14 2H, SEP d tb SEP 1600 SEP , SEP 7.97 2H, SEP d , SEP 12. tb SEP 03 1H, SEP br tb SEP tb SEP 31 SEP CH3 SEP N CO2H SEP 172.0 SEP SEP 174.0 SEP 2940, SEP 2870, SEP 0.62 1.45 4H, SEP m , SEP C10H25NO3.HCl SEP 64.86 SEP 7.45 SEP 3.98 tb SEP SEP 2750 2200, SEP 1.26 3H, SEP d , SEP 1.52 SEP 64.95 SEP 7.49 SEP 3.84 tb SEP 1725, SEP 1660, SEP 4.05 12H, SEP m , SEP 4.15 tb SEP 1600 SEP 4.72 1H, SEP m , SEP 7.17 tb SEP 2H, SEP d , SEP 7.95 2H, tb SEP d , SEP 11.15 2H, SEP br tb Table 9 continued EMI37.1 SEP 32 SEP CH CH3 2 SEP N SEP 189.5 SEP SEP 190.5 SEP 2970, SEP 2900, SEP 0.47 1.33 4H, SEP m SEP C10H27NO.HCl SEP 70.90 SEP 8.77 SEP 4.35 tb SEP dec. SEP 2880, SEP 2800 SEP 0,84 3H, SEP d , SEP 1.09 SEP 70.85 SEP 8.90 SEP 4.28 tb SEP isopropanol SEP 2000, SEP 1675, SEP 3H, SEP d , SEP 1.63 4.13 tb SEP tetrahydrofuran SEP 1600 SEP 12H, SEP m , SEP 4.27 4.73 tb SEP 1H, SEP m , SEP 7.15 2H, tb SEP n , SEP 8.02 2H, SEP d , SEP 12. tb SEP 30 1H, SEP br tb SEP 33 SEP CH CH3 2 SEP N SEP 141.0 SEP SEP 142.0 SEP 2960, SEP 2940, SEP 0.50 4.23 20H, SEP m , SEP C21H31NO.HCl SEP 72.08 SEP 9.22 SEP 4.00 tb SEP trtrahydrofuran. SEP 2880, SEP 2800 SEP 0.81 3H, SEP d , SEP 1.12 SEP 71.97 SEP 9.15 SEP 4.13 tb SEP ethylether SEP 2200, SEP 1665, SEP 3H, SEP d , SEP 4.33 4.77 tb SEP 1600 SEP 1H, SEP m , SEP 7.14 2H, SEP d tb SEP , SEP 7.98 2H, SEP d , SEP 12. tb SEP 17 1H, SEP br tb SEP 34 SEP CH2CH CH3 2 SEP N SEP 170.0 SEP SEP 171.0 SEP 2950, SEP 2890, SEP 0.43 4.20 18H, SEP m , SEP C20H2NO.HCl SEP 71.51 SEP 9.00 SEP 4.17 tb SEP tetrahydrofuran SEP 2750 2000, SEP 0.91 3H, SEP d , SEP 1.03 SEP 71.58 SEP 9.11 SEP 4.25 tb SEP 1665, SEP 1600 SEP 3H, SEP d , SEP 4.26 4.93 tb SEP 1H, SEP m , SEP 7.15 2H, SEP d tb SEP , SEP 8.07 2H, SEP d , SEP 12. tb SEP 45 1H, SEP br tb SEP 35 SEP CH2CH CH3 2 SEP N SEP 152.0 SEP SEP 153.0 SEP 2950, SEP 2910, SEP 0.57 4.12 20H, SEP m , SEP C21H31NO.HCl SEP 72.08 SEP 9.22 SEP 4.00 tb SEP SEP 2860, SEP 2750 SEP 0.90 3H, SEP d , SEP 1.10 SEP 72.17 SEP 9.17 SEP 3.95 tb SEP 2100, SEP 1660, SEP 3H, SEP d , SEP 4.28 4.88 tb SEP 1600 SEP 1H, SEP m , SEP 7.12 2H, SEP d tb SEP , SEP 7.98 2H, SEP d , SEP 12. tb SEP 18 1H, SEP br tb SEP 36 SEP SEP N SEP 171.0 172.0 SEP 2950, SEP 2860, SEP 0.53 4.13 24H, SEP m , SEP C21H29NO.HCl SEP 72.50 SEP 8.69 SEP 4.03 tb SEP dec. SEP 2750 2000, SEP 4.28 4.78 1H, SEP m , SEP 72.64 SEP 8.68 SEP 3.97 tb SEP SEP 1670, SEP 1600 SEP 7.17 2H, SEP d , SEP 8.09 tb SEP 2H, SEP d , SEP 12.48 1H, tb SEP br tb Table 9 continued EMI38.1 SEP 37 SEP SEP N SEP 169.0 SEP SEP 170.0 SEP 2940, SEP 2860, SEP 0.50 4.17 26H, SEP m , SEP C22H31NO.HCl SEP 73.00 SEP 8.91 SEP 3.87 tb SEP dec. SEP 2770 2000, SEP 4.30 4.83 1H, SEP m , SEP 72.96 SEP 8.80 SEP 3.93 tb SEP tetrahydrofuran SEP 1665, SEP 1600 SEP 7.17 2H, SEP d , SEP 8.04 tb SEP ethylether SEP 2H, SEP d , SEP 12.17 1H, tb SEP br tb SEP 38 SEP CH2 SEP N SEP 172.0 SEP SEP 173.0 SEP 2950, SEP 2850, SEP 0.53 4.17 26H, SEP m , SEP C22H31NO.HCl SEP 73.00 SEP 8.91 SEP 3.87 tb SEP tetrahydrofuran SEP 2770 2200, SEP 4.30 4.93 1H, SEP m , SEP 73.18 SEP 8.86 SEP 3.85 tb SEP 1660, SEP 1600 SEP 7.19 2H, SEP d , SEP 8.08 tb SEP 2H, SEP d , SEP 12.47 1H, tb SEP br tb SEP 39 SEP CH2 SEP N SEP 165.0 SEP SEP 166.0 SEP 2930, SEP 2850, SEP 0.60 4.13 28H, SEP m , SEP C23H33NO.HCl SEP 73.48 SEP 9.12 SEP 3.73 tb SEP dec. SEP 2780 2100, SEP 4.27 4.87 1H, SEP m , SEP 73.53 SEP 9.08 SEP 3.87 tb SEP SEP 1650, SEP 1595 SEP 7.17 2H, SEP d , SEP 8.03 tb SEP 2H, SEP d , SEP 12.18 1H, tb SEP br tb SEP 40 SEP SEP N SEP 180.0 SEP SEP 181.0 SEP 2940, SEP 2860, SEP 0.50 4.10 28H, SEP m , SEP C23H33NO.HCl SEP 73.48 SEP 9.12 SEP 3.73 tb SEP dec. SEP 2780 2000, SEP 4.23 4.73 1H, SEP m , SEP 73.40 SEP 9.06 SEP 3.83 tb SEP SEP 1675. SEP 1600 SEP 7.13 2H, SEP d , SEP 7.96 tb SEP 2H, SEP d , SEP 12.08 1H, tb SEP br tb NMR CDCl9 DMSO d Example 41 1 4 Cyclopentyiphenyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino l propanone hydrochlorideEMI39.1 3.41 g of 4 cyclopentylpropiophenone, 0.66 g of paraformaldehyde, 2.46 g of piperidine hydrochloride and one drop of concentrated hydrochloric acid were added to 1.5 ml of ethanol and the resulting reaction mixture was heated under reflux for 3 hours.After the reaction mixture was allowed to cool, 50 ml of chloroform was added thereto and the resulting mixture was washed three times with 30 ml portions of a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride. After the chloroform layer was isolated and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, the solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure to obtain a residue, which was recrystallized from isopropanol to obtain 4.70 g 83 of l 4 cyclopentylphenyl 2 methyl 3 piperidinol propanone hydrochloride in the form of white crystals,M.P. 174.0 175.00C dec. . IR KBr cm 2940, 2860, 2750 2200, 1670, 1600 NMR CDC13 6 ppm 1.15 4.18 21H,m , 1.30 3H,d , 4.29 4.92 1H,m , 7.29 2H,d , 7.94 2H,d , 12.09 lH,br Elemental analysis for C20H29NO.HC1 C H N Calcd. 71.51 9.00 4.17 Found 71.68 8.95 4.20 By the application of the similar procedure as described in Example 41, the compounds of Examples 42 46 below were obtained. EMI40.1 Table 10 EMI40.2 SEP Melting SEP point SEP Elemental SEP analysis tb SEP C SEP Molecular SEP upper SEP row SEP Calcd. tb Example SEP R SEP A SEP IR KBr SEP cm 1 SEP NMR CDCl3 SEP SEP ppm tb No. SEP formula SEP lower SEP row SEP Found tb SEP Recrystn. tb SEP solvent tb SEP C SEP SEP H SEP SEP N SEP tb SEP 42 SEP CH3 SEP N SEP 166.0 SEP SEP 167.0 SEP 2950, SEP 2860, SEP 1.07 4.13 19H, SEP m , SEP 1.31 SEP C10H27NO.HCl SEP 70.90 SEP 8.77 SEP 4.35 tb SEP dec. SEP 2750 2200, SEP 3H, SEP d , SEP 4.23 4.90 1H, SEP m , SEP 70.52 SEP 8.69 SEP 4.31 tb SEP isoporpanol SEP 1675, SEP 1600 SEP 7.33 2H, SEP d , SEP 7.99 2H, SEP d , tb SEP ethylether SEP 12.27 1H, SEP br tb SEP 43 SEP SEP N SEP 185.0 SEP SEP 189.0 SEP 2950, SEP 2930, SEP 1.14 4.24 23H, SEP m , SEP 1.29 SEP C21H91NO.HCl SEP 72.08 SEP 9.22 SEP 4.00 tb SEP dec. SEP 2860, SEP 2750 SEP 3H, SEP d , SEP 4.30 4.93 1H, SEP m , SEP 72.18 SEP 9.13 SEP 3.92 tb SEP isopropanol SEP 2200, SEP 1665, SEP 7.34 2H, SEP d , SEP 7.99 2H, SEP d , tb SEP 1600 SEP 12.14 1H, SEP br tb SEP 44 SEP C2H5 SEP N SEP 168.0 SEP SEP 169.5 SEP 2970, SEP 2940, SEP 0.90 3H, SEP t , SEP 1.33 4.13 SEP C20H20NO.HCl SEP 71.51 SEP 9.00 SEP 4.17 tb SEP isopropanol SEP 2880, SEP 2800 SEP 21H, SEP m , SEP 4.30 4.83 1H, SEP m SEP 71.47 SEP 9.07 SEP 4.28 tb SEP ethylether SEP 2200, SEP 1690, SEP , SEP 7.35 2H, SEP d , SEP 8.06 2H, tb SEP 1605 SEP d , SEP 12.33 1H, SEP br tb SEP 45 SEP SEP N SEP 183.0 SEP SEP 184.5 SEP 2970, SEP 2800, SEP 0.93 3H, SEP t , SEP 1.30 4.17 SEP C21H31NO.HCl SEP 72.08 SEP 9.22 SEP 4.00 tb SEP dec. SEP 2800 2300, SEP 23H, SEP m , SEP 4.30 4.80 1H, SEP m SEP 72.19 SEP 9.30 SEP 4.02 tb SEP SEP 1675, SEP 1605 SEP , SEP 7.37 2H, SEP d , SEP 8.03 2H, tb SEP d , SEP 12.07 1H, SEP br tb SEP 46 SEP SEP N SEP 178.0 SEP SEP 180.0 SEP 2960, SEP 2870, SEP 0.93 3H, SEP t . SEP 1.27 4.28 SEP C23H33NO.HCl SEP 72.60 SEP 9.42 SEP 3.85 tb SEP dec. SEP 2800 2300, SEP 25H, SEP m , SEP 4.37 4.87 1H, SEP m SEP 72.55 SEP 9.52 SEP 3.88 tb SEP isopropanol SEP 1670, SEP 1600 SEP , SEP 7.38 2H, SEP d , SEP 8.07 2H, tb SEP d , SEP 12.13 1H, SEP br tb Example 47 1 4 Cyclohexylphenyl 2 methyl 3 1 pyrrOlidinyl l propanone hydrochlorideEMI41.1 3.65 g of 4 cyclohexylpropiophenone, 0.66 g of paraformaldehyde, 2.17 g of pyrrolidine hydrochloride and one drop of concentrated hydrochloric acid were added to 2 ml of a solvent mixture of ethanol and isopropanol 1 1 and the resulting reaction mixture was heated under reflux for 3.5 hours. After the reaction mixture was allowed to cool, 50 ml of chloroform was added thereto and the resulting mixture was washed three times with 30 ml portions of a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride. After the chloroform layer was isolated and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, the solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure to obtain a residue, which was recrystallized from a solvent mixture of isopropanol and ethyl ether to obtain 4.37 g 77 of 1 4 cyclohexylphenyl 2 methyl 3 1 pyrrolidinyl 1 propanone hydrochloride in the form of white crystals, M.P. 176.0 177.00C dec. . IR KBr cm l 2960, 2920, 2850, 2750 2200, 1680, 1600 NMR CDC13 6 ppm 1.05 4.08 21H,m , 1.25 3H,d , 4.18 4.85 lH,m , 7.25 2H,d , 7.95 2H,d , 12.28 lH,br Elemental analysis for C20H2sNO HCl C H N Calcd. 71.51 9.00 4.17 Found 71.48 9.20 4.30 By the application of the similar procedure as described in Example 47, the compounds of Examples 48 52 below were obtained. EMI42.1 Table 11 EMI42.2 SEP Melting SEP point SEP Elemental SEP analysis tb Example SEP R SEP A SEP C SEP IR KBr am 10 SEP NMR CDCl3 SEP SEP ppm SEP Molecular SEP Upper SEP row SEP Calcd. tb No. SEP Recrystn, SEP formula SEP lower SEP row SEP Found tb SEP solvent SEP C SEP H SEP N tb 48 SEP CH3 SEP SEP 187.0 189.0 SEP 2920,2850, SEP 1.12 4.18 23H, SEP m , SEP 1.30 SEP C21H91NO.NCl SEP 72.08 SEP 9.22 SEP 4.00 tb SEP dec. SEP 2750 2200, SEP 3H, SEP d , SEP 4.28 4.95 1H,m , SEP 72.11 SEP 9.31 SEP 4.24 tb SEP isopropanol SEP 1670,1600 SEP 7,31 SEP 2H, SEP d , SEP 8.00 2H, SEP d , tb SEP 1.2.10 1H,br tb 49 SEP SEP SEP 177.0 178.0 SEP 2920,2840, SEP 1.17 4,23 25H, SEP m , SEP 1.31 SEP SEP C23H99NO.HC1 SEP 72.60 SEP 9.42 SEP 3.85 tb SEP dec. SEP 2750 2200, SEP 3H, SEP d , SEP 4.30 4.90 SEP 1H, SEP m , SEP 62.59 SEP 9.54 SEP 3.84 tb SEP SEP 1665,1600 SEP 7,30 SEP 2H, SEP d , SEP 8.00 SEP 2H, SEP d , tb SEP 12.17 SEP 1H, SEP br tb 50 SEP C2H5 SEP SEP 169.0 179.0 SEP 2960,2920, SEP 0.67 4.10 23H, SEP m , SEP 0.87 SEP SEP C21H91NO.HCl SEP 72.08 SEP 9.22 SEP 4.00 tb SEP dec. SEP 2850,2750 SEP 3H, SEP t , SEP 4.20 4.73 1H,m , SEP 71.96 SEP 9.09 SEP 4.27 tb SEP SEP 2200,1680. SEP 7.27 2H, SEP d , SEP 7.97 2H, SEP d , tb SEP 1595 SEP 12.13 1H, SEP br tb 51 SEP SEP SEP 179.0 185.0 SEP 2930,1850, SEP 0.63 4.13 25H, SEP m , SEP 0.93 SEP SEP C32H99NO.HCl SEP 72.60 SEP 9.42 SEP 3.85 tb SEP dec. SEP 2800 2200, SEP 3H, SEP t , SEP 4.27 4.80 1H, SEP m , SEP 72.56 SEP 9.36 SEP 3.75 tb SEP SEP 1670,1600 SEP 7.30 2H, SEP d , SEP 7.97 2H, SEP d , tb SEP 12.17 SEP 1H, SEP br tb 52 SEP SEP SEP 180.0 186.0 SEP 2960,2920, SEP 0.63 4.23 SEP 27H,m , SEP 093 SEP SEP C25H95NO.HCl SEP 73.08 SEP 9.60 SEP 3.71 tb SEP dec. SEP 2860,2800 SEP 3H, SEP t , SEP 4.30 4.80 SEP 1H, SEP m , SEP 73.12 SEP 9.59 SEP 3.64 tb SEP SEP 2300,1670, SEP 7.30 2H, SEP d , SEP 8.00 SEP 2H SEP ,d , tb SEP 1600 SEP 12.17 SEP 1H, SEP br tb Example 53 2 Ethyl 1 3,4 methylenedioxyphenyl 3 piperidino 1 propanone hydrochlorideEMI43.1 3.00 g of the 3 ,4 methylenedioxybutyrophenone prepared inReference Example 4, 0.63 g of paraformaldehyde, 2.29 g of piperidine hydrochloride and one drop of concentrated hydrochloric acid were added to 2.0 itil of isopropanol and the resulting reaction mixture was heated under reflux for 3 hours.After the reaction mixture was allowed to cool, 50 ml of chloroform was added thereto and the resulting mixture was washed three times with 30 ml portions of a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride. After the chloroform layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, the solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure to obtain a residue, which was recrystallized from tetrahydrofuran to obtain 4.12 g 81 of 2 ethyl 1 3,4methylenedioxyphenyl 3 piperidino 1 propanone hydrochloride in the form of white crystals, M.P. 175.0 177.0 C. IR KBr cm 1 2940, 2860, 2760 2150, 1660, 1600, 1490, 1440, 1260 NMR CDC13 6 ppm 0.92 3H,t , 1.18 4.13 14H,m , 4.20 4.73 1H,m , 6.03 2H,s , 6.85 1H,d , 7.45 1H,d , 7.73 1H,dd , 12.05 lH,br Elemental analysis for C17H23NO3HC1 C H N Calcd. 62.67 7.43 4.30 Found 62.59 7.51 4.38Example 54 2 Ethyl 1 3,4 methylenedioxyphenyl 3 piperidino 1propanoneEMI43.2 1.50 g of the 2 ethyl 1 3,4 methylenedioxyphenyl 3 piperidino l propanone hydrochloride obtained in Example 53 was dissolved in 25 ml of water and the resulting solution was alkalified with a 20 96 aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide. he oily material so separated was extracted with ethyl ether and washed three times with a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride. The ethyl ether layer was isolated, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then distilled under reduced pressure to remove the solvent. The resulting oily residue was purified by silica v 1 column chromatography fusing an eluent composed of chloroform and ethanol 20 to obtain 1.22 g 92 of 2 ethyl 1 3,4 methylenedioxyphenyl 3 piperi dino l propanone in the form o an oily material. IR Neat cm l 2960, 2930, 2850, 2800, 1670, 1605, 1500, 1490, 1440, 1260 NMR CDC13 6 ppm 0.70 3.03 17H,m , 3.23 3.80 1H, m , 6.02 2H,s , 6.82 1H,d , 7.43 1H,d , 7.56 1H,dd Example 55 2 Ethyl 1 3,4 methylenedioxyphenyl 3 piperidino 1propanone nitrateEMI44.1 1.00 g of the 2 ethyl l 3,4 methylenedioxyphenyl 3 piperidino l propanone obtained in Example 54 was dissolved in 10 ml of methanol and the resulting solution was acidified with 30 nitric acid. Then, the solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure to obtain a residue, to which ethyl ether was added. The resulting mixture was stirred vigorously. The crystals so precipitated were collected by filtration and recrystallized from a solvent mixture of isopropanol and tetrahydrofuran to obtain 0.95 g 78 of 2 ethyl 1 3,4methylenedioxyphenyl 3 piperidino 1 propanone nitrate, M.P.167.0 169.50C dec. . IR KBr cm 1 3050, 2960, 2880, 2830 2200, 1660, 1600, 1440, 1380, 1345, 1250 NMR CDC13 6 ppm 0.90 3H,t , 1.10 4.33 15H,m , 6.03 2H, s , 6.85 1H,d , 7.40 lH,d , 7.63 1H,dd , 10.90 lH,br Elemental analysis for C17H23NO3.HNO3 C H N Calcd. 57.94 6.87 7.95 Found 57.88 6.90 8.03Example 56 2 Ethyl 1 3,4 methylenedioxyphenyl 3 l pyrrolidinyl 1 propanone hydrochlorideEMI45.1 3.00 g of the 3 ,4 methylenedioxybutyrophenone prepared inReference Example 4, 0.63 g of paraformaldehyde, 2.03 g of pyrrolidine hydrochloride and one drop of concentrated hydrochloric acid were added to 2 ml of ethanol and the resulting reaction mixture was heated under reflux for 4 hours.After the reaction mixture was allowed to cool, 50 ml of chloroform was added thereto and the resulting mixture was washed three times with 30 ml portions of a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride. After the chloroform layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, the solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure to obtain a residue, which was recrystallized from tetrahydrofuran to obtain 3.89 g 80 of 2 ethyl l 3,4 methylenedioxyphenyl 3 1 pyrrolidinyl 1 propanone hydrochloride in the form of white crystals, M.P. 157.0 159.0 C. IR KBr cm 1 2960, 2880, 2800 2150, 1670, 1600, 1495, 1440, 1270 NMR CDCla 6 ppm 0.90 3H,t , 1.37 4.20 12H, m , 4.23 4.77 1H,m , 6.06 2H,s , 6.89 1H,d , 7.50 1H,d , 7.82 1H,dd , 12.45 lH,br Elemental analysis for C16H21NO3.HCl C H N Calcd. 61.63 7.11 4.49 Found 61.56 7.08 4.59Example 57 2 Methyl 1 3,4 methylenedioxyphenyl 3 piperidino 1propanone hydrochlorideEMI45.2 3.01 g of the 3 ,4 methylenedioxypropiophenone prepared inReference Example 18, 0.66 g of paraformaldehyde, 2.46 g of piperidine hydrochloride and one drop of concentrated hydrochloric acid were added to 2 ml of a solvent mixture of isopropanol and ethanol 1 1 and the resulting reaction mixture was heated under reflux for 4 hours. After the reaction mixture was allowed to cool, 40 ml of chloroform was added thereto and the resulting mixture was washed three times with 30 ml portions of a saturated aqueous sciution of sodium chloride.After the chloroform layer was drier over anhydrous sodium sulfate, the solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure to obtain a residue, which was recrystallized from isopropanol to obtain 3.84 g 73 of 2 methyl 1 3,4 methylenedioxyphenyl 3 piperidino l propanone hydrochloride in the form of white crystals, M.P. 189.0 190.00C dec. . IR KBr cm1 2970, 2940, 2770 2150, 1665, 1595, 1480, 1430, 1250 NMR CDC13 6 ppm 0.95 4.15 12H, m , 1.29 3H, d , 4.18 4.88 1H,m , 6.05 2H,s , 6.85 1H,d , 7.44 1H, d , 7.73 1H,dd , 11.98 lH,br Elemental analysis for C16H21NO3.HCl C H N Calcd. 61.63 7.11 4.19 Found 96 61.49 7.19 4.48Example 58 2 Ethyl 1 3,4 methylenedioxyphenyl 3 piperidino 1 propanone hydrochloride isomer EMI46.1 a 2 Ethyl l 3, 4 methylenedioxyphenyl 3 piperidino 1 propanone N acetyl D alpha phenylglycinate 37.0 g of 2 ethyl 1 3,4 methylenedioxyphenyl 3 piperidino l propanone hydrochloride prepared according to the procedure of Example 53 was dissolved in 400 ml of water and the resulting solution was alkalified with a 10 aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide, followed by vigorous stirring. The oily material so separated was extracted three times with 100 ml portions of benzene. The benzene layer was washed with water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then distilled under reduced pressure to remove the solvent.. The resulting oily residue was dissolved in 100 ml of acetone, and 21.9 g of N acetyl D a phenylglycine was added thereto and dissolved therein by the application of heat. After the solution was allowed to cool, the solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure to obtain an oily residue.A solvent mixture of isopropyl ether 150 ml and acetone 100 ml was added thereto and dissolved therein by the application of heat, and the resulting solution was allowed to stand in the cold. The crystals so precipitated were collected by filtration and recrystallized twice from ethyl acetate to obtain 20.6 g of 2 ethyl 1 3,4 methylenedioxyphenyl 3 piperidino 1 propanone N acetyl D a phenylglycinate, fal 63.20 C l, methanol , M.P. 128.0 128.50C. IR KBr cm l 3240, 3210, 3060, 2950, 2920, 2730 2000, 1665, 1600, 1545 NMR CDC13 6 ppm 0.72 3H,t , 1.17 1.90 8H,m , 2.03 3H,s , 2.43 4.27 7H,m , 5.28 1H,d , 6.03 2H,s , 6.78 1H,d , 6.97 7.67 8H,m , 13.55 lH,br Elemental analysis for C2,H34N206 C H N Calcd. 67.20 7.10 5.81 Found 67.16 7.21 5.81 b 2 Ethyl l 3 ,4 methylenedioxyphenyl 3 piperidino l propanone hydrochloride 19 g of the 2 ethyl 1 3,4 methylenedioxyphenyl 30 piperidino 1 propanone N acetyl D alpha phenylglycinate obtained in a was dissolved in 300 ml of water and the resulting solution was alkalified with a 10 aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide.The oily material so separated was extracted three times with 100 ml portions of benzene. The benzene layer was washed with water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then concentrated under reduced pressure to a volume of about 50 ml. This solution was acidified by the addition of benzene saturated with hydrogen chloride and then distilled under reduced pressure to remove the solvent. The resulting solid residue was recrystallized from tetrahydrofuran to obtain 9.1 g of 2 ethyl 1 34 methylenedioxyphenyl 3 piperidino 1propanone hydrochlor de, a 2Dt 5.90 C 2, methanol , M.P. 169.5 170.00C. IR KBr cm 1 3120, 3090, 250, 2890, 2800 2000, 1670, 1600 NMR CDC13 6 ppm 0.95 3H,t , 1.17 4.10 l4H,m , 4.97 4.77 lH1m , 6.10 2H,s , 6.90 lH,d , 7.50 lH,d , 7.79 lH,dd , 12.08 1H,br Elemental analysis for C17H23NO3.HCl C H N Calcd. 62.67 7.43 4.30 Found 62.69 7.50 4.23Example 59 2 Ethyl 1 3,4 methylenedioxyphenyl 3 piperidino 1 propanone hydrochloride isomerEMI48.1 a 2 Ethyl i 3, 4 methylenedioxyphenyl 3 piperidino l propanone N acetyl L a phenylglycinate The crystallization and recrystallization mother liquors obtained in Example 58 a were combined and concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting residue was dissolved in 300 ml of water and this solution was alkalified with a 10 aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide. The oily material so separated was extracted three times with 100 ml portions of benzene.The benzene layer was washed with water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then distilled under reduced preEsure to remove the solvent. Thus, there was obtained 18.1 g of an oily material containing a large amount of the isomer. This oily material was dissolved in 200 ml of acetone, and 12.1 g of N acetyl L a phenylglycine was added thereto and dissolved tow rein by the application of heat. After the solution was allowed to cool, the solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure and the resulting solid residue was recrystallized twice from ethyl acetate to obtain 12.3 g of 2 ethyl 1 3,4methylenedioxyphenyl 3 piperidino 1 propanone N acetyl L alpha phenylglycinate, alpha D25 62.8 C 1.0, methanol , M.P. 127.0128.00C. IR KBr cm l 3240, 3210, 3060, 2950, 2930, 2730 2000, 1665, 1600, 1550 NMR CDC13 6 ppm 0.72 3H,t , 1.17 1.93 8H,m , 2.02 3H,s , 2.43 4.23 7H,m , 5.28 1H,d , 6.05 2H,s , 6.79 1H,d , 6.97 7.67 8H,m , 13.53 lH,br Elemental analysis for C2,H34N206 C H N Calcd. z 67.20 7.10 5.81 Found 67.26 7.10 5.73 b 2 Ethyl 1 3,4 methylenedioxyphenyl 3 piperidino 1propanone hydrochloride 5.0 g of the 2 ethyl 1 3,4 methylenedioxyphenyl 3 piperidino l propanone N acetyl L a phenylglycinate obtained in a was dissolved in 50 ml of water and the resulting solution was alkalified with a 10 aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide. The oily material so separated was extracted three times with 50 ml portions of benzene.The combined benzene layer was washed with water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then concentrated under reduced pressure to a volume of about 50 ml. This solution was acidified by the addition of benzene saturated with hydrgoen chloride and then distilled under reduced pressure to remove the solvent. The resulting solid residue was recrystallized from tetrahydrofuran to obtain 2.5 g of 2 ethyl 1 3,4 methylenedioxyphenyl 3 piperidino 1 propanone hydrochloride, alpha D24 5.5 C 2.0, methanol , M.P. 169.5 170.00C. IR KBr cm l 3120, 3090, 2950, 2880, 2800 2000, 1670, 1600 NMR CDC13 6 ppm 0.93 3H,t , 1.17 4.07 14H,m , 4.27 4.73 1H,m , 6.08 2H,s , 6.90 lH,d , 7.50 lH,d , 7.78 lH,dd , 12.17 1H,br Elemental analysis for Cl7H 3NOs HCl C H N Calcd. 62.67 7.43 4.30 Found 62.71 7.40 4.32 By the application of the similar procedure as described in Example 53, the compounds of Examples 60 84 below were obtained. Table 12 EMI51.1 EMI51.2 SEP Melting SEP point SEP Klemental SEP analysis tb Exumple SEP R1 SEP A SEP C SEP IR KBr cm 1 SEP NMR CDCl3 SEP . SEP ppm SEP Molecular SEP upper SEP row SEP Calcd. tb No. SEP Recrystn. SEP tormulu SEP lower SEP row SEP Found tb SEP solvent SEP C SEP H SEP N tb 60 SEP CH3 SEP SEP 170.0 171.0 SEP 2980,2900, SEP 1.29 3H, SEP d , SEP 1.51 SEP C15H19NO3.HCl SEP 60.50 SEP 6.77 SEP 4.70 tb SEP dec. SEP 2800,2780 SEP 4.08 10H, SEP m , SEP 4.15 SEP 60.41 SEP 6.85 SEP 4.59 tb SEP isopropanol SEP 2200,1670, SEP 4.75 1H, SEP m , SEP 6.07 tb SEP ethylether SEP 1610,1480, SEP 2H, SEP s , SEP 6.86 1H, tb SEP 1430,1260 SEP d , SEP 7.45 1H, SEP d , SEP 7. tb SEP 73 SEP 1H, SEP dd , SEP 12.12 tb SEP 1H, SEP br tb 61 SEP SEP SEP 171.0 172.0 SEP 2950,2870, SEP 1.05 4.23 14H, SEP m , SEP C17H23NO3.HCl SEP 62.67 SEP 7.43 SEP 4.30 tb SEP dec. SEP 2800 2250, SEP 1.26 3H, SEP d , SEP 4.25 SEP 62.53 SEP 7.37 SEP 4.41 tb SEP isopropanol SEP 1680,1610, SEP 4,88 1H, SEP m , SEP 6.05 SEP tb SEP 1485,1430, SEP 2H, SEP s , SEP 6.87 1H, SEP d tb SEP 1255 SEP , SEP 7.46 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.7 tb SEP 5 1H, SEP dd , SEP 12.08 tb SEP 1H, SEP br tb 62 SEP SEP SEP 153.5 154.5 SEP 2930,3860, SEP 0.93 4.20 16H, SEP m , SEP C18H25NO3.HCl SEP 63.61 SEP 7.71 SEP 4.12 tb SEP dec. SEP 2800 2200, SEP 1.28 3H, SEP d , SEP 4.23 SEP 63.55 SEP 7.80 SEP 4.21 tb SEP isopropanol SEP 1675,1610, SEP 4.87 1H, SEP m , SEP 6.05 tb SEP tetrahydrofuran SEP 1480,1430, SEP 2H, SEP s , SEP 6.85 1H, SEP d tb SEP 1250 SEP , SEP 7.44 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.7 tb SEP 3 1H, SEP dd , SEP 11.95 SEP tb SEP 1H, SEP br tb Table 12 continued EMI52.1 63 SEP C2H5 SEP SEP 143.0 145.0 SEP 2960,2930, SEP 0.95 3H, SEP t , SEP 1.32 SEP C18H25NO3.HCl SEP 63.61 SEP 7.71 SEP 4.12 tb SEP tetrahydrofuran SEP 2860,2800 SEP 4.85 17H, SEP m , SEP 6.10 SEP 63.64 SEP 7.69 SEP 4.21 tb SEP 2150,1665, SEP 2H, SEP s , SEP 6.90 1H, tb SEP 1600,1490, SEP d , SEP 7.50 1H, SEP d , SEP 7. tb SEP 1440,1250 SEP 80 1H, SEP dd , SEP 12.07 tb SEP 1H, SEP br tb 64 SEP SEP SEP 87.0 89.0 SEP 2960, SEP 2920, SEP 0.90 1H,t , SEP 1.23 SEP C10H27NO3.HCl SEP 64.49 SEP 7.98 SEP 3.96 tb SEP SEP 2850,2800 SEP 4.20 18H, SEP m , SEP 4.23 SEP 64.58 SEP 7.84 SEP 3.92 tb SEP 2150,1660, SEP 4.77 1H, SEP m , SEP 6.05 tb SEP 1490,1440, SEP 2H, SEP s , SEP 6.87 1H, tb SEP 1250 SEP d , SEP 7.47 1H, SEP d , SEP 7. tb SEP 78 1H, SEP dd , SEP 12.03 tb SEP 1H, SEP br tb 65 SEP n C3H7 SEP SEP 148.0 149.0 SEP 2950, SEP 2920, SEP 0.62 4.21 17H, SEP m , SEP C17H23NO3.HCl SEP 62.67 SEP 7.43 SEP 4.30 tb SEP SEP 2860,2750 SEP 4.25 4.82 1H, SEP m , SEP 62.57 SEP 7.39 SEP 4.27 tb SEP 2150,1665, SEP 6.15 2H, SEP s , SEP 6.95 tb SEP 1605,1490, SEP 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.57 1H, SEP d tb SEP 1430,1260 SEP , SEP 7.88 SEP 1H, SEP dd , SEP 1 tb SEP 2.23 SEP 1H, SEP br tb 66 SEP SEP SEP 150.0 152.0 SEP 2960,2930, SEP 0.60 4.22 19H, SEP m , SEP C18H25NO3.HCl SEP 63.61 SEP 7.71 SEP 4.12 tb SEP SEP 2860,2750 SEP 4.23 4.87 1H, SEP m , SEP 63.71 SEP 7.78 SEP 4.32 tb SEP 2150,1660, SEP 6.13 2H, SEP s , SEP 6.90 tb SEP 1600,1490, SEP 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.50 1H, SEP d tb SEP 1440,1260 SEP , SEP 7.81 1H, SEP dd , SEP 1 tb SEP 1.90 1H, SEP br tb Table 12 continued EMI53.1 67 SEP iso C3H7 SEP SEP 200.0 202.0 SEP 2960,2900, SEP 0.82 3H, SEP d , SEP 1.16 SEP C18H25NO3.HCl SEP 63.61 SEP 7.71 SEP 4.12 tb SEP dec. SEP 2800 2100, SEP 3H, SEP d , SEP 1.37 4.15 SEP 63.49 SEP 7.83 SEP 4.20 tb SEP isopropanol SEP 1665,1605, SEP 13H, SEP m , SEP 4.25 4.68 tb SEP tetrahydrofuran SEP 1490,1440, SEP 1H, SEP m , SEP 6.08 2H, tb SEP 1250 SEP s , SEP 6.88 1H, SEP d , SEP 7. tb SEP 48 1H,d , SEP 7.67 1 tb SEP H, SEP dd , SEP 11.95 1H, tb SEP br tb 68 SEP n C4H9 SEP SEP 129.0 130.0 SEP 2960,2930, SEP 0.48 4.12 19H, SEP m , SEP C18H23NO3.HCl SEP 63.61 SEP 7.71 SEP 4.12 tb SEP chloroform SEP 3870,2800 SEP 4.25 4.77 1H, SEP m , SEP 63.57 SEP 7.65 SEP 4.27 tb SEP ethylether SEP 2200,1670, SEP 6.07 2H, SEP s , SEP 6.88 tb SEP 1610,1490, SEP 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.47 1H, SEP d tb SEP 1440,1250 SEP , SEP 7.80 1H, SEP dd , SEP 1 tb SEP 2.40 1H, SEP br tb 69 SEP SEP SEP 141.0 142.0 SEP 2960,2950, SEP 0.53 4.13 21H, SEP m , SEP C19H27NO3.HCl SEP 64.49 SEP 7.98 SEP 3.96 tb SEP trtrahydrofuran SEP 2860,2800, SEP 4.23 4.77 1H, SEP m , SEP 64.54 SEP 7.86 SEP 4.06 tb SEP 2770 2150, SEP 6.05 2H, SEP s , SEP 6.88 tb SEP 1670 1605, SEP 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.47 1H, SEP d tb SEP 1490,1435, SEP , SEP 7.77 1H, SEP dd , SEP 1 tb SEP 1240 SEP 2.13 1H, SEP br tb 70 SEP iso C4H9 SEP SEP 178.0 179.0 SEP 2950,2900, SEP 0.77 4.07 15H, SEP m , SEP C19H27NO3.HCl SEP 64.49 SEP 7.98 SEP 3.96 tb SEP dec. SEP 2800 2100, SEP 0.92 3H, SEP d , SEP 1.10 SEP SEP 64.53 SEP 7.88 SEP 3.86 tb SEP SEP 1660,1600, SEP 3H, SEP d , SEP 4.30 4.80 tb SEP 1485,1440, SEP 1H, SEP m , SEP 6.03 2H, SEP s tb SEP 1260 SEP , SEP 6.87 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.4 tb SEP 7 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.80 1H, tb SEP dd , SEP 12.30 1H, SEP br tb Table 12 continued EMI54.1 71 SEP n C5H11 SEP SEP 132.0 134.0 SEP 2950,2920, SEP 0.50 4.13 21H, SEP m SEP C19H27NO3.HCl SEP 64.49 SEP 7.98 SEP 3.96 tb SEP chloroform SEP 2850,2800 SEP 4.20 4.80 1H, SEP m , SEP 64.37 SEP 7.89 SEP 3.79 tb SEP ethylethyer SEP 2200,1665, SEP 6.07 2H, SEP s , SEP 6.88 tb SEP 1600,1490, SEP 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.50 1h,d tb SEP 1440,1255 SEP , SEP 7.83 1H, SEP dd , SEP 1 tb SEP 2.43 1H, SEP br tb 72 SEP SEP SEP 154.0 155.0 SEP 2950,2930, SEP 0.56 4.16 23H, SEP m , SEP C20H20NO3.HCl SEP 65.29 SEP 8.22 SEP 3.81 tb SEP tetrahydrofuran SEP 2860,2750 SEP 4.27 4.79 1H, SEP m , SEP 65.38 SEP 8.16 SEP 3.91 tb SEP 2100,1670, SEP 6.09 2H, SEP s , SEP 6.91 tb SEP 1600,1490, SEP 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.49 1H, SEP d tb SEP 1440,1250 SEP , SEP 7.80 1H, SEP dd , SEP 1 tb SEP 2.11 1H, SEP br tb 73 SEP n C6H13 SEP SEP 70.0 72.0 SEP 2970,2940, SEP 0.55 4.12 23H, SEP m , SEP C20H20NO3.HCl SEP 65.29 SEP 8.22 SEP 3.81 tb SEP tetrahydrofuran SEP 2860,2780 SEP 4.22 4.78 1H,m , SEP 65.16 SEP 8.35 SEP 3.90 tb SEP ethylether SEP 2200,1670, SEP 6.07 2H, SEP s , SEP 6.91 tb SEP 1605,1490, SEP 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.52 1H, SEP d tb SEP 1440,1250 SEP , SEP 7.87 1H, SEP dd , SEP 1 tb SEP 2.48 1H, SEP br tb 74 SEP SEP SEP 118.0 120.0 SEP 2950,2930, SEP 0.58 4.15 25H, SEP m , SEP C21H31NO3.HCl SEP 66.04 SEP 8.45 SEP 3.67 tb SEP SEP 2860,2780 SEP 4.28 4.78 1H, SEP m , SEP 66.16 SEP 8.50 SEP 3.74 tb SEP 2200,1670, SEP 6.07 2H, SEP s , SEP 6.88 tb SEP 1600,1490, SEP 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.48 1H, SEP d tb SEP 1440,1250 SEP , SEP 7.78 1H, SEP dd , SEP 1 tb SEP 2.18 1H, SEP br tb Table 12 continued EMI55.1 75 SEP SEP SEP 180.0 182.0 SEP 2940,2850, SEP 0.90 4.07 21H, SEP m SEP C20H27NO3.HCl SEP 65.65 SEP 7.71 SEP 3.83 tb SEP dec. SEP 2800 2100, SEP 4.23 4.73 1H, SEP m . SEP 65.58 SEP 7.85 SEP 3.81 tb SEP tetrahydrofuran SEP 1655,1600, SEP 6.02 2H, SEP s , SEP 6.83 tb SEP 1490,1440, SEP 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.45 1H, SEP d tb SEP 1250 SEP , SEP 7.78 1H, SEP dd , SEP 1 tb SEP 2.23 1H, SEP br tb 76 SEP SEP SEP 175.0 176.0 SEP 2940,2850, SEP 0.50 4.10 23H, SEP m , SEP C21H29NO3.HCl SEP 66.39 SEP 7.96 SEP 3.69 tb SEP SEP 2800 2100, SEP 4.23 4.87 1H, SEP m , SEP 66.45 SEP 7.82 SEP 3.79 tb SEP 1660,1600, SEP 6.07 2H, SEP s , SEP 6.87 tb SEP 1490,1440, SEP 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.47 1H, SEP d tb SEP 1260 SEP . SEP 7.82 1H, SEP dd , SEP 1 tb SEP 2.17 1H, SEP br tb 77 SEP SEP SEP 192.0 195.0 SEP 2940,2860, SEP 0.67 4.13 23H, SEP m , SEP C21H20NO3.HCl SEP 66.30 SEP 7.96 SEP 3.69 tb SEP dec. SEP 2780 2200, SEP 4.27 4.63 1H, SEP m , SEP 66.37 SEP 7.80 SEP 3.57 tb SEP isopropanol SEP 1670,1600, SEP 6.07 2H, SEP s , SEP 6.87 tb SEP ethylether SEP 1440,1250 SEP 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.47 1H, SEP d tb SEP , SEP 7.75 1H, SEP dd , SEP 1 tb SEP 2.12 1H, SEP br tb 78 SEP C2H5 SEP SEP 93.0 95.0 SEP 2970,2940, SEP 0.63 1.27 6H, SEP m , SEP C13H25NO3.HCl SEP 63.61 SEP 7.71 SEP 4.12 tb SEP tetrahydrofuran SEP 2880,2820 SEP 1.27 4.10 13H, SEP m , SEP 63.58 SEP 7.85 SEP 4.09 tb SEP isopropylether SEP 2200,1670, SEP 4.20 4.77 1H, SEP m , tb SEP 1600,1490, SEP 6.07 2H, SEP s , SEP 6.88 tb SEP 1440,1250 SEP 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.48 1H, SEP d tb SEP , SEP 7.78 1H, SEP dd , SEP 1 tb SEP 1.97 1H, SEP br tb Table 12 continued EMI56.1 79 SEP SEP SEP 169.0 170.0 SEP 2970,2940, SEP 0.60 4.10 19H, SEP m , SEP C16H25NO5.HCl SEP 63.61 SEP 7.71 SEP 4.12 tb SEP tetrahydrofuran SEP 2880,2800 SEP 4.17 4.77 1H, SEP m , SEP 63.72 SEP 7.68 SEP 4.20 tb SEP 2200,1670, SEP 6.05 2H, SEP s , SEP 6.87 tb SEP 1600,1490, SEP 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.48 1H, SEP d tb SEP 1440,1260 SEP , SEP 7.75 1H, SEP dd , SEP 1 tb SEP 2.03 1H, SEP br tb 80 SEP SEP SEP 186.0 187.0 SEP 2980,2940, SEP 0.57 4.06 21H, SEP m , SEP C10H27NO3.HCl SEP 64.49 SEP 7.98 SEP 3.96 tb SEP isopropanol SEP 2880,2800 SEP 4.20 4.70 1H, SEP m SEP 64.54 SEP 8.05 SEP 3.86 tb SEP 2200,1670, SEP 6.07 2H, SEP s , SEP 6.86 tb SEP 1600,1490, SEP 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.45 1H, SEP d tb SEP 1440,1260 SEP , SEP 7.73 1H, SEP dd , SEP 1 tb SEP 2.17 1H, SEP br tb 81 SEP SEP SEP 135.0 138.0 SEP 2950,2910, SEP 0.97 3H. SEP t , SEP 1.33 SEP C23H27NO3.HCl SEP 68.73 SEP 7.02 SEP 3.49 tb SEP tetrahydrofuran SEP 2850,2800 SEP 4.20 13H, SEP m , SEP 4.23 SEP 68.68 SEP 7.18 SEP 3.56 tb SEP 2100,1650, SEP 4.80 1H,m , SEP 6.02 tb SEP 1595,1480, SEP 2H, SEP s , SEP 6.88 1H, tb SEP 1430,1250 SEP d , SEP 7.23 5H, SEP s , SEP 7. tb SEP 50 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.78 1 tb SEP H, SEP dd , SEP 12.10 1H, tb SEP br tb 82 SEP SEP SEP 142.0 143.0 SEP 2950,2920, SEP 0.90 3H, SEP t , SEP 1.33 SEP C24H20NO3.HCl SEP 69.30 SEP 7.29 SEP 3.37 tb SEP SEP 2800 2100, SEP 4.10 15H, SEP m , SEP 4.17 SEP 69.26 SEP 7.17 SEP 3.40 tb SEP 1655,1595, SEP 4.77 1H, SEP m , SEP 6.02 tb SEP 1480,1440, SEP 2H, SEP s , SEP 6.83 1H, tb SEP 1255 SEP d , SEP 6.88 7.40 5H, tb SEP m , SEP 7.43 1H, SEP d , SEP 7. tb SEP 75 1H, SEP dd , SEP 12.17 tb SEP 1H, SEP br tb Table 12 continued EMI57.1 80 SEP SEP SEP 86.0 88.0 SEP 2950.2920, SEP 0.68 4.75 2H, SEP m , SEP C20H27NO5.HCl SEP 60.37 SEP 7.09 SEP 3.52 tb SEP SEP 2860,2800 SEP 6.05 2H, SEP s , SEP 6.88 SEP 60.46 SEP 7.11 SEP 3.54 tb SEP 2100,1720, SEP 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.48 1H, SEP d tb SEP 1660,1600, SEP , SEP 7.78 1H, SEP dd , SEP 1 tb SEP 1480,1440, SEP 2.12 1H, SEP br tb SEP 1260 tb 84 SEP SEP SEP oil SEP tb SEP 3350,2950, SEP 0.70 4.80 18H, SEP m , SEP C17H23NO4.HCl SEP 59.73 SEP 7.08 SEP 4.10 tb SEP 2910,2800 SEP 6.07 2H, SEP s , SEP 6.88 SEP 59.69 SEP 6.97 SEP 4.20 tb SEP 2200,1660, SEP 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.47 1H, SEP d tb SEP 1600,1480, SEP , SEP 7.70 1H, SEP dd , SEP 1 tb SEP 1430,1250 SEP 1.03 1H, SEP br tb IR Neal Example 85 1 2, Dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino 1 propanone hydrochlorideEMI58.1 4.0 g of the 5 propionyl 2,3 dihydrobenzofuran prepared inReference Example 5, 0.91 g of paraformaldehyde and 3.33 g of piperidine hydrochloride were added to 3 znl of isopropanol and the resulting reaction mixture was heated under reflux for 2 hours. After the reaction mixture was allowed to cool, 50 ml of chloroform was added thereto and the resulting mixture was washed three times with 40 ml portions of a saturated aqueous solution of sdium chloride.After the chloroform layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, the solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure to obtain a residue, which was recrystallized from ethanol to obtain 5.83 g 83 of 1 2,3 dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino 1 propanone hydrochloride in the form of white crystals, M.P. 193.0 194.00C dec. . IR KBr cm1 2960, 2810 2200, 1670, 1605, 1590, 1250 NMR CDC13 6 ppm 0.93 4.93 13H, m , 1.28 3H,d , 3.27 2H, t , 4.68 2H,t , 6.81 1H,d , 7.77 8.10 2H,m , 12.03 lH,br Elemental analysis for Cl7H23NO2 HCl C H N Calcd. 65.90 7.81 4.52 Found 65.79 7.84 4.32Example 86 1 2, 3 Dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino l propanoneEMI58.2 6.0 g of the 1 2,3 dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino l propanone hydrochloride obtained in Example 85 was dissolved in 75 ml of water and the resulting solution was alkalified by adding 10 ml of a 20 aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide.The oily material so separated was extracted with ethyl ether and washed three times with a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride. The ether layer was isolated, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then distilled under reduced pressure to remove the solvent. The resulting oily residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography using an eluent composed of chloroform and ethanol 20 1 to obtain 4.77 g 90 of l 2,3 dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino l propanone in the form of an oily material. IR Neat cm1 2970, 2940, 2860, 2800, 1670, 1600, 1585,1240 NMR CDC13 a ppm 0.97 1.77 6H, m , 1.18 3H,d , 2.13 3.90 7H,m , 3.22 2H,t ,4.63 2H,t , 6.75 1H,d , 7.67 7.97 2H,m Example 87 1 2,3 Dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino 1propanone nitrateEMI59.1 2.0 g of the l 2,3 dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino l propanone obtained in Example 86 was dissolved in 30 ml of methanol and the resulting solution was acidified with 30 nitric acid. Then, the solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure to obtain a residue, to which ethyl ether was added. The resulting mixture was stirred vigorously.The crystals so precipitated were collected by filtration and recrystallized from ethanol to obtain 1.82 g 74 of 1 2,3dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino 1 propanone nitrate, M.P. 175.5 177.0 C dec. . IR KBr cm1 2960, 2870, 2850 2200, 1670, 1600, 1585, 1330, 1245 NMR CDCla a ppm 1.08 4.37 13H,m , 1.24 3H,d , 3.27 2H, t , 4.68 2H,t , 6.83 1H,d , 7.73 8.03 2H,m , 10.97 1H,br Elemental analysis for C17H23NO2HNO3 C H N Calcd. 60.70 7.19 8.33 Found 60.62 7.21 8.45 Example 88 1 2,3 Dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino 1propanone sticcinate EMI60.1 2.0 g of the l 2,3 dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 methyl piperidino l propanone obtained in Example 86 was dissolved in 30 ml of methanol. TG the resulting solution was added a solution of 0.86 g of succinic acid in 40 ml of methanol.After vigorous stirring, the solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure to obtain a residue, to which ethyl ether was added. This residue crystallized when stirred vigorously. The crystals so precipitated were collected by filtration and recrystallized from acetone to obtain 2.15 g 75 of 1 2,3 dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino l propanone succinate, M.P. 110.5 111.5 C. IR KBr cm l 2980, 2950, 2870, 2800 2200, 1730, 1675, 1600, 1585, 1555, 1260 NMR CDC13 a ppm 0.97 2.10 6H,m , 1.20 3H,d , 2.48 4H,s , 2.67 4.33 7H,m , 3.27 2H,t , 4.63 2H,t , 6.84 1H, d , 7.73 8.03 2H,m , 13.62 2H,s Elemental analysis for Cl,H2sNO2 C4H604 C H N Calcd. 64.43 7.47 3.58 Found 64.39 7.28 3.50Example 89 1 2,3 Dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 ethyl 3 piperidino 1propanone hydrochlorideEMI60.2 3.0 g of the 5 butyryl 2,3 dihydrobenzofuran prepared inReference Example 2810.63 g of paraformaldehyde and 1.62 g of piperidine were added to 2 ml of isopropanol, followed by adding 1.7 ml of concentrated hydrochloric acid with stirring. The resulting reaction mixture was heated under reflux for 3 hours. After the reaction mixture was allowed to cool, 40 ml of chloroform was added thereto and the resulting mixture was washed three times with 30 ml portions of a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride. After the chloroform layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, the solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure to obtain a residue, which was recrystallized from tetrahydrofuran to obtain 4.14 g 81 of 1 2, 3 dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 ethyl 3 piperidino l propanone hydrochloride in the form of white crystals, M.P.181.0 182.00C. IR KBr cm 1 2930, 2860, 2800 2100, 1675, 1605, 1250 NMR CDCl3 6 ppm 0.93 3H,t , 1,18 4.98 15H,m , 3.28 2H, t , 4.68 2H,t , 6.82 1H,d , 7.78 8.18 2H,m , 11.95 1H,br Elemental analysis for C1eH25NO2HCl C H N Calcd. 66.76 8.09 4.33 Found 67.82 8.19 4.38Example 90 1 2, 3 Dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino lpropanone hydrochlorideEMI61.1 isomer a 1 2,3 Dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino 1propanone N acetyl D alpha phenylglycinate 30.0 g of 1 2,3 dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino l propanone hydrochloride prepared according to the procedure of Example 85 was suspended in 400 ml of water and the resulting suspension was alkalified with a 10 aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide, followed by vigorous stirring.The oily material so separated was extracted three times with 100 ml portions of benzene. The benzene layer was washed with water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then distilled under reduced pressure to remove the solvent. The resulting oily residue was dissolved in 100 ml of acetone, and 18.7 g of N acetyl D a phenylglycine was added thereto and dissolved therein by the application of heat. After the solution was allowed to cool, the solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure to obtain an oily residue, to which 200 ml of isopropyl ether was added. While the resulting mixture was being heated under reflux, acetone was added thereto until the oily material was dissolved completely. The resulting solution was allowed to stand in the cold.The crystals so precipitated were collected by fflitration and recrystallized three times from a solvent mixture of acetone and isopropyl ether to obtain 12.7 g of 1 2,3 dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 methyl 3 piperi dino l propanone N acetyl D a phenylglycinate, fa 2D3 41.50 C 1.0, methanol , M.P. 110.5 111.5 C. IR KBr cm l 3250, 3210, 3070, 2980, 2960, 2940, 2860, 2760 2000, 1670, 1605, 1585, 1550 NMR CDC13 6 ppm 0.74 2.34 6H,m , 1.04 3H,d , 1.99 3H,s , 2.41 4.14 7H,m , 3.19 2H,t , 4.60 2H,t , 5.26 1H,d , 6.68 lH,d , 6.91 7.83 8H,m , 13.73 1H,br Elemental analysis for C27H34N2O5 C H N Calcd. 69.51 7.35 6.00 Found 69.40 7.41 5.93 b 1 2 ,3 Dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino 1 propanone hydrochloride 9.0 g of the 1 2,3 dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino l propanone N acetyl D a phenylglycinate obtained in a was dissolved in 100 ml of water and the resulting solution was alkalified with a 10 aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide. The oily material so separated was extracted three times with 100 ml portions of benzene. The benzene layer was washed with water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then concentrated under reduced pressure to a volume of about 30 ml. This solution was acidified by the addition of benzene saturated with hydrogen chloride and then distilled under reduced pressure to remove the solvent.The resulting solid residue was recrystallized from ethanol to obtain 5.0 g of 1 2,3 dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino 1propanone hydrochloride, alpha D29 42.2 C 1.0, methanol , M.P.198.5 199.50C dec. . IR KBr cm 2 2950, 2800 2000, 1665, 1600, 1580 NMR CDC13 6 ppm 0.90 4.13 12H,m , 1.24 3H,d , 3.25 2H,t , 4.20 4.93 1H,m , 4.65 2H,t , 6.79 1H,d , 7.77 8.10 2H,m , 12.20 lH,br Elemental analysis for C17H23NO2.HCi C H N Calcd. 65.90 7.81 4.52 Found 65.99 7.73 4.50Example 91 1 2, 3 Dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino l propanone hydrochloride isomerEMI63.1 a 1 2, 3 Dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino 1propanone N acetyl L a phenylglycinate The crystallization and recrystallization mother liquors obtained in Example 90 a were combined and concentrated under reduced pressure.The resulting residue was dissolved in 250 ml of water and this solution was alkalified with a 10 aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide. The oily material so separated was extracted three times with 100 ml portions of benzene.The benzene layer was washed with water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then distilled under reduced pressure to remove the solvent. Thus, there was obtained 15.0 g of an oily material containing a large amount of the isomer.This oily material was dissolved in 150 ml of acetone, and 10.6 g of N acetyl L a phenylglycine was added thereto and dissolved therein by the application of heat. After the solution was allowed to cool, the solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure and the resulting solid residue was recrystallized twice from a solvent mixture of acetone and isopropyl ether 1 1 to obtain 9.0 g of l 2,3 dihydro 5benzofuranyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino 1 propanone N acetylL a phenylglycinate, fa 23 40.90 C l.O, methanol , M.P.110.0 111.00C. IR KBr cm l 3240, 3200, 3060, 2970, 2950, 2930, 2750 2000, 1670, 1600, 1580, 1545 NMR CDC1, 6 ppm 0.77 2.27 6H,m r 1.03 3H,d , 1.98 3H,s , 2.37 4.17 7H,m , 3.17 2H,t , 4.58 2H,t , 5.23 1H,d , 6.65 1H, d , 6.90 7.86 8H,m , 13.70 1H, br Elemental analysis for C27H34N2O5 C H N Calcd. 69.51 7.35 6.00 Found 69.56 7.32 6.15 b 1 2,3 Dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino 1propanone hydrochloride 4.5 g of the 1 2,3 dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 methyl 3piperidino l propanone N acetyl L a phenylglycinate obtained in a was dissolved in 50 ml of water and the resulting solution was alkalified with a 10 96 aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide. The oily material so separated was extracted three times with 50 ml portions of benzene. The benzene layer was washed with water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then concentrated under reduced pressure to a volume of about 50 ml. This solution. was acidified by the addition of benzene saturated with hydrogen chloride and then distilled under reduced pressure to remove the solvent. The resulting solid residue was recrystallized from ethanol to obtain 2.7 g of 1 2, 3 dihydro 5 benzofuranyl 2 methyl 3 piperidino l propanone hydrochloride, a12D3 42.20 C l.O, methanol , M.P.198.5 199.50C dec. . IR KBr cm 2940, 2800 2000, 1665, 1600, 1580 NMR CDC1, 6 ppm 0.97 4.17 12H,m , 1.28 3H,d , 3.27 2H,t , 4.20 4.97 1H,m , 4.68 2H,t , 6.83 1H, d , 7.80 8.13 2H,m , 12.13 lH,br Elemental analysis for C17H23NO2.HCl C H N Calcd. 65.90 7.81 4.52 Found 66.03 7.76 4.45 By the application of the similar procedure as described inExample 85, the compounds of Examples 92 124 below were obtained. EMI65.1 Table 13 EMI65.2 SEP Nelting SEP point SEP Elemental SEP analysis tb Example SEP R SEP A SEP C SEP IR KBr cm 1 SEP NMR CDC 3 SEP ppm SEP Molecular SEP upper SEP row SEP Calcd. tb No. SEP Recrystn. SEP formula SEP lower SEP row SEP Found tb SEP solvent SEP C SEP H SEP N tb 92 SEP CH5 SEP SEP 186.0 187.5 SEP 2980,2950, SEP 1.29 3H, SEP d , SEP 1.72 4.96 SEP C16H21NO2.HCl SEP 64.97 SEP 7.50 SEP 4.74 tb SEP dec. SEP 2910,2870, SEP 11H. SEP m . SEP 3.26 2H, SEP t SEP 65.07 SEP 7.44 SEP 4.84 tb SEP isopropanol SEP 2820 2100, SEP 4.67 2H, SEP t , SEP 6.77 1H, tb SEP ethylether SEP 1670,1605. SEP d , SEP 7.69 8.09 2H, SEP m , tb SEP 1590.1245 SEP 12.26 1H, SEP br tb 93 SEP SEP SEP 173.0 174.0 SEP 2940,2870, SEP 0.85 5.05 15H, SEP m , SEP 1.32 SEP C18H25NO2.HCl SEP 66.76 SEP 8.09 SEP 4.33 tb SEP dec. SEP 2800 2200, SEP 3H, SEP d , SEP 3.28 2H, SEP t . SEP 66.85 SEP 7.92 SEP 4.48 tb SEP SEP 1670,1605, SEP 4.70 2H, SEP t , SEP 6.81 1H, tb SEP 1590.1245 SEP d , SEP 7.75 8.18 2H,m tb SEP 11.98 1H, SEP br tb 94 SEP SEP SEP 160.0 161.0 SEP 2940,2870, SEP 0.92 4.95 17H, SEP m , SEP 1.28 SEP C19H27NO2.HCl SEP 67.54 SEP 8.35 SEP 4,15 tb SEP dec. SEP 2800 2100, SEP 3H, SEP d , SEP 3.28 2H, SEP t , SEP 67.65 SEP 8.42 SEP 4.18 tb SEP SEP 1670,1605, SEP 4.68 2H, SEP t , SEP 6.82 1H, tb SEP 1590,1240 SEP d , SEP 7.75 8.15 2H. SEP m , tb SEP 11.93 1H, SEP br tb 95 SEP C2H5 SEP SEP 185.0 186.0 SEP 2960,2860, SEP 0.92 3H, SEP t , SEP 1.27 4.97 SEP C17H23NO2.HCl SEP 65.90 SEP 7.81 SEP 4.52 tb SEP SEP 2800 2100, SEP 13H, SEP m , SEP 3.28 2H, SEP t . SEP 65.86 SEP 7.78 SEP 4.88 tb SEP 1660,1605, SEP 4.68 2H, SEP t , SEP 6.80 1H, tb SEP 1585,1255 SEP d , SEP 7.77 8.20 2H, SEP m . tb SEP 12.18 1H, SEP br tb Table 13 continued EMI66.1 96 SEP SEP SEP 148.0 150.0 SEP 2940,2910, SEP 0.92 3H, SEP t , SEP 1.30 4.97 SEP C17H27NO2.HCl SEP 67.54 SEP 8.35 SEP 4.15 tb SEP tetrahydrofuran SEP 2840,2770 SEP 17H, SEP m , SEP 3.30 2H, SEP t , SEP 67.63 SEP 8.52 SEP 4.27 tb SEP 2100,1650, SEP 4.70 2H, SEP t , SEP 6.85 1H, tb SEP 1600,1240 SEP d , SEP 7.87 8.20 2H, SEP m , tb SEP 12.12 1H, SEP br tb 97 SEP SEP SEP 117.0 119.0 SEP 2950,2920, SEP 0.88 3H, SEP t , SEP 1.17 4.90 SEP C20H29NO2.HCl SEP 68.26 SEP 8.59 SEP 3.98 tb SEP SEP 2850,2800 SEP 19H,m , SEP 3.22 2H, SEP t , SEP 68.28 SEP 8.43 SEP 4.00 tb SEP 2100.1655, SEP 4.63 2H, SEP t , SEP 6.75 1H, tb SEP 1605,1250 SEP d , SEP 7.73 8.13 2H, SEP m , tb SEP 12.00 1H, SEP br tb 98 SEP n C3H7 SEP SEP 160.5 161.5 SEP 2960,2930, SEP 0.65 5.02 18H, SEP m , SEP 3.27 SEP C18H25NO2.HCl SEP 66.76 SEP 8.09 SEP 4.33 tb SEP dec. SEP 2880,2780 SEP 2H, SEP t , SEP 4.68 2H, SEP t , SEP 66.86 SEP 8.15 SEP 4.27 tb SEP isopropanol SEP 200,1660, SEP 6.81 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.82 8.22 tb SEP ethylether SEP 1600,1580, SEP 2H, SEP m , SEP 12,38 1H, SEP br tb SEP 1255 tb 99 SEP SEP SEP 151.5 152.5 SEP 2960,2940, SEP 0.62 4.91 20H, SEP m , SEP 3.28 SEP C19H27NO2.HCl SEP 67.54 SEP 8.35 SEP 4.15 tb SEP tetrahydrofuran SEP 2870,2800 SEP 2H, SEP t , SEP 4.68 2H, SEP t , SEP 67.65 SEP 8.46 SEP 4.19 tb SEP 2100,1660, SEP 6.81 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.78 8.15 tb SEP 1600,1240 SEP 2H, SEP m . SEP 12.10 1H, SEP br tb 100 SEP SEP SEP 159.0 160.0 SEP 2960,2940, SEP 0.62 4.95 22H, SEP m . SEP 9.28 SEP C20H29NO2.HCl SEP 68.26 SEP 8.59 SEP 3.98 tb SEP isopropanol SEP 2980,2800 SEP 2H. SEP t . SEP 4.68 2H, SEP t , SEP 68.34 SEP 8.68 SEP 3.90 tb SEP ethylether SEP 2200,1655. SEP 6.82 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.78 8.15 tb SEP 1600,1240 SEP 2H, SEP m , SEP 12,18 1H, SEP br tb Table 13 continued EMI67.1 101 SEP iso C3H7 SEP SEP 181.0 182.0 SEP 2980,2900, SEP 0.85 3H, SEP d , SEP 1.08 3H,d SEP C18H25NO2.HCl SEP 66.76 SEP 8.09 SEP 4.33 tb SEP SEP 1800 2100, SEP 0.52 4.18 11H, SEP m , SEP 66.74 SEP 8.14 SEP 4.24 tb SEP 1670,1605, SEP 3.28 2H, SEP t , SEP 4.22 4.98 tb SEP 1240 SEP 1H, SEP m , SEP 4.68 2H, SEP t , tb SEP 6.83 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.82 8.22 tb SEP 2H, SEP m , SEP 12.32 1H, SEP br tb 102 SEP SEP SEP 181.5 182.5 SEP 2980,2890, SEP 0.45 4.95 14H,m , SEP 0.81 SEP C19H27NO2.HCl SEP 67.54 SEP 8.35 SEP 4.15 tb SEP tetranydrofuran SEP 2800 2100, SEP 3H, SEP d , SEP 1.18 3H, SEP d , SEP 67.63 SEP 8.49 SEP 4.08 tb SEP 1670,1605, SEP 3.32 2H, SEP t , SEP 4.68 2H, tb SEP 1250 SEP t , SEP 6.78 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.75 SEP 8.18 2H, SEP m , SEP 11.95 1H, tb SEP br tb 103 SEP n C4H9 SEP SEP 179.0 180.0 SEP 2960,2940, SEP 0.58 4.95 20H, SEP m , SEP 3.27 SEP C19H27NO2.HCl SEP 67.54 SEP 8.35 SEP 4.15 tb SEP dec. SEP 2880,2800 SEP 2H, SEP t , SEP 4.68 2H, SEP t , SEP 67.69 SEP 8.40 SEP 4.09 tb SEP isopropanol SEP 2100,1660, SEP 6.81 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.78 8.18 tb SEP ethylether SEP 1600,1245 SEP 2H, SEP m , SEP 12.35 1H, SEP br tb 104 SEP SEP SEP 180.0 181.0 SEP 2960,2940, SEP 0.55 4.95 22H, SEP m , SEP 3.28 SEP C20H29NO2.HCl SEP 68.26 SEP 8.59 SEP 3.98 tb SEP dec. SEP 2800,2800 SEP 2H, SEP t , SEP 4.68 2H, SEP t , SEP 68.33 SEP 8.62 SEP 4.05 tb SEP SEP 2200,1650, SEP 6.81 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.75 8.22 tb SEP 1600,1240 SEP 2H, SEP m , SEP 12.07 1H, SEP br tb 105 SEP iso C4H9 SEP SEP 173.0 174.0 SEP 2930,2750 SEP 0.70 4.97 14H, SEP m , SEP 0.88 SEP C19H27NO2.HCl SEP 67.54 SEP 8.35 SEP 4.15 tb SEP tetranydrofuran SEP 2000,1650, SEP 3H, SEP d , SEP 1.02 3H, SEP d , SEP 67.43 SEP 8.41 SEP 4.05 tb SEP 1595,1575, SEP 3.28 2H, SEP t , SEP 4.70 2H, tb SEP 1250 SEP t , SEP 6.83 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.83 SEP 8.20 2H, SEP m , SEP 12.47 1H, tb SEP br tb Table 13 continued EMI68.1 106 SEP iso C4H9 SEP SEP 156.0 157.0 SEP 2950,2850, SEP 0.50 4.93 16H, SEP m , SEP 0.92 SEP C20H29NO2.HCl SEP 68.26 SEP 8.59 SEP 3.98 tb SEP tetrahydrofuran SEP 2750 2200, SEP 3H, SEP d , SEP 1.05 3H, SEP d , SEP 68.38 SEP 8.64 SEP 4.03 tb SEP ethylether SEP 1655,1600, SEP 3.28 2H, SEP t , SEP 4.68 2H, tb SEP 1580,1260, SEP 5 , SEP 6.82 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.80 SEP 1240 SEP 8.20 2H, SEP m , SEP 12.20 1H, tb SEP br tb 107 SEP n C5H11 SEP SEP 164.0 165.0 SEP 2950,2920, SEP 0.58 4.98 22H, SEP m , SEP 3.30 SEP C20H29NO2.HCl SEP 68.26 SEP 8.59 SEP 3.98 tb SEP tetrahydrofuran SEP 2850,2700 SEP 2H, SEP t , SEP 4.70 2H, SEP t , SEP 68.19 SEP 8.47 SEP 3.83 tb SEP 2200,1650, SEP 6.86 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.88 8.22 tb SEP 1600,1250 SEP 2H, SEP m , SEP 12.45 1H, SEP br tb 108 SEP SEP SEP 174.0 175.0 SEP 2910,2840, SEP 0.52 4.92 24H, SEP m , SEP 3.25 SEP C21H31NO2.HCl SEP 68.93 SEP 8.81 SEP 3.83 tb SEP SEP 2790 2200, SEP 2H, SEP t , SEP 4.65 2H, SEP t , SEP 69.04 SEP 8.89 SEP 3.96 tb SEP 1645,1600, SEP 6.79 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.78 8.12 tb SEP 1240 SEP 2H, SEP m , SEP 12,13 1H, SEP br tb 109 SEP n C6H13 SEP SEP 131.0 133.0 SEP 2940,2910, SEP 0.43 4.93 24H, SEP m , SEP 3.28 SEP C21H31NO2.HCl SEP 68.93 SEP 8.81 SEP 3.83 tb SEP SEP 2850,2770 SEP 2H, SEP t , SEP 4.68 2H, SEP t , SEP 68.86 SEP 8.85 SEP 3.90 tb SEP 2200,1650, SEP 6.82 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.83 8.20 tb SEP 1600,1245 SEP 2H, SEP m , SEP 12.48 1H, SEP br tb 110 SEP SEP SEP 127.0 129.0 SEP 2940,2910, SEP 0.52 4.95 26H, SEP m , SEP 3.28 SEP C22H33NO2.HCl SEP 69.54 SEP 9.02 SEP 3.69 tb SEP tetrahydrofuran SEP 2840,2790 SEP 2H, SEP t , SEP 4.68 2H, SEP t , SEP 69.65 SEP 8.94 SEP 3,75 tb SEP ethylether SEP 2200,1650, SEP 6.84 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.82 8.18 tb SEP 1600,1240 SEP 2H, SEP m , SEP 12.13 1H, SEP br tb 111 SEP SEP SEP 174.0 176.0 SEP 2950,2890, SEP 0.85 5.02 20H, SEP m , SEP 3.30 SEP C20H27NO2.HCl SEP 68.65 SEP 8.07 SEP 4.00 tb SEP tetrahydrofuran SEP 2850,2770 SEP 2H, SEP t , SEP 4.68 2H, SEP t , SEP 68.58 SEP 8.12 SEP 3.97 tb SEP 2000,1660, SEP 6.79 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.78 8.32 tb SEP 1600,1580, SEP 2H, SEP m , SEP 12,38 1H, SEP br tb SEP 1245 tb EMI69.1 112 SEP SEP SEP 178.0 179.0 SEP 2950,2930, SEP 0.90 4.97 22H, SEP m , SEP 3.28 SEP C21H29NO2.HCl SEP 69.31 SEP 8.31 SEP 3.85 tb SEP SEP 2890,2860, SEP 2H, SEP t , SEP 4.68 2H, SEP t , SEP 69.42 SEP 8.38 SEP 3.69 tb SEP 2750 2100, SEP 6.84 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.83 8.23 tb SEP 1655,1600, SEP 2H, SEP m , SEP 12.20 1H, SEP br tb SEP 1250 tb 113 SEP SEP SEP 191.0 193.0 SEP 2940.2900, SEP 0.73 4.90 22H, SEP m , SEP 3.27 SEP C21H29NO2.HCl SEP 69.31 SEP 8.31 SEP 3.85 tb SEP dec. SEP 2860,2750 SEP 2H, SEP t , SEP 4.67 2H, SEP t , SEP 69.50 SEP 8.26 SEP 3.87 tb SEP SEP 2100,1655, SEP 6.83 1h, SEP d , SEP 7.93 8.27 tb SEP 1600,1580. SEP 2H, SEP m , SEP 12.53 1H, SEP br tb SEP 1255 tb 114 SEP SEP SEP 166.0 168.0 SEP 2920,2850, SEP 0.77 4.93 24H, SEP m , SEP 3.28 SEP C22H31NO2.HCl SEP 69.91 SEP 8.53 SEP 3.71 tb SEP dec. SEP 2770 2100, SEP 2H, SEP t , SEP 4.68 2H, SEP t , SEP 70.01 SEP 8.47 SEP 3.69 tb SEP SEP 1640,1595, SEP 6.84 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.83 8.27 tb SEP 1240 SEP 2H, SEP m , SEP 12,23 1H, SEP br tb 115 SEP SEP SEP 188.0 189.0 SEP 2930,2860, SEP 0.55 4.90 21H, SEP m , SEP 3.30 SEP C21H29NO2.HCl.1 2 Et 2O SEP 68.89 SEP 8.80 SEP 3.49 tb SEP dec. SEP 2770 2000, SEP 2H, SEP t , SEP 4.70 2H, SEP t , SEP 68.95 SEP 8.83 SEP 3.57 tb SEP isopropanol SEP 1660,1600, SEP 6.83 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.68 8.12 tb SEP ethylether SEP 1240 SEP 2H, SEP m , SEP 12,37 1H, SEP br tb 116 SEP SEP SEP 185.0 186.0 SEP 2940,2860, SEP 0.53 4.97 24H,m , SEP 3.30 SEP C22H31NO2.HCl.1 2 Et 2O SEP 69.46 SEP 8.99 SEP 3.38 tb SEP dec. SEP 2780 2000, SEP 2H, SEP t , SEP 4.69 2H, SEP t, SEP 69.53 SEP 8.85 SEP 3.50 tb SEP SEP 1660,1600, SEP 6.83 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.72 8.13 tb SEP 1245 SEP 2H, SEP m , SEP 12.03 1H, SEP br tb 117 SEP CH3 SEP SEP 192.0 193.5 SEP 1960,2930, SEP 0.70 4.97 15H, SEP m , SEP 1.30 SEP C18H25NO2.HCl SEP 66.76 SEP 8.09 SEP 4.33 tb SEP dec, SEP 2880,2800 SEP 3H, SEP d , SEP 3.30 2H, SEP t , SEP 66.85 SEP 8.16 SEP 4.28 tb SEP ethanol SEP 2200,1670, SEP 4.70 2H, SEP t , SEP 6.83 1H, tb SEP tetrahydrofuran SEP 1600,1245 SEP d , SEP 7.77 8.17 2H, SEP m , tb SEP 12.03 1H, SEP br tb Table 13 continued EMI70.1 SEP tb 118 SEP SEP SEP oil SEP 2950.2830, SEP 1.00 5.03 15H, SEP m , SEP 1.29 SEP C18H25NO2.HCl.H2O SEP 63.24 SEP 8.26 SEP 4.10 tb SEP 2200,1670, SEP 3H, SEP d , SEP 3.27 2H, SEP t , SEP 63.31 SEP 8.33 SEP 4.19 tb SEP 1600,1590, SEP 4.68 2H, SEP t , SEP 6.81 1H, tb SEP 1250 SEP d , SEP 7.77 8.17 2H,m , tb SEP 11,83 1H, SEP br tb 119 SEP SEP SEP 185.0 186.0 SEP 2970,2890, SEP 0.66 5.00 12H, SEP m , SEP 0.84 SEP C18H25NO2.HCl SEP 66.76 SEP 8.09 SEP 4.33 tb SEP dec. SEP 2800 2200, SEP 3H, SEP d ,. SEP 1. 3H, SEP d . SEP 66.72 SEP 8.00 SEP 4.51 tb SEP ethanol SEP 1670,1610, SEP 3.32 2H, SEP t , SEP 4.73 2H, tb SEP tetrahydrofuran SEP 1590,1250 SEP t , SEP 6.88 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.87 SEP 8.20 2H, SEP m , SEP 12.10 1H, tb SEP br tb 120 SEP SEP SEP 178.0 179.0 SEP 2970,2930, SEP 0.50 4.97 11H, SEP m , SEP 0.82 SEP C19H27NO2.HCl.1 2H2O SEP 65.79 SEP 8.43 SEP 4.04 tb SEP isopropanol SEP 2800,2800 SEP 3H, SEP d , SEP 0.95 3H, SEP d , SEP 65.70 SEP 8.28 SEP 4.17 tb SEP 2200,1670, SEP 1.29 3H, SEP d , SEP 3.28 2H, tb SEP 1605,1585. SEP t , SEP 4.70 2H, SEP t , SEP 6.83 tb SEP 1250 SEP 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.77 8.13 2H, tb SEP m , SEP 12.17 1H, SEP br tb 121 SEP SEP SEP 174.0 176.0 SEP 2970,2930, SEP 1.33 3H, SEP d , SEP 1.57 4.97 SEP C23H27NO2.HCl SEP 71.58 SEP 7.31 SEP 3.63 tb SEP dec. SEP 2800 2200, SEP 12H, SEP m , SEP 3.25 2H SEP t , SEP 71.66 SEP 7.42 SEP 3.70 tb SEP SEP 1655.1600, SEP 4.67 2H.t , SEP 6.81 1H, tb SEP 1580,1250 SEP d , SEP 7.23 5H, SEP s , SEP 7.80 SEP 8.17 2H, SEP m , SEP 12.37 1H, tb SEP br tb Table 13 continued EMI71.1 122 SEP SEP SEP 199.0 201.0 SEP 2950,2940, SEP 1.26 3H, SEP d , SEP 1.47 4.93 SEP C24H29NO2.HCl SEP 72.07 SEP 7.56 SEP 3.50 tb SEP dec. SEP 2800 2200, SEP 14H, SEP m , SEP 3.23 2H, SEP t , SEP 72.18 SEP 7.62 SEP 3.48 tb SEP ethanol SEP 1660,1600, SEP 4,65 2H, SEP t , SEP 6.79 1H, tb SEP 1245 SEP d , SEP 6.83 7.47 5H, SEP m . tb SEP 7.77 8.10 2H, SEP m . SEP 11.77 tb SEP 1H, SEP br tb 123 SEP SEP SEP 195.0 196.0 SEP 2980,2920. SEP 0.93 1.53 6H, SEP m , SEP 1.63 SEP C20H27NO4.HCl SEP 62.90 SEP 7.39 SEP 3.67 tb SEP isopropanol SEP 2800 2200, SEP 5.07 14H, SEP m , SEP 3.23 2H, SEP 62.85 SEP 7.20 SEP 3.71 tb SEP 1720,1660, SEP t , SEP 4.67 2H, SEP t , SEP 6.79 tb SEP 1600,1585, SEP 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.77 8.13 2H, tb SEP 1250 SEP m , SEP 1183 1H, SEP br tb SEP tb 124 SEP SEP SEP 202.0 204.0 SEP 3320,2920, SEP 1.31 3H, SEP d , SEP 1.57 5.00 SEP C17H23NO3.HCl SEP 62.67 SEP 7.43 SEP 4.30 tb SEP ethanol SEP 2870,2780 SEP 14H, SEP m , SEP 4.67 2H, SEP t , SEP 62.79 SEP 7.55 SEP 4.27 tb SEP 2200,1655, SEP 6.83 1H, SEP d , SEP 7.77 8.10 tb SEP 1605,1585, SEP 2H, SEP m tb SEP 1250 tb NMR DMSO d4 CD3OD . IR Noat , NMR CDCl3 CD3OD