# Methods and apparatus for forming glass articles.

## Abstract
Method and apparatus for forming glass articles such as bottles and the like utilize flows of pressurized cold cryogen vapor 80 that are introduced into mold cavities 60 which are being used to mold glass articles 54 . The cold cryogen vapor 80 hastens cooling and solidification of the articles 54 so that the time during which the articles must be retained in their molds 62 is significantly reduced. Reduc tions in mold retention times enable the apparatus to be operated at increased speeds, whereby its productivity is significantly increased. Productivity increases of 15 percent and often more can be achieved at relatively low expense. The use of cold cryogen vapor 80 introduction into mold cavities 60 is applicable to a variety of glass molding techniques including press molding and blow molding. Cold cryogen vapor introduction can be used in staged molding procedures, for example in operations where a hollow blank or parison of glass is first press formed in a roughing mold, and is then blow molded in a finishing mold to assume its final form in such a staged procedure, cold cryogen vapor introduction may be used in either or both of the roughing and finishing stages to expedite solidification and to permit increased productivity. In preferred practice the cold cryogen vapor is nitrogen gas that is released from a container of liquid nitrogen. Cold cryogen vapor may be mixed with flows of cooling and or blowing gases for delivery with these gases into mold cavities. In preferred practice, cold cryogen vapor is delivered into the mold cavities without being mixed with other flows of cooling and or blowing gases.