# VIDEO DISPLAY CONTROL SYSTEM FOR ANIMATION PATTERN IMAGE

## Claims
Videoanzeigesteuersystem zur Anzeige eines Videobildes auf dem Schirm einer Videoanzeigeeinheit 3 , mit

## Description
This invention relates to a display controller for use in terminal equipment for a computer or video machines and particularly to such a display controller of the type in which animation pattern images can be displayed on a display screen. There have recently been proposed a video display controller for a video game machine or the like by which a combination of an animation pattern image and still pattern image can be displayed on a display screen. For displaying an animation pattern formed by, for example, 8 x 8 dots or display elements on the screen, data representative of the animation pattern image and composed of a bit pattern of 8 x 8 bits is read from a video RAM and fed to a CRT display unit. And, the display position of this animation pattern on the display screen is sequentially shifted to achieve a mobile image. At his time, a still pattern image is also displayed image. U.S. Patent US A 4,243,984 discloses a video display controller of the kind described above. With the conventional display controller, however, each animation pattern can be displayed only in one selected color. Thus, it has not been possible to display a multi color animation patterns on the display screen. Also, with the conventional controller, when two animation patterns overlap the overlapping portion is displayed in a color of the animation pattern having a higher priority. Thus, the overlapping condition can not have been properly expressed on the screen. The conventional video display controller is so designed as to detect a collision of one animation pattern with another on the screen. This function is very useful for a game machine in which a collision of an animation pattern such as a cannonball with another animation pattern such as an airplane has to be detected to play the game. The conventional video display controller, however, can not have detected the position on the screen at which the collision occurs, and therefore a central processing unit controlling the video display controller has to have obtained the collision position by executing a program for the detection of the collision position. Furthermore, with this conventional video display controller, any collisions which occur on the screen have detected, so that an additional program must be provided for detecting only the required collisions. EP A 0 099 188 pertains to the display of a multiplicity of moving objects on raster scan display during the play of an electronic video game. The known display controller comprises memory means for storing animation pattern data which represent an animation pattern composed of pattern elements each corresponding to at least one of display elements on a screen. Furthermore the memory means store display position data specifiying a display position which is a position on said screen and also store at least two color data specifying colors corresponding respectively two said pattern element groups. The display controller further includes display control means which comprise a reading means for reading said animation pattern data, said display position and said color data from said memory means and displaying means for displaying an animation pattern image corresponding to said animation pattern at said display portion on said screen in said colors in accordance with said animation pattern data, said display position data and said color data read from said memory means. The display controller receives game data from the game during vertical blank periods, the game data specifying object images and their screen positions desired for the next display in the sequene of raster scan displays. The controller then reads color intensity information for each display pixel out of a permanent memory at the time the pixel is displayed on the raster scan display surface. However, with this video display controller each animation pattern can be displayed only in one selected color. The known video display controller can not detect the position on the screen at which a collision occurs. There has also been proposed another video display control system of which block diagram is shown in FIG. 1. However, this conventional video display controller is disadvantageous in that the number of animation pattern images or sprites which can be displayed on one horizontal scanning line is relatively small for example, four . This has much limited a pattern arrangement on the display screen. The reason for this will now be described with reference to the drawings. A central processing unit CPU 1 shown in FIG. 1 controls this conventional video display controller 2 to cause selected pattern images to be displayed on a screen of a CRT display unit 3. A memory 4 stores programs which control the CPU 1 and provides for work areas for storing data to be processed by the CPU 1. As shown in FIG. 2, a video RAM VRAM 5 comprises a still pattern table area 5a for storing data representative of dot patterns of still patterns, a still pattern control table area 5b for storing data representative of the display position of each still pattern, a still pattern color table area 5c for storing a color code 4 bits of each still pattern, an animation pattern table area 5d for storing data representative of a plurality of animation patterns, and an animation pattern control table area 5e for storing data representative of the display position of each animation pattern. The animation pattern table area 5d stores 256 animation pattern data P0, P1, P2 ... P255 each composed of 8 bytes FIG. 3 a . Thus, each of the animation pattern data P0 to P255 represents an animation pattern which is composed of 8 X 8 bits one example is shown in FIG. 3 b . In this case, bits 1 of each pattern data represent the foreground of the corresponding animation pattern, while bits 0 thereof represent the background of the animation pattern. As shown in FIG. 4 a , the animation pattern control table area 5e stores 32 tables C0, C1, C3 ... C31 each composed of 4 bytes FIG. 4 b . A name of a selected animation pattern Pi i 0, 1, 2 ... 255 is stored in the third byte of each animation pattern control table Ck k 0, 1 ... 31 , and the column position X coordinate and row position Y coordinate of the display position of the animation pattern Pi are stored in the second byte and first byte of the table Ck, respectively. A color code of the animation pattern Pi and EC bit are stored in the fourth byte of the table Ck. As shown in FIG. 5, the display position X, Y means that the number of display elements counting right horizontally from the upper left end of the display screen representing the origin 0, 0 is X while the number of display elements counting vertically downwardly from the upper left end of the screen is Y. This display position X, Y represents the upper left end of the animation pattern Pi displayed on the screen. The display controller 2 will now be described. A timing signal generator 6 produces master clock pulses in accordance with an output of a crystal oscillator provided therein, and based on these clock pules, horizontal and vertical synchronization signals SYNC are produced and fed to the CRT display unit 3. Also, the timing signal generator 6 feeds dot clock pulses DCP to a clock input terminal of a horizontal counter 7. The horizontal counter 7 serves to determine the display position of each display element on the screen in the horizontal direction, and the display position is shifted by one dot in the right hand direction each time the contents NH of the horizontal counter 7 are incremented by one. When the count NH is 0, the display element at the left end of each scanning line on the screen is displayed, and when the count NH is 255, the display element at the right end of each scanning line on the screen is displayed. A horizontal non display period is established when the count NH is in the range of between 256 and 340. Each time the count NH reaches 340, the horizontal counter 7 feeds a pulse signal HP to a clock input terminal of a vertical counter 8. The vertical counter 8 serves to determine the display position of each display element on the screen in the vertical direction, that is to say, to determine the number of the horizontal scanning line. The horizontal scanning line is shifted downwardly by one each time the count NV of the vertical counter 8 is incremented by one. When the count NV is 0, the display elements on the uppermost horizontal scanning line are displayed. When the count NV is 191, the display elements on the lowermost horizontal scanning line are displayed. A vertical non display period is established when the count NV is in the range of between 192 and 261. An image data processing circuit 9 is connected to the CPU 1 via an interface circuit 10 and also to the VRAM 5. The image data processing circuit 9 serves to write data, fed from the CPU 1, into the respective table areas of the VRAM 5 and also to read the data written into the VRAM 5 therefrom under the control of the CPU 1 to effect various display controls. More specifically, in the case of the still pattern display, the image data processing circuit 9 reads from the still pattern control table area 5b each of the data representative of the names and display positions of the still patterns and color codes thereof, which are written thereto during the above mentioned vertical non display period, immediately before the display of the corresponding still pattern on the display screen, that is to say, that time period corresponding to 8 display elements before the display of this still pattern, and in accordance with the read data, the image data processing circuit 9 reads from the still pattern table area 5a the dot data representative of the still pattern to be displayed at this time and loads the corresponding dot data and color code into a shift register and a color information register, respectively. And, during the display period, the bits contained in the shift register are shifted out one by one, and the color code in the color information register, which represents a color of the foreground of the still pattern, is fed to a color palette circuit 11 in accordance with the output of the shift register. The color palette circuit 11 converts each of the color codes into color data RD, GD and BD representing red, green and blue, respectively, and a digital analog converter 12 converts the color data RD, GD and BD into analog color signals R, G and B, respectively, and feeds them to the CRT display unit 3 to thereby display the display elements of the still pattern on the screen in the selected color. The display of each animation pattern is effected by the image data processing circuit 9 and four animation pattern processing circuits 13. More specifically, under the control of the CPU 1, during the vertical non display period, the image data processing circuit 9 sequentially writes into the animation pattern control table Ck the name data, display position data, color code and EC bit data of each animation pattern Pi to be displayed in the next frame. The image data processing circuit 9 sequentially reads and checks the Y coordinates of the animation patterns in the control tables C0 to C31 during each horizontal scanning period to determine whether any animation patterns should be displayed during the next horizontal scanning period, and loads into a register address data representative of those addresses of the animation pattern control tables Ck containing data representative of animation patterns Pi to be displayed next. During each horizontal non display period, the data representative of the X coordinates in those animation pattern control tables Ck designated by the above address data are loaded respectively to X counters of animation pattern processing circuits 13. Also, the dot data each representative of a row of display elements of a respective one of the animation patterns to be displayed on the next horizontal scanning line are read from the corresponding addresses of the animation pattern table area 5d, which are determined by the count NV of the vertical counter 8 and the Y coordinates in the animation control tables Ck, and are loaded into corresponding pattern shift registers of the animation pattern processing circuits 13. Thus, the dot data representative of the display elements of the animation patterns to be displayed on the next horizontal scanning line and the data representative of the display start positions X of the display elements are sequentially stored in the pattern shift registers and X counters of the animation pattern processing circuits 13. At the same time, the color code of the foreground of each animation pattern is transferred from the fourth byte of the animation control table Ck to each animation pattern processing circuit 13. Then, the next horizontal scanning is started, and each time the count NH of the horizontal counter 7 is incremented by one, the count of each X counter is decremented by one. When the count of each X counter reaches 0 , the bits contained in the corresponding pattern shift register are sequentially shifted out one by one in synchronization with the count up of the horizontal counter 7 so that the dot pattern corresponding to these bits are displayed on the CRT screen in the selected color. In this case, when 1 signal is outputted from the pattern shift register, the animation pattern processing circuit 13 feeds the color code to the color palette circuit 11, so that a display element represented by the 1 signal is displayed on the screen in a color corresponding to this color code. When the output of the pattern shift register is 0 , the animation pattern processing circuit 13 does not output the color code but outputs a signal S2 which allows the image data processing circuit 9 to display a display element of the still image. Thus, the display elements of the still image are displayed in the positions corresponding to the background of the animation pattern. With the above mentioned conventional display controller, when part of the animation pattern image is hidden on the left side of the screen, the value of X of the display position X, Y becomes negative. As a result, even when the count of the X counter is decremented one by one, the count will never reach 0, so that the proper display position of the animation pattern image can not be determined. Therefore, to compensate for this, the screen is shifted left by a predetermined number m of display elements for example, m 32 to provide an imaginary screen as shown by a broken line in FIG. 5, and the counting of the X counter is started from the left end of this imaginary screen so as to shift the position X, Y on the imaginary screen to the position X m, Y on an actual screen, so that the animation pattern image displayed on the screen is shifted left by m display elements. This is effected by the bit data EC in the animation pattern control table Ck. More specifically, when the bit data EC is 1 , the count down of the X counter is started earlier by count m to effect the above operation. With this method, the above mentioned disadvantages can be eliminated, but since the count down of the X counter must be started earlier by count m , the data required must be loaded into the X counter and pattern shift register of each animation pattern processing circuit 13 before the count down of the X counter is started. And, the time available for the loading of the data into the animation pattern processing circuit 13 during the horizontal non display period is much shortened accordingly. For example, when magnifying an animation pattern of 16 x 16 display elements twice, the pattern image must be shifted by 32 display elements, in which case more than one thirds of the horizontal non display period is used by this shifting, this horizontal non display period corresponding to 85 count between count 256 and count 340 of the horizontal counter 7. As a result, the data which can be loaded into each animation pattern processing circuit 13 is reduced, so that the number of the animation patterns which can be displayed on one horizontal scanning line is reduced. There have also been proposed display controllers of the types shown in U. S. Patent Nos. US A 4,262,302, US A 4,286,320 and US A 4,374,395, however none of them have overcome the above described deficiencies of the conventional controllers. It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a video display controller by which multi color animation patterns can be displayed on a screen. It is another object of the present invention to provide a video display controller by which an overlapping portion of animation patterns can be displayed in a color which is obtained by effecting a certain operation on color codes of the animation patterns. It is a further object of the present invention to provide a video display controller by which the position on the screen at which a collision of one animation pattern with another can be detected. It is a further object of the present invention to provide a video display controller in which a collision of one animation pattern with another can selectively be detected. It is a further object of the present invention to provide a display controller of the type by which an increased number of animation patterns can be displayed on one horizontal scanning line of the screen. According to a first aspect of the present invention there is provided a video display control system for displaying a video image on a sreen of a video display unit comprising a memory means for storing first to Nth animation pattern data each representing an animation pattern composed of a predetermined number of pattern elements, each of said pattern elements corresponding to at least one of display elements on said screen, first to Nth display position data which specify first to Nth display positions, respectively, each of which is a position on said screen, and first to Nth color data specifying first to Nth colors, respectively and display control means which comprises reading means for reading said first to Nth animation pattern data, said first to Nth display position data an said first to Nth color data from said memory means characterized in that said display control means further comprises processing means for receiving said first to Nth animation pattern data, said first to Nth display position data and said first to Nth color data read from said memory means and for effecting a logical operation on said first to Nth animation pattern data, said processing means comprising first to Nth processing circuits having different priority levels and outputting said first to Nth color data, respectively operation means comprising logical operation circuit means for receiving said first to Nth color data outputted from said processing means and for producing, when said processing means outputs at least two color data among said first to Nth color data with respect to same display element on said screen, a new color data by effecting a logical operation on said at least two color data for at least two animation patterns to supply the new color data to said video display unit said operation means comprising a priority circuit means for selectively supplying color data outputted from one having the highest priority among the processing circuits corresponding to said at least two color data as said new color data. According to a second aspect of the present invention there is provided a video display control system for displaying a video image on a screen of a video display unit comprising a memory means for storing first to Nth animation pattern data each representing an animation pattern composed of a predetermined number of pattern elements, each of said pattern elements corresponding to at least one of said display elements on said screen, first to Nth display position data representing first to Nth display positions each of which is a position on said screen and display control means which comprises reading means for reading said first to Nth animation pattern data and said first to Nth display position data from said memory means processing means characterized in that said display control means further comprises for receiving said first to Nth animation pattern data and said first to Nth display position data and for serially outputting each of first to Nth pattern element data by which said first to Nth animation pattern data are constructed, respectively, each of Kth The invention will now be described by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which A video display control system shown in FIGS. 7 to 12 differs from the video display control system of FIGS. 1 to 4 in the following respects. A VRAM 5 in this video display control system further comprises, as shown in FIG. 7, an animation color table area 5f for storing a plurality of color codes with respect to each animation pattern so that each animation pattern can be displayed in a plurality of colors. An animation pattern control table area 5e of the VRAM 5 thirty two animation pattern control tables C0 to C31 as that of the conventional video display controller, however the fourth byte of each animation pattern control table Ck is not used, as shown in FIGS. 8 a and 8 b . The animation color table area 5f stores 32 memory blocks BC0 to BC31 each composed of eight bytes, as shown in FIG 9 a , the memory blocks BC0 to BC31 corresponding to the animation pattern control tables C0 to C31, respectively. The lower four bits of the first to eighth bytes of each of the memory blocks BC0 to BC31 store color codes representative of colors of the first to eight rows of display elements of the corresponding animation pattern. More specifically, display elements in the first row of an animation pattern, which are represented by bits 1 of the first byte of the corresponding animation pattern, are displayed in a color designated by a color code stored in the first byte of the corresponding memory block in the animation color table 5f. Similarly, display elements in the second to eight rows of the animation pattern are displayed respectively in colors designated by color codes stored in the second to eight bytes of the corresponding memory block in the animation color table 5f. FIG. 10 shows a block diagram of an image data processing circuit 9 of this video display controller. A bus CW 8 bits is used for writing data fed from a CPU 1, and a bus CR 8 bits is used for loading data into the CPU 1. A bus AH 10 bits and a bus AL 8 bits forms an address bus for designating addresses of the VRAM 5, the bus AH being the upper 10 bits of the address bus and the bus Al being the lower 8 bits thereof. A bus VW is used for writing data into the VRAM 5, and a bus VRL is used for reading data from the VRAM 5. A bus Clr is used for transferring color code and is connected to a color palette circuit 11. A register group B1 comprises registers B1a to B1e for storing data representative of the start addresses of the still pattern control table area 5b, still pattern color table area 5c, still pattern table area 5a, animation pattern control table 5e and animation pattern table 5d, respectively. Data representative of other addresses of theses tables replace the respective start address data under the control of the CPU 1 via the bus CW. A color information register B2 stores two kinds of still pattern color codes read from the still pattern color table area 5c and selectively outputs one of these color codes onto the color bus Clr in accordance with the state 1 or 0 of an output signal of a pattern shift register B3. The pattern shift register B3 converts parallel data, which is representative of the dot pattern of a row of display elements of a still pattern read from the VRAM 5 via the bus VRL, to serial data and feeds it to the color information register B2 to determine the color to be outputted to the color palette circuit 11. An animation pattern number counter B4 is a 7 bit counter which stores data representative of the number k animation pattern number of each animation pattern control table Ck and data representative of that address 1st byte in this embodiment of the table Ck FIG. 4 b in which the Y coordinate is stored. In this case, the upper 5 bits of the counter B4 represent the animation pattern number while the lower 2 bits designate respectively the Y coordinate, the X coordinate and the pattern name by the states 00 , 01 and 11 . When the animation pattern table 5e is searched to determine the animation patterns to be displayed on the next horizontal scanning line, the animation pattern number k is sequentially incremented in the animation pattern number counter B4. At this time, the lower 2 bits are always 0 states and designate only the Y coordinates stored in the animation pattern table 5e. This search checks the Y coordinate of each animation pattern control table Ck during the display period and compares it with the count NV of the vertical counter 8. And, when the animation pattern to be displayed is found, the contents of the animation pattern number counter B4 is loaded into an animation pattern number first in first out memory FIFO B5. In this case, the animation pattern numbers k 0 to 31 are stored from the smallest one, and when the animation pattern number FIFO B5 stores up to 8 animation pattern numbers, it will refuse a further loading of the animation pattern number thereinto. Thus, during the horizontal display period, after up to 8 data representative of animation pattern numbers of the animation pattern images to be displayed on the next horizontal scanning line are stored in the FIFO B5, these are sequentially read therefrom during the horizontal non display period and used as address data for reading from the animation pattern control table Ck the data representative of the Y and X coordinates, names, EC bits and color codes of the animation patterns to be displayed. Then, the data read from each animation pattern control table Ck are fed via the bus VRL to an animation pattern processing circuit 20 and are loaded thereinto, eight circuits 20 being provided as later described. The detected ninth animation pattern number which is not loaded into the animation pattern number FIFO B5 is loaded into a register B6. ALU arithmetic and logic unit B7 compares the count NV of the vertical counter 8 with each Y coordinate, and effects address calculation of the animation pattern, and the results of these calculations are fed to a decoder B9 via a status register B8. In accordance with an output of a mode register B10, the decoder B9 decodes instructions fed from a microprogram ROM B11 and effects a sequential control of the data to be fed to the buses. The horizontal and vertical counters 7 and 8 are connected to the microprogram ROM B11 to address it to read the instructions therefrom. The animation pattern processing circuit 13 will now be described in more detail. FIG. 11 shows a block diagram of the animation pattern processing circuit 13. The animation pattern processing circuit 13 includes eight animation pattern processors 20 to 27 of an identical construction into which data representative of animation pattern are loaded, respectively, from VRAM 5 via the image data processing circuit 9. FIG. 12 shows a block diagram of one of the animation pattern processor 20 to 27. Data representative of X coordinate is transferred from the second byte of each animation pattern control table Ck k 0 to 31 to X counter 30, and the X counter 30 counts down its contents representative of the X coordinate data in accordance with dot clock pulses DCP produced in synchronization with the timings of sequential display of the display elements during the horizontal scanning. A zero detection circuit 31 outputs 1 signal when the count of the X counter 30 reaches 0 . Data 1 byte in that address of the animation pattern table area 4d designated by a processing as later described is transferred to a pattern shift register 32. The bits of the pattern shift register 32 representative of dot pattern of a row of display elements of the animation pattern are shifted out one by one from its MSB D7 in accordance with the dot clock pulses DCP applied thereto via an AND gate 33. The output signal of the pattern shift register 32 is fed as a pattern signal SPPT. The data in the fourth byte of each animation pattern control table Ck is loaded into a color code register 35. In this case, the first to fourth bits C0 to C3 of each color codes are loaded into the 1st to 4th bits of the register 35, respectively. The outputs of the 1st to 4th bits of the register 35 are fed to tri state buffers 36 to 39, respectively. Each of the tri state buffers 36 to 39 is enabled to output the inputted color code when the corresponding pattern signal SPPT of 1 is applied via a priority circuit 40 FIG. 11 thereto, and is rendered a high impedance output condition when the pattern signal SPPTT is 0 . The priority circuit 40 gives the highest priority to the pattern signal SPPT outputted from the animation pattern processor 20, ... , and the lowest priority to the animation pattern processor 27. Thus, the priority circuit 40 outputs only one pattern signal SPPT, which has higher priority to other pattern signals SPPT simultaneously supplied thereto, to the corresponding animation pattern processor. The operation of the video display controller in this embodiment will now be described. FIG. 13 is a diagrammatical illustration showing the relation between the display screen and a beam of electrons scanning the screen. The screen is divided horizontally into display sections DS 0 to DS 31. Each display section has eight display elements on one horizontal line. During the time when these eight display elements are displayed, the image data processing circuit 9 makes access to VRAM 5 five times. Out of the five accesses, four accesses are used for the still pattern display and other display processing, and one access is used for the animation pattern display. In this case, the data representative of the still pattern to be displayed at the display section prior to that in which this still pattern is to be displayed. The access operation for the animation pattern processing will now be described. When the beam of electrons is scanning the screen along the line L0 at the display section DS 0, the image data processing circuit 9 checks whether there is any animation pattern, designated by the animation pattern control table C0 FIG. 8 , to be displayed on the line L1 which is one line below the line 10. More specifically, access is made to the first byte of the animation pattern control table C0 so that the image data processing circuit 9 reads the data representative of the Y coordinate and determines whether this Y coordinate satisfies the following formula Next, during the time when the scanning is being effected along the line L0 at the next display section DS 1, the image data processing circuit 9 checks whether there is any animation pattern, designated by the animation pattern control table C1, on the line L1. Then, similarly, it is checked whether there are any animation patterns designated respectively by the animation pattern control tables C2 to C31 during the scanning at the display sections DS 2 to DS 31. Thus, during the scanning along the line L0 throughout the display sections DS 0 to DS 31, the image data processing circuit 9 sequentially accesses the first bytes of the animation pattern control tables C0 to C31 to determine whether there is any animation pattern on the next line L1. In this case, however, when it is detected that up to 8 animation patterns to be displayed exist on that line, any further animation pattern on that line is ignored. Therefore, when the scanning along one line is completed, the maximum of 8 animation patterns on the next line can be detected. During the horizontal non display period, the image data processing circuit 9 processes the data representative of the animation patterns so detected. Assuming that the animation patterns designated by the animation pattern control tables C0 to C7 are detected to be displayed on the next line in which case the animation pattern designated by any one of animation pattern control tables C8 to C31 is ignored , the image data processing circuit 9 first transfers the X coordinate in the second byte of the animation pattern control table C0 to the X counter 30 of the animation pattern processor 20. Then, the image data processing circuit 9 reads the pattern name data from the third byte of animation pattern control table C0, and in accordance with this pattern name and the value S, accesses that address of the animation pattern table area 5d storing the data representative of the animation pattern to be displayed so as to transfer this animation pattern data of 1 byte to the pattern shift register 32 of the animation pattern processor 20. Also, the image data processing circuit 9 accesses the memory block BC0 of the animation pattern color table area 5f and transfers a color code contained in a byte of the memory block BC0, which is designated by the value S, to the color code register 35 of the animation pattern processor 20. For example, when the value S is 1 , the image data processing circuit 9 reads the data contained in the second byte of the memory block BC0 and transfers it to the color code register 35. Then, similarly, the image data processing circuit 9 performs the processing relating to the animation pattern control tables C1 and C7. The foregoing processings are carried out by the image data processing circuit 9 during the horizontal non display period. The scanning along the next line after the horizontal non display period will now be described. It is assumed that the count of the X counter 30 of the animation pattern procossor 20 is 5 . First, when the electron beam enters the display section DS 0 on the line L1, the X counter 30 counts down the dot clock pulses DCP in synchronization with the time interval at which the display elements are sequentially displayed on the screen from a left side thereof. As a result, the contents of the X counter 30 is decremented to 0 five counts later, so that the zero detection circuit 31 outputs 1 signal to enable the AND gate 33. Therefore, the dot clock pulses DCP are supplied to the pattern shift register 32 via the AND gate 33, and the pattern shift register 32 sequentially shifts out the data from its MSB in synchronization with the dot clock pulses DCP. Therefore, the pattern signal SPPT is outputted from the pattern shift register 32 in synchronization with the timing at which the sixth display element which corresponds to the value 5 of the X coordinate counting from the left end of the screen is displayed. Thus, the time when the pattern signal SPPT beings to be outputted is determined by the X coordinate data loaded in the X counter 30. The pattern signal SPPT is a serial pulse signal derived from the parallel data and represents the animation pattern. The thus outputted pattern signal SPPT is supplied to the tri state buffers 36 to 39 to enable or inhibit the application of the color code contained in the color code register 35 to the color palette circuit 13. The above described operation is repeatedly carried out to display each row of display elements of the animation pattern on the screen. Consequently, the animation pattern represented by the dot pattern data in the animation pattern table area 5d, which is designated by the name in the animation pattern control table Ck, is displayed on the screen at the position, defined by the X and Y coordinates in the animation pattern control table Ck, in colors designated by the color codes contained in the memory block BCk. And in this case, each of the first to eighth rows of display elements of the animation pattern is displayed in a respective one of the colors designated by the first to eighth color codes in the memory block BCk. Thus each animation pattern can be displayed in a plurality of colors. FIG. 15 shows a block diagram of a modified video display control system which is capable of mixing colors of overlapping portions of a plurality of animation patterns and is also capable of detecting a collision of animation patterns. A VRAM 5 of this video display control system differs from the aforesaid video display control system in that it has no animation pattern color table area FIG. 16 and that the fourth bytes of each animation pattern control table Ck is used for storing a color code and a pair of bit data IC and CC FIG. 17 b . The color code stored in the lower four bits of the fourth byte of each animation pattern control table Ck designates a color of the corresponding animation pattern. The relationship of the color codes and display colors is shown in FIG. 18. And the bit data IC and CC stored respectively in the sixth and seventh bits of each animation pattern control table Ck determine the animation pattern processing mode as later described. An animation pattern processing circuit 15 of this video display controller detects a collision between animation pattern images on the screen, and feed a collision signal S1 in the 1 state to an image data processing circuit 9 when such a collision is detected. The animation pattern processing circuit 13 will now be described in more detail. FIG. 19 shows a block diagram of the animation pattern processing circuit 13. The animation pattern processing circuit 13 includes animation pattern processors 20 to 27 of an identical construction into which data representative of animation pattern images are loaded, respectively, from the VRAM 5 via the image data processing circuit 9. FIG. 20 shows a block diagram of each of the animation pattern processor 20 to 27. As is appreciated from FIG. 20, the animation processors 20 to 27 of this video display controller 2 differ from those shown in FIG. 12 in that each color code register 35 further stores the bit data IC and CC, read from the fourth byte of the corresponding animation pattern control table, in the sixth and seventh bits thereof. The bit data IC and CC are outputted from the color code register 35 as bit signals IC and CC, respectively. The first to fourth bits C0 to C3 of the color code stored in the color code register 35 are subjected to a logical OR operation by an OR gate 41 which outputs a signal SPTP of 1 when the bits C0 to C3 are all 0 . The signal SPTP indicates that the color code contained in the color code register 35 represents transparency. In FIG. 19, gates marked by . denote AND gates, and gates marked by denote OR gates. Delay circuits D1 to D4 operate in synchronization with the dot clock pulses DCP applied to the animation pattern processors 20 to 27. Each of adders 50 to 57 has input terminals A and B, a carry output terminal Co and an output terminal S for outputting the addition result. Reference numeral 58 designates a color mixture and priority circuit, and reference numeral 59 designates a collision detection circuit. The operation of this modified video display controller will now be described, and the animation pattern processing will first be described briefly. According to this processing, when animation pattern images overlap, the logical sum of the color codes of these overlapping pattern images is produced for use as a new color code representative of the color of display elements in such overlapping portions. For example, as shown in FIG. 21, three animation patterns P1, P2 and P3 overlap completely and have the color codes 1001 blue , 1010 red and 1100 yellow , respectively. For illustration purposes, each animation pattern is shown by 4 x 4 display elements in FIG. 21. In this case, the bit data representative of the upper left end display element of the three patterns P1 to P3 are all 1 , and therefore the three color codes are logically added. As a result, the upper left end display element is displayed in a color represented by color code 1111 white . Also, the data representative of the display element of the three patterns P1 to P3 disposed next to the upper left end display element in a right hand direction are 1 , 1 and 0 , respectively. Therefore, the color code of the animation pattern P3 is not added, so that the display element is displayed in a color represented by color code 1011 mazenta . With this color mixture processing, the display elements representing the animation pattern image can be displayed in different colors. When four animation patterns having color codes 1000 , 0100 , 0010 and 0001 , respectively, overlap, the maximum of 16 colors can be displayed on the screen. According to this processing, the animation patterns with respect to which the collision detection processing is to be effected are predetermined, and the collision processing is carried out only with respect to those animation patterns, and the coordinates of the display position at which a collision has occurred are detected. For example, in FIG. 22, animation patterns P5, P6 and P7 are not subjected to the collision detection while animation patterns P8, P9 and P10 are subjected to the collision detection. In this case, the collision detection is effected only with respect to the animation patterns P9 and P10, and when the collision is detected, the display position X1, Y1 of the display element at which the collision develops are detected. When the above mentioned color mixture processing is carried out, this collision detection is not carried out. Also, as shown in FIG. 23, the collision between those portions of animation patterns P11 and P12 which are represented by bit data of 0 are actually not considered as a collision, and the collision detection with respect to such portions is not carried out. The operation of this modified video display controller will now be described. During the display period of the display elements on the current scanning line, a detection operation is carried out to determine whether there is any animation pattern whose display elements should be displayed on the next scanning line, as described for the aforesaid video display controller. And as the result of the detection operation, one byte of the pattern data of each of the animation patterns to be displayed on the next scanning line is stored in the pattern shift register 32 of the corresponding one of the animation pattern processors 20 to 27. At the same time, the color code and the bit data IC and CC are read from the corresponding animation pattern control table and stored into the color code register 35. It is assumed that the bit data CC stored in the color code register 35 of the animation pattern processor 20 is 0 and that the color code is not 0000 which represents transparency. In this case, the animation pattern processor 20 FIG. 19 outputs the pattern signal SPPT which is either 0 or 1 depending on the animation pattern concerned. This pattern signal SPPT is fed to one input terminal of an AND gate AN2 via an AND gate AN1 and also fed to the other input terminal of the AND gate AN2 via the AND gate AN1, an OR gate OR1, an AND gate AN3, an AND gate AN4 and an OR gate OR2. As a result, the output signal of the AND gate AN2 is the same as the pattern signal SPPT. The output signal of the AND gate AN2 is applied to tri state buffers 36 to 39 FIG. 20 as the enabling signal EN. Therefore, in this case, the buffers 36 to 39 are enabled only when the pattern signal SPPT representative of the row of the animation pattern is 1 , and the bits C0 to C3 of the color code are fed from the color code register 35 to the color palette circuit 11 via respective OR gates OR3 to OR6. As a result, the display elements corresponding to the row of the animation pattern in the 1 state are sequentially displayed on the screen in a color designated by the bits C0 to C3 of the color code. The above operation is also carried out in the other animation pattern processors 21 to 27, and AND gates AN5 to AN11 output the enabling signals EN which are the same as the pattern signals SPPT outputted from the animation pattern processors 21 to 27, respectively. However, in at least two of the animation pattern processors 20 to 27, when the pattern signals SPPT are 1 at the same time or when the bit data CC is 1 , the above operation is not carried out in the manner described. This will now be described. For example, when the pattern signal SPPT of the animation pattern processor 20 is rendered 1 , the output signal of the AND gate AN3 is rendered 1 , so that an output signal of an inverter INV1 is rendered 0 . As a result, 0 signal is applied to one input terminal of each of AND gates AN12 to AN18 so that they output 0 signals. And, since the bit data CC of all the animation pattern processors 21 to 27 are 0 , 0 signal is applied to one input terminal of each of AND gates AN19 to AN24, so that they output 0 signals. As a result, output signals of OR gates OR7 to OR13 are rendered 0 , and therefore the output signals of the AND gates AN5 to AN11 are rendered 0 regardless of the pattern signals SPPT of the animation pattern processors 21 to 27. Thus, when the pattern signal SPPT of the animation pattern processor 20 is 1 , the pattern signals SPPT of the animation pattern processors 21 to 27 are ignored even if they are 1 . Also, when the pattern signals SPPT of the animation pattern processors 20 and 21 are both 0 and when the pattern signal SPPT of the animation pattern processor 22 is 1 , the output signals enabling signals EN of the AND gates AN7 to AN11 are rendered 0 regardless of the pattern signals SPPT of the animation pattern processors 23 to 27, as described above. As will be appreciated from the forgoing, higher priority is established from the animation pattern processor 20 to the animation processor 27. Therefore, when the pattern signal SPPT of the animation pattern processor having higher priority is 1 , the pattern signal SPPT of any other animation pattern processor having lower priority is ignored. Therefore, from a visual point of view, the animation pattern image displayed through the animation pattern processor having higher priority can be seen shallower on the screen while the animation pattern images displayed through the animation pattern processors having lower priority can be seen deeper. When the pattern signals SPPT of the animation pattern processors 20 to 27 are all 0 , 1 signal is applied to each input terminal of an AND gate AN25, so that this AND gate outputs 1 signal. The 1 signal outputted from AND gate AN25 is the above mentioned still pattern display signal S2 see FIG. 15 , and the image data processing circuit 9 feeds the color code of the still pattern to the color palette 11 only when the still pattern display signal S2 is fed to the image data processing circuit 9. Therefore, the still pattern image is displayed on the screen deeper than the animation pattern image having the lowest priority. As shown in TABLE 1, it is assumed that the bit data CC stored in the animation pattern processors 20, 23 and 24 are 0 , and that the bit data CC stored in the animation pattern processors 21, 22 and 25 to 27 are 1 . And, for example, the color codes in the animation pattern processors 20 to 27 are as shown in TABLE 1. Reference is first made to the animation pattern processors 20 to 22. Assuming that only the pattern signal SPPT of the animation pattern processor 21 is rendered 1 , this 1 signal is fed to one input terminal of the AND gate AN5 via an AND gate AN30, an OR gate OR20, an AND gate AN31, the OR gate OR1, the AND gate AN19 and the OR gate OR7 and also fed to the other input terminal of the AND gate AN5 via the AND gate 30. As a result, the enabling signal EN outputted from the AND gate AN5 is rendered 1 , so that the bits C0 to C3 of the color code in the animation pattern processor 21 are fed to the color palette circuit 11 via the respective OR gates OR3 to OR6. Therefore, in this case, the color of the display element to be displayed is determined by the color code 1010 in the animation pattern processor 21 and hence is red. Also, when only the pattern signal SPPT of the animation pattern processor 22 is rendered 1 , this 1 signal is fed to one input terminal of the AND gate AN6 via an AND gate AN32, an OR gate OR21, an AND gate AN33, the OR gate OR20, the AND gate AN31, the OR gate OR1, the AND gate AN3, the AND gate AN4, the OR gate OR2, the AND gate AN19, the OR gate OR7, the AND gate AN20 and the OR gate OR8, and also fed to the other input terminal of the AND gate AN6 via the AND gate AN32. As a result, the enabling signal EN outputted from the AND gate AN6 is rendered 1 , so that the color code in the animation pattern processor 22 is outputted, and the color of the display element to be displayed is determined by the color code 1100 and hence is yellow. When the pattern signals of the animation pattern processors 21 and 22 are rendered 1 at the same time, these 1 signals are fed respectively to input terminals of the AND gates AN5 and AN6 through respective signal paths as described above. As a result, the enabling signals EN outputted respectively from the AND gates AN5 and AN6 are rendered 1 , so that the color codes are outputted respectively from the animation pattern processors 21 and 22. Therefore, the output signals of the OR gates OR3, OR4, OR5 and OR6 are rendered 0 , 1 , 1 and 1 , respectively, and the color of the display element to be displayed is determined by the color code 1110 and hence is cyan FIG. 18 . Thus, when the pattern signals SPPT of the animation pattern processors 21 and 22 are rendered 1 at the same time, the color codes are outputted from them, and the logical sum of these color codes is decided to provide a new color code which determines the color of the display element to be displayed. When either the pattern signals SPPT of the animation pattern processors 20 and 21 or the pattern signals SPPT of the animation pattern processors 20 and 22 are rendered 1 at the same time, either the enabling signals EN outputted from the AND gates AN2 and AN5 or the enabling signals EN outputted from the AND gates AN2 and AN6 are rendered 1 as described above. As a result, either the logical sum of the color codes in the animation pattern processors 20 and 21 or the logical sum of the color codes in the animation pattern processors 20 and 22 is decided to provide a new color code which determines the color of the display element to be displayed. Also, when the pattern signals SPPT of the animation pattern processors 20 to 22 are all rendered 1 at the same time, the logical sum of the color codes in these animation pattern processors 20 to 22 is decided to provide a new color code. The color mixture processing FIG. 21 is carried out in this manner. Any one of the pattern signals SPPT outputted from the animation pattern processor 20 to 22 is rendered 1 , the output of the AND gate AN3 is rendered 1 , so that the output signal of the inverter INV1 is rendered 0 . As a result, 0 signal is fed to one input terminals of the AND gates AN12 to AN18, so that the output signals of the AND gates AN12 to AN18 are rendered 0 . Since the bit data CC in the animation processor 23 is 0 see TABLE 1 , the output signal of the AND gate AN35 is always 0 . And, the output signals of the AND gates AN14 to AN18 are 0 , and the output signal of the AND gate AN35 is also 0 . Therefore, 0 signal is fed to one input terminals of the AND gates AN7 to AN11, so that the enabling signals outputted from the AND gates AN7 to AN11 are all rendered 0 . Therefore, when any one of the pattern signals SPPT of the animation pattern processors 20 to 22 is 1 , the pattern signals SPPT outputted from the animation pattern processors 23 to 27 are all ignored. In other words, the group of animation pattern processors 20 to 22 have the highest priority, in this case. Reference is made to the case where the pattern signals SPPT of the animation pattern processors 20 to 22 are all 0 . When the pattern signal SPPT of the animation pattern processor 23 is rendered 1 , this 1 signal is fed to one input terminal of the AND gate AN7 via the AND gate AN36, OR gate OR23, AND gate AN37, AND gate AN14 and OR gate OR9 and also fed to the other input terminal of the AND gate AN7 via the AND gate AN36. As a result, the enabling signal EN outputted from the AND gate AN7 is rendered 1 , and the color of the display element to be displayed is determined by the color code in the animation pattern processor 23. In this case, the output signal of the inverter INV2 is rendered 0 so that the output signals of the AND gates AN15 to AN18 are rendered 0 , and the output signal of the AND gate AN38 is 0 since the bit data CC in the animation pattern processor 24 is 0 . Therefore, 0 signals are always fed to one input terminals of the AND gates AN8 to AN11, so that the pattern signals SPPT of the animation pattern processors 24 to 27 are all ignored. Next, reference is made to the operation of the animation pattern processors 24 to 27 when the pattern signals SPPT of the animation pattern processors 20 to 23 are all 0 . As shown in TABLE 1, the bit data CC of the animation pattern processor 24 is 0 while the bit data CC of the animation pattern processors 25 to 27 are 1 . Therefore, the animation pattern processors 24 to 27 constitute a group similar to the above mentioned group of animation pattern processors 20 to 22. Therefore, when at least two of the pattern signals SPPT of the animation pattern processors 24 to 27 are rendered 1 at the same time, the above mentioned color mixture processing is carried out. Thus, when carrying out the color mixture, some of the animation pattern processors are defined as a group, and the bit data CC of that animation pattern processor which has the highest priority in the group is set to 0 , and the bit data CC of the other animation pattern processors in the group are set to 1 . The collision detection will now be described. It is assumed that the bit data CC and IC of the animation pattern processors 20 to 27 are 0 and that the pattern signals SPPT of the animation pattern processors 20 and 21 are 1 . In this case, 0 signal representative of the bit data IC is fed to one input terminal of an AND gate AN40 via an inverter INV3, and 1 signal is fed from the AND gate AN1 to the other input terminal of the AND gate AN40 via the AND gate AN3. As a result, 1 signal is fed from the AND gate AN40 to an input terminal A of the adder 50, so that 1 signal is outputted from the output terminal S of the adder 50. On the other hand, 0 signal representative of the bit data CC of the animation pattern processor 21 is fed to one input terminal of an AND gate AN41 via an inverter INV4, and 1 signal is fed from the AND gate AN39 to the other input terminal of the AND gate AN41. As a result, input terminals A and B of the adder 51 are supplied with 1 signals, so that 1 signal is outputted from a carry terminal Co of the adder 51. As a result, 1 signal is outputted from an OR gate OR25 via a delay circuit D4. This 1 signal is the above mentioned collision detection signal S1. In the manner mentioned above, when at least two of the pattern signals SPPT of the animation pattern processors are rendered 1 , 1 signal is outputted from a carry terminal of at least one of the adders 51 to 57, so that the collision detection signal S1 is outputted from the delay circuit D4. When this collision detection signal S1 is outputted, the image data processing circuit 9 FIG. 15 feeds the outputs of the horizontal and vertical counters 7 and 8 to the CPU 1 via the interface circuit 10. Then, the CPU 1 determines the display position at which a collision between animation patterns has occured. Incidentally, the color of the display element at this collision position is determined by the color code in the animation pattern processor having the highest priority. Next, it is assumed that the bit data IC of the animation pattern processor 20 is 1 and that the bit data IC of the animation pattern processor 21 is 0 . In this case, since 1 signal representative of the bit data IC is fed to the one input terminal of the AND gate AN40 via the inverter INV3, the output signal of the AND gate AN40 is always 0 . Therefore, even when the pattern signals SPPT of the animation pattern processors 20 and 21 are rendered 1 at the same time, 1 signal is not outputted from the carry terminal Co of the adder 51, and therefore the collision detection signal S1 is not outputted. Thus, although a collision develops on the screen, the collision signal S1 is not outputted. As will be appreciated from the foregoing, the collision detection signal S1 is outputted only when the pattern signals SPPT of at least two of the animation pattern processors having the bit data IC of 0 are rendered 1 at the same time. When the bit data IC of any one of the animation pattern processors 20 to 27 is 1 , 0 signal is fed to the other input terminal of one of the AND gates AN40 to AN47, so that none of these AND gates AN40 to AN47 outputs 1 signal. More specifically, the collision will not be detected with respect to the animation pattern stored in any animation pattern processor containing the bit data CC of 1 . The reason is that when the bit data CC is 1 , the color mixture is effected, and it is not desirable that each time the color mixture is effected, the collision detection signal S1 is outputted. A signal TP shown in FIG. 19 determines the validity of the transparency detection signal SPTP. When the signal TP is 1 , the signal SPTP is invalid, and when the signal TP is 0 , the signal SPTP is valid. When the transparency detection signal SPTP is 1 and valid, the patter signal SPPT is inhibited as can be appreciated from FIG. 19. And, when the transparency signal SPTP is rendered invalid, the color code corresponding to the transparency 0000 can be set to represent any other color. A further modified video display controller will now described. This video display controller is designed so that an increased number of animation patterns can be displayed even when one of the animation patterns is displayed at a display position where the left part of the animation pattern is disposed outside the actual display area of the screen. The construction of each circuit portion of this video display controller except for an animation pattern processing circuit 13 is identical to that of the aforesaid modified video display controller shown in FIGS. 15 to 20. The animation pattern processing circuit 13 of this video display controller comprises eight animation pattern processors 20 to 27 of an identical construction. FIG. 24 shows a block diagram of the animation pattern processor 20. The animation pattern processor 20 is connected to the image data processing circuit 9 FIG. 15 via the bus VRL FIG. 10 and also connected to the color palette circuit 11 via the bus Clr. The bus VRL comprises eight bit lines VRL0 to VRL7, and these bit lines VRLj j 0, 1 ... 7 are connected via inverters INV to data input terminals Di of respective bits stages 30j of an X counter 30 eight bit binary counter and also connected to data input terminals Di of respective latch elements 35j of a color code register 35 and data input terminals Di of respective memory elements 32j and 34j of pattern shift registers 32 and 34, the bit line VRL4 being not connected to the latch. Before each horizontal scanning is effected, that is to say, during the horizontal non display period, the application of a load signal XL to a load terminal LD of each bit 30j of the X counter 30, the application of a signal CL to a clock terminal CK of each latch element 35j of the color code register 35 and the application of signals LL and RL to a load terminals LD of each memory element 32j, 34j are effected, so that the data are loaded into the X counter 30, each color code register 35 and each pattern shift registers 32 and 34 via the bit lines VRL0 to VRL7. Data representative of X coordinate of an animation pattern to be displayed which represents the display start position of the animation pattern as mentioned above is fed from the animation pattern control table Ck the display of the animation pattern is started from the display element designated by the data and loaded via the inverter INV into the X counter 30 as data representative of initial value NX0. In this case, since the X counter 30 is an eight bit binary counter, the initial value NX0 is obtained from the following formula Next, a color code and bit data IC, CC and EC are fed from the fourth byte of the animation pattern control table Ck, and the color code is loaded into the latch element 350 to 353, and and the bit data IC, CC and EC are loaded into the latch elements 355, 356 and 357, respectively. Pattern data representative of a row of display element of the animation pattern to be displayed is transferred from the corresponding byte of the animation pattern table area 5d FIG. 3 a to the pattern shift register 32 and the pattern shift register 34. The pattern data is loaded into the pattern shift register 34 only when the animation pattern is displayed by 16 x 16 display elements, i.e., when a signal SIZE is fed from the image data processing circuit 9, and only in such a case, the load signal RL is applied to the pattern shift register 34. Thus, before the horizontal display is effected, the data representative of the initial value NX0 is loaded into the X counter 30, and the color code and bit data IC, CC and EC are loaded into the latch 35, and the pattern data representative of the dot pattern of the animation pattern to be displayed is loaded into the pattern shift registers 32 and 34. Then, when the horizontal display is started, the eight animation pattern processors 20 to 27 process the data in a parallel fashion to display the animation patterns on the display screen. At this time, first, in those of the animation pattern processors 20 to 27 which contain the bit data EC in the 0 state, all of the X counters 30 simultaneously start their count up operations which are effected in synchronization with the counting operation of the horizontal counter 7, and when the display position of the first display element reaches the position X, Y shown in FIG. 14, the pattern shift registers 35 and 34 shift out the pattern data to display the animation pattern represented by them. More specifically, a carry input terminal Ci of each bit 30j of the X counter 30 of the animation pattern processor 20 is connected to a carry output terminal Co of the preceding bit thereof. Each one of the bits 30j of this X counter 30 adds a pulse signal of 1 applied to its carry input terminal Ci to the contents thereof, and outputs a pulse signal of 1 from its carry output terminal Co when both of the input pulse signal and the contents are 1 . The carry input terminal Ci of the first bit 300 of the X counter 30 is connected to an output terminal of an AND gate 140. One input terminal of this AND gate is connected to an output terminal Q of an SR flip flop 125 hereinafter referred to as SRFF which is set by a count start signal CS, the other input terminal of the AND gate 140 being supplied with the output signal DCP of the horizontal counter 7. A carry output terminal Co of the last bit 307 of the X counter 30 is connected to a set terminal S of an SRFF 127 via an AND gate 126. When the count start signal CS sets the SRFF 125 at the start of the display of a horizontal scanning line, the X counter 30 sequentially counts up its contents from its initial value NX0 255 X which is represented by the above mentioned formula 2 . As described above, this count up is effected in synchronization with the count up of the horizontal counter 7, and when the display position on the horizontal scanning line becomes X, the count value NX of the X counter 30 reaches 255. At this time, the outputs of the bits 300 to 307 of the X counter 30 are all rendered 1 , and the output of an AND gate 128 is rendered 1 and is fed to a shift controller 129 so that the pattern shift registers 32 and 34 begin their shifting operation. On the other hand, in each of those animation pattern processors 20 which contain the data representative of the bit data EC in the 1 state, a value of 32 is first added to the initial value NX0 of the X counter 30 to change it, and the X counter 30 begins to count up its contents from the the changed initial value NX0. As a result, the row of display elements of the animation pattern is shifted left by 32 display elements from the position X, Y to the position X 32, Y . Thus, when the bit data EC is set to 1 , the X coordinate contained in the second byte of the corresponding animation pattern control table Ck represents X coordinate of the animation pattern on an imaginary screen which is shifted left by 32 display elements with respect to the actual display screen. For example, if the bit data EC is 1 and when the X coordinate of the animation pattern is 35 , the leftend display elements of the animation pattern are displayed at the column 3 of the actual screen. More specifically, an OR gate 130a is coupled between the carry output terminal Co of the bit 304 of the X counter 30 and the clock input terminal Ci of the next bit 305, and the output terminal of an AND gate 130b is connected to the other input terminal of the OR gate 30a. The AND gate 30b produces the logical product of the bit data EC and a start signal Ho fed thereto at the start of the horizontal display, and when the start signal Ho is fed to the AND gate 30b while the bit data EC is 1 , 1 signal is fed to the clock input terminal Ci of the bit 305 of the X counter 30 so that a value of 32 is added to the contents of the X counter 30. In this case, since the initial value NX0 of the X counter 30 has been 255 X , the new value NX0 obtained as the results of the addition is represented by the following formula Therefore, when X 32 is provided, the new value NX0 is less than 255, and then the same processing as described above for the case where the bit data EC is 0 is carried out. Also, when X 31 is provided, the value NX0 is not less than 256. In the X counter 30, 256 is equal to 0 256 0 , and therefore the count NX0 in this case is expressed by the following formula Therefore, if the value of X is not more than 31, then NX0 0 is provided. In this case, part of the animation pattern is hidden on the left side of the screen, and at the time of this addition, 1 signal is fed from the carry output terminal Co of the bit 307 to one input terminal of the AND gate 126, the other input terminal of this AND gate 126 being supplied with 1 signal from the AND gate 130b. As a result, the SRFF 127 is set by 1 signal from the AND gate 126, so that 1 signal is fed from a terminal Q of the SRFF 127 to the shift controller 129. As a result, the pattern data are serially outputted from the intermediate bits of the pattern shift registers 32 and 34 in a manner described later. The above mentioned circuit elements 130a, 130b and 305 constitute adder means 130. Next, the outputs of the lower four bits 300 to 303 of the X counter 30 are supplied respectively to first input terminals D1 of selector elements 600 to 603 of a four bit selector 60, and also the outputs of the four bits 301 to 304 of the X counter 30 are supplied to second input terminals D2 of the selector elements 600 to 603 of the selector 60. The selector 60 is responsive to a signal MAG supplied to selection terminals S of the selector elements 600 to 603 thereof to switch the input data. The signal MAG is 1 when the magnification of the animation pattern twice magnification is effected, and this signal is 0 when there is no magnification of the animation pattern i.e., normal display . When the signal MAG is 0 , the outputs of the lower four bits 300 to 303 of the X counter 30 are fed to input terminals D of latch elements 610 to 613 of a four bit latch 61 through the selector elements 600 to 603, respectively. And, when the signal MAG is 1 , the outputs of the bits 301 to 304 are fed to the input terminals D of the latch elements 320 to 323 through the selector elements 600 to 603, respectively. The latch 61 is responsive to a signal CSa fed from the shift controller 129 to clock input terminals CK of its latch elements to latch the data fed from the selector 60. When the signal at the output terminal Q of the SRFF 127 is 1 i.e., the bit data EC is 1 and X 31 is provided the shift controller 129 outputs the signal CSa in response to a count start signal CS. Then, the count NX of the X counter 30 is incremented by one from the initial value NX0 31 X represented by the formula 4 , which is expressed by the following formula 5 , the output data of the selector 60 is latched by the latch 61. In the case where the signal MAG is 0 , the lower four bits of the above count NX 32 X are outputted from the output terminals Q of the selector 60, and when the signal MAG is 1 , the lower five bits of the above count NX except for the MSB are outputted form the output terminals Q of the selector 31. Therefore, value n loaded into the latch 61 is determined in accordance with the value X as shown in TABLE 2. The value n once loaded into the latch 61 is maintained until reset terminals R of the latch elements 610 to 613 are supplied with a reset signal CSb which is outputted from the shift controller 129 in accordance with the next count start signal CS. Thus, the value n latched in the latch 61 in the form of a binary code is converted by a decoder 62 into a hexadecimal code, and signals F0, F1, F2 ..... F15 corresponding respectively to the value N of 0, 1, 2 ..... 15 are fed from the decoder 62 to first input terminals of AND gates A0, A1, A2 ..... A15, respectively. On the other hand, outputs of the memory elements 327, 326, ... 320 and 347, 346 ... 340 of the pattern shift registers 32 and 34 are supplied to the second input terminals of the AND gates A0, A1, ... A7 and A8, A9 ... A15, respectively. The outputs of the AND gates A0 to A7 are supplied to the respective input terminals of an OR gate 134a, and the outputs of the AND gates A8 to A15 are supplied to respective input terminals of an OR gate 134b. The outputs of the OR gates 134a and 134b are supplied to an input terminal Di of a memory element 135 via an OR gate 134c. As a result, one of the AND gates An n 0, 1, 2, ... 15 opened in accordance with the value n serves as a gate for outputting the pattern data, and the pattern data stored in the pattern shift register 32 and the pattern shift register 34 are fed via the AND gate An, OR gate 134a 134b and OR gate 134c to the memory element 135 and is outputted therefrom as a serial pattern signal SPPT. The color code stored in the bits 350 to 353 is outputted therefrom in accordance with the pattern signal SPPT of 1 and is supplied via the color bus Clr to the color palette circuit 11, so that the row of the animation pattern is displayed on the CRT screen. Each of the pattern shift registers 32 and 34 are designed to store dot pattern data of 8 bits. In the case where the dot pattern data is composed of 8 bits, that is to say, the animation pattern is formed by 8 x 8 display elements, the pattern shift register 32 is used alone. And, in the case where the dot pattern data is composed of 16 bits, that is to say, the animation pattern is formed by 16 x 16 display elements, the pattern shift register 32 and the pattern shift register 34 connected thereto are used in combination. As described above, the dot pattern data to be displayed during the next horizontal display period are loaded into the memory elements 320 to 327 of the pattern shift register 32 by a load signal LL supplied from the shift controller 129 to load terminals LD of the memory elements 320 to 327 during the horizontal non display period. The dot pattern data thus loaded into the memory elements 320 to 327 are hereinafter referred to as dot data D0 to D7 . Similarly, 8 bit dot pattern data to be displayed next to the above mentioned dot data are loaded into the memory elements 340 to 347 of the shift register 34 by a load signal RL supplied to load terminals LD of the memory elements 340 to 347. The dot pattern data thus loaded into the memory elements 340 to 347 are hereinafter referred to as dot data E0 to E7 . Then, during the horizontal display period, the dot data D0 to D7 and E0 to E7 are sequentially outputted from the AND gate An in accordance with the shift signal S and hold signal H supplied from the shift controller 129. First, when the signal at the output terminal Q of the SRFF 127 is 0 , that is to say, the whole of the animation pattern is to be displayed on the screen, the value n latched in the latch 61 is rendered 0 , and the signal F0 is outputted from the decoder 62. Therefore, the AND gate A0 is opened for outputting the dot pattern data. Then, the X counter 30 counts X, and when its count NX reaches 255, AND gate 28 feeds 1 signal to the shift controller 129. Therefore, when a signal MAG is 0 , the shift controller 129 outputs the shift signal S in synchronization with the counting of the horizontal counter 7. And, when the signal MAG is 1 , the shift controller 129 alternately outputs the shift signal S and the hold signal H in accordance with the even and odd values of the count NX of the X counter 30. As a result, when the signal MAG is 0 , the dot data D7, D6 ... D0 E7, E6 ...E0 are sequentially outputted from the AND gate A0, and the display elements corresponding to these dot data are sequentially displayed on the horizontal scanning line from the position X. When the signal MAG is 1 , the dot data D7, D7, D6, D6 ... D0, D0 E7, E7, E6, E6 ... E0, E0 are sequentially outputted from the AND gate A0, and the display elements corresponding to these dot data are sequentially displayed on the screen. Next, when the signal at the output terminal Q of the SRFF 127 is 1 , that is to say, part of the animation pattern is hidden on the left side of the screen, the value n n 0 is latched in the latch 61, and a signal Fn is outputted from the decoder 62. Therefore, the AND gate An is opened for outputting the dot pattern data. Then, each time the count NX of the X counter 30 is incremented by one, the shift controller 129 outputs the shift signal S when the signal MAG is 0 , and also outputs alternately the shift signal S and the hold signal H in accordance with the even and odd values of the count NX when the signal MAG is 0 . As a result, when the signal MAG is 0 , the dot data shown in TABLE 3 are sequentially outputted from the AND gate An, and the display elements corresponding to these dot data are sequentially displayed on the screen from a left end thereof. For example, when n 5 is provided, the AND gate A5 is opened to sequentially output the dot data D2, D1, D0 E7 ... E0 , so that the display elements represented by these dot data are displayed from the left end of the screen. And, when the signal MAG is 1 , each of these display elements is displayed twice to magnify the animation pattern image twice. The operation of the above mentioned embodiment will now be described. The display of an animation pattern image is effected by assigning a selected display position to the animation pattern Pi 8 x 8 display elements or 16 x 16 display elements of which data is stored in the animation pattern table area 5d. The assignment of the display position is effected by the animation control table Ck, and the display position is shifted suitably to produce a required animation pattern image. The dot pattern data representative of each animation pattern to be displayed and the data representative of the display position thereof are determined by the following procedure and are loaded into the corresponding one of the animation pattern processors 20 to 27. On the other hand, when the SRFF 125 is set by the count start signal CS, the X counter 30 starts the count up operation. In this case, since the initial value NX0 of the X counter 30 is 255 X , the count NX of this counter 30 reaches 255 when its contents are incremented X times, so that the output of the AND gate 128 is rendered 1 . Therefore, the shift controller 129 outputs the shift signal S, and the bit data in each of the pattern shift registers 32 and 34 and the memory element 135 are shifted one by one, so that the dot data D7, D6 ... D0 ET, E6 ... E0 are sequentially outputted as a serial pattern signal SPPT from the memory element 135. The pattern signal SPPT is fed via a priority circuit 40 FIG. 11 , which deletes the animation pattern data having a low priority, to the color code register 35 for outputting the color code therefrom. This color code is fed to the color palette circuit 11 via the color bus Clr so that the display element is displayed in a selected color. In this manner, the animation pattern image Pi is displayed at the selected display position X, Y . The same data processing is effected in the other animation pattern processors 21 to 27, so that the selected animation pattern images are successively displayed on the screen. In this case, the data are loaded into the animation pattern processor 20 to 27 as described above for Item A . At the start of the display of the horizontal scanning line, the start signal H0 is supplied whereupon the output of the AND gate 130b is rendered 1 since the bit data EC is 1 . As a result, a value of 32 is added to the initial value NX0 255 X of the X counter 30 via the OR gate 130a. In this case, since X 32 is provided, this addition result will not exceed 256 . Then, the processing proceeds as described above for Item A . The animation pattern image Pi is displayed at a position shifted left from the position X, Y by 32 display elements, that is to say, the position X 32, Y . In this case, the counting of the X counter 30 is started at the start of the display of the horizontal scanning line, and therefore with this method, there is overcome the disadvantage that the counting of the X counter must be started a predetermined number of display elements for example, 32 display elements before the display of the horizontal scanning line is started as is the case with the conventional method. In this case, the data are also loaded into the animation pattern processors 20 to 27 as described above for Items A and 3 . When the start signal H0 is supplied at the start of the horizontal display, a value of 32 is added to the initial value NX0 255 X as described above for Item B . Therefore, in this case, since X 31 is provided, this addition result exceeds 256 so that a carry signal Cr is outputted from the highest bit 217 of the X counter 30, and the initial value NX0 is changed to a value of 31 X as obtained from the above mentioned formula 4 . Also, the SRFF 127 is set by the carry signal Cr, and therefore the signal at the output terminal Q thereof is rendered 1 , so that the shift controller 129 outputs the signal CSa. As a result, the value n determined in accordance with the value X as shown in TABLE 2 is set in the latch 61. As a result, the signal Fn of 1 is outputted from the decoder 62, so that the AND gate An is opened for outputting the dot data, and this condition is maintained during one horizontal display period. Then, the shift controller 129 outputs the shift signal S to the pattern shift registers 32 and 34 and the memory element 135, and the dot data as shown in TABLE 3 are sequentially outputted from the AND gate An to the memory element 135 via the OR gate 134a or the OR gate 134b when the opened AND gate An is A8 to A15 and OR gate 134c. The memory element 135 outputs these dot data as the serial pattern signal SPPT. The dot data E0 to E7 are used only when the animation pattern to be displayed is formed by 16 x 16 display elements. TABLE 3 shows the display condition when the signal MAG is 0 , and when the signal MAG is 1 , the animation pattern represented by each of the dot data D0 to D7, E0 to E7 is displayed twice successively. As described above, this control is effected by outputting alternately the shift signal S and the hold signal H. As described above, with the construction of this embodiment, when the bit data EC is 1 , the initial value NX0 of the X counter 30 is incremented at the start of the horizontal display period. Therefore, there is no need to start the counting of the X counter before the start of the display period as is the case with the conventional system. Therefore, the time required for the loading of the necessary data during the horizontal non display period is extended, and the number of animation patterns to be displayed on one horizontal scanning line can be increased about 1.5 times larger as compared with that achieved with the conventional system.