# DYNAMIC RAM

## Claims
Dynamischer Speicher mit direktem Zugriff, umfassend

## Description
The present invention relates to a dynamic RAM, i.e., a dynamic type random access memory according to the first part of claim 1. A 1 bit memory cell in a dynamic RAM is composed, for example, of a data memory capacitor and an address selecting insulated gate field effect transistor which will be shortly called a MOSFET and is stored with data of logic values 1 and 0 in a form of whether or not the capacitor is charged. The readout of the data is conducted by turning on the address selecting MOSFET to couple the data holding capacitor to a bit or data line and by sensing how the data line has its potential changing with the quantity of the charge stored in the capacitor. In a RAM of high integration and large capacity which is required in recent years, each memory cell has a reduced size, and a large number of memory cells are coupled to each data line. In accordance with this, the relationship between the capacitance Cs of the capacitor and the stray capacitance i.e., the data line capacitance Co of the data line, i.e., the ratio of Cs Co takes a very small value so that the data signal to be fed from the memory cells to the data line, namely, the potential change to be applied to the data line in accordance with the quantity of the charge stored in the capacitor Cs takes a very minute value. In order to make it possible to detect that minute data signal, a differential or balanced sense technique is utilized, as is disclosed, for example, in IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID STATE CIRCUITS, Vol. SC 7, No. 5, October, 1972, pp. 336 to 340 or ISSCC 84, DIGEST OF TECHNICAL PAPERS pp. 276 to 277. In accordance with the technique disclosed above, the two data, bit or digit lines corresponding to each other are paired, and a sense amplifier, which is constructed of a symmetric latch circuit for substantially conducting a differential or balanced amplification, is coupled to the paired data lines which will be called complementary data lines , too . One of the paired data lines is fed with the data signal from the memory cell, whereas the other is supplied with a reference potential which has an intermediate level between the high and low levels of the data signal. The reference potential is generated by using a dummy cell which will be called a full size dummy cell having a capacitance substantially equal to that of the memory cell and as has its capacitor supplied in advance with a charge half as large as that of the memory cell, or by the precharge method which will be called a half precharge method or dummy cellless method using a pre short operation between the respective data lines. The minute level difference, which is established between the paired data lines on the basis of that reference potential, is amplified by the operation of the sense amplifier. EP A 0,049,630 describes a RAM in which the reference voltage is generated by a full size dummy cell. Prior to the reading operation of a selected memory cell, the dummy cell on one hand and the pair of data lines on the other hand are precharged to different voltage levels. To generate the reference potential, the dummy cell is then coupled to the data line on which the reference potential is to be detected and to a third data line. The memory cell on the other hand is only connected to a single data line. Since the reference charge is distributed to two data lines and their capacitances, the reference voltage has an intermediate level between the high and low levels of the data signal. The described memory has the disadvantage that the switching circuit which is provided for coupling the two data lines which form the reference data line complicates the chip layout. It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a dynamic RAM, the operation of which is not affected by fabrication tolerances and fluctuations in the operating voltage and which is easy to manufacture. This object is solved by the invention defined in claim 1. Fig. 1 is a circuit diagram showing one embodiment of the present invention. The circuit of the embodiment shown in the same Figure is composed mainly of IGFETs i.e., Insulated Gate Field Effect Transistors which are represented by N channel MOSFETs. A memory array M ARYl is composed of a plurality of data or bit lines DLl and Each data line has a stray capacitance or a data line capacitance Co which is fed from itself and the input output terminal of each memory cell. The numbers of the memory cells, which are coupled to the complementary data lines DL and The 1 bit memory cell MC is composed, as shown, of the data memory capacitor Cs and an address selecting MOSFET Qm and is stored with the data of the logic values 1 and 0 in the form of whether the capacitor Cs is charged or not. The readout of the data is conducted by turning on the MOSFET Qm to couple the capacitor Cs to the data line DL or In the memory matrix or memory array of high integration and capacity, the memory cell MC is constructed with small size, and many memory cells are connected with the data lines DL and In order to generate a reference potential for detecting such minute data signal, there are provided dummy cells DC. In this embodiment, each of those dummy cells DC is composed of a switch MOSFET Qd, a capacitor Cd and a resetting MOSFET Qrs, which are fabricated under the same fabrication conditions and with the same design constants as those of the memory cells MC. Each dummy cell has its capacitor Cd stored on stand by with the earth potential of the circuit by the resetting MOSFET Qrs. The reference voltage or potential is determined by the charge distribution between the capacitor Cd and the data lines. A precharge circuit PC coupled to the complementary data lines DL and One sense amplifier SA has its paired input output nodes coupled to the complementary data lines DL and Each memory cell MC is coupled between one word line WL and one of the paired complementary data lines. Here, if the level of one word line is changed, undesired potential fluctuations, which substantially seem noises, are given to the respective data lines through an undesired coupling capacitor between that word line and each data line. In the case of the folded bit line type memory array, however, each word line WL intersects with both the complementary data lines. As a result, the noise components, which are imparted to the respective complementary data lines in accordance with the level changes of the word lines WL, become substantially equal to each other. The sense amplifier SA of differential type is substantially insensitive to such common mode noises. In the addressing, when one memory cell MC coupled to one of the paired complementary data lines DL and The sense amplifier SA is composed, although not shown in detail, of a pair of cross connected MOSFETs having positive feedback actions, by which the minute signals appearing on the complementary data lines DL and Upon the addressing, the stored data of the memory cell MC, which were once ready to be broken, are recovered as a result that the potential at the high or low level generated by that sensing operation is received as it is by the memory cell MC. Once the high level drops more a predetermined extent with respect to the supply voltage Vcc, as has been described above, however, several repetitions of the read and rewrite will cause an erroneous operation of misreading the high level as the logic value 0 . In order to prevent this erroneous operation, therefore, each complementary data line is equipped with an active restore circuit AR. This active restore circuit AR is operated in response to a timing signal ø The complementary data lines DL and The circuits thus far described constitute the memory array M ARY1. At the righthand side of the same Figure, there is also arranged a memory array M ARY2 which is symmetrically similar to that memory array M ARY1. In order that a read reference potential Vref at an intermediate potential between the read high and low levels may be generated by the full size dummy cell DC, according to the present embodiment, switch MOSFETs Q1 and Q2 or Q1 and Q2 are connected between the corresponding data lines of the memory arrays M ARY1 and M ARY2. These MOSFETs Q1 and Q1 , and Q2 and Q2 have their gates fed commonly with timing signals ø and Incidentally, either the common complementary data lines CDL and A row decoder R DCR and a column decoder C DCR receive internal complementary address signals ax and ay which are generated by a not shown address buffer, and generate selecting signals and column switch selecting signals for selecting one word line, one dummy word line and the aforementioned switch MOSFET Ql or Q2 to address the memory cells and the dummy cells. The address decoder R DCR is so constructed to select the word line and dummy word line of one of the two memory arrays M ARYl and M ARY2 in response to the internal complementary address signals ax. Here, the selecting signals for selecting the dummy word lines, the selecting signals or timing signals ø and In the present embodiment, the internal complementary address signals ax to be fed to the row address decoder R DCR are weighted to have one to one correspondence. In accordance with this, which of the word lines among the word lines of memory arrays M ARYl and M ARY2 is to be selected is determined by the address signal of the most significant bit which will be called an array selecting address signal of the address signals ax. Since the respective memory cells coupled to the word lines, respectively, are coupled with a regularity to the complementary data lines, respectively, moreover, which of the complementary data lines is to be fed with the data from the memory cells is determined in response to such a l or 2 bit address signal of the address signals as has the least significant bit or the least significant bit and a high order bit. In accordance with this, which of the dummy cells coupled to the complementary data lines, respectively, is to be operated is determined in response to the l or 2 bit address signal which will be called a dummy word selecting address signal . As a result, by combining a suitable timing signal such as the word line selecting timing signal, the array selecting signal and the dummy word selecting address signal, it is possible to generate the selecting signal to be fed to the totally four dummy word lines of the two memory arrays. One of the timing signals ø and The operation of the dynamic RAM of the present embodiment will be described in the following. When the word line WLl of the memory array M ARYl, for example, is to be selected, the word line WLl is brought into a selected state, and the dummy word line DWL and the timing signal line ø are brought into their respective selected states of the high level. At this time, the not shown word line and dummy word line of the other memory array M ARYl are not selected. The memory cells are connected with the data line DL of the complementary data lines DL and Thus, the states of the word line WL1, the dummy word line DWL, and the data lines DL and Specifically, the data line DL, to which the memory cell MC to be selected is coupled, is electrically isolated from the corresponding data line of the memory array M ARY2 since the MOSFET Ql is held to off state. As a result, the stray capacitance or the data line capacitance of the data line DL is left at the value Co. Accordingly, the quantity of the signal to be fed to the data line DL when the memory cell MC is selected is relatively large. Fig. 2 shows in a solid curve the waveform of the potential of the data line DL when the memory cell is selected. The data line Thus, the ratio of the capacitor of the dummy cell DC and the substantial capacitor of the data line Incidentally, as has been described hereinbefore, prior to the addressing, the complementary data lines DL and The sense amplifier SA has its operation started at the timing when the read data signal and the reference voltage Vref appear on the complementary data lines DL and Fig. 3 is a block diagram showing the dynamic RAM according to a second embodiment of the present invention. The respective major circuit blocks appearing in Fig. 3 are drawn generally in comformity with the actual geometric arrangement and are formed on a semiconductor substrate made of one single crystal of silicon by the semiconductor integrated circuit technique, although not especially limitative thereto. Although not especially limitative, the present embodiment may be available for the dynamic RAM of shared sense type. The various circuits constituting the RAM have their respective operations controlled in response to the various timing signals which are generated by a timing generator TG, as will become apparent from the later description. In Fig. 3, however, the signal lines to be provided for connecting the timing generator TG and the various circuits are omitted so that the drawing may be prevented from becoming complicated. The dynamic RAM according to the present embodiment is constructed of four memory arrays MlL, MlR, M2L and M2R, although not especially limitative thereto. Each of the memory arrays MlL and M2R is made of the folded bit line or data line construction, as will become apparent from the later description to be made with reference to Figs. 4A and 4B. Therefore, each memory array is composed of a plurality of data lines to be paired, i.e., a plurality of complementary data lines, a plurality of dynamic memory cells to have their respective data input output terminals coupled to the corresponding data lines, and a plurality of word lines to which the selecting terminals of the dynamic memory cells are respectively coupled. The data lines are extended in the row direction of Fig. 3, although not shown. The word lines are extended in the column direction of the same Figure. The memory arrays MlL and MlR and the memory arrays M2L and M2R are paired, respectively. In accordance with the present embodiment, the data lines of the paired respective memory arrays are made to have data line capacitances substantially equal to each other. In order to make the data line capacitances substantially equal, although not especially limitative, the memory arrays MIL and MlR are to have an identical construction, i.e., to have the data lines, memory cells and word lines of the numbers equal to each other. Between the paired memory arrays MlL and MlR, there is arranged a sense amplifier SAl which is selectively utilized by those memory arrays. Between the memory array MlL and the sense amplifier SA1, there is arranged a switch circuit SWlL for selectively coupling them to each other. Between the memory array MlR and the sense amplifier SA1, there is likewise connected a switch circuit SWlR for selectively coupling them to each other. Between the paired memory arrays M2L and M2R, there are also arranged a sense amplifier SA2 and switch circuits SW2L and SW2R. The switch circuits SWlL to SW2R have their respective operations controlled by the timing signals which are outputted from the timing generator TG. One of the two switch circuits SWlL and SWlR corresponding to one sense amplifier, e.g., the sense amplifier SA1 is basically turned off at the start of the access of the memories. According with this, one of the paired memory arrays MlL and MlR is isolated from the sense amplifier SA1 whereas the other is left coupled to the sense amplifier SA1. In other words, each pare data lines of one memory array are isolated from the sense amplifier SA1 whereas the each pare data lines of the other memory array are left coupled to the sense amplifier SA1. In accordance with the present embodiment, however, the timing, at which one of the paired data lines of one memory array is isolated from the sense amplifier SA1, is made different from that of the other, as will be described later in detail with reference to Fig. 6. The sense amplifiers SA1 and SA2 have their respective operations controlled by the timing signals which are outputted from the timing generator TG. Incidentally, it should be understood that the sense amplifiers SA1 and SA2 presented as the circuit blocks of Fig. 3 contain the precharge circuit, full size dummy cell, active restore circuit and so on, as will be described later in detail with reference to Figs. 4A and 4B. The RAM has an address circuit for selecting desired one from the plural memory cells and desired one from the plural dummy cells of each memory array. The address circuit is constructed of an address buffer ADB, row address decoders R DCRlL to R DCR2R, column address decoders C DCRl and C DCR2, colum switch circuits CWlL to CW2R and so on. The respective circuits constructing the address circuit have their respective operations controlled by the timing signals which are generated from the timing generator TG. To external terminal of the RAM, to which the input terminal of the address buffer ADB is coupled, there are fed in a time sharing manner with external row address and column address signals in accordance with an address multiplex system. When the timing signals for controlling the introduction of the address signals are generated in synchronism with generation of a row address strobe signal The row address decoders R DCRlL to R DCR2R are arranged below the memory arrays MlL to M2R, as shown in Fig. 3, and have their respective output terminals coupled to the word lines of the corresponding memory arrays. These row address decoders R DCRlL to R DCR2R have their respective operations controlled by the word line selecting timing signal which is generated from the timing generator TG, and output word line selecting signals and the dummy word selecting signals in synchronism with the timing signal. Thus, the word lines of the respective memory arrays MlL, MlR, M2L and M2R are selected as a result that they are fed respectively with the word line selecting signals generated by the row address decoders R DCRlL, R DCRlR, R DCR2L and R DCR2R. In this case, by making the row address decoders R DCRlL and R DCRlR of suitable constructions, all the word lines of the memory array MlR are rendered unselective when one word line of the memory array MlL which is paired with the memory array MlR is selected, whereas all the word lines of the memory array MlL are rendered unselective when one word line of the memory array MlR is selected. By likewise making the row address decoders R DCR2L and R DCR2R of suitable constructions, the word lines of the memory arrays M2L and M2R marking another pair are alternatively selected. The column address decoder C DCRl has its operations controlled by either the data line selecting timing signal or column selecting timing signal which is outputted from the timing generator TG, and outputs the data line selecting signals or the column selecting signals in synchronism with the timing signal. Although not especially limitative, the column address decoder C DCRl is arranged at the right hand side of the memory arrays, as shown. Not shown output lines of the column address decoder C DCRl, i.e., the data selecting lines are extended over the memory arrays and coupled to the column switch circuits CWlL and CWlR. The column address decoder C DCRl is not shown in detail because it has no direct relationship with the present invention, but is composed of a plurality of unit circuits for respectively feeding outputs to the respective data line selecting lines. The column switch circuits CWlL and CWlR are provided, respectively, between common data lines provided to correspond to the memory arrays MlL and MlR and the input output terminals of the sense amplifier SAl and between common data lines provided to correspond to the memory arrays M2L and M2R and the input output terminals of the sense amplifier SA2, and are commonly fed with the data line selecting signals which are generated by the column address decoder C DCRl. In response to the selecting signals which are generated by the column address decoder C DCRl, specifically, the column switch circuits CWlL and CWlR respectively couple the input output terminals of the sense amplifiers SAl and SA2 to the common data lines which run in the column direction, although not shown. Here, each of the unit circuits constructing the column address decoder C DCRl is caused to have a relatively large pitch when it is formed on the semiconductor substrate in accordance with the semiconductor integrated circuit technique. In accordance with the present embodiment, each of the column switch circuits CWlL and CWlR is constructed, as will become apparent later with reference to Fig. 4B, although not especially limitative thereto, while considering the possible pitch of the unit circuits constructing the column address decoder circuit C DCRl, such that two pairs of complementary data lines adjacent to each other are coupled simultaneously with each other to two pairs of complementary common data lines in response to one data line selecting signal. As a result, each unit circuit of the column address decoder C DCRl has its pitch made coincident with that of the totally four data lines. In the case of this construction, the signals of totally four bits, i.e., the two bit signal of the memory array MlL or MlR and the two bit signal of the memory array M2L or M2R are simultaneously selected by the column selecting circuit which is constructed of the column address decoder C DCRl and the column switch circuits CWlL and CWlR. In order to select one bit signal from the totally 4 bit signals in the present embodiment, although not especially limitative thereto, the second column switch circuits CW2L and CW2R are provided between two pair of the common data lines corresponding to the memory arrays MlL and MlR, two pairs of the common data lines corresponding to the memory arrays M2L and M2R, the output terminal of a data input buffer DIB, and the input terminal of a data output buffer DOB. Those second column switch circuits CW2L and CW2R have their respective operations controlled by the selecting signals which are generated by a second column address decoder circuit DCR2. Incidentally, if the construction is made, as above, such that the reading and writing operations of the memory arrays are conducted at the unit of four bits, the conversions to the function of the data access at the unit of the four bits or the data input and output in a nibble mode can be effected relatively simply by changing mainly the constructions of the second column switch circuit and the input output circuit portion. The data input buffer DIB has its operations controlled by a timing signal which is generated from the timing generator TG, and generates write signals, which correspond to write signals fed from an external terminal Din, to feed them to the second column switch circuit CW2L or CW2R. The data input buffer DIB exhibits high output impedance characteristics when it is held in its inoperative state. The data output buffer DOB likewise has its operations controlled by a timing signal which is generated from the timing generator TG, and receives the read signals, which are outputted through the second column switch circuit CW2L or CW2R, to amplify and send out them to an external terminal Dout. The timing generator TG for controlling the data read write operations generates a variety of timing signals in response to the row address strobe signal In accordance with the present embodiment, it is necessary to change the operation timings of the switch circuits SWlL to SWlR in response to the states of the row address signals, as will become apparent from the detailed later description made with reference with Figs. 4A and 4B to Fig. 6. Therefore, the timing generator TG is made receptive of a part of the internal complementary address signals of the row system, which are outputted from the address buffer ADB. The switch circuits SWlL and SWlR are made to have the operations, as will be schematically described in the following. Incidentally, the operations of the switch circuits SW2L and SW2R corresponding to the memory arrays M2L and M2R are made substantially the same as those of the switch circuits SWlL and SWlR. In the description to be made in the following, for convenience of description, one of the paired complementary data lines of the memory array MlL will be called a first data line whereas the other will be called a second data line . Of the respective complementary data lines of the memory array MlR, on the other hand, the data line to correspond to the first data line will be called a third data line whereas the other data line will be called a fourth data line . Both the switch circuit SWlL and SWlR are held to on state before the start of the access of the RAM, i.e., when the row address strobe signal When the If the row address signal indicates such one of the plural memory cells of the memory array MlL as is coupled to the first data line, the switch circuit SWlR is first so switched before the start of the selection of the word lines of the memory array MlL as isolates the third data line of the memory array MlR from the input output terminals of the sense amplifier SA1, and then so switched after the start of the operations of the sense amplifier SA1 as isolates the fourth data line of the memory array MlR from the input output terminals of the sense amplifier SA1. As a result, the third data line of the memory array MlR is isolated from the first data line before the start of the selection of the memory cells, whereas the fourth data line is isolated from the second data line after the start of the selection of the memory cells and the operations of the sense amplifier SAl. Such one of the plural full size dummy cells of the sense amplifier SAl as is coupled to the second data line is selected in synchronism with the start of the selection of the word line. When the full size dummy cell is selected, the second data line is coupled to the fourth data line so that it has a data line capacitance substantially twice as large as that of each data line capacitance. As a result, the reference potential to be applied to the second data line by the full size dummy cells becomes equivalent to that which is applied to the data line by the half size dummy cells. In case the memory cells coupled to the second to fourth data lines are to be selected, the operations similar to the aforementioned ones are conducted. As is apparent from the description made above, each of the switch circuits SWlL and SWlR requires two kinds of timing signals. The timing signals for those switch circuits can be generated by the following construction. In each memory arrays, specifically, the plural memory cells and word lines are regularly arrayed. On the other hand, the row address decoders are usually so constructed as to regularly decode the row address signals. Specifically, the plural memory cells coupled to the first data line, for example, are coupled to the word lines of regularly discrete orders, respectively, and the plural memory cells coupled to the second data line are likewise coupled to the word lines of regularly discrete orders, respectively. Each word line is so ordered as to correspond to the order which is made by combining the row address signals. Therefore, whether or not one of the plural memory cells coupled to one data line is selected is determined by one or two bits of the row address signals which will be called dummy address signals , e.g., either the least significant bit or the least significant bit and the next order bit. Which of the paired memory arrays MlL and MlR is to be selected is determined by the level of one bit such as most significant bit of the row address signal which will be called an array selecting address signal . Therefore, the timing signals for the switch circuits SWlL and SWlR can be generated by an adequate not shown logic circuit which is made receptive of several delay or timing signals generated on the basis of the row address strobe signal The dummy word line selecting signals to be fed to the dummy word lines coupled to the dummy cells can be generated on the basis of the dummy address signals and the word line selecting timing signals. In accordance with the present embodiment, the data signal level to be fed to the first data line by the selected memory cell rises to a relatively large value because the first data line is isolated in advance from the third data line. The reference potential to be applied to the second data line is made accurate by the use of the full size dummy cells. Undesired level change of the second data line due to α particles is sufficiently small because the second data line has a substantially twice data line capacitance. As a result, the satisfactory read operations can be conducted. Figs. 4A and 4B are circuit diagrams showing one specific embodiment of the aforementioned memory arrays MlL and MlR and sense amplifier SAl. The embodied circuit as shown is composed of IGFETs i.e., Insulated Gate Field Effect Transistors which are represented by N channel MOSFETs. The memory array MlL is composed of a plurality of complementary data lines DL0L and The memory array MlR is made to have a construction similar to that of the memory array MlL. The sense amplifier SAl is constructed of a plurality of unit circuits each of which is composed of the amplifying MOSFETs Q1 and Q2 in the latch form. This sense amplifier SAl enlarges the minute difference of the potential change, which is given to each complementary data lines during the addressing, to the sense period which is determined timing signals or sense amplifier control signals ø In case, in the aforementioned addressing, when the memory cell MC coupled to one of the paired complementary data lines of the memory array MlL or MlR is selected, one of the paired dummy word lines DWL and The sense amplifier SAl has its unit circuit composed of the paired MOSFETs Q1 and Q2, which are cross connected, as has been described hereinbefore, and differentially amplifies the minute signal, which appears between the complementary data lines, by the positive feedback actions of those MOSFETs. These positive feedback actions are started when a MOSFET Q27 is turned by the timing signal ø Upon this addressing, the stored data of the memory cell MC, which were once ready to be broken, are recovered as a result that the high or low level potential generated by that sensing operation is written as it is in the memory cell MC. If the high level drops more than a predetermined extent with respect to the supply voltage Vcc as above, however, the repetitions of several times of the reading and rewriting operations will cause the erroneous operation that the high level may be written as the logic value 0 . In order to prevent this erroneous operation, therefore, there is provided the active restore circuit AR. This active restore circuit AR has an operation to selectively boost the high level signal only to the potential of the supply voltage Vcc without adversely affecting the low level signal. The active restore circuit AR is constructed of unit circuits UAR0 to UAR3 which are coupled to a pair of input output nodes of each unit sense amplifier. The unit circuit, e.g., UAR0 is composed, as shown in Fig. 5, of MOSFETs Q100 and Q101 which are connected between respective data lines DL0 and The precharge circuit PC is constructed of unit circuits which are coupled to the input output nodes of the sense amplifier SAl, respectively. Each of the unit circuits constructing the precharge circuit is composed, as shown in Fig. 4A, of precharge MOSFETs QPl and QP2 which are connected between the respective complementary data lines and the supply terminal Vcc of the circuit, although not especially limitative thereto. The timing signal ø As shown in Fig. 4A, the input output nodes of one of the unit circuits constructing the sense amplifier SAl are connected with a pair of common complementary data lines CDl and By thus providing the two sets of common complementary data lines CD1 and The switch circuit SWlL is composed, as shosn in Fig. 4A, of switch MOSFETs Q3 to Q10 which are connected between the respective data lines DL0L to The switch circuit SWlR is composed, as shown in Fig. 4B, of switch MOSFETs Q11 to Q18 which are connected between the respective data lines DL0R to Fig. 6 is a timing chart for explaining one example of the reading operations of the circuit according to the present embodiment. In the stand by state in which a column address strobe signal The access of the RAM is started when the row address strobe signal In response to the timing signals which are generated by the timing generator TG, the address buffer ADB of Fig. 3 takes in as a row address signal Xl the address signal which is fed from its external terminal. The not shown word line selecting timing signal, which are reset in advance at the low level for the stand by period of the RAM, are raised to the high level after the operations of the address buffer ADB. The row address decoders R DCRlL to R DCR2R are operated to decode the row address signal Xl when that the respective word line selecting timing signals are set at the high level. Thus, as shown at C in Fig. 6, there are generated the selecting signals for selecting one word line and the dummy word line corresponding to the former. In these selecting operations, when the memory cells MC coupled to the data lines DL0L, DLlL, DL2L and so on which will be called upper data lines whereas the data lines such as the data lines The timing signal ø Although not especially limitative, the timing signal SHR2 is dropped to the low level in substantial synchronism with the timing at which the timing signal ø In case the memory cells coupled to the lower data lines of the lefthand memory array MlL are to be subjected to the reading operations, the timing signal SHR2 is first caused to have the low level, and then the timing signal SHRl is caused to have the low level in synchronism with the operation timing of the sense amplifier SAl. In case the righthand memory array MlR is selected so that the data are read out from that memory array MlR, on the other hand, the timing signals SHRl and SHR2 are left at the high level, whereas the timing signals SHLl and SHL2 are respectively dropped to the low level with the time difference according to their selected states like the above operations. This similarly applies to the selecting operations of the paired memory arrays M2L and M2R which are arranged at the righthand side of Fig. 3. Next, when the column address strobe signal Next, the not shown data line selecting timing signals are outputted from the timing generator TG. The column address decoders C DCRl and C DCR2 are operated in response to the data line selecting timing signals and decode the internal complementary address signals to generate the data line selecting signals. In response to the data line selecting signals outputted from the column address decoder C DCRl, the totally four pairs of the complementary data lines are selected from the memory arrays MlL to M2R and are connected with the corresponding common complementary data lines, respectively. In response to the data line selecting signals outputted from the column address decoder C DCR2, moreover, a pair of the common complementary data lines are selected from the four pairs of the common complementary data lines. If the write enable signal When the write enable signal With the construction described above, the so called full size cells can be used as the dummy cells. In the case of the present embodiment, the full size dummy cells are stored with not the reference voltage itself, which is susceptible to the influences due to the fluctuations of the supply voltage, such as the voltage generated by a voltage divider or the like but the earth potential of the circuit. Therefore, the stable read reference voltage can be generated even for the fluctuations of the supply voltage. Since the full size dummy cells can be used, moreover, the highly accurate reference voltage can be generated even both with a limitation upon the fine pattern working accuracy and in case grooved capacitors are used. It is possible to realize a dynamic RAM having a large storage capacitance such as l megabits. In the present embodiment, moreover, the complementary data lines arranged at the right and left sides of the sense amplifier SAl are short circuited to each other so that an RAM resisting to the software error due to the α particles can be fabricated. Specifically, the complementary data lines are brought into their floating states in response to the inoperative state of the precharge circuit PC, which is invited at the start of the access of the RAM. The complementary data lines in the floating states have their respective levels determined exclusively in dependence upon the charges held in the respective capacitors so that they become susceptible to the influences by the α particles. In case one data line is exposed to the α particles, it has its level dropped by the leak current which is caused by the α particles. When the level of that data line is varied, the level difference between the complementary data lines is responsively varied in an undesirable manner. The influences due to the α particles are especially high when the levels between the complementary data lines are not sufficiencyly high, as at the start of the sensing operations of the data signals. Fig. 7A shows the voltage waveforms of the complementary data lines when the reference potential is changed by the α particles. Such one of data line which will be called a read data line of the complementary data lines as is to be fed with the read data signals from the memory cells is caused to take the high level H or the low level L, as indicated by a solid curve in Fig. 7A, when the selection of the memory cells is started. The other data line which will be called a reference data line of the complementary data lines, which is to be supplied with the reference potential, is caused to take the reference potential Vref as a result that the dummy cell is selected. In this case, the potential of the reference data line is dropped by the influences of the α particles, as shown by a broken curve in Fig. 7A. As a result, the reference potential to be applied to the reference data line when the dummy cell is selected is dropped to a lower level than that which is established in the case of no influence by the α particles. As a result of the reduction in the reference voltage Vref, the level difference between the low level L of the read data line and the reference potential Vref is undesirably reduced. In accordance with the present embodiment, however, the reference data line is enabled to have a substantially twice data line capacitance as a result that it is coupled to the corresponding data line of the memory array left unselected, as has been described hereinbefore. Therefore, the fluctuations of the reference potential Vref are suppressed to a narrow range even if the leak current is generated by the α particles. By these suppressed fluctuations of the reference voltage Vref, the reduction in the level difference between the complementary data lines in the reading operation of the low level is made small. Fig. 7B shows the voltage waveforms in case the levels of the data lines to be fed with the read data at the high level are adversely affected by the α particles. In the read data line, specifically, the charges stored in the capacitors Co thereof are reduced as a result that the data line is exposed to the α particles. As a result, the level of the read data line is changed from a solid curve to a broken curve of Fig. 7B. In other words, such a level of the read data line as has been dropped is presented, substantially as it is, as the high read level. Incidentally, it is desirable that the capacitance of the capacitor Cd forming a part of the dummy cell be slightly larger than that of the capacitor Cs of the memory cell by taking the following points into consideration. Specifically, in case the low level L is to be read out and in case the level of the read data is adversely affected by the α particles, the reduction in the level of that read data line enlarges as it is the read level margin for the reference voltage Vref. With this in mind, it is desirable that the reference voltage Vref be set at an approximately intermediate level between such a high level H of the read data line as is dropped by the α particles and the low level of the read data line in the case of no influence by the α particles. In other words, it is desirable that the capacitor Cd of the dummy cells be set at a value to impart a suitable offset to the reference voltage Vref by imagining the worst case by the α particles, i.e., the worst case of the level difference between the complementary data lines, which is caused by the α particles for the short time period after the respective data lines are brought into their floating states and before the sense amplifier is brought into its operative state. Incidentally, the α particles can naturally be radiated upon the capacitors of the memory cells or the dummy cells because they are substantially radiated at random upon the semiconductor substrate. In this case the probability of irradiating the capacitors with the α particles is negligible because the number of the dummy cells provided is small. On the contrary, the capacitors of the memory cells have their stored charges lost mostly when they are exposed to the α particles, because they have a remarkably small capacitance. In this case, the circuital measures can be prepared by adopting the well known error correcting construction using both a parity bit and an error correcting circuit, for example. Fig. 8 is a circuit diagram showing another embodiment of the present invention. In place of the shared sense amplifier construction of the second embodiment, the circuit of this embodiment is equipped with switch MOSFETs which are provided between the corresponding data lines of two memory arrays ML and MR having sense amplifiers, respectively. Incidentally, precharge circuits are omitted from Fig. 8 because they have no direct relationship with the gist of the present invention, which will be described in the following. The description will be first made upon the memory array ML which is arranged at the lefthand side of the same Figure. A pair of complementary data lines DL and MOSFETs Q27 and Q28 for rendering the sense amplifier SA operative have their gates fed with timing signals øLPl and øLP2 which are generated like the aforementioned embodiment when that memory array ML is brought into its selected state. Between the respective data lines and common data lines The memory array MR at the righthand side of Fig. 8 is equipped with data lines which are made to correspond one to one to the respective data lines of the memory array ML. That memory array MR is constructed of sense amplifiers SA, which are similar to those of the aforementioned left memory array ML, and a column switch circuit CWR. Operation timing signals øRPl and øRP2 of the sense amplifier SA are generated when that memory array MR is brought into its selected state. Each full size dummy cell DC is disposed at one of the corresponding data lines of the memory arrays ML and MR. Although not especially limitative, as shown, the lower data line Moreover, switch MOSFETs Q34 to Q37 are provided, respectively, between the corresponding data lines of the left and right memory arrays ML and MR. The switch MOSFETs Q34, Q36 and so on, which are provided between the respective upper data lines DL of the memory arrays ML and MR, have their gates connected in common and fed with a timing signal øl. Moreover, the switch MOSFETs Q35 and Q37 provided between the lower data lines DL have their gates connected in common and fed with a timing signal ø2. The circuit according to the present embodiment can take the following two constructions in accordance with the facts that the timings of the timing signals ø1, ø2, øLPl, øLP2, øRP1 and øRP2 generated from not shown timing generator are suitably changed, as will become apparent from the following description, and that the not shown row address decoders corresponding to the memory arrays ML and MR, respectively, are suitably modified. In the first construction, the lefthand memory array ML and the righthand memory array MR are alternatively selected. Specifically, the not shown row address decoders to correspond to the two memory arrays ML and MR are so constructed as to select one of the plural word lines of the two memory arrays ML and MR on the basis of the row address signals. The common data lines The operations of the circuit in the case of this first construction are made substantially similar to those of the circuits of the foregoing embodiments of Figs. 4A and 4B. The difference resides exclusively in that only such ones of the sense amplifiers SA and active restore circuits AR of the memory arrays ML and MR, respectively, as correspond to the memory array selected are brought into their operative states. Specifically, in case, for example, the memory cell coupled to the upper data line DL of the left hand memory array ML is to be selected, the timing signal øl is caused to take the low level, a shown at D in Fig. 9, before one word line of the memory array ML is brought into its selected state, so that the switch MOSFETs Q34, Q36 and so on are first rendered inconductive. As a result, when such a memory cell of the left hand memory array ML as is coupled to the upper data line DL is to be selected, that data line DL is isolated from the corresponding upper data line of the right hand memory array MR. In this case, the dummy word line In response to timing signal øLPl and the timing signal øLP2 generated subsequently of the former one, the sense amplifiers SA of the lefthand memory array ML are operated altogether to amplify the read signals coming from the memory cells selected. At a suitable timing after the sense amplifiers SA are operated, data line selecting signals YLl to YLn are generated so that a pair of the complementary data lines of the memory array ML are selected. According to the second construction, the two memory arrays ML and MR are simultaneously selected as a result that the not shown row address decoder is made to have a suitable construction. The respective word lines of the memory array ML are made to correspond one to one to the respective word lines of the memory array MR. The corresponding word lines of the memory arrays ML and MR are coupled to the memory cells which in turn are coupled to the corresponding data lines of the respective memory arrays ML and MR. The timing signals øLPl and øLP2, and øRPl and øRP2 for controlling the sense amplifiers coupled to the memory arrays ML and MR, respectively, are made identical to each other, as is different from the aforementioned first construction. The timing signals øl and ø2 for controlling the switch circuits Q34 to Q37 connected between the memory arrays ML and MR have their timings changed from those of the foregoing first construction, as will become apparent from the following description. The circuit made to have the second construction has the following operations. If the When the Of the timing signals øl and ø2, the timing signal for controlling the MOSFET coupled to the data line to be used as the read data line is caused to take the low level before the selection of the word lines is started. For example, if the upper data line DL of the complementary data lines of the respective memory arrays ML and MR is used as the read data line, the timing signal øl is caused to take the low level, as shown at D in Fig. 10. As a result, the upper data lines of the respective memory arrays ML and MR are electrically isolated from each other. After the timing signal øl or ø2 is caused to take the low level, the corresponding word lines of the memory arrays ML and MR are selected one by one. In synchronism with the word line selection, one of the dummy word lines DWL and Of the timing signals øl and ø2, the timing signal for controlling the MOSFET coupled to the reference data line is caused to take the low level for the time period after the dummy word lines are selected and before the timing signals for the sense amplifier control are generated. As a result, the reference data lines of the memory arrays ML and MR are electrically isolated from each other. After that, the sense amplifiers SA coupled to the memory arrays ML and MR are operated as a result that the timing signals øLPl, øRPl, øLP2 and øRP2 are generated, as shown at C in Fig. 10. After the operations of the sense amplifier SA, the data line selecting signals are generated by the not shown column address decoder so that the complementary data lines of each of the memory arrays ML and MR are coupled to the common data lines In the present embodiment, the sense amplifiers SA and the data lines are directly connected so that the operations of the sense amplifiers SA can be speeded up. In the present embodiment, too, the read reference voltage can be generated by the full size dummy cells. Since the stray capacitances of the data lines can be temporarily enlarged, moreover, the resistance to the software errors due to the α particles can be enhanced like the above embodiments. Fig. 11 is a circuit diagram showing the dynamic RAM according to a comparative example. In accordance with this example, between complementary data lines DL0 and Specifically, one of the timing signals øl and ø2 is caused in advance to take the low level prior to the start of the selection of the word lines, whereas the other is caused to take the low level after the start of the selection of the word lines and before the start of the operations of the sense amplifiers SA. As a result, the two series connected MOSFETs connected between the two data lines acting as the read data lines are turned off before the start of the selection of the word lines, whereas the two series connected MOSFETs connected between the two data lines acting as the reference data lines are turned off after the reference potential is generated by the dummy cells. The fluctuations of the reference potential by the α particles are reduced because the two reference data lines are short circuited to each other immediately before the start of the operations of the sense amplifiers SA. Fig. 12 is a circuit diagram showing a dynamic RAM according to a further embodiment of the present invention. The RAM of this embodiment is made to have the half precharge construction and is not equipped with any dummy cells. The RAM of this embodiment is equipped like the embodiment of Fig. 8 with the switch circuit SW which is composed of MOSFETs Q34 and Q35 and which is connected between data lines corresponding to the memory arrays ML and MR, respectively. A sense amplifier SA, a precharge circuit PC and the not shown memory cells are coupled to the respective complementary data lines DL and The precharge circuit PC is composed, as shown, of an N channel MOSFET Q128 which is connected between the complementary data lines DL and The sense amplifier SA is equipped with N channel MOSFETs Q120 and Q121 and P channel MOSFETs Q122 and Q123 which constitute together a CMOS latch circuit. The sense amplifier SA is further equipped with power switch N channel MOSFETs Q124 and Q125, which are connected between the common source of the MOSFETs Q120 and Q121 and the earth point of the circuit, and power switch P channel MOSFETs Q126 and Q127 which are connected between the common source of the MOSFETs Q122 and Q123 and the supply voltage Vcc of the circuit. The MOSFETs Q124 and Q126 are simultaneously turned on or off in response to timing signals øpal and In accordance with the present embodiment, the precharge levels of the respective complementary data lines DL and When the RAM is switched from its accessed state to its non accessed state, the not shown one word line of each of the memory arrays ML and MR is responsively set at the unselected low level, and the timing signals øpal and øpa2, and As a result that the timing signal øpc is caused to take the high level, the precharge circuit PC is rendered operative. The precharge circuit PC redistributes the mutual charges of the complementary data lines DL and The operations of the circuit of the present embodiment are made substantially identical to those of the foregoing embodiment of Fig. 8 except the difference of the precharge levels. Therefore, the description of the circuit operations after the precharge operations are omitted. With the present invention, the following effects can be achieved. Although the invention made by us has been specifically described hereinbefore in connection with the embodiments thereof, it can naturally be modified in various manners. The specific constructions of the memory arrays making up the dynamic RAM and the peripheral circuits of the same can take a variety of modes of embodiments. For example, the read reference voltage may be generated by using not only the full size dummy cells, as has been described hereinbefore, but also full size dummy cells which are precharged in advance to a voltage substantially half as high as the supply voltage. In this case, specifically, the full size dummy cells are coupled, respectively, to the data lines of one memory array. Moreover, the switch MOSFETs as in the embodiment of Fig. 11 are connected between the alternate ones DL, DL, , and so on or The example of Fig. 11 can be modified to have such a dummy cellless construction as is embodied in Fig. 12. In this case, the sense amplifiers of Fig. 11 and the not shown precharge circuits are replaced by those of Fig. 12, for example, and the dummy cells are dispensed with. In this case, moreover, the number of the data lines to be short circuited to each other in response to the timing signals øl and ø2 need not be two. The precharge level of each data line need not be Vcc 2. The precharge circuits may be made to have a construction, in which the respective data lines are coupled to a suitable potential source made of a voltage dividing circuit, in place of the construction in which the complementary data lines are simply short circuited to each other. The present invention can find its wide application to a memory such as the dynamic RAM which makes use of the read reference voltage. The dynamic RAM need not necessarily mean one independent device. For example, the RAM may be one which is formed on one semiconductor substrate together with a variety of circuits constructing a microcomputer system.