# Herbicidal composition.

## Abstract
A herbicidal composition comprising as the essential ac tive ingredients a 4 4 chloro 2 fluoro 5 iso propoxy phenyl 1,2 tetramethyleneurazol and b at least one of α,α,α trifluoro 2,6 dinitro N,N dipropyl p toluidine, 3 3,4 dichlorophenyl 1,1 dimethylurea and 1,1 dimethyl 3 3 tri fluoromethylphenyl urea.

## Claims
What is claimed is 1. A herbicidal composition which comprises as the essential active ingredients a 4 4 chloro 2 fluoro 5isopropoxyphenyl 1,2 tetramethyleneurazol and b at least one of alpha , alpha , alpha trifluoro 2 ,6 dinitro N,N dipropyl p toluidine, 3 3, 4 dichlorophenyl 1, 1 dimethylurea and 1, 1 dimethyl 3 3 trifluoromethylphenyl urea, and an inert carrier or diluent. 2. The composition according to claim 1, wherein the weight proportion of 4 4 chloro 2 fluoro 5 isopropoxy phenyl 1,2 tetramethyleneurazol as the component a and alpha , alpha , alpha trifluoro 2,6 dinitro N,N dipropyl p toluidine as the component b is 1 1 30. 3 The composition according to claim 1, wherein the weight proportion of 4 4 chloro 2 fluoro 5 isopropoxy phenyl 1,2 tetramethyleneurazol as the component a and 3 3, 4 dichiorophenyl 1, 1 dimethylurea and or 1,l diméthyl 3 3 trifluoromethylpheny urea as the component b is i 1 30. 4. The composition according to claim 1, wherein the content of the active ingredients is from 1 to 95 by weight. 5. A method for controlling weeds which comprises applying a herbicidally effective amount of the composition according to claim 1 to the weeds. 6. The method according to claim 6, wherein the weeds are those germinated in the field of cotton. 7. The method according to claim 6, wherein the amount of the active ingredients which are 4 4 chloro 2 fluoro 5 isopropoxyphenyl 1, 2 tetramethyleneurazol as the component a and a ,a, a trifluoro 2, 6 dinitroN,N dipropyl p toluidine as the component b to be applied is from 2.5 to 25 grams per are. 8. A method according to claim 6, wherein the amount of the active ingredients which are 4 4 chloro 2 fluoro 5 isopropoxyphenyl 1, 2 tetramethyleneurazol as the component a and 3 3, 4 dichlorophenyl 1, 1 dimethylurea and or 1,1 dimethyl 3 3 trifluoromethylpheny urea as the component b to be applied is from 5.5 to 40 grams per are.

## Description
HERBICIDAL COMPOSITION The present invention relates to a herbicidal composition. More particularly, it relates to a herbicidal composition comprising as the essential active ingredient a 4 4 chloro 2 fluoro 5 isopr9oxyphenyl l 2 tetra methyleneurazol hereinafter referred to as Compound I of the formulaEMI1.1 and b at least one of alpha , alpha , alpha trifluoro 2,6 dinitro N,N dipropyl p toluidine hereinafter referred to as trifluralin , 3 3, 4 dichiorophenyl 1, 1 dimethylurea hereinafter referred to as diuron and l,l dimethyl 3 3 trifluoromethylphenyl urea hereinafter referred ta as jfluometuron , which exerts a highly enhanced herbicidal activity against various weeds, particularly GraminaceOus weeds without any material phytotoxicity to cotton. In recent years, a great number of chemicals having herbicidal activities were used in order to exterminate or control the undesired vegetation of weeds. However, the are many different kinds of weeds and, in consequence, the germination thereof as well as the stages of growth differ from each other The herbicidal effects of conventional herbicidal agents are thus quite restricted in general. In view of thins situation, there has been a qreat deand for a herbicidal agent which exerts a strong herbicidal activity against a wide variety of weeds without any material phytotoxicity to crop plants. Compound I is known to exert a herbicidal activity against various weeds, particularly broad leaved weeds and Graminaceous weeds cf. EP A 0075267 . However, its herbicidal activity against Graminaceous weeds is sometimes not sufficient when applied in small doses or at low concentrations. While its application in a large doses or at high concentrations may rv lt in a sufficient herbicidal activity against Graminaceous weeds, a phytotcicity to cotton may simultaneously develop.Extensive studies have been made in order to improve said drawbacks as seen on Compound I As a result, it has now been found that the use of a Compound I and b at least one of trifluralin, diuron and fluometuron in combination can eliminate said drawbacks and exert a satisfactory herbicidal activity on Graminaceous weeds or broad leaved weeds, particularly on the former, in the cotton field without any material chemical injury to cotton. Trifluralin, diuron and fluometuron are all well known as herbicides cf. The Pesticide Mannual, 6th Ed., pages 224, 275 and 537 1979 Herbicidal Handbook, 5th Ed., pages 203, 238 and 470 1983 . Besides, in comparison with their individual or sole use, their combined use produces a synergistic effect i.e. the equal herbicidal effect can be achieved at smaller doses or lower concentrations of the active ingredients. The composition according to the invention can exterminate or control a variety pf weeds belonging to cotyledonous and dicotyledonous weeds, of which typical examples are as follows common lambsquarters Chenopodium album , redroot pigweed Amaranthus retroflexus , smartweed Polygonum sp. , chickweed Stellaria medina , common purslane Portulaca oleracea , cocklebur Xanthium strumarium , jimsonweed Datura stramonium , velvetleaf Abutilon theophrasti , tall morningglory tpomoea purpurea , hemp sesbania Sesbania exaltata , prickly sida Sida spinosa , black nightshade Solanum nigrum , green foxtail Setaria viridis , large crabgrass Digitaria sanguinalis , annual bluegrass Poa annua , goosegrass Eleusine indica , barnyardgrass Echinochloa crus galli , johnsongrass Sorghum halepense , purple nutsedge Cyperus rotundus , yellow nutsedge Cyperus esculentus , etc. The composition of the invention may contain from 1 to 95 by weight, preferably from 5 to 80 by weight of the active ingredients, i.e. the components a and b .The weight proportion of the components a and b in the composition may vary within a broad range, usually from 1 0.5 to 1 30. When the component b is trifluralin, the weight proportion of the components a and b is normally 1 1 30. When the component b is diuron and or fluometuron, the normal weight proportion is 1 1 30. The composition may additionally contain a solid or liquid carrier or diluent. Any surface active or auxiliary agent may also be contained therein. Thus, the composition may be formulated in any conventional preparation form such as emulsifiable concentrate, wettable powder, suspension or granules. As solid carrier or diluent, there may be used kaolin clay, attapulgite clay, bentonite, terra alba, pyrophyllite, talc, diatomaceous earth, calcite, wallnutshell powder, urea, ammonium sulfate, synthetic hydrated silicon dioxide, etc. Examples of the liquid carrier or diluent are aromatic hydrocarbons e.g, xylene, methylnaphthalene , alcohols e.g. isopropanol, methylene glycol, cellosolve , Ketones e.g. acetone, cyclohexanone, iso phorone , vegetable oils e.g. soybean oil, cotton seed oil , dimethylsulfoxide, acetonitrile, water, etc. The surface active agent used for emulsification, dispersion or spreading may be any of the anionic and nonionic type of agents. Examples of the surface active agent include alkylsulfates, alkylarylsulfonates, dialkylsulfosuccinates, phosphates of polyoxyethylenealkylaryl ethers, polyoxyethylene alkyl ethers, polyoxyethylene alkylaryl ethers, polyoxyethylene polyoxypropylene block copolymers, sorbitan fatty acid esters, polyoxyethylene sorbitan fatty acid esters, etc. Examples of the auxiliary agents include ligninsulfonates, sodium alginate, polyvinyl alcohol, gum arabic, CMC carboxymethyl cellulose , PAP isopropyl acid phosphate , etc. Practical embodiments of the composition according to the invention are illustratively shown in the followingFormulation Examples wherein part s are by weight. Formulation Example 1 Nine parts of Compound I , 41 parts of trifluralin, 3 parts of calcium ligninsulfonate, 2 parts of sodium laurylsulfate and 45 parts of synthetic hydrated silicon dioxide are well mixed while being powdered to obtain a wettable powder. Formulation Example 2 Six parts of Compound I , 44 parts of diuron, 3 parts of calcium ligninsulfonate, 2 parts of sodium laurylsulfate and 45 parts of synthetic hydrated silicon dioxide are well mixed while being powdered to obtain a wettable powder. Formulation Example 3 Two parts of Compound 1 , 8 parts of trifluralin, 14 parts of polyoxyethylene styrylphenyl ether, 6 parts of calcium dodecylbenzenesulfonate and 70 parts of xylene are well mixed while being powdered to obtain an emulsifiable concentrate. Formulation Example 4 One part of Compound I , 9 parts of fluometuron., 14 parts of polyoxyethylene styrylpenyl ether, 6 parts of calcium dodecylbenzenesulfonate and 70 parts of xylene are well mixed while being powdered to obtain an emulsifiable concentrate. Formulation Example 5 0.4 Part of Compound I , 1.6 parts of tri fluralin, 1 part of synthetic hydrated silicon dioxide, 2 parts of calcium ligninsulfonate, 30 parts of bentonite and 65 parts of kaolin clay are well mixed while being pulverized. The resulting powder is admixed with water and dried to obtain a granule. Formulation Example 6 0.2 Part of Compound I , 1.8 parts of diuron, 1 part of synthetic hydrated silicon dioxide, 2 parts of calcium ligninsulfonate, 30 parts of bentonite and 65 parts of kaolin clay are well mixed while being pulverized. The resulting powder is admixed with water and dried to obtain a granule. Formulation Example 7 Four parts of Compound I , 21 parts of trifluralin, 3 parts of polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate, 3 parts of CMC and 69 parts of water are well mixed and pulverized until the particle size becomes less than 5 microns to obtain a suspension. Formulation Example 8 Three parts of Compound I , 22 parts of fluometuron, 3 parts of polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate, 3 parts of CMC and 69 parts of water are well mixed and pulverized until the particle size becomes less than 5 microns to obtain a suspension. The composition thus prepared may be applied as such to the weeds. Alternatively, it may be applied by diluting with water. The application is effected.by such a means as foliar or soil treatment and, in case of the latter, the composition is sprayed to the soil surface, if necessary, followed by mixing up with the soil, or perfused into the soil. In order to improve its activity as herbicide, the herbicidal composition of the invention may be also used with other herbicides. Besides, it may be used in combination with insecticides, acaricides, nematocides, fungicides, plant growth regulators, fertilizers, soil improvers, etc. The dosage of the active ingredients may vary depending on prevailing weather conditions, soil involved, preparation form used, mixing proportion of each active ingredient, crop and weed species, etc. In general, however, the total amount of Compound I and trifluralin is favored to be within a range of 2.5 to 25 grams per are, preferably 3.5 to 16 grams, and the total amount of Compound I and diuron and or fluometuron is favored to be within a range of 5.5 to 40 grams per are, preferably 7 to 28 grams. In case of the composition being formulated into an emulsifiable concentrate, wettable powder or suspension, it may be diluted with water and applied over the top at a volume of 1 to 10 liters per are to the foliage of the crop plants or weeds which germinate or have germinated.The dilution may include, in addition to the above mentioned surface active agent, any spreading or auxiliary agent such as polyoxyethylene resin acid esters, ligninsulfonates, abietic acid, dinaphthylmethanedisulfonates, paraffin and the like. The composition being formulated into granules is generally applied as such. The practical herbicidal activity of the composition of the invention will be explained in further detail with reference to the following Test Examples wherein the growth controlling percentage was determined by weighing the aerial parts of the test plants fresh weight and making calculation according to the following equation EMI8.1 tb Growth SEP SEP SEP Fresh SEP weight SEP of SEP test tb controlling SEP SEP SEP 1 SEP SEP plant SEP in SEP treated SEP plot SEP x SEP 100 tb percentage SEP 1 SEP Fresh SEP weight SEP of SEP test SEP SEP x SEP tb SEP s SEP SEP SEP plant SEP in SEP untreated SEP plot tb Test Example 1 The seeds of tall morningglory were sowed in a cylindrical pot diameter, 10 cm length, 10 cm filled with field soil and covered therewith.A designed amount of the composition in the form of an emulsifiable concentrate powder formulated in accordance with Formulation Example 3 was diluted with water and sprayed to the soil surface at a spray volume of 10 liters per are by the aid of a small hand sprayer, followed by mixing up of the soil to the depth of 3 cm. After 20 days cultivation in a greenhouse, the growth controlling percentage was observed. The results are shown in Table .1. Table 1EMI9.1 SEP SEP SEP verbar tb SEP Compound SEP I SEP Growth SEP controlling SEP percentage SEP tb SEP gia tb SEP 0 SEP O SEP 0.5 SEP 1 SEP 1.5 SEP 2 SEP 4 tb Trifluralin SEP O SEP 0 SEP 20 SEP 35 SEP 44 SEP 74 SEP 96 tb SEP g a tb SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 49 SEP 65 SEP 71 SEP 96 SEP 100 tb SEP 4 SEP 11 SEP 70 SEP 87 SEP 92 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 8 SEP 34 SEP 88 SEP 95 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 16 SEP 82 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb Test Example 2 The seeds of johnsongrass were sowed in a cylindrical pot diameter, 10 cm length, 10 cm filled with field soil and covered therewith.A designed amount of the composition in the form of an emulsifiable concentrate powder formulated in accordance with Formulation.Example 4 was diluted with water and sprayed to the soil surface at a spray volume of 10 liters per are by the aid of a small hand sprayer. After 20 days cultivation in a greenhouse, the growth controlling percentage was observed. The results are shown in Table 2. Table 2EMI10.1 tb SEP Compound SEP I SEP Growth SEP controlling SEP percentage SEP m tb SEP ga tb SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 1.5 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 4 tb Diuron SEP O SEP 0 SEP 15 SEP 31 SEP 54 SEP 68 SEP 83 tb SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 46 SEP 67 SEP 76 SEP 88 SEP 100 tb SEP 10 SEP 11 SEP 80 SEP 86 SEP 92 SEP 97 SEP 100 tb SEP 15 SEP 42 SEP 87 SEP 98 SEP SEP 100 SEP 2 0O SEP 100 tb SEP 20 SEP 56 SEP 94 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 40 SEP 84 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb Fluo SEP O SEP 0 SEP 15 SEP 31 SEP I SEP 54 SEP 68 SEP 83 tb eturon tb SEP g a SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 43 SEP 61 SEP 75 SEP 85 SEP 1b0 tb SEP 10 SEP 12 SEP 79 SEP 86 SEP 91 SEP 98 SEP 100 tb SEP 15 SEP 40 SEP 84 SEP 95 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 20 SEP 55 SEP 92 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 40 SEP 82 SEP 106 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb Test Example 3 Seeds of barnyardgrass, prickly sida, velvetleaf and cotton were sowed in a vat 33 x 23 x 11 cm filled with field soil and covered therewith at a depth of 1 to 2 cm. A designed amount of the composition in the form of an emulsifiable concentrate formulated in accordance with FormulationExample 3 was diluted with water and sprayed to the soil surface at a spray volume of 10 liters per are by the aid of a small hand sprayer. Twenty days cultivation thereafter in a greenhouse, the growth controlling percentage as well as the phytotoxicity to cotton, the latter being made visually, was observed. The results are shown in Table 3. Table 3EMI11.1 tb SEP Dosage SEP Growth SEP controlling SEP Phyto tb SEP g a SEP percentage SEP SEP toxicity tb SEP Barn SEP Prickly SEP Velvet SEP Cotton tb SEP yard SEP sida SEP leaf tb SEP grass tb Compound SEP I SEP 1 SEP 24 SEP 96 SEP 97 SEP None tb Trifluralin SEP 5 SEP i SEP 97 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP None tb Compound SEP I SEP 1 SEP SEP 5 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP SEP tb Trifluralin tb Untreated SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP O SEP None tb Test Example 4 Seeds of barnyardgrass, prickly sida, velvetleaf and cotton were sowed in a vat 33 x 23 x 11 cm filled with field soil and covered therewith at a depth of l to 2 cm A designed amount of the composition in the form of an emulsifiable concentrate formulated in accordance with FormulationExample 4 was diluted with water and sprayed to the soil surface at a spray volume of ia liters per are by the aid of a small hand sprayer. Twenty days cultivation thereafter in a greenhouse, the growth controlling percentage as well as the phytotoxicity to cotton, the latter being made visually, was observed. The results are shown in Table 4. Table 4EMI12.1 tb SEP Dosage SEP Growth SEP controlling SEP Phyto tb SEP g a SEP percentage SEP SEP toxicity tb SEP Barn SEP Prickly SEP Velve SEP Cotton tb SEP yard SEP sida SEP leaf tb grass tb Compound SEP I SEP 1 SEP 24 SEP 96 SEP 97 SEP None tb Diuron SEP 10 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 12 SEP None tb Compound SEP I SEP 1 SEP SEP 10 SEP 93 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP SEP tb Diuron tb Fluometuron SEP 10 SEP 12 SEP 4 SEP 14 SEP None tb Compound SEP I SEP 1 SEP SEP 10 SEP 97 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP tb Fluometuron SEP tb Untreated SEP SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP SEP None tb