# Polycarbonates exhibiting improved heat resistance.

## Abstract
Thermoplastic polymer exhibiting improved heat resist ance comprised of the polymerized reaction products of i a carbonate precursor, and ii at least one dihydric phenol represented by the general formula

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. Thermoplastic polymeric composition exhibiting improved heat resistance comprised of i st least one thermoplastic polymer comprised of the reaction products of a a carbonate precursor and b at least one dihydric phenol represented by the general formulaEMI72.1 where in R is independently selected from alkyl radicals, each n is two, Rl is independently selected from monovalent hydrocarbon radicals, X represents a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 8 to about 16 ring carbon atoms, and In represents a whole number having a value of from 0 up to the number of replaceable hydrogen atoms present on X. 2. The composition of claim 1 wherein m has value of from 0 to 6. 3. The composition of claim 2 wherein m is 0. 4. The composition of claim 3 wherein said alkyl radicals represented by R are lower alkyl radicals. 5. The composition of claim 4 wherein said lower alkyl radicals contain from 1 to about 4 carbon atoms. 6. The composition of claim 4 wherein X represents a cycloalkylidene radical containing fro 10 to about 16 ring carbon atoms. 7. The composition of claim 6 wherein X represents a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 11 to about 16 ring carbon atoms. 8. The composition of claim 7 wherein X represents a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 12 to 16 ring carbon atoms. 9. The composition of claim 4 wherein said dihydric phenol is represented by the formulaEMI73.1 10. The composition of claim 9 wherein X represents a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 10 to about 16 ring carbon atoms. 11. The composition of claim 10 wherein X represents a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 11 to about 16 ring carbon atoms. 12. The composition of claim 11 wherein X represents a cycloalkylidene radical containing fror 12 to 16 ring carbon atoms. 13. The composition of claim 9 wherein said carbonate precursor is phosgene. 14. The composition of claim 9 wherein said dihydric phenol is represented by the general formulaEMI74.1 15. The composition of claim 14 wherein X represents a cycioalkyliene radical containing from 10 to about 16 ring carbon atoms. 16. The composition of claim 15 wherein X represents a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 11 to about 16 ring carbon atoms. 17. The composition of claim 16 wherein X represents a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 12 to 16 ring carbon atoms. 18. The composition of claim 17 wherein X represents the cyclododecylidene radical. 19. The composition of claim 18 wherein eachR is methyl. 20. The composition of claim 19 wherein said carbonate precursor is phosgene. 21. The composition of claim 1 which further contains a flame retardant amount of at least one flame retardant compound. 22. The composition of claim 21 wherein said flame retardant compound is selected from the organic salts of the alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of sulfonic acids. 23. The composition of claim 1 which further contains an impact modifying amount of at least one impact modifying compound. 24. The composition of claim 1 wherein said thermoplastic polymer i is comprised of the reaction products of a b and c at least one dihydric phenol represented by the general formulaEMI76.1 wherein R2is independently selected from halogen radicals, monovalent hydrocarbon radicals, and monovalent hydrocarbonoxy radicals, A is selected from alkylene radicals, alkylidene radicals, cycloalkylene and cycloalkylidene radicals containing from 4 to 6 ring carbon atoms2 S , S S , O ,EMI76.2 b is either zero or one, and a is independently selected from whole numbers having a vlue of from 0 to 4 inclusive. 25. The composition of claim 24 wherein the amount of said dihdyric phenol b used is an amount effective to imrpove the heat resistance thereof. 26. The composition of claim 25 wherein said amount of b is from about 5 to about 90 weight percent, based on the amount of dihydric phenols b and c used. 27. The composition of claim 26 wherein said amount is from about 10 to about 80 weight percent. 28. The composition of claim 25 wherein b is one. 29. The composition of claim 28 wherein A is selected from alkylene and alkylidene radicals. 30. The composition of claim 29 whereinR2 is independently selected from monovalent hydrocarbon radicals. 31. The composition of claim 30 wherein a is zero and A is an alkylidene radical. 32. The composition of claim 31 wherein said dihydric phenol is bisphenol A. 33. The composition of claim 32 wherein said dihydric phenol b is represented by the general formulaEMI77.1 wherein each R is independently selected from lower alkyl radicals. 34. The composition of claim 33 whereinX represents the cyclododecylidene radical. 35. The composition of claim 34 wherein eachR is methyl. 36. The composition of claim 35 wherein said carbonate precursor is phosgene. 37. The composition of claim 25 which further contains a flame retardant amount of at least one flame retardant compound. 38. The composition of claim 37 wherein said flame retardant compound is selected from the organic alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of sulfonic acids. 39. The composition of claim 35 which further contains an impact modifying amount of at least one impact modifying compound. 40. The composition of claim 1 which further contains i at least one thermoplastic resin comprised of the reaction products of d a carbonate precursor and e at least one dihydric phenol represented by the general formula EMI79.1 wherein R2is independently selected from halogen radicals, monovalent hydrocarbon radicals, and monovalent hydrocarbonoxy radicals, A is selected fro alkylene radicals, alkylidene radicals, cycloalkylene and cycloalkylidene radicals containing fro 4 to 6 ring carbon atoms, S , S S , O ,EMI79.2 b is either zero or one, and a is independently selected from whole numbers having a value of from 0 to 4 inclusive. 41. The composition of claim 40 which contains an amount of polymer i effective to improve the heat resistance thereof. 42. The composition of claim 41 wherein said amount of polymer i is in the range of from about 5 to about 90 weight percent, based on the total amounts of polymer i and resin ii present. 43. The composition of claim 42 wherein said amount is in the range of from about 10 to about 80 weight percent. 44. The composition of claim 41 wherein b is one. 45. The composition of claim 44 wherein A is selected from alkylene and alkylidene radicals. 46. The composition of claim 45 wherein said dihdyric phenol b of polymer i is represented by the general formulaEMI80.1 wherein each R is independently selected from lower alkyl radicals. 47. The composition of claim 46 wherein X is the cyclododecylidene radical. 48. The composition of claim 47 wherein eachR R is a methyl radical. 49. The composition of claim 48 wherein said dihydric phenol e of resin ii is bisphenol A. 50. The composition of claim 49 wherein said carbonate precursor is phosgene. 51. The composition of claim 41 which further contains a flame retardant amount of at least one flame retardant compound. 52. The composition of clalm 51 wherein said flame retardant compound is selected from the organic alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of sulfonic acids. 53. The composition of claim 41 which further contains an impact modifying amount of at least one impact modifying compound. 54. The composition of claim 1 wherein said polymer i is comprised of the reaction products of a b and f at least one difunctional carboxylic acid or an ester forming reactive derivative thereof. 55. The composition of claim 54 wherein m is zero. 56. The composition of claim 55 wherein said alkyl radicals represented by R are lower alkyl radicals. 57. The composition of claim 56 wherein said lower alkyl radicals contain from 1 to about 4 carbon atoms. 58. The composition of claim 56 wherein X represents a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 10 to about 16 ring carbon atoms. 59. The composition of claim 58 wherein X represents a cyclaolkylidene radical containing from 11 to about 16 ring carbon atoms. 60. The composition of claim 59 wherein X represents a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 12 to 16 ring carbon atoms. 61. The composition of claim 56 wherein said dihydric phenol b is represented by the general formulaEMI82.1 62. The composition of claim 61 wherein X represents a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 10 to about 16 ring carbon atoms. 63. The composition of claim 62 wherein X represents a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 11 to about 16 ring carbon atoms. 64. The composition of claim 63 wherein X represents 2 cycloalkylidene radical containing frow 12 to 16 ring carbon. atones. 65. The composition of claim 61 wherein said dihydric phenol b is represented by the general formulaEMI83.1 66. The composition of claim 65 wherein X represents a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 10 to about 16 ring carbon atoms. 67. The composition of claim 66 wherein X represents a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 11 to about 16 ring carbon atoms. 68. The composition of claim 67 wherein X represents a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 12 to about 16 ring carbon atoms. 69. The composition of claim 68 wherein X represents cyclododecylidene. 70. The composition of claim 69 wherein eachR is methyl. 71. The composition of claim 65 wherein said difunctional carboxylic acid is selected from isophthalic acid, terephthalic acid, and mixtures thereof. 72. The composition of claim 65 wherein said reactive derivative of said difunctional carboxylic acid is selected from isophthaloyl dichloride, terephthaloyl dichloride, and mixtures thereof. 73. The composition of claim 72 wherein said carbonate precursor is phosgene. 74. The composition of claim 54 which further contains a flame retardant amount of at least one flame retardant compound. 75. The composition of claim 74 wherein said aflame retardant compound is selected from the alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of organic sulfonic acids. 76. The composition of claim 54 which further contains an impact modifying amount of at least one impact modifying compound. 77. The composition of claim 54 wherein said polymer i is comprised of the reaction products or a b f and g at least one dihydric phenol represented by the general formulaEMI85.1 wherein R2 is independently selected from halogen radicals, monovalent hydrocarbon radicals, and monovalent hydrocarbonoxy radicals, A is selected from alkylene radicals, alkylidene radicals, cycloalkylene and cycloalkylidene radicals containing from 4 to 6 ring carbon atoms, S , S S , Q , EMI85.2 b is either zero or one, and a is independently selected from whole numbers having a value of from 0 to 4 inclusive. 78. The composition of claim 77 wherein the amount of said dihydric phenol Cb employed is an amount effective to imrpove the heat resistance thereof. 79. The composition of claim 78 wherein said amount of dihydric phenol b is from about 5 to about 90 weight percent, based on the amount of dihydric phenols b and g employed. 80. The composition of claim 79 wherein said amount is froe about 10 to about 80 weight percent. 81. The composition of claim 78 wherein b is one. 82. The composition of claim 81 wherein A is selected from alkylene and alkylidene radicals. 83. The composition of claim 81 wherein said dihydric phenol b is represented by the general formulaEMI86.1 wherein each R is independently selected from lower alkyl radicals. 84. The composition of claim 83 wherein X represents a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 10 to about 16 ring carbon atoms. 85. The composition of claim 84 wherein X represents a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 11 to about 16 ring carbon atoms. 86. The composition of claim 85 wherein X represents G cycloalkylldene radical containing from 12 to 16 rig carbon atoms. 87. The composition of claim 86 wherein X represents the cyclododecylidene radical. 88. The composition of claim 87 wherein eachR is the methyl radical. 89. The composition of claim 83 wherein said difunctional carboxylic acid is selected from isophthalic acid, terephthalic acid, and mixtures thereof. 90. The composition of claim 83 wherein said reactive derivative of said difunctional carboxylic acid is selected from isophthaloyl dichloride, terephthaloyl dichloride, and mixtures thereof. 91. The composition of claim 90 wherein said carbonate precusor is phosgene. 92. The composition of claim 77 which further contains a flame retardant amount of at least one flame retardant compound. 93. The composition of claim 92 wherein said flame retardant compound is selected from the alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of sulfonic acids. 94. The composition of claim 77 which further contains an impact modifying amount of at least one impact modifying compound. 95. The composition of claim 54 which further contains iii at least one thermoplastic resin comprised of the reaction products of h a carbonate precursor i at least one difunctional carboxylic acid or an ester forming reactive derivative thereof and j at least one dihydric phenol represented by the general formulaEMI88.1 wherein R2 is independently selected from halogen radicals, monovalent hydrocarbon radicals, and monovalent hydrocarbonoxy radicals, A is selected from alkylene radicals, alkylidene radicals, cycloalkylene and cycloalkylidene radicals containing from 4 to 6 ring carbon atoms, S , S S , O ,EMI89.1 b is either zero or one, and a is independently selected from whole numbers having a value of from 0 to 4 inclusive. 96. The comPosition of claim 95 which contains an amount of polymer i effective to imrpove the heat resistance thereof. 97. The composition of claim 96 wherein said amount of polymer i is from about 5 to about 90 weight percent, based on the amounts of polymers i and resin iii present. 98. The composition of claim 97 wherein said amount is from about 10 to about 80 weight percent. 99. The composition of claim 96 wherein m is zero. 100. The composition of claim 99 wherein b is one. 101. The composition of claim 100 wherein A is selected from alkylene and alkylidene radicals. 102. The composition of claim 101 wherein said dihydric phenol b of polymer i is represented by the general formulaEMI90.1 wherein each R is independently selected from lower alkyl radicals. 103. The composition of claim 102 wherein X represents a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 10 to about 16 ring carbon atoms. 104. The composition of claim 103 wherein X represents a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 11 to about 16 ring carbon atoms. 105. The composition of claim 104 wherein X represents a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 12 to 16 ring carbon atoms. 106. The composition of claim 105 wherein X represents the cyclododecylidene radical. 107. The composition of claim 106 wherein eachR is the methyl radical. 108. The composition of claim 102 wherein said difunctional carboxylic acid is selected from isophthalic acid, terephthalic acid, and mixtures thereof. 109. The co osition of claim 102 wherein saic reactive derIvative of said difunctional carboxylic acid is selected from terephthaloyl dichloride, isophthaloyl dichloride, and mixtures thereof. 110. The composition of claim 109 wherein said carbonate precursor is phosgene. 111. The composition of claim 96 which further contains an amount of at least one flame retardant compound effective to render said composition flame retardant. 112. The composition of claim 111 wherein said flame retardant compound is selected from the alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of sulfonic acids. 113. The composition of claim 96 which further contains an impact modifying amount of at least one impact modifying compound. 114. Dihydric phenols represented by the general formula EMI92.1 wherein R is independently selected from alkyl radicals n is 2 R1 is independently selected from monovalent hydrocarbon radicals in is a whole number having a value of from 0 up to the number of replaceable hydrogen atoms present on X and X is a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 8 to about 16 ring carbon atoms. 115. The phenols of claim 114 wherein said alkyl radicals represented by R are selected from lower iDH1 radicals. 116. The phenols of claim 115 wherein said lower alkyl radicals are selected from alkyl radicals containing from 1 to about 4 carbon atoms. 117. The phenols of claim 116 wherein said monovalent hydrocarbon radicals represented by R1 are selected from alkyl radicals. 118. The phenols of claim 115 wherein m is zero. 119. The phenols of claim.118 wherein X represents a cyclaolkylidene radical containing from 10 to about 16 ring carbon atoms. 120. The phenols of claim 119 wherein X represents a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 11 to about 16 ring carbon atoms. 121. rne phenols of claim 120 wherein X represents a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 12 to 14 ring carbon atoms. 122. The phenols of claim 118 represented by the general formulaEMI93.1 123. The phenols of claim 122 wherein X represents a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 10 to about 16 ring carbon atoms. 124. The phenols of claim 123 wherein X represents a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 11 to about 16 ring carbon atoms. 125. The phenols of claim 124 wherein X represents a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 12 to 14 ring carbon. atoms. 126. The phenols of claim 122 represented by the general formulaEMI94.1 wherein each R is independently selected from lower alkyl radicals containing from 1 to about 4 carbon atoms. 127. The phenols of claim 126 wherein X represents a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 10 to about 16 ring carbon atoms. 128. The phenols of claim 126 wherein X represents a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 11 to about 16 ring carbon atoms. 129. The phenols of claim 129 wherein X represents a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 12 to 14 ring carbon atoms. 130. The phenols of claim 129 wherein X represents the cyclododecylidene radical. 131. The phenols of claim 130 wherein each R is the methyl radical. 132. Thermoplastic polymeric blends comprised of i at least one thermoplastic polymer comprised of the reaction products of a a carbonate precursor, and b at least one dihydrlc phenol represented by the general formulaEMI95.1 wherein R1 is independently selected from monovalent hydrocarbon radicals, R is independently selected from lower alkyl radicals, X is selected from monocyclic cyclo alkylidene radicals containing from 8 to about 16 ring carbon atoms, n is two, and m is a whole number having a value of from 0 up to th number of replaceable hydrogen atomspresent on X and ii at least one polymer comprised of the reaction products of c a carbonate precursor, d at least one difunctional carboxylic acid or an ester forming reactive derivative thereof, and e at least one dihydric phenol represented by the general formulaEMI96.1 wherein R2 is independently selected from halogen radicals, monovalent hydrocarbon radicals, and monovalent hydrocarbonoxy radicals, A is selected from alkylene radicals, alkylidene radicals, cycloalkylene and cycloalkylidene radicals containing from 4 to 6 ring carbon atoms, S , S S , O ,EMI96.2 a is independently selected from whole numbers having a value of from o to 4 inclusive, and b is either zero or one. 133. The blends of claim 132 wherein m is zero. 134. The blends of claim 133 wherein X is selected from cycloalkylidene radicals containing from 10 to about 16 ring carbon atoms. 135. The blends of claim 134 wherein said carbonate precursor is phosgene. 136. The blends of claim 135 wherein said dihydric phenol e is bisphenol A. 137. The blends of claim 136 wherein said dihydric phenol b is l,l bis 3,5 aimethyl 4 hydroxyphenyl cyclododecane. 139. Thermoplastic polymeric blends comprised of i at least one polymer comprised of the reaction products of a a carbonate precursor, b at least one difunctional carboxylic acid or an ester forming reactive derivative thereof, and c at least one dihydric phenol represented by the general formulaEMI97.1 wherein IL is independently selected from lower alkyl radicals, is independently selected from mono valent hydrocarbon radicals, X is selected from monocyclic cyclo alkylidene radicals containing from 8 to about 16 ring carbon atoms, n is two, and m is a whole number having a value of from 0 up to the number of replaceable hydrogen atoms present on X and ii at least one polymer comprised of the reaction products of d a carbonate precursor, and e at least one dihydric phenol represented by the general formulaEMI98.1 wherein R2is independently selected from halogen radicals, monovalent hydrocarbon radicals, and monovalent hydrocarbonoxy radicals, A is selected from alkylene radicals, alkylidene radicals, cycloalkylene and cycloalkylidene radicals containing from 4 to 6 ring carbon atoms, S , S S , 0 , EMI99.1 a is independently selected from whole numbers having a valueof from 0 to 4 inclusive, and b is either zero or one. 140. The blends of claim 139 wherein m is zero. 141. The blends of claim 140 wherein X is selected from cycloalkylidene radicals containing from 10 to about 16 ring carbon atoms. 142. The blends of claim 141 wherein said dihydric phenol c is l,l bis 3,5 dimethyl 4 hydroxyphenyl cyclododecane. 143. The blends of claim 142 wherein said carbonate precursor is phosgene. 144. The blends of claim 143 wherein said dihydric phenol e is bisphenol A.

## Description
POLYCARBONATES EXHIBITING IMPROVED HEAT RESISTANCE RELATED APPLICATIONS This application is a continuation in part application of copending application Serial No. 453,105, filed December 27, 1982. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Polycarbonates are well known thermoplastic materials which due to their many advantageous properties find use as thermoplastic engineering materials in many commercial and industrial appli cations. The polycarbonates exhibit, for example, excellent properties of toughness, flexibility, impact resistance, and heat resistance. The polycarbonates are generally prepared by the co reaction of a dihydric phenol such as bisphenol A with a carbonate precursor such as phosgene. While presently available conventional polycarbonates are quite useful in a wide range of applications there nevertheless exists a need, especially in applications involving high temp erature environements, for polycarbonates exhibit ing greater heat resistance than that possessed by conventional polycarbonates. It is therefore, an object of the instant invention to provide polycarbonates which exhibit improved heat resistance. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION In accordance with the instant invention there are provided linear polycarbonate resins which exhibit improved heat resistance. These polycarbonates are generally comprised of at least one repeating structural unit represented by the general formulaEMI2.1 wherein R is independently selected from alkyl radicals R1 is independently selected from monovalent hydrocarbon radicals X represents a monocyclic cycloalkylidene radical containing from 8 to about 16 ring carbon atoms n represents the number two and m is selected from whole numbers having a value of from 0 up to the number of replaceable hydrogen atoms present on X. DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION It has been discovered that linear carbonate polymers can be obtained which exhibit improved heat resistance as compared to conventional polycarbonates. These novel polycarbonates are derived from i a carbonate precursor and ii at least one novel dihydric phenol represented by the general formulaEMI3.1 wherein R is independently selected from halogen radicals, monovalent hydrocarbon radicals, and monovalent hydrocarbonoxy radicals R1is independently selected from monovalent hydrocarbon radicals X represents a monocyclic cycloalkylidene radical containing from 8 to about 16 ring carbon atoms n is indepenedntly selected from whole numbers having a value of from 0 to 4 inclusive and m is a whole number having a value of from o up to the uwilber of hydrogen atoms present onX available for replacement. The halogen radicals represented by R are preferably selected from chlorine and bromine. The monovalent hydrocarbon radicals represented by R are selected from alkyl radicals, aryl radicals, aralkyl radicals, alkaryl radicals, and cycloalkyl radicals. The preferred alkyl radicals represented by R are those containing from 1 to about 8 carbon atoms. Some illustrative nonlimiting examples of these alkyl radicals include methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, tertiary butyl, pentyl, neopentyl, and the like.The preferred aryl radicals represented by R are those containing from 6 to 12 carbon atoms, i.e.phenyl, naphthyl and biphenyl. The preferred aralkyl and alkaryl radicals represented by R are those containing from 7 to about 14 carbon atoms. Some illustrative non limiting examples of these alkaryl and aralkyl radicals include benzyl, tolyl, ethylphenyl, and the like. The preferred cycloalkyl radicals represented by R are those containing from 4 to about 6 ring carbon atoms and include cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl. The monovalent hydrocarbonoxy radicals represented by R are preferably selected from alkoxy and aryloxy radicals The preferred alkoxy radicals are those containing from 1 to about 8 carbon atoms and include, for example, methoxy, butoxy, propoxy, isopropxy, and the like. The preferred aryloxy radical is phenoxy. Preferably R is independently selected from monovalent hydrocarbon radicals, with the alkyl radicals being the preferred hydrocarbon radicals. The monovalent hydrocarbon radicals represented by R1 are selected from alkyl radicals, aryl radicals alkaryl radicals, aralkyl radicals, and cycloalkyl radicals. The preferred alkyl radicals are those containing from 1 to about 8 carbon atoms. Some illustrative non limiting examples of these alkyl radicals include methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, tertiary butyl, pentyl, neopentyl, and the like. The preferred aryl radicals are those containing from 6 to 12 carbon atoms, i.e., phenyl, naphthyl and biphenyl. The preferred aralkyl and alkaryl radicals represented by R1 are those containing from 7 to about 14 carbon atoms. Some illustrate non limiting examples of these preferred aralkyl and alkaryl radicals include benzyl, tolyl, ethylphenyl, and the like.The preferred cycloalkyl radicals rep resented by R1 are those containing from 4 to 6 ring carbon atoms, i.e., cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl. The preferred monovalent hydrocarbon radicals represented by R are the alkyl radicals. r In Formula I m preferably has a value of from to about 4. In the dihydric phenol compounds of Formula I if more than one R substituent is present on the aromatic nuclear residue they can be the same or different. Likewise, if more than one B1 substituent is present on the cycloalkylidene radical represented by X they may be the same or different. The cycloalkylidene radicals represented by X are the mono cyclic cycloalkylidene radicals which may be represented by the general formulaEMI6.1 wherein R1 and m are as defined hereinafore, andY represents an alkylene radical containing from 7 to about 15 carbon atoms which together with theC atom form a mono cyclic cycloalkylidene radical containing from 8 to about 16 ring carbon atoms.That is to say, Y represents the CH2 r radical wherein r is a positive integer having a value of from 7 to about 15. The tensmono cyclic as dosed herein with respect to the cycloalkylidene radicals is meant to specify that the cycloalkylidene radicals contain only one ring, i.e., they are non polycyclic. Thus these non polycyclic cycloalkylidene radicals do not include those cyclic groups which are not monocyclic, e.g., bicyclic, bridged 6r fused cyclic structures such as 2 norbornylidene, bicyclo 3,3, 0 octylene, and decahydronaphthylene. Preferred polycarbonates, from the standpoint of exhibiting particularly improved heat resistance, are those containing at least one repeating structural unit represented by the general formulaEMI7.1 wherein R is independently selected from alkyl radicals R1 is independently selected from monovalent hydrocarbon radicals represents a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 8 to about 16 carbon atoms n represents the number two and m is selected from a whole number having a value of from 0 up to the number of replaceable hydrogen atoms present on X. These polycarbonates are derived from dihydric phenols of Formula I wherein each n is two and R is independently selected from alkyl radicals, i.e., those dihydric phenols having the general formulaEMI8.1 wherein R is independently selected from alkyl radicals, each n is 2, and X is a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 8 to about 16 ring carbon atoms. The preferred alkyl radicals represented by R in Formulae II and Ia are the lower alkyl radicals containing from 1 to about 4 carbon atoms. Preferred polycarbonates are those containing recurring structural units of Formula II wherein m is zero. These polycarbonates are derived from dihydric phenols of Formula Ia wherein m is zero. Preferred polycarbonates containing recurring structural units of Formula II where m is zero are those containing repeating units represented by the formulaEMI8.2 where X and R are as defined in Formula II. These linear polycarbonates are derived from dihydric phenols of the formulaEMI8.3 wherein each R is independently selected from lower alkyl radicals containing from 1 to about 4 carbon atoms, and X is a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 8 to about 16 ring carbon atoms. The more preferred linear polycarbonates containing at least one repeating structural unit ofFormula IIa are those containing at least one recurring structural unit represented by the general formulaEMI9.1 wherein each R is independently selected from lower alkyl radicals and X is a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 8 to about 16 ring carbon atoms.These more preferred polycarbonates are derived from dihydric phenols represented by the general formulaEMI9.2 wherein R and X are as defined hereinafore for FormulaIIb. preferred polycarbonates of Formulae II IIb are those wherein X is a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 10 to about 16 ring carbon atoms. These poly carbonates are derived from dihydric phenols of Formulate la Ic, respectively, wherein X is a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 10 to about 16 ring carbon atoms. The more preferred polycarbonates of Formulae Il IIb are those wherein X is a monocyclic cycloalkylidene radical containing from 11 to about 16 ring carbon atoms. These more preferred poycarbonates are derived from dihydric phenols of Formulae Ia Ic, respectively, wherein X is a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 11 to about 16 ring carbon atoms.The most preferred polycarbonates containing at least one repeating structural unit of Formulae II IIb are those wherein X is a cycloalkylidene radical containing from 12 to 16 ring carbon atoms. These most preferred polycarbonates are derived from dihydric phenols of Formulae Ia lc, respectively, wherein X is a cycloalkylidene rad ical containing from 12 to 16 ring carbon atoms. Some illustrative non limiting examples of dihydric phenolsofFormula Ic include EMI10.1 EMI11.1 EMI12.1 EMI13.1 EMI14.1 The novel dihydric phenols of Formula I, and particularly those of Formulae Ia and Ib, are prepared by the reaction of a particular ketone with a phenol in the presence of an acid catalyst, preferably in the presence of an acid catalyst and a cocatalyst such as butyl mercaptan. The particular ketone reactant is selected from ketones represented by the general formulaEMI14.2 wherein R1, m and X are as defined hereinafore. More particularly, the ketone of Formula III may be represented by the general formula EMI15.1 wherein R1 is as defined hereinafore, Y is selected from alkylene radicals containing from 7 to about 15 carbon atoms which together with theEMI15.2 radical form a cyclic structure containing from 8 to about 16 ring carbon atoms, and m represents a whole number having a value of from 0 up to the number of replaceable hydrogen atoms present on Y. The phenol reactants are selected from phenols represented by the general formulaEMI15.3 wherein R and n are as defined hereinafore. The preferred phenol reactants of Formula V, from the standpoint of providing dihydric phenols which yield polycarbonates exhibiting particularly good heat resistance, are those wherein n is two and R is independently selected from lower alkyl radicals. In order to obtain the novel dihydric phenols of Fornaila I one mole of the ketone of Formula IV is reacted with two moles of the phenol of Formula V in the presence of an acid catalyst, and preferably in the presence of an acid catalyst and a cocatalyst such as butyl worcaptan. Generally, the phenol reactant is present in excess. Rather than utilizing only one phenol reactant a mixture of two different phenol reactants may be employed. some illustrative non limiting examples of suitable acid catalysts that may be employed include hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, poly styrene sulfonic acid , sulfuric acid, benzene sulfonic acid, and the like. The phenol of Formula V is reacted with the ketone of Formula IV under conditions of temperature and pressure, and in the presence of the acid catalyst, such that coreaction between said phenol and said ketone will occur to form the dihydric phenol of Formula I. Generally, the reaction proceeds satisfactorily at about one atmosphere of pressure and at temperatures of from about room temperature 25 C to about 100 C. The amount of the acid catalyst employed is a catalytic amount. By catalytic amount is meant an amount effective to catalyze the reaction between the ketone and the phenol to produce the dihydric phenol.Generally. this amount is in the range of from about 0.1 to about 10 percent. However, in actual practice it is usually somewhat higher since the water coproduct formed in thereaction dilutes the acid catalyst and renders it somewhat less effective slowing the reaction than in its undiluted state. In the preparation of the carbonate polymers of the instant invention only one dihydric phenol of Formula I may be employed, or a mixture of two or more different dihydric phenols of Formula I may be used. The carbonate precursor that is reacted with the dihydric phenol of Formula I may be a carbonyl halide, a diaryl carbonate, or a bishaloformate. The preferred carbonate precursors are the carbonyl halides. The carbonyl halides are selected from carbonyl chloride, carbonyl bromide, and mixtures thereof. The preferred carbonyl halide is carbonyl chloride, also known as phosgene. The novel linear carbonate polymers of the instant invention contain at least one repeating strutural unit represented by the general formulaEMI17.1 wherein X, R1 and m are as defined hereinafore, andR is independently selected from lower alkyl radicals and n is two. In order for the polycarbonates of the instant invention to exhibit particularly high heat resist andes it is critical that each n be two, i.e., that the polycarbonates be tetra alkyl substituted polycarbonates. Thus, for example, if both n s are one, the dialkyl substituted polycarbonate exhibits inferior heat resistance as compared with a tetra alkyl substituted polycarbonate. Likewise, if one n is zero, and the other n is one, the mono alkyl substituted polycarbonate likewise exhibits a heat resistance which is inferior than that of a comparable tetra alkyl substituted polycarbonate. It is likewise important that R in Formula II be selected from a lower alkyl radical. These high molecular weight aromatic carbonate polymers generally have a number average molecular weight in the range of from about 5,000 to about 200,000, preferably in the range of from about 10,000 to about 100,000. Also included herein are the thermoplastic randomly branched polycarbonates. These randomly branched polycarbonates may be prepared by coreacting i a carbonate precursor, ii at least one dihydric phenol of Formula I, and iii a minor amount of a polyfunctional organic compound. The polyfunctional organic compound is generally aromatic in nature and functions as a branching agent. This polyfunctional aromatic compound contains at least three functional groups selected from hydroxyl, carboxyl, haloformyl, carboxylic anhydride, and the like. Some typical polyfunctional aromatic compounds are disclosed in B.S. Patent Mods. 3,635,895 and 4,001,184, which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.Some illustrative non limiting examples of these poly functional aromatic compounds include trimellitic anhydride, trimellitic acid, trimellityl trichloride, mellitic acid, and the like. One method of preparing the high molecular weight aromatic carbonate polymers of the instant invention involves the heterogeneous inter facial polymerization system utilizing an aqueous caustic solution, an organic water immiscible solvent such as methylene chloride, at least one dihydric phenol represented by the general Formula I, a carbonate precursor such as phosgene, a catalyst, and a molecular weight regulator. Another useful method for preparing the linear carbonate polymer of the instant invention involves the use of an organic solvent system, such as pyridine, wherein said organic solvent system may also function as an acid acceptor, at least one dihydric phenol represented by Formula I, a molecular weight regulator, a catalyst, and a carbonate precursor such as phosgene. The catalysts which are employed herein can be any of the suitable catalysts that aid the polymerization reaction of a dihydric phenol with a carbonate precursor such as phosgene to produce a polycarbonate. Suitable catalysts include, but are not limited to, tertiary amines such as triethylamine, quaternary ammonium compounds, and quaternary phosphonium compounds. The molecular weight regulators employed can be any of the known compounds which regulate the molecular weight of the carbonate polymer by a chain terminating mechanis. These compounds include, but are not limited to, phenol, tertiary butyl phenol, chromanI, and the like. The temperature at which the phosgenation reaction proceeds may vary from below O C to above 100 C. The reaction proceeds satisfactorily at temperatures from room temperature 25rOC to about 50 C, Since the reaction is exothermic, the rate of phosgene addition or the use of a low boiling solvent such as methylene chloride may be used to control the reaction temperature. The carbonate polymers of the instant invention may optionally have admixed therewith certain commonly known and used additives such as antioxidants antistatic agents fillers such as glass fibers, mica, talc, clay, and the like impact modifiers ultraviolet radiation absorbers such as the benzophenones, benzotriazoles, cyanoacrylates, and the like plasticizers hydrolytic stabilizers such as the epoxides disclosed in U.S.Patent Nos. 3,489,716, 4,138,379 and 3,839,247, all of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference color stabilizers such as the organophosphites disclosed in U.S. Patent Nos. 3,305, 520 and 4,118,730, both of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference flame retardants and the like. Some particularly useful flame retardants include the alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of sulfonic acids. These types of flame retardants are disclosed, inter alia, in U.S. Patent Nos. 3,775,367 3,836,490 3,933,374 3,948, 851 3,926,908 3,919,167 3,909,490 3,953,396 3,831,100 3,978,024 3,953,399 3,917,559 3,951, 810 and 3,940,366, all of which are incorporated herein by reference. Another embodiment of the instant invention is a flame retardant polycarbonate composition comprising, in physical admixture i at least one polycarbonate resin containing at least one recurring structural unit of FormulaII, and preferably of Formula Ila and ii a flame retardant amount of at least one flame retardant compound, preferably one selected from the alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of organic sulfonic acids. The alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of organic sulfonic acids useful in the instant compositions include, but are not limited to A alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of substituted and unsubstituted sulfonic acids of aromatic sulfides B alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of halocycloaliphatic aromatic sulfonic acids C alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of sulfonic acids of heterocyclic compounds D alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of substituted and unsubstituted sulfonic acids of aromatic ketones E alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of monomeric or pblymeric aromatic sulfonic acids F alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of monomeric or polymeric substituted aromatic sulfonic acids G alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of monomeric or polymeric aromatic amide sulfonic acids H alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of sulfonic acids of aromatic ethers I alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of monomeric or polymeric sulfonic acids of aromatic carboxylic acids J alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of monomeric or polymeric phenol esters of sulfonic acids and K alkali salts of perfluoroalkane sulfonic acids. The alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of substituted and unsubstituted sulfonic acids of aromatic sulfides are disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,909,490.These salts may be represented by the formula R S 1 2R SO3M 1 6 X 0 11 wherein X is an electron withdrawing radical N is a metal selected from the alkali and alkaline earth metals and R and R may be either an aryl radical of 1 2 aromatic rings or an aliphatic radical of 1 6 carbon atoms, and they may be the same or different, with the proviso that R and R together must contain at least one aromatic ring. Illustrative of these compounds is sodium 4,4 dichloro diphenylsulfide3 sulfonate. The alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of halocycloaliphatic aromatic sulfonic acids B are disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,917,559. These salts are substituted aromatic sulfonic acid salts wherein the substituent consists of a thermally stable, halogenated cycloaliphatic radical. These salts can best be represented by the formula R b SO3M aR z wherein R is ahalogenated cycloaliphatic radical R is an aryl radical of 1 4 aromatic rings M is a metal which may be selected from the periodic table of either an alkali metal or an alkaline earth metal b is an integer of 1 2 a is an integer of 1 6 and z is an integer of 1 2. The preferred compound represented by this formula is sodium 4 1,4,5,6,7,7 hexachlorobiucyclo 2.2.1 hept 5 en endo 2 yl benzenesulfonate. The alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of sulfonic acids of heterocyclic compounds C are disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,919,167. These salts can best be represented by the general formula X O l5R S03M 1 6 wherein X is an electron withdrawing radical M is a metal which may be selected from the periodic table of either an alkali metal or an alkaline earth metal and R L s an organic nucleus selected from the group of organic heterocyclic nuclei consisting ofEMI24.1 wherein Z is selected from the hetero atoms consisting of sulfur, oxygen and nitrogen,EMI24.2 wherein Z and Z are independently selected from the group consisting of carbon and the hetero atoms nitrogen, sulfur and oxygen, providing that at least one of Z or Z is a hetero atom,EMI24.3 iv phthalocyanine,EMI25.1 wherein Z is selected from the hetero atoms nitrogen, oxygen and sulfur. The preferred compound represented by this formula is the sodium salt of 2,5 dichlorothiophene 3 sulfonic acid. The alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of sulfonic acids of aromatic ketones D are disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,926,908. These salts may be represented by the general formula R CO 1 2R SO3M 1 8 X 0 11 wherein X is an electron withdrawing radical N is a metal which may be selected from the periodic table of either an alkali metal or an alkaline earth metal and R and R are independently selected from aryl radicals of 1 2 aromatic rings and aliphatic radicals of 1 6 carbon atoms, provided, however, that R and R must contain at least one aromatic radical. The preferred compound represented by this formula is the salt of 4,4 dichlorobenzophenone 3,3 disulfonate. The alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of monomeric or polymeric aromatic sulfonic acids E are disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,933,734. These alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of the monomeric sulfonates may be represented by the general formula A 0 1 R 0 2 B wherein A and B can, in turn, be independently selected from compounds represented by the formula SO3M yR where R is an aryl radical of 1 4 aromatic rings and y is an integer of 0 10, provided that the sum of y is at least one, and M is a metal selected from alkali metals and alkaline earth metals and R is an organic radical of 1 20 carbon atoms selected from alkyl, aralkyl, alkaryl, aralkenyl, alkylene, alkylidene, aralkylidene, alkenylidene and aralkenylidene radicals. The preferred monomeric aromatic sulfonate salt is disodium naphthalene 2 ,6 disulfonate. The alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of polymeric aromatic sulfonates may be represented by the general formula A a Rl aab B b wherein A and B are independently selected from compounds represented by the general formula S03M yR where M is a alkali or alkaline earth metal, y is an integer having a value of from 0 to 10, provided that the sum of y must eqaul at least one, and R is an aryl radical of 1 4 aromatic rings Rl is an organic radical of 1 20 carbon atoms selected from arylene, alkylene, aralkylene, alkenylene aralkenylene, alkylidene, aralkylidene, alkenylidene and aralkenylidene radicals and the sum of a and b must be at least 4 and can be as high as 400. The alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of monomeric or polymeric substituted aromatic sulfonic acids F are disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,940,366. The alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of the monomeric aromatic sulfonic acids may be represented by the general formula A 0 1 R 0 1 B wherein A and B are independently selected from compounds represented by the general formula R x SO3M yR where R is an electron withdrawing radical, M is an alkali or alkaline earth metal, R is an aryl radical of 1 4 aromatic rings, x is an integer of 0 17, and y is an integer of 0 10, with the proviso that the sum of x must equal at least one and the sum of y must equal at least one and RI is an organic radical of 1 20 carbon atoms selected from alkyl, aryl, aralkyl, alkenyl, aralkenyl, aryl arylene, alkylene, aralkylene, alkenylene, aralkenylene, alkylidene, aralkylidene, alkenylidene and aralkenylidene radicals. The preferred salt of the aromatic sulfonic acids of this formula is the sodium salt of 2,4,5 trichlororbenzenesulfonic acid. The alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of the polymeric substituted aromatic sulfonic acids may be represented by the general formula A a R1 a b B b wherein A and B are independently selected from comp ounds represented by the general formula x SO3M yR11 where R is an electron withdrawing group, M is an alkali or alkaline earth metal, R is an aryl radical of 1 4 aromatic rings, x is an integer of 0 17, and y is an integer of 0 10, with the proviso that the sum of x must equal at least one and that the sum of y must equal at least one R1 is an organic radical of 1 20 carbon atoms and is selected from arylene, alkylene, aralkylene, alkenylene, aralkenylene, alkylidene, aralkylidene, alkenylidene, and aralkenylidene radicals and the sum of a and b must be at least 4 and can be as high as 2,000, the selection of a and b can be random or equal or one can be zero. The alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of monomeric or polymeric aromatic amide sulfonic acids G are disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,951,910. The alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of monomeric amide sulfonic acids may be represented by the general formula R z NBB v NDD w OA t Hall u SO3M s wherein N N is nitrogen O is oxygen R , B, B , D, D , and A are organic radicals independently selected from aliphatic and cycloaliphatic radicals of 1 20 carbon atoms and aryl radicals of 1 4 aromatic rings, provided that this formula contains at least one aromatic ring to which the 1S03MJ substituent is attached, B, Bt, D and D may also independently be hydrogen X is a di or trivalent radical selected from the following EMI30.1 Hal is a halogen selected from fluorine, chlorine and bromine M is an alkali or alkaline earth metal z and t.are integers of 0 2, and v and w are integers having a value of from 0 4, provided that the sum of the integers z, t, v, and w is at least one y is an integer of from 1 4 s is an integer of from 1 8 and u is an integer of from 0 10.The preferred salt of these monomeric amide sulfonic acids is the sodium salt of 2,4,5 trichlorobenzene sulfonanilide 41sulfonate. The alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of the polymeric aromatic amide sulfonic acids may be represented by the general formula R z NBB v NDD w OA t X y Hal u SO3M s a R z NBB v NDD w OA t X y Hal u SO3M s b wherein N, O, B, B , D, D , X , M, Hal, t, u, v, w, y and z have the same meaning as specified hereinafore for the aromatic amide sulfonic acids a and b are integers from 2 to 300 and s is an integer from 0 8, provided that the sum of s is at least one. The alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of sulfonic acids of aromatic ethers H are disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,953,396. These salts may be the salts of either monomeric or polymeric aromatic ether sulfonic acids. The alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of monomeric aromatic ether sulfonic acids may be represented by the general formula R O 1 ,R SORM 1 6 X 0 ll wherein X is an electron withdrawing radical M is an alkali or alkaline earth metal R1 and R are independently selected from aryl radicals of from 1 2 aromatic rings and aliphatic radicals containing from 1 6 carbon atoms, with the proviso that R and R together must contain at least one aromatic ring. The preferred salt of these monomeric aromatic ether sulfonic acids is disodium tetrachlorodiphenyletherdisulfonate. The alkali and alkaline earth metals salts of polymeric ether sulfonic acids may be represented by the general formula A x B y ArO p Hal s SO3M tH wherein Ar is a phenylene radical O is oxygen A is an alkyl radical containing from 1 to 4 carbon atoms B is a phenyl radical Hal is a halogen selected from fluorine, chlorine and bromine M is an alkali or alkaline earth metal p is an integer of from 2 to 300 x, y and s are independently selected from integers having a value of from 0 to 600 and t is an integer of from 1 to 600.The preferred salt of the polymeric aromatic ether sulfonic acids is polysodium poly 2,6 dimethylphenyleneoxide polysulfonate. The alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of sulfonic acids of monomeric and polymeric aromatic carboxylic acids and esters I are disclosed in U.S.Patent 3,953,399. The alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of the unsubstituted and substituted sulfonic acids of monomeric aromatic carboxylic acids and esters may be represented by the general formula X pR v SO3M a COOY b R q wherein X is an electron withdrawing radical M is an alkali or alkaline earth metal R is an aryl radical of 1 4 aromatic rings R is an organic radical containing 1 to 4 carbon atoms selected from alkyl, alkenyl, alkylene, alkenylene, alkylidene, and alkenylidene radicals Y is an alkali or alkaline earth metal or an organic radical containing from 1 to 20 carbon atoms selected fro alkyl, cycloalkyl. aralkyl, alkenyl, cvcicalkenyl, aralkenyl, and aryl radicals a and b are independently selected from integers having a value of from 1 to 6 p and q are independently selected from integers having a value of from 0 to 10 and v is an integer having a value of from 1 10.The preferred monomeric salt of this type is sodium dimethyl 2,4,6 tricnloro 5 sulfoisophthalate. The polymeric form of the sulfonic acid salts of unsubstituted and substituted aromatic carboxylic acids and esters may be represented by the general formula Hal p R COO 2 4R a SO3M wherein Hal is a halogen radical selected from fluorine, chlorine and bromine R and R are either aromatic nuclei of 1 4 aromatic rings or aliphatic and cycloaliphatic radicals of from 2 20 carbon atoms, provided that either R orR must be aromatic n is an alkali or alkaline earth metal a is an integer having a value of from 2 to 300 x is an integer having a value of from 1 to 600 and p is an integer having a value of from O to 600.The preferred polymeric salts of this type are polysodium polyethyleneterephthalate polysulfonate, poly sodium polybutylene 2,5 dibromoterephthalate polysulfonate and polysodium polybutyleneterephthalate polysulfonate. The alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of monomeric and polymeric phenol esters of sulfonic acids J are disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,978,024.The alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of monomeric phenol ester sulfonic acids may be represented by the general formula R z OqA u X y OrB v a wherein A and B are independently selected from compounds represented by the general formula R SOM R p where R is an aromatic radical of 1 4 aromatic nuclei, n is an alkali or alkaline earth metal, RITI is an electron withdrawing group, b is an integer having a value of from 0 to 4, and p is an integer having a value of from 0 to 10, provided that the sum of a and p must be at least one R is an organic radical containing from 1 to 20 carbon atoms and is selected from alkyl, aralkyl, alkenyl, aralkenyl, aryl, arylene, alkylene, aralkylene, alkylidene, aralkylidene, alkenylidene, aralkenylidene, h, and B radicals A is selected from CO, CS, SO, PO, PR, SO2 and Si radicals z is an integer having a calue of from 0 to 3 y is an integer having a value of from 1 to 2 a is an integer having a value of from 1 to 4 q and r are independently selected from integers having a value of from 1 to 4 v is an integer having a value of from 0 to 4 and O is oxygen.The preferred salt of monomeric phenol ester sulfonic acid is the sodium salt of the sulfonic acid of dichlorophenyl 2,4,5 trichlorobenzenesulfonate. The alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of polymeric phenol ester sulfonic acids may be represented by the general formula R z A X y B 1 3 a R z A X y B 1 3 b wherein A and B are independently selected from compounds represented by the general formula O qR SO3M bR p where O, R , M, R , b, p, q, Rt, X , z and y have the seine meanings as set forth hereinafore a is an integer of from 0 2,000, and b is an integer of from 0 2,000, provided that the sum of a and b is at least 4 and can be as high as 2,000. Particularly useful flame retardant additives may be represented by the following general formulae A1SO3 M and or A1SO3 2 M wherein A1 is an aromatic monomeric or polymeric radical, M is an alkali metal ion and M is an alkaline earth metal ion. The aromatic radical may be substituted or unsubstituted and should contain at least 6 carbon atoms. The preferred substituents are electron withdrawing radicals such as halo trihalomethyl or cyano, preferably halo selected from chlorine, bromine or fluorine.Preferably A1 is selected from EMI36.1 EMI37.1 wherein Z is selected from a direct bond, 0, CO, S, SO2 or Or02, and B and B are independently chlorine, bromine, fluorine, trihalomethyl, cyano, nitro, or aliphatic groups e.g., methyl, ethyl, propyl, etc. . Other particularly useful flame retardant salts include those represented by the general formulaeEMI37.2 wherein M, B , B and Z are as previously defined, and a and a are independently 0 4, with the proviso that at least one of a or a is one. The instant flame retardant salts are present in the instant polycarbonate compositions in a flame retardant amount. By flame retardant amount is meant am amount effect ive to render said compositions flame retardant. Generally this amount is in the range of from about 0.01 to about 10 parts of the salt per hundred parts of the rsin, preferably from about 0.1 to about 5 parts of the salt per hundred parts of the resin. Conventional well known flame retardants other than the aforementioned salts may also be employed in the practice of this embodiment. These conventional flame retardant additives generally contain a halogen, preferably chlorine and or bromine. That is to say, they are a halogen source. They may be inorganic or organic. Typical of the inorganic halogen sources areNaCl, KBr, etc. The organic halogen sources are preferably aromatic and may be monomers or polymers. Typical aromatic monomers include the halodiphenyl ethers such as tetrabromodiphenyl ether, etc. Typical aromatic polymers include those derived from halogenated bisphenols such as, for example, a polycarbonate derived from tetrabrnmo bipshenol A.These flame retardant additives are present in the instant compositions in a flame retardant amount. By flame retardant amount is meant an amount effective to render said compositions flame retardant. Generally this amount is such as to provide a composition having a halogen content of from about O.Dl to about 10 weight percent, based on the total ccxiiposition, preferably from about 0.1 to about 5 weight percent. Still another embodiment is an impact modified lycarbonate composition comprised of, in admixture i at least one polycarbonate containing at least one recurring structural unit of Formula II, and preferably of Formula IIa and ii an impact modifier composition comprising an impact modifier which improves the impact properties of said polycarbonate, said impact modifier composition present in quantities which are effective to improve the impact properties of said polycarbonate composition. Generally, any material known to impact modify aromatic polycarbonates should be useful in upgrading the impact properties of the polycarbonates of this invention. Examples of these impact modifiers include but are not limited to the following general categories polyacrylates polyolefins rubbery dienic polymers and styrenic polymers. The polyacrylates which may be employed as impact modifiers are rubbery homopolymers or copolymers. In general the polyalkyl acrylates described in Brinkman et al., United States Patent 3,591,659, incorporated herein by reference, can be used, especially those containing units derived from alkyl acrylates, particularly n butyl acrylate. Acrylate containing copolymers wherein the other monomer is, for example, derived from a methacrylate are also readily employable, see for example Japanese Patent Application Announcement 1968 18611, incorporated herein by reference.Preferably the acrylate resin will be in the form of a rubber elastic.graft copolymer having a glass trans ilion temperature below about 20 C, preferably below about 40 C. Schlichting, United States Patent 4,022,748, incorporated herein by reference. More preferably, the acrylate resin will comprise a multiple stage polymer having a rubbery first stage core and a thermoplastic hard final stage shell , see Farnham United States Patent 4,096,202, incorporated herein by reference. The most preferred acrylate resin is X multiphase composite interpolymer comprised of a C1 C5 acrylate and a C15 methacrylate. These interpolymers consist of about 25 to 95 weight percent of a first elastomeric phase polymerized from a monomer system comprising about 75 to 99.8 weight percent of a C15 alkyl acrylate, 0.1 to 5 percent by weight cross linking monomer, 0.1 to 5 percent by weight of graftlinking monomer, and about 75 to 5 weight percent of a final rigid thermoplastic phase polymerized in the presence of said elastomeric phase. The crosslinking monomer is a polyethylenically unsaturated monomer having a plurality of addition polymerizable reactive groups all of which polymerize at substantially the same rate of reaction. Suitable crosslinking monomers include polyacrylic and polymethacrylic esters of polyols such as butylene diacrylate and dimethacrylate, trimethylol propane trimethacrylate, and the like di and trivinyl benzene, vinyl acrylate and methacrylate, and the like. The preferred crosslinking monomer is butylene diacrylate. The graftlinking monomer is a polyethylenically unsaturated monomer having a plurality of addition polymerizable reactive groups, at least one of which polymerizes at substantially different rates of polymerization from at least one other of said reactive groups. The function of the graftlinking monomer is to provide a residual level of unsaturation in the elastomeric phase, particularly in the latter stages of polymerization and, consequently, at or near the surface of the elastomer particles. When the rigid thermoplastic phase is subsequently polymerized at the surface of the elastomer, the residual unsaturated addition polymerizable reactive group contributed by the graftlinking monomer participates in the subsequent reaction so that at least a portion of the rigid phase is chemically attached to the surface of the elastomer. Among the effective graftlinking monomers are alkyl groupcontaining monomers of alkyl esters of ethylenically unsaturated acids such as allyl acrylate, allyl methacrylate, diallyl maleate, diallyl fumarate, and allyl acid itaconate. Somewhat less preferred are the diallyl esters of polycarboxylic acids which do not contain polymerizable unsaturation. The preferred graft linking monomers are allyl methacrylate and dially maleate. A most.preferred interpolymer has only two stages, the first stage comprising about 60 to 95 percent by weight of the interpolymer and being polymerized from a monomer system comprising 95 to 99.8 percent by weight butyl acrylate, 0.1 to 2.5 percent by weight butylene diacrylate as crosslinking agent, 0.1 to 2.5 percent by weight allyl methacrylate or diallyl maleate as a graftlinking agent, with a final stage polymerized from about 60 to 100 percent by weight methyl methacryiate. The multiphase composite interpolymer Acryloid EM 330 available from Rohm and Haas is preferred. This interpolymer is comprised of small quantities of cross linking and graft monomers, about 80 weight percent n butyl acrylate and about 20 weight percent methyl methacrylate. The polyolefins which can be employed as impact modifiers are homopolymers or copolymers.Examples of the homopolymers include polyethylene, polypropylene, polybutene l, polyhexene and the like.The polymers include the standard high density polymers, low density polymers as well as the new linear low density polyolefins such as the linear low density polyethylene made with butene l or octene l.Other examples of copolymers containing at least one olefin mononer can be employed. For example, copolymers of ethylene and propylene can be employed as the impact modifier as well as a copolymer of an olefin and an acrylate such as ethylene ethyl acrylate, a copolymer available from Union Carbide as DPD 6169.Other higher alevin monomers can be employed as tapolymers with alkyl acrylates, for example propylene and n butyl acrylate and the like. These polyolefin polymers can also be reacted with rubbery dienes so as to form terpolymers of the EPDM family such as ethylene propylene diene terpolymers, for exampleEpsyn 704 available from Copolymer Rubber. Various rubbery polymers can also be employed as impact modifiers. Examples of such rubbery polymers include polybutadiene, polyisoprene, styrene butadiene and various other copolymers having a rubbery dienic comonomer. Styrene containing polymers can also be employed as impact modifiers. Examples of such polymers include acrylonitrile butadiene styrene, styrene acrylonitrile, acrylonitrile butadiene alpha methylstyrene, methacrylate butadiene styrene and other high impact styrene containing polymers. Other known impact modifiers include various elastomeric materials such as organic silicone rubbers, organic silicone polysiloxane polymers, elastomeric fluorohydrocarbons, elastomeric polyesters, polysiloxane polycarbonate copolymers, etc. Generally any minimum quantity of impact modifier which positively upgrades the impact strength of the polycarbonates of the instant invention can be employed.Greater than this minimum quantity may be employed as long as the properties desired for a particular application of the polycarbonate are substantially maintained. Generally, a minimum of about two weight percent is sufficient to observe an increase 1t the impact strength. A minimum of about four weight percent of the impact modifier, based on the amount of impact modifier and polycarbonate resin present, is preferred. A level of about fifteen weight percent should generally not be exceeded, preferably about ten weight percent. Weight percent is measured as the amount of impact modifier in the total of impact modifier plus the aromatic polycarbonate resin of this invention. The compositions of this embodiment may be compounded in the usual manner, for example blending the resin with the impact modifier in a dry form, for example powder or granules and the like and then extruding the composition. Another embodiment of the instant invention is a carbonate polymer obtained by reacting i a carbonate precursor, ii at least one dihydric phenol ofFormula Ia, and preferably Ib, and iii at least one dihydric phenol represented by the general formulaEMI44.1 wherein R2is independently selected from halogen radicals, monovalent hydrocarbon radicals, and monovalent hydrocarbonoxy radicals a is independently selected from whole numbers living a value of from 0 to 4 inclusive b is either zero or one and A is selected from alkylene radicals, alkyl idene radicals, cycloalkylene and cycloalkylidene radicals containing from 4 to 6 ring carbon atoms, S , S S , 0 , EMI45.1 The preferred halogen radicals represented by R2 are chlorine and bromine. The monovalent hydrocarbon radicals represented by R2 are the alkyl radicals, the aryl radicals, the aralkyl radicals, the alkaryl radicals, and the cycloalkyl radicals. The preferred alkyl radicals represented by R2 are those containing from 1 to about 8 carbon atoms. Some illustrative non limiting examples of these alkyl radicals include methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, tertiary butyl, pentyl, neopentyl, and the like. The preferred aryl radicals represented by R are those containing from 6 to 12 carbon atoms, i.e., phenyl, naphthyl, and biphenyl. The preferred aralkyl radicals and alkyalryl radicals represented by R2 are those containing from 7 to about 14 carbon atoms. Some illustrative non limiting examples of these aralkyl and alkaryl radicals include benzyl, tolyl, ethylphenyl, and the like.The preferred cycloalkyl radicals represented by R2 are those containing from 4 to about 6 ring carbon atoms and include cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, methylcyclohexyl, and the like. The monovalent hydrocarbonoxy radicals rep resented by R2 are prefereavly selected from alkoxy radicals and aryloxy radicals. The preferred alkoxy R2 radicals represented by R are those containing from 1 to about 8 carbon atoms. Some illustrative non limiting examples of these alkoxy radicals include methoxy, butoxy, isopropxy, propoxy, and the like The preferred aryloxy radical is phenoxy. Preferably R2 is independently selected from monovalent hydrocarbon radicals, with the alkyl radicals being the preferred monovalent hydrocarbon radicals. The preferred alkylene radicals represented by A are those containing from 2 to about 6 carbon atoms. Some illustrative non limiting examples of these alkylene radicals include ethylene, propylene, butylene, and the like. The preferred alkylidene radicals represented by A are those containing from 1 to about 6 carbon atoms. Some illustrative nonlimiting examples of these alkylidene radicals include ethylidene, l,l propylidene, 2,2 propylidene, and the like. The preferred dihydric phenols of Formula VI are those wherein b is one and A is selected from alkylene or alkylidene radicals. In the dihydric phenol of Formula VI when more than one R2 substituent is present on the aromatic nuclear residue they may be the same or different. The more preferred dihydric phenols of Formula t are the 4,,4 bisphenols. The dihydric phenols of Formula VI are well known in the art and are generally commercially available or may be readily prepared by known methods. These phenols are generally used in preparing conventional prior art polycarbonate resins. Some non limiting illustrative examples of the dihydric phenols of Formula VI include 2, 2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane bisphenol A 1, 1 bis 3 methyl 4 hydroxyphenyl ethane 2,2 bis 3,5 dimeth71 4 hydroxyphenyl propane 2,2 bis 3,5 dibromo 4 hydroxyphenyl propane bis 4 hydroxyphenyl sulfide 3, 3 bis 3 methyl 4 hydroxyphenyl pentane 3,3 diethyl 4, 4 dihydroxydiphenyl and the like. The amount of the dihydric phenol of FormulaIa utilized in this embodiment is an amount effective to improve the heat resistance, e.g., glass transition temperature, of the copolymers. Generally, this amount is in the range of from about 5 to about 90 weight percent, and preferably from about 10 to about 80 weight percent, based on the total amount of the dihydric phenols of Formulae Ia and VI employed. The preferred dihydric phenol of Formula VI is 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane. The carbonate copolymers obtained by reacting i a carbonate precursor, ii at least one dihydric phenol of Formula Ia, and iii at least one dihydric phenol of Formula VI will contain at least the following repeating structural units II and EMI48.1 In the practice of this embodiment of the instant invention only one dihydric phenol of Formula VI may be employed or a mixture of two or more different dihydric phenols of Formula VI may be utilized. The procedures for preparing the copolymers of this embodiment are generally similar to those used for producing the polycarbonates of the instant invention as described hereinafore. The instant carbonate copolymers may optionally have admixed therewith the various additives described hereinafore particularly a flame retardant amount of at least one flame retardant additive selected from the alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of sulfonic acids, and an impact modifying amount of at least one impactmodifierof the type described hereinafore. Yet another embodiment of the instant invention is a polycarbonate resin blend comprised of i at least one polycarbonate resin derived from a at least one dihydric phenol of Formula Ia, and preferably of Formula Ib, and b a carbonate precursor here rafter referred to as resin A and ii at least oge conventional polycarbonate resin derived from a at least one dihydric phenol of Formula VI, and b a carbonate precursor hereinafter referred to as resin B . These blends contain an amount of resin A effective to improve the heat resistance of said blends.Generally, this amount is in the range of from about 5 to about 90 weight percent, preferably from about 10 to about 80 weight percent of resin A, based on the total amount of resins A and B present in the blends. The blends of the instant invention may optionally contain admixed therewith the aforedescribed additives, particularly a flame retardant amount of at least one flame retardant additive selected from the alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of sulfonic acids, and an impact modifying amount of at least one impact modifier of the type described hereinafore. The instant blends may generally be prepared by first preforming the resins A and B and thereafter physically mixing or blending these resins together. Still another embodiment of the instant invention are copolyester carbonates derived from i a carbonate precursor, ii at least one dihydric phenol of Formula Ia, and preferably of Formula Ib, and iii at least one difunctional carboxylic acid or an ester forming reactive derivative thereof. Briefly stated, the copolyester carbonates comprise recurring carbonate groups, carboxylate groups, and aromatic carbocyclic groups in the linear polymer chain, in which at least some of the carboxylate groups and at least some of the carbonate groups are bonded directly to the ring carbon atoms of the aromatic carbocyclic groups. These copolyester c2rbonates contain ester bonds and carbonate bonds in the polymer chain, wherein the amount of ester bonds is in the rangeof from about 25 to about 90 mole . prefer,ably from about 35 to about 80 mole . For example, 5 moles of bisphenol A reacting completely with 4 moles of isophthaloyl chloride and 1 mole of phosgene would give a copolyester carbonate of 80 mole ester bonds. Conventional copolyester carbonates in general, and methods for their preparation, are disclosed inU.S. Patent 3,169,121, which is hereby incorporated by reference. In general, any difunctional carboxylic acid conventionally used in the preparation of linear polyesters may be utilized in the preparation of the linear copolyester carbonate resins of the present invention.The carboxylic acids which may be used include the aliphatic carboxylic acids, aliphatic aromatic carboxylic acids, and aromatic carboxylic acids. These acids are disclosed in the aforementioned U.S. Patent 3,169,121. The difunctional carboxylic acids which may be utilized in the preparation of the copolyester carbonate resins of the instant invention generally conform to the general formula vin. R3 R4 COOH wherein R4 is an alkylene, alkylidene, aralkylene, aralkylidene or cycloaliphatic group containing ethylenic unsaturation an aromatic group such as phenylene, biphenylene, substituted phenylene, and the like two or more aromatic groups connected through non aromatic linkages such as alkylene or alkylidene groups and the like. R3 is either a carboxyl group or a hydroxyl group. The letter 3 q represents one where R is a hydroxyl group and either zero or one where R3 is a carboxyl group. rreferred difunctional carboxylic acids are the aromatics difunctional carboxylic acids, i.e., those acids of Formula VIII where q is one, R3 is a carboxyl or a hydroxyl group, and R4 is an aromatic group such as phenylene, naphthylene, biphenylene, substituted phenylene, and the like. The preferred aromatic difunctional carboxylic acids are those represented by the general formulaEMI51.1 wherein R3 is as defined above R5 is independently selected from halogen radicals, monovalent hydrocarbon radicals, and monovalent hydrocarbonoxy radicals and p represents a whole number having a value of from 0 t 4 inclusive. The preferred halogen radicals represented by R5 are chlorine and bromine. The monovalent hydrocarbon radicals represented by R5 are selected from alkyl radicals, aryl radicals, alkaryl radicals, aralkyl radicals, and cycloalkyl radicals. The preferred alkyl radicals, aryl radicals, alkaryl radicals, aralkyl radicals and cycloalkyl radicals are the same as those defined for R hereinafore.The monovalent hydrocarbonoxy radicals represented by R5 are selected from alkoxy radicals and aryloxy radicals. The preferred alkoxy radicals and aryloxy radicals represented by R5 are the same as those defined by R hereinafore. Preferred radicals represented by R5 are the monovalent hydrocarbon radicals, with the alkyl radicals being the preferred monovalent hydrocarbon radicals. Mixtures of two or more different difunctional acids may be employed as well as single individual difunctional carboxylic acids. Therefore, where the term difunctional carboxylic acid is used herein it is meant to include mixtures of two or more different difunctional carboxylic acids as well as single difunctional carboxylic acids. Particularly useful aromatic difunctional carboxylic acids are isophthalic acid, terephthalic avid, and mixtures thereof. A particularly useful mixture of isophthalic acid and terephthalic acid is one wherein the weight ratio of isophthalic acid to terephthalic acid is in the range of from 1 10 to 9.8 0.2. Rather than utilizing the difunctional carboxylic acids per se it is preferred to employ their ester forming reactive derivatives such as, for example, the acid halides. Particularly useful acid halides are the acid chlorides. Thus, for example instead of using isophthalic acid, terephthalic acid, or mixtures thereof it is preferred to utilize isophthaloyl dichloride, terephthaloyl dichloride, or mixtures thereof. One of the methods for preparing the copolyester carbonates of the instant invention involves the heterogeneous interfacial polymerization system utilizing an aqueous caustic solution, an organic water immiscible solvent, at least one dihydric phenol represented by Formula Ia, at least one difunctional carboxylic acid or an ester forming reactive derivative thereof, a catalyst, a mol ecular weight regulator, and a carbonate precursor.A preferred heterogeneous interfacial polymerization system is one which utilizes phosgene as the carbonate precursor and methylene chloride or chlorobenzene as the organic solvent. The reaction conditions, catalysts, and chain terminators or molecular weight regulators utilized are generally the same as those described hereinafore for the preparation of the polycarbonates of the instant invention. The linear copolyester carbonate resins of the instant invention may also optionally contain admixed therewith the various additives described supra, particularly a flame retardant amount of at least one flame retardant additive selected from the alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of sulfonic acids, and an impact modifying amount of at least one impact modifier described hereinafore. Another embodiment of the instant invention is a copolyester carbonate resin derived from i a carbonate precursor, ii at least one difunctional carboxylic acid or a reactive derivative thereof, iii at least one dihydric phenol of Formula Ia, and iv at least one dihydric phenol of Formula VI.In this linear copolyester carbonate resin the amount of the dihydric phenol of Formula Ia employed is an amount effective to improve the heat resistance of the resin. Generally, this amount is in the range of from about 5 to about 90 weight percent, preferably from about 10 to about 80 weight percnt, based on the amount of dihydric phenols of Formulae Ia andVI present. These resins may also optionally have admixed therewith the aforedescribed additives, particularly a flame retardant amount of at least one flame retardant additive selected from the alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of sulfonic acids, and an impact modifying amount of at least one impact modifier of the type described hereinafore. Still another embodiment of the instant invention is a copolyester carbonate resin blend comprised of i at least one linear copolyester carbonate resin of the instant invention, i.e., one derived from a a carbonate precursor, b at least one difunctional carboxylic acid or a reactive derivative thereof, and c at least one dihydric phenol of Formula Ia hereinafter referred to as copolyester carbonate resinC and ii at least one conventional copolyestercarbonate resin which is derived from a carbonate precursor, b at least one difunctional carboxylic acid or a reactive derivative thereof, and c at least one dihydric phenol of Formula VI hereinafter referred te as copolyester carbonate resin D . The blends of this embodiment contain an amount of resin C effective to improve the heat resistance of the blends Generally this amount is in the range of from about 5 to about 90 weight percent, preferably from about 10 to about 80 wieght percent, based on the amount of copolyester carbonate resins C and D present in the blends. These blends may also optionally contain the various aforedescribed additives, particularly a flame retardant amount of at least one flame retardant additive selected from the alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of sulfonic acids, and an impact modifying amount of at least one impact modifier of the type described hereinafore. Also included with the scope of the instant linear copolyester carbonates are the randomly branched linear copolyester carbonates. These branched copoly ester carbonates may be prepared by the use of the branching agent described hereinafore for the prep aration of the randomly branched polycarbonates. The high molecular weight linear aromatic copolyester carb4nates of the instant invention generally have a nuniber average molecular weight in the range of from about 5,000 to about 200,000, preferably in the range of from about 10,000 to about lOO, OOO. The term linear polycarbonate resins, as used with respect to the polycarbonates of the instant invention, includes both the branched polycarbonates and the non branched polycarbonates of the instant invention. Likewise, the term linear copolyestercarbonates, as used with respect to the copolyester carbonates of the instant invention, includes both the branched copolyester carbonates and the non branched.copolyester carbonates of the instant invention. Also included within the scope of the instant invention are blends of the copolyester carbonates of the instant invention copolyester carbonate resins C with the polycarbonates of the instant invention polycarbonate resins A blends of copolyester carbonate resins of the instant invention copolyester carbonate resins C with conventional polycarbonates polycarbonate resins B and blends of the polycarbonates of the instant invention polycarbonate resins A with conventional copolyester carbonates copolyester carbonate resins D . Theseb1ends may generally contain from about 1 to about 99 weight percent of the copolyestercarbonate resin and from about 99 to about 1 weight percent of the polycarbonate resin, preferably from about 5 to about 95 weight percent of the copolyester carbonate resin and from about 95 to about 5 weight percent of the polycarbonate resin. These blends may also optionally contain the additives described hereinafore, particularly a flame retardant amount of a flame retardant additive, and atn impact modifying amount of an impact modifier. DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT In order to more fullv and clearly illustrate the present invention the following examples are set forth. It is intended that the examples be considered as illustrative rather than limiting the invention as disclosed and claimed herein. In the examples all parts and percents are on a weight basis unless otherwise indicated. The following examples illustrate polycarbonates falling outside the scope of the instant invention and are presented for comparative purposes only. EXAMPLE 1 This example illustrates the preparation of a bisphenol A polycarbonate. Into a mixture of 2283 grams of pure 4,4 isopropylidenebisphenol bisphenol A , 5700 grams water, 9275 grams methylene chloride, 32.0 grams phenol, and 10 grams of triethylamine, are introduced, at ambient temperature, 1180 grams of phosgene over a period of 97 minutes while maintaining the pH of the tio phase system at about 11, i.e., pH 10 12.5, by simultaheously adding a 25 aqueous sodium hydroxide solution. At the end of the addition period, the pH of the aqueous phase is 11.7 and the bisphenol A content of this phase is less than 1 part per million ppm as determined by ultraviolet analysis. The methylene chloride phase is separated from the aqueous phase, washed with an excess of dilute O.OlN aqueous HC1 and then washed three times with deionized water. The polymer is precipitated by steam and dried at 95 C. The resultant, pure bisphenol A polycarbonate has an intrinsic viscosity IV in methylene chloride at 25tC of 0.572 dlXgm and a second order glass transition temperature of 149 C. The second order glass transition temperature is determined by using aPerkins ElmerDSC 2B instrument which measures the second order glass transition temperature Tg by differential scanning calorimetry. The Tg is an indication of the heat resistance of the polymer. Generally, the higher the Tg the more heat resistant the polymer. EXAMPLE 2 This example illustrates the preparation of a dimethyl substituted cyclododecylidene polycarbonate falling outside the scope of the instant invention. Into a slurry of 9.5 grams 0.025 mole of 1,1 bis 3 methyl 4 hydroxyphenyl cyclododecane, 0.1 milliliter of triethylamine, 0.02 gram 1 mole 5 of phenol, 200 milliliters of methylene chloride, and 150 milliliters of water there are added sufficient 25 aqueous sodium hydroxide solution to bring the pH to 11.0. Phosgene is then introduced into this reaction mixture at the rate of 0.5 gram per minute for a period of 10 minutes while maintaining the pH of the reaction mixture at 10.5 11.4 by the addition of the aqueous caustic solution. After addition of the phosgene ceases the methylene chloride phase is separated from the aqueous phase, washed with an excess of dilute 0.01N aqueous HC1, and is then washed three times with deionized water.The polymer is then precipitated with methanol and dried at 950C.The Tg of this polymer is determined to be 2020C. EXAMPLE 3 This example illustrates the preparation of a cyclohexylidene polycarbonate falling outside the scope of the instant invention. To a reactor vessel is added an aqueous caustic solution of 26.8 grams 0.1 mole of 4,4 cyclohexylidenebisphenol, 8 grams of sodium hydroxide, and 710 milliliters of water, followed by the addition of 0.3 milliliter of triethylamine and 400 milliliters of methylene chloride. Phosgene is introduced into this well stirred mixture at a rate of 0.5 gram per minute for a period of 10 minutes while maintaining the pH at 12.4 by the use of a 25 aqueous sodium hydroxide solution. The pH is then lowered to 11 and additional phosgene is introduced into the reaction mixture at a rate of O.S gram per minute for 32 minutes.After the addition of tha phsogene ceases the methylene chloride phase ifs separated from the aqueous phase, washed with dilute O.OlN HC1, and is then washed three times with deionized water The polymer is precipitated with methanol and dried at 95 C. TheTg of this polymer is determined to be 171 C. EXAMPLE 4 This example illustrates the preparation of a dialkylated cyclohexylidene polycarbonate falling outside the scope of the instant invention. To a reactor vessel are introduced 2965 grams 10 moles of l,l bis 3 methyl 4 hydroxyphenyl cyclohexane, 7 liters of methylene chloride, 5.5 liters of water, 28 milliliters of triethylamine, and 32.9 grams of phenol. Sufficient 25 aqueous sodium hydroxide solution is added to this reaction mixture to maintain a pH of about 11. Phosgene is then introduced into the reaction mixture at a rate of 36 grams per minute for a period of 32 minutes while maintaining the pH at about 11 by the use of the aqueous sodium hydroxide solution. After addition of the phosgene ceases the methylene chloride phase is separated from the aqueous phase, washed with dilute O.OlN HC1, and washed three times with deionized water. The polymer is then precipitated by steam and dried at 95 C. The Tg of this polymer is determined to be 132 C. EXAMPLE 5 This example illustrates the preparation of a dialkyl substituted cyclopentadecylidenebisphenl polyearbonate falling outside the scope of the instant invention. Into a reaction mixture containing 5 grams 0.0118 mole of l,l bis 3 methy 4 hydroxyphenyl cyclopentadecane m.p. 213 2140C , 0.033 milliliter of triethylamine, 400 milliliters of methylene chloride, and 300 milliliters of water there is added sufficient 25 aqueous sodium hydroxide solution to bring the pH of the reaction mixture to about 11. Phosgene is then introduced into this well stirred reaction mixture at a rate of 0.5 gram per minute for a period of 6.5 minutes while maintaining the pH at about 11 by the use of the aqueous caustic solution. After addition of the phosgene ceases the reaction mixture is stirred for 5 minutes, the methylene chloride phase is separated from the aqueous phase, and is washed once with dilute 0.OlN HCl and three times with deionized water.The polymer is precipitated with methanol and dried at 95eC. The Tg of this polymer is determined to be 159 C. EXAMPLE 6 This examples illustrates the preparation of 4,4 cyclooctyllidenebisphenol polycarbonate falling outside the scope of the instant invention. Into a solution containing 4 grams 0.0135 mole of l,l bis 4 hydroxyphenyl cyclooctane m.p. 197 I99eC and 100 milliliters of pyridine, there is introduced phosgene at a rate of 0.2 gram per minute for a period of 20 minutes. During the phosgene addition period the originally colorless solution turns a muddy green color. After the phosgene addition ceases the reaction mixture is stirred for 10 minutes. The reaction mixture is then added to an excess of methanol and stirred in a Warring blender. The precipitated polymer is filtered, and the filter cake is then slurried with water, filtered and washed. The filter cake is dried in a vacuum oven at 50 C. The resultant polycarbonate is found to have an intrinsic viscosity in methylene chloride at 250C of 0.427 dl gm.This polymer has a second order glass transition temperature, Tg, of 145 C. The following examples illustrate the preparation of the novel tetraalkyl substituted cycloalkylidene bisphenols of the instant invention. EXAMPLE 7 This example illustrates the preparation of l,l bis 3,5 dimethyl 4 hydroxyphenyl cyclo dodecane. Into a solution of 182.3 grams 1.0 mole of cyclododecanone, 558 grams 4.6 moles of 2,6 xylenol, 210 milliliters of methylene chloride, and 9 milliliters of n butyl mercaptan there is introduced anhydrous hydrogen chloride while maintaining the temperature of the reaction mixture at about 20 C. Stirring is carried on during the hydrogen chloride addition. Solids begin to separate out from the reaction mixture and when the reaction mixture becomes too thick to stir an additional 100 milliliters of methylene chloride are added.The reaction is followed by gas chromatographic analysis of samples removed from the reaction mixture. When gas chromatographic analysis of the samples taken from the reaction mixture indicates the absence of the macrocylic ketone the reaction mixture is filtered by suction and the solids are washed with methylene chloride. The solids are then slurried up with fresh methylene chloride, filtered and rinsed again with more solvent. Analysis by gas chromatography of the dried solids, which melted at 239 240.50C, showed that they had a retention time of 27.85 minutes relative to p cumylphenol which emerged at 13.91 minutes. EXAMPLE 8 This example illustrates the preparation of 1, l bis 3, 5 dimethy1 4 hydroxyphenyl cyclooctane . Into a warm reaction mixture containing 6.3 grams O 5 mole cyclooctanone, 122.1 grams 1.0 male of 2,6 xylenol and 0.5 milliliter of n butyl mercaptan there is introduced, with stirring, anhydrous hydrogen chloride gas while maintaining the temperature of the reaction mixture between 5072 C. Solids begin to separate out from the reaction mixture and when the reaction mixture becomes too thick to stir methylene chloride is added. The reaction is followed by gas chromatographic analysis of samples removed from the reaction mixture.When gas chromatographic analysis of the samples taken from the reaction mixture indicates the absence of the macrocyclic ketone the reaction mixture is filtered by suction and the solids are washed with methylene chloride. The solids are then recrystallized with methanol.Analysis by gas chromatography of the solids, which melt at 253 254.20C, show that they have a retention time of 24.35 minutes relative to p cumyl phenol which emerges at 13.56 minutes. EXAMP1E 9 This example illustrates the preparation of 1,1 bis 3,5 dimethyl 4 hydroxyphenyl cyclopentadecane. Into a solution containing 2 grams 0.009 mole of cyclopentadecanone, 5.5 grams 0.045 mole of 2,6 xylenol, 0.1 milliliter of n butyl mercaptan, and 2 milliliters of methylene chloride there is introduced, with stirring, anhyrous hydrogen chloride gas while maintaining the temperature of the reaction mixture at 15 160C. Solids begin to separate out from the reaction mixture and when the reaction mixture becomes too thick to stir an additional 3 milliliters of methylene chloride are added.The reaction is followed by gas chromatographic analysis of samples removed from the reaction mixture. When gas chromatographic analysis of these samples indicates the absence of the macrocyclic ketone the reaction mixture is filtered and the solids are washed with methylene chloride. The solids are recrystallized from methanol. Analysis by gas chromatography of the solids, which have a melting point of 233 234.5 C, shows that they have a retention time of 28.80 minutes relative to p cumyl phenol which emerges at 14.06 minutes. The following example illustrates a polycarbonate of the instant invention. EXAMPLE 10 Into a solution containing 5 grams 0.0122 mole of 1, 1 bis 3, 5 dimethyl 4 hydroxyphenyl cyclododecane and 60 milliliters of pyridine there is introduced phosgene at a rate of 0.2 gram per minute for a period of 25 minutes. At the end of the phosgene addition period 100 milliliters of methylene chloride are added and the resultant solution is washed repeatedly with cold dilute 0.01N aqueous HC1 until the solution is substantially free of pyridine. This solution is dried and filtered.The solution contains the bischloroformate of 1, 1 bis 3,5 dimethyl 4 hydroxyphenyl cyclododecane as evidenced by its strong infrared absorption at 1780 cm 1 This methylene chloride solution containing the bischloroformate of l,l bis 3,5 dimethyl 4 hydroxy phenylicyclododecane is added to a mixture containing 2.78 grams 0.0122 mole of bisphenol A, 200 milliliters of methylene chloride, 100 milliliters of water, andO.l milliliter of triethyl amine, maintaned at a pU of 11. This methylene chloride solution is added to said mixture dropwise over a period of 8 minutes. The resultant reaction mixture is stirred for 80 minutes. The methylene chloride phase is recovered from the aqueous phase, and is washed with dilute 0.0Th aqueous HC1 and with water.The methylene chloride solution is then concentrated to a volume of 20 milliliters by evaporation. The polymer is precipitated with acetone, is filtered and is dried in a vacuum oven at 100 C.The resultant polymer has an intrinsic viscosity in methylene chloride at 250C of 0.28 dl gm and a Tg of 240 C. TABLE I EMI67.1 tb SEP U tb SEP Fa, tb SEP rb tb SEP Llm tb SEP rd SEP Dihydric SEP Tg SEP o SEP o SEP o tb SEP o SEP C SEP N SEP rl tb No. SEP t SEP 4 SEP o SEP b tb SEP ori SEP ri SEP c SEP re tb SEP o tb Eq tb SEP 1 SEP HO SEP 011 SEP 1490C. tb comparative SEP CH3 tb SEP H3C SEP C113 tb SEP 2 SEP uo0 C SEP 011 SEP 2020C. tb c 5 SEP C tb SEP I SEP C tb SEP O tb SEP A tb SEP s SEP a.s SEP q tb SEP commat SEP , SEP SEP SEP tb H SEP  SEP i SEP tb SEP v SEP v SEP 4 SEP J SEP tb SEP E SEP o SEP tt tb SEP U SEP Z SEP H SEP k tb SEP X SEP U tb SEP W1 SEP Pi SEP G SEP gL tb SEP U SEP O SEP O tb SEP U SEP U SEP C tb TABLE I cont d EMI68.1 SEP 31 tb SEP cr SEP FI tb SEP CI SEP ol SEP u SEP u SEP u tb SEP PI SEP o SEP o SEP o tb SEP lo SEP DpihYendoi1C SEP Tg SEP of SEP rll tb SEP oi tb SEP tPOP tb SEP er SEP I tb SEP 5 SEP y C3H011 tb SEP 4 SEP HO SEP C SEP 1320C tb cotnparative . tb SEP 3 tb SEP cr SEP O tb U SEP HO SEP Q C SEP r5 SEP OH SEP 1590C tb SEP N tb SEP K tb SEP 6 SEP HO SEP C 0 OH SEP 1450C tb O SEP O tb SEP SEP Ql tb SEP s SEP  SEP D SEP 4 tb SEP f SEP O SEP 4 SEP b tb SEP X SEP U SEP  SEP U tb TABLE I cont d EMI69.1 tb u tb ut SEP , tb 8k SEP Dibydric SEP X SEP U tb SEP No. SEP Phenol SEP Po SEP lycarbonate tb rct SEP 0 tb Or tb SEP O SEP cu tb bbX tb SEP ll3 tb SEP OH tb SEP Ct13 tb SEP and tb SEP 50 SEP mole SEP tb SEP SEP  tb SEP 2 SEP O SEP cr, tb SEP O SEP cr, SEP J tb 1 SEP u SEP OH tb SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP i tb SEP cV SEP 7 tb 3 SEP y YCH3 tb tC SEP SEP O SEP verbar SEP O SEP I SEP 5 tb K SEP v SEP i SEP o SEP A tb t0 SEP O tb SEP Z SEP H tb X tb As illustrated by the foregoing examples and the data in Table I not all of the dihydric phenols containing cyclaolkylidene bridging groups yield polycarbonates having improved Tgs. There is a wide variation in the second order glass transition temperatures of these cycloalkylidene conatining polycarbonates.Indeed, some of these cycloalkylidene containing polycarbonates exhibit lower Tgs than the conventional alkylidene containing polycarbonates such as those based on bisphenol A. Thus, while a polycarbonate derived from 4,4 cyclohexylidene bisphenol Example 3 has a higher Tg than a polycarbonate derived from 1, 1 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane Example 1 , a polycarbonate derived from l,l bis 3 methyl 4 hydroxyphenyl cyclohexane example 4 has a Tg which is lower than that of said bisphenol A type polycarbonate. The presence of larger cycloalkylidene bridging groups in the dihydric phenol does not insure that the resultant polycarbonates will exhibit higher second order glass transition temperatures. Thus, a polycarbonate derived from 1, 1 bis 3 methyl 4 hydroxyphenyl cyclopentade cane Example 5 has a lower Tg than a polycarbonate derived from the smaller cycloalkylidene containing bisphenol l,l bis 3 methyl 4 hydroxyphenyl cyclododecane Example 2 . Indeed, the polycarbonate derived from the l,l bis 3 methyl 4 hydroxyphenyl cyclopentadecane Example 5 has a lower Tg than a polycarbonate derived from the much smaller cycloalkylidene containing bisphenol 4,4 cyclohexyli dene bisphenol Example 3 . The carbonate polymer of the instant invention Example 10 which is derived from 50 mole percent bisphenol A and 50 mole percent l,l bis 3,5 dimethyl4 hydroxyphenyl cyclododecane has a Tg of 240 C as compared with a Tg of 202 C of a similar polycarbonate falling outside the scope of the instant invention derived from 100 percent of l,l bis 3 methyl 4 hydroxyphenyl cyclododecane Example 2 . The carbonate polymers of the instant invention are useful in making films, sheets, molded articles, and the like. Obviously, other modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings. It is, therefore, understood that changes may be made in the particular embodiments of the invention described and claimed which are within the full intended scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.