# FABRIC SOFTENER AGGLOMERATES

## Claims
Tongewebeweichmacher,umfassend Tonteilchen in der Form von Agglomeraten. welche Agglomerate im wesentlichen mit einem Verteilungshilfsmittel beschichtet sind.

## Description
The present invention relates to clays of the type currently used in detergent compositions, and the like, to provide a fabric softening function. Some detergent compositions contain the clay softener in the form of small, granular agglomerates. Unfortunately, such clay agglomerates can undesirably affect the dispensability of the detergent compositions from dispensers commonly employed in automatic washing machines. The present invention provides means for overcoming this difficulty. Various patent documents describe granular detergent compositions comprising particulate materials such as fabric softener clays and builder zeolites, together with various fabric treating agents such as long chain organic amines and quaternary ammonium compounds. See, for example DE A 29 64 114.3 EP A 0023367 0026528 0028432 and DE A 28 57 163.3 24 39 541.3 and 23 34899.4. Many such products are prepared by mixing the clay with the crutcher mix and spray drying in well known fashion. In some instances, the formulator of such clay containing detergents may wish to add clay to the product by a simple dry mixing operation whereby agglomerated clay is simply admixed with a spray dried base detergent powder. Indeed, agglomerated clays are available from many commercial sources as generally spherical particles, usually approximately 0.2 6 mm in diameter. Such agglomerates may be dyed various colors to signal their presence in the detergent composition. However, on contact with water the clay agglomerates can impede release of the detergent granules from automatic washing machine detergent dispensers. This dispensing problem has now been overcome, as will be seen from the following disclosure. The present invention encompasses agglomerates comprising fabric softener clays especially smectite clays said agglomerates comprising an effective amount of a dispensing aid on their surfaces. The invention also encompasses granular detergent compositions which comprise various conventional detersive ingredients such as detersive surfactants, builders, enzymes, bleach, optical brighteners, bleach activators and the like, all at conventional levels, as well as various water insoluble particulate ingredients such as zeolites and fabric softener clays, characterized in that fabric softener clay is in the form of agglomerates, said agglomerates being substantially coated with a dispensing aid. All percentages and ratios recited herein are by weight. unless otherwise stated. As noted, the compositions of this invention comprise, in major part, conventional ingredients that are quite familiar to formulators of granular detergents. One of the major advantages of the dispensing aids used in this invention is that they are entirely compatible with such conventional detergent ingredients, used at conventional concentrations. Specific non limiting examples of such fabric softening smectite clay minerals available from commercial sources under the following listed names registered trade marks are The dispensing aids herein are designed to impede clay swellability sufficiently to allow the clay agglomerates to survive their time in the dispenser relatively intact, yet not be so tenaciously affixed to the agglomerates as to decrease their ability to break apart in the wash liquor and function as a fabric softener. The most preferred dispensing aids herein are the well known water soluble quaternary ammonium salts of the general formula Other dispensing aids herein are the substantially water insoluble quaternaries of the formula Mono and di and tri amines of the formula Other dispensing aids which can be coated onto the clay agglomerates include fatty acid mixtures fatty acid esters sorbitan esters of fatty acids carnauba waxes polyalkylene glycols and the like, all of which provide a slight, but sufficient, binding coating action that allows the agglomerates to survive the initial influx of water into the detergent dispenser. It is to be understood that the water soluble quaternaries are much preferred for use as dispensing aids herein. Also useful herein as the surfactant are the water soluble soaps, e.g. the common sodium and potassium coconut or tallow soaps well known in the art. The surfactant component can comprise as little as 1 of the compositions herein, but preferably the compositions will contain 5 to 40 , preferably 10 to 30 , of surfactant. Mixtures of anionics such as the alkyl benzene sulfonates, alkyl sulfates and paraffin sulfonates are preferred for through the wash cleansing of a broad spectrum of soils and stains from fabrics. The laundry compositions herein also preferably contain enzymes to enhance their through the wash cleaning performance on a variety of soils and stains. Amylase and protease enzymes suitable for use in detergents are well known in the art and in commercially available liquid and granular detergents. Commercial detersive enzymes preferably a mixture of amylase and protease are typically used at levels of 0.001 to 2 , and higher, in the present compositions. Moreover, the compositions herein can contain, in addition to ingredients already mentioned, various other optional ingredients typically used in commercial products to provide aestheic or additional product performance benefits. Typical ingredients include pH regulants, perfumes, dyes, bleach, optical brighteners, soil suspending agents, bactericides, preservatives, suds control agents, and the like. Such ingredients typically comprise 0.5 to 30 of conventional, granular laundry detergents. The compositions herein can also contain additional quantities of the aforementioned amine or quaternary compounds, over and above that coated onto the clay agglomerates, to function as auxiliary softening agents for the clay. In general, for such auxiliary softening use the detergent compositions herein will contain from 0.5 to 15 of these agents, over and above what is on the agglomerates. See, for example, EP A 0026528 for a further description of such materials and their use as softeners in clay containing granular detergents. In a through the wash mode, the compositions prepared in the manner of this invention are typically used at a concentration of at least 500 ppm. preferably 0.10 to 1.5 . in an aqueous laundry bath at pH 7 11 to launder fabrics. The laundering can be carried out over the range from 5 C to the boil, with excellent cleaning softening results and without dispenser clogging. Stated generally, the fully formulated detergent compositions herein are in granular form, and comprise i at least 1 , typically 5 40 , conventional detersive surfactant ii at least 1 , typically 1 20 , softener clay as agglomerates, said agglomerates being substantially coated with a dispensing aid iii 0.5 45 detergency builder iv optionally typically 0.001 2 enzymes and v optionally, conventional detersive adjuncts such as sodium perborate bleach, perborate activators, optical brighteners, and the like, at conventional levels. In a highly preferred mode, the compositions will also contain 0.1 to 15 of one or more of the amine and or cationic fabric softener adjuncts described in EP A 0026528 , as part of the base granule. The compositions herein are prepared by separately forming the clay agglomerate coated with the dispensing aid and the detergent base granule. and then simply dry mixing the two. In a commercial process, the coating of dispensing aid will not usually completely cover each agglomerate, and, indeed, perfect coating is not necessary to the successful practice of the invention substantially coating the agglomerates will suffice. The base granules can be formed from an aqueous crutcher mix by any of a number of well known processes, but conventional spray drying is convenient. The coating of dispensing aid can be applied to the clay agglomerates in any number of ways, but simple spraying thereon is convenient. In a preferred mode, a water solution dispersion of the above described water soluble quaternaries is sprayed onto the agglomerates and dried. One of the advantages of the present invention is that it can be performed using conventional procedures and apparatus known in the detergency arts. The following examples are typical of compositions prepared according to this invention, but are not intended to be limiting thereof. A. Preparation of Clay A commercial smectite softener clay is admixed with 20 its own weight of water and agglomerated into particles in the size range 3 4 mm in a standard pan agglomerator. A saturated aqueous solution of tallow alkyl trimethyl ammonium chloride is sprayed evenly onto the clay agglomerates, and dried to form a more or less complete coating on the agglomerate particles. The quat TTAC coating represents about 0.1 3 of the weight of the clay agglomerates. B. Preparation of Base Detergent Granule A spray dried detergent granule is prepared as follows, An aqueous crutcher mix comprising the following ingredients is prepared percentages listed relate to percent ingredients in the complete formulation after spray drying and mixing with the clay agglomerates and spray dried in a standard tower to form base granules. In use, the composition of Example I is cleanly dispensed from the dispenser receptacle of an automatic clothes washing machine. A highly preferred spray dried granule which contains a mixed softener active comprising clay amine quaternary is prepared as follows,