# Olefin polymerization catalyst and process.

## Abstract
Isotactic index improvement is achieved for C3 and higher alpha olefins in systems containing a catalyst component comprising titanium supported on a magnesium halide support. The titanium component is formed by copulverizing the magnesium halide with one or more electron donors followed by treatment with liquid titanium halide. The improvement is achieved by using a dialkylaluminum alkyl phenoxide component with the trialkylaluminum cocatalyst normally used. In slurry polymerizations, the isotactic index of the polymer has been improved. It is possible to achieve a variable melt flow index for polypropylene while maintaining good isotactic index. Isotactic index is retained at high levels even though the temperature and or time of polymerization is varied.

## Claims
What is Claimed 1. A catalyst for the polymerization of alpha olefins of the formula CH2 CHR, where R is an alkyl radical of 1 6 carbon atoms and mixtures thereof with ethylene, comprising a a component containing titanium on a magnesium halide support which is obtained by copulverizing magnesium halide with one or more electron donors to form a copulverized product followed by reacting the copulverized product with a liquid titanium compound containing halogen and b an organoaluminum component comprising a trialkylaluminum compound in admixture with an effective amount of a dialkylaluminum alkylphenoxide component to give improved performance characteristics to the catalyst as compared to when the component consists of trialkylaluminum. 2. A catalyst as claimed in Claim 1 wherein a phenol electron donor is copulverized. 3. A catalyst as claimed in Claim 1 wherein polysiloxane and phenol electron donors are copulverized. 4. A catalyst as claimed in. Claim 1 wherein a phenol electron donor, polysiloxane, titanium tetrahalide and a carboxylic ester electron donor are copulverized. 5. A catalyst as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the liquid titanium compound containing halogen is TiCl. 6. The catalyst of Claim 1 wherein the dialkylaluminum alkylphenoxide has the formula RxA1 OR 3x where x I or 2 R is an alkyl radical of the formula CnH2n 1 where 1 n n 10 10 R is an alkyl phenyl radical of the formulaEMI12.1 where R CnH2n 1 where 1 c n 10 and, n CnH2n 1 where 1 n 10 and where y z 5. 7. The catalyst of Claim 6 wherein the dialkyl aluminum alkylphenoxide is diisobutyl aluminum 2,6 ditertbutyl 4 methylphenoxide. 8. A catalyst as claimed in Claim 4 wherein the organoaluminum component comprises trialkylaluminum and diisobutyl aluminum 2,6 di tertbutyl 4 methylphen oxide with a carboxylic ester donor. 9. In the polymerization of alpha olefins of the formula CH2 r CHR, where R is an alkyl radical of 1 6 carbon atoms and mixtures thereof with ethylene, using as a catalyst a a component containing titanium on a magnesium halide support which is obtained by copulverizing magnesium halide with one or more electron donors to form a copulverized product followed by reacting the copulverized product with a liquid titanium compound containing halogen, and b a trialkylaluminum component wherein the improvement comprises using an effective amount of a dialkyl aluminum alkyl phenoxide compound in component b to give improved performance characteristics to the catalyst as compared to that produced when component b consists of trialkylaluminum. 10. A process as claimed in Claim 9 wherein a phenol electron donor is copulverized. 11. A process as claimed in Claim 9 wherein polysiloxane and phenol electron donors are copulverized. 12. A process as claimed in Claim 9 wherein a phenol electron donor, polysiloxane, titanium tetrahalide and a carboxylic ester electron donor are copulverized. 13. A process as claimed in Claim 9 wherein the liquid titanium compound containing halogen is TC1,. 14. A process as claimed in Claim 12 wherein the liquid titanium compound containing halogen is TiCl. 15. The catalyst of Claim 9 wherein the dialkylaluminum alkylphenoxide has the formula R A1 OR 3 , where x 1 or 22 R is an alkyl radical of the formulaCnH2n 1 where 1 c n 10R is an alkyl phenyl radical of the formula EMI14.1 where R CnH2n 1 where 1 n 10 andR CnH2n 1 where 1 n 10 and where y z c 5. 16. The catalyst of Claim 15 wherein the dialkyl aluminum alkylpenoxide is diisobutyl aluminum 2,6 ditertbutyl 4 methylphenoxide. 17. A process as claimed in Claim 14 wherein the organoaluminum component contains triethylaluminum and diisobutyl aluminum 2,6 di tertbutyl 4 methyl phenoxide with a carboxylic ester donor. 18. a catalyst as claimed in Claim 1 wherein a phenol electron donor, a polysiloxane electron donor,TiCl4, and an ester of an aromatic acid are copulverized with the magnesium chloride. 19. A catalyst as claimed in any of Claims 1 8 and 18 where the total amount of aluminum in component b ranges from about 10 1 to about 500 1, as a molar ratio, based on the moles of titanium in component a and the mole ratio of trialkylaluminum to dialkyl aluminum alkyl phenoxide ranges from about 10 1 to about 1 10. 20. A catalyst as claimed in any of Claims 1 8 and 18 19 wherein the mole ratio of trialkylaluminum to dialkyl aluminum alkyl phenoxide ranges from about 10 1 to about 1 10. 21. A process as claimed in Claim 9 wherein a phenol electron donor, a polysiloxane electron donor, TiCl4, and an ester of an aromatic acid are copulverized with the magnesium chloride. 22. A process as claimed in any of Claims 9 17 and 21 where the total amount of aluminum in component b ranges from about 10 1 to about 500 1, as a molar ratio, based on the moles of titanium in component a and the mole ratio of trialkylaluminum to dialkyl aluminum alkyl phenoxide ranges from about 10 1 to about 1 10. 23. A process as claimed in any of Claims 9 17 and 21 22 wherein the mole ratio of trialkylaluminum to dialkyl aluminum alkyl phenoxide ranges from about 10 1 Lo about 1 10.

## Description
OLEFIN POLYMERIZATION CATALYST AND PROCESSBackground of the Invention The present invention relates to a catalyst for the polymerization of alpha olefins, such as propylene. It is known to polymerize alpha olefins, such as propylene, using a catalyst component comprising titanium on a magnesium halide support, the component being obtained by copulverizing magnesium halide with at least one electron donor to form a copulverized product followed by reacting the copulverized product with a liquid titanium compound containing halogen. Such a component is then used in the polymerization reaction with a trialkylaluminum co catalyst, e.g., triethylaluminum. An example of such a procedure is shown in copending U.S. Application Serial No. 405,977, filedAugust 9, 1982, which is incorporated herein by reference.Summary of the Invention The present invention relates to a novel catalyst combination which comprises a trialkylaluminurti, dialkyl aluminum alkylphenoxide aka DAA AP combination wherein dialkyl aluminum alkylphenoxide has the structure RxAl OR sx where x 1 or 2 R is an alkyl radical of the formulaCH where 1 C n C 10. n 2n 1R is an alkyl phenyl radical of the formulaEMI2.1 where R C CnH2n 1 where 1 c n 10 and, 2n 1 R CnH2n 1 where 1 n L 10 and where y z 5. Preferably the dialkyl aluminum alkylphenoxide is diisobutylaluminum 2,6 di tertbutyl 4 methylphenoxide DIBAL BOT . This combination unexpectedly gives increased isotactic index to the resulting polypropylene produced using it. It also has been found that it is possible to achieve a variable melt flow index of good value There is good retention of isotactic index for the system even though the temperature and hydrogen pressure or time of polymerization is varied Detailed Description of the Present Invention The catalyst of the present invention comprises a a magnesium chloride supported titanium containing component and b an organoaluminum cocatalyst combination, preferably with an electron donor. Component a in the catalyst is a magnesium chloride containing material which is formed by copulverizing magnesium chloride with one or more electron donors Lewis bases to form a copulverized product which is then contacted with a liquid titanium compound containing halogen. The types of electron donor materials which can be used are organic compounds containing 0,N, S, or P moieties which share electrons. Some representative donor materials which can be used include phenol compounds, aliphatic and aromatic ethers, aliphatic and aromatic carboxylic esters, alcohols, a dehydes, ketones, aliphatic and aromatic carboxylic acids, lactones, polysiloxanes and carboxylic acyl halides. Representative donor materials suitable for activating the magnesium chloride support material are known in the art.Preferably, the donors used include phenol compounds, polysiloxanes and esters of a carboxylic acid e.g., ethyl benzoate as described inU.S. Serial No. 405,977, above. The copulverization step can include TiC14 e.g., as a complex with one or more of the donors . The amount of donor material used can range from about 0.05 to 3 times the weight of the magnesium chloride. After the copulverized magnesium chloride donor material has been formed by grinding for a suitable length of time e.g., 0.5 hr. to about 30 days , the product is treated with a liquid titanium halide, such as TiC14. The liquid titanium compound containing halogen is contacted with the activated magnesium halide at elevated temperature, e.g., 600C. to about 1200C, . The amount of titanium halide used can be varied quite widely, e.g., about 0.5 to 500 times the weight of the solid being treated. The component b used in the present invention is a mixture of trialkylaluminum and a dialkylaluminum alkyl phenoxide such as diisobutylaluminum 2,6 di tertbutyl 4 methyl phenoxide cocatalyst combination preferably with a suitable electron donor for the mixture e.g., an ester of a carboxylic acid . The trialkylaluminum material has been conventionally used alone with the type of magnesium chloride component described before and includes such compounds as triethylaluminum, tri n butylaluminum, triisobutyl aluminum, and trihexylaluminum. The molar amount used preferably ranges from about 200 1 to about 10 1 based on the titanium content of component a . The molar ratio of donor to component a can range from about 1 1 to 400 1 based on Ti in Component a . A novel addition to component b , in accordance with the present invention, is DAA AP. The total aluminum can be in a molar ratio of from about 10 1 to about 500 1 based on the moles of Ti in component a .The mole ratio of trialkylaluminum to the DAA AP component can range from 10 1 to 1 10, preferably from about 2 1 to about 1 2. When the amount of DAA AP is less than the amount of trialkylaluminum compound, both productivity and isotactic index improvement in the polymerization of propylene have been noted when slurry polymerization is used. The types of donors useful with component b can be the conventional donors used with organoaluminum e.g., the alkyl esters of aromatic carboxylic acids, which are preferred . Representative donors include methyl toluate, ethyl anisate and ethyl benzoate. The molar ratio of donor to the organoaluminum portion of component b used can range from about 1 20 to about 1 1. The catalyst in slurry polymerizations has been found to result in an increase in the isotactic index of the polymer as compared to an analogous catalyst lacking the DAA AP. The following Examples are intended to further describe the present invention for purposes of further illustration. EXAMPLE 1 This Example illustrates preparation of the titanium tetrachloride ethyl benzoate complex used in the preparation of a particularly preferred catalyst in accordance with the present invention The use of this complex is preferred but not required. A 3 liter L three necked flask was equipped with a gas inlet valve, a mechanical stirrer bearing driving a paddle made of TEFLON fluorocarbon polymer, and a 250ml pressure equalizing dropping funnel. To this flask was added 1.5 L heptane Phillips 99.9 and 190 ml 1.73 mol distilled TiC14 under rapid stirring followed by the slow addition of 245 ml 1.72 mol ethyl benzoate Aldrich 99 during a one hour period. A yellow precipitate of the complex formed immediately.The mixture was stirred for two hours at ambient conditions. After transfer of the flask to a VacuumAtmospheres Co. glove box under nitrogen, the mixture was filtered, washed with two liters heptane, and vacuum dried for about 17 hours. The yield approached theoretical. EXAMPLE 2 This Example illustrates preparation of the copulverized, supported component containing titanium of the present invention. Into a 6.2 L Paul Abbe jar mill was placed 500 g MgCl2 vacuum dried under heat containing about 1 percent water and 8.0 kg of 1.6 cm diameter 5 8 inch stainless steel balls. This charge was milled for five days at about 50 rpm. The activated powder was separated from the milling balls by means of a No. 30 sieve. The 8.0 kg of stainless steel balls, 1.6 cm diameter and 250 g 2.62 mol of activated MgCl2 were recharged into the same mill along with 255 g of phenol 2.71 mol and 37.5 ml 96 100 millipoise silicone oil General Electric Co. SF 96 100 . Milling at about 50 rpm was carried out for another five days. Then 132 g of the TiCl.ethyl benzoate complex of Example 1 was added to the charge and the new mixture milled for yet another five days total 15 days . The orange red product was then sieved thru a No. 30 screen to separate the product from the milling balls. The yield was 540 g. Inside a glove box under nitrogen, 212 gm. of the milled product was charged into a 2 L1 three necked flask equipped with a 250 ml pressure equalizing dropping funnel, gas inlet valve, and mechanical stirrer shaft. With stirring, under nitrogen, 625 ml toluene was transferred into the reaction flask by cannula followed by the addition of 375 ml 3.41 mol TiClu also by cannula. The reaction mixture was stirred at about 100 rpm as the flask was slowly heated to 900C. by an oil bath After temperature equilibration for about one hour, the reaction was continued at about 900C. for an additional three hours.The reaction flask was then cooled to ambient conditions over 45 minutes during which the solid phase settled, whereupon the supernatant liquid was removed by cannula. Then 1 L toluene was added with mild stirring, about 40 rpm, to wash the solid for ten minutes. After a settling time of a half hour, the supernatant liquid was again removed by cannula. The washing was repeated once more with toluene and five times more with heptane all washes I L .The washings were followed by transfer of the orange slurry to a 1 L, three neck flask with additional heptane. The supernatant was removed by cannula remaining heptane evaporated under vacuum. After sieving through a No. 140 screen, the yield from this TiC14 extraction process was 92 g of orange brown powder catalyst component a . EXAMPLES 3 9 Thee Examples liustrate the slurry polymerization of polypropylene in a solvent heptane employing the catalyst component of Example 2. A 4.5 L reactor containing 2 L heptane stirred at 600 rpm was used to carry out a polymerization for 1.5 hours at 650C. with the reactants added in the following TEAL, dii sobutylaluminum 2 , 6 di tertburyl 4 methylphenoxide, MPT or EA donor, 50 mg catalyst component ofExample 2, hydrogen moderator, and propylene maintained at 9 atm. pressure. After the specified polymerization time the reactor was vented, the product was filtered, washed, and air dried. The Table sets forth the results Catalytic productivity in gm gm catalyst component a calculated in the Table as wt. dried polymer gm. heptane soluble polymer gm. wt. catalyst component a gm. Isotactic Index II in the Table is calculated as the fraction of a sample of dried, isolated polymer insoluble in boiling heptane for three hours termed 11C711 multiplied by the amount of dried, isolated polymer, multiplied by 100 and divided by total polymer produced, that is II C7 X dry polymer x 100 total polymer where total polymer is all polymer produced in the polymerization reactor, both insoluble and soluble in the polymerization medium. DIBAL TEAL BOT Donor H2 Time Temp Prod. IIExample mmol mmol mmol psig hr C g.gcat 1 12 3.0 MPT 3.2 1.5 65 9200 89.1 Control 2 6.9 3.0NPT 3.2 1.5 65 3200 94.0 Control 3 6.9 5.1 3.0 MPT 3.2 1.5 65 6100 95.2 4 6.9 5.1 3,0 MPT 10.0 1.5 65 5300 93.3 5 6.9 5.1 3.0 MPT 3.2 6.0 65 7800 96.2 6 6.9 5.1 3.0 MPT 3.2 1.5 75 4400 94.7 7 6.9 5.1 3.0 MPT 6.0 1.5 75 4700 94.2 8 6.9 5.l 3.O MPT 10.0 1.5 75 5000 92.5 9 6.9 5.1 3.OEA 3.2 1.5 75 7300 91.5 These data illustrate the substitution of DAA AP for some of the TEAL normally present as the cocatalyst results in an increase in isotactic index for the slurry polymerization of propylene, even at increased temperature, hydrogen pressures, and polymerization time. The melt flow indices ASTM D1238 of stabilized polymer powders from Examples 6, 7 and 8 are 1.8, 4.5 and 8.4 g. 10 min. 1, respectively.