# Process for the preparation of methyl monohalides.

## Abstract
Methylmonohalides are produced by halogenating methane at a temperature of 100 to 300 C in presence of a supported metal of group 8 as catalyst.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for the selective catalytic production of methyl monohalides from methane carried out at temperatures between about 100 to 300 C in the presence of a halogen using ds the catalyst a supported Group VIII metal catalyst. 2. The process of claim 1 utilizing a Group VIII metal supported on alumina, silica, active carbon, barium sulfate or other carriers. 3. The process of claim 1 or 2 wherein the catalyst is present in amounts of 0.1 to 25 by weight based on the amount of methane feed.

## Description
METHYL HALIDES AND METHYL ALCOHOL FROM METHANE Technical Field This inventionrelates to solid acidic or metal catalyst promoted halogenation of methane to produce methyl monohalides in high selectivity. Concurrent or simultaneous hydrolysis provides methyl alcohol and or dimethyl ether in good yields. Background Art The selective conversion of methane into its tonofunctional derivatives, such as methyl halides or methyl alcohol, is highly desirable, but in practice has not been achieved on any practical basis. The chlorination of methane is an industrial process practiced on a large scale. the reaction is a strongly exothermic one irhich takes place via free radicals and is generally conducted without supplying heat and usually in the absence of a catalyst at 400 450 C under slightly elevated pressures. he chlorination is normally thermally initiated via homolysis of chlorine molecules to chlorine atoms the process can also be operated photochemically. For surveys of these processes, it is appropriate to refer to F. Asinger Paraffins. Chemistry and Technology , Pergamon Press, New York, 1968 M. L. Poutsma methods in Free Radical Chemistry , Viol.II, E.S. Huyser Ed., M. Dekker, New York, 1969 and R.Weissermel and B. . Arpe Industrial Organic Chemistry ,Verlag Chemie, 1978, pp. 46 47. By these reactions, all of the, possible chlorinated methanes are usually formed together when an equimolar Cl2 CH4 ratio is employed EMI2.1 If methyl chloride is the preferred product, a large excess of methane approx. tenfold rust be used, as methyl chloride is more rapidly chlorinated than methane under free radical conditions. There are normally many by products of the chlorination of methane, such as hexachloroethane and small amounts of trichloroethylene. Methyl alcohol is increasingly important not only as 4 chemical raw material and building block for such products as formaldehyde, acetic acid, vinyl acetate, ethylene glycol and others, but also via its condensation reactions to give gasoline or hydrocarbons, such as olefines, aromatics and the like. Zts direct use as a transportation fuel is also gaining importance. A whole scope of so called Cl chemistry is based primarily on methyl alcohol. Methyl alcohol, once produced from wood fermentation i.e., wood alcohol , is, at the present time, nearly exclusively produced from CO and B2 synthesis gas derived from coal or natural gas. Coal or methane first aust be converted in an energy consuming step into syn gas, which is then, in a second energy consuming step under pressure and generally forcing conditions, converted into methyl alcohol. Clearly, direct oxidative conversion of methane into methyl alcohol would be highly desirable. Despite continued efforts no such process was, towever, previously achieved on a practical wale. The oxidation of methane generally is not selective. In the past, many attempted oxidations concentrated on manufacturing formaldehyde from methane.The low rate of reaction of CH4 at temperatures below 600 C coupled with the high rate of decomposition of formaldehyde above 60001C is probably the reason that no. industrial process has been developed to date.Decomposition of forealdehyde could.only be avoided be extremely short residence times. Such a process has been recently described involving partial oxidation of methane to methyl alcohol and formaldehyde. The residence time is 1.55 x 10 3 Sec. and the pressure 60 atm., respectively Huels . However, oxidation of methane, similarly to chlorination, is free radical chain reaction, which explains the observed lack of selectivity. I have previously described in the Journal of theAmerican Chemical Society, sol. 95O 7686 1973 that, under specific conditions, alkanes can undergo electophilic chlorination and chlorinolysis. With a 5 catalyst in SO2ClF solution at 78 or at room temperature with a reaction time of 24 hours, methane was transformed qualitatively to methyl chloride. No practical yields were obtained. AlCl3 catalyst gave under similar conditions 1 methyl chloride. these reactions clearly did not represent a practical method for the chlorination of methane. Summary and Description of the Invention he present invention relates to a process for the selective halogenation of methane to produce methyl halides and through their hydrolysis methyl alcohol indoor dimethyl ether. The Catalysts Either i solid strongly acidic catalysts, including strong Bronsted or conjugated Lewis Bronsted superacid catalysts, or it supported Group VIII metal particularly platinum and palladium catalysts are capable of catalyzing the gas phase halogenation of methane predominantly to methyl monohalides in 85 to 99 selectivity. Subsequent or concurrent catalytic hydrolysis gives methyl alcohol and or dimethyl ether. A particularly useful class of solid, strongly acidic catalysts are those derived from halides, oxyhalides, oxides, sulfides and oxysulfides of metals, particularly transition metals of Groups IV, V, VI, VIII of the Periodic Table, such as of tantalum, niobium, zirconium, tungsten, titanium, chromium and the like, or mixtures thereof, deposited on suitable chalcide carriers, such as alumina, zirconia or silica alumina. These catalysts are capable of effecting the ready conversion of methane to methyl halides. As noted in Olah, G.A. Priedel Crafts Chemistry, N.Y., Wiley Interscience, 1973. p. 343 344, the elements of Group VIA such a8 oxygen, sulfur, selenium or tellurium, have been called chalcogens , and compounds containing these elements are called chalconites , chalcogenides or chalcides. A A variety of solid oxides and sulfides. especially those comprising alumina, silica and mixtures of alumina and silica, either natural or synthetic, in which other oxides such as chromia, magnesia, aolybdena, thoria, tungstic oxide, sirconia, etc. nay also be present, as well as sulfides of molybdenum are useful chalcide carriers. Many naturally occurring compositions exist for use the carriers including bauxite, floridin, Georgia clay, and other natural aluminosilicates. Synthetic chalcides, other than those of the silica alumina type, representative of the chalcide carriers are BeO, Cr2O3, P2OS, ThO2, TiO2,Al2 SO 3 which may be regarded asAl2O3.3SO3 , Al2O3.Cr2O3, Al2O3, Fe2O3, Al2O3.CoO, Al2O30 MnO, Al2030 V203, Al2O3.Mo2O3, Cr2O3.FeO3,MoS2, and MoS3. The acidic chalcide supports are physically and chemically stable. They are generally catalytically active at only higher temperatures, as their acidity is not great enough to lead them to form stable complexes with unsaturated compounds, as do the aluminum halides, for example. Another class of useful solid strongly acidic catalysts are the strong Bronsted or conjugated Lewis Bronsted superacid catalysts. These catalysts include Bronsted type perfluorinated sulfonic acids of 4 to 18 carbon atoms deposited on a suitable inert carrier or polymeric resin sulfonic acid catalysts. These solid superacid catalysts have a Bammett acidity function Ho of less than ll.9, the value for 100 percent sulfuric acid. The supported Group VIII metal catalysts include the various Group VIII metals supported on suitable chalcide carriers. Particularly useful are platinum and palladium supported on alumina, silica, active carbon, barium sulfate or related carriers. The Process Conditions It is my invention that a practical process has been found for the selective acidic or metal catalyzed balogenation of methane to methyl monohalides chloride, bromide, iodize or fluoride . The acidic halogenations are carried out over solid acidic catalysts, particularly supported metal based catalysts, preferably selected from transition metal halides, oxides or oxyhalides, such as those of iron, tantalum, niobium or zirconium, on alumina, baria, or other neutral oxides, barium sulfate or related carriers, or over solid Bronsted type perfluorinated sulfonic acids of 4 to 18 carbon atoms deposited on a suitable inert carrier or polymeric resinsulfonic acid catalysts at temperatures between about 100 to 500 C, preferably between 200 and 3250C, etal. catalyzed reactions are carried out over supported metal catalysts, preferably of the Group VIII metals, on alumina, maria, or other neutral oxides, barium sulfate or related carriers, at temperatures between ICC and 3500C, preferably between 200 300 C. The solid acidic reactions are considered to take place via surface catalytic activation of chlorine, bromine, or iodine to an electrophilic halogen species.The selective nature of the reactions is reflected by the fact that even when using an excess of halogen methane to chlorine ratio of 1 2 to as high as 1 8 , methyl halides are formed in 85 to 99 selectivity over methylene halides. At the same time, highly selective 99 monochlorination is readily achieved when reacting excess methane methane to chlorine ratio from lsl to 8 1 over the same catalysts. Excess methane under these conditions is also a diluent for the system and eliminates any potentially explosive xtures. It is a further part of my invention that similar selective monohalogenation of methane was also discovered to be possible using supported metal catalysts on alumina, baria, or other neutral oxides, barium sulfate or related carriers. In these reactions, an intermediate insertion of the metal in a C H bond is premised with subsequent chlorinolysis. In a similar fashion bromination and jodination of methane can also be achieved both in acid catalyzed electrophilic and metal promoted halogenations. Fluorination of methane is also possible, but necescitates high dilution, preferably with an inert gas, .and handling difficulties associated with the use of elemental fluorine. When the halogenation of inethane is carried out siam fashion that the halogenation step is directly followed, without separation of products, by passing the mixture together with anhydrous hydrogen fluoride, over a catalyst such as fluoridated alumina or higher valency metal fluorides, such as cobalt trifluoride, antimony perfluoride, or the like transition metal fluorides, methyl fluoride is formed directly from methane without the use of elemental fluorine. hydrogen chloride, bromide and iod ide by products of the reactions can be readily recycled via oxyhalogenation and thus reus ed. Methyl halides formed in the selective halogenations disclosed in my invention can be used, according to my co pending application serial No. 290,292 in the production of lower clef ins and hydrocarbons of the gasoline range, when treated over bifunctional acidic basic catalysts. The methyl halides readily obtainable in high yield and selectivity according to my invention are also conveniently used via their hydrolysis either under thermal or catalytic conditions, to produce methyl alcohol and or dimethyl ether. The conversion of methane to methyl alcohol can be accordingly carried out as a two step process, but also can be practiced as a slngle step process converting methane directly to methyl alcohol fandRor dimethyl ether when reacting methane in the presence of water steaza with halogens. In this application, acidic oxides, oxyhalides or Bronsted acidic catalysts, compatible with water, are preferred.EMI8.1 As hydrogen halides X Cl, Br, I can be readily recycled via oxyhalogenation, the disclosed process represents a viable and energy saving alternative to the production of methyl alcohol from Co and , i.e., syn gas. In all of the reactions discussed, the catalyst is preferably present in an amount of 0.1 to 25 based on the amount of methane. The following examples are illustrative and are set forth for the.purpose of illustration only and are not to be construed as limiting the scope of the invention in any manner. In the related Tables, the product compositions have been normalized, even if not stated, to provide 100 percent conversion, excluding unreacted methane which can be recycled.Example 1 A mixture of methane and chlorine in the molar ratios indicated, was reacted over a 20 tantalum oxyfluoride catalyst deposited on alumina in a continuous flow reactor at 2350C to 3000C, respectively. The conversions per pass and product compositions were as foLlows Reaction Temp. 9C 235 235 300 240 240 240 C4 Cl2 ratio 1 2 1 4 1 2 2 1 4 1 8 1 Conversion 13 88 40 9l 95 99 based on methane based on chlorine t Product composition methyl chloride 75 96.5 90 99 99 99 methylene chloride trace 10 trace trace trace ethane 25 trace ethyl chloride 3.5 Example 2 Methane and chlorine in a molar ratio of 1 2 were passed at 250 C over a 20 niobium oxyfluoride catalyst supported on alumina.The product composition obtained with 39b conversion was the following product composition methyl chloride 98 methylene chloride 2 Example 3 Methane and chlorine in a molar ratio of 1 4 were passed over a 20 zirconium oxyfluoride catalyst on alumina in a continuous flow reactor at 2700C. With 30 conversion per pass the following product composition was obtained t Product compositlon methyl chloride 96.5 methylene chloride 3.5 Example 4 A mixture of methane and chlorine in a molar ratio of 1 4 was reacted over a 20t antimony oxyfluoride catalyst deposited on alumina at 250 C. A 19 conversion per pass gave the following product composition Product composition methyl chloride 86 methylene chloride S ethyl chloride 9Example 5 A 1 4 molar mixture of methane and chlorine was reacted over a Nafion E perfluorinated polymeric resinsulfonic acid catalyst at 185µC, giving a i61 conversion and the following product composition Q Product composition methyl chloride 93 methylene chloride 1 ethyl chloride 6Example 6 A 1 2 molar mixture of methane and bromine was reacted in the presence of a 204 antimony oxyfluoride catalyst supported on alumina at 200 C. With a 36 conversion per pass, the following product composition was obtained 4 Product composition methyl bromide 87 ethylene bromide 3 ethyl bromide 0.5 butanesExample 7 A 1 3 molar mixture of methane and chlorine was passed at 2500C over a 1 iron catalyst supported on alumina with a 598 conversion per pass. The following product composition was obtained t Product composition methyl chloride 97 ethyl chloride 3 Example B Methane and chlorine were passed over a 0.5 platinum catalyst deposited on alumina.The conversions and product composition obtained were the following Reaction Temp. C 200 200 250 250 CH4 Cl2 ratio 1 2 1 1 2 1 4 1 t Conversion 50 44 74 82 based on methane based on chlorine t Product composition methyl chloride 92 99 99 99 methylene chloride 8 trace trace traceExample 9 Methane and chlorine were passed at 2000C over a 0.5 palladium catalyst deposited on barium sulfate.The conversions and product composition obtained were the following Reaction Temp. C 200 200CH4 Cl2 ratio 1 2 t Conversion 29 based on methane based on chlorine Product composition methyl chloride 99 99 ethylene chloride trace traceExample 10 A l l l molar mixture of methane, brbmine and water was reacted over a 201 tantalum oxyfluoride catalyst supported on alumina at 2600C. With a 778 conversion, the following product compositon was obtained methyl bromide 64 methyl alcohol dimethyl ether 31 ethyl bromide 3 C3 C4 2 Example 11 A 1 1 1 molar mixture of methane, chlorine and water was reacted over a 20 tungsten oxide on alumina catalyst at 250 C. With a 49 conversion, the following product distribution was obtained. methyl chloride 68 methyl alcohol dimethyl ether 24 ethyl chloride 68 methylene chloride trace C3 C4 2 Example 12 A 1 5 molar mixture of methyl chloride and steam was passed, in a continuous flow reactor, over a catalyst composed of 10 zinc oxide on alumina containing 108 aluminum hydroxide at 385 C. A 29 conversion per pass of methyl alcohol was obtained with 98 selectivity. Example 13 Under conditions of Example 12, when carrying out the reaction with a catalyst composed of 10 magnesium oxide on alumina containing 1QZ aluminum hydroxide at 4200C, a 21 conversion to methyl alcohol was obtained with 98 selectivity.Example 14 Under conditions of Example 12, when carrying out the reaction with a catalyst composed of 108 titanium oxide on alumina containing 10 aluminum hydroxide, a 18 conversion to methyl alcohol was obtained with 98 selectivity. This application has been divided out from my copending application No. 8 290 2800.0