# PROCESS FOR PRODUCING N ACETYLNEURAMINATE LYASE

## Claims
Hybridvektor, in den ein DNA Fragment eingefügt ist, das ein Gen eines Donor Stammes der Gattung

## Description
The present invention relates to a process for producing N acetylneuraminate lyase hereinafter referred to as NA lyase using a microorganism constructed by recombinant DNA techniques. NA lyase EC 4.1.3.3 is the enzyme which catalyzes the conversion reaction of N acetylneuraminate into N acetyl D mannosamine and pyruvate. It is known that the enzyme is used for the determination of a substance containing sialic acid in serum for diagnostic purposes. It is also known that the enzyme exists in animal tissue, pathogenic microorganisms such as It has been reported that the yield of the enzyme was enhanced by adding N acetylneuraminate to the medium Japanese Patent Publication Nos. 54153 81 and 51751 81 . The utilization of N acetylneuraminate is economically disadvantageous and it is demanded to develop the process for producing NA lyase without utilization of N acetylneuraminate. As a result of studies made to develop such a process, it has been found that an NA lyase producing microorganism constructed by incorporating a hybrid plasmid into a recipient of the genus In accordance with the present invention, NA lyase is produced by culturing a microorganism belonging to the genus As the DNA donor strain used to construct the NA lyase producer of the present invention, any microorganism may be used so long as it belongs to the genus The DNA with genetic information controlling NA lyase production hereinafter referred to as chromosomal DNA is extracted from the DNA donor in a well known manner, for example, phenol method described in Biochim. Biophys. Acta, Vol. 72, pp 619 629 1963 . The thus obtained DNA is inserted into a vector DNA to prepare a hybrid DNA. The insertion of a chromosomal DNA into the vector DNA can be attained according to the usual manner. The chromosomal DNA and the vector DNA is treated with a restriction endonuclease to prepare a chromosomal DNA fragment and a cleaved vector DNA and the mixture is treated with DNA ligase to obtain the hybrid DNA. As the vector DNA, a conventional vector such as pBR322, Co1E1, pSC101, pACYC177, pCR1, R6K or λ phage, or their derivatives can be employed. Plasmid pBR322 is preferably used. Examples of the restriction endonuclease are HindIII, BamHI, EcoRI, PstI and SalI, among which HindIII is preferable. As the DNA ligase, DNA ligase derived from T4 phage may be preferably employed. The hybrid DNA thus obtained can be incorporated into a microorganism of the genus The NA lyase non producing strain can be obtained by the following method. A wild strain of the genus The mutant having no ability to utilize N acetylneuraminate can be obtained by culturing the microbial cells obtained by mutation treatment in a glucose minimal medium comprising 2 g l glucose, 1 g l NH₄ ₂SO₄, 7 g l K₂HPO₄, 3 g l KH₂PO₄, 0.1 g l MgSO₄ 7H₂O, 5 mg l thiamine, 0.2 mM threonine, 0.2 mM leucine and 15 g l agar. The formed colonies are replicated in the glucose minimal medium and N acetylneuraminate minimal medium comprising 2 g l N acetylneuraminate, 1 g l NH₄ ₂SO₄ 7 g l K₂HPO₄ 3 g l KH₂PO₄, 0.1 g l MgSO₄ 7H₂O, 5 mg l thiamine, 0.2 mM threonine, 0.2 mM leucine and 15 g l agar. The colonies which can grow on the glucose minimal medium and cannot grow on the N acetylneuraminate minimal medium are picked up to obtain NA lyase non producing strain. An example of such strain is The screening method of the desired transformant is selected according to the kind of the restriction endonuclease used for preparing the hybrid DNA or the kind of the vector DNA utilized. When HindIII and plasmid pBR322 are used, the desired transformant is obtained by culturing the strain in the N acetylneuraminate minimal medium containing ampicillin and picking up the formed colonies having NA lyase activity. An example of the microorganism containing the hybrid DNA is The strain was deposited on March 24, 1984 with the Fermentation Research Institute, Agency of Industrial Science and Technology located at 1 3, Higashi 1 chome, Yatabe machi, Tsukuba gun, Ibaraki ken 305, JAPAN under the Budapest Treaty. The method for culturing the NA lyase producing strains thus obtained is conventional, and is similar to the known method for producing enzymes. As the medium, either a synthetic or natural medium may be used so long as it contains an appropriate carbon source, nitrogen source and inorganic materials. As the carbon source, carbohydrates such as glucose, sucrose, fructose, starch, starch hydrolyzate, molasses, etc. may be used in a concentration of 5 50 g l. As the nitrogen source, organic and inorganic ammonium salts such as ammonium sulfate, ammonium phosphate, ammonium carbonate, ammonium acetate, etc., nitrogen containing organic substances such as peptone, yeast extract, corn steep liquor and casein hydrolyzate, etc. may be used in a concentration of 5 20 g l. As the inorganic materials, potassium monohydrogen phosphate, potassium dihydrogen phosphate, magnesium sulfate, manganese sulfate, etc. may be used in a concentration of 0.05 5 g l. Culturing is carried out under aerobic conditions, for example, with shaking or stirring at a temperature of 25 37 C for 16 48 hours. After completion of the culturing, the culture liquor is subjected to filtration, decantation, centrifugation, etc. to obtain microbial cells. The microbial cells are disrupted by appropriate means such as ultrasonic disintegration, grinding, etc. to obtain a cell extract and the extract is subjected to centrifugation to obtain a supernatant. Then the supernatant is subjected to conventional purification methods such as salting out, dialysis, chromatography using ion exchange cellulose, Sephadex, gel filtration and the like to obtain the purified enzyme. Certain specific embodiments of the invention are illustrated by the following representative examples. Strains indicated in Table 1 were inoculated in L medium and in L medium containing 1 g l N acetylneuraminate and were cultured at 30 C with shaking for 18 hours. After completion of the culturing, the culture liquor was subjected to centrifugation to obtain microbial cells which were then washed with physiological saline solution. The microbial cells were subjected to ultrasonic disintegration to obtain an extract. The NA lyase activity of the extract is shown in Table 1. The transformant strain H3 4 produced NA lyase using a medium which does not contain N acetylneuraminate. H3 4 strain was inoculated in 300 ml of the medium pH 7.0 comprising 1 g l glucose, 10 g l trypton, 5 g l yeast extract, 5 g l sodium chloride and 20 µg ml ampicillin in a 2 ℓ Erlenmeyer flask and cultured at 30 C with shaking for 18 hours. The culture liquor was subjected to centrifugation to obtain microbial cells. The microbial cells were suspended in 20 ml of 0.01M phosphate buffer pH 7.0 and the suspension was subjected to ultrasonic disintegration to disrupt the cells and extract the enzyme. To the extract was added ammonium sulfate and the precipitates which were deposited by the saturation with 30 80 ammonium sulfate were recovered. The precipitates were dissolved in 5 ml of 0.01M phosphate buffer pH 7.0 and the solution was subjected to dialysis with 1 ℓ of the same buffer solution for 24 hours. The dialysate was passed through a column Volume 250 ml, Diameter 2.5 cm packed with DEAE Sephadex equilibrated with the same buffer solution, whereby NA lyase was adsorbed on the DEAE Sephadex. The column was washed with the same phosphate buffer to remove contaminant proteins. Concentration gradient elution was carried out with the same phosphate buffer pH 7.0 and the same phosphate buffer containing 1.0M NaCl. The active fractions were combined and the precipitates which were deposited by the addition of ammonium sulphate up to a saturation of 90 were recovered by centrifugation 12,000 xg, 20 minutes and were dissolved in 5 ml of 0.01M phosphate buffer pH 7.0 . The solution was subjected to dialysis with 1 ℓ of the same buffer pH 7.0 for 24 hours. The dialysate was subjected to freeze drying to obtain 20 mg of purified NA lyase powder preparation specific activity 3.0 units mg .