# Copolymer elastomer with improved heat and oil resistance based on modified chlorinated polyethylene.

## Abstract
A chlorinated polyethylene elastomer or resin is modified by graft copolymerization with acrylic ester type of mono meric material, whose homopolymer has a glass transition temperature of not greater than 6 C, in an amount sufficient to provide an ester group COO content of from 25 to 40 by weight, to yield a mixed copolymerizate vulcanizable to a heat and oil resistant elastomeric state.

## Claims
What is claimed is 1. A mixed copolymerizate vulcanizable to an elastomeric state in which it has heat and oil resistance, characterized in that it comprises A a chlorinated polyethylene polymer spine and B acrylic ester type monomeric material graft copolymerized in the presence of A in an amount sufficient to provide an ester group content COO in the mixed copolymerizate of from 25 to 40 by weight. 2. A mixed copolymer1zate as in claim 1 in which B comprises monomeric material whose homopolymer has a glass transition temperature not greater than 6 C 3. A mixed copolymerizate vulcanizable to an elastomeric state in which it has heat and oil resistance, characterized in that it comprises A a spine polymer which is a chlorinated polyethylene containing from 15 to 50 chlorine by weight B acrylic ester type monomeric material in an amount sufficient to provide an ester group COO content in the mixed copolymerizate of from 25 to O by weight comprising a alkyl acrylate monomeric material made up of one or more lower alkyl acrylate monomers in which the alkyl group has from 1 to 4 carbon atoms b O to 20 parts, per 100 parts by weight of lower alkyl acrylate a , of a higher alkyl acrylate or meth acrylate monomer in which the alkyl group has from 5 to 12 carbon atoms and C O to 15 parts, per 100 parts by weight of the spine CA , of at least one additional different ethylenically unsaturated monomer which serves to enhance the vul canizability of the copolymerizate, the said B and C being graft copolymerized in the presence of the spine polymer A . 4. A mixed copolymerizate as in claim 3 in a yulcanized, elastomeric state. 5. A mixed copolymerizate as in claim 3 in which the amount of b 9 from 2 to 15 parts per 100 parts by weight of a and the amount of C is from 2 to 10 parts per 100 parts by weight of A . 6. A mixed copolymerizate as in claim 5 in which C is selected from the group consisting of methoxyethyl acrylate, ethoxyethyl acrylate, n butoxyethyl acrylate, butoxyethoxylethyl acrylate, glycidyl acrylate, furfuryl acrylate, tetrahydrofurfuryl acrylate, phenoxyethyl acrylate, N,N dimethylaninoethyl acrylate, N,N diethylaminoethyl acrylate, 2 chloroethyl acrylate, 3 chloroethyl acrylate, 2cyanoethyl acrylate, alkyl acrylate, metallyl acrilate, the methacrylate analogs of the aforementioned acrylates, allyl glycidyl ether, allyl maleate, allyl fumarate, allyl phthalate, butadiene , isoprene, 4 vinylcylohexane, di cyclopentadiene, ethylene norbornene, l, 4 hexadiene, 1,5 bexadiene, vinyl acetate, 2 chloroethyl vinyl ether, vinyl benzyl chloride, vinyl alpha chloroacetate, and acrylic acid. 7. A mixed copolymerizate as in claim 1 or 6 in which a comprises methyl acrylate. 8. A mixed copolymerizate as in claim l or 6 in which a comprises ethyl acrylate. 9. A mixed copolymerizate as in claim 1 or 6 in which a comprises butyl acrylate. 10. A mixed copolymerizate as in claim 1 or 6 in which a comprises a mixture of methyl acrylate with ethyl or butyl acrylate. 11. A mixed copolymerizate as in claim 1 or 6 in which b is 2 ethylhexyl acrylate. 12. A mixed copolymerizate as in claim 1 or 6 in which C is ethoxyethyl acrylate. 13. A mixed copolymerizate as in claim 1 or 6 in which C is vinyl acetate. 14. A mixed copolymerizate as in claim or 6 in which C is etboxyethyl acrylate and allyl glycidyl either. 15. A mixed copolymerizate as in claims 6 or 11 in which C is vinyl acetate and allyl glycidyl ether. 16. A mixed copolymerizate as in claims 1 or 6 in which C is vinylbenzyl chloride and 2 chloroethyl vinyl ether.

## Description
ELASTOMER WITH IMPROVED HEAT AND OIL RESISTANCE BASED ON MODIFIED CHLORINATED POLYETHYLENE This invention pertains to chlorinated polyethylene that has been modified by graft polymerization with acrylic ester type monomeric material to provide an improved elastomer. The invention is especially directed to elastomers, which when properly compounded and vulcanized, are charac terlzed by superior resistance to the deteriorating effects of exposure to high temperature and to oil. More particularly this invention relates to ne vulcanizable elastomers which are mixed polymerizates of A a spine which is a chlorinated polyethylene polymer and, B acrylic ester type monomeric material graft copolymerized in the presence of A . Optionally, there may also be graft copolymerized in the presence of A and B a small amount of C different additional ethylenically unsaturated monomeric material which serves to enhance the vulcanizability of the copolymerizate. There is a need for a rubber which has a wlde range of service temperatures, for example, over the range of 250F to 3500F. Conventional butadiene acrylonitrile, epichlorohydrin and chlorosulfonated polyethylene rubbers have good to moderate oil swell properties but their maximum servlce temperatures are generally under 300 F. Ever rising temperatures under the hoods of automotive vehicles and other developments in the mechanical goods field have created a demand for more satisfactory high temperature and oil resistant rubbers.Acrylate rubbers have these properties but their low temperature flexibility is poor and processing is often difficult compression set an important property for seals and mechanical goods of acrylate rubbers is often too high Certain known rubbers made by free radical high temperature and high pressure copolymerization of ethylene and methyl acrylate with small amounts of acrylic acid have good high temperature resistance up to 3500F and oil swell resistance 6Op volume swell when immersed for 3 days in ASTM No. 3 oil at 3000F , but the usefulness of these products is known to be limited because of their low viscosity, low green strength, as well as stickiness on the mill and tendency to stick in the mold thus making demolding difficult.The present invention is concerned with ameliorating the disadvantages of the various just described prior art specialty rubbers. U. S. Patent 3,622,652, Hamed et al., Nov. 23, 1971, discloses grafting of certain acrylates and methacrylates onto olefin copolymer rubbers, but not chlorinated polyethylene and the proportion of acrylates is far below that employed in the present invention. U. S. Patent 3,981,958, Nakashlma et al., Sept. 21, 1976, discloses grafts on spines other than chlorinated polyethylene of methacrylic ester moleties, particularly lower alkyl methacrylates which have a higher glass transition temperature than materials employed in the present invention. U. S. Patent 4,066,590, Eldred et al., Jan. 3, 1978, discloses olefin copolymer rubber compositins with in proved heat and oil resistance made by vulcanizing in a mold a mixture of the rubber with 10 35 phr of one of the following a trimethylolpropane trimethacrylate b polyethylene glycol dimethacrylate c ethylene glycol dimethacrylate or d triallylcyanurate plus 6 phr of halogenated organic compound, plus10 25 phr zinc oxide, plus peroxide. The present entirely different composition is concerned with higher levels of ester content. At the present stage of the art, speclalty rubbers are being increasingly subjected to the two prlncipal parameters of heat aging and fluid attack in many applications. In the automotive field, underhood temperatures now average over 1200C resulting in the loss of physical properties of such components as tubing, seals, hoses, diaphrams, and the like. New Suel blends with higher contents of aromatic constituents further contribute to the degradation of physical propertles of these components.Thus there is a need for specialty rubbers which will be serviceable in air and or in contact with hydrocarbon olls at temperatures from 250 to 1800C. Rubbery polymerizates of this invention are capable of meeting these performance requirements. In one aspect, the concept of the rubbery polymer zate of this invention resides in the findlng.that it is possible to combine the inherent oil and heat resistance of alkyl acrylate rubbers with the low temperature properties of chlorinated polyethylene polymer in spite of the fact that these two types of polymers are not compatible with each other. It has now been found that it is possible to form rubbery polymerizates by graft copolymerizing, onto A a chlorinated polyethylene spine one or more acrylic monomers B as herein described, in an amount which is sufficient to provide an optimum degree of compatibility between the chlorinated polyethylene polymer and the acryllic polymer or copolymers which are formed simultaneously.The acrylic ester monomer or monomers B are selected in such proportions that the ester group COO content of the total copolymerlzate is in the range of a minimum of 25 by weight to a maximum of 40 by weight. Accordingly, in more detail, the invention is in one aspect directed to a mixed copolymerizate vulcanizable to an elastomeric state characterized by heat and oil resistance, comprising, by weight A a polymer spine which is chlorinated polyethylene B acrylic ester type monomeric material in an amount sufficient to provide an ester group COO content in the mixed copolymerizate of from 25 to 40 by weight comprising a alkyl acrylate monomeric material made up of one or more lower alkyl acrylate monomers in which the alkyl group has from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, and b O to 20 parts, per 100 parts by weight of lower alkyl acrylate a , of a higher alkyl acrylate or meth acrylate monomer in which the alkyl group has from 5 to 12 carbon atoms and C O to 15 parts, per 100 parts by weight of poly mer spine A , of at least one additional different ethylenically unsaturated monomer which serves to enhance the vulcanizatibily of the copolymerizate, the said B and C being graft copolymerized in the presence of the rubber spine A . Examples of such modifying monomers C are vinyl acetate, methacrylic acid and chloroethyl vinyl ether which are remarkably effective in amounts up to 15 parts per 100 parts by weight of spine polymer A , as well as allyl glycidyl ether which gives outstanding results in amounts of 2 to 10 parts per 100 parts by weight of A . The chlorinated polyethylene employed as the spine polymer A in preparing the graft copolymer composition of the invention Isone whose degree of chlorination, i.e., chlorine content, is 15 50 by weight, and preferably 20 45 by weight. Such chlorinated polyethylenes are characterized as either elastomeric or resinous materials. The acrylic ester type monomeric material B which is graft copolymerized on the polymer spine A to maRe the mixed copolymerizate of the invention is based on monomers whose homopolymers have a relatively low glass transition temperature Tg , that is, a Tg not greater than 60C, as represented by one or more alkyl acrylate esters. Ordinarily the acrylic material B is made up of at least one lower alkyl acrylate a in which the alkyl group has from 1 to 4 carbon atoms and optionally from 0 to 20 parts per 100 parts by weight of lower alkyl acrylate a of a high er alkyl acrylate or methacrylate monomer b in which the alkyl group has from 5 to 12, preferably 5 to 8, carbon atoms. In some cases a is a mixture of methyl acrylate with another lower alkyl acrylate whose homopolymer has aTg of less than 0 C. Furthermore, the higher the proportion of acrylate used, the higher will be the oil resistance of the compounded and curea mixed copolymerizate. In ttis respect, methyl acrylate, at the same equivalent weight, provides the highest oil resistance of the C1 to Ca alkyl acrylates.However, at very high proportions of methyl acrylate, the mixed copolymerizate ill tend to become leather like at room temperature This lack of low temperature flexibility can be overcome by the inclusion of an appropriate amount of a slightly higher i.e., C2 to C42alkyl acrylate which not only supplles low temperature flexibility but also enhances oil resistance of the vulcanized mixed graft Co polymerizate. It is to be noted that the oil resistance of the graft copolymer vulcanizates depend on the grafted monomer in the order of methyl acrylate ethyl acrylate propyl acrylate butyl acrylate. Thus, exemplary of the C1 C4 alkyl acrylates that are used singly or in admixture in monomeric component a are Tg of Homopolymer, C methyl acrylate 6 ethyl acrylate 24 propyl acrylate 45 n butyl acrylate 55 sec butyl acrylate 20 isobutyl acrylate 83 tert butyl acrylate 22 It is to be noted that in the above series of acrylates, the larger the alkyl group, the lower the resistance to oils and therefore the lower the amount of that comonomer which can ordinarily be used in order to maintain a given level of oil resistance. Certain other acrylic type esters may be used as the optional component b in minor amount, i.e., up to 20 parts or more, usually at least 2 parts, preferably 2 to 15 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of a along with the aforementioned C1 Ch alkyl acrylates. These can be, as indicated above, C5 to C12 preferably C5 to C8, or higher alkyl acrylates, alkyl methacrylates, or mixtures thereof. Exemplary of the C5 C12 or higher alkyl acrylates used in component b are 3 pentyl acrylate, 3 methylbutyl acrylate, 2 methylbutyl acrylate, 3 methylbutyl acrylate, 2 methylpentyl acrylate, 2 ethylbutyl acrylate, 4 methyl 2 pentyl acrylate, n heptyl acrylate, 2 heptyl acrylate, n octyl acrylate, 2 octyl acrylate, 2 ethylhexyl acrylate, n nonyl acrylate, 5 ethyl 2 nonyl acrylate, and the meth acrylate analogues of the aforementioned acrylates. Ordinarily the amount of lower alkyl acrylate mater lal a fal ls within the range of from 80 to 300 parts, while the amount of higher alkyl acrylate or methacrylate material b frequently falls xTithin the range of from 0 to 20 parts, per 100 parts by weight of A The grafting monomer or monomer mixture preferably further contains a minor amount, i.e , up to 15 parts or more, usually at least 2 parts, preferably 2 to 10 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of polymer spine A , of at least one different additional ethylenically unsaturated monomer C which, during the grafting reaction, is believed to be incorporated into the polyacrylic side chains and functions to provide vulcanization sites for the subsequent cure of the rubbery graft copolymerizate. Exemplary of these ethylenically unsaturated monomers C there may be mentioned i monomers containing a hydrogen atom in an alpha position to an aliphatic ether oxygen as exemplified by allyl glycidyl ether, vinyl ethyl ether, vinyl propyl ether, vinyl butyl ether in addition to the alkoxyalkyl acrylates such as methoxymethyl acrylate, methoxyethyl acrylate, ethoxyethyl acrylate, n butoxyethyl acrylate, ethoxypropyl acrylate, and the like, or such monomers as acrylates containing functional groups as exemplified by glycidyl acrylate, furfuryl acrylate, tetrahydrofurfuryl acrylate, N,N dimethylaminoethyl acrylate, N,N diethylaminoethyl acrylate, 2 cyanoethyl acrylate, allyl acrylate and methacrylate analogues thereof. ii monomers containing a hydrogen atom in an alpha position to a carbonyl group as exemplified by vinyl acetate, methyl vinyl ketone, dimethyl. fumarate, diethyl fumarate, diethyl maleate, dipropyl maleate, and the like. Ciii monomers containing a benzylflc hydrogen as ex emplified by benzyl acrylate, 2 phenyl ethyl acrylate and beta phenoxyethyl acrylate iv monomers containing an active halogen, wherein the halogen may be chlorine, bromine or iodine and may be of either one of two types, namely halogen containdng vi nylidene hydrocarbons or halogen containing vinyl monomers having the halogen group at least 2 carbon atoms removed from an oxygen atom. Exemplary of halogen containing vinylidene hydrocarbons are allyl chloride, methallyl chloride, vinyl chloride, vinylidene chloride, vinyl benzyl chloride, vinyl benzyl bromide, 5 chloromethyl 2 norbornene. 5 bromomethyl2 norbornene, 5 beta chloroethyl 2 norbornene, and the like.The second type of monomer, i.e., those having the halogen group at least 2 carbon atoms removed from an oxygen atom, are characterized by having either 0 , ketoneEMI7.1 or esterEMI7.2 structures in the monomer where the halogen group is at least 2 carbon atoms and up to 6 or more carbon atoms removed from an oxygen atom.Examples of these monomers are halogen containing vinyl esters such as vinyl chloroacetate, vinyl bromoacetate, allyl chloroacetate, vinyl 3 chloropropionate, vinyl 4 chlorobutyrate, vinyl 4 bromobutyrate, and the like halogen containing acrylates such as 2 chloroethyl acrylate, 3 chloropropyl acrylate, 4 chlorobutyl acrylate, 2 chloroethyl methacrylate, 2 bromoethyl acrylate, 2 iodoethyl acrylate, 4 chloro 2 butenyl acrylate, 2chloroacetoxyethyl acrylate and methacrylate, and the like halogen containing vinyl ethers such as 2 chloroethyl vinyl ether, halogen containing vinyl ketones such as chloromethyl vinyl ketone, 2 chloroethyl vinyl ketone, and the like and 5 chloroacetoxymethyl 2 norbornene, 5 alpha, beta dichloropropionylmethyl 2 norbornene, and the like. The more preferred halogen containing monomers are vinyl benzyl chloride, 5 chloromethyl 2 norbornene, vinyl chloroacetate, 2 chloroethyl acrylate, and 5 alpha chloro acetoxymethyl 2 norbornene, Due to availability and cost, the chlorine containing monomers are preferred. v monomers containing carboxyl groups as exempllfied by C Cf alkyl methacrylic acids, acrylic acid, mono 5 alkyl esters of fumaric acid as exemplified by ethyl hydrogen maleate, methyl hydrogen fumarate, and cinnamic acid and the like. Preferred monomers C for enhancing the vulcanizability of the graft copolymerizate are those selected from the group consisting of methoxyethyl acrylate, ethoxyethyl acrylate, n butoxyethyl acrylate, butoxyethoxyethyl acrylate, glycidyl acrylate, furfuryl acrylate, tetrahydrofurfuryl acrylate, phenoxyethyl acrylate, N,N dimethylaminoethyl acrylate, N,N diethylaminoethyl acrylate, 2 chloroethyl acrylate, 3 chloroethyl acrylate, 2 cyanoethyl acrylate, alkyl acrylate, methallyl acrylate, the methacrylate analogs of the aforementioned acrylates, allyl glycidyl ether, allyl maleate, allyl fumarate, allyl phtalate, butadiene, isopropene, 4 vinylcycloxexene, dicyclopentadiene, ethylidene norbornene, 1,4 hexadiene, 1,5 hexadiene, vinyl acetate, 2 chloroethyl vinyl ether, vinyl benzyl chloride, vinyl alpha chloroacetate, and acrylic acid. As stated above, the mixed copolymerizates of the invention are made by polymerizing the monomer or monomer mixture B and, optionally, C , in the presence of the chlorinated polyethylene CA with the result that a part of the newly polymerized monomers of the monomeric mix tures are believed to be attached to the spine polymer molecules. Any suitable conventional graft polymerization method may be used for making the mixed polymertzate of this invention, for example, as described in U. S. Patents 3,489,821 Witt et alkyl Jan. 13, 1970 3,489,822, Witt et al., Jan. 13, 1970 3,642,950 O Shea, Feb. 15, 1972 or 3,819,765, OwShea, Jan. 25, 1974.Other methods of making the mixed copolymerizate may be used, for example, irradiation of the spine polymer with high energy electromagnetic or particulate radiation gamma rays, beta rays, neutron rays, etc. and simultaneously or subsequently contacting the polymer with the monomer or monomeric mixture. The graft copolymer coniposition of the invention resulting from polymerization of the monomer gr monomer mix ture B , or B and CC , in the presence of the chlorinated polyethylene spine A as described herein is remarkable for its good processing characteristics. It can be milled and extruded, and otherwise processed like a conventional rubber.It is most useful for making crosslinked or vulcanized articles, and for this purpose it may be com. pounded with various conventional rubber compounding In gredients, including fillers such as carbon black, silica, etc., vulcanizing or cross linking agents, notably peroxides and those co agents normally included to assist in peroxide vulcanization, plasticizers, antioxidants, etc., all in suitable conventional amounts.Vulcanization may be carried out as in ordinary practice for rubber goods, the time and temperature of vulcanization being generally inversely related and being dependent on such factors as the kind and amount of curlng agent, the presence or absence of co curing agents or activating substances, the size and shape of the article being manufactured, the character of the heating device, and other variables whose effects are well understood in the art. Exemplary of coagents that are used to assist in the peroxide vulcanization of the mixed copolymerizates of this invention are triallylisocyanurate, trlallylcyanurate, N,N m phenylene dimaleimide, ethyleneglycoldimethacrylate, 1,3 butylideneglycoldimethacrylate, trimethylolpropane trimethacrylate, trimethylolpropane triacrylate, triallylmellitate, and the like. Conventional plasticizers or softeners may be used as one of the compounding ingredients for the mixed copoly merizates of this inventlon. The type of plasticizer that is used should be compatible with either the rubbery spine, the ungrafted polyacrylate or preferably both the spine and the polyacrylate. Preferably, the plasticizer should have a freezing point not higher than about 150C with a flash point of at least 1750C for most applications requiring exposures to elevated temperatures for extended periods of time. The plasticizers that may be used in the polymerizates ofthis invention are preferably those of the polyester type as typified by Paraplex G 25 trademark , ParaplexG 62 trademark and the like. The stabilizers that may be used in conjunction with the peroxide cure of the rubbery polymerizates of this in vention are those types of stabilizers that do not interfere with the peroxide cross linking reaction The types of stabilizers may iniclude the phenolic and gamine type which are well known in the art. Exemplary peroxide type vulcanizing agents that may be used for crosslinking the rubbery polymerizates of this invention include dicumyl peroxide, 1,3 bis tert butylperoxyisopropyl benzene, 2,5 dimethyl 2,5 di tertbutylperoxy hexane, 2,5 dimetyl 2,5 di tert butyl peroxy hexyne 3, n butyl 4,4 bis tert butylperoxy valerate, ditert butyl peroxide, tert butyl perbenzoate, 2,5 dimethyl 2,5 bis benzoylperoxy hexane, l,l bisCtert butylperoxy 3,3,5 trimethyl cyclohexane, and alpha, alpha bis tertbutylperoxy diisopropylbenzene. The peroxide cure is preferred since it provides cured vulcanizates that have superior heat aging characteristics. Combined curatives such as peroxide and diamine or peroxide and sulfur are also of interest depending upon the choice of monomer which is present in a minor amount. The crosslinked or vulcanized, rubbery, copolymerizates of this invention, with varying fillers, typically exhibit a volume swell of about 15 to t0 when expose toASTM num 3 oil for 70 hours at 3000F as measured in accordance with ASTM D 471 75 remover, these elastomers exhabit excellent aging of such physical properties as modulus at 100 eZongation, tensile strength and elongation at break upon exposure to air for 3 days at 3300F as well as exposure to air for 3 days at 3500F. A typical polymerization recipe used in this invention employs a chlorinated polyethylenefnethyl acrylate ethyl acrylate or a chlorinated polyethylene methyl..acryl ate ethyl acrylatefethoxyethyl acrylate allyl glycidyl ether in the ratio of 100 120 80 or 100 120 80 8 4. The methyl acrylate ethyl acrylate is determined largely by the need to achieve a combination of good oil swell resistance and good low temperature properties. The following example will serve to illustrate the practice of the invention in more detail. EXAMPLE A series of graft copolymerizates are prepared, using the polymerization formulas shown in Table I, Parts A, B and C, below, wherein the quantities are expressed in parts by eight. In Table I, CPE 3614 trademark is chlorinated polyethylene having a chlorine content of 35 by weight and a melt viscosity poise 1000 of 21. Methocel K4M trademark is hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, mol. wt. 56,000.Methocel K100 trademark is hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, mol. wt. 26,000. CMD 0136 trademark is chlorinated polyethylene elastomer having a chlorine content of 36 . Lupersol 10 trademark is t butylperoxy neodecanoate. Lu person 11 trademark is t butylperoxy pivalate. The procedure invlving the use of chlorined polyethylene CS. 0136 in crumb form i 4 inch mesh size is as follows To a pressure reactor equipped with a stirrer is charged water, CM 0136, Methocel K 100 or Methocel K 4M as 2 aqueous solutions and sodium nltrite with stirring at room temperature.To the reactor is then added methyl acrylate, ethyl acrylate, ethoxyethyl acrylate, allyl glycidyl ether or other unsaturated monomers, cyclohexane and Lupersol 10 or 11 , all of the components having been premixed prior to addition to the reactor. The reaction mixture is then heated to 115D 1200F for two hours with stirring soak time to allow the chlorinated polyethylene to absorb the monomer mixture. The reaction mixture is then polymerized by raising the temperature to 1750 for 3 hours with continued stirring after which the reaction zix ture is cooled to room temperature, drained and washed with water followed by drying at about 1200 1500F in an air oven for two days. A similar procedure as described above is used whenCM 0136 elastomer in powder form is employed except that no sodium nitrite is incorporated into the reactor in the initial charge and no cyclohexane is required in the premix with the various monomers and Lupersol 11 which are then added to the reactor. Further, no soak time is re quired. The polymerization temperature and time of reac tion,cooling of. the reaction mixture to room temperature followed by draining, washing and drying are carried out as previously described. Table II, Parts A, B and C, compound recipes employing the graft polymers from Table I, along with the various compounding ingredients, d.e., filler, plasticizer, stabilizer and curing agent, in the respective recipes expressed in parts by weight. In Table II, Paraplex G 25 trademark is a high molecular weight polyester, sp. gr. 1.06, viscosity at 250C about 2200 poises. Santicizer 79T15 trademark is a high molecular weight trimellitate ester. Paraplex G 62 trademark is a soybean oil epoxide. Naugard Q trademark is polymerized 1,2 dihydro 2,2,4 trimethylquinoline.TAIC stands for triallyisocyanurate. SR351 trademark is triallyl trimethylolpropane. Acrawax C trademark isN,N ethylene bis stearamide . TAC stands for triallyl cyanurate. Age Rite White trademark is symmetrlcal dibeta naphtyl p phenylenediamine. DiCup 40E trademark is dicumyl peroxide on clay, peroxide content 39.5 to 41.5 .Percadox 17 40 trademark is a 40 n buty7 4,4 bistt butylperoxy valerate. These vulcanizable formulations are mixed in conventional rubber equipment employing the upside down technique for mixing in the Banbury, a method well known in the art of rubber technology, with the stock temperature not exceeding 220 F. Total time of mixing is 5 minutes. The mix is then transferred to a two roll rubber mill for blending and then is sheeted off for curing in a mold under pressure at 320 F for the times as shown inTable II. Table III, Parts A, B and C, shows the physical properties of the resulting vulcanizates, unaged and aged, determined according to the following ASTM test procedures Shore A hardness ASTM D 2240 75 Tense strength, psi ASTM D 412 75 100 modulus, psi ASTM D 412 75 200 modulus, psi ASTM D 412 75 Elongation, ASTM D 412 75 Stiffness Torsional modulus Gehman T10 and T100 ASTM D 1053 73 As judged from the data in Table III the vulcanized rubber copolymerizates of this invention exhibit excellent air aging data with respect to such physical properties as modulus at 100 elongation, tensile strength and elongation at break after exposure to air for 70 hours at 3300F as well as exposure to air for 70 hours at 3500F. It is further noted that all formulations exhibit a volume swell after 70 hours at 3000F in ASTM num 3 oil varying from 23 to 36 as measured in accordance with ASTMD 471 75. The vulcanizates also show excellent low temperature flexibility properties as well as moderately low compression set after 70 hours at 3000F. Thus, it can be seen that the graft copolymerizates of the instant invention exhibit significantly improved heat and oil resistance in addition to possessing good low temperature flexibility over rubbers which are available in the commercial market today. Table I Part A Graft Copolymerization Formulas Run, 1 2 3 14 Reactor Size, Gal. 10 150 10 10Water 450 450 450 450Cyclohexane 10 10 10 10CPE 36114 Methocel K4MMethocel K100 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.03CMO 0136 crumb 50 50 50 50CMO 0136 powder Sodium nitrite 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1Methyl acrylate 60 60 60 60Ethyl acrylate 40 40 40 40Allyl chlorideEthoxyethyl acrylate 14 4 Allyl glycidyl ether 2 2 6Lupersol 10Lupersol 11 3 3 6 3Temp. of soak, F. 110 115 108 108 120Time of soak, hr 2 2 3 2Polymerization temp DF. 160 175 158 160Polymerization time, hr. 4 3 4 4Yield, 100 100 99 98 Table I Part B Graft Copolymerization Formulas Contsd Run 5 6 7 8Reactor Size, Gal. 10 150 150 5Water 450 450 450 450CyclohexaneCPE 3614Methocel K4M Nethocel K100 0.01 0.0015 0.002 CMO 0136 crumb 50 50CMO 0136 powder 50 50Sodium nitrite 0.1 Methyl acrylate 60 60 62 60Ethyl acrylate 40 40 42 40Allyl chloride Ethoxyethyl acrylate 4 4 14 Allyl glycldyl ether 2 2Lupersol 10 6Lupersol 11 3 3 3 Temp. of soak, OF. 120 108Time of soak, hr. 2 3Polymerization temp F. 180 185 175 175 158Polymerization time, hr. 3 3 3 14 Yield, 96 98 99 96 Table I Part C Graft Copolymerisation Formulas Cond t Run 9 10 11Reactor Size, Gal. 5 10 10Water 450 350 450Cyclohexane 10 10 5CPE 3614 50 Methocel K4M 0.15 Nethocel K100 0.05 0.02CMO 0136 crumb 50 50CMO 0136 powder Sodium nitrite 0.1 0.1 0.1Methyl acrylate 60 60 60Ethyl acrylate 40 40 40Allyl chloride 4Ethoxyethyl acrylate 4 4 4Allyl glycidyl ether 2 2 Lupersol 10Lupersol 11 6 6 3Temp. of soak, OF, 108 108 120Time of soak, hr. 2 3 2Polymerization temp F. 148 158 175 Polymerization time, hr. 4 4 2 Yeld, 99 99 96 Table II Part A Compound Recipes Run 1 2 3 4Graft polymer 100 100 100 100SRF carbon black 70 70 70 80 FEP carbon blackMagnesium oxide 10 5 5 10Paraplex G 25 10 10 10 10Santicizer 79TM 10 5 5 Paraplex G 62Naugard Q 2 2 2 2TAIC 2 2 2 2SR351Acrawax CTACAge Rite WhiteAntimony trioxide 5 5 5 5DiCup 4OKE 4 4 4 4Percadox 17 40 4 3 3 2Cure conditionsTemp, OF. 320 320 320 320Time, min. 60 60 60 60 Table II Part B Compound Recipes Cont d. Run 5 6 7 8Graft polymer 100 100 100 100SRF carbon black 70 70 80FEF carbon black 70 Magnesium oxide 5 10 5 10Paraplex 0 25 10 10 10 20Santiciser 79TM 10 10 10 Paraplex G 62 Naugard Q 2 2 2 1TAIC 2 SR351 2Acrawax C 1 TAC 2 2 Age Rite White 1 Antlmony trioxide 5 5 10 DiCup 40KE 4 4 4 4Percadox 17 40 4 4 . 4 4Cure conditionsTemp, F. 320 320 320 320Time, min. 60 60 40 20 Table II Part C Compound Recipes Conttd., Run 9 10 11Graft polymer 100 100 100SRF carbon black 80 70 70FEF carbon blackMagnesium oxide 10 5 5Paraplex G 25 5 10 10Santicizer 79TM 10 10Paraplex G 62 15 Naugard Q 1.5 2 2TAIC 2 2SR351 4 Acrawax TAC Age Rite White Antimony trioxide 5 5DiCup 40KE 4 4 4Percadox 17 40 4 2Cure conditionsTemp, F. 320 320 320Time, min. 60 60 60 Table III Part A Vulcanizate Properties Run 1 2 3 4UnagedTensile, psl 1180 1290 1330 1310 100 Modulus, psi 520 610 620 930 Elongation 270 280 250 210Hardness, Shore A 70 72 75 86Tear Die C , pli 116 132 131 159Gehman, T100 C 33 27 22 17Compression set after 70 hours at 300 F. 52 63 57 66 Swell, ASTM num 3 oil after 70 hours at 3000F 35 28 31 36Aged 70 hrs at 3300FTensile, psi 1630 1940 1840 2010 100 Modulus, psi 1430 1830 1660 Elongation 160 130 150 100Hardness, Shore A 92 90 93 90Aged 70 hrs. at 3500FTensile, psi 1790 1670 1910 100 Modulus, psi 1720 1560 1800 Elongation 110 120 120 Hardness, Shore A 93 89 94 Table III Part B Vulcanizate Properties Conttd, Run 5 6 7 8UnagedTensile, psi 1200 1370 1350 1140 100 Modulus, psi 440 540 490 720 Elongation 280 280 310 240Hardness, Shore A 70 75 74 71Tear Die C , pli 125 142 119 160Gehman, T100 C 30 18 24Compression set after 70 hours at 300 F. 53 53 54 Swell, ASTM num 3 oil after 70 hours at 3000F 37 23 24 30Aged 70 hrs. at 3300FTenslle, psi 1580 1950 1710 1790 100 Modulus, psi 1260 1770 1610 1680 Elongation 170 140 120 120Hardness, Shore A 87 92 89 92Aged 70 hrs. at 3500FTensile, psi 1600 100 Modulus, psi 1600 Elongation 110 Hardness, Shore A 90 Aging temp. 320 F Table III Part C Vulcanizate Properties Cont d. Run 9 10 11UnagedTensile, psi 1010 1120 950 100 Modulus, psi 600 320 300 Elongation 230 330 260Hardness, Shore A 7 64 67Tear Die C , pli 188 140 110Gehman, TlOO tC Compression set after 70 hours at 3000F. 56 65X Swell, ASTM num 3 oil after 70 hours at 300 F 35 25 26Aged 70 hrs. at 3300FTensile, psl 1550 1260 1600 100 Modulus, psl 1400 820 1420 Elongation 130 240 180Hardness, Shore A 90 83 90Aged 70 hrs. at 350 FTensile, psi 1610 100 Modulus, psi 1590 Elongation 130Hardness, Shore A 93 Aging temp. 320 F