# PROCESS FOR PRODUCTION OF PYRROLO QUINOLINE QUINONE

## Claims
Ein Verfahren zur Herstellung von Pyrrolochinolin Chinon, bei dem man

## Description
The present invention relates to a process for the microbial production of pyrrolo quinoline quinone hereinafter referred to as PQQ . PQQ has the following formula and can be reversibly reduced to a reduced type PQQ PQQH₂ having the following formula On the basis of this property, PQQ has an ability to convert apo type quinoenzymes to the holo type thereof. For example, PQQ acts as a coenzyme for methanol dehydrogenase in methanol utilizing bacteria, alcohol dehydrogenase, aldehyde dehydrogenase, glycerol dehydrogenase, glucoce dehydrogenase, or the like in acetic acid bacteria. PQQ is also physiologically important as a coenzyme for copper containing amine oxidase of animal, plant or microbial origin, amine dehydrogenase or choline dehydrogenase, or other various kinds of oxidoreductases which are inhibited by carbonyl reagents. Moreover, PQQ may be a very important substance having vitamin actions because it acts as a coenzyme for important enzymes as described above, taking as an analogy the fact that coenzymes for other oxidoreductases and transferases, such as thiamine pyrrophosphate, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate, pyridoxal phosphate, flavin adenine dinucleotide, and flavin mononucleotide have to be taken in as vitamin, such as vitamin B₁ , nicotinic acid, vitamin B₆ , and vitamin B₂ , respectively. On the basis of the above mentioned physiological importance, PQQ is useful for pharmaceutical purposes. Conventionally, for the production of PQQ, chemical synthetic processes are known see, for example, To overcome the above mentioned disadvantages of the chemical synthetic processes, there has been presented a biological process for the production of PQQ wherein cells of a microorganism are cultured in a medium to accumulate PQQ and related compounds, and the accumulated PQQ is recovered by, for example, extraction with solvents see Japanese Unexamined Patent Application Kokai No. 59 113896 published on June 30, 1984 , or simple chromatographic method on ionexchangers see, for example, Therefore, a new process for the production of PQQ, which is more practical and economical, is desired. The present invention provides a new process for the production of PQQ comprising culturing There is also provided a process for the production of PQQ comprising culturing the above mentioned bacterium in a culture medium, to form cultured cells, separating the cells from the cultured broth, resuspending the separated cells in a reaction medium containing precursors of the pyrrolo quinoline quinone, incubating the reaction medium to produce the pyrrolo quinoline quinone, and recovering the pyrrolo quinoline quinone from the reaction medium. Figure 1 is a calibration chart showing the relationship between an amount of PQQ and a difference of absorption per minute at 600 nm as measured by using a membrane of 0.16 mg as protein ΔOD600 min. 0.16 mg . With reference to a preferred embodiment the bacterium The properties of the newly isolated bacterium are set forth in the following tables. As can be seen from the tables, On the basis of the above mentioned properties and according to the classification criteria described in Bergey s Manual of Determinative Bacteriology, eight edition, this microorganism is identified as a methanol utilizable bacteria and is different from In one embodiment of the present process, the above mentioned bacterium capable of producing PQQ is cultured in a culture medium. The culture medium is preferably a liquid medium, and contains a carbon source and nitrogen source. The carbon source is, for example, methanol, methylamine, or other substrates from which C₁ compound can be generated biologically. The medium preferably contains methanol as the carbon source at a concentration of 0.1 to 5.0 , preferably 0.5 to 3.0 by weight. All of the methanol may be added to the medium before the start of culturing, or it may be added step by step or continuously during culturing. The nitrogen source includes organic nitrogen sources such as amino acids, nucleic acids, protein hydrolyzates, yeast extract, corn steep liquor, and inorganic nitrogen sources such as ammonium salts, ammonia water, gaseous ammonia, and nitrates. The above mentioned nitrogen sources may be used alone or in combination. The concentration of nitrogen source varies according to the kind of nitrogen source used, and is preferably within 0.05 to 0.5 by weight. The culturing is preferably carried out under the aerobic condition which is accomplished by aeration and agitation of the medium in a fermentor, or by shaking a culture flask containing the medium. The temperature for culturing is generally 0 C to 40 C, preferably 20 C to 35 C. The pH of the medium is generally 2 to 9, preferably 5.5 to 8.0. The culturing time is generally 20 to 150 hours, preferably 50 to 100 hours. In the present embodiment, PQQ is accumulated in the cultured broth. In the second embodiment of the present process, the above mentioned bacterium is cultured in a culture medium, and the cultured cells are separated from the cultured broth. The separated cells are then resuspended in a reaction medium in which PQQ is accumulated. The culture medium is preferably the same as the culture medium described in the first embodiment. The pH and temperature for culturing in the second embodiment are preferably the same as those used in the first embodiment. The culturing time is preferably 5 to 20 hours. The reaction medium contains precursors of PQQ, which comprise at least one carbon source, for example, alcohols such as methanol or ethanol, or sugars such as mannitol, fructose or glucose, and at least one amino acid such as glutamic acid, aspartic acid, alanine, ornithine, tyrosine, and 3,4 dihydroxyphenylalanine DOPA . The concentration of the carbon source is preferably 0.5 to 3.0 by weight, and the concentration of the amino acid is preferably 0.05 to 0.5 by weight. The reaction medium can contain a buffer, such as a phosphate buffer, to maintain the pH within the preferable range. The pH and temperature for the reaction are preferably the same as those used for the culturing. The reaction is carried out under the aerobic condition which is accomplished by aeration and agitation of the reaction medium in a reaction vessel, or by shaking a reaction flask containing the reaction medium. PQQ accumulated in the cultured broth in the first embodiment or in the reaction medium in the second embodiment is recovered by conventional processes such as ion exchange chromatography, gel filtration, solvent extraction, affinity chromatography, or a combination thereof. The assaying of PQQ for coenzyme activity and the assay of a concentration of PQQ produced in the cultured broth or reaction medium, are carried out according to the following method. The method is carried out using an apoenzyme of quinoenzyme, which may be prepared from a mutant of The present invention will now be further illustrated by, but is by no means limited to, the following examples. To 100 ml of a culture medium containing 1 methanol, 0.2 NaNO₃ , 0.2 NH₄ ₂SO₄ , 0.1 K₂HPO₄ , 0.02 MgSO₄ 7H₂O, 0.00005 H₃BO₃ , 0.000004 CuSO₄ 5H₂O, 0.00002 MnSO₄ H₂O, 0.00002 NH₄ ₂MoO₄ , 0.00004 ZnSO₄ 7H₂O, 0.0015 CoCl₂ 2H₂O, 0.004 KCl, and 0.0001 FeSO₄ 7H₂O pH 7.0 in a 500 ml conical flask, cells of To determine the amount of PQQ in the medium, a sample of the medium was obtained at any predetermined time, and centrifuged to obtain a supernatant. The supernatant 0.1 ml was added to 33 micro grams of a cell membrane fraction containing apo D glucose dehydrogenase to obtain 0.11 ml of a mixture, and the mixture was incubated at 30 C for 30 minutes to allow the conversion of the apo D glucose dehydrogegase to the holoenzyme. To the mixture, 1 ml of 50 mM tris hydroxymethyl aminomethane HCl buffer, pH 8.75, containing 24 mM sodium azide, 0.04 ml of 6.7 mM 2,6 dichlorophenolindophenol, and 0.2 ml of 6 mM phenazine methosulfate are added, and topped up with water to the total volume of 2.9 ml. A blank mixture was prepared by the same procedure. Absorbances at 600 nm of the sample mixture and the blank mixture were monitored at 25 C, and it was confirmed that there was no difference between the sample mixture and bland mixture. To the mixture, 0.1 ml of 1 M glucose solution containing 8 mM sodium azide was added, and after the addition, the change of the absorbance was recorded, and the change per minute was calculated. The added glucose was dehydrogenated by holo D glucose dehydrogenase, which has been formed from apo D glucose dehydrogenase and PQQ in the sample, and simultaneously, 2,4 dichlorophenolindophenol present in the reaction mixture was reduced, resulting in a fading of the blue color. Therefore, the extent of the fading, i.e., change of absorption at 600 nm, was correctly proportional to the amount of PQQ in the sample. The concentration of PQQ in the sample was obtained by comparing the change of absorbance with the calibration chart in Fig. 1, which was prepared using a chemically synthesized standard PQQ. The growth of the microorganism was monitored by absorbance at 600 nm of the cultured medium. When the concentration of PQQ in the cultured medium reached the maximum point, the culturing was terminated, and the cultured medium was removed and centrifuged to obtain a supernatant. The supernatant was applied on a DEAE Sephadex A 25 Seikagaku Kogyo, Japan column previously equilibrated with 0.002 M potassium phosphate, pH 7.0, and impurities were eluted with the same buffer containing 0.2 M KCl, and finally, fractions containing PQQ were eluted with the same buffer containing 0.6 M KCl. The combined fraction containing PQQ was subjected to liquid chromatographic analysis under the following condition. The result of the analysis showed be the same retention time 13 minutes for the fraction obtained as above, and for the chemically synthesized PQQ. By repeating the above mentioned chromatography, PQQ was isolated from the fraction, and 325 micrograms of PQQ were obtained. 30 l of a medium having the same composition as described in Example 1 was incorporated in a 50 1 fermentor, and the medium was inoculated with an inoculam containing cells of