# Root lifting device.

## Abstract
A device for lifting tuberous crops or the like, particularly beet, comprising a wheeled frame 1 carrying, viewed in the direction of the movement, in order of succession pairs of digging members 6 for lifting the tubers out of the soil and a conveyor 8 for conducting the dug up tubers away from the digging members 6 and for cleaning the same, in which device behind each pair of digging members 6 located at the side of the front of conveyor 8 , the conveying elements 7 leading to said conveyor 8 are provided, the transverse dimension of which exceeds the dimension in the direction of movement, wherein each conveying element 7 is provided with a sequence of pins travelling along a closed path by which not only the structural length can be minimized but also lifting the tubers out of the soil and cleaning them are performed more effectively.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A device for lifting tuberous crops or the like, particularly beet, comprising a wheeled frame carrying, viewed in the direction of movement, in order of succession pairs of digging members for raising the tubers out of the soil and a conveyor for conducting the dug up tubers away from the digging members and for cleaning the same, whilst behind each pair of digging members located at the side of the front of a conveying element with respect to the direction of movement transverse conveying elements are provided leading to the conveyor and having transverse dimensions which exceed those in the direction of movement, characterized in that each conveying element is provided with a sequence of pins moved along a closed path. 2. A device as claimed in claim 1 characterized in that the pins are fastened to an endless, flexible element which is guided around two reversing members adapted to rotate about upwardly extending axes. 3. A device as claimed in claims 1 and 2, characterized in that the pins have a noncircular cross section and are adjustable about their longitudinal axes with respect to the flexible element. 4. A device as claimed in claim 1 characterized in that the pins are arranged in groups, each group being fastened to an upwardly extending rotatable shaft. 5. A device for lifting tuberous crop or the like, particularly beet, comprising a wheeled frame carrying, viewed in the direction of movement, in order of succession pairs of digging members for raising the tubers out of the soil and a conveyor for conducting the dug up tubers away from the digging members and for cleaning the same, characterized in that the conveyor is formed by a sieve section consisting of an elevator and by an adjoining, rotatable conveyor. 6. A device as claimed in claim 5 characterized in that the elevator is formed by an endless chain belt. 7. A device as claimed in claim 5 or 6, characterized in that the rotatable conveyor is formed by two concentric rims between which are arranged rod like elements extending substantially in a radial direction. 8. A device as claimed in claim 7 characterized in that a stationary grating is arranged above the region enclosed by the inner rim. 9. A device as claimed in anyone of the preceding claims comprising a leaf removing set arranged in front of the digging members with respect to the direction of movement characterized in that the leaf removing set is provided with cutting members aligned to the digging members. 10. A device as claimed in claim 9 characterized in that each cutting member is fastened to a pivotal arm adapted to meve up and down, the pivotal shaft of which is arranged in front of the leaf removing set. 11. A device as claimed in anyone of the preceding claims comprising rotatable members separating the crop and being arranged near the digging members characterized in that the separating members are designed in form of a hub to which spoke like elements are rigidly fastened, said hub being coupled with the driving shaft through an elastic coupling. 12. A device as claimed in claim 11 characterized in that the hub and shaft both have square cross sections, whilst the inner width of the hub is at least equal to the diagonal of the outer circumference of the shaft and in that one or more shock absorbing bodies, preferably of rubber, are arranged between the hub and the shaft. 13. A device as claimed in claim 11 and 12 characterized in that each shocK absorbing body has a cylindrical shape.

## Description
Root lifting device. The invention relates to a device for lifting tuberous crops or the like, particularly beet, comprising a wheeled frame carrying, viewed in the direction of the movement, in order of succession pairs of digging members for lifting the tubers out of the soil and a conveyor for conducting the dug up tubers away from the digging members and for cleaning the same, in which device behind each pair of digging members located at the side of the front of the conveying element with respect to the direction of movement conveying elements leading to said conveyor are provided, the transverse dimension of which exceeds the dimension in the direction of movement. Such a device is described inDutch patent application 7513829. With this know device it is intended to minimize the structural length in order to faciiitate steerability of the device and thus to carry out the lifting operation more economically. The invention has for its object to improve the know device set forth above by additional measures by cJhicil not only the structural length can be minimized but also lifting the tubers out of the soil and cleaning them are performed more effectively. The device is distinguished in that each conveying element is provided with a sequence of pins travelling along a closed path. Said pins are preferably fastened to an endless, flexible element, which is passed around two members adapted to rotate about upwardly extending axes. In this case it may be advantageous to construct the pins with a non circular cross section and to adapt each pin to be mounted so as to be adjustable about its longitudinal axis with respect to the flexible element. In this way the space between adjacent pins can be varied, which may be important for a given kind of tuberous crop to be lifted and for the conditions of the soil. According to the invention the conveyor joining said conveying elements for conducting away the dug up tubers is formed by a sieve section consisting of an elevator and by a subsequent rotatable conveyor. This construction mode results in a particularly short structural length of the lifting device proper. In a preferred embodiment the elevator is formed by an endless chain band, which ensures a particularly satisfactory sieve effect, whilst the rotatable conveyor is constituted by two concentric rims between which rod shaped, radially extending elements are arranged. By arranging a stationary grating in the zone enclosed by the inner rim the earth carried by thg elevator can be conducted away through said grating in the region inside the inner rim of the rotating wheel so that an additional effective removal of earth is performed and the delivered product is cleaner. The invention furthermore proposes to equip a device provided with a haulm remover arranged in front of the digging members, viewed in the direction of the movement, with cutting members aligned to the digging members. In this way the structural length is materially shortened, since it has hitherto been common practice to arrange the cutting members in a seperate attachment, which involved a large structural length. In order to ensure satisfactory matching of each cutting member in a direction of height such a member is fastened to an arm adapted to pivot up and down, the pivotal axis of which is located in front.of the defoliating member. Finally the invention proposes to improve a number of rotatable members disengaging the tubers in the digging members. According to the invention these seperating members are constructed in the form of a plurality of spoke like elements fastened to. a hub, which is connected by an elastic coupling with the driving rotary shaft. This elastic coupling is preferably formed by a rubber element arranging between a square section hub and a square section diving shaft. The invention will be explained more fully by the description of one embodiment. The device shown in figs. 1 to 6 mainly comprises a frame 1 adapted to be moved on four wheels 2 on a field in the direction indicated by the arrow P1. The device is propelled by an engine 3 driving the front wheels of the device, whereas the rear wheels can be steered by the steering wheel near the driver seat 4. From left to right in fig.l the frame 1 carries the following elements a combined stripping and topping device 5, a digging section 6, a transverse conveying section 7 and a longitudinal sieve section 8 and finally on top of the frame 1 there is mounted a bunker 9 for receiving the dug up crop. The leaf stripping section 5 mainly consists of a clapper rotor 51 rotating in the direction indicated by the arrow P2 and serving to strike the leaves from the beet. The seperated leaves arrive in the direction of the arrow P3 at the leaf remover 52, which laterally conducts the leaves away and deposits them in a swath on the soil at the side of the machine. According to the invention the leaf stripper 5 comprises one or more cutting members 53, each of which is adapted to move up and down on a pivotal arm 54. The arm 54 is pivotable about a pivotal shaft 55 at the front of the leaf stripping section 5, so that a long distance is obtained between the cutting member 53 and the pivotal shaft 55 and ample freedom of movement is ensured. On the other hand the overall structural length of the leaf stripping section 5 is appreciably shortened.Moreover the cutting members 53 are arranged at such a small distance from the clapper rotor 51 that the severed parts are carried along by the suction effect of the rotor 51 and conducted away via the conveyor 52. The digging section 6 comprises pairs of digging members 61 described in the above mentionedDutch patent application 7513829. Each pair of digging members raises the beet out of the soil so that it will lie on the surface of the soil, whilst the separating members 62 raise the beet further upwards and transport it to the rear. According to the invention the separating members are formed by a plurality of rod shaped elements 64 radially mounted on a common driving shaft 63 see fig.4 . The rod shaped elements are fastened to a hub 65, which has a square cross section like the driving shaft 63. The diagonal of the outer circumference of the driving shaft 63 is equal to the inner width of the hub 65 so that they can both be turned relatively to one another through an angle of 45 . The remaining space is filled out by cylindrical elements 66 at the corners of the hub 65, said elements being preferably made from an elastic material, for example rubber. The elements 66 prevent the driving shaft 63 from rotating with respect to the hub 65, but they ensure an elastic transmission of the driving forces. In the embodiment shown the separating members are mounted each on an individual hub 65. It will be obvious that as an alternative a common hub may be used along the whole length of the driving shaft 63.The driving gear of the rotary shaft 63 may be constructed in any appropriate manner and does not belong to the scope of this invention. From the plan view of fig.2 it will be apparent that the separating members 62 are disposed between the pairs of digging members 61 as well as between the digging members of a pair. In the embodiment shown the section 7 conveying in a transverse direction is formed by two conveying elements located each behind those digging members which are located at the side of the conveying section 8 in the transport direction. The conveying elements 71 each consist of a sequence of vertically or substantially vertically extending tines moving along a closed path. On the side of the closed path of the vertical tines 71 facing the digging members 61 the beet raised above the soil will be conveyed in the direction indicated by the arrow P4 towards the centre of the device so that all beets arrive at the front df the conveying section 8. In the transverse conveyors 7 the vertically extending tines 71 are fastened to an endless, flexible element 72, which is guided around two reversing elements 73 rotating about a vertical axis. One of the shafts of the reversing elements 73 is driven so that the tines will describe the compulsory path. In a preferred embodiment the tines have a non circular cross section see fig.3 so that the same tines can be mounted in two positions with respect to the flexible element 72 see the difference in mounting on the left and right hand sides of fig.3 .Obviously both the resistance exerted by the soil and the distance between the tines can thus be varied at will. The conveying section 8 is formed by an elevator 81, the front end of which joins the delivery ends of the transverse conveyors 7 and the rear end of which terminates above a rotating wheel 82 of the conveying section. The elevator 81 may be constructed in any way and is formed in the embodiment shown by an endless belt, which preferably constitutes, in addition, a sieve belt in order to carry out a first separation between the crop and the earth. According to the invention the rotating wheel 82 is equipped with an outer rim 83 and a concentric inner rim 84. Between these two rims extend rod like elements 85 substantially in a radial direction, which carry along the tubers in the direction indicated by the arrow P5 see fig.2 and deliver them on a conveying belt 86 lying out of the scope of this invention for transport to the bunker 9. Above the region enclosed by the inner rim 84tea grating 87 is arranged, against which the tubers carried by the elevator 81 are thrown.By this grating an effective cleaning of the tubers is ensured, since the earth is pushed off the tubers as a result of the change in the direction of movement.The loosened earth can drop unhindered through the grating 87 across the region inside the inner rim 84, since only four spokes are arranged between the driving shaft 88 and the inner rim 84 for rotating the wheel around the shaft 88. It will be obvious that the grating 87 may have any shape and can extend through the full region inside the inner rim 84. Figs. 5 and 6 illustrate an alternative embodiment of the transverse conveying element. The pins moved along a closed path are formed in this case by radially directed groups of pins 74s eath group being fastened to an upwardly extending rotatable shaft 75.The shafts are all driven in the same sense by appropriate driving means, in this case a chain 76, so that on the side facing the digging members 61 the pins 74 again perform a conveying operation in the direction of the arrows P4 in fig.5.