# Liquid detergent with sunscreen agent.

## Abstract
A composition comprising a sunscreen agent, a preser vative, and a non ionic detergent, an amphoteric detergent or a mixture thereof in an aqueous vehicle. The sunscreen agent is selected from an aminobenzoic acid, the esters of an aminobenzoic acid, homosalate, cinoxone, and oxybenzone and is present in an amount of not less than about 1 percent by weight of the composition. The method of controlling ultra violet absorption is also disclosed.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A sunscreen detergent comprising a nonionic detergent or an amphoteric detergent or mixtures thereof containing an effective amount of a sunscreen agent therein. 2. The sunscreen detergent of claim 1, wherein said non ionic detergent is an aqueous solution of an addition product of ethylene oxide and a compound with an active hydrogen an ethoxylated phenol, or polysorbate. 3. The sunscreen detergent of claim 1 or 2, wherein said amphoteric detergent is a vegetable oil based compound a coconut oil based compound a coconut based imidazoline compound a sulfate of a long chain hydrocarbon radical having from 7 to 21 carbon atoms or ammonium lauryl ether sulfate. 4. The sunscreen detergent of claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein said detergent includes an amphoteric detergent and further including a preservative. 5. The sunscreen detergent of claim 4, wherein said preservative is a paraben. 6. The sunscreen detergent of claim 5, wherein said preservative is a methyl or propyl paraben present in an amount of about 0.1 percent by weight of the sunscreen detergent. 7. The sunscreen detergent of any of claims 1 to 6, wherein said sunscreen agent is an aminobezoic acid esters of aminobenzoic acid or mix tures thereof cinoxatec oxybenezone 8. The sunscreen aetergent of any of claims 1 to 7, wherein said sunscreen agent is present in an amount not less than about 1 percent by weight of the detergent. 9. The sunscreen detergent of claim 7, wherein the esters of benzoic acid are glyceryl p aminobenoate, padimate A, and padimate 0. 10 The sunscreen adjusting agent of any of claims 1 to 9, including a viscosity adjusting agent. 11. A method of controlling the absorption of ultra violet light by skin exposed to ultraviolet light, comprising providing a non ionic detergent, an amphoteric detergent or mixtures thereof having an effective amount of a sunscreen agent therein, and periodically applying the same to the skin prior to exposure of the skin to the ultra violet light.

## Description
This invention relates to a sunscreen detergent and a method of controlling the absorption of ultra violet light by skin exposed to ultra violet light. Exposure to ultra violet light primarily through exposure to the sun s rays produces a number of harmful effects including premature aging, loss of elasticity, wrinkling, drying, and not least, an increased risk of developing skin cancer. Cutreatly a number of sunscreen and suntan products are marketed to protect against these harmful effects. All of these products contain agents known to filter out some of the sun s harmful rays incorporated into creams, ointments, lotions, solutions or suspensions. Such products are applied just prior to anticipated sun exposure and provide short term protection and are removed by bathing, washing or normal desquamation of skin. We have discovered that such sunscreens can be effectively incorporated into nonionic and amphoteric liquid detergents so that repeated washing and bathing with such detergents leaves a long lasting substantive and effective amount of the incorporated sunscreen in the stratum corneum of the skin. Previous attempts to incorporate sunscreens into soaps have failed because ionic soaps would rapidly degrade the incorporated sunscreen. The object of the present invention is to provide a liquid detergent or soap containing an ef ffective sunscreen agent therein such that washing with these detergents leaves a long lasting substantive amount of the sunscreen in the stratum corneum of the skin. Accordingly, the present invention provides a sunscreen detergent comprising a non ionic detergent or an amphoteric detergent or mixtures thereof con tailing an effective amount of a sunscreen agent therein. The present invention also provides a method of controlling the absorption of ultra violet light by skin exposed to ultra violet light, com prising providing a non ionic detergent, an amphoteric detergent or mixtures thereof having an effective amount of a sunscreen agent therein, and periodically applying the same to the skin prior to ex posure of the skin to the ultra violet light. These and other features of the present invention may be more readily understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and Examples which are exemplary in nature only. For the purposes of this application, the term detergent is used in its broadest sense to include technical soaps sponification of fats and oils as well as synthetic soaps or detergents, many of which are addition products of ethylene oxide and a compound with an active hydrogen atom. The principal requirement of the present invention is that the detergent or the soap be either non ionic or amphoteric in character. Chemically, a soap may be represented as R COOM wherein R is a straight chain hydrocarbon radical, either saturated or unsaturated and normally with 7 to 21 carbon atoms. The coo moiety is the residue of a carbocyclic acid group and is characteristic of natural soaps. M is a base forming material, either inorganic or organic. As is well known, various animal fats as well as vegetable oils may be used as a constituent in the soap or detergent. One of the preferred vegetable oils is coconut oil which contains a high proportion of saturated fatty acids but has a low average molecular weight, being a liquid at ambient temperatures. Olive oil while having a high average molecular weight contains a high proportion of unsaturated fatty acids, also being liquid at ambient temperatures. The invention principally concerns liquid detergents which includes in its definition the aforementioned soaps. Any well known sunscreening agent may be used however, the preferred sunscreening agents are listed below. In all cases where weight percents are listed after the sunscreen agent, the lower number in the range is thought to be the least amount of sunscreen effective if used alone without additional sunscreening agents while the higher number in the range indicates the maximum amount thought to be economically feasible to put into a liquid detergent. Adding a greater amount of sunscreen agent is not deleterious, simply more expensive. However, as the concentration of sunscreen agents is increased, less ultra violet is accepted by the skin resulting in less tanning. In the practice of this invention sunscreen detergents are prepared by incorporating a variety of chemically dissimilar sunscreen agents into nonionic or amphoteric liquid detergents. The following sunscreen agents were incorporated into various liquid detergent vehicles amino benzoic acid, 5 15 percent all percents provided are calculated as weight weight cinoxate 2 ethoxyethyl p methoxycinnamate , 1 3 percent digalloyl trioleate, 2 5 percent 2 ethylhexyl p methoxycinnamate, 2 5 percent glyceryl Paminobenzoate, 2 3 percent homosalate, 4 15 percent dioxybenzone, 0.5 5 percent oxybenzone 2 hydroxy4 methoxybenzophenone , 0.5 5 percent, padimate A pentyl p p dimethylaminoj benzoate . 1 4 percent, padimate 2 ethyThexyl p dimethylaminol benzoate l 4 percent. Not all of these agents are equally effective when incorporated into the nonionic or amphoteric liquid detergents nor do all provide equivalent substantivity long lastingness . For example, 15 percent homosalate provides far less sun protection than aminobenzoic acid 5 percent after 1,5, and 14 days of washing.However, all the named sunscreen agents do provide substantive ultra violet protection to some degree. EXAMPT.F. 1 A nonionic liquiff detergent vehicle was prepared by incorporating into water 5 percent by weight exthoxylated phenols, 1 percent by weight acetylated ethoxylated lanolin. To that was added a sunscreen agent, aminobenzoic acid, in the amount of about 5 percent by weight. The aqueous mixture was used ê twice daily to cleanse a 25cm square area of skin on the forearm At the end of ten days the treated area ê and a 25cm untreated area on the opposite forearm were exposed to a Hanovia quartz lamp at 10 inches distances for 20 minutes. Sunburn erythema was marked in the untreated area 8 hours after exposure, but not observed in the sunscreen detergent washed area. EXAMPh E 2 A combination nonionic and amphoteric liquid detergent was prepared by adding to water 10 weight percent of a coconut based imidazoline derivative rano1 , 15 percent by weight cocoamidobetaine, 0.5 percent by weight polysorbate, 0.7 percent by weight of a viscosity adjusting agent quarternary polyer, 0.1 percent by weight methyl paraben as a preservative for the amphoteric detergent. To this mixture was added 1.5 percent aminobenzoic acid. This detergent composition was used daily for two weeks by a 12 year old boy with a sun sensitive skin prior to swim ining in a swimming pool. Although the boy swam and sunbathed for 4 hours, no sunburn erythema developed.ExAMPLE 3 A nonionic detergent was prepared by adding a 5 percent by weight polysorbate to water and to that was added 1 percent cinoxate as a sunscreen agent.The composition was used for daily washing for 6 weeks by a 37 year old woman. After 4 weeks of use this woman travelled to Florida where she was exposed to significant amounts of sunlight with sunburning.EXAMPLE 4 An amphoteric liquid detergent was prepared by adding to water 10 percent by weight cocoamidobetaine, 5 percent by weight ammonium lauryl ether sulfate, 0.1 percent by weight propyl paraben as a preservative for the amphoteric detergent and to this was added 2.5 percent by weight glyceryl p aminobenzoate as a sunscreen agent. This detergent composition was ê used twice daily to cleanse a 25cm area of skin on the forearm. At the end of 10 days, the treated area and a 25cm2 untreated area on the opposite arm were exposed to a Hanovia quartz lamp at 10 inches distance for 20 minutes. Sunburn erythema was deep red in the untreated area 8 hours after exposure, but only very faint pink in the treated area.EXAMPLE 5 A combination nonionic and amphoteric liquid detergent was prepared by adding to water 5 percent by weight ethoxylated phenols, 10 percent by weight coconut based imidazoline derivative Miranol , and 2 percent by weight sodium lauryl ether sulfate also added as a preservative was 0.1 percent by weight methyl paraben and 0.1 percent by weight propyl paraben also added as a viscosity adjusting agent was 0.7 percent quarternary polymer. To this was added 2 percent by weight homosalate. The resulting detergent composition was used to cleanse a 25cm2 area of the forearm once daily for 4 weeks At the end of this 4 week period, the treated arm and a 25cm2 untreated area on the opposite forearm were exposed to a Hanovia quartz lamp at 10 inches distance for 20 minutes.Sunburn erythema was less marked in the detergent washed area 8 hours after exposure than was the untreated area.EXAMPLE 6 A nonionic liquid detergent comprised of water vehicle having 5 percent by weight polysorbate was used with 2 percent by weight oxybenzone to wash the right forearm of a volunteer subject 12 times in a 6 hour period. The left arm was washed with only the plain nonionic liquid detergent without the oxybenzone. At the end of the 6 hour period both fore2nns were exposed to 20 minutes U.V. light from a Hanovia quartz lamp at 10 inches distance. The following morning sunburn erythema was observed in the left arm but not in the right arm.EXAMPLE 7 A nonionic liquid detergent vehicle comprised of water and 2.5 percent by weight polysorbate in water was prepared with 2.5 percent by weight padimateA added as a sunscreen agent. The resulting detergent composition was used as set forth in Example 6 to wash the forearms of a 39 year old man prior to sun exposure. The sunscreen containing nonionic liquid deterent composition provided superior protection from the harmful U.V. rays as compared to the plain nonionic liquid detergent. EXAMPLE 8 An amphoteric liquid detergent was prepared by adding to water 12 percent by weight of a coconut based imidazoline derivate Miranol , a 15 percent by weight cocoamidobetaine, a preservative consisting of 0.1 percent by weight methyl paraben and 0.1 per cent by weight propyl paraben, a sunscreening agent of padimate 0 in the amount of 5 percent by weight and a viscosity adjusting agent of quarternary polymer present in the amount of 0.7 percent weight and 1 percent by weight of an acetylated ethoxylated lanolin. The lanolin was used to provide better cosmetic properties to the composition. The amphoteric liquid detergent composition was used by a 39 year old male to wash twice daily for 14 days which provided noticeable protection from sunburn upon exposure to ultra violet rays. It will be seen therefore that there has been provided a plurality of liquid detergent vehicles each provided with an effective sunscreen agent therein.These nonionic and or amphoteric vehicles are stable over long periods of time and provide substantive and effective sunscreen agents to the stratum corneum of the skin. While there has been disclosed what at present is considered to be the preferred embodiments of the present invention, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that various modifications and alterations may be made.