# Method of preparing a chlorinated, brominated, radiobrominated, iodinated and or radioiodinated, aromatic or heteroaromatic compound, as well as a kit for preparing a diagnostic composition on the basis of this compound.

## Abstract
The invention relates to a method of preparing a chlorinated, brominated, radiobrominated, iodinated and or radio iodinated aromatic or heteroaromatic compound, in which the hetero aromatic nucleus optionally comprises one or more additional substituents, by reacting the corres ponding halogenated or diazonium substituted compound in the presence of a water soluble acid and of copper ions as a catalyst with a likewise water soluble chloride, bromide radiobromide, iodide or radio iodide, in which the reaction is carried out in the presence of one or more reduction agents, which are stable in acid medium, in a quantity exceeding the quantity of catalyst. The invention also relates to a composi tion suitable for diagnostic examination and to a kit for the preparation thereof. The invention further relates to a method and an equipment for the preparation of said composition.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of prepari ng a chlorinated, brominated, radiobrominated, iodinated and or radioiodinated aromatic or heteroaromatic compound, in which the hetero aromatic nucleus comprises optionally one or more additional substituents, by reacting the corresponding halogenated or diazonium substituted compound in the presence of a water soluble acid and of copper ions as a catalyst with a likewise water soluble chloride, bromide, radiobromide, iodide or radioiodide, characterized in that the reaction is carried out in the presence of one or more reduction agents, which are stable in acid medium, in a quantity exceeding the quantity of catalyst. 2. A method as claimed in Claim 1 of preparing a brominated, radiobrominated, iodinated or radioiodinated aromatic or heteroaromatic compound, in which the hetero aromatic nucleus is a benzene nucleus, a naphthalene nucleus, a pyridine nucleus, a pyrimidine nucleus, a qui noline nucleus or an indole nucleus which comprises one or more additional substituents, by reacting the corresponding halogenated or diazonium substituted compound in the presence of a water soluble. acid and of copper ions as a catalyst with a likewise water soluble bromide, radiobromide, iodide or radioiodide, characterized in that the reaction is carried out in the presence of one or more reduction agents, which are stable in acid medium, in a quantity exceeding the quantity of catalyst. 3. A method as claimed in Claim 2 of preparing iodine containing contrast media, for example iophendylate and other ones on the basis of 2 , 2,4 or 2,4,6 substituted 1,3,5 triiodobenzene, by reacting the corresponding brominated or diazonium substituted compound in the presence of a water soluble acid and of copper ions as a catalyst with a likewise water soluble iodide, characterized in that the reaction is carried out in the presence of one or more reduction agents, which are stable in acid medium, in a quantity exceeding the quantity of catalyst. t. A method as claimed in Claim 2 of preparing starting substances for radioiodinated diagnostics, which starting substances are selected from the group consisting of o iodohippuric acid or salts thereof, lodoamphetamine or derivatives thereof, iodo LJ phenyl fatty acids or salts thereof and rose bengal, by reacting the corresponding brominated or diazonium substituted compound in the presence of a water soluble acid and of copper ions as a catalyst with a likewise water soluble iodide, characterized in that the reaction is carried out in the presence of one or more reduction agents, stable in acid medium, in a quantity exceeding the quantity of catalyst 5. A method as claimed in Claim 2 of preparing radioiodinated diagnostics selected from the group consisting of radiolodinated o iodohippuric acid or salts thereof, lodoamphetamine or derivatives thereof, iodo phenyl fat ty acids or salts thereof, rose bengal, N iodoquinolyl N N dimethylpropanediamine, N,N,N trimethyl N 2 hyl droxy 3 methyl 5 iodobenzyl 1,3 propanediamine, p iodosulphonamide, N iodophenylsulphonyl N ethyl urea, glibenclanide, 3 iodo 4 aminophenylethylamine, N,N dimethyliodo benzylamine, substituted or non substituted iodopyridines or lodopyridineoxides, mono and triiodobenzoic acid, N 3 acetyl 4 3 isopropylamino 2 hydroxy propoxyphenyl iodobenzamide, iodinated indocyanine green, iodinated hydroxybenzylpindolol, iodinated thiouracil, iodinated es tradiol, halogenated phenothiazines, halogenated benzo ia zepines, halogenated metyrapone, halogenated butyrophenone derivatives, halogenated dibenzazepines, halogenated thyroid gland hormones such as 3,3 diiodothyrosine, 3,3 ,5 triiodothyrosine and 3,3 ,5,5 tetraiodothyrosine, halogenated benzylguanidine, iodoantipyrine, and iodine containing contrast media, for example iophendylate and other ones on the basis of 2 ,2,4 or 2,4,6 substituted 1,3,5 triiodobenzene, by reacting the corresponding non labelled bromine or iodine substituted compound in the presence of a water soluble acid and of copper ions as a ca talyst with a likewise water soluble radioactive iodide, characterized in that the reaction is carried out in the presence of one or more reduction agents, which are stable in acid medium, in a quantity exceeding the quantity of c ltalyst . 6. A method as claimed in Claim 5, characterized in t at sodium iodide or potassium iodide labelled with iodi ne 123 or iodine 131 is used as a radioactive iodide. 7. A method as claimed in any of the preceding claims, ci.racterized in that an Sn II salt is used as a reduc tien agent whether or not in the presence of one or more ar,tioxidants, preferably selected from the group consis ting of metallic tin, ascorbic acid, citric acid, a mono sac haride or gentisic acid. b. A method as claimed in any of the Claims 1 6, cha racterized in that ascorbic acid, isoascorbic acid, citric ac d, a monosaccharide, or a sulphite, preferably ascorbic ac.d, is used as a reduction agent. 9. A method as claimed in Claim 8 of preparing radio iidinated o iodohippuric acid or salts thereof, iodoam p etamine or derivatives thereof, or iodo phenyl fatty aids or salts thereof, by reacting the corresponding non adloactive bromine or iodine substituted compound in the presence of a water soluble acid and of copper ions as a catalyst with a likewise water soluble radioactive iodide, szaracterized in that the reaction is carried out in the resence of ascorbic acid as a reduction agent. 10. A method of preparing radioiodinated o iodohippu ic acid or salts thereof, by reacting the corresponding lon radioactive bromine or iodine substituted compound irith a water soluble radioactive iodide, characterized in that the reaction is carried out in the presence of ascor DiC acid as a reduction agent. 11. A method as claimed in any of the preceding Claims haracterized in that the reaction is carried out in a aqueous solution which optionally comprises salts and one Dr more water miscible organic solvents, preferably in a solution which is entirely or substantially f. from organic solvent. 12. A method as claimed in any of the precedingClaims, characterized in that the reaction is carried out at a temperature of approximately 121 C, preferably approximately 1000C 1 . A composition suitable for diagnostic examination, which comprises, in addition to a pharmaceutically ac acceptable formulatio liquid and or one or more auxiliary substances1 a iodine containing contrast medium, charac terized in that the composition comprises a contrast me doum prepared according to any of the Claims 3, 7, 8, ly and 12. 14. A composition, suitable for diagnostic examination, which comprises, in addition vo a pharmaceutically acce table formulation liquid and or one or more auxiliary substances, a radioiodinated diagnostic, characterized in that the composition comprises a diagnostic prepared according to any of the Claims 1, 2 and 5 12. 15. A method of preparing an injectable composition as claimed in Claims 13 or 14, characterized in that a pharmaceutically acceptable formulation liquid, which may comprise one or more auxiliary substances and is accomodated in at least one supply syringe, is added to the radioiodinated diagnostic, which radiodiagnostic containing substance is accomodated in a vial, sealingly closed with a pierceable stopper, said addition being car ried out by piercing the stopper of said vial with the needle or needles of said supply syringe or syringes, and by then allowing the formulation liquid in said supply syringe or syringes to communicate with the atmospheric pressure to enable said liquid to reach the solution in the vial through the needle or needles, zad that the composition in the vial thus obtained is then transferred to an injection syringe by piercing the stopper of said vial with the needle of said invention syringe and by then sucking the composition into the injection syringe, during which addition and or transfer said formulation liquid and or injectable composition preferably flow s through at least one sterilizing filter. 16. An equipment for carrying out the method as claimed in claim 15, characterized in that the equipment comprises a at least one supply syringe, provided with a cylindrical barrel for accomodating a formulation liquid, to which barrel a hollow needle is sealingly connected and in which barrel a plunger is movably positioned, the cylindrical side wall of said barrel being provided with at least one aperture in such distance from the attached needle, that the formulation liquid to be accomodated in the barrel can be separated from the aperture in the barrel wall by means of the plunger, but that by withdrawing the plunger said aperture can allow said formulation liquid to communicate with the atmospheric pressure outside the syringe, b a vial for accbbiiodating a radiodiagnostic containing subtance, which vial is sealingly closed with a pierceable stopper, and c an injection syringe, provided with a cylindrical barrel for accomodating an injectable composition, to which barrel a hollow needle is sealingly connected, if desired, through an intermediately positioned sterilizing filter means, the needle having a length sufficient for reaching the bottom of the vial after having pierced the stopper of said vial, and in which barrel a plunger is movably positioned. 17. A syringe for an equipment as claimed in Claim 16, provided with a cylindrical barrel for accomodating a formulation liquid, to which barrel a hollow needle is sealingly connected and in which barrel a plunger is movably positioned, characterized in that the cylindrical oide wall of the barrel is provided with at least, one aperture in such distance from the attached needle, that e formulation liquid to be accomodated in the barrel can be separated from the aperture in the barrel wall by means of the plunger, but that by withdrawing the plunger said aperture can allow said formulation liquid to communicate with the atmospheric pressure outside the syringe. 18. A kit for preparing a composition suitable for radiodiagnostic examination, comprising a bromine or iodine substituted aromatic or heteroaromatic compound, in which the heteroaromatic nucleus optionally comprises one or more additional substituents, a water soluble acid, a copper salt and optionally a pharmaceutically acceptable formulation liquid and or auxiliary substances, characterized in that the kit comprises in addition one or more reduction agents, which are stable in acid medium, and instructions for use stipulating that the radioactive diagnostic can be prepared by using the method as claimed in any of the Claims 1, 2, 5 9, 11 and 12. 19. A kit as claimed in Claim 18, characterized in that the kit comprises as a iodine containing compound one of the compounds as claimed in Claim 3 or 4. 20. A kit as claimed in Claim 18 or 19, characterized in that the kit comprises as a reduction agent a reduction agent as claimed in Claim 7 or 8. 21. A kit for preparing a composition suitable for radiodiagnostic examination, comprising o iodohippuric acid or a salt thereof, and optionally a pharmaceutically acceptable formulation liquid and or auxiliary substances, characterized in that the kit moreover comprises ascorbic acid as a reduction agent and instructions for use stipulating that the radioactive diagnostic can be prepared by using the method as claimed in Claim 10.

## Description
Method of preparing a chlorinated, brominated, radiobrominated, iodinated and or radioiodinated aromatic or heteroaromatic compound, as well as diagnostic composition on the basis of this compound, kit for preparing said composition, and method and equipment for the preparation of this composition. The invention relates to a method of preparing a chlorinated, brominated, radiobrominated, iodinated and or radioiodinated aromatic or heteroaromatic compound, in which the heteroaromatic nucleus optionally comprises one or more additional substituents, by reacting the corresponding halogenated or diazonium substituted compound in the presence of a water soluble acid and copper ions as a catalyst with a likewise water soluble chloride, bromide, radiobromide, iodide or radioiodide. Such aromatic substitution reactions in which, for example, a diazonium group is substituted by a halogen atom Sandmeyer reaction or a halogen atom is replaced by a different or a radiolabelled halogen atom, are frequently described in literature. However, in these reactions undesired by products are often formed which lead to a contaminated final product. The reaction also often runs off incompletely, as a result of which the final product still contains undesired starting material. This is a serious disadvantage, in particular for the preparation of substances having a pharmaceutical or diagnostic application for which a high degree of purity is required. An often elaborate purification process then is necessary to reach a purity which is acceptable for pharmaceutical application. This is the more important in preparing compounds for radiodiagnostic examination, because for these compounds a purification afterwards may give rise to a considerable reduction of radioactivity due to natural decay of the radioisotope. Compounds for radiodiagnostic examination, i e. radiolabelled compounds, may be used, for example, for the examination into deviations in shape and function of internal organs and into the presence and location of pathological processes in the body. For this purpose, a composition in which the radiolabelled compound is present can be administered to the patient, for example, in the form of an injectable liquid. By means of suitable detection device, for example, a gamma camera, images can be obtained by observing or recording the emitted rna ation, of, for example, the organ, the body fluid or the pathological process in which the radiolabelled compound is incorprorated. A radiolabelled compound suitable for this purpose is radiciodinated o iodohippuric acid or a salt thereof. This radiolabelled compound has been found to be particularly suitable for examining the renal function. The readily available sodium salt of o iodohippuric acid, labelled with iodine 131, is often used for this purpose.Because the radiation characteristics of iodine 131 are less favourable and the half life of said radioisotope is comparatively long for use in radiodiagnostics for examining the renal function, it has more recently been suggested to use iodine 123 labelled o iodohippuric acid or a salt thereof. Iodine 123 has a comparatively short half life, names approximately 13 hours, as a result of which compounds of this radioisotope are on the one hand very suitable, for example, for examining the renal function but on the other hand may present logistic problems after the isotope has been produced in a cyclotron.Hawkins et al. described in Eur. J. Nucl. Med. 1982, 7, pp. 58 61 a fast method of preparing iodine 123 o iodo hippuric acid. In view of the above mentioned logistic problems of iodine 123 labelled compounds, the said authors have suggested a kit preparation method in which the user himself, i.e. the clinic or the clinical laboratory, can prepare the radiolabelled compound by using a so called kit. This kit comprises all the constituents which are necessary for the preparation, and usually instructions for use.A kit described by Hawkins et al. comprises the following constituents acetate buffer, o ioao hippuric acid in 50 ethanol, an aqueous solution of copper sulphafre and an aqueous solution of iodine 123 labelled sodium iodide. The combined ingredients were heated in an autoclave for 15 minutes at 1210C, producing the desired iodine 123 o iodohippuric acid in a yield of 94 5 free iodine,123 was still present. The same result could be obtained by using a kit in a freeze dried form in which a phosphate buffer was preferred to an acetate buffer. The disadvantage of the above described method is the still incomplete conversion to the desired radiolabelled compound. When used as a radiodiagnostic, the remaining free iodine 123 does not take part in the intended examination, but goes entirely to the thyroid gland which is thus burdened unnecessarily It has also been found that the use of an oxidant, for example manganic oxide, potassium permanganate or potas sium iodate, instead of copper ions, does not result in a complete conversion. Upon radioiodinating rose bengal with iodine 131 in the presence of an oxidant, as described inUnited States Patent Specification 4,298,591, a conversion higher than approximately 90 could not be achieved. Apparently, the preparation of radioiodinated amphetamine and derivatives thereof also presents great problems, as appears from European Patent Specification 11858. After a technically unattractive preparation method in ethanol as a solvent in a closed tube at 1210C, the resulting product must be subjected to several purification steps. Mills has described in Int. J. Appl. Pad. Isot., Vol. 33 , 1982 , pp. 467 468 , the radioiodination of diatrizoic acid by reacting iodine 123 labelled sodiumiodide with diatrizoic acid in the presence of copper sulphate at a pH between 3 and 4. As will appear from the Examples, under the reaction conditions described by Mills, viz. hee ting for 15 minutes at I250C, the desired radiolabelled product could be obtained in an average yield of only 826. So also in this case the conversion is rather incomplete and the reaction temperature required, viz. 125 to, is unfavourable for kit purposes see further . It is the object of the present invention to provide a method for the preparation described in the opening para graph which does not present the above mentioned disadvantages and in which the desired product is produced in a high yield without interfering starting materials or by products being present. According to the invention this object can be achieved by performing the substitution reaction mentioned in the opening paragraph in the presence of one or more reduction agents, which are stable in acid medium, in a quantity exceeding the quantity of the catalyst used It has been found surprisingly that as a result of this the yield of the product formed in the substitution reaction can be considerably increased, even up to approximately 100 in the preparation of e.g. radioiodinated o iodohippuric acid, amphetamine derivatives, iodinated thyrosine, diatrizoic acid, iodinated benzylguanidine, and iodinated benzylpropanediamine derivatives. The invention relates more in particular to the preparation of a brominated, radiòbrominated, iodinated or radioiodinated aromatic or heteroaromatic compound, in which the hetero aromatic nucleus is a benzene nucleus, a naphthalene nucleus, a pyridine nucleus, a pyrimidine nucleus, a quinoline nucleus or an indole nucleus which comprises one or more additional substituents. Although the invention is particularly suitable for the preparation of radiolabelled compounds from the corresponding non labelled compounds, the invention is by no means restricted thereto. Hetero aromatic compounds substituted with chlorine or non labelled bromine or iodine can also be prepared from the corresponding halogen compounds or diazonium compounds by using the method according to the invention. Suitable non radiolabelled iodine compounds which can be prepared by using the method according to the invention are iodine containing contrast media, for example iophendylate and other ones on the basis of 2 , 2,4 or 2,4,6 substituted 1,3,5 triiodobenzene, for example, acetrizoic acid, adipiodone, amidotrizoic acid or diatrizoic acid, bunamiodyl, phenobutiodil, iobenzamic acid, iocarmic acid, iocetamic acid, iodamide, iodoxamic acid, ioglycamic acid, iopanoic acid, iopodic acid, iothalamic acid, ioxithalamic acid, metrizamide, metrizoic acid, tyropanic acid, and salts of the above mentioned acids. Other suitable, non radiolabelled compounds which can be prepared according to the invention from the corresponding halogen compounds of diazonium compounds are starting substances for radioiodinated diagnostics, for example, o iodohippuric acid or salts thereof, iodoamphetamine or derivatives thereof, iodo S phenyl fatty acids or salts thereof and rose bengal. As stated hereinbefore, the invention is excellently suitable for the preparation of radiolabelled bromine or radiolabelled iodine compounds by reacting the corresponding non radiolabelled bromine or iodine compounds in acid medium in the presence of a reduction agent with a water soluble radiolabelled bromide or iodide. As a water soluble bromide or iodide is preferably chosen an alkali metal bromide or iodide, for example, a sodium bromide or iodide or a potassium bromide or iodide. Radioisotopes suitable for this purpose are bromine 77, iodine 123, iodine 125 and iodine 131 as described hereinbefore, the best suitable of these iodine isotopes for use in radiodiagnostic compounds is iodine 123. Therefore, a iodine 123 labelled sodium iodide solution or potassium iodide solution is preferably chosen for the substitution reaction.Various radioiodinated important diagnostics can simply and in a high yield be prepared in this manner, for example, radioiodinated o hippuric acid and salts thereof, labelled iodoamphetamine and derivatives thereof, labelled iodo D phenyl fatty acids and salts thereof, labelled io dinated thyrosines, such as labelled mono , di , tri and tetraiodothyrosine, labelled 1,3,5 triiodobenzene derivatives, such as labelled diatrizoic acid and salts thereof, labelled halogenated benzylguanidine, such as m iodoben zylguanidine, and labelled N,N,N trimethyl N 2 hydroxy 3 methyl 5 iodobenzyl l,3 propanediamine.Labelled iodoamphetamine derivatives important for diagnostic purposes are labelled N lower alkyl substituted lodoamphetamines, for example, N isopropyl iodoampbetamine. Other interes ting halogen containing compounds which may be radioiodi named according to the invention are rose bengal, N iodo quinolyn N, dimethylpropanediaminei p iodosulphonamide, N iodophenylsulphonyl N ethylurea, glibenclamed, 3 iodo 4 ami nophenyle thylamine, N, N dimethyl iodobenzylamine, substituted or non substituted iodopyridines or iodopyri dine oxides, mono and triiodobenzoic acid, N 3 acetyl 4 3 isopropylamino 2 hydroxy propoxyphenyl iodobenzamide7 lodinated indocyanine green, iodinated hydroxybenzylpindo lol, iodinated thiouracil, iodinated estradiol, halogena ted phenothiazines, halogenated benzodiazepines, halogena ted metyrapone, halogenated butyrophenone derivatives, halogenated dibenzazepines, halogenated thyroid gland hormones as mentioned before, lodoantipyrine, and iodine con taining contrast media, for example lophendylate and other ones on the basis of 2 , 2,4 , and 2,4,6 substituted 1,3,5 triiodobenzene. Reduction agents which are very suitable for use in the method according to the invention are Sn II salts. In addition to Snt salts are preferably used one or more antioxidants, for example, metallic tin, ascorbic acid, citric acid, a monosaccharide or gentisic acid. Of these antioxidants ascorbic acid has been found to be particularly suitable for use together with a Sn II salt when ascorbic acid is used, this acid may in addition have the function of water soluble acid In addition to Sn II salts, other reduction agents stable in acid medium may successfully be used, for example, ascorbic acid, isoascorbic acid, citric acid, a monosaccharide, or a sulphite.The use of ascorbic acid as a reduction agent is to be preferred due to its extremely favourable influence on the desired substitution reaction, the ready availability and the suitability to use it in pharmaceutical compositions moreover, ascorbic acid may serve as the water soluble acid required for the reaction. For example, radioiodinated o iodo hippuric acid or salts thereof, iodoamphetamine or derivatives thereof, iodo phenyl fatty acids or salts thereof, iodobenzylguanidine, iodobenzylpropanediamine derivatives, and iodothyrosines can be prepared substantially quantitatively by reacting the corresponding non radioactive bromine or iodine substituted compounds in the presence of a water soluble acid and of copper ions as a catalyst with likewise water soluble radioactive iodide, provided the reaction is awrrried out in the presence of ascorbic acid as a reduction agent. Indeed, it has been found that in the preparation of radioiodinated o iodohippuric acid or salts thereof, the catalyst may even be absent to still get a substantially quantititative result of the desired reaction. It is therefore to be considered a particular aspect of the invention that radioiodinated o iodohuppuric acid or salts thereof can successfully be prepared by a simple reaction of the corresponding compound substituted with non radioactive bromine or iodine with a water soluble radioactive iodide in the presence of ascorbic acid as a reduction agent. The reaction according to the invention can be readily carried out in an aqueous solution which comprises, if so desired, salts and one or more water miscible organic solvents, for example, ethanol, methanol or acetone Organic solvents, as well as other auxiliary substances to improve the solubility have the disadvantage, however, of being potentially toxic.It is of great advantage that the reaction mixture can be directly introduced as a pharmaceutical composition in the blood stream of the living being without any further purification for example, distilling off organic solvent In the reaction described by Hawklns et al in Eur.J.Kucl Med. 1982, 7, 58 61 and in European patent 11858 a considerable quantity of ethanol is used, as a result of which the resulting reaction mix ture is less suitable to be used as such as a radiodiagnostic A particular advantage of the reaction according to the Invention is that it gives a substantially quantitative result in a solution which is entirely free or substantially entirely free from organic solvent.The resulting reaction mixture can therefore be used directly for pharmaceutical applications by administering it, for example, intravenously or subcutaneously to a living be ing The reaction is therefore preferably carried out in a sterile solution having a pH suitable for physiological application. It is an extra aspect of the invent ion that the reaction can be carried out at a temperature which is suitable for use in a clinic or a clinical laboratory. This is important in particular for the preparation of compounds labelled with radioactive bromine or iodine. These compounds, having a comparatively short life in connection with natural decay of the radioisotope used, can then be prepared in situ by the user and be used immediately thereafter. It has been found that the desired substItu tion reaction proceeds excellently at a temperature of approximately 121 C, a temperature at which compositions for intravenous or subcutaneous administration have to be sterilized.Although some clinics or clinical laboratories have the disposal of an autoclave with which steriliza tions at 1210C can be carried out, this is not the general rule A preparation on or in a water bath, however, can simply be realized in any clinic and any clinical laboratory. It is therefore of particular importance that the reaction according to the invention has been found to result in the desired product quanititatively already at approximately 100 C. This is another great advantage as compared with the methods described by Hawkins et al. and by Mills, in which temperatures of 121 C and 125or respectively were necessary for conversions to only 94 and 82t respectively. The invention also relates to a composition suitable for diagnostic examination which comprises, in addition to a pharmaceutically acceptable formulation liquid and or one or more auxiliary substances, a iodine containing contrast medium which has been prepared by using the method according to the invention, and to a composition which is suitable for diagnostic examination, which comprises a radioiodinated diagnostic, and which has also been prepared by using the method according to the invention. The invention further relates to a method of preparing the above injectable composition. This method is carried out in that a pharmaceutically acceptable formulation liquid, which may comprise one or more auxiliary substances and is accomodated in at least one supply syringe, is added to the radioiodinated diagnostic, which radiodiagnostic containing substance is accomodated in a vial, sealingly closed with a pierceable stopper, said addition being carried out by piercing the stopper of said vial with the needle or needles of said supply syringe or syringes, and by then allowing the formulation liquid in said supply syringe or syringes to communicate with the atmospheric pressure to enable said liquid to reach the substance in the vial through the needle or needles, and that the composition in the vial thus obtained is then transferred to an injection syringe by piercing the stopper of said vial with the needle of said injection syringe and by then sucking the composition into the injection syringe, during which addition and or transfer said formulation liquid and or injectable composition preferably flow s through at least one sterilizing filter. If said addition and transfer are carried out in a sterile atmosphere, e g under laminar flow conditions, sterilizing filters may be omitted. The invention also relates to an equipment for carrying out the above method, which equipment comprises a at least one supply syringe, provided with a cy cylindrical barrel for accomodating a formulation liquid, to which barrel a hollow needle is sealingly connected and in which barrel a plunger is movably positioned, the cylindrical side wall of said barrel being provided with at least one aperture in such distance from the attached needle, that the formulation liquid to be accomodated in the barrel can be separated from the aperture in the barrel wall by means of the plunger, but that by withdrawing the plunger said aperture can allow said formulation liquid to communicate with the atmospheric pressure outside the syringe, b a vial for accomodating a radiodiagnostic containing substance, which vial is sealingly closed with a pierceable stopper, and c an injection syringe, provided with a cylindrical barrel for accomodating an injectable composition, to which barrel a hollow needle is sealingly connected, if desired, through an intermediately positioned sterilizing filter means, the needle having a length sufficient for reaching the bottom of the vial after having pierced the stopper of said vial, and in which barrel a plunger is movably positioned Moreover the invention relates to the above defined syringe for said equipment, provided with a cylindrical barrel for accomodating a formulation liquid The invention further relates to a method of radioassaying a warmblooded living being, in particular a human being, by administering the above radiodiagnostic compoSi tion to the being, in which the quantity of radioactivity administered should be sufficient for detection by external imaging. The being is then subjected to external imaging, for example with a gamma camera, to detect the accumulated radioactivity and thus to determine the location thereof in the body, or to establish the function of an organ. A quantity of radioactive material to be administered which is sufficient for detection by external imaging is approximately 0.1 to approximately 10 millicurie per 70 kg of bodyweight the radioactive material is preferably administered in a quantity of 0.1 to 7 millicurie per 70 kg of body weight. As described hereinbefore, the reaction according to the invention for the preparation of radioactive compounds is excellently suitable for a kit preparation. This means that a so called cold kit in which all the ingredients for the preparation reaction are present with the exception of the radioactive iodide or bromide, is placed available to the user. The radioactive material is placed to the user 8 disposal separately. The user himself can now perform the reaction according to the invention by taking the kit destined for preparing the radiolabelled compound which he desires and mixing the ingredients thereof with the radiolabelled iodide or bromide, by heating the resulting mixture for a short period of time, for example at 1000C, a composition suitable for diagnostic examination is obtained. If desired, a formulation liquid may be added to the mixture prior to or after heating. The ingredients are preferably present in the kit in a freeze dried form this is in favour of the stability. It will be obvious from the above that the invention relates also and in particular to a kit for preparing a composition suitable for radiodiagnostic examination. In addition to the bromine substituted or iodine substituted aromatic or heteroaromatic compound in which the hetero aromatic nucleus optionally comprises one or more additional substituents, to a water soluble acid, a copper salt and, if desired, a pharmaceutically acceptable formulation liquid and or auxiliary substances, the said kit comprises a reduction agent as described hereinbefore. The kit furthermore comprises instruct ions for use with a prescription for carrying out the method. Finally, the invention also relates to a kit for preparing radioiodinated o iodohippuric acid or a salt thereof, comprising the non labelled compound, if desired a pharmaceutically acceptable formulation liquid andlor auxiliary substances, and ascorbic acid as a reduction agent. This kit also comprises instructions for use. The invention will now be described in greater detail with reference to the ensuing specific examples.EXAMPLE I 3.3 umol Cut solution of 32.5 m of CuS04.5H20 per 10 ml of water , 43 umol of ascorbic acid, 0.3. lumol of N isopropyl para iodoamphetami ne.11CI, 30 ul of a iodine 123 labelled sodium iodide solution having a specific activity of 0.5 mCi ,ul and 150 ul of water were heated, after mixing, in a closed vial at 1000C for 30 minutes. The resulting labelling efficiency of the radiolabelled product was determined by radio llPLC and was higher than 99 , while no radioactive by products could be detected.Nor could non labelled by products be detected by means of UV spectroscopy. The same results were obtained when in addition 0.4 umol of Sn II were added.EXAMPLE II 50 ul of Cu NO3 2 in a acetic acid 96 solu 50 ul of Cu N03 2 in an acetic acid 968 so u tion 1.3 mg ml , 1 mg of Snc12.2H20 and 1 mg ofN isopropyl para iodoamphetamine.HCl were mixed in a closed reaction vial. A chip of metallic tin and 20 ul of iodine 123 containing sodium iodide solution specific activity 0.5 mCi ul were then added. The vial was then heated to 1700C for 30 minutes. The resulting labelling efficiency, determined by radio HPLC, was higher than 998. The reaction product thus obtained was then brought at pH 10 to 11 with a 1 molar NaOH solution and chromatographed over a micro column with Prep.Bondapack C18 55 105 reg. trademark packing. The column was then rinsed with 10 ml of 1120 and the N isopropyl p I amphetamine was eluted quantitatively with 2 3 ml of acidified ethanol. When instead of iodine 123 sodium iodide a bromine 77 containing sodium bromide solution was used, the radiobromine labelled amphetamine derivative could be prepared under substantially the same conditions. Iodine 123 labelled N isopropyl para iodoamphetamine could also be obtained by starting from N isopropyl parabromoaphetamine, by reacting it with iodine 123 labelled sodium iodide.EXAMPLE III 0.2 mg of ortho iodohippuric acid, 2 mg ascorbic acid, 1 3 umol CuSOa, 0.5 ml H20 and radioactive iodide 50 ul of a sodium iodide solution labelled with iodine 123 activity 25 mCi were mixed in a closed vial and heated at substantially 100 C for 5 minutes. By means of radio HPLC it was demonstrated that the labelling efficiency was substantially 1008, while no radioactive or non labelled by products could be detected UV . The reaction has been carried out with the same result using a iodine 131 labelled sodium iodide solution.EXAMPLE IV 1 mg of p bromophenylhexadecane carboxylic acid, 0.3 ml MeOH H20 90 10 , 2 umol Cut04, 4 mg of ascorbic acid and 50 ul of a iodine 123 labelled sodium iodide solution activity 25 mCi were heated at 1500C in a closed reaction vessel for 1 hour. The desired iodine 123 labelled product was obtained in a labelling efficiency of more than 90 , while substantially no by products were formed. EXAMPLE V 1 mg of p iodophenylhexadecane carboxylic acid, 0.3 ml of MeOH H2O 90 10 , 2 umol CuSO4, 4 mg of ascorbic acid and 5 ul of a iodine 123 labelled sodium iodide solution activity 2.5 mCi were heated at 100 C in a closed reaction vial for 30 mlnutes.The labelling efficiency was substantially 100 this was determined by means of radio HPLC.EXAMPLE VI Kit preparation for an injectable radiolodinated N isopropyl p iodoamphetamine solution, as well as the use of said solution. The following components were added together in the given sequence 1 2 mg of N isopropyl p iodoamphetamine.HCl 5.9 mol , 2 10 mg of ascorbic acid 3 460 l of water, 4 40 l of CUSO4 solution 5.2 mol , and 5 10 ul of SnSO4 solution 0.44 mol . After freeze drying, the mixture was added under ni nitrogen to a sterile closed vial, after which 0.5 ml of sterile oxygen free water and 10 ,ul iodine 123 labelled sodium iodide solution were successively added 5 mCi . The vial was heated at l00 C for 30 minutes. In order to obtain an isotonic solution having a p11 of approximately 6 suitable for injection, 1.5 ml of a sterile aqueous solution containing per millilitre 6 mg of NaCl. 3.3 mg of ascorbic acid and 2.42 mg of Na2CO3.10H2O were added to the resulting reaction mixture.The labelling efficiency of the resulting composition was determined by means of radio HPLC and was over 998. Non labelled by products could not be detected UV . When no sterile solutionS were used, the composition was sterilized afterwards by filtration over a 0.22 u filter the composition then did not differ from the above one.The sterilized composition was administered intravenously to a patient in a quantity of 2.5 mCi. Excellent scintigraphic images of the brains were obtained by means of a gamma camera.EXAMPLE VII Preparation of radioiodinated o iodohippuric acid and kit for a composition provided with the said radiodiagnostic.1 ml of sterile oxygen free water and 20 ul of a sterile iodine 123 lab ed sodium iodide solution were added successively to 1 m9 of o iodohippuric acid sodium salt and 4 mg of ascorbic acid in a sterile closed vial under nitrogen total activity 10 mCi . The vial was heated at 100 C for 10 minutes. The labelling efficiency was determined by means of radio HPLC and was approximately 100 .Labelled or non radioactive by products were not detected.In order to obtain an isotonic solution having a pH suitable for injection, 1 ml of a sterile aqueous solution was added comprising 4 mg of ascorbic acid, 14 mg of NaCl and 5 mg of Na2C03.10H20.When no sterile solutions were used, the resulting compositions was sterilized afterwards as described in ExampleVI.When a iodine 131 labelled sodium iodide solution was used, the iodine 131 labelled o iodohippuric acid was obtained with the same labelling efficiency.EXAMPLE VIII Kit preparation for an injectable radioiodinated N isopropyl p iodoamphetamine IAMP solution, as well as the use of said solution. The following components were added together in the given sequence 1 2 mg of pure N isopropyl p iodoamphetamine sulphate 2 10 mg of L ascorbic acid 3 5 mg of gentisic acid 4 1 mg of SnSO4 5 4.5 mg of sodium citrate,2H2O 6 1.2 mg of Na2SO4 7 1000 l of oxygen free water 8 40 m of CuSO4 solution 32.5 mg CuSO4.5H2O 10 ml h2O . The mixture was added through a 0.22 sterilizing filter to a sterile and apyrogen vial, then freeze dried in a sterile nitrogen atmosphere and septum closed uunder these conditions.For clinical preparation 1 ml of sterile oxygen free water and 5 l of sterile ioadine 123 labelled sodium ioide solution 2 mCi or 1 ml of sterile iodine 123 labelled sodium iodide solution containing the required activity were added. The septum closed vial was heated at 100 C for 30 minutes. n obtained solution was isotonic and of injectable pH. The labeling efficiency of the resulting composition, as determined by means of radio HPLC, was over 99 average of 20 experiments . Non labelled by products could not be detected W detection.The composition was administered intravenously to a pa tient in a quantity of 2 to 4 mCi Excellent scintigraphicImages of the brains were obtained with both a planar 2 mCi and SPECT 4 mCi camera. The composition was found stable for at least 24 hours.Use of the 123I solution in amounts varying from 5 to 50 l 5 to 25 mCi yielded equal results. EX PLE IX Kit preparation for an injectable radioiodinated o Iodo hippuric acid solution, as well as the use of said solution. 2 mg of pure o iodo hippuric acid 5 mg of gentisic acid 10 mg of L ascorbic acid 1 mg of SnSO4 1000 l of oxygen free water 1 l of a CUSO4, solution 300 g CuSO4 .5H2O 10 ml The above mixture was treated and freeze dried as mentioned in Example VIII The clinical preparation was carried out in two steps 1 1 ml of sterile oxygen free water and 2.5 l of sterile 123 I solution l mCi or 1 ml of a sterile 123 I solution containing the required activity were added.The septum closed vial was heated at 100 C for 20 minutes.2 1 ml of a sterile oxygen free aqueous solution containing 12 mg of sodium citrate and 23 mg of Na2SO4 ml were added to the reaction mixture to obtain a sterile isotonic solution of injectable p11. A labelling of 99 has been obtained. HPLC control showed neither labelled nor unlabelled side products. The composition was stable for at least 24 hours.The composition administrated was used with success for non invasive kidney studies 1 mCi intravenously injec ted . 123 Use of the 1 solution in amounts varying from 2.5 to 50 ul 1 to 20 mCi yielded equal results.EXAMPLE X Kit preparation for an injectable radioiodinated m iodobenzylguanidine lMlIBG solution as well as the use of said solution. The following components were added together in the given sequence 1 2 mg of pure m iodobenzylguanidine sulphate 2 10 mg of L ascorbic acid 3 5 mg of citric acid 4 0.5 mg of SnSO 4 5 500 l of oxygen free water 6 1O l of CuSO4 solution 32.5 mg CuSO4.5H2O 10 ml H2O The above mixture was treated and freeze dried as described in example VIII.The clinical preparation was carried out in two steps I 500 ul of sterile oxygen free water and l0,ul of 123 sterile I solution 4 mCi or 1 ml of a sterile 123 I solution containing the required activity were added. The septum closed vial was heated at 1000f for 20 minutes. 2 1.5 ml of a sterile oxygen free aqueous solution containing 5 mg of sodium citrate and 30 mg of Na2So4 1.5 ml water were added to the reaction mixture to obtain a sterile isotonic solution of injectable pH. A labelling yield of 99 has been obtained. HPLC control did not show any labelled or labelled by products. The composition was stable for at least 15 hours. The composition administered intravenously 4 mCi per 70 kg body weight was used with success for thef scintigra phic diagnosis of neuroblastoma and pheochromocytoma.Use of the 123I solution in amounts varying from 10 to 50 ul 4 to 20 mCi yielded equal results.The above described labelling conditions and clinical pre 131 paration also yielded pure I MIBG 99 labelling yield at a dose of 2 mCi 131I. EXAMPLE Xi Kit preparation for an injectable radioiodinated p iodophenyl pentadecanoic acid PIPPA solution. The following components were added together in a 3 ml vial in nitrogen atmosphere.0.4 mg of p iodophenylpentadecanoic acid 0.6 mg of SnSO4 2.3 mg of L ascorbic acid 50 l of oxygen free water 10 ul of CUSS, solution 32.5 mg CuS04.5H20 10 ml 100 ul ethanol 5 1 iodine 123 labelled sodium iodide solution 2 mCi The septum closed vial was heated at 1000C during 30 minutes A labelling yield of 98.5 was obtained.After cooling down the solution was made up with 1.8 ml of a 6 Human serum albumine solution and sterilised through a 0.22 u filter and recovered in a sterile and pyrogenfree vial filled with nitrogen gas. 123 Use of the L solution in amounts varying from 5 to 50 ul 2 to 25 mCi yielded equal results.EXAMPLE XII Kit preparation for an injectable radioiodinatedN,N trimethyl N 2 hydroxy 3 methyl 5 iodobenzyl 1,3 propa nediamine HIPDM solution, as well as the use of said solution. The following components were added together in the given sequence 1 2 mg of pureA N,N trimethyl N 2 hydroxy 3 methyl 5 iodobenzyl 1,3 propanediamine 2 10 mg of L ascorbic acid 3 5 mg of gentisic acid 4 1 mg of SnS04 5 4.5 mg of sodium citrate.2H20 6 1.2 mg of sodium sulphate 7 1000 ul of oxygen free water 8 40yul of CUSS, solution 32.5 mg CuS04.5H20 l0 mlH20 The above mixture was added through a 0.22 F sterili zing filter to a sterile and pyrogenfree vial and was freeze dried in a sterile nitrogen atmosphere and septum closed under these conditions For clinical preparation 1 ml of sterile oxygen free water and 5 ul of sterile iodine 123 labelled sodium iodide solution 2 mCi or 1 ml of sterile iodine 123 labelled sodium iodide solution containing the required activity were added. The septum closed vial was heated at lOO tC for 30 minutes. The obtained solution is isotonic and of injectable pH. A labelling yield of 998 has been obtained. Neither labelled nor unlabelled side products have been observed.The composition is administered intravenously to a patient 2 to 5 mCi amounts for brainscintigraphy. 123 Use of the I solution in amounts varying from 5 to 50 ul 2 25 mCi yielded equal results.EXAMPLE XIII Radiolodination of mono iodothyrosine The following components were added together in the given sequence 1 0.3 mg of pure mono iodothyrosine 2 10 mg of L ascorbic acid 3 230 l of oxygen free water 4 70 l of CuSO4 solution 32.5 mg CuSO4.5H2O 10 ml 5 radioiodide solution in amounts varying from 5 to 50 l The above mixture was heated in a septum closed vial during 2 minutes at 10000. A labelling yield of more than 99 was obtained. After 10 minutes of heating no side products could be observed.EXAMPLE XIV Radioiodination of di iodothyrosine 0.3 mg of di iodothyrosine was labelled under identical conditions as described for mono iodothyrosine example XIII . A labelling yield of at least 99t was obtained within 2 minutes. EXAMPLE XV Radiodination of diatrizoic acid. The following compounds were added together in the given sequence 1 0.6 mg of pure diatrizoic acid 2 0.6 mg of citric acid 3 280 ul of oxygen free water 4 20 ul of CuS04 solution 32.5 mg CuSO4.5H20 l0 ml 5 radioiodide solution in amounts varying from 5 to 50 ul. The above mixture was heated at 100 C in a septum closed vial during 10 15 minutes. A labelling yield higher than 998 was obtained. No labelled or unlabelled side products could be detected.By comparison diatrizoic acid was radiolabelled according to the method described by Mills Int. J. Appl. Pad.Isot., Vol 33, 1982, pp. 467 468 .0.16 mCi iodine 123 labelled sodiumiodide solution was added to 1 ml of a solution containing 2.5 mg diatrizoic acid and 0.25 mg CuS04. 51120 per ml. Prior to adding the radioiodide the pH of the solution was adjusted to 3.4 with 1 N hydrochloric acid.The mixture was heated for 15 minutes at 1250C.After cooling to room temperature 1.5 ml phosphate buffer 6.185 gram of dibasic sodiumphosphate per 100 ml water was added to adjust the pH to 7.0. The solution was stirred for two minutes and passed through a 0.22 micron filter. The radiochemical purity was determined on HPLC using a Hewlett Packard RP8 10 U dichrosorb column and methanol water acetic acid 5 95 0.15 as the mobile phase. In four similar experiments an average yield of only 82 1 123 diatrizoic acid was found.EXAMPLE XVI Presence of Sn Il in the reaction mixture influence of the presence of higher oxidation states than I on the reaction rate. In addition Sn II can also achieve the reduction of entities with a higher oxidation state than radioiodide, such as radioiodate, which can be present in amounts up to more than 2 38 in commercially available radioiodide solu tion . It renders those species available as iodide for the ucleophilic exchange reaction, e.g. the exchange of lodire by radiolabelled iodine, thus allowing to obtain the high labelling yields mentioned in the Examples before. two determine the influence of Sn II on the radio iodi ation when using 123I solutions of different qualities the radioiodination was carried out as described inExamples VIII to XII with radioiodide solutions from various suppliers. It is well known in the art, that the labe lin5 yields of earlier described methods are influenced by the quality of the radioiodide solutions It has now been found, however, that in the above experiments the labelling yields did not differ substantially.EXAMPLE XVII equipment for preparing an injectable composition The equipment is shown in the Figure, wherein with reference numeral 1 a vial is denoted with an internally conical bottom 2. The vial is sealingly closed with a stopper 3 Stopper 3 of vial 1 comprises a pierceable rubber disk 6, at than upper side covered by an aluminium sheet 7 wherein two apertures 8 and 9 are recessed. A screw cap 10 with a central aperture 11 keeps the rubber disk 6 and the alumi niur. sneet 7 tightly clamped on the upper edge of vial 1. The reaction mixture, e.g the kit preparation together with the radioiodide solution, is accomodated in the vial and the reaction is carried out by heating the reaction mixture at the desired temperature, elg, 100 C. After the reaction is complete, the vial comprises a solution of the product, e g. the radioiodinated product, thus obtained. In tre Figure the supply syringe is denoted with reference numeral 4, the injection syringe with 5. Both syringes are provided with hollow needles 12 and 13 respectively, which can be stuck through the apertures 8 and 9 in the aluminium sheet and through the rubber disk to allow communication of the interior of the syringes with that of the vial. The syringes further comprise cylindrical barrels 14 and 15 respectively, in which plungers, 16 and 17 respectively, are movably positioned.Supply syringe 4 is intended for accomodating a formulation liquid, e.g. an isotonic solution, and is provided with an aperture 18 in the side wall of its barrel 14. The aperture 18 has such a distance from the needle mount, i.e. the mounting means of the needle to the barrel, that in the original position the plunger 16 separates the tperture 18 from the room 19 wherein the formulation li uid is accomodated, whereas said room 19 can be allowed 1z communicate with the atmospheric pressure outside the springe via the aperture by withdrawing plunger 16 up to aBove aperture 18. This latter position of the plunger 16 ie denoted in the Figure in dotted lines. Ir,ection syringe 5 can acomodate the injectable composi tin in room 21 and is provided with a sterilizing filter 22, e.g. of 0.22 u, detachably connected between injec tic needle 13 and the needle mount for mounting the needle to barrel 15. Whe the equipment shown in the Figure is used to prepare an t jectable composition, the stopper 3 of vial 1 is pierced at 8 by needle 12 of supply syringe 4. In the vial a solution of the product to be formulated is accomo date . The supply syringe contains in room 19 a formula tionliquid, e.g. an isotonic solution. The supply syringe is than positioned as shown in the Figure the needle tip does lot contact the solution in the vial. In the same way the needle 13 of injection syringe 15 is stuck through stopper 3 of vial 1 at 9 .The injection syringe is also positoned as shown in the Figure the needle extends into the solution to the conical bottom of the vial so that the needl tip nearly contacts this bottom. Injection sy ringe L5 is empty. Thereupon plunger 16 of syringe 4 is withdrawn up to above aperture 18 dotted lines , resulting in a communication between the formulation liquid in this syringe with the atmospheric pressure. As a consequence of this the formulation liquid flows through the hollow needle 12 into the vial see the arrow and can easily be mixed with the contents cr the vial by shaking this vial.The ineectable composition thus obtained is then transferred from the vial into the injection syringe 5 by withdrawing plunger 17 in the direction of arrow 20. io collect a sterile composition in room 21 of barrel 15 of this injection syringe, the compositon reaches said room 2 via sterilizing filter 22. In a different embodiment of the present invention a erture 18 of supply syringe o can be provided with a sterilizing filter. Then sterilizing filter 22 may be. omitted. This embodiment is preferably used when the contents of vial 1 are already in a sterile condition. Stexilizing filters may be omitted completely, when the eqlmpmen is installed in a sterile room, e.g. in a laminar flow unit.