# The preparation of 1 3,4 dimethoxyphenethyl amino 3 substituted phenoxy 2 propanols.

## Abstract
There is disclosed a process for preparing a compound of the following general formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for preparing a compound of the following general formulaEMI11.1 wherein Z is a lower C 4 alkoxy, chloro, cyano, hydroxyalkyl, acyl, m lower Ca4 alkyl, or o vinylic which process comprises 1 reacting a compound of the following general formulaEMI11.2 with beta 3,4 dimethoxyphenyl ethylamine having the formulaEMI11.3 at a temperature of 20 C or less than 20 C, and 2 adding a minor amount of a seeding agent to the product of step 1 . 2. A process according to Claim 1, whereinZ is meta lower alkyl. 3. A process for preparing 1 1 3,4 dimethoxyphenethyl amino 3 m tolyloxy 2 propanol I of the following formula EMI11.4 which process comprises 1 reacting 3 m tolyloxy 1,2 epoxypropane 11 of the following formula EMI12.1 with beta 3,4 dimethoxyphenyl ethylamine III of the following formula EMI12.2 at a temperature of 20 C or less than 20 C and 2 adding a minor amount of a seeding agent to the product of step 1 . 4. A process according to Claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the temperature employed during the step a is in the range from 0 C to 200C. 5. A process according to Claim 1, 2, 3 or 4, wherein the temperature employed during step 1 is in the range from 5 C to 10 C. 6. A process according to any preceding claim, wherein step 2 is repeated until crystallization occurs. 7. A process according to Claim 6, wherein, following crystallization, the crystallized product is heated to a temperature of at least 25 C until the reaction is substantially complete. 8. A process according to any preceding claim, further comprising the step of 3 recovering the principal reaction product. 9. A process according to Claim 8, further comprising the step of 4 producing a pharmaceutically acceptable derivative of the product of step 3 . 10. A process according to any preceding claim, wherein compound II is prepared by reacting m cresol with epichlorohydrin. 11. A process according to any preceding claim, wherein stoichiometric amounts are employed in step 1 . 12. 1 3,4 dimethoxyphenethyl aminol 3 m tolyloxy 2 propanol whenever prepared by a process according to any preceding claim.

## Description
THE PREPARATION OF 1 3 4 DIMETHOXYPHENETHYL AMINO 3 SUBSTITUTED PHENOXY 2 PROPANOLS The compound, 1 3,4 dimethoxyphenethyl amino 3 n tolyloxy 2 propanol, Eevantolol, is described and claimed in US Patent 3,857,691. The two methods described in the patent for preparing this compound give low yields produce undesirable side products and require the use of prolonged heating and an excess of expensive starting amine reactant for optimum yield. A portion of the excess starting material may be recovereat for example by vacuum distillation, however this procedure is cumbersome and expensive especially when carried out on a large scale, i.e., manufacturing scale. Bevantolol and derivatives thereof, e.g., acidaddition salts, such as hydrochlorides, are pbarmaco logical agents exhibiting beta adrenergic blocking function with cardio selective activity. It has been discovered that the preparation ofBevantolol I EMI1.1 and the subsequent preparation of derivatives thereof can be carried out via the reaction of 3 m tolyloxy 1,2 epoxypropane It EMI1.2 with beta 3,4 dimethoxyphenyl ethylamine III EMI2.1 in which the initial contacting of the reactants, compounds II and III, takes place at relatively low temperature, i.e., at a temperature on the order of OC to 20 C with temperatures of about 50 to about lO0C highly preferred. In one embodiment, a two step process is employed.Step 1 involves the production of 3 m tolyloxy 1,2 epoxypropane II . The preferred method of production is set forth below instep 11EMI2.2 Step 2 involves the reaction of compound II with beta 3,4 dimethoxyphenyl ethylamine III to yieldBevantolol I . The principal reaction is Step 2 EMI2.3 Step 2 takes place at a temperature between about 50C and about lOC. In this embodiment, the temperature of the amineepoxide reaction is kept at 100C and the mixture is seeded with crystals of Bevantolol base. This causes flevantolol base to crystallize out of solution upon formation, thus preventing further reaction with the epoxide. After adding hexane and raising the temperature to 250C to finish off the reaction, the free base is isolated and converted to Bevantolol hydrochloride in isopropyl alcohol. The overall yield is 78 79 . ADVANTAGES OF THE INVENTION The process of the invention has several advantages over known methods of making Bevantolol derivatives thereof. Principal among these advantages are 1. The inventive process gives improved yields or conversion values compared to processes involving the use of reaction temperatures of about 250C or more during initial contacting. 2. me e instant process uses less energy then conventional processes because prolonged heating is minimized. 3. The e new process can be carried out using a primary amine reactant, thereby obviating the need to block the free amino group. Accordingly, there is no need for two or more separate steps which comprise blocking the free amino group with a benzyl group, then re moving the benzyl group by, e.g., catalytic reduction.An example of such a removal is the debenzylation ofN benzyl 1 3,4 dimethoxyphenethyl amino 3 at tolyloxy 2 propanol intermediate. DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION tBevantololZ is the United States Adopted Name USAN recited in the United States PharmacologicalDictionary of Drug Names, 1982, pg. 61, Mack PrintingCompany, Easton, Pennsylvania 18042, USA for the compound l 3 ,4 dimethoxyphenethyl aminoj 3 m tolyloxy 2 propanol I EMI4.1 The substituent in the 3 substituted phenoxy group An Bevantolol and its derivatives can be selected from a variety of moieties. Preferred substituents include lower alkoxy, chloro, cyano, hydroxyalkyl e.g., hydroxymethyl , acyl e.g., acetyl , m lower alkyl, or o vinylic e.g, r allylic moieties. Bevantolol and its derivatives are described inU.S. Patent 3,857,891, the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference. The overall process described herein involves 1l contacting compounds II and IlI at a temperature of 200C or less 2 adding to the product or step 1 a minor amount of compound I following step t1 and 3 recovering the principal reaction product. Optionally, the principal reaction product is employed to produce other pharmaceutically acceptable derivatives, e.g., salts.Reactants The starting material generally employed in the process of the invention include at least one epoxide reactant and at least one amine reactant. The epoxide reactants useful herein include 3 m tolyloxy 1,2 epoxypropane II and those chemically equivalent forms thereof in which the substituents present do not significantly hamper the reactive t of the epoxide with compound rir or its chemical equivalents. The epoxid reactant used herein may be obtained from commercial sources. Alternatively, the epoxide reactant can be prepared by reacting one or more suitable hydroxysubstituted aromatic compounds, i.e., phenols, with one or more halogen containing epoxy compounds. A typical reaction would involve the reaction of a cresol, e.g., m cresol, and an epihalohydrin, e.g., epichlorohydrin, under suitable conditions. Suitable conditions for the preparation of the epoxide reactant are well known in the art. Suitable amine reactants are generally amines bearing one or more organic substituents, at least one of which comprises a substituted phenyl alkylene moiety. Preferred amines are monoamines having disubstituted phenyl alkylene groups as substituents. One highly preferred class of amines are those containing 3,4 dialkoxyalkylene groups, with beta 3,4 dimethoxyphenyl ethylamine being exemplary. Following the preparation of the Bevantolol, one or more reagents can be added to yield salts or other acib addition products. Useful salt producing agents include mineral acids, with hydrogen halides, especially hydrogen chloride, preferred. One preferred derivative of Bevantolol which can be made in accordance with the invention is the pharmaceutically active substance Bevantolol hydrochloride,EMI5.1 For all of the reactions described wherein, the reactants are supplied in approximately stóichiometric quantities. However, excesses of one or more can be employed. It is generally preferred that step 1 be carried out using little or no excess epoxide or amine reactant l.e., using stoichiometric or equimolor amounts. The use of an excess of either reactant produces undesirable and often difficultly separable by products. The use of excess epoxide reactant can yield a bis hydroxyalkylated product. The use of excess amine, while less deleterious than the use of excess epoxide, can result in the production of contaminants which can hamper recovery operations.Reaction Conditions It is essential to the efficiency of the instant process that the initial contacting of epoxide and amine reactant take place at a temperature lower than room temperatures, i.e., about 250C or less. The e use of relatively low temperatures during the initial phase of the reaction dramatically improves product yieldsWhile temperatures of about OOC to about 200C are operable, it is generally preferred to operate, in the initial reaction stage, at temperatures of about 5 C to about 150 C, with temperatures of about 5 C to about 10 C highly preferred. The length of time for which various phases of the overall process are carried out can vary a great deal.Reaction parameters such as reaction times, pressures, etc. depend upon the nature of the specific reactants, and upon such factors as the types of reaction vessel s employed, and the method of recovery to be employed. Generally, the overall time neeaed for the principal reaction i.e., Step 2t under tme Invention, above ranges from about 5 minutes to about 20 hours. Typically the low temperature contacting and reaction phase takes place for about 5 to about 15 hours, with time periods of about 10 hours highly preferred. After the initial reaction phase, the product mixture is seeded by adding Bevantolol free base. me quantity of base added can be determined by routine experimentation. Generally, a quantity or incremental quantities of seeding agent are employed, with the total amount added being in excess of the quantity needed to start crystallization of the Bevantolol in the product mixture. Useful total quantities of free Bevantolol or other seeding agent lie between about 0 and about 18 by weight, based on the total weight of the reaction product, with about 0.001 weight to about 0.008 weight preferred and 0.005 weight t highly preferred. When seeding agent is added in increments, the use of several increments, with additions at intervals of one to several hours can be employed. Generally, about 2 to about 5 increments are added, with the use of 3 increments made in 2 hour intervals highly preferred.Seeding can be carried out over short or extended periods of time until it is completed. Seeding is completed when seed remains substantially undissolved, i.e., until seed no longer dissolves. Bevantolol hydrochloride and or other seeding additives may replace some or all of the Bevantolol to be added. Following the addition of the seeding agent conventional recovery procedures can be employed. One preferred method calls for the addition of hexane or another suitable non solvent diluent to produce a slurry. The e slurry is stirred and heated during or after the addition of the diluent. After moderate heating, i.e. to a temperature on the order of 25 C, the slurry is collected via filtration, and subjected to vacuum drying and or other suitable techniques. The solid product can be used as such or it can then be reacted with one or more suitable chemicals to produce other pharmaceutically acceptable derivatives, e.g., salts, thereof. Purification via, e.g., recrystallization, can be carried out before and or after the derivative is produced. EXAMPLES The following examples will serve to further illustrate the invention.Example 1 Preparation of 3 m tolyloxy l, 2 epoxypropane To a solution of 50 g 1.25 mol of NaOB in 1200 mlH20 was added 108 g 1 mol of m cresol freshly distilled and at 150C in one lot 117 ml mol of epichlorohydrin. The emulsion was stirred at room temperature for 16 hours in a creased flask. The product was taken up in 1000 ml of toluene and washed with 500 ml water. Distillation yielded 135.7 g 828 of product, bp 610C 0,05 mm .Example 2 Preparation of Bevantolol Hydrochloride in Accordance with the Invention To a suitable reactor under a nitrogen blanket is added 13.7 kg of beta 3,4 dimethoxyphenyl ethylamine. The amine is cooled to 50C and 12.5 kg of 3 m tolyloxy l,2 epoxypropane is added maintaining the temperature between 5 100C. After 10 hours, the mixture is seeded with Bevantolol free base seeding is repeated approximately every 2 hours until it is evident that crystallization has started. After stirring for 48 hours at LOGO, 26L of hexane is added. The temperature is raised to 250C and stirring is continued for 48 hours. The slurry is filtered and the collected solid is dried under vacuum. The product is dissolved in 60L of isopropyl alcohol and the solution is filtered. The reactor and filter are rinsed with 1861 of isopropyl alcohol and 2.7 kg of anhydrous hydrogen chloride is added to the combined filtrate. The e batch is heated to reflux for i hours. The temperature is adjusted to 65 and the solution is seeded with Bevantolol hydrochloride crystals. The mixture is held at this temperature with stirring until a heavy sand like slurry is present.The mixture is allowed to cool to ambient tewperature without stirring or artificial cooling. It is then cooled to ZOOC, The e slurry is centrifuged and the product rinsed with isopropyl alcohol until the filtrate is colorless. After being vacuum dried at 50 550C the product is milled if necessary yield of Bevantolol hydrochloride 22.7 Kg 78.6 . COMPARATIVE EXAMPLESExample 3 A mixture of 40.1 g 0.2 mol of l chlor3 m tolyloxy 2 propanol and 72.4 g 0.4 mol of 3,4 dimethoxyphenethylamine is heated at 95 1000C for 18 hours, cooled ant then stirred with ethyl acetate.Insoluble 3,4 d imethoxyphenethyl amine hydrochloride is removed by filtration. The filtrate is washed with water, dried, and evaporated to give a residue of 1 3,4 dimethoxyphenethyl amino 3 m tolyloxy 2 p ropanol. The hydrochloride is obtained by dissolving this free base in 2 propanol and adding a slight excess of hydrogen chloride in 2 propanol. The insoluble hydrochloride salt is collected on a filter, washed with diethyl ether, and dried mp 137 1380C following crystallization from acetonitrile, yield 44.4 grams, 58 based on the starting alcohol or 29 when based on the starting amine.Example 4 A mixture of 8.2 g 0.05 mol of 1,2 epovy 3 m tolyloxypropane and 9.05 g 0.05 mol of 3,4 dimethoxyphenethylamine is heated at 950C 1000C for one hour, cooled, and then stirred with ether. The rnsolubie product is collected on a filter. It is 1 3,4 d im ethoxy phene thyl aminol 3 m tolyl oxy 2 propanol. The hydrochloride is obtained by dissolving this Example 1 of U.S. Patent 3,857,891 Example 2 of U.S. Patent 3,857,891 free base in 2 propanol and adding a slight excess of hydrogen chloride in 2 propanol. The insoluble hydrochloride salt is collected on a filter washed with diethyl ether, and dried mp 137 138µC following crystallization from acetonitrile. Yield variable, but does not exceed 50 .Example 5 A solution of 16.4 g 0.1 mol of 3 m tolyloxy 1,2 epoxypropane and 18.1 g 0.1 mol of 3,4 dimethoxyphenethylamine in 50 ml of toluene was allowed to stand at room temperature for two days. The reaction mixture was diluted with 100 ml of toluene, washed with 2X25 ml portions of water, the toluene was evaporated, the crude product dissolved in 250 ml ethyl acetate or 70 ml 2propanol and anhydrous EC1 introduced with cooling. The product was filtered, washed with 100 ml ethyl acetate and dried at 700C to give 184 48t of crude product, mp 130 1320 C. Re crystallization from acetonitrile gave 16.6 g 43.5 of product with mp 137 138 C. Reasonable variations, such as those which would occur to a skilled artisan, can be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention.