# N Arylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1H isoindole 1,3 2H diones, processes for their preparation and their use as plant growth regulators.

## Abstract
A novel class of N arylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1H isoindole 1,3 2H diones which are useful as plant growth regulators have the general structural formula

## Claims
Claims 1.. Compounds which have the structural formula EMI29.1 in which R1 is C1 to C4 alkyl, nitro or halo and n is zero or an integer from 1 to 4R2 and R3 are H or C1 to C4 alkyl, or benzyl andAr is adamantyl, C3 to C4 alkyl or alkenyl, benzyl, halo benzyl, naphthyl, phenyl or phenyl bearing thereon from one to three of the substituents cyano, benzyloxy, nitro, bromo, chloro trif,luorontethyl and C1 to C4 alkyl, alkenyl, alkoxy, alkylthio and alkyl substituted amino. 2. The method of regulating the growth of plants comprising applying to the plants, the seed or the soil an effective amount of a compound as specified in Claim 1. 3. N phenylthiocarbomoyl 2 amino 1H isoindole1,3 2H dione. 4. N 4 Methylphenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1Hisoindole 1,3 2H dione. 5. N 4 Fluorophenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1H isoindole l,3 2H dione. 6. N 3 Methylphenylthiuocarbamoyl 2 amino 1H isoindole l, 3 2H dione. 7. N 2 Chlorophenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1H isoindole l,3 2H dione. 8. N Methyl N phenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 9. 4 Nitro N phenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1Hisoindole 1,3 2H9 dione. 10. 5 Methyl N methyl N phenylthiocarbamoyl 2amino 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 11. 4 Methyl N phenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino lH isoindole l,3 2H dione. 12 4 Methyl N methyl N phenylthiocarbamoyl 2amino 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 13. N Methyl N 3 fluorophenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino lH isoindole l,3 2H dione. 14. N Methyl N 4 fluorophenylthiocarbamoyl 2amino lH isoindole l, 3 2H dione. 15. N Methyl N N methylphenylthiocarbamoyl 2amino 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 16. N Methyl N phenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1Hisoindole 1,3 2H dione. 17. N N Methylphenylthiocyrbamoyl 2 amino 1H isoindole 1, 3 2H dione. 18. 4,7 Dichloro N methyl N phenylthiocarbamyl 2 amino 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 19. 4 Fluoro N phenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1H isoindole l, 3 2H dione. 20. N 3 Fluorophenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1H isoindole 1, 3 2H dione. 21. N 3 Trifluoromethylphenylthiocyrbamoyl 2amino 1H isondole 1,3 2H dione. 22. N 3 Chlorophenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1H isoindole l, 3 2H dione. 23. N,4 Dimethyl N N methylphenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 24. N 2, 4 Dimethylphenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino lH isoindole l, 3 2H dione. 25 N 3 Chloro 4 methylphenylthioearbamoy 1 2amino lH isoindole l, 3 2IT dione. 26. N 3,4 Dichlorophenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino lH isoindole l,3 2H dione 27. N 1 Naphthylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1Hisoindole 1,3 2H dione. 28. N 2, 5 Dichlorophenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amir.c 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 29. N 4 Bromophenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1H isoindole l, 3 2H diane 30. N Methyl N 2,6 dimethylphenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 31. N Adamantylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1H isoindole l, 3 2H diane 32. N Hydroxyethyl N phenylthiocarbamoyl 2amino 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 33. N Methyl N 2,3 dimethylphenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 34. N Methyl N 2,4,5 trimethylphenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1Hisoindole 1,3 2H dione. 35. N Methyl N 2 ,5 dimethylphenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 36. N Benzyl N phenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 37. N Methyl N tert. butylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 38. N Methyl N 4 nitrophenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amine 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 39. N Methyl N 3 chloro 4 methylphenyl thiocarbamoyl 2 amino lH isoindole 1,3 2H dionet 40. N Methyl N 3, 4 dimethylphenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 41. N Methyl N 3,5 dimethylphenylthiocyrbamoyl 2 amino 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 42. N Methyl N 3 ethylphenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino lH isoindole l, 3 2HYdione. 43. N 4 Chlorophenythylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino1h isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 44. N Methyl N phenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino4,5,6,7 tetrachloro 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 45. N Allylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 46. N 4 Methoxyphenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1Hisoindole 1,3 2H dione. 47. N 2 Methyl 3 chlorophenylthiocyrbamoyl 2 amino 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 48. N 4 Isopropylphenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 49. N 2 Chloro 6 methylphenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione 50. N Methyl N 4 methoxyphenylthiocyrbamoyl 2 amino 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 51. N Methyl N 2 chloro 4 methylphenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 52. N Methyl N 4 chlorophenylthiocarbamoyl 2amino 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 53. N 3 Benzyloxyphenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 54. N 3 Nitrophenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1Hisoindole 1,3 2H dione. 55. N 4 Benzyloxyphenylthiocarbamoyl 1Hisoindole 1,3 2H dione. 56. N 4 Chloro 3 trifluoromethylphenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 57. N 2,4 Dichlorophenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 58. N 2 Trifluoromethylphenlthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 59. N 3 Chlorobenzylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 60. N 3 Methoxyphenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1Hisoindole 1,3 2H dione. 61. N Methyl N phenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino4 fluoro 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 62. N 3,5 Dimethylphenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino lH i soindole l,3 2H dione. 63. N 3 Methylthiophenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 64. N 2 Chloro 4 methylphenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 65. N 4 Cyanophenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1Hisoindole 1,3 2H dione. 66. N 4 Trifluoromethylphenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 67. N 4 Chloro 2 methylphenylthiocarbamoyl 2amino 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 68. N 4 Ethoxyphenylthioocarbamoyl 2 amino 1Hisoindole 1,3 2H dione. 69. N 2 Fluorophenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 70. N 3,4 Methylenedioxyphenylthiocarbamoyl 2amino 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 71. The method of regulating the growth of plants as in claim 2 wherein the set of fruit on crop plants is increased by applying to the foliage of growing plants an effective amount of a compound of claim 1. 72. The method as in claim 71 wherein the plant is SoJa max. 73. The method as in claim 71 wherein the plant is Lycopersicum esculentum. 74. A plant growth regulating composition comprising an agriculturally acceptable adjuvant and an effective amount of a compound of claim 1. 75. The method of manufacturing compounds which have the structural formula EMI34.1 in which R1is C1 to C4 alkyl, nitro or halo and n is zero or an integer from 1 to 4R2 and R3 are H or C1 to Cq alkyl, or benzyl andAr is adamantyl, C3 to C4 alkyl or alkenyl, benzyl, halo benzyl, naphthyl, phenyl or phenyl bearing thereon from one to three of the substituents cyano, benzyloxy, nitro, bromo, chloro, trifluoromethyl and C1 to C4 alkyl, alkenyl, alkoxy, alkylthio and alkyl substituted amino characterized by one of the following steps 1 Reacting a compound of the formulaEMI34.2 in a mutual solvent with a compound of the formulaEMI34.3 in the presence of an acid acceptor or with a compound of the formula SCN FY, 2 Reacting a compound of the formulaEMI35.1 with a compound of the formulaEMI35.2 in a mutual solvent. 3 Reacting a compound of the formulaEMI35.3 with a compound of the formulaEMI35.4 in a mutual solvent in the presence of an acid acceptor. 4 Ring closure of a compound having the corresponding structural formula EMI35.5 in which X represents a good leaving group in which an electronegative atom is attached to the carbon atom of the carbonyl structure, by reacting in a non reactive organic solvent with a condensing agent which may be heat, a basic catalyst or, when X is OH, a dehydrating agent. 76. The method of manufacturing compounds having the general structural formula EMI36.1 in whichRÚ is C1 to C4 alkyl or alkoxy, nitro, cyano or halo and n is zero or an integer from 1 to 4 R2 arrid R3 are H or C1 to C4 alkyl, or benzyl andAr is adamantyl, C3 to C4 alkyl or alkenyl, benzyl, halo benzyl, naphthyl, phenyl or phenyl bearing there on from one to three of the substituents cyano, benzyloxy, nitro, bromo, chloro, trifluoromethyl. and C1 to C4 alkyl, alkenyl, alkoxy, alkylthio, alkoxycarbonyl and alkyl substituted amino, by räng closure of a compound having the corresponding structural formula EMI36.2 in which X represents a good leaving group in which an electronegative atom is attached to the carbon atom of the carbonyl structure, characterized in that cyclization of a compound of the structural formula EMI37.1 is accomplished by reacting under mildly basic.conditions at a temperature below 500C. in the presence of a nonreactive polar organic solvent and a hindered aliphatic amine. 77. The method of claim 76 in which R is methyl, the solvent is acetone, ethyl acetate or tetrahydrofuran, the amine is tert.butyamine and the cyclization is performed at room temperature. 78. The method of claim 76 in which R is methyl or ethyl, the solvent is tetrahydrofuran, the amine is tert.butylamine and the cyclization is performed at room temperature 79. The method of claim 76 in which R is methyl, the solvent is acetone, the amine is tert . butylamine and the cyclization is performed at room temperature. 80. A method according to claim 75 for, preparins a compound of claims 3 to 70 inclusive. 81. An agricultural formulation containing as an active ingredient from O.i to 95 by weight of a compound which has the structural formula EMI37.2 in which R1 is C1 to C, alkyl, nitro or halo and n is zero or an integer from 1 to 4R2 and R3 are H or C1 to Cq alkyl, or benzyl andAr is adamantyl, C3 to C4 alkyl or alkenyl, benzyl, halo benzyl, naphthyl, phenyl or phenyl bearing thereon from one to three of the substituents cyano, benzyloxy, nitro, bromo, chloro trifluoromethyl and C1 to C4 alkyl, alkenyl, alkoxy, alkylthio and alkyl substituted amino. 82. A compound of formula I substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to any one of Examples 1 to 8 or Table I. 83. A process for preparing a compound of formula I substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to any on of Examples 1 to 8. 84. A compound of formula I whenever prepared by a process according to Claim 75. 85. A method of regulating the growth of plants substantially as hereinbefore described with reference toTables I and II.

## Description
ARAYLTHIOCARBAMOYL 2 AMINO iH ISOLINDOLE 1,3 2H DIONES AND USE AS PLANT GROWTH REGULAmORS Growth regulating effects have been observed upon application of many chemical substances to plants. In general, very few of these substances can be used with benefit to the plants which are affected. In most instances the beneficial effects, if any, are minor and the major effects are so drastic that the compounds can only be used for the destruction of the plants. Examples of growth regulator compounds with drastic effects which have become useful as herbicides are 2,4 D, EPTC and alachior. Among the potential commercial uses for growth regulator compounds with less drastic effects are the following Increase or induce flowering pineapple . Increase blossom set, pod set, seed set, and or fruit set prevent abortion of flowers or withered blossoms . Increase size of fruits, vegetables, seed, and or tubers grapes, soybeans, sugar beets, etc . Decrease size of fruit, vegetables, seed, and or tubers potatoes, and grapefruits . Increase number of tillers cereals . Increase number of shoots from crown alfal a Increase branching soybeans or widen branches apples . Reduce height shortened internodes in crops ana ornamentals cereals and mums . Growth retardent turf, cotton, perennial legumes in no till corn . Enhance yields of corn by larger ears, better filled ears and or more ears per plant Increase nutritive value of seeds, fruits, vegetables, forages, etc protein content . Reduce transpiration drought resistance . Reduce respiration potatoes or sugar beets in storage We have discovered a group of novel compounds which display a great variety of growth regulating effects, indicating utility for many purposes1 including uses mentioned aboveThe present invention is directed to these novel compounds, including methods of manufacture, as well as methods and formulations for plant growth regulation. Briefly, the novel class of growth regulator compounds has the general structural formula EMI2.1 in which R1 is C1 to C4 altyl, nitro or halo and n is zero or an integer from 1 to 4 22 and R3 are H or C1 to C4 alkyl, or benzyl andAr is adamantyl, C3 to C4 alkyl or alkenyl, benzyl, halo benzyl, naphthyl, phenyl or phenyl bearing thereon from one to three of the substituents cyanor benzyloxy, nitro, bromo, chloro, trifluoronethyl and C1 to C4 alkyl, alkenyl, alkoxy, alkylthio and alkyl substituted amino. The aforementioned compounds are employed to regulate the growth of plants by applying an effective amount to the plants, the seed or the soil, preferably in combin ation with an inert carrier or diluent and a surface active agent, according to customary practice in the art. Synthesis of the Growth Regulators The novel compounds of this invention may be produced from commercially available raw materials by means of procedures based on those outlined and specifically illustrated below Among methods by which the compounds of formula I may be made are the following 1. Reacting a compound of the formulaEMI3.1 in a mutual solvent with a compounds of the tormulaEMI3.2 in the presence of an acid acceptor or with a compound of the formula SCN Ar. 2 Reacting a compound of the formulaEMI3.3 with a compound of the formulaEMI3.4 in a mutual solvent. 3. Readting a compound of the formulaEMI3.5 with a compound of the formulaEMI3.6 in a mutual solvent in the presence of an acid acceptor In the methods outlined above, variation in t substituent groups R1 and R3 may in some instances great affect the driving force on the desired reaction. Some the reactions may be operated in specific instances with yields of 50 percent or better at room temperature or below, depending principally upon the nature of these two sub stituents. The synthesis of N phenylthiocarbamoyl or substituted phenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1H isoindole 1,3 t2H dione III , that is, the case of Structure I where R1, and R3 all are hydrogen, has been accomplished by reacting 2 amino 1H isoindole 1,3 2H done II with the corresponding aryl isothiocyanates. The preparation of starting material II was accomplished by the reactions phthalimide with hydrazine in alcohol at 5C to give TI in 70 yield with high purity. The literature procedure,J. Chem. Soc., 587 1937 , requires heting to reflux and gives a low 45 yield.EMI4.1 In the case of Structure I with n being equal to zero and R2 being alkyl, special methods of preparation are required, as discussed below. According to two other schemes, the desired comw pounds, were formed from intermediate compounds of the formulaEMI5.1 N Methyl N phenyl N methylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1H isondole 1,3 2H dione VI was obtained in a single step by reacting phthalic anhydride with N, l dimethyl N phenylhydrazinethiocarboxamide V in chloroform. Similarly, commercially available ring substituted phthalic anhydrides and substituted 2 carbometh oxybenzoyl chlorides, made by conventional methods may be condensed with N methyl and l methylhydrazinethiocarboxamides to give the corresponding specific compounds of formula I , as in the following outline of synthesis procedures.EMI5.2 Below are specific illustrative procedures. The identity of the product was confirmed in each example by means of infrared and nuclear magnetic resonance spectraAll melting points are uncorrected.2 Amino 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione II To an ice cold suspension of 14.7g 0.1 mole of phthalimide in 100 ml of 958 ethyl alcohol at 50C, with stirring, 3.6 ml 0.11 mole of 96.8 hydrazine was added dropwise. A slight exothermic reaction was observed and the mixture was allowed to stir at 50C for two hours The mixture was diluted with 200 ml of ice water, stirred, filtered1 washed with water and dried to give 12.2g 75 of white powder, m.p. 199 202 . Recrystallization from methanol water gave white needles, m.p. 201 2030. N Phenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione III To a suspension of 8.2g 0.05 mole of II in 50 ml of dry 2 propanol, 6 ml 0.05 mole of phenyl isothiocyanate was added. The mixture was stirred, and ref fluxed for 3 hours, allowed to cool to room temperature and poured into 300 ml of 50 ethyl alcohol. After stirring for one hour, the solid which formed was filtered, washed with water and dried to give 12.lg 818 of the desired product as a white powder, m.p. 180 181 . Intermediate compounds of the type represented by the formulaEMI6.1 may be made by procedures of the type which are specifically illustrated below. N,1 Dimethyl N phenylhydrazinethiocarboxamide V To a solution of N methyl N phenylthiocarbayl chloride 79.6g 0.43m in 250 ml dry ether, a solution of 39.5g 0.86m methylhydrazine in 100 ml of dry ether was added dropwise with stirring below 100C. The reaction temperature was allowed to increase to room temperature and filtered. The filtrate was evaporated to low volume and diluted with 300 ml hexane. After stirring for a few hours the hexane layer was decanted The hexane immiscible layer was reevacuated to remove organic solvents, giving the desired product, 70.0g as a thick orange liquid, 1 Methyl N phenylhydrazinethiocarboxamide VII is prepared by a procedure similar to the foregoing.The following procedure is illustrative of the preparation of an intermediate in which R2 is HN Methyl N phenylhydrazinethiocarboxamide To a solution of 7.7g 0.24m anhydrous hydrazine in 200 ml of dry ether, N methyl N phenylthiocarbamyl chloride 20.4g O.llm was added below 50C with stirring. The mixture was stirred and allowed to warm to room temperature. The mixture was filtered and the reside resuspended in 6100 ml water and stirred Filtration gave 8.8g of the desired product as whitish powder, m.p 121 22 . The following procedures are illustrative of the use of the intermediates of the formulaEMI7.1 N Methyl N phenylthìocarbamoyl 2 amino 4 methyl lH isoindole l, 3 2H dione CVIII To a solution of 6.8g 0.037 mole of 1 methyl N phenylhydra zinethiocarboxamide VII and 3.0g of pyridine in 100 ml dry dimethoxyethane, 2 carbomethoxy 6 methyl benzoyl chloride 8.0g, 0.037 mole was added and the resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for hours. The solvent was distilled and the residue was taken up in ethyl acetate, filtered and dried on anhydrous magnesium sulfate. Removal of the solvent gave lOg 83 of the desired product, m.p. 110 115 dec. . N Methyl N phenyl N methylthïocarbamoyl 2 aminG lH isoindole 1,3 2H dione VI To a slurry of 5.9g 0.04 mole of phthalic anhydride in 50 ml of dry chloroform, N,1 dimethyl N phenyl hydrazinethiocarboxamide 7.8g, 0.04 mole V was added dropwise with stirring at room temperature to give an exothermic reaction. The mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight to give a clear solution. The solution was diluted with 250 ml of hexane to give an oily product. Decantation of the organic layer and extraction of the residue with 3 x 50 ml of anhydrous ether, filtration of thevether extracts and dilution with hexane precipitated the desired product.Filtration, washing with hexane and drying gave 8.6g 66 of solid, m.p. 175 176 . A general method of manufacturing the compounds of formula I is 4 The ring closure of a compound of the formulaEMI8.1 in which X represents a good leaving group in which an electronegative atom is attached to the carbon atom of the carbonyl structure. For example, X may represent a group OR or SR of an ester or thioester or an OH or SH structure of an acid or thio acid, or a group O CO R of a mixed anhydride.The attachment of X may change or be a transitory event in the course of a ring closure reaction as when X is originally OH and an acid anhydride is use as a dehydrating reagent to promote ring closure When X is other than OH, basic catalysts organic or inorganic or heat alone may be sufficient to effect ring closureWhen X is OH, use of dehydrating reagents is preferred to promote ring closure.A generally useful laboratory me involves the ring closure step illustrated below EMI9.1 In a atypical example, the above reaction is performed at low temperature, about 2 5 C. in the presence of N,N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide and allowed to warm up to room temperature on standing Yields may be cs high as about 60 percent as illustrated in the following specific procedure.N Methyl N phenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione IV To an ice cold solution of 8.25g 0.025 mole of 2 2 carboxybenzoyl 1 methyl N phenylhydrazinethiocarboxamide in 225 ml of 1,2 dimethoxyethane at 2 C, a solution of 5.5g 0.027 mole of N,N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide was added dropwise below 5 C with stirring. The mixture was stirred in the ice bath and then left at room temperature overnight. The mixture was filtered to remove NwN dicyclo hexylurea and the filtrate was evaporated below 400C, under vaduum, to give a yellow amorphous solid which was stirred in 100 ml of dry ether and warmed gently.The ether solution was allowed to stand for a few hours and filtere to give 4,6g 59 of whitish yellow crystals, m.p. 142 144 . Recrystallization from ethyl acetate hexane gave whitish crystals, m.p. 151 1530, Mass spectrum M 3ll In the manufacture of N aryl or alkylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1H isoindole 1,3 2H diones of the type represented by the formulaEMI10.1 by ring closure of a corresponding ortho carbonyl substituted benzoylhydrazine thiocarboxamide, greatly improved yields are obtained by cyclization of a corresponding ortho carbo Cl C alkoxybenzoyl hydrazinethiocarboxamide under very mild basic conditions in the presence of a non reactive polar organic solvent and a reaction promoting amount of a hindered aliphatic amine. The operation of the improved method of manufacture is illustrated by means of the following specific examples. Example 1 To a solution of 3.0g 0.0087 mole of 2 o carbo methoxybenzoyl l methyl N phenylhydrazinethiocarboxamide in 75 ml of tetrahydrofuran, was added 0.065g 0.00087 mole of tert.butylamine and the reaction was allowed to stir at room temperature for 16 hours The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the yellow residue was dissolved in a small amount of acetone and the product precipitated with dil. hydrochloric acid. The resulting solid was collected, stirred in water, filtered and dried to give 2.4g 888 o N Methyl N phenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino lH isoindole 1,3 2H dione, m.p. 150 153 . Examples 2 7 The foregoing procedure was repeated with various ortho carbarboalkoxybenzoyl hydrazinethiocarboxamides according to the following scheme EMI11.1 Results are tabulated below.Example R Rê Y Yield 2 CH3 CH3 H 95 2 2R5 cH3 H good by NMR not isolated 4 n C4H9 CH3 H 75 Iby NMR not isolated 5 CH3 benzyl H 100 6 CH3 CH3 2,6 diCH3 75 7 CH3 H 3 C1 95 The success of the improved method depends upon avoidance of competing reactions which may occur if the specified conditions are not complied with. In general, the method can be operated within the limits of ambient daytime temperatures. However, at temperatures in excess of 50 C.a different reaction occurs, with the release of an aryl isothiocyanate by product. For best results, room temperature, that is the temperature of rooms for human habitation, is preferred. The solvent should be polar, so that the amine employed to promote the reaction can produce the desired mildly basic conditions. However, the solvent should be non reactive in the system. Alcohols, for example, are unsuitable and dimethoxyethane yields impure products.Solvents which have proved to be acceptable are ethyl acetate, toluene, acetone and tetrahydrofuran. The amine should have sufficient basic strength to promote the ring closure. However, an unhindered primary or secondary basic amine will compete with the amide nitrogen in the starting material to prevent ring closure.For example, piperidine and n propylamine react to give the corresponding amides, thus effectively preventing the ring closure. No reaction is observed with pyridine. Examples of suitable amines are tert.butyamine, diisopropylamine, triethylamine, 1,4 diazobicyclo 2,2,2 actane and isopropylamine. The structures of these are hindered with respect to amide formation as a competing reaction. Among the suitable reaction solvents and hindered aliphatic amines, certain combinations are more desirable than others. For example, use of tert.butylamine is preferred with acetone, ethyl acetate or tetrahydrofuran as solvent and acetone is the preferred solvent for use with triethylamine. The following example is illustrative of a procedure employing larger quantities of reagents and witch acetone as a reaction solvent. Example 8 The following were charged to a five liter reaction flask 1000 my. of acetone1 280 g. of 2 o carbomethoxybenzoyl I methyl N phenylhydrazinethiocarboxamide and 8 6 ml. of tert.butylamine. Complete solution wes obtained in about 20 minutes. The mixture was then allowed to stir at room temperature over night. At the end of this time, some solid was visible in the reactor. Two liters of water were added causing the temperature to rise to 35 C. The reaction mixture was then cooled to 10 C. and the solid product was collected by filtration. The product was washed on the filter with water, then with isopropyl alcohol, then again with water and was dried in an oven at 500C. There was obtained 213.lg of product 84 yield , m.p. 155 156 C. d. The carbomethoxybenzoyl thiosemicarbazide starting material for the present process may be obtained conveniently by reacting the corresponding methyl phthaloyl chloride with a suitable thiosemicarbazide. Both of these reagents may be made by conventional methods. Below is an illustrative procedure. Synthesis of 2 o carbomnethoxybenzoyl 1 methylN phenyl hydrazinethiocarboxamide. A solution of 45.3g 0.25 mole of 1 methyl N phenylhydrazinecarboxamide and 19.8 g 0.25 mole of Thridine in 800 ml of 1,2 dimethoxyethane was stirred at room tem perature while 49.8 g 0 25 mole of methyl phthaloyl chloride in 100 ml of 1,2 dimethoxyethane was added dropwise over a period of two hours. The resulting reaction mixture was stirred for 16 hours at room temperature. At the end of this time the contents of the flask were poured into ice water. The solid which formed was collected and amounted to 73.3 g 85 the melting point was 153.5 154O. In some instances, if the reaction time in the above procedure is prolonged, ring closure also occurs, to give good yields of the desired final product. However, the method is not equally satisfactory for all of the compounds of the class. It is also possible to effect ring closure i the product of the above procedure under strongly basic corn ditions, as in ethanolic sodium hydroxide, but with much lower yields of the desired product. The improved method of manufacturing compounds oX the present invention is a general method which is not limited to manufacturing only the compounds which fall within the strict limitations which have been previously disclosed. The nature of the ,substituent groups, which may be critical with respect to the characteristics of the desired compounds, is not particularly critical with regard to operability of the improved synthesis method. In general, the method is applicable to manufacture of compounds having the general structural formula EMI14.1 I in which R1 is C1 to Cd alkyl or alkoxy, nitro, cyano or halo and n is zero or an integer from 1 to 4. R2 and R3 are H or C1 to C4 alkyl or benzyl andAr is adamantyl, C3 to C4 alkyl or alkyl, benzyl, halo benzyl, naphthyl, phenyl or phenyl bearing there on from one to three.of the substituents cyanc, benzyloxy, nitro, bromo, chloro, trifluoromethyl and C1 to Cq alkyl, alkenyl, alkoxy, alkylthio, alkoxycarbonyl and alkyl substituted amino. By selection of suitable amines and solvents a skilled chemist will be able to employ the improved method of ring closure to make a great variety of isoindoledione compounds. Use of the Growth Regulators In highly active compounds, thytotoxic effects of pre emergent and post emergent application are often readily apparent. These effects may be demonstrated by means of the following illustrative proceduresPre emergent Application Disposable paper trays about 2 1 2 inches deep were filled with soil and sprayed with agueous spray mixtures at a rate of 5 lb. of active chemical, per acre or sprayed area, were seeded with 6 species of plant seeds and were then covered with, about 1 4 inch of soil.The spray mixtures were prepared by dissolving the proper amount of growth regulator compound in 15 ml of acetone, adding 4 ml of a solvent emulsifer mIxture consisting, of 60 wt. percent of a commercial polyoxyethylated vegetable oil emulsifier t96 wt. percent active ingredient, Emulphor EL 719 , 20 wt. percent xylene and 20 wt. percent deodorized kerosene, then bringing total volume up to 60 ml by addition of warm water.Twenty one days after seeding ana treatment the plantings were examined and plant injur was rated according to the following schedule DEGREE OF EFFECT 0 no effect 1 slight, effect, plants recovered 2 moderate effect, injury to 26 to 75 percent 3 severe effect, injury to 76 to 99 percent of foliage 4 maximum effect all plants died Post emergent Application Several species of plants were grown in pottinc soil in disposable styrofoam trays and tomatoes were grown in four inchpots in the greenhouse. Aqueous spray formulations were prepared and the growing plants were sprayed at a spray volume of 60 gallons per acre and an application rate of 5 lb. per acre. Spray mixtures were prepared in the manner described above.For comparative purposes, plants were also sprayed at 60 gal. acre with a spray mixture containing no growth regulator. Plant injury was again rated according to the schedule disclosed above and observations of growth regulator effects were observed and recorded as follows Effect. Abbreviation in Table sFormative effect on new growth FEpinasty EGrowth reduction G Non emergence Necrosis N in Table I below there are tabulated various compounds which have been made according to the above illustrative procedures, as well as observations of preand post emergent herbicidal and growth regulator effects. EFFECTS ON PLANT SPECIES of Compounds of the formula EMI17.1 TABLE I Prcemergent Effects Postemargent EffectsCom dNo.RnÚ Rê R Ar M.P. Comments on Utility 2431 n 0 H H phenyl 180 1 F3G2 F3G2 F3G1 F2G1 F1 F2G1 F2 F3G2 F2 F1 F3G1 F1 Growth reduction increased fruiting 2459 n 0 H H 4 CH3 phenyl 190 Dec. 0 0 F1 0 0 F2G1 0 F2 0 G1 F2G2 N1 Growth reduction 2460 n 0 H H 4 F phenyl 180 Dec. F1G1 G1 F1 0 F1 F1G1 0 F1 0 F2 N2F1 0 Growth reduction 2461 n 0 H H 3 CH3 phenyl 175 Dec. F1G1 G1 F2 F3G3 F2G2 F1G1 0 F3G3 0 F2G1 F2G1 N1 Growth reduction Supprassion of foxtail end millet 2462 n 0 H H 2 Cl phenyl 175 Dec. 0 K3 F1 0 F1 F1 0 N3G3 0 N1F1 F2G2 0 Growth reduction 2654 n 0 CH3 H phenyl 151 3 K4 F3G3 K4 F3G3 F3G3 F3G3 N3G2 N4 N2G2 N4 F2 Cotton defoliant. Promotes tillering of rice. oats, wheat. Infibitor of tasseling.2757 4 NO2 H H phenyl 90 2 F2G2 0 F1G1 F3G3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Pro emergent herbicide 2759 5 CH3 CH3 H phenyl 102 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 F1 0 0 F1 F1 Post emergent growth regulant 2769 4 CH3 H H phenyl 189 92 F3G3 F2F2 F2 F2G1 F2G2 F1 F1 F2 F1 F1G1 F2 F3E1 Growth promoter, oats and tomato 2770 4 CH3 CH3 H phenyl 110 15 F3G3 F2G2 F3G2 F3G3 F3G3 F3G2 F1 F3 F1 F1 F2 F3E1 Promotes fruit set on tomato. Pre emergent herbicide 2791 n 0 CH3 H 3 F phenyl 65 K4 F3G2 F3G3 F3G3 F3G2 F3G2 F3G3 F3G3 F3G2 F3G2 F3G3 F3G2 Promotes tillering of oats, E1 E3 Pre emergent herbicide EFFECTS ON PLANT SPECIES of Compounds of the formula EMI18.1 TABLE 1 Prcemergent Effects Postemargent EffectsCom dNo.RnÚ Rê R Ar M.P. Comments on Utility 2792 n 0 CH3 H 4 F phenyl 55 K4 F3G2 F3G2 F3G3 F3G2 F2G2 F2G2 F3G2 F2 F2G1 F3G2 F3G3 Promotes tillering of E3 oats. Pre emergent herbicide 2797 n 0 CH3 CH3 phenyl 175 6 0 0 0 0 0 F1G1 0 F1 0 0 F2 F2 Growth regulat 2857 n 0 CH2CH3 H phenyl 60 K4 K4 F3G3 F3G3 F3G2 F3G3 N2G2 F2G2 F2G2 F1 F2G2 F1G1 Promotes tillering of oats. Pre emergent herbicide 2858 n 0 H CH3 phenyl 170 Dec. F2G3 F1G1 F2G1 F2G2 F1G1 F2G2 0 F2G1 0 N1 F2G2 F1 Controls crabgrass Growth regulat 2864 4,7 di Cl CH3 H phenyl 169 73 0 G1 0 0 0 G2 0 0 0 0 F2G1 0 Growth regulat 2866 4 F H H phenyl 185 7 F1 0 F1 E1 0 0 0 0 0 F1 F2 F1 Growth regulat 2904 n 0 H H 3 F phenyl 162 5 F1 F2G1 K4 F3G2 F2G1 G1 N1 N1F1 N1G1 F2G2 F2G2 0 Combats cheat grass in grain fields.2905 n 0 H H 3 CF3 phenyl 149 152 G1 0 0 0 0 0 0 F1 0 N1G2 F2G2 N1F1 Growth regulat 2907 n 0 H H 3 Cl phenyl 158 61 F2G1 F2G1 F2 F2G1 F1 F1G1 G1 F2G1 0 F1 F2G1 0 Growth regulat 2920 4 CH3 CH3 CH3 phenyl 174 75 0 K2 0 G1 0 0 N1 0 0 0 0 0 Growth regulat 2973 n 0 H H 2,4 dimethyl 196 8 F1G1 F2G1 F2 F1 0 K2 N1 F1G1 0 0 F2G2 0 Growth regulat phenyl 2974 n 0 H H 3 Cl, 4 CH3 188 90 F1G1 K2 F2G1 0 0 K2 0 F1 0 F1 F1G1 0 Growth regulat phenyl 2975 n 0 H H 3,4 di Cl 185 87 0 K1 F2 F1G1 0 K2 1.0 F2 0 F1 F1G1 F1G1 Growth regulat phenyl EFFECTS ON PLANT SPECIES of Compounds of the formula EMI19.1 TABLE 1 Prcemergent Effects Postemargent EffectsCom dNo.RnÚ Rê R Ar M.P. Comments on Utility 1978 n 0 H H 1 naphthyl 168 71 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 F1 F2G1 F1 Growth regulant 3059 n 0 H H 2,5 dichloro 183 4 N1 F1 0 N1 0 0 Growth regulant phenyl 3061 n 0 H H 4 Br phenyl 200 2 0 F3 0 F1 F1 F2 Growth regulant 3112 n 0 CH3 H 2,6 dimethyl 156 160 0 0 F1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 F2G1 0 phenyl 3113 n 0 H H adamantyl 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 N2 N1 G1 0 N1 3198 n 0 CH3 H 2,3 dimethyl 100 163 F2G2 F1 F3G1 F3G2 F1 F2G2 0 0 0 0 F2G2 F3 phenyl 3199 n 0 CH3 H 2,4,5 trimethyl 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 F2G1 0 phenyl 3200 n 0 CH3 H 2,5 dimethyl F1 F1 F2 F2G1 F1 F1 0 0 0 0 F2G2 0 phenyl 3202 n 0 benzyl H phenyl 0 0 F2 0 0 0 0 F1 0 0 F2G1 F2 3203 n 0 CH3 H tert, butyl 155 158 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 F1 0 3404 n 0 CH3 H 4 nitrophenyl 203 205 F1G1 K2 F3G1 F1G1 F2G2 F2G2 0 F2G2 0 F1 F3 F2 3405 n 0 CH3 H 3 chloro 4 157 160 F1G1 K1 F3G2 F2G2 F3G2 F2G2 N1 F1 0 F1 F2G1 F3 methylphenyl 3406 n 0 CH3 H 3,4 dimethyl 179 182 F2G2 K1 F3G3 F3G2 F3G3 F3G3 0 0 0 F1G1 F1G1 F2 phenyl 3407 n 0 CH3 H 3,5 dimethyl 153 156 F3G2 K1 F3G3 F3G2 F3G2 F3G3 0 F2G2 F1 F2G2 F3G1 F2 phenyl 3197 n 0 CH2 2OH H phenyl 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 F1 0 EFFECTS ON PLANT SPECIES of Compounds of the formula EMI20.1 TABLE 1 Prcemergent Effects Postemargent EffectsCom dNo.RnÚ Rê R Ar M.P. Comments on Utility 3408 n 0 CH3 H 3 ethylphenyl 74 78 F2G2 K4 K4 F3G3 F3G2 F3G2 0 F2 0 F2G2 F3G2 F3 3412 n 0 H H 4 chlorophenyl 197 199 F2G1 F2G2 F2G3 F3G2 F2G1 F2G1 0 F3G3 0 F2G2 F3G2 F1 3496 4,5,6,7 CH3 H phenyl 100 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 G1 0 tetrachloro 3626 n 0 H H allyl 173 175 F1G1 0 F3G2 G1 0 F2 0 0 0 0 F1 0 3727 n 0 H H 4 methoxy 197 199 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 F1 0 0 F2 N1 phenyl 3727 n 0 H H 2 methyl 3 153 155 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 F2 0 chlorophenyl 3729 n 0 H H 4 isopropyl 150 152 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 F1 0 phenyl 3730 n 0 H H 2 chloro 6 170 172 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 F1 0 methylphenyl 3810 n 0 CH3 H 4 methoxy 170 172 0 F2G1 F3G3 F2 F2G2 F2G1 0 F2G1 F1G1 F2G1 F3G1 F2 phenyl 3811 n 0 CH3 H 2 chloro 4 66 69 0 0 F2G2 0 F2G1 F1G1 0 F1 0 0 F2G1 F1 methylphenyl 3821 n 0 CH3 H 4 chlorophenyl 169 170 F2G1 K4 K4 F3G2 K4 K4 F2G3 F3G3 F2G2 F3G3 F3G3 F3G1 3825 n 0 H H 3 benzyloxy 158 160 0 0 F1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 F1 G phenyl 3826 n 0 H H 3 nitrophenyl 184 187 0 0 0 0 0 0 F1 0 F1 F1 F1 3827 n 0 H H 4 benzyloxy 194 196 0 0 F1 0 0 0 0 F1 0 0 0 0 phenyl EFFECTS ON PLANT SPECIES of Compounds of the formula EMI21.1 TABLE 1 Prcemergent Effects Postemargent EffectsCom dNo.RnÚ Rê R Ar M.P. Comments on Utility 3828 n 0 H H 4 chloro 3 181 183 0 0 F1 0 0 0 0 F2 0 F3G2 F1 F1 trifluoromethylphenyl 3829 n 0 H H 2,4 dichloro 196 198 F2G2 F3G3 F2G3 F3G2 F2G1 F3G2 F2 F3G2 F2 F3G2 F3G2 F2 phenyl 3831 n 0 H H 2 trifluoromethyl phenyl 166 169 0 0 F1 0 F1G1 0 0 F1 0 N1G1 N1G1 N1 3832 n 0 H H 3 chlorobenzyl 187 189 0 0 0 0 F1G1 0 0 0 0 F1 F1 0 3833 n 0 H H 3 methoxyphenyl 163 165 0 0 F1 0 0 0 0 F3G2 F1 F2G1 F3G1 F1 3870 4 fluoro CH3 H phenyl 45 F2G1 N4 K4 F2G2 F2G2 F2G2 F1G1 F3G3 F1G1 F1G1 F3G3 F3 3948 n 0 H H 3,5 dimethyl 180 190 0 0 0 F1G1 F1 0 phenyl 3949 n 0 H H 3 methylthio 70 73 0 0 0 0 F2 0 phenyl 3950 n 0 H H 2 chloro 4 187 189 0 F2 G1 0 F2G1 F1 methylphenyl 3954 n 0 H H 4 cyanophenyl 230 231 0 0 0 0 F1 F1 3955 n 0 H H 4 diethylamino phenyl 198 199 0 0 0 0 F1 0 3956 n 0 H H 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl 93 96 F1 F3G3 F1 F3G2 F3G2 F2 3957 n 0 H H 4 chloro 2 197 199 F1 F3G3 0 F1 F2G1 F2 methylphenyl 3958 n 0 H H 4 ethoxyphenyl 189 190 0 0 0 0 F2 F1 3959 n 0 H H 2 fluorophenyl 182 184 F1 F1 0 F1 F3G1 F1 3960 n 0 H H 3,4 methylene dioxyphenyl 208 209 0 0 0 0 F1 0 The use of many of the growth regulator compounds may be demonstred by treatement of soybeans soja max to increase the number of seed pods and by treating tbmato plants Lycopersicum esculentum to increse fruit set.In an illustrative experiment, Soja max Evans variety andLycopersicum esculentum Tiny Tim variety were grown in 4 inch pots one plant per pot filled with greenhouse potting soil 2 parts good top soil, 1 1 2 parts builders sand, 1 1 2 parts peat, fertilized with 5 Ib. of 12 12 6 fertilizer and 5 lb. of finely ground limestone per cu. yd. . Aqueous spray formulations were prepared and the potted plants were sprayed at a spray volume of 40 gal. per acre and at applied cation rates of 16, 4, 1 and 1 4 oz. per acre, The spray mixtures were prepared by dissolving the proper amount of growth regulator compound in 15 ml, of acetone, adding 2 ml, of a solvent emulsifier mixture consisting of 60 wt. percent of a commercial polyoxyethylated vegetable oil emulsifier t96 wt. percent active ingredient, Emulphor EL 719 , 20 wt percent xylene and 20 wt. percent deodorized kerosene, then bringing total volume up to 80 ml by addition of a 0.156 wt.percent aqueous solution of liquid non ionic dispersant 90 wt percent active trimethylnonyl polyethylene glycol ether, Tergitol TMM 10 . Two replicates were sprayed at alkyl application rates. For comparative purposes, plants were also sprayed at 40 gal. acre with water. ,The number of seed pods and of fruit as percentage of arithmetic mean of the numbers on untreated plants was observed within approximately three weeks after spray.treatment and the results are tabulated below. The severity of growth regulatory effect, on the plants was estimated on a scale of O to 10 and is also recorded in the following table TABELE II GROWTH REGULATING EFFECTS ON TWO SPECIES Soja max Lycopersicum esculentumComp d.Rate Pod Count Severity of Fruit Count Severity of No. oz A. Percent in Growth Percent in Growth Comparison Regulating Comparison Regulating to Untreated Effect to Untreated Effect Plants Plants 2431. 16 120 2.5 150 0 5 4 105 0 150 . 0 1 90 0 117 0 2459 16 153 7 117 1.5 4 117 1 117 0 1 102 0 150 0 2460 16 177 4.5 . 117 0 4 135 .1.5 67 0 1 111 0 100 0 2461 16 126 6 67 0.5 4 129 1 133 0 1 105 0 67 0 2462 16 109 1.5 254 2 4 92 1 162 0 1 106 0 69 0 2654 16 183 9 291 8 4 151 4 255 7.5 134 1.5 327 2.5 2769 16 95 6.5 162 1 4 102 1 231 0 1 92 0 69 0 2770 16 124 7 462 8.5 4 138 2 .392 5.5 1 116 1 531 1 2791 16 171 9 182 9 4 134 5.5 255 7.5 1 120 2 364 3.5 2792 16 131 7.5 300 8 4 141 2 369 5.5 1 127 1 462 2.5 GROWTH REGULATING EFFECTS ON TWO SPECIES Soja max Lycopersicum esculentumComp d. Rate Pod Count Severity of Fruit Count Severity of No. oz A. Percent in Growth Percent in Growth Comparison Regulating Comparison Regulating to Untreated Effect to Untreated Effect P1 ants Plants 2857 16 116 8.5 208 8.5 4 131 31 2 2 554 5.5 1 106 1 508 . 2.5 2858 16 102 4 162 0.5 4 106 0.5 69 0 1 106 0 162 0 2866 16 109 0 277 0.5 4 95 0 162 0 1 99 0 69 0 2904 i6 129 2.5 109 0 4 117 0 109 0 100 0 73 0 2905 16 165 4 117 0.5 4 105 1 133 0 1 96 0 100 0 2907 16 138 7 83 2.5 4 111 1.5 150 0 1 87 o 0 200 0 2920 16 102 0 162 0 4 99 0 92 0 1 102 0 115 0 2973 16 102 0.5 185 0 99 9 162 0 1 109 0 69 0 2974 . 16 123 5.5 50 0.5 4 120 2 100 0 1 96 0 117 0 2975 16 132 4 100 1 4 132 0.5 133 0 1 102 0 50 0 GROWTH REGULATING EFFECTS ON TWO SPECIES Soja max Lycopersicum esculentumComp d. Rate Pod Count Severity of Fruit Count Severity of No. oz A.Percent in Growth Percent in Growth Comparison Regulating Comparison Regulating to Untreated Effect to Untreated Effect Plants Plants 2978 16 113 1.5 300 0.5 4 92 0 162 0 1 106 0 115 0 2982. 16 113 1 69 0 4 106 0 115 0 1 109 0 162 0 3059 16 117 0 67 0 4 105 0 .100 0 1 93 0 100 0 3061 16 168 8 100 0.5 4 174 6.5 33 0 1 141 1 117 0 3112 16 94 2 66 0.5 4 105 0 75 0 1 101 0 122 0 3197 16 105 0 84 0 4 101 0 131 0 1 101 0 75 0 3198 16 94 1.5 150 4 105 0 150 1 1 98 0 94 0 3199 16 120 0.5 141 0.5 4 105 0 131 0 1 109 0 66 0 3200 16 128 1 131 1.5 4 105 0 75 0 1 109 0 84 0 3202 16 101 1 122 0.5 4 98 0 150 0 109 0 150 0 GROWTH REGULATING EFFECTS ON TWO SPECIE oja max Lycopersicum esculentumCom d.Rate Pod Count , Severity of Fruit Count Severity of No. oz A. Percent in Growth Percent in Growth Comparision Regulating Comparision Regulating to Untreated Effect to Untreated Effect Plants Plants 3404 16 94 2.5 113 8 .4 105 0 150 3 1 105 0 122 0 3405 16 109 0 103 6 4 .98 0 113 1 1 94 0 66 0.5 3406 16 101 0.5 103 3.5 4 105 0 84 1 1 94 0 122 0 3412 16 129 4 176 1 4 104 1.5 141 0 1 z 100 0 71 0 3821 16 162 8.5 577 8.5 4 155 4.5 . 438 6.5 .1 141 2.5 323 6 3829 16 173 5.5 141 5.5 4 154 1.5, 159 2 1 128 0 103 0.5 Check 100 2Greenhouse rating on scale of 0, no effect 10, total kill. The information presented in tabular form herein will enable a worker in the art to make a selection fro among the growth regulator compounds of the invention on to make some judgment with regard td application rates, depending upon the effect which is desired. It may be seenr for example, that total kills of some species of .vegeta tion may occur at application rates as high as 5 to 10 ib. per acre, whereas beneficial effects may be observed on living plants at application rates of 1 lb. per acre or less.. The, growth regulator compounds are usually applied in combination with inert, carriers or diluents, as in aqueous sprays, granules and dust formulations in. accord nce with established practice in the art. An aqueous spray is usually prepared by mixing a wettable powder or emulsifiable concentrate formulation of a growth regulator with a relatively large.amount of water to form a dispersion Wettable powders comprise intimate, finely divided mixtures of growth regulator compounds, inert solid carrlers and surface active agents.The inert solid carrier is usually chosen frdm among the attapulgite clays, the kaolin ciays, the montmorillonite clays, the diatomaceous earths, finely divided silica and purified silicates . Effective surfactants which have wetting, penetrating and dispersing ability are usually present in a wettable powder formulation in proportions of from 0.5 to about 10 percent by weight.Among the surface active agents commonly used for this purpose are the sulfonated lignins, naphthalenesulfonates and condensed naphthalenesulfonates, alkylbenzenesulfonates, alkyl sulfates and non ionic surfactants such as products of condensation of ethylene oxide, with alkylphenols. Emulsifiable concentrates z or the growth regulator compounds, comprise in each instance, a solution of growth regulator compound in a liquid carrier which is a mixture of water immiscible solvent and surfactants, including emulsifiers. Useful solvents include aromatic hydrocarbon solvents such as the xylenes, alkylnaphthalenes, petroleum distillates, terpene solvents, ether alcohols and organic ester solvents. Suitable emulsifiers, dispersing and wetting agents may be selected from the same classes of products which are employed in formulating wettable powders. In general, the growth regulators are applied in formulations which desirably contain from 0.1 percent to 95 percent by weight of a compound of formula I and from 0.1 to 75 percent of a carrier or surfactant. However, direct application to plant seeds prior to planting may be accomplished in some instances by mixing powdered solid growth regulator with seed to obtain a substantially uniform coating which is very thin and comprises only one or two percent by weight or less, based on the weight of the seed. In most instances, however, a nonphytotoxic solvent, such as methanol is employed as a carrier to facilitate the uniform distribution of growth regulator on the surface of the seed. When a compound is to be applied to the soil, as for a pre emergence application, granular formulations are sometimes more convenient than sprays. A typical granular formation comprises the growth regulator compound dispersed on an inert carrier such as coarsely ground clay, or clay which has been converted to granules by treatment of a rolling bed of.the powdered material with a small amount of liquid in a granulating drum. In the,usual process for preparing granular formulations, a solution of the active compound is sprayed on the granules while they are being agitated in a suitable mixing apparatus, after which the granules are dried with a current of air during continued agitation.