# SEMICONDUCTOR INTEGRATED CIRCUIT HAVING COMPLEMENTARY FIELD EFFECT TRANSISTORS

## Claims
Integrierte Halbleiterschaltung mit einem Halbleiterträger 10 , einem einen ersten Transistor bildenden Bereich 1 eines ersten Leitungstyps, der zumindest in einer ersten Richtung ausgedehnt ist, einem einen zweiten Transistor bildenden Bereich 2 eines zweiten Leitungstyps, der zumindest in die erste Richtung ausgedehnt ist, einer Vielzahl von ersten Feldeffekttransistoren Q1, Q2, Q5 bis Q7, Q11 bis Q13 , die in dem den ersten Transistor bildenden Bereich 1 ausgebildet sind, einer Vielzahl von zweiten Feldeffekttransistoren Q3, Q4, Q8 bis Q10, Q14 bis Q16 , die in dem den zweiten Transistor bildenden Bereich 2 ausgebildet sind, einem ersten und zweiten Stromversorgungsleiter V2 , V1 , die sich auf dem Halbleiterträger 10 erstrecken, einer Vielzahl von Signalleitern S1 bis S4 , die über die den ersten und zweiten Transistor bildenden Bereiche 1, 2 in der gleichen Richtung wie der erste und zweite Stromversorgungsleiter V2 , V1 hinübergehen, einer ersten Einrichtung zum elektrischen Verbinden des ersten und zweiten Feldeffekttransistors mit den Signalleitern S1 bis S4 , wobei der erste und zweite Stromversorgungsleiter V2 , V1 und die Signalleiter S1 bis S4 auf einem ersten Leiterschichtniveau ausgebildet sind, ohne sich gegenseitig zu überlappen, dadurch

## Description
The present invention relates to a semiconductor integrated circuit employing complementary MOS transistors. Complementary MOS hereinafter referred to as CMOS integrated circuits which employ both of N channel field effect transistors and P channel transistors have been widely utilized because they consume less electric power. In a CMOS integrated circuit, N channel field effect transistors and P channel field effect transistors are formed on different surface regions of a semiconductor substrate. For example, in the case where an N type semiconductor substrate is employed, P channel transistors are formed on a certain area of the substrate while a P type well region is povided on another area of the substrate and N channel transistors are formed on the well region. In order to arrange the transistors at high density, the above certain region and the well region are adjacently located and power supply wirings are arranged both outer sides of the adjacent certain region and the well regions. While, signal wirings for carrying logic signals are extended in the direction normal to that of the power supply wirings through the above two regions. According to this arrangement, the power supply wirings are arranged in parallel and the signal wirings are also arranged in parallel in each wiring group, and hence design in the wiring is easy. The signal wirings are extending beyond the power supply wirings from the transistor region and therefore the signal wirings inevitably overlap the power supply wirings. Therefore, in the case where the power supply wirings are made of low resistive metal, the signal wirings are usually made of polycrystalline silicon in order to achieve the multi layer wirings with ease. However, as is well known, the resistance of the polycrystalline silicon is relatively large and hence the signal transmission time through the signal wirings is large, resulting in low speed operation. Moreover, the above overlap of the signal wirings on the power supply wirings and the formation of the power supply wirings outside the transistor region make it difficult to form the circuit with the high integration structure. It is one object of the invention to provide a semiconductor integrated circuit which can be fabricated with high integration. A semiconductor integrated circuit according to the preamble part of claim 1 is known from JP A 59 63 754. In this device a N type region and a P type region surrounding the N type region are formed and a plurality of signal wirings are extending through those regions in parallel with a power supply wiring. A further semiconductor device is disclosed in US A 4 035 826 in which a P channel field effect transistor and a N channel field effect transistor are formed in a first region surrounded by a N region and in a second region surrounded by a P region, respectively, and an input wiring and an output wiring are extending over the first and second regions. It is therefore an object of the invention to provide a semiconductor integrated circuit which can be fabricated with high integration density and which is operable at a high speed. This object is achieved by a semiconductor circuit having the features of claim 1. The dependent claims are related to further developments of the invention. According to the invention both of the first and second power supply wiringspass over the first and second transistor forming regions in parallel in the direction perpendicular to that of the first and second transistor forming regions. Therefore, since both of the first and second transistor forming regions overlap with the first and second power supply wirings, any particular area on the substrate is not necessitated for the arrangement of the power supply wirings, and the transistors can be connected to either one or both of the power supply wirings with ease within the respective transistor forming regions. Thus, a high integration rate of the integrated circuit can be achieved. Furthermore, the internal wirings formed on the different level layers extend over both transistor forming regions to serve as the gates of the field effect transistors and extend in the same direction as that of the transistor forming regions. Therefore, the gates themselves of the transistor and the wirings connected between the gates and the single wirings can be formed by the internal wirings at the same time. Therefore, the field effect transistors can be formed over the transistor forming regions efficiently with high density structure. Referring to fig. 1, a prior art CMOS integrated circuit is briefly explained. As shown in fig. 1, two rectangular regions 1 and 2 are defined on a semiconductor substrate. The region 1 is, for example, of an N type conductivity region and the region 2 is of a P type conductivity region. In this case, P channel field effect transistors are formed on the region 1 while N channel field effect transistors are formed on the region 2. Along the upper side periphery 11 of the region 2, a power supply wiring V₁ is provided in a lateral direction and another power supply V₂ is provided in the lateral direction along the lower side periphery 12 of the region 2. Signal wirings S1 to S4 for carrying logic signals are provided in a vertical direction across the regions 1 and 2 as illustrated. In the drawing, an arrow with a reference F indicates the flow of logic processing in the circuit. According to this arrangement, the power supply wirings V₁ and V₂ are formed on independent areas which are separate from the regions 1 and 2. Therefore, it has been difficult to fabricate the integrated circuit in a high density structure. Furthermore, the signal wirings S1 to S4 are required to intersect with the power supply wiring V₁ and hence the signal wirings S1 to S4 must be formed by a different layer of conductive material. In general, the power supply wirings V₁ and V₂ are formed of a highly conductive metal e.g. aluminium and the signal wirings S1 to S4 are formed of a polycrystalline silicon. The resistance of the polycrystalline silicon is relatively and hence signal transmission time through the signal wirings inevitably large, resulting in low speed operation. Referring to fig. 2, a basic structure of a CMOS integrated circuit according to the present invention is explained. In fig. 2, the portions corresponding to those in fig. 1 are denoted by the same references employed in fig. 1. As is illustrated in fig. 2, according to the present invention, instead of arranging the power supply wirings V₁ and V₂ in the lateral direction along the peripheries 11 and 12 in fig. 1, the power supply wirings V₁ and V₂ are arranged in the vertical direction on both the regions 1 and 2. Also, the power supply wirings V₁ and V₂ are extending in parallel with the signal wirings S2 to S4. According to this arrangement, since the power supply wirings V₁ and V₂ are formed on the transistor regions 1 and 2, the area solely required for the wirings V₁ and V₂ are not necessary. Moreover, the power supply wirings V₁ and V₂ and the signal wirings S1 to S4 are arranged in parallel and both of the wirings have no overlapping portion therebetween, and hence the signal wirings S1 to S4 can be formed of the same wiring layer as the power supply wirings V₁ and V₂ . Namely, both of the signal wirings S1 to S4 and the power supply wirings V₁ and V₂ can be made by the same highly conductive material such as aluminium. Accordingly, the signal wirings S1 to S4 can be provided with low impedance as well as the power supply wiring. Referring to figs. 3 to 6, a detailed embodiment of the present invention is explained. Fig. 3 shows one example of a logic diagram of the circuit to be realized by the embodiment. As shown in fig. 3, the logic circuit to be fabricated in this embodiment includes a NAND gate G₁ receiving signals S1 and S2, an OR gate G₂ receiving the signals S1 and S2, a NAND gate G₃ receiving the outputs of the gates G₁ and G₂, and a NAND gate G₄ receiving signals S3 and S4 and the output of the gate G₃. Fig. 4 shows a schematic circuit diagram of the logic circuit of fig. 3. Referring to figs. 5 and 6, a detailed layout of the circuit shown in fig. 4 according to the invention is described. On a semiconductor substrate 10, an N type conductivity region 7 and a P type conductivity region 2 are adjacently provided. P channel transistors are formed on the region 7 while N channel transistors are formed on the region 2. A wiring 61 made of aluminium serves as the V₅ line and is extended in the vertical direction along and on the left side peripheries of the regions 1 and 2. A wiring 63 made of aluminium also serves as the V₁ and is arranged in the vertical direction along and on the right side peripheries of the regions 1 and 2. An aluminium wiring 62 serves as the V₂ line and is extending in the vertical direction through the center parts of the regions 1 and 2. Wirings 64 to 67 made of aluminium serve as the signal input lines S1 to S4, respectively and are extending in the vertical direction. The wiring 64 is connected to a polycrystalline silicon wiring 73 serving as gates of the P channel transistors Q₁ and Q₅ through a contact 102 and connected to a polycrystalline silicon wiring 76 serving gates of the N channel transistors Q₃ and Q₉ through a contact 121. The wiring 65 is connected to a polycrystalline silicon wiring 74 serving as the gates of the P channel transistors Q₂ and Q₆ through a contact 104 and connected to a polycrystalline silicon wiring 79 serving as the gates of the N channel transistors Q₄ and Q₁₀ through a contact 109. The wiring 66 is connected to an polycrystalline silicon wiring 80 serving a gate of the P channel transistor Q₁₂ and a gate of the N channel transistor Q₁₅ through a contact 114. The wiring 67 is connected to a polycrystalline silicon wiring 81 serving as a gate of the P channel transistor Q₁₁ through a contact 120 and to a polycrystalline silicon wiring 82 serving as a gate of the N channel transistor Q₁₆ An aluminium wiring 68 performs an internal connection connecting the commonly connected sources of Q₁ and Q₂ to gates of the transistors Q₇ and Q₈ via a contact 103, a polycrystalline silicon wiring 75, a contact 107 and a polycrystalline wiring 78. An aluminium wiring 72 connects the drains of the transistors Q₁₄, Q₁₅ and Q₁₆ to form an output terminal OUT. The power wiring lines 61 and 63 are coupled to the P type diffusion regions 51 and 51 via contacts 101 and 119, respectively. The power supply wiring 62 is connected to an N type diffusion region 52 in the region 2 via contacts 113. Fig. 6 shows a pattern of the diffusion regions 51, 51 and 52 for easier understanding. As is apparent from fig. 5, the power supply wirings 61, 62 and 63 V₁ , V₂ are provided on the transistor forming regions 1 and 2 and hence any special area solely required for the wirings V₁ , V₂, are not necessary. Moreover, the signal wirings 64 to 67 are formed in parallel with the power wirings 61 to 63 and of the same conductive layer aluminium . Therefore, the signal wirings 64 to 67 can be provided with low impedance characteristics. As has been described, according to the present invention, the semiconductor integrated circuit which can be fabricated at high density and can operate at a high speed, is obtained.