# BED FOR MOTOR RE EDUCATION OF A PATIENT

## Abstract
Bed for passive, autopassive or against patient resistance motor re education, supplied with twenty one D.C. low voltage on account of security electric motors suitable to control respec tively eleven mechanical assemblies applied to the bed and suited to cause the different movements of the patient, two further auxiliary mechanical assemblies constrained to the former and at last eight further mechanical assemblies suited to cause the positionings and the adjustments of the bed and of the aforesaid assemblies. It results that the bed is adjustable as hight and revolving around their trasversal axis. The different mechanical assemblies are able to allow a flexural extension motions of the whole backbone b before placing and abduction motions of the shoulders and flexural extension motions of the elbows. c flexural extension and abductions motions of the hips and flexural extension motions of the knees, whether the patient is in a supine or a prone position. Said motions can be carried out singularly, contemporary or variously alternate, so that different exercise combinations can be obtained. The operation of motors is servo controlled as speed by speedometer dynamos, as angle shot by angular position circum ferentors, as torque by torque detectors, and operated by a microprocessor, so that graduated, soft, constant, stable and repeated movements can be actuated and controlled as type, number, sequence, intensity, amplitude, duration, execution speed, acceleration and stall torque value. The movement programming set out through the alphan umeric keyboard, is operated by the microprocessor conveniently programmed to accept the allowed movements only. The video allows the operator to visualize the stated data, to signal, with continuous adjournment, outstanding movement cycles and the diagnostics of possible irregularities. At last the programm can be printed for the filling and to allow the valuation of the therapeutical results.