# A PROCESS FOR THE PREPARATION OF EPOXIDES BY MEANS OF MICROORGANISMS

## Claims
Verfahren zur Herstellung von Epoxiden, welches das Behandeln eines Allylethers der allgemeinen Formel

## Description
The present invention relates to a process for the preparation of epoxides by means of microorganisms, more particularly, a process for the preparation of 2,3 epoxypropyl ethers from the corresponding allyl ethers by means of microorganisms. 2,3 Epoxypropyl phenyl ethers, a sort of 2,3 epoxypropyl ether, are important as starting materials for medicaments, particularly, as intermediates for syntheses of β blockers, since they can be converted into aryloxypropanolamines by ring cleavage using amines, as shown by the following reaction formula Also, 2,3 epoxypropyl naphthyl ethers are important, alike the 2,3 epoxypropyl phenyl ethers, as intermediates for syntheses of β blockers. Further, various valuable compounds were synthesized from 2,3 epoxypropyl benzyl ethers via γ butyrolactones. The 2,3 epoxypropyl ethers obtainable by the process of the present invention are important as intermediates for the preparation of medicaments, agricultural chemicals and the like, since they are optically active and so various optically active derivatives can be synthesized starting from them. Hitherto, as processes for preparing epoxides from the corresponding olefins were known chemical oxidation processes using a peroxide such as hydrogen peroxide or percarboxylic acids as an oxidizing agent, and biochemical oxidation processes using microorganisms. According to the biochemical processes using microorganisms, epoxides were prepared by treating the corresponding linear olefins or the corresponding alkenylbenzenes such as styrene, allylbenzene or the like, with microorganisms belonging to In the epoxidation by means of microorganisms, however, the sorts of olefins which can be epoxidized were limited depending on the sort of the microorganism used. For example, it was reported that On the other hand, Thus, the sorts of olefins which can be epoxidized differ depending on the sort of the microorganism used, and accordingly it is necessary to examine individual olefins and individual microorganisms. As for the oxygen containing unsaturated compounds such as allyl ethers, among compounds having a C C double bond, no process for preparing epoxides from them by means of microorganisms is known as yet. Moreover, as for the preparation of optically active epoxides by means of microorganisms, no process for preparing optically active epoxides from oxygen containing unsaturated compounds such as allyl ethers by means of microorganisms is known as yet, although it is known that optically active epoxides are formed in the preparation of epoxides from linear olefins by microorganisms belonging to Now, after making search for microorganisms capable of producing epoxides from allyl ethers, it has been found that epoxide producing microorganisms belonging to That is, the object of the present invention resides in providing a novel process for the preparation of 2,3 epoxypropyl ethers valuable as intermediates for preparing medicaments and the like, by means of epoxide producing microorganisms belonging to A characteristic feature of the present invention resides in producing 2,3 epoxypropyl ethers by treating the corresponding allyl ethers of the general formula X O CH₂ CH CH₂ I , as defined hereinafter, with microorganisms having an ability of producing epoxides which are selected from the group of microorganisms belonging to A further characteristic feature of the present invention resides in producing the epoxides more advantageously by effecting the treatment with the above mentioned microorganisms in the presence of a water insoluble organic solvent. Examples of the starting materials and the epoxides produced therefrom according to the present invention are shown by the following schemes As examples of the microorganisms belonging to The allyl ethers which are used in the present invention as substrates for producing epoxides by treating with the above microorganisms are those of the general formula I wherein X represents a radical selected from the group consisting of In the method a of incubating the allyl ethers with the precultivated cells, the microorganism is precultured under an aerobic condition in a medium consisting of assimilable carbon sources such as glucose, sucrose, molasses, starch hydrolysate, propane, butane, octane, dodecane, tetradecane, ethylene, propylene, 1 butene, 1,3 butadiene, actic acid, ethanol, etc., or nitrogen sources such as ammonium chloride, ammonium sulfate, ammonium phosphate, ammonium nitrate, urea, aqueous ammonia, aminoacids and other assimilable organic nitrogen compounds, inorganic salts such as potassium phosphate, sodium phosphate, magnesium sulfate, manganese sulfate, ferrous sulfate, ferric chloride, calcium chloride, manganese chloride, etc., salts of boron, copper, zinc, etc., i.e., the so called trace elements , and if necessary, those substances which stimulate the growth of microorganism, such as vitamins, yeast extract, corn steep liquor, etc. To the cultured solution thus obtained, or to a suspension of the cells harvested therefrom or to immobilized cells prepared therefrom, are added the allyl ethers and, if necessary, these organic solvents as described hereinafter, and then an oxygen containing gas such as air, oxygen gas, oxygen enriched gas, etc. is provided to cause the reaction. The reaction is performed at a pH of 5 to 9 and a temperature of 20 to 50 C for 1 2 to 6 days, as suitably prescribed depending on the microorganisms and allyl ethers used. Although the reaction is performed usually under normal pressure, it is also possible to improve the epoxide productivity by carrying out the reaction under elevated pressure. In addition, it is possible to maintain or elevate the cell concentration and the epoxide productivity of cells by suitably adding the carbon source, the nitrogen source and the other ingredients as used in the cell cultivation, to the reaction mixture in the course of the reaction. The ratio of the allyl ethers to the aqueous liquor containing cells used in the reaction is usually 0.1 to 50 vol vol , preferably, 0.5 to 20 vol vol . The reaction can be performed by either of a batchwise process or a continuous process, or also by a semicontinuous process wherein the allyl ethers or other ingredients are supplemented continuously or intermittently in the course of the reaction. The epoxides produced by the reaction are separated and purified by conventional methods such as phase separation, extraction, distillation and the like. The method b is intended for producing epoxides by one step by adding the allyl ethers and, if necessary, those organic solvents as described hereinafter to the medium for the precultivation in the methods a . As conditions for cultivation such as pH, temperature, pressure, amount of allyl ethers added, etc. , mode of cultivation and means of separation and purification of epoxides, the same reaction conditions, reaction mode and means for separation and purification as employed in the method a may be used. As described above, the present invention encompasses or covers also an embodiment of performing the reaction of epoxidizing the allyl ethers with the microorganisms in the presence of water insoluble organic solvents. Therefore, such embodiment is explained hereunder. The water insoluble organic solvents which may be present on carrying out the epoxidation of the allyl ethers by means of the microorganisms hereinafter, referred to merely as organic solvents are those organic solvents selected from the group consisting of paraffins of C₉ to C₁₇, olefins of C₁₀ to C₁₈, halogenated paraffins of C₉ to C₁₆ and alkylbenzenes having one alkyl side chain of C₆ to C₁₅. These organic solvents may be used individually or as a mixture of two or more of them. Now, more detailed explanation is given as to the organic solvents. Among paraffins of C₉ to C₁₇, normal paraffins are those contained in kerosene and gas oil fractions of petroleum in an amount of about 20 to 25 . They are separated and recovered by means of zeolite or molecular sieve or the like, after hydrodesulfurization of the fraction having boiling points of about 160 to 350 C. They are generally used as materials for soft type detergents. Among the above paraffins, those containing many carbon atoms have a higher epoxidation accelerating effect and those of C₁₂ to C₁₆ are especially preferable. Those containing less than 9 carbon atoms do not show any epoxidation accelerating effect and, on the other hand, those containing more than 17 carbon atoms are of no practical use because they show only a lower epoxidation accelerating effect and moreover they solidify at room temperature. Further, among the above paraffins, isoparaffins are those coexisting with the normal paraffins in the above mentioned fractions. Although they can be separated from normal paraffins by rectification, it is convenient in practice to use them in the form of mixtures with normal paraffins. They generally have side chains of short length, such as methyl, ethyl and the like. Isoparaffins of C₁₂ to C₁₆ are especially preferable for the purpose of accelerating epoxidation. The olefins of C₁₀ to C₁₈ may be lower polymers or oligomers of propylene or butylene. Those commercially available as reagents may also be applied. Generally, they are linear or lower branched monoolefins. Olefins containing less than 10 carbon atoms do not show any epoxidation accelerating effect and, on the other hand, those containing more than 18 carbon atoms are of no practical use because they show only a lower epoxidation accelerating effect and moreover they are highly viscous. The halogenated paraffins of C₉ to C₁₆ as the organic solvents are those chlorinated paraffins and brominated paraffins which include decyl chloride, undecyl chloride, undecyl bromide, dodecyl bromide, tetradecyl bromide, hexadecyl bromide, etc. Both the halogenated paraffins containing less than 9 carbon atoms and the halogenated paraffins containing more than 16 carbon atoms do not show any epoxidation accelerating effect. The alkylbenzenes having one alkyl side chain of C₆ to C₁₅ are those usually utilized as intermediates for hard or soft detergents, whose side chain is a linear or branched alkyl group. When the length of the side chain is outside the range of C₆ to C₁₅, any epoxidation accelerating effect is not recognized or the epoxidation accelerating effect is too low to be used practically. The ratio of the above mentioned organic solvents to the culture broth or the suspension of the cells may vary depending on the sorts of the organic solvents used. However, it is usually 1 to 200 vol vol , preferably 5 to 100 vol vol . The same reaction conditions, reaction mode and means for separation and purification of the epoxides formed, as described above, may be applied also in the case of performing the reaction in the presence of the organic solvents. The epoxide productivity may be significantly elevated by the presence of the organic solvents. The epoxides obtained according to the present invention are optically active and so they can be utilized advantageously, especially as starting materials for synthesizing physiologically active substances such as medicaments. Hereinafter, the present invention is further explained more particularly, by giving Examples. The invention, however, shall never be limited to these Examples. As regards the 11 microorganisms listed in the following Table 3 except As for A cell suspension of each microorganism was prepared by washing the harvested cells once with 0.01M phosphate buffer pH 7.5 and then once with the reaction medium as described hereinafter, and thereafter resuspending the cells in the same reaction medium. The concentration of cells in the cell suspension was adjusted to be within the range of 3.5 to 4.0 g ℓ in dry cell basis. The pH was adjusted at 8.0 with 1M H₂SO₄. In a 500 ml shake flask were placed 20 ml of the above cell suspension and 1 ml of allyl phenyl ether, and the flask was stoppered. After incubation under oscillation at 30 C for 24 hours, the 2,3 epoxypropyl phenyl ether produced was extracted with 40 ml of ether and its amount was determined by a gas chromatograph equipped with a flame ionization detector and a glass column 2 m long packed with 3 DEGS diethylene glycol succinate on Uniport B 80 100 mesh. The sorts of microorganisms used and the amounts of the epoxide produced by each microorganism are shown in Table 3. The reaction was carried out for either 24 or 72 hours. The sorts of the ethers used as the starting material and the amounts of the epoxide produced from each ether are shown in Table 4. The epoxides were assayed in the same manner as described in Example 1. The reaction was carried out for 24 hours. The sorts of the ethers used as the starting material and the amounts of the epoxide produced from each ether are shown in Table 5. The epoxides were assayed in the same manner as described in Example 1. A cell suspension of Next, for reference, the optical purities of the epoxide produced using By the way, the optical purity was determined according to the procedure of J.A. Dale, D.L. Dull and H.S. Mosher, A cell suspension of 20 ml of a synthetic medium a liquid medium prepared by adding ion exchanged water to 4 g of NH₄ ₂HPO₄, 2.5 g of Na₂HPO₄ 12H₂O, 2 g of KH₂PO₄, 0.5 g of MgSO₄ 7H₂O, 30 mg of FeSO₄ 7H₂O, 60 mg of CaCl₂ 2H₂O and 200 mg of yeast extract from Difco to make the whole volume into 1 ℓ and then autoclaved at 120 C for 15 minutes placed in a 500 ml shake flask was inoculated with 2 loopfuls of each of the 6 microorganisms listed on the following Table 9. The flask was stoppered and 120 ml of propane was introduced into the flask. The flask was incubated at 30 C for 120 hours under oscillation. A cell suspension of each of the 6 microorganisms was prepared according to the method described in Example 1. 5 ml of the above cell suspension and 250 µl of phenyl ally ether were placed in a test tube having an outer diameter of 24 mm, and the test tube was stoppered. After the incubation at 30 C for 24 hours under oscillation, the organic layer was extracted with 20 ml of ether and the amount of 2,3 epoxypropyl phenyl ether produced was determined according to the method described in Example 1. The results are shown in Table 9. Ether was removed from the solution in ether of the product obtained by the reaction using The ratio of the peak areas of the two diastereomers was 74.5 the peak of shorter retention time vs. 25.5 the peak of longer retention time The optical purity of the 2,3 epoxypropyl phenyl ether produced by According to the same procedure as described in Example 1, cell suspensions of the 9 microorganisms described in the following Table 10 were prepared. The cell concentration of each cell suspension was adjusted to be within the range of 3.5 to 4.0 g ℓ in dry cell basis. Twenty ml of the above cell suspension, 400 µl of allyl benzyl ether and 8 ml of n hexadecane were placed in a 500 ml shake flask. After incubation under oscillation at 30 C for 24 hours, the 2,3 epoxypropyl benzyl ether produced was extracted with 40 ml of ether and its amount was determined according to the method described in Example 1. The sorts of microorganisms used and the amounts of the epoxide produced by each microorganism are shown in Table 10. Using A cell suspension of The amounts of the epoxide produced are shown in Table 12. 20 ml of a synthetic medium a liquid medium prepared by adding ion exchanged water to 4 g of NH₄ ₂HPO₄, 2.5 g of Na₂HPO₄ 12H₂O, 2 g of KH₂PO₄, 0.5 g of MgSO₄ 7H₂O, 30 mg of FeSO₄ 7H₂O, 600 mg of CaCl₂ 2H₂O and 200 mg of yeast extract from Difco to make the whole volume into 1 ℓ and then autoclaved at 120 C for 15 minutes placed in a 500 ml shake flask was inoculated with 2 loopfuls of Five ml of the above cell suspension, 250 µℓ of allyl benzyl ether and 5 ml of n hexadecane were placed in a test tube having an outer diameter of 24 mm. The reaction was carried out in the manner described in Example 2, whereby 6.6 mg of phenylmethoxymethyloxirane was obtained. From the ether solution of each of the nine sorts of reaction products described in Example 8, ether was removed. The residue was dissolved in a mixture of 4 ml of isopropanol and 2 ml of isopropylamine and heated at 80 C for 4 hours in a 20 ml Pyrex vial. Then, the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness. Thereafter, the residue was dissolved in 10 ml of benzene and the organic layer was extracted twice with 20 ml of 1M HCl. To the aqueous layer was added 20 ml of 6M NaOH and then the resulting mixture was extracted with 20 ml of benzene. The benzene layer was dried over Na₂SO₄, and evaporated to dryness. The residue was transferred into a 7 ml vial and then, derivatized with 100 µℓ of bis trimethylsilyl trifluoro acetamide under heating at 60 C for 15 minutes. Then, 100 µl of 1M solution of N heptafluorobutyryl L prolylchloride in dichloromethane was added to the reaction mixture. One µℓ of the final solution was injected into a gaschromatograph equipped with a flame ionization detector and a 60 m long glass capillary column coated with OV225. The absolute configuration and optical purity of the phenylmethoxymethyloxirane produced by each of the nine microorganisms are shown in the following Table 13. While the invention has been described in detail and with reference to specific embodiments thereof, it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that various changes and modifications can be made therein without departing from the scope thereof.