# PHENOL DERIVATIVES

## Claims
Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragsstaaten BE, CH, FR, GB, IT, LI, LU, NS, SE

## Description
This invention relates to new phenol derivatives which possess antioestrogenic activity. Various antioestrogens are now known. Two such compounds, tamoxifen and clomiphene, are commercially available, and others, for example nafoxidine, trioxifene and a number of compounds with code numbers such as Cl 628 and LY 117018, have been the subject of clinical trials Non steroidal Antioestrogens, Edited by R L Sutherland and V C Jordan, Academic Press, 1981 ISBN 0 12 677880 9 Pharmacology and clinical uses of inhibitors of hormone secretion and action, Edited by B J A Furr and A E Wakeling, Bailliere Tindall, 1987 ISBN 0 7020 1136 3 7. Many oestrogenic compounds are also known, and in particular oestrogens based on hexoestrol bearing an amidic function, of the general formula wherein n is O or 1 and R is hydrogen or alkyl, are described in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry, 1982, We have now found that certain phenol derivatives which are based on the hexoestrol nucleus but which bear an amidic or other function separated from the nucleus by an extended chain possess potent antioestrogenic activity. According to the invention there is provided a phenol derivative of the formula wherein one of R¹³ and R²³, and one of R³³ and R⁴³, has the formula R³O , wherein each R³, which may be the same or different, is hydrogen or alkyl, cycloalkyl, alkanoyl, alkoxycarbonyl, carboxyalkanoyl or aroyl each of up to 10 carbon atoms, and wherein the other of R¹³ and R²³, and the other of R³³ and R⁴³, is hydrogen It will be observed that except when R⁴ and R¹⁴ are joined together so that CR⁴ CR¹⁴ is an olefinic double bond, the phenol derivative of the invention possesses at least two asymmetric carbon atoms, namely those which bear the substituents R⁴ and R¹⁴, and it can therefore exist in racemic and optically active forms. It is to be understood that this invention encompasses any racemic form of the phenol derivative, and any optically active form thereof, which possesses antioestrogenic activity, it being a matter of common general knowledge how a racemic compound may be separated into its optically active forms, and how the antioestrogenic properties of any such form may be determined. A suitable value for the one or more optional halogen or alkyl substituent in ring B or C, or in the heterocyclene group Y³ , is, for example, fluoro, chloro, bromo, iodo, methyl or ethyl. Preferably R²³ and R⁴³ are hydrogen and R¹³ and R³³ have the formula R³O . A suitable value for R³ when it is cycloalkyl, alkanoyl, alkoxycarbonyl, carboxyalkanoyl or aroyl is, for example, cyclopentyl, formyl, acetyl, propionyl, butyryl, pivaloyl, decanoyl, isopropoxycarbonyl, succinyl, glutaryl or benzoyl. R³ is preferably hydrogen or alkanoyl or alkoxycarbonyl each of up to 5 carbon atoms, especially hydrogen. A suitable value for R, R³, R⁴ or R¹⁴ when it is alkyl is, for example, methyl or ethyl. R and R⁴ are preferably hydrogen and R¹⁴ is preferably hydrogen or methyl, or R is hydrogen and R⁴ and R¹⁴ are joined together. A suitable value for R⁶ when it is alkyl is, for example, methyl, ethyl or n propyl. A preferred value for the group A is a group of the formula A suitable value for the group Y³ is, for example, a mono or bi cyclic divalent heterocyclic group which contains 1, 2 or 3 heteroatoms selected from nitrogen, oxygen and sulphur atoms, which may be fully saturated, partially saturated or unsaturated, which may be fused to a benzene ring, and which may bear one or more halogen, alkyl, alkoxy or oxo substituents. The free bonds may be attached to carbon atoms or nitrogen atoms. Particular groups are, for example, thien 2,5 ylene, thien 2,4 ylene, pyrazol 1,4 ylene, thiazol 2,5 ylene, 1,3,4 thiadiazol 2,5 ylene, 1,3,4 oxadiazol 2,5 ylene, piperidine 1,4 diyl and 1,4 piperazine 1,4 diyl. A suitable alkoxy substituent in Y³ is, for example, methoxy or ethoxy. A suitable value for R¹ when it is alkyl, alkenyl or cycloalkyl is, for example, methyl, ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl, n butyl, isobutyl, t butyl, n pentyl, isopentyl, t pentyl, 2,2 dimethylpropyl, 1 methylbutyl, 2 methylbutyl, n hexyl, 1,1 dimethylbutyl, 1,3 dimethylbutyl, n heptyl, n decyl, allyl, cyclopentyl or cyclohexyl. A suitable value for R¹ when it is aryl or aralkyl is, for example, phenyl, A suitable value for R¹ when it is halogenoalkyl is, for example, 2 chloro 2,2 difluoroethyl, 2,2,2 trifluoroethyl, 1H,1H heptafluorobutyl, 4,4,5,5,5 pentafluoropentyl or 1H,1H,2H,2H,3H,3H heptafluorohexyl. A suitable value for the heterocyclic ring NR¹R² is, for example, pyrrolidino, piperidino, 4 methylpiperidino, 3 methylpiperidino, morpholino or 4 methylpiperazino. A suitable value for R² when it is alkyl is, for example, methyl, ethyl or n butyl. One appropriate salt is an acid addition salt of a phenol derivative which possesses a basic function, for example a compound wherein R⁵ and R⁶ together form NR CH₂ or N CH . A suitable acid addition salt is, for example, a hydrochloride, hydrobromide, acetate, citrate, oxalate or tartrate. Another appropriate salt is a base addition salt of a phenol derivative which possesses a carboxy function, for example a compound wherein R³ is carboxyalkanoyl. A suitable base addition salt is, for example, a sodium, potassium, ammonium or cyclohexylamine salt. A preferred phenol derivative of the invention has the formula stated above wherein both R³ substituents and R¹⁵ are all hydrogen, wherein either R⁴ is hydrogen and R¹⁴ is hydrogen, methyl or ethyl, or R⁴ and R¹⁴ are joined together, wherein either R⁵ is hydrogen and R⁶ is methyl, ethyl or n propyl, or R⁵ and R⁶ together form CH₂ , CH₂CH₂ , CH CH₃ , CH CH or S , wherein A is A particularly preferred phenol derivative of the invention has the formula stated above wherein the number of carbon atoms in the two groups A excluding those in the group Y³ and R¹ adds up to between 8 and 15, especially 11 to 13 if there is no phenyl group in R¹, and 13 to 15 if there is a phenyl group in R¹. An especially preferred phenol derivative of the invention has the formula stated above wherein The most especially preferred value for NU is 1RS, 2RS 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 6 hydroxy 2 Specific phenol derivatives of the invention are hereinafter described in the Examples. Of these, particularly preferred compounds are 1RS,2RS 1 4 4 2 n hexylthioethyl pyrazol 1 yl butyl 2 A preferred process for the manufacture of a phenol derivative of the invention wherein X has the formula CONR² , comprises the reaction of a compound of the formula NU¹ A Z¹, wherein A has the meaning stated above, wherein NU¹ has the same meaning as stated above for NU except that the hydroxy groups are protected and wherein Z¹ is an activated group derived from a carboxylic acid, with an amine of the formula HNR¹R², wherein R¹ and R² have the meanings stated above, whereafter the protecting groups in NU¹ are removed by conventional means. A suitable activated group Z¹ is, for example, a mixed anhydride, for example an anhydride formed by reaction of the acid with a chloroformate such as isobutyl chloroformate. A suitable protecting group in NU¹ is, for example, an alkyl or aralkyl ether, for example the methyl or benzyl ether, or a tetrahydropyranyl ether, of both of the hydroxy functions. The methyl ether is preferred, and the methyl group is preferably removed with boron tribromide. A preferred process for the manufacture of a phenol derivative of the invention wherein X has the formula S comprises the reaction of a compound of the formula NU¹ A Z², wherein NU¹ and A have the meanings stated above and wherein Z² is a displaceable group, with a compound of the formula R¹SH, wherein R¹ has the meaning stated above, whereafter the protecting groups in NU¹ are removed by conventional means. A suitable value for Z² is, for example, a halogen atom, for example the bromine atom, or a sulphonyloxy group, for example the methanesulphonyloxy or toluene The starting materials for use in all the abovementioned processes may be obtained by elaborating the side chain A COOH or A² CH₂OH onto the nucleus NU¹ by conventional means. Detailed methods for carrying out such an elaboration are hereinafter provided in the Examples, but in general terms a compound of the formula or a triphenylphosphonium bromide of the formula The intermediate of the formula A particularly preferred process for the manufacture of a phenol derivative of the invention comprises the reaction of a compound of the formula A phenol derivative of the invention wherein either substituent R³ is other than hydrogen may be obtained from the corresponding compound wherein either substituent R³ is hydrogen by conventional etherification or esterification processes, and these may also be used in reverse to prepare the corresponding hydroxy compounds. A phenol derivative of the invention wherein X is SO may be obtained by the oxidation of the corresponding compound wherein X is S . The conditions for the oxidation will be chosen to provide the desired product for example aqueous sodium metaperiodate will oxidise the sulphur group to sulphinyl. A phenol derivative of the invention wherein R⁵ and R⁶ form CH₂CH₂ and either R⁴ and R¹⁴ are both hydrogen, or R⁴ and R¹⁴ are joined together so that CR⁴ CR¹⁴ is an olefinic double bond, may be converted into a phenol derivative of the invention wherein both CR⁴ CR¹⁴ and R⁵ R⁶ are CH CH that is, a naphthalene derivative by aromatisation by conventional means, for example with 2,3 dichloro 5,6 dicyano 1,4 benzoquinone. As stated above, a phenol derivative of the invention possesses antioestrogenic activity. This may be demonstrated by its effect in antagonising the increase in weight of the uterus of an immature female rat produced by administering oestradiol benzoate to said rat. Thus, when a phenol derivative of the invention and oestradiol benzoate are co administered for 3 days to such a rat, a smaller increase in uterine weight is produced than the substantial increase which would be produced by the administration of oestradiol benzoate without the phenol derivative of the invention. In particular, a preferred phenol derivative of the invention produces an antioestrogenic effect at a dose which produces no partial agonist effect, unlike the known antioestrogens tamoxifen and clomiphene. When a preferred phenol is coadministered with oestradiol benzoate to a rat as described above, no increase in uterine weight whatsoever is observed at a suitable dose. A compound with the above pharmacological properties is of value in the treatment of the same conditions in which tamoxifen is beneficial, in particular, in the treatment of anovulatory infertility and in the treatment of breast tumours. It is also of value in the treatment of menstrual disorders. When used to produce an anti oestrogenic effect in warm blooded animals, a typical daily dose is from 0.1 to 25 mg kg. administered orally or by injection. In man this is equivalent to an oral dose of from 5 to 1250 mg. day. A phenol derivative of the invention is most conveniently administered to man in the form of a pharmaceutical composition. According to a further feature of the invention, there is provided a pharmaceutical composition comprising a phenol derivative of the invention together with a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent or carrier. The composition may be in a form suitable for oral or parenteral administration. A tablet or capsule is a particularly convenient form for oral administration and such a composition may be made by conventional methods and contain conventional excipients. Thus a tablet could contain diluents, for example mannitol or maize starch, disintegrating agents, for example alginic acid, binding agents, for example methyl cellulose, and lubricating agents, for example magnesium stearate. The composition may contain, in addition to the phenol derivative of the invention, one or more other agents which inhibit or antagonise hormonal action, for example antiandrogenic agents, for example flutamide,antiprogestational agents, or aromatase inhibition, for example aminoglutethimide. A composition for oral administration may conveniently contain from 5 to 500 mg. of a phenol derivative of the invention. The invention is illustrated but not limited by the following Examples A solution of 4 2 hexylthioethyl pyrazole 0.212 g. in dimethylformamide 2 ml. was added to a stirred suspension of sodium hydride 0.48 g. of a 50 dispersion in mineral oil from which the oil had been washed with petroleum ether in dimethylformamide 10 ml. and the mixture was stirred at laboratory temperature for 1 hour. A solution of 1RS,2RS 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 1 4 mesyloxybutyl 6 methoxy 2 A solution of boron tribromide 0.4 g. in methylene chloride 3 ml. was added to a stirred solution of the 1RS,2RS 1 4 4 2 hexylthioethyl pyrazol 1 yl butyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 6 methoxy 2 The 4 2 hexylthioethyl pyrazole used as starting material was obtained as follows Hexanethiol 1.14 g. was added to a stirred suspension of sodium hydride 0.48 g. of a 50 dispersion in mineral oil from which the oil had been washed with petroleum ether in dimethylformamide 10 ml. and the mixture was stirred at laboratory temperature for 1 hour. A solution of 4 2 chloroethyl pyrazole hydrochloride 0.835 g. Journal of the American chemical Society, 1953, The 1RS,2RS 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 1 4 mesyloxybutyl 6 methoxy 2 A solution of 3,4 dihydro 6 methoxy 2 n Butyllithium 40 ml. of a 1.65 molar solution in hexane was added dropwise to a stirred solution of but 3 yn 1 yl tetrahydropyran 2 yl ether 11 g. in tetrahydrofuran 200 ml. which was cooled to 0 C. under an atmosphere of argon, and a solution of the above naphthalenone 9 g. in tetrahydrofuran 100 ml. was added. The mixture was stirred at laboratory temperature for 2 hours and then poured into ice cold, saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 300 ml. The mixture was extracted three times with ethyl acetate 100 ml. each time and the combined extracts were washed with water, dried and evaporated to dryness. The residue was stirred with petroleum ether b.p. 60 80 C. and the mixture was filtered. There was thus obtained 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 6 methoxy 2 A solution of the above naphthol 10 g. in ethyl acetate 250 ml. was stirred in an atmosphere of hydrogen for 90 minutes in the presence of a 10 palladium on charcoal catalyst 3 g. . The mixture was filtered, fresh catalyst 3 g. was added to the filtrate and the mixture was stirred in an atmosphere of hydrogen for a further 90 minutes and then filtered. The filtrate was evaporated to dryness and the residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel column using a 10 1 v v mixture of toluene and ethyl acetate as eluent. There was thus obtained an an oil 1RS, 2RS 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 6 methoxy 2 Aqueous 2N hydrochloric acid 50 ml. was added to a stirred solution of the above compound 6.8 g. in ethanol 200 ml. , and the mixture was stirred and heated under reflux for 2 hours, cooled and evaporated to dryness. Saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 100 ml. was added to the residue, and the mixture was extracted three times with ethyl acetate 100 ml. each time . The combined extracts were washed with water, dried and evaporated to dryness and the residue was purified by chromatography on a silica gel column using a 5 1 v v mixture of toluene and ethyl acetate as eluent. There was thus obtained as an oil 4 1RS, 2RS 6 methoxy 2 A solution of the above butanol 0.5 g. in methylene chloride 10 ml. was cooled to 5 C. and pyridine 0.09 g. and methanesulphonyl chloride mesyl chloride 0.21 g. were successively added. The mixture was allowed to warm up to laboratory temperature and was stirred for 16 hours. Aqueous 2N hydrochloric acid 15 ml. was added, the mixture was extracted three times with methylene chloride 15 ml. each time and the combined extracts were dried and evaporated to dryness. The residue was purified by chromatography on a silica gel column using a 10 1 v v mixture of toluene and ethyl acetate as eluent and there was thus obtained 1RS, 2RS 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 1 4 mesyloxybutyl 6 methoxy 2 A solution of sodium metaperiodate 0.1 g. in water 2 ml. was added to a stirred solution of 1RS,2RS 1 4 4 2 hexylthioethyl pyrazol 1 yl butyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 2 The process described in the first paragraph of Example 1 was repeated except that 4 2 1H,1H,2H,2H,3H,3H heptafluorohexylthio ethyl pyrazole was used as starting material in place of the corresponding hexylthioethylpyrazole. The product obtained was demethylated with boron tribromide as described in the second paragraph of Example 1, and the product of this reaction was oxidised with sodium metaperiodate as described in Example 2. There were thus obtained as oils, successively The pyrazole starting material was obtained by a similar process to that described in the third paragraph of Example 1, except that S 1H,1H,2H,2H,3H,3H heptafluorohexyl isothiouronium A solution of N¹ 5 1RS,2RS 6 methoxy 2 A molar solution of boron tribromide in methylene chloride 1 ml. was added to a stirred solution of the 1RS,2RS 1 4 5 2 hexylthioethyl 1,3,4 oxadiazol 2 yl butyl 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 6 methoxy 2 The N¹ 5 1RS,2RS 6 methoxy 2 A mixture of 1RS,2RS 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 1 4 mesyloxybutyl 6 methoxy 2 The 3 hexylthiopropionohydrazide used as starting material was obtained as follows Hexanethiol 21.1 ml. was added dropwise to a stirred mixture of a solution of 3 bromopropionic acid 15.3 g. in warm isopropanol 200 ml. and a solution of sodium hydroxide 10 g. in water 30 ml. and the reaction mixture was heated under reflux for 24 hours and then evaporated to dryness under reduced pressure. The residue was acidified with aqueous 2N hydrochloric acid and extracted three times with petroleum ether b.p. 60 80 C. . The extracts were combined, washed three times with water and once with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution, dried and evaporated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in diethyl ether and the solution was extracted with aqueous 2N sodium hydroxide solution. The basic aqueous solution was washed with diethyl ether, acidified and extracted three times with diethyl ether. The combined diethyl ether extracts were washed with water, dried and evaporated to dryness. A solution of the 3 hexylthiopropionic acid thus obtained and concentrated sulphuric acid 0.1 ml. in ethanol 100 ml. was heated under reflux for 17 hours and then evaporated to dryness. A solution of the residue in diethyl ether was washed with aqueous sodium hydroxide and then with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution, dried and evaporated to dryness. A solution of the ethyl 3 hexylthiopropionate thus obtained as residue 4.0 g. and hydrazine hydrate 1 ml. in methanol 25 ml. was heated under reflux for 2 hours and then evaporated to dryness. The residue was washed with petroleum ether b.p. 60 80 C. and dried. There was thus obtained 3 hexylthiopropionohydrazide which was used without purification. A mixture of 1RS,2RS 1 4 bromobutyl 2 The 1RS,2RS 1 4 bromobutyl 2 The 4 2 pentylthioethyl piperazine hydrobromide used as starting material was obtained as follows A solution of the 2 4 benzyloxycarbonylpiperazin 1 yl ethanol thus obtained 10.0 g. in pyridine 100 ml. was treated at 5 C. with 2 4 benzyloxycarbonylpiperazin 1 yl ethyl A solution of the 1 benzyloxycarbonyl 4 2 pentylthioethyl piperazine thus obtained in a 48 v v solution of hydrogen bromide in acetic acid 3 ml. was stirred at laboratory temperature for 17 hours and then evaporated to dryness. The residue was stirred with diethyl ether and the solvent was decanted off. There was thus obtained as residue 4 2 pentylthioethyl piperazine hydrobromide. The process described in Example 5 was repeated using the appropriate 1RS,2RS or 1RS,2SR isomer of 1 4 bromobutyl 2 The cyclic amine starting materials were obtained as follows A solution of this butyric acid 4.6 g. and oxalyl chloride 3.9 ml. in methylene chloride 13 ml. was stirred at laboratory temperature until the evolution of gas was complete. The mixture was evaporated to dryness and to a solution of the residue in methylene chloride was added at 5 C. A mixture of the N A mixture of the