# COMPOSITIONS FOR ENZYME IMMUNOASSAY OF PROSTAGLANDINS

## Claims
Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragsstaaten BE, CH, DE, FR, GB, IT, LI, LU, NL, SE

## Description
The present invention relates to compositions for the enzyme immunoassay EIA of prostaglandins abbreviated as PGs hereafter and methods for the determination of PGs by using them. More particularly, the present invention relates to compositions for EIA by means of the Double Antibody Solid Phase method abbreviated as DASP method hereafter using PGs as the sample, and methods for determination of PGs by using them. Now, PGs in biological fluids, especially in blood or urine in various diseases have been measured and the relation between diseases and PGs has been discussed cf. The Japanese Journal of Clinical Medicine, Further, EIA includes two methods, ie the Solid Phase Antibody method or simply called Solid Phase method and the Double Antibody Liquid Phase method or simply called DA method cf. Abstracts on General Meeting of the Japanese Biochemical society in 1983, page 797 1983 and Enzyme Immunoassay the 2nd Edition, edited by Eizi Ishikawa et al, published by Igakushoin 1982 which is abbreviated as literature A hereafter, page 403 . Chemical Abstracts Chemical Abstracts 1983 GC MS is appreciated as an excellent standard method and RIA is a good method in which relatively many samples can be measured sensitively at the same time, both methods being well known. In EIA by means of the Solid Phase Antibody method, PGs in a sample can be determined by subjecting PGs in the sample and enzyme labelled PGs to competitive immuno reaction for an antibody linked to a support, and then measuring the enzyme activity. In EIA by means of the Double Antibody Liquid Phase method, PGs in a sample can be determined by subjecting PGs in the sample and enzyme labelled PGs to competitive immuno reaction for a first antibody, precipitating by a second antibody, and then measuring the enzyme activity in the precipitates. On the other hand, EIA by means of the DASP method is also known in the art cf. literature A , page 35 . In the method, a substance in a sample can be determined by subjecting the substance in the sample and an enzyme labelkled substance to be measured to competitive immuno reaction for a first antibody, binding to a second antibody linked to a support, separating the binding substance thus obtained, and then measuring the enzyme activity of the enzyme labelled actigen bound to the second antibody. It is known that EIA by means of the DASP method is applicable to the determination of various substances to be measured other than PGs, for example Heretofore, there has been no teaching to employ EIA by means of DASP method to the determination of PGs. All conventional methods for determination of PGs, however, have great defects and there is no method for determination by which trace of PGs can be measured highly sensitively by a more simplified procedure. That is, in GC MS, pretreatment which requires complicated and high technique is essential to clinical application, for example, the extraction of PGs from a sample and the conversion of them into their derivatives suitable for measuring. Therefore, a large quantity of sample is required and many samples can not be measured at the same time. Further, expensive equipment for analysis is required and it is impractical. In RIA, it is necessary that radioactive isotopes should be treated by specialists in a specially controlled laboratory, and, furthermore, the method has the defect that it is difficult to maintain stable measuring system because the quality of the radio labelled reagents changes with time. In EIA by means of the Solid Phase Antibody method, the first antibody which is prepared using expensive and valuable PGs is required in quantity because the first antibody should be linked to a support, and, therefore, the method is not economical. Further, it has the defect that the method is liable to be affected by contaminants in the sample because of competitive reaction between labelled antigen and unlabelled antigen using the first antibody linked to a support, and, therefore, that the assay is insufficiently precise. In EIA by means of the Double Antibody Liquid Phase method, a large quantity of the second antibody is required in order to separate bound from free and complicated procedures such as centrifugation for separation are required. Furthermore, it has the defect that the precision is insufficient. There are some examples that EIA by means of DASP method should be applied to the determination of various substance to be measured other than PGs cf. item of the DASP method in the above Prior Arts passage. It is a fact that the range and limitation of detection is affected by the type of substance to be measured. It, therefore, cannot be anticipated at all whether or not the range and limitation of detection and assay precision having practical value can be obtained when the method is applied to the determination of PGs. Research and development have been carried out in order to establish a method for determination by which trace amounts of the substance PGs in a sample can be measured with high sensitivity by more simplified procedures. As a result of energetic investigation of the possibility of PGs being determined by EIA by means of the DASP method, the determination of PGs by the said method has been successful for the first time and it is found to be of practical value. Unexpectedly, it has now been found that EIA by means of the DASP method is surprisingly excellent in the limitation and range of detection and assay precision. Accordingly, an object of the present invention is to provide new compositions for the enzyme immunoassay of a prostaglandin by means of the Double Antibody Solid Phase method. Another main object of the present invention is to provide methods for determination of prostaglandins by using the said compositions. In the drawings Accordingly, the present invention is concerned with compositions for EIA of PGs which comprises at least the following reagents and methods for determination of PGs by using them. In the compositions of the present invention, Reagent A , B and C hereinbefore described are essential constituents. The present compositions may, if necessary, comprise standard PGs for preparing a calibration curve, a set of reagents required for measuring the activity of labelled enzymes e.g. substrate, solvent for the substrate and stopper of enzymatic reaction , buffer solutions as subsidiary constituents. The term PGs as used in the present invention, i.e. PGs which can be determined by using the compositions of the Present invention, refers to derivatives of prostanoic acid having a PC skeleton and to any PGs such that an antibody can be formed when immunizing an animal with the conjugate of a functional group in PGs e.g. a carboxyl group or an amino group and a protein. Any PG which forms part of the so called Arachidonate Cascade and which exists in a stable form may be included. Examples of such PGs are PG compounds, thromboxane abbreviated as TX hereinafter compounds and leukotriene abbreviated as LX hereinafter compounds, e.g. PGA₁, PGA₂, PGA₃, PCB₁, PGB₂, PGB₃, PGC₁, PGC₂, PGC₃, PGD₁, PGD₂, PGD₃, PGE₁, PGE₂, PGE₃, PGF The process for the preparation of reagents constituting the present invention is as follows. The first antibody of Reagent A may be prepared by subjecting a carboxyl group, an amino group or a characterized group newly introduced, of PGs to a conjugation reaction with a characterized group of a protein such as an amino group, a mercapto group, or a hydroxy group, emulsifying the resulting conjugate of PG and protein with an appropriate adjuvant, administering the emulsion to the first animal to immunize, and then collecting serum. Examples of suitable proteins are albumin, globulin, cycloglobulin, hemocyanin and, edestin preferably albumin. The conjugating reaction of a hapten i.e. PGs with a protein is known, and, for example, is described in literature A , at page 82 in particular. That is, the reaction may be carried out in a suitable solvent e.g. phosphate buffer , when PGs can be directly conjugated with a protein, by employing a method using a carbodiimide or a method using an acid anhydride, preferably by employing the method using cyclohexylcarbodiimide or using 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylaminopropyl carbodiimide as a conjugating agent, or when PGs can not be directly conjugated with a protein, by employing the method using a spacer known in the field, e.g. 1,5 difluoro 2,4 dinitrobenzene. After reaction, the resulting conjugate may be isolated and purified by column chromatography. Any adjuvants known in this field can be used, for example, complete or incomplete Freund s adjuvant or aluminium hydroxide. The method for immunization is also known. That is, the immunization is carried out by administering an emulsion of the conjugate of PGs and protein, with the above adjuvant to a suitable animal e.g. rats, mice, guinea pigs, rabbits, cats, dogs, sheep and goats at an appropriate interval for several months. After immunization, serum from the animal may be collected by known methods to obtain the desirable first antibody Rinshokensa, vol. 26 7 , page 777 1982 abbreviated as the literature B hereafter . Practically, many PGs having an analogous chemical structure other than the PGs to be measured also exist in the sample in many cases. Accordingly, it is necessary to obtain an antibody having a high specificity to the PGs to be measured. For example, PGF MUM has two carboxyl groups. Therefore, an antibody having high specificity to PGF MUM may be obtained by protecting the carboxyl group in α chain in form or δ lactone and then conjugating with a protein. An antibody having high specificity to PGE MUM may be obtained by converting PGE MUM into the bicyclo compound thereof by alkaline treatment, and then conjugating with a protein. In LTC₄, an antibody having high specificity and selectivity cannot be obtained by the mixed acid anhydride method because of three carboxyl groups in the structure of LTC₄ cf. structural formula as shown in Example 4 hereinafter . Giving attention to only one amino group in the molecular, an antibody having high selectivity can be obtained by conjugating the amino group with a protein using a spacer. The antigen of Reagent B may be prepared by labelling PGs with an enzyme. That is, the binding of PGs to an enzyme may be carried out by using the conjugation reaction of PGs with a protein as hereinbefore described in processes for the preparation of Reagent A . It, preferably, may be carried out by a method using a mixed acid anhydride using isobutylchloroformate or by a method using 4 N maleimidomethyl cyclohexane 1 carboxylic acid N hydroxysuccineimide ester as a spacer. PGs to be used herein may be those to be measured or any other PGs. Enzymes to be used herein may be any enzymes which are generally used in EIA except for acetylcholine esterase derived from electrophones electricus, for example, malate dehydrogenase, glucose 6 phosphate dehydrogenase, glucose oxidase, peroxidase, acetylcholine esterase from species other than electrophorus electricus, alkaline phosphatase, glucoamylase, lysozyme, β D galactosidase, preferably β D galactosidase cf. the literature A , page 67 . In order to enhance the specificity of enzyme labelled PGs, techniques as hereinbefore described in processes for the preparation of Reagent A may be carried out. The sensitivity of determination may, if necessary, be enhanced by changing the quantity of PGs to be bound to an enzyme. The second antibody of Reagent C may be prepared by administering γ globulin or immunoglobulin G of the same species of animal as used for immunization in preparing the first antibody of Reagent A , to another species of animal, and then immunizing by generally known methods cf. the literature B . The antibody for the serum of another species of animal is on the market, and may be used. The linkage of the second antibody to a support may be carried out by generally known methods, that is, by physical adsorption or by chemical bond. Any support materials generally used for EIA may be used in the present invention, for example, a polysaccharide such as agarose, dextran and cellulose, a synthetic resin such as polystyrene, glass or polyacrylamide. Any shapes easily separable may be taken for support of the Present invention, for example, small spheres, small test tubes, tubes, fibers, microplates. Polystyrene balls or glass beads are preferred cf. Koteika Koso , edited by Ichiro Chihata, published by Kohdansha 1975 in detail . The standard PGs for preparing a calibration curve, a set of reagents required for measuring the activity of the labelled enzyme and buffer solutions, which may be contained in the compositions of the present invention, may be prepared by methods known The present invention, furthermore, relates to methods for determination of PGs by using the composition of this invention. The methods for determination may be carried out as follows Both methods may be preferably used. It is necessary to use either method depending on the substances to be measured. When PGF MUM, PGE MUM or TXB₂ is measured, the method ii is preferred and when LTC₄ is measured, the method i is preferred. The first reaction in the method i , and the first and second reaction in the method ii may be carried out at a temperature from 25 C to 37 C for one to four hours. The sensitivity of determination is not influenced in the range of temperature and time of the reaction hereinbefore described and stable measurement is possible. The second reaction in the method i and the third reaction in the method ii may be carried out at 4 C overnight. The method for measuring the enzyme activity nay be carried out by methods known The following Examples illustrate, but do not limit, the present invention in detail. PGF MUM has the following structural formula The δ lactone compound of PGF MUM has the following structural formula and may be easily prepared chemically. 4 mg of δ lactone compound of PGF MUM and 8 mg of bovine serum albumin abbreviated as BSA hereafter were dissolved in each 4 ml of 0.01M phosphate buffer pH 7.3 and both solutions were mixed. After adding thereto 4 mg of 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylaminopropyl carbodiimide hydrochloride, the mixture was adjusted to pH 5.5 by adding hydrochloric acid and reacted at 4 C for 24 hours under an atmosphere of nitrogen. The reaction mixture thus obtained was dialyzed at 4 C for 24 hours against 0.01M phosphate buffer pH 7.3 containing 0.15M sodium chloride and then was lyophilized to obtain 8.4 mg of conjugate. The conjugation ratio of PGF MUM for BSA was calculated by adding ³H PGF MUM to reaction system and was 10 mol PGF MUM mol BSA. 0.5 ml of complete Freund s adjuvant was added to a solution of one mg of the conjugate in 0.5 ml of physiological saline solution and emulsified. The emulsion thus obtained was administered intradermally to dorsal skin and paws of male Japanese white rabbits to immunize. The immunization was carried out six times at two week intervals and blood was collected from the carotid artery after two weeks from the latest immunization. Blood thus obtained was allowed to stand for 30 minutes at room temperature and the serum was collected by centrifugation to obtain the first antibody. The first antibody thus obtained was stored at 20 C after lyophilization. A mixture of 2.5 µl of tri n butylamine in 25 µl of dioxane, 1.3 µl of isobutylchloroformate in 25 µl of dioxane and 2 mg of δ lactone compound of PGF MUM in 50 µl of dioxane was reacted at 10 C for 30 minutes. The reaction mixture was added dropwise at 10 C over 10 minutes to a solution of 0.4 mg of β D galactosidase manufactured by Boehringer Mannheim in 0.7 ml of 0.5 sodium bicarbonate. The solution thus obtained was allowed to stand at 4 C for two hours under an atmosphere of nitrogen and purified by Sephadex G 25 column manufactured by Pharmacia 1.0 x 20 cm to obtain FMO. IgG i.e. immunoglobulin G fraction of the second antibody was prepared by employing DEAE cellulose column chromatography and Na₂SO₄ fraction from sheep anti rabbit γ globulin antiserum prepared by Daiichi Radioisotope Cf. Men eki Jikken Sohsa hou, edited by the Japanese Immunology Association, vol. IV, page 1137 1975 . 3000 polystyrene balls were soaked in 500 ml of 0.05M phosphate buffer pH 7.4 containing 1 mg ml of the second antibody IgG and were allowed to stand for two hours at room temperature and then overnight at 4 C for absorption to obtain desired DASP ball. A kit comprises the following reagents Frozen urine was thawed and centrifuged for ten minutes 3000 rpm . Its supernatant was used as an urine sample. 0.5 ml of the first antibody reagent c in the kit was added to each 20 µl of the urine sample or standard PGF MUM having various concentrations reagent b in the kit and the solution was reacted for one hour at 37 C defined as the first reaction . DASP balls reagent e in the kit were added to the first reaction mixture one DASP ball sample and reacted for two hours at 37 C defined as the second reaction . 0.1 ml of FMO reagent d in the kit was added to the second reaction mixture containing DASP ball and the mixture was reacted overnight at 4 C defined as the third reaction . After reaction, the supernatant was discarded and the remaining DASP ball was washed twice with 2.5 ml of Buff A solution reagent a in the kit and then the ball was reacted in 0.5 ml off the substrate of enzyme reagent f in the kit for 30 to 60 minutes at 37 C in order to measure the activity off β D galactosidase bound to DASP ball. The reaction was stopped by adding 2.5 ml of the stopper of enzymatic reaction reagent g in the kit . Fluorescence intensity of the produced 4 methylumbelliferone was measured. The wavelengths fixed for excitation and emission was 360 and 450 nm, respectively. The calibration curve is shown in Figure 1. It was found that PGF MUM in urine can be measured in the range of 10 to 5000 pg by using the composition of the present invention. The correlation between the concentration of PGF MUM measured in Example 1 Y 50 samples and that measured by the RIA method X described in Prostaglandins, vol. 10, page 549 555 1975 is shown in Figure 2. The concentration of PGF MUM in urine of healthy human, measured by using the composition of Example 1 was in the range from 3.1 to 60.0 ng ml mean value 24.1 PGE MUM has the following structural formula PGE MUM may be easily converted into the stable bicyclo compound of PGE MUM having the following structural formula by alkaline treatment. By the same procedure as described in Example 1 1 , the first antibody was prepared by using 4 mg of the bicyclo compound of PGE MUM and 6 mg of BSA. The conjugation ratio of PGE MUM for BSA was 10 mol bicyclo compound of PGE MUM mol BSA. By the same procedure as described in Example 1 2 , EMO was prepared by using 100 µg of the bicyclo compound of PGE MUM and 0.4 mg of β D galactosidase. DASP ball was prepared by the same procedure as described in Example 1 3 . A kit comprises the following reagents As pre treatment, to 0.1 ml of the supernatant obtained by thawing the freezed urine and then by centrifuging, was added 0.1 ml of the solution for conversion reagent d in the kit and the obtained solution was reacted for one hour at room temperature. To the reaction solution was added 0.1 ml of the solution for neutralization reagent e in the kit and the obtained solution was diluted with 5 ml of the buffer solution 2 reagent b in the kit to obtain an urine sample. 0.5 ml of the first antibody reagent g in the kit was added to each 0.1 ml of the urine sample or standard PGE MUM having various concentration reagent f in the kit and the mixture was reacted for one hour at 37 C defined as the first reaction . DASP balls reagent i in the kit were added to the first reaction mixture one DASP ball sample and reacted for two hours at 37 C defined as the second reaction . 0.1 ml off EMO reagent h in the kit was added to the second reaction mixture containing DASP ball and the mixture was reacted overnight at 4 C defined as the third reaction . After reaction, the supernatant was discarded and the remaining DASP ball was washed twice with 2.5 ml of Buff A solution reagent a in the kit and then the activity of β D galactosidase bound to DASP ball was measured by the same procedure as described in Example 1 5 . The calibration curve is shown in Figure 3. It was found that the bicyclo compound of PGE MUM in urine can be measured in the range of 0.5 to 2000 pg by using the composition of the present invention. The correlation between the concentration of the bicyclo compound of PGE MUM measured in Example 2 Y 39 samples and that measured by the RIA method X described in Advance in Prostaglandins, Thromboxane, and Leukotriene Research, vol. 11, page 191 196 1983 is shown in Figure 4. TXB₂ has the following structural formula By the same procedure as described in Example 1 1 , the first antibody was prepared by using 4 mg of TXB₂ and 8 mg of BSA. The conjugation ratio of TXB₂ for BSA was 9.4 mol TXB₂ mol BSA. By the same procedure as described in Example 1 2 , TBG was prepared by using 250 µg of TXB₂ and 0.4 mg of β D galactosidase. After about 1000 glass beads were soaked in the detergent containing proteolytic enzyme overnight for washing enough, they were dried for 5 hours at 500 C. The beads thus obtained were soaked in 100 ml of acetone containing 2 3 aminopropyltriethoxysilane, allowed to stand for 24 hours at 45 C, and then washed with acetone several times and dried at room temperature. The beads thus obtained were soaked in 1 aqueous solution of glutaraldehyde allowed to stand for one hour at room temperature, and then washed enough with water and 0.25M phosphate buffer pH 7.5 , successively. The beads thus obtained were soaked in 100 ml of 0.25M phosphate buffer pH 7.5 containing 13 mg of the second antibody IgG prepared in Example 1 3 , and were allowed to stand overnight at 4 C for absorption to obtain desired DASP ball. A kit comprises the following reagents Abdominal ascites of rats from which blood cell was removed by centrifugation, were diluted with Buf A solution reagent a in the kit 10 times to be used as an sample. 0.5 ml of the first antibody reagent c in the kit was added to each 0.1 ml of the sample or standard TXB₂ having various concentration reagent b in the kit and the mixture was reacted for one hour at 37 C defined as the first reaction . DASP balls reagent e in the kit were added to the first reaction mixture one DASP ball sample and reacted for two hours at 37 C defined as the second reaction . 0.1 ml of TBG reagent d in the kit was added to the second reaction mixture containing DASP ball and the mixture was reacted overnight at 4 C defined as the third reaction . After reaction, the supernatant was discarded and the remaining DASP ball was washed twice with 2.5 ml of Buf A solution reagent a in the kit and then the activity of β D galactosidase bound to DASP ball was measured by the same procedure as described in Example 1 15 . The calibration curve is shown in Figure 5. It was found that TXB₂ in abdominal ascites can be measured in the range of 2 to 1000 pg by using the composition of the present invention. The correlation between the concentration of TXB₂ measured in Example 3 Y 8 samples and that measured by the RIA method X is shown in Figure 6. LTC₄ has the following structural formula A solution of 10 mg of 1,5 difluoro 2,4 dinitrobenzene DFDNB in 0.7 ml of methanol was added to a solution of 2.5 mg of LTC₄ in 0.5 ml of 0.1M phosphate buffer pH 7.2, degassed and replaced by argon gas and the mixture was stirred for 30 minutes at 24 C. After reaction, methanol was removed by using argon gas and unreacted DFDNB was removed from the reaction mixture by the extraction with diethyl ether 0.5 ml x 3 times . After diethyl ether remaining in the solution was removed by using argon gas, a solution of 10 mg of BSA in one ml of 0.2M borate buffer pH 8.5, degassed and replaced by argon gas was added thereto, and the solution thus obtained was allowed to stand for two days at room temperature under an atmosphere of argon with shading the light. After reaction, the reaction mixture was purified by Sephadex G 25 column manufactured by Pharmacia 1.0 x 50 cm with shading the light by using distilled water degassed and replaced by argon gas as eluent to obtain a protein fraction. The obtained fraction was lyophilized to obtain 9.8 mg of conjugate. The conjugation ratio of LTC₄ for BSA was 8.14 mol LTC₄ mol BSA. One ml of incomplete Freund s adjuvant was added to a solution of one mg of the conjugate thus obtained in 0.5 ml of physiological saline solution and emulsified under an atmosphere of argon. The obtained emulsion was administered subcutaneously to the dorsal neck of rabbits at 15 points to immunize. The immunization was carried out four times at three week intervals and blood was collected after 10 days from the latest immunization and then the serum was collected by centrifugation to obtain the first antibody. A solution of one mg of 4 N maleimidomethyl cyclohexane 1 carboxylic acid N hydroxysuccinimide ester MCAE in 0.1 ml of tetrahydrofuran was added to a solution of 100 µg of LTC₄ in one ml of 0.075M phosphate buffer pH 7.2, degassed and replaced by argon gas and the mixture was reacted for 30 minutes at 24 C under an atmosphere of argon. After reaction, tetrahydrofuran was removed by using argon gas and unreacted MCAE was removed from the reaction mixture by the extraction with diethyl ether 1 ml x 3 times . Diethyl ether remaining in the aqueous layer was completely removed by using argon gas to obtain cyclohexylmaleimide derivative of LTC₄. The derivative thus obtained was added dropwise to a solution of 1.5 mg of β D galactosidase in one ml of 0.075M phosphate buffer pH 7.2, degassed and replaced by argon gas under an atmosphere of argon. After addition the mixture was stirred for 30 minutes at 24 C and the reaction mixture thus obtained was purified by Sephadex G 25 column manufactured by Pharmacia 1.0 x 50 cm to obtain LCG. DASP ball was prepared by the same procedure as described in Example 1 3 . A kit comprises the following reagents Abdominal ascites of rats pretreated by the same procedure as described in Example 3 5 were used as a sample. 0.5 ml of the first antibody reagent c in the kit and 0.1 ml of LCG reagent d in the kit were added to each 0.1 ml of the sample or standard LTC₄ having various concentration reagent b in the kit . The mixture was reacted for one hour at 25 C defined as the first reaction . DASP balls reagent e in the kit were added to the first reaction mixture one DASP ball sample and reacted overnight at 4 C. After reaction, the supernatant was discarded and the remaining DASP ball was washed twice with 2.5 ml of Buf A solution reagent a in the kit and then the activity of β D galactosidase bound to DASP ball was measured by the same procedure as described in Example 1 5 . The calibration curve is shown in Figure 7. It was found that LTC₄ in abdominal ascites can be measured in the range of 10 to 5000 pg by using the composition of the present invention. The correlation between the concentration of LTC₄ measured in Example 4 Y 12 samples and that measured by the RIA method X is shown in Figure 8. As can be understood from the Examples, trace amounts of the substance in samples can be measured by more simplified procedure by using the compositions for measurement of the present invention. Furthermore, it has now been found that the method of the present invention is surprisingly excellent in the range and limitation of detection, and assay precision. The method of the present invention can be compared with conventional methods in the range and limitation of detection, and assay precision as shown in the following Table 1. As understood from the Table, the determination by the method of the present invention Apart from the above, the determination by the method of the present invention has the following characteristics.