# DYNAMIC RAM

## Claims
Dynamischer RAM mit einer Vielzahl von Wortleitungen WL1, WL2, ... , einer Vielzahl von Bitleitungen BLj, BLj , die die Wortleitungen WL1, WL2 ... kreuzend angeordnet sind, einer Speicheranordnung 13 , die aus Speicherzellen gebildet ist, die an den Kreuzungspunkten der Wortleitungen und der Bitleitungen Blj, BLj angeordnet sind, einem Zeilendekoder 14 und einem Spaltendekoder 15 zum Spezifizieren einer vorgegebenen Adresse in der Speicheranordnung, einem Leseverstärker 16 zum Verstärken von Daten, die über die Bitleitungen BLj, BLj aus einer spezifizierten Speicherzelle MCij in der Speicheranordnung 13 ausgelesen werden, einem Adresseneingabeschaltkreis 17 zum Liefern eines Adreßsignales an den Zeilendekoder 14 und den Spaltendekoder 15 , und einem Eingabe Ausgabeschaltkreis 18 zum Bilden der Form des Ausgangssignales des Leseverstärkers 16 oder des Signales, welches Daten darstellt, die in die spezifizierte Speicherzelle MCij geschrieben werden sollen, einem Auffrischungsschaltkreis 19 zum Auffrischen der Speicherzellen MC1, MC2, ... der Speicheranordnung 13 für jede Zeile, durch Liefern eines Zeilenauffrisch Adreßsignales RRA an den Zeilendekoder 14 , Schalteinrichtungen SW1, SW2 zum Aktivieren einer der Wortleitungen WL1, WL2, ... gemäß einem Zeilenadreßsignal Radd , das von dem Adresseneingabeschaltkreis 17 ausgegeben wird, oder einem Zeilenauffrisch Adreßsignal RRA , das von dem Auffrischungsschaltkreis 19 ausgegeben wird,

## Description
The present invention relates to a semiconductor memory device, and more particularly to a dynamic RAM random access memory requiring a refresh. US A 433 3167 shows a dynamic RAM including a plurality of word lines, a plurality of bit lines disposed crossing said word lines, a memory array made up of memory cells located at the cross points of said word lines and said bit lines, a row decoder and a column decoder for specifying a given address in said memory array, a sense amplifier for amplifying data read out of one specified memory cell in said memory array through said bit lines, an address input circuit for supplying an addressing signal to said row decoder and said column decoder, and an input output circuit for waveshaping the output signal from said sense amplifier or the signal representative of data to be written into said specified memory cell. US A 4 330 852 shows a dynamic RAM device with a serial shift register output stage and discloses in the document abstract a method of performing refresh controlled by an external refresh controller during the operation of the shift registers. A dynamic RAM device containing refresh control and synchronization circuitry is known from DE A 2 543 515. An example of how a conventional dynamic RAM is configured is shown in Fig. 1. In the figure, the dynamic RAM is partially illustrated, with a pair of bit lines BLj and BLj j 1,2,3, ... and their peripheral circuitry. Each of memory cells MC1,MC2, ... is made up of a capacitor Cs and a transfer gate MOS FET Q. A charged state of the capacitor Cs represents data 1 , while a discharged state of it, data 0 . To select memory cells MCi i 1,2,3, ... , the transfer gates Q of the memory cells MC1,MC2, ... are selectively controlled in conduction by potentials of the word lines WL1,WL2, ..., respectively. To select a specific memory cell MCij, the word liens WL1,WL2, ... and the bit line pair BLj and BLj are driven. The data is read out from the selected memory cell MCij onto the bit line pair BLj and BLj. The data read out is amplified by a sense amplifier 11. The sense amplifier 11 is controlled by a sense amplifier enable signal SE. Dummy cells DC1 and DC2 are provided for the bit line pair BLj and BLj in a one to one correspondence manner. These dummy cells DC1 and DC2 are selected by the word lines DWL1 and DWL2, respectively. To read out the data from the memory cells MC3 and MC4 connected to the bit line The charge stored in the memory cells MC1, MC2, ..., as data, leaks to decrease with time. To cope with this stored charge decrease problem, it is necessary to read out the data before it completely disappears, and to write the same data into the memory cells, again. This operation is called a refresh. The refresh is essential to the dynamic RAM. In a dynamic RAM of 256 Kilo bits, all of the memory cells are refreshed every 4 mS. The refresh restrains the normal memory operation speed of the dynamic RAM. For example, as shown in Fig. 2, the refresh Rf is required every fixed period. During this period Rf, the normal memory operation Na is impossible. During the refreshing period of the memory cell MC1, for example, the potentials on the bit line pair The refresh operation and the normal memory operation, i.e. the read and the write operations, will be described referring to a timing chart shown in Fig. 3. At time t0, the first cycle of the operation of the dynamic RAM starts when an address signal Add changes or a chip enable signal is applied to the RAM. At time t1, any one of the word lines WL1, WL2, ... in this example, the word line WL1 is selected by the output signal of a row decoder not shown . Upon this selection, the word line WL1 becomes H in logical level, and a memory cell MC1 is selected. The data is read out from the memory cell MC1 onto the bit line BLj connected to this memory cell MC1. At this time. the word line DWL1 is H , and a signal as a reference is read out of the dummy cell DC1 to the bit line In a read out mode of the RAM, the bit line pair As described above, the dynamic RAM requires a smaller number of circuit elements than the static RAM. However, the former has a disadvantage that it is difficult to increase the memory speed. Further, users of the dynamic RAM must inevitably find the optimum timing for the refresh operation. This work is troublesome for the users. Accordingly, an object of the present invention is to provide a dynamic RAM which reduces the delay by the refresh so as to speed up the access time and the troublesome work of finding timings for the refresh. According to the present invention, there is provided a dynamic RAM comprising a plurality of word lines, a plurality of bit lines disposed crossing the word lines, a memory array made up of memory cells located at the cross points of the word lines and the bit lines, a row decoder and a column decoder for specifying a given address in the memory array, a sense amplifier for amplifying data read out of one specified memory cell in the memory array through the bit lines, an address input circuit for supplying a signal for addressing to the row decoder and the column decoder, and an input output circuit for waveshaping the output signal from said sense amplifier or the signal representative of data to be written into said specified memory cell, a refresh circuit for refreshing the memory cells of the memory array for each row by supplying a refresh row address signal to the row decoder, switching means for activating one of said word lines according to a row address signal output from the address input circuit or a refresh row address signal output from the refresh circuit, and control means for activating said refresh circuit both during an operation delay of the address input circuit and during an operation delay of the input output circuit by controlling the switching means, thereby making the refresh of the memory cells during a normal access operation. With such an arrangement, the delay of the access time due to the refresh operation is decreased to speed up the memory operation. In use, users can use the dynamic RAM caring nothing for timings for the refreshing operation. This invention can be more fully understood from the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which Reference is made to Fig. 4 illustrating a first embodiment of a dynamic RAM according to the present invention. Of a group of memory cells making up a memory array 13, those arrayed in the row direction are selected by a row decoder 14. The memory cells in the column direction are selected by a column decoder 15. The data read out from the memory array 13 is amplified by a column sense amplifier 16. An address input circuit 17 waveshapes an address signal Add as input thereto, and supplies it to the decoder 14 and the column decoder 15. According to the output signals from the decoders 14 and 15, the memory array 13 is addressed and a memory cell at the address is specified. An input output circuit 18 waveshapes input data Din and supplies it to the memory cell selected by the output signals of the decoder 14 and the column decoder 15. The input output circuit 18 also waveshapes data read out from the memory cell as selected by the decoder 14 and the column decoder 15, and provides output data Dout. The refresh circuit 19 refreshes the memory cells of the memory array. Either of the output signals of the refresh circuit 19 or the address input circuit 17 is selected by switches SW1 and SW2 according to their switching states. The switches SW1 and SW2 are selectively on off controlled by the output signal from the switch selector 20. The memory array 13 is arranged, as shown in Fig. 1. A plurality of word lines and a plurality of bit lines are intercrossed. Memory cells are located at the cross points to form an array of memory cells. The operation of this dynamic RAM will be described referring to a timing chart shown in Fig. 5. At time t0, an address signal Add changes or upon reception of a chip enable signal, the RAM is enabled. A first cycle of the memory operation starts. At this time, the switch selector 20 places the switch SW1 in an on state, and the switch SW2 in an off state. Under this condition, the circuit state of the RAM is equal to that of the RAM of Fig. 1. The operation of the RAM to refresh the memory cell MC3 when the data is read out from the memory cell MC1 in Fig. 1 will be given. At time t1, the word line WL1 is selected by the output signal from the decoder 14, so that the logical state of the signal on the word line WL1 is H . The memory cell MC1 is selected, and data stored in the memory cell MC1 is read out therefrom onto the bit line BLj. At this time, potential on the word line DWL1 is H in logical level, to read out a signal as a reference from a dummy cell DC1 onto the bit line In this way, the memory cell MC3 is refreshed while the access operation to the memory cell MC1 is performed. At the end of one cycle of the memory operation, the switch selector 20 turns on the switch SW1, and turns off the switch SW2. The next new address signal Add is input to the address input circuit 17. The second cycle of the memory operation starts. Fig. 6 shows the details of the circuit of Fig. 4. In Fig. 6, like symbols are used for designating like or equivalent portions in Fig. 4. A row address buffer 21 waveshapes a row address signal RAdd. The buffer 21 is controlled by the output signal from a control circuit 22. Under this control, the buffer 21 is selected. At this time, the buffer 21 produces a row address signal Add as waveshaped and applies it to an address multiplexer 23. A column address buffer 24 receives a column address signal CAdd, and waveshapes the signal. The buffer 24 produces the column address signal CAdd as waveshaped when this buffer 24 is selected under control of the control circuit 22, and applies the signal to a column decoder 15. The row address buffer 21 and the column address buffer 24 correspond to an address input circuit in Fig. 4. A refresh timer 25 produces pulses at fixed time intervals, i.e. every time the refresh is required. When the the refresh is required, the timer 25 applies a refresh request signal to a mode selector 26, which is for selecting either a normal memory operation mode normal mode or a refresh mode. At this time, the timer 25 applies a count up signal CU to a refresh counter 27. Upon receipt of this signal CU, the counter 27 counts up to increase the refresh row address by one. The refresh row address means an address to be refreshed. The refresh counter 27 sequentially counts up by the output pulse of the refresh timer 25, to produce a refresh row address. The refresh timer 25 and the refresh counter 27 correspond to the refresh circuit 19 in Fig. 4. The refresh row address signal RRA output from the refresh counter 27 is supplied to the address multiplexer 23. The multiplexer 23 corresponds to the switches SW1 and SW2 in Fig. 4. The mode selector 26 selects either of the row address signal RAdd supplied to the multiplexer 23 or the refresh row address signal RRA. The mode selector 26 corresponds to the switch selector 20 in Fig. 4. The signal selected is supplied to a row decoder 14. The selector 26 receives a request signal for the normal mode referred to as a normal request signal from the control circuit 22 and also receives a refresh request signal RR from the refresh timer 25. In place of receiving the normal request signal, a change in the row address signal RAdd can be detected from the row address buffer 21. If some operation is being performed in the memory array 13, the reception of the request signal is rejected. Whether such operation is present or not is detected by the signal transfer between the timing generator 28 and the mode selector 26. When that operation terminates, the normal or the refresh request signal is accepted. For example, for the acceptance of the refresh request signal RR, by the address multiplexer 23, the refresh row address signal RRA output from the refresh counter 27 is supplied to the row decoder 14. Then, the refresh operation is performed. When the normal request signal is accepted, the row address signal RAdd output from the row address buffer 21 is supplied to the row decoder 14. The normal memory operation is executed. When the requests for the refresh mode and the normal mode concurrently occur, either of the request signals has a priority to operate. The mode selector 26 must prevent the concurrence of both the normal and the refresh modes. In addition to the signal transfer to and from the mode selector 26, the timing generator 28 has the following function. In response to the signals from the row address buffer 21, the column address buffer 24, and the control circuit 22, the generator 28 controls the timings in the operations of the word line driver 29, the column sense amplifier 16, the column decoder 15, and the input output buffer 30. The word line driver 29 is a bootstrap circuit for applying a higher voltage than the power voltage to the word lines. The output signal of the driver 29 is applied to the row decoder 14. The driver 29 is controlled by the timing generator 28, as mentioned above. A chip enable signal The timing generator 28, the column sense amplifier 16, the column decoder 15, the row decoder 14, the input output buffer 30 and the control circuit 22 are similar to those in the conventional dynamic RAM. In this embodiment, the input output buffer 30 is not operated in the fresh mode. The reason for this is that it is not necessary to inform an exterior unit as to the contents of the memory cell as refreshed. Prevention of the operation of the buffer 30 is realized in the following way, for example. A refresh request signal from the mode selector 26 is detected by the timing generator 28. The column sense amplifier 16 is controlled by the output signal of the timing generator 28, to block the transfer of the output signal of the column sense amplifier 16 to the input output buffer 30. The selection of the row address signal Add or the refresh row address signal RRA is required only for the access of a memory cell connected to the bit line which is also connected to a memory cell to be refreshed. The refresh is made only one time for a much longer time than the access time to the memory cell. For the other time than the refresh time, the memory operation is performed as in the conventional dynamic RAM. Thus, when the data stored in the memory cell is to be refreshed, if the memory cell on the bit line connected to the former is not accessed, it is sufficient to merely make the refreshing. Neither outputting data to exterior units nor fetching an address is required for the refresh. The refreshing operation is at high speed. As described above, in this embodiment, the refresh is performed during the write or the read period of data to and from the memory cell. Therefore, users can use the dynamic RAM of this embodiment with no concern for the refresh timing. In practical use, the dynamic RAM of this embodiment can be handled as if it is a static RAM. Additionally, this RAM can be fabricated with substantially the same chip area as that of the conventional RAM. An integration density of the memory cells of this dynamic RAM, when fabricated, is approximately four times that of the usual static RAM. In the above mentioned embodiment, the refresh follows the normal memory operation, i.e. the read operation or the write operation. Alternatively, this may be performed before the normal operation by making use of the operation delay time of the row address buffer 21 and the column address buffer 24. There is a situation that at the start of the refresh, the address signal Add changes and the normal operation must be performed. In such a situation, the refresh is followed by the normal operation in this embodiment. Fig. 7 shows another embodiment of a dynamic RAM according to the present invention. When the parasitic capacitor Ca and Cb of the bit line pairs In this embodiment, if the bit lines are divided into n segments, the bit line capacitor Ca and Cb are 1 n in capacitance, and the refresh operation is speeded up about n times. The charge for the whole bit line capacitor CB Ca Cb is 1 n because it is given by CB x VDD where VDD is a power voltage . The refresh time is also 1 n.