# Sugar simulating compounds.

## Abstract
An edible material or beverage containing at least one non nutritive sweetening agent and a sugar simulating amount of 2 ethyl 5 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanone and or its tautomeric isomer 5 ethyl 2 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanone.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An edible material or beverage containing at least one nonnutritive sweetening agent and a sugar simulating amount of 2 ethyl 5 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanone and or its tautomeric isomer 5 ethyl 2 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanone. 2. A method of simulating the taste of sugar, which comprises the addition of a sugar simulating amount of 2 ethyl 5 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanone and or its isomer S ethyl 2 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 t2H furanone to materials containing non nutritive sweetening agents. 3. A foodstuff or beverage according to claim 1 containing 0.01 2 ppm by weight of 2 ethyl S methyl 4 hydroxy 3 t2H furanone and or its isomer 5 ethyl 2 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2HJ furanone and having the same sugarlike taste as the foodstuff or beverage sweetened with sugar instead of non.nutritive sweeteners. 4. An edible material or beverage according to claim 1 in which the non nutritive sweetening agent is Acesulfame K registered trademark . 5. An edible material or beverage according to claim 1 in which the non nutritive sweetening agent is Aspartame registered trademark . 6. An edible material or beverage according to claim 1 in which the non nutritive sweetening agent is Cyclamate registered trademark . 7. An edible material or beverage according to claim 1 in which the non nutritive sweetening agent is Saccharin registered trademark . 8. An edible material or beverage according to claim 1 in which the non nutritive sweetening agent is a chlorinated sucrose. 9. An edible material or beverage according to claim 1 in which the non nutritive sweetening agent is a chlorinated galactosucrose. 10. The use of a combination of at least one non nutritive sweetening agent and 2 ethyl 5 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanone and or its tautomeric isomer 5 ethyl 2 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanone for sweetening materials. 11. A sweetening composition comprising a combination of at least one non nutritive sweetening agent and 2 ethyl 5 metFyl ss h,dror 3 2H furanone and or its tautomeric isomer 5 ethyl 2 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanone.

## Description
Title Sugar simulating compounds The present invention relates in one of its embodiments to edible materials and beverages containing non nutritive sweeteners. The importance of sweetness is one of the major factors in the palatability of foodstuffs and is well recognized and undisputed among modern nutritionists. Previously sweetness was promoted almost exclusively by natural sugars. In recent years, however, the rapid growth in the consumption of low calorie soft drinks and dietetic food in general, resulted in a great deal of studies directed at finding new non nutritive sweeteners or non nutritive sweetness enhancers to diminish the amount of natural nutritive sweeteners in food, while maintaining the same total sweetness, e.g. as disclosed in United States PatentSpecification No. 4,288,464 for maltol as a sweetness enhancer.It is well known, however, that, for instance, beverages such as coffee, tea, fruit juices, carbonated soft drinks, and like, containing high intensity non nutritive sweeteners, are generally less well accepted than those containing carbohydrate sweeteners, because they lack the typical impression of natural sugar. It is one of the objects of the present invention to provide a method for simulating the presence of substantial amounts of carbohydrate sweeteners in edible materials and beverages in which the carbohydrate sweetener has been substantially or even fully replaced by a quantity of a high intensity non nutritive sweetener, equivalent in sweetness to the carbohydrate replaced. It has now been found that 2 ethyl 5 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanone and its tautomeric isomer 5 ethyl 2 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2R furanone exhibit a sugar simulating effect when used in conjunction with one or more high intensity non nutritive sweeteners. Thus the addition of 2 ethyl 5 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanone and or its isomer 5 ethyl 2 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanone to an edible material or a beverage sweetened with such a high intensity sweetener or mixtures thereof results in an impression of the edible material or beverage being sweetened with a carbohydrate sweetener without its flavor being affected to any great extent. 2 Ethyl 5 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2 E furanone and its tautomeric isomer 5 ethyl 2 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanone are known flavoring in gredients which have found an increasing acceptance after their discovery and isolation from soy sauce by Nunomura et al. Agric. Biol.Chem. 40 1976 491 and 44 1980 339. These furanones have been widely utilized for the reconstitution of good quality flavors. Their use as flavoring agents has been described in, for example, German Offenlegungsschrift 1,915,788 for bakery products, Dutch Patent Publication 70,04150 for meat flavors and Swiss Patent 549,958 for tobacco flavoring. According to the preferred embodiment of the present invention, the sugar simulating effect can be achieved by the addition of between 0,01 2 ppm by weight of 2 ethyl 5 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanone and or its isomer 5 ethyl 2 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 H furanone to an edible material or a beverage containing a non nutritive high intensity sweetener. The range of proportions indicated above is not to be interpreted restrictively and lower or higher proportions can be used. It is to be understood, however, that beyond a certain upper limit 2 ethyl 5 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanone and or its isomer 5 ethyl 2 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2B furanone due to their intrinsic flavoring properties start to develop a flavour modifying effect. It is therefore a matter of appreciation for the flavorist to use 2 ethyl 5 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2B furanone and or its isomer 5 ethyl 2 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanone in such a way and proportion as will suit the specific sweetening and or flavoring effects which are desired to be achieved. 2 Ethyl 5 methyl 4 hydroxy 2H furanone and its tautomeric isomer 5 ethyl 2 methyl 4 hydroxy 3t2H furanone can be prepared, for example, as described in British patent 1,601,933. In their pure state 2 ethyl 5 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H3 furanone and its isomer 5 ethyl 2methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanone are liquids, which can be utilized as such or more conveniently in solutions. 2 Ethyl 5 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanone and its isomer 5 ethyl 2 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanone can than be added to the materials to which it is desired to confer a sugar simulating effect in the course of any of the steps of their manufacture. Examples of high intensity non nutritive sweeteners which, according to the present invention, can be combined with 2 ethyl 5 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanone and or its tautomeric isomer 5 ethyl 2 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanone are Acesulfame K registered trademz which is the potassium salt of 6 methyl 1,2,3 oxathiazine 4 3H one 2,2 dioxide, Aspartame registered trademark , which is N L a aspartyl G phengazamine methyl ester, Cyclamate registered trademark , which is sodium cyclohexylsulfamate, Saccharin registered trademark , which is t2 weiso thiazol 3 2H one 1,1 dioxide,chlorinated sucroses, chlorinated galactosucroses, and combinations thereof. This invention can be practised in any edible material or beverage in which a sweet taste is desirable or conventional. Nonrestrictive examples are cakes, pastry, biscuits and other sweet bakery products, chocolate, bonbons and other confectionery, jams, fruit compotes, desserts, sherbets, icecream, milk shakes, yoghurt, coffee, tea, cocoa, fruit juices, carbonated soft drinks and the like.The invention can also be practised in medicinal or pharmaceutical, solid or liquid compositions in which a sweet taste is desirable, or in the coating of pills, tablets and the like. The present invention is equally important for both the industry and the consumer by improving to a great extent the consumer acceptability of low and reduced calorie sweetened products, with the consequent reduction of metabolisable carbohydrate in the diet as recommended by leading nutritionists. In an alternative embodiment, this invention relates to a sweetening composition comprising a combination of at least one nonnutritive sweetening agent and 2 ethyl 5 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H1 furanone and or its tautomeric isomer 5 ethyl 2 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanone, for example in the form of a powder, granules, pellets or a liquid composition. This form is suitable for domestic use, for example, for sweetening home brewed coffee and tea. The invention can be illustrated by the following examples which are not intended to limit the invention in any way.Example I A carbonated beverage was prepared by mixing the following ingredients to produce drink A Citric acid 2.0 g Citral, 1 in ethanol 1.0 g Sodium benzoate 0.2 g Acesulfame K registered trademark 0.5 g Carbonated water to 1 liter To the same beverage 0.0005 g of 2 ethyl S methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanone and its tautomeric isomer 5 ethyl 2 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H3furanone was added to produce drink B. The beverages thus prepared were evaluated by a panel of experienced tasters, who were requested to express their opinion as to the sugary character of the two drinks. The panel members judged the taste of drink as being much more sugarlike that that of drink A.Example II The preparation of the carbonated drinks of Example I was repeated, however, with 0.2 g Saccharin registered trademark substituted for 0.5 Acesulfame K registered trademark to produce drinksC and D, respectively. In this case the taste of drink D, containing 2 ethyl 5 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanone and its isomer S ethyl 2 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2 furanone, was judged much more sugarlike than that of drink C by the panel members.Example III A low calorie whipped dessert E was prepared from the following ingredients Whipping agent 45.45 g Skimmed milk powder 25.00 g Aspartame registered trademark 0.23 g Carrageenan 1.43 g Cream flavour 0.3 g Strawberry flavour 0.3 g Colour 10 on lactose 0.15 g The above ingredients were dry blended and then added to 250 g cold water. The mixture was whipped using an electric mixer for 3 minutes. The resulting dessert E was poured into serving dishes and refrigerated for 30 minutes before serving. To the same formulation 0.0003 g of 2 ethyl 5 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanone and its tautomeric isomer S ethyl 2 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanone was added to produce dessert F. The desserts E and F were eveluated by a panel of experienced tasters who judged dessert F as being more sugar like than dessert E.Example IV A low calorie sorbet G was prepared from the following ingredients Polydextrose 88.1 g Aspartame registered trademark 0.2 g Whipping agent 4.0 g Carrageenan 3.6 g Citric acid 2.6 g Instant starch 1.5 g Lemon flavour 0.4 g The above ingredients were dry blended and then added to 300 g cold water in an electric mixer bowl. They were mixed at low speed for 5 seconds, and at high speed for 3 minutes. The resulting mixture was poured into serving dishes and frozen for 3 hours before serving. To the same formulation 0.0002 g of 2 ethyl 5 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanone and its tautomeric isomer 5 ethyl 2 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2s furanone was added to produce sorbet H. The sorbets G and H were evaluated by a panel of experienced tasters who judged sorbet H to be more sugarlike than sorbet G.Example V Normal brewed English tea with milk was sweetened with 0.038 Acesulfame K registered trademark , equivalent to 5 sugar, to prepare sample J. Sample K was prepared by adding 0.000005 0.05 ppm of 2 ethyl 5 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanone and its tautomeric isomer 5 ethyl 2 methyl 4 hydroxy 3 2H furanone to sample J. A panel of twenty experienced tasters seven normally taking sugar in tea, the remainder not were asked to evaluate samples J andK in order to determine which sample was more sugarlike. They determined statistically that sample K was more sugarlike than sample J.