# SEMICONDUCTOR MEMORY DEVICE

## Claims
Halbleiterspeicheranordnung, mit

## Description
The present invention relates to a semiconductor memory device, more particularly to a semiconductor memory device having bit line pairs, such as a one transistor one capacitor dynamic memory, wherein a reduction in the amount of the read charges due to the capacitance between bit lines is prevented by a special arrangement of the bit lines. The dimensions of the memory cells included in semiconductor memory devices are becoming smaller every year. Along with this, the distance between bit lines has also become smaller. For this reason, the parasitic capacitance between bit lines has become larger. As a result, the noise due to changes in potential of an adjacent bit line has come to have an appreciable effect on the potential of a selected bit line, leading to the phenomena of read errors in data. US A 3 942 164 discloses a semiconductor memory device according to the preamble of accompanying claim 1. This device is a static type device employing binary circuits such as flip flops as the memory cells. The bit lines are intersected to reduce capacitive coupling and thereby reduce large transient currents appearing on the bit lines. According to the present invention, there is provided a semiconductor memory device comprising a semiconductor memory device comprising An embodiment of the present invention can provide a dynamic semiconductor memory device having bit line pairs wherein the noise due to changes in potential of an adjacent bit line pair is reduce and, thereby, read errors are prevented. Reference is made, by way of example, to the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is a circuit diagram showing an arrangement of bit line pairs in a conventional one transistor one capacitor dynamic memory. In Fig. 1, a plurality of bit line pairs BL0, As explained above, when the distance between bit lines becomes narrower, the parasitic capacitance between the bit lines has an appreciable effect on a data read operation. In the figure, the capacitance C1 between the bit lines BL1 and Figures 2A and 2B are waveform diagrams for explaining the memory operation of the circuit of Fig. 1 in the case where the capacitance C1 and C2 between bit lines is ignored. Figure 2A is a graph in the case of storage of a charge in the capacitor C in a memory cell connected between the bit line BL1 and word line WL0. In this case, if the word line WL0 is selected and raised to a level higher than the power supply voltage V Figure 2B is a graph for explaining the memory operation in the case where no charge is stored in the above mentioned capacitor C. In this case, selection of the word line WL0 leads to an influx of the charge of the bit line BL1 to the capacitor C, so the potential of the bit line BL1 falls by δV The above mentioned potential rise or potential drop δV where, C Figures 3A and 3B are waveform diagrams for explaining the problems in a memory operation in the circuit of Fig. 1 in the case where consideration is given to the parasitic capacitances C1, C2, and C3. Figure 3A shows the changes in potential of the bit lines BL1, In Fig. 3A, if the word line WL0 is selected, the potential of the bit Line BL1 rises by δV In equation 2 , the first member on the right indicates the effect of the potential rise of the bit line BL1 to the bit line In the above described calculations with reference to Figs. 3A and 3B, the effects of the bit line Figure 4 is a plan view showing the physical construction of part of the circuit of Fig. 1. Figure 5 is a cross sectional view of Fig. 4 along the line V V. In Fig. 4 and Fig. 5, 1 indicates a semiconductor substrate, 2 a field oxide layer of SiO₂ , 3 a first polycrystalline silicon layer to be grounded for one electrode of the capacitor C comprising the memory cell MC, 4 an insulation film of phosphosilicate glass PSG , 5 a second polycrystalline silicon layer for forming word lines WL0, WL1, WL2, ... , 6 an aluminum layer for forming bit lines BL0, As shown in Fig. 5, since the distance between bit lines 6 has become narrower, the static capacitances C1, C2 between the same become a problem. The static capacitance C3, formed between the bit lines 6 and the first polycrystalline silicon layer 3, also is a problem. Figure 6 is a circuit diagram of the arrangement of bit line pairs in a one transistor one capacitor dynamic memory according to an embodiment of the present invention. In Fig. 6, portions the same as in the prior art example of Fig. 1 are given the same reference characters. The difference with Fig. 1 is that the two bit lines forming each of every other bit line pairs BL1a, Figures 7A and 7B are waveform diagrams for explaining the memory operation of the circuit of Fig. 6. Figure 7A shows the changes in potential of the bit lines BL1a, If the word line WL0 is selected, the potential of the bit line BL2a is increased by the rise δV On the other hand, the potential rise δV In equation 6 , the first member on the right indicates the effect of the potential rise of the bit line BL1a on the bit line due to the potential rise of the bit line BL1a via the static capacitance of 1 2 C1 between the bit lines BL1a and In equation 7 , if the approximation that C1 C2 C3 and δV Similarly, the potential difference between the bit lines BL2a and Assume that C1 C2 C3 and δV Equation 12 has the same result as equation 8 . The above description was made for the case where the word line WL0 is selected. A similar discussion also applies when the word line WL1 or the other word lines are selected. In the above description of the embodiment, especially for the calculation of the potential difference between the bit lines BL1a and In equation 11 , however, if the above mentioned assumption δV Other embodiments which can solve this problem in the circuit of Fig. 6 are explained below. Figure 8 is a circuit diagram showing the arrangement of bit line pairs in a one transistor one capacitor dynamic memory according to another embodiment of the present invention. Figure 8 differs from Fig. 6 in that the lines of the bit line pairs BL0b, In equation 13 , δV In the potential difference between the potential rises of BL1b and The potential difference between the bit lines, for example, BL2b and In equation 17 , the first member is derived due to the influx of the charge from the memory cell MC2 to the bit lines BL2b the second member on the right indicates the potential rise of the bit line BL2b due to the potential rise of the bit line BL3b at the lower half portion in the illustrated top half TH via the capacitance of 1 4 C2, because the bit line BL2b is adjacent to the bit line BL3b at that lower half portion and the third member on the right indicates the effect of the potential rise of the bit line BL1b on the bit line BL2b at the lower half portion in the bottom half BH via the capacitance of 1 4 C2, because the bit line BL2b is adjacent to the bit line BL1b at the lower half portion in the bottom half BH. Similarly, in equation 18 , the first member indicates the effect of the potential rise of the bit line BL3b at the lower half portion in the top half TH the second member indicates the effect of the potential rise of the bit line BL1b at the upper half portion in the bottom half BH and the third member indicates the effect of the potential rise of the bit line BL3b at the lower half portion in the bottom half BH. As will be seen from equation 19 , the effects of the potential rise of the bit lines BL1b and BL3b in equation 17 are cancelled so that only the factor remains in equation 19 . This factor is much smaller even when the potential rise δV Figure 9 shows a still further embodiment of the present invention. The difference between Fig. 8 and Fig. 9 is that, in Fig. 9, the lines of each of the bit line pairs BL0b, By this construction, the potential difference between, for example, bit lines BL1b and Similarly, the potential difference between, for example, bit lines BL2c and Thus, in the embodiment shown in Fig. 9, the effects of the potential rises of the adjacent bit line pairs are cancelled, as can be seen from equations 22 and 25 . At the intersection portion of each two bit lines, one bit line can be formed by the aluminum layer of the bit line itself, and the other bit line can be made by an impurity diffused layer. The physical structure of the intersection portion is illustrated as an example in Figs. 10 and 11. Figure 10 is a plan view of the physical construction of part of the circuit of Fig. 6, and Fig. 11 is a cross sectional view taken along line XI XI of Fig. 10. In Fig. 10, the bit lines BL1a and From the foregoing description, it will be apparent that, according to the present invention, in a semiconductor memory device having a plurality of bit line pairs, intersecting the bit lines in bit line pairs at appropriate portions can reduce the voltage drop between the bit lines in the bit line pairs arising from the electrostatic capacitance between them, so that read errors can be prevented.