# Improvements in telescopic column structures for excavating trenches, foundations and the like.

## Abstract
The columns 15 are sustained and guided by tractors or other suitable means and terminally carrying the excavation tools 21 , such improvements including in combination and coordination a support and positioning auxiliary platform 16 which is at least partially mobile, a support plate 27 which is at least partially rotating and sustained by said auxiliary platform 16 and supporting the said telescopic column there being included means 18 for generating the frontal oscillation of the auxiliary platform 16 and means 32 for generating the partial rotation of the said support plate 27 .

## Claims
CLAleS 1 Improvements in telescopic columns for digging . foundations, columns sustained and guided by trac . tors or other suitable means carring at the end thereof the excavation tools, characterised by including in combination and coordination an auxiliary support and positioning platform which is at least frontaliy mobile, a support plate, which is at least partially rota ting, sustained by said auxiliary platform and su staining the said telescopic column, there being advantageously provided means for ge nerating the frontal oscillation of the auxiliary platform and means for generating the at least par tial rotation of the said support plate. 2 Improvements in telescopic columns as in claim i, characterised by the fact that the auxiliary platform 16 is hingedly sustained by a strut 17 , there being a tie means 19 and means of thrust and equilibrium 18 cooperating with said strut 17 for positioning and levelling the said auxiliary platform 16 . 3 Improvements in telescopic columns as in claims1 and 2, characterised by the fact that the strut means 17 are placed at an extremity of the auxi liary platform 16 , the means of thrust and equi . .librium 18 being formed of a jack 18 acting in . an at least intermediate position of said auxiliary. platform 16 4 Improvements in telescopic columns as in claim .1 and any of the preceding claims, characterised bythe fact that the telescopic column 15 is positioned displaced on the platform 16 in relation to the attachment of said platform 16 to the strut means 17 . 5 Improvement in telescopic columns as in claim 1. and any of the preceding claims, characterised by the fact that the tie means 19 cooperate with the auxiliary platform 16 in equilibrium with res means aspect to thrust and equilibrium 18 entering into action for the temporary locking in the required po position. 6 Improvements in telescopic columns as in claim . 1 I and any of the preceding claims, characterised by the fact that the auxiliary platform 16 sustains the telescopic column 15 by means of a plate 27 at least partially rotating and advantageously positionable at any angle. 7 Improvements in telescopic columns as in claim . .l and any of the preceding claim, characterised by the fact that th telescopic column 15 extends on. both sides of the auxiliary platform 16 . Improvements in telescopic columns as in claim . 1 and any of the preceding claims up and including . claim 6. characterised by the fact that the telescov plc column 15 extends substantially only in the lower side of the auxiliary platform 16 . 6 e Telescopic columns for the excavation of founda lions termina3 iN and inferiorly equiped with tools eventually mounted on self propelled or similar means of transport, positioning and drive, characterised by adopt ng one or more of the improvements of the preceding claims. 10 1C Improvements in telescopic colums as in claim . 1 1 and any of the preceding claims and telescopic columns adopting such improvements as described and illustrated and for the conceived purposes.

## Description
Description of the invention entitled Improvements in Telescopic Columns for making foun dations and Columns for foundations thus improved In the name of Casagrande u. S.p.A. of Fontanafredda PN Filed on under no The present invention relates to improvements in telescopic columns Cor excavating trenches and foundations, as well telescopic columns for making tren chews and foundations adopting such improvements. The improvements relate to telescopic columns which serve to sustain, guide and drive buckets, d drills driils and other toois normally used in excavating trenches, foundations and sim lar. in the field of digging linear trenches, foundations and perforations by columns, telescopic colu mns are used which consent digging at a great depth by placing the support means on an easily accessable surface area. .It is also known that the telescopic co lumns are equi .ped with buchets, drills or similar means for the .purpose of executing the required excavation. It is also known, and the name itself hints at that, that the telescopic columns are advantageously formed of a plurality of columns insertable within each other and made to extend for use according to the depth of the job. There are also various types of known equipments whichare terminally provided on the columns and al so known are the driving and movementation system of these equipments. The present system is directed to the system of installing, anchorage and displacement of the co columns. The present invention improves the manoeuvrabili .ty of the telescopic columns expanding thus their .field of utility... It is a scope of the invention to permit a simpler and more precise drive control of the known means. It is also a scope of the present invention to consent complete manoeuvrability and autonomy. Another scope of the present invention is the pos sibility of actuating mini telescopic columns for excavation work in tunnels or in uncomfortable work .sits having scarce useful overhead space. One further scope of the invention is to permit the digging and executing of inclined excavations One other scope is to permit the positioning of the telescopic columns in such a way as to execute excavations at an angle without difficulties nor com plicabed auxiliary maneouvres of the support means. These scopes as well as other scopes and various advantages are achieved by the present invention. The invention is summed up by providing an auxi liary platform, substantially horizontal but incl nable at will at least inothe plane in front of the support means, which in turn sustains a telescopic column by means of plate which is advantageously at least partially rotating. These improvements permit the elimination of the traditional grider columns and also simplify the installation on the excavator tractor and lead to an improvement of the general and particular efficien cy. The inventionrelates to improvements in telescopic columns for foundations, columns which are sustained .and guided by a tractor or other suitable means and which carry terminally thereof the excavating and work means, characterised by the fact of including .in mutual combination and coordination . an auxiliary support and positioning platform, at least frontally mobile an at least partially rotating support plate susta ined by said auxiliary platform and sustaining the said telescopic column. There being advantageously provided means of act. .tuating the frontal oscillation of the auxiliary .platform, and there being advantagoeusly provided means of actuating the at least partial rotation of the said support plate. The invention also refers to telescopic columns for foundations adopting such improvements.We now look into the invention with the aid of the attached tables given by way of example only in hich .Fig. 1 illustrates a crawler tractor carrying a te . telescopic column according to the invention Fig. 2 i.4lustrates an alternative embodiment of theinvention for tunnels or work stations with little overhead space Fig. 3 shows the invention in an enlarged scale Fig. 4 shows the invention as illustrated in fig. 3 according to the sectional view AA Fig. 5 shows a vertical section of the invention.With reference to the drawings, similar parts or. .parts with simiiar functions carry similar referen ce numbers. In the drawings, 10 generecally indicates the machine for excavating the foundation 11 stationed on the terrain 12 and provided in the example with crawler track 13 14 is the body of the machine which contains the drive organs 15 is the telescopic co lumn which is axially displaceable forward or back ward until it reaches the position 115, and lateral ly displaceable until it at least reaches the angu lar position 215 and 315 fig 4 separated by at least 90 i6 is the platform sustained by the struts 17 and braces 19 or by the brace and frontally positioned by at least one jack IS 17 are the plat form support struts which are anchored at 129 to the machine s body 14 and at 29 to the platform 16 .18 is at least one jack which serves to horizontal I position said platform 16 19 are the braces whichcounteract the struts 17 with which they cooperate at 29 to sustain the platform 16 20 is the cable which drives the elements of the telescopic column . downward the said cable runs on pulley 30 and then.on pulley 31 both provided on the platform 16 and. then on pulley 25 provided on the front of the cen .tral element 228 of the telescopic comumn 15 to eventually rise and terminate at 24 in the external fixed body of the telescopic column 21 is a bucket of a known type integrally connected to base 26 provided in the frontal body of the central element 328 theactuation of the bucket 21 is done, for instance, by means of the hydraulic conduits 35 enclosed by 23 22 is the tie bar or bars which connects the position 29 of the plattform 16 with the top of the fixed body of the column 15 in order to create a solid articulation system 23 is the drum for winding thetubes which serves to collect the conduits 35 which actuate the bucket 21, such a drum is connected in a known way to the operating plant which pilots the oil as provided in the machine s body 14 24 is tlle anchorage, provided in the external fixed body of the loading cable 20 25 is the transmission pulley provided in the frontal body of the internal central element 328 of the telescopic column 15 26 is the .base on which are provided the equipment 21, said . base is situated in the frontal body of the central. internal element 328 of the telescopic column 15 27 is the support plate which is at least partially rotating and whose rotation ran be obtained either by means of a motor or a jack 32 as shown in the example the support plate 27 is sustained and guise ded by the platform 16 28, 128, 228, 328 are the various components forming the telescopic column 15 the element 28 of the example being sliding on the external fixed body of the column 15 and the element 328 being central while the element 128 and 228 be ing intermediate 29 are the attachment means of the platform 16 wherein at least the struts 17 are an chored 30 is the posterior pulley on which runs the cable 32 is, in the example, the jack which causes the partiai rotation of the support plate 27 33 is the attachment means of the jack 32 to the support plate 35 are the actuation conduits, which are known, of the tools 21. We now look into the way the invention works. To raise the telescopic columns and place it in working position it is advantageously eased on the ground fig. 1, position 415 then hooked at 219 whereby the braces 19 are connected at 29. The cable 20 is also connected. By acting on the organ connected by the braces 19, the telescopic column is raised to position 15 or 115 of fig. 1. By further acting on jack 18, the proper positio ning of the column and the platform 16 is achieved.. Then the feed conduits of the fluid under pressu re is connected if not already done to the winding drum 23. Consequently the tool 21 is installed on the plate 26 and connected to the pressurized fluid fe .ed conduit as the latter is withdrawn from the drum 23.By acting in a known manner on the organ provided within the machine 14, the cable 20 is relaxed untie the column elements descend lowering thus the tools . The digging tools 21 are then actuated in the usual manner. To raise the tools, the organ that withdraws the cable 20 is actuated in the usual way which causes the withdrawal of the column elements 28. In order to longitudinally withdraw the equipment it is sufficient to relax the cable 19 and then act on the jack 18 to move the telescopic column 15 in to the required vertical position. To advance the excavation laterally it is suffi cient to drive the machine to the side by means of the craweler tracks 3 or the wheels . In the case where an excavation at an angle ic required, it is sufficient to execute the last part. with the telescopic column in position 215, and then, by means of jack 32, move into position 315 to imme diately obtain the required angle. Preferential embodiments have been described hereinabove but alternative embodiments are possible, it is thus possible to change the proportions and dimen sions it is possible to add or remove parts it is possible to mount on base 26 any type of equipment it is possible to construct a telescopic column of an lenght and number of elements etc. These and other alternative embodiments are all possible for a man skilled in the art without having to go beyond the ambit of the inventive concept.