# Modified zsm 5 catalyst, and method of preparation and use thereof.

## Abstract
Modified ZSM 5 catalyst is prepared by controlled aging, preferably in a moving bed catalytic cracking unit. The modified catalyst exhibits significant olefin isomerization activity and reduced paraffin cracking activity.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A crystalline material having the crystal structure ofZSM 5 which, when in contact with long chain relatively low octane olefins, at hydrocarbon conversion conditions sufficient to convert at least a portion of the olefins, exhibits as a primary conversion mechanism the isomerization of the long chain olefins to higher octane number materials. 2. Crystalline material of Claim 1 characterized in that addition of catalytically effective amounts of the ZSM 5 to the inventory of a catalytic cracking unit operating in the absence of added hydrogen, results in a 2.0 increase in research clear octane number for every one liquid voltmne percent loss of C5 gasoline yield. 3. Crystalline material of Claim l characterized in that theZSM 5 has been repeatedly regenerated in a moving bed catalyst regeneration zone. 4. Crystalline material of any of Claims 1 to 3 in an amorphous support which also contains 1 to 30 wt t large pore zeolite. 5. Crystalline material of any of Claims 1 to 4 in an amorphous support wherein the ZSM 5 comprises 1 to 10 wt t of the total weight thereof. 6. Crystalline material of any of Claims 1 to 4 wherein theZSM 5 comprises 10 to 100 wt t ZSM 5 in an amorphous binder. 7. Crystalline material of any of Claims 1 to 3 wherein theZSM 5 comprises about 20 to 50 wt ZSM 5 and 80 to 50 wt amorphous binder. 8. In a catalytic cracking process operating in the absence of additional hydrogen, wherein hydrocarbon feedstock is contacted with a catalyst and the feedstock is cracked to lighter products, the improvement comprising adding a crystalline material having the crystal structure of ZSM 5 and having a reduced paraffin cracking activity, and exhibiting substantial olefin isomerization activity, as compared to conventional ZSM 5 catalyst. 9. Modified ZSM 5 catalyst characterized by its method of preparation comprising a contacting hydrocarbons with ZSMb5 catalyst initially having substantial initial paraffin cracking activity in a catalytic cracking zone to produce coked catalyst containing minor amounts of hydrocarbon and coke b regenerating the coked catalyst in catalyst regeneration zone by the steps comprising i burning a majority of the hydrmcarbon from the catalyst, while leaving a majority of the coke on the catalyst ii removing most of the products of hydrocarbon combustion from contact with the catalyst and subsequently iii burning coke from the catalyst to produce a regenerated catalyst. c repeating steps a and b until the initial paraffin cracking ability of the ZSMF5 catalyst has been reduced by at least 500. 10. A process for modifying ZSM 5 catalyst comprising a adding ZSM 5 catalyst to a moving bed catalytic cracking unit containing a moving bed catalyst regeneration zone and b operating the moving bed catalytic cracking unit for at least one month to produce a modified ZSM 5 catalyst with reduced paraffin cracking activity, while exhibiting olefin isomerization activity. 11. A process for catalytically cracking a hydrocarbon feedstock in a catalytic cracking unit to a product comprising gasoline using a cracking catalyst comprising a conventional catalytic cracking catalyst and a zeolite additive having aConstraint Index between l and 12 and a silica to alumina ratio greater than 10, characterized by steaming said zeolite at a temperature of 200 to 870 C cracking characteristics Ofa EMI42.1 tb SEP for SEP a SEP time SEP sufficientzmodify SEP the tb th SEP c SEP ca1 SEP Cs.f4f SEP ZP SEP the tb dincrease SEP the SEP Ïctane SEP hUEter SEP of the tb gasoline without substantially decreasing the gasoline plus distillate yield. 12. The process of Claim 11, wherein the zeolite additive has the crystal structure of ZSM 5, ZSM ll, ZSM l2, ZSM 23, SZM 35, ZSt438, ZSM 48 and TMA Offretite. 13. The process of Claim 11, wherein the zeolite has the crystal structure of ZSM 5. 14. The process of any of Claims 11 to 13, wherein the zeolite contains essentially no alumina. 15. The process of any of Claims 11 to 14, wherein the zeolite is treated with steam at 575 77O0C in a regenerator associated with the cracking unit. 16. The process of any of Claims ll to 14, wherein the zeolite additive is exposed to steam prior to being added to the cracking unit. 17. The process of any of Claims 11 to 16, wherein the zeolite additive comprises from 0.01 to 10 wt of the total cracking catalyst. 18. The process of Claim 16, wherein the zeolite is treated with steam at a pressure of 101 kPa to 412 kPa for at least 5 hours.

## Description
MODIFIED ZSM 5 CATALYST, AND METHOD OF PREPARATION AND USE THEREOF The invention relates to an improved ZSM 5 zeolite, its method of preparation, and use of the zeolite in hydrocarbon conversion processes. Zeolitic materials, both natural and synthetic, have been demonstrated in the past to have catalytic properties for various types of hydrocarbon conversions. Certain zeolites are ordered, porous crystalline aluminosilicates having a definite crystalline structure within which there are a large nunber of smaller cavities which may be interconnected by still smaller channels. These materials are known as molecular sieves. Many methods have been developed for preparing a variety of synthetic aluminosilicates. These aluminosilicates have come to be designated by letter or other symbol, e.g., Zeolite A U.S. Patent No.2,882,243 , Zeolite X U.S. Patent No. 2,882,244 , Zeolite Y U.S. Patent No. 3,130,007 , and ZSM 5 U.S. Patent No. 3,702,886 . ZSM S is a particularly interesting zeolite, and much work with ZSM 5 has been reported in the patent literature on adding an intermediate pore size zeolite, e.g., 5, to the conventional cracking catalyst. Use of large pore and small pore crystalline materials in catalytic cracking is known. Quite a lot of work has been done adding ZSM 5, and related intermediate pore size zeolites, to conventional large pore cracking catalyst. In U.S. Patent No. 3,758,403, from 2.05 to 10t TSM 5 catalyst was added to a conventional cracking catalyst containing 10 REY, the remainder being Georgia clay. Examples were given showing use of 1.S, 2.5, 5 and 10 wt ZSM 5 added to the conventional cracking catalyst. The ZSM 5 catalyst resulted in increased product ion of dry gas, some loss of gasoline yield, and an increase in octane number. lSM S catalyst, especially, virgin catalyst, has exceedingly high activity. Researchers have attempted to take advantage of the super activity of fresh ZSM S catalysts by adding only small amounts of it to FCC catalyst. Typical of such work is U.S. Patent No.4,309,280 which taught adding very small amounts of powdered neatZSM 5 catalyst, characterized by a particle size less than 5 microns. This patent taught that adding as little as 0.25 wt 8 ZSM 5 powder to the circulating catalyst inventory in an FCC unit would increase dry gas production by 508 from 3.9 wt S dry gas to 6.0 seeExample 6 in Table 2 . To summarize the state of the art regards addition of DSM 5 to cracking catalyst, the following general statements can be made. ZSM S is exceedingly active, and addition of even small amounts results in greatly augmented production of dry gas, at the expense of gasoline yield. So far as is known to applicants, no use has been made on a commercial or long term scale of ZSM 5 in moving bed catalytic cracking processes. Experimental work has shown that ZSM 5 catalyst, in FCC processes, loses activity relatively quickly. ZSM 5 is disproportionately active, compared to conventional FCC catalyst, from startup up to perhaps as much as a week of operation. After more than about a week of operation in an FCC unit, and after being subjected to repeated fluidized bed regenerations, in laboratory or in commercial units, the ZSM 5 activity becomes much harder to find. These factors, high initial activity of ZSM 5, coupled with rapid deactivation of ZSM 5, discouraged researchers from adding ZSM 5 to moving bed catalytic cracking units. The high startup activity ofZSM 5 results in voluminous production of light gases, which production is difficult to accommodate in downstream processing units designed to handle the product mix obtained from conventional catalyst. The rapid deactivation of ZSM 5 meant that its effect would soon be lost, requiring very expensive turnover of catalyst in the unit. The problem of accommodating the initial high activity of ZSM 5 catalyst, has been solved, and is discussed hereafter. The expected rapid catalyst deactivation, based on projections of work using ZSM 5 catalyst in FCC units, did not occur in TCC units. The properties of the ZSM 5 catalyst changed after repeated regenerations in a moving bed cracking unit. It was expected that the catalyst would lose activity. It did, but not nearly to the same extent as it did in conventional FCC catalyst regenerations. Surprisingly, the 25M 5 catalyst changed during use, and behaved differently than it ever had before. It did not just get older, it got better. As the feeds are substantially the same in FCC and TCC, it is postulated that the different reaction regeneration methods used in these processes might be the cause of the change in the ZSM S catalyst. There is a difference in the severity and frequency of catalyst regeneration in TCC and FCC units. FCC catalyst is frequently regenerated at temperatures of 650 7320C 1200 13500F in a fluidized bed regenerator. Any hydrogen, or hydrocarbon, present on the catalyst burns to produce water. The water, or steam, deactivates the ZSM S catalyst fairly rapidly. In contrast, in Thermofor catalytic cracking regeneration, the catalyst is regenerated in a moving bed. Hydrogen and hydrocarbon tend to be burned off the catalyst and swept away from it before coke on the catalyst is burned, and before very high temperatures necessary to burn off coke are reached. In TCC regeneration the catalyst does not see water vapor for a very long time, and when it does see water vapor the catalyst is not very hot so the steaming deactivation effect is not so severe as in FCC. Even making adjustments for the severity and frequency of FCC regenerations vs. TCC regenerations, the ZSM 5 catalyst after regeneration in a TCC unit behaved differently than ZSM 5 catalyst regenerated in an FCC unit. After many days of operation in a TCC unit, the ZSM 5 catalyst became a better catalyst. Some activity was lost, but significant and unexpected amounts of catalytic activity remained. Most significant, the aged, TCC regenerated ZSM 5 catalyst retained most of the virtues expected of SM 5 catalyst increased product octane number , while shedding most of the defects of Z5M 5 catalyst loss in gasoline yield, increased dry gas make . Accordingly, the present invention provides a crystalline material having the crystal structure of ZSM 5 which, when in contact with long chain relatively low octane olefins, at hydrocarbon conversion conditions sufficient to convert at least a portion of the olefins, exhibits as a primary conversion mechanism the isomerization of the long chain olefins to higher octane number materials. In another embodiment, the present invention provides a catalytic cracking process operating in the absence of additional hydrogen, wherein hydrocarbon feedstock is contacted with a catalyst and the feedstock is cracked to lighter products, characterized by adding a crystalline material having the crystal structure of ZSM 5 and having a reduced paraffin cracking activity, and exhibiting substantial olefin isomerization activity, as compared to conventionalZSM 5 catalyst. In yet another embodiment, the present invention provides modified ZSM 5 catalyst characterized by its method of preparation comprising contacting hydrocarbons with ZSM 5 catalyst initially having substantial initial paraffin cracking activity in a catalytic cracking zone to produce coked catalyst containing minor amounts of hydrocarbon and coke regenerating the coked catalyst in catalyst regeneration zone by the steps comprising burning a majority of the hydrocarbon from the catalyst, while leaving a majority of the coke on the catalyst removing most of the products of hydrocarbon combustion from contact with the catalyst and subsequently burning coke from the catalyst to produce a regenerated catalyst repeating steps a and b until the initial paraffin cracking ability of the ZSM 5 catalyst has been reduced by at least 50 . ZSM 5 ZSM 5 is described in U.S. Patent Nos. 3,702,886 and Re 29,948. Quite a lot of work has been done on making material with a ZSM S crystal structure, but with different materials, ranging from all silica to materials containing silica and some other tetravalent metal such as boron, iron, gallium, etc. As used herein, the term 25M 5 refers to a material which has substantially the same crystal structure as shown in U.S. Patent No.3,702,886. Substitution of different cations, or changing the silica alunina, or silica boron ratio, may result in minor modificatians of the X ray diffraction patterns of the crystalline material so produced, but it is still ZSM 5, and contemplated for use herein. MONING BED CATALYTIC CRANKING This process was introduced in the early 1940 s and a detailed description thereof is not believed necessary. Briefly, the process uses a moving bed of catalytic cracking catalyst. Catalyst moves from the catalytic cracking reactor to a moving bed regenerator, and fram there back to the reactor. The oil chargestock to the process, usually without added hydrogen, is passed over the moving bed of catalyst and is catalytically cracked to lighter products. During catalytic cracking, the catalyst is deactivated by coke deposition. Coke deposition is removed from the catalyst in a moving bed regenerator associated with the moving bed cracking unit.MOVING BED REGENERATION Moving bed catalytic cracking units have moving bed catalyst regeneration units associated therewith. The catalyst is generally maintained as a downflowing moving bed of catalyst. The catalyst may be disposed as an annular bed, with radial in or out gas flow. The moving catalyst bed may have the cross section of a circle or a rectangle with gas flow from the lower portion of the catalyst bed to the upper, or the reverse. Alternatively, gas flow may be across the moving bed of catalyst, or some combination of cross flow, downflow and upflow. It is preferred to have a moving bed of catalyst going down, with gas flow generally in an upward direction. Although the catalyst from the moving bed catalytic cracking unit is usually stripped before being sent to the regenerator, there is usually a small amount of hydrocarbon, and hydrogen containing coke, contained on the catalyst. This material is relatively easy to burn, and is usually burned from the catalyst in the top S 108 of the moving bed catalyst regeneration unit. Usually more severe conditions are necessary to completely remove the more refractive, relatively hydrogen free coke that remains on the catalyst after hydrocarbons are burned off, so progressively mote severe operating conditions are experienced in the lower portions of the moving bed. These conditions may be in the form of increased temperature, increased oxygen concentration, or both. Much, if not all, of the heat required for catalyst regeneration is obtained by burning coke, and to a lesser extent, the light hydrocarbons that happen to be present on the catalyst. For start up, or to adjust temperatures in the regenerator, an air preheater may be used. It is also possible to provide various heat exchange arrangements, e.g., incoming cool gas against hot exhaust gases, using hot exhaust gases to preheat catalyst, using hot regenerated catalyst as a source of incoming cool regeneration gas, etc. The conditions used in the moving bed catalyst regeneration units are highly conventional whatever temperatures, pressures, oxygen partial pressures have been found satisfactory in the past are believed to be satisfactory for use in the present invention. In very general terms, regeneration conditions in the moving bed regeneration should be adjusted so that at least half of the H20 precursors are burned off and at least the top half of the bed, and preferably in the top 5 10 of the moving bed of catalyst in the catalyst regeneration zone. Conditions should not be severe enough to remove more than SO of the coke from the catalyst in the top one half of the moving bed regeneration zone, and preferably 60 to 909 of the coke remains on the catalyst after the H20 precursors have been burned away. Suitable regeneration conditions include temperatures of about 204 7600C 400 14000F , preferably 427 649 C 800 12000F . Regeneration pressure may range from subatmospheric to 10 atmospheres or higher if desired. Usually regeneration is conducted at pressures slightly above atmospheric. Oxygen concentration may range from about 1 2 mole oxygen to the oxygen content of air, or even higher if desired. Very high oxygen concentrations should be avoided as they lead to high catalyst regeneration temperatures which tend to deactivate the catalyst. Regeneration with 1 to 20 mole t oxygen is preferred. No way is known today to duplicate this regeneration procedure in existing FCC units, although it may be possible to modify FCC regeneration procedures to achieve this, i.e., staged regeneration where most of the water precursors are burned off at low temperatures, before coke combustion. It is believed that other methods will be developed to quickly produce ZSM S with the properties obtainable now only after weeks and months of aging and regeneration in a moving bed catalytic cracking unit.CATALYST PREPARATION BY FdiH3iERArION Modified Z5M 5 catalyst can be obtained by periodically replacing some of the circulating inventory of moving bed catalytic cracking catalyst, and processing the catalyst to recover the ZSM 5 catalyst, or simply using the extrudate catalyst with or without additional modifiers, hydrogenation dehydrogenation components for the desired catalytic use. Preferably the aged Z5M S catalyst is obtained downstream of the moving bed catalyst regeneration process, where it is essentially coke free. It is also acceptable to obtain the ZSM 5 containing catalyst downstream of the reactor and upstream of the moving bed regeneration zone. If this is done, because of the presence of relatively large amounts of coke on the catalyst in such circumstance, it will usually be necessary to subject the catalyst to conventional regeneration techniques prior to use. If TCC units are run to produce improved ZSM S catalyst, rather than improve TCC operation, some modifications to TCC operation may be permitted. Relatively high concentrations of ZSM 5 may be added, e.g., 10 to 100 , preferably 20 to 80, wt 8 ZSM 5 catalyst content may be used. The ZSM 5 catalyst added may have a smaller or larger particle size than the conventional catalyst, or a different L D. The binder, or amorphous material used to give the catalyst strength and attrition resistance may be modified to optimize end use of the catalyst in some process other than TCC.Thus the binder may be inert, or all alumina, or some other material compatible with future catalytic use of the modified ZSM 5. HYDROCARBON CONVERSION PROCESSES The ZSM 5 catalyst produced by the method of the present invention may continue to be used in moving bed catalytic cracking units with very good results. The catalyst may also be used in any other hydrocarbon conversion process using catalyst. The ZSM 5 catalyst should be especially useful in catalytic dewaxing processes designed to reduce the pour point of fuel oils, or reduce the wax content of lubricating oil base stock. The Z9M 5 catalyst of the present invention will also be very useful in hydrocracking, though in such service it is usually preferred to add a conventional hydrogenation dehydrogenation component.HYDROGENATION DEHYDROGENATION COMPONENTS Any of the conventional hydrogenation dehydrogenation components heretofore added to zeolite or amorphous catalyst can be added to the ZSM 5 catalyst produced by the method of the present invention. Suitable hydrogenation dehydrogenation components include noble and base metals. Especially preferred among the noble metals are theGroup VIII noble metals, especially platinum, palladium, and irridium. The noble metals may be present in an amount equal to 0.01 to 10 wt , preferably 0.1 to 2 wt , of the finished catalyst, on an elemental metal basis. Base metal promoters may be used instead of noble metal promoters, or in conjunction with noble metal promoters. Base metal promoters consist of one or more elements selected fran the metals ofGroup WA and the base metals of Group VIII. Especially preferred are nickel, molybdenum, tungsten, nickel moly, cobalt, and cobalt moly. Base metal promoters may be present in an amount equal to 1 to 25 wt 8, and preferably 4 to 20 wt , of the finished catalyst, calculated on an elemental metal basis.CATALYTIC PROPERTIES OF MODIFIED ZSM 5 ZSM 5 catalyst which has been modified by the process of the present invention is indistinguishable by any known X ray or elemental analysis from conventional ZSM 5 catalyst. Using the guidelines discussed hereafter, it is possible to take a 2SM 5 catalyst, and determine if it has been modified as disclosed in the present invention. Conventional ZSM S catalyst, when added to conventional FCC catalyst, usually gives about 2 octane no. gain l LV t yield loss. In contrast, modified ZSM 5 catalyst of the present invention can give an octane no. gain with little or no yield loss. Conventional ZSM num S catalyst results in significantly increased dry gas production, while this is not seen with the modified ZSM 5 catalyst of the present invention. The modified ZSM 5 catalyst behaves differently from conventional ZSM 5 catalyst. Much of the ZSM 51s cracking activity is diminished, leading to reduced gas make and increased yield, at least in FCC units, It is believed that some paraffin cracking activity is lost. Olefin isomerization activity is believed to be present. It is not exactly understood why ZsM S begins to exhibit olefin isomerization activity as it ages. The modified ZSM 5 catalyst obtained by TCC aging can be simulated, to some extent, by steaming under certain conditions prior to adding the zeolite to the catalytic reactor or the zeolite added to the catalytic reactor unit and exposed to steam as specified herein for a period of time sufficient to produce a modified selectivated catalyst. The selectivated or modified zeolite can be injected at any time during the catalytic cracking process. The zeolite can be added in the same catalyst particle as the cracking component, in a separate catalyst particle, or as a particle consisting in part or totally of ZSM 5 type crystals. The selectivated zeolite can be introduced while the cracking unit is down, or while the cracking unit is on on stream operation. Once the selectivated zeolite is added to the cracking process, the refiner can return to conventional operation or an operation at lower octane number by eliminating or decreasing the use of selectivated zeolite. Thus, the increase in octane number over the number obtainable under conventional cracking operations can be controlled by controlling the amount of selectivated zeolite. The amount of selectivated zeolite required to increase gasoline octane number is generally based on the total quantity of conventional cracking catalyst in the unit, i.e., on the circulating inventory of conventional cracking catalyst. For example, if the selectivated zeolite is first introduced via the addition of fresh makeup catalyst, the amount of zeolite constituent in the additive catalyst required would be quite high if compared to the amount of fresh makeup catalyst added. However, after a period of time of fresh makeup catalyst addition, and once the amount of zeolite is maintained at the prescribed limtits as compared to the circulating inventory of conventional cracking catalyst, the amount of said zeolite in the fresh makeup catalyst addition will be much lower than initially. The preferred zeolites are those having a constraint index of 1 12 in this invention include those having the structure of ZSM 5, ZSN ll, ZSM 12, ZSM 23, ZSM 35, ZSM 38, ZSM 48 and TMAOffretite, with ZSM 5 being particularly preferred. The zeolites used in this invention may be in the hydrogen form or they may be base exchanged or impregnated to contain a rare earth cation complement. Such rare earth cations comprise Sm, Nd,Pr, Ce and La. It is desirable to calcine the zeolite after base exchange. Catalysts containing selectivated zeolites may be prepared in various ways. The catalyst may be separately prepared in the form of particles, such as pellets or extrudates, for example, and simply mixed in the required proporations. The particle size of the individual component particles may be quite small, for example, from about 20 to about 150 microns, when intended for use in fluid bed operation, or they may be up to 1 cm for moving bed operation.Alternatively, the components may be mixed as powders and formed into pellets or extrudate, each pellet containing both components in substantially the required proporations. The selectivation process is achieved by partial pressure steaming of ZSM 5 type zeolite for a period of time so that when admixed with conventional cracking catalyst the combined catalysts convert a hydrocarbon stream to a gasoline product having a high RON O without a loss in gasoline plus distillate yield. Generally, the zeolite is reacted with steam at a partial pressure of about 0 to 45 psig, at a temperature of from about 4000 to 1600 F 2050 to 8700C , preferably 8000 to 14500 4300 to 7900C for at least 5 hours, preferably not less than 10 hours, and most preferably between 10 and 60 hours. The conditions for selectivating the zeolites may be interdependent upon one another. If steaming at the lower end of the temperature range, the steaming time should be increased. The following examples will serve to illustrate the selectivation process. Conventional Cracking Catalyst The conventional cracking catalyst used as a comparative example and to which the selectivated zeolite catalyst was added is a commercially available FCC cracking catalyst FS 30 Na 0.56 wt , RE203 2.97 wt produced by the Harshaw Filtrol Corp, and was equilibrated through use in a commercial FCC unit. The active component of FS 30 is Y zeolite. In order to improve the stability of the catalyst, the zeolite is exchanged with a rare earth element, e.g., lanthanum, cerium, etc. Any rare earth oxide may be utilized in the catalyst hence, the designation RE2O3 for rare earth oxide. Example 1 This example illustrates the improved performances of selectivated catalysts with increased steaming. An additive catalyst containing ZSM 5 was prepared by spray drying 25 wt ZSM 5 in a semi synthetic SiO2 Al2O3 clay matrix SiO2 Al2 clay 79.05 5.95 15 . The ZSM 5 containing catalyst was then steamed at 13500F 732 C and 14500F 788 C for 5, 10 and 15 hours in 45 steam 55 air, at atmospheric pressure. The steamed additive catalysts were then combined with the conventional cracking catalyst equilibrium FS 30 in proportions to yield catalysts containing 1 and 2 ZSM 5. The catalyst composite and the FS 30 catalyst comparative example were contacted with Juliet Sour Heavy Gas Oil JSHGO, properties given inTable 1 below in a fixed fluidized bed bench unit at 96O0F t515 C , 20 WHSV hr 1, and catalyst oil cat oil ratio of 3. The results of the individual runs are given below in Table 2. TABLE 1 Joliet Sour Heavy Gas Oil Chargestock 3SHGO Gravity, API 24.3 Density g cc 0.907 Aniline Pt., F C 171 77 Sulfur, wt 1.87 Nitrogen, wt 0.10 Basic Nitrogen, ppm 327 Conradson Carbon, wt 0.28 Vicosity, KV at 2100F 990C 3.6 Bromine No. 4.2 R.I. at 700F 210C 1.5080 Hydrogen, wt 12.3 Molecular Weight 358 Pour Point, F C 85 30 Parffins, wt X 23.5 Naphthenes, wt X 32.0 Aromatic, wt 44.5 CA, wt 18.9 The following abbreviations are used in the tables that follow RON 0 means Research Octane Number, with no tetraalkyl lead added. Dry Gas means light hydrocarbons which are difficult to liquids, e.g., methane and ethane. A C5 gasoline means the change in liquid volume percent, of the amount of gasoline boiling range material produced from the hydrocarbon feed. TABLE 2 788 C Steaming Equil. FS 30 FS 30 FS 30 FS 30 Catalyst FS 30 196ZSM 5 196ZSM 5 196ZSM 5 196ZSM 5Steaming Condition Tine, Hrs commat 7880C 5.0 5.0 10.0 10.0Yields Conversion, 96 Vol 68.0 64.8 64.1 67.6 66.4 c5 Gasoline, Vol 53.0 49.5 48.5 52.6 51.7 Total C4 s, Vol 15.2 14.7 15.4 15,4 15.0 Dry Gas, Wt 7.5 7.7 7.4 7.4 7.5 Coke, Wt 4.2 3.9 4.0 4.0 4.0 RON 0, C5 Gasoline 88.1 89.7 89.0 B9.2 89.2 RON 0 1.6 0.9 1.1 1.1 C5 Gasoline Yield RON 0 0.8 2.0 0.1 0.2 732 C Steaming FS 30 FS 30 FS 30 FS 30 FS 30 FS 30 Equil. 196 296 196 296 196 296 Catalyst FS 30 ZSM 5 ZSM 5 ZSM 5 ZSM 5 ZSM 5 ZSM 5Steaning Condition Time, Hrs commat 732 c 5.0 5.0 10.0 10.0 15.0 15.0Yields Conversion, Vol 68.0 69.1 66.0 68.4 67.1 68.0 65.3 C5 Gasoline, Vol 53.0 52.7 48.3 49.5 47.5 51.2 49.6 Total C4 s, Vol 15.2 16.5 16.0 18.4 18.3 16.1 15.6 Dry Gas, Wt 7.5 7.9 8.2 8.4 8.8 7.9 7.5 Coke, Wt 4.2 4.7 5.0 4.2 4.4 4.3 3.9 RON 0, C5 Gasoline 88.1 88.5 89.6 90.8 90.1 89.3 88.9 RON 0 0.4 1.5 2.7 2.0 1.2 0.8 C5 Gasoline Yield RON O 2.8 2.2 1.4 2.5 1.5 1.9 Example 2 The catalyst composite containing 1 ZSM 5 which had been steamed for 10 hours at 7890C 1450 F was tested at a number of different conversions by varying the catalyst to oil ratio cat oil at 516 C 960 F using the unit and chargestock described with respect to Example 1. Detailed run results are illustrated in Tables 3 and 4. Estimates derived by interpolating the results of these runs to a constant conversion are illustrated in Table 5. TABLE 3Catalyst Equilibrium FS 30 Run Number 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8Conversion, Vol 75.3 74.0 72.7 69.3 68.8 B7.4 68.4 65.7C5 Gasoline, 46 Vol 48.0 51.3 52.8 54.3 54.1 52.5 52.1 52.7Total C4, q6 Vol 19.7 19.4 18.4 15.8 16.0 14.9 14.8 14.0Dry Gas, Wt 12.0 9.9 8.9 7.3 6.9 7.3 7.4 7.4Coke, Wt 8.53 6.85 5.53 3.90 4.33 4.61 3.74 3.42 n C4, Vol 2.1 2.2 1.8 1.3 1.3 1.1 1.0 1.0 i C4, Vol 10.6 9.7 9.0 7.1 7.9 6.9 7.2 6.5C4 , Vol 7.0 7.5 7.7 7.3 6.8 6.9 6.6 6.5 C3, Vol 4.7 3.6 2.9 2.0 2.4 2.2 2.2 2.2C3 , Vol 9.2 7.8 7.6 6.8 5.4 6.4 7.0 6.6 Cs Gasoline Alkylate, Vol 74.9 76.9 78.4 77.9 74.6 74.7 74.7 74.5Outside i C4, Vol 7.9 7.8 8.4 9.0 6.0 8.2 8.2 8.3 RON O, C5 Gasoline 89.1 88.8 88.8 88.0 88.4 87.6 88.6 88.0 RON O, C5 Gasoline Alkylate 90.8 90.6 90.5 89.8 90.0 89.5 90.2 89.8 As used above, gasoline and alkylate means the amount of gasoline boiling range material that can be produced from the hydrocarbon feed. It includes the gasoline boiling range liquids which can be produced from the light olefins, primarily C3 and C4 olefins, produced in the cat cracker. TABLE 4Catalyst FS 30 1 ZSM 5 Run Number 1 2 3 4 5 Conversion, Vol 7S.2 73.5 69.3 67.6 66.7 C Gasoline, Vol 50.4 53.0 54.2 52.6 53.8Total C4, Vol 21.5 17.6 14.9 15.4 14.3Dry Gas, Wt 10.6 9.5 8.3 7.4 7.3Coke, Wt 6.58 6.34 3.89 4.04 3.19 n C4, Vol 2.4 1.7 1.2 1.3 1.0 i C4, Vol 10.5 8.9 6.6 7.1 6.4C4 , Vol 8.7 7.1 7.1 7.1 6.9C3, 96 Vol 3.7 3.3 2.1 2.2 2.0 C3 , 96 Vol 8.6 7.9 7.9 6.6 6.8 C5 Gasoline Alkylate, Vol 79.2 78.1 79.3 75.5 76.7 Outside i C4, Vol 9.1 8.3 10.5 8.5 9.1RON O, C5 Gasoline 91.0 0.0 89.3 89.2 88.9RON O, C5 Gasoline Alkylate 92.1 0.0 90.8 90.7 90.4 TABLE 5 Equilibrium 1 Partial Pressure FS 30 Steamed ZSM 5Conversion, Vol 72.0 72.0 C5 Gasoline, Vol 53.5 53.8Total C5 s, Vol 10.1 10.1Total C4 s, Vol 17.8 16.5Dry Gas, Wt 8.2 9.0Coke, Wt 96 5.5 5.4 n C4, Vol 1.7 1.5 i C4, Vol 8.6 7.8C4 , Vol 7.5 7.2C3, 96 Vol 2.7 2.8 c3 , Vol 6.9 8.1C5 Gasoline Alkylate, Vol 77.5 79.2Outside i C4, Vol 7.8 9.6RON O, C5 Gasoline 88.6 90.1RON 0, C5 Gasoline Alkylate 90.3 91.4 Example 3 This example illustrates the effect of long on stream times and increased exposure to partial pressure steam of a catalyst selectivated in a cracking unit regenerator on the effect of octane number and gasoline yield of the product. A sufficient quantity of the fresh 25 ZSM 5 additive catalyst prepared by the method of Example 1 was combined with equilibrium FS 30 to yield a 1 ZSM 5 catalyst composite. The composite was placed in a cyclic integrated reactor regenerator cracking unit and operated at 97O0F 5210C riser top, 6 6.5 cat oil, 2 second oil contact time while cracking Arab light gas oil properties given below in Table 6 . The regenerator conditions, where the ZSM 5 was exposed to partial pressure steam, were as follows Temperature, OF OC 1330 721 Pressure, psig kPa 45 412 Steam, 5 to 15 Samples were withdrawn periodically from the cyclic unit and evaluated along with the conventional catalyst in the same fixed fluidized bed unit under the conditions described in Example 1. TABLE 6 Specific Gravity .8774 APIC 29.8 Pour Point 850F 300C Cloud Point 120 F 49 C Viscosity KV at 100 C 5.341 Sulfur 0.76 wt X ASTM ColoR L1.0 L Less Than TABLE 7 Equil. t I 1 1 Catalyst FS 30 ZSM 5 ZSM 5 ZSM 5 ZSM 5Time On Stream 0 hrs 6 hrs 20 hrs 35 hrs 58 hrsConversion, 96Vol 68.0 67.3 67.1 67.5 67.9C5 Gasoline, 96 Vol 53.0 49.3 52.1 51.4 53.0Total C4 s, 96Vol 15.2 17.8 15.1 16.1 15.3Dry Gas, 96 Vol 7.5 7.8 7.4 7.5 7.3Coke, Wt 4.2 4.3 4.1 4.3 4.2Hydrogen Factor 93 127 143 168 175 i C4, Vol 7.2 7.8 6.2 6.6 6.7C4 , Vol 6.8 8.7 7.5 8.2 7.5 c3, Vol 2.3 2.0 1.8 1.8 1.9C3 , Vol 6.6 7.8 7.4 7.3 7.0C5 Gasoline Alkylate, Vol 75.4 77.0 77.0 77.2 77.1C5 i C4, Vol 8.1 10.9 10.7 10.9 9.7RON O, C5 Gasoline 88.1 90.6 91.0 90.4 90.1RON O, C5 Gasoline Alkylate 89.9 91.9 92.0 91.7 91.4 Example 4 In this example, the basic procedure of Example 3 was followed, with the exception that the cracking catalyst was admixed with ZSM 5 to yield a 2.5 wt ZSM 5 composite catalyst. The cracking catalyst used for this Example, designated 75 FEquilibrium, is a commercial FCC cracking catalyst produced by theHarshaw Filtrol Corp. and equilibrated in a commercial FCC unit.Catalyst 75 F compares to catalyst FS 30, described previously, in cracking function. The composite catalysts were contacted withJSHGO, charged to a cyclic cracking unit operating at 9400F 5040C riser top temperature, 4 6 Cat Oil ratio, and 2 second oil contact time. Regenerator conditions, where the 25M 5 was exposed to partial pressure steam, were 13300F 7200C , K Pa 45 psig and 5 15 steam. A sample was removed from the cyclic unit after 250 hours and evaluated along with the conventional cracking catalyst in the fixed fluidized bed unit under conditions descrxibed in Example 2. Detailed results are presented in Tables 8 and 9. Estimated results, corrected to constant conversion, are presented in Table 10. TABLE 8Catalyst 75 F Equilibriun Run Winters 1 2 3 4 5 6Cat Oil 5.0 4.0 3.0 2.5 2.0 1.75Conversion, Vol 70.0 67.3 59.5 53.9 48.1 43.8C5 Gasoline, Vol 54.8 54.5 50.4 46.7 42.4 39.1Total C4, Vol 15.3 14.2 11.6 9.5 8.4 7.4Dry Gas, Wt 7.5 6.7 5.4 4.7 4.1 3.8Coke, wt 4.8 3.7 2.8 2.6 2.1 1.9 i C4, Vol 6.6 5.8 4.3 3.5 2.6 2.2C4 , Vol 7.2 7.1 6.3 5.3 5.0 4.5C3 , Vol 6.9 6.3 5.2 4.6 4.0 3.6 C5 Gasoline Alkylate, Vol . 78.5 76.8 69.6 63.3 57.5 52.6Outside i C4, Vol 9.5 9.3 8.7 7.7 7.5 6.9RON 0, C5 Gasoline 88.5 88.4 87.6 87.7 88.2 88.0RON 0, C5 Gasoline Alkylate 90.2 90.1 89.4 89.4 89.8 89.6LFO, Wt 27.3 29.1 34.0 36.5 39.6 41.5HPO, Wt 5.0 5.8 8.2 10.7 13.2 15.1 G D, Wt 72.7 74.6 76.1 75.7 75.1 74.3 As used above, LFO means Light Fuel Oil and HFO means Heavy Fuel Oil. G D means Gasoline plus Distillates. TABLE 9Catalyst 2.5 ZSM 5 in Eq. 75 F After 250 Hrs in Cyclic Unit Run Numbers 1 2 3 4Cat Oil 5.0 4.0 3.0 2.5Conversion, Vol 63.1 56.7 49.5 47.7 c5 Gasoline, Vol 51.0 47.0 43.2 41.2Total C4, Vol 13.0 11.0 8.7 9.1Dry Gas, Wt 6.5 5.6 4.4 4.2Coke, Wt 3.6 2.9 2.2 2.0 i C4, Vol 4.6 3.4 2.5 2.3C4 , Vol 7.4 6.7 5.5 6.2C3 , Vol 6.3 5.4 4.2 3.9C5 Gasoline Alkylate, Vol 73.9 87.4 59.6 8.1 Outside i C4, Vol 10.8 10.3 8.5 9.0RON O, C5 Gasoline 89.4 89.0 90.5 88.6RON O, C5 Gasoline Alkylate 90.9 90.6 91.5 90.3LPO, Wt 32.8 36.1 39.1 40.9HPO, Wt 6.2 8.9 12.4 12.2G D, Wt 75.2 75.3 75.3 75.6 TABLE 10Catalyst 2.5 2.5 75 F ZSM 5 75 F ZSM 5Time in Cyclic Uhit, Hrs. 250 250Conversion, Vol 50.0 50.0 60.0 60.0C5 Gasoline, Vol 44.0 43.0 50.3 49.2Total C4, Vol 8.7 9.2 11.6 11.9Dry Gas, Wt 4.3 4.6 5.5 6.1Coke, Wt 2.2 2.2 3.1 3.2 i C4, Vol 2.9 2.6 4.4 4.0 C4 , Vol 5.1 6.0 6.2 7.0C3 , Vol 4.1 4.3 5.3 5.9C5 Gasoline Alkylate, Vol 59.5 60.3 69.5 70.7Outside i C4, vol 7.6 9.1 8.6 10.5RON 0, C5 Gasoline 88.0 89.4 88.1 89.3 run O, C5 Gasoline Alkylate 89.6 90.8 89.8 90.8LPO, wt 38.7 39.3 33.5 34.3HPO, Wt 6.2 8.9 12.4 12.2G D, Wt 75.6 75.4 75.6 75.2 Example 5 In this example, the procedure of Example 4 was followed with the exception that the composite catalyst was combined with ZSM 5 to yield a 3.5 wt ZSM 5 composite catalyst. Samples were withdrawn periodically from the cyclic unit and evaluated in the same manner as Example 4. Estimated results, corrected to constant conversion, are presented in Tables 11 and 12. TABIE ii Catalyst 75 F 3.5 ZSM 5Time in Cyclic Unit, Hrs 4 144 328 496 600Conversion, Vol 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0C5 Gasoline, Vol 44.0 35.3 40.1 41.1 41.1 42.5Total C4, Vol 8.7 14.5 10.6 10.2 9.0 9.0Dry Gas, Wt 4.3 7.5 5.4 5.1 5.1 4.7Coke, Wt 2.2 2.5 2.6 2.7 2.9 2.6 i C4, Vol 2 .9 3.9 3.0 3.0 2.6 2.6C4 , Vol 5.1 9.8 6.9 6.6 5.7 5.8C3 , Vol 4.1 9.5 5.7 5.4 4.9 4.5C5 Gasoline Alkylate, Vol 59.5 67.6 61.1 61.0 59.1 59.7Outside i C4, Vol 7.6 17.9 11.2 10.5 9.4 9.0RON O, C5 Gasoline 88.0 92.3 90.4 90.6 90.1 90.0RON O, C5 Gasoline Alkylate 89.6 93.1 91.7 91.8 91.4 91.2LPO, Wt Wt 38.7 40.1 39.0 40.1 39.4HPO, Wt 12.3 11.1 12.2 10.9 12.0G D, Wt 75.6 74.0 73.3 75.1 74.8 TABLE 12Catalyst 75 F 3.5 ZSM 5Tine in Cyclic Unit, Hts 4 144 328 496 600Conversion, 96 Vol 60.0 60.0 60.0 60.0 60.0 60.0 Gasoline, Vol 50.3 39.4 46.6 47.6 48.6 48.3Total C4, 96 Vol 11.6 18.5 13.4 13.3 11.8 11.8Dry Gas, Wt 5.5 10.2 7.0 6.4 6.2 6.0Coke, wt 3.1 3.6 3.7 3.4 4.0 3.6 i C4, 96 Vol 4.4 6.5 4.6 4.4 3.8 3.8 C4 , 96 Vol 6.2 10.8 7.8 8.0 7.1 7.0C3 , 96Vol 5.3 12.4 7.3 7.0 6.0 5.8 C5 Gasoline Alkylate, 96 Vol 89.5 78.0 71.8 72.6 70.5 69.8Outside i C4, 96 Vol 8.6 19.7 12.4 12.5 11.0 10.7RON O, C5 Gasoline 88.1 92.3 90.4 90.7 90.7 90.1RON O, C5 Gasoline Alkylate 89.8 93.1 91.7 91 9 91.8 91.4 , wt 33.5 33.4 33.3 33.5 34.1HPO, wt 8.3 8.2 8.5 8.0 8.5G D, Wt 96 75.6 72.4 72.9 74.1 74.1 Example 6 This example illustrates the effect of short oil to catalyst contact time on a selectivated catalyst composite. The selectivated catalyst of Example 3 and the conventional catalyst FS 30 for comparison were contacted with another chargestock properties given in Table 13 in the following manner. The catalyst was heated to about 13000F 7040C and contacted with oil in a 3.5 4.0 cat oil ratio. The catalyst and oil mixture passed through a reactor heated to 10000F 5370C while in contact for approximately 1 second. Detailed data from the runs are presented in Tables 14 and 15. Estimated results at constant conversion, based upon the data illustrated in Tables 14 and 15, are presented in Table 16. TABLE 13 Prooerties Gravity, API at 600F 160C 33.3 Specific Gravity 0.8586 Pour Point, F C 105 41 KV at 40 C, Centistokes 11.58 KV at 100 C, Centistokes 3.098 Sulfur, Wt X 0.133 Nitrogen, Total, ppm 170 Nitrogen, Basic, ppm 85 Hydrogen, Wt 13.62 Aniline Point, F C 204.7 96 Bromine Number 2.9 TABLE 14Catalyst Equilibrium FS 30 Run Numbers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8Conversion, Vol 51.8 54.3 57.6 59.3 60.3 60.7 62.9 63.3C5 Gasoline, Vol 41.6 43.1 45.6 46.7 46.4 47.4 49.8 50.5Total C4, Vol 10.0 10.3 10.2 10.9 11.1 12.0 10.7 10.8Dry Gas, Wt 5.7 6.3 7.3 6.6 7.7 6.7 7.3 6.2Coke, Wt 2.03 2.18 2.39 2.48 2.57 2.52 3.18 3.23 n C41 Vol 0.9 1.0 0.2 1.3 1.0 1.1 0.9 1.1 i C4, Vol 2.4 2.3 3.7 2.5 2.3 3.0 2.8 2.5C4 , Vol 6.7 7.0 6.3 7.1 7.8 7.9 7.1 7.2C3, Vol 1.0 1.0 1.7 1.1 1.2 1.2 1.4 1.0 C3 , Vol 4.7 5.2 7.3 5.7 5.1 5.8 5.6 5.5 C5 Gasoline Alkylate, Vol 60.7 63.4 66.7 68.1 69.6 70.2 71.0 71.8Outside i C4, Vol 10.5 11.4 10.7 11.8 13.3 12.3 11.5 11.8RON O, Raw Gasoline 89.0 0.0 0.0 88.5 88.5 88.5 0.0 89.2RON 0, C5 Gasoline 88.6 0.0 0.0 87.6 87.7 88.0 o.Q 88.1 finn O, C5 Gasoline Alkylate 90.4 0.0 0.0 89.7 89.9 90.1 0.0 89.9 TABLE 15Catalyst Equilibriun FS 30 1 wt ZSM 5 Run Numbers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8Conversion, Vol 42.6 52.2 57.9 60.6 61.2 62.9 63.7 67.5C5 Gasoline, Vol 34.2 41.0 44.8 46.4 48.3 49.3 48.8 51.7Total C4, Vol 8.3 9.2 11.2 10.7 13.0 12.3 12.1 13.6Dry Gas, Wt 5.2 5.2 7.5 7.8 5.3 6.5 8.2 7.3Coke, Wt 1.40 3.09 2.53 2.57 3.01 3.19 2.97 4.05 n C4, 8 Vot 0.9 1.0 0.2 0.9 1.1 1.2 0.4 1.0 i C4 Vol 1.7 2.1 4.2 3.0 3.3 3.0 4.2 3.4 C4 , Vol 5.7 6.0 6.8 6.7 8.7 8.1 7.6 9.2C3, Vol 0.8 0.9 2.1 1.5 1.0 1.1 1.9 1.4C3 , Vol 4.1 4.2 5.8 6.3 4.8 5.7 6.9 6.0 C5 Gasoline Alkylate, Vol 50.6 58.2 65.9 68.2 70.9 72.5 73.0 77.1Outside i C4, Vol 9.3 9.4 10.1 11.7 11.8 12.6 12.2 13.6 D N O, Raw Gasoline 88.8 88.9 91.1 0.0 0.0 89.4 91.1 89.7 RON 0, C5 Gasoline 88.2 88.2 91.2 0.0 0.0 88.5 91.3 89.4RON O, C5 Gasoline Alkylate 90.2 90.1 92.2 0.0 0.0 90.4 92.2 91.1 TABLE 16 FS 30 FS 30 Catalyst FS 30 1 ZSM 5 FS 30 1 ZSM 5Conversion, Vol 55.0 55.0 60.0 60.0 C5 Gasoline, Vol 43.4 42.9 47.0 46.6Total C4 s, Vol 10.5 10.2 11.0 11.4Dry Gas, Wt 6.6 6.2 7.1 6.7Coke, Wt 2.1 2.5 2.6 2.9 nQC4, Vol 0.8 0.7 0.9 0.8 i C4, Vol 2.7 3.0 2.9 3.3C4 , Vol 6.9 6.4 7.2 7.3C3, Vol 1.2 1.4 1.3 1.5C3 , Vol 5.6 5.1 5.9 5.6 C5 Gasoline Alkylate, Vol 64.3 62.4 69.1 68.2 Outside i C4, Vol 11.3 10.0 12.0 11.2RON O, C5 Gasoline 87.9 89.7 87.7 89.9 RCN O, C5 Gasoline 91.3 Alkylate 90.0 91.1 89.9Mix Temperature, F 1035 1057 1071 1079 Selectivation Discussion Example 1 compares runs conducted with a conventional cracking catalyst to runs in which the ZSM 5 type zeolite component was treated at 14500F and 13500F with partial pressure steam and combined with the conventional cracking catalyst to give 1 and 2 ZSM 5 composite catalysts. The efficiency of octane gain, as measured by C5 gasoline yield RON 0, was calculated by adjusting yields with the ZSM 5 additive containing catalyst to the conversion obtained with the conventional cracking catalyst, using a 0.7 incremental gasoline efficiency C5 gasoline yield conversion . No attempt was made to adjust octane, since its sensitivity to the small changes in conversion involved is slight.Referring to the first chart in Table 2, the steaming of the ZSM 5 type additive at 7880C shows the improved yield octane performance. The catalyst composites which contain the ZSM 5 additive steamed 10 hours increased octane by 1 RON 0 with essentially no loss in yield. The 5 hour steamed ZSM 5 additive is not selectivated as much as the 10 hour one as evidenced by the larger yield losses associated with the octane gains. The ZSM 5 additive was also steam treated at 7320C 13500F lower chart of Table 2 . When the ZSM 5 additive was steamed under these less severe conditions, cracking performance was more nearly similar to that achieved with a fresh catalyst, i.e., a C5 gasoline yield RON 0 value of about 2.0. There is some indication from the 1 ZSM 5 composites at the 10 and 15 hour steaming times that longer steaming at these conditions may result in improved gasoline yield octane performance, perhaps approaching that achieved with the 7320C steamings. The gasoline octane selectivity plot, determined from the data in Tables 3 and 4, and the estimated yields at constant conversion as illustrated in Table 5 show that the ZSM 5 composite has equivalent selectivity and higher octane over a wide conversion range, compared to the conventional cracking catalyst. Compared to the conventional cracking catalyst, the ZSM 5 composite improves octane by 1 2 RON 0 over the conversion range studied, with the higher advantage occurring at high conversion high cat oil in the overcracking region. At peak gasoline yields, the advantage is about 1.5 RON O. Coke selectivity of the ZSM 5 catalyst is about equivalent to that of the conventional cracking catalyst.The ZSM 5 catalyst also shows a propensity to produce more dry gas, particularly propylene, and less C41s than the conventional cracking catalyst. The ZSM 5 has a tendency to produce a higher fraction of light olefins, compared to saturates of the same carbon number. This suggests that the ZSM 5 composite catalyst may alkylate or aromatize these olefins, thereby maintaining the gasoline yield and improving octane. Because ZSM 5 produced more propylene and less isobutane in Example 2, it allows for 1.5 2.0 volume higher potential alkylate yield, but requires 1.5 2.0S volume more outside isobutane to accomplish the alkylation. Thus, Example 2 illustrates that the use of a selectivated ZSM 5 FCC additive can improve the gasoline octane number by about 1.5 RON 0 without sacrificing yield. Referring now to Example 3, it can be seen from Table 7 that, after 6 hours cracking time on stream, ZSM 5 shows a gasoline octane increase of 2.5 ROM O at the expense of a 3.2 volume loss in C5 gasoline yield, after adjusting for conversion. Gas make, particularly C3 and C4 olefins and i C4, increased while coke make remains essentially constant. As the ZSM 5 catalyst became more selectivated, the yield patterns changed and improved.The ZSM 5 catalyst was selectivated by exposure to partial pressure steam at elevated temperatures in the regenerator. As time on stream increased, the gasoline yield of the ZSM 5 containing catalyst increased and the gas make decreased while maintaining a 2 3 gasoline RON O advantage, as compared to the conventional cracking catalyst. At the conclusion of the testing, i.e., at 58 hours, the ZSM 5 containing catalyst had virtually the same gasoline and gas make in the fixed fluidized bed testing as the base catalyst and provided a 2.0 gasoline RON 0 improvement. There was a shift in the gas make with ZSM 5 toward the production of the C3 and C, olefins, with a corresponding decrease in the yield of saturates of the same number.While not wishing to be restricted to any one theory, it is believed that the greater light olefin fraction indicates that the gasoline with the ZSM 5 containing catalyst is more olefinic or that the ZSM 5 can act on the higher light olefin concentration to produce a higher octane gasoline by alkylation or aromatization. Additional studies were conducted at the 2.5 Example 4 and 3.5 Example 5 wt level of ZSM 5. The estimated results for the 2.5 wt ZSM 5, as illustrated in Table 10, show octane increased 1 1.5 RON 0 and gasoline plus distillate G D wt yields were essentially the same, as compared to the conventional cracking catalyst. As illustrated in Tables 11 and 12, the estimated results for 3.5 wt ZSM 5, corrected to constant conversion, show initially 4 hours on stream that ZSM 5 raised octane by 4.2 RON O, but decreased C3 4 gasoline yield by 10 volume. However, at long on stream times and increased exposure to partial pressure steam, octane increased 2 RON 0 and G D loss declined to essentially zero. With reference now to Example 6, and particularly Table 16, it can be seen that the conventional cracking catalyst with 1 wt ZSM 5 exhibits a 2.0 RON 0 advantage over the conventional cracking catalyst alone, with only a slight loss in gasoline yield in a short contact time fluid transport unit. From the estimates shown in Table 16, and the gasoline selectivity octane data accumulated from Tables 14 and 15 , the 2.0 RON 0 advantage is apparent with a drop in gasoline selectivity of 0.4S volume over a wide range of conversions near the distillate operating mode. The mix temperature is slightly higher for the ZSM 5 conventional cracking catalyst composite, indicating a slightly lower activity, but the difference is hot large enough to be responsible for octane gain.Thus, the octane gain with only a slight yield loss for the selectivated conventional cracking catalyst ZSM 5 composite was significant in a short contact time fluid transport unit, Additional examples will now be presented which show the preferred catalyst modification procedure, namely aging in a commercial TCC unit. EXAfLE 7 This process was tested in a commercial size TCC unit.Operating conditions are shown below Fresh Feed Rate, m S 2.45 x 10 2 Fresh Feed Rate, BPD 13,400 Recycle o Catalyst Circulation, tons hr 397 Catalyst Circulation, metric tons hr 360 Catalyst Oil 4.44 wt wt Reactor Vapor Outlet Temp. 903 F 484 C Catalyst Activity CAT D 53.8 This unit had a 315 metric ton 347 ton catalyst inventory. The conventional catalyst in the unit had the following specifications. Durabead lOAWt 8 REY 12.08 Bead Diameter 0.36 0.70 cm The changeover catalyst had the following properties Wt Z5M 5 Wt REY 7.5 Bead Diameter 0.36 0.70 cm During normal operation, this unit required makeup catalyst rates of 1.13 metric tons 1.25 tons per day. The makeup catalyst rate is set to satisfy those catalyst losses due to attrition, and also to maintain catalyst activity. Catalyst addition was usually maintained at 1.8 metric tons 2 tons per day, although there were short periods of addition rates as high as 3.6 metric tons 4 tons per day. Results of the test are reported hereafter in Table 1. Feed properties are reported hereafter. The numbers reported are approximate because the feed was a blend of different crudes, and the blend varied somewhat. Feed Properties Test Results Test Test Method ResultsPour Point, C F D 97 29 85Carbon Residue Conradson D 189 0.31Kinematic Viscosity 40C D 445 3 40.55Kinematic Viscosity 100C D 445 5 5.922Aniline Point D 611 164.5Bromine No. D1159 6.8Refractive Index Liquids D1218 9 1.49000API Gravity D1298 3 23.0Density, g cc 0.916Molecular Weight 353Sulfur by XRF, 0.002 5 1.65 Hydrogen Micro Pregl. 12.37Nickel by AA 0.25 ppmVanadium by AA 0.70 ppmIron by AA 3.15 ppmCopper by AA 0.10 ppm Sodium by AA 2.95 ppm Nitrogen Microdumas .16 REDUCED PRESSURE DISTILLATION, D1160 Vol Over C F commat 760 mm IBP 220 428 5 324 615 10 352 665 20 381 718 30 399 750 40 416 781 50 431 808 60 446 835 70 463 865 80 484 903 90 Sl0 9S0 95 528 983 EP 532 990NaTE IBP Initial Boiling Point EP End Point TABLE 7Reactor Effluent SurveysTime on Stream, Days 0 72 92 106Added Catalyst, tons 0 125 177 Metric tons 0 113 161 Reactor Effluent Test ResultsÚ delta delta deltaConversion, Vol 53.0 53.0 53.0 53.0C5 Gasoline, vol. 42.3 40.9 1.4 40.1 2.2 43.6 1.3C4 , wt 12.5 14.1 1.6 13.6 1.1 12.2 0.3C4 , vol 3.8 4.6 0.8 4.6 0.8 4.2 0.4C3 , vol 3.7 4.7 1.0 4.8 1.1 4.2 0.5 Potential Alkylate, vol 12.7 15.7 3.0 15.9 3.2 14.2 1.5Add l i C4 s req d 4.1 6.2 2.1 6.1 2.0 5.5 1.4LFOê, vol 29.9 29.1 0.8 29.3 0.6 26.4 3.5Octane No. R O 86.0 90.2 4.2 90.5 4.5 91.2 5.2 M O4 77.4 79.2 1.8 79.6 2.2 79.5 2.1 ÚNormalized to same conversion and feed properties êLFO Light Fuel Oil R O Research Octane Number, with no lead addition 4M O Motor Octane Number, with no lead addition. T circulating catalyst had, on average, slightly less than 2.5 wt 8 LSM 5. Although roughly half the catalyst inventory had been duped, incrementally, and replaced with changeover catalyst which was rich in ZSM 5, some of the catalyst that was dumped had ZSM 5 in it fran previous additions. Conventional catalyst addition continued after a 2.5 wt t ZSM S level had been obtained. This was primarily to make up for normal attrition losses. This catalyst addition averaged roughly about 0.S per day of catalyst inventory. This makeup catalyst added had no ZSMAS added. The reason for this was that no more ZSM 5 containing catalyst happened to be available at that site.Example 8 Laboratory Evaluation A laboratory test was conducted using a ZSM 5 catalyst in a standard laboratory test apparatus designed to simulate a moving bed cracking operation.Feedstock Properties The feedstock was a gas oil fraction having the approximate properties reported earlier.Changeover Catalyst The changeover catalyst used in the laboratory test was essentially the same as the changeover catalyst used in the commercial test. The catalyst addition scheme used was designed to rapidly bring the ZSM 5 content of the circulating or equilibrium catalyst to the desired level well before 72 days of operation. TABLE 18Laboratory Evaluation of Catalyst SamplesDays 0 72 92 106 158 226 delta delta delta delta deltaConversion, vol 50 50 50 50 50 50 Gasoline, vol 41.6 39.6 2.0 39.8 1.7 38.8 2.7 40.9 0.7 41.5 0.1C4 , vol 2.9 3.5 0.6 3.5 0.6 3.7 0.8 3.3 0.4 3.0 0.1C3 , vol 3.0 4.1 1.1 4.1 1.1 4.3 1.3 3.7 0.7 3.8 0.8 Pot. Alkylate, vol 9.9 12.9 3.0 12.9 3.0 13.5 3.6 12.0 2.1 11.6 1.7Add l i C4 s Req d, vol 2.8 4.2 1.4 4.0 1.2 4.3 1.5 4.1 1.3 4.0 1.2Octane No. R O 83.5 85.5 2.0 85.5 2.0 85.7 2.2 84.5 1.0 84.1 0.6 A POSSIBLE EXPLANATION OLEFIN ISOMERIZATION It is believed that this modified ZSM 5 catalyst has acquired the ability to isomerize olefins.The theory can be stated as follows In order to fully explain these test results the chemistry of octane enhancement being promoted by the ZSM 5 catalyst must first be understood. ZSM 5 increases gasoline octane in catalytic cracking by cracking linear low octane components in the heavy end of the gasoline to lighter and more branched components. Such a mechanism is adequate to explain the performance during the addition of fresh ZSM 5 catalyst.Nevertheless we must also consider the residual octane enhancement observed after fresh catalyst addition has been ended. Based upon gasoline compositional data obtained independent of this commercial test ZSM 5 is now known to isomerize low octane linear olefins to more highly branched and higher octane olefins. We believe the activity enhancement catalyzed by fresh 2SMF5 catalyst addition is dominated by the first reaction, paraffin cracking. As the catalyst ages in the unit and equilibrates the latter reaction mechanism, olefin isomerization, dominates as the cracking activity decreases, hence the residual octane enhancement activity observed. Our test on a commercially sized unit of ZSM 5 addition gave initial octane gains 3.5 4.5 RON O and 2.0 2.5 N O with corresponding gasoline losses of 2.0 2.58 vol and C3 C4 increases of 3.0 4.0 vol. There were no substantial increases in coke make observed. The increase in C3 C4 together with additional outside i C4 can be translated into increases in alkylate yield of 3.0 3.58 vol. The octane enhancement decayed at a relatively slow rate after ZSM 5 addition has been terminated indicating thatZSM 5 octane enhancement shifted from paraffin cracking to olefin isomerization. The cracking of low octane components in the heavy gasoline end is dominant with fresh catalyst while olefin isomerization dominates as the catalyst ages in the TCC unites. If we wanted to improve the operation of a moving bed catalytic cracking unit by the addition of ZS to it, we would replace 1 2 per day of the circulating catalyst inventory with a ZSM 5 rich catalyst containing 1 10 wt t Z S. ZSM 5 catalyst addition would continue until the circulating catalyst inventory contained the desired ZSM 5 content. To obtain modified ZSM 5 catalyst for use in other units, we would add a ZSM 5 makeup catalyst that had much higher levels ofZSM 5, typically 10 to 100 wt t, preferably 20 50 wt t ZSM 5. This may not be the optimal addition scheme as far as the moving bed catalytic cracking unit is concerned, but it would be the best way of making modified ZSM 5 catalyst in a moving bed cracking unit that had to keep running. The ZSMFS rich catalyst added to a TCC may be made with a slightly different particle size, or L D, or geometry, permitting eventual separation and recovery of modified ZSM 5 catalyst from circulating catalyst inventory.