# Security bag.

## Abstract
A bag is formed of transparent polymeric material comprising a pair of side walls and transverse closure means forming a receptacle, and is characterised in that one of said closure means comprises at least one strip of adhesive material which joins the side walls in such a way that breaching of the adhesive material is evident.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A bag formed of transparent polymeric material comprising a pair of side walls and transverse closure means forming a receptacle, characterised in that one of said closure means comprises at least one strip of adhesive material which joins the side walls in such a way that breaching of the adhesive material is evident. 2. A bag according to Claim 1 further characterised by a tearable panel, an adhesive cement joining the tearable panel to the inner surface of one of the side walls, the or each strip of adhesive material being located between the tearable panel and the inner surface of the other side wall. 3. A bag according to Claim 1 or Claim 2 further characterised in that a removable non adhesive strip of tearable material overlies each respective said strip of adhesive material, and is removable therefrom to thereby join said bag side walls. 4. A bag formed of transparent polymeric material comprising a pair of side walls and closure means forming a receptacle, characterised by a paper panel, an adhesive cement joining the paper panel to the inner surface of one of said side walls at the locality of one of said closure means, a plurality of spaced parallel adhesive closure strips extending transversely across the bag at said locality and adhering to said paper panel, and nonadhesive paper strips overlying respective said adhesive strips and inhibiting adhesion thereof to the other said side wall until torn away from their respective said adhesive strips. 5. A bag according to Claim 4 further characterised in that said closure means comprise a transversely extending seam weld between the side walls spaced longitudinally of the adhesive closure strips, and defining therewith said receptacle. 6. A bag according to Claim 5 further characterised in that said transverse seam weld lies intermediate the ends of the bag, and by a further adhesive closure strip at an end thereof which defines, with the side walls and the seam weld, a pocket when said strip adheres to both said walls. 7. A bag according to Clam 6 further characterised in that said further adhesive closure strip is similar to the closure strips of Claim 4. 8. A bag according to any one of claims 4 to 7 further characterised in that said paper panel is colour responsive to at least one solvent. 9. A method of positive identification of an exhibit or article , comprising positioning said exhibit or article in the receptacle of a bag according to any one of claims 4 to 8, tearing the outermost paper strip of said spaced parallel paper strips from its said adhesive strip, entering intelligence on the paper panel at the locality of said adhesive strip, and adhering the adhesive strip to the other said panel. 10. A method according to claim 9 further comprising making an incision in a wall of said bag between the outermost said unsealed adhesive strip and the innermost sealed strip, removing and replacing the contents of the receptacle, tearing the overlying nonadhesive paper strip from said outermost unsealed adhesive strip, entering further intelligence on the paper panel at the locality of that strip, and resealing th bag with that strip. 11. A method according to claim 9 or claim 10 further comprising positioning portion of a code label into said pocket, tearing a matching end from the code label, tearing the overlying non adhesive paper strip from the adhesive strip of the pocket, and adhering both the torn edge of that portion of the code label within the pocket, and the two side walls of the pocket, together with said adhesive strips. 12. A bag substantially accordingto the embodiment as described in the specification and illustrated in the accompanying drawings. 13. A method of positive identification of an exhibit or article substantially as described in the embodiment in the accompanying specification and using a bag according to Claim 12.

## Description
TITLE SECURITY BAG This invention relates to a bag which is useful for containing a substance or article which may be required, for example, as an exhibit for legal evidential purposes, and therefore must be subject to strict security, and the invention extends to include a method of positive identification of such an exhibit.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION In the control of drug abuse, and in many other police activities, there is frequently a need for a bag to contain an exhibit, in such a way that it will become self evident if the exhibit has been tampered with in any way. This is particularly desirable where the exhibit is required for evidential purposes. This requirenent has been recognised for a considerable period of time, but although bags are produced with barbed type closures, nevertheless tampering is still possible and the main object of this invention is to provide improvements whereby a bag can be produced economically and yet give substantial security against tapering with the contents, unless such tampering becomes self evident.BRIEF SUMMARY OF TEE INVENTION In the invention a bag is formed of transparent polymeric material comprising a pair of side walls and transverse closure means forming a receptacle, and is characterised in that one of said closure means comprises at least one strip of adhesive material which joins the side walls in such a way that breaching of the adhesive material is evident. With this arrangement it becomes possible for the bag to be initially sealed, for example immediately drugs are seized, and the contents to be examined and the bag to be subsequently re sealed, retaining the identity of the contents under conditions of security.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF TRE DRAWINGS An embodiment of the invention is described hereunder in sone detail with reference to, and is illustrated in, the accompanying drawings, in which FIG. 1 is an exploded perspective view of a bag according to the invention, FIG. 2 is a similar view showing the bag in its assembled state, FIG. 3 is a section taken on line 3 3 of FIG. 2, FIG. 4 is a section taken on line 4 4 of FIG. 2, drawn to an enlarged scale, FIG. 5 is a section taken on line 5 5 of FIG. 2, drawn to a further enlarged scale, and FIG. 6 is a plan view of the bag illustrating the method of use. In this embodiment a bag 10 is formed from clear thermoplastics material1 for example, polyvinyl chloride , and is provided at a pocket end 11 with a strip 12 of SCOTCH tape, and at the other receptable end 13 with a plurality of parallel strips 14. In this embodiment the SCOTCH tape i8 an adhesive transfer tape identified by the designation 9471, and consists of a tape with an overlying nonadhesive paper which can be torn away to allow the tape adhesive to become effective. The word SCOTCH is a trade mark of Hinnesota Mining Manufacturing Australia Pty. Ltd. and is available from the said company at 24 Crittenden Road, Findon, State of SouthAustralia. It is identified as a Scotch BrandProduct. FIG. 1 illustrates five strips 14 which are first cemented to an upper wall 16 of the bag 10 at the receptacle end 13 thereof, and one further similar strip 12 cemented to the same wall 16 of the receptacle end 13. A paper panel 17 is cemented to the lower wall 18, and the paper panel 17 is formed from a material which alters colour if a solvent is used purple, blue or other colour being typical . It also has a characteristic of delaminating if, after the strips 14 are adhered to the paper panel, they are removed.Additionally, the paper panel utilises a perforated portion along which it will tear when taken off. In this embodiment the paper is a white paper having the trade mark SENSICHECK and is available fromAssociated Pulp and Paper Mills, Paper Division, BolongRoad, Bomaderry, New South Wales. The adhesive which is used is sold under the trade mark FASSONS S260 and is selected because of its ability to cement the paper panel 17 to the lower wall 18 without discolouration of the paper panel.After the paper panel has been cemented, the upper and lower walls are joined by means of an RF weld both along the side edges 20 and also with a transverse intermediate weld 21 which is intermediate the ends of the bag 10 and divides it into its receptacle end 13 and its pocket end 11. The edge of this weld remote from the pocket is to be tapered so that it is not sharply defined. The side welds are about Smm wide and formed between sloping shoes so that the outer edge of the bag has minimal thickness and the inner edge of the weld is not sharply defined. When prepared for use, the pocket end has part of a code label 23 inserted therein, the code label being torn at 24 and one portion remaining in the pocket 25 while the outer portion is retained. If desired, an instruction card 26 is also inserted into the pocket, although in the same embodiment the required instructions may be printed on the paper panel 17. The overlying paper strip of the adhesive strip 12 is then removed, and the pocket sealed by the adhesive strip with an effective seal becomes the adhesive and is aggressive and will constitute an excellent adhesive both between the two sources of the polymeric material and the edge of the torn code label 23. The bag is then identified as an accountable item. When siezed, the required exhibit is inserted into the receptable 28 of the bag 10, and the outermost adhesive strip 14 is exposed by tearing away the overlying non adhesive paper strip. A first signature 29 and date is then written on the paper panel, and the receptacle 28 is sealed. As shown in FIG. 6, when access is required to the receptacle 28, and first incision 30 is made in one of the walls 16 or 18, the exhibit is removed, say for analysis purposes, and the bag is resealed as before, again with a signature and date being written onto the paper panel before resealing. This can be repeated four times and still leave a receptacle 28 containing at least some of the exhibit with a visible record of previous openings It is believed that the security offered by this invention is acceptable for the purpose of court proceedings, and yet the bag is one of relatively low cost which can be easily handled and used by simple obedience to the instructions which are printed, for example on the instruction card 26. The manner in which the bag may be used is as follows The bag serial number is identified by a strip of paper or cardboard, bearing the serial number and bar code at each of two ends. When the strip is torn intermediate its ends, one half of the label is inserted within the bag and adhered between the two walls by removal of the covering paper of the SCOTCH strip therebetween. In addition to sealing by this means, heat sealing is also imparted to that end the base of the bag, which thereby becomes permanently closed. Contents are placed in the bag and a description of the contents enclosed in the bag is written on white paper beneath the sealing strip which is sealed to close the mouth of the bag after the cover strip has been removed. If required, a thermal weld is made to give additional security. If the contents need examination for any purpose, say for example for analysis, then the outermost seal is cut away and discarded and a second seal is made after the contents have been examined. This can be repeated several times. The invention will be seen to be particularly simple but nevertheless provides a bag which is useful in many applications, particularly for police work.