# A LIPOLYTIC ENZYME DERIVED FROM A ASPERGILLUS MICROORGANISM HAVING AN ACCELERATING EFFECT ON CHEESE FLAVOR DEVELOPMENT

## Claims
Biologisch reine Kultur eines Stamms von Aspergillus mit der Hinterlegungsnummer ATCC 20719.

## Description
The present invention relates to a novel Accelerating of cheese aging to improve cost efficiency through a reduction of storage space is becoming more important to the cheese industry. Currently, lipases from two different sources, animal pregastric glands, and animal pancreases, are being added to cheese curd as accelerators. A third source, microbial lipases, has been used for production of strongly flavored cheeses, but not mild cheeses. Lipases derived from the pregastric gland of kid, calf and lamb are currently being added to accelerate ripening in cheese of Italian type Provolone, Romano, Parmesan where the characteristic rancid flavor of low molecular weight free fatty acids e.g. butyric acid is desirable. However, when these pregastric lipases are used to accelerate mild flavored cheese, e.g. Cheddar, too much of the low molecular weight fatty acids are produced and a rancid flavor develops. When the animal pancreas lipases are used in a high concentration,excessive amounts of lauric acid is produced in the cheese, making a soapy taste. Moreover, unless highly purified, these lipases can contain an abundance of protease which although in small amounts aids cheese softening, in larger amounts it produces bitter off flavors. In the search for lipases showing desirable ripening characteristics, numerous organisms such as Little information is available on the relationship between specific free fatty acids and flavor intensity in cheese although the presence of butyric acid usually is associated with strong rancidity development in strong cheese and the presence of large amounts of lauric may lead to a soapy flavor. Longer chain fatty acids have been linked to fruity flavors. It is generally noted that all of the even numbered free fatty acids are present but the concentration of the specific fatty acids varies in different types of cheese. The present invention relates to isolated cultures of a selected mutant strain of The novel strain of fungus according to the invention has been identified as a novel strain of According to one aspect of the invention, therefore, there is provided a biologically pure culture of a strain of Aspergillus having the deposition number ATCC 20719. The Lipase having this characteristic appears to be useful as a ripening accelerator in mild flavored cheese production, such as Cheddar cheeses. The less efficient hydrolysis of the shorter C₄ triglycerides suppresses the development of rancid flavors which are unwanted in mild cheeses. When isolated from the present FIGURE 1 is a graph showing the effect of mycelium concentration on lipase release. FIGURE 2 is a graph showing the effect of temperature on lipase activity at pH 6.2. FIGURE 3 is a graph showing the effect of pH on lipase activity at 33 C. FIGURE 4 is a graph showing the effect of temperature on lipase activity at various pHs. FIGURE 5a f are graphs showing the effect of time on lipase activity at various temperatures and pHs. FIGURE 6 is a graph showing the effect of time on tricaprylin hydrolysis by the present lipase at 40 C. FIGURE 7 is a graph showing the effect of time on tricaprylin hydrolysis by the present lipace at 50 C. FIGURE 8 is a graph showing the percent hydrolysis of a specific free fatty acid to total free fatty acid in enzyme added cheeses. FIGURE 9 is a graph showing the percent hydrolysis of a specific free fatty acid to total free fatty acid in enzyme added cheeses. The Lipase can be made in a shaker flask by inoculating directly from the PDA slant into 100 ml. of sterile medium at pH 5.1 5.0 5.2 containing 6 soy bean meal, 5 monobasic ammonium phosphate, 0.5 Magnesium sulfate crystal , 2 soy oil, 1L Erlenmeyer flasks. After 3 5 days at 30 C and an agitation of 265 RPM, the culture is filtered. Preferred ranges for culture ingredients are 1 10 oil .1 1 sulfate 1 5 phosphate and 3 8 soybean meal. The concentrations of MgSO₄, NH₄ H₂PO₄ and oil is important to optimum production of lipase activity. The initial pH must not be below 5.0. Production in a fermenter requires some modifications. The medium components are as described for shake flasks, but it is necessary to use an intermediate step of inoculum to reduce the growing time to the interval of 3 5 days. The inoculum volume used is 5 1 to 10 of a nutrient containing 4 whole wheat flour and 8 corn steep water at pH 5.5. The sterile inoculum nutrient is inoculated with the PDA slant and grown 30 50 hrs. at 30 C and then transferred to the growing medium. Here, the oil may be corn or soy oil and the concentration may be from 1 6 . All of the oil can be present initially or added in increments after growth has started. Filtering the fungal mycelium effectively isolates the lipase. The lipase activity of the crude culture when harvested pH 4.5 5.0 is bound to the mycelium. The mycelium free culture filtrate contains essentially no lipase activity 5 , and all soluble extracellular components which may have a negative effect on cheese flavor. Release of lipase activity from the mycelium into a second extraction filtrate depends on the concentration of the mycelium, the pH, the buffer salt concentration of the extraction filtrate 0.5 3.0 PO₄ at optimum pH , the concentration of surfactant preferably 1 , and the treatment time. Fig. 1 illustrates how the amount of lipase released to extraction filtrate using Ethofot 242 25 surfactants varies according to the concentration of mycelium. All of this data was obtained at pH 6.2. Optimal recovery of lipase from mycelium is achieved normally at pH 6.2 because the lipase free from mycelium shows excellent stability for long periods. As the pH increases the lipase is less stable, and it is actively destroyed above pH 7.5. For example, after 42 hours at 4 5 C filtrate showed 94 , 87 and 74 activity retention respectively at pH 6.3, 6.8 and 7.4. After treatment under optimal conditions, about 80 90 of the lipase activity can be recovered from the mycelium filtrate. The lipase in the extraction filtrate can be used directly for cheese flavor modification or alternatively concentrated Two different assays have been used for lipase activity. In the first, potentiometric titration is performed so as to determine lipase forestomach units LFUs . One LFU equals the activity that releases 1.5 µ mol of butryric acid per minutes, Food Chemical Codex 3rd Ed., National Acadamic Press, 1981. The titation substrate is prepared by dispering an amount of sodium caseinate equivalent to 600 mg of casein, in 95 ml of water contained in a one half pint freezer jar that fits the head of a suitable high speed blender. This is mixed with 0.5 gm of hydroxylated lecithin. Finally 5.0 ml of Tri n butyrin is added and mixed for 60 sec. at low speed. This substrate must be held to 33 C and used within 4 hours. The sample is prepared by suspending or dissolving an accurately weighed amount of enzyme in water. To measure, the titrator is filled with 0.05 N sodium hydroxide, and the instrument is calibrated following the manufacturer s instructions. The substrate is mixed for about 15 sec with a magnetic stirrer, then 20.0 ml is pippetted into the reaction vessel of the titrator. One ml of the sample is added and equilibrated for 15 min. The rate, in ml per min., at which the titrant was delivered during the titration, is determined and recorded as R. The activity of the enzyme is calculated by the formula It should be noted that the enzyme s ability to hydrolyze tricaproin C6 , tricaprylin C8 , tricaprin C10 , can be measured simply by replacing tri n butyrin with the desired substrate. A second assay is the cream acid titration method. An aliquot 20.0 ml of 10.5 butterfat Half and Half is placed into 2 oz. glass jars and brought to 33 C in thermostated water bath. After temperature equilibrium has been established about 10 minutes , 1.0 ml of enzyme solution is added and incubated for 2 hours. Then 10 ml of ethanol denatured formula 2A is suitable is added to stop the reaction before titrating with 0.05N NaOH to pH 9.5. The titration should be carried out with a glass electrode and the incubation mixture plus alcohol should be stirred with a magnetic bar. A substrate control 20 ml half half plus 10 ml water is run to correct for the amount of alkali required to neutralize the salts present in the cream. An enzyme control is also run to correct for the amount of alkali required to neutralize the salts present in the enzyme. The increase in acidity corresonding to a 1 hydrolysis of the butterfat is equivalent to a titration difference of 1.65 ml 0.05N NaOH. Activity is calculated from the following relationship The effects of temperature and pH on tributryin hydrolysis by the present lipase is noted in Figs. 2 4. As seen in Figure 2, the optimum temperature for enzyme activity is approximately 42.5 C, while Figure 3 shows that the optimum pH is close to 7.0. A sharp decrease in activity as the temperature is raised can be seen in Figure 4, the effect being more dramatic with an increase in pH. The plots given in Fig. 5a f also indicate that an increase in time accentuates the adverse effect of pH values above 6.2, although pH 7.0 is clearly optimal at temperatures below 60 C. The present lipase has been used to hydrolyze specific triglycerides tricaprylin, tricaproin, and tributyrin into their respective free fatty acids FFAs caprylic, caproic, and butyric acids. Conventional gas chromatography techniques can be used to measure these FFAs. Hydrolysis has been measured in the following manner. Five gm of triglyceride is blended with 100 ml phosphate buffer pH 6.5, 0.05 m containing 1 gum arabic to form an emulsion, which is shaken with 2.0 ml of fungal lipase 100 mg for 4 hours at 33 C. To stop the reactions, 10 ml of ethanol is added, and the resulting free fatty acids are measured by gas chromatography. The free triglyceride hydrolysis results are as follows The present lipase hydrolyzes both tricaproin and tricaprylin more efficiently than it hydrolyses tributyrin. This type of hydrolysis can be demonstrated by taking a ratio of the two numbers C C₄ . Increased rate of hydrolysis can be shown by the ratio TC TB. Typically, the increased rate of activity results in equivalent C₈ C₄ production. This specificity is unique for the present lipase. The following table shows the tricaprylin TC to tributyrin TB hydrolysis ratio TC TB for known lipases, as cited by known authors Figures 6 and 7 illustrate the significantly better TC hydrolysis versus TB hydrolysis of the present lipase and how it can be increased with temperature. At 40 C and pH 7.0 the TC TB ratio is 1.73, while at 50 C and pH 7.0 it is an even greater 2.49. The present lipase has been tested for hydrolysis of those triglycerides present naturally in milk. To test for hydrolysis, 180 ml of 10.5 butter fat cream is treated with 0.36 g 0.2 and 0.90 g 0.5 of either the present lipase or calf lipase. Samples are held for 15 days at 0 3 C before free fatty acid C4 to C12 is determined by gas chromatography. A control cream sample without enzyme is carried also through the experiment. The results of the milk test are as follows. Although FFA production of the present lipase is nearly identical to that of calf lipase for C4 production, all of the other FFA data show that the present lipase hydrolyzes the glycerides of C6, and C8, and C10 to a much greater extent. For example the present lipase shows, respectively, 5.8x, 4.6x, 2.7x more C6, C8, C10 than the calf lipase at 0.20 concentration, and 2.8x, 3.4x and 13.4x at 0.50 concentration. The present lipase has been tested also for production of 5 emulsions of soy, butter, and coconut oils. Chromatography of the treated emulsions 4 hours at 33 C reveals the ability of this lipase to hydrolyze a whole range of triglycerides. The level of certain triglycerides in the mixtures and the ability to fully emulsify the substrates can alter the rate of specific free fatty acid released as illustrated in Table 7. Cheese has been made with the present lipase in the following manner. Milk is obtained from a diary farm, batch pasteurized at 62.5 C 145 F for 30 minutes, and then held at 2.5 C 36 F until the following day. Colby cheese is made using Hansen CH 60Y as a starter . Equivalent activity amounts of the present lipase and Miles 600 calf lipase by cream assay are preweighed and mixed with salt to give 2 salt by weight. Eight treatments of the cheese are made using 20 pound blocks. Control blocks with salt but without enzyme are made as well. The resulting cheeses are sampled at 1, 28, 72, 102, and 198 days. They are evaluated organoleptically and analyzed for free fatty acids by gas chromatography, known acid degree value ADV tests, and also by 12 TCA soluble nitrogen tests. After 72 hours, the cheeses having 0.048 present lipase and 0.128 calf lipase have about the same ADV and total FFA, which is 50 70 greater than that of the control. However, at 102 and 198 days, the concentrations of enzyme used and for which data has been tabulated are too high for good flavor in that too much free fatty acid has developed. The calf lipase produces too much butyric acid, and the present lipase, too much total free fatty acid C14 C18. At lower concentrations 0.012 and 0.024 the present lipase gives good aged flavor without rancidity associated with butyric acid at 102 days. The control has weak flavor at this point, while the calf lipase showed the typical rancidity associated with butyric acid at days, even with low levels of the enzyme preparation 0.064 and 0.032 . Figs. 8 and 9 illustrates the triglyceride hydrolysis data for the control cheese and cheeses prepared with 0.048 NM 313 lipase and 0.128 calf lipase. It is readily apparent that at 72 days and 102 days, the butyric acid content in cheese made from the calf lipase is very elevated over that of the control. On the other hand, cheese made with the present lipase is more like the control cheese as far as butyric acid levels. The present lipase reduces the mild cheese aging process by 2 5 times. At 102 days the present lipase added cheese shows greater C16, C18, C18 1 and C18 2 content than the control cheese, indicating an acceleration i.e. more rapid flavour development of the usual ripening process. Thus, cheeses manufactured with the present lipase develop a Cheddar like flavor while those of the calf lipase produces an Italian type flavor. It is apparent that the lipase derived from the present