# METHOD FOR SOLUBILIZING MICROBIAL COATINGS AND PROTEIN COMPLEXES

## Claims
Assay Verfahren, das umfaßt die Herstellung von Mikroben Protein für einen Immunoassay, wobei das Verfahren umfaßt

## Description
This invention relates generally to a method for solubilizing proteins, and especially to a method for solubilizing microbial proteins and protein complexes. More particularly, the invention relates to the use of detergents for the solubilization of protein to liberate or expose the protein antigenic properties without destroying the ability to detect the protein antigen in an immunossay. Detergents have long been recognized as reagents for solubilizing many biochemicals, particularly microbial proteins and protein complexes. This ability might be useful for liberating or exposing antigens in the proteins which subsequently may be detected by immunoassay techniques. Unfortunately, however, detergent in an antigen solution inhibits a conventional immunoassay by preventing the binding of the antigen to a solid phase immobilized antibody. Heretofore, no practical, inexpensive method has been available for eliminating this adverse effect of detergent on immunoassay. Simple dilution of the sample is unsatisfactory. For example, if the immunoassay sample is diluted after solubilization so that the concentration of detergent no longer affects the assay procedure, the concommitant reduction in antigen concentration results in an antigen level which is usually below the assay threshold sensitivity. Similarly, increasing the initial concentration of antigen in the immunoassay sample such that the concentration of antigen after dilution is above the sensitivity threshold is ordinarily not practical, as sample specimens are often of necessity small. There is thus a need in the art for a method of detergent solubilization of proteins which does not simultaneously inhibit immunoassay procedures. EP A 0059 624 describes an immunoassay for Clamydia trachomatis. The samples assumed to contain C. trachomatis are treated with SDS and assayed without removing the detergent. In Anal. Biochem, Vol.100, 64 69, 1979 , a spectrophotometric protein determination using Coomassic blue is disclosed, SDS is precipitated from the test samples before the assay by addition of potassium phosphate buffer. The present invention is directed to a method for preparing protein obtainable from the outer membrane of micro organisms, with a view to immunoassay of the protein and thus of the micro organism. In the present method, a sample is mixed with an anionic detergent. The sample solution is then heated to an elevated temperature such as 40 C or more for a sufficient time for protein solubilization to occur. Before or after heating the sample solution, an alkali metal cation or alkaline earth metal cation is added to the sample solution. The anionic detergent itself will have an associated cation, and the added cation is thus a second cation which is preferably different to the detergent cation. The sample solution is then cooled, suitably to 30 C or less. The presence of the second cation leads to precipitation of the detergent. The precipitated detergent can then be removed from the sample solution so that detergent does not interfere with a subsequent immunoassay. The present invention is particularly useful in the preparation of microbial cell protein speciments such as those of the principal outer membrane of Since The only serological test in current use is the microimmunofluorescence test. This test, however, requires that the strains of Before cell proteins of organisms such as Generally, the invention concerns a method for preparing microbial proteins for immunoassay, comprising providing an aqueous solution which includes a protein solubilizing quantity of a detergent and a compound having an alkali or alkaline earth metal ion as a cation, the compound functioning as a temperature dependent precipitating compound by causing the detergent to precipitate from the solution at room temperature or slightly above, but having no effect on detergent solubility at elevated temperatures placing a specimen sample of microbial protein in the solution and mixing to form a sample solution heating the sample solution to an elevated temperature incubating the sample at the elevated temperature for a sufficient time for protein solubilization to occur cooling the sample solution to a temperature sufficiently low to precipitate the detergent and assaying the sample solution for the present of antigen. The method of the invention involves the use of a temperature dependent precipitating agent for removing a protein solubilizing quantity of detergent from an immunoassay specimen sample. Detergents are very effective protein solubilizing agents, particularly for microbial cell proteins such as the principal outer membrane protein of It has been discovered that the inclusion in the sample solution of a compound containing an alkali or alkaline earth metal ion greatly reduces the aqueous solubility of a detergent, such as lauryl sulphate, at room temperature or slightly above usually at or below about 30 C , but has little or no effect on solubility at elevated temperatures. Because of their ability to effect temperature dependent precipitation of detergent, these compounds will sometimes hereinafter be referred to as precipitating compounds. It is to be understood that this connotation does not mean that the compounds themselves precipitate, only that they facilitate precipitation of detergent. By alkali or alkaline earth metals is meant the elements of Groups I and II of the Periodic Table, which include, among others, lithium, sodium, potassium, magnesium, calcium and barium. Thus, for example, an aqueous solution of a sodium or lithium lauryl sulphate and potassium ion can be used to solubilize microbial protein at elevated temperature. The solution then is cooled to about room temperature or slightly above, causing the detergent to be precipitated out. The detergent may optionally be removed by centrifugation or filtration. Whether or not the precipitated detergent is removed, the immumoassay can then be performed on the sample of protein without interference from the detergent. Since the precipitating compounds plays no role in the invention until the cooling step, it may be added to the solution after the protein is solubilized, rather than combined initially with the detergent. Suitable detergents for use in the invention include anionic detergents, especially alkyl sulphates such as C₈ ₂₀ alkyl sulphates, more especially a lauryl sulphate such as sodium dodecyl sulphate and lithium dodecyl sulphate. Generally, detergent is present in the solution in concentrations of from 0.01 percent weight per volume to 2.0 percent weight per volume. Desirably, the concentration is from 0.01 to 1.0 percent weight per volume, with from 0.05 to 0.1 percent weight per volume being preferred. The precipitating compound is suitably present in the solution in concentrations of from 0.01 M to 2.0 M. Desirably, the concentration is from 0.01 M to 1.0 M, with from 0.05 M to 1.0 M being preferred. Any water soluble compound having an alkali or alkaline earth metal ion as a cation can be used. The compound may be, for example, a phosphate, chloride or carbonate salt. The selection of a particular precipitating compound is influenced by the particular detergent used. For example, sodium dodecyl sulphate is precipitated most easily at room temperature by sufficient concentrations of potassium, calcium or barium ion, while lithium dodecyl sulphate, in addition to the above ions, will be adequately precipitated by ions of magnesium and sodium. In a typical procedure, aqueous solution of detergent and precipitating compound is added to a specimen sample, such as a cervical or urethral swab. The sample is mixed thoroughly with the aqueous solution of detergent and precipitating compound to form a sample solution. In mixing the sample solution at room temperature the detergent remains undissolved. The solution, with the undissolved detergent, is heated from room temperature to a temperature of from about 60 C to about 120 C, and maintained at that temperature for a period of from about 5 min to about 30 min. At this incubation temperature, the detergent dissolves and solubilizes the microbial protein, exposing the antigen for immunoassay purposes. After incubation, the solution is cooled rapidly using an ice bath or other suitable means to a temperature sufficiently low to allow precipitation of the detergent. Alternatively, the solution may be cooled slowly until it reaches room temperature. A suitable buffer such a phosphate for example, 0.2, sodium phosphate, 0.1 weight per volume bovine serum albumin, pH 7.4 may be added before or after the incubation. The buffer maintains the pH of the solution between 6.5 and 8.0. After cooling, the precipitated detergent may be removed, or left in the sample. If left in, the detergent has little or no effect on the immunoassay since it is not in solution. As noted above, a particular use for the method of the invention is in the solubilization of Species specific antibodies against an antigen such as MP 39.5 can be generated by suitable inoculation procedures with laboratory animals such as mice and or rabbits. The animal generated antibodies may be used in assays for infection in other animals. These assays may be conducted using well known procedures for assaying the presence of bacterial antigen in the infected subject. Once a supply of monospecific antibodies has been secured from antigen inoculated laboratory animals, either direct or indirect assay procedures can be undertaken with specimens secured from mammals suspected of harbouring infections. Assay techniques such as enzyme linked immunoadsorbent assay or radioimmunoassay are suitable for these purposes. In a direct assay procedure, monospecific antibody against the antigen is attached covalently or noncovalently to a solid phase support system. As is customary in these techniques, the support system may be glass, plastics or the like. The solid phase support with attached monospecific antibody may be incubated with a specimen prepared according to the method of the invention and previously secured from an individual suspected of having an infection. Monospecific antibody, which has been previously radiolabelled or conjugated with enzyme by known techniques, is then equilibrated against the support system. Any antigen present in the specimen and which has been bound to the antibody on the support system will in turn bind to the radiolabelled or enzyme conjugated antibody. If radiolabelled antibody is used, the relative residual radioactivity in the sample then may be determined. This value is compared to specimens that have been determined to be free of the antigen. In the event enzyme conjugated antibody is used, a substrate specific for the enzyme is added to the solid support reaction mixture and the resultant colour change is recorded spectrophotometrically. This colour change is compared to samples known to be free of the antigen. The presence of an antigen such as MP 39.5 in the mammalian specimens thus can be assayed directly. Alternatively, indirect assay procedures can be used. Specifically, the antigen may be covalently or noncovalently bound to a suitable solid phase support system. A specimen from the individual suspected of having an infection is prepared as described above. The specimen then is mixed with a known quantity of radiolabelled or enzyme conjugated antibody against the antigen, previously secured from a laboratory animal source. The specimen antibody mixture then may be incubated with a solid support system and its bound antigen. The radioactivity of the solid support system is measured, or colour development in the enzyme conjugated system is measured, and compared to specimens similarly treated as standards and which do not contain antigen. The ability of the clinical sample suspected of containing a particular microorganism to inhibit the binding of the solid support reveals the presence, or absence, of the antigen in the clinical specimen. Any demonstrated inhibition indicates the presence of infection. Other suitable assay methods and variations will be apparent to those skilled in such assay techniques. The following example illustrates the method of the invention in an assay for To a 450 µl sample of