# Boring device.

## Abstract
The present invention relates to a boring device for boring internal surfaces of hollow workpieces of the kind which comprises radially adjustable insert provided holders 19 , there being provided pressure means, such as steering pins 32 so as to effect radial adjustment of the insert holder from an outer active working position to an inactive position. The radial adjustment occurs by having each insert holder via said steering pins supported against a bushing 29 of non circular cross section actuatable by a shaft member 27 centered within the bushing, said bushing upon its rotation effecting said radial adjustment.

## Claims
Claims 1 e bor device, comprising a boring head provided with at least one adially adjustable insert holder. l9 and one or several guide pads 12 adapted to abut and slide along the surface of the bore to be machined, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in, that each insert holder is arranged to abut pressing means 32 arranged in contact with a bushing 29 having a bore 28 or non circular shape within which an axially movable shaft 24 is received with radial clearanee 30 , there being provided means c so as to cause radial adjustment of the insert holder 19 upon axial movement of said shaft, said adjustment occurring between a working position and a radially inner inactive position of said holder. 2. Boring device as defined in claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the axially displaceable shaft 24 is jointly rotatable with the bushing 29 , said bushing 29 having an oval shaped mantle surface. 3. Boring device as defined in claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the shaft 24 has an axial extesf 27, 50 of square cross section received in the bore 28 of the bushing 29 , said bore 28 being rectangular in cross section. 4. Boring device as defined in any of claims 1 3, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in, that the boring head 10 is provided with two diametrally opposed insert holders 19 , said adjustment means 32 comprising two steering pins 32 in radially opposite positions of said bushing 29 to perform radial adjustment of said holder 19 . 5. Boring device as defined in any of claims 1 4, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in, that the boring head 10 is provided with a radial set screw 25 adapted to engage a peripheral slot 26 in the mantle surface of the shaft 24 such that said screw 25 following the path of said slot 26 upon axial movement of said shaft 24 . 6. Boring device as defined in any of the claims 1 4, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in, that the shaft 24 is provided in twospieces, an outer member 45 and an inner member 46 , said inner member 46 being axially and rotably ad 3unstable uponlrotary movement of said outer member 45 . 7. Boring device as defined in claim 6, c h a r a c t e r t z e d in, that the outer shaft member 45 is provided with an axial recess 51 leaving a mantle surface of halfspherical shape, a correspondingly shaped portion of said inner shaft member 46 engaging complementarily in said recess 51 , both said members being supported in the bore 47 of a tubular member 48 threadably engaged with the boring head 10 . 8. Boring device as defined in claim 6 or 7, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in, that the outer shaft member 45 is provided with a transversely extending slot 52 for engagement with a first steering member 25 in the boring head 10 , said inner shaft member 46 being provided with an L slot 53 for engagement with a second steering member 54 in the boring head. 9. Boring device as defined in any of the claims 6 8, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in, that a spring member 55 is arranged axially between the portion of said inner member 46 received in said tubular member, and the bushing 29 , so as to exert axial movement to the inner member after rotation thereof and radial removal of the insert holder 19 . 10. Boring device as defined in any of the claims 1 9, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in, that the insert holder 19 is pivotally supported on an axially extending axls 21 11. Boring device as defined in any of the claims 1 10, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that a spring 42 ic ved in the boring head 10 in a position adjacent to the insert holder 19 , one end of said spring engaging said holder so as to urge it radially inwards 12. Boring device as defined in any of the claims 1 c h a r.a c t e r i z e d in, that the insert h older 19 is provided with radial adjustment means comprising a radial setting screw 45 engaging a slot 44 in the hol der such that inscrewing said screw 45 causes the radially outer insert holding portion of said holder 19 to move radially outwards. 13. Boring device as defined in any of the preceo jr g claims, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the insert 1 gentially oriented in said insert holder 19 .

## Description
Boring deviceThe present invention relates to a boring device for boring the internal surfaces of workpieces of the kind which comprises radially displaceable insert provided holding members.The invention is specifically concerned with the type of boring head used.for skiving, hereinafter called skiving tool for instance for tubes that should have a bearing surface mating with hydraulic cylinders.During such working the tool is axially advanced through the workpiece. The skiving tool can be provided with one or several guide pads adapted to support and guide the tool along the bore in the workpiece. Usually there is provided a combined tool for boring and roller burnishing for finishing the internal surface of the bore to be produced. This burnishing operation is effected when the skiving tool is axially returned to its initial position before starting each processing cycle. It is to be understood that each insert on the skiving head has to be withdrawn before such burnishing in order not to cause damages on the i jtern surface of said bore previously produced.The known boring head arrangements all have considerable diE advantages, primarily due to the dismounting of the i r from the boring head before burnishing is to occur. Simultaneously it has not to a desirable extent been found possible to provide rapid and simple radial adjustment of the inserts on the boring head. It is also desirable being able to provide adjustment of releasable fastened inserts of a boring head only by mechanical means.It is an object of the present invention to provide a boring tool which avoids the above mentioned disadvantages of such tools known in the art. With these and other objects in view the insert package of the tool is able of being radially reciprocated in a new manner, which enables improved possi bilitles of maintaining one and same diameter throughout the entire length of the bore to be produced.The object of the invention is obtained by providing a boring head provided with radially adjustable insert holders and one or several guide pads axially extending along the periphery of said boring Aead, the improvement being the arrangement of each insert holder so as to abut pressing means arranged in contact with a bushing having a bore of non circular shape withir which an axially movable shaft is received with radial clearance, there additionally being means provided so as to cause radial adjustment of said insert holder upon axial movement or said shaft, said adjustment occurring between a working position and a radially inner inactive position of said insert holder.The bushing can advantageously be oval in shape whilst jointly rotatable with said shaft so as to provide radial adjustment between said working and inactive positions.The invention will now be described more in detail in connection with the accompanying drawings, illustrating a preferred embodiment of the invention.Fig. 1 is an axial sectional view of the tool according to the invention,Fig. 2 is an enlarged view of a detail of Fig. 1,Fig. 3 is a cross section along the line X X with the tool shown in working position,Fig. 4 is a cross section along the line X X with the tool shown in non working position,Fig, 5 is a cross section of an alternative embodiment of the invention.Fig. 6 is an axial sectional view of a tool according to another embodiment of the invention with the tool shown in WO r Ss, Ng positionSFig 7 is a section along the line A1 A1 in Fig. 6,Fig. 8 is a section along the line B1 B1, in Fig. 6,Fig. 9 is an axial sectional view of the tool of Fig. 6 shown in non working position,Fig. 10 is a section along the line A2 A2 in Fig. 9,Fig. 11 is a section along the line B2 B2 in Fig. 9 and Fig. 12 is a side view showing the adjustable shaft of the embodiment in Figs. 6 11.Referring now to the drawings Figs. 1 3 show a tool comprising a boring head 10 for skiving operations, the mantis surface of which being provided with two diametrally opposed releasably fastened inserts 11 and longitudinally extending guide pads 12. These pads might be made of wood or bajicsaite adapted to slide against the surface of the bore to be produced. The boring head 10 is supported on an arbor 13, the fore portion 14 of which supports said head 10, supports a roller burnishing tool 15 for finishing the internal surface of the bore to be produced. This combined tool for boring and burnishing the internal surfaces of workpieces is connected to a feed tube not shown by means of which said tool is able to be axially advanced through a hollow workpiece.The boring head 10 is connected to the end 14 of said arbor 13 by means of a bolt 17 received in a bore 16 that extends transversely through the arbor, said bolt 17 being arranged in the boring head such that a rotary force transmitting coupling is achieved therebetween.As mentioned above the boring head 10 is adapted for internal skiving operations and for that purpose said boring head 10 is equipped with two diametrally opposed circularly shaped cutting inserts 11 which are tangentially oriented and consisting of cemented carbide or any other wear resistant material. It is to be understood that also other than circular shapes of inserts are usable. The inserts 11 are releasably fastened and hence they can be indexed in order to expose a new edge portion for cutting operations. For that purpose each insert is centrally apertured so as to receive therethrough a centre screw 18 threadably engaged with a tool holder 19, which is releasably clamped into a peripheral recess 20 of said boring head 10. More specifically, said tool holder 19 is pivotally supported on an axially oriented axial portion 21 in said boring head 10.The end portion of the boring head 10 located opposite from said rolled burnishing tool 15 is provided with an axially extending shank portion 22 which is provided with a central bore 23 therethrough in which a shaft 24 extending from said shank portion 22 is supported. The shank portion 22 is provided with a radial setting screw 25 the innermost portion of which is adapted to engage in a spirally extending guiding slot 26 on the mantle surface of said shaft 24. The end portion 27 of the shaft 24 facing the roller burnishing tool 15 is square in cross section and supported in a rectangularly shaped recess 28 in a bushing 29 whilst leaving radial clearance 30 therein. The bushing 29 is oval in shape and is axially non displaceable in a corresponding central bore 31 in the boring head 10. The mantle surface of said bushing is arranged in abutment with two diametrally opposite steering pir 32. The opposite surfaces of said pins 32 are suitably smoothly rounded for surface abutment with their respective insert holders 19 which, as already mentioned, are pivotally mounted on support shafts 21 axially extending on said boring head 10.Due to this arrangement with radial clearance 30 between the shaft end 27 and the recess 28 a radial linear movement for the insert holders 19 is achieved which facilitates the achievement of uniform diameter of the hole to be produced. It is to be tErietrstooda however, that also other alternative shapes of saia shaft end 27 and said recess 28 can apply if a radial movement of said insert holders 19 is provided for.The roller burnishing tool 15 consists of a support ring 33, which by means of another ring 34 is axially non displaceably arranged in axial abutment with a radial shoulder abutment 35 on said shaft 13. The support ring 33 has a frustoconical surface 36 with reducing diameter in a direction opposite from said boring head 10. This surface abuts against corresponding conically shaped rollers 37 arranged with axial spacing in an annular cage 38 which is rotatably mounted in relation to said shaft 13 by means of ball bearings 39. A sleeve 40 threadably engaged with the shaft 13 is arranged, after turning thereof, to provide for adjustment of various diameter values for the rollers 37 of said roller burnishing tool.As initially related skiving occurs whilst axially advarning the sklving tool 10 through the bore of the relevant wol piece. After the finalization of said cycle the inserts 11 should be removable into an inner inactive position. According to the invention said removal of the inserts is possible by having the insert holders 19 supported against a rotatable bushing 29 of non circular shape which is able to provide radial adjustment to the holders 19 and the inserts 11 via cylindrical steering pins 32. The mechanical action that must be induced to the shaft 24 located inside said bushing 29, which is jointly rotatable with the shaft 24, is accomplished by having said shaft 24 advanced against a stop means 41.Upon continued advancement of the tool said shaft 24 is urged to rotate because of the spiral path in the slot 26 on the mantle surface of the shaft 24, which the setting screw 25 must follow. Since the inner section 27 of said shaft received in said bushing 29 has a square cross section it is needful to have the shaft turned around just 900 to have the inserts 11 entirely removed from their working positions to their inactive positions.The tool is then subjected to a return stroke whilst finish machining the bore by the roller burnishing tool member 15. It is to be understood that any other indication means, alternative to said stop means might be used to cause a rotary movement to said shaft 24 and removal of said inserts from a working position after finalization of each working cycle. It would be possible also to use any other means than those shown for the purpose of causing radial adJustment of said insert holders 19, for instance some axially movable, non rotatable means located between said shaft 24 and said holders 19.In order to ensure that each insert holder 19 is always urged against the ends of the steering pins 32 licated opposite to the tool axis, even after adjustment thereof to the inactive position, there is provided a spring means 42 re ceived in the boring head 10, one end portion of said spring being adapted to engage in a recess 43 in said holder 19.In order to be able of having each insert holder 19 radially adjusted to a position inbetween said outer worki sition and said inactive position the holder 19 is provided with a tangentially extending slot 44 as shown inFig. 5 in which a radial set screw 45 provided in said holder 19 engages. When in screwing said screw 45 the radially outer insert holding portion of said holder 19 is pressed radially outwards. Alternatively said set screw 45 could be arranged in direct surface contact relation with the steering pin 32.In Fig. 6 13 there is shown an alternative embodiment of adjustment means that is able to cause radial adjustment or said insert holders 19 from working to inactive positions. There is provided a shaft corresponding with the shaft 24 in Figs. 1 2 but now provided in a two piece struc tu e, an outer zing member 45 and an inner member 45. The outer mr 45 is supported within the bore 47 of a tubular member 48, said tubular member 48 being threaded at 49 aP.ci engaged with corresponding threads of the tool body.The inner meber 46 is also partially supported within saSu tubular member 48 whilst having an axial extension 50 of square cross section centered in the bushing 29, the mant la surface of which is in surface abutment with radial steering pins 32 in the manner shown in connection withFig le The outer member 45 is provided with an axial recess 51, leaving a half spherical mantle surface provided with a transversal I slot 52 with which the set screw 25 is intended to engage similar to Fig. 1. The inner member 46 is likewise half spherically shaped and adapted to be received in the correspondingly shaped recess 51 whilst provided with an L slot 53 in its mantle surface in which a steering pin 54 is engageable.A coiled spring 55 and a spring washer 56 is located between the portion of said inner member, received in said tubular member, and the bushing 29.When the boring head has finalized its working cycle it is desirable to have the inserts 11 removed radially before the return stroke. For that purpose said outer member 45 partially extends beyond the tubular member so as to be engageable with a suitable hand tool. With the embodiment shown the I slot extends to 90 transversely, so upon turning said outer member 900 the inner member 46 is also rotated 90 thus causing a corresponding amount of rotation to the bushing which ensures radial removal of said inserts 11. At the termination of said rotation the guide pin 54 is caused to engage and follow the axially extending path of the I slot 53 due to the spring pressure by the coiled spring 55, i.e. pressed to the left in Fig. 9. This causes a safe fixation of the inserts 11 in said inactive position upon removal so that the return stroke of the tool can occur without the danger of unwanted surface damage being caused by the inserts against the bore.It is to be understood that also an inverted embodiment is practically possible, i.e. an embodiment where the inner member 46 is advanced axially inwards in the tool upon adrusting the position of said bushing 29.