# New therapeutically active spirocycloalkylamines and pharmaceutical preparations comprising such compounds.

## Abstract
Compounds of the general formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A compound characterized by the formulaEMI19.1 wherein the dotted lines represent optional double bonds,X represents a halogen or pseudohalogen selected from C1,Br or CF and A represents a monoloweralkylamino group or the groupEMI19.2 wherein R is a hydroxyloweralkyl group, wherein the hydroxy group when occurring is optionally esterified with a fatty acid having 3 to 20 carbon atoms, or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof. 2. A compound according to claim 1 characterized by the formulaEMI19.3 3. A compound according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that A represents the groupEMI20.1 and R is as defined in claim 1. 4. A compound according to one or more of claims 1 to 3 in the form of a substantially pure cis or trans isomer. 5. A compound according to one or more of claims 1 to 4, in which the dotted line in the six membered hydrocarbon ring represents a double bond, in the form of a substantially pure enantiomer. 6. A compound characterized by the formulaEMI20.2 wherein the dotted lines represent optional double bonds,X represents a halogen or pseudohalogen selected from Cl, Br or CF3, or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof. 7. A pharmaceutical preparation comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the formulaEMI20.3 wherein the dotted lines represent optional double bonds X represents a halogen or pseudohalogen selected from C1,Er or CF3 and A represents a monoloweralkylamino group or the groupEMI21.1 wherein R is a lower alkyl cr hydroxylowerelkyl group wherein the hydroxy group when occurring is optionally esterified with a fatty acid having 3 to 20 carbon atome, or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof

## Description
NEW THERAPEUTICALLY ACTIVE SPIROCYCLOALKYLAMINES ANDPHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS COMPRISING SUCH COMPOUNDSDESCRIPTIONTECHNICAL FIELDThe present invention is related to new compounds of the spiro dibenzocycloheptene cyclohexaneamine type.An object of the invention is to provide compounds for therapeutic use. A further object is to provide compounds having a therapeutic activity in the central nervous system. BCKGRD UNL ARTAmong the compounds disclosed by US Patent 4 053 632 are compounds under the general formulaEMI1.1 wherein the dotted lines represent optional double bonds.The compounds have neuroleptic properties.DISCLOSURE OF INVENTIONThe present invention is related to compounds of the general formula EMI2.1 wherein the dotted lines represent optional double bonds,X represents a halogen or pseudohalogen selected from Cl, Br or CF3 and A represents a monoloweralkylamino group or the groupEMI2.2 wherein R is a hydroxyloweralkyl group. Lower alkyl means an alkyl group containing 1 to 4 carbon atoms.The hydroxy group, when occurring, is optionally esterified with a fatty acid having 3 to 20 carbon atoms. Pharmaceut ically acceptable acid additions salts of the compounds of formula I are within the scope of the inventionAccording to a preferred embodiment the invention is related to compounds of the formulaEMI2.3 wherein A is as defined above. Preferred compounds of. the invention are those compounds of formula I or Ia in which A represents the groupEMI3.1 The compounds of the invention as defined above have valuable therapeutic properties as neuropharmacological agents, especially in use as neuroleptic or anti psychotic agents. Further, the compounds of the invention have a reduced heart toxicity as compared with related known compounds. Additionally the compounds of formula I may be useful as anti depressive or anxiolytic agents.In a broadened concept the invention is related to compounds of formula I wherein A additionally represents the groupNH2. The compounds wherein A is NH2 have a neuropharmacological activity and may be useful for treatment of certain neurological disoroers such as depression. The primary amines are further useful as intermediates in preparation of other compounds of the invention.The compounds of the invention exist in two diastereomeric forms, one wherein the chlorine atom and the nitrogen atom are in cis relationship to each other and one wherein said atoms are in trans relationship to each other. For convenience these diastereomers are referred to as cis and trans forms respectively.In compounds of the invention containing a double bond in the six membered hydrocarbon ring each diastereomer exists as two optical antipodes or enantiomers.This invention also takes into consideration that compounds which structurally deviates from the formula I, after administration to a living organism may be transformed to compound of the formula I and in this structural form exert their effects. This consideration is a further aspect of this invention.Methode of PreparationThe compounds of the invention may be obtained by one of the following methods, constituting a further aspect of the invention.a Reacting a compound of the formulaEMI4.1 wherein D representsEMI4.2 orEMI4.3 and N is a reactive acid residue such as a halogen atcrr. a lower alkylsulfonic or an arylsulfonic acid residue or such as a methylsulfonyl or tolylsulfonyl group, with an amine of the formula H A wherein A is as defined above, whereby when D representsEMI4.4 the reaction takes place in the presence of reducing agent. Thus, the process may follow a LeuckartWallach reaction carried out with heating in the presence of formic acid as the reducing agent, suitably after initially forming the formate of the amine. Freparation of starting compounds wherein C representsEMI4.5 is described in J. Med.Chem 17 1974 pages 65 7 . Starting compounds wherein D representsEMI4.6 are obtainable by reducing the corresponding ketone in which D representsEMI4.7 with a reducing agent, suitably a hydride reducing agent such as ,iAlH4 or NaBH4, and esterifying the hydroxy group with an acid giving the residue M. b A compound of formula I wherein A represents a monoloweralkylamino group is also obtainable by alkylation of the corresponding primary amine by methods known per se. Thus the primary amine may be reacted with a haloformic acid ester and the carbamate formed be reduced to a compound of formula i wherein A is a methylamino, or the primary amine may be reacted with formamide and formic acid in an Eschweiler Clarke reaction.A compound defined by the formula I wherein A is replaced by NH2 are preparable by method a above using ammonia as the adduct and by the following additional methods Reduction of a compound of the formulaEMI5.1 wherein E isEMI5.2 EMI5.3 EMI5.4 and R is hydrogen, a lower alkyl group or an aryl group such as phenyl or tolyl.Degrading a compound of the formulaEMI5.5 by one of the known rearrangement reactions to the formation of the primary amine of formula 1, whereby in aSchmidt reaction Z is a hydroxy group or an acid residue such as an organic acid residue of the formula R COOor an inorganic residue such as Cl, Br or I, in a Hofman reaction, Z is NH2, in a Curtius reaction 7 is N3, and in a Lossen reaction 7 is W O CO R , and R is as defined above. The Schmidt reaction may be carried out under heating with hydrazoic acid or an inorganic salt thereof, suitably in the presence of a strong mineral acid. The Hofman reaction may be carried out by treat ment of the amide with Br or C12 under alkaline condi 2 2 tions.The Curtius reaction may be carried out by heating the azide in an inert solvent and subsequent hydrolysis of the intermediate formed. The Loosen reaction may be carrIed out by heating the starting compoud in an aqueous solution, possibly under alkaline cond1tion , and, if necessary, hydrolysis of the compound formed. Both organic and inorganic acids can b employed to non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts of the compounds of this invention.Illustrative acids are sulfuric, nitric, phosphoric, hydrochloric, citric, acetic, lactic, tartaric, pamoic, ethanedisulfonic, sulfamic, succinic, cyclohexylsulfamic, fumaric, maleic and benzoic acid. These salts are readily prepared by methods known in the art. In clinical practice the compounds of the present invention will normally be administered orally, rectal, or by injection, in the form of pharmaceutical preparations comprising the active ingredient eithEr as a free base cr as a pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic, acid addition salt, e.g. the hydrochloride, lactate, acetate, sulàmate, and the like, in association with a pharmaceutically accent atle carrier. Acoordingly, terms relating to the novel compounds of bi S invention whether generically or specifically, are intended to include both the free amine base and the acid addition salts of the free base, unless the context in which such tErms are used, e.g. in the specific examples, would be inconsistent with the broad concept. The carrier may be a solid, semisolid or liquid diluent or capsule.These pharmaceutical preparations constitute a further aspect of this invention. Usually the active substance will constitute between 0.1 and 39E by weight of the preparation, more specifically between 0.5 and 20 by weight for preparation intended for injection and between 0.2 and 5OCc by weight for preparations suitable for oral administration. Pharmaceutical preparations containing a compound of the nw vention in a solid form of dosage units for oral application may preferaly contaIn between 2 and 50 by weight of the active substance, in such preparations the selected compound may be mixed with a solid fine grain carrier, e.g.lactose, saccharose, sorbitol, mannitol, starches such as potato starch, corn starch or amylopectin, cellulose derivatives, or gelatin and a lubricant such as magnesium stearate, calcium stearate, polyethylene glycol waxes, and the like, and then compressed to form tablets. If coated tablets are required, the cores, prepared as described above, may be coated with a concentrated sugar solution which may contain, e.g. gum arabic, gelatin, talcum, titanium dioxide, and the like. Alternatively the tablet can be coated with a lacquer dissolved in a readily volatile organic solvent or mixture of organic solvents. Dyestuffs may be added to these coatings in order to readily distinguish between tablets containing different active substances or different amounts of the active compound. For the preparation of soft gelatin capsules pearl shaped closed capsules consisting of gelatin and, for example, glycerol or similar closed capsules, the active substance may be admixed with a vegetable oil. Hard gelatin capsules may contain granulates of the active substance in combina tion with solid, fine grain carriers such as lactose, saccharose, sorbitol, mannitol, starches e.g. potato starch, corn starch or amylopactin , cellulose deriva.tives or gelatin Liquid preparations for oral application may be in the form of syrups or suspensions, for example, solutions containing from about 0.2 to about 20 by weight of the active substance herein described, the balance being sugar and a mixture of ethanol, water, glycerol and propylene glycol. Optionally such liquid preparations may contain colouring agents, flavouring agents, saccharine and carhoxy methylcellulose as 2 thickening agent.Solutions for parenteral applications by injection can be prepared in an aqueous solution of a water soluble pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the active substance preferably in a concentration of from about 0.5t t about 10 by weight. These solutions may also contain stabilizing agents and or buffering agents and may conveniently be provided in various dosage unit ampoules.In therapeutical treatment the suitable daily doses of the compounds of the invention are 5 500 mg for oral appli cation, preferentially 50 250 mg and 1 100 mg for parenteral application, preferentially 10 50 mg.The following examples will further illustrate the inventionIn diastereomer ratios given the diastereomer with the shortest retention time is mentioned first. Example 1 3 Chloro 10,11 dihydrospiro 5H dibenzo a,d cycloheptene. 5,1 cyclohex 2 en 4 one oximeA solution of 3 chloro 10,11 dihydrospiro 5H dibenzo a,d cycloheptene 5, l cyclohex 2 en 4 one 10.8 g, 35 mmol and NH20H HC1 10.0 g, lt5 mmol in 100 ml of pyridine was heated under reflux for 4 hours. The solution was concentrated to about half the volume and poured onto icewater. After stirring for 1 hour the white precipitate was filtered off and washed several times with cold water.The dried product was recrystallized from acetonitrile giving 7.9 g 70 of th oxime m.p. 183 185 C.Example 2 3 Chloro 10,11 dihydrospiro 5H dibenzo a,d cyclohepten 5,1 cyclohex 2 en 4 amineTo a solution of the oxime prepared according to Example 1 7.0 g, 21.6 mmol in 100 ml of dry benzene a solution of 50 ml of NaAlH2 0CH2CHR0CH3 2 70 in benzene was added dropwise with stirring at ambient temperature. After the evolution of H2 had ceased the solution was heated under reflux for 4 hours. The excess of hydride was destroyed by adding a saturated Na2SO4 solution. A conventional amine work up procedure yielded the amine as a vlscuous oil 6.3 g .The acetate was recrystallized from isopropyl alcohol, yield 5.9 g 74 m.p. 1P1 182 C. HPLC analysis with iso octane ethanol conc NH3, 90 10 0.1, as eluant showed a ratin of diastereomers of 30 70. Example 3 3 Chloro 10,11 dihydro N methylspiro 5H dibenzo a,d cycloheptene 5,1 cyclohex 2 en 4 amineEthyl chloroformate 1.95 g, 18 mmol was added dropwise with stirring to a mixture of the amine prepared according to Example 2 4.0 g, 13 mmol in 20 ml of CHCl3 and 10 ml of a 2 M NaOH solution at 0 C. After the addition the mixture was stirred for 15 minutes and then the CHCl3 layer was washed with water and dried MgSO4 . Work up gave the corresponding ethyl carbamate 4.3 g and the crude product was used in the next step without further purification. A sorution of the ethyl carbamate 3.7 g in 25 ml of dry etcher was added dropwise with stirring to a suspension of LiS 2.0 g, 52 mmol in 50 ml of dry ether Et2O at room temperature and then heated under reflux for 4 hours.Work up gave the desired N methyl amine as an oil 2.6 g . The maleate was precipitated from an ether solution it an equivalent amount of maleic acid. Recrystallization of the malsate from ethanol water 1 1 gave 2.9 g 51a from the primary amine of the amine maleate m.p. 231 C dec .Analysis of the product with HPLC showed it to contain the diastereomers in proportion 20 80.Example 4 4 3 Chloro 10,11 dihydrospiro 5H dibenzo a,d cycloheptene 5,1 cyclohex 2 en 4 yl1 1 piperazineethanolThe same starting ketone as used in Example 1 4.6 g, 15 mmol was added to N hydroxyethylpiperazine formate 5.3 g, 30 mmol , prepared by dropwise addition of HCOOH 1.4 g, 30 mmol to N hydroxyethylpiperazine 30 mmol at 0 C, and the mixture was heated at 160 C for 6 hours.After cooling, the reaction mixture was poured into icewater and work up with CHCl3 gave the amine as an oil 4.1 g . Recrystallization of the maleate from EtOH yielded the amine maleate 4.7 g 4BE m.p. 1910C dec . The dia stereomeric composition was found to be 70 30.Example 5Preparation of tablets a Each tablet contains Compound of Example 4 maleate 10 mgLactose 60Starch 2 Magnesium stearate 1The powders are mixed and directly compressed to tablets with a diameter of 6 mm.b Compound of Example 4 maleate 50 mg Aerosil silicium dioxide 20Lactose 100Starch 30Magnesium stearate 2The active principle is mixed with the Aerosil. This mixture is added to the other powders. Tablets are compressed with a diameter of 10 mm. Example 6Preparation of capsules a Compound of Example 4 base 20 mgPeanut oil 60 mgThe solution is filled into soft gelatine capsules, each capsule containing 20 mg of the active principle.b Compound of Example 4 base 10 mgPolyoxyethylene sorbitane monoleat 100The capsules are made as described above.The active substance employed in Examples 5 and 6 may be replaced by other pharmaceutically acceptable acid addItion salts according to the invention.Pharmacology 1. Neuroleptic effectsBehavioural and biochemical studies suggest that neurc leptic drugs such as chlorpromazine and haloperidol block central dopamine DA receptors. The DA receptor blockade as measured by different in vitro and in vivo techniques correlate roughly with the antipsychotic efficacy. The blockade of the behavioural effects induced by the DA receptor agonist apomorphine is highly correlated to the antipsychotic effect of various neuroleptics. The ability of potential neuroleptics to block the apomorphine induced behaviours may thus be a valuable predictor of the anti psychotic efficacy in man.MethodsMale Sprague Dawley rats, weighing 250 300 g, were used.The rats were observed in perspex cages and the behaviour was scored 5, 20, 40 and 60 min. after apomorphine. The compounds were injected intraperitoneally 60 min. prior to apomorphine hydrochloride 1 mg kg dissolved in saline , which was injected subcutaneously into the neck. This dose and form of administration was found to produce a very consistent behavioural response and very low variation in the response strength. Directly after the injection the animals were placed in the cages, one in each cage. Scoring of the stereotyples was performed by a modified version Fuxe et al. in Rhinencephale Neurotransmetteurs etPsychoses, by G. Masson, Paris 1977, F. 253 of the system introduced by Costall and Naylor Eur. J. Pharmacol. 24 B 1973 .The number of animals, displaying hyperactivity caused by apomorphine, was scored. Each group consisted of 6 8 animals. Saline controls were always run simultaneously.The ED50 s for stereotypies are the doses which reduce the strength of the stereotypies by 50 over the observation period of 60 min. The Ed50 s for hyperactivity are the doses which reduce the number of animals showing hyperactivity by 50 over the observation period of 60 min. ED50 s were calculated from log dose curves from 4 6 levels with 6 8 animals per doss level. The test compounds were dissolved in saline or water.ResultsThe results are summarized in Table 1. The secondary amine Example 3 was active and showed a preferential inhibition of the apomorphine induced hyperactivity. The hydroxyethyl piperazine compound Example 4 was found to block preferentially the apomorphine induced locomotion. Said compound was as potent as clozapine to block apomorphine induced hyperactivity and was more potent than clozapine to block the stereotypies.Table 1EMI14.1 tb SEP cl SEP ED50, SEP pmol kg SEP i.p. tb SEP Diastereomer SEP Stereo SEP Hyper tb Example SEP No. SEP A SEP ratio SEP typies SEP activity tb SEP Compounds SEP of SEP the tb SEP invention tb SEP 3 SEP A SEP SEP NHCH3 SEP 20 80 SEP 65 SEP 15 tb SEP 4 SEP N SEP N CH2CH2OH SEP 70 30 SEP 70 SEP 24 tb SEP Prior SEP art SEP comzounds tb SEP N CH3 2 SEP 55 45 SEP 35 SEP 6.4 tb SEP Chlorpromazine SEP 6.2 SEP 6.2 tb SEP Clozapine SEP 104 SEP 26 tb The apomorphine induced hyperactivity and stereotypies have been suggested to be due to stimulation of DA receptors in the limbic areas e.g. nucleus accumbens and striatum, respectively.It has also been proposed that the antipsychotic effect of the neuroleptics is connected with a blockade of DA receptors in the nucleus accumbens and the extrapyramidal side effects of these drugs to a blockade ofDA receptors in the stratum. The results of the present study indicate that the amines of Examples 3 and 4 may have antipsychotic effect s with low tendencies to induce extrapyramidal side effects. 2. Heart effectsMethodsMale Sprauge Dawley rats weighing 290 360 grams were used.The animals were prepared for recording the arterial blood pressure through a catheter implanted into the abdominal aorta and for injection of drugs through a catheter implanted into the abdominal vena cava. Both catheters were exteriorized at the base of the neck. At least five days were allowed for recovery after the operation.The animals were kept immobilized in restraining cages during the experiment. The arterial blood pressure was continuously monitored on a Grass Model 7 Polygraph via aStatham F23Gc transducer. Electrocardiograms were taken from subcutaneously placed thin needle electrodes and recorded on a Mingograph 34 Elema Schrnander AB, Sweden . Groups of rats ere given consecutive increasing intravenous doses of the test compounds from the dose scale 0.25, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, B, 16, 32 and 64 mol kg. The test compounds wereInjected over a period of 30 seconds at an interval of five minutes at doses of 0.25 8 umol kg and with an interval of 15 minutes at higher dose ranges.The minimum doses that caused changes in mean arterial blood pressure, heart rate, PR, QRS and OT intervals of more than 15 from values before administration were arbitrarily defined as a drug effect.ResultsThe results are shown in Table 2. The compounds of the invention caused heart effects only in doses substantially higher than the dose of the prior art compound that caused such heart effects. While the prior art compound produced a.rhytmias at 2 4 umol kg the tested compounds of the invention produced such effects only after administration of 16 and 64 mol kg, respectively. It is concluded from these findings that the compounds of the invention are markedly less heart toxic than the prior art compound tested. Table 2Effects on intravenous administration of test compounds on arterial blood pressure, heart rate and electrocardiogramm EMI17.1 SEP Minimum SEP doses SEP mol kg SEP causing tb SEP changes SEP in tb SEP Minimum SEP doses tb SEP Mean SEP mol kg tb SEP arterial SEP causing tb SEP blood SEP Cardiogram SEP arrhythmias tb Example SEP No. SEP SEP Diastereomer SEP pressure SEP Heart SEP rate SEP intervals SEP Second tb SEP ratio SEP Decrease SEP Decrease SEP FR SEP QRS SEP QT SEP degree SEP AV block tb Compounds tb of SEP the tb invention tb 3 SEP A SEP SEP NHCH3 SEP 20 80 SEP 8 16 SEP 16 SEP 16 SEP 8 SEP 16 SEP 16 tb 4 SEP A SEP SEP N N CH2CH2OH SEP 70 30 SEP 8 SEP 16 32 SEP 32 SEP 16 SEP 16 SEP 64 tb Prior SEP art tb compound SEP A SEP SEP N CH3 2 SEP 55 45 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 2 4 tb BEST ODE OF CARRYING OUT THE INVENTIONThe compound H 3 chloro 10,11 dihydrospiro 5H dibenzo a,d cycloheptane 5,1 cyclohex 2 en 4 yl 1 piperazine ethanol, processes for preparing said compound and methods employing said compound represent the best mode of carrying out the invention known at present.INDUSTRIAL APPLICABILITYThe invention is useful in the chemical and pharmaceutical industry and in health care.