# LAMP SUPPORT

## Claims
Halter für eine elektrische Einrichtung 6 aufweisend

## Description
The present invention relates to a support for an electrical device, such as, for example, an electric lamp. A lamp support is disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,175,809 Dusko which support comprises a stationary base, means supporting the base above an underlying surface, a rotatable member mounted for unlimited rotation with respect to the base and supporting said electrical device, an insulating member mounted for unlimiting rotation with respect to the rotatable member, first electrical contact means on said insulating member, second electrical contact means in the rotatable member mounted for continuous slidable engagement with the first contact means in all relative positions of said insulating member and said rotatable member, first electrical conductor means connected to the first electrical contact means, and second electrical conductor means connected to the second electrical contact means. The support described in U.S. 4,175,809, however, is designed for attachment to a table by the use of a specific attachment member, and the support would appear to be stable only when such attachment member is present. In contrast to the above mentioned patent, the present invention provides a support for an electrical device of the type described above, but characterised in that the base is an annular base, the rotatable member is mounted within the base by annular bearing means, the base supporting means extends radially outwardly of said annular bearing means for resting on the underlying surface, one of said first and second contact means includes an annular contact and a central contact both disposed radially inwardly of and concentric with said annular bearing means and spaced apart radially, the other of said first and second contact means includes a pair of radially spaced apart contacts respectively continuously slidably engaging said annular contact and said central contact, the first electrical conductor extends outwardly through the supporting means and is adapted at its other end for connection to a source of electrical energy, and there is further provided means operable to complete a circuit between the second electrical conductor means and the electrical device. A preferred embodiment of the invention includes an electric lamp supported on an arm extending laterally from the top of a column, the column being mounted on a conical base capable of unlimited rotation with respect to a stationary annular base. The conical base may rest on a ball bearing supported by the annular base, a terminal disc being connected by a second ball bearing to the underside of the conical base. Wires leading from the terminal disc to a commercial outlet pass between a plurality of legs that support the stationary base. The arrangement is such that the column may be rotated without applying substantial torque to the wires leading to the terminal disc. Sliding contacts on the rotatable base supporting the column co operate with contacts on the terminal disc, so that the only torque applied to the wires is that necessary to slide the contacts. In a modification, the terminal disc is fixedly supported on the annular base and the second ball bearing is eliminated. Hence, there is no torque applied to the wires. The column is mounted eccentrically with respect to the conical base. The arm supporting the lamp is fixed on the column. The lamp and the center of the column are diametrically opposite with respect to the center of the base, so that the weight of the lamp is balanced by the weight of the column. The lamp is pivoted for 180 rotation about the end of the arm, but the arm is curved as a volute so that the center of the lamp is never more than 30 away from the diameter through the column center and the center of the base. The column is constructed in sections. The conical base is thick walled and is rotatably mounted on the annular stationary base. A thick walled section of the column is mounted on the conical base. A plurality of thin walled column sections are stacked above the thick walled section. The arrangement provides a low center of gravity since the conical base and the thick walled column section are at the bottom. The sections are fastened together by concealed nuts. The periphery of the conical base extends outwardly beyond the fixed annular base, so that the joint between the conical base and the annular base is concealed when viewed from above. The height of the lamp may be adjusted by separating two of the column sections, after which the upper one of the two sections is frictionally held in any adjusted position. The lamp is mounted between two light directing members, above and below the lamp. Each light directing member is constructed with concentric rings spaced apart to give air circulation. The rings above the lamp are reflective on the bottom. The upper light directing member includes a peripherally annular outer reflector. The spacing between the rings allows circulation of air to cool the lamp. The stationary base is supported on an underlying surface by means of a plurality of feet. Each foot comprises an arch with its bottom surfaces radially spaced with respect to the center of the base. The upper surface of each arched foot is provided with a groove to receive a ridge on the bottom surface of the annular base. Fig. 1 is a perspective view of a floor lamp embodying the invention. Fig. 2 is a bottom plan view of the base of the floor lamp of Fig. 1. Fig. 3 is a top plan view of a modification of the floor lamp of Fig. 1, showing three positions of certain parts. Fig. 4 is a cross sectional view of the base and the bottom section of the column of the floor lamp of Fig. 1. Fig. 5 is a sectional view taken on the line 5 5 of Fig. 4, with certain parts omitted. Fig. 6 is a fragmentary elevational view of one of the feet which support the base. Fig. 7 is a top plan view of the foot of Fig. 6, on a smaller scale. Fig. 8 is a cross sectional view of the next section of the column above the one shown in Fig. 4. Figs. 4 and 8 partially overlap. Fig. 9 is a sectional view of the next section of the column above Fig. 8, and partially overlapping Fig. 8. Fig. 10 is a cross sectional view on the line 10 10 of Fig. 9. Fig. 11 is a sectional view of the section of the column above Fig. 10, partially overlapping Fig. 10. Fig. 12, is a sectional view of the section of the column above Fig. 11, partially overlapping Fig. 11. Fig. 13 is a sectional view of the uppermost section of the column above Fig. 12, partially overlapping Fig. 12, and showing a portion of the lamp supporting arm in elevation. Fig. 13A is an exploded view showing the lamp supporting arm and the upper end of the column separated. Fig. 13B is a sectional view taken on the line 13B 13B of Fig. 13A, showing the upper end of the column in detail. Fig. 13C is a cross sectional view of the upper end of the column connected to the lamp supporting arm. Fig. 14 is a sectional view taken on the line 14 14 of Fig. 13. Fig. 15 is a bottom plan view of a lower light directing means at the end of the arm, with an upper light directing means removed. Fig. 16 is a cross sectional view of the lamp assembly taken on the line 16 16 of Fig. 15. Fig. 17 is an elevational view of the latch member in Fig. 16. Fig. 18 is a side elevational view of the latch member of Fig. 17. Fig 19 is a plan view of the upper light directing means of the lamp assembly. Fig. 20 is a fragmentary view similar to a portion of Fig. 4, showing a modification. Fig. 21 is a view similar to Fig. 2, showing a bottom plan view of the modification of Fig. 20. Fig. 1 illustrates a floor lamp embodying the invention, including an annular stationary base 1 supported on an underlying surface by means of six feet 2. A conical rotatable base 3 is supported on the stationary base 1 by means of a bearing to be described in detail below. A sectionalized column 4 is fixed eccentrically on top of the base 3 and orbits around the center of the base as the base rotates. At the top of the column 4 an arm 5 extends in a volute curve. The outer end of the arm 5 is substantially diametrically opposite the column 4, with respect to the center of the base 3. At the outer end of arm 5, a lamp assembly, generally indicated at 6 is supported. The lamp assembly 6 is pivotally mounted on the arm 5 so that it may be rotated about that pivot through angle of 180 , as illustrated in Fig. 3. Fig. 3 shows a modification in which the arm 5 extends around the column 4 in a counterclockwise direction, whereas in Fig. 1, the arm 5 extends around the column 4 in a clockwise direction. The base of the lamp includes the annular stationary base 1, and the conical rotatable base 3, which is supported on the stationary base by means of a ball bearing generally indicated at 7 Fig. 4 . The outer race of the bearing is formed on the inner periphery of the annular base 1. The inner race of the bearing 7 comprises an upper annular race member 10 and a lower annular race member 11. The race members 10 and 11 are joined together by screws, one of which is shown at 12 in Fig. 4. The inner race, comprising the two race members 10 and 11, is fixed on the bottom of the rotatable base 3 by means of screws 13, one of which is shown in Fig. 4. The balls of the bearing 7 are captured between the inner and outer races, so that the conical base member 3 and the column 4 supported thereon are rotatable as a unit on the stationary base 1. The stationary base 1 has an upwardly projecting annular ridge 1a, received in a recess 3a in the conical base member 3. Within the annular lower race member 11, there is rotatably mounted an insulating assembly 14 which includes an upper disk 15 and a lower cover plate 16 fixed to the upper disk by means of screws, one of which is shown at 17 in Fig. 4. An annular contact 20 is located in an annular groove in the upper surface of the disk 15. A central circular contact member 21 is located in a circular recess at the center of the upper surface of the disk 14. The contact members 20 and 21 are held in place in the disk 15 by means of screws 22 and 23, respectively, which also serve as terminals for the attachment of a pair of wires 24, extending outwardly through a channel in the top surface of the cover plate 16 and between two of the feet 2 that support the annular base 1. See Fig. 2 . The outer ends of the wires 24 are adapted for connection to a suitable source of electrical energy. The periphery of the disk member 15 serves as the inner race for a ball bearing 25. The outer race of the ball bearing 25 has an upper portion formed on the inner periphery of the lower race member 11. A ring 26 encircles the disk member 15 and provides the lower portion of the outer race of the ball bearing 25. The ring 26 is held in place on the lower race member 11 by a plurality of screws 27. The upper race member 10 is annular and supports on its upper surface an insulating plate 30, which in turn supports a contact holding member 31 by means of screws 32. The contact holding member 31 supports a central spring contact 33, best seen in Fig. 5, and a semiannular contact 34. The spring contact 33 continuously engages the central contact 21 in the disk member 15. The semiannular contact 34 has its ends formed as spring contacts which continuously engage the annular contact 20. This arrangement of bearings 7 and 25, and the contact arrangement illustrated, allows the base 3 to be rotated as desired on the annular base 1, without limitation as to the extent of that rotation, and without stressing the wires 24 any more than the slight force necessary to turn the disk 14 in the bearing 25. The contacts 33 and 34 are connected by screws or rivets to terminals 35 and 36 respectively, which are in turn connected to wires 37 leading to a relay generally indicated at 38, located in a recess in the conical base 3. The contacts 20, 21, 33 and 34 preferably have their contacting surfaces gold plated to prevent oxidation, since the lamp may be allowed to remain in one angular position over a long period of time. The annular base 1 is shown as supported on six feet 2, each of which comprises an arch 2a Fig. 4 and terminates in flat under surfaces 2b at its outer and inner ends, which are spaced radially with respect to the center of the base 1. The upper surface of each foot 2 is conical and is provided with a channel 2c Fig. 7 which receives a portion of downwardly extending annular rib 1b on the lower periphery of the base member 1. The channel 2c is arcuate in form, as illustrated in Fig. 7, to conform to the annular configuration of the rib in the base 1. Each foot 2 is held in place on the base 1 by means of a screw 8. Supported on the conical base member 3 is the sectionalized column 4 including sections 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47. All of the sections 41 47 are hollow. Section 41 and the conical base member 3 are thick walled and massive, being preferably brass, so as to provide stability to the entire lamp structure. Sections 42 46 of the column are thin walled and may be constructed of a lighter metal such as aluminum. Section 47 is preferably of stainless steel. The lowest column section 41 has its lower end curved to conform to the conical surface of the conical base member 3. The outer edge of the bottom surface of the column section 41 is tangential to the periphery of the base, which extends outwardly beyond the annular base member 1 and thereby conceals the base member 1 from view from above. The column sections 41 47 are tapered slightly from a wide bottom to a narrower top. An armature bolt 50 extends through the hollow column section 41 and has a flange 50a at its upper end which is received in a recess 41a at the upper end of the column section 41. The upper end of the bolt 50 is threaded at its periphery to engage the lower end of column section 42. The lower end of the armature bolt 50 extends through an opening in the conical base 3 and is threaded to receive a nut 51, which engages a shoulder formed on the inside of base 3. The second section 42 of the column 4 has the outer surface of its lower end recessed to receive a brass ring 52. The ring 52 has a slip fit on the recessed end of the column section 42 and is provided for ornamental purposes. The inner periphery of the lower end of the column section 42 is threaded to the upper end of the armature bolt 50. Tightening of the nut 51 holds the column section 42 down tightly against the upper end of the column section 41, and holds the column section 41 tightly against the base member 3. A cable of wires 53 extends upwardly from the relay 38 through the hollow armature bolt 50 and through an insulating plate 54 and an insulating sleeve 55. The cable 53 may include as many wires as are required for the operation of relay 38. The plate 54 and sleeve 55 are bonded together and the sleeve 55 is also bonded to the lower end of a steel armature tube 56. The insulating sleeve 55 has a transverse wall 55a extending horizontally across it. The wall 55a is apertured to permit passage of the cable 53 which is coiled above the wall. The coiled cable provides means for maintaining the electrical connection to the lamp when the height of the lamp above the floor is adjusted, as described below. An arrangement of vertically sliding contacts might be substituted for the coiled cable. A nut 57 is threaded on the outside of the lower end of steel armature tube 56 and abuts against an inwardly extending flange 42a on the column section 42. The function of the nut 57 is described below in connection with Fig. 11. The upper end of the column section 42 abuts against the lower end of another column section 43. Those two column sections are provided with interfitting flanges, as shown at 58. Inside the steel armature tube 56, and spaced above the sleeve 55, there is provided another insulating sleeve 61, which encircles the coiled portion of the cable 53. The sleeve 61 is provided with a step 61a midway of its length and extends upwardly beyond the step. This upper end is threadedly connected to a bushing 62 of insulating material, whose upper end is threaded to the lower end of an aluminum tube 63. The upper end of the steel armature tube 56 is connected by a ring 64 to an upper steel armature tube 65 of somewhat smaller diameter. The ring 64 takes up the space between the tubes 56 and 65, and may be silver soldered to the two tubes. Alternatively, the two tubes and the connecting step formed by the ring 64 may be made in one integral piece. The column section 44 above the column section 43 is provided with a flange which interfits with a flange on the column section 43. A plastic bushing 66 slides between the tube 63 and the steel armature tube 65. The bushing 66 carries a key 67 which rides in a groove 63a formed in the tube 63 and in a slot 65a formed in the steel armature tube 65. The key 67 prevents relative rotation of the tubes 65 and 63. The upper end of the steel armature tube 53 is attached by silver soldering to a brass cap 70. The outer surface of the brass cap 70 is threaded and receives a threaded brass ring 71, which serves as a nut. The brass ring 71 at the upper end and the nut 57 at the lower end cooperate to hold tightly together the column sections 42, 43 and 44. The upper end of the cap 70 has an upwardly projecting flange 70a which extends within the lower end of the column section 45. Between the flange 70a and the tube 63, there is provided a friction ring 72 of suitable material, e.g., Teflon. The middle of the ring 72 is held frictionally against the tube 63 by a split ring clamp 73. The upper and lower ends of the ring 72, which are not so closely held by the split ring, frictionally engage the flange 70a. A spacer tube 74 extends upwardly from the ring 72 within the column section 45. Another friction ring 75 and a split ring clamp 76 are provided at the upper end of the spacer 74. The column section 45 has an inwardly projecting flange 45a which abuts the top of the friction ring 75. The upper end of column section 45 and the lower end of column section 46 have interfitting flanges. The tube 63 terminates at the upper end of the column section 46 in an upwardly projecting flange 63b. A hollow steel spindle 77 is fastened within the upper end of the tube 63 and projects upwardly beyond it. The column section 47 has its lower end threaded to the upper end of the steel spindle 77. The column section 47 has at its lower end a downwardly projecting flange 47a which encircles the flange 63b on the tube 63 and is encircled by a brass bushing 80, whose function is ornamental. The cable 53 extends upwardly beyond the upper end of the column section 46 and into the hollow column section 47 and the interior of the arm 5. Fig. 14 shows the arm 5 in cross section with the cable 53 within it. Figs. 13A, 13B and 13C show how the top of the column 4 is attached to the arm 5. The top of the column section 47 terminates in a generally hemispherical portion 47b connected to the principal part of the column section 47 by a short inverted conical portion 47c. The hemispherical portion 47b is hollowed out and is provided with a threaded aperture 47b in which a screw 48 may be inserted. The arm 5 is provided at its end with a beveled opening which fits against the hemispherical portion 47b and a curved shoulder 47e on the left side of the column section 47. The arm 5 is silver soldered to the hemispherical portion 47b and to the shoulder 47e. The inner portion of the arm 5 and of the shoulder 47e are rounded off, as shown at 49 in Fig. 13C, to facilitate threading of the cable 53 through the joint between the column 47 and the arm 5. The screw 48 is provided to permit access to that joint for facilitating the threading of the cable 53 through it. The first step in assembling the column is to insert the cable 53 into the sleeve 61 Figs. 4 and 8 , coiling the cable as shown. A sufficient length of cable should be left at both ends of the sleeve 61. The upper end of the cable is then fed through the nut 62 and tube 63 Figs. 8 12 . The nut 62 is threaded on to the upper end of the sleeve 61 and the tube 63 is threaded on to the nut 62 Figs. 8 and 9 . The bushing 66 Figs. 9 and 10 is then assembled on the tube 63. The armature 56, 64, 65 Figs. 8 11 is assembled and placed over the sleeve 61 and the bushing 66. The cap 70 is fastened to the top of the steel armature tube 65. The key 37 is then inserted through the slot 65a in the armature and into the groove 63a in the tube 53 Figs. 9 and 10 . The column sections 42, 43, 44 are now assembled over the armature tube 65. The sliding of the column section 44 over 67 locks that key in place, so that the tube 63 and the armature 65 are held against relative rotation. The threaded bushing 71 is attached to the cap 70 on armature 65. The nut 57 Fig. 4 is attached to the bottom of the column section 42. Bushing 71 and nut 57 are tightened, locking the sections 42, 43, 44 together. The friction ring 72 and clamp 73 Fig. 11 are now inserted over the tube 63 and inside the upper flange on the cap 70. The spacer 74, friction ring 75 and clamp 76 are now assembled with the column section 45, which is slid over the tube 63 until its lower end abuts the cap 70 and the lower end of spacer 64 abuts the friction ring 72. The cable 73 is now fed through the spindle 77 and the topmost column sections 46 and 47. The spindle 77 is slipped over the tube 63 and is fastened by screws 78. The column section 46 is now assembled over the tube 63, so that its bottom end abuts the upper end of the column section 45. The column section 46 is now assembled over the tube 63, so that its bottom end abuts the upper end of the column section 45. The column section 47 is threaded on to the sleeve 77. The fastenings at both ends of the steel spindle may be augmented by the use of a suitable bonding material. The assembly of the column is now complete from column section 42 up through section 47. The lower end of cable 53, below the chamber 51, is now fed through sleeve 55, plate 54, and the hollow armature bolt 50. Sleeve 55 and plate 54 are bonded in place, as shown. The ring 52 is slipped over the outer periphery of the bottom end of column section 42. The armature bolt 50 is threaded into the bottom end of the column section 42. The lower end of armature bolt 50 is inserted through the thick walled column section 41 and through the conical base 3. Armature bolt 50 is held in place by the nut 51, thereby holding the column assembly against the conical base 3. The nuts 51 and 57 may be rotated by means of a spanner wrench. The lamp 6 and arm 5 are shown in their lowest position. In order to raise the lamp 6, the column section 47 is grasped and moved upwardly, while holding any lower column section down. The spindle 77 and the tube 63 move upward with the section 47. The tube 63 is gripped by the friction rings 75 and 72 and is held in its new vertical position by those rings. If the upward movement of the tube 63 exceeds the length of the groove 63a, the key 67 moves upwardly with tube 63, with its outer end sliding in the slot 65a as required to accommodate the upward adjustment. These figures illustrate the lamp assembly 6 supported at the outer end of the arm 5. The arm 5 has an elbow at its outer end, supporting an upwardly extending pivot 81 on which turns a generally cylindrical lamp base 82 apertured to receive the pivot 81. The lamp base 82 is encircled by a partial sleeve 83 held in place by one or more screws 84. There is fixed to the sleeve 83 a lower light directing means including rings 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90. Rings 85 and 86 are incomplete, since they are interrupted by the sleeve 83. Rings 85, 86, 87 and 88 are fixed directly to the sleeve 83, as by silver solder. The rings 85 90 are held together by three ribs 91, 92, 93, which extend through suitable apertures in the rings and are attached thereto by silver solder. Each of the rings 85 90 has a horizontally extending flange at its upper end for stiffening purposes and a downwardly directed flange for light directing purposes. The light directing flanges of the two inner rings 89 and 90 extend vertically downward. The light directing flanges on the other rings flare outwardly and downwardly. The sleeve 83 supports a pair of outwardly extending trunnions 94 see Fig. 16 on which is journaled an upper light directing means Fig. 19 comprising an annular frustoconical outer cover 95, an annular reflector 96 within the cover 95, and an upper ring assembly 97 within the inner periphery of the cover 95. The cover 95 extends diagonally downward from its upper end and has its lower edge rolled over inwardly and upwardly to receive the lower edge of the reflector 96. The inner edge of the cover 95 ends in a downwardly directed flange 95a. The reflector 96 is not a complete annulus because of the lamp base 82 and sleeve 83. It may be readily inserted between the flange 95a and the rolled over edge of cover 95. The ring assembly 97, which is preferably constructed in one piece, as shown, comprises a set of six rings 101, 102, 103, 104, 105 and 106. The center piece of the ring assembly is shown at 107 and includes a ring similar to the rings 101 106 plus a downwardly projecting inverted hollow cone at the center. Each ring 101 107 comprises an upwardly extending flange as shown at 106a in the case of ring 106, and a laterally directed flange at its lower end, as shown at 106b, having a reflecting surface for directing the light downwardly. The rings 101 107 are connected by three ribs 110, 111, 112, which may be integral with the rings themselves. There is fastened to each of the upwardly directed flanges an upwardly projecting ring, as shown at 101a and 107a in Fig. 16. The upwardly projecting rings such as 101a and 107a may be made separately and shrunk onto the rings 101 107, as shown. Those upwardly extending flanges are desirably of a material having high heat conductivity such as copper or aluminum. The spaces between the rings allow for the venting of heated air upwardly from the lamp 113. The rings, such as 101 and 107a also serve to facilitate the dissipation of heat upwardly from the reflecting means 101 107. It is preferred to form the ring assembly 97 so that the upper outer corners of the rings such as 101a and 107a lie on the surface of a sphere, as best seen in Fig. 16. The upper ring assembly 97 snaps into the flange 95a on the cover 95. For that purpose, the outer end of each rib 110, 111 and 112 is provided with a tooth adapted to engage an opening in the flange 95a. The ring assembly 97 is sufficiently resilient so that it may be stretched or compressed, as required, in order to release one of the teeth so that the assembly may be removed. The rib 92 pivotally supports a latch member 114, which carries at its upper end a latch finger 115 to engage the outer end of the rib 110 which connects the rings 101 to 107. The rib 92 is provided with an upwardly extending portion having an aperture 92a. The latch member 114 is provided with a semicircular projection 114a see Figs. 17 18 , which fits within the aperture 92. The latch member 114 also has a finger 114b extending to the right from the projection 114a, as viewed in Fig. 16. The projection 114b is encircled by a spring 116 compressed between the latch member 114 and rib 92 at one side of the aperture 92a. When it becomes necessary to replace the lamp 113, the latch is released by pressing upwardly on the bottomn of the latch 114, thereby moving the finger 115 out from above the rib 110 and allowing the upper light directing assembly to be pivoted upwardly on the trunnions 94. The cover 95 is provided with suitable journals 117 to receive the trunnions 94. The pivot 81 allows the turning of the lamp assembly 6 through an angle of 180 , as illustrated in Fig. 3. Nevertheless, the center of gravity of the lamp assembly 6 is never more than about 30 from the diameter of the base which extends through the axis of the column 4. See the angles A and B in Fig. 3, which represent the maximum deflection of the center of the lamp assembly 6 in either direction from the diameter C. Thus, the base 3 and column 4 serve as counterweights for the lamp assembly 6 in all of its positions throughout its 180 rotation about the pivot 81. The supply of energy to the lamp 113 is controlled by a sensor 120 Figs. 3, 15 and 16 , which may be a proximity sensor or a touch sensitive sensor. Suitable circuits for controlling the supply of energy to the lamp 113 are provided in the relay 38, which is in turn controlled by the sensor 120. The sensor 120 is separated by insulators 121 from the other parts of the arm 5. The switching of the lamp is controlled only by touching or approaching the sensor 120. A suitable manually operable switch may be used in place of the sensor 120, in which case the relay 38 may either be used or eliminated. The tube 63 has a fixed angular relationship with respect to the arm 5 and the lamp assembly 6. The armature 65 has a fixed angular relationship with respect to the base 3 and column 4. The key 67 maintains the tube 63 and armature 65 fixed against relative rotation, and thereby holds the outer end of arm 5 substantially diametrically opposite the column 4, with respect to the center of the base 3. Therefore, the downward torque due to the mass of the column 4 and base 3 always balances the downward torque due to arm 5 and lamp assembly 6, and the stability of the lamp as a whole is maintained. The key 67 also functions to limit the vertical adjustment of the height of the lamp, by engaging an end of the groove 63a or slot 65a, or both, as the case may be. The modification shown in these figures is similar to that shown in Figs. 2 and 4. In Figs. 20 and 21, the ball bearing 25 of Figs. 2 and 4 has been eliminated. That ball bearing supported the disk assembly 14, which was rotatable in Figs. 3 and 4. In Figs. 20 and 21, the corresponding disk assembly is stationary and is fixed on a bridging member 125 mounted on the downwardly extending rib 1b on the base member 1, by means of screws 126. The bridging member in turn supports the disk assembly by suitable means, such as the screws 127 in Fig. 21.