# CLONING OF CDNA AND EXPRESSION OF MURINE INTERLEUKIN 3

## Claims
Verfahren zum molekularen Klonieren von Mäuse Interleukin 3 cDNA, mit den Schritten

## Description
The present invention relates to the molecular cloning of cDNA for murine interleukin 3, the use thereof, inter alia, as a hybridisation probe for eukaryotic interleukin 3, and for expression of biologically active murine interleukin 3. Interleukin 3 IL 3 is one of a number of colony stimulating factors which are known to regulate haematopoiesis. The colony stimulating factors are hormone like glycoproteins which are biologically active at very low levels. As they are produced in very minute quantities in vivo, they have proven to be very difficult to characterize by conventional biochemical methods. Also, due to their high level of activity, purification procedures have been hindered and although murine IL 3 derived from myelomonocytic leukaemia cell line WEHI 3 has been recently purified to apparent homogeneity Ihle, J.N. et al, J.Immun. 131,282 287 1983 , it was not necessarily clear at the time that the major protein in this preparation, from which the N terminal sequence was derived was, in fact, murine IL 3. IL 3 is produced by mitogen or antigen activated T lymphocytes and by a number of continuous cell lines. It may also be produced by bone marrow cells. IL 3 is involved in regulating the growth and differentiation of pluripotent stem cells leading to the production of all major blood cell types. It has a broad range of biological activity and appears to be identical with a number of other factors named on the basis of their biological activities. These include multi colony stimulating factor CSF , haematopoietic growth factor, burst promoting activity, P cell stimulating factor, mast cell growth factor, histamine producing cell stimulating factor and Thy l inducing activity. It would be desirable to characterise this protein, as well as the DNA coding for the protein, so that large quantities of the protein could be produced for further study, as it is considered that it could play an important role in bone marrow transplantation, inter alia for the treatment of leukaemia. As indicated above, murine IL 3, has only recently allegedly been purified to apparent homogeneity. However, as indicated above, the very high activity of the protein could lead to possible uncertainty about the N terminal sequence reported and also synthetic DNA probes based on this sequence would have a high level of degeneracy which would preclude or substantially inhibit the molecular cloning of the DNA for the protein via the N terminal sequence data. The present invention relates to the molecular cloning of cDNA for murine IL 3 and its use, inter alia, as a hybridisation probe and for expression of biologically active interleukin 3. The cDNA for murine IL 3 was obtained by a methodology as will be hereinafter described. According to the present invention there is provided a method for the molecular cloning of murine interleukin 3 cDNA, the method comprising In another aspect the present invention provides cDNA for murine interleukin 3 in substantially pure form, or a DNA sequence complementary thereto. In another embodiment the present invention provides a polynucleotide having a sequence equivalent to cDNA for murine interleukin 3 or part thereof as depicted in Figure 4 in substantially pure form. The invention further provides a double stranded DNA sequency, one strand of which is a polynucleotide as described above. In another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a hybridization probe useful for identifying interleukin 3 DNA or RNA in eukaryotic cells, the probe comprising a polynucleotide having at least about ten bases, the polynucleotide having a sequence corresponding to cDNA of murine interleukin 3, or the DNA complementary thereto, or the double stranded DNA thereof, or RNA having a sequency corresponding to the mRNA sequence of murine interleukin 3, and a label attached to the polynucleotide, having a sequence substnatially equivalent to cDNA for murine interleukin 3 or part thereof as depicted in Figure 4 in substantially pure form. Preferably said probe comprises the polynucleotide having a sequence corresponding to a cDNA of murine interleukin 3 or part thereof. Preferably the label is selected from a radioactive label or biotin. Preferably the polynucleotide comprises at least fifteen bases. In a further aspect of the present invention there is provided a method for identifying interleukin 3 DNA or RNA in eukaryotic cells or tissue sections or extracts thereof characterised in that the probe of the present invention is used. A further aspect of the present invention is that a method for producing biologically active murine interleukin 3 or part thereof having an amino acid sequence substantially as depicted in Figure 4, the method comprising The present invention also provides murine IL 3 in substantially pure form as a fusion protein or as a non fusion protein. These proteins have N terminal amino acids as depicted in Figure 8 of the accompanying drawings. Although these proteins are not glycosylated they are still biologically active. The invention will be further described by reference to the following drawings wherein The invention will be further described also, with reference to the following methodology. Two different murine cell lines were compared as sources of IL 3 mRNA. The myelomonocytic line WEHI 3 is known to produce IL 3 constitutively Lee, J.C., Hapel, A.J. Ihle, J.N., J. Immun. 128, 2393 2398 1982 whereas the lymphoma line EL 4 produces IL 3 after stimulation with phorbol myristate acetate PMA Ihle, J.N., Rebar, L., Keller, J., Lee, J.C. Hapel, A.J. Immun. Rev. 63, 5 32 1982 . Messenger RNA was prepared from both cell lines using the guanidine thiocyanate method McCandliss, R., Sloma, A Pestka, S. Meth. Enzym. 79, 51 59 1981 Chirgwin, J.M., Przybyla, A.E., MacDonald, R.J. Rutter, W.J., Biochemistry 18, 5294 5299 1979 and attempts were made to translate the mRNAs by microinjection into X.laevis oocytes Sloma, A., McCandliss, R. Pestka, S. Meth. Enzym. 79, 68 71 1981 . The translates were assayed for biologically active IL 3 using the IL 3 dependent cell line 32D c1 23 Ihle, J.N. et al. J. Immun. 129, 1377 1383 1982 . It was found that mRNA from EL 4 could be translated in the oocytes to give readily detectable levels of IL 3 after 48 h incubation as shown in Table 1. Most of the detectable activity was present in the incubation medium indicating that the oocytes were secreting mature IL 3. Assays of oocyte extracts showed that they were inhibitory. mRNA from WEHI 3 cells regularly gave higher levels of IL 3 in the translation assays than preparations from EL 4 Table 1 , in keeping with the higher levels of IL 3 found in culture supernatants of the WEHI 3 cell line data not shown . EL 4 cells were grown to a cell density of 10⁶ per ml in spinner cultures in DMEM medium supplemented with 10 fetal calf serum. The cells were collected by centrifugation, resuspended in serum free medium containing 100 ng ml ¹ PMA and subcultured into 150cm² culture flasks at 5 x 10⁸ cells per flask. The cells were incubated for 10 h before collection. WEHI 3 cells were grown to a density of 10⁶ per ml in RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 10 fetal calf serum and collected by centrifugation. Afterwards, both cell pellets were resuspended in 0.1 volume of serum free medium and mRNA was prepared by the guanidine thiocyanate CsCl method McCandliss, R., Sloma, A. Pestka, S. Meth. Enzym. 79, 51 59 1981 Chirgwin, J.M., Przybyla, A.E., MacDonald, R.J. Rutter, W.J., Biochemistry 18, 5294 5299 1979 . The mRNAs were further purified by chromatography on oligo dT cellulose Gray, P.W. et al, Nature 295, 503 508 1982 and after ethanol precipitation, were resuspended in buffer 10mM Tris HCl, 0.1mM EDTA, pH 7.5 at a concentration of lugul ¹. The mRNAs were injected into 15 X. laevis oocytes 50nl per oocyte according to standard methods Sloma, A., McCandliss, R. Pestka, S. Meth. Enzym. 79, 68 71 1981 . After incubation, the medium was withdrawn and an extract of the oocytes prepared Sloma, A., McCandliss, R. Pestka, S. Meth. Enzym. 79, 68 71 1981 . The incubation medium, the oocyte extract and a mixture of the two were assayed for IL 3 activity using the IL 3 dependent cell line 32D c1 23 Ihle, J.N. et al, J. Immun. 129, 1377 1383 1982 according to the methods described previously, measuring incorporation of ³H thymidine as an index of cell growth. IL 3 mRNA from WEHI 3 was fractionated on a sucrose density gradient and the fractions assayed by oocyte translation Fig. 1 . The major peak of activity sedimented at 12S. This procedure resulted in 10 20 fold purification of the IL 3 mRNA. RNA from the peak fractions was used as a template to synthesize double stranded cDNA using the method of Land et al Land, H., Grez, M., Hauser, H., Lindenmaier, W. Schutz, G., Nucleic Acids Res. 9, 2251 2266 1981 . The resultant cDNA was inserted into pAT153 by G C tailing Michelson, A.M. Orkin, S.H., J. Biol. Chem. 257, 14773 14782 1982 and the cDNA library transformed into strain HB101. Approximately 5,000 individual clones were isolated. Of a small sample tested, 92 were ampicillin sensitive indicating the presence of cDNA inserts in the majority of the clones. Since the cDNA was not size fractionated prior to cloning, the sizes of inserts in the cDNA library varied from about 200 to 1,000 base pairs bp . It was expected that even the short inserts would give satisfactory results in the mRNA hybridization translation assay see below . Clones were grown in pools of 10 and DNA prepared by the method of Holmes and Quigley Holmes, D.E. Quigley, M., Anal. Biochem. 114, 193 197 1981 . The plasmids were converted to a linear form with BamHI restriction endonuclease, contaminating RNA was destroyed by alkaline hydrolysis and the DNA was bound to nitrocellulose filters. The filter bound DNA was hybridized with WEHI 3 mRNA and bound mRNA eluted and translated in oocytes. One positive pool of 10 clones was detected. The activity observed in translates derived from the positive pool was quite low but was consistently above the background and the values of the other clone pools. DNA was therefore prepared from the individual clones of the pool and the mRNA hybridization translation assay repeated. One of the clones pILM1 was clearly positive Table 2 . The IL 3 activity detected showed the same titration curve as oocyte translates of WEHI 3 mRNA Fig. 2 . The cDNA insert in pILM1 was quite short 139 bp excluding the G C tails . It was subcÌoned into the SmaI site of M13mp8 after shortening the G C tails with Bal 31 exonuclease. The DNA sequence was determined on both strands using the chain termination method Sanger, F., Nicklen, S. Coulson, A.R. Proc. Natl. Acad Sci. U.S.A. 74, 5463 5467 1977 Sanger, F., Coulson, A.R., Hong, G.F., Hill, D.F. Petersen, G.B., J. Molec. Biol. 162, 729 773 1982 . An oligonucleotide primer corresponding to nucleotides 92 112 of this cDNA insert was synthesized Tanaka, T. Letsinger, R.L., Nucleic Acids Res. 10, 3249 3260 1982 McBride, L.J. Caruthers, M.H., Tetrahedron Lett. 24, 245 248 1983 and labelled using ³²P dATP and polynucleotide kinase Goodman, H.M. MacDonald, R.J., Meth. Enzym. 68, 75 90 1979 . The labelled probe was used to examine the remaining clones in the cDNA library Grunstein, M. Hogness, D.S. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 72, 3961 3965 1975 Wallace, R.B. et al, Nucleic Acids Res. 6, 3543 3557 1979 . No other clones containing this sequence were detected. To isolate a long clone encoding IL 3, a further cDNA library was prepared, but in this case the double stranded cDNA was size fractionated using Sepharose CL 4B to enrich for cDNA fragments larger than 500bp. The resulting cDNA was inserted into pAT153 by G C tailing and transformed into HB101. The labelled oligonucleotide probe described above was used to identify a longer cDNA clone pILM3 which was shown by DNA sequencing to carry an insert of 629bp excluding the G C tails. The DNA sequence of clone pILM3 was determined on both strands using the chain termination method Sanger, F., Nicklen, S. Coulson, A.R., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 74, 5463 5467 1977 Sanger, F., Coulson, A.R., Hong, G.F., Hill, D.F. Petersen, G.B., J. Molec. Biol. 162, 729 773 1982 after subcloning into M13mp8 and 9. The sequencing strategy is in Fig. 3. The subcloning was complicated by the fact that one of the PstI sites flanking the cDNA insert had been lost due to exonucleolytic removal of one nucleotide during the G tailing of the vector. Clone pILM3 was found to extend beyond pILM1 at the 3 end only, both clones possessing the same 5 end. The DNA sequence is shown in Figure 4 and shows a single large open reading frame. Assuming that the first ATG from the 5 end serves as the initiation codon, the reading frame extends from nucleotides 28 525 inclusive and specifies a polypeptide of 166 amino acids. The 5 untranslated region is therefore quite short 27bp . The method of Land et al Land, H., Grez, M., Hauser, H., Lindenmaier, W. Schutz, G., Nucleic Acids Res. 9, 2251 2266 1981 , which was used to generate the cDNA clones, is designed to produce a high proportion of cDNA clones with complete 5 termini. Since both cDNA clones isolated in the course of this work had the same 5 end, it is possible that pILM3 carries a close to full length copy of the 5 untranslated region of IL 3 mRNA. Clone pILM3, however, does not extend to the 3 end of the IL 3 mRNA and is probably missing a significant portion of the 3 untranslated region. The presence of the complete coding sequence for IL 3 is the important feature of the present invention. The reading frame specifies a protein of MW 18,540 as depicted by the single letter amino acid notation in Figure 4. The strongly hydrophobic stretch of 9 amino acids residues 13 21 is indicative of the presence of a signal peptide. In the cases studied to date, the last residue of the signal sequence is invariably an amino acid with a small uncharged side chain. Analysis of the signal peptide region suggests a number of potential sites for cleavage by the signal peptidase. Application of the empirical rules proposed by Von Heijne Von Heijne, G,Eur. J. Biochem. 133, 17 21 1983 predicts the end of the signal peptide at residue 27 Ala . This potential cleavage site is shown with an arrow in Fig. 4. The published N terminal amino acid sequence of murine IL 3 Ihle, J.N., Contemp. Topics Molec. Immun. in the press is in complete agreement with the reading frame and extends from residues 33 Asp to 47 Val . It seems most unlikely that the signal peptide would end at residue 32 Arg and this suggests that the murine IL 3 isolated from the WEHI 3 cell line has been further processed. The protein sequence of mature processed IL 3 indicates a MW of 15,102 with four potential N glycosylation sites Asn X Ser or Asn X Thr . The four sites are underlined in Fig. 4. One of these is in the region of the published N terminal sequence and glycosylation at this site would explain the inability to identify the Asn residue during automated Edman degradation. When the amino acid composition figures for murine IL 3 are normalized to the size predicted by the DNA sequence they give good agreement with the predicted composition See Table 3 below . These methods enable production of large quantities of IL 3 by prokaryotic cells. The IL 3 produced is not glycosylated but still demonstrates high biological activity. The amino acid sequence of murine IL 3 was compared with the sequences of human interleukin 2 and human immune interferon Gray, P.W. et al., Nature 295, 503 508 1982 both of which are also produced by antigen activated T lymphocytes. No significant sequence homology was detected. Although human IL 2 is of very similar size to IL 3 it carries no potential sites for N glycosylation and does not appear closely related. High mol. wt. DNA was prepared from mouse liver or cultured cells by gentle homogenization and treatment with Sarkosyl and proteinase K followed by equilibrium centrifugation in CsCl ethidium bromide gradients. DNA fragments were isolated by using electrophoresis on low melting point agarose gels Wieslander, L. 1979 Anal. Biochem, Agarose gel electrophoresis and transfer of DNA to nitrocellulose were performed by standard methods Maniatis Southern hybridization prehybridizaton 4h and hybridization 18h at 65 in 6xSSc, 5x Denhardt s solution Denhardt. 1966 . 100 ug ml sonicated, denatured salmon sperm DNA. 0.5 w v SDS and 10mM EDTA washing. 10 min at room temperature and 60 min at 65 in 2xSSC. Filter hybridization assays of DNA samples prehybridization 4 6h and hybridization 18h as for Southern hybridization except that 5xSSC and 50mM sodium phosphate buffer, pH 6.8 replaced the 6xSSC, and the 1mM ATP and 1mM sodium pyrophosphate were included washing. 20 min at room temperature in 2 changes of 2xSSC, 0.5 SDS and then 120 min at 65 in 0.1xSSC, 0.5 SDS followed by a further 30 min. under the same conditions in fresh buffer. Plaque hybridization prehybridization 5h and hybridization 16h at 42 in 50 v v formamide, 5xSSPE. 5x Denhardt s solution. 100 ug ml sonicated, denatured salmon sperm DNA, 0.1 w v SDS, 1mMATP and 1mM sodium pyrophosphate washing, 20 30 min at room temperature in 4 changes of 2xSSC, 0.1 SDS then 3h at 67 in 2 changes of 1xSSC, 0.1 SDS. Hybridization in situ in dried agarose gels was performed by a modification of published methods. Briefly, agarose gels following electrophoresis of DNA fragments were soaked in 1mM MgSO₄ 0.5 ug ml ethidium bromide and then dried between sheets of cellophane on a commercial gel dryer at 60 2h . The gel cellophane sandwich was wetted with water, and the separated gel was incubated for 20 min in 0.5N NaOH, 1 M NaCl then neutralized for 20 min in 0.5 M Tris HCl pH 7.4, 1 M NaCl. The gel was then added directly to reserved hybridization liquid from the previous plaque screening and hybridization was allowed to proceed at 42 for 16h. Washing was for 10 min at room temperature in 2 changes of 2xSSC, 0.5 SDS, for 60 min at 60 in 4 changes of 2xSSV, 0.1 SDS, and then for 60 min at 60 in 4 changes of 0.1xSSC, 0.1 SDS. All hybridization and washing of filters or dried gels at elevated temperatures was performed with continual agitation. Autoradiography was performed using Kodak XAR 5 or Fuji RX film at 70 with intensifying screens. Probes were prepared by primed synthesis using the 467 bp To assess the number of copies of the IL 3 gene present in the murine genome, DNA from different mouse strains was digested with Genomic DNA from several cultured murine cell lines was examined by Southern hybridization. WEHI 3 D , WEHI 3 D and A4A showed a band at 9kb as for Balb c and an additional band, of similar intensity, at 4kb. B6, the original cell line from which the WEHI lines were derived, had a single band 9kb. Genomic DNA from Balb c liver was digested to completion with Eight positive plaques were obtained from a total of 70,00 plaques. Six of these were plaque purified and phage DNA minipreparations were prepared and subjected to restriction endonuclease analysis. All six lambda clones contained an 8.6 kb To facilitate further work, the 8.6 kb insert from one of the recombinant phages was recloned into the The nucleotide sequence of a 3490 bp region of the 3.7 kb The IL 3 gene is made up of five exons interrupted by four introns. This arrangement is shown schematically in Figure 9 and is indicated in Figure 10. The sequence of the five exons is in complete agreement with our previously determined cDNA sequence. In particular, nucleotide 2302 is A Figure 10 as is the corresponding nucleotide 463 in the cDNA. Yokota Transcription of the IL 3 gene almost certainly begins at nucleotide 494 indicated in Figure 10. Several cDNA clones obtained by two different groups by methods likely to preserve the 5 terminus of the mRNA intact terminate at this position. A potential TATA box, is located upstream from the start of transcription Figure 10 . The distance between the TATA sequence and the start of transcription is 27 nucleotides, similar to the mean distance observed for eukaryotic promoters. Interleukin 3 was expressed in This expression clone was designed to express a protein consisting of 10 amino acids of B galactosidase fused to the IL 3 gene coding from Arginine, amino acid 32, to the end of the gene see Figure 8 . Approximately 5 ug of pILM3 DNA was digested with The majority of clones had 450bp This expression clone was designed to express a protein consisting of 9 amino acids of B galactosidase fused to IL 3 gene coding from Alanine, amino acid 27, to the end of the gene see Figure 8 . Approximately 5 ug of pILM3 DNA was digested with Cultures of BTA611, BTA610, pUC8 and pUC9 in NB42 were incubated at 37 C for 16 hours in 50 mls L broth and 50 ug ml Ampicillin. The cell pellets were lysed by sonication and the supernatant from each culture assayed for biologically active IL 3 using the IL 3 dependent cell line 32D c1 23, Ihle. J.N. This expression clone was designed to express mature IL 3 from Alanine at amino acid 27 to the end of the gene, under the control of the tac promoter Amann ptac12 was digested with The cDNA insert encoding IL 3 was excised from the plasmid pILM3, made blunt ended, and inserted into the SV40 shuttle vector pSV2neo³⁷ at the unique This method enables the production of IL 3 by mammalian cells.