# Virtual phase buried channel CCD.

## Abstract
A virtual phase, buried channel CCD 51 with the usual metal gate oxide structure replaced by a reverse biased junction 57 59 possibly a heterojunction or Schottky barrier is disclosed. Such gate substitution for a standard three phase or multiphase CCD and other devices compatibly fabricated with such gate are also disclosed.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A gate structure for a buried channel semiconductor device, comprising a a semiconductor channel barrier on said buried channel, said channel barrier and said buried channel of opposite doping. types and b a semiconductor gate region on said channel barrier, said gate region and said channel barrier of opposite do ing tvpes. 2. The gate structure of Claim 1, wherein a the thickness and doping level of said channel barrier are characterized by substantiallv full depletion of said channel barrier during portions of the operation of said device in which said buried channel is depleted except for siqnal charge and said gate region is clocked. 3. A virtual phase, buried channel charqe coupled device cell, comprising a a substrate laver of a first semiconductor material doped a first type b a buried channel layer of a second semiconductor material on said substrate layer and doped a type opposite said first type c a virtual gate region of a third semiconductor material on said buried channel layer and doped a first type d a channel barrier reqion of a fourth semiconductor material. on said buried channel layer and doped a first type e a clocked gate region of a fifth semiconductor material on said channel barrier region and doped a type opposite said first type and f implants in said buried channel layer beneath said virtual gate region and in said channel barrier region, said implants of a type and position so that clocking said clocked gate region will intermittently form a sequentially decreasing series of energy levels for charge carriers in said buried channel layer. 4. The cell of claim 3, wherein a said first, second, third, fourth, and fifth semiconductor materials are silicon. 5. A semiconductor device cell, comprising a a buried channel layer of a semiconductor of first conductivity type b a first region on said buried channel layer, said first region of a semiconductro of a conductivity type opposite said first tvpe c a second region on said buried channel layer, said second region near but spaced apart from said first region, and said second region substantially of material different from said first region and 8 said first and second reqions characterized bv a lack of qate insulator. The cell of claim 5, wherein a said second region includes material forming aSchottky barrier with said buried channel layer. 7. The cell of claim 5, wherein a said second region includes a first layer of a semiconductor on said buried channel layer, said first layer of a conductivity. type opposite said first type, and a second layer of a semiconductor on said first laver, and second aver of a conductivitv of said first tvpe. 8. The cell of claim 7, wherein a said buried channel layer is n tyo silicon b said first layer is p type silicon and c said second laver is n tvpe silicon. 9. A process for forminq a silicon buried channel charge coupled device cell with a virtual gate and a clocked sate and with delectable energy Revel transition profile between the virtual well and the crocked well, comprising the steps of ass patterning a layer of nitride and overlvinq oxide on a substrate in which a buried channel has been formed b implanting to form the virtual gate region in the portion of the substrate not protected by the patterned nitride and oxide c etching the nitride to undercut it a selected amount d removing the oxide oyerlvinq the nitride e oxidizing the substrate, thereby covering the virtual gate reqion and the undercut exposed portion of the substrate f. removing the nitride and g implanting the clocked gate region. 10. A process for fabrication on a substrate of semiconductor devices without insulated qates, comprising the steps of a forminq a buried channel layer on said substrate, said buried channel laver doped a first type rbl patterning a first removable doping material barrier on said buried channel layer, said pattern to define virtual qates of charge coupled cells, qates of junction field effect transistors, and bases and emitters of vertical bipolar transistors c dodging the surface portion of said buried channel layer which is not protected by said first barrier a typ opposite said first type, thereby forming virtual qates of charge coupled cells, qates of junction field effect transistors, and bases of vertical bipolar transistors d formina an insulating layer on said doped surface portion e opening holes in said insulatinq layer for gate contacts of iunction.field effect transistors and base contacts and emitter regions and contacts of vertical bipolar transistors f forminq emitter regions in selected ones of said holes q removing said first barrier h patterninq a second barrier to define clocked. qates of charge coupled cells i Aoping i doping the surface portion of said buried channel layer which is not protected by either said insulating waver or said second barrier of a type opposite said first type, thereby forminq channel barriers for charge coupled cells 1 removing said second barrier and k doping the unprotected surface portion of said buried channel layer and said channel barriers a first type, thereby forming clocked qates on said channel barriers and sources and drains for junction field effect transistors and collectors for vertical bipolar transistors.

## Description
BACKGROUND OF THE. INVENTION This invention relates to semiconductor charge transfer devices, and, more particularly, to virtual phase, buried channel charge coupled devices. Charge transfer devices including charge coupled devices CCDs are well known monolithic semiconductor devices and are used in various applications such as shift registers, imagers, infrared detectors, memories, etc. For example,Wolfe and Zissis, Eds, The Infrared Handbook 1978 , devote chapter 12 to CCDs and with emphasis on their use in infrared signal processing. The traditional three phase CCD is an arrav of adjacent cells each cell, in essence, being a MIS capacitor Åand operates by tying the gates of every third cell together so that varying clocking the gate voltages in three phases transfers charge packets from cell to adjacent cell. This traditional CCD would be basically formed by covering a p tvDe substrate with oxide and patterning metal gates on the oxide.In such a device electrons are transferred in the substrate essentially along the interface with the oxide, which leads to poor transfer efficiency due to traps at the interface. Further, such devices have problems including breakdown of the gate oxide, complicated gate connections, blooming a charge packet larger than the capacity of a cell will overflow into adjacent cells , etc. The problem of interface traps induced low transfer efficiency can be solved by using a buried channel CCD structure BCCD in which the charge packets are confined to and flow in a channel that lies in the substrate beneath the interface. Thus.the charge packets are held away from the interface traps and do not exhibit low charqe transfer efficiencv. However, this arrangement increases dark current generation at the interface. A BCCD can be fabricated by forming an n type layer on the p tvDe substrate and then covering it with an oxide layer and patterned metal gates on the oxide. The n type layer is thin and is fully depleted by the gate clocking action and bias applied to an n tvpe junction attached to the end of the channel.The conduction and valence energv band diagram for the device shows the bands that are bent ana have a minimum in the n type layer. This conduction band minimum is the location where the charge packets accumulate and are transferred from cell to cell by variations in the gate bias voltages changing the relative energy band minima between cells. For example, see, Sze,Physics of Semiconductor Devices 2d Ed 1980 PD 423 427. A BCCD with the standard metal gate oxide replaced by a p type gate region to form a p n junction with the n type channel layer is also known see, for example, E. Wolsheimer and M. K1ee fsir a, Experimental Results on Junction Chare CouDled Devices, 29 IEEE Trans. Elec. Dev. 1930 1982 . In such a junction BCCD, the control of the energy bands in the buried channel is accomplished bv varying the reverse bias on the p n junction. But such a junction BCCD may have large leakage currents between the adjacent p type gate regions and also has difficulty in achieving smooth transitions of the buried channel potential energy levels between cells. The Droblems associated with the complicated qate structure of such three phase BCCDs are overcome with the virtual phase CCD as described in Hynecek, U.S. Patent No.4,229,752. A virtual phase CCD needs onlv a single set of gates and a single clockinq bias and operates on the principle of selectively doping different reqions of each cell so that clocking the qate affects only the enerqy bands in a portion of each cell and, indeed, drives them from below to above the fixed energv bands in the remainder of each cell. vhe doDed region that shields this remainder of a cell from the effect of the clock bias of the gate voltaqe is normally called the virtual gate . However, all of the prior art devices still suffer from problems of oxide breakdown, blooming, leakage currents, and nonsmooth ce 1 to cell potential energy profile transitions. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION A preferred embodiment of the present invention provides a BCCD device with cells built incortorating a p type substrate covered by an n type laver which will include the buried channel which in turn is covered by a p tyDe laver channel barrier in which an n type gate region is formed.Additional implants in the p type channel barrier complete the cell by forming the virtual barrier and well the n type gate defines the clocked well and clocked barrier regions these regions are distinguished from each other by the additional implant in the p type laver and the virtual well and virtual barrier regions again these regions are distinguished from each other by the additional implant in the p tvDe laver make up the remainder of the cell.This first preferred embodiment BCCD cell oPerates in the same manner as a standard virtual phase, buried channel CCD withMOS gates the MOS gate has essentially been replaced by a re v e r s e b i a s e d n D j u n c t i o n Another second preferred embodiment SCCD cell has an n type buried channel laver on a p type substrate with a p type virtual qate region on the buried channel separated from a p type channel barrier region with an n type clocked sate subregion on the buried channel. Implants in the buried channel and the channel barrier distinguish the virtual barrier and well and the clocked barrier and well, respectively. A third preferred embodiment uses a Schottky barrier in place of the reverse biased n p junction clocked gate of the second preferred embodiment.And a fourth preferred embodiment employs the same structure as the first two Dreferred embodiments but uses a different material for the n tvpe gate so that a heterodunction is formed which Permit. adjustment of infrared response when the cell is used as a photosite. Further preferred embodiments include a standard, multiphase BCCD with the reverse biased n p junction gates separated by oxide with underlying p type reqions forming virtual wells, a memory cell with the reverse biased n p junction as a transfer region, and a charge detector includinq junction field effect and vertical bipolar transistors. All of these preferred embodiments overcome the problems of breakdown of the qate oxide bv eliminating the necessity for the oxide. Further, all of these embodiments have a built in anti blooming capability because overflow charge will automatically be drained by the reverse biased junction or the Schottky barrier junction. These preferred embodiments also solve the problems of leakage between gates and nonsmooth transitions of conduction energy band levels between cells. And the ability to fabricate both the CCD cells and the charge detector output node for the CCD , including transistors, from essentially the same process steps allows for simDlicity and process control. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS FIG. 1 is a schematic cross section of a standard MOS virtual phase buried channel CCD FIG. 2 shows the conduction and valence bands for the device of FIG. 1 FIG. 3 is a schematic cross section of a first preferred embodiment CCD with reversed bias iunction gates FIG. 4 shows the doping profiles for the device of FIG.3 FIG. 5 shows the conduction and valence bands for the device of FIG. 3 FIG. fi shows the fabrication steps for making the device of FIG. 3 FIG. 7 shows a second preferred embodiment CCD withSchottky junction gates FIG. 8 shows the conduction and valence bands for the device of FIG. 7 FIG. 9 shows the device of FIG. 3 adapted to a mult phase CUT FIG. 10 shows a preferred embodiment random access memory cell FIG. 11 is a schematic cross section of a preferred embodiment BCCD output node FIG. 12 is a schematic cross section of a preferred embodiment junction field effect transistor and FIG. 13 is a schematic cross section of a preferred embodiment vertical bipolar transistor. DF.trAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMEN S In order to understand the preferred embodiments and their operation, we first. consider the standard virtual phase, buried channel CCD and its operation. Turning first to the upper portion. of FIG. 1, we see that the standard virtual phase BCCD, generally designated 11, includes a p type silicon. substrate 13,. a n type laver 15 on substrate 13, p type reqions 17 formed in the upper portion of layer 14, oxide layer 19, gate 21 which may be metallization, and donor implants 23, 24 and 25 in the n type layer 15.The operation of device 11 will be described below and is illustrated bv the buried channel potential energy profile hown in the lower portion of FIG. 1 directly below the corresponding regions of device 11. These regions are given the following names p type regions 17 are called virtual qates or virtual electrodes , the portion of laver 15 below both virtual gate 17 and donor implant 25 is called the virtual well, the portion of layer 1 below virtual gate 17 but not below donor implant 25 is called the virtual barrier, the portion of layer 15 not below virtual qate 17 but below donor implant 93 is called the clocked well and the portion of layer 15 below neither virtual gate 17 nor donor implant 23 is called the clocked barrier. FIGS 2a d illustrate the conduction and valence energy bands and show the buried channel feature. In particular, from left to right in FIG. 2a shows the bands as a function of distance measured from the metal gate vertically downwards through the clocked barrier region and with the gate 21 at about approximatelv the same bias as substrate 13. This band bending arises from the depletion of n tvpe layer 19, which is relatively thin. The cuvature of the bands shown in FIG. 2a shows the existence of the buried channel. If a free electron were introduced into laver 15, then it would fall to the minimum of the conduction band, which is located away from the oxide 19 silicon interface. FIG. 2b shows the change in the bands of FIG. 2a upon asslication of a negative bias to qate 21. In essence, thePotential energy at the buried channel the minimum of the conduction band is raised for electrons . FIG. 2c shows the corressonding band diagram for the virtual barrier region. FIG. 2d compares the conduction band for the clocked well region with the conduction band for the clocked barrier reqion, the valance bands being omitted for simplicitv. The lower band is for the clocked well recion and has a lower minimum due to the positive donor charge 3, which is also illustrated in FIG. 2d.Analogously, the energy bands for the virtual well region are similar to those of FIG. 2c, except that the donor charge 25 depresss the minimum as in FIG. 2d. The bands shown in FIG. 2c do not move up and down with a change in the bias of gate 21 because virtual gates 17 are connected to the p type channel stops not shown in FIG. but which run parallel to the buried channel and which are connected to the p type substrate 13 and thus are effectively dinned at the bias of substrate 13. The operation of device 11 can now be explained. Turning to the lower portion of FIG. 1, the energy levels for an electron in the buried channel conduction band minimum are shown for the various regions of device 11 and for gate 21 being both approximately at substrate 13 bias and at a neqative bias with respect to substrate 13. Starting with an electron in the virtual barrier region, the operation is as follows. First the electron falls into the virtual well region, this is shown diagramaticallv by arrow 27 in the energy level diaqram part of FIG. 1.Next, if gate 21 is turned on negative with respect to substrate 13 , then the electron will remain in the virtual well because the enerqy levels of both adiasent regions are hiqher, the enerqv level of the clocked barrier in this state is denoted 29 in FIG. 1.When the aate 21 is turned off bias approximately equal to substrate bias 13 then the energv level of the clocked barrier drops to the position 31 and the electron passes from the virtual well into the clocked barrier as illustrated by arrow 33 in FIG. 1. The electron continues and falls into the clocked well 35 as shown by arrow 37. The electron remains in the clocked well until gate 21 is turned on at which time the energy levels of the clocked barrier and clock wells both ri as shown by arrow 39 in FIG. 1. Once the energy level of the clocked well increases to qreater than that of virtual barrier level 41, the electron falls out of the clocked well and into the virtual barrier as shown by arrow 43.Thus the electron is back in the virtual barrier region but in the cell adjacent the starting cell of device 11. Movement of the electron to further cells is just a repeat of the same steps and clocking of the gate 21. With the operation of the virtual phase device 11 now in mind, we can describe the structure in operation of the preferred embodiments of the Present invention. The upper portion of FIG. 3 shows a schematic cross section of some cells of first preferred embodiment RCCD device 51. Device 51 includes a liqhtly doped lElS acceptors cm3 p tvpe substrate 53, n tvpe laver 55 with a dopina level of approximately SElh and a thickness of approximately 370nm, c type layer 57 with dosing of approximately 8 and a thickness of approximately 250nm, n type layer 59 of doping approximately lie18 and a thickness of approximately 120nm, oxide regions 61, virtual gates 3 which are D type and extend to the channel stops as previously described in device 11 and will be further described below, donor implants 65 in layer 55 and covering aPoroximately half of the bottom side of virtual gates 63, and acceptor implants 67 in regions 57 and covering aDproximatelv one half but not necessarily of the underside of the regions 59. Note that the extent of implants 65 and 67 illustrated as approximatelv one half of regions 63 and 50, respectively could be varied to advantage in certain device applications.FIG. 4 shows the dopinq profile and is a graph of the logarithm of the doping concentration plotted horizontally versus the distance from the top of device 51 at reqion 59 and plotted vertically downwards. These regions have the following self explanatory names region 59 is the qate, region 57 the channel barrier, region 55 the buried channel, and region 53 the substrate. If a positive bias with respect to substrate 53 is applied to qate 59, then the enerqy bands appear as in FIG.5a d. In particular, FIG. Sa shows the bands for gate 59 being about 5 volts with respect to substrate 53 note that the depletion extends far into substrate 53 due to its light doping. Of course, buried channel 55 and channel barrier 57 are fully depleted it is not necessary that the channel barrier is depleted of holes for all gate bias conditions , whereas gate 9 is heavily doped and only partially depleted. The form of enerqy bands in FIG. 5a is similar to that of FIG. Za. If the bias on gate 59 is varied relative to substrate 53, then the bands of FIG. 5a move up and down analogously with the movement of the bands illustrated inFIGS. 2a and 2b when the gate 21 bias of device 11 is varied. FIG. 5b shows the enerqy bands under the virtual gate 63 these are analogous with the bands of FIG. 2c, and as with virtual gate 17, virtual gate 63 is connected to the channel stops and thus bands are invariant as the bias on clocked gate 59 is varied. Donor implants 5 and acceptor implants 07 both affect the energy bands in a manner analoqous to the donor imolants 23 and 25 in device 11 namely, the bands are shifted a fixed amount near the minimum. Consecuently, device 51 has the same definition of the buried channel as the minimum of the energy bands and the same Dartitioning of a cell into a clocked barrier reqion, a clocked well reqion, a virtual barrier region, and a virtual well reqion as device 11.Thus, device 51 will operate in a same manner as device 11. This operation is illustrated in the lower portion of FIG. 3 which shows the energy levels at the conduction band minimum and flow of electrons in the manner of the lower portion of FIG. 1. Although the operation of device 51 is analogous to the operation of device 1,1, the. advantages of device 51 include the elimination of the oxide 1 of device 11. No oxide breakdown under gate bias can occur in device 51 because the only oxide 61 is for isolation of the busses for the clocked qates 59 and can be made relatively thick. Also, the reverse bias of the junction formed by clocked qate 59 and channel barrier region 57 acts as a drain for overflow charge associated with blooming thus, as an electron charge packet in a cell is increased in size the presence of charge raises and flattens the minimum in the energy bands both in device 11 and in device 51 , and a portion of the charge packet will overflow into adjacent cells in device 11.In contrast, overflow charqe from a large charge packet will spill over into channel barrier region 57 and then into clock gate 59 rather into an adjacent cell in device 51 this is not possible in device 11 because the oxide 9 is nonconductinq. Also, note that channel barrier region 57 prevents electrons from clocked gate 59 from falling into the buried channel and saturating it recall that region 55 is depleted. Additionallv, leakaqe current between clocked qates 59 and the virtual qates 63 is negligible provided the reverse bias junction breakdown is avoided, yet the buried channel conduction bands have smooth transitions from cell to cell. Further understanding of the operation of device 51 can be obtained from a description of a preferred embodiment method of fabrication of device 51. Such preferred embodiment method of fabrication is as follows. The starting materia can be a substrate of 100 p tvpe silicon with a 10 micro thick eDitaxial layer of p type with carrier concentration lEl5 cm3. A standard self aligned thick oxide SAT step sequences aDplied to define the active reqion and peripheral region of the device. The following Discussion will focus only on the active regions of the device. A 200A oxide is grown. in the active areas after the original SATO nitride and oxide have been removed. This step is followed by a uniform phosphorous buried channel implant no mask with the dose preferably being l.8El2 cm2 and energy 3O0keV.. Next a mask patterning and a high energy low dose boron implant defines the channel stop region.FIG. 6a shows a schematic cross section indicating the p type substrate 5 , p type epitaxial layer 53, thick oxide 71, 200A oxide layer 73, phosphorous doped buried channel region 55, photoresist pattern 75, and boron implanted channel stop regions 77. Note that the view in FIG. 6a is per endicular to the view in FIG. 3 and that the transfer of charge packets will be perpendicular to the paper in FIG. 6a. After the boron and phosthorous implants and necessary photoresist clean up, a patterned layer of nitride and oxide is deposited as shown in FIG. 6b note FIG.6b is a viewParallel to the view of FIG. 3 and perpendicular to the view of FIG. 6a. Nitride layer 7 is preferably 800P thick and oxide laver 81 is preferably 4000A thick. After the oxide 81 and nitride 79 are patterned, a boron implant is used to define virtual qates 63, which extend across the channel stops 77. Next a well mask photoresist 83 is Datterned and a phosphorous well implant 65 is made. after removal of photoresist and clean up, oxide 81 is removed and the device 51 is subject to oxidation.Optionally, before the oxidation and oxide 81 removal an additional nitride 79 etch is applied to form an undercut in nitride 79 which is used to control the interface regions between the virtual and clocked gates such an optional undercut is designated by 85 in FIG. Gb. This undercut stec allows for precise control of the electrical field between the clocked gate 59 and virtual gate 63. This control is necessary for achieving a smooth energy level transition from cell to cell and at the same time provides a hiqh reverse breakdown voltage between aates 59 and 63. This is in contrast to the prior art BCCD with p tvpe gates where generation of potential barriers between the gates to prevent leakage between the gates necessarily led to creation of nonsmooth cell to ceAl energy level transition profiles and formed parasitic wells and barriers which increased the transfer inefficiency. Typically, undercut 85 is one to two microns, and nitride 79 and oxide 81 are five to. ten microns wide. After oxidation, the remaining nitride 79 is removed and the device is ready for formation of the clocked gate and barrier see FIG. Ec, and the oxide 87 may be 4000A thick. If the optional undercut 85 of nitride 79 had been performed, then oxide 87 will extend beyond virtual qate 63 by the amount of the undercut, this is shown as the distance 89 in FIG. sc. Other combinations of materials are possible in place of the nitride and oxide stack for example, polysilicon and nitride. Next the p type channel barrier region 57 is formed by boron implant, preferably at a density of 2.4E12 cm2 at 9QkeV. Next the n type clocked gate 59 is formed by phosphorous implant at a density of 5E12 cm2 at 40keV.Lastly, the clocked barrier implant of boron a density of .1.6F12 cmZ at 70kept is made after barrier mask 91 is patterned. The resulting st ucture is shown in FIG. 6d. FIG. Ge shows a simplified plan view of the foregoing structure, and because channel stops 77 are only of a low dose they can be depleted by the clocked gate 59, so an additional high dose, low energy channel stop implant is made at the connection of virtual qate 63 with channel stop 77. This implant is designated 93 and is of sufficient energy to connect the virtual qate 63 with substrate 52. This high dose implant step is most conveniently made after the virtual gate and barrier implants. To achieve high frequency operation, the high sheet resistance of the clocked gate 5 must be overcome this is done bv covering the device with an oxide laver and forminq contact holes in the oxide to the clocked gates 59, preferably at regions 95 FIG. 6e over the channel stops 77. A low resistance layer, such as colvsilicon, molvbdenurn, titanium tunqsten, etc. is deposited on the oxide layer and makes contact to clocked gates 99 throuqh the openings 95. Preferably such low resistance laver is in the form of a buss located over the channel stops 77. Such buss location is advantageous if the cells are being used for optical or infrared detection. The qate structure of device 51 has low leakage current because the qate channel barrier is always reversed biased. Device 51 can be incorporated into manv different products, such as area imaqers, frame transfer, interline transfer, line addressed, as well as linear imaqers. The relative dimensions of the virtual gate 63 and the clocked gate 59 can change depending on the application. For example, use only of the virtual gates 63 as photosites for the collection of photogenerated charge and interfacing this with another CCD structure or charge sensing amplifier is possible A second preferred embodiment includes the use ofSchottky barriers in place of the gate and channel barriers of the first preferred embo diment device 51. More particularly, FIG. 7 shows a schematic cross sectional view of second preferred embodiment device, generally denoted or 1. Device 101 includes a s type substrate 103, and n type channel region tods, p type virtual qate regions 107, donor implants 109, metal qates ill which form Schottky barriers with layer 105, donor implants 113, and channel stops which are not shown and run parallel to the cross section of FIG.7. Metal gates Ill extend from channel stop to channel stop and thus span both the P tyPe channel stops and the n type channel region 105 this is analogous to the qates 59 of device 51 extendinq beyond channel barrier region 47 onto channel stop 77r as shown in FIG. 6e . Thus if metal 111 is chosen so that its work function lies between the work function of the p type material of layer 103 and the n tvpe material of layer 105, then Schottky barriers will be formed both at the junction between gate 111 and layer 105 and gate ill and the channel stops.Note that if the metal ill work function is too close to the p type material work function, then there will be a substantial hole current from metal qate ill to the channel stops which will cause large power dissipation and ohmic potential drops along buss lines as well as in the substrate. Conversely, if the work function of the metal ill is to close to the work function of the n type material, there will be a larqe dark current barrier leakage current that will saturate the buried channel and make device on a 101 inoperable. The operation of device 101 is analogous to that of devices 11 and 51 explained above. In particular, the Schottky barrier formed by metal gate lii and n type laver 105 is reversed biased this, along with the depletion due to the n p junction between layers 105 and 103, causes the conduction band enerqy level and the valence enerqy band to have a minimum. as shown in FIG. 8. As with devices 11 and 51, the minimum of the energy bands for device 101 defines the buried channel. Note that FIG. 8 also shows the conduction band and the valence band for the Schottky barrier formed between metal gate ill and the D tvpe channel stop these energy bands are shown as dotted lines in FIG. 8. The effect of implants 109 and 113 in device 101 is analogous to the effect of implants 23 and 25 in device 13 and implants 65 and 67 in device 51 in that the implants, in effect, split the regions below the virtual gates 107 into the virtual barrier and virtual well regions in the buried channel and split. the reqions under metal gates 111 into the clocked barrier and clocked well regions in the buried channels.Analoqous to the lower portions of FIGs. 1 and 3, the lower portion of FIG. 7 shows the energv level minimum of the conduction band in the buried channel for the virtual barrier and well and clocked barrier and well regions Again, the effect of clocking metal gate 111 is to shift the conduction band energy levels in the clocked barrier and well regions above and below the fixed conduction band levels in the virtual barrier and well regions, as illustrated bv the vertical arrows in the lower portion of FIG. 7. Device lOl can be fabricated using steps similar to those described above for fabrication of device 51 althouqh fabrication of device 101 may be simpler. A particular application for device 101 is as an infrared sensor. The barrier for electron flow from metal ill into n type region 105 can be adjusted so that infrared excited electrons can surmount the barrier and be collected in the buried channel region and therebv detected. The problem of a large dark current is overcome in such a device bv coolinq the device to law temseratures as is typical for infrared detectors. A third Prefaerred embodiment uses reversed bias heterodunctions for the gates. More particularly, if gates 59 of device 5.1 were of a semiconductor material with a smaller energy band gap then the energy band gap of the material of channel barrier 57, then the electron barrier for electrons flowing from the qate into the buried channel can be adjusted bv material selection. This would be useful in infrared detecting devices. The uDDer portion of FIG. 9 is a schematic cross section of fourth preferred embodiment device 121 which is, in essence, device 51 converted to a multiphase BCCD. Device 121 includes p type silicon substrate 123, n type layer 125 which contains the buried channel, p type regions 127 which are the channel barriers, n tvpe regions 129 hich are the clocked gates, acceptor implants 131 in regions l27 define the clocked barrier from the clocked well, p type regions 133 which are the virtual gates and connect to the channel stops parallel to but not shown in the cross section of FIG. ql, anA oxide 135. Each of clocked qates 129 channel barriers 127 junctions is reversed biased and each of gates 12q may be independently biased relative to the two adjacent gates. Such independent biasinq may transfer charge as shown bv the buried channel energy levels in the lower portion ofFIG. 9. Device 121 has low leakaqe current between qates 129 and between gates 129 and virtual gates 133 due to the reverse bias of the gate l29 channel barrier 127 junction. The upper portion of FIG. 10 shows a schematic cross section of the fifth preferred embodiment of the invented device, which is a single cell of a random access memory and generally denoted 151. Device 151 includes p type silicon substrate 153, type laver i 5 which is a buried chanel, p type region 157 which is a channel stop, n type region 159 which connects to a word line 18O, p type region 161 which is a channel barrier, n type region 163 which connects to a bit line 16 , p type region 165 which induces a storage region in channel 155, and oxide 167. The view in FIG. 10 is perpendicular to the analogous view in FIGS. 1, 3, 7, and 9 because the transfer of charge packets in device 151 is not along channel. 155 but rather a transfer back and forth between the storage region i the channel under region 165 and the region in the channel under region 159. Analogous to device 51, the reverse bias on the n p junction of regions 103 and 161 i.e., the bit line bias controls such transfer, as illustrated by arrow 171. in the channel energy level diagram in the. lower portion of FIG. 10.Arrow 173 illustrates the level change for read write a charqe packet from into the storage region. Again, the reverse bias on such n p iunction leafls to low leakage currents. Further preferred embodiments of the inventive device are shown in FIGS. 11, 12, and 13, and illustrate the output node and amplifiers which could be used with a RCCD made of cells of device 51. In particular, the upper portion of FIG. ill 11 shows a schematic cross sectional view of an output node for a BCCD, and a lower portion of FIG. 11 shows the enerqy leve s at the conduction band minimum and the flow of electrons in the same manner as the lower portions of FIGS. l and 3.The output node is generally denoted 781 and includes p type substrate 183, n type buried channel layer 185, D tvpe channel barrier l87, n type diode region 18s, n tyse reset qate reqion 191, n tyte floatina diffusion region 193, virtual gate regions 195, virtual barrier region 197, virtual well implants 199, output diode line 201, reset gate line 203, and floating diffusion line 205.The left edge of the upper portion of FIG. ll, including channel barrier 57 and clocked gate region 59, represents the last cell in the BCCD, and upon clocking of this last cell, illustrated bv arrow 207 in the enerqy level diaqram in the lower portion of FIG. ll, the charge packet in this last cell spills over the virtual barrier below region 197 and into the well below the floating diffusion region 193, as illustrated by arrow 209. This charge Packet increases the energy level in the well below floating diffusion region 193, as illustrated by arrow 211 this increase in energy is sensed by floating diffusion line 205 and proceed, as more fully described below. After the charge packet is sensed, the well below floating diffusion region 193 is reset by reset gate line 203 beinq turned on, which lowers the enerqy level below reset gate reqion 191 and channel barrier 187, as shown bv arrow 213 this lowering connects the well below floating diffusion reqion 193 to the virtual well. below implants 199 and the region below output diode region 189 in the right hand portion of FIG. ll.. The charge packet is thus drained off by output diode line 201 jand the energy level in the well below floating diffusion 193 reestablished at the output diode level 215.Next, the reset qate line 203 is turned off and the energy level below reset gate region 191 and channel barrier 187 is raised, as illustrated by arrow 213, to again isolate the well below floatinq diffusionsreqion 193 from the output diode region 189, and the floating diffusion line 205 is ready to sense the next charge packet delivered from the cell the left hand portion of FIG. 11. Note that the structure illustrated in the upper portion of FIG. 11 is of the same general format as that of device 51, and can be simply fabricated by a few mask changes.In particular, the channel barriers below floating diffusion region 193 and output diode region 189 are omitted, the left hand virtual gate lQS only has implants that create a virtual barrier rather than a virtual well, and the virtual qates 195 in the center and right hand portion of FIG. 11 have implant 1q9 to create a virtual well beneath them. Thus, the total output node illustrated in FIG. 11 can easily be fabricated upon and along with a BCCD incortoratinq device 51 cells. FIG. 12 is a schematic cross sectional view of a junction field effect transistor which can be used to amplify the charqe packet signal sensed by floatinq diffusion line 205. This field effect transistor, generally denoted 221, also is fabricated in the general format of device 5l and includes p type substrate 223, n type channel layer 229, n type drain region 227, p type gate region 229, n tvpe source region 231, drain polysilicon 233, drain metallization 235, source polysilicon 237, source metallization 23s, gate metallization 24l , qate implants 243, plus implants in the qate, source, and drain regions 229, 231, and 227. Device 22l is shown with enclosed topoloqy that is, device 221 is symetric about axis 245 which is necessary to isolate the p gate from the p channel stoDs or Deripheral field oxide.Floating diffusion line 205 may be connected to gate 241 and device 221 used to amplify the charqe packet siqnal sensed in device 181 gain, device 221 is compatible with the processing of device 51, although the thick oxide 247 must be opened to form the gate 241. metallizati on contact with gate region 229. In addition to the junction field effect transistor 221, a vertical bipolar transistor mav be fabricated with process steps compatible to those for fabricatinq device 51. A schematic cross section of such a bipolar transistor, generally denoted 261, is shown in wIG. 13 and includes p tvpe substrate 263, n type collector layer 265, n type collector region 2G7, n polysilicon 269, collector metallization 271, collector implant 273, p type base 275, base metallization 277, thick oxide 279, n Polysilicon 2awl, and emitter metallization 283.As with device 221, thick oxide 279 must be opened up in device 261 to make the base contact and the emitter 281. Note that the n polysilicon used in device 261 and 22l is the same as the n polysilicon used for buses in device 51 that is, there is no extra solvsilicon step needed to fabricate devices 221 and 261.Also, the collector region 987 and device 261 and the source region 231 and drain region 227 and device 221 are simply the same as the clocked gate region 59 in device 51 but with channel barrier omitted. Further implant 273 is just the virtual well implant 65 in device 51. Again, no extra fabrication steps are needed. Lastly, device 261 has enclosed topology by making the collector symetrical about the axis 285 to isolate the base pt reqion from the cs peripheral regions. In all of the preferred embodiment descriptions above, various items have been omitted for simplicity, such as protective oxides, metallizations, connections, and so forth. The preferred embodiments may be modified in various wavs, such as varying the doping levels, type of doPing, materials, and dimensions.