# Hydrogenation catalysts.

## Abstract
The invention provides a hydrogenation catalyst which contains 10 90 parts by weight of a metal metal compound and 9 10 parts by weight of silica and has a total active metal surface area of 1 to 20, preferably more than 2 m² g of metal and in which the metal has an uneven atomic number between 26 and 30, characterized in that the catalyst contains metal metal compound aggregates, the average particle size of which is between 5 and 50 micrometers and the metal metal compound aggregates are for at least 60, preferably at least 80, more preferably at least 90 , free of carrier particles. The invention also provides a method for preparing such catalysts and a process for the hydrogenating unsatu rated compounds using such a catalyst.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A hydrogenation catalyst which contains 10 90 parts by weight of a metal metal compound and 90 10 parts by weight of silica and has a total active metal surface area of 1 to 20, preferably more than 2 m2 g of metal and in which the metal has an uneven atomic number between 26 and 30, characterized in that the catalyst contains metal metal compound aggregates the average particle size of which is between 5 and 50 micrometers and the metal metal compound aggregates are for at least 60 free of carrier particles. 2. A hydrogenation catalyst according to claim 1, characterized in that the surface area of the metal metal compound aggregates is for at least 80 free of carrier particles. 3. A hydrogenation catalyst according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the metal metal compound aggregates are for at least 90 free of carrier particles. 4. A hydrogenation catalyst according to any one of the claims 1 3, characterized in that the average particle size of the metal metal compound aggregates is between 10 and 30 micrometers. 5. A hydrogenation catalyst according to any one of the claims 1 4, characterized in that the average metal crystallite size is between 10 and 25 nanometers. 6. A hydrogenation catalyst according to any one of the claims 1 5, characterized in that the metal crystallite size is 14 to 20 nanometers. 7. A process for the preparation of a catalyst containing a metal having an uneven atomic number ,etwerrm 26 and 30 as claimed in claim 1 which process comprises precipitation, ageing, separation and reduction and whizz catalyst contains an insoluble carrier and optionally a promotor, characterized in that the process is carried out in at least two separate steps, namely I. A rapid precipitation step in which, under vigorous stirring, metal hydroxide carbonate is precipi tated in a precipitation reactor in which the average residence time is 0.1 to 10 minutes, pre ferably between 0.2 and 4.5 minutes, more prefer ably less than 1.5 minutes, the normality of the solution in the reactor, which contains excess alkali, being between 0.05 and 0.5 N, preferably between 0.1 and 0.3 N, and the temperature of the liquid in the precipitation reactor being kept between 5 and 95, preferably between 15 and 55 CC. II. At least one separate, longer, ageing step with an average residence time in the ageing reactor of 20 to 180 min., preferably between 30 and 120 min., and a temperature which remains between 60 and 100, preferably between 90 and 98 C, whereafter, by processes known in the art, the solid material is collected, dried and activated with hydrogen. 8. A process according to claim 7, characterized in that the metal salt solution contains 10 80 g metal per litre in the form of a soluble salt. 9. A process according to claim 7 or 8, characterized in that the carrier is added in an amount of 20 200 g per litre. 10. A process according to any one of the claims 7 9, characterized in that the solution of alkaline compound contains 30 to 300 g alkaline compound calculated as anhydrous compound per litre. 11. A process according to any one of the claims 7 10, characterized in that the alkaline solution contains sodium carbonate. 12. A process according to any one of the claims 7 11, characterized in that the metal compound is a salt of a mineral acid. 13. A process according to any one of the claims 7 12, characterized in that the carrier comprises silica. 14. A process according to claim 13, characterized in that the silica used is kieselguhr which consists for 50 to 90 by weight of amorphous SiO2. 15. A process according to any one of the claims 7 13, characterized in that, during the precipitation, agitation takes place with a mechanical energy input of 5 2000 Watt per kilogram of solution. 16. A process according to any one of the claims 7 15, characterized in that the activation of the catalyst is carried out with hydrogen at a temperature between 150 and 500. 17. A process according to any one of the claims 7 16, characterized in that the precipitation is carried out continuously by dosing a carrier suspension into an aqueous metal salt solution and an alkaline solution together in a small, vigorously agitated mixing device and thereafter pumping the suspension into one or more post reactors. 18. A process according to claim 17, characterized in that two or more post reactors are used, the temperature in the second and possibly following post reactor being 5 15 C lower than that in the first post reactor. 19. A catalyst according to any one of the claims 1 6, characterized in that the metal has atomic number 27. 20. A process for the hydrogenation of unsaturatçd compounds, characterized in that a catalyst according to any one of the claims 1 6 or claim 19 is used.

## Description
HYDROGENATION CATALYSTSThe application relates to a hydrogenation catalyst which contains 10 90 parts by weight of metal metal compounds and 90 10 parts of silica and has a total active metal surface area of 1 to 25, preferably more than 2 m2 g of metal, in which the metal has an uneven atomic number between 26 and 30 which is to say that the active metal is cobalt or copper .Similar catalysts are already known in the art and are used for various hydrogenation reactions.Cobalt catalysts are especially effective for the hydrogenation of nitriles to amines and copper catalysts are especially effective for the selective hydrogenation of semi drying oils.Cobalt silica catalysts are disclosed inter alia inEuropean patent application EP A 80300004 0 013 275 Exxon Research and Engineering Co. . There the preparation takes place by co precipitation of cobalt ions and silicate ions on a porous carrier with an alkaline precipitation agent. In this method of preparation the precipitation time is typically about 20 minutes.However, these catalysts can only be filtered with difficulty and their catalytic properties combination of selectivity and activity need improvement.Copper silica catalysts are disclosed inter alia inU.S. patent specification US A 4,174,300 U.S. Secr.of Agriculture . The preparation takes place by coprecipitation, preferably by slowly adding an aqueous solution of a copper salt e.g. nitrate dropwise to a silicate solution. Carrier material can be present.Copper silica catalysts are also disclosed in British patent application GB A 2,121,310 UBE Industries Ltd , they are prepared by adding silica to a copper ammonia complex and subsequently removal of the ammonia by boiling for in a few hours at temperatures up to 100etc. In this method the copper ions are precipitated on the silica.Finally there is also European patent application EPA 84200028 114704 Unilever which is not a prior publication 01.08.84 which describes nickel silica catalysts, in which, the nickel compounds are for the greater part precipitated next to the silica, so that the nickel nickel compound particles are for at least 60 free of carrier particles. Nickel has atomic number 28. The present invention provides metal catalysts in which the active metal has an uneven atomic number between 26 and 30, that is to say cobalt and or copper silica catalysts having improved properties as to speed of filtration and hydrogenation, which catalyst contains metal metal compound aggregates of which the average particle size is between 5 and 40 micrometers and the metal metal compound aggregates are for at least 60 free of carrier particles.Preferably, the surface area of the metal metal compound agggregates is for at least 80 free of carrier particles, more preferably for at least 90 free of carrier particles.The average particle size of the metal metal compound aggregates is between 10 and 30 micrometers.The metal crystallite size is, on an average, between 10 and 25 nanometers, preferably between 14 and 20 nanometers.Catalysts according to the invention containing a metal having an uneven atomic number between 26 and 30, an water insoluble carrier and optionally a promotor can be prepared according to a process which is carried out in at least two separate steps, namely I. A rapid precipitation step in which, under vigorous mixing, metal hydroxide carbonate is precipitated in a precipitation reactor in which the average residence time is 0.1 to 10 minutes, preferably between 0.2 and 4.5 minutes, more preferably less than 1.5 minutes, the normality of the solution in the reactor, which contains excess alkali, being between 0.05 and 0.5 N, preferably between 0.1 and 0.3 N, and the temperature of the liquid in the precipitation reactor being kept between 5 and 95, preferably between 15 and 559C. II. At least one separate, longer, ageing step with an average residence time in the ageing reactor of 20 to 180 minutes, preferably between 30 and 120 minutes, and a temperature between 60 and 100, preferably between 90 and 97 C, where after, by processes known in the art, the solid material is collected, dried and activated with hydrogen.Preferably the solution of the metal salt contains 10 80 g metal per litre in the form of a soluble salt.The carrier is added in an amount of 20 200 g per litre.Preferably the solution of the alkaline compound contains 30 to 300 g alkaline compound per litre calculated as anhydrous material . The cobalt and or copper containing catalysts according to this invention contain a water insoluble carrier which is present or is added during the preparation of the catalyst. Suitable carrier materials are silica containing materials e.g. kieselguhr, and silicates such as bentonite. Kieselguhr or diatomaceous earth is preferred, particularly kieselguhr containing 50 908 by weight of amorphous silica.The carrier material can be added a directly as such, b as an aqueous suspension, c preferably as a suspension in an aqueous metallic salt solution, d as a suspension in an aqueous solution of the alkaline material.According to embodiments a to d , the carrier can be added before or during the precipitation. According to embodiment a , b or d , however, the carrier can also be added completely or partly preferably the latter after the precipitation, but also before or during the maturing.After precipitation and ageing according to the invention, the solid components are separated from the liquid, if desired washed, dried and activated by contacting with hydrogen at elevated temperatures.Metal compounds which can be used as starting material for the preparation of the catalysts according to this invention are water soluble metal compounds such as nitrates, sulphates, acetates, chlorides and formates. A solution thereof, preferably containing between 10 and 80 g of metal salt per litre, is fed to a precipitation reactor. Preferably the solution contains between 25 and 60 g of metal salt per litre. Alkaline compounds which can be used as starting material in the method of preparation according to the present invention are alkali metal hydroxides, alkali metal carbonates, alkali metal bicarbonates, the corresponding ammonium compounds and mixtures of the above mentioned compounds. The concentration of the alkaline solution which is fed into the precipitation reactor is preferably 20 to 300 g anhydrous material per litre in so far as the solubility allows that , more particularly between 50 and 250 g per litre.It is convenient to use both solutions of metal salt and alkaline compound in almost the same concentrations expressed in equivalents , so that approximately the same volumes can be reacted. The metal containing solution and the alkaline solution are added in such amounts per unit of time that a small excess of alkaline compound is present during the precipitation step, so that the normality of the liquid is between 0.05 and 0.5, preferably between 0.1 and 0.3 this normality is determined by titrating a solution of hydrochloric acid, with methyl orange as indicator .Sometimes it is necessary to add some more alkaline solution during the ageing step, in order to keep the normality within the range indicated above.The precipitation reactor has such dimensions with respect to the amounts of liquid pumped in, that the indicated short average residence times can be obtained. As a rule, average residence times of between 0.1 sec. and 10 minutes, preferably between 0.2 sec. and 4.5 minutes are used in the precipitation reactor. In a preferred embodiment, in which the precipitation step step 1 is carried out continuously, the amounts of solutions fed into the precipitation reactor are controlled by measuring, optionally continuously, the normality or pH of the reactor effluent.The temperature at which the precipitation takes place can be controlled by adjusting the temperatures of the liquids fed in. The required vigorous agitation of the liquid in the precipitation reactor preferably takes place with a mechanical energy input of between 5 and 2000 watts per kg of solution. More preferably the agitation takes place with a mechanical energy input of 100 to 2000 watts per kg of solution.The reaction mixture obtained from the precipitation reactor goes immediately thereafter to a stirred post reactor of a significantly higher capacity.Optionally, further components are added here, such as carrier material, alkaline solution as described above and or possible promotors.Preferably the liquid in the ageing reactor, thus during the ageing step, is kept at a temperature between 60 and 100 C, preferably between 90 and 98 C. The precipitation step and also the maturing step can be carried out batchwise discontinuously , continuously and semi continuously e.g. according to the cascade method .Usually the normality of the liquid in the ageingreactor during the ageing step step 2 is kept in the same range as during the precipitation step step 1 if necessary by adding some more alkali. The ageing step can be carried out in one or more reactors, the total average residence time being maintained between 20 and 180 minutes, preferably between 60 and 150 minutes. If two or more reactors are used, it is preferred to have the temperature in the second or further reactor 10 to 15 centigrades lower than in the first ageing reactor.After the ageing step has been completed, the solid material is separated from the mother liquor, usually washed, dried, optionally ground and calcined and thereafter activated with hydrogen at an elevated temperature, between 150 and 500, preferably between 200 and 400 C. This activation can take place at atmospheric pressure or at increased pressure.Preferably before drying, or during a step preceding that, promotors can be added.Suitable amounts of promotors are from 0.5 to 10 , calculated on the weight of cobalt and or copper, of elements such as molybdenum, nickel, iron, silver, magnesium, or other elements and combinations thereof.The solid material is preferably washed with water sometimes some alkaline material or a surfaceactive material is added to the washing water.Also an organic solvents e.g. acetone can be used during washing. Drying preferably takes place with hot air. Spray drying is preferred but freeze drying is also quite possible.The metal metal compound aggregates of the catalyst consist mainly, i.e. for more than 80 or 90 , of cobalt and or copper and their oxides, but some promotor material can also be present. These aggregates preferably contain metal crystallites having an average diameter between 10 and 25, more particularly between 14 and 20 nanometers. The cobalt and or copper catalysts so obtained are highly active and selective in the hydrogenation of higher nitriles to amines and semi drying oils respectively.The invention is illustrated by the following examples.Example 1An aqueous suspension was prepared by suspending kieselguhr containing 58 amorphous SiO2 in a cobalt nitrate hexahydrate solution 0.6 mol litre , and in such a manner that the SiO2 cobalt molecular ratio was 0.4. Further, an aqueous soda solution containing 100 g calcined soda per litre was prepared.Equal solutions of both solutions were continuously pumped into a vigorously stirred about 25 Watts Xg solution reactor, in which cobalt hydroxide carbonate was precipitated at a temperature of l9eC. In the reactor in which the precipitation took place the suspension had a residence time of 30 seconds, whereafter the suspension was immediately pumped to an ageing reactor. In this reactor the precipitate was aged for 30 minutes average residence time at a temperature of 97 C. The aged precipitate was then filtered off in a rapid and continuous manner and the purple filter cake thus obtained was washed with water, spray dried and activated with hydrogen at atmospheric pressure at a temperature of 450 C. By X ray fluorescence spectrometry it was determined that the cake contained 42.4 cobalt and 8.6 SiO2 SiO2 Co 0.43 . By electron microscopy it was established that the catalyst consisted of aggregates of an average of 14 micrometers. Micro X ray analysis revealed that the cobalt crystallites had an average diameter of 16 nanometers.The cobalt cobalt compound aggregates had a surface area of which about 85 was free of carrier particles, as is apparent from Figure I. The original shape of the infusoria skeletons were for the greater part free of precipitate and easily and freely perceptible.The active metal surface area was determined by hydrogen chemisorption and was found to be 9.2 m2 g catalyst.Example 2By the same procedure as in Example 1 a copper catalyst on kieselguhr was prepared. The starting material was copper nitrate hexanitrate which, just like the anhydrous sodium carbonate, was used in the same molecular concentrations as in Example 1. However, ageing was carried out at 96QC, whereafter a blue cake was easily filtered off. After washing and spray drying, the cake was activated in hydrogen at 2500C at 0.1 MPa. The cake contained 45.2 copper and 7.2 silica SiO2 Cu 0.36 . The copper crystallite size was 16.5 nanometers and the aggregates 25 measured micrometers on an average. Here about 80 of the guhr particles appeared to have a surface area free of copper copper compounds as is apparent from Figure II.Carbon monoxide chemisorption was used to determine the active metal surface area and 2.2 m2 g catalyst was found.Examples 3 and 4The activity of the cobalt on kieselguhr catalyst of Example 1 was tested in the hydrogenation reaction of C18 nitrile to amine.To this end an amount of activated Co guhr catalyst, corresponding with amounts of Co metal of 0.18 and 0.12 based on the weight of the nitrile , were added to the nitrile.The reaction was carried out in an autoclave in the presence of hydrogen and ammonia of which the partial pressures were 1.5 M Pa and 2.5 M Pa, respectively. When no more uptake of hydrogen was measured, the experiment was stopped. The conversion of nitrile into amine and the selectivity towards primary amine were determined. The conversion to amines was 70 and 100 , respectively, and the selectivity was 958 and 85 , respectively.Example 5The activity of the copper on kieselguhr catalyst prepared according to Example 2 was tested in the hydrogenation of soybean oil.An amount of Cu kieselguhr catalyst, corresponding with an amount of Cu metal of 0.3 on the basis of the weight of the soybean oil , was added to the soybean oil. The activation of the Cu kieselguhr catalyst by hydrogen took place in situ in the reaction vessel during the heating of the reaction mixture to the hydrogenation temperature. The reaction was carried out in a hydrogenation vessel where, at atmospheric pressure, hydrogen 1 1 man was stirred through the soybean oil with a stirrer 3000 rotations per minute . The reaction was carried out at a temperature of 185 CC for 1 hour. T1 ic difference between the of refractive index of the starting material and of the reaction product was determined at a temperature of 65 C. This difference was taken as a yardstick for the activity of the catalyst. Decrease of N65D 1.4580 to N65D 1.4555.