# CROSSLINKABLE POLYMER COMPOSITION

## Claims
Vernetzbare Polymer Zusammensetzung, welche enthält

## Description
The present invention relates to a crosslinkable polymer composition. More specifically, it relates to a crosslinkable polymer composition capable of providing a polymeric material having both excellent heat resistance and excellent adhesion to metal properties. Known adhesive thermoplastic polymer compositions containing thermoplastic polymers having an alcoholic hydroxyl group in the molecule thereof and epichlorohydrin polymers have a limited heat resistance due to an unsatisfactory thermoplasticity and the presence of chlorine. In addition, practical use of the above mentioned polymer compositions is limited because the chlorine contained in the compositions causes inherent problems from a sanitary viewpoint and pollutional problems due to the generation of poisonous gases when such compositions are incinerated, and also because the epichlorohydrin polymers are expensive. In addition, polymer compositions comprising polyvinyl alcohols having a saponification degree of 85 or less and olefin copolymers containing 10 by weight or less of copolymerized unsaturated carboxylic acid or the anhydride thereof have been proposed in, for example, Japanese Unexamined Patent Publication Kokai No. 55 127450. However, these polymer compositions are heat retaining resin compositions which are developed to improve the uniform dispersibility of the heat retaining polyvinyl alcohols and olefin copolymers, and cannot be used as an adherent resin or crosslinkable resin. Furthermore, packaging resin compositions comprising ethylene vinyl acetate copolymers and copolymers of olefins and unsaturated carboxylic acids, unsaturated dicarboxylic acids, or unsaturated dicarboxylic acid derivatives or the derivatives thereof have been proposed in, for example, Japanese Unexamined Patent Publication Kokai No. 52 62382. However, although these resin compositions are suitable for use as moisture resistant packaging materials, because they have desired gas barrier properties but are readily cut by means of a cutter, they are not suitable for use as adhesive resin compositions or crosslinkable polymer compositions. Recently, polymeric materials having good heat resistance and also excellent adhesion to, for example, metals, are strongly desired, in particular, in the electrical and electronic equipment fields. Various polymeric materials having good adhesion to, for example, metals, at an ambient temperature are known in the art. However, polymeric materials having both excellent adhesion properties and excellent heat resistance are not known in the art. Although polyester resins and polyimide resins have been proposed as having good adhesion properties and heat resistance, polyester resins are disadvantageous in that they have high water absorption properties and large thermal expansion coefficients at a temperature of 20 C to 250 C. Furthermore, polyimide resins are also disadvantageous in that they have insufficient adhesion to, for example, metals, due to the poor surface activity of the resins. Accordingly, the objects of the present invention are to eliminate the above mentioned disadvantages of the polymeric materials and to provide a crosslinkable polymer composition capable of providing a polymeric material having both excellent heat resistance and excellent adhesion to various materials including metals. Other objects and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the following description. In accordance with the present invention, there is provided a crosslinkable polymer composition comprising The present invention will be better understood from the description set forth below with reference to the accompanying drawings in which The olefin copolymers I usable in the crosslinkable polymer composition according to the present invention are those selected from the above mentioned copolymers I a , I b , I c and I d . The copolymers I a usable in the present invention are those which are composed of i ethylene, ii at least one unsaturated dicarboxylic acid anhydride, and iii at least one unsaturated carboxylic acid ester and or vinyl ester i.e., component I a iii and which are preferably melted to become flowable at a temperature of 150 C or less. The unsaturated dicarboxylic acid anhydrides usable in the present invention are acid anhydrides having preferably 4 to 40, more preferably 4 to 35, carbon atoms such as maleic anhydride, tetrahydrophthalic anhydride, 4 methyl cyclohex 4 ene 1,2 carboxylic acid anhydride, and bicyclo 2,2,1 hepta 5 ene 2,3 dicarboxylic acid anhydride. The unsaturated carboxylic acid esters usable in the present invention are those having an ester moiety with preferably 1 to 25, more preferably 1 to 20, carbon atoms, preferably those having good heat stability such as methyl meth acrylate and ethyl meth acrylate. The use of unsaturated carboxylic acid esters having poor heat stability such as butyl meth acrylate is not preferable since foaming is likely to occur. The vinyl esters usable in the present invention are those having an ester moiety with preferably 1 to 25, more preferably 1 to 20, carbon atoms, such as, for example, vinyl acetate and vinyl propionate. The above mentioned compounds usable in the preparation of the copolymer I a may be used alone or in any mixture thereof. The unsaturated dicarboxylic acid anhydrides and the above mentioned component I a iii are preferably contained in the copolymer I a within the range represented by the following equations 1 and 2 , wherein The copolymer I a can be prepared in any conventional manner. For example, the above mentioned components i , ii and iii of the copolymer I a are radically polymerized at a temperature of 120 C to 260 C under an elevated pressure e.g., 500 to 2500 kg cm² . Alternatively, the above mentioned unsaturated dicarboxylic acid anhydrides are graft copolymerized to olefin copolymers of ethylene and the above mentioned component I a iii in the presence of free radical initiators such as peroxides by means of a mixing device such as a single or twin screw extruder or kneader or Brabender Registered Trade Mark . The total amount of the components ii and iii of the copolymer I a in the copolymer I a is in an amount of 5 to 70 by weight based on the total amount of the copolymer I a as mentioned above. The use of the components ii and iii in the total amount of more than 70 by weight is likely to cause an unpreferable increase in the softening point of the copolymer, which will impair the desired flowability at a temperature of 150 C or less and also cause an unpreferable increase in the economical cost. Contrary to this, the use of the components ii and iii in the total amount of less than 5 by weight is likely to cause an increase in the crystalline melting point, which will impair the desired low temperature flowability or fluidity . The unsaturated dicarboxylic acid anhydrides act as a crosslinking active point with the copolymers II a or II b and also as an adhesion property providing agent for various substrates. The content of the unsaturated dicarboxylic acid anhydrides in the copolymers I a is 0.4 to 10 by weight. The use of the unsaturated dicarboxylic acid anhydrides in an amount of more than 10 by weight tends to result in an increase in the water absorption properties, which requires an unpreferable long period of time for the dewatering and drying and which also tends to unpreferably generate foaming in the products due to the inclusion of the absorbed water or water formed by the dehydration reaction when the copolymer I a is crosslinked with the copolymer II a and II b . Furthermore, the product after crosslinking tends to absorb water, thereby decreasing the electric characteristics. Contrary to this, when the amount of the bound acid anhydride is less than 0.4 by weight, the number of crosslinking points are substantially less even when the comonomer compositions of the copolymer II a or II b or the compositions of the copolymer I a and the copolymer II a or II b are varied. As a result, the desired heat resistance tends to be unpreferably decreased. Although there is no critical limitation to the melt index MI of the copolymer I a , the preferable melt index is 0.5 g 10 min or more, more preferably, 5 g 10 min or more, and most preferably, 50 g 10 min, as determined according to an ASTM D 1238 method at a temperature of 190 C under a load of 2.16 kg. The preferable MI values of the other copolymers used in the present invention are the same as in the MI of the copolymer I a . The copolymers I b usable in the present invention are those which, are composed of the ethylene and unsaturated monocarboxylic acids and which are preferably melted to become flowable at a temperature of 150 C or less. For this reason, the preferable copolymers I b optionally contain the same third component of the below mentioned copolymer. The unsaturated monocarboxylic acids usable in the preparation of the present copolymers I b are those having preferably 2 to 26, more preferably 2 to 21, carbon atoms such as, for example, acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, and ethacrylic acid. The copolymer I b can be prepared from ethylene and the unsaturated monocarboxylic acids by the methods as mentioned in the preparation of the above mentioned copolymer I a . When the above mentioned optional third component is used, the third component can be preferably used in an amount of 70 by weight or less, more preferably, 10 to 60 by weight, based on the total amount of the copolymer I b . Also, when the amount of the third component is more than 70 by weight, the desired characteristic features of the present invention can be obtained. However, the use of the optional third component in an amount of more than 70 by weight is not necessary from the production and economical viewpoints. The bound unsaturated monocarboxylic acid content in the copolymer I b is preferably 0.5 to 15 mole . Furthermore, the olefin copolymer having 0.1 mole or more of the unsaturated monocarboxylic acid monomer grafted thereto also can be used as the copolymer I b of the present invention. The unsaturated monocarboxylic acid acts as a crosslinking reaction point for the below mentioned copolymers II and also as an adhesion property providing agent for various widely prevailed substrates. Also, for this reason, the use of an excessive amount of the unsaturated monocarboxylic acid is not necessary. The use of too large an amount of the unsaturated monocarboxylic acid tends to result in an unpreferable increase in the water absorption properties, which generates foaming during the molding and which causes an unpreferable decrease in the electrical characteristics. Furthermore, the use of too large an amount of the unsaturated monocarboxylic acid is also disadvantageous in safety, separation, and recovery from the production and economical viewpoints. Contrary to this, the use of too small an amount of the unsaturated dicarboxylic acid tends to cause an unpreferable decrease in the adhesion properties and heat resistance. The copolymers I c usable in the present invention are copolymers which are obtained by saponifying at least a portion of the ester groups of the olefin copolymers composed of ethylene and the above mentioned unsaturated carboxylic acid esters, followed by neutralizing the saponified copolymers by, for example, a metal removal treatment, and which are preferably melted to become flowable at a temperature of 150 C or less. The unsaturated carboxylic acid esters usable in the preparation of the copolymers I c include, for example, methyl meth acrylate, ethyl meth acrylate, hydroxymethyl meth acrylate, and diethyl fumarate. The content of the unsaturated carboxylic acid ester in the copolymers I c is 1 to 25 mole . The preferable saponification degree of the ester groups of the copolymers I c is 20 to 80 , depending upon the content of esters. The saponification of the copolymers I c can be carried out in any conventional manner. For example, the copolymers having ester groups are added, together with NaOH, to a mixed solvent of toluene and isobutyl alcohol 50 50 and the mixture is refluxed for, for example, three hours. The saponification degree can be controlled by the amount of NaOH. Further, the saponified product can be precipitated by the addition of water or an alcohol. The solvent is separated by filtration and the resultant product can be vacuum dried overnight at a temperature of 50 C. The polymer is dispersed in water and sulfuric acid is added thereto. The mixture is agitated at a temperature of 70 C for one hour to effect the metal removal treatment i.e., neutralization reaction . Thus, the desired olefin copolymers I c can be obtained. The copolymers I d usable in the present invention are those composed of ethylene and unsaturated dicarboxylic acids or the half esters thereof and, optionally, the third component of the below mentioned copolymer II b or the above mentioned copolymer I a and preferably melted at a temperature of 150 C or less. These copolymers are prepared by copolymerizing the ethylene and unsaturated carboxylic acid anhydrides and, optionally, the third component and then modifying the resultant copolymers having acid anhydride groups to convert a portion or all of the acid anhydride groups into the half ester groups or dicarboxylic acid groups. The preferred unsaturated carboxylic acids anhydrides usable in the preparation of the copolymers I d are maleic anhydride, tetrahydrophthalic anhydride, anhydride, 4 methylcyclohexa 4 ene 1,2 carboxylic acid anhydride, and bicyclo 2,2,1 hepta 5 ene 2,3 dicarboxylic acid anhydride. When the above mentioned optional third component is used, the third component can be preferably used in an amount of 70 by weight or less, more preferably 10 to 60 by weight, based on the total amount of the copolymer I d . Also, when the amount of the third component is more than 70 by weight, the desired characteristic features of the present invention can be obtained. However, the use of the optional third component in an amount of more than 70 by weight is not necessary from the production and economical viewpoints. The bound acid anhydride content in the copolymer I d is 0.5 to 15 mole . Furthermore, the olefin copolymers of the ethylene and the optional third component, having 0.1 mole or more of the acid anhydride group grafted thereto, also can be used as the copolymer I d of the present invention. The above mentioned acid anhydride groups act as a crosslinking reaction point for the below mentioned copolymers II and also as an adhesion property providing agent for various prevailed substrates. Thus, the use of an excessive amount of the acid anhydride groups is not necessary for either of the above mentioned reasons. As mentioned above, the olefin copolymers I d used in the present invention are prepared by modifying the acid anhydride groups of the above mentioned copolymers. The modification is carried out by hydrolysis and or by half esterification with an alcohol. Examples of the alcohols usable in the half esterification are primary alcohols preferably those having 1 to 25, more preferably 1 to 20 carbon atoms such as methanol, ethanol, propanol, and butanol. Although the preparation of the olefin copolymers I d by the modification of the olefin copolymers having the acid anhydride group is explained above, the copolymers I d can be prepared directly from, for example, alkyl meth acrylates, unsaturated carboxylic acid anhydrides e.g., maleic anhydride , and unsaturated carboxylic acid esters e.g., maleic acid esters , without modifying the acid anhydride groups. The olefin copolymers II usable in the crosslinkable polymer composition according to the present invention are those selected from the above mentioned copolymers II a and II b . The copolymers II a usable in the present invention are those which are at least composed of ethylene and glycidyl alkyl meth acrylates and which are preferably melted to become flowable at a temperature of 150 C or less. The copolymers II a may optionally or preferably contain a third component such as, for example, unsaturated carboxylic acid esters or vinyl esters. The glycidyl alkyl meth acrylates usable in the present invention are those having the general formula wherein R is H or a methyl group, R² is a linear or branched alkyl group having 1 to 12 carbon atoms. Examples of such glycidyl alkyl meth acrylates are monoglycidyl butene tricarboxylate, glycidyl methacrylate, glycidyl acrylate, glycidyl ethacrylate, and glycidyl itaconate. The content of the glycidyl alkyl meth acrylates is 0.1 to 17 mole in the total amount of the copolymers from the viewpoint of the adhesion properties and heat resistance. When the glycidyl alkyl meth acrylate is used in too small an amount, not only are the adhesion properties not sufficiently improved but also the desired sufficient heat resistance cannot be obtained even when the compositions of the copolymers I and the reaction conditions are appropriately adjusted. Contrary to this, when the glycidyl alkyl meth acrylate is used in too large an amount, the water absorption properties of the resultant are unpreferably increased. As a result, foaming is generated during the molding and water is absorbed after the molding. The above mentioned foaming and water absorption cause an unpreferable decrease in the electrical characteristics. Furthermore, the use of too large an amount of the glycidyl alkyl meth acrylate is also disadvantageous in safety, separation, and recovery from the production and economical viewpoints. The olefin copolymers of ethylene and the above mentioned optional third component containing 0.1 to 17 mole of the glycidyl alkyl meth acrylate grafted thereto, also can be used as copolymers II a in the present invention. The unsaturated carboxylic acid esters usable in the preparation of the copolymer II a are those having an ester moiety with preferably 1 to 25, more preferably 1 to 20 carbon atoms, such as, for example, methyl meth acrylate and ethyl meth acrylate. The use of these meth acrylates is preferable from the viewpoint of heat stability. For instance, the use of alkyl meth acrylate having insufficient heat stability such as t butyl meth acrylate is not preferable because it tends to cause foaming. The vinyl esters usable in the preparation of the copolymer II a are those having an ester moiety with preferably 1 to 25, more preferably 1 to 20, carbon atoms such as, for example, vinyl acetate and vinyl propionate. The copolymers II a can be prepared in any conventional manner. For example, the above mentioned comonomers are radically polymerized at a temperature of 120 C to 260 C under an elevated pressure e.g., 500 to 2500 kg cm² . Alternatively, the copolymers of ethylene and the above mentioned third component are graft copolymerized with the glycidyl alkyl meth acrylates in the presence of a free radical initiator, such as a peroxide, by means of a mixing device such as a single or twin screw extruder or kneader or Brabender Registered Trade Mark . The total amount of the above mentioned third component and the glycidyl alkyl meth acrylate is preferably in an amount of 5 to 70 by weight, based on the total amount of the copolymers II a . The use of the third component and the glycidyl alkyl meth acrylate in a total amount of more than 70 by weight is likely to cause an unpreferable increase in the softening point of the copolymers, which will impair the desired flowability at a temperature of 150 C or less and also cause an unpreferable increase in the economical cost. Contrary to this, the use of the third component and the glycidyl alkyl meth acrylate in a total amount of less than 5 by weight is likely to cause an unpreferable increase in the crystalline melting point, which will impair the desired low temperature flowability or fluidity . The glycidyl alkyl meth acrylates act as a crosslinking active point with the copolymers I a , the copolymers I b , the copolymers I c , or the copolymers I d , and also as an adhesion property providing agent for various substrates. The content of the bound glycidyl alkyl meth acrylates in the copolymers II a is 0.1 mole to 17 mole . The use of too small an amount of the glycidyl alkyl meth acrylates in the preparation of the copolymers II a , and the number of the desired crosslinking points will substantially decrease and, therefore, the heat resistance is unpreferably decreased, even when the comonomer compositions of the above mentioned copolymers I a , I b , I c and or I d are appropriately adjusted or when the compounding ratio of the above mentioned copolymers II a with the above mentioned copolymers I a , I b , I c and or I d is appropriately adjusted. The copolymers II b usable in the present invention are those which are composed of i ethylene, ii at least one compound having an activated hydrogen such as i.e., the second component a hydroxyl group or primary or secondary amino group in the side chain, and iii unsaturated carboxylic acid esters and or vinyl esters i.e., the third component . The copolymers II b are preferably melted to become flowable at a temperature of 150 C or less. The second components usable in the preparation of the copolymers II b are preferably hydroxyalkyl meth acrylates such as hydroxymethyl meth acrylate, hydroxyethyl meth acrylate, hydroxypropyl meth acrylate, and hydroxybutyl meth acrylate α alkenyl alcohols such as allyl alcohol vinyl alcohols which may be also obtained by saponifying vinyl ester copolymers after copolymerization to thereby introduce vinyl alcohol units into the copolymer chains α alkenyl amines such as allyl amine and primary or secondary aminoalkyl meth acrylates such as aminoethyl meth acrylate. The preparation of the copolymers II b can be carried out by radically copolymerizing ethylene and the above mentioned second components, and the third components in the same way as in the copolymers I a . The content of the third component in the copolymers II b is 10 to 60 by weight. When the content of the third component is more than 70 by weight, the desired characteristic features of the present invention cannot be obtained. Moreover, the use of the third component in an amount of more than 70 by weight is not necessary or preferable from the production and economical viewpoints. The content of the second component in the copolymers II b is 1 to 30 mole , and especially, 1.5 to 15 mole . The second component acts as a crosslinking reaction point for the above mentioned copolymers I and also acts as an adhesion property providing agent for various widely prevailed substrates. For these reasons, the use of an expensive amount of the second component of the copolymers II b is not necessary. The use of too large an amount of the second component tends to unpreferably increase the water absorption properties of the copolymers, which generates unpreferable foaming during the molding. For this reason, and also because the molded articles are susceptible of water absorbing, adverse affects such as a decrease in the electrical characteristics of the molded articles are caused. Furthermore, the use of too large an amount of the second component is also disadvantageous in safety, separation, and recovery from the production and economical viewpoints. Contrary to this, the use of the second component tends to cause an unpreferable decrease in the heat resistance although a good adhesion property can be obtained. The crosslinkable composition according to the present invention can be prepared by uniformly mixing one or more of the above mentioned copolymers I selected from the group consisting of the above mentioned copolymers I a , I b , I c , and I d with one or more of the above mentioned copolymers II selected from the group consisting of the above mentioned copolymers II a and II b , in any conventional manner known in the art. For example, the copolymers can be dry blended. Namely, the mixing can be carried out by dry blending the copolymers in a mixer such as a Henschel mixer conventionally used as a mixing means in olefin polymer, fields, or by melt blending the copolymers in a mixing device such as Banbury R.T.M. mixer, a single or twin screw extruder, or a roller mill. In addition, the copolymers may be first dry blended and the resultant mixture melt blended. Furthermore, more homogeneous blends can be obtained by using a static mixer at the screw tip of an extruder. It should be noted, however, that when the copolymers I and II are blended in molten conditions, the blending must be carried out in conditions such that no substantial crosslinking reaction between the copolymers I and II occurs. It will be understood that, if the crosslinking reaction occurs during the blending, the desired homogenous blend cannot be obtained. As a result, not only are the molding properties during molding and processing of the resultant composition worsened, but also the shapes and the heat resistance of the molded articles after crosslinking are unpreferably decreased. For this reason, the melt blending of the copolymers I and II is preferably carried out at a temperature of 25 C i.e., room temperature to 150 C, especially, up to 140 C, although the temperature depends upon the melt viscosity of the copolymers I and II at a blending temperature. Consequently, the softening temperatures or normal crystalline melting points of the olefin copolymers I and II are preferably 120 C or less, more preferably, 100 C or less, and the convenient flowability thereof is as large as possible. The blending ratio by weight of the copolymer I to the copolymer II should be from 99 1 to 1 99, preferably, 98 2 to 2 98, and more preferably, 5 95 to 95 5. Furthermore, since homogeneous compositions are not likely to be obtained when the compounding ratios of the copolymers I and II are largely different or when the difference in the melt viscosities of the copolymers I and II is large, the desired polymer compositions can be preferably obtained by blending the copolymers in such a manner that the melt viscosities thereof are close or similar, or by preparing a master batch at an elevated temperature having the composition ratio of about 1 1, followed by an appropriate diluting. In the practice of the preparation of the crosslinkable polymer compositions according to the present invention, any conventional ingredients or additives conventionally used in olefin polymer fields, such as, for example, antioxidants, ultraviolet absorbers, foaming agents, foaming auxiliaries, metal deterioration inhibitors, flame retardants, tackifiers, and so on, can be used as long as the desired characteristics of the present composition are not adversely affected. The crosslinkable polymer compositions obtained as mentioned above can be molded or cast upon heating to obtain the molded crosslinked polymer products. Furthermore, the crosslinkable polymer compositions according to the present invention are first film extruded through, for example, a T die film extruder, and then the thus obtained film can be adhered on one or both surfaces of various substrates such as aluminum, paper, cellophane, copper, polyimide resin film, PET, PBT, nylon, and polysulfone by applying the above mentioned film to these substrates, followed by heating. Alternatively, the crosslinkable polymer compositions according to the present invention are formed into sheets having an appropriate thickness by means of rolls or calender rolls, and then the sheets are sandwiched between the substrate to which they are to be adhered, followed by being pressed upon heating at an elevated temperature. Furthermore, the crosslinkable polymer compositions according to the present invention are subjected to two layered or multi layered lamination in a conventional extrusion lamination method, and then the laminates can be treated upon heating at an elevated temperature to thereby obtain the composite materials having a high heat resistance and strong adhesion property. The crosslinked film of the present compositions also can be prepared on the series of rolls having different roll temperatures e.g., from a low temperature through 230 C to 240 C by laying the films on the rolls under some tension, followed by gradually raising the temperatures. Alternatively, the crosslinked film or sheet of the present crosslinkable polymer composition can be obtained by sandwiching the non crosslinked T die film or sheet formed as mentioned above between, for example, Teflon sheets, followed by subjecting them to a heat press treatment. The above mentioned crosslinked film has good adhesion properties even though it is crosslinked. Accordingly, the crosslinked film can be applied to various substrates and can be strongly adhered to the substrates upon heating. Of course, the crosslinked film has a remarkably high heat resistance. Furthermore, the crosslinked foamed film or sheet can be prepared by blending foaming agents to the compositions when blending. Heat resistant crosslinked foaming composite materials sandwiched type also can be prepared by applying substrates to both surfaces of the crosslinked foamed film or sheet, without using an adhesive. The crosslinkable polymer compositions according to the present invention can be also used to form pipes. The heating temperature for the crosslinking is generally 155 C or more, preferably, 170 C or more, although the temperature depends upon the comonomer compositions of the olefin copolymers I and or II . Although the crosslinking time is largely varied, depending upon the crosslinking temperature and the compounding composition s of the olefin copolymers I and II , the crosslinking time is within the range of several seconds to several hours. In order to sufficiently exhibit the desired adhesion properties and heat resistance of the crosslinked polymer obtained from the present crosslinkable compositions, the gel content of the crossliked products of the copolymers I and II is preferably 10 or more, more preferably, 50 or more, and especially, 70 or more. The gelation ratio is determined as follows. The crosslinked polymer sample is placed in 300 mesh wire cloth and the sample is subjected to a Soxhlet extraction for 6 hours with boiled toluene. Thereafter, the remaining sample in the wire cloth is dried at a temperature of 80 C for 16 hours and then the weight of the dried sample is measured with the wire cloth. The remaining sample weight is calculated from the total weight of the sample and the wire cloth. The gelation rate is determined by weight . The flow index of the crosslinked polymer is 0.01 g 10 min or less. As mentioned above, according to the present invention, non crosslinked polymer compositions having good flowability and excellent moldability can be obtained. These crosslinkable polymer compositions can readily provide various molded or formed articles such as films, sheets, and pipes. Furthermore, the crosslinked polymer obtained from the present crosslinkable polymer composition has excellent electrical insulating properties as in conventional thermoplastic resins. The most characteristic features or effects of the present invention reside in the heat resistance and adhesion properties, as follows. Consequently, the crosslinkable polymer compositions according to the present invention and the crosslinked products thereof can be practically and effectively utilized in various fields due to the above mentioned advantageous characteristics. The crosslinked polymer according to the present invention have, in addition to the heat resistance and the adhesion properties, excellent electrical characteristics such as large electrical insulating properties e.g., volume and surface resistivity and low dielectric constant and dielectric loss tangent, excellent chemical resistance such as water resistance, organic solvent resistance, acid resistance and alkali resistance of the adhesion strength, excellent heat cycle resistance and boiling resistance or water vapor resistance , excellent etching characteristics, and excellent plating characteristics. Consequently, the crosslinkable polymer composition or crosslinked polymer derived therefrom according to the present invention can be advantageously utilized in various electrical machinery and apparatus and electronic equipment such as electronic materials e.g., laminated plates for print substrates and flexible circuit plates . Furthermore, the crosslinked polymer can be utilized as raw materials for automobile parts in which the heat resistance and the adhesion properties are required. The present invention will now be further illustrated by, but is by no means limited to, the following Examples, wherein percents are all by weight unless otherwise specified. Various olefin copolymers I and II listed in Table 1 were melt mixed in a weight ratio of 50 50 or 70 30 by using a single screw type extruder having a cylinder diameter of 30 mm at a temperature of less than 140 C to prepare polymer compositions. The details and physical properties of the copolymers I and II are shown in Table 1. From the polymer compositions obtained above, films were prepared by using a T die film extruder having a cylinder diameter of 40 mm. The temperature of the C₁ , C₂ , and C₃ portions of the cylinder and the die temperature were set at 110 C, 115 C, 120 C, and 125 C, respectively. Thus, clear films having a thickness of 60 to 100 µm and containing no gels and fish eyes were obtained. The films obtained above were applied to aluminum foils having a thickness of 70 µm and were pressed under a pressure of 20 kg cm² at a temperature of 160 C, 180 C, or 240 C with a preheating time of 1.5 minutes and various press times listed in Table 2. Thus, adhered plates having a thickness of 1.5 mm were obtained. The adhesion strength i.e., T peel strength of the adhered plates at room temperature as determined according to JIS K 6854 was remarkably high as shown in Table 2. The gellation of each sample is also shown in Table 2. Furthermore, the above mentioned non crosslinked T die film was placed between two Teflon sheets and was pressed in the same manner as mentioned above at a temperature of 160 C, 180 C, or 240 C. Thus, laminated sheets having a thickness of 1.5 mm were prepared. These laminated sheets were dipped in a molten solder bath at a temperature of 200 C, 250 C, 300 C or 350 C for 3 to 30 minutes and, thereafter, the conditions of the films were observed. The results were as shown in Table 2. Various 50 50 mixture compositions of copolymers II a with copolymers I b , I c , or I d all listed in Table 1 were prepared by mixing these copolymers in a Labo Plastomill R.T.M. at a temperature of less than 110 C for 3 to 4 minutes at a rotor speed of 40 r.p.m. From the compositions obtained above, sheets having a thickness of 1.5 mm were prepared by rolls having a temperature of 85 C The thus obtained sheets were sandwiched between two Teflon R.T.M. sheets and heat pressed at a temperature of 180 C to 240 C for 30 minutes to 2 hours under a pressure of 20 kg cm². Thus, the crosslinked sheets were obtained. The gelation , tensile strength, Izod impact strength 40 C , hardness, electrical characteristics R.H. 53 97 , and volume resistivity after boiling with boiled water for 2 hours, of the crosslinked sheets were determined. The results were as shown in Table 3. Various 50 50 mixture compositions of copolymers II a with copolymers I a , I c , or I d , listed in Table 1 were prepared. From these compositions, T die films were prepared in the same manner as in Example 1. These films were applied to glass, cellophane, 6 nylon, polycarbonate, Bakelite R.T.M. , polyethylene, and polypropylene in the same manner as in Example 1. The films were adhered to the substrates in a press at a temperature of 120 C to 150 C for 20 to 30 minutes under pressure or not under pressure in the case of the glass plate. The adhesion strength of the adhered sheets i.e., 180 peel strength were determined by using a tension tensile tester at a stress rate of 100 mm min. The adhesion strength and the gelatin results were as shown in Table 4. Regarding the glass plates, the sandwiches of glass plate adhesive layer i.e., copolymer composition film aluminum foil were heated without pressure to effect the crosslinking. The aluminum foil was used as a support during the peeling test. The cellophane was heated under a pressure of 10 kg cm² in the form of the sandwiches of cellophane adhesive layer cellophane. The 6 nylon was heated under a pressure of 10 kg cm² in the form of the sandwiches of 6 nylon adhesive layer aluminum foil. The aluminum foil was used as a support. The polycarbonate and the Bakelite were tested in the same way as mentioned above. The polyethylene or polypropylene was adhered under a pressure of 10 kg cm² upon heating in the form of the sandwich of polyethylene or polypropylene adhesive layer polyethylene or polypopylene. The adhesion strength was determined. The results were as shown in Table 4. Polymer compositions were prepared by mixing copolymers II a 4 and I b 2 , copolymers 11 a 3 and I c 3 , copolymers II a 4 and I d 4 , and copolymers II a 2 and I d 2 all in a weight ratio of 1 1 at a temperature of 95 C for 3 minutes in a labo plastomill at 40 r.p.m., while 3 of Cellmic CAP 500 Registered Trade Mark available from Sankyo Kasei K.K. Japan was mixed as a foaming agent. The resultant compositions were pressed at a temperature of 110 C to prepare pressed sheets having a thickness of 1 mm. When the resultant pressed sheets containing the foaming agent placed on an aluminum foil were heated in an oven at a temperature of 230 C for 5 minutes, the foamed products having a foaming factor of about 30 times were obtained. The gel content of the resultant foamed products was 83 and the adhesion strength was 6.5 kg 25 mm. The non crosslinked pressed sheet containing the foaming agent obtained above was sandwiched between aluminum foils and the resultant laminate was then pressed at a temperature of 110 C for one minute under a pressure of 5 kg cm² thus, the pressed sheets were adhered with two aluminum foils on both surfaces. The thickness of the adhered resin was 0.5 mm. The thus obtained laminate was heated at a temperature of 230 C for 5 minutes under ambient pressure in an oven. Thus, the foamed product in the form of a sandwich was obtained. The gel content thereof was more than 89 and the adhesion strength was more than 4.7 kg 25 mm. When these foamed products were placed in an oven having a temperature of 350 C, no deformation and discoloration occurred. Thus, excellent heat resistance was observed. The polymer composition containing 3 of Cellmic CAP 500 R.T.M. was prepared by mixing copolymers II a 4 and I b 2 in a ratio of 1 1. The thus obtained polymer composition was sandwiched with five kinds of paper in the form of paper composition paper. The sandwiched laminates were pressed at a temperature of 110 C for 1 minute under a pressure of 5 kg cm². The pressure sheets were heated at a temperature of 190 C for 10 minutes under ambient pressure in an oven to form sandwich type foamed products. The adhesion strength of the foamed product was very strong, for example, the substrate i.e., paper was broken without peeling at the adhesion interfaces. No deformation was observed when the foamed product was allowed to stand in air at a temperature of 250 C or more for one hour or more. When the foamed product was first prepared, followed by adhering it to the paper, a similar adhesion strength was obtained. The non crosslinked T die film obtained in Example 1 was adhered to an aluminum foil in a press at a temperature of 230 C for 10 to 30 minutes or 300 C for 3 to 10 minutes under a pressure of 5 to 20 kg cm². The resultant laminates were sampled in the form of strips having a width of 25 mm. The sample strips were subjected to a heat cycle test in which the sample was first allowed to stand at an elevated temperature of 150 C to 300 C for 10 minutes in an oven and then rapidly dipped in a dry ice methanol bath at a temperature of 80 C for 10 minutes. This subsequent operation was repeated 5 to 10 times. Thereafter, the adhesion strength was determined at room temperature. The results were as shown in Table 5. As is clear from the results shown in Table 5, the adhesion strength did not substantially change and remained strong even after the very severe heat cycle test. The T die film prepared from a 50 50 mixture composition of the copolymers II a 4 and I d 4 in the same manner as in Example 1 was sandwiched between aluminum foils having a thickness of 100 µm and adhered together in a press at a temperature of 230 C for 5 minutes under a pressure of 20 kg cm². The thus prepared sandwich type samples were cut into the form of a strip having a width of 25 mm. The sample strips were dipped in boiling water for a maximum of 48 hours. After the sample strips were allowed to stand for 2 hours in a constant temperature room having a temperature of 21 C and a relative humidity R.H. of 54 , the adhesion strength was determined according to a T type peeling test method. The adhesion strength after 4 hours and 48 hours dipping was 10.2 and 9.3 kg 25 mm, respectively. The resultant crosslinked products had a constant and very strong adhesion strength irrespective of the dipping time in boiling water. A polymer composition was prepared by mixing the copolymers II a 4 and I d 4 in a mixing ratio of 1 1 at a temperature of 110 C for 4 minutes at 40 r.p.m. in a Labo Plastomill R.T.M. , while 3 to 5 of antimony trioxide and 9 to 30 of AFR 1002 Registered Trade Mark azodicarbonamide available from ASAHI GLASS CO., LTD. were added, as flame retardants, to the composition. The thus obtained composition was roll milled at a temperature of 100 C to form a sheet having a thickness of 1.5 mm. The resultant sheet was sandwiched between aluminum foils or between Teflon R.T.M. sheets. Thus, the aluminum sandwiched plate and the crosslinked sheet were obtained by heat pressing at a temperature of 240 C for 10 minutes under a pressure of 20 kg cm². The adhesion strength was determined according to a T type peeling test method by using the former sample and the temperature dependency of the burning characteristics and electrical characteristics was determined by using the latter sample. The results were as shown in Table 6. The polymer composition in example 19 was mixed with 3 of Cellmic CAP 500 in the same manner as in Example 17. The resultant mixture was crosslinked foamed in the same manner as in Example 15. The foaming conditions and the combustibility were evaluated. The results were as shown in Table 7. A 20g amount of the above mentioned α olefin copolymer II d 1 containing 89 mol of ethylene, 9.5 mol of ethyl acrylate, and 1.5 mol of maleic anhydride was dissolved in 200 ml of toluene and 100 ml of water and 3 times by mol, in terms of the maleic anhydride portion, of triethylamine were added thereto. The resultant mixture was agitated at a temperature of 80 C for 5 hours. Thereafter, the mixture was neutralized with hydrochloric acid and hydrochlonic acid was further added until the mixture became weakly acidic. The mixture was allowed to stand for one night. Hexane was added to the resultant mixture as a precipitating solvent to precipitate the resultant copolyer. The copolymer was washed several times with hexane and dried in vacuo at a temperature of 40 C for one night. The degree of hydrolysis was calculated from the decrease in the absorption at 1760 cm ¹ corresponding to acid anhydride determined by IR absorption analysis. As a result, the hydrolysis was 100 . This example illustrates a half esterification reaction. A 20 g amount of the copolymer I d 1 containing 89 mol of ethylene, 9.5 mol of ethyl acrylate, and 1.5 mol of maleic anhydride was dissolved in 200 ml of toluene. A 100 ml amount of methanol and 1 ml of triethylamine were then added to the solution. The resultant mixture was allowed to react under a methanol reflux condition for 6 hours. After the reaction, hexane was added, as a precipitating solvent, to the reaction mixture to precipitate the resultant copolymer. The copolymer was washed several times with hexane. The copolymer was dried in vacuo at a temperature of 40 C for one night. The degree of the half esterification was calculated from the decrease in the absorbance at 1760 cm ¹ corresponding to acid anhydride determined by IR absorption analysis. As a result, 70 of the maleic anhydride was half esterified. Various copolymers used in the following Examples are listed in Table 8, in which the kinds and amounts of the second and third comonomers and the MI of the copolymers are shown. The 50 50, 80 20, and 95 5 mixture compositions of copolymers I a 4 and II b 9 were obtained in the same manner as in Example 1. The films of these compositions were prepared in the same manner as in Example 1 and the resultant films were adhered to aluminum foils in the same manner as in Example 1. The adhesion strength and gelation of the resultant adhered plates at room temperature were as shown in Table 9. Furthermore, the adhered plates obtained in the same manner as mentioned above were dipped in a molten solder bath in the same conditions as mentioned in Example 1. The conditions of the films after dipping were as shown in Table 9. Various 50 50 mixture compositions of the copolymers I a and II b listed in Table 8 were prepared by mixing these copolymers at a temperature of less than 110 C for 3 to 4 minutes at a rotor speed of 40 r.p.m. in a Labo Plastomill R.T.M. . The sheets of these copolymers having a thickness of 1.5 mm were prepared at a temperature of 85 C in rolls. These sheets were sandwiched between Teflon R.T.M. sheets and were crosslinked at a temperature of 190 C to 230 C for 30 minutes to 2 hours under a pressure of 20 kg cm² in a press. The data of the gel content , tensile strength, Izod impact strength at 40 C, hardness, electrical characteristics at R.H. of 53 to 97 , and volume resistivity after treating with boiling water for 2 hours were as shown in Table 10. The T die films of various 50 50 mixture compositions of the copolymers I a and II b were prepared in the same manner as in Example 1 and these films were adhered to glass, cellophane, and polyurethane sheets at a temperature of 170 C to 230 C for 10 to 20 minutes under pressure in the case of the cellophane and polyurethane or not under pressure in the case of the glass in a press in the same manner as in Example 1. The adhesion strength i.e., 180 peel strength of the adhered products was determined by a tensilon tension tester at a stress rate of 100 mm min. The adhesion strength and gel content of the adhered products were as shown in Table 11. Regarding the glass plates, the sandwiches of glass plate adhesive layer i.e., copolymer composition film aluminum foil were heated without pressure to effect the crosslinking. The aluminum foil was used as a support during the piling test. The cellophane was heated under a pressure of 20 kg cm² in the form of the sandwiches of cellophane adhesive layer cellophane. The polyurethane was heated under a pressure of 20 kg cm² in the form of the sandwiches of polyurethane adhesive layer aluminum foil. The aluminum foil was used as a support. Polymer compositions were prepared by mixing copolymers I a 8 and II b 4 and copolymers I a 4 , II b 5 both in a weight ratio of 1 1 at a temperature of 95 C for 3 minutes in a labo plastomill at 40 r.p.m., while 3 of Cellmic CAP 500 available from Sankyo Kasei K.K. Japan was mixed as a foaming agent. The resultant compositions were pressed at a temperature of 110 C to prepare pressed sheets having a thickness of 1 mm. When the resultant pressed sheets containing the foaming agent placed on an aluminum foil were heated in an oven at a temperature of 230 C for 5 minutes, foamed products having a foaming factor of about 30 times were obtained. The gel content of the resultant foamed products was 83 and the adhesion strength was 6.5 kg 25 mm. The non crosslinked pressed sheet containing the foaming agent obtained above was sandwiched between aluminum foils and the resultant laminate then pressed at a temperature of 110 C for one minute under a pressure of 5 kg cm², thus the pressed sheet was adhered with two aluminum foils on both surfaces. The thickness of the adhered resin was 0.5 mm. The thus obtained laminate was heated at a temperature of 230 C for 5 minutes under ambient pressure in an oven. Thus, the foamed product in the form of a sandwich was obtained. The gel content thereof was more than 87 and the adhesion strength was more than 4.9 kg 25 mm. When these foamed products were placed in an oven having a temperature of 350 C, no deformation and discoloration occurred. Thus, excellent heat resistance was observed. The polymer composition containing 3 of Cellmic CAP 500 was prepared by mixing copolymers I a 4 and II b 2 , in a ratio of 1 1 in a labo plastomill in the same manner as in Example 35. The thus obtained polymer composition was sandwiched with five kinds of paper in the form of paper composition paper. The sandwiched laminates were pressed at a temperature of 110 C for 1 minute under a pressure of 5 kg cm². The pressed sheets were heated at a temperature of 190 C for 10 minutes under 1 atm. in an oven to form sandwich type foamed products. The adhesion strength of the foamed product was very strong, for example, the substrate i.e., paper was broken without peeling at the adhesion interfaces. No deformation was observed when the foamed product was allowed to stand in the air at a temperature of 250 C or more for one hour or more. When the foamed product was first prepared, followed by adhering it to the paper, a similar adhesion strength was obtained. The non crosslinked T die film obtained in Example 23 was adhered to as aluminum foil in a press at a temperature of 230 C for 10 to 30 minutes or 300 C for 3 to 10 minutes under a pressure of 5 to 20 kg cm². The resultant laminates were sampled in the form of strips having a width of 25 mm. The sample strips were subjected to a heat cycle test in which the sample was first allowed to stand at an elevated temperature of 150 C to 300 C for 10 minutes in an oven and then rapidly dipped in a dry ice methanol bath at a temperature of 80 C for 10 minutes. This subsequent operation was repeated 5 to 10 times. Thereafter, the adhesion strength was determined at room temperature. The results were as shown in Table 12. As is clear from the results shown in Table 12, the adhesion strength did not substantially change and remained strong even after the very severe heat cycle test. The T die film prepared from a 50 50 mixture composition of the copolymers I a 4 and II b 10 in the same manner as in Example 1 was sandwiched between aluminum foils having a thickness of 100 µm and adhered together in a press at a temperature of 230 C for 5 minutes under a pressure of 20 kg cm². The thus prepared sandwich type samples were cut into the form of a strip having a width of 25 mm. The sample strips were dipped in boiling water for a maximum of 48 hours. After the sample strips were allowed to stand for 2 hours in a constant temperature room having a temperature of 21 C and a relative humidity R.H. of 54 , the adhesion strength was determined according to a T type peeling test method. The adhesion strength after 4 hours and 48 hours dipping was 11.6 and 10.2 kg 25 mm, respectively. The resultant crosslinked products had a constant and very strong adhesion strength irrespective of the dipping time in boiling water. A polymer composition was prepared by mixing the copolymers I a 4 and II b 10 , in a mixing ratio of 1 1 at a temperature of 110 C for 4 minutes at 40 r.p.m. in a labo plastomill, while 3 to 5 of antimony trioxide and 9 to 30 of AFR 1002 available from ASAHI GLASS CO., LTD. were added, as flame retardants, to the composition. The thus obtained composition was roll milled at a temperature of 100 C to form a sheet having a thickness of 1.5 mm. The resultant sheet was sandwiched between aluminum foils or between Teflon sheets. Thus, the aluminum sandwiched plate and the crosslinked sheet were obtained by heat pressing at a temperature of 230 C for 20 minutes under a pressure of 20 kg cm². The adhesion strength was determined according to T type peeling method by using the former sample and the temperature dependence of the burning characteristics and electrical characteristics was determined by using the latter sample according to an ASTM D 635 method. The results were as shown in Table 13. The polymer composition in Example 39 was mixed with 3 of Cellmic CAP 500 in the same manner as in Example 39. The resultant mixture was crosslinked foamed in the same manner as in Example 35. The foaming conditions and the combustibility were evaluated. The results were as shown in Table 14. The 50 50, 70 30, 80 20, and 90 10 mixture compositions of copolymers I a 4 and II a 6 listed in Table 8 and the films obtained therefrom were prepared in the same manner as in Example 23. The adhesion strength i.e., T peel strength , gel content, and heat resistance of the films were determined under the conditions listed in Table 15 in the same manner as in Example 23. The results were as shown in Table 15. The crosslinked sheets of the 50 50 mixture composition of the copolymers I a and II a were prepared in the same manner as in Examples 24 to 28. The data of the gel content, Izod impact strength at 40 C, stiffness, hardness i.e., Shore D , electrical characteristics at R.H. of 53 to 97 , and volume resistivity after treating with boiling water for 2 hours, of the crosslinked sheets were as shown in Table 16. The T die films of the various 50 50 mixture compositions of the copolymers I a and II a were formed in the same manner as mentioned in Example 23. These films were adhered to glass, cellophane, and polyurethane sheets at a temperature of 120 C, 150 C, or 170 C for 20 to 30 minutes under pressure in the case of the cellophane and polyurethane or not under pressure in the case of the glass in a press in the same manner as in Example 23. The gel content and the adhesion strength of the adhered products were determined in the same manner as in Examples 29 to 34. The results were as shown in Table 17. A polymer composition was prepared by mixing copolymers I a 4 and II a 6 in a weight ratio in the same manner as in Example 35 of 1 1 for 3 minutes, while 3 of Cellmic CAP 500 available from Sankyo Kasei K.K. Japan was mixed as a foaming agent. The resultant compositions were pressed at a temperature of 110 C to prepare pressed sheets having a thickness of 1 mm. When the resultant pressed sheets containing the foaming agent placed on an aluminum foil were heated in an oven at a temperature of 230 C for 5 minutes, foamed products having a foaming factor of about 25 times were obtained. The gel content of the resultant foamed products was 71.2 and the adhesion strength was 5.5 kg 25 mm. The non crosslinked pressed sheet containing the foaming agent obtained above was sandwiched between aluminum foils and the resultant laminate then pressed at a temperature of 110 C for one minute under a pressure of 5 kg cm², thus the pressed sheet was adhered with two aluminum foils on both surfaces. The thickness of the adhered resin was 0.6 mm. The thus obtained laminate was heated at a temperature of 210 C for 2 minutes under ambient pressure in an oven. Thus, the foamed product in the form of a sandwich was obtained. The gel content thereof was more than 56.5 and the adhesion strength was 3.8 kg 25 mm. When these foamed products were placed in an oven having a temperature of 350 C, no deformation and discoloration occurred. Thus, excellent heat resistance was observed. The non crosslinked T die film obtained in Example 41 was subjected to a heat cycle test in the same manner as in Example 37. Thereafter, the adhesion strength of the film was determined at room temperature 21 C . The results were as shown in Table 18. As is clear from the results shown in Table 18, the adhesion strength did not substantially change and remained strong even after the very severe heat cycle test. The T die film of the 50 50 mixture composition of the copolymers I a 4 and II a 7 was formed in the same manner as in Example 23 and was dipped in boiling water for a maximum of 48 hours in the same manner as in Example 38. After the sample strips were allowed to stand for 2 hours in a constant temperature room having a temperature of 21 C and a relative humidity R.H. of 54 , the adhesion strength was determined according to a T type peeling test method. The adhesion strength after 4 hours and 48 hours dipping was 10.8 and 9.6 kg 25 mm, respectively. The resultant crosslinked products had a constant and very strong adhesion strength irrespective of the dipping time in boiling water. The flame retardant was compounded into the 50 50 mixture composition of the copolymers I a 4 and II a 7 in the same manner as in Example 39. The adhesion strength and the temperature dependency of the burning characteristics and electrical characteristics of the resultant compositions were determined. The results were as shown in Table 19. A 3 amount of Cellmic CAP 500 used above was added to the composition of Example 54 in the same manner as in Example 54. The resultant composition was crosslinked foamed in the same manner as in Example 35. The evaluation results of the foamed conditions and the combustibility were as shown in Table 20. The copolymers II a 4 and I b 2 listed in Table 1 were mixed in a weight ratio of 50 50 at a temperature of 110 C in an extruder to prepare pellets of the resultant compositions. The resultant composition was pressed at a temperature of 120 C for one minute under a pressure of 10 kg cm² to obtain a non crosslinked film having a thickness of about 50 µm i.e., film I . The film I was pressed at a temperature of 240 C for 10 minutes under a pressure of 10 kg cm² to obtain a crosslinked film having a thickness of approximately 70 µm i.e., film II . On the other hand, the copolymer I b 2 was pressed at a temperature of 240 C for 5 minutes under a pressure of 10 kg cm² in a press to obtain a film in the form of a wedge having a thickness of 10 to 50 µm i.e., film III . In order to determine the infrared absorption spectra, the film III was placed in a reference side and the film I or II was placed in a sample side in an infrared absorption spectrum apparatus Type IR A3 manufactured by Nippon Bunko K.K. and the absorbance at 940 cm ¹ derived from the carboxyl group COOH of the copolymer I b 2 in the film I or II was completely compensated and made zero by appropriately moving the film III . The infrared spectrum charts of the film I i.e., non crosslinked film or II i.e., crosslinked film were as shown in Figs. 1 and 2, respectively. The absorption amount of the epoxy group in this condition was calculated by using the absorbance of methylene at 4250 cm ¹ as an internal standard as follows. Wherein C The conversion can be calculated from C The copolymers I a 4 and II a 6 listed in Table 8 were mixed in a weight ratio of 50 50 and the pellets i.e., composition was prepared in the same manner as mentioned above. From these pellets, non crosslinked film i.e., film IV and crosslinked film i.e., film V were prepared in the same manner as mentioned above. The infrared absorption specta of these films IV and V were as shown in Figs. 3 and 4, respectively.