# LIQUID CRYSTAL DISPLAY APPARATUS

## Claims
Flüssigkristallanzeigevorrichtung

## Description
This invention relates to liquid crystal display apparatus wherein laser beams modulated by, for example, video signals, are irradiated on the surface of a liquid crystal cell for writing a display picture or image on the cell. In general, when a laser beam is irradiated on a liquid crystal cell so that the laser beam energy is converted into heat and applied in this form to the liquid crystal, the portion of the liquid crystal irradiated by the beam undergoes an abrupt rise in temperature, thus causing phase transition in the liquid crystal. However, as the liquid crystal is cooled rapidly following cessation of the laser beam irradiation, the liquid crystal reverts to its original phase, while the molecular arrangement remains highly disrupted due to the rapid cooling. This state is maintained in a stable condition for a prolonged time. Thus, an image can be written into the liquid crystal cell with memory effects by irradiating the cell with a laser beam using a predetermined operation or sequence of operations. In addition, image writing means making use of the liquid crystal cell and the laser beam and optical projection means can be combined into a display apparatus wherein the image or picture obtained by the liquid crystal cell may be magnified and projected onto a viewing screen. A previously proposed projection type display apparatus is shown in Figure 1 of the accompanying drawings. A laser beam source 1 emits a laser beam modulated by video signals. This laser beam is collimated by a collimation lens 2 into a bundle of parallel beams which is then deflected downwardly in the drawing by a total reflection mirror 3 and caused to fall on a scanner 4. The scanner 4 is designed to scan the laser beam on a liquid crystal cell 7 both horizontally and vertically on the basis of the horizontal sync and vertical sync signals associated with the laser beam modulating signals. The construction and operation of the liquid crystal cell 7 will become apparent as the present description proceeds. The laser beam emitted from the scanner 4 is directed through a focusing scanning lens 5 and a deflective mirror 6 onto the liquid crystal cell 7. The elements 1 to 6 described above make up image writing means. The liquid crystal cell 7 is a three layer structure comprising a liquid crystal layer sandwiched between a pair of opposed transparent electrodes. The liquid crystal material is mixed with a colouring matter exhibiting a maximum absorption in the oscillating wavelength of the laser beam source 1. When the laser beam falls on the liquid crystal cell 7, the laser beam is absorbed by the colouring matter mixed into the liquid crystal. In this case, the absorbed energy is converted into heat and the temperature of the liquid crystal molecules about the particles of the colouring matter is raised abruptly. This causes phase transition to take place so that the arrangement of the liquid crystal molecules is highly disrupted. As the liquid crystal cell is cooled rapidly, the distrupted state of the molecular arrangement is maintained. The image is written in this manner into the liquid crystal cell 7. The image written into the cell 7 can be erased by the application of an ac electrical field across the transparent electrodes which are disposed on both sides of the liquid crystal layer. A projecting light source 8 is provided on the right hand side of the cell 7 and the light from the source 8 is irradiated on the cell 7 by means of a schlieren lens 9 and a cold filter 10 that absorbs the light in the infrared wavelength range. A mask 11 forming a part of the schlieren optical system is placed at a focal point of the schlieren lens 9, and a projection lens 12 is placed so that its focal points are situated on the surfaces of the liquid crystal cell 7 and that of a projection means is provided for projecting the magnified image once written on the liquid crystal cell 7. It should be noted that the image is written into the liquid crystal cell 7 by so called raster scanning according to which the laser beam is caused to scan, for example, from the upper left towards the upper right of the liquid crystal cell 7, by operation of the scanner 4, and the beam is returned to the upper left at a position slightly below the starting position for the first scanning so as to resume the scanning towards a position slightly below the terminal position for the first scanning. The operation is repeated a preset number of times for completing each picture. The image is preferably written at a fast speed. In general, the display speed required of the display unit is one second per picture and a speed of four or more seconds per picture is considered to be unacceptable in practice. The above described liquid crystal cell 7 suffers from lower writing sensitivity so that writing a dot or picture element is time consuming and energy consuming, and fast writing is achieved only with considerable difficulty. For example, even with the liquid crystal cell thought to have the highest sensitivity, the energy necessary in writing a dot amounts to 0.04 µ3 dot. Assuming that a semiconductor laser unit with an output of 30 mW is used as the laser beam source, a pulse width of 1.3 microseconds per dot is required so that when the scanner 4 with a blanking period of 1 msec per scan is used, 2000 x 2000 dots corresponding to one picture takes about seven seconds to write. For raising the writing speed, a laser beam source 1 with a larger output is used, or the sensitivity of the liquid crystal cell 7 is increased. Using a gas laser unit such as an Ar laser unit which is able to develop a large output, the apparatus using the gas laser unit is undesirably increased in size. While the use of the semiconductor laser unit is desirable in this respect, the output of such laser with a proven operational reliability is low, being about 40 mW. In addition, the sensitivity of the liquid crystal cell 7 and the writing speed can be increased only with considerable difficulty. According to the present invention there is provided a liquid crystal display apparatus comprising According to the present invention there is also provided a method of operating a liquid crystal display device which method is characterised by Thus an embodiment of the present invention may comprise a liquid crystal display apparatus comprising a liquid crystal cell having a liquid crystal layer between opposing electrodes, two laser beam sources emitting laser beams which are light modulated in accordance with predetermined signals, a polarization beam splitter combining the laser beams from the respective laser beam sources, a scanner for horizontally and vertically scanning the combined laser beams from the polarization beam splitter, and a scanning lens having a focal distance f to converge the combined laser beams from the scanner on the liquid crystal cell. The laser beams emitted from the laser beam sources are oriented so that they fall on the polarization beam splitter as S polarized light and P polarized light, with the optical axes of the laser beams combined at the polarization beam splitter being offset by an angle Δϑ from each other, the laser beams being caused to scan on the liquid crystal cell by the scanner in such a manner that two image or picture components each corresponding to one scanning line are simultaneously written on the liquid crystal cell, with the distance between the adjacent scanning lines being equal to f.Δϑ. The invention will now be described by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawings, throughout which like parts are referred to by like references, and in which The embodiment of liquid crystal display apparatus shown in Figure 2 is designed to write an image on a liquid crystal cell 70. Referring to Figure 2, respective laser beams which have been previously modulated by modulating signals such as video signals are emitted from laser beam sources 21 and 31. The laser beam emitted from the laser beam source 21 is collimated by a collimation lens 22 into an elliptical bundle of parallel beams. These beams are converted from an elliptical bundle into a circular bundle by a prism 23 and are introduced as S polarized light into a polarization beam splitter 40. Similarly, the laser beam emitted from the laser beam source 31 is collimated into an elliptical bundle of parallel beams which are then converted from the elliptical bundle into a circular bundle by a prism 33 and introduced as P polarized light into the polarization beam splitter 40. The laser beams from the sources 21 and 31 are combined in the polarization beam splitter 40. However, the optical axes of the combined laser beams exiting from the splitter 40 are not completely coincident, but are offset by an angle Δϑ from each other as shown in Figure 2. This is achieved by shifting the position of the laser beam source 21 as indicated by the arrows. Two laser beams whose optical axes are offset by the angle Δϑ from each other are transmitted to a scanner 50 whereby the laser beams are caused to scan on the liquid crystal cell 70 horizontally and vertically on the basis of horizontal and vertical sync signals included with the modulating signal. The two laser beams are converged by a scanning lens 60 on the surface of the liquid crystal cell 70 at discrete points from each other with a distance equal to f.Δϑ, where f is the focal distance of the scanning lens 60 and may, for example, be 50 mm. The liquid crystal cell 70 is of the three layer structure type comprising a liquid crystal material sandwiched between two opposing transparent electrodes. The liquid crystal material consists of a smectic phase material or a cholesteric phase material or mixtures thereof, which are mixed with a colouring matter exhibiting a maximum light absorption in the oscillation wavelength range of the laser beam sources 21 and 31. Although cylindrical lenses may be used in place of the prisms 23 and 33, to avoid possible abberations it is preferable to use anamorphic prisms. For converging the two laser beams on two discrete points on the surface of the liquid crystal cell 70 spaced by a distance f.Δϑ from each other, the two laser beam sources 21 and 31 may be arranged with their optical axes substantially parallel to each other. However, this in effect is not desirable because then the laser beam sources 21 and 31 need to be positioned at a large distance from the liquid crystal cell 70. In the above described liquid crystal display apparatus, the laser beam from the laser beam source 21 and the laser beam from the laser beam source 31 may be caused to scan on the liquid crystal 70 simultaneously with the distance between the two laser beams being equal to f.Δϑ, as shown in Figure 3. By setting the distance f.Δϑ so as to be equal to the distance between adjacent scanning lines, for example about 8 microns, picture components corresponding to two channel signals or two scanning line signals can be simultaneously written on the liquid crystal cell 70 during one scanning line interval. Consequently, even if the scanning speed of the scanner 50, the output of the laser beam sources 21 and 31, and the sensitivity of the liquid crystal cell 70 are the same as those in previously proposed liquid crystal display apparatus, the image writing speed can be twice that of the previously proposed apparatus. The image once written on the cell 70 can be erased by applying an ac field across the two transparent electrodes placed on both sides of the liquid crystal layer. The light transmitting projection type display apparatus shown in Figure 1 may be designed to use the above described liquid crystal display apparatus. It should be noted that semiconductor laser units with outputs of about 30 to 40 mW, that is lower than those of gas laser units, may be employed as the laser beam sources 21 and 31. However, in a semiconductor laser unit, there is a certain relation between the direction of light polarization and the anisotropy of the laser beam divergence angle, so that the writing spots on the liquid crystal 70 tend to become elliptical in cross section and the long and short axes of the spots are displaced 90 If the polarization beam splitter 40 is displaced or tilted for some reason or other, the image forming positions on the liquid crystal cell 70 of the respective writing spots of the laser beams from the laser beam sources 21 and 31, are affected in such a manner that a deviation is caused in the relative position of the writing spots. This can be compensated for by using a so called laminate mirror 80 which comprises a mirror 81 and a polarization beam splitter 82 bonded to each other as shown in Figure 7 in such a manner that the laser beam from the laser beam source 21 is conveyed to the polarization beam splitter 82 through the mirror 81, and the laser beam from the laser beam source 31 is conveyed directly to the polarization beam splitter 82. In this case, even if the laminate mirror 80 is rotated or tilted slightly for some reason, the optical axes of the two laser beams exiting from the laminate mirror 80 are always offset by Δϑ, so that the relative position of the writing spots on the liquid crystal cell 70, that is, the distance f.Δϑ can be set at all times to a constant value, this assuring accurate image writing. From the foregoing, it will be seen that the two laser beam sources 21 and 31 are used in the embodiments of liquid crystal display apparatus, and the laser beams from the laser beam sources 21 and 31 are combined with an angular offset ϑ between the respective optical axes by the polarization beam splitter 40 or 82 in such a manner that the image components corresponding to two scanning lines can be simultaneously written into the liquid crystal cell 70 during one scanning period. In this manner, the image writing speed into the liquid crystal cell 70 is doubled as compared with the previously proposed system without increasing the scanning speed of the scanner 50, the output of the laser beam sources 21 and 31 or the sensitivity of the liquid crystal cell 70. Also, a low speed scanner such as a galvanometer type scanner can be used as the scanner 50. In the described embodiments, the colouring matter is added to the liquid crystal material of the liquid crystal cell 70 so as to promote absorption of the laser beam from the laser beam sources 21 and 31. Moreover, an absorption layer such as cadmium tellurium can be used instead of adding colouring matter. In this case, the display apparatus can be applied to the light reflecting type projection display apparatus.