# Process for the preparation of sulphurized overbased salicylates.

## Abstract
Process for the preparation of sulphurized overbased metal aliphatic hydrocarbon substituted salicylates by sul phurization of an aliphatic hydrocarbon substituted salicylic acid or a metal salt thereof with a sulphur halide, and subsequently by transforming the reaction product into an overbased metal salicylate.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Process for the preparation of sulphurized overbased metal aliphatic hydrocarbon substituted salicylates by sulphurization of an aliphatic hydrocarbon substituted salicylic acid or a metal salt thereof with a sulphur halide and subsequently by transforming the reaction product into an overbssed metal salicylate. 2. Process according to claim 1, wherein the metal of the overbased metal salicylate is an alkaline earth metal. 3. process according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the aliphatic hydrocarbon substituted salicylic acid is a C2 0 alkyl salicylic acid. 4. Process according to any one of claims 1 3, wherein the molar ratio of S substituted salicylic acid or salicylate is 0.25 to 3. 5. Process according to any one of claims 1 4, wherein the product before or after sulphurization is reacted with a boron compound. 6. Prod whenever prepared according to any one of claims 1 5. 7. Oil composition, in particular lubricating oil composition or concentrate or fuel, comprising an oil and 0.001 65 w of a product as claimed in claim 6.

## Description
PROCESS FOR THE PREPARATION OF SULPHURIZED OVERBASED SALICYLATES This invention relates to a process for the preparation of sulphurized overbased metal aliphatic hydrocarbon substituted salicylates by sulphurization of an aliphatic hydrocarbon substituted salicylic acid or a metal salt thereof, to products thus prepared and to oil catpositions containing them. From British patent specification 1,287,812 such products and oil compositions containing them as detergents and wear inhibitors are already knawn. It discloses the reaction of an aliphatic hydrocarbon substituted salicylic acid, or a metal salt thereof, with elemental sulphur, an alkaline earth base, e.g. a hydroxide, and a solvent, such as ethylene glycol, at at least 150 CC, and optionally further reaction with carbon dioxide. A similar process is disclosed in British patent specification 1,194,503. However, it has been found that this known process shows the disadvantage of a substantial degree of decarbcsylation during the reaction with elemental sulphur. It has now been found that a much lower degree of decarboxylation can be obtained by reaction with a sulphur halide instead of with elemental sulphur. This invention therefore relates to a process for the preparation of sulphurized overbased, metal aliphatic hydrocarbon substiturted salicylates by sulphurization of an aliphatic hydrocarbon substituted salicylic acid or a metal salt thereof with a sulphur halide, and subsequently by transforming the reaction product into an overbased metal salicylate. The invention furthermore relates to the products thus prepared and to oil compositions containing them. Suitable metals of the overbased metal salicylates are e.g. alkali metals, such asLi, Cs, Na and K, alkaline earth metals, such as Ca, Ba, Sr and Mg, and polyvalent metals, such as Zn and Cr. Alkaline earth metals, such as calcium, barium and magnesium, are preferred. Suitable aliphatic hydrocazbonsubstituted salicylic acids are described in the abcre centioned British patent specifications.Preferred are C8 30 alkyl salicylic acids. As metal salt of the aliphatic hydrocarbon substituted salicylic acid an alkalitmetal salt, in particular the sodium salt, is preferred. The sulphurization with sulphur halide is preferably carried out in a solvent such as aliphatic hydrocarbons, e.g. n hexane. The use of aromatic solvents, such as xylene, should be avoided otherwise these solvents may also be sulphurized with the sulphur halide. Preferred sulphur halides are sulphur chlorides, such asSCl2 and S2Cl . The e reaction can be carried out at ambient temperature, although some heating may be applied, e.g. up to 60 OC. The molar ratio of S substituted salicylic acid or salicylate is e.g. 0.25 to 3 preferably 0.5 to 2. The reaction mixture may then be acidified, if necessary, to obtain the free sulphurized acid and filtered if desirable. The product is used for the preparation of the corresponding overbased salicylates which codeine good detergency with reduced wear in lubricating oil compositions. The overbasing step can be carried out by reacting the resulting product in a solvent, such as a hydrocarbon solvent, preferably an aromatic hydrocarbon solvent, such as xylene, with a basic matal compound, preferably a hydroxide, and carbon dioxide, as described in e.g. British patent specification 786167. The degree of overbasing is expressed as the basicity index tB.I. , defined as the equivalent ratio of metal salicylic acid. To the resulting reaction mixture a light mineral oil may be added and then the hydrocarbon solvent, and any water finned may be removed by distillation. The resulting oil solution of the sulphurized product may be filtered, if desired, and then be added to an oil, such as a lubricating oil or a fuel oil, including gasoline. Before or after sulphurization the product may be reacted with a boron compound, such as boric acid, as described in the copendingBritish patent application 8330441. The reaction products of this invention including mixtures thereof can be incorporated in oil coppositions, insparticular lubricating oil compositions or concentrates or fuels, e.g., automotive crankcase oils, in concentrations within the range of 0.001 to 65, in particular 0.1 to 15 w based on the weight of the total catpositions. The lubricating oils to which the additives of the invention can be added include not only mineral lubricating oils, but synthetic oils also. Synthetic hydrocarbon lubricating oils may also be employed, as well as non hydrocarbon synthetic oils including dibasic acid esters such as di 2 ethyl hexyl sebacate, carbanate esters, phosphate esters, halogenated hydrocarbons, polysilicones, polyglycols, glycol esters such as C13 oxo acid diesters of tetraethylene glycol, etc. Mixtures of these oils, in particular of mineral lubricating oils, including hydrogenated oils, and synthetic lubricating oils, can also be used. When used in gasoline or fuel oil, e.g., diesel fuel, etc., then usually 0.001 to 0.5 w, based on the weight of the total composition of the reaction product will be used. Usually concentrates comprising e.g. 15 to 65 w of said reaction product in a hydrocarbon diluent and 85 to 35 w mineral lubricating oil, are prepared for ease of handling. In the above compositions other additives may also be present, including dyes, pour point depressants, anti wear, e.g., tricresyl phosphate, zinc dithiophosphates, antioxidants such as phenylalpha naphthyl amine, bis phenols such as 4,4 tthylene bis 3,6 di tert butylphnol , viscosity index imprcvers, such as hydrogenated co polyrnrs of conjugated dienes and optionally styrene, ethylene higher olefin copolymers, polymethylacry lates, polyisobutylene, and the like as well as ashless dispersants, such as reaction products of polyisubutylene, maleic anhydride and amines and or polyols, or other metal containing detergents, such as overbased metal salicylates. Reaction products of amines, formaldehyde and aLkyl phenols Mannich bases can also be present. The invention is further illustrated by the followingExamples. EXAMPLE 1 To 500 g of a concentrate of 65 w Na salt of C14 18 alkylsalicylic acids 600 meg acid, acid number 1.20 meq g , in 35 w mineral lubricating oil were added drop wise 360 meq 30 g S2C12 at about 25 OC. Total reaction time of addition and after reaction 5 h. The reaction product was acidified with concentrated HCl, extracted with diethylether, and after phaseseparation filtrated, whereafter the solvents were removed by evaporation. Yield 491 g, S 3.4 w, acid number 1.24 megig Product A .Comparative Experiment 1 To 500 g of a concentrate of the Na salt of C14 18 alkylsalicylic acids of Example 1 were added 590 meg 19 g S and 4 g ethylene glycol. The mixture was heated under stirring to 125 0C and kept at that temperature during 1 h. The temperature was then raised to 150 0C and kept at that temperature for one hour at a pressure of about 550mm Hg. Then the temperature was raised to 195 0C and the pressure lowered to 50 60 mm Hg, these conditions were maintained for two hours.The reaction product was then allowed to cool to about 100 0C before filtering through filter aid, to yield 554 g of product Product B , having an S content of 2.9 w and an acid number of 0.39 meq g.Conclusion compared with S2C12 the reaction with S resulted in a oonsiderable degree of decarboxylation.EXAMPLE 2 To 100 meg 51.8 g neat C14 18 alkylsalicylic acids acid number 1.93 meq g were added 60 meg 4 g S2Cl2 l2 in 6 ml n hexane at about 25 C according to Example 1. The reaction product was washed with water, and after phase separation the solvents were removed by evaporation. Yield 52.2 g, S 3.5 w, acid number 1.96 meglg Product C .Comparative Experiment 2 To 193 meg 100 g neat C14 18 alkylsalicylic acids ofExample 3 were added 193 meg 6.2 g S and 193 meg 7.2 g Ca OH 2 and 1.5 g ethylene glycol. The mixture was reacted according toExample 2. Yield 102 g, S 3.0 tw, acid number 1.45 meglg Product D .Conclusion compared with S2C12 the reaction with S resulted in a considerable degree of decarboxylation. EXAMPLE 3 1855 g 3636 meq of the sulphurized C14 18 alkylsalicylic acids of Example 3 were diluted with 6280 g of xylene and 808 g of methanol. This mixture was reacted with 188.3 g 5090 meq ofCa OH 2 for 1 h at 55 C. The reaction product was centrifuged, 1500 g of mineral lubricating oil was added and the solvents were evaporated yielding 3775 g of an oil concentrate with 2.8 w Ca and a B.I. of 1.27 Product E . EXAMPLE 4 A solution of 200 g 392 meg of the sulphurized C14 18 alkylsalicylic acids of Example 3 in 400 g of xylene and 60 g of methanol was treated with 60 g 1622 meq of Ca OH 2 for 1 h at 55 OC, Subsequently 14.0 g of CO2 633 meq0 was introduced. Work up yielded 253.6 g of a product with 8.53 w Ca, 2.72 w S and a B.I.of 2.6 Product F .EXAMPLE 5 A solution of 500 g 980 meq of the sulphurized C14 18 alkylsalicylic acids of Example 3 in 1000 g of xylene and 150 g of methanol was treated with 345 g 9310 meq of Ca OH 2 for 1 h at 55 C. Subsequently 151 g of C02 6860 meq was introduced. Work up yielded 840 g of a product with 18.08 w Ca, 1.80 w S and a B.I.of 7.9 Product G .