# Preparation of tamoxifen.

## Abstract
It has been a problem to prepare the anti cancer drug Tamoxifen, of formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process of preparing Tamoxifen of formulaEMI13.1 which comprises 1 reacting propiophenone with a 4 2 haloethoxy benzophenone of formulaEMI13.2 X being chlorine, bromine or iodine in a substantially dry and inert atmosphere and in a medium containing a reducible titanium compound and a reducing agent effective to generate titanium of substantially zero valence state to give the intermediate compound 1, 2 diphenyl 1 4 2 haloethoxy phenyl 1 butene, of formulaEMI13.3 X being as defined above, and 2 reacting the intermediate compound of formula 3 with dimethylamine. 2. A process according to Claim 1, wherein in step 1 the reducible titanium compound is titanium tetrachloride. 3. A process according to Claim 2, wherein the reducing agent is zinc. 4. A process according to Claim 1, wherein in step 1 the reducible titanium compound is titanium trichloride and the reducing agent is lithium. 5. A process according to Claim 1, 2, 3 or 4, wherein step 1 is carried out in 1,2 dimethoxyethane or in tetrahydrofuran. 6. A process according to Claim 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5, wherein step 2 is carried out at a temperature of 60 to 1000C in a sealed vessel.

## Description
PREPARATION OF TAMOXIFENBackground of the invention 1. Field of the invention This invention relates to the preparation of Tamoxifen.Description of the prior art Tamoxifen is Z 1 ,2 diphenyl 1 4 2 N,N dimethylaminoethoxy phenyl l butene of formulaEMI1.1 Its anti oestrogenic properties have led since 1971 to its clinical use in the treatment of malignant tumours, especially oestrogen receptor positive breast cancer. The Z isomer only is useful for this application and its purity, with respect to absence of the E isomer as contaminant is critical, since the latter is an oestrogen agonist and may counteract the anti oestrogenic effect of the 2 isomer. In this specification the Z isomer is referred to simply as Tamoxif en, the E isomer is referred to as E Tamoxifen, and mixtures of the isomers as EZ Tamoxifen. UK Patent Specification 1064629 I.C.I. describes separatingEZ Tamoxifen into the individual isomers by crystallisation of theEZ mixture or a salt generally the citrate from a suitable solvent.A separation of EZ Tamoxifen into its isomers by crystallisation from methanol and petroleum ether respectively has also been described by the I.C.I. investigators G R Bedford and D N Richardson,Nature 212, 733 1966 with the semi dimethylamide of dibenzoylD tartaric acid. The method depended on the selective separation of this salt of the Z isomer in a butyl acetate medium. An intermediate in the synthesis of Tamoxifen is the phenol 1 ,2 diphenyl 1 4 hydroxyphenyl 1 butene, of formulaEMI2.1 The conversion of EZ mixtures of this phenol into EZ Tamoxifen by reaction with 2 dimethylaminoethyl chloride is known, see Example 2 of UK Specification 1,013,907. Unfortunately, no satisfactory procedure has been described for separating the EZ isomers of the phenol of formula 2 and therefore the preparation of this intermediate does not help to provide a better route to Tamoxifen. European Patent Application 84105719.3 Bristol Myers Co. filed 18 May 1984 and published 28 November 1984 as No. 126470A discribes a preparation of EZ Tamoxifen in which the Z E isomer ratio in the crude reaction product is about 2 1. TheBristol Myers process makes use of the McMurry reaction for the preparation of olefines from ketones. The NcMurry reaction has been known since 1974 and has recently been reviewed by its discoverer, Dr. J.E. NcNurry, inAccounts of Chemical Research 16, 405 411 1983 . The reaction involves a simultaneous reduction and couplingsof two ketone or aldehyde functions to produce a molecule in Which the carbon atoms of the two carbonyl groups are coupled together to form an olefinic double bond. The reduction requires a titanium compound such as the trichloride and a powerful reducing agent such as lithium or potassium.The reaction has mainly been used to make timers by the reaction of two molecules of the same ketone or aldehyde or for cyclisation of an aliphatic omega diketone or dialdehyde to produce macrocyclic compounds by coupling the chain end carbonyl functions. There have been a few experiments in coupling together different carbonyl compounds, thus forming unsymmetrical olefins, see J.E. McMurry and L.R. Krespski, Journal of OrganicChemistry, 41, 3929 3930 1976 . Benzophenone or fluorenone was reacted with acetone, cyclohexanone, 3 cholestanone, hexanal, di t buty l etone, cycloheptanone or acetophenone. In all cases but one, the mixed product predominated over the self coupled product. The authors postulated that whereas self coupling proceeds by a free radical mechanism, mixed coupling has a different mechanism.Dianions are produced by one ketone, which attaches to the other by nucleophilic addition. The authors suggest that good yields of mixed coupled product of any two ketones should be obtained if benzophenone or fluorenone is reduced to a dianion before the other is reduced to an anionradical. However, the mixed coupling McMurry reaction to yield olefines has not been pursued to any great extent and in the 1983 review, supra, Dr. McMurry concluded that this version of his reaction was not of general synthetic use. In the Bristol Myers process propiophenone is coupled with 4 2 N,N dimethylaminoethoxy benzophenone, according to the reaction scheme EMI3.1 Surprisingly the mixed coupling reaction gives a product in which the desired Z isomer predominates. Working up the reaction product gave a reported yield of 51.2Z of a product said to be greater than 85Z pure EZ Tamoxifen in which the Z E isomer ratio was 97.5 1.The Bristol Myers Co. specification does not describe the preparation of 4 2 N,N dimethylaminoethoxy benzophenone, but the present inventors have obtained this compound from 4 hydroxybenzophenone in a yield of 79.3X. The maximum overall yield of pure product obtainable the Bristol Myers process is therefore 79.3 x 51.2 x 85Z 34.5X. If the EZ Tamoxifen mixture had been 90X pure the maximum yield would have been 36.52. Such yield figures are, however, optimistic, considering that purification of the EZ Tamoxifen mixture would inevitably result in a greater than theoretical loss of yield, so that a yield of pure product of, say, 30X would be a more realistic expectation.Summary of the invention At the first priority date 12 June 1984 of the present application the inventors were unaware of the earlier pending patent application of Bristol Myers Co. and had independently made the surprising finding that when propiophenone is coupled with an appropriately substituted benzophenone, the mixed coupling reaction gives a product in which the Z isomer predominates very substantially over the E. As far as was known to the inventors, no one had previously investigated the mixed coupling McMurry reaction for stereospecific synthesis. The present inventors research, however, was not limtied to the one step reaction of propiophenone with 4 2 N,N dimethylaminoethoxy benzophenone. They have found that the yield ofTamoxifen can be increased by proceeding in two steps, in which the McMurry reaction is carried out on propiophenone with a 4 2 haloethoxy benzophenone to yield an intermediate, 1 , 2 diphenyl 1 4 2 haloethoxy phenyl 1 butene, which is then reacted with dimethylamine. To compare the yield with the Bristol Myers process one has to consider 4 hydroxybenzophenone as the starting point. The present inventors have obtained an overall yield of 87.5 x 54.2 x 83.or 39.4t of a product of analytical purity.However, the Bristol Myers product was not of analytical purity apart from the 15Z or so impurities, it had an E isomer content of 1X . Probably a fair comparison would be between the 34.5Z yield from the Bristol Myers process and the 87.5 x 54.2 x 94.7t 44.9t yield of Tamoxifen obtained by the present process before the final chromatography required to give an analytically pure product. At all events it is clear that the present process can give a significant yield advantage. It is surprising that the present process, although superficially a less direct route, involving an extra step, gives a yield advantage and this could not have been forseen.Accordingly the present invention is belived importantly distinct from and unobvious over theBristol Myers process. According to the present invention there is provided a process of preparing Tamoxifen which comprises 1 reacting propiophenone with a 4 2 haloethoxy benzophenone of formulaEMI5.1 X being chlorine, bromine or iodine, in a substantially dry and inert atmosphere and in a medium containing a reducible titanium compound and a reducing agent effective to generate titanium of substantially zero valence state, to give the intermediate compound 1 ,2 diphenyl 1 4 2 haloethoxy phenyl 1 butene, of formula EMI6.1 X being as defined above, and 2 reacting the intermediate compound of formula 3 with d imethylamine. Description of the preferred embodiments The 4 2 haloethoxy benzophenone reactant can be prepared from 4 hydroxybenzophenone, and a 1,2 dihaloethane. Preferably the reaction is carried out under phase transfer conditions, with the aid of a quaternary ammonium salt phase transfer catalyst, which can be any of ones well known per se. Alternatively a strong proton extracting agent such as a sodium alkoxide is used in the reaction. McMurry olefin synthesis reaction conditions require a reducible titanium compound and a reducing agent effective to generate titanium of low valence state, believed to be substantially zero, e.g. not normally greater than 1.2 per average atom.It is believed that the titanium is reduced to a valence state of either 2 or 0 and that typically, to yield olefins, 0 to 60X of the atoms are 2 valent and the balance zero valent. The preferred titanium salt is a chloride, but any salt of tri or tetravalent titanium is normally usable. The tetrachloride is currently preferred to the trichloride. Reducing agents include lithium, lithium aluminium hydride, potassium, zinc or a a zinc copper couple. A zinc copper couple can be prepared from zinc dust and a small amount of a copper salt in deoxygenated water. Preferably the reducible titanium compound is the trichloride and the reducing agent is lithium, or the titanium compound is the tetrachloride and the reducing agent is zinc.It is particularly advantageous to heat TiC14 with zinc, preferably at a temperature of 50 to 1000C, to pre prepare the reagent, before adding it to the ketones. The McMurry olefin synthesis reaction used in the invention is conveniently carried out using an excess of the reducing agent relative to the titanium salt of e.g. from 2 1 to 5 1 molar. The reaction is carried out in a substantially inert atmosphere, e.g. in argon or nitrogen, to prevent premature oxidation of the reducing agent. The atmosphere should also be substantially free of moisture. The reaction can be carried out at room temperature, but usually requires heat above 25 C to proceed faster. A temperature range of 15 to 100 C, preferably 15 to 70 C, and most preferably 40 to 70 C, is therefore usual for this stage. The reaction is carried out in an inert liquid medium, which is normally a solvent for the ketone reactants, preferably 1,2dimethoxyethane or tetrahydrofuran. The titanium compound will ordinarily be present in a large molar excess over the two ketones. The reducing agent is preferably used in a molar ratio of at least 3 1 relative to the titanium compound. Preferably ketones are used in substantially equimolar proportions. Otherwise the ketone in excess will usually selfcouple, producing unwanted side products. After the NcMurry reaction has been used to produce a compound having a 2 chloroethoxy, 2 bromoethoxy, or 2 iodoethoxy substituent in the 4 position of the relevant benzene ring, the product is readily convertible into Tamoxifen or a Z enrichedEZ Tamoxifen mixture in one step, using dimethylamine. This step is normally carried out in a closed environment such as a sealed vessel, and at a temperature of from 60 to 100 C, preferably 70 to 900C. Considerable variation is possible in work up procedures, which can comprise crystallisation, absorption on solids and chromatography. It is desirable to remove any dark or coloured material produced from the McMurry reaction and this will ordinarily require an absorption or chromatography step. On the other hand, work up from the product of the dimethylamine reaction will ordinarily be minimal. The following Examples illustrate the invention. Temperatures are in OC. NMR spectral data refer to the following assignations of letters to H atoms EMI8.1 X Cl, Br or I and mutatis mutandis for the E isomers. EXAMPLE 1Preparation of Tamoxifen Z 1 4 2 diethylaminoetboxy phenyll 1, 2 diphenylbut 1 ene a Preparation of 4 2 chloroethoxy benzophenone 4 Hydroxybenzophenone 13.23 g, 70 mmol was added to a solution of sodium 3.2 g in ethanol 60 ml and the resulting deep red solution stirred for 1 hour at room temperature. The solvent was removed by rotary evaporation to leave the organic sodium salt. Toluene 50 ml and 1 bromo 2 chloroethane 20 g, 140 wool were added and the mixture stirred at reflux for 18 hours. After cooling to room temperature the solid material was removed by filtration and the solvent in the filtrate was evaporated to give a pale brown oil. Crystallisation from ethanol water gave 4 2 chloroethoxy benzophenone as pale cream flakes 12.1 g, 73Z , m.p. 780. b Preparation of 1 4 2 chloroethoxy phenyll 1, 2 diphenylbut 1 ene Lithium pieces 0.45 g, 65 mmol were added to a slurry of titanium trichloride 2.87 g, 18.6 mmol in dry dimethoxy ethane 30 ml under argon and stirred under reflux for 1 hour.After allowing the black mixture to cool to room temperature, a solution of 4 2 chloroethoxy benzophenone 0.54 g, 2.0 mmol and propiophenone 0.31 g, 2.3 mmol in dry dimethoxyethane 20 ml was added and the whole stirred at room temperature for 2 hours.The mixture was then refluxed with stirring for 20 hours. After allowing thetbXack suspension to cool to room temperature, petroleum ether b.p. 60 800, 50 ml was added and the mixture was stirred for 15 minutes. The organic layer was decanted off and the solvent was evaporated to leave a brown oil 0.77 g . The oil was purified by passage down a silica gel column, eluting with hexane ethyl acetate 9 1 v v. Fractions were collected and monitored by TLC and the fractions having Rf 0.44 combined, the solvent was evaporated to give a colourless oil 0.51 g, 68X .From NMR, it was estimated that the Z E isomer ratio was between 6 1 and 9 1. This oil was dissolved in isopropanol 20 ml and the white crystals which separated on standing were removed by filtration, washed with isopropanol, and dried in a desiccator 0.29 g, 34 , m.p. 6365O. NMR showed these to be pure Z 1 4 2 chloroethoxy phenyl 1, 2 diphenylbut 1 ene. Elemental analysis. Found C 79.7, H 6.3 C24H23ClO requiresC 79.4, H 6.4X. NMR, 60 mHz on EZ mixture E a and b 3.53 4.34 m 4H c or e 7.07 s 7.07 s 5H d 6.53 7.05 6.34 6.85 4H e or c 7.21 8 7.21 s 5H f 2.38 q 2.34 q 211 g 0.92 t 0.88 t 3H IR Nujol cm 1 3000 2800 s , 1610 m , 1510 m , 1460 s , 1380 s , 1250 m , 1180 m , 1040 m , 820 m , 770 m , 705 s , 670 m . c Preparation of Tamoxifen from 1 4 2 chloroethoxy phenylj 1, 2 diphenylbut 1 ene Z 1 4 2 chloroethoxy phenyl 1 ,2 diphenylbut 1 ene 100 mg was heated vith 30Z w v dimethylamine in ethanol 3 ml for 3 days at 750 in a sealed vessel. The solvent and excess amine were removed by rotary evaporation. This product 97 mg, yield 94.7Z obtained from the reaction is already of high purity but to prepare it in analytical purity, for NMR spectroscopy, it was chromatographed on a silica gel column chromatography, using as eluant chloroform methanol 9 1 v v. Crystallisation from chloroform hexane gave white needles 85 mg, 83.0X yield identified by NMR as Z 1 14 t2 dimethylamino ethoxy phenyli 1 ,2 diphenylbut 1 ene. Elemental analysis.Found C 84.2, H 8.1, N 3.5. C26H29NO requires C 84.1, 11 7.9,N 3.8X. EXAMPLE 2Preparation of Tamoxif en a Preparation of 4 2 bromoethoxy benzophenone Example 1, step a was repeated, using 1,2 dibromoethane instead of 1 bromo 2 chloroe thane. 4 2 Bromoethoxy benzophenone was obtained as an off vhite solid, m.p. 62 640, yield 70Z. b Preparation of 1 4 2 bromoethoxy phenyll 1, 2 diphenylbut 1 ene Example 1, step b was repeated, using 4 2 bromoethoxy benzophenone instead of the 4 2 chloroethoxy benzophenone, and with the minor variations that after addition of the petroleum ether, stirring was for 10 minutes and fractions having Rf 0.45 were collected. The product obtained from the chromatography was a colourless syrup 0.45 g, 46Z . The syrup was dissolved in isopropanol and white crystals formed on standing. These were shown to be a mixture of about 4 1 Z and E 1 t4 2 bromoethoxy phenyl 1,2 diphenylbut 1 enes, respectively. Elemental analysis. Found C 71.0, H 5.5. C24H23BrO requiresC 70.8, H 5.7Z. NMR, 60 mllz on EZ mixture E Z a and b 3.37 m 4.33 m c or e 7.05 s 7.05 a 5H d 6.54 7.30 6.35 6.82 4H e or c 7.21 s 7.21 s 511 f 2.40 q 2.37 q 2H g 0.88 t 0.83 t 3H IR Nujol cm Ú 3000 2800 s , 1610 m , 1510 m , 1460 s 1380 s , 1290 m , 1250 s , 1175 m , 820 m , 770 m , 715 s . c Preparation of Tamoxifen from 1 4 2 bromoethoxy phenyli 1 , 2 diphenylbut 1 ene The preparation of Tamoxifen followed the procedure of Example 1, step c using the above prepared bromoethoxy analogue in place of the chloroethoxy compound. EXAMPLE 3 a Preparation of 4 2 chloroethoxy benzophenone 4 Hydroxybenzophenone 19.8 g , benzyl tri n butylammonium bromide 3.6 g sodium hydroxide 8.0 g water 75 ml and 1,2 dichchloroethane 75 ml were vigorously stirred together at reflux for 18 hours. The mixture was cooled, the upper aqueous layer removed and the organic layer dried over magnesium sulphate.Evaporation of the solvent in vacuo afforded a red oil which crystallised from ethanolZwater to yield 4 2 chloroethoxy benzophenone 22.8 g, 88X yield , m.p. 77 78 . b Preparation of 1 4 chloroethoxy phenyl 1, 2 diphenylbut 1 ene Titanium tetrachloride 3.4 g, 18 mmol was added dropwise to a stirred suspension of zinc powder 2.36 g, 36 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 30 cm3 at 10 under dry argon. The resulting dark mixture was heated to reflux, with stirring, and kept at that temperature for 1 hour. The solution was cooled to room temperature and a mixture of 4 2 chloroethoxy benzophenone 1.59 g, 6 mmol and propiophenone 0.80 g, 6 mmol dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 20 cm was added. The mixture was refluxed with stirring for 2 hours. After cooling to room temperature the dark mixture was poured into 10 potassium carbonate solution 200 cm , this was extracted 3 with diethyl ether 3 x 100 cm , the organic extracts combined, dried and evaporated to a yellow oil. The crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel, eluant hexane ethyl acetate, 9 1 , to give, as the major product, 1 4 2 chloroethoxy phenyl 1 , 2 diphenylbut 1 ene 1.46 g, 67Z as a colourless oil. This oil was dissolved in 2 propanol and deposited 1 4 2 chloroethoxy phenyli 1 ,2 diphenylbut 1 ene as the pure Z isomer, m.p. 6465O, yielding 1.20 g, 54.2X overall yield after filtration. c Preparation of Tamoxifen from 1 4 2 chloroethoxy phenyl 1, 2 diphenylbut 1 ene Example 1, step c was repeated. REFERENCE EXAMPLE US Patent 2,914,562, Example 3, describes the preparation of 4 2 N,N dimethyiaminoethoxy benzophenone from 4 hydroxybenzophenone, using sodium methoxide and N,N dimethylaminoethyl chloride. The product is reported to have b.p. 176 180 0.3 mm. Hg but no yield is given. Chemical Abstract 53 11296e mentions a 17X yield in a similar process. The above cited Bristol Myers Co. EuropeanPatent Application does not mention how 4 2 N,N dimethylaminoethoxy benzophenone is prepared. The present inventors best preparation of this compound is as follows. The sodium salt of 4 hydroxybenzophenone 10 g , 1 N,Ndimethylamino 2 chloroethane from its hydrochloride, 25.5 g in toluene 100 ml were heated under reflux for 24 hours. Filtration and then evaporation of the solvent yielded a brown oil, which was distilled in vacuo to yield 4 2 N,N dimethylaminoethoxy benzophenone 9.7 g, 79.3X yield b.p. 174 179 0.3 mm Hg Z, yield 79.3X.