# Tumor necrosis factor, methods for its preparation, compositions containing it, DNA encoding it and assay method using such DNA

## Claims
Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragsstaaten BE, CH, DE, FR, GB, IT, LI, LU, NL, SE

## Description
This application relates to lymphokines. In particular, it relates to cytotoxic factors secreted by lymph cells and methods for making same in recombinant cells. Immune cells such as B cells, T Cells, natural killer cells and macrophages are known to elaborate substances that exert cytotoxic activity toward tumor cells but which are innocuous to normal cells. These substances have been variously named, for example, lymphotoxin, tumor necrosis factor, NK cell cytotoxic factor, hemorrhagic necrosis factor, macrophage cytotoxin or macrophage cytotoxic factor. At the present time the identities of the proteins associated with these names are unclear. The principal difficulties have been that the biological assays employed to detect the proteins do not discriminate among them, the proteins appear to be found in nature as aggregates or hydrolytic products, and the amounts heretofore obtained have been so small that the high degree of purification needed to fully characterize the proteins has not been reached. Typically, such cytotoxic substances are found in the sera of intact animals, or in the culture supernatants of lymph cells or cell lines after the animals or cells had been treated with a substance known to stimulate the proliferation of immune cells an inducer . Thereafter the serum or supernatant is recovered and assayed for cytotoxic activity towards a target tumor cell line. A standard target is L 929, a murine tumor cell line. This cell line and others used in bioassays of this type are nonspecific in their lytic response because a variety of apparently discrete lymph cell products are able to effect lysis. Similar nonspecific responses are observed in Cytotoxic factors tentatively have been classified on the basis of the lymph cells from which they are induced. For example, lymphotoxin is a name commonly applied to the cytotoxic secretory products of B or T lymphocytes, or cell lines derived therefrom, while tumor necrosis factor often is used to describe cytotoxic products of macrophages or their derived cell lines. This classification system, however, has not been developed to the point where there is any assurance that only a single protein is being referred to, or that proteins referred to by different name are in fact different. Attempts have been made to purify and characterize the cytotoxic factors secreted by each cell type. To the extent that reports vary as to a property of a cytotoxic factor, or are completely inconsistent as to a given property, it could be concluded either that the characterization was erroneous or that a plurality of discrete cytotoxic factors are secreted by each cell type. For example, the cytotoxic products derived from macrophages, monocytes or monocytic cell lines, while sometimes generally referred to as tumor necrosis factor, have been reported to have properties that appear inconsistent with a theory of a single cytotoxic product. See for example the following literature R. MacFarlan On the other hand C. Zacharchuk The attempts at characterization of immune cytotoxic factors also have focused on using as starting material the sera or peritoneal fluid of animals that have been exposed to immunogenic antigens. These sources contain the entire cornucopia of the stressed immune system, in contrast to the product or products of a single cell type or line. The following should be consulted as examples of publications of this type S. Green Further literature which should be consulted is J. Nissen Meyer European Patent Application Publn. No. 100641 describes a cytotoxic polypeptide which was purified substantially free of impurities from a human lymphoblastoid cell culture. This polypeptide was designated lymphotoxin, although its relationship to other reported cytotoxic polypeptides under the name lymphotoxin is conjectural. It was not known whether this was the sole cytotoxic polypeptide elaborated by immune cells, as suggested by Zacharchuk The polypeptide of the 641 Application has two amino termini, a larger variant ending with Leu Pro Gly Val Gly Leu Thr Pro Ser Ala Ala Gln Thr Ala Arg Gln His Pro Lys Met His Leu Ala His Ser Thr.... and a smaller variant with the truncated amino terminus His Ser Thr Leu Lys Pro Ala Ala ... According to the prior literature the interferons, which exhibit some tumor inhibitory activity, and a poorly characterized protein having an AlaAla amino terminus U.K. Patent Application Publn. No. 2,117,385A , were candidates for non lymphotoxin cytotoxic factors. As will be seen, the tumor necrosis factor of this invention is not an interferon, is not lymphotoxin and does not have an AlaAla amino terminus. In Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci Embodiments of the invention make it possible to attain one or more of the following objects Thus in a first aspect the invention provides a method for preparing a tumor necrosis factor from an admixture with other proteins, comprising adsorbing the tumor necrosis factor from such admixture onto a substance selected from In a second aspect the invention provides human tumor necrosis factor as defined in claims 4 6. In further aspects the invention provides tumor necrosis factor TNF as defined in claims 7 17 DNA encoding such TNF cells transformed with the DNA and compositions comprising the TNF optionally including an interferon. A cytotoxic factor has been purified to homogeneity, characterized and expressed in recombinant culture. This factor is designated tumor necrosis factor TNF for convenience and is defined below. It is provided in substantially homogeneous form from cell culture at a specific activity of greater than about 10 million units mg protein, and ordinarily about 100 million units mg. Human tumor necrosis factor synthesized in recombinant culture is characterized by the presence of non human cell components, including proteins, in amounts and of a character which are physiologically acceptable for administration to patients in concert with the tumor necrosis factor. These components ordinarily will be of yeast, procaryotic or non human higher eukaryotic origin and present in innocuous contaminant quantities, on the order of less than about 1 percent by weight. Further, recombinant cell culture enables the production of tumor necrosis factor absolutely free of homologous proteins. Homologous proteins are those which are normally associated with the tumor necrosis factor as it is found in nature, e.g. in cells, cell exudates or body fluids. For example, a homologous protein for human tumor necrosis factor is human serum albumin. Heterologous proteins are the converse, i.e. they are not naturally associated or found in combination with the tumor necrosis factor in question. As specified in the claims hereof, DNA is provided that encodes tumor necrosis factor and which, when expressed in recombinant or transformed culture, yields copious quantities of tumor necrosis factor. EP 155549A, mentioned under Art. 54 3 EPC, discloses the deduced amino acid sequence for a precursor TNF resulting from cloning cDNA derived from human cells, and its expression in a recombinant host. Various modifications of the amino acid sequence are proposed, but none which specifies the N terminus of mature human TNF as disclosed in the present application. Chromosomal DNA encoding TNF is obtained by probing genomic DNA libraries with cDNA. Chromosomal DNA is free of flanking regions encoding other proteins but may contain introns. The isolated tumor necrosis factor DNA is readily modified by substitution, deletion or insertion of nucleotides, thereby resulting in novel DNA sequences encoding tumor necrosis factor or its derivatives. These modified sequences are used to produce mutant tumor necrosis factor and to directly express mature tumor necrosis factor. The modified sequences also are useful in enhancing the efficiency of tumor necrosis factor expression in chosen host vector systems, e.g. by modification to conform to a host cell codon preference. These novel DNA sequences or fragments thereof are labelled and used in hybridization assays for genetic material encoding tumor necrosis factor. In processes for the synthesis of tumor necrosis factor, DNA which encodes tumor necrosis factor is ligated into a replicable reproducible vector, the vector used to transform host cells, the host cells cultured and tumor necrosis factor recovered from the culture. This general process is used to construct tumor necrosis factor having the characteristics of monocyte tumor necrosis factor or to construct novel derivatives of tumor necrosis factor, depending upon vector construction and the host cell chosen for transformation. The tumor necrosis factor species which are capable of synthesis herein include mature valyl amino terminal tumor necrosis factor, pretumor necrosis factor preTNF , defined herein , and derivatives of TNF including a fusion proteins wherein TNF or any fragment thereof including mature tumor necrosis factor is linked to other proteins or polypeptides by a peptide bond at the amino and or carboxyl terminal amino acids of TNF or its fragments, b TNF fragments, including mature tumor necrosis factor or fragments of preTNF in which any preprotein amino acid is the amino terminal amino acid of the fragment, c mutants of TNF or its fragments including mature tumor necrosis factor wherein one or more amino acid residues are substituted, inserted or deleted, and or d methionyl or modified methionyl such as formyl methionyl or other blocked methionyl species amino terminal addition derivatives of the foregoing proteins, fragments or mutants. Ordinarily, if a mammalian cell is transformed with a a vector containing the entire tumor necrosis factor structural gene including a 5 start codon , or b the gene for mature tumor necrosis factor or a tumor necrosis factor derivative operably ligated to a eukaryotic secretory leader which may also include the tumor necrosis factor secretory leader presequence , and the cell cultured, then mature tumor necrosis factor is recovered from the culture. Similarly, if DNA which encodes TNF is operably ligated in a vector to a secretory leader which is properly processed by the host cell to be transformed usually the organism from which the leader sequence was obtained , the host transformed with the vector and cultured, then the tumor necrosis factor is synthesized without amino terminal methionyl or blocked methionyl. In particular, Also within the scope of this invention are derivatives of tumor necrosis factor other than variations in amino acid sequence or glycosylation. Such derivatives are characterized by covalent or aggregative association with chemical moieties. The derivatives generally fall into three classes salts, side chain and terminal residue covalent modifications, and adsorption complexes. If DNA encoding mature tumor necrosis factor is operably ligated into a vector, the vector used to transform a host cell and the cell cultured, mature tumor necrosis factor is found in the cell cytoplasm. Accordingly, it is unnecessary to devise secretion systems in order to obtain mature tumor necrosis factor. This was surprising because, ordinarily, direct expression yields methionylated protein. Further, the protein is stable and soluble in recombinant cell culture, i.e., it is neither proteolytically cleaved by intracellular proteases nor deposited as refractile bodies. Accordingly, novel fermentations are provided that comprise lower eukaryotic or prokaryotic cells having unmethionylated mature tumor necrosis factor located within the cytoplasm of such cells. While tumor necrosis factor may be prepared by culturing animal cell lines, e.g. a monocytic cell line induced by growth in the presence of 4 beta phorbol 12 myristate 13 acetate PMA or immortal cell lines such as hybridomas or EBV transformed cells U.S. Patent 4,464,465 , it is preferable to synthesize tumor necrosis factor in recombinant cell culture as described further below. Once tumor necrosis factor is prepared by fermentation it generally is purified by recovering the supernatant culture fluid or lysed cell culture, removing solids, adsorbing tumor necrosis factor from the supernatant admixture containing tumor necrosis factor and other proteins onto a hydrophobic substance, eluting tumor necrosis factor from the substance, adsorbing tumor necrosis factor onto a tertiary amino anion exchange resin, eluting tumor necrosis factor from the resin, adsorbing tumor necrosis factor onto an anion exchange resin preferably quaternary amino substituted having substantially uniform particle size, and eluting tumor necrosis factor from the resin. Optionally, the tumor necrosis factor compositions are concentrated and purified by chromatofocusing at any point in the purification procedure, for example by isoelectric focusing or passage through a sieving gel such as Sephadex G 25. The purified tumor necrosis factor from recombinant or induced cell culture is combined for therapeutic use with physiologically innocuous stabilizers and excipients and prepared in dosage form as by lyophilization in dosage vials or storage in stabilized aqueous preparations. Alternatively, tumor necrosis factor is incorporated into a polymer matrix for implantation into tumors or surgical sites from which tumors have been excised, thereby effecting a timed release of the tumor necrosis factor in a localized high gradient concentration. The compositions herein are obtained free of contaminant cytotoxic factors such as lymphotoxin, interferons or other cytotoxic proteins referred to in the literature. However, in therapeutic applications tumor necrosis factor is advantageously combined with predetermined amounts of lymphotoxin and or interferon. Compositions containing tumor necrosis factor and an interferon such as gamma interferon are particularly useful since they have been found to exert a synergistic cytotoxic activity. Tumor necrosis factor compositions are administered to animals, particularly patients bearing malignant tumors, in therapeutically effective doses. Suitable dosages will be apparent to the artisan in the therapeutic context, as is further described Tumor necrosis factor is defined for the purposes herein as a polypeptide other than lymphotoxin capable of preferential cytotoxic activity and having a region showing functional amino acid homology with the mature tumor necrosis factor amino acid sequence set forth in Fig. 10, a fragment thereof, or a derivative of such polypeptide or fragment. Preferential cytotoxic activity is defined as the preferential destruction or growth inhibition of tumor cells when compared to normal cells under the same conditions. Preferential cytotoxic activity is detected by the effect of the polypeptide on tumor cells The specific activity of TNF is cast in terms of target cell lysis, rather than cytostasis. One unit of tumor necrosis factor is defined as the amount required for 50 percent lysis of the target cells plated in each well in accord with Example 1. However, this is not meant to exclude other assays for measuring specific activity, e.g. methods based on target cell growth rate. PreTNF is a species of tumor necrosis factor included within the foregoing definition of tumor necrosis factor. It is characterized by the presence in the molecule of a signal or leader polypeptide which serves to post translationally direct the protein to a site inside or outside of the cell. Generally, the signal polypeptide which will not have tumor necrotic activity in its own right is proteolytically cleaved from a residual protein having tumor necrosis factor activity as part of the secretory process in which the protein is transported into the host cell periplasm or culture medium. The signal peptide may be microbial or mammalian including the native, 76 residue presequence , but it preferably is a signal which is homologous to the host cell. Native tumor necrosis factor from normal biological sources has a calculated molecular weight of about 17,000 on sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis SDS PAGE as described Tumor necrosis factor does not appear to be a glycoprotein, as it is not retained on lectin affinity columns and analysis of the deduced amino acid sequence contains no likely glycosylation sites. Also, material produced in recombinant The degree of amino acid sequence homology which brings a polypeptide within the scope of the definition of tumor necrosis factor herein will vary depending upon whether the homology between the candidate protein and tumor necrosis factor falls within or without the tumor necrosis factor regions responsible for cytotoxic activity domains which are critical for cytotoxic activity should exhibit a high degree of homology in order to fall within the definition, while sequences not involved in maintaining tumor necrosis factor conformation or in effecting receptor binding may show comparatively low homology. In addition, critical domains may exhibit cytolytic activity and yet remain homologous as defined herein if residues containing functionally similar amino acid side chains are substituted. Functionally similar refers to dominant characteristics of the side chains such as basic, neutral or acid, or the presence or absence of steric bulk. However, tumor necrosis factor as defined herein specifically excludes lymphotoxin. Generally a polypeptide defined as tumor necrosis factor will contain regions substantially homologous with the Fig. 10 protein or fragments thereof over a continuous block of about from 20 to 100 amino acid residues in particular the blocks encompassed by residues 35 66 and 110 133. A most significant factor in establishing the identity of a polypeptide as tumor necrosis factor is the ability of antisera which are capable of substantially neutralizing the cytolytic activity of mature tumor necrosis factor as set forth in Fig. 10 to also substantially neutralize the cytolytic activity of the polypeptide in question. However it will be recognized that immunological identity and cytotoxic identity are not necessarily coextensive. A neutralizing antibody for the tumor necrosis factor of Fig. 10 may not bind a candidate protein because the neutralizing antibody happens to not be directed to specifically bind a site on tumor necrosis factor that is critical to its cytotoxic activity. Instead, the antibody may bind an Innocuous region and exert its neutralizing effect by steric hinderance. Therefore a candidate protein mutated in this innocuous region might no longer bind the neutralizing antibody, but it would nonetheless be tumor necrosis factor in terms of substantial homology and biological activity. It is important to observe that characteristics such as molecular weight, isoelectric point and the like for the native or wild type mature human tumor necrosis factor of Fig. 10 obtained from peripheral lymphocyte or established cell line cultures are descriptive only for the native species of tumor necrosis factor. Tumor necrosis factor as contemplated by the foregoing definition will include other species which will not exhibit all of the characteristics of native tumor necrosis factor. While tumor necrosis factor as defined herein includes native tumor necrosis factor, other related cytotoxic polypeptides will fall within the definition. For example, TNF derivatives like the insertion mutants, deletion mutants, or fusion proteins described above will bring tumor necrosis factor outside of the molecular weight established for native human tumor necrosis factor fusion proteins with mature tumor necrosis factor or preTNF itself as well as insertion mutants will have a greater molecular weight than native, mature tumor necrosis factor, while deletion mutants of native, mature tumor necrosis factor will have a lower molecular weight . Similarly, tumor necrosis factor may be engineered in order to reduce or eliminate susceptibility to hydrolysis by trypsin or other proteases. Finally, post translational processing of human preTNF in cell lines derived from nonprimate mammals may produce microheterogeneity in the amino terminal region, so that valine will no longer be the amino terminal amino acid. The amino acid sequence for human tumor necrosis factor deduced from its cDNA is described in Fig. 10. Mature or native tumor necrosis factor is represented by amino acid residues 1 to 157. Note that this sequence includes a 76 residue signal sequence which is believed to be removed during normal processing of the translated transcript to produce the mature protein. Trypsin hydrolysis sites are denoted by arrows. Note that the language capable of cytotoxic activity or While tumor necrosis factor ordinarily is meant to mean human tumor necrosis factor, tumor necrosis factor from sources such as murine, porcine, equine or bovine is included within the definition of tumor necrosis factor so long as it otherwise meets the standards described above for homologous regions and cytotoxic activity. TNF is not species specific, e.g., human TNF is active on mouse tumors. Therefore, TNF from one species can be used in therapy of another. Tumor necrosis factor also includes multimeric forms. Tumor necrosis factor spontaneously aggregates into multimers, usually dimers or higher multimers. Multimers are cytotoxic and accordingly are suitable for use in Derivatives of tumor necrosis factor are included within the scope of the term tumor necrosis factor. Derivatives include amino acid sequence mutants, glycosylation variants and covalent or aggregative conjugates with other chemical moieties. Covalent derivatives are prepared by linkage of functionalities to groups which are found in the TNF amino acid side chains or at the N or C termini, by means known in the art. These derivatives may, for example, include aliphatic esters or amides of the carboxyl terminus or residues containing carboxyl side chains, e.g., aspl0 O acyl derivatives of hydroxyl group containing residues such as ser52, ser3, ser4 or ser5 N acyl derivatives of the amino terminal amino acid or amino group containing residues, e.g. lysine or arginine and derivatives of cysl0l and cys69. The acyl group is selected from the group of alkyl moieties including C3 to Cl0 normal alkyl , thereby forming alkanoyl species, and carbocyclic or heterocyclic compounds, thereby forming aroyl species. The reactive groups preferably are difunctional compounds known Covalent or aggregative derivatives are useful as reagents in immunoassay or for affinity purification procedures. For example, tumor necrosis factor is insolubilized by covalent bonding to cyanogen bromide activated Sepharose by methods known Mutant tumor necrosis factor derivatives include the predetermined, i.e. site specific, mutations of TNF or its fragments. The objective of mutagenesis is to construct DNA that encodes tumor necrosis factor as defined above, i.e., tumor necrosis factor which exhibits cytotoxic activity towards tumor cells The regions of the tumor necrosis molecule within residues 35 to 66 and 110 to 133 inclusive show substantial homology 50 percent with lymphotoxin. The hydrophobic carboxy termini tumor necrosis factor residues 150 to 157 of the two molecules also are significantly conserved. Since both proteins demonstrate cytotoxic activity or While the mutation site is predetermined, it is unnecessary that the mutation Tumor necrosis factor mutagenesis is conducted by making amino acid insertions, usually on the order of about from 1 to 10 amino acid residues, or deletions of about from 1 to 30 residues. Substitutions, deletions, insertions or any subcombination may be combined to arrive at a final construct. Insertions include amino or carboxyl terminal fusions, e.g. a hydrophobic extension added to the carboxyl terminus. Preferably, however, only substitution mutagenesis is conducted. Obviously, the mutations in the encoding DNA must not place the sequence out of reading frame and preferably will not create complementary regions that could produce secondary mRNA structure. Not all mutations in the DNA which encode the tumor necrosis factor will be expressed in the final secreted product. For example, a major class of DNA substitution mutations are those in which a different secretory leader or signal has been substituted for the native human secretory leader, either by deletions within the leader sequence or by substitutions, wherein most or all of the native leader is exchanged for a leader more likely to be recognized by the intended host. For example, in constructing a procaryotic expression vector the human secretory leader is deleted in favor of the bacterial alkaline phosphatase or heat stable enterotoxin II leaders, and for yeast the leader is substituted in favor of the yeast invertase, alpha factor or acid phosphatase leaders. However, the human secretory leader may be recognized by hosts other than human cell lines, most likely in cell culture of higher eukaryotic cells. When the secretory leader is recognized by the host, the fusion protein consisting of tumor necrosis factor and the leader ordinarily is cleaved at the leader tumor necrosis factor peptide bond in the events that lead to secretion of the tumor necrosis factor. Thus, even though a mutant preTNF DNA is used to transform the host, and mutant preTNF is synthesized as intermediate, the resulting tumor necrosis factor ordinarily is native, mature tumor necrosis factor. Another major class of DNA mutants that are not expressed as tumor necrosis factor derivatives are nucleotide substitutions made to enhance expression, primarily to avoid amino terminal loops in the transcribed mRNA see copending U.S.S.N. 303,687, incorporated by reference or to provide codons that are more readily transcribed by the selected host, e.g. the well known Substantially homogeneous tumor necrosis factor means tumor necrosis factor which is substantially free of other proteins native to the source from which the tumor necrosis factor was isolated. This means that homogeneous tumor necrosis factor is substantially free of blood plasma proteins such as albumin, fibrinogen, serine proteases, α globulins, non tumor necrosis factor cytotoxic polypeptides such as lymphotoxin or interferons, or other proteins of the cell or organism which serves as the synthetic origin of the tumor necrosis factor, including whole cells and particulate cell debris. However, homogeneous tumor necrosis factor may include such substances as the stabilizers and excipients described below, predetermined amounts of proteins from the cell or organism that serves as the synthetic origin, proteins from other than the tumor necrosis factor source cells or organisms, and synthetic polypeptides such as poly L lysine. Recombinant tumor necrosis factor which is expressed in an allogeneic, e.g. bacterial, host cell of course will be expressed completely free of gene source proteins. Tumor necrosis factor is preferably synthesized in cultures of recombinant organisms. Neither peripheral blood lymphocytes PBLs nor cell lines are desirable. It is difficult in practice to obtain PBLs of one class which are free of contamination by cells of other classes, e.g. to obtain macrophages free of B or T cells. Such contamination will render the separation procedure applied to the products of such cells more difficult because of other potential cytotoxic factors and proteins released by the contaminant cells. Furthermore, tumor necrosis factor obtained from nonrecombinant culture is expensive and will consist solely of native tumor necrosis factor, such cultures thereby lacking in the flexibility of recombinant culture to improve upon the characteristics of tumor necrosis factor. DNA which encodes tumor necrosis factor is obtained by chemical synthesis, by screening reverse transcripts of mRNA from PBL or cell line cultures, or by screening genomic libraries from any cell. Suitable cell line cultures comprise monocytic cell lines such as promyelocytic cell lines designated HL 60 in the art one of which is available from the ATCC as CCL 240 or the histiocytic lymphoma cell line U 937 ATCC CRL 1593 . These and other cell lines are induced to express and secrete tumor necrosis factor by exposure of the cells to chemical or physical agents known in the art, generally tumorigenic or mitogenic agents. Tumor necrosis factor can be induced effectively in certain monocytic cell lines only with PMA otherwise conventional agents such lipopolysaccharide, staphylococcal enterotoxin B, or thymosin α 1 were not as effective as PMA at inducing tumor necrosis factor in these cell lines. Since a variable amount of screening is required to locate a cell line expressing tumor necrosis factor and therefore containing the desired mRNA it may be more efficient to simply synthesize the gene. Synthesis is advantageous because unique restriction sites can be introduced thereby facilitating the use of the gene in vectors containing restriction sites otherwise present in the native sequence and steps can be taken to enhance translational efficiency, as discussed below. This DNA is covalently labelled with a detectable substance such as a fluorescent group, a radioactive atom or a chemiluminescent group by methods known The mRNA for TNF, surprisingly, is relatively rare even in induced HL 60 cells, perhaps due to instability in the messenger resulting from unknown causes. Furthermore, the time course of appearance of TNF mRNA after cell induction is important. TNF mRNA appears in the cells for only a brief period at about 4 hours post induction. In this respect its appearance is distinct from that of lymphotoxin, which appears at about 12 hours post induction. This makes the cDNA easy to overlook were one not apprised as to what to look for. However, once its presence is appreciated and completely complementary DNA made available, as is enabled by the disclosures herein, it is routine to screen cDNA libraries of induced HL 60 or PBLs for tumor necrosis factor cDNA using probes having sequences of such DNA. The two HL 60 phage libraries screened in the Examples contain a relatively consistent number of positive plaques, so it is clear that routine hybridization assays will identify phage containing the desired cDNA. Tumor necrosis factor synthesizing cells of an HL 60 cell line initially are cultured in conventional fashion until reaching a density of about 8 12 x 10⁵ cells ml. The cells are removed frown the culture, washed, transferred to serum free medium and grown in medium containing PMA. The culture then is continued until the desired concentration of tumor necrosis factor has accumulated in the culture medium, ordinarily about 400 tumor necrosis factor units ml. Thereafter the culture supernatant is preferably clarified by centrifugation or other means of separating cell debris from the soluble components. Centrifugation should be carried out at low speed so as to move only suspended particles. The supernatant is then purified as described Alternatively, and preferably, tumor necrosis factor is synthesized in host cells transformed with vectors containing DNA encoding tumor necrosis factor. A vector is a replicable DNA construct. Vectors are used herein either to amplify DNA encoding tumor necrosis factor and or to express DNA which encodes tumor necrosis factor. An expression vector is a replicable DNA construct in which a DNA sequence encoding tumor necrosis factor is operably linked to suitable control sequences capable of effecting the expression of tumor necrosis factor in a suitable host. Such control sequences include a transcriptional promoter, an optional operator sequence to control transcription, a sequence encoding suitable mRNA ribosomal binding sites, and sequences which control termination of transcription and translation. Vectors comprise plasmids, viruses including phage , and integratable DNA fragments i.e., integratable into the host genome by recombination . Once it has transformed a suitable host, the vector replicates and functions independently of the host genome, or may, in some instances, integrate into the genome itself. In the present specification, vector is generic to plasmid , but plasmids are the most commonly used form of vector at present. However, all other forms of vectors which serve an equivalent function and which are, or become, known in the art are suitable for use herein. Suitable vectors will contain replicon and control sequences which are derived from species compatible with the intended expression host. Transformed host cells are cells which have been transformed or transfected with tumor necrosis factor vectors constructed using recombinant DNA techniques. Transformed host cells ordinarily express tumor necrosis factor. The expressed tumor necrosis factor will be deposited intracellularly or secreted into either the periplasmic space or the culture supernatant, depending upon the host cell selected. DNA regions are operably linked when they are functionally related to each other. For example, DNA for a presequence or secretory leader is operably linked to DNA for a polypeptide if it is expressed as a preprotein which participates in the secretion of the polypeptide a promoter is operably linked to a coding sequence if it controls the transcription of the sequence or a ribosome binding site is operably linked to a coding sequence if it is positioned so as to permit translation. Generally, operably linked means contiguous and, in the case of secretory leaders, contiguous and in reading phase. Suitable host cells are prokaryotes, yeast or higher eukaryotic cells. Prokaryotes include gram negative or gram positive organisms, for example Prokaryotic host vector systems are preferred for the expression of tumor necrosis factor. While the tumor necrosis factor molecule contains two cysteine residues, thereby implying a modest potential requirement for post translational processing to form a potential disulfide bond, Vectors must contain a promoter which is recognized by the host organism. This is generally a promoter homologous to the intended host. Promoters most commonly used in recombinant DNA construction include the β lactamase penicillinase and lactose promoter systems Chang In addition to prokaryates, eukaryotic microbes such as yeast cultures are transformed with tumor necrosis factor encoding vectors. Suitable promoting sequences in yeast vectors include the promoters for metallothionein, 3 phosphoglycerate kinase Hitzeman Other promoters, which have the additional advantage of transcription controlled by growth conditions, are the promoter regions for alcohol dehydrogenase 2, isocytochrome C, acid phosphatase, degradative enzymes associated with nitrogen metabolism, and the aforementioned metallothionein and glyceraldehyde 3 phosphate dehydrogenase, as well as enzymes responsible for maltose and galactose utilization. In constructing suitable expression plasmids, the termination sequences associated with these genes are also ligated into the expression vector 3 of the tumor necrosis factor coding sequences to provide polyadenylation of the mRNA and termination. In addition to microorganisms, cultures of cells derived from multicellular organisms may also be used as hosts. This, however, is not preferred because of the excellent results obtained thus far with TNF expressing microbes. In principal, any higher eukaryotic cell culture is workable, whether from vertebrate or invertebrate culture. However, interest has been greatest in vertebrate cells, and propagation of vertebrate cells in culture tissue culture has become a routine procedure in recent years The transcriptional and translational control sequences in expression vectors to be used in transforming vertebrate cells are often provided by viral sources. For example, commonly used promoters are derived from polyoma, Adenovirus 2, and most preferably Simian Virus 40 SV40 . The early and late promoters are particularly useful because both are obtained easily from the virus as a fragment which also contains the SV40 viral origin of replication Fiers An origin of replication may be provided either by construction of the vector to include an exogenous origin, such as may be derived from SV40 or other viral e.g. Polyoma, Adenovirus, VSV, or BPV source, or may be provided by the host cell chromosomal replication mechanism. If the vector is integrated into the host cell chromosome, the latter is often sufficient. In selecting a preferred host mammalian cell for transfection by vectors which comprise DNA sequences encoding both tumor necrosis factor and dihydrofolate reductase DHFR , it is appropriate to select the host according to the type of DHFR protein employed. If wild type DHFR protein is employed, it is preferable to select a host cell which is deficient in DHFR thus permitting the use of the DHFR coding sequence as a marker for successful transfection in selective medium which lacks hypoxanthine, glycine, and thymidine. An appropriate host cell in this case is the Chinese hamster ovary CHO cell line deficient in DHFR activity, prepared and propagated as described by Urlaub and Chasin, 1980, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA On the other hand, if DNA encoding DHFR protein with low binding affinity for methotrexate MTX is used as the controlling sequence, it is not necessary to use DHFR resistant cells. Because the mutant DHFR is resistant to MTX, MTX containing media can be used as a means of selection provided that the host cells are themselves MTX sensitive. Most eukaryotic cells which are capable of absorbing MTX appear to be methotrexate sensitive. One such useful cell line is a CHO line, CHO K1 ATCC No. CCL 61 . Tumor necrosis factor initially is recovered from cultures. Transformed nonsecreting cells are lysed by sonication or other acceptable method and debris separated by centrifugation, while the supernatants from secreting cells such as induced cell lines are simply separated from the cells by centrifugation. Then any one or more of the following steps may be used, or other methods entirely may be substituted. The following method was used to purify tumor necrosis factor to a degree sufficient for sequencing. This is not necessarily coextensive with the purification required for a therapeutic product. As an initial purification step, tumor necrosis factor is adsorbed onto a hydrophobic substance from the lysed culture or supernatant culture medium. The hydrophobic substance preferably is a nongelatinous hydrophobic surface such as a silicate or polyolefin, although alkyl Sepharose also is suitable. The prefered embodiment is controlled pore glass. A ratio of about 1 volume of controlled pore glass is mixed with 50 volumes of supernatant and the adsorption allowed to proceed at about 4 C without agitation over a period of about 30 minutes to 2 hours, preferably about 1 hour, under slightly alkaline conditions. The adsorbent generally should thereafter be washed with a suitable buffer to remove entrapped contaminant proteins. The adsorbed tumor necrosis factor is eluted from the hydrophobic substance by altering the solvation properties of the surrounding medium. The elution can be accomplished by passing a solution buffered at approximately pH 7 to 8.5, preferably around 8, containing 1M salt and an effective amount of an aqueous solution of a water miscible organic polyol, such as, for example, ethylene glycol or glycerin, ordinarily ethylene glycol in the range of 10 30 percent v v, preferably around 20 percent v v. Of course the optimum conditions will depend upon the polyol which is used. The tumor necrosis factor containing elution fractions are detected by Further purification is obtained by adsorption of tumor necrosis factor onto a tertiary or quaternary amino anion exchange resin. The preferred resins for this purpose are hydrophilic matrix resins such as cross linked polystyrene, dextran or cellulose substituted with alkyl tertiary or quaternary amino groups. Commercial products of this type are available as DEAE cellulose, QAE Sephadex or under the trade name Mono Q in each instance where ethyl is the alkyl substituent in each of these products . Best results are achieved with the fast protein liquid chromatography system described by J. Richey, October 1982, American Laboratory using the macroporous substantially uniform particles of Ugelstad Purification to substantial homogeneity is achieved only upon further separation on SDS PAG electrophoresis or C4 reverse phase high pressure liquid chromatography HPLC as described in the Examples below. This product, however, is not desirable for therapy because it has lost substantial activity upon exposure to SDA or HPLC organic solvent. Protein concentration was determined by the method of M. Bradford, 1976, Anal. Biochem. Tumor necrosis factor is prepared for administration by mixing tumor necrosis factor having the desired degree of purity with physiologically acceptable carriers, i.e., carriers which are nontoxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed. Ordinarily, this will entail combining the tumor necrosis factor with buffers, antioxidants such as ascorbic acid, low molecular weight less than about 10 residues polypeptides, proteins, amino acids, carbohydrates including glucose or dextrins, chelating agents such as EDTA, and other stabilizers and excipients. The carrier should be formulated to stabilize the tumor necrosis factor as a dimer and or, preferably, a trimer. this is accomplished by avoiding salts or detergents in concentrations that dissociate tumor necrosis factor into monomers. Alternatively, conditions that aggregate tumor necrosis factor into higher multimers should be avoided. Generally a nonionic surfactant such as Tween 20 is employed to exhibit excessive aggregation during purification as well as lyophilization or aqueous storage. Tumor necrosis factor to be used for therapeutic administration must be sterile. This is readily accomplished by filtration through sterile filtration membranes. Tumor necrosis factor ordinarily will be stored in lyophilized form. Tumor necrosis factor optionally is combined with other antineoplastic agents such as chemotherapeutic antibiotics actinomycin D, adriamycin, aclacinomycin A , or with agents to augment or stimulate the immune response, for example immunoglobulins such as gamma globulin, including immunoglobulins having affinity for the cell surface antigens of neoplasms. In addition, since interferons act synergistically with tumor necrosis factor in cell lysis assays, alpha, beta or gamma interferon is desirably combined with tumor necrosis factor compositions or tumor necrosis factor and lymphotoxin containing compositions. A typical formulation comprises tumor necrosis factor and gamma interferon in a unit activity proportion of about from 0.1 1 to 200 1, ordinarily 10 to 1, and may contain lymphotoxin in place of a proportion of tumor necrosis factor. These proportions, of course, are subject to modification as required by therapeutic experience. Tumor necrosis factor compositions are administered to tumor bearing animals. The route of administration is in accord with known methods, e.g. the intravenous, intraperitoneal, intramuscular, intralesional infusion or injection of sterile tumor necrosis factor solutions, or by timed release systems as noted below. Tumor necrosis factor is administered intralesionally, i.e., by direct injection into solid tumors. In the case of disseminated tumors such as leukemia, administration is preferably intravenous or into the lymphatic system. Tumors of the abdominal organs such as ovarian cancer are advantageously treated by intraperitoneal infusion using peritoneal dialysis hardware and peritoneal compatible solutions. Ordinarily, however, tumor necrosis factor is administered continuously by infusion although bolus injection is acceptable. Tumor necrosis factor desirably is administered from an implantable timed release article. Examples of suitable system for proteins having the molecular weight of tumor necrosis factor dimers or trimers include copolymers of L glutamic acid and gamma ethyl L glutamate U. Sidman The amount of tumor necrosis factor that is administered will depend, for example, upon the route of administration, the tumor in question and the condition of the patient. Intralesional injections will require less tumor necrosis factor on a body weight basis than will intravenous infusion, while some tumor types, e.g., solid tumors appear to be more resistant to tumor necrosis factor than others, e.g. leukemic. Accordingly, it will be necessary for the therapist to titer the dosage and modify the route of administration as required to obtain optimal cytotoxic activity towards the target tumor, as can be determined for example by biopsy of the tumor or diagnostic assays for putative cancer markers such as carcinoembryonic antigen, in view of any recombinant toxicity encountered at elevated dosage. Ordinarily, tumor necrosis factor dosages in mice up to about 120 micrograms kg body weight day by intravenous administration have been found to be substantially nontoxic and efficacious Tumor necrosis factor is not believed to be species specific in its cytotoxic activity, so that tumor necrosis factor other than human tumor necrosis factor, e.g. from bovine or porcine sources, might be employed in the therapy of human tumors. However, it is desired to use tumor necrosis factor from the species being treated in order to avoid the potential generation of autoantibodies. In order to simplify the Examples certain frequently occurring methods will be referenced by shorthand phrases. Plasmids are designated by a low case p preceded and or followed by capital letters and or numbers. The starting plasmids herein are commercially available, are publically available on an unrestricted basis, or can be constructed from such available plasmids in accord with published procedures. In addition, other equivalent plasmids are known in the art and will be apparent to the ordinary artisan. Digestion of DNA refers to catalytic cleavage of the DNA with an enzyme that acts only at certain locations in the DNA. Such enzymes are called restriction enzymes, and the sites for which each is specific is called a restriction site. Partial digestion refers to incomplete digestion by a restriction enzyme, i.e., conditions are chosen that result in cleavage of some but not all of the sites for a given restriction endonuclease in a DNA substrate. The various restriction enzymes used herein are commercially available and their reaction conditions, cofactors and other requirements as established by the enzyme suppliers were used. Restriction enzymes commonly are designated by abbreviations composed of a capital letter followed by other letters and then, generally, a number representing the microorganism from which each restriction enzyme originally was obtained. In general, about 1 µg of plasmid or DNA fragment is used with about 1 unit of enzyme in about 20 µl of buffer solution. Appropriate buffers and substrate amounts for particular restriction enzymes are specified by the manufacturer. Incubation times of about 1 hour at 37 C are ordinarily used, but may vary in accordance with the supplier s instructions. After incubation, protein is removed by extraction with phenol and chloroform, and the digested nucleic acid is recovered from the aqueous fraction by precipitation with ethanol. Digestion with a restriction enzyme infrequently is followed with bacterial alkaline phosphatase hydrolysis of the terminal 5 phosphates to prevent the two restriction cleaved ends of a DNA fragment from circularizing or forming a closed loop that would impede insertion of another DNA fragment at the restriction site. Unless otherwise stated, digestion of plasmids is not followed by 5 terminal dephosphorylation. Procedures and reagents for dephosphorylation are conventional T. Maniatis Recovery or isolation of a given fragment of DNA from a restriction digest means separation of the digest on polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, identification of the fragment of interest by comparison of its mobility versus that of marker DNA fragments of known molecular weight, removal of the gel section containing the desired fragment, and separation of the gel from DNA. This procedure is known generally. For example, see R. Lawn Southern Analysis is a method by which the presence of DNA sequences in a digest or DNA containing composition is confirmed by hybridization to a known, labelled oligonucleotide or DNA fragment. For the purposes herein, unless otherwise provided, Southern analysis shall mean separation of digests on 1 percent agarose, denaturation and transfer to nitrocellulose by the method of E. Southern, 1975, J. Mol. Biol. Transformation means introducing DNA into an organism so that the DNA is replicable, either as an extrachromosomal element or chromosomal integrant. Unless otherwise provided, the method used herein for transformation of Ligation refers to the process of forming phosphodiester bonds between two double stranded nucleic acid fragments T. Maniatis Preparation of DNA from transformants means isolating plasmid DNA from microbial culture. Unless otherwise provided, the alkaline SDS method of Maniatis Oligonucleotides are short length single or double stranded polydeoxynucleotides which are chemically synthesized by known methods and then purified on polyacrylamide gels. All literature citations are expressly incorporated by reference. The specific activity of tumor necrosis factor was determined by a previously described modified cell lytic assay B. Spofford, 1974, J. Immun. Tumor necrosis factor also was tested in an An HL 60 human promyelocytic cell line seed culture having a cell density of 1 x 10⁵ cells ml was grown in 2 liter roller bottles 890 cm² using 500 ml of RPMI 1640 medium Irvine Scientific, Santa Ana, CA containing 10 mM HEPES, 0.05 mM β mercaptoethanol, 100 units ml penicillin, 100 µg ml streptomycin and 10 percent fetal calf serum. After three days at 37 C, when the culture reached a cell density of 8 12 x 10⁵ cells ml, cells were harvested by centrifugation at 1000g for 10 min., washed twice with serum free RPMI 1640 medium and transferred into the same medium as described above without serum at a cell density of 15 20 x 10⁵ cells ml. Cells were grown in 2 liter roller bottles in the presence of 10 ng ml PMA. After 16 24 h, the cells were removed by filtration through a 3 µm Sealkleen filter Pall Trinity Micro Corp. Cortland, NY . The clear filtrate was assayed for tumor necrosis factor activity and used for subsequent purification and characterization. This procedure produced about 400 units of tumor necrosis factor units ml of supernatant culture medium. Human peripheral blood monocytes were also used for the production of tumor necrosis factor. Plateletpheresis residues were obtained from American Red Cross, Boston, MA, and used within 24 h of collection. The initial separation of monocytes from erythrocytes was achieved by centrifugation on Ficoll Hypaque gradients at 1000g for 30 minutes. Cells collected at the interface were washed three times with phosphate buffered saline. Monocytes derived from each donor were grown separately in 2 liter roller bottles in serum free RPMI 1640 medium at a cell density of 2.5 x 10⁶ cells ml. 1 µg ml each of Staphlococcal enterotoxin B SEB and recombinant thymosin α 1 were added to the culture and the cells incubated in a humidified atmosphere at 37 C with 10 percent CO₂. After 24 72h, depending upon the donor, the cell supernatants were harvested and processed in a similar manner to those derived from the HL 60 cell line. Tumor necrosis factor yields from PBL cultures varied widely, depending upon the inducing agents employed. Adding PMA to the induction system described above increased the cytolytic activity of cell supernatants. However, the cell supernatants contained both tumor necrosis factor and lymphotoxin determination of lymphotoxin or tumor necrosis factor in mixtures of tumor necrosis factor and lymphotoxin was made by conducting the cell lytic assay with test samples preincubated with rabbit neutralizing antibody to tumor necrosis factor or lymphotoxin and determining residual activity in the L 929 cell lytic assay . Tumor necrosis factor activity from cell culture was batch absorbed to controlled pore glass beads Catalogue No. CPG 00350, Electro Nucleonics, Fairfield, NJ equilibrated with 10 mM sodium phosphate buffer, pH 8.0, by constant stirring at 4 C. One hundred ml of glass beads were used per 5 liters of medium. After stirring for one hour, beads were allowed to settle and the supernatant was decanted off. The beads were then poured into a 5 x 50 cm column at room temperature and washed with 10 mM sodium phosphate buffer, pH 8.0, containing 1M NaCl. The tumor necrosis factor activity was eluted from glass beads with 20 percent ethylene glycol in 10 mM sodium phosphate buffer, pH 8.0, containing 1M NaCl. The elution profile of the HL 60 supernatant from the column is shown in Fig. 1. The eluate from Example 3 was directly applied to a DEAE cellulose 53 Whatman column 2.5 x 20 cm equilibrated with 10 mM sodium phosphate buffer at pH 8.0 and 0.01 percent Tween 20, at a flow rate of approximately 500 ml h. After the flow rate of the column was adjusted to 100 ml h, 4.2 x 10⁶ units of tumor necrosis factor in 1,080 ml of sample was loaded at 4 C, the column was washed with equilibration buffer and eluted with step up gradients of 75 mM 150 mM and 500 mM sodium chloride in 10 mM phosphate buffer pH 8.0 . The eluate was monitored for absorbance at 280 nm and tumor necrosis factor activity as a function of elution fractions. The results are shown in Fig. 2. The tumor necrosis factor active fraction from Example 4 was concentrated and dialyzed against 20 mM Tris HCl, pH 8.0, containing 0.01 percent Tween 20 and 1 mM sodium azide buffer A in an Amicon stir cell using a YM 10 membrane or other dialysis membrane with a molecular weight cut off below that of TNF. The membrane was washed twice with buffer A. A quaternary ammonium group substituted Sepharose bead column 9.8 µM beads in a 5 x 0.5 cm column sold as Mono Q resin, Pharmacia in a fast protein liquid chromatography FPLC unit Pharmacia equipped with a gradient programmer GP 250 and two pumps P 500 , was preequilibrated with dialysis buffers via a superloop at a flow rate of 1 ml min as further described in J. Richey, American Laboratory October 1982, page 1. The pooled washes and dialysis concentrate were loaded on the column, the column was washed with buffer A and then eluted with a linear gradient of 40 75 mM sodium chloride in buffer A. Linear gradients were programmed as follows 0 5 min equilibration buffer 5.1 15 min, 25 mM NaCl 15.1 25 min, 40 mM NaCl 25 60 min, 40 75 mM NaCl linear gradient 60 65 min, 75 mM NaCl 65.1 70 min, 100 mM NaCl 70 80 min, 100 1000 mM NaCl linear gradients 80 90 min, 100 mM NaCl 90.1 110 min, equilibration buffer. The effluent was taken as 2 ml per fractions and monitored for absorbance at 280 nm, conductivity, and for tumor necrosis factor activity. The results are shown in Fig. 3. Chromatofocusing was performed using a Pharmacia Mono P column 20 x 0.5 cm in an FPLC system as in Example 5. The biologically active tumor necrosis factor fraction eluted in fraction numbers 37 to 45 from Example 5 was concentrated and dialyzed on an Amicon stir cell with a YM 10 membrane against the column equilibration buffer, i.e., 0.025 M bis Tris HCl, pH 6.7. The sample was loaded onto the Mono P column at room temperature via a superloop at a flow rate of 1 ml min. The column was washed with equilibration buffer until the absorbance at 280 nm returned to baseline and then eluted with a linear pH gradient established by washing the column with 7.5 percent polybuffer 74 at pH 4.7 Pharmacia . One ml fractions were collected and the absorbance at 280 nm and pH of the effluent recorded. The results are shown in Fig. 4. As can be seen from Fig. 4, the isoelectric point of tumor necrosis factor was about 5.3. Fifteen percent polyacrylamide gels 11 x 16 cm with a thickness of 1.5 3.0 mm were prepared according to a modification of the procedure of U. Laemmli, 1970, Nature Following electrophoresis, one of the glass plates was removed from the gel, and the positions of the molecular weight markers were noted. The lane containing the applied tumor necrosis factor sample was then cut into 0.25 cm sections in accord with the molecular weights of the marker proteins. These gel slices were then placed in polypropylene tubes containing 1 2 ml of 10 mM ammonium bicarbonate and 0.01 percent Tween 20, pH 8, and allowed to elute for 16 h at 4 C. The eluates were then assayed for tumor necrosis factor activity and the results shown in Fig. 5. The tumor necrosis factor molecular weight on SDS gel was about 17,000, whether under reducing or nonreducing conditions, thus indicating a single chain molecule. The protein was recovered from the eluate of gel slices free of salts and low molecular weight substances by the following treatment Small columns were prepared containing 0.2 ml Sep pak C18 resin, which had been pre washed with acetonitrile, 1 propanol, 1 percent trifluoroacetic acid TFA , and distilled water and then equilibrated with 10 mM ammonium bicarbonate containing 0.01 percent Tween 20, pH 8.0. The gel eluate was loaded onto the column and the effluent collected. The resin was then washed with approximately 5 ml each of distilled water and 0.1 percent TFA, to remove free amino acids and buffer salts. Tumor necrosis factor was eluted from the resin with 1 ml of 50 percent 1 propanol in 0.1 percent TFA. Further elutions with 1 ml each of 50 percent 1 propanol in 1 percent TFA, and 99 percent 1 propanol in 1 percent TFA were also performed, but the protein was usually eluted with the first buffer. Approximately 80 percent of the tumor necrosis factor bioactivity was inactivated in this step. While the tumor necrosis factor so obtained can be employed for sequence analysis it is preferred that the HPLC effluent described below in Example 8 be used for this purpose. The molecular weight of native intact tumor necrosis factor was determined by high pressure gel permeation chromatography. The latter was carried out at room temperature using a TSK G2000 SW gel HPLC column Alltech Associates, Deerfield, IL 7.5 x 60 mm . A one ml sample of purified tumor necrosis factor from Example 5 containing approximately 1µg of protein and 15,600 units of activity was isocratically eluted from the gel column at a flow rate of 0.5 ml min, with 0.2M sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0. The column was calibrated with bovine serum albumin MW 66,000 , ovalbumin MW 45,000 , bovine carbonic anhydrase B MW 29,000 , and lysozyme MW 14,300 . One ml fractions were obtained and assayed for tumor necrosis factor activity. The fractions showing tumor necrosis factor activity eluted consistent with a molecular weight of 45,000 6,000 Fig. 6 . Tumor necrosis factor also was purified by reverse phase HPLC using C4 Synchropak columns on Water s Associates, Inc. chromatograph system as described previously W. Kohr Tumor necrosis factor was trypsin digested as follows Homogeneous tumor necrosis factor from Example 9 was dissolved, dried down and redisolved in 100 mM of ammonium bicarbonate buffer pH 8.0 containing 5 percent w w TPCK trypsin Worthington Biochemicals , 1mM CaCl₂ and 0.01 percent Tween 20 at an enzyme to substrate ratio of 1 20, incubated for 6 hours at 37 C, an additional 5 percent by w w of trypsin added and the hydrolysis mixture further incubated for 12 hours at 37 C. The reaction mixture was applied onto C4 HPLC as described above in order to separate the peptide fragments. The results are shown in Fig. 8. A total of 9 fragments were observed fragments 2 and 2 eluted together at the peak designated T2 in Fig. 8 . An additional tenth fragment is believed to not be retained by the column. Amino acid sequences for intact tumor necrosis factor from Examples 8 and 9 and the trypsin hydrolysis fragments obtained in this Example were determined by automated sequential Edman degradation using a modified Beckman sequencer model 890B equipped with cold traps. Polybrene 1.25 mg was used as a carrier in the cup. Based on the amino acid composition of the intact molecule, the molecular weight of intact tumor necrosis factor is 17,100. This figure was consistent with the SDS PAGE data and constitutes confirmation of the absence of glycosylation. Cells of the murine melanoma B16, Mason Research, Worcester, MA. a cell line of C57B1 6 origin, were seeded in a microtiter plate at 5,000 cells well and incubated for 4 hours at 37 C in a 5 percent CO₂ humidified incubator before the addition of the lymphokines. Tumor necrosis factor obtained from Example 1 was purified to substantial homogeneity by HPLC and quantitated by its activity in the above described bioassay for cytolysis of L929 cells. Similarly, purified recombinant murine gamma interferon P. Gray Total RNA from HL 60 cell cultures 4 hours after PMA induction or peripheral blood monocytes cultured as described in Example 2 was extracted essentially as reported by Ward 7.5 µg of poly A mRNA from Example 12 was converted to double stranded cDNA by the successive action of reverse transcriptase, DNA polymerase Klenow fragment, and S1 nuclease P. Gray The synthetic DNA sequence was ligated to the cDNA to create EcoRI cohesive termini. As is conventional in the art, the adaptor was synthesized chemically as two separate strands, the 5 end of one of the strands was phosphorylated with polynucleotide kinase and the two strands annealed. The cDNA 20 ng was then re isolated from a polyacrylamide gel, inserted by ligation into EcoRI digested λgt 10, packaged into phage particles and propagated in A 42 nucleotide DNA hybridization probe, based upon the preliminary amino acid sequence of tumor necrosis factor tryptic peptide TD 6 E T P E G A E A K P W Y E K was designed on the basis of published codon usage frequencies R. Grantham About 200,000 recombinant phage from the λgt 10 cDNA library were screened by DNA hybridization using the ³²P labelled 42 mer from Example 14 under conditions of low stringency in accordance with A. Ullrich The cDNA sequence obtained for λ42 4 contained the entire coding region for mature tumor necrosis factor plus a portion of its signal peptide. The correct orientation and reading frame of the DNA was deduced by comparison with the amino acid sequence of tryptic peptide T4 of tumor necrosis factor. The amino terminal valine residue of tumor necrosis factor determined by protein sequencing is indicated as amino acid 1, and is followed by 156 additional amino acids before a stop codon in reading phase is encountered. The calculated molecular weight is 17,356 daltons. The cDNA clone λ42 4 contains the entire coding region of mature TNF but lacks a complete signal peptide coding sequence as evidenced by its lack of an initiation codon. To obtain the missing sequence information, the hexadecanucleotide primer dTGGATGTTCGTCCTCC complimentary to nucleotides 855 to 870, Fig. 10 was chemically synthesized. This primer was annealled to mRNA from Example 12 and then cDNA was synthesized using the method of Example 13. A new library of about 200,000 cDNA clones was prepared in λgt10 following the method described in Example 13. This library was screened by hybridization analysis using as a probe the λ42 4 cDNA insert which had been ³²P labelled. Sixteen positive clones were obtained, the longest λ16 4 of which contained a cDNA insert extending 337 bp further 5 than the λ42 4 insert. The composite sequence of the TNF cDNA inserts of λ16 4 nucleotides 1 870 and λ42 4 nucleotides 337 1643 is shown in Figure 10. The procedure used to express the cDNA sequence for tumor necrosis factor obtained in Example 15 is set forth in Fig. 11. Phage λ42 4 from Example 15, containing the entire mature tumor necrosis factor coding sequence and a portion of the putative tumor necrosis factor secretory leader, was digested with EcoRI and an approximately 800 bp fragment containing the tumor necrosis factor coding region was recovered. This fragment was digested with Ava I and Hind III and a 578 bp fragment designated C in Fig. 11 recovered. This fragment encodes tumor necrosis factor amino acids 8 157. Two synthetic deoxyoligonucleotides designated fragment B in Fig. 11 were prepared see the construction of the adaptor sequence in Example 13 which incorporated an Xba I cohesive terminus at the 5 end, an Ava I cohesive terminus at the 3 end, a met initiation codon and codons for the first seven amino terminal amino acids of tumor necrosis factor. The codons for these amino acids were chosen on the basis of Segments B and C are then joined in a three fold ligation with a pBR322 derivative containing the trp promoter sequence with the Shine Dalgarno sequence of the trp leader peptide European Patent Application Publn. No. 36776 . The derivative is obtained or designed to contain unique Xba I and Hind III sites between the trp promoter and the Tet This method is preferred over that of Example 18. Preferably, the host for use with the above vectors is a non revertable tonA The P1 kc lysates are then made on several dap , tet Tetracycline sensitive isolates are selected from the W3110 fhuA Tn10 λphi80R transductants S. Naloy DNA is isolated from several tetracycline sensitive λphi80 phage resistant mutants and digested with SstII. The SstII digested DNA is characterized by the Southern blot procedure using radioactively labelled and SstII digested λ Tn10 DNA as a probe to determine if the Tn10 has excised R. Davis SDS gel electrophoresis of outer membrane preparations from the strain with an imprecise Tn10 excision reveal that the band assumed to be the fhuA protein has an altered electrophoretic mobility as compared to the wild type fhuA protein. The resulting protein is non functional as a λphi80 phage receptor protein. A second independent strain which also has undergone imprecise excision of Tn10 shows no fhuA protein on the SDA gel. Neither of these strains demonstrate reversion to tetracycline resistance or to λphi80 susceptability indicating that there is an imprecise excision of all or part of the Tn10 transposon together with either a partial or complete deletion of the fhuA gene. Preferably, one of such W3110 strains NL106 is used as a host for the TNF encoding vehicles described elsewhere herein. NL106 was transformed with ptrpXAPTNF and inoculated into 10 liters of a pH 7.4 medium having the following formula Glucose was fed to the culture at a rate of 1 gm minute when the A₅₅₀ of the culture reached about 20. The fermentation was conducted at 37 C until an A₅₅₀ of 136 was reached about 20 hours . The culture is centrifuged to form a cell paste and the paste then extracted for 30 min. at pH 8.0 and room temperature with a buffer containing 50 mM tris, 10 mM EDTA, 1000 mM NaCl, 2000 mM urea and 0.1 percent beta mercaptoethanol. The extract was diluted and assayed as described in Example 1. 1x10⁸ units of tumor necrosis factor activity in this assay was established as equivalent to 1 mg of tumor necrosis factor. Up to about 2 grams of tumor necrosis factor were obtained per liter of culture. Amino terminal sequencing demonstrated that about from 75 to 86 percent by weight was valyl amino terminal mature tumor necrosis factor, the remainder being met TNF. Furthermore, in addition to high expression levels the protein was not present in refractile bodies, nor did it otherwise appear to be toxic to the cells as evidenced by the extremely high cell densities that were obtained. In this contemplated example, Examples 17 18 were repeated except that the oligonucleotide fragment B was synthesized with a histidine codon CAT in place of the arginine 6 codon CGT. Mutant tumor necrosis was expressed. In this example, the procedure of Examples 17 18 was repeated with an oligonucleotide fragment B encoding leucine CTT in place of the residue 2 arginine codon. About 1200 mg of mature TNF activity were obtained per liter of culture in initial trials. Unprocessed TNF was not detectable in the culture. The sequence of the pWM501 Picken A pBR322 Trp plasmid as described in Example 17 p20kLT was digested with XbaI and HindIII, and the large vector fragment recovered fragment B . This fragment contains an A synthetic oligonucleotide was synthesized as two strands and annealed to yield the following structure the restriction site sticky ends and amino acids coded for by the oligonucleotide are also indicated . This is designated fragment C. pTNFtrp from Example 18 was digested with AvaI and HindIII. The 578 bp AvaI HindIII fragment fragment D was recovered. It contains all of the TNF coding sequence except for the first seven amino acids. A DNA sequence comprising an ligated to the plasmid and the linkered plasmid digested with an excess of EcoRI to cleave all EcoRI site and with a deficiency of RsaI activity in order to only partially cleave all of the RsaI sites the EcoRI and RsaI steps also could be done sequentially rather than simultaneously . A 420 bp fragment containing the AP promoter was recovered from the EcoRI RsaI partial digest. A trp S.D. sequence was obtained as follows. A plasmid or organism containing the trp promoter pIFN beta 2, D. Leung Fragments A, B, C and D were ligated in a four part ligation and the ligation mixture used to transform The culture was conducted in the same fashion as described above in Example 19, except that an A₅₅₀ of 140 was reached. The culture at this point contained about 400 mg of tumor necrosis factor liter, about 70 80 percent by weight of which was properly processed to the mature protein as estimated from electrophoresis gels. Approximately the same activity of tumor necrosis factor was recovered upon whole cell extraction by the method used in Example 19 as was recovered by osmotic shock of the cells. Mutant derivatives of the Fig. 10 TNF amino acid sequence are prepared to satisfy one or more of at least the following objectives To increase Preferably, TNF and its derivatives will not include TNF having a sequence corresponding to that of nonprimates, also, it preferably will not have the amino terminii of nonprimates, e.g. the desValArg amino terminus characteristic of what has been referred to as rabbit tumor necrosis factor, nor the amino terminus of the TNF gene identified to have the sequence Val Arg Ser Arg Thr Pro Ser Asp Lys Pro Val Ala Val Ser Val Ala Asn Pro Aln Ala Glu Gly Wang The following method, based on J. Adelman Other methods suitable for creating silent or expressed mutations in the tumor necrosis factor encoding DNA are known to those in the art. For example, mutant DNA is constructed by simply chemically synthesizing the entire sequence or by synthesizing a portion of the sequence and ligating the fragment into the remainder of the required DNA. Chemical DNA synthesis is advantageous when the artisan wishes to prepare the mutant directly without first obtaining from natural sources the DNA encoding tumor necrosis factor. Ordinarily, however, the starting DNA will encode the natural amino acid sequence, including its allelic variants, and it will be desired to prepare therefrom certain derivative mutants. It is desirable in preparing DNA encoding mutant TNF derivatives that codon changes not be made which create the opportunity for mRNA transcribed therefrom to form strong stem and loop structures. Avoidance of such structures will generally result in higher yields. In addition, transformant host preferred codons should be employed for the same reason. Suitable starting DNA is the EcoRI HindIII fragment of pTrpXAPTNF Example 17 obtained by sequential digestion with EcoRI and HindIII, followed by isolation of the TNF gene containing fragment. This fragment includes the trp promoter and structural gene for methionyl tumor necrosis factor. To obtain a single stranded copy of this gene suitable for mutagenesis, the EcoRI HindIII fragment is cloned into the polylinker site of phage M13 mp8 RF DNA J. Messing For site directed mutagenesis, oligodeoxyribonucleotides mutagenesis oligomers are synthesized with a sequence complementary to stretches of 15 bases on either side of the mutation site as shown in the following diagrams, wherein N indicates complementary bases and M indicates the nucleic acid to be inserted, deleted or substituted. Insertions or deletions ordinarily are made in groups of 3 in order to retain the downstream portion of the gene in phase. M₁ indicates a base or an oligomer which is not complementary to the base or oligomer M₂. Here, M₁ is the desired mutant sequence. Ordinarily, oligomers are also prepared that act to make more than one type of mutation at a time. The antisense oligomer for the Arg his 32 mutant is p CAG GAG GGC ATT GGC ATG GCG GTT CAG CCA CTG OH. The antisense oligomer for the His 73 deletion is p GTG GGT GAG GAG CAC GGT GGA GGG GCA GCC OH. The antisense oligomer for the Leu 158 insertion is p TGT TCG TCC TCC TCA AAG CAG GGC AAT GAT CCC OH. These primers are synthesized by conventional methods. For use in the mutagenesis procedure, 10 pmoles of the oligomers or Hybridization of each oligomer and the For partial heteroduplex formation, single stranded M13 mp8 TNF DNA 300 ng is heated to 80 C 2 min , 50 C 5 min , and room temperature 5 min in 20 µl 10 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 , 0.1 mM EDTA, 50 mM NaCl, containing 1 pmole each of phosphorylated oligomer and primer added as aliquots from the kinase reaction . Primer extension is started by the addition of 30 µl 50 mM Tris HCl pH 8.0 , 0.1 mM EDTA, 12 mM MgCl₂, 10 mM dithiothreitol, 0.7 mM ATP, 0.07 mM dATP, 0.2 mM each of dGTP, dTTP, dCTP, and containing 2 U The Phenol extracted heteroduplex DNA from aliquot C 10 µl is added to 10 µl 0.06 M Na acetate pH 4.5, 0.6 M NaCl, 0.6 mM ZnCl₂, and containing 200 U S₁ nuclease. After incubation at 37 C for 5 min, yeast tRNA 5µg is added and nucleic acids are recovered by phenol extraction and ethanol precipitation. Using the same S₁ conditions, 30 ng of single stranded M13 mp8 DNA about 10,000 plaque forming units yields less than 100 plaques in a DNA transformation assay, whereas the same amount of RF DNA retains more than 80 percent of its transforming properties. S₁ treated DNA is used to transform Bacterial plates 15 cm diameter containing several hundred recombinant M13 phage plaques are screened by It will be necessary to vary the stringency of the hybridization procedure by altering the concentration of SSC in order to resolve the hybridization of oligomer to the mutant DNA strand a perfect complement as opposed to hybridization to the starting DNA each mutant will vary in its ability to hybridize depending upon the nature and number of bases substituted, deleted or inserted. For example, detecting a mutation in a single base will require high stringency conditions to discriminate between mutant and unmutated parental DNA where the mutation is minor, e.g. deletion of a codon or substitution of 1 3 bases, the hybridization probe should be smaller than the mutating oligomer. Typically this will be a probe of about 14 to 20 bases. The task of screening mutant deletions is facilitated by the use of a probe containing or constituting the deleted sequence to assay for loss of the sequence. This probe fails to hybridize to DNA from a selected plaque one can conclude that the desired loss of the target sequence has occurred. A plaque that hybridizes with the labelled oligomer is picked and inoculated into M13 mp8 TNFmtnt is digested with EcoRI and HindIII and the TNF encoding fragment recovered. pTrpXAPTNF is digested with EcoRI and HindIII and the vector fragment recovered. The mutant fragment is then ligated to the vector fragment and the ligation mixture used to transform The mutants made in accordance with this method are divided into three classes Substitutions, deletions and insertions, and further subdivided as shown in the following Table. Unless otherwise stated the mutants are of the mature tumor necrosis factor of Fig. 10. Of note are mutations in which trypsin hydrolysis sites at arg 2, arg 6 see Examples 20 and 21 , arg 32 and arg 131 are deleted or modified so as to no longer be susceptible to trypsin. This might extend the half life of tumor necrosis factor The substitution of asn at asp 45 and expression in a host cell, e.g. yeast or mammalian cell , capable of glycosylation is expected to produce a glycosylated tumor necrosis factor. Plasmid TrpXAPTNF is constructed as described in Example 17 except that p20KLT or ptrpETA or pBR322 is cleaved with EcoRI and HindIII rather than XbaI and HindIII and the synthetic fragment B prepared with an EcoRI cohesive terminus rather than XbaI cohesive terminus. The ligation mixture is then used to transform Plasmid pFRPn EP 60,057A is digested with EcoRI, treated with alkaline phosphatase to prevent recircularization, ligated to the T 1 tumor necrosis factor fragment using T4 DNA ligase and the ligation mixture then used to transform Plasmid pEHER EP 117,060A is digested with EcoRI, treated with calf intestinal alkaline phosphatase, ligated to fragment T 1 from Example 25, and the ligation mixture used to transform Tissue culture cells are transfected by mixing 1 µg of pEHERTNF I or pEHERTNF II as prepared above with 10 µg rat carrier DNA in a volume of 250 µl, 0.25 M CaCl₂, followed by dropwise addition of 250 µl HEPES buffered saline 280 mM MaCl, 1.5 mM Na₂PO₄, 50 mM HEPES, pH 7.1 . After 30 minutes at room temperature, the solution is added to tissue culture cells growing in 60 mm plastic tissue culture dishes. CHO 1, CHO DHFR DUX B11, and Ltk cells are used. The dishes contain 3 ml culture medium appropriate to the host cell. For CHO 1 and CHO DHFR DUX B11 cells, the medium is Ham F 12 media Gibco supplemented with 10 percent calf serum, 100 µ ml penicillin 100 µg ml streptomycin, and 2 µmM L glutamine. For the Ltk cell line, the medium is Dulbecco modified Eagle s medium DMEM supplemented as above. After 3 16 hours, the medium is removed and the cells are washed with 20 percent glycerol in phosphate buffered saline. Fresh medium is added to each plate and the cells are incubated for 2 more days. Selection of transfected host cells is carried out by trypsinizing the cells after 2 days growth which comprises treating the cells with sterile trypsin 0.5 mg ml containing 0.2 mg ml EDTA and adding about 3x10⁵ cells to 10 mm tissue culture plates with selective media. For dhfr cells the medium is a formulation of F 12 GIBCO medium ladking glycine, hypoxanthine, amd thymidine GHT medium . For DHFR host cells, methotrexate 100 1000 nM is added to the normal growth medium. Controls are run using transfection conditions with no plasmid and with plasmid pFD 11 EP 117,060A containing normal DHFR. Colonies arising from cells which take up and express the DHFR plasmid are apparent within 1 2 weeks. Transformants are identified that express tumor necrosis factor.