# PURIFICATION PROCESS FOR HEPATITIS SURFACE ANTIGEN AND PRODUCT THEREOF

## Claims
Verfahren zum Reinigen von HBsAg, das 226 Aminosäurereste aufweist, folgende Schritte umfassend

## Description
The present invention relates to the purification of a protein produced by recombinant cells. Specifically, it provides a process for the efficient purification of hepatitis surface antigen HBsAg from cultures of recombinant cells producing this protein, particularly mammalian recombinant cells. Viral hepatitis B is transmitted by carriers of hepatitis B through blood and body secretions. HBsAg has been purified from blood serum and made into a vaccine. Purcell, R.H. and Gerin, J.L. in Formulation of hepatitis surface antigen for vaccine purposes has been performed by compounding with aluminum adjuvants such as aluminum hydroxide op cit. Viral Hepatitis and aluminum phosphate as described by Reerink Brongers, E.E., Purification of a protein such as HBsAg produced in a recombinant cell may require different techniques from those which are used to purify HBsAg from natural sources such as blood serum due to the significantly different compositions of the two sources. Thus, one cannot predict that a technique used for purification of HBsAg from natural sources would be useful for purification of HBsAg from recombinant cell sources. Predictability is diminished even further where the final product must be exceptionally pure, e.g. for use as a human vaccine. Wampler et al. Hepatitis B vaccine purification by immunoaffinity chromatography Modern Approaches Vaccines Mol. Chem. Basis Virus Virulence Immunogenecity, Pap. Conf. 1983 pub. 1984 , 251 256 discloses the preparation of compositions containing hepatitis virus antigen from hepatoma cell lines or yeast by use of affinity chromatography followed by dialysis or ultrafiltration. McAleer et al. Nature 307, 12 January 1984, p 178 180 describes purification of hepatitis virus antigen from recombinant yeast by a single application of immune affinity chromatography. US A 4,162,192 teaches a method for purifying the antigen in which a preparation undergoes precipitation followed by two ion exchange steps firstly anion exchange and secondly cation exchange. The present invention is directed to a process based upon chromatography which is successful in isolating HBsAg from recombinant cell cultures. A unique sequence of fractionation techniques is performed to produce HBsAg of high purity for use in a human vaccine. This product is free of active adventitious agents. In accordance with the present invention, a method of purifying HBsAg produced by culture of a recombinant cell provides a product of sufficient purity for incorporation into a vaccine. Cell debris is first separated from the cell culture medium which contains HBsAg. Clarified culture fluid containing HBsAg is then concentrated, preferably by ultrafiltration, and subjected to a two stage fractionation by precipitation, preferably with ammonium sulfate, in which contaminant protein is removed in the first stage and HBsAg is precipitated in the second stage. The precipitated product is redissolved and may be dialyzed to remove salts. The dialyzed HBsAg solution is then further purified by immunoaffinity adsorption followed by anion exchange chromatography. Figure 1 is a flow diagram of a method for purification of HBsAg from recombinant cell culture according to the present invention. As used herein hepatitis surface antigen or HBsAg refers to the protein with the amino acid sequence of the surface antigen in any of its forms as encoded by the hepatitis B virus genome. Such form variations are included in the definition. In addition, as is well known, protein sequences are often modified by glycosylation, acetylation, or other chemical derivatization and may be associated with lipids. Finally, those proteins can exist in various states of aggregation, such as dimers, trimers, or even large aggregates with or without the aforementioned modification. These aggregates may include lipids. All of these are intended to be included within the definition of HBsAg. As stated by Rutter, W. J. et al., EPO Patent Appln. Publ. No. 0072318, published February 16, 1983, hepatitis B virus encodes the protein of hepatitis B surface antigen, which is 226 amino acids in length with a molecular weight of 22,000 Daltons. Hepatitis B surface antigen as isolated from the serum of chronic carriers of hepatitis B virus is a spherical particle with a diameter of 22 nm and a molecular weight of 2 4 million Daltons. This particle is thought to be composed of lipid and dimers of the hepatitis B surface antigen protein. However, the precise structure of the 22 nm particle is not well defined. HBsAg isolated from cultures of recombinant mammalian cells is in the form of 22 nm particles which are indistinguishable from those derived from serum as judged by standard laboratory tests. The surface antigen isolated from recombinant yeast also appears to be in the form of 22 nm particles Valenzuela, P., The designations of the techniques employed herein are used in the sense of their standard meanings. Thus, ultrafiltration refers to the technique whereby materials of low molecular weight, water, salts and some proteins, can be separated from those of higher molecular weight by providing a molecular sieve or filter with a pore size sufficiently small to retain larder molecular weight materials. Anion exchange chromatography refers to a technique whereby anionic materials can be adsorbed onto a support and subsequently eluted by the modification of solution conditions. Gel permeation chromatography refers to a molecular sieve process which separates a mixture of molecules according to size. Each of these individual techniques is known in the art as are the range of conditions under which they may be conducted. HBsAg has been produced using a variety of microorganisms and tissue culture cells as recombinant hosts. Bacterial systems European Publication No. 0020251, published Dec. 10, 1980 , yeast systems EPO Publ. No. 073657, published March 9, 1983, and No. 0072318 and cell culture systems EPO Publ. No. 0073656, published March 9, 1983 have been used. HBsAg so produced has been shown to be immunogenic. See, e.g. EPO Publ. No. 0073656 supra . It is particularly preferred to use a cell source which secretes the protein into the medium as this allows one to begin with a more pure starting material. However, if the desired protein is not secreted, lysis of the cells by standard means such as sonication, homogenization, or osmotic shock will succeed in freeing the HBsAg into the medium, and such purification method is applicable. In one embodiment of the invention, the medium for cell culture is a defined medium composed of specified vitamins, trace elements, and other nutrients to replace serum, thus eliminating a major source of contaminating protein. In another embodiment, serum is used in the medium. Referring to the flow diagram in Figure 1, a procedure is illustrated which is applicable to purification of HBsAg whether of not the culture media contains serum. The description first will refer to the purification from cell culture medium without added serum. Referring to step 9, the host cell debris, preferably in the form of non disrupted host cells, is separated from supernatant fluid by a conventional solid liquid separation technique such as filtration or centrifugation. Referring to step 10, the soluble fraction is concentrated to a significant extent to permit an effective multi stage precipitation fractionation as described in steps 11 13, The retentate from ultrafiltration, step 10, is then fractionated by a two step process as illustrated in Figure 1, steps 11, 12 and 13. The ability to concentrate to the degree set forth above by ultrafiltration is a significant factor for obtaining good yields. Referring to step 11, the first stage of the fractionation by precipitation is particularly effective for HBsAg produced from tissue culture, specifically CHO cells. A suitable first or preliminary precipitation step is performed by adding a protein precipitating agent to the concentrate from step 10 to precipitate a first fraction of contaminant protein which is removed from the remainder of the solution by a suitable clarification technique such as centrifugation, filtration or the like. A particularly effective first stage fractionation is accomplished by adding sufficient solid ammonium sulfate to precipitate the desired amount of contaminant protein without precipitating the HBsAg. For this purpose, sufficient ammonium sulfate may be added to the concentrated cell culture at, for example, 4 8 C to produce a concentration of ammonium sulfate in the range of 20 30 of saturation, preferably 25 . Referring to step 12, the contaminant protein precipitate is removed in a clarification step, suitably performed by centrifugation or by settling followed by filtration. Referring to step 13, the supernatant fraction from clarification is subjected to a second stage of precipitation fractionation by increasing the ammonium sulfate level to an amount effective to precipitate substantially all of the HBsAg from the solution. The preferred technique to accomplish this is to increase the ammonium sulfate concentration to about 60 of saturation by adding additional ammonium sulfate. The product is precipitated and is collected by centrifugation for subsequent processing. Other protein precipitating agents may be utilized in place of the ammonium sulfate so long as they accomplish the objectives set forth above. In that regard, it has been found that polyethylene glycol, specifically, PEG 8000, may be utilized at a concentration of 2 4 w v in step 3 and 8 10 w v in step 12. Referring to step 14, the precipitate is redissolved and dialyzed to remove salts in preparation for fractionation by the ensuing chromatography steps 15 and 17. Dialysis is performed to remove salts which would interfere with chromatography. This step may be performed by dissolving the precipitate in dilute buffer, preferably at a pH of about 6 8, and dialyzing at a low temperature against dilute buffer primarily to remove the ammonium sulfate. An appropriate buffer comprises 1 50 mM Tris Cl or sodium phosphate, preferably about 10mM Tris Cl. Other methods for salt removal may also be employed such as gel filtration or diafiltration. In step 15, the solution from step 14 is purified by passage through an immunoaffinity absorbent column containing monoclonal antibodies specific for HBsAg. The HBsAg is adsorbed on the column and the contaminants either flow through the column or are washed off. Thereafter the adsorped HBsAg is desorbed by passing an appropriate eluent through the column. An appropriate immunoaffinity adsorbent column for use in step 15 is formed by covalently coupling a monoclonal antibody specific for HBsAg to a cross linked agarose such as Sepharose CL 2B Pharmacia, Inc. with carbonyldiimidazole using the method of Bethell, G.S., et.al., J. Biol. Chem. After passage of the crude culture fluid through the column, an appropriate buffered eluent such as 10 mM Tris Cl at a pH of 7.5 containing 1.0 M sodium chloride is used to wash the column. The bound HBsAg is released from the adsorbent by an appropriate eluent e.g. 0.1 M sodium acetate acetic acid pH 4.0 containing 1.0 M NaCl, or 10 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5, containing 1.0 M NaCl, 3M KSCN . In step 16, the eluent from the immunoaffinity column preferably is dialyzed or diafiltered against a suitable medium such as 10 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5, containing 0.18 M NaCl. Dialysis may be performed in a manner similar to that used in step 6. Diafiltration may be performed with an Amicon PM 10 or YM 30 membrane. In step 17, the product from step 16 is subjected to anion exchange chromatography. A suitable technique is by passage over a column of DE 52 which is washed with 10 mM Tris Cl at pH 7.5 containing 0.18 M NaCl. The eluent and wash are combined to form the purified product. In another embodiment, steps 11 14 may be eliminated for some cell cultures. HBsAg purified according to the present invention can be formulated according to known methods to prepare pharmaceutically useful compositions, whereby the HBsAg is combined in admixture with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier vehicle. Suitable vehicles and their formulation are described in Remington s HBsAg purified according to the present invention, can be formulated according to known methods to, prepare vaccines whereby the HBsAg is combined in admixture with a suitable vehicle. Suitable vehicles include various known adjuvants. Such vaccines contain an effective amount of HBsAg and a suitable amount of vehicle in order to prepare a vaccine for effective administration to the host. A particularly effective vaccine is produced by compounding HBsAg with aluminum salts in the form of a gel as an adjuvant. The gel may be formed Because of the unique methods by which the active component of these vaccines are produced, they are likely to be essentially free of extraneous protein s , viral and cellular components, and DNA. Therefore, they are less likely to produce the complications of virus vaccine preparations made from serum. It has further been found that vaccines containing HBsAg purified according to the present invention has vastly superior antigenic properties in chimpanzees than Heptavax B as reported in Hillman, M.R., The following process and results are intended to exemplify, but not limit, the invention. This example illustrates the procedure of Figure 1 for the purification of HBsAg from a cell culture medium containing serum. The concentration of serum added to the cell culture fluid may range from 0 7.5 v v. The culture fluid is filtered through a 0.22 micron Sartorius filter fabricated from cellulose acetate and cellulose to remove cells and cell debris which arise during cell culture. Approximately 100L of cell culture fluid is rapidly filtered through 2 square feet of membrane. Clarified cell culture fluid containing serum is concentrated by ultrafiltration using a Romicon hollow fiber system with a PM 100 or PM 10 type membrane. The ultrafiltration process is performed at ambient temperature at a pressure up to 25 psi. The cell culture fluid is concentrated and the retentate is drained from the system. The system is flushed with purified water which is combined with the retentate to effect a quantitative recovery of HBsAg. A permeate rate of 6 10 L hr sq.ft. is achieved with a PM 100 type membrane with a cell culture medium which contains 7.5 serum. A concentration factor equal to or greater than 20 for cell culture fluids containing equal to or greater than 1 v v added serum is required to achieve the optimum yield in the subsequent purification step. Concentrated cell culture fluid is fractionated in two steps. Sufficient solid ammonium sulfate is added to the concentrated cell culture fluid at 4 8 C to produce a concentration of 25 saturation 706 g L is used as 100 saturation at 4 C . The solution is clarified by centrifugation at 6000g for 20 minutes. The pellet is discarded and the supernatant is brought to 60 saturation in ammonium sulfate. The second stage pellet is collected by centrifugation at 6000g for 20 minutes. The yield on ammonium sulfate fractionation is dependent on the concentration factor achieved by ultrafiltration. A concentration factor equal to or greater than 35 typically achieves a maximal yield for the step. Above a concentration factor of 35, there is no substantial increase in the yield on ammonium sulfate fractionation. The second stage pellet from the ammonium sulfate fractionation is dissolved in 10mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 pH measured at room temperature in a volume in mL approximately equal to 0.25 times the original culture medium volume in liters. The solution is dialyzed at 2 8 C against 10mM Tris Cl, pH 7.5 containing 1.0M NaCl. to remove the ammonium sulfate. The combination of ultrafiltration, ammonium sulfate fractionation and redissolution of the pellet results in a concentration factor of approximately 2000 fold based on the volume of starting cell culture medium. The dialyzate is applied to an immunoaffinity column and the column is washed with 10mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 containing 1.0M NaCl. The HBsAg bound to the column is eluted with a solution of 0.1M sodium acetate pH 4.0 containing 1.0M NaCl. The procedure is performed at refrigerated temperature 2 8 C or at room temperature without any significant difference. The eluent is then dialyzed against 10mM Tris Cl containing 0.18M NaCl. Alternatively, the eluent is diafiltered using an Amicon YM 30 or PM 10 membrane against the same buffer. The dialyzed eluent is then passed through a DE 52 column. HBsAg is not bound by DE 52 in this medium. The column is washed with 10mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 containing 0.18M NaCl to effect a quantitative recovery of the HBsAg. Approximately 1mL of DE 52 is used per 10 20mg of HBsAg. The product from anion exchange chromatography using DE 52 is adjusted to a concentration of approximately 0.2mg mL by either dilution or concentration by ultrafiltration using for example an Amicon stirred cell with a PM 10 or YM 30 membrane. The resulting solution is filtered through a 0.22 micron filter and is heated at 60 C for a period of from 3 to 10 hours. The HBsAg was formulated into a vaccine by compounding with aluminum salts in the form of a gel as adjuvant as follows. 20µg of HBsAg is mixed with 0.1M NaCl and 0.88 w v alum and 0.05 w v Thimerosal as a preservative. The solution is then titrated to a pH of between 5 7 5.5 with 0.1 M sodium phosphate at pH 12. Each ml of adjuvant vaccine contains 0.5mg equivalent Al ³ ion, 20µg HBsAg and 0.05 w v Thimerosal . The overall yield of HBsAg according to this procedure is approximately 80 . It is estimated that there is less than 20pg of DNA per mg of HBsAg produced by the procedure described in this report. This value was determined using the clearance factor by the process for DNA of one million, a concentration of HBsAg in the cell culture fluid of 1 mg L and an amount of DNA per liter of cell culture fluid of 20µg as estimated by dot blot hybridization. Direct measurement of DNA in the product by dot blot hybridization shows that there is less than 10pg of DNA per mg of HBsAg. No significant decrease in stability of the HBsAg product at 4 C was observed over a period of six months. A solution composed of 0.025 mg mL HBsAg purified by the procedure outlined, 10mM Tris Cl pH 7.5, and 0.15M NaCl can be heated at 60 C for a period of 10 hours with negligible loss as measured by both ELISA and Abbott AUSRIA II assays. The HBsAg is further characterized by a purity of greater than 98 as indicated by SDS PAGE. The aluminum phosphate adjuvant vaccine of Example 1 was compared with a an aluminum hydroxide adjuvant vaccine formed by substituting sodium hydroxide for sodium phosphate in the procedure, and b commercial Heptavax B supplied by Merck, Sharp and Dohme in a mouse potency assay. The results shown in the following Table 1 demonstrate the increased potency of the claimed vaccine relative to a commercial preparation.