# TELEPHONE SET STRUCTURE HAVING A MEMBER CAPABLE OF BEING INSERTED IN INVERTIBLE POSITION

## Claims
Telefonapparataufbau mit einem Handapparat 1 , der mit einem Sender und einem Empfänger versehen ist, einer Basis 100 zum Festhalten des Handapparates und einem Bedienfeld 501,502 und einem Feld 504 ohne Bedienfunktion, die an der Basis 100 vorgesehen sind, gekennzeichnet durch

## Description
The present invention relates to the structure of a telephone set and, more particularly, to the structure of a radiotelephone which is installed in a vehicle cabin or like confinement. A telephone for use in a vehicle is usually made up of a handset unit and a base unit which is physically separate from the handset unit. The base unit adapted to support the handset unit is provided with a volume control knob, a power switch and others on one of opposite side faces thereof, and a loudspeaker at the other side face. This kind of telephone applied to a vehicle is generally positioned at left of the driver s seat if the driver s seat is mounted at the right hand side of the vehicle and at right of the driver s seat if it is mounted at the left hand side, so that only one of the opposite side faces of the base unit opposes a person who is seated in the driver s seat. Hence, arranging the manipulable section inclusive of the volume control knob and power switch on, for example, the right face of the base unit is desirable from easy access standpoint for a vehicle of one type having a driver s seat at right but undesirable for a vehicle of the other type having a driver s seat at left, while arranging them on the left face of the base unit is desirable for the latter type of vehicle but undesirable for the former type of vehicle. Meanwhile, a current trend in the art of vehicle mounted telephones which has evolved from the decrease in equipment size is toward their applications in both inside and outside of a vehicle cabin. However, a telephone provided with a structure which matches with such a trend has not been realized yet. It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a telephone set structure having a base unit which is applicable to a vehicle with no regard to the position of a driver s seat by means of a single handset support member. It is another object of the present invention to provide a telephone set structure which includes a member whose side face provided with a manipulable section and side face provided with a non manipulable section are invertible in position substantially without changing the configuration of a base unit. It is another object of the present invention to provide a telephone set structure which may be used inside or outside of a vehicle cabin as desired and is easy to switch its configuration for inside use and outside use. In one embodiment of the present invention a telephone set comprises a handset having a transmitter and a receiver, a base for fixing the handset in place and accommodating circuits which are electrically interconnected to the transmitter and receiver of the handset, and a mounting member for mounting a manipulable section on one of opposite side faces thereof and a non manipulable section on the other side face, the mounting member being constructed to be inserted into the base in such a manner that the opposite side faces are invertible to replace each other. The other objects, features and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the following description taken with the accompanying drawings in which Fig. 1 is a perspective view of a telephone set to which the present invention is applied Fig. 2 is an exploded perspective view of the telephone set shown in Fig. 1 Fig. 3 is a section along line A A of Fig. 2 Fig. 4 is a plane view of a mounting member which is engaged with a casing of a base Fig. 5 is an exploded perspective view of the telephone set in accordance with the present invention which is operatively connected with a radio equipment and Figs. 6 9 are perspective views showing various conditions in which the telephone set in accordance with the present invention may be used in combination with the radio equipment. Referring to Fig. 1 of the drawings, a telephone set to which the present invention is applied is shown and includes a handset 1 and a base or handset support 100. The handset 1 comprises a microphone or transmitter and a receiver therein and is provided with dial buttons 2, a display 3 and others. The base 100 includes a coupling section 6 for fixing the handset 1 in place, a mounting member 5 which mounts thereon a power switch, a loudspeaker and others, and a casing 4 for accommodating the mounting member 5 and a circuit board on which necessary circuits are loaded. The mounting member 5, as will be described later in detail, has a manipulable section arranged one side face thereof and provided with a volume control knob, a power switch and others, and a non manipulable section arranged on the other side face and provided with a speaker grill and others. The member 5 is engageable with the casing 4 in such a manner that those opposite side faces are invertible in position to replace each other. The handset coupling section 6 is fastened to the casing 4 by screws or like fastening means and functions to fix the handset 1 in place. Electronic circuits built in the handset 1 are electrically connected by a curly cord 7 to those which are installed in the casing 4. Referring to Fig. 2, the handset coupling section 6 includes lugs 601 and 602 adapted to lock the handset 1 in position. The lug 602 is operatively connected with a push button 604 such that it unlocks the handset 1 when the push button 604 is depressed. Another lug 603 is spring biased to serve the function of raising the handset 1 when the latter is released from the lug 602, so that the operator may easily hold the handset 1 for communication. The coupling section 6 is locked by a projection 402 extending from the casing 4 and fixed to the casing 4 by means of a screw not shown which is driven into a threaded hole 401. The mounting member 5 is provided with a power switch 501 and a volume control knob 502 on one side face and a speaker grill 504 see Fig. 3 on the other side face. As shown in Fig. 3, a loudspeaker 503 is mounted to the member 5 in an inclined position so as to minimize the dead space. Returning to Fig. 2, recesses 505 extend respectively at the four corners of the mounting member 5 to receive four lugs 405 which extend on the casing 4. The recesses 505 share the same configuration and dimensions, and so do the projections 405. Further, the opposite side faces of the mounting member 5 share the same length. With such a structure, the member 5 may be inserted into the casing 4 with the both side faces held in an invertible positional relationship. That is, the position of the manipulable section inclusive of the power switch 501 and volume control knob 502 and that of the non manipulable section inclusive of the speaker grill 504 can be replaced merely by inverting the lateral orientation of the mounting member 5 relative to the casing 4. The casing 4 has a capacity great enough to accommodate not only the mounting member 5 but also a circuit board 403 which is loaded with electronic circuits not shown . The casing 4 is notched to have a pair of recesses 404 for receiving the push buttons 604 of the coupling section 6. As shown in Fig. 4, the mounting member 5 is provided with a symmetrical configuration with respect to the casing 4. The four interengaging portions 405, 505 are identical with each other and, therefore, inverting the member 5 in the right and left direction is no problem. It follows that the telephone set shown and described is readily applicable to a vehicle regardless of the position of the driver s seat, that is, merely by inverting mounting member 5 to match it to a particular position of the driver s seat. The manipulable section inclusive of the power switch 501 may be located in a position which is easy for the main user of the telephone to make access. How the handset 1 and base 100 may be used in practice will be described hereinafter. Referring to Fig. 5, a telephone, generally 31, is made up of the handset 1 and the base 100 which is provided with a connector 35 at its bottom for electrical connection. A radio equipment body 37 capable of processing signals which are transmitted and received through an antenna 36 or 54 is provided with a connector 38 on one surface thereof for connection with the connector 35, and engaging portions 39 detachably engageable with the base 100. Positioned on the bottom 40 of the radio equipment body 37 are a connector 41 for connection with a power source and a connector 42 for connection with the antenna. A lug 44 extends from each of two opposing surfaces of the radio equipment body 37 to be engageable with a handle 43. Further a lug 46 extends from one of the surfaces of the radio equipment body 37 to be engageable with a base portion of the antenna 36. The radio equipment body 37 is fixed to a vehicle body or the like by means of a holder 47 which includes engaging portions 48a for removably retaining the equipment body 37, a connector 49 for making contact with the connector 41, and a connector 50 for making contact with the connector 42. The connector 49 is connected by a cable 51 to a power source 52 such as a battery adapted to power a vehicle, while the connector 50 is connected by a cable 53 and a relay connector 55 to the antenna 54 which is mounted on a vehicle body, for example. A protector 56 which functions as will be described is provided with engaging portions 48b which are the same in function as the engaging portions 48a, and a connector 57 for connection with the connector 42. A cable 58 extends out from the connector 57 and carries at its end a connector or base portion 45 to which the antenna 36 may be connected. A battery unit 59 has thereinside a battery and a battery charging circuit to serve as a portable power source. Provided on one surface of the battery unit, or casing, 59 are engaging portions 48c which share the same function with the engaging portions 48a and 48b, a connector 60 for connection with the connector 41, and a connector 61 for connection with the connector 42. Provided on another surface of the battery casing 59 are connectors 62 and 63 for connection with the connector 49 and the connector 50 or connector 57 , respectively. The radiotelephone having the above construction and arrangement is usable in different configurations as will be described, depending upon desired conditions of use. Where the radiotelephone is intended for use in a confinement such as a vehicle cabin, the holder 47 is utilized which is fixed to a vehicle body or the like and has the power source cable 51 connecting to the battery 52 and the antenna cable 53 to the antenna 54. Specifically, the radio equipment body 37 is securely mounted to the holder 47 by the engaging portions 48a and this causes their power source connectors and antenna connectors to be interconnected. Then, the base 100 of the telephone set 31 is mounted to the radio equipment body 37 through the engaging portions 39, setting up electric electrical connection between the connectors 35 and 38. In this configuration, the radiotelephone may be operated in a vehicle cabin or like confinement. To use the radiotelephone outside the confinement such as while carrying it, the radio equipment 37 in the configuration of Fig. 6 is removed from the engaging portions 48a of the holder 47 and then, as shown in Fig. 7, the battery unit 59 is rigidly connected to the bottom of the radio equipment body 37 by means of the engaging portions 48c. This interconnects the power source connector 41 to the power source connector 60 and the antenna connector 42 to the antenna connector 61. Thereafter, the protector 56 is mounted to the bottom of the casing 59 through the engaging portions 48b, connecting the antenna connector 57 to the antenna connector 61. The handle 43 is then coupled with the lugs 44 of the radio equipment body 37, the antenna 36 is connected to the end of the cable 58, and the base portion 45 of the antenna 36 is engaged with the projection 46. With the construction and arrangement described above, the telephone can readily be configured for use outside of a confinement or restored to a configuration for use inside of the confinement by manipulating the engaging portions as explained. Other possible configurations of the radiotelephone in accordance with the present invention are shown in Figs. 8 and 9. In Fig. 8, the battery unit 59 is mounted between the holder 47 and the radio equipment body 37 in order to charge the battery in the battery unit 59 while the telephone set 31 is used. In Fig. 9, the connector of the base 100 and the connector of the radio equipment body 37 are interconnected by an extension cable 64 and a holder 65 so that the telephone set 31 may be used physically separated from the radio equipment body 37. In this case, the telephone set 31 is retained by the holder 65 and the radio equipment body 37 by the holder 47. In summary, it will be seen that the present invention provides a telephone set structure which allows one to readily and switchingly use a single telephone inside and outside of a confinement such as a vehicle cabin and, inside the confinement, while charging a portable battery unit or positioning a telephone set and a radio equipment body separately from each other. Although the invention has been described with reference to particular embodiments, by way of example, it will be appreciated that variations and modifications may be made within the scope of the following claims.