# Hydrogenation products.

## Abstract
Hydrogenated fish oil is provided having an iodine value of less than 80 ad a trans fatty acid moiety content of less than 40 and either i a slip melting point of from 34 to 36 C and a solid contents profile of N₂₀ 26 to 32.5 , N₃₀ 8 to 12 and N₃₅ 5 , or ii a slip melting point of from 36 to 38 C and a solid contents profile of N₂₀ 49 to 56 , N₃₀ 21 to 26 and N₃₅ 15 . The products hve melting points and solid contents profiles which allow the fish oil to be usefully employed in a wide range of edible products in combination with an iodine value of less than 80 and low trans values which can each increase its stability in terms of for example taste keepability.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Hydrogenated fish oil having an iodine value of less than 80 and a trans fatty acid moiety content of less than 40 and either i a slip melting point of from 34 to 360C and a solid contents profile of N20 26 to 32.5 , N30 8 to 12 and N35 5 , or ii a slip melting point of from 36 to 380C and a solid contents profile of N20 49 to 56 , N30 21 to 26 and N35 15 . 2. Hydrogenated fish oil according to Claim 1 wherein oil i has a trans fatty acid moiety content of less than 35 , preferably less than 32 . 3. Hydrogenated fish oil according to Claim 1 or Claim 2 wherein oil i has a trans fatty acid moiety content of more than 20, preferably more than 22. 4. Hydrogenated fish oil according to any one of the preceding claims wherein oil i has a N35 value of 3 . 5. Hydrogenated fish oil according to Claim 1 wherein oil ii has a trans fatty acid moiety content of more than 20 , preferably more than 25 . 6. Hydrogenated fish oil according to Claim 1 orClaim 5 wherein oil ii has an iodine value of less than 75, preferably less than 70. 7. Hydrogenated fish oil according to any one of Claims 1, 5 and 6 wherein oil ii has an iodine value of more than 55. 8. Margarine oil blend incorporating a hydrogenated fish oil according to any one of the preceding claims. 9. Margarine containing an oil blend according toClaim 8.

## Description
HYDROGENATION PRODUCTS The present invention relates to products obtained by the hydrogenation of triglyceride oils, particularly fish oil. Hydrogenation of triglyceride oils is frequently carried out to alter the melting characteristics of the oil and or to increase its stability. Hydrogenation reduces the number of double C C bonds in the acyl chains and hence increases the melting point of the triglyceride and, additionally, leads usually to a reduction in its tendency to oxidise on storage which would lead to undesirable off flavours. Hydrogenation of triglyceride oils is conventionally performed by reaction with molecular hydrogen in the presence of a catalyst. Hydrogenation of fish oil can be particularly difficult due to a number of factors. Compared to for example some vegetable oils fish oil has a complicated fatty acid content and distribution. It can also have a relatively high initial iodine value. To reduce the amount of unsaturation to a useful level can thus need a high degree of hydrogenation. A further complication in the case of fish oil is that it can contain a relatively large amount of sulphur and other impurities which can effect the working of any catalyst chosen. In the past fish oils have been hydrogenated to provide a product with a useful solid contents profile.GB A 1120943 describes the hydrogenation of a number of fish oils and states that a relatively high degree of isomerisation e.g. cis trans isomerisation is desired as it contributes to a desirable pattern in the melting behaviour of the resulting product. Nowadays however, as mentioned in GB A 1589813, a reduced degree of trans product is desired. GB A 1589813 describes a method for treating a metallic catalyst with an externally applied electric potential with a view to effecting the selectivity of the hydrogenation reaction.Example XVI of GB A 1589813 relates to hydrogenation of fish oil. The Example given according to the process described in GB A 1589813 produces a fish oil having too low a solids content profile for many uses. The comparative example given in Example XVI of GB A 1589813 uses a conventional catalyst which from the description could be that described in GB A 1120943. Although use of the conventional nickel catalyst provides a useful solids content profile it does so accompanied by a relatively high degree of trans formation. According to the present invention there is provided hydrogenated fish oil having an iodine value of less than 80 and a trans fatty acid moiety content of less than 40 and either i a slip melting point of from 34 to 36QC and a solid contents profile of N20 26 to 32.5 , N30 8 to 12 and N35 5 , or ii a slip melting point of from 36 to 38OC and a solid contents profile of N20 49 to 56 , N30 21 to 26 andN35 158. Preferably oil i has a trans fatty acid moiety content of less than 35 , more preferably less than 32 .Preferably the trans fatty acid moiety content of oil i is more than 20, more preferably more than 22. Suitably the N35 value of oil i is less than 3 . Suitably the iodine value of oil i is more than 60. Preferably oil ii has a trans fatty acid moiety content of more than 20 , more preferably more than 25 .Preferably the iodine value of oil ii is less than 75, more preferably less than 70. Suitably oil ii has an iodine value of more than 55. All percentages are by weight. The present invention thus provides hydrogenated fish oils having melting points and solid contents profiles which allow the fish oil to be usefully employed in a wide range of edible products in combination with an iodine value of less than 80 and low trans values. We believe the combination to be new. The low iodine value and low trans value each reduce the tendency of the oil to oxidase and hence increase its stability in terms of for example taste keepability. The present invention can thus provide fish oils hydrogenated to a degree to render them useful in edible products having increased stability, in particular having reduced trans content. An important use for the present invention can be in the preparation of margarines, halverines and the like.The present hydrogenated fish oils can be particularly useful for use as a hardstock in a print type margarine. It is to be understood that the present invention extends to a margarine oil blend incorporating the present fish oil and a margarine or the like containing such a margarine oil blend. The present invention can be particularly useful when fish oils having initial high unsaturation such asJapanese, Chilean or Menhaden oil having iodine values higher than 150 are employed as the starting material.The present invention is less applicable to, although it can be used for, oils such as Norwegian fish oil having an initial iodine value less than 150 e.g. 130 such as that obtained mainly from herrings. In either case the present hydrogenated fish oil is preferably prepared from an oil which has been neutralised and optionally subjected to other refining steps. The present hydrogenated fish oil can be prepared by a variety of methods. Suitably the fish oil is hydrogenated in the presence of a nickel catalyst. Catalysts that have been found useful for use in the present invention include finely dispersed nickel boride catalysts in the presence of an organic linear polymer employed either alone or in combination with a nickel catalyst on a solid carrier. Nickel boride catalysts stabilised by an organic linear polymer, for example a polymer containing vinylpyrrolidone groups, can be prepared in a number of ways. One method is described in CA A 1128933 in which the catalyst is dispersed in an organic solvent such as an alcohol. Alternatively the colloidal nickel boride catalyst stabilised by an organic linear polymer can be dispersed in a fatty substance such as a triglyceride oil. In the latter case the catalyst can be prepared by adding an alcoholic e.g. methyl , ethyl or propyl alcohol solution of alkaliborohydride to an alcoholic solution of a nickel salt in an atomic ratio B Ni of 1.5 1 to 3 1 of which at least one of the solutions contains the organic linear polymer dissolved in it. The addition takes place under an atmosphere of hydrogen or inert gas at a temperature between 0 and 800C. The reaction results in the production of finely divided nickel boride. After the termination of the reaction a fatty substance e.g. a triglyceride oil such as soyabean oil is added to the system and the alcohol removed for example by vacuum distillation. Suitable nickel salts are salts sufficiently soluble in alcohol such as nickel chloride hexahydrate and nickel sulphate heptahydrate.Suitable organic linear polymers include vinylpyrrolidone containing polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone and polyvinylacetate polyvinylpyrrolidone copolymers. The average molecular weight of the stabilising polymer is preferably between 10,000 and 150,000. The amount of linear organic polymer in the oil suspension of the catalyst can be between 0.2 and 8 , preferably between 0.5 and 5 by weight, and the amount of nickel boride, calculated as nickel, can be from 0.1 to 5.0 wt , preferably between 0.3 and 4.0 wt . A variation on the above catalyst preparation, which can provide a more active catalyst, employs the use of a nickel salt which contains less than 6 mol of water of crystallisation. For example a nickel chloride with four or less molecules of water of crystallisation such as nickel chloride dihydrate or nickel chloride tetrahydrate can be employed. The subsequent preparation of the finely divided nickel boride catalyst stablised by an organic linear polymer can then be performed as described above. Hydrogenation employing a finely divided nickel boride catalyst in the presence of an organic linear polymer suitably employs 10 to 1500 ppm Ni with respect to fish oil, a hydrogen pressure of 100 to 5000 kPa and a temperature of 20 to 1800C. On completion of the reaction the catalyst and polymer can be removed from the fish oil by washing with a dilute acid solution e.g. citric acid and optionally a post treatment with bleaching earth and or distillation. The present fish oils can alternatively be prepared by the use of two or more sorts of catalyst. One particularly advantageous combination is the use of a nickel metal catalyst on a solid carrier such as Kieselguhr to effect an initial partial hydrogenation followed by, having removed the first catalyst, the use of one of the finely divided nickel boride catalysts described above. A suitable nickel metal catalyst is for example a commercial catalyst obtainable under the nameCrosfield s Nicat NP AC.60 Nicat is a Registered TradeMark . The advantage of such a combined procedure is that in for example a fish oil containing a high degree of sulphur and or other impurities, their removal can be effected during the hydrogenation with the nickel metal catalyst. Embodiments of the present invention will now be described by reference to the following Examples. Refined and neutralised Japanese type fish oil having an IV of 179.41 and a fatty acid composition as follows was used in Examples 1 and 2 C14 0 8.6 , C16 0 18.7 , C16 1 10.5 , C18.03.3 , C18 1 13.0 , C18 2 1.58, C18 3 1.1 , C18 4 1.2 , C20 0 1.1 , C20 1 1.7 ,C20 2 0.4 , C20 3 1.1 , C20.4 0.5 , C20 5 14.0 , C22.0 1.0 , C22 1 0.2 , C22 2 1.0 , C22 3 0.3t, C22 4 3.2 , C22 5 9.6 , C24 0 0.9 . In Examples 1 and 2 a finely dispersed nickel boride catalyst stablised by polyvinylpyrrolidone was employed which had been prepared by the method described above. An ethanol solution 16 ml containing 6.9 mmol NaBH4 was added to an ethanol solution 34 ml containing 2.5 mmolNiC12.6H2O and 240 mg polyvinylpyrrolidone with an average molecular weight of 90,000. The addition took place at room temperature and in a hydrogen atmosphere and resulted in the formation of nickel boride as a brown black solution containing 0.3 wt nickel boride calculated as nickel. 15 wt soyabean oil was added to the nickel boride solution and the ethanol evaporated off under decreased pressure with stirring. The nickel boride dispersion in oil thus prepared contained 3 wt of polymer and 2 wt of nickel boride, calculated as nickel. Example 1 Refined neutralised fish oil having the above fatty acid composition was hydrogenated using a nickel boride polyvinylpyrrolidone catalyst dispersed in soyabean triglyceride oil at a concentration of 2 wt Ni calculated as metal. The catalyst with respect to the nickel was used at a concentration with respect to the fish oil at a concentration of 0.02 Ni. The catalyst was dispersed in the fish oil and then subjected to molecular hydrogen at a pressure of 6 bar. The fish oil was maintained at a temperature of 11000. The fish oil was subjected with stirring to hydrogen until by its refractive index 1.4525 it had attained the desired iodine value. The resulting oil was analysed for IV, trans content, slip melting point and solids content. The results are given in Table I below. Table IIV 79.2 trans 39N10 8 49.7 N20 27.8N30 8 10.5N35 2.2Smp C 34.5 Example 2 Neutralised Menhaden fish oil having an iodine value of 157.3 and a trans content 1 was hydrogenated employing a nickel boride polyvinylpyrrolidone catalyst dispersed in soyabean oil at a concentration of 2 wt Ni calculated as metal. The catalyst with respect toMenhaden oil was used at a concentration of 0.02 Ni. The catalyst was dispersed in the fish oil which was maintained at 1000C and then subjected with stirring to molecular hydrogen at a pressure of 5 bar.Samples were withdrawn periodically from the oil and analysed for iodine value IV , trans content, melting point and solid contents profile N . The results are given in Table II below. Table IIHydrogenationTime mins 132 243IV 74.6 58.3 Trans 34 31MP OC 34 38N20 27.5 50.6N25 18.1 38.3N30 9.6 25.6N35 1.1 12.1N40 0.4 0.2 Example 3 The present example employed a neutralised and dried fish oil having an iodine value of 179. The catalyst employed was prepared from MiC12.6HzO. The green hexahydrate was converted to golden yellow dihydrate by heating it at 55 C for 30 minutes under vacuum conditions. Commercial absolute ethanol and 4g polyvinylpyrrolidone average molecular weight 40,000 were added to the dihydrate which was prepared from NiC12.6H2O originally present in an amount of 40 mmol. To the resulting suspension was added 160 ml of absolute ethanol solution containing 3.8g NaBH4 under a hydrogen atmosphere. A brownish black colloidal solution of nickel boride was formed containing 1.2 nickel boride, calculated as nickel. 30 by weight soyabean oil was added to the nickel boride solution and the ethanol was evaporated under reduced pressure at approximately 200C with stirring.The resulting nickel polyvinylpyrrolidone boride dispersion in oil was employed as the catalyst and had a 4 wt content of Ni measured with respect to the soyabean oil. The catalyst was added to the fish oil in an amount of 400 ppm Ni with respect to the fish oil. The oil catalyst mixture was heated to 110 C and subjected to hydrogen at a pressure of 5 bar. Samples were withdrawn from the reaction vessel periodically for testing. A hardened fish oil having the specification given in TableIII below was obtained. Table III IV 79.8 Trans 30 MP OC 35.5 10 47.1 N20 27.2 N30 10.1 N35 3.6 Example 4 In this example the same fish oil having an initial iodine value of 179 was employed as in Example 3. In the present example however the fish oil was first hydrogenated at 1500C under a hydrogen pressure of 5 bar employing a commercially available nickel catalyst on carrier, known as a Nicat NP AC.60 Nicat is a RegisteredTrade Mark at a concentration of 1000 ppm Ni with respect to oil until an iodine value of 129 was reached. The catalyst was then removed by filtering and the fish oil was subjected to further hydrogenation employing a nickel polyvinylpyrrolidone boride catalyst in soyabean oil prepared according to the procedure described in Example 3 at a concentration of 155 ppm Ni with respect to the fish oil. The latter hydrogenation took place at a temperature of 1100C under a hydrogen pressure of 5 bar. The hydrogenation was continued until a fish oil having the specification given in Table IV below was obtained. Table IV IV 79.4 Trans 24 MP OC 35 N10 45.1 N20 26.1 N30 10.1 N35 3.6 Examples 5 and 6 Neutralised and dried fish oil having an initial iodine value of 176.1 was hydrogenated at a temperature of 1100C and a hydrogen pressure of 6 bar using as catalyst at a concentration of 400 ppm Ni with respect to the fish oil a catalyst prepared according to the procedure described in Example 3. The results of the hydrogenation are given in Table V below. TABLE VExample 5 6IV 74.1 61.6Trans 8 38 35MP OC 35 37 10 54.0 70.8 N20 31.8 50.9N30 11.7 25.7N35 8 3.5 13.3 Comparative Examples A and As a comparison to Examples 5 and 6 fish oil from the same batch as that employed in Examples 5 and 6 was hydrogenated using as catalyst Nicat NP AC 60 at a concentration of 1000 ppm Ni with respect to the fish oil.The hydrogenation took place at a temperature of 150 1800C and a pressure of 3 bar and followed the two stage procedure described in GB A 1120943. The results are given in Table VI below. TABLE VIExample A BIV 76.8 62.9Trans 49 43MP C 35 37 N10 54.4 75.0N20 30.7 54.7N30 9.1 28.2N35 2.1 14.6