# ELECTROMAGNETICALLY OPERABLE FLUID INJECTORS

## Claims
Elektromagnetisch zu betätigendes Flüssigkeitseinspritzventil, umfassend einen Hohlkörper 14 , der eine eine Düsenöffnung bildende Einspritzdüse 15 aufweist, eine Kammer 44 , die durch das hohle Innere des Körpers 14 gebildet wird, ein Ventil 41 , einen Ventilsitz 39 , mit dem das Ventil 41 auf eine solche Weise zusammenwirkt, daß eine Vesbindung zwischen der Kammer 44 und der Düsenöffnung hergestellt wird, wenn sich das Ventil 41 nicht in seinem Sitz befindet, und blokiert wird, wenn sich das Ventil 41 in seinem Sitz befindet ein in dem Körper 14 befestigter Magnetspulenkern 28 , der gegenüber dem Ventilsitz 39 in die Kammer hineinragt, und eine um den Kern 28 herumgewickelte Magnetspulenwindung 33 , wobei sich das Ventil in einem Spalt in einem Magnetkreis befindet, der durch den Körper 14 einschließlich des Kerns 28 gebildet wird, und der durch die Erregung der Magnetspulenwindung 33 magnetisiert wird, dadurch gekennzeichnet, daß eine Einrichtung, die auf Veränderungen der Temperatur anspricht, der sie aufgrund der Änderung einer ihrer physikalischen Eigenschaften ausgesetzt wird, in dem Einspritzventil vorgesehen ist, so daß sie mit dem Ventil 41 oder mit dem Ventilsitz 39 so zusammenwirkt, daß jeder Neigung zu einer Veränderung der Strömungsmeßeigenschaften des Einspritzventils aufgrund einer Veränderung der Temperatur in dem Einspritzventil entgegengewirkt wird, wodurch die Betätigung des Einspritzventils zum Einspritzen von Flüssigkeit im wesentlichen unabhängig von der Temperaturänderung ist, und daß der Bewegungshub des Ventils 41 relativ zu dem Ventilsitz 39 mit der Änderung der Temperatur aufgrund einer nachfolgenden Änderung der physikalischen Form der genannten Einrichtung geändert wird, was eine Änderung des Abstandes zwischen dem Magnetspulenkern 28 und dem Ventilsitz 39 zur Folge hat.

## Description
This invention relates to electromagnetically operable fluid injectors and particularly, although not exclusively, to electromagnetically operable fuel injectors. References which disclose such injectors include UK A 1330181 UK A 1414371 UK A 2033004 EP A 0006769 EP A 0007724 EP A 0063952 US A 3567135 US A 3738578 US A 3620213 and US A 4308890. Operation of electromagnetically operable fluid injectors is controlled by an electronic control arrangement which is fed signals indicative of various sensed parameters which influence that operation. The rate of flow of fluid metered by operation of an electromagnetically operable fluid injector changes with changes in the temperature of that fluid. Tests have shown that it can be desirable to cater for the effect on fluid flow rate of temperature changes in an electrically operable fluid injector. This subject is not considered in any of the foregoing references. US A 2283903 discloses a solenoid valve mechanism utilising a thermostatic member to create a separative force which acts to displace a movable solenoid core on de energisation from a position it adopts when the winding is energised. The thermostatic member shall not be critical as to its operating temperature, but shall function upon a drop in that operating temperature from any substantially constant value to produce the separative force. Operation of the thermostatic member has a negligable effect, or no effect at all on the rate of flow of fluid controlled by operation of the valve. UK A 1601306 discloses a fuel injection valve in which flow is controlled by operation of a piezo electric actuating member to displace a movable body and teaches that it is essential to minimise the effects of thermal expansion on the valve parts so that the rate of fluid flow through the valve will not be likely to vary excessively with changes of ambient temperature. One of the attractions of use of electrically operable injectors in fuel injection systems is the ability to incorporate corrections to cope with variations in the various parameters that influence operation of the engine in the electrical signal that effects energisation of the injector. That ability follows from the fact that the electronic control arrangement can readily be fed signals indicative of a variety of sensed parameters which influence operation of the engine, e.g. speed, temperature, manifold pressure, etc. Use of electrically operable injector valves is attractive because it leads to there being no further need to make elaborate mechanical arrangements to cater for variations in such parameters, such as the arrangements that are shown in UK A 1293709 UK A 2022710 and UK A 2068055 for providing compensation for the effects on fuel metering of temperature variations in idling circuits. The facility to provide compensation for variations in certain engine operating parameters by electronic means has become all the more attractive with the availability of appropriate microprocessors which may include a data store, such as a memory matrix, which can be programmed to store data comprising optimum fuel flow rates for a wide range of different sensed engine parameters such as temperature, atmospheric pressure, engine speed and engine inlet manifold pressure which is representative of engine loading. Relevant references include UK A 1374229 UK B 2027941 UK B 2053511 US A 3742920 US A 4142683 and US A 4200064. According to this invention there is provided an electromagnetically operable fluid injector comprising a hollow body which carries an injector nozzle which forms a nozzle orifice, a chamber which is formed by the hollow interior of the body, a valve, a valve seat with which the valve cooperates such that communication between the chamber and the nozzle orifice is allowed when the valve is unseated and is blocked when the valve is seated, a solenoid core which is fixed in the body and which projects into the chamber opposite the valve seat, and a solenoid winding wound around the core, the valve being located in a gap in a magnetic circuit which is formed by the body, including the core, and which is magnetised by energisation of the solenoid winding, wherein means which respond to changes in temperature to which they are subjected by changing a physical characteristic thereof, are provided in the injector so that they cooperate with one of the valve and the valve seat such that any tendency for fluid flow metering characteristics of the injector to be changed by a change in the temperature in the injector is countered whereby operation of the injector to inject fluid is substantially independent of temperature change, and such that the stroke of movement of the valve relative to the valve seat is changed with a change in temperature by virtue of a consequent change in the physical form of said means which causes a change in the distance between the solenoid core and the valve seat. In one embodiment of this invention such variation in the stroke of the valve is achieved by the use of a telescopic assembly as the solenoid core, one part of the solenoid core, viz. that part that is nearer to the valve seat, being guided for rectilinear movement towards and away from the valve seat by a static part of the solenoid core, which is mounted in the hollow body, and being connected to the static part by a connecting piece of a material having a different coefficient of expansion from that of the material from which the static part is formed such that said one part is caused to move relative to said static part by the effects of the differential expansion of the connecting piece relative to the static part. In another embodiment of this invention, such variation in the stroke of the valve is achieved by forming the valve seat on a member which is slidably mounted in the body and guided for rectilinear movement by the body relative to the solenoid core, the thermally responsive means reacting against the body and acting on the member in opposition to the action of resilient means which provide a restoring force. The thermally responsive means may comprise a portion of plastics material having a suitable coefficient of expansion, or may comprise a bimetallic element which may be in the form of a disc spring. Three embodiments of this invention are described now by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawings, of which The fuel injector shown in Figure 1 is described and claimed in EP A 0063952 and in United States Patent Application Serial No. 370585 filed 21st April 1982. It comprises a hollow body 14 of magnetic material which carries an injector nozzle 15. A solenoid winding 33 is mounted within the interior of the hollow body 14. It surrounds a solenoid core 28. A chamber 44 is formed between the solenoid winding 33 and the injector nozzle 15. The end portion of the solenoid core 28 that projects into the chamber 44 opposite the injector nozzle 15, with which it is coaxial, is tapered and serves as a flux concentrating pole piece. Terminal pins 35 and 36 extend from the solenoid winding 33, to which they are connected, and are for connection to an appropriate electrical control circuit not shown . The injector nozzle 15 is formed of a non magnetic material. It forms a tapered valve seat 39 around a nozzle orifice at its end nearer to the solenoid core 28. A ball valve 41 is located in an open ended bore 32 formed by the body 14 between the chamber 44 and the injection nozzle 15. The diameter of the ball valve 41 is less than that of the bore 32. The distance between the injection nozzle 15 and the adjacent end of the solenoid core 28 is such that the ball valve 41 is spaced from the solenoid core 28 when it is seated on the valve seat 39. The length of the bore 32 is such that the equator of the ball 41 is always located within that bore 32. The ball valve 41 is a moving part of a magnetic circuit formed by the body 14 and the solenoid core 28 by energisation of the solenoid winding 33, and is located in a gap in that magnetic circuit by virtue of its being located in the bore 32 and between the valve seat 39 and the solenoid core 28. Passages 42 and 43 in the body 14 communicate with the chamber 44 and serve as ports by which that chamber 44 is connected into the fuel system. It is desirable that the volume of the chamber 44 is as small as is practicable in order to minimise the instance of fuel vapour forming and being trapped therein. It is also desirable for the inner ends of the passages 42 and 43 to be as close as is practicable to the bore 32 in order to reduce the risk of fuel vapour passing through that bore to the nozzle orifice. Furthermore, for high frequency operation, it is desirable for the stroke of movement of the ball valve 41 between the solenoid core 28 and the valve seat 39, to be as small as practicable without interfering with the metered fuel flow passed the ball valve 41 and through the nozzle orifice, and also without interfering with the facility for varying its length automatically with changes in temperature to compensate for those temperature changes, as is described below. A coil spring not shown , which reacts against the solenoid core 28, may be provided to urge the ball valve 41 to seat on the valve seat 39. Such a spring would be provided if the fuel injector 14 is used in a fuel system which operates at a pressure too low for it to be sufficiently certain that the ball valve 41 can be seated by the fluid flow forces acting on it, without the aid of such a spring. Moreover, in practice, a light spring is usually provided as such a spring to ensure that the ball valve 41 is seated when the fuel system is inoperative. Figure 2 shows a solenoid core assembly 51 for use in the fuel injector shown in Figure 1 in place of the solenoid core 28. The solenoid core assembly 51 comprises an elongate, cylindrical, steel body 52, a constant section, cylindrical, aluminium bar 53 and a steel pole piece 54. The elongate body 52 has a blind, stepped, axially extending bore formed in it. The stepped bore is in three portions. The smallest diameter bore portion 55 is at the closed end. The largest diameter bore portion 56 is at the open end. The medial diameter bore portion 57 extends between the two end bore portions 55 and 56 and is only slightly larger in diameter than the smallest diameter bore portion 55. A screw thread 58 is formed on the outer cylindrical surface of the body 52 at the closed end and serves for screwing the solenoid core assembly 51 into the body 14 of the fuel injector. One end of the aluminium bar 53 is spigotted into the smallest diameter bore portion 55. The bar 53 extends through the medial diameter bore portion 57, with a small clearance therearound, and projects into the larger diameter bore portion 56 where it is spigotted into a blind bore 59 which is formed in the pole piece 54. The part of the pole piece 54 that is within the largest diameter, end bore portion 56 is cylindrical and is a sliding fit in that end bore portion 56. The remainder of the pole piece 54, that projects outwards from the end bore portion 56, is tapered and serves as the flux concentrating portion of the pole piece 54. An annular end surface formed by the body 52 around the mouth of the end bore portion 56 from which the pole piece 54 projects, serves as a reaction surface for a spring 61 which is provided to seat the ball valve 41 when required. The solenoid core assembly 51 is assembled with the aluminium bar 53 in compression. Assembly may be carried out in a low temperature environment. Variation in the temperature of the fuel in the chamber 44 and or of the body 14 of the fuel injector effects differential expansion of the aluminium bar 53 and the cylindrical body 52, and thus effects rectilinear sliding movement of the pole piece 54 relative to the cylindrical body 52. Such rectilinear sliding movement of the pole piece 54 changes the length of the stroke of movement of the ball valve 41 and thereby compensates for local temperature changes which would not be detected and or compensated for by the electronic control system. Assembly of the solenoid core assembly 51 with the aluminium bar 53 in compression, and under cold conditions, enables movement of the pole piece 54 relative to the body 52 in either direction and also provides for return movement. Figure 3 shows an alternative form of injection nozzle assembly for fitting, in place of the injection nozzle 15, in the end bore 62 that is adjacent the downstream end of the bore 32 and that has a larger diameter than the bore 32. An O ring 63 of elastomeric material is inserted in the bore 62 and placed against the radial wall at the end of that bore 62 adjacent the bore 32. A circular nozzle body 64 is a sliding fit in the end bore 62. It forms the tapered valve seat 39, but has nozzle orifices formed in it on a pitch circle around the axis. Each nozzle orifice has its axis oblique to the axis of the nozzle body 64, the axes of the nozzle orifices diverging in the direction of flow through the nozzle body 64. An annular recess 65 is formed in the nozzle body 64 at the end of its outer cylindrical surface nearer the bore 32. The axial depth of the annular recess 65 is less than the diameter of the O ring 63 and the latter, which projects into the recess 65, is normally in its natural relaxed state. A tubular bush 66 of a plastics material having a different coefficient of expansion from the non magnetic material of the nozzle body 64, separates the nozzle body 64 from an end bush 67 which is retained in position within the bore 62 by a peened over portion 69 of the body 14. An increase in temperature of the fuel flowing through the nozzle body 64, and or of the body 14 of the injector, causes axial expansion of the plastic bush 66 which urges the nozzle body 64 axially to compress the O ring 63. The nozzle body 64 is returned on cooling of the fuel and or the body 14, due to the resilience of the material of the O ring 63. Hence the distance between the seat 39 and the core 28 is varied with local changes in temperature. Such local temperature changes, which would not be detected or compensated for by the electronic control system, are compensated for by such movement, of the seat 39. The nozzle body 64 may be formed with a single nozzle orifice formed centrally, as in the injection nozzle 15, rather than the circular array of nozzle orifices described and shown. Figure 4 shows an arrangement which is similar to that described above with reference to Figure 3 but which incorporates a bimetallic disc spring 71 instead of the tubular plastics bush 66. The outer peripheral portion of the disc spring 71 reacts against an end bush 72 which is fixed in the bore 62 at the end thereof remote from the bore 32. The central portion of the disc spring 71 acts on the nozzle body 64. The disc spring 71 deforms from the flat planar state shown in Figure 4 with increase in temperature of the fuel flowing passed it and or increase in temperature of the portion of the body 14 surrounding it. It arches when it distorts with temperature increase, the central portion being displaced axially towards the bore 32, thus urging the nozzle body 64 towards the solenoid core 28 and reducing the stroke of the ball valve 41, as well as compressing the O ring 63. The resilience of the O ring 63 will cause the nozzle body 64 to return to the position shown in Figure 4 on cooling of the fluid flow. If the nozzle body 64 has a single nozzle orifice formed centrally, the disc spring 71 would be formed with a central hole which would be aligned coaxially with the single nozzle orifice.