# Counter tip device for skis.

## Abstract
The device comprises an element shaped to match a ski tip 1, 2 whereto it is attached by means of a screw fastening, which preferably realizes an asymmetrical coun ter tip 3, 4 directed inwardly such that on placing the two skis parallel to each other a single imaginary tip is produced. Provided on that element is a vibration dampen ing element including incoherent masses, set free to move within an enclosing body, which oppose by inertia of their movement the forces which generate vibration of the imple ment tip.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A counter tip device for skis, characterized in that it comprises a generally flat body 3,4 having a seat formation 5,6 for inserting therein a ski tip 1,2 and vibration dampening means 17,22, 122 on said body 3,4 . 2. A device according to Claim 1, wherein said body has a shape corresponding to the shape of the ski portion to be inserted therein. 3. A device according to Claim 1, wherein said body 3,4 has a shape deviating at least in part from the shape of the ski portion 1,2 to be inserted therein. 4. A device according to Claims 1, 3, wherein a forward end portion of said body 3,4 deviates sidewise with respect to a center line thereof corresponding to the center line of the ski portion 1,2 to be inserted therein. 5. A device according to Claim 4, wherein the other side of said end portion opposite to the side towards which the end portion deviates has a convex curvilinear shape 9,10 and wherein said forward end portion terminates with a tip 7 offset sidewise with respect to said center line of said body. 6. A device according to Claims 1 5, wherein said body has a hollow body portion 17 containing in the interior thereof an incoherent free mass 22,122,222 , which by virtue of its inertia dampens the vibratory movement of the ski tip. 7. A device according to Claims 1 6, wherein said body 3,4,104 is fastened to the ski tip 1,2 by mechanical means 12,13,14,21,121,221 . 8. A device according to Claim 7, wherein fastening of said body 3,4,104 to the ski tip 1,2 is accomplished bg means of through screws 14,21,121, 221 . 9. A device according to Claims 6 8, wherein said incoherent free mass 22,122,222 comprises a heavy granulated element such as sand or at least one metal ball which only partially occupies the hollow chamber 18,118,218 in said body 17,117,217 . 10. A device according to Claims 6 8, wherein said incoherent free mass 22,122,222 comprises a heavy liquid such as oil or heavy liquid metal such as mercury. 11. A device according to Claims 6 10, wherein said hollow body 218 comprises a closure cap 219 threaded thereon for adjusting the volume of the cavity of the hollow body, said cap 219 being optionally formed from a transparent material.

## Description
COUNTER TIP DEVICE FOR SKIS This invention relates to a counter tip device for skis. Competition or sporting skis frequently have the disadvantage of vibrating on account of the stresses imposed thereon while in use. That effect is most evident at the tip of the ski and may be particularly troublesome for the skier in addition to being a sure cause for losing speed. In addition, in aport events of the slalom type, where the skier is to complete a distance between gates formed by poles, it may easily occur that the ski tip, when brought too close to the pole, gets caught in it causing the skier to fall or at least be disqualified on the ground of an irregular passage of the gate. Of course vibration of the ski tips constituting a cause for difficult control of the skis may constitute a cause of engagement with the poles present along the track. It is an object of this invention to provide a device which has such characteristics as to reduce the effects of vibration of the ski. A further object is that of providing a device, which by virtue of the configuration of the tip of the ski reduces the risk of engagement of the ski with the poles of slalom gates, even when they are struck by the skier. Another object is to provide a device which is readily attachable to a ski without subatantially altering its structure. A not unimportant object of the invention is to provide a device which, when attached to a ski, imparts particular properties of safety and manageability thereto, particularly appreciable in competition type skis. Still another object is to provide a device of simple operation and low cost. These and other objects such as will be apparent hereinafter are achieved by a counter tip device for 8ki8, characterized in that it comprises a generally flat body having a seat formation for inserting therein a ski tip and vibration dampening means on said body. The Applicant has conducted experiments involving the utilization of a guiding rod, mounted substantially vertically in said chamber and including disks formed of a material having a high specific weight mounted slideably thereon and guided thereby along the rod.However, it has been found that such provision provides less attenuation of vibratory movements of the ski tip than an incoherent masa. In fact this cited arrangement of a rod and slideably mounted disks ia only effective to attenuate some components of vibration generated by forces acting, in the plane containing the axis of the rod and at most, only a small portion of the forces acting in other intersecting planes, while gravity forces and centrifugal and inertia forces cannot be coped with such arrangement. With this invention the gravity forces, the centrifugal forces and the inertia forces or momentum are exploited so as to contribute to the vibrationdampening effect. Further features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the detailed description of a preferred embodiment given by way of illustration and not of limitation with reference to the accompanying drawings, where Figure 1 is a plan view of a pair of ski tips incorporating the device according to the invention Figure 2 is a mid sectional view of the tip of a ski incorporating the device according to the invent tion embodied in a first form thereof Figure 3 is a sectional view taken on a centerplane of an equivalent device of that ahown inFigure 2 but implemented with a different configuration Figure 4 illustrates a modified construction of the device of this invention Figure 5 is an exploded mid sectional view of the device shown in Figure 2 and Figure 6 is a mid sectional view of a ski, to which the device of Figures 1,2,3 and 5 may be fitted. With reference to the cited figures, the device according to the invention, in a first embodiment thereof, is ahown in Figure 1 where it is mounted on the tipa respectively of a left ski 1 and right ski 2. The device comprises a counter tip respectively indicated at 3 and 4 for the left ski and for the right ski, said counter tip including a shaped body which partially overlaps the ski tip, having in this area a seat respectively 5 and 6 for the two skis 1,2, said seat 5, 6 being shaped to match the tip 1,2 of a ski which is to be contained therein. The seat may be pocket like, if desired. This counter tip is extended, in this embodiment, with an asymmetrical pattern curving inwards to terminate with a pointed front zone respectively 7 and 8, so shaped as to define, with the two skis 1 and 2 laid with their inner edges lea, 11b side by side, a shape substantially resembling a single ski tip. In practice the counter tip, making reference for example to the ski 1, is a continuation of the outer edge 9 of the ski into a curved zone indicated at 10, and continues until the pointed zone 7 is substantially aligned with the inner edge 11 of the ski. According to another embodiment the counter tip may be qymxetrically arranged with respect to the center line of the ski. With reference now to the drawing figures 5 and 6, the containment and the firing of the tip of the ski 2 within the seat 6 will be described. The pocket seat 6 formed in the counter tip 4 is defined by an upper wall 4a adapted to engage with the upper side 2a of a ski 2 and a lower wall 4b adapted to engage with the lower side 2b of said ski 2. Said lower wall 4b being formed with first 301 and second 302 protuberances adapted to be received within first 300e and second 300b correspondingly shaped through holes formed on the ski 2. Said protuberances 302 and 301 include centrally located through holes 300a, 300d, which are coaxial with through holes 300b, 300e when in assembled condition and being adapted for allowing passage therethrough of screws 21 , 14, respectively.Said upper wall 4a of said counter tip 4 including a third protuberance 303 adapted to be received in the hole 300b, and having a centrally located threaded dead hole 300c coaxial with the centrally located through hole 300a of said lower wall and said through hole 300b of said ski 2 for fixing engagement with said screw 21, when in assembled condition. Said upper wall 4a further including a large through hole 313 adapted to accommodate a boss 13 therein. Said boss 13 being formed with a projection 304 adapted to be received within the hole 300e formed in said ski 2, and having a centrally located threaded dead hole 300f coaxial with the centrally located through hole 300d of said lower wall 4b and said through hole 300e of said ski 2 for fixing engagement with the screw 14, when in assembled condition. Advantageously, the counter tip 4 is formed of a material having inherent elastic properties permitting said upper wall 4a and said lower wall 4b to be spread in the direction of the arrows A, B in Figure 5, thus allowing for insertion of the tip of a ski 2 therein. The bosa 13 may then be inserted into the large through hole 313, with its projection 304. Screws 14, 21 may then be inserted into the now aligned holes 300a, 300e and 300f, 300d wherein, appropriate tightening thereof will clamp and secure the entire assembled structure causing the counter tip 4 to become substantially integral with the tip of the ski 2, as illustrated in Figure 2. Shown in Figure 2 is a section of the right ski 2 where the boss 13 is brought out with the through screw indicated here at 140 On each counter tip 3 and 4 at a location corresponding to the tips of the skis 1 and 2 there is present a vibration dampening unit indicated, in Figure 1, at 15 and 16. As shown more clearly in Figure 2, the vibrationdampening unit 16 comprises an outwardly substantially frusto conical hollow body 17 rigid with the countertip which is in this case indicated at 4 and having on its interior a substantially cylindrical cavity or chamber indicated at 18. Said hollow frusto conical body 17 is closed by a cover 19 for example force fitted whilst the bottom 20 of the vibration dampening element is attached to the ski tip 2 by means of a screw 21, passing through the underside of said counter tip 4 and through said ski 2 tip into said bottom 20 of said vibration dampening unit 16e Said cylindrical cavity 18 contains an incoherent mass formed in this first embodiment by a liquid 22 having a high specific weight which only partly fills the cavity 18. Said liquid 22 may be conveniently oil or even a liquid metal such as mercury, The operation of the device is readily apparent. Vibration of the ski at the tip area thereof causes shaking and splashing of the liquid 22, within the chamber 18, impacting against the bottom, cover, and sidewalls of the chamber resulting in energy being dissipated, thereby causing the vibration of the tip of the ski to be dampened. The ski tip vibration are generated by forces which may have vectorially different and varying directions0 The presence of a liquid which can move randomly within the chamber 18 allows for good opposition to any forces creating vibration of the tip. Actual experimental tests have shown that the vibration is markedly attenuated and its duration with time is considerably reduced. Shown in Figure 3 is a first variation of the vibration dampening device. In this case there still is a frusto conical body 117 rigid with the counter tip 104 mounted on the ski by tightening a screw 121 and a cylindrical chamber 118 closed by a cover indicated at 119 which may be conveniently formed from a transparent material. Said cavity 118 now contains a granulated material indicated at 122 which may conveniently be sand, a powdered material having a high specific weight or even at least one metal ball. lisa in this case the operation of the device is analogous to that which has been previously illustrated. During the vibration movements of the ski tip the granulated material contained in the chamber 118 is set into motion and strikes the walls of the chamber causing energy to be dissipated and resulting in a reduction of the ski vibrations. Figure 4 shows a further embodiment which comprises a cylindrical element 217 also having on its interior a cylindrical chamber 218 fastened to the ski by means of a screw 221 and closed at the top by a screw cap 219 which when threaded in or out adjusts the free volume of the chamber 218 unoccupied by the mass 222, in a motionless condition thereof. Expediently, it is envisaged that the screw threads of the cited screw cap 219, communicate with corresponding screw threads provided on the cylindrical element 217 in a tight engagement relationship effective to prevent undesired unscrewing thereof. Alternatively, means such as a lock nutw arrangement may be provided bg locating a ring nut on a lower portion of the screw threads of the cylindrical element, which by rotation thereof may be moved towards the screw cap, until a secure abutment engagement is achieved between the ring nut and the screw cap, thereby preventing their rotation and permitting them to be locked at any desired location on the threaded part of the cylindrical element. The change of volume of the chamber 218 achieved by threading the screw cap 219 in or out results in a change of the dampening effect due to shaking of the free mass 222. All of the approaches set forth for the dampening device are substantially the equivalent of one another and as already illustrated, their operating principle is based on the presence of a free mass contained within a chamber, the volume hereof may advantageously be adjustable, made rigid with the ski tip. A further method of adjusting the dampening effect consists of securing the device closer to or further away from the tip of the ski. This may be accomplished by either providing a set of holes at the ski tip wherethrough the fastening screws are passed, or a device may be provided with fastening adjustment such as by means of engagement guides, etc.. The combination of a ski and a counter tip preferably of an asymmetrical form and hence with a suitable shape and a vibration dampening device, imparts to the ski particular properties of safety and manageability which are particularly appreciable in competition type skis. Of course, ateps may be taken from the same inventive concept to assume different practical embodiments of the invention, and any dimensions and materials may be selected and used depending on individual requirements.