# Faucet valve with check stop.

## Abstract
A fluid valve includes a sleeve 10 having an inlet 16 and an outlet 18 . There ist a stem 34 movable within the sleeve 10 and having an inlet 68 and an outlet 72 , with the stem inlet 68 being in communication with the sleeve inlet 16 and the stem outlet 72 being movable into com munication with the sleeve outlet 18 to define a path of flow through the valve from the communicating inlets through the stem outlet 72 and the sleeve outlet 18 . There is a check valve 62 movable within the stem 34 . Water flowing in the direction of the path of flow maintaining the check valve 62 in a position unrestrictive to the path of flow. When water flows in a direction opposite to the path of flow, the check valve 62 will close the path of flow.

## Claims
The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows 1. Fluid valve means including a sleeve having an inlet and an outlet, a stem movable within said sleeve and having an inlet and outlet, said stem inlet being in communication with said sleeve inlet and said stem outlet being movable into communication with said sleeve outlet to define a path of flow through said valve means from said communicating inlets through said stem outlet and said sleeve outlet, and a check valve movable within said stem, water flowing in the direction of said path of flow maintaining said check valve in a position unrestrictive to the path of flow, when water flows in a direction opposite to the path of flow, said check valve closing the path of flow. 2. The valve means of claim 1 further characterized in that said check valve closes said stem inlet when water flows in a direction opposite to the path of flow. 3. The valve means of claim 1 further characterized in that said check valve includes a seal member carried thereon and positioned to close upon said stem inlet when water flows in a direction opposite to the path of flow. 4. The valve means of claim 1 further characterized in that said stem includes a chamber communicating with said stem inlet and said stem outlet, said check valve being movable within said chamber. 5. The valve means of claim 4 further characterized in that said check valve includes a rod extending within said stem and a carrier positioned within said chamber, said carrier mounting a seal member positioned to close upon said stem inlet when water flows in a direction opposite to the path of flow. 6. The valve means of claim 5 further characterized in that said stem includes a body and a hollow piston attached thereto, with said chamber being defined within said hollow piston. 7. The valve means of claim 6 further characterized by and including a recess within said stem body for receiving said check valve rod. 8. The valve means of claim 6 further characterized by and including spacer means between said carrier and stem body positioning said carrier away from an end of said stem body. 9. The valve means of claim 1 further characterized by and including a fixed seal member carried by said sleeve for closing flow between said sleeve inlet and outlet, said seal member being annular, at least in part, with the annulus being arranged about an axis perpendicular to the axis of said stem, said seal member being spaced from said sleeve outlet with said path of flow through said valve means never being through said seal member at any position of said stem, said stem outlet being in register with and closed by said seal member when said stem is in a closed position.

## Description
Summary of the Invention The present invention relates to fluid valves and in particular to faucet valves of the type commonly found in the kitchen and lavatory. More specifically, the invention relates to a twohandle valve construction which includes a check valve within each faucet valve to prevent back flow and cross flow between the hot and cold water supplies. A primary purpose of the invention is a simply constructed and reliably operable faucet valve utilizing a self closing check valve to prevent backflow through the valve. Another purpose is a valve construction of the type described including a check valve which is maintained in an unrestrictive flow position by normal water flow through the valve, but which will move to a position closing the path of flow through the valve in the event of back flow or in the event of a substantial pressure differential between the hot and cold water supplies. Other purposes will appear in the ensuing specification, drawing and claims. Brief Description of the Drawings The invention is illustrated diagrammatically in the attached axial section through a valve of the type described. Description of the Preferred Embodiment The present invention is specifically directed to a dieck valve for use in a two handle faucet valve of the type illustrated in U. S. Patent 4,395,018, assigned to the assignee of the present application. The valve disclosed herein will be used in a water faucet, for example in the kitchen or lavatory and may form either the hot or the cold water valve. In certain geographical areas there is a substantial pressure difference between the hot and cold water supplies and there is the possibility of crossflow through the faucet between the hot and cold water supplies if the unbalance in pressure therebetween becomes sufficiently large. The present invention provides a check valve carried by the valve stem and movable within a chamber defined by the valve stem, which check valve, with water flow being in the conventional direction, will be unrestrictive to water flow through the valve.However, when there is crossflow between the hot and cold water supplies or back flow, which could be caused by such an unbalance in supply pressures, the check valve will automatically move to a position to close the stem inlet, thereby preventing water flow contrary to the normal path of flow through the valve. The valve shown herein will conventionally be placed within a faucet housing and only the sleeve and operating stem of the valve are shown in the drawing. The valve can be moved between open and closed positions to regulate the volume of water flow through it. The valve sleeve is indicated at 10 and is generally cylindrical in form and has seal rings 12 and 14 adjacent opposite ends thereof which will form a seal between the sleeve and the exterior faucet housing. The bottom of the sleeve has an inlet opening 16 and there is an outlet port 18 in the side thereof.Outwardly beyond seal ring 14 the sleeve has an outwardly extending shoulder 20 which will be used in properly positioning the valve cartridge formed of the sleeve and stem within the faucet housing.There is an axially extending projectioh 22 which cooperates wich the stem and functions as a stop to limit stem rotation. Both the sleeve 10 and the stem which will be described hereinafter may be conveniently formed of a suitable plastic material providing a lightweight and yet durable valve. Positioned directly inside of sleeve 10 is a seal support member 24 generally cylindrical in shape and mounting a valve closing seal 26 at a position generally diammetrically opposite to sleeve outlet port 18. A retainer 28, generally cylindrical in form may be positioned inside of the annular valve closing seal ring 28. The seal support extends axially beyond the end of the 10 and forms the sleeve inlet 16. The seal support may have a series of spaced outwardly extending projections or teeth 30 which will fit within a series of mating grooves 32 in the sleeve, thereby attaching the seal support to the sleeve. Axially positioned within sleeve 10 and seal support 24 is a stem 34 which is rotatably mounted within the sleeve for opening and closing the valve. Stem 34 has an outwardly extending shoulder 36 which fits within a gap 38 formed between the outer end of seal support 24 and a shoulder 40 on sleeve 10. The combination of shoulder 36 and gap 38 cooperate to form an axial stop preventing reciprocal movement of the stem within the sleeve and limiting movement of the stem to rotary motion. Stem 34 includes a body portion 42 and a hollow piston 44 attached thereto as at 46, which may be a form of a mechanical stake. A seal 48 is positioned within a groove 50 on body 42 and forms a seal between the body and the interior of piston 44. Stem 34 carries a further seal indicated at 52 which is effective between the exterior of the stem and the interior of the sleeve.Similarly, the inward or lower end of stem 34 carries a seal 54 circumferentially extending around a reduced portion 56 of piston 44. Seal 54 forms a seal between the exterior of the stem and the interior of the seal support adjacent sleeve inlet 16. A bore 58 is formed within body portion 42 of stem 34 and has a generally elongated axial configuration to mount a rod 60 forming a part of a check valve indicated generally at 62. Rod 60 of the check valve is integral with a generally flat carrier 64 which mounts a seal ring 66. The path of flow through the valve is from sleeve inlet 16 to stem inlet 68, then into a chamber 70 formed within piston 44 and then to stem outlet 72, which is shown in the closed position. When the stem is rotated 180 degrees, stem outlet 72 will be in register with sleeve outlet 18, thus completing the path of flow through the valve. In normal operation, water flowing from the communicating stem and sleeve inlets through chamber 70 and then through the registered stem outlet 72 and sleeve outlet 18 will maintain check valve 62 in the unoperative position illustrated in the drawing. The pressure from the water flowing through the valve will keep the freely mounted check valve in the open position. When the valve is closed, the position shown in the drawing, the check valve will remain in the open position because the communicating sleeve and stem inlets will permit water to reach chamber 70 and thus the pressure of the water within the chamber will maintain the check valve in the open position. In the event of water not flowing from the communicating stem and sleeve outlets to the communicating inlets, for example caused by a greater pressure at the outlet side than at the inlet side, such reverse flow will have the effect of moving the check valve downwardly, as illustrated in the drawing, whereby its seal ring 66 will close upon a shoulder 76 formed by the reduced end portion of piston 44. Thus, any backflow through the valve will be prevented by the check valve immediately moving to the closed position. Water pressure, when flow is in the normal direction, main tains the check valve in an open position. When water flow is contrary to the normal path of flow, the check valve will move within chamber 70 toward a closed position.There is a circumferential bead or rim 76 at the end of body member 42 which spaces against the back side of carrier 64 from the stem body, permitting water to flow behind the carrier and thus assist in urging the carrier to a lower or closed position when flow is contrary to the normal direction. As described in greater detail in the above mentionedU. S. Patent 4,395,018, seal ring 26, the valve closing seal ring, is never within the path of flow through the valve. This is a highly advantageous arrangement in that the seal is not rubbed or chafed or worn during valve operation. The seal is not in the line or path of water flow and thus is not subject to being moved by water pressure nor does it come in contact with foreign matter in the water supply. The seal provides a positive closure for the valve, but does so in such a manner as to insure that the seal is not worn and has a long life. The check valve is particularly advantageous and useful in a valve arrangement in which the valve closing seal is not within the path of flow because the chamber within the stem is always pressurized. Thus, the check valve is always in an open position and only can close in the event that there is reverse flow through the valve. Whereas the preferred form of the invention has been shown and described herein, it should be realized that there may be many modifications, substitutions and alterations thereto.