# INTEGRATED OVERVOLTAGE PROTECTION CIRCUIT

## Claims
Integrierte Überspannungsschutzschaltung, die mit einer Signalleitung einer Halbleiteranordnung verbunden ist, folgendes umfassend

## Description
The present invention relates to integrated overvoltage protection circuits, and more particularly to twin diode overvoltage protection structures adapted for use with Complementary MOS CMOS circuits. Semiconductor devices, such as MOS and CMOS integrated circuits, are often damaged by relatively large voltage transients due to Electrostatic Discharge ESD and to various spurious high voltage signals. To prevent such failures there is a need for effective protective devices at all MOS inputs. To meet this need, a variety of such protection devices have been suggested and used, such as Zener diodes, forward biased diodes, and MOS transistors. U.S. Patent 3,748,547 issued on July 24, 1973 to E. Sugimoto teaches the use of a protection PN junction diode connected in parallel with the gate electrode of an FET to protect the gate insulator of the FET in the event that a high voltage pulse is applied to the signal input electrode of the FET. An article by D. Alameddine, entitled Protective Circuit for Integrated Semiconductor Devices , published in the IBM Technical Disclosure Bulletin, Vol. 20, No. 10, pages 3962 3963, March 1978, describes another arrangement for protecting the gate inputs of FET circuits and the inputs of bipolar devices. It consists of a double chain of antiparallel diodes having one common pole connected to the input to be protected and another common pole connected to the ground. CMOS circuits are also susceptible to an undesired SCR action commonly known as latch up which if not controlled can lead to the destruction of the device, or its metal traces, by excessive current flow. This susceptibility is due to the existence within the commonly available CMOS circuits of parasitic PNPN structures. Under certain conditions, such as the presence of a transient signal, one of the PN junctions can be forward biased which can turn on the SCR action. The device then remains on in a latch up state even after the signal which causes the forward biasing of the PN junction is removed. There have been many efforts to eliminate latch up in such devices or at the very least to minimize the effects of latch up on them. Some of these are focused on eliminating latch up through various fabrication techniques, such as through the use of a dielectric insulator to eliminate the formation of the parasitic bipolar transistors in the devices. Other techniques suggested include the formation of doped regions to reduce the current passage between the parasitic transistors and to reduce their DC current amplification factor. Thus, CMOS structures are particularly vulnerable to the presence of overvoltage conditions at their input electrodes because such conditions not only can damage the structure s gate dielectric regions but they may also cause a damaging SCR action in the structure. The prior art overvoltage protection structures typically absorb some of these high voltage transient pulses by conducting current into an inactive portion of the substrate. However, such structures may protect the gate dielectric regions of the CMOS structures but occasionally they result in the damage of the structure they protect by creating latch up conditions in them. For example, the current flowing into the substrate through a protection structure quite often is sufficient to trigger parasitic vertical PNP and lateral NPN transistors to enter into a latch up condition. In U.S. Patent No. 3,934,159 there is shown an IGFET structure having a protective diode designed to avoid the injection of minority carriers into the substrate. The teaching of this document forms the statement of claim 1. However, the particular structure described therein protects the FET devices from overvoltage conditions of a single predetermined polarity. The twin diode protection circuits currently known such as the one shown in the May June 1982 issue of VLSI Design provide ESD protection but they do not adequately protect the integrated circuits into which they are incorporated from the affects of injections into the common substrate of majority and minority carriers. The invention as claimed is intended to remedy these drawbacks. It solves the problem of how to design an overvoltage protection structure which when it is connected to a signal line of a CMOS arrangement it will protect the structure in the presence of over voltage conditions while minimizing the injection into a common substrate of majority or minority carriers thus reducing the chances for latch up and avoiding the discharge of the common substrate which may need to remain at a predetermined voltage level. To accomplish this purpose an integrated overvoltage protection circuit connected to a signal line is provided which comprises the features such as recited in claim 1. During operation and when a temporary overvoltage condition of either polarity is applied at the signal line it will cause the injection of minority carriers into either the island like second region or into the first region depending on whether the polarity of the voltage on the signal line is of the type that can cause the forward biasing of the first or the second diode. In either event these minority carriers will be substantially inhibited from moving into the portion of the semiconductor body of the first conductivity type which is outside the first region. For CMOS structures constructed in an epitaxial layer formed on a semiconductor substrate, the structure of the present invention may be constructed in the epitaxial layer with the first region extending into the substrate portion adjacent the epitaxial layer substrate interface. Among the many advantages provided by this invention is the protection of devices connected to a common signal line from overvoltage conditions of either polarity. Another advantage is that it provides such overvoltage protection without causing latch up in the structure. A further advantage of this invention is that it can be incorporated in a CMOS structure to protect the inputs of the structure from overvoltage conditions and it can accomplish this without causing any current leakage from the substrate that is normally charged to a predetermined voltage level by an on chip substrate voltage generator. Ways of carrying out the invention are described in detail below with reference to drawings in which Referring now to Fig. 1, there is illustrated a structure constructed in accordance with the teachings of the present invention. The structure includes a P substrate 10 on which there is a P epitaxial layer 12. An N type buried layer 14 is formed in a portion of substrate 10 and extending into the epitaxial layer 12. Such a layer can be constructed by first forming an N layer into the substrate prior to the formation of the epitaxial layer and causing during an annealing step, N type dopants to out diffuse from the N type layer in the substrate into the epitaxial layer. A N well region 16 is formed in the epitaxial layer 12 in such a way so that this N region extends through a portion of the epitaxial layer to reach the buried layer 14 and thus the combination of the N well and the N type buried layer define an island like P type region 18 which is surrounded by N type material. The combination of the buried layer 14 and the well region 16 may be formed as provided above or in any other way so long as they establish a continuous N type first region to define a P type second region in the epitaxial layer which is isolated by the N type material from the remaining P type portion of the epitaxial layer and the substrate. Buried layer 14 should have a doping concentration which is relatively higher than that of well region 16. For example, the buried layer 14 may have a doping concentration of 5 x 10¹⁶ atoms cm³ or more while the N well region 16 may have a N type doping concentration of 2 x 10¹⁶ atoms cm³. By way of example, the P type region 18 may have a doping concentration in the range of 10¹⁴ to 10¹⁸ atoms cm³. An N When V When V Thus, wherever the ESD or spurious voltage conditions cause the voltage level at V In the embodiment shown in Figs. 1 and 2 the substrate 10 is shown as P, the epitaxial layer as P and the pocket region 18 as P. However, an embodiment in accordance with the teachings of the present invention may also be constructed in a P A structure may also be constructed in accordance with the teachings of the present invention wherein there are two adjacent epitaxial layers on a surface of a substrate with a buried layer formed around the inter face separating the two epitaxial layers and the well region extending through the top epitaxial layer and merging into the buried layer. Referring now to Fig. 3, there is shown a P type substrate 40 in which there is a first N type well region 42. This well region may be formed through ion implantation whereby a predetermined portion of the P type substrate is subjected to ion implantation with an N type conductivity determining impurity until this particular portion reverts to a N type well region of a predetermined conductivity. Region 44 depicts a second well region in a preselected portion of first well region 42 which is made to have a lower concentration of N dopants than region 42 either by the selective implantation of region 42 with P type conductivity determining ions in order to compensate for some of the N type dopants in it or by making this region to have a small N type conductivity during the original formation of the N well region 42. An isolated region 46 is formed in the N region 44 and an N