# LOW PH HAIR CONDITIONER COMPOSITIONS CONTAINING AMINE OXIDES

## Claims
Kationisches Haarkonditioniermittel bestehend hauptsächlich aus

## Description
This invention relates to hair conditioning compositions. More particularly, this invention relates to aqueous hair conditioning compositions that comprise relatively high molecular weight amine oxides at low pH s. After washing hair and during the subsequent management of the dry hair, the combing and brushing forces produce friction resulting in the accumulation on the hair s surface of immobile electrons or ions of the same charge. The hair is commonly referred to as containing static charge and displays the phenomenon of fly away. Such hair is unruly, will not lay flat and is considered generally unmanageable. Hair conditioning agents assist in the control and management of hair. Conditioned hair is easily untangled and combed through after shampooing, lays orderly when dry and provides a favorable feeling to the touch. The conditioning action on hair, particularly by cationic conditioning agents, is believed to be caused by the attraction of the positively charged agent to the negative sites on hair protein resulting in the deposition of the agent on to the hair fiber. Ionic depositions including positively charged cationic conditioning agents can be used to dissipate static electricity by increasing the mobility of the electrostatic charges that accumulate on hair. Furthermore, the fatty nature of the cationic conditioning agent produces lubrication on the hair s surface that reduces friction resulting in both the overall lessening of accumulated electrostatic charges and the promotion of easy combing. The process by which cationic surfactants are applied to hair is referred to as conditioning the hair, and the treatment results in hair that no longer sustains a static charge and in hair that also feels soft, silky and is highly manageable. Cationic surfactants have been used extensively as hair conditioning agents in creme rinses and shampoos, generally at pH levels below pH 7 in creme rinses and through pH 7 and above in shampoos. In the past best results in creme rinses have been obtained with cationic surfactants that are long chain high molecular weight quaternary ammonium compounds or long chain fatty amine salts. For example, stearalkonium chloride has been widely used as a component of creme rinse hair conditioning formulations. The positive charge of the quaternary surfactant is attracted to the negatively charged surface of the hair protein the surfactant deposits on the surface and subsequently renders the hair manageable. The long chain constituent on the quaternary surfactant coats the hair fiber giving it lubricity during wet combing and a desirable texture after drying. The longer the chain length the more active the conditioning agent is said to be the greater the residual film deposit on hair the easier the detangling effort and the less electrostatic charge build up and subsequent hair flyaway. Quaternary ammonium compounds carry and maintain positive ionic charges from highly alkaline to highly acidic media. However, many industrial quaternary ammonium compounds are partially or totally unsuitable for cosmetic use because they can contain impurities which restrict use to specific pH ranges or restrict use completely. If trace quantities of deleterious quaternizing agents used in syntheses are present, the quaternary ammonium compound should not be used in cosmetics. Long chain fatty amines, which usually account as significant impurity in the quaternary ammonium compounds used for cosmetics, force the use of the quaternary ammonium compound, and the cosmetic itself, to pH s below 7. Below pH 7 the long chain amines exist as surface active salts which produce similar hair conditioning effects as surface active quaternary ammonium compounds. Above pH 7 the amine salts revert to their free organic amine state which cause them to lose their hair conditioning properties, to produce cosmetically unesthetic odors and appearances, and to increase irritation to the skin and eyes. On the other hand, long chain amine oxide surfactants have been freely used in acidic and alkaline cosmetics, toiletries and other consumer products. In alkaline products amine oxide surfactants behave as nonionics they bear neither positive nor negative molecular charges. The nonionic character allows them to be compatible with anionic ingredients in shampoos. Here, amine oxides can serve as foam contributors, foam stabilizers, viscosity enhancing agents, super fatting agents, etc. In nonionic and anionic hair conditioners they can be employed as emulsifiers, thickeners and used for complementing typical fats, oils, and waxes. The diversity of use of amine oxide surfactants is exemplified by the following disclosures. U.S. Patent No. 3,990,991 discloses aqueous shampoo conditioner formulations comprising amphoteric, crypto anionic and cationic surfactants. In the formulations of the examples of this reference, the pH is said to have been in the range of 3.0 to 8.5, even though the preferred pH range was stated to be between 6.2 and 6.9. In the example 7 an amine oxide is used in addition to a preferred quaternary ammonium compound. It does not appear likely that, at the preferred pH s, the amine oxide would have any appreciable cationicity. In fact, the claims recite various quaternary ammonium compounds as the cationic surfactant. Amine oxides are not mentioned in the claims, and although it is not possible to determine from the claims or the specification exactly what their function is, they certainly are not the primary cationic surfactant claimed. The formulations of the present invention employ amine oxides as the U.S. Patent No. 4,080,310 relates to shampoo compositions with hair cleansing and condition components. The formulations of this reference employ cationic or quaternary resins as the conditioning agent therein. Thus, these formulations and the teachings of the reference, at most, are similar to the previously discussed reference and, thereby, the preceding discussion applies to this reference as well. Further, the specification of the reference mentions amine oxides as mere additives to the shampoos of the invention, which have the function of modifying foam properties. The use of amine oxides as conditioners, yet alone the In U.S. Patent No. 4,007,261 conditioner compositions are described which consist essentially of an aqueous emulsion of an alkyl dimethyl amine oxide having from 16 to 22 carbon atoms in the alkyl chain, the pH of which compositions are preferably adjusted to between about 5.0 and 6.0. Specifically the invention encompasses pearlescent effects in such hair conditioners. However, it was found that such amine oxide formulations, namely the formulations having pH values described in this patent, did not provide adequate hair conditioning properties relative to quaternary ammonium surfactants. Augmentation of the amine oxide with quaternary ammonium compounds was required to impart good conditioning properties to formulations. See also, D Cl, July 1981, pgs. 40 42, Amine Oxides in Cosmetic Formulations , Klein, where slightly acid pH amine oxides were suggested as contributing to hair manageability. U.S. Patent No. 4,229,313 employs amine oxides as viscosity builders in cleaning and bleaching compositions for fabrics both U.S. Patent Nos. 4,048,338 and 4,033,895 use amine oxides as counter irritant ingredients in toiletry products to render them milder U.S. Patent No. 4,179,504 uses amine oxides as pharmacologically active ingredients in insecticidal and ovacidal preparations U.S. Patent No. 4,325,821 incorporates amine oxides into an improved froth floatation process to separate mineral ores German Patent No. 2,748,463 employs amine oxides as solubilizing agents for vitamin B derivatives in antiseborrheic products. In acid media nonionic amine oxide surfactants acquire a positive charge through the inductive effects of hydrogen ions of the media. The amine oxides can behave cationic, however weakly catinoic, since the positive charge produces less ionicity than that of quaternary ammonium salts or fatty amine salts. The positive charge, nevertheless, permits complete compatibility in cationic preparations and allows the cationicity of the amine oxide to support the cationicity of the dominant surfactant. An examination of the ingredient content of popular creme rinses, instant conditioners and balsams for hair sold on the market show that these products do not rely solely on amine oxides for conditioning. These acidic preparations employ quaternary ammonium surfactants and or fatty amine salts, which are both strongly cationic, to produce hair conditioning. If amine oxides are present in the ingredient content, they are used for producing conditioning ancillary to the primary cationic surfactant as well as for other specific properties such as thickening, foaming, emulsification, etc. Amine oxide surfactants are recognized as not adsorbing to hair as strongly as quaternary ammonium surfactants and, therefore, do not produce as intense hair conditioning effects as quaternary ammonium salts. Although it was known that amine oxides develop cationic properties, in other words a net positive charge, at low pH values for the reasons stated above, it has not been recognized that the cationic properties of amine oxides could be solely and usefully employed to condition hair in low pH media. It has now been found that at pH values of about the isoelectric pH of hair protein or less, the relatively high molecular weight amine oxides described herein perform advantageously as desirable conditioning agents for hair. The isoelectric point of hair, the state at which the positive and negative ionic charges of hair protein becomes balanced, occurs under acid conditions. The exact point is not exactly known and investigators differ on the range of isoelectric point pH values pH 3.3 to 4.5 by Cook and Smith, Appl. Polym. Symp. An advantage occurs from inducing hair protein, keratin, to gather a neutral ionic charge, that is, to treat hair at its isoelectric point. At the isoelectric point, protein displays its greatest insolubility and greatest ionic stability against chemical reaction. Hair treated at its isoelectric point pH so that hair protein can acquire an uncharged neutral state is conceivably rendered stronger than treatment at other pH s, although this is difficult to prove. Accordingly, this invention provides a composition and means for taking advantage of the cationic properties of amine oxides which have been unapparent at low pH values. It has been surprisingly found that the pH range on or about the isoelectric point of hair or less, i.e., 4.5 to about 2.4 or less, amine oxides acquire a sufficient positive charge to allow them to be substantially adsorbed onto the hair. The adsorbtion is to such an extent that it can allow the employment of amine oxides as the sole conditioning agent in creme rinse products. The rationale for such a phenomena is apparently obscure since at its isoelectric point, hair protein carries no polar charges and should not particularly adsorb the positive charged amine oxide molecules. The precise mechanism is not known by which this unexpected adsorption and resulting conditioning effect at this low pH value takes place. However, it is speculated that the mechanism allows amine oxide surfactant to replace adsorbed hydrogen ions on the hair s surface. At the isoelectric point of hair, that is at approximately a pH range from about pH 2.4 to about 4.5 all of the available negative sites on the hair s surface are filled by positively charged hydrogen ions, i.e., the hair becomes ionically neutral. It is believed that at these low pH s amine oxide molecules gather a sufficient positive charge to allow them to compete for the sites held by the positive hydrogen ions on the surface of hair. Ion exchange takes place in which the amine oxide molecules substitute for the hydrogen ions. The ion exchange is accelerated by the surface activity of the amine oxide molecule which propels the amine oxide molecules to the surface of hair. Hence, it is the combination of surfactant activity and a significantly acquired positive charge through induction in acidic media that allow for the unusual and unexpected effects of amine oxides at about or less than the isoelectric point of hair. This invention also offers the advantage of employing conditioning agents that are considered milder for the user than quaternary ammonium compounds. Amine oxides have been described as non irritating in cosmetic systems and the present invention allows the use of such conditioning agents without addition of highly irritable quaternary ammonium salts. Moreover, the conditioning balance of the hair conditioning composition of this invention may be easily modified by adjusting the pH of the formulation, the concentration of the amine oxide, or the physical or chemical nature of the amine oxide as governed by the properties of the long chain alkyl group s . At lower pH values, the effectiveness of amine oxides are maximized because a greater proportion of the amine oxide molecules are converted to their cationic form. This enables reduced quantities of amine oxides to be used. Or, if less conditioning is desired, the pH of the compositions may be increased and or the concentrations of the amine oxides may be reduced. One skilled in this art will readily understand how to achieve a balance between pH and amine oxide concentration for one s conditioning requirement. Amine oxides are the N oxides of tertiary amines. They may be prepared by methods well known in the art, for example, by reaction of the corresponding tertiary amine with hydrogen peroxide. One example of the amine oxides which are useful in preparing the conditioning composition of this invention include compounds having the formula wherein R₁ and R₂ may be the same or different moieties and are selected from lower C₁ C₄ alkyl, alkoxy and hydroxy alkyl groups and R₃ is a moiety that contains at least 8 carbon atoms. Examples of suitable amine oxides for use in this invention include lauryl dimethyl amine oxide, myristyl dimethyl amine oxide, cetyl dimethyl amine oxide, stearyl dimethyl amine oxide, oleyl dimethyl amine oxide, heptadecyl dimethyl amine oxide, behenyl dimethyl amine oxide, dimethyl cocamine oxide, dimethyl hydrogenated tallow amine oxide, bis hydroxyethyl cocamine oxide, bis hydroxyethyl tallow amine oxide, bis hydroxypropyl stearamine oxide, bis hydroxymethyl behenamine oxide, pentadecyl diethyl amine oxide, tridecyl dipropyl amine oxide, tridecyl bis 2 hydroxybutyl amine oxide, heptadecyl bis 2 hydroxybutyl amine oxide, tridecyloxypropyl bis hydroxyethyl amine oxide. Generally, amine oxides having major alkyl chains of less than about 8 carbon atoms do not provide adequate hair conditioning and tend to be irritating to the user. Better conditioning results are obtained with single long chain amine oxides having 12 or more, and preferably 14 22 carbon atoms in the long chain group and with double long chain amine oxides having as few as 8 carbons in their long chain groups. Preferred among the amine oxides is stearyl dimethyl amine oxide. Other classes of suitable amine oxides include those of the formula wherein R₁ and R₂ are the same or different moities and are selected from moieties of at least 8 carbons, and R₃ is a moiety selected from a lower C₁ C₄ alkyl, alkoxy or hydroxyalkyl group. Examples of suitable amine oxides of this type include, dicoco methyl amine oxide, distearyl methyl amine oxide, dihydrogenated tallow methyl amine oxide, dicetyl methyl amine oxide, cetyl isocetyl methyl amine oxide, lauryl cetyl methyl amine oxide, dilinoleyl methyl amine oxide, disoya methyl amine oxide, diisostearyl methyl amine oxide, distearyl hydroxyethyl amine oxide, stearyl, isostearyl hydroxymethyl amine oxide, hexyl bis 2 hydroxyhexadecyl amine oxide and distearyl hydroxypropyl amine oxide. Another amine oxide class includes those amine oxides of the formula R₁ and R₂ are the same or different moieties and are selected from lower C₁ C₄ alkyl, alkoxy and hydroxyalkyl groups, R₃ is a moiety containing an alkyl chain of at least 8 carbon atoms, and R₄ is a moiety selected from lower C₁ C₄ alkyl group. Examples of suitable amine oxides of this type include cocoylamidopropyl dimethyl amine oxide, myristoylamidopropyl dimethyl amine oxide, stearoylamidoethyl dimethyl amine oxide, linoleoylamidopropyl dimethyl amine oxide, hydrogenated tallow amidoethyl bis hydroxyethyl amine oxide, palmitoylamidoethyl bis hydroxypropyl amine oxide, stearoylamidopropyl dimethyl amine oxide, and hydrogenated tallow amidopropyl dimethyl amine oxide. Still another class of amine oxides includes those amine oxides of the formula wherein R₁ is a moiety having an alkyl chain of at least 8 carbon atoms, and R₂ is a 2 hydroxyethyl or a derivative of 2 hydroxy ethyl or a nonionic derivative of 2 amino ethyl. Examples of suitable amine oxides of this class include oleyic imidazoline 1 hydroxyethyl 2 heptadecenyl 2 imidazoline 1 oxide , stearic imidazoline 1 hydroxyethyl 2 heptadecanyl 2 imidazoline 1 oxide , 1 acetylaminoethyl 2 tridecynyl 2 imidazoline 1 oxide, 1 acetylaminoethyl 2 tridecynyl 2 imidazoline 1 oxide, and 1 ethoxyethyl 2 pentadecanyl 2 imidazoline 1 oxide. Yet another suitable class of amine oxides includes those of the formula wherein R is a moiety having an alkyl chain of at least 6 carbon atoms. Examples of suitable amine oxides of this class include N 2 hydroxynonyl morpholine oxide, N 2 hydroxy pentadecyl morpholine oxide, and N 2 hydroxyheptadecyl morpholine oxide. A further class of amine oxides useful in the cationic hair conditioning compositions of this invention include those of the formula wherein R₁ is a moiety that contains an alkykl chain having at least 8 carbon atoms. R₂ is a moiety from the group consisting of CH₂CH₂O or an alkyl chain of at least 8 carbons x is an integer from 1 to 30, and R₃ and R₄ are the same or different moieties and are selected from a lowe C₁ C₄ alkyl group. The amine oxides are used at a concentration of between 0.5 and 10 by weight of the conditioner formulation. The preferred concentration is between about 1.5 and 6 of the amine oxide by weight of the hair conditioning composition. The pH of the hair conditioning compositions is about or below the isoelectric point of hair protein. Generally speaking, the pH of the compositions of this invention is 4.5 or less. The pH level is dependent upon the irritating properties of the acidic conditioning composition. pH levels as low as 1.8 have been used without noticeable irritation, and it has been preliminarily observed that amine oxides, and particularly stearyl dimethyl amine oxide, act to mitigate the potential for irritation. In general, the composition is prepared by admixing the amine oxide, water and sufficient acid, for example hydrochloric acid, to reduce the pH to below 4.5, and preferably within the range of 2.4 3.8. Other acids that may be used include phosphoric acid and those organic acids acetic, citric, glycolic, etc. that offer sufficient acidity to accommodate the low pH range. Other ingredients may be added to the conditioning composition which serve known functions. For example, ethoxylated cetearyl alcohol which is an emulsifier, cetyl alcohol which is a viscosity builder and superfatting agent and other ingredients such as hydrolyzed protein, perfume, color and preservatives may be added as desired. A 2 gram 10 long tress of double bleached hair is shampooed with a conventional shampoo, and reshampooed to simulate a double shampoo typical of consumer use. The hair is rinsed thoroughly under the tap with tepid water. Five cc of a test hair conditioner is measured with a syringe and applied to the hair tress. The conditioner is worked into the hair tress for a minute and then the tress is rinsed with tepid water under the tap for one minute. The hair is touched, observed, combed, smelled and rated to a control shampooed tress without a conditioner application. Upon drying, the tress is rated again by touching observing, combing and smelling. Tests to determine the substantivity of the cationic amine oxide to hair protein have been conducted using the Rubine Dye Test. The dye test for determining substantivity of cationics to hair demonstrates the degree of adhesive nature of a cationic agent to hair during rinsing with water. Hair treated with a cationic conditioner will gather a rinse fast stain when subjected to the dye the coloration gathered on untreated hair is readily rinsed away. The dye complexes with positively charged surfactant residues on the hair forming a stain that resists rinsing from the hair. Pyrazole Fast Bordeau 2BL was used in these tests in place of Rubine dye because Rubine dye has become unavailable. The amine oxides used in this invention produce a positive Rubine Dye Test response on tresses treated with formulations described herein. The Rubine Dye Test employed a double bleached hair tress which was treated with a cationic conditioning product. After treatment, the tress was rinsed for exactly one minute under tepid tap water. The tress was then towel dried and immersed into a 0.2 aqueous Pyrazol Fast Bordeau 2BL dye solution for 10 seconds. Again, the tress was rinsed under the tap to remove excess dye solution from hair. A residual red stain left on the hair indicated a substantive deposition of cationic amine oxide, whereas a free rinsed control hair tress that had not been treated with the cationic conditioner prior to treatment with dye did not retain a red stain. The hair conditioning delivered by the amine oxide compositions of this invention have properties that are variable and that which may be adjusted for in formulation. Since conditioning effects are relative to the needs of the user, it is a convenience to have adjustable features in formula development to suit the formulator s objectives. Certain users prefer to have as their major objective in hair conditioning excellent detangling of shampooed hair. Others prefer to have less detangling effectiveness but require that their hair feel natural, not overconditioned or heavily coated. Some users like to use clear products others opaque cremes and lotions. Most users prefer to have their hair free of static charge to allow good manageability. The wide range of physical properties that various amine oxides offer are taken advantage of at or about the isoelectric point of hair protein to produce tailor made products that have features that satisfy the user. As a corollary, it is difficult to measure the attributes of a hair conditioning product with only one parameter describing conditioning. In the evaluation of amine oxides and their formulations three parameters have been used to assess hair conditioning effects The results of the tests are shown in the table below