# Procedure for writing on plastic material fabrics, in particular awnings.

## Abstract
The writing on the fabric 1 is accomplished by melting of pieces 7 of the plastic material of the fabric 1 for the creation of impressions of the desired form. Appropriately shaped electrodes 5 supplied with high frequency volt aged are used.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Procedure for writing on plastic material fabrics, in particular for awnings, characterized in that it includes the creation of impressions of the desired form by the application on the fabric, for each impression, of an appropriately shaped electrode capable of causing the melting of the plastic material of the underlying piece of fabric. 2. Product obtained with the above procedure, characterized in that it consists of a plastic material fabric provided with impressions in the form of the desired inscriptions.

## Description
Procedure for writing on plastic material fabrics, in particular awnings, and product thus obtained The present invention relates to a procedure for writing on plastic material fabrics, in particular awnings, and the product obtained with said procedure. The advent of plastic material fabrics is recent, particularly for the creation of various types of awnings. For fabrics of this type the problem has appeared of providing them with inscriptions for their use, for example, in commercial concerns. The techniques presently employed are silk screening and the application of adhesive letters, but neither one is satisfactory.Silk screening creates problems of cleaning, toxic gas influence and still others, while adhesive letters are easily subject to detachment. The object of the present invention is to accomplish a new advantageous procedure for writing on plastic material fabrics. According to the invention said object has been achieved by nlealls of a procedure characterized in that it includes the creation of inpressions of the desired form by application on the fabric, for each inlpression, of an appropriately shaped electrode capable of causing the melting of the plastic material of the underlying piece of fabric. In this manner indelible inscriptions of considerable visual effect are obtained, having used a clean and safe procedure like the one described. The various steps of the procedure according to the invention will be better understood by referring to the annexed drawings, wherein Fig. 1 shows a plan view from above of a piece of plastic material net fabric, on which is applicable the procedure according to the invention Fig. 2 shows said piece of fabric in enlarged section along the line of cut Il II in Fig. 1 Fig. 3 shows the front elevation of an electrode supplied with high frequency voltage for the writing of a letter of the alphabet on the fabric of Fig. 1 Fig. 4 shows said electrode in plan view from below Fig. 5 shows a section of the piece of fabric with a superimposed letter and a welding electrode in operation Fig. 6 shows a plan view from above of the piece of fabric after accomplishment of the writing. With particular reference to Figs. 1 and 2, a piece of plastic material fabric 1 is shown in which a net structure is defined by drops of plastic 2 with interconnexions 3 and by transversal connecting filaments 4. Figs. 3 and 4 in turn show a writing electrode 5 which is supplied with high frequency voltage. The electrtode 5 has a base 6 shaped like the letter of the alphabet to be written on the fabric, in this case like a B . In conformity with the procedure according to the invention, the writing electrode 5 is superimposed on the fabric 1 and appropriately supplied wilth high frequency voltage. The high frequency voltage causes melting of the plastic material of the underlying piece of fabric, leaving thereon the impression 7 of the same shape as the base 6, that is in the form of a 15. After completion of the procedure the fabric I is provided with an indelible inscription in the form of a B, of considerable visual effect. The appearance of the finished fabric with the related inscription can be seen in Figures 5 and 6.