# Support module and assembly for load testing bags.

## Abstract
A spreader module 10 comprising means 42, 88 for suspending a plurality of load testing bags B from a support 5 wherein a plurality of the suspension means 42 are dis posed at a first, upper, level on the module 10 characterised in that at least one suspension means 88 is disposed at a sec ond, lower, level on the module 10 so that, in use, the module is configured to suspend a plurality of bags from the first level and at least one bag from the second level so that the upper por tion of the or each lower bag nests between the upper bags.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A spreader module 10 comprising means 42, 88 for suspending a plurality of load testing bags B from a support 5 wherein a plurality of the suspension means 42 are disposed at a first, upper, level on the module 10 characterised in that at least one suspension means 88 is disposed at a second, lower, level on the module 10 so that, in use, the module is configured to suspend a plurality of bags from the first level and at least one bag from the second level so that the upper portion of the or each lower bag nests between the upper bags. 2. A module 10 according to Claim 1 characterised by an even number of suspension means 42 at the first level and one suspension means 88 at the second level disposed centrally of the suspension means 42 at the first level. 3. A module 10 according to Claim 1 or Claim 2 characterised by being in the shape of an inverted square base pyramid. 4. A module 10 according to any preceding claim characterised by being a dismantlable structure formed from a plurality of struts. 5. A module 10 according to any preceding claim characterised by a plurality of load bearing arms 14, 16, 18, 20 and a like plurality of spacer bars 22, 24, 26, 28 and a centre pin 12 . 6. A module 10 according to claim 5 characterised in that the suspension means 42, 88 are located, in use, at the bottom of the centre pin 12 and the tops of the load bearing arms 14, 16, 18, 20 . 7. A module 10 according to claim 5 or claim 6 characterised by a vertical load bearing centre pin 12 , means 88 for suspending a bag B from the lower end of the centre pin 12 , a plurality of spacer bars 22, 24, 26, 28 extending radially outwardly from the upper end of the centre pin 12 , a load bearing arm 14, 16, 18, 20 connecting the radially outer end of each spacer bar 22, 24, 26, 28 to the lower end of the centre pin 12 and means 42 for suspending a bag from the end of each of the load bearing arms 14, 16, 18, 20 . 8. A module 10 according to Claim 7 wherein, in use, the load bearing arms 14, 16, 18, 20 are fastened a short distance above the lowermost point of the centre pin 12 whereby the weight of the bags B places the load bearing arms 14, 16, 18, 20 under compression against the centre pin 12 . 9. A spreader module 10 for suspending a plurality of load testing bags B from a support 5 and characterised by means 38 for connection to one or more like modules 10 . 10. A spreader assembly comprising a plurality of modules 10 as claimed in any preceding claim interconnected to one another. 11. A spreader assembly according to claim 16 characterised in that two modules 10 are interconnected by a cross bar 110 . 12. A spreader assembly according to claim 10 or claim 11 characterised by a pair of modules 10 interconnected by a joint 104 common to both modules 10 . 13. A load testing assembly comprising a spreader module 10 as claimed in any of claims 1 9 and a plurality of load testing bags B made of a fluid impermeable material suspended from the module 10 . 14. A load testing assembly according to claim 13 arranged so that adjacent ones of the bags B , when filled with fluid, abut one another thereby to equalise laterally acting forces. 15. A load testing assembly according to claim 13 or claim 14 and comprising a spreader assembly as claimed in claim 10 arranged so that adjacent bags B suspended from adjacent modules 10 , when filled, abut one another thereby to equalise laterally acting forces. 16. A device 10 in the shape of an inverted square base pyramid for supporting a plurality of articles B comprising means for suspending an article from each of the four upper vertices of the pyramid.

## Description
SPREADER MODULE AND SPREADER ASSEMBLY The present invention relates to a spreader module for suspending a plurality of load testing bags made of fluid impermeable material and adapted to be suspended from a support point and filled with fluid to test the load bearing strength of hoists, winches, cranes and similar lifting devices. It is known from U.K. Patent No. 2047414B to suspend more than one bag from a single support shackle for the purpose of testing the strength of a crane but the number of bags which can be suspended in this way is very limited due to the bulk of the bags when filled with fluid. It is also known to use a spreader for carrying a plurality of bags in the form of a support frame having a plurality of equiangularly spaced arms radiating outwardly from a central node with a suspension point for a load testing bag at the outer end of each arm.The spreader itself is suspended from a support point positioned directly above the node by means of ropes and shackles. It is then possible to suspend a second tier of bags below the first tier simply by hooking these directly to connectors which extend through the bags in the first tier. However, this type of spreader takes up a relatively large area and, suspension of a second tier of bags below the first requires a relatively large vertical space which, in some testing situations, is not available. It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a spreader module which will enable a substantially greater volume of liquid, and therefore weight to be suspended in a given space than was possible hitherto. According to the present invention we provide a spreader module comprising means for suspending a plurality of load testing bags from a support wherein a plurality of the suspension means are disposed at a first, upper, level on the module characterised in that at least one suspension means is disposed at a second, lower, level on the module so that, in use, the module is configured to suspend a plurality of bags from the first level and at least one bag from the second level so that the upper portion of the or each lower bag nests between the upper bags. An important advantage of a spreader module according to the present invention is that it enables a plurality of load testing bags to be suspended from a support in a compact, space saving manner. In particular, the lower bag or bags nest partially between the upper bags thus reducing the height required for a two tier arrangement. This is particularly advantageous in a load testing situation where the height between the crane hook or other lifting member and the ground is limited. Preferably, the module comprises an even number of suspension means at the first level and one suspension means at the second level disposed centrally of the suspension means at the first level. In a particular embodiment, the module is in the shape of an inverted square base pyramid. This shape has been found to give the optimum load balancing results in practice and enables four bags to be suspended at a first, upper level and a single bag to be suspended at a second, lower, level partially nesting between the four upper bags, thus saving space in a horizontal plane and height. Preferably, the module is in the form of a dismantlable assembly of struts and the struts may be of tubular steel. The module may comprise a plurality of load bearing arms and a like plurality of spacer arms and a centre pin. In a particular embodiment. the module comprises a vertical load bearing centre pin, means for suspending a bag from the lower end of the centre pin, a plurality of spacer bars extending radially outwardly from the upper end of the centre pin, a load bearing arm connecting the radially outer end of each spacer bar to the lower end of the centre pin and means for suspending a bag from the end of each of the load bearing arms. The suspension means may each comprise a padeye. According to another aspect of the invention, we provide a spreader module for suspending a plurality of load testing bags from a support and comprising means for connection to one or more like modules. The modules may each comprise some or all of the features of the modules discussed above. Thus a module according to the present invention can be interlinked with other like modules to form a spreader assembly enabling different test loads to be made up in a simple and convenient manner and is therefore more versatile than the known arrangements. Cross bars may be used to interconnect modules and various, symmetrical, arrangements of a plurality of modules are envisaged. Means may be provided for connecting one or more further bars to the cross bar, which means may be for connecting two further bars to the centre of the cross bar and at right angles to the cross bar. The connecting means may comprise a rigid sleeve provided with a transverse bore for receiving the cross bar and means at each end for connection to a further bar. A spreader assembly may also comprise a pair of modules interconnected by a joint common to both modules. The joint may comprise means for suspending a load testing bag. A load testing assembly comprising a spreader module as herein described and supporting a plurality of load testing bags is preferably arranged so that adjacent ones of the bags, when filled, abut one another thereby to equalise laterally acting forces.This feature is particularly advantageous because it obviates the need for equalising links interconnecting the suspension points of the load testing bags which have been necessary with known spreader arrangements. One or more of the bags may comprise a load supporting cable extending therethrough to enable suspension of a bag directly below the or each bag comprising the load supporting cable. Preferably, a load testing assembly comprising a plurality of interconnected spreader modules supporting a plurality of load testing bags is arranged so that adjacent ones of the bags, when filled, on adjacent ones of the modules abut one another thereby to equalise laterally acting forces. In a load testing assembly according to the present invention the connecting means at the top of the centre pin of each module may be arranged so as to permit suspension of the assembly from a device to be load tested without undesirable sideways acting load forces being applied to the connecting means. According to a further aspect of the present invention we provide a device in the shape of a device in the shape of an inverted square base pyramid for supporting a plurality of articles comprising means for suspending an article from each of the four upper vertices of the pyramid. A particular embodiment of the present invention will now be described, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which Figure 1 is a perspective view of a module according to the present invention Figure 2 is a side view of the module of Figure 1 Figure 3 is a plan view of the module shown inFigures 1 and 2 Figure 4 is a side view of one of the joints on the module of Figures 1 3 Figure 5 is a plan view from above of the joint ofFigure 4 and omitting the lower arm Figure 6 is a cross sectional view along the linesVI VI of Figure 4 Figures 7 and 8 are schematic side and plan views respectively of a module according to the present invention supporting load testing bags Figures 9 and 10 are schematic side and plan views of two interconnected modules supporting load testing bags Figures 11 and 12 are schematic plan and side views of four interconnected modules supporting load testing bags Figure 13 is a side view of a joint interconnecting two of the modules in Figures 11 and 12 Figure 14 is a perspective view of the intersection of the cross bars in Figure 11 and 12. Referring to Figures 1 3, a spreader module indicated generally at 10 comprises a centre pin 12, four load bearing arms 14, 16, 18 and 20 and four spacer bars 22, 24, 26 and 28, all made of tubular steel. The centre pin 12 is of circular cross section and the load bearing arms 14, 16, 18 and 20 and the spacer bars 22, 24, 26, 28 are of square cross section.The load bearing arms have a greater cross sectional area than the spacer bars. The overall shape of the module 10 is that of a square base pyramid and the angle subtended by each of the spacer bars 22, 24, 26 and 28 to the adjacent load bearing arms 14, 16, 18 and 20, respectively, is approximately 450 There is a joint indicated generally at 30 between each of the load bearing arms 14, 16, 18 and 20 and the adjacent one of the spacer bars 22, 24, 26 and 28 which will be described in detail below as will the joints indicated generally at 32 between each spacer bar 22, 24, 26 and 28 and the centre pin 12 and the joints indicated generally at 34 between the load bearing arms 14, 16, 18 and 20 and the centre pin 12. There are connectors 36 and 38 contiguous with the bottom and top of the centre pin 12, respectively. Referring to Figures 4 6, each of the joints 30 comprises a centre plate 40 provided with a padeye 42 from which a load testing bag may be suspended. The padeye 42 consists of two aligned annular plates 44 and 46 welded to opposed sides of the centre plate 40 and aligned with an aperture in the plate 40 thus providing a through bore 48. The joints 30 are all the same and the one shown in Figure 4 is the one joining the spacer bar 24 and the load bearing arm 16. Referring both to Figure 4 and Figure 5, the end of the spacer bar 24 adjacent the joint 30 has welded thereto two aligned plates 50 and 52 each having a rounded end 54 comprising an aperture 56. The apertures 56 are aligned on either side of an aperture 58 in a top portion of the centre plate 40 and there is a washer 60 interposed between each of the plates 50 and 52 and the centre plate 40. A shackle bolt 61 and hexagonal nuts 62 and 63 are used to bolt the spacer bar 24 to the centre plate 40. Referring to Figure 4 and Figure 6, the end of the load bearing arm 16 adjacent the joint 30 has welded thereto two aligned plates 64 and 66, each having a rounded end 68 provided with an aperture 70. The aperture 70 in each of the plates 64 and 66 is aligned with an aperture 72 formed in the centre plate 40. A washer 73 is interposed between each of the plates 64 and 66 and the centre plate 40 and a shackle bolt 74 is passed through the apertures 70 and 72 and has hexagonal nuts 75 and 76 and a split cotter pin 77 to secure the load bearing arm 16 to the centre plate 40. The spacer bars 22, 24, 26 and 28 also each have a pair of the plates 50 and 52 at the end adjacent the centre pin 12 and these are bolted to one of four outwardly radiating flanges 78, 80, 82 and 84 in a similar manner to that shown in Figure 5. The connector 36 contiguous with the bottom of the centre pin 12 comprises a centre plate 86 welded to the centre pin 12 and a padeye 88. The base of the centre pin 12 also has two outwardly radiating flanges 90 and 92. Each of the load bearing arms 14, 16, 18 and 20 comprises a pair of the plates 64 and 66 at the end adjacent the centre pin 12 and these are bolted to the centre plate 86 of the connector 36 or to the flanges 90 and 92 as appropriate in a similar manner to that shown in Figure 6. The connector 38 is welded to the top of the centre pin 12 and comprises a centre plate 94 provided with a padeye 96 and a stiffening plate 98. The stiffening plate 98 resists bending of the connector 38 in the event of lateral forces being applied to the connector 38 which would happen if the load carried by the module 10 were to swing or twist. The centre plate 94 is positioned at 450 to each of the spacer bars 22, 24, 26 and 28 which has been found to be the most suitable angle with regard to the angle of the load applied to the padeye 96 when two and four module arrangements are used as will be hereinafter described. Referring to Figure 7 and Figure 8, the module 10 is shown supporting five load testing bags B1 B5. The load testing bags B1 B5 have been indicated schematically for clarity. Each load testing bag is made of fluid impermeable material and has an inlet for fluid at the top of the bag and a outlet for fluid at the bottom of the bag and is adapted for suspension from a support. A particular load testing bag is disclosed in our U.K. Patent No. 2047414B. In use, the four bags B1 B4 are each suspended, when empty, from one of the padeyes 42 adjacent the top of each of the load bearing arms 14, 16, 18 and 20 and the fifth bag E is suspended from the padeye 88 at the bottom of the centre pin 12. The connector 38 is connected to the lifting device to be tested before the bags B1 B5 are filled with fluid.The bags B1 B5 are then filled with fluid symmetrically and simultaneously so as to balance the weight of the fluid during filling. For example, possible filling operations could include filling bags B1 B4 simultaneously and subsequently filling bag B5 filling bags B1 and B3 simultaneously, subsequently filling bags B2 and B4 simultaneously and finally filling bag B5 filling bags B1, B3 and B5 simultaneously and subsequently filling bags B3 and B4 simultaneously. After filling, the upper part of the bag B5 nests between the bags B1 B4 thus enabling space and height to be saved. It has been found that the inverted square base pyramid shape of the module has particularly advantageous load balancing qualities. The weight of the bags B1 B4 acts downwardly along the load bearing arms 14, 16, 18 and 20 and places these load bearing arms under compression against the centre plate 86 of the connector 36. The weight of the bag B5 pulls downwardly on the centre pin 12 placing the centre pin under tension. The bags B1 B4, when filled, support each other against lateral forces see Figure 8 , thus obviating the need for equalising links interconnecting the four joints 30. Each of the bags B1 B5 weighs 40 tonnes 40,000 kg when filled with fluid therefore the weight of the modular arrangement shown in Figures 7 and 8 is approximately 200 tonnes 200,000 kg . Less than five bags may be suspended using module 10 if desired as long as the bags are arranged, and filled, symmetrically as described above. Examples of possible arrangements referring to the bags shown inFigures 7 and 8 are bags B1, B3 and B5 bags B1 B4 bag B5 on its own. Referring to Figures 9 and 10, the module 10 M1 is connected to a similar module M2 by a cross bar 100.The cross bar 100 is of square section tubular steel and is fastened at each end to the connectors 38 and 38 of the modules M1 and M2, respectively. The ends of the cross bar 100 are provided with parallel plates which fit over the padeye 96 and are bolted thereto.There is a square section bracket 102 disposed centrally of the cross bar 100 to enable another bar to be attached at right angles to the cross bar 100 if desired. The dotted lines in Figure 9 represent cables for attaching the modules M1 and M2 to the device to be tested. Each of these cables is attached to the padeye 96 of the respective module 10 or 10 by a shackle not shown . The angle of the padeye 96 has been chosen so that the shackles are able to swivel under load in the padeye 96 without applying any side load to the padeye 96. This arrangement enables ten load testing bagsB1 B10 to be suspended as shown in Figure 10. The lower bags B5 and B10 nest inbetween the upper bagsB1 B4 and B6 Bg, respectively, thus saving height and space. Adjacent ones of the bags B1 B4 and B6 Bg abut one another thus balancing lateral forces. Each of the bags B1 B10 weighs 40 tonnes 40,000 kg therefore the weight of the entire load testing arrangement shown in Figures 9 and 10 is approximately 400 tonnes 400,000 kg . The modular arrangement shown in Figures 9 and 10 may be employed using less than ten load testing bags provided that these are arranged symmetrically, for example, using only bags B1 B8 or only bags B5 and B10. Referring to Figures 11 and 12, a four module arrangement is shown in which four modules M1, M2, M3 and M4 are directly interconnected to form a square.The modules M1, M2, M3 and M4 are similar to the module 10 hereinbefore described apart from the fact that one of the joints 30 is replaced by the joint 104 shown inFigure 13. Referring to Figure 13, the joint 104 comprises a centre plate 106 provided with a padeye 108. The centre plate 106 comprises four apertures through which one of the spacer bars 22, 24, 26 or 28 and one of the load bearing arms 14, 16, 18 or 20 from each of two adjacent modules is fastened using shackle bolts.Figure 13 shows a spacer bar 24 and a load bearing arm 16 from each of two modules and these are fastened to the centre plate 106 in an exactly analagous way to that used in the joint 30 as shown in Figures 4 6. Figures 11 and 12 show the modules M1 and M3 interconnected by a cross bar 110 which passes through a joint 112. A bar 114 interconnects the joint 112 and the module M2 and a bar 116 interconnects the joint 112 and the module M4. The cross bar 110 and the bars 114 and 116 are all made of square section tubular steel. The joint 112 is shown in detail in Figure 14 and comprises a metal sleeve 118 of square section comprising two aligned square apertures in opposed sides to accommodate the cross bar 110. There are rounded end plates 120 and 122 welded to the end of each of the bars 114 and 116. Each end plate 120 and 122 has an aperture which is aligned with an aperture in the sleeve 118 and a bolt 124 is passed through these apertures to secure each of the bars 114 and 116 to the sleeve 118. The bags B1 B20 represented schematically inFigures 11 and 12 are load testing bags of the type shown in Figure 7 10. The bags B1 B20 are arranged in three tiers, an upper tier comprising twelve bagsB1 B12, an intermediate tier comprising four bagsB13 B16 and a lower tier comprising four bags B17 B20. The four module arrangement is suspended from the device to be load tested using four cables extending from a support point 5, each cable being attached to the padeye 96 on one of the modules M1 M4. Two of the cables 126 and 128 are indicated by dotted lines inFigure 12. The angular disposition of the padeye 96 of each module M1 M4 is such that the shackle connecting each cable to a padeye 96 is able to twist under load without applying a side load to the padeye 96. The upper tier of bags B1 B12 is made up of a bag suspended from the outwardly projecting joint 30 of each of the moudles M1 M4 bags B1 B3, B6, B7 and B10 B12 and four further bags B4, B5, B8 and Bg one each being suspended from the padeye 108 of the joint 105 interconnecting adjacent ones of the modules M1 M4.The bags B4, B5, B8 and Bg are each provided with a load supporting cable which extends through the bag to enable another bag to be suspended directly below the first bag. The weight of the lower bag is borne by the support from which the upper bag is suspended and an example of such an arrangement is disclosed in our U.K.Patent 2047414B. The intermediate layer comprises the four bagsB13 B16 and these are shown in dotted lines in Figure 11. The bags B13 B16 are each suspended from the padeye 88 at the bottom of the centre pin 12 of one of the modules M1 M4 and these bags each nest between four of the bags B1 B12 in the upper tier. The lower tier comprises four bags B17 B20 each suspended by means of the load supporting cable extending through one of the bags B4, B5, B8 and B9 as mentioned above. Each of the bags B17 B20 lies directly below one of the bags B4, B5, B8 and Bg and is therefore not visible in Figure 11. Each of the bagsB17 B20 nests between two of the bags B13 B16 in the intermediate tier. In use, the four module arrangement is suspended from a device to be load tested and the bags B1 B20 are suspended, when empty, according to the arrangement shown in Figures 11 and 12 and subsequently filled with fluid, for example, sea water. The bags B1 B20 are filled with fluid symmetrically and simultaneously so as to balance the weight of the fluid during filling. For example, possible filling operations could include filling bags B1 B12 simultaneously, subsequently filling bags B13 B16 simultaneously and filling bags B17 B20 simultaneously. It will be appreciated that many alternative filling sequences are possible. After filling, adjacent ones of the bags B1 B20 in the upper tier abut one another thereby supporting each other against lateral forces thus obviating the need for equalising links interconnecting the eight joints 30. Adjacent ones of the bags B17 B20 in the lower tier also abut one another thereby supporting each other against lateral forces. It will be seen that the three tier arrangement shown in Figures 11 and 12 in which the bags B1 B20 nest in between one another is a particularly compact, space saving arrangement. Each of the bags B1 B20, when filled with water, weighs 40 tonnes 40,000 kg so that the entire weight of the load testing arrangement is 800 tonnes 800,000 kg . The four module arrangement shown in Figures 11 and 12 can be used with less than twenty load testing bags provided the bags are arranged symmetrically, for example, using only bags B1 B16 or, alternatively, using only bags B3 B10 and B13 B20. It will be appreciated that other symmetrical arrangments are possible. It will be understood that it is envisaged to provide spreader modules which are suitable for use with load testing bags over a wide weight range, for example, load testing bags which, when filled with water, have a weight in the range 10 50 tonnes 10,000 50,000 kg .