# IMMUNOASSAY FOR BIOLOGICALLY ACTIVE HUMAN INTERFERON GAMMA

## Claims
Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragsstaaten DE, FR, GB, NL

## Description
This invention is in the field of immunochemistry and pertains to methods for detecting, quantifying biologically active human interferon gamma huIFN gamma or macrophage activation factor MAF employing monoclonal antibodies specific for the active form of human interferon gamma. Interferon gamma IFN gamma , also called immune interferon, is secreted by T lymphocytes when stimulated by mitogen or antigen. Wheelock, E. F. 1965 , Originally, the activation of macrophages was ascribed to a putative lymphokine, termed macrophage activation factor MAF . However, recently it has become almost certain that IFN gamma is identical to MAF. Some of the evidence supporting the identity of the two factors includes the following 1 monoclonal antibodies specific for IFN gamma neutralize all MAF activity in supernatant of activated T lymphocytes 2 IFN gamma and MAF activity are copurified in all isolation procedures and 3 recombinant As IFN gamma is such an important T cell factor in host defense and in regulation of immune responses, immunologists have studied how the secretion of IFN gamma by T lymphocytes is regulated under various conditions Functional assays for interferons, generally, are based on the ability of interferons to inhibit lysis of cultured human fibroblasts infected by viruses. See, for example Havell, E.A. and Vilcek, J. 1972 Monoclonal antibodies have proven useful for the characterization, identification, quantification and purification of various lymphokines. Some monoclonal antibodies to huIFN gamma have been described in the literature. Hockeppel and De Ley describe a monoclonal antibody of the IgM class which reacts with huIFN gamma but is unable to neutralize the antiviral activity of the lymphokine. Hockeppel, H.K. and M. De Ley 1982 This invention pertains to immunochemical assays for biologically active human interferon gamma huIFN gamma and methods for immunopurification of huIFN gamma. The assays and immunopurification techniques employ monoclonal anti huIFN gamma antibodies which react specifically with the active form of huIFN gamma. The antibodies do not react with the inactive form of huIFN gamma. Additionally the antibodies are interferon type specific, that is, they react with interferon gamma but not the alpha and beta types of interferon. Another significant attribute of the antibodies is that they react with both natural huIFN gamma and recombinant huIFN gamma. The immunoassays of this invention include sandwich or two site immunoradiometric assays and competitive binding assays such as radioimmunoassays. They provide rapid, highly sensitive, type specific methods of detecting and quantifying biologically active natural or recombinant huIFN gamma. For instance, a solid phase forward sandwich immunoradiometric assay is disclosed which may be performed in about 5 6 hours and is capable of detecting levels of huIFN gamma as low as 0.02 ng ml. Because IFN gamma is apparently identical to MAF, a point explored in more detail According to the present invention, there is provided an assay for biologically active natural or recombinant huIFN gamma or MAF in a liquid sample comprising the steps of Also according to the present invention, there is provided an immunoassay for biologically active natural or recombinant huIFN gamma or MAF in a liquid sample comprising the steps of The invention also provides an immunoassay for biologically active natural or recombinant huIFN gamma or MAF in a liquid sample comprising the steps of A forward sandwich immunoradiometric assay comprises, according to the present invention, the steps of The invention also provides an assay kit for biologically active huIFN gamma or MAF in a liquid sample characterised by including The kit may further include a huIFN gamma standard, and the immunoadsorbent can comprise polystyrene beads on which the aforesaid antibody is affixed. Figure 1 illustrates the concentration related binding of monoclonal antibodies B1 and B3 to natural and recombinant huIFN gamma in a solid phase radioimmunoassay. Figure 2 illustrates the concentration related binding of monoclonal antibodies B1 and B3 to natural and recombinant huIFN gamma in an immunoprecipitation assay. Figure 3 illustrates an elution profile of ¹²⁵I huIFN gamma from a B1 Sepharose immunoadsorbent column. Figure 4 illustrates the electrophoretic migration pattern on SDS PAGE of an huIFN gamma fraction from affinity chromatography with the antibody B3 having peak interferon activity. Figure 5 illustrates the results of a forward sandwich immunoradiometric assay of huIFN gamma using B1 antibody coated polystyrene beads and ¹²⁵I labeled B3 antibody tracer. Figure 6 illustrates the results of a sandwich immunoradiometric assay of recombinant Figure 7 illustrates results of a sandwich immunoradiometric assay of huIFN gamma in human, fetal calf and mouse sera. Figure 8 illustrates that the B1 B3 sandwich immunoradiometric assay is interferon type specific. Figure 9 illustrates the results of a B1 B3 sandwich immunoradiometric assay for huIFN gamma performed after all kit components were stored at 4 C for various periods of time. Figure 10 illustrates the results of a B1 B3 antibody sandwich immunoradiometric assay for huIFN gamma after all kit components were stored at various temperatures for one week. Figure 11 illustrates the results of a B1 B3 antibody sandwich immunoradiometric assay for huIFN gamma after one of the kit components was stored at 37 C for one week. Figure 12 illustrates results of a B1 B3 antibody sandwich immunoradiometric assay for chemically and heat inactivated huIFN gamma. To establish groundwork for description of the assays this invention, the distinctive characteristics of the monoclonal antibodies of this invention are described. Monoclonal anti huIFN gamma antibodies of this invention specifically react with epitopes of huIFN gamma associated with the biologically active configuration of the lymphokine. Two monoclonal antibodies specific for distinct epitopes of biologically active huIFN gamma have been prepared. These antibodies are designated B1 and B3. The antibodies have been deposited at the American Type Culture Collection ATCC in Rockville, Maryland and have been assigned the following ATCC accession numbers Both antibody B1 and B3 antibody exhibit dose related binding to purified natural huIFN gamma and recombinant In addition to neutralizing the antiviral activity of huIFN gamma, the monoclonal antibody B3 exhibits several other significant properties. The B3 antibody abolishes the ability of natural huIFN gamma and recombinant huIFN gamma to augment monocyte cytotoxicity for tumor cells. The B3 antibody also abolishes induction of monocyte cytotoxicity by mitogen induced lymphocyte cultures. Thus, the B3 antibody neutralizes the MAF like activity of huIFN gamma. This supports the belief that huIFN gamma and MAF are the same entity. Additionally, when the anti viral activity of supernatants of mitogen activated T lymphocytes is neutralized with B3 antibody, MAF activity is coincidentally abrogated in these preparations. That both activities are abolished by the B3 antibody indicates that MAF activity in these preparations is due entirely to IFN gamma. The capability of the B3 antibody to neutralize both natural huIFN gamma and Evidence that the B3 antibody reacts only with active huIFN gamma derives from several sources. In a solid phase radioimmunoassay, the B3 antibody binds to insolubilized IFN gamma but not to huIFN gamma inactivated by acid pH 2 and heat treatment. In addition, the B3 antibody does not bind to sodium dodecyl sulfate NaDodSO₄ treated natural or recombinant huIFN gamma, apparently owing to the denaturation of IFN gamma by NaDodSO₄. As pointed out, the B1 antibody binds huIFN gamma in direct binding assays and immunoprecipitates huIFN gamma, but it does not neutralize the anti viral activity of either natural or recombinant huIFN gamma. This implies that the epitope with which the B1 antibody reacts is not associated with the active site of the molecule and that it is different from the epitopes recognized by the B3 and the GIF 1 antibodies. Though not associated with the active site of the molecule, the epitope recognized by the B1 antibody is nevertheless distinctive to the biologically active form of huIFN gamma. Like the B3 antibody, the B1 antibody does not bind to IFN gamma exposed to NaDodSO₄. And, as detailed below, the B1 antibody binds only the active form of the molecule when used in affinity chromatography. Affinity chromatography on columns formed of monoclonal antibodies have been used for purification of human leukocyte IFN alpha and human fibroblast IFN beta interferon with recoveries of about 50 60 of IFN activity reported. See Novick, D. et al. 1982 Immunopurification of huIFN gamma, which is outside of the scope of the present invention, may be performed according to the following procedure. A monoclonal antibody which binds biologically active huIFN gamma is immobilized by affixing it to a solid phase to form an immunoadsorbent which specifically adsorbs biologically active huIFN gamma. A liquid sample from which biologically active huIFN gamma is to be purified is contacted with the immunoadsorbent under conditions which allow the IFN gamma in the liquid to be adsorbed by the immunoadsorbent. The immunoadsorbent and the liquid are then separated. Usually, the immunoadsorbent is washed, and then, the IFN gamma is recovered from the immunoadsorbent. In conventional affinity chromatography, the immunoadsorbent usually comprises antibody conjugated particles which are packed into a column. This is the convenient embodiment for interferon affinity purification. Anti huIFN gamma antibody conjugated particles, preferably beads, are packed into a column and the IFN gamma containing liquid is passed through the column. The IFN gamma is retained because of the binding affinity of the immunoadsorbent for the lymphokine. After washing, the IFN gamma is recovered, most often by elution with an eluant which causes the bound huIFN gamma to dissociate from the immunoadsorbent. The eluant should yield high recovery of huIFN gamma, that is, the eluant should cause complete dissociation of the huIFN gamma from the immunoadsorbent without causing any significant loss of biological activity. The B1 antibody is particularly suitable for affinity chromatography. When a highly purified preparation of radiolabeled huIFN gamma is loaded onto an affinity column prepared with the B1 antibody coated Sepharose beads, only a small fraction of the total radioactivity binds to the affinity column, and the bulk of this bound huIFN gamma is eluted in biologically active form. The unbound radioactivity lacks IFN gamma activity yet exhibits an electrophoretic profile similar to that of the eluted fraction which contains all activity, indicating that the unbound protein is very likely inactive huIFN gamma. Analysis of the IFN gamma eluted from the column indicates that both of the known subspecies of IFN gamma, the 25,000 and 20,000 molecular weight subunits, and the presumed dimer of 45,000 molecular weight, are adsorbed by the B1 antibody affinity column. Recovery of up to 81 of the huIFN gamma activity applied to the column has been obtained with B1 antibody columns but only when the IFN gamma is eluted into serum containing buffered tissue culture medium. Those skilled in the art may improve the technique by modifying the elution conditions by routine experimentation. The monoclonal anti human IFN gamma antibodies which exhibit the characteristics set forth above are produced by antibody producing cell lines. The antibody producing cell lines include hybrid cell lines commonly known as hybridomas. The hybridomas are formed from the fusion of an anti human IFN gamma antibody producing cell and an immortalizing cell line, that is, a cell line which imparts long term tissue culture stability to the resulting hybrid cell. In the formation of the hybrid cell lines, the first fusion partner the anti human IFN gamma antibody producing cell can be a B lymphocyte obtained from the spleen, peripheral blood, lymph nodes or other lymphoid tissue of an animal immunized against huIFN gamma. The second fusion partner the immortalizing cell can be a lymphoblastoid or plasmacytoma cell myeloma cell . Alternatively, the immortalizing cell itself can be a hybrid cell such as a non antibody secreting hybridoma. Shulman, M. et al. 1978 The B1 and B3 monoclonal antibodies are produced by murine hybridomas formed by fusion of a mouse hybridoma which does not secrete antibody and murine spleen cells which secrete antibodies obtained from mice immunized against human IFN gamma. Purified human IFN gamma for immunization may be isolated from culture media of activated human lymphocytes. A preferred method for isolation and purification of human IFN gamma for immunization is the method described by Yip, Y.K. et al. 1982 A variety of different immunization protocols can be used to immunize the mice. In general the mice are administered a primary injection of huIFN gamma followed by a number of boosting injections of the lymphokine. During or after the immunization procedure, serum of the mice may be screened to identify those mice in which a substantial immune response to the IFN gamma has been evoked. From selected mice, the spleen cells are obtained and fusions are performed. Suitable fusion techniques are the Sendai virus technique, Kohler, G. and Milstein, C. 1975 The hybridomas are then screened for production of anti huIFN gamma antibody. A suitable screening technique is a solid phase radioimmunoassay. A solid phase immunoadsorbent is prepared by coupling huIFN gamma to an insoluble matrix. The immunoadsorbent is brought into contact with culture supernatants of hybridomas. After a period of incubation, the solid phase is separated from the supernatants, then contacted with a labeled antibody against murine immunoglobulin. Label associated with the immunoadsorbent indicates the presence of hybridoma products reactive with IFN gamma. The hybridoma products are then examined for their ability to react with natural and recombinant huIFN gamma, and active and inactive forms of the molecule. The monoclonal anti huIFN gamma antibodies are produced in large quantities by injecting anti huIFN gamma producing hybridoma cells into the peritoneal cavity of mice, and after an appropriate time, harvesting ascites fluid from the mice which yields a very high titer of homogenous antibody and isolating the monoclonal antibodies therefrom. Alternatively, the antibodies can be produced by culturing anti huIFN gamma producing cells Because the antibodies of this invention discriminate between the active and inactive forms of huIFN gamma, they permit immunochemical assay of biologically active huIFN gamma. A particularly preferred type of immunochemical assay is a sandwich immunoradiometric assay IRMA in which antigen is measured directly by reacting it with an excess of labeled antibody. In such assays, before the antigen is reacted with labeled antibody, it is insolubilized on an immunoadsorbent which specifically binds the antigen. The immunoadsorbent is formed by affixing an antibody specific for biologically active huIFN gamma. In sandwich assays for an antigen which is monomeric, two antibodies which recognize distinct epitopes on the antigen are required so that there is no competition for binding to antigen. One is used to form the immunoadsorbent the other is used as the labeled tracer. In assays for dimeric or polymeric antigens, the same antibody can be used to form the immunoadsorbent as as the labeled tracer. Sandwich IRMA s may be performed in forward, reverse or simultaneous mode. In a forward sandwich assay for huIFN gamma, a monoclonal antibody directed against an epitope of biologically active huIFN gamma is affixed to a solid phase to form an immunoadsorbent specific for biologically active huIFN gamma. A liquid sample containing huIFN gamma is incubated with the immunoadsorbent. Incubation is maintained for a sufficient period of time to allow the huIFN gamma in the liquid sample to bind the immobilized antibody on the immunoadsorbent. After this first incubation, the solid phase immunoadsorbent is separated from the incubation mixture. The immunoadsorbent may be washed to remove unbound huIFN gamma and interfering substances, such as non specific binding proteins, which may also be present in the liquid sample. The immunoadsorbent containing huIFN gamma bound to immobilized antibody is subsequently incubated with labeled antibody specific for biologically active huIFN gamma. The antibody may be the same antibody as that immobilized to form the immunoadsorbent, or it may be an antibody specific for a different epitope of biologically active huIFN gamma. Again, the incubation is carried out for a period of time and under conditions sufficient to ensure binding of the labeled antibody to IFN gamma. After the second incubation, another wash may be performed to remove unbound labeled antibody from the solid phase immunoadsorbent. The labeled antibody bound to the solid phase immunoadsorbent is then measured, and the amount of labeled antibody detected serves as a direct measure of the amount of biologically active huIFN gamma present in the liquid sample. The B1 and B3 monoclonal antibodies provide the basis for an extremely sensitive forward sandwich IRMA for huIFN gamma. In preferred configuration, the B1 antibody is used to form the immunoadsorbent and the B3 antibody serves as the labeled antibody, and the assay is performed as outlined. With these two antibodies, the assay is specific for biologically active huIFN gamma and highly sensitive levels of huIFN gamma in serum or tissue culture fluid at limiting concentrations of 0.02 ng ml have been detected. This represents at least a forty fold increase in sensitivity over existing bioassays for IFN gamma which have only detected at levels of 1 ng 10 ng ml. Recently Novick et al. described an IRMA employing mouse monoclonal antibodies against huIFN gamma. See Novick, D. et al. 1983 The forward sandwich IRMA may also be run in the opposite configuration, that is, the B3 antibody may be used to construct the solid phase immunoadsorbent and the B1 antibody used as the soluble labeled antibody. However, in this configuration a decrease in sensitivity is observed, probably because the B3 antibody has a higher affinity for huIFN gamma than the B1 antibody. The forward sandwich IRMA can also be constructed with one of the antibodies, e.g. either the B1 or B3. In this case, the antibody immobilized to form the immunoadsorbent and the labeled antibody are the same. A sandwich IRMA of this configuration may be used to assay dimeric or polymeric forms of biologically active huIFN gamma. The sandwich IRMA may also be performed in reverse and simultaneous modes. In reverse mode, an incubation mixture is formed of the liquid sample to be tested and a soluble labeled antibody directed against an epitope of biologically active huIFN gamma e.g. labeled B3 antibody . The mixture is incubated, then contacted with a solid phase immunoadsorbent containing a monoclonal antibody directed against the same e.g. the B3 antibody or a different epitope e.g. the B1 antibody of biologically active huIFN gamma. After another incubation, the immunoadsorbent is separated from the mixture and the label bound to the immunoadsorbent is taken as an indication of the amount of huIFN gamma in the liquid sample. In the simultaneous mode, an incubation mixture is formed of the liquid sample, the labeled anti huIFN gamma antibody and the solid phase immunoadsorbent. When antibodies which react with different epitopes are employed, they do not compete for binding. After appropriate incubation, the solid phase immunoadsorbent is separated from the mixture and the label associated with the immunoadsorbent is measured to give an indication of the amount of biologically active hu IFN gamma in the liquid sample. For each incubation step in the various formats of the assays, the time and conditions of incubation are selected to ensure maximal binding huIFN gamma to the immobilized antibody and to labeled antibody. In the forward IRMA, where two incubation steps are required, the solid phase immunoadsorbent containing immobilized anti huIFN gamma antibody is incubated with the liquid sample for about two hours at room temperature to obtain maximal binding. The optimal duration of the subsequent incubation with labeled antibody is about three hours at room temperature. The entire assay may be run in about 5 6 hours. Thus, besides being the most sensitive assay for huIFN gamma heretofore described, the assay is the most rapid. The parameters which yield maximal binding of huIFN gamma may be established for other formats of the IRMA by no more than routine experimentation. In addition to the IRMA s described herein, the immunoassays of this invention include competitive binding assays such as radioimmunoassay RIA . A preferred type of RIA is a solid phase RIA. A solid phase immunoadsorbent is prepared as described for the IRMA. The immunoadsorbent is then incubated with the liquid sample and a known amount of labeled IFN gamma for a period of time and under conditions which permit binding of the IFN gamma to the immunoadsorbent. The immunoadsorbent is separated from the liquid sample and the amount of label associated therewith is assessed. By reference to a preestablished inhibition curve defining the relationship between labeled huIFN gamma associated with the immunoadsorbent and the amount of unlabeled huIFN gamma in the liquid sample, the amount of huIFN gamma in the liquid sample is determined. In the various solid phase assays of this invention, the immunoadsorbent is separated from incubation mixtures containing the liquid sample, the labeled antibody or both. Separation can be accomplished by any conventional separation technique such as sedimentation or centrifugation. Preferably, though not necessarily, the immunoadsorbent is washed prior to contacting it, when required, with a second incubation medium and prior to measuring the amount of label associated with the immunoadsorbent. The washing removes nonspecific interfering substances or excess labeled antibody which may affect the accuracy and sensitivity of the assay. The immunoassays of this invention are used to detect and quantify huIFN gamma in a liquid sample. Liquid samples include essentially all biological fluids such as blood, or components of blood such as plasma or serum and urine, lymph, etc. Also, the liquid sample may be a sample of a liquid medium in which lymphocytes or other mammalian cells have been cultured. They may also be extracts or supernatants of microbial cultures. As noted, the assays can be used to detect recombinant huIFN gamma produced by genetically altered cells. Recombinant huIFN gamma detectible by the assays includes huIFN gamma expressed by genetically engineered microorganisms such In the solid phase IRMA s and RIA s of this invention the monoclonal antibodies reactive with biologically active huIFN gamma are immobilized by affixing them to a solid phase to create an immunoadsorbent. Many types of solid phases may be employed. Well known solid phases include beads formed from glass, polystyrene, polypropylene, dextran, and other materials tubes formed from or coated with such materials, etc. The antibody can be either covalently or noncovalently bound to the solid phase by techniques such as covalent bonding via an amide or ester linkage or adsorption. Those skilled in the art will know many other suitable solid phases and methods for immobilizing antibodies thereon, or will be able to ascertain such using no more than routine experimentation. In each of the IRMA s, a monoclonal anti huIFN gamma antibody directed against an epitope of biologically active huIFN gamma is also used as the labeled antibody tracer . Such antibodies can be labeled with a radioactive material, such as ¹²⁵I labeled with an optical label, such as a fluorescent material labeled with an enzyme or labeled by some other technique. To determine the amount of huIFN gamma in the liquid sample, either the amount of label associated with the immunoadsorbent or the amount of unbound labeled antibody, that is, labeled antibody which remains in soluble form, is measured. Generally, it is preferable to measure the label bound to the immunoadsorbent because at very low concentrations of antigen, only small amounts of labeled antibody bind the immunoadsorbent. Thus, for accuracy the label associated with the immunoadsorbent should be measured directly. The label may be detected by a gamma counter, for example, if the label is a radioactive gamma emitter, or by a fluorimeter, for example, if the label is a fluorescent material. In the case of an enzyme label, detection may be done by colorimetric methods employing a competing substrate for the enzyme. The measured amount of label detected is then compared to a pre established quantitative relationship between the amount of label and the amount of biologically active hu IFN gamma. The quantitative relationship can be determined by performing the IRMA with standards liquid samples containing known amounts of biologically active huIFN gamma. For several samples containing different amounts of huIFN gamma, the assay is conducted and the amount of label either bound or unbound to the immunoadsorbent is determined a curve is constructed defining the quantitative relationship between the amount of label and the amount of huIFN gamma. By reference to the curve, the amount of huIFN gamma in a liquid sample containing an unknown amount of huIFN gamma can be determined from the amount of label detected. The reagents for performing the assays of this invention may be assembled in assay kits. For instance a kit for performing an IRMA for huIFN gamma would comprise a solid phase immunoadsorbent containing an antibody specific for one epitope of biologically active huIFN gamma, a labeled monoclonal antibody specific for a different epitope of biologically active IFN gamma and, optionally, an huIFN gamma standard. The B1 and B3 monoclonal antibodies are suitable for kits because reagents formed with the B1 and B3 monoclonal are stable over a significant period of time when stored. For example B1 antibody coated polystyrene beads the immunoadsorbent and ¹²⁵I radiolabeled B3 antibody have retained complete activity for at least 8 weeks when stored at 4 C. HuIFN gamma standards are not stable at elevated temperatures. The invention is illustrated further by the following examples. A solid phase radioimmunoassay was used to assess the reactivity of antibody with active and inactive forms of huIFN gamma. Approximately 500 units of highly purified huIFN gamma in 0.1 ml PBS, or the same amounts of IFN gamma inactivated by pH 2 and heat treatment, were added to each vinyl well. After incubation for 2 hours, the wells were briefly washed, and then sealed with 1 BSA for 1 hour. The wells were then washed 3 times with PBS Tween, and approximately 40,000 cpm of purified ¹²⁵I labeled B3 antibody were added to each well. The wells were incubated for an additional 2 hours and then washed 4 times with PBS Tween, cut and counted. For neutralization assay, samples were incubated with monoclonal antibody in culture supernatant or ascites form for 1 hour at 37 C, and residual IFN activities were determined. To titrate the neutralizing activity of antibodies, serial dilutions of antibody preparations 100 ul were mixed with IFN gamma 30 U ml in 50 ul and incubated in microtiter plates for 1 hour at 37 C. FS 4 cells were then added to the wells. The cultures were challenged with EMC virus after overnight incubation. One neutralizing unit is defined as the reciprocal of antibody dilution required to neutralize the antiviral action of IFN gamma, determined by reversal of the inhibitory action on viral cytopathic effect. MAF control was prepared by incubation of PBM at 5 x 10⁶ cells ml in RPMI 1640 medium containing 10 FBS and 10 ug ml phytohemagglutinin A PHA, Wellcome Research Laboratories, Beckenham, Kent, England for 24 hours at 37 C. After 3 washing the stimulated PBM were resuspended in the original volume of RPMI 1640 medium plus 10 FBS, and were further cultivated for 24 hours. The supernatant was used as MAF containing lymphokine control Mantovani, A. et al. 1980 Figure 1 illustrates the dose related binding observed with the solid phase immunoassay. Hybridomas were cultured in growth medium at approximately 3 x 10⁵ cells ml for 5 days, and the supernatants were diluted serially. Results are expressed as the radioactivity of second antibody adsorbed in vinyl wells in which B1 bound to rIFN gamma closed circles or IFN gamma closed triangles , and B3 bound to rIFN gamma open circles or IFN gamma open triangles . The specific activity of natural IFN gamma and rIFN gamma was 1 5 x 10⁵ U mg and 1 x 10⁶ U mg, respectively. Results of an immunoprecipitation assay are depicted in Figure 2. Hybridomas were cultured in growth medium at approximately 3 x 10⁵ cells ml for 5 days, and the supernatants were diluted serially. Results are expressed as the radioactivity of immunoprecipitates formed by binding of B1 and ¹²⁵I rIFN gamma closed circles , B1 and ¹²⁵I IFN gamma closed triangles , B3 and ¹²⁵I rITN gamma open circles or B3 and ¹²⁵I IFN gamma open triangles . The specific activity of natural IFN gamma and rIFN gamma was 1 5 x 10⁵ U mg and 1 x 10⁶ U mg, respectively. Marked binding activities of the antibodies in culture supernatants was regularly observed at 10 ¹ to 10 ² dilutions. The differences in the amounts of the antibodies bound to natural IFN gamma and rIFN gamma were apparently due to the higher specific activity of the latter preparation. Ascitic fluids, harvested about 10 days after inoculation of B1 or B3 hybridoma cells into BALB c mice, showed significant binding activities at 10 ⁶ dilution in the immunoprecipitation assay results not shown . The culture supernatant and ascitic fluid of hybridoma B3 were found to contain approximately 1,000 and 50,000 neutralizing units ml, respectively. Since B3 did not neutralize either IFN alpha or IFN beta, this monoclonal antibody appears to be specific for IFN gamma. The B3 antibody reacts only with the active form of huIFN gamma. The results of a solid phase radioimmunoassay for B3 reactivity toward active and denatured IFN gamma are shown in Table II. Radio labeled B3 antibody bound and insolubilized active IFN gamma but not to IFN gamma denatured by acid pH 2 and heat treatment. Availability of a neutralizing monoclonal antibody also made it possible to examine the still unresolved question whether the lymphokine, termed macrophage activating factor MAF , present in the supernatants of PBM stimulated with T cell mitogens, is different from IFN gamma. The results of an experiment with two crude MAF containing lymphokine preparations are shown in Table IV. The supernatants of PBM induced with TPA and PHA or with PHA alone, contained both antiviral and MAF activities. In spite of the lower antiviral activity of the preparation produced with PHA alone, this preparation which has been used as a standard MAF control showed high MAF activity. These results are in agreement with our earlier findings that very low doses of IFN gamma in terms of antiviral units are sufficient to produce near maximal enhancement of monocyte cytotoxicity in this assay. When antiviral activity was neutralized with B3 ascites, MAF activity was also abrogated in both preparations. The fact that both activities were coincidently abolished by B3 ascites indicates that MAF activity in these preparations is due entirely to IFN gamma. In order to minimize inactivation of IFN gamma, the resulting fractions were immediately adjusted to neutrality by dilution in medium. A major peak of IFN gamma activity was eluted at about pH 3.5 Fr. 52 56 containing 51 of total original IFN gamma activity and 8 of total radioactivity. As the elution buffer reached pH 2.5, an additional 30 of IFN gamma activity and 8 of radioactivity were recovered Fr. 57 70 . Since the IFN gamma preparation used for iodination had been purified to within 80 90 of homogeneity, the fact that 81 cumulative IFN biological activity was recovered in Fr. 52 70 containing only 16 of total radioactivity strongly suggests that monoclonal antibody B1 may only recognize and bind to active IFN gamma. The unbound fractions Fr. 6 29 probably contained the bulk of inactivated IFN gamma, formed during the process of purification and iodination together with contaminating protein. An aliquot of an eluted fraction with peak antiviral activity was applied to NaDodSO₄ polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis SDS PAGE to determine whether any subspecies of IFN gamma was preferentially recognized by monoclonal antibody B1. An aliquot of Fr.55 containing 1.4 x 10⁴ cpm in 100 ul was applied to 12 SDS PAGE slab gels. Upon completion of electrophoresis the gel slab was cut into 1 mm slices and each slice was counted in a gamma counter. Three major peaks of radioactivity with m.w. of 45,000, 25,000 and 20,000 were observed upon completion of electrophoresis Fig. 4 . These peaks correspond to the SDS PAGE profile of human IFN gamma recognized on the basis of biological activity and radioactivity. It was concluded that the 45,000 m.w. form represents undissociated dimers and the two smaller bands represent monomeric forms differing in the amount of carbohydrate. The ratios of these three IFN gamma species in the eluted fraction were similar to the ratios found in purified IFN gamma. Pooled human, fetal calf, or mouse sera as diluent did not increase the background or decrease the signal of IFN gamma standards Figure 7 . These results indicate that the assay is specific for human IFN gamma and that there are no other substances in human serum cross reactive with the two antibodies. They also indicate that the IFN gamma levels in normal serum are below 0.1 unit ml, the sensitivity limit of the assay. Unlike the viral cytopathic assays for interferons, the present immunochemical assay detects only IFN gamma and not IFN alpha leukocyte interferon . At concentrations as high as 4000 units ml, purified human IFN alpha obtained from two commercial sources was completely negative Figure 8 . IFN beta fibroblast interferon has not been tested in this assay. In biological assays, however, the B3 antibody did not neutralize IFN beta. The B1 antibody coated immunoadsorbent beads, the ¹²⁵I B3 tracer, and the IFN gamma standard were tested for stability after they were prepared. When the kits were stored at 4 C, they gave identical sensitivity for eight weeks although the signal intensity decreased somewhat due to decay of ¹²⁵I in the B3 tracer. Figure 9 . At 37 C or 45 C, the assay kits lost significant amounts of sensitivity after one week of storage Figure 10 . When the individual components were examined for the instability at elevated temperatures, gamma interferon standard was found to be the component that was not stable Figure 11 . Reflecting that B3 antibody reacts only with biologically active and not denatured forms of IFN gamma, the IRMA also detects only the active IFN gamma. After the interferon was exposed to pH 2 or 56 C, it lost some reactivity in the IRMA Figure 12 . The immunoassays described provide rapid, highly sensitive, inexpensive and reproducible methods for detection and quantification of biologically active natural or recombinant huIFN gamma. The assays provide a substitute for existing bioassays for IFN gamma which are more time consuming and variable and much less sensitive and specific. Because of the stability of the reagents employed in the assays of this invention, they may be provided conveniently in kits. The assays may be employed by hospitals or clinical laboratories to determine levels of huIFN gamma in serum, plasma or other biological fluids of patients. The assays may also be used to monitor the ability of a patient s lymphocytes to produce IFN gamma after appropriate stimulation outside the body. In addition, the assays may be used to monitor the production of biologically active huIFN gamma by cultured mammalian cells or by genetically engineered microorganisms. Because recently accumulated evidence suggests strongly that IFN gamma is identical to macrophage activation factor, the assays of the invention also provide means for detecting and quantifying MAF activity, when this aspect of the activity of IFN gamma is of concern.