# Integrated circuit gate array chip.

## Abstract
Integrated circuit gate array chip containing inter connected logic circuit means and memory array circuit means, said memory array circuit means comprises word read circuit means having at least one word read line, word write circuit means having at least one word write line, data In circuit means having at least one data In bit line, and data Out circuit means having at least one data Out bit line. The at least one memory cell circuit comprises first, second, third, fourth and fifth transistors T1A, T1B, T1C, T2, T3 . The emitters of said first and second transistors T1A, T1B are connected in common to said data In bit line. The emitter of said third transistor T1C is connected to said word write line. The collector of said fifth transistor T3 is connected to said data Out bit line and the emitter of said fourth transistor T2 is connected to a second source of potential. A first resistor R1 is connected between the base of said first transistor T1A and said word write line. A second resistor R2 is connected between a common connection of the collector of said first transistor T1A , the collector of said second transistor T1B , the collector of said third transistor T1C , and the base of said fourth transistor T2 and a first source of potential V . A third resistor R3 is connected between a common connection of the base of said second transistor T1B , the base of said third transistor T1C , the collector of said fourth transistor T2 and the emitter of said fifth transistor T3 and said first source of potential. A fourth resistor R4 is connected between the base of said fifth transistor T3 and said word read line.