# IMMUNOLOGICAL ASSAY METHOD

## Claims
Verfahren zur immunologischen Bestimmung, bei dem man ein an feste Teilchen gebundenes Antigen oder einen an feste Teilchen gebundenen Antikörper in einem Meßgefäß jeweils mit einem Antikörper oder Antigen, welche in der zu untersuchenden Probe vorhanden sind, und mit jeweils einem mit einer fluoreszierenden Substanz markierten Antikörper oder einem entsprechend markierten Antigen reagieren läßt, wonach die an den festen Teilchen anhaftende Markierungssubstanz mit einer geeigneten Strahlung erregt wird und die emittierte Fluoreszenz oder Phosphoreszenzstrahlung gemessen wird,

## Description
The present invention is concerned with a fluorometric or phosphorometric immunoassay method in which an antibody or antigen marked with a fluorescent or phosphorescent tracer is attached onto small pearls of a solid substance. In solid phase fluorometric immunoassays Solid Phase Fluoroimmunoassay the antigen or antibody is often attached onto small pearls made of polystyrene or polyacrylic. In this way, it is possible to make use of a larger surface, to which the antibody or antigen also adheres more readily. The antigen or antibody attached to the solid phase is allowed to react with the antibody or antigen, respectively, present in the sample to be studied and with the antibody or antigen, respectively, marked with a fluorescent molecule. The more antibody or antigen there is in the sample, the less of the marked material adheres to the solid phase. When the antibody or antigen remaining in the liquid phase is separated and the quantity of the marked material adhering to the solid phase is measured by means of a fluorometer, the concentration of the antibody or antigen in the sample is determined. In the prior art methods, the extra marked antibody or antigen must be washed off before the fluorometric measurement. In certain radiological immunoassay methods RIA , pearls containing a magnetic substance are used which are kept in their position by means of a magnetic field during the removal of liquid or washing. U.S. Patent Specification 4438068 column 6, lines 8 to 14 also proposes a method in which magnetic particles are used as the solid phase. After the competitive reaction the particles are sedimented by means of a magnet, and the radiation of the labelled particles left in the supernatant is measured through the walls of the test tube. In the proposed assay the amount of the bound label is measured indirectly from the reaction mixture after sedimenting the smaller portion. Therefore the precision of the assay is not good. The measurement of the liquid phase is more difficult, too e.g. there may be substances which prevent the measurement or cause error in the measurement. In the solid phase fluoroimmunoassay method in accordance with the present invention, magnetic pearls are used as the solid phase. After the reaction, the magnetic pearls are pulled against the wall of the reaction vessel and the fluorescence or phosphorescence radiation is measured through the wall. The object of the present invention is to provide a fluorometric solid phase immunoassay method in which the extra tracer does not have to be removed from the measurement vessel containing the pearls before the fluorometric measurement. In the method in accordance with the present invention, emptying of the measurement vessel and washing of the pearls can be omitted. Thus, all the transfers of liquid related to the assay are additions of liquid. This speeds up the assay and makes its automation decisively easier. The precision of the assay is, however, good, and the liquid phase will not harm the measurement. In the method in accordance with the present invention, a colouring agent is added that absorbs strongly at the wavelength of the excitation or emission wavelength. Thus any effect of background radiation from the liquid phase is eliminated. The method in accordance with the invention is accomplished, for example, as follows Antigen of the antibody to be studied is attached to plastic pearls of a size of about 0.2 to 10 µm, which said pearls contain a magnetic substance. The plastic is, e.g., polystyrene or polyacrylic, and the magnetic substance, e.g., iron, cobalt or nickel. The pearls are put into a transparent measurement vessel, e.g. a test tube, to which the sample containing the antibody to be studied as well as an antigen marked with a fluorescent molecule are added. Upon completion of the reaction, the quantity of the marked antibody adhering to the antigen on the solid phase is measured in a fluorometer, in which both the excitation radiation is passed into the sample and the fluorescent radiation is collected to the detector through the bottom of the measurement vessel. Moreover, the fluorometer is provided with means for generating a magnetic field by means of which the pearls are pulled against the bottom of the measurement vessel for the time of the measurement. Moreover, before the measurement, a colouring agent is added to the sample, either in particle form or in dissolved form. This colouring agent absorbs intensively at the wavelength of the excitation radiation or of the emission radiation. In this way, the quantity of the tracer adhering to the surface of the pearls can be measured accurately without interference by the excess tracer remaining in the liquid phase or by the background radiation with the measurement. The colouring agent is appropriately black, e.g. soot. The colouring agent should, of course, be chosen so that it does not interfere with the reaction of the antigen and antibody or that it does not prevent fluorescence of the tracer. Of course, the method may also be applied to a method in which phosphorescence is utilized.