# CARBAPENEMS HAVING A 2 QUATERNARY PYRIDINE ALTYLTHIO OR PYRIDINE ALKENYLTHIO SUBSTITUENT, COMPOSITIONS CONTAINING THE SAME AND COMBINATIONS WITH DHP INHIBITORS

## Claims
Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragsstaaten BE, CH, DE, FR, GB, IT, LI, LU, NL, SE

## Description
The present invention is concerned with improved carbapenem antibiotics characterized by having a quaternary pyridinealkylthio or pyridinealkenylthio substituent in the 2 position. Thienamycin is a known carbapenem, broad spectrum antibiotic of the formula Other derivatives of A are also known. For example, FR A 2524890 discloses derivation of A in which the nitrogen of the amino group is part of a quaternized heteroarylium group. The present quaternary pyridine alkyl or alkenyl thio substituted carbapenems have an antibiotic spectrum equal to or better than A. The present carbapenems also are more resistant than A to degradation by the dehydropeptidase enzyme DHP I. Carbapenems having the formula where is a quaternary pyridine group and their use as antibiotics. An embodiment of the present invention is a compound having the formula wherein the pyridinium group is required to be substituted by Preferably the pyridinium group is substituted by COOH, SO₃H, C₁ ₆alkylene COOH, or C₁ ₆alkylene SO₃H. As used herein, the term heteroatom means nitrogen, oxygen, or sulfur, independently selected where more than one heteroatom is involved. A preferred group of compounds of Formula I are those where L is C₁ C₆ branched or linear alkylene. Examples of preferred L groups are CH₂ , CH CH₃ , CH CH₂CH₃ , CH₂ CH₂ , CH CH₃ CH₂ CH CH₂CH₃ CH₂ , C CH₃ ₂ CH₂ , CH₂ ₃ , CH CH₃ CH₂ ₂ , CH₂ CH CH₃ , CH₂ C CH₃ ₂ CH₂ , or CH₂ ₄ . Especially preferred compounds of Formula 1 are those where L is CH₂ , CH₂CH₂ or CH CH₃ CH₂. Of course it is understood that where any substituent group has an asymmetric center e.g. then all stereoisomers are included as mixtures or as separate isomers. Of particular interest and the most preferred group are compounds of the present invention with the acidic function as defined above and the Y substituent in the 3 position being COO Representative examples of preferred pyridinium groups are those having the formulae The following compounds are preferred and wherein A further embodiment of the present invention is a compound having the formula wherein L and Y are as previously defined and Preferred compounds have the formula wherein L is CH₂CH₂ , Y is CO₂Na and is The compounds of Formula I include inner Zwitterion salts when Y is COO or, when Y is other than COO R Again, the compounds of Formula I include the stereoisomers as mixtures and as separate isomers. Compounds having the 5R,6S,8R stereochemistry shown below are preferred When L contains a chiral center, the side chain chirality leads to diastereomeric products. The products can be separated by conventional methods, used as mixtures or synthesized stereospecifically from optically active mercaptans. The compounds of the present invention I are valuable antibiotics active against various Gram positive and Gram negative bacteria and accordingly find utility in human and veterinary medicine. Representative pathogens which are sensitive to antibiotics I include The products of this invention may be used in any of a variety of pharmaceutical preparations. They may be employed in capsule, powder form, in liquid solution, or in suspension. They may be administered by a variety of means those of principal interest include topically or parenterally by injection intravenously or intramuscularly . Compositions for injection, a preferred route of delivery, may be prepared in unit dosage form in ampules, or in multidose containers. The compositions may take such forms as suspensions, solutions, or emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles, and may contain formulatory agents. Alternatively, the active ingredient may be in powder form for reconstitution, at the time of delivery, with a suitable vehicle, such as sterile water. Topical applications may be formulated in hydrophobic or hydrophilic bases as ointments, creams, lotions, paints, or powders. The dosage to be administered depends to a large extent upon the condition and size of the subject being treated as well as the route and frequency of administration the parenteral route by injection being preferred for generalized infections. Such matters, however, are left to the routine discretion of the therapist according to principles of treatment well known in the antibiotic art. In general, a daily dosage consists of from about 5 to about 600 mg of active ingredient per kg. of body weight of the subject in one or more treatments per day. A preferred daily dosage for adult humans lies in the range of from about 10 to 240 mg. of active ingredient per kg. of body weight. Another factor influencing the precise dosage regimen, apart from the nature of the infection and peculiar identity of the individual being treated, is the molecular weight of the chosen species of this invention I . The compositions for human delivery per unit dosage, whether liquid or solid, may contain from 0.1 to 99 of active material, the preferred range being from about 10 60 . The composition will generally contain from about 15 mg. to about 1500 mg. of the active ingredient however, in general, it is preferable to employ a dosage amount in the range of from about 250 mg to 1000 mg. In parenteral administration, the unit dosage is usually the pure compound I in sterile water solution or in the form of a soluble powder intended for solution. The preferred method of administration of the formula I antibiotic is parenteral by i.v. infusion, i.v. bolus. or i.m. injection. For adults, 5 50 mg of Formula I antibiotic per kg of body weight given 2, 3, or 4 times per day is preferred. Preferred dosage is 250 mg to 1000 mg of the Formula I antibiotic given two b.i.d. three t.i.d. or four q.i.d. times per day. More specifically, for mild infections, and particularly urinary tract infections, a dose of 250 mg t.i.d. or q.i.d. is recommended. For moderate infections against highly susceptible gram positive and gram negative organisms, a dose of 500 mg t.i.d. or q.i.d. is recommended. For severe, life threatening infections against organisms at the upper limits of sensitivity to the antibiotic, a dose of 1000 t.i.d. or q.i.d. is recommended. For children, a dose of 5 25 mg kg of body weight given 2, 3, or 4 times per day is preferred a dose of 10 mg kg t.i.d. or q.i.d. is usually recommended. Antibiotic compounds of Formula I are of the broad class known as carbapenems or 1 carbadethiapenems. Certain of these carbapenems are susceptible to attack by a renal enzyme known as dehydropeptidase DHP . This attack or degradation may reduce the efficacy of the carbapenem antibiotic. Inhibitors of DHP and their use with carbapenem antibiotics are disclosed in the prior art see published European Patent Applications No. 79102616.4 filed July 24, 1979 patent no. 10573 79102615.6, filed July 24, 1979 application no. 15573 and No. 82107174.3. filed August 9, 1980 application no. 72014 . The present I compounds may, where DHP inhibition is desired or necessary, be combined or used with the appropriate DHP inhibitor as described in the aforesaid published applications. Thus, to the extent that the cited European patent applications 1. define the procedure for determining DHP susceptibility of the present carbapenems and 2. disclose suitable inhibitors and combination compositions they are incorporated herein by reference. A preferred weight ratio of I compound DHP inhibitor in the combination compositions is about 1 1. A preferred DHP inhibitor is 7 L 2 amino 2 carboxyethylthio 2 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxamide 2 heptenoic acid or a useful salt thereof. These combination compositions and pharmaceutical compositions for antibiotic use comprising the combination compositions and, optionally, a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier are further embodiments of the present invention. The compounds of Formula I may be prepared by any convenient process. One such process is illustrated by the following reaction equations where R is other than or H and is a readily removable blocking group e.g. p NO₂benzyl or allyl. X is a leaving group such as OP O OØ ₂, OSO₂CF₃, S O R where R is CH₃, CH₂CH₃, or CH₂CH₂NHC O CH₃ and Z The process conditions are generally those available in the prior art. Thus, the side chain addition reaction is carried out in a solvent such as acetonitrile, dimethylformamide, dimethylacetamide, or N ethylpyrrolidinone in the presence of a base such as N,N diisopropylethylamine, triethylamine, or 4 dimethylaminopyridine at a temperature of from 40 C to 25 C for a period of 5 minutes to 10 hours. The deblocking reaction wherein R is p nitrobenzyl is usually conducted in an aqueous system containing cosolvents such as tetrahydrofuran, ethanol, n butanol, 2 amyl alcohol, or ethyl acetate and a pH 6.8 7.0 aqueous buffer. Suitable buffers include phosphate buffers and buffers derived from non nucleophilic amines such as N methylmorpholine or morpholinopropane sulfonic acid. The reaction is conducted at 0 C to 40 C for 0.5 to 5 hours under 1 100 atmospheres of hydrogen in the presence of a catalyst such as 10 palladium on carbon or 20 palladium hydroxide on carbon. The final products are purified by ion exchange chromatography and or reverse phase chromatography. When a pharmaceutically acceptable ester of the final product is desired, the deblocking step is omitted and the appropriate R group is incorporated into the starting material. A second process for preparing Formula I compounds is illustrated by the following reaction equations Again, the process conditions are those available in the prior art. A third process for preparing Formula I compounds is illustrated by the following equations Again, the process conditions are those available in the prior art. Following are examples illustrating the preparation of compounds of Formula I. Temperatures are in C unless otherwise specified. A solution of p nitrobenzyl 5R,6S 2 diphenylphosphono oxy 6 1 R hydroxyethyl carbapen 2 em 3 carboxylate 175 mg, 0.30 mmol and 1 2 mercaptoethyl 3 p nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl pyridinium nitrate 120 mg, 0.32 mmol in anhydrous acetonitrile 3.0 ml was cooled in an ice bath under a nitrogen atmosphere and treated with N,N diisopropylethylamine 0.11 ml, 0.63 mmol . The resulting solution was left at ice bath temperature overnight, then diluted with diethylether 30 ml and passed through a celite pad. The ether insoluble oil and the residue left on the celite pad were dissolved in a mixture of n butanol 19 ml , ethylacetate 9 ml , water 19 ml , and 0.5M pH 6.8 N methyl morpholine hydrochloric acid buffer 9 ml , treated with 20 palladium hydroxide on carbon 105 mg , and hydrogenated on a Parr shaker at 2.76 bar 40 psi for 1 hour. The mixture was centrifuged to remove the catalyst and the supernatant was washed with methylene chloride 2 X 25 ml . The aqeuous phase was concentrated under vacuum and added to a column of Dowex 50W X4 resin sodium form, 0.037 0.074 mm 200 400 mesh , 1.5 X 33 cm which was eluted with deionized water in a cold room. The product containing fractions were located by UV, combined, and concentrated under vacuum to ca. 2.5 ml. The solution was applied to four Analtech 0.5 mm X 20 X 20 cm RPS F plates which were developed with water in a cold room. The major UV visible band was removed and eluted with 4 1 acetonitrile water. The extracts were washed with hexane, concentrated under vacuum, and lyophilized to provide the title compound 60.5 mg as an amorphous, yellow solid. IR Nujol νmax 3350, 1750, 1645, 1605, 1580 cm ¹ UV H₂O λmax 296 nm ε 6,970 H₂O NH₂OH extinguished λmax 297 nm ε 6,250 NMR D₂O δ 1.27 d. J 6.4 Hz, C The following examples illustrate preparation of useful intermediates for the preparation of Formula I compounds. Silver nitrate 4.14 g, 24.4 mmol was added to a solution of nicotinic acid 3.00 g, 24.4 mmol in water 200 ml to give a white precipitate. The mixture was stirred and treated dropwise with ethylene sulfide 1.45 ml, 24.4 mmol . The resulting yellow mixture was stirred at room temperature for 65 hours, then filtered to remove the solid portion which was washed with water 15 ml , ethanol 20 ml and diethyl ether, and dried under vacuum to provide the intermediate silver mercaptide 4.60 g . A portion 2.14 g of the silver salt was suspended in water 25 ml and the mixture was stirred rapidly with ice bath cooling while hydrogen sulfide was bubbled in over 5 minutes. After stirring an additional 10 minutes at 0 , the black mixture was filtered through a celite pad to remove the silver sulfide. The colorless filtrate was concentrated under vacuum to ca. 9 ml and added to a column of Dowex 50W X4 resin hydrogen form which was eluted with water, 1N hydrochloric acid, and 6N hydrochloric acid in a cold room. The product containing fractions were located in the 6N HCl eluant by UV, combined, and evaporated under vacuum to an oil containing crystals. This material was triturated with acetone to provide the title compound 153 mg as a white solid. NMR D₂C δ 3.04 t, J 6.4 Hz, SCH₂ , 4.72 t, J 6.4 Hz, NCH₂ , 8.88 m, ArH , 8.91 m, 2ArH , 9.28 s, ArH . A solution of silver nitrate 1.39 g, 8.19 mmol in acetonitcile 10 ml was added to a solution of p nitrobenzyl nicotinate 2.00 g, 8.19 mmol in acetonitrile 50 ml . A tan precipitate formed. The mixture was stirred at room temperature and treated with ethylene sulfide 0.49 ml, 8.19 mmol . After 1.5 hours, the mixture was filtered to remove the precipitate which dried under vacuum to an off white solid. This material was suspended in ethanol 75 ml , treated with hydrogen sulfide over 5 minutes, and stirred an additional 5 minutes at room temperature. The mixture was centrifuged and filtered to remove the silver sulfide. The filtrate, on standing overnight at room temperature, deposited the title compound 0.30 g as fine white needles. NMR DMSO d₆ δ 2.72 t, J 7 Hz, SH , 3.15 q, J 7 Hz, SCH₂ , 4.90 t, J 7 Hz, NCH₂ , 5.66 s, CH₂Ar , 7.87 d, J 8 Hz, 2 ArH , 8.33 d, J 8 Hz, ArH , 8.38 m, ArH , 9.14 d, J 8 Hz, ArH , 9.31 d, J 6 Hz, ArH , 9.70 s, ArH . A mixture of 3 pyridylacetic acid 1.00 g, 7.3 mmol , 3 pyridylacetic acid hydrochloride 0.63 g, 3.65 mmol , ethylene sulfide 0.44 ml, 7.4 mmol and acetonitrile 14 ml was heated at reflux overnight. After cooling to room temperature, the lower, oily phase of the biphasic reaction mixture was separated and lyophilized from water 10 ml to give the title compound 0.44 g as an oil. NMR D₂O δ 3.18 m, SCH₂ , 3.96 s, CH₂CO₂ , 4.80 m, NCH₂ , 8.08 m, ArH , 8.54 m, ArH , 8.84 m, 2 ArH . A solution of 4 mercaptomethylpyridine 2.20 g, 17.6 mmol in acetonitrile 8.0 ml was added to a stirred solution of 40 peracetic acid acetic acid 25 ml at ice bath temperature. After addition the solution was removed from the ice bath and stirred at room tenperature overnight. The solution was concentrated under vacuum to a white solid which was dissolved in water 1.5 ml and adjusted to pH 9 with 2.5N aqueous sodium hydroxide. The resulting white suspension was filtered and the filtrate evaporated under vacuum to afford the title compound as a white solid 2.32 g . NMR D₂O δ 4.24 s, CH₂ , 7.50 d, J 5.4 Hz, ArH , 8.53 d, J 5.4 Hz, ArH . A solution of silver nitrate 1.31 g, 7.68 mmol in water 4 ml was added to a stirred solution of sodium 4 pyridylmethylsulfonate 1.50 g, 7.68 mmol in water 15 ml . The resulting hazy solution was treated with ethylene sulfide 0.51 ml, 8.58 mmol added dropwise over 2 minutes. The resulting gummy mixture was let stand at room temperature 30 minutes and the supernatant decanted. The residue was mixed with water 10 ml and vigorously bubbled with hydrogen sulfide for 10 minutes. The mixture was vigorously stirred an additional 1 hour and the silver sulfide precipitate removed by centrifugation. The supernatant was concentrated under vacuum to ca. 5 ml and charged onto a column of Dowex 50W X4 hydrogen form, 0.037 0.074 mm 200 400 mesh , 1.5 x 33 cm . The column was eluted with water at 6.0 ml fractions 2.0 minutes. Fractions 19 to 27 combined and evaporated under vacuum to an off white solid. The solid was mixed with a few mls of methanol and filtered to afford the title compound as an off white solid 303 mg . NMR D₂O δ 3.16 t, J 6.4 Hz, SCH₂ , 4.52 s, CH₂SO 3 , 4.79 t, J 6.4 Hz, NCH₂ , 8.12 d, J 6.2 Hz, ArH , 8.86 d, J 6.2 Hz, ArH . A solution of p nitrobenzyl 5R,6S 2 diphenylphosphono oxy 6 IR hydroxyethyl carbapen 2 em 3 carpoxylate 300 mg, 0.517 mmol and 1 2 mercaptoethyl 4 pyridinio methylsulfonate 121mg, 0.517mmol in tetrahydrofuran 2.0ml and water 0.65ml was treated at ice bath temperature with N,N diisopropylethylamine 0.090ml, 0.517mmol . After stirring 10 min, the reaction solution was diluted with n butanol 10.0ml , ethyl acetate 5.0ml , water 10.0ml , and 0.5M pH 6.8 N methylmorpholine hydrochloric acid buffer 5.0 ml , mixed with 10 palladium on carbon 125 mg , and hydrogenated on a Parr shaker at 3.10 bar 45 psi for 75 min. The catalyst was removed by filtration through a prewashed celite pad, and the filtrate washed with methylene chloride. The aqueous phase was concentrated under vacuum to ca. 7.5 ml and charged onto a column of Dowex 50W X4 sodium form, 0.037 0.074 mm 200 400 mesh , 1.5 x 33 cm . The column was eluted with water in the cold room 4 at 6.0 ml fractions 2.0 min. Fractions 4 to 8 were combined and concentrated under vacuum to ca. 8ml and lyophilized to powder. This material was chromatographed on a 5 1.0mm 20x20cm Analtech RPS F plate using water as a developing solvent in a cold room 4 . The major uv visible band on each plate at Rf 0.3 0.5 was removed and eluted with 4 1 acetonitrile water. The eluant was washed with hexane, concentrated under vacuum to ca. 20 ml, filtered through an Acrodisc Gelman, 0.2 micron CR and lyophilized to afford the title compound 100.3mg as an amorphous white powder. A solution of silver nitrate 1.84 g, 10.6 mmol in water 5 ml was added to a stirred aqueous solution 20 ml of 4 pyridine ethane sulfonic acid 2.00 g, 10.6 mmol which had been adjusted to pH 7 by the addition of aqueous 2.5N sodium hydroxide 3.0 ml . The solution was cooled in an ice water bath and ethylene sulfide 0.71 ml, 11.8 mmol added. The resulting mixture was let stand 45 minutes at ice bath temperature and the upper clear phase decanted. The gummy solid was mixed with water 20 ml and vigorously bubbled with hydrogen sulfide for 15 minutes. After stirring an additional 20 minutes, the mixture was filtered through a celite pad to remove silver sulfide and the filtrate was evaporated under vacuum to provide crude title compound as a white semi solid 1.00 g . A solution of p nitrobenzyl 5R,6S 2 diphenylphosphono oxy 6 1R hydroxyethyl carbapen 2 em 3 carboxylate 200 mg, 0.344 mmol and 1 2 mercaptoethyl 4 pyridinio 2 ethylsulfonate 89 mg, 0.362 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 1.0 ml and water 0.3 ml was treated at room temperature with N,N diisopropylethylamine 0.063 ml, 0.362 mmol . After stirring 10 minutes, the reaction solution was diluted with n butanol 6.8 ml , ethyl acetate 3.4 ml , water 6.8 ml , and 0.5M pH 6.8 N methylmorpholine hydrochloric acid buffer 3.4 ml , mixed with 20 palladium hydroxide on carbon 80 mg , and hydrogenated on a Parr shaker at 3.03 bar 44 psi for 75 minutes. The catalyst was removed by filtration through an Acrodisc Gelman, 0.45 micron CR , and the filtrate washed with methylene chloride. The aqueous phase was concentrated under vacuum to ca. 8.5 ml and charged onto a column of Dowex 50W X4 sodium form, 0.037 0.074 mm 200 400 mesh , 1.5 x 35 cm . The column was eluted with water in the cold room 4 at 4.0 ml fractions 1.5 minutes. Fractions 6 to 13 were combined and concentrated under vacuum to ca. 9 ml and lyophilized to powder. This material was chromatographed on three 1.0 mm 20 x 20 cm Analtech RPS F plates using 2 ethanol water as a developing solvent in a cold room 4 . The major UV visible band on each plate at Rf 0.4 0.6 was removed and eluted with 4 1 acetonitrile water. The eluant was washed with hexane, concentrated under vacuum to ca. 7 ml, filtered through an Acrodisc Gelman, 0.45 micron CR and lyophilized to afford the title compound 45 mg as an amorphous white powder. Using procedures as described in Examples 1 6 the following formula I compounds are prepared