# IMMUNOLOGICAL DETERMINATION OF HUMAN PLASMIN ALPHA2 PLASMIN INHIBITOR

## Claims
Verfahren zur immunologischen Bestimmung eines menschlichen Plasmin α₂ Plasmininhibitorkomplexes in einer Testprobe unter Verwendung eines an einen unlöslichen festen Träger fixierten ersten Antikörpers und eines markierten zweiten Antikörpers, dadurch

## Description
This invention relates to the immunological determination of a human plasmin α₂ plasmin inhibitor complex or a human plasmin α₂ antiplasmin complex in an assay sample. More specifically, it relates to a method of quantitatively determining a human plasmin α₂ plasmin inhibitor complex in an assay sample such as a serum sample by the sandwich technique using a monoclonal antibody specific to both a human α₂ plasmin inhibitor and a human plasmin α₂ plasmin inhibitor and an antibody specific to human plasmin, and a reagent system used therefor. It is known that the human α₂ plasmin inhibitor to be abbreviated hereinafter as human α₂ PI is a single chain glycoprotein having a carbohydrate content of 11.7 and a molecular weight of about 67,000 which was first isolated in pure form from human plasma by Aoki and Moroi and acts as a strong inhibitor capable of instantaneously inhibiting the esterase activity of plasmin, a fibrinolytic enzyme see Moroi Aoki The Journal of Biological Chemistry, Human α₂ PI has three functions. Firstly, it has a site of inhibiting the fibrinolytic activity of plasmin in the present specification, this site is referred to as the reactive site see B. Wiman D. Collen The Journal of Biological Chemistry, Human α₂ PI almost instantaneously inhibits the activity of plasmin, and combines with plasmin at a ratio of 1 1 to form a complex see B. Wiman D. Collen The Journal of Biological Chemistry, In the blood of patients in which plasminogen is in the activated state, such as patients with disseminated intravascular coagulation DIC or patients under thrombolytic therapy with urokinase, a part of the plasmin formed by the activation of plasminogen reacts with α₂ PI to form a complex. The determination of a plasmin α₂ PI complex in the plasma is considered to be effective for monitoring the thrombolytic therapy or for diagnosing DIC see, for example, N. A. Booth B. Bennett British Journal of Haematology, If, therefore, the amount of a plasmin α₂ PI complex in the blood can be accurately and easily measured, it will be very useful for preventing and diagnosing various diseases. Known techniques of measuring a plasmin α₂ PI complex include a method involving the use of second dimensional crossed immunoelectrophoresis see, for example, N. A. Booth Bennett, British Journal of Haematology, However, the former method has the defect of low sensitivity and quantitativeness. The latter method has a relatively high sensitivity, but has the defect that an antiserum having a certain activity on human α₂ PI is difficult to obtain stably. The present inventors considered a monoclonal antibody as a candidate for an antiserum having a fixed activity on α₂ PI, and worked extensively on the creation of monoclonal antibodies specific to α₂ PI, and a method of stably producing such monoclonal antibodies. Consequently, the inventors have found some monoclonal antibodies which specifically combine with α₂ PI, and succeeded in creating hybridoma cells which stably produce such monoclonal antibodies. It has been found that the use of monoclonal antibodies so produced enables a human plasmin α₂ PI complex in an assay sample to be determined with a very high sensitivity and good reproducibility by the sandwich method. Thus, according to this invention, there is provided a method for immunologically determining a human plasmin α₂ plasmin inhibitor complex in an assay sample by using a primary antibody fixed to an insoluble solid carrier and a labelled secondary antibody, wherein the secondary antibodies is a monoclonal antibody or its fragment specific to both a human α₂ plasmin inhibitor and a human plasmin α₂ plasmin inhibitor complex, and the primary antibody is a polyclonal antibody specific to human plasmin. Generally, a method of determining the presence or absence of an antigen or measuring its amount by using antibodies which combine with two different sites of the antigen is called the sandwich method , and is described, for example, in Wide s Radioimmunoassay Methods, 199 206 1970 . The immunological assay method of this ivnention uses two antibodies primary and secondary antibodies the secondary of which is a monoclonal antibody that specifically recognizes, and combine with, both human α₂ PI and a human plasmin α₂ PI complex, and the primary of which is an antibody specific to human plasmin. In the method of this invention, a fragment of the monoclonal antibody at least containing a Fab region having an antigen binding site variable region may also be used. Accordingly, it should be understood that unless otherwise stated, the term antibody used in the present specification also denotes its fragment at least containing the Fab region. Thus, the method of this invention enables a human plasmin α₂ PI complex in an assay solution, for example in a plasma sample, to be always determined highly accurately without changes in the quality of the reagent used. Since the amount of human plasmin α₂ PI complex is directly measured, the method is not at all affected by foreign materials and can determine the human plasmin α₂ PI complex accurately within short periods of time. Accordingly, the present invention provides a new method of determining human α₂ PI accurately and rapidly. In the method of this invention, one primary antibody of the two antibodies is fixed to an insoluble solid carrier, and the other secondary antibody is used in the labelled state. The monoclonal antibody is used as the labelled secondary antibody. The primary antibody may be fixed to the insoluble solid carrier by methods known Examples of the insoluble solid carrier used to fix the primary antibody include polymeric materials such as polystyrene, polyethylene, polypropylene, polyesters, polyacrylonitrile, fluorine containing resins, nitrocellulose, crosslinked dextran, polysaccharides and agarose, inorganic materials such as glass and metal, and combinations of these. The solid carrier may be in various shapes, for example, in the shape of a tray, sphere, fiber, particle, bead, disc, rod, receptacle, cell or test tube. Specific examples of the insoluble solid carrier are plastic receptacles, plastic beads, glass beads and metal particles. The secondary antibody is labelled with radioisotopes, enzymes or luminescent substances. Examples of the radioisotopes are ¹²⁵I, ¹³¹I, ¹⁴C and ³H. Examples of the enzymes are alkaline phosphatase, peroxidase, and beta D galactosidase. Examples of the luminescent substances are fluorescein isothiocyanate and tetramethyl rhodamine isothiocyanate. These are merely illustrative, and other labelling substances used in immunological assay may also be used. Combination of the labelling substances with the secondary antibody may be carried out by methods known The fixed primary antibody and the labelled secondary antibody are then brought into contact with an assay sample for determination of the human plasmin α₂ PI complex by a two step method comprising contacting the sample first with the fixed primary antibody and then with the labelled secondary antibody, or by a one step method comprising contacting the sample and the secondary antibody simultaneously with the primary antibody. The one step method, however, is advantageous over the two step method because it permits a simpler and more rapid determination of the human plasmin α₂ PI complex. In the two step method, the fixed primary antibody and the sample are contacted and reacted at a given temperature for a given period of time. During this time, the fixed primary antibody combines with the human plasmin α₂ PI complex in the sample. After washing with a suitable washing liquor, the reaction product is contacted and reacted with a solution e.g., an aqueous solution of the labelled secondary antibody at a given temperature for a given period of time. The reaction product is washed with a suitable washing liquid, and the amount of the labelling substance present on the insoluble solid carrier is measured. The amount of the human plasmin α₂ PI complex in the sample can be determined by comparing the amount of the labelling substance with a calibration curve drawn by using an assay sample containing the human plasmin α₂ PI complex in a known concentration. In the one step method, the fixed primary antibody is contacted and reacted with the assay sample and the labelled secondary antibody simultaneously, preferably with a mixture of the sample and the labelled secondary antibody at a given temperature for a given period of time. The product is then washed with a suitable washing liquid, and the amount of the labelling substance which is present on the insoluble solid carrier is measured as described above. As a result, the amount of the human plasmin α₂ PI complex in the sample can be determined. According to the methods described above, the amount of the human plasmin α₂ PI complex in the assay sample can be measured easily with good reproducibility and high accuracy. Human plasma, human serum and a supernatant from a cell culture are examples of the sample which can be assayed by the above methods. For the practice of the above method, the present invention provides a reagent system comprising the primary, polyclonal antibody fixed to the insoluble solid carrier and the labelled secondary, monoclonal antibody. A kit may be formed from this reagent system and various auxiliary agents in order to use the reagent system efficiently and easily. Examples of the auxiliary agents include dissolving agents for dissolving the solid secondary antibody, washing agents for washing the insoluble carrier, substrates for measuring the enzyme activity of enzymes which may be used as labelling substances for the secondary antibody, and reaction stoppers therefor, which are normally used in reagent kits for immunological assay. The monoclonal antibody specific to both a human α₂ PI and a human plasmin α₂ PI complex can be obtained by establishing a hybridoma cell line capable of producing the above antibody, and cultivating the hybridoma. The hybridoma capable of producing the monoclonal antibody can be produced by a technique known as the Köhler and Milstein method Köhler and Milstein, Nature, The monoclonal antibody can be obtained from the product yielded by this hybridoma. The resulting monoclonal antibody acts monospecifically on that site of the human plasmin α₂ PI complex which is not blocked with plasmin. The monoclonal antibody and a process for its production will now be described in detail. Human α₂ PI used as an antigen is isolated in pure form from a human plasma sample by the aforesaid method of Aoki and Moroi. There is no particular restriction on the animals to be immmunized, and various mammals such as mice, rats, guinea pigs, rabbits, sheep, goats, dogs and cats may be used. For the ease of handling, male Balb c mice are generally used. Mice of other strains may also be used. The immunization should be planned, and the concentration of human α₂ PI to be used in immunization should be selected, so that sufficient amounts of antigenically stimulated lymphocytes can be formed. For example, a mouse is intraperitoneally immunized several times with a small amount of human α₂ PI at certain intervals, and the antigen is further administered intravenously several times to increase the titer of the antibody. Several days after the final immunization, antibody producing cells, for example, lymphocytes, preferably spleen cells, are taken out from the immunized animals. The following description is given with regard to the use of spleen cells as the antibody producing cells, but it should be understood that other antibody producing cells isolated from immunized animals can equally be used for cell fusion. The spleen is aseptically taken out from the immunized animal, and a spleen cell suspension is prepared from it. The spleen cells are then fused with myeloma cells taken from a suitable cell line in a fusion medium in the presence of a suitable fusion promoter. The myeloma cells used for fusion may be obtained from any mammals, but generally, those originated from the same kind of animal as the immunized animal are preferred. The preferred mixing ratio between the spleen cells and the myeloma cells is generally in the range of from about 20 1 to about 2 1, preferably from 10 1 to 2 1. Usually, the use of 0.5 to 1.5 ml of the fusion medium per about 10⁸ spleen cells is suitable. Suitable fusion media are, for example, physiological saline, buffered saline, a serum free medium each of which contains the fusion promoter in a concentration of 30 to 70 . Many myeloma cells suitable for cell fusion are known. In Examples to be given hereinafter, P3 X63 Ag8 Ul cells to be abbreviated as P3 Ul see D. E. Yelton et al. Current Topics in Microbiology and Immunology, 81, l 1978 . They are an 8 azaguanine resistance cell line. They lack hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferase, and therefore do not survive in HAT medium containing hypoxanthine, aminopterin and thymidine . Furthermore, since this cell line is of a non secreting type which does not secrete an antibody itself, it is suitable for the production of the hybridoma. Other myeloma cells may also be used. Examples include P3 NSl l Ag4 l, NSl Ag4 l, P3 X63 Ag8, MPCH 45, 6. TGl.7 , SP2 0 Agl4, FO, X 63 Ag8 6.5.3, 210.RCY3.Agl.2.3, Sl94 5XXO.BU.l, SKO 007, and GMl5006TG Al2. Polyethylene glycol having an average molecular weight of 1,000 to 4,000, for example, may be advantageously used as the fusion promoter. There can also be used other fusion promoters known in the art, such as Sendai virus. In the following Examples, polyethylene glycol having an average molecular weight of 1,540 was used. A mixture of the fused cells, non fused spleen cells and non fused myeloma cells is diluted in a separate receptacle such as a microtiter plate with a selective medium in which the non fused myeloma cells cannot survive, and cultivated for a sufficient period of time to allow the non fused cells to die about 1 week . The culture medium may be one which is resistant to a drug such as 8 azaguanine and in which the non fused myeloma cells cannot survive, for example the aforesaid HAT medium. In the selective medium, the non fused myeloma cells die away. Since the non fused spleen cells are non tumoral, they die after a certain period of time about 1 week . On the other hand, the fused cells can survive in the selective medium because they have both the tumor bearing nature of the parent myeloma cells and the nature of the parent spleen cells. After the hybridoma cells are detected as stated above, the supernatant of the culture fluid is collected, and screened for an antibody to human α₂ PI by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay see, for example, A. H. W. M. Schuurs and B. K. van Weemen Clin. Chim. Acta, The hybridoma capable of producing an antibody specific to human α₂ PI can be cloned by a suitable method such as a limiting dilution method in two different ways. In one way, the hybridoma is cultivated in a suitable medium for a given period of time, and the monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma can be obtained from the supernatant of the culture fluid. In the other, the hybridoma can be intraperitoneally injected into a syngenic mouse. After a certain period of time, the monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma can be obtained from the blood and ascites of the host animal. Purified monoclonal antibodies to human α₂ PI were screened for an antibody specific to a human plasmin a₂ PI complex by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay see, for example, A. H. W. M. Schuurs and B. K. van Weemen Clin. Chim. Acta, Among the monoclonal antibodies so produced, a monoclonal antibody specific to a fragment of human α₂ PI molecule which has a length extending about 12,000 in molecular weight from the carboxylic terminal of the molecule is preferred from the standpoint of the detecting sensitivity of the human plasmin α₂ PI complex and reproducibility. Especially preferred is a monoclonal antibody having the function of specifically blocking the reactive site of human α₂ PI, i.e. that site of human α₂ PI which inhibits the fibrinolytic activity of plasmin, and suppressing the inherent action of human α₂ PI to inhibit the fibrinolytic activity of plasmin. In the present specification, the expression blocks the reactive site means the addition or combination of the monoclonal antibody to or with the reactive site of human α₂ PI in such a way that the monoclonal antibody recognizes the reactive site itself or any of the epitopes of human α₂ PI thereby to cause the reactive site to lose activity. Investigations of the present inventors have led to the belief that the monoclonal antibody having the function of specifically blocking the reactive site of human α₂ PI recognizes, and combines with, a site about 8000 in molecular weight away from the carboxylic terminal of the human α₂ PI molecule. Such a monoclonal antibody can be created by performing the following step E before the above step F . E The supernatant of the culture fluid obtained by cultivating the hybridoma producing an antibody to human α₂ PI is concentrated and incubated with the human α₂ PI for a fixed period of time. Plasmin is added to the mixture, and the mixture is placed on a fibrin plate. The area of the fibrin dissolved is measured. In this way, a hybridoma capable of producing an antibody having activity on human α₂ PI is selected. It is believed that the monoclonal antibody produced by the above method, as other antibodies do, has in its variable region an antigen binding site capable of performing the aforesaid function. The resulting monoclonal antibody is cleaved by the Porter s method see R. R. Porter, Biochemical Journal, The Fab containing fragment of the monoclonal antibody has been examined on microtiter plates for the ability to combine with human α₂ PI and the human plasmin α₂ PI complex. It has consequently been ascertained that only the Fab containing fragment of the monoclonal antibody has the same antibody function as the monoclonal antibody. In the present invention, therefore, the Fab containing fragment can be used instead of the monoclonal antibody itself. Such a fragment includes, for example, not only a papain cleaved fragment but also other fragments containing the Fab region obtained after cleavage with trypsin, plasmin, etc. In the immunological assay in accordance with this invention, the above monoclonal antibody or its Fab containing fragment is used either as the primary or secondary antibody. Specifically, it may be used as the primary antibody by bonding it to an insoluble solid carrier, or as the secondary antibody by labelling it. Generally, it is economic and convenient to use it as the labelled secondary antibody. The antibody specific to human plasmin used in combination with the monoclonal antibody or its fragment may be monoclonal or polyclonal if it has the function of recognizing, and combining with, the human plasmin. From the standpoint of the ease of availability, the polyclonal antibody is generally used. Such an antibody specific to human plasmin is known The primary reason for using human plasminogen instead of human plasmin for immunization is that plasmin is a proteolytic enzyme and is susceptible to deactivation and is less stable than plasminogen, its precursor. When The Arg Val bond on the COOH terminal side of plasminogen is cleaved and a peptide composed of 77 to 78 residues on the NH₂ terminal side is liberated, plasminogen becomes double stranded plasmin bonded by an S S linkage. Accordingly, an anti human plasminogen antibody obtained by immunizing human plasminogen can combine with both human plasminogen and plasmin. According to the method and the reagent system of this invention, the amount of a human plasmin α₂ PI complex in an assay sample containing the complex, for example, a human plasma sample, can be determined accurately and easily with good reproducibility and high sensitivity. The present inventors previously found that the monoclonal antibody or its fragment having the function of specifically blocking the reactive site of human α₂ PI which inhibits the fibrinolytic activity of plasmin, and of suppressing the fibrinolytic activity inhibiting function of α₂ PI is useful for the immunological determination of not only the human plasmin α₂ PI complex but also human α₂ PI itself in an assay sample by the sandwich method. Consequently, the inventors disclosed and claimed the method and reagent system for immunologically determining a human α₂ PI in an assay sample using the aforesaid monoclonal antibody or its fragment in the copending application EP A 0159 025. The reagent system disclosed in the copending application comprises a primary antibody fixed to an insoluble solid carrier and a labelled secondary antibody, wherein the primary and secondary antibodies are anti human α₂ PI antibodies or their fragments which specifically recognize and combine with different epitopes of the human α₂ PI, and one of them is the monoclonal antibody or its fragment mentioned above. If this reagent system is combined with the reagent system of the present invention, one test kit is provided which is very convenient for medical diagnosis for the immunological determination of both human α₂ PI and human plasmin α₂ PI complex in an assay sample. The following examples illustrate the present invention. In accordance with the method of Aoki and Moroi cited hereinabove, 7.7 mg of human α₂ PI was obtained from 2,360 ml of human plasma Male Balb c mice were immunized intraperitoneally with an emulsion of 100 micrograms of human α₂ plasmin inhibitor and complete Freund s adjuvant twice at an interval of 21 days. Seven days and 88 days later, 30 micrograms of human α₂ PI in physiological saline was additionally administered intravenously. Four days after the final immunization, the spleen cells were isolated for cell fusion. The spleen cells were taken out aseptically and passed through a stainless steel mesh to obtain a suspension of the spleen cells. The cells were transferred to RPMI 1640 medium a product of GIBCO supplemented with 0.39 g liter of L glutamine, 0.2 g liter of kanamycin sulfate and 2.0 g liter of NaHCO₃. The cells which proliferated were washed three times with RPMI 1640 and again suspended in RPMI 1640 medium. Mouse myeloma cells, P3 Ul, were cultivated in RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 0.39 g liter of L glutamine, 0.2 g liter of kanamycin sulfate, 2.0 g liter of NaHCO₃ and 10 fetal calf serum to be abbreviated as 10 FCS RPMI 1640 . At the time of cell fusion, the myeloma cells were in the log phase of cell fission. The spleen cells and the myeloma cells were suspended in a ratio of 10 1 in a serum free RPMI 1640 medium, and then centrifuged at about 200 G for 5 minutes. The supernatant was removed, and the sediment was incubated together with 1 ml of a 50 solution of polyethylene glycol having an average molecular weight of 1,540 pH 8.2 at 37 One day after cell fusion, HAT medium was added in an amount of 100 microliters per well. Thereafter, at intervals of 2 days, one half of the medium was exchanged with a fresh supply of HAT medium, and the cultivation was continued. Eight days later, the supernatant of the culture fluid of hybridoma cells was screened for antibodies to human α₂ PI by the enzyme linked immunosorbent assay. The antigen used in the screening was human α₂ PI, and the second antibody was alkali phosphatase conjugated rabbit anti mouse antibodies. 349 wells in total were found to be positive by the enzyme linked immunosorbent assay, and thus to produce antibodies specific to α₂ PI. When it was observed that the proliferation of the cells was active, HT medium was added. The medium was exchanged with HT medium four times at intervals of one day. Thereafter, the cultivation was carried out by using ordinary 10 FCS RPMI 1640 medium. The fused cells producing antibodies to human α₂ PI was screened by the following procedure for fused cells which had the action of suppressing the fibrinolysis inhibiting activity of human α₂ PI. The fused cells in each well were cultivated in 10 FCS RPMI 1640 medium until the number of the cells reached about 2 x 10⁷. The cells were then centrifuged at about 200 G for 5 minutes. The supernatant was removed, and the cells were washd with 10 ml of a serum free RPMI 1640 medium, and further centrifuged at about 200G for 5 minutes. The supernatant was removed, and the cells were suspended in 10 ml of a mixed serum free medium to be abbreviated as MITES medium composed of RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 5.0 ml liter of 2 mercaptoethanol, 7.5 ml liter of insulin, 5.0 ml liter of transferrin, 5.0 ml liter of ethanolamine, 5.0 ml liter of sodium selenite, 0.39 g liter of L glutamine, 0.2 g liter of kanamycin sulfate, and 2.38 g liter of Hepes, Dulbecco s MEM, and Ham s F 12 2 1 1 , and cultivated for 3 days. The supernatant of the culture fluid was recovered, and concentrated to 25 times. To 25 microliters of the concentrate was added 0.4 microgram of human α₂ PI, and the mixture was incubated at 37 The results show that the fibrinolysis inhibiting activity of human α₂ PI added to the antibodies produced by lD10 fused cells was completely suppressed. The fused cells lDl0 which were found to be positive in the test for the activity of the antibodies to human α₂ PI were cloned by the following procedure. The lD10 cells were diluted so that each well of a 96 well microtiter plate contained 0.9 cell. Thymus cells of Balb c mice were added as feeder cells and distributed on the plate and cultivated in 10 FCS RPMI 1640 medium. Microscopic observation exactly showed single cell colonies formed. The supernatant of the culture fluid of the fused cells was screened by the enzyme linked immunosorbent assay for antibodies to human α₂ PI. Twenty six wells in total were found to be positive by the enzyme linked immunosorbent assay, and thus to produce monoclonal antibodies to human α₂ PI. In order to produce large amounts of monoclonal antibodies to human α₂ PI, about 10⁷ fused cells were intraperitoneally injected into Balb c mice pre treated with pristane. About one week later, the antibodies were isolated from the ascites fluid and purified by the method of Ey et al. P. L. Ey, S. J. Prowse and C. R. Jenkin, Immunochemistry, 15, 429 436 1978 . Twenty milligrams of monoclonal antibodies to human α₂ PI were obtained from 2.5 ml of the ascites fluid. The particular classes of the purified monoclonal antibodies were determined by the Ouchterlony gel diffusion test using class specific antimouse immunoglobulin antisera. The results given in Table 1 show that many of the antibodies to human α₂ PI are of the H chain γ₁ type and L chain κ type. One liter of a human plasma sample was filtered on a filter paper, and passed through a column 300 ml of Lys Sepharose to obtain 1050 ml of plasminogen depleted plasma. Plasminogen 9.3 mg was freshly added to a portion 250 ml of this plasma sample, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature. Urokinase 228,000 units in total , in seven divided portions, was added over the course of 15 hours at 4 A solution of α₂ PI and a solution of plasmin α₂ PI complex prepared so that the final concentration of SDS was 1 were each heated at 100 The nitrocellulose membrane filter was put in a solution containing 50 mM Tris HCl and 0.15 M NaCl and 3 gelatin at a pH of 7.4, and blocking was carried out. The nirrocellulose membrane filter was cut along the lanes, and the cut frgments were put in three types of anti α₂ PI monoclonal antibody lDl0Cl, 2Hl2D5 and lBl0Gll solutions antibody concentration 2 micrograms ml and reacted over night at room temperature. The nitrocellulose membrane filter fragments were washed three times with a solution of 50mM Tris HCl and 0.15M NaCl containing 0.05 Tween 20 at a pH of 7.4 and reacted at room temperature for 2 hours with a goat anti mouse IgG solution labelled with peroxidase. After washing with the aforesaid solution containing Tween 20, a substrate was added, and 2 or 3 minutes later, the reaction product was washed and the reaction was stopped. The results are shown in Figure 1. The experimental results suggest with which epitopes of the α₂ PI and plasmin α₂ PI complex protein molecules the three types of monoclonal anitbodies will combine. When plasmin forms a complex with α₂ PI, a peptide having a molecular weight of about 8000 on the C terminal side of the α₂ PI is cut, but this peptide combines with the complex with a certain kind of force and is liberated from the complex by sodium dodecylsulfate SDS see, for example, B. Wiman and D. Collen The Journal of Biological Chemistry, It is known that α₂ PI having a molecular weight of 67,000 is cleaved with leukocyte elastase to be converted to two forms having a molecular weight of 56,000 and 11,000 see M. S. Brower and P. C. Harpel The Journal of Biological Chemistry, The anti α₂ PI monoclonal antibody lDl0Cl reacted and combined with α₂ PI having a molecular weight of 67000, but its combination with the complex was not observed. The present inventors already found by the fibrin plate method and an assay using synthetic substrate S 2251 that lDl0Cl antibody recognizes, and combines with, the reactive site of α₂ PI. As a result of blotting, no combination with the complex was observed. This is presumably because SDS resulted in the separation of the peptide having a molecular weight of 8000 on the C terminal side of α₂ PI. On the other hand, the lBl0Gll antibody combined with α₂ PI having a molecular weight of 67000, and interestingly, reacted and combined with the peptide having a molecular weight of 8000 which was liberated from the complex by SDS. The 2Hl2D5 antibody combined with α₂ PI having a molecular weight of 67,000 and α₂ PI having a molecular weight of 56,000 treated with leukocyte elastase, and also with the complex. Antigen α₂ PI or plasmin α₂ PI complex, in a concentration of 10 micrograms ml, was added to a 96 well plate at a rate of 1000 microliters per well, and fixed at 4 Blocking was carried out using phosphate buffered saline PBS containing 1 BSA, and then a ¹²⁵I labelled monoclonal antibody diluted to various concentrations for example 1 10 nM was added in an amount of 100 microliters per well, and reacted with the fixed antigen at 37 The ¹²⁵I radioactivity of 100 microliter of the ¹²⁵I labelled monoclonal antibody in each of the concentrations was measured, and made the total count cpm . The count of the cut out well was defined as the count of the antibody bound to the fixed antigen. The difference between the total count of the ¹²⁵I labelled antibody and the count of the bound ¹²⁵I labelled antibody was defined as the count of the free ¹²⁵I labelled antibody. The ratio of the ¹²⁵I labelled antibody bound to the antigen and the free ¹²⁵I labelled antibody was plotted on the axis of ordinate, and the concentration nM of the ¹²⁵I labelled antibody bound to the antigen, on the axis of abscissa. The reciprocal of two times the slope of the curve obtained was defined as Kd dissociation constant. See, for example, M. E. Frankel and W. Gerhard Molecular Immunology, 1 The Kd values of the three anti α₂ PI monoclonal antibodies lDl0Cl, lBl0Gll, and 2Hl2D5 against the antigen α₂ PI and plasmin α₂ PI complex are summarized in Table 2. A rabbit anti human plasminogen antibody polyclonal diluted to a concentration of 20 micrograms ml was added to a 96 well microtiter plate at a rate of 100 microliters per well, and fixed overnight at 4 A phosphate buffered saline PBS solution containing 1 BSA was added in an amount of 150 microliters per well, and left to stand at 37 Incidentally, before using the anti plasminogen antibody sample in this measuremnt, it was charged on α₂ PI Sepharose to absorb anti α₂PI antibody contained in a trace amount in the sample. Figure 2 shows the relation between the concentration ng ml of the plasmin α₂ PI complex or α₂ PI and the change in absorbance ΔA 405 nm min. . The relation between the concentration of plasmin a₂ PI complex and the change in absorbance is nearly linear, and by using this graph as a calibration curve, the plasmin α₂ PI complex in an assay sample can be mesured. This assay system does not detect free α₂ PI.