# Aldehyde of imine oxygen scavengers for vinyl polymerizations.

## Abstract
Aldehydes and or imines of the formula R₃Q A preferred composition is a mixture of aldehydes which are the reaction product of a ethylene urea, b formaldehy de, c isobutyraldehyde, and d 2 ethylhexanal in a molar ratio of a b of 1 2 and of a to the sum of c and d of 1 2.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A composition useful as an oxygen scavenger composition for vinyl unsaturated systems, said composition comprising A aldehyde or imine of the formula R3Qn wherein n is 1 4 R3 is an organic radical having a valence of 1 4 or hydrogen Q is of the formulaEMI22.1 wherein A is O or NR4 R1, R2, and R4 are independently selected C16 alkyl or aryl radicals or mixtures thereof and B transition metal ion selected from Co , Cu , and My . 2. A composition according to claim 1 wherein R3 is a R5YCH2 wherein R5 is hydrogen or an organic radical of 1 4 valence and selected from C1 36 alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, arylalkyl, alkylaryl, and acyl Y is O or NR6 and R6 is hydrogen or a C 1 6 alkyl or aryl group orEMI22.2 EMI23.1 wherein R8 is a C1 6 alkyl or aryl, and Z is NR8R8 EMI23.2 wherein Z1 is NCH2 and Y is C2 5 alkyl. 3. A composition according to claim 1 or 2 wherein A is of the formula EMI23.3 wherein R7 is C 6 alkyl or aryl. 4. A composition according to any preceding claim wherein the aldehyde or imine is selected fromEMI24.1 wherein R1 and R2 are selected from methyl, ethyl, butyl, and mixtures thereof, and m is 4 or 7 EMI24.2 wherein Rg is methyl, ethyl, or butyl EMI25.1 EMI26.1 wherein R is methyl, a 1 1 mixture of ethyl and butyl, or a 0.82 0.09 0.09 mixture of methyl, ethyl, and butyl EMI26.2 wherein R is methyl or ethyl EMI26.3 EMI27.1 wherein m is 4 and R is methyl, ethyl, or butyl. 5. A composition according to any preceding claim further including an oxime or thiuram stabilizer. 6. The use of at least one aldehyde and or imine as defined in any preceding claim as an oxygen scavenger in the curing of compositions containing monomer, oligomer and or polymer having vinyl unsaturation. 7. A mixture comprising an aldehyde and or imine as defined in any one of claims 1 to 5 and a composition containing monomer, oligomer and or polymer containing vinyl unsaturation which composition would not readily polymerize under aerobic conditions. 8. A mixture according to claim 7 further containing transition metal ion selected from Co , Cu and or Mn 9. A mixture according to claim 7 or 8 wherein said monomer is selected from the group consisting of i. Mono, di and trifunctional acrylates and methacrylates ii. fumarates iii. maleates iv. vinyl esters v. styrenes vi. acrylamides vii. acrylonitrile viii. itaconate esters ix. alpha methylene glutarate esters x. acryloxyproprionic acid and esters, and xi. methacrylic acid or acrylic acid, and or said polymer is selected from the group consisting of i. maleate containing polyesters ii. fumarate containing polyesters iii. itaconate containing polyesters iv. alpha methylene glutarate containing polyesters v. vinyl resins vi. urethane multi meth acrylates vii. polyester multi meth acrylates . A A mixture according to any of claims 7 to 9 containing 1 to 20 parts by weight aldehyde and or imine and 99 to 80 parts by weight vinyl unsaturated monomer, oligomer and or polymer system. 11. The use of a mixture according to any one of Claims 7 to 10 in coating, impregnant, plastic, reinforced plastic, tank lining, gel coating, or polymer concrete. 12. An oxygen scavenging composition comprising a mixture of those aldehydes formed in the reaction of a ethylene urea, b formaldehyde, c isobutyraldehyde, and d 2ethylhexanal in a molar ratio of a b of 1 2 and of a to the sum of c and d of 1 2. 13. The oxygen scavenging imine which is formed in the reaction of t butyl amine and the composition of claim 12. 14. The use of the composition of any one of claims 1 to 5 as an oxygen scavenger in the aerobic polymerization of monomer, oligomer and or polymer having vinyl unsaturation.

## Description
ALDEHYDE OR IMINE OXYGEN SCAVENGERS FOR VINYL POLYMERIZATIONS This invention is concerned with oxygen scavengers useful in the polymerization of vinyl unsaturated monomers, oligomers, and polymers in the presence of oxygen. Eickoff et al, U.S. Patent 4,395,361, teach a class of oxygen activated free radical polymerization catalysts comprising cobalt II compounds and certain autoxidizable cyclic hydrocarbons and benzaldehyde. Eickoff et al also describe a method of catalyzing an oxygen initiated free radical polymerization reaction using these catalysts. No other aidehydes than benzaldehyde are disclosed. Gruber U.S. Patent 4,017,652, teaches oxygen inhibition of the photopolymerization of acrylic resins being reduced by employing a photocatalyst system containing an aromatic ketone and or aromatic aldehyde photosensitizer of a certain type which promote polymerization through bimolecular photochemical reactions, and an aromatic ketone photoinitiator. Petersen, U.S. Patent 3,551,423, teaches production of certain amides by reaction of amides with formaldehyde and an appropriate CH acid aldehyde and the use of the new amide products as textile finishes and as valuable intermediates for the production of amino aldehydes and aminocarboxylic acids, pharmaceuticals and aminoplasts.Peterson does not disclose utility of the aldehydes as oxygen scavengers, nor does he disclose the corresponding imines. Collins et al, Reactions of Us curable ResinFormulations and Neat Multi functional Acrylates IIPhotoinitiated Polymerization of Neat 1,6 hexanedioldiacrylate, Journal of Coatings Technology, Vol. 51, No. 648,January 1979, teach benzoin isobutyl ether photoinitiated polymerization of 1,6 hexanedioldiacrylate, and eliminating the inhibition by dissolved oxygen by the addition ofN,N dimethylaminobenzaldehyde and eosin Y. Imoto et al, Vinyl Polymerization. 364.Polymerization of Methyl Methacrylate Initiated withBenzaldehyde, J. Poly. Science Polymer Chemistry Edition, 17 3 85 92 1979 show an anaerobic initiation of the radical polymerization of methyl methacrylate with benzaldehyde.oxygen scavenger activity is not needed in anaerobic reactions, and so Imoto et al is not pertinent to oxygen scavenging. In recent years, certain vinyl monomer, oligomer, and polymer systems have been developed which have sufficiently high molecular weight and sufficiently low odor, volatility, and toxicity so as to be useful as non volatile reactive components of high or even 100 solids resin formulations which can be cured rapidly by free radical polymerization in the absence of oxygen, i.e. anaerobically, for example in radiation cure applications or in engineering adhesives where polymerization qccurs between two substrates to be bonded. However, when cure of these vinyl unsaturated systems is attempted in the presence of air, i.e.aerobically, serious inhibition of free radical polymerization by oxygen at the air interface occurs. It is this problem to which the present invention is addressed. The present invention is concerned with the provision of oxygen scavengers for use in compositions comprising at least one vinyl unsaturated monomer, oligomer or polymer and the provision of compositions comprising at least one vinyl unsaturated monomer or an oligomer or polymer thereof which have attractive curing characteristics in the presence of oxygen. We have now found that compositions comprising an aldehyde or imine of the formula R3Qn wherein n is 1 4 R3 is an organic radical having a valence of 1 4 or hydrogen Q is of the formulaEMI3.1 wherein A is O or NR4 R1, R2, and R4 are independently selected C16 alkyl or aryl radicals or mixtures thereof, are useful oxygen scavengers in compositions containing at least one vinyl monomer, oligomer or polymer and the invention, in one aspect, is directed to this use. For the avoidance of doubt, in this specification and claims vinyl is to be regarded as embracing all monoethylenic unsaturations, for example also vinylene and vinylidene. In another aspect, the invention comprises aldehyde and or imine as defined above and a transition metal ion selected from Co , Cu , and Mn . In another aspect the invention comprises the aldehyde or imine and a vinyl unsaturated monomer and or polymer. The invention is applicable to the various compositions which comprise at least one vinyl unsaturated monomer, oligomer, or polymer and which are designed for cure in the presence of oxygen and which are available in the field of paints and other coating compositions, gel coats, tank linings, polymer concrete, high solids baking finishes and the like. A particular field in which oxygen inhibition occurs is in thin films which contain vinyl monomers where it is usually an object to obtain tack free finishes rapidly. In some cases, the desired finish is hard, whereas in other cases, such as with roof mastics, the desired finish is flexible.Particularly important systems in which the oxygen scavengers described below are useful include unsaturated polyester, acrylic melamine, reactive coalescent, vinyl ester, UV cure, concrete sealant, polymer concrete, engineering adhesive, and the like. As mentioned before, the oxygen scavengers of the invention are selected from the group consisting of compounds of the formula R3Qn wherein n is 1 4 R3 is an organic radical having a valence of 1 4 or hydrogen Q is of the formulaEMI4.1 wherein A is O or NR4 R1, R2, and R4 are independently selected C1 6 alkyl or aryl radicals or mixtures thereof. R3 is preferably of the formula R5 Y CH 2 wherein R5 is hydrogen or an organic radical of 1 4 valence and selected from C1 36 alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, arylalkyl, alkylaryl, and acyl Y is O or NR6 and R6 is hydrogen or a C1 6 alkyl or aryl group. Some of the suitable aldehydes areEMI4.2 EMI4.3 EMI5.1 wherein R1 and R2 are selected from methyl, ethyl, butyl, and mixtures thereof, and m is 4 or 7 EMI5.2 wherein R9 is methyl, ethyl, or butyl EMI5.3 EMI6.1 wherein R is methyl, a 1 1 mixture of ethyl and butyl, or a 0.82 0.09 0.09 mixture of methyl, ethyl, and butyl EMI6.2 wherein R is methyl or ethyl EMI6.3 EMI7.1 Some of the suitable imines areEMI7.2 wherein m is 4 and R is methyl, ethyl, and butyl. R3 can also be selected from EMI8.1 and or a radical of the formulaEMI8.2 wherein R8 is a C16 alkyl or aryl, and Z is NR8R8. In the imines, A can be of the formulaEMI8.3 wherein R7 is C16 alkyl or aryl. A problem with some of the aldehydes used in the invention, even the preferred ones, is poor pot stability of the aldehyde vinyl unsaturated system mixtures, apparently due to premature oxidation of the aldehyde. This problem can be solved by using the corresponding imine of the invention which is in a sense a chemically blocked form of the aldehyde. However, ambient moisture is needed to hydrolyse the imine to the active aldehyde. An alternative to the imine approach is to use oxime or thiuram stabilizers to preserve the pot life of aldehyde vinyl unsaturated system mixtures. One suitable thiuram is tetramethyl thiuram disulfide TMTDS , which is most preferred. One suitable oxime is methyl ethyl ketone oxime. The oxygen scavengers of the invention are most useful in vinyl unsaturated systems which would not readily polymerize under aerobic conditions, and in such widely diverse applications as aqueous or solvent based coatings, impregnants, plastics, reinforced plastics, tank linings, gel coatings, and polymer concrete. The vinyl unsaturated systems are, for example, monomers, oligomers, and or polymers which undergo free radical polymerization and are polymerized from such monomers as i. Mono, di and trifunctional acrylates and methacrylates ii. fumarates iii. maleates iv. vinyl esters v. styrenes vi. acrylamides vii. acrylonitrile viii. itaconate esters ix. alpha methylene glutarate esters x. acryloxyproprionic acid and esters xi. methacrylic acid or acrylic acid.Such polymers as i. maleate containing polyesters ii. fumarate containing polyesters iii. itaconate containing polyesters iv. alpha methylene glutarate containing polyesters v. vinyl resins vi. urethane multi meth acrylates vii. polyester multi meth acrylates can comprise the vinyl unsaturated system. The vinyl unsaturated system can also include additive s such as pigments, colorants, sand, glass fibers, surfactants, dispersants, and defoamers. The convenient ratio of aldehyde or imine to vinyl unsaturated system is about 1 to 20 parts by weight aldehyde or imine and about 99 to 80 parts by weight vinyl unsaturated system. Mixtures of aldehydes and imines can be used. It will be noted that in the aldehyde or imine formula R1 cannot be connected to R2 so that benzaldehyde is excluded from the scope of the formula. A preferred mixture of aldehydes is the reaction product of a ethylene urea, b formaldehyde, c isobutylaldehyde, and d 2 ethyl hexanal in a molar ratio of a b of 1 2 and of a to the sum of c and d of 1 2. A particularly preferred group of imines is the reaction product of the just mentioned aldehyde mixture with t butyl amine. The following examples are presented to illustrate a few embodiments of the invention but are not intended to be limiting thereto. In these examples all parts and percentages are by weight unless otherwise indicated. The following abbreviations are utilized in the examples which follow. IDMA isodecyl methacrylate IBOMA isobornyl methacrylate IBOA isobornyl acrylate HPMA hydroxypropyl methacrylate TEGMA tetraethylene glycol dimethacrylate DCPOMS dicyclopentenyloxyethyl methacrylate C8AM N nonyl acrylamide TMPTA trimethylol propane triacrylate LMA lauryl methacrylate CEMA cetyl iscosyl methacrylate IDMA isodecyl methacrylate. EXAMPLES Example 1 Preparation of 2 Oxoimidaxolidine 1,3 bis 2,2 dimethylpropanal A 500 ml., three necked flask equipped with a thermometer, condenser, and mechanical stirrer was charged, under a nitrogen blanket, with 86.1 g. of 2 imidazolidone ethyleneurea, 1.0 mole , 151 g. of isobutyraldehyde 2.1 moles , and 162 g. of 37 aqueous formaldehyde solution 2.0 moles . A mild exotherm resulted 22 450C . On addition of 21.5g of 50 aqueous sulfuric acid solution w w , the temperature of. the reaction mixture rose to 580C with the onset of reflux. To maintain reflux, the temperature of the reaction mixture was gradually increased, reaching 950C after 2.75 hours. The product was cooled and neutralized with 50 aqueous sodium hydroxide solution. After standing for several hours, two layers formed. The organic layer was decanted from the aqueous bottom layer, then mixed with methylene chloride 500 1. and extracted with two, 100 ml. portions of water.Methylene chloride and traces of water were stripped from the product using a rotary evaporator, affording 254 g. of product 100 yield as a yellow oil which crystallized slowly on cooling. Further purification of the product by recrystallization from methylene chloride and ethyl ether gave 175 g. of colorless crystals, mp 83 84 C. NMR CDCL3 9.63 s, 2H, CHO , 3.35 s. 4H, CH2 , 3.30 s, 4H, CH 2 , and and 1.10 s, 12H, CH3 . The product is slightly soluble in water 5 wt. and readily soluble in common polar organic solvents. Example 2 Preparation of 2 Oxiomidazoline 1,3bis dialkylpropanal A 1000 ml. four necked flask equipped with a thermometer, condenser, mechanical stirrer, and nitrogen ebullator was charged with 215.3 g. ethyleneurea 2.5 moles , 150.0 g. paraformaldehyde 5.0 moles , and 100 g.water. Aqueous sulfuric acid 50 , 8.0 g., 0.04 mole was then added slowly to the slurry, with stirring, over a period of 15 minutes. A moderate exotherm resulted 250C 600C . When the exotherm ceased, 72.1 g.isobutyraldehyde 1.0 mole was added over 15 minutes while concurrently heating the reaction mixture to 800C. After a 15 minute hold at temperature, at which point essentially all of the isobutyraldehyde had been consumed, the mixture was heated to 100C and 192.3 g. 2 ethylhexanal 1.5 moles was added over 15 minutes. The temperature was maintained between 950C and 1000C for 2.5 hours. The reactor was cooled to 800C and 185.0 g. isobutyraldehyde 2.56 moles was then added over 30 minutes. A 1.5 hour hold at reflux completed the condensation. The mixture was cooled to 700C and treated with 5.0 g. of sodium hydroxide pellets 0.125 mole to effect catalyst neutralization. After 15 minutes of agitation, the stirrer was stopped to allow phase separation rapid and removal of the aqueous bottom layer.Unreacted isobutyraldehyde and water were then distilled in vacuo 80 C, 20 mm . Filtration of the residue through a Celite pad afforded 684 g. of product 95 yield as a light yellow oil with a Brookfield viscosity of 6,000 cps at 250C. Example 3 Preparation of 2,2 Dimethyl 3 oxopropylLaurate To a hot 80 C solution of lauric acid 70 g., 0.35 mole , and hydroxypivaldehyde 30.6 g., 0.3 mole in 120 g.of toluene was added 1.75 g. of p toluenesulfonic acid monohydrate 0.009 mole . The mixture was then heated at total reflux for 1.5 hrs. and water generated in the reaction was removed by azeotropic distillation. The reaction mixture was cooled, washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and brine, then dried over magnesium sulfate, filtered, and evaporated in vacuo. GLC analysis of the product showed that it contained 90 of the desired laurate ester. Fractional distillation of the crude sample gave a product cut, b.p. 1800C 4.0 mm, of 95 purity GLC, area . NMR CDCL3 9.73 s, 1H, CHO , 4.2 s, 2H, CO2CH2 , 2.3 t, 2H, CH2CO2 , 0.9 1.9 m, 23H,CH3 CH2 10CH2CO2 , and 1.17 s, 6H, C CH3 2. Example 4 Preparation of Bis 2,2 4ijnethyl 3 oxopropyl Fumarate Crude bis 2,2 dimethyl 3 oxopropyl maleate was treated with a catalytic amount of morpholine 10 wt. in refluxing toluene for 4 hrs. The resulting solution was cooled to room temperature, washed with diluted hydrochloric acid and brine, then dried over magnesium sulfate.Evaporation of volatiles in vacuo gave crude bis 2,2 dimethyl 3 oxopropyl fumarate in essentially quantitative yield. NMR CDCL3 9.7 s, lH, CHO , 6.93 s, 2H, trans CH CH , 4.33 s, 211, CO2CH2 , and 1.2 s, 6H, C CH3 2 . Obtained with a distilled sample of bis 2,2dimethyl 3 oxopropyl fumarate, m.p. 550C. Example 5 Preparation of Bis 2,2 dimethyl 3oxopropyl Aselate A 3 liter, four necked flask equipped with a mechanical stirrer, nitrogen sparage, steam jacketed additional funnel, Dean Stark trap and condenser was charged with 380 g. of azelaic acid 2 moles , 500 g. of toluene and 13.3 g. of p toluenesulfonic acid monohydrate 0.07 mole .The mixture was heated at reflux, yielding an homogeneous solution within 20 minutes. To the reaction mixture was then dropwise added a preheated solution of 450 g. of hydroxypivaldehyde 4.4 moles in 500 g. of toluene. Water was removed azeotropically via the Dean Stark trap. When the reaction was complete, the mixture was cooled to room temperature and washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and brine, then dried over magnesium sulfate and evaporated in vacuo giving 720 g. of the crude dialdehyde azelate. GLC analysis area indicated that the product contained 75 of bisaldehyde azelate. NMR CDCL3 9.7 s, 2H, CHO , 4.26 s, 4H, CO2CH2 , 2.3 t, 4H, CH2CO2 , 0.9 1.8 m, 1011, O2CH2 CH2 5 CH2CO2 , and 1.2 s, 12H, C CH3 2 . Example 6 Preparation of Bis It Butyl Imine ofExample 1 A 500 ml. three necked flask equipped with a thermometer, mechanical stirrer, Dean Stark trap, and condenser was charged, under a nitrogen blanket, with 50.8 g. 2 oxoimidazolidine 1 ,3 bis 2,2 dimethyl propanal 0.2 mole , 50 g. t butylamine 0.65 mole and 200 g.methylene chloride. The reaction mixture was heated to reflux 460C and water was removed azeotropically. After a total of 20 hours at reflux, the theoretical amount of water was isolated 7 ml. . The reaction was cooled and the crude product was stripped on a rotary evaporator. Upon cooling, the residue solidified to give the bisimine as a colorless waxy solid, mp 46 47 C. Example 7 Use of Aldehydes Imines as OxygenScavengers in Thin Film Polymerizations A filter paper matrix was used to approximate thin film conditions. The sample to be tested is weighed onto an approximately equal weight of filter paper Whatman No. 1 .Weight changes are followed with tine. At selected intervals the test sample is extracted with chloroform orCDCl3 and the weight extractables determined. The extractables may be subjected to a variety of tests as warranted i.e. nmr ir spectrum, titration, elemental analysis . If the sample to be tested is a solid or a high viscosity liquid the material is diluted with chloroform prior to absorption onto the filter paper. Monomers Monomer Cures in a Filter Paper Matrix 0.18 Co rt Cure 1 Monomer s Ratio Time Sol. F2 TEGMA 100 3 days TEGMA EX.1 98 2 2 days 95 5 2 days 90 10 1 day 0.29 80 20 4 5 hours 0.16 70 30 4 5 hours 0.30 IBOMA EX. 1 95 5 2 days 90 10 2 days 1.00 80 20 1 day 0.99 TMPTA EX. 1 90 10 1 day 0.22 1 Cure no methacrylate in nmr spectrum of soluble fraction.2 Fraction of material which can be extracted from the filter paper by chloroform post cure. Example 8 Thin Film Oxidative Polymerizations with Aldehyde of Example 2 Filter Paper Matrix 1 daytrt 0.1 CO Using the aldehyde of Example 2 in a system, the following data was observed Nature ofSample Ratio Evap. Monomer Polymer PolymerIDMA EX. 2 90 10 10.5 89.5 0 80 20 6.0 54 40 solubleIBOMA EX. 2 90 10 20 40 40 soluble 80 20 7 23 70 solubleIBOA EX. 2 90 10 35 20 45 soluble 80 20 5.5 10 85 solubleHPMA EX.2 90 10 52 0 48 soluble 80 20 13 0 87 loose gelTEGMA EX. 2 90 10 4 0 104 gel 80 20 2 0 102 gelDCPMA EX. 2 90 10 2 0 102 gel 80 20 2 0 102 gel C8Am EX. 2 90 10 6 20 74 soluble 80f20 5 0 95 soluble Example 9 Cure of Unsaturated Polyester Resin withAldehyde Oxygen Scavenger An aldehyde which was of the formulaEMI16.1 wherein R is a 1 1 mixture of Et and Bu was used in a 1 mil film 0.1 Co 2 days room temperature experiment using a fumaric acid neopentyl glycol 1 1 unsaturated polyester, and the following data resulted Equiv Soluble Fraction System CHO db in CHCL Unsaturated Polyester UPE 1.01Aldehyde 1.00UPE aldehyde 9 1 0.15 0.44 8 2 , 0.34 0.23 7 3 0.59 0.23 Example 10 Monomer Evaluation in Unfilled Castings The following unfilled castings were prepared at room temperature to determine the effect of the oxygen scavenger aldehyde in Example 2. Cure 2 2 Time 24 Hr. HPMA Catalysts min SurfaceIDMA CHP Co NC LiquidDPMA CHP Co 360 LiquidLMA CHP Co NC LiquidCEMA CHP Co 300 LiquidIDMA CHP Co Example 2 124 HardDPMA CHP Co Example 2 100 HardLMA CHP Co Example 2 95 HardCEMA CHP Co Example 2 70 Hard NC No Cure 1Equal parts of HPMA and designated monomer 2 2 Cumene Bydroperoxide 0.13 Co 3 Aldehyde Example 11 Comparison of Aldehyde of Example 9 withImine of Example 6 This example demonstrates the advantage of the imines as to pot stability Approx. 0.1 Co Appro.Cure Times rt Sample 0.1 Thin Solution Thin FilmTetraethyleneglycol dimethacrylate 5 9 days 9 daysTetraethyleneglycol dimethacrylate Example 9 9 1 1 day 1 dayTetraethyleneglycol dimethacrylate Example 6 9 1 12 14 days 1 dayDicyclopentenyloxyethyl methacrylate 1 day 2 5 daysDicyclopentenyloxyethyl methacrylate Example 9 9 1 1 day 1 dayDicyclopentenyloxyethyl methacrylate Example 6 9 1 1 day 1 dayUnsaturated Polyester Resin1 10 days 10 daysUnsaturated Polyester Resin Example 9 8 2 1 day 1 dayUnsaturated Polyester Resin Example 6 8 2 10 days 10 days 1 Unsaturated polyester resin prepared from fumaric acid and neopentyl glycol. 2 After 3 days at rt, thin film cured well at 3 hours 60 C. Example 12 Effect of Cobalt Ions and Thiuram on PotStability This example shows the effect tetramethyl thiauram disulfide TMTDS as a stabilizer for aldehyde promoted oxidative polymerizations. Twenty parts of the aldehyde ofExample 2 was mixed with 80 parts trifunctional acrylate monomer and to this mixture was in turn added selected amounts of Co and TMTDS with the following results Cure Time 0.2 Co 1000 ppm TMTDS Pot Stability thin film 4 20 hours no cure 2 hours 4 20 hours 1 month no cure 6 9 weeks 20 24 hours Example 13 Use of Oxime Stabilizer This example demonstrates the use of methyl ethyl ketone oxime Exkin No. 2 in TEGMA Cymel 303 Tetraethylene glycol Dimethacrylate Cobalt 56.2 18.8 20 5 0.06 0 .5 Cycat 600 binder formulation. Exkin No. 2 Viscosity Brookfield, cps ICI, poise Percent on Binder Initial 3 Days 5 Days 10 Days 105 1.28 Gelled 0.15 105 1.25 160 1.42 145 1.50 170 1.68 0.30 110 1.22 160 1.35 140 1.42 165 1.58 0.60 105 1.22 150 1.32 135 1.40 155 1.50 130 1.42 Gelled Example 14 UV Cure of Diacrylate of Bisphenol ADiepoxide Using Aldehyde Oxygen Scavenger Forty parts diacrylate of Bisphenol A diepoxide Shell DRH 370 brand , 60 parts DCPOMA, and 2 parts diethoxyacetophenone were exposed to equal levels of UV radiation with the following results Oxygen Scavenger Film Thickness Mils Result 1 1.5 Hard, slight tack 10 EX. 9 1 1.5 Hard, tack free C 0.5 Moderate tack 10 EX. 9 0.5 Tack free Example 15 Aldehyde Oxygen Scavenger EffecU on v Surface Cure of Unsaturated Polyester Castings When 2 of the aldehyde of Example 2, when added to an unsaturated polyester unsaturated monomer casting resin formulation containing 1 benzoyl peroxide, 0.068 Co , 0.2 dimethyl aniline at polyester monomer ratios of between 38 62 and 65 35, and using as monomers either dicyclopentenyloxyethyl methacrylate, dicyclopenteneyloxyethyl acrylate, or styrene, a hard, tack free surface was obtained versus either a liquid or very tacky surface when the aldehyde was deleted. Example 16 Use of Oxygen Scavengers in PolymerConcrete The oxygen scavenger aldehydes of Example 9 andExample 1 were used as levels up to 20 based on polymer concrete formulations containing sand, silica flour, Fe3O4,TiO2, benzoyl peroxide, catalyst, acrylic resin and acrylic monomer, with excellent results as to improving cure and adhesion characteristics. Pot Cure Surface Life Speed Cure QualityAldehyde Ex. Level hrs. hrs. 16 hrs. Adhesion 0 0 3 None None None 9 2 3 None None None 1 2 3 None None None 9 5 3 4 Excellent Excellent 1 5 3 4 Excellent Excellent 9 10 2 3 Excellent Excellent 1 10 3 3 Excellent Excellent 9 20 2 2 Excellent Excellent 1 20 3 3 Excellent Excellent Although the invention has been described in great detail herein, various modifications, alternatives, and improvements thereto should become readily apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope thereof.