# A SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICE

## Claims
Halbleiterbauelement mit einem Heteroübergang 3 zwischen ersten 5,6 und zweiten 1,2 Halbleitermaterialen, wobei das erste Material einen größeren Bandabstand als das zweite Material besitzt und entlang des Heteroüberganges 3 eine leitende Bahn 7 liefert, die ein Muster gegenüberliegender oder gegabelter Zweige 9,10 von der Ordnung der mittleren freien Weglänge für ein Elektron aufweist und das Bauelement ferner Mittel 12 aufweist, um ein lokalisiertes elektrisches Feld durch einen Teil eines 9 der Zweige in eine Richtung einzuprägen, die senkrecht zu den Heteroübergang liegt, um die Elektronenwellenlänge in den Teil zu ändern.

## Description
This invention relates to a semiconductor device. One switching structure currently receiving attention that occupies little space and exhibits low energy dissipation employs an alternating current signal which passes around separate opposing semicircular paths and is influenced by a magnetic field in one of the paths. The magnetic field operates to change the phase relationship of the currents in the two paths sufficiently to produce reinforcing or destructive interference. Such a structure together with the physics involved is described in Quantum Oscillations and the Aharonov Bohm Effect for Parallel Resistors, Phys. Rev. Ltrs. The use of a magnetic field for control purposes, however, has limitations due to impedance and response time considerations. According to the invention, there is provided a semiconductor device including a heterojunction 3 between first 5, 6 and second 1, 2 semiconductor materials, the first material having a greater band gap than the second material and providing along the heterojunction 3 a conductive path 7 having a pattern of opposed or bifurcated branches 9, 10 of the order of the mean free path of electron, the device further including means 12 to impress a localised electric field through a portion of one 9 of the branches in a direction perpendicular to the heterojunction in order to change the electron wavelength in said portion. How the invention can be carried out will now be described by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which The invention involves the response to an electric field of electrons in a quantum well adjacent to a semiconductor heterojunction interface to provide reinforcing or destructive interference to a signal involving opposed branches of a conductor path adjacent to the heterojunction interface. For clarity of explanation, an embodiment of the invention will be described in which the heterojunction is at the interface of GaAs and Ga In a semiconductor having a heterojunction, electrons in a quantum well at the heterojunction interface will have a wave nature with substantially no loss of phase over relatively large distances. This can occur because the mean free path of the electrons with respect to the scattering phenomena can be longer than the critical dimensions of the structure involved. The mean free path is of the order of 10 micrometers in some GaAs Ga In accordance with the invention, where the heterojunction is provided in semiconductor material with a long electron mean free path in a region of the semiconductor adjacent to the surface and a conductor path having a pattern of opposed or bifurcated branches of the order of the mean free path length is positioned on the surface, an electric field applied to change the electron wave length over a portion of one path will in turn produce constructive or destructive interference in a signal in the conductor path. The device of the invention involves electrons moving in waves in a potential well adjacent a heterojunction. Devices involving the concept of high mobility electrons adjacent a heterojunction are known as HEMT devices and are described in IEEE Spectrum, February 1984, p. 28. In these devices the doping is arranged to enhance mobility and to contribute electrons to the conducting layer in the GaAs near the Ga Referring to FIG. 1, a buffer layer 1 of doped GaAs is supported on a substrate not shown . A layer 2 of undoped GaAs is epitaxial with the layer 1. The layer 2 is epitaxial with and forms a heterojunction 3 with a region of a different semiconductor 4 of Ga The structure of FIG. 1, where a signal is provided at input 8, will exhibit constructive or destructive interference of the current at output 11 when an electric field is applied by a voltage signal on control electrode 12 and a drain voltage is applied between input 8 and output 11. In FIG. 2 there is shown an energy diagram of the structure taken along the line A A in FIG. 1. In the illustration of FIG. 2 the energy bands of the structure are shown for the regions identified by their reference numerals in FIG. 1. The metal electrode is the gate 12. The Ga The energy band structure at the heterojunction 3 between semiconductor materials with different band gaps, that is between the undoped Ga The magnitude of the electron gas and the performance of the wave behavior of the gas can be controlled through the application of an electric field by applying a voltage signal to the control or gate electrode 12 which operates to change the Fermi energy level with respect to the potential well. In fabrication, the conducting path 7 may be shaped by etching a mesa through the Ga The effect of the electric field applied by a voltage signal on control electrode 12 is illustrated in FIG. 3 for the condition when a signal is applied to the input portion 8 of conducting path 7 and the current due to the interfering electron waves is sensed at the output portion 11. Since it is possible in a structure built along the principles of FIGS. 1, 2 and 3, to change the number of electrons in the potential well and hence the Fermi energy, a change in propagation vector and in wavelength of the travelling electron wave is caused to occur so that when this is accomplished locally in a branching conductor, there will be reinforcing or destructive interference with respect to an identical conductor not so affected. Referring to FIG. 3, the electron wave travelling from input 8 to output 11 around the semicircular path 10 remains the same at the output as at the input, whereas around the semicircular path 9 when an electric field is present as a result of a voltage signal applied on control electrode 12 the wave behavior locally is affected under the electrode along the dimension L which results in reinforcing or destructive interference between the current increments passing around the branches 9 and 10. In destructive interference, the current increments can cancel each other producing no signal at the output. In a preferred embodiment of the invention, referring to FIG. 1, the region 2 would be undoped GaAs. The region 1 would be GaAs doped with Si to 10¹⁷ atoms per cm³. The layers 5 and 6 would be Ga Referring to FIG. 3, in order to produce interference, a phase shift should occur in the presence of the electric field and would be expressed as shown in Equation 1. where where To examine a particular example, assume that the carrier concentration, N which for an N To produce destructive interference the wavelength λ₂ which is under the gate must be changed by converting using Eq. 1 to where the corresponds to the two destructive interference conditions adjacent to the constructive peak. Under these conditions then λ₂ 26.2nm or 30.6nm for the or sign, respectively. The new values of N To calculate the gain of such a device, the degree to which perfect interference is achieved must be known. If the interference were perfect, the transmission, T, would be unity for constructive and zero for destructive interference. Any scattering would make both tend toward 0.5. To continue the illustration, if T were to be 0.9 and 0.1 which is less than perfect interference, the resistance, R, of the device can be determined using the Landauer formula described in IBM Journal of Research and Development, July 1957, page 223. For constructive or destructive interference R would respectively be 1.4x10³ or 1.1x10⁵ ohms. If a drain voltage, V Where V Greater or less gain would be achieved by changing L, changing the Ga The above analysis is only approximate since Eq. 5 is designed around a one dimensional situation but the principles are clear. The lower the temperature the easier it is to get a long mean free path. Where the shift of phase is 2π radians, n changes by 1 in Equation 1, the conductance goes through a maximum and a minimum and such a condition will provide the basis for a frequency multiplier. In the light of the above principles of providing carriers in a potential well at a heterointerface under a multipath conductor and then changing the wave behavior of the carriers by movement of the Fermi level, it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that many substitutions and changes to the interferometer structure may be made. As examples it will be apparent that multiple gates in separate paths for frequency modulation and logic may be used. Further, by using different spatial positions of two or more ports or contacts such as 8 and 11 around the bifurcated paths or loop a device well known in the art as a circulator may be fabricated.