# 2 HYDROXY 3 ARYLOXYPROPYL OR 2 HYDROXY 2 BENZOFURANYL ETHYL TERTIARY AMINE HAVING AN ANTI HYPERGLYCAEMIC AND OR ANTI OBESITY ACTIVITY

## Claims
Verbindung der allgemeinen Formel I

## Description
The invention relates to tertiary amines which have anti hyperglycaemic and or anti obesity activity, to processes for their preparation pharmaceutical compositions containing them and their use in agriculture. Tertiary amines having anti hyperglycaemic and or anti obesity activity are already known. For example, EP 101069 A discloses certain phenylethanolamine derivatives with anti obesity and hypoglycaemic activity the nitrogen atom of these is substituted by a 2 hydroxyphenethyl radical, by one phenalkyl or thienylalkyl radical, and by a further 2 hydroxyphenethyl radical or by a 2 hydroxyalkyl radical. EP 140243 A also discloses certain tertiary amines having anti hyperglycaemic and or anti obesity activity. The disclosures of EP 140243 A are relevant to the invention only in so far as is dictated by Article 54 3 of the European Patent Convention. We have now discovered a group of pharmacologically active tertiary amines which are aryloxypropanolamine derivatives, the hydroxy group being on the carbon atom β to the nitrogen atom. The compounds have potent anti obesity and anti hyperglycaemic activity coupled with low cardiac stimulation activity. Accordingly, the present invention provides a compound of the general formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, R² R³ Q² represents a hydroxy group or a pharmaceutically acceptable The compounds of the general formula I have, depending on the meaning of Q¹, Q² and R², up to three asymmetric carbon atoms, marked with asterisks in the formula. These compounds may, therefore, exist in up to eight stereoisomeric forms. Also, when R⁴ represents a C R⁸ C R⁹ COOH radical, geometrical isomers are possible. The present invention encompasses all stereoisomers and geometrical isomers of the compounds of the general formula I whether free from other isomers or admixed with other isomers in any proportion, and thus includes, for instance, racemic mixtures of enantiomers. When used herein in connection with alkyl and alkoxy radicals, or with alkanols, the term lower indicates that the radical or compound has from 1 to 6 carbon atoms, preferably 1 to 4 carbon atoms. The alkyl radical or the alkyl moiety in the alkoxy radical or alkanol compound may be straight or branched chain, e.g. a methyl, ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl, n butyl, isobutyl or a tert. butyl group. The radical Q¹ shown in the general formula I is preferably a hydrogen atom, and Q² preferably a hydroxy group or ester thereof. Similarly, in each of the radicals a and b represented by R¹ preferably Q¹ represents a hydrogen atom and Q² represents a hydroxy group or a pharmaceutically acceptable Thus, there should especially be mentioned compounds of the general formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and R²,R³,R⁴,R⁴,,R⁵,R⁶,R⁷, m and n are as defined in relation to formula I and D represents a benzofuran 2 yl moiety or a radical of formula c as defined in relation to formula I . More especially, there should be mentioned compounds of the general formula I or I in which Preferably R² in general formulae I or I represents a methyl group. Preferably in the moiety or each moiety of the formula R³ represents a hydrogen atom. Preferably, in the moiety of the formula R⁴ is in the is In each of the general formulae I and I , R⁴ may represent, for example, a radical of the formula CH₂ R⁴ may also represent, for example, a radical of the formula O CH₂ R⁴ may further represent, for example, a radical of the formula C R⁸ R⁹ COOH or an ester or amide derivative thereof mentioned above. Each of R⁸ and R⁹ preferably represents a hydrogen atom. An ester derivative of one of the carboxy containing R⁴ groups is, for example, a lower alkyl ester, e.g. a methyl or ethyl ester. An amide derivative of one of the carboxy containing R⁴ groups is a CONR¹⁰R¹¹ group in which R¹⁰ and R¹¹ have the meanings given above. R⁴ may furthermore represent a radical of the formula SO₂NR¹⁰R¹¹, CH₂ In the various radicals mentioned above, each of R¹⁰ and R¹¹ may represent a lower alkyl radical, especially a methyl group, or a hydrogen atom. When NR¹⁰R¹¹ forms a saturated 5 or 6 membered ring this may, if desired, contain a further hetero atom. Preferably, NR¹⁰R¹¹ represents a 1 pyrrolidinyl or 1 piperidyl group, or, especially, in the case of an O CH₂ Other possibilities for R⁴ are other radicals of the formulae CH₂ Preferably, however, R⁴ represents a carboxy containing radical or an ester or amide derivative thereof. More preferably, R⁴ represents a carboxy group or a radical OCH₂CO₂H or an ester or amide thereof. Preferred esters are the methyl and ethyl esters. R¹ may represent a 2 hydroxy 2 benzofuran 2 yl ethyl group or a moiety of the formula wherein R³, R⁶ and R⁷ are as defined in relation to formula I and R⁵ represents a hydrogen or halogen atom, a hydroxy or hydroxymethyl group or an ester of either of these groups, or a group NH₂ or NHR¹² in which R¹² represents a lower alkyl radical. When there are two of the radicals a in the molecule, these may be the same or different, provided that at least one R³ represents a hydrogen atom. In the radical of the formula b , a halogen atom represented by R⁶ and or R⁷ is preferably a chlorine atom, and in the radical R⁵ a lower alkyl radical R¹² is preferably a methyl group. An ester of a hydroxy or hydroxy containing group represented by R⁵ or R⁶ is an ester of, for example, an aromatic or lower alkyl carboxylic acid. Preferably, however, the moiety of the formula b is one of the following groups In a particularly preferred aspect the present invention provides a compound selected from the group consisting of The absolute configuration of any compound of the general formula I may be determined by conventional x ray crystallographic techniques. Suitably, the asymmetric carbon has the R configuration. Suitably the asymmetric carbon has the R configuration. When R¹ is a radical of formula a and R₂ is methyl and Q¹ is hydrogen, a favoured enantiomer is that wherein the asymmetic carbons have the following configurations When R¹ is a radical of formula b and R² is methyl and Q¹is hydrogen, a favoured enantiomer is that wherein the asymmetric carbons have the following configurations The pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compounds of the general formula I may be acid addition salts salt formation is possible for example with the nitrogen atom shown in the formula I . Salts may also be formed, for example, with carboxy groups. Internal salts should also be mentioned. The hydrates of the pharmaceutically acceptable salts are also encompassed in the present invention. Acid addition salts may be, for example, salts with inorganic acids such, for example, as hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, orthophosphoric acid or sulphuric acid, or organic acids such, for example, as methanesulphonic acid, toluenesulphonic acid, acetic acid, propionic acid, lactic acid, citric acid, fumaric acid, malic acid, succinic acid, salicylic acid or acetylsalicylic acid. Salts formed with carboxy groups may be, for example alkali metal, e.g. sodium or potassium, or ammonium salts or alkaline earth metal salts, e.g. calcium or magnesium salts. The invention also provides a process A for the preparation of a compound of the general formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, which comprises reacting a compound of the general formula II in which R², D, R⁴, R⁴ , The present invention also provides a process B for the preparation of a compound of the general formula I in which there is one oxo group represented by Q¹ Q², or a pharmaceuticaly acceptable salt thereof, which comprises reacting a compound of the general formula II , provided that Q¹ and Q² do not represent an oxo group, with a compound of the general formula A leaving group Z is any group that will, under the reaction conditions, cleave from the starting material thus promoting reaction at a specified site. Suitable examples of such groups are halogen atoms, mesyloxy groups and tosyloxy groups. Preferably in compounds of formula C and IV Z represents a tosyloxy group, and in compounds of formula D and V Z represents a bromine atom. A starting material of the general formula II may be prepared, for example, by reacting a compound of the general formula VII a or VII b in which D is as defined in relation to formula I , and Z is as defined in relation to formula V , with a compound of the general formula VIII in which R², R⁴, R⁴ , Compounds of formulae III , IV , V , VII , a and b , and VIII are either known compounds or can be prepared from known compounds by known processes or processes analogous to known processes. The invention also provides a process C for the preparation of a compound of the general formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, which comprises reacting a compound of the general formula IX Starting materials of the general formula IX are described, for example, in EP 0023385 and may be prepared, for example, by reacting a compound of the hereinbefore defined general formulae III and VIII or V and VIII . The reaction between compounds of the general formulae II and III , III and VIII , VII a and VIII , IX and VII a, or X and VIII is advantageously carried out in a protic solvent, e.g. a lower alkanol having at least 2 carbon atoms, at reflux, preferably in ethanol. Reaction between compounds of the general formulae II and IV is advantageously carried out in dimethyl sulphoxide, for example at a temperature in the range of from 30 to 80 C, e.g. about 50 C and advantageously for a period of time of 1 to 4 days, e.g. about 3 days. The reaction between the compounds of the general formulae II and V or V and VIII is advantageously carried out in butanone or acetonitrile at reflux, if desired in the presence of a base. The invention also provides a process D for the preparation of a compound of the general formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, which comprises reacting a compound of the general formula II In method i above, the reduction may be carried out, for example, with sodium cyanoborohydride in method ii , the reaction of compounds of the general formulae II and XI may be carried out in the presence, for example, of dicyclohexyl carbodiimide or other suitable condensing agent, and the subsequent reduction may be carried out, for example, with lithium aluminium hydride or a borane reducing agent, for example borane methyl sulphide complex. The invention also provides a process E for the preparation of a compound of the general formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, which comprises reacting a compound of the general formula XII in which D, Q¹ and Q² are as defined in relation to formula I and R is as defined in relation to formula III , Reaction of compounds of the general formulae XII and XIII is advantageously carried out, in the case where Z¹ represents a leaving group, for example one of those mentioned above, more especially a tosyloxy group or bromine atom, in dimethyl sulphoxide or methanol, for example at a suitable temperature in the range of from 30 to 80 C, e.g. about 50 C and advantageously for a period of time of 1 to 4 days, e.g. about 3 days. In the case where Z¹and Z² together represent an oxo group, the subsequent reduction is, for example, with sodium cyanoborohydride. A compound of the general formula I may, if desired, be converted into another compound of the general formula I by a method known Also, for example, a compound of the general formula VI or a salt thereof may be reduced to form a compound of the general formula I . Thus, the invention also provides for a process F for the preparation of a compound of the general formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, which comprises reducing a compound of the general formula VI in which R, R², D, R⁴, R⁴,, The reduction of the compound of the general formula VI is advantageously carried out with sodium borohydride and preferably in a lower alkanol. The salts of compounds of the general formula I may be produced, for example, by treating a compound of general formula I with the appropriate acid or base. Compounds of the general formula I and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, produced by the above processes, may be recovered by conventional methods. Compounds of the general formula I may be separated into diastereoisomeric pairs of enantiomers by, for example, fractional crystallisation from a suitable solvent, for example methanol or ethyl acetate or a mixture thereof. The pair of enantiomers thus obtained may be separated into individual stereoisomers by conventional means, for example by the use of an optically active acid as a resolving agent. Suitable optically active acids which may be used as resolving agents are described in Topics in Stereochemistry , Vol. 6, Wiley Interscience, 1971, Allinger, N.L. and Eliel, W.L. Eds. Alternatively, any enantiomer of a compound of the general formula I may be obtained by stereospecific synthesis using optically pure starting materials of known configuration. For example, reaction of one enantiomer of a compound of the general formula VII a or III with one enantiomer of a compound of the general formula VIII gives a compound of a general formula II or IX respectively as a single enantiomer. The enantiomer may then be further reacted with a single enantiomer, for example the enantiomer of compound of the general formula II with one enantiomer of a compound of the general formula III or the enantiomer of compound of the general formula IX with one enantiomer of a compound of the general formula VII a, to produce a single enantiomer of the general formula I . As previously indicated, the compounds of the present invention have valuable pharmacological properties. The present invention also provides a compound of the general formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for use as an active therapeutic substance. In one aspect, the present invention provides a compound of the general formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for use in the treatment of obesity in human or non human animals. The present invention further provides a compound of the general formula I , or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, for use in the treatment of hyperglycaemia in human or non human animals. A compound of the general formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof may be administered Accordingly, the present invention also provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of the general formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier therefor. As used herein the term pharmaceutically acceptable embraces compounds, compositions and ingredients for both human and veterinary use for example the term pharmaceutically acceptable salt embraces a veterinarily acceptable salt. The composition may, if desired, be in the form of a pack accompanied by written or printed instructions for use. Usually the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention will be adapted for oral administration, although compositions for administration by other routes, such as by injection, are also envisaged. Particularly suitable compositions for oral administration are unit dosage forms such as tablets and capsules. Other fixed unit dosage forms, such as powders presented in sachets, may also be used. In accordance with conventional pharmaceutical practice the carrier may comprise a diluent, filler, disintegrant, wetting agent, lubricant, colourant, flavourant or other conventional adjuvant. Typical carriers include, for example, microcrystalline cellulose, starch, sodium starch glycollate, polyvinylpyrrolidone, magnesium stearate, sodium lauryl sulphate or sucrose. Most suitably the composition will be formulated in unit dose form. Such unit dose will normally contain an amount of the active ingredient in the range of from 0.1 to 1000 mg, more usually 0.1 to 500 mg, and more especially 0.1 to 250 mg. Conveniently, the active ingredient may be administered as a pharmaceutical composition hereinbefore defined, and this forms a particular aspect of the present invention. In treating hyperglycaemic or obese humans the compound of the general formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof may be taken in doses, such as those described above, one to six times a day in a manner such that the total daily dose for a 70 kg adult will generally be in the range of from 0.1 to 6000 mg, and more usually about 1 to 1500 mg. In treating hyperglycaemic or obese non human animals, especially dogs, the active ingredient may be administered by mouth, usually once or twice a day and in an amount in the range of from about 0.025 mg kg to 25 mg kg, for example 0.1 mg kg to 20 mg kg. In a further aspect the present invention also provides a method for improving the weight gain and or improving the feed utilisation efficiency and or increasing lean body mass of livestock, which method comprises the administration to livestock of an effective non toxic amount of a compound of formula I or a veterinarily acceptable salt thereof. Whilst the compounds of formula I and the veterinarily acceptable salts thereof may be administered to any livestock in the abovementioned method, they are particularly suitable for improving the weight gain and or feed utilisation efficiency and or lean body mass in poultry, especially turkeys and chickens, cattle, pigs and sheep. In the preceding method the compounds of formula I and veterinarily acceptable salts thereof will normally be administered orally although non oral modes of administration, for example injection or implantation, are also envisaged. Suitably the compounds are administered in the feed stuff or drinking water provided for the livestock. Conveniently these are administered in the feed stuff at from 10 ³ ppm 500ppm of total daily fed intake, more usually 0.01ppm to 250ppm, suitably less than 100ppm. The particular formulations used will of course depend upon the mode of administration but will be those used conventionally in the mode of administration chosen. For administration in feed stuff the drugs are conveniently formulated as a premix in association with a suitable carrier. Suitable carriers are inert conventional agents such as powdered starch. Other conventional feed stuff premix carriers may also be employed. No toxicological effects are indicated when a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered in any of the abovementioned dosage ranges. The following Examples illustrate the invention. A mixture of methyl 4 R 2 aminopropyl benzoate 0.2 g and S phenoxymethyloxirane 0.28 g was heated under reflux in ethanol for 43h. The solvent was evaporated and the residue chromatographed on alumina. Elution with chloroform gave methyl 4 R 2 bis S 2 hydroxy 3 phenoxypropyl amino propyl benzoate, m.p. 63 66 C ether petrol , α 25 D MeOH 13.5 . A mixture of methyl 4 R 2 aminopropyl benzoate 0.16 g and R phenoxymethyloxirane 0.224 g was heated under reflux in ethanol for 76h. The solvent was evaporated and the residue chromatographed on kieselgel. Elution with chloroform gave an oil which was converted to methyl 4 R 2 bis R 2 hydroxy 3 phenoxypropyl amino propyl benzoate, fumarate, m.p. 44 50 C. The compound of Example 1 was dissolved in methanolic methylamine and heated in an autoclave at 100 C for 20h. The solvent was evaporated and the residue chromatographed on kieselgel. Elution with methanol chloroform 2 98 and treatment with fumaric acid gave N methyl 4 R 2 bis S 2 hydroxy 3 phenoxypropyl amino propyl benzamide, fumarate as a semi solid. A mixture of methyl 4 R 2 N R 2 hydroxy 2 phenethyl amino propyl benzoate 0.73 g and S phenoxymethyloxirane 0.35 g was heated under reflux in ethanol for 48h. The solvent was evaporated and the residue chromatographed on kieselgel. Elution with chloroform gave an oil which was treated with ethereal hydrogen chloride to give methyl 4 R 2 N R 2 hydroxy 2 phenethyl N S 2 hydroxy 3 phenoxypropyl amino propyl benzoate, hydrochloride, monohydrate, m.p. 90 95 C ethylacetate ether , α 25 D MeOH 96.3 . Methyl 4 R 2 N R 2 hydroxy 2 phenethyl N R 2 hydroxy 3 phenoxypropyl amino propyl benzoate hydrochloride, m.p. 70 75 C ether methanol , α 25 D MEOH 48.1 was prepared in an identical manner to the compound described in Example 4 but replacing S phenoxymethyloxirane by its R enantiomer. ¹H nmr d₆ DMSO , free base, ppm Methyl 4 R 2 N R 2 hydroxy 2 phenethyl N S 2 hydroxy 3 phenoxypropyl amino propyl benzoate 0.4 g was dissolved in methanolic methylamine and heated at 100 C in an autoclave for 18h. The solvent was evaporated and the residue was chromatographed on kieselgel. Elution with methanol chloroform 4 96 gave N methyl 4 R 2 N R 2 hydroxy 2 phenethyl N S 2 hydroxy 3 phenoxypropyl amino propyl benzamide, m.p. 52 58 C ether hexane , α 25 D MeOH 59.6 . N methyl 4 R 2 N R 2 hydroxy 2 phenethyl N R 2 hydroxy 3 phenoxypropyl amino propyl benzamide, m.p. 52 58 C ether hexane , α 25 D MeOH 76.4 was prepared in an analogous manner to the compound of Example 6 but using the RRR enantiomer. A mixture of R ,R methyl 4 N 2 3 chlorophenyl 2 hydroxyethyl aminopropyl phenoxyacetate 0.94 g and phenoxymethyloxirane 0.37 g was heated under reflux in ethanol 100 ml for 4 days. The solvent was evaporated and the residue chromatographed on kieselgel. Elution with chloroform gave an oil which was dissolved in methanolic ammonia and allowed to stand at ambient temperature for 18h. The solvent was evaporated and the residue chromatographed on kieselgel. Elution with methanol chloroform 1 99 and treatment of the product with ethereal hydrogen chloride gave 4 2 N 2 3 chlorophenyl 2 hydroxyethyl N 2 hydroxy 3 phenoxypropyl amino propyl 3 phenoxyacetamide, hydrochloride, m.p. 177 185 C ether methanol . A mixture of R ,R methyl 4 N 2 hydroxy 2 4 hydroxy 3 hydroxymethylphenyl ethyl aminopropyl benzoate 2.0 g and phenoxymethyloxirane 0.84 g was heated under reflux in ethanol 100 ml for 45h. The solvent was evaporated and the residue chromatographed on kieselgel. Elution with methanol chloroform 4 96 gave after trituration with ether petrol methyl 4 2 N 2 hydroxy 2 4 hydroxy 3 hydroxymethylphenyl ethyl N 2 hydroxy 3 phenoxypropyl amino propyl benzoate, m.p. 38 50 C. 4 Amino 3,5 dichloro phenacyl bromide 0.41 g in acetonitrile 20 ml was added dropwise to a stirred solution of methyl 4 R 2 S 2 hydroxy 3 phenoxypropyl amino propyl benzoate 0.5 g and triethylamine 0.5 g in acetonitrile 80 ml under reflux. The mixture was stirred and heated under reflux for 20h. The solvent was evaporated, chloroform added and triethylamine hydrobromide filtered off. The residue was chromatographed on kieselgel. Elution with chloroform gave the aminoacetophenone which was reduced with sodium borohydride in methanol at ambient temperature. The solvent was evaporated, the residue partitioned between ethyl acetate and water and the organic layer dried and evaporated. The residue was chromatographed on kieselgel. Elution with chloroform gave methyl 4 R 2 N 2 4 amino 3,5 dichlorophenyl 2 hydroxyethyl N S 2 hydroxy 3 phenoxypropyl amino propyl benzoate, m.p. 40 49 C ether hexane . A mixture of R A mixture of 4 R 3 N R 2 hydroxy 2 phenethyl amino butyl benzamide 0.2 g and S phenoxymethyloxirane was heated under reflux in ethanol for 4 days. The solvent was evaporated and the residue chromatographed on kieselgel. Elution with methanol chloroform 2 98 gave 4 R 3 N R 2 hydroxy 2 phenethyl N S 2 hydroxy 3 phenoxypropyl amino butyl benzamide, m.p. 95.5 97 C ethyl acetate diisopropyl ether , α 25 D MeOH 46.1 . A mixture Of 4 R 2 aminopropyl phenoxyacetamide 0.19 g and S phenoxymethyl oxirane 0.28 g was heated under reflux in ethanol for 48 hours. The solvent was evaporated and the residue chromatographed on silica. Elution with methanol chloroform 3 97 gave an oil which was treated with ethereal hydrogen chloride to give 4 R 2 Bis S 2 hydroxy 3 phenoxypropyl amino propyl phenoxyacetamide, hydrochloride, m.p. 79 82 , α 25 D MeOH 56.4 . A mixture of ethyl 4 R 2 N R 2 hydroxy 2 phenethyl amino propyl phenoxyacetate 0.43 g and S phenoxymethyl oxirane 0.18 g was heated under reflux in ethanol for 72 hours. The solvent was evaporated and the residue chromatographed on silica. Elution with chloroform gave an oil which was treated with ethereal hydrogen chloride to give ethyl 4 R 2 N R 2 hydroxy 2 phenethyl N S 2 hydroxy 3 phenoxypropyl amino propyl phenoxyacetate, hydrochloride, m.p. 48 52 , α 25 D MeOH 78.7 . A mixture of 4 R 2 N R 2 hydroxy 2 phenethyl amino propyl phenoxyacetamide 1.1 g and S phenoxymethyl oxirane 0.55 g was heated under reflux for 72 hours in ethanol. The solvent was evaporated and the residual oil was chromatographed on silica. Elution with methanol chloroform 2 98 gave a gum which was treated with ethereal hydrogen chloride to give 4 R 2 N R 2 hydroxy 2 phenethyl N S 2 hydroxy 3 phenoxypropyl amino propyl phenoxyacetamide, hydrochloride, hemihydrate, m.p. 85 89 , ethyl acetate ether . Ethyl 4 R 2 bis S 2 hydroxy 3 phenoxypropyl amino propyl phenoxyacetate, hydrochloride, hemihydrate was prepared by an analogous procedure to that described in Example 13 but replacing 4 R 2 aminopropyl phenoxyacetamide by methyl 4 R 2 aminopropyl phenoxyacetate. Ethyl 4 R 2 N R 2 3 chlorophenyl 2 hydroxyethyl N S 2 hydroxy 3 phenoxypropyl amino propyl phenoxyacetate, hemifumarate, m.p. 48 52 , was prepared by an analogous procedure to that described in Example 14 but replacing ethyl 4 R 2 N R 2 hydroxy 2 phenethyl amino propyl phenoxyacetate by ethyl 4 R 2 N R 2 3 chlorophenyl 2 hydroxyethyl amino propyl phenoxyacetate. 4 R 2 N R 2 3 Chlorophenyl 2 hydroxyethyl N S 2 hydroxy 3 phenoxypropyl amino propyl phenoxyacetamide, hydrochloride, hemihydrate α 25 D MeoH 77.4 , was prepared by an analogous procedure to that described in Example 15 but replacing 4 R 2 N R 2 hydroxy 2 phenethyl amino propyl phenoxyacetamide by 4 R 2 N R 2 3 chlorophenyl 2 hydroxyethyl amino propyl phenoxyacetamide. Borane methyl sulphide complex 0.32 g in dry tetrahydrofuran 5 ml was added in a dropwise manner, under a nitrogen atmosphere, to a stirred solution of 4 R 2 N R 2 hydroxy 2 phenethyl N S 2 hydroxy 3 phenoxypropyl amino propyl phenoxyacetamide 1 g in dry tetrahydrofuran 30 ml . The reaction mixture was stirred and heated under reflux for 17 hours, cooled, treated with methanol 2.5 ml and heated for a further hour. Hydrogen chloride was bubbled through the cooled solution. The solvent was evaporated and the residual oil was partitioned between 2N sodium hydroxide solution and dichloromethane. The organic layer was washed with water, dried MgSO₄ and evaporated, to an oil which was purified by column chromatography on silica. Elution with methanol chloroform 6 94 gave a colourless oil which was treated with ethereal hydrogen chloride to give 4 R 2 N R 2 hydroxy 2 phenethyl N S 2 hydroxy 3 phenoxypropyl amino propyl phenoxyethylamine, dihydrochloride, hydrate as a crystalline solid, m.p. 99 103 methanol ethylacetate . Ethyl 4 R 3 N R 2 hydroxy 2 phenethyl N S 2 hydroxy 3 phenoxypropyl amino butyl phenoxyacetate, hydrochloride was prepared by an analogous procedure to that described in Example 14 but replacing ethyl 4 R 2 N R 2 hydroxy 2 phenethyl amino propyl phenoxyacetate by ethyl 4 R 3 N R 2 hydroxy 2 phenethyl amino butyl phenoxyacetate. 4 R 2 N R 2 Hydroxy 2 phenethyl N S 2 hydroxy 3 phenoxypropyl amino propyl phenoxyethanol, hydrochloride, hemihydrate, m.p. 68 73 , was prepared by an analogous procedure to that described in Example 14 but replacing ethyl 4 R 2 N R 2 hydroxy 2 phenethyl amino propyl phenoxyacetate by 4 R 2 N R 2 hydroxy 2 phenethyl amino propyl phenoxyethanol. Ethyl 4 R 2 N R 2 hydroxy 2 phenethyl N R 2 hydroxy 3 phenoxypropyl amino propyl phenoxyacetate, hydrochloride, m.p. 49 52 , was prepared by an analogous procedure to that described in Example 14 but replacing S phenoxymethyloxirane by R phenoxymethyloxirane. A mixture of methyl 4 R 2 N R 2 hydroxy 2 phenethyl amino propyl phenoxyacetate 0.85 g and S phenoxymethyl oxirane 0.37 g was heated under reflux in methanol 50 ml for 52 hours. The solvent was evaporated and the residue chromatographed on silica. Elution with chloroform gave an oil which was treated with ethereal hydrogen chloride to give methyl 4 R 2 N R 2 hydroxy 2 phenethyl N S 2 hydroxy 3 phenoxypropyl amino propyl phenoxyacetate hydrochloride hemihydrate, m.p. 58 62 . 4 R 2 N R 2 Hydroxy 2 phenethyl N S 2 hydroxy 3 phenoxypropyl amino propoxy phenoxyacetamide, hydrochloride, m.p. 81 86 ethyl acetate ether , was prepared by an analogous procedure to that described in Example 14 but replacing ethyl 4 R 2 N R 2 hydroxy 2 phenethyl amino propyl phenoxyacetate by 4 R 2 N R 2 hydroxy 2 phenethyl amino propoxy phenoxyacetamide. Ethyl 4 R 2 N 2 2 benzofuranyl 2 hydroxyethyl N S 2 hydroxy 3 phenoxypropyl amino propyl phenoxyacetate, hydrochloride, m.p. 56 60 , was prepared by an analogous procedure to that described in Example 14 but replacing ethyl 4 R 2 N R 2 hydroxy 2 phenethyl amino propyl phenoxyacetate by ethyl 4 R 2 N 2 2 benzofuranyl 2 hydroxyethyl amino propyl phenoxyacetate. Ethyl 4 R 2 N R 2 hydroxy 2 phenethyl N 2 2 benzofuranyl 2 hydroxyethyl amino propyl phenoxyacetate hydrochloride, m.p. 65 70 , was prepared by an analogous procedure to that described in Example 14 but replacing S phenoxymethyloxirane by 2 benzofuranyloxirane. A solution of 4 R 2 N R 2 4 benzyloxyphenyl 2 hydroxyethyl N R 2 hydroxy 3 phenoxypropyl amino propyl phenoxyacetamide 0.1 g in ethyl acetate 60 ml was hydrogenated at ambient temperature and pressure over 10 palladium on carbon until the theoretical amount of hydrogen was absorbed. The mixture was filtered through celite, evaporated and the residual oil chromatographed on silica. Elution with methanol chloroform 2 98 gave 4 R 2 N R 2 hydroxy 2 4 hydroxyphenyl ethyl N R 2 hydroxy 3 phenoxypropyl amino propyl phenoxyacetamide as a colourless oil. A mixture of methyl 4 2 N 2 4 amino 3,5 dichlorophenyl 2 hydroxyethyl amino propyl phenoxyacetate 1.0 g and phenoxymethyloxirane 0.35 g gas heated under reflux in methanol 80 ml for 40 hours. The solvent was evaporated and the residue chromatographed on silica. Elution with chloroform gave a colourless oil which was treated with a methanolic solution of fumaric acid to give methyl 4 2 N 2 4 amino 3,5 dichlorophenyl 2 hydroxyethyl N 2 hydroxy 3 phenoxypropyl amino propyl phenoxyacetate, hemifumarate as a white solid, m.p. 65 72 ether . A mixture of 4 2 N 2 4 amino 3,5 dichlorophenyl 2 hydroxyethyl amino propyl phenoxyacetamide 0.54 g and phenoxymethyloxirane 0.2 g in ethanol 50 ml was heated under reflux for 48 hours. The solvent was evaporated and the residue chromatographed on silica. Elution with methanol chloroform 2 98 gave 4 2 N 2 4 amino 3,5 dichlorophenyl 2 hydroxyethyl N 2 hydroxy 3 phenoxypropyl amino propyl phenoxyacetamide as a white solid, m.p. 50 60 . The following examples X1 X14 illustrate the preparation of starting materials. A solution of R phenyloxirane 1.77 g in ethanol 10 ml was added dropwise, to a stirred, refluxing solution of methyl 4 R 2 aminopropyl phenoxyacetate 3.29 g in ethanol 80 ml . The resulting solution was heated under reflux for 52 hours. The solvent was evaporated and the residual oil was chromatographed on silica gel. Elution with methanol chloroform 3 97 gave ethyl 4 R 2 N R 2 hydroxy 2 phenethyl amino propyl phenoxyacetate as a colourless oil. Ethyl 4 R 2 N R 2 3 chlorophenyl 2 hydroxyethyl amino propyl phenoxyacetate was prepared by an analogous procedure to that described in Example X1 but replacing R phenyloxirane by R 3 chlorophenyloxirane. Ammonia gas was bubbled into a solution of ethyl 4 R 2 N R 2 hydroxy 2 phenethyl amino propyl phenoxyacetate 1.45 g in methanol 50 ml . The resulting solution was allowed to stand for 18 hours and evaporated to give 4 R 2 N R 2 hydroxy 2 phenethyl amino propyl phenoxyacetamide as a white solid. 4 R 2 N R 2 3 Chlorophenyl 2 hydroxyethyl amino propyl phenoxyacetamide was prepared by an analogous procedure to that described in Example X1 but replacing ethyl 4 R 2 N R 2 hydroxy 2 phenethyl amino propyl phenoxyacetate by ethyl 4 R 2 N R 2 3 chlorophenyl 2 hydroxyethyl amino propyl phenoxyacetate. The title compound was prepared by an analogous procedure to that described in Example X1 but replacing R phenyloxirane by 2 benzofuranyl oxirane. Ethyl 4 R 3 N R 2 hydroxy 2 phenethyl amino butyl phenoxyacetate was prepared by an analogous procedure to that described in Example X1 but replacing methyl 4 R 2 aminopropyl phenoxyacetate by methyl 4 R 3 aminobutyl phenoxyacetate. A mixture of R phenyloxirane 0.86 g and methyl 4 R 2 aminopropyl phenoxyacetate 1.6 g in dimethylsulphoxide 40 ml was stirred and heated at 95 C for 24 hours. The reaction mixture was poured into water 100 ml and extracted into chloroform. The organic layer was washed with water, dried MgSO₄ and evaporated to an oil which was chromatographed on silica. Elution with methanol chloroform 4 96 gave methyl 4 R 2 N R 2 hydroxy 2 phenethyl amino propyl phenoxyacetate as an oil. Dicyclohexylcarbodiimide 1.1 g in dry dimethyl formamide was added to a stirred solution of 1 hydroxybenzotriazole 0.73 g , R mandelic acid 0.82 g and methyl 4 R 2 aminopropyl phenoxyacetate 1.2 g in dry dimethyl formamide at 0 . The mixture was allowed to stand at ambient temperature for 20 hours. The solvent was evaporated, the residue taken up in ethyl acetate and filtered. The filtrate was washed successively with sodium carbonate solution, 2N hydrochloric acid, sodium carbonate, water x 2 , dried MgSO₄ , filtered and evaporated to a gum which was chromatographed on silica. Elution with chloroform gave N 4 carbomethoxymethoxyphenyl 2 R propyl R mandelamide. Borane dimethyl sulphide 1.15 g was added under nitrogen to a stirred solution of the above material 1.36 g in dry tetrahydrofuran and the mixture was heated under reflux for 22 hours. The solution was cooled, methanol 3 ml added and the solution stirred and heated under reflux for one hour. Dry hydrogen chloride was bubbled through the cooled solution, the solvent was evaporated and the residue was partitioned between 2N sodium hydroxide and ethyl acetate. The organic layer was separated, dried MgSO₄ and evaporated to give an oil which was chromatographed on silica. Elution with methanol chloroform 2 98 gave 4 R 2 N R 2 hydroxy 2 phenethyl amino propyl phenoxyethanol as a colourless oil. A mixture of d α methylbenzylamine 5.23 g and methyl 4 acetonylphenoxyacetate 9.6 g in dry benzene was heated under reflux with azeotropic removal of water for 5 hours. The solvent was evaporated, the residue taken up in methanol and hydrogenated over Raney Nickel at 60 psi and ambient temperature for 48 hours. The reaction mixture was filtered through Celite and evaporated to an oil which was dissolved in ether and treated with hydrogen chloride until no further solid precipitated. The solid was filtered and recrystallised from ether benzene to give methyl 4 R 2 R 1 phenethylamino propyl phenoxyacetate hydrochloride as a white solid, m.p. 168 173 . A methanolic solution of this hydrochloride 3.3 g was hydrogenated over 10 palladium on carbon at 50 psi and 50 for 8 hours. The mixture was filtered, evaporated and the residue recrystallised from ethylacetate to give methyl 4 R 2 aminopropyl phenoxyacetate hydrochloride, m.p. 147 , α 25 D H₂O 13.6 . Methyl 4 R 3 aminobutyl phenoxyacetate hydrochloride, m.p. 112 116 , α 25 D MeOH 6.2 was prepared by an analogous procedure to that described in Example X9, but replacing methyl 4 acetonyl phenoxyacetate by methyl 4 3 oxobutyl phenoxyacetate. 4 R 2 Aminopropoxy phenoxyacetamide hydrochloride, m.p. 187 190 , α 25 D MeOH 14.7 was prepared by an analogous procedure to that described in Example X9, but replacing methyl 4 acetonylphenoxyacetate by 4 acetonyloxyphenoxyacetamide. Ethyl 4 R 2 N R 2 4 benzyloxyphenyl 2 hydroxyethyl amino propyl phenoxyacetamide was prepared by an analogous procedure to that described in Example X7 but replacing R phenyloxirane by R 4 benzyloxy phenyloxirane. 4 R 2 N R 2 4 Benzyloxyphenyl 2 hydroxyethyl amino propyl phenoxyacetamide was prepared from ethyl 4 R 2 N R 2 4 benzyloxy phenyl 2 hydroxyethyl amino propyl phenoxyacetate by an analogous procedure to that described in Example X3. 4 R 2 N R 2 4 Benzyloxyphenyl 2 hydroxyethyl N R 2 hydroxy 3 phenoxypropyl amino propyl phenoxyacetamide was prepared from R phenoxymethyloxirane and 4 R 2 N R 2 4 benzyloxyphenyl 2 hydroxyethyl amino propyl phenoxyacetamide by the method described in Example 14. Female BALB c mice were trained to feed on powdered oxoid for 1 week. They were then housed in threes and the compound under study was added to the diet for 3 days. Food was removed at 09.00h and the mice were killed at 11.00h. The parametrial fat pads were weighed as pairs. The result is a mean of 9 values. The effect of the compounds on the energy expenditure of mice was demonstrated by means of the following procedure Female CD1 mice each weighing approximately 24 g were given food and water The effect of the compounds on the energy expenditure of rats was demonstrated by means of the following procedure Male Sprague Dawley rats each weighing between 170 200 g were deprived of food for 16 hours before, and during the experiment. Water was provided Female CFLP mice, weighing approximately 25 g, were fasted for 24 hours prior to the study. The compounds under study were administered orally as an aqueous solution to each of 6 mice. 30 minutes later a blood sample 20 µl was obtained from the tail for the analysis of blood glucose. Immediately after taking this blood sample, glucose 1 g kg body weight was administered subcutaneously to each mouse. 6 mice were given water as a control. Blood samples were then obtained from each mouse at 30 minute intervals for 120 minutes. Compounds that produced a significant p 0.05 reduction of blood glucose, compared with control mice given water, at any time interval, were considered active. The area under the blood glucose curve over the 2 hour period after the administration of the glucose was calculated for each compound and compared with the value for control animals. Sprague Dawley male rats 300 400 g are killed and the right and left atria dissected out independently and mounted on a combined tissue holder electrode. The tissues are then immersed in a glass bath containing Krebs solution maintained at 32 C. The rate of the spontaneously beating right atrium via an isometric tranducer and a ratemeter and the tension of the electrically paced left atrium via an isometric transducer are recorded on an M19 chart recorder. After an initial stabilization period, the tissues are exposed to a maximal concentration of isoprenaline 10 ⁶M . The tissues are then washed several times until rate and tension return to baseline level. A dose response curve to the test compound is then carried out. Compounds of Example Nos. 1, 4, 8, 13 and 14 had no effect on rate or tension up to 3x10 ⁵M.