# Bumper.

## Abstract
Bumper comprising an oblong tubular plastic body, the tubular body 1 having inner ribs 5 perpendicular to the axis of the tubular body and, if needed, longitudinal ribs 6 , connecting ribs 5.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Bumper comprising an oblong tubular plastic body, characterized in that the inner wall of the tubular body has circumferential ribs placed at intervals, each of which ribs is situated in a plane substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the tubular body. 2. Bumper according to claim 1, characterized in that the circumferen tial ribs are connected by connecting ribs. 3. Plastic bumper according to claim 2, characterized in that the con necting ribs extend substantially into the direction of the longitu dinal axis of the tubular body.

## Description
BUMPER The invention relates to a bumper comprising an oblong tubular plastic body. Such a bumper is known from DE A 2708856. The production of bumpers from plastic has assumed large proportions in the past decade. The advantages offered by plastic compared with metal, as well as general information about plastic bumpers, are described, inter alia, in the magazine Plastverarbeiter 34, 1983, numbers 10 and 12, respectively pages 1128 and 1479. The automotive industry imposes certain standards of attainment in respect of bumpers. Car bumpers are usually tested for their mechanical strength by means of a standardized test method, for instanceECE 42. Here it essentially concerns a collision test in which a bumper is subjected to a load between the suspension points and in which the bumper is then required under a certain load not to show any lasting deformation while no damage can be caused to the bodywork at a certain distance behind the bumper. So far its design has been such that, in a collision, a bumper will breathe as it is called, which means that its cross section perpendicular to its longitudinal direction will deform before possibly being bent completely. Here it is the intention for the bumper body already to absorb energy through the sectional deformation alone and, possibly, to bend through only after that. This kind of energy absorption can be further increased, as known in the art, by providing the cavity in the bumper with an energy absorbing interior, such as foam, honeycomb blocks and ribs. Such systems are described in US A 4072334 and DE A 2,331,450. It has been found that the plastic bumpers known so far require a fair amount of usually not inexpensive plastic in order that they may pass the standard test. The invention aims at reducing the amount of plastic required for a plastic bumper complying with a standard test. The invention is based on the insight that the standard specifications may be complied with also by consciously refraining from achieving energy absorption through sectional deformation and by having the energy absorption substantially achieved by exclusively the deflection of the whole bumper body while maintaining the original sectional shape. The most effective embodiment of a bumper according to the insight underlying the invention can be obtained by providing the inner wall of the oblong hollow tubular body at intervals with circumferential ribs, each of which circumferential ribs is situated in a plane substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the bumper body. In order to prevent the circumferential ribs from being buckled under the load, connecting ribs may be provided between the circumferential ribs. Using Åa bumper designed according to the concept described, in which an optimum equilibrium can be employed between the amounts of wall and rib material through strength calculations known in the art, a substantial saving on materials can be achieved, or a much stronger bumper can be produced with the same amount of material. The importance of the invention will be shown in the following embodiment according to the invention while referring to an embodiment of a bumper body represented in the drawing. In the drawing fig. 1 is a longitudinal section of a tubular bumper body according to the invention and fig. 2 a cross section along line Il Il in fig. 1. In figures 1 and 2 sections are shown of part of a hollow tubular bumper body which in this case has a rectangular section with short sides 1 and long sides 2. The bumper has a continuous cavity 3. On inner wall 4 there are circumferential ribs 5 in a plane perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the body. These ribs 5 can be connected by ribs 6, which have been drawn in figure 2, for reasons of clearness, in a few places only. The bumper body may be built up of two injection moulded parts interconnected by means of weld 7 fig. 2 . The figures only provide a diagrammatic representation of a tubular bumper body. The bumper body may have a bent longitudinal axis, while the cross section is usually not rectangular, but adjusted to the design of, for instance, the bodywork of a vehicle.However, whatever the shape of the cross section may be, it is always possible to provide ribs 5, or a pattern of ribs as formed by, for instance, ribs 5 and 6. Even though the basic section is not optimal for preventing sectional deformation under load, by doing a strength calculation the chosen optimum wall thickness, rib thickness, rib distance and rib height may always be such as to prevent the sectional shape from being changed during the bending under the influence of the impact load according to the standard test and the rigidity from being adversely affected by it. The rigidity of a bumper, e.g., whose short sides bulge out under the influence of a force A in fig. 2 would decrease substantially, so that the resulting deflection would be too high and exceed a given maximum distance.ExampleExperiment A A bumper body with rectangular cross section consisting of a plastic with an elastic modulus of 1200 has a wall thickness of 7 mm.The outside dimensions are 80 mm x 150 mm. The bumper body is secured to two suspension points situated 1000 mm apart on a freely movable vehicle placed in horizontal position and weighing 1000 kg. The tall side of the bumper body is in a vertical position. With an impact weight of 1000 kg at a rate of 4 km h exerted between the suspension points it is found that the deflection is 60 mm. Experiment B The experiment of Experiment A is repeated using a bumper body produced from the same plastic, but this time with a wall thickness of 4 mm and provided according to the invention with circumferential ribs.The ribs are 4 mm thick and 16 mm high.The ribs are placed at intervals of 50 mm.Using this design a reduction in weight of about 20 Z has been achieved on the bumper of Experiment A. The deflection measured during the impact load is 60 mm. Experiments A and B of the example show the importance of the invention. By abandoning the idea that the bumper body must first be compressed as a kind of cushion substantial economies can now be achieved on materials.