# An asymmetrically modified boron hydride type compound, a production method thereof, and a method for producing an optically active alcohol derivative by the use thereof.

## Abstract
An asymmetrically modified borohydride type com pound is obtained by reacting an optically active amino alcohol of the formula

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. An asymmetrically modified boron hydride type compound obtained by reacting an optically active amino alcohol of the formula EMI26.1 wherein R1 is a lower alkyl group, R2 is a hydrogen atom, a lower alkoxyl group or a lower alkyl group, and a mark means an asymmetric carbon with the proviso that R2 is not an ethoxy group when R1 is an ethyl group, or its salt with an acid selected from the group consisting of mineral acids, carboxylic acids and organic sulfonic acids with a boron hydride compound. 2. A compound according to Claim 1, wherein, in the above formula I , R1 is a methyl group or an ethyl group and R2 is a hydrogen atom, a methoxy group or a methyl group. 3. A compound according to Claim 1 or 2, wherein the borohydride compound is a metal borohydride. 4. A compound according to Claim 3, wherein the metal borohydride is sodium borohydride, potassim borohydride, lithium borohydride or zinc borohydride. 5. A compound according to Claim 3 or 4, wherein the molar ratio of the salt of the optically active amino alcohol to the metal borohydride is 1 0.7 to 1 1.3, as converted to boron basis. 6. A compound according to Claim 1 or 2, wherein the boron hydride compound is a borane. 7. A compound according to Claim 6, wherein the molar ratio of the optically active amino alcohol to the borane is 1 0.7 to 1 1.3, as converted to boron basis. 8. A method for producing an asymmetrically modified boron hydride type compound characterized in that an optically active amino alcohol of the formula EMI27.1 wherein R1 is a lower alkyl group, R2 is a hydrogen atom, a lower alkoxyl group or a lower alkyl group, and a mark means an asymmetric carbon with the proviso that R2 is not an ethoxy group when R1 is an ethyl group, or its salt with an acid selected from the group consisting of mineral acids, carboxylic acids and organic sulfonic acids is reacted with a boron hydride compound. 9. A method according to Claim 8, wherein, in the above formula I , R1 is a methyl group or an ethyl group and R2 is a hydrogen atom, a methoxy group or a methyl group. 10. A method according to Claim 8 or 9, wherein the boron hydride compound is a metal borohydride. 11. A method according to Claim 10, wherein the metal borohydride is sodium borohydride, potassium borohydride, lithium borohydride or zinc borohydride. 12. A method according to Claim 10 or 11, wherein the molar ratio of the salt of the optically active amino alcohol to the metal borohydride is 1 0.7 to 1 1.3, as converted to boron basis. 13. A method according to Claim 8 or 9, wherein the boron hydride compound is a borane. 14. A method according to Claim 13, wherein the molar ratio of the optically active amino alcohol to the borane is 1 0.7 to 1 1.3, as convertd to boron basis. 15. A method for producing an optically active alcohol derivative of the formula EMI28.1 wherein R3 is a cycloalkyl group or a phenyl group which may be substituted with at least one of halogen, a mark means an asymmetric carbon, characterized in that the asymmetric reduction of a ketone compound of the formula EMI29.1 wherein R3 has the same meaning as above, is carried out with an asymmetrically modified boron hydride type compound obtained by reacting an optically active amino alcohol of the formula EMI29.2 wherein R1 is a lower alkyl group, R2 is a hydrogen atom, a lower alkoxyl group or a lower alkyl group, and a mark has the same meaning as above with the proviso that R2 is not an ethoxy group when R1 is an ethyl group, or its salt with an acid selected from the group consisting of mineral acids, carboxylic acids and organic sulfonic acids with a boron hydride compound in the presence or absence of an acid. 16. A method according to Claim 15, wherein, in the above formulae II and III , R3 is a 2,4dichlorophenyl, 4 chlorophenyl or cyclohexyl group. 17. A method according to Claim 15 or 16, wherein, in the above formula I , R1 is a methyl group or an ethyl group and R2 is a hydrogen atom, a methoxy group or a methyl group. 18. A method according to any of Claims 15 to 17, wherein the boron hydride compound is a metal borohydride. 19. A method according to Claim 18, wherein the metal borohydride is sodium borohydride, potassium borohydride, lithium borohydride or zinc borohydride. 20. A method according to Claim 18 or 19, wherein the molar ratio of the salt of the optically active amino alcohol to the metal borohydride is 1 0.7 to 1 1.3, as converted to boron basis. 21. A method according to any of Claims 15 to 17, wherein the boron hydride compound is a borane. 22. A method according to Claim 21, wherein the molar ratio of the optically active amino alcohol to the borane is 1 0.7 to 1 1.3, as converted to boron basis. 23. A method according to Claim 18, 19 or 20, wherein the asymmetric reduction is carried out in the presence of an acid. 24. A method according to Claim 23, wherein the acid is a Lewis acid, organic acid or mineral acid.

## Description
AN ASYMMETRICALLY MODIFIED BORON HYDRIDE TYPE COMPOUND, A PRODUCTION METHOD THEREOF, AND A METHOD FOR PRODUCINGAN OPTICALLY ACTIVE ALCOHOL DERIVATIVE BY THE USE THEREOF The present invention relates to an asymmetrically modified boron hydride type compound, its production method and a method for producing an optically active alcohol derivative using the compound.More particularly, it relates to an asymmetrically modified boron hydride type compound obtained by reacting an optically active amino alcohol of the formula EMI1.1 wherein R1 is a lower alkyl group, R2 is a hydrogen atom, a lower alkoxyl group or a lower alkyl group and a mark means an asymmetric carbon with the proviso thatR2 is not an ethoxy group when R1 is an ethyl group, or its salt with an acid, with a boron hydride compound its production method and a method for producing an optically active alcohol derivative of the formula EMI2.1 wherein R3 is a cycloalkyl group or a phenyl group which may be substituted with at least one of halogen and a mark has the same meaning as above, by carrying out the asymmetric reduction of a ketone compound of the formula EMI2.2 wherein R3 has the same meaning as above, with said asymmetrically modified boron hydride type compound. The alcohol derivative of the above formula II , i.e. an azole type a unsaturated alcohol derivative is known to be useful as an active ingredient for fungicides, plant growth regulators or herbicides, as represented for example by 1 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl i penten 3 ol, 1 4 chlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl 1 penten 3 ol and l cyclohexyl 2 1,2 4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl l penten 3 ol Japanese Patent Application Kokai Laid open No. 124771 1980, 25105 1981 and 111477 19803.And, it is also well known that there is a remarkable difference in the activity between the optical isomers, and that, for example, with reference to the foregoing alcohol derivatives the isomer has a strong activity as fungicides, while the isomer has a strong activity as plant growth regulators and herbicides Japanese Patent Application Kokai Laidopen Nos. 99575 1982, 106669 1982, 139370 1983 and 139371 19823. The biological activities of the abovedescribed optical isomers can be enhanced by raising their optical purities, whereby the amounts of chemicals to be applied can be decreased to effect the prevention of the environment. For example, when the abovedescribed alcohol derivatives are used as fungicides, a high optical purity of isomer becomes necessary because of phytotoxicity caused by a plant growth regulating activity of isomer. For this reason, there is a great demand for the development of a method to produce either one of the or optical isomer having an extremely high optical purity according to intended uses and yet with a good efficiency in industry. As the method for reducing the carbonyl group of ketone compounds of the above formula III into alcohol compounds, of the above formula II , there is a method using asymmetrically modified borohydride compounds PCT International Application No. PCT JP84 00161 . The present inventors extensively studied a method for obtaining more optically pure alcohol derivative of the formula II by the asymmetric reduction of the ketone compound of the above formula III , and as a result, found that, by using an asymmetrically modified boron hydride compound hereinafter referred to ds present compound obtained by reacting the optically active amino alcohol of the above formula I having a 2 alkoxyl group in the phenyl group thereof or its salt with an acid with a boron hydride compound, only the carbonyl group is selectively reduced into the objective optically active alcohol derivative in a high optical yield. Next, the present invention will be illustrated. In the optically active amino alcohol of the above formula I , a material for the present compound, specific examples of a substitutent R1 include a methyl group, an ethyl group or a propyl group. Specific examples of R2 include a hydrogen atom, a methoxy group, an ethoxy group, a propoxy group, a methyl group, an ethyl group or a tert butyl group. More specifically, as the optically active amino alcohol of the formula I , there may be given l 2,5 dimethoxyphenyl 2 amino .l propanol, l 2,5 dipropoxyphenyl 2 amino 1 propanol, l 2 methoxyphenyl 2 amino l propanol, 1 2ethoxyphenyl 2 amino l propanol, 1 2 propoxyphenyl 2 amino l propanol, l 2 methoxy 5 methylphenyl 2 amino l propanol, l 2 methoxy 5 ethylphenyl 2 amino lpropanol and l 2 ethoxy 5 methylphenyl 2 amino lpropanol. These optically active amino alcohols are produced, for example, by the methods described in W.H.Hartung, et al., J. Am. Chem. Soc., 52, 3317 22 1930 W.H. Hartung, et al., J. Am. Chem. Soc., 53, 4149 60 1931 R. Baltzly, et al., J. Med., 11 4 , 833 44 1968 USP 2,359,707, Japanese Patent Application Kokai Laid open No. 39648 1983, and the like. In the present invention, the halogen atom represents fluorine atom, chlorine atom or bromine atom. Next, reference will be made to a method for producing the present compound. The present compound, when the boron hydride compound is a metal borohydride, is obtained by reacting a salt, as obtained from the optically active amino alcohol of the formula I and an acid, with the metal borohydride in a solvent, or when the boron hydride compound is a borane, it is obtained by directly reacting the optically active amino alcohol of the formula I with the borane in a solvent. As the foregoing acid which is a material for producing the salt of the optically active amino alcohol, there are given mineral acids e.g. hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid, nitric acid, phosphoric acid , carboxylic acids e.g. acetic acid , organic sulfonic acids e.g. ptoluenesulfonic acid and the like.Said salt may be used as such or may b produced, in situ, from the optically active amino alcohol and the acid in the reaction system for producing the present reducing agent. As the metal borohydride described above, there are given f6r example sodium borohydride, potassium borohydride, lithium borohydride, zinc borohydride, etc. Generally, however, the object of the present invention can sufficiently be achieved by using easily available sodium borohydride. As the borane, for example diborane, borane tetrahydrofuran complex, borane dimethyl sulfide complex, etc. may be given. In production of the present compound, the molar ratio of the boron hydride compound to the optically active amino alcohol is, when said compound is a metal borohydride, 0.7 1 to 2 1, preferably 0.7 1 to 1.3 1, more preferably 1 to 1, as converted to boron basis, and when said compound is a borane, said molar ratio is 0.7 1 to 1.3 1, preferably 1 to 1. The solvent used in poroducing the present compound is not particularly limited, so long as it does not take part in the reaction. For example, however, there are given aromatic hydrocarbons e.g. benzene, toluene, xylene, chlorobenzene , halogenated hydrocarbons e.g. methylene chloride, 1,2dichloroethane, chloroform, carbon tetrachloride , and mixtures thereof. When the metal borohydride is used, in order to dissolve it, for example dimethyl sulfoxide, diglyme, dimethylformamide, l,3 dimethyl 2imidazolidinone or the like may be used in combination.The reaction temperature is generally within a range of 780 to 100 , preferably 40 to 50or. The reaction is generally carried out in an inert gas atmosphere such as nitrogen, argon, etc. The present compound thus obtained may be used for the subsequent reduction after separated from the reaction solution, but generally, it is used as the solution without being separated therefrom. Next, reference will be made to a method for producing the optically active alcohol derivative of the above formula II by reduction of the ketone compound of the above formula III using the present compound thus obtained. The amount of the present compound used in the reduction is not less than 0.5 mole, generally within a range of 1 to 5 moles, as converted to boron basis, based on 1 mole of the ketone compound of the formula III , and even the range of 1 to 2 moles can sufficiently achieve the object. Also, the solvent used in the foregoing reduction is not particularly limited, so long as it is an inactive solvent. Preferably, however, organic solvents such as aromatic hydrocarbons e.g. benzene, toluene, xylene, chlorobenzene , halogenated hydrocarbons e.g. methylene chloride, 1,2dichloroethane, chloroform, carbon tetrachloride , ethers e.g. diethyl ether, tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, diglyme and mixtures thereof are used. Also, the solvent used in producing the present compound may be used as it is or in mixture with the solvents described above. The reduction is generally carried out in an inert gas atmosphere as described above. The temperature of the reduction is generally within a range of 30 to 100or, and industrially within a range of 100 to 500C. The foregoing reduction may be carried out in the presence of an acid, and particularly when sodium borohydride is used as a material for the present compound, isomerization between the E form and Z form of the ketone compound of the above formula I is inhibited, whereby the yield of the objective optically active alcohol derivative can be increased. As the acid, there are given for example Lewis acids e.g.titanium tetrachloride, boron trifluoride etherate, aluminum chloride , carboxylic acids e.g. acetic acid, chloroacetic acid, propionic acid and mineral acids e.g. hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid, phosphoric acid The molar ratio of these acids to the ketone compound is generally within a range of 0.01 1 to 1 1, preferably 0.01 1 to 0.5 1. After the reduction is carried out in this way, the aqueous solution of a mineral acid e.g. hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid is generally added to the reaction solution, the organic layer is separated from the aqueous layer, washed with water and dried, and then the organic solvent is removed by evaporation. By this procedure, the objective aforementioned optically active alcohol derivative of the formula II is obtained in a high yield. The optical purity is determined by measuring the optical rotation of the product obtained, or directly measuring the enantiomer ratio by highperformance liquid chromatography with optically active packing materials. Hereupon, the optically active amino alcohol used can easily be recovered, with its steric configuration maintained, by adding an aqueous alkali solution to the aqueous layer after the reaction and extracting with an organic solvent. The recovered optically active amino alcohol can be re used.Example 1 In a nitrogen atmosphere, 0.223 g 0.9 mmole of l 2,5 dimethoxyphenyl 2 amino 1 propanol hydrochlroide was suspended in 2.5 ml of deutero chloroform, and after cooling to 30 C, a solution of 0.034 g 0.9 mmole of sodium borohydride in 1 ml of dimethylformamide was added. The temperature of the resulting mixture was raised from 30 C to room temperature over 2.5 hours, to obtain a solution of the present compound. 11B nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum Varian Company made, Type XL 200, standard, B,F3.OEt2 of this solution was as follows 21.1 ppm, 6.0 ppm.Examples, 2 and 3 Reaction was carried out in the same manner as in Example 1 except that l 2,5 dimethoxyphenyl 2amino l propanol hydrochloride was replaced by 1 2 methoxyphenyl 2 amino 1 propanol hydrochloride or 1 2ethoxyphenyl 2 amino 1 propanol hydrochloride, to obtain a solution of the present compound having the physical property shown in Table 1. Table 1EMI10.1 tb Example No. SEP 11B SEP SEP NMR SEP spectrum tb SEP Ib ppm l SEP tb SEP 2 SEP 20.8 SEP 6.2 SEP tb SEP 3 SEP 21.1 SEP 6.5 SEP tb Example 4 In a nitrogen atmosphere, 0.392 g 1.8 mmoles of l 2 methoxyphenyl 2 amino l propanol hydrochloride was suspended in 5 ml of 1,2dichloroethane, and after cooling to 25 C, a solution of 0.068 g 1.8 mmoles of sodium borohydride in 1 ml of dimethylformamide was added. The temperature of the resulting suspension was raised from 25oC to room temperature over 3 hours.Thereafter, a solution of 0.39 g 1.2 mmoles of E 1 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 l,2,4 triazol l yl 4,4 dimethyl l penten 3 one E Z 97.6 2.4 in 4 ml of l,2 dichloroethane was added to this suspension at 20or, and then stirring was carried out for 69 hours. Thereafter, 8 ml of 2N hydrochloric acid was added, followed by stirring. The organic layer was washed with water, dried and concentated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified on a column packed with 2 g of silica gel with a chloroform solvent and then concentrated under reduced pressure to obtain 0.39 g of E l 2,4 dichloro phenyl 2 1,2, 4 triazol l yl 4, 4 dimethyl l penten 3 ol as a crude crystal. By gas chromatographic analysis, it was found that the conversion was 100 , and the composition of the reaction product was E form alcohol, 96.2 , Z form alcohol, 3.7 Z form alcohol was produced through isomerization of the ketone compound to the Z form, followed by reduction of the carbonyl group and a saturated alcohol, less than 0.1 the saturated alcohol of the reaction products means a product obtained by hydrogenation of both the carbonyl group and the carbon carbon double bond contained in the ketone compound which is a material . By high performance liquid chromatographic analysis using an optically active column, it was found that the enantiomer ratio of the E form alcohol was isomer, 96.6 and isomer, 3.4 . The optical yield was 93.2 .Examples 5 to 10 Reaction was carried out according to Example 5 usig the amino alcohol hydrochloride and the ketone compound described below. The results are shown inTable 2. Table 2EMI13.1 tb Ex tb ample SEP Ketone SEP compound SEP Amino SEP alcohol tb No. tb SEP C SEP SOCH3 SEP tb SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 1 tb SEP 5 SEP SEP C C CH3 3 SEP CH30 SEP OH SEP NHZ tb SEP H SEP NT SEP SEP E Z 98.9 1.1 SEP CH3OOH SEP NH2 tb SEP OCH3 tb SEP 6 SEP l SEP SEP 1I SEP SEP C 1H C H CH3 tb SEP OH SEP NH2 tb SEP 7 SEP Soch, SEP S SEP 3 tb SEP C CZ SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP OH SEP NH2 tb SEP C C SEP CH,O tb SEP H SEP N SEP N N SEP E 2 97.6 2.4 SEP CH30 tb SEP tb SEP 8 SEP fl SEP SEP n SEP SEP SEP t SEP CH CH CH3 tb SEP OH SEP NH2 tb SEP 0 SEP OCH3 tb SEP II tb SEP 9 SEP H SEP ,C C CH3 3 SEP AfA4CH3 tb SEP C SEP CH3 SEP tb SEP H SEP E Z SEP 99 SEP E Z 99.9 0.1 tb SEP H tb SEP OH SEP NH2 tb Table 2 Cont d EMI14.1 tb Reac SEP Reac SEP Con SEP Reaction SEP product SEP Enanti SEP Optical tb tion SEP tion SEP ver SEP omer SEP SEP mer SEP yield tb tem SEP time SEP sion SEP E form SEP Z form SEP Satu SEP ratio SEP of tb pera SEP alcohol SEP alcohol SEP rated SEP SEP of SEP E form tb ture SEP alcohol SEP E form SEP alcohol tb c SEP hr SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP alcohol SEP g tb SEP tb 10 12 SEP 98 SEP 94.2 SEP 96.2 SEP 3.7 SEP 0.1 SEP 96.2 tb SEP 1.9 tb SEP 20 SEP 69 SEP 98.2 SEP 90.5 SEP 9.4 SEP 0.1 SEP 94.6 tb SEP 2.7 tb SEP 20 SEP 24 SEP 100 SEP 97.0 SEP 3.0 SEP 0.1 SEP 89.4 tb SEP 5,3 tb SEP 20 SEP 21 SEP 99.0 SEP 96.4 SEP 3.5 SEP 0.1 SEP SEP 86.8 tb SEP 93.4 tb SEP 13.0 tb SEP 20 SEP 20 SEP 100 SEP 97.2 SEP 2.8 SEP SEP SEP 74.0 tb SEP 870 tb Table 2 Cont d EMI15.1 tb SEP I SEP 0 SEP OCH3 tb 10 SEP C C CllC SEP CH3 3 SEP dCH CH CH3 tb SEP zNo SEP E Z 99.9 0.1 SEP CH3 SEP OH SEP CH3 tb Table 2 Cont d EMI16.1 tb SEP 86.7 tb 20 SEP 43 SEP 100 SEP 97.0 SEP 3.0 SEP SEP 73.4 tb SEP 13.3 tb Example 11 In a nitrogen atmosphere, a solution of 0.380 g 1.8 mmoles of l 2,5 dimethoxyphenyl 2 amino lpropanol in 4 ml of 1,2 dichloroethane was added dropwise at 78oC to a mixture comprising 1.8 ml of a 0.S00M diborane tetrahydrofuran solution and 2 ml of 1,2 dichloroethane, and the temperature of the resulting mixture was raised from 78oC to room temperature over about 2 hours.Thereafter, to this solution was added dropwise at room temperature a solution of 0.39 g 1.2 mmoles of E l 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 l,2,4 triazol l yl 4,4 dimethyl l penten 3 one E Z 97.6 2.46 in 4 ml of l,2 dichloroethane, and stirring was carried out for 24 hours. Thereafter, 8 ml of 2N hydrochloric acid was added to the reaction solution, followed by stirring for about 2 hours. The organic layer was washed with water and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified on a column packed with 2 g of silica gel using a chloroform solvent and then concentrated under reduced pressure to obtain 0.39 g of E 1 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl 1penten 3 ol as a crude crystal.The conversion was 98.4 , and the composition of the product obtained was E form alcohol, 97.1 and Z form alcohol, 2.9 . The enantiomer ratio of the E form alcohol was isomer, 95.1 and isomer, 4.9 . The optical yield was 90.2 . Example 12 React ion was carried out in the same manner as in Example 11 except that the E l cyclohexyl 4,4 dimethyl 2 l,2,4 triazol l yl l penten 3 one E Z 99.9 0.1 was used in place of E l 2,4 dichloro phenyl 2 l,2,4 triazol l yl 4,4 dimethyl l penten 3 one. The conversion was 100 , and the composition of the product obtained was E form alcohol, 99.7 and Z form alcohol, 0.3 . The enantiomer ratio of the E form alcohol was isomer, 87.8 and isomer, 13.2 .The optical yield was 74.6 .Comparative Examples 1 to 7 Reaction was carried out according to Example 5 using the amino alcohol hydrochloride and the ketone compound described below. The results are shown inTable 3. Table 3EMI19.1 tb Com tb para tb tive SEP Ketone SEP compound SEP Amino SEP alcohol tb Ex tb ample tb No. tb SEP Cl, SEP CH 3 tb SEP C SEP SEP H C H CH tb SEP 1 SEP CCC SEP CH3 SEP 3 SEP 11 tb SEP H SEP sC CC SEP 1 SEP OH tb SEP H SEP N N SEP E Z 98.9 1.1 SEP OH SEP NH2 tb SEP tN SEP . tb SEP 2 SEP II SEP SEP n SEP SEP II tb SEP tb SEP CH CH CH3 tb SEP I tb SEP 4 SEP O SEP cCcXC SEP C CH3 3 SEP SEP ss SEP CH CH tb SEP H SEP N SEP E Z 97.6 2.4 SEP CH SEP OH SEP NH2 tb SEP 3 tb SEP 5 SEP II SEP E Z 99.9 0.1 SEP tb SEP OH SEP NH2 tb SEP O SEP CH tb SEP 6 SEP t SEP C SEP C C C CH3 3 SEP It SEP 3 tb SEP H SEP N N SEP E Z 99.9 0.1 tb SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP OH SEP NH2 tb SEP ls H CH3 tb SEP 7 SEP I SEP tb SEP I SEP I tb SEP OH SEP NH2 tb Table 3 Cont d EMI20.1 tb Reac SEP Reac SEP Con SEP Reaction SEP product SEP Enanti SEP Optical tb tion SEP tion SEP ver SEP SEP omer SEP yield tb tem SEP time SEP sion SEP E Form SEP Z form SEP Satu SEP ratio SEP of tb pera SEP alcohol SEP alcohol SEP alcohol SEP SEP of SEP E form tb ture tb SEP E form SEP alcohol tb C SEP hr SEP SEP z SEP SEP SEP alcohol SEP tb SEP 96 SEP 1 tb 10 12 SEP 98 SEP 92.6 SEP 95.0 SEP 4.9 SEP 0.1 SEP g SEP 92.2 tb SEP 95 SEP 9 tb SEP 20 SEP 69 SEP 98.7 SEP 93.6 SEP SEP 6.3 SEP 0.1 SEP 91.8 tb SEP 81 SEP 62.2 tb SEP 20 SEP 24 SEP 975 SEP 83.7 SEP 15.9 SEP 0.4 tb SEP 8.9 tb SEP 1 SEP 90 SEP 80.4 tb SEP 20 SEP 69 SEP 99.9 SEP 96.6 SEP 3.3 SEP 0.1 SEP 80.4 tb SEP 9.8 tb SEP 85 SEP 23 SEP 1 tb SEP 20 SEP 23 SEP 96,4 SEP 98.3 SEP 1.7 SEP SEP 70.2 tb SEP 19 tb SEP 20 SEP 24 SEP 100 SEP 97.1 SEP 2.9 SEP SEP z SEP 61.8 tb SEP 0,9 tb SEP 20 SEP 20 SEP 99.5 SEP 94.9 SEP 5.1 SEP SEP g SEP 59.4 tb Reference Example 1 A mixture of 14.05 g of erythro 2 amino l 2 methoxyphenyl l propanol erythro threo 98.0 2.0 , 10.09 g of D pantolactone and 100 ml of water was heated for 1 hour with stirring and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue obtained was recrystallized from 110 ml of isopropanol to obtain 5.09 g of the D pantoic acid salt of erythro 2 aminol 2 methoxyphenyl l propanol. a D 22.90 c 0.9, water .This diastereomer salt was decomposed with a solution of 1.61 g of potassium hydroxide in 20 ml of water and extracted with chloroform to obtain 2.58 g of erythro 2 amino 1 2 methoxyphenyl 1 propanol. By dissolving this aminoalcohol in diethyl ether chloroform mixtures and passing a hydrogen chloride gas therethrough, the hydrochloric acid salt of the aminoalcohol was formed. This salt was collected by filtration and dried to obtain 2.82 g of erythro 2 amino 1 2 methoxyphenyl 1 propanol hydrochloride. 26.5 26.5 c 1.0, water . This product was converted to its sugar derivative diastereomer and analyzed by high performance liquid chromatography to find that its optical purity was 62.6 . The filtrate after recrystallization was concentrated under reduced pressure to obtain 20.28 g of the D pantoic acid salt of erythro 2 amino l 2 methoxyphenyl l propanol. a D 1.290 c l.0, water .The product was recrystallized from isopropanol, and after filtration, the filtrate obtained was concentrated under reduced pressure, decomposed with a solution of 3.76 g of potassium hydroxide in 47 ml of water and extracted with chloroform to obtain 6.79 g of erythro 2 amino 1 2 methoxyphenyl 1 propanol. This aminoalcohol was converted to its sugar derivative diastereomer and analyzed by high performance liquid chromatography to find that its optical purity was 44.6 . By dissolving this aminoalcohol in diethyl ether chloroform mixture and passing a hydrogen chloride gas therethrough, erythro 2 amino l 2 methoxyphenyl 1 propanol hydrochloride was obtained.After recrystallizing this hydrochloride three times from ethanol, 1.75 g of erythro 2 amino l 2 methoxyphenyl 1 propanol hydrochloride was obtained from the filtrate. 37.7 c 1.0, water . The optical purity of this product was 98.0 by high performance liquid chromatographic analysis.Reference Example 2 A hot solution of 11.19 g of erythro 2 amino l 2 ethoxyphenyl 1 propanol content of the erythro form, 99 or more in 15 ml of methanol was added to a hot solution of 8.60 g of L tartaric acid in 20 ml of methanol, and the resulting solution was allowed to cool. The deposited crystal was collected by filtration to obtain 10.44 g of the L tartaric acid salt of erythro 2 amino 1 2 ethoxyphenyl 1 propanol. 0 D 6.30 c 1.0, water . This salt was recrystallized from methanol to obtain 4.50 g of a crystal. 0 8.40 c 1.0, water .This crystal was decomposed with a 20 aqueous sodium hydroxide solution and extracted with chloroform to obtain 2.79 g of erythro 2 amino 1 2 ethoxyphenyl 1 propanol. alpha D 16.40 c 1.0, CHCl3 . This aminoalcohol was converted to its sugar derivative diastereomer and analyzed by high performance liquid chromatography to find that its optical purity was 63.2 . By dissolving this aminoalcohol in diethyl ether chloroform mixture and passing a hydrogen chloride gas therethrough, 3.18 g of erythro 2 amino 1 2 ethoxyphenyl 1 propanol hydrochloride was obtained. Recrystallization of this product from isopropanol was repeated four times to obtain 1.02 g of a crystal. 0 i 43.6 c 1.0, water .The optical purity of the crystal was 97.8 .Reference Exampel 3 On adding a solution of 4.56 g 0.0263 mole of N acetyl L leucine and 1.11 g 0.0263 mole of 95 sodium hydroxide in 50 ml of water to a solution of 12.17 g 0.0525 mole of erythro 2 amino 2 methoxy 5 methylphenyl 1 propanol hydrochloride erythro form, 99 or more in 115 ml of water, a crystal was deposited. This crystal was re dissolved in the solution by additionally adding 500 ml of water, and after allowing to cool, the deposited crystal was collected by filtration. The yield of the N acetyl L leucine salt of erythro 2 amino 1 2 methoxy 5 methylphenyl 1 propanol was 3.63 g. a 29.20 c 1.0, water .This salt was decomposed with a 10 aqueous sodium hydroxide solution and extracted with chloroform to obtain 1.94 g of erythro 2 amino 1 2 methoxy 5 methylphenyl 1 propanol. alD 22.10 c l.l, CHC13 . By dissolving this product in diethyl ether and passing a hydrogen chloride gas therethrough, 2.13 g of erythro 2 amino 1 2 methoxy 5 methylphenyl 1 propanol hydrochloride was obtained. This salt was recrystallized from isopropanol to obtain 1.65 g of the crystal. a D 22.20 c 1.0, water . The optical purity of this product as sugar derivative diastereomer was 97.88 by high performance liquid chromatographic analysis.Reference Example 4 20 Grams 0.0938 mole of 2 amino 1 2ethoxyphenyl l propanone hydrochloride ws dissolved in 300 ml of water, and 1.77 g 0.0468 mole of sodium borohydride was added at 50 to 8 After maintaining the temperature for 1 hour with stirring, the reaction solution was allowed to stand overnight at room temperature. Thereafter, the reaction solution was acidified with conc. hydrochloric acid and then made alkaline with a 25 aqueous sodium hydroxide solution. The deposited crystal was collected by filtration, washed with water and dried to obtain 13.40 g of erythro 2 amino 1 2 ethoxyphenyl 1 propanol as a crystal erythro threo 98.4 1.6 . This crystal was recrystallized from toluene to obtain 12.39 g of a crystal content of the erythro form, 99 or more . m.p., 89 91 C NMR spectrum CDC13 6 ppm 0.99 d 3H , 1.40 t 3H , 1.6 2.4 broad 2H , 3.24 m H , 3.99 q 2H , 4.76 d H , 6.7 7.04 m 2H , 7.05 7.45 m 2H