# High frequency connector

## Claims
Verbinder 50 zum Verbinden einer an einem Gehäuse 60 angeordneten Hochfrequenzschaltung 68 mit einer externenSchaltung, wobei der Verbinder 50 aufweist eine ausMetall hergestellte rohrförmige Hülse 52 zur Anordnungan dem Gehäuse 66 , wobei die rohrf6rmige Hülse 52 einen als Außenleiter wirkenden hohlen Abschnitt 54 aufweist, einen längsgestreckten Mittelleiter 62 , dersich auf und entlang der Mittelachse des hohlen Abschnitts 54 der Hülse 52 erstreckt, zur Verbindung aneinem Ende 62a mit der Hochfrequenzschaltung 68 undan dem anderen Ende 62b mit der externen Schaltung undein aus Isoliermaterial hergestelltes Stützelement 60 zum Stützen des Mittelleiters 62 in dem hohlen Abschnitt 54 der Hülse 52 , wobei das Element 60 denMittelleiter 62 nur entlang seiner Länge entfernt vondem einen Ende 62a stützt, das eine Ende des Mittelleiters 62 durch das Stützelement 60 an einer Stelle desMittelleiters, die entfernt von dem einen Ende 62a undbenachbart zu dem anderen Endabschnitt liegt, freigetragenwird, wobei das eine Ende 62a frei und bewegbarist, und aus einem Federmaterial hergestellt ist, undbezogen auf die Mittelachse des hohlen Abschnitts 54 der Hülse 52 vor und beim Einsetzen des Verbinders 50 in das Gehäuse 66 in eine Stellung, bezogen auf dieMittelachse der Hülse 52 verstellbar ist, die verschiedenvon der Position ist, in der er zur Bereitstellungeines geeigneten Kontakts mit der Hochfrequenzschaltung 68 sein würde, so daß das eine Ende 62a des Mittelleiters 62 eine vorgeformte Krümmung hat, die eine Verstellkurveeines Stützlagers vor dem Verbinden mit der Hochfrequenzschaltung 68 ist und wobei das eine Ende 62a mit der Hochfrequenzschaltung 68 in Berührung gebrachtwird bei Abschluß des Einsetzens des Verbinders 50 in das Gehäuse 66 .

## Description
The present invention relates to a high frequency connectoradapted for interconnecting a microstrip circuit and an externalcircuit and, more particularly, to a connector structure suited toconnect transverse electromagnetic mode TEM waves which liein a 0.3 30 GHz frequency band, and starts from DE A 2603187. A microstrip substrate is an implementation recentlydeveloped for the circuit construction of various equipments ofthe kind which use the microwave band. One of the majorproblems with a microstrip substrate is the interconnectionbetween the substrate and an external circuit. Figs. 1 and 2show different prior art connectors which may be used tointerconnect a conductor section of a microstrip substrate, whichis received in a housing, to a coaxial cable. In Fig. 1, aconnector 10 is fit in a bore 18 formed in a wall 16 of a housing12, which accommodates a microstrip substrate 14 therein.Specifically, the connector 10 comprises a shell 20 provided witha flange 22 and a male screw 24 which is to mate with anexternal circuit, an intermediary insertion member 26 coupled inthe shell 20 and in the bore 18 of the wall 16 of the housing 12,and a center conductor 28 supported by an insulator 30 insidethe hollow shell 20 and insertion member 26. Before mountingthe connector 10 to the housing 12, the microstrip substrate 14is fixed in a predetermined position inside the housing 12.Then, the insertion member 26 of the connector 10 is insertedinto the bore 18 of the housing 12, then a center conductor pin34 provided with a connecting ribbon 32 beforehand is insertedinto a slitted portion 28a of the center conductor 28 from inside the housing 12, and then the ribbon 32 is soldered to acorresponding conductor portion on the substrate 14. In Fig. 2, a prior art connector 36 of the type using a glassbead 38 is shown. The bead 38 comprises a tube 39 made ofmetal and a center conductor pin 40 which is fixed in place byglass 42 at the center of the tube 38. In assembly, the bead 38is inserted into the housing 12 to align with a conductor on themicrostrip substrate 14, then solder is poured into a bore 44provided in the upper end of the housing 12 so as to fix the bead38 in place, then the center conductor pin 40 and a conductorportion of the substrate 14 are soldered to each other, and thenthe connector 36 is screwed into the housing 12. The problem with the connector configuration shown in Fig.1 is that due to the substantial inductive impedance of the ribbon32 the voltage standing wave ratio VSWR is high atfrequencies higher than several gigaherzs. Another problem isthat the connection of the ribbon 32 requires extra steps.Meanwhile, the connector configuration shown in Fig. 2 isdisadvantageous in that a considerable number of steps arenecessary for the bead 38 to be fixed in place by solder, which ispoured into the bore 44 of the housing 12, and in that themanipulation for replacing the microstrip substrate is intricate.In addition, both the connectors shown in Figs. 1 and 2 areexpensive to produce and need expensive structural parts. In DE A 2603187, there is described a coaxial connectorhaving an inner conductor which projects from abody of insulating material. The body of insulatingmaterial is dimensioned to match an opening in the wallof the housing, so that with the help of the wall of thehousing it is possible to guide the inner conductor intoa position of contact with a conducting strip inside thehousing in a mechanically stable manner. US A 3601766 describes a member for terminating acoaxial cable, the members being screwed on to the end of the coaxial cable in such a way that the end of theinner conductor of the cable is deflected during screwingby a tapered head on the end of a centrally located conductorpin and held between an inner surface of aninsulating insert and the tapered head in order to providea good electrical contact between the inner conductorof the cable and conductor pin. In the specification of German patent application 3103158 which waspublished on September 2 1982, there was disclosed a coaxial connectorhaving an inner conductor with a prestressed spring element resting ona metal coating on the upper surface of a substrate. The contact pressureof the inner conductor 5 of a connecting flange is adjusted when thecoaxial line is screwed on to the connecting flange 2. In the specification of German patent application published underthe number 2616987 on October 27 1977 there was disclosed a coaxialconnector having a contact tongue of its inner conductor eithersymmetrical or asymmetrical in relation to the central line of theinner conductor and marking contact with the surface of a substrate. The embodiments of the invention which are to bedescribed below enable a microstrip circuit to be connectedto an external circuit with a desired microwavetransmission characteristic, using a connector which issimple in construction and easy to assemble. The scope of the invention is defined in claim 1. In one embodiment of the invention to be describedthere is a connector for interconnecting an externalcircuit with a high frequency circuit mounted on a housing.The connector includes a tubular shell made of metal formounting on the housing, the tubular shell is hollow andfunctions as an external conductor, and an elongate centralconductor extends on and along the central axis of theconnector and is designed to connect at one end to thehigh frequency circuit and at the other end to theexternal circuit. A support member made of insulatingmaterial supports the central conductor in the tubularshell of the connector and the central conductor is cantileveredby the support member at a point of the centralconductor which is remote from the one end. A tip ofthe one end is thus free and movable. The high frequency connector to be described has aportion of the central conductor which is designed tocontact a high frequency microstrip circuit resiliently and issupported so that it can deviate from and return towardsthe central axis of the connector thereby promoting easyand positive interconnection. The connector is particularly,although not exclusively, applicable to TEMmode waves lying in the frequency band of 0.3 30 GHz. Prior art arrangements and embodiments of the inventionwill now be described, by way of example, withreference to the accompanying drawings in which While the high frequency connector of the present invention issusceptible of numerous physical embodiments, depending uponthe environment and requirements of use, substantial numbers ofthe herein shown and described embodiments have been made,tested and used, and all have performed in an eminentlysatisfactory manner. Referring to Fig. 3, a connector embodying the presentinvention is shown and generally designated by the referencenumeral 50. Fig. 4 shows the connector of Fig. 3 in a positionmounted on a housing 66 which has a microstrip circuit therein.As shown, the connector 50 comprises a shell 52 which includesa mating member 54 which in turn is provided with a male screw56 and a flange 58, and an insulator 60 for supporting a centerconductor 62. The left end of the center conductor 62 as viewedin Fig. 3 is rigidly retained by the insulator 60 inside the malescrew 56. A characteristic feature of the illustrative embodiment is thatthe center conductor 62 is cantilevered at its side right handside as viewed in Fig. 3 adapted to connect to a microstripcircuit and terminates at a free end at that side. In addition,the tip 62a of the center conductor 62 is deviated from the axisof the shell 52 and mechanically movable within a certain limitedrange. The insulator 60 is made of tetrafluoroethylene, orTeflon trade name , or like low loss dielectric material. Theinsulator 60 and center conductor 62 are prevented fromrotating relative to the shell 52 by resin 64 which is injected andthen cured. In Fig. 4, the lengthwise dimention of a projectionincluded in the mating member 54 coincides with the depth of abore 66a provided in the housing 66 within the range ofmachining errors, so that the relative position between thecenter conductor 62 and the microstrip substrate 68 isadequately restricted. The center conductor 62 has a slit 62b atits left end as seen in the drawings in which a center conductorof another connector is engageable. Two different methods are available for mounting theconnector 50 on the housing 66. One of them is such that, asshown in Fig. 4, the microstrip substrate 68 is fixed to thehousing 66, then the connector 50 is inserted into the housing 66with the tip 62a of the center conductor 62 directed upwardly,and then the connector 50 is rotated 180 degrees about its axisto cause the conductor tip 62a to abut against a conductorsurface on the microstrip substrate 68 under predeterminedpressure. Preferably, a thin sheet 70 of polyester or polyimid,for example, is placed between the conductor tip 62a and thesubstrate 68 in order to avoid possible damage to the conductorsurface on the substrate 68. The other method is such that, asshown in Fig. 5, the conductor tip 62a is raised by means of awire 72 and then the microstrip substrate 68 is inserted asindicated by an arrow to a predetermined fixing position. Referring to Figs. 6 and 7, another embodiment of thepresent invention is shown. A connector, generally 74, inaccordance with this particular embodiment has the matingmember 54 of the shell 52 which is relatively short, the bore 66ain the housing 66 being correspondingly reduced in depth. Asshown in Fig. 7, the connector 74 with such a configuration isheld in an inclined position and then inserted into the bore 66a.Such eliminates the need for handling the conductor tip 62a in themanner shown in Fig. 5. In any of the two embodiments described above, after theconnector 50 or 74 has been coupled in the housing 66, theflange 58 is fastened to the housing 66 by means of screws or the like not shown . Referring to Fig. 8, another embodiment of the presentinvention is shown. A connector, generally 76, has theinsulator 60 for supporting the center conductor 62 which isrelatively short. Specifically, the dielectric which supports thecenter conductor 62 is dimensioned as small as possible so thatthe center conductor 62 may be surrounded by air, therebyincreasing the cutoff frequency for needless modes. Theconnector 76 is shown in a mounted position in Fig. 9. Referring to Figs. 10 and 11, another embodiment of thepresent invention is shown in which a connector 78 or 80 ismounted to the housing 66 such that the center conductor 62extends perpendicular to the microstrip substrate 68. In Fig.10, the shell 52 is provided with a relatively long matingmember 54 while, in Fig. 11, it is provided with a relativelyshort mating member 54. In any of the configurations shown inFigs. 10 and 11, as shown in Fig. 12, a generally L shapedconductor piece, or contact, 84 is thermally bonded or solderedto an end of a conductor 82 which is provided on the surface ofthe microstrip substrate 68. This particular portion of thesubstrate 68 is shown in a plan view in Fig. 13. Alternatively,as shown in Fig. 14, a side conductor 86 may be provided onthe substrate 68 by baking a conductor paste. As shown in Fig. 15, the conductor tip 62a having a circularcross section makes line to line contact with the conductor 82on the substrate 68. Conductors having a circular cross sectionare inexpensive to produce and, therefore, suitably applicable togeneral purpose high frequency connectors. However,concerning millimeter wave applications, contacting portions ofthe center conductors should preferably be machined in order toallow a minimum of discontinuity of the line. Preferredconfigurations of the contacting portions of a center conductorare shown in sections in Figs. 16A 16D. In Fig. 16A, a flatsurface 88 which extends in one direction is included in thecontact surface of the center conductor. In Fig. 16B, flat surfaces 90 extend in three different directions each conformingto the width of a conductor on the substrate 68. In Fig. 16C, alug 92 having a rectangular section protrudes from the centerconductor this configuration is desirably applicable to theembodiment of Figs. 10 and 11 in which the center conductor 62and the substrate 68 are perpendicular to each other. Tofurther enhance the contact, the lug 92 shown in Fig. 16C maybe provided with a recess 94 in a lower part thereof, as shownin Fig. 16D. As described above, the connector in accordance with any ofthe foregoing embodiments is capable of holding the centerconductor 62 in contact with the conductor surface on themicrostrip substrate 68 under adequate pressure. While thecontact pressure in terms of normal component of a force of thecontact surface is generally regarded acceptable if on the orderof 0.2 N Newton in the case of gold Au to gold contact, itshould preferably be about 5 12 N taking into account possiblesilver Ag to silver contact and entry of impurities between thecontact surfaces. The magnitude of the normal component of aforce on the contact surface will be described with reference toFig. 17. Referring to Fig. 17, assume that the center conductor 62has a length where The slit 62a provided in the center conductor adjacent to anexternal circuit may have any suitable configuration such asshown in Figs. 20A 20B. In summary, it will be seen that the present inventionprovides a high frequency connector which achieves variousadvantages as enumerated below