# Corrosion inhibited brine composition, method of making same, and method of inhibiting corrosion and decreasing corrosiveness.

## Abstract
A corrosion inhibiting composition including an aqueous solution of at least one alkali or alkaline earth metal halide and a corrosion inhibiting amount of zinc and thiocyanate ions for use in well drilling, completion, packer fluid and workover operations.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A corrosion inhibited composition characterized in that it comprises water, at least one alkali or alkaline earth metal halide, and a corrosion inhibiting amount of zinc and thiocyanate ions. 2. The composition of Claim 1, characterized by having a density from 8 pounds per gallon 950 kg m3 to 16 pounds per gallon 1900 kg m3 . 3. The comi osition of Claim 1, characterised in that the metal halide is CaC12, Cabers, MgC12,MgBr2, NaCl, NaBr, KC1, KBr or mixtures thereof. 4. The composition of any one of Claims 1 to 3, characterized in that the zinc and thiocyanate ions are provided by zinc thiocyanate. 5. The composition of any one of Claims 1 to 3, characterized in that the zinc and thiocyanate are provided by a zinc compound and a thiocyanate compound. 6. The composition of Claim 5, characterized in that the zinc cQmpound is a zinc halide. 7. The composition of Claim 6, characterized in that the zinc halide is zinc chloride, zinc bromide or a mixture thereof. 8. The composition of any one of Claims 5 to 7, characterized in that the thiocyanate compound is thiocyanic acid or an alkali metal or alkaline earth metal salt thereof. 9. The composition of any one of Claims 5 to 7, characterized in that the thiocyanate compound in ammonium thiocyanate or sodium thiocyanate. 10. The composition of Claim 1 characterized in that the corrosion inhibiting amount of zinc and thiocyanate ions is from 0.005 percent by weight to 5.0 percent by weight. 11. A method of making a corrosion inhibited composition of Claim 1, which is characterized by combining a corrosion inhibiting amount of a corrosion inhibitor which dissociates in solution to provide zinc and thiocyanate ions, with an aqueous fluid to provide a composition comprising water, an alkali or alkaline earth metal halide, zinc ions, and thiocyanate ions. 12. The method of Claim 11, characterized in that the composition has a density of 8 pounds per gallon 950 kg m3 to 16 pounds per gallon 1900 kg m3 . 13. The method of Claim 12, characterized in that said metal halide is CaC12, CaBr2, MgC12, MgBr2, NaCl, NaBr, KC1, KBr or mixtures thereof and said corrosion inhibitor is zinc thiocyanate or combination of zinc halide and thiocyanate compound. 14. The method of Claim 13 characterized in that said zinc halide is zinc chloride, zinc bromide or a mixture thereof and said thiocyanate compound is thiocyanic acid, an alkali metal thiocyanate, an alkaline earth metal thiocyanate or ammonium thiocyanate. 15. The method of Claim 14, characterized in that the corrosion inhibiting amount of zinc and thiocyanate ions is from 0.005 percent by weight to 5.0 percent by weight. 16. A method of inhibiting corrosion of a metal, characterized in that the metal is contacted with a corrosion inhibited composition as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 10. 17. The method of Claim 16, characterised in that the metal is contacted with said corrosion inhibited composition at a temperature from 100OF 38 C to 500 F 260 C . 18. A method of decreasing the corrosiveness to a metal of a brine solution, which method comprises incorporating into the solution a corrosion inhibiting amount of a corrosioin inhibitor which dissolves in the solution to provide zinc and thiocyanate ions.

## Description
CORROSION INIIIBITED BRINE COMPOSITION, METHOD OF MAKING SAME, AND l ETllOD OF INHIBITING CORROSION AND DECREASING CORROSIVENESS This invention relates to corrosion inhibiting compositions and more particularly to corrosion inhibitors for use in brines. Brines, for example, those referred to as clear brine fluids, such as aqueous solutions of alkali or alkaline earth metal halides includingCaCl2, CaBr2, MgC12, and mixtures thereof, are used as drilling, completion, packer and workover fluids in oil and gas well operations. These brines are useful in providing a hydrostatic head especially in high pressure wells which, typically, require fluids with densities of 8.5 pounds per gallon ppg 1020 kilograms per cubic metre kg m3 or above.The use of these brines has improved well drilling, completion, packer and workover operations by eliminating formation plugging problems and solid settling problems previously encountered when solids containing media, such as water base and oil base drilling muds were used. In spite of the improvements provided by the use of clear brine fluids, clear brine fluids can be corrosive under operating conditions in drilling, completion, packer and workover operations.The corrosion problem is exacerbated by the higher temperatures typically found in deeper wells in which these brines are used. The prior art teaches that various corrosion inhibitors can be added to brines in an effort to overcome the corrosive nature of brines. nown inhibitors include, for example, film forming amine based corrosion inhibitors such as described in US anent No. 4,292,1b3. Thiocyanate or thiourea compounds, alone, or in combination with a quaternary pyridinium, quinolium or isoquinolinium salts are used as corrosion inhibitors for aqueous brines, such as calcium chloride, calcium bromide, calcium iodide, zinc chloride, zinc bromide, zinc iodide, or a mixture of such salts, as disclosed in British Patent Application 2,027,686A Although the above corrosion inhibitors are sometimes satisfactory for providing corrosion inhibiting properties to brines used, for example, as well drilling, completion, packer and workover medium, it is desired to provide a corrosion inhibiting composition within improved performance over the corrosion inhibiting compositions above suitable for such use. One aspect of the present invention is a corrosion .inhibiting composition comprising water, at least one alkali or alkaline earth metal halide and a corrosion inhibiting amount of zinc and thiocyanate ions. Another aspect of the present invention is a method of making a corrosion inhibited composition comprising combining water, at least one alkali or alkaline earth metal halide and a corrosion inhibiting amount of zinc and thiocyanate ions. Yet another aspect of the present invention is a method of inhibiting corrosion of metals comprising contacting a metal with an aqueous solution qf at least one alkali or alkaline earth metal halide and a corrosion inhibiting amount of zinc and thiocyanate ions. The term brine as used herein means an aqueous solution containing at least one inorganic salt of an alkali or alkaline earth metal halide. Thus, the brines intended to be covered in the present invention are aqueous solutions of halides of alkali or alkaline earth metals and mixtures thereof. For example, the brines may include CaCl21 CaBr2, MgCl2, MgBr2 or mixtures thereof, and the like. In addition, alkali metal halides such as NaCl, NaBr, KCl, KBr, or mixtures thereof and the like, or seawater may be useful in the present invention. Any aqueous solution of the aforementioned salts at any density is useful in the present invention. Preferably, brines of the present invention include all brines having a density of 8 ppg . 950 kg m3 and above.More preferably, the density of the brine lies in the range from 8 ppg . 950 kg m3 to 16 ppg 1900 kg m3 .Even more preferably, the density of the brine may be in the range from 10 ppg 1200 kg m3 to 15 ppg 1800 kg m3 . The brines used according to the present invention will be referred to herein as clear brine fluids which are suitable for use as well drilling, completion, packer and workover fluids in the oil and gas industry and the corrosion inhibiting composition of the present invention will be described herein, with reference to clear brine fluids used in oil and gas wells. However, the present invention is not to be limited to such use as the composition of the present invention can be used in other applications such as for the production of brines from subterranean formations or other applications where brine is used in contact with metal to inhibit the corrosive properties of the brine toward the metal.Metals which typically come into contact with the composition include ferrous metals such as iron and steel and alloys of such metals, with steel being the most common, as it is widely used in the oil and gas industry. The corrosion inhibiting composition of the present invention consists essentially of brine, i.e., water and at least one alkali or alkaline earth metal halide, as described above, and a corrosion inhibiting amount of zinc and thiocyanate ions therein. The corrosion inhibiting composition of the present invention includes a corrosion inhibiting amount of any compound or combination of compounds which dissociate in an aqueous solution or in a brine of the present invention to provide zinc cations Zn and thiocyanate anions SCN . Herein, the compound or combination of compounds which provide the Zn and SCN ions in solution will be referred to as a corrosion inhibitor. For example, zinc thiocyanate Zn SCN 2 is a preferred corrosion inhibitor compound since it, alone, provides both a Zn and a SCN ion when it is dissolved in solution. In addition, mixtures of zinc compounds and thiocyanate compounds or thiourea compounds may be used as the corrosion inhibitor to provide the Zn and SCN in a brine or aqueous solution. For example, the zinc compounds, which may be water soluble or brine soluble, may include halides of zinc such as zinc bromide ZnBr2 or zinc chloride ZnCl2 or mixtures thereof. Other zinc compounds, which ionize in a brine or aqueous solution to produce zinc ions, may be utilized such as zinc formate, zinc hydroxide, or zinc acetate. The preferred zinc compound when used in combination with a thiocyanate compound is a zinc halide such as ZnCl2 or ZnBr2. The thiocyanate compounds useful in the present invention are of the type represented by the general formula X SCN where X is any inorganic or organic cation. The preferred thiocyanate compounds used are those which are water soluble or brine soluble or which incorporate at least the thiocyanate ion in solution. For example, the thiocyanate compounds used may be thiocyanic acid and the inorganic salts of thiocyanic acid, particularly the alkali metal or alkaline earth metal thiocyanates, namely, sodium, potassium, lithium, calcium and magnesium thiocyanates as well as ammonium thiocyanates. Other thiocyanate compounds which ionize in a brine solution or aqueous solution to produce thiocyanate ions can be utilized. Particularly preferred is ammonium thiocyanate. Mixtures of two or more of such thiocyanate compounds can, of course, be employed. Thioureas are suitable for use in the present invention since, under certain conditions, for example at temperatures in excess of 3000F 1500C or higher, they decompose to produce thiocyanate ions. The thiourea compounds useful in the present invention to provide thiocyanate ions, for example, may be of the type represented by the formulaEMI6.1 where R, R1, R2 and R3 are each selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, and alkyl radicals containing from 1 to 4 carbon atoms such as methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl and isobutyl. Of the thiourea compounds, it is particularly preferred to utilize thiourea. Again, it will be understood that mixtures of two or more of said thiourea compounds can be employed, as well as mixtures of the thiocyanate and thiourea compounds. The combination of zinc compounds and thiocyanate compounds or thiourea compounds used should be compatible and provide some degree of corrosion protection. Other known additives which will not affect the inhibiting effect of the corrosion inhibitor may be added to the corrosion inhibiting composition of the present invention. For example, in oil well applications, viscosifiers such as hydroxyethylcellulose flocculants such as polyacrylamide fluid loss agents such as calcium carbonate pH control chemicals such as lime and other drilling aids such as lubricants, oils, emulsifiers, and H2S scavengers may be added to the composition. In preparing a corrosion inhibiting composition of the present invention, the corrosion inhibitor compound or compounds may be dissolved in the brine either directly or after dissolving the inhibitor in a solvent such as water.The resulting inhibited brine is then ready for use. For example, the inhibited brine may be used in drilling, completion, packer and workover applications. An effective amount of corrosion inhibitor is added to the brine to reduce corrosion of metal in contact with the brine from that which would occur with uninhibited brine of the same com position. The quantity of corrosion inhibitor added may vary and depends to some extent on the application conditions and the degree of corrosion protection desired. Generally, the corrosion inhibitor, asZn SCN 2, is present in the brine in a concentration ranging from 0.005 percent by weight to 5.0 percent by weight. Preferably, a range of 0.05 percent by weight to 1.0 percent by weight of Zn SCN 2 is employed. More preferable, a range of 0.1 percent to 0.5 percent by weight of Zn SCN 2 is employed. If a combination of a zinc compound and a thiocyanate compound is employed as the corrosion inhibitor, the quantity of each compound used should be sufficient to provide a concentration of Zn andSCN ions substantially equivalent to that which would be provided by the compound of Zn SCN 2, alone, as described above. For example, if a combination of NR4SCN and ZnBr2 is used as the inhibitor, 0.084 percent by weight of NH4SCN and 0.124 percent by weight ZnBr2 would be required in the brine to achieve the equivalent of 0.1 percent by weightZn SCN 2 in the brine. Greater quantities than 5.0 percent by weight of the inhibitor may be present in the brine but such quantities are not necessary to accomplish the purpose of the present invention.Furthermore, a specific molar concentration ratio of Zn to SCN can vary and still accomplish the purpose of the present invention. The inhibited brine composition may be used at various temperatures and pressures. For example, if the inhibited brine is employed as well drilling, completion or workover fluid in oil and gas wells to reduce corrosion of metal in contact with the fluid, typically, the temperature of the fluid in use ranges from 100OF 38 DC to 5000F 2600C . The composition of the present invention is especially useful at temperatures ranging from 1500F 65 OC to 4000F 200 OC . The following general corrosion test procedure was used to demonstrate experimentally the effectiveness of the corrosion inhibiting composition of the present invention.General Corrosion Test Procedure A series of test solutions of uninhibited brine was vigorously mixed at 75 F i50F 23.90C i 2.80C with a corrosion inhibitor. Coupons of Grade N 80 steel AmericanPetroleum Institute designations were prepared by ultrasonic cleaning in acetone coupons are stored with an oil coating and then rinsing with clean acetone. The coupons were dried and then weighed. The corrosion test on the coupons was done in a stainless steel aging cell, lined with a quartz container, using the test solutions. The coupons were placed in each of the solutions. With the test solution and coupons in place, the cell was sealed and filled with nitrogen N2 to 150 psig 1034.21 kPa N2 pressure. The aging cell was heated to a test temperature which constituted the start of the test. After the aging cell was heated for a test period, the heater was turned off and the aging cell allowed to cool to 800F 26.7 C to 1000F 37.80C . The aging cell was then vented and opened. The coupons were transferred to inhibited 10 percent HC1 solution and cleaned ultrasonically for two minutes. The coupons were then rinsed with water and then rinsed again with acetone. The coupons were weighed after drying. The rate of corrosion of each sample was calculated using the following equations Corrosion rate in mils year A x weight loss g mpy metre year, m y Test length days wherein A is a constant for a given coupon surface area. The percent protection is calculated using the following equation Protection CB CTC x 100 CB wherein CB corrosion rate of blanks and CTC corrosion rate of test coupons. The examples which follow are given to illustrate the invention and should not be construed as limiting its scope. All parts and percentages are by weight unless otherwise indicated.Example 1 The general corrosion test procedure above was used to corrosion test N 80 steel coupons with dimensions of 3 16 inch Q.47 cm by 1 inch 2.5 cm by 1 16 inch 0.16 cm and an exposed surface area of about 0.5 square inch 3.23 cm2 .The test solutions used were a series of 15 milliliter ml test solutions of Caul2 brine having a density of 11.6 ppg 1390 kg m3, 38 percent Cad2 and 62 percent water mixed with a corrosion inhibitor and their respective amounts as described in column a of Table I below. The aging cell was heated to a test temperature of 4000F 2040C for 7 days. The rate of corrosion of each sample was calculated using the following equation Corrosion rate in mils year 5672 x weight loss g mpy metre year, m y Test length days The results, described in Table I below, show that the Zn SCN 2 inhibitor gives a lower corrosion rate than other thiocyanate compounds with equivalent molar concentrations of thiocyanate ions.In addition, Table I shows that the Zn SCN 2 inhibitor gives an improved corrosion rate over a known film forming amine inhibitor. TABLE I Pro a Corrosion Rate tecSample Inhibitor mpy m y tionCS A none 5.0 12.7 x 10 CS B 0.1 NH4SCN 11.7 29.72 x 10 5 0 CS C 0.105 NaSCN 11.8 29.97 x 10 5 0 CS D 0.10 KI 86 1 3.0 t7.62 x 10 5 40 1 0.119 Zn SCN 2 1.2 3.05 x 10 5 76 These systems accelerated corrosion over that of the base brine.CS Comparative Sample 1 KI 86 is a film forming amine inhibitor which is a member of a class of inhibitors which con tain salts of acetylated polyamines, quaternized amines and organic quaternanes in solvents such as methanol, isopropanol and water. KI 86 is commercially available from The Tretolite Com pany, a division of Petrolite Corp.Example 2 The general corrosion test procedure above was used for testing coupons with dimensions of 1 9 16 inch 3.97 cm by 1 inch 2.54 cm by 3 16 inch 0.47 cm with a 1 4 inch 0.63 cm diameter hole and an exposed surface of about 4 square inches 25.8 cm2 . The test solutions used were a series of 150 ml solutions of 15.0 ppg 1797 kg m3 CaC12 and CaBr2 brine mixture 43.6 percent CaBr2, 17.1 percent CaCl2 and 56.3 percent water mixed with corrosion inhibitors and their respective amounts as described in column a of Table II below. The aging cell was heated at 3000F 1490C for 5 days and 21 hours.The rate of corrosion of each sample was calculated using the following equation Corrosion rate in mils year 709 x weight loss g mpy metre year, m y Test length days Table II describes the synergistic effect of adding zinc ions to a thiocyanate containing system. The inhibitor comprising a combination of a thiocyanate compound and zinc ions gives a lower corrosion rate than the thiocyanate compound alone. TABLE II Pro a Corrosion Rate tecSample Inhibitor mpy m y tionCS A none 15.2 t38.6 x 10 5 5CS B 0.10 NaSCN 8.4 21.3 x 10 5 44.7 1 0.10 NaSCN 7.2 18.3 x 10 5 52.6 0.01 Zn 2 0.10 NaSCN 2 3 5 8 x 10 5 84.9 0.025 Zn CS Comparative Sample Example 3 The general corrosion test procedure above was used for corrosion testing coupons with dimensions at 1 9 16 inch 3.97 cm by 1 inch 2.54 cm by 3 16 inch 0.47 cm with a 1 4 inch 0.63 cm diameter hole and an exposed surface area of about 4 square inches 25.8 cm2 .The test solutions used were a series of 150 ml solutions of Cacti2 brine 38 percent Caul2 and 62 percent H20 having a density of 11.6 ppg 1390 kg m3 . The corrosion inhibitor used was Zn SCN 2 and the amounts used are described in column a of TableIII below. The aging cell was heated at 4000F 2040C for 10 days and 17 hours. The rate of corrosion of each sample was calculated using the following equation Corrosion rate in mils year 709 x weight loss g mpy metre year, m y . Test length days The results shown in Table III illustrate the effectiveness of a Zn SCN 2 inhibitor as a function of concentration. TABLE III Pro a Corrosion Rate tecSample Inhibitor mpy rm yl tionCS A none 8.5 21.59 x 10 1 0.01 Zn SCN 2 8.4 21.34 x 10 5 1.2 2 0.05 Zn SCN 2 3.3 8.38 x 10 5 61.2 3 0.10 Zn SCN 2 0.2 0.51 x 10 5 97.6CS Comparative Sample Example 4 The general corrosion test procedure above was used for corrosion testing coupons with dimensions at 1 9 16 inch 3.97 cm by l inch 2.54 cm by 3 16 inch 0.47 cm . The test solutions used were a series of 150 ml solutions of CaC12 brine 38 percent CaC12 and 62 percent H20 having a density of 11.6 ppg 1390 kg m3 . The aging cell was heated at 4000F 2040C for 5 days and 21 hours. Table IV describes the synergistic effect of adding zinc ions to a thiocyanate containing system. The inhibitor comprising a combination of a thiocyanate compound NH4SCN and zinc ions gives a lower corrosion rate than the thiocyanate compound alone. TABLE IV Pro a Corrosion Rate tecSample Inhibitor mpy m yJ tion 1 none 19.0 48.3 x 10 5 2 0.092 NH4SCN 19.8 50.1 xl0 5 0 3 0.92 NH SCN 0.0036 Zn 5.1 12.9 x 10 5 73.2 as ZnBr2