# N ACETONYL SUBSTITUTED AMIDES, COMPOSITIONS CONTAINING THEM AND THEIR USE IN COMBATING FUNGI

## Claims
Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragsstaaten BE, CH, DE, FR, GB, IT, LI, LU, NL und SE

## Description
This invention is concerned with N acetonyl substituted amide compounds, compositions containing them and their use in combating fungi, particularly phytopathogenic fungi. It is known that the benzamides in the class of N 1,1 dialkyl 3 chloroacetonyl substituted benzamides have fungicidal activity see, for example, U.S. 3,661,991 and 3,751,239. However, such benzamide compounds, wherein the terminal carbon can only be substituted by chloro or hydrogen atoms, are so phytotoxic that they have no practical use in the treatment of fungal plant infections of plants. Canadian Journal of Chemistry, Vol 59, no 6, 1981, pp 945 951, Chkir et al Journal of Org. Chem., Vol 31, no 8, 08 66, pp 2580 2584, Dillard et al and US 3,359,313 disclose amides of β keto amines, but none disclose specific compounds of the present invention. Us 3,359,313 describes compounds useful for treating crown gall. We have now found a class of amides which are effective in the control of foliar or soil borne phytopathogenic fungi. Accordingly, the present invention comprises the use of a compound of the formula wherein A is furyl, thienyl, isoxazolyl, pyrrolyl, oxazolyl, pyridyl, pyrazolyl, pyrimidinyl, isothiazolyl, thiazolyl, quinolyl, isoquinolyl, phenyl C₁ C₄ alkyl, cyclo C₃ C₇ alkyl, phenyl C₂ C₄ alkenyl, phenoxy C₁ C₄ alkyl, naphthyl, C₁ C₈ alkyl, C₁ C₈ alkoxy alkyl, halo C₁ C₈ alkyl or C₂ C₆ alkenyl group when A is a cyclic substituent, the cyclic portion may be substituted with up to three substituents independently selected from halo, trifluoromethyl, fluorosulfonyl, methyl, ethyl, methoxy,chloromethyl, C₁ C₂ alkoxy carbonyl, cyano, hydroxy or phenyl group In another aspect, the present invention comprises a new class of amides which are useful for controlling fungus or for preventive fungus control. The amides are the compounds formula I wherein A is a heterocycle selected from furyl, thienyl, isoxazolyl, pyrrolyl, oxazolyl, pyridyl, pyrazolyl, pyrimidinyl, isothiazolyl, thiazolyl, quinolyl and isoquinolyl, or phenyl C₁ C₄ alkyl, cycloalkyl C₃ C₇ , When X contains a phenylcarbonyloxy, phenoxy or phenylthio substituent, the phenyl moiety may be substituted with one substituent selected from chloro, fluoro, bromo, iodo or methyl. Preferred compounds of the invention are those wherein one or more of the following preferences obtains A is furyl, phenylthio, isoxazolyl, oxazolyl, pyridyl, phenoxy C₁ C₄ alkyl, phenyl C₂ C₄ alkenyl, trichloromethyl or trifluoromethyl and when A is a cyclic substituent, its cyclic portion may be substituted with up to three, preferably up to two, substituents selected from chloro, bromo, fluoro, C₁ C₄ alkyl or phenyl More preferred compounds of the invention are those wherein one or more of the following preferences obtains A is isoxazolyl, phenylisooxazolyl, phenoxy C₁ C₂ alkyl or pyridyl wherein the cyclic portion of each of these substituents is substituted with up to two substituents independently selected from chloro and bromo atoms R¹ and R² are each independently C₁ C₂ alkyl X is a bromo, iodo, methylsulfonyloxy, isothiocyano or thiocyano group Y is a hydrogen, bromo, chloro or iodo atom and Z is a hydrogen atom. Most preferred options are as follows R¹ is a methyl group R² is an ethyl group X is a bromo atom Y is a hydrogen, bromo, iodo or chloro atom Z is a hydrogen atom. A preferred compound of the invention is where A is a furyl, thienyl, oxazolyl isoxazolyl, phenylisoxazolyl, pyridyl, phenoxy C₁ C₄ alkyl, trichloromethyl or trifluoromethyl, when A is a cyclic substituent, the cyclic portion may be substituted with up to three substituents selected from chloro, bromo, fluoro or iodo atom Typical compounds of the invention include There should also be mentioned as useful the above named compounds varied by the substitution of one or more of the different substituents mentioned above as preferred. Compounds of the present invention provide a means for controlling phytopathogenic Phycomycetes and some fungi classified as Deuteromycetes Fungi Imperfecti , Ascomycetes, and Basidiomycetes. Important genera of the Phycomycetes include Late blights, downy mildews, many root rats and damping off diseases have been difficult to control due to the lack of effective control methods. Some of the more effective chemical control measures have become ineffective due to the development of resistant fungal strains. Compounds of Formula I can be used to control these types of fungi, particularly late blights and downy mildews. The amides of the invention can be applied as fungicidal sprays by methods commonly employed, such as conventional high gallonage hydraulic sprays, low gallonage sprays, air blast, aerial sprays and dusts. The dilution and rate of application will depend upon the type of equipment employed, the method and frequency of application desired and diseases to be controlled, but the effective amount is usually from about 0.5 kilogram kg to about 20 kg, preferably from about 1 to about 5 kg of active ingredient per hectare. As a seed protectant, the amount of toxicant coated on the seed is usually at a dosage rate of about 1 kg to about 5 kg and preferably from about 0.5 to about 2.5 kg per 100 kilograms of seed. As a soil fungicide the chemical can be incorporated in the soil or applied to the surface usually at a rate of 0.5 to about 20 kg and preferably about 1 to about 5 kg per hectare. As a foliar fungicide, the amides are usually applied to growing plants at a rate of about 0.5 to about 5 and preferably from about 1 to about 2.5 kg per hectare. The present invention is useful for the control of fungi and can be utilized at various loci such as the seed, the soil or the foliage, i.e. to plant seed, to a growth medium or to a growing plant. For such purposes these compounds can be used in the technical or pure form as prepared, as solutions or as formulations. The compounds are usually taken up in a carrier or are formulated so as to render them suitable for subsequent dissemination as fungicides. For example, these chemical agents can be formulated as wettable powders, emulsifiable concentrates, dusts, granular formulations, aerosols, or flowable emulsion concentrates. In such formulations, the compounds are extended with a liquid or solid carrier and, when desired, suitable surfactants are incorporated. It is usually desirable, particularly in the case of foliar spray formulations, to include adjuvants, such as wetting agents, spreading agents, dispersing agents, stickers, adhesives and the like in accordance with agricultural practices. Such adjuvants commonly used in the art can be found in In general, the compounds of this invention can be dissolved in appropriate solvents such as acetone, methanol, ethanol, dimethylformamide or dimethyl sulfoxide and such solutions extended with water. The concentrations of the solution can vary from 1 to 90 with a preferred range being 5 to 50 , by weight. For the preparation of emulsifiable concentrates, the compounds used in the invention can be dissolved in suitable organic solvents or a mixture of solvents, together with an emulsifying agent which permits dispersion of the fungicide in water. The concentration of the active ingredient in emulsifiable concentrates is usually 10 to 90 and in flowable emulsion concentrates, this can be as high as 75 , by weight. Wettable powders suitable for spraying, can be prepared by admixing the compound with a finely divided solid, such as clays, inorganic silicates and carbonates, and silicas and incorporating wetting agents, sticking agents, and or dispersing agents in such mixtures. The concentration of active ingredients in such formulations is usually in the range of 20 to 98 , preferably 40 to 75 . A typical wettable powder is made by blending 50 parts of N 3 Bromo 3 chloro 1 ,1 dimethylacetonyl nicotinamide, 45 parts of a synthetic precipitated hydrated silicon dioxide sold under the trademark Hi Sil and 5 parts of sodium lignosulfonate the material sold under the trademark Marasperse N 22 . In another preparation, a kaolin type Barden clay if used in place of the Hi Sil in the above wettable powder and in another such preparation 25 of the Hi Sil is replaced with a synthetic sodium silico aluminate sold under the trademark Zeolex 7. Dusts are prepared by mixing the amides and salts and complexes thereof with finely divided inert solids which can be organic or inorganic in nature. Materials useful for this purpose include botanical flours, silicas, silicates, carbonates and clays. One convenient method of preparing a dust is to dilute a wettable powder with a finely divided carrier. Dust concentrates containing 20 to 80 by weight of the active ingredient are commonly made and are subsequently diluted to 1 to 10 use concentration. The amides used in the invention can be readily prepared using conventional synthesis techniques. For example, compounds of Formula I can be prepared by methods including the preparations detailed in Schemes I and II. The starting materials, N propynylamides 3 , may be prepared by reacting the commercially available acid chlorides 2a with propynylamines 1 in solvents, such as water, methylene chloride, ether, tetrahydrofuran THF , dioxan, glyme, toluene and hexane, at temperatures from about 0 to about 100 C and preferably at about 0 to 20 C. A base is used to neutralize the hydrochloric acid produced in the reaction. Generally sodium hydroxide, pyridine, triethylamine, 2,6 lutidine, dimethylaminopyridine, N methylmorpholine or another such base is used. Alternatively, compounds of structure 3 may be prepared by activating the acid 2b with a reagent such as isobutylchloroformate, trifluoroacetic anhydride, methanesulfonylchloride, dicyclohexylcarbodiimide, 1 methyl 2 chloropyridinium iodide, diethylazodicarboxylate, N,N dimethylphosphoramidic dichloride, and then reacting it with the amine 1 . Use of these reagents in much reactions has been described in the literature. The halogenated ketones of structure 6a , 6b and 6c are available via the chemistry shown in Scheme II. According to this Scheme, the propynyl amide 3 is treated with one equivalent of chlorine, bromine, or another halogenating agent X₂ such as N chlorosuccinimide, N bromosuccinimide, sodium hypochlorite, pyridinium hydrobromide perbromide, to afford the oxazoline structure 4a as a hydrohalide salt which can be easily converted to its free base by standard methods such as treatment with pyridine, triethylamine, aqueous sodium carbonate, sodium hydroxide or another similar base. This oxazoline 4a as a free base may be then reacted with another halogenating agent or halogen Y₂ as described above to obtain oxazolines 5a or 5b . Hydrolysis of these oxazolines readily provides the products 6a and 6b in which the product has either two identical halogens 6a or two different halogens 6b . Hydrolysis can be carried out in solvents like THF, dimethoxyethane, dioxane, alcohols, dimethylsulfoxide, dimethylformamide, along with the aid of aqueous mineral acids, such as hydrochloric and sulfuric acid, at temperatures in the range of about 20 to about 80 C and preferably at about 20 to 50 C. When only one halogen is desired as in product 6c , the oxazoline 4a can be hydrolyzed under conditions described above to obtain product 6c . In those cases where X in structure 6c is other than halogen, these groups may be introduced by a nucleophilic substitution of X. Such substitutions can be successfully accomplished using alkali metal such as lithium, sodium or potassium salts of cyanide CN , thiocyanate SCN , dithiocarbamate SC S NR₂ , 1,2,4 triazole, imidazole azide, sulfide SR or acetate OC O R in solvents such as toluene, acetone, glyme, dimethylformamide and dimethylsulfoxide and at temperatures of from about 20 C to about 100 C. Procedures for carrying out such transformations are well known in the chemical literature. Catalysis of such reactions using crown ethers is also well known. The compounds of the present invention can be utilized in combination with one or more other fungicides such as It is particularly advantageous to utilize the present invention in combination with a dithiocarbamate, e.g., mancozeb or maneb, for added control of non Phycomycetes fungi. The following Examples are given for the purposes of illustration only. The compounds listed in Table 1 were prepared according to process schemes as given above. Representative process details are given for the preparation of the compounds of Examples 3, 4, 11 and 12. N 1 ,1 dimethylpropynyl thiophen 2 carboxamide 1.5 gm, 0.0078 mole in hexane 50 ml was placed in a round bottom flask equipped with magnetic stirrer and an addition funnel. Chlorine 0.6 gm, 0.0084 m in ethyl acetate 10 ml was added with stirring and stirred for about another 2 hours. Then hexane 50 ml was added and the white solid obtained was collected by filtration. This solid was taken with methanol 50 ml , water 10 ml and hydrochloric acid 5 ml and the resulting mixture heated to about 50 C for about one hour. The reaction solution was poured into ice water 200 ml and the white solid formed was collected by filtration. The crude product was chromatographed on silica using ethylacetate and hexane 20 80 to about 800 mg of product. N 1 ,1 dimethylpropynyl cyclohexancarboxamide 2.0 gms., 0.0104 m was dissolved in hexane 30 ml and chlorine gas was bubbled through it at room temperature until 0.8 gm was absorbed. The resulting white precipitate was filtered, taken in methanol 30 ml , water 10 ml and concentrated hydrochloric acid 5 ml and heated to 40 50 C for about one hour. The reaction was poured into ice water and white solid formed was filtered and dried. This solid was a mixture of two products from which the desired product was separated by column chromatography. The compounds of examples 1 14 were tested for their fungicidal activity. The compounds were tested