# METHOD FOR INVERSION OF OPTICALLY ACTIVE 4 HYDROXY 2 CYCLOPENTENONES

## Claims
Verfahren zur Herstellung des Antipoden eines optisch aktiven 4 Hydroxy 2 cyclopentenons der Formel

## Description
The present invention relates to a method for steric inversion of an optically active 4 hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone to its antipode. 4 R hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone is used as an intermediate in the production of prostaglandins having the same configuration see JP A 159777 1982 . Accordingly, if 4 S hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone having the inverse configuration could be converted to the R configuration, the economical value would be much increased. Also 4 S hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone is useful as an intermediate in the production of new prostaglandins. Accordingly, if 4 R hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone could be converted to the S configuration, it would be extremely meaningful in the synthesis of new prostaglandins. Thus, it is highly desirable to be able freely to invert the optical configuration of the hydroxy group at the 4 position of an optically active 4 hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone. JP A 156840 1977 FR A 2355815 describes the inversion of a derivative in accordance with the reaction However, there is no disclosure at all of 4 hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone which is the compound aimed at by the present invention. The compound aimed at by the present invention is quite different from the compound described in the prior art document in structure and application. The compound disclosed in the prior art document is utilized for a pyrethroidal pesticide called allethrolone, while the compound aimed at by the present invention is utilized as a raw material of prostaglandins which are useful for medicines. The present invention provides a method of preparing by inversion the antipode of an optically active 4 hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone of the formula This method of causing the inversion of the optical configuration of the hydroxyl group of 4 hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone can be carried out on an industrial scale and yields product of high optical purity. The hydrolysis of the raw material sulfonic acid ester or a nitric acid ester of the optically active 4 hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone can be effected merely by heating the same in the presence of water. However, the reaction can be carried out using a solvent. When a solvent is used, any may be used without any limitation unless difficulty is caused in the reaction. Suitable solvents include aprotic polar solvents, ethers, ketones, aliphatic or aromatic hydrocarbons such as, for example, acetone, dimethylformamide, dimethylsulfoxide, acetonitrile, tetrahydrofurane, dioxane, benzene, toluene, methyl isobutyl ketone, dichloromethane, dichloroethane and chlorobenzene. When the solvent is used, though there is no particular limitation on the amount thereof to be used, it is generally 1 20 times the weight of the raw material ester. Though the necessary amount of water to be used for the hydrolysis is at least an equimolar ratio or more based upon the amount of the raw material ester, it is generally 3 molar ratio or more, preferably in a range of 3.5 molar ratio to 50 molar ratio. The hydrolysis is carried out under neutral to acid conditions. Inorganic or organic acids, for instance, hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid, phosphoric acid, nitric acid, acetic acid, methanesulfonic acid, p toluenesulfonic acid are used, when hydrolysis is effected under acid conditions. These acids are usually used in the form of an aqueous solution at the concentration of 0.1 10 . No addition of supplemental acids is necessary during the hydrolysis, since sulfonic acid is by produced as the hydrolysis proceeds and the solution is kept acidic. If desired, water hardly soluble carbonates of alkaline earth metals, such as calcium carbonate, barium carbonate, may be added to the solution. The carbonates fill a role of catching the sulfonic acid by produced. Alternatively, buffer solutions such as boric acid buffer solution, phosphoric acid buffer solution, acetic acid buffer solution, and phthalic acid HCl buffer solution may be added in order to keep the solution neutral to acid. Preference is that the hydrolysis is carried out under neutral or weak acid conditions, in order to keep 4 hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone produced at stable condition. Concentration of acids, when used, should be as small as possible. Most preference is the presence of alkaline earth metal carbonates or buffer solution, in order to effect the hydrolysis under neutral conditions. The reaction temperature in the hydrolysis reaction is 20 100 C, preferably 40 90 C when a sulfonic acid ester is used as the raw material. There is no particular limitation on the reaction time. On the other hand, when a nitric acid ester is used as the raw material, the reaction temperature is 20 150 C, preferably 40 120 C. There is no particular limitation on the reaction time. Thus, the optical inversion of 4 hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone is effected to obtain an optically active 4 hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone having a configuration as an antipode of the optically active 4 hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone used as the starting raw material in a high yield and a high optical purity. The isolation of the optically active 4 hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone from the reaction liquid can be easily carried out by usual separation means such as, for instance, extraction, concentration, distillation and chromatography. A sulfonic acid ester of cyclopentenone represented by the general formula RSO₂X The 4 hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone used as the raw material in the present invention is an optically active substance in a form of 4 R isomer or 4 R isomer. As the sulfonyl halide which is another raw material, there can be illustrated, for example, alkylsulfonyl halides such as methanesulfonyl chloride, ethanesulfonyl chloride, propanesulfonyl chloride and butanesulfonyl chloride or bromides wherein chlorine in the above compounds is substituted with bromine phenylsulfonyl halides which may be substituted with alkyl, alkoxyl or halogen such as p toluenesulfonyl chloride, o toluenesulfonyl chloride, benzenesulfonyl chloride, p chlorobenzenesulfonyl chloride and p methoxybenzenesulfonyl chloride or bromides wherein chlorine in the above compounds is substituted with bromine or trifluoromethanesulfonyl chloride. The reaction of 4 hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone and sulfonyl halide is usually conducted by condensation in a solvent in the presence of a base. When a solvent is used in this reaction, there can be illustrated as the solvent those inactive to the reaction such as aliphatic or aromatic hydrocarbons, ether and halogenated hydrocarbons, for example, tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, ethyl ether, acetone, methyl isobutyl ketone, dichloromethane, benzene, toluene, chloroform, chlorobenzene, dimethyl formamide and ethyl acetate or mixture thereof as to the amount thereof to be used, there is no particular limitation. The necessary amount of sulfonyl halide to be used in this reaction is 1 equivalent or more per 1 equivalent of 4 hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone usually it is used in a range of 1 3 equivalents. As bases, there can be illustrated, for example, organic or inorganic basic materials such as triethylamine, pyridine, picoline, tri n butylamine, sodium carbonate, potassium carbonate, sodium hydrogencarbonate and potassium hydrogencarbonate as to the amount thereof to be used, there is no particular limitation however, usually it is 1 5 times in equivalent ratio based upon the amount of the raw material 4 hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone. The reaction temperature is usually in a range of 30 80 C, preferably 20 60 C. There is no particular limitation on the reaction time. After completion of the reaction, the sulfonic acid ester of cyclopentenone obtained can be isolated from the reaction mixture at a high yield by an operation such as extraction, concentration or chromatography. However, the product can be used in the form of the reaction mixture as it is in the following hydrolysis and inversion processes without particularly isolating the sulfonic acid ester. An optically active nitric acid ester of 4 hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone represented by the following formula The 4 hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone used as the raw material in the present invention is an optically active substance in a form of 4 R isomer or 4 S isomer. The reaction of 4 hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone and nitric acid is usually conducted by dehydration condensation in the presence of a solvent. When a solvent is used in this reaction, there can be illustrated as solvent inactive to the reaction such as aliphatic or aromatic hydrocarbons, ether and halogenated hydrocarbons or the mixture thereof, for example, tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, acetone, ethyl ether, toluene, chloroform and dimethylformamide. The amount thereof to be used is not critical. The necessary amount of nitric acid to be used in the reaction is 1 equivalent or more per 1 equivalent of 4 hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone, preferably in a range of 1.2 3 equivalents. Of course more amount can be used. As nitric acid, also fuming nitric acid may be used not to speak of normal concentrated nitric acid. Since this reaction is dehydration condensation, as the nitric acid to be used, one having a higher concentration is preferable usually one having a concentration of 60 wt. or higher is used. The use of a dehydrating agent is effective in this reaction. For instance, acetic anhydride or propionic anhydride may be used as a solvent as well as a dehydrating agent. It may be used together with any solvent. When such a dehydrating agent is used, it is preferable that the amount thereof to be used is 1 equivalent or more based upon the amount of 4 hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone or equimolar ratio or more based upon the water content of the nitric acid to be used. Also it is possible to use nitric acid having a high concentration without using the dehydrating agent. The reaction temperature is usually in a range of 40 50 C, preferably 30 35 C. There is no particular limitation on the reaction time. After completion of the reaction, the nitric acid ester of 4 hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone obtained can be isolated from the reaction mixture by a usual operation such as extraction, concentration or chromatography. However, the nitric acid ester can be used in the form of concentrated residue as it is in the following hydrolysis and inversion processes without particularly purifying the same. The present invention will be described with respect to the following Reference Examples and Examples hereinbelow. After 9.8 g of 4 S hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone optical purity 90 , 50 ml of dichloromethane and 11.9 g of pyridine are charged into a four necked flask equipped with stirrer, thermometer and dropping funnel, 12.6 g of methanesulfonyl chloride is added to the mixture at 10 C over 2 hours. After keeping the same temperature for 1 hour, the reaction liquid is washed successively with water, 2 aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate and water. After drying the organic substance layer over magnesium sulfate, it is concentrated. The concentrated residue is subjected to silica gel column chromatography using a mixture liquid of toluene ethyl acetate in a ratio of 5 3. Thus, 16.6 g of methanesulfonic acid ester of 4 S hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone is obtained. α 25 D 88.2 C 1, CHCl₃ n 25 D 1.4851 There is conducted the same reaction as that in Example 1 except that 9.8 g of 4 R hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone optical purity 96 is used instead of 4 S hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone. After the same aftertreatment and purification as in Example 1, there is obtained 16.4 g of methanesulfonic acid ester of 4 R hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone. α 25 D 94.6 C 1, CHCl₃ When the product is left as it is, crystallization takes place. m.p. 69 71 C In the same flask as that in Example 1, 4.9 g of 4 R hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone optical purity 96 , 5.9 g of pyridine and 30 ml of dichloromethane are charged. To this mixture is added 8.6 g of Propane sulfonyl chloride at 0 10 C over 1 hour. Then, the reaction is continued at 0 10 C for 2 hours and at 20 30 C for 4 hours. After completion of the reaction, the aftertreatment and purification are conducted in accordance with the procedure in Example 1 to obtain 9.5 g of Propane sulfonic acid ester of 4 R hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone. α 25 D 81.8 C 1, CHCl₃ n 25 D 1.4874 There is effected the same reaction as that in Example 3 except that 4 S hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone optical purity 97 is used instead of 4 R 4 hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone. After the same aftertreatment and purification as in Example 3, there is obtained propanesulfonic acid ester of 4 S hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone. α 25 D 82 C 1, CHCl₃ n 25 D 1.4869 In the same flask as that in Example 1, 4.9 g of 4 S hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone optical purity 97 , 6.9 g of triethylamine and 50 ml of tetrahydrofuran are charged. To this mixture is added 10.9 g of p toluenesulfonyl chloride at 0 10 C over 1 hour. The content is kept at the same temperature for 2 hours and at 25 30 C for 5 hours. After completion of the reaction, the reaction liquid is poured into ice water and extracted 2 times with 80 ml of ethyl acetate. The organic layers are collected and washed successively with water, 2 aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate and water. Then, the aftertreatment and purification are conducted in accordance with the procedure in Example 1 to obtain 11.9 g of p toluenesulfonic acid ester of 4 S hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone. α 25 D 16.0 C 1, CHCl₃ n 25 D 1.5648 There is effected the same reaction as that in Example 5 except that 4.9 g of 4 R hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone optical purity 89 is used instead of 4 S hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone. After the same aftertreatment and purification, there is obtained 11.7 g of p toluenesulfonic acid ester of 4 R hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone. α 25 D 14.8 C 1, CHCl₃ n 25 D 1.5638 In the same flask as that in Example 1, 4.9 g of 4 S hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone optical purity 90 , 60 ml of methyl isobutyl ketone and 6 g of pyridine are charged. To this mixture is added 10.6 g of benzenesulfonyl chloride at 5 10 C over 1 hour. The content is stirred at the same temperature for 2 hours and at 25 30 C for 4 hours. Them, the same aftertreatment and purification are conducted in accordance with the procedure in Example 1 to obtain 11.1 g of benzenesulfonic acid ester of 4 S hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone. α 25 D 15 C 1, CHCl₃ n 25 D 1.5610 After 8 g of methanesulfonic acid ester of 4 S hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone obtained in Example 1, 40 ml of water and 1.2 g of calcium carbonate are mixed, the mixture is heated with stirring at 60 C for 4 hours. After completion of the reaction, the reaction liquid is extracted 4 times with 60 ml of methyl isobutyl ketone, and the extracted organic layers are collected and concentrated. The concentrated residue is purified by silica gel chromatography using a mixture solution of ethyl acetate and toluene in a ratio of 1 1 by weight to obtain 4.19 g of 4 R hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone. α 25 D 78.2 C 1, methanol Optical purity 84 The optical putiry is measured by NMR after the product was converted to an ester of α methoxy α trifluoromethyl phenylacetic acid. After 9.8 g of 4 S hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone optical purity 97 , 50 ml of dichloromethane and 11.9 g of pyridine are charged into a four necked flask equipped with stirrer, thermometer and dropping funnel, 12.6 g of methanesulfonyl chloride is added to the mixture at 10 C over 2 hours. After keeping the same temperature for 1 hour, the reaction liquid is washed successively with water, 2 aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate and water. Separately, 30 ml of water and 9.6 g of calcium carbonate are charged in a four necked flask, and the solution is heated up to 60 70 C. To this solution is added dropwise the dichloromethane solution mentioned above over 1.5 hours. Dichloromethane distilled off is eliminated from the reaction liquid. After completion of dropwise adding, the mixture is stirred at the same temperature for 4 hours. After completion of the reaction, the reaction liquid is extracted 4 times with 100 ml of methyl isobutyl ketone. The oleaginous layer extracted is subjected to the aftertreatment and purification in accordance with the procedure in Example 8 to obtain 8.96 g of 4 R hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone. α 25 D 90.4 C 1, methanol Optical purity 94.1 Eight grams of methanesulfonic acid ester of 4 R hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone obtained in Example 2, 250 ml of water and 25 ml of dioxane are heated with stirring at 80 C for 3 hours. Then, the aftertreatment and purification are conducted in accordance with the procedure in Example 8 to obtain 4.11 g of 4 S hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone. α 25 D 84.0 C 1, methanol Optical purity 87.5 Eight grams of propanesulfonic acid ester of 4 S hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone obtained in Example 4, 30 ml of water and 5 g of calcium carbonate are heated with stirring at 60 C for 3 hours. Then, the aftertreatment and purification are conducted in accordance with the procedure in Example 8 to obtain 3.58 g of 4 R hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone. α 25 D 90.1 C 1, methanol Optical purity 93.5 Eleven grams of p toluenesulfonic acid ester of 4 S hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone obtained in Example 5, 30 ml of water, 30 ml of tetrahydrofuran and 10 g of barium carbonate are heated with stirring at 60 70 C for 3 hours. After completion of the reaction, insoluble content is eliminated by filtration. Then, the aftertreatment and purification are conducted in accordance with the procedure in Example 8 to obtain 4.12 g of 4 R hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone. α 25 D 88.3 C 1, methanol Optical purity 92 Eight grams of methanesulfonic acid ester of 4 R hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone obtained in Example 2 and 40 ml of water are heated with stirring at 60 C for 3 hours. After completion of the reaction, the aftertreatment and purification are conducted in accordance with the procedure in Example 8 to obtain 4.21 g of 4 S hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone. α 25 D 75.8 C 1, methanol Optical purity 79 After 4.9 g of 4 S hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone optical purity 90 , 30 ml of dichloromethane and 6 g of pyridine are charged in the same flask as that in Example 8, 10.6 g of benzenesulfonyl chloride is added over 1 hour. Then, the content is stirred at the same temperature for 2 hours and further, at 25 30 C for 4 hours. After completion of the reaction, the product is washed successively with water, 2 aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate and water. Separately, 40 ml of water and 4.8 g of calcium carbonate are charged in a four necked flask, and the solution is heated up to 60 70 C. To this solution is added dropwise the dichloromethane solution mentioned above over 1.5 hours. Dichloromethane distilled off is eliminated from the reaction liquid. After completion of dropwise adding, the mixture is stirred at the same temperature for 3 hours. Then, the aftertreatment and purification are conducted in accordance with the procedure in Example 9 to obtain 4.5 g of 4 R hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone. α 25 D 82.7 C 1, methanol Optical purity 86.6 After 19.6 g of 4 S hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone optical purity 90 and 60 g of acetic anhydride are charged in a reaction flask, 18.8 g of fuming nitric acid is added dropwise to the mixture at 15 C 5 C over 1 hour. After keeping the same temperature for 1 hour, the reaction mixture is poured into ice water and extracted with 160 ml of ethyl acetate. The organic substance layer is further washed successively with water, 2 aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate and water. After drying the organic substance layer over magnesium sulfate, it is concentrated. The concentrated residue is purified by silica gel chromatography with a mixture solution of toluene ethyl acetate mixing ratio by weight 5 2 to obtain 25.6 g of nitric acid ester of 4 S hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone. α 25 D 71.7 C 1. CHCl₃ n 25 D 1.4976 In 15 ml of tetrahydrofuran are dissolved 4.9 g of S 4 hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone optical purity 97 and 15 g of acetic anhydride, and 4.4 g of huming nitric acid is added dropwise to this solution at 10 C over 1 hour. After keeping the same temperature for 1 hour, the reaction mixture is poured into ice and extracted with 50 ml of ethyl acetate. Then, the aftertreatment and purification are conducted in accordance with the procedure in Example 15 to obtain 6.1 g of nitric acid ester of 4 hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone. α 25 D 76.7 C 1, CHCl₃ n 25 D 1.4968 In a reaction flask are charged 4.9 g of 4 R hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone optical purity 95 and 20 g of acetic anhydride, and the mixture is cooled down to 15 10 C. At the same temperature, 5 g of fuming nitric acid is added dropwise to the mixture over 30 minutes. After keeping the temperature for 1 hour, the aftertreatment and purification are conducted in accordance with the procedure in Example 15 to obtain 6.36 g of nitric acid ester of 4 R hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone. α 25 D 76.0 C 1, CHCl₃ n 25 D 1.4988 Six grams of nitric acid ester of 4 S hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone obtained in Example 15 and 30 ml of water are heated with stirring at 85 90 C for 3 hours. After completion of the reaction, the reaction mixture is neutralized with 4 aqueous solution of NaOH and extracted 4 times with 40 ml of methyl isobutyl ketone. The methyl isobutyl ketone layers are collected and concentrated. The concentrated residue is purified by silica gel chromatography using a mixture solution of ethyl acetate and toluene in a ratio of 1 1 by weight to obtain 3.7 g of 4 R hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone. α 25 D 50.2 C 1, methanol Optical purity 49 The optical purity is measured by NMR after the product was converted to an ester of α methoxy α trifluoromethyl phenylacetic acid. Four grams of nitric acid ester of 4 S hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone obtained in Example 15 and 20 ml of water are heated with stirring at 80 90 C for 4 hours. After completion of the reaction, the aftertreatment and purification are conducted in accordance with the procedure in Example 18 to obtain 2.52 g of 4 R hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone. α 25 D 52.4 C 1, methanol Optical purity 54.5 In the Example mentioned above, quite the same reaction is effected except that the treatment is conducted in such a manner that 20 ml of the aqueous solution shown in Table 1 is used instead of water in the hydrolysis reaction. As a result, the yield, optical rotation and optical purity of the compound obtained are as shown in Table 1. Six grams of nitric acid ester of 4 R hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone obtained in Example 17 and 25 g of 0.5 aqueous solution of hydrochloric acid are heated with stirring at 60 70 C for 4 hours. Then, the aftertreatment and purification are conducted in accordance with the procedure in Example 18 to obtain 3.62 g of 4 S hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone. α 25 D 36.4 C 1, methanol Optical purity 38.2 In a reaction flask are charged 9.8 g of 4 S hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone optical purity 97 and 30 g of acetic anhydride, and the mixture is cooled down to 15 10 C. At the same temperature, 9.4 g of fuming nitric acid is added dropwise to the mixture over 1 hour. After further keeping the same temperature for 1 hour, the reaction mixture is poured into ice water and extracted with 80 ml of dichloromethane. The dichloromethane layer is further washed successively with water, 5 aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate and water. To 100 ml of water heated to 85 90 C is added the dichloromethane solution mentioned above over 2 hours. Dichloromethane distilled off is eliminated from the reaction liquid. After completion of dropwise adding, the mixture is stirred at the same temperature for 4 hours. After completion of the reaction, the reaction liquid is extracted 4 times with 100 ml of methyl isobutyl ketone. Then, the aftertreatment and purification are conducted in accordance with the procedure in Example 18 to obtain 8.44 g of 4 R hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone. α 25 D 55.5 C 1, methanol Optical purity 59 With 30 ml of water and 3 g of calcium carbonate, 6 g of nitric acid ester of 4 S hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone obtained in Example 15 is heated with stirring at 70 90 C for 4 hours. After completion of the reaction, the reaction mixture is extracted with methyl isobutyl ketone. Then, the aftertreatment and purification are conducted in accordance with the procedure in Example 18 to obtain 2.2 g of 4 R hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone. α 25 D 61.6 C 1, methanol Optical purity 65 A mixture of 4 g of methanesulfonic acid ester of 4 S hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone obtained in Example 1 and 30 ml of 3M phosphoric acid buffer pH 7 is stirred at 60 C for 4 hours. After the reaction is over, the reaction mixture is extracted four times with 40 ml of methyl isobutyl ketone. The organic layers are collected and concentrated. The concentrated residue is purified by column chromatography with a mixture solution of ethyl acetate and toluene in a ratio of 1 1 by weight to obtain 2.1 g of 4 R hydroxy 2 cyclopentenone. α 25 D 82.9 C 1, methanol Optical purity 86.3