# LIPOSOMES CONTAINING STEROID ESTERS

## Claims
Pharmazeutische Zusammensetzung zur Verabreichung insbesondere an den Atmungstrakt, umfassend Liposome in Kombination mit einer Verbindung der Formel steht und R¹ eine gesättigte oder ungesättigte gerade oder verzweigte Alkylgruppe mit 11 19 Kohlenstoffatomen bedeutet und R für H, COCH₃, COC₂H₅, CO CH₂ ₂CH₃ oder CO CH₂ ₃CH₃ steht.

## Description
The present invention relates to anti inflammatory and antiallergic pharmaceutical compositions containing liposomes including pharmacologically active steroid esters, the steroid esters per se, processes for the preparation of the compositions and the esters and to methods of the pharmacological use of the compositions. The object of the invention is to provide an anti inflammatory and antiallergic pharmaceutical composition containing a liposome incorporated steroid ester for the local administration e.g. to the respiratory tract and thus obtaining a prolongation of the local retention of the drug and to direct the drug to specific target cells. It is well known that phospholipids, when suspended in an excess of aqueous solution, spontaneously forms multilamellar vesicles. Liposomes have been used as carriers for different kinds of pharmaceutically active compounds in order to improve drug delivery and to minimize side effects of the therapy. For this purpose steroid esters have been combined with liposomes as well. Biochem. J. 1976 Agents and Actions, vol. 12, 3 1982 describes hydrocortisone palmitate liposomes and the anti inflammatory effect thereof. Dexamethasone 21 palmitate has been reported to be administered as a fat emulsion in the treatment of arthritis EP 41772 . Synthesis and spectroscopic properties of dexamethasone 21 linoleate and dexamethasone 21 linolelaidate are reported and discussed Arzneim. Forsch. 26 1 7 1976 . International Journal of Pharmaceutics, 16 1983 , 305 318 describes the interaction of cortisone esters with liposomes. DE 2712030 discloses a pharmaceutical compositions comprising liposomes containing an antiinflammatory corticosteroid bearing an 11 hydroxy substituent and bearing a lipophilic substituent which is attached by means of a carboxylic ester linkage to the residue of a hydroxy group which itself is attached to the 21 position of the corticosteroid, the lipophilic substituent comprising an acyclic aliphatic chain of 7 to 18 carbon atoms. DE 2323215 discloses steroids esterified in 21 position with a straight alkyl having 1 to 12 carbon atoms. It is mentioned that the composition may be administered directly into an enclosed cavity. Liposomes for inhalation is otherwise only described in connection with compositions of liposomes and sodium chromoglycate EP 84898 . Liposomes administered by a systemic route are mainly retained by the liver, but also the spleen and the lung show a significant degree of retention Chem. Pharm. Bull. 30, 6 , 2248 2251 1982 . The usefulness of this form of administration is therefore limited when an anti inflammatory and antiallergic effect primarily in the respiratory tract is intended. According to the invention an anti inflammatory and antiallergic pharmaceutical composition containing steroid ester liposomes for local administration primarily to the respiratory tract is described. The composition according to the invention provides for an improvement of the therapeutic properties of the steroid ester by a prolongation of the local retention in the airways and a direction of the drug to specific target cells. More particular, the present invention is concerned with a pharmaceutical composition comprising liposomes containing novel esterified glucocorticoids. The novel esterified glucocorticoids are characterized by the general formula R¹ is a saturated or unsaturated, straight or branched alkyl group with 11 19 carbon atoms and R is H, The degree of inclosure of the steroid to the liposomes are enhanced by the esterificaiton of the steroids in the 21 position. The steroid esters of the formula I are new with the exception of budesonide 21 laurate and constitute a part of the invention. The preferred ester groups are moieties of The preferred steroid ester has the formula All budesonide esters can be obtained as a stereoisomeric mixture or as an epimer of the R or S type regarding the orientation of the substituents on the carbon atom at position 22. The steroid esters A. Reaction of a compound of the formula wherein Q has the definition given above, with a compound of the formula wherein R The esterification of the 21 hydroxy compound may be effected in known manner e.g. by reacting the parent 21 hydroxy steroid with an appropriate carboxylic acid, advantageously in the presence of trifluoroacetic anhydride and preferably in the presence of an acid catalyst e.g. p toluenesulphonic acid. The reaction is advantageously effected in an organic solvent such as benzene or methylene chloride the reaction being conveniently effected at a temperature of 20 100 C. B. Reaction of a compound of the formula wherein Q has the definition given above, with a compound of the formula wherein R The parent 21 hydroxy compound may be treated with the appropriate carboxylic acid halide or anhydride, preferably in a solvent such as halogenated hydrocarbone e.g. methylene chloride and advantageously in the presence of a base such as triethylamine or pyridine, preferably at a low temperature e.g. 5 to 30 C. C. Reaction of a compound of the formula wherein Q has the definition given above and X¹ is a leaving group, with a compound of the formula wherein R A salt of the appropriate carboxylic acid, for example, an alkali metal e.g. lithium, sodium or potassium salt or a triethylammonium or tetrabutyl ammonium salt may be reacted with the appropriate alkylating agent of the formula Q X The lecithins used in this invention have fatty acid chains of different lengths and therefore have different phase transition temperatures. Examples of lecithins used are those derived from egg and soybean and synthetic lecithins like dimyristoyl phosphatidylcholine DMPC , dipalmitoyl phosphatidylcholine DPPC and distearoyl phosphatidylcholine DSPC . By manipulation of the structural lecithins stable carriers with variable biodegradable properties could be formulated. This would enable one to prolong the release of the entrapped steroid ester. The extent of the interaction of the steroid ester with e.g. dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine DPPC vesicles is dependent on the ester chain length with increased interaction observed as the chain lengthens. The inclusion of cholesterol or cholesterol derivatives in liposome formulations has become very common due to its properties in increasing liposome stability. The initial stages of the preparation of liposomes according to the present invention may conveniently follow procedures described in the literature i.e. the components being dissolved in a solvent e.g. ethanol or chloroform which is then evaporated. The resulting lipid layer is then dispersed in the selected aqueous medium whereafter the solution is either shaken or sonicated. The liposomes of this invention preferably have a diameter of between 0.1 and 10 µm. In addition to the main liposome forming lipid s which is usually phospholipid, other lipids eg. cholesterol or cholesterol stearate in the amount of 0 40 w w of the total lipids may be included to modify the structure of the liposome membrane. In optimizing the uptake of the liposome a third component providing a negative charge eg. phosphatidic acid or a positive charge eg. stearylamine acetate or cetylpyridinium chloride may be incorporated. A wide range of proportions of steroid ester to lipid during formation may be used depending on the lipid and the conditions used. Drying, freeze drying or spray drying of the liposomes in the presence of lactose can be used with a lactose content in the range of 0 to 95 of the final composition. The composition according to the invention which is particularly preferred contains liposomes and budesonide 21 palmitate. The routes of administration involves powder aerosols, instillation, nebulization and pressurized aerosols. The invention is further illustrated by the following examples to which it is not limited. All the mass spectra have been obtained by chemical ionization mass spectrometry Budesonide 1 mmole was dissolved in pyridine 20 ml . Palmitoyl chloride 2 mmole was added at 0 C and then at ambient temperature overnight. While cooling the mixture with ice 2M hydrochloric acid was added until acidic reaction. The mixture was extracted with chloroform 3x50 ml . The organic phase was successively shaken with 5 sodium bicarbonate and water, dried The myristoyl chloride was synthesized by refluxing myristic acid 7.0 g and thionyl chloride 9 ml in trichloroethylene 100 ml for 3 hours. The solvent was then evaporated. Budesonide 2 mmole and myristoyl chloride 2.4 mmole in methylene chloride 40 ml was treated with triethylamine 2.4 mmole in methylene chloride 10 ml for 2 hours at room temperature. Methylene chloride was added and the organic phase was successively treated with lM HCl and water 3 x 100 ml . Chromatography Sephadex LH20 chloroform after drying Budesonide 21 mesylate 0.5 mmole prepared according to CA 57, 13842d 1962 , myristic acid 0.5 mmole and triethylamine 0.5 mmole in dimethylformamide 10 ml was stirred for 2 hours at 50 C. The solvent was evaporated in vacuo and using the same work up procedure as in method B gave after chromatography the title compound, identical with the compound isolated in method B. Budesonide 1 mmole , myristic acid 1 mmole and p toluenesulfonic acid 5 mg were refluxed in benzene 30 ml for 5 hours. The organic phase was successively shaken with 5 sodium bicarbonate and water, dried Reaction of budesonide 1 mmole with stearoyl chloride 1.0 ml in pyridine 6 ml according to Example 1 gave after preparative thin layer chromatography Silica gel 3 Reaction of budesonide 1.16 mmole and oleoyl chloride 1.4 mmole in methylene chloride 50 ml with triethylamine 1.4 mmole in methylene chloride 5 ml 2 hours at room temperature gave after work up example 3 and chromatography Silica gel hexane acetone 80 20 the title compound in 22 yield. Purity 98.7 . MS CI Reaction of betamethasone 2 mmole and lauryl chloride 2.4 mmole in dimethylformamide 20 ml with triethylamine 2.4 mmole in dimethylformamide 5 ml for 2 hours at room temperature gave after evaporation of dimethylformamide and work up example 3 and chromatography Silica gel hexane acetone 60 40 the title compound in 22 yield. Purity 92.7 . MS CI Reaction of betamethasone 2 mmole and myristoyl chloride 2.4 mmole in methylene chloride 40 ml and dimethylformamide 5 ml with triethylamine 2.4 mmole in methylene chloride 10 ml for 2 hours at room temperature gave after evaporation of dimethylformamide and work up example 3 and chromatography Silica gel hexane acetone 70 30 the title compound in 29 yield. Purity 97 . MS CI Reaction of betamethasone 0.5 mmole with palmitoyl chloride 1.0 mmole in pyridine 10 ml according to Example 1 gave after preparative thin layer chromatography Silica gel 3 Reaction of betamethasone 2 mmole and oleoyl chloride 3 mmole in dimethylformamide 20 ml with triethylamine 3 mmole in dimethylformamide 5 ml for 2 hours at room temperature gave after evaporation of dimethylformamide and work up example 3 and chromatography Sephadex LH20 chloroform the title compound. Purity 96.7 . MS CI Reaction of betamethasone 17 valerate 2 mmole and lauroyl chloride 2.4 mmole in methylene chloride 90 ml with triethylamine 2.4 mmole in methylene chloride 10 ml for 2 hours at room temperature gave after work up example 3 and chromatography Sephadex LH20 chloroform the title compound in 62 yield. Purity 97.8 . MS CI Reaction of betamethasone 17 valerate 2 mmole and myristoyl chloride 2.4 mmole in methylene chloride 90 ml with triethylamine 2.4 mmole in methylene chloride 10 ml for 2 hours at room temperature gave after work up example 3 and chromatography Sephadex LH20 chloroform the title compound in 62 yield. Purity 95.5 . MS CI Reaction of betamethasone 17 valerate 1 mmole and palmitoyl chloride 1.2 mmole in methylene chloride 50 ml with triethylamine 1.2 mmole in methylene chloride 10 ml for 2 hours at room temperature gave after work up example 3 and chromatography Sephadex LH20 chloroform the title compound in 63 yield. Purity 95.9 . MS CI Reaction of betamethasone 17 valerate 2 mmole and stearyl chloride 2.4 mmole in methylene chloride 90 ml with triethylamine 2.4 mmole in methylene chloride 10 ml for 2 hours at room temperature gave after work up example 3 and chromatography Sephadex LH 20 chloroform heptane ethanol 20 20 1 the title compound in 59 yield. Purity 92 . MS CI Reaction of flumethasone 1.0 mmole and lauroyl chloride 1.5 mmole in dimethylformamide 5 ml and methylene chloride 40 ml with triethylamine 1.5 mmole in methylene chloride for 2 hours at room temperature gave after evaporation of dimethylformamide and work up example 3 and chromatography Silica gel hexane acetone 70 30 the title compound in 64 yield. Purity 97.7 . MS CI Reaction of flumethasone 0.5 mmole with palmitoyl chloride 1.0 mmole in pyridine 10 ml according to Example 1 have after preparative thin layer chromatography Silica gel 3 Reaction of flumethasone 1.0 mmole and stearoyl chloride 1.5 mmole in dimethylformamide 5 ml and methylene chloride 40 ml with triethylamine 1.5 mmole in methylene chloride 10 ml gave after evaporation of dimethylformamide and work up example 3 and chromatography Silica gel hexane acetone 70 30 the title compound in 38 yield. Purity 90 . MS CI Reaction of flumethaosne 1.0 mmole and oleoyl chloride 1.5 mmole in dimethylformamide 5 ml and methylene chloride 40 ml with triethylamine 1.5 mmole in methylene chloride 10 ml gave after evaporation of dimethylformamide and work up example 3 and chromatography Silica gel hexane acetone 70 30 the title compound in 12 yield. Purity 98.2 . MS CI Reaction of flumethasone 17 propionate 1 mmole and lauroyl chloride 1.5 mmole in methylene chloride 40 ml with triethylamine 1.5 mmole in methylene chloride 10 ml gave after work up example 3 and chromatography Silica gel hexane acetone 70 30 the title compound in 33 yield. Purity 94.4 . MS CI Reaction of flumethasone 17 propionate 1 mmole and myristoyl chloride 1.7 mmole in methylene chloride 40 ml with triethylamine 1.7 mmole in methylene chloride 10 ml gave after work up example 3 and chromatography Silica gel hexane acetone 70 30 the title compound in 55 yield. Purity 96.7 . MS CI Reaction of flumethasone 17 propionate 2.8 mmole and palmitoyl chloride 3.3 mmole in methylene chloride 150 ml with triethylamine 3.3 mmole in methylene chloride 10 ml gave after work up example 3 and chromatography Sephadex LH20 chloroform the title compound in 14 yield. Purity 98.8 . MS CI Reaction of flumethasone 17 propionate 1.0 mmole and stearoyl chloride 1.5 mmole in methylene chloride 40 ml with triethylamine 1.5 mmole in methylene chloride 10 ml gave after work up example 3 and chromatography Silica gel hexane acetone 70 30 the title compound in 44 yield. Purity 95 . MS CI Reaction of flunisolide 0.5 mmole and lauroyl chloride 0.64 mmole in methylene chloride 20 ml with triethylamine 0.64 mmole in methylene chloride 5 ml gave after work up example 3 and chromatography Silica gel hexane acetone 70 30 the title compound in 65 yield. Purity 97.6 . MS CI Reaction of flunisolide 0.5 mmole and myristoyl chloride 0.65 mmole in methylene chloride 20 ml with triethylamine 0.65 mmole in methylene chloride 5 ml gave after work up example 3 and chromatography Silica gel hexane acetone 60 40 the title compound in 54 yield. Purity 98.5 . MS CI Reaction of flunisolide 433 mg , palmitoyl chloride 400 mg and triethylamine 500 mg in methylene chloride 8 ml for 2 hours at room temperature gave after work up example 3 and preparative thin layer chromatography Silica gel chloroform the title compound in 29 yield. Purity 98.5 . MS CI Reaction of flunisolide 0.46 mmole and stearoyl chloride 0.7 mmole in methylene chloride 40 ml with triethylamine 0.7 mmole in methylene chloride 10 ml gave after work up example 3 and chromatography Silica gel hexane acetone 70 30 the title compound in 53 yield. Purity 92 . MS CI Reaction of beclomethasone 17 propionate 40 mg , palmitoyl chloride 100 mg and triethylamine 50 mg in methylene chloride 5 ml for 2 hours at room temperature gave after work up example 3 and preparative thin layer chromatography Silica gel 3 Reaction of dexamethasone 17 propionate 4 mmole and palmitoyl chloride 8 mmole in methylene chloride 100 ml with triethylamine 8 mmole in methylene chloride 30 ml for 2 hours at room temperature gave after work up example 3 and chromatography Sephadex LH20 heptane chloroform ethanol 20 20 1 the title compound in 25 yield. Purity 96 . MS CI Synthetic dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine 45 mg , cholesterol 2.25 mg and budesonide 21 palmitate 4.5 mg are mixed in a glass tube. All components are dissolved in chloroform. Most of the solvent is evaporated by the use of N₂ and then under reduced pressure, which forms a thin film of the lipid components on the surface of the glass tube. An aqueous solution 0.9 NaCl is added to the lipids. Formation of the liposomes is performed at a temperature above the phase transition temperature of the lipids. The liposomes are formed by shaking or sonication of the solution with the probe of a sonicator. The resulting suspension contains liposomes ranging from very small vesicles to 2 µm in size. The preparation of the liposomes is performed according to Example 1, where the aqueous solution contains 10 lactose. The ratio between lactose and lipid is 10 1. The liposome suspension is frozen on dry ice and lyophilized. The dry product is micronized resulting in particles with a mass mean aerodynamic diameter MMAD of about 2 µm. Intratracheal instillation of Sephadex beads into rats leads to bronchial and also to alveolar inflammation. This provokes interstitial lung edema, which increases the lung weight, and the inflammation can be graded as the increase of the lung weight compared to a saline instilled control group. The lung edema formation can be counteracted by pretreatment with glucocorticoids, preferably by local administration as intratracheal instillation or as inhalation. Ideally an anti inflammatory action should be obtained only at the site of glucocorticoid application in the lung, but not in the rest of the body as this in long term treatment can lead to therapy limiting systemic side effects. The differentiation between glucocorticoid actions in the treated lung region and outside this area can be tested in the following way. Sprague Dawley rats 225 g were slightly anaesthetized with ether and the glucocorticoid test preparation in liposomes suspended in saline in a volume of 0.5 ml kg was instilled into just the As stated above an ideal glucocorticoid preparation should have a very high glucocorticoid activity at the site of application in lung, but with low activity outside this area. Therefore, in the selected model an optimal preparation should more or less completely block the edema in the locally pretreated left lung lobe, but have much less activity in the right lung half and no significant inhibitory action on the spleen weight and the body weight gain. It has been considered more important to search for a high degree of separation between the local activity exemplified with the left lung to the other activities than to search for a high absolute potency high activity per mg drug for the action in the left lung. In the test protocol used, doses were selected leading to a more or less complete block of the edema in the left lung and at these dose levels the extent of the other activities was estimated. At the selected dose 7 9 rats were tested in parallel. Mean The results of the comparative studies are given in Table 1. The pharmacological profile of the new compounds was compared to that of budesonide selected as a conventional glucocorticoid having some local activity as judged in skin tests and to those of budesonide 21 valerate, dexamethasone 21 palmitate, fluocinolone acetonide 21 palmitate and hydrocortisone 21 palmitate representing compounds outside the scope of the invention . Budesonide, budesonide 21 valerate and hydrocortisone 21 palmitate did not fulfil the requirement of a very high local activity only up to 38 reduction of edema in left lung . Dexamethasone 21 palmitate and fluocinolone 21 palmitate completely blocked the left lung edema, but this was coupled to as high activity in the other lung half as well as to significant reduction of body weight gain and to spleen Table 1 . Thus, none of the tested preparations falling outside the scope of the invention had selective glucocorticoid activity for the site of application in lung. The preparations of the new compounds of the invention had a much more selective activity for the application site in lung. They all more or less completely blocked the edema of the left lung minimum 87 protection for beclomethasone 21 palmitate 17 propionate . This was surprisingly coupled to only a low or moderate protective activity in the other lung maximally about 45 protection and to no statistically significant reduction of body weight gain or spleen. Table 1.