# Composition and method to process polymers including ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene.

## Abstract
The present invention is a composition and method to process an ultrahigh molecular weight polymer, preferably a vinylic polymer, from about 0.1 to about 25 percent by weight based on the weight of the polymer of a material containing more than one acid group, and from about 0.01 to about 2.5 percent by weight based on the weight of the polymer of a polyfunctional Lewis base.

## Claims
What is claimed is I. A composition comprising an ultrahigh molecular weight polymer, from about 0.1 to about 25 percent by weight based on the weight of the polymer of a material containing more than one acid group, and from about 0.01 to about 2.5 percent by weight based on the weight of the polymer of a polyfunctional Lewis base. 2. The composition of claim 1 wherein the polymer has a weight average molecular weight of at least 500,000. 3. A composition comprising ultra molecular weight polyethylene, from about 0.1 to about 25 percent by weight based on the weight of the ultrahigh molecular polyethylene of a material containing more than one acid group, and from about 0.01 to about 2.5 percent by weight based on the weight of the ultrahigh molecular polyethylene of a polyfunctional Lewis base. 4. The composition of claim 3 wherein the material containing more than one acid group is a copolymer of alpha olefin and an alpha,beta ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid having a number average molecular weight of from 500 to 10,000. 5. The composition of claim 3 wherein the material containing more than one acid group is selected from the group consisting of citric acid, oxalic acid, malonic acid, succinic acid, glutaric acid, adipic acid, pinilic acid, suberic acid, azelaic acid, sebacic acid, maleic acid, fuaric acid, phthalic acid, dimer acids, trimer acids, and mixtures thereof. 6. The composition of claim 5 wherein the Lewis base is selected from metal organic salts, metal inorganic salts, dihydric alcohols, glycerol, and compounds containing amine groups, hydroxide groups, oxide groups, acetate groups, methoxide groups, oxylate groups, nitrate groups, carbonate groups and bicarbonate groups. 7. A method comprising the step of melt processing a composition comprising an ultrahigh molecular weight polymer, from about 0.1 to about 25 percent by weight based on the weight of the ultrahigh molecular weight polymer of a material containing more than one acid group, and from about 0.01 to about 2.5 percent by weight based on the weight of the ultra high molecular weight polymer of a polyfunctional Lewis base. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein step of melt processing is extruding the composition through an extruder having a die. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the molten composition is at from about 1350C to about 4500C, and at a pressure at the die of the extruder of from about 10 kg Cm2 to about 600 kg cm2. 10. The method of claim 8 wherein the composition in uniformly mixed prior to the step of being extruded. 11. The method of claim 7 wherein the ultrahigh molecular weight polymer is ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene.

## Description
COMPOSITION AND METHOD TO PROCESS POLYMERS INCLUDING ULTRAHIGH MOLECULAR WEIGHT POLYETHYLENE Background of the Invention This invention is in the field of polymer compositions, and processes more particularly, the invention relates to ultrahigh molecular weight polymer compositions, particularly ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene compositions, and methods of melt processing such as continuously forcing the composition through an aperture such as by extrusion. Ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene is described as high density polyethylene with an extremely high molecular weight in the range of two to six million, by Hug, D. P., UHMW polyethylene , Modern Plastics Encyclopedia, 1979 80, Vol. 56, No. 10A, pp. 74 76 published by McGraw Hill and hereby incorporated by reference. It is noted in this article that ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene cannot be processed by conventional plastic processing techniques. The long chain molecules do not melt or flow in a normal thermoplastic manner. The Hug article notes that a method has been developed to injection mold ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene in a specially designed machine which is a modification of a standard scew injection molding machine. Other new processes have been disclosed by which special equipment can be used to process ultrahigh polyethylene. As indicated in the Hug article there are a variety of known ultrahigh molecular weight compositions.Filler and polymer modifiers can be added to enhance certain properties. U.S. Patent No. 4,420,580 discloses that the detrimental effect of inorganic metal fillers on the impact strength of polyolefin resins is reduced by the addition of a copolymer of ethylene and an alpha,beta ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid, such as ethylene acrylic acid, to a melt blend of polyolefin resin con taining the inorganic filler. The ethylene copolymer is added to compatibilize or couple the filler into the polyolefin resin. This disclosure is not directed to ultrahigh molecular weight polymers nor is there a recognition of the use of the inorganic metal filler and acid copolymer to lubricate the polyolefin. Summary of the Invention The present invention is a composition comprising an ultrahigh molecular weight polymer, preferably a vinylic polymer, from about 0.1 to about 25 percent by weight based on the weight of the polymer of a material containing more than one acid group and from about 0.01 to about 2.5 percent by weight based on the weight of the polymer of a polyfunctional Lewis base. A particularly preferred embodiment of the present invention is an ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene composition having from about 0.1 to about 25 , and preferably .1 to 10 by weight of the ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene of a material containing more than one acid group. The composition also contains from about 0.01 to about 2.5 be weight based on the weight of the ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene of a polyfunctional Lewis base. The material containing more than one acid group is preferably a polymer. Preferred polymers containing more than one acid group include polymers such as the copolymer of alpha olefin and an alpha,beta ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid having a number average molecular weight of from 500 to 10,000. Non polymeric acids can also be used. The Lewis base preferably has a lower molecular weight than the material containing more than one acid group. A variety of Lewis bases can be used with preferred bases being metal salts of fatty acids. The method includes melt processing a polymer composition comprising a polymer, preferably an ultrahigh molecular weight polymer, an acid containing material such as the copolymer of an alpha olefin and an alpha,beta ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid having a number average molecular weight of from 500 to 10,000, and a polyfunctional Lewis base. The method of the present invention can include the step of continuously forcing the polymer, preferably ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene, composition through an aperture. The composition can be continuously extruded using conventional thermoplastic melt processing extrusion equipment. DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS The present invention is a composition comprising an ultrahigh molecular weight polymer, preferably a vinylic polymer, from about 0.1 to about 25 percent by weight based on the weight of the polymer of a material containing more than one acid group, and from about 0.01 to about 2.5 percent by weight based on the weight of the polymer of a polyfunctional Lewis base. By more than one acid group, it is meant that the acid containing material has molecules containing at least two acid groups. This can include mixtures of molecules where only some of the molecules contain more than one acid group. By polyfunctional Lewis base, it is meant that the Lewis base can be a polyvalent cation, or polyfunctional molecules containing at least two basic groups where the basic groups can be monobasic or polybasic.This can include mixtures of molecules where only some of the molecules contain more than one basic group. A particular preferred embodiment of the present invention is a composition comprising ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene and from about 0.1 to about 25, preferably 0.1 to 10, and more preferably 0.5 to about 5 by weight based on the weight of the ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene of a material containing more than one acid group. The composition contains from about 0.01 to about 2.5 and preferably 0.1 to 1.5 by weight of a Lewis base. Polymers which are useful in the composition and method of the present invention include but are not limited to vinylic polymers. For the purpose of the present invention vinylic polymers are polymers produced by the polymerization of monomers containing the repeating unit R2C CR2 wherein each of the R s can be the same or different. Preferred R s can include but are not limited to the following radicals hydrogen, alkyl, allyl, aryl, and halides including bromides, chlorides and fluorides. Useful polymers are polyolefins such as polypropylene and polyethylene, polystyrene, polyvinyl chloride, chlorotrifluoroethylene copolymer, tetrafluoroethylene copolymers, and ABS copolymers of acrylonitrile, butadiene, and styrene . Other useful polymers include polymers formed from monomers containing at least one double bond RC CR such as diene polymers such as conjugated dienes.A useful conjugated diene type polymer is polybutadiene. The polymers can be copolymers. The method of the present invention is particularly useful where the polymer is an ultrahigh molecular weight polyolefin such as polyethylene, polypropylene, or ultrahigh molecular weight polymers, preferably polybutadiene. The ultrahigh molecular weight polymer, preferably polyethylene, useful in the composition of the present invention preferably have a weightverage molecular weight in the range of about five hundred thousand to about six million, preferably from one million to about five million, and more preferably two million to five million. The composition of the present invention will enable ultra high molecular weight polymers, preferably polyethylenes with weight average molecular weights higher than six million to be used. Ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene can be produced by a modifiedZiegler system similar to that used to produce conventional high density polyethylene. The polymer is considered a thermoplastic although melt processing is difficult. The ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene is typically supplied as a fine powder. The material containing more than one acid group is preferably a polymer having more than one acid group.The preferred polymers include the copolymer of an alpha olefin and an alpha,beta ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid having a number average molecular weight from about 500 to about 10,000 and preferably from 1,000 to 5,000, and most preferably 1,000 to 3,500. The polymer containing more than one acid groups preferably has a Brookfield viscosity of 1500C of up to 30,000 centipoises with the preferred viscosity being from 100 centipoises to 10,000 and most preferably 150 to 800 centipoises. The alpha,beta ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acids which can be copolymerized with the alpha olefin preferably have 3 to 8 carbon atoms. Examples of such acids, include acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, ethacrylic acid, itaconic acid, maleic acid, fumaric acid and monoesters of other dicarboxylic acids, such as methyl hydrogen maleate, methyl hydrogen fumarate, ethyl hydrogen fumarate, and maleic anhydride, which is considered to behave like an acid and be an acid in the present invention. The alpha olefin is preferably ethylene. The concentration of the ethylene in the copolymer is at least 50 mol percent, and preferably above 80 mol percent. A preferred copolymer acid is a copolymer of ethylene and an alpha,beta ethylenically unsaturated monocarboxylic acid is acrylic acid. The ethylene acrylic acid copolymer has an acid number in the range from about 1 to about 180, with an acid number from about 40 to 160 being preferred, and an acid number from about 40 to 120 being most preferred. The acid number is determined by the number of milligrams of potassium hydroxide necessary to neutralize one gram of acid. The average number molecular weight is from about 500 to about 10,000 preferably from 1,000 to 5,000, and more preferably from 1,000 to 3,500. Table I below characterizes preferred ethylene acrylic acid copolymers. TABLE I Hardness Density Brookfield Wt. Co Softening Pt. dirni g cc Viscosity Acid Acrypolymer ASIM O28 ASTM ASTM commat 1400C. No mg licAcid C. F. D 5 D 1505 cups KOH g Acid A 108 226 2.0 0.93 500 40 5 B 102 215 4.0 0.93 650 80 8 C 92 198 11.5 0.93 650 120 15 The low molecular copolymer acids of the present invention can be prepared by any suitable process known in the art. An example method is described in U.S.Patent No. 3,658,741, which is incorporated herein by reference. The material containing more than one acid group preferably contains at least 2 acid groups and can be an organic acid of, preferably an organic carboxylic acid. Preferred organic carboxylic acids include but are not limited to citric acid, oxalic acid, malonic acid, succinic acid, glutaric acid, adipic acid, pinilic acid, suberic acid, azelaic acid, sebacic acid, maleic acid, fuaric acid, phthalic acid, dimer acids, trimer acids, and mixture thereof. Dimer acids and trimer acids are high molecular weight dibasic and tribasic acids typically produced by the dimerization of unsaturated fatty acids at mid molecule and usually contains 36 carbon atoms. Trimer acids are similarly made and contain 3 carboxylic acids groups and about typically 54 carbon atoms. The polyfunctional Lewis base is preferably selected from metal organic salts, preferably the metallic salts of carboxylic acids or anhydrides. The Lewis base can also include metal inorganic salts, dihydric alcohols, glycerol, and compounds containing amine groups, hydroxide groups, oxide groups, acetate groups, methoxide groups, oxylate groups, nitrate groups, carbonate groups and bicarbonate groups. A preferred Lewis base is selected from the metalic salts of fatty acids and are preferably Group II and III metal salts of fatty acids. Preferred metals include magnesium, calcium, barium, zinc, cerium II , and aluminum, with aluminum, zinc and calcium being more preferred, and zinc and aluminum being the most preferred metal salt. The preferred anion containing compound of the Lewis base compound is a fatty acid based material such as stearic acid. Where the acid containing material is polymeric, it is preferred that theLewis base have a lower molecular weight than the acid. The composition of the present invention can contain conventional additives useful in ultrahigh molecular weight polymeric compositions. Such additives are discussed in the above references article by Hug.Typically, such compositions can include but are not limited to a variety of fillers and polymer modifiers.Included in these materials is graphite, fibers, talc, powdered metals, glass fibers and beads. Other materials such as thermal stabilizers, antioxidents, flame retardants, anti static agents, and colorents including pigments and dyes can be added. The method of the present invention comprises the step of melt processing the above described ultrahigh molecular weight polymer composition. The method can also be used with lower molecular polymers. For the purposes of the present invention, melt processing is defined as a method used to deform a thermoplastic polymer above its melting point. Typically, melt processing is used to convert the polymer from one shape to another, or to blend or mix other materials with the polymer. Nonlimiting examples of melt processing methods in the definition of melt processing include molding such as blow molding and injection molding, stamping, calendering, compression molding, extrusion, mixing, roll processing and the like. The method includes the forming of molded articles, sheets, films and fibers. The present invention includes a method of continuously forcing a polymer, including an ultrahigh molecular polymer, composition of the present invention through an aperture. The polymer is preferably at temperatures above its melting point. For the purposes of the present invention, the aperture can be the outlet of an extruder and in particular an extruder die or an injection mold, the gap of mixing rolls and the like where shearing is likely to be encountered. The composition undergoes shear as it passes through the aperture, and can also undergo shearing in a means which continuously forces the composition through an aperture such as an extruder. The method of the present invention has been found to be particularly useful where the polymer composition is a ultrahigh molecular weight polymer, preferably polyethylene composition. This composition can be melt processed using conventional melt processing equipment which is generally useful to melt process thermoplastics. As indicated in the Background of the Invention and in the Hug article ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene resin can not be processed by conventional plastic processing techniques. Special designed machinery must be used. The composition of the present invention can be processed on conventional thermoplastic processing equipment. In particular the composition can be continuously forced through an aperture such as by continuously being extruded. The composition can be extruded by any number of methods including extrusion by screw methods for injection molding or through a die.The ultra high molecular weight polyethylene can be extruded through a single screw extruder. The composition can be melt processed at from 1350C to about 4500C, preferably 1500C to about 3000C, and more preferably 1700C to about 2400C. The composition can be processed in an extruder at pressures of from about 10 kg cm2 to 600 kg cm2 Extrusion pressure depends in part upon the size of the aperture or die through which the extruded material is passing. A preferred extrusion pressure range is from about 100 to about 400 kg cm2. It has been found that the composition of the present invention is preferably premixed to form a uniform mixture of the polymer, preferably ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene, composition, the at least one acid containing material and the Lewis base. The materials should be premixed under conditions so that a uniform mixture is formed with a minimum of reaction between the acid containing material and the Lewis base. The premixing can take place by physically mixing the materials below the polymer melting point. It has been found that the composition performs best when the component materials including the polymer, such as ultra high molecular weight polyethylene, the acid containing material, such as a copolymer of ethylene and acrylic acid, and a Lewis base, such as aluminum stearate are uniformly mixed at about the temperature either of the melting point of the acid or the melting point of the base. Premixing is preferably conducted in a shear type mixer where the temperature increases with time. The composition performs best when the mixture is conducted up to either about the melting temperature of the acid or up to about the melting temperature of the base. It is preferred to premix the materials at a temperature just above the melting point of the acid containing material, particularly where the acid containing material is a polymeric material. In this way the Lewis base and the polymer in powder form can form a homogeneous mixture with the acid containing material. The particles of the ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene are coated by the acid and the base. It is believed that during the melt processing of the compositing of the present invention there is some neutralization of the acid containing material by theLewis base which results in a certain amount of ionic crosslinking. It is thought that this ionic crosslinked material acts as both an internal lubricant and an external lubricant to enable the composition to be melt processed in conventional thermoplastic melt processing equipment. In the preferred composition and process where the composition comprises an ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene, an ethylene and carboxylic acid copolymer and a lower molecular Lewis base. It is believed that the acid goes to the surface and is continually neutralized by the base to form an ionomer at or near the surface of the ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene which acts as the lubricant.The lubricant is continually forming as it is sheared away. It has been found that processing aids can added to the composition prior to melt blending to enable the powder to flow more freely into the hopper. A particularly preferred processing aid is oxidized polyethylene. Preferred oxidized polyethylene found useful in the composition of the present invention is oxidized polyethylene having a number average of from 500 to 20,000, preferably 1,000 to 8,000 and more preferably from 1,000 to 5,000 and an acid number of from 10 to 40, and preferably 15 to 30, mg of potassium hydroxide required to neutralize one gram of oxidized polyethylene. The oxidized, polyethylene can act both as a processing aid and an acid containing material. The specific gravity of preferred oxidized polyethylene ranges from 0.915 to about 0.99 and preferably 0.97 to 0.99. The oxidized polyethylene can be prepared by methods known in the art. Oxidized polyethylene is useful in the present invention and a typical method is the oxidation of polyethylene in the manner described in the U.S. Patent No. 3,322,711 and 3,129,667 which are hereby incorporated by reference. For the purpose of the present invention number average molecular weights are indicated as measured by on a vapor phase osmometer. The procedure which can be used is disclosed in Kaufman and Falcetta, Introduction to Polymer Science and Technology an S.P.E. Textbook pp. 173, 174, Wiley Interscience Publication, 1970 hereby incorporated by reference. A preferred composition for use in the present invention comprises, in parts by weight, from 85 to 99 parts by weight of ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene, from .5 to 10 parts by weight of a copolymer of ethylene and an alph,beta ethyleneically unsaturated carboxylic acid having from 3 to 8 carbons and a number average molecular weight of from 500 to 5,000, and aGroup II or III, preferably zinc or aluminum, salt of an organic acid, preferably a fatty acid. The preferred method to process this composition is to make a preblend at a temperature up to, between about 400C below and about 150C above the melting temperature of the copolymer acid but below the melt temperature of the ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene and of the Lewis base.For the preferred composition the preblend is made at a temperature from 85 to 1000C in a water cooled high intensity mixer. The Lewis base preferably is a finely divided material having a particle size of up to 50 microns of up to 20 microns. The most preferred Lewis bases are zinc stearate, and aluminum stearate, having such a particle size range. Several examples are set forth below to illustrate the nature of the invention and the manner of carrying it out. However, the invention should not be considered as being limited to the details thereof. All parts are by weight unless otherwise indicated. EXAMPLES 1 4 Compositions were prepared by blending the components in a high intensity Brawn mixer at 1250C. Three grams of each composition were placed on the bottom platen of a hydraulic platen press in a small pile having a diameter of about 4 cm. The press conditions were 1900C with 88,960N 20,000 pounds force applied for 10 minutes. The composition flattened to form a pancake . The diameter of the pancake is an indication of composition flow properties. The greater the diameter, the easier the composition will flow and more likely it will extrude. The pancake procedure is a quick method used to screen a large number of materials. The rate of flow of material using this method is slower than expected using typical melt blending techniques.Results are reproducible but effects of the slow flow rates must be considered. The ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene used was HB 301 produced by Hercules, Inc. This material has a weight average molecular weight of about 2,000,000. Additives include zinc stearate having an average particle size of 20 micrometers and ethylene acrylic acid copolymer, and optionally oxidized polyethylene. The ethylene acrylic acid copolymers included A Ce 580 and A C 5120 produced by Allied Corporation.The A C 580 had an ASTM E 28 softening point of 1020C a hardness measured according to ASTM D 5 of 4.0 dmm a density measured according to ASTM D 1505 of 0.93 g cc a Brookfield viscosity commat 1400C of 650 centipoises, an acid number of 80 mg KOH required to neutralize 1 gram of the copolymer acid and 8 weight percent acrylic acid. The A C 5120 has the following properties measured according to the same test procedures as the A Ce 580 a softening point of 920C a hardness of 11.5 dmm a density of 0.93 g cc a viscosity of 650 centipoises, an acid number of 120 mg KOH g copolymer acid, and 15 weight percent acrylic acid. The oxidized polyethylene used was A C 316 produced by Allied Corporation. The A C 316 has the following properties measured according to the same test procedures as the ACe 580 a softening point of 1400C a hardness of 0.5 dmm a density of 0.98 g cc a Brookfield viscosity at 1500C of 30,000 centipoises and acid number of 16 mgKOH g of oxidized polyethylene. Results are summarized on the following Table II with the compositions in parts by weight TABLE II Ccmpl Come2 Exl Ex2 Ex3 Ex4 Canp3 Comp4 CampSHB 301 100 99.5 97.5 98.5 97.5 97.0 98 97 97.5 AC 580 2.0AC 5120 1.0 2.0 2.0 2 Ac 316 2 1 2Zn St .5 .5 .5 .5 1.0 .5Pancake dia cm 11.4 11.4 13.0 12.1 14.8 13.7 11.5 12.3 11.3 The above results show little or no improvement in flow over Comparative 1 when adding a Lewis base such as zinc stearate alone Comparative 2 or an acid containing material such as oxidized polyethylene Comparative 3 . The addition of the acid copolymer and the zinc stearate improved the pancake flow in each of the Examples 1 4. Of interest was Comparative 4 showing an improvement of flow with only acid containing materials.This is believed to be an aberration in the pancake screening test. As shown in Comparative 6 below using A C 5120 copolymer acid in a ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene composition results in improved pancake flow but little improvement in performance using a melt flow index plunger type extruder. It is believed that the A C 5120 improves the flow at very low flow rates expected upon forming a pancake. Comparative 5 showed no improvement of flow using A C 316 oxidized polyethylene. The reason for this is not clear. However, the flow has been found to be improved when usingA C 316 and aluminum stearate. EXAMPLES 5 9 Compositions were prepared by first uniformly mixing them on a Papenmeiert 10 liter high intensity friction or shear mixer at 1000 rpm until the composition reached the temperature shown in Table III. The compositions were then cooled to room temperature and extruded using a melt flow index plunger type extruder. The melt index machine was manufactured byDavenport as Ser. No. UT 3106. The composition was extruded at 1900C under a load of 37.19 kg for 30 minutes through a die 3 cm long. The first cm of the die was a cone tapering from 1 cm in diameter to 2 mm in diameter. The second two cms was a cylinder, 2 mm in diameter. The results were measured in gms 30 minutes. Each composition was formed into a 3 gram pancake according to the procedure of Examples 1 4. Results are summarized in the following Table III. TABLE III Comp 6 Ex 5 Ex 6 Ex 7 Ex 8 Ex 9HB 301 97.9 97.5 97.5 97.5 97.5 97.5A C 5120 2.1 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0Zn St .5 .5 .5 .5 .5Mix to OC 105 Rm T 5 min 50 90 115 130Flow W30 min 0.01 0.02 0.39 .44 0.1 .03Pancake dia cm 14.5 14.28 13.9 14.0 14.3 13.9 The high pancake result in Comparative 6 does not correlate with the poor flow rate for the reasons discussed with respect to Comparative 4. Otherwise the flow rate improves. It is of interest to note that the best results were obtained at premix to 900C, slightly below the softening point of A C 5120 920C . EXAMPLE 10 14 Examples 5 9 were repeated except that the 97.25 parts HB 301 and 2 parts A C 5120 were premixed to 1050C followed by the addition of 0.75 parts of ZnSt and mixed to the temperature shown in Table IV. The flow results are summarized on Table IV. TABLE IV Ex. 10 Ex. 11 Ex. 12 Ex. 13 Ex. 14Mix to OC 80 90 100 107 115Flow g 30 min 0.1 0.06 0.03 0.012 0.0 EXAMPLES 15 16 A composition of 97.5 parts of HB 301, 0.5 parts of zinc stearate, 1 part of A C 5120, and was dry blended Ex 15 . In Example 16, 1.0 part of A C 316 replaced 1.0 part of HB 301. The A C 316 was added to help improve flow of the powder into the extruder hopper.The compositions were extruded through a laboratoryModel 25D Brabender single screw extruder having a 2 cm long die. The diameter of the die was varied from 3,4 and 8 mm. The extruder was operated at 2.5 kg m and 10 to 20 rpm. The temperature profile in the extruder wasZone 1 45 C, Zone 2 800C, Zone 3 2600C and Die 2702750C. The extrudate in both Examples 15 and 16 was in the form of rods and was satisfactory. It is believed the use of a longer die will enable a reduction in die temperature. EXAMPLES 17 19 Compositions containing varying amounts of HB 301 ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene, A C 5120 ethylene acrylic acid copolymer, and zinc stearate were premixed to 950C using the Papenmeier mixer described inExamples 5 9. The compositions were extruded in the same manner as in Examples 15 and 16. The extruder was operated at 10 to 20 rpm. Table V summarizes the compositions and extrusion conditions. TABLE V Ex 17 Ex 18 Ex 19HB 301 98.5 97.5 97.5Zn St 0.5 0.5 0.5A C 5120 1.0 2.0 2.0ExtrusionZone 1 OC 50 45 45Zone 2 OC 75 90 90Zone 3 OC 225 265 265Die OC 285 275 275Die dia mm 4 8 8 The extrusion results in the above examples indicate that melt processing of the compositions can be satisfactorily conducted. The results in Example 17 were very good. Extrusion in Example 18 was possible but a die size has to be optimized. A longer die appears to be required for ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene as compared to conventional thermoplastic polymers for extrusion through a die. In Example 19 the extrusion was satisfactory. During the evaluation, poor results were found when the composition was not sufficiently premixed. EXAMPLE 20 A composition containing 96.5 parts by weight ofHB 301, 0.5 parts of aluminum stearate 3 and 3.0 parts of A C 5120 was premixed in the Papermeier mixer seeExamples 5 9 to 1300C. The mixture was then granulated using the Brabender extruder see Examples 15 16 operating at Zone 1 500C Zinc 2 500C, Zone 3 2600C, and the die at 260 2650C and 150 rpm. The extrusion was conducted rapidly to prevent the premix from reacting and crosslinking. The die was 3 mm in diameter and the extrudate which was spongy, and swelled to about 4 mm in diameter. The extrudate was granulated so that it could be easily feed to the injection molding machine. The injection molding machine was an Aarburg All Rounder,Injection Molder, Model No. 221 55 250. The mold was a dog biscut or dumbbell type mold with the bar part being 2 mm x 2 mm. The composition was injected into both ends of the dumbbell creating a weld line in the center. The composition was first run without the mold to see if it would extrude. The injection molder was set to 2600C and the composition extruded satisfactorily. The mold was attached, the injection molder was set to 2000C, and the mold was at room temperature 250C . Dumbbells were satisfactorily molded. The temperature of the injection mold rose to 2500C due to the shearing. During operation one piece was molded every 20 seconds. A dumbbell was pulled on an Instron stress strain machine at 5 cm min resulting in a tensile strength of 350 kg cm2. EXAMPLE 21 A composition containing 97.5 parts of ABS, 2.0 parts of A C 5120, and 0.5 parts of aluminum stearate 3 was evaluated. The ABS had a melt flow index according to ASTM Test No. 1238 at 2300C and 3.8 kg of 1.6 g 10 min. and Vicat Softening of 1900C. The composition processed satisfactorily on a two roll lab mill. Sticking was observed at 2600C. While exemplary embodiment of the invention have been described, the true scope of the invention is to be determined from the following claims