# Hair tonic composition.

## Abstract
A hair tonic composition containing as an active in gredient a compound represented by the general formula I ,

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A hair tonic composition characterized by containing as an active ingredient a compound represented by the general formula I EMI15.1 R1 and R2 wherein R1 and R2 may be the same or different and each are a lower alkyl group, M is an inorganic or organic salt having a valency of 1 or 2, and n is 2 when Mhas a valency of 1 and n is 1 when M has a valency of 2. 2. A hair tonic composition according to Claim 1, which contains as an active ingredient a compound represented by the general formula I wherein R1 and R2 each are a lower alkyl group selected from the group consisting of CH3, Chug, i C3H7 and i C4Hg M is a metal atom of a valency of 1 or 2 selected from the group consisting of K, Na, Ca, Ba, Cu, Mn, Co, Ni and Fe, and n is 2 whenM is a metal atom of a valency of 1 and n is 1 when M is a metal atom of a valency of 2. 3. A hair tonic composition according to Claim 2, which contains as an active ingredient a compound represented by the general formula I wherein R1 and R2 each are i C3H7, M is Na and n is 2. 4. A hair tonic composition according to Claim 2, which contains as an active ingredient a compound represented by the general formula I wherein R1 and R2 each are i C3H7, M is K and n is 2. 5. A hair tonic composition according to Claim 2, which contains as an active ingredient a compound repre R1 by the general formula I wherein R1 and 2 sented by the general formula I wherein R1 and R each are i C3H7, M is Zn and n is 1. 6. A hair tonic composition according to Claim 2, which contains as an active ingredient a compound represented by the general formula I wherein R1 and R2 each are CH3, M is Mn and n is 1. 7. A hair tonic composition according to Claim 2, which contains as an active ingredient a compound represented by the general formula I wherein R1 and R2 each are C2H5, M is Ca and n is 1. 8. A hair tonic composition according to any ofClaims 1 to 7, wherein the amount of active ingredient is 0.01 to 10 by weight based on the total amount of hair tonic composition.

## Description
HAIR TONIC COMPOSITIONFIELD OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to a hair tonic composition. More particularly, the present invention relates to a hair tonic composition characterized by containing as an active ingredient a compound represented by the following general formula EMI1.1 wherein RÚ and Rê may be the same or different and each are a lower alkyl group, M is an inorganic or organic salt having a valency of 1 or 2, and n is 2 when M has a valency of 1 and n is 1 when M has a valency of 2.In the description and claims lower indicates a straight or branched chain alkyl group having from 1 to 6 carbon atom. DESCRIPTION OF THE PRIOR ART Many hair ,tonics each containing various active ingredients have been known. They contain, for example, disinfectants, keratolytEics, hormones, vitamins, amino acids, vasodilators, etc. and are used for purposes of prophylaxis or treatment of alopecia. These hair tonics are claimed to be effective for prophylaxis and treatment of dandruff, pruritus, excessive hair falling, etc. and to promote hair growth and development. However, there is no hair tonic available yet which has a fully satisfactory effect. As a result of research on substances having hair tonic effects as well as hair growing effects, the present inventors found that compounds represented by the general formula I have these effects without exhibiting toxicity. Based on this finding, the present invention has been accomplished.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION An object of the present invention is to provide a hair tonic composition capable of preventing excessive hair falling of humans. Another object of the present invention is to provide a hair tonic composition which is applied to those animals whose wools or furs are utilized by humans such as sheep, fox and mink and which promotes the growth of wools or furs of the animals.DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS The compounds represented by the general formula I which are used as an active component of the hair tonic composition of the present invention are known inJapanese Patent Publication No. 44327 1974 as agricultural and horticultural fungicides effective for Piricularia oryzae BRI. et. CAV. and Hypochnus sasakii SHIRAI. Shown in Table 1 are typical examples of the compounds represented by the general formula I , however, the active ingredients used in the hair tonic composition of the present invention are not restricted to the compounds shown in Table 1. General formula I EMI3.1 The active ingredients used in the hair tonic composition of the present invention are not restricted to the compounds shown in Table 1 and further include other salts, namely, a inorganic salts such as ammonia salts and the like, b organic salts, and c these salts having crystal water. Table 1EMI4.1 tb SEP No. SEP R SEP R SEP M SEP Color SEP and SEP decomposing SEP point tb SEP 1 SEP i C3H7 SEP i C3H7 SEP Na SEP Light SEP yellow. SEP Begins SEP to SEP decom tb SEP pose SEP at SEP 700C SEP and SEP decomposes tb SEP vigorously SEP at SEP 800C. SEP tb SEP 2 SEP i C3H7 SEP i C3H7 SEP K SEP Light SEP yellow. SEP Begins SEP to tb SEP decompose SEP at SEP 700C SEP and SEP decomposes tb SEP vigorously SEP at SEP SEP 120 C. SEP tb SEP 3 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP Ca SEP Light SEP yellow. SEP Decomposes SEP in tb SEP white SEP fume SEP at SEP 2900C SEP or SEP above. tb SEP 4 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP Cu SEP Dark SEP black. SEP Melts SEP at SEP 1460 SEP to tb SEP 1480C. tb SEP 5 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP Mn SEP Light SEP brown. SEP Turns SEP black SEP and tb SEP decomposes SEP at SEP 2710C SEP or SEP above. tb SEP 6 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP Co SEP Liver SEP brown. SEP Carbonizes SEP and tb SEP decomposes SEP at SEP 2450 SEP to SEP 2510C. SEP tb SEP 7 SEP C2H5 SEP C2U5 SEP Ba SEP Light SEP yellow. SEP Decomposition tb SEP point SEP is SEP higher SEP than SEP 3000C tb SEP 8 SEP C2H5 SEP C2H5 SEP Ca SEP Yellow. SEP Decomposes SEP at SEP 2850C SEP or tb SEP above. tb SEP 9 SEP C2H5 SEP C2H5 SEP Fe SEP Light SEP brown. SEP Turns SEP black SEP at tb SEP 2500C SEP or SEP above. tb SEP 10 SEP C2H5 SEP C2H5 SEP Ni SEP Black. SEP Decomposes SEP at SEP 2890C tb SEP or SEP above. tb SEP 11 SEP n C3H7 SEP n C3H7 SEP Ca SEP Yellow. SEP Turns SEP brown SEP and tb SEP decomposes SEP at SEP 2750C SEP or SEP above. tb SEP 12 SEP i C3H7 SEP i C3H7 SEP Mn SEP Brown. SEP Turns SEP black SEP at SEP 2630C tb or SEP above. tb SEP 13 SEP i C3H7 SEP i C3H7 SEP Fe SEP Light SEP brown. SEP Decomposes SEP at tb SEP 2490C SEP or SEP above. tb SEP 14 SEP i C3H7 SEP i C3H7 SEP Zn SEP Yellow. SEP Turns SEP brown SEP and tb SEP decomposes SEP at SEP 28O0C. SEP tb SEP 15 SEP i C3H7 SEP i C3H7 SEP Cu SEP Black. SEP Decomposes SEP at SEP 1220 SEP to tb SEP 1240C. SEP tb SEP 16 SEP n C4H9 SEP nC4H9 SEP Ba SEP is SEP higher SEP Decomposition SEP tb SEP point SEP is SEP higher SEP than SEP 300 C. SEP tb EMI5.1 tb 17 SEP 1 SEP i C4H9 SEP i C4Hg SEP Fe SEP Liver SEP brown. SEP Turns SEP black SEP and tb SEP decomposes SEP at SEP 2510C SEP or SEP above. tb 18 SEP i C4Hg SEP i C4Hg SEP Cu SEP Blackish SEP blue. SEP Melts SEP and SEP sub tb SEP limates SEP at SEP 1610 SEP to SEP 1650C. SEP tb 19 SEP SEP t C4Hg SEP t C4Hg SEP Ca SEP Yellow. SEP Turns SEP grayish SEP white tb SEP at SEP 300 C. tb The hair tonic composition of the present invention can be prepared in general forms of hair care products such as hair tonic, hair lotion, hair cream, emulsion, shampoo, rinse and the like, according to ordinary methods. As to the base materials for the hair tonic composition of the present invention, there are used, for example, alcohols, oils and fats, surfactants and the like.Other active ingredients such as resorcinol, hormones, vitamins, amino acids, menthol and other perfumes may also be used in the hair tonic composition of the present invention. The amount of active ingredient used in the hair tonic composition of the present invention may be optionally determined so as to meet various usage requirements, and can generally be 0.01 to 10 by weight based on the total amount of hair tonic composition. The hair tonic composition of the present invention can be applied to the hair portion 1 to 3 times a day. Examples of test and formulations of the hair tonic composition of the present invention are illustrated below. However, the hair tonic composition of the present invention is not restricted only to these tests and formulations.TEST 1 Hairs of 6 Hartley strain guinea pigs male and body weight of about 300 g were cut at their backs by the use of a hair clipper so as not to injure their skins.To a portion of a 3 cm x 3 em square which was a part of the hair removed back of each guinea pig and at one side of the two divided by the spine, there was coated 0.3 ml of an ethanol solution containing 1 of the compoundNo. 14 mentioned in Table 1, once a day for 7 consecutive days. To another portion of a 3 cm x 3 cm square which was at the other side of the two divided by the spine of each guinea pig, there was coated 0.3 ml of an ethanol solution not containing the compound No. 14, in the same frequency and for the same period. After completion of the coating, each 20 har is were depilated from the above two portions and their lengths were measured. These lengths minus the lengths at the start of the test were lengths elongated during the test period. The results are shown in Table 2. Table 2EMI7.1 tb SEP Length SEP of SEP hair SEP elongated tb SEP Average SEP of SEP 20 SEP hairs tb Guinea SEP Mn SEP Average SEP tb pig SEP No. SEP Hair SEP tonic SEP difference tb SEP composition SEP mm SEP tb SEP of SEP the SEP present SEP Control tb SEP invention tb SEP 1 SEP 5.315 SEP 5.111 SEP 0.204 tb SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP SEP 5.275 SEP 4.894 SEP 0.381 tb SEP 3 SEP 4.670 SEP 4.475 SEP 0.195 tb SEP 4 SEP 5.140 SEP 4.905 SEP 0.235 tb SEP 5 SEP 4.443 SEP 4.143 SEP 0.300 tb SEP 6 SEP 1 SEP 4.372 SEP 4.170 SEP 0.202 tb Shown next is a test wherein hair tonic compositions of the present invention were applied to moustaches of 12 healthy human males.TEST 2 To an ointment base prepared by mixing a hydrophilic ointment and a white petrolatum at a 1 1 ratio was added 0.1 of the previously mentioned compound No.1 or 14, whereby two kinds of creams were prepared. An appropriate amount of either of these creams was rubbed into the right or left moustache portion of each examinee 2 to 3 times a day and, after each application, the cream applied moustache portion was thoroughly massaged.The same amount of the above ointment base per se was rubbed into another moustache portion at the same frequency per day in the same manner. This treatment was continued for 10 consecutive days. Hairs of respective moustache portions were cut off with a safety razor.The lengths of 20 hairs of each portion were measured, and their averages as well as the difference between the two averages were calculated. The results are shown inTable 3. Table 3EMI8.1 tb SEP Examinee SEP Hair SEP length SEP Average SEP of tb SEP Male SEP 20 SEP hairs SEP mm tb COE SEP tb pound SEP Hair SEP tonic SEP mm SEP tb SEP No, SEP composition SEP Control SEP SEP Cmm SEP tb SEP No. SEP No. SEP SEP Age SEP of SEP the SEP present tb SEP invention tb SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 30 SEP 3.495 SEP 3.310 SEP 0.185 tb SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 30 SEP 3.535 SEP 3.515 SEP 0.020 tb SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 30 SEP 3.428 SEP 3.212 SEP 0.216 tb SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 40 SEP 3.663 SEP 3.354 SEP 0.310 tb SEP 14 SEP 5 SEP 40 SEP 3.935 SEP 3.530 SEP 0.405 tb SEP 14 SEP 6 SEP 40 SEP 3.640 SEP 3.100 SEP 0.540 tb SEP 14 SEP 7 SEP 33 SEP 3.402 SEP 3.395 SEP 0.007 tb SEP 14 SEP 8 SEP 33 SEP 3.565 SEP 3.190 SEP 0.375 tb SEP 14 SEP 9 SEP 37 SEP 3.495 SEP 3.145 SEP 0.350 tb EMI9.1 tb 14 SEP 10 SEP 30 SEP 3.475 SEP 3.460 SEP 0.015 SEP tb 14 SEP 11 SEP 31 SEP 3.250 SEP 2.915 SEP 1 SEP 0.335 tb 14 SEP 12 SEP 38 SEP 3.210 SEP 2.730 SEP 1 SEP 0.480 tb In the above Test 2, a significant difference between the use of the hair tonic composition of the present invention and the non use of the same composition was clearly observed in 9 examinees of total 12.TEST 3 The previously mentioned compound No. 14 was mixed into corn starch at a proportion of 10 . Each 10 mg of the resulting powder was encapsulated, whereby capsules containing the compound No. 14 were prepared. At the time of use of these capsules, the powder in capsule was taken out onto a am and dissolved in 1 ml of a diluent consisting of water ethanol propylene glycol 5 4.5 0.5 and a perfume on the palm. The resulting solution was thoroughly coated on the head of each examinee by both hands. This treatment was conducted 2 times a day for several consequent weeks. The results are shown inTable 4. Table 4EMI10.1 tb SEP Examinee SEP Period SEP of tb SEP coating SEP Hair SEP tonic SEP effect tb No. SEP Age SEP day tb SEP The SEP number SEP of SEP falling SEP hairs tb SEP 1 SEP 34 SEP 24 SEP decreased. SEP tb SEP 2 SEP 31 SEP 19 SEP The SEP number SEP of SEP falling SEP hairs tb SEP decreased. tb SEP 3 SEP 31 SEP 41 SEP The SEP gloss SEP of SEP hairs SEP improved. tb SEP The SEP number SEP of SEP falling SEP hairs tb SEP 4 SEP 52 SEP 40 SEP decreased. tb In the following test, the toxicity of the compound No. 14 was examined.TEST 4 1 The compound No. 14 dissolved in olive oil was orally administered to 10 SD rats male, 6 week old at a ratio of 5,000 mg per kg of body weight. Thereafter, the conditions of these rats as well as their mortality observed for 14 days. As a result, there was neither toxication nor mortality. Therefore, the LD50 value of the compound No. 14 is larger than 5,000 mg kg. 2 Separately, hairs were depilated from Japanese white rabbits at their backs by the use of a depilatory cream. Then, the depilated portion of each rabbits was coated with 1 or 5 mg of the compound No. 14 for 24 hours.Thereafter, the skin condition of the compound No. 14 coated portion was observed for 7 days. There was no change of skin at any of the compound No. 14 coated portions.Accordingly, it was proved that the compound No. 14 shows substantially no primary stimulation to the skin. Next, examples of recipe of the hair tonic composition of the present invention are shown, however, the hair tonic composition of the present invention is not restricted only to these examples.EXAMPLE 1 Compound No. 1 0.5 g Salicylic acid 1.0 g Resorcinol 2.0 g Glycerine 2.0 g Phenol 1.0 g Castor oil 1.0 g Lavender oil 10.0 ml The above materials are dissolved in ethanol to make a lotion of a total volume of 100 ml.EXAMPLE 2 Compound No. 2 1.0 g Peppermint oil 0.6 g Glycerine 15.0 ml Lavender oil 10.0 ml The above materials are dissolved in ethanol to make a lotion of a total volume of 100 ml. EXAMPLE 3 Compound No. 14 0.1 g Calamine 8.0 g Sodium alginate 1.25 g Glycerine 4.0 g Methyl p hydroxybenzoate 0.2 g Zinc oxide 8.0 g Tween 20 Ctradename, for a poly oxyethylene sorbitan monolaurate 0.01 g The above materials are dissolved in purified water to make a lotion of a total volume of 100 ml.EXAMPLE 4 Compound No. 1 0.5 g Potassium soap 8.0 g Peppermint oil 0.6 g Lavender oil 10.0 ml The above materials are dissolved in ethanol to make a lotion of a total volume of 100 ml.EXAMPLE 5 Compound No. 14 0,5 g Ethyl p hyoybenzoate 0.025 g Propyl p tydroXbenzoate 0.015 g Sodium laurylsulfate 1.5 g Propylene glycol 12.0 g Stearyl alcohol 22.0 g White petrolatum 25.0 g Purified water 38.96 g The above materials are melted and mixed to make an ointment of a total weight of 100 g. EXAMPLE 6 Compound No. 8 0.5 g Polyethylene glycol 400 57.5 g Polyethylene glycol 1500 20.0 g Polyethylene glycol 4000 22.0 g The above materials are melted and mixed to make an ointment of a total weight of 100 g.EXAMPLE 7 Compound No. 1 0.1 g Purified lanolin 5.0 g Bleached bees wax 5.0 g White petrolatum 89.5 g The above materials are melted and mixed to make an ointment of a total weight of 100 g.EXAMPLE 8 Compound No. 14 0.5 g Glycerine monostearate 18.0 g Spermaceti 5.0 g Diethylene glycol monoethyl ether 5.0 g Peppermint oil 1.1 g Purified water q.s. The above materials are melted and mixed to make an ointment of a total weight of 100 g.EXAMPLE 9 Compound No. 5 0.5 g High viscosity type carboxymethyl Cellulose 2.0 g Glycerine 80.0 g Refined water 17.5 g The above materials are melted and mixed to make an ointment of a total weight of 100 g.