# METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR THE CALORIMETRY OF CHEMICAL PROCESSES

## Claims
Kalorimeter für die Verwendung bei der Untersuchung chemischer Prozesse, mit

## Description
Chemical reactions are accompanied by the liberation or absorption of energy in the form of heat, and this heat of reaction is a definite, reproducible characteristic of a given chemical change. Morever, chemical reactions occur at widely differing rates of speed, and the characteristic time variation of the reaction rate is referred to as reaction kinetics . The measurement of reaction heat and reaction kinetics is a fundamental part of the experimental development of large scale chemical manufacturing processes, relating to the optimization and safety of the process and providing design parameters for the manufacturing facility. Any apparatus used for measuring heat is called a calorimeter and numerous prior art calorimeters have been described covering a wide variety of specific applications. An example of a prior art calorimeter applied to the study of chemical reactions is described in US A 3994164. US A 4 130016 discloses an adiabatic calorimeter apparatus for measuring the energy change in a chemical reaction, which comprises an oven chamber, a reaction vessel which is positioned in the oven chamber and is adapted to contain one or more chemical reactants, the oven chamber containing a gas atmosphere which surrounds the reaction vessel, a jacket cover which is fitted to the reaction vessel and is in contact with the outer wall surface of the reaction vessel, a temperatur measuring means positioned in the reaction vessel, a temperature recorder unit which is electrically connected into the temperature measuring means, a first heater means which is positioned in the reaction vessel, a second heater means which is attached to an outer wall surface of the jacket cover, and a temperature controll system. A disadvantage of this apparatus is, that is cannot maintain isothermal conditions. The invention herein described relates to a new and improved calorimeter designed and optimized for the study of chemical manufacturing processes on a laboratory scale. It is capable of providing accurate measurements of heats of reaction and instantaneous reaction rates. This apparatus offers superior performance and safety of use. The incorporation of a chemically inert, metallic reaction vessel rather than a glass vessel provides a greatly reduced thermal time constant due to the one thousand fold higher thermal conductivity of the metal. This allows the calorimeter to respond more quickly to thermal fluctuations in the reaction mass, thus lowering the thermal detection threshold and raising the saturating heat flux level. The provision of a thermostatting mechanism for several chemical feed streams external to the reaction vessel provides accurate measurement of the characteristic reaction heat. In the absence of such a mechanism, the reaction mass will be heated or cooled due to the different temperatures of the chemical feed streams. This causes significant measurement errors. The provision of an adiabatic shield makes the present invention impervious to environmental temperature fluctuations, whereas the prior art calorimeter is sensitive to ambient temperature changes. From the point of view of operator safety, the present invention uses a five to ten fold smaller reaction mass, avoids completely the use of fragile glass vessels, and provides an outstanding pressure relief mechanism of novel design with the largest possible vent orifice for the reaction vessel. These design qualities combine to create a superior calorimeter with a greatly reduced potential explosion hazard, providing a scientific instrument which can be operated with utmost safety in a conventional chemical laboratory. Therefore, the present invention constitutes an advance in the technology of reaction calorimetry and satisfies a need which exists in the art. Subject matter of the present invention is a calorimeter for use in examining chemical processes according to claim 1. Preferred embodiments of this apparatus are subject matter of claims 2 to 6. A further subject matter of the present invention is a method according to claim 7 or 8 of operating the apparatus according to the present invention. In accordance with this invention, a device for use in calorimetric analysis of chemical reactions comprises a cylindrical reaction vessel made of a chemically inert metal and equipped with a gas tight cover, an agitator mechanism, a temperature sensor, a calibration heater, several inlet pipes, and a two stage pressure relief mechanism. The reaction vessel is surrounded by an adiabatic shield to eliminate heat flow through the walls and cover of the vessel, thus minimizing thermal noise and errors due to undesired heat conduction paths. Heat can be added to or subtracted from the reaction mass to compensate for the heat of reaction and hold the system isothermal by use of a heat exchanger located under the flat base of the reaction vessel. This heat exchanger comprises a thin insulated metal foil resistive heater attached to a rigid metal plate, the underside of which is cooled by a circulating fluid flowing at a very high rate and maintained at a constant temperature below that of the reaction mass. The electrical power dissipated in the control heater is adjusted to exactly eliminate heat flow from the vessel to the circulating fluid heat sink and to maintain constant the temperature of the reaction mass. When the reaction begins, the power dissipation in the control heater is adjusted to offset the heat flux due to the heat of reaction. Thus, the change in the power dissipation in the control heater is linearly proportional to the rate at which heat is evolved or absorbed by the reaction, where the slope of this proportionality is related to the ratio of the thermal resistances between the heater and the circulating fluid and between the heater and the reaction mass, and the intercept depends upon the temperature differential between the vessel and the circulating fluid. Therefore, the characteristics of the calorimeter can be adjusted during design by selection of values for the above mentioned parameters to maximize sensitivity or, conversely, the saturating heat flux. The thermal characteristics of the calorimeter are further controlled and adjusted by selection of materials of high and low thermal impedance and appropriate dimensions to channel the flow of heat in a desired direction, and, also by the use of thermal barriers such as the aforementioned adiabatic shield. In the preferred embodiment of the invention, a digital computer is commissioned to acquire the thermal measurements and provide control of the electrical power supplied to the various heat exchanger devices, as well as controlling the delivery of feedstocks and the agitation rate, and performing the calculation and graphical presentation of thermal and kinetic results. In an alternative embodiment of the invention, an analog controller is used in each area where electronic control is required, and the measurements are displayed on an analog recording device. The design of the preferred embodiment of the invention is optimized for isothermal operation, as heretofore described. However, both adiabatic and temperature scanning modes of operation are also possible. In the isothermal mode, heat is removed from or added to the reaction mass to offset the heat of reaction and maintain the temperature constant. In the adiabatic mode, heat flow to or from the reaction mass is prevented, the heat of reaction remains in the reaction mass, and the temperature of the reaction mass is allowed to rise exponentially as dictated by the thermodynamics and kinetics of the reaction, by tracking the reaction temperature with the adiabatic shield and circulating oil temperatures. In the temperature scanning mode, the temperature of the reaction mass is increased in a stepwise, linear, or other predetermined fashion as required, by raising the temperature of the circulating fluid and adiabatic shield according to a temperature program. The chemical reaction calorimeter was fabricated on a design principle of cylindrical symmetry, as shown in FIGURE 1. Viewed from above, the device appears as a set of concentric metal canisters acting as thermal barriers serving different purposes as discussed below. The heart of the calorimeter is a removable reaction vessel, 1 , and its cover, 2 , which are fabricated from a chemically resistant metal. In the prototype calorimeter, zirconium was used to ensure corrosion resistance to strong mineral acids and bases. The reaction vessel is equipped with a number of devices which are attached to the cover, 2 . A high precision platinum resistance thermometer RTD , 3 , is used to sense the temperature of the reaction mass with a resolution of 5 x 10 ⁴ The temperature of the reaction mass is carefully regulated by a heat exchanger device made up of heating and cooling elements. This design principle of simultaneous heating and cooling is used in all thermostated regions of the calorimeter to ensure superior temperature control and a short thermal time constant. The vessel s heating is achieved by a circular metal foil resistance heater insulated with 0.00254 cm 0.001 inch polymer film, and bonded to the topside of a metal disk, 8 . The underside of the metal plate, 8 , is cooled by a circulating fluid low viscosity silicone oil in the prototype flowing from an inlet pipe, 9 , flowing radially through the gap between the two circular plates, 8 and 10 , and discharging from the outlet pipe 11 . The circulating fluid, serving as a heat sink, is supplied from and returned to a reservoir which is simultaneously heated and refrigerated to provide excellent temperature regulation. The constant temperature difference between the circulating oil and the chemical reaction mass is an important design parameter, as discussed below. All heat flow to or from the reaction vessel takes place by conduction through its flat base, which is in intimate contact with the heat exchanger mechanism. Heat flow through the walls and cover of the vessel is effectively eliminated by the provision of an adiabatic shield, which maintains the temperature of the space surrounding the reaction vessel equal to the temperature inside the vessel. The adiabatic shield is an air oven contained within a metal canister, 12 , and its cover, 13 . An insulated foil heater, 14 , is bonded to the outer wall of canister, 12 , and is cooled by compressed air flowing from numerous ducts, 15 . The cooling air is contained by a second canister, 16 , and cover, 17 , and exhausted through a vent pipe not shown . The temperature of the air space inside the adiabatic shield is sensed by a second platinum resistance thermometer RTD , 18 , and maintained at the temperature of the chemical reaction mass by electronic control. The heat exchanger mechanism and adiabatic shield canisters are supported by a base block, 19 , fabricated from polytetrafluoroethylene, chosen because of its high thermal impedance and suitability for high temperature operation. The body of the heat exchanger, 20 , is also made of this material. The entire calorimeter is housed in an outer metal shell, 21 , equipped with a cover, 22 , and base, 23 . The space inside this shell is filled with glass fiber insulation, 24 . The assembly and disassembly of the calorimeter is extremely simple since the inner covers, 13 and 17 , are attached to the outer cover, 22 , by tubular stand offs, 25 . Thus, all three covers are removed and inserted as a single assembly, as shown in FIGURE 2 . The agitator shaft, 5 , which is supported by integral needle bearings and lip seals, 26 , is broken just above the reaction vessel cover, 2 , and rejoined by a gear tooth coupler, 27 . The upper gear of the coupler is removed with the outer and inner covers, 13 , 17 and 22 , and drive motor, 5 , and shaft, 8 . The lower gear of the coupler is attached to the lower shaft and remains with the reaction vessel, 1 , which can be removed separately. During operation of the calorimeter, fluid chemicals can be added sequentially or simultaneously to the reaction vessel through multiple inlet pipes, 28 . The temperature of these titrants is pre equilibrated in a tubular heat exchanger not shown which is in intimate contact with the adiabatic shield canister, 12 . This heat exchanger is a stainless steel pipe coiled and bonded to the inside of the canister, and a separate pipe is used for each reactant. The chemicals are mechanically pumped from external reservoirs through the equilibration pipes and into the reaction vessel. Pressure relief venting of the reaction vessel is achieved on two levels. A small spring loaded relief valve not shown in FIGURE 1 is installed in the cover, 2 , and provides a 1 8 inch 1 inch 2,54 cm diameter vent to relieve small overpressures. In the event of a large overpressure exceeding the capacity of the primary vent, the entire cover, 2 , of the reaction vessel will move upwards, providing the largest possible vent orifice. The movement of the cover is made possible by the spring loaded cover retainers, 29 , and the bellows coupling, 30 , for the agitator shaft. The vented vapours exit through pipes in the base of the calorimeter not shown in FIGURE 1 . In the preferred embodiment of the calorimeter, all control and measurement functions are performed using a digital computer to simplify operator interaction and to provide flexibility in the design and application of the control algorithms. In addition, a microprocessor based controller was incorporated to facilitate timing, switching, and control functions, as well as communication to the host computer. FIGURE 3 illustrates the block diagram for the electronic control system. Two different digital interface buses are used the 16 bit parallel interface allows communication between the computer and the microprocessor, while a standard IEEE 488 interface 8 bit parallel byte serial was used for communication between the computer and several peripheral devices supplied with this interface protocol. The microprocessor controller comprises a central processing unit CPU , a real time clock interrupt generator, CLOCK , a digital interface controller I O , a relay multiplexer MUX , four high stability digital to analog converters DAC , random access memory RAM , and erasable programmable read only memory EPROM . The microprocessor provides a convenient means of implementing the interconnection and switching of system components. The acquisition of data, decision making and control functions are performed independently by the digital computer. A high precision digital voltmeter is used to make voltage and resistance measurements throughout the system, and is switched between the various input lines by the relay multiplexer MUX under computer control. The resistance measurements of the platinum RTD s are true 4 wire measurements with D.C. offset compensation for junction effects, providing a resistance thermometer resolution of 5 x 10 ⁴ Electrical power to the heaters is supplied by three programmable power supplies, which are programmed from the computer via three of the four DAC s. The fourth DAC is used to control and program the oil bath temperature. These 16 bit DAC s provide a control resolution of 2¹⁶ or one part in 65,536. For the calorimeter described above to provide quantitative thermochemical information, regardless of whether the operating mode is isothermal or temperature scanned, it is necessary for the temperature difference between the chemical reaction mass and the circulating oil heat sink to remain constant. The operation under isothermal conditions is most easily understood. If the temperature set point for the reaction is T Under these When heat is generated in the reaction vessel at a rate q Since equation 1 indicates that the baseline q Equation 4 suggests that the change in power dissipation in the control heater, Δq where the constant These observations lead to a number of interesting speculations. The maximum power dissipation in the calorimeter is limited by R The dynamic characteristics of the calorimeter can be deduced by constructing a formulation for a resistance capacitance equivalent circuit which contains an exponential term l exp t T , where T is the system time constant. However, as discussed below, the response of the calorimeter is not limited by this natural time constant due to the use of a control algorithm which gives a greatly reduced effective time constant. The computer program used to control the calorimeter acquires the temperature measurements from the various sensors, relates the actual temperatures to the desired temperatures set points , and causes the appropriate response to correct any differences. The mathematical relationship between the error signal ΔT set point actual temperature and the corresponding power level in the particular control heater is called the control algorithm. For the adiabatic shield, a conventional PID proportional integral derivative algorithm is used and found to be satisfactory. The functional form of this algorithm is Where ΔT The coefficients of the three terms in Equation 6 , K₁, K₂, and K₃, were optimized experimentally to give a rapid response with minimum overshoot and ringing. The use of the PID algorithm forces the calorimeter to respond more quickly than the natural time constant would suggest. The effective time constant can be made a small fraction of the natural constant by adjustment of the coefficients in Equation 6 . The control algorithm for the vessel control heater is novel and was found by experience to give the best control. A PI type of algorithm no derivative term with a quadratic dependence on the vessel error signal ΔT where ΔT The effect of this algorithm is to make the heater power q The operation of the chemical reaction calorimeter is based on a power compensation principle. In order to establish the validity of the heat generation data provided by the calorimeter, it was necessary to determine the linearity of the controller response by calibration and to determine the accuracy of the heat flow measurement by examination of a known chemical system. The linearity of the controller power response was determined using a vessel which contained 150 g of water. In this experiment the temperature difference between the reaction vessel and circulating fluid was maintained at 30K. Electrical power was applied to the calibration heater over a range of 0 to 40 watts. The power response of the control heater was found to be a linear function of calibration heater power, as shown in FIGURE 4. The composite thermal resistances, R The value of the calibration constant K see Equation 5 is The performance of the calorimeter was tested by examination of an acid base neutralization reaction. Four replicate determinations of the enthalpy of neutralization of The regions of the plot delineated by a b, c d, e f, and g h represent the baseline for the experiment. The power excursions in regions b c and f g are due to electrical power dissipated in the calibration heater, and the response in region d e is due to the acid base neutralization reaction. Because the rate of this proton exchange reaction is extremely fast relative to the response time of the calorimeter, a boxcar power response curve is obtained with edges corresponding to the start and finish of the titration. Thus, kinetic analysis is not pertinent for this reaction. Verification of the performance of the calorimeter has been obtained for an organic chemical reaction in a non aqueous system. The heat of reaction for the ethanolysis of acetic anhydride using An experimentally determined heat of reaction has not been reported in the literature. However, the heat of reaction has been estimated as 14.26 kcal mole using the computation method of Handrick based on averaged functional group contributions to the heat of combustion of organic compounds 2 . The time vs heat flow curve is given in FIGURE 6. As in the previous example, electrical calibration pulses are applied before and after the reaction, which occurs during region d e. The onset of the power excursion is rapid and a plateau is reached determined by the rate of addition. However, as reagents are consumed, the reaction slows down and the power response decreases. After the reagent addition is complete, the reaction continues for some time with second order kinetics and the power response decays in concert with this rate law. Analysis of the power curve yields the second order rate constant for the reaction.