# Stabilized and doubly promoted platinum group metal catalysts for emission control.

## Abstract
Alumina supported platinum group metal catalysts ex hibit exceptionally good performance and durability when the support is sequentially modified to include support sta bilization by lanthana or lanthana rich rare earth oxides, double promotion by ceria and alkali metal oxides, especial ly ceria along with lithia, and optionally nickel oxide as a base metal catalytic ingredient. For a pelleted Rh containing catalyst to exhibit such an outstanding performance at least part of the Rh component is added separately from any other Pt group metals.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A catalyst suitable for use as a catalyst for auto emission control comprising an alumina support having impregnated thereon about 1 to 10 by weight expressed as La203 of lanthana as a stabilizer which is either in the form of lanthana only or in the form of lanthana rich rare earth oxides where the Lea203 is at least 50 by weight of the total rare earth oxides, 1 20 by weight of ceria as a promoter, at least 0.5 to about 5 by weight of an alkali metal oxide as a promoter, and a catalytically effective amount of one or more platinum group metals. 2. A catalyst according to Claim 1, wherein the alumina support is pelleted and said platinum group metals penetrate the alumina support to an average distance less than approximately 300 microns as measured by the SnCl2 solution staining method. 3. A catalyst according to Claim 1, wherein the alkali metal oxide is Li2 0 and wherein the lanthana expressed as La203 is about 2 6 by weight. 4. A catalyst according to Claim 2, wherein the platinum group metals comprise at least platinum and rhodium. 5. A catalyst according to Claim 1, wherein the alumina support is a washcoat powder. 6. A catalyst according to Claim 4, wherein a maximum of the platinum is within about 50 microns of the exterior surface of the support and no more than about 70 of the total platinum loaded is located within about 100 microns depth and a maximum rhodium concentration is within about 50 microns of the exterior surface of the support and no more than about 95 of the total rhodium loaded is located without about 100 microns depth. 7. A catalyst according to Claim 1, wherein nickel is further added in an amount of 0.5 to 20 wt. NiO. 8. A catalyst suitable for use as a three way catalyst for auto emission control comprising an alumina pelleted support having impregnated thereon 1 20 by weight of ceria as a promoter, at least 0.5 to about 5 by weight of an alkali metal oxide as a promoter, and a catalytically effective amount of one or more platinum group metals comprising at least platinum and rhodium, said platinum group metals penetrating the alumina support to an average distance less than approximately 300 microns as measured by the SnCl2 solution staining method, said platinum having a maximum concentration within about 50 microns of the exterior surface of the support but no more than about 70 of the total platinum loaded being located within about 100 microns depth and said rhodium having a maximum rhodium concentration within about 50 microns of the exterior surface of the support but no more than about 80 of the total rhodium loaded being located within about 100 microns depth. 9. A catalyst according to Claim 8, wherein nickel is further added in an amount of 0.5 to 20 wt. NiO. 10. A method of making a catalyst which is suitable for use as a three way catalyst for auto emission comprising the steps of a impregnating an alumina support which has been heated to at least 3000C with a solution containing a lanthanum salt which is either in the form of lanthanum salt only or in the form of lanthanum rich rare earth salts, which upon calcination gives rare earth oxides where La203 is at least 50 by weight of the total rare earth oxides b heating the impregnated support to at least decompose the lanthanum salt to obtain a lanthana impregnated support c applying promoters and one or more platinum group metals by either A 1 impregnating the lanthana impregnated alumina support from step b with a soluble cerium salt solution 2 heating the impregnated support to at least decompose the cerium salt to obtain a lanthana ceria impregnated support and 3 impregnating the lanthana ceria impregnated support with solutions bearing one or more platinum group metals and at least one alkali metal or B 1 impregnating the lanthana impregnated support from step b with a solution containing a soluble cerium salt and a lithium salt 2 heating the impregnated support to at least decompose the cerium and lithium salts to obtain a lanthana ceria lithia impregnated support and 3 impregnating the lanthana ceria lithia impregnated support with solutions bearing one or more platinum group metals to form a catalyst d air drying the catalyst at ambient temperature for 0 4 hours, and at about i00 i500C to dry the catalyst after each impregnation with solutions bearing catalytic metals and e activating the catalyst, which has previously been heated to a temperature of at least 800 11000C in one of the prior steps b or c , at a temperature of about 250 5500C and preferably in the presence of hydrogen. 11. A method according to Claim 10, wherein the platinum group metals in step cA3 or cB3 are provided in the form of water soluble platinum group metal compounds which are selected from the group consisting of sulfito complexes of platinum group metals, chloroplatinic acid, potassium platinum chloride, ammonium platinum thiocyanate, platinum tetrammine hydroxide, platinum group metal chlorides, oxides, sulfides, nitrites and nitrates, platinum tetrammine chloride, palladium tetrammine chloride, sodium palladium chloride, hexammine rhodium chloride, and hexammine iridium chloride. 12. A method according to Claim 10, wherein the platinum group metals in step cA3 or cB3 include Rh and wherein at least a part of the Rh containing solution is impregnated separately from the other platinum group metal solutions. 13. A method according to Claim 12, wherein the Rh containing solution further contains a penetration aid. 14. A method according to Claim 10, wherein nickel is further added in an amount of 0.5 to 20 wt. NiO. 15. A method according to Claim 10, wherein the solutions of cerium salt and lithium salt are applied in step cB1 either a by first a cerium salt followed by a lithium salt, b by first a lithium salt followed by cerium salt or c by a simultaneous application of a mixture of the cerium salt and the lithium salt. 16. A catalyst made by the process of Claim 10. 17. A method of making a catalyst which is suitable for use as a three way catalyst for auto emission comprising the steps of a applying promoters and at least two platinum group metals by either A 1 impregnating an alumina support which has been heated to at least 300 C with a soluble cerium salt solution 2 heating the impregnated support to at least decompose the cerium salt to obtain a ceria impregnated support and 3 impregnating the ceria impregnated support with solutions bearing one or more platinum group metals and at least one alkali metal, and further including a Rh containing solution which has at least part of the Rh solution impregnated separately from the other platinum group metal solutions and alkali metal bearing solutions or B 1 impregnating an alumina support which has been heated to at least 300 C with a solution containing a cerium salt and a lithium salt 2 heating the impregnated support to at least decompose the cerium and lithium salts to obtain a ceria lithia impregnated support and 3 impregnating the ceria lithia impregnated support with solutions bearing one or more platinum group metals including Rh and where the Rh containing solution has at least part of the Rh solution im pregnated separately from the other platinum group metal solutions to form a catalyst b air drying the catalyst at ambient temperature for 0 4 hours, and at about l00 l500C to dry the catalyst after each impregnation with solutions bearing catalytic metals and c activating the catalyst, which has previously been heated to a temperature of at least 800 11000C in step a at a temperature of about 250 5500C and preferably in the presence of hydrogen. 18. A method according to Claim 17, wherein the platinum group metals in step aA3 or aB3 are provided in the form of water soluble platinum group metal compounds which are selected from the group consisting of sulfito complexes of platinum group metals, chloroplatinic acid, potassium platinum chloride, ammonium platinum thiocyanate, platinum tetrammine hydroxide, platinum group metal chlorides, oxides, sulfides, nitrites and nitrates, platinum tetrammine chloride, palladium tetrammine chloride, sodium palladium chloride, hexammine rhodium chloride, and hexammine iridium chloride. 19. A method according to Claim 17, wherein the Rh containing solution further contains a penetration aid. 20. A method according to Claim 17, wherein nickel is further added in an amount of 0.5 to 20 wt. NiO. 21. A method according to Claim 17, wherein the solutions of cerium salt and lithium salt are applied in step aB1 either a by first a cerium salt followed by a lithium salt, b by first a lithium salt followed by cerium salt or c by a simultaneous application of a mixture of the cerium salt and the lithium salt. 22. A catalyst made by the process of Claim 17.

## Description
Background of the Invention This invention relates to a catalyst for use in auto emission control which has improved hydrothermal stability as well as improved poison resistance and especially for an improved three way catalyst TWC . As we described in our copending application U.S.Serial No. 461,119, filed January 26, 1983, performance of alumina supported Pt Rh or Pt Pd Rh TWC could be substantially improved by doubly promoting the catalyst with ceria and the oxides of alkali metals, especially of Li. The improvement in TWC performance is manifested in both high conversion efficiency as well as in good durabilitv which is far superior to the singly promotedTWCs with ceria. rayon repeated exposures to severely hydrothermal conditions, however, sintering takes place along with interaction of the catalytic materials either amonq themselves or with exhaust contaminants. In addition, the support undergoes a phase transition to the undesired alpha alumina form and as a cumulative result there is a decrease in TWC performance.Objects of the Invention It is an object of this invention to obtain a hydrothermally stable doubly promoted catalyst and especially a TWC. It is a further object of this invention to obtain a catalyst utilizinq a transitional alumina support which forms a minimum amount of alpha alumina upon hydrothermal treatment and especially a TWC. It is a further object of this invention to provide an improved method for incorporatinq catalytic ingredients especially noble metals so as to resist deactivation due to poisoning. It is a further object to improve the hydrothermal stability of a catalyst and especially a TWC without sacrificinq catalytic performance as reflected in conversion efficiencies after aging by utilizing metal impregnation procedures which will ensure high catalytic performance. It is a further object to obtain a long durability pelleted catalyst and especially a TWC by optimizing the metals concentrations to a lower level at or near the exterior surface of the pellet while limiting the overall metals penetration to a desired depth. It is a further object to improve the hydrocarbon efficiency of the catalyst by adding nickel to the catalvst. These and further objects will become apparent as the description of the invention proceeds. Summarv of Invention The extent of alpha alumina formation can be greatly reduced by stabilizing a transitional alumina support with lanthana or La rich rare earth oxides while still maintaining high catalytic performance. The stabilized and doubly promoted Pt group metal catalysts comprises four material components which are 1 support or carrier, 2 stabilizer, 3 promoters, and 4 catalytic metals. The preferred support or carrier is a transitional alumina particle having a BET N2 surface area in the range from at least 20 to 200 m2 g, preferably from 70 to 150 m q. Lanthana or La rich rare earth oxides comprise the stabilizer. When lanthana alone, without accompanying rare earth oxides, is employed as a stabilizer the desired level is from at least 0.5 to 10 wt. La203. When La rich rare earth i.e.,Ce depleted rare earth mixture oxide is used as a stabilizer, the Lea 203 is at least 50 by weight of the total rare earth oxides and the desired level is from at least 1 to 10 wt. Lea203. By Ce depleted, we mean that the CeO2 content when calcined will be no more than 152 and more preferably no more than 10 by weight.The preferred level of stabilizer, reqardless of the source, is from 2 to 6 wt. La 203 This additive essentially stabilizes the transitional alumina support against hydrothermal severities, and hence it will stabilize the promoters as well as the catalytic metals which are subsequently dispersed on the lanthana stabilized support. It is not the intention of this invention to use lanthana in the form of mixed, unseparated rare earth oxides in naturally occurring ratios. In monazite, for example, Lea 203 is only 19.5 wt. of the rare earth oxides. This level of lanthana is too low. Although one might expect that larger amounts of the naturally occurring rare earth oxide could be used to obtain the desired level of lanthana, this higher mixed oxide loading would heqin to block the alumina pores and have other adverse catalytic effects lower pore volume and higher density. Thus a lanthana enriched form of mixed rare earth oxides is desired with the lanthana being at least 50 by weight.This stabilization is an important feature of the invention and is applicable to all types of alumina supported automotive emission control catalysts, oxidative, three way, monolithic or pelleted. Both ceria and alkali metal oxides are present as the promoter with from at least 1 to 20 wt. CeO2, preferably from 2 to 10 wt. CeO2, and from at least 0.5 to 5 wt. , preferably from 1 to 3 wt. alkali metal oxides, especially Li2O. It is a further feature of this invention to deposit the catalytic metals in the form of Pt Rh, Pt Pd Rh,Pd Rh, or Pt Pd with special metal concentration profiles which especially make the pelleted catalysts of this invention have unique and excellent performance and which exhibit much longer than the usual 50,000 mile durability. The catalytic metals with their unique metals concentration profile can be applied to any support whether or not it is lanthana stabilized as is the preferred embodiment of this invention. This unique metals concentration profiles has at least three distinguishing characteristics. First, unlike the layered catalyst described in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,128,506 Heqedus et al and 4,152,301 Summers et al , both the major e.g. Pt and minor e.g.Rh component metals exhibit higher concentrations at or near the exterior surface than in the interior. Second, the concentration of each of the major and minor component metals, especially of the major, at or near the exterior surface represents a substantially lower fraction of each metal loaded than those disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,405,506 Kim . Because the metals located at or near the exterior surface of the catalyst are bound to be poisoned, this reduces the amounts of both the major and minor component metals that will be wasted. Third, the overall penetration depth of each metal is controlled so as not to exceed approximately 300 microns based on the Sic12 staining method . Catalysts with such metals concentration profiles can be prepared by following the special impregnation and dryinq procedures described below as well as in Examples 5, 6, 8, 9 and 10. The metals concentration profile determined by the layer abrasion test described in U.S. Patent No. 4,152,301 has a maximum platinum concentration within about 50 microns of the exterior surface of the support and no more than about 70 of the total platinum loaded is located within about 100 microns depth. For rhodium, the maximum concentration is within about 50 microns of the exterior surface of the support and no more than about 95 of the total rhodium loaded is located within about 100 microns depth. In another embodiment, Ni may be added from 0.5 to 20 wt. NiO and preferably from 1 to 10 wt. NiO to improve the catalyst efficiency for hydrocarbon conversion and especially as a TWC.Detailed Description of the Invention The catalysts and especially the TWC compositions according to the present invention can be prepared in the following manner. Alumina pellets or particles are precalcined at 300 10000C, prefereably at 400 6000C to a total volatiles content of from 2 to 8 wt. , preferably from 4 to 6 wt. . Alumina pellets are then impregnated with an aqueous solution bearing La ions, preferably in the form of La nitrate or hydrous La oxide, dried at 100 1500C, and air calcined at temperatures of about at least 8000C and more preferably at about 1000 11000C. The resulting lanthana stabilized alumina pellets are impreqnated with an aqueous solution containing both 3 Ce and M ions where M is an alkali metal, especially Li , preferably in the form of nitrates, dried at 100 1500C, and air calcined at 500 11000C, preferably at 700 10100C. Optionally, Ni from Ni nitrate can be added along with these promoters, with some moderation in calcination temperature so that it does not exceed 900 C. The stabilized and doubly promoted support thus obtained are impregnated in a single or multiple steps with solutions bearinq sulfito complexes of noble metals.In the preferred embodiment the solutions are multiply impreqnated. An especially preferred procedure is one in which the Rh containing solution, preferably an acid sulfito complex solution of Rh, has at least some portion separately impregnated along with a penetration aid such as dibasic ammonium citrate either in the first or in the last impregnation step. After each impregnation the pellets are allowed to stand at room temperature for up to six hours, more preferably from 1 2 to 4 hours before drying at 100 1500C. Finally, the catalyst is activated at 250 5500C and preferably in flowing N2 containing 3 5 vol. H2. It is also possible that the alkali metal ingredient can be incorporated along with noble metals other than Rh. Furthermore, optionally, Ni can also be incorporated along with noble metals other than Rh. When making alumina particle catalysts the amount ofCeO2 promoter applied is preferably between 1 and 20 wt. and more preferably between 2 10 wt. . This CeO2 promoter is to be preferably added in a separate impregnation step from the lanthana stabilization step.In other words, when doinq the initial lanthana stabilization step one can not use a naturally occurring mixed rare earth oxide and expect that the CeO2 contained in the mixed rare earth oxide will provide the desired level of CeO2 promotion. Instead, it is preferred to add the CeO2 in a later impregnation step.The amount of alkali metal promoter applied expressed as the weight percent of the oxide MO, may be any effective amount up to about 5 wt. and more preferably from about 0.5 to 3 wt. . The platinum group metal component may be platinum, palladium, rhodium, ruthenium, iridium, osmium, and mixtures thereof, with the preferred metals being Pt, Pd,Rh either alone or in any combination. When the platinum group metal contains more than one of such components, the component may be composed of a major amount of platinum or palladium and a minor amount of one or more of the other platinum group metals such as rhodium. When platinum and palladium are used alone, they can be in any ratio. The catalytic metals mixture may comprise from 0 to about 20 wt. rhodium, or mixtures thereof and preferably about 10 wt. rhodium and about 90 wt. platinum, palladium, or mixtures thereof. Various compounds, complexes, or fine metal dispersions of any of the platinum group metals in an aqueous or an organic medium may be used to achieve deposition of the platinum group metal component on the composite. A suitable liquid medium will not react with the platinum qroup metal component and is removable on drying which can be accomplished as part of the preparation or in use of the catalyst. Water soluble platinum group metal compounds or complexes may conveniently be used. Suitable platinum group metal compounds include chloroplatinic acid, potassium platinum chloride, ammonium platinum thiocyanate, platinum tetrammine hydroxide, platinum group metal chlorides, oxides, sulfides, nitrites and nitrates, platinum tetrammine chloride, palladium tetrammine chloride, sodium palladium chloride, hexammine rhodium chloride, and hexammine iridium chloride. In a preferred embodiment of this invention, the impregnation solution contains sulfito complexes of platinum qroup metals. For platinum and palladium, either an acid or an ammonium sulfito complex can be used. The most preferred platinum source is the ammonium sulfito complex prepared according to the methods described inU.S. Patent No. 3,932,309 Graham et al . The use of these complexes provides excellent dispersion and control of penetration depth of the platinum group metal.Preferably, rhodium is incorporated in the catalyst by impregnation with an acid rhodium sulfito complex prepared by reacting rhodium trichloride or rhodium hydrous oxide with sulfurous acid. In a preferred embodiment of this invention the pellets are held preferably for about two hours at room temperature after each impregnation is completed with the metal or metals. The composition may then be dried, for example, at a temperature of from about 1000C to about 1500 for about 2 to about 20 hours. The salt composition may be decomposed and the catalyst activated under conditions which provide a composition having characteristics that promote the desired reaction. The temperature of this activation is low enough to permit neither noble metal sintering nor sintering of the support. It is preferably done in a reducing atmosphere, e.g., by about a 1 hour reduction in flowing nitrogen containing 5 volume percent hydrogen at about 250 5500C and more preferably at about 4000C. In the catalyst of this invention, the platinum group metals provide the catalytically active surfaces for oxidation, reduction and decomposition reactions and are present in amounts sufficient to provide catalytic compositions having significant activity for catalyzing these reactions. Generally, the amount of platinum group metal used is a minor portion of the catalyst composite and typically does not exceed about 10 weight percent of the calcined composite. The amount may be about 0.05 to 10 percent and is preferably about 0.1 to 6 percent based on the weight of the calcined composite to maintain good activity with prolonged use. The La stabilized catalyst, which is especially suitable for use as a three way catalyst for auto emission, is preferably made by impregnating an alumina support which has been heated to at least 3000C with a solution containing a lanthanum salt. This salt is either in the form of just a lanthanum salt only or in the form of lanthanum rich rare earth salts which upon calcination give rare earth oxides where La203 is at least 50 by weiqht of the total rare earth oxides. The impregnated support is heated to at least decompose the lanthanum salt so as to obtain a lanthana impregnated support. In a preferred embodiment the heatinq is done at a temperature of from about 800 to 11000C to thermally stabilize the support. Next, promoters and one or more platinum group metals are applied by either one of two procedures. In the first procedure the lanthana impregnated alumina support is impregnated with a soluble cerium salt solution. The impregnated support is heated to at least decompose the cerium salt so as to obtain a lanthana ceria impregnated support. Then the lanthana ceria impregnated support is impregnated with solutions bearing one or more platinum group metals and at least one alkali metal. In the second procedure the lanthana impregnated support is impreqnated with a solution containing a soluble cerium salt and a lithium salt. The impregnated support is heated to at least decompose the cerium and lithium salts to obtain a lanthana ceria lithia impregnated support. Then the lanthana ceria lithia impregnated support is impregnated with solutions bearing one or more platinum group metals to form a catalyst. When the catalyst is being formed by either of these two methods, it is air dried at an ambient temperature for 0 4 hours and then at about 100 1500C so as to dry the catalyst after each impregnation with the solutions bearing the catalytic metals. During one of the earlier heating steps the catalyst is heated to a temperature of at least 800 11000C and finally it is activated at a temperature of about 250 5500C with the preferred activation being done in the presence of hydrogen. The preferred methods for providing platinum group metals have been discussed above. When making a catalyst which contains Rh, it is especially preferred to impregnate at least part of the Rh containing solution separately from the other platinum group metal solutions and to add a penetration aid to the Rh containing solution. Nickel can be further added in an amount of 0.5 to 2n wt. NiO and especially in an amount of 1 10 NiO. When the solutions of cerium salt and lithium salt are applied in the second procedure they can be added either a by first a cerium salt followed by a lithium salt, b by first a lithium salt followed by cerium salt or c by a simultaneous application of a mixture of the cerium salt and the lithium salt. In the other embodiment according to the present invention, catalysts with long term durability can be made which do not require the same degree of hydrothermal stability provided by the lanthana stabilization. In this method the catalyst, which is suitable for use as a three way catalyst for auto emission, is preferably made by applying promoters and at least two platinum group metals bv one of two procedures. In the first procedure an alumina support which has been heated to at least 3000C is impregnated with a soluble cerium salt solution. The impregnated support is heated to at least decompose the cerium salt to obtain a ceria impregnated support.Then the ceria impregnated support is impreganted with solutions bearing one or more platinum group metals and at least one alkali metal, and further including a Rh containing solution which has at least part of the Rh solution impregnated separately from the other platinum group metal solutions and alkali metal bearing solutions. In the second procedure the alumina support which has been heated to at least 3000C is impregnated with a solution containing a cerium salt and a lithium salt. The impregnated support is heated to at least decompose the cerium and lithium salts to obtain a ceria lithia impregnated support. Then the ceria lithia impregnated support is impregnated with solutions bearing one or more platinum group metals including Rh and where at least part of the Rh containing solution is impregnated separately from the other platinum group metal solutions to form a catalyst. When the catalyst is being formed by either of these two methods, it is air dried at an ambient temperature for 0 4 hours and then at about 100 1500C so as to dry the catalyst after each impregnation with the solutions bearing catalytic metals. During one of the heating steps the catalyst is heated to a temperature of at least 800 11000C and finally it is activated at a temperature of about 250 5500C with the preferred acitvation being done in the presence of hydrogen. The preferred methods for providing platinum group metals have been discussed above. It is especially preferred to have the Rh containing solution further contain a penetration aid.Nickel can be further added in an amount of 0.5 to 20 wt. NiO and especially in an amount of 1 10 NiO. When the solutions of cerium salt and lithium salt are applied in the second procedure they can be added either a by first a cerium salt followed by a lithium salt, b by first a lithium salt followed by cerium salt or c by a simultaneous application of a mixture of the cerium salt and the lithium salt. Having described the basic aspects of the invention, the following examples are given to illustrate specific embodiments thereof. Example 1 Alumina beads produced according to the procedure inU.S. Patent 4,179,408 by M. G. Sanchez and N. R. Laine, hereafter referred to as simply alumina beads, were precalcined for 16 hours in approximately 4000C air. A 25 kg batch of this alumina bead having 3 wt. total volatiles were impregnated by spraying with approximately 24.5 liters of mixed nitrate solution containing 766 g ofCeO2 in the form of cerous nitrate and 511 g of Li2 0 as lithium nitrate. After oven drying the beads at 1350C for 16 hours, a portion of the beads were air calcined at 10380C for one hour. The resulting beads were sifted through 5 and 10 mesh sieves. The beads in the 5 10 mesh range had an average diameter of 2.8 mm, 0.477 g cc bulk density, and 0.900 cc g water pore volume. This doubly promoted support was formulated to contain 3 wt. CeO2, 2 wt. Li2O, and balance Awl 203. In order to convert a portion of this support to a Pt Rh catalyst, sulfito complex solutions of noble metals were prepared according to the procedure described below. Approximately 150 g of a dilute solution containing 4.40 q of 41.62 ammonium bisulfite was adjusted to a pH of 8.33 using a dilute NH40H solution. To this was slowly added 4.9324 q of a chloroplatinic acid solution containing a total of 0.750 g Pt. The solution was then diluted with deionized water to exactly 250 g. The solution turned colorless within one hour upon standing at ambient temperature. This solution bearing 3 g of Pt per kg of solution is hereafter referred to as Solution A. Approximately 60 g of a dilute sulfurous acid solution in a bottle containing 0.374 g of pure SO2 was contacted with 2.364 g of RhC13 solution containing 200 mg of Rh.After gentle mixing and dilution with deionized water to a 100 g solution, the bottle was sealed, and then soaked in a 600C water bath for 2 hours. The solution was cooled to room temperature before use. This solution containing 2 ma of Rh per g of solution is hereafter referred to asSolution B. A 300 ml batch of the doubly promoted support prepared above was sprayed with 116 ml of a first impregnating solution in the form of a fine mist. This first impreqnatinq solution was prepared by diluting 57.58 g of a freshly prepared Solution A with water to approximately 100 ml. The resulting solution had a pH of 2.24. It was then further diluted to 116 ml before impregnation. After drying the beads on a screen for 16 hours, the beads were resprayed with 110 ml of a second impregnating solution.This second solution was prepared by mixing 24.67 g ofSolution A with 7.40 g of Solution B, followed by dilution to approximately 95 ml. The resulting solution had a pH of 1.85. After raising the pH to 2.08 using a diluteNH40H solution, the solution was further diluted to 110 ml. After impregnating the beads with the second solution they were dried on a screen for 16 hours in a 1350C oven and then activated for a one hour reduction period in flowing N2 containing 5 H2 at 4000C. The resulting catalyst was formulated to have a metals loading g metals liter catalyst of 0.791 g Pt and 0.0475 g Rh. Example 2 The alumina beads described in Example 1 were precalcined at approximately 4000C for 16 hours. A 50 kg batch of this alumina beads having 3 wt. total volatiles were impregnated with approximately 49 liters of lanthanum nitrate solution containing 2.021 kg of Lea 203 After drying the beads for 16 hours at 1350C, the beads were air calcined at 10380C. A 25 kg portion of the resulting beads were reimpregnated with approximately 23.8 liters of a mixed nitrate solution containing 774 g CeO2 and 516 g of Li2O. After 1350C drying for 16 hours the beads were air calcined at 10100C for one hour. The resulting beads were sifted through 5 and 10 mesh sieves. The beads in the 5 10 mesh range had an average diameter of 2.8 mm, 0.499 g cc bulk density, and 0.90 cc g water volume.This doubly promoted support with lanthana stabilization was formulated to have the following composition wt. 3.8 La203, 3 CeO2, 2 Li2O, and balance A1203. A 300 ml batch of Pt Rh catalyst was prepared on the above prepared support in exactly the same manner as inExample 1, applying the same metals loading of 0.791 g Pt and 0.0475 g Rh using Solutions A and B described inExample 1. Example 3 An 8.5 cc sample each of the two Pt Rh catalysts prepared in Examples 1 and 2 was pulsator aged for a period of 202.5 hours, using n hexane as the fuel. The fuel contained 0.033 g liter Pb, 0.033 g liter Zn, 0.0528 g liter P, and 0.08 wt. S. During the period of aging the catalyst samples were allowed to experience cycling temperatures. The cycle consisted of a low temperature of 5660C at wall which was maintained for 75 minutes and then a higher temperature of 7320C at wall which was maintained for 15 minutes. Each sample after 67.5 hour aging was then evaluated by the cycled TWC test as described by M. V. Ernest and G. Kim in Soc. of Automot.Eng. Paper No. 800083 at approximately 92,000 GHSV, using the test feed shown in Table 1 and 4820C inlet gas temperature. Table 1 Composition vol. of Test Feed Gas in Cycled TWC Test Gaseous Rich Lean CycledaComponent Stream Stream StreamC3H6 0.027 0.027 0.027C3H8 0.009 0.009 0.009CO 0.72 0.29 0.376 0.694H2 0.24 0.10 0.128 0.232NO 0.162 0.162 0.162 O2 0.20 0.70 0.230 0.60 C 14.5 14.5 14.5 H20 10 10 10N2 Balance Balance Balance a. Cycled between the rich and lean streams at 1 Hertz varying the proportions. The results of the cycled TWC Test are presented inTable 2 and represent TWC performance under a rich R 0.7 , stoichiometric R 1.0 , and a lean R 1.5 conditions, where R is a measure of air fuel ratio defined as the ratio of total oxidant 02 NO to total reducing agent HC, CO, and H2 in the test feed, each entity being expressed in terms of 02 equivalent. The performances of pulsator aged samples in oxidizing warm up test are presented in Table 3. This test is also described in the above cited Soc. of Automot. Eng. paperNo. 800083.Also presented in Table 3 are the results obtained when 8.5 cc samples of the two catalysts inExamples 1 and 2 were subjected to 18 hour hydrothermal aging HTA at approximately 18,000 GHSV and 9820C in flowing N2 containing 10 steam, 20 ppm SO2, 400 ppmC3H6, 0.75 02, 1.8 CO 1 2 sec. on, 1 2 sec. off , oscillating between net reducing R 0.7 and net oxidizing R 4.0 conditions at 1 Hertz. The performances in oxidizinq warm up test of the two catalysts in Examples 1 and 2 after pulsator aging and HTA treatment are included in Table 3. Table 2 Performancesa of Ceria Lithia Promoted Pt Rh Catalysts After Pulsator Aging or Hydrothermal AgingCatalyst in Agedb Lean R 1.5 Example Stabilized hrs. HC CO NO 0 95 97 78 P 67.5 83 93 64 1 No P 135 76 90 59 P 202.5 65 89 49 HT 18 92 97 75 0 95 97 80 P 67.5 86 96 70 2 Yes P 135 78 93 64 P 202.5 65 89 50 HT 18 95 99 78 a. At approximately 92,000 GHSV by the cycled TWC test.b. P Pulsator aged at 566 7320C. HT Hydrothermally aged at 9820C. Table 3 Oxidizing Warmup Activities of Stabilized Ce Li TWCsCatalyst in 1 2 ExampleStabilizer None 4 La203ACTIVITY PARAMETER FRESH Delta t, sec. 19 20 time 50 CO Conv., sec. 63 60 time 50 HC Conv., sec. 107 137 Propane Conv., 76 70 CO Conv., 99 99 After 24 Hours at 9820C in Air Delta t, sec. 67 50 time 50 CO Conv., sec. 270 213 time 50 HC Conv., sec. Propane Conv., 46 50 CO Conv., 99 99 After 18 Hours HTA at 9820C Delta t, sec. 20 19 time 50 CO Conv., sec. 53 48 time 50 HC Conv., sec. 103 96 Propane Conv., 72 76 CO Conv., 99 99 After Pulsator Aging for 202.5 Hours Delta t, sec. 35 38 time 50 CO Conv., sec. 82 78 Propane Conv., 39 40 CO Conv., 94 94Delta t time required to attain 90 conversion from 10 conversion of CO time 50 time required to attain 50 conversion conv. conversion attained under a steady state condition These data clearly show high performance of lanthana stabilized TWC when doubly promoted with ceria and alkali metal oxides, especially lithia. The data show that the catalytic activity has not been harmed by the addition of La which has provided a gain in hydrothermal stability. The data in Table 3 indicates La stabilized sample is consistently equivalent or better than the catalyst with no La present. The two catalysts of Examples 1 and 2 were also tested for the extent of alpha alumina formed, the volume shrinkage, and the change in surface area upon exposure to severely high temperatures or hydrothermal condition. The results are set forth in Table 4. Table 4 Effect of Lanthana Stabilization on the Properties of Doubly Promoted TWCsCatalyst in Example 1 2La Stabilized No YesAlpha Alumina, a After 18 hours HTA commat 9820C b 9 trace After 24 hours in 10660C air 35 none After 24 hours in 11490C air 47 traceVolumetric Shrinkage, After 24 hours in 10660C air 25.6 10.8 After 24 hours in 11490C air 33.3 23.2Surface Area, m2 g c After 24 hours in 10660C air 53 75 After 24 hours in l1490C air 21 29 a. Determined on samples after shrink determination.b. Hydrothermally aged cf. Text of Example 3 .c. Single point BET N27 surface area. It should be noted that, without stabilization with lanthana, there is a strong tendency to form alpha alumina, causing a substantial volume shrinkage.The data also show that the alpha alumina formation is accelerated in the hydrothermal environment. Thus the stabilization of alumina pellets or particles with lanthana or La rich rare earth oxides is a significant improvement in the production of Pt group metal emission control catalysts, including the doubly promoted TWCs. By using the La stabilization there will be a lower volume shrinkaqe upon use. This means that in the case of beads in a converter, there will be less of a chance of the beads movinq around in the converter and thus less chance of attrition. Example 4 This example serves as a control to show depositing rhodium and platinum together. Alumina beads were air calcined for one hour at 10380C. A portion of beads in the 5 10 mesh range were impregnated to incipient wetness with a cerous nitrate solution. After drying overnight at 1350C, the beads were calcined for one hour in 7320C air. The resulting beads containing 3 wt. CeO2 were sifted through 5 and 10 mesh sieves. Beads in the 5 10 mesh range had a bulk density of 0.453 g ml and a water pore volume of 0.973 cc g. This support is hereafter referred to as Support A. A 300 ml portion of Support A was impregnated by spraying with 120 ml of solution containing 173 mg of Pt in the form of NH4 6Pt SO3 4 salt solution.After dryinq overniqht at 1350C, the beads were resprayed with 112 ml of solution containing 48.9 mg of Pt in the form of NH4 6Pt S03 4 salt solution, 18.5 mg ofRh in the form of Solution B, and 0.3 millimole of dibasic ammonium citrate. The impregnating solution had a pH of 2.30. After drying again overnight at 1350C, the catalyst was activated for a one hour reduction period in the same manner as in Example 1. The resulting catalyst was formulated to have the following metals loading g metals liter catalyst 0.740 g Pt and 0.0617 g Rh. Example 5 A 300 ml batch of Support A from Example 4 was impregnated by spraying with 120 ml of solution containing 18.5 mq of Rh in the form of Solution B and 0.75 millimole of dibasic ammonium citrate. After drying overnight at 1350C, the beads were resprayed with 112 ml of solution containing 221.9 mg of Pt in the form of NH4 6Pt SO3 4 salt solution. The impregnating solution had a pH of 4.44. The beads were dried again at 1350C overnight. Finally, the catalyst was activated by a one hour reduction in the same manner as in Example 1.The resulting catalyst was formulated to have a metals loading identical to that of the catalyst in Example 4. Example 6 A 300 ml batch of Support A from Example 4 was impregnated by spraying with 120 ml of solution containing 221.9 mg of Pt in the form of NH4 6Pt SO3 4 salt solution. After dyring overnight at 1350C, the beads were resprayed with 112 ml of solution containing 18.5 mg of Rh in the form of Solution B in Example 1 and 0.75 millimole of dibasic ammonium citrate. The impregnating solution had a pH of 2.50. After drying again overnight at 1350C, the catalyst was activated by one hour reduction in the same manner as in Example 1. The metals loading for this catalyst is identical to that of the catalyst in Example 4. Example 7 An 8.5 ml each of the three catalysts prepared inExamples 4, 5, and 6 was subjected to accelerated pulsator aging for a period of 90 hours at approximately 60 pulses minute, using n hexane containing 0.132 g liter Pb, 0.040 g liter P, and 0.08 wt. S. During the period of aging the catalyst samples were allowed to experience cycling temperatures. The cycle consisted of 75 minutes at 5660C at wall and 15 minutes at 7320C at wall .Each catalyst sample was then evaluated by the PerturbedSweep Test procedure described in Ind. Eng. Chem. Prod.Res. Dev., 21, 267 1982 , using the simulated exhaust gas feed shown in Table 5. Table 5 Simulated Auto Exhaust Gas Mixture for the Perturbed Sweep Test Gas Vol. Hca 0.0400 CO 0.30 0.78 H2 0.10 0.26 NO 0.185 S03 0.0020 02 0.245 0.725 C 2 14.5 H20 10.0 N2 Balance a. A mixture of C3H6 and C3H8 at a molar ratio of C H C H 4 1. 36 38 The results are presented in Table 6. Table 6 Performance a of 90 hr. Pulsator Aged TWCsCatalyst Rhodium in Aplied Rich R 0.7 Stoi. R 1.0 Lean R 1.5 Example Alone HC CO NO HC CO NO HC CO NO 4 No 72 38 63 74 42 52 75 52 33 5 Yes 76 44 66 77 52 57 75 63 38 6 Yes 76 46 67 77 54 57 77 66 39 a. At approximately 60,000 GHSV by the perturbed sweep test . When following the preferred noble metal impregnation procedure in which Rh is impregnated in the form of an acid sulfito complex solution along with a penetration aid such as dibasic ammonium citrate, independent of other noble metals as illustrated in Examples 5 and 6, the resulting catalyst is shown to be clearly superior to the procedure often employed in catalyst preparation illustrated in Example 4 where the Rh is added along with another noble metal. Example 8 This example illustrates the production of a larger batch of the type shown in Example 5 which has been tested for dynamometer aging. A ceria lithia promoted support was prepared using the same procedure as described in Example 1. That resulting support had a total volatile content of 3.35 , a bulk density of 0.4777 g cc, and a water pore volume of 0.95 cc g. The CeO2 and Li2 0 contents were determined by chemical analysis to be 3.27 and 2.32 , respectively. A TWC was prepared by impregnating to a platinum loading of 0.712 g per liter of catalyst and a rhodium loading of 0.0712 g pe r liter of catalyst. This was accomplished by starting with 28162 grams of the above ceria lithia promoted support which was impregnated by spraying with a solution of rhodium sulfito complex through atomizing nozzles. The rhodium sulfito complex solution was prepared by reacting at 600C for 2 hours 89.775 grams of rhodium trichloride solution having a rhodium concentration of 4.8615 with 115.84 grams of sulfurous acid having a so2 content of 7.39 diluted with deionzed water to a total volume of 4364 milliliters. After the two hour reaction time, the reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and then diluted to 23.2 liters at which volume the pH was 2.0.Then 33.25 grams of dibasic ammonium citrate was added, followed by dilution to 24.08 liters at which volume the pH was 2.9. After the rhodium solution was applied the impregnated support was allowed to remain in the impregnation vessel for two hours at room temperature. It was then transferred to a forced draft oven for 16 hours at 1350C. The above material once removed from the oven and cooled to room temperature was reimpregnated with a platinum containing solution by spraying through atomizing nozzles. The platinum containing solution was prepared by diluting 474.17 grams of hexammonium platinum tetrasulfite solution having a platinum concentration of 9.2045 to a final volume of 22.74 litters at which volume the pH was 5.9. This was again allowed to remain in the impregnation vessel for two hours at room temperature once impregnation had been completed. After drying for 16 hours at 1350C, the catalyst was activated in a flow of 5 hydrogen 95 nitrogen for one hour at 385 3990C. The resulting catalyst had a bulk density of 0.4812 g cc, a BET surface area of 117 m2 g, and major minor axes dimensions of 3.07 2.57 millimeters, respectively. This catalyst has performed superbly after the dynamometer equivalent of 50,000 mile aging, setting the best performance record ever established for a 160 cubic inch single bed pelleted TWC converter, better than 90 for both HC and CO and better than 45 NO, conversion efficiencies. This performance represents a substantial improvement over those having similar compositions which were prepared in the same manner as in Example 4. The uniqueness of the catalyst of this example as well as those prepared by using this new metals impregnation and drying procedure is in the metals concentration profiles which can be characterized as follows. First, a maximum platinum concentration is found within about 50 microns of the exterior surface of the support and no more than about 70 of the total platinum loaded is located within about 100 microns depth. Second, a maximum rhodium concentration is also found within about 50 microns of the exterior surface of the support and no more than about 80 of the total rhodium loaded is located within about 100 microns depth. Finally the average metal penetration depth as determined by the SnCl2 staining method does not exceed approximately 300 microns. It should be noted that the distribution of catalytic metals in this new type of long durability pelleted TWCs has been optimized to lower the metals concentrations at or near the exterior surface of the pellet while limiting the metals penetration to a desired depth. Lower metals concentration at or near the exterior surface means lower waste due to poisoning than otherwise. Confining the metals distribution to within the outer shell of desired thickness also reduces waste of metals because the metals located too deep contribute little because of pore diffusion limitation. Example 9 This example illustrates the production of a relatively large size bead catalyst according to the invention. Alumina beads were precalcined in approximately 4500C air to 3 wt. total volatiles. A 53.07 kg batch of this precalcined alumina bead was impregnated with approximately 67.1 kg of solution which was prepared by diluting 9,239 g of a concentrated lanthanum nitrate solution 24 wt. La2O3 with water. After drying in 1350C air the beads were calcined in 10380C air for one hour. A 26.76 kg portion of the resulting beads thus stabilized with 4.13 wt. La203 was impregnated with a solution which was prepared by mixing 3,152 g of a cerous nitrate solution bearing 24 wt. CeO2 and 2,326 g of lithium nitrate crystals bearing 21.67 Li2O, and diluting to a total weight of 24.53 kg. After drying at approximately l350C the beads were air calcined at 10100C for one hour.A portion of this support, consisting of 3.92 wt. La203, 2.70 wt. CeO2, and 1.80 wt. Li2O, was sifted through 5 and 8 mesh sieves. The support in the 5 8 mesh range had an average diameter of 3.42 mm, a bulk density of 0.5176 g cc, a water pore volume of 0.85 cc q, and a total volatiles of 4.36 wt. . An 8,508 g portion of the above support in the 5 8 mesh range was doubly impregnated, first with aRh containing solution which was prepared by reacting for two hours at 600C a mixture of 31.64 g of H2SO3 solution having a SO2 concentration of 6.29 wt. with 20.8570 g of RhC13 solution having a concentration of 4.8615 wt. Rh in a total solution volume of 500 ml.After the reaction period the solution was cooled to ambient temperature and then was diluted with water to approximately 6,510 ml. At this point 3.72 g of dibasic ammonium citrate was added to the solution. The pH of this impregnating solution was 2.46. It was sprayed on the support using atomizing nozzles. The beads were allowed to stand at ambient temperature for two hours and then were dried at 1350C for 16 hours. The dried beads were reimpregnated with approximately 6,150 ml of solution containing 126.7719 g of NH4 6 Pt SO3 4 salt solution having a concentration of 9.598 wt. Pt. This impregnating solution had a pH of 6.44. Again the impregnated beads were allowed to stand at ambient temperature for two hours prior to oven drying at 1350C. The dried beads were activated for a one hour reduction period in a flowing stream of 5 vol. H2 and balance N2 at 385 4000C. The resulting catalyst has been formulated to a noble metals loading g metals liter catalyst of 0.740 g Pt and 0.617 g Rh. The metals distribution data show that less than 70 of the total Pt loaded is located within 100 microns and less than 94 of the total Rh loaded is located within 100 micron depth. This catalyst has performed very well after the dynamometer equivalent of 50,000 mile aging, despite its relatively low geometrical surface area per unit volume of the reactor or converter due to its relatively large bead size. The performance data in a TWC sweep test run on a full size converter after the dynamometer equivalent of 50,000 mile aging are better than 86 for both HC and CO conversions and better than 45 NOx conversion efficiency. These data substantially exceed the levels of conversion efficiencies usually expected for the catalysts of bead size employed in this example which are no more than 80 for both HC and CO, and no more than 40 forNOx after the dynamometer equivalent of 50,000 mile aging. Example 10 In this example a catalyst is stabilized with aLa rich rare earth oxide. Alumina beads were precalcined at 4000C for 16 hours.The resulting beads had a bulk density of 0.489 g cc, a water pore volume of 0.98 cc g, and a total volatiles of 3.70 wt. . Each of six 1,033 g batches of these beads was treated batchwise by soaking for one minute allowing all air displacement to cease in 1,395 ml of solution containing 335.89 g of lanthanum nitrate solution having a solids concentration of 25.52 wt. . The beads were then separated from the excess solution and allowed to air dry for one half hour at ambient temperature prior to drying at 1350C. Each batch was finally calcined at 10380C for one hour. The blend of all batches had a total rare earth oxide concentration of 5.70 wit. 60.5 of which was lanthana, i.e., 3.45 wt. La203. At this stage the support had a bulk density of 0.5403 g cc, a water pore volume of 0.88 cc g, and a total volatiles of 1.14 wt. .A 5,630 g portion of the above support was impregnated with approximately 4,940 ml of a mixed solution containing 714.53 g of cerous nitrate solution having a concentration of 24.5985 wt. CeO2 and 536.07 g of lithium nitrate crystals with an assay of 100.8 . After drying at 1350C for 16 hours the beads were calcined in 10100C air. The beads were then sifted through 10 mesh sieves. The support on 10 mesh sieve had a bulk density of 0.5769 g cc, a water pore volume of 0.72 cc g, and a total volatiles of 1.50 wt. . In the same manner as in Example 9, a Pt Rh catalyst was prepared on the above support as follows A 5,850 g portion of the above support was doubly impregnated, first with an acid sulfito complex solution of Rh prepared by reacting for two hours at 600C a mixture of 19.29 g ofH2SO3 solution having a SO2 concentration of 7.62 wt. with 15.4403 g of RhC13 solution having a Rh concentration of 4.8615 wt. in a total solution volume of 375 ml. After the reaction period the solution was cooled to ambient temperature, and then diluted with water to approximately 3,820 ml. To this was added 2.294 g of dibasic ammonium citrate. The pH of the impregnating solution was 2.45. The Rh containing solution was sprayed on the support using atomizing nozzles.The beads were allowed to stand at ambient temperature for two hours prior to drying at l350C for 16 hours. The beads were reimpregnated wih 3,605 ml of solution containing 7.5063 g of Pt in the form of NH4 6Pt SO3 4. This impregnating solution had a pH of 5.89. Again the impregnated beads were allowed to stand for two hours at ambient temperature prior to oven drying at 1350C. The dried beads were activated by one hour reduction in the same manner as in Example 1. The resulting catalyst has been formulated to a noble metals loading g metals liter catalyst of 0.740 g Pt and 0.074 g Rh. This catalyst performed satisfactorily in an auto exhaust test. Example 11 This example illustrates the successful use of smaller size beads having an average diameter of 2.8 mm and having a higher Rh content which is 5 1 on a Pt Rh weight basis.Because of higher Rh content, the Rh was incorporated in two steps with at least one step being a separate impregnation. Alumina beads were precalcined, stabilized with lanthana, and then doubly promoted with ceria and lithia in exactly the same manner as in Example 8. The resulting beads had a composition wt. of 3.69 La2O3, 3 CeO2, 2 Li2O, and balance A1203. This support in the 5 10 mesh range had a bulk density of 0.482 g cc, a water pore volume of 0.95 cc g, and a total volatiles of 3.49 wt. . A 7,923 g portion of the above support having an average diameter of 2.96 mm was doubly impregnated, first with a solution containing exactly half of the total Rh to be loaded. The impregnating solution was prepared by reacting for two hours at 600C a mixture of 43.78 g ofH2SO3 solution having a SO2 concentration of 7.57 wt. with 34.7624 g of RhC13 solution having a concentration of 4.8615 wt. Rh in a total solution volume of 600 ml. After the reaction period the solution was cooled to ambient temperature, and then was diluted with water to approximately 7,150 ml. To this was added 11.154 g of dibasic ammonium citrate. The pH of this impregnating solution was 2.79. This Rh containing solution was sprayed on the support using atomizing nozzles.After drying at l350C for 16 hours the beads were reimpregnated with approximately 6,775 ml of solution containing 16.900 g of Pt in the form of NH4 6Pt SO3 4 and 1.690 g of Rh in the form of solution which was prepared in exactly the same manner as in the first impregnation. Included also in this mixed solution bearing both Pt and Rh was 3.718 g of dibasic ammonium citrate. The impregnating solution had a pH of 3.35. After drying at 1350C the catalyst was activated by one hour reduction in the same manner as in Example 9.The resulting catalyst has been formulated to a noble metals loading g metals liter catalyst of 1.028 g Pt and 0.206 g Rh. This catalyst has performed very well in both 160 as well as 100 cubic inch single bed converters. The following Examples 12 and 13 are control catalysts for the nickel containing catalyst of Example 13. The comparison test results are given in Example 14. Example 12 This example will serve as a control to show the improvement in HC conversion when nickel is added. Alumina beads were air calcined at 10380C for one hour. Based on 3 wt. and 6 wt. CeO2 formulation, two separate batches of the above calcined alumina beads were impregnated to incipient wetness with cerous nitrate solutions, dried at 1350C overnight, and air calcined at 7600C for one hour. The resulting batches of beads, one with 3 wt. CeO2, the other with 6 wt. CeO2, were sifted through 5 and 10 mesh sieves. One with 3 wt. CeO2 had a bulk density of 0.447 g cc, and a water pore volume of 0.920 cc g. The other with 6 wt. CeO2 had a bulk density of 0.448 g cc and a water pore volume of 0.912. Solutions A and B of Example 1, 300 g and 100 g, respectively, were freshly prepared. A fresh Solution C was prepared by contacting approximately 70 g of dilute sulfurous acid containing 1.00 g of SO2 with 4.630 g ofPd nitrate solution bearing a total of 363 mg Pd. The solution was diluted to 121 g. The resulting acid sulfito complex solution contains 3g of Pd per kg of solution.This is hereafter referred to as Solution C. A 300 ml batch of alumina beads promoted with 6 wt. CeO2 prepared above was sprayed with 120 ml of solution containing 71.2 mg of Pd in the form of Solution C and 0.75 millimole of dibasic ammonium citrate. After drying at l350C overnight the beads were reimpregnated by spraying with 113 ml of solution containing 178 mg of Pt in the form of a freshly prepared Solution A and 10.9 mg of Rh in the form of a freshly prepared Solution B. The impregnating solution had a pH of 2.9. After drying again overnight at 1350C the beads were activated for a one hour reduction period in the same manner as in Example 1. Metals loading g metals liter catalyst of this catalyst was as follows 0.593 g Pt, 0.237 g Pd, and 0.0356 g Rh.This catalyst also contained 6 wt. Coo2. Example 13 This example will serve as a control to show the improvement in HC conversion when nickel is added. A 300 ml batch of alumina beads promoted with 6 wt. CeO2 prepared in Example 12 was sprayed with 120 ml of solution which was prepared as follows 6.72g of LiNO3 crystals 99.8 assay was dissolved in approximately 60 g of water. To this was added 0.75 millimole of dibasic ammonium citrate and dissolved. Then to this was added 71.2 mg of Pd in the form Solution C. The solution was finally diluted with water to 120 ml. After drying at l350C overnight the beads were resprayed with aPt Rh containing solution, dried at 1350C, and activated in exactly the same manner as in Example 12. The catalyst also contains 5.94 wt. CeO2 and 1 wt. Li2O. Example 14 This example has an additional nickel component added for increased HC conversion. A 300 ml batch of alumina beads promoted with 3 wt. CeO2 prepared in Example 12 was sprayed with 119 ml of solution which was prepared as follows 8.42 g of Ni NO3 2 6H2O crystals and 10.04 g of LiNO3 crystals were dissolved in a minimal amount of water, and then diluted to approximately 70 g. To this was added 0.75 millimole of dibasic ammonium citrate and 71.2 mg ofPd in the form of Solution C. The solution was finally diluted with water to 119 ml. After drying the beads overnight at 1350C, the second impregnation with a solution containing both Pt and Rh, drying at 1350C, and the final catalyst activation were carried out in exactly the same manner as in Example 12. The metals loading of this catalyst is identical to that of the catalyst inExample 12.This catalyst also contains 1.5 wt. Li2O, 1.5 wt. NiO, and 2.91 wt. Coo2. Example 15 An 8.5 cc sample each of the three Pt Pd Rh catalysts in Examples 12, 13 and 14 were pulsator aged for 90 hours in essentially the same manner as in Example 7. The poison levels in the fuel n hexane for this series of aging runs were 0.0528 g liter Pb, 0.100 g liter P, and 0.08 wt. S. The temperature during the aging run was allowed to cycle between 5660C for 70 minutes and 7600C for 20 minutes. The aged catalysts were evaluated in the same manner as in Example 7. The performance data are presented in Table 7. Table 7 Performance a of PT Pd RH TWCs After 90 hr. Pulsator AgingCatalyst in Promotors Rich R 0.7 Stoi. R 1.0 Lean R 1.5 Example WT. HC CO NO HC CO NO HC CO NO 12 6 CeO2 67 50 67 67 61 52 66 67 28 13 6 CeO2 70 48 67 71 63 59 69 73 31 1 Li2O 3 CeO2 14 1.5 Li2O 73 47 64 74 60 53 74 72 31 1.5 NiO a. At approximately 60,000 GHSV by the perturbed sweep test . The data in Table 7 illustrate the presence of a relatively low level of Ni is beneficial especially for HC performance since the values for the catalyst of Example 14 is superior to that of the catalyst in Example 12 having about the same 6 level of base metal additive.This Ni may exist on the catalyst in the form of Ni andNiO. Thus for a catalyst requiring improved HC performance, Example 14 illustrates an optional embodiment which achieves this result. It is understood that the foregoing detailed description is given merely by way of illustration and that many variations may be made therein without departing from the spirit of this invention.