# P Cyanobiphenylyl p omega alkoxyalkyl benzoate compound and liquid crystal material

## Abstract
A p cyanobiphenylyl p ω alkoxyalkyl benzoate com pound represented by a formula

## Claims
Claims 1. A p cyanobiphenylyl p U alkoxyalkyl benzoate compound represented by the general formula EMI11.1 wherein R is an alkyl group having 1 to 8 carbon atoms, and n is an integer of 1 to 3. 2. A compound according to claim 1, characterized in that R is an alkyl group having 1 to 6 carbon atoms. 3. a compound according to claim 2, characterized in that n is 2. 4. A compound according to claim 1, characterized in that R is an alkyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, and n is 2. 5. A compound according to claim 4, represented by the formula EMI11.2 6. A compound according to claim 4, represented by the formula EMI11.3 7. A compound according to claim 4, represented by the formula EMI11.4 8. A liquid crystal material comprising at least one p cyanobiphenylyl p X alkoxyalkyl 3 benzoate compound, represented by the general formula EMI11.5 wherein R is an alkyl group having 1 to 8 carbon atoms, and n is an integer of 1 to 3. 9. A liquid crystal material according to claim 8, characterized in that R is an alkyl group having 1 to 6 carbon atoms. 10. A liquid crystal material according to claim 9, characterized in that n is 2. 11. A liquid crystal material according to claim 8, characterized in that R is an alkyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, and n is 2. 12. A liquid crystal material according to claim 11, characterized in that the benzoate compound is represented by the formula EMI12.1 13. A liquid crystal material according to claim 11, characterized in that the benzoate compound is represented by the formula EMI12.2 14. A liquid crystal material according to claim 11, characterized in that the benzoate compound is represented by EMI12.3 15. A liquid crystal material according to claim 8, characterized in that the benzoate compound has an N I point of not lower than 1700 C. 16. A liquid crystal material according to claim 8, characterized in that the benzoate compound has a C N point of not higher than 1300C. 17. A liquid crystal material according to claim 8, characterized in that the benzoate compound has a dielectric anisotropy not lower than 20. 18. A liquid crystal material according to claim 8, containing at least one liquid crystal selected from the group consisting of Schiff base , azo , azoxy , ester , trans cyclohexane , biphenyl , dioxane and pyrimidine liquid crystals.

## Description
P cyanobiphenylyl p X alkoxyalkyl benzoate compound and liquid crystal material The present invention relates to a p cyanobiphenylyl p w alkoxyalkyl benzoate compound and a liquid crystal material. Liquid crystal display elements utilizing the electro optic effects of liquid crystals are widely used in display devices for displaying characters, numerals and images in watches, electronic calculators and television sets. The electro optic effect of liquid crystals include, e.g., dynamic scattering DS effect, twisted nematic TN effect, the guest host G H effect and the electrically controlled birefringence homeotropic DAP effect. These electro optic effects are utilized in various display devices in accordance with their applications. As a liquid crystal element utilizing the TN effect or G H effect, an optical shutter is known in which transmission and shielding of light through a liquid crystal composition is controlled by an electric field. Methods of electrically driving such a liquid crystal element include the static drive method and the dynamic drive method. An AC voltage is used as the drive voltage of liquid crystals. The two frequency drive method is known as a voltage application method for electrically controlling a liquid crystal utilizing the dielectric scattering phenomenon of liquid crystals. In this method, when a low frequency voltage is applied, the liquid crystal molecular axis is aligned in the direction of an electric field. When a high frequency voltage is applied, the liquid crystal molecular axis is aligned in a direction perpendicular to the direction of the electric field. In a liquid crystal used in any type of liquid crystal element, predetermined characteristics such as operating temperature, response time, drive voltage or viscosity must be satisfied in accordance with an application of the element, type of electro optic effect utilized, drive method, waveform of the application voltage and the like. Since a single liquid crystal compound cannot satisfy such various types of characteristics, a liquid crystal material used in a liquid crystal element is usually provided by a liquid crystal mixture containing a plurality of liquid crystals each having different characteristics. Such a liquid crystal material, as a whole, satisfies required characteristics of an intended element by the complementary effects of the characteristics of the respective constituent liquid crystal compounds. In order to widen an operating temperature range and to exhibit a liquid crystal state even at high temperatures, a liquid crystal mixture normally contains a liquid crystal compound which has a high nematicisotropic transition point N I point . However, conventional liquid crystal compounds of this type which have high dielectric anisotropy As have high viscosity or poor miscibility with other liquid crystal compounds in addition to having a relatively narrow temperature range in which they exhibit a liquid crystal state.Other conventional liquid crystal compounds which have low viscosity have small dielectric anisotropy. Thus, a liquid crystal compound having a high dielectric anisotropy, an excellent miscibility with other liquid crystal compounds and a capacity for not rendering the overall composition highly viscous upon admixture with other liquid crystal compounds, has not previously been available. It is, therefore, an object of the present invention to provide a compound useful as a liquid crystal having a high N I point, a high dielectric anisotropy, an excellent miscibility with other liquid crystal compounds low crystal nematic transition point C N point , and a capacity for not rendering the overall composition highly viscous upon admixture with other liquid crystal compounds. It is another object of the present invention to provide a liquid crystal material which contains such a liquid crystal compound, has a wide operating temperature range and a low viscosity, and is suitable for driving by low voltages. In order to achieve the above objects of the present invention, there is provided a p cyanobiphenylyl p w alkoxyalkyl 3 benzoate compound represented by general formula I below EMI3.1 wherein R is an alkyl group having 1 to 8 carbon atoms, and n is an integer of 1 to 3 . There is also provided, according to the present invention, a liquid crystal material comprising at least one compound represented by general formula I . This invention can be more fully understood from the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which Figs. 1 to 3 show the infrared ray absorption spectra of benzoate compounds according to the present invention. As described above, a compound of the present invention is a p cyanobiphenylyl 5p alkoxyalkyl benzoate compound represented by general formula EMI3.2 In general formula I above, R is an alkyl group having 1 to 8 carbon atoms and n is an integer of 1 to 3. When the number of carbon atoms of the alkyl group, repre sented by R, exceeds 9, the resultant compound tends to exhibit the smectic phase, tends not to exhibit the nematic phase, has a high viscosity and has low compatibility with other liquid crystals. This is inconvenient for practical application. Preferably, R is an alkyl group having 1 to 6 carbon atoms. More preferably, R is an alkyl group methyl group, ethyl group, propyl group or butyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms. Note that n is, preferably, 2 A compound of the present invention represented by general formula I can be manufactured in the following manner. First, a w phenylalkyl alcohol, represented by formula EMI4.1 where n has the same meaning as in general tormula I above is reacted with an acetylating reagent such as acetyl chloride so as to prepare l acetyl 4 wacetyloxyalkyl benzene, represented by formula EMI4.2 This reaction is performed in a suitable organic solvent e.g., hexane in the presence of a Lewis acid such as aluminum chloride, and at a low temperature of 50C to OOC. The acetylating reagent is used in an amount of 2 moles or more per mole of the alcohol of formula A .The Lewis acid is used in an amount of 2 moles or more per mole of the alcohol of formula A . Then, the compound of formula B is hydrolysed in the presence of sodium hydroxide to l acetyl 4 w hydroxyalkyl benzene, represented by EMI4.3 This hydrolysis is performed using a 1 to 3 normal N sodium hydroxide aqueous solution in an amount of 1.5 moles or more per mole of the compound of formula B , and a temperature of 80 C to 980C. The compound of formula C is reacted with an alkylating reagent in an organic solvent such as tetrahydrofuran at a temperature of, e.g., 5 to 100C, so as to prepare l acetyl 4 X alkoxyalkyl benzene, represented by EMI5.1 where R has the same meaning as in general formula I .Examples of the alkylating reagent used in this reaction may include dimethyl sulfate when R is methyl group , diethyl sulfate when R is ethyl group , and alkyl halide when R is an alkyl group having 3 to 8 carbon atoms . This reaction is performed in the presence of sodium hydride in an amount of 1.5 moles or more per mole of the compound of formula c . The alkylation agent is used in an amount of 1 to 4 moles per mole of the compound of general formula C . Subsequently, the compound of formula D is oxidized using an oxidizing agent such as sodium hypochlorite and a temperature of 40 to 800 C, so as to prepare p w alkoxyalkyl benzoic acid, represented by formula EMI5.2 The oxidizing reagent is used in an amount of one mole or more per mole of the compound of formula D . Finally, the compound of formula E is reacted with a substantially equimolar amount of 4 cyano 4 hydroxybiphenyl so as to obtain a compound represented by general formula I , above. This reaction is performed in an organic solvent such as pyridine or a mixture of pyridine and ethyl acetate in the presence of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide in an amount of 1.5 moles or more per mole of the compound of formula E at a temperature of 250 C. The compound of the present invention, prepared in this manner, has a high N I point 1700C or higher , a large dielectric anisotropy t 20 or more , and a lowC N point 1300C or lower . Compounds of the present invention can be used as a component of liquid crystal compositions used in watches, electronic calculators, television sets, optical shutter elements, dot matrix display liquid crystal elements and 2 frequency drive liquid crystal elements. Liquid crystal compounds admixed with a compound of the present invention may include Schiff base , azo , azoxy , ester , trans cyclohexane , biphenyl , dioxane and pyrimidine liquid crystals. A liquid crystal material containing at least one compound according to the present invention provides a display function based on various electro optic effects when the material is sealed between a pair of electrodes at least one of which is transparent and a drive voltage is applied between the electrodes. The amount of compound of general formula I mixed in the liquid crystal composition according to the present invention is normally 5 to 30 by weight, depending upon application and purpose of the resultant element. The present invention will be described by way ofExamples. aExample 1Preparation of Compound of General Formula I Wherein n 2 and R Ethyl Group i 300 mQ of hexane were cooled to 100C, and 195.6 g of anhydrous aluminum chloride were added thereto.60.0 g of phenethyl alcohol were gradually added to the resultant mixture, under agitation, at the same temperature. After the addition was terminated, 116 g of acetyl chloride were added while the reaction temperature was kept at 5 to OOC. The mixture was stirred for about 3 hours until no hydrochloric acid gas was produced. Thereafter, the reaction mixture was added to ice water and extracted with benzene. The benzene phase was washed with water. 400 mQ of 2N sodium hydroxide solution were added to the benzene phase, and the resultant mixture was heated to 950C to perform hydrolysis while recovering the solvent. The reaction mixture was added to ice water to precipitate the reaction product, and the precipitate was filtered and washed with water to obtain 70 g of crude p acetylphenethyl alcohol n 2 in formula C . ii Seven grams of the p acetylphenethyl alcohol, obtained in step i , were dissolved in 60 mQ of anhydrous tetrahydrofuran. 5.0 g of 50 sodium hydride were added to the solution while the temperature was kept at 5 to 10 C. Ten milliliters of diethyl sulfate were gradually added to the mixture under agitation.After the reaction temperature was raised to 500C to terminate the reaction, the reaction mixture was extracted with benzene. After the benzene phase was washed with water, 100 mZ of 7 aqueous solution of sodium hypochlorite was added. The temperature was raised to 800C while recovering the benzene, thereby terminating the oxidation. Thereafter, sodium sulfite was added to consume excess sodium hypochlorite. After activated carbon was added, the mixture was filtered and the aqueous phase was neutralized with hydrochloric acid so as to provide 4.5 g of crude p B ethoxyethyl benzoic acid n 2 and R ethyl group in formula E . iii 3.0 g of the p B ethoxyethyl benzoic acid obtained in step ii above were dissolved in a solvent mixture consisting of 20 mZ of ethyl acetate and 10 mQ of pyridine. The temperature of the mixture was kept at 250C, and 3.9 g of 4 cyano 4 hydroxybiphenyl were added. While the mixture was agitated, 5.2 g of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added thereto and the mixture was allowed to react at the same temperature for 3 days. The mixture was then filtered and washed with benzene to separate by produced dicyclohexylurea, and concentrate the mother liquor. Methanol was added to the concentrate to precipitate crude p cyanobiphenylyl p ethoxyethyl benzoate. The crude product was dissolved in benzene.After adding silica gel, the solution was filtered and the mother liquor was concentrated. Methanol was added to the concentrate to allow crystal precipitation, and the precipitate was recrystallized from ethanol so as to obtain 2.9 g of the objective refined p cyanobiphenylyl tp ss ethoxyethyl benzoate. Fig. 1 shows the infrared ray spectrum KBr pellet of this final compound. The compound had a C N point of 1240 C, an N I point of above 1710C and a dielectric anisotropy t of about 30.Example 2Preparation of Compound of General Formula I Wherein n 2 and R Methyl Group A desired compound was prepared following the same procedures as in Example 1, except that an equimolar amount of dimethyl sulfate was used in place of diethyl sulfate, as used in step ii of Example 1. Fig. 2 shows the infrared ray spectrum KBr pellet of this compound. The compound had a C N point of 1250 C, an N I point of 2320C and a dielectric anisotropy t of 20 or more.Example 3Preparation of Compound of General Formula I Wherein n 2 and R Butyl Group i 7.0 grams of p acetylphenethyl alcohol obtained in step i of Example 1 were dissolved in 60 mQ of anhydrous tetrahydrofuran. While the solution was kept at 5 to 100C, 4.0 g of 50 sodium hydride were added.Under agitation, 10 mQ of n butylbromide and 1 mQ of hexamethyl phosphoamide were added, and the temperature was gradually raised to 20 250C to terminate the reaction. Methanol was added to the reaction mixture so as to decompose excess sodium hydride. The reaction mixture was dried at a reduced pressure, and extracted with benzene. The benzene phase was washed with water and concentrated to provide crude p acetyl ss n butoxyethylbenzene. 150 mZ of an aqueous solution of sodium hypochlorite was added to the crude product and the mixture was allowed to react at 400C under agitation. The reaction product was washed with benzene.After sodium sulfite was added to the aqueous phase, it was treated with activated carbon. Thus, 2.5 g of crude p B n butoxyethyl benzoic acid were obtained. ii The desired p cyanobiphenylyl p B n butoxyethyl benzoate was prepared following the same procedures as in step iii of Example 1, except that an equimolar amount of the p B n butoxyethyl benzoic acid in step i of this Example was used instead of the benzoic acid compound used in step iii of Example 1.Fig. 3 shows the infrared ray absorption spectrum KBr pellet of this compound. The compound had a C N point of 880C, an N I point of above 1770C and a dielectric anisotropy t of about 26. Example 4 The compounds obtained in the above Examples were mixed with other liquid crystal mixtures consisting of 30 parts by weight of 4 ethoxyphenyl trans 4propylcyclohexylcarboxylate, 30 parts by weight of 4 butoxyphenyl trans 4 propylcyclohexylcarboxylate and 30 parts by weight of 4 ethoxyphenyl trans 4butylcyclohexylcarboxylate. The viscosity at 250C, and the dielectric anisotropy t , upon application of 200 Hz voltage of each liquid crystal composition prepared in this manner, were measured. The obtained results are shown in Table 1 below. Table 1EMI9.1 tb Example SEP No. SEP of SEP Compound SEP Used SEP Viscosity SEP cP tb None SEP 15.3 SEP 1.2 tb Example SEP 1 SEP 20 SEP 1.9 tb Example SEP 3 SEP 22.4 SEP 1.5 tb As described above, the p cyanobiphenylyl p w alkoxyalkyl benzoate compound according to the present invention has, as a liquid crystal, a high dielectric anisotropy AE, a wide operating temperature range in which it exhibits the liquid crystal state and a low C N point. For this reason, the compound of the present invention has an excellent miscibility with other liquid crystals and will not, upon being mixed with other liquid crystals, increase the viscosity of the liquid crystal composition. A liquid crystal composition using a compound according to the present invention has, owing to the above mentioned characteristics of the compound, a wide operating temperature range and a low viscosity, despite its high dielectric anisotropy t , and can be operated by a low voltage due to high dielectric anisotropy AE .