# 3 CARBONYL 1 AMINOALKYL 1H INDOLES USEFUL AS ANALGESICS AND PREPARATION THEREOF

## Claims
Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragsstaaten BE, CH, DE, FR, GB, IT, LI, NL, SE

## Description
This invention relates to 3 substituted 1 aminoalkyl 1H indoles which are useful as analgesic, anti rheumatic and anti inflammatory agents. U.S. Patent 3,946,029 discloses compounds having the formula where, Essentially the same disclosure is found in Inion et al., Eur. J. of Med. Chem., U.S. Patent 3,489,770 generically discloses compounds having the formula where, Tambute, Acad. Sci. Comp. Rend., Ser. C, where n is 2 or 3. No utility for the compounds is given. U.S.A. 3217011 and 3527761 show other 1,3 disubstituted 1H indoles which The present invention relates to 2 R₂ 3 R₃ carbonyl 1 aminoalkyl 1H indoles, which are useful as analgestic, anti rheumatic and anti inflammatory agents, having the formula where Preferred compounds of formula I above are those where Particularly preferred compounds of formula I within the ambit of the invention as defined above are those where Other preferred compounds of formula I within the ambit of the invention as defined above are those where Still other preferred compounds of formula I within the ambit of the invention as defined above are those where Also considered to be within the ambit of the invention are compounds having the formulas Ia and Ib where R₂, R₃, R₄, Alk, Z and N B have the meanings given above. As used herein, unless specifically defined otherwise, the terms lower alkyl, lower alkoxy and lower alkanoyl mean monovalent, aliphatic radicals, including branched chain radicals, of from one to four carbon atoms, for example, methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, sec. butyl, methoxy, ethoxy, propoxy, isopropoxy, butoxy, sec. butoxy, formyl, acetyl, propionyl, butyryl and isobutyryl. As used herein, the term cycloalkyl means saturated alicyclic groups having from three to seven ring carbon atoms, including cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl and cycloheptyl. As used herein, the term halo means fluoro, chloro or bromo. In one method, the compounds of formula I where C Z is C O are prepared by reacting a 2 R₂ 3 R₃ carbonyl 1H indole of formula II with an amino lower alkyl halide in the presence of an acid acceptor where R₂, R₃, R₄, Alk and N B have the meanings given above and X represents halogen. The reaction is preferably carried out in an organic solvent inert under the conditions of the reaction such as dimethylformamide hereinafter DMF , dimethylsulfoxide hereinafter DMSO , a lower alkanol or acetonitrile. Suitable acid acceptors are an alkali metal carbonate, such as sodium carbonate or potassium carbonate, or an alkali metal hydride, such as sodium hydride, an alkali metal amide, such as sodamide, or an alkali metal hydroxide, such as potassium hydroxide. Preferred solvents are DMF and DMSO, and preferred acid acceptors are sodium hydride, potassium carbonate and potassium hydroxide. The reaction is carried out at a temperature in the range from around 0 C. to the boiling point of the solvent used. The 2 R₂ 3 R₃ carbonyl 1H indoles of formula II are in turn prepared by reacting a 2 R₂ indole with a lower alkyl magnesium halide and reacting the resulting Grignard with an appropriate R₃ carboxylic acid halide. The reaction is carried out in an organic solvent inert under the conditions of the reaction, such as dimethyl ether, dioxane or tetrahydrofuran hereinafter THF , at a temperature in the range from 5 C. to the boiling point of the solvent used. Certain compounds within the ambit of formula II, namely those of formula II where R 2 is hydrogen, lower alkyl or phenyl R₃ is fluorophenyl, difluorophenyl, lower alkoxyphenyl, di lower alkoxyphenyl, lower alkoxy fluorophenyl, methylenedioxyphenyl, aminophenyl, cyanophenyl, 2 or 4 biphenyl, 1 or 2 naphthyl or lower alkoxy substituted 1 or 2 naphthyl and R 4 is hydrogen or fluoro are novel and comprise a further aspect of this invention. In another method, the compounds of formula I where C Z is C O are prepared by reacting a 2 R₂ 1 aminoalkyl 1H indole of formula III with an appropriate R₃ carboxylic acid halide R₃ CO X in the presence of a Lewis acid, such as aluminum chloride, and in an organic solvent inert under the conditions of the reaction. Suitable solvents are chlorinated hydrocarbons such as methylene dichloride hereinafter MDC or ethylene dichloride hereinafter EDC . The reaction is carried out at a temperature from 0 C. to the boiling point of the solvent used. The method is illustrated by the reaction where R₂, R₃, R₄, Alk, N B and X have the meanings given above. The intermediate 2 R₂ 1 aminoalkyl 1H indoles of formula III wherein R₂, R₄, Alk and N B have the previously given meanings comprise yet a further aspect of the present invention. These compounds are prepared by one of two methods. In one method, a 2 R₂ indole of formula IV is reacted with an amino lower alkyl halide in the presence of an acid acceptor, in an organic solvent inert under the conditions of the reaction using the same conditions described above for the preparation of the compounds of formula I by alkylation of the compounds of formula II. In a second method, a 2 R₂ indole of formula IV is reacted with a halo lower alkanamide in the presence of a strong base, and the resulting 2 R₂ 1H indole 1 alkanamide of formula V is then reduced with lithium aluminum hydride. The reaction of the 2 R₂ indole of formula IV with the halo lower alkanamide is carried out in an appropriate organic solvent, such as DMF, at a temperature from 5 C. to about 50 C. The reduction of the amides of formula V with lithium aluminum hydride is carried out in an inert organic solvent, such as diethyl ether, THF or dioxane, at a temperature from 5 C. to about 50 C. The two methods are illustrated by the following reaction sequence where R₂, R₄, Alk and N B have the meanings given above, and Alk is lower alkylene having the formula CH₂ In another method for preparing the compounds of formula I where C Z is C O, a 2 R₂ 3 R₃ carbonyl 1 2 tosyloxy lower alkyl or 2 halo lower alkyl 1H indole of formula VI is reacted with a molar equivalent amount of an amine, H N B, in an organic solvent inert under the conditions of the reaction, such as acetonitrile, a lower alkanol or DMF. The reaction is preferably carried out by heating a solution of the reactants at the boiling point of the mixture. The method is illustrated by the reaction where R₂, R₃, R₄ and N B have the meanings given above, and X represents a toluenesulfonyl or halo group. The 2 R₂ 3 R₃ carbonyl 1 2 tosyloxy lower alkyl or 1 2 halo lower alkyl 1H indoles of formula VI, where Alk is 1,2 ethylene, are in turn prepared by reaction of a 2 R₂ 3 R₃ carbonyl indole of formula II with a lower alkyl lithium, for example n butyl lithium, in an inert organic solvent, such as THF, dioxane or diethyl ether, followed by reaction of the resulting lithium salt with ethylene oxide. Reaction of the resulting 2 R₂ 3 R₃ carbonyl 1 2 hydroxyethyl 1H indole with toluenesulfonyl chloride in the presence of an acid acceptor affords the 1 2 tosyloxyethyl 1H indoles, while reaction of the product with a phosphorus trihalide affords the corresponding 1 2 haloethyl 1H indoles. The 2 R₂ 3 R₃ carbonyl 1 2 halo lower alkyl 1H indoles of formula VI, where Alk has the other possible meanings, are prepared by reaction of a 2 R₂ 3 R₃ carbonyl indole of formula II with an α,ω dihalo lower alkane in the presence of a strong base, such as sodium hydride in an inert organic solvent, such as DMF. The reaction generally occurs at ambient temperature. The compounds of formula Ia are prepared by reaction of a 2 R₂ 3 formyl 1 aminoalkyl 1H indole with an appropriate methyl R₃ ketone according to the reaction where R₂, R₃, R₄, Alk and N B have the meanings given above. The reaction is carried out in the presence of a mineral acid and in an organic solvent inert under the conditions of the reaction. Preferred solvents are lower alkanols, such as methanol or ethanol. The compounds of formula Ib, where Z is C O, are prepared by reaction of a 2 R₂ 3 R₃ carbonylindole of formula II with an epihalohydrin in the presence of a strong base, such as an alkali metal hydride, in an inert solvent, such as DMF or DMSO, and reaction of the resulting 2 R₂ 3 R₃ carbonyl 1 1 2,3 epoxy propyl 1H indole with an appropriate amine, H N B, according to the reactions where R₂, R₃, R₄, Alk and N B have the meanings given above. Another method for preparing the compounds of formula I where R₄ is 5 hydroxy and C Z is C O comprises reacting benzoquinone with an appropriate N N B Alk N 1 R₂ 3 oxo 3 R₃ propenyl amine of formula VII in an inert, water immiscible organic solvent, such as nitromethane. The N N B alkyl N 1 R₂ 3 oxo 3 R₃ propenyl amine in turn is prepared by reaction of a 1,3 diketone, R₂COCH₂COR₃, with an appropriate aminoalkylamine, N B Alk NH₂ under dehydrating conditions. The reaction is preferably carried out by heating a solution of the reactants in an inert, water immiscible solvent under a Dean Stark trap. The method is represented by the reaction sequence By further chemical manipulations of various functional groups in the compounds of formulas I, Ia and Ib prepared by one or more of the above described methods, other compounds within the ambit of the invention can be prepared. For example the compounds where R₃ is aminophenyl are advantageously prepared from the corresponding species where R₃ is nitrophenyl by reduction of the latter. The reduction can be carried out either catalytically with hydrogen, for example over a platinum oxide catalyst at ambient temperature and in an appropriate organic solvent, such as a lower alkanol, ethyl acetate or acetic acid or mixtures thereof, at hydrogen pressures from around 30 to 60 p.s.i.g., or alternatively the reduction can be carried out chemically, for example with iron in the presence of hydrochloric acid in an appropriate organic solvent, for example a lower alkanol. The reaction is carried out at temperatures from ambient to the boiling point of the solvent used for the reaction. The aminophenyl compounds thus prepared can then be acylated or sulfonylated to prepare compounds where R₃ is lower alkanoylaminophenyl, benzoylaminophenyl, trifluoroacetylaminophenyl or lower alkylsulfonylaminophenyl by reaction of an appropriate acid anhydride or acid halide with the corresponding species where R₃ is aminophenyl. It is advantageous, although not essential, to carry out the reaction in the presence of an acid acceptor, such as an alkali metal carbonate, for example potassium carbonate, or a tri lower alkylamine, such as trimethylamine or tri ethylamine. The reaction is carried out in an inert organic solvent at a temperature in the range from 5 C. to around 80 C. Suitable solvents are acetic acid, MDC, EDC or toluene. Other simple chemical transformations which are entirely conventional and well known to those skilled in the art of chemistry and which can be used for effecting changes in functional groups attached to the R₃ carbonyl group, C O R₃, involve cleavage of ether functions on aryl groups R₃ is phenyl substituted by lower alkoxy, methylenedioxy or benzyloxy or 2 or 3 naphthyl substituted by lower alkoxy for example with aqueous alkali or a pyridine hydrohalide salt, to produce the corresponding phenolic compound R₃ is hydroxyphenyl or hydroxy 1 or 2 naphthyl preparation of compounds where R₃ is phenyl substituted by a variety of amine functions by reaction of the corresponding halophenyl species with an appropriate amine catalytic debenzylation of benzyloxy substituted species to prepare the corresponding phenolic compound R₃ is hydroxyphenyl catalytic reduction of a nitrile function to produce the corresponding aminomethyl substituted species R₃ is aminomethylphenyl saponification of amide groups where R₃ is phenyl substituted by lower alkanoylamino, benzoylamino, trifluoroacetylamino, lower alkylsulfonylamino, carbamylamino to produce the corresponding amino compounds acylation of hydroxy substituted species of N B to produce the corresponding esters acylation of amino substituted species of N B to prerare the corresponding amides oxidation of sulfides of N B to prepare either the corresponding S oxides or S,S dioxides reductive alkylation of amino substituted species of R₃ and or N B to prepare the corresponding mono or di lower alkylamino substituted species reaction of amino substituted species with an alkali metal isocyanate to prepare the corresponding carbamylamino substituted species R₃ is carbamylaminophenyl reaction of an aminomethyl substituted species with a di lower alkylcyanocarbonimidodithioate and reaction of the resulting product with ammonia to prepare the corresponding N cyanoguanidinylmethyl substituted species R₃ is cyanoguanidinylmethylphenyl reduction of a cyano substituted species with sodium hypophosphite to prepare a corresponding formyl substituted compound R₃ is formylphenyl reaction of a formylphenyl species and or a R₃ carbonyl species with hydroxylamine to prepare the corresponding oximino methylenephenyl substituted species R₃ is oximinomethylenephenyl and or the R₃ carbonyl oximes C X is C NOH reaction of an aminophenyl species with a 2,5 di lower alkoxytetrahydrofuran to prepare a 1 pyrrolyl phenyl substituted species R₃ is 1 pyrrolylphenyl oxidation of the N B function when an amine group, for example by fermentative procedures, to prepare the corresponding N oxides or reaction of a 1 aminoalkyl 1H indole of formula III where R₂ is hydrogen with hexamethylenephosphoramide followed by a lower alkyl halide to prepare the corresponding compounds of formula III where R₂ is lower alkyl. The compounds of formulas I, Ia, Ib and III in free base form are converted to the acid addition salt form by interaction of the base with an acid. In like manner, the free base can be regenerated from the acid addition salt form in conventional manner, that is by treating the salts with cold, weak aqueous bases, for example alkali metal carbonates and alkali metal bicarbonates. The bases thus regenerated can be interacted with the same or a different acid to give back the same or a different acid addition salt. Thus the novel bases and all of their acid addition salts are readily interconvertible. It will thus be appreciated that formulas I, Ia, Ib and III not only represent the structural configuration of the bases of formulas I, Ia, Ib and III but are also representative of the structural entities which are common to all of the compounds of formulas I, Ia, Ib and III, whether in the form of the free base or in the form of the acid addition salts of the base. It has been found that, by virtue of these common structural entities the bases of formulas I, Ia and Ib, and certain of the bases of formula III, and their acid addition salts have inherent pharmacological activity of a type to be more fully described hereinbelow. This inherent pharmacological activity can be enjoyed in useful form for pharmaceutical purposes by employing the free bases themselves or the acid addition salts formed from pharmaceutically acceptable acids, that is acids whose anions are innocuous to the animal organism in effective doses of the salts so that beneficial properties inherent in the common structural entity represented by the free bases are not vitiated by side effects ascribable to the anions. In utilizing this pharmacological activity of the salts of the invention, it is preferred, of course, to use pharmaceutically acceptable salts. Although water insolubility, high toxicity or lack of crystalline character may make some particular salt species unsuitable or less desirable for use as such in a given pharmaceutical application, the water insoluble or toxic salts can be converted to the corresponding pharmaceutically acceptable bases by decomposition of the salts with aqueous base as explained above, or alternatively they can be converted to any desired pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt by double decomposition reactions involving the anion, for example by ion exchange procedures. Moreover, apart from their usefulness in pharmaceutical applications, the salts are useful as characterizing or identifying derivatives of the free bases or in isolation or purification procedures. Like all of the acid addition salts, such characterizing or purification salt derivatives can, if desired, be used to regenerate the pharmaceutically acceptable free bases by reaction of the salts with aqueous base, or alternatively they can be converted to a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt by, for example, ion exhange procedures. The novel feature of the compounds of the invention, then, resides in the concept of the bases and cationic forms of the new 2 R₂ 3 R₃ carbonyl 1 aminoalkyl 1H indoles of formulas I, Ia and Ib and the 2 R₂ 1 aminoalkyl 1H indoles of formula III and not in any particular acid moiety or acid anion associated with the salt forms of the compounds rather, the acid moieties or anions which can be associated with the salt forms are in themselves neither novel nor critical and therefore can be any acid anion or acid like substance capable of salt formation with the bases. Thus appropriate acid addition salts are those derived from such diverse acids as formic acid, acetic acid, isobutyric acid, alpha mercaptopropionic acid, malic acid, fumaric acid, succinic acid, succinamic acid, tartaric acid, citric acid, lactic acid, benzoic acid, 4 methoxybenzoic acid, phthalic acid, anthranilic acid, 1 naphthalenecarboxylic acid, cinnamic acid, cyclohexanecarboxylic acid, mandelic acid, tropic acid, crotonic acid, acetylenedicarboxylic acid, sorbic acid, 2 furancarboxylic acid, cholic acid, pyrenecarboxylic acid, 2 pyridinecarboxylic acid, 3 indoleacetic acid, quinic acid, sulfamic acid, methanesulfonic acid, isethionic acid, benzenesulfonic acid, p toluenesulfonic acid, benzenesulfinic acid, butylarsonic acid, diethylphosphonic acid, p aminophenylarsinic acid, phenylstibnic acid, phenylphosphinous acid, methylphosphinic acid, phenylphosphinic acid, hydrofluoric acid, hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, hydriodic acid, perchloric acid, nitric acid, sulfuric acid, phosphoric acid, hydrocyanic acid, phosphotungstic acid, molybdic acid, phosphomolybdic acid, pyrophosphoric acid, arsenic acid, picric acid, picrolonic acid, barbituric acid, boron trifluoride and the like. The acid addition salts are prepared by reacting the free base and the acid in an organic solvent and isolating the salt directly or by concentration of the solution. In standard pharmacological test procedures, the compounds of formulas I, Ia and Ib have been found to possess analgesic, anti rheumatic and anti inflammatory activities and are thus useful as analgesic, anti rheumatic and anti inflammatory agents. Certain of the compounds of formula II have been found to possess anti rheumatic activity, and certain of the compounds of formula III have been found to possess analgesic activity, thus indicating usefulness of those species as anti rheumatic and analgesic agents, respectively. The test procedures used to determine the analgesic activities of the compounds have been described in detail in the prior art and are as follows The acetylcholine induced abdominal constriction test, which is a primary analgesic screening test designed to measure the ability of a test agent to suppress acetylcholine induced abdominal constriction in mice, described by Collier et al., Brit. J. Pharmacol. Chemotherap. Anti rheumatic and anti inflammatory activities of the compounds of the invention were determined using the developing adjuvant arthritis assay in rats, the plasma fibronectin assay in arthritic rats and the pleurisy macrophage assay in rats. The developing adjuvant arthritis assay was used in conjunction with the plasma fibronectin assay as a primary screening method in the evaluation of compounds for potential use as disease modifying anti rheumatic drugs. The procedure used to induce arthritis in rats is a modification of the methods published by Pearson, J. Chron. Dis. The important role played by fibronectin in arthritis has been evidenced by clinical Scott et al., Ann. Rheum. Dis. The pleurisy macrophage assay is designed to define anti arthritic drugs which inhibit macrophage accumulation in the pleural cavity following injection of an inflammatory stimulus. Standard disease modifying anti rheumatic drugs are active in this assay while nonsteroidal anti inflammatory drugs are not. The activity of species in the pleurisy macrophage model thus indicates disease modifying anti rheumatic drug activity. The macrophage is the characteristic cell type in chronic inflammatory responses in the rheumatoid synovium as well as other sites. When activated, macrophages produce a large variety of secretory products, including neutral proteases which play a destructive role in arthritis Ackerman et al., J. Pharmacol. Exp. Thera. The compounds of formulas I, Ia, Ib, II and III of the invention can be prepared for pharmaceutical use by incorporating them in unit dosage form as tablets or capsules for oral or parenteral administration either alone or in combination with suitable adjuvants such as calcium carbonate, starch, lactose, talc, magnesium stearate, gum acacia and the like. Still further, the compounds can be formulated for oral or parenteral administration either in aqueous solutions of the water soluble salts or in aqueous alcohol, glycol or oil solutions or oil water emulsions in the same manner as conventional medicinal substances are prepared. The percentages of active component in such compositions may be varied so that a suitable dosage is obtained. The dosage administered to a particular patient is variable, depending upon the clinician s judgment using as criteria the route of administration, the duration of treatment, the size and physical condition of the patient, the potency of the active component and the patient s response thereto. An effective dosage amount of the active component can thus only be determined by the clinician after a consideration of all criteria and using his best judgment on the patient s behalf. The molecular structures of the compounds of the invention were assigned on the basis of study of their infrared, ultraviolet and NMR spectra. The structures were confirmed by the correspondence between calculated and found values for elementary analyses for the elements. The following examples will further illustrate the invention without, however, limiting it thereto. All melting points are uncorrected. To a solution of 0.05 mole of methyl magnesium bromide in about 45 ml. of anhydrous diethyl ether at 0 C. under a nitrogen atmosphere was added, dropwise, a solution containing 6.0 g. 0.04 mole of 2,7 dimethylindole in 30 ml. of anhydrous ether. When addition was complete, the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for one hour, then cooled in an ice bath and treated dropwise with a solution of 8.53 g. 0.05 mole of 4 methoxybenzoyl chloride in 20 ml. of anhydrous ether. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for approximately twelve hours, then on a steam bath for two hours and then treated with ice water. Excess ammonium chloride was added, and the ether layer was separated, dried and evaporated to dryness to give a solid which was collected by filtration and washed thoroughly with water and ether to give 8.5 g. 76 of Following a procedure similar to that described above in Preparation 1A, substituting for the 2,7 dimethyl indole and the 4 methoxybenzoyl chloride used therein an appropriate 2 R₂ R₄ indole and an appropriate aroyl chloride R₃CO Cl , the following species of formula II listed in Table A were prepared. In some instances the products, without further purification, were used directly in the next step of the synthesis of the final products of formula I, and no melting points were taken. In a few cases, the weight of the products was not obtained, and so calculation of yields of products in those instances are not possible. Here and elsewhere in the tables included with this specification, the melting point of the product in C. and the recrystallization solvent are given in columns headed m.p. Solv. , and the yield, in percent, of product is given in columns headed Yield . A mixture of 50 g. 0.03 mole of phenylmercaptoacetone and 76.8 g. 0.3 mole of 3 benzyloxyphenylhydrazine in 750 ml. of ethanol was heated on a steam bath for six hours and then stirred at room temperature for about twelve hours. The solid which separated was collected, washed with water and the filtrate set aside. The solid was dissolved in methylene dichloride, the organic solution was washed with water, then with dilute hydrochloric acid, dried over magnesium sulfate, filtered and taken to dryness to yield a first crop of crude product which was stirred with ether for about forty eight hours and then filtered and dried to give 56 g. of product. The original filtrate, previously set aside, was mixed with methylene dichloride, and the organic layer was washed with water, then with dilute hydrochloric acid, dried over magnesium sulfate, filtered and concentrated to dryness to give 40 g. of additional product which was recrystallized from diethyl ether methylene dichloride to give 29.7 g. of product combined yield 71.7 g., 69 of A mixture of 25 g. 0.072 mole of the latter with 50 teaspoons of a Raney nickel ethanol suspension in 1 liter of ethanol was heated under reflux for three hours, stirred at ambient temperature for about twelve hours, then refluxed for an additional three hours and the catalyst removed by filtration. The filtrate was taken to dryness A mixture of 5 g. 0.034 mole of the latter, 5.9 ml 0.051 mole of benzyl chloride and 13.8 g. 0.1 mole of potassium carbonate in 200 ml of DMF was stirred at room temperature for two hours, then heated on a steam bath for two hours and the mixture poured into ice water. The solid which separated was collected, dissolved in ethyl acetate, and the organic solution was washed with water, then with brine, dried over magnesium sulfate, filtered and taken to dryness to give 2.5 g. of To a solution of 20 g. 0.071 mole of 2 methyl 3 4 methylmercaptobenzoyl indole Preparation 1D in 400 ml. of chloroform was added, dropwise with stirring, a solution of 16.7 g. 0.081 mole of 3 chloroperbenzoic acid 80 in 170 ml. of chloroform while cooling the mixture in an ice methanol bath. When addition was complete, the solution was stirred at room temperature for approximately twelve hours and then washed three times with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution and dried over magnesium sulfate. The mixture was filtered, the filtrate was concentrated to near dryness, and the solid which separated was collected and recrystallized from ethyl acetate to give 14.5 g. 69 of 2 Methyl 3 4 nitrobenzoyl indole Preparation 1E 11.2 g., 0.04 mole dissolved in a solution of 100 ml. of glacial acetic acid and 200 ml. of ethyl acetate was reduced with hydrogen over 0.6 g. of platinum oxide catalyst in a Parr shaker, and when reduction was complete, in about two and a half hours, the catalyst was removed by filtration and the solvent taken off To a stirred suspension of 229.5 g. 1.22 moles of N 2 chloroethyl morpholine hydrochloride in 300 ml. of DMSO at ambient temperature was added 200 g. 3.03 moles of 85 potassium hydroxide pellets, and the suspension was stirred for five minutes and then treated dropwise at ambient temperature with a solution of 133.7 g. 1.0 mole of 2 methylindole in 140 ml. of DMSO. The temperature of the reaction mixture gradually rose during the addition of the 2 methylindole as well as on stirring after addition was complete. When the temperature reached 78 C., the mixture was cooled in a water bath until the temperature subsided to 75 C., and the mixture was stirred for a total of three and a half hours while the temperature subsided to ambient. The mixture was then diluted with 1 liter of water and extracted with toluene. The extracts were washed with water, dried over magnesium sulfate and taken to dryness Following a procedure similar to that described above in Preparation 4A, 20.0g. 0.134 mole of 5 fluoro 2 methylindole were reacted with 24.1 g. 0.147 mole of 4 3 chloropropyl morpholine in 46 ml. of dry DMF in the presence of 8.0 g. 0.201 mole of a 60 mineral oil dispersion of sodium hydride. The product was isolated in the form of its maleate salt to give 30.0 g. 81 of Following a procedure similar to that described in Preparation 4A, 50 g. 0.43 mole of indole were reacted with 159 g. 0.85 mole of 4 2 chloroethyl morpholine in 850 ml. of dry DMF in the presence of 209 g. 0.50 mole of a 60 mineral oil dispersion of sodium hydride. The product was isolated in the form of the free base to give 45.6 g. 46 of To a stirred suspension of 322 g. 0.81 mole of a 60 mineral oil dispersion of sodium hydride in 250 ml. of dry DMF was added dropwise a solution of 100 g. 0.67 mole of 5 fluoro 2 methylindole in 300 ml. of dry DMF. The mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for thirty minutes and then treated dropwise with cooling with a solution of 121.5 g. 0.67 mole of ethyl α bromopropionate. Workup of the reaction mixture, after quenching with water and extraction of the product with ethyl acetate, afforded The latter was reduced with 525 ml. of a 1M solution of diisobutyl aluminum in 1150 ml. of toluene to give 130 g. 94 of Following a procedure similar to that described in Preparation 4 above, 32.8 g. 0.25 mole of 2 methylindole in 160 ml. of dry DMF was reacted with 13.4 g. 0.28 mole of a 50 mineral oil dispersion of sodium hydride in 200 ml. of dry DMF, and the resulting sodium salt was then reacted with 62 g. 0.28 mole of 4 α bromopropionyl morpholine in 160 ml. of DMF to give 55.3 g. 59 of The latter 130 g., 0.48 mole , dissolved in 900 ml. of THF, was added to 80 ml. 0.80 mole of a solution of boron methyl sulfide complex in THF under nitrogen while cooling in an ice bath. When addition was complete, the mixture was stirred for eighteen hours at room temperature, heated under reflux for four hours, quenched by addition of about 1 liter of methanol, boiled for about fifteen minutes, concentrated essentially to dryness and then diluted with aqueous 6N hydrochloric acid. The mixture was extracted with methylene dichloride, and the raffinate was basified with 35 sodium hydroxide and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine, dried and concentrated to dryness to give 42.6 g. 34 of Following a procedure similar to that described in Preparation 5A above, 29.29 g. 0.25 mole of indole in 200 ml. of dry DMF was reacted with 13.4 g. 0.28 mole of a 50 mineral oil dispersion of sodium hydride in 200 ml. of dry DMF and the resulting sodium salt reacted with 62.0 g. 0.28 mole of 4 α bromopropionyl morpholine in 200 ml. of dry DMF and the product recrystallized from isopropanol to give 13.7 g. 21 of Following a procedure similar to that described in Preparation 5B, 83 g. 0.63 mole of 2 methylindole was reacted with 30 g. 0.75 mole of a 60 mineral oil dispersion of sodium hydride, and the resulting sodium salt was reacted with a molar equivalent amount of 4 α bromobutyryl morpholine in 100 ml. of DMF. The crude product thus obtained was reduced with 25 g. 0.66 mole of lithium aluminum hydride in 500 ml. of THF. The product was isolated in the form of the hydrochloride to give 53.4 g. 27 of To a solution of 23 g. 0.1 mole of 1 2 4 morpholinyl ethyl 1H indole Preparation 4C in 120 ml. of THF was added 60 ml. of 2.1M butyl lithium in hexane while maintaining the temperature at 0 C. The mixture was allowed to warm up to room temperature and was then treated with 18 ml. of hexamethylphosphoramide followed by 10 ml. of ethyl iodide while maintaining the temperature at 0 C. The mixture was then quenched with ice, extracted with ether, and the combined organic extracts were washed first with water, then with brine, dried over magnesium sulfate, taken to dryness and chromatographed on silica gel, eluting with 40 50 ethyl acetate hexane. Four fractions were obtained which, on evaporation to dryness, afforded 4.0 g. of a yellow oil from the first fraction and 9.6 g., 3.6 g. and 4.2 g. of solid material in the next three fractions. These factions were recrystallized from hexane to give 8.3 g. 32 of To a suspension of 50 g. 0.19 mole of 2 methyl 3 4 methoxybenzoyl indole Preparation 1AU in 400 ml. of THF was added, over a one and a half hour period, 74.25 ml. 0.19 mole of a 2.6M solution of n butyl lithium in hexane. The reaction mixture was stirred for one hour at 0 C., at room temperature for forty five minutes, recooled to 0 C. and treated dropwise, over a thirty minute period, with a solution of 93.7 ml. 0.19 mole of a 2.06 M solution of ethylene oxide in THF. The reaction mixture was gradually allowed to warm to room temperature and then treated with 200 ml. of a saturated ammonium chloride solution. The solvent was removed A solution of 10 g. 0.032 mole of the latter and 6.48 g. 0.034 mole of p toluenesulfonyl chloride in 100 ml. of pyridine was stirred at room temperature for about twelve hours and the reaction mixture diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with water. The organic layer was separated, dried over magnesium sulfate, filtered and concentrated to dryness to give a brown gum. The latter was dissolved in methylene dichloride and the solution chromatographed on a short column of Florisil to give 7.8 g. 52 of Following a procedure similar to that described in Preparation 7A above, 9.75 g. 0.0375 mole of 2 methyl 3 4 cyanobenzoyl indole Preparation 1T in 125 ml. of THF was treated with 16.65 ml. 0.04 mole of a 2.4M solution of n butyl lithium in hexane followed by 11.4 ml. of a 3.5M solution of ethylene oxide in THF to give Following a procedure similar to that described in Preparation 7A above, 20 g. 0.1 mole of 2 methyl 3 4 ethylbenzoyl indole Preparation 1V in 200 ml. of THF was treated with 51 ml. 0.11 mole of a 2.15 M solution of n butyl lithium in hexane followed by 6.16 g. 0.13 mole of ethylene oxide to give 18 g. 73 of A solution of 5.0 g. 0.068 mole of 2 methyl 5 fluoro 3 4 methoxybenzoyl indole Preparation 1F in 100 ml. of dry DMF was cooled in an ice bath at 0 C and then treated with 18.17 g. 0.09 mole of 1,3 dibromopropane. The solution was stirred for a few minutes at 0 C, then treated portionwise with 1.08 g. 0.027 mole of a 60 mineral oil dispersion of sodium hydride, stirred for about fifteen minutes in an ice bath, then for an additional twelve hours at ambient temperature, treated with a small amount of water and taken to dryness Following a procedure similar to that described in Preparation 7D above, 60 g. 0.23 mole of 2 methyl 3 4 methoxybenzoyl indole Preparation 1AU was reacted with 244.1 g. 1.13 mole of 1,4 dibromobutane in 200 ml. of DMF in the presence of 13.8 g. 0.34 mole of a 60 mineral oil dispersion of sodium hydride, and the product recrystallized from ethyl acetate hexane to give 5.0 g. of Following a procedure similar to that described in Preparation 7D above, 35 g. 0.122 mole of 2 methyl 3 1 naphthylcarbonyl indole Preparation 1AM was reacted with 124 g. 0.614 mole of 1,3 dibromopropane in 700 ml of DMF in the presence of 7.5 g. 0.188 mole of a 60 mineral oil dispersion of sodium hydride, and the product purified by chromatography on Kieselgel 60 in 50 ethyl acetate hexane. There was thus obtained 18.38 g. 37 of Following a procedure similar to that described in Preparation 7D above, 73.86 g. 0.3 mole of 2 methyl 3 4 methoxybenzoyl indole Preparation 1AU was reacted with 302.33 g. 1.5 moles of 1,3 dibromopropane in 250 ml. of DMF in the presence of 17.97 g. 0.45 mole of a 60 mineral oil dispersion of sodium hydride. There was thus obtained Following a procedure similar to that described in Preparation 7D above, 15.0 g. 0.053 mole of 5 fluoro 2 methyl 3 4 methoxybenzoyl indole Preparation 1F was reacted with 9.18 g. 0.058 mole of 1 bromo 3 chloropropane in 232 ml. of DMF in the presence of 3.2 g. 0.0795 mole of a 60 mineral oil dispersion of sodium hydride. There was thus obtained 15.3 g. 80 of Following a procedure similar to that described in Preparation 7A above, 24.8 g. 0.087 mole of 2 methyl 3 1 naphthylcarbonyl indole Preparation 1AM in 300 ml. of THF was treated with 35 ml. 0.09 mole of a 2.6M solution of n butyl lithium in hexane followed by 56 ml. of a 2.6M solution of ethylene oxide in THF to give 21.3 g. 74 of A solution of 42 g. 0.116 mole of 5 fluoro 2 methyl 1 1 methyl 2 p toluenesulfonyloxy ethyl 1H indole Preparation 4D and 50 ml. of morpholine in 400 ml. of DMF was heated on a steam bath for seventy two hours, poured into water and the mixture extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were dried and taken to dryness to give 20 g. of crude product which was purified by HPLC, eluting the product with 2 1 hexane ethyl acetate. There was thus obtained 10.4 g. 32 of The second fraction, on conversion to the hydrochloride salt and recrystallization from methanol ether, afforded 1.0 g. of It is contemplated that, by replacing the morpholine in the above described procedure with dimethylamine, the dimethylamino species can be obtained as the major product. Following a procedure similar to that described in Preparation 5A above, 24.0 g. 0.071 mole of 5 fluoro 2 methyl 3 4 methoxybenzoyl indole Preparation 1F in 200 ml. of dry DMF was reacted with 35.2 g. 0.35 mole of epichlorohydrin in the presence of 3.1 g. 0.078 mole of a 60 mineral oil dispersion of sodium hydride in 100 ml. of DMF. The product was recrystallized from ethyl acetatehexane to give 10.6 g. 44 of Following a procedure similar to that described in Preparation 9A above, 100 g. 0.377 mole of 2 methyl 3 4 methoxybenzoyl indole Preparation 1AU in 1500 ml. of DMF was reacted with 174.6 g. 1.89 moles of epichlorohydrin in the presence of 19.92 g. 0.42 mole of a 50 mineral oil dispersion of sodium hydride in 500 ml. of DMF. There was thus obtained Following a procedure similar to that described in Preparation 9A above, 28.7 g. 0.1 mole of 2 methyl 3 1 naphthylcarbonyl indole Preparation 1AM in 165 ml. of DMSO was reacted with 27.39 g. 0.2 mole of epibromohydrin in the presence of 6.6 g. 0.1 mole of powdered potassium hydroxide and the product purified by chromatography on silica gel, eluting with ethyl acetate hexane. There was thus obtained 32.3 g. 95 of Following a procedure similar to that described in Preparation 4 above, 25 g. 0.10 mole of 3 4 methoxybenzoyl indole Preparation 1Z in 100 ml. of DMF was reacted with 5.76 g. 0.12 mole of a 50 dispersion of sodium hydride in mineral oil in 120 ml. of DMF, and the resulting sodium salt was reacted with 0.14 mole of 4 2 chloroethyl morpholine freed from 26.06 g. of the corresponding hydrochloride in 120 ml. of DMF to give 42 g. of the crude product as an oil which, on trituration with ethyl acetate diethyl ether hexane, gave a yellow crystalline solid which was converted to the methanesulfonate salt to afford 9.5 g. 20 of Following a procedure similar to that described in Example 1A above, the following species of formula I in Table 1 were prepared by reaction of a 2 R₂ 3 R₃ carbonyl 1H indole of formula II with an appropriate halo alkylamine or tosyloxyalkylamine. The acid acceptor and reaction solvent used in the reactions are given in the column headed Cat. Solv. . Here and elsewhere in the tables, the form in which the product was isolated, either as the free base or as an acid addition salt, is given in columns headed Base Salt , and the abbreviations Morph. , Pip. and Pyr. in the columns headed N B represent the 4 morpholinyl, 1 piperidinyl and 1 pyrrolidinyl groups, respectively. In Table 1, unless noted otherwise, an appropriate chloroalkylamine was used as the alkylating agent. Here and elsewhere in the specification and the claims, the alkylene groups, Alk, are depicted as they would appear with the 1 indolyl moiety attached to the carbon atom at the left end of the alkylene chain and with the amine group, N B, attached to the carbon at the right end of the chain. To a stirred, refluxing solution of 13.2 g. 0.054 mole of 1 1 methyl 2 4 morpholinyl ethyl 1H indole Preparation 5B in 150 ml. of ethylene dichloride was added, over a period of about one hour, a mixture of 17.35 g. 0.13 mole of aluminum chloride and 10.08 g. 0.065 mole of 4 methylbenzoyl chloride in 200 ml. of ethylene dichloride. When addition was complete, the mixture was heated under reflux under a nitrogen atmosphere for three and a half hours and then poured, with stirring, into 1 liter of ice and water containing 300 ml. of 5N sodium hydroxide. The mixture was transferred to a separatory funnel, the organic layer was separated, and the aqueous layer was washed with an additional 300 ml. of ethylene dichloride. The combined organic extracts were then washed with brine, filtered, dried over magnesium sulfate, filtered again and evaporated to dryness to give a viscous oil 22.55 g. which solidified on cooling. The latter was recrystallized, after charcoaling, from isopropanol to give 15.78 g. 81 of Following a procedure similar to that described in Example 2A above, the following species of formula I in Table 2 below were prepared by reaction of a 2 R₂ 1 aminoalkyl 1H indole of formula III with an appropriate acid chloride R₃CO Cl in the presence of aluminum chloride. The solvent used to carry out the reaction, methylene dichloride MDC or ethylene dichloride EDC , is given in the column headed Solv. A solution of 10 g. 0.022 mole of 2 methyl 3 4 methoxybenzoyl 1 2 p toluenesulfonyloxy ethyl 1H indole Preparation 7A and 8.74 g. 0.086 mole of 4 hydroxy piperidine in 50 ml. of dry acetonitrile was heated under reflux for about forty eight hours, and the mixture was then diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with water. The organic layer was extracted with 2N hydrochloric acid, then with water, and the combined aqueous washings were combined, basified with 10 sodium hydroxide and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were dried over magnesium sulfate, filtered and concentrated to dryness to give the product, in the form of the free base, as a brown oil. The latter was converted to the hydrochloride salt in ethyl acetate and ethereal hydrogen chloride to give 2.6 g. 27 of Following a procedure similar to that described in Example 3A above, the following species of formula I in Table 3 below were prepared by reaction of a 2 methyl 3 R₃ carbonyl 1 2 tosyloxyethyl 1H indole or a 2 methyl 3 R₃ carbonyl 1 halo lower alkyl 1H indole of formula VI with an appropriate amine, HN B, where R₂, in each instance, is CH₃. The starting material in each of Examples 3B 3V, 3AK and 3AM was the corresponding 1 2 tosyloxyethyl 1H indole in Example 3W the corresponding 1 3 chloropropyl 1H indole and in each of Examples 3X 3AJ and 3AL the corresponding 1 bromo lower alkyl 1H indole. Following a procedure similar to that described in Preparation 3 above, 8.0g. 0.02mole of 2 methyl 3 3 nitrobenzoyl 1 2 4 morpholinyl ethyl 1H indole Example 1AD in 175 ml. of ethyl acetate and 75 ml. of acetic acid was reduced with hydrogen in a Parr shaker over 0.3 g. of platinum oxide. The product was isolated in the form of the free base and recrystallized from ethyl acetate to give 6.0 g. 83 of Following a procedure similar to that described in Example 4A above, 28 g. 0.07 mole of 2 methyl 3 4 nitrobenzoyl 1 2 4 morpholinyl ethyl 1H indole Example 1CQ in 100 ml. of glacial acetic acid and 100 ml. of ethyl acetate was reduced with hydrogen over platinum oxide and the product, in the form of the free base, was recrystallized from ethyl acetate to give 19.05 g. 75 of A small amount of the free base was reacted with methanesulfonic acid and the product recrystallized from ethanol to give the corresponding methanesulfonate as an orange powder, m.p. 221 223 C. To a stirred suspension of 2.5 g. 0.0059 mole of 2 methyl 3 4 nitrobenzoyl 6 methoxy 1 2 4 morpholinyl ethyl 1H indole Example 1AN and 2 g. 0.036 mole of iron filings in 25 ml. of 50 aqueous ethanol in a three necked flask equipped with a reflux condenser and a stirrer was added, over a five minute period with stirring, 0.93 ml. of a solution containing 5 ml. of concentrated hydrochloric acid in 25 ml. of 50 aqueous ethanol. When addition was complete, the reaction mixture was heated under reflux for two and a half hours, then cooled and made basic with 15 alcoholic potassium hydroxide solution. The mixture was filtered, the filtrate was taken to dryness Following a procedure similar to that described in Example 4C above, 7.3 g. 0.018 mole of 2 methyl 3 4 nitrobenzoyl 1 1 methyl 2 4 morpholinyl ethyl 1H indole Example 2K , dissolved in 75 ml. of 50 ethanol, was reduced with 6 g. 0.11 mole of iron filings and 2.8 ml. of a solution containing 5.2 ml. of concentrated hydrochloric acid in 25 ml. of 50 ethanol. The product was isolated in the form of the free base to give 3.7 g. 54 of To a solution of 4.0 g. 0 01 mole of 2 methyl 3 4 aminobenzoyl 1 2 4 morpholinyl ethyl 1H indole Example 4B in 20 ml. of glacial acetic acid was added 2.3 ml. 0.023 mole of acetic anhydride and 2 drops of concentrated sulfuric acid. The mixture was warmed slightly, then poured into water and the aqueous mixture basified by addition of 10 sodium hydroxide. The gum which separated was isolated by decantation, triturated with water to produce a solid material which was collected and recrystallized from ethyl acetate to give 2.3 g. 56 of Following a procedure similar to that described in Example 5A above, the following compounds of formula I in Table 5 below were prepared by acylation of an appropriate 2 methyl 3 aminobenzoyl 1 aminoalkyl 1H indole. In each instance, R₂ is CH₃ R₄ is hydrogen Alk is CH₂ ₂ and N B is 4 morpholinyl. All compounds were isolated and characterized as the free bases. The acylating agent and the reaction solvent are given in the column headed AcX Solv. Following a procedure similar to that described in Preparation 3 above, 14.0 g. 0.03 mole of 2 methyl 3 4 benzyloxybenzoyl 1 2 4 morpholinyl ethyl 1H indole Example 1AG in 250 ml. of ethanol was reduced with hydrogen in a Parr shaker over 1.0 g. of 5 palladium on charcoal. The product was converted to the hydrochloride salt which was recrystallized from water to give 11.1 g. 92 of A mixture of 7.5 g. 0.02 mole of 2 methyl 3 4 cyanobenzoyl 1 2 4 morpholinyl ethyl 1H indole Example 1AF , 100 ml. of ethanol, 15 ml. of liquid ammonia and 2 tablespoons of a Raney nickel in ethanol suspension was heated in an autoclave at 50 C. under an initial hydrogen pressure of 320 p.s.i.g. The mixture was then cooled, the catalyst was removed by filtration, and the solution was taken to dryness A mixture of 10.4 g. 0.023 mole of 2 methyl 3 4 N trifluoroacetylamino benzoyl 1 2 4 morpholinyl ethyl 1H indole Example 5C , 20 g. 0.20 mole of potassium carbonate and 5 ml. 11.4 g., 0.08 mole of methyl iodide in 100 ml. of acetone was heated under reflux with stirring for two hours and then taken to dryness to yield a yellow foam, which was partitioned between water and chloroform and extracted twice with chloroform. The combined extracts were washed with brine, filtered and taken to dryness to give a yellow oil which was dissolved in isopropanol and treated with excess hydrogen chloride followed by additional isopropanol. The solution was diluted with ether, and the solid which separated was collected and dried to give 4.6 g. of The latter 3.7 g., 0.007 mole was mixed with 25 ml. of 10 sodium hydroxide, and the mixture was heated under reflux for one hour. On cooling, a solid separated from the mixture which was collected, dissolved in isopropanol and treated with excess hydrogen chloride and isopropanol. The solid which separated was collected and recrystallized from methanol diethyl ether to give 1.2 g. 37 of Following a procedure similar to that described in Example 8A, 22 g. 0.049 mole of 2 methyl 3 4 N trifluoroacetylamino benzoyl 1 2 4 morpholinyl ethyl 1H indole Example 5C was reacted with 35.9 g. 0.129 mole of butyl iodide in 250 ml. of acetone in the presence of 48 g. 0.343 mole of potassium carbonate and the resulting 2 methyl 3 4 N butyl N trifluoroacetylamino benzoyl 1 2 4 morpholinyl ethyl 1H indole 24 g., 98 hydrolyzed by refluxing in a solution of 500 ml. of 10 sodium hydroxide and 100 ml. of ethanol. The resulting crude product was chromatographed on silica gel, eluting with 25 acetone hexane. The higher R To a stirred suspension of 12.0 g. 0.03 mole of 2 methyl 3 4 aminobenzoyl 1 2 4 morpholinyl ethyl 1H indole Example 4B in 15 ml. of glacial acetic acid and 30 ml. of water was added a solution of 4.5 g. 0.06 mole of sodium isocyanate in 30 ml. of water. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for two hours, then diluted with water and made alkaline with 10 sodium hydroxide. The solid which separated was collected and recrystallized from DMF to give 5.9 g. 48 of To a stirred suspension of 3.77 g. 0.01 mole of 2 methyl 3 4 aminomethylbenzoyl 1 2 4 morpholinyl ethyl 1H indole Example 7 in 30 ml. of toluene was added a solution of dimethyl cyanocarbonimidodithioate in 20 ml. of toluene. The mixture was stirred for an hour and a half, and the solid which separated was collected and dried to give 4.75 g. of the corresponding 3 4 aminomethylbenzoyl N methyl cyanocarbonimidothioate . The latter 4.0 g., 0.008 mole , in 75 ml of isopropanol and 25 ml of liquid ammonia, was heated in an autoclave for one hour at 100 C. The reaction mixture was then filtered, allowed to evaporate to dryness, and the resulting pale yellow foam was recrystallized from acetonitrile to give 2.3 g. 65 of A mixture of 10 g. 0.027 mole of 2 methyl 3 4 cyanobenzoyl 1 2 4 morpholinyl ethyl 1H indole Example 1AF , 20 g. 0.19 mole of sodium hypophosphite, 50 ml. of water, 50 ml. of glacial acetic acid, 100 ml. of pyridine and two spatulas of Raney nickel was heated to about 40 C. for two and a half hours and then filtered. The filtrate was taken to dryness A mixture of 2.5 g. 0.006 mole of 2 methyl 3 4 formylbenzoyl 1 2 4 morpholinyl ethyl 1H indole Example 11 , 0.55 g. 0.0067 mole of sodium acetate and 0.51 g. 0.0073 mole of hydroxylamine hydrochloride in 24 ml. of ethanol, 5 ml. of methanol and 6 ml. of water was heated under reflux for one hour and then concentrated to dryness A mixture of 20 g. 0.053 mole of 2 methyl 3 4 methoxybenzoyl 1 2 4 morpholinyl ethyl 1H indole Example 1B and 20 g. 0.29 mole of hydroxylamine hydrochloride in 100 ml. of pyridine was heated under reflux for about twelve hours and then diluted with methylene dichloride. The organic mixture was washed five times with water, then with brine, dried over magnesium sulfate, filtered and taken to dryness Following a procedure similar to that described in Example 13A above, 44 g. 0.101 mole of 5 fluoro 3 2 fluorobenzoyl 2 methyl 1 3 4 morpholinyl propyl 1H indole Example 2BB was reacted with 70.3 g. 1.01 moles of hydroxylamine hydrochloride in 500 ml of pyridine and the product recrystallized from acetonitrile to give 15.5 g. 37 of Following a procedure similar to that described in Example 13A above, in two runs a total of 28.3 g. 0.77 mole of 3 2 fluorobenzoyl 2 methyl 1 2 4 morpholinyl ethyl 1H indole Example 12 was reacted with a total of 53.7 g. 0.77 mole of hydroxylamine hydrochloride in a total of 575 ml. of pyridine to give a total of 24.4 g. of crude product. The latter was dissolved in a solution of 54.1 g. of sodium methoxide in 500 ml. of methanol, and the solution was heated under reflux for forty eight hours and then taken to dryness A mixture of 8 g. 0.022 mole of 2 methyl 3 4 aminobenzoyl 1 2 4 morpholinyl ethyl 1H indole Example 4B and 4.28 ml. 0.033 mole of 2,5 dimethoxy tetrahydrofuran in 40 ml. of glacial acetic acid was heated under reflux for one hour and then poured into an ice water mixture. The mixture was rendered alkaline by addition of 10 sodium bicarbonate solution, and the solid which separated was collected and dissolved in methylene dichloride. The organic solution was dried over magnesium sulfate, filtered and the filtrate concentrated to dryness To each of three 14 liter fermentors containing 10 liters of soybean meal dextrose medium containing 5 g. liter of soybean meal, 5 g. liter of brewer s yeast, 5 g. liter of dipotassium hydrogen phosphate and 20 g. liter of dextrose at pH 6.4, was added 2.0 g. 0.016 mole total of 2 methyl 3 4 methoxybenzoyl 1 2 4 morpholinyl ethyl 1H indole Example 1B , and the mixtures were cultured for five days in the presence of A mixture of 38.3 g. 0.10 mole of 2 methyl 3 2 methoxybenzoyl 1 2 4 morpholinyl ethyl 1H indole Example 1U and 35.2 g. 0.31 mole of pyridine hydrochloride was heated in an oil bath at 210 C. for four hours and the mixture allowed to cool. The solidified reaction mixture was partitioned between ethyl acetate and aqueous sodium carbonate by warming on a steam bath, and the organic layer was separated, taken to dryness and subjected to high performance liquid chromatography on a silica gel column in 1 1 hexane ethyl acetate. The first 7 liters of eluate were discarded, and the next 8 liters were collected, taken to dryness and the residue recrystallized from isopropanol to give 8.33 g. 23 of Following a procedure similar to that described in Example 16A, 15.8 g. 0.035 mole of 5 fluoro 2 methyl 3 4 methoxybenzoyl 1 3 4 morpholinyl propyl 1H indole hydrochloride Example 1I was heated with 20.4 g. 0.176 mole of pyridine hydrochloride at 210 C. in an oil bath for two hours, and the product isolated as the hydrochloride salt to give 9.2 g. 67 of A mixture of 1.9 g. 0.005 mole of 2 methyl 3 4 aminomethylbenzoyl 1 2 4 morpholinyl ethyl 1H indole Example 7 , 0.7 g. 0.0025 mole of 2 methyl 2 thiopseudourea sulfate and 10 ml of water was heated on a steam bath for two hours and then filtered. The filtrate was taken to dryness, and the residue was recrystallized from methanol to give 1.0 g. 85 of Following a procedure similar to that described in Preparation 3 above, a solution of 0.9 g. 0.0019 mole of 6 benzyloxy 2 methyl 3 4 methoxybenzoyl 1 2 4 morpholinyl ethyl 1H indole Example 1BK in 200 ml. of methanol was reduced with hydrogen over three spatulas approximately 1.5 g. of 10 palladium on charcoal under a hydrogen pressure of 50 p.s.i.g. at ambient temperature in a Parr shaker. The product was isolated in the form of the hydrochloride which was recrystallized from ethyl acetatediethyl ether to give 0.35 g. of To 70 ml. of dry DMF was added, dropwise with stirring, 15 ml. of phosphorus oxychloride while cooling in an ice bath. The mixture was then treated with a solution of 24.4 g. 0.10 mole of 2 methyl 1 2 4 morpholinyl ethyl 1H indole Preparation 4A in 50 ml. of DMF while continuing to cool in an ice bath. When addition was complete, the mixture was stirred for about one hour and then poured into 50 g. of ice to give a clear solution which was chilled to about 20 C. and basified by the addition of 150 ml. of 35 potassium hydroxide. The mixture was warmed to about 70 , then chilled in an ice bath, and the solid which separated was collected, dried and recrystallized from ethyl acetate to give 23.3 g. 86 of A solution containing 13.6 g. 0.05 mole of the latter and 9.0 g. 0.06 mole of 4 methoxyacetophenone in 50 ml. of absolute ethanol was treated with 500 ml. of 3.7N ethanolic hydrogen chloride in a thin stream, while stirring, and the resulting red solution was stirred for twenty four hours. The solid which separated was collected by filtration, washed with absolute ethanol and then recrystallized first from methanol and then from 50 ethanol to give 5.3 g. 24 of Following a procedure similar to that described in Example 19 above, To a solution of 6 g. 0.107 mole of potassium hydroxide pellets in 350 ml. of absolute ethanol was added 15 g. 0.047 mole of the latter and 19 g. 0.14 mole of 2 methylbenzaldehyde. The mixture was heated under reflux for one and a half hours, concentrated to dryness and the product, in the form of the free base, recrystallized once from ethyl acetate and once from isopropanol to give 7.9 g. 41 of Following a procedure similar to that described in Example 20A above, 14.75 g. 0.0516 mole of 3 acetyl 2 methyl 1 2 4 morpholinyl ethyl 1H indole Example 20A was reacted with 2 fluorobenzaldehyde in 260 ml. of ethanol in the presence of 3.44 g. 0.061 mole of potassium hydroxide pellets and the product, in the form of the free base, recrystallized from ethyl acetate to give 10.0 g. 54 of A solution of 11 g. 0.025 mole of 1 2 3 hydroxy 1 piperidinyl ethyl 2 methyl 3 4 methoxybenzoyl 1H indole Example 3B in 50 ml. of pyridine and 25 ml. of acetic anhydride was allowed to stand at ambient temperature for about forty eight hours and the mixture then poured into ice water. The oily solid which separated was collected, dissolved in ethyl acetate and the solution washed first with dilute sodium hydroxide, then with brine, dried and taken to dryness. The residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate, the solution treated with 3.67 g. of maleic acid, the mixture heated to boiling to dissolve all solid, then cooled, and the solid which separated was collected and recrystallized once again from ethyl acetate to give 8.12 g. 59 of To a stirred solution of 12.5 g. 0.03 mole of 2 methyl 3 4 methoxybenzoyl 1 2 1 piperazinyl ethyl 1H indole Example 1L in 150 ml. of pyridine was added, with stirring while cooling in an ice bath, 7.1 g. 0.066 mole of ethyl chloroformate. When addition was complete, the solution was stirred in an ice bath for thirty minutes, then allowed to stand at ambient temperature for about eighteen hours and then poured into ice water. Extraction of the mixture with ethyl acetate afforded the crude product in the form of the free base which was dissolved in ethyl acetate and converted to the maleate salt by addition of 2.6 g. of maleic acid. The latter was recrystallized from ethyl acetate ether to give 7.6 g. 41 of A solution of 12.5 g. 0.033 mole of 2 methyl 3 4 methoxybenzoyl 1 2 1 piperazinyl ethyl 1H indole Example 1L in 150 ml. of pyridine was cooled in an ice bath and treated with 50 ml. of acetic anhydride and the solution allowed to stand at ambient temperature for about eighteen hours. The solution was then poured into ice water and the mixture extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic solution, on washing with brine, drying over sodium sulfate and evaporation to dryness, afforded the crude product which was taken into ethyl acetate and the solution treated with 4.2 g. of maleic acid. The solid which separated was collected and recrystallized from ethanol to give 7.36 g. 42 of Following a procedure similar to that described above in Example 23A, 11.9 g. 0.029 mole of 5 fluoro 2 methyl 3 4 methoxybenzoyl 1 3 1 piperazinyl propyl 1H indole Example 1BN was reacted with 50 ml. of acetic anhydride in 150 ml. of pyridine and the product isolated in the form of the methanesulfonate salt to give 6.6 g. 41 of A solution of 15 g. 0.04 mole of 2 methyl 3 4 aminobenzoyl 1 2 4 morpholinyl ethyl 1H indole Example 4B , 12 g. 0.4 mole of formaldehyde and 7.5 g. 0.119 mole of sodium cyanoborohydride in 250 ml. of acetonitrile was stirred for thirty minutes and then treated dropwise with acetic acid until acidic. The mixture was stirred for about eighteen hours, then poured into aqueous potassium hydroxide and the mixture extracted with ether. The organic extracts, on drying over magnesium sulfate and concentration to dryness, afforded a yellow solid which was recrystallized from isopropanol to give 7.5 g. 48 of A solution of 19.1 g. 0.047 mole of 1 3 bromopropyl 5 fluoro 2 methyl 3 4 methoxybenzoyl 1H indole Preparation 7D in 500 ml. of acetone and 50 ml. of water was treated with 3.05 g. 0.047 mole of sodium azide and the mixture heated under reflux for about eighteen hours and then taken to dryness The latter 0.026 mole was dissolved in 265 ml. of ethanol and 35 ml. of THF and reduced with hydrogen over 1.0 g. of 10 palladium on charcoal in a Parr shaker. When reduction was complete, in about four hours, the mixture was filtered, the filtrate taken to dryness and the residue dissolved in ethyl acetate and treated with 3.13 g. of maleic acid and heated to dissolve all the material. The solid which separated was collected and recrystallized from isopropanol to give 9.7 g. 76 of Following a procedure similar to that described in Example 25A above, 13.98 g. 0.03 mole of 2 methyl 3 4 methoxybenzoyl 1 2 tosyloxyethyl 1H indole Preparation 7A in 325 ml. of acetone and 32.5 ml. of water was reacted with 1.96 g. 0.03 mole of sodium azide and the product recrystallized from isopropanol to give 6.1 g. 61 of The latter 0.024 mole , dissolved in 250 ml. of ethanol and 50 ml. of THF, was reduced with hydrogen over 0.8 g. of 10 palladium on charcoal at 47 p.s.i.g. and the product isolated in the form of the maleate salt to give 7.6 g. 75 of A mixture of 10 g. 0.027 mole of 3 4 fluorobenzoyl 2 methyl 1 2 4 morpholinyl ethyl 1H indole, Example 1Q 2.5 g. 0.033 mole of 2 methoxyethylamine and 7.6 g. 0.054 mole of potassium carbonate in 15 ml. of DMSO was heated at 95 C under nitrogen and the mixture then poured into ice water. The solid which separated was collected, dissolved in methylene dichloride and the solution washed with brine, dried over magnesium sulfate, filtered and taken to dryness Following a procedure similar to that described in Example 26A above, reaction of a 3 4 halobenzoyl 2 methyl 1 2 4 morpholinyl ethyl 1H indole with an appropriate amine in the presence of potassium carbonate afforded the species of formula I in Table 26 where, in each instance, R₂ is CH₃ and N B is 4 morpholinyl. The species of Examples 26B 26D, 26G and 26H were obtained from the corresponding 4 fluorobenzoyl starting material, and the species of Examples 26E, 26F and 26I were obtained from the corresponding bromobenzoyl or bromonaphthyl starting materials. A mixture of 8.2 g. 0.02 mole of 1 2 4 formyl 1 piperazinyl ethyl 2 methyl 3 4 methoxybenzoyl 1H indole Example 3S and 2.06 g. 0.052 mole of sodium hydroxide in 100 ml. of ethanol and 80 ml. of water was heated under reflux for four hours, then poured into ice water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic solution was washed with brine, dried over sodium sulfate, taken to dryness and the residue dissolved in ethyl acetate. The solution was treated with an excess of a 1N solution of methanesulfonic acid, and the solid which separated was collected and recrystallized from ethanol to give 9.0 g. 79 of Following a procedure similar to that described in Example 26A above, the following species of formula I were similarly prepared To a solution containing 16.9 g. 0.044 mole of 1 3 bromopropyl 2 methyl 3 4 methoxybenzoyl 1H indole Preparation 7G in 200 ml. of DMF was added 5 g. 0.088 mole of azetidine. The mixture was stirred for about 24 hours at ambient temperature, then diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic extracts were washed with water, then with brine, dried over magnesium sulfate, filtered and taken to dryness. The residue was taken into ethyl acetate, the solution diluted with ethereal hydrogen chloride, and the solid which separated was collected and recrystallised repeatedly from isopropanol to give 2.0 g. 10 of To a solution of 15.0 g. 0.032 mole of 5 fluoro 2 methyl 3 4 methoxybenzoyl 1 3 4 thiomorpholinyl propyl 1H indole hydrochloride Example 3AF in 195 ml. of glacial acetic acid was added 8.12 g. 0.038 mole of an 80 solution of m chloroperbenzoic acid, and the solution was stirred at ambient temperature for about forty eight hours and then poured into 300 ml. of ice water. The mixture was treated with 1 g. of sodium bisulphite, basified with 35 sodium hydroxide and then extracted with chloroform. The organic extracts, on washing with water, then with brine, drying over sodium sulfate and evaporation to dryness afforded 1.9 g. of the product as the free base which was converted to the maleate salt by solution of the base in ethyl acetate and addition of one equivalent of maleic acid. The salt was recrystallized from ethanol to give 12.85 g. 72 of Following a procedure similar to that described in Example 29A above, the following species of formula I were similarly prepared A solution of 28.7 g. 0.177 mole of benzoylacetone and 23.2 ml. 0.177 mole of 2 4 morpholinyl ethylamine in 600 ml. of toluene was heated under reflux for ten and a half hours under a Dean Stark trap and the solution then cooled and taken to dryness to give N 2 4 morpholinyl ethyl N 1 methyl 3 oxo 3 phenylpropenyl amine as a yellow solid. The latter 11.3 g., 0.41 mole and 8.9 g. 0.082 mole of benzoquinone in 40 ml. of nitromethane was stirred under nitrogen for forty eight hours at room temperature and the mixture then filtered through silica gel and the filtrate adsorbed onto silica gel and flash chromatographed using 5 acetone in ethyl acetate. The product was taken off in the early and middle fractions which were taken to dryness. The product was recrystallized first from ethyl acetate and then from methanol to give 1.0 g. 7 of A solution of 13.4 g. 0.0395 mole of 5 fluoro 2 methyl 3 4 methoxybenzoyl 1 1 2,3 epoxy propyl 1H indole Preparation 9A and 4.79 g. 0.055 mole of morpholine in 60 ml. of chloroform was heated under reflux for about forty eight hours and then taken to dryness Following a procedure similar to that described in Example 31A above, reaction of a 1 1 2,3 epoxy propyl 3 R₃ carbonyl 1H indole with an amine, HN B, afforded the following compounds of formula Ib listed in Table 31, where R₂ in each instance is CH₃. Following a procedure similar to that described above in Example 25A, 60 g. 0.165 mole of 1 3 azido 2 hydroxy 1 propyl 2 methyl 3 4 methoxybenzoyl 1H indole Example 31J in 500 ml. of ethanol was reduced with hydrogen over 35 g. of palladium on barium sulfate catalyst. The product was isolated in the form of the free base and recrystallized from ethyl acetate to give 10.2 g. 18 of The hydrobromide salt of 2 methyl 3 4 methoxybenzoyl 1 2 4 morpholinyl ethyl 1H indole Example 1B 10.0 g., 0.026 mole was prepared by passing hydrogen bromide gas into a solution of the former in 200 ml. of MDC. The hydrobromide was isolated, redissolved in 300 ml. of MDC and the solution treated with 6.94 g. 0.039 mole of N bromosuccinimide. The solution was heated under reflux and irradiated with light for twenty minutes, and the solid which had separated was taken into chloroformethyl acetate and the solution extracted with aqueous potassium carbonate, dried over magnesium sulfate and taken to dryness. The residue was chromatographed on silica gel, the product being eluted with 25 acetone in toluene, which was isolated and recrystallized from toluene to give 3.7 g. 31 of Following a procedure similar to that described in Example 2A above, it is contemplated that other species of formula I as follows can be prepared by reaction of a 2 R₂ 1 2 4 morpholinyl ethyl 1H indole with an appropriate aroyl chloride R₃COCl in the presence of aluminum chloride in methylene dichloride The 3 R₃ carbonyl 1 aminoalkyl 1H indoles of formulas I, Ia and Ib of the invention were tested in the acetylcholine induced abdominal constriction test Ach , the anti bradykinin test BRDK and the rat paw flexion test P.F. , all In some instances, the compounds were retested two or more times, and ED₅₀ values were calculated for each series of repeat tests. In such instances, each of the ED₅₀ values so obtained is given in a series of values, thus 6, 28, 30, 43 in the case of the species of Example 1AW in the acetylcholine induced abdominal constriction test. The 3 R₃ carbonyl 1 aminoalkyl 1H indoles of formulas I, Ia and Ib of the invention were also tested in the developing adjuvant arthritic assay, the plasma fibronectin assay and the pleurisy macrophage assay in rats. Data so obtained, expressed as p values as a measure of the statistical significance of the results for each of the parameters measured, i.e. inhibition of inflammation of non injected paw NIP and injected paw right paw volume or RPV , lowering of plasma fibronectin levels FN and inhibition of macrophage accumulation in the pleural cavity MAC , are given in Table C. Compounds were considered active at p 0.05 levels. Non statistically significant results are recorded as . Certain species of the intermediate 2 R₂ 3 R₃ carbonyl indoles of formula II were also tested and found active in one or more of the acetycholine induced abdominal constriction test Ach , the developing adjuvant arthritic assay NIP and RPV , the fibronectin assay FN and the pleurisy macrophage assay MAC . Data so obtained, expressed as described above, are given in Table D. Certain species of the intermediate 2 R₂ 1 aminoalkyl 1H indoles of formula III were tested and found active in the acetylcholine induced abdominal constriction test. Thus 2 methyl 1 1 methyl 2 4 morpholinyl ethyl 1H indole methanesulfonate hydrate Preparation 5A produced 40 inhibition at 300 mg. kg. p.o. , and the ED₅₀ of 5 fluoro 2 methyl 1 1 methyl 2 dimethylaminoethyl 1H indole Preparation 8 was found to be 25 mg. kg. p.o. .