# NMR MULTIPLE ECHO PHASE CONTRAST BLOOD FLOW IMAGING

## Claims
Verfahren zur Magnetischen Resonanz Tomographie MRT bzw. NMR von einer Fluidströmung in einer Probe Sample , enthaltend die Schritte

## Description
The present invention relates to the imaging of liquids flowing in heterogeneous objects using nuclear magnetic resonance NMR methods and, more particularly, to in vivo blood flow imaging wherein image contrast enhancement is achieved by exploiting blood flow rate to discriminate against the stationary media surrounding the blood flow network. In particular, several embodiments of a method are disclosed for producing a plan view image of blood flow in portions of the human body by providing two dimensional phase contrast images differentiating between a substantially stationary body portion and a fluid flow velocity, or rate. NMR imaging offers significant advantages as a medical diagnostic tool, the most important of which are a the completely non invasive nature of the technology and b the ability to spatially encode the NMR signal data with a good degree of precision using field gradients. The term Zeugmatography has been coined recently to cover an increasing range of NMR techniques wherein static magnetic fields to produce the polarization of nuclei are combined with field gradients to spatially encode the volume of interest and with RF fields to spatially reorient polarized nuclei to achieve a wide range of objectives, including imaging. In the recent past, the technical and patent literature have burgeoned and have reported results of successive advances in the field. While the field has progressed steadily, certain intrinsic drawbacks have heretofore limited certain uses of NMR high resolution imaging in medicine. Chief among these are the comparatively slow nuclear spin relaxation times of human tissue, and body motion due both to inherent movements within the body and the difficulty of keeping the body stationary for long periods of time. Human tissue is known to have a spin lattice relaxation time, T₁, of approximately 0.5 seconds and a spin spin relaxation time, T₂, of approximately 0.05 seconds. Both of these time constants are very slow as compared to the speed of the instrumentation available to process NMR signals. Also, high resolution imaging requires a large number of pixel projections, each of which may be the result of a complete NMR pulse sequence, where each NMR sequence is at least influenced, if not limited, by these time constants. Therefore, real time or even near real time imaging of body tissue has been of somewhat limited resolution, or contrast, and two dimensional plan view maps of moving elements such as blood have heretofore only been discussed. High contrast two dimensional imaging of in vivo blood flow in real time has been beyond the reach of NMR technologies. Over the years, NMR has been used to measure flow, including flow rates in a variety of fluids as well as blood flow, but not in an imaging context. An early approach to using NMR in general for measuring fluid flow actually liquid flow is provided in U.S. Patent 3,191,119 to Singer. This patent discloses the measurement of flow rates basically by measuring the amount of absorption energy needed to restore a transported volume of polarized liquid at a downstream location in a conduit, to the amount of polarization which was induced in an upstream location. While the disclosure recites applicability of the scheme to blood flow, it is clear that the apparatus is not conveniently adaptable to in vivo measurement. The Singer patent is illustrative of a fair sized body of prior art using similar NMR techniques to measure liquid flow generally confined within conduits, around which instrumentation is placed. Recent patents of this genre are U.S. Patent 4,259,638 to Krueger et al. and U.S. Patent 4,110,680 to Bergmann et al. Various methods for in vivo flow encoding using pulsed gradient NMR have been proposed, but most of these methods are sensitive only to a limited range of flow velocities. An application Serial No. 490,605, entitled NMR Blood Flow Imaging , utilizing an in vivo technique for discriminating against stationary tissue, was filed on May 2, 1983, assigned to the assignee of the present application and is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference. U.S. Patents 4,431,968 and 4,443,760, even though not concerned with flow imaging, are both assigned to the assignee of the present application and are each incorporated herein in their entireties by reference, especially as to their teachings of NMR imaging systems and basic techniques. Producing blood flow images of various sorts also may be found in the patent literature, but these make extensive use of acoustic or other forms of energy. U.S. Patent 4,205,687 to White et al. discloses the production of a color coded television or CRT type display of a portion of a blood vessel obtained using a mechanically articulated transducer to cover the area of interest on the patient. This approach uses basic Doppler processing and produces a velocity color CRT image. U.S. Patent 4,182,173 to Papadofrangakis et al. and assigned to the instant assignee, also discloses a sonic Doppler technique for imaging portions of the body including blood vessels, and produces a real time measurement of flow velocity in selected regions of the patient. A B scan CRT display is provided on which cross sectional view data is presented. A method of measuring in vivo blood flow using hard radiation is described in U.S. 4,037,585 to Gildenberg. The disclosure recites the use of X or gamma ray scanning of the cranium in successive layers or slices by a narrow beam, and the subsequent digital processing of the resultant signals to build a visual presentation of the slice under examination. Additional non invasive blood flow measuring techniques are taught in U.S. Patent 3,809,070 to Doll et al., and in U.S. Patent 4,334,543 to Fehr. Despite the significant amount of effort directed toward the tasks of imaging human tissue in general, and in particular to the imaging of blood, it remains highly desirable to provide a non invasive, in vivo, real time, high contrast NMR fluid flow imaging method, and especially a method which would allow a single data set to substantially simultaneously generate conventional T₁ weighted images, T₂ images and blood flow images. In accordance with the invention, a method for magnetic resonance imaging of fluid flow, and particularly in vivo blood flow, uses multiple echo phase contrast sequences of signals both in the magnetic field gradient in the direction in which fluid flow is to be determined, and in the radio frequency RF magnetic field utilized with the magnetic field gradient to evoke an imaging response signal from the sample to be imaged. In particular, the magnetic field gradient is provided with a pair of phase encoding pulses having a zero mean value effect upon the sample, either alone or with inversion by an intermediate 180 RF pulse signal. Each echo providing excitation, in a first multi echo sequence, is provided with the phase encoding pulse pair, which may be of alternating nature if alternating echo response signals are to be evoked. The first multi echo sequence provides information which, upon processing as by FFT techniques and the like , has information of both the amplitude and phase shift of each pixel of the imaged flowing material, plus undesired phase shift of stationary material. The sample is then subjected to a second multiple echo sequence, which is devoid of the phase encoding gradient pulses, but otherwise substantially similar to the first sequence, to provide information as to the amplitude and the undesired inherent phase shift of each pixel of imaged material, both stationary and flowing. The information provided responsive to the second sequence is subtracted from the information provided responsive to the first sequence, to remove the inherent phase shift information of all of the imaged material, whereby an image is obtained having enhanced contrast values for only the flowing material. An image having an intermediate grey scale value for stationary sample material can thus be provided, responsive to sample T1 or T2 data, with differential grey scale coding for differential flow velocities of fluid passing through the image plane. In one presently preferred embodiment, the differential phase contrast information is used to provide respective increasing grey scale lighter and decreasing grey scale darker values in each pixel corresponding to fluid moving respectively parallel and anti parallel to the flow axis established by the magnetic field gradient s having the flow encoding pluses therein. Accordingly, it is an object of the present invention to provide a method as defined in Claim 1 for providing a fluid flow image utilizing multiple echo, phase contrast magnetic resonance signals. This and other objects of the present invention will become apparent upon reading of the following detailed description of the invention, when considered in conjunction with the drawings. Referring initially to Figures 1 and 1a, a sample 10, shown of cylindrical shape for simplicity, has at least one channel therein through which a liquid flows at an unknown velocity, i.e. as a vector quantity having both magnitude and direction. Illustratively, sample 10 has a pair of channels 11 and 12, in which fluid flows in opposite directions. It is desired to obtain information as to the velocity of fluid flow at the location of a particular planar slab 10a of the sample. Advantageously, the fluid flow information should be obtained in a form capable of visual presentation, for rapid interpretation. That is, the fluid volume 11a flowing in a first channel 11 passing through planar sample slab 10a is to be presented as a first gray scale region 11 Figure 1a and the fluid volume 12a flowing in the other channel 12, through planar slab 10a, is to be presented as a second gray scale image portion 12 , each having a gray scale value proportional to the magnitude V Previously, most of the NMR methods proposed for utilizing imaging pulse sequences to generate quantitative blood flow images have sought to selectively irradiate, and thus tag , protons so that the pixel brightness in the resulting NMR image is related to the velocity of the flowing protons. Such methods all, in essence, utilize the signal amplitude to measure the replacement of saturated or partially saturated protons by unsaturated protons. Although conceptually simple, these methods encounter difficulties, as there are many factors besides flow velocity that can influence the pixel brightness in a conventional NMR image. In fact, it has been noted that the signal amplitude in a flowing region is substantially linked to the particular pulse sequence utilized for imaging. An alternative method for measuring fluid flow utilizing nuclear magnetic resonance requires the monitoring of the phase of the NMR response signal, after application of pulse gradients. The pulse gradients are typically chosen such that the phase of stationary objects is not changed, while the phase of moving objects in altered in simple proportion to the velocity. This method, first proposed by Hahn in 1960 to detect the motion of seawater, has caused several attempts, in recent years, to incorporate a flow encoding pulse sequence into conventional NMR imaging sequences to produce fluid flow images. These flow encoding schemes have hitherto suffered from two problems the phase in an NMR image varies throughout the image plane for a number of reasons, so that the phase image, following a flow encoding pulse, is not related solely to the velocity of the flowing fluid and the range of flow velocities detectable with these methods, given the inherent signal to noise limitations of an NMR image, have been relatively limited. Referring to Figures 2a and 2b, in the presence of a balanced magnetic field gradient, i.e. a magnetic field gradient pulse having a zero mean over a finite time, the phase of the nuclear magnetization of the flowing fluid is shifted in proportion to both the flow velocity V and the magnetic field gradient magnitude G, in the direction of fluid flow. That is, a fluid flow in the Z direction imparts a phase shift in proportion to the G where γ is the gyromagnetic ratio for the nuclei under investigation, τ is the duration of the gradient pulse and the time dependent gradient pulse G t is applied along that axis, e.g. Z axis, along which the velocity V t , e.g. velocity V It will be seen that, for stationary nuclei, the phase shift given by the above equation ideally reduces to zero and there is thus no net phase rotation. However, the movement of fluid nuclei in the Z direction with a uniform velocity V, over the duration of the gradient pulse, causes a phase rotation given by My novel method for imaging fluid flow utilizes a multi echo, phase contrast imaging sequence with flow encoding by at least one pulsed gradient field. In broad terms, a fixed flow encoding pulse is switched on and off at each value of an imaging gradient. In the illustrative sequences to be described in detail hereinafter, the flow encoding pulse sequence is applied to one of a pair of sequential, modified spin warp imaging sequences. In the absence of the flow encoding pulse, a first convention image is formed, where the reconstruction Fourier transforms provide the spin echo data in a plurality, e.g. two or three, of dimensions to provide the complex value A₁ X,Y,Z of a pixel, at location X,Y,Z , with a spin density ρ X,Y,Z as may be modified by the appropriate relaxation time, and with a phase factor X,Y,Z which may vary throughout the imaging plane. That is, The phase term X,Y,Z can, for many reasons, be a non zero term, even in the absence of the flow encoding pulse sequence. For example, if the RF magnetic field utilized to excite the nuclear spins generates eddy currents within the sample being imaged, then the phase of the exciting RF field may vary throughout the imaged plane. Typically, only the modulus of A, i.e. A A X,Y,Z , is usually displayed to overcome the effects of phase variations throughout the imaged plane and provide an unambiguous representation of the spin density ρ X,Y,Z . However, in accordance with one principle of my present method, even during the spin warp imaging sequence which is devoid of a flow encoding pulse sequence, the entire set of complex pixel values A₁ X,Y,Z is retained. The flow encoding pulse is applied, during the one of a pair of modified spin warp imaging sequences, after the phase encoding pulse and immediately prior to the response signal read out gradient. The same flow encoding pulse pair is utilized throughout the entire flow encoded imaging sequence such that the spin echo data for a second image represents the spatial Fourier transform of the density function ρ X,Y,Z modulated in phase by the magnitude of flow within each pixel, as well as by the phase term X,Y,Z . Thus, if a flow encoding pulse of magnitude G and duration τ is applied along the Z axis, the reconstructed complex value at each pixel of the flow encoded second image is It will be seen that the use of phase contrast greatly reduces the data acquisition time for quantitative flow imaging since only one additional repetition of the entire imaging sequence is needed to obtain flow information. Thus, if a conventional imaging sequence requires 1 minute to complete, then only 2 minutes are needed to acquire all the data necessary for reconstruction of a flow velocity image along a particular axis. Similarly, a complete reconstruction of both magnitude and direction of fluid flow requires only 4 minutes, for a basic 1 minute imaging sequence. Referring now to Figures 3a 3e, the three Cartesian magnetic field gradients G At the termination of time interval c₁, the multiple echo imaging sequence itself commences. A short time interval d₁ is provided to assure that all gradients have returned to a substantially zero value. In the next time interval e₁, the first of a pair of phase encoding gradient pulses 28a and 28b is provided in the gradient magnetic field along the axis in which flow encoding is to be investigated, e.g. G Advantageously, each phase encoded X direction column of the slab is caused to provide the plurality N of successive spin echo response signals 30, to facilitate response signal averaging and increase the signal to noise ratio, as well as to provide information for T₁ and T₂ imaging. Therefore, subsequent echo preparatory time intervals d₂, d₃, d₄,... are provided before a first flow encoding pulse 28a , 28a , 28a ,... appears in associated time intervals e₂, e₃, e₄,..., followed by subsequent 180 non selective RF signal pulses 22a , 22a , 22a ,... in associated time intervals f₂, f₃, f₄,..., and the second phase encoding pulse lobes 28b , 28b , 28b ,... associated time intervals g₂, g₃, g₄,..., before the application of associated read out G In accordance with another principle of the present invention, the imaging sequence having the flow encoding pulses e.g. like polarity pulses 28a and 28b, interspersed with a 180 non selective inverting RF pulse 22a is followed by a similar imaging sequence, for the same Y direction column encoding pulse 24a amplitude, but without the flow encoding pulses 28 in the flow direction axis magnetic field gradient, e.g. G It will be understood that the entire two dimensional image, either of the fluid flow or stationary material, requires that additional flow encoded non flow encoded sequences be consecutively provided each pair of sequences one having the flow encoding pulses 28a and 28b and the other devoid of the flow encoding pulses has one of the required additional values and polarities of the G It should also be understood that the use of the flow encoding sequence of Figure 2b, i.e. having a pair of identical duration, identical amplitude and opposite polarity lobes 16a and 16b with no 180 RF pulse therebetween, can be utilized. In that case, the 180 non selective RF inverting pulse signal is provided, as shown in broken line, as signals 22c, 22c , 22c , 22c ,... in associated time intervals d₁, d₂, d₃, d₄,... and the signals 22a, 22a , 22a , 22a ,... are not utilized. This alternating of opposite polarity flow encoding pulses, following a non selective 180 RF inverting pulse, is also shown in Figures 3a and 3d . The use of alternating polarity for the opposite polarity flow encoding pulse pairs also allows solution of an additional problem inherent in the phase contrast approach. That is, the problem of the phase , or the phase difference Δ , being a periodic function uniquely defined only over the range π to π. That is, if the flow velocity in a particular pixel creates a phase advance greater than π, or a phase retardation greater than π, then the reconstruction algorithm for flow imaging will compute the wrong value for the flow velocity, as these conditions represent the classic aliasing problem for a periodic function. The aliasing problem can be overcome by using the magnitude and duration of the flow encoding pulses to satisfy the Nyquist criterion, i.e. choosing the gradient such that the maximum expected fluid flow velocity generates no more than a π radian phase shift. This maximum flow velocity must be chosen relatively conservatively to insure that all flow velocities are faithfully reproduced. Therefore, many of the velocities of interest will be less than the maximum flow velocity and will accordingly produce relatively small phase changes, which are difficult to measure due to the random phase component superimposed on the actual phase shift, by the random noise in the imaging system. It will be seen that the maximum measurable flow velocity is set by the Nyquist criterion while the minimum measurable flow velocity, as well as velocity resolution, is determined by the system signal to noise ratio. In many applications, such as measurement of flow velocity with high spatial resolution, the restrictions imposed may provide a dynamic flow velocity range which is inadequate for full use. The dynamic range and velocity resolution can be increased in flow measurements without a significant imaging time penalty, by utilizing the multi echo imaging sequence with a pair of sequential flow encoding pulses having alternating initial polarity, to allow a plurality of echoes to be summed to increase the signal to noise ratio and therefore the velocity resolution. In this case, the phase contrast image generated for each echo is given by It should be further understood that three dimensional 3 D flow images can be obtained by utilizing phase encoding on the Z axis, as shown by the variable amplitude, negative polarity rephasing lobes 20b 1 and 20b 2 for the G It should be further understood that the non selective 180 inverting RF pulses 22a, 22a , 22a , 22a ,... or 22c, 22c , 22c , 22c ,... may not contribute exactly the 180 phase shift required to invert the flowing spins, and a four part sequence, such as the chopper sequence of the aforementioned U.S. Patent 4,443,760, may be required. That is, the selective 90 RF pulses 22 and 22 may have to be phase alternated for subsequent pairs of flow encoded non flow encoded sequences and alternating sequence pairs of the imaging NMR signals may have to be subtracted to allow the desired signals, due to the 90 RF pulses, to reinforce while the undesired signals produced by the imperfect 180 pulses are cancelled. This technique basically requires that the 90 RF pulses 22 and 22 of Figure 3d be utilized respectively with flow encoding pulses 28 in a flow encoded first sequence followed by a non flow encoded second sequence devoid of pulses 28, and that the oppositely, or reverse phased, 90 RF selective pulses 22r and 22r as shown in Figure 3d be sequentially utilized respectively with a flow encoded third sequence having flow encoding pulses 28 and a subsequent non flow encoded fourth sequence devoid of flow encoding pulses 28 . Similarly, it is within the scope of the present method to utilize a four part pulse sequencing method in which a first multi echo sequence has the 90 selective pulse with a positive phase, in the presence of pulse encoding pulses 28, followed by a second multi echo sequence with the 90 selective RF pulse having a negative phase and with the flow encoding pulses 28 present, and then followed by third and fourth multi echo sequences, each devoid of flow encoding pulses 28, and respectively having the positive phased and negative phased 90 selective RF pulses, respectively. Again, the pair of multiple echo signals responsive to the oppositely phased selective RF signals for each flow encoding value would be subtracted from one another and two images would be formed for each like positioned echo of the sequence. The amplitude image and the phase contrast image for each echo position can be computed according to the formulae Referring now to Figure 4a, a photograph of the phase contrast images taken of a flow phantom, without and with a liquid flow occurring, is shown. The flow phantom consists of eight tubes of four different sizes, arranged with decreasing diameter in each column from left to right, from about 16 millimeters in diameter at the left to about 6 millimeters in diameter at the right, with each diameter tubing being provided as a pair of tubes arranged one above another in each of two rows. The tubes are connected in series and the flow through the phantom is controlled such that for each tube diameter there is forward flow in one tube and reverse flow in the other tube of that column and of the same diameter . The length of each of the eight tubes is made sufficiently long to insure nearly laminar, i.e. non turbulent, flow under substantially all conditions. Continuous flow of the liquid through the phantom is maintained with a mechanical pump. As the tubes are connected in series and non turbulent flow is present, the average flow velocity in each tube varies substantially only as the inverse of the cross sectional area of the tube. The flow phantom apparatus was positioned within the bore of a 0.15 Tesla T imaging system magnet, with the direction of flow within the phantom being either parallel or anti parallel to the direction of the main magnetic field, i.e. along the Z axis. The phantom was imaged using a two dimensional, partial saturation, multi echo, phase contrast sequence in which a pair i.e. N 2 of echoes was obtained. With the flow pump turned off, the image at the top of the Figure 4a photograph illustrates that the two echo average provide grey scale data, which was adjusted to define zero flow to correspond to a zero value and an intermediate grey level, which is substantially identical for all eight tubes of the phantom. However, as shown by the grey scale values of the eight flow phantom tubes in the lower portion of Figure 4a, when the flow pump is turned on and set for a flow rate of about 400 cm³ min., the images obtained by use of a flow encoding on flow encoding off sequence clearly shows both the grey level change with changing velocity and with changing direction. In particular, the grey scale in this bottom picture is defined such that zero flow corresponds to a value of zero and an intermediate grey level, with flow into the plane of the image being represented by a value greater than zero and a grey level brighter than the median grey, and with flow out of the plane of the image being represented by a value less than zero and a grey scale darker than the median grey. Thus, in the largest diameter tubes, in the left hand most column, the lowest fluid flow velocities are obtained, with the fluid in the top tube of the pair flowing out of the picture toward the viewer and the fluid in the bottom tube of the pair flowing into the plane of the picture away from the viewer . It will be seen that the slowest flow phantom tubes have grey scale values respectively slightly darker and slightly brighter than the flow off phantoms. In the second largest pair of tubes, in the column immediately to the left of the center of the photograph, the top tube contains fluid flowing into the plane of the image, while the bottom tube contains fluid flowing out from the plane of the image it will be seen that the brighter top tube image and darker bottom tube image have values respectively more bright, and more dark, than the respective bottom and top tubes of the largest diameter phantoms. Similarly, the third largest tubes, being the pair of tubes immediately to the right of the photograph vertical center line, have a flow into the plane of the image in the bottom tube and out from the plane of the image in the top tube the grey scale levels are substantially proportionally brighter and darker, respectively, than the into and out from grey scale levels of the larger diameter tube pairs. Finally, it will be seen that the right hand most pair of tubes, having the smallest diameter, have a flow magnitude greater than the flow magnitude of any of the other tube pairs, with the top tube having a flow into the plane of the image and the bottom tube having a flow out of the plane of the image the brighter and darker grey scale images are again substantially proportional to the flow magnitude. Figure 4c graphically illustrates the flow distribution within the tubes, where the abscissa 40 is scaled in the diameter, in millimeters, of the four tubes of about 6.2 millimeters, about 9 millimeters, about 12.8 millimeters and about 15.9 millimeters, respectively and the ordinate 42 is scaled in units of flow velocity in cm s. Curve 44 is the computed average flow velocity expected as a function of the tube diameter, assuming laminar flow for a volume flow rate of 400 cm³ min. As the tubes are connected in series, the average velocity should vary as the inverse square of the tube diameter for non turbulent flow and the standard deviations should scale proportional with the average velocity for near laminar flow. The measured mean velocity and standard deviations for both forward flow represented by circular indicators and reverse flow represented by diamond indicators clearly indicates that the measured mean velocity very closely parallels predicted results for both flow directions and that the average deviation does indeed scale with mean velocity flow as predicted. Figure 4b is another photograph illustrating the amplitude image in both the fluid flow and non fluid flow conditions, similar to those of Figure 4a. In both cases, at the top and bottom portions of the photograph of Figure 4b, the same two echo sequence, used for the images of Figure 4a, was utilized. However, in Figure 4b, the images were obtained by simply averaging the image information from both echoes, i.e. the image intensity A is given by A X,Y A₁ X,Y A₂ X,Y 2. The phase information was discarded. It will be seen that the grey scale, having been set for an intermediate zero value and grey level, is approximately the same for each of the eight tubes, whether the flow pump is off top photograph portion or the flow pump is on bottom photograph portion and the only information imaged is the presence and diameter of the flow phantom tubing. Thus, it will be seen that spin spin lattice T₂ images, as well as more conventional amplitude images, can also be generated from the flow encoded data. Referring to Figure 5, a multiple echo, phase contrast image of a healthy adult volunteer is shown. The image was obtained with a simple two dimensional, two echo sequence and is an axial slice in the abdomenal region. While the volunteer subject s right hand side is at the left hand side of this phase contrast image, it will be seen that blood flow in the inferior vena cava is correctly depicted, as a lighter grey scale area slightly to the left of center, as flowing into the plane of the image, while the blood in the abdominal aorta is correctly depicted, in the darker grey scale portion slightly to the right of the vertical midline of the picture, as flowing out of the plane of the image. This image was also obtained at 0.15 T, with a slice thickness ΔZ of about 1 centimeter and with each pixel having a dimension of 3.5 millimeter squared, with data acquisition requiring only 1.5 minutes. The grey scale information in the abdomenal aorta and inferior vena cava areas, when referenced to the stationary portion grey scale level, indicates that the average value of blood flow velocity in the vena cava is 10.5 cm s. 5.4 cm s. for a peak velocity of about 19.6 cm s. , a value well within the normal range for a healthy adult at this level of the abdomen. In contrast, the average value of the velocity in the abdominal aorta is only 8.1 cm s. 2.4 cm s. peak velocity equal to about 12.4 cm s. , a value smaller than the expected average in a healthy adult. It appears that this understatement of the aorta flow velocity is related to the pulsatile nature of flow in the major arteries. That is, during the interval of each cardiac cycle when peak flow is present in the aorta, the phase was aliased for the flow encoding pulse used in this particular experiment. The amplitude of the flow encoding pulse was chosen to produce substantial phase shifts for the average flow velocities in the vena cava and the aorta and, indeed, during the interval of low flow the phase was in fact faithfully measured by the imaging experiment. However, because the measurements were not synchronized with the cardiac cycle, the aliased measurements averaged with the non aliased measurements to result in an underestimation of the true phase change associated with aortic flow. This problem can be completely circumvented by insuring that the flow direction magnetic field gradient, e.g. the Z axis field gradient G