# Polymer composition and lubricating oil containing said composition as pour depressant.

## Abstract
Copolymers suitable as pour depressants for lubricating compositions comprises A 50 to 80 mol od acrylic ester units having the formula CHEM wherein R3 is alkyl, aralkyl, alkaryl, cycloalkyl, or aryl and R 1 is hydrogen or is selected from the same group as R 2 and B 5 to 40 mol of dicarboxylic units having the formula CHEM wherein x is R 5 NR 5 aN R 6 2 or R 7 N NR 5 aN R 6 2 Y is X or OH or O R 3 and R 4 and R 6 and R 7 are each hydrogen or selected from same group as R 2 R 5 is alkylene, aralkylene, cycloalkylene, alkarylene, or arylene and a is 1 to 20. Preferably supplemental monomer units A min can be incorporated having the same formula as units A , but wherein R 2 has at least two carbon atoms more than the corresponding group in units A .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A copolymer characterized in that it comprises A 50 to 80 mol of acrylic ester units having the formulaEMI24.1 wherein R2 is alkyl, aralkyl, alkaryl, cycloalkyl, or aryl and Rl is hydrogen or is selected from the same group as R2 and B 5 to 40 mol of dicarboxylic units having the formulaEMI24.2 wherein X is R5 NR5 aN R6 2 or R7 N NR5 aN R6 2 Y is X or OH or O R3 and R4 and R6 and R7 are each hydrogen or selected from same group as R2 R5 is alkylene, aralkylene, cycloalkylene, alkarylene, or arylene and a is 1 to 20. 2. A copolymer as claimed in Claim l, characterized in that it contains supplemental monomer units A of the same formula as units A , theR2 group of said supplemental units A containing at least two carbon atoms more than the R2 group of units A . 3 A functionalized copolymer as claimed inClaim 2, characterized in that wherein said units A are derived from laurel methacrylate and units A are derived from stearyl methacrylate. 4. A copolymer as claimed in any precedingClaim characterized in that the molecular weightMn of said copolymer is 20,000 to 200,000. 5. A method of preparing a polymer according to Claim 1 characterized in that a first monomer of the formulaEMI25.1 is copolymerized with a second monomer of the formulaEMI25.2 in the presence of free radical polymerization initiator and the resulting copolymer is reacted with an amine of the formula R7 2NR5 NR5 aN R6 2 wherein Rl, R2, R3,R4, R5, R6, R7 and a, have the meanings given inClaim 1. 6. A lubricating composition comprising i a major portion of a lubricating oil and ii a minor effective portion of an additive, characterized in that said additive is a copolymer according to any of Claims 1 to 4. 7. A lubricating composition as claimed inClaim 6, characterized in that said effective portion is 0.005 to 5 wt. L of said lubricating composition.

## Description
PuLy Lk COMPOST lION AND LUBRICATING OIL CONTAINING SAID COMPOSITION AS POUR DEPRESSANT This invention relates to lubricating oils. More particularly it relates to lubricating oils containing additives which impart improved properties. As is well known to those skilled in the art, lubricating oils are characterized by a variety of properties including viscosity, viscosity index, pour point, dispersancy, etc and as improvements are made in the design of engines, there is a constant struggle to improve the properties of lubricating oils in order to meet the ever increasing standards. It is an object of this invention to provide a novel lubricating oil system. Other objects will be apparent to those skilled in the art. In accordance with certain of its aspects, this invention is directed to a novel polymer consisting essentially of A 50 80 mole of acrylic ester units, derived from first monomer, having the formulaEMI2.1 wherein R is a hydrocarbon group selected from the group consisting of alkyl, aralkyl, alkaryl, cycloalkyl, and aryl hydrocarbon groups and R1 is hydrogen or selected from the same 2 group as R and B 5 40 mole of dicarboxylic units, derived from second monomer, having the formulaEMI2.2 5 5 6 7 5 6 wherein X is R NR a N R 2 or R N NR a N R 2 Y is X or OH or O R3 and R and R6 and R7 are hydrogen or selected from the same group as R R5 is a divalent hydrocarbon group selected from the group consisting of alkylene, aralkylene, cycloalkylene, alkarylene, and arylene and a is 1 20. The polymer composition of this invention may be prepared from a first monomer having the formula EMI3.1 2 In the above formula, R may be a hydrocarbon group selected from the group consisting of alkyl, aralkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, and alkaryl, including such radicals when 2 inertly substituted. When R is alkyl, it may typically be methyl, ethyl, n propyl, iso propyl, n butyl, i butyl, sec butyl, amyl, octyl, decyl, octadecyl, etc. When R2 is aralkyl, it may typically be benzyl, beta phenylethy1, etc.When R is cycloalkyl, it may typically be cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl, cyclooctyl, 2 methylcycloheptyl, 3 butylcyclohexyl, .3 methylcyclohexyl, etc. When R2 is aryl, it may typically be phenyl, naphthyl, etc. When R2 is alkaryl, it may typically be tolyl, xylyl, etc. R2 may be inertly substituted i.e. it may bear a non reactive substituent such as alkyl, aryl, cycloalkyl, ether, etc. Typically inertly substituted R2 groups may include 2 ethoxyethyl, carboethoxymethyl, 4 methylcyclohexyl, etc. The preferred R2 groups may be alkyl, more preferably C1 C30 alkyl, groups including eg methyl, ethyl, n propyl, i propyl, butyls, amyls, hexyls, octyls, decyls, etc. R2 may preferably be lauryl C12 . R1 may be hydrogen or selected from the group from 2 1 which R is selected. R is preferably hydrogen or methyl. Typical first monomers which may be employed in practice of the process of this invention may include the following TABLE lauryl acrylate lauryl methacrylate lauryl ethacrylate myristyl acrylate myristyl methacrylate cetyl acrylate cetyl methacrylate stearyl acrylate stearyl methacrylate methyl acrylate ethyl methacrylate methyl methacrylate, etc. Preferred as a first monomer is lauryl methacrylate. It is a feature of this invention that it is possible to use a supplemental first monomer which is selected from the same group as the first monomer is selected. Preferably the 2 supplemental first monomer may have in the R portion of the molecule derived from the alcohol at least one more and preferably at least two more carbon atoms than are possessed by the R2 group of the first monomer. The first monomer is preferably characterized by the presence of 10 16 carbon atoms in the alcohol moiety and the supplemental first monomer is preferably characterized by 12 18 carbon atoms in the alcohol moiety. It is possible in practice of the process of this invention to utilize pure monomers or commercially available monomers which contain several monomer species. In a preferred embodiment, the first monomer may be lauryl C12 methacrylate and the supplemental first monomer may be stearyl 18 methacrylate. The second monomer may be characterized as a dicarboxylic monomer preferably derived from a maleic acid anhydride nucleus, and it may be characterized by the formula EMI5.1 3 4 In the above formula, R or R may be hydrogen or a hydrocarbon group selected from the group consisting of alkyl, aralkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, and alkaryl, including such radicals 3 4 when inertly substituted. When R or R is alkyl, it may typically be methyl, ethyl, n propyl, iso propyl, n butyl, i butyl, sec butyl, amyl, octyl, decyl, octadecyl, etc. When 3 4R or R is aralkyl, it may typically be benzyl, 3 4 beta phenylethyl, etc.When R or R is cycloalkyl, it may typically be cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl, cyclooctyl, 2 methylcyclo heptyl, 3 butylcyclohexyl, 3 methylcyclohexyl, etc., When R3 or R4 is alkaryl, it may typically be tolyl, xylyl, etc. R3 or R4 may be inertly substituted i.e. it may bear a non reactive substituent such as alkyl, aryl, cycloalkyl, 3 4 ether, etc. Typically inertly substituted R or R groups may include 2 ethoxyethyl, carboethoxymethyl, 4 methycyclohexyl, etc. The preferred R3 or R4 groups may be hydrogen or lower alkyl, i.e. Cl ClO alkyl, groups including eg methyl, ethyl, n propyl, i propyl, butyls, amyls, hexyls, octyls, decyls, etc.R3 or R4 may preferably be hydrogen. Second monomers which may be employed may include the following TABLE maleic acid anhydride methyl maleic acid anhydride phenyl maleic acid anhydride ethyl maleic acid anhydride dimethyl maleic acid anhydride The preferred second monomer may be maleic acid anhydride. Copolymerization of the first monomer, the optional supplemental first monomer, and the second monomer may be effected by adding to the reaction mixture, the following molar proportions TABLEComponent Broad Preferred TypicalFirst Monomer 50 80 70 80 80SupplementalFirst Monomer 9 15 12 15 14.5Second Monomer 5 40 5 10 5.5 Polymerization may be carried out in the presence of 5 20 parts, say 9 parts of inert polymerization solvent per 100 parts of total reactants typified by hydrocarbon such as lubricating oils preferably the lubricating oil in which the polymer is to be incorporated , standard API oils typified by the well known 145 P Pale Turbine Stock, or other common polymerization solvents. Hydrocarbon solvents including typically C6 C20 liquids may be useful polymerization solvents. There may also be present 20 70, say 40 parts of diluent oil, such as SNO 7 oil or 100 E Pale Oil to achieve the final composition. Preferably polymerization is effected under inert atmosphere, typically nitrogen, preferably at atmospheric pressure and in the presence of 0.01 0.2 w , say 0.08 w , of a free radical initiator such as azobisisobutyronitrile, benzoyl peroxide etc. Also present may be 0.1 1.0 w , preferably 0.05 0.5, say 0.25 w of chain transfer agent typically laurel mercaptan. Polymerization occurs at 40 C 150 C, preferably 40 C 100 C, say about 80 C over 1 6 hours, say 3.5 hours. Reaction is monitored by refractive index and it may be considered complete when two consecutive refractive indices are identical typically about 3.5 hours. Then additional initiator, 0.005 0.02 parts, say 0.01 parts may be added together with 20 70 parts, say 40 parts of additional diluent.The reaction mixture may then be heated to 60 C 160 C, say 100 C at atmospheric pressure for 0.5 2 hours, say 1 hour followed by cooling to room temperature. The following reaction may occur R1 R3 R I w I C CH2 C C COOR2 CO CO o EMI7.1 EMI7.2 More particularly, when supplemental first monomer is present, the reaction may be EMI8.1 wherein x representing the number of moles derived from first monomer may be 340 560, say 552 and Z representing the number of moles derived from supplemental first monomer maybe 70 110, say 104 and z representing the number of moles derived from second monomer may be 20 280, say 35. In the case of one preferred embodiment, the reaction may be as follows EMI8.2 Analysis of the product indicates a molecular weight M of 20,000 200,000, preferably 40,000 100,000, say about n 80,000. Infrared analysis show carbonyl stretching frequencies of 1730 cm 1 ester and 1790 cm 1 anhydride . lunctionalization of the so prepared polymer may be effected on the product so prepared without further work up.The polymer may be reacted with amine R7 2 NR NR5 a N R6 25 In the above formula, R may be a hydrocarbon group consisting of alkylene, aralkylene, cycloalkylene, arylene, and alkarylene, including such radicals when inertly substituted.When R is alkylene, it may typically be methylene, ethylene, n propylene, iso propylene, n butylene, i butylene, sec butylene, amylene, octylene, decylene, octadecylene, etc.When R5 is aralkylene, it may typically be benzylene, 5 beta phenylethylene, etc. When R is cycloalkylene, it may typically be cyclohexylene, cycloheptylene, cyclooctylene, 2 methylcycloheptylene, 3 butylcyclohexylene, 3 methylcyclohexylene, etc. When R is arylene, it may typically be phenylene, napthylene, etc. When R5 is alkarylene, it may typically be tolylene, xylylene, etc. R5 may be inertly substituted i.e. it may bear a non reactive substituent such as alkyl, aryl, cycloalkyl, ether, 5 nitrogen etc.Typically inertly substituted R groups may include 3 chloropropylene, 2 ethoxyethyl ene, carboethoxymethylen, 4 methylcyclohexylene, p chlorophenylene, p chlorobenzylene, 3 chloro 5 methylphenylene, etc. The preferred 5R groups may be lower alkylene, i.e. C1 C10 alkylene, group including eg methylene, ethylene, n propylene, i propylene, butylene, amylene, hexylene, octylene, decylene, etc. R5 may preferably be propylene CH2 CH2 CH2. 6 In the above formula, R may be hydrogen or a hydrocarbon group selected from the group consisting of alkyl, aralkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, and alkaryl, including such radicals when ineptly substitute. When alkyl, it may typically be methyl, ethyl, n propyl, iso propyl, n butyl, i butyl, sec butyl, amyl, octyl, decyl, octadecyl, etc. When R6 is aralkyl, it may typically be benzyl, beta phenylethyl, etc. When R6 is cycloalkyl, it may typically be cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl, cyclooctyl, 2 methylcyclo heptyl, 3 butylcyclohexyl, 3 methylcyclohexyl, etc. When R6 is aryl, it may typically be phenyl, naphthyl, etc. When R6 is aryl, it 6 may typically be phenyl, naphthyl, etc. When R is alkaryl, it may typically be tolyl, xylyl, etc.R6 may be inertly substituted i.e. it may bear a non reactive substituent such as alkyl, aryl, cycloalkyl, ether, etc. Typically inertly substituted R6 groups may include 2 ethoxyethyl, carboethoxymethyl, 4 methylcyclohexyl, etc. The preferred R6 groups may be hydrogen or lower alkyl, i.e. C1 ClO alkyl, groups including eg methyl, ethyl, n propyl, i propyl, butyls, amyls, hexyls, octyls, decyls, etc. R6 may preferably be 6 hydrogen. At least one of the R groups must be hydrogen. R7 may be selected from the same groups as that from which R6 is selected. a may be 0 20, preferably 0 6, say 0. Typical of the amines which may be employed may be the following TABLE ethylenediamine diethylenetriamine triethylenetetramine tetraethylenepentamine ,3 N,N dimethylamino propylamine Preferred of the above amines is 3 N,N dimethylamino propylamine. Derivatization or functionalization may be carried out t adding the amine to the polymer preferably dissolved in inert diluent solvent as recovered from the copolymerization reaction in the reaction vessel, preferably in an inert eg nitrogen atmosphere. The amine is added in amount corresponding to 1.0 18, say about 3 moles per mole of dicarboxylic acid moieties in the polymer. The temperature is raised to 80 C 200 C, say 160 C and maintained at that level for 1 4 hours, say about 2.5 hours. Thereafter the temperature is raised to 150 C 200 C, say about 180 C for 1 8 hours, say 3 hours. At the end of this time, the reaction mixture is cooled. The reaction may be as follows showing only the reactant dicarboxylic acid moiety EMI11.1 wherein X is R5 NR5 aN R6 2 or R7 N MR a N R6 2 and Y is OH or X or O In a typical embodiment, the reactioIL r t bfj EMI12.1 Analysis of the product so prepared shows loss of anhydride carbonyl stretch at 1790 cm 1 ester carbonyl stretching at 1730 cm 1 is retained. The product so prepared is typically a solution containing 25 80 w , say 50 w of functionalized copolymer in inert diluent solvent. In preferred operation, it may be employed as so prepared with no further work up. For convenience of handling if desired it may be diluted to a concentration of 10 50 w , say 20 w by addition of additional diluent solvent which may be the same as that employed in the reaction or it may be a lubricating oil cut such as that in which the product may be formulated. It is a feature of this invention that the polymer product so prepared may be added in minor effective portion to a major portion of a lubricating oil and the lubricating compositions so prepared may be found to possess superior properties. The lubricating oils which may be treated by the process of this invention may include oils intended for use in automotive, railroad, marine, aircraft, etc spark ignition or compression ignition winter or summer heavy duty or light duty etc. The oil may be a hydrocarbon, ester, or silicone, etc. composition. A typical lubricating oil in which the polymer of this invention may be present nay be a standard SAE 5W 30 hydrocarbon motor oil having the following characteristics TABLE Solvent Neutral Oil 100 sus SO Kin. Visc. 40 C cSt 20 100 C cSt 4D Pour Point F O to 10 C l8 to 12 Viscosity Index Improver 11 ethylene prÏpylene copolymer Standard Additive Package 9 Polyisobutyenyl M 1290 succinimide n dispersant and anti wear calcium sulfonate detergent Zinc dithiophosphate anti wear di nonyl diphenyl amine anti oxidant RTI ID 13.13 4,4 methylene bis t2,6 dit butyl phenol anti wear poly ethyoxyphenol It is a feature of this invention that the novel polymer may serve as a multifunctional lube oil additive. When it is to be used as a dispersant supplement, it may be present in effective amount of 2 10 w , say about 4.85 w . When it is to be used as a viscosity index improver, it may be present in effective amount of 2 10 w , say about 5 w . When it is to be used as a pour point depressant, it may be present in amount of 0.005 2 w , say about 0.5 w . When it is intended tr thc additive polymer serve to provide all of these functions, in whole or in part, the effective amount may be 0.005 5 wE, say about 0.7 wt based on total lubricating composition. The ability of this polymer to serve as a dispersant additive may be measured by the Bench VC Test, in which the turbidity of an oil is measured after addition of synthetic blow by. When compared to the standards Good, Fair, and Poor of the Bench VC Test, lubricating oils containing the additives of this invention consistently show high performance characteristics to a degree surpassing control formulations. The ability of this polymer to serve as a viscosity index improver may be measured by ASTM Test D 445. When so tested, the formulations of this invention consistently show improved performance when compared to e.g. underivatized maleic anhydride methacrylate terpolymer. It is also found that lubricating compositions containing the product of this invention are characterized by satisfactory i.e. lowered Pour Point when tested by ASTM TestD 97 79. More importantly these formulations, when tested by the Ford Max Pour Point Test as set forth at Ford Motor Co.Quality Laboratory and Chemical Engineering Physical TestMethods Required by Ford Engineering Specification ESEM 2C 35 F to 39 F , show an unexpected ability to maintain or even to improve the pour point during the course of this extended test to a degree not observed with prior art formulations. It is also found that the Borderline PumpingTemperature PPT C when determined by ASTM D 3829 is equal to or better than comparable prior art lubricating oil compositions. DESCRIPTION OF SPECIFIC EMBODIMENTS Practice of the process of this invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the following wherein, as elsewhere in this specification, all parts are parts by weight unless otherwise noted. EXAMPLE IComponent Grams Moles Maleic acid anhydride 4.95 0.51 Lauryl methacrylate 204.05 0.739 Alfol 1620 brand of stearyl methacrylate 43.75 0.134 Lauryl mercaptan 0.25 0.124 chain transfer agent 145 P Pale Turbine Stock HF solvent 45.55 Azobisisobutyronitrile AIBN First 0.40 0.0014 Second 0.09 0.0003 1OOE Pale Oil 199.3 The first five components were added to a reaction vessel which was then blanketed with nitrogen and heated to 83 C. The sixth component 0.40 grams was added and heating was continued until two consecutive identical refractive indices were obtained 3.5 hours . There were then added O.O9g of azobisisobutyronitrile and 199.30g of 100E Pale Oil.The temperature was raised to 1000C and maintained for one hour the reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature. Analysis of the terpolymer product show M of 81,000 n and Mw of 183,000. Infrared analysis showed carbonyl stretching frequency of 1730 and 1790 cm 1 which are characteristic respectively of the ester and the anhydride. This corresponds to a product polymerEMI16.1 EXAMPLE II The product of Example I 400g of polymer in 145 PPale Turbine Stock and 100 E Pale Oil was added to a reaction vessel. After blanketing with nitrogen, there was added 3 N,N dimethylamino propylamine 15.3g, 0.15 moles . The temperature was then raised to 1600C and maintained at that level for 2.5 hours. One ml. of water was collected. The temperature was raised to 1800C for 3 hours no further liquid was collected. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature. Analysis showed loss of anhydride carbonyl stretch at 1790 cm l but ester carbonyl stretching at 1730 cm 1 was retained. This corresponds to a product polymerEMI17.1 EXAMPLE III The base blend used in this example had the following composition TABLE Component SNO 7 oil 75.25 SNO 20 oil 21 74 Zinc dithiophosphate anti wear 1.12 Naugalube 438 brand of 4,4 di nonyl di phenyl amine antioxidant 0.39 Surchem 521 brand of magnesium sulfonate detergent 1.50 Silicone polymer anti foamant 150 ppm This base blend had the follow ng properties TABLE Property Value Kinematic Viscosity cSt 400C 31.50 1000C 5.36 Pour Point 0F C 5 l5 Ash Sulfated by ASTM D 874 0.93 Phosphorus X ray 0.11 Sulfur X ray total 0.40 Zinc X ray 0.12 Magnesium 8 0.33 Cold Cranking Simulator cP µ 18 C 1660 The product of Example II 4.85 w polymer was blended into the above Base blend and evaluated in the Bench VCTest BVCT for dispersancy.The result 24.2 Rating as compared to the BVCT standards best 15.9, fair 47.6, worst 64.9 indicated that the composition of Example Il is thigh performance dispersant. Underivatized maleic anhydride methacrylate polymer gives an unsatisfactory BVCT of 99 EXAMPLE IV V VI In this series of Examples, the pour point depressant ability of the product of this invention was measured by i the Cold Cranking Simulator Test ii Pour Point 0F C by ASTM D 97 79 oil Ford Max Pour Point F C by BJ20 l Ford Motor Cc. Quality Laboratory and Chemical Engineering Physical TestMethods. iv Mini Rotary Viscometer Test MRV by ASTM D 3829. In each Example, the Base oil is a standard Peenzoil Rouseville 100 N a SF CC 5W 30 motor oil containing a fully formulated commercial additive package, having the following properties TABLE Property Value Kin. Visc. cSt 40 C 20.3 100 C 4.14 Pour Point F C 5 15 In experimental Example IV, the formulation contained 79.24 parts of Base Oil and 0.50 parts of the product ofExample II 8.76 parts of the Standard Additive Package infra and 11.5 parts of ethylene propylene copolymer VI improver. In control Example V , the formulation contained 79.44 parts of Base Oil, 11.5 parts of ethylene propylene viscosity index improver O.30 parts of a col l nercial poly alkyl methacrylate pour point depressant , and 8.76 parts of a standard additive package containing Component W t Polyisobutenyl M 1290 succinimide n dispersant 4.4 Calcium suffocate detergent 1.66 Polyethoxy phenol 0.05 Zinc dithiophosphate 1.15 4,4 methylene bis 2 ,6 di t butyl phenol anti oxidant 0.25 Dinonyiphenyl amine 0.25 Derivatized alkenyl succinic anhydride 1.0 Silicone antifoamant 150 ppm In control Example VI , the formulation contained 79.34 parts of Base Oil and 0.40 parts of Acryloid AC 156 Rohm and Haas brand of poly alkyl methacrylate 70 30 Lauryl Stearyl methacrylate M 46,000 , 11.5 parts of ethylene n propylene copolymer VI improver and 8.76 parts of Standard Additive package. The polymer content of each formulation was 0.25 w . The results of the tests are as follows TABLE ExampleTest IV V VI LimitsKinematic Viscosity cSt 40 C 67.3 67.2 64.7 100 C 11.45 11.52 11.55 9.3 12.5Cold Cranking Simulator cp 25 C 3350 3450 3350 3500 MaxPour Point F 30 35 35 30 Max C 34.5 37 37 34.5 Max Ford Max Pour F 35 20 25 30 Max C 37 29 31.5 34.5 Max Mini Rotary ViscometerBorderline Pumping Temp. C 30.5 29.5 30.5 30 MaxViscosity Pas 35 C 101.2 92.3 87.3 30 C 26.6 39.1 28.3 30 Max 25 C 9.6 3.5 6.0Yield Stress Pa 35 C 35 175 140 30 C 0 0 0 105 Max RTI ID 21.12 25 C 0 0 0 From the above table, the following conclusions may be noted i the additive of Example II meets all the test specifications. ii it is particularly characterized by a significantly better rating of 35 F 37 C on the Ford Max PourTest. it2 it is highly rated by the Borderline PumpingTemperature BPT Test and in terms of the Viscosity and YieldStress and it is particularly characterized by a lower BPT. Results comparable to those of Example IV may be obtained if the first monomer of Example I is as follows TABLEExample First MonomerVII lauryl methacrylateVIII isodecyl methacrylateIX butyl methacrylateX stearyl methacrylateXI methyl methacrylate Results comparable to those of Example IV may be obtained of the second monomer is as follows TABLEExample Second MonomerXII itaconic anhydrideXIII methyl maleic anhydrideXIV maleic acid XV polyisobutyenyl 1290 succinic anhydrideXVI ethyl maleic anhydride Results comparable to those of Example IV may be obtained if the amine is TABLEExample AmineXVII N 3 aminopropyl morpholine XVI II 1 amino pyridine XTX N 3 amino propyl pyridine 2 oxide EXAMPLE XX In this control Example, the product polymer ofExample I of USP 4,359,325 issued 16 November 1982 toInstitute Francais du Petrole as assignee of F. Dawans et al was subjected to a series of tests comparable to those run inExample IV with the product of Example II of this invention.The control product of that patent is an underivatized terpolymer formed from stearyl methacrylate, diisobutylene, and maleic anhydride Mn of 10,200 . The ASTM D 97 79 Pour Point of Example XX in a test oil containing 0.5w polymer was 35 C. The Pour Point of the product of Example II in the same oil containing only 0.24we polymer was 35 C. In other tests, the product of Example II satisfactorily showed i Ford Max Pour of 37 C ii MRV, BPT C ASTM D 3829 of 30.5 and iii BVCT Dispersancy of 24.2 15.9 47.6 64.9 From the above, it is apparent that the product of the instant invention is superior to the product of the reference in that the desired pour point was achieved inExample II using only half as much additive. The other data for the product of Example II show that the product is a good candidate.