# Methods for producing proteins and transformed cells, and DNA constructs for correcting host cell deficiencies and their preparation and use

## Claims
Verfahren zum Herstellen eines fremden Proteinproduktes in einer eukaryotischenWirtszelle, umfassend die Schritte

## Description
The use of microorganisms for the production of useful polypeptide products through recombinant DNAtechnology is becoming established as an industry. Foreign genetic material may be introduced into aculture of microorganisms, and, given the proper intracellular and extracellular conditions, the desiredprotein product s may be synthesized from the foreign gene s . Such genetic material is commonlyintroduced into microorganisms in the form of plasmids, which are autonomously replicating extrachromosomalelements. In order to ensure the maintenance of plasmids within a culture of transformed cells,it has been necessary to grow those cells under special conditions. In the absence of such conditions, theplasmids, which may be inherently unstable, will not be maintained, and the cell population will revert to theuntransformed state. Increased plasmid stability and copy number are important to the biotechnology industry as a means ofmaintaining the production of plasmid encoded proteins at a consistently high level. Previously reportedattempts to increase plasmid stability do not appear to be optimal for commercial application. Theintroduction of yeast centromeres into Plasmids typically contain gene sequences, known as selectable markers, which encode antibioticresistance or complement nutritional requirements of the host cell. To select for the presence of suchplasmids, transformed cells must thus be grown in special media which contain a selective drug or whichare depleted for specific nutrients. These media requirements may be both expensive and prohibitive ofoptimal cell growth rates during the large scale fermentation process. Many of such plasmids have beenreported in the literature. Those comprising antibiotic drug resistance genes include pBR322 Bolivar, As used herein the term DNA construct means any DNA molecule which has been modified by manin a manner such that the nucleotide sequences in the molecule are not identical to a sequence which isproduced naturally. The term DNA construct also includes clones of DNA molecules which have been somodified. The term expression vector is defined as a DNA construct which includes an autonomous siteof replication, a site of transcription initiation and at least one structural gene coding for a protein which is tobe expressed in the host organism. The expression vector will usually also contain appropriate controlregions such as a promoter and terminator which control the expression of the protein in the host organism.Expression vectors according to the present invention will also contain a selection marker comprising an essential gene as described herein. The term plasmid will have its commonly accepted meaning, In the accompanying drawings The present invention is based in part upon the discovery that essential genes may be used asselectable markers on DNA constructs such as plasmids. An essential gene is defined as any gene thatcodes for a function necessary for cell viability or normal growth on complex media. Complex media arethose media in which the nutrients are derived from products whose composition is not well defined, suchas crude cell extracts, meat extracts, fruit juice, serum, protein hydrolysates, etc. Hence, to select for adesired transformant according to the present invention, the selection growth medium will be merely aconventional complex growth medium, not a special medium containing a relatively expensive antibiotic,metal antagonist, or other agent lethal to the untransformed host cell, or lacking one or more specificnutrients required by the untransformed host. Essential genes include, but are not limited to, genes requiredfor cell division, membrane biosynthesis, cell wall biosynthesis, organelle biosynthesis, protein synthesis,carbon source utilization, RNA transcription, and DNA replication. In order to use an essential gene as a selectable marker on a DNA construct, such as a plasmid, it isnecessary to provide an appropriate mutant host cell strain. Using the one step gene disruption method ofRothstein Essential genes often exist in multiple copies such as histone or ribosomal RNA genes and or inmultiple, related forms called gene families such as different hexokinase genes, or different DNApolymerase genes . In such cases, these redundant functions may be sequentially mutated to make a hostcell which is multiply deficient for a given essential function. However, by using a high copy numberplasmid to increase the activity of the gene, a single essential gene on a plasmid may complement multiplehost cell deficiencies. A high copy number plasmid is desirable because an increase in copy number of acloned foreign gene may result in an increase in the production of the protein product encoded by saidgene. The selection for transformants containing high copy numbers of plasmids with essential genes may beaccomplished by reducing the expression levels of each plasmid borne essential gene and or by reducingthe activities of the gene products encoded by the plasmid borne selectable marker. One approach is tomutate the essential genes such that the transcription and or translation rates of the genes are reduced orthe gene products are altered to have lower specific activities. Another method for decreasing theexpression levels of essential genes used as selectable markers is to use a gene from another organism tocomplement defects in the host cell. Such foreign genes may be naturally defective for expression in a hostcell because the signals for transcription and or translation may be suboptimal in a different species or the gene product may have decreased activity because it is in a foreign cellular milieu. A broad range of functions necessary for cell viability or normal growth on complex media exists. Adefect or deletion in an essential gene may result in lethality, a decrease in the rate of cell division,cessation of cell division, termination of DNA, RNA, or protein synthesis, termination of membranesynthesis, termination of cell wall synthesis, termination of organelle synthesis, defects in sugar metabolism,etc. Examples of essential genes include the One preferred class of essential gene deficient host cells contains defects in Pringle and Hartwell A second preferred class of essential genes are those encoding products involved in the glycolyticpathway, including genes coding for metabolic enzymes and for regulatory functions. Examples of glycolyticpathway genes in A particularly preferred glycolytic gene is The While in the usual case the essential gene which is utilized in the DNA construct plasmid will be awild type gene from the host species, in some cases it will be preferable to use an essential gene which isforeign to the host cell because the foreign gene may be naturally defective, and thereby selectable to highplasmid copy number. As an example of such a foreign essential gene being used, one of the examplesherein shows that the The DNA constructs according to the present invention containing essential genes as selectablemarkers will be transformed into mutant host cells which are defective in the function of the essential gene.Properly mutated host cells must either be prepared or, may be readily available from a public depository.Mutation of the wild type cell to obtain a proper mutant may be accomplished according to conventionalprocedures. For example, wild type cells may be treated with conventional mutagenizing agents such asethane methyl sulfonate and transformed with a plasmid containing an essential gene to identify thecolonies where complementation occurs. Alternatively, the genome may be disrupted to create a specificmutation Rothstein, ibid . The stability of the plasmid containing the essential gene in the host cell may be dependent on theabsence of homologous essential gene sequences in the host cell. The genetic defects in the host ensurethat the plasmid will be maintained since growth of the host cell will not occur or will be severely limited bythe lack of the essential gene function. Additionally, the integrity of the plasmid itself may be dependentupon the absence of homology between the plasmid borne essential gene and the corresponding locus inthe host genome, because recombination between respective plasmid and genomic loci may cure the cellof both the mutation and the plasmid. Thus, it is preferred that mutation in the host cell genome whichinactivates the genomic essential gene be of a substantial nature, The plasmids of the present invention are unexpectedly stable when maintained in the appropriatemutant host cells. A preferred host cell is yeast however, other eukaryotic cells may be utilized . In the case of yeast cells, the stability of the plasmids according to the present inventionappears to exceed even that of yeast plasmids containing centromeres. Circular centromere plasmids areamong the most stable plasmids previously reported for yeast, but suffer from an extremely low copynumber Clarke and Carbon, The Data obtained from experiments using plasmids described herein show that human alpha 1 antitrypsin AT production is doubled by the use of the Data obtained for expression of the simian sarcoma virus v sis gene show an approximately 5 fold to 8 foldincrease in expression levels using The techniques used to produce the DNA constructs, After preparation of the DNA construct it will be transformed into the host organism under transformingconditions. Techniques for transforming eukaryotes including tissue culture cells areknown in the literature. As described above the host organism must be deficient in the essential function for selection of the essential gene on a plasmid. Mutant host strains are available from conventional depositories or may bemade by conventional means from wild types by mutagenesis and screening for the mutant carrying theproper mutation. The transformed host may then be selected by growth on conventional complex medium. In the case ofyeast, a conventional medium such as YEPD 1 yeast extract, 2 bactopeptone, and 2 dextrose maybe used. The selectable markers comprising essential genes according to the present invention may beused as markers wherever appropriate in any DNA construction and thus it will be recognized thatconstructs containing the essential gene selection markers according to the present invention have manyuses. The following examples are offered by way of illustration of such use, not by way of limitation. Unless otherwise indicated, standard molecular biology methods were used. Enzymes were obtainedfrom Bethesda Research Laboratories, New England BioLabs, and Boehringer Mannheim Biochemicals, andwere used as directed by the manufacturer or as described by Maniatis, A yeast genomic library was constructed by partial digestion of yeast DNA with Sau3A, size selectionon sucrose gradients, and insertion of the selected fragments into the yeast vector YRp7 which had beendigested with BamHI Nasmyth and Reed, Referring to FIG. 1 the Plasmid pJY70 was cleaved with EcoRI to remove the yeast The 1.9 kb yeast sequence was purified from pJY71 as a BamHI HindIII fragment. This fragment wasjoined to pBR322 which had been linearized by digestion with BamHI and HindIII, to produce the plasmidpB4, and is illustrated in Figure 1. The To construct the final The stability, in a transformed host, of the A method for a one step disruption of a host genome is described by Rothstein A preferred plasmid for disruption of the host To construct plasmid pB15L, a 6.4 kb fragment comprising the Plasmid pB15L comprises only about 50 base pairs of the 5 end of the To simultaneously delete the genomic In a typical co transformation experiment, 10ml of a culture of Six co transformed colonies were analyzed to verify the disruption of the The six co transformants were tested for plasmid stability by growing on complex medium YEPD .Cells were plated on YEPD at 25 , and replica plated onto YEPD at 37 , tryptophanless medium, andleucineless medium. Results summarized in Table 1 indicate that all Co transformants except 3 were100 stable for the plasmid markers on complex media. Isolate number 3 is the same co transformantrepresented in lane e of Figure 4 . Further stability tests were performed on two co transformants, numbers 1 and 2. Testing wasperformed on 663 and 681 colonies respectively. After growth for 30 generations on YEPD at 30 , allcolonies were prototrophic for tryptophan and leucine. Co transformant 1 was tested for growth rate at 22 and was found to grow at the same rate as anuntransformed A2.7.c control. Co transformant 1 has been designated BELL1. It has been deposited with ATCC under accessionnumber 20698. The The A plasmid comprising the A restriction map of this plasmid, pPOT, is depicted in Figure 6. Because pPOT contains the vectorYEp13, it is inherently unstable, since it lacks replication functions necessary for the maintenance of 2 micronplasmids in yeast. Therefore, the The The pUCPOT plasmid was cut with Sall and religated to delete about 1,800 base pairs of The The pFAT5 was cut with Bg1I and BamHI to liberate a fragment 2,200 base pairs that contains the AT geneand the The vector pFPOT was cut at the unique BamHI site to allow for the insertion of the 2,200 base pair ATgene and The At approximately 1800 in the 5 flanking region of The plasmid pUCTPI was then cut with BglII and the two DNA fragments were separated byelectrophoresis. The larger fragment was purified and phosphatased to prevent self ligation. Into the BglIIsites of this DNA was ligated the yeast The plasmid pUCTPI LEU2 was cut with PstI and BamHI to linearize the DNA. The yeast sequenceswere then isolated from the pUC13 sequences by electrophoresis and gel purification. The yeast DNAportion depicted in Figure 8 was used to transform Δtpi 29 may be crossed to other yeast strains to form diploids that are heterozygous for the tpi The plasmids pFPOT and pFATPOT were transformed into Δtpi 29 and related tpi Strain E18 transformed with pFATPOT was designated ZYM 3. It has been deposited with ATCC underaccession number 20699. To test the use of the AT produced by pFATPOT Δtpi 29 represented 4 6 of total soluble protein. AT produced bypFAT5 E2 7B represented 2 3 of total soluble protein. Although plasmid copy numbers are difficult to accurately measure and represent a population average,empirical observations of gene product quantities provide an indication of relative plasmid levels, given thatthe expression unit promoter, gene of interest, terminator remains the same. pFATPOT therefore appearsto be functionally greater in number than pFAT5, from which it was derived. Because the two transformedstrains are nearly identical genetically Δtpi 29 being derived from E2 7B by plasmid directed mutagenesis and were grown under the same conditions, these results are indicative of the value of the herein describedstable plasmid expression system over previously described vectors. A second stable expression vector comprising the The 2µ sequences were obtained from the plasmids YEp13 Broach To construct the final expression vector pMPOT2, pICPOT was linearized by a partial Hind III digestionand complete Sst I digestion. Plasmid pUCREP2,3 was cut with Hind III and Sst I, and the fragmentcomrising The v sis gene of simian sarcoma virus SSV encodes a protein designated p28 The SSV retroviral genome was cloned from SSV 11 nonproductively infected normal rat kidney cellswhich had SSV integrated into the genome Devare The v sis sequences were then joined to a portion of the yeast mating pheromone alpha factor A second One half pmole of m11VSα was annealed with 1 pmole of kinased oligonucleotide ZC13O For expression in yeast, the VSα and VS2α expression units comprising the Plasmid p270 was digested with Xba I and treated with calf alkaline phosphatase to prevent religation ofthe cohesive vector ends. v sis expression units VSα and VS2α were prepared by Xba I digestion andagarose gel purification of pVSα and m11VS2α replicative form , respectively. Each of the isolatedfragments was ligated with an approximately equimolar amount of the phosphatased p270 vector in thepresence of 40 units T The VSα and VS2α sequences were then inserted into the stable vectors pCPOT and pMPOT2 and theyeast Plasmid pM220 was digested with Bgl II and Bam HI, electrophoresed through a 0.9 agarose gel, andthe 2.2 kb Approximately equimolar amounts of the three isolated fragments were ligated overnight at 12 C andthe ligation mixture used to transform Plasmid YEpVS2α was digested with Pst I and Bam HI and the 1.8 kb fragment comprising the partial Plasmid pM220 was digested with Bg1 II and Pst I, and the ca. 1 kb fragment comprising the Approximately 10 µg of plasmid pVSα were digested with Bst EII to completion in a volume of 20 µl.Five units of Pst I were added, the mixture was incubated 30 minutes and the reaction stopped by theaddition of EDTA. The quenched reaction mixture was immediately electrophoresed through a 1 agarosegel, and the ca. 800 bp partial Pst I Bst EII band comprising most of the Plasmid pTVS2αT was digested to completion with Pst I and Bst EII and purified by agarose gelelectrophoresis. The resulting ca. 4.8 kb fragment and the 800 bp Pst I Bst EII fragment from pVSα wereligated in the presence of T Plasmid pTVSα was digested to completion with Cla I and Bam HI, and the ca. 2.9 kb fragmentcontaining the VSα sequences was isolated by electrophoresis through agarose, extraction from the gel, andEtOH precipitation. The ca. 2.9 kb Cla I Bam HI VSα fragment was ligated with Cla I and Bam HI digestedpMPOT2. The resultant vector was designated as pVSαm. Plasmid pTVS2αT was digested to completion with Cla I and Bam HI in Bam HI buffer. The buffer wasadjusted to high salt Maniatis C1 I was constructed from plasmid, pJDB248 Beggs, J., The gene coding for the predominant form of human alpha 1 antitrypsin AT was isolated from ahuman liver cDNA library by conventional procedures using the baboon sequence Kurachi et al., The TPI terminator was purified from plasmid pFG1 Alber and Kawasaki, ibid as a Xbal EcoRlfragment of approximately 700 bp and inserted into pUCα1 which had been cleaved with Xbal and EcoRI.This construct was then cut with EcoRI, and oligonucleotide linkers sequence AATTCATGGAG GTACCTC CTAG were added, in multiple linked copies, to provide a BamHI site to the 3 end of the TPI terminator.The resultant plasmid is known as BAT5. The TPI promoter fragment was obtained from plasmid pTPIC10 Alber and Kawasaki, ibid . Thisplasmid was cut at the unique Kpnl site, the TPI coding region was removed with Ba131 exonuclease, andan EcoRI linker sequence GGAATTCC was added to the 3 end of the promoter. Digestion with BglII andEcoRI yielded a TPI promoter fragment having BglII and EcoRI sticky ends. This fragment was then joinedto plasmid YRp7 Stinchcomb, To construct plasmid pFAT5, plasmid C1 l was linearized with BamHI, and was joined to the 900 bp TPIpromoter fragment from TEA32. The resulting construct, known as plasmid F, has a unique BamHI sitelocated at the 3 end of the TPI promoter. This plasmid was cut with BamHI and a 2200 bp BamHIfragment, comprising the AT coding sequence and TPI terminator, was purified from BAT5 and inserted intothe BamHI site. The resulting plasmid, known as pFAT5, is illustrated in Figure 7. As a control, 10 microliters 1 microgram of a solution of 100 micrograms ml trypsin, 100 micrograms 100 microliters of bovine serum albumin and 100 microliters of 0.05 molar TRIS, pH 8.0 buffer containing1mM benzoylargininoyl p nitroanilide were mixed, and the increase in absorbance at 405 nm was measuredover time in a spectrophotometer. The absorbance value of this solution was used as a standard for 100 trypsin activity. All assayed samples contain equal concentrations of substrate and bovine serum albumin. The expression of PDGF like molecules by the yeast transformants was examined by ELISA andquantitated by comparison to a standard curve developed with purified human PDGF Raines and Ross, Yeast culture media samples were diluted in PBS, assayed as described and compared to the PDGFstandard curve. Table 3 is a summary of assay results for a representative series of experiments.