# GAS CONDITIONING FOR AN ELECTROSTATIC PRECIPITATOR

## Claims
Vorrichtung zum Behandeln von Abgasen mit einem elektrostatischen Abscheider 64 und Mitteln zur Produktion eines SO₃ Konditionierungs Mediums zum Einspritzen in die Gase oberhalb des Abscheiders, wobei die Produktionsmittel die Merkmale umfassen

## Description
The present invention relates to gas conditioning for an electrostatic precipitator and in particular to on site equipment for converting sulfur into sulfur trioxide and to a method for controlling said equipment. Known electrostatic precipitators work most efficiently when the gas being treated has an appropriate resistivity. It is known e.g. from A. C. Stern Air Pollution , Third Edition, Volume IV, published by Academy Press, 1977, Pages 169 231 to alter the resistivity of the gas being treated by injecting sulfur trioxide SO₃ . A disadvantage with this procedure is the difficulty in handling SO₃, a highly corrosive substance. For this reason, known practical gas conditioning devices have often produced the SO₃ on site by means of a sulfur burner and catalytic converter. An important consideration in producing sulfur trioxide is maintaining the proper temperatures and mass flow rates in the process to enhance efficiency. For example, the production rate of SO₃ should be adjusted to correspond to the nature and volume of the exhaust gas to be treated. It is important to maintain the SO₃ at a sufficiently high temperature to avoid condensation and formation of H₂SO₄. Known sulfur trioxide producing systems have used the temperature of gas entering a catalytic converter as a controlling variable that regulates the temperature of air entering a sulfur burner. A disadvantage with that type of control is an inability to control the temperature of gas leaving the catalytic converter, it being important to keep that temperature within a satisfactory range for the reasons given above. Those systems did not regulate in accordance with the temperature of the air mass entering the sulfur burner. It is important to regulate from this temperature to maintain efficient and safe operation. Also, those systems failed to feed back important information about the operating parameters of the electrostatic precipitator and or the exhaust gas associated therewith. For example, the flow rate of gas through an electrostatic precipitator can be an important variable which ought to be used to influence the production of SO₃. EP A 0062930 which has an English language equivalent AU B 548242 discloses an SO₃ producing system in which air and sulfur are fed to a burner and combined to form SO₂ and the latter is then converted to SO₃. The air input to the burner is preheated, the heating rate being controlled directly in dependence on the sulfur supply rate, the latter in turn being controlled in dependence on the measured dust content of the gas leaving the precipitator and or the gas throughput thereof. It is now found, however, that to obtain optimum performance of the precipitator it is necessary to control the supply of SO₃ conditioning medium thereto in relation to the power dissipation in the precipitator. Accordingly, in one aspect the invention provides apparatus for treating exhaust gases including an electrostatic precipitator and means for the production of a SO₃ conditioning medium for injection into said gases upstream of the precipitator, said production means comprising a sulfur bearing source, a source of air, a combining means having an output, inputs and a throughput, the inputs communicating with said sulfur bearing source and said source of air, and said output providing a supply of gaseous, oxidized sulfur, converter means having an outlet and an inlet communicating with the output of the said combining means for converting said gaseous, oxidized sulfur into the SO₃ conditioning medium, sensing means for providing a converter temperature signal signifying either the temperature of air entering said combining means or the temperature at said outlet of said converter means, modulation means connected to said combining means and said sensing means for varying the energy flow rate associated with the airflow from said source of air into said combining means in relation to said converter temperature signal, injection means connected to said outlet of said converter means for delivering said SO₃ conditioning medium to said precipitator and regulating means for regulating the production means, characterised in that the regulating means receives a precipitator input signal representing the power dissipation in the precipitator and generates an output signal therefrom, and applies said output signal to control the inputs to the combining means. According to another aspect of the invention there is provided a method for treating exhaust gases by controlling the supply of an SO₃ conditioning medium to the gases upstream of an electrostatic precipitator in relation to the power dissipation in the precipitator, said method comprising providing an input of sulfur and an input of air into a burner, burning the sulfur and air in said burner to produce the combustion products thereof, converting said combustion product into the SO₃ conditioning medium, sensing the temperature of the said input of the burner or the temperature of the SO₃ conditioning medium with temperature sensing means, modulating the energy flow rate into said burner by an amount bearing a predetermined relationship to the output of the temperature sensing means, and delivering said conditioning medium to said precipitator, characterised in that a signal for controlling the inputs to the burner is derived from a regulating means which receives a precipitator input signal representing the power dissipation in the precipitator. The above brief description as well as other features and advantages of the present invention will be more fully appreciated by reference to the following detailed description of a presently preferred but nonetheless illustrative embodiment in accordance with the present invention when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, wherein Referring to Fig. 1, the illustrated apparatus receives air from a source of air 10, a duct vented to the atmosphere feeding air filter 12. Filter 12 is coupled through damper 14 to blower 16. Blower 16 can be rated at 320 SCFM at 100 W.C. and can be driven by a 10 hp motor not shown . The output of blower 16 communicates with an auxiliary air source 18 which is supplied for purging purposes. Source 18 connects through block valve 18A and check valve 18B to the output of blower 16 which connects to the input of a modulation means, shown herein as airheater 20. Airheater 20 may be a commercially available heater such as three Chromalox or equivalent type airheaters connected in series, each rated at 15 kw. Connected to the output of blower 16 is flow sensor 16A which produces a signal indicating the existence of an insufficiently low flow rate. Such an insufficient flow can trigger an alarm through flow alarm 16B to produce an audible or visible signal. A burner means also referred to as a sulfur means is shown herein as reactor vessel 22 which may be a sulfur burner filled with refractory balls. While sulfur burner 22 has air injected vertically upward by duct 20D through the bottom of the burner, sulfur is supplied by line 24 through the top in an opposing direction. The opposition of the two flows together with the turbulence caused by the refractory balls insures for complete combustion of the sulfur into sulfur dioxide SO₂ . A source of sulfur, shown herein as tank 26, may be heated by steam from an industrial plant associated with the apparatus of Fig. 1. This steam is conducted through heating coils 26A to insure that the sulfur remains freely in the liquid state. The output line 26B of sulfur source 26 is surrounded by steam jacket 26C to insure that the sulfur remains heated. Sulfur tank 26 may, in practical embodiments, have appropriate fire protection devices and air purging inlets to facilitate proper operation thereof. In one preferred embodiment, the sulfur storage tank was 12 feet in diameter and 15 feet high. Also, sulfur tank 26 can be externally filled by an appropriate sulfur pump through various block valves neither valves nor pump shown . The sulfur from tank 26 can flow through basket type filter 28 which may be one of several filters connected in parallel. Filter 28 also carries heating steam along line 28A to heat the contents of filter 28. The outlet of filter 28 communicates through steam jacketed lines to a throttle means, shown herein as sulfur means 30. Sulfur means 30 is, in one proposed embodiment, a sulfur feed pump rated at 6 GPH at 50 PSI and driven by 1 4 hp motor M. Sulfur pump 30 has a cooling water inlet 30A which drains through block valve 30B to drain 30C. This cooling water protects the bearings of sulfur pump 30. Also, pump 30 employs steam through line 30D to keep the liquid sulfur within the pump at a properly high temperature. The extent to which pump 30 pumps is regulated by a pneumatic signal on line 30E which connects to an input of pump 30. The gaseous SO₂ produced in the burner 22 as the combustion products of the incoming oxygen and sulfur, exit through line 24A to the input of a converter means, shown herein as catalytic converter 32. Converter 32 can contain vanadium pentoxide V₂O₅ supported by a silica gel. Such a catalyst material is commercially available from various suppliers such as Monsanto. In one especially preferred embodiment, sulfur burner 22 and catalytic converter 32 are formed as nested coaxial vessels. Referring to Fig. 2, the sulfur burner is shown as a central chamber containing refractory balls 34 as previously mentioned. The vanadium pentoxide 32A is shown contained within vessel 32 outside vessel 22. The upper portions of vessels 22 and 32 communicate so that SO₂ formed in reactor 22 can flow upwardly in the same direction as the incoming combustion air , communicate to the top of vessel 32 and flow downwardly through the vanadium pentoxide 32A. In a known manner, the vanadium pentoxide can catalytically convert the SO₂ into SO₃. A combined nested reactor vessel of this type is commercially available from Ballestra, S.p.A. of Milano, Italy, although other types of reactors can be used instead. The output from converter 32 connects through line 32A Fig. 1 to a delivery means 36, shown in the form of a plurality of lance type probes for injecting conditioning gas into the inlet line of an electrostatic precipitator shown hereinafter . The connection between burner 22 and converter 32, schematically illustrated as line 24A, connects to a temperature sensor 24B which can sense an unacceptably low temperature and trigger low temperature alarm 24C. A low temperature signal from sensor 24B connects to one input of OR gate 38 whose other input connects to the output of low temperature sensor 20A which is able to sense a low temperature at the output of airheater 20. If either of these low temperature signals are received at gate 38, the gate can turn off motor M. This feature assures that low temperature does not cause insufficient combustion and or sulfur fouling of the burner vessel. Two alternately usable sensing means are shown herein as temperature transmitters 20B and 32C. These temperature transmitters can be alternatively selected by switch S1. In most practical embodiments, switch S1 will not be actually used but a choice will be made initially whether sensing is to be performed from either the location of sensors 20B or 32C. The control signal selected by switch S1 is coupled to a summing node 40 which may be an appropriate control device such as an operational amplifier having various summing inputs. In this embodiment the output of node 40 is inverted and applied as a modulated power input to line 20C which is the electric heating element of airheater 20. Accordingly, this electrical heater may be employed as a means for varying the temperature of the airflow through heater 20. A parametric signal is applied at terminal 42 from a parametric means shown hereinafter . A parametric signal in this context is a signal in which one or more measurable properties of an exhaust system which relate to the performance of the electrostatic precipitator shown hereinafter are represented. Such measurable properties may include the precipitator gas flow and of supporting devices associated with it. The parametric signal is connected through a scaling amplifier 44 to another input of summing node 40. Terminal 42 also connects to an electrical to pneumatic transducer 46 to provide a pneumatic control signal along line 30E to sulfur pump 30. To facilitate an understanding of the principles associated with the apparatus of Figs. 1 and 2, its operation will now be briefly described. Steam is supplied from the associated industrial plant to lines 26A, 28A and 30D as well as the various steam jackets for the sulfur conducting lines, to keep the sulfur in a liquid state. Also, water is passed through line 30A to drain 30C to cool the bearings of pump 30. It will further be assumed that the signal on terminal 42 is at and remains at some constant value for a given period of time. Consequently, transducer 46 applies a constant drive signal to sulfur pump 30 commanding it to operate at a corresponding constant pumping speed. For pump 30 to operate however, motor M must be activated. At start up, the temperature on lines 20D and 24A will be low so that temperature sensors 24B and 20A both apply unacceptably low signals to OR gate 38 which keeps motor M off. However, temperature transmitter 32C or if selected, transmitter 20B , issues a low signal causing node 40 to issue a relatively high signal along line 20C to heat the air passing through airheater 20. Consequently, this heated air travels through burner 22 and converter 32 causing an acceptably high temperature signal to issue from sensors 24B and 20A. Therefore, OR gate 38 energizes motor M causing sulfur to be pumped through pump 30 into burner 24. The liquid sulfur pouring down into burner 22 cascades across the refractory balls 34 Fig. 2 causing thorough combustion with the heated air passing upwardly through duct 20D. The SO₂ produced thereby passes through converter 32 to produce SO₃. This SO₃ reaches probes 36 to condition the gas in an electrostatic precipitator described hereinafter . As the process continues, the temperature sensed at the output line 32A by transmitter 32C or transmitter 20B indicates a rising temperature due to the heats of combustion conversion and the effect of airheater 20. Consequently, this high temperature signal is conveyed through switch S1 to summing node 40 to decrease the drive on line 20C to airheater 20. Thus, the system is controlled to optimize the energy and heat balance and produce a regulated temperature either at duct 32A or duct 20D, depending upon whether temperature transmitter 32C or 20B is selected, respectively. The production rate of SO₃ can be varied in response to the parametric signal on terminal 42. This parametric signal originally assumed to be constant can be a variable related to the volumes passing through an electrostatic precipitator an indication of the amount of conditioning gas that may be required by the precipitator. Therefore, an increase occurring to the signal at terminal 42 can be conveyed through line 30E to increase the pumping rate of sulfur pump 30. Consequently, the increased flow rate of sulfur into burner 22 eventually results in an increased flow rate of SO₃ into probes 36. Also, this increased production rate requirement is coupled through amplifier 44 to summing node 40. The increased production rate causes the drive applied along line 20C to airheater 20 to decline. This decline in airheater drive follows from the fact that an increased burning rate of sulfur tends to increase the temperature within the burner 22 anyway. If the system is to be shut down, the sulfur flow is terminated and purge air introduced as follows At this time block valve 184 may be opened to allow auxiliary air from the associated industrial plant to also pass through airheater 20 and purge the system. Referring to Fig. 3, a modified embodiment is illustrated in which components identical to those previously described in Fig. 1 bear the same reference numerals. One difference in the structure of the apparatus of Fig. 3 is the addition of a pneumatic branch line 30F from line 30E connecting to a diaphragm 50A of a modulation means 50 which operates as a means for varying the rate of air flow from blower 16. Diaphragm 50A can operate the damper within modulation means 50 so that it operates as a throttle means for restricting air flow. Also shown herein is an additional airheating means 52, supplied through check valve 52A and block valve 52B by an air supply BPA which is preferably preheated air from a boiler. Heater 52 may be constructed similarly to heater 20. Electrical heater line 52C of airheater 52 connects to a control means in the form of a temperature controller 52D coupled to sense the temperature at the output duct 52F of the airheater 52. Temperature controller 52D is connected to regulate the heat input so that the output temperature at duct 52F is kept constant at, for example, 350 . Ducts 52F and 32A merge into duct 54 which feeds the previously mentioned probes 56. The temperature at duct 54 is monitored by temperature transmitter 54A which senses the combined temperature caused by the mixing of the outputs from ducts 52F and 32A. Transmitter 54A is connected to switch S1 in a manner similar to that described previously for transmitter 32C Fig. 1 . The operation of the apparatus of Fig. 3 is similar to that previously described for Fig. 1. However, the parametric signal on terminal 42 can additionally regulate the volume or flow rate of air through blower 16 in proportion to the flow rate of sulfur through pump 30. Therefore, the mass flow rate of sulfur and air into burner 22 can increase and decrease synchronously depending upon the parametric signal. This feature can be useful in that there is no change in the concentration of sulfur dioxide and air passing through duct 24A since both the sulfur and air flow rate can be simultaneously modulated. The modulation of air is achievable under this particular embodiment because the excess air to the probes is supplied by the auxiliary source BPA and need not be supplied by air intake 10. Also, the auxiliary heated supply through heater 52 can reduce the demand for high temperatures at line 32A. It is desirable to keep the temperature at the probe 36 above a certain temperature so that the sulfur trioxide does not condense. However, this required temperature may not be the one at which burner 22 and converter 32 operate most efficiently. Therefore, the injection of heated air into duct 54 can allow independent temperature adjustment. Subject to the foregoing mixing of heated air, the temperature sensed at duct 54 by transmitter 54A can be used to alter the extent to which airheater 20 heats the air passing through it to establish operating temperatures within vessels 22 and 32, in a manner previously described. Referring to Fig. 4, it shows a boiler BLR discharging an exhaust gas through duct 62 to an electrostatic precipitator 64. The output of precipitator 64 leads to an induced draft fan 66 discharging to stack 68. In this embodiment, the exhaust of duct 62 gives up heat in air preheater TR by transferring heat to the incoming air of duct 70 which is supplied through forced draft fan 72. In this Figure, the previously described subsystems of Fig. 3 are illustrated by simplified block diagram combining many detailed components into large blocks. The blocks are indentified by reference numerals used in Fig. 3 to identify the central component contained in the relevant block of Fig. 4. Accordingly, burner 22 is shown fed by sulfur pump 30 and by airheater 20 supplied by air blower 16. Burner 22 feeds catalytic converter 32 whose output is mixed with auxiliary heated air in mixer 54 and fed to probes 36. Probes 36 are shown installed in the inlet duct 62 of electrostatic precipitator 64. The output temperature of heater 52 is regulated by temperature controller 52D. Heater 52 is tapped into the duct fed by forced draft fan 72 at the connection to boiler BLR. Again, temperature transmitters 54A and 20B are connected to the outputs of converter 32 and heater 20, respectively. The output of one of these transmitters 54A and 20B may be selected by switch S1 to drive temperature controller 40 to regulate heater 20. The parametric means shown herein includes control system 76 having various inputs applied hereto. The output on line 42 of control 76 is connected to controlling inputs of blower 16 and sulfur pump 30. Thus, the parametric means 76 can control the rate at which blower 16 and pump 30 operate. It will be noted that unlike the arrangement of Fig. 3, temperature controller 40 in this embodiment need not be regulated by the parametric signal on line 42. Five inputs are shown to control system 76 but it will be appreciated that a different number may be employed in other embodiments. Input 76A is connected to the electrical control 64A of electrostatic precipitator 64. Line 76A may be so connected as to sense the power delivered to the precipitator 64. Accordingly, control 76 can operate to increase the drive to pump 30 and blower 16 if the power delivered in the precipitator is low. This allows the rate of SO₃ generation to increase and further condition the exhaust gas in the precipitator 64, thus increasing the amount of work being done by it. Input line 76B of control system 76 connects to temperature transmitter 78 which senses the temperature of the gas flowing from precipitator 64 into induced draft fan 66. An increase in this temperature is an indication of a high energy level in the exhaust gas from the precipitator 64 and therefore a significantly contaminated exhaust gas. Consequently, control system 76 responds to an increase in the temperature of the exhaust gas from precipitator 64 by increasing the drive to the pump 30 and blower 16 to provide more conditioning gas to thereby increase the extent of precipitation in precipitator 64. Input 76C of control 76 connects to motor 80. For example, line 76C can be so connected to transfer a signal corresponding to the current or power applied to motor 80. An increase in this current or in the power absorbed by motor 80 is an indication of the flow rate through the precipitator 64 and thus an indication of the amount of work which it must do. Accordingly, control system 76 responds to an increase in the current or power into motor 80 by increasing the drive to blower 16 and pump 30 thereby producing more conditioning gas for increasing the amount of useful work performable by precipitator 64. Input 76D connects to flow sensor 82 which measures the flow rate of gas between the induced draft fan 66 and the stack 68. This flow rate also is an indication of the volume passing through precipitator 64. Again, control system 76 increases the rate of production of the SO₃ in response to an increased flow rate so that precipitator 64 can produce more useful work. Another input on line 76E connects to an opacity sensor 84 within stack 68. Opacity sensor 84 can employ a light source shining through the stack gases onto a photoelectric device such as a phototransistor. In this embodiment, increased opacity of stack gas indicates a need for additional cleansing. Accordingly, control system 76 responds to an increase in measured opacity by increasing the flow rate of blower 16 and pump 30. This results in a higher production rate of SO₃ so that precipitator 64 can perform more useful work. The following description of the operation of the apparatus of Fig. 4 is similar to that of Fig. 3 except for additional detailed description of the parametric control system 76. Boiler BLR operates with a conventional forced and induced draft fan 72 and 66 to circulate air through ducts 70 and 62 and through precipitator 64 before discharge through stack 68. A portion of the air heated by airheater TR is drawn off and additionally heated through auxiliary electrical heater 52, its temperature being regulated to a predetermined temperature such as 400 F by temperature controller 52D. This heated air is mixed with the conditioning medium from converter 32 in mixer 54 and injected by probes 36 to condition the gas in precipitator 64. Temperature sensors 54A and 20B are connected to the output of converter 32 and heater 20, respectively, and operate in a fashion similar to the similarly identified components described in connection with Fig. 1 and Fig. 2. Specifically, either one may be selected by switch S1 to regulate the heat transfer of heater 20 by means of controller 40. The various operating parameters associated with the precipitator 64, induced draft fan 66 and stack 68 can be processed by control 76. In one preferred embodiment, control 76 includes an operational amplifier having mixing resistors some of which may be inverting inputs to provide an output which is a linear combination of the inputs. Accordingly, depending upon the demand issued from line 42, the production rate of SO₃ can be varied by changing the flow rates of blower 16 and pump 30. In a manner previously described, additional heat can be added to the air flow from blower 16 by the sensing of a temperature deficiency by temperature transducers 54A or 20B. Referring to Fig. 5 it shows the previously mentioned catalytic converter 32 and its outlet 32A, the latter understood as connected to but not shown connected to the previously mentioned apparatus of Figs. 1 or 3. Similarly transducer 46 is shown connected to previously described terminal 42 and thus to the previously illustrated apparatus associated therewith. Similarly, electrical line 20C of airheater 20 connects to that apparatus previously described in connection with Figs. 1 or 3. Similar remarks apply to blower 16 whose input derives from the apparatus shown in Figs. 1 or 3. Apparatus in Fig. 5 having a reference numeral less than 100 was previously described in connection with Figs. 1 or 3 and therefore need not be described further hereinafter. A supply of liquid, oxidized sulfur 100, namely SO₂, is contained in pressurized tank. The outlet line of tank 100 leads through block valve 102 to an inlet of a sulfur means 104, shown herein as an evaporator having an inlet 104A and an outlet 104B. As illustrated herein evaporator 104 holds a water bath heated by electrical coil 104C whose current is regulated by thermostatic device 104D. Thus, the bath of evaporator 104 is kept at a predetermined temperature well suited for evaporating the SO₂ flowing from tank 100. Also, the water level within evaporator 104 is regulated by level sensing transducer 104E which controls solenoid 104F and thus water inlet valve 104G. This arrangement keeps the correct water level within the evaporator. In this embodiment the water bath of evaporator 104 is regulated to a temperature just below boiling. Evaporator 104 can be drained by means of a drain valve 106 coupled to the output of block valve 104G. Valve 106 feeds a drain 108. Evaporator 104 may be a commercially available evaporator. For example a series 50 202 evaporator manufactured by Wallace and Tiernan will operate satisfactorily. Other evaporators can be employed, depending upon the desired capacity, temperature, rate and other requirements. The outlet 104B of evaporator 104 contains gaseous oxidized sulfur SO₂ at a relatively high pressure. The pressure is reduced by pressure reducing valve 110 and fed to regulating valve 112. Pressure regulating valve 112 is hydraulically operated by previously described line 30E. Line 30E is coupled to valve 112 through normally open valve 114. Valve 114 is a solenoid operated valve driven by the output of NOR gate 38, which output also connects to the input of motor M used to drive previously mentioned blower 16. NOR gate 38, as before, recieves the outputs from temperature sensors 24B and 20A. If these temperatures are within acceptable limits, normally open valve 114 is kept open and motor M remains energized. This feature again prevents sulfur dioxide and air from flowing in the system when the operating temperatures are improper. The output of flow regulating valves 112 communicates with the output of air heater 20 and both lead to the input of a helical mixer 116. Mixer 116 may be a static inline mixer to homogenize the SO₂ air stream. Mixer 116 has an internal helical element used to thoroughly mix the air and SO₂. The output of mixer 116 connects to the previously described line 24A, the inlet to catalytic converter 32. The following description of the operation of the apparatus of Fig. 5 is similar to that given in connection with Figs. 1 and 3, except for the use of liquid SO₂. Assuming that the temperatures sensed by sensors 20A and 24B are within an acceptable range, motor M is commanded to drive blower 16 at rated speed and block valve 114 is open. Therefore the flow control signals on line 30E are effective to regulate the flow through valve 112. Consequently, the pressurized liquid SO₂ in tank 100 flows through block valve 102 into the evaporator coils of evaporator 104. As mentioned before the water level and temperature is regulated to effectuate complete evaporation. Consequently gaseous SO₂ flows through line 104B, to have its pressure reduced by valve 110. Thereafter the flow, as regulated by valve 112, produces a flow of SO₂ toward mixer 116. The volume of flow through valve 112 is regulated as before in response to signals at terminal 42 corresponding to certain operating parameters of the precipitators and its environs. Also flowing toward mixer 116 is the output from airheater 20. As was the case in Figs. 1 and 3, the volume and temperature of air from airheater 20 can be regulated to produce the desired energy flow. The combined flow of air and SO₂ into mixer 116 produces a homogeneous output at line 24A. The resulting flow into catalytic converter 32 produces at outlet 32A, SO₃. As before, the SO₃ is used as a conditioning medium and is fed to the previously mentioned probes in the electrostatic precipitator. As before, the output temperature at line 32A can be used to regulate the electrical drive to airheater 20 to vary the output temperature from it. Again the electrical drive to airheater 20 can be influenced also by the parametric signal provided on line 42. Furthermore, in some embodiments as per Fig. 3 the parametric signals on line 42 can be used to control a damper feeding blower 16 to regulate its volume of airflow. It is to be appreciated that various modifications may be implemented with respect to the above described preferred embodiments. For example, the various transfer functions associated with the controllers described herein can be altered depending upon the characteristics of the associated plant or depending upon the desired response time. Furthermore, numerous temperature sensors, flow sensors, pressure sensors and other sensors can be installed in the various lines described herein to monitor additional process variables. Also, the construction of the burner and catalytic converter can be altered depending upon the desired flow rate, conversion efficiency, operating temperature, reliability, size constraints, etc. Also, while various steam heating coils and water cooling lines are illustrated in other embodiments they may be eliminated or replaced by other means such as electrical means. Also, the regulation of various pumps and air and blowers can be accomplished by various alternate techniques. Other forms of communication can be used in different embodiments. Futhermore, while various electrical controls are shown, fluidic or computer circuits can be used in other embodiments. Obviously, many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings. It is, therefore, to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims, the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.