# CIRCUITRY FOR CHARACTERIZING SPEECH FOR TAMPER PROTECTED RECORDING

## Claims
System zum Herstellen von gegen unbefugte Einwirkung geschützten Aufzeichnungen mit einem Aufzeichnungsgerät zum Aufzeichnen eines Tonsignals auf einem Aufzeichnungsträger einer zum Erzeugen von das Tonsignal kennzeichnenden Informationen dienenden Schaltungsanordnung mit einer Filtereinrichtung 10 , die derart wirkungsverbunden ist, daß sie das Tonsignal empfängt und einen Teil des Tonsignals auswählt ferner mit einem mit dem Ausgang der Filtereinrichtung 10 wirkungsverbundenen Nulldurchgangsdetektor 14 zum Erfassen der Nulldurchgänge des von der Filtereinrichtung her empfangenen Tonsignals als kennzeichnenden Informationen einem mit dem Ausgang des Filters 10 verbundenen Schwellenglied 16 zum Feststellen, ob das von dem Filter kommende Signal die Schwelle des Schwellengliedes 16 erreicht einer mit dem Ausgang des Schwellengliedes 16 und des Nulldurchgangsdetektors 14 verbundene Einrichtung 18 zum Erzeugen eines die Anzahl der Nulldurchgänge in aufeinanderfolgenden Zeitintervallen angebenden Zählstandes und zum Erzeugen einer Anzeige, ob der Schwellenwert des Schwellengliedes 16 in jedem dieser aufeinanderfolgenden Zeitintervalle erreicht worden ist einer mit der zuletztgenannten Einrichtung 18 verbundene Einrichtung 20 zum Empfangen des genannten Zählstandes für jedes der aufeinanderfolgenden Zeitintervalle und der genannten Anzeige und zum Umsetzen der Zählstände und Anzeigen in Datensignale, die zusammen mit dem Tonsignal auf dem Aufzeichnungsträger aufgezeichnet werden kann und einem bei der Wiedergabe des aufgezeichneten Tonsignals und der aufgezeichneten Datensignale betreibbaren Decoder zum Vergleich der beim Aufzeichnen des Tonsignals in dem Datensignal aufgezeichneten Anzahl der Nulldurchgangs Zählstände mit dem bei der Wiedergabe des aufgezeichneten Tonsignals erhaltenen Zählstand der Nulldurchgänge zwecks Feststellung, ob eine unbefugte Einwirkung auf das aufgezeichnete Tonsignal stattgefunden hat.

## Description
This invention relates to circuitry for characterizing audio signals at the time they are being recorded on a recording medium for later reproduction. Data signals obtained from the characterizing information are also recorded on the recording medium which are usable at a later time to determine whether the recorded audio has been altered. In particular, the invention relates to such audio characterizing circuitry wherein the audio is characterized by the use of zero crossing detection circuitry. There are situations where it is desirable to make a recording of audio information, such as speech or speech plus other audio, which will be played back at a later time with such recording made in a manner such that the authenticity of the recording, if questioned, can be verified electronically using a reasonable amount of electronic circuitry. Recordings made in such a manner have application in fields such as law enforcement, private investigation, journalism, medical, legal and many other similar fields where the authenticity of audio recordings might be questioned at some time. A tamper protected recording system has been disclosed in EP 0067178 wherein input audio signals are recorded together with a first data signal that includes characterizing information derived from the input audio signals with a second data signal produced during playback that includes information of the same type obtained from input audio signals, with such second data signal derived from the recorded input audio signals. The two data signals are compared electronically. If the two data signals fail to provide a high level of comparison, the recording is considered to have been altered. The level of comparison that can be attained with such a system using a reasonable amount of circuitry is directly related to the information contained in the input audio signals that is used to provide the data signal and the manner in which such information is obtained. Use of the envelope information presented the input audio signal for characterising information, for example, is not desirable since it does not contain sufficient information to permit the attainment of a desired level of comparison of the two data signals the use of a reasonable amount of circuitry to provide an economically acceptable system. According to this invention there is provided a system for providing tamper protected recordings comprises a recorder arranged to record an audio signal on a recording media circuitry for the production of characterising information with respect to said audio signal including filter means operatively connected for receiving the audio signal and selecting a portion of the audio signal a zero crossing detector operatively connected to the output of said filter means for detecting, as characterising information, the zero crossings of the audio signal received from said filter means a threshold detector connected to the output of said filter for determining when the signal from said filter satisfies the threshold of said threshold detector means connected to the output of said threshold detector and said zero crossing detector for producing a count of the zero crossing for consecutive time intervals and providing an indication of whether the threshold of said threshold detector was satisfied during each of said consecutive time intervals and means connected to said last mentioned means for receiving said count for each of the consecutive time intervals and said indication for each of the consecutive time intervals and converting said counts and indications into data signals which can be recorded with the audio signal on the recording media a decoder operable during playback of the recorded audio signal and data signals arranged to compare the number of zero crossing counts recorded in said data signal at the time the audio signal was recorded with a count of the zero crossings upon playback of the recorded audio signal for determining whether tampering of the recorded audio signal has occurred. A feature of the present invention is embodied in circuitry usable for providing the characterising information to he obtained from the audio signal input for said system and includes filter means operatively connected for receiving the audio signal and selecting a portion of the audio signal a zero crossing detector operatively connected to the output of the filter means for detecting, as characterising information, the zero crossings of the audio signal received from the filter means a threshold detector connected to the output of the filter for determining when the signal from the filter satisfies the threshold of the threshold detector means connected to the output of the threshold detector and the zero crossing detector for producing a count of the zero crossing for consecutive time intervals and providing an indication of whether the threshold of the threshold detector was satisfied during each of the consecutive time intervals and means connected to the last mentioned means for receiving the count for each of the consecutive time intervals and the indication for each of the consecutive time intervals and converting the counts and indications into data signals which can be recorded with the audio signal on the recording media. Conversion into data signals of the counts and the indication whether the threshold was satisfied is carried out by the use of frequency shift keying. The circuitry used in the invention thus provides zero crossing information contained in the input audio signals for inclusion in data signals recorded with the input audio signal. By using a bandpass filter, the circuitry functions to count the zero crossing in a limited bandwidth of the audio input signal. Such counts are taken during equal and sequential increments of time. The time increment used is less than one second, much less than the time it takes to say most words. The audio input signal within the limited bandwidth is examined by the circuitry to determine whether a threshold has been satisfied. By using the threshold requirement, the zero crossing count taken when the threshold has been satisfied any time during a counting time increment is usable even should there be dropouts in the recorded signal that are as much as the threshold level. The threshold for the threshold detector is provided at a level such that the threshold is satisfied at least fifty percent of the time that a speech input is presented as the audio signal being recorded. The circuitry used in the invention can include an amplifier connected between the output of the filter means and the input of the zero crossing detector which will ensure that the level of any noise signals that are present, when audio is present, is sufficient so zero crossings of the noise signals within the bandwidth will be counted. It is preferred also that the zero crossing detector have some hysteresis to prevent the zero crossing detector circuit from chattering due to noise in the audio input signal and thus provide accurate zero crossing detections. The threshold for the threshold detector is established at about 20 decibels above the hysteresis of the zero crossing detector. Since a minimum number of zero crossings will occur during each count time interval due to the range of signals passed by the filter, only the count in excess of such minimum number need be recorded as a part of the data signal on the tape making it possible to provide a compressed count of the zero crossings. The novel features and advantages of the invention presented herein will become more apparent to those skilled in the art upon consideration of the following detailed description and referenced drawing which is a single figure that is a schematic drawing in block form of circuitry used in the invention. The tamper protecting recording system for which the invention presented herein has application provides for the recording of an audio input together with a data signal containing information on a recording media, such as magnetic recording tape, which is useful for determining whether the recorded audio input has been altered subsequent to its recording. It is possible to record the audio and data signal on the same track or use separate tracks. If the recording is made at a slow speed, the use of a separate track is preferred due to the limited frequency separation that is possible at the low recording speeds. In a known tamper protecting recording system the data signal includes periodic recording of the identification number provided for the recorder, real time and characterizing information from the audio signal based on a count of zero crossings for use in the data signal recorded with the audio input that is being recorded. Referring to the single figure of the drawing, circuitry embodying the present invention includes a bandpass filter 10, an amplifier 12, a zero crossing detector 14, a threshold detector 16, two microprocessors 18 and 20 plus an FSK integrator 22. Speech, while having a low dominate frequency, does not contain much characterizing information at such frequency. Another factor that must be considered is the frequency bandwidth of the tape recording system provided for the recording speed being used. The higher the recording speed, the greater the bandwidth provided by the recorder. In order that a compact recorder can be employed and still provide adequate recording time, a low recording speed is used. The circuit of the drawing, with respect to the bandwidth of the filter 10, is based on the foregoing factors wherein the recording speed is 1.2 cm sec. The bandpass selected for filter 10 is 1,000 to 3,000 Hertz and is connected to receive the same audio signal that is being recorded by the tape recorder not shown . The output of the filter 10 is applied to the amplifier 12. A bounded or clipped amplifier is preferred for use as the amplifier 12 since it provides an amplifier that will not go into saturation and will use less current which is important for a battery operated recorder with which the circuit of the drawing is included. The amplifier 12 is used to provide a gain that is sufficient to assure that low level noise signals present in the filtered signal, when there is an absence of speech, will be of a level sufficient to satisfy the hysteresis presented by the zero crossing detector 14 to which the output of the amplifier is connected. The amplifier 12 is, of course, not needed if the signal level from the filter 10 is adequate. While not required in all cases, it is preferred that some hysteresis be presented by the zero crossing detector 14 so it will not chatter due to noise in the speech signal. The speech signals are normally much greater than any background noise. The zero crossing detections made by the zero crossing detector 14 are counted by a binary counter. This can be provided by the microprocessor 18, which is available, eliminating the need for a separate counter circuit. The microprocessor 18 will be available since it is needed for other functions relating to the overall system in which the present invention is usable. The counts taken by the microprocessor 18 of the zero crossings are obtained during equal and sequential increments of time wherein such time increment is much less than the time it takes to say most words. A time interval of 15.625 milliseconds is suitable providing 64 counting intervals every second. This time interval coupled with the bandpass filter means the count will range from about sixteen to forty eight allowing the count to be compressed by using only the count above sixteen as data to be recorded with the audio signal. With the count so compressed, only five data bits are required for each count which makes for efficient use of data bit density. These counts, as provided by the microprocessor 18, are fed to a microprocessor 20 which serves to convert the count to frequency shift keying FSK form for recording of the count on the tape or other recording media of the recorder not shown as frequency signals wherein one cycle of one frequency represents a 1 and another frequency, for example, a frequency twice that of the one frequency, is used to provide two cycles to represent a 0 . To simplify the maintenance of the necessary timing that is required, such frequencies have a harmonic relationship with the frequency of the clock of the microprocessor 18 which determines the time interval used for taking the zero crossing count. Frequencies of 1024 and 2048 Hertz are used for 1 and 0 , respectively, and are derived from the clock provided by microprocessor 20. The microprocessor 20 also used to time the entry of other information for the data signals mentioned earlier in such FSK form for recording with the count information and also provide necessary synchronizing bits, bits for an error correction code as well as fill bits. The FSK signal output of the microprocessor 20 is shaped via the FSK integrator circuit 22 before it is presented to the recorder not shown for recording with the audio input provided to the recorder. Real time has been indicated as one of the inputs to be provided as a part of the data signal to be recorded. The real time information is maintained by the microprocessor 18 which uses a 32,768 Hertz clock crystal as the basis of its timing. This allows the microprocessor 20 with its 1.048576 megahertz clock to be turned off to conserve power when the system is not being used for recording audio input and data signals. It was found that the circuitry that has been described in detail to this point is not suitable for supplying zero crossing counts as a part of the data signal which is recorded. When such circuitry to provide the zero crossing counts was used, comparisons of the recorded zero crossing counts with zero crossing counts obtained from the recorded audio input by a similar circuit in a decoder provided for checking the recording for possible alteration provided erratic results. Though no alteration had been made, the results could be those expected if the recorded audio input had been altered. A study of the results obtained led to the discovery that the differences presented by the comparisons would be consistent if the comparison was made only if a threshold requirement was met by the audio being recorded and being characterized by zero crossing count over a counting time interval. The threshold detector 16 was added to the circuitry described to this point and receives its input from the filter 10. The threshold detector 16 provides an indication to the microprocessor 18 as to whether the audio signal received from the filter 10 has satisfied the threshold level of the detector 16. A suitable threshold level for the detector 16 is one that will be satisfied 50 to 70 percent of the time while speech is presented for recording. In the case of a detector 16 having hysteresis, a threshold on the order of twenty decibels above the hysteresis of the zero crossing detector was found to be suitable. The microprocessor 18 is programmed to provide one bit of information to the microprocessor 20 for each counting time interval to indicate whether the threshold was satisfied at any time during the counting time interval. A 1 can be used to indicate the threshold was satisfied and a 0 used to indicate the threshold was not satisfied or vise versa. This information bit is passed to the microprocessor 20 and is put in FSK data for recording. It is convenient to have this information bit follow the bits used to convey the zero crossing count made for a count time interval. By using the threshold detector 16 to establish a criteria with respect to the reliability of the count made of the zero crossings during the count time interval, it is possible to make a count of zero crossings upon play back of the recorded audio signal to provide a reliable comparison with the zero crossing counts recorded via the data signal at the time the audio signal is recorded to determine whether any tampering of the recorded audio signal has occurred. The zero crossing count of the recorded audio signal is made using circuitry similar to the single figure of the drawing but without a threshold detector 16. A comparison of the zero crossings counts shows a total maximum difference of about forty eight crossings over sixteen consecutive counting intervals when there has been no alterations made to the recorded audio signal. A difference is considered only when the threshold information bit indicates the threshold of detector 16 was satisfied for that counting interval. The presence of any tampering in a sixteen consecutive counting interval causes the difference count for the sixteen count intervals to increase dramatically to a level of about one hundred or more. Based on the foregoing, the audio of a recording that is made in the manner that has been described will be considered to have been tampered subsequent to its recording if the difference between the zero crossing count obtained for sixteen consecutive counting intervals made at the time the audio signal is recorded and the count obtained from a playback of the audio is greater than forty five. Once a solution had been found to the problem of obtaining usable zero crossing counts, further analysis was made to determine why erratic results were obtained when using counts made with a circuit not having the threshold detector 16. It is believed one important factor is the dropouts which occur during recording and playback of the audio. Another error source is considered to be noise signals of a low level that are recorded which are not faithfully reproduced upon playback. From a functional aspect, the threshold level used for detector 16 is one that serves to prevent most recording dropouts from interfering with the zero crossing characterization of the audio signal.