# Pressure sensitive adhesive composition and intermediate copolymers for the preparation thereof.

## Abstract
A coupled alkenyl aromatic compound conjugated diene block copolymer having a total bound alkenyl aromatic com pound content from 3 to 70 by weight is represented by the general formula A B

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A coupled alkenyl aromatic compound conjugated diene block copolymer having a total bound alkenyl aromatic compound content of from 3 to 70 by weight and represented by the general formula A B mn X or A B A m1n X wherein A and A are the same or different and each represents a block of an alkenyl aromatic compound polymer B represents a block of a conjugated diene polymer or a block of a conjugated diene alkenyl aromatic compound copolymer X represents the residue of a tin containing coupling agent or a mixture of the residue of a tin containing coupling agent and the residue of a non tin containing coupling agent m is an integer of 1 or more and n is an integer from 2 to 6 corresponding to the functionality of X. 2. A copolymer according to Claim 1, wherein the total bound alkenyl aromatic compound content is from 5 to 50 by weight. 3. A copolymer according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, which has a molecular weight of from 10,000 to 1,000,000. 4. A copolymer according to Claim 3, which has a molecular weight of from 50,000 to 700,000. 5. A copolymer according to any one of Claims 1 to 4, wherein the block A has a molecular weight of from 5,000 to 50,000 and the block B has a molecular weight of from 10,000 to 200,000. 6. A copolymer according to any one of Claims 1 to 5, wherein the block B has from 2 to 10 tapered blocks in which the bound alkenyl aromatic compound content increases gradually. 7. A copolymer according to any one of Claim 1 to 6, wherein X contains from 20 to 100 mole of the residue of a tin containing coupling agent. 8. A copolymer according to any one of Claims 1 to 7, wherein X represents the residue of at least one tin containing coupling agent which is a tin halide and or an alkyltin halide. 9. A copolymer according to Claim 8, wherein said tin halide or alkyltin halide is stannous chloride, stannic chloride, stannous bromide, stannic bromide, stannous iodide, stannic iodide, stannous fluoride, stannic fluoride, methyltin trichloride or butyltin trichloride. 10. A process for producing a coupled alkenyl aromatic compound conjugated diene block copolymer as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 9, which process comprises a polymerizing from 10 to 100 by weight of the total amount of the alkenyl aromatic compound used b after the polymerization of said alkenyl aromatic compound is substantially complete, adding and polymerizing a conjugated diene or a mixture consisting of 50 by weight or more of a conjugated diene and not more than 50 by weight of an alkenyl aromatic compound c after the polymerization of said conjugated diene or said mixture is substantially complete, polymerizing from 90 to 0 by weight of the total amount of the alkenyl aromatic compound used and d after the polymerization of said alkenyl aromatic compound is complete, adding a tin containing coupling agent or a combination of a tin containing coupling agent and a non tin containing coupling agent to couple the polymers. 11. A process according to Claim 10, wherein the addition of said conjugated diene or said mixture of a conjugated diene and an alkenyl aromatic compound in step b is conducted in from 2 to 10 stages and, after each addition. the added diene or mixture is polymerized substantially 100 . 12. A process according to Claim 10 or Claim 11, wherein the polymerization of said conjugated diene and or said alkenyl aromatic compound is conducted using a lithium catalyst. 13. A process according to Claim 12, wherein the amount of coupling agent used is from 0.2 to 1.8 equivalents per equivalent of lithium in the polymerization catalyst used. 14. A process according to Claim 13, wherein the amount of the coupling agent used is from 0.4 to 1.5 equivalents. 15. A process according to any one of Claims 10 to 14, wherein each polymerization is conducted in the presence of from 0.0005 to 1 by weight, based on the weight of the monomers, of an amine and or an ether. 16. A process according to any one of Claims 10 to 15, wherein each polymerization is conducted at a temperature of from 300C to 1200C. 17. A process according to any one of Claims 10 to 16, wherein the weight ratio of the tin type coupling agent to the non tin type coupling agent is from 1 0 to 1 5. 18. A process according to Claim 17, wherein the tin type coupling agent is used alone. 19. A pressure sensitive adhesive composition comprising a 100 parts by weight of a block copolymer containing at least 20 by weight of a coupled alkenyl aromatic compound conjugated diene block copolymer having a total bound alkenyl aromatic compound content of from 3 to 70 by weight and represented by the general formula A B m n,X and or ABA m n wherein A, A , B and m are as defined in Claim 1 X represents the residue of a tin containing coupling agent and n is an integer from 2 to 4 corresponding to the functionability of X b from 20 to 200 parts by weight of a tackifier c from 0 to 20 parts by weight of an organic acid and d from 0 to 100 parts by weight of a softener. 20. A pressure sensitive adhesive composition according to Claim 19, wherein the block copolymer consists of from 20 to 100 by weight of a coupled alkenyl aromatic compound conjugated diene block copolymer represented by the general formula A B m1 n X and or A B A m n,X and from 80 to 0 by weight of another block copolymer. 21. A pressure sensitive adhesive composition according to Claim 20, wherein the weight ratio of the coupled alkenyl aromatic compound conjugated diene block copolymer and the other block copolymer is from 30 70 to 100 0. 22. A pressure sensitive adhesive composition according to Claim 20 or Claim 21, wherein said other block copolymer is at least one block copolymer of formula A B mA, A B ,, B A mB, A B m n Z and A B A m n Z wherein A represents a block of an alkenyl aromatic compound polymer or a block of a copolymer of an alkenyl aromatic compound main component and a conjugated diene B represents a block of a conjugated diene compound polymer or a block of a copolymer of a conjugated diene main component and an alkenyl aromatic compound Z represents the residue of a non tin containing coupling agent m is an integer of 1 or more and n is an integer from 1 to 6 corresponding to the functionality of Z. 23. A pressure sensitive adhesive composition according to Claim 22, wherein said other block copolymer is a block copolymer represented by the formula A B m 24. A pressure sensitive adhesive composition according to any one of Claims 19 to 23. wherein the amount of the tackifier is from 50 to 150 parts by weight. 25. A pressure sensitive adhesive composition according to any one of Claims 19 to 24, wherein the amount of the organic acid is from 0.01 to 20 parts by weight. 26. A pressure sensitive adhesive composition according to any one of Claims 19 to 25, wherein the amount of the softener is from 20 to 70 parts by weight. 27. A pressure sensitive adhesive composition according to any one of Claims 19 to 26, wherein the block copolymer a is as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 9.

## Description
COUPLED ALKENYL AROMATIC COMPOUND CONJUGATED DIENE BLOCK COPOLYMER, AND PRESSURE SENSITIVE ADHESIVE COMPOSITION CONTAINING THE SAME This invention relates to a straight and or branched chain, alkenyl aromatic compound conjugated diene block copolymer coupled with a tin based coupling agent and suitable for use in pressure sensitive adhesives. It also provides a pressure sensitive adhesive composition containing said coupled block copolymer. More particularly. this invention relates to a coupled block copolymer having 1 non elastomeric blocks of an alkenyl aromatic compound polymer and 2 elastomeric blocks of a conjugated diene polymer or of a copolymer of a conjugated diene main component and an alkenyl aromatic compound, both being coupled with a tin type coupling agent1 and particularly suitable for use in hot melt type pressure sensitive adhesives. Recently, in the field of hot melt pressure sensitive adhesives, demand has increased for a thermoplastic elastomer having excellent adhesionholdability, peeling strength and die cuttability. Processes for producing a straight and or branched chain block copolymer of an alkenyl aromatic compound with a conjugated diene are known in the technical field of anionic polymerization and are disclosed in, for example, U.S. 3,465,065, 3,265,765 and 3,281.383. Block copolymers produced in accordance with these known processes. however, when used in pressure sensitive adhesives, do not have a satisfactory balance between their initial adhesive strength, adhesion holdability, peeling strength and die cuttability. Block copolymers produced according to known processes for use in pressure sensitive adhesives are highly likely to underto blocking during storage and form large lumps, and, accordingly, their handling in the production of a pressure sensitive adhesive therefrom is difficult. In order to prevent this blocking phenomenon, anti blocking agents, such as inorganic compounds e.g. talc, calcium carbonate or metallic soaps e.g., sodium stearate, calcium stearate have often been added to these block copolymers.However, pressure sensitive adhesives produced from a block copolymer containing a large amount of such an anti blocking agent possess reduced adhesion characteristics, particularly adhesion holdability and peeling strength. We have now found a block copolymer which undergoes no substantial blocking even when no anti blocking agent is used, and which can provide a pressure sensitive adhesive having excellent initial adhesive strength, adhesion holdability, peeling strength and die cuttability. This is achieved by a specific block copolymer coupled with a tin containing coupling agent. According to this invention, there is provided a coupled alkenyl aromatic compound conjugated diene block copolymer having a total bound alkenyl aromatic compound content of from 3 to 70 by weight and represented by the general formula 1 A B m1n X or 2 A B A m n X wherein A and A are the same or different and each represents a block of an alkenyl aromatic compound polymer B represents a block of a conjugated diene polymer or a block of a conjugated diene alkenyl aromatic compound copolymer X represents the residue of a tin type coupling agent or a mixture of the residue of a tin type coupling agent and the residue of a non tin type coupling agent m is an integer of 1 or more and n is an integer from 2 to 6 corresponding to the functionality of X. The invention further provides a pressure sensitive adhesive composition comprising a 100 parts by weight of a block copolymer containing at least 208 by weight of a coupled alkenyl aromatic compound conjugated diene block copolymer having a total bound alkenyl aromatic compound content of from 3 to 70 by weight and represented by the general formula A B m n, X. and or A B A m n wherein A, A , B and m are as defined above, X represents the residue of a tin type coupling agent, and n is an integer from 2 to 4 corresponding to the functionality of X b from 20 to 200 parts by weight of a tackifier c from 0 to 20 parts by weight of an organic acid and d from 0 to 100 parts by weight of a softener. The coupled block copolymer of this invention is a coupled straight and or branched chain block copolymer obtained by copolymerizing an alkenyl aromatic compound and a conjugated diene compound, further polymerizing an alkenyl aromatic compound, if necessary, and subjecting the resulting polymers to coupling with a tin containing coupling agent. The coupled block copolymer preferably has a weight average molecular weight of from 10,000 to 1,000,000. The coupled block copolymer is required to contain from 3 to 70 by weight of the bound alkenyl aromatic compound component. The weight average molecular weight of the coupled block copolymer is more preferably from 50,000 to 700,000, and most preferably from 100,000 to 600,000. When the weight average molecular weight is less than 10,000, the pressure sensitive adhesive composition of this invention has insufficient adhesion holdability.When the weight average molecular weight exceeds 1,000,000, the composition has insufficient initial adhesive strength. In the coupled block copolymer of this invention, the weight average molecular weight of the block of the alkenyl aromatic compound polymer is suitably from 3,000 to 200,000, preferably from 4,000 to 150,000, more preferably from 5,000 to 100,000, most preferably from 5,000 to 50,000. The weight average molecular weight of the block of the polymer of conjugated diene is suitably from 7,000 to 700,000, preferably from 10,000 to 500,000, more preferably from 10,000 to 300,000, most preferably from 10,000 to 200,000. As mentioned above, the content of the bound alkenyl aromatic compound component in the coupled block copolymer is from 3 to 70 by weight. This content is preferably from 5 to 50 by weight, more preferably from 5 to 40 by weight. When the content is less than 3 by weight, a pressure sensitive adhesive composition produced from the coupled block copolymer has insufficient adhesion holdability and die cuttability.When the content exceeds 70 by weight, the composition has insufficient initial adhesive strength. The die cuttability mentioned above is the property demonstrated below. In the production of pressuresensitive adhesive labels, a pressure sensitive adhesive sheet is stuck to a release paper the resulting laminate is subjected to a punching die so that only the pressure sensitive adhesive sheet is punched out in the desired label shapes then the unnecessary portion of the sheet is stripped from the release paper. In this case, when the die cuttability is poor, the sheet adheres to the die and even those portions necessary as pressure sensitive adhesive labels are stripped from the release paper, or, when the uncut part of the pressure sensitive adhesive sheet is stripped from the release paper, the adhesive labels are also stripped. That this die cuttability is poor is the biggest drawback of hot melt type pressure sensitive adhesives containing a thermoplastic block copolymer when they are utilized in pressure sensitive adhesive labels. When the tin compound coupled block copolymer of this invention is used in admixture with an uncoupled block copolymer and or a non tin coupling agent coupled block copolymer, in order to obtain the effect of this invention, it is preferred that the coupled block copolymer of this invention should contain at least 20 by weight of a tin compound coupled alkenyl aromatic compound conjugated diene block copolymer. The content of the coupled block copolymer in the block copolymer mixture of this invention is preferably at least 25 , more preferably at least 30 . When the content is less than 20 , a pressure sensitive adhesive composition produced from the block copolymer mixture has a poor balance between initial adhesive strength and adhesion holdability and also undergoes blocking during storage. The coupled alkenyl aromatic compound conjugated diene block copolymer of this invention is characterized in that the alkenyl aromatic compound conjugated diene block copolymers produced by polymerizing an alkenyl aromatic compound and a conjugated diene are coupled with A a tin type compound such as a tin chloride compound or B a mixture of said tin type compound and at least one non tin type coupling agent added to the polymerization system after the polymerization. When the coupled block copolymer of this invention produced using at least two coupling agents as mentioned above is used as hot melt type pressure sensitive adhesives, the initial adhesive strength, adhesionholdability, peeling strength and die cuttability of said adhesives are remarkably improved, and these adhesives cause only limited blocking and are very easy to store and handle. In the production of the coupled block copolymer of this invention, firstly 10 to 100 by weight of the total amount of an alkenyl aromatic compound is polymerized.After the polymerization of said alkenyl aromatic compound has been substantially completed, a conjugated diene or a mixture consisting of 50 by weight or more of a conjugated diene and 50 by weight or less of an alkenyl aromatic compound is added and polymerized. When a mixture of a conjugated diene and an alkenyl aromatic compound is used, if the proportion of the conjugated diene in the mixture is less than 50 by weight, the resulting block copolymer is poor in adhesion when used as pressure sensitive adhesives. The conjugated diene or the mixture thereof can be added in one portion or in at least two portions, preferably in 2 to 10 portions and polymerized continuously or in plural stages. The block copolymer thus produced has, as the B portion of the previously shown general formula, 0 to 10 tapered blocks in which the content of bound alkenyl aromatic compound increases gradually. The block copolymer preferably has 1 to 10, more preferably 2 to 8 tapered blocks. After the polymerization of the conjugated diene or the mixture thereof has been completed, 90 to 0 by weight of the total amount of the alkenyl aromatic compound is polymerized, if necessary polymer portion A . After this polymerization has been completed, a tin type coupling agent or a combination of a tin type coupling agent and a non tin type coupling agent is added to convert the polymers to a coupled block copolymer. The weight ratio 2 1 of the tin type coupling agent 1 and the non tin type coupling agent 2 is preferably 0 5r more preferably 0 3. When the weight ratio 2 1 1 is larger than 5, the blocking phenomenon cannot be prevented from being caused, and storage and handling become difficult. The amount of the coupling agent added is 0.2 to 1.8 equivalents, preferably 0.4 to 1.5 equivalents, per equivalent of lithium of the lithium terminated block copolymer. When the amount is less than 0.2 equivalent or more than 1.8 equivalents, the coupled block copolymer obtained contains too large an amount of uncoupled polymers and when it is used as a pressure sensitive adhesive, adhesion holdability becomes inferior. In the production of the block copolymer of this invention, it is preferred that the polymerization of an alkenyl aromatic compound or a conjugated diene be conducted in the presence of an ether or a tertiary amine. The amount of the ether or the tertiary amine.added is preferably 0.0005 to I part buy weight, more preferably 0.005 to 0.5 part by weight per 100 parts by weight of the monomers. When the amount is outside this range, a pressure sensitive adhesive produced from the resulting block copolymer is poor in balance between adhesive strength and adhesion holdability. The ether or the tertiary amine includes, for example, tetrahydrofuran, diethyl ether, anisole, dimethoxybenzene, ethylene glycol dimethyl ether, triethylamine, N dimethylaniline, pyridine, and the like. The alkenyl aromatic compound used in this invention includes styrene, a methylstyrene, p methylstyrene, m methylstyrene, o methylstyrene, p tert butylstyrene, dimethylstyrene, vinylnaphthalene, and the like. Of these, styrene is preferred. The conjugated diene includes butadiene, isoprene, piperylene, and the like. Of these, isoprene is preferred. The block copolymer used in this invention can be produced according to an isothermal polymerization process or an adiabatic polymerization process. The polymerization temperature is preferably 10 to 1400 C, more preferably 300 to 1200 C, and most preferably 30 to 1100 C. In the production of the coupled block copolymer of this invention, a hydrocarbon solvent may be used.Specific examples of this solvent includes cyclopentane, cyclohexane, benzene, ethylbenzene, xylene and mixtures thereof with pentane, hxane, heptane, butane or the like. The organolithium compound used as a polymerization initiator includes, for example, n butyllithium, sec butyllithium, tert butyllithium, n hexyllithium, isohexyllithium, phenyllithium, naphthyllithium, and the like.It is used in an amount of 0.01 to 1.0 part by weight per 100 parts by weight of the monomers. As the tin type coupling agent used in the production of the block copolymer of this invention, a tin halide compound is preferred. The tin halide compound includes tin halides such as stannous chloride, stannic chloride, stannous bromide, stannic bromide, stannous iodide, stannic iodide, stannous fluoride, stannic fluoride and the like and alkyltin halides such as methyltin trichloride, butyltin trichloride and the like. Of these, stannic chloride, stannic bromide and butyltin trichloride are particularly preferred. As the non tin type coupling agent, there may be used divinyl aromatic compounds such as divinylbenzene, divinylnaphthalene and the like dihalogenated alkanes such as dichloroethane, dibromoethane, methylene chloride, dibromomethane, dichloropropane, dibromopropane and the like trihalogenated alkanes such as chloroform, trichloroethane, trichloropropane, tribromopropane and the like benzoic acid esters halogenated silicon compounds such as silicon tetrachloride, dimethyldichlorosilicon, tetrabromosilicon and the like carbon monoxide 2 chloropropene l chloro 1,3 butadiene and so forth. The coupled block copolymer of this invention is suitable for use in hot melt type pressure sensitive adhesives. When the coupled block copolymer of this invention is used in hot melt type pressure sensitive adhesives, in order to further improve the initial tack particularly at low temperatures, the content of the alkenyl aromatic compound in the coupled block copolymer is preferably 3 to 50 by weight, more preferably 5 to 40 by weight in view of the balance among adhesion holdability, die cuttability and initial adhesive strength of said adhesives. The coupled block copolymer of this invention, when used in pressure sensitive adhesive compositions, may contain block copolymers other than those coupled with a tin compound, namely uncoupled block copolymers and or block copolymers coupled with a non tin type coupling agent. The content of these other block copolymers is preferably 80 by weight or less, more preferably 50 by weight or less based on the total block copolymers. Said other block copolymers include those represented by the following general formulas General formula 3 A B t A General formula 4 A B m General formula 5 B A m B General furmula 6 A B m n Z General formula 7 A B A m n Z In the above formulas, A is a block of a polymer of an alkenyl aromatic compound or a block of a copolymer of an alkenyl aromatic compound main component and another monomer such as a conjugated diene compound or the like B is a block of a polymer of a conjugated diene compound or a block of a copolymer of a conjugated diene compound main component and another monomer such as an alkenyl aromatic compound or the like Z is the residue of a nontin type coulpling agent m is an integer of 1 or more and n is an integer of 1 to 6 corresponding to the functionality of Z. The block copolymers represented by the general formulas 3 , 4 and 6 are particularly preferred. The block copolymer represented by the general formula 3 can be produced as follows. To a hydrocarbon solvent is added, if necessary, an ether or a tertiary amine. In this system, an alkenyl aromatic compound is firstly polymerized using an organolithium compound as a polymerization initiator. After the polymerization has been substantially completed, a conjugated diene compound is added and polymerized. Then, an alkenyl aromatic compound same as or different from the above one is added and polymerized. The block copolymers represented by the general formulas 4 and 5 can be produced in accordance with the process mentioned above or in accordance with a process for producing the block copolymer represented by the general formula 6 which is described below. In the production of the block copolymer of the general formula 6 , an alkenyl aromatic compound is firstly polymerized and then a conjugated diene compound is added and polymerized in the same manner as in the production of the block copolymer of the general formula 3 thereafter, a coupling agent having at least two but at most 6 functional groups is added to couple the polymers formed. The tin coupled block copolymer or a block copolymer mixture consisting of said block copolymer and other block copolymers, when used in pressure sensitive adhesives or in adhesives, is mixed with a tackifier and further, if necessary, with an organic acid. The organic acid includes aliphtic monocarboxylic acids such as stearic acid, oleic acid, palmitic acid and the like aliphtic dicarboxylic acids such as maleic acid, fumaric acid and the like aromatic monocarboxylic acids such as benzoic acid and the like aromatic dicarboxylic acids such as phthalic acid, isophthalic acid, terephthalic acid and the like resin acids such as abietic acid, neoabietic acid, dihydroabietic acid, tetrahydroabietic acid, a pimaric acid, iso x pimaric acid, dihydropimaric acid, levopimaric acid and the like and so forth.These organic acids can be used alone or in admixture of two or more.The amount of the organic acid used is 20 parts by weight or less, preferably 0.01 to 20 parts by weight, more preferably 0.1 to 10 parts by weight, and most preferably 0.2 to 10 parts by weight, per 100 parts by weight of the above mentioned block copolymer mixture. When the amount of the organic acid is outside the above range, the resulting pressure sensitive adhesive has a poor balance between initial adhesive strength and adhesion holdability. The initial adhesive strength can be improved by addition of one of the above mentioned organic acids. The tackifier includes a rosin type resin, a polyterpene type resin, a synthetic polyterpene type resin, an alicyclic hydrocarbon resin, a coumarone type resin, a phenol type resin, a terpene phenol type resin, an aromatic hydrocarbon resin, an aliphatic hydrocarbon resin, etc. Of these, the rosin type resin, the polyterpene type resin and the alicyclic hydrocarbon resin are particularly preferred. These tackifiers can be used alone or in admixture of two or more. The amount of the tackifier used is 20 to 200 parts by weight, preferably 50 to 150 parts by weight, and more preferably 70 to 130 parts by weight, per 100 parts by weight of the block copolymer mixture.When the amount of the tackifier is outside the above range, the resulting pressure sensitive adhesive is insufficient in initial adhesive strength and adhesionholdability. The pressure sensitive adhesive composition can further contain a softener. The softener includes, for examples, naphthenic, paraffinic and aromatic process oils and these can be used alone or in admixture of two or more.The amount of the softener used is 0 to 100 parts by weight, preferably 20 to 70 parts by weight, per 100 parts by weight of the block copolymer mixture. When the amount of the softener exceeds 100 parts by weight, the softener bleeds onto the surface of the pressure sensitive adhesive composition with the lapse of time, which is undesirable. In addition to the components mentioned above, the pressure sensitive adhesive composition of this invention may further contain, if necessary, a stabilizer e.g., an anti oxidant, an ultraviolet absorber , an inorganic filler e.g., calcium carbonate, talc, clay, titanium oxide, silica, magnesium carbonate, carbon black , a coloring agent, etc. The above mentioned components of the pressure sensitive adhesive composition of this invention are mixed with heating in, if necessary, a nitrogen gas atmosphere by a conventional tank type mixer, closed type kneader or the like. The pressure sensitive adhesive composition according to this invention exhibits the largest economical effect when it is heat melted, mixed uniformly and coated as it is to form an adhesive layer. However, this composition can also be coated after being diluted with an ordinary solvent or after being emulsified. The pressure sensitive adhesive composition of this invention obtained as above is coated on a substrate to form an adhesive layer. Therefore, this composition is effectively used in such applications as pressure sensitive adhesive tapes, labels, backing pastes for fixing light weight, shaped plastic articles and backing pastes for fixing carpets. Further, the composition is effective as an adhesive layer material for pressure sensitive adhesive tapes and labels used for frozen food or used in cold districts. Besides, the coupled block copolymer of this invention has other extensive applications. It can preferably be used in such applications as, for example, injection moldings e.g., footwears, containers , flow moldings e.g., toys, household articles and compression moldings e.g., packings, sheets, plates . Further, the coupled block copolymer of this invention can be used for altering the physical properties of other rubbers such asSBR, NBR and the like or plastics such as a polystyrene and the like, by incorporating it into said other rubbers or plastics. For example, the coupled block copolymer of this invention is utilized as an improver of, for example, impact resistance for crepe type sponges when mixed with rubbers or for general purpose polystyrenes when mixed with plastics .Furthermore, the coupled block copolymer of this invention can be mixed with asphalts for an improvement of their low temperature resitance. This invention will be explained in detail below referring to Examples and the accompanying drawing, which is a sectional view of a flap test apparatus used inExamples 12 to 18, wherein 1 refers to a tape sample, 2 to corrugated boards, 3 to movable plates constituted in such a way that their inner ends rise when a weight is applied onto their outer ends, and 4 to the main body of the flap test apparatus. It should not be interpreted that this invention be restricted to the Examples. Various measurements were conducted in accordance with the following test methods.1. Initial adhesive strength was measured in accordance with the inclination type ball tack measurement method inclination angle 300, measurement temperature 25 C 2. Peel strength was measured in accordance withJIS Z 1522 constant speed 180 peeting test, temperature 25 C 3. Adhesion holdability was measured in accordance with JIS Z 1524, provided that the adhered area was 15 x 25 mm, and the time required until a weight of 500 g fell down was measured. The measurement temperature was 25 C. 4. Die cuttability was evaluated in accordance with the following method. A pressure sensitive adhesive was hot melt coated on a paper of fine quality in a desired thickness this paper was adhered to a releasing paper the resulting assembly was cut to a size of 20 cm x 4 cm a punching edge of a size of 1.5 cm x 1.5 cm was applied to the cut assembly so that only the fine quality paper was cut to form 20 pieces which were arranged in two parallel rows, each having 10 pieces then the uncut part of the fine quality paper was stripped from the releasing paper by hand. When the number of adhesive labels stripped was 0 or 1, the die cuttability of the pressure sensitive adhesive tested was rated as o when the number was 2 to 3, the die cuttability was rated as A and when the number was 4 or more, the die cuttability was rated as x.5. Total styrene content was measured by the infrared abosorption spectrum method.6. Blocking property of the coupled block copolymers were measured by placing 50 g of the coupled block copolymer of crumb shape of about 4 mm in diameter and about 5 mm in length in a polyethylene bag, keeping the bag in a constant temperature bath at 500 C for 24 hr with applying a weight of 50 glum2, and then examining the extent of blocking of the crumb shaped block copolymer used. The rating of blocking was made as follows No No adhesion between crumbs. o Adhesion between crumbs exists but they can be easily separated when touched by hand. A Adhered crumbs cannot be separated by hand. Crumbs were adhered to form a sheet. Example 1 In a cleaned and dried autoclave equipped with a stirrer and a jacket were placed 4,500 g of cyclohexane and 1 g of tetrahydrofuran in a nitrogen atmosphere. The temperature inside the autoclave was elevated to 700 C. Then, to the autoclave contents was added a hexane solution of 0.4 g of n butyllithium, followed by addition of 50 g of styrene. The resulting mixture was subjected to polymerization for 60 min. The polymerization conversion of styrene was 100 . To the polymerization mixture was added 280 g of isoprene and the resulting mixture was subjected to polymerization for 60 min. The polymerization conversion of isoprene was 100 . Lastly, to this sytem were added 0.20 g of sufficiently dried tin terachloride and a cyclohexane solution of 0.18 g of dichloromethylsilane and the resulting mixture was subjected to coupling reaction for 20 min. Throughout the above polymerization reactions, the polymerization temperature was controlled at 700 C. After completion of the last polymerization, to the polymerization mixture was added 2,6 di tert butyl p cresol and then cyclohexane was removed by heating to obtain a block copolymer. The structure and physical properties of the coupled block copolymer obtained are shown in Table 2. Using this coupled block copolymer, the compound shown in Table 1 was prepared. The compound was dissolved in a mixed solvent consisting of equal volumes of methylene chloride and toluene the resulting solution was coated in a thickness of 30 to 35 Ni on a polyester film of 50 Ni in thickness and the coated polyester film was dried for 20 min at 1000C to obtain a pressure sensitive adhesive tape.The tape was measured for adhesion characteristics. The measurement results are shown in Table 2. Table 1 Compound.EMI20.1 tb SEP Component SEP parts SEP by SEP weight tb Block SEP copolymer SEP 100 tb I SEP Synthetic SEP polyterpene SEP resin tb Quintone SEP U 185, SEP brand SEP name SEP of SEP 100 tb SEP Nippon SEP Zeon SEP Co., SEP Ltd. tb Process SEP oil SEP of SEP naphthene SEP type tb j SEP Diana SEP Process SEP Oil SEP NM 280, SEP brand SEP SEP 20 tb name SEP of SEP Idemitsu SEP Kosan tb Anti oxidant SEP of SEP phenol SEP type SEP I tb I SEP Nocrack SEP NS 6, SEP brand SEP name SEP of SEP 1 SEP 3 tb Ohuchi SEP Shinko SEP Kagaku SEP I tb Stearic SEP acid SEP SEP 2 tb Examples 2 to 9, Comparative Examples 1 to 5 Using styrene, isoprene, and coupling agents in the amounts shown in Table 2, polymerization was conducted in the same manner as in Example 1. The structure and physical properties of each coupled block copolymer obtained are shown in Table 2.In Example 9, the block B was obtained by adding a mixture of styrene and isoprene in three portions and, after each addition, substantially 100 polymerizing each of the added portions, and had three tapered bloks in which the content of bound styrene increased gradually. Each block copolymer obtained was subjected to measurement of adhesion characteristics in the same manner as in Example 1. The results are shown in Table 2. The block copolymers of Examples 1 to 8, as compared with those of Comparative Examples 1 to 5, are superior in balance of initial adhesive strength, peeling strength and die cuttability and are less liable to cause blocking phenomenon.Example 10 Polymerization was conducted in the same manner as in Example 1, except that butadiene was substituted for the isoprene. The block copolymer obtained was subjected to evaluation of adhesion characteristics in the form of the same compound as in Example 1. The results are shown inTable 2. Table 2 EMI22.1 Tin SEP type SEP Non tin SEP type SEP Amount tb Example SEP No. SEP Amount SEP Amount tb coupling SEP agent SEP coupling SEP agent SEP of tb or SEP of SEP of tb Comparative SEP styrene SEP isoprene SEP bound tb Amount SEP Amount SEP styrene tb Example SEP No. SEP added SEP added SEP Kind SEP Kind tb added SEP added tb SEP by tb g SEP g SEP g SEP g SEP weight tb Example SEP 1 SEP 50 SEP 280 SEP Tin SEP tetra SEP 0.20 SEP Dichloromethylsilane SEP 0.18 SEP 15 tb chloride tb 2 SEP 50 SEP 280 SEP SEP 0.41 SEP SEP SEP 15 tb 3 SEP 50 SEP 280 SEP SEP 0.31 SEP Dichloromethylsilane SEP 0.090 SEP 15 tb 4 SEP 50 SEP 280 SEP SEP 0.10 SEP SEP 0.27 SEP 15 tb 5 SEP 30 SEP 270 SEP SEP 0.20 SEP SEP 0.18 SEP 10 tb 6 SEP 100 SEP 230 SEP SEP 0.20 SEP SEP 0.18 SEP 30 tb 7 SEP 50 SEP 280 SEP SEP 0.20 SEP Dibromoethane SEP 0.29 SEP 15 tb 8 SEP 50 SEP 280 SEP SEP 0.20 SEP Dichlorobutene SEP 0.20 SEP 15 tb 9 SEP 50 SEP 280 SEP SEP 0.20 SEP Dichloropropane SEP 0.18 SEP 15 tb Buta10 SEP 50 SEP diene tb 280 SEP SEP 0.20 SEP Dichloromethylsilane SEP 0.18 SEP 15 tb Comparative tb Example SEP 1 SEP 50 SEP 280 SEP SEP SEP SEP 15 tb 2 SEP 50 SEP 280 SEP SEP SEP Dichloromethylsilane SEP 0.18 SEP 15 tb 3 SEP 50 SEP 280 SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.36 SEP 15 tb 4 SEP 150 SEP 840 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 15 tb 5 SEP 75 SEP 420 SEP SEP SEP Dichloromethylsilane SEP 0.36 SEP 15 tb Cont d Table 2 Cont d EMI23.1 Molecular SEP Molecular SEP Average SEP Block SEP Adhesion SEP characteristics tb weight SEP of SEP weight SEP of SEP molecular SEP ing tb styrene SEP isoprene SEP weight SEP of SEP property SEP Initial SEP Peeling SEP Die SEP Adhesionpolymer SEP polymer SEP block SEP co SEP during SEP adhesive SEP strength SEP cuttabi SEP holdability tb before SEP before SEP polymer SEP after SEP storage SEP strength SEP lity tb coupling SEP coupling SEP coupling SEP Ball SEP No. SEP kg.f SEP min tb x SEP 104 SEP x SEP 104 SEP x SEP 104 SEP 2.5 SEP cm tb 0.8 SEP 4.5 SEP 15.9 SEP o SEP 32 SEP 3.2 SEP o SEP 60 tb 0.8 SEP 4.5 SEP 21.2 SEP o SEP 32 SEP 3.0 SEP o SEP 55 tb 0.8 SEP 4.5 SEP 18.6 SEP o SEP 32 SEP 3.1 SEP o SEP 57 tb 0.8 SEP 4.5 SEP 13.3 SEP o SEP 32 SEP 3.2 SEP o SEP 62 tb 0.5 SEP 4.3 SEP 14.4 SEP o SEP 32 SEP 3.0 SEP o SEP 62 tb 1.6 SEP 3.7 SEP 15.9 SEP o SEP 30 SEP 3.3 SEP o SEP 95 tb 0.8 SEP 4.5 SEP 15.9 SEP o SEP 32 SEP 3.2 SEP o SEP 65 tb 0.8 SEP 4.5 SEP 15.9 SEP o SEP 32 SEP 3.2 SEP o SEP 60 tb 0.8 SEP 4.5 SEP 15.9 SEP o SEP 31 SEP 3.2 SEP o SEP 60 tb 0.8 SEP 4.5 SEP 15.9 SEP o SEP 30 SEP 3.1 SEP o SEP 58 tb 0.8 SEP 4.5 SEP 5.3 SEP x SEP 27 SEP 2.9 SEP o SEP 25 tb 0.8 SEP 4.5 SEP 7.9 SEP x SEP 32 SEP 3.1 SEP o SEP 66 tb 0.8 SEP 4.5 SEP 10.6 SEP SEP 32 SEP 3.2 SEP o SEP 69 tb 2.4 SEP 13.5 SEP 15.9 SEP x SEP 32 SEP 2.9 SEP SEP 29 tb 1.2 SEP 6.8 SEP 15.9 SEP SEP 31 SEP 3.3 SEP o SEP 70 tb Example 11 Production of block copolymers of general formula 1 type Production of Al In a cleaned and dried autoclave equipped with a stirrer and a jacket were placed 0.12 g of tetrahydrofuran and 5,000 g of a mixed solvent consisting of 9 parts of cyclohexane and 1 part of n pentane. The temperature inside the autoclave was elevated to 600 C. To the autoclave contents was added a hexane solution of 0.5 g of n butyllithium, followed by addition of 120 g of styrene.The resulting mixture was subjected to polymerization for 60 min. The polymerization conversion of styrene was 100 . To the polymerization mixture was added 700 g of isoprene, and the resulting mixture was subjected to polymerization for 60 min. The polymerization conversion of isoprene was 100 . Lastly, to the polymerization mixture was added a cyclohexane solution of 0.51 g of stannic chloride, and the resulting mixture was subjected to coupling reaction for 60 min. The degree of coupling was 100 . Throughout the above polymerization and coupling reactions, the system temperature was kept at 600 C. After completion of the coupling, to the polymer solution was added 2,6 di tert butyl p cresol and then the mixed solvent of cyclohexane and n pentane was removed by heating to obtain a block copolymer Al. Production of A2 and A3 Block copolymers A2 and A3 were produced by repeating the same procedure as used in the production ofAl, except that different monomer amounts, different coupling agent amounts and different polymerization periods were used. The details of the block copolymers A2 and A3 are shown in Table 3. Production of block copolymers of general formula 2 type Production of A4 In a cleaned and dried autoclave equipped with a stirrer and a jacket were placed 0.12 g cf tetrahydrofuran and 5,000 g of a mixed solvent consisting of 9 parts of cyclohexane and 1 part of n pentane in a nitrogen mosphere. The temperature inside the autoclave was elevated to 60 C. To the autoclave contents was added a hexane solution of 0.5 g of n butyllithium, followed by addition of 120 g of styrene. The resulting mixture was subjected to polymerization for 60 min. The polymerization conversion of styrene was 100 . To the polymerization mixture was added 700 g of isoprene and the resulting mixture was subjected to polymerization for 60 min. The polymerization conversion of isoprene was 100 .To the polymerization mixture was added 120 g of styrene, and the resulting mixture was subjected to polymerization for 60 min.The polymerization conversion of styrene was 100 . Lastly, to the polymerization mixture was added a cyclohexane solution of 0.51 g of stannic chloride, and the resulting mixture was subjected to coupling reaction for 60 min. The degree of coupling was 100 . Throughout the above polymerization and coupling reactions, the system temperature was kept at 600 C. After completion of the coupling reaction, to the polymer solution was added 2,6 di tert butyl p cresol, and then the mixed solvent of cyclohexane and n pentane was removed by heating to obtain a block copolymer A4. Production of A5 A block copolymer AS was produced by repeating the same procedure as in the production of the block copolymer A4, except that different monomer amounts, a different coupling agent amount and different polymerization periods were used. The details of the block copolymers obtained are shown in Table 3. Table 3 EMI27.1 Weight SEP Weight SEP Weight tb average SEP average SEP average tb Coupling SEP Coupling SEP molecular SEP molecular SEP molecular tb Type tb agent SEP efficiency SEP weight SEP of SEP weight SEP of SEP weight tb S SEP block SEP I SEP block SEP after tb before SEP before SEP coupling tb coupling SEP coupling tb x SEP 104 SEP x SEP 104 SEP x SEP 104 tb A1 SEP s I 4 Sn SEP Stannic SEP 100 SEP 1.5 SEP 9.0 SEP 42 tb chloride tb A2 SEP SEP SEP SEP 1.0 SEP 9.0 SEP 40 tb A3 SEP SEP SEP 50 SEP 1.0 SEP 9.0 SEP 30 tb A4 SEP S I S 4 Sn SEP SEP 100 SEP 1.5 SEP 9.0 SEP 48 tb A5 SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.5 SEP 7.8 SEP 35 tb Production of block copolymer of general formula 4 type Production of B1 In a cleaned and dried autoclave equipped with a stirrer and a jacket were placed 0.12 g of tetrahydrofuran and 5,000 g of a mixed solvent consisting of 9 parts of cyclohexane and 1 part of n pentane in a nitrogen atmosphere. The temperature inside the autoclave was elevated to 600 C. To the autoclave contents was added a hexane solution of 0.5 g of n butyllithium, followed by addition of 120 g of styrene. The resulting mixture was subjected to polymerization for 60 min. The polymerization conversion of styrene was 100 . To the polymerization mixture was added 700 g of isoprene and the resulting mixture was subjected to polymerization for 60 min.The polymerization conversion of isoprene was 100 .Throughout the above polymerization reactions, the system temperature was kept at 600 to 700 C. After completion of the last polymerization, to the polymer solution was added 2,6 di tert butyl p cresol, and then the mixed solvent of cyclohexane and n pentane was removed by heating to obtain a block copolymer B1. Production of block copolymers of general formula 3 type Production of B2 In a cleaned and dried autoclave equipped with a stirrer and a jacket were placed 0.12 g of tetrahydrofuran and 5,000 g of a mixed solvent consisting of 9 parts of cyclohexane and 1 part of n pentane in a nitrogen atmosphere. The temperature inside the autoclave was elevated to 600 C. To the autoclave contents was added a hexane solution of 0.5 g of n butyllithium, followed by addition of 120 g of styrene. The resulting mixture was subjected to polymerization for 60 min. The polymerization conversion of styrene was 100 . To the polymerization mixture was added 700 g of isoprene and the resulting mixture was subjected to polymerization for 60 min. The polymerization conversion of isoprene was 100 .To the polymerization mixture was added 120 g of styrene and the resulting mixture was subjected to polymerization for 60 min. The polymerization conversion of styrene was 100 . Throughout the above polymerization reactions, the system temperature was kept at 600 to 700 C. Lastly, to the polymer solution was added 2 g of 2,6 di tertbutyl p cresol, and then the mixed solvent of cyclohexane and n pentane was removed by heating to obtain a block copolymer B2. Production of B3 A block copolymer B3 was produced by repeating the same procedure as in the production of B2, except that different monomer amounts and different polymerization periods were used. The details of the block copolymers porudced as above are shown in Table 4. Table 4EMI30.1 tb SEP Weight SEP average tb SEP molecular SEP weight SEP S SEP Content SEP of tb SEP Type SEP S SEP component tb SEP x SEP 104 tb B1 SEP S SEP SEP I SEP 10.5 SEP 15 tb B2 SEP S I S SEP 12.0 SEP 25 tb B3 SEP S I S SEP 30.0 SEP 10 tb Examples 11 1 to 11 8, Comparative Examples 11 1 to 11 4 The compound with the compounding recipe shown in Table 5 was placed in a mixing tank heated to 1000 C. The same was stirred for 60 min to obtain a pressuresensitive adhesive composition having a uniformity and a smooth fluidity. Each of the pressure sensitive adhesive compositions obtained was taken out in a molten state and coated on a substrate made of a polyester film by means of an applicator so that the coating layer had a thickness of 30 , whereby various pressure sensitive adhesive tape samples were prepared. On each of these pressure sensitive adhesive tape samples, initial adhesive strength, peeling strength, adhesion holdability and die cuttability were measured. The results are shown in Table 5. Table 5 EMI31.1 Example tb 11 1 SEP 11 2 SEP 11 3 SEP 11 4 SEP 11 5 SEP 11 6 tb A1 SEP 100 SEP 50 tb A2 SEP 100 SEP 50 SEP 50 tb SEP Block SEP copolymer SEP A3 SEP 100 tb A4 tb A5 tb Recipe tb of SEP com SEP B1 SEP 50 tb position SEP Block SEP copolymer SEP B2 SEP 50 tb Parts tb by SEP B3 SEP 50 tb weight SEP Stearic SEP acid SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb Rosin SEP Gum SEP RosinR SEP 3 SEP 3 tb Rosin SEP type SEP resin SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb Softener SEP 20 SEP 20 SEP 20 SEP 20 SEP 20 SEP 20 tb Anti oxidant SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb Initial SEP adhesive SEP strength SEP Ball SEP No. SEP 32 SEP 32 SEP 32 SEP 32 SEP 31 SEP 32 tb SEP Physical tb pro SEP Peeling SEP strength SEP kg.f 2.5 SEP cm SEP 3.2 SEP 3.1 SEP 3.0 SEP 3.0 SEP 3.0 SEP 3.1 tb perties SEP Adhesion holdability SEP min SEP 80 SEP 70 SEP 65 SEP 65 SEP 60 SEP 60 tb Die cuttability SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o tb Table 5 Cont d EMI32.1 Comparative SEP Example tb 11 7 SEP 11 8 SEP 11 1 SEP 11 2 SEP 11 3 SEP 11 4 tb 10 tb 100 tb 100 tb 90 tb 100 SEP 100 tb 100 tb 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 tb 3 SEP 3 tb 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb 20 SEP 20 SEP 20 SEP 20 SEP 20 SEP 20 tb 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb 32 SEP 32 SEP 32 SEP 20 SEP 24 SEP 18 tb 3.2 SEP 3.0 SEP 2.5 SEP 2.7 SEP 2.8 SEP 2.9 tb 95 SEP 65 SEP 25 SEP 45 SEP 50 SEP 50 tb o SEP o SEP SEP x SEP SEP tb Examples 12 to 18, Comparative Examples 12 to 16 Using styrene, isoprene, tetrahydrofuran, cyclohexane, and coupling agents in the amounts shown in Table 6, polymerization was conducted in the same manner as inExample 1 to obtain various block copolymers. The structures and physical properties of these block copolymers are shown in Table 6. Using the block copolymers, there were prepared the compositions shown in Table 7. Each of them was placed in a mixing tank heated to 1600C and stirred for 60 min, whereby various pressure sensitive adhesive compositions having a uniformity and a smooth fluidity were obtained. Each of these pressure sensitive adhesive compositions was taken out in a molten state and coated on a polyester film by means of an applicator in a thickness of 30 Ni to prepare a pressure sensitive adhesive tape.These pressure sensitive adhesive tapes were subjected to measurement of a low temperature tack, a peeling strength, an adhesion holdability at high temperatures and a sealability for corrugated board. The results are shown in Table 7. The above measurements were made in accordance with the following test methods Test methods for adhesion characteristics Low temperature tack In accordance with PSTC num 6 Rolling Ball Tack, the rolling distance of ball measured. The measurement temperature was 0 C and the running distance of ball was 7.5 cm. Adhesive strength Measured in accordance with JIS Z 0237. The load was 1.4 kg and the environmental temperature was 40 C. Sealability for corrugated board Two corrugated boards each having a size of 40 mm x 40 mm were cut off from a commercially available corrugated box. The two boards were contacted at one end of each. On this border, the two boards were pressurebonded with a tape sample of 10 mm in whidth and 40 mm in length by applying a load of a 2 kg roll 10 times under the environmental conditions of 25 C and 65 RH. The resulting corrugated boards adhered were placed on a flap test apparatus shown in the accompanying drawing, and a load 200 g x 2 was applied and the time required until the load fell down was measured. Each measurement value is an average of the values of five samples. Table 6 Polymerization Recipes and Molecular Properties of Polymers EMI35.1 Example tb 12 SEP 13 SEP 14 SEP 15 SEP 16 tb Styrene SEP g SEP 45 SEP 45 SEP 45 SEP 45 SEP 45 tb Isoprene SEP g SEP 290 SEP 290 SEP 290 SEP 300 SEP 300 tb SEP Poly SEP n Butyllithium SEP g SEP 0.15 SEP 0.15 SEP 0.15 SEP 0.19 SEP 0.19 tb merizaCyclohexane SEP g SEP 4500 SEP 4500 SEP 4500 SEP 4500 SEP 4500 tb tion tb recipe SEP Tetrahydrofuran SEP g SEP 0.45 SEP 0.45 SEP 0.45 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb Coupling SEP agents tb Dibutyltin SEP dichloride SEP mg SEP 135 SEP 206 SEP 278 SEP 271 SEP 361 tb Dichloromethylsilane SEP mg SEP 83.5 SEP 56.6 SEP 29.6 SEP 68.3 SEP 34.2 tb Amount SEP of SEP bound SEP styrene SEP wt SEP 13.3 SEP 13.3 SEP 13.3 SEP 13.0 SEP 13.0 tb Mole SEP Molecular SEP weight SEP of SEP polymer tb cular SEP before SEP coupling tb proStyrene SEP polymer SEP portion SEP x104 SEP 1.9 SEP 1.9 SEP 1.9 SEP 1.5 SEP 1.5 tb perties tb of SEP Isoprene SEP polymer SEP portion SEP x104 SEP 12.4 SEP 12.4 SEP 12.4 SEP 10.1 SEP 10.1 tb polymer tb Molecular SEP weight SEP of SEP polymer SEP 28.6 SEP 28.6 SEP 28.6 SEP 23.3 SEP 23.3 tb after SEP coupling SEP x104 tb SEP Blocking SEP property SEP during SEP polymer tb storage SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o tb Cont d Table 6 Cont d EMI36.1 Comparative SEP Example tb 17 SEP 18 SEP 12 SEP 13 SEP 14 SEP 15 tb 50 SEP 60 SEP 45 SEP 45 SEP 50 SEP 60 tb 250 SEP 240 SEP 300 SEP 300 SEP 250 SEP 240 tb 0.16 SEP 0.15 SEP 0.19 SEP 0.19 SEP 0.16 SEP 0.15 tb 4500 SEP 4500 SEP 4500 SEP 4500 SEP 4500 SEP 4500 tb 0.25 SEP 0.25 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 0.25 SEP 0.25 tb 228 SEP 214 tb 57.5 SEP 53.9 SEP 68.3 SEP 34.2 SEP 57.5 SEP 53.9 tb 16.7 SEP 20.0 SEP 13.0 SEP 13.0 SEP 16.7 SEP 20.0 tb 2.0 SEP 2.6 SEP 1.5 SEP 1.5 SEP 2.0 SEP 2.6 tb 10.0 SEP 10.2 SEP 10.1 SEP 10.1 SEP 10.0 SEP 10.2 tb 24.0 SEP 25.6 SEP 16.3 SEP 14.0 SEP 16.8 SEP 17.9 tb o SEP o SEP x SEP x SEP x SEP tb Table 7 Adhesion Characteristics EMI37.1 Example SEP Comparative SEP Example tb 12 SEP 13 SEP 14 SEP 15 SEP 16 SEP 17 SEP 18 SEP 12 SEP 13 SEP 14 SEP 15 tb Compounding SEP receipe SEP of tb pressure sensitive SEP A SEP A SEP A SEP B SEP B SEP B SEP B SEP B SEP B SEP B SEP B tb adhesive tb Low SEP temperature SEP tack SEP cm SEP 11 SEP 10 SEP 8 SEP 8 SEP 8 SEP 14 SEP 17 SEP 8 SEP 8 SEP 14 SEP 18 tb SEP Peeling SEP strength SEP 1.9 SEP 2.0 SEP 1.9 SEP 1.8 SEP 1.7 SEP 2.0 SEP 1.5 SEP 1.8 SEP 1.7 SEP 2.0 SEP 1.5 tb kg.f 2.5 SEP cm tb Adhesion holdability SEP 60 SEP 55 SEP 43 SEP 50 SEP 38 SEP 40 SEP 55 SEP 50 SEP 37 SEP 40 SEP 54 tb min tb Sealability SEP for SEP corrugated SEP 131 SEP 185 SEP 220 SEP 91 SEP 112 SEP 115 SEP 186 SEP 90 SEP 110 SEP 112 SEP 184 tb board SEP min tb Table 8EMI38.1 Amount tb SEP Compounding SEP components SEP part SEP by SEP weight tb SEP A SEP B tb SEP Block SEP copolymer SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP Escorez SEP 1310 SEP 100 SEP SEP tb Ester SEP gum SEP H SEP SEP 100 tb SEP Process SEP oil SEP of SEP naphthenes SEP 40 SEP 20 tb SEP type SEP Idemitsu SEP NM 280 tb SEP Anti oxidant tb SEP Irganox SEP 1010 SEP 1 SEP tb BHT SEP I SEP SEP 1 SEP SEP 2 tb