# Use of propiophenone compound.

## Abstract
Use of m chloro α t butylaminopropiophenone of formula

## Claims
What we claim is 1. Use o m chloro a t butylaminopropiophenone of formula I ,EMI6.1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, for the manufacture o4 a medicament for the treatment of psychosexual dysfunction in a human being. 2. Use according to claim 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of m chloro alpha t butylaminopropiophenone. 3. Use according to claim 1 of m chloro alpha t butylaminopropiophenone hydrochloride. 4. Use of a compound defined in any or claims 1 to 3 for the manufacture of a medicament according to claim 1, suitable for oral administration. 5. Use of a compound defined in any o claims 1 to 3 for the manufacture or a medicament according to claim 1, suitable for parenteral administration. 6. Use of a compound defined in any oP claims 1 to 3 for the manufacture of a rnedicament according to claim 1, suitable for rectal administration. 7. Use o a compound defined in any of claims 1 to 3 sor the manufacture of a medicament according to claim 1 in unit dosage Corm. 8. Use of a compound defined in any of claims 1 to 3 or the manuçacture o4 a medicament according to claim 1 in the form of a tablet suitable tor oral administration. 9. Use of a compound defined in any o claims 1 to 3 for the manufacture of a medicament according to claim 1 in the form of a capsule suitable for oral administration. 10. Use of a compound defined in any of claims 1 to 3 for the manufacture of a medicament according to claim 1 in the form of a suppository suitable for rectal administration.

## Description
Functional Vaginismus 8. Atypical Psychosexual Dysfunction The diagnosis for each of the conditions and a general background of psychosexual dysfunction is set forth in the text Diagnostic andStatistical Manual of Mental Disorders Third Edition , American PsychiatricAssociation, Washington, D.C., APA, 1980, Library of Congress CatalogueNumber 79 055868, Copyright American Psychiatric Association, 1980, pages 275 to 283 and in particular paragraphs 302.71, 302.72, 302.73, 302.74, 302.75, 302.76, 306.51 and 302.70 set forth on these pages 278 to 283. There is no accepted pharmacological treatment of psychosexual dysfunction, currently accepted treatment consisting of various forms of psychotherapy and behavior therapy. The effectiveness of such treatment is quite variable, and since it tends to be both prolonged and expensive it is not accessible to many sufferers. The incidence of psychosexual dysfunction in the United States of America is not known precisely, but it is estimated to be extremely common. In males the incidence increases with age to a level as high as 75 in those over 65 years old. The compound of formula I as its hydrochloride salt bupropion hydrochloride has been shown to be effective in treating human psychosexual dysfunction in a placebo controlled clinical trial involving non depressed patients and to exhibit few side effects however, the biological activity resides in the base and the identity of the acid is of less importance. In U.S. Patents Nos. 3,819,706 and 3,885,046, the compound of formula I chemically named m chloro a t butylaminopropiophenone and salts thereof are disclosed as being antidepressants. USE OF PROPIOPHENONE COMPOUND This invention is directed to a method of treatment of psychosexual dysfunction in human beings by the administration of the compound of the formula I EMI2.1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in a non toxic, therapeutic amount to a human being in need thereof. Psychosexual dysfunctions which are treated according to this invention are those in which a physical disorder or another Axis I mental disorder, e.g., major depression, is not the primary cause of disturbance in sexual function. In these situations, a psychosexual dysfunction is not properly diagnosed and this invention is not directed to those conditions in which the primary diagnosis is not psychosexual dysfunction. The particular psychosexual dysfunctions treatable by the methods disclosed herein are 1. Inhibited absent reduced Sexual Desire commonly referred to as inhibited libido 2. Inhibited absent reduced Sexual Excitement 3. Inhibited absent reduced Female Orgasm 4. Inhibited absent reduced Male Orgasm 5. Premature Ejaculation 6. Functional Dyspareunia he compcur.d ormula I the active ingredient or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is preferably administered in unit dosage form to the human being under treatment. A pharmaceutical composition containing the compound of formula I , or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, may be presented in discrete units such as cachets, tablets, capsules, ampules or suppositories, each containing the compound or salt in an effective amount for the treatment of psychosexual dysfunction or an appropriate fraction of such amount. As an example, for the treatment of human beings having one or more particular types of psychosexual dysfunction, the preferred unit dosage of the compound of formula I or salt thereof calculated as the base for oral administration or for rectal administration, for example as a suppository, is about 15 milligrams to 500 milligrams, preferably 15 milligrams to 350 milligrams, the most preferred unit dosage being in the range 25 milligrams to 300 milligrams taken two or three times a day. Therapeutic effective dosage in humans is preferably 1 to 15 mg kg orally per day.The most preferred unit dose is 135 mg in terms of base taken 2 or 3 times per day. Treatment is given on a continuous basis to a person already diagnosed as having psychosexual dysfunction. All the above doses are expressed in terms of the weight of the compound of formula I in the form of its base, but as will be appreciated from the foregoing information, it may be administered in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. Parenteral administration may be used and in this case the dose would be about one half the above indicated oral dosage. The compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof may be presented as an oral unit preparation for example as a cachet, tablet or capsule containing in addition one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers which may take the form of solid diluents such as lactose, cornstarch, micronized silica gel as well as other excipients known in the art. It should be understood that in addition to the aforementioned ingredients, the pharmaceutical compositions of this invention may include one or more additional ingredients, e.g., pharmaceutically acceptable carriers such as diluents, buffers, flavouring agents, binders, surface active agents, thickeners, lubricants, preservatives and the like. The formulations may be prepared by admixture of the ingredients and, if necessary, shaping of the resulting mass, and filling into suitable containers. The compound of formula I is preferably presented for use as a pharmaceutically acceptable salt. Examples of some of the pharmaceutically acceptable salts which can be utilized are salts of the following acids hydrochloric, sulfuric, phosphoric and toluenesulphonic acids. Reference should be had to U.S. Patents 3,819,706 and 3,885,046, which are incorporated herein by reference thereto for a description of the preparation of the compound of formula I , salts thereof and tablets, capsules, parenteral solutions and suppositories incorporating same. EXAMPLE The hydrochloride salt of the compound of formula I is administered orally as a tablet to a patient identified by a clinician as having the symptoms associated with inhibited sexual desire or other psychosexual dysfunction. The patient is administered a daily dose of 100 mg calculated as base in two or three equally divided doses, 6 hours between doses. the patient is treated continuously for several months and then taken of the drug periodically to determine whether the underlying pathology is resolved.If not, treatment is reinstituted.