# Transmissive multiport star coupler assembly and method.

## Abstract
The novel star coupler 10 comprises two spaced apart co axially aligned input and output supporting spindles 12, 14 each having a plurality of circumferentialiy symmetric radially outwardly extending slots. A like plurality of optical fibers 18 are bonded to the spindles 12, 14 and are provided with a fused biconical taper star coupling 19 along an intermediate region. A stress relief and environmentally secure housing 16 is bonded around the spindles 12, 14. The novel method of fabricating the star coupler comprises steps of bonding the optic fibers 18 in said slots of the spindles 12, 14, controllably rotating one spindle to twist the fibers 18 one over the other in an intermediate region, heating the fibers 18 in the region of the twist to fuse the fibers together, controllably pulling the spindles 12, 14 apart to form a fused bi conical taper star coupling 19, and encasing the spindles 12, 14.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Transmissive multiport star coupler assembly 10 , characterized in that it comprises a plurality of elongated optical fibers 18 , twisted, fused, and locally pulled in a region along their length to form a fused biconical taper star coupling 19 and first and second coaxially aligned spaced apart support spindles 12,14 30 each having a first section of uniform cross section 32 and a second abutting section of tapering cross section 34 , each of said spindles 30 are provided with a like plurality of symmetrically disposed circumferential radially extending slots 36 in which corresponding ones of said plurality of optical fibers 18 are bonded at a region along their lengths remote from said fused biconical taper coupling 19 . 2. A transmissive star coupler 10 , as recited in claim 1, further including a housing 16 , and wherein said first and second spindles 12,14 are respectively bonded one at each end to mating and complementary internal surfaces of said housing 16 to provide stress relief to said fused biconical taper coupler and to prevent environmentally arising damage thereto. 3. A transmissive multiport star coupler 10 characterized in that it comprises first and second spindles 12,14 co axially spaced apart along an axis a plurality of optical fibers 18 symmetrically bonded circumferentially to said first and second support spindles 12,14 and having a localized region 19 intermediate said first and second support spindles 12,14 wherein light energy present in one or more of said optical fibers to one side of said region is mixed optically and substantially equally split into said optical fibers to the other side of said region and and environmentally secure stressrelief housing 16 into which said first and second spindle 12,14 are fixably mounted. 4. A transmissive multiport star coupler, as recited in claim 3, wherein said region comprises a fused biconical taper coupling 19 . 5. A transmissive multiport star coupler, as recited in any one of claims 3 or 4, wherein each 30 of said spindles 12,14 includes a region of uniform cross section 32 and a region of tappering cross section 34 and further include a plurality of longitudinally extending circumferentially symmetric and radially outwardly extending slots 36 therethrough that are adapted to receive respective ones of said optical fibers 18 . 6. A transmissive multiport star coupler, as recited in claim 5, wherein said spindles 12,14 and said housing 16 are fashioned of a relatively hard and temperature stable substance. 7. A transmissive multiport star coupler, as recited in claim 6, wherein said housing 16,82 has mating and complementary top and bottom portions 84, 80 which are provided with a longitudinally extending passageway 86 therethrough, the inside diameter of said passageway on the ends 88 thereof being selected to be equal to the outside diameter of said spindles 12, 14 . 8. A method for fabricating a transmissive multiport star coupler 10 , characterized in that it comprises steps of obtaining a plurality of preselected lengths of optic fibers 74 stripping the buffer coating from said optic fibers 74 at a selected region along their lengths by chemical and physical means to expose the cladding inserting respective ones of said fiber optic cables 74 at spaced apart points therealong into corresponding slots 72 symmetrically disposed on first and second support spindles 68,70 applying tension to the lengths of cables 74 extending between said spindles bonding each of said tensioned fiber optic cables 74 in corresponding slots 72 in respective ones of said spindles 68,70 rotating said spindles 68,70 to twist said cables 74 each over the other in a local region intermediate said spindles heating said cables 74 in said local region of said twist to fuse said cables together moving said spindles 68,70 one away from the other to pull said cables 74 longitudinally apart a preselected distance to form a fused biconical taper star coupling 77 in said region and mounting said spindles 68,70 in a housing 16,82 to provide stress relief for, environmental protection of, and additional support to said fused biconical taper coupling 77 to form a transmissive multiport star coupler assembly 10 .

## Description
This invention is drawn to the field of optics, and more particularly, to a novel transmissive multiport star coupler assembly and method. Some optical communication systems employ transmissive multiport star couplers as part of a local transition network used to effect data transfer locally between selected network terminals over fiber optic paths. In may applications, several hundred and more network terminals are thereby controllably interconnected.The transmissive multiport star couplers utilized in such systems are called upon to provide not only a high order of network terminal handling capability but also a minimization of excess power loss therethrough. The star couplers available at present are large devices having a parallelogram shape. The input and the output fibers either are generally bunched together or are in a flat pack arrangement. This fabrication approach, however, leads to micro bending of the fiber structures which results in both undesirable excess loss values and a restricted network handling capability. The novel transmissive multiport star coupler of the present invention provides a high order of network terminal handling capability by symmetrically arranging and bonding the optic fibers to first and second spaced apart stress relief supporting spindles and by forming a coupling between the several optical fibers at a point intermediate the spindles. A minimization of excess loss between the input and the output ports of the coupler is provided by a spindle geometry that substantially reduces micro bending.The method of forming the coupling of the novel multiport star coupler of the present invention includes the steps of cpntrollably rotating the spindles to twist the optic fibers extending therebetween, applying heat to the region of the twist to fuse the fibers each onto the others, and controllably pulling the spindles apart along their longitudinal axes for forming a fused biconical taper coupling. A housing half shell is bonded to the spindle supported fused biconical taper coupling for providing additional stress relief and a mating and complementary housing half shell is provided for environmental protection.The method of fabricating the multiport transmissive star coupler of the present invention permits high volume manufacturing of high qual ar couplers at a comparatively low cost that are eargsterized by comparatively small size, rugged constt ion, and good performance. The spindles and the housing are formed from a hard and relatively tempera ture e resinous, thermoplastic such as Lexan, or a metallic substance. All types of optical glassfiber are usable such as multi mode, step index, graded index, and single mode fibers. Coated fibers may be utilized as well.The transmissive multiport star couplers of sent the present invention can have from 2 X 2 to N X N port a The invention will become better understood by referring to the following exemplary and nonlimiting detailed description of the preferred embodiment and to the drawings, wherein Fig. 1 is a perspective view, partially in schematic, of the transmissive multiport star coupler assembly of the present invention Fig. 2 shows in Figs. 2A and 2B an isometric view and shows in Fig. 2C a cross sectional view of a support and strain relief spindle subassembly of the transmissive multiport star coupler assembly of the present invention Fig. 3 shows a pictorial view of apparatus for practicing the steps of the method of fabricating the transmissive multiport star coupler assembly of the present invention Fig. 4 shows a pictorial view of the apparatus of Fig. 3 illustrating the steps of the method of fabricating the transmissive multiport star coupler of the present invention Fig. 5 is a cross sectional view of a housing subassembly of the transmissive multiport star coupler assembly of the present invention and Fig. 6 is an exploded perspective view of the housing subassembly of Fig. 5. Referring now to Fig. 1, generally shown at 10 is a transmissive multiport star coupler assembly of the present invention. The coupler 10 includes an input spindle subassembly 12 and an output spindle subassembly 14 which are fixably mounted to and sealed in a housing 16. A plurality of optic fibers 18, eight of which are illustrated, are symmetrically circumferentially bonded to the spindles 12 and 14 and have an optical mixing section generally designated 19 , preferably a fused biconical taper star coupling, in a region along their length between the spindles 12 and 14 and within the housing 16. Light energy present in one or more of the input ports 20 is optically mixed by the fused biconical taper coupling 19 and the energy thereof is split substantially equally into the output ports 22.Reference may be had to the articles entitled Bi taper Star Couplers With Up to 100 Fiber Channels by Rawson and Bailey, Vol. 15, No. 14 Electronics Letters 432 1979 Star Couplers Using Fused BiconicallyTapered Multi Mode Fibers by Rawson and Nafarrate,Vol. 14, No. 9 Electronics Letters 274 1978 , and to the article entitled Tapered Section of Multi Mode CladdedFibers as Mode Filters and Mode Analyzers by Ozeki, et al. Vol. 26, No. 7 Applied Physics Letters 386 1975 , incorporated herein by reference, for a description and discussion of experimentally derived physical parameters which characterize , inter alia, the optical mixing and energy splitting functions of the fused biconical taper coupling therein shown and described.It will,of course, be appreciated that although eight fibers are specifically illustrated herein, the novel transmissive multiport star coupler assembly of the present invention can accomodate from 2 X 2 toN X N ports. Referring now to Fig. 2A, a monolithic spindle subassembly generally designated 30 of the transmissive multiport star coupler assembly of the present invention includes a first region 32 formed to have a uniform cross section and a second region 34 formed to have a tappering cross section. The portion 32 is preferably cylindrical and the portion 34 is preferably a truncated cone. The monolithic spindle 30 is formed from any suitably hard and relatively temperature stable resinous, thermoplastic, or metallic substance such as texan, a registered trademark of the GeneralElectric company. By way of example, a spindle subassembly 30 having dimensions of approximately .20 inch in diameter by .38 inch in length can be used to fabricate couplers having from 3 X 2 to 8 X 8 ports with coated optical fibers having an outside diameter of from 100 to 600 microns and larger. The sections 32 and 34 of the unitary support spindle subassembly 30 are provided with a plurality of longitudinally extending slots therethrough generally designated 36. The number of the slots is selected to be equal to the desired order of the coupler. A spindle having eight slots corresponds to an exemplary 8 X 8 star configuration. Each of the slots 36 has a first region 38 of a comparatively large diameter adapted to accept the outside diameter of a strain relief jacket material in abutment with a second region 40 of comparatively smaller diameter adapted to accept the outside diameter of an optic fiber with cladding. The section 32 of the spindle subassembly 30 is provided with a central threaded bore 42 to be discussed. Referring now to Figs. 2B and 2C, which respectively show an isometric end view of the regions 32 and 34, the longitudinally extending slots 36 are symmetrically formed circumferentially about the spindle 30 and extend radially outwardly from a radial point 44 spaced from the longitudinal axis 46 of the spindle to the outer circumference.The dimensions of the radially outwardly extending slots are such as to permit ready insertion therein of optical fibers. The symmetric slot pattern has been found to provide a high packing density of input and output fibers in a comparatively small volume. The geometry of the regions 32 and 34 of the spindle 30 has been found to substantially reduce micro bending of in place optic fibers. Excess power losses are thereby kept to within desirable limits. Referring now to Fig. 3, generally designated at 50 is a pictorial view of apparatus used to practice the method of fabricating the transmissive multiport star couplers of the present invention. Apparatus 50 includes a first stepping motor 52 having a rotatable pinvise chuck 54. The motor 52 is fixably mounted to a support 56 having a support strut 58, such as an optical bench. A second coaxially aligned stepping motor 60 having a rotatable pinvise chuck 62 is mounted for translation to the base 56 by a motor driven X axis translation stage generally designated 64 over a support strut 65. The X axis translation stage 64 preferably includes a slide 66 driven horizontally by a motor 67 for controllably effect ing translation along the X axis.The central threaded bore of the input and output support spindles 68 and 70 is used to accept a short threaded stud, not shown, that is held by the notable pinvise chucks to permit easy release and removal of the studs. In operation, the spindles are rotated until respective ones of the symmetrically formed and circumferentially disposed radially outwardly extending slots 72 are each aligned along a common axis one with the other. A selected length of a preselected optic fiber 74 is then inserted into respective ones of the slots 72 on both the spindles 68 and 70. The buffer coating is chemically and physically stripped to expose the cladding in a region along the length thereof where the star coupling is to be formed. While a slight tension is applied to respective ones of the fibers, a suitable adhesive such as an epoxy is applied to bond each of the optic fibers 74 into corresponding slots 72 in both of the spindles 58 and 70.As can be seen in Fig. 4, the stepping motor 52 or 60 is then actuated to controllably rotate their respective shafts which rotate the spindles to wrap the optic fibers 74 one over the other to form a localized twisted region along their length intermediate to the two spindles.Typically, the stepping motor 60 is used to apply one half to one turn to the spindle 70 while the spindle 68 is held fixed. Heat preferably from the flame of a micro gas torch schematically illustrated at 76 in Fig.4, is then locally applied in the region of the twist to fuse the plurality of optic fibers one onto the other.The motor 67 is then actuated to effect a translation of the X axis translation stage 64 in a direction along the X axis such as to pull the spindles 68 and 70 apart to form a fused biconical taper star coupling 77 of the type described in the aforesaid articles. Referring now to Fig. 5, the star coupling subassembly consisting of the optic fibers respectively bonded in the slots of the support spindles and having the fused biconical taper coupling therebetween is then mounted before removal to one half shell 80 of a housing generally designated 82 for providing additional stress relief to the star coupling.The housing 82 has a mating and complementary half shell 84. The star coupling is then removed from the apparatus 50 and the process is repeated. It will be appreciated that the method of the present invention can be practiced manually, semi automatically, and automatically without departing from the inventive concept. Referring now to Fig.6, the housing 82 is provided with a Venturi shaped longitudinally extending passageway 86 therethrough having end regions 88 of enlarged cross section and a central region 90 intermediate the two end regions of comparatively smaller cross section. The housing 82 has a geometry complementary the geometry of the spindles and the inside diameter of the enlarged region 88 is selected to be substantially equal to the spindle outside diameter.Housing 80 may be fashioned from any relatively hard and temperature stable thermoplastic, resinous, or metallic substance. Lexan, including stabilizing materials as desired may be used for this purpose. It is to be understood that many modifications of the present disclosed invention can be effected without departing from the scope of the appended claims.