# High electron mobility semiconductor device.

## Abstract
A semiconductor device comprises an undoped GaAs layer 21 , an intermediate undoped layer 24 and an undoped Ga Use of such an intermediate layer as the channel layer improves the channels crystal quality and increases its possible thickness, thereby increasing the possible sheet density of the two dimensional electron gas, with respect to prior art devices. When applied to a high electron mobility transistor, this semiconductor device affords a high current and a high speed and has the merit of a small dispersion in the threshold voltage thereof.

## Claims
Claims A Asemiconductor device which comprises an undoped GaAs layer 21 , an intermediate undoped layer 24 and an undoped Ga Al As layer 3 stacked on a substrate 1 in this order, x in which said intermediate undoped layer 24 is an undoped In Ca As layer, or an undoped GaAs 1 z Sbz layer, or a super y l y z lattice layer formed by alternately stacking at least one undoped In Gal As layer and at least one undoped GaAs 1 z Sb layer, y 1 y z or a superlattice layer formed by alternately stacking at least one undoped In Ga As layer and at least one undoped y 1 y GaAs layer, or a superlattice layer formed by alternately stacking at least one undoped GaAs1 Sb and at least one undoped GaAs layer, wherein 1 x 0, 1 y 0, and 1 z 0. 2. The semiconductor device of claim 1, wherein said substrate 1 is a semiinsulating GaAs crystal. 3. The semiconductor device of claim 1 or 2, wherein the value of x is 0.1 to 0.5, and the value of y and z are 0.05 to 0.5. 4. The semiconouctor device of any of claims 1 to 3, wherein said intermediate undoped layer 24 is an undoped In Ga As y l y layer or an undoped GaAs 1 z Sb layer, and is 5 to 50 nm thick. 5. The semiconductor device of claim 4, wherein said intermediate undoped layer 24 is 10 to 20 nm thick. 6. The semiconductor device of any of claims 1 to 3, wherein said intermediate undoped layer 24 is one of said superlattice layers, and is 5 to 100 nm thick. 7. The semiconductor device of any of claims 1 to 6, including an n type Ga l x Al As layer 4 provided on said undoped Ga Al As layer 3 , a drain region 10 and a source region 9 which reach said undoped GaAs layer 21 located on said substrate 1 , and a drain electrode 8 , a source electrode 6 and a te electrode 7 , thereby constructing a field effect transistor.

## Description
Semiconductor DeviceBackground of the Invention The present invention relates to a semiconductor device which utilizes a two dimensional electron gas appearing at the heterojunction of compound semiconductors, and more particularly to a high electron mobility transistor. While miming at applications to a high speed computer and a high speed signal processing system, the developments of Is and ISIs crploying GaAs and TnP of high electron mobilities have been promoted. In particular, regarding a high electron mobility transistor hereinbelow, abbreviated to HEMT which exploits the high speed property of a two dimensional electron gas appearing at the heterojunction between GaAs and GaAlAs, InP and InGaAs, or the likes, it has become possible to fabricate one whose switching time per gate is 12 psec at the room temperature. Fig. la shows a sectional view of a typical HT. In the figure, numeral 1 designates a semiinsulatingGaAs substrate, numeral 2 an undoped GaAs layer of high purity which has a thickness of approximately 1 pm and a carrier density of at most 1014 cm 3, numeral 3 a Gal Al As layer x being about 0.3 which has a thickness of approximately 10 nm, numeral 4 an n Ga Al As layer x being about 0.3 which has a thickness of approximately 50 50 nuns and a carrier density of Cm numeral 5 a two dimensional electron gas layer which is induced at the heterojunction between the undoped GaAs layer 2 and the undoped Ga1 xAlxAs layer 3 within the undopedGaAs layer, numeral 6 a source electrode in the case of fabricating a field effect transistor hereinbelow, written FET , numeral 7 a gate electrode, numeral 8 a drain electrode, numeral 9 a source, and numeral 10 a drain. Semiconductor crystals for such HEIST are prepared by a molecular beam epitaxy method hereinbelow, written MBE method or an organo metallic vapor phase epitaxy method 0 vPE method . Fig. lb is an energy band structure diagram of the HEì1T shown in Fig. la. In each of Figs. lb, 2b and 3b, the axis of ordinates represents the level of energy, while the axis of abscissas represents the position of a corresponding semiconductor device in the depthwise direction thereof. In each figure, symbol EC denotes a conduction band, symbol EF a Fermi level, symbol Ev a valence band, symbol ES a channel, and symbol W a potential well. The other symbols denote parts similar to those in Fig. la. Since the two dimensional electron gas runs in the undoped GaAs layer 2 of high purity, such HEMT has a high mobility of at least 8000 cm sec at the room temperature and exhibits a large number of excellent characteristics such as the high speed property of the element. In the case of fabric sting the FET, however, the sheet density of the two dimensional electron gas is in the order of loll cm 2, and the two dimensional electron gas is confined within a thickness of only 10 nm from. the interface of the heterojunction, so that current to flow cannot be enlarged.This leads to the disadvantaoe cordon to rSTs that the high speed property of the element degrades in case of a large fan out. oreover, when the width L of the gate electrode diminisches to the order of submicrons, the threshold voltage Vth tends to lower due to the short channel effect. That is, as compared with a conventional GaAs FET MESFET , the ET is somewhat advantageous in the aspect of the high speed property of the element because electrons are confined the channel E5 in the triangular well W of the potential at the interface. However, when L becomes approximately 0.5 pm, the dispersion of Vth enlarges accordingly, which poses a serious problem. To the end of improving these drawbacks, a HEMT of double hetero structure as shown in Figs. 2a and 2b has been proposed. Fig. 2a is a sectional view of this HEMT, while Fig. 2b is an energy band structure diagram. In the respective figures, numerals 21 and 23 designate undoped GaAs layers, numeral 22 an undoped Ca l x Al As layer, and numeral 5 a two dimensional electron x gas layer which is induced in the undoped GaAs layer 23. The other symbols denote parts similar to those in Figs. la and lb. In this HEMT, the two dimensional electron gas layer 5 is held between the undoped Gal l x Al As layer 3 and the undoped Gal Gal Al As layer 22 provided on the substrate side, and electrons are confined in the potential well it formed by then.In this case, when the mol ratio x of AlAs in the undoped Gal Al As layer 22 is set at 0.1 0.3 necessary for the confinement of the electrons, the width of the potential well W of the undoped GaAs layer 23 held between the layers 3 and 22 will spread to about 20 nm by way of example.It is therefore expected that the sheet density of carriers will be permitted to increase near to double the past value, and that the short channel effect will lessen. In actuality, however, the electron mobility of the HEMT shown in Figs. 2a and 2b became lower than that of the device shown in Figs. la and lb for the reason in process that the undoped GaAs layer 23 grown on the undoped Ga1 xAlxAs layer 22 worsened in crystallinity or crystalline soundness. The following references are cited to show the state of the art i Official Gazette of Japanese Patent ApplicationLaying open No. 56 94780, ii Official Gazette of Japanese Patent Application Laying open No. 57 768 Summary of the Invention An object of the present invention is to provide a high electron mobility semiconductor device of new structure free from the difficulties of the prior arts described above. In order to accomplish the object, the semiconductor device of the present invention coprises an undopedGaAs layer, an intermediate undoped layer and an undoped Ga1 x As layer which are provided on a substrate in the order mentioned the intermediate undoped layer being an undoped In Ga As layer, an undoped GaAs Sb y l y z z layer, a superlattice layer which is formed by stacking at least one undoped In Gal As layer and at least one undoped GaAsl z Sbz layer, a superlattice layer which is formed by stacking at least one undoped In Gal As y l y layer and at least one undoped GaAs layer, or a superlattice layer which is formed by stacking at least one undoped GaAs l zSbz Sblayer and at least one undoped GaAs layer. z The values of i, y and mentioned above are set to be at most 1 and to be greater than 0. Owing to the above construction, a two dimensional electron gas is confined in the intermediate undoped layer. By utilizing the two dimensional electron gas as carriers contributive to the operation of the semiconductor device, it is possible to fabricate a FET, a CCD, etc. which operate at high speed. In the practicable form of the semiconductor device, for example, the FET, an n Eal awl as layer which is an n type semiconductor layer is formed on the aforementioned Gal awl as layer, and a source region, x a drain region, a source electrode, a drain electrode and a gate electrode are provided. The thickness of the aforementioned internediate undoped layer is set at 5 to 5G nm, preferably 10 to 20 nm. In a case where the thickness of the intermediate undoped layer exceeds the above range, the misfit dislocation arises and the electron mobility tends to lower, and in a case where it is less than the range, the quantity of confinement of the two dinensional electron gas decreases, so that both the cases are unfavorable. Besides, in the case where the intermediate undoped layer is the superlattice layer, a thickness up to 100 nm can be used. As stated before, the values x, V and z are not greater than 1 and are greater than 0. More preferably, the value x is set at 0.1 0.5, and the values v and z are set at 0.05 0.5. Crystals of Compositions whose values x, X and z fall within these ranges are convenient because the crystal growth is easy. The substrate is such that at least its surface for forming the undoped GaAs layer thereon permits the growth of a CcAs crystal and is made of a semiinsulating or insulating material. Usually, a semi insulating baAs crystal commercially available can be employed.Brief Description of the Drawings Fig. la is a sectional view of a typical HEMT in a prior art, while Fig. lb is an energy band structure diagram. of the HEMT shown in Fig. la Fig. 2 is a sectional view of an improved E T in a prior art, while Fig 2b is an energy band structure diagram of the HEìlT shown in Fig. 2a and Fig. 3a is a sectional view of a HEMT which is one embodiment of the present invention, while Fig. 3b is an energy band structure diagram of the HEMT shown in Fig. 3a. Description of the Preferred Embodiments The structure of a HEMT embodying the present invention is shown in Figs. 3a and 3b. Fig. 3a is a sectional view of the HEMT of the present embodiment, while Fig. 3b is an energy band structure diagram thereof. As shown in these figures, in the HEMT of the present embodiment, a two dimensional electron gas layer 5 is confined in the potential well W of an undoped In Ca As y 1 y layer y 0 24 approximately 20 nm wide, the layer 24 being an intermediate undoped layer which is held between the undoped GaAs layer 21 on the substrate side and the undoped Gal 1 xAlxAs 1 Aslayer x 0 3 on the front surface side. A the intermediate undoped layer, the undoped In Gal As layer 24 may well be replaced with y l y an undoped GaAs 1 zSbz layer z 0 , or at least one undoped In Gal As layer and at least one undoped GaAs Sb y l y 1 y z layer may well be provided in stacked fashion.It is also allowed to employ a superlattice structure which consists of the two layers of an undoped GaAs layer and an undoped In Ga As layer or the two layers of y l y an undoped GaAs layer and an undoped GaAs1 zSbz Sb layer. Further, the respective two layers mentioned above may well be provided in multistage fashion. The band gap difference between the undoped GaAs layer 21 and the ternary mixed crystal in Fig. 3a, the undoped InyGal yAs layer 24 becomes about 0.1 eV when y and z are about 0.1, and it becomes about 0.2 eV when y and z are about 0.2. The values are sufficient for forming the well. The structure shown in Fig. 3a can be readily fabricated using, for example, the molecular beam epitaxy under almost the same growth conditions as those of the priorart IT and by adding a vaporization crucible for In or Sb to a producing apparatus anew. Now, a method of manufacturing the HEIST of the present embodiment will be explained. 1. First, a semiinsulating Gas substrate 1 having the crystal orientation 4100 is inserted into an N E apparatus which is furnished with vaporization crucibles being the molecular beam sources of Ga, As, In, Al and Si. 2. er, the substrate is heated to approximately 630 0C to clean the surfaces thereof. 3. While the temperature of the substrate is held at approximately 600 OC, the shutters of the molecular beam sources of Ga and As are opened, and an undopedGaAs layer 21 having a thickness of approximately 1 pm is grown. In an example, the intensity ratio between the molecular beams Ga and As at that time was 1 2. Subsequently, the shutter of the molecular beam source of In is opened, and an undoped In yGa1 yAs As y layer 24 having a thickness of approximately 20 nm is grown. 5. Subsequently, the shutter of the miEcular bean source of In is closed, the shutter of the molecular beam source of Al is opened, and an undoped Gal awl as layer 3 having a thickness of approximately 10 nm is grown. 6. At the next step, the shutter of the molecular beam source of Si is opened, and a well known n Gal xAlxAs layer 4 having a thickness of approximately 100 nm is grown. 7. All the molecular beam sources except that of As have their shutters closed, and the substrate temperature is lowered. 8. An Au 12 wt. Ge alloy is evaporated on the regions of a source and a drain to a thickness of 0.2 jim and is heated at 450 0C for 3 minutes so as to give rise to thermal diffusion, whereby Au 12 wt. Ge is caused to permeate down to the undoped GaAs layer 21 until the source portion and the drain portion are alloyed. 9. A source electrode, a drain electrode and a gate electrode are provided. Then, the HEMT is finished up. Although, in the present embodiment, the electrodes are mounted directly on the n Ga l x Al x As layer 4, they are sometimes installed through insulator layers. In the example, the undoped In Ga As layer 24 y l y did not degrade in quality when grown on the undoped yor layer 21. As compared with an undoped GaAs layer, the layer 24 has the mobility slightly lowered by the alloy scattering, but the lowered component is, in effect, canceled by increasing the sheet electron density and a raised speed can be achieved as an IC. This undoped In Ga1 yAs layer 24 has a lattice constant greater than that of the underlying undoped GaAs layer 21 or the overlying undoped Gal xAlxAs layer 3, and hence, when it is too thick, a misfit dislocation arises at the interface. In this regard, the occurrence of the dislocation was not observed up to a thickness of 20 nm.The above facts were similar when an undoped GaAs 1 z Sbz Sbwas used z in place of the undoped In Ga As layer 24. y 1 y Besides, in a case where the undoped In Ga As y l y layer 24 as the intermediate undoped layer was replaced with undoped In Ga As layers or undoped GaAs Sb y As l y z layers alternating with undoped GaAs layers, each of the layers being about 5 nm thick, the misfit dislocation did not arise up to a total thickness of 100 nm, and the effectve sheet density could be increased more. Since the electron mobilities of high purity GaAs,In As and GaSb at the room temperature are about 8500, 33000 and 5000 cmê V.sec respectively, it is needless to say that the mixed crystal GaIn As is more advantageous than Ca AsSb as the material of the layer 24 in Fig. 3a for confining the two dimensional electron gas layer 5 . In general, a HEMT of higher speed can be realized in case of employing In Ca As than in case of employing y l y GaAs, but the mobilities of InGaAs and GaAs are not considerably different for 0 y 0.25. For y 0.3, the mobility rises substantially rectilinearly toward the value of InAs, but the lattice misfit increases, too.Therefore, it is more desirable to dispose InGaAs or GahsSb alternately with undoped GaAs. In Figs. 3a and 3b showing the present er bodiment, symbols not referred to above correspond to those in the other figures. As compared with the prior art HEMT, the HEXT obtained in accordance with the present embodiment afforded a greater current value, a higher speed, and a smaller dispersion of the threshold voltage Vth. Further, degradation in quality attributed to an inferior crystallinity or crystalline soundness was not observed. While the foregoing is the application to the FET, the present invention is also effective for other elements utilizing the characteristics of the two dimensional electron gas, such as a CCD Charge Coupled Device . In the semiconductor device of the present invention, matters not described in this specification may be resorted to previous knowledge in the technical field concerned. Obviously many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in the light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.