# Racquet frame with tapered thickness.

## Abstract
The invention provides a racquet or a frame for a racquet having a stringable head and a handle, which are suitable for use in playing squash, tennis and other sports. The racquet or frame for the racquet is characterized in that the thickness of the racquet or frame, as herein defined, tapers downwardly over at least a portion of the length of the head in a direction away from the handle. The thickness is the dimension measured between the front and back faces of the frame of the racquet at any given point.

## Claims
The claims defining the invention are as follows 1. A racquet consisting of a frame having a stringed head and a handle characterised in that the thickness of the frame tapers downwardly over at least a portion of the length of the head in a direction away from the handle. 2. A racquet as claimed in Claim 1 in which the thickness of the frame tapers downwardly from the widest part of the head to or adjacent the part of the head distal to the handle. 3. A racquet as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2 in which the thickness of the racquet tapers downwardly towards that part of the head distal to the handle over the whole length of the head. 4. A racquet as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3 in which the thickness of the frame tapers downwardly from a point on the handle to or adjacent the part of the head distal to the handle. 5. A racquet as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4 in which the width of the frame tapers downwardly from the widest part of the head to or adjacent the part of the head distal to the handle. 6. A racquet as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 4 in which the racquet is constituted. of carbon fibre reinforced plastics material. 7. A racquet as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 4 in which the head is constituted of carbon fibre reinforced plastics material. 8. A racquet as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 6 in which the thickness of the frame constituted by the head is reduced by from 5 to 20 of its maximum value between the points having the maximum and minimum thicknessesu 9. A racquet as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 7 in which the thickness of the frame constituted by the head is reduced by from 9 to 15 of its maximum value between the points having the maximum and minimum thicknesses. 10. A frame for a racquet having a stringable head and a handle characterised in that the thickness of the head of the frame tapers downwardly over at least a portion of the length of the head in a direction away from the handle. 11. A frame as claimed in claim 10 in which the width of the frame tapers downwardly from the widest part of the head to or adjacent the part of the head distal to the handle. 12. A frame as claimed in Claim 10 or claim 11 in which the frame is const Atuted of carbon fibre reinforced plastics material. 13. A frame as claimed in Claim 10 or claim 11 in which the frame consisting of the head is constituted of carbon fibre reinforced plastics material. 14. A frame as claimed in any one of Claims 9 to 13 in which the thickness of the frame constituted by the head is reduced by from 5 to 20 of its maximum value between the points having the maximum and minimum thicknesses. 15. A frame as claimed in any one of Claims 9 to 14 in which the thickness of the frame constituted by the head is reduced by from 9 to 15 of its maximum value between the points having the maximum and minimum thicknesses. 16. A racquet or a frame for a racquet substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to Figs. 1, 2 and 3 of the accompanying drawings.

## Description
The preset invention relates to racquets, adapted for playing sports such as tennis, squash and badminton, having a stringed head and a handle, and to frames for such racquets. It is well known that racquets, and particularly squash racquets, are susceptible to breakage during use. This problem was present with wooden racquets but has become more pronounced since the introduction of carbon fibre reinforced plastics racquets. Initially breakage was experienced most commonly in the head region at the point distal to the handle of the racquet. Since better constructional techniques have been developed this problem has been at least in part overcome however breakages are now being experienced most commonly on either side of the head of the racquet. The present invention has discovered that a racquet having adequate strength characteristics while preserving a satisfactory feel and a pleasing appearance may be produced if the thickness of at least a portion of the head of the racquet tapers downwardly in a direction away from the handle of the racquet. The present invention consists in a racquet having a stringed head and a handle characterised in that the thickness of the racquet tapers downwardly over at least a portion of the length of the head in a direction away from the handle. A further embodiment of the present invention consists in a frame for a racquet, having a stringable head and a handle, the frame being characterised in that the thickness of the head of the frame tapers downwardly over at least a portion of the length of the head in a direction away from the handle. As used in this specification the thickness of the head of the racquet is the dimension measured between the front and back faces of the frame of the racquet at any given point. The advantage of the present construction lies in the fact that it allows the strength of the racquet head to be increased towards the handle thereof without detracting from the feel of t racquet. This feel is believed to rely in part on the flexibility of the portion of the head distal to the handle. The tapered section of the racquet head preferably commences at least at the widest part of the head and continues away from the handle to or adjacent the part of the head distal to the handle. If desired a greater portion of the head may taper and in the extreme case the head tapers over its whole length. It is also within the scope of this invention that at least a portion of the handle additionally tapers in thickness. The present invention is particularly applicble to racquets formed in whole or at least in the head portion of carbon fibre reinforced plastics material which are commonly referred to as graphite . It could however also be applied with advantage to racquets of the traditional wooden construction or to metal racquets. While the exact dimensions of the racquet will depend upon the sport for which it is designed it is desirable that the thickness of the head of the racquet be reduced by from 5 to 20 of its maximum thickness between its thickest and thinnest points, more preferably the reduction is of the order of 9 to 15 . If desired the dimension between the radially inner side of the head and the radially outer side of the head, exclusive of the bumper strip hereinafter called the frame width, may also change along the length of the head of the racquet. Preferably the frame width will decrease gradually, i.e. taper downwardly, from at least at the widest part of the head in a direction away from the handle of the frame, to the part of the head distal to the handle. Hereinafter given by way of example only is a preferred embodiment of this invention described with reference to the accompanying drawings in which Fig. 1 is a face elevational view of a squash racquet frame according to this invention Fig. 2 is an edge elevational view of the squash racquet frame of Fig. 1, and Figs. 3A, 3B, 3C, 3D and 3E are respectively cross sectional views of the squash racquet frame of Fig. 1 taken along lines A A , B B , C C , D D and E E . The racquet frame 10 comprises a handle 11 and a head 12. The head 12 is formed with a plurality of holes 13 to receive strings. The racquet 10 is formed of carbon fibre reinforced plastics material and has a hollow interior. The racquet frame 10 is of a constant thickness, i.e.the distance between the faces 14 and 15 of the racquet france 10, of 14 mm along the full length of the handle and up to the shoulders of the racquet closely adjacent the connecte between the handle 11 and the head 12. At the point marked Y in Fig. 2 the thickness of the racquet commences to taper downwardly to the end of the head distal to the handle where the racquet has a thickness of only 12.0 mm. The racquet frame 10 is of substantially ovate cross sectional shape along its length except in the hand grip portion in which it is of square section and adapted t receive a separately formed hand grip not shown and adjacent the end of the head of the racquet distal to the handle. In this latter region the racquet is of substantially C chaped cross section such that the strings will be recessed below the outer extremity of the racquet 2nd. thus protected from damage should the head of the racquet be inadvertently struck against a wall of the court.