# Liquid dispensing taps.

## Abstract
A tap for fitting into a socket 10 attached to a box and with a frangible diaphragm 11 is formed of only two parts. The outer part 15 clips into the socket 10 and has a spout 19. The inner or valve part 16 has an end formed to pierce the diaphragm and has a re entrant back fitting over an exten sion to the part 16. A detent 25 engages in a groove on the extension and the groove is formed with various ramps to block movement. The detent moves among three positions. Between the first and second positions it follows a quick thread. Between the second and third positions it moves circumferentially. Either of the second or third positions can coincide with the opening of the valve. In another embodi ment the third and first positions are the same so that the valve opens and closes as a result of a screwing action.

## Claims
Claims 1. A tap for use with a bag in the box system, the tap comprising a tubular body 15 formed at one end with a spigot 17 which can clip tightly into a socket on the bag, a transverse aperture 19 leading from the interior of the body 15 , an extension 23 on the body 15 at the other end beyond the transverse aperture 19 , a valve member 16 which is a tight fit in the bore Qf the tubular body 15 and which is in engagement with the extension 23 so that on rotation of the member 16 it moves axially along the bore of the body 19 between a first position in which the inner end 21 of the valve member 16 , formed as a diaphragm piercing tool, is free of the diaphragm and a second position in which that end 21 is in a position piercing the diaphragm, the valve member 16 also being movable between the second and a third position, in one of which liquid can flow through the transverse aperture 19 and in the other of which the valve member 16 seals off the transverse aperture 19 . 2. A tap as claimed in claim 1, in which the first and third positions coincide and the aperture 19 is opened and closed by axial and rotary movement of the valve member 16 . 3. A tap as claimed in claim 1, in which the return of the valve member 16 to the first position is blocked and the third position is attained by a rotary movement of the valve member. 4. A tap as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3. in which the valve member 16 and the extension 3 have interengaging detent and groove formations. 5. A valve as claimed in claim 4, in which the groove formation is on the extension 23 and the detent formation on the valve member 16 . 6. A tap as claimed in claim 4 or 5, in which the first and third positions coincide, the aperture 19 is opened and closed by axial and rotary movement of the valve member 16 and the groove formation is part of a coarse thread. 7. A tap as claimed in claim 4 or 5, in which the groove formation is part of a quick thread between the first and second positions and is circumferential between the second and third positions. 8. A tap as claimed in any of claims 4 to 7, in which the groove formation has a lead in to the first position with a ramp for the detent to pass before reaching the first position, the lead in being circumferential. 9. A tap as claimed in claim 4, 5, or 7, in which the groove formation has a ramp prior to thesecond position so that return to the first position is blocked. 10. A tap as claimed in claim 3, in which the aperture 19 is closed when the valve member 16 is in the second position and open when it is in the third position. 11. A tap as claimed in claim 3. in which the aperture 19 is open when the valve member 16 is in the second position and closed when it is in the third position.

## Description
LIQUID DISPENSING TAPS BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTIN THIS invention relates to liquid dispensing taps of the kind used in bag in the box systems.In one known system of the kind in question a beverage is contained in a bag to which there is secured a gland mounting on the side of the box containing the bag. At the base of the gland there is a frangible diaphragm. For dispensing the beverage, a tap is inserted into the gland. The tap carries a piercing stem which upon such insertion breaks the diaphragm so that the tap tas access to the liquid in the bag. Known taps of the kind in question are made of a number of parts in excess of two.It is an object of the invention to provide a tap consisting of only two parts.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONFor use with a bag in the box system as described above the invention provides a tap comprising a tubular body formed at one end with a spigot which can clip tightly into a socket on the bag, a transverse aperture leading from the interior of the body, an extension on the body at the other end beyond the transverse aperture, a valve member which is a tight fit in the bore of the tubular member and which is in engagement with the extension so that on rotation of the member it moves axially along the bore of the body between a first position in which the inner end of the valve member, formed as a diaphragm piercing tool, is free of the diaphragm and a second position in which that end is in a position piercing the diaphragm, the valve member also being movable between the second and a third position, in one of which liquid can flow through the transverse aperture and in the other of which the valve member seals off the transverse aperture.The first and third positions may co incide, in which case the aperture is closed by axial and rotary movement of the valve member. In tjhe preferred form of the invention return to the first position is blocked and the third position is attained by a rotary movement of the valve member.Further according to the invention the valve member and the extension have interengaging detent and groove formations usually the groove will be on the extension and the detent on the valve member. Where the first and third positions co incide, the groove is part of a coarse thread.Where the aperture is opened and closed by rotary movement only, the groove is a part of a quick thread between the first and second positions and circumferential between the second and third positions. In both cases there may be a lead in to the first position with a ramp for the detent to pass before reaching the first position, the lead in being circumferential. With rotary closure, there is a ramp prior to the second position so that return to the first position is blocked.DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGSFigure 1 is a section through a first embodiment showing a tap installed on a socket Figure 2 is a developmental section on the line 2 2 in Figure 1 Figure 3 is a double section through a second and preferred embodiment Figure 4 is a view of the rear end of the extension andFigure 5 is a view similar to Figure 4 of another arrangement. DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTSIn the embodiment of Figures 1 and 2 there is a gland 10 of the known system with a frangible diaphragm 11. In use the gland 10 is secured to a bag and a box is engaged with the neck 12 of the. gland.The tap provided by the present invention has two parts, a body 15 and a valve member 16. The body 15 is formed with a stepped bore and has a spigot end 17 which fits in the gland 10. An aperture 19 leads from the bore of the member 15 to a dispensing nozzle 20.The valve member 16 is formed with a diaphragm piercing end.21 and an operating head 22 which passes over an extension 23 on the body 15. The outside of the extension 23 is formed with. a quick thread 24. The head 22 is formed with a projection 25 in engagement with the thread 24.At each of the start and the end of the thread 24 there is a notch with a detent shoulder 26 see Figure 2 . With the projection 25 in a notch the head 22 can only be turned after overriding a shoulder 26 with sufficient force.In use a gland 10 is installed in a box attached to a bag with the tap composed of the two parts 15 and 16. When one wants to dispense from the bag, the head 22 is turned to override the shoulder. 26 so that the end 21 pierces the diaphragm 11. At that point the aperture 19 is sealed by the valve member 16. To get liquid from the. bag, the head 22 is turned in the reverse direction until the liquid flows from the nozzle 20.The preferred embodiment of Figures 3 to 5 differs from the first embodiment in a number of ways. It will be seen that the body 15 fits into the gland 10 in a different way, but that is not relevant to the present invention.One major difference is that the valve member 16 is tubular almost to its end and terminates in four piercing formations 30. This construction ensures that the patch of diaphragm cut out does not form a flap which can obstruct the flow of liquid through the tap. As a result the member 16 is formed with an aperture 31 which can register with the aperture 19 when the valve is open.Another difference is that the projection 25 runs in grooves as illustrated in Figure 4 or Figure 5. The grooves have an entry 40 past which the projection 25 must be forced. Then there is a run in 41 ending in a ramp 42. After the ramp 42 there is an inclined groove portion 43 also ending in a ramp 44. After the ramp 44 there is a circumferential groove portion 45.The tap is assembled by pressing the member 16 into the body 15 in which it is a light interference fit allowing rotation of the member 16 but preventing leakage of liquid between the members. To effect assembly the member 16 is positioned with the projection 25 in register with the entry 40. Axial movement of the member 16 engages the parts. Rotary movement of the member 16 causes the projection 25 to come up against the ramp 42.When the member 16 is force rotated, the projection 25 passes over the ramp 42 into the groove portion 43. Combined axial an rotation movement brings the projection 25 against the ramp 44. The application of an axial force brings the projection 25 into the groove 45 along which it moves on rotation of the member 16. With the projection 25 at the end 46 of the groove 45, the apertures 31 and 19 are in register in Figure 4 and the tap is open. With the projection 25 at the ramp 44 the tap is closed.With the arrangement of Figure 4 air trapped inside the tap may pass into the bag. To prevent thisb the embodiment of Figure 5 may be used. In this case as the proJection 25 passes the ramp 44, the apertures 31 and 19 are in register and at soon as liquid comes from the nozzle 20, the member 16 may be rotated clatkwise to close off flow. Counterclockwise rotation leÅadB to 1t uid bbit sensed from the tap.