# A food quality improving agentcontaining vital gluten.

## Abstract
Disclosed is a food quality improving agent containing PL or vital gluten as en essential ingredient and one or more adjuvants selected from phospholipase A, gum, vital gluten wherein the bound monoacyl glycerophospholipid content of the bound phospholipid is less than 30 mol , ascorbic acid, monoglyceride, soybean lecithin, whey protein, soy bean protein, sodium caseinate, citric acid, succinic acid, α amylase and β amylase.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A food improving agent comprising as an essential ingredient vital gluten, said vital gluten having either i a bound phospholipid content of 2 w w or more and a bound monoacyl glycerophospholipid content in the bound phospholipid of more than 30 mol and less than 50 mol or ii a bound phospholipid content of 0.5 w w or more and a bound monoacyl glycerophospholipid content in the bound phospholipid of 50 mol or more, characterised in that the improving agent additionally contains, in admixture with said vital gluten, one or more of the following phospholipase A, gum, vital gluten wherein the bound monoacyl glycerophospholipid content of the bound phospholipid is less than 30 mol , ascorbic acid, monoglyceride, soybean lecithin, whey protein, soybean protein, sodium caseinate, citric acid, succinic acid, a amylase or amylase. 2. A food improving agent according to claim 1, characterised in that it contains one or more of said additives in the following amounts, said amounts being expressed as parts by weight per hundred parts of said vital gluten phospholipase A 1000 u g 0.01 5 vital gluten, bound phospholipid content less than 30 mol 5 70 ascorbic acid 0.1 0.5 gum 0.5 monoclyceride 0.1 10 soybean lecithin 0.1 10 whey protein . 1 30 soybean protein . 1 30 sodium caseinate 0.1 1 citric scid 0.1 1 succinic acid 0.1 1 a amylase 10000 u g 0.1 1 or ss amylase 10000 u g 0.1 1 3. A food improving agent according to claim 1 or 2, which contains as said additive, or one of said additives, xanthan gum or locust bean gum. 4. A food improving agent according to claim 1, 2 or 3, additionally containing, per 100 parts by weight of said vital gluten L lysine hydrochloride 0.1 10 parts L proline 0.1 10 parts and or sodium lactate 0.5 10 parts 5. A flour dough, or a baked product thereof, containing flour to which has been added a vital gluten containing improving agent, characterised in that the improving agent is an agent as claimed in any one of claims 1 4. 6. A flour dough, or baked product, according to claim 5, characterised in that the improving agent is present in an amount of from 0.1 to 10 , based on the weight of the flour used to make the dough. 7. A flour dough, or baked product, according to claim 6, characterised in that the amount of improving agent is from 0.5 to 3 , based on the weight of the flour used to make the dough.

## Description
A FOOD QUALITY IMPROVING AGENT The present invention relates to a food quality improving agent containing a specified vital gluten and adjuvants. It is well known that the production of high quality bread greatly depends on the amount and quality of gluten contained in flour. The qualities of flour commercially available in the market are different according to brands or makers and also seasonal or production year s change. In the bread production field, dough improving agents prepared by mixing emulsifiers, enzymes, vital gluten and the like are widely used in order to obtain good quality bread when such flour as the main raw material is used. The present invention provides a food quality improving agent containing A a vital gluten hereinafter referred to as PL gluten having a bound phospholipid content of 2 w w or more and a bound monoacyl glycerophospholipid content in the bound phospholipid of more than 30 mol and less than 50 mol or PL gluten having a bound phospholipid content of 0.5 w w or more and a bound monoacyl glycerophospholipid content in the bound phospholipid of 50 mol or more and B at least one member selected from the group consisting of phospholipase A, yum, vital gluten wherein the bound monoacyl glycerophospholipid content in the bound phospholipid is less than 30 mol commercially available gluten , monoglyceride, soybean lecithin, whey protein, soybean protein, sodium caseinate, citric acid, succinic acid, a amylase and ss amylase. The food quality improving agent has an effect of decreasing the mechanical damage of dough and improving the quality texture, specific volume, staling degree, etc. of the final product. The PL gluten is a vital gluten having a bound phospholipid content of 2 w w or more and a bound monoacyl glycerophospholipid content in the bound phospholipid of more than 30 mol and less than 50 mol or a vital gluten having a bound phospholipid content of 0.5 w w or more and a bound monoacyl glycerophospholipid content in the bound phospholipid of 50 mol or more.A detailed description concerning the PL gluten is given in European Publication No. 0134658 85 published on March 20, 1985. Methods for producing PL gluten are described hereinafter PL gluten is obtained by adding phospholipase A hereinafter referred to as PL A to flour wheat flour in the ratio of 102 104 units per 1 kg of flour, further adding water thereto and kneading to form a mixture by a conventional method, and then washing the kneaded mixture with water to remove starch and the like. Also, PL gluten is obtained by treating a mixture prepared by adding phospholipid to flour and PL A in the same way as described above, or by converting phospholipid into phospholipid having a high content of monoacyl glycerophospholipid withPL A and adding the phospholipid in the PL gluten producing process to bind the phospholipid to gluten protein. Phospholipid is added in an amount of 0.1 10 based on flour. As the gums, xanthan gum, locust bean gum, etc.can be used. The amount of each adjuvant in the food quality improving agent based on 100 parts of PL gluten is as follows PL A 1000 u g 0.01 5 parts gum 0.5 5 parts vital gluten wherein the bound monoacyl glycerophospholipid content in the bound phospholipid is less than 30 mol commercially available gluten 5 70 parts ascorbic acid 0.1 0.5 parts monoglyceride or soybean lecithin 0.1 10 parts whey protein or soybean protein 1 30 parts sodium caseinate, citric acid, succinic acid, a amylase 10000 u g or amylase 10000 u g 0.1 1 part. If necessary, the following adjuvants may also be supplemented. L lysine hydrochloride 0.1 10 parts L proline 0.1 10 parts, and sodium lactate 0.5 10 parts. Among adjuvants mentioned above, for example, when PL A is used in an amount of less than 0.01 part, the effect by PL A is not achieved and when PL A is used in an amount of 5 parts or more, PL A provides a stench to a product since PL A has a peculiar smell originated from pancreatin. When gum is used in an amount of less than 0.5 parts, the effect of decreasing the mechanical damage of dough is almost never observed and when gum is used in an amount of 5 parts or more, for example, in case of bean iam bread, the shape is not good.When ascorbic acid is used in an amount of less than 0.1 part, the effect of decreasing the mechanical damage of dough is almost never observed and specific volume of a product becomes small and when ascorbic acid is used in an amount of 0.5 parts or more, elasticity of dough becomes bad, further specific volume of product becomes small and inner state of a product becomes bad. When amylase is used in an amount of less than 0.1 part, softness and relative staleness of a product become bad and when amylase is used in an amount of 1 part or more, non stickiness and elasticity of dough become bad. In the production of bread, doughnuts, noodles, and Chinese dumplings such as won ton and gyoza, the amount of the food quality improving agent of the present invention to be added is 0.1 10 , preferably, 0.5 5 , based on the amount of flour included in the raw materials. The addition of the food quality improving agent to the raw materials improves the workability especially, elasticity of the dough and also the quality of the final product texture, specific volume, and staling degree . Certain specific embodiments of the invention are illustrated by the following representative examples.Example 1 In this example, a food quality improving agent l was obtained by uniformly mixing 100 kg of PL gluten obtained in Reference Example 1 and the same shall apply hereinafter and 0.5 kg of Pt A 500,000U by a blender. In a flour milling plant, the food quality improving agent l was added to ordinary flour crude protein 8.5 , ash 0.40 obtained by grinding domestic wheat in an amount of 1 based on the flour to obtain quality improved flour l. Then raw noodles containing much water were prepared under the following composition and production condition and boiled in boiling water for 13 minutes. The result of evaluation thereof is shown inTable 1.Composition of Raw Noodles Containing Much Water Quality improved flour l 10000 g Solution of table salt Baume degree 100 4300 g Production Condition Kneading by a kneader at low speed, 30 min. Floor time 30 min. Dividing, rounding 2 kg ball Bench time 60 min. Rolled and a cutter 3 m m thick, edge No. 12 for noodles As control, noodles were obtained in the same manner as described above except using ordinary flour crude protein 9.0 , ash 0.458 instead of the quality improved flour l. The result of evaluation is shown in Table 1. Table 1 Rate of loss in elution Texture Taste NoteNoodles made of 9.0 5 4 Soft and quality improved elastic flour lControl 9.5 4 4 Ordinary Evaluation 5 very good, 4 good As is apparent from Table 1, noodles according to the present invention have the soft and elastic texture when compared with the control to show the improvement of quality. Example 2 In this example, a food quality improving agent 2 was obtained by uniformly mixing 100 kg of PL gluten, 1 kg of PL A 1,000,000 u and 5 kg of L lysine hydrochloride by a blender. In a flour milling plant, the food quality improving agent 2 was added to noodle flour Semi hard flour crude protein 10.5 , ash 0.42 in an amount of 2 based on the flour to obtain the quality improved flour 2. Then, bread loaf was obtained under the following dough composition and production condition.Production Condition Sponge fermentation 25 280C, 4 hours Floor time 20 min. Bench time 17 min. Proofing 38 400C, 50 min. Baking 200 C, 35 min.Sponge Composition Quality improved flour 2 7000 g Yeast 200 g Yeast food 10 g Water 4000 cc Ammonium chloride 30 w w Calcium carbonate 10 Calcium primary phosphate 5 Amylase 0.2 Corn starch 54.8 The same composition is used hereinafter. Dough Composition Quality improved flour 2 3000 g Sugar 500 g Table salt 200 g Shortening 500 g Water 2500 ccControl 1 Bread was obtained in the same manner as described above except using the flour prepared by adding 2 of commercially available Vital Gluten Canada, lGP gluten to the noodle flour Semi hard flour , instead of the quality improved flour 2. The result of evaluation is shown in Table 2.Control 2 Bread was obtained in the same manner as described above except using the flour prepared by adding 2 of PL gluten to the noodle flour Semi hard flour instead of the quality improved flour 2. The result of evaluation is shown in Table 2.Control 3 Bread was obtained in the same manner as described above except using the noodle flour Semi hard flour instead of the quality improved flour 2. The result of evaluation is shown in Table 2. Control 4 Bread was obtained in the same manner vs described above except using the noodle flour Semi hard flour instead of the quality improved flour 2. The result of evaluation is shown in Table 2. Table 2 Bread made of Control quality im Item proved flour 2 1 2 3 4Dough Physical Properties Elasticity 4 5 4 4 2 Extensibility 5 4 5 4 2 Non stickiness 4 4 4 3 2 Moldability 5 2 4 4 2Product Qualities Specific volume 5.65 5.41 5.50 5.13 5.02 Appearance 5 4 4 3 2 Inner state 4 3 4 3 2 Texture 5 3 4 3 2 Relative staleness 70 89 81 90 100 Relative staleness Measured by using Baker s com pressimeter and each value was determined by considering that of control 4 as 100. Evaluation mark 5 very good 4 good 3 ordinary 2 slightly poor The following tables have the same definition as to the above evaluation marks The product of the present invention was superior to controls 1 4 in respect of the physical properties of dough and product qualities.Example 3 In this example, a food quality improving agent 3 was obtained by uniformly mixing 100 kg of PL gluten, 1 kg of PL A 1,000,000 u and 1 kg of Amylase 10,000,000 u by a blender. In a flour milling plant, the food quality improving agent 3 was added to graham flour coarse powder in an amount of 5 based on the flour to obtain a qualityimproved graham flour 3. Then, graham bread was obtained under the following composition and production condition. The result of evaluation is shown in Table 3.Sponge Composition Quality improved graham flour 3 6000 g Yeast 250 g Yeast food 15 g Glycerol fatty acid ester 20 g Calcium stearyl lactilate 30 g Water 4000 cc Dough Composition High gluten first flour 4000 g Sugar 800 g Table salt 230 g Shortening 500 g Skim milk 300 g Malt extract 30 g Water 2000 ccProduction Condition Sponge fermentation 23 240C, 4 hr. Floor time 20 min. Bench time 18 min. Proofing 400C, 50 min. Baking 200 C, 25 min. As control 1, graham bread was obtained in the same manner as described above except using the graham flour prepared by adding 5 of commercially availableVital Gluten Canada lGP gluten to the graham flour, instead of the quality improved graham flour 3. As control 2, graham bread was obtained in the same manner as described above except using the graham flour instead of the quality improved graham flour 3. The result of evaluation is shown in Table 3. Table 3 Specific Inner volume Appearance state Texture NoteBread made of 4.50 5 5 5 Texture the quality is soft improved graham flour 3Control 1 4.40 5 4 4 Texture is slightly soft Control 2 4.30 3 3 2 Not voluminous As is apparent from Table 3, the graham bread obtained in the present invention is superior to controls 1 and 2 in respect of volume, inner state and texture.Example 4 In this example, dough was produced by the method of using sponge and dough method containing sugar, and bean jam was wrapped with the dough by Rheone 207 type incrusting machine. The result is shown in Table 4.Composition Sponge Flour 2100 g 70 Sugar 120 4 Yeast food 3 0.1 Yeast 105 3.5 Improving agent A 0 or 90 0 or 3 Water 1170 or 1290 39 or 43 Dough Flour 900 g 30 Sugar 630 21 Table salt 24 0.8 Whole eggs 240 8 Shortening 180 6 Water 210 7 Composition of food quality improving agent A 1 2 3 PL gluten 75 75 60 Commercially available gluten 22.8 22.8 27.8 Ascorbic acid 0.2 0.2 0.2 Xanthan gum 1.5 2 2 Locust bean gum 0.5 0 0Process Sponge mixing temperature 25 C Fermentation 270C, 150 min. Dough mixing temperature 280C Floor time 45 min. Punching 45 sec. Rheone punch machine Wrapping bean jam by Rheone 207 type incrusting machine Proofing 380C, RH 85 , 50 min. Baking 2100C, 8 min. Table 4 State of 1 dought whenTest wrapping Specific 2 group Additives bean jam volume Grain 1 Softness 1 I Flour only 3.64 II Quality impro 4.00 ving agent A 1 III n A 2 3.95 IV A 3 3.85 V PL gluten 3.80 t VI Commercially 3.72 available gluten 1 poor, ordinary, good, very good 2 Specific volume After the bean jam bread was baked and allowed to stand overnight, the specific volume was measured by the same method as used in bread. The ratio of bean jam and dough was 1 1 in weight. As is apparent from Table 4, when bean jam bread was prepared by Rheone 207 type incrusting machine, the dough improving agent containing PL gluten test groupsII V improved the volume, appearance and grain of bean jam bread. Such effect could be obtained by using PL gluten alone test group V to some extent but was more remarkably increased by using additives such as gums in combination with the agent. On the contrary, the addition of the commercially available gluten only brought about the less effect.Example 5 In this example, bean jam yeast doughnuts were prepared by the straight method using Rheone 207 type incrusting machine. The result is shown in Table 5.Composition Flour 3000 g 100 Sugar 390 13 Table salt 27 0.9 Shortening 240 8 Skim milk 60 2 Yeast food 3.6 0.12 Baking powder 75 2.5 Quality improving agent B O or 60 0 or 2 Composition of quality improving agent B B l B 2 B 3 PL gluten 75 60 60 Commercially available gluten 22.8 27.8 37.5 Ascorbic acid 0.2 0.2 0.2 Xanthan gum 2 2 2 Soybean protein 0 10 0 B amylase 0 0 0.3 Table 5 State of dough 1 Test when wrapping Specific Oil absorbing group Additives bean jam volume rate 8 2 I Flour only 1.92 10.8 II Quality improving 2.36 7.5 agent B l III B 2 2.38 6.8 IV a B 3 2.41 7.7 V PL gluten 2.20 8.0 VI Commercially 2.05 7.7 available gluten 1 poor, t ordinary, good, very good 2 Oil absorbing rate Weight after fried Weight before fried x 100 Weight before fried As is apparent from Table 5, the quality improving agent containing PL gluten test groups II IV improved not only the state of dough and the volume of product but also the oil absorbing rate which is quite important for the good quality of doughnuts in the case of bean jam doughnuts as well as in the case of bean jam bread Table 4 . In this regard, the single use of the commercially available gluten test group VI showed the insufficient effect of improving the specific volume and the oil absorbing rate. Reference Example 1 In this Reference Example, to 400 ml of a 15 w w aqueous dispersion of purified soybean lecithin SLP White, product of True Lecithin Co., Ltd. was added calcium chloride to a concentration of 20 mM. Further, 1200 mg 504 units of PL A was added thereto, and the mixture was allowed to react at pH 9.0 at 55eC for 2 hours to obtain a modified phospholipid dispersion wherein the content of monoacyl glycerophospholipid is 75 mol . Then, 100 ml of the modified phospholipid dispersion and 1000 g of commercially available vital gluten EmasoftEx 100, product of Riken Vitamin Co., Ltd. were mixed with stirring and the mixture was lyophilized and pulverized into a powdery gluten. Further, to the powdery gluten was added 100 ml of the modified phospholipid dispersion, and mixed with stirring. The mixture was lyophilized and pulverized into a powdery gluten. The above mentioned procedure where to the resultant powdery gluten was added 100 ml of the modified phospholipid dispersion and powdered through lyophilization was repeated further two times. Totally, 400 ml of the modified phospholipid was added.The bound phospholipid content of the vital gluten thus obtained was 3.5 w w and the bound monoacyl glycerophospholipid content was 68 mol .