# Process for laminating heat shrinkable films.

## Abstract
A heat shrinkable laminate is made by pressing together between calender rolls two heat shrinkable films with, between the films, a coating of a curable polyurethane adhesive formed by blending a liquid polyol or polyester with a liquid isocyanate and with microcapsules enclosing a hardening accelerator and then pressing the films together between calendar rolls, thereby rupturing the capsules and accelerating the hardening of the adhesive.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process in which a heat shrinkable laminate is made by pressing together between calendar rolls two heat shrinkable films with, between films, a coating of a curable polyurethane adhesive formed by blending a liquid polyol or polyester component with a liquid isocyanate component and curing the adhesive, characterised in that the coating of adhesive includes microcapsules that enclose a hardening accelerator and the capsules are ruptured by the pressing between the calendar rolls. 2. A process according to claim 1 in which the amount of microcapsules is from 0.5 to 5 by weight of the polyurethane adhesive. 3. A process according to claim 1 in which the hardening accelerator is dibutyltin dilaurate, dibutyltin maleate, dioctyltin dilaurate, dioctyltin maleate or dioctyltin isooctylthioglycolate.

## Description
Process for Laminating Heat Shrinkable Films In recent years there have been major developments in composite flexible packaging materials, including the provision of heat shrinkable laminated films. One way of producing a heat shrinkable laminate is by using an adhesive to adhere the films. The lamination may be a dry lamination process in which event the adhesive may be the so called two liquid type polyurethane adhesive system. This system comprises a liquid curable polyurethane adhesive formed by blending a liquid polyol or polyester component with a hardening component which comprises a liquid isocyanate component. Unfortunately the two liquid type polyurethane adhesive system has a number of disadvantages for laminating heat shrinkable films. One disadvantage is that the adhesive hardens slowly and so it is necessary to provide an ageing step in the production process.Thus after bringing the films together with the adhesive between them it is necessary to age the laminate at an elevated temperature of from 35 to 500C to permit completion of the hardening. The rate of hardening depends upon the ageing conditions and the ageing conditions influence the adhesive strength between the heat shrinkable films in the laminate. If the adhesive strength is inadequate the laminate may be subject to deficiencies known as tunnelling or delamination. Another problem is that because of toxicity considerations aliphatic polyurethanes are now replacing aromatic polyurethanes as the adhesive, but aliphatic polyurethanes require even longer for hardening and ageing than aromatic polyurethanes. For instance with aliphatic polyurethanes it may be necessary to age the laminate for three to four days. In the invention a heat shrinkable laminate is made by pressing together between calendar rolls two heat shrinkable films with, between the films1 a coating of a curable polyurethane adhesive formed by blending a liquid polyol or polyester component with a liquid isocyanate component and curing the adhesive, and the method is characterised in that the coating of adhesive includes microcapsules that enclose a hardening accelerator and the capsules are ruptured by the pressing between the calendar rolls. Thus in the invention at least one of the facing surfaces of the films is coated with a mixed solution of the so called two liquid type polyurethane adhesive and this adhesive coating may have substantially conventional coating and curing properties, at this stage of the process. However the coating includes microcapsules of a hardening accelerator and theses microcapsules are broken by the roll pressure exerted by the laminating rolls to release the hardening accelerator, which then accelerates the hardening. Thus by the invention it is possible to combine relative stability of the two liquid adhesive, during coating, with very rapid hardening due to the presence of the hardening accelerator. The two liquid adhesive may be formed in conventional manner by blending conventional liquid polyol or polyester component with a conventional liquid isocyanate component. The hardening accelerator may be any material that can be encapsulated in microcapsules and that will beneficially accelerate the hardening of the two liquid adhesive. Preferably the accelerator is a tin compound for instance, dibutyltin dilaurate, dibutyltin maleate, dioctyltin dilaurate, dioctyltin maleate and dioctyltin isooctylthioglycolate. The capsules preferably have a diameter in the range 3 to 50 ssm. They may be made by conventional means, usually coacervation. Examples of suitable materials as the wall membrane of the microcapsules include urethane resin, urea resin, melamine resin, phenol resin, epoxy resin, polyamide resin and gelatin, singly or in combination. The two liquid type polyurethane adhesive, formeu by blending the two reactive components of the final cured polyurethane, generally has dispersed into it from 0.5 to 5 by weight of the described microcapsules. The composition may contain sufficient solvent, in conventional manner, to render it coatable. The adhesive is generally coated on one only of the facing surfaces that are to be laminated, for instance using a reverse coater, kiss coater or gravure coater, and after drying the thus coated film by passage through a drying tunnel, the thus dried film is superposed on the uncoated surface of the other heat shrinkable films that is to be laminated. The superposed films are passed through a pair of combining rolls, whereby the microcapsules in the thus coated adhesive agent are broken by the roll pressure to release the accelerator from the microcapsules.The released accelerator contacts directly with the adhesive agent to complete rapidly the hardening of the adhesive agent between the heat shrinkable films. The laminated films may be wound up as a roll and left at room temperature, and so there is no need to age at elevated temperature for prolonged periods. Examples of heat shrinkable films that may be used in the present invention include single plies of polyvinylidene chloride, nylon and polyethylene referred hereinafter to as PE , and composite multi layered films comprising polyolefine referred hereinafter to as PO , polyvinylidene chloride hereinafter referred to asPVDC , and PO. Preferably the heat shrinkable films are subjected to corona discharge treatment before laminating for improving the achesive strength. As a result of the invention it is possible to reduce or eliminate the warm ageing step and so the p css is much quicker and more convenient to perform.ThE risk of delamination due to insufficient hardening is reducecl or eliminated. The risk of uneven adhesive strength due to variations in the ageing conditions and hardening rate is minimised or eliminated. The invention is of particular value when applied to films that are liable to lose their heat shrinkability if they are maintained warm during the ageing step. The following is an example of the invention and a comparative example. Microcapsules containing the hardening accelerator were prepared as follows. h prepolymer of urea formaldehyde resin was obtained by mixing 300g urea and 730g of an aqueous 37 solution of formaldehyde with 3g triethanolamine and reacting the mixture for 60 minutes at 700C. A liquid mixture was obtained by mixing lOOg of this prepolymer with 20g of an aqueous 38 solution of a water soluble cationic urea resin brand Uramine P 1500, trade mark, prepared byMitsui Toatsu Co.Ltd. , lOOg of water and log of an aqueous 10 solution of triethanolamine. After adjusting the pH of the liquid mixture to 5.2 by adding an aqueous 10 solution of citric acid, 3g of an aqueous 10 solution of sodium alkylbenzenesulfonate Neoperex, trade mark, made by Kao Atlas Co.Ltd. was added to the mixture. The resultant liquid mixture was emulsified in a homogeniser with l,OOOg dibutyl tin dilaurate until the droplet size of the emulsion was in the range 2 to 8 m diameter. The aqueous emulsion was gently stirred whilst raising the temperature to 500C and the pH was adjusted to 2.8 by the addition of aqueous 10 citric acid.After stirring for 1 hour the emulsion was cooled to room temperature and upon continuing stirring for a further 10 hours a slurry of microcapsules was obtained. The slurry was filtered using a membrane filter and the collected microcapsules were washed with water and dried in a hot air drier at 38 C, to provide 210g powdry microcapsules. A two liquid type polyurethane adhesive was formed by blending 10.38kg of a polyurethane adhesive component brand LX 63F, made by Dainippon Ink Co.Ltd. and 0.48kg of commercial hardening agent brand KP 90, made byDainippon Ink Co.Ltd. in ethyl acetate, with a solids ratio of 12 1. 56.25g of the microcapsules, dispersed in ethyl acetate, were added to the two liquid adhesive to form a uniform dispersion and the concentration of solid matter in the dispersion was adjusted to 25 by weight by the addition of ethyl acetate. Three different laminates were formed with polyethylene PE film 20 Fm in thickness, namely laminates with 20 ijm PVDC, 25 m nylon and 25 m of a composite film comprising, in order, PO PVDC PO. Each of the PVDC, PO PVDC PO and nylon films were coated on one surface at a coating speed of 30 to 90 m min and at a coating amount of 3 g m2 with the thus prepared adhesive agent containing the microcapsules using an ordinary gravure coater, and the thus coated films were dried through a drying tunnel at 60 C at a speed of 60 m min. Thereafter, each of the thus treated films was adhered onto a PE film of 600 mm width while using a pair of combining rolls of a dry laminator under a roll pressure of 4.5 to 5 kg m3 G at a nip temperature of 6O0C to obtain each of the composite laminated films. According to microscopical observation of the coated film after drying and before laminating, and of the laminated film after passing through a pair of the combining rolls, the microcapsules containing the hardening accelerator had been completely broken after passing through the pair of combining rolls. After leaving the thus prepared laminated film in a state of a rolled film at room temperature for a predetermined time period, the physical properties thereof were determined and the results are shown inTable 1.Comparative Example In the same manner as in Example except for using the adhesive agent not containing the above mentioned microcapsules containing the hardening accelerato three kinds of laminated films were prepared and after leaving the thus produced laminated films at room temperature for the same time period as in Example, the physical properties thereof were determined. The results are shown also in Table 1. As will be seen in Table 1, each of the three kinds of laminated film produced while using the microcapsules containing the hardening accelerator in the two liquid type adhesive agent is superior to each of the three kinds of laminated films produced without using the microcapsules containing the hardening accelerator in view of 1 adhesive strength, 2 heat shrinking property, 3 not showing any tunnelling phenomenon and 4 not showing any haze phenomenon.The results show the superiority of the process according to the present invention to the conventional process of not using the microcapsules containing the hardening accelerator. Table 1 EMI7.1 tb SEP CI tb SEP v tb SEP LI tb SEP E SEP hChA SEP m tb SEP C SEP ro SEP Ln tb SEP SEP ar tb SEP Films SEP laminated SEP PVDC SEP film SEP and SEP PE SEP film SEP omposite SEP fi1m1and SEP PE SEP film SEP Nylon SEP film SEP and SEP PE SEP film tb SEP Use SEP of SEP microcapsules SEP Yes2 SEP No SEP 3 SEP Yes SEP No SEP Yes SEP No tb cr tb SEP ChAA SEP m tb SEP E SEP 0 CP9 SEP cl SEP E tb SEP ri SEP m SEP 0000 SEP 0 SEP co tb SEP I SEP Q SEP 0000 SEP o SEP Z tb SEP cu SEP 1 SEP A SEP V SEP Ln SEP n tb SEP 0 tb SEP Z, SEP .. SEP SEP . SEP tb SEP E SEP JJ tb SEP hCh tb SEP 24 SEP hours SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP Ln tb SEP 0 SEP 0000 SEP E SEP a, tb SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP s SEP E SEP Q SEP tb SEP 48 SEP hours SEP Z SEP o SEP m SEP o SEP o SEP lls SEP lp SEP l5oo SEP l5oo tb SEP cl SEP I tb SEP rC SEP r tb 1 SEP al tb SEP SEP tb SEP rl tb SEP E tb SEP rfcr SEP aJ tb SEP W SEP s SEP r SEP er SEP crz tb 3 SEP Tunneling SEP r SEP a, tb SEP o SEP m SEP 0000 SEP e tb after SEP SEP for SEP 24 SEP None SEP Yes SEP None SEP Yes SEP None SEP Yes tb SEP SEP SEP J SEP 4 SEP N SEP Z tb SEP 0 tb tb U SEP . tb to tb SEP E SEP C tb SEP ,4 SEP SEP uy SEP r SEP E SEP uZ tb SEP W SEP 1 SEP o SEP In SEP o SEP o SEP U SEP X SEP o tb SEP O SEP o SEP N SEP In SEP o SEP SEP s SEP tb SEP X SEP Z SEP H SEP fa tb SEP H SEP RS SEP er SEP r SEP CD tb SEP qq SEP SEP O SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP SEP O tb SEP QJ SEP O SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP SEP C SEP ur tb SEP a SEP SEP O SEP z tb SEP rt SEP SEP SEP O SEP SEP 3 SEP S SEP S tb SEP 1 SEP SEP w SEP E SEP v SEP k SEP t SEP h tb SEP SEP m SEP mM SEP W SEP C SEP 0N H SEP NsH tb SEP g SEP tgl SEP commat SEP Cd SEP U SEP commat SEP C SEP U SEP U tb SEP commat SEP ffi SEP t1 SEP C SEP 3 SEP S SEP t58 1 SEP 0 SEP kJ SEP St4 tb SEP 4 SEP Z SEP SEP k SEP ffi SEP h SEP v SEP k SEP k SEP v W SEP . SEP S SEP SEP u SEP o SEP C tb SEP td SEP t SEP S4 SEP 4 SEP X SEP O SEP h SEP z SEP w SEP d SEP w SEP H tb SEP n SEP O SEP commat SEP m SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP SEP tb SEP ,1 SEP z SEP ffi SEP X SEP z SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP SEP a SEP U SEP bÓ SEP SEP Ó tb SEP s SEP O SEP O SEP OJ SEP FE SEP h SEP SEP i SEP SEP C SEP o SEP SEP C SEP o tb SEP i SEP i SEP h SEP SEP 8 SEP Q SEP b SEP SEP 0 SEP t SEP S SEP H SEP SEP a SEP i SEP d SEP m SEP SEP m tb SEP H SEP E SEP z SEP SEP o SEP C SEP N SEP v SEP verbar SEP H SEP N SEP N tb SEP m SEP I SEP g SEP O SEP O SEP Z SEP tb SEP 0 SEP q4 SEP SEP commat SEP X SEP commat SEP H SEP U SEP a SEP X SEP X tb SEP g SEP O SEP Z SEP Ss SEP Z SEP k SEP Z SEP Z SEP o SEP SEP H SEP Z SEP N SEP SEP e tb SEP 0 SEP U SEP 5 SEP 4J SEP O SEP h SEP k SEP SEP tb SEP I SEP rD SEP I SEP SEP 1 SEP 44 SEP D SEP es SEP E SEP t tb SEP X SEP X SEP tn SEP as SEP commat SEP k SEP S tb SEP 3 SEP SEP SEP E SEP t4 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP tb SEP SEP SEP S SEP SEP Nv1 SEP U SEP e SEP mv SEP O SEP tv SEP O tb SEP A SEP ffi SEP SEP SEP Z SEP z SEP U SEP S tb SEP C tb Notes to Table 1 1 Composition of the composite film a PO film, a PVDC film and a PO film in the order. 2 Yes means the use of the microcapsules dispersed in the adhesive agent Example . 3 No means that the microcapsules were not used Comparative Example . 4 The laminated film was broken at the indicated stress. 5 The laminated film was exfoliated at the indicated stress between dry laminated surface s . 6 A B means that the longitudinal shrinkage was At and the transversal shrinkage was B . 7 Haze according to ASTM D 1003 61.