# CONTROL SYSTEMS FOR RECOMBINANT MANIPULATIONS

## Claims
Übertragbare regulierbare Kontrollkassette für die Expression eines heterologen Proteins in Prokaryonten, wobei die Kassette von einem Vektor erhältlich ist, der unter der Nummer ATCC39831 hinterlegt wurde, oder ein funktionelles Äquivalent davon ist, mit einer ersten DNA Sequenz, die der P

## Description
The present invention relates to aspects of recombinant DNA technology concerned with providing control systems for expression. More particularly, the invention relates to a convenient temperature sensitive control cassette. Alteration of the genetic makeup of a host cell is the modus operandus of current biotechnology. By suitable modification, such host cells may be caused to produce protein sequences normally unavailable in large quantity, for example, the fibroblast or leukocyte interferons or their metabolism may be altered so as to induce them to perform some unaccustomed function such as, for example, the conversion of starch to simple sugar. In order to perform these new protein syntheses, the cells must be 1 made to take up the desired coding sequence and 2 be provided with control sequences which are compatible with the host in operable linkage to the coding sequences. Means must be provided to evaluate the success of both of these requirements. The present invention provides an improved control sequence cassette subject to such evaluation. The dominant selectable marker described herein provided a useful tool to obtain the highly efficient temperature sensitive control cassette of the invention. Control sequences are conveniently provided as portable cassettes which could be shuttled between plasmids to precede protein encoding sequences at will. Such portable sequences are, in fact, known in the art. For example, the trp promoter operator system, including its ribosome binding site and some leader sequence codons, has been described in detail Goeddel, et al, In addition to the convenience of a portable sytem, however, it is also required that the control system be regulatable by control of external parameters. Because bacterial hosts are often called upon to produce proteins which ore not endogenous, premature production of these proteins during the growth phase of the culture may have an adverse effect on the health of the host cells. In order to obtain healthy growth, as well as a good quantitative protein production, it may be necessary to repress the expression of the desired gene during the growth phase of the culture, and then to permit expression after the growth phase has been substantially completed. The presently available portable promoter systems, while subject to such control, are imperfect in their degree of attainment. For example, the above mentioned trp promoter is regulated in response to the presence or absence of tryptophan in the medium. The promoter is turned on in the absence of tryptophan, but repressed in its presence. Neither a complete on or off position is attainable with such a promoter, however. For most bacteria, the indigenous repressor gene does not provide sufficient repressor to interact completely with the desirable higher levels of promoter coding sequence constructs present on multi copy plasmids within the cell. Conversely, since many proteins, desired to be synthesized, themselves contain tryptophan, it is not possible to delete tryptophan entirely from the medium when they are to be produced. Even approximate control is troublesome as medium exchange is often required to change the tryptophan level sufficiently. The λ phage promoter, P By employing the selectable G418 resistance marker, the exquisitely regulatable P The present invention provides a cassette DNA sequence having convenient restriction sites at both 5 and 3 ends to provide ready portability, and having control elements for protein synthesis which are easily regulated by simple manipulations. The sequence contains the P Thus in one aspect, the invention relates to a DNA sequence comprising the P In another aspect, the invention relates to a DNA sequence comprising the P In other aspects, the invention relates to a method for producing a desired protein in recombinant host cells which comprises culturing the above mentioned transformants and recovering the protein produced. In other aspects, the invention is directed to a method of constructing expression vectors which comprises ligating the P The accompanying Figure shows the construction of pFC54. P P Cleavage within n bp of a given location requires that at least one of the two strands be so cleaved. As is known, most restriction enzymes catalyze cleavage in a jagged pattern, the cleavage site in one strand being separated by several bp from the cleavage site in the complementary strand. To fit the herein definition, only one of such sites needs to be within the required h bp. The vectors containing the cassette of the invention may or may not contain a cleavage site as described above. Depending on the protocol for ligation of the cassette into a recipient vector, the site may or may not be lost. N IL 2 refers to proteins having sequence homology with, and the functionality of, interleukin 2. Proteins having the precise sequence of native IL 2 are included, as well as sequences containing sequence modifications which do not destroy activity. In the illustration set forth below, a modification or mutein having a serine residue rather than a cysteine at position 125 is used. Operably linked refers to constructions wherein the components so described are juxtaposed in such a way as to permit them to function in their intended manner vis a vis each other. Thus, a promoter operably linked to a coding sequence refers to a promoter which is capable of effecting the transcription of the desired coding sequence. Polyadenylation signal or terminator is intended to include whatever is required in these sequences, not to be limited simply to this particular function. This definition is necessitated by the current state of knowledge in the art, wherein the relevance of sequences in addition to the polyadenylation signal is unclear. Recombinant host cell refers to a cell which has been transformed with DNA sequences which have been manipulated by recombinant techniques. Cells and cell culture are used interchangeably where the context so permits, and these terms include the progeny of any specific cells referred to. Thus, these terms refer to cells whether separated from or suspended in the medium and whether living or dead. These terms thus include progeny of an original transformed cultures, which progeny may differ by mutation from the parental cells. Three vector plasmids which are included in the invention, and which provide a convenient source for the P Both cloning and expression vectors for desired sequences were constructed using the below described commonly employed restriction and ligation procedures. Additional plasmids, analogous to those illustrated, can also be constructed using these methods, which are well known in the art, by utilizing alternative replicons, vector fragments, control sequences, coding sequences, polylinkers, and expression cassettes. In general, the quantity of DNA available can be increased by cloning the desired fragments, i.e., inserting into a suitable cloning vehicle, such as pBR322, transforming and replicating in Transformations in the examples below were performed using the calcium chloride method as described by Cohen, S.N., Construction of suitable vectors containing the desired coding and control sequences employs standard ligation and restriction techniques which are well understood in the art. Isolated plasmids, DNA sequences, or synthesized oligonucleotides are cleaved, tailored, and religated in the form desired. Site specific DNA cleavage is performed by treating with the suitable restriction enzyme or enzymes under conditions which are generally understood in the art, and the particulars of which are specified by the manufacturer of these commercially available restriction enzymes. See, e.g., New England Biolabs, Product Catalog. In general, about 1 µg of plasmid or DNA sequence is cleaved by one unit of enzyme in about 20 µl of buffer solution in the examples herein, typically, an excess of restriction enzyme is used to insure complete digestion of the DNA substrate. Incubation times of about one hour to two hours at about 37 C are workable, although variations can be tolerated. After each incubation, protein is removed by extraction with phenol chloroform, and may be followed by ether extraction, and the nucleic acid recovered from aqueous fractions by precipitation with ethanol followed by running over a Sephadex G 50 spin column. If desired, size separation of the cleaved fragments may be performed by polyacrylamide gel or agarose gel electrophoresis using standard techniques. A general description of size separations is found in Restriction cleaved fragments may be blunt ended by treating with the large fragment of Synthetic oligonucleotides are prepared by the triester method of Matteucci, et al Ligations are performed in 15 30 1 volumes under the the following standard conditins and temperatures 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5, 10 mM MgCl₂ In vector construction employing vector fragments, the vector fragment is commonly treated with bacterial alkaline phosphatase BAP in order to remove the 5 phosphate and prevent religation of the vector. BAP digestions are conducted at pH 8 in approximately 150 mM Tris, in the presence of Na and Mg ² using about 1 unit of BAP per µg of vector at 60 for about one hour. In order to recover the nucleic acid fragments, the preparation is extracted with phenol chloroform and ethanol precipitated and desalted by application to a Sephadex G 50 spin column. Alternatively, religation can be prevented in vectors which have been double digested by additional restriction enzyme digestion of the unwanted fragments. In the constructions set forth below, correct ligations for plasmid construction are confirmed by transforming Two host strains were used in cloning and expression of the plasmids set forth below However, when expression is under control of the procaryotic P The mtAPH I gene was used as a convenient marker for the construction of a P The BglII site immediately preceding the P To obtain a plasmid containing desired EcoRI Hind III cassette containing P Accordingly, pDG144 was digested with HindIII, blunt ended with Klenow and dNTPs, and then digested with EcoRI. The vector fragment was ligated with the above prepared EcoRI HinfI repaired fragment and transformed into MC1000 39531. Amp An alternative vector to provide the promoter RBS cassette, pFC5, uses the lac Z fusion flag as a marker for successful construction. pβI Z15, deposited 13 January 1984, ATCC No. 39578, was prepared by fusing a sequence containing ATG plus 140 bp of β IFN fused to lac Z into pBR322. In pβI Z15, the EcoRI site of pBR322 is retained, and the insert contains a HindIII site immediately preceding the ATG start codon. pβI Z15 was restricted with HindIII, repaired with Klenow and dNTPs, and then digested with EcoRI. The resulting EcoRI HindIII repaired vector fragment was ligated with the EcoRI HinfI repaired fragment above. The ligation mixture was used to transform MC1000 39531 and Amp pFC5 or pP The P To prepare pBW20, pBR322 was digested with HindIII, repaired with Klenow and the four dNTPs, then digested with PvuII. The vector fragment was then ligated in a standard blunt end ligation with the self complementary dodecamer TATGAGCTCATA, which contains a SacI recognition site partially overlapping and downstream from the ATG sequence. The ligation mixture was transformed into To prepare pP One cloned colony containing the correct construction, pP pDG141, deposited in the ATCC on 24 January 1984 and given accession number 39588, can also provide the ATG for the P The following examples illustrate one aspect of the invention by describing the construction of expression vectors suitable for production of IL 2 and the successful expression of the appropriate coding sequences. IL 2 and its modified forms are members of a class of proteins designated lymphokines which are useful in therapy directed against deviant cell metabolism. Of course, any desired peptide could be analogously produced by providing the appropriate coding sequence in a manner analogous to that illustrated for production of IL 2. Further, rather than the P Native IL 2 is a 133 amino acid sequence with an alanine at its N terminus. For expression in procaryotic systems, the codons of the leader sequence in the native gene are replaced by an ATG, resulting in production of protein having a methionine residue at the N terminus. In the paragraphs below, a 133 amino acid modified IL 2 sequence with N terminal methionine, lacking the native N terminal alanine, and containing serine at position 125 designated herein IL 2 des ala, ser125 is produced under control of the cassette of the invention. Alternate IL 2 constructions employing this cassette, such as that set forth in paragraph H.3, or constructions involving other forms of IL 2 can, of course, be made. pFC54 is an expression vector for a modified form of IL 2 wherein the cysteine at position 125 has been replaced by a serine residue IL 2 des ala, ser125 . It is constructed using pFC5 as a source of the P pLW46 contains the coding sequence for a mutein IL 2 des ala, ser125 as a unique HindIII BanII fragment. This plasmid transformed into pLW46 was digested to completion with PvuII to cleave the unwanted fragment , HindIII and BanII. pFC8 was also digested to completion with HindIII and BanII. The digests were mixed 4 1 molar ratio, 50 µg ml DNA , ligated under sticky end conditions, and the mixture 100 ng DNA was used to transform MC1000 39531 to Amp pFC54 transformed into pCS4 was constructed from pCS3, a plasmid containing a temperatue sensitive high copy number replicon, by replacing the smaller EcoRI BamHI digest fragment from pCS3 with an EcoRI XhoII digest fragment which contains the trp promoter βIFN coding sequence obtained from the plasmid p 1trp3 4 1 which was deposited with ATCC 30 March 1984 and has accession no. ATCC 39646. pCS3 was deposited with ATCC 3 June 1982 and has accession no. ATCC 39142. pFC54 was transformed into An IL 2 sequence having 134 amino acid residues, differing from that above by the presence of an alanine residue immediately after the methionine encoded by an ATG start codon the normal N terminus in the native sequence can be obtained in a manner exactly analogous to that set forth in the previous illustration. The coding sequence for this protein, designated herein IL 2 ser125 is obtained as a HindIII BanII fragment containing the coding sequence from pLW55. pLW55 in MC1000 39531 was deposited with the ATCC 18 November 1983 and given accession number 39516. The resulting plasmid containing the temperature sensitive high copy number replicon from pCS4 and the P Transformation of pFC53 into The following plasmids have been deposited at the American Type Culture Collection, Rockville, Maryland, U.S.A. ATCC under the terms of the Budapest Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the Purposes of Patent Procedure and Regulations thereunder Budapest Treaty and are thus maintained and made available according to the terms of the Budapest Treaty. Availability of such strains is not to be construed as a license to practice the invention in contravention of the rights granted under the authority of any government in accordance with its patent laws. The deposited plasmids have been assigned the indicated ATCC deposit numbers. The plasmids have also been deposited with the Master Culture Collection CMCC of Cetus Corporation, Emeryville, California, U.S.A., the assignee of the present application, and assigned the indicated CMCC deposit numbers