# FEMTO DIODE AND APPLICATIONS

## Abstract
The quantum regime and its properties are described and applied in the invention of a diode, termed a Femto Diode, responsive to light frequencies. In the quantum regime the conventional concepts of electrical resistance, resistive loss, and capacitance do not apply. The Femto Diode of this invention comprises a submic ron metal cylinder acting as a potential well for an energetic electron with an assymetric tunnel junction at one end and reflecting step at the other end. The energetic electron is produced by the absorption in the metal cylinder of an energy quanta ν such as a photon in the visible light range. The energetic electron travels back and forth without colli sion or energy loss in its own conduction band within the potential well until it passes through the junction whereup on its kinetic energy is converted to electrical potential energy at a greater voltage on the other side of the junction. This forward current is proportional to the input rate of energy quanta but the reverse current is limited by a tunnel junction comprising new and novel materials and dimen sions. A first terminal is attached to the metal cylinder to provide electrons to replace those which pass through the junction and a second terminal is attached to the metal on the other side of the junction. The Femto Diode of this device has applications in diverse fields such as light to electric power conversion, an electric power to light laser, high speed computers and communications which are disclosed.