# CORRUGATED ELLIPTICAL WAVEGUIDE OR HORN

## Claims
Wellenleiter mit einem Hybridmoden Anregungselement mit Riffelstruktur und mit elliptischem Querschnitt zum Durchleiten von elektromagnetischer Energie, wobei das Element mit in Längsrichtung beabstandeten, parallelen Riffelungen versehen ist, wobei die Zähne der Riffelungen eine Innenellipse und die Nuten der Riffelungen eine Außenellipse definieren,

## Description
The present invention relates generally to corrugated elliptical waveguides or horns, and specifically to the determination of the depth of corrugation grooves of the waveguides or horns. No definite design methods have hitherto been available to determine the depth of corrugation grooves of a corrugated elliptical waveguide or horn to excite a balanced hybrid mode, and the depth determination was based generally on the concept that a balanced hybrid mode exists when the corrugation grooves have a depth in the range between 1 4 to 1 2 of a wavelength in the free space. One disadvantage of this prior method is that the balanced hybrid mode is not perfect and this imperfection caused even the most perfectly adjusted waveguide or horn to generate cross polarizations by as much as 30 dB with respect to the main polarization. As a result, the prior art waveguide or horn when mounted on a broadcasting satellite as the primary radiator of a reflector antenna has experienced difficulties in meeting the cross polarization limits set by the World Administrative Radio Conference on Broadcasting Satellites 1979 known as WARC BS 79 . The depth determination by experiments will involve solving an infinite number of possible combinations of odd modes excitations on the major axis of ellipse and even modes excitations on the minor axis of the ellipse . Accordingly, an object of the present invention is to provide a corrugated elliptical waveguide medium having a perfectly balanced hybrid excitation mode. The corrugated elliptical waveguide medium of the present invention relates to a corrugated hybrid mode excitation member having an elliptical transverse cross section for propagation of electromagnetic energy therethrough, said member being provided with longitudinally spaced parallel corrugations with teeth of the corrugations defining an inner ellipse and grooves of the corrugations defining an outer ellipse according to the precharacterising of claim 1 and known as such from Electronic Letters, vol 15, no 20, Sept. 1975, pages 652 654. The object of the invention is attained by the features of the characterising portion of Claim 1. The present invention will be described in further detail with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 1 is an illustration of the longitudinal cross section of a corrugated elliptical waveguide comprising a balanced hybrid mode excitation member 4 with an elliptical cross section of constant size over its length. Waveguide member 4 is formed with longitudinally spaced, parallel corrugation teeth 3a and corrugation grooves 3b. Grooves 3b have a width w and are arranged with a pitch p . An inner ellipse 1 described by the inner circumference of the corrugation teeth 3a defines an inner boundary with the free space and an outer ellipse 2 described by the outer circumference of the corrugation teeth, or bottom of the corrugation grooves 3b, defines an outer boundary with the free space. The longitudinal cross sectional view of a corrugated elliptical horn is shown at Fig. 2. This elliptical horn comprises the hybrid mode excitation member 4 and a corrugated elliptical transition member 5 connected thereto. The transition member 5 has a cross section increasing linearly as a function of distance from the hybrid mode excitation member 4, the corrugations of the transition member 5 being identical to the corrugations of the excitation member 4. Figs. 3a and 3b are illustrations of the balanced even and odd hybrid modes, respectively. In these figures, the arrows indicate the directions of electric lines of force, the subscripts e and o of the modes eHE₁₁ and oHE₁₁ indicates even and odd, respectively. Fig. 4 is an illustration of a transverse cross section of a corrugated elliptical waveguide in ellipsoidal coordinates ξ , η , z which relate to Cartesian coordinates x, y, z as follows where, h is a constant equal to 1 2 of the spacing between the confocal points of the elliptical cross section. The major axes a₁, a₀ and the minor axes b₁, b₀ on the ellipsis 1 and 2 are represented as follows If the eccentricities of the ellipsis 1 and 2 are denoted by e₁ and e₀ respectively, the following relations hold Fig. 5 shows the relationship between electric field component Ez in the direction z and the magnetic field component Hη in the circumferential direction of corrugation grooves 3b. Yout represents the admittance on the ellipse 1. In order to satisfy the boundary condition, it is necessary that the tangent components E With the corrugation groove width w being smaller than half wavelength, the TE mode, which is able to exist in an elliptical waveguide, is unable to exist in the corrugation grooves 3b where the relation ξ₁ ξ ξ₀ holds. As a result, in order for a balanced hybrid mode to exist in the waveguide ξ ξ₁ , it is necessary that the condition where, p the order of hybrid mode, this being unity for practical applications ξ₁, ξ₀ and q¹ are obtained from Equations 4 and 5, and the depths a₀ a₁ and b₀ b₁ on the major and minor axes of the corrugation grooves 3b are derived from Equations 1, 2 and 3 using the thus obtained ξ₁, ξ₀ and q¹. The corrugated elliptical waveguide or horn can be constructed using a graphic illustration of Fig. 6. While it may be impossible to obtain perfect agreement between Equations 4 and 5 as the eccentricity increases as seen from Fig. 6, it is possible to design a corrugated elliptical waveguide or horn having a substantially perfectly balanced hybrid mode by the use of average values of the results of the equations. Table below shows depths of corrugation grooves derived from Equations 4 and 5 for corrugated elliptical waveguides having a frequency of 12 GHz wavelength 25 mm , a pitch P of 4.86 mm and a corrugation groove width w of 3.46 mm. If the corrugated elliptic horn of the present invention is mounted on a parabolic reflector antenna having an elliptic aperture, the antenna will operate at high efficiency with a considerably small amount of cross polarizations as compared with prior art antennas an analysis shows that the cross polarization is approximately 50 dB lower than the main polarization . Therefore, if a corrugated elliptic horn is mounted on an elliptic reflector antenna of a broadcasting satellite or used as a primary radiator of a radar antenna, particularly used in circularly polarized excitation, the antenna s aperture efficiency can be improved to as much as 80 with an improved sidelobe characteristic.