# VARIABLE FREQUENCY SYNTHESIZER

## Claims
Frequenzvariabler Synthesizer, der umfaßt

## Description
The present invention relates to a variable frequency synthesizer which is used as a local oscillator of a spectrum analyzer or a test signal generator for producing signals of frequencies above the VHF band, and more particularly to a variable frequency synthesizer which is excellent in SSB phase noise characteristic. The variable frequency synthesizer of the present invention is used singly as a variable frequency synthesizer in itself but can be used as a part of a frequency synthesizing system as well. In a prior art signal generator, as shown in Fig. 1, a signal from a variable frequency synthesizer 20 is applied via a terminal 18 to a frequency mixer 19, wherein it is frequency mixed with the output of a voltage controlled variable oscillator VCO 21. The output of the voltage controlled variable oscillator 21 is converted by the frequency mixer 19 to a signal of a lower frequency, which is provided to a phase comparator 23, wherein it is phase compared with a reference signal of a frequency f₂ from a variable reference signal generator 22. The phase compared output is applied to an adder 24, wherein it is added to a DC signal from a coarse frequency setting circuit 25, and the added output is provided as a frequency control signal to the voltage controlled variable oscillator 21. For example, the variable frequency synthesizer 20 varies, by steps of 200 MHz, its output signal frequency ranging from 1800 to 3800 MHz, the variable reference signal generator 22 varies, by steps of 1 KHz, its output signal frequency ranging from 200 to 300 MHz and the coarse frequency setting circuit 25 sets an approximate value of the frequency to be created, that is, a value of the higher order digits of the frequency value to be generated. Thus the output frequency f₀ of the vco 21 can be varied in the range of between 2000 to 4000 MHz by the steps of 1 KHz, and the output of such a frequency is provided to an output terminal 41. As the variable frequency synthesizer 20, a frequency synthesizer is employed, which has heretofore been arranged, as shown in Fig. 2. A reference signal of a frequency f Assuming that the oscillation frequency f As described above, the conventional variable frequency synthesizer 20 employs frequency multipliers which frequency multiply the reference signal so as to derive signals of higher frequencies from the reference signal. In general, the reference signal has an instantaneous phase variation, which is also multiplied when the frequency is multiplied by a frequency multiplier. As a result, the output signal of the conventional frequency synthesizer is low in frequency purity. The document FR A 993 974 discloses a variable frequency synthesizer comprising a reference signal source for generating a reference signal of a frequency f It is an object of the present invention to provide a variable frequency synthesizer from which can be obtained an output signal of high frequency purity. This object is achieved with a variable frequency synthesizer as defined in Claim 1. In accordance with the present invention, the reference signal of the frequency f The variable frequency synthesizer of the present invention can be used alone if arranged to be capable of varying the reference signal frequency, or it can be used as a part of a signal generator. Fig. 3 illustrates a signal generator employing an embodiment of the variable frequency synthesizer 51 of the present invention. A reference signal source 11 produces a reference signal of a frequency f The reference signal of the reference signal source 11 is applied as well to a side band signal generator 49 to output therefrom signals of frequencies f Fig. 3 illustrates an embodiment of the variable frequency synthesizer 51 as applied in the signal generator depicted in Fig. 1. In Fig. 3 the parts corresponding to those in Fig. 1 are identified by the same reference numerals and no description will be repeated thereof. Incidentally, when a YIG or YTO oscillator is used as the voltage controlled oscillator 21, its main tuning coil is supplied with the DC output of the coarse frequency setting circuit 25 and its FM coil supplied with the output of the phase comparator 23. A YIG tuning filter or a variable band pass filter using a variable capacitance diode can be employed as the variable filter 16. In a selective frequency setting circuit 52 is set a value m n The frequency transformer 12 is formed by a circuit which is of less phase noise than in the case where the reference signal is directly frequency multiplied by a factor m, that is, it is constituted by up converters with which the phase noise at the output of the frequency transformer 12 is less than For example, as shown in Fig. 5, the reference signal supplied to the frequency transformer 12 is multiplied by a multiplier 27 by a factor k, and by the multiplied output, the frequency f In this case, the output frequency of the final stage up converter 28 Substituting k 2 and j 5 for Sa and Sb, The multiplier 27 usually has a multiplication factor k 2 and constituted by a full wave rectifying frequency doubler. Fig. 7 shows an example of the full wave rectifying frequency doubler employing diodes. It is also possible to use a full wave rectifying frequency doubler employing transistors. The frequency transformer 12 may also be formed only by up converters without using the multiplier 27, as indicated by the broken line in Fig. 5. In such a case, the phase noise is minimized, but each of the up converters calls for a filter for removing spurious noise and an amplifier is sometimes needed for compensating for a conversion loss, resulting in complexity of the entire arrangement. By properly using the frequency doubler, however, the entire arrangement can be relatively simplified. In the frequency transformer 12 two inputs to each up converter can be derived from any desired preceding stages. Fig. 8 illustrates, by way of example, a specific arrangement in which the reference signal frequency f The reference signal from the reference signal source 11 is doubled in frequency by a frequency doubler 26 to 2f In the example shown in Fig. 3 the low order multiplier 13 is employed in the side band signal generator 49. The low order multiplier 13 comprises a power amplifier for sufficiently amplifying the input signal thereto and a step recovery diode for receiving the amplified large amplitude signal and creating, simultaneously, many harmonic frequencies based on the nonlinear input output characteristic of the diode. Thus, the multiplier is capable of generating many harmonic frequencies at a time, but also multiplies the phase noise of the input signal, as mentioned before, and requires a power amplifier. The side band signal generator 49 may also be formed by a combination of up converters and frequency doublers or multipliers as shown in Fig. 8, where many of them are shared with those in the frequency transformer 12. The reference signal and the output of the multiplier 26 are combined by a signal combiner 56, the outputs of the multiplier 27 and the up converter 53 are combined by a signal combiner 57, and the output of the multiplier 27 and the reference signal are provided to an up converter 58, obtaining therefrom an output of a frequency 5f Setting the reference signal frequency f While in the above the variable frequency synthesizer 51 of the present invention has been described to be used as the variable frequency synthesizer 20 in Fig. 1, the frequency synthesizer creates signals of various frequencies in itself, and hence can be used independently. In such an instance, the frequency of the reference signal from the reference signal source 11 is varied so that the frequency m n A tracking filter can also be employed as the variable filter 16. For instance, as shown in Fig. 11, the output of the frequency mixer 15 is frequency converted by a frequency mixer 74 with the output of a voltage controlled variable oscillator 73. The converted output is phase compared by a phase comparator 76 with the output of a signal generator 75. The phase compared output is added by an adder 78 to the output of a selective frequency setting circuit 52. The added output is applied to the variable oscillator 73 to control its frequency, thereby varying the output frequency of the signal generator 75 and the set frequency of the selective frequency setting circuit 52 to set the output frequency of the variable oscillator 73, i.e. the frequency that is provided to the terminal 18. It is also possible as shown in Fig. 12 to supply the outputs of the frequency mixer 15 and the voltage controlled variable oscillator 73 to a sampling phase detector 79 and to supply its output via a loop filter 81 to the adder 78. Incidentally, the output of watch phase comparator in the above is supplied to a loop filter in practice, but it is not illustrated for the sake of brevity.