# Polyolefin blends containing reactive agents.

## Abstract
A polyolefin blend comprising, in physical admixture, a major portion of particles of a first polyethylene and a minor portion of particles of a composition of a second polyethylene, is disclosed. The first polyethylene is selected from the group consisting of homopolymers of ethylene and copolymers of ethylene and at least one C₄ C₁₀ higher alpha olefin, and the second polyethylene is a copolymer of ethylene and at least one C₄ C₁₀ higher alpha olefin having a density of at least 0.890 g cm³, especially at least 0.910 g cm³, and a melt index of at least 40 dg min. The density of the second polyethylene is at least about 0.005 g cm³ lower than that of the first polyethylene and the melt index of the second polyethylene is at least 10 dg min. higher than that of the first polyethylene. The composition of the second polyethylene contains an agent that is capable of reacting with polyolefins that are in a molten state. Such agents are selected from the group consisting of cross linking agents and modifying agents, and mixtures thereof. In an alternative embodiment, the second polyethylene has a shear viscosity that is not more than 50 of that of the first polyethylene at 200 C and a shear rate of 400 sec ¹ in this regard, the first and second polyethylene may be more broadly defined as being homopolymers and copolymers of hydrocarbon alpha olefins having 2 10 carbon atoms. The blends may be used in a wide variety of processes, including blow moulding pro cesses, film and pipe extrusion processes, sheet thermo forming processes and rotational moulding processes.