# Process for the production as asymmetric hydantoins.

## Abstract
An improved process for preparing 4S 6 fluoro spiro chroman 4,4 imidazolidine 2 ,5 dione sorbinil or its 2R methyl derivative 2 methylsorbinil is disclosed herein, starting from p fluorophenol in each instance. The final products obtained have known pharmaceutical value as agents for the control of certain chronic diabetic complica tions. Key steps concerned with the process involve convert ing p fluorophenol into the appropriate β 4 fluorophenoxy alkane halide, followed by amidoalkylation with N benzoyl or N lower alkanoyl α hydroxyglycine to form an intermedi ate 2 amidoalkylated derivative thereof, and then dehydra tion and spiroalkylation of said intermediate by treatment with a dehydrating agent and a base to yield a spiroalkylated azlactone compound. The latter compound is then subse quently converted to the known 4 amino 6 fluorochroman 4 carboxylic acid or the novel 2R methyl derivative thereof, both in the form of their hydrohalide acid addition salts, by employing acid hydrolysis and the intermediate spiro amino acid hydrohalide salt is thereafter converted to the corres ponding methyl or ethyl ester and resolved with α chymotrypsin to afford the desired S methyl or S ethyl ester. Treatment of either of these latter two esters with an alkali metal cyanate in an acid medium then effects conver sion of same to the desired spiro hydantoin ring compound. Alternatively, the spiro amino acid hydrohalide salt can also be converted to the desired spiro hydantoin ring compound in a known manner, involving a sequence of three reaction steps. The spiroalkylated azlactone compound of the instant invention, as well as the methyl and ethyl esters mentioned above, are themselves novel compounds and are valuable as synthetic intermediates in the process of this invention.