# Process and plant for breaking of water oil emulsions.

## Abstract
Process and plant for breaking water oil emulsions comprising passing the emulsion through a micro pore membrane having an array of hydrophilic zones interspersed amongst an array of oleophilic zones. The two phases settle apart after passing through such a membrane.

## Claims
C L A I 14 S 2. A process for breaking a water oil emulsion in which the emulsified droplets have a diameter of at least 0.02 micron, characterized in that the water oil emulsion is driven through a micro pore membrane with pores having a size of at least 0.03 micron, which membrane has an array of hydrophilic zones interspersed amongst an array of oleophilic zones, and that the ratio of the diameter of the emulsified droplets and the size of the pores of the micro pore membrane is at least 0.5. 2. A process according to claim 1, in which the emulsified droplets of the water oil emulsion have a diameter of at most 30 micron. 3. A process according to claim 1 or 2, in which the diameter of the pores of the micro pore membrane is at most 10 micron. 4. A process according to claim 3, in which the said diameter is at most 3 micron. 5. A process according to any one of the preceding claims, in which the membrane comprises fibres which are normally hydrophilic and are bound together using up to 20 w of an oleophilic binder. 6. A process according to any one of claims 1 5, in which the membrane comprises fibres which are normally oleophilic and are bound together using up to 20toW of a hydrophilic binder. 7. A process according to any one of claims 1 5, in which the membrane having an array of hydrophilic zones interspersed amongst an array of oleophilic zones has been prepared by treating a membrane with a weak oil in water emulsion in order to provide the respective hydrophilic and oleophilic zones. 8. A process according to any one of the preceding claims, in which the water oil emulsion to be broken is a Li membrane. 9. Plant for carrying out a process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, which comprises a vessel which is arranged to present a micro pore membrane to the flow of a water oil emulsion, which membrane has an array of hydrophillc zones interspersed amongst an array of oleophilic zones.

## Description
PROCESS A1ZD PT NT FOR BRESEING OF WATER OIL BSJL2ICNS The invention relates to a process and plant for breaking of emulsions in which the emulsified droplets have a diameter of at least 0.02 micron, and in particular of water in oil and oil inwater emulsions, which types of emulsions are referred to herein as water oil emulsions . In many cases the aqueous phase may be a solution of an acid, a base, a salt or an organic compound. Water oil emulsions are found widely in industry, and whether they are formed intentionally, or arise incidentally as a result of a particular operation, the aaueous phase has to be separated from the oil phase sooner or later in other words the emulsion has to be 1 broken11. Commonly this is done either by allowing the two phases to separate out by themselves due to their differing densities, or in cases where the emulsions are relatively stable, the operation may aided by the addition of chemicals, or carried out electrolytically or electrostatically. However, in the case of chemical separation, the chemicals used act by changing the proporties of the oil or additives which are used in making up the emulsion. Such chemicals may often be costly, and in addition they may have harmful effects on tne oil and thus complicate or prevent its reclamation. Electrolytic and electrosvatic separation processes are generally expensive to operate due to the amount of energy reQare . Breaking of emulsions in which the emulsified droplets have a small diameter e.g. from 0.02 10 micron is in particular cifoicult. The invention relates to a process for breaking a wa er oil emulsion in which the emulsified droplets have a diameter of at least 0.02 micron, which is characterized in that the water oil emulsion is driven through a micro pore membrane with tores having a size of at least 0.03 micron, which membrane has an array of hydrophilic zones interspersed amongst an array of oleophilic zones, and that the ratio of the diameter of the emulsified drot lets and the size of the pores of the micro pore membrane is at least 0.5. The two phases will then rapidly settle apart and can be decanted separately. It has been found that if the ratio of the diameter of the emulsified droplets and the size of the pores of the micropore membrane is lower than 0.5 only part of the emulsion is broken. The process in accordance with the invention can operate effectively at ambient temperatures. In case the membranes to be used can withstand higher temperatures there is no reason why the process should not be carried out at higher temperatures. Typical 2 yields may be in the order of 10,000 kg m day at pressures as low as 2.5 bar across the membrane, although this will to some extent depend, for example upon the viscosity of the oil used in the emulsion, and the structure of the membrane. In order to achieve very effective separation it is preferred that the membrane pore size is at most 10 microns. Whilst the actual choice of the pore size will naturally depend upon the type of emulsion to be broken, best results are generally obtained with membranes having a pore size of between 0.1 and 3 micron. Very suitably the emulsion droplets of the water oil emulsion have a diameter of at most 10 micron. The membrane itself may be woven or non woven, and made of natural, synthetic or artificial fibres. Where a membrane is not inherently oleophilic or hydrophilic, it may need to be pretreated to create the desired arrays of oleophilic and hydrophilic zones. In many instances the fibres themselves may be inherently either oleophilic or hydrophilic. The membrane may then be giver.the desired array of contrasting hydrophilic or oleophilic zones as required by using say from 1 to 20 of an appropriate binder material and preferably from 2 to 10. It may also be possible to prewash the membrane to give it the desired hydrophilic or oleophilic properties. This may conveniently be carried out by washing the membrane itself in a weak oil inwater emulsion a weak emulsion which easily breaks , or by sub ejecting it to a spray of atomized oil and one of water so that there is a finely even distribution of the two zones, interspersed one amongst the other. Alternatively the two zones may be arranged in a regular or orderly manner either as a result of the manufacture of the membrane, of the material used in it or by a particular treatment, such as by wetting alternative strips of the membrane with water and or oil. The invention finds an important application in the breaking of cutting oil emulsions such as are used for machining of metals.In use, these emulsions have to be stable, even in contact with metal and tools at high temperatures, but after a time the qualities of the oil deteriorate, and the emulsion has to be broken before the oil can be treated. Such emulsions are commonly oil in water emulsions, and can be broken very efficiently using a process according to the invention. The process according to the invention is particularly useful for the recovery of the oil phase and the extracted phase where liquid membranes are used for concentrating weak solutions or for extraction. Invented in 1966 by Li , these liauid membranes are also called Li membranes. They comprise a very stable water in oil type emulsion in which the water phase contains a chemical reagent and the oil phase an oil soluble detergent, and in some cases a complexing agent. Such an emulsion once made up is contacted with an aqueous solution containing the substance to be concentrated. This substance reacts, normally by ion exchange, with the chemical reagent in the water phase encapsulated in the oil. The purpose of a complexing agent is to enhance this ion exchange. Whilst the usefulness of Li membranes has been widely appreciated, up to now full advantage has not been taken of them because of the difficulty of breaking the very stable emulsion which holds the extracted substance captive in the oil droplets. Most usually such very stable emulsions can only be broken chemically, but this damages the emulsifying agent and probably also the complexing agent requiring make up quantities of both. The emulsion breaking agent may also be difficult to remove from the extracted product and or the oil. By applying the invention to the breaking of Li membranes both phases can be effectively and efficiently separated without dama ging either the oil, the emulsifying agent, the completing agent or the extracted substance. One potentially important area for the use of Li membranes coupled with the process in accordance with the invention is the concentration of phenol and other organic chemicals in waste water.The chemical reagent in this case may conveniently be sodium hydroxide. Another potentially very interesting application of Li menbranes is for the recovery of a metal salt from an aqueous solution of a metal salt. One notable example of this is the copper sulphate solution encountered in electrolytic plants for copper production.In this application the aqueous solution is conveniently concentrated by taking sulphuric acid as the chemical reagent in the aqueous droplets within the Li membrane. The invention also relates to a plant for carrying cut a process in accordance with the invention, which comprises means for driving a water oil emulsion through micropore membrane which has an array of hydrophilic zones interspersed amongst an array of oleophilic zones and a vessel in which the resulting two separated phases can settle apart. The membrane may either be disposed in a so called full flow configuration where all the flow passes through the membrane or a part flow configuration where the emulsion flows over the membrane and only a part of it passes through it on each pass. A particularly attractive feature of the invention is that not only is such plant very simple, and requires only summary maintenance, but it lends itself to economic units of almost any size, large or small. Not only is it thus suited to large industrial application, but also to being sold in small units which can be used in workshops, laboratories and the like. The invention will now be further illustrated by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawing which is a schematic block diagram of a plant for carrying out a process in accordance with the invention. The plant shown is intended for making and breaking a Li membrane. Basically it comprises an emulgator 20 connected with a reservoir 12 by line 13 for a mineral oil which acts as a continuous phase and a reservoir 1 4 by line 15 for a chemical reagent.The emulgator 10, in which the Li membrane is prepared, is provided with a powered stirrer 16 and its outlet 18 is connected by a line 20 to an extraction vessel 22, which is also provided with a powered stirrer 24. The extraction vessel 22 is provided with a line 26 for receiving a solution of the substance to be extracted and an exit line 28 for the treated solution. The extraction vessel is provided with another outlet line 30 for the Li membrane, the aqueous phase of which contains the extracted substance. Alternatively, both phases may leave the extraction vessel 22 to be separated out in a coalescer not shown . The line 30 leads to an emulsion breaking vessel 32 for breaking the Li membrane via a pump 34. The vessel 32 houses a micropore membrane 36 according to the invention shown in dIagrammatic form in a full flow configuration. The membrane, which may need to have a substantial surface area is often in the form of a filter pack wherein a very large number of elements are provided in parallel in order to reduce its size to a minimum. The treated phases leave the emulsion breaking vessel 32 by line 38 and pass to a coalescer 40, from which the separated phases can be drawn off by line 42 and 44. The extracted phase is n general the more dense of the two and leaves by the lower line 42 whilst the oil phase with the emulsifying agent and the complexing agent if present leaves by the upper line 44 leading back to the reservoir 12 whence it can be reused without further treatment. EX tPLES 1. Comparative 500 ml kerosine, 25 g of the completing agent Si E 529 2 hydroxy 5 nonylacetofenonoxim and 1 ml of a detergent comprising a reaction product of polyisobutenylmaleic anhydride and tetraethylenepentamine were added to 500 ml H2S04 200 girl and agitated for 1 minute at 20000 rpm . 25 ml of the resulting emulsion were added to 250 ml of a II zipper sulphate solution 2000 ppm Cu in a reactor vessel and stirred for 2Q minutes at 350 rpm. During the stirring emulsified droplets of from 2 mm to 5 mm were formed. These droplets are Li membranes and contain an aqueous phase emulsified therein. The two phases were allowed to settle and on removing the copper sulphate solution its copper content had been halved. The emulsified droplets which will be referred to as EmulsionA, and which droplets contain the aqueous phase emulsified therein in droplets of 1 micron diameter were then brought into contact with with a 50 cm polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE membrane 1 micron pore size which had been prewashed with isooctane. At a pressure of 4 bar and at a temperature of 2800, only the oil phase passed the membrane at a rate of 140 kg m2 day. Within a short time the membrane became blocked by a viscous mass and the test had to be discontinued.2. Comparative Emulsion A was brought into contact with a 50 2 cm polysulphone ultra filtration membrane with a pore size of 0.003 micron type GR8 from the company DDS Danske Sucker Fabrikker .This membrane had been prewashed in demineralised water, ethanol and isooctane. Using a pressure of 6 bar and a temperature of from 3 400 the 2 22 to 34 C only the oil phase passed. The flux was 3 kg m day and the test had to be discontinued for the same reasons as did Example 1.3. According to the invention Emulsion A was brought into 2 contact with a 50 cm membrane comprising ultra fine glass fibres bound with 5w acrylic binder, as manufactured by Gelman Co. and having a mean pore size of approx. 0.7 micron. At a temperature of 210C and a pressure of 0.7 bar the emulsion was completely broken and both phases passed the membrane. The flux was in the order of 2 10,000 kg m iday. 4. Comparative Emulsion A was brought into contact with a 50 2 cm glass fibre membrane without binder from Macheny Nagel, which had a pore size of about 0.3 micron. At a temperature of 240C and a pressure of 0.7 bar approximately half of the emulsion was broken.Both the broken and the unbroken emulsion passed the membrane, and 2 the flux was in the order of 20,000 kg m day.5. According to the invention The glass fibre membrane described in Example 4 was locally treated with drops of a 5 solution of polymethyl methacrS lat e in dichloromethane, and the latter was subsequently evaporated. An emulsion prepared from 32 pbw of water, 66 pbw of isooctane and 2 pbw of a commercial surfactant Decon 90 , having emulsified droplets with a diameter of 2 micron, was forwarded through the membrane thus obtained at 1.5 bar at 2000. The emulsion was completely broken, the throughput was 37,000 2 kg m day. 6. Comparative 500 ml of isooctane and 5 ml of the detergent described in Example 1 were added to 500 ml of a 2.5n caustic soda solution and agitated for j minute at 10,000 rpm. 283 g of the resulting emulsion were added to 1500 ml of demineralised water having a phenol content of 390 ppm. This mixture was stirred at. 250 rpm for 60 minutes during which time emulsion droplets of a diani eter of 1 to 5 mm were formed. These droplets are Li membranes and contain an aqueous phase emulsified therein. The water phase was drained off and upon analysis was found. to contain 1 ppm phenol at a pH of 10.0. Leakage of caustic soda from the oil droplets over the 60 minutes was approximately 0.03 . The remaining emulsion hereinafter referred to as Emulsion X, which contains the aqueous phase emulsified in droplets of 0.4 micron diameter was decanted into a filter vessel and driven through a membrane from Schleicher Schull which had a surface area of 50 cm and consisted of a d layer glass fibre mat with an inorganic binder, no oleophilic sites were present . The pore size of the membrane was according to the manufacturer ca. 0.3 micron, which means that solid particles with a slze above about 0.3 micron did not pass the three layer filter. The size of the pores in each layer is much higher and above 1 micron.At a temperature of between 0 23 and 55 C and a pressure of 2.5 bar about 2 3 of the emulsion was broken both broken and unbroken emulsion passed this membrane and the total flux varied between 2000 and 20,000 kg m2 day, depending upon the temperature. 7. Comparative Emulsion B was brought into contact with a membrane similar to that used In Example 6 but with the sole difference that an organic binder was used to bind the fibres. The ratio of diameter of emulsified droplets and membrane pore size was below 0.5. At a temperature of 540C and a pressure of 2.5 bar, the emulsion 2 passed the membrane at a rate of 100,000 kg m day without being broken.8. Comparative Emulsion B was brought into contact with a membrane from Schleicher Schull comprising 3 layers of glass fibres impregnated with silicones. Its pore size was smaller than 0.3 micron for solid particles the size of the pores in each layer is much higher and above 1 micron. At a temperature of 5600 and a pressure of 2.5 bar all the emulsion passed the membrane, but only 2 about 1 3 was broken. The flow was in the order of 24,000 kg m day. 9. According to the invention Emulsion B was brought into contact with a membrane comprising 3 layers of ultra fine glass fibres with 5 acrylic binder from Gelman Co. The membrane had a rejection rate of 98 for particles of 0.7 micron the pore size in each layer was also 0.7 micron. At a temperature between 30 and 0 60 C the emulsion was completely broken with both the oil phase and the water phase passing the membrane. A flow of between 4000 and 2 20,000 kg m day was observed 10. Comparative Emulsion B was introduced into a cylindrical organic resin bonded glass fibre filter from Balston. This filter had been specially developed to break oil in water emulsions up to a maximum of 1000 ppm oil and had a pore size of 10 microns.At a temperature of 200C and a pressure of 0.15 bar about half of the 2 emulsion was broken and a flow of between 500 and 1900 kg m day was achieved. ii. According to the invention An emulsion similar to emulsion B was prepared, with the difference that the agitation was carried out for J minute at 750 rpm. The emulsified aqueous droplets in theLi membrane had a diameter of 7 micron. This emulsion was driven through the Balston filter described in Example 10 at 1.5 bar. The 2 emulsion was broken completely and a flow of 5000 kg m day was observed. 32. Comparative Emulsion C comprised an aqueous emulsion ofShell Dromus B cutting oil with a small quantity of potassium hydroxide. The emulsion, which contained emulsified oil droplets of 3 micron diameter was brought into contact with a cellulose acetate micro pore membrane from Millipore, which had been prewashed in water or in a diluted solution of MgCl2. The pores of the filter were ca. 0.45 micron. At a pressure differential of about g bar at 0 a temperature of 20 C only the water phase passed. A flux of 50 to 2 70Q kg m day was obtained but the membrane became obstructed by the formation of an oil layer in it.13. Comparative Emulsion C was brought into contact again with the membrane used in Example 12, but on this occasion the membrane 0 had been prewashed in oil. At a temperature of 20 C and a pressure differential of j bar the emulsion passed the membrane virtually 2 unbroken. The flux was in the order of 700kg m day. 14. According to the invention Emulsion C was brought into contact again with the membrane used in Example 12, but on this occasion the membrane had been treated by passing a weak oil in 0 water emulsion through it. At a temperature of 20 C and a pressure differential of 1 bar the emulsion passed through the membrane and 2 was completely broken. A flux of between 70 and 600 kg m day was observed.15. According to the invention A membrane with interspersed hydrophilic and oleophilic zones was prepared by sintering polypro pylene fibres together with the aid of an inorganic water insoluble salt. The pore size amounted to 1 3 micron. The emulsion described in Example 5 was forwarded through the membrane at 2000 and 1.5 bar. The emulsion was broken completely, the throughput amounted to 2 1400,000 kg m day. 36. According to the invention About half of the surface of a polytetrafluoroezhylene membrane pore size 0.2 micron was sprayed with a 3 3 solution of isopropanol and water. The emulsion described under 15 was forwarded through the membrane thus obtained at 2 0 bar and 20 C. The emulsion was completely broken the throughput 2 was 90,000 kg m day. 27. Comparative In this Example the polytetrafluoroethylene ofExample 26 was used in untreated form with the same emulsion and linder the same conditions as in Example 16. In the beginning the 2 throughput was 18,000 kg m day, but the throughput rapidly decli ned and the filter was blocked completely.