# Injection moulded shutter.

## Abstract
A shutter 7 of the kind which comprises a series of inter connected strips 8, 13 which extend laterally of the shutter so as to provide a flexible form of shutter 7 or door capable of negotiating bends during its opening and closing operation. The strips 13 are injection moulded from plastics ma terial and have integral male and female connecting mem bers 14, 15 at their ends. These connecting members are formed adjacent a shoulder 16 so that when the connecting members 14, 15 are joined together the shoulder 16 prevents relative lateral movement of the strip 13 because the inner surfaces of the female members 15 engage the shoulders 16 on adjacent strips 13 . Throughout the length of the strip 13 is formed a recess 17 and a corresponding extension portion 18 so that when the strips 13 are engaged to form a shutter 7 the portions 18 lie in adjacent recesses 17 on adjacent strips 13 thus forming a uniform shutter surface and preventing or substantially preventing tampering with the shutter 7 . To further strengthen the shutter 7 and to assist in preventing tampering a tongue 19 is formed on each strip 13 and a corresponding recess 20 so that when the strips 13 are joined together the tongues 19 of all the strips 13 engaged in recesses 20 of adjacent strips 13 . A preferred use of the shuter 7 is a door to a banknote cassette.

## Claims
Claims 1. A flexible shutter comprising a series of interconnected strips 13 which extend laterally of the shutter, each strip 13 having at each end integral male and female connecting members 14,15 whereby the strips 13 may be joined in series to form the shutter characterised by each strip also comprising a recess 17 running the length of the strip adapted to receive a corresponding overlapping portion 18 of an adjacent strip 13 . 2. A flexible shutter according to claim 1 characterised in that the strips 13 are individually formed by injection moulding. 3. A flexible shutter according to claim 1 or claim 2 characterised in that the individual strips 13 are formed from plastics material. 4. flexible shutter according to any preceding claim characterised in that the strips 13 are reinforced by embedding reinforcement wires or reinforcement strips in the individual plastic strips. 5. A flexible shutter according to any preceding claim characterised in that the strips 13 are formed with a protruding tongue 19 and a recess 20 so positioned that when the strips are joined at their ends the tongue 19 of one strip 13 enters the recess 20 of an adjacent strip 13 so as to interlock the strips to prevent tampering and to allow flexibility of the strips. 6. A flexible shutter according to any preceding claim characterised in that the male and female connecting members 14,15 are formed adjacent shoulders 16 at the ends of the strips 13 so that when the male and female connecting members 14,15 are engaged relative lateral movement of the strips 13 is prevented. 7. A flexible shutter according to any preceding claim characterised in that it is used as the door 7 of a cassette 6 . 8. A flexible shutter according to claim 7 characterised in that the ends of the strips 13 forming the shutter are engaged in guides 9,10 at each side of the cassette so that the male and female connecting members are totally enclosed within the guides.

## Description
Injection Moulded Shutter This invention relates to a shutter of the kind which comprises a series of inter connected strips which extend laterally of the shutter so as to provide a flexible form of shutter or door capable of negotiating bends during its opening and closing operation. Shutters of this kind are used as closures for boxes and containers such as cassettes containing bank notes, vertical filing cabinets, and for doors for garages, lock up shops etc. An object of this invention is to provide a shutter which is inexpensive to manufacture, has a minimum of parts, and is substantially tamper proof when used in appropriate circumstances such as when used as a cassette.door. In accordance with the present invention there is a flexible shutter comprising a series of inter connected strips which extend laterally of the shutter, each strip having at each end integral male and female connecting members whereby the strips may be joined in series to form the shutter, each strip also comprising a recess running the length of the strip adapted to receive a corresponding overlapping portion of an adjacent strip. The strips are preferably individually formed by injection moulding. Preferably the individual strips are formed from plastics material. The strips may be reinforced by embedding reinforcement wires or reinforcement strips in the individual injection moulded plastic strips. Each of the st rips may be formed with a protruding tongue and a recess so positioned that when the strips are joined at their ends the tongue of one strip. enters the recess of an adjacent strip so as to interlock the strips to prevent tampering and to allow flexibility of the strips. Preferably also the male and female connecting members are formed adjacent shoulders at the ends of the strips so that when the male and female connecting members are engaged relative lateral movement of the strips is prevented. The shutter may be used as the door of a cassette, particularly a cassette intended to contain bank notes, and in this case the ends of the strips forming the shutter are preferably engaged in guides at each side of the cassette so that the male and female connecting members are totally enclosed within the guides. In the accompanying drawings Figure 1 is an isometric view of a bank note cassette having a shutter door made in accordance with the invention Figure 2 shows one of the injection moulded strips which will form the shutter door Figure 2A shows an enlarged view partly in section of the same strip Figure 3 shows the way in which the individual strips of Figure 2 are assembled to form a shutter and Figure 4 is a section through one end of an assembled shutter illustrating the inter engaging male and female portions which are enclosed within a guide on the cassette. The bank note cassette shown in Figure 1 is shown in more detail in our published UK Patent SpecificationNo. 2039264A. The cassette is in the form of a strong box 6 which has at one end a shutter 7 formed of a number of strips 8 made in accordance with the invention. The lateral ends of the strips forming the shutter are when the shutter is closed engaged in guides 9 and 10 at the sides of the cassette. The guides are of U shaped sections so as to receive the ends of the shutter. The cassette is arranged so that when it is put into an appropriate machine a pair of rods 11 and 12 enter the cassette and operate mechanism to open the shutter. The full details of this cassette will not be described but they may be obtained by reference to our published UK Patent Specification 2039264A. In Figures 2 and 2A is shown a single moulded plastic strip adapted to form a shutter in accordance with the invention. In Figure 2A the strip 13 is shown broken into three parts for convenience of illustration but it will be appreciated that the three parts are injection moulded to form a single unitary strip with integral male and female connecting members 14 and 15 at each end of the strip as shown in Figure 2. These connecting members are formed adjacent a shoulder 16 so that when the connecting members are joined together the shoulder 16 prevents relative lateral movement of the strip because the inner surfaces of the female members 15 engage the shoulders 16 on adjacent strips.Throughout the length of the strip is formed a recess 17 Fig.2a and a corresponding extension portion 18 so that when the strips are engaged to form a shutter the portions 18 lie in adjacent recesses 17 on adjacent strips thus forming a uniform shutter surface and preventing or substantially preventing tampering with the shutter. To further strengthen the shutter and to assist in preventing tampering tongues9 is formed on each strip and corresponding recesses 20 so that when the strips are joined together the tongues 19 of all the strips engage in recesses 20 of adjacent strip. This is best seen in Figure 3 where it is seen that several of the strips have been joined together by engaging the male and female inter connecting members at their ends. The formation of the connecting members is such as to allow flexibility of the shutter, security in joining the strips to form the shutter and restriction of relative lateral movement of the strips. When the shutter is used as the door of a cassette of the type shown in Figure 1 of the drawings the male and female inter connecting members 14 and 15 will be totally contained within the U shaped guides 9 and O which extend around the bend at the front top edge of the cassette and into the area below the lid of the cassette. A portion of the guide 9 is shown in Fig. 3 and also somewhat diagrammatically in Figure 4 with one end of the shutter shown contained within the guide. Portions of the ends of the strips forming the shutter are shown broken away and in sections to illustrate the way in which the male and female members are contained totally within the guides 9 and 10 and to illustrate the way in which the strips bend to follow the contour of the guides. Because the male and female members at the ends of the shutter are contained within these guides and can be dimensioned so as to be a very close fit in the guides with virtually no play, the wear on the shutters is restricted. Also by enclosing the inter connecting male and female members totally in the guides it is very difficult for them to become disconnected or for anybody to attempt to disconnect them by tampering with the shutter. The injection moulded plastic strips are very inexpensive and thus the total cost of producing a shutter may be reduced by making use of this invention. The material used for the injection moulding of the strips is preferably glass filled acetal or nylon. The strips 13 may be reinforced by embedding elongated reinforcement members such as Nylon cord, metal strips, rods or wires or glass or other fibres in the strips 13.