# MOTION PICTURE SYSTEM

## Claims
Verfahren zur Herstellung eines Kinobildes, das den Betrachter erhöht psychologisch anspricht, wobei ein Streifen eines lichtempfindlichen Filmes durch eine Kameralinse hindurch belichtet wird, um Bilder auf einzelnen Filmfeldern zu erzeugen, die über die Länge des Filmes mit einer konstanten Bildfolge nacheinander angeordnet sind, und der Filmstreifen oder eine Kopie davon auf eine Leinwand projeziert wird, gekennzeichnet durch die Kombination mit den an sich bekannten Erfordernissen für die Projektionsfolge, damit der Streifen mit der gleichen konstanten Bildfolge, mit welcher der Film belichtet worden ist, fortbewegt wird, wobei die konstante Bildfolge zwischen 50 Bildern pro Sekunde und 72 Bildern pro Sekunde, jeweils einschließlich, liegt, und gekennzeichnet durch die weiteren Erfordernisse, daß beim Belichtungsschritt auf dem Film Bilder erzeugt werden, die eine Auflösung von mehr als 40 Linienpaaren pro Millimeter und einen Bildbereich von mindestens 230 Quadratmillimetern haben, und daß der Projektionsschritt das Erzeugen einer Lichtstärke von mehr als 56,4 cd 16,5 foot lamberts auf der Leinwand einschließt.

## Description
This invention concerns a method for producing a motion picture image that creates a heightened physiological response in observers. In the early development of the motion picture, experimentation was conducted to determine the ideal parameters. Perhaps the foremost innovator was Thomas Edison who designed the 35 mm format which is still the most widely used theatrical motion picture format worldwide. Edison chose a frame rate of 48 fps frames per second , which is a rate that was found to avoid observable flickering. However, this rate was later abandoned by the industry as a result of the work of Louis and August Lumier who discovered that flashing each frame a plurality of times can eliminate flicker. They chose a 16 fps rate, but with each frame flashed three times two interruptions to provide three brief showings to obtain a 48 per second flashing rate which was found to avoid observable flickering while reducing the required amount of film stock. A 16 fps rate, with each frame flashed twice, produces a continuous and flicker free image at least when the picture quality is not good . When sound was added to motion pictures in the late 1920 s, a faster film speed was needed so the sound track could move fast enough past the sound head to generate good sound fidelity. A rate of 24 fps with double flashing of each frame, which provides 48 flashes per second, was chosen as the standard. This rate has continued from that time to the present, and remains the worldwide standard for commercial theater motion picture projection. Although considerable development work has been done on improving motion picture quality, relatively little has ever been published regarding frame rates since the 24 fps double flash rate standard was adopted in fact modern articles which have been found on the subject suggest that frame rates of less than 24 fps but with triple flicker should be considered for modern use. It may be noted that very high camera frame rates are sometimes used in scientific experimentation, such as in investigating the impact of a projectile or the flight techniques of birds, but the resulting film is shown at a much lower rate such as 18 fps or 24 fps, but not at the original camera rate. Considerable development work has been performed on improving image quality. The graininess of film limits its resolution. Graininess probably was not a problem in the earliest motion picture development by Edison whose development was concerned with peep show display the nickelodeon . Even in early theatrical display, the problem of accurately aligning subsequent film frames and other technical limitations probably overwhelmed film resolution limitations. However, as camera and projector technology improved, the film resolution limitations have become important, especially as bigger and wider screens have been employed. Wider screens that provide a greater horizontal angle of view have long been recognized as desirable in providing greater realism, but they can result in increased lateral magnification which increases the noticeable graininess. 70 mm wide film was developed in the early 1950 s to increase resolution. A technique named Vista Vision was developed in the late 1950 s for the wide screen, wherein standard 35 mm film was used but each frame was positioned at a 90 rotation from normal thus, instead of using standard film frames 0.825 inch 1 inch 25.4mm wide and 0.446 inch tall, Vista Vision used frames about .870 tall and about 1.470 wide with the 1.470 dimension extending along the length of the film . A technique named Cinerama was developed in the 1950 s, wherein three separate projectors using 33 mm film, were used to obtain good image quality over a very wide screen. Presently, 70 mm wide film is occasionally used in commercial entertainment film projection, with an image area of 1.912 inch by 0.870 inch. While these techniques have produced clear, large images in commercial theaters, an even greater degree of realism would be desirable. The present invention provides a method for producing a motion picture image that creates a heightened physiological response in observers comprising exposing a strip of light sensitive film through a camera lens to form images on individual film frames spaced along the length of the film at a predetermined constant frame rate and projecting said film strip or a copy taken therefrom onto a screen, characterised by the combination with the requirements known per se for the projection step that said strip is advanced at the same constant frame rate as the one at which the film was exposed and that the constant frame rate is from 50 frames per second to 72 frames per second, inclusive, the further requirements that the exposing step creates images on said film having a resolution of more than 40 line pairs per millimeter and a frame area of at least 230 square millimeters, and that the projecting step includes producing a luminance greater than 56.4cd 16.5 foot lamberts on said screen. Preferably, the amount of light passed through the projected film is sufficient to create a luminance of more than 18 foot lamberts at the centre of the screen for completely transparent frames and the size of each frame is large enough to provide a resolution of over 900 line pairs along both the width and height of a frame of the film and the image thereof on the screen. Preferably each frame has either or both of an area of at least 506.25 square millimetres and a height of at least 11.4 millimetres with a greater width. In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, a method is described for producing a motion picture image that creates a vivid impression of realism in observers from a motion picture that is photographed on a strip of film, developed, and projected. The novel features of the invention are set forth with particularity in the appended claims. The invention will be described further, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which Fig. 1 is partially an elevation and partially a perspective view of a motion picture system of the prior art Fig. 2 is a simplified perspective view of the system of Fig. 1 Fig. 3 is similar to Fig. 2, except that it shows the prior art system at a later instant Fig. 4 is a schematic plan view of a commercial motion picture theater and Fig. 5 is a view of two lines showing how resolution can be defined in a system of the present invention, Referring in more detail to the drawings, Figs. 1 and 2 illustrate a motion picture projector 10 of a conventional commercial type which can project images on a screen 12. The projector includes a light source 14, and a lens 16 that directs the light through the film 18 and through a lens 20 that focuses the light onto the screen. An intermittent film feeding mechanism 22, shown in Fig. 2, such as a maltese cross type that includes a film engaging sprocket 24, rapidly moves a film frame 18F to a projecting position directly behind the lens, and holds it there for a short period. During the time when the film frame is being moved to the projecting position, a shutter 26 blocks the light as shown in Fig. 3. In present theater systems, twenty four new film frames per second are positioned at the projecting position. In order to prevent apparent flicker however, each new frame is briefly interrupted by the shutter 26 while the frame is stationary at the projecting position, so that the frame is shown twice, or flashed twice, which has been found to generally avoid flickering. Although considerable development work has been done to improve motion picture quality, the efforts have generally involved adjusting the size, orientation, or the like of the film frame. As described earlier, much of the work done to improve image quality has involved the use of a larger film frame size which reduces the effect of film grain especially for projection on large wide screens. In accordance with the present invention as claimed, a method is provided for producing a motion picture image that creates a vivid impression of realism in observers, which is superior to that which has been previously created in motion picture theaters even when using wide format film and the best of equipment in taking and projecting the motion picture film. In particular, it has been found that then good theater quality resolution and film frame size is provided along with the use of a high screen illumination level that is as high as is used in the best prior motion picture theaters, that when this is combined with the use of a very high frame rate of at least 50 frames per second, that viewers experience a high degree of realism far superior to that which has been realized heretofore even when high theatre quality motion picture films have been projected using high illumination level. The resolution of the image projected on a large and high quality theater screen, may be defined in different ways. One definition is the number of line pairs that can be resolved per millimeter. The SMPTE Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers has set a standard of 80 line pairs per millimeter. This standard is really a goal and is almost never attained in practice. Fig. 5 illustrates a pair of lines 40, 41 with a space 42 between them, and separated by a distance D. If the distance D is 1 80th mm and the lines can be distinguished, then the resolution is at least 80 line pairs per mm. For standard 35mm film frames of 11.3 millimeters 0.446 inch height, 900 line pairs can be resolved across the height of the film frame at a resolution of 80 line pairs per mm. on the film. At a resolution of 40 line pairs per mm, 450 line pairs can be resolved across the height of the film frame. Another definition of resolution or potential information or storage capacity, can be based on the proposition that each line and the space between them can represent rows cf pixels, such as the pixels 43, 44, 45. Assuming the same resolution in every direction then the information capacity is proportional to the area of the film frame. The standard 35 mm film frame has a width of 21 millimeters 0,825 inch and a height of 11.3 millimeters .446 inch . At a resolution of 80 line pairs per mm, the capacity per film frame based on the above approach is 13.7 million pixels. In practice, professional photographers using typical care and equipment achieve a resolution of about 50 of the SMPTE standard, or about 40 line pairs per mm, and each 35 mm film frame then could be said to have a capacity of about 3.4 million pixels. Color film is readily available that has sufficient grain fineness to permit a resolution of over 80 line pairs per mm. A projection lens of high resolution can project an image of a film frame on a screen, to produce about the same resolution or capacity of pixels on the screen as are present on the film frame. That is, for a standard 35 mm film frame with a resolution of 40 line pairs per mm, 450 line pairs can be resolved across the height of the projected image. As mentioned above, the information capacity of a film depends on both the area of the film frame and the resolution. The following table compares the film sizes that are available. Almost all home motion pictures are taken on a Super 8 format, in which the film area of each frame is less than one tenth the area of standard 35 mm frames. Thus, even if the camera and techniques used by professional motion picture photographers were available for home motion pictures, the information capacity per film frame would be much less than on the 35mm format which is the smallest used in the commercial theater entertainment motion picture industry. The brightness of the image projected on a screen, is typically measured in terms of the foot lamberts produced when blank unexposed portions of the film are projected. In an average commercial motion picture theater, a level of 8 to 10 foot lamberts would be expected, while in a good quality theater, a level of about 12 foot lamberts might be expected. The SMPTE has recommended a level of 16.5 foot lamberts, but this is not achieved in practice. The ANSI American National Standards Institute has stated that the luminance level of 16 2 foot lamberts should not be exceeded or else flicker becomes objectionable. The screen brightness that is observed actually depends on the luminous flux or light intensity projected on the screen and the reflectance of the screen. We have used a Hurley Superglow screen having a gain of 2 a matt white surface has a gain of 1.7 to obtain maximum brightness with good image quality. Assuming light reflectance of 80 , and a relatively small theater screen which is about 10 feet high and 18 feet wide, a flux of about 3,400 lumen would be required at 18.5 lumens per square foot to achieve the present high light intensity of 15 foot lamberts even in a relatively small commercial theater. A flux of over 3700 lumen would be required to produce over 16.5 foot lamberts. When professional quality film of a commercial size of at least the standard 35 mm format, and professional techniques are used that produce a resolution of over 40 line pairs per mm, a high quality motion picture can be obtained wherein each frame has over 3.4 million pixels of storage capacity. When this film is developed and then projected, using a high quality theater projector with a good projection lens, the resolution of the image on the screen is limited only by the resolution of the film frame. When such resolution is present along with a high luminance approaching the suggested 16.5 foot lambert level, or higher, and with the standard commercial rate of 24 frames per second is used, a bright and clear image is produced. However, it is found that when these factors of high resolution and light level are used, and in addition, the frame rate at which the image was photographed and later projected is at least 50 frames per second and preferably higher, that an unusual phenomenon occurs. Observers of the resulting motion picture image experience a vivid impression of realism which is greatly enhanced from the level achieved when all the factors are the same except that a slower frame rate such as 24 fps is used. Although the projected image quality must be high, it is not just the information projected on the screen per unit time that results in the realism that applicant obtains. Applicant has made and shown a motion picture using the 70 mm format 1.663 square inches per frame with a resolution of at least 56 line pairs per mm, and a frame rate of 60 fps. The vivid impression of realism that was created, was not matched by similarly high quality motion pictures taken in the IMAX format 5.23 square inches per frame, but at a 24 fps rate even though the capacity of information and the amount of film used, is greater for the IMAX technique. For example, assuming 3.4 million pixels per 35 mm standard frame, there would be 15.4 million pixels per 70 mm frame and 48.3 million pixels per IMAX frame. At 60 fps the 70 mm frame provides 924 million pixels per second, while at 24 fps the IMAX frame provides 1449 million pixels per second. Still, the 70 mm frame at 70 fps provides more realism than the IMAX frame at 24 fps. While a frame rate progressively greater than 50 fps can produce a progressively superior motion picture image, there appears to be a limit of about 72 fps at which a further rate increase does not produce significant further improvement. Psychological studies were conducted by an independent firm, using 52 persons as subjects, to assess the response of the viewers to different projection frame rates. Motion pictures of the same scenes were taken at six different frame rates at 24, 36, 48, 60. 66 and 72 fps and were shown to the subjects at the rate of which they were taken, under carefully controlled conditions. Although the comments of viewers show that the overall quality of the image increased with frame rate to about 72 fps, the involuntary galvanic skin response showed this even more clearly. The vivid impression of realism created by the use of a high frame rate such as 60 fps, occurs only when the projected image is already clear and bright as by the use of film frames having a storage capacity of over 3.4 million pixels per frame, and a high luminance of at least 16 foot lamberts. If the capacity and brightness of the film are much less than these levels, then the use of a high frame rate above 50 fps will not produce a vivid impression of realism. It is also necessary that the photographing and projection be accomplished at professional levels, wherein the film is evenly exposed at the proper light level during photographing, and that the lenses be set to produce a very sharp image during both the photographing and projecting. All of these conditions would not be present simultaneously in home motion pictures taken on the typical 8 mm or super 8 format. In super 8 format, each frame has an area less than one tenth that of a standard 35 mm frame. Even if a professional level of image sharpness is achieved, such a resolution of 40 line pairs per mm, then the capacity per frame in the super 8 format, of about 0.3 million pixels, is still about 1 10th that available in commercial theater systems 35 mm stock . Additional degradation of home movie quality as compared to professional theater quality, during photographing, developing, and projecting, results in an even greater discrepancy in projected image quality. It might be supposed that the size of the film frame should not matter, because home movies are projected on smaller screens, so the image on a film frame is distributed over a smaller area of a small screen even a theater motion picture may be displayed on screens of different sizes in different theaters. However, viewers can properly view a screen containing a motion picture image only if they place themselves far enough from the screen to view all or most of the screen or at least along the height thereof. Fig. 4 illustrates a relatively small screen 110 of a 1.85 aspect ratio the width is 1.85 times the height in a small theater wherein the seats are arranged within the rectangular area 112 to view a screen of width W. The preferred seating area is indicated at 114, which extends between distances W 2 and 1 1 2 W from the screen. In a large theater having a large screen 120 of a width T that is twice as large as the width W. the seats are typically arranged within a rectangular area 122 and the ideal viewing area 124 extends from a distance T 2 to 1 1 2 T from the screen. At the point 126 which is at the front of both viewing areas 114, 124, the width of the screen subtends an angle of about 60 . Most viewers will not feel comfortable sitting closer than about this location because they then cannot view most of the height of the screen without moving their heads up and down. It may be noted that wide formats have been found to enhance entertainment, by providing an image in the peripheral area of the observer s vision in which background scenery lies, but the primary portion of the image usually lies near the center of the screen. Thus, the invention provides a method for producing an entertainment motion picture image that creates a vivid impression of realism in observers that is superior to that which has been created in the past. This is accomplished by photographing and later projecting a motion picture image, where the film frames have a high information storage capacity to create an image of high resolution to an observer in the preferred seating area and are projected at a high light level, at least equal to high quality theater motion picture standards, and where, in addition, the frame rate is at least 50 fps. The information storage capacity of each frame is one wherein each film frame has a resolution of over 40 line pairs per mm and an area of at least 230 square millimeters 0.36 square inch , which is that achieved in good quality photography in the standard 35 mm format. This provides a storage capacity per frame of over 3.4 million pixels per frame, and at least this capacity is available in the image projected on the screen. Applicant has set a minimum standard of resolution of 56 line pairs per mm and is using the 70 mm format in his films . The luminance is at least 16.5 foot lamberts. When these high quality standards are combined with the high frame rate of at least 50 fps applicant finds that an unusually vivid impression of realism is created in observers of the motion picture image. Of course, it is usual to make copies of the original film and project these copies on screens, so that the description of exposing and projecting a film includes the projecting of a copy of the original exposed film. Although particular embodiments of the invention have been described and illustrated herein, it is recognized that modifications and variations within the scope of the claims may readily occur to those skilled in the art.