# Aqueous surfactant free base coating for metallized paper.

## Abstract
An improved aqueous base coating for paper sub strates to be vacuum metallized consists essentially of an aqueous emulsion containing a film forming polymer pre pared by emulsion copolymerizing an acrylate monomer having a Tg of 55 to 70 C e.g., butyl or 2 ethylhexyl ac rylate with selected vinyl polymerizable monomers having a Tg of about 50 to 110 C e.g. methyl methacrylate, iso butyl methacrylate, styrene, or vinyl toluene to give a po lymer having a theoretical Tg of above 10 to 45 C. The polymerization is carried out in the presence of about 25 40 wt. of a water soluble colloid polymer having a Tg of 14 to 80 C. The colloid polymer is the ammonium salt of an acid containing polymer having a molecular weight of about 2000 10 000 which consists essentially of about 10 40 acrylic and or methacrylic acid and about 60 90 of selected vinyl polymerizable monomers other than the acid monomer e.g. styrene, butyl meth acrylate, isobutyl meth acrylate, methyl methacrylate and or ethylene .

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. An aqueous coating, which consists essentially of a surfactantfree aqueous emulsion containing a film forming polymer composite prepared by emulsion copolymerizing an acrylate monomer having a theoretical Tg of 55 to 700C with a vinyl polymerizable monomer having atheoreticalTg of 50 to llO C selected from the group consisting of a methacrylate ester, styrene, or styrene derivative to give an acrylate containing polymer having a theoretical Tg of above 10 to 45 C, the polymerization being carried out in the presence of 25 40 by weight, based on the total weight of the monomers, of a fully neu tralized colloid polymer soluble in water and having an actual Tg of 140 to 80 C, the colloid polymer being an ammonium salt of an acid containing polymer having a number average molecular weight of 2000 10,000 and consisting essentially of 10 40t by weight of acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, or mixtures thereof and 60 90 of a vinyl polymerizable monomer selected from the group consisting of an acry late ester, methacrylate ester, styrene, styrene derivative, and ethylene, the monomer percentages being by weight and totaling 100, the polymer composite being present in the aqueous coating in an amount sufficient to form a film coating on a paper substrate as a base coating for vacuum metallization the vacuum metallized base coating being characterized by a balanced combination of alkali removability, waterresistance, blockresistance, gloss, and metal adhesion. 2. An aqueous coating, which consists essentially of a surfactantfree aqueous emulsion containing a film forming polymer composite prepared by emulsion copolymerizing an acrylate monomer having a theoretical Tg of 55µ to 70 C with a vinyl polymerizable monomer having a theorical Tg of 50 to llO C selected from the group consisting of a methacrylate ester, styrene, or styrene derivative to give an acrylate containing polymer having a theoretical Tg of above 10 to 45 C, with the proviso that the acrylate containing polymer is not a polymer of 43 butyl acrylate and 57 methyl methacrylate, the polymerization being carried out in the presence of 25 40 by weight, based on the total weight of the monomers, of a fully neutralized colloid polymer soluble in water and having an actual Tg of 14 to 80 C, the colloid polymer being an ammonium salt of an acid containing polymer having a number average molecular weight of 2000 10,000 and consisting essentially of 10 40t by weight of acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, or mixtures thereof and 60 90t of a vinyl polymerizable monomer selected from the group consisting of an acrylate ester, methacrylate ester, styrene, styrene derivative, and ethylene, the monomer percentages being by weight and totaling 100 , with the proviso that the colloid polymer is not a polymer of 43t butyl acrylate, 43S methyl methacrylate, and 14S acrylic acid the polymer composite being present in the aqueous coating in an amount sufficient to form a film coating on a paper substrate as a base coating for vacuum metallization the vacuum metallized base coating being characterized by a balanced combination of alkali removability, waterresistance, blockresistance, gloss, and metal adhesion. 3. The coating of Claim 1, wherein the polymer composite is present in an amount of 20 507 by weight and wherein the acrylate monomer is butyl acrylate or 2 ethylhexyl acrylate and the acrylate containing polymer has the Tg of above 10 to 250C. 4. The coating of Claim 3, wherein the acrylate containing polymer has the Tg of about 5 to 15 C and comprises 35 50 of the acrylate monomer and 50 657 of the vinyl polymerizable monomer, the vinyl polymerizable monomer being selected from the group consisting of styrene, methyl methacrylate, isobutyl methacrylate and mixtures thereof. 5. The coating of Claim 4, wherein the acrylate containing polymer is 45 butyl acrylate and 55 methyl methacrylate SOL butyl acrylate and 50 methyl methacrylate 40 2 ethylhexyl acrylate and 60S styrene 40Z 2 ethylhexyl acrylate and 60 methyl methacrylate 50 butyl acrylate, 25t methyl methacrylate, and 25 styrene 50S butyl acrylate, 25 methyl methacrylate, and 25 isobutyl methacrylate or 40 2 ethylhexyl acrylate, 30 methyl methacrylate, and 30 styrene, the acrylate containing polymers having a Tg of 6 to 25µC. 6. The coating of Claim 1, wherein the colloid polymer has a Tg of 30 to 80 C and molecular weight of 2000 6000. 7. The coating of Claim i wherein the colloid polymer is 14S acrylic acid 43 , isobutyl methacrylate, and 43 methyl methacrylate 35 acrylic acid and 65 styrene or 20 acrylic acid and 802 ethylene. 8. The coating of Claim 1, wherein the film forming polymer composite consists essentially of the acrylate containing polymer of 40 50 butyl acrylate or 2 ethylhexyl acrylate and 50 60Z of styrene, methyl methacrylate, isobutyl methacrylate, or mixtures thereof having a Tg of 100 to 1sex and of the colloid polymer which is the ammonium salt of 10 40S of acrylic acid or methacrylic acid and 60 90 of styrene, butyl acrylate, butyl methacrylate, isobutyl acrylate, isobutyl methacrylate, methyl methacrylate, ethylene and mixtures thereof, the colloid polymer having a Tg of 30 to 80 C. 9. The coating of Claim 8, wherein the acrylate containing polymer has a Tg of 5 to 10 C and the colloid polymer has a Tg of about 80 C and a molecular weight of about 3000. 10. In a process for the vacuum metallization of a paper substrate, wherein the paper substrate is passed into a high vacuum metallization chamber in which a metallic vapor is deposited upon the paper substrate, the steps of a first applying, to a surface of the paper substrate to be metallized, a coating of the aqueous base coating of Claim 1 in an amount sufficient to form a continuous, smooth film of said polymer composite sufficient to cover substantially all fibrous paper material projecting from said surface b drying said coated paper substrate to substantially remove said water and ammonia from said ammonium salt and c metallizing the surface of said dried, coated paper substrate. 11 . A metallized paper product, which comprises a paper substrate coated on at least one side thereof with a smooth, continuous coating of the aqueous base coating of Claim 1, dried, and overcoated with a thin metallic layer applied by vacuum metallization.

## Description
AQUEOUS SURFACTANT FREE BASE COATING FOR METALLIZED PAPER This invention relates to improved aqueous base coatings for use on paper to be vacuum metallized. It also relates to the resulting improved metallized paper, such as bottle labels, prepared from the base coated paper and the process for their preparation. As used herein, the term paper includes sheet like masses made from the fibrous cellulosic materials which may be derived from both natural sources as well as from synthetics such as polyamides, polyesters, and polyacrylic resins and from mineral fibers such as asbestos and glass. In addition, papers made from combinations of cellulosic and synthetic materials are applicable herein. Paperboard is also included within the broad term paper Vacuum evaporation or metallization is a process in which an ultrathin layer of metal is deposited on a substrate such as plastic, glass, paper, and the like to achieve a metallic surface appearance. The bright, glossy appearance of metallized papers have lead to their use as decorative wraps and labels.Metallizing directly on paper, however, results in a totally unacceptable material, i.e., a paper with a dull surface.This is due to the rough texture of the paper surface, and even the most highly finished papers have microscopically rough surfaces. Since the deposited metal adheres directly to the surface of the substrate being metallized and also since the resulting metal coating thickness is about 250 300 Angstroms, it isn t surprising that direct metal deposition on paper yields an unacceptable product. Hence, the paper s surface is typically coated with a base coating which fills minor surface imperfections and provides a smooth surface to receive the metal deposit. Among the properties which are important in base coatings are adhesion, flake resistance i.e., resistance of the deposited metallized film to flake off or poor adhesion to the base coated paper when immersed in water for a period of 1 24 hours , water resistance uf to and including pH 9 , block resistance i.e., resistance to undesired adhesion between coated and uncoated surfaces such as that which occurs under moderate pressure or sometimes under pressure and heat , and alkali removability.While many of the base coatings currently used provide the smooth, hard but flexible surface needed to give a highly reflective surface when vacuum metallized, the metallized papers may be unsatisfactory in one or more of the following block resistance, flake resistance, water resistance, and alkali removability. Poor alkali removability is a major disadvantage for glass bottle labels since, in the recycling of the bottles, the entire label metallized surface and base coating s , as well as papers must be removed during treatment with a dilute hot alkali solution. The prior art base coatings have included 100t solids coatings, solvent based coatings also referred to as lacquers , and aqueousbased coatings. The use of 100 solids coatings, which require curing using ultraviolet or electron beam radiation, is expensive and also is not cost effective since production rates are reduced. Solvent based coatings suffer from the disadvantages inherent in the use of solvents, i.e., the high cost of the solvents and the fire hazard involved. Their use may also result in excessive penetration into the paper or board stock and may also give blocking problems. There is an industry desire, therefore, to use aqueous based coatings since they offer the advantages of lower cost, non flammability, and versatility in end use. The present aqueous coatings, i.e., aqueous coatings of solution polymers, surfactant stabilized emulsion polymers, and many surfactantfree emulsion polymers, all suffer from some disadvantages. The disadvantages of aqueous solution polymers are their low molecular weight and poor water , flake , and block resistance. Conventional surfactant stabilized polymer emulsions exhibit excessive penetration into some paper stocks which results in poor gloss when metallized. The metallized papers are also poorer in water resistance and flake resistance.Surfactant free emulsions stabilized with emulsifying colloids, such as polyvinyl alcohol and cellulosics, provide coatings that meet some of the desired end use properties however, the polymer coatings may be too soft and moisture sensitive, and the metallized paper would then have poor gloss, water resistance and or flake resistance. There is, therefore, a need for improved aqueous base coatings for use on paper to be vacuum metallized. The present invention provides an improved aqueous base coating for paper substrates to be vacuum metallized, which consists essentially of an aqueous emulsion containing an effective amount e.g., 20 50 by weight of a film forming polymer prepared by emulsion copolymerizing an acrylate monomer having a Tg of 55 to 700C e.g., butyl acrylate or 2 ethylhexyl acrylate with a vinyl polymerizable monomer having a Tg of 50 to 1100C e.g., methyl methacrylate, isobutyl methacrylate, styrene, or vinyl toluene to give an acrylate containing polymer having a theoretical Tg of above 100 to 45 C, the polymerization being carried out in the presence of 25 40 by weight, based on the weight of the monomers, of a water soluble colloid polymer having a Tg of 14 to 800C, the colloid polymer being the ammonium salt of an acid containing polymer having a number average molecular weight of about 2000 10,000 and consisting essentially of 10 40 of acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, or mixtures thereof and 60 90 of a vinyl polymerizable monomer other than an acid monomer e.g., styrene, butyl acrylate, butyl methacrlate, isobutyl acrylate, isobutyl methacrylate, methyl methacrylate, and or ethylene , the monomer percentages being by weight and totaling 100 . Preferably the acrylate containing polymer comprises 35 50 butyl acrylate or 2 ethylhexyl acrylate and 50 65 styrene, methyl methacrylate, isobutyl acrylate or mixtures thereof, the percentages being be weight and totaling 100 . The acrylate containing polymer preferably has a Tg of above 5 to 150C. Preferably the colloid polymer contains 14 35 acrylic acid and 65 86 styrene, butyl meth acrylate, methyl methacrylate and mixtures thereof. The colloid polymer preferably has a Tg of 30 to 800C, most preferably 800C, and a molecular weight of 2000 6000, most preferably 3000. Salts of the colloid polymer other than the ammonium salt can not be used. It is necessary that the salt contain a fugitive alkali so that the colloid polymer, after film formation, will not be water soluble and as a result cause the base coating to be water sensitive. The resulting composite polymer in the aqueous emulsion has a small particle size and may have a bimodal Tg, i.e., the Tg for the resulting polymer particles is a composite of the Tg of the colloid polymer used as a stabilizer in the emulsion polymerization and the Tg of the acrylate containing polymer. The theoretical Tg values of the acrylate containing polymers and the theoretical and actual Tg values of the colloid polymers are reported herein. It is possible to demonstrate the bimodalTg by thermogravimetric analysis where there is a measurable difference between Tg values for the acrylate polymer and colloid polymer.The composite is believed to consist of a soft inner core of the acrylatecontaining polymer e.g., butyl acrylate methyl methacrylate in a ratio of 50 60 50 40 by weight and a harder outer shell of the colloid polymer, which preferably has a Tg of 30 to 80 C, most preferably 80 C. However, the components of the composite may both have the same Tg e.g., 25 C . When both components have a high Tg it may be necessary to use a known coalescing solvent or to use a higher curing temperature to insure good film formation. Suitable coalescents are well known in the art and include solvents such a butoxy ethylene glycol acetate sold under the trade name Butyl Cellosolve Acetate by UnionCarbide Corp. , dipropylene glycol monomethyl ether sold under the trade name Dowanol PM by Dow Chemical Co. , or diethylene glycol ethyl ether sold under the trade name Ethyl Carbitol Use of the surfactant free aqueous coatings of the emulsion polymers herein provides base coatings that are characterized by a balanced combination of desirable properties namely alkali removability, waterresistance especially at pH 9 , block resistance, flake resistance, excellent gloss, and good metal adhesion. The improvements in the base coatings are affected by including the selected acid comonomers in the colloid polymer to impart the required balance of alkali removability and water resistance and by carrying out the polymerization of the core material in the presence of a large amount of the colloid polymer e.g., 20 40 wt. to provide surfactant free polymer emulsions. The use of conventional colloids such as polyvinyl alcohol results in a polymer emulsion which does not have good coating properties. The use of the acid containing colloid polymer as an emulsifying agent also contributes to the high gloss by improving the coating hold out i.e., the ability of the coating to minimally penetrate the substrate .The amount of acid in the polymer is important in providing good flake resistance the use of too much acid or the use of acids other than acrylic or methacrytic acid makes the coating water sensitive . The resulting aqueous emulsions are useful on all types of paper e.g., clay coated ground wood, wet strength paper, litho label stock as well as paperboard e.g., bleached sulfate board stock and clay coated board stock . The water resistance and flake resistance of basecoated papers which are poor in wet strength can be improved by including crosslinking agents such as a multifunctional polyaziridine sold under the trade name XAMA 2 from Cordova Chemical Co. , ammonium zirconium carbonate, or a polyamide epichlorohydrin adduct. Such crosslinking agents are well known in the art. Metallized papers prepared with the coatings herein were better than papers coated with aqueous surfactant stabilized emulsions or conventional surfactant free emulsions.They were comparable to or better than papers coated with lacquer coatings containing resins for improving the block resistance. The improved metallized paper herein is prepared by coating the surface of the paper substrate to be metallized with the base coating, drying the coated paper, and vacuum metallizing typically aluminizing the surface of the dried, coated paper substrate. The coating, drying and vacuum metallizing are carried out using conventional means wellknown to those skilled in the art. The coating weight should be suffi cient to provide a smooth, continuous base coating. With the more porous papers it may be desirable to precoat the paper substrate prior to application of the base coating herein. The drying conditions should be sufficient to insure substantially complete removal of the water and the fugitive alkali from the colloid polymer salt. The metallized papers herein are particularly suited for bottle labels due to their alkali removability and water resistance. Since the coated paper is water resistant, the labels will remain on the bottles when they are immersed in tap water typically about pH 7 9 , but will be easily, rapidly, and completely removed during recycling by washing in dilute hot alkaline solutions. The surfactant free aqueous emulsions herein are prepared in two steps. In the first step the colloid polymer is prepared by solution polymerizing the acrylic and or methacrylic acid monomer and other vinyl polymerizable monomer in a solvent or solvent water mixture to form a low molecular weight, alkali soluble polymer. The solution polymer is then neutralized with a fugitive alkali e.g., aqueous ammonium hydroxide to give a water soluble polymer salt. The preparation of the colloid polymers is described in Brit. Pat. No. 1,107,249 published 3 27 68 and assigned to S.C. Johnson and Son Inc. . In the second step the water soluble colloid polymer salt is then used as the sole emulsifier in the preparation of the acrylate containing emulsion polymer. The aqueous emulsions containing the composite polymers i.e., colloid polymer and acrylate containing emulsion polymer are unique in two ways they contain no surfactants and they contain high levels of colloid polymer 20 40 parts per 100 parts of polymer . The emulsion polymerization is carried out in a conventional manner. In the emulsion polymerization an initiator such as a redox initiator e.g., hydrogen peroxide and sodium metabisulfite or a thermal initiator e.g., persulfates is used. The actual use of the aqueous base coating compositions herein on paper substrates which are to be metallized may be accomplished by any technique capable of depositing a smooth, continuous resin film upon the surface of the paper substrate. The preferred procedures for the deposition of the coating are reverse roll and gravure. The coating weight required to fórm a suitable metallizable base coat may vary depending upon the substrate. It may also depend upon whether the substrate has been precoated and whether or not it is porous. The dry coating should be sufficiently thick to cover substantially all fibrous paper material projecting from the surface.Typically, for a precoated substrate from 0.91 2.7 kg. 278.7 m.2 2 6 lbs. 3000 ft.2 is required, with the optimum being 0.91 1.4 kg. 278.7 m.2 2 3 lbs. 3000 ft.2 , which may deposited in one or more applications. For an uncoated substrate from 0.91 3.63 kg. 278.7 m.2 2 8 lbs. 3000 ft.2 is required, with the optimum being 1.4 1.8 kg. 278.7 m.2 3 4 lbs. 3000 ft.2 . It may be desirable to precoat the paper substrate prior to the application of the base coating herein. This may reduce the amount of coating composition required and it can prevent excessive penetration of the base coating into the body of an excessively porous substrate.In addition, the precoat may tend to provide a smoother surface, which will affect the gloss of the metallized coating the smoother the surface, the better the gloss . Among the applicable materials which may be used for a precoat are various synthetic polymer latices used alone or in combination with pigments such as clay, calcium carbonate, and titanium dioxide. Water soluble colloids such as starch, alginates, casein, and polyvinyl alcohol can be used in combination with the above pigments as well as in combination, as a co binder for pigments, with various synthetic polymer latices. The precoat may be applied by means of any conventional coating apparatus, as well as by size press and from water boxes of a calender stack. Suitable paper substrates for use herein include both heavy and thin paper stocks, for example, bleached and unbleached sulfate Kraft , bleached and unbleached sulfite, bleached and unbleached soda, neutral sulfite, semi chemical and chemical groundwood, groundwood, and the like. The preferred substrates for metallized bottle labels include those with a clay coating or wet strength. The actual metallization of the base coated paper substrates may be accomplished, after the coating composition has been dried, by any conventional means. Preferably, the coated substrate is hot air dried for 0.5 2 minutes at 93 177 C 200 350 F with higher temperatures requiring shorter times. It may be air dried at room temperature for an extended period of time. The drying time will vary depending upon the thickness of the base coating. It is important to remove residual water otherwise problems such as picking or blocking may develop. The dried, coated paper substrate is then vacuum metallized.Vacuum metallization is well known and the detailed procedures will be apparent to those skilled in the art. A review of vapor deposition techniques may be found in Vapor Deposition, C.F. Powell, J.H. Oxley, and J.M. Blocker, Jr., eds., John Wiley Sons, Inc., New York 1966 .Typically, the coated paper substrate is unwound, exposed to the metallizing source under high vacuum, and rewound. The optimum vacuum level will depend upon the coating material and most often is 10 4 Torr. or less. The particular metal chosen will vary with the requirements of the practitioner. Suitable metals include zinc, cadmium, copper, silver, gold, and for bottle labels preferably aluminum. Evaporation sources which can be used in single or multiple chambers include an oven withIndirectly heated crucibles, an intermetallic boat heated by direct current, inductive evaporation, electron beam evaporation, and sputtering. In the examples which follow, all parts and percentages are given by weight and all temperatures are in degrees Celsius unless otherwise noted. The following testing procedures were used in the laboratory for a preliminary evaluation of the base coatings. 700 Specular Gloss This test is used to measure the gloss of the substrate. Gloss is the ratio of reflected light to incident light. The measurement is carried out using the ASTIR Standard Test Method For Specular Gloss ASTM D 523 80 using the 700 geometry. Higher readings indicate better gloss. Block Resistance This test determines the resistance to blocking of any two surfaces. The dried, coated paper substrate is cut to fit aluminum plates 1 x 1 7 64 x 1 16 in. 2.54 x 2.58 x 0.16 cm. and placed face to back between two aluminum plates. The assembled specimen is placed on a glass plate, weighted with a 2000 g. weight on the top 0.4 kg. crn.2 5 lbs. in.2 and heated in an oven at about 600C. 140 F. for 16 hrs. After removal from the oven, the weight is removed and the assembled specimen is allowed to cool to room temperature before being slowly peeled apart to check for blocking i.e., sticking . The block resistance is rated on a scale from 0 10, with highest value indicating excellent block resistance. The values are determined and rated as follows 10 Panels fall apart. 8 Papers pull apart with very little effort surface is unmarred. 6 Papers pull apart with some effort surface is unmarred. 4 Papers pull apart with some effort surface is mottled. 2 Papers pull apart with effort surface is marred and up to 20 can not be separated. 0 Papers can not be pulled apart. Caustic Penetration This test, which determines the amount of caustic solution that penetrates the coating, is used to approximate alkali removability.Pieces of the dried, coated paper samples 4 x 4 in. 10.16 x 10.16 cm. are taped to glass plates. Using an eye dropper, 5 drops of heated caustic 4 aqueous sodium hydroxide at 60 C 140 F. are placed in 3 spots on each paper sample. The time required for 100 penetration is recorded. Times less than 3 min. are excellent. Water Penetration at pH 9 This test, which studies the effect on the base coating of water at pH 9, is used to approximate the water resistance of the base coating. The test determines the amount of water that penetrates the base coating. It is carried out as above except a buffered aqueous solution pH 9 at room temperature is used. The samples are allowed to stand for 1 hr. before the surface is blotted dry and visually evaluated after turning over the glass plates. The penetration is rated as a percentage of surface wetness average wet area of 3 spots .The less the penetration, the better the water resistance. The penetration and corresponding ratings are as follows Penetration Rating 0 perfect 20 excellent 40 good 60 fair 80 poor 100X failed Flake Resistance This test, which determines the resistance to flaking of the metallized paper after water soaking, is used as an indication of metal adhesion. The metallized paper sample 4 x 4 in. 10.16 x 10.16 cm. is placed in a jar of distilled water for 1 hr. After removal, the metallized surface is rubbed 15 20 times using even thumb pressure. It is then dried with a blotter and examined for any flaking if necessary using a magnifying glass .The ratings are as follows 10 No flaking 8 Slight flaking s Moderate flaking 3 Severe flaking EXAMPLE I This example describes the preparation of the surfactant free aqueous polymer emulsions. Part A Preparation Of The Colloid Polymers Colloid A, a 65 styrene S 35 acrylic acid AA polymer was prepared by charging 20 g. tertiary butyl peroxide in 1000 g. propylene glycol monomethyl acetate, also referred to as methoxy propylene glycol acetate, sold by Dow Chemical Co. under the trade name Dowanol PMAcetate to a 3 1. 4 necked flask equipped with a stirrer, nitrogen purge inlet, condenser, and addition funnels. The charge was heated to reflux temperature 140 1450C , and a monomer charge of 650 g. styrene and 350 g. of acrylic acid was added concurrently with additional teritary butyl peroxide 60 g. over a period of 4 hr. The mixture was held for 1 hr. after completion of the monomer and initiator addition. The solvent was then removed by distillation at high temperature 150 160 C to leave a molten polymer containing 5 102 residual propylene glycol monomethyl acetate. On cooling this yielded a solid brittle resin. The resin was then dissolved in ammonia water to give a 25 solids solution with a viscosity in the range of 50 100 cps. at room temperature about 250C . Colloid B, a 43t isobutyl methacrylate IBMA 43 methyl methacrylate MMA 14 acrylic acid AA polymer, was prepared by charging 20 g.teritary butyl peroctoate in 230 g. isopropanol to a flask equipped as above. The charge was heated to reflux temperature 80 840C , and a monomer charge of 430 g. IBMA, 430 g. MMA, and 1.89 moles 140 g. 1.89 moles AA was added concurrently with addition of tertiary butyl peroctoate 30 g. over a 4 hr. period. The mixture was held for 1 hr.after completion of the monomer and initiator addition and then cooled to 50 C. The polymer was then rendered water soluble by adding a charge of 225 g. 3.5 moles ammonium hydroxide solution about 27 302 activeNH3 and 1775 g. water. The resulting polymer solution was a waterwhite viscous solution viscosity about 5000 cps. at 50 active solids which was completely miscible with water. The resulting colloid polymer had a molecular weight in the range of 3000 5000 4000 average . Colloid C, a 43 butyl acrylate BA 43X methyl methacrylate MMA 14 acrylic acid AA polymer, was prepared in the same manner asColloid B. The molecular weight of the resulting colloid polymer was in the same range. Colloid D, an 80 ethylene E 20 acrylic acid AA polymer, is available from Dow Chemical Corp. It is known as Dow EAA DispersibleResin 433 a solid or 483 an aqueous dispersion . It is reported to have a Vicat softening point of about 500C i.e., actual Tg and crystalline melting point of about 850C. The solid resin was dissolved in ammonia water to give a 25 solids solution having a viscosity in the range of 100 200 cps. at room temperature. The actual and theoretical Tg values for colloid polymers A, B, and C are given below. Part B Preparation Of The Surfactant Free Aqueous Polymer Emulsion The following charges were prepared A 620 g. of the Colloid A polymer solution, 5 g. ammonium hydroxide solution 30 active , 2 g. tertiary butyl hydroperoxide 70 active , 25 g. styrene and 25 g. butyl acrylate in 890 g. of water.B 2 g. sodium metabisulfite in 195 g. water.C 500 g. butyl acrylate BA , 500 g. styrene S , and 1 g. tertiary butyl hydroperoxide.Charge A was introduced to a reaction vessel equipped as above and the contents were purged with nitrogen. The temperature was raised to 650C and then charge B was slowly added over 4.5 hr. Once the reaction mixture reached 75 C., charge C was added slowly over 3.5 hr. while the temperature was maintained at 75 C. After the addition of charge B was completed, the contents were cooled to 300C and the active solids diluted to 45 by dilution with water. Using the above aqueous emulsion polymerization procedure and the indicated colloid polymer, additional surfactant free aqueous emulsions were prepared using butyl acrylate BA or 2 ethylhexyl acrylate 2 EHA with styrene S , methyl methacrylate MMA , and or isobutyl methacrylate IBMA . The monomer amounts were adjusted to give the weight percentages indicated. The theoretical Tg values for the polymers are indicated below.Emulsion Colloid Polymer Acrylate Polymer No. Compo Tg Uv7 Composition Tg C sition ctuaneoretica wt. a Theoretical 1 A 80 103 50 BA 50 S 1 2 A 80 103 45 BA 55 S 9 3 A 80 103 35 BA 65 E S 25 4 A 80 103 55 BA 45 S 6 5 A 80 103 45 BA 55 MMA 10 6 A 80 103 40 2 EHA 60 MMA 7 7 A 80 103 40t 2 EHA 60 S 6 8 A 80 103 402 2 EHA 30 6 MMA 30 S Emulsion Colloid Polymer Acrylate Polymer No.Compo Tg C Composition C sition Actual Theoretical wt. Theoretical 9 B 31 65 50t BA 50 MMA 2 10 B 31 65 50t BA 25 2 MMA 25 S 11 B 31 65 50t BA 25 6 MMAl25 IBMA 12 C 14 19 43 BA 57 MMA 13 13 D 50 72 60 MMA 40 2 EHA 6 A was 65 S and 35 AA B was 43 IBMA, 43X MMA, and 14 AA and C was 43 MMA, 43 BA, and 14 AA. EXAMPLE II The resulting emulsions which had solids contents of about 49 can be diluted with water to about 20 25t solids and used as a base coating for various papers. Using a wire wound rod, a thin wet film of the diluted emulsion was applied to one side of a paper sheet. The coated paper was air dried and then oven dried for 5 min. at 1000C unless indicated otherwise. The coatings were made at 1.1 kg. 278.7 m.2 2.5 lb. 3000 ft.2 . The dry base coated paper was evaluated. The results for the indicated emulsions are shown in Table I. For comparison a vinyl acetate lacquer coating containing an anti blocking additive was evaluated. Comparable results are expected with the aqueous surfactant free emulsions of Example I which were not evaluated.The following papers were coated No. 1 Clay coated groundwood commonly known as No. 5 publication grade basis weight of 18 20 kg. 40 45 lb. No. 2 Wet strength label stock commonly used in Europe basis weight of 22 kg. 48 lb. No. 3 Litho label stock paper supplied by Newton Falls Paper Co. basis weight of 25 kg. 55 1b. No. 4 Bleached sulfate board stock supplied by Potlach basis weight of 82 kg. 180 lb. No. 5 Clay coated board stock supplied by Champion basis weight of 122 kg. 270 lb. TABLE I Aqueous Block Caustic Surfactant Paper 70 Resis Remov pH 9 WaterFree Emulsion No. Gloss tance ability Resistance sec. No. 1 1 78 10 5 0 2 80 10 10 0 3 84 10 10 0 4 90 10 10 0 5 92 10 20 0No. 3a. 1 74b. 10 5 100b. 2 78b. 10 5 ob. 3 82b. 10 5 40b.No. 5 1 86 10 5 0c. 2 88 10 10 gd. 3 84 10 10 nd. 4 96 10 10 gd. 5 94 10 10 gd. No. 6 1 80 10 5 0 2 82 10 5 0 3 78 10 5 0 4 84 9 5 0 5 90 10 10 0No. 7 1 88 10 5 0c. 2 88 10 10 gd, 3 88 9 10 0 4 92 9 10 od 5 94 10 10 0c.No. 8 1 76 10 5 0 2 82 10 5 20 3 86 10 5 20 4 96 9 5 0 5 94 10 5 0No. 9 1 82 10 5 0 2 82 10 10 0 3 80 9 10 0 4 92 10 20 60 5 94 5 20 100 TABLE I continued Aqueous Block Caustic Surfactant Paper 700 Resis Remov pH 9 WaterFree Emulsion No. Gloss tance ability Resistance Sec. No. 10 1 86 10 5 0 2 88 8 10 0 3 84 9 10 0 4 96 10 20 20 5 94 10 20 40No. 11 1 74 10 5 0 2 86 8 10 0 3 78 9 10 0 4 90 10 20 60 5 88 10 5 100No. 12 1 78 8 5 0 2 84 10 10 0 3 78 9 10 0 4 88 10 20 0 5 90 10 20 0Vinyl Acetate 1 82 10 10 0 Solvent coating 2 84 10 10 0 3 84 7 10 0 4 96 10 10 0 5 92 8 10 0 a. Emulsion contained s butyl celiosolve acetate as a coalescent.b. Wet film was applied as a double pass. The first coating was flash dried and the substrate was recoated and oven cured for 2 min. at 1490C 3000F . c. Wet film was applied as in b. but oven cured for 2 min. at 1240C 2550F . d. Wet film was not air dried prior to curing at 1240C. The results for samples coated with emulsions Nos. 1, 5, 6, 7 and 8 show that all of the base coated papers had good gloss indicating that an acceptably smooth glossy metallic finish can be expected. The block resistance was excellent. The caustic removability was excellent for all the paper bases. The water resistance was excellent on most of the papers when air dried prior to the final heating however, for some polymer composites it was necessary to heat the coating immediately to fuse i.e., form the film or to use a double pass followed by immediate heating to insure good film formation. The papers coated with the surfactant free aqueous coatings were comparable to the solvent based vinyl acetate coating which contained a resin to improve the block re resistance. The results for the samples coated with emulsions Nos. 9 12 show that the polymers stabilized with lower Tg colloids provided satisfactory base coatings with excellent gloss, flexibility, good to excellent block resistance, and excellent alkali removability. The water resistance was excellent on all paper stocks normally used for labels and only fair on most of the clay coated board stocks. It should be possible to improve the water resistance by using a harder colloid polymer i.e., Tg of 80 C or by using a double pass or immediate heat curing as was done with Nos. 5 and 7. EXAMPLE II This example shows that papers coated with conventional aqueous polymer emulsions that were stabilized with a surfactant or conventional colloid were deficient in one or more properties. The surfactant free aqueous emulsion designated No. 1 50 BA 50Z S polymer with a theoretical Tg of 1 C stabilized with the 800C Tg colloid is included for comparison. The coatings and paper results are shown in Table II. TABLE II pH 9 Block Caustic Water Flake Paper 700 Resis Remov Resis Resis Polymer No. Gloss tance ability tance tance sec. 77 Surfactant free 1 78 10 5 0 8 aqueous polymer 2 80 10 10 0 10 emulsion No. 1 of 3 84 10 10 0 8 Example I 50 BA 50 S Tg of 10C stabilized with colloid polymer of 65 S 35 AA Tg of 80 OC Surfactant free 1 18 8 10 100 2 aqueous polymer 2 20 8 10 60 4 emulsion of Vinyl 3 18 8 10 100 4Acetate Tg of 290C stabilized with polyvinyl alcohol comparative Sufactant stabilized 1 50 0 5 20 6 aqueous polymer 2 82 0 5 0 6 emulsion of 30 MMA 20 3 78 0 5 20 6 S 45 BA 5 MM Tg of 200C stabilized with sodium lauryl sulfate surfactant comparative After vacuum metallization with aluminum. The results show that the vinyl acetate polymer that contained no plasticizing monomer i.e., acrylate and that was prepared with a colloid stabilizer polyvinyl alcohol was very poor in gloss and also poor in water resistance and flake resistance. The surfactant stabilized methyl methacrylate styrene butyl acrylate methacrylic acid polymer was better in gloss but unsatisfactory in block resistance. Only the surfactant free aqueous polymer emulsion of the present invention, which is stabilized with the colloid polymer, was satisfactory in gloss, water resistance, and flake resistance. In summary, the present invention provides improved aqueous base coatings for paper substrates that are to be vacuum metallized.