# COMPOSITION AND METHOD FOR THE DECTECTION OF THE PRESENCE OF A POLYNUCLEOTIDE SEQUENCE OF INTEREST

## Claims
Mittel zum Nachweis einer Polynucleotidsequenz von Interesse in einer Probe, die Polynucleotidsequenzen enthalten kann, die nicht von Interesse sind, umfassend

## Description
The present invention relates to a wide range of genetic analyses using the technique of nucleic acid hybridization. These genetic analyses include, for example, the diagnosis of infections by foreign microbes and the detection of specific genetic traits and abnormalities. More specifically, the present invention is related to the detection of the presence of a polynucleotide sequence of interest. A general method for the detection of a polynucleotide sequence of interest in a sample comprises This method is often not useful when 1 said composition further comprises a second polynucleotide sequence which, either in the same molecule or a separate molecule, is not substantially complementary to said polynucleotide sequence of interest and which is labeled with said detectable marker and 2 said polynucleotide sequence of interest is potentially contained in a sample that comprises polynucleotide sequences not of interest. When both conditions 1 and 2 are present, any signal detection is ambiguous as to whether said polynucleotide sequence of interest is detected or some polynucleotide sequences not of interest but hybridizable to said labeled second polynucleotide sequence are detected. As an example, condition 1 presents itself quite naturally when said first polynucleotide sequence is produced by recombinant nucleic acid technology. Recombinant nucleic acid technology allows economic large scale production of said first polynucleotide sequence concommitant with a second polynucleotide sequence which is not substantially complementary to the polynucleotide sequence of interest, the vector sequence in this instance, on the same molecule, i.e. the recombinant molecule. Often, it is easier or more economical to label the entire recombinant molecule than to label exclusively said first polynucleotide sequence. However, this also produces a labeled second polynucleotide sequence, i.e. the vector sequence in this instance, which is not substantially complementary to said polynucleotide of interest. As another example, condition 1 presents itself when said first polynucleotide sequence is inserted, along with a second polynucleotide sequence not substantially complementary to the polynucleotide sequence of interest, into a vector to form a single recombinant molecule. This is due to the fact that it is difficult or inconvenient to separate the first polynucleotide sequence from the second polynucleotide sequence or that the boundary between said first polynucleotide sequence and said second polynucleotide sequence is not known. Thus, in either of the two above examples, when the method for the detection of the polynucleotide sequence of interest is carried out, the labeled second polynucleotide sequence is capable of hybridizing to a complementary polynucleotide sequence that may be contained in the sample, i.e. condition 2 is present. This can generate a false positive result. WO 83 0149 discloses a method for the diagnosis of microorganisms by sandwich hybridization of nucleic acids. EP A 0 076 123 discloses a method of characterizing an unknown organism which comprises comparing the chromatographic pattern of restriction endonuclease digested DNA from said organism, which digested DNA has been hybridized or reassociated with ribosomal RNA information containing nucleic acid from or derived from a probe organism, with equivalent chromatographic patterns of at least two known different organism species. It is the object of the present invention to provide a composition comprising polynucleotide sequences and a method to use the same, which is effective in 1 detecting the presence or absence of a specific polynucleotide sequence of interest in a sample and 2 discriminating between the presence of said polynucleotide sequence of interest from the presence of polynucleotide sequences not of interest which may be contained in the sample. The present invention provides a composition for detecting a polynucleotide sequence of interest in a sample which may contain polynucleotide sequences not of interest, which comprises The present invention further provides a method, for the detection of a polynucleotide sequence of interest in the potential or actual presence of polynucleotide sequences not of interest in a sample to be examined, which comprises The present invention is related to the detection of a polynucleotide sequence of interest. Preferably, the present invention is related to the detection of a polynucleotide sequence of interest in a diagnostic sample. The polynucleotide sequence of interest can be any polynucleotide sequence present naturally in a sample or added to the sample. It can be in a material in or derived from a cellular system. It can be a subcellular component as virus or viroid or virus like particule. It can be a deoxyribonucleic acid sequence or a ribonucleic acid sequence. It can be single stranded or double stranded. It can be derived from a pathogen. It can be a sequence of a prokaryote, such as The present invention is related to compositions of polynucleotide sequences that are useful in nucleic acid hybridizations. The compositions comprise a first polynucleotide sequence which is substantially complementary to and capable of hybridizing to a specific polynucleotide sequence of interest and which is labeled with a first detectable marker a second polynucleotide sequence that is not substantially complementary to or substantially identical to said polynucleotide sequence of interest and that is labeled with said first detectable marker and a third polynucleotide sequence that is substantially complementary to or substantially identical to said second polynucleotide sequence and that is unlabeled or labeled with a second detectable marker. The first and second polynucleotide sequences can be present as separate molecules or can be covalently linked. The third polynucleotide sequence is present as a separate molecule. The first, second and third polynucleotide sequences of the compositions of the present invention can be deoxyribonucleic acid or ribonucleic acid sequences and can be either single stranded or double stranded molecules. The polynucleotide sequences can be produced or obtained by any method known to those of ordinary skill in the art, e.g., synthetic production methods or enzymatic production methods, both When the method of the invention is carried out, the presence of the third polynucleotide sequence in the compositions of the invention serves to block the hybridization of the second polynucleotide sequence to any polynucleotide sequences not of interest in the sample being examined, which nevertheless are substantially complementary to said second polynucleotide sequence. This blocking action limits the liklihood that the second polynucleotide sequence will generate a false positive result. In one embodiment of the invention, the first polynucleotide sequence, that is substantially complementary to and capable of hybridizing to the polynucleotide sequence of interest, is cloned into a vector by standard recombinant nucleic acid technology to form a recombinant molecule. Thus, the recombinant molecule comprises the first polynucleotide sequence and the second polynucleotide sequence, i.e. the vector in this embodiment of the invention. The vector can be a plasmid, a cosmid, a bacterial virus or an animal virus. The vector can be ribonucleic acid or deoxyribonucleic acid. The vector can be single stranded or double stranded. The first polynucleotide sequence, which is part of the recombinant molecule, can be produced economically in large quantities inside hosts, for example, For detection of the polynucleotide sequence of interest in a sample to be examined, it is desirable to label the first polynucleotide sequence present in the recombinant molecule with a first detectable marker. This can be done in more than one way. In one method, the first polynucleotide sequence is largely separated from the vector by, for example, cutting the recombinant molecule with a restriction enzyme followed by agarose gel electrophoresis, extracted and labeled. Thus, substantially only the first polynucleotide sequence and not the vector is labeled. In a second and more economical method the entire recombinant molecule is labeled. This method can be carried out by, for example, nick translation using DNAse I and DNA Polymerase I in the presence of labeled nucleoside triphosphates. Rigby, P. W. et. al., J. Mol. Biol. 113 237 1977 . This results in the recombinant molecule, i.e. the first and second polynucleotide sequences, being uniformly labeled. The second method avoids numerous drawbacks incurred by the first method. At best, the first method is extremely tedious each step is very time consuming, especially the step of gel electrophoresis. Often the step of gel electrophoresis needs to be repeated to insure purity of the separation of the first polynucleotide sequence. Even so, the first polynucleotide sequence may still be contaminated by trace amounts of the second polynucleotide sequence, i.e. the vector sequence. In such a case, the present invention provides a benefit. Furthermore, the inherent properties of the recombinant molecules may be such that the first and second polynucleotide sequences can not be easily separated. For example, if the first polynucleotide sequence were of the same or similar size as the second polynucleotide sequence, then the separation of such two polynucleotide sequences may not be feasible. If the method of choice for labeling the first polynucleotide sequence causes the second polynucleotide sequence to be labeled also, and if polynucleotide sequences complementary to the second polynucleotide sequence are contained in the sample being examined, the interpretation of results of analysis based on the detection of labeled and hybridized polynucleotide sequences becomes problematic. The second polynucleotide sequence is capable of generating a false positive result. In this embodiment of the invention, wherein the entire recombinant molecule is labeled, the compositions of the invention comprise a third polynucleotide sequence. The third polynucleotide sequence is either unlabeled or labeled with a second detectable marker and is substantially complementary to or substantially identical to the second polynucleotide sequence. The presence of the third polynucleotide sequence in the compositions of the invention serves to block the hybridization of the second polynucleotide sequence to any polynucleotide sequences not of interest in the sample being examined, which nevertheless are substantially complementary to said second polynucleotide sequence. It is believed that this blocking action is achieved in either or both of two ways. First, the third polynucleotide sequence, being substantially complementary to said second polynucleotide sequence, can hybridize with the second polynucleotide sequence if said second and third polynucleotide sequences are rendered single stranded and allowed to contact under conditions that permit hybridization. Second, the third polynucleotide sequence, being substantially identical to the second polynucleotide sequence, can hybridize to any polynucleotide sequences not of interest but complementary to the second polynucleotide sequence and present in the sample being examined. It is believed that either of these blocking actions inhibit the liklihood of the generation of a false positive result. In another embodiment of the invention, the first polynucleotide sequence, which is substantially complementary to and capable of hybridizing to the polynucleotide sequence of interest, is covalently linked in the chromosome to the second polynucleotide sequence that is not substantially complementary or substantially identical to the polynucleotide sequence of interest, but which can potentially be substantially complementary to polynucleotide sequences not of interest in the sample being examined. The first polynucleotide sequence and the second polynucleotide sequence can have a single boundary or multiple boundaries. The boundaries can be known or unknown. In some instances, it is difficult at best and generally impossible to isolate said first polynucleotide sequence from said second polynucleotide sequence. Consequently, it is preferable to label both the first and second polynucleotide sequences. A specific example of this embodiment of the present invention is wherein the first polynucleotide sequence is a polynucleotide sequence specific for genetic material of The third polynucleotide sequence can be provided in one of several ways. For example, a recombinant molecule consisting of a vector and an inserted polynucleotide sequence, isolated from In another specific example of this embodiment of the present invention, the specific polynucleotide sequence of interest is a sequence specific for herpes simplex virus I. The first polynucleotide sequence is specific for herpes simplex virus I DNA. The second polynucleotide sequence which is labeled is a sequence specific for herpes simplex virus I DNA and herpes simplex virus II DNA. The third polynucleotide sequence which is not labeled is a sequence substantially complementary to or substantially identical to said second polynucleotide sequence, i.e. that portion of herpes simplex virus II DNA that is specific for herpes simplex virus I DNA and herpes simplex virus II DNA, if known. Said third polynucleotide sequence can be provided, for example, by including in the composition, total genomic herpes simplex virus II DNA. This composition permits the detection of the specific polynucleotide sequence of interest, i.e. herpes simplex virus I DNA and inhibits the liklihood of the second polynucleotide sequence from detecting herpes simplex virus II DNA. Further non limiting examples of this embodiment of the present invention are listed in Table I below In a third embodiment of the invention, the first polynucleotide sequence, i.e. the polynucleotide sequence that is substantially complementary to and capable of hybridizing to the polynucleotide sequence of interest, is produced inside hosts as an extrachromosomal polynucleotide sequence. The second polynucleotide sequence is the host polynucleotide sequence. The first polynucleotide sequence can be substantially purified by standard methods. However, it may be contaminated with a trace amount of the second polynucleotide sequence, i.e. the host polynucleotide sequence. Thus, when the first polynucleotide sequence is labeled with a first detectable marker, a trace amount of the host polynucleotide sequence is also labeled. If the sample to be examined contains polynucleotide sequences complementary to the second polynucleotide sequence, i.e. the host polynucleotide sequence, a false positive result can be generated. To prevent this undersirable result, the composition of the invention provides a third polynucleotide sequence which, in this embodiment, is the host sequence that is not labeled with said first detectable marker. A specific example of this embodiment of the present invention is wherein the first polynucleotide sequence is an enteroinvasive plasmid, which is grown in Of course, in certain embodiments of the present invention, the three embodiments discussed above, namely, the second polynucleotide sequence as a vector sequence, the second polynucleotide sequence as a sequence chromosomally linked to the first polynucleotide sequence and the second polynucleotide sequence as a host polynucleotide sequence can be combined. The third polynucleotide sequence, which is not labeled with the first detectable marker, can comprise a sequence which is substantially complementary or substantially identical to said vector sequence and said sequence which is chromosomally linked to said first polynucleotide sequence, and a polynucleotide host sequence. Also, in certain embodiments of the present invention only two of the three embodiments discussed are combined. Experiments were performed to determine the optimal size distribution of the third polynucleotide sequence in the compositions provided by the present invention. It is believed that the third polynucleotide sequence fragments can be essentially any length, provided that the fragments are long enough to form a stable hybrid. However, a preferred embodiment of the invention is wherein the third polynucleotide sequence fragments are from about 50 to about 250 nucleotides in length. These short fragments are preferably produced by controlled digestion with DNAse I. Alternatively, sonication or digestion with other suitable nucleases can be used. Experiments were also performed to determine the appropriate amount of third polynucleotide sequence in the composition of the present invention. It was found that the higher the amount of third polynucleotide sequence in the composition, the more effective said composition was in blocking the signal generated by the first detectable marker on the second polynucleotide sequence. The amount of third polynucleotide sequence to be utilized is dependent upon how the method of the invention is carried out, as discussed hereinbelow. A labeled polynucleotide sequence in this invention means a polynucleotide sequence which is labeled with a detectable marker. Any detectable markers now in use in the art of nucleic acid hybridization or to be developed in the future can be used. The choice of detectable markers, is not critical to the present invention. Suitable detectable markers include radioactive nuclides chemical markers including biotinated moieties, antigens, sugars, fluors and phosphors, enzymes, apoenzymes and cofactors, ligands, allosteric effectors, ferritin, dyes, microspheres. A first detectable marker is said to differ from a second detectable marker in the context of the present invention whenever an effective method exists and is used, that discriminates said first detectable marker from said second detectable marker. For example, ³H and ³²P are both radioactive markers. They are different detectable markers in the context of programmed scintillation counting that discriminate higher energy disintegrations of ³²P from low energy disintegration from ³H. They are not different detectable markers if the scintillation counting does not discriminate the energy of disintegration. Another example is provided by the following pair of labeled polynucleotide sequences A is a polynucleotide sequence labeled with biotinylated nucleotides B is a polynucleotide sequence labeled at the 3 terminus with poly T. A is detected by an avidin horseradish peroxidase complex which generates a color in the presence of a suitable chromogen substrate. This method is disclosed in copending co assigned U.S. Patent Applications Serial No 574,632, filed January 26. 1984, now abandoned, and Serial No. 461,469, filed January 27, 1983, which was abandoned in favor of continuation in part Serial No. 732.374, filed May 9. 1985, which was abandoned in favor of Serial No. 385.986, filed July 20, 1989, which issued as U.S. Patent No. 4,994,373 on February 19, 1991, the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. The European counterpart to Serial No. 574,632 was published as EP 124,124 on November 7, 1984 for Serial No. 461,469, the European counterpart was published as EP 117,440 on September 5, 1984. B is detected indirectly through a biotinylated poly A polynucleotide bridge. The biotin contained in said poly A polynucleotide is detected by said avidin horseradish peroxidase complex in the presence of said chromogen substrate. This method is disclosed in co pending, co assigned U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 491,929, filed May 5, 1983, which was abandoned in favor of Serial No. 607,787, filed October 26. 1990. The European counterpart to Serial No. 491,929 was published as EP 128,332 on December 19, 1984. The detection of A and B is separated. If, in fact, the detection of A and B is separated, then A and B are different detectable markers. If, in fact, the detection of A and B is not separated, then A and B are not different detectable markers, The present invention also relates to methods of using the compositions of the present invention. The compositions can be used in all nucleic acid hybridization procedures. These procedures include, but are not limited to two phase hybridization and one phase hybridization. Examples of two phase hybridization are hybridization The genetic material of the sample to be examined is prepared as called for in the particular procedure being used, which is or will be known to a person of ordinary skill in the art. These procedures result in at least a portion of the genetic material of the sample being in single stranded form, but preferably substantially all of the genetic material of the sample is in single stranded form. At least a portion of the polynucleotide sequences of the compositions of the invention are rendered in single stranded form. However, it is highly preferred that said polynucleotide sequences be rendered in substantially single stranded form because polynucleotide sequences in duplex form generally do not participate in hybridization. Each component, namely, the first polynucleotide sequence, the second polynucleotide sequence and the third polynucleotide sequence can be rendered in substantially single stranded form singly or together in any combination. The polynucleotide sequences in said composition, thus rendered in single stranded form, are utilized to contact the prepared genetic material of the sample to be examined, which has been rendered in single stranded form, under conditions that permit hybridization. It is highly preferred that the third polynucleotide sequence be allowed to contact the prepared sample prior to, or at substantially the same time as the second polynucleotide sequence. Otherwise, given time during which the third polynucleotide sequence is absent, the second polynucleotide sequence can hybridize to complementary polynucleotide sequences not of interest, if present, in the sample being examined. This would defeat the purpose of including the third polynucleotide sequence in the composition and generate a false positive result upon detection of the first detectable marker. Within this preferred condition, there are three preferred embodiments for practicing the method of the invention. In the first preferred embodiment of the method of the invention the first, second and third polynucleotide sequences of the composition are contacted with the sample to be examined at about the same time. In this embodiment it is preferred that the third polynucleotide sequence is present in the composition in an amount by weight from about 100 to about 1000 fold greater than the amount of the second polynucleotide sequence in the composition. Amounts greater than about 1000 fold blocked essentially no more of the second polynucleotide sequence. However, if the sample contains a greater amount of polynucleotide sequence not of interest, but capable of hybridizing to the second polynucleotide sequence than the amount of second polynucleotide sequence in the composition, then the third polynucleotide sequence should be present in an amount by weight from about 100 to about 1000 fold greater than the amount of the polynucleotide sequence not of interest but capable of hybridizing to the second polynucleotide sequence. As a practical matter, the latter situation is very rarely of concern. In the second preferred embodiment of the method of the invention, the first, second and third polynucleotide sequences are allowed to contact each other in solution and hybridize for a substantial amount of time so that the hybridization of the second polynucleotide sequence is substantially complete and that the hybridization of the first polynucleotide sequence is not. In this embodiment it is preferred that the third polynucleotide sequence be present in the composition in an amount by weight from about 100 to about 1000 fold greater than the amount of the second polynucleotide sequence in the composition. This excess of the third polynucleotide sequence accelerates the hybridization of the second polynucleotide sequence without accelerating the renaturation of the first polynucleotide sequence. With respect to the extra time required and the extra step necessary to obtain a result, this embodiment is less preferred. But this embodiment of the invention is more preferred if the sample to be examined contains sigificant amounts of polynucleotide sequences not of interest but capable of hybridizing to the second polynucleotide sequence. This is because the second polynucleotide sequence in the composition has already hybridized substantially to completion and can not hybridize to any polynucleotide sequence in the sample. In the third preferred embodiment of the method of the invention, the third polynucleotide sequence of the composition is allowed to contact with and hybridize substantially to completion with the genetic material in the sample to be examined prior to the contacting of the second polynucleotide sequence with the genetic material in the sample. In this embodiment it is preferred that the third polynucleotide sequence be present in the composition in an amount by weight from about 10 fold to about 100 fold greater than the amount of the polynucleotide sequence not of interest but capable of hybridizing to the second polynucleotide sequence in the composition. This amount is generally sufficient to hybridize with all polynucleotide sequences not of interest but capable of hybridizing to the second polynucleotide sequence in the composition. This embodiment is not preferred with respect to the extra time required and the extra step necessary to obtain a result. But it is preferred with respect to the quantity of the third polynucleotide sequence required for the composition when the sample to be examined contains significant amounts of polynucleotide sequence not of interest but capable of hybridizing to the second polynucleotide sequence. At the end of the hybridization reaction, the stable hybrid genetic material formed is detected by means of the first detectable marker. In certain embodiments of this invention, after the hybridization reaction is over, the detection step requires a separation step which separates that part of the composition which has hybridized to the sample being examined from that part which has not. Such separation can be carried out by a wash step. For example, the sample to be examined is immobilized on a nitrocellulose filter. Biotinylated nucleotides are used to label the first and second polynucleotide sequences. At the end of the hybridization reaction, the nitrocellulose filter is washed so that unhybridized sequences in the composition are removed. The biotinylated nucleotides contained in the molecules which are bound to the immobilized target are then detected by any suitable means. In certain embodiments of this invention, after hybridization is over. a separation step is not necessary in the detection process. For example, this is the case when the detectable marker used is an asymmetric chemiluminescent emitter absorber system. In this embodiment, a signal is generated only if the labeled polynucleotide sequences in the composition have hybridized with substantially complementary sequences in the sample being examined. This method of detection is disclosed in European Patent Publication 0 070 685, published January 26. 1983. Another example utilizes agglutinable microsphere as the detectable marker. This method is disclosed in co pending, co assigned U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 605.022, filed April 27, 1984, which was abandoned in favor of continuation in part Serial 653,816, filed September 24, 1986, which was abandoned in favor of Serial No. 5.327, filed January 15, 1987, which issued as U.S. Patent No. 4,894,325 on January 16, 1990. The European counterpart to Serial No. 605.022 was published as EP 159,719 on October 30, 1985. The third polynucleotide sequence of the composition can, if so desired, be labeled with a second detectable marker. It is then possible to detect any third polynucleotide sequence that hybridizes with the genetic material in the sample, and, by inference, the presence of a polynucleotide sequence not of interest but capable of hybridizing to the second polynucleotide sequence of the composition. Such detection can give a benefit if the quantity of said polynucleotide sequence not of interest in the sample is large, as indicated by the signal generated by the second detectable marker, it may become necessary to re assess the significance of a positive result, if any, from the first detectable marker. This is because some fraction of the second polynucleotide sequence may have hybridized to said polynucleotide sequence not of interest in the sample and contributed to the signal from the first detectable marker. The following examples are offered by way of illustration and not by way of limitation. In this example of the invention, a model system was used to demonstrate the detection of a polynucleotide sequence of interest, a 9 kilobase DNA fragment of The plasmid pCHL2 consists of a 9 kilobase BamH I fragment from Sonicated pCHL2 plasmid DNA at a concentration of 220ug ml in 10mM Tris HCl pH 7.5, 0.1mM EDTA was denatured by the addition of NaOH to a final concentration of 0.5M. A volume of 1M Tris HCl pH 7.5 equal to that of the alkaline DNA solution was added to neutralize the solution. 20X SSC was then added to a final concentration of 2X SSC, 1X SSC 0.15M NaCl, 0.015M Na citrate pH 7.0 . An amount equivalent to 2µg of DNA was then applied to each of 30 points on a nitrocellulose filter previously wetted with distilled water at 65 C. and then soaked in 6X SSC using a minifold dot blot apparatus. Each well was rinsed with 200 µl of 2X SSC, and the filter was then air dried and baked for 2 hours at 80 pCHL2 was digested with the restriction enzyme BamH I, and the resulting fragments separated on an 0.5 low melting temperature agarose gel. The band corresponding in size to 9.0 kb was cut from the gel, and the DNA extracted from the gel slice using sodium iodide and powdered flint glass as described by Vogelstein and Gillespie Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA To 2 µg of DNA in 10mM Tris HCl pH 7.4, 0.1mM EDTA, was added 10 µl of 10X nick translation buffer 0.5M Tris HCl pH 7.5, 0.05M MgCl₂, 0.1M Beta mercaptoethanol, 0.5 mg ml bovine serum albumin and distilled water to a total volume of 85 µl. To this was added 1 µl of DNase I freshly diluted 5000 fold in 1X nick translation buffer from a 1 mg ml stock solution . The reaction was incubated at 37 1 µl each of 100mM dATP and dTTP was then added to the reaction mixture on ice followed by 50 mCi of either ³H or ³²P dCTP and dGTP. The reaction mixture was incubated at 14 Pure chlamydia fragment DNA was nick translated with ³²P labeled nucleotides to a specific activity of 2.1 x 10⁷ cpm µg and pBR322 was nick translated with ³H labeled nucleotides to a specific activity of 3 x 10⁶ cpm µg. 31 µg of pBR322 in 145 µl of T.E. 10mM Tris HCl, 0.1mM EDTA pH 7.5 was degraded to molecules of size varying from about 25 to about 125 base pairs using DNase I digestion. DNase I was stored at 20 Nitrocellulose filters with sample DNA or control filters were pre hybridized in batches of 30 discs in 250 ml beakers containing 50 ml of prehybridization solution at 65 Hybridizations were carried out in 1.5 ml Eppendorf tubes in a total volume of 500 µl and contained 3X SSC, 5X Denhardt s, 0.1 SDS and 100 µg ml calf thymus DNA. Tubes 1 to 16 received a nitrocellulose filter disc with pCHL2 DNA. Tubes 17 to 32 received control discs with no target sequence. Unlabeled, DNase I digested pBR322 DNA was boiled for 5 to 7 minutes and then placed on ice. It was added to tubes 1 to 16 and 17 to 32 in amounts by weight representing 0, 5, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100, 150, 200, 500 and 1000 fold excess over the amount of ³H labeled pBR322 DNA. 1.25 x 10⁵ cpm of boiled ³H labeled DNA was added to each of the hybridizations, representing the ng of DNA contained in 53 µl. The same number of cpm of ³²P labeled chlamydia DNA was added in a volume of 6.0 µl. Hybridizations were allowed to proceed at 65 Each filter was washed quickly, 3 times with 2X SSC, 0.1 SDS at 65 A second channel was set to detect high energy ³²P disintegrations in the range of 500 to 1000. Under these conditions, spill over into the first channel by ³²P counts was 1.65 that of the second channel counts and spillover into the second channel by ³H counts was less than 0.1 that of the first channel. In the example of the invention, it was demonstrated that any amount of unlabeled pBR322 that has been digested by DNase I to a size varying from about 25 to about 125 nucleotides in length was more effective than the same amount of unlabeled, full length linear pBR322 in blocking the hybridization of labeled pBR322 DNA to its complementary sequence target. The same plasmids cited in Example I, namely, pCHL2, pBR322 were used. The 9 kilobase DNA fragment from The entire plasmid pCHL2, containing the vector sequence pBR322 and Filters, either discs containing chlamydia fragment DNA, squares in containing pBR322 DNA or control discs with no target DNA, were pre hybridized in batches as described previously in Example I. Hybridizations were carried out in a volume of 500 ul in 1.5ml Eppendorf tubes as in Example I. 8.8ng of nick translated pCHL2 DNA 1.25 x 10⁵ cpm was added to each hybridization. The first 26 hybridizations each contained one circular and one square filter. In addition, unlabeled, DNased pBR322 DNA or BamH I digested pBR322 DNA was added in varying amounts and corresponding to a 0, 5, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100, 150, 200, 500 or 1000 fold excess by weight over the labeled probe. 26 control hybridizations were set up in the same way except that one nitrocellulose filter which contained no target DNA sequence was added to each hybridization. Hybridization and washing conditions were as previously described in Example I. Filters were dried and each filter counted separately in a scintillation counter. This example illustrates how a recombinant plasmid, consisting of a DNA fragment from pAL1 consists of a 1.1kb fragment of Chromosomal DNA from Plasmid pAL1 DNA was labeled by nick translation as described previously in Example I using four ³²P labeled nucleotides. The specific activity of the labeled DNA was 2.7 x 10⁸ cpm µg. 1.25 x 10⁵ cpm of the radioactively labeled probe were to be added to each 500ul hybridization reaction, corresponding to 0.47µg of probe DNA. Hybridizations were set up at 65 The filters were then rinsed 3 times with 2 X SSC, 0.1 SDS at 65 A number of important conclusions may be drawn from these results It will be appreciated that the operability of the invention does not depend on the use of the specific microorganisms mentioned in the samples. These microorganisms merely serve as examples how to carry out the invention.