# Process for bonding polymeric and or metal materials.

## Abstract
Process for bonding polymeric and or metal materials by contacting the materials with a bonding material which is a blend of a polymer which will adhere to the material to be bonded and a monoalkenylarene diene block copolymer blended so as to form two or more partially continuous interlocking phases and heating the bonding material so as to form a fusion bond.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for bonding polymeric and or metal materials, which process comprises contacting the surfaces of the materials to be bonded with a bonding material comprising a blend of one or more thermoplastic polymers at least one of which will adhere to each of the surfaces of the materials to be bonded and a moncalkenylarene diene block copolymer blended so as to form two or more at least partially continuous interlocking phases and heating the bonding material so as to form a fusion bond. 2. A process as claimed in claim 1, in which two polymeric materials are bonded. 3. A process as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein radio frequency energy is used to heat the bonding material. 4. A process as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein inductive heating is used to heat the bonding material. 5. A process as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein dielectric heating is used to heat the bonding material for bonding polymeric material on polymeric material or polymeric material on metal. 6. A process as claimed in claims 2 and 4, wherein the bonding material also contains an energy absorbing material. 7. A process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the bonding material comprises an admixture obtained by intimately mixing 4 to 96 parts by weight of a block copolymer and 96 to 4 parts by weight of at least one thermoplastic polymer, so as to form at least partially continuous interlocking networks, wherein said block copolymer comprises at least two monoalkenylarene polymer end blocks A and at least one substantially completely hydrngenated conjugated diene mid blockB, said block copolymer having an 8 to 55 per cent by weight monoalkenylarene polymer block content, each polymer block A having an average molecular weight of between 5,000 and 125,000, and each polymer block B having an average molecular weight of between 10,000 and 300,000. 8. A process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the bonding material is heated to a temperature near the melt temperature of the thermoplastic polymer. 9. A process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the block copolymer is a polystyrene polybutadienepolystyrene block copolymer. 10. A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the block copolymer is a polystyrene polyi soprene po lystyrene. 11. A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the block copolymer is a poly alpha methylstyrene polybuta diene poly alpha methylstyrene . 12. A process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the bonding material absorbs more elecctcmagnetic energy than the material to be bonded. 13. A process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the thermoplastic polymer is selected from the group cansisting of polyolefins, halogenated thermoplastics, thermoplastic polyesters, polyacetals, polyamides, thermoplastic polyurethanes, polycabbonates, polyamides, po lysulphone s, poly aryl ethers , and nitrile barrier resins. 14. A bonding element having a surface for fusion bonding to another surface both of said surfaces being heat softenable comprising a blend of one or more thermoplastic polymers at least one of which will adhere to the polymer or metal to be bonded and a monoalkenylarene diene block copolymer blended so as to form two or more partially continuous interlocking phases. 15. Bonded polymeric and or metal materials, whenever prepared by means of a process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 13.

## Description
PRO2SS FOR BC NDING POLYMERIC AND OR MEBL MATERIALS The invention relates to a process for bonding polymeric materials and to the polymeric materials bonded by means of this process. The utilization of polymeric materials has been growing at an increasing rate especially in the automotive and construction areas. One of the limitations which has prevented utilization of these materials in some areas has been the availability of a rapid adhesion system permitting semistructural or structural bonding of the material to itself. In, for example, the automotive area, stamped parts made of continuous glass fibre mat reinforced polypropylene represent a large potential market for such a bonding system. Thermoplastic materials of similar as well as many that have dissimilar characteristics can be permanently connected through the heating of the interface to a critical temperature and applying an appropriate pressure with the heat at the critical temperature. In the past, bonding techniques have been developed which use the principle of induction heating to activate the bond interface and fuse the two abutting interfaces. These techniques have been proven and have been successful in bonding some difficult to bond materials such as polyethylene and polypropylene, as described in U.S. patent specifications 4,035,547, 4,067,765, 3,902,940 and 4,304,744. One process is shown in U.S. patent specification 3,574,031 which discloses discrete susceptor particles in the fusion area subjected to a high frequency magnetic induction field, generally in the radio frequency range. The plastic material immediately adjacent to the particles is converted to a fluid state, either a liquid or at least a softened flowaible state, as a result of the heat generated in the particles as such. The joining of certain different particular plastics is extremely difficult because of the different sealing characteristics thus, a particular optimum heat, pressure and time for the plastic of the one element may not be the same for the plastic of the second element. Although an intermediate bonding agent may contribute to an improved bond because of characteristics more compatible with the two different plastics, the results have not been considered highly satisfactory in many cases. The present invention provides a process for bonding polymeric materials, which process comprises contacting the surfaces of the materials to be bonded with a bonding material comprising a blend of one or more thermoplastic polymers at least one of which will adhere to each of the surfaces of the materials to be bonded and a nrmodlkenylarene diene block copolymer blended so as to form two or more at least partially continuous interlocking phases and heating the bonding material so as to form a fusion bond. The at least partially continuous interlocking phases are also named interpenetrating networks and are also referred to herein as IPN . The present invention also provides a bonding element having a surface for fusion bonding to another surface both of said surfaces being heat softenable comprising a blend of one or more thermoplastic polymers at least one of which will adhere to the polymer or metal to be bonded and a manoalkenylarene diene block copolymer blended so as to form two or more at least partially continuous interlocking phases. The e bond produced by the process of the present invention has advantages over prior art bonds in that the bonding material contains an IPN and results in a desirable balance of properties, especially lap shear strength. In addition it is possible to formulate a blend of polymers so as to get good adhesion to two different polymer surfaces by using the IPN blending technique without sacrificing the beneficial properties, e.g., adhesion and modulus associated with the individual polymers.Thus, the beneficial properties of two or more properties can be combined and retained in the IPN bond of the present invention. According to a preferred embodiment of the present invention a bonding material is used which comprises an admixture obtained by intimately mixing 4 to 96 parts by weight of a block copolymer and 96 to 4 parts by weight of at least one thermoplastic polymer, so as to form at least partially continuous interlocking networks wherein said block copolymer comprises at least two monoalkenylarene polymer end blocks A and at least one substantially completely hydrogenated conjugated diene mid block B, said block copolymer having an 8 to 55 per cent by weight nonoalkenylarene polymer block content, each polymer block A having an average molecular weight of between 5,000 and 125,000, and each polymer block B having an average molecular weight of between 10,000 and 300,000. The block copolymer used in the composition of the instant invention effectively acts as a mechanical or structural stabilizer which interlocks the polymer structure networks and prevents the consequent separation of the polymers during processing and their subsequent use. As defined more fully hereinafter, the resulting structure of the instant polyblend short for polymer blend is that of two at least partially continuous interlocking networks. This interlocked structure results in a dimensionally stable polyblend that will not delaminate under stress, e.g., upon extrusion or subsequent use. To produce stable blends it is necessary that the polymers have at least partially continuous networks which interlock with each other. In an ideal situation both polymers would have complete continuous networks which interlock with each other. A partially continuous network means that a portion of the polymer has a continuous network phase while the other portion has a disperse phase structure.Preferably, a major proportion greater than 50 by weight of the partially continuous network is continuous Stable blends are produced over very wide relative concentrations. For example, blends containing as little as 4 parts by weight of the block copolymer per 100 total in the blend or as high as 96 parts by weight per 100 total ew attainable. As explained more fully hereinafter, the instant block copolymers have this ability to produce stable blends over a wide range of concentrations since they are oxidatively stable, possess essentially an infinite viscosity at zero shea rate, and retain network or domain structure in the melt. The e bonding compositions of the instant invention have an unexpectedly superior balance of properties. Since each phase network is partially continuous in every phase, each network can donate independently to the blend properties and it is possible for additive relationships to exist in mechanical phenomena. For example, with regard to modulus related properties, at low volume fraction of the engineering resin, the plastic modulus, modulus temperature behaviour, and hardness are characteristic of a foamed resin structure with a density equivalent to the situation where the rubber volume is replaced by air.Another indication of the dominance of the resin skeletal system at low strain is the observation that in the binary system there is normally less than 5 points, and frequently less than two points, difference in Shore A hardness between blends of resin to elastomer of 1 1 and 3 1. The bonding compositions of the instant invention also have an unooviously high structural integrity. Structural integrity means that without being stretched beyond its elastic limit, the polymer blend will retain its structure and be useful over a wide range of temperatures. In addition, the bonding compositions of the present invention approach more nearly the theoretical upper limits of the Tayakangi model for co continuous versus parallel structures. One would typically expect that the blend of a rubber and an engineering thermoplastic would approach more nearly the theoretical lower limit of the Tayakangi model. The bonding composition in the method of the present invention is disposed between the surfaces to be bonded and is heated to a temperature near the melt temperature of the thermoplastic polymer. A fusion bond is formed with the surfaces in contact with the bonding composition. The bonding material retains the outstanding property set present before bonding and imparts these desirable properties to the bond itself. The block copolymers employed in the present invention may have a variety of geometrical structures, since the desirable properties do not depend on any specific geometrical structure, but rather upon the chemical constitution of each of the polymer blocks. Thus, the structures may be linear, radial or branched so long as each copolymer has at least two polymer end blocks A and at least one polymer mid block B as defined above. Methods for the preparation of such polymers are known in the art.Particular reference will be made to the use of lithium based catalysts and especially lithiumralkyls for the preparation of the precursor polymers polymers before hydrogenation . U.S.patent specification 3,595,942 not only describes some of the polymers useful in the instant invention but also describes suitable methods for their hydrogenation. The structure of the polymers is determined by their methods of polymerization. For example, linear polymers result by sequential introduction of the desired monomers into the reaction vessel when using such initiators as lithiumralkyls or dilithiostilbene and the like, or by coupling a twc segment block copolymer with a difunctional coupling agent. Branched structures, on the other hand, may be obtained by the use of suitable coupling agents having a functionality with respect to the precursor polymers of three or more.Coupling may be effected with multi functional coupling agents such as dihaloalkanes or dihaloalkenes and divinylbenzene as well as certain polar compounds such as silicon halides, siloxanes or esters of monohydric alcohols with carboxylic acids. The presence of any coupling residues in the polymer may be ignored for an adequate description of the polymers forming a part of the compositions of this invention. Likewise, in the generic sense, the specific structures also may be ignored.The invention applies especially to the use of selectively hydrogenated polymers having the configuration before hydrogenation of the following typical species polystyrene polybutadiene polystyrene SBS polystyrene polyisoprene polystyrene SIS poly alpha methyl styrene polybutadiene poly alpha methyl styrene and poly alpha methyl styrene polyi soprene po ly alpha methyl styrene . It will be understood that both blocks A and B may be either homqpolymer or randan copolymer blocks as long as each block predominates in at least one class of the monomers characterizing the blocks and as long as the A blocks individually predomdnate in monoalkenylarenes and the B blocks individually predondnate in dienes. The term monoalkenylarene will be taken to include especially styrene and its analogs and hatologs including alphaemethylstyrene and ring substituted styrenes, particularly ring methylated styrenes. The preferred mono alkenylarenes are styrene and alpha methylstyne, and styrene is particularly preferred.The blocks B may comprise homopolymars of butadiene or isoprene and copolymers of one of these two dines with a monoalkenylarene as long as the blocks B predaninate in conjugated diene units. When the monomer employed is butadiene, it is preferred that between about 35 and about 55 per per cent of the condensed butadiene units in the butadiene polymer block have 1,2 configuration. Thus, when such a block is hydrogenated, the resulting product is, or resembles, a regular copolymer block of ethylene and l butene EB . If the conjugated diene employed is isoprene, the resulting hydrogenated product is or resembles a regular copolymer block of ethylene and propylene EP . Hydrogenation of the precursor block copolymers is preferably effected by use of a catalyst comprising the reaction products of an aluminiumalkyl compound with nickel or cobalt carboxylates or alkoxides under such conditions as to substantially completely hydrogenate at least 80 of the aliphatic double bonds while hydrogenating no more than about 25 of the alkenylarene aromatic double bonds. Preferred block copolymers are those where at least 99 of the aliphatic double bonds are hydrogenated while less than 5 of the aranatic double bonds are hydrogenated. The average molecular weights of the individual blocks may vary within certain limits. In most instances, the monoalkenyl arene blocks will have number average molecular weights between 5,000 and 125,000, preferably between 7,000 and 60,000 while the conjugated diene blocks either before or after hydrogenation will have average molecular weights between 10,000 and 300,000, preferably between 30,000 and 150,000. The total average molecular weight of the block copolymer is typically between about 25,000 and about 350,000 preferably between about 35,000 and about 300,000. These molecular weights are frost accurately determined by tritium counting methods or osmotic pressure measurements. The proportion of the monoalkenylarene blocks should be between 8 and 55 by weight of the block copolymer, preferably between about 10 and 30 by weight. While the average molecular weight of the individual blocks is not critical, at least within the above specified limits, it is important to select the type and total molecular weight of the block copolymer in order to ensure the compatibility necessary to get the interlocking network under the chosen blending conditions. As discussed more fully hereinafter, best results are obtained when the viscosity of the block copolymer and the engineering thermoplastic resin are substantially the same at the temperature used for blending and processing. In some instances, matching of the viscosity of the block copolymer portion and the resin portion are best achieved by using two or more block copolymers or resins.For example, a blend of two block copolymers having different molecular weights or a blend of a hydrogenated SBS and hydrogenated SIS polymers may be employed. Matching of the viscosity of the block copolymer portion and the engineering thermoplastic resin portion may also be accomplished by adding supplemental blending components such as hydrocarbon oils and other resins. These supplementary components may be blended with the block copolymer portion or the engineering thermqplastic resin portion, but it is preferred to add the additional cctçonents to the block copolymer portion.This pre blended block copolymer composition is then intimately mixed with the engineering thermoplastic resin to form positions according to the present invention. The types of oils useful in the practice of this invention are those polymer extending oils ordinarily used in the processing of rubber and plastics, e.g. rubber compocnding oils.Especially preferred are the types of oil that are compatible with the elastomeric segment of the block copolymer. While oils of higher aromatic content are satisfactory, those petroleums based white oils having low volatility and less than 50 aranatics content as determined by the clay gel method of tentative ASTM method D 20C7 are particularly preferred. The oils should additionally have low volatility, preferably having an initial boiling point above 260 OC. The amount of oil employed varies from about 0 to about 100 phr parts by weight per hundred parts by weight rubber, or block copolymer as in this case , preferably about 5 to about 30 phr. The additional resins employed in the matching viscosities are flow promoting resins such as alphaemethylstyrene resins, and end block plasticizing resins. Suitable end block plasticizing resins include coumarone indene resins, vinyltoluene alpha methylstyrene copolymers, polyindene resins, and low molecular weight polystyrene resins see U.S. patent speci fication 3,917,607 . The arrount of additional resin employed varies frcm about 0 to about 100 phr, preferably about 5 to about 25 phr. Thermoplastics useful in the blend of the present invention include polyolefins, halogenated thermoplastics, thermoplastic polyesters, polyacetals, polyamides, thermoplastic polyurethanes, polycarbonates, polyamides, polysulphones, poly acryl ethers , and nitrile barrier resins. The polymers in the blend can be selected so as to obtain the best properties for the bond, for example, one component of the bonding blend could be the material to be bonded or it could be compatible with the material to be bonded. The heating step can be accomplished by any convenient method. In simple systems, the bonding composition can be applied by manual means to an adherent, contacted with another adherent and the assembled system heated in a forced air oven until a thentoset bond results. Additionally and preferably, electromagnetic heating can be utilized as a faster and irore efficient means, especially where the substrates to be bonded are plastic materials. In addition to the formation of high strength bonds, electromagnetic bonding techniques aid in a fast bond setting tires, and b automated part handling and assembly. In practising the instant invention, electromagnetic heating can be employed with the bonding copposition herein to adhere 1 plastic to plastic, 2 plastic to metal and 3 metal to metal. For example, dielectric heating can be used to bond 1 and 2 supra if the adhesive composition contains sufficient polar groups to heat the copposition rapidly and allow it to bond the adherents. Inductive heating and ratio frequency energy can also be used to bond 1 , 2 and 3 . That is, when at least one of the adherents is an electrically conductive or ferromagnetic metal, the heat generated therein is conveyed by conductance to the bonding composition.In the instance where both adherents are plastic, it may be necessary to add an energy absorbing material, i. e., an electrically conductive or ferranagnetic material, preferably in fibre or particle form 10 400 mesh, U.S. Sieve Series, sieve openings 2.00 0.037 mm to the adhesive composition. The energy absorbing material is usually added in amunts ranging from 0.1 to 2 parts by weight, per 1 part by weight of the bonding composition. It is also possible to impregnate the plastic adherent at the bonding joint with particles of the energy absorbing material in order to use inductive heating, but care must be exercised that the plastic is not distorted. The particulate electranagnetic energy absorbing material used in the adhesive composition when inductive heating is employed can be one of the magnetizable metals including iron, cobalt and nickel or magnetizable alloys or oxides of nickel and iron and nickel and chrsmium and iron oxide. These metals and alloys have high Curie points 388 1115 OC . Electrically conductive materials operable herein when inductive heating is employed include, but are not limited to, the noble metals, copper, aliinnium, nickel, zinc as well as carbon black, graphite and inorganic oxides. There are two forms of high frequency heating operable herein, the choice of which is determined by the material to be adhered. The major distinction is whether or not the material is a conductor or non ccnductcr of electrical current. If the material is a conductor, such as iron or steel, then the inductive method is used. If the material is an insulator, such as wood, paper, textiles, synthetic resins, rubber, etc., then dielectric heating can also be employed. Most naturally occurring and synthetic polymers are nonconductors and, therefore, are suitable for dielectric heating.These polymers may contain a variety of dipoles and ions which orient in an electric field and rotate to maintain their alignment with the field when the field oscillates. The polar groups may be incorporated into the polymer backbone or can be pendant side groups, additives, extenders, pigments, etc. For example, as additives, glossy fillers such as carbon black at a one per cent level can be used to increase the dielectric response of the bonding composition. When the polarity of the electric field is reversed millions of times per second, the resulting high frequency of the polar units generates heat within the material. The uniqueness of dielectric heating is in its uniformity, rapidity, specificity and efficiency. Most plastic heating processes such as conductive, convective or infrared heating are surface heating processes which need to establish a temperature within the plastic and subsequently transfer the heat to the bulk of the plastic by conduction. Hence, heating of plastics by these methods is a relatively slow process with a non uniform temperature resulting in overheating of the surfaces. By contrast, dielectric heating generates the heat within the material and is therefore uniform and rapid, eliminating the need for conductive heat transfer.In the dielectric heating system herein the electrical frequency of the electromagnetic field is in the range 1 3,000 megahertz, said field being generated from a power source of 0.5 1,000 kilowatts. Induction heating is similar, but not identical, to dielectric heating. The following differences exist a magnetic properties are substituted for dielectric properties b a coil is employed to couple the load rather than electrodes or plates and c induction heaters couple maxImum current to the load. The generation of heat by induction operates through the rising and falling of a magnetic field around a conductor with each reversal of an alternating current source. The practical deployment of such field is generally accomplished by proper placement of a conductive coil. When another electrically conductive material is exposed to the field, induced current can be created.These induced currents can be in the form of random or eddy currents which result in the generation of heat. Materials which are both magnetizable and conductive generate heat more readily than materials which are only conductive. The heat generated as a result of the magnetic component is the result of hysteresis or work done in rotating magnetizable molecules and as a result of eddy current flow. Polyolefins and other plastics are neither magnetic nor conductive in their natural states. Therefore, they do not, in themselves, create heat as a result of induction. The use of the electromagnetic induction heating method for adhesive bonding of plastic structures has proved feasible by interposing selected electromagnetic energy absorbing materials in an independent bonding composition layer or gasket conforming to the surfaces to be bonded, electromagnetic energy passing through the adjacent plastic structures free of such energy absorbing materials is readily concentrated and absorbed in the adhesive composition by such energy absorbing materials thereby rapidly initiating cure of the adhesive composition to a thermoses adhesive. Electromagnetic energy absorbing materials of various types have been used in the electromagnetic induction heating technique for sane time. For instance, inorganic oxides and powdered metals have been incorporated in bond layers and subjected to electromagnetic radiation. In each instance, the type of energy source influences the selection of energy absorbing material. Where the energy absorbing material prises finely divided particles having ferranagnetic properties and such particles are effectively insulated from each other by particles containing non conducting matrix material, the heating effect is substantially confined to that resulting frcm the effects of hysteresis.Consequently, heating is limited to the Curie temperature of the ferratagnetic material or the temperature at which the magnetic properties of such material cease to exist. The bonding camposition of this invention may take the form of an extruded ribbon or tape, a moulded gasket or cast sheet. The foregoing bonding composition, when properly utilized as described hereinafter, results in a solvent free bonding system which permits the joining of metal or plastic items without costly surface pretreatment. The electromagnetically induced bonding reaction occurs rapidly and is adaptable to automated fabrication techniques and equipment. To accomplish the establishment of a concentrated and specifically located heat zone by induction heating in the context of bonding in accordance with the invention, it has been found that the bonding compositions described above can be activated and a bond created by an induction heating system operating with an electrical frequency of the electromagnetic field of fran about 5 to about 30 megacycles and preferably from about 15 to 30 megacycles, said field being generated from a power source of fran about 1 to about 30 kilowatts, and preferably from about 2 to about 5 kilowatts. The electromagnetic field is applied to the articles to be bonded for a period of time of less than about 2 minutes. As heretofore mentioned, the bonding system and improved bonding compositions of the present invention are applicable to the bonding of metals, thermoplastic and thermoset material, including fibre reinforced thermoset material. The following Examples further illustrate the invention.Examples 1 and 2 A highly RF radio frequency susceptible IPN adhesive film was co pounded in the melt state at 180 OC from a dry blend of block copolymer, polypropylene and a commercial blend of poly vinyl chloride and Nitrile rubber G ON 8720, B.F. Goodrich , GEN is a trade mark. The block copolymer employed here was selectively hydrogenated having a structure styrene ethylene l butene styrene and block molecular weights of about 10,00050,000 10,000 as measured by gel peeation chromatography by . Two formulations IPN blends A and B were tested and are listed hereinafter Example 1 refers to IPN blend A and Example 2 to IPN blend B. Example 1 2IPN Blend A BBlock copolymer 15 g 15 gPolypropylene 30 g 15 g PVC Nitrile Rubber Blend GEON 8720 15 g 30 gIrganox 1010 0.76 g 0.76 g Irganox is a trade mark for an antiocidant. Thin compression moulded films of the two blends were positioned between two sheets of continuous glass reinforced polypropylene 52 fibreglass by weight of the trade markAZDEL, clamped with approximately 0.70 kg cm2 force between two parallel electrodes, and subjected to a 100 z RF field until melting of the adhesive film was evident. The AZDEL sheet itself remained cool to touchn during the heating process. Listed below are the measured lap shear strengths obtained for the two adhesive films.IPN Blend IPN Film Thickness Lap Shear Strength mn kg cm A 1.22 36.1A 0.51 34.0B 0.46 19.6B 0.36 25.7B 1.22 31.1 All of the failures were cohesive in nature.