# PRESSURE SENSITIVE ADHESIVE COMPOSITION

## Claims
Selbstkleberzusammensetzung umfassend

## Description
The present invention relates to a pressure sensitive adhesive composition, and more particularly to the composition containing a polymer having a reactive silyl group, which has excellent releasability from a release paper. A pressure sensitive adhesive is a kind of adhesive which is permanently tacky and can firmly adhere to a surface without the need of more than finger pressure. Examples of the use of pressure sensitive adhesive are in cellophane, masking and electrical tapes and in self adhering label and sheet. A pressure sensitive adhesive must have important properties that not only it can adhere to a surface of materials, but also it can easily peeled off from a desired surface of materials. For instance, in case that the pressure sensitive adhesive is applied to a self adhering label or sheet, the pressure sensitive adhesive face is protected with a release paper. This release paper must be easily peeled off from the pressure sensitive adhesive face, that is, the release paper must not be teared or the pressure sensitive adhesive must not remain on the release paper In case of a electrical tape, the hack side of the pressure sensitive adhesive face must have the same properties that release papers have. Examples of the release paper are, for instance, a paper treated with a silicone release agent or a fluorine compound, and the like. The releasability of the electrical tape is also improved by applying a silicone release agent or the like on the back side of the pressure sensitive agent. Many pressure sensitive adhesives are excellent in the releasability from the above mentioned release paper or back side of tape. As the pressure sensitive adhesive composition having excellent releasability, there is known a composition such as rubber pressure sensitive adhesive composition prepared by admixing a natural rubber or a synthetic rubber with a tackifier, or a polyacrylate pressure sensitive adhesive composition containing a polyacrylate prepared by copolymerizing acrylic acid esters. However, these pressure sensitive adhesives have the disadvantage that the heat resistance is poor. That is, the foundamental properties for pressure sensitive adhesives such as adhesive strength and holding power are remarkably lowered with increase in temperature. Because natural or synthetic rubber pressure sensitive adhesives are adhesives of non crosslinking type, it is expected that they are poor in heat resistance. Even with respect to the polyacrylate pressure sensitive adhesive, in spite that the polyacrylate is cross linked by a cross linking agent such as an isocyanate, the heat resistance of the cross linked polyacrylate itself is not always sufficient. On the other hand, as a pressure sensitive adhesive having excellent heat resistance, a silicone pressure sensitive adhesive prepared by admixing a dimethyl polysiloxane rubber as a base material with a silicone resin has been known. However, the silicone pressure sensitive adhesive has the disadvantages that it has a high adhesive strength even to a nonpolar substance such as polytetrafluoroethylene and also it has an insufficient releasability to a silicone release paper, because both the silicone pressure sensitive adhesive and the silicone release paper include polysiloxane and accordingly are compatible with each other. Recently, it is proposed to prepare a pressure sensitive adhesive composition having excellent heat resistance by introducing a reactive silicon containing group hereinafter referred to as reactive silicon group into a organic polymer, thus heat stable siloxane linkages are formed by condensation reaction of the reactive silicon group. Such a pressure sensitive adhesive is disclosed, for instance, in U.S. Patent No. 4,463,115 to the present inventors. However, this pressure sensitive adhesive of cross linking type has the disadvantage that its releasability from a silicone release paper is poor like the above mentioned silicone pressure sensitive adhesive in spite that this pressure sensitive adhesive has essentially a main chain of organic skeleton. That is, when this pressure sensitive adhesive is laminated to a release paper or film or when this pressure sensitive adhesive is coated onto a substrate the backside of which is coated with a silicone release agent and the coated substrate is wound, the peeling resistance between the pressure sensitive adhesive layer and the release paper or film rises with the lapse of time and the release paper cannot be peeled off due to breaking of the paper in the worst case. EP A 109 979 discloses a composition comprising a polymer having also a silicon containing hydrolysable group. However, the composition of EP A 109 979 is not useful as a pressure sensitive adhesive composition. Also in FR A 2 539 423 a composition is mentioned which contains an organopolysiloxane. Such composition is curable with moisture to produce an elastomer and is not useful as a pressure sensitive adhesive composition. An object of the invention is to provide a pressure sensitive adhesive composition having excellent heat resistance and releasability from substrates, e.g. a release paper coated with a silicone release agent. This and other objects of the present invention will become apparent from the description hereinafter. In accordance with the present invention, there is provided a pressure sensitive adhesive composition comprising The pressure sensitive adhesive composition of the invention has excellent heat resistance and releasability from release paper such as silicone release paper. In the present invention, the organic polymer having at least one reactive silicon group in its molecule used as a component A is a polymer having at least one reactive silicon group per one molecule at the polymer chain end or the side chain. The term reactive silicon group as used herein means a group capable of condencing in the presence of moisture or a cross linking agent, and if necessary, with a catalyst, for instance, silicon containing group having a hydrolyzable group which links to silicon atom, or a silanol group. The reactive silicon group is represented by the formula I In the formula I , when 2 or more R² groups exist, they may be the same or different. Examples of the R² are, for instance, an alkyl group such as methyl group or ethyl group, a cycloalkyl group such as cyclohexyl group, an aryl group such as phenyl group, and an aralkyl group such as benzyl group. Further, R² can be a triorganosiloxy group having the formula II In the formula I , X is hydroxyl group or a hydrolyzable group. Examples of the hydrolyzable group are, for instance, a halogen atom, a hydrogen atom, an alkoxyl group, an acyloxyl group, a ketoxymate group, an amino group, an amido group, an aminoxy group, a mercapto group, an alkenyloxy group, and the like. Among them, the alkoxyl group, especially methoxyl group, is preferable because of easiness in handling. Examples of the main chain constituting the organic polymer are, for instance, an alkylene oxide polymer, an ether ester block copolymer, a vinyl polymer, a vinyl copolymer, a diene polymer, and the like. The organic polymer A composed of alkylene oxide polymer or ether ester block copolymer as the main chain can be prepared, for instance, by the methods disclosed in U.S. Patent Nos. 3,592,795 and 3,408,321, Japanese Patent Examined Publication Tokkyo Kokoku Nos. 36319 1970, 12154 1971 and 32673 1974 and Japanese Patent Unexamined Publication Tokkyo Kokai Nos. 156599 1975, 73561 1976, 6096 1979, 13768 1980, 82123 1980, 123620 1980, 125121 1980, 131021 1980, 131022 1980, 135135 1980 and 137129 1980. Also, the organic polymer A composed of a vinyl polymer or copolymer as a main chain can be prepared, for instance, by the methods disclosed in Tokkyo Kokoku No. 28301 1976 and Tokkyo Kokai No. 179210 1982. Further, the organic polymer A composed of a diene polymer as a main chain can be prepared, for instance, by the methods disclosed in Tokkyo Kokoku No. 17553 1970 and Tokkyo Kokai 1389 1972. In the present invention, when the alkylene oxide organic polymer A is used, it is preferable that the main chain has essentially recurring units of the formula III The term essentially as mentioned above means that the main chain may include monomer units and or polymer units other than R¹ O . Examples of the bivalent hydrocarbon group R¹ having 1 to 8 carbon atoms are, for instance, CH₂ , CH₂CH₂ , The main chain of the alkylene oxide polymer may be composed of recurring units of one kind, or 2 or more kinds. Particularly, it is preferable that R¹ is The alkylene oxide polymer having the reactive silicon group within the molecule can be prepared, for instance, by the hydrosilylation, that is, addition reaction of a hydrosilane having the formula I wherein R², X, a, b and m are as defined above, to an alkylene oxide polymer containing an unsaturated group represented by the formula IV wherein R³ is hydrogen atom, a halogen atom or a monovalent substituted or unsubstituted organic group having 1 to 20 carbon atoms, Z is a bivalent organic group having 1 to 40 carbon atoms, preferably 1 to 20 carbon atoms and c is 0 or 1, in the presence of a platinum catalyst such as chloroplatinic acid. The process for preparing the alkylene oxide polymer A is not limited the above mentioned process. Examples of the hydrosilane I are, for instance, halogenated silanes such as trichlorosilane, methyldichlorosilane, dimethylchlorosilane, and trimethylsiloxydichlorosilane alkoxy silanes such as trimethoxysilane, triethoxysilane, methyldimethoxysilane, phenyldimethoxysilane, and 1,3,3,5,5,7,7 heptamethyl 1,1 dimethoxytetrasiloxane acyloxysilanes such as methyldiacetoxysilane, and trimethylsiloxymethylacetoxysilane ketoxymate silanes such as bis dimethylketoxymate methylsilane, bis cyclohexylketoxymate methyl silane, and bis diethylketoxmate trimethylsilane hydro silanes such as dimethylsilane, trimethylsiloxymethyl silane, and 1,1 dimethyl 3,3 dimethyldisiloxane alkenyloxy silanes such as methyldi isopropenyloxy silane and the like. In the reaction of the hydrosilane having the formula I and the alkylene oxide polymer having unsaturated groups represented by the formula IV , after the completion of the reaction, a part or all of the X groups may be converted into other hydrolyzable groups or hydroxyl group. For instance, in case that the X group in the formula I is a halogen atom or hydrogen atom, it is rather preferable that the X group is converted into an alkoxyl group, an acyloxyl group, an aminoxy group, an alkenyloxy group, hydroxyl group, or the like. In the formula IV , R³ is hydrogen atom, a halogen atom or a monovalent substituted or unsubstituted organic group having 1 to 20 carbon atoms. It is preferable that R³ is hydrogen atom or a hydrocarbon group, more preferably hydrogen atom. Z is a bivalent organic group having 1 to 40 carbon atoms, preferably 1 to 20 carbon atoms. It is preferable that Z is R⁴ , R⁴OR⁴ , wherein R⁴ is a bivalent hydrocarbon group having 1 to 20 carbon atoms, and when two R⁴ groups are present, they may be the same or different. Methylene group is particularly preferred as Z. The alkylene oxide polymer having the unsaturated group represented by the formula IV can be prepared by various methods, for instance, by a method disclosed in Tokkyo Kokai No. 6097 1979, or a method wherein as ethylene oxide or propylene oxide is copolymerized with an olefin group containing epoxy compound such as allyl glycidyl ether to produce an alkylene oxide polymer having the unsaturated group IV as side chains. An organic polymer having a vinyl polymer, a vinyl copolymer or a diene polymer as a main chain can also be employed as the organic polymer A . Examples of the main chain of these organic polymer A are, for instance, polybutadiene, styrene butadiene copolymer, acrylonitrile butadiene copolymer, acrylic acid ester butadiene copolymer, vinylpyridine butadiene copolymer, ethylene propylene copolymer, ethylene vinylacetate copolymer, ethylene acrylic acid ester copolymer, polyisoprene, styrene isoprene copolymer, isobutyleneisoprene copolymer, polychloroprene, styrene chloroprene copolymer, acrylonitrile chloroprene copolymer, polyisobutylene, polyacrylic acid ester, polymethacrylic acid ester, and the like. That is, any of the polymers having rubber like properties as mentioned above to which the reactive silicon group is introduced can be employed as the organic polymer A used in the invention. Particularly, an organic polymer including an acrylic acid ester or methacrylic acid ester as a main component, that is, an organic polymer composed of at least 50 by weight of an acrylic acid ester or methacrylic acid ester is preferable. Concretely, as the organic polymer A employed in the invention, there are preferred those prepared from a polymer or copolymer including as a main component acrylic acid esters or methacrylic acid esters of linear, branched or alicyclic alcohols having 2 to 12 carbon atoms such as n butyl acrylate, n butyl methacrylate, 2 ethylhexyl acrylate, 2 ethylhexyl methacrylate, ethyl acrylate, propyl acrylate, isobutyl acrylate, isobutyl methacrylate, amyl acrylate, amyl methacrylate, hexyl acrylate, hexyl methacrylate, cyclohexyl acrylate, cyclohexyl methacrylate, n octyl acrylate, n octyl methacrylate, n decyl acrylate or n decyl methacrylate. When the number of carbon atoms of the alcohol is less than or more than the above range, the adhesive strength of the organic polymer A is lowered. Particularly, the organic polymer including n butyl acrylate or 2 ethylhexyl acrylate as a main component is preferable. The vinyl polymer having the reactive silicon group employed in the invention as the polymer A may contain units of other copolymerizable monomers in the proportion of less than 50 by weight, preferably less than 40 by weight, more preferably 20 by weight. Examples of the above mentioned other copolymerizable monomer are, for instance, methacrylic acid, methyl methacrylate, acrylic acid, vinyl acetate, vinyl propionate, acrylonitrile, methacrylonitrile, acrylic amide, styrene, hydroxyethyl acrylate, hydroxyethyl methacrylate, N,N di methylaminoethyl acrylate, vinyl acrylate, allyl acrylate, and the like. These copolymerizable monomers have an effect of improving the adhesive srength and cohesive strength when used within the above mentioned range, but the use thereof in an amount of not less than 50 by weight should be avoided, because the tack initail adhesive strength is lowered. The introduction of the reactive silicon group into the vinyl polymer, vinyl copolymer and diene polymer can be attained by various processes, e.g. a process wherein a monomer having the reactive silicon group is copolymerized with vinyl or diene monomers, a process wherein a polymerization initiator having the reactive silicon group is employed, a process wherein a chain transfer agent having the reactive silicon group is employed, a combination of the above mentioned processes, or a process wherein a monomer having no reactive silicon group is polymerized, and after the completion of the polymerization, a compound having the reactive silicon group and a reactive group capable of reacting with the produced polymer is reacted. The processes preparing the organic polymer having the reactive silicon group are not limited to the above mentioned processes. Examples of the above mentioned monomer having the reactive silicon group are, for instance, Examples of the polymerization initiator having the reactive silicon group are, for instance, azo compounds such as azobis 2 6 methyldimethoxysilyl 2 cyanohexane , azobis 2 6 trimethoxysilyl 2 cyanohexane , and azobis 2 6 methyldiacetoxysilyl 2 cyanohexane peroxide compounds such as and the like, but the polymerization initiators are not limited thereto. Examples of the chain transfer agent having the reactive silicon group are, for instance, The vinyl polymer A having the reactive silicon group can be prepared by usual polymerization methods such as a method using a radical initiator and a method by irradiation of ultraviolet ray, X ray or γ ray. Examples of the radical initiator used in the invention are the above mentioned radical initiators having reactive silicon group, peroxides such as benzoyl peroxide, benzoyl hydroperoxide, di t butyl peroxide, di t butyl hydroperoxide, acetyl peroxide, lauroyl peroxide and hydrogen peroxide azo compounds such as azobisisobutyronitrile other peroxides such as persulfates and diisopropyl peroxycarbonate and the like. When the vinyl polymer having the reactive silicon group is prepared, a solvent may be employed, as occasion demands. Examples of the solvent are, for instance, ethers, hydrocarbons, acetic acid esters, and the like. The polymerization temperature is not particularly limited and the suitable temperature is determined depending on kinds of polymerization method, and also in case of using a radical initiator, depending on the kinds of the initiators used. Generally, it is preferable that the polymerization is carried out at a temperature of 50 to 150 C. If necessary, the degree of polymerization of the vinyl polymer may be regulated by employing chain transfer agents such as mercaptans, halogen containing compounds. When the polymerization is carried out, the whole amount of all starting materials such as vinyl monomers may be supplied at once, or for controlling the heat generation, the monomers may be supplied intermittently or continuously. The vinyl polymer having the reactive silicon group employed in the invention has a molecular weight of 500 to 1,000,000, preferably 2,000 to 500,000. Particularly, in case that the vinyl polymer has the reactive silicon group at the molecular end, it is preferable that the vinyl polymer has a molecular weight of 3,000 to 15,000. The organic polymers A employed in the invention may be alone or in admixture thereof. For example, the organic polymer A may be a mixture of the above mentioned alkylene oxide polymer and the vinyl polymer such as a polyalkyl acrylate, or a polymer having the reactive silicon group prepared by polymerizing the vinyl monomer such as an alkyl acrylate in the presence of the above mentioned alkylene oxide polymer. The feature of the present invention is that the organic zirconium or the organic aluminium is employed as the curing catalyst B . The releasability of the pressure sensitive adhesive of the invention from a silicone release paper can be remarkably improved by employing the above curing catalysts. In the invention, the organic zirconium or the organic aluminium is a compound in which an organic group is attached to zirconium or aluminium, e.g. alkoxide or chelate compounds of zirconium or aluminium having the formula V or the formula VI wherein R is a monovalent hydrocarbon group having 1 to 20 carbon atoms, Y¹ and Y² are the same or different and each is a group selected from the group consisting of a hydrocarbon group having 1 to 8 carbon atoms, a halogenated hydrocarbon group having 1 to 8 carbon atoms, a cyanoalkyl group having 1 to 8 carbon atoms, an alkoxyl group having 1 to 8 carbon atoms, a halogenated alkoxyl group having 1 to 8 carbon atoms, cyanoalkoxyl group having 1 to 8 carbon atoms and amino group, n is 0 or an integer of 1 to 4 and ℓ is 0 or an integer of 1 to 3, and organic acid salts of zirconium or aluminium. The compounds in the associated form or the like may be employed as the curing catalyst. Examples of the curing catalyst B are, for instance, alkoxide compounds such as C₂H₅O ₄Zr, iso C₃H₇O ₄Zr, n C₄H₉O ₄zr, C₈H₁₇O ₄zr, iso C₃H₇O ₃Aℓ, isoC₃H₇O ₂Aℓ sec C₄H₉O and sec C₄H₉O ₃Aℓ chelate compounds such as Zr acac ₄ zirconium tetraacetylacetonato, hereinafter the acetylacetonato being referred to as acac , n C₄H₉O ₃Zr acac , n C₄H₉O ₂Zr acac ₂, n C₄H₉O Zr acac ₃, iso C₃H₇O ₂Aℓ acac , Aℓ acac ₃, iso C₃H₇O ₂Aℓ ethyl acetoacetate and Aℓ ethyl acetoacetate ₃ organic acid salts such as CH₃COO ₂ZrO, C₇H₁₅COO ₂ZrO and C₁₅H₃₁COO ₂ZrO and the like, but the curing catalyst is not limited to these exemplifed compounds. Further, even if these organic zirconium and organic aluminium are in the associated form such as a trimer and a tetramer, they can be employed as the curing catalyst in the invention. The curing catalysts may be employed alone or in admixture thereof. The curing catalyst is employed in an amount of 0.1 to 20 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of the organic polymer A . When the amount of the catalyst is less than 0.1 part by weight, a satisfactory catalytical action is not obtained, while when the amount is more than 20 parts by weight, a curing rate of the polymer becomes too high to lower the workability in application of the composition to a substrate. The curing catalyst employed in the invention has a curing activity which is in no way inferior to that of orgnotin compound which hitherto has been employed, and moreover does not have a problem that the pressure sensitive adhesive is colored as seen in the case of employing an alkyl titanate compound as the catalyst, thus is excellent in both the productivity and the appearence of the pressure sensitive adhesive. In the present invention, a tackifier may be employed in order to control the adhesive strength of the pressure sensitive adhesive. The tackifier employed in the invention is not limited. Examples of the tackifier are, for instance, resins having a polar group such as a rosin ester resin, a phenol resin, a xylene resin, a xylene phenol resin and a terpene phenol resin various petroleum resins having a relatively small polarity such as an aromatic petroleum resin, an aliphatic aromatic copolymer petroleum resin or an alicyclic petroleum resin and usual tackifiers such as a cumarone resin, a polystyrene resin having low molecular weight and a terpene resin. Typical examples of the tackifiers which are commercially available are, for instance, a resin having a relatively small polarity such as an aromatic petroleum resin commercially available under the commercial name Petrosin 80 , made by Mitsui Petrochemical Industries, Ltd. , an aromatic petroleum resin commercially available under the commercial name Neopolymer S , made by Nippon Sekiyu Kagaku Kabushiki Kaisha , a petroleum resin commercially available under the commercial name Tackace A 100 , made by Mitsui Petrochemical Industries, Ltd. , an aliphatic petroleum resin commercially available under the commercial name Quintone 1500 , made by Nippon Zeon Co., Ltd. , a petroleum resin commercially available under the commercial name FTR 6100 , made by Mitsui Petrochemical Industries, Ltd. , a styrene resin commercially available under the commercial name Piccolastic A 75 , made by Hercules Inc. or a cumarone indene resin commercially available under the commercial name Cumarone G 90 , made by Nittetu Kagaku Kabushiki Kaisha a resin having a polar group such as a terpene phenol resin commercially available under the commercial name YS Polystar T 115 , made by Yasuhara Yushi Kogyo Co., Ltd. , a terpene phenol resin commercially available under the commercial name YS Polystar S 145 , made by Yasuhara Yushi Kogyo Co., Ltd. , a hydrogenated rosin resin commercially available under the commercial name Staybelite Ester 7 , made by Hercules Inc. , or an aromatic petroleum resin commercially available under the commercial name Neopolymer E 100 , made by Nippon Sekiyu Kagaku Kabushiki Kaisha and the like, but the tackifiers are not limited to these examplified resins. The amount of the tackifier is determined depending on the kinds of the tackifier, but it is preferable to employ in an amount of 1 to 140 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of the organic polymer A . When the amount of the tackifier is more than 140 parts by weight, it is difficult to obtain the pressure sensitive adhesive having an excellent tack. The composition of the invention may optionally include a plasticizer, a softening agent, a filler, an antioxidant, an ultra violet absorbent, a pigment, a surfactant and other additives. Examples of the plasticizer or the softening agent are, for instance, dioctyl phthalate, butylbenzyl phthalate, polypropylene glycol, chlorinated paraffin, liquid polybutadiene, and the like. Examples of the filler are, for instance, calcium carbonate, clay, talc, titanium oxide, zinc oxide, silica, silicious earth, barium sulfate, and the like. A solvent may be incorporated into the pressure sensitive adhesive composition of the invention in order to improve the workability or to lower the viscosity of the composition. Examples of the solvent are, for instance, an aromatic hydrocarbon solvent such as toluene or xylene an ester solvent such as ethyl acetate, butyl acetate, amyl acetate or cellosolve acetate a ketone solvent such as methyl ethyl ketone, methyl isobutyl ketone or diisobutyl ketone and the like. The pressure sensitive adhesive composition can be employed for the wide use such as a pressure sensitive adhesive tape, sheet, label or foil. The pressure sensitive adhesive product can be produced from the composition of the invention, for instance, according to the following method. That is to say, the composition of the invention in the form of a non solvent liquid or a solvent solution, or in the form of an emulsion or in the molten state is applied to a substrate such as a film of synthetic resin or modified natural substance, a paper, a cloth, a metallic foil, a metallized plastic foil, an asbestos cloth, or a glass fiber cloth, and is then exposed to moisture or water, and the composition is cured at room temperature or by heating. The present invention is more specifically described and explained by the following Examples in which all percents and parts are by weight unless otherwise noted. It is to be understood that the present invention is not limited into the Examples, and various changes and modification may be made in the invention without departing from the spirit and scope thereof. In Examples, tests were carried out as follows A prepared pressure sensitive adhesive tape is laminated to a commercially available silicone release paper and it is adhered at 50 C for 7 days, 14 days or 21 days. After the temperature of the tape is lowered to room temperature, the peel strength is measured when the release paper is peeled off from the tape at an angle between the tape and the release paper of 180 at a test speed of 300 mm minute. A prepared pressure sensitive adhesive tape is laminated to a commercially available silicone release paper and is allowed to stand at 50 C. Then, the adhesive strength of the pressure sensitive adhesive composition layer of the tape obtained by peeling off from the release paper is measured. A percentage of the above adhesive strength to the adhesive strength at the initial is shown as a percentage of remaining adhesive strength. A prepared pressure sensitive adhesive tape is laminated onto a stainless steel plate and it is allowed to stand at 23 C for 60 minutes. Then a 180 peel strength of the pressure sensitive adhesive composition is measured at 23 C at a test speed of 300 mm minute. A pressure vessel equipped with a stirrer was charged with 800 g of a polypropylene oxide having an average molecular weight of 8,000 and having allyl ether group at 98 of the whole polymer ends this oxide was prepared by using a polypropylene glycol as a starting material , and then 20 g of methyldimethoxysilane was added to the vessel, and subsequently, 0.34 ml of a catalyst solution including chloroplatinic acid a solution of 8.9 g of H₂PtCℓ H₂O dissolved in 18 ml of isopropyl alcohol and 160 ml of tetrahydrofuran was added. Then the reaction was carried out for 6 hours at 80 C. The amount of unreacted silane was measured by means of a gas chromatography and an infrared analysis in order to know a reaction ratio. From the result, it was confirmed that 84 of the whole polymer ends was reacted and polypropylene oxide having the group represented by the formula at the polymer end was obtained. There were admixed and dissolved 128 g 1.0 M of n butyl acrylate, 3.48 g 0.015 M of γ methacryloyloxypropylmethyldimethoxysilane, 2.46 g 0.015 M of γ mercaptopropylmethyldimethoxysilane and 0.25 g of α,α azobisisobutylonitrile. A 300 milliliter four neck flask was charged with 30 g of the mixture under nitrogen gas atmosphere and it was gradually heated in an oil bath having a temperature of 70 C with stirring. Soon, the polymerization reaction started, and an exothermic reaction and an increase of viscosity of the mixture took place. The remaining above mixture was gradually added dropwise to the flask over 2.5 hours through a dropping funnel with stirring. After adding, the polymerization reaction was further continued for 1 hour with stirring. A colorless and transparent mucilage having a viscosity of 350 poises at 23 C was obtained. The polymerization conversion was 97 . In 88 g of toluene was dissolved 38.3 g 0.1 M of tetra n butoxyzirconium, and 10.0 g 0.1 M of acetylacetone was gradually added to the resulting solution with stirring. An exothermic reaction of the mixture took place to give tri n butoxyzirconium acetylacetonato. Hereinafter, the obtained toluene solution of tri n butoxyzirconium acetylacetonato was referred to as catalyst of Reference Example 3 . In 87 g of toluene was dissolved 38.3 g 0.1 M of tetra n butoxyzirconium, and 20.0 g 0.2 M of acetylacetone was gradually added to the resulting solution with stirring. An exothermic reaction of the mixture took place to give di n butoxyzirconium bisacetylacetonato. Hereinafter, the obtained toluene solution of di n butoxyzirconium bisacetylacetonato was referred to as catalyst of Reference Example 4 . In 86 g of toluene was dissolved 38.3 g 0.1 M of tetra n butoxyzirconium, and 30.0 g 0.3 M of acetylacetone was gradually added to the resulting solution with stirring. An exothermic reaction of the mixture took place to give di n butoxyzirconium trisacetylacetonato. Hereinafter, the obtained toluene solution of di n butoxyzirconium trisacetylacetonato was referred to as catalyst of Reference Example 5 . A toluene solution having a solid concentration of 80 was prepared by admixing 80 parts of a tackifier shown in Table 1 with 100 parts of the polyalkylene oxide having the reactive silicon group obtained in Reference Example 1. To the obtained solution was added a catalyst shown in Table 1. The obtained composition was applied to a polyester film commercially available under the commercial name Lumirror film made by Toray Industries Inc. having a thickness of 25 µm by employing a cotar so that the dry thickness of the coating was 25 µm. The composition was cured in a oven at 120 C for 1 to 10 minutes. The releasability of the obtained pressure sensitive adhesive tape from a silicone release paper commercially available under the commercial name EK 130R made by Soken Kako Kabushiki Kaisha was measured. The results are shown in Table 1. In Table 1, YS Polystar T 115 and YS Polystar S 145 are terpene phenol resins and are available from Yasuhara Yushi Kogyo Co., Ltd. and Staybelite Ester 7 is a hydrogenated rosin ester resin and is available from Hercules Inc. The procedure of Example 1 was repeated except that an organotin compound shown in Table 1 was employed as a curing catalyst to give a pressure sensitive adhesive tape. The releasability of the obtained pressure sensitive adhesive tape was measured. The results are shown in Table 1. From the results in Table 1, it was confirmed that the pressure sensitive adhesive composition of the invention was excellent in the releasability from the silicone release paper in comparison with the composition of Comparative Examples. A toluene solution having a solid concentration of 80 was prepared by admixing 50 parts of YS Polystar T 115 with 100 parts of the acrylic acid copolymer having the reactive silicon group obtained in Reference Example 2. To the obtained mixture was added a curing catalyst shown in Table 2 and the obtained composition was applied to a polyester film which was the same as that employed in Examples 1 to 9 having a thickness of 25 µm so that the dry thickness of the coating was 25 µm. The composition was cured in a oven at 120 C for 3 minutes to give a pressure sensitive adhesive tape. The releasability of the obtained pressure sensitive adhesive tape from a silicone release paper was measured in the same manner as in Examples 1 to 9. The results are shown in Table 2. The procedure of Example 10 was repeated except that an organotin compound shown in Table 2 was employed as a curing catalyst to give a pressure sensitive adhesive tape. The releasability of the obtained pressure sensitive adhesive composition was measured in the same manner as in Example 10. The results are shown in Table 2. From the results in Table 2, it was confirmed that the pressure sensitive adhesive composition of the invention was excellent in the silicone releasability in comparison with the composition of Comparative Examples.