# A plough.

## Abstract
A reversible plough has a main frame beam 1 carrying plough bodies 10 . The angle between the main frame beam 1 and the travel direction A is adjustable to vary the working width of the plough. This adjustment is accompanied by pivotal move ment of the plough bodies 10 to change their angle of attack so that the strip of soil worked by each of them changes in width. This pivotal movement is effected by means of a mechanical linkage 33, 39, 35 . The main frame beam 1 is connected at its front end to a transverse beam 29 by a link 27 and carries, at its rear end, a wheel 45 and supporting members 53 which are pivotable together about an axis 42 .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A plough comprising a frame, to which two or more plough bodies 10 are attached, which plough bodies l0 are pivotable about an upwardly extending axis 26, 28 to change the working width of the plough, characterized in that means 5, 7 is provided for adjusting the orientation of at least one of the plough bodies l0 with respect to the intended direction A of operative travel of the plough. 2. A plough as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the frame comprises a main frame beam l which is adjustable to vary its inclination with respect to the intended direction A of operative travel of the plough, the frame also comprising a control beam 33 , which extends generally in the longitudinal direction of the main frame beam l and is pivotally connected by an intermediate arm 35 with the main frame beam 1 . 3. A plough as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the front end of the main frame beam l is connected by a short pivotal link 27 to a transverse beam 29 , the control beam 33 being pivotally connected to the transverse beam 29 at a position spaced from the pivotal connection between the pivotal link 27 and the transverse beam 29 , the control beam 33 being pivotally connected to the main frame beam 1 by the intermediate arm at a position approximately midway along the length of the main frame beam 1 . 4. A plough as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the main frame beam 1 is pivotally supported in a manner such that, during adjustment, both the front and rear ends of the main frame beam l are displaced transversely of the intended direction A of operative travel of the plough. 5. A plough as claimed in claim 4, characterized in that the displacement of the rear end is greater than that of the front end. 6. A plough as claimed in any one of claims 3 to 5, characterlzed in that the front end of the main frame beam 1 is connected to the transverse beam 29 by two spaced pivotal joints 26, 28 . 7. A plough as claimed in any one of claims 3 to 6, characterized in that a pivotal connection 39 is provided between the control beam and the front part of the main frame beam 1 . 8. A plough as claimed in claim 7, characterized in that a hydraulic adjusting cylinder is provided between the pivotal connection between the control beam 33 and the transverse beam 29 and the pivotal connection between the connecting part 39 and the main frame beam 1 . 9. A plough as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the plough bodies l0 are simultaneously adjustable about respective upwardly extending axes 5 to vary the angle between the front face of each plough body l0 and the intended direction A of operative travel of the plough. 10. A plough as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that an adjusting mechanism for the simultaneous adjustment of the plough bodies l0 comprises an adjusting rod 24 extending along the main frame beam 1 . 11. A plough as claimed in claim 10, characterized in that the adjusting rod 24 is connected to an intermediate arm 35 extending between the control beam 33 and the main frame beam 1 . 12. A plough as claimed in claim ll, characterized in that a hydraulic adjusting cylinder 25 is provided between the adjusting rod 24 and the inter mediate arm 35 . 13. A plough as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that, with the plough in a configuration providing a maximum working width, at least one of the plough bodies l0 has a working width of 50 cms, and with the plough in a configuration providing a minimum working width, at least one of the plough bodies l0 has a working width of about 30 cms. 14. A plough as claimed In any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that with the plough in a configuration providing a maximum working width, the front face of a plough body l0 is at an angle of about 420 to the intended direction A of operative travel of the plough, whereas with the plough in a configuration providing a minimum working width, the front face of the plough body 10 is at an angle of about 230 to the direction A . 15. A plough as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that each plough body l0 comprises a share 12 and a mould board ill . 16. A plough as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that it is constructed as a reversing plough comprising at least two pairs of the plough bodies 10 , the ploughbodies l0 of each pair being disposed one above the other, each pair being pivotable about an upwardly extending axis 5 . 17. A plough as claimed in claim 16, characterized in that the plough bodies l0 of each pair can turn about a substantially horizontal axis 9 , a spring mechanism 20 acting between the plough bodies 10 of each pair in a manner such that the plough bodies l0 are maintained against respective stops 16, 17 and can deflect resillently away from the stops 16, 17 . 18. A plough as claimed in claim 17, character ized in that the spring mechanism 20 comprises a substantially horizontal leaf spring acting between supporting arms 13 for the plough bodies 10 . 19. A plough as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the plough is provided with a supporting wheel 45 and the supporting member 53 being mounted for pivotal movement together about an upwardly extending axis 42 with respect to the frame. 20. A plough as claimed in claim 19, characterized in that the supporting wheel 45 and the supporting member 53 are mounted on a rearwardly extending arm 41 which is adjustable by means of an adjusting rod 56 extending generally in the longitudinal direction of, but inclined to, the main frame beam 1 . 21. A plough as claimed in claim 20, characterized in that the adjusting rod 56 is pivotally connected to a transverse beam 29 on which the adjustable main frame beam 1 is mounted. 22. A plough as claimed in claim 21, characterized in that the pivotal connection between the transverse beam 29 and the adjusting rod 56 is near the mid point of the transverse beam 29 . 23. A plough as claimed in any one of claims 19 to 22, characterized in that the supporting wheel 45 is pivotable about a substantially horizontal axis 42A between two working positions. 24. A plough as claimed in any one of claims 19 to 23, characterized in that two said supporting members 53 are disposed one above the other, each being rotatable about a rotary axis 52 , these rotary axes 52 lying in a plane extending transversely of the intended direction A of operative travel of the plough. 25. A plough as claimed in claim 24, character ized in that the rotary axes 52 of the supporting members 53 are inclined to the horizontal. 26. A plough as claimed in any one of claims 19 to 25, characterized in that the supporting members 53 comprise wheels having a frustoconical periphery. 27. A plough as claimed in any one of claims 19 to 26, characterized in that the supporting members 53 are adjustable by means of a substantially horizontal screwthreaded spindle 50 . 28. A plough as claimed in claim 3, or in any one of claims 4 to 27 when appendant to claim 3, characterized in that the transverse beam 29 is adjustable about a substantially horizontal axIs 30 with respect to a trestle 31 provided with three point fastening means for attaching the plough to the threepoint lifting device of a tractor.

## Description
A PLOUGH This invention relates to a plough comprising a frame provided with two or more plough bodies, which are pivotable about an upwardly extending axis to vary the working width of the plough. With known ploughs, the working width of the plough can be changed in a manner enabling a nonstraight furrow to be straightened. Also, the plough width can be adapted to the width of a remaining field strip still to be ploughed. It is furthermore possible to vary the required power by varying the working width of the plough, whilst maintaining the same depth. The known ploughs have the disadvantage that the plough bodies are set to a given working width.Practically all plough bodies are suitable for ploughing a strip of about 40 cms. However, such a plough body is less suitable for ploughing a strip of 30 cms or a strip of 50 cms. A plough body intended for working a soil strip of 50 cms if it is used for working a soil strip of 30 cms will displace the soil too far. According to the present invention, means is provided for adjusting the orientation of at least one of the plough bodies with respect to the intended direction of operative travel of the plough. Consequently when a plough is moved into a configuration in which the working width is changed, the angle which the front face of the plough body makes with the direction of travel can be changed in a manner such that the orientation of the plough body matches the new working width. For example a plough body can work a strip of 30 cms when its front face is at an angle of about 230 to the direction of travel, yet the same plough body can work a strip of soil of 50 cms when its front face is at an angle of about 420 to the direction of travel.In this manner the construction according to the invention permits adaptation of the plough effectively to various working conditions and also to desired travelling speeds. According to a second aspect of the present invention, the frame comprises a main frame beam which is adjustable to vary its inclination with respect to the intended direction of operative travel of the plough, the frame comprising a control beam extending generally in the longitudinal direction of the main frame beam and being pivotally connected by an intermediate arm to the main frame beam. Such a support of the main frame beam provides an effective adjustment of the main frame beam for changing the working width of the plough. According to a further aspect of the present invention, the front end of the main frame beam is connected by a short pivotal link to a transverse beam, a control beam providing a further connection between the main frame beam and the transverse beam, the control beam being connected to the main frame beam approximately midway along the length of the main frame beam. This construction enables the main frame beam, when moved, to be guided so that as a whole it is somewhat laterally displaced. As a result the position of the main frame beam is changed with respect to the tractor track, which has advantages with respect to the location of the traction point and also when it is desired to move the plough into a transport position. The invention furthermore provides a plough comprising a supporting wheel which is adjustable, with a supporting member for absorbing lateral forces, about an upwardly extending axis. This construction makes it possible for the support of the plough to be modified simultaneously with adjustment of the working width so that effective support of the plough in the new working position of the plough is obtained. For a better understanding of the present invention and to show how it may be carried into effect, reference will now be made, by way of example, to the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is a plan view of a multi share, reversible plough in a configuration providing a maximum working width Figure 2 is a side view of the plough of Figure 1 Figure 3 is a plan view of the plough in a configuration providing a minimum working width Figure 4 is a view, on an enlarged scale, taken in the direction of the arrow IV in Figure 1 and Figure 5 is a sectional view taken on the line V V in Figure 1. The plough shown in the Figures is a multi share reversible plough and comprises a substantially horizontal main frame beam 1, the longitudinal centre line of which is, in the configuration shown in Figure 1, at an angle of about 300 to the intended direction of operative travel of the plough, which is indicated by an arrow A. The main frame beam 1 comprises aU shaped profile 2 of sheet material which is arranged so that the limbs of the U extend substantially horizontally. The ends of the limbs of the U are turned over at right angles and are fastened by bolts 3 to a plate 4 which extends the full length of the frame beam 1 and is substantially parallel to the web of the U profile 2 between the limbs. Substantially vertical shafts 5 are evenly distributed along the frame beam 1. They are mounted by means of supports 2A which are secured by the bolts 3. As shown in Figures 1 and 2, five shafts 5 are provided, one being situated near the front end of the main frame beam 1 and one being situated near the rear end. Each shaft 5 is surrounded by a sleeve 6 between its upper and lower ends. Each sleeve 6 is provided, on the side nearer the main frame beam 1, with a substantially horizontal, flat arm 7. The arm 7 passes through slots 8 in the plate 4 and in the web of theU profile 2 and projects out of the main frame beam 1. On the opposite side, the sleeve 6 is provided near the middle with a substantially horizontal shaft 9, the longitudinal centre line of which is in line with the longitudinal centre line of the flat arm 7. Each shaft 9 constitutes a support for a pair of plough bodies 10 disposed one above the other. The plough bodies of each pair can be used alternately, one working to the right and the other to the left.Working to the left and to the right means that, when travelling in the direction A, a soil slice is displaced to the left or to the right respectively. Each of the plough bodies 10 comprises a mould board 11 and a share 12 mounted on a supporting arm 13. Each supporting arm 13 extends from its plough body 10 for some distance in a substantially vertical direction downwards or upwards respectively. This vertical part meets, at a sharp bend, a part which slopes upwards or downwards respectively, and forwards and which in turn meets, at a sharp bend, a substantially horizontal, forwardly directed part which is pivotable about the shaft 9 at the front. The end of the shaft 9 is provided by means of a nut 14 and keys 15 with a stop 16, which limits movement of the horizontal part of the supporting arm 13 for the lowermost plough body 10 of each pair during operation. The stop 16 blocks movement of the front ends of the respective arms 13 about the shaft 9. For the supporting arm 13 of the upper plough body 10 of each pair, a stop 17 mounted on the sleeve 6 is arranged near the other end of the shaft 9 and near the shaft 5. On the rear of the supporting arm 13 for the lowermost plough body 10, on the inclined part, a support plate 18 is fastened which extends upwardly.Near its upper side the support plate 18 is provided with a plug 19 surrounded by the curved end of a leaf spring 20. The leaf spring 20 extends substantially horizontally and a curved portion at its front end receives a plug 21, which is secured near the top of a lug 22 fastened to the supporting arm 13 for the upper plough body 10 near its front end. Figure 2 shows that the leaf spring 20 is slightly curved upwardly to create a resilient mechanism which presses the respective supporting arms 13 against the stops 16 and 17 respectively. Each of the flat arms 7 is pivotally mounted by means of a pin 23 between two spaced hollow profiles which are substantially parallel to the main frame beam 1. These profiles constitute an adjusting rod 24, which is displaceable in a direction substantially parallel to the longitudinal centre line of the main frame beam 1 to turn the sleeves 6 about the shafts 5 and hence to adjust the respective plough bodies 10.The adjusting rod 24 and the arms 7 constitute an adjusting mechanism for the plough bodies 10. Adjustment can be performed through an angle of about 200.Viewed on plan, the pivotal axes formed by the shafts 5 are disposed near the foremost tip of the share 12 of the respective plough body. The adjusting rod 24 is pivotally connected to an end of a hydraulic cylinder 25 at a position between the third and fourth pair of plough bodies 10 from the front. The front end of the main frame beam 1 is pivotally connected by means of an upwardly extending, preferably vertical pin 26 to one end of a swinging piece 27 comprising two strips lying one above the other. The other end of the swinging piece 27 is pivotally connected by a pin 28, which is parallel to the pin 26, to a substantially horizontal transverse beam 29. The swinging piece 27 constitutes a short pivotal link for the main frame beam, so that the front end of the frame beam 1 can furthermore move transversely. A substantially horizontal shaft 30 extending in the direction of movement A connects the transverse beam 29 to a trestle 31 provided with three point fastening means for attaching the plough to the lifting device of a tractor. The end of the transverse beam 29 away from the swinging piece 27 is pivoted by means of an upwardly extending, preferably vertical, pin 32 to a rearwardly directed control beam 33 extending generally lengthwise of the main frame beam 1. The beam 33 is pivoted at its rear end to one end of an intermediate arm 35 by means of an upwardly extending, preferably vertical, pin 34. The other end of the arm 35 is pivotally connected by means of an upwardly extending, preferably vertical, pin 36 to the main frame beam 1 at its middle. The front end of the adjusting cylinder 25 connected to the adjusting rod 24 is pivoted to the middle of the arm 35 Figure 1 . Just in front of the mid point of the beam 33, on the side facing the main frame beam 1, the beam 33 is provided with a lug 37 which is connected by an upwardly extending, preferably vertical, pin 38 to one end of a connecting part 39. The other end of the connecting part 39 is pivotally connected by a pin 40, which is parallel to the pin 38, to the main frame beam 1. The pin 40 is ahead of the pin 38 on the beam 33, approximately level with the front pair of plough bodies 10. Between the pivotal connection between the transverse beam 29 and the rearwardly extending beam 33 and the pivotal connection between the main frame beam 1 and the connecting piece 39, there is a hydraulic cylinder 40A. At its rear end the main frame beam 1 is provided with a rearwardly directed arm 41 which is pivotable about a substantially vertical pin 42 with respect to the main frame beam 1. An arm 43 is mounted on the arm 41, on the side away from the plough bodies 10, by means of a substantially horizontal shaft 42A extending transversely of the direction A. A shaft 44 is provided at the end of the arm 43 and extends transversely of the directionA. The shaft 44 carries a ground wheel 45. Near its free end, the arm 41 is provided with an upwardly extending support 46 extending both above and below the arm 41. Near its top and bottom ends, the support 46 is provided with shafts 47 extending transversely of the direction A. Each shaft 47 carries a crank 48. At their adjacent ends, the cranks 48 each comprise a short arm which is pivotally connected to a part 49 located centrally between the shafts 47 and having a screw threaded opening, through which passes the end of a screw spindle 50. The screw spindle 50 is supported by a support 51 provided on the arm 41. The respective cranks 48 also each comprise long arm which slopes to the rear and is provided at its free end with a shaft 52. The longitudinal axes of the shafts 52 lie, in operation, in a plane extending substantially transversely of the direction A. The longitudinal centre lines of the respective shafts 52 are at an angle of about 450 to the horizontal. Each shaft 52 carries a supporting member 53 in the form of a wheel having a peripheral flange and a frustoconical face having vertex angle of about 200 in a manner such that, during operation, the circumferential face can bear on the inner side of a slice. This supporting member is thus able to absorb lateral reactive forces exerted on the plough by the plough bodies 10. The supporting members 53 in the form of wheels mean that plough bodies can be used without sole irons so that adjustability about the upwardly extending shafts 5 is not hindered. At its front end the arm 41 has a support 54, which is pivotally connected by an upwardly extending, preferably substantially vertical, pin 55 to a forwardly extending adjusting rod 56. At its front end, the adjusting rod 56 is pivotally connected by a pin 57 arranged in the same manner as the pin 55 in a lug 58 provided near the middle of the transverse beam 29 on its rear side. The adjusting rod 56 is inclined at an acute angle to the main frame beam 1 Figure 1 .Between the transverse beam 29 and the trestle 31 there is a reversal mechanism of known construction not shown so that, at the end of each working run, the plough can be lifted and reversed to bring the previously upper plough bodies into the lower position so that the plough is ready for right hand working. For operation, the trestle 31 is attached to a three point lifting device of a tractor and the hydraulic adjusting cylinders 25 and 40 are connected through ducts not shown in detail to the hydraulic system of the tractor. The working depth can be set in a manner not shown with the aid of the ground wheel 45. The plough, in the configuration shown in Figure 1, can be moved in the direction A, in which case the working plough bodies 10 displace the soil to the left. Each of the plough bodies 10 is constructed so that the mould board 11 projects laterally beyond the share towards the unworked soil so that the upright wall of the furrow which is formed has at least partly an inclined form in the direction towards the soil to be still ploughed. The working width of the plough when the main frame beam 1 occupies the position indicated in Figure 1 can be reduced by turning the main frame beam 1 about the short pivotal link formed by the pins 26 and 28 and the swinging piece 27. This adjustment can be performed from the tractor by actuating the adjusting cylinder 40A. When this cylinder is actuated the main frame beam 1 starts turning and at the same time moves laterally, so that eventually the frame beam 1 reaches the position shown in Figure 3. The specific support of the frame beam by the spaced pivotal pins 26 and 28, the beam 33, the intermediate arm 35 and the connecting part 39 means that both the front and rear ends of the main frame beam are displaced upon adjustment, the rear end of the main frame beam being displaced further than the front end. During displacement of the main frame beam, the connecting part 39 and the beam 33 act as a guide so that accurate displacement of the main frame beam and thus accurate setting of the desired working width are obtainable. Since the front end of the main frame beam 1 moves during shift towards the direction of the frame beam Figures 1 and 3 the plough in the position shown in Figure 3 occupies a favourable position relatively to the tractor for transport purposes. In the starting position indicated above Figure 1 , in which the working width of the plough is largest 2.50 metres , each plough body 10 is oriented such that a strip of 50 cms is engaged and its front face is inclined at an angle of about 420 to the direction A. During the swing of the main frame beam 1 and hence of the beam 33 connected by the intermediate arm 35 to the main frame beam 1, a force is exerted on the adjusting rod 24 which turns the plough bodies 10, via the arms 7, simultaneously through about 200 about the shafts 5 so that they eventually reach the position shown in Figure 3.In this position the orientation of the plough bodies 10 is again adapted as far as possible to the set working width, and the front faces of the plough bodies are inclined at an angle of about 230 to the direction A, so that they each engage a strip of about 30 cms, the working width of the plough being 1.50 metres. The assembly is dimensioned and constructed so that even in intermediate positions of the main frame beam 1 the plough bodies 10 assume the most advantageous orientation. If it is desired to work other kinds of soil or if weather conditions are different, the orientation of the plough bodies 10 can be further adjusted by means of the adjusting cylinder 25. This can also be done to work at a higher or lower speed or to vary the required power. The adjusting rod 56 is arranged so that when the main frame beam 1 turns the orientation of the rearwardly extending arm 41 remains the same with respect to the direction A, that is to say substantially parallel to the direction A. If, during operation, the operative plough body 10 of one of the pairs strikes an obstacle, this plough body can deflect upwardly by pivoting of the supporting arm 13 about its shaft 9. During this deflection, the position of the upper, inoperative plough body 10 is substantially unchanged. In this manner, with the aid of a single spring mechanism comprising the substantially horizontal leaf spring 20, such a deflection of a plough body 10 can be obtained that it can readily return to its original position, since the displacement is relatively small. The screw spindle 56, which is readily accessible owing to its rearwardly directed disposition, enables the position of the supporting members 53 to be adapted to prevailing conditions. As stated above, at the end of each working run, the plough is lifted and a reverse of about 1800 can be performed by means of a known reversing mechanism not shown in detail so that the other plough body 10 of each pair, working to the right hand side, can be put into operation. At the same time, the ground wheel 45 has to be turned about the transverse shaft 42 and is put into a new working position, after which, as the case may be, the newly operative supporting member 53 can still be adjusted. Whilst various features of the plough that have been described, and that are illustrated in the drawings, will be set forth in the following claims as inventive features, it is to be noted that the invention is not necessarily limited to these features and that it encompasses all of the features that have been described both individually and in various combinations.