# Grease composition.

## Abstract
Grease compositions including borated epoxides as friction reducing additives, are thickened with a proportion of metal hydroxy containing soap grease thickener. Such compositions have unexpectedly high dropping points.

## Claims
1. A grease composition comprising a major amount of a grease and from 0.01 to 10 by weight of the reaction product of an epoxide of the formula I in which each of R, R¹, R² and R³ is hydrogen or a hydrocarbyl group containing from 1 to 30 carbon atoms with at least one being hydrocarbyl, and a boron compound, characterized in that the grease includes a thickener containing at least 15 by weight of a hydroxy containing soap thickener.

## Description
This invention relates to grease compositions comprising hydroxy containing soap thickeners and borated epoxides. U.S. Patent 4,410,438 describes lubricant compositions, including greases, comprising borated epoxides in which boron is present in excess. Also, certain other forms of epoxides have been used in lubricants. For example, U. S. Patent 4,244,829 describes the use of epoxidized fatty acid esters as lubricating agents in lubricating oils In accordance with the invention, there is provided a grease composition containing a major proportion of a grease and a minor amount of a compound prepared by reacting an epoxide of the formula I in which each of R, R¹, R² and R³ is hydrogen or a C₁ to C₃₀ hydrocarbyl group with at least one being a hydrocarbyl group, with a boron compound, especially a metaborate or other similar boron source, boric acid, boric oxide or an alkyl borate of the formula Preferably the epoxide is overborated, that is to say the borated product contains more than a stoichiometric amount of boron. The borated epoxides can be made by reacting an epoxide with a suitable boron compound such as boric oxide, boric acid or an alkyl borate, or a mixture thereof. The resulting products are primarily monoborate esters, but other possible products are those of the reaction between epoxide dimers, or higher oligomers, and a boron compound to form the corresponding borate esters. The hydrocarbyl groups of the epoxide may be alkyl, aryl, cycloalkyl or cycolalkenyl groups containing from 8 to 30 carbon atoms, preferably 10 to 22 carbon atoms. Preferably, the hydrocarbyl groups are alkyl groups. Suitable epoxides are, for example, 1,2 epoxyoctane, 1,2 epoxydecane, 1,2 epoxydodecane, 1,2 epoxytetradecane, 1,2 epoxypentadecane, 1,2 epoxyhexadecane, 1,2 epoxyheptadecane, 1,2 epoxyoctadecane, 1,2 epoxyeicosane and mixtures of such epoxides, as well as mixtures of other epoxides. These include epoxides of mixtures of C₂₂ to C₃₀ olefins and of mixtures of C₂₄ to C₂₈ olefins. Also included are epoxides derived from dimers of octene, dimers of decene, dimers of mixed octene and decene, epoxides from decene trimers, epoxides from propylene trimers and tetramers and butylene dimers, trimers and tetramers, and the like. As stated above, the boron compound is boric acid, boric oxide or an alkyl borate, preferably boric acid. The alkyl borates include the mono , di and trialkyl borates, such as the mono , di and triethyl borates. The reaction to form the borate ester can be carried out at from about 80 C to about 260 , preferably from about 110 C to about 180 C. The temperature chosen will depend for the most part on the particular reactants and on whether or not a solvent is used. In carrying out this reaction, it is preferred that quantities of reactants are chosen such that the molar ratio of epoxide to boron compound is from about 0.2 to about 1, preferably from about 0.5 to about 0.9. The epoxide can be reacted with an excess of the borating agent to form a borate ester containing from about 0.1 by weight of boron to as much as 10 or more of boron. While atmospheric pressure is generally preferred, the reaction can be advantageously carried out under a pressure from about 100 to about 500 kPa. Furthermore, where conditions warrant, a solvent may be used. In general, any relatively non polar, unreactive solvent can be used, including benzene, toluene, xylene and 1,4 dioxane. Other hydrocarbon and alcoholic solvents, which include propanol and butanol, can be used. Mixtures of alcoholic and hydrocarbon solvents can be used also. The time for the reaction is not critical. Thus, any phase of the process can be carried out in a period from about 1 to about 20 hours. The thickening agents used in formulating the grease compositions of the invention are those containing at least a portion of alkali metal, alkaline earth metal or amine soaps of hydroxyl containing fatty acids, fatty glycerides and fatty esters having from 12 to about 30 carbon atoms per molecule. The metals are typified by sodium, lithium, calcium and barium. Preferred is lithium. Preferred members among these acids and fatty materials are 12 hydroxystearic acid and glycerides containing 12 hydroxystearates, 14 hydroxystearic acid, 16 hydroxystearic acid and 6 hydroxystearic acid. These thickeners need not constitute the total amount of thickener in the grease compositions. Significant benefit can be attained using as little as about 15 by weight of these thickeners based on the total thickener. A complementary amount, that is, up to about 85 by weight of a wide variety of other thickening agents can be used in the grease compositions of the invention. Included among the other useful thickening agents are alkali and alkaline earth metal soaps of methyl 12 hydroxystearate, diesters of C₄ to C₁₂ dicarboxylic acids and tall oil fatty acids. Other alkali or alkaline earth metal fatty acids containing from 12 to 30 carbon atoms and no free hydroxyl groups may be used. These include soaps of stearic and oleic acids. Other thickening agents include salt and salt soap complexes as calcium stearate acetate U.S. Patent 2,197,263 , barium stearate acetate U.S. Patent 2,564,561 , calcium, stearate caprylate acetate complexes U.S. Patent 2,999,065 , calcium caprylate acetate U.S. Patent 2,999,066 , and calcium salts and soaps of low , intermediate and high molecular weight acids and of nut oil acids. Another group of thickening agents comprises substituted ureas, phthalocyamines, indanthrene, pigments such as perylimides, pyromellitdiimides, and ammeline, as well as certain hydrophobic clays. These thickening agents can be prepared from clays which are initially hydrophilic in character, but which have been converted into a hydrophobic condition by the introduction of long chain hydrocaron radicals into the surface of the clay particles prior to their use as a component of a grease composition, for example by being subjected to a preliminary treatment with an organic cationic surface active agent, such as an onium compound. Typical onium compounds are tetraalkylammonium chlorides, such as dimethyl dioctadecyl ammonium chloride, dimethyl dibenzyl ammonium chloride and mixtures thereof. In accordance with the invention, the thickener will contain at least 15 by weight of a metal or non metal hydroxy containing soap, and the total thickener preferably constitutes from about 3 to about 20 by weight of the total grease composition. The grease also contains from about 0.01 to about 10 by weight, preferably from about 0.1 to about 2 , of the borated epoxide, advantageously obtained by reacting the epoxide with at least an equimolar amount of a boron compound. It has been found that the grease compositions according to the invention containing both the hydroxy containing thickeners and the borated epoxides have dropping points consistently and unexpectedly higher than those of greases derived from the same grease vehicles and the same borated epoxides, but with different thickeners, for example non hydroxy containing thickeners. In general, the borated epoxides may be employed in any amount which is effective for imparting the desired degree of friction reduction, antiwear activity, antioxidant activity, high temperature stability or antirust activity. The grease compositions of the invention can be made from either mineral oil or synthetic oil or mixtures thereof. In general, mineral oils, both paraffinic, naphthenic and mixtures thereof, may be of any suitable lubricating viscosity range, as for example, from about 45 SSU at 38 C to about 6000 SSU at 38 C, and preferably from about 50 to about 250 SSU at 99 C. These oils may have viscosity indexes ranging to about 100 or higher. Viscosity indexes from about 70 to about 95 are preferred. The average molecular weights of these oils may range from about 250 to about 800. In making the grease, the lubricating oil from which it is prepared is generally employed in an amount sufficient to balance the total grease composition, after accounting for the desired quantity of the thickening agent and other additive components. When synthetic oils are used in preference to mineral oils, various compounds of this type may be utilized. Typical synthetic vehicles include polyisobutylene, polybutenes, hydrogenated polydecenes, polypropylene glycol, polyethylene glycol, trimethylol propane esters, neopentyl and pentaerythritol esters, di 2 ethylhexyl sebacate, di 2 ethylhexyl adipate, dibutyl phthalate, fluorocarbons, silicate esters, silanes, esters of phosphorus containing acids, liquid ureas, ferrocene derivatives, hydrogenated synthetic oils, chain type polyphenyls, siloxanes and silicones polysiloxanes , alkyl substituted diphenyl ethers typified by a butyl substituted bis p phenoxy phenyl ether, phenoxy phenylethers. The grease compositions according to the invention possess the advantages of increased dropping point and improved grease consistency properties unavailable in any known grease. The grease compositions of the invention have the additional advantage that they can be manufactured simply by mixing additive quantities of the borated epoxides with the fully formed soap grease after completion of saponification. The following Examples illustrate the invention. Approximately 1440g of 1,2 epoxyhexadecane obtained commercially from Union Carbide , 500g of toluene and 500g of boric acid were charged to a 5 liter glass reactor equipped with heater, agitator and Dean Stark tube with condenser. The contents were heated to 144 C with agitation until water evolution stopped this took a period of about 10 hours. The solvent was removed by vacuum distillation at about 160 C, and the product was filtered at about 120 C through diatomaceous earth to yield a clear amber fluid which cooled to an amber waxy fluid. A lithium hydroxystearate grease thickener was prepared by saponification of a mixture containing about 8 by weight of 12 hydroxystearic acid and 9 by weight of the glyceride thereof, with lithium hydroxide monohydrate 2.5 by weight in a mineral oil vehicle about 76 by weight at about 177 C and final pressure of about 860 kPa in a closed vessel. The thickener of Example 2 was dehydrated in an open kettle and 1.4 by weight of the borated epoxide prepared in Example 1 was added to the grease concentrate. A base grease was thickened with the lithium soap of a 50 50 by weight mixture of stearic and palmitic acids non hydroxy containing thickeners . The base grease of Example 2 and the base grease of Example 4, were mixed to form a 50 50 by weight mixture of hydroxy and non hydroxy containing thickeners. The base grease of Example 4 was mixed with 2 by weight of the borated epoxide of Example 1. The base grease of Example 5 was mixed with a 1 and b 2 of the borated epoxide of Example 1. The results obtained using these grease formulations in the ASTM D2265 78 grease dropping point tests are shown in the following Table. The dropping point of the dehydrated hydroxystearate thickener without borated epoxide was 199 C. Adding 1.4 by weight of borated epoxide to the thickener increased the dropping point unexpectedly and dramatically to 257 C.