# A PHASE TRANSITION TYPE LIQUID CRYSTAL COMPOSITION

## Claims
Flüssigkristallzusammensetzung, welche eine positive, dielektrische Anisotropie aufweist, und welche ein cholesterisch nematischer Phasenübergangstyp Flüssigkristall ist, die eine Mischung von einer Estertyp Flüssigkeitskristallverbindung und einer chiralen nematischen Flüssigkeitskristallverbindung enthält, und der zumindest eine Bicyclohexantyp Flüssigkristallverbindung zugefügt ist.

## Description
This invention relates to a phase transition type liquid crystal composition. In particular, this invention relates to a cholesteric nematic phase transition type liquid crystal composition whose dielectric anisotropy is positive. Surprisingly, liquid crystal devices or elements produced using the liquid crystal composition of this invention can be effectively used in a keyboard input operation due to their fast writing capability, and provide large scale or area display devices similar to those well known in the art, such as cathode ray tube CRT display devices. Various X Y dot matrix type liquid crystal display devices based on different display modes have been proposed and used for the display purposes. One of the conventional display modes is a dynamic scattering mode DSM utilizing dynamic scattering effects. Liquid crystal display devices based on DSM, however, cannot be used in large scale displays. This is because, in such devices, cross talk is undesirably caused with an increase of display area, namely, increase of scanning lines, and they have a lower cut off frequency. Another display mode, mainly used in the field of liquid crystal displays, is the twisted nematic TN mode utilizing twisted nematic effects. However, as in the DSM type devices, the TN type liquid crystal devices suffer from cross talk when they are used in a large scale dot matrix display, because their liquid crystal has no sudden rise characteristic. This means they are not suitable for large scale display. In addition to this, in a large scale display, the TN type devices suffer from a remarkably limited viewing angle and therefore an unacceptably decreased contrast. The narrowing of the viewing angle with an increase of the scanning lines is a critical drawback to a large scale display and must be overcome. Numerous researchers have made experiments and studies in order to overcome the drawbacks of the above discussed DSM type and TN type display devices , and found a new type of liquid crystal display device, i.e., a storage type liquid crystal device which is characterized by being capable of maintaining written information or a display in a storage state after one application of voltage and thereafter removal of the applied voltage without further application of voltage because of memory effects of the selected specific liquid crystals. This enables realization of a large scale display on the order of 500 scanning lines. Such a large scale display could not be attained with the conventional DSM type and TN type display devices of an X Y dot matrix type. However, the storage type liquid crystal display usually requires a driving voltage of 20 V, an extremely high driving voltage for a liquid crystal display. When attempting to drive the storage type liquid crystal display with a voltage in the range possible by a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS , even if writing is possible, almost no storage time is obtained, making use as a storage type liquid crystal display element impossible. For this reason, the above mentioned storage type liquid crystal display could not be driven by a CMOS integrated circuit IC . Furthermore, while a large scale dot matrix display has been possible in principle, because mounting of a driving circuit was difficult, the storage type liquid crystal display could not be utilized for actual display devices. Japanese Unexamined Patent Publication Kokai No. 50 159294 proposed a matrix type liquid crystal device based on a nematic cholesteric mixed liquid crystal display system, which utilizes a Schiff type cholesteric liquid crystal, for example, cholesteryl chloride. This type of liquid crystal device can overcome the problem of cross talk discussed above and ensure an increased contrast in a large scale display, but has the drawback that in the case of an X Y matrix display drive, when the liquid crystal is transferred to a storage state after the completion of the writing of one picture, the entire picture becomes temporarily cloudy, e.g., for 10 seconds. The clouding of the entire picture means that the information on the display disappears, even if only temporarily, making the operator uneasy. Furthermore, when the written in picture is partially rewritten, the rewritten part becomes temporarily cloudy in the same manner each time, making the rewriting operation longer. Under these circumstances, we found an improved storage type liquid crystal composition and an X Y dot matrix type liquid crystal display device using the liquid crystal composition. Japanese Unexamined Patent Publication Kokai No. 59 126492 and the equivalent U.S. Serial No. 558,475 filed December 6, 1983, provided a storage type liquid crystal composition in which a nematic cholesteric mixture liquid crystal exhibiting a positive anisotropy of dielectric constant is used. The composition comprises a cyclohexane type liquid crystal having a high anisotropy of the dielectric constant Δε and a low viscosity η , as a nematic liquid crystal an azoxy type liquid crystal having an abrupt rising property and a compensated cholesteric liquid crystal having a large spiral pitch and a property of making the viscosity low when admixed with the nematic liquid crystal and or the same type of liquid crystal having a property of making the viscosity low, such as cholesteryl oleate, as a cholesteric liquid crystal. The storage type liquid crystal composition we found is effective to overcome drawbacks of the above discussed prior art liquid crystal compositions and devices. In fact, in this storage type liquid crystal composition, the driving voltage is low, e.g., 7.0V to 4.4V, and no temporary clouding occurs. However, this liquid crystal composition is not satisfactory, since it can not provide a liquid crystal device having compatibility with a keyboard input system which is a conventional input manner in the field of display. Recently, we found a more improved storage type liquid crystal display device using a new driving method cf., for example, Japanese Patent Application No. 59 107404, filed May 29, 1984 . The liquid crystal display device, as is disclosed in the specification, uses as the liquid crystal material a liquid crystal composition comprising 10 to 90 by weight of cyanobiphenyl type liquid crystal compound and 7 to 30 by weight of 4 cyano 4 2 methylbutylbiphenyl type liquid crystal compound. In this display device, two optical states, i.e., focal conic or F state cloudy state and homeotropic or H state transparent state can be produced and maintained with application of the same retention voltage. It has been found that this device is useful in a large size display and a keyboard input system, shows a high contrast display, and has no flicker. One drawback of this device is that stable homeotropic or H state cannot be attained with application of the retention voltage. In fact, the H state is metastable and therefore is changed to the focal conic or F state after about 20 to 30 seconds. It is believed that such a change of state is caused because the atmospheric conditions such as humidity adversely affect the characteristics of the liquid crystal material. Another drawback is that the response speed of the device is relatively slow. It is therefore desirable to provide a novel liquid crystal composition having none of the drawbacks discussed above. According to this invention, there is provided a liquid crystal composition which exhibits a positive dielectric anisotropy, and which is a cholesteric nematic phase transition type liquid crystal comprising a mixture of ester type liquid crystal compound and chiral nematic liquid crystal compound having added thereto at least one bicyclohexane type liquid crystal compound. Unexpectedly, the described liquid crystal composition has an extended width or Before the discussing of each of the liquid crystal compounds used in the composition of this invention, it will be explained how we found the described combination of the liquid crystal compounds which shows many unexpected effects. First, in order to attain a stabilization of the metastable homeotropic or H state, we studied the hysteresis curve of the cholesteric nematic mixed liquid crystal. We learned from the study that the H state will be stabilized if a width or Second, we learned during study of the liquid crystal materials suitable in the extension of the voltage hysteresis width As a result of study, as described above, we found that a remarkably extended width of the voltage hysteresis can be attained if a mixture of at least one estertype liquid crystal compound having an ester linkage in its molecular structure and at least one chiral nematic liquid crystal compound is combined with at least one bicyclohexane type liquid crystal compound having two The liquid crystal compositiobn of the invention may additionally comprise an ethane type liquid crystal compound. In the present invention, the liquid crystal composition containing all of the above described four liquid crystal compounds is the most preferred. It shows a fast writing speed and a wide mesorange which is an indication of liquid crystal at room temperature, in addition to a large voltage hysteresis width. The liquid crystal composition containing three components, namely, ethane type, ester type and chiral nematic liquid crystal compounds, shows a larger hysteresis width than that of the last described one, but tends to narrow the mesorange. A liquid crystal composition containing bicyclohexane type, ester type, and chiral nematic liquid crystal compounds is effective to reduce a viscosity of the resulting liquid crystal and extend the hysteresis width, while the amount of extension is smaller than that of the last described composition containing the ethane type liquid crystal compound. The ethane type liquid crystal compounds which may be used in the present invention are considered to be mainly effective to extend a voltage hysteresis width ΔV because of their ethylenic linkage positioned as a central group between two ring structures. In fact, due to their molecular structure, they can freely move rotate or flex . Namely, they can show free rotation about the single bond of the ethylenic linkage, stretching vibration, bending vibration, and twisting or wagging. Ethylenic linkage in which two carbon atoms are connected by a single bond, and two carbon tetrahedra can rotate about single bond, so various arrangements of the stoms in a molecule arise by rotation about single bond such as staggrered conformation, eclipsed conformation or skew conformation. As a result, these ethane type compounds can show an increased flexibility, and moderate a conversion of from a nematic phase H state to a cholesteric phase F state . Further, they can act stably. The ethane type liquid crystal compounds useful in the liquid crystal composition of this invention are represented by the formula in which R₁ , R₃ , R₅ , and R₇ may be the same or different and each represents an alkyl group of 2 to 7 carbon atoms, a fluorine atom F , a bromine atom Br , or a cyano group CN , Typical examples of the ethane type liquid crystal compounds useful herein include or the like. The described ethane type liquid crystal compounds can be used in an amount of about 10 to 70 by weight, preferably about 10 to 40 by weight, based on the total weight of the liquid crystal composition. The above range of the described compounds is the most preferred one in view of inhibiting an excessive increase of the viscosity and ensuring a satisfactory mesorange in which the compounds acts as a liquid crystal, while a wider ΔV hysteresis width can be attained if the compounds are used in any amount exceeding the upper limit. Similarly, the other three liquid crystal compounds discussed in detail hereinafter can be usefully used in the specified range. The bicyclohexane type liquid crystal compounds used in the present invention, due to their cyclohexane ring structure, can freely move or flex . This is because the cyclohexane ring structure can take two conformations i.e., chair type and boat type, and these conformations can be changed to each other. Bicyclohexane having two cyclohexane rings can revolve freely around their common axis. Further, they can contribute to an extension of the voltage hysteresis width, a reduction of the viscosity of the liquid crystal composition, and a speeding up of writing. They can act stably, too. The bicyclohexane type liquid crystal compounds useful separately or in combination with the above discussed ethane type one in the liquid crystal composition of this invention are represented by the formula in which Typical examples of the bicyclohexane type liquid crystal compounds useful herein include or the like. These liquid crystal compounds can be used in an amount of about 10 to 60 by weight, preferably about 20 to 40 by weight, based on the total weight of the liquid crystal composition. Further, the ester type liquid crystal compounds used in the present invention can mainly contribute to an extension of the mesorange of the resulting liquid crystal composition when one or more of them are used in combination with the above discussed bicyclo hexane type liquid crystal compounds. Typical examples of the ester type liquid crystal compounds useful in the practice of the present invention include or the like. Optionally, an oxygen atom of the central group COO of the described liquid crystal compounds may be substituted with a sultur atom to form the corresponding thioester type liquid crystal compounds, for example The above described ester type and thioester type liquid crystal compounds can be used in an amount of abut 15 to 85 by weight, preferably about 20 to 55 by weight, based on the total weight of the liquid crystal composition. Furthermore, the chiral nematic liquid crystal compounds used in the present invention are effectively used to give a helical structure to the resulting liquid crystal composition. Typical examples of the chiral nematic liquid crystal compounds useful in the practice of the present invention include in which C means an asymmetric carbon atom. These chiral nematic liquid crystal compounds can be generally used in an amount of about 8 to 40 by weight, preferably about 10 to 30 by weight, based on the total weight of the liquid crystal composition. In the production of a cholesteric storage type liquid crystal display device, they must be used in an amount of about 4 to 80 by weight, since the chiral nematic liquid crystal compounds belong to a group of the cholesteric liquid crystals. In the practice of the present invention, if desired, additional amounts of conventional liquid crystal compounds such as biphenyl type, dioxane type, pyrimidine type, cyclohexane benzene type, or terphenyl or cyclohexanebiphenyl type liquid crystal compounds may be added to the liquid crystal composition improve its characteristics. Practically, we used, as an additive, some of these conventional liquid crystal compounds in the hereinafter described working examples. Generally, the biphenyl type liquid crystal compounds are effectively used to reduce a driving voltage, because they have a positive dielectric anisotropy and the anisotropy is large. In particular, C₅H₁₁ CN having a low viscosity is effective to reduce a viscosity of the resulting liquid crystal composition. These compounds are usually used in an amount of several percent by weight to 20 by weight, because these compounds have rather straight and hard structure at the central bonds, so if the more these compounds used, the narrower the ΔV. The dioxane type liquid crystal compounds have a remarkably increased dielectric anisotropy and therefore are effective to reduce a driving voltage. However, in the phase transition type liquid crystal, the driving voltage mainly depends on Δε and viscosity, so that dioxane type compounds should not be used in higher amounts, since they tend to increase the viscosity. Generally, they should be used in an amount of several percent by weight to 15 or 20 by weight. Further, it is contemplated to use pyrimidine type liquid crystal compounds in combination with bicyclohexane type, ethane type, or other liquid crystal compounds to extend the voltage hysteresis width ΔV. The freedom of the movement in the molecule which is considered to be caused due to heterocyclic compounds contained in the molecule are in conformity with other liquid crystal compounds. The pyrimidine type liquid crystal compounds should be used in at most 15 by weight, because they have an increased viscosity. In addition to these conventional liquid crystal compounds, cyclohexane type liquid crystal compounds are also useful. The cyclohexane type compounds, due to their low viscosity, are effectively used to reduce a driving voltage as a result of reduction of the viscosity of the resulting composition. However, these compounds, due to their small refractive anisotropy, if the more these compounds are used, the smaller the intensity of the light scattering and the lower the contrast. These compounds are preferably used in an amount of several percent by weight to 20 by weight. Small amounts, for example, 10 by weight or less, of the terphenyl or cyclohexanebiphenyl type liquid crystal compounds are also useful. These compounds can increase the light scattering intensity. However, these compounds, due to their high viscosity, if the more these compounds used, the higher the driving voltage. This invention will be further described with reference to the accompany drawings. Referring now to Fig. 1, there is illustrated the display principle of the liquid crystal composition according to the present invention, from which figure it will be understood that the display principle is based on a cholesteric nematic phase transition phenomenon. The nematic cholesteric phase transition type liquid crystal having positive dielectric anisotropy indicates the characteristics of the light transmittance vs. applied voltage as shown in Fig. 1. By increasing the electric field applied to the liquid crystal, the liquid crystal display panel changes of from the cloudy state cholesteric phase F to the transparent state nematic phase H , and by decreasing the electric field applied to the liquid crystal, the liquid crystal display panel transits of from the nematic phase H to the cholesteric phase F via metastable transparent state nematic phase H . At F phase, the liquid crystal in the panel holds spiral or helical structure as shown in fig. 1, and the helical axis of the liquid crystal structure is parallel to the substrate of the panel and the incident light to the panel is scattered by the liquid crystal, and the panel becomes cloudy state. On the other hand, at H phase, the liquid crystal in the panel dissolves the helical structure and the liquid crystal molecules are aligned perpendicularly to the substrate of the panel as shown in Fig. 1, and the liquid crystal becomes homeotropic transparent state. At H phase, the liquid crystal indicates homeotropic state, but the liquid crystal molecules at the central portion from the substrates of the panel are inclined somewhat to the liquid crystal molecules near the substrates which are vertically aligned to the substrates, as shown in Fig. 1. Thus, at H phase, there is difference in the inclining angle of the liquid crystal molecules between the liquid crystal molecules near the substrate and the liquid crystal molecules at the central portion of the substrates of the panel. In this state, high freedom of the movements of the liquid crystal molecule such as rotation, bending or flexing is useful and effective to retain the homeotropic transparent state stably. On the other hand, in such circumstances, the axis inclining of the liquid crystal molecule having relatively rigid or hard structure at the central portion of the substrates of the panel are transmitted to the molecules near the substrates, and the liquid crystal rapidly changes its phase from homeotropic state to focal conic state. Further, the H phase is meta stable state which transits or changes to the F phase by such as heat disturbance. The meta stability of the H phase affects to the magnitude of the hysteresis effect and stability. To evaluate the magnitude and stability of the hysteresis effect of the liquid crystal, it is effective to define ΔV. As shown in Fig. 1, ΔV is defined such that ΔV Vu²⁰ Vd⁹⁰ wherein Vu²⁰ is the applied voltage to the panel which gives 20 light transmittance on the cholesteric nematic phase transition curve of Fig. 1, and Vd⁹⁰ is the applied voltage which gives 90 light transmittance on the nematic cholesteric phase transition curve of Fig. 1. ΔV is a parameter which indicates the magnitude of the hysteresis. In the measurement of the voltage hysteresis width ΔV which corresponds to the actual driving mode, two step processes can be used. First step is made to ascertain the relationship of the light transmittance vs. applied voltage in the phase transition from cholesteric phase to nematic phase. At first, selected voltage V₀ is applied to the selected point of the substrates of the panel, and the time dependency of the light transmittance ratio is measured. Next, voltage V₁ which is slightly higher than the voltage V₀ is applied to the selected point of the panel, and the time dependency of the light transmittance ratio is measured. As same above, applied voltage to the selected point of the panel is gradually and slightly increased until the voltage becomes equal to or higher than the voltage V Each of the light transmittance data for 10 seconds later after applying voltage was picked up from the data of the time dependence of the light transmittance to the applied voltage. And then, the relationship between the applied voltage and light transmittance was plotted. Second step is made to ascertain the relationship between the light transmittance and applied voltage in the phase transition from nematic phase to cholesteric phase. Measurements were done as in the first step described above, except that the applied voltage to the panel was gradually decreased from the voltage equal or higher than the voltage V The display principle of the described liquid crystal composition is furthermore described. First, a voltage of V When the applied voltage is reduced to zero, the liquid crystal 1 in the dark state is converted in from the H state to the F₀ state, which consists of a cholesteric phase see Fig. 1 and Fig. 2a . The liquid crystal 1, after once converted to the F₀ state, is converted to the F state, which is optically the same as the F₀ state, when the retention voltage Vd is applied thereto. The liquid crystal 1 in the F₀ and F states has a helical structure, which means that the radiation is rotated or scattered during transmittance. Accordingly, as is shown in Fig. 2a, the radiation 6 is at least partly passed through the polarizing plate 5. The liquid crystal 1 in the light state results. On the other hand, the initial H state can be constantly maintained due to hysteresis characteristics of the liquid crystal, even if the applied voltage of 2 Vd V As is apparent from the above description, the display device using the liquid crystal composition of this invention can exhibit bistable behavior, or two stable optical states F and H under the application of the same voltage Vd. Therefore, we can optionally select one of these states with the application of the voltage Vd. In the above paragraphs, we referred to Figs. 2a and 2b, and explained the principle of driving the liquid crystal display device of this invention using two polarizing plates. However, alternatively, we can drive the liquid crystal display device without using the polarizing plate. This will be described hereinafter referring to Figs. 3a and 3b. As is illustrated in Figs. 3a and 3b, the liquid crystal 1 is sandwiched with two substrates 2 and 3 to form a liquid crystal display panel. A back surface of the display panel is provided with a black plate 7. The illustrated liquid crystal display panel, when it is converted to the F or F₀ state, is in a light state. This is because, as is shown in Fig. 3a, the incident radiation 6 is scattered or reflected upon irradiation on the liquid crystal 1 the scattered or reflected radiation is indicated with arrow 8 and therefore is not absorbed in the backing black plate 7. On the other hand, the liquid crystal display panel, when it is in the H or H state as in Fig. 3b, indicates a dark state, because the incident radiation 6 is passed through a layer of the liquid crystal 1 and is finally absorbed into the black plate 7. It is contemplated to use a lustrous black plate to increase the contrast between the light state and dark state. Hereinafter, this invention will be furthermore described with reference to some working examples. The following is a list of the liquid crystal compositions used in the examples, in which the compositions A, B, E, and G each is the composition within the scope of the present invention, and the compositions C₁, C₂, D, F, H and I each is a control composition. Two glass substrates with ITO indium oxide In₂O₃ coating were first washed with a detergent and then subsequently washed with isopropyl alcohol, acetone, and pure water. These substrates were then treated with oxygen plasma to improve their surface properties. There substrates were bonded through a spacer of 12 µm thick polyester film, commercially available from E. I. du Pont Co. under the trade name Mylar , and sealed with an epoxy adhesive to form a panel. The panel was filled with the above listed four liquid crystal compositions A, B, C₁ , and D. Four types of liquid crystal display panels P A present invention , P B present invention , P C₁ control , and P D control were produced. Each of the four liquid crystal display panels were tested to determine their voltage hysteresis width ΔV . First, a predetermined voltage Vd₁ was set, and the liquid crystal display panel was driven following the driving wave patterns shown in Figs. 4a and 4b. After writing, a variation of the light transmittance of the panel was recorded as time versus variation of the light transmittance. Similarly, the variation of the light transmittance of the panel was recorded under the application of the voltage Vd₂ , which is slightly higher than the previously set voltage Vd₁. Similar recordings were repeated except that the applied voltage was gradually increased in such a manner that Vd₃ Vd₄ , Vd₄ Vd₅ , ..., until a phase transition of from the cholesteric phase to nematic phase is caused. Therefore, a high voltage sufficient to maintain the nematic phase was applied to the panel, and then the applied voltage was gradually reduced. During reduction of the voltage, a variation of the light transmittance of the panel was repeatedly recorded as in the recording described above. The results of recording were plotted in a graph of time versus variation of the light transmittance. Based on the plotted graph of time versus variation of the light transmittance, another graph showing light transmittance determined at a certain time lapse after writing versus applied voltage was plotted. One of the plotted graphs is Fig. 5, which concerns the liquid crystal display panel P B of the present invention. The light transmittance determined using a photocell is in mV, and the applied voltage is in volts. The voltage hysteresis width ΔV of each of the liquid crystal display panels was evaluated from the graph of light transmittance versus applied voltage. In this evaluation, the writing time was 6 ms line, and the width was evaluated as 10 sec after writing. The results are summarized in the following Table I. The above results indicate that the display panels P A and P B produced using the liquid crystal compositions of this invention exhibit larger hysteresis widths and faster writing speed in comparison with the controls P C₁ and P D. The display panels of this invention are therefore compatible with scroll operation. In contrast, the prior art display panels are not adapted to the scroll operation in a large scale display, since they require a long writing time per each scanning line. Further, surprisingly, the display panels of this invention can maintain a satisfactory hysteresis width in spite of their shortened writing time, while, in the prior art panels, shortening of the writing time tends to narrow the hysteresis width. The procedure of Example 1 was repeated except that the liquid crystal compositions were replaced by the following five liquid crystal compositions E, G, H, and I. Liquid crystal display panels P E present invention , P G present invention , P H control , and P I control were produced. The results are summarized in the following Table II. It is evident from the above results that the display panels according to this invention exhibit satisfactory hysteresis widths and possible writing speed. The procedure of Example 1 was repeated except that, in this example, the liquid crystal composition C₁ was replaced with the liquid crystal composition C₂. Similar results were obtained. For further understanding of this invention, the results of the above Examples 1 to 3 are summarized in the following Table III.