# Triazolylacyloxy ethanes, fungicide containing the same as an active ingredient and method of controlling fungi using the same.

## Abstract
This invention relates to novel triazolylacyloxy ethanes represented by the following general formula

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. Triazolylacyloxy ethanes represented by the following general formula EMI50.1 where RÚ represents linear alkyl linear or branched alkenyl or linear or branched alkynyl R2 represents linear or branched alkyl optionally substituted with halogen linear or branched alkenyl cycloalkyl phenyl optionally substituted with lower alkyl or halogen or lower alkoxy. 2. The compound as defined in Claim 1, wherein R1 represents C1 C12 linear alkyl C2 C6 linear or branched alkenyl or C2 C6 linear or branched alkynyl and Rê represents C1 C12 linear or branched alkyl optionally substituted with fluorine, chlorine or bromine C2 C6 linear or branched alkenyl C3 C6 cycloalkyl phenyl optionally substituted with C1 C3 alkyl group, fluorine, chlorine or bromine or C1 C4 alkoxy. 3. The compound as defined in Claim 2, wherein R2 represents C1 C10 linear or branched alkyl optionally substituted with fluorine, chlorine or bromine or C2 C6 linear or branched alkenyl. 4. The compound as defined in Claim 2, wherein R1 represents C1 C10 linear alkyl C2 C5 linear or branched alkenyl or C2 C4 linear alkynyl and R2 represents C1 C10 linear or branched alkyl optionally substituted with fluorine, chlorine or bromine or C2 C6 linear or branched alkenyl. 5. The compound as defined in Claim 4, wherein R1 represents C1 C10 linear alkyl C3 C5 linear or branched alkenyl or propargyl and R2 represents C1 C10 linear or branched alkyl optionally substituted with fluorine, chlorine or bromine orC2 C3 alkenyl. 6. The compound as defined in Claim 5, wherein R2 represents C1 C8 linear alkyl optionally substituted with fluorine, chlorine or bromine. 7 The compound as defined in Claim 5, wherein RÚ represents C1 C8 linear alkyl and Rê represents C1 C8 linear alkyl optionally substituted with fluorine, chlorine or bromine. 8, The compound as defined in Claim 7, wherein R1 represents C1 C6 linear alkyl and R represents C1 C8 linear alkyl optionally substituted with chlorine or bromine. 9. The compound as dedined in Claim 8, wherein R1 represents C2 C4 linear alkyl and R2 represents C1 C6 linear alkyl optionally substituted with chlorine or bromine. 10. A fungicidal composition containing a triazolylacyloxy ethane. according to any of Claims 1 to 9 as the active ingredient. ii The fungicidal composition as defined inClaim 10 comprising from 0.1 to 80 by weight of triazolylacyloxy ethanes as the active ingredient and from 20 to 99.9 by weight of an inert other component. 12. A method of controlling fungi, wherein an effective amount of a triazolylacyloxy ethane according to any of Claims 1 to 9 is applied to plants or a habitat thereof.

## Description
TRIAZOLYLACYLOXY ETHANES, FUNGICIDE CONTAINING THE SAME AS AN ACTIVE INGREDIENT AND METHOD OF CONTROLLING FUNGI USING THE SAME This invention concerns triazolylacyloxy ethanes. More specifically it relates to novel 1 2,4 dichlorophenyl 1 acyloxy 2 lH 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl ethanes, a fungicide containing the above mentioned compounds as an active ingredient and a method of controlling fungi by using the same. It has been known so far that certain kind of triazolyl ethane compounds have fungicidal activities. For instance, US Patent No. 4315016 describes that the compound represented by the following general formula A has a fungicidal activity EMI1.1 wherein R3 is hydrogen, R4 is phenyl optionally substituted with one or two halogen, and R5 is alkyl having up to 5 carbon atoms, alkenyl having up to 5 carbon atoms, alkynyl having up to 5 carbon atoms or R5 is benzyl optionally ring substituted with halogen, alkyl or alkoxy, or a fungicidal acid salt of such a compound. Further, US Patent No. 4349556 describes that the compound represented by the following general formula B has fungicidal and nematicidal activities.EMI2.1 in whichR is halogen alkyl with 1 to 4 carbon atoms alkoxy with 1 or 2 carbon atoms alkylthio with 1 or 2 carbon atoms alkyl sulfonyl with 1 to 4 carbon atoms haloalkyl with up to 4 carbon atoms nitro cyano phenyl phenoxy or phenyl or phenoxy substituted by fluorine, chlorine, bromine, cyano, nitro or haloalkyl with 1 or 2 carbon atoms and up to 3 fluorine plus chlorine atoms R is alkyl with 1 to 6 carbon atoms alkenyl with 2 to 4 carbon atoms alkynyl with 2 to 4 carbon atoms cycloalkyl with 5 to 7 carbon atoms haloalkyl with 1 or 2 carbon atoms phenyl phenylalkyl or phenoxyalkyl each with 1 or 2 carbon atoms in the alkyl moiety such phenyl, phenylalkyl or phenoxyalkyl substituted on the phenyl by halogen, amino, cyano, nitro or alkyl with 1 or 2 carbon atoms amino alkylamino, dialkylamino or alkylalkyl carbonylamino with 1 or 2 carbon atoms in each alkyl moiety phenylamino or phenylamino substituted by halogen, nitro or cyano and n represents 0, 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5. Further, DE Patent 2556319 describes that the compound represented by the following general formula C has a fungicidal activity EMI3.1 in which R1is alkyl with 1 to 8 carbon atoms optionally substitute with 1 cr several halogen, alkoxy or cyano, alkenyl with 3 to 6 carbon atoms optionally substituted with halogen, alkynyl with 3 to 6 carbon atoms optionally substituted with halogen, or benzyl group of the general formulaEMI3.2 wherein m is o to 5, and R4 is alkyl with 1 to 4 carbon atoms R2 is hydrogen, alkyl with 1 to 5 carbon atoms, phenyl or cyclohexyl, n is 0 to 3, and R3is fluorine, chlorine, bromine with 1 to 3 carbon atoms. Furthermore, DE Patent No. 3233145 describes that the compound represented by the following general formula D has a fungicidal activity EMI4.1 in which R is alkyl, phenyl, trifluoromethyl, alkoxy or halogen m is 0, 1, 2 or 3 A is C X, CHY or CRêR whereX is O or NOR4, Y is OR5, OAcyl or OSi CH3 3 Rê is OH orOCH3 R3 is alkyl, alkyl, aryl or vinyl where R and R5 represent individually , alkyl, allyl, propargyl or alkyl. However, the fungicidal activities of these known triazolyl ethanes are not always satisfactory, and such activity may vary or even disappear depending on the presence or absence or the kind of substituents at 1 and 2 positions of ethane, for example, in the case of 1 phenyl 2 lH l,2,4 triazol 1 yl ethanes and it has been quite unknown what compounds have substantial fungicidal activity. The present inventors have made an earnest study on triazolyl ethanes and, in particular, triazolylacyloxy ethanes and, as a result, have found that the novel compounds according to this invention have an excellent fungicidal activity as compared with known fungicides. This invention provides triazolylacyloxy ethanes represented by the general formula I EMI5.1 wherein RÚ represents linear alkyl linear or branched alkenyl or linear or branched alkynyl R2 represents linear or branched alkyl optionally substituted with halogen linear or branched alkenyl cycloalkyl phenyl optionally substituted with lower alkyl or halogen or lower alkoxy group, as well as a fungicide containing the above mentioned compounds as an active ingredient and a method of controlling fungi by using the same. The triazolylacyloxy ethanes according to this invention are novel compounds represented by the general formula I as described above. In the general formula I , R1 represents linear alkyl linear or branched alkenyl or linear or branched alkynyl. Preferably, R1 represents linear alkyl with 1 to 12 carbon atoms such as methyl, ethyl, n butyl, n pentyl, n hetyl, n octyl, n nonyl, n decyl and n dodecyl linear or branched alkenyl with 2 to 6 carbon atoms such as allyl, methallyl, butenyl, isobutenyl and isopentenyl or linear or branched alkynyl with 2 to 6 carbon atoms such as propargyl and butynyl. More preferably, R1 represents linear alkyl with 1 to 10 carbon atoms linear or branched alkenyl with 2 to 5 carbon atoms or linear alkynyl with 2 to 4 carbon atoms. In view of the fungicidal activity, R1 preferably represents linear alkyl with 1 to 10 carbon atoms linear or branched alkenyl with 3 to 5 carbon atoms or propargyl and, more preferably, linear alkyl with 1 to 8 carbon atoms. While on the other hand, R2 in the general formula I represents linear or branched alkyl optionally substituted with halogen such as fluorine, chlorine, bromine and iodine linear or branched alkenyl cycloalkyl phenyl optionally substituted with lower alkyl or halogen such as fluorine, chlorine, bromine and iod ne or lower alkoxy.Preferably, R2 represents linear or branched alkyl with 1 to 12 carbon atoms optionally substituted with fluorine, chlorine or bromine such as methyl, ethyl, n propyl, n butyl, iso butyl, n pentyl, neopentyl, n hexyl, n octyl, n decyl, n dodecyl, iodomethyl, trifluoromethyl, u chlorooropyl, a, dichloro ethyl, ss,ss dichloroethyl, alpha chloro ss bromoethyl and a bromo n pentyl linear or branched alkenyls with 2 to 6 carbon atoms such as allyl, methallyl, butenyl, isobut nyl and isopent nyl cycloalkyl with 3 to 6 carbon atoms such as cyclopropyl, cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl phenyl optionally substituted with alkyl with 1 to 3 carbon atoms, fluorine, chlorine or bromine such as phenyl, 4 methylphenyl, 4 chlorophenyl and 2,4 dichlorophenyl or alkoxy with 1 to 4 carbon atoms such as methoxy, ethoxy and n propoxy. In the case where R2 is an alkyl substituted with fluorine, chlorine or bromine, the number of the substituents is 1,2 or more and preferably up to 5 and the substituents preferably occupy a, ss and or X position. In the case where there are two or more substituents, they may be identical or different with each other. Further, in the case where Rê is a phenyl substituted with alkyl, fluorine, chlorine or bromine, the number of the substituents is 1,2 or more and, preferably up to 3.In the case where there are two or more substituents, they maybe identical or different with each other. In view of the fungicidal activity, R2 represents preferably linear or branched alkyl with 1 to 10 carbon atoms optionally substituted with fluorine, chlorine or bromine or linear or branched alkenyl with 2 to 6 carbon atoms. More preferably, R2 represents linear or branched alkyl with 1 to 10 carbon atoms optionally substituted with fluorine, chlorine or bromine or al senyl with 2 or 3 carbon atoms and, further preferably, linear alkyl with 1 to 8 carbon atoms optionally substituted with fluorine or bromine.Ps the agricultural fungicide, preferred are those compounds represented by the general formula I in which R1 is linear alkyl with 1 to 6 carbon atoms and R2 is linear alkyl with 1 to 8 carbon atoms optionally substituted with chlorine or bromine, and most preferred are those compounds, in which R1 is linear alkyl with 2 to 4 carbon atoms and R2 is linear alkyl with 1 to 6 carbon atoms optionally substituted with chlorine or bromine. The compounds according to this invention represented by the general formula I described above are novel compounds and can be prepared, for instance, by reacting 2 substituted 2 lH 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 1 2,4 dichlorophenyl ethanol represented by the following general formula II and an acid anhydride represented by the following general formula III or an acid halide represented by the following general formula IV in the presence of a base EMI9.1 wherein R1 and R2 have the same meanings as defined in the general formula I , and X represents halogen such as chlorine or bromine. The above mentioned reaction may be carried out in the presence of an inorganic base such as potassium carbonate, sodium carbonate, sodium hydroxide and sodium hydride or an organic base such as pyridine or triethylamine, in an organic solvent such as tetrahydrofuran, benzene, toluene, dimethylformamide and dimethyl sulfoxide or the mixture of these solvents. If the acid anhydride III is used as the starting material or if the organic base as mentioned above is used as the base, the same anhydride or base may be used also as the solvent.The reaction temperature usually ranges from 200C to 120It, and a suitable temperature range is from 300C to 1000C in the case of using the acid anhydride III or from 5 C to 400C in the case of using the acid halide ivy respectively as the starting material. The reaction time is from 0.5 to 20 hours. The compounosaccording to this invention thus obtained contain two or more asymmetric carbon atoms and, accordingly, are generally obtained as a mixture of various isomers. In the case where the compounds are according to this invention used as a fungicide, the isomer mixture may be used as it is, or it can be used after being separated into each of the isomers by way of various known methods. The intermediate represented by the general formula II as described above can be prepared, for example, in accordance with descriptions in BritishPatent Nos. 1529818 and 1544028 by treating a substituted a lH l,2,4 triazol l yl acetophenone or l substituted 2 2,4 dichlorobenzoyl 2 1E 1,2t4 triazol 1 yl ethene with a reducing agent such as sodium borohydride. The compounds according to this invention obtained in this way have an excellent fungicidal have activity. Particularly, they an excellent protective effect against pathogenic fungi for various kinds of plants and is useful as the agricultural fungicide. In the case of using the compounds according to this invention as an agricultural fungicide, the are compounds may be used as they but, preferably, in the form of en.ulsi iable concentrate, wettable powder, dust, granule or the like by acting adjuvants in the conventional manner for the effective dispersion of the active ingredient in the application site. The adjuvants for use with the agricultural fungicide according to this invention can include solvent, carrier, wetting agent, dispersing agent, emulsifier, penetrating agent, which are used properly depending on the requirement. Suitable solvent can include, for example, water alcohols such as methanol, ethanol or ethylene glycol ketones such as acetone, methyl ethyl ketone or cyclohexanone ethers such as ethyl ether, dioxane or cellosolves aliphatic hydrocarbons such as kerosene, light oil or fuel oils aromatic hydrocarbons such as benzene, toluene, xylene, solvent naphtha or methyl naphthalene halogenated hydrocarbons such as dichloroethane, trichlorobenzene or carbon tetrachloride acid amides such as dimethylform amide esters such as ethyl acetate, butyl acetate or glycerine ester of fatty acid nitriles such as acetonitrile and they may be used alone or in admixture. Suitable carrier can include mineral powder, for example, clays such as kaolin or bentonite talcs such as talc or pyrohylite oxides such as diatomaceous earth or white carbons and plant powder such as soybean powder or CMC, which may be used alone or in amixture. Further, surface active agent may be used as the wetting agent, dispersing agent, emulsifier and penetrating agent. The surface active agent can include, for example, non ionic surfactant such as polyoxyethylenealkylaryl ether, polyoxyethylenesorbitan monolaurate, etc. cationic surfactant such as alkyldimethylbenzylammonium chloride, alkylpyridinium chloride, etc. anionic surfactant such as alkylbenzene sulfonate, lignin sulfonate or higher alcohol sulfate amphoteric surfactant such as alkyldimethylbetaine, dodecylaminoethyl glycine, etc. These surface active agents may be used alone or in admixture depending on the application uses. In the case where the agricultural fungicide according to this invention is used in the form of an emulsifiable concentrate, a formulated concentrate is prepared by mixing from 10 to 50 parts of the compound according to this invention, from 10 to 80 parts of a solvent and from 3 to 20 part of a surface active agent in an appropriate ratio, which is diluted with water to a prescribed concentration upon use. Further, in the case of use as a wettable powder, from 5 to 80 parts o t e compcur.d according to this invention are mixeo with from 10 to 90 parts of a carrier and from 1 to 20 parts of a surface active agent in an appropriate ratio and the mixture is diluted in the same manner as in the case of the emulsifiable concentrate with water or the like upon use. In the case of use as a dust, from 0.1 to 5 parts of the compound according to this invention are usually mixed uniformly with from 95 to 99.9 parts of a carrier such as kaolin, bentonite or talc for use. Further in the case of use as a granule, from 0.1 to 15 parts of the compound according to this invention are usually mixed with from 82 to 98 parts of a carrier such as bentonite, clay or talc and from 1 to 3 parts of a surface active agent in an appropriate ratio, which is then pelletized for use. The agricultural fungicide containing the compound according to this invention as the active ingredient usually contains from 0.1 to 80 by weight of the compound according to this invention and from 20 to 99.9 by weight of an inert other component irrespective of the mode of the application. Further, the agricultural fungicide according to this invention may be used in admixture with other active ingredient that will not hinder the fungicidal activity of the active ingredient, for example, ordinary fungicide, insecticide and acaricide. Referring to the method of application, the agricultural fungicide according to this invention may be suitably applied in either of the foliar application or submerged application. In the case of the foliar application, usually, a dust containing from 0.1 to 5 by weight of the active ingredient may be applied in an amount from 2 to 6 kg per 10 ares, or an emulsifiable concentrate or wettable powder diluted with water so as to contain from 10 to 1000 ppm of the active ingredient may be used in an amount from 10 to 500 liter per 10 ares. In the case of the submerged application, it may be applied in the form of granule containing from 0.1 to 15 by weight of the active ingredient in an amount from 2 to 6 kg per 10 ares. Any of the compounds according to this invention has an excellent fungicidal activity and has an intense fungicidal activity, particularly, as compared with known triazole compound, against wide variety of plant diseases, for example, rice blast, grey mold of various crops, various rust of wheat or barley, and powdery mildew of various crops. It has a particularly strong fungicidal activity to te rice blast ard powdery mild of wheat or barley and is useful as a ncn meaical fungicide, particularly, agricultural fungicide. Further, since the compound according to this invention is scarcely harmful to plants although it has a systemic activity to plants, and less toxic to men and beast or fishes, it is very useful for the control of plant diseases. Furthermore, the compounds according to this invention, when used to the rice patty field in the submerged application, have an effect of suppressing the growth of rice plant with no undesired effect for the yield and it is useful also as an antilodging agent. This invention will now be described more specifically referring to preparation examples of the compound according to this invention, formulation example. of the fungicides containing the above mentioned compound and protective test examples and growth suppressing test examples using the fungicide according to this invention. It should be noted that this invention is no way restricted to these specifically illustrated examples. In the specification hereinafter parts mean parts by weight . The chemical structures of the compounds according to tis invention synthesiz in the preparation examples are identified by elementary analysis, IR spectrum, NMR spectrum, etc. Preparation Example 1 Preparation of Intermediate l To 100 ml of methanol, were dissolved 7.6 g of alpha 1H 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 2,4 dichloropropiophenone, into which 1.3 g of sodium borohydride were added under ice cooling. After stirring at room temperature for three hours to complete the reaction, the solvent was distilled off under a reduced pressure. Ethyl acetate was added to the residue and, after washing with water, the solvent was removed by distillation. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluted with a chloroform ethyl acetate mixture to obtain 5.9 g of a diastereomer mixture of l 2,4 cichlorophenyl 2 lH 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl propan l ol compound No. 1 in Table 1 .In the similar manner, compounds No. 2, No. 3 and No. 6 shown in Table 1 were obtained.Preparation Example 2 Preparation of Intermediate 2 To 50 mS of anhydrous dimethylformamide, were dissolved 12.8 g of alpha 1H 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 2,4 dichloroacetophenone, into which 2.4 g of 50 sodium borohydride were added. After the completion of hydrogen generation, 6.05 g of allyl bromide were added dropwise at room temperature. Stirring was continued at that temperature for two hours to complete the reaction. After adding ethyl acetate to the reaction product and washing with water, the solvent was distilled off under a reduced pressure and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluted with a dichloromethane diethyl ether mixture to obtain 4.3 g of a allyl a lH 1,2,4 triazol l yl 2,4 dichloroacetophenone as an intermediate. The similar reaction as in the PreparationExample 1 was carried out except for using the thus obtained a allyl a lH l,2,4 triazol l yl 2,4 dichioro acetophenone instead of a lH 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 2,4 diochloropropiophenone, to obtain a diastereomer mixture of 1 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 lH 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4 penten l ol compound No. 4 in Table 1 . In the similar manner, compounds No. 5, No. 7,No. 8 and No. 10 shown in Table 1 were obtained.Preparation Example 3 Preparation of Intermediate 3 To 300 mQ of toluene, were added 20.5 g of a lH l,2,4 triazol 1 yl 2,4 dichloroacetophenone, 15.0 g of propionic aldehyde, 0.68 g of pyperazine and 0.96 g of acetic acid, and they were reacted for two hours under reflux while removing resulting water. After cooling, the reaction mixture was washed with water and the solvent was distilled off under a reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluted with a chloroform ethyl acetate mixture to obtain 20.1 g of l 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 lH 1,2,4 triazol l yl pent 2 en l on. 18.1 g of the obtained l 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 1E 1,2,4 triazol 2 yl pent 2 en 1 on were dissolved in 200 mQ of methanol, into which 4.6 g of sodium borohydride were added under ice cooling. After stirring at room temperature for three hours to complete the reaction, the solvent was distilled off under a reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluted with a chloroform ethyl acetate mixture to obtain 9.9 g of diastereomer mixture of 1 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 lH l,2,4 triazol l yl penthan l ol compound No. 3 in Table 1 . This was quite the same compound as the compound No. 3 obtained inPreparation Example 1. In the similar manner, the compound No. 9,No. 11 and No. 12 shown in Table 1 were obtained. Table 1EMI20.1 Compound 1 1 Melting point or No. R Isomer refractive index 1 CH3 M nD25 1.5669 2 C2H5 M mp 113 3.5 C 3 n C3H7 M nD25 1.5515 4 CH2 CHCH2 M nD25 1.5642 5 CH CCH2 M nD25 1.5508 6 n C4H9 M nD25 1.5484 7 CH3CH CHCH2 M nD25 1.5652 8 CH2 C CH3 CE2 M nD25 1.5630 9 n C5H11 M nD25 1.5393 10 CH3 2C CHCH2 M nD25 1.5670 11 n C7H15 M 25 1.5308 12 n C10H21 M nD25 1.5266 1 M indicates that the isomer is a diastereomer mixture. Preparation Example 4 A mixture of 2.72 g of the compound No. 1 inTable 1, 3.0 g of potassium carbonate and 20 mQ of anhydrous acetic acid was stirred at 600C for three hours. After cooling, ethyl acetate was added to the reaction mixture and, after washing with water, the solvent and the excess acetic anhydride were distilled off under a reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluted with a chloroform ethyl acetate mixture to obtain 2.6 g of diastereomer mixture of 1 2, 4 dichlorophenyl 1 acetyloxy 2 lH l,2,4 triazol l yl propane compound No. 13 inTable 2 . In the similar manner, the compounds No. 14,No. 41 and No. 44 shown in Table 2 were obtained.Preparation Example 5 Redaction and purification were carried out in the similar manner as in Preparation Example 4 excerpt for using 3.52 g of the compound No. 3 in Table 1 to obtain 1.22 g of the isomer A compound No. 30 in Table 2 and 2.40 g of the isomer B compound No. 31 in Table 2 of 1 2, 4 dichlorophenyl l acetyloxy 2 lH l, 2, 4 triazol l yl pentane. Preparation Example 6 To 20 mt of anhydrous dimethylformamide, 2.00 g of the compound No. 2 shown in Table 1 were dissolved, to which 0.50 g of 50 sodium hydride were added. After the completion of hydrogen generation, 0.97 g of propionic chloride were added dropwise. After the dropping was over, it was stirred at room temperature for two hours to.complete the reaction. After adding ethyl acetate and washing with water, the solvent was distilled off under a reduced pressure and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluted wit a chloroform ethyl acetate mixture to obtain 1.7 g of a diastereomer mixture of 1 2,4 dichlorophenyl 1 propionyloxy 2 1H l,2,4 triazol l yl butane compound No. 16 in Table 2 . In the similar manner, cor,coun s Nos. 15, 19, 20, 23, 24, 27, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 42, 43, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 52, 53, 5, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61 and 64 shown in Table 2 were obtained.Preparation Example 7 Using the compound No. 2 shown in Table 1 and benzoyl chloride, the reaction and purification were carried out in the similar manner as in PreparationExample 6 to obtain the isomer A compound No. 25 in Table 2 and the isomer B compound No. 26 in Table 2 of 1 2,4 dichlorophenyl 1 benzoyloxy 2 1H 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl butane. In the similar manner, the compounds Nos. 17, 18, 21, 22, 28, 29, 50, 56, 62, 63, 65, 66, 67 and 68 shown in Table 2 were obtained. Examples of the compounds according to this invention prepared in this way are shown in Table 2. Table 2EMI24.1 Compound R1 R2 No. isomer 13 CH3 CH3 M nD25 1.5413 14 C2H5 CH3 M mp 113 3.5 C 15 C2H5 CF3 M nD25 1.5008 16 C2H5 C2H5 M mp 72 17 C2H5 CH2 CH A mp 84.7 18 C2H5 CH2 CH B mp 127 19 C2H5 n C3H7 M nD 1.5272 20 C2H5 i C3H7 M semi solid 21 C2H5 cyc C3H5 A nD25 1.5374 22 C2H5 cyc C3H5 B mp 123 23 C2H5 n C5H11 M nD25 1.5209 24 C2H5 cyc C6H11 M nD25 1.5390 25 C2H5 Ph A mp 116 7 C Compound R1 R2 Isomer Physical property 26 C2H5 Ph B mp 153 3.5 27 C2H5 p Cl Ph M nD25 1.5617 28 C2H5 CH3O A nD25 1.5333 29 C2H5 CH3O B mp 98 9 30 n C3H7 CH3 A nD25 1.5304 31 n C3H7 CH3 B nD25 1.52 32 n C3H7 C2H5 M nD25 1.52 33 n C3H7 n C3H7 M nD25 1.53 34 n C3H7 i C3H7 M nD25 1.52 35 n C3H7 CH3CH CH M nD25 1.5433 36 n C3H7 ClCH2CH2CH2 M nD25 1.53 37 n C3H7 n C4H9 M nD25 1.52 38 n C3H7 n C5H11 M nD25 1.52 39 n C3H7 CH3 3CCH2 M 25 1.5192 40 n C3H7 n C6H13 M nD25 1.5175 41 CH2 CHCH2 CH3 M 25 1.5395 42 CH2 CHCH2 n C5H11 M nD25 1.5232 43 CH CCH2 n C5H11 M semi sol 44 n C4H9 CH3 M nD25 1.5287 45 n C4H9 C2H5 M nD25 1.5249 46 n C4H9 CH3CC12 M nD 1.5337 Compound PhysicalNo.RÚ Rê Isomer property 47 n C4H9 n C3H7 M nD25 1.5222 48 n C4H9 CH2 CHCH2 M amorphous 49 n C4H9 n C4H9 M nD25 1.5218 40 n C4H9 CH3 2CHCH2 A nD25 1.5212 51 n C4H9 CH3 2CHCH2 B mp 90.5 1.5 52 n C4H9 n C5H11 M nD25 1.5175 53 n C4H9 CH3 3CCH2 M semi solid 54 n C4H9 n C4H9CHBr M n 25 1.5293 55 n C4H9 n C6H13 M nD25 1.5167 56 n C4H9 cyc C6H11 M amorpho 57 n C4H9 n C8H17 M nD25 1.5125 58 n C4H9 n C10H21 M nD25 1.5072 59 n C4H9 p Cl Ph M mp 80 6 C 60 CH3CH CHCH2 n C5H11 M nD25 1.5253 61 CH2 C CH3 CH2 n C5H11 M nD25 1.5254 62 n C5H11 n C5H11 A nD25 1.5143 63 n C5H11 n C5H11 B nD25 1.5153 64 CH3 2C CHCH2 n C5H11 M nD25 1.5256 65 n C7H15 n C5H11 A nD25 1.4965 66 n C7H15 n C5H11 B nD25 1.5183 Compound Physical No.RÚ Rê Isomer property 67 n C10H21 n C5H11 A nD25 1.5009 68 n C10H21 n C5H11 B nD25 1.4984 M represents that the isomer is a diastereomer mixture, A and B indicate that the e diastereomer is separated into each of the isomers. Ph means phenyl group. Formulation Example 1 Compound No. 14 20 parts , diatomaceous earth 75 parts , and surface active agent mainly composed of alkylbenzene sulfonic acid 5 parts were uniformly pulverized and mixed to obtain a wettable powder.Formulation Example 2 Compound No. 14 40 parts , white carbon 10 parts , diatomaceous earth 47 parts Sorpol 5039 trade mark of Toho Kagaku Xogyo K.K. surface active agent mainly compose of polyoxyethylenealkylaryl ether sulfonate 3 parts were uniformly pulverized and mixed to obtain a wettable powder.Formulation Example 3 Compound No. 30 30 parts , Sorpol 3005X trace mark of Toho Kagaku Kogyo K.K. mixture of non ionic surface active agent and anionic surface active agent 15 parts , xylene 25 parts anc dimethyl formamide 30 parts were mixed and dissolved to obtain an emulsifiable concentrate.Formulation Example 4 Compound No. 52 2 parts and N,N kaolinite clay made by Tsuchiya Xaolin Co. 98 parts were mixed and pulverized to obtain a dust.Test Example 1 Test for protective effect against rice blast To rice seedlings at 3 4 leaf stage varietyNihonbare grown in each pot of 6 cm diameter, was applied a wettable powder containing the compound according to this invention shown in Table 3 as an active ingredient, that had been diluted with water to a predetermined concentration shown in Table 3, at a rate of 10 mZ per one pot through foliar application. After air drying the liquid chemical, spores of blast fungi CPyricularia oryzae cultured in an oat meal medium were spray inoculated to the test plants, which were kept in a humid chamber at 270C for 24 hours and then left in a water bath within a greenhouse for three days. The number of disease stigmata was counted to calculate the protective value 2according to the following equation.The results are shcwn in Table 3. number of disease stigmata per leaf in not treated lot number of lesions per leafProtective in treated lot x 100 value number of disease stigmata per leaf in not treated lot For making the usefulness of this invention more definite, similar tests were carried out by using known compounds most analogous to the compounds of the present invention as the comparative chemical and the results are also shown in Table 3. Table 3 Test result for the protective effect against rice blastEMI31.1 tb SEP Protective SEP value SEP tb Compound SEP Active SEP Active tb SEP No. SEP ingredient SEP ingredient tb SEP concentration SEP concentration tb SEP at SEP 200 SEP ppm SEP at SEP 100 SEP ppm tb SEP 13 SEP 100 SEP 72 tb SEP 14 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 15 SEP 94 SEP 88 tb SEP 16 SEP 100 SEP 98 tb SEP 17 SEP 94 SEP 93 tb SEP 18 SEP 95 SEP 95 tb SEP 23 SEP 99 SEP 78 tb SEP 29 SEP 100 SEP 76 tb SEP 30 SEP 92 SEP 0 tb SEP 31 SEP 100 SEP 86 tb SEP 32 SEP 100 SEP 91 tb SEP 33 SEP 100 SEP 93 tb SEP 34 SEP 100 SEP 82 tb SEP 35 SEP 98 SEP 97 tb SEP 36 SEP 98 SEP 85 tb SEP 37 SEP 99 SEP 88 tb EMI32.1 tb SEP Protective SEP value SEP SEP tb Compound SEP Active SEP Active tb SEP No. SEP ingredient SEP ingredient tb SEP concentration SEP concentration tb SEP at SEP 200 SEP ppm SEP at SEP 100 SEP ppm tb SEP 38 SEP 100 SEP 90 tb SEP 39 SEP 95 SEP 34 tb SEP 40 SEP 96 SEP 96 tb SEP 41 SEP 88 tb SEP 42 SEP 98 SEP 77 tb SEP 43 SEP 98 SEP 90 tb SEP 44 SEP 90 SEP 64 tb SEP 45 SEP 100 SEP 89 tb SEP 46 SEP 99 SEP 41 tb SEP 47 SEP 97 SEP 81 tb SEP 48 SEP 100 SEP 38 tb SEP 49 SEP 100 SEP 43 SEP tb SEP 50 SEP 100 SEP 59 tb SEP 51 SEP 90 SEP 42 tb SEP 52 SEP 100 SEP 91 tb SEP 53 SEP 94 SEP 39 tb SEP 54 SEP 94 SEP 24 tb SEP 55 SEP 100 SEP 0 tb SEP 57 SEP 98 SEP 0 tb EMI33.1 tb SEP Protective SEP value SEP tb Compound SEP Active SEP Active tb SEP No. SEP ingredient SEP ingredient tb SEP concentration SEP concentration tb SEP at SEP 200 SEP ppm SEP at SEP 100 SEP ppm tb SEP 60 SEP 100 SEP 51 tb SEP 61 SEP 100 SEP 80 tb SEP 63 SEP 97 SEP 58 tb SEP 64 SEP 96 SEP 61 tb Comparative SEP 1 tb chemical SEP 1 SEP 0 tb Comparative 2 SEP tb chemical SEP 2 SEP 0 tb Comparative SEP 39 tb chemical SEP 3 SEP SEP 39 SEP tb Comcarative SEP 86 SEP 12 SEP tb chemical SEP 4 SEP 86 SEP 12 tb 1 Comparative chemical 1EMI33.2 Compound racemic modification described inU.S. Patent No. 4349556. 2 Comparative chemical 2EMI34.1 Compound racemic modification described in U.S. Patent No. 4349556. 3 Comparative chemical 3EMI34.2 Compound racemic modification described in West German Patent Laid Open No. 2556319. 4 Comparative chemical 4EMI34.3 Compound described in West German PatentLaid Open No. 3233145. Test Example 2 Systemic activity test for rice blast After washing the roots of rice seedlings at 3 4 leaf stage variety Nihonbare grown in each pot of 6 cm diameter, the rice seedlings were transplanted in a hydroponic solution containing a wettable powder which contained the compound shown in Table 4 as the active ingredient and was prepared in the same manner as in TestExample 1 and diluted to a predetermined concentration shown in Table 4, and then left in a greenhouse for two days. After permeating the chemicals from the roots, spores of blast fungi Pyricularia oryzae cultivated in an oat meal medium were spray inoculated to the test plants. Then after keeping in a humid chamber at 270C for 24 hours, they were left in a greenhouse for three days and the protective value was calculated in the same manner as in Test Example 1. The results are shown in Table 4. Table 4 Results for the test of syste ic activity against rice blastEMI36.1 tb SEP Active tb Compound SEP ingredient SEP Protective tb SEP No. SEP concentration SEP value tb SEP ppm SEP SEP SEP tb SEP 13 SEP 5 SEP 92 tb SEP 14 SEP 5 SEP 100 tb SEP 15 SEP 5 SEP 100 tb SEP 16 SEP 5 SEP 98 tb SEP 18 SEP 5 SEP 85 tb SEP 29 SEP 5 SEP 91 tb SEP 31 SEP 5 SEP 100 tb SEP 38 SEP 5 SEP 100 tb SEP 45 SEP SEP 5 SEP 92 tb Test Example 3 Submerged application test against rice blast Rice seedlings variety Nihonba e were grown each by 7 hills per one pot made of synthetic resin of 11 cm diameter and the pot was put to submerged condition when the rice seedlings grew to 3 4 leaf stage.Then, the wettable powder containing the compound as shown in Table 5 as the active ingredient prepared in the same manner as in Test Example 1 was applied in a submerged manner by a predetermined amount shown inTable 5. 7 days after the application, spores of blast fungi Pyricularia orvzae cultivated in an oat meal medium were spray inoculated to the test plants. Then they were treated in the same manner as in Test Example 1 and the protective value was calculated. Further, the height of the rice plant was investigated seven days after the application and indicated in contrast with that in the non treated lot. The results are shown in Table 5. Table 5 Test results of the submerged application against rice blastEMI38.1 tb SEP Active SEP Protective SEP value SEP Growth 6 SEP tb Compound SEP ingredient SEP control tb SEP No. SEP amount SEP Inoculation SEP rate tb SEP kg ha SEP 7 SEP days SEP after SEP SEP SEP tb SEP application SEP tb SEP 14 SEP 1.2 SEP 90 SEP 87.0 tb SEP 31 SEP 1.2 SEP 88 SEP 88.7 tb SEP 32 SEP 1.2 SEP 92 SEP 84.1 tb SEP 33 SEP 1.2 SEP 85 SEP 90.6 tb SEP 34 SEP 1.2 SEP 92 SEP 87.1 tb SEP 35 SEP 1.2 SEP 86 SEP 90.8 tb SEP 37 SEP 1.2 SEP 98 SEP 85.1 tb SEP 38 SEP 1.2 SEP SEP 78 SEP 87.9 tb SEP 40 SEP 1.2 SEP 90 SEP 87.5 tb SEP 45 SEP 1.2 SEP 58 SEP 88.6 tb SEP 52 SEP 1.2 SEP 90 SEP 89.6 tb Compara tb tive SEP 1.2 SEP 43 tb chemical tb SEP 4 tb Compara tb tive SEP 2.4 SEP 75 SEP 94.6 SEP tb chemical SEP SEP 2.4 SEP 75 SEP 94.6 SEP tb 5 SEP 5 tb Not SEP SEP 100.0 tb treated tb 5 PropenazoleEMI39.1 6 Growth control hight of plant in treated lot rate hight of plant in non treated lot Test Example 4 Test for protective effect against cucumber grey mold To cucumber seedlings at cotyledon stage variety Chikanari suyo grown in each pot of 6 cm diameter, was applied the wettable powder containing the compound shown in Table 6 as the active ingredient which was prepared in the same manner as in Test Example 1 and diluted with water to a predetermined concentration shown in Table 6, at a ratio of 10 ml per one pot through foliar application. After air drying the liquid chemical, grey mold fungi Botrvtis cinerea cultured under shaking in an yeast glucose liquid medium were spray inoculated to the test plants. Then, after keeping the test plants for four days in a humid chamber at 230C, the state of the development of disease was investigatea. The method of investigation was according to the following procedures.The disease rate was determined by at first examining the ratio of the disease area in the investigated leaves, classifying into indexes of 0, 1, 3, 5 deending on the de ree of the ratio, investigating the number of leaves nO, nl, n3, n5 corresponding to each of the disease indexes and then calculating the disease ratio by the equation below n is the total number of leaves investigated . EMI41.1 tb Disease SEP index SEP Ratio SEP of SEP disease SEP area tb SEP 0 SEP none tb SEP 1 SEP about SEP 1 4 SEP of SEP the SEP entire SEP leaf SEP area tb SEP 3 SEP about SEP 1 4 SEP SEP 1 2 SEP of SEP the SEP entire SEP leaf SEP area tb SEP 5 SEP more SEP than SEP 1 2 SEP of SEP the SEP leaf SEP entire SEP area tb Disease ratio 0 x n0 1 x n1 3 x n3 5 n5 n The protective value was calculated by the following equation. disease ratio in the not treated lot disease ratio in the treated lot Protective x 100 value value disease ratio in the not treated lot The results are shown in Table 6. Table 6 Test results for the protective effect against cucumber grey moldEMI42.1 tb SEP Active tb Compound SEP ingredient SEP Protective tb SEP No. SEP concentration SEP value SEP t SEP tb SEP ppm tb SEP 19 SEP 500 SEP 90 tb SEP 32 SEP 500 SEP 100 tb SEP 33 SEP 500 SEP 100 tb SEP 34 SEP 500 SEP 100 tb SEP 44 SEP 500 SEP 88 tb SEP 48 SEP 500 SEP 91 tb SEP 49 SEP 500 SEP 90 tb SEP 60 SEP 500 SEP 88 tb Test Example 5 Test for protective effect against wheat brown rust To wheat seedlings at 1 2 leaf stage variety Norin 61 grown in each pot of 6 cm diameter, was applied the wettable powder containing the compound listed in Table 7 as the active ingredient which was prepared in the same manner as in Test Example 1 and diluted with water to a predetermined concentration shown in Table 7, at a rate of 10 m per one pot through foliar application. After air drying the liquid chemical, suspension of spores obtained by grinding wheat suffered from wheat brown rust fungi Puccinia recondita was spray inoculated to the test samples. Then, after keeping the test plants in a humid chamber at 220C for 15 hours, they were left in a water bath within a greenhouse for 7 days. The estimation was carried out by determining the ratio of the disease stigma area in each of the leaves and calculating the protective value according to the following equation. The results are shown in Table 7. average ratio of disease stigma area in not treated area average ratio of disease Protective stigma area in treated area Protective x 100 value average ratio of disease stigma area in not treated area Table 7 Test results for the protective effect against wheat brown rustEMI44.1 tb SEP Active tb Compound SEP ingredient SEP Protective tb SEP No. SEP concentration SEP value SEP tb SEP ppm tb SEP 13 SEP 206 SEP 87 tb SEP 15 SEP 200 SEP 97 tb SEP lye SEP 200 SEP 93 tb SEP 18 SEP 200 SEP 98 tb SEP 23 SEP 200 SEP 99 tb SEP 24 SEP 200 SEP 96 tb SEP 30 SEP 200 SEP 95 tb SEP 31 SEP 200 SEP 95 tb SEP 32 SEP 200 SEP 95 tb SEP 33 SEP 200 SEP 95 tb SEP 34 SEP 200 SEP 89 tb EMI45.1 tb SEP Active tb Compound SEP ingredient SEP Protective tb SEP No. SEP concentration SEP value SEP SEP tb SEP ppm tb SEP 36 SEP 200 SEP 96 tb SEP 38 SEP 200 SEP 98 tb SEP 39 SEP 200 SEP 92 tb SEP 40 SEP 200 SEP 86 tb SEP 44 SEP 200 SEP 96 tb SEP 45 SEP 200 SEP 98 tb SEP 46 SEP 200 SEP 98 tb SEP 47 SEP 200 SEP 98 tb SEP 49 SEP 200 SEP 98 tb SEP 50 SEP 200 SEP 96 tb SEP 52 SEP 200 SEP 96 tb SEP 55 SEP 200 SEP 97 tb SEP 57 SEP 200 SEP 84 tb SEP 60 SEP 200 SEP 94 tb SEP 61 SEP 200 SEP 98 tb SEP 62 SEP 200 SEP 91 tb Test Example 6 Test for protective effect against cucumber powdery mildew To cucumber seedlings at cotyledon stage variety Chikanari suyo grown in each pot of 6 cm diameter, was applied the wettable powder containing the compound shown in Table 8 as the active ingredient which was prepared in the same manner as in Test Example 1 and diluted with water to a predetermined concentration shown in Table 8, at a ratio of 10 mQ per pot through foliar application. After air drying the liquid chemical, suspension of stores obtained by grinding cucumber leaves suffered from cucumber powdery mildew fungi Sphaerotheca fulicinea was spray inoculated to the test plants and then they were left in a greenhouse from 7 to 10 days. The estimation was carried out by determining the ratio of disease area in each of cotyledons and calculating the protective value by the following esuc.icn. The results are shown in Table 8. average ratio of disease area in not treated area average ratio of disease area in treated area Protective x 100 value average ratio of disease area in not treated area Table 8 Test results for the protective effect against cucumber powdery mildewEMI47.1 tb SEP Protective SEP value SEP tb Compound SEP Active SEP Active tb SEP No. SEP ingredient SEP ingredient tb SEP concentration SEP concentration tb SEP at SEP 200 SEP ppm SEP at SEP 50 SEP ppm tb SEP 13 SEP 100 SEP 50 tb SEP 14 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 15 SEP 100 SEP SEP 90 tb SEP 16 SEP 100 SEP 97 tb SEP 17 SEP 100 SEP 10 tb SEP 18 SEP 100 SEP 33 tb SEP 19 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 20 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 21 SEP 100 SEP 99 tb SEP 22 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 23 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 24 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 25 SEP 100 SEP 90 tb SEP 26 SEP 100 SEP 88 tb SEP 27 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 28 SEP 100 SEP 0 tb SEP 29 SEP 100 SEP 75 tb EMI48.1 tb SEP Protective SEP value SEP tb Compound SEP Active SEP Active tb SEP No. SEP ingredient SEP ingredient tb SEP concentration SEP concentration tb SEP at SEP 200 SEP ppm SEP at SEP 50 SEP ppm tb SEP 30 SEP 100 SEP 57 tb SEP 31 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 32 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 33 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 34 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 35 SEP 100 SEP 93 tb SEP 36 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 37 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 38 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 39 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP tb SEP 40 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 41 SEP 100 SEP 87 tb SEP 42 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 43 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 44 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 45 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 46 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 47 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 48 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb EMI49.1 tb SEP Protective SEP value SEP tb Compound SEP Active SEP Active tb SEP No. SEP ingredient SEP ingredient tb SEP concentration SEP concentration tb SEP at SEP 200 SEP ppm SEP at SEP 50 SEP ppm tb SEP 49 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 50 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 51 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 52 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 53 SEP 100 SEP 91 tb SEP 54 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 55 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 56 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 57 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 58 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP tb SEP 59 SEP 100 SEP 98 tb SEP 60 SEP 100 SEP SEP 93 tb SEP 61 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 62 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 63 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 64 SEP 100 SEP 98 tb SEP 65 SEP 100 SEP 95 tb SEP 66 SEP 100 SEP 95 tb SEP 67 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 68 SEP 100 SEP 98 tb