# MAGNETORESISTANCE EFFECT TYPE MAGNETIC HEAD APPARATUS

## Claims
Magnetkopfeinrichtung mit Magnetowiderstandseffekt, enthaltend

## Description
The present invention relates to a magnetoresistance effect type magnetic head apparatus. A magnetoresistance effect type hereinafter referred to as MR magnetic head apparatus has a magnetic head element h as shown in Figure 12. On a magnetic substrate 1 of Ni Zn ferrite or MN Zn ferrite, or through an insulating layer 2 of SiO₂ or the like on the substrate 1 if it is conductive, a bias conductor 3 is applied which provides a bias magnetic field generated by current passing therethrough to supply a bias magnetic field to a sensing element 5 having the magnetoresistance effect hereinafter referred to as MR sensing element as described below. The bias conductor 3 may be formed by a band shaped conductive film extending in one direction. An MR sensing element 5 comprising a MR magnetic thin film of Ni Fe alloys or NI Co alloys is arranged over the bias conductor 3 on an insulation layer 4. A pair of magnetic layers 7 and 8 of Mo permalloy or the like as a magnetic core of a magnetic circuit are formed so that the magnetic layers 7 and 8 are positioned at each end over the MR sensing element 5 on a thin insulation layer 6, and extend across the bias conductor 3 and the MR sensing element 5. A protective substrate 10 is provided on the substrate 1 through a non magnetic insulation protective layer 9. A front magnetic gap g is formed between one magnetic layer 7 and the front end of the substrate 1 through a non magnetic gap spacer layer 11 comprising, for example, the insulation layer 6 having a required thickness. A front surface of the substrate 1, the gap spacer layer 11, the magnetic layer 7, the protective layer 9, and the protective substrate 10 are polished such that a surface 12 including the free end of the magnetic gap g faces a magnetic recording medium not shown . The rear end of the magnetic layer 7 which forms the magnetic gap g, and the front end of the other magnetic layer 8, are formed to ride on the MR sensing element 5 through the insulation layer 6, and both ends are spaced from each other by a discontinuous portion 13. The rear end of the magnetic layer 7 and the front end of the magnetic layer 8 are electrically insulated by interposition of the insulation layer 6 at both ends of the MR sensing element 5, but are magnetically connected. The discontinuity portion 13 between both magnetic layers 7 and 8 is magnetically connected by the MR sensing element 5, so that a magnetic circuit is formed in a closed magnetic path which, starting from the substrate 1, includes the magnetic gap g the magnetic layer 7 the MR sensing element 5 the magnetic layer 8 ending again with the substrate 1. In such a MR type magnetic head apparatus, a signal magnetic flux by a signal recorded on the magnetic recording medium flows from the magnetic gap g opposite the magnetic recording medium into the magnetic circuit. Thus a resistance value of the MR sensing element 5 in the magnetic circuit varies in response to the external magnetic field by the signal magnetic flux. Variation of the resistance value is detected as a voltage variation across the MR sensing element 5 and a sensing current i Figure 13 shows a magnetoresistance characteristic curve of the MR sensing element. It is clear that the magnetoresistance characteristic curve of the MR sensing element 5 becomes a parabolic curve in a certain range of the magnetic field. Consequently, the sensitivity characteristics show a maximum value at two values of the magnetic field as shown in Figure 14. A point of maximum sensitivity becomes also a point of good linearity. Consequently, in such a magnetic head, the bias magnetic field H In the MR type magnetic head apparatus as above described, a required bias magnetic field H In the MR magnetic head element having characteristics as described in Figure 13 and Figure 14, if the external magnetic field H In order to diminish the influence, it is known from document US A 3 969 769 to detect an external magnetic field independently of the data field by using a second magneto resistance element placed away from the data track so as to prevent reading of the data. Compensation of the external magnetic field effects is achieved by subtracting the signal produced by the external field as detected by the second magneto resistance element from the signal generated by the data field reading element. It is also known from document GB A 2 023 326 to use the signal obtained from the second magneto resistance element as a feed back current to a bias conductor element for the data field reading magneto resistance element. However, the idea of compensating the influence of the external fields as realized according to the said prior art documents does not provide for a sufficiently fast and complete counter balancing of the undesired external field effects. Accordingly, it is an object of the present invention to provide an MR type magnetic head apparatus in which a shift of the working point of the MR sensing element caused by an external magnetic field influence can be completely avoided even under varying temperature conditions, for example due to changing frictional conditions between the magnetic recording medium and the magnetic head device. According to the invention, a magneto resistance effect type magnetic head device comprised Advantageous details and improvements of the invention as defined above are the subject of dependent claims and will be explained below with reference to the accompanying drawings of which An MR type magnetic head apparatus, in a first embodiment of the invention, will now be described by referring to Figure 1. In the embodiment, a magnetic recording medium has a plurality of data tracks thereon, and a multi track magnetic head element unit 18 for reproducing data tracks is installed and formed of an arrangement of a plurality of MR magnetic head elements h to reproduce a signal magnetic field, i.e. a recording signal corresponding to the plurality of data tracks on the magnetic recording medium. Each magnetic head element h may be formed as already described with reference to Figure 12, but with common substrates 1 and 10. A bias conductor 3 for each element h of the magnetic head element unit 18 for reproducing data tracks formed by a band shaped conductive film extending and crossing all MR sensing elements 5 of all head elements h is provided on the substrate 1. In Figure 1, reference numeral 17 designates drive sources in general already described in Figure 15, including a current source to obtain sensing current i The external magnetic field detecting means 20 may be formed of a pair of additional MR magnetic head elements h Each of the additional sensing MR magnetic head elements h In this construction, when the external magnetic field H If a common external magnetic field H A part of the output from the differential amplifier 21 is introduced to the current driver 24, and a current obtained from the current driver 24 is supplied to the bias conductor 23 of the detecting means 20. Thus, an influence of the external magnetic field H Although a d.c. bias magnetic field is applied to each of the MR magnetic head elements h, h When a a.c. bias magnetic field or an a.c. bias magnetic field superimposed on the d.c. field is applied to the MR sensing element, a reduction of temperature dependence of the MR magnetic head element, an improvement of the linearity, and a decrease of the distortion results. This feature will be described in detail first. A design wherein the a.c. bias magnetic field or an a.c. field is superimposed on the d.c. field, and wherein these fields are applied to the MR sensing element, has been already proposed in the not prepublished document EP A 0 154 307. The influence on the working characteristics of the MR sensing element 5 will be considered again with reference to Figure 13. The prescribed bias magnetic field H In the MR type magnetic head apparatus, a potential at point A of Figure 15 is determined by a combination of a fixed component and a variable component of the resistance in the MR sensing elements 5, 25. Since the fixed component in this case is about 98 and is largely dependent on temperature, the temperature drift of the potential at point A becomes large. The resistance value R in the MR sensing element is represented by the following formula. Moreover, in such an MR type magnetic head element, since the temperature coefficient is large as described above, for example when heat generated by energizing the MR sensing element or by the bias current flowing through the bias conductors 3, 23 is radiated, or if the MR sensing element is transferred in an unstable condition such as by friction between the head element and the magnetic recording medium, the head temperature varies, and a large noise, a so called rubbing noise, may be produced. If the amplifier 14 in Fig. 15 has a low impedance input, assuming that the cut off frequency by the capacitor 16 is fo, the required capacitance C for the capacitor 16 becomes wherein ω The permeability in the magnetic circuit, particularly that in the magnetic layers 7 and 8 having a relatively small thickness and sectional area, is preferably as large as possible. Since the permeability becomes a maximum when the external magnetic field is zero, the application of the above mentioned bias magnetic field lowers the permeability. The above mentioned disadvantages can be eliminated or improved by the system as hereinafter described. As shown in Figure 2, a small a.c. bias current i In the magnetic head apparatus of such a construction, if the magnetic field signal magnetic field H In the magnetic head apparatus of the invention, since linear operation characteristics of the MR sensing element corresponding to the differential of the original operation characteristic curve are employed, a distortionless reproduction signal can be obtained. Even if the fixed component of resistance of the MR sensing element is largely dependent on temperature, the operation according to the differential of the operating characteristic curve of the MR sensing element in this construction can eliminate the influence of the temperature dependence of the fixed component and reduce the temperature drift significantly. Since the temperature dependence of the fixed component of resistance of the MR sensing element is eliminated as above described, noise influences caused by rubbing with the magnetic recording medium can be improved. Furthermore, since only the frequency fc has to pass the capacitor 16, if fc is 500 kHz for example, the capacitance C of the capacitor 16 may be C 1600 pF. If fc is further increased, the capacitance C may be further reduced. Figure 5 is a construction diagram of an MR type magnetic head apparatus a.c. bias, as a second embodiment of the invention. Parts in Figure 5 corresponding to Figure 2 are designated by the same reference numerals and the repeated description shall be omitted. In this case, a bias conductor 3, 23 is not supplied with a d.c. bias current, but rather with an a.c. bias current i In this case, the MR operation characteristic curve is a parabolic curve, and the resistance value R where ΔRmax Rmax Rmin. The magnetic field H applied to the MR sensing element is represented by the sum of the bias magnetic field H Next, the V t and a signal having the same phase and frequency as that of the a.c. bias magnetic field H Then the output Vz passes through a low pass filter 32, and the terms having an ω component in formula 10 are eliminated. It follows therefore that Consequently, the output voltage Vo t obtained at a terminal 15 becomes Thus, a voltage proportional to the signal magnetic field H According to the above construction, an output corresponding to the polarity of the external magnetic field can be obtained. In addition to the advantages similar to those in the embodiment of Figure 2, the circuit arrangement of Fig. 5 is advantageous since the dynamic range becomes large. Furthermore, in this case if the magnetic bias is an a.c. component only, a decrease of permeability of the magnetic circuit caused by the d.c. bias can be avoided. Figure 7 shows an embodiment of the invention wherein the a.c. bias system described with reference to Figure 5 is adopted as an external magnetic field detecting means 20. In this case, the differential connection of a pair of MR magnetic head elements as shown in Figure 1 is not adopted as the MR magnetic head element for detecting the external magnetic field. Rather, only one MR magnetic head element hs is employed. Parts in Figure 7 corresponding to that in Figure 1 and Figure 2 are designated by the same reference numerals, and a redundant description shall be omitted. In Figure 7, a differential amplifier 70 is installed at the output side of the external magnetic field detecting means 20, and is set so that a required bias current i In the embodiment of Figure 7, an output from the differential amplifier 70 is fed back to the magnetic head element hs for detecting the external magnetic field. However, if the differential amplifier 70 is provided in itself with a gain adjusting means 76 based on its own output as shown in Figure 8, the feedback path for the head element hs may be omitted. Parts in Figure 8 corresponding to that in Figure 7 are designated by the same reference numerals. Figure 9 shows still another embodiment of the invention. Parts in Figure 9 corresponding to that in Figure 7 are designated by the same reference numerals. In this case the magnetic head element hs for detecting the external magnetic field of an external magnetic field detecting means 20, in addition to a bias conductor 23a for applying an a.c. bias magnetic field to an MR sensing element 25, a bias conductor 23b extending from a bias conductor 3 in a magnetic head element h for reproducing data tracks is provided. Thus, the bias variation to the MR sensing element 25 caused by the external field H In the magnetic head element hs for detecting the external magnetic field, in this case, the bias conductors 23a and 23b are arranged across the MR sensing element 25 and the magnetic layer 8 to construct the magnetic circuit for the head element hs as shown in Figure 10. Parts in Figure 10 corresponding to that in Figure 12 are designated by the same reference numerals. Figure 11 is a diagram illustrating the construction of another embodiment of the invention. In this embodiment, an a.c. bias magnetic field is applied also to an MR magnetic head element h of each track of a magnetic head element unit 18 for reproducing data tracks. Parts in Figure 11 corresponding to that in Figure 7 are designated by the same reference numerals. In Figure 11, numeral 77 designates an output circuit corresponding to each of the MR magnetic head elements h and hs. A bias conductor 23 of the magnetic head element hs for detecting the external field extends from a bias conductor 3 of the magnetic head element unit 18 for reproducing data tracks, and both are connected electrically in common. The reproduction signal may be an audio video data signal in an analog digital system. According to the present invention as above described, the external magnetic field detecting means 20 is installed near the magnetic head element 18 for reproducing data tracks at substantially the same condition as that of the magnetic head element 18 so as to receive the unrequired external magnetic field H