# INTEGRATED OPTICAL AND ELECTRIC CIRCUIT DEVICE

## Claims
Integrierte optoelektrische Schaltungsanordnung, umfassend

## Description
The present invention relates to an integrated optical and electrical circuit device in which optical devices and electric devices are integrated on a semiconductor substrate. Known optical and electrical devices include those described in U.S. Patent No. 3,914,137 and in U.S. Patent No. 3,879,606. Such devices are intended to obviate problems such as signal delay due to an increase in the length of electrical interconnections, short circuits and or capacitances between metallisation layers due to metallised connections of different sets of components crossing over each other or passing very close, and an increase in designing and manufacturing costs due to interconnection complications. However, the degree of integration of a semiconductor integrated circuit has increased enormously since then and memories having a few megabits on a chip of a few square millimeters have been developed recently. In integrated digital circuits, a clock signal is sometimes the most fundamental signal in operation. Although it is necessary in a chip to simultaneously distribute the clock signal common signal of a system to logic circuit unit, the ratio of the area required for the interconnection of the clock signal in the chip to the area of the other circuit interconnection becomes large, causing an obstacle to realise a very high density integration. It is an object of the present invention to provide an improved semiconductor integrated circuit device suitable for high density packing. Another object of the invention is to provide a semiconductor integrated circuit device which is arranged so as to reduce the signal delay and the length of interconnections. Still another object of the invention is to provide a semiconductor integrated circuit device in which metal interconnections to supply a common signal to circuit units are unnecessary. An integrated optical and electric circuit device of the present invention comprises a semiconductor integrated circuit substrate in which a plurality of circuit units are integrated near a major surface of the substrate, the substrate having a property which allows light to be transmitted therethrough and the circuit units being arranged to receive a common signal at least one semiconductor light emitting device formed in the semiconductor integrated circuit substrate, which is activated by a common signal source to emit light passing through the semiconductor substrate and semiconductor light detecting devices which are respectively coupled to the circuit units and are formed in the semiconductor integrated circuit substrate, each light detecting device setting the corresponding circuit unit into a common signal receiving state in response to the light from the semiconductor light emitting device. Therefore, according to the present invention, by integrating optical devices in an integrated circuit substrate integrally with circuit units, the common signal of the circuit units such as clock pulses can be essentially at the same time distributed to the whole chip by means of optical transmission without using any particular electrical interconnection. Since the interconnection for the distribution of the common signal is unnecessary, a degree of freedom in designing an integrated circuit increases and the pattern layout is made extremely easy. This invention can be more fully understood from the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which Referring now to Fig. 1, there is shown a semiconductor integrated circuit device according to one embodiment of the present invention which is adapted for the optical distribution of a clock signal serving as a common signal for logic circuit units. According to this device, for instance, a plurality of logic circuit units 2 which are made operative in response to the clock signal are integrated on a gallium arsenide GaAs semiconductor substrate 1 and a semiconductor light emitting device 3 is formed substantially in the central portion of the substrate. Although only one light emitting device is shown, a plurality of light emitting devices may be formed. Each logic circuit unit has a semiconductor light detecting device coupled to one or more FETs to perform a logic function. The semiconductor light emitting device 3 is powered by a clock signal source to emit light and a light clock signal is commonly applied to the logic circuit units 2 through the GaAs substrate 1 which permits light to pass therethrough. The light detecting devices coupled to the respective logic circuit units are switched to on and off in response to the light clock signal. According to this arrangement, the light detecting devices of the logic circuit units are activated by the light clock signal, so that each logic circuit unit operates in a similar manner to a case where an electrical clock signal is applied. Fig. 2 schematically shows a semiconductor integrated circuit device according to a first embodiment of the present invention in which a light emitting diode LED of double heterojunction structure, a photo diode of PIN structure and transistors FETs constituting logic circuits are monolithically formed on a substrate. In this embodiment, a P type GaAs substrate 11 is used as an integrated circuit substrate. A light emitting diode 10 of a double heterojunction structure consisting of GaAs and GaAℓAs is formed on the substrate 11. More specifically, a first cladding layer 12 consisting of P type GaAℓAs, an active layer 13 consisting of P type GaAs and a second cladding layer 14 consisting of N type GaAℓAs are sequentially formed on the substrate 11. The active layer 13 may be P type GaAℓAs doped with a restricted quantity of Aℓ. It is desired that the LED 10 be of an internal confinement type to raise the light emitting efficiency. Therefore, a confinement layer 15 consisting of P type GaAℓAs having a confining area 15a in the second cladding layer 14 is formed. A diode current concentrically flows through the confining area 15a of the confinement layer 15, so that a portion of the active layer 14 just under the confining area 15a is activated to emit light. An upper layer 16 consisting of I intrinsic type GaAs is formed on the second cladding layer 14 and is used as a substrate for FETs of logic circuit units. A photo diode 17 of the PIN structure has a P region 18, acting as its anode, formed in the upper layer portion 16 adjacent to its major surface by the diffusion of impurities or ion implantation technology. To raise light detecting efficiency, the P region 18 is deeply formed in the upper layer 16. Source and drain regions of the FETs of the circuit units are relatively shallowly formed adjacent to the major surface of the upper layer portion 16 using the ion implantation technology. In the Figure, reference numerals 20, 21 and 22 denote a source region, a drain region and a channel region of the first stage FET 19 of a circuit unit. The source region 20 and drain region 21 are respectively coupled to a source electrode 23 and a drain electrode 24 formed on the major surface of the upper layer 16. A gate electrode 25 is formed on the channel region 22 between the source region 20 and the drain region 21 and is coupled to the P region 18 of the photo diode 17. An electrode layer 26 serving as an anode electrode of the LED 10 is formed on the lower surface of the substrate 11. An electrode layer 27 serving as a cathode electrode of the LED 10 and the photo diode 17 is formed on the second cladding layer 14 as shown. In the arrangement shown, the LED 10 is formed substantially at the central portion of a plane of the integrated circuit chip and the P region 18 of the photo diode 17 is deeply formed. Therefore, the photo diode 17 can efficiently respond to the light signal at any location where a light input is required. When the I type GaAs layer 16 has a thickness of a few micrometers, light emitted from the LED 10 is almost absorbed by this layer, so that the light will not reach the FET of the logic circuit unit. Fig. 3 shows an equivalent circuit of the arrangement in Fig. 2. In the Figure, the parts and components corresponding to those in Fig. 2 are designated by the same reference numerals. The electrode layer 27 may be adapted for connection to ground or reference potential source. In the case of a digital integrated circuit, the LED 10 is driven by a clock signal source 28 to emit a light clock signal. The photo diode 17 of each logic circuit unit is switched on and off in response to the light clock signal. Thus, the logic circuit units can desirably operate in response to the light clock signal. An example of thicknesses of the respective layers in Fig. 2 will be mentioned below. The first cladding layer 12 is about 3 µm. The active layer 13 is about 1 µm. The second cladding layer 14 is about 10 µm. The narrow hole layer 15 is about 2 µm. And the upper layer 16 is about 5 µm. Fig. 4 shows another embodiment of the invention in which a photo conductor which can be easily manufactured is used as a light detecting device. In Fig. 4, the same parts and components as those shown in Fig. 2 are designated by the same reference numerals and their descriptions are omitted. In this embodiment, the layer on the second cladding layer 14 has a double layered structure consisting of an I type GaAs layer 16a and an I type GaAℓAs layer 16b. Each region of the FETs of the respective logic circuits is formed in the I type GaAs layer 16a as in the foregoing embodiment. A photo conductor 17a is simply formed by arranging electrode layers 31 and 32 along a concave portion 30 formed in the I type GaAs layer 16a as shown. The concave portion 30 is formed deeper than the source and drain regions of the FET. The electrode 31 of the photo conductor 17a is coupled to the gate electrode 25 of the first stage FET 19. The other electrode 32 is connected to a power source together with the FETs. When light is received from the LED 10, the resistance of the I type GaAs layer 16a decreases, so that the resistance between the electrodes 31 and 32 of the photo conductor 17a is reduced, causing a signal to flow through the gate electrode 25 of the FET 19. In general, the potential of the photo conductor 17a at the I type GaAs layer 16a and the potential of the second cladding layer 14 differ from each other. The I type GaAℓAs layer 16b is provided to isolate the photo conductor 17a from the second cladding layer 14. In the case where the isolation of the I type GaAℓAs layer 16b is insufficient, a P type GaAℓAs layer may be provided between the layer 16b and the second cladding layer 14 as necessary. For example, the I type GaAs layer 16a has a thickness of about 5 µm and the I type GaAℓAs layer 16b has a thickness of about 5 µm. As described above, the I type GaAs layer 16a is relatively thick and also the photo conductor 17a is hollow, so that the photo conductor can efficiently respond to the light and the FETs of the logic circuit units are not essentially influenced by light. Fig. 5 shows an equivalent circuit of the arrangement in Fig. 4. As will be apparent from this circuit, in this embodiment, the LED 10 and circuit unit 2 have not a common point in terms of the potential. In the foregoing embodiments, the LED is used as a light emitting device. However, the response speed of LEDs is usually about 100 MHz excluding an extremely high speed device in which an output power is ignored. Therefore, the LED is acceptable when considering that system clocks of recent microcomputers or office computers are below 10 MHz. When a higher speed light clock is demanded, a semiconductor laser can be used. Another embodiment of the invention will now be described with reference to Fig 6. This embodiment is applied to an IC video selector used in a subscriber s television system. In this video selector, a plurality of semiconductor light emitting devices 40, 41 and 42, a plurality of semiconductor light detecting devices 43, 44 and 45, and video selecting circuit units 46, 47 and 48 coupled to the corresponding semiconductor light detecting devices are monolithically formed on a semiconductor substrate. The semiconductor light emitting devices 40, 41, and 42 are respectively driven by carrier signals having frequencies of f₁, f₂ and f₃ and carrying video signals. Light video signals generated from the semiconductor light emitting devices are commonly received by each of the semiconductor light detecting devices 43, 44 and 45. The common signal in this embodiment is a video signal, particularly, video superposed signals from which a desired one is selected. The video selecting circuits 46, 47 and 48 comprise video selecting devices 46a, 47a and 48a and amplifiers or demodulators 46b, 47b and 48b, respectively. Each of the video selecting devices 46a, 47a and 48a receives a channel selection signal from a subscriber and selects a desired video signal from the video superposed signals from the corresponding semiconductor light detecting device. In the integrated circuit devices of the invention described above, the GaAs system is used as substrate material. Alternatively, the InP system may be used. The common signal may be a digital signal or an analog signal.