# TREATED NON WOVEN MATERIAL

## Claims
Gegenstand, bei welchem es sich um eine Einmalwindel, eine hygienische Einmaldamenbinde oder ein Einmalinkontinenzkissen handelt und welcher aus einem nichtgewebten Stoffmaterial besteht, das mit einem linearen polymeren Biguanid, in welchem die Wiederholungseinheit die Formel

## Description
This specification describes a treated non woven material which is resistant to the activity of microbial species, especially bacteria, and a process for the preparation of such material. It is well known that the generation of noxious malodours, especially the more pungent ammoniacal odours in disposable nappies and the like is caused by the action of micro organisms on the retained body fluids. This microbiological activity can also result in various skin rashes. Several attempts have been made to control such odours by treating the disposable nappy with a biocide for example chlorhexidine as described in UK 1443086 and a quaternary ammonium compound as described in American Dyestuff Reporter, June 1984, pages 35 to 45. None, however, have found commercial acceptance. It is also known to apply polymeric biguanides to the non woven materials to be used as wipes for transferring the biocide to a solid surface to be disinfected. Such methods have been described, for example, in US 4311479 and EP 99209. These materials, however, are not designed to retain the biocide and are consequently not adapted to prevent microbiological activity within the non woven material. It has now been found that polymeric biguanides can be absorbed onto the non woven materials commonly used in the manufacture of disposable nappies and the like, and that such treated material inhibits the growth of those micro organisms which give rise to the afore mentioned malodours and skin rashes. Thus, according to the present invention there is provided an article which is a disposable nappy, a disposable feminine hygiene pad or an incontinence pad, and which is formed from a non woven material treated with a linear polymeric biguanide in which the recurring unit is of the formula wherein X and Y, which may be the same or different, represent bridging groups in which the total number of carbon atoms in X and Y taken together, directly interposed between the pairs of nitrogen atoms linked thereby, is from 10 to 16, or the salt thereof with an acid. The bridging groups X and Y, which may be the same or different, preferably comprise polymethylene chains, optionally interrupted by oxygen, nitrogen or sulphur atoms and may incorporate saturated or unsaturated cyclic groups. When the groups X and Y incorporate cyclic groups, the number of carbon atoms directly interposed between pairs of nitrogen atoms include the carbon atoms in the shortest segment of the cyclic group. In a preferred polymeric biguanide, X and Y are both polymethylene groups containing from 3 to 12 carbon atoms and more preferably X and Y are both hexamethylene. The polymeric biguanide preferably has a molecular weight in the range 500 to 20,000 and contains from 5 to 12 biguanide units. Especially preferred is a mixture of polymeric biguanides of the formula The polymeric biguanide has broad spectrum of activity, at very low levels, against bacteria, fungi and yeasts, particularly those associated with the human body. Furthermore, it harmless to macrobiotic systems and, in particular, is not a skin sensitiser. It will, therefore, not give rise to problems when applied to articles which will be in direct contact with the skin for extended periods The article is suitable for the collection of human body emissions, generally fluid emissions, such as urine, and excreta, which are susceptible to bacterial degradation. When such emissions are in contact with bacteria for an extended period, the bacteria can cause changes in the emissions, and chemical substances therein, which can have deleterious effects on the environment, i.e. the body with which the non woven material is in contact or the surrounding atmosphere. Thus, when disposable nappies become contaminated with urine bacteria present in the anal region effect chemical reactions in the urine which raise the pH and lead to the formation of malodorous chemicals one product of bacterial activity in urine is the formation of ammonia. Extended contact of the degradation products with the skin can lead to nappy rash and general discomfort to the wearer. Various attempts have been made to control odours and nappy rashes by incorporating a biocide into disposable nappies e.g. DC 5700, American Dyestuff Reporter, June 1984, p.35 45, and chlorhexidine as described in UK 1443086, 23.2.73. assigned to Proctor Gamble but none have found commercial acceptance. It has now been found that non woven materials treated with the polymeric biguanide are particularly suitable for use in the preparation of such articles because of the significant inhibition of bacterial activity when the article becomes contaminated with body emissions. In addition to protection against bacterial activity in the body emissions absorbed on the material, the polymeric biguanide will also provide protection of the non woven material itself against bacterial action during storage prior to use. The non woven material preferably contains from 100 ppm up to 100,000 ppm, and more preferably from 500 ppm up to 5000 ppm, of the polymeric biguanide. The non women material may be treated with the polymeric biguanide during the preparation of the material by, so example, soaking the consitutent fibres in a solution of the polymeric biguanide or spraying the material after formation with a solution thereof. As the polymeric biguanide is readily soluble in water an aqueous solution may be used. The polymeric biguanide has a strong affinity for cellulosic, and related synthetic, materials which are conventionally used for the preparation of the present articles, and it is very efficiently taken up by such materials from an aqueous solution. The polymeric biguanide, in the form of its hydrochloride salt, is extremely soluble in water and aqueous solutions thereof are substantially non foaming. Since, the absorbent wadding or cellulosic material of the present articles is the major structural component responsible for absorbing body fluids such as urine, this is the most logical place to locate the bioactive compound. In order that additional drying costs are avoided, such application should preferably take place from aqueous media during pre existing wet processing stages during manufacture. In order to ensure uniform uptake of the biocide, such processes involve high speed agitation of the cellulose fibres in aqueous dispersion. In such a process, the water soluble polymeric biguanide is particularly well suited since it is substantially non foaming. In this respect it is superior to the chlorhexidine cited in UK 1443086 which foams to a greater extent and also produces a more stable foam. Furthermore, the use of ethanolic solutions of chlorhexidine disclosed and exemplified in UK 1443086 constitute an unacceptable industrial hazard compared with the use of aqueous solutions of the polymeric biguanide. Additionally, chlorhexidine must be protected from light which is not required in the case of the polymeric biguanide, and application of the latter to the appropriate support media leads to no discolouration. When chlorhexidine and the polymeric biguanide are applied to cellulosic substrates, they exhibit similar activity to bacteria such as Quaternary ammonium compounds have also been proposed for use in disposable non woven materials to suppress odours and control micro organisms. Generally, they suffer from pronounced foaming deficiencies and lack of substantivity leading to problems during application. They are also not particularly effective in controlling micro organisms in this particular application. This is especially true in the case of the reactive silicon based quaternary ammonium compound, commercially available as DC 5700 from Dow Corning which has recently been recommended for such outlets cf. American Dyestuffs Reporter, June 1984, p.35 45 . Various techniques have been proposed in the past for assessing body odours, and most have resorted to nasal assessment using panels of experts, e.g. odour control in mens socks using DC 5700 ref A new durable Antimicrobial Finish for Textiles , R.L.Getting and B.L.Triplett, paper presented at the AATCC National Conference 1978, and more recently the use of polymeric biguanides in deodorant formulations claimed in US 4478821 assigned to Gillette. These methods are not particularly sophisticated. In the American Dyestuff Reporter, June 1984, p.35 45, odour assessment based on the ureolytic activity of 0.5ml nutrient broth into which individual micro organisms had been repeatedly subcultured containing approximately 10⁸ cfu ml was added to 9.5ml synthetic urine devoid of ammonium ion. 1ml of this inoculated urine was entered into a sterile closed vial and incubated at 36 C. The ammonia generated was determined after 6 hours and 24 hours by dilution with 9ml 0.02N hydrochloric acid followed by millipore filtration, and the ammonium ion content determined by column chromatography using a Dionex chromatographic analyser. The ammonia content found in the samples is listed below in ppm . The invention is further illustrated by the following Examples in which all parts and percentages are by weight unless otherwise indicated. The absorbent wadding material was stripped from an adult incontinence pad and 2.5 parts dispersed in 200 parts water by rapid agitation. Sufficient quantities of a 20 aqueous solution of a mixture of polyhexamethylene biguanide dihydrochlorides PHMB , having number average molecular weights from 1300 2200, were added, at neutral pH, to separate samples of the absorbent wadding, to give 100, 500, 1000 and 3000 ppm of PHMB on the substrate. The PHMB was completely adsorbed. A control sample contained no PHMB but was otherwise treated as the test samples. Each sample was then cast into a paper sheet measuring approximately 7 x 5 , and dried on a steam heated calender drum. Two 1 squares of each sheet were placed in a sterile petri dish and wetted with 1 part synthetic urine pH 6.6 . The wetted sheet was then inoculated with the gram negative, ureolytic bacterium, When the Absorbent paper exhibiting similar grammage ca 100gm m² to the sheets cast from wadding material described in Example 1 was passed through aqueous solutions of PHMB at various concentrations, squeezed and dried on a hot calender drum to give the following concentrations of PHMB on the absorbent papers cf. table below . 0.5g of the above papers were entered into a sterile closed vial and impregnated with 1ml inoculated synthetic urine prepared by adding 0.5ml broth culture of Absorbent papers containing 1000 ppm PHMB prepared as above were challenged with various micro organisms including a cocktail prepared by mixing equal parts of all eleven organisms. Incubation and analysis was carried out as described in Example 3 and gave the following results. Example 4 was repeated except that the 0.5g substrate was impregnated with 1.66ml inoculated urine in place of the 1ml used in Example 3, giving the following results. 10g wadding was stripped from a commercially available disposable nappy and dispersed in 800ml water by rapid agitation. An aqueous solution of PHMB was added to give 1000 ppm and 1500 ppm PHMB on weight of substrate. The PHMB was rapidly and completely absorbed. Water was removed from the treated wadding by filtration and rotary evaporation, and the wadding fluffed by high speed air agitation. The wadding so obtained exhibited no discolouration, with excellent absorbency. 0.5g samples of the treated wadding was entered into a closed sterile vial and impregnated with 1ml inoculated synthetic urine, and analysed as in the foregoing examples to give the following results. Ammonia content expressed in ppm. In the above example, as in the foregoing examples, the untreated substrate when contacted with urine containing a micro organism rapidly acquired an objectional urinal odour which becomes increasingly noticeable after 8 hours incubation. This is especially true when challenged with the cocktail of micro organisms. The treated substrate containing PHMB remains completely free from such odours even after 24 hours and exhibits the freshness of damp domestic washing. The absorbent paper containing 1000 ppm PHMB, following challenge with Absorbent papers grammage 102gm m² were impregnated with PHMB and chlorhexidine by padding through the appropriate aqueous concentration of the bio active compound, squeezing between mangles to give 120 liquor retention and dried on a heated calender drum. The aqueous solutions of biocide were calculated to give 1000 ppm of PHMB and chlorhexidine on the support. 0.5g support were folded and placed in a sealed sterile vial, and challenged with 1ml synthetic urine made by adding 0.5ml overnight broth culture of Papers were prepared by taking wadding material stripped from a commercially available disposable nappy 2.5g and dispersing in 200ml water by rapid agitation. 5.0ml of 0.05 aqueous solution of PHMB and chlorhexidine were added respectively, stirred for a further 5 minutes, and the treated pulp cast into a hand sheet by discharging onto a wire screen, pressing to express surplus water and drying on a hot calender drum. 0.5g of the paper 90g m² so obtained were treated as in Example 8 to give the following results. Absorbent paper ca. 100g m² was impregnated by padding and squeezing to give the following uptake of bio active compound as listed below. 0.5g of the treated papers were challenged with 1ml synthetic urine containing A disposable nappy was sprayed with an aqueous solution of PHMB such as to produce a loading of 1000 ppm PHMB relative to the weight of wadding. After drying, a 0.5g sample comprising fluffed wadding and cover stock material was evaluated in a similar manner to that described in Example 4. When challenged with A commercially available incontinence pad whose construction comprised a plastic backing, coverstock and creped paper as absorbent medium was impregnated with PHMB by padding through an aqueous solution of the biocide followed by squeezing and drying on a hot calender. The biocide retained was 1000 ppm PHMB. 0.5g of this material was treated as described in Example 4, and gave similar results.