# PHOTOGRAPHIC TANNING DEVELOPER FORMULATION

## Claims
Gerbentwicklerlösung zum bildweisen Herstellen von gegerbten Bildern in einer belichteten Silberhalogenid Gelatine Emulsionsschicht, wobei die Entwicklerlösung eine im wesentlichen sulfitfreie wäßrige Alkalilösung ist, die mindestens ein Hydroxylaminderivat enthält, das geeignet ist, ein durch Luft bewirktes nichtbildweises Härten der Gelatine Zu vermindern oder Zu verhindern, wobei die Lösung ferner ein Entwicklungsmittel enthält, das eine Polyhydroxybenzolverbindung enthält, die mindestens zwei Hydroxygruppen und mindestens eine elektronenabziehende abspaltbare Gruppe enthält, die zur nukleophilen Anlagerung geeignet ist.

## Description
This invention relates to photographic processing wherein a tanning developer solution is utilized to prepare hardened imagewise exposed silver halide gelatin emulsion layers. It is well known in the art to utilize developing agents to insolubilize colloidal materials, such as gelatin, in a silver halide emulsion. Typically, in the employment of this hardening reaction, a tanning developer is utilized to develop an exposed silver halide colloidal emulsion, after which the unexposed areas may be washed away utilizing warm water, to thereby provide a photographic image or resist of the hardened or tanned colloidal material. During processing, the oxidation products of the developing solution which are formed in the exposed regions of the image diffuse through the gelatin layers containing same, hardening the colloidal gelatin itself. Such photographic emulsion layers typically may contain colorants, e.g., pigments, carbon black, etc., which may impart color to the thus formed images. Literature examples of such photographic elements include those described in U.S. Patent Nos. 3,364,024 2,837,430 4,283,479 4,299,909 4,233,392 4,233,393 4,254,210 and G.B. Patent 2,026,186A. Tanning developing solutions typically used for such photographic elements are simple aqueous solutions which contain therein a high content of sulfate salts, wherein the tanning developing agents themselves are incorporated within the gelatin layers of the silver halide emulsion containing article. In silver halide systems, antioxidants are commonly utilized during development, e.g., sulfites. In a tanning developer system, the developing solution is, however, typically devoid of such common antioxidants, or contain a reduced level thereof, due to their harmful effect on the tanning process, as is described in C. E. K. Mees and T. H. James, As a result, the image processing step is susceptible to air oxidation, which can display itself through the non imagewise hardening of the gelatin layers when the photographic element is exposed to air while wet with the developing solution. To attempt to combat this problem, the literature has reported the use of materials such as ascorbic acid as an antioxidant, as described in GB Patent 560,371 and U.S. Patent No. 2,415,666, and ascorbic acid borates as described in U.S. Patent No. 2,967,772. Conversely, U.S. Patent No. 3,293,035 discloses the use of primary amines and monohydroxy aromatic compounds, themselves not being developing agents, to improve selective tanning only in image areas, while U.S. Patent No. 2,404,724 details the use of urea as a softening agent for gelatin coatings. Nitrile compounds are further cited as stabilizing agents for graphic arts developing solutions e.g., U.S. Patent No. 3,772,022. Hydroxylamine derivatives have been taught to supplement the stability of color developing solutions, as for example in U.S. Patent Nos. 3,746,544 4,155,763 4,055,426 and 4,170,478. Alkanolamines and their derivatives are taught to be well known as pH regulators in the area of graphic arts developers, see for example, U.S. Patent No. 3,984,243. Furthermore, in the area of dye forming developers, the use of hydroxylamines together with alkanolamines has taught to enhance the stability of such developing solutions, see for example GB Patent Nos. 2,060,921A and 2,075,496A and WO 81 02797. Present developers, however, do not provide adequate protection from the oxidation effects of air, displayed by non imagewise hardening. US 3,847,618 relates to the processing of photographic silver halide materials of the lith type which incorporate hydroquinone developing agent. An alkaline developer solution containing hydroxylamine or an N monosubstituted derivative thereof is disclosed. US 3,440,049 discloses a tanning developing process in which a photographic element comprising a gelatin silver chloride mixture and containing hydroxylamine hydrochloride is developed with an alkaline aqueous developer solution in the presence of a polyhydroxy spiro bis indane. Furthermore, known developers have a narrow temperature latitude in which they function, i.e., either only at high temperatures or low temperatures. Low temperature developers are generally slow, requiring extended residence time in the developing solution, thereby increasing susceptibility to oxidation from the air. High temperature developers accelerate image development and the effects of oxidation. The oxidation manifests itself as non imagewise hardening, which affects final image quality, e.g., half dot retention is very narrow because the 90 percent dots are clogged and the 5 percent dots too large. A tanning developer solution has now been discovered which is capable of eliminating the above mentioned problems of air oxidation which unexpectedly allows image processing at a wider latitude of temperatures, especially at room as well as at elevated temperatures, a concept not heretofore available. In one aspect the invention provides a tanning developer solution suitable for forming tanned images in an exposed silver halide gelatin emulsion layer in an image wise fashion wherein said developer solution is an aqueous alkali solution substantially free of sulphite containing at least one hydroxylamine derivative capable of reducing or eliminating air induced nonimagewise hardening of said gelatin and further containing a developing agent which comprises a polyhydroxybenzene compound having at least two hydroxy groups and at least one electron withdrawing and leaving group suitable for nucleophilic addition. The invention also provides a method of developing a tanned image in a silver halide gelatin emulsion layer which has been exposed in an imagewise fashion comprising contacting said layer with an aqueous alkaline solution in the presence of at least one hydroxylamine derivative as defined above in the presence of a developing agent as defined above. Such developing agents are usually poor silver image developing agents and are active gelatin cross linkers, but in superadditivity with more active silver image developing agents, as hereafter discussed, the combination thereof allows a more facile imagewise development and tanning at a significantly wider temperature range without attendant background non imagewise tanning. The aqueous tanning developer solution of the invention can be typically rendered alkaline to a pH range of from about 8 to about 12 utilizing conventional alkali metal salts, e.g., carbonates, bicarbonates, hydroxides, etc., or by using organic bases, e.g., amines, alkanolamines, etc., and contains derivatives of hydroxylamines as stabilizers against non imagewise gelatin hardening. Preferred hydroxylamine derivatives suitable for the invention have the following general structure The following table lists illustrative representatives. Other hydroxylamine derivatives which are useful herein are described in U.S. Patent Nos. 3,287,125 3,287,124 4,055,426 and Examples of other suitable hydroxylamine derivatives include N alpha sulfopropylhydroxylamine, N alpha carboxypropylhydroxylamine alpha hydroxylamine beta phenylpropionic acid, N m sulphophenylhydroxylamine. The hydroxylamine derivatives should preferably be contained in concentrations of between 0.001 to about 10.0 grams per liter of developing solution, and preferably in amounts between about 0.01 to about 5.0 grams per liter of solution. At increasing concentrations, the image may become increasingly inhibited from satisfactory development, while decreasing concentrations reduce the desired effect on oxidation from the air. The hydroxylamine derivatives can also be included within the photographic film itself, e.g., as an oil dispersion, to reduce oxidation from the air. They can be in the silver halide layer or in reactive association therewith. The developing solution of my invention preferably also contains at least one water miscible polyhydroxy solvent which is stable in the sense that it is not reactive with other components in the solution. Such solvents should not be excessively volatile at temperatures at which the developing solutions are used during processing. They should be present in an amount from between about 5 to about 700 grams per liter of solution, and preferably between from about 100 to about 300 grams per liter. Increasing concentrations may tend to precipitate inorganic salts in the developer or make their dissolution difficult. Reduced concentrations will not provide the desired oxidation prevention. Suitable solvents include alkanols, e.g., isopropanol, and polyhdroxy organic solvents, e.g., ethylene glycol, triethylene glycol, etc. In addition, the developing solution also contains a silver image developing agent which is a polyhydroxybenzene derivative having at least two hydroxy groups and at least one electron withdrawing and leaving group for nucleophilic addition. Such groups are well known in organic chemistry, and include, for example, halides, cyans, nitro, esters, e.g., acetate, tosylates, benzoates, phenyl and substituted phenyl groups. Examples of these polyhydroxybenzene derivatives include the following These electron poor developing agents. e.g., the polyhydroxybenzene derivatives, may for example be present in amounts between from about 0.5 to about 15 grams per liter of developer solution, and more preferably between from about 1 to about 5 grams per liter. Such compounds are typically poor silver image developing agents and active gelatin crosslinkers, but in superadditivity with more active silver image developing agents, the combination thereof provides a more facile imagewise development and tanning at a wider temperature latitude without attendant background non imagewise tanning from air oxidation. These more active silver image developing agents include any of those known in the literature, for example, hydroquinone, catechol, pyrogallol and their derivatives having electron rich substituents. Superadditivity effects can be still further enhanced by including a third developing agent such as phenidone, aminophenol, metol, amidol or their derivatives. The developing agents may all be incorporated within the photographic element, within the developing solution, or a part in each. Preferably, the more active silver image developing agents are incorporated within the light sensitive photographic element while the agents containing electron withdrawing groups are contained within the developing solution. This optimizes air oxidation protection, since the more active developers are adversely affected by air to a greater extent. When utilized in the presence of other more active silver imaging developing agents, the preferred ratios, by weight, are between about 20 1 and 1 1, and preferably are about 2 1, electron poor to electron rich respectively. When a third developing agent is utilized, the preferred weight ratios are 10 1 0.1, and most preferred 2 1 0.5, electron poor to electron rich developing agents. Furthermore, the developer solution may also contain other components known to be useful as photographic developers, as described in L. F. A. Mason, Photographic Processing Chemistry , Focal Press, London, 1966. Examples therein include inorganic salts to reduce the gelatin swelling, sulfates, phosphates, borates, surfactants development accelerators such as polyoxyalkylene derivatives, as described in U.S. Patent No. 1,269,312 and gelatin softening agents such as urea, as described in U.S. Patent No. 2,404,774. The invention will now be more specifically described by the following non limiting example, wherein all parts are by weight unless otherwise specified. A tanning silver halide photographic element was first prepared for use in testing the developers of my invention by applying on a conventionally subbed polyester base the following light sensitive layers a the first layer of a light sensitive unhardened gelatin layer containing a silver iodo bromide emulsion containing 94 mole percent silver bromide with a grain size between 0.34 and 1.6 micrometers. Also contained therein was a pigment dispersion consisting of 4 percent by weight gelatin, 11 percent by weight Colanyl Red FGR Trade Mark and 9 percent by weight Flexonil Blue AN Trade Mark , as a water pigment dispersion available from American Hoechst. The emulsion was chemically and optically sensitized at the coverage of 0.5 grams per square meter with a silver to gelatin ratio of 0.3 and hydroquinone and phenidone thus obtaining a gelatin hydroquinone phenidone ratio of 1 0.07 0.01. b Over this layer was applied an unhardened gelatin protective layer containing gelatin at a coverage of 1 gram per square meter and 2,5 diisooctyl hydroquinone in a dispersion with tricresylphosphate at a coverage of 0.96 grams per square meter. A reference photographic element was exposed to a sensitometric wedge 0 3 logE for 2x10 ⁶ seconds with a 1.29 N fullstop D fullstop filter, and to alphabetic letters by contact exposure in a vacuum frame of a photographic enlarger, manually developed in the developer solution, and dip washed with warm water for 30 seconds at 32.2 C 90 F . The developer sequence was for 30 seconds at 32.2 C 90 F , 2 minutes at 22.2 C 72 F and 5 minutes at 20 C 68 F . Each test photographic element was then exposed and developed in a similar manner to a reference sample including an additional step, that being the exposure thereof to air for 30 seconds while wet with developer solution and prior to the dip wash step. The images were then wiped clean with a wet soft tissue to remove residual pigmentation. The minimum and maximum densities of the wedge image were measured and the background non imagewise hardening was monitored and noted relative to various developer solutions. In each of the following test solutions, the final pH thereof was adjusted to 10.1 with sodium bicarbonate. In the following example, the components were added to the distilled water and mixed to provide a developer solution. Developer formulations were prepared utilizing hydroxylamine derivatives in conjunction with other photographic developing agents. The results thereof are as follows