# T CELL RECEPTOR SPECIFIC FOR ANTIGEN POLYPEPTIDES AND RELATED POLYNUCLEOTIDES

## Claims
Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragsstaaten BE, CH, LI, DE, FR, GB, IT, LU, NL, SE

## Description
The hematopoietic system is extraordinarily complex, which is not surprising in view of the central role blood cells play in the maintenance and survival of the host. One aspect of great importance is the manner in which the host protects itself from various pathogens. Two families of cells play a salient role in protecting the host, B cells and T cells. The mystery of how the B cells are able to produce an extraordinary variety of immunoglobulins has been explained to a substantial degree. The germline DNA is now known to undergo rearrangements, so as to join various exons together to produce a variable region which is then joined to differing constant regions as the B cell matures. The mechanism by which the DNA undergoes the rearrangement and the subsequent transcript is spliced to produce a messenger RNA coding for a specific immunoglobulin has been an exciting adventure demonstrating the potency of the tools afforded by the developments in molecular biology. Another class of cells important to the immune system of the host is the T cells. These cells differ from the B cells in that they do not secrete immunoglobulins, although they appear to have a similar range of antigenic specificities. Particularly, helper T cells, which are involved in stimulating B cell proliferation, can have specificity analogous to that of B cells, with the additional requirement that they must also recognize self major histocompatability determinants simultaneously. The specificity of T cells can find application in a wide variety of situations. If one could modify a helper T cell by introducing a foreign receptor site, one could change the response of the host to a foreign antigen. Furthermore, in many situations, it may be of interest to determine whether a cell is a helper T cell or other type of cell. In addition, one has the opportunity to determine monoclonality in the host, which can be useful in the diagnosis of T cell leukemias. Also, having DNA sequences which encode for portions of the T cell antigen specific receptor would allow for constructions involving the combination of native T cell sequences with foreign sequences to produce novel proteins which could act as receptors. Also, antisera and monoclonal antibodies could be generated against specific parts of the protein, using either synthetic peptides or producing the protein in an expression vector. By employing hybridization with DNA sequences, subsets of T cells may be determined as well as genetic differences and defects. The second domain of HLA DC has been shown to be homologous to immunoglobulin. Auffray Saito, Marx in Science 1983 EP A 0149548 is cited under Article 54 3 EPC. It discloses nucleotide and polypeptide sequences for a T cell antigen receptor subunit as well as methods for obtaining same. The present invention provides DNA sequences encoding the β subunit of the antigen specific receptors in T cells and fragments thereof. The DNA can be used in a variety of ways, such as nucleotide probes, combining with foreign DNA sequences to produce novel T cell receptors, which can be used in an analogous manner as antibodies, or constructs can be provided which provide for extrachromosomal elements or integration into a host genome, where the hybrid proteins may be expressed and transported to the membrane. Although reference is made in the description to both α and β subunits, the invention relates to the β subunit. Figure 1 is a restriction map of T cell antigen receptor fragments, where shaded areas indicate major homologies between the different cDNA clones. Sequencing was by the procedure of Maxam and Gilbert, Figure 2 shows the complete nucleotide sequence of 86T1 and partial sequences of the other cDNA clones, indicating the 5 untranslated region UT , the leader polypeptide, variable, joining, and constant regions, with the numbering following the amino acid sequence of 86T1 and possible carbohydrate attachment sites CHO N X S or N X T noted. Figure 3 shows the sequencing strategy of TT11 cDNA clones, with thin lines indicating 5 end labeling with polynucleotide kinase and thick lines indicating 3 end labeling with the Klenow fragment of DNA polymerase I. It also shows the nucleotide sequence, predicted amino acids, and indicates generally the individual regions. CHO indicates potential signal sequences for N linked glycosylation. The present invention provides an isolated nucleic acid of at least 15 consecutive nucleotides coding for a peptide or polypeptide unique to a β subunit of a T cell antigen receptor, with the exception of a nucleic acid that encodes a polypeptide that is part of a mammalian T cell antigen receptor, said nucleic acid comprising at least 936 nucleotides and A nucleic acid that encodes a polypeptide which is 312 amino acids in length and which is a β subunit part of a mammalian T cell antigen receptor, said nucleic acid comprising at least 936 nucleotides and being as defined in i , ii or iii above, is disclosed in European Patent Application No. 85300243.4, Publication No. 0 149 548. In accordance with the subject invention, novel DNA sequences are provided involving in whole or in part coding sequences for antigen specific T cell receptors or fragments thereof, specifically involving functional regions, which may be found on one or more exons in the germline and rearranged DNA or in whole or in part as cDNA from a mature messenger RNA. The mammalian T cell receptors appear to be 80 90kdal heterodimers, which are disulfide linked, and composed of two distinct glycoproteins of about 40 to 50kd kilodaltons , referred to as the α and β subunits. The two glycoproteins have variable and constant regions or domains by peptide map analysis. The DNA sequences encoding for the glycoproteins of the heterodimer are divisible into variable, joining and constant regions, analogous to immunoglobulins, as evidenced by the sequences having significant homology with the immunoglobulin sequences and by the independent assortment of the J like elements. Each of the subunits appears to have diversity D regions comparable to the heavy chain of immunoglobulins. The α and β subunits have many similarities between themselves, other T cell membrane proteins and immunoglobulins or B cell receptor proteins. For the most part, the overall homology is low with few similarities of either amino acid sequence or nucleotide sequence in the constant regions. The methionine of the leader peptide will be used as 1 for the amino acid sequence. The cysteine spacing is found to be between about 65 to 70 amino acids in the variable region α 65 β 69 Igλ or κ 65 . In addition the sequence WYRQ in the variable region of the α chain at about residue 55 finds analogy in the β chain in WYKQ and analogous sequences at comparable positions in immunoglobulins. In the variable regions, the sequence DSA Y CAV is found in the region of residues of about 100 115, with one or two differences in amino acids. The J region appears to be the most highly conserved with 7 of 16 residues of the α chain the same as the β chain and significant homology with consensus sequences of murine heavy and light chains. Also characteristic of the T cell receptor sequences is the sequence ILLXK where X is L or G, having a basic amino acid in the transmembrane region. In support of a D or diversity region, 5 to the SGN sequence at about residues 115 to 120, is the nucleotide sequence G₅ . In 7 of 14 β chain putative D regions, runs of G The α and β chains are encoded in germline DNA which is subject to rearrangement to provide a transcript which may be further processed. Either the genomic DNA may be used or cDNA from the mature transcript for purposes described hereinafter. Each of the chains has from 3 to 5, usually 4 to 5 N glycosylation sites, where some or all of them may be employed. The two chains of the heterodimer are different and appear to be derived from different gene loci. The sequences for a β chain and an α chain are set forth in Figures 2 and 3, respectively. The chains may be divided up into regions associated with specific exons by analogy to immunoglobulins. The primary regions are the leader region, variable region V , diversity region D , which may be part of V, the joining region J , the constant region C , the transmembrane region TM and the cytoplasmic region Cy . The α chain without glycosylation will be about 25 to 30kD kilodaltons , while the β chain will be about the same or larger, being about 25 to 35kD. With glycosylation the subunits will be about 35 to 50kD each, usually 40 to 50kD each, providing a sulfhydryl linked heterodimer of 80 to 90kD. For each of the subunits, the rearranged DNA in helper T cells, including introns will generally, be approximately 6 to 8kbp, with individual exons being substantially smaller and approximating the size of cDNA sequences for domains plus whatever flanking regions are included. The DNA sequence coding for the constant region including the transmembrane and cytoplasmic region will generally be about 400 to 600nt nucleotides , plus about 300nt of 3 untranslated regions. These sequences will be characterized by having codons encoding for intrachain disulfide linkages between cysteines spaced apart about 100 to 200nt, usually about 100 to 150nt. In conjunction with the constant region is a probable transmembrane sequence, primarily including hydrophobic amino acids and having from about 45 to 105nt. This sequence will define the 3 terminus of the constant region and may include about 5 to 15 codons 15 to 45nt for amino acids which extend into the cytoplasm of the cell. The next region or domain which appears to have functional significance is the region analogous to the J region of immunoglobulins. As is known with immunoglobulins, there are a plurality of J regions, adjacent to a given C region ranging about 1 to 6 in number, more usually about 4 to 5. The J regions encode about 15 to 20 amino acids, the β chain with 16 amino acids having greater similarity to the immunoglobulin heavy chain J regions, in that the heavy chain J regions are typically 17 amino acids, while the light chain J regions are typically 13 amino acids. The J regions can be used in conjunction with constant regions which may or may not include the transmembrane sequence and cytoplasmic sequence to be joined to other DNA sequences, e.g., non wild sequences, to produce hybrid sequences to allow for novel hybrid proteins on T cell surfaces. By non wild is intended a sequence other than the wild type or native sequence, while foreign intends from a source which does not normally exchange genetic information with the source of the T cell antigen receptor DNA sequence. In order to have the hybrid proteins transported to the surface, the secretory leader sequence present with the T cell antigen receptor is employed as the 5 terminus. The sequence is of about 15 to 25 amino acids, more usually 18 to 24 amino acids. Thus constructs can be prepared, where various domains of the T cell antigen receptor DNA sequence, which may include non coding flanking regions, are separated by non wild type DNA. Novel DNA constructions can be employed for cloning and or expressing the T cell antigen receptor, individual subunits, fragments thereof, or combinations of fragments with non wild DNA, including foreign DNA, to produce hybrid proteins. The fragments will be of at least about 15nt, usually at least about 50nt. These constructions will for the most part have the following formula The T cell antigen receptor subunit or hybrid T cell antigen receptor will for the most part have the following formula Each of the two subunits, α and β , may be expressed independently in different hosts or in the same host. Where the two subunits are expressed in the same host, depending upon whether a microorganism host or mammalian host is employed will affect the processing of the subunits and assembling of the subunits into the T cell receptor. Involved with processing is folding, glycosylation, transport through the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus, cleavage with removal of the secretory leader sequence, as well as capping or blocking of the N terminus by acetylation. As part of the processing or independent of the processing folding of the subunits and assembling of the subunits into the T cell receptor must occur. With mammalian cells, it is to be expected that the resulting protein will substantially conform with the naturally occurring T cell receptor in its chemical, physical and biological properties. However, with lower eukaryotes and prokaryotes, various of the process steps may occur in whole or in part, differently or not at all. Therefore, the sequences may be modified by replacing the wild type secretory leader sequence with a secretory leader sequence recognized by the expression host or provide for an initiation codon at the beginning of the variable region. The subunits may then be isolated in the cytoplasm and the receptor formed by bringing the α and β subunits together under renaturing conditions. DNA coding for receptor subunit fragments should encode for a polypeptide of at least 8 amino acids, usually at least 15 amino acids 24nt and 45nt, respectively , so as to provide polypeptides having biological activity, e.g., immunological. The constructions, as indicated, can be prepared by inserting DNA coding for only a portion of a T cell antigen receptor subunit where the vector has one or more appropriate restriction sites, or can be modified, for example, by adapters, to provide for insertion at an appropriate site in relation to a promoter and associated regulatory sequence, e.g., RNA polymerase binding site for transcription and to appropriate translational regulatory sequences, e.g., ribosomal binding site, or to be in reading frame with a leader sequence. The domains or regions of the T cell antigen receptor can be employed individually or in combination. By employing cDNA, one can obtain the gene in open reading frame coding for the preprotein, that is the protein prior to processing, such as removal of the secretory leader, glycosylation, or the like. By restriction mapping the cDNA, one can determine the presence of convenient restriction sites adjacent the borders between the individual domains as indicated in the above formula. Where a restriction site is not at the border, one can still cleave at a site near the border, using either partial or complete digestion as appropriate with the appropriate restriction enzyme. Where nucleotides have been removed so as to have a truncated sequence, one may replace the nucleotide s employing appropriate adapters which allow for joining the domain of interest to another nucleotide sequence in proper reading frame. Where extra nucleotides are present, one can remove these by resection, e.g., employing The DNA sequences which are employed, may be the same or different from the sequences isolated in accordance with the subject invention. By employing the J or C domain sequences either by themselves or in combination with other sequences, e.g., transmembrane sequences, the subject sequences can be used as probes for determining the presence of homologous sequences in the same or different species and for isolating sequences having equivalent functions. In this manner, a repertory of sequences can be obtained which can be joined together to provide for a variety of cistrons coding for T cell antigen receptors or hybrid proteins employing varying combinations of fragments from T cell antigen receptors. By joining the secretory leader sequence of the T cell antigen receptors to a non wild DNA sequence, one can provide for secretion of a hybrid protein into the nutrient medium and processing, so as to obtain a mature protein product from a mammalian host. Where the protein is a eukaryotic protein, it can be properly processed, so as to provide a product which is the same or substantially the same as the naturally occurring eukaryotic protein. Alternatively, if one wishes to provide for specific proteins on the T cell surface or surface of a different mammalian cell, one can interpose the foreign sequence coding for the foreign protein between the secretory leader sequence and the transmembrane sequence in place of the sequences coding for the variable, J and constant regions of the T cell antigen receptor subunit. In this way, one can provide for a totally different surface membrane protein at the cell surface, modifying the surface characteristics of the cell. By using the expression products of the subject constructs, one can obtain antibodies to the expression products, which can then be used for detecting the presence of T cell antigen receptors or individual subunits, due to sharing idiotypic determinants or common determinants to the J or C regions. The cloned DNA sequences, particularly of the sequences extending from the 5 end of the C region to the 3 end of the cytoplasmic region can be used as probes. Usually, the probes will be at least about 15nt, more usually at least about 30nt and will generally not exceed 1500nt, more usually not exceeding about 1000nt, preferably not exceeding about 500nt of homologous sequence. Additional, non homologous flanking sequences may be present which may be up to 5knt or more. The nucleotide sequences employed as probes may be RNA or DNA and may be labeled in a wide variety of ways. Commonly, probes are labeled with ³²p and may be detected by autoradiography. Alternatively, biotin, novel sugars, or any other molecule may be included by virtue of the use of synthetic techniques for producing the oligonucleotide. Thus, any terminal group may be introduced in a simple manner to act as a source of a detectable signal. These groups may be introduced directly or indirectly, that is, by covalent bonding, ligand receptor bonding, e.g., haptens and antibodies, or the like. Illustrative labels which provide for a detectable signal include fluorescers, chemiluminescers, enzymes, radioactive labels, magnetic particles, and the like. Two different methods for obtaining rare messenger RNA were employed for isolating the rare messenger RNAs associated with the T cell antigen receptor subunits. The method employed for the β subunit involved the separation of membrane bound polysomal RNA from non membrane bound RNA. The membrane bound polysomal fraction of RNA was then reverse transcribed to produce single stranded ss cDNA. The cDNA was then labeled with ³²P and repeatedly hybridized with B cell mRNA and fractionated on hydroxyapatite. Remaining ss cDNA which passed through the column was isolated. A second T helper hybridoma was then used to prepare a cDNA library and was screened with the cDNA probes prepared from the first T helper hybridoma. This resulted in substantial enrichment for T cell specific membrane associated sequences about 200 fold . The reduced number of selected clones was rescreened using the initially prepared probes. The positive clones were then nick translated and hybridized to B cell mRNA under Northern blotting conditions. Those clones that did not hybridize to the B cell mRNA s were selected as T cell specific. The clones were then employed to investigate somatic rearrangements as follows. Those which hybridize to RNAs having greater than 1000nt were hybridized to Southern blots of genomic DNA from various sources including a helper T cell hybridoma and a thymoma. The DNAs were prepared by standard methods, digested with a particular restriction enzyme, in this case, The method employed for the α subunit involved a variable region specific subtracted cDNA probe between T cells of differing specificities. Random primed labeled cDNA from the mRNA of a helper hybridoma was synthesized. After fragmentation to an average size of about 300 400nt, sequences were subtracted with mRNA from at least two different T helper hybridoma or T helper like lymphoma line, using hydroxyapatite to separate single from double stranded nucleic acid. The single stranded cDNA remaining was then hybridized to a cDNA library prepared from the cell line providing the original cDNA. Further elimination of irrelevant sequences can be achieved by rescreening the positive clones with oligo dT primed cDNA from the same T helper hybridoma, where the cDNA is reverse transcribed from membrane bound polysomal mRNA subtracted with mRNA from a macrophage or othe lymphocytic line. Resulting hybridizing clones are found to be related to the variable region of the T cell receptor. By employing hybrid DNA technology the α and β subunits can be prepared individually or combined as a receptor having high specificity and affinity for specific conformations of organic molecules, such as polypeptides, polysaccharides, lipids, haptens and combinations thereof. A class of receptors is provided analogous to the immunoglobulins which can be used in substantially the same way, but lacking properties associated with immunoglobulins, such as Fc determinants, complement associated cytotoxicity, or other characteristics specifically associated with immunoglobulins. The subject receptors can be used to compete with surface membrane bound T cell receptors The T cell receptors may be used in most of the situations where immunoglobulins find use, such as diagnostic assays, affinity chromatography, site directed therapy or diagnosis where the T cell receptor may be conjugated directly or indirectly to radionuclides, nmr active compounds, fluorescers, toxins, e.g., abrin, ricin, etc., or the like. By having the genes available for the α and β chains, the chains and, therefore, the receptors may be prepared in large amounts from cells other than human cells, which are less fastidious in their growth requirements than human cells. The T cell receptos may be prepared in bacteria, e.g., The following examples are offered by way of illustration and not by way of limitation The procedure for gene isolation of genes encoding for helper T cell antigen specific receptor subunits α and β T The isolation of the β subunit will be considered first. Membrane bound T helper cell cDNA probes was subtracted with B cell messenger RNA and used to screen a cDNA library which was the product of another T The exemplary procedure for the B cell library follows. The cell lines Bal17, B cell lymphoma IgM IgD Ia Kim cDNA from the B cell lymphoma was synthesized from 1 to 5µg template polyA RNA in 50mM Tris, pH 8.3, 6mM MgCl₂, 70mM KCl, 1mM each dNTP, ³²P dCTP to give first strand specificity of 10⁵cpm µg , 10µg ml oligo dT, 20mM dithiothreitol, 100µg ml Actinomycin D in a 100µl reaction mixture. Ten units AMV reverse transcriptase was added per µg polyA RNA and incubated for 2hr at 42 C. After adding an equal volume of 0.2M NaOH, the mixture was incubated at 70 C for 20min, cooled on ice, neutralized with 1M HCl and sodium acetate pH 6.5 and SDS added to 0.2M and 0.1 , respectively. At room temperature, the cDNA was excluded from G 50F Sephadex in a Pasteur pipette column with a running buffer of 100mM NaCl, 50mM Tris, pH 7.5, 1mM EDTA and 0.02 SDS. Fifty µg of tRNA was added as carrier and the cDNA precipitated in a silanized Eppendorf tube 1.5ml . The precipitate was washed once with 70 ethanol, dried and resuspended in 0.5M phosphate buffer, 5mM EDTA, 0.1 SDS and hybridized in sealed glass capillaries with the T cell thymoma RNA at a 10 fold excess at 1 to 1.5mg ml. To absorb repetitive sequences, sheared mouse genomic DNA 1.2mg ml, 10µg per reaction was included. After boiling for 60sec, the mixture was incubated for 16 to 20hr at 60 C. Hydroxyapatite chromatography was then used to fractionate the material in 0.12M phosphate buffer, 0.1 SDS, 60 C. The single stranded fraction was made double stranded with DNA polymerase I Klenow fragment , trimmed with S1 nuclease and G C tailed into the The library of 5000 selected clones was screened and rescreened by standard procedures Maniatis TM8 cross hybridized strongly with a rat thy 1 cDNA clone. thy 1 is a classic T cell membrane antigen. A cDNA library was now prepared from the hybridoma 3.3T Heber Katz Each of the seven clones which hybridized to messengers of at least 1000nt were labeled and hybridized to genomic Southern blots composed of DNA from the thymoma BW5147 from the mouse strain AKR, Heber Katz To test whether genomic rearrangements of a receptor gene were unique for T cells of different antigen specificities, genomic blots consisting of DNA from five antigen specific T cell hybridomas were hybridized with a nick translated insert from clone TM86. The results were that DNA from each of the antigen specific T cells yielded a unique pattern. Three different B cell lymphoma tumor DNAs gave patterns identical to that of the liver indicating that the rearrangement appeared to be unique to the T cells. Also a series of cytotoxic lines express messenger RNAs similar to those of T helper cells by cross reaction with the gene described here and also display rearrangement of their genomic DNA. In order to obtain other cDNA clones which arose independently in different T lymphocytes, a thymocyte cDNA library was prepared using the lambda vector gt10 generally available from Ronald Davis, Stanford University, Stanford, California . The library was screened with the TM86 clone using standard conditions Maniatis Positively hybridizing recombinants were subcloned into the Based on the fact that the largest mRNA seen in Northern blots is 1300nt, subtracting a polyA tail of 150 250 nucleotides gives an expected clone size of 1050 1150nt. Therefore, it may be concluded that the 938 nucleotide size of 86T1 should contain most of the coding region sequence for a thymocyte molecule. 86T1 was completely sequenced and compared with the partial sequences of the other clones as shown in Figure 2. Based on the comparisons a number of conclusions may be derived 1 No two 5 ends are alike among the four cDNA clones, yet all have identical 3 ends, except as noted in Figure 1. The entire constant region of 86T3 was sequenced and was found to be identical except for one nucleotide with that shown for 86T1. This 5 variable and 3 constant region structure is analogous to immunoglobulin cDNA clones. 2 There is a stretch of hydrophobic amino acids immediately following the methionine initiation codon corresponding to the expected leader polypeptide. In particular, the sequence Leu Leu Leu is common among kappa light chain leader polypeptides. 3 A 16 amino acid element between the variable and constant regions is shared at the nucleotide level between 86T1 and 86T5, but not with 86T3 or TM86, suggesting an independently assorting J like region. 4 Placement of cysteine and other residues suggests significant structural similarity to immunoglobulins and related molecules. 5 The apparent variable region of 86T3 appears non functional because of the many five stop codons in frame with the otherwise normal constant region and, in fact, this clone has stop codons in reading frame, indicating that not all transcripts of this gene are successful in producing a viable molecule, at least in the thymus. In order to analyze the sequence of this cDNA clone for evolutionary relationships with known proteins, the derived amino acid sequence was compared to the Dayhoff protein sequence data bank using the rapid comparison programs of Wilbur and Lipman, Pronounced homology was observed to immunoglobulins throughout what is probably the first constant region domain, particularly around the cysteine at position 164. In this region it was interesting to note that the sequence immediately 5 to the cysteine is homologous to light chains and the sequence 3 to heavy chains. Substantial homology is also observed to both kappa and lambda light chains around the last cysteine position 260 in the 86T1 sequence. Of the four clones, 16 amino acids are shared between the 86T1 and 86T5, but not with the other two clones sequenced, 86T3 and TM86. This homology falls precisely into the region occupied by joining J region elements in immunoglobulins. The putative J region of both 86T1 and TM86 show substantial homologies with all the immunoglobulin J regions. In terms of size, the putative J regions are more related to heavy chains which average 17 amino acids than light chains 13 amino acids . In addition to the J element, the adjacent 5 region between amino acids 103 115 has substantial homology between 86T5 and TM86. In particular the 17 nucleotide and nine nucleotide identities between these two cDNA clones suggest other possible mini gene elements possibly analogous to the D region of heavy chain immunoglobulins. Alternatively, these homologies may represent some highly conserved areas of related variable region genes. A hydropathicity plot Kyte and Doolittle, In conclusion, the structure of 86T1 is that of a 19 amino acid leader polypeptide, a 98 amino acid variable region, a 16 amino acid J region and a single globular constant region domain followed by transmembrane and cytoplasmic portions. By analogy to immunoglobulins, the two outermost cysteines in each globular domain would be linked and the last cysteine at position 260 would be bound to the other chain of the receptor heterodimer. It was further found that antisera raised against synthetic peptide fragments of 86T1 can significantly inhibit the antigen dependent release of IL 2 by T helper hybridomas. It is therefore concluded that the locus described above represents a type of immunoglobulin gene specifically rearranged and expressed in at least some subsets of T lymphocytes and that it plays a role in the recognition of antigen by T cells. The isolation and characterization of the T Calf thymus DNA was used to synthesize random prime ³²P labeled cDNA by standard procedures Maniatis To demonstrate that the gene encoding for the sequence of TT11 was as a result of a rearrangement, genomic DNAs from the livers of different mouse strains, various T cell lines and hybrids of the B cell lymphoma L10A were digested with a The TT11 cDNA clone was partially sequenced by the procedure of Maxam and Gilbert, Features of the sequence are an extra cysteine outside of the putative intra domain cysteines in the constant region common to the latter two T cell specific genes , followed by a transmembrane region and a cytoplasmic region, all of which are encoded as separate exons in the β chain genes. There are four potential N linked glycosylation sites, similar to the four or five found in different β chain sequences. It would appear that only three of these four potential sites are available for glycosylation since the most carboxy terminal one is embedded in the transmembrane region. The exact position of processing of the T cell receptor α subunit has not been established, but by analogy to immunoglobulin types, it would be just before the glutamine at 1 shown in Fig. 3. Alternatively, based on the N terminal amino acid sequence of the human β chain from the REX T cell line Acuto The overall homology with the V and C regions of Ig counterparts is relatively low 10 26 . However, many of the conserved residues found in all the five known Ig like genes are present, particularly in the V region and the J region elements. The spacing of the cysteines in the TT11 variable region is 65 amino acids, which is identical to that of the light chains, and the sequence WYRQ starting at residue 35 and DSA Y CAV at residues 83 91 are also highly conserved in most I , G and T cell receptor V regions. As with the β chain and HDS4, the J region in the most highly conserved portion, with 7 16 residues homologous to the β chain concensus sequence Gascoigne While not established, there appears to be strong support that there is a D region present in the α subunit. In particular, just 5 to the SGN amino acid sequence of the J region which marks the 5 border of J To establish the ratio of the mRNAs for the α and β subunits, thymocyte, conA concanavilin A stimulated spleen and 2B4 cDNA libraries were surveyed with TT11, HDS4 and C It is evident from the above results that novel DNA sequences and constructs are provided which provide for the expression of T cell antigen receptors, subunits and fragments thereof. The DNA sequences can be used in a variety of ways to produce hybrid proteins, which may be retained as surface membrane proteins, can be labeled to provide for probes for determining lymphocyte origin or type, for isolating DNA sequences from T cells, for use as primers for producing DNA sequences coding for the T cell receptor subunits, or for use for secretion of foreign proteins from a mammalian host cell. The peptides can be used for the production of antibodies for isolation of T cell antigen receptors, for removal of T cells from cell mixtures, for identification of T cells, or for binding to T cells Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail by way of illustration and example for purposes of clarity of understanding, it will be obvious that certain changes and modifications may be practiced within the scope of the appended claims.