# ANTI NBC NUCLEAR, BIOLOGICAL OR BATERIOLOGICAL, CHEMICAL OVERSHOE AND ITS MANUFACTURING PROCESS

## Claims
Anti ABC Ueberschuh, hergestellt aus einer, eine Schicht mit inneren und aeusseren Flaechen ohne jeglicher Unterbrechung der Flaechenkontinuitaet und ohne jeglicher inneren und aeusseren Verbindungsstellen bildenden Mischung 2 auf der Basis von vulkanisiertem Gummi, wobei innerhalb der Schicht aus der Mischung 2 eine an die Mischung 2 haftende Textileinlage 1 vorgesehen ist, dadurch gekennzeichnet, dass die Textileinlage 1 in einer bezueglich der durch die Mischung 2 gebildeten Schicht aussermittigen Lage vollstaendig in die Mischung 2 eingebettet und durch sie durchdrungen ist, wobei die Mischung 2 an der Aussenseite der Textileinlage 1 ein Dicke von mindestens 2 mm und an der Innenseite der Textileinlage 1 eine Dicke von etwa 0,1 mm besitzt.

## Description
The development of nuclear technologies and their varied applications, along with the preparation of new chemical, biological or bacteriological aggressive agents, has brought about a need for suitable garments or articles which can be worn by authorised personnel whilst performing repairs, overhauls and maintenance work, by the civil population in the event of accidents or catastrophes and by the special civil defence corps in the course of their duties and during decontamination operations. Furthermore, in a manner consistent with the threat of an NBC war, the General Staffs of the armed forces of the technologically advanced countries have commissioned the various research institutes and specialised companies to undertake product research and development studies in this direction, that is regarding how to defend oneself and, if necessary, neutralise an NBC threat. In this respect there may be cited the specifications of NATO, which in 1977 was already issuing precise instructions to its member countries, namely that the troops should be provided with equipment constituting an effec tive form of defence for resisting chemical, biological and bacteriological attacks and for entering the scene of the action, without danger, after thermonuclear attacks. In particular, various models of overshoes have been produced, which tend to guarantee impermeability with respect to NBC aggressive agents and at the same time possess the required degree of mechanical strength. Models from Canada, Great Britain, Belgium and Italy were produced by means of a process involving a rubberised fabric the latter, suitably cut, was glued and shaped on an aluminium last and the whole assembly was vulcanised in an autoclave. In Germany, for example, an overshoe has been produced by means of compression moulding this article has a very low mechanical strength which does not satisfy in any way the conditions stipulated in the specifications. From FR A 1 413 536 it is known to manufacture a shoe in form of a boot made of a mixture based on vulcanised rubber forming a layer without any internal and external joints and having internal and external surfaces without any interruption of the surface continuity. On the inside of the layer a textile insert is bonded to the mixture. The textile insert, which during manufacturing of the shoe is fitted on a male part of a mould for receiving the moulded mixture on its outside surface, is made so as to cover the larger part of the mould without undergoing deformation and without forming interspaces between the individual threads, so that the rubber material is practically prevented from penetrating into the textile insert. There now follows a description of a particular embodiment of the invention, with reference also to its production cycle, in relation to the Figures of the attached drawings, without, however, detracting in any way from the general nature of the subject of the invention itself. Figure 1a is a side elevational view of a particular embodiment of the overshoe. Figure 1b shows a plan view of the anti NBC overshoe which is the subject of the invention, seen from the sole, the said sole being provided with anti slip pattern and relief. Figure 1c shows a cross section of the overshoe at the level of the instep. Figure 2 shows a flow chart of the process for manufacturing the anti NBC overshoe, broken down into its most important operations. The anti NBC overshoe, in the characteristic embodiment of Fig. 1a, is shaped in an ergonomic manner so as to allow it to be easily put on or taken off, the cross section 3 of entry, or respectively the length of the leg portion 9, being about 9 16, or respectively 3 4, of the cross section, or length, of the sole 11. The toe 5 of the overshoe is thus extremely short, whereas a bulge at the heel 6 further facilitates introduction, or removal of the foot once inside. In practice an overshoe is obtained in which the cross section at the instep 7 and the cross section at the upper end of the leg portion 9 are very similar in size to the area of the upper 4. The height of the leg portion 9 can be chosen as required, in accordance with the various requirements, from the foot 10 of the anti NBC overshoe. The anti NBC overshoe is fixed to the leg of the wearer by means of a cord or lace which passes through holes 8 in the upper edge of the leg portion 9 and which has precisely the function of fastening the overshoe to the leg of the wearer. The sole 11 has a special relief pattern to prevent slipping Fig. 1b . Structurally, the overshoe which is the subject of the invention Figures 1a and 1c comprises a textile insert 1 which is made of polyamide fabric and has been specially woven and prepared and which is completely permeated by and embedded in a mixture 2 based on butyl or nitrile rubber to which KOEDUR has been added. This insert 1, which is completely permeated by the mixture and embedded in it in the manner of a core, is off centre with respect to the said mixture in the sense that it is arranged asymmetrically with respect to the layer formed by the said mixture. Externally the covering layer on the insert, which insert has a thickness of 0.3 0.1 mm, can reach a thickness of 2 0.1 mm on the leg portion 2.3 The overshoe thus consists completely of rubber on the outside and is without joints, whereas the insert is permeated by the mixture which extends inside by a thin layer beyond the insert, the insert and mixture, after vulcanisation, thereby forming a whole which is intimately bonded and inseparable. In this way a high, almost total degree of impermeability is guaranteed, whilst excellent mechanical characteristics are retained. There now follows a detailed description of the production cycle Figure 2 . Moulds are made from tempered AQ 50 steel suitable for treatment by nitriding. The moulds are intended for injection moulding and consist of Due to the special shape of the male part, the textile insert can be introduced and the finished product removed despite the almost complete inelasticity. The textile insert 1 is made of polyamide fabric woven with 12 beating up operations both for the warp and for the weft and is prepared from pieces of cloth which are hollow punched at 45 with respect to the direction of the beating up thus the elasticity required to compensate for the variability of the article is produced and perfect adaptability to the male part of the mould is ensured. The mixture for moulding the anti NBC overshoe is based on a butyl or nitrile rubber to which KOEDUR has been added. The textile insert is fitted onto the open male part and, when the mould is closed, is tensioned and adheres perfectly to the male part. The mixture is injected at a pressure of approximately 200 atmospheres so as to make a layer of about 0.1 mm penetrate beyond the textile insert, which is thus completely permeated by and embedded in the rubber and hence is inseparable from the latter once the vulcanisation process has been completed. At the end of the cycle the overshoe consists completely of rubber on the outside and is without joints. Anti NBC overshoes are thus obtained which are particularly suited for protection against NBC aggressive agents and which can be used by the civil population, by civil defence personnel in the event of an NBC catastrophe, by specialists who operate, repair, overhaul and maintain NBC plants and by troops in the event of an NBC threat or conflict.