# Dialkoxy and dioxacycloalkyl alkyltheobromines, pharmaceutical compositions containing them and their preparation.

## Abstract
Pharmaceutical compositions containing a compound of the formula II

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A pharmaceutical composition characterised by containing a compound of the formula II EMI9.1 wherein R1 is a lower alkyl group and R2 is a lower alkyl group optionally linked to Ri so that the OR1 and OR2 moieties and the carbon atom to which they are attached form a 1,3 dioxacyclohexa 2,2 diyl, 1,3 dioxacyclopenta2,2 diyl or 1 ,3 dioxacyclohepta 2, 2 diyl diradical. 2. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 1 characterised by containing a compound of the formula II , wherein R1 and R2 are the same lower alkyl group. 3. A pharmaceutical compcisition according to claim 1 characterised by containing a compound of the formula II , wherein the OR1 and OR2 moieties and the carbon atom to which they are attached form a 1,3 dioxacyclohexa 2,2 diyl, 1 3 dioxacyclopenta 2, 2 diyl or 1,3 dioxacyclohepta 2,2 diyl diradical, 4. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 3 characterised by containing 2 methyl 2 4 theobrominylbutyl 1, 3 dioxalane 5. A pharmaceutical composition according to any one of claims 1 o 4 which is a tablet. 6. A pharmaceutical composition according to any one of claims 1 to 4 which is a capsule. 7. A process for the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition according to claim 1 characterised by bringing a compound of the formula II into association with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 8 A process according to claim 7, characterised by blending the compound of the formula II with the carrier and optionally thereafter compressing the resultant blend into a tablet or filling the resultant blend into a capsule. 9. A compound of the formula II as defined in claim 1, other than 2 methyl 2 4 theobrominyl butyl 1,3dioxalane. 10. 2 methyl 2 4 theobrominyl butyl l,3 dioxalane for the promotion of blood flow through skeletal muscle.

## Description
Pharmaceutical Compositions Containing a Xanthine DerivativeThe compound of the formula I EMI1.1 was disclosed in DDR Patentschrift 129911 as being a chemical intermediate but no harmacological activity was ascribed to it. It has now been found that the compound of the formula I and certain related compounds have similar pharmacological properties to pentoxyphilline and so may be used to promote blood flow through skeletal muscles which is desirable for the treatment of intermittant claudication. The present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition containing a compound of the formula II EMI1.2 wherein R1 is a lower alkyl group and R2 is a lower alkyl group optionally linked to R1 so that the OR1 and OR2 moieties and the carbon atom to which they are attached form a 1,3 dioxacyclohexa 2,2 diyl, 1,3 dioxacyclo penta 2,2 diyl or 1,3 dioxacyclohepta 2,2 diyl diradical. Suitable lower alkyl groups include methyl, ethyl, n propyl, iso propyl and n butyl groups. Most suitably R1 and R2 both represent the same lower alkyl group or alternatively are linked. A particularly suitable acyclic value for R1 is the ethyl group. A particularly suitable acyclic value for R2 is the ethyl group. A preferred compound of the formula II is that wherein R1 and R2 are linked so that the C OR1 OR2 moiety is a 1,3 dioxacyclopenta 2,2 diyl diradical. The compounds of this invention may be used to treat vascular disorders in the same manner as sentoxyphilline is used. Thus for example they may be formulated into orally administrable unit dose forms that contain 100 500 mg of the compound of the formula II . Such unit dose forms may be administered 1 4 times daily in such a manner that the daily dose for a 70 kg adult will usually be in the range 300 1500 mg per day. Particuarly suitable unit dose forms are tablets and capsules. These forms will contain excipients in normal manner, for example lubricants such as magnesium stearate, disintegrants such as microcrystalline cellulose or sodium starch glycollate or the like. The present invention also provides a process for the preparation of the compositions containing a compound of the formula II , which process comprises bringing a compound of the formula II into association with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier The compositions of this invention may be fabricated by conventional methods of blending, compressing, filling and the like, for example those methods known as suitable for pentoxyphilline. The compounds of the formula II may be prepared by the method described in DDR Patentschrift 129911.Thus suitable methods comprise ketalising pentoxyfilline in conventional manner or reacting a salt of the 3,7 dimethylxanthine with CH3.C ORl . CH2 4.Cl or the like. Ketalisation of pentoxyphilline may be brought about by reaction with a diol in benzene in the presence of p toluene sulphonic and in conditions under which the water produced is removed. After about 1 day the benzene layer may be washed to remove excess diol and the benzene evaporated. Acyclic ketals may be prepared by the reaction with an orthoester at ambient temperature. In this form of the process a large excess of the orthoester may be used so that the orthoester also acts as solvent. A catalyst such as Amberlyst 15 may also be employed seePatwardhan et al., Synthesis, 1974, page 340 . Purifications of the initially produced product may be effected in conventional manner, for example by crystallisation from petroleum ether or the like. Compounds of the formula 11 other than the compound of the formula I and are novel, and as such form an aspect of the present invention.The compound of the formula I as a medicament for the promotion of blood flow through skeletal muscle is novel, and as such also forms an aspect of the present invention.The following Examples illustrate the preparation of the pharmaceutical compositions and the compounds of the present inventionExample 1Tablet Composition 2 Methyl 2 theobrominyl butyl 4 1,3 dioxalane, magnesium stearate and microcrystalline cellulose may be blended together and passed through a 40 mesh sieve us . The mixture may be tabletted on a conventional rotary machine to produce a batch of 5000 tablets of the following composition l Methyl 2 theobrominyl butyl 4 1,3 dioxalane 100 mgIlagnesium stearate 0.2 mgMicrocrystalline cellulose 98.8 mg Example 2Capsule Composition 2 Methyl 2 theobrominyl butyl 4 1, 3 dioxalane and magnesium stearate may be blended together and passed through a 40 mesh sieve US . The resulting mixture may be filled into two part hard gelatin capsules to produce a batch of 5000 of the following composition 2 Methyl 2 theobrominyl butyl 4 1,3 dioxolane 200 mgMagnesium stearate 0.2 m Demonstration of Preparation 1 5 nvohexyl 3, i dimethylxanthine 10.2 g , benzene l8Oml andl,2 ethandiol 5.1 ml were refluxed with p toluenesulphonic acid 10 mg . After three hours the reaction was complete. The reaction water had been collected in a water separator.The reaction mixture was washed several times with a solution of sodium carbonate and water and then dried over sodium sulphate, filtered and evaporated to dryness under reduced pressure.The residue was recrystallized from ethyl acetate to give 2 methyl 2 theobrominylbutyl 4 1,3 dioxalane 5.9 g in the form of a white powder, melting point 93 0C. The structure was confirmed by NMR spectroscopy and elemental analysis. Illustration of Pharmacological EffectivenessNethodology Cats of either sex were anaesthetized by i.p.injection of urethane chloralose 120 60 mg kg . The intraduodenal i.d. administration of compounds was conducted by means of a plastic catheter which was inserted into the duodenum following midline incision at the abdominal cavity.i pO2 measurementsMeasurement of muscle surface P02 The skin above the measuring site 3 4 mm in diameter was removed and one multiwire surface electrode Eschweiler, Kiel was placed on the gastrocnemius muscle of each hindlimb. The femol al artery in one hindlimb was ligated in order to induce ischaemia. Muscle temperature was controlled by means of a thermocouple Ellab, Copenhagen . The electrode curren. was measured every 6 to 8 s and collected for periods of 4 min Heaslett Packard programmable data logger system 3051 A . After each period, mean value and standard deviation was calculated.ii Skeletal muscle contractilityAfter dissection of the skin of the calf muscles, the sciatic nerve was cut about 3 cm proximal to the knee.The tendon of the calf muscles was cut and connected with an isometric force transducer SWENA, SG 3 . ln order to maintain constant differences and a resting tension of 100 p in cats and 25 p in rats, the hincllir,t was fixed at the tibia by means of a clamp. Direct stimulation of the muscles consisted of square wave pulses of 4 msec duration at a frequency of 2 Hz and at a voltage 50 V in cats.In order to keep the muscles wet. and at a normal temperature, the liluscies were continuously superfused with 0.9 w v NaCl solution 38 C Fenroral blood flow was restricted by a graded occlusion of the artery leading to a reduction of contractility by ca. 30 o . After having reached a constant level of the contraction force, the appropriate vehicle NaCl orMethocel was injected, followed by the test substance.Results obtained with 2 Lhyl 2 theobrominyl butyl 4 1,3 dioxalane i pO2 measurelrentsEMI8.1 tb dosage SEP hypoxic SEP tissue SEP normoxic SEP tissue tb mg kg SEP n tb SEP Cs SEP pO2 SEP E SEP Cs SEP pO2 SEP E tb SEP Torr SEP Torr SEP Torr SEP Torr tb SEP Torr SEP Torr SEP Torr SEP Torr tb SEP 12.5 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 3.7 SEP 3.7 SEP 1 SEP 4.8 SEP 4.8 tb ii skeletal muscle contractilityEMI8.2 dosage tb SEP mg kg SEP n SEP increase SEP of SEP contractility tb i,d. SEP SEP of SEP initial SEP values tb SEP 12.5 SEP 2 SEP SEP 40.0 SEP SEP 18.2 tb control values Methocel O 0 n number of animals C significance coefficient number of measuring sites with significant S pO2 increase per total number of measuring sites mean p02 increase in experiments with significant PO2 increase Torr E efficiency index Cs X Torr Control values E between 0.1 and 1.2 Torr i.d. intraduodenal administration of a suspension in Methocel .No toxic effects were observed at the above test dosages.