# Human tissue plasminogen activator and recombinant DNA compounds.

## Abstract
A human tissue plasminogen activator, and analogues thereof, which are the product of expression of recombinant DNA in yeast. The products are useful as fibrinolytic agents.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. t PA having selected glycosylation. 2. t PA when expressed by yeast. 3. A t PA according to Claim 2 wherein the yeast is Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 4. A circular recombinant DNA compound of formula XXXEMI58.1 wherein the repeated alphabetic sequences the number of repetitions of which is arbitrarily depicted in said formula therein represent the following the P region comprises nucleotides whose sequence contains a yeast promoter and n pre prot signals consisting essentially of the pre pro signals from the MEu1 gene the T region comprises nucleotides whose sequence containsDNA for the synthesis of t PA the H region comprises the nucleotide whose sequence contains the 3 end of the ADHI gene the A region comprises the nucleotides whose ordered codons contain the URA3 gene the R region comprises nucleotides whose sequence contains a REPIII and replication origin from the 2 yeast plasmid. 5. A compound of Claim 4 wherein the T region does not contain the 3 end untranslated region of the DNA for the synthesis of t PA. 6. A yeast cell or cell line whose expressed genetic material comprises a DNA compound of Claim 4. 7. A cell or cell line according to Claim 8 wherein the DNA compound of Claim 4 expresses t PA. 8. A method of producting t PA which comprises culturing the cell line according to Claim 7.

## Description
This invention relates to a human tissue plasminogen activator t PA and analogues thereof, and to recombinant DNA rDNA compounds. The invention relates also to yeasts having the reccmbinant compounds therein. The e t PA and its analogues can have fibrinolytic activity, and are thus suitable for the treatment of diseases having an underlying etiology known to benefit fran this activity. Wilson et al, Cancer Research 40 March 1980 933 7, report a t PA from Bowes melanoma cell. Additional information regarding the same t PA quickly followed. See EP A 0041766 Rijken et al, J.Biol. Chem. 256 13 10 July 1981 7635 41 Rijken et al, J. Biol.Chem. 257 6 25 March 1982 2920 5 Matsuo et al, Thrombos. Harostas. Stuttgart 45 2 1981 225 9 WeImar et al, The Lancet Nov. 7, 1981 1018 20 Korninger et al, Thrombos. Haemostas. Stuttgart 45 3 1981 561 5 662 5 Opdenakker et al, Eur. J.Biol. 1982 269 72 Korninger et al, J. Clin. Invest. 69 March 1982 573 580 Edlund et al, J. Clink Invest. 80 Jan. 1983 349 352 Gronow et al, Trends in Biotechnology 1 1 1983 26 29 Pennica et al, Nature 301 20 Jan. 1983 214 21 and Bergmann et al,Science 220 10 June 1983 . EP A 0093619 hereinafter referred to as the GenentechApplication discloses i E. coli K12 strain 294, AIOC No. 31446, which is a transformant having a recombinant DNA compound encoding for a t PA ii E. coli K12 strain W3110 transformed by rDNA, ATTCNo. 27325, from which extracts of a t PA are prepared for the assay of fibrinolytic activity, i.e. a recombinant DNA compound and iii DHFR CHO KI ATCC CL 61 cells transformed for amplification, also expressing a t PA, viz. a rDNA nucleotide encoding for a t PA. The given deposits are not needed to obtain cDNA encoding for t PA of the present invention. The following description discloses a gene isolation process, frcm among the processes known in the art, to be applied to the Bowes melanaa cell, for obtaining the recombinant DNk compound encoding for a t PA. The Bowes melanoma cell is commonly available to the public. All of the above noted disclosures to rDNA encoding ror a t PA provide cDNA useful to prepare the novel t PA of the present invention.The novel t PA of the present invention is characterized by a difference in glycosylation from t PA previously disclosed in the above noted references. That is, the nature and extent or glycosylation of the t PA of the present invention is different frau t PA known heretofore either t PA prepared by recombinant techniques or t PA in any naturally occurring forum. t PA is a complex protein which has a large number of cysteine residues. Some of these residues are involved in the formation or specific disulphise bridges perhaps. forming parts or complex domains or the protein. This means that tor t PA to be active it must fold properly. Experience with high level expression of some mammalian cells in E. coli has shown that the cytoplasmic environment is too reducing for these proteins to fold properly. See Cabilly, S. et al., Proc. Nat l. Acad. Sci. USA, vol. 81, pp. 3273 77 1984 . Thus, although the references above provide examples of t PA there is no basis tor finding the novel active t PA of the present invention in these references. The novel t PA of the present invention provides the high activity of previously known t PA, however, it is a product of expression in yeast. So such novel t PA is not within the teachings of previous disclosures. Specifically1 the present invention provides the MFa1 signal sequences to produce an active novel t PA product. Such signal sequences sometimes referred to as pre prgn portion are not suggested by the prior art as now found in the present invention. The MFal gene is available to the public by disclosures of Singh A. et al., SaccharomycesCerevisiae Contains Two Discrete Genes Coding for the a factor Pheromone ,Nucleic Acids Research, vol. 11, No. 12, pp. 4049 63 1983 and ofKurjan, J. et al., Structure of a Yeast Pheromone Gene MFa A Putative a Factor Precursor Contains Four Tandem Copies of Mature a Factor ,Cell, vol. 30, pp. 933 43 1982 .Its uses are qisclosed by Merryweather, J. P. et al., a Factor Promoter and Processing Signals Direct RegulatedSynthesis and Secretion of Authentic Heterologous Proteins . and SinghA. et al. a Factor Gene and the Synthesis and Secretion of Mammalian Proteins in Yeasty in Abstracts of the August, 1983 meeting on MolecularBiology of Yeast. Singh et al. suggested fusion of a 1230 bp DNA fragment, that contains 960 bp of MFa1 61 flanking DNA and the sequence coding for the pre protl portion of the a factor to the mammalian genes for human interferons al and Y, bovine interferons al andHSA, or IGF.But no suggestion is found which makes obvious the MFal signal sequences of the present inventions In fact, no previous disclosure provides an enabling method for the expression of active t PA in yeast.It is now found, that t PA activity of the present invention is detected only from the yeast cells transformed with plasmids carrying the tPA gene and the activity is plasminogen dependent. Transformation of yeast protoplasts was first accomplished byHinnen et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sc. USA, vol. 75, 1929 1933. However, due to a lack of detail in the published literature, the present invention now shows the transformation of yeast with high efficiency. Particularly, the present invention allows movement of plasmid DNA from E. coli to yeast using crude DNA preparations. Such high efficiency of transformation permits cloning by direct selection for a marker in yeast instead of cloning in E. coli first. Generally, the nomenclature and appropriate general laboratory procedures required in this application can be found in Maniatis,T. et al., Molecular Cloning a Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory , Cold Spring Harbor, New York, 1982.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The present invention provides novel t PA, recombinant DNA compounds, and yeast transformed by rDNA compounds. Additionally, the present invention provides methods for the preparation of the novel t PA, rDNA compounds and yeast transformed by rDNA compounds. The rDNA compounds comprising segments of DNA. For example, the rDNA compounds may be nucleotides in the rorm of a cassette which provides a promoter, pre pro or signal sequences, or in the alternative, a cassette which provides a replication origin, a selectable marker and a yeast gene 3 end useful in the construction of either a shuttle vector or expression vector for yeast. Additionally, the rDNA compounds may be the vectors. The methods relate to a yeast transformed to produce t PA. The rDNA compounds may have nucleotides containing sequences from E. coli or be prepared without such nucleotides by appropriate restriction and then ligation as required to complete plasmid formation. Thus, the plasmid prepared in this way is a vector solely for use in yeast. The active t PA expressed by yeast of the present invention is found intracellular, i.e., within the cytoplasm and either in the cell wall, i.e., perlplasmlc space or in the extracellular fluid.however, it. is not yet known whether the active t PA material found in the extra cellular fluid is excreted by the yeast or results from lysis of some of the cells. Further, the invention involves DNA compounds from the selection of nucleotide sequences above and plasmids and vectors not hlthXertoknown for expression solely in yeast. Greater stability or the vectors for expressing t PA in yeast can be assured by means to provide a plasmid of yeast origin only. Finally, the invention includes yeast transformed for expression or t PA. It will be appreciated from the disclosure to follow, the rDNA compounds comprising nucleotides encoding for t PA of the invention can be put in E. coli and produced in large amounts. Similar procedures can be used in yeast to amplify the rDNA compounds. Transformations of yeast provides expression of novel t PA. The novel t PA is useful as produced in the yeast host. Appropriate derivatization or modification or t PA genes may be used herein to provide analogs for similar use in compositions. Methods for use of novel t PA or its analogs may be as provided by the Genentech Applications. It will be appreciated rrox the foregoing that a basic aspect of this invention is the provision of a rDNA compound which is characterized by a pre pro segment from an MFa1 gene and a gene encoding for t PA for use in cloning in bacteria or yeast and expression in yeast.Thus, the invention includes the rDNA compound comprising A Nucleotides whose sequence comprises the pre pro portion of an More gene and a segment encoding for expression of human tissue plasminogen t PA or analog thereof B Nucleotides whose sequence comprises a promoter, the prepro signal sequences of an MFai gene, a yeast selectable marker, a 2 yeast plasmid fragment consisting of replication origin and cisacting sequence consisting of REPIII and the 3 end of the yeast ADHI gene C Nucleotides whose sequence consists essentially of base pairs encoding for a portion of t PA wherein the sequence is the fragment of a plasmid having the structure pTPAHI with HindIII SStI terminal sites D Nucleotides whose sequence consists essentially of base pairs encoding for a portion of t PA wherein the sequence is the fragment of a plasmid having the structure pTPAHI with a SStI Sau3A terminal sites E a plasmid comprising 1 the nucleotides whose sequence contains one or more of a yeast promoter and the pre pro signal sequences of the MFal gene, a fragment of the 2 yeast plasmid consisting of REPIII and replication origin, a yeast selectable marker, and a fragment consisting of the 3 end of the yeast ADHI gene and 2 a nucleotide whose aequence consists essentially of base pairs encoding for t PA or an analog thereof as described hereinafter and further the invention includes F Yeast transformed with a plasmid comprising nucleotides whose sequence contains 1 a yeast promoter, 2 the pre pro signal sequences of the MFai gene, 3 a fragment of the 2 yeast plasmid consisting of REPIII and replication origin, 4 a yeast selectable marker, 5 a fragment consisting of the 3 end of the yeast ADHI gene and 6 a fragment consisting essentially of base pairs encoding for t PA or an analog thereof. G t PA or an analog thereof having selected glycosylation H t PA or an analog thereof when expressed by yeast I t PA or an analog thereof when expressed by yeast transformed by a plasmid comprising 1 a yeast promoter and the pre pro signal sequences of the MFa1 gene, 2 a fragment of the 2 yeast plasmid consisting of REPIII and replication origin 3 a yeast selectable marker, 4 a fragment consisting of the 3 end of the yeast ADHI gene and 5 a DNA sequence consisting essentially of base pairs encoding for t PA or an analog thereof. More particularly the invention includes a circular recombinantDNA compound of formula XXX EMI6.1 wherein the repeated alphabetic sequences the number of repetitions or which is arbitrarily depicted in said formula therein represent the following the p region comprises nucleotides whose sequences contains a yeast promoter and pre pro signals consisting essentially of the pre pro signals from the MFa1 gene the T region comprises nucleotides whose sequence containsDNA for the synthesis of t PA the H region comprises the nucleotide whose sequence contains the 3 send of the ADHI gene the A region comprises the nucleotides whose ordered codons contain the URA 3 gene the R region comprises nucleotides whose sequence contains a REPIII and replication origin from the 2 yeast plasmid. Each of the above described compounds of the invention may also include the nucleotides containing a sequence rrom the E. coli plasmid pBR322 that carries the Icanamycin or ampicillln resistance gene Apr and a replication origin. Advantageously, the p TPA plasmid may be cut at XbaI and SalI sites, then ligated to produce a plasmid consisting essentially of yeast sequences in addition to the gene encoding tor t PA. The t PA gene from previous disclosures or as prepared in the following material may be used in the present invention. It is preferred to modify the 3 untranslated by removing some or all of about 250 nucleotides. However, such modification is not required. The preferred promoter of the present invention is the promoter of the MFal gene, however, other promoters which may be used are alcohol dehydrogenaseI ADHI , pyruvate kinase PYK , triosphosphate isomerase TPI , invertase gene SUC1 , and the like. The preferred yeast selectable marker of the present invention is URA3 but other markers which may be used are HIS3, TRPI, LEU2, and the like. The preferred yeast to be used as the host cell in the present invention is Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The t PA or analogs thereof of the present invention may be in a composition in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Use of t PA or analogs thereof prepared by the present invention is for the treatment of thrombolytic diseases in humans. The dosage form, unit dosage and dosage ranges are within that taught in the above cited references or are within the reasonable skill of those treating the diseases. Generally, the process of the present invention may be accomplished as follows A compound, either as disclosed in the references cited above or as disclosed in the present application, having an rDNA gene encoding for t PA which may be referred to as a plasmid is generally cut at the BglII and BalI sites to excise sequences for use in the further processes of the present invention. See Chart 1 and following discussion therefor for a specific example. However, although the preferred cut at the 3 untranslated end of the t PA gene according to the present process is BalI, the cut further and preferred modification at the 3 end as disclosed hereinafter is not critical. In Chart 1, TT ITTT denotes the essential region or the gene coding for the protein t PA and UUUU shows the 3 untranslated region which is essentially excised following the initial BalI cut by manipulations in which the cut is ligated with SalI linkers and then cut with BglII.The remaining manlpulations wherein the pTPA SalI has its ends partially filled and so on are merely to prepare cutting sites compatible with a yeast plasmid prepared later. More or less, the 3 untranslated end may remain as part of the compound to be used to transform yeast for t PA expression. For example, the cut at the 3 end may also be made at the BglII site. Construction of the plasmid PGG4OO is accomplished in a manner within the skill of the ordinary artisan so the well known and readily available pBR322 is changed to carry kanamycin resistance rather than tetracycline resistance. Kanamycin resistance gene is readily available. See plasmid pmL21 of the present disclosure or the Maniatis et al. refer ence above . Again, a specific example within the discussion is shown in Chart 5. Particularly note the showing of Kmr denoting kanamycin resistance and Tcr denoting tetracycline resistance. Variations of the plasmid PGG400 construction may be within the present disclosure if the essential addition of kanamycin resistance to pBR322 is accomplished. The above prepared plasmid PGGOO may be cut in a manner shown in Chart 6 and specific discussions hereinafter. The sites of the cuts are chosen because the XhoI sites may be filled to provide a site which is compatible for ligation to HincII. of course, the cut at PuvII site produces a normally blunt end. Such a PvuII site llgates to the filled BamHI site. It can be readily seen that the cuts allow for a minimum of manipulations with the added advantage of the selection for a preferred orientation of the fragment having the ends HincII and BamHI. Such selection allows later upstream additions of rDNA having the proper orientation relative to the HincII BamHI fragment. The HincII BamHI fragment is the 3 end of the ADHI gene of the pADHBC which is publicly available or can be made by procedures of a later cited reference herein. Other cuts in the PGG400 and pADHBC plasmid may be made by other enzymes at other sites but such cuts would require more manipulation both in the procedure shown in Chart 6 and in later procedures adding rDNA. However, alternative cuts producing the desired result may require more manipulations than shown in the examples here. Now, generally Chart 4 shows a specific process for preparing a novel intermediate compound i.e., plasmid pYRep31B of the present invention. This chart shows the preferred cuts to provide HindIlI sites both which excise th complete URA3 gene denoted as AAAAAA and a fragment denoted by RRRRRR spanning the REPIII and replication origin and which provide the HindIII ends needed for later rDNA insertion of the AAAARRR sequence into a compound useful as a plasmid for expressing the novel t PA in yeast. Now the product plasmids of Chart 6 and Chart 4 are used to prepare a compound wherein the rDNA fragment having the AAAARRR sequence is inserted into a plasmid having an rDNA sequence having the ADHI 3 end. Although the RRR fragment is not specifically shown in Chart 7 the fragment is within the cuts or the process described. The SphI cut of XI2 is selected because it is easier to eliminate HindIII base pairs by modification. Alternate sites for cutting the pYRep31B plasmid may be used, however, the cuts at the HindIII site are preferred to avoid bringing unnecessary pBR322 sequences into the product plasmid. At this time, the process of the present invention inserts the EcoRl. HindIII portion of the MFal gene in Chart 8 into the plasmid prepared in Chart 7. The More gene is well known and is readily available to the public or can be obtained from p alpha 1 as found in a site in the subsequent description of Chart 7. The HindIII sites resulting from the cuts in Chart 8 are critical in the present preferred process and although the EcoRI site also shown in cuts of Chart 8 is preferred variations of this cut are possible. For example, a cut at the XbaI site may be made instead of the cut at EcoRI, however, such a site requires filled ends and further modification making regeneration necessary arter manipulation. Finally, the cuts providing HindIII sites of plasmid p l ADHt are critical because of the construction or pal ADHt. The filled ends of the XhoI site may or may not be critical but these are preferred to obtain the final ligation to obtain the plasmid which can express in yeast the novel t PA of the present invention. Processes to allow variations of the promoter in combination with the pre pro signals of the MFal gene although both shown as PPPPPPPP in Chart 9 are suggested in the speciric embodiment. The preferred sequences of the pre pro signals from the MFul gene are as described in the following preferred embodiments. However, alteration of the pre pro signals are possible. All starting material for the practice of the present invention are available or can be made by known processes. Variations within the skill of an artisan which provide processes to prepare the above noted novel t PA or rDNA compounds and yeast having rDNA compounds therein are also the present invention.DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS Although the following description provides the most preferred practice or the invention it is not meant to be limiting. Conventions used in representations or plasmids in the present invention, though peculiar to the present application, are merely representations meant to be synonymous with conventional representations Because plasmids may be said to be circular DNA, for convenience they are represented in the literature as circles. The present specification employs an alternative representation of plasmids as rectangles whose horizontal sides represent DNA nucleotides of the plasmid and whose two vertical sides each represeFt a regular phosphodiester bond which links together the bridging nucleotides represented on the horizontal sides. Further, the directional arrows which are parallel to the horizontal sides indicate the transcription for the portion of the plasmid so represented.In reading the rectangular representations of plasmids compared to a circular representation, the left side of the rectangle most conveniently will correspond to the uppermost point on the circle. Thus, the right side of the rectangle will correspond to the lowermost point on the circle. Vertical lines on either or the horizontal sides of the rectangular representation correspond to cleavage sites for restriction endonucleases or the location of the initiation or termination of a specified nucleotide sequence.Such sites are labelled in the conventional fashion. The nucleotide sequences may also be further characterized by arbitrary alphabetical characters which appear above the uppermost horizontal side and below the lowermost horizontal sides. The alphabetical characters are then appropriately defined at the bottom or each chart. One advantage of the system for representing plasmids as utilized herein ia that linear segments of DNA are depicted exactly as for the circular plasmids except that one or both of the vertical sides Qr the rectangle are deleted. When both vertical sides are omitted, the DNA will be represented by a single horizontal line whose direction of replication may be separately indicated by horizontal directional arrows.DESCRIPTION OF THE SPECIFIC EMBODIMENTSI. EXPRESSION OF HUMAN TISSUE PLASMINOGEN ACTIVATOR t PA IN THE YEAST SACCHAROMYCES CEREVISIAE. A. MATERIALS AND METHODS 1. Yeast strains and growth media The yeast strain YNN27 a, trpl 289, ura3 52, gal2 which can be obtained from Stanford University is used for most of the work. Yeast minimal medium YMM consists of 0.67S Bacto yeast nitrogen base without amino acids and 2 glucose. The medium is supplemented with tryptophan 50 100 g ml for YNN27 and with histidine for LL20. YNN27 carrying some of the plasmids is grown on minimal medium supplemented with tryptophan 50 100 g ml and casamino acids at 0.5 . This medium is called YMMCA. For growth on plates, agar is added to the medium to 2 . Most or the plasmid constructions are done and propagated in the E. coli strains HB101 and MC1061. 2. Manipulations of the t PA gene The t PA gene as disclosed in EP application 0041766 or as described hereinafter is assembled in the plasmid p TPAHI which is a starting material in the present invention see Chart 1 . Specificially, pTPASalI is prepared herein as shown in Chart 1 by cutting plasmid pTPA with BalI according to suppliers NEB specifications in a 40 ul reaction for 6 hours. Restricted DNA is precipitated with ethanol, washed once with 70 ethanol, vacuum dried and resuspended in a 20 l ligation mixture containing 50 mM Tris, pH 8.0, 20 mM DTT, 0.25 mM ATP, 50 pg ml gelatin, 4 mM Spermidine, 1 unit of T11 ligase Boehringer Mannheim and 0.20 tig of SalI linkers. Ligation is continued for 16 hours. Ligated DNA is precipitated and used to transform HB 101. The trans iormants are screened by the minilysate procedure for the presence or a plasmid with a SalI site. The intermediate plasmid called pTPASalI is purified on a CsC1 gradient. Then, however, the t PA gene is modified to obtain the plasmid pTPAH. The modifications of the 5 end to the t PA gene are carried out in the plasmid pTPA SalI.The pTPA SalI DNA is restricted with BglII. First, the 5 end BglII site see chart 3 for a more detailed map of the terms used in discussing the modification is modified such that when inserted in the Hindlil site made blunt with the polymerase described in Chart 1 the reading frame is in phase with that of the MFo1 pre pro sequences and also the Hindlil site is regenerated. Then, the approximately 250 nucleotides of the 3 untranslated region are removed to bring the yeast ADHI polyadenylation site, added as part of the plasmid used to transform yeast in a subsequent description, closer to the termination codon of the t PA gene.It is believed the proximate relationship of the polyadenylation and the termination codon of the t PA gene improves the level or expression of t PA in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The map of the t PA gene in Chart 3 shows an outline of various regions. The BglII site AGA TCT is at the juncture of the pre and mature sequence regions of t PA. The first codon in the mature region sequence is TCT serine . Restriction of t PA DNA with BglII will leave a sticky end GATC. If this end is partially filled by putting in bases complementary to C and T followed by removal of GA with single strand specific nucleases like S1 or mung bean nuclease it can be blunt end ligated to a filled in HindIIf site. Thus, ligation will restore the Hindlil site as well as retain the correct translational phase between MFal and t PA sequences. The plasmid pTPA SalI has a HindIII site upstream from the BglII site of t PA gene as shown in II of Chart 1. Specifically, the modifications are as follows The plasmid pTPASalI is cut at the BglII site. The cut DNA is incubated with Tq polymerase in the presence of dGTP and dATP for 30 minutes at 370 C. DNA is precipitated and resuspended in a low pH buffer used for mung been nuclease treatment. It consists of 30 mM NaOAc pH 4.6 , 250 mM NaCl, 1mM ZnCl2, 5 glycerol. The mung bean nuclease treatment used exactly as described by Rosenberg et al., in Methods in Enzymology, 101, pp. 123130. The nuclease is inactivated by phenol extraction and the DNA is again precipitated, resuspended in HindlIl restriction buffer and cut with HindIII. The sticky ends are filled in using the polymerase rollowed by ligation of DNA. Ligated DNA is used to transform E. coltHB101 and the plasmids are screened using HindIII as the diagnostic cut. A number of plasmids in which the Hindlil site is regenerated are isolated. One of these plasmids called pTPAH is further characterized by restriction enzyme analysis. Subsequently, the pTPAHI plasmid is used to provide a tragment which is then treated to modify the 3 end of the t PA gene. The desired result is to get rid of the long untranslated region at the 3 end of the gene. First, an EcoRI SalI fragment or pTPAH is purified which is then cut with Sau3A shown in Chart 3 . The sticky ends are filled using T4 polymerase according to the above analogous procedure and the DNA is again restricted with the enzyme SStI see Charts 2 and 9 . A 389 base pair fragment is isolated on a gel. This fragment is ligated with two others to construct a vector called palADHt TPA as described in subsequent material and shown in Chart 9.The manlpulation of the 3 end of t PA leave only 36 base pairs from the untranslated region instead of the approximately 250 present in the pTPA SalI plasmid. 3. Construction of the Yeast Expression Vector pai ADHt. i. A URA3 REPIII orl Cassette in pYRep 31B First, a fragment spanning the REPIII and replication origin sequences from the 2 plasmid is cloned into the SmaI site of URA3 gene in plasmid Y1P31. The 2 plasmid and the Y1P31 plasmid are well known and available to the public. For information on the 2 plasmid see Broach, J. R., Molecular Biology of the Yeast Sacoharomyces cerevisiae Life Cycle and Inheritance , pp. 445 470. The REPIII region is discussed by Jayraman, M. et al., in The Yeast Plasmid 2 circle encodes components required for its high copy propagation , Cell, vol. 34, pp. 95 104 1983 and also by Kikuchi, Y. in Cell, vol. 35, pp. 487 l193 1983 . This first cloning of the larger fragment is shown in Chart 11. The next step is to position the URA3 REPIII ori cassette in the plasmid pADHt. ti. Construction of the plasmid pADHt The starting plasmid for these constructions is PGG400 approximately 11.0 Kb in size. Its construction is shown in Chart 5 and is accomplished by methods well known in the art from two plasmids readily available to the public. Specifically, the gene coding for tetracycline Tc resistance in pBR322 is replaced by a fragment of DNA from pML21 which codes for resistance to Kanamycin Km . pmL21 is cut with PuvII.The PuvII cut DNA when ligated to a filled EcoRI site regeneratesEcoRI site after ligation. Plasmid pBR322 is cut with EcoRI and PvuII and the EcoRI site is filled wilth Tq DNA polymerase. This DNA is then ligated to the PvuII cut pmL21 and transformed into E. coli followed by selection for Kmr and Apr but Tcs clones. The selection gave PGGOO which was used as the starting plasmid to construct pADHt. First, the 3 end of yeast ADHI alcohol dehydrogenase I which is identified by Bennetzen, J. L. et al., J. Biol. Chem., vol. 257, pp. 3018 3025 1982 is inserted into a PvuII Xho I cut PGG1100 as follows. The 3 end of the ADHI gene is inserted by first restricting the plasmid pADHBC in a manner analogous to that of Williamson, V. M., et al., Nature, vol. 283, pp. 219 16 1980 and Williamson, V. M. et al. Cell, vol. 23, pp. 605 14 1981 with HincII and BamHI followed by tilling the ends to obtain the insert and then by ligating with the cut PGG400. Only the end fragments when inserted in the appropriate orientation regenerate the BamHI and Xhol sites.A pADHt which carries the 3 end of the ADHI gene is thus isolated from the putative candidates.Construction of pADHt is depicted in Chart 6. The authenticity of the cloned ADH 3 end is confirmed by restriction enzyme analysis and by sequencing. The pADHt is modified by changing the BamHI site to Salt. This is done by restricting the DNA with BamHI followed by insertion by ligation of an 8 mer SalI linker into the filled BamHI site. iii. URA3 REPIII ori Cassette in the Plasmid pADHt A HindIII fragment approximately 2.4 Kb from the plasmid pYRep31ss above is purified. The fragment is then inserted into the SphI site of plasmid ADHt after making the SphI site ends blunt in a manner analogous to that described above to make ends blunt. The SphI site is located in the 3 end fragment of ADHI previously cloned in pADHt.of the two possible orientations, the one with the clockwise transcription is isolated. The URA3 REPIII ori fragment is a cassette useful in expressing t PA in yeast. The method of positioning the URA3 REPIIIori cassette in pADHt to obtain the plasmid pADHt REPIII is shown in Chart 7. iv. Final Construction Step to Plasmid p alpha 1 ADHt The construction of ptzi ADHt is completed by replacing the EcoRIHindIII fragment in pADHt REPIII with the EcoRI HindIII fragment of the MFa1 gene in plasmid p alpha 1. The plasmid p alpha 1 can be obtained by following the instructions in the above noted references by Singh,A. et al. and Kurjan, J. et al. The EcoRI HindIII fragment of MEal brings in the promoter and the signal sequences required for secretion of the t PA expressed in yeast. The plasmid pADHt REPIII is a useful intermediate in terms of constructing expression vectors, for example, the EcoRI HindlIl or EcoRI Smal fragment can be replaced with any desired DNA fragment carrying promoter sequences.Alternatively, it can provide a SalI XhoI fragment carrying a replication origin, a selectable marker and yeast gene 3 end. This construction is shown in Chart 8. The methods required by use of the intermediate plasmid pADHtREPIII to construct expression vectors are described herein or are known to the ordinarily skilled artisan. 4. Construction of the plasmid palADHt TPA Finally, purified fragments are prepared as follows. Plasmid pai ADHt is cut at the XhoI site and the ends are filled in. Then the DNA sequence of cut plasmid pal ADHt is cut at the HindIII site.The larger of the resulting fragment is purified. The result is shown as III in Chart 9. Next, two fragments are prepared from the plasmid pTPAH. The first fragment results from cuts with HindIII SStI. The second fragment results from euts with Sau3A SStI. Each of these are shown as II and II , respectively in Chart 9. The Sau3A end is filled to make a blunt end. The fragments shown as III , II and II are all purified.Finally, the three purified fragments are ligated. The blunt endSau3A ligated with filled in Xho site regenerates the XhoI site.E. coli HBlOl is transformed with the ligated DNA and screened for the appropriate plasmid. palADHt TPA plasmid is thus isolated. A summary of the final procedure discussed here is shown in Chart 9. 5. Transformation of pai ADHt TPA into YNN27 Yeast cells are grown to an O.D.550 0.5 0.6 in YEPD 2 glucose, 2 peptone, lS yeast extract medium. Depending on the number of samples for transformation, 20 to 120 ml cultures are used. A 20 ml culture is usually sufficient for a single transformation. The culture is usually started from a rresh overnight culture grown by aeration. The dilution from the overnight culture is such that the starting O.D.550 is around 0.1 to 0.15. Usually, yeast cultures suffer a lag in growth after dilution in fresh YEPD unadjusted pH 6.9 . The lag period is minimized or eliminated by preparing YEPD with pH adjusted from 5.5 to 5.6. Under these conditions, cultures are ready for harvesting in from 4 to 4.5 hours which is equivalent to about two doublings or cells. When the culture has reached the desired cells cells are harvested by sedimentation in the bench top Sorvall at room temperature. After decanting the supernatant, cells are washed once with 20 ml 0.8 1.O M Sorbitol solution buffered with Tris to pH 7.6. Sorbitol solutions are quite acidic and the pH varies with each batch. Many times, making the Sobitol solution 10 mM in Tris from a 1 M Tris stock solution, pH 7.6, may not bring up the pH.pH should be checked and adjusted ir need be. After washing, cells are suspended in the same solution, i.e., 0.8 1.0 M Sorbitol, usually in 10 20 ml volume. For cultures up to 50 ml starting volume, the cells are suspended in 10 ml of Sorbitol and for larger cultures, 20 ml of Sorbitol is used. Mercaptoethanol is added to 10 mM followed bg the addition of 390 units 15 pl of lyticase use 8 10 ul of enzyme if the starting culture is 50 ml or less . The cell lyticase mixture is incubated for 20 25 minutes at 300 C if LL20 is used, or for 2530 minutes if the strain NN27 is used. At the end of this period, cells are gently pelleted 2.5 K, 4 5 minutes in the bench top Sorvall.The protoplasted cells are washed twice with 10 ml volumes of o. 5 M MgC12, buffered with 10 mM Tris, pH 7.4 or 7.6. Resuspension of protoplasts should be gentle. After the washes, the protoplasts are suspended in concentrated form 0.2 ml for 20 ml cultures in a mixture containing 0.5 M MgC12, 25 mM CaC12, 10 mM Tris pH 8.3 and chilled on ice. Crude plasmid as a lysate from E. coli p alpha 1ADHt TPA in 1020 ijl volume or TE is added to and mixed well with the protoplasts.After a 15 minute incubation on ice, the protoplasts are transrerred to room temperature for 15 minutes. The protoplasts tend to settle to the bottom or the tube and should be resuspended once by gently rotating the tube. After the room temperature incubation, a 10 fold excess of 155 wt wt polyethylene glycol PEG 4000 solution, buffered with 10 mM sodium acetate NaAc , pH 5.5, and containing 25 mM CaCl2, is added to protoplasts. Protoplasts should be mixed thoroughly inPEG by rolling the tube while tilting it up and down. After a 1215 minute exposure to PEG, protoplasts are pelleted and resuspended in a medium containing 30 50S YEPD and 0.5 M MgC12, following removal of PEG.After appropriate dilutions in the same medium, protoplasts in 0.1 ml volume are mixed with 8 10 ml of 3S agar containing .81M sorbitol, 0.7S yeast nitrogen base, pH 5.4, 1 YEPD and other ingredients amino acids, etc. as required, and spread on the same agar medium except that the agar concentration is 2 . Also, the pH of the bottom agar layer is 6.5 and it does not contain 1 YEPD. If the strain has other auxotrophic requirements, i.e., requirements other than the selectable marker, the appropriate ingredients should be added at 2.5 times the amount normally required by intact yeast cells. Plates are incubated at 300 C for 2 4 days. It should be mentioned that part of the problem in protoplast transformation is the shear mechanics of handling the protoplasts and other materials. For example, 3 agar is difficult to transfer around. Normally, it is advised to prepare the melted agar and distribute it to tubes which are kept at 500 C in a water bath. Preferred for small amounts such as handled here it is better to add the protoplasts to the agar kept at 500 C and then mix by rotating the tube between both hands and spread quickly on a plate. Using the above protocol, transformants or pa1ADHt TPA are obtained. Due to the number of steps and other variables, there is considerable variation in the results from experiment to experiment. However, the procedure is reasonably reproducible. A method by which yeast cells can be transformed without making protoplasts has recently been developed by a Japanese group see Kurian, J. et al. 1982 Cell, vol. 30, pp. 933 993 . This method of transforming yeast cells is also contemplated by the present invention for obtaining transformants of p x1ADHt TPA. 6. Assay for t PA activity t PA acitivity in yeast extracts and in the growth medium is monitored by measuring the cleavage of the chromogenic substrate HDVal leu lys NH 4 nitrocyclohexane Halena Laboratories by plasmin.The reaction mixture 2 ml consists of 1.7 ml Tris bur er, pH 7.5, 100 trl of plasminogen stock solution in 1 CU unit ml , 100 p1 of 6 x 10 3 M substrate stock solution, and 50 100 p1 of sample to be assayed for t PA activity. The reaction is monitored at 370 C over a 00 6O0 minute period at 905 nm in a Beckman DU 7 spectrophotometer. 7. Preparation of yeast extracts Yeast cell extracts for measuring t PA activity are prepared as follows. Cells are grown in 20 100 ml or YMM or YMMCA medium supplemented with the appropriate nutrients. The growth period ranges from 4 to 24 hours. After harvesting the cells with a spin in the Sorvall centrifuge, the cell pellet is suspended in 1 ml or 10 mM Tris buffer, pH 7.5. Glass beads 0.5 mm in diameter are added to the cells until the level is 1 mm below the meniscus. Cells are lysed by vortexing over five one minute intervals. Cells are chilled for one minute on ice after every vortexing interval. Approximately 0.5 to 1.0 ml samples are taken out and cleared or the cell debris by centrlRuging in the Eppendorf centrifuge for one minute. Samples, if not immediately used, are stored frozen at 20 C. t PA activity in the growth medium is monitored after spinning out the cells by a high speed centrifugation. B. RESULTS 1. Expression of active t PA in yeast One of the first objectives in the assay for t PA activity is to see whether the yeast cells produced any t PA activity when transformed with the plasmid pa1ADHt TPA. A number or criteria have to be satisfied for establishing the authenticity of the t PA activity produced in yeast. For example, it has to be ascertained that there is no endogenous plasmin like activity in yeast that would cleave the substrate or a t PA like activity that would activate plasminogen. In order to investigate all these possibtlities an experiment is set up in which t PA activity is monitored in the cell extracts in the presence or absence of plasminogen. Thus, assays were set up as follows A Cell extracts from YNN27 no plasmid substrate and with no plasminogen. B Cell extracts from YNN27 no plasmid substrate plasminogen. C Cell extracts from YNN27 pcrtADHt TPA substrate and with no plasminogen. D Cell extracts from YNN27 p alpha 1ADHt TPA substrate plasminogen. E Extracellular fluid from YNN27 p lADHt TPA culture substrate plasminogen.Results are consistent with a finding that a there are no endogenous t PA like plasminogen dependent or plasmin like activities in yeast, and b t PA activity is detected only in the extracts prepared rrom cells harboring the t PA gene containing plasmid p 1ADHt TPA. Experiments analyzing the time course of t PA synthesis are now conducted. A 120 ml YMMCA culture of YNN27 palADHt TPA is started by dilution of an overnight culture. Initial 0.D.550 is 0.2. The growth medium is supplemented with 100 pgXml of tryptophan. Twenty ml samples are withdrawn at 3 hour intervals. Extracellular fluid and cell extracts are monitored for t PA activity as described above in A. Materials and Methods. Assay results of cell extracts clearly show that the rate of t PA synthesis is about the same in the first 9 hours of growth if allowance is made for lower number of cells at earlier times. The highest amount of t PA synthesis is between 9 and 12 hours. After that time, there is a drop in the amount of tPA activity that is found in cell extracts.After 26 hours of growth, the amount of t PA activity drops to a very low level. This is presumably due to accelerated proteolytic degradation as the cells enter the stationary phase. The assay results for t PA activity in extracellular fluid show a much lower level. However, the assaying of extracellular fluid is for the activity in 100 l volume of a 20 ml sample, whereas the results of assaying of cell extracts are from a concentrated form.The activity in extracellular fluid is the highest in the 3 hour sample.II. ISOLATION OF A FULL LENGTH HUMAN TISSUE PLASMINOGEN ACTIVATOR cDNA t PA cDNA A. MATERIALS AND METHODS 1. Growth of Bowes Melanoma Cells Bowes represents an established cell line derived from a human spontaneous melanoma and is a girt of Dr. Daniel Rirkin of the NewYork University School of Medicine. Cells are cultured in Dulbecco sModified Eagle Medium Gibco supplemented with 10 retail bovine serum Gibco and 50 pg ml gentamycin Sigma in a humidified atmosphere at 370, using 95 air 5 CO2. Cells harvested for RNA preparation are grown to confluence in Falcon 150 cm2 flasks. 2. RNA Preparation RNA from Bowes melanoma cells is isolated essentially as described by Lizardi and Engelberg, and described herein on a per rlask 15 cm2 basis. See Lazardi, et al. Anal. Biochem., vol. 98, pp. 116122 1979 . Cells are washed twice with 25 ml of ice cold PBS and subsequently collected and lysed in 6 ml lysis buffer 2.4 SDS, 0.1M NaCl 7.5 mM EDTA 20 g ml polyvinyl sulfate 25 mM Tris base pH 7.35 . Flasks are rinsed with an additional 2.5 ml or lysis buffer, and the lysates are pooled. Sodium perchlorate is added to 1.4 M and the lysate is incubated at 500 C, agitating until clear 4 minutes .The viscosity of the solution is reduced by passing it twice through a 20 gauge needle. Nucleic acids are precipitated with 4 volumes of EPR NaClO4 saturated ethanol water and left at 40 for 60 minutes.The precipitate is collected by centrifugation in a Sorvall Superspeed centrifuge at 5,000 RPM for 15 minutes at 4 . The pellet is dissolved in 15 ml of a solution consisting of 25 mM Tris, pH 7.35 0.2S SDS 1 mM EDTA 0.2 M NaCl and nucleic acids are reprecipitated by adding 0.6 volumes Or isopropanol and incubating at 20 for 4 hours. The precipitate is collected as above, the pellet is dissolved in sterile distilled H20 2.5 ml per 150 cm2 flask NaCl is added to 0.3 M and the nucleic acids are precipitated with 2 volumes or ethanol overnight at 20 C.The precipitate is again collected as described and the pellet is dissolved in 10 mM Tris pH 7.4 1 mM EDTA 0.1 M NaCl and 0.1S SDS, phenol extracted, and EtOH precipitated. The nucleic acid pellet is dissolved to approximately 1 mg ml in DNase buffer 10 mMMES Sigma pH 5.5 0.1 M NaCl 5 mM MgC12 10 pg ml polyvinyl sulfate ,RNase free DNase Miles is added to 1.5 g ml and the solution is incubated at 300 for 20 minutes. Proteins are removed by extraction with an equal volume Or a phenol chloroform isoamyl alcohol mixture PCl is an equal volume of phenol added to a 24 1 mixture of chloro rorm isoamyl alcohol .Phases are separated by centrifugation and residual phenol is removed from the aqueous phase by extraction with an equal volume of chloroform isoamyl alcohol C 1 24 1 . Again the phases are separated and the RNA is ethanol precipitated. A typical yield from 10 150 cm2 rlasks grown to confluence is about 8 10 mg total RNA. 3 OdT Selection of polyA mRNA RNA is polyA enriched by passage over an oligodeoxythymidinecellulose OdT cellulose Collaborative Research column as described by Aviv Leder see Aviv, H. et al., Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci., vol. 69, pp. 1408 12 1972 . Briefly, 0.1 g of OdT Cellulose is packed in a 5 ml syringe and swelled with sterile, distilled H20. The column is equilibrated with 10 column volumes of 10 mM Tris buffer, pH 1 1 mM EDTA 0.5 SDS 0.5 M NaCl column equilibration buffer CEB . RNA is dissolved in 1 2 ml or 10 mM Tris base pH 7.4 1 mMEDTA and 0.5 SDS, heated to 65 tor 5 minutes, and diluted to 10 ml in CEB, bringing the final NaCl concentration to 0.5 M.The diluteRNA solution is passed over the OdT cellulose several times to assure maximum binding of polyA mRNA. Nonspeciiically bound RNA is washed off with fresh CEB 10 20 column volumes and the polyA RNA is eluted in 4 ml sterile distilled H20. NaCl is added to 0.3 M, 2 volumes of ethanol is added and the polyA mRNA is precipitated by incubation in a dry ice ethanol bath for 60 minutes, The precipitate is collected, dissolved in 0.5 ml sterile distilledH2O, C1 extracted, and reprecipitated all as described above. Typical yield from 10 150 cm2 flasks twice selected on separated OdT columns is 50 g polyA mRNA. 4. Sucrose Gradient Fractionation of polyA mRNA The polyA mRNA is fractionated by centrifugation through 1530 linear sucrose gradients prepared as follows. Sucrose ultrapure,BRL , is dissolved to either 15 . or 302 in 50 mM Tris base pH 7.4 0.1 M NaCl 0.1 SDS and 1 mM EDTA and deposited in a BioRad plexiglass conical gradient maker connected to a Buchler Auto Densi Flow ModelIIC peristaltic pump which allowed rormation of the gradient from bottom to top 30 1 5 . PolyA mRNA 300 pg dissolved in 200400 l or sterile distille d H20 is loaded onto the gradient and centrifuged in a Beckman SW41 Ti rotor at 35,000 RPM for 18 hours, 0.5 ml fractions are collected, again using the Buchler Auto Densi Flow Model lIC to harvest from top to bottom, connnected to a Gilson Micro fractionator Model FC80 K . Aliquots from each fraction is injected into Xenopus oocytes and translation products are assayed for plasminogen activator activity by the caseln agar plate method analogous to that described by Miskin,R. et al., Nuc. Acids Res. vol. 9, pp. 3355 63. Specifically, the tissue plasminogen activator t PA is assayed by observing the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin, a non speciric protease, which digests casein. The assay is performed as follows.0.5 ml of 8S casein, boiled, is mixed with 1 ml 2 x MBS and heated to 500 C. 3S agarose is melted and cooled to 500 C. 0.5 ml of the 3 agarose is added to the casein MBS and mixed by pipetting. 100 1 of 1 mg ml human plasminogen is added final concentration is 50 g ml with mixing and the material is poured into a 3.5 cm diameter plastic petri dish. The agarose solution is cooled to room temperature about 30 minutes . 2 mm diameter holes in the agarose are cut withBiorad cutter gel punches. The holes are made just before use and the wells are filled with MBS. One or two oocytes which have been injectedwith PA RNA at least 6 hours prior to assay are added to each well. Incubation is in a humidified dish for 12 24 hours.Clear zones of casein hydrolysis are readily observed. Fractions enriched for t PA mRNA are precipitated by addition of 2 volumes of ethanol and incubating on dry ice for 1 hour. Precipitates are collected by centrifugation at room temperature in an Eppendorf table top microfuge, dissolved in sterile, distilled H20, pooled, and reprecipitated. This t PA enriched polyA mRNA is used to generate cDNA for cloning. 5. cDNA Synthesis All of these reactions are assembled on ice. A First Strand Synthesis using OdT12 l8 Primer 10 g of enriched, polyA selected Bowes mRNA in p1 H20 is incubated at room temperature for 10 in the presence of 10 mM MeHgOH Alia to aid in the unfolding of secondary structure. MeHgOH is highly toxic and should be handled in a rume hood. Subsequently, the following components are added B mercaptoethanol to 28 mM RNasin Biotec Inc 1 unit final reaction vol 75 mM Tris base pH 8.3 6 mM MgC12 50 mM KC1 10 g oligodeoxythymidine OdT i18 Collaborative Research 100 pCi a 32p dCTP Amersham dGTP, dTTP, and dATP to 500 m each dCTP to 250 m all nucleotides from P. L.Biochemicals, dissolved to 20 mM in 10 mM Trls base pH 8 and neutralized with 1.0M NaOH and reverse transcriptase Life Sciences Inc 1 unit g inputRNA, in a final reaction volume or 50 p1. Prlor to incubation, 1 ul is removed and spotted onto a nitrocellulose filter Schleicher and Schuell . After 60 at 420, 1 ul is again removed and spotted on a separate filter. The reaction is terminated by the addition of EDTA to 10 mM, and after phenol extraction, the cDNA is precipitated as described above. The filters are washed extensively 4 x 200 ml in ice cold 5 trichloroacetic acid TCA , dried, and dissolved in Liquifluor scintillation fluid New England Nuclear . TCA precipitable radioactivity is determined in a Beckman LS9000 scintillation counter.The difference between the 0 and 60 minute time points represents the net incorporation of dCTP from which the mass yield of cDNA may be calculated according to the formula Ci incorporated x specific activity mmole dCTP Ci of reaction x mass dCTP x 4 nucleotides mass of single stranded cDNA mmole dCTPMass conversion of RNA to cDNA using oligodT12 1g as a primer has varied between 15 40g, the typical conversion being 30 . B First Strand Synthesis using Specific Pentadecamers as Primers see Panabieres, F. et al., Gene, vol. 19, pp. 321 6 1982 for generally analogous procedures . Twenty Five pg of polyA selected RNA is incubated with 1 g of primer 5 10 rold picomolar excess of primer to template and 1.5 mM EDTA in 58 l at 900 C. The mixture is allowed to equilibrate to room temperature slowly by immersion in a 5 ml water bath heated initially to 900. After annealing the pentadecamer to the RNA template the following reagents are added dithiothreitol DTT to 2 mM RNasin to 1 unit l final reaction volume 100 mM Tris base, pH 8.3 11 mMMgCl2 50 mM KCl 100 Ci alpha 32p dCTP 500 m each of dGTP, dTTP, and dATP 250 M dCTP reverse transcriptase Life Sciences, Inc. to 1 unit RNA.Incubation is at 200 C for 3 hours at which point an equal amount of additional reverse transcriptase is added and the reaction is allowed to continue at 500 for 30 minutes. Aliquots are withdrawn at O, 180 minutes and 210 minutes for determination of incorporation as described above. Typical mass conversions when synthesizing specific cDNA by primer extension are 5 to 6S using Bowes polyA selected mRNA and t PA specific oligonucleotides. C Removal of the RNA Template EDTA is added to 10 mM and the RNA template is degraded by the addition of NaOH to 0.3 M from freshly prepared 3 M stock . Incubation is at 420 for 60 . The reaction is neutralized by addition of HC1 to 0.3 M after which it is extracted with an equal volume of PC1. Phases are separated by centrifugation at room temperature in an Eppendorf microfuge, the upper aqueous phase is removed and the interface reextracted 2X with 1 2 volume of 1 mM EDTA, 0.1 M NaCl O.lS SDS and 10 mM Tris base pH 7.5 NETS . The aqueous phases are pooled and extracted with PC1. Again, the upper aqueous phases are removed and the interface reextracted 1X with 1 volume NETS buffer. NaCl is added to 0.3 M, 2 volumes of ethanol are added and the single stranded cDNA is precipitated by incubating on dry ice for 30 60 . The precipitate is collected by centrifugation in an Eppendorf table top microfuge for 15 at room temperature.The pellet is dissolved in 200 l sterile distilledH20 adjusted to 0.3 M Nail, and ethanol precipitated again as described.After pelleting, the cDNA is briefly dried in a Savant Speed Vac Concentrator. D Second Strand Synthesis The second strand is synthesized in a reaction consisting of 40 mM KPO4 K phosphate pH 7.5 6.6 mM Mf of C12 1 mM DTT 500 um each of dGTP, dTTP, dATP 250 m dCTP 100 Ci 3H dCTP Amersham and 1 unit input RNA of DNA polymerase Klenow fragment BRL in a final volume of 100 p1. The reaction is incubated at 150 C for 4 hours and incorporation of 3H dCTP is rollowed as described for alpha 32p dCTP. The reaction is terminated, PC1 extracted, and double stranded cDNA precipitated all as described above ror first strand synthesis with the exception that NH4Ac is added to 2.5 M rather than NaCl to O.3 M for the first ethanol precipitation. NHAc minimizes coprecipitation of unincorporated nucleotide triphosphates to whichS1 nuclease is sensitive. E S1 Removal of Hairpin Structure S1 reactions are carried out in a 50 l reaction volume consisting of 30 mM NaAc pH 4.6 0.3 M NaCl 3 mM ZnS04 and S1 nuclease MilesLaboratories at 0.25 g S1 per g cDNA. Incubation is at 370 for 15 . Successful eiimination of hairpins is determined by increased in TCA soluble counts as previously described. The reaction is terminated by phenol extraction as described, omitting the precipitations. The aqueous phases are pooled and loaded directly onto sucrose gradients identical to those used for fractionation of polyA mRNA. Fractions are similarly collected and assayed this time by dissolving 5 l aliquots into 10 ml of Aquafluor scintillation fluid New England Nuclear and measuring both 32p and 3H. cDNA from relevant fractions are pre cipitated by addition of 2 volumes of ethanol and incubating on dry ice for 30 . The precipitates are pelleted by centrifugation for 15 at room temperature in an Eppendort mlerofuge. Pellets are dissolved in sterile 0.3 M NaCl, pooled and reprecipitated. The precipitates are pelleted and dried as described. F Tailing Homopol ymer tracts of dCTP are enzymatlcally added to the 3 termini of the cDNA molecules in a 50 p1 reaction made up on ice of 100 mM K Cacodylate Sigma pH 7.5 2 mM CoC12 1 mM EDTA 50 M dCTP 100 pCi a 32P dCTP and 12 units of deoxynucleotidyl transferase TT Miles . A 1 l 0 time point is spotted onto nitrocellulose and the reaction is initiated by incubating at 120. After 30 seconds, another 1 p1 aliquot is removed. The remainder of the reaction is immediately placed on dry ice while tail length is determined. The filters containing aliquots from the 0 and 30 second time points are washed in ice cold 5 TCA, dried and counted as described above.Net incorporation yields a statistical average of residues of dCTP added which when divided by the number of 3 termini in the reaction allows the determination of tail length per end. Ideally, 10 30 residues of dCTP should be added to maximize cloning efficiency. If after 30 seconds the tail length falls short or this range, the remaining reaction volume is thawed on, ice and reincubated at 120 C, titering at 15 second intervals until tails of adequate length are added.The reaction is then phenol extracted ethanol precipitated and dried as described under second strand synthesis NH4c minimizes coprecipitation of CoC12 . G Annealing to Vector DNA Vector DNA prepared by digesting pBR322 to completion with Pstl and adding homopolymer tracts of dGTP residues is purchased fromNew England Nuclear. Tailed oDNA is mixed with vector in a 1 1 molar ratio in a 50 p1 reaction containing 10 mM Tris pH 7.4 0.4 M NaCl 1 mM EDTA. Final DNA concentrations varied between 20 60 ug ml. Annealing is accomplished by either 1 following a defined regimen of incubations consisting of 650 10 420 601 370 2 hours, and then room temperature for 2 hours, or 2 incubation at 650 10 shutting off the water bath and allowing it to slowly equilibrate to roan temper ature overnight. Both methods appear to work equally well. In the ODNA synthesis described above various materials are used which are known or which can be synthesized by known methods. The following descriptions numbered 6. through 10. provide the synthesis or methods as noted for use in appropriate steps of the cDNA synthesis. 6. Oligonucleotide Synthesis Three pentadecamers are used either as probes or as primers ror cDNA synthesis. Their sequences are complementary to 3 t PA 5 3 positions 1. TCA CGG TCG CAT OTT 1759 1773 2. GGG GTT TGA GTC TCG 634 648 3. CCC ATC AGG ATT CCG 886 900They are synthesized and purified by methods analogous to those described in 7. Transrormations Transformations are carried out which are analogous to those described by Clark Curtis, G.E. and Curtis, Roy, III, Methods inEnzymology, sol. 101, pp. 347 62 i983 . 8 Restriction Analyses All restriction enzyme digestions are carried out as suggested by New England Blolabs. 9 In situ Screening Colony hybridization using double stranded DNA fragments as probes is carried out as described in Grunstein, M et al., Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci., 72, vol. 72, pp. 3961 5 1975 but modified to provide the following method Nitrocellulose filters are made which contain colonies of the cells prepared above. The filters are then laid, colony side up, onto a bed of 5 8 thickness of Whatman 3MM paper soaked in denaturing solution consisting of 1.5 M NaCl, 0.1 M NaOH.The denaturant is allowed to diffuse upwards into the colonies for 1.5 2 minutes at which time the filters are transferred to a second bed or 3MM papers soaked in neutralizing solution containing 0.2 M Tris.HCl pH 2 x SSC 1 x SSC 1 0.15 M Nail 0.015 M Na Citrate pH 7.1 , and 25 mM EDTA, for 1 3 minutes. Filters are then thoroughly air dried and baked in vacuo for 2 4 hours at 800 C. Hybridization conditions are as previously described by Goeddel, D.V. et al., Nature, vol. 290, pp. 20 26 1981 . Filters are prehybridized batchwise in 50 formamide, 5x Denhardts reagent 1x Denhardts bovine serum albumin 0.02 polyvinyl pyrrolidone, 0.02 ficol, MW400,000 50 sodium phosphate burfer pH 6.7, and 400 g ml denatured salmon sperm DNA at 420 C for 12 hours with moderate agitation. The prehybridization solution is then withdrawn from the hybridization vessel and heated to 680 C. Dextran sulfate Sigma, MW 500,000 is added to a final concentration of 10 . The probe is denatured, along with 20 g of unlabelled pBR322 digested with HinfI, by boiling for 5 minutes Both denatured DNAs are immediately diluted into, and mixed well with, the pre heated prehybridization mix. The solution is added back to the filters and allowed to hybridize at 420 for 16 hours with moderate agitation. After hybridization, the probe is removed and saved, and the filters are washed in 0.1 SDS, 0.2x SSC for a total of 3 hours with 5 changes of 400 ml each. Filters are thoroughly air dried, mounted, and autoradiographed using Kodak X OMAT AR film and Dupont CronexLightnening Plus intensifying screens for 16 hours at 700 C. The colony hybridizations described here use the pentadecamers also described above. For this use, in order to obtain maximum efficiency during assembly of the primer repaired fragment with its 3 counterpart and vector, it is necessary to phosphorylate the 5 terminus of the primer. 1 g of 15 mer is phosphorylated in a 50 l reaction volume consisting of 70 mM Tris base pH 7.6 , 100 mM KCl 10 mM MgC12, 5 mM dithiothreitol 1 mM ATPC P. L. Biochemicals , and 1 U T4 poly nucleotide kinase New England Biolabs . Incubation is at 370 for 60 minutes. For use as a hybridization probe, maximum specific activity is achieved by substituting 50 Ci. of t 32P dATP for the cold ATP as the source of phosphate. In this fashion, the 15 mer can be labelled to specific activity of 1 x 108 cpm per g. 10. Dideoxy Sequencing of Plasmid Minipreps Minipreps of plasmid DNA are prepared according to the methodHolmes and Qulgley see Holmes, D. S. et al., Analyl. Biochem., vol. 114, p. 193 1981 . Approximately 50 ng of template DNA are digested with Pstl. The enzyme is heat lnactlvated at 65 10 and 1 g DNasefree RNase Sigma is added. The RNA is degraded for 5 at room temperature at which time the proteins are extracted and the DNA precipitated and dried as described above. Dideoxy sequencing is carried out as follows.Pentadecamer num 1 is used as primer in a 20 1 molar excess over template. size primer is annealed to the template in a 13 l reaction containing 6 mM Tris base pH 7.5 6 mM MgC12 1 mM DTT, and 50 mM NaCl by boiling for 3 and immediately quenching on ice. 10 uCi or alpha 32p dCTP and 1 unit or DNA polymerase Klenow fragment Boehringer Mannhelm is added and this reaction is designated the annealing mix.Neutralized 0 5 mM stocks of dTTP, dATP and dGTP P. L. Biochemicals are diluted as described below to prepare dN mixes just prior to use C T A G dTTP 67 um 3.3 um 67 m 67 m dATP 67 m 67 m 3.3 m 67 m dGTP 67 m 67 m 67 m 3.3 m in 6 mM Tris base pH 7 5 6 mM MgC12 1 mM DTT and 50 mM NaCl. Dideoxynucleotide triphosphate ddNTP P. L. Biochemicals mixes are prepared from 5 mM ddNTP stocks just prior to use by diluting with sterile, distilled H20 to the following final concentration ddCTP 50 pM ddTTP 500 M ddATP dN pM and ddGTP 150 pM. The sequencing reaction is assembled from these 3 components, the annealing mix, dN mixes and the ddNTP mixes, in each of four tubes, labelled G,A, T and C respectively as follows G A T C dG 1 l dAO 1 ul dT 1 l dC 1 l ddG 1 l ddA 1 u1 ddT 1 l ddC 1 u1 annealing mix 3 u1 3 ul 3 u1 3 ul The reactions are incubated at 370 for 15 at which point 1 u1 of a solution of 2.5 mM each of dGTP, dATP, dTTP and dCTP 156 uM final concentration is added. The cold chase reaction proceeds at 370 for 15 and is terminated by the addition of 10 l of formamidedye solution consisting of 95 formamide, 0.05 each of xylene cyanol and bromophenol blue, and 10 mM EDTA. The reactions are prepared for electrophoresing by heating to 900 for 2 , and quenching on ice.2 3 til per lane is loaded on an 8 sequencing gel prepared and ran as follows Denaturing polyacrylamide gels Sanger and Coulson, 1978 are cast in glass plates for use in Bethesda Research Laboratories sequence apparatus. The gel size is 34 cm x 40 cm. The shorter of the glass plates is siliconized with a 5 dichlorodimethylsilane solution in carbon tetraohloride. The gels are 0.4 mm thick and run at constant power 50 watts . Gels are prerun at 50 watts until glass surface temperature reaches approximately 490 C 0.5 hour . Samples are loaded after prerunning using shark tooth combs and 1 2 yl loading volumes.To acquire maximum sequence information from each reaction three gels are run, one 8 and two 6 gels. Eight percent gels are run until the bromphenol blue dye migrates off the gel. A short 6S gel is run until the xylene cyanol dye migrates off the gel and the along 6 gel is run 5 hours at 50 watts constant power. After the electrophoresis is complete and power turned off the plates are removed from the apparatus. Tape used to clamp the plates together is removed and the two plates are carefully separated with a spatula. The siliconized glass plate releases easily from the gel leaving the gel attached to the second glass plate. The gel is recovered from the second glass plate by pressing a dry, developed piece of X ray film onto the gel and lifting the gel off the glass plate by starting slowly with one corner and peeling the gel away. The gel preferentially adheres to the dry film. A piece of polyester monofilament screen Tetko, Inc., Rolling Meadows,Ili1iois is carefully layed over the gel attached to the film and the screen stapled in place along the sides of the film.At this stage, the sandwiched gel is protected from shifting and can be handled easily. The gel is fixed in a 10 acetic acid 10 methanol bath for 10 15 minutes and washed with water after fixation for an equivalent amount of time. After washing the gel, the screen is removed and the gel recovered by pressing two layers of dry Whatman 3MM paper onto the gel. The gel prererentially adheres to the dry paper and lifts off the wet X ray film. The gel is covered with saran wrap and dried in a Hoerrer Model SE1150 slab gel dryer. Dried gels are exposed at room temperature for 2 4 days and films Kodak XAR 5 are developed as per manufacturers recommendations. B. Results The primary goal in synthesizing cDNA from mRNA is the generation of full length transcripts, i.e., transcripts which represent the entire coding sequence of the desired gene. Because or inherent dirrer ences in mRNA s from different sources, as well as variations from lot to lot in the enzymes used, it will be readily apparent to the ordinarily skilled artisan that various parameters in the following description of each step in the synthesis may require empirical optimization. First Strand Optimization KCl Concentration Effects of KC1 concentration on both quantity and length of cDNA transcripts rendered by reverse transcriptase RT during first strand synthesis is determined for mRNA isolated from pseudorabies virus PRV infected cells and from Bowes melanoma cells. Effect of KC1 concentration on quantity and length of transcript are determined in the following manner. Aliquots from the PRV reverse transcriptase reactions are electro phoresed on a 1.2 alkaline agarose denaturing gel. Agarose is melted in 50 mM NaC1, 1 mM EDTA and the gel is cast. The solidified gel is allowed to soak in alkaline electrophoresis buffer 30 mM NaOH, 1 mmEDTA for 30 minutes prior to use. Samples are dissolved in 50 mMNaOH, 1mM EDTA 12.5S Ficoll and 0.025S bromophenol blue, and electrophoresed. PRV mRNA clearly ravored lower KCl concentrations, yielding maximum mass conversion at 50 mM. KC1 concentrations above 50mM markedly reduced net cDNA synthesis by reverse transcriptase. Likewise, mRNA isolated from Bowes melanoma yields maximum mass conversion at 50 mM, displaying somewhat less sensitivity overall to final KC1 concentration. Because efficiency of transcription as measured by the incorporation of radiolabelled nucleotide yields no information concerning transcript length, aliquots from the PRV reverse transcriptase reactions are electrophoresed on 1.2S agarose NaOH denaturing gels for sizing. A small but clearly discernible increase in high molecular weight material appears as the optional KC1 concentration is approached. Thus, in terms of both quantity and length of cDNA transcripts,KC1 at 50 mM constitutes the optimal monovalent cation concentration these mRNA s. Other mRNA s may have different requirements.Retzel et al., Bio. Chem., vol. 19, pp. 513 8 1980 , have demonstrated the ability of reverse transcriptase to synthesize transcripts as long as 7200 nucleotides from AMV avian myeloblastosis virus mRNA in the presence of 148 mM KC1. Because reverse transcriptase is capable of functioning over a wide range of monovalent cation concentrations, and seems to display different requirements for mRNAs from different sources, empirical optimization of this parameter is recommended.Enzyme Concentration Effects of increasing amounts of reverse transcriptase on rate and extent of first strand synthesis are determined. Two reactions containing moderate levels of enzyme and one containing a substantial excess or enzyme are assayed for rates of incorporation and total cDNA made. As expected, increasing the amount of enzyme increased both rate and extent of cDNA synthesis. Unexpected, however, are the percent mass conversion data. Minor errors in determining the amount of mRNA going into these reactions is inadequate to explain a 280S mass conversion. The possibility that second strand synthesis is occurring during the first strand reaction is tested by treating these RT products with NaOH to degrade their mRNA templates and testing their sensitivity to the single strand specific endonuclease S1. All three reactions demonstrate the production of some S1 resistant material. Most striking, however,. is the observation that in the presence of vast enzyme excess 56 of the counts incorporated by reverse transcriptase are S1 resistant.Clearly at high enzyme concentrations reverse transcriptase is capable of displacing the mRNA template and synthesizing the second strand.While not tested, the possibility exists that in the presence of the negligibls RN ase H activity associated with the RT used, the displaced mRNA template again becomes available for additional re initiation transcription. This would explain mass conversions above the theoretical double strand limit of 200 . Reverse transcriptase products, whether complete or partial copies of the mRNA template, often possess short, partially double stranded hairpins at their 3 termini see Wickens, M. P. et al., J. of Biol. Chem., vol. 253, pp. 2483 95 . These hairpins are required as primers byDNA polymerase Klenow fragment for the extension of the second strand see Efstradiatis, A. et al., Cell, vol. 7, pp. 279 88 1976 andRougeon, F. et al., Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci., vol. 73, pp. 3418 22 1976 .In order for them to form and become available to the Klenow enzyme, the mRNA template must be removed prior to attempting second strand synthesis with this enzyme.Template Removal The method of this invention for removing the mRNA template prior to second strand synthesis uses globin mRNA Bethesda Research Labs as a substrate. The first strand is synthesized as described above.Subsequently, NaOH is added to 0.3 M and is incubated at 420 for 60 minutes. mRNA template degradation is a function of the efficiency with which the first strand mediates second strand synthesis. From a comparison of globin cDNA on a standard, nondenaturing 5 acrylamide gel shows mRNA template removal by the complete shirtzdown of material from the aberrantly migrating single stranded transcript to the 700 basepair double stranded globin cDNA. The result is a single strand cDNA capable of functioning as a template directing second strand synthesis as indicated by identical incorporation of 3H dCTP 1.3 during the Klenow reaction. Control reactions attempting to synthesize second strand without prior removal of the mRNA template shows little or no 3H dCTP incorporation.Second Strand Synthesis Second strand synthesis mediated by DNA polymerase Klenow fragment is monitored routinely by incorporation of 3H dCTP It is repeatedly found that at 15e the redaction goes to completion by 4 hours and additional reaction time usually does not effect the result and could, depending on the particular preparation or Klenow, result in a loss or as much as 30S of TCA precipitable material. In keeping with the desire to obtain double stranded transcripts of as great a length as possible, material from the Klenow reaction is subjected to an additional hour of polymerization at 500 C in the presence of reverse transcriptase. It is hoped that secondary structure sufficient to stop Klenow at 150 C would be melted out at 50 C thus allowing reverse transcriptase t o complete any unfinished second strands.The reaction is monitored by measuring additional 3H dCTP uptake over the course of the 60 minute reaction. It is consistently found that for globin or Bowes mRNA, no additional incorporation occurs. While no measurements are made with PRV mRNA, it is reasonable to expect that the addition of a high temperature second strand RT step would be of benefit in unravelling the unusually tenacious secondary structure associated with high G C mRNAs. Hence the additional RT step is routinely added when working with such templates. S1 Endonuclease In order to generate a double stranded cDNA molecular suitable for cloning see tailing below , the hairpin used for priming second strand synthesis must be eliminated. This is accomplished using the single strand specific endonuclease S1. Because this enzyme is reported to be sensitive to concentrations of deoxynucleoside triphosphates dNTP s as low as 1 pM see Weigand, R. C. et al., J. Biol. Chem., vol. 250, pp. 8848 55 1975 , unincorporated dNTPs left over from the polymerization reactions must be efficiently eliminated. Due to variability in recovery efficiencies, as well as the inconvenience associated. with many types of sizing columns, an alternative means ot disposing of dNTPs is used.The most straightforward means of accomplishing this is to take advantage or the greater solubility of dNTPs vs. cDNA in the presence of 2.5M NH4Ac, 70 ethanol. cDNA purified on Sephadex G 50 medium, and cDNA purified by successive NH4AC, NaCl ethanol precipitations are used as substrates in S1 reactions involving increasing amounts of S1. Reactions are setup as described in Materials and Methods under t PA cDNA above, each containing 6 ng of double stranded globincDNAand S1. Aliquots from the reactions on 1.2 alkaline agarose gels next to single stranded globin cDA. Electrophoreses is accomplished here in a manner to that used in determining the effect of KCl concentration above. No consequential difference in sl sensitivity is observed over the range of S1 concentrations used, indicating that ethanol precipitation performed as described, is just as effective at removing unincorporated nucleotide as theSephadex G 50 column for purpose of S1 digestion. An experimental format similar to that described above is used to titer each lot of S1 nuclease received prior to use in actual cDNA constructions. Briefly, S1 in increasing amounts is reacted with known, constant mass amounts of double stranded cDNA and the reaction products are electrophoresed on alkaline agarose gels along side single stranded ODNA. The proper ratio of S1 cDNA is defined as the minimum amount of enzyme required to cause the double stranded cDNA to co migrate with the single stranded cDNA on denaturing gels an observation which would be consistent with clipping the hairpin, thereby reducing its denatured size to equality with that of its single stranded percursor .It is clear that a decrease in material running at 2x and a proportional increase in material running at 1x , results from increasing amounts of S1. Ordinary experimentation easily shows what is considered to contain the proper amount of enzyme for efficient removal of the hairpin. Because S1 endonuclease preparations usually have varying amounts of double strand exonuclease either integrally associated with the enzyme or co purifying with it, titration of each lot of S1 should be routine. The consequences of over digestion with S1 are apparent in the following material. sucrose Gradients Double stranded S1 treated cDNA is routinely sized on sucrose gradients. This allows additional enrichment for cDNAs of a desired size class as well as eliminating very small material which interferes with subsequent steps.Terminal Transferase The addition of homopolymer tracts of dCTP residues tails of appropriate length 10 30 residues per end using deoxynucleotidyl transferase dTT is perhaps the most difficult in the entire series orcDNA reactions. The basi s for this lies in the very limited range over which tail length can vary while still permitting the cDNA to represent an optimal substrate for cloning in E. coli.Factors further complicating control of the reaction are 1 the high rate of incorporation of dCTP 17 pmoles per minute per unit of enzyme substrates not limiting , 2 the sensitivity of the enzyme to dilution, 3 the resultant need to reduce reaction rate by severely limiting substrate dCTP concentration as well as reducing the temperature of the reaction, 4 the fact that the calculation of residues added per 3 end relies very heavily on crude approximations of mass amount and average size of cDNA in the reaction, and finally 5 the fact that these calculations make the assumption that all 3 ends are tailed with equal efficiency an assumption which is most likely inaccurate. The best way to titer the terminal transferase reaction is by using actual, heterogenous cDNA material. For the sake of the necessary calculation of residues added 3 terminus, assumptions are made as described above. In essence, once approximate parameters are empirically determined, each tailing reaction is approached conservatively, cycling through incubations and tail length determinations until that particular cDNA is appropriately tailed. Two technical notes should be added at this point. First, dTT continues to add residues even at 0 C. Since the enzyme is capable of withstanding repeated freeze thaws without noticeable loss of activity, it is recommended that while determining tail length the reaction be stopped by rreezing immediately on dry ice. Secondly, cacodylic acid arsenic is toxic to E. coli. Ethanol precipitation, preferably prior to annealing, carrier tRNA may be added at this point is absolutely essential.t PA cDNA Initial cDNA banks primed with oligo dT12 18 are generated from mRNA enriched for t PA sequences by fraction on sucrose gradients and subsequent assay of oocyte translation products via the casein agar plate method as described by Miskin, R. et al., Nuc. Acids Res., vol. 9, 3355 63 1981 . t PA activity is rendered by mRNA migrating at about 19S see Opdenatker, G. et al., Eur. J. Biochem., vol. 121, pp. 269 274 1982 and of 300 pg of Bowes polyA mRNA loaded onto the gradient, about 50 ug are pooled from peak fractions. Ten vg of this enriched mRNA yields approximately 3 vg of cDNA.After size fractionation of this cDNA, about 100 ng average size of 1000 bp are available for cloning. Transformation efficiency with this cDNA is somewhat low at 6x103 transformants ug cDNA, probably as a result of suboptimal tailing conditions being used at the time. Two additional banks are similarly constructed resulting in a total of 8000 transformants, with a background of about 4 . Percent background is the quotient of the number of transformants obtained via transformation with self annealed vector divided by the total number of transformants. 20,000 colonies derived from the three banks are screening using a 32p labelled pentadecamer complimentary to the coding sequence of the last 5 amino acid residues of the protein nucleotides 1759 1773 . Of these, one colony hybridized is duplicate.Pstl restriction analysis of this clone is performed to determine if the digestion products are consistent with the Pstlrestriction map Chart 6 . The digest yielded 4 fragments the original pBR322 vector, an 1150 bp fragment, an 80 bp fragment and a 78 bp fragment. These results suggest an insert spanning 1300 bp of the genes 31 end nucleotides 1250 2550 . To confirm this assumption, the clone is double digested with Pstl and Ddel. The latter enzyme should cut the 1150 bp fragment into a 926 bp fragment and a 229 bp fragment while leaving the 78 or 80 bp fragments intact. The results of such a double digest support the conclusion that the clone does in fact represent the 3 end of the t PA gene. As final proof, a mini preparation of DNA is isolated from the clone and is sequenced by the dideoxy chain termination protocol as described above in Materials and Methods under t PA cDNA. The sequence data derived from this clone, designated pTPA H, are identical to sequence data presented by Pennica et al., Nature, vol. 301, pp. 21421 1983 for human tissue plasminogen activator. From here the focus is on isolation of the 5 end of the gene. To do this, cDNA is synthesized from twice selected polyA mRNA by primer extending from pentadecamer num 1 rather than from OdT12 1g. The advantage afforded by this approach is twofold. First, because priming is specific for t PA, a higher percentage of the cDNA made should be represented by t PA specific sequences. Secondly, priming is some 800 bp 5 of the polyA tail, the site utilized by OdT12 18 to prime first strand synthesis. This almost assures that the cDNA derived from this approach will include transcripts extending further 5 than pTPA H. To test the specificity of priming, reverse transcriptase reactions are set up containing either no primer, OdT12 18 as primer, or t PA pentadecamer as primer. Incorporation or 32P dCTP into TCA precipitable material is monitored. The data indicate that with Bowes mRNA, a fair amount of self priming occurs, even after two selections on Odt cellulose. Substracting this from the incorporations obtained in the presence of each of the 2 primers, about halr as much cDNA is made when specifically primed with t PA primer as with OdT1218. Considering that t PA specific sequences are thought to represent a very small percentage of polyA mRNA 0.01S , this observation suggests that self priming may be enhanced by the primer template annealing .procedure used in this reaction see Materials Methods of t PA cDNA above. Aliquots of these 3 RT products as well as from a separate experiment generated by priming at a different point in the t PA gene are electrophoresed on denaturing gels.The appearance of discrete bands in addition to the broad smear indicative or the normal size heterogeneity of a transcript population would be suggested of both speciricity of priming as well as enrichment for the primed transcript. The first gel compares single stranded cDNA synthesized in the 3 reactions described above. Discrete bands appearing at about 1750 and 2100 nucleotides do in fact appear in the cDNA primed with the t PA 15 mer 15 mer prl a full length transcript synthesized from this primer would be about 1775 nucleotides in length . These bands are absent in the cDNA nonspecifically primed with OdT12 18, suggesting both speciiicity of priming by the 15 mer, and therefore, enrichment of t PA sequences during transcription. The bands are also absent from a selr primed cDNA population.Likewise, discrete bands of 200, 350, and 450 nucleotides in length appear in oDNA primed with a pentadecamer com plimentary to a different area of the t PA gene 15 mer t2 , Together these data strongly support the contention that the discrete bands represent an enrichment or t PA specific transcripts, and are not artefacts arising from non speciric or self priming of the mRNA. Transformation efficiency with this t PA primed, cDNA is 2.5x105 transformants per g of C9NA. Two banks totaling 25,000 transformants are generated. The concept of gene walking is applied to purposely bias the screening. The pTPA H 5 terminal 80 bp Pstl fragment is gel isolated and used to probe 28,000 colonies derived from the primer extended banks. This specifically selects for clones extending at least as far 5 as pTPA H, and hopefully as a result of the primer extension approach, clones containing additional 5 sequences as well. The screen yielded 50 positives. This represents a 16 fold increase in t PA specific clones when compared with OdT12 18 primed cDNA synthesized from t PA enriched via oocyte injection mRNA. The longest t PA insert is found during secondary screening with Pstl and Ddel. The clone, designated pTPA8O 1, included an insert spanning nucleotides 550 1600.The data thus clearly indicates pTPA8O 1 which spans the t PA sequence rrom nucleotides 550 1600, which is consistent with Chart 6 depiction. The restriction data make it possible to determine fairly accurately 10J the position of the 3 terminus. If priming begins at nucleotide 1759, and pTPA 80 1 has a 3 terminus at about position 1600, then a loss of approximately 160 basepairs occurres at some point during the cloning. The S1 endonuclease is the most likely cause.of the loss. It s not clear from these experiments, however, that the loss occurres due to infidelity of the single stranded speciticity of the enzyme. It s certainly possible that for some reason second strand synthesis stopped at nucleotide 1600, meaning that the single strandedDNA template extending 3 from position 1600 to the original priming site would be a legitimate substrate for S1. The more likely explanation in light or the compound second strand synthesis reactions used in making this cDNA Klenow followed by high temperature RT is that overdigestion with S1 results in enhanced double stranded nuclease activity. If this in fact is the case, it might be assumed that degradation proceedes from both ends, meaning that the double stranded cDNA transcript is reduced in length by 320 bp.In either event, it s apparent that cDNA synthesis without the requisite S1 step would result in transcripts of greater length. Alternatives are discussed below. The orientation of pTPA H and pTPA 80 1 are determined and are depicted in Chart 7 along with the strategy devised to combine them.The new construct, designated pTPA, is verified by Pstl digestion. Since pTPA 80 1 ithe longest t PA insert amongst the 50 positives detected in the first primer extended banks, a second oligonucleotide complimentary to the coding sequence of amino acid residues 233 237 nucleotides 886 900 15 mer num 2 is used to generate another cDNA bank. This particular area of the gene is chosen so that should S1 be removed even as much as 200 bp from the 3 terminus of the transcript, sufficient overlap with pTPA L would still exist so as to allow for assenbly of the fragments. Transformation efficiency with this cDNA is 3.6z104 transformants g cDNA and a total or 6300 colonies background of 3 is obtained. About 7000 colonies from this bank are screened with an oligonucleotide complimentary to coding sequence extending from nucleotides 645 660 15 mer Again Again about 50 unambiguous positives are obtained. This represents a 50 fold enrichment of t PA specific transcripts over cDNA nonspecifically primed with 0dT12 18 . Secondary screening is accomplished by Pstl and BgIII digestion and 1 clone, pTPA 12, is shown to contain the remaining 5 sequences. Again, this is consistent with the Pstl restriction map for t PA shown in Chart 6. Again, the effects of S1 on insert length are apparent with pTPA 12. While priming is initiated at nucleotide 886, pTPA 12 extends only to about nuicleotide 750 a loss of about 136 bp. A linear summary of all t PA inserts derived above is illustrated in Chart 8. With the entire t PA sequence available on two clones pTPA L and pTPA 12 the final task of assembly remained. The strategy is depicted in the following outline 1. 5 End pTPA 12 A. Taq I pTPA 12 GEL PURIFY 2194 bp fragment 20 pg B. BglII 2194 GEL PURIFY 405 bp fragment HgaI II. CENTER SEQUENCE pTPA L A. PvuII pTPPA L GEL PURIFY 1748 bp fragment 100 ug EcoRI B. HgaI 1748 GEL PURIFY 209 bp fragment III. 3 END pTPA L T4 DNA Paymerase EcoRI PARTIAL DIGEST pTAL Linear 63Kb FLUSH ended GEL PURIFY 1871 bp Fragment PvuI 4 dNTP s 20 ug 3 overhand linear IV. VECTOR pKC7 pKC7 4.8 Kb 1 Kb VECTOR BgtII Smal Bacterial Alkaline PhosphataseEach of the above products I., II., III. and IV. are depicted in Chart 9 and then shown as ligated t PA fragments in Chart 10. One noteworthy aspect of this strategy is the means by which the need for alkaline phosphatase treatment of the internal fragment is obviated. Typically, multipiece 4 fragments ligations produce the desired construction with very low efficiency due to concatemerization of the fragments. Treatment with alkaline phosphatase in the appropriate fashion minimizes this problem, resulting in a dramatic increase in efficiency of correct, multipiece assemply. See Clark Curtis, G. E. et al. cited above . In assembling the t PA fragments, we took advantage of the unique way in which the restriction endonuclease, Hgal, cuts DNA. The recognition binding sequence of the enzyme is GACGC but the enzyme cuts at a point beyond that recognition sequence Chart 11 . As a result, fragments cut with Hgal will ligate only with their originally contiguous counterpart. Selr ligatlon promoted by the Hgal overhang cannot happen. The 4 piece t PA ligation contains two fragments bearing an Hgal terminus. That in addition to treatment of the vector with alkaline phosphatase to minimize self closure results in 80S of the transformants bearing the correctly assembled t PA gene. Correct assembly is verlRled by the restriction digests. The plasmid, designated pTPA, is illustrated in Chart 12.Discussion The task of eukaryotic gene isolation exercises virtually every technical skill currently associated with state of the art nucleic acid biochemistry. However, the method described herein emphasizes those techniques which provide the means for circumventing constraints imposed on gene isolation strategies both by relative sequence abundance as well as by eukaryotic gene topography i.e., introns specifically, the use of oligonucleotides in enriching for and isolating rare transcripts and the in vitro conversion of nRMA isolated from an enriched source into a population of double stranded DNA copies. Thus, the gene source together with the detailed, complete techniques used to isolate the t PA gene herein which are known and available to the public provide one of skill in the art enabling disclosure. In summary, several factors can greatly facilitate this process.Ready access to tissue which is synthesizing large amounts of t PA the target proteins is known. Further, proteins synthesized by established cell lines as here in the Bowes melanomas cell line are particularly convenlent. Chart 1 Construction of pTPAH XV pTPA having 7.4 kbEMI42.1 I pTPA SalIEMI42.2 II pTPAHEMI42.3 XV Cut with BalI and Ligate Sail linkers I Cut withBglII till ends partially Treat with Hung bean nuclease Cut with HindIII rill ends and ligate Transform E. coli and screen II TTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTUUUUUUUUUUUU t PA gene.TTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTT Coding region of t PA gene.UUUUUUUUUUUU 3 Untranslated region of t PA gene. Chart 2 Plasmid p alpha 1 ADHt III p alpha 1 ADHt EMI43.1 Chart 3 Modification to the t PA geneThe t PA geneEMI44.1 SSSS Signal sequence.UUUUUUU Untranslated region of t PA gene. Chart 4 Construction of the Plasmid pYREP31B IV Y1P31 PlasmidEMI45.1 V 2 Plasmid from yeastEMI45.2 VI pYREP31BEMI45.3 EMI45.4 tb IV SEP Cut SEP with SEP SmaI SEP BAP tb SEP tb V SEP Cut SEP with SEP PstI SEP and SEP Xbal SEP tb SEP purify SEP 1.3 SEP Kb SEP fragment tb ligate and transform intoE. coli VI AAAAAAAAAAAAA URA3.RRRRRRRR Fragment spanning the R PIIS and replication origin. Chart 5 Construction of Plasmid PGG400 VII pBR322EMI46.1 VIII pmL21EMI46.2 IX pGG400EMI46.3 EMI46.4 tb VII SEP Cut SEP with SEP EcoRI SEP and SEP PvuII tb SEP Fill SEP ends tb VIII SEP Cut SEP with SEP PvuII tb ligate transform into E. cold select forKmr TcS clone . IX Kmr Kanamycin resistance. Ampicillin resistance.Tcr Tetracycline resistance. Chart 6 Construction of pADHt IX PGG400 see Chart 5 X pADHBCEMI47.1 XI1 pADHtEMI47.2 EMI47.3 tb IX SEP Cut SEP with SEP Xho SEP and SEP PvuII tb SEP Fill SEP ends tb SEP tb SEP tb SEP tb X SEP Cut SEP with SEP HincII SEP and SEP BamHI tb SEP Fill SEP ends SEP with SEP T4 SEP pol. tb ligate, transform fromE.coll and screen XI DDDDDDDDDDDDDDD ADHI.HHHHHHHHHHH ADHI 3 end. Chart 7 Construction of Plasmid pADHt REPIII XI2 Modification of Plasmid pADHt XI1 shown in Chart 6EMI48.1 VI pYREP31B see Chart 4 XXVII pADHt REPIIIEMI48.2 XI2 Cut with SphI Fill ends with T4 pol., VI Cut with HindIII Fill ends with T4 pol.EMI48.3 ligate and transform into E. coli XXVII AAAAAAAA URA3 gene. Chart 8 XXVII pADHt REPIII see Chart 7 XXVIII palEMI49.1 III p alpha 1 ADHt approximately 6.8 Kb by sizeEMI49.2 EMI49.3 tb XXVII SEP Cut SEP with SEP EcoRI HindIII tb SEP Purify SEP the SEP larger SEP fragment tb SEP tb SEP tb SEP tb XVIII SEP Cut SEP with SEP EcoRI HindIII tb SEP Purify SEP the SEP smaller SEP 1.2 SEP Kb tb SEP fragment SEP tb ligate and transform into E. coli III AAAAAA URA3 gene. Is ampicillin resistance gene. Chart 9 III pal ADHt see Chart 8 II pTPAH see Chart I EMI50.1 PPPPPPPPPPPPP MF alpha 1 promoter and pre pro signals. z DNA encoding for t PA. HHHH ADHI 3 end.AAAAAAAA URA3 gene. RRR REPIII and replication origin from 2u yeast plasmid. III Cut with XhoI and fill ends then cut with HlndIII and purify the larger fragment III II Cut with HindIII SStI purify the smaller fragment II . II Cut with Sau3A SStI as described and purify 389 bp Sau3A SStI fragment II . III ligate, transform E. coli HB101 with ligated II DNA and screen for appropiate plasmid XXX II Chart 10EMI51.1 Psu Restriction MAP t PA Odel all sites not shown EcoRI Chart 11 Orientation and Assembly of TPA X and pTPA 80 1 XII pTPAH having 5.7 KbEMI52.1 XIII pTPH 80 1 having 5.4 KbEMI52.2 XIV pTPAL having 6.3 KbEMI52.3 5 Chart 12 Insert summary of 4 partial t PA clones EMI53.1 Chart 13EMI54.1 SSSSSSSSS Solid.mark merely to highlight a particular plasmid fragment. Chart 14 Ligation of t PA fragmentsEMI55.1 Chart 15 Recognition and cutting sequence ot the restriction endonuclease HgaI. Arrows indicate sites of strand actssion EMI56.1 Chart 16 Map of pTPA XV PTPA having 7.4 KbEMI57.1 EMI57.2 EcoRI. PstI.BBBB pBR322.TTTTTTTT t PA coding sequence.NNNN t PA 3 non coding sequence.