# Method for producing dibenzyl monosorbitol acetal gels at lower temperature.

## Abstract
A method for producing solid gel antiperspirant compositions at a lower processing temperature, said compositions containing an acidic antiperspirant metal active compound, dibenzyl monosorbitol acetal as the gelling agent and at least one alcohol, a solvent which is an organic compatible, small organic compound of not greater than about five carbon atoms and is a good hydrogen bond donor or acceptor, and a stabilizing compound which is a basic metallic salt, and the gelled antiperspirant sticks formed by the process.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A solid gelled antiperspirant composition comprising a 1 to 50 percent by weight of a solvent which is a small, polar organic and organic compatible compound b 0 to 80 percent by weight of a cosolvent alcohol c 1 to 10 percent by weight of dibenzyl mono sorbitol acetal d 0 to 35 percent by weight of an emollient e 5 to 25 percent by weight of an acidic anti perspirant active metal salt f 0 to 2.5 percent by weight of a C12 to C20 fatty acid g 0.05 to 5 percent by weight of a gel stabilizer which is a basic metallic salt. 2. The composition of claim 1 wherein said small, polar organic solvent is a cyclic ester, amide ketone, urea, carbamate, sulfoxide, sulfone, or the open chain analogs thereof. 3. The composition of claim 2 wherein said small, polar organic solvent is morpholine, pyridine, N methyl pyrrolidone, pyrrolidone, acetic acid, ethylene carbonate, propylene carbonate, butyrolactone dimethyl sulfoxide, dimethyl formamide, 2 ethoxyethanol or caprolactam. 4. A composition according to claim 1 wherein the acidic antiperspirant active metal salt is aluminum chlorhydrex or aluminum zirconium chlorhydrex. 5. A method for manufacturing a stable gelled antiperspirant stick containing an acidic metal salt astringent, dibenzyl monosorbitol acetal as the gelling agent, and at least one solvent comprising the use of propylene carbonate, pyrolidone or butyrolactone as a solvent, and a basic metallic salt as a stabilizing agent wherein a first phase is formed comprising said acidic metal salt and a low molecular weight alcohol, at a temperature not exceeding about 750C, a second phase is formed comprising said dibenzyl monosorbitol, said propylene carbonate pyrolidone or butyrolactone solvent, and said basic metallic salt at a temperature not exceeding about 1300C, said second phase is cooled to about 700 to 800C and thereafter combined with said first phase to form a mixture, and said mixture is allowed to cool to form said antiperspirant stick. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the solvent of said second phase may comprise in addition low molecular primary or secondary alcohols. 7. The method of claim 5 wherein said solvent may comprise a cyclic ester, amide, ketone, urea, carbamate, sulfoxide or the open chain analogs thereof. 8. The method of claim 5 wherein said acidic antiperspirant active metal salt is aluminum chlorhydrex or aluminum zirconium chlorhydrex. 9. The method of claim 5 wherein said basic metallic salt is selected from the group consisting of zinc oxide, calcium acetate, magnesium oxide, calcium carbonate, sodium carbonate, zinc carbonate and potassium carbonate.

## Description
METHOD FOR PRODUCING DIBENZYL MONOSORBITOL ACETAL GELS AT LOWER TEMPERATURE The present invention relates to gelled cosmetic sticks in general. More particularly, it relates to gelled antiperspirant sticks containing an acidic antiperspir antactive compound. Still more particularly, it relates to antiperspirant sticks containing an acidic antiperspir antactive compound in the presence of dibenzyl monosorbitol acetal DBMSA , a sutable organic solubilizing agent there fore, and a stabilizing agent, and to a method for producing said sticks at lower temperatures. Many known cosmetic sticks consist largely of gelled alcoholic solutions. Sticks which exhibit a desirable transparent or translucent appearance are readily prepared using sodium stearate as the gelling agent, however, they cannot be prepared in the presence of acidic antiperspirantactive salts because the alkaline gelling agent will react with the salt. Opaque sticks are readily prepared from acidic antiperspirant salts using certain low melting waxy materials, such as stearyl alcohol. Translucent gel sticks with dibenzyl monosorbitol acetal have been made containing acidic antiperspirant active salts but with high temperature processing. The sticks are stable, but there is a need for an easy, low temperature method of making acid stable, translucent antiperspirant sticks. Antiperspirant sticks containing dibenzyl monosorbitol acetal and acidic antiperspirant active salts are disclosed by Roehl, U.S. Patent No. 4,151,816 Naarden .These sticks contain, in addition to the salt and gelling agent, a lower monohydric alcohol, such as ethanol a di or trihydric alcohol, such as 1,2 propylene glycol or 1,3butylene glycol, and or a lower polyglycol a propylene ethylene glycol polycondensate, having the formula HO C2H40 x C3H60 y H wherein x x y lies between 0.6 and 1.0 and an average molecular weight of at least 500 and optionally, a mono or dialkanolamide of a higher Cg C20 fatty acid, such as N 2 hydroxyethyl cocamide. In U.S. Patent no. 4,346,079, Roehl discloses that a drawback to the sticks described above is their stickiness on application, which can be eliminated by entirely omitting, or greatly reducing, the polycondensate, and adding instead about 0.1 to 25 percent by weight of an oleaginous compound for stickiness control. Applicants have found that the antiperspirant sticks described by Roehl must be made at elevated temperatures, e.g. at about 1400C in order to solubilize the dibenzyl monosorbitol acetal with presently used solvents.The use of such elevated temperature is disadvantages for a number of reasons. Forming the stick at such an elevated temperature accelerates the decomposition of the dibenzyl monosorbitol acetal. In addition, specialized equipment is required.Production equipment generally used in the manufacture of antiperspirant is designed to operate at a maximum of about 100OC, Moreover, the use of lower temperatures uses less energy, is safer, poses less vapor problems and will involve lower chemical reaction rates. A further advantage of lower temperatures is better compatability with fragrances, lower boiling components, and the plastic packaging into which the heated molten mixture is poured. In accordance with the present invention there are provided antiperspirant compositions containg dibenzyl monosorbitol acetal in the presence of acidic antiperspirant active salts, said compositions comprising a about 1 to 50 percent of a solvent which is a small, polar organic compound b about 0 to 80 percent by weight of a cosolvent c about 1 to 10 percent by weight of dibenzyl monosorbitol acetal d about 0 to 35 percent by weight of an emollient e about 5 to 25 percent by weight of an antiperspirantactive compound f about 0 to 2.5 percent by weight of aC12 C20 fatty acid and g 0.05 to 5 percent by weight of a gel stabilizer said gel stabilizer being a basic metallic salt. It has now been found that, although propylent carbonate and butyrolactone are excellent solvents, the gelled antiperspirant composition is not sufficiently stabilized against deterioration, including high temperature degradation. The stabilizing agents of the present invention, suitable for stabilizing gelled sticks using propylene carbonate or butyrolactone as the primary solvent are basic metallic salts, e.g. zinc oxide, calcium acetate, magnesium oxide, calcium carbonate, calcium hydroxide, magnesium carbonate, sodium carbonate, zinc carbonate and potassium carbonate. Although the stabilizers of the present invention have been indicated as useful with propylene carbonate and butyrolactone, these stabilizers are also effective with additional solvents as disclosed in the above mentioned copending application. In addition to the solvents set forth above, other solvents used in the invention are primary or secondary alcohols as follows primary or low molecular weight alcohols such as ethanol, n propanol, n butanol, 2 methoxyethanol, 2 ethoxyethanol ethylene glycol, 1,2 propylene glycol, diethylene glycol, and the like, and mixtures thereof. These solvents, because they are primary alcohols or because of their low molecular weight, tend to be more reactive towards dibenzyl monosorbitol acetal in the presence of acidic antiperspirant active salts. They are, however, excellent solvents for the preparation of the gelled compositions, particularly ethanol. Alcohol with secondary alcohol groups or longer chain length, are less reactive towards dibenzyl acetal in the presence of acidic antiperspirant active salts. These are also useful in the present invention. These solvents include isopropanol, isobutanol, diethylene glycol monomethylether, diethylene glycol monoethylether, 1,3 butylene glycol, 2,3 butylene glycol, dipropylene glycol, 2,4dihydroxy 2 methylpentane, and the like, and mixtures thereof. A generally useful range for the primary and or secondary alcohols is about o to 80 percent by weight of the stick composition. A preferred range is 35 to 65 percent.monosorbitol. The amount of stabilizers required will vary and will depend on the relative instability inherent in the solvents used, their relative proportions, and on the acidity of the antiperspirant active salt used. Ordinarily the stabilizers will be used in an amount ranging from 0.02 to 5 percent by weight, preferably about 0.1 to 1 percent by weight, based on the total weight of the stick. In addition to the solvents, dibenzyl monosorbitol acetal, antiperspirant active salt and stabilizer, the sticks may contain other commonly used ingredients. A liquid, volatile cyclic dimethylsiloxane may be added to the compositions to provide a desirable dry feel and emolliency. Other commonly used emollients, such as PPG 3 myristyl ether, octyl isononanoate, and the like, may be incorporated into the stick either in place of or in addition to the dimethylsiloxane. Although optional, it is preferred to use about 3 to 30 percent by weight of one or a combination of emollients. The antiperspirant active metal salts used in the present invention are the usual aluminum and or zirconium compounds, especially aluminum hydroxy chlorides. They may be added in the form of a complex to enhance solubility in alcohols, such as aluminum chlorhydrex or Al Zr chlorhy drex. The metal salts are preferably used in an amount of 10 to 20 percent by weight. When solutions of aluminum hydroxychlorides are heated there may be a tendency towards premature gelation.This may be suppressed by the addition of a small amount of a C12 C20 fatty acid, such as stearic acid, without adversely affecting the stability of the gel. The amount added is preferably 0.2 to 1 percent. In addition to the ingredients described above, the antiperspirant sticks may contain other ingredients in minor amounts, such as a dye color or a fragrance. The present process involves dissolving the antiperspirant active in one phase and the dibenzyl monosorbitol acetal gellant in another phase. The two phases are then combined and poured into a mold or into the final package.Typically, a first phase is formed containing the acidic metal salt and a low molecular weight alcohol, at a temperature not exceeding about 750C, and the second phase is formed containing the dibenzyl monosorbitol, the propylene carbonate, pyrolidone or butyrolactone solvent, and the basic metallic salt at a temperature not exceeding about 1050C, the second phase is cooled to about 700 to 800C and thereafter combined with the first phase to form a mixture, and the mixture is allowed to cool to form the antiperspirant stick. The other components are added to either of the two phases depending on the compatability of the component with the phases as would be evident to those skilled in the art.If desired, one could employ more phases by forming a separate solution of some of the components. These separate phases then could be added to either of the two main phases or all of the phases could be poured together at the end as for example with a multi stream filling head or in an inline mixer. The following specific Examples 1 to 18 will illustrate the invention. The examples are shown in tabulated form in Table I. The formulations were prepared as follows preparation of propylene carbonate formulas The aluminum chlorhydrex of Phase A is dissolved in the ethanol with mixing. When the solution is clear, the myristyl ether is added. All the components of Phase B are heated with mixing until the dibenzylidene sorbitol is dissolved no hotter than 1050C . Phase B is cooled to 750C and added to Phase A at room temperature. The resulting mixture is poured into molds or the final package. Preparation of butyrolactone formulas The aluminum chlorohydrex of Phase A is dissolved in the ethanol with mixing and heating. When clear the other components of Phase A are added and the Phase maintained at 4000. Phase B is treated as described for propylene carbonate with Phase B at 750C added to Phase A at 4000. The gelled sticks were submitted to an accellerated storage stability test to determine their comparative stability. The test consisted of storing the comprositions temperature of 600C and observing their condition periodically. The condition and storage time is shown at the bottom of Table I for each Example. One day storage at 600C is equivalent to two weeks at 450C which is the industry recognized high temperature stability for cosmetics. Specific Examples 19 to 27 are illustrated inTable II together with the results of accellerated storage stability testing at 450C and 6000. Examples 19 to 21 were prepared according to the low temperature process of the present invention. TABLE 1EMI7.1 tb SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 56 SEP 7 SEP 8 SEP 9 tb SEP Phase SEP A tb SEP Anhydrous SEP ethanol SEP 2 SEP 41 SEP 41 SEP 41 SEP 41 SEP 41.5 SEP 41 SEP 41 SEP 41 tb SEP Aluminum SEP chlorohydrex SEP 15 SEP 15 SEP 15 SEP 15 SEP 15 SEP 15 SEP 15 SEP 15 SEP IS tb SEP PPG 3 SEP myristyl SEP ether SEP 15 SEP 15 SEP 15 SEP 15 SEP 15 SEP 15 SEP 15 SEP 15 SEP 15 tb SEP Acetamide SEP HEA tb SEP Phase SEP 8 tb SEP Propylene SEP carbonate SEP SEP 20 SEP 20 SEP 20 SEP 20 SEP 20 SEP 20 SEP 20 SEP 20 SEP 20 tb SEP Acetamide SEP MEA SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 tb SEP Dlbenzylldene SEP sorbitol SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 tb SEP Zinc SEP acetate SEP 1 tb SEP Zinc SEP stearate SEP 1 tb SEP Aluminum SEP bxide SEP 1 tb SEP Calcium SEP acetate SEP 1 tb SEP Zinc SEP oxide SEP 0.5 SEP 1 tb SEP Maqnesium SEP oxide SEP 1 tb SEP Calcium SEP carbonate SEP 1 tb SEP Calcium SEP hydroxide tb SEP Sodium SEP carbonate tb Hagnesium SEP carbonate tb Zinc SEP carbonate tb Butyrolactone tb Calcium SEP oxide tb Condition SEP at SEP 60 C tb Note SEP Samples SEP are SEP removed tb from SEP study SEP if SEP very SEP soft tb or SEP liquid. SEP X tb SEP ,LCJ tb SEP eM tb SEP SEP as SEP tb SEP e SEP N SEP Cr tb SEP n SEP ,So SEP n SEP N SEP e SEP c SEP O tb SEP a SEP SEP u tb SEP o SEP w SEP O SEP vl tb SEP V SEP w SEP SEP é SEP tb SEP e SEP L SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP CJ SEP u SEP e SEP 8 SEP e tb SEP O SEP n SEP D SEP n SEP O SEP a SEP O SEP n SEP n tb SEP Cr SEP V1 SEP r SEP SEP O SEP O SEP 0 SEP w SEP r tb SEP SEP C SEP L SEP SEP 1 SEP v SEP C SEP m tb SEP a SEP L SEP a SEP e SEP W SEP s SEP u SEP L tb SEP SEP rr SEP D SEP SEP 0 SEP o SEP W SEP o SEP o SEP vi SEP TABLE 1 Cont. EMI8.1 tb SEP 10 SEP 11 SEP 12 SEP 13 SEP 14 SEP 15 SEP 16 SEP 17 SEP 18 tb SEP Phase SEP A tb SEP 41 SEP 41 SEP 41 SEP 41 SEP 4. SEP 47 SEP 4 SEP .7 SEP 10 tb SEP Anhydrous SEP ethanol tb SEP Aluminum SEP chlorohydrex SEP 15 SEP 15 SEP 15 SEP 15 SEP 15 SEP 15 SEP 15 SEP 15 SEP 15 tb SEP PPG 3 SEP myristyl SEP ether SEP 15 SEP 15 SEP 15 SEP 15 SEP 15 SEP 15 SEP 15 SEP 15 SEP 15 tb SEP Acetamide SEP HEA SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 tb SEP Phase SEP B tb SEP Propylene SEP carbonate SEP 20 SEP 20 SEP 20 SEP 23 SEP 21. tb SEP Acetanlde SEP PlEA SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 tb SEP Dlbenzylldene SEP sorbitol SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 tb SEP Zinc SEP acetate SEP 1 tb SEP Zinc SEP stearate tb SEP Aluminum SEP oxide tb SEP Calcium SEP acetate tb SEP Zinc SEP oxide tb SEP Haqnesium SEP oxide tb SEP Calcium SEP carbonate tb SEP Calcium SEP hydroxide SEP 1 tb SEP Sodium SEP carbonate SEP 1 tb SEP Magnesium SEP carbonate SEP 1 tb SEP Zinc SEP carbonate SEP 1 tb SEP Butyrolactone SEP 14 SEP 14 SEP 14 SEP 14 tb Calcium SEP oxide SEP 1 tb Condition SEP at SEP 60 C SEP SEP SEP SEP tb SEP a tb Note SEP Samples SEP are SEP removed tb SEP N SEP N SEP tb SEP N SEP V tb from SEP study SEP if SEP very SEP soft SEP S SEP un SEP tb SEP a tb or SEP liquid. SEP commat SEP V SEP C SEP C SEP 6 SEP 6 SEP a SEP tb SEP o SEP tb SEP a SEP v SEP cn SEP v SEP a tb SEP 0 tb SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP o SEP C SEP C SEP C SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP a SEP C tb SEP a SEP a SEP Cr SEP SEP a tb SEP a SEP tb SEP 0 SEP d SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP oOe SEP , SEP SEP a SEP o SEP , SEP a tb SEP U SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP a SEP U SEP v, SEP SEP 0 tb SEP L SEP L SEP L SEP L SEP cr SEP 0 SEP 57 SEP fJ SEP s tb SEP a SEP SEP a SEP N tb SEP t SEP SEP SEP SEP n SEP V, SEP SEP U, tb TABLE IIPhase 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27Anhydrous ethanol 56 55.5 55 46.5 46 46.5 46 47.3 42. Aluminum chlorohydrex 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15PPG 3 Myristyl ether 15 15 15 Acetamide HEA 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5Steareth 100 1 1Cyclomethicone 5 5Stearic acid 0.5 0. Hydroxypropyl cellulose 0.2 0.Phase 8 2 Dyrrolidone 6 6 6 Dibenzyl monosorbitol acetal 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3Zinc oxide 0.5 1 0.5 1 0.5 1 Trithylene glycol 30 30 1,3 Butylene glycol 30 30 25 25 2,4 Dihydroxy 2 3 3 methylpentane . Hard gel after Solid gel after S weeks at 60 C .. ... 10 weeks at 60 C Conclusion of study. Conclusion of study Liquid at 1 week at 60 C Liquid at 5 6 weeks at 45 C Not completely liquid by 27 weeks at 45 C