# SEMICONDUCTOR MEMORY DEVICE

## Claims
Halbleiterspeichereinrichtung mit

## Description
This invention relates to a semiconductor memory device comprising a first bit connected to memory cells each comprising a non volatile transistor a second bit line connected to memory cells each comprising a non volatile transistor data detecting and storing means which comprises a flip flop circuit provided with first and second input output nodes and, at the time of data reading, detects data while amplifying a potential difference between the first and second bit lines, and, at the time of data writing, temporarily stores data corresponding to the externally supplied writing data a first switching transistor provided between the first data input output node of said data detecting and storing means and said first bit line and a second switching transistor provided between the second data input output node of said data detecting and storing means and said second bit line. Such a device is known from 1972 Wescon Technical Papers, Volume 16, pages 1 6. A 1024 bit MNOS electrically alterable ROM , but G.C. Lockwood et al. . The present invention is applicable to an EEPROM electrically erasable and programmable read only memory . It is known that data can be read out of the EEPROM hereinafter referred to as the memory generally at as high a speed as 100 nS to 200 nS. On the contrary, the writing data in the memory can generally only ensure between 1 mS to 50 mS. Referring to the data writing time, it has been found that the writing of parallel data consumes almost as much time as the writing of individual data, therefore the application of the parallel data writing process can equivalently shorten data writing time per byte. Now let it be assumed that the process of page mode writing on the basis of the 16 bytes unit is adopted with respect to the memory wherein the writing of data actually consumes 1 mS. Then the length of time required to write 1 byte data in a memory storage is 200 nS, a period substantially the same as the access time. If, therefore, the time needed to write data in the memory storage is taken into account, per byte writing time will be 200 nS x 16 1 mS ß 16, that is, substantially 63 uS. Consequently the possibility of writing data in an extremely short period, as described above, is of great importance in the sense that EEPROMs can be applied in a very broad field. With the conventional memory which is provided with the aforementioned memory storage function and enables data to be erased and written again, it is generally the case that, the route through which data is written and the route through which data is read out are provided independently. Consequently, the conventional memory has the drawback that the circuit arrangement is unavoidably complicated. The above mentioned conventional memory possesses a function of externally indicating whether the erasing of data and the programming thereof has been brought to an end. This function is referred to as a data polling function . The conventional memory is equipped with a special control circuit in order to carry out said data polling function. However, in this respect, too, it has the drawback that the circuit arrangement is more complicated. This invention has been accomplished in view of the above mentioned circumstances and is intended to provide a semiconductor memory device equipped with a circuit arrangement capable of efficiently carrying out the page mode write in the EEPROM. According to the invention, the device initially defined is characterized by said first bit line comprising a dummy cell having a non volatile transistor said second bit line comprising a dummy cell having a non volatile transistor and first and second high voltage generators respectively connected to said first and second bit lines and arranged to boost a voltage on the respective bit lines in response to a positive voltage applied by said data detecting and storing means. In a preferred embodiment of the invention, there are further provided data output controlling means for controlling the external issue of data obtained from the first or second data input output nodes of said data detecting and storing means a pair of data input transistors respectively connected between the first and second data input output nodes of said data detecting and storing means and a prescribed potential point and data input control means for controlling said first and second data input transistors in accordance with the contents of externally supplied writing data. This invention can be more fully understood from the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which The description will now be made with reference to the accompanying drawings of a semiconductor memory device embodying the present invention. Referring to Fig. 1, reference numerals 11, 12 are bit lines. The bit line 11 is connected to a plurality of EEPROM type memory cells 15 though only one unit is shown for briefness , each of which comprises a data storing nonvolatile transistor 13 and selection transistor 14. Connected to the bit line 11 is one dummy cell 18 which comprises a selection transistor 17 and a data storing nonvolatile transistor 16 which is designed to have a conductance halfway between that conductance which is defined when the transistor 13 of the memory cell 15 stores 1 level data and that conductance which is defined when said transistor 13 stores 0 level data. The bit line 12 is connected to the same memory of the memory cells of the same type as described above though only one unit is set forth for briefness in Fig. 1 , and also to one dummy cell 18 of the same arrangement as described above. Further connected to the bit lines 11, 12 are high voltage generators 19 which are used at the time of data programming. A decoder not shown selects one of the aforementioned memory cells 15 connected to one of the bit lines 11, 12 and the dummy cell 18 connected to the other of the bit lines 11, 12. Specifically, when one of the memory cells 15 connected to the bit line 11 is selected, then the dummy cell 18 connected to the bit line 12 is selected. When, on the contrary, one of the memory cells 15 connected to the bit line 12 is selected, then the dummy cell 18 connected to the bit line 11 is selected. When the erasing and programming of data are carried out, the gate of the transistor 13 and the gate of the selection transistor 14 both included in the memory cell 15 are supplied with a voltage having a prescribed level from a device not shown . Reference numeral 20 represents a circuit designed to detect a potential difference between the bit lines 11, 12 while amplifying said difference and also to temporarily store writing data supplied from an external device not shown . The data detecting and storing circuit 20 comprises a flip flop circuit 27, P channel MOS transistor 28 as a power source switch connected between a power source voltage V Data writing transistors 41, 42 are respectively connected between the power source V Reference numeral 46 shows an input buffer for receiving write data supplied from the outside. An output data from the input buffer 46 is delivered to an input data level setting circuit 48. The input data level setting circuit 48 sends forth a pair of data complementary to the write data. The paired complementary data are respectively supplied to the gates of the transistors 41, 42. Fig. 2 indicates the concrete arrangement of the high voltage generator 19. The generator 19 comprises an already known charge pump type bootstrap circuit including transistors 51, 52, 53 and capacitor 54. The transistor 51 is impressed at one end with high voltage V When, with the high voltage generator 19, the bit line 11 has an initial potential of 0 V, the transistor 51 is kept off and the bit line potential is kept at 0 V. If the bit line has a different initial potential from 0 V, then the potential is bootstrapped to a level approximating the source voltage V Though only one circuit unit is shown for briefness in Fig. 1, the semiconductor memory device embodying this invention comprises a plurality of circuits arranged as shown in Fig. 1. A description will now be made of the operation of the subject memory device. At the time of data reading, the transistors 32, 34 are rendered conductive in advance by a read enable signal TL. As a result, the bit lines 11, 12 are connected to the data detecting and storing circuit 20. When the contents of an address signal is changed, the transistors 35, 36, 37 are rendered conductive for a prescribed period of time. Consequently, the bit lines 11, 12 are precharged up of the source voltage V At this time the flip flop circuit 31 is made ready for its operation. As a result, a potential difference between the bit lines 11, 12 rapidly increases, causing data read out of the memory cell 15 to be stored in a flip flop circuit 27. Now let it be assumed that the transistor 13 of the memory cell 15 has a higher conductance than the transistor 16 of the dummy cell 18, then data is stored in the flip flop circuit 27, while the bit line 11 is set at 0 and the bit line 12 is set at 1 level. Conversely when the transistor 13 of the selected memory cell 15 has a lower conductance than the transistor 16 of the dummy cell 18, then data is stored in the flip flop circuit 27, while the bit line 11 is kept at 1 , and the bit line 12 is kept at 1 . Data stored in the flip flop circuit 27 is level inverted by the inverter 43. The level inverted data is supplied to the setting circuit 44 and level controlled therein in such a manner as described previously. The level controlled data is issued to the outside through an output buffer 45. A description will now be made of the writing of data. In this case, data Fig. 4B to be written is supplied from the outside in synchronization with a write enable signal Fig. 5 indicates the relationship of the levels of the voltages supplied to the transistors when data erasing and programming are performed with respect to the memory cell 15 shown in Fig. 1. D represents the voltage supplied to the drain of the selection transistor 14 namely, the bit line. SG denotes the voltage supplied to the gate of the selection transistor 14. CG shows the voltage supplied to the control gate of the transistor 13. S indicates the voltage supplied to the source of the transistor 13. When, in the data erase mode, the respective voltages are set at the following levels then the threshold voltage Vth of the nonvolatile transistor 13 is set at 5 V. At this time, the logic of stored data is set at a level 1 . When the respective voltages are at the following levels In the data programming mode after data eraseing, the threshold voltage Vth of the nonvolatile transistor 13 is set at 1 V. At this time, the logic of the stored data is set at 0 . The voltage levels of Fig. 5 are given simply as a guide, because the voltages noticeably vary with the design data of the subject memory device and process parameters. While data is stored, as described above, in the data detecting circuit 20, 0 level data is written in one memory cell 15 connected to, for example, the bit line 11 in the undermentioned manner. First, the transistor 32 is rendered nonconductive and the transistor 55 is rendered conductive for a prescribed period of time, thereby causing the bit line to discharge toward the power source voltage V Thereafter, the transistors 32, 34 are rendered conductive and the bit lines 11, 12 are connected to the data detecting and storing circuit 20. At this time the circuit 20 is supplied with data which causes the data input output node 31 to be set at 1 and the data input output node 33 to be set at 0 . When, therefore, the transistors 32, 34 are rendered conductive, the bit line 11 is set at 1 , and the bit line 12 is set at 0 . Since the high voltage generator 19 carries out a bootstrapping of a potential of the bit line 11 now set at 1 , the potential of said bit line 11 is raised to about 20 volts. When, therefore, the gate voltage of the transistor 14 involved in the memory cell 15 is set at 20 V and the control gate voltage of the transistor 13 at 0 V, then 0 level data can be written. Conversely when the data detecting and storing circuit 20 is supplied with the data which sets the data input output node 31 at 0 , and the data input output node 33 at 1 , then the bit line 11 is set at 0 . Therefore, voltage bootstrapping is carried out in the high voltage generator 19 connected to the bit line 12. Even if, therefore, the gate voltage of the transistor 14 is set at 20 V, and the control gate voltage of the transistor 13 is set at 0 V, the threshold voltage Vth of the transistor 13 remains at 5 V, thereby causing 1 level data to still be stored in the memory cell 15. Since, at this time, the bit line 12 is set at 1 , the high voltage generator 19 connected to the bit line 12 performs voltage bootstrapping. Since, however, none of the memory cells 15 connected to the bit line 12 is selected the gate voltage of the selection transistor 14 is set at 0 volt , the data level does not change. As mentioned above, the data detecting and storing circuit 20 used in the semiconductor memory device of this invention is provided with a sense amplifier for detecting the potential difference between the bit lines 11, 12 and also with a data storing function at the time of data writing. Since, with the present invention, it is possible to concurrently apply part of the data writing circuit and data reading circuit, the circuit arrangement is made simpler than in the case of the conventional semiconductor memory device where said data writing circuit and data reading circuit are independently provided. Further, the circuit of the semiconductor memory device of the invention offers the advantage of easily effecting data polling. When 0 level data is read out of the memory cell 15, the bit line is set at 0 . When, however, 0 level data is stored in the memory cell 15, it is necessary to set the bit line at 1 through the input data level setting circuit 48 and transistors 41, 42. In the data erasing or data programming mode, the level of the data supplied from the input buffer 46 is inverted from that of the data issued through the inverter 43, output data level setting circuit 44 and output buffer 45. When, therefore, data reading is additionally carried out when data writing is brought to an end, and the level of the output data thus obtained is detected, then judgment can be made as to whether data is in the process of being erased or programmed or said erasing or programming has been brought to an end. This is the data polling function of EEPROM. The circuit of the semiconductor memory device of this invention can perform this function without adding any other circuit. Description may now be made of a modification of this invention with reference to Fig. 6. In the integrated circuit, the memory cell arrangement used, for example, in EEPROM generally has a smaller area than the data detecting and storing circuit 20. From the standpoint of elevating the integration degree, it is not preferred to connect the data detecting and storing circuit 20 to each of the paired bit lines 11, 12. With the modification Fig. 6 of the subject semiconductor memory device, therefore, a common data detecting and storing circuit 20 is provided for plural pairs of bit lines 11A 12A, 11B 12B, 11C 12C, ..., 11N 12N . Further, transistor 32A is connected between the bit lines 11A and the common data detecting and storing circuit 20. Transistor 32B is connected between the bit line 11B and the common data detecting and storing circuit 20. Similarly transistors 32C 32N are connected between the corresponding bit lines 11C 11N and the common data detecting and storing circuit 20. Transistor 34A is connected between the bit line 12A and the common data detecting and storing circuit 20. Transistor 34B is connected between the bit line 12B and the common data detecting and storing circuit 20. Similarly transistors 34C 34N are connected between the corresponding bit lines 12C 12N and the common data detecting and storing circuit 20. The transistors 32A 32N are controlled by the corresponding decoding signals CDA CDN issued from a column decoder not shown . Similarly, the transistors 34A 34N are controlled by the corresponding decoding signals CDA CDN delivered from said column decoder. With the modification of Fig. 6, too, the same operation as in the first embodiment of Fig. 1 is performed with respect to a column selected according to the contents of a given decoding signal. In the case of Fig. 6, the required chip area is reduced. As mentioned above, this invention provides a semiconductor memory device provided with a circuit arrangement capable of efficiently carrying out the page mode write peculiar to EEPROM.