# Histargin related compounds, a process for their preparation and their use as medicaments.

## Abstract
The present invention relates to compounds of the for mula The compounds are capable of inhibiting the action of angiotensin converting enzyme and can therefore be used as anti hypertensive agents.

## Claims
Claims 1. A compound of the formula IEMI34.1 wherein A is a residual group obtained by removing one hydrogen atom from the amino group in an amino acid excluding arginine or a lower alkyl ester thereof R is a hydrogen atom or a lower alkoxy group, or a salt thereof. 2. A compound as claimed in claim 1 wherein A is a residual group obtained by removing one hydrogen atom from the following a amino acids glycine, alanine, alpha aminobutyric acid, proline, valine, norvaline, isoleucine, alloisoleucine, leucine, norleucine, serine, homoserine, threonine, allothreonine, o methylserine, o ethylserine, o methylhomoserine, o ethylhomoserine, o methylthreonine, o ethylthreonlne, o methylallothreonine, o ethylallothreonine, ornithine, lysine, aspartic acid, glutamic acid, asparagine, glutamine, phenylalanine, tyrosine, histidine, tryptophane, cysteine, homocysteine, s methylcysteine, s ethylcysteine, methionine or ethionine. 3. A compound as claimed In claim 2 wherein the a amino residue may be any of the L , D or DL type. 4. A process for the preparation of a compound of the formula IEMI34.2 wherein A is a residual group obtained by removing one hydrogen atom from the alpha amino group in an alpha amino acid excluding arginine or a lower alkyl ester thereof R is a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group, or a salt thereof, which comprises reacting a compound of the formula orEMI35.1 EMI35.2 with an a amino acid of the formula HA, wherein A is as defined above, in the presence of a borohydride derivative, and optionally removing protective groups in a conventional manner. 5. The process as claimed in claim 4 wherein sodium cyanoborohydride is used as the borohydride derivative. 6. A pharmaceutical composition comprising as the active ingredient a compound of the formula I as defined in claim 1 or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof in association with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 7. Use of a compound as claimed in claim 1 or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof for the preparation of a medicament having antihypertensive activity. Claims for Austria 1. A process for the preparation of a compound of the formula IEMI36.1 wherein A is a residual group obtained by removing one hydrogen atom from the alpha amino group in an alpha amino acid excluding arginine or a lower alkyl ester thereof R is a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group, or a salt thereof, which comprises reacting a compound of the formula orEMI36.2 with an a amino acid of the formula HA, wherein A is as defined above, in the presence of a borohydride derivative, and optionally removing protective groups in a conventional manner. 2. The process as claimed in claim 1 wherein A is a residual group obtained by removing one hydrogen atom from the following a amino acids glycine, alanine, alpha aminobutyric acid, proline, valine, norvaline, isoleucine, alloisoleucine, leucine, norleucine, serine, homoserine, threonine, allothreonine, 0methyl serine, o ethylserine, o methylhonoserine, o ethylhomoserine, o methylthreonine, o ethylthreonine, o methylallothreonine, o ethylallothreonine, ornithine, lysine, aspartic acid, glutamic acid, asparagine, glutamine, phenylalanine, tyrosine, histidine, tryptophane, cysteine, homocysteine, s nethylcysteine, s ethylcysteine, methionine or ethionine. 3. The process as claimed n claim 2 wherein the a amino residue may be any of the L , D or DL type. 4. The process as claimed in claim 1 wherein sodium tyanoborohydride is used as the borohydride derivative.

## Description
The present invention relates to novel Histargin related compounds capable of inhibiting the action of angiotensin converting enzyme. Histargin is a compound isolated from the filtrate of a cultured broth of Histargin producing Streptomyces roseoviridis NP 118 A5 deposited under FERIM P No. 7043 .Histargin has the following chemical structure EMI1.1 Histargin has a carboxypeptidase B inhibition activity and can, therefore, be used as an analgesic or potentiation of analgesic effect because of its ability to inhibit the action of enkephalinase see Japanese PatentApplication No. 89075 1963 . Histargin is a new type of compound wherein the alpha amino groups in histidine and arginine are interbonded by an ethylene group, and physiologically active substances having a stronger inhibiting action could be found by screening Histargin analogues having the two amino acids converted to other amino acids. Histargin analogues are also suitable for use in searching for compounds having the ability to inhibit peptidases other than carboxypeptidase B and enkephalinase. The principal object of the present invention is to present a group of such Histargin related compounds. The present invention relates to Histargin related compounds of the following formula I , or salts thereof EMI2.1 wherein A is a residual group obtained by removing one hydrogen atom from the alpha amino group in an alphaamino acid excluding arginine or a lower alkyl ester thereof R is a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group . As a result of various studies on Histargin related compounds wherein the two amino acids histidine and arginine in Histargin are converted to various other amino acids or esters thereof, it has been found that the novelHistargin related compounds of formula I wherein the arginine portion in Histargin is converted to other alphaamino acids have a great ability to inhibit the action of angiotensin converting enzyme. The present invention has been accomplished on the basis of this finding. The compounds in accordance with the present invention can be used as hypotensives. Part of such compounds have the ability to inhibit the action of carboxypeptidase B and or carboxypeptidase A and can be used as reagents in biochemical studies on these enzymes. The symbol A in formula I for the compounds in accordance with the present invention represents a residual group obtained by removing one hydrogen atom from the alpha amino group in an alpha amino acid excluding arginine or a lower alkyl ester thereof said residual group is hereunder simply referred to as the alpha amino acid residue . Any such residual group that is derived from known alpha amino acids may be used as A. If the alphaamino acid residue has an optically active carbon atom, the residue may be any of the L , D or DL type. The histi dine portion in formula I may also be any of these three isomer types.Illustrative alpha amino acids are listed below glycine, alanine, alpha aminobutyric acid, proline, valine, norvaline, isoleucine, alloisoleucine, leucine, norleucine, serine, homoserine, threonine, allothreonine, o methylserine, o ethylserine, o methylhomoserine, oethylhomoserine, o methylthreonine, o ethylthreonine, omethylallothreonine, o ethylallothreonine, ornithine, lysine, aspartic acid, glutamic acid, asparagine, glutamine, phenylalanine, tyrosine, histidine, tryptophane, cysteine, homocysteine, s methylcysteine, s ethylcysteine, methionine and ethionine. The Histargin related compounds in accordance with the present invention may be handled either as intramolecular salts or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.Illustrative salts include those with pharmaceutically acceptable cations at the carboxyl group such as sodium ion, potassium ion, calcium ion and magnesium ion, as well as pharmaceutically acceptable inorganic and organic salts at the imino group, imidazolyl group or the amino group at the side chain in the alpha amino acid. As will be shown later in the Examples, the synthesis of most of the Histargin related compounds in accordance with the present invention includes as the final steps the removal of various protective groups and purification with an ion exchange resin such as Dowex 50W product of DowChemical Co. . Non crystalline compounds may be obtained as a white powder by freeze drying, whereas crystalline compounds are obtained as a colorless crystal by recrystallization. For the sake of convenience in the following description, the compound of formula I is represented by the abbreviations for the two constituent amino acids connected by C2 . For example, His C2 Phe represents a compound wherein the alpha amino groups in histidine and phenylalanine are bonded by an ethylene group. A protected Histargin related compound which is used as an intermediate for the synthesis of the compound of formula I is represented by the abbreviations for the two protected amino acids connected by C2 . For example, Z L His C2 L Lys Z OMe represents a compound wherein the a alpha amino groups in N benzyloxyearbonyl L histidine and NE benzyloxycarbonyl L lysine methyl ester are bonded by an ethylene group. Typical examples of the compound in accordance with the present invention are listed in Table 1 together with their structures, abbreviations and molecular formulas.The IR absorption spectra KBr tab. and proton NMR spectra reference sodium 2,2 dimethyl 2 silapentane 5 sulfonate DSS in D2o of the compounds wherein both amino acids are in the L form are shown in Table 2. The specific rotations and melting points of these compounds are listed in Table 3. Table 1 EMI5.1 SEP Compound SEP Molecular tb SEP No. SEP Structural SEP formula SEP Abbreviaton SEP formula tb SEP 1 SEP SEP His C2 His SEP C14H20N6O4 tb SEP 2 SEP SEP His C2 Phe SEP C17H22N4O4 tb SEP 3 SEP SEP His C2 Lys SEP C14H25N5O4 tb SEP 4 SEP SEP HIs C2 Pro SEP C13H20N4O4 tb Table 1 contd. EMI6.1 SEP Compound SEP Molecular tb SEP No. SEP Structural SEP formula SEP Abbreviaton SEP formula tb SEP 1 SEP SEP His C2 Asp SEP C12H18N4O6 tb SEP 2 SEP SEP His C2 Orn SEP C13H23N5O4 tb SEP 3 SEP SEP His C2 Phe OEt SEP C19H26N4O4 tb SEP 4 SEP SEP His OMe C2 His OMe SEP C16H24N6O4 tb Table 2 EMI7.1 SEP Compound tb SEP No. SEP IR SEP spectrum SEP cm 1 SEP Proton SEP NMR SEP apectrum SEP SEP value tb SEP 3400, SEP 3100, SEP 2840, SEP 1580, SEP 1470, SEP 1390, SEP 2.84 SEP s, SEP Ch2x2 , SEP 2.90 SEP d, SEP CH2x2, tb SEP 1340, SEP 1320, SEP 1290, SEP 1160, SEP 1100, SEP 1080, SEP J 7 SEP Hz , SEP 3.46 SEP t, SEP CHx2, SEP T 6Hz , tb SEP la SEP 1060, SEP 920, SEP 840, SEP 805, SEP 660, SEP 620, SEP 530, SEP 6.93 SEP d, SEP CHx2, SEP T 2 SEP Hz , SEP 7.85 SEP d, tb SEP 420 SEP CHx2, SEP T 2 SEP Hz tb SEP 3410, SEP 3050, SEP 2840, SEP 1575, SEP 1485, SEP 1440, SEP 3.16 SEP d, SEP CH2, SEP T 6 SEP Hz , SEP 3.27 SEP d, SEP CH2, tb SEP 1380, SEP 1340, SEP 1280, SEP 1175, SEP 1100, SEP 1070, SEP T 6 SEP Hz , SEP 3.40 SEP s, SEP CH2X2 , SEP 4.10 SEP t, SEP CH, tb SEP 2a SEP 840, SEP 820, SEP 790, SEP 770, SEP 730, SEP 690, SEP 660, SEP T 6 SEP Hz , SEP 4.19 SEP t, SEP CH, SEP T 6 SEP Hz , SEP 7.18 tb SEP 620, SEP 515, SEP 410 SEP s, SEP 6H , SEP 8.48 SEP s, SEP CH tb SEP 3400, SEP 2920, SEP 2830, SEP 1720, SEP 1580, SEP 1460, SEP 1.0 1.8 SEP m, SEP CH2x3 , SEP 2.5 3.8 SEP m, SEP 10H , tb SEP 3a SEP 1380, SEP 1340, SEP 1320, SEP 1200, SEP 1150, SEP 1090, SEP 6.74 SEP s, SEP CH , SEP 7.50 SEP s, SEP CH tb SEP 970, SEP 920, SEP 800, SEP 655, SEP 610 tb SEP 3420, SEP 2870, SEP 1630, SEP 1460, SEP 1400, SEP 1340, SEP 1.6 2.0 SEP m, SEP CH2X2 , SEP 2.5 3.9 SEP m, SEP 10H , tb SEP 4a SEP 1240, SEP 1170, SEP 1095, SEP 940, SEP 845, SEP 790, SEP 6.90 SEP s, SEP CH , SEP 7.90 SEP s, SEP CH tb SEP 670, SEP 630 tb Table 2 contd. EMI8.1 SEP Compound tb SEP No. SEP IR SEP spectrum SEP cm 1 SEP Proton SEP NMR SEP apectrum SEP SEP value tb SEP 1 SEP 3450, SEP 3025, SEP 2960, SEP 1600, SEP 1400, SEP 1300, SEP 2.85 SEP d, SEP CH2 , SEP 3.19 SEP d, SEP CH2 , SEP 3.55 SEP s, tb SEP 5a SEP 1190, SEP 1070, SEP 860, SEP 810, SEP 680, SEP 555, SEP 460 SEP CH2X2 , SEP 3.88 SEP t, SEP CH2X2 , SEP 7.16 SEP d, SEP CH , tb SEP 3425, SEP 3260, SEP 2840, SEP 1635, SEP 1585, SEP 1480, SEP 8.40 SEP d, SEP CH tb SEP 1400, SEP 1310, SEP 1295, SEP 1280, SEP 1175, SEP 1110, SEP 1.25 2.0 SEP m, SEP 4H , SEP 2.7 3.2 SEP m, SEP 8H , SEP 3.31 tb SEP 6a SEP 1060, SEP 1030, SEP 970, SEP 940, SEP 835, SEP 800, SEP 760, SEP t, SEP 1H , SEP 3.63 SEP t, SEP 1H , SEP 7.03 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 740, SEP 675 SEP 7.78 SEP s, SEP 1H tb SEP 2 SEP 3460, SEP 2955, SEP 1750, SEP 1650, SEP 1510, SEP 1460, SEP 1.10 SEP t, SEP CH3 , SEP 2.66 SEP s, SEP CH2X2 , SEP 2.95 tb SEP 1420, SEP 1210, SEP 1100, SEP 1045, SEP 765, SEP 720, SEP d, SEP CH2X2 , SEP 3.32 SEP t, SEP CH , SEP 3.53 SEP t, SEP CH , tb SEP 680, SEP 640 SEP 4.60 SEP q, SEP CH2 , SEP 6.88 SEP s, SEP CH , SEP 7.55 SEP s, SEP CH tb SEP 3 SEP 3450, SEP 2850, SEP 1750, SEP 1600, SEP 1465, SEP 1415, SEP 2.64 SEP s, SEP CH2X2 , SEP 2.94 SEP d, SEP CH2X2 , SEP 3.53 tb SEP 1230, SEP 1100, SEP 840, SEP 670, SEP 630, SEP 530 SEP t, SEP CHX2 , SEP 3.70 SEP s, SEP CH3X2 , SEP 6.87 SEP s, tb SEP 8a SEP CHX2 , SEP 7.57 SEP s, SEP CHX2 tb 1 Proton NMR spectrum obtained by measurement in D2O trifluoroacetic acid. 2 Data for the spectra of monohydrochloride. Proton NMR spectrum obtained by measurement in D MeOH. 3 Data for the spectra of dihydrochloride. Proton NMR spectrum obtained by measurement in D MeOH. Table 3EMI9.1 tb Compound SEP Specific SEP rotation tb No. SEP alpha D25 SEP SEP C SEP SEP 1, SEP 6N HCL SEP Melting SEP point tb SEP 1a SEP 17.1 SEP 227 SEP SEP 232 C tb with SEP decompn tb SEP 2a SEP 38.1 SEP 248 SEP SEP 250 C tb SEP with SEP decompn tb SEP 3a SEP 32.0 SEP tb SEP 4a SEP 24.2 SEP tb SEP 5a SEP 39.9 SEP 250 SEP SEP 252 C tb SEP with SEP decompn tb SEP 6a SEP 30.8 SEP 230 SEP SEP 235 C tb SEP with SEP decompn tb SEP 7a SEP 33.4 SEP tb SEP 8a SEP 15.3 SEP tb Non crystalline powder without distinct m.p. All of the compounds in accordance with the present invention exhibit a great ability to inhibit the action of angiotensin converting enryme. Part of the compounds also exhibit the ability to inhibit the action of carboxypeptidaseB and or carboxypeptidase A. The physiological activities of several of the compounds in accordance with the present invention are described by reference to the following test examples. 1 Inhibition of the action of carboxypeptidase B The inhibition of the action of carboxypeptidase B was determined by an improved version of the setbod for determination of the activity of angiotensin converting enzyme described in M. Hayakari et al., AnalyticalBiochemistry, 84, 361 369 1978 . The method proceeds as follows A mixture of 0.05 it of 0.05 M fibril L lysine prepared by Tanpakushitsu Kenkyu Shoreilkai with 0.25 mL of 0.05 M Tris HCL buffer solution pH 8.0 and 0.15 mL of a solution containing a test compound was heated at 37 C for 3 minutes. To the heated solution, 0.05 it of an aqueous solution containing 1 g mL of carboxypeptidase B purified from wine pancreas product of C.F. Boehringer SohneGmbH, Mannbeim and 1 mg mL of bovine albumin was added, and the mixture was subjected to reaction at 37 C for 30 minutes.The reaction was quenched by adding 0.03 it of 1 N caustic soda. Fifteen minutes later, 2 it of 0.05 M sodium phosphate buffer solution pH 7.2 was added to the reaction mixture, and color reaction was performed by addition of 2 mL of 1 cyanuric chloride in methyl cellosolve. The mixture was left at room temperature for 15 minutes and the absorbance a at 382 ar was measured. The absorbance b of a control containing no test compound was also measured by repeating the same procedure.Blank tests were also conducted to determine the corresponding absorbances a and b . In each blank test, the color reaction was performed by adding the enzyme solution after caustic soda so that no enzymatic reaction would take place. The percent inhibition of the action of carboxypeptidase B was calculated by the formula 1 a a b b l x 100. In accordance with the method shown above, compoundNon. la L His C2 L His , 2a L His C2 L Phe and 6a L His C2 L Orn exhibited 50 inhibition at concentrations of 60 g mL, 64 g mL and 112 g mL, respectively see Table 4 below . 2 Inhibition of the action of carboxypeptidase A The inhibition of the action of carboxypeptidase A was determined by the metbod described in T. Tanaka et al.,The Journal of Antibiotics, 97, 682 684 1984 . The method proceeds an follows A mixture of 0.05 mL of 0.01 M fibril L phenylalanine product of Sign Chemical Co. with 0.25 mL of 0.05 MTris HCL buffer solution pH 7.5 containing 0.9 n NaCt and 0.15 mL of a solution containing a test compound was heated at 37 C for 3 minutes. To the heated solution, 0.05 it of diluted aqueous solution of carboxypeptidase A purified from bovine pancreas product of Sigu Chemical Co. which also contained 1 mg mL of purified bovine albumin was added and the mixture was subjected to reaction at 37 C for 30 minutes.The reaction was quenched by adding 0.03 it of 1 1 caustic soda. Fifteen minutes later, 2 mL of 0.06 M sodium phosphate buffer solution pE 7.2 was added to the reaction mixture, and color reaction was performed by addition of 2 it of 1 cyanuric chloride in methyl cellosolve. The mixture was left at room temperature for 15 minutes and the absorbance a at 382 nm was measured. The absorbance b of a control containing no test compound was also measured by repeating the same procedure. Blank tests were also conducted to determine the corresponding absorbances a and b .In each blank test, the color reaction was performed by adding the enzyme solution after caustic soda so that no enzymatic reaction would take place. The percent inhibition of the action of carboxypeptidase A was calculated by the formula tl a a b b X 100. In accordance with the method shown above, compoundNo. 2a L Hin C2 L Phe exhibited 50 inhibition at a concentration of 8.4 Vg mt see Table 4 . 3 Inhibition of the action of angiotensin converting enzyme The inhibition of the action of angiotensin converting enzyme was determined by an improved version of the method for determination of the activity of angiotensin converting enzyme described in M. flayakari ot al., AnalyticalBiochemistry, 84, 361 369 1978 . The method proceeds as follows Substrate fibril L histidyl L leucine was dissolved at a concentration of 5 mg mL in Tris HCL buffer solution 0.5 M, pS 8.0 containing 0.3 H NaCt. A mixture of this solution 0.05 tt and 0.40 mL of a solution containing a test compound was heated at 37 C for 3 minutes.To the heated solution, 0.05 nit of a solution containing angiotensin converting enzyme partially purified from a bovine lung was added, and the mixture was subjected to reaction at 37iC for 30 minutes. The reaction was quenched by adding 0.03 mL of 1 N caustic soda. Fifteen minutes later, 2 int of 0.06 M sodium phosphate buffer solution pH 7.2 was added to the reaction mixture, and color reaction was performed by addition of 2 nit of 1 cyanuric chloride in methyl cellosoive. The mixture was left at room temperature for 15 minutes and the absorbance a at 382 nm was measured. The absorbance b of a control containing no test compound was also measured by repeating the same procedure. Blank tests were also conducted to determine the corresponding absorbances a and b . In each blank test, the color reaction was performed by adding the enzyme solution after caustic soda so that no enzymatic reaction would take place. The percent inhibition of the action of angiotensin converting enzyme was calculated by the formula 1 a a b b l x 100. In accordance with the method shown above, it was found that compound Nos. la to 6a listed in Table 2 exhibited strong inhibition at low concentrations see Table 4 .A particularly strong inhibition was displayed by compoundNos. la L Sis C2 L Ris and 5a L Ris C2 L AsP had IC50 508 inhibition concentration values of 0.7 g mL and 0.5 g mL, respectively. Table 4 Inhibition of carboxypeptidase B CP B , carboxypeptidase A CP A and angiotensin converting enzyme ACE by Histargin related compoundsEMI14.1 Compound SEP CP B SEP inhibition SEP CP A SEP inhibitionACE SEP inhibi SEP tb SEP SEP IC50, tb SEP No. SEP IC50, SEP g ml SEP IC50, SEP g ml SEP mg ml tb SEP la SEP 60 SEP 200 SEP 0.7 tb SEP 2a SEP 64 SEP 8.4 SEP 1.2 tb SEP 3a SEP 200 SEP 200 SEP 4.0 tb SEP 4a SEP 200 SEP 200 SEP 1.0 tb SEP 5a SEP 200 SEP 200 SEP 0.5 tb SEP 6a SEP 112 SEP 200 SEP 1.7 tb 200 SEP 146 SEP 24 tb Due to the angiotensin converting enzyme ACE inhibiting activity the compounds of the present invention can be used as anti hypertensive agents.Acute toxicity Each of the compounds in accordance with the present invention has low toxicity and can safely be used as a medicine. The results of an acute toxicity test oonducted by intraperitoneal administration of rats with compound Nos. la to Sa are summarized in Table 5. Table 5CompoundNo. Test results la No toxicity observed upon administration of 400 mg kg. 2a No toxicity observed upon administration of 100 mg kg. 3a No toxicity observed upon administration of 400 ig kg. 4a No toxicity observed upon administration of 400 mg kg. Sa No toxicity observed upon administration of 400 mg kg. The Histargin related compounds of the present invention are novel substances and may be prepared by the following procedures. The conventional synthetic compounds wherein the alpha amino groups in to alpha amino acids are bound by an ethylene group are liniited to those wherein the two alpha amino acids are identical, and such compounds have been prepared by condensing the alpha amino acid with 1,2 dibromoethane see Inorganic Chemistry, 7, 2405 1968 1. No method of synthesis has been reported that unes histidine as the alpha amino acid. The e Histargin related compounds of the present invention contain two different alpha amino acids, and if they are reacted with 1,2 dibrooethane within the same reaction vessel, a complex product results and considerable difficulties are involved in purifying the product. The present inventors have found that these problems can be solved by performing the synthesis stepwise as shown below. Hintargin is first reacted with a 2 halogeno 1,1 dialkoxyethane of formula II EMI16.1 wherein X in a halogen atom and R1 is a lower alkyl group so as to form Na 2,2 dialkoxyethyl histidine of formula III EMI16.2 wherein Rl is a lower alkyl group . Compounds of formula II are commercially available and they include 2 bromoacetaldehyde diethyl acetal, 2 bromoacetaldehyde dimethyl acetal, 2 chloroacetaldehyde diethyl acetal and 2 chloroacetaldehyde dimethyl acetal. Subsequently, the alpha amino group in the histidine portion in formula III is protected by an amino protecting group such as a benzyloxycarbonyl group. The aldehyde protecting group is then removed by an acid treatment so as to form an N formylmethyl derivative of formula IV EMI17.1 wherein R2 is an amino protecting group . The compound of formula IV has the cyclic structure represented by formula IV EMI17.2 wherein R2 is an amino protective group . Compound IV is reacted, in the presence of a borohydride derivative, such as sodium cyanoborohydride, tri tert. butoxy borohydride, di si amylborane, thexylborane or the borane THF complex, with an alpha amino acid which may be protected if it has a functional group in the side chain or one having protect ed carboxyl groups.Finally, any protective group is re moved, thus providing the compound of formula I . Examples of the alpha amino acid derivative that is reacted with the compound of formula IV for synthesizing the typical compounds listed in Table 1 include L histidine methyl ester dihydrochloride, L phenylalanine ethyl enter monohydrochloride, N benzyloxycarbonyl L lynine methyl ester monohydrochloride, L proline benzyl ester monohydrochloride, and L aspartic acid ,ss dibenzyl ester tosylate. Alpha amino acids having unprotected carboxyl groups may also be used.In accordance with an alternative method for synthesizing the compound of formula I , an alpha amino acid corresponding toA in formula I is used as the starting material, which is condensed with the compound of formula II , and following the conversion described above, histidine or a protected form thereof is subjected to reaction so as to obtain the desired derivative. Among the typical compounds listed in Table 1, L C2 L Orn indicated by compound No. 6a may also be produced by obtaining natural Histargin from the filtrate of a cultured broth of Histargin producing microorganism of the genus Streptomyces and then by converting the guanidyl group in that Histargin to an amino group. The compounds synthesized by the methods shown above may be esterified by conventional techniques so as to obtain compounds wherein all the carboxyl groups present are esterified. The intermediates for the synthesis shown above may have part of the carboxyl groups protected by an ester in this case, Histargin related compounds having part of the carboxyl groups esterified may be obtained by leaving the ester intact and removing any other protective groups.Examples The following are provided as further illustrations of the invented compound and are not to be construed as limiting. Example 1 1 Synthesis of Na 2,2 diethoxyethyl L histidine Fifty grams 0.32 mol of L histidine and 44.5 g of potassium carbonate anhydrous were dissolved in a mixture of ethanol 500 ot and water 500 nit . To the solution, 63.5 g 0.32 mol of bromoacetaldehyde diethyl acctal was added and the mixture was heated under reflux for a day.After cooling, the mixture was diluted with 1,000 mt of water, adjusted to a pH of 6.8, and had the ethanol distilled off under vacuum. The precipitate of unreacted L histidine was filtered off, and the aqueous layer was washed trice with ethyl acetate, followed by concentration to 500 it under vacuum. To the concentrated aqueous layer, 29.2 g of sodium chloride NaCt was added to form a 0.5 M NaCt solution.This solution was passed through a column that had been filled with 2,000 ILL of Dialion HP 20 product of MitsubishiChemical Industries Limited preconditioned with 0.5 M NaCt.After solution with 6,000 ml of 0.5 M Nail, 15,000 nit of water and 7,000 ml of 20 methanol, the fractions containing the end compound were collected and evaporated to dryness under vacuum. Ethanol 150 ml was added to the residual solid and the insoluble NaCt was filtered off. The above procedure was repeated twice, and the obtained filtrate was crystallized with ethyl ethanol, thereby obtaining 31.8 g of diethoxyethyl L histidine.Yield 36.3 m.p. 160 162 C. alpha D25 27.4 c 1, methanol IR KBr v cm 1 c 2970, 2870, 1645, 1580, 1570, 1450, 1380, 1300, 1125, 1090, 1065, 845, 800, 630, 550, 480, NMR d MeOH 1.20 t, CH3 x 2, T 7 Hz , 3.0 3.5 m, CH2 x 2 , 3.5 X 4.0 m, 5 H , 4.79 t, CH, T m 5 Hz , 6.98 s, CH , 7.62 s, Cli . Example 1 2 Synthesis of N alpha benzyloxycarbonyl N alpha 2,2 diethoxyethyl L histidine 19.5 g 71.7 ol of N 2,2 diethoxyethyl L histidine was dissolved in 71.7 ml of 1 N NaOH. With vigorous stirring under cooling with ice, 22.6 it of benzyoxycarbonyl chloride was added in five portions at 10 minute intervals. Throughout this addition, the pH of the reaction mixture was held at between 9.0 and 10.0 with 2 NNaOB. Following the addition of the reagent, the fixture was stirred for another 2 hours.Three extractlons were conducted with cthyl acetate 150 ml , and the combined ethyl acetate layers were washed twice, each time with l N HCt and saturated NaCt, followed by drying with anhydrous sodium sulfate. By distilling off the solvent, 40.1 g of N a dibenzyloxycarbonyl N alpha 2,2 diethoxyethyl L histidine was obtained this product was subsequently dissolved in 250 ml of dry methanol and mixed under agitation with 27.7 nit of a methanol solution of 28 sodium methylate for 2.5 hrs at room temperature. The reaction mixture was diluted with 250 nit of water, adjusted to a pH of 7.0 and had the methanol distilled off under vacuum. The resulting aqueous layer was washed twice with ethyl acetate. The aqueous layer was evaporated to dryness under vacuum, and after adding a small amount of methanol to the residue, the insoluble NaCt was filtered off. The procedures shown above were repeated twice, and the resulting filtrate was concentrated under vacuum to obtain 26.0 g of syrupy Nalpha benzyloxycarbonyl N alpha 2,2 diethoxyethyl L histidine. Yield 89.3 alpha 25 58.8 1 MeOH . D lR KBr V cm 1 3380, 2960, 1680, 1600, 1460, 1450, 1390, 1340, 1250, 1125, 1050, 1000, 110, 760. 690 NMR d MeOH 6 1.05 t, CH3 x 2, T 6 Hz , 3.0 X 4.0 m, 9 H , 4.5 m, 1 H , 5.10 s, CH2 , 6.70 s, CH , 7.32 s, 5 H , 7.60 s, CR . Example 1 3 Synthesis of N alpha benzyloxycarbonyl N alpha formylmethyl L histidine 25.9 g 63.9 mmol of N alpha benzyloxycarbonyl N alpha 2,2 diethoxyethyl L histidine was dissolved in a mixture of ethanol 60 ml and water 140 nit . To the solution, 1 NHCl was added and the mixture was stirred for 4 hrs at room temperature. Thereafter, the reaction mixture was adjusted to a pH of 7.0 and the ethanol was distilled off under vacuum. The aqueous layer was passed through a column packed with 4,000 ml of Diaion HP 20. After rinsing with 4,000 ml of water, the column was eluted with 25 methanol.The fractions containing the end compound were collected and concentrated under vacuum to obtain 15.1 g of a pale yellow powder of N alpha benzyloxycarbonyl N alpha formylmethyl L histidine Yield 71.5 alpha D25 13.1 c 1, MeOH IR KBr V cm 1 1 3450, 2950, 1700, 1600, 1420, 1370, 1310, 1260, 1220, 1190, 1130, 1110, 990, 825, 785, 740, 705, 670 NMR d MeOH 6 3.1 X 3.4 2 H , 3.9 X 4.2 m, 2 B , 4.3 4.7 m, 1 B , 5.09 s, CH2 , 5.6 s 5.9 m, 1 B , 6.70 5, 1 H , 7.28 and 7.32 each s, 5 B , 7.65 5, 1 H . example I 4 Synthesis of L His C2 L His compound No. la A ethanol 20 ml solution of 1.72 g 5.2 mmol of N alpha benzyloxycarbonyl N alpha formylmethyl Lhistidine was mixed with a solution that comprised 2.52 g 10.4 mmol ofL histidine methyl ester dihydrochloride in 10 ml of water and which had been adjusted to a pH of 6.7. With stirring under cooling with ice, 327 ig 5.2 smol of sodium cyanoborohydride was added in small portions.Thereafter, the reaction mixture was stirred for an additional 4 hours at room temperature and concentrated under vacuum. The resulting residue was dissolved in 10 nit of water and passed through a column packed with 500 nit of After rinsing with 1,500 nit of water, the column was eluted with 3,000 nit of 25 methanol and 3,000 ml of 50 methanol. The fractions containing the end compound were collected and concentrated under vacuum to obtain 2.29 g ofZ L His C2 L His Ome. This compound had characteristic signals at 6 3.69 s, CH3 , 5.03 5, CH2 and 7.28 s, 5H in the NMR spectrum d MeOH .This compound was dissolved in methanol 40 ml and mixed under agitation with 13 it of 1 NNaOH for 3.5 hrs at room temperature. Thereafter, the reaction mixture was adjusted to a pH of 6.8 and had the ethanol distilled off under vacuum. The resulting aqueous layer was passed through a column packed with 350 ml of Diaion HP 20. Following rinsing with 1,000 it of water, the column was eluted with 25 methanol. The fractions containing the end compound were concentrated under vacuum to obtain 1.12 g of 2 L His C2 L His total yield 45.8t . Thin compound had characteristic signals at 2.6 3.5 m, CH2 x 4 , 4.2 4.6 m, CH x 4 , 5.00 s, CH2 , 6.56 5, CH , 6.80 8t CH , 7.23 s, 5H and 7.45 s, CH x 2 in the NMR spectrum d MeOH . A portion 465 mg of the Z L His C2 L His was dissolved in a mixture of ethanol 5 ml. and water 5 ml .To the resulting mixture, 3 it of 1 N HCL and 25 mg of 10b Pd carbon were added, followed by stirring for 3.5 hours under a hydrogen stream. The catalyst was filtered off and the filtrate was passed through a column packed with 50 m2 of Dowex 50W x 8 H type, product of Dow Chemical Co. , and following rinsing with 200 it of water, the fractions containing the end compound were collected and concentrated under vacuum. me residue was crystallized from ethanol to obtain 225 mg of the end compound, L His C2 L His.Yield 67.0 , m.p. 227 232 C with decompn . 25 alpha 25 . Example 2 Synthesis of L His C2 L Phe compound No. 2a Reaction was performed as in Example 1 4 by using 9110 mg 2.8 mmol of N alpha benzyloxycarbonyl N alpha formylmethyl L histidine, 1.262 g 5.5 mmol of L phenylalanine ethyl ester monohydrochloride and 173 mg 2.8 mmol of sodium borohydride.The reaction fixture was purified on a column p packed d with 250 ml of Diaion HP 20, thereby obtaining 1.39 g of Z L HisC2 L PHe OEt. Thin compound had characteristic signals at 1.17 t, CH3, T 7 Hz , 4.10 q, CH2, T 7 Hz , 5.00 5, CH2 , 7.20 5, SH and 7.27 s, 5H in the NMR spectrum d MeOH . Tbis compound was hydrolyzed as in Example 1 4 and purified on a column packed with 250 it of Diaion HP 20, thereby obtaining 773 mg of Z L His C2 L Phe total yield 58.5 . A portion 716 mg of Z L His C2 L Phe, 4.5 it of 1 NHCl and 50 mg of 10 Pd carbon were subjected to the same reaction as in Example 1 4, and the reaction product was purified on a column packed with 50 ml of Dowex 50 W x 8 B type . Crystallisation fro ethanol produced 277 ig of the end compound, L His C2 L Phe. Yield 53.7 . .p. 248 250 C with decompn . alpha D25 38.1 c 1, 6 N HCl . Example 3 Synthesis of L His C2 L Lys compound No. 3a Reaction was performed as in Example 1 4 by using 1.71 g 5.2 mmol of N alpha benzyloxycarbonyl N alpha formylmethyl L histidine, 2.30 g 6.9 mmol of N alpha benzyloxycarbonyl L LYsine methyl ester monohydrochloride and 324 mg 5.2 mmol of sodium cyanoborohydride. The reaction mixture was purified on a column packed with 500 ml of Diaion HP 20. From the eluate with 75 sethanol, 3.27 g of a residue comprising Z L His C2L Lys Z OMe was obtained. This compound had characteristic signals et 3.72 s, CH3 , 5.02 s, CH2 x 2 and 7.29 s, 10H in the NMR spectrum d MeOH . This compound was hydrolyzed an in Example 1 4 and purified on a column packed with 500 it of DiaionR HP 2O. From the eluate with 75 methanol, 1.93 g of Z L His C2 LLYs Z was obtained total yield 62.6 . Thin compound had characteristic signals at 8 1.2 2.1 m, CH2 x 3 , 2.8 3.6 m, CH2 x 5 , 4.2 4.7 m, CH x 2 , 5.04 s, CH2 , 5.07 s, CH2 , 6.85 s, CH , 7.30 s, 5H and 8.03 s, CH in theNMR spectrum d MeOH . A portion 1.88 g of the Z L His C2 L Lys Z , 9.6 mt of 1 1 HCl and 100 mg of 10 Pd carbon were subjected to the same reaction an in Example 1 4. After filtering off the catalyst, the filtrate was concentrated under vacuum and the residue was dissolved in 10 it of water.The solution was passed through a column packed with 150 it of CM Cephadex C 25 Na type, product of Pharmacia Labs., Inc. , gradient elution with 1, 000 ml of water and 1,000 ml of 1 n NaCt was perforied. The fractions containing the end compound were collected, and the combined fractions were passed through a column packed with 50 ml of Dowex 50 W x 8 H type , and following rinsing with water, the column was eluted with 2 N lH4OH. The fractions containing the end compound were collected and concentrated under vacuum.The resulting residue pow er was dissolved in 2 ml of water and freeze dried to pro 3uce 219 mg of L His C2 L Lys as a white powder. Yield 23.1 alpha D25 32.0 c 1, 6N HCl .Example 4 Synthesis of L His C2 L Pro compound No. 4a Reaction was performed as in Example 1 4 by using 4.73 g 14.3 mmol of N alpha benzyloxycarbonyl N alpha formylmethyl L histidine, 6.88 g 28.6 mmol of L proline benzyl ester monohydrochloride and 899 mg 14.3 mmol of sodium cyanoborohydride. The reaction product was purified on a column packed with 1,000 it of Diaion HP 20, and from the eluate with 75 , 2.21 g of Z L His C2 L Pro.OBzl was obtained.This compound had characteristic signals at รณ 1.7 2.4 m, CH2 x 2 , 2.8 3.8 s, CH2 x 4 , 4.2 4.7 s, CH x 2 , 5.00 5, CH2 , 5.10 s, CH2 , 6.72 s, CH , 7.22 s, 5H , 7.27 s, 5H and 7.80 5, CH in the NMR spectrunm d MeOH . Using 2.10 g ofZ L His C2 L Pro.OBzl, 12 ml of 1 N HCl and 100 Mg of 10 Pd carbon, a subsequent reaction was performed as in Example t 4. The catalyst was filtered off and the filtrate was concentrated under vacuum, and the residue was diesolved in 10 it of water.The solution wan passed through a column packed with 300 it of CM Cephadex C 25 Ma type ala the column was eluted with water. The fractions containing the end compound were collected and passed through a column packed with 100 ml of Dowex 50 W x 8 H type . Following rinsing with water, the column was eluted with 2 1 MH4OH.The fractions containing the end compound were collected and concentrated under vacuum. The resulting residue was dissolved in 5 it of water, and the solution was fr5eeze dried to give 646 mg of L His C2 L Pro as a white powder.Total yield 15.8 . alpha 25 24.2 c 1, 6 N HCl .Example 5 Synthesis of L His C2 L Asp compound No. Sa Reaction was conducted as in Example 1 w 4 using 2.00 g 6.1 mmol of N alpha benzyloxycarbonyl N alpha formylmethyl L histidine, 1.61 g 12.1 nol of L aspartic acid and 380 mg 6.1 nol of sodium cyanoborohydride. The reaction fixture was passed through a column packed with 250 ml of Diai HP 20 that had been conditioned with 0.5 M NaCl. After rinsing with 1,000 it of 0.5 N NaCl, the column was eluted with water.The fractions containing the end compound were collected and concentrated under vacuum to obtain 292 ig ofZ L His C2 L Asp. Using 292 mg of the Z L His C2 L Asp, 2 ml of 1 N HCl and 20 mg of 10 Pd carbon, a subsequent reaction was performed as in Example 1 4. The filtrate was passed through a column packed with 100 ml of CM Cephadex C 25 Na type and the column eluted with water. The fraction containing the end compound were collected and concentrated under vacuum. The resulting residue was subjected to preparatory thin layer chromatography on silica gel 60 F254 that was produced byMerck Co. and had a thickness of 2 mm. After development with ethanol C NH4OH 1 1 , the band containing the end compound Rf 0.67 was scraped and eluted with ethanol C NH40H 1 1 .The eluate was concentrated under vaccum and the resulting residue was passed through a column packed with 20 ml of Dowels 50 W x 8 H type . After rinsing with water, the column was eluted with 2 N NH4OH. The fractions containing the end compound were collected and concentrated under vacuum. The resulting residue was crystallized from methanol to obtain 10.7 mg of L His C2 L Asp. m.p. 250 252 C with decompn . 25 alpha 39.9 c 1, 6 N HCL . Izaiple 6 Synthesis of L His C2 L Asp compound No. 5a by alternative route Reaction was performed as in Example 1 4 using 3.00 g 9.1 mmol of N alpha benzyloxycarbonyl N alpha formylmethyl L histidine, 8.79 g 18.1 mmol of L aspartic acid alpha ,ss dibenzyl ester tosylate and 569 mg 9.1 mmol of sodium borohydride.The reaction fixture was concentrated under vacuum and the resulting residue was dissolved in 20 it of water and washed twice with ethyl acetate. The aqueous layer wan concentrated under vacuvm to half its volume and passed through a column packed with 200 ml of Diaion HP 20. After rinsing with 300 it of water and 300 it of 50 methanol, the column was voluted with methanol.The fractions containing the end compound were collected and concentrated under vacuum to obtain 2.52 g of L L His C2 L Asp OBzl OBzl. Using 2.34 g of Z L His C2 L Asp OBzl OBzl, 10 it of 1 N BCt and 200 mg of 10 Pd carbon, a subsequent reaction was conducted an in Example 1 4. Thereafter, the catalyst was filtered off and the filtrate was concentrated under vacuum.The resulting residue was dissolved in 10 it of water and the solution was passed through a column packed with 250 it of Diaion HP 20 and the column was eluted with water. The fractions containing the end compound were collected and concentrated under vacuum. The resulting residue was crystallized from methanol to obtain 314 mg of L His C2 L Asp.Total yield 11.8 . Xsaple 7 Synthesis of L His C2 L Orn compound No. 6a Bistargin 268 mg obtained fro the filtrate of a cultured broth was dissolved in 40 it of saturated aqueous barium hydroxide, and the solution was heated under reflux in an oil bath 105 C for 2 brs. After cooling, carbon dioxide was blown into the reaction mixture and the resulting precipitate was filtered off. The filtrate was passed through a column packed with 45 ml of Dowex 50 W x 4v H type .After rinsing with water, the column was eluted with AS H4OH. The fractions containing the end compound were collected and evaporated to dryness under vacuum, thereby producing a crude powder 224 mg . This powder wan dissolved in 10 it of 1 N pyridine acetic acid buffer solution pH 5.0 . The resulting solution was passed through a column packed with 80 nit of 50 W X 4 Py type that had been equilibrated with the same buffer. After elution wiht the same buffer, the fractions containing the end compound were collected and adsorbed on 80 ml of Dowex 50 W x 4 H type .After rinsing with water, the column was eluted with 25 NH4OH. The fractions containing the end compound were collected and concentrated under vacuum. The resulting residue was dissolved in 2 it of water and freeze dried to give 91.5 mg of L His C2 L Orn as a white powder. 25 alpha 30.8 lc 1, 6 N HCt .Example 8 Synthesis of L His C2 L Phe OEt compound NO. 7a A portion 301 mg of the Z L His C2 L Phe OEt obtained in Example 2 was dissolved in 10 ml of a mixture of ethanol and water 1 1 . To the resulting solution, 1.7 ml of 1 N HC1 and 25 mg of 10 Pd carbon were added and the mixture was agitated in a hydrogen stream for 4 hrs. Thereafter, the catalyst was filtered off and the filtrate was neutralized and concentrated under vacuum to half its volume. The filtrate was then passed through r column packed with 300 mt of CM Cephadex C 25 Na type and the column was eluted with water. The fractions containing the end compound were collected and concentrated under vacuum.The resulting residue was dissolved in 1 it of methanol and the solution was passed through a column packed with 100 ml of CephadexR LE 20 Pharmacia Labs., Inc. . After elution with methanol, the fractions containing the end compound were collected and concentrated under vacuum. The resulting residue was dissolved in 1 it of water and freeze dried to give 60.5 mg of a ionohydrochloride of L His C2 L Phe OEt as a white powder alpha D25 33.4 c 1, 6 N ECl . Maple 9 Synthesis of L His OMe C2 L His OMe compound No. 9a A portion 1.05 q of the Z L His C2 L His OMe obtained in Example 1 8 was dissolved in 10 ml of methanol and methylated by adding a diazomethane ether solution under cooling with ice.After distilling off the solvent, the residue was dissolved in 15 it of an ethanol water 1 1 mixture. To the resulting solution, 5 it of 1 N HCl and 150 it of 10t Pd carbon were added and the mixture was stirred for 3.5 hrs in a hydrogen strew. The catalyst was filtered off and the filtrate was neutralized. Thereafter, the filtrate was concentrated under vacuum to half its volume and passed through a column packed with 200 it of CM Cephadex C 25 Na type .The column was subjected to gradient elation with 1,500 it of water and an equal volume of 1 N NaCl. The fractions containing the end compound were collected and concentrated under vacuum. The resulting residue was dissolved in 5 ml of methanol and the insoluble NaCl was filtered off. These procedures were repeated twice. The residue was dissolved in 2 ml of methanol and the solution was passed through a column packed with 150 it of Cephadex LH 20, followed by elution with methanol. The fractions containing the end compound were collected and concentrated under vacuum. The resulting residue was dissolved in 2 it of water and freeze dried to obtain 176 ig of an L His OMe C2 L His OMe dihydrochloride as a white powder. 25 alpha D 15.3 c 1. C 1 HCl .Advantages of the Invention As will be apparent from the foregoing description, the present invention provides a Histargin related compound that exhibits a great ability to inhibit the action of angiotensin transferase and which bence is useful as a hypotensive.