# Optical isomer of triazolylpentenols, and their production and use as fungicide herbicide and or plant growth regulant.

## Abstract
Triazolyl alcohol derivative having an optical activity of or and represented by the general formula I , CHEM wherein X represents a hydrogen atom or a chlorine atom and the asterisk indicates an asymmetric carbon atom, are prepared by stereospecific reduction of the corresponding ketone or by resolution of the racemate. The isomer is useful as a fungicide while the isomer is useful as a plant growth regulant or herbicide.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. The triazolyl alcohol derivative represented by the general formula,EMI62.1 wherein the asterisk indicates an asymmetric carbon atom, and having E geometry and an optical activity of . 2. A process for producing the triazolyl alcohol derivative defined in claim 1 which comprises asymmetrically reducing the triazolyl alcohol derivative represented by the general formula,EMI62.2 with a chiral reducing agent of the modified lithium aluminum hydride type formed by partial decomposition of lithium aluminum hydride with an optically active alcohol. 3. A process according to claim 2, wherein use is made of the chiral reducing agent of the modified lithium aluminum hydride type prepared from 1 equivalent of lithium aluminum hydride, 1 equivalent of an N substituted ephedrine and 2 equivalents of anN alkylaniline. 4. A process according to claim 2, wherein use is made of the chiral reducing agent of the modified lithium aluminum hydride type prepared from 1 equivalent of lithium aluminum hydride, 1 equivalent of 2 N,Ndisubstituted amino l phenylethanol, and 2 equivalents of an N alkylaniline. 5. A process according to claim 2, wherein use is made of the chiral reducing agent of the modified lithium aluminum hydride type prepared from 1 equivalent of lithium aluminum hydride, 2 to 3 equivalents of menthol. 6. A process for producing the triazolyl alcohol derivative defined in claim 1 which comprises allowing a racemate of the triazolyl alcohol derivative represented by the general formula, EMI64.1 to react with a reactive derivative of an optically active carboxylic acid to form two diastereomeric esters, isolating the ester of the isomer and hydrolyzing the isolated ester. 7. A process according to claim 6, wherein menthoxylacetyl chloride is used as the reactive derivative of an optically active carboxylic acid. 8. A fungicidal composition containing as an active ingredient the triazolyl alcohol derivative defined in claim 1. 9. A method for killing a fungus in agriculture or horticulture, which comprises applying a fungicidal composition according to claim 8 to the fungus.

## Description
OPTICAL ISOMER OF.TRIAZOLYLPENTENOLS, AND THEIR PRODUCTION AND USE AS FUNGICIDE, HERBICIDE AND OR PLANT GROWTH REGULANT This invention relates to an optically active triazolyl alcohol derivative having an optical activity of either or , and which may be represented by the general formula I ,EMI1.1 wherein X represents a hydrogen atom or a chlorine atom and the asterisk indicates an asymmetric carbon atom, a process for preparing same, and a fungicide containing same as active ingredient. The racemic triazolyl alcohol derivatives and their excellent fungicidal, plant growth regulatory, and herbicidal activities have already been described inJapanese Patent Application okai Laid open No. 124,771 1980 and Japanese Patent Application No.100,547 1980. Triazolyl alcohol derivatives represented by the general formula I have optical isomers due to the asymmetric carbon atom C . The triazolyl alcohol derivative I having an optical activity of , as above referred to, is an optical isomer which shows an optical rotation of , as measured in chloroform with sodium D line, and is hereinafter referred to as triazolyl alcohol derivative. On the other hand, another isomer which shows an optical rotation of is hereinafter referred to as triazolyl alcohol derivative. Salts of the triazolyl alcohol derivatives are also included in the scope of this invention. These salts are salts with the plant physiologically tolerable acids.Examples of such acids include hydrogen halides such as hydrobromic acid, hydrochloric acid and hydroiodic acid carboxylic acids such as acetic acid, trichloroacetic acid, maleic acid and succinic acid sulfonic acids such as p toluenesulfonic acid and methanesulfonic acid nitric acid, sulfuric acid, and phosphoric acid.These salts are obtained in a customary manner. The present inventors examined in detail the usefulness of or triazolyl alcohol derivatives I obtained by the process of this invention. Upon comparison of , and racemic triazolyl alcohol derivatives with one another, it was found that the fungicidal activity falls in the order trizolyl alcohol derivative racemic triazolyl alcohol derivative triazolyl alcohol derivative, whilst the plant growth regulatory activity and the herbicidal activity are in the order triazolyl alcohol derivative racemic triazolylalcohol derivative triazolyl alcohol derivative. In short, the present inventors have discovered an entirely new fact that a triazolyl alcohol derivative exhibits an excellent fungicidal activity, while a triazolyl alcohol derivative exhibits an excellent plant growth regulatory activity and herbicidal activity. The present invention contributes much to the plant disease control or to the cultivation or more resistive plant in the fields of agriculture and horticulture. For instance, application of a more active chemical is connected to adequate application of a smaller amount of the chemical, which leads to the improve ment in economics of the processes of manufacture, transportation and field application and to the expectation of minimizing the environmental pollution as well as the improvement in safety. In applying triazolyl alcohol derivatives as a fungicide, no harmful effect on the plant will be exhibited even if an excess of the compound has been applied by the misuse and, hence, it is safely used in controlling injurious plant diseases. The plant diseases which can be effectively controlled by triazolyl alcohol derivatives include blast and sheath blight of rice plant canker, blossom blight, powdery mildew, scab, fruit spot and alternawia leaf spot of apple, black spot, powdery mildew, rust scald, leaf stripe, loose smut, covered smut, snow blight and black rust of barley brown rust, loose smut, stinking smut, speckled leaf blotch, glume blotch, yellow rust, stem rust and powdery mildew of wheat powdery mildew, gray mold, gummy stem blight, sclerotinia rot and anthracnose of melons leaf mold, powdery mildew and early blight of tomato gray mold, verticillium wilt and powdery mildew of eggplant powdery mildew of pimento gray mold and powdery mildew of strawberry brown spot and powdery mildew of tobacco cerespora leaf spot of sugar beet and leaf spot of peanut. As stated above, the triazolyl alcohol derivatives can be utilized as plant growth regulators to regulate the growth of useful plants. For instance, they can be applied to keep the rice plant, wheat and barley, lawn grass, heage plants and fruit trees from spindle growth and also to effect dwarfing of potted garden plants such as chrysanthemum, pansy, poinsettia, azalea, rhododendran and the like. In rice cropping and wheat or barley cropping, the lodging of rice, wheat or barley plant caused by excessive application of fertilizers or by the gale often presents an important problem. By applying a triazolyl alcohol derivative to rice, wheat or barley in a proper stage of growth, the spindling can be suppressed so that the plant height may be suitably controlled to keep effectively the plant from lodging.In the cultivation of chrysanthemum in pot, application of the compound results in a reduction in the stem length without inJurious effect 6n the flower, thus improving the commercial value of the plant. Further, the triazolyl alcohol derivatives exhibit a strong herbicidal activity against gramineous weeds such as barnyard millet, large crabgrass and green foxtail cyperaceous weeds such as purple nutsedge broad leaved weeds in upland field such as green amaranth, fat hen, common purslane and common chickweed annual and perennial weeds in paddy field such as barnyardgrass, monochoria, spike flowered rotala, Dapatrium junceum, bulrush and slender spikerush. When applied to an upland field, the triazolyl alcohol derivatives exhibit a strong activity against principal weeds and are effective for the preemergence treatment of soil as well as for the foliage treatment in an early stage of growth. The compounds have tremendous advantages in that they have no harmful effect on principal crops such as rice, soybean, cotton, corn, peanut, sunflower and sugar beet and can be safely used also for the vegetables such as lettuce, radish and tomato. The compounds, therefore, are useful for the weeding of a variety of grain fields, vegetable garden, orchard, lawn, pasture, tea field, mulberry field, rubber plantation, forest land, non cultivation field, etc.It was found, moreover, that the compounds are highly nontoxic to mammals and fishes and are substantially harmless to agriculturally useful crops. The methods for preparing the or triazolyl alcohol derivatives include those used in preparing conventional optically active substances such as the asymmetric reduction and the resolution of the diastereomer obtained from a racemate and an optically active reactive compound. These methods are described below in detail. 1 Preparation by asymmetric reduction. The racemate of the present compound is obtained by reducing a ketone compound represented by the general formula II with a metal hydrogen complex such as lithium aluminum hydride LiAlH4 or sodium borohydride NaBH4 Japanese Patent Publication Kokai Laid open No. 124,771 1980 .EMI6.1 wherein X represents a hydrogen or chlorine atom. The asymmetric reduction is commonly conducted by utilizing the enantioselective reaction which takes place when a ketone compound II is reduced with a chiral metalhydrogen complex. A few of such procedures are described below. a It is a general practice to use as the chiral metal hydrogen complex a reducing agent of the chiral modified lithium aluminum hydride type formed by the partial decomposition of lithium aluminum hydride with an optically active alcohol Literature Tetrahedron Letters, Vol. 29, 913 1973 Bull. Soc. Chim. Fr., 1968, 3795 J. Org. Chem., 38 10 , 1973 Tetrahedron Letters, Vol. 36, 3165 1976 1. Among examples of the optically active alcohols used in this invention as asymmetric source, may be ciec or or menthol, or borneol, or Nmethylephedrine, and or 2 N,N dimethylamino lphenylethanol. It is of course possible to use either of the optically active forms of other optically active alcohols including alkaloids, carbohydrates and amino alcohols such as, for example, quinine, cis Myrtanol, 2 N benzyl N methylamino l phenylethanol and 4 dimethy amino 3 methyl l,2 diphenyl 2 butanol. The formation of a chiral modified lithium aluminum hydride reducing agent using an optically active alcohol as asymmetric source car be effected by adding 1 to 3 equivalent ratio of the optically active alcohol to one equivalent ratio of lifihi aluminum hydride suspended in a suitable solvent. It is a general practice to use as the solvent an ether such as diethyl ether, tetrahydrofuran or dioxane, though an aromatic hydrocarbon such as benzene or toluene or an aliphatic hydrocarbon such as n hexane or n pentane may also be used. b It is sometimes advantageous to use as the chiral metal hydrogen complex a chiral modified lithium aluminum hydride reducing agent formed by the reaction of one equivalent ratio of an optically active alcohol, 2 equivalent ratio of a N substituted aniline represented by the general formula III ,EMI8.1 wherein R2 is a lower alkyl group or a phenyl group, and one equivalent ratio of lithium aluminum hydridetliterature Tetrahedron Letters, Vol. 21, 2753 1980 . The optically active alcohol used as asymmetric source in this invention is exemplified by either of the optically active forms of an optically active amino alcohol such as, for example, or N methylephedrine or or 2 N,N dimethylamino 1 phenylethanol.As to the N substituted aniline, a desirable result is obtained by use of a lower alkylsubstituted aniline such as N methylaniline or N ethylaniline, or diphenylamine. The preparation of such a chiral modified lithium aluminum hydride reducing agent can be achieved by suspending one equivalent ratio of lithium aluminum hydride LiAlH4 in a suitable solvent and admixing with one equivalent ratio of an optically active alcohol followed by 2 equivalent ratio of a N substituted aniline. The solvent described above in a can be used likewise. EMI9.1 I Racemate IV Diastereomeric mixtureEMI9.2 Triazolyl alcohol ester Triazolyl alcohol compound Triazolyl alcohol ester Triazolyl alcohol compound In the above formulas, X and the asterisk are as defined above. As examples of the optically active carboxylic acids for use in the esterific at ion of racemate of a triazolyl alcohol I , there are menthoxyacetic acid, or N trifluoroacetylproline, camphoric acid, or mandelic acid, or 2 phenylproplonic acid, or 2 isopropyl 4 chlorophenylacetic acid, or a methoxy tr fluoromethylphenylacetic acid, or cis chrysanthemic acid, and or transchrysanthemic acid.The reactive derivatives cf these optically active carboxylic acids include acid halides and acid anhydrides. Generally, the optically active carboxylic acid is converted into an acid halide in a customary manner and allowed to react with the racemate of a triazolyl The asymmetric reduction is conducted by adding a ketone compound II dissolved in a suitable solvent to the chiral modified lithium aluminum hydride prepared as in a or b described above. The solvent is the same as described in a . The reaction temperature is preferably OOC or below, though a temperature between 800C and the boiling point of the solvent can be used.After completion of the reaction, the complex compound is decomposed by the addition of a dilute aqueous acidic solution and the reaction mixture is purified by extraction, silica gel column chromatography or recrystallization to obtain the intended product. 2 Preparation by resolution of diastereomers. A method for resolving optical isomers by use of diastereomer esters formed from a racemic alcohol compound and an optically active reactive compound has been known literature Org. Reaction, Vol. 2, 380 . A diastereomeric ester mixture IV is obtained by allowing a racemate of triazolyl alcohol compound I to react with a reactive derivative of optically active carboxylic acid in the presence of a base. A or triazolyl alcohol derivative I is obtained by resolving sal diastereoerl ester mixture by chromatography or fractional crystalliza tion into triazolyl alcohol ester and triazolyl alcohol ester, and decomposing said esters. alcohol I to effect esterification. The reaction is conducted in a common inert solvent e.g., acetone, acetonitrile, tetrahydrofuran, ethyl acetate, benzene, toluene, dichloromethane, chloroform and carbon tetrachloride and in the presence of a dehydrohalogenation agent e.g., triethylamine, N,N dimethylaniline and pyridine . Generally, 1 to 5 moles of an acyl halide and a dehydrohalogenation agent are used for one mole of the triazolyl alcohol racemate I . Pyridine behaves also as a solvent when used in excess. The reaction temperature is in the range of from room temperature to the boiling point of the solvent. It is of course possible to prepare the diastereomeric ester by using the anhydride of an optically active carboxylic acid. When the diastereomeric mixture of a triazolyl alcohol ester V obtained as described above is crystallizable, it is resolved by repeated fractional crystallization, while if it is in oily form, the resolution is effected by column chromatography or high speed liquid chromatography. The or triazolyl alcohol ester thus formed is decomposed in the presence pf a base such as sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide in a suitable solvent such as water or an aqueous organic solvent ethanol or methanol is generally used to obtain a or triazolyl alcohol derivative I . In the field application of the compounds of this invention obtained as described above, they may be used either alone without the addition of other ingredients or in mixtures with a carrier to make them more convenient for use as a fungicide or a herbicide and a plant growth regulator. Examples of the usual preparation forms include dust, wettable powder, oil spray, emulsion,. tablet, granule, fine granule, aerosol and flowable. These preparations contain generally 0.1 to 95.0 , preferably 0.2 to 90.0 by weight of the active compound including other active ingredients . A suitable application rate is 2 to 500 g 10 ares and a preferable concentration of the active ingredients for field application is 0.001 to 1.0 .However, the concentration may be suitably increased or decreased without sticking to the said range, because the application rate and the concentration depend on the type of preparation, application time of the year, method of application, site of application, plant disease to be controlled and the type of crop to be treated. For the use as fungicide, the triazolyl alcohol derivative I can be mixed with other fungicides such as, for example, N 3,5 dichlorophenyl l,2 dimethyl cyclopropane 1,2 dicarboximide, S n butyl S p tert butylbenzyldithiocarbonimidate, O,O dimethyl O 2,6 dichloro4 methylphenyl phosphorothioate, methyl l butylcarbamoyllH benzimidazol 2 yl carbamate, N trichloromethylthio 4 cyclohexene 1,2 dicarboximide, cis N 1,1,2,2 tetrachloro ethylthio cyclohexene l,2 dicarboximide, Polyoxin,Streptomycin, zinc ethylenebisdithiocarbamate, zinc dimethylthiocarbamate, manganese ethylenebisdithiocarbamate, bis N,N dimethylthiocarbamoyl disulfide, tetrachloroiso phthalonitrile, 8 hydroxyquinoline, dodecylguanidine acetate, 5,6 dihydro 2 methyl 1,4 oxathiine 3 carboxanilide,N dichlorofluoromethylthio N,N dimethyl N phenylsulfamide, 1 4 chloropyhenoxy 3,3 dimethyl 1 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 2butanone, 1,2 bis 3 methoxyearbonyl 2 thioureido benzene, methyl N 2,6 dimethylphenyl N methoxyacetyl 2 methylglycinate, and aluminum ethylphosphite. Further, the triazolyl alcohol derivative i can be used in combination with other herbicidal and plant growth regulatory agents. Such a mixture does not reduce the control effect of each active component and even a synergetic effect is expectable from the joint use. Exam ples of such agents include phenoxy type herbicides such as 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, 2 methyl 4 chlorophenoxybutyric acid, 2 methyl 4 chlorophenoxyacetic acid, esters and salts thereof diphenyl ether type herbicides such as 2,4 dichlorophenyl 4 nitrophenyl ether, 2,4,6 trichlorcphenyl 4 nitrophenyl ether, 2 chloro 4 trifuoromethylpher 3 ethoxy 4 nitrophenyl ether, 2,4 dichlorophenyl 4 nitrc 3 methoxyphenyl ether, and 2,4 dichlorophenyl 3 methoxy carbonyl 4 1 nitrophenyl ether triazine type herbicides such as 2 chloro 4,6 bisethylamino l,3,5 triazine, 2 chloro 4 ethylamino 6 isopropylamino l,3,5 triazine, 2 methy h o 4,6 bisethylamino 1,3,5 triazine, and 2 methylthio 4,6 bisisopropylamino 1,3,5 triazine, urea type herbicides such as 3 3,4 dichlorophenyl 1,1, dimethylurea, 3 3,4 dichlorophenyl l methoxy l methylurea, l a, dimethylbenzyl 3 p tolylurea and 1 2 benzothiazolyl 1,3 dimethylurea carbamate type herbicides such as isopropyl N 3 chlorophenyl carbamate and methyl N 3,4 dichlorophenyl carbamate thiol carbamate type herbicides such asS 4 chlorobenzyl N,N diethylthiolcarbamate and S ethylN,N hexamethylenethiolcarbamate acid anilide type herbidides such as 3,4 dichloropropionanilide, 2 chloro N methoxymethyl 2 ,6 diethylacetanilide, 2 chloro 2 ,6 diethyl N butoxymethyl acetanilide, 2 chloro 2 ,6 diethyl N n propoxyethyl acetanilide, and N chloroacetylN 2,6 diethylphenyl glycine ethyl ester uracil type herbicides such as 5 bromo 3 sec butyl 6 methyluracil, and 3 cyclohexyl 5,6 trlmethyleneuracil pyridinium salt type herbicides such as l,l dimethyl 4,4 bipyridinium chloride phosphorus type herbicides such as N phosphonomethyl glycine, N,N bis phosphonomethyl glycine, methyl 0 2nitro 5 methylphenyl N sec butyl phosphoroamidothioate, S 2 methyl l piperidylcarbonylmethyl O,O di n propyldithiophosphate, and S 2 methyl l piperidylcarbonylmethyl O,O diphenyldithiophosphate toluidine type herbicides such as a,a,a trifluoro 2,6 dinitro N,N dipropyl p toluidine 5 tert butyl 3 2,4 dichloro 5 isopropoxyphenyl l,3,4 oxadiazolin 2 one, 3 isopropyl lH 2,1,3 benzothiazin 3H one 2,2 dioxide, a B naphthoxy propionanilide, 4 2,4 dichlorobenzoyl l,3 dimethylpyrazol 5 yl p toluenesulfonate 3 methoxyearbonylamino phenyl 3 methylphenylcarbamate, and 4 amino 3 methyl 6 phenyl 1,2,4 triazine. For the use as fungicide, the present compounds can be mixed with insecticides, herbicides and plant growth regulators. Such a mixture does nat decrease the control effect of each active component and even a synergetic effect is expectable from the joint use. Examples of such active components include organophosphorus insecticides such as O,O dimethyl 0 3 methyl 4 nitrophenyl phosphoro thioate, O 4 cyanophenyl O,O dimethylphosphorothloate, O 4 cyanophenyl O ethylphenylphosphonothioate, 0,0dimethyl S N methylcarbamoylmethyl phosphorodithioate, 2 methoxy 4H l,3,2 benzodioxaphosphorine 2 sulfide, andO,O dimethyl S l ethoxycarbonyl l phenylmethyl phosphorodithioate pyrethroid insecticides such as a cyano 3phenoxybenzyl 2 4 chlorophenyl isovalerate, 3 phenoxybenzy 2,2 dimethyl 3 2,2 dichlorovinyl cyclopropanecarboxylate, and a cyano 3 phenoxybenzyl 2,2 dimethyl 3 2,2 dibromo vinyl cyclopropanecarboxylate phenoxy type herbicides such as 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, 2 methyl 4 chlorophenoxybutyric acid, 2 methyl 4 chlorophenoxyacetic acid, esters and salts thereof diphenyl ether type herbicides such as 2,4 dichlorophenyl 4 nitrophenyl ether, 2,4,6 trichicrc phenyl 4 nitrophenyl ether, 2 chloro 4 trifluorometyl phenyl 3 ethoxy 4 nitrophenyl ether, 2,4 dichlorophenyl 4 nitro 3 methoxyphenyl ether, and 2,4 dichlorophenyl 3 methoxycarbonyl 4 nitrophenyl ether triazine type herbicides such as 2 chloro 4,6 bisethylamino 1,3,5 tri2z ne, 2 chloro 4 ethylamino 6 isopropylamino 1,3,5 triazine, 2 methylthio 4,6 bisethylamino 1,3,5 triazine, and 2 methylthio 4,6 bisisopropylamino 1,3,5 triazine urea type herbicides such as 3 3,4 dichlorophenyl 1,1 dimethylurea, 3 3,4 dichlorophenyl l methoxy l methylurea, l a,a dimethylbenzyl 3 p tolylurea, and l 2 benzothiazolyl l,3 dimethylurea carbamate type herbicides such as isopropyl N 3 chlorophenyl carbamate and methyl N 3,4dichlorophenyl carbamate thiolcarbamate type herbicides such as S 4 chlorobenzyl N,N diethylthiolcarbamate andS ethyl N,N hexamethylenethiolcarbamate acid anilide type herbicides such as 3,4 dichloropropionanilide, 2 chloro Nmethoxymethyl 2 ,6 diethylacetanilide, 2 chloro 2 ,6 diethyl N butoxymethyl acetanilide, 2 chloro 2 ,6 diethyl N n propoxyethyl acetanilide, and N chloroacetyl N 2,6diethylphenyl glycine ethyl ester uracil type herbicides such as 5 bromo 3 sec butyl 6 methyluracil and 3 cyclohexyl 5,6 trimethylneuracil pyridinium salt type herbicides such as l,l dimethyl 4,4 bipyridinum chloride phosphorustype herbicides such as N phosphonomethyl glycine, N,Nbis phosphonomethyl glycine, O ethyl O 2 nitro 5 methylphenyl N sec butylphosphoroamidothioate, S 2 methyl lpiperidylcarbonylmethyl O,O di n propyldithiophosphate, and S 2 methyl l piperidylcarbonylmethyl O,O aiphenyl dithiophosphate toluidine type herbicides such as a,a,a trifluoro 2 ,6 dinitro N,N dipropyl p toluidine 5 tert butyl 3 2,4 dlchloro 5 isopropoxyphenyl 1,3,4 oxadiazolin 2 one, 3 isopropyl lH 2,l,3 benzothiadiazin 3H one 2,2 dioxide, a B naphthoxy propionanilide, 4 2,4 dichloro benzoyl l,3 dimethylpyrazol 5 yl p toluenesulfonate, 3 methoxycarbonylamino phenyl 3 methylphenylcarbamate, and 4 amino 3 methyl 6 phenyl 1,2,4 triazine. For the uses as herbicide and plant growth regulator, the present compounds can be mixed with other fungicides and insecticides, and even a synergetic effect is expectable from such a mixture. Examples of fungicides include N 3,5 dichlorophenyl 1,2 dimethylcyclopropane 1,2 dicarboximide, S n butyl S p tert butylbenzyldithiocarbonimidate, O,O dimethyl O 2,6 dichloro 4 methylphenyl phosphorothioate, methyl l butylcarbamoyl lH benzimtdazol 2 yl carbamate, N trichloromethylthio 4 cyclohexene l, 2 dicarboximide, cis N 1,1,2,2 tetrachloroethylthio 4 cyclc hexene 1,2 dicarboximide, Polyoxin, streptomycin, zinc ethylenebisdithiocarbamate, zinc dimethylthiocarbamate, manganese ethylenebisdithiocarbamate, bis N,N dimethylthiocarbamoyl disulfide, tetrachloroisophthalonitrile, 8hydroxyquinoline, dodecylguanidine acetate, 5,6 dihydro 2 methyl l,4 oxathiin 3 carboxanilide, N dichlorofluoro methylthio N,N dimethyl N phenylsulfamide, l 4 chloro phenoxy 3,3 dimethyl 1 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 2 butanone, 1,2 bis 3 methoxyearbonyl 2 thioureid benzene, methyl N 2,6 dimethylphenyl N methoxyacetyl 2 methylglycinave, .d aluminum ethylphosphite.Examples of the insecticides include organophosphorus insecticides such as O,O d rnethy O 4 nitro 3 methylphenyl phosphorothioate, O 4 cyancphenyl O,O dimethylphosphorothioate, O 4 cyanophenyl O ethylphenylphosphonothioate, O,O dimethyl S l ethcxycarbamoylmethyl phosphorodithioate, 2 methoxy 4H 1,3,2 benzodioxaphosphorin 2 sulfide, O,O dimethyl S l ethoxycarbonyl l phenylmethyl phosphorodithioate, and pyrethroid insecticides such as a cyano 3 phenoxybenzyl 2 4 chlorophenyl isovalerate, 3 phenoxybenzyl 2,2 dimethyl 3 2,2dichlorovinyl cyclopropanecarboxylate, and a cyano 3phenoxybenzyl 2 ,2 dimethyl 3 2,2 dibromovinyl cyclo propanecarboxylate. The invention is further illustrated below in detail with reference to Examples, Reference Examples,Test Examples and Formulation Examples.Example 1 Synthesis of and E l 4 chlorophenyl 2 l,2,4 triazol l yl 4,4 dimethyl l penten 3 ol by resolution of diastereomeric ester A mixture of 4.3 g of E l 4 chlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl 1 penten 3 ol and 8 g of menthoxyacetyl chloride was stirred in 50 cc of pyridine at 700C for 7 hours. The reaction mixture was poured into 200 cc of ice water and extracted with 400 cc of ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed successively with 0.5N hydrochloric acid, 200 cc of a saturated aqueous sodium hydrogencarbonate solution and 200 cc of ice cooled water, then dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, and concentrated in vacuo.The resulting oily crude substance was purified by silica gel column chromatography 150 g of silica gel developing solvent n hexane acetone 30 1 to obtain 7.4 g of E 1 4 chlorphenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol l yl 4, 4 dimethyl l penten 3 yl menthoxy acetate.Upon repetition of chromatography on another silica gel column 250 g of silica gel developing solvent n hexane benzene acetone 20 20 1 , there were obtained 2.6 g of E 1 4 chlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl 1 penten 3 yl menthoxyacetate 25 1 .52 5 n as first eluate, 3 g of the diastereomeric ester mixture as second eluate, and 1.2 g of E 1 4 chlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl 1 penten 3 yl menthoxyacetate n25 1.5281 as final eluate. D A mixture of 2.6 g of E l 4 chlorophenyrn 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl 1 penten 3 yl menthoxyacetate and 40 cc of a 95 aqueous ethanol solution containing 0.4 g of potassium hydroxide was stirred at 3000 for one hour. The reaction mixture was poured into 200 cc of ice water and extracted with 300 cc of ethyl acetate. The organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting crude crystals were recrystallized from a carbon tetrachloride n hexane mixture to obtain 1.2 g of E 1 4 chlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol l yl 4,4 dimethyl 1 penten 3 ol alpha D24 16.0 e 1, CHCl3 m.p. 170 171 C. The NMR spectrum was the same as that of the racemate described in ReferenceExample 1. Similarly, 1.2 g of E 1 4 chlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl 1 penten 3 yl menthoxyacetate was treated with 20 cc of 2 95 aqueous ethanol solution containing 0.2 g of potassium hydroxide and the resulting crude crystals were recrystallized from a carbon tetrachloride n hexane mixture to obtain 0.5 g of E 1 4 chlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl l penten 3 ol 24 14.0 c 1.0, CHC13 m.p. 169 1700C.Example 2 Synthesis of and E 1 2,4 dichloro phenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl 1 penten 3 ol by resolution of diastereomeric ester A mixture of 4 g of E 1 2,4 dicholoro phenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl 1 penten 3 ol and 8 g of menthoxyacetyl chloride was stirred in 50 cc of pyridine at 700C for 7 hours. The reaction mixture was treated in the same manner as in Example 1. The crude oily substance was purified by silica gel chromatography 150 g of silica gel developing solvent n hexane acetone 30 1 to obtain 5 g of t E 1 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl 1 penten 3 yl menthoxy acetate.Upon repetition of chromatography on another silica gel column 250 g of silica gel developing solvent n hexane benzene acetone 20 20 1 , the diastereomeric ester mixture gave 1.6 g of E 1 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl 1penten 3 yl menthoxyacetate nD28 1.5172 as first eluate, 2 g of the diastereomeric ester mixture as second eluate, and 0.7 g of E 1 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl 1 penten 3 yl menthoxyacetate nD28 1.5102 as final eluate. A mixture of 1.6 g of E 1 2,4 dichlor phenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl 1 penten 3 yl menthoxyacetate and 30 cc of a 95 aqueous ethanol solution containing 0.2 g of potassium hydroxide was stirred at 250C for one hour. The reaction mixture was poured into 200 cc of, ice water and extracted with 300 cc of ethyl acetate. The organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting crude crystals were recrystallized from a carbon tetrachloride n hexane mixture to obtain 0.8 g of E 1 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl1 penten 3 ol alpha D24 31.7 c 1, CHCl3 , melting point 160 161 C. The NMR spectrum was the same as that of the racemate described in Reference Example 2. Similarly, 0.7 g of E l 2,4 dichloro phenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl 1 penten 3 ylu menthoxyacetate was treated with 20 cc of a 90 aqueous ethanol solution containing 0.1 g of potassium hydroxide and the resulting crude crystals were recrystallized from a carbon tetrachloride n hexane mixture to obtain 0.3 g of E 1 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 ylss dimethyl l penten 3 ol D24 26.0 c 1.0, CHCi3 melting point 160 1610C.Example 3 Asymmetric reduction by use of menthol. To a mixture of 0.4 g 0.01 mole of LiAlH4 and 30 cc of THF, was added at 100C 30 cc of a THF solution containing 4.4 g 0.028 mole of menthol. To the mixture which has been stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes, was added at 30 C 50 cc of a THF solution containing 2.0 g 0.007 mole of l 4 chlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl 1 penten 3 one. The resulting mixture was stirred for 2 hours while keeping the temperature at 50C. After addition of 5 cc of 1N hydrochloric acid, the insolubles were removed by filtration and the filtrate was poured into 300 cc of ice water and extracted with 500 cc of ethyl ether.The organic layer was washed successively with 200 cc of a saturated aqueous sodium hydrogencarbonate solution and 200 cc of ice cooled water. The washed organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to obtain a crude product in oily form. The crude product was purified by silica gel chromatography 100 g of silica gel developing solvent n hexane acetone 30 1 , whereby 0.5 g of unreacted ketone raw material was recovered and 1.0 g of crystals after crystallizing from a carbon tetrachloride n hexane mixture of E 1 4 chloro phenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl 1 penten 3 ol were obtained. t6 6.0 c 1, CHC13 Example 4 Asymmetric reduction by use of 2 N,N dimethyl amino 1 phenylethanol. To a mixture of 0.4 g of LiAlH4 and 20 cc of ethyl ether, while being cooled in ice, was added dropwise 50 cc of an ethyl ether solution containing 1.75 g of S 2 dimethylamino l phenylethanol. After completion of the addition, the mixture was stirred for 15 minutes, while being kept from cooling. To the mixture was added dropwise 20 cc of an ethyl ether solution containing 2.54 g ofN ethylaniline. After the addition, the mixture was stirred for 3 hours at room temperature. To the mixture was added dropwise at 700C 50 cc of an ethyl ether solution containing 1.13 g of E l 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl 1 penten 3 one. The mixture was stirred for 3 hours at 730C and then left standing overnight at room temperature. To the mixture was added 110 cc of 2N hydrochloric acid to effect decomposition.The organic layer was separated, washed successively with 100 cc of a saturated aqueous sodium hydrogencarbonate solution and 100 cc of iced water, then dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, and concentrated in vacuo to obtain 1.26 g of a crystalline triazolyl alcohol compound alpha D24 16.6 c 1.0, CHCl3 . The crystalline compound was recrystallized from a cryclohexane methanol mixture to obtain 0.4 g of E 1 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl 1 penten 3 01 alpha D24 28.8 c 1.0, CHCl3 , melting point 160 1610C. Example 5 Asymmetric reduction by use of 2 N benzylN methylamino l phenylethanol To a solution of 1.08 g 0.0284 mole of LiA1H4 in 85 cc of ethyl ether, while being cooled in ice, was added dropwise 22 cc of an ether solution containing 6.86 g 0.0284 mole of 2 N benzyl N methylamino l phenylethanol followed by 40 cc of an ether solution containing 6.90 g 0.0564 mole of N ethylaniline. After having been stirred at room temperature for 3 hours, the mixture was cooled to 780C. To the mixture was added dropwise 55 cc of an ether solution containing 2.75 g 0.0095 mole of E 1 4 chlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl l penten 3 one. The mixture was stirred at said temperature for 3 hours and left standing overnight at room temperature.To the mixture was then added 105 cc of 2N hydrochloric acid to effect decomposition. The organic layer was separated, washed successively with 100 cc of a saturated aqueous sodium hydrogencarbonate solution and 100 cc of ice cooled water, then dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, and concentrated under reduced pressure to obtain 2.83 g of a crude product alpha D24 6.44 c 1.05, CHCl3 . A 2.8 g portion of the crude product was recrystallized three times from a cyclohexane methanol mixture to obtain 0.82 g of E 1 4 chlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4dimethyl 1 penten 3 ol alpha D24 14.9 c 1.0, CHCl3 .Example 6 Asymmetric reduction by use of N methylephedrine To a solution of 1.25 g 0.033 mole of LiAlH4 in 40 cc of ethyl ether, while being cooled in ice, was added 100 cc of an ethyl ether solution containing 6.1 g 0.034 mole of N methylephedrine dropwise over a period of 30 minutes. After the addition, the mixture was stirred for 15 minutes while keeping the temperature constant. To the mixture was then added dropwise 45 cc of an ethyl ether solution containing 8.24 g o.o68 mole ofN ethylaniline over a period of 30 minutes. After the addition, the mixture was stirred for 2 hours at room temperature for 2 hours. To the mixture was further added 60 cc of an ethyl ether solution containing 2.9 g 0.01 mole of E 1 4 chlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazoly 1 yl LI,4 dimethyl 1 penten 3 one over a period of 15 minutes at 700C to 600C.The mixture was left standing for 4 hours, while keeping the temperature at 730C, and then admixed with 110 cc of 2N hydrochloric acid to effect decomposition.The organic layer was separated, washed successively with 100 cc of a saturated aqueous sodium hydrogencarbonate solution and 100 cc of iced water, then dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, and concentrated under reduced pressure to obtain 2.9 g of crystals of a triazolyl compound alpha D24 10.1 c 1.0, CHCl3 . A 2.5 g portion of the crystals was recrystallized twice from a cyclohexane dioxane mixture to obtain 0.7 g of E 1 4 chlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol l yl 4,4 dimethyl 1 penten 3 ol alpha D24 15.8 c 1.0, CHC13 , melting point 170 1710C.Example 7 Synthesis of E 1 2,4 dichlorphenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl 1 penten 3 ol Preparative method 1 Reaction temperature 150C . Into 10 cc of an ethyl ether solution containing 0.18 g 4.7 mmole of LiAlH4, was added dropwise 10 cc of an ethyl ether solution containing 0.84 g 4.7 mmole of N methyiephedrine over a period of 30 minutes at room temperature, and the mixture was stirred for 20 minutes.To the mixture, while being cooled in ice, was added dropwise 10 cc of an ethyl ether solution containing 1 g 9.4 mmole of N methylaniline cver a period of 30 minutes, and the mixture was stored for one hour at room temperature.To the raction mixture cooled at 150C, was added over a period of 10 minutes 10 cc of an ether solution containing 1 g 3.1 mmole of E l 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol l yl 4,4 dimethyl 1 penten 3 one, and the mixture was stirred for 2 hours at 150C. The mixture was then poured into 100 cc of 1N hydrochloric acid, extracted with 100 cc of ether, washed successively with an aqueous sodium hydrogencarbonate solution and ice water, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, and stripped of the solvent under reduced pressure. The crystalline residue was collected by filtration using 10 cc of n hexane and washed to obtain 0.98 g 98 yield of the captioned compound a 25 28.0 c 1, chloroform . Preparative method 2 Reaction temperature 250C . Into 10 cc of an ethyl ether solution containing 0.18 g 4.7 mmole of LiAlH4, was added dropwise 10 cc of an ethyl ether solution containing 0.84 g 4.7 mmole of N methylephedrine over a period of 30 minutes at room temperature, and the mixture was stirred for additional 20 minutes. To the mixture, was added dropwise 10 cc of an ethyl ether solution containing 1 g 9.4 mmole ofN methylaniline over a period of 20 minutes, and the mixture was stirred for additional 20 minutes. To the mixture was added dropwise 10 cc of an ethyl ether solution containing 1 g of E l 2,4 dichlorophenyl 4,4 dimethyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 1 penten 3 one over a period of 5 minutes at room temperature 250C , and the mixture was stirred for one hour.The reaction solution was poured into 100 cc of 1N hydrochloric acid and treated in the same manner as described above in preparative method 1 to obtain 0.98 g 98 yield of the captioned compound alpha D25 27.0 c 1, chloroform .Reference Example 1 Synthesis of racemate of E l 4 chlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl 1 penten 3 ol In 50 ml of methanol, was dissolved 2.9 g .01 mole of E 1 4 chlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 tri2zol l yl 4,4 dimethyl 1 penten 3 ol melting point 108 109 C characterized by the NMR spectrum given below. To the solution was added 0.38 g 0.01 mole of sodium borohydrise, while keeping the temperature of the reaction system at 200C or below by cooling in ice. To the solution, after having been kept at 200C for 3 hours, was added 1 ml of acetic acid to effect decomposition.The organic layer was extracted with 100 ml of ethyl acetate and the extract was washed with 50 ml of a 5 aqueous hydrogencarbonate solution, and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. After the removal of the solvent by distillation under reduced pressure, the residue was recrystallized from n hexane to obtain 2.0 g 69 yield of the captioned compound having a melting point of 153 l550C. The elementary analysis and NMR spectrum determined on a solution in deuterochloroform and expressed in terms of 6 value of each compound were as shown below E 1 4 chlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl l penten 3 one Elementary analysis C H Ng C1 calculated for C15Hl6N3OCl 62.17 5.58 14.50 12.23 Found 62.32 5.60 14.41 12.20 NE.R spectrum 8.11 1H, singlet, triazole proteon , 7.90 1H, singlet, triazol proton , 7.15 4H, singlet, phenyl proton , 6.99 1H, singlet, olefin proton , 0.99 9H, singlet, butyl proton . E 1 4 chlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl l penten 3 ol Elementary analysis Cl Calculated for C15H18N3OCl 62.17 5.58 14.50 12.23 Found 62.32 5.60 14.41 12.20 NMR spectrum 8.11 1H, singlet, triazole proton , 7.90 1H, singlet, triazol proton , 7.15 4H, singlet, phenyl proton , 6.99 1H, singlet, olefin proton , 0.99 9H, singlet, butyl proton . E 1 4 chlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl l penten 3 ol Elementary analysis Cl Calculated for C15H18N3OCl 61.74 6.23 14.4C 12.1, Found 61.82 6.38 14.38 12.15 NMR specturm 8.52 1H, singlet, triazole proton , 7.98 1H, singlet, triazole proton , 7.30 4E, singlet, phenyl proton , 6.91 1H, singlet, olefin proton , 4.56 2H, broad singlet, hydroxyl proton and proton of methyne group bearing hydroxyl group , 0.66 9H, singlet, butyl proton Reference Example 2 Synthesis of E 1 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol l yl 4,4 dimethyl l penten 3 ol racemate To 50 cc of a methanol solution containing 3.2 g of E 1 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl l penten 3 one melting point 92 93 C characterized by the NMR spectrum shown below, was added 0.5 g of sodium borohydride, while cooling in ice. The mixture was then stirred at room temperature for 3 hours and treated as in Reference Example 3 to obtain 2.6 g of the captioned compound melting at 148 1490C. The NMR spectra were shown below in terms of 6 value measured on a deutero chloroform solution. E 1 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl 1 penten 3 one 8.30 1H, singlet, triazole proton , 8.04 1H, singlet, triazole proton , 7.45 1H, multiplet, phenyl proton , 7.26 2H, multiplet, phenyl proton , 7.22 1H, singlet, olefin proton , 0.97 9H, singlet, butyl proton . E 1 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4 , 4 dimethyl 1 penten 3 ol 8.45 1H, singlet, triazole proton , 7.97 1H, singlet, triazole proton , 7.80 3H, multiple, phenyl proton , 6.80 1H, singlet, olefin proton , 4.35 2H, broad singlet, hydroxyl proton and hydroxyl group bearing methyne proton , 0.63 9H, singlet, tert butyl proton . Example 8 ,Synthesis of E l 4 cloophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl 1 penten 3 ol by asymmetric reduction Into 40 cc of an ethyl ether solution containing 1.25 g 0.033 mole of LiAlH4, while being cooled in ice, was added dropwise over a period of 30 minutes 100 cc of an ethyl ether solution containing 6.1 g 0.034 mole of N methylephedrine, and the mixture was then stirred at room temperature for 15 minutes. To the mixture was added dropwise over a period of 30 minutes 45 cc of an ethyl ether solution containing 8.24 g 0.068 mole of Nethylaniline, and the resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours.To the mixture was further added 60 cc of an ethyl ether solution containing 2.9 g 0.01 mole of E 1 4 chlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl l penten 3 one over a period of 12 minutes at 700 to 670C, and the mixture was stirred at 730C for 3 hours under adiabatic conditions. The mixture was left standing overnight at room temperature, and to the mixture was added 110 cc of 2N hydrochloric acid to effect decomposition.The separated organic layer was washed with 100 cc of a saturated aqueous sodium hydrogencarbonate solution, then with 100 cc of ice water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrate under reduced pressure to obtain 3.0 g of crystals of a triazolyl alcohol compound a24 9.0 Cc 1.0, CHCl3 . A 2.5 g portion of the obtained crystals was recrystallized twice from a cyclohexane dioxane mixture to obtain 0.81 g of E 1 4 chlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl l penten 3 ol a D 15.7 Cc 1.0, CHCl3 melting point 169 1700 C. The NMR spectrum was identical with that of the racemate shown in Reference Example 1.Example 9 Synthesis of E l 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 l,2,4 triazol l yl 4,4 dimethyl l penten 3 ol by asymmetric reduction A chiral metal hydrogen complex was formed in a manner similar to that in Example 1 by adding to 20 cc of an ethyl ether solution containing 0.63 g of LiAlH4 50 cc of an ethyl ether solution containing 3.05 g of N methylephedrine followed by 20 cc of an ethyl ether solution containing 4.12 g of N ethylaniline. To the resulting solution, was added at 700C 30 cc of an ethyl ether solution containing 1.62 g of E l 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl 1 penten 3 one. The resulting mixture was stirred at 730C for 5 hours under adiabatic conditions and left standing overnight at room temperature.To the mixture was added 60 cc of 2N hydrochloric acid to effect decomposition. The organic layer was washed successively with 100 cc of a saturated sodium hydrogencarbonate solution and 100 cc of ice cooled water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, and concentrated under reduced pressure to obtain 1.82 g of crude crystals. The crude crystals were recrystallized three times from a cyclohexane methanol mixture to obtain 0.41 g of E 1 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1y 4,4 dimethyl l penten 3 ol a 24 29.2 c 1.0, CHCl3 melting point 160 l6l0C. The NMR spectrum was identical with that of the racemate described in Reference Example 2.Example 10 Asymmetric reduction by use of menthol To 0.4 g 0.01 mole of LiAlH4 dissolved in 30 cc of THF, was added at 100C 30cc of a THF solution containing 4.4 g 0.028 mole of menthol. The mixture was then stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes. To the mixture was added at 30 C 50 cc of a THF solution containing 2.G g 0.007 mole of l 4 chlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol l yl 4,4 dimethyl 1 penten 3 one. The mixture was then stirred for 2 hours while keeping the temperature at 50C. After adding to the mixture 5 cc of 1N hydrochloric acid and removing the insolubles by filtration, the filtrate was poured into 300 cc of ice water and extracted with 500 cc of ethyl ether. The organic layer was washed with 200 cc of a saturated sodium hydrogencarbonate solution, then with 20C cc of ice cooled water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, and concentrated under reduced pressure to obtain a crude oily product. The crude product was fractionally purified by silica gel column chromatography 100 g silica gel developing solvent n hexane acetone 30y1 . There was obtained 0.5 g of unreacted ketone compound which was recovered and 1.3 g of crystals of E l 4 chlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl 1 penten 3 ol by crystallization from a carbon tetrachloride n hexane mixture a D6 5.0 c 1, CHCl3 . Example 11 Asymmetric reduction by use of borneol. To 0.2 g 0.0053 mole of LiAlH4 dissolved in 30 cc of THF, was added at OOC 30 cc of a THF solution containing 2.4 g 0.0155 mole of borneol. The mixture was then stirred at room temperature for 50 minutes. To the mixture was added at 0 C 30 cc of a THF solution containing 1.0 g 0.0034 mole of E l 4 chlorophenyl 2 l,2,4 triazol l yl 4,4 dimethyl l penten 3 one. The mixture was then stirred at room temperature for 3 hours. After adding 0.5 cc of 1N hydrochloric acid to the mixture and removing the insolubles by filtration, the filtrate was poured into 300 cc of ice cooled water, and extracted with 500 cc of ethyl ether.The organic layer was washed with 200 cc of a saturated aqueous sodium hydrogencarbonate solution, then with 200 cc of ice cooled water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, and concentrated under reduced pressure to obtain a crude oily substance. The crude substance was fractionally purified by silica gel column chromatography 100 g silica gel developing solvent n hexane acetone 30 1 .There were obtained 0.4 g of the unreacted ketone which was recovered and 0.45 g of crystals of E l 4 chloro phenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl 1 penten 3 ol by crystallization from a carbon tetrachloride n hexane mixture Ca 724 3.2 c 1, CHCl3 . The useful properties of the triazolyl alcohol derivatives of this invention are illustrated below in detail with reference to some examples of tests performed on E 4 chlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol1 yl 4,4 dimethyl 1 penten 3 ol compound No. 1 obtained in Example 1 and E 1 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol l yl 4,4 dimethyl l penten 3 ol compound No. 2 obtained in Example 2, using as reference samples corresponding triazolyl alcohol derivatives obtained inExamples 1 and 2 compounds No. 3 and No. 4, respectively and the racemates obtained in Reference Examples 1 and 2 compounds No. 5 and No. 6, respectively .Test Example 1 Inhibition of fungus growth A medium containing 5 g of polypeptone, 20 g of malt extract, 20 g of sucrose and 20 g of agar per liter of water heated to form a liquid. To the liquefied medium, was added a predetermined quantity of 2 diluted sample of the test compound in the form of emulsfiabe concentrate so as to keep the concentration of each sample in the medium at a predeWermined level. After thorough stirring, the medium was poured into a Petrl dish to form an agar plate. After the agar had set, it was inoculated with a colony or a conidium suspension of the test fungus.The fungus species and the incubation period the period of time from inoculation to observed tion were as shown below. The incubation temperature was 200C for Venturia inaequalis and 280C for other fungi. Abbrevia Incubation Fungus species tion period day Helminthosporium gramineum Hg 6Penicillium italicum Pi 6Venturia inaequalis Vi 7Valsa mali Vm Mycosphaerella melonis MmDiaporthe citri Dc 6Ustilago nuda Un 6Verticillium albo atrum Va 7 Septoria tritici St 7Cercospora beticola Cb 7 The fungus growth inhibitory activity of the test compound was evaluated by the concentration which inhibits 90 of the mycelium growth EDgo . As is seen from the results shown in Table 1, it was found that triazolyl alcohol derivatives of this invention compoundsNo. 1 and No. 2 show markedly superior antifungal spectra compared with triazolyl alcohol derivatives compounds No. 3 and No. 4 and recemates compoundsNo. 5 and No. 6 . Table 1. Concentration, in ppm, which inhibits 90 colony growth ED90 . EMI37.1 SEP Compound SEP of SEP this tb Fungus SEP invention SEP Reference SEP compound tb species tb SEP No. SEP 1 SEP No.2 SEP No. SEP 3 SEP No. SEP 4 SEP No.5 SEP No. SEP 6 tb SEP Hg SEP 1.5 SEP 1.5 SEP 25.0 SEP 25.0 SEP 6.0 SEP 6.0 tb SEP Pi SEP 0.1 SEP 0.2 SEP 25.0 SEP 25.0 SEP 0.4 SEP 1.0 tb SEP Vi SEP 0.1 SEP 0.1 SEP 25.0 SEP 25.0 SEP 0.1 SEP 0.1 tb SEP Vm SEP 0.1 SEP 0.1 SEP 25.0 SEP 25.0 SEP 0.4 SEP 0.1 tb SEP Mn SEP 0.3 SEP 0.2 SEP 25.0 SEP 25.0 SEP 1.3 SEP 1.0 tb SEP Dc SEP 0.4 SEP 1.0 SEP 25.0 SEP 25.0 SEP 5.0 SEP 5.0 tb SEP Un SEP 5.0 SEP 5.0 SEP 25.0 SEP 25.0 SEP 5.0 SEP 5.0 tb SEP Va SEP 0.4 SEP 0.4 SEP 25.0 SEP 25.0 SEP 1.3 SEP 1.3 tb SEP St SEP 0.4 SEP 0.1 SEP 25.0 SEP 25.0 SEP 1.0 SEP 0.4 tb SEP Cb SEP 0.4 SEP 0.4 SEP 25.0 SEP 25.0 SEP 1.5 SEP 1.5 tb Test Example 2 Control effect on leaf spot of peanut A 85 ml plastic pot filled with sandy loam was seeded with peanut var. Semi upright at a rate of 1 seed pot and the seed was cultivated in an air conditioned greenhouse at 250 to 300C for 12 days to obtain the young peanut seedling grown to the stage of the third foliage leaf. At this stage a diluted liquor of an emulsifiable concentrate of each test compound was sprayed over the foliage at a rate of 10 ml pot. After air drying, the seedling was inoculated with Cercostora personata, then covered with a sheet of polyvinyl chloride film to maintain the humidity, and left standing in an air conditioned greenhouse at 250 to 300C. In order to develop at full severity of the disease, the seedling was further cultivated for 10 days in said greenhouse. The foliage of each seedling was then inspected for the symptoms of disease and the severity was calculated in the following way the appearance of the lesion on the inspected leaf was classifield into 5 indices, that is, 0, 0.5, 1, 2 and 4, and the disease severity was calculated by the equation given below. Lesion index Appearance of lesion Neither colony nor lesion was 0 observed. 0.5 Colony or lesion of less than 5 in area based on total leaf area was observed on the leaf surface. 1 . Colony or lesion of less than 20 in area based on total leaf area was observed on the leaf surface. 2 Colony or lesion of less than 50 in area based on total leaf area was observed on leaf sur face. 4 Colony or lesion of 50 or more in area based on total leaf area was observed on leaf sur face. Severity x100 Then, the control value was obtained by the following equation Control value Z 100 Severity in treated plot x lC0 Severity in control plot As shown in Table 2, the test results revealed that the triazolyl alcohol derivative exhibits 2 far higher control effect as compared with the triazclyl alcohol derivative and the racemate. Table 2EMI40.1 tb SEP Concentration SEP Control tb SEP Compound SEP No. SEP of SEP active SEP value tb SEP ingredient SEP ppm SEP tb The SEP present tb compounds tb SEP 12.5 SEP 100 tb SEP 1 tb SEP 3.1 SEP 100 tb SEP 12.5 SEP 100 tb SEP 2 tb SEP 3.1 SEP 100 tb Reference SEP compounds tb SEP 12.5 SEP 0 tb SEP 3 tb SEP 3.1 SEP 0 tb SEP 12.5 SEP 0 tb SEP 4 tb SEP 3.1 SEP 0 tb SEP 12.5 SEP 91 tb SEP 5 tb SEP 3.1 SEP 40 tb SEP 12.5 SEP 97 tb SEP 6 tb SEP 3.1 SEP 50 tb Test Example 3 Control effect curative effect on brown rust of wheat in the test on young seedling A 85 ml plastic pot filled with sandy loam was seeded with the seed of wheat var.Norin No. 61 at a rate of 10 to 15 seeds per pot and cultivated for 7 days in an air conditioned greenhouse at 180 to 230C te allow the young wheat seedlings to grow to the develop mental stage of first foliage. The seedling at this stage was inoculated with Puccinia recondita and left standing in a humidified chamber at 230C for 16 hours to become infected with the fungus. A diluted emulsion of the test compound was then sprayed at a rate of 10 ml per pot. The pot with seedlings was kept in a constant terera ture chamber at 230C, cultivated for 10 days under radiation from a fluorescent lamp, and the symptoms on the first leaf was observed.The method of examir.ing the symptoms and the method of calculating the control value were the same as in Test Example 2. As shown in Table 3, the test results revealed that a triazolyl alcohol derivative exhibits 2 much higher control effect as compared with not only 2 triazolyl alcohol derivative but also a racemate. Table 3EMI42.1 tb SEP Concentration SEP Control tb SEP of SEP active SEP value tb SEP Compound SEP No. SEP ingredient SEP tb SEP ppm tb The SEP present tb compounds tb SEP 0.8 SEP 100 tb SEP 1 tb SEP 0.2 SEP 100 tb SEP 0.8 SEP 100 tb SEP 2 tb SEP 0.2 SEP 100 tb Reference tb compounds tb SEP 0.8 SEP 0 SEP tb SEP 3 tb SEP 0.2 SEP 0 tb SEP 0.8 SEP 0 tb SEP 4 tb SEP 0.2 SEP 0 tb SEP SEP 0.8 SEP SEP 84 tb SEP 5 tb SEP 0.2 SEP 57 tb SEP 0.8 SEP 90 tb SEP 6 tb SEP 0.2 SEP 70 tb Test Example 4 Control effect curative effect on scab of apple in the test on seedling A 85 ml plastic pot filled with sandy loam was seeded with 2 or 3 apple seeds and cultivated in an airconditioned chamber at 230 to 280C for 30 days to obtain seedlings in the fifth or sixth foliage stage. The seedling at this stage was inoculated with Venturia inaequalis and left standing in a humidified dark chamber 90 or higher relative humidity at 150C to become infect ed with the fungus. Four days after that, an aqueous dilute liquor of the test compound in emulsifiable concentrate form was sprayed over the foliage at a rate of 10 ml per pot. The pot was left standing for 20 to 21 days in a constant temperature chamber at 150C under illum n2 tion and humidfication. The foliage was then inspected for the symtoms of disease.The examination of disease severity and the calculation of control value were performed as in Test Example 2. As shown in Table 4, the test results revealed that the control effect of a triazolyl alcohl derivative was far superior to that of a triazclyl alcohol deirvative and even higher than that of a racemaze. Table 4EMI44.1 tb SEP Concentration SEP Control tb SEP of SEP active SEP value tb SEP Compound SEP No. SEP ingredient SEP S SEP tb SEP ppm tb The SEP present tb compounds tb SEP 3.1 SEP 100 tb SEP 0.8 SEP 50 tb SEP 3.1 SEP 100 tb SEP 2 tb SEP 0.8 SEP 100 tb Reference tb SEP compounds tb SEP 3.1 SEP 0 tb SEP 3 tb SEP 0.8 SEP 0 tb SEP 3.1 SEP 0 tb SEP 4 tb SEP 0.8 SEP 0 tb SEP 3.1 SEP 87 tb SEP 5 tb 0.8 SEP 0 tb SEP 3.1 SEP 95 tb SEP 6 tb SEP 0.8 SEP 20 tb For reference, the results of examination on the plant growth regulatory activity and the herbicidal activity are given below.It was shown that the said activities of triazolyl alcohol derivatives and racemates are far higher than those of triazolyl alcohol derivatives. Test Example 5 Test on wheat for growth retardation A 85 ml plastic pot filled with sandy loam was seeded with 10 to 15 seeds of wheat var. Chikugo No. 2 , which had been soaked in an aqueous diluted liquor of the test compound in emulsifiable concentrate form, and cultivated at a controlled temperature of 180 to 230C for 7 days. The leaf length was then measured and the percentage elongation was obtained by comparison with the leaf length in the control plot. Elongation x 100 Plant length in control plotThe test results were as shown in Table 5. It was found that the plant growth retarding activity of the t.l azolyl alcohol derivative is far lower than that of the triazolyl alcohol derivative or a racemate. Table 5EMI46.1 tb SEP Concentration SEP Plant SEP Elonga tb SEP Compound SEP No. SEP SEP SEP of SEP treating SEP SEP length SEP tion tb SEP liquor SEP ppm SEP mm SEP tb The SEP present tb compounds tb SEP 1 SEP 12.5 SEP 95 SEP 69 tb SEP 3.1 SEP 115 SEP 83 tb SEP 2 SEP 12.5 SEP 133 SEP 96 tb SEP 3.1 SEP 138 SEP 100 tb Reference tb compounds tb SEP 3 SEP 12,5 SEP 45 SEP 33 tb SEP 3.1 SEP 61 tb SEP 4 SEP 12.5 SEP 75 tb SEP 3.1 SEP 95 SEP 69 tb SEP 5 SEP 12.5 SEP 62 tb SEP 3.1 SEP 83 SEP 60 tb SEP 6 SEP 12.5 SEP 90 SEP 65 tb SEP 3.1 SEP 105 SEP 76 tb Control tb untreated SEP SEP SEP 138 SEP 100 SEP tb The useful properties of the triazolyl alcohol derivative are described below in detail with reference to some examples of tests performed on E 1 4 chlorophenyl 2 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl l penten 3 ol compound No. 3 obtained in Example 1 and E 1 2,4 dichlorophenyl 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 4,4 dimethyl l penten 3 ol compound No. 4 obtained inExample 2, using as reference samples corresponding triazolyl alcohol derivatives obtained in Examples 1 and 2 compound No. 1 and No. 2, respectively and the racemates obtained in Reference Examples 1 and 2 compound No. 5 and No. 6, respectively .Test Example 6 Dwarfing test on pot mum Pot mum var. Paragon was cultivated In a 4.8 inch clay pot filled with 500 g of an art ficnal soll composed of sea sand, mountain soil and peat. Two weeks after setting, the plant was pinched so as to undergo the triple stem training. Two weeks after pinching, when sprouting had already begun, the test compound diluted to a predetermined concentration was applied to the plant and the growth retarding effect was inspected 42 days after the treatment. The results were as shown in Table 6.The effect was evaluated In the following way the difference between the plant height at then time of application of the chemical and the plant height on the 42nd day after the application is recorded and expressed as elongation index which is the percentage of said difference based on the similar difference in the untreated plot. The indices shown in Table 6 were mean values of three replications. All of the test compounds showed inhibition of internode elongation and reduction in plant height, but the phytotoxicity such as necrosis or chlorisis was not observed and even the green color of leaves became deeper.The triazolyl alcohol derivatives compound No. 3 andNo. 4 showed a far stronger dwarfing effect compared with the triazolyl alcohol derIvatives compound No. 1 andNo. 2 and a stronger effect compared wlth the racemates compound No. 5 and No. 6 . Table 6. Dwarfing test on pot mum.EMI49.1 tb SEP Concentration SEP Elongation tb SEP Compound SEP No. SEP of SEP treating SEP index tb SEP solution SEP ppm SEP S SEP tb The SEP present SEP Compound tb SEP 200 SEP 15 tb SEP 3 SEP 100 SEP 23 tb SEP 50 SEP 39 tb SEP 200 SEP 48 tb SEP 4 SEP 100 SEP 79 tb SEP 50 SEP 91 tb Reference SEP compounds tb SEP 200 SEP 88 tb SEP 1 SEP 100 SEP 94 tb SEP 50 SEP 103 tb SEP 200 SEP 90 tb SEP 2 SEP 100 SEP 101 tb SEP 50 SEP 103 tb SEP 200 SEP 21 tb SEP 5 SEP 100 SEP 42 tb SEP 50 SEP 78 tb SEP 200 SEP 63 tb SEP 6 SEP 100 SEP 95 tb SEP 50 SEP 101 tb Test Example 7 Test on apple seedling for growth retardation of current shoot An apple seedling var.Golden Delicious planted in a 18 cm clay pot was pruned and cultivated in a greenhouse. Three weeks after the emrgence of current shoots, the above ground part of the plant was entirely treated with a liquid preparation of the test compound in predetermined concentration by means of a hand sprayer.Fourteen days after the treatment, the lengths of current shoots were measured and the amount of elongation was obtained from the difference between said length and the length at the time of chemical treatment. Two pots of the plant were used for each chemical treatment and the growth length determined on 4 to 6 shoots. The results in average value were as shown in Table 7. The triazolyl alcohol derivatives showed a far higher growth inhibitory activity as compared with the triazolyl alcohol derivatives and racemates. Table 7. Test on apple tree for growth retardation of current shoot.EMI51.1 tb SEP Concentration SEP Elongation tb Compound SEP No. SEP of SEP treating tb SEP liquor SEP ppm SEP mm SEP tb The SEP present tb compounds tb SEP 100 SEP 33 SEP 18 tb SEP 3 SEP 50 SEP 64 SEP SEP 36 tb SEP 25 SEP 79 SEP SEP 44 tb SEP 100 SEP 120 SEP 67 tb SEP 4 SEP 50 SEP 147 SEP 82 tb SEP 25 SEP 163 SEP 91 tb Reference tb compounds tb SEP 100 SEP 189 SEP 106 tb SEP 1 SEP 50 SEP 168 SEP tb SEP 25 SEP 185 SEP 103 tb SEP 100 SEP 171 SEP 96 tb SEP 2 SEP 50 SEP 176 SEP 98 SEP tb SEP 25 SEP 180 SEP 101 tb SEP 100 SEP 65 SEP 36 tb SEP 5 SEP 50 SEP 78 tb SEP 25 SEP 93 SEP 52 tb SEP 100 SEP 160 SEP 89 tb SEP 6 SEP 50 SEP 172 SEP 96 tb SEP 25 SEP 172 SEP 96 tb Control tb untreated SEP SEP 179 SEP 100 tb Test Example 8 Test on lawn grass for growth retardation A 1 5,000 are Wagner pot filled with upland soil was seeded with seeds of lawn grass var. Seaside grass . After covering with soil, the seeds were cultivated in a greenhouse. After one month, the grass was cut at a height of 1 cm from the ground level and both foliage and soil were treated with a predetermiend amount of the chemical preparation by using a hand sprayer.Two weeks after the treatment, the elongation of grass was examined, then the grass was cut again and the cultivation was continued for additional 4 weeks. The results of examination performed after two weeks first examination and four weeks second examination from the treatment were as shown in Table 8. As compared with the triazolyl alcohol derivatives and racemates, the triazolyl alcohol derivatives showed a far greater effect. Table 8. Test on lawn grass for growth retardation.EMI53.1 tb SEP Application SEP Growth SEP of SEP lawn SEP grass SEP cm tb Compound SEP No. SEP rate tb SEP g are SEP 1st SEP time SEP 2nd SEP time SEP Total tb The SEP present tb compounds tb SEP 10 SEP 1.0 SEP 0.5 SEP 1.5 tb SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 1.3 SEP 0.5 SEP 1.8 tb SEP 2.5 SEP 1.5 SEP 1.0 SEP 2.5 tb SEP 10 SEP 2.0 SEP 3.0 SEP SEP 5.0 tb SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 3.0 SEP 3.5 SEP SEP 6.5 tb SEP 2.5 SEP 3.8 SEP 4.8 SEP SEP 8.6 tb Reference tb compounds tb SEP 10 SEP 4.3 SEP 8.0 SEP 12.3 tb SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 4.5 SEP 8.5 SEP 13.0 tb SEP 2.5 SEP 5.0 SEP 9.0 SEP 14.0 tb SEP 10 SEP 4.5 SEP 8.5 SEP 13.0 tb SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 4.5 SEP g.o SEP 13.5 tb SEP 2.5 SEP 5.0 SEP 9.0 SEP 14.0 tb SEP 10 SEP 1.5 SEP 1.0 SEP 2.5 tb SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1.8 SEP 2.0 SEP 3.8 tb SEP 2.5 SEP 2.0 SEP 3.0 SEP 5.0 tb SEP 10 SEP 2.5 SEP 3.3 SEP 5.8 tb SEP 6 SEP 5 SEP 3.8 SEP 3.3 SEP 7.1 tb SEP 2.5 SEP 4.0 SEP SEP 6.o SEP lO.O SEP tb Untreated SEP 5.0 SEP 9.0 SEP 14.0 tb Test Example 9 Pot test of naked barley A 1 2,000 are Wagner pot was filled with paddy soil of the plough layer, which passed through a wire screen having a square aperture of 1.5 x 1.5 cm.After applying as basal fertilizer a urea base compound fertilizer at an application rate of N P205 K20 1.3 1.3 1.3 g pot, the pot was seeded with 12 seeds of naked barley via. Hinodeh daka on December 5. The seeds were cultivated in a greenhouse. When the seedling had emerged and grown to a height of several centimeters, the seedlings were thinned to 6 stumps per pot. At the beginning of internode elongation num reb. 15 , a predetermiend amount of the chemical preparation was sprayed over the soil surface and the cultivation was further continued until the harvest time May 21 had reached when the plant height, number of ear, and the weight of husked barley were measured. The results of examination were as shown in Table 9.Although all Or the test compounds showed a dwarfing, tiller promoting, and yield increasing effect, the triazolyl alcohol derivative exhibited much superior effect compared with the triazolyl alcohol derivative and a stronger dwarfing effect compared with the racemate. Table 9. Pot test of naked barley. EMI55.1 SEP Application SEP Numbrr SEP Plant tb Compound SEP No. SEP rate, SEP active SEP of SEP ear SEP height SEP Weight SEP of SEP husked SEP barley tb SEP ingredient tb SEP g are SEP per SEP pot SEP cm SEP g pot SEP tb The SEP present tb compounds tb SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 58.0 SEP 64.7 SEP 71.7 SEP 118 tb SEP 5 SEP 60.0 SEP 5.04 SEP 66.2 SEP 109 tb SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 48.3 SEP 79.7 SEP 64.6 SEP 107 tb SEP 5 SEP 53.3 SEP 72.3 SEP 62.4 SEP 103 tb Reference tb compounds tb SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 46.7 SEP 88.7 SEP 60.0 SEP 99 tb SEP 5 SEP 48.7 SEP 75.3 SEP 61.2 SEP 101 tb SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 45.0 SEP 86.1 SEP 59.6 SEP 98 tb SEP 5 SEP 46.7 SEP 82.4 SEP 59.8 SEP 99 tb SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 57.7 SEP 76.4 SEP 74.3 SEP 123 tb SEP 5 SEP 60.0 SEP 54.3 SEP 67.3 SEP 111 tb SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 47.4 SEP 83.5 SEP 63.1 SEP 104 tb SEP 5 SEP 49.0 SEP 80.1 SEP 62.4 SEP 103 tb SEP Untreated SEP SEP 45.4 SEP 85.9 SEP 60.6 SEP 100 tb Test Example 10 Weed control test in upland soil A 1 1,000 are Wagner pot was filled with a soil mixed with seeds of large crabgrass, green amaranth, and fat hen. A diluted aqueous emulsion containing a prescribed quantity of the test compound was applied by means of a hand sprayer to treat the soil surface.After the treatment, sugar beet seedlings var. Monohill in fifth leaf age bred in a paper pot were transplanted to the Wagner pot and bred in a greenhouse. The weed control activity and phytotoxicity of the test compound were observed on 20th day from the treatment. The results of observation were as shown in Table 10. The evaluation of weed control activity was performed by classifying the observed results into the following 6 grades of from 0 to 5.The phytotoxicity was evaluated likewise. Degree of weed control Z 0 0 9 1 10 29 2 30 3 50 69 4 70 89 5 90 100 Table 10. Weed control test in upland soil. EMI57.1 SEP Weed SEP control SEP activity tb SEP Application SEP Phytotoxicity tb Compound SEP No. SEP rate SEP Large SEP Green SEP to SEP sugar tb SEP g are SEP crabgrass SEP amaranth SEP Fat SEP hen SEP beet tb The SEP present tb compounds tb SEP 3 SEP 20 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb SEP 10 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb SEP 4 SEP 20 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb SEP 10 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb Reference tb compounds tb SEP 1 SEP 20 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb SEP 10 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 0 tb SEP 2 SEP 20 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 0 tb SEP 10 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 0 tb SEP 5 SEP 20 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb SEP 10 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb SEP 6 SEP 20 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb SEP 10 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb The results of test for the fungicidal activity of the present compounds are described below for reference.The fungicidal activity of the triazolyl alcohol derivative was far higher than those of the triazolyl alcohol derivative and the racemate.Preparation Example 1 Dust. Two parts of the compound No. 1, 88 parts of clay and 10 parts of talc are thoroughly mixed by grinding to form a dust preparation containing 2 of the active ingredient. Preparation Example 2 Dust. Three parts of the compound No. 2, 67 parts of clay and 30 parts of talc are thoroughly mixed by grinding to form a dust preparation containing 3 of the active ingredient.Preparation Example 3 Wettable powder. Thirty parts of the compound No. 1, 45 parts of diatomaceous earth, 20 parts of white carbon, 3 parts of a wetting agent sodium lauryl sulfate and 2 parts of a dispersant calcium ligninsulfonate are throughly mixed by grinding to form a wettable powder preparation containing 30 of the active ingredient.Preparation Example 4 Wettable powder. Fifty parts of the compound No. 2, 45 parts of diatomaceous earth, 2.5 parts of a wetting agent calcium alkylbenzenesulfonate and 2.5 parts of a dispersant calcium ligninsulfonate are thoroughly mixed by grinding to form a wettable powder preparation containing 50 of the active ingredient.Preparation Example 5 Emulsifiable concentrate. Ten parts of the compound No. 1, 80 parts of cyclohexanone and 10 parts of an emulsifier polyoxyethyiene alkylaryl ether are mixed to form an emulsifiable concentrate containing 10 of the active ingredient.Preparation Example 6 Granule. Five parts by weight of the compound No. 2, 4G parts by weight of bentonite, 50 parts by weight of clay and 5 parts by weight of sodium ligninsulfonate are thoroughly mixed by grinding. The resulting mixture is sufficiently milled together with water, then granulated and dried to yield a granule preparation.Preparation Example 7 Dust. Two parts of the compound No. 3, 88 parts of clay and 10 parts of talc are thoroughly mixed by grinding to form a dust preparation containing 2 of the active ingredient.Preparation Example 8 Dust. Three parts of the compound No. 4, 67 parts of clay and 30 parts of talc are thoroughly mixed by grinding to form a dust preparation containing 3Z of the active ingredient. Preparation Example 9 Wettable powders Thirty parts of the compound No. 3, 45 parts of diatomaceous earth, 20 parts of white carbon, 3 parts of a wetting agent sodium lauryl sulfate and 2 parts of a dispersant calcium ligninsulfonate are thoroughly mixed by grinding to form a wettable powder preparation containing 30 of the active ingredient.Preparation Example 10 Wettable powder. Fifty parts of the compound No. 4, 45 parts of diatomaceous earth, 2.5 parts of a wetting agent calcium alkylbenzenesulfonate and 2.5 parts of a dispersant calcium ligninsulfonate are thoroughly mixed by grinding to form a wettable powder containing 50 of the active ingredient.Preparation Example 11 Emulsifiable concentrate. Ten parts of the compound No. 3, 80 parts of cyclohexanone and 10 parts of an emulsfier polyoxyethylene alkylaryl ether are mixed to form an emulsiflable concentrate containing 10 of the active ingredient. Preparation Example 12 Granule. Five parts by weight of the compound No. 4, 40 parts by weight of bentonite, 50 parts by weight of clay and 5 parts by weight of sodium ligninsulfonate are thoroughly mixed by grinding, then thoroughly milled together with water, granulated, and dried to form a granule preparation. Preparation Example 13 Liquid. 0.05 Parts by weight of the compound No. 3, 1 part by weight of Hymal 1009 a surfactant produced by Matsumoto Yushi Co. , 1 part by weight of Newcol 56c a nonionic emulsifier , 2.5 parts by weight of cyclohexanone and 95.45 parts by weight of water are mixed to form a liquid preparation.