# METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR LAYING A PNEUMATIC TYRE AROUND A WHEEL RIM

## Claims
Verfahren zum Aufziehen eines Schlauchreifens 8 auf eine Radfelge 5 mit Hilfe von wenigstens einem Paar Montageeinheiten 11 mit folgenden Verfahrensschritten

## Description
The invention relates to a method for laying a pneumatic tyre around a wheel rim by means of a mounting unit which is moved along the wheel rim as well as to an apparatus for laying a pneumatic tyre around a wheel rim using this method. Such a method for laying a pneumatic tyre around a wheel rim is already known from practice, wherein a single mounting unit is moved along substantially the whole cicumference of the wheel rim. During this movement, a great circumferential force is exerted by the mounting unit on the wheel rim as well as on the pneumatic tyre. Hereby, on the one hand, the wheel rim tends to rotate about its axis, so that this wheel rim has to be clamped in all directions, whilst, on the other hand, the pneumatic tyre tends to rotate with respect to the wheel rim, whereby a force is exerted on the valve giving rise to the danger of the valve being pulled to a slanting position. Furthermore, it is difficult to mount tight tyres without the risk of damaging the tyre, particularly when the last portion of the upper bead is laid around the wheel rim. US A 3,489,198 discloses a method and an apparatus according to the preambles of claims 1 and 4 for mounting large stiff tyres on wheel rims for automobiles or the like, utilizing a pair of mounting units moving with equal speeds along the wheel rim in opposite directions. It is an object of the present invention to provide a method and an apparatus for laying a pneumatic tyre around a wheel rim, wherein the above disadvantages are removed in an efficient way. For this purpose, according to a first aspect, the invention proposes a method for laying a pneumatic tyre around a wheel rim by means of at least one pair of mounting units, as defined in claim 1. When this method is used the component of the resulting force of the mounting units, which extends in the plane of the wheel rim, is directed through the axis of rotation of the wheel rim, so that this force does not cause a rotation of the wheel rim. Therefore, the wheel rim does not have to be clamped in all directions, since axial and radial fixations will already be sufficient. For the same reason, the pneumatic tyre will not rotate with respect to the wheel rim, so that no force is exerted on the valve and the tyre in its applied condition will lie in a better centred position in the wheel rim. The method according to the invention also offers the advantage of considerably reducing tyre damage when the last portion of the outer bead is laid around the wheel rim, whilst, furthermore, it permits even very tight tyres to be laid around the wheel rim. In a further aspect the invention further includes an apparatus for laying a pneumatic tyre around a wheel rim as defined in independent claim 4. Particular embodiments of the invention are included in the dependent claims. It is noted that in the present description, in the non assembled condition of the tyre to be laid around the wheel rim, the bead which is adjacent to the wheel rim is called the lower or inner bead, and the bead which lies further away from the wheel rim is indicated as the upper or outer. The invention will hereafter be elucidated with reference to the drawings, which show an embodiment of the apparatus for laying a pneumatic tyre around a wheel rim according to the invention. Fig. 1 is a plan view of an embodiment of the apparatus according to the invention. Fig. 2 is a front view of fig. 1. Fig. 3 shows a portion of the front view of fig. 2, wherein the inner bead rolls are represented in their work position. Fig. 4 is a section on the line IV IV in fig. 1, on a bigger scale. Fig. 5 is a section on the line V V in fig. 1, on a bigger scale. Fig. 6 shows the section of fig. 5 with the pneumatic tyre in the applied condition. Fig. 7 is a section on the line VII VII in fig. 1, on a bigger scale. Fig. 8 is an enlarged detail of fig. 2, which partially in section shows the pinching sliding means. The drawing shows, by way of example, an embodiment of the apparatus according to the invention for laying a pneumatic tyre around a wheel rim, which is provided with a table 1 carrying the several parts of the apparatus. On this apparatus, a spoke wheel 2 may be placed, the wheel 2 having a shaft 3, a wheel rim 5 provided with a valve hole 4, an inner tube with a valve, and an outer tyre 8. When the outer tyre 8 will be applied, the wheel 2 is put with its shaft 3 in a cavity of a hub support 9 so as to align the shaft 3 of the wheel 2 with a central axis 10 of the apparatus. Of both wire reinforced beads of the outer tyre 8, which have to be laid around the wheel rim 5, in the not applied condition of the tyre, the bead which is adjacent to the wheel rim 5 is called the inner bead, whilst the bead which lies further away from the wheel rim 5 is designated the outer bead as already stated hereinbefore. In the situation as shown in the drawings, in which the outer tyre 8 in its not applied state lies on the wheel rim 5, the outer bead lies above the inner bead and both beads have to be brought over the adjacent rim edge of the wheel rim 5, which, in the embodiment represented in the drawings, is the upper rim edge. The inner bead of the outer tyre 8 is always the first one to be laid around the wheel rim 5. At the circumference of the wheel 2 supported on the apparatus, two mounting units 11 which are of similar built mirror imaged design are each mounted on their own platform 12 at the outer end of a respective arm 13. These arms 13 are rotatable about the central axis 10 by a drive means 14. This drive means 14 is shown in fig. 2 and comprises a motor 15, preferably an electric motor, of which the output shaft is provided with a bevel pinion gear 16, which is in engagement with two similar crown gears 17, which are rotatable in opposite directions and which are each connected to the respective arm 13 by means of a hollow shaft 18. Because the crown gears 17 are similar they will rotate with the same speed of revolution in opposite directions, so that the mounting units 11, which are connected to the crown gears 17 are rotating with equal, but oppositely directed angular speeds. Each mounting unit 11 is rotatable along an angle of substantially 180 , and both mounting units are adjacent to each other in their extreme positions. Fig. 5 7 show a mounting unit separately. Each mounting unit 11 comprises parts, which in principle perform four functions, viz. These parts are connected substantially to the central support 19 of the mounting unit. The parts of each mounting unit 11 which serve for lifting the outer tyre 8 ad a comprise a tyre lifting arm 20 pivoting about a shaft 22 which is supported by the central support 19, the tyre lifting arm 20 can be pressed with one end against the flank of the outer tyre 8 which is adjacent to the inner bead, the tyre lifting arm 20 being pivotably connected with its other end to a cylinder rod assembly 21, which is hingedly connected to the central support 19. The parts of each mounting unit 11, which serve for laying the inner bead around the wheel rim 5 ad b comprise an inner bead roll 24 rotatably mounted on an arm 23. This arm 23 is rotatable about a shaft 27 which perpendicularly crosses the central axis and which is supported by the central support 19 and this arm 23 is furthermore connected to a cylinder rod assembly 26 with interposition of a linkage 25. The linkage 25 serves for enlarging the reach of adjustment of the cylinder rod assembly 26 so as to make the arm 23 pivotable along a wider angle about the shaft 27 compare fig. 2 and 3 the linkage 25 and the cylinder rod assembly 26 are hingedly connected to the central support 19. The parts of each mounting unit 11, which serve for laying the outer bead around the wheel rim 5 ad c comprise an outer bead roll 29 which is rotatably mounted on an arm 28. This outer bead roll 29 consists of two cylindrical portions with different diameters, wherein the portion at the free end of the arm 18 has the smallest diameter. The arm 28 is pivotable about a shaft 30 which perpendicularly crosses the central axis 10 and which is supported by the central support 19, whilst the end of the arm 28 facing away from the outer bead roll 29 is hingedly connected to a cylinder rod assembly 31. The parts of each mounting unit 11, which serve for stressing and pinching the outer tyre 8 in the wheel rim 5 ad d comprise a pinching sliding means consisting of two independently adjustable sliding members 32, which are pivotable about parallel shafts 33 supported on the central support 19 and perpendicularly crossing the central axis 10. For pivoting the sliding members 32 the end of each sliding member 32 facing away from the free end thereof is hingedly connected to a cylinder rod assembly 35 which is pivotably mounted to the central support 19. Each sliding member 32 comprises a wheel 34, which at its circumference can engage the respective flank of the outer tyre 8. The wheel 34 is rotatable about a screw 50, which is fixed to the free end of an arm 51, which is hingedly connected to the central support 19. A sleeve 52 is placed on the arm 51 concentrically about the screw 50. A portion of the wheel 34 is guided in the sleeve 52. Furthermore, a brake lining 53 is slidable in the sleeve 52, but the brake lining 53 is locked against a rotation about the screw 50 by means of cams 55, which are provided on the brake lining and which are guided in axial slots 54 in the sleeve 52. A coil spring 56 is positioned between the brake lining 53 and the arm 51, the coil spring 56 urging the brake lining 53 against the adjacent surface of the wheel 54 to exert a braking action on the wheel 34. Each mounting unit 11 further comprises a rim support roll 37 rotatably mounted on a support 36, the rim support roll 37 supporting the wheel rim 5 in the downwardly pivoted position of the inner bead roll 24 or of the outer bead roll 29. All hinging parts mounted on the mounting unit pivot about shafts, which perpendicularly cross the central axis 10. Under each mounting unit 11 a proximity switch 38 is provided, which is directed to the table 1 and which serves for switching off the drive motor 15 in particular positions of the mounting units 11. For this purpose, detection elements 39 are positioned on the table 1, the detection elements 39 causing the proximity switch 38 to give a pulse for stopping the drive motor 15, when the proximity switch 38 at a distance moves over one of the detection elements 39. Each mounting unit 11 has to be stopped at three places, viz. in a starting position dot and dash line marked with SP , in an end position dot and dash line marked with EP and in a tyre centering position dot and dash line marked with CP . On the table, at the places which correspond with these positions, detection elements 39 are provided. At the radially outer side of the wheel 2 supported on the apparatus and near one of the points of intersection of the mirror image plane of the mounting units 11 and the center of the rim bed of the wheel rim 5, four rotatable rolls 40, 41, 42, 43 see fig. 4 are provided The tyre centering rolls 42, 43, respectively, are positioned in such manner that they each make a small angle to the tangent of the wheel rim 5, which tangent extends through the point of the wheel rim 5, which lies closest to the center of the respective tyre centering roll 42, 43, respectively. The tyre centering rolls 42 and 43 are driven by means of electric motors or the like not shown . Fig. 1 and 3 show a valve connection 44 within the circumference of the wheel rim 5, which valve connection 44 is mounted on an arm 46 through a support 45, the arm 46 being rotatable about the central axis 10. A compressed air line for inflating the inner tube extends from the valve connection 44 through the arm 46 to the central axis 10, whereafter this line is led via the hollow shafts of the crown gears 17 to a compressed air connection 47, to which a hose of a compressed air installation can be connected. Directly behind the valve connection 44 a positioning cam 48 with inclined upper faces is provided, on which wheel spokes lying on either side of the valve rest when the tyre 8 is laid around the wheel rim 5. A rim support 49 for supporting the wheel rim 5 is mounted on the table at the circumference of the wheel 2 diametrically opposed to the tyre centering rolls 42, 43. All parts which have to engage the wheel 2, such as the mounting units 11, the valve connection 44, the rim support roll 40, the rim clamping roll 41 and the tyre centering rolls 42, 43 are adjustable in the radial direction so as to be adaptable to the diameter of the wheel rim 5. The method for laying an outer tyre 8 around a wheel rim 5 by means of the apparatus described hereinbefore is as follows In fig. 1 these positions are indicated by dot and dash lines marked with SP. All the rolls 24, 29, 41, 43 which can be placed on the outer tyre 8 are in their upwardly pivoted positions, while the sliding members of the pinching sliding means are open and the tyre lifting arms 20 are in their lowest position. The apparatus is inclined in the direction of the operator and the inclination is preferably approximately 45 , so as to make it possible to put in and take out the wheel 2 in the most advantageous way. A wheel 2 already comprises an inner tube and an outer tyre 8. The inner bead of the outer tyre 8 is already locally urged over the upper rim edge in the vicinity of the valve hole 4 in the wheel rim 5, whilst the valve of the inner tube is already fixed in the valve hole 4 and the inner tube lies completely in the interior of the outer tyre 8. To obtain this latter condition the inner tube is inflated to a starting pressure p The method described hereinbefore can also be used partly. The actions according to the steps a to d can be done by hand so that the inner bead of the outer tyre 8 is already placed on the wheel rim 5 before the wheel 2 is placed in the apparatus. Of course, a more simple apparatus can be used for this latter method. According to the invention, a method and an apparatus are provided for laying a pneumatic tyre around a wheel rim, wherein the several steps are almost fully automatized. The apparatus according to the invention therefore is very suitable for computer control. The invention is not restricted to the embodiment shown in the drawings by way of example, which can be varied in different ways within the scope of the invention as claimed.