# LACTIC ACID DERIVATIVE, LIQUID CRYSTAL COMPOSITION CONTAINING SAME AND LIQUID CRYSTAL DEVICE

## Claims
Milchsäurederivat mit einer optisch aktivan Gruppe, die durch die folgende Formel A oder B wiedergegeben wird

## Description
The present invention relates to a lactic acid derivative capable of being readily modified with respect to its molecular structure and having an optical activity, and a composition containing the lactic acid derivative. More specifically, the present invention relates to a lactic acid derivative and a liquid crystal composition containing the same adapted for use in liquid crystal devices such as display devices and optical shutters, and also to a liquid crystal device using the same. The lactic acid derivative of the present invention is particularly useful as an optically active intermediate for synthesis of functional materials necessary for production of various optical devices characterized by their optical activity. Examples of such optical devices characterized by optical activity or optical modulation function include the following These optical devices are important as display devices and modulation devices, while the explanation of the individual systems is left to the respective references and omitted. Heretofore, as optically active intermediates for synthesizing functional materials necessary for such optical devices characterized by optical activity, those compounds are known such as 2 methylbutanol, sec octyl alcohol, sec butyl alcohol, p 2 methylbutyl benzoic acid chloride, sec phenethyl alcohol, amino acid derivatives, camphor derivatives and cholesterol derivatives. However, these intermediates involve respective problems as follows. Thus, optically active chain hydrocarbon derivatives are difficult to modify their structures and very expensive except for a particular class thereof. Amino acid derivatives are relatively cheap and easy to modify their structures, whereas N hydrogens therein are chemically active and liable to cause hydrogen bonding or other chemical reactions so that the performances of the resultant functional material can be restricted thereby. Camphor derivatives and cholesterol derivatives are difficult to modify the structures and the steric hindrance is liable to provide ill effects to the performances of the resultant functional materials. These problems have provided great difficulties in developing various functional materials. On the other hand, in the field of liquid crystal devices, there have been a well known type of liquid crystal devices using TN twisted nematic type liquid crystals as shown, for example, in Voltage Dependent Optical Activity of a Twisted Nematic Liquid Crystal by M. Schadt and W. Helfrich, Applied Physics Letters Vol. 18, No. 4 Feb. 15, 1971 pp. 127 128. In this type of liquid crystal devices, the number of picture elements have been restricted, because there is a problem that a crosstalk phenomenon occurs when a device of a matrix electrode structure with a high density of picture elements is driven according to a time sharing or time division driving scheme. As another type of liquid crystal device, there has been known one comprising a plurality of picture elements each connected to and subject to switching by a thin film transistor as a switching element. This type of liquid crystal device, however, is accompanied with problems such that production of thin film transistors on a substrate is very complicated, and production of a display device with a large picture area or screen is difficult. In order to obviate the above mentioned drawbacks of the conventional types of liquid crystal devices, Clark and Lagerwall have proposed the use of a liquid crystal device wherein a ferroelectric liquid crystal is disposed in a thin layer having a thickness less than 5 times that of the spiral pitch thereof so that its spiral structure is unwound to develop a bistability e.g., U.S. Patent No. 4367924 . As the bistable liquid crystal, a ferroelectric crystal showing a chiral smectic C phase SmC Such a ferroelectric liquid crystal has bistability, i.e., has two stable states comprising a first stable state and a second stable state. Accordingly, different from the conventional TN type liquid crystal in the above mentioned device, the liquid crystal is oriented to the first stable state in response to one electric field vector and to the second stable state in response to the other electric field vector. Further, this type of liquid crystal very quickly assumes either one of the above mentioned two stable states in reply to an electric field applied thereto and retains the state in the absence of an electric field. By utilizing these properties, essential improvements can be attained with respect to the above mentioned difficulties involved in the conventional TN type liquid crystal device. However, in order that optical modulation device in which a liquid crystal having bistability is used can realize desired driving characteristics, it is required that a liquid crystal disposed between a pair of parallel base plates has a molecule arrangement such that molecules can effectively be switched between the two stable states independent of the application of an electric field. For instance, in connection with ferroelectric liquid crystals having SmC For instance, in order to give such an orientation, Clark et al. have proposed a method of applying an electric field, a method of applying shearing stress, and a method of arranging ridges in parallel with each other at a small interval between base plates, etc. However, these methods could not necessarily provide satisfactory results. For instance, the method of applying an electric field has drawbacks that it requires a large scale apparatus and is not compatible with a thin layer cell having excellent operational characteristics. Further, the method of applying a shearing stress has drawback that it is not compatible with a method of filling a liquid crystal after a cell is prepared. Furthermore, the method of arranging parallel ridges within the cell cannot provide stable orientation effect by itself. Further, when the liquid crystal device showing bistability is driven for line by line writing operation, some of picture elements which have been written corresponding to information signals for the picture can change the stable orientation of the liquid crystal from the orientation state for displaying the written signal to the other orientation state to cause several of the written picture elements. This is for example, a phenomenon that picture elements which have been written to display white signal are reversed to the state for displaying black signal. Such reversal phenomena makes it difficult to use the ferroelectric liquid crystal device as a display device. A principal object of the present invention is to provide a significant step to solve the above described problems. More specifically, an object of the invention is to provide a compound which can be combined with an intermediate for a functional material having appropriate inter molecular force and shape without impairing an optical activity, and therefore susceptible of arbitrary molecular designing. According to one aspect of the present invention, there is provided a lactic acid derivative having an optically active group represented by the following formula A or B In a second aspect the invention provides a liquid crystal composition comprising 0.01 100 parts of a lactic acid derivative as aforesaid and 100 parts by weight of another liquid crystal component. According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a liquid crystal device comprising a pair of base plates, and a liquid crystal material showing a smectic phase and a higher temperature phase, said liquid crystal material comprising a mesomorphic compound having an optically active group represented by the formula A or B shown below or a liquid crystal composition containing the mesomorphic compound, said liquid crystal material being in the smectic phase formed by phase transition from the higher temperature phase EP A 0110299 Hitachi discloses compounds represented by the formula The present invention enables the production of mesomorphic compounds having an alkyl chain whose length may be varied and which is therefore capable of controlling the kind of liquid crystal phase exhibited in the liquid crystal state and a temperature range therefor as shown by H. Arnold Z. Phys. Chem., The invention also enables the provision of a ferroelectric liquid crystal device which has potential adaptability a display device having a high response speed characteristic, a high density of picture elements and a large display area or an optical shutter having a high shutter speed and to have the ferroelectric liquid crystal device fully exhibit its performances by improving the monodomain formation characteristic or the initial alignment characteristic which has been the principal problem of the device. The invention enables the provision of a liquid crystal device for time sharing driving wherein the above mentioned reversal phenomenon has been prevented and a display state written corresponding to an information signal can be stably retained for a period of one frame or one field. In the drawings Figure 1 shows an IR spectrum KBr disk method of a compound obtained in Example 4, Figure 2 an IR spectrum KBr disk method of a compound obtained in Example 9, and Figure 3 an IR spectrum Bulk method Figures 4 and 5 are schematic perspective views illustrating the basic operation principle of a liquid crystal device using a chiral smectic liquid crystal Figure 6A is a plan view showing an example of the liquid crystal device according to the present invention, Figure 6B is a sectional view taken along the line A A in Figure 6A Figure 7 is a sectional view showing another example of the liquid crystal device according to the present invention Figure 8 is a sectional view schematically showing a tilt or oblique vapor deposition apparatus for use in production of the liquid crystal device according to the present invention Figure 9 is a schematic plan view showing an electrode arrangement of a liquid crystal device according to the present invention Figures 10A to 10D illustrate signals for driving a liquid crystal device according to the present invention Figures 11A to 11D illustrate waveforms applied to respective picture elements and Figure 12 illustrates waveforms applied in time series to a liquid crystal device according to the present invention. As stated hereinbefore, the present invention provides an optically active lactic acid derivative of the following formula I More specifically the following compounds of the formulas 1 to 8 are provided In the above formulas, R Specific examples of the groups R, R The groups R₁ R₈ are respectively an alkyl or alkoxy group having 1 to 20 carbon atoms, while n₁, n₂, m₁ and m₂ are respectively 1 or 2. The groups Rb and Rc can be easily replaced by another groups by reaction with a reagent under appropriate conditions. In this instance, mesomorphic compounds and other functional compounds may be obtained by using various reagents. In order to synthesize functional materials adapted for use in optical devices, modulation devices, etc., it is effective to combine the optically active lactic acid derivative without impairing the optical activity with an intermediate of functional material having an appropriate intermolecular force and shape and susceptible of molecular control. Examples of such intermediates of functional material effective for combination with the lactic acid derivative according to the present invention include azo derivatives, azoxy derivatives, ring assembly hydrocarbon derivatives, condensed polycyclic hydrocarbon derivatives, heterocyclic derivatives, condensed heterocyclic derivatives, and ring assembly heterocyclic derivatives. More specifically, there are included azobenzene derivatives, azoxybenzene derivatives, biphenyl derivatives, terphenyl derivatives, phenylcyclohexane derivatives, benzoic acid derivatives pyrimidine derivatives, pyrazine derivatives, pyridine derivatives, stilbene derivatives, tolan derivatives, chalcone derivatives, bicyclohexane derivatives, and cinnamic acid derivatives. In the following is explained a process of synthesizing a compound having a releasable chemically active group Rb as an example of the lactic acid derivative shown by the formula I according to the present invention Thus, a compound wherein the Rb is an alkoxyl the compound of the above formula a may be produced by reacting a lactic acid ester and a hydrocarbon iodide in the presence of Further, a compound wherein the Rb is a hydroxyl the compound of the above formula b may be synthesized by hydrolyzing the compound of the formula a with a base and then neutralizing the hydrolyzed product. Then, a compound wherein the Rb is a halogen atom the compound of the formula c may be produced by reacting the compound of the above formula b with a halogenation agent such as The RI in the above reaction scheme may be selected from a wide scope of iodides. Examples thereof include linear saturated hydrocarbon iodides such as iodobutane, iodopentane, iodohexane, iodoheptane, iodooctane, iodononane, iododecane, iodoundecane, iodododecane, iodotridecane, iodotetradecane, iodopentadecane, iodohexadecane, iodoheptadecane, iodooctadecane, iodononadecane, and iodocicosane branched saturated hydrocarbon iodides such as 2 iodobutane, 2 iodo 2 methylpropane and 1 iodo 3 methylbutane cyclic unsaturated hydrocarbon iodides such as iodo benzyl, iodophenacyl and 3 iodo 1 cyclohexene and cyclic saturated hydrocarbon iodides such as iodocyclopentane, iodocyclohexane, 1 iodo 3 methylcyclohexane, iodocycloheptane and iodocyclooctane. An appropriate RI may be selected from the iodides as described above to obtain an optically active lactic acid derivative according to the present invention. Optical rotation data of some examples of the optically active lactic acid derivatives obtained from the linear saturated hydrocarbon iodides are shown in the following Table 1. By using various lactic acid derivatives obtained in the manner as described above, mesomorphic compounds represented by the formulas II and III were obtained along the following reaction scheme. Some representative examples of the mesomorphic compounds are as follows. Then, an exemplary process for synthesizing a compound having a releasable chemically active group Rc as an example of the lactic acid derivative according to the present invention is explained hereinbelow. A compound of the above formula d may be obtained by reacting a lactic acid ester and a hydrocarbon iodide in the presence of Further, a compound wherein the Rc is a hydroxyl the compound of the above formula e may be synthesized by treating the compound of the formula d with a reducing agent such as Then, a compound wherein the Rc is a halogen atom may be produced by reacting the compound of the above formula e with a halogenation agent such as The RI in the above reaction scheme may be the same as those described above with reference to the compounds of the formulas b and c . Optical rotation data of examples of the optically active lactic acid derivatives obtained from the linear saturated hydrocarbon iodides are shown in the following Table 2. By using various lactic acid derivatives obtained in the manner as described above, mesomorphic compounds represented by the formulas IV VI were obtained along the following reaction schemes. Some representative examples of the lactic acid derivatives are as follows. A particularly preferred class of these lactic acid derivatives may be represented by the following formula Q When the lactic acid derivative according to the present invention is used, it is possible to obtaine an optically active mesomorphic compound havinig a mesomorohicity imparting skeletons such as those of azobenzene, azoxybenzene, biphenyl, phenylcyclohexane, benzoic acid, pyrimidine, pyrazine, pyridine, stilbene, tolan, chalcone, bicyclohexane, and cinnamic acid with side chains of arbitrarily controlled lengths, molecular weights and shapes, and thus an objective compound with desired physical properties. Heretofore, it has been possible only to change a side chain remote from an asymmetric carbon, whereas it has become possible to change both terminal groups according to the present invention. This is a very significant step to utilization of liquid crystals and LB films as functional elements and to molecular designing for desired purposes. Further, the optically active lactic acid derivative according to the present invention is effectively used for providing a smectic liquid crystal with increased spontaneous polarization of ferroelectricity. In one aspect of the present invention, the above mentioned mesomorphic compound is used alone or in combination of two or more species thereof to provide a liquid crystal composition. It is also possible to mix at least one of the mesomorphic compound with another mesomorphic compound, particularly a ferroelectric liquid crystal compound to provide a liquid crystal composition showing ferroelectricity. This is a particularly prefereed embodiment of application of the present invention from the viewpoint of providing a ferroelectric liquid crystal with improved properties such as an increased spontaneous polarization. Specific examples of ferroelectric liquid crystal compounds as other liquid crystal components for producing such a liquid crystal composition are enumerated below When the above mentioned lactic acid derivative functions as a ferroelectric liquid crystal by itself, it may be mixed with a cholesteric liquid crystal compound as follows Hereinbelow, processes of preparing the compounds according to the present invention will be explained by way of specific examples. In the following examples, the phase transition temperature was measured by a DSC differential scanning calorimeter SSC 580 DS, manufactured by Seiko Denshi K.K. , and the phase transition was confirmed by placing a liquid crystal sealed between glass plates in a copper block under temperature control and observing it through a polarizing microscope. 31.5 g of L ethyl lactate and 107.3 g of 1 iodobutane were charged into a 4 necked flask, and freshly prepared 64.7 g of L ethyl lactate and 95.2 g of 1 iodoheptane were mixed, and freshly prepared 47.0 g of L ethyl lactate and 88.4 g of 1 iododecane were charged into a flask and mixed under an N₂ stream, and 42.1 g of freshly prepared 15.5 g of ethyl 2 butoxy propionate produced in the same manner as in Example 1 was added dropwise into 40 ml of 5M 15.1 g of ethyl 2 heptoxy propionate produced in the same manner as in Example 2 was added dropwise into 40 ml of 3.8M 60.5 g of L ethyl lactate and 95.4 g of 1 iodooctadecane were mixed, and 71.7 g of freshly prepared 47.4 g of L ethyl lactate and 93.9 g of 1 iododecane were mixed, and 60.1 g of freshly prepared 30.1 g 0.17 M of 4 hexylaniline was cooled to 0 C or below, 85 g of 10 aqueous hydrochloric acid solution was added, and then a solution of 11.6 g of sodium nitrite in 68 g of water was added. During the addition, the mixture was cooled so as not to exceed 0 C. After the addition, the mixture was allowed to react for 30 minutes, transferred into a dropping funnel and added dropwise into 170 g of an 8 2.4 g of 2 butoxypropionic acid was charged in a flask and 2.5 g of thionyl chloride was gradually added thereto to allow a reaction for 30 minutes followed by removal of thionyl chloride by distillation. The thus obtained 2 butoxypropionic acid chloride was added to a mixture of 3.0 g of the 4 hydroxy 4 hexylazobenzene and 20 ml of dry pyridine. The mixture was allowed to react for about 20 hours at room temperature and charged into deionized water for cooling. The resultant precipitate was separated by filtration, recrystallized in ethanol and dried under vacuum to obtain 1.1 g of 4 hexyl 4 α butoxypropanoyloxyazobenzene. The product showed the following properties 32.9 g 0.17 M of 4 heptylaniline was cooled to 0 C or below, 85 g of 10 aqueous hydrochloric acid solution was added, and then a solution of 12.1 g of sodium nitrite in 70 ml of water was added. During the addition, the mixture was cooled so as not to exceed 0 C. After the addition, the mixture was allowed to react for 30 minutes, transferred into a dropping funnel and added dropwise into 300 ml of an 8 2.4 g of 2 butoxypropionic acid was charged in a flask and 2.5 g of thionyl chloride was gradually added thereto to allow a reaction for 30 minutes followed by removal of thionyl chloride by distillation. The thus obtained 2 butoxypropionic acid chloride was added to a mixture of 3.2 g of the 4 hydroxy 4 heptylazaobenzene and 20 mg of dry pyridine. The mixture was allowed to react for about 5 hours at room temperature and charged into deionized water for cooling. The resultant precipitate was separated by filtration, recrystallized in ethanol and further purified by a silica gel column chromatography with benzene as the solvent to obtain 1.2 g of 4 heptyl 4 α butoxypropanoyloxyazobenzene. The product showed the following properties The IR spectrum KBr disk method of the products is shown in Figure 2. 35 g 0.17 M of 4 octylaniline was cooled to 0 C or below, 85 g of 10 aqueous hydrochloric acid solution was added, and then a solution of 12.0 g of sodium nitrite in 68 ml of water was added. During the addition, the mixture was cooled so as not to exceed 0 C. After the addition, the mixture was allowed to react for 30 minutes, transferred into a dropping funnel and added dropwise into 170 g of an 8 NaOH aqueous solution containing 16 g of phenol held at 5 C or below. After the addition, the mixture was stirred for 1 hour, and then 10 hydrochloric acid aqueous solution was added thereto until a pH of 5 6 to precipitate the reaction product. The precipitate was separated by filtration, washed with water and dried overnight under reduced pressure. After the drying, the product was washed with 500 ml of petroleum ether and further dried under reduced pressure to obtain 30.8 g 0.10 M of 4 hydroxy 4 octylazobenzene. The yield was 59 . Into a solution of 5 g of KOH in 50 ml of ethanol, 12.4 g of 4 hydroxy 4 octylazobenzene was charged and allowed to react for 6 hours. The ethanol was distilled off, and the precipitated crystal was washed with acetone and dried under reduced pressure to obtain 8.8 g of potassium 4 octyl 4 hydroxyazobenzene. 2.8 g of thionyl chloride was gradually added dropwise to 2.1 g of 2 butoxypropionic acid. The mixture was allowed to react for 30 minutes at room temperature and then thionyl chloride was distilled off. The thus obtained 2 butoxypropionic acid chloride was added dropwise to a mixture of 3.6 g of potassium 4 octyl 4 hydroxyazobenzene, 16 ml of acetone and 0.84 g of Into a cooled mixture of 16.5 g of n hexyloxyaniline and 50 ml of deionized water, 43 g of 10 hydrochloric acid aqueous solution was added. Then, a solution of 5.9 g of 2.4 g of 2 butoxypropionic acid was charged in a flask and 2.5 g of thionyl chloride was gradually added thereto to allow a reaction for 30 minutes followed by removal of thionyl chloride by distillation. The thus obtained 2 butoxypropionic acid chloride was added to a mixture of 3.2 g of the 4 hydroxy 4 hexyloxyazobenzene and 20 ml of dry pyridine stirred in a flask. The mixture was allowed to stand for about 20 hours at room temperature and charged into deionized water for cooling. The resultant precipitate was separated by filtration, and further purified by a silica gel column chromatography with benzene as the solvent to obtain 2.0 g of 4 hexyloxy 4 α butoxypropanoyloxyazobenzene. The product showed the following properties 35 g 0.17 M of 4 octylaniline was cooled to 0 C or below, 85 g of 10 aqueous hydrochloride acid solution was added, and then a solution of 12.0 g of sodium nitrite in 68 ml of water was added. During the addition, the mixture was cooled so as not to exceed 0 C. After the addition, the mixture was allowed to react for 30 minutes, transferred into a dropping funnel and added dropwise into 170 g of an 8 3.8 g of 2 heptyloxypropionic acid was charged in a flask and 3.6 g of thionyl chloride was added thereto to allow a reaction for 30 minutes followed by removal of thionyl chloride by distillation. The thus obtained 2 heptyloxypropionic acid chloride was added to a mixture of 5.3 g of 4 potassiumoxy 4 octylazobenzene, 20 ml of acetone and 1.3 g of The IR spectrum bulk method of the product is shown in Figure 3. Into a cooled mixture of 16.5 g of n hexyloxyaniline and 50 ml of deionized water, 43 g of 10 hydrochloric acid aqueous solution was added. Then, a solution of 5.9 g of 3.8 g of 2 heptyloxypropionic acid was charged in a flask and 3.6 g of thionyl chloride was gradually added thereto to allow a reaction for 30 minutes followed by removal of thionyl chloride by distillation. The thus obtained 2 heptyloxypropionic acid chloride was added to a mixture of 4.5 g of the 4 hydroxy 4 hexyloxyazobenzene and 20 ml of dry pyridine stirred in a flask. The mixture was allowed to react for about 5 hours at room temperature and charged into deionized water for cooling. The resultant precipitate was separated by filtration, and purified by a silica gel column chromatography with benzene as the solvent to obtain 2.8 g of 4 hexyloxy 4 α heptyloxypropanoyloxyazobenzene. The product showed the following properties Into a cooled mixture of 16.5 g of n hexyloxyaniline and 50 ml of deionized water, 43 g of 10 hydrochloric acid aqueous solution was added. Then, a solution of 5.9 g of 2.4 g of 2 butoxypropionic acid was charged in a flask and 2.5 g of thionyl chloride was gradually added thereto to allow a reaction for 30 minutes followed by removal of thionyl chloride by distillation. The thus obtained 2 butoxypropionic acid chloride was added to a mixture of 3.2 g of the 4 hydroxy 4 hexyloxyazobenzene and 20 ml of dry pyridine stirred in a flask. The mixture was allowed to stand for 20 hours at room temperature and charged into deionized water for cooling. The resultant precipitate was separated by filtration, and purified by a silica gel column chromatography with benzene as the solvent to obtain 2.0 g of 4 hexyloxy 4 α butoxypropanoyloxyazobenzene having a melting point of 72.5 C. 0.81 g of the 4 hexyloxy 4 α butoxypropanoyloxyazobenzene was dissolved in 40 ml of glacial acetic acid and the mixture was stirred under heating at 50 60 C. About 5 ml of 31 35 g 0.17 M of 4 octylaniline was cooled to 0 C or below, 85 g of 10 aqueous hydrochloric acid solution was added, and then a solution of 12.0 g of sodium nitrite in 68 ml of water was added. During the addition, the mixture was cooled so as not to exceed 0 C. After the addition, the mixture was allowed to react for 30 minutes, transferred into a dropping funnel and added dropwise into 170 g of an 8 3.8 g of 2 heptyloxypropionic acid was charged in a flask and 3.6 g of thionyl chloride was added thereto to allow a reaction for 30 minutes followed by removal of thionyl chloride by distillation. The thus obtained 2 heptyloxypropionic acid chloride was added to a mixture of 5.3 g of 4 potassiumoxy 4 octylazobenzene, 20 ml of acetone and 1.3 g of 0.8 g of the 4 octyl 4 α heptyloxypropanoyloxyazobenzene was dissolved in 50 ml of glacial acetic acid and the mixture was stirred under heating at 50 60 C. 7 ml of 31 Into a cooled mixture of 16.5 g of n hexyloxyalinine and 50 ml of deionized water, 43 g of 10 hydrochloric acid aqueous solution was added. Then, a solution of 5.9 g of 3.8 g of 2 heptyloxypropionic acid was charged in a flask and 3.6 g of thionyl chloride was added thereto to allow a reaction for 30 minutes followed by removal of thionyl chloride by distillation. The thus obtained 2 heptyloxypropionic acid chloride was added to a mixture of 4.5 g of the 4 hydroxy 4 hexyloxyazobenzene and 20 ml of dry pyridine stirred in a flask. The mixture was allowed to stand for 20 hours at room temperature and charged into deionized water for cooling. The resultant precipitate was separated by filtration, and purified by a silica gel column chromatography with benzene as the solvent to obtain 2.8 g of 4 hexyloxy 4 α heptyloxypropanoyloxyazobenzene having a melting point of 69 C. 0.82 g of the 4 hexyloxy 4 α heptyloxypropanoyloxyazobenzene was dissolved in 55 ml of glacial acetic acid and the mixture was held at 50 60 C. 7 ml of 31 40 g of p hydroxybenzonitrile was dissolved in a mixture of 100 ml of ethanol and 125 ml of benzene. The solution was saturated with dry HCl and left standing for 1 2 days at room temperature. The solution was diluted with ether to precipitate a crystal, which was then separated by filtration to remove ether. Ammonia saturated ethanol was added thereto, and the mixture was left standing for 1 2 days. Then, ether was added to the mixture to cause recrystallization to 4 hydroxybenzamidine hydrochloride. 9 g of the 4 hydroxybenzamidine hydrochloride and 12 g of a decyl β dimethylaminoacrolein were added into anhydrous methanol containing 3.0 g of metallic sodium, and the mixture was refluxed for 10 hours. After distilling off the methanol, the product was charged in dilute acetic acid and extracted with ether. The extract was purified with a silica gel column chromatography to obtain 5 decyl 2 4 hydroxyphenyl pyrimidine. 10 ml of thionyl chloride was added to 2.0 g of α pentyloxypropionic acid and the mixture was refluxed under heat for 2 hours. Excess of thionyl chloride was distilled off to obtain α pentyloxypropionic acid chloride. 20 ml of dry pyridine was added thereto, and 7.0 g of 5 decyl 2 4 hydroxyphenyl pyrimidine dissolved in 50 ml of dry benzene was further added dropwise. After the addition, the mixture was refluxed under heat, charged into ice water and extracted with benzene. The extract was purified with a silica gel column chromatography to obtain 5 decyl 2 4 α pentyloxypropanoyloxyphenyl pyrimidine. 10 ml of thionyl chloride was added to 2.0 g of α dodecyloxypropionic acid, and the mixture was refluxed under heat for 2 hours. Excess of thionyl chloride was distilled off to obtain α dodecyloxypropionic acid chloride. 20 ml of dry pyridine was added thereto, and 5.0 g of 4,4 dihydroxybiphenyl was further added dropwise. After the addition, the mixture was refluxed under heat for 3 hours, charged into ice water, and extracted with benzene. The extract was purified with a silica gel column chromatography to obtain 4 hydroxy 4 α dodecyloxypropanoyloxybiphenyl. 40 ml of thionyl chloride was added to 2.0 g of p octyloxybenzoic acid, and the mixture was refluxed under heat for 2 hours. Then, excess of thionyl chloride was distilled off to obtain p octyloxybenzoic acid chloride. 20 ml of dry pyridine was added thereto, and the 4 hydroxy 4 α dodecyloxypropanoyloxybiphenyl dissolved in 40 ml of dry benzene was further added. The mixture was then refluxed for 5 hours, charged into ice water, and extracted with ether. The extract was purified with a silica gel column chromatography to obtain 4 α dodecyloxypropanoyloxybiphenyl ester of 4 octyloxybenzoic acid. 40 ml of thionyl chloride was added to 5.0 g of 4 octyloxybiphenylcarboxylic acid and the mixture was refluxed under heat for 3 hours. Excess of thionyl chloride was distilled off to obtain 4 octyloxybiphenyl carboxylic acid chloride, which was then added to a solution of 5.0 g of hydroquinone in 50 ml of pyridine. After 2 hours of reaction, the mixture was refluxed under heat for 10 hours, charged into ice water, and extracted with benzene. The extract was purified with a silica gel column chromatography to obtain 4 hydroxyphenyl ester of 4 octyloxybiphenylcarboxylic acid. 10 ml of thionyl chloride was added to 2.0 g of α octyloxypropionic acid, and the mixture was refluxed under heat for 2 hours. Then, excess of thionyl chloride was distilled off to obtain α octyloxypropionic acid chloride. 20 ml of dry pyridine was added thereto, and a solution of 5.0 g of p hydroxybenzoic acid dissolved in 40 ml of dry pyridine was further added. After the addition, the mixture was refluxed for 2 hours, charged into ice water, and extracted with benzene. The extract was purified with a silica gel column chromatography to obtain 4 α octyloxypropanoyloxybenzoic acid. 2.0 g of 4 α octyloxypropanoyloxybenzoic acid and 2.5 g of 4 hydroxyphenyl ester of 4 octyloxybiphenylcarboxylic acid were added to 50 g of polyphosphoric acid and reacted for 10 hours at 100 C. The reaction product was charged into ice water, extracted with benzene, and recrystallized in ethanol to obtain 4 4 α octyloxypropanoyloxybenzoyloxy phenyl ester of 4 octyloxybiphenylcarboxylic acid. A liquid crystal composition composed of 88 wt. of DOBAMBC and 12 wt. of the mesomorphic compound prepared in Example 12 was found to show SmC A liquid crystal composition as shown in the following Table 3 was prepared and found to show SmC A liquid crystal composition composed of 98 wt. of DOBAMBC and 2 wt. of the mesomorphic compound prepared in Example 12 was found to show a spontaneous polarization twice as large as that of MBRA 8 alone. MBRA 8 alone Ps 34.6 µc m² Tc T 21.8 C Example 22 Ps 60.1 µc m² Tc T 18.2 C The spontaneous polarization was determined by measuring a polarization inversion current. Reference Preprint for Year 1983, 9th Liquid Crystal Forum, pp 82, Miyazato, Takezoe, Fukuda et al. 2.0 g of 2.0 g of 2.2 g of The product showed the following properties 1.9 g of 4.5 g of The product showed the following properties 85 g of 4 oxybiphenyl was dissolved in 1.5 l of 1.5N 11.5 g of 4 methoxybiphenyl was dissolved in 75 ml of carbon disulfide just after distillation, then cooled to 0 2 C, and 9.5 g of anhydrous aluminum chloride was quickly added thereto under stirring. Then, 5.8 ml of acetyl chloride was added dropwise in 5 10 minutes. The temperature was gradually raised to 35 C to complete the reaction. After about 45 minutes of reflux, 60 ml of cooled conc. hydroehloric acid was added to cause decomposition. After blowing steam into the mixture to remove the solvent, the mixture was rapidly cooled under sufficient stirring to result in brownish pink crystal. In order to remove a 3 ketone isomer, the mixture was subjected to two times of extraction with 40 ml of ether and then recrystallized in isopropyl alcohol to obtain 4 acetyl 4 methoxybiphenyl having a melting point of 156.5 C at a yield of 60 77 . 18 g of 4 acetyl 4 methoxybiphenyl was dissolved in 285 ml of dioxane and oxidized with a dilute sodium hypobromite. The product was recrystallized in a mixture of ethanol and acetic acid to obtain 4 methoxybiphenyl 4 carboxylic acid. A mixture of 25 g of 4 methoxybiphenyl 4 carboxylic acid, 1 l of acetic acid and 200 ml of 48 bromic acid was refluxed for 12 14 hours and then thrown into 2.5 l of water. After cooling, the resultant crystal was collected to obtain 4 hydroxybiphenylcarboxylic acid. 0.01 mol of 4 hydroxybiphenylcarboxylic acid and 0.02 mol of potassium hydroxide were dissolved in a mixture of 300 ml of alcohol and 30 ml of water. Then, 1.2 ml of n octyl bromide was added thereto, and the resultant mixture was refluxed for 12 hours. A 10 potassium hydroxide solution containing 1.12 g of KOH was added and the resultant mixture was refluxed for 2 hours to cause hydrolysis. The product was recrystallized in a mixture of ethanol and glacial acetic acid to obtain 4 n octyloxybiphenyl carboxylic acid. 1.0 g of 4 n octyloxybiphenylcarboxylic acid was charged in a 4 necked flask, and 40 ml of thionyl chloride The following properties were observed. 1.0 g of 4 n octyloxybiphenylcarboxylic acid prepared in the same manner as in Example 28 was charged in a 4 necked flask, and 40 ml of thionyl chloride was added thereto. The mixture was stirred and refluxed under heat for 4 hours. After stopping the heating, the mixture was stirred for 7 hours, and thionyl chloride was distilled off. After the complete removal, 40 ml of dry pyridine was added, and a solution of 1.0 g of 2 butoxypropanol in 36 ml of dry benzene was added dropwise in 30 minutes. The mixture was left standing at room temperature for 19 hours. After distilling off the solvent, the residue was dissolved in benzene and subjected to a silica gel column chromatography with benzene as the solvent to obtain 0.5 g of 2 butoxypropyloctyloxybiphenyl 4 carboxylate. The following properties were observed. A mixture of 30 g of 2 4 butylphenyl malondialdehyde tetraethyl acetal, 40 ml of ethanol, 3.6 ml of water and 3 drops of conc. sulfuric acid was stirred for 18 hours at 50 C and diluted with ether. After non reacted 2 4 butylphenyl malondialdehyde tetraethyl acetal was removed by dil. 1.0 g of the thus obtained 4 5 4 butylphenyl pyrimidine 2 yl benzoic acid was charged in a flask together with 20 ml of thionyl chloride, and the mixture was refluxed under heat for 3 hours. After distilling of thionyl chloride, 20 ml of dry pyridine was added. While the resultant mixture being stirred under cooling with ice, a solution of 2 dodecyloxypropanol 3.8 g in 20 ml of benzene was added dropwise to the mixture. After the addition, the mixture was stirred for 2 hours and left standing for 12 hours. After distilling off the solvent, the product was purified with a silica gel column chromatography with a benzene THF solvent and further purified by recrystallization to obtain 0.7 g of 4 5 4 butylphenyl pyrimidine 2 yl benzoic acid 2 dodecyloxypropyl ester. The following properties were observed. A mixture of 25 g of 2 heptylmalondialdehyde tetraethyl acetal, 40 ml of ethanol, 4 ml of water and 3 drops of conc. sunfuric acid was stirred for 20 hours at 50 C and diluted with ether. After non reacted 2 heptylmalondialdehyde tetraethyl acetal was removed by dil. 1.0 g of the thus obtained 4 5 heptylpyrimidine 2 yl benzoic acid was charged in a flask together with 20 ml of thionyl chloride, and the mixture was refluxed under heat for 2 hours. After distilling of thionyl chloride, 20 ml of dry pyridine was added. While the resultant mixture being stirred under cooling with ice, a solution of 1.9 g of 2 decyloxypropanol in 20 ml of dry benzene was added dropwise to the mixture. After the addition, the mixture was stirred for 3 hours and left standing for 15 hours. After distilling off the solvent, the product was purified with a silica gel column chromatography with a chloroform solvent and further purified by recrystallization in ethanol to obtain 0.4 g of 4 5 heptylpyrimidine 2 yl benzoic acid 2 decyloxypropyl ester. The following properties were observed. A liquid crystal composition as shown in the following Table 4 was prepared and found to show a cholesteric phase in the range of 71 61 C and a smectic phase in the range of 61 10 C in the course of cooling. A liquid crystal composition as shown in the following Table 5 was prepared and found to show a liquid crystal phase in the range of 5 C 62 C in the course of cooling. A liquid crystal composition as shown in the following Table 6 was prepared and found to show a cholesteric phase in the range of 61 to 54 C and a smectic phase in the range of 54 to 14 C in the course of cooling. A ferroelectric chiral smectic liquid crystal having an optically active group of the formula A or B has an excellent threshold characteristic in response to an electric field applied thereto, when used in a display device as proposed by N.A. Clark et al, so that it can provide a display device, which can be driven by a simple matrix electrode and can provide good contrast while preventing occurrence of crosstalk. This characteristic can also be attained by a liquid crystal composition containing a mesomorphic compound according to the present invention. Thus, the mesomorphic compound is particularly effective to provide a ferroelectric chiral smectic liquid crystal for use in a fine image and large screen display device. When a device is constituted by using these materials, the device may be supported with a block of copper, etc., in which a heater is embedded in order to realize a temperature condition where the liquid crystal composition assumes a desired chiral smectic phase. Referring to Figure 4, there is schematically shown an example of a ferroelectric liquid crystal cell for explanation of the operation thereof. Reference numerals 11a and 11b denote base plates glass plates on which a transparent electrode of, e.g., The liquid crystal layer in the liquid crystal device of the present invention may be rendered sufficiently thin in thickness e.g., less than 10 µ . As the thickness of the liquid crystal layer is decreased, the helical structure of the liquid crystal molecules is loosened even in the absence of an electric field whereby the dipole moment assumes either of the two states, i.e., Pa in an upper direction 24a or Pb in a lower direction 24b as shown in Figure 5. When electric field Ea or Eb higher than a certain threshold level and different from each other in polarity as shown in Figure 5 is applied to a cell having the above mentioned characteristics, the dipole moment is directed either in the upper direction 24a or in the lower direction 24b depending on the ventor of the electric field Ea or Eb. In correspondence with this, the liquid crystal molecules are oriented to either a first stable state 23a or a second stable state 23b. When the above mentioned ferroelectric liquid crystal is used as an optical modulation element, it is possible to obtain two advantages as briefly touched on hereinbefore. First is that the response speed is quite fast. Second is that the orientation of the liquid crystal shows bistability. The second advantage will be further explained, e.g., with reference to Figure 5. When the electric field Ea is applied to the liquid crystal molecules, they are oriented to the first stable state 23a. This state is kept stable even if the electric field is removed. On the other hand, when the electric field Eb of which direction is opposite to that of the electric field Ea is applied thereto, the liquid crystal molecules are oriented to the second stable state 23b, whereby the directions of molecules are changed. This state is similarly kept stable even if the electric field is removed. Further, as long as the magnitude of the electric field Ea or Eb being applied is not above a certain threshold value, the liquid crystal molecules are placed in the respective orientation states. In order to effectively realize high response speed and bistability, it is preferable that the thickness of the cell is as thin as possible. The most serious problem encountered in forming a device using such a ferroelectric liquid crystal has been, as briefly mentioned hereinbefore, that it is difficult to form a cell having a highly uniform monodomain wherein liquid crystal layers having a chiral smectic phase such as SmC Figures 6A and 6B illustrate an example of the liquid crystal device according to the present invention. Figure 6A is a plan view of the example and Figure 6B is a sectional view taken along the line A A in Figure 6A. A cell structure 100 shown in Figure 6 comprises a pair of base plates 101a and 101b made of glass plates or plastic plates which are held with a predetermined gap with spacers 104 and sealed with an adhesive 106 to form a cell structure. On the base plate 101a is further formed an electrode group e.g., an electrode group for applying scanning voltages of a matrix electrode structure comprising a plurality of transparent electrodes 102a in a predetermined pattern, e.g., of a stripe pattern. On the base plate 101b is formed another electrode group e.g., an electrode group for applying signal voltages of the matrix electrode structure comprising a plurality of transparent electrodes 102b crossing the transparent electrodes 102a. On the base plate 101b provided with such transparent electrodes 102b may be further formed an orientation controlling film 105 composed of an inorganic insulating material such as silicon monoxide, silicon dioxide, aluminum oxide, zirconia, magnesium fluoride, cerium oxide, cerium fluoride, silicon nitride, silicon carbide, and boron nitride, or an organic insulating material such as polyvinyl alcohol, polyimide, polyamide imide, polyester imide, polyparaxylylene, polyester, polycarbonate, polyvinyl acetal, polyvinyl chloride, polyamide, polystyrene, cellulose resin, melamine resin, urea resin and acrylic resin. The orientation controlling film 105 may be formed by first forming a film of an inorganic insulating material or an organic insulating material as described above and then rubbing the surface thereof in one direction with velvet, cloth, paper, etc. In another preferred embodiment according to the present invention, the orientation controlling film 105 may be formed as a film of an inorganic insulating material such as SiO or SiO₂ on the base plate 101a by the oblique or tilt vapor deposition. In an apparatus shown in Figure 8, a bell jar 501 is placed on an insulating base plate 503 provided with a suction hole 505 and the bell jar 501 is made vacuum by operating a vacuum pump not shown connected the suction hole 505. A crucible 507 made of tungsten or molybdenum is places inside and at the bottom of the bell jar 501. In the crucible 507 is placed several grams of a crystal 508 such as SiO, First, the bell jar 501 is evacuated to a vacuum of about 10 ⁵ mmHg while the switch 504 is open. Then the switch 504 is closed to supply a power while adjusting an output of the power source 506 until the crucible is heated to an incandescent state of an appropriate temperature for evaporating the crystal 508. About 100 amps. of current is required for giving an appropriate temperature range 700 1000 C . The crystal 508 is then evaporated off to form an upward molecular stream denoted by S in the figure. The stream S is incident on the base plate 502 with an angle thereto of ϑ to coat the base plate 502. The angle ϑ is the above mentioned incident angle and the direction of the stream S is the oblique or tilt vapor deposition direction . The thickness of the film is determined based on the calibration of the thickness with respect to the operation time which is effected prior to the introduction of the base plate 502 into the bell jar 501. After an appropriate thickness of the film is formed, a power supply from the source 506 is decreased, the switch 504 is opened, and the bell jar 501 and the interior thereof are cooled. Then, the pressure in the bell jar is raised to atmospheric pressure and the base plate 502 is taken out from the bell jar 501. In still another embodiment, the orientation controlling film 105 may be formed by first forming a uniform film of the above mentioned inorganic or organic insulating material on, i.e., in contact with or above, the base plate 101a and then subjecting the surface of the film to the oblique or tilt etching to provide the surface with an orientation controlling effect. It is preferred that the orientation controlling film 105 is also caused to function as an insulating film. For this purpose, the orientation controlling film may preferably have a thickness in the range of 100A to 1 µ, especially 500A to 5000 A . The insulating film also has a function of preventing the occurrence of an electric current which is generally caused due to minor quantities of impurities contained in the liquid crystal layer 103, whereby deterioration of the liquid crystal material is prevented even on repeated operations. In the liquid crystal device according to the present invention, it is possible to form an orientation controlling film similar to the orientation controlling film 105 also on the other base plate 101a. In the cell structure shown in Figure 6, the liquid crystal layer 103 may be formed into a chiral smectic phase such as SmC , SmH , SmI , SmJ , SmG or SmF As an important feature of the present invention, the liquid crystal material as described above may be formed into a monodomain of smectic phase. More specifically, the liquid crystal material, particularly a liquid crystal composition, may be composed so as to cause a successive phase transition of isotropic phase cholesteric phase SmA chiral smectic phase, isotropic phase cholesteric phase chiral smectic phase or isotropic phase SmA chiral smectic phase. Figure 7 shows another embodiment of the liquid crystal device according to the present invention. In the liquid crystal device shown in Figure 7, a plurality of spacer members 203 are disposed between a pair of base plates 101a and 101b. The spacer members 203 can be provided, for example, by forming a film of an inorganic compound such as SiO, Such a cell structure 100 having base plates 101a and 101b as shown in Figure 6 or Figure 7 is sandwiched between a pair of polarizers 107 and 108 arranged in the form of cross nicols to form an optical modulation device causing optical modulation when a voltage is applied between electrodes 102a and 102b. Next, an example of a memory type line by line writing driving method using a ferroelectric liquid crystal is explained with reference to Figures 9 11. Referring to Figure 9, there is schematically shown an example of a cell 31 having a matrix electrode arrangement in which a ferroelectric liquid crystal material not shown is interposed between a pair of groups of electrodes oppositely spaced from each other. Reference numerals 32 and 33 respectively denote a group of scanning electrodes to which scanning signals are applied and a group of signal electrodes to which information signals are applied. Referring to Figures 10A and 10B, there are respectively shown electric signals applied to a selected scanning electrode S₁ and electric signals applied to the other scanning electrodes non selected scanning electrodes S On the other hand, the other scanning electrodes S On the other hand, as shown in Figures 11C and 11D, the voltage applied to all the picture elements on the non selected scanning lines is V or V, each not exceeding the threshold level. Accordingly, the ferroelectric liquid crystal molecules electrically connected to the respective picture elements on the non selected scanning lines are placed in the orientations corresponding to signal states produced when they have been last scanned without change in orientation. Namely, when a certain scanning electrode is selected, signals corresponding to one line are written and thus writing of signals corresponding to one frame is completed. The signal state of each picture element can be maintained until the line is subsequently selected. Accordingly, even if the number of scanning lines increases, the duty ratio does not substantially change, resulting in no possibility of lowering in contrast, occurrence of crosstalk, etc. Then, a possible problem which can occur when a device as described above is actually driven as a display device, is considered. Referring to Figure 9, it is assumed that, among the picture elements formed at intersections of the scanning electrodes S₁ S₅ ... and the signal electrodes I₁ I₅, the picture elements with hatching are in the bright state and picture elements drawn in white are in the dark state. When display states on a signal electrode I₁ in Figure 9 are noted, a picture element A on a scanning electrode S₁ is in the bright state, and the other picture elements B are all in the dark state. As a driving mode for obtaining such a display plate, Figure 12 shows an example of the scanning signals, an information signal applied to a signal electrode I₁ and a voltage applied to the picture element A in time series. In the driving mode shown in Figure 12, when a scanning electrode S₁ is scanned, a voltage of 3V exceeding the threshold voltage V Some examples of preparation of the liquid crystal device will now be explained. On a square glass base plate were formed ITO Indium Tin Oxide electrode films in the form of stripes with a width of 62.5 µm at a pitch of 100 µm. In an apparatus for the oblique vapor deposition as shown in Figure 8, the base plate was disposed with its face having the ITO film being directed downward and a crystal of On the other hand, on a similar glass plate provided with stripe form ITO electrode films was applied a polyimide forming solution PIQ produced by Hitachi Kasei Kogyo K.K. Non volatile content 14.5 wt. by means of a spinner coater, which was then heated at 120 C for 30 minutes to form a film of 800A in thickness B electrode plate . Then, a heat setting epoxy adhesive was applied to the periphery of the A electrode plate except for the portion forming an injection port by screen printing process. The A electrode plate and the B electrode plate were superposed with each other so that their stripe pattern electrodes crossed each other with right angles and secured to each other with a polyimide spacer while leaving the gap of 2 µ therebetween, thereby to form a cell blank cell . A liquid crystal composition A as shown below was heated into isotropic phase and injected through the injection port of the above prepared cell, and the injection port was sealed. The liquid crystal cell thus formed was gradually cooled at a rate of 0.5 C hr and was observed through a microscope while being sandwiched between a pair of polarizers arranged in a cross nicol relationship, whereby a monodomain of SmC On two square glass plates each provided with stripe form ITO electrode films as used in Example 1 was respectively applied a polyimide forming solution the same as the one used in Example 1 by means of a spinner coater, which was then heated at 120 C for 30 minutes, at 200 C for 60 minutes and at 350 C for 30 minutes to form a film of 800A in thickness. The polyimide films on the thus obtained two electrode plates were respectively subjected to rubbing treatment with velvet in one direction so that, when the two electrodes plates were superposed each other, their rubbing directions are parallel with each other and their stripe form ITO electrodes cross each other at right angles. Then, a heat setting epoxy adhesive was applied to the periphery of one electrode plate except for the portion forming an injection port by screen printing process, the other electrode plate was superposed thereon in the arrangement described above, and the two electrode plates were secured to each other with a polyimide spacer while leaving the gap of 2 µ therebetween. Into the thus prepared cell was injected the above described liquid composition A and the injection port was sealed. The liquid crystal cell thus formed was gradually cooled and was observed through a microscope while being sandwiched between a pair of polarizers arranged in a cross nicol relationship, whereby a monodomain of SmC Ferroelectric liquid crystal devices were prepared in the same manner as in Example 36 except that the liquid crystal composition A was replaced by the following liquid crystal composition B Example 37 and liquid crystal composition C Example 38 , respectively. When these ferroelectric liquid crystal devices were observed through a polarization microscope, a monodomain of non spiral structure free of orientation defects was respectively confirmed to be formed. Into a cell prepared in the same manner as in Example 35 was injected the following liquid crystal composition in isotropic phase. After sealing, the thus prepared cell was gradually cooled, whereby a monodomain of SmC Into a cell prepared in the same manner as in Example 35 was injected the following liquid crystal composition E in isotropic phase. After sealing, the thus prepared cell was gradually cooled, whereby a monodomain of SmC Into a cell prepared in the same manner as in Example 35 was injected the following liquid crystal composition F in isotropic phase. After sealing, the thus prepared cell was gradually cooled, whereby a monodomain of SmC Into a cell prepared in the same manner as in Example 35 was injected the following liquid crystal composition G in isotropic phase. After sealing, the thus prepared cell was gradually cooled, whereby a monodomain of SmC Into a cell prepared in the same manner as in Example 36 was injected the liquid crystal composition G used in Example 42 in isotropic phase. After sealing, the thus prepared cell was gradually cooled, whereby a monodomain of SmC Ferroelectric liquid crystal devices were prepared in the same manner as in Example 36 except that the liquid crystal composition A was replaced by the following liquid crystal composition H Example 44 and liquid crystal composition I Example 45 . When these ferroelectric liquid crystal devices were observed through a polarization microscope, a monodomain of non spiral structure free of orientation defects was respectively confirmed to be formed. On two electrode plates with stripe form electrodes designed to cross each other to form opposite matrix electrodes, a 5 wt. solution of a polyamic acid resin reaction product of pyromellitic anhydride and 4,4 diaminodiphenyl ether in N methylpyrrolidone was applied and heated to 250 C to cause ring closure reaction to form a 100 A thick polyimide film. The polyimide films on the two electrode were respectively rubbed in one direction, and the electrode plates were fixed to each other so that their rubbed directions were in parallel with each other to form a cell. Then, a liquid crystal composition J shown below in isotropic phase was injected into the above cell by vacuum injection method. After sealing, the cell was gradually cooled at a rate of 0.5 C hr to prepare a liquid crystal cell of SmC A polarizer and an analyzer were disposed on both sides of the liquid crystal cell in a cross nicol relationship, and signals having waveforms as shown in Figures 10 and 11 were applied to the matrix electrodes. The scanning signal was an alternating waveform of 8 volts and 8 volts as shown in Figure 10A, the writing signals were 4 volts and 4 volts, respectively, the writing pulse duration was 500 µsec., and the one frame period was 30 msec. As a result of the memory drive type line by line writing operation as described hereinbefore under these conditions, this liquid crystal device provided a normal motion picture display without causing reversal of written states. Liquid crystal devices were prepared in the same manner as in Example 46 except that the liquid crystal composition J was replaced by liquid crystal compositions K Example 47 , L Example 48 and M Example 49 , respectively, shown below. The liquid crystal devices were respectively used for motion picture display as explained in Example 46, whereby no reversal phenomenon was observed in any of the pictures. Comparative liquid crystal compositions J Comparative Example 1 and L Comparative Example 2 were prepared by omitting the compounds having an optically active group represented by the formula A from the liquid crystal compositions J and L used in Examples 46 and 48, respectively. Liquid crystal devices were respectively prepared by using these comparative examples and driven in the same manner as described above, whereas normal motion pictures could not be formed because reversal phenomena occurred. Liquid crystal devices were prepared in the same manner as in Example 46 except that the liquid crystal composition J was replaced by the liquid crystal compositions N Example 50 , O Example 51 , P Example 52 and Q Example 53 , respectively, shown below. The liquid crystal devices were respectively used for motion picture display as explained in Example 46, whereby no reversal phenomenon was observed in any of the pictures. Comparative liquid crystal compositions P Comparative Example 3 and Q Comparative Example 4 were prepared by omitting the compounds having an optically active group represented by the formula B from the liquid crystal compositions P and Q used in Examples 52 and 53, respectively. Liquid crystal devices were respectively prepared by using these comparative examples and driven in the same manner as described above, whereas normal motion pictures could not be formed because reversal phenomena occurred. As described hereinabove, the lactic acid derivative according to the present invention can be combined with an intermediate of a functional material having an appropriate intermolecular force and shape without imparing an optical activity and allows arbitrary molecular design. Further, a particular class of the lactic acid derivative according to the present invention can vary the length of the alkyl group therein and, because of this feature, is capable of controlling the kind of and the temperature range for a liquid crystal phase in its mesomorphic state, whereby an excellent liquid crystal composition can be provided. The lactic acid derivative according to the present invention is also capable of readily controlling the hydrophobic group and is effective for producing an accumulated film of single molecular layers according to the LB film process. Further, the present invention provides a smectic phase free of orientation defects by using the above mentioned specific class of mesomorphic compound, particularly a ferroelectric liquid crystal phase of non spiral structure free of orientation defects. Further, the ferroelectric liquid crystal device according to the present invention has an advantageous feature that a reversal phenomenon which has occurred when switching or display is performed by a timesharing driving method of the memory driving type can be effectively prevented by using a mesomorphic compound having an optically active group as described above or a liquid crystal composition containing the same.