# High precision weighing machine using strain gauges.

## Abstract
A high precision weighing machine using strain gauges 37 wherein a load Q generates bending moments M straining a pair of horizontal parallel beams 57,77,125 . Each beam end 25 is shaped so that points X

## Claims
1. A dynamometer machine for detecting the magnitude of a load Q applied thereto and including a frame 21 a platform 17 adapted to receive said load within a useful range of values a pair of longitudinally elongated beams 19, 57, 77, 125 , each beam having a pair of end portions 25 and coupler means 23, 23 for transmitting transverse forces FQ, FR dependent on the load, from said platform and said frame to each beam end portion, thereby applying bending moments Mx to each beam each of said beams characterized by further having a rigid portion 63, 83, 135 141 spanning most of the length of the beam between both end portions except for at least one short flexible portion 75, 85, 87, 137 symmetrically located about a transversal middle plane XO equidistant from said end portions, and detector means 37 coupled to said flexible portion for measuring a parameter MO related to the bending moment thereat to derive the magnitude of said load.

## Description
The present invention relates to dynamometer machines and particularly to improvements in automatic weighing machines, wherein a heavy load to be weighed is placed on a platform of the weighing machine, and a weight indication or read out independent of the load s relative position thereon may be obtained. The present invention particularly relates to automatic weighing machines, i.e. those of the dynamometer type giving a read out automatically upon a load being placed on their platform. The type of weighing machine referred to herein, generally comprises a pair of side by side symmetrical beams lodged between a frame and a tray or platform, the latter being adapted to receive and support different weight loads. The beams are held in place at each end portion thereof by pairs of essentially vertical coupling members connected to transverse load the beam at each end portion in response to a weight load on the platform which pairs of coupling members comprise, connected to each end portion of each beam, one member supporting the platform to transmit a load force, and another member similarly resting on the frame to transmit a reactive force dependent on load parameters. These load parameters are weight magnitude and eccentricity the latter is defined as the position of the load in relation to the platform. The transverse loading of the beams creates bending moments at a middle portion thereof due to the longitudinal offset between the respective coupling points where the coupling members apply the load and the reactive forces to each end portion of the beams. In particular, the present invention relates to the beams, to the deflection thereof under load, and to avoiding friction during beam movement. An accurate weight read out may be obtained regardless of the relative position of the load on the platform of a weighing machine, i.e. even when the eccentricity of the point of application of the resultant force applied by the load on the platform is great. U.S. patents N In these types of weighing machines, the transfer function relating the weight of the load with the bending moment at the middle of each beam depends on geometrical factors which are generally assumed to be constant, such as the longitudinal component of the distance between the point supporting the platform and the point resting on the frame, at each end of the beam. In this sense, our cited Argentine patent N Another source of error arises from the effect of horizontal force components, which are disturbing because weight is an inherently vertical vector parameter. Thus, any bending moment components due to non vertical forces i.e. horizontal force components are evidently responsable for errors in the overall weight measurement. As explained more fully hereinafter, horizontal forces are originated by various sources a inclination of the forces transmitted by the coupling members to the beams, with respect to the transverse vertical plane b friction between the beams and the coupling members during flexure, because of relative longitudinal movement between these means and c elasticity of the coupling members as they yield under load. Due to the finite thickness of the beams and the variable deformation of the latter under differing load parameters, these horizontal forces are or become vertically offset and consequently contribute an error factor to the final bending moment at the middle of each beam. This is called the Bending Moment error . For all these reasons, the resolution of this type of prior art machine is generally limited to less than 1 1,000. Our Brazilian patent application N However in large weighing machines, the negative effects of the cited errors are still in evidence, because the deflection at the middle of longer elastic beams is proportionally greater under load and, hence, these errors are magnified. Furthermore, because elastic forces are prefered to friction forces, in view of that the latter are responsible for hysteresis, the weighing machines described in our cited Argentine and Brazilian references also feature coupling members designed to yield with beam flexure, rocking in a small arc as the beam middle moves vertically. When the loads are heavy, an engineering problem arises in addition to the one regarding excessive deflection of the beam middle as mentioned before with the coupling members linking the beams respectively to the machine s frame and platform. In particular, when vertical forces on the order of 200 kg or more are to be transmitted by the coupling members, the elastic coupling members shown in our cited Argentine and Brazilian references become inadequate. That is, the relatively simple procedure of cutting out the slots in their structure to provide the required low elasticity coefficient overweakens these members, resulting in that they cannot rock in a small arc before the point of maximum elasticity is surpassed and plastic deformation sets in, and, in practice, these members literally collapse. Consequently, thick rigid coupling members must be used in heavy duty weighing machine which, together with the at least partly flexible beams, bring the friction and resultant hysteresis affair back into consideration, partially defeating the purpose of the invention disclosed in our previously cited Brazilian reference when it is attempted to apply that invention as disclosed therein to larger weighing machines. According to a first main feature of the present invention, the beams are vertically rigidized, at least along a greater part of their length, to avoid excessive deflection thereof under heavy loads just leaving, for detection purposes, one or two relatively short flexible portions, symmetrically located with respect to the predefined invariant middle section of the beam. The strain gauges are operatively attached to the flexible portions, and electrically combined to output a signal indicative of the bending moment stressing the middle section. According to a second main feature of this invention, the beams are made elastic in the longitudinal direction. The desired effect of this novel idea is that the beam middle may deflect under load without longitudinally displacing the beam end portions graphically, when the middle portion curves either upwards or downwards, the beams stretch or contract longitudinally, resulting in that the beam end portions are not urged towards or away from each other because the real length of the beam is free to vary elastically. The immediate consequence of this degree of freedom of movement is that the longitudinal position of the beam end portions remain practically constant while the beam middle moves vertically, and thus it is not necessary for the coupling members to rock therewith to avoid the friction forces. Thus, simple rigid coupling members may be reliably used without producing these friction forces. Furthermore, the longitudinal elasticity absorbs the work of the undesired longitudinal forces, storing it as potential energy, before it stresses the beam. In a preferred embodiment, suitable for larger weighing machines, the beams are composite in structure, comprising a pair of longitudinally extending rigid members overlapping each other at the beam middle portion. Each rigid member integrally contains a respective beam end portion which may be a flat or V shaped end plate, preferably the latter. The two rigid members are interconnected by links which cause them to move integrally with each other in the vertical direction when subjected to vertical forces i. e. weight , but allowing freedom of relative movement in the horizontal longitudinal direction. This freedom of movement permits the pair of rigid members to slide along each other under the effect of horizontal forces, to absorb the work stored as elastic potential energy of the horizontal forces and avoid them generating detectable error strains in the beams. More importantly, this sliding motion between the pair of rigid members causes the effect of lengthening the beam when the curvature of the middle portion increases with deflection, to compensate for the two end portions keeping their original longitudinal position. Strain gauges are operatively attached at two sensing positions, located one on each end plate and equidistant from the invariant beam middle position, in a manner to provide an output signal independent of load eccentricity. In a preferred embodiment for small and intermediate size weighing machines, each compound beam structure comprises two end to end rigid members bridged by a flexible elongated middle plate. The latter carries the strain gauges which are located at the invariant beam middle position the middle plate is also separately coupled to both the rigid members by the links in a way that allows relative movement in the longitudinal direction while substantially integrating movement in the vertical direction. The beam end portions are fixed to a corresponding rigid member. Figure 1 is a tri dimensional schematic of a weighing machine viewed in perspective, of the type addressed by the present invention, shown with full lines when in an unloaded state, and in dashed lines when in a finite i. e. non zero state. Figure 2 is a longitudinal cross section in a vertical xz plane, of a prior art weighing machine, such as the Brazilian reference discloses, depicted in a state of finite load. Figure 3A is a schematic of a straight beam viewed in a longitudinal vertical plane, illustrating how horizontal forces may be transmitted by the coupling members. Figure 3B is a magnification of one of the coupling points of the beam of figure 3A, showing with more clarity the actual direction of a load force, and how the latter resolves to finite horizontal and vertical components. Figures 4A and 4B show how friction forces are generated in operation, to illustrate why hysteresis is originated due to their dependency on beam deflection direction. Figures 5A and 5B depict an end portion of a flat straight and of a V shaped types of beam respectively, illustrating the origin of the Bending Moment error, and how it decreases when the end portions are inclined as in figure 5B. Figures 6A and 6B schematically show, for the same types of beams depicted in figures 5A and 5B respectively, the beam end portion and its movement during beam deflection, showing the locus of a coupling point, to teach the origin of the Angle error, and how it is reduced in figure 6B. Figure 7 is a longitudinal cross section of a long beam, according to a particular embodiment of the present invention, incorporating said first main feature, i. e. vertical rigidness. Figure 8 shows a bending moment diagramme justifying the location of a strain gauge pair attached to the long beams of figure 7, away from the exact middle section. Figure 9 is a side view in the xz plane of one of the long beams of the present invention with its associated rigid coupling members, according to an embodiment of the present invention incorporating both said main features, i. e. a beam both vertically rigid and longitudinally elastic. Figures 10 and 11 are transversal cross sections taken through yz planes Figures 12A, 12B and 12C schematically illustrate in a rather exagerated but graphic manner, how the beam in figure 9 deforms longitudinally, to neutralize the effects of the horizontal forces. Figure 13 is a side view in the xz plane of one of the beams of the weighing machine, according yet to another embodiment of the present invention incorporating both said main features. Figure 14 is a longitudinal cross section taken through a split xy plane Figures 15A and 15B schematically illustrate in a rather exagerated but graphic manner, how the beam in figure 13 deforms longitudinally, to neutralize the effects of the horizontal forces. Making reference to figure 1 of the drawings, a weighing machine is shown schematically, including a platform or tray 17, which may move vertically from its unloaded position indicated by a reference symbol 17 O to a loaded position 17 Q . A force Q represents the weight or force exerted by a load at a coordinate point X The platform 17 is suitably coupled to a pair of horizontal beams 19A, 19B so as to apply four vertically downward forces F The coupling rest points X Cartesian coordinates are used in the present description to specify axis and directions as illustrated. The x axis extends in the longitudinal horizontal direction, the y axis in the transverse horizontal direction and the z axis in the transverse vertical direction, the x , y and z axes being mutually orthogonal. Consequently, Figure 2 is a vertical cross section taken along the longitudinal axis Each orifice 31 receives a pair of the coupling members 23 . Each upper member 23 B allows the platform 17 to rest on beam 19 and to transmit a force F There are also springs 43 connected between the frame 21 and the platform 17, to avoid the latter becoming accidentally separated from the rest of the machine and to keep the beams 19 in place. Before describing in detail the nature of the invention and the preferred embodiments for the beam structures 19 in fig. 1 according to the nature of the present invention, the factors that limit or downgrade precision of these types of weighing machines are now brought forward, also making reference to improvements shown in the Brazilian reference heretofore cited, in order to give a clearer picture of the state of the art starting with the nature of the interfering horizontal forces F This figure shows a magnification of the action of a force F on the beam 19 at coupling point X All the forces F, whether load forces F In the prior art, further contributions to the horizontal forces F Furthermore, the orientation of the horizontal friction forces F As it is necessary for the beams 19 to be elastic in the vertical z direction, the loaded beams will oscillate i.e. descend and ascend alternately , and succesively invert the direction of the friction forces F The coupling members 23 can be made sufficiently flexible to generate elastic displacements without the elastic beams 19 sliding along the coupling members 23 . In this case, the hysteresis disappears because, although horizontal forces F Figure 5A illustrates an end portion 25 of a horizontal beam vide, e. g., Argentine patent N Figure 5A shows load and reactive forces F The horizontal forces F If elasticity of the coupling members 23 is also taken into account, the bending moment component M The improvement on the Moment error M Furthermore, the V shape feature of the beam 19 shown in fig. 2 aligns the coupling points X Naturally, the moment error M The distorting variation of the load weight bending moment Q M For this reason, it is desirable, as shown in our cited Brazilian reference, for the end portions 25 to be longitudinally inclined, permanently bent into a V shaped profile, so that the edges 33, 35 of both orifices 31 of each beam 19 which connect with the coupling members 23 lie in a single horizontal plane Figure 6B shows the situation in the case of the beam with adequately inclined end portions 25 in the same way fig. 6A shows the horizontal end portion 25 situation. The coupling edges 33, 35 of beam end portion 25 are separated a segment of length The above expression 8 forms the principle by which the Angle error is eliminated to give a constant transfer function. Mathematically, using eq. 7 and substituting In any case, it is patently evident from figs. 6A and 6B that a a thus the instantaneous factor a a in the M Summarizing, the alignment of the application points X The present invention is particularly concerned with maintaining this alignment, bearing in mind that allowance must always be made for some misalignment, because beam deformation is essential for any strain measurement. It may easily be appreciated by simply looking again at figs. 5B and 6B, that longer beams, heavier loads and greater range of weight values increase the factors z The weighting machine of figure 2 gives good results with beams 19 up to 20 cm long. For longer beams, the measurement precision is masked by the excessive deflection of beams 19 over about 30 cm long. It may be appreciated that the excessive deflection of the middle X A further object of the present invention is to reduce the middle point deflection z In accordance with a first feature of the present invention, each beam 57 has a middle portion 61 considerably more rigid, at least along most of its length Thus, the denominator of the preceding equation 10 may be increased practically without limits, as the greater rigidness of the middle portion 61 increases the inertia moment I. In the prototype illustrated in figure 7, the moment of inertia I of the middle portion 63 was increased one hundredfold. Each profile 65 includes a flange 71 which may be either soldered to the faces 67, 69 of the beam 57, or else bolted or riveted thereto. Each profile 65 further includes a vertical web 73, which, being perpendicular to the beam 57, vertically rigidizes portion 63. Intermediate portions 75A, 75B comprising the two opposite most outer parts of the horizontal middle portion 61 abut longitudinally from the rigid portion 63, and are flexible to allow the strain gauges 37 to be operatively attached thereto. Preferably, two strain gauges 37 are used for each beam 57, one strain gauge 37A being fixed to the upper face 67 of one of the flexible parts 75A of the beam 57, whilst the second strain gauge 37B is fixed to the underface 69 of the opposite flexible part 75B, so that the first strain gauge 37A detects compressive strain and the other strain gauge 37B tensile strain. The strain gauge connecting areas X The moment M Consequently, weight Q may be measured by taking bending moments M As stated previously, it is impractical to use the elastic coupling members 23 for larger loads. To avoid the problems that the invention in the cited Brazilian reference attempts to overcome, the present invention suggests a novel compound structure for each beam, as shown in figure 9. The weighing machine comprises the tray or platform 17 and the frame 21 the platform 17 is adapted to eventually receive a load Q figure 1 within a desired weight range. A pair of compound beams 77 is lodged between the frame 21 and the platform 17 by two sets of four rigid coupling members 23A, 23B, each only two members 23 of each set and one beam 77 are visible in fig. 9 . The lower set comprises members 23A fixed to the frame 21, and the upper set members 23B fixed under the platform 17. The present invention is concerned with eliminating friction between beams 19, 77 and coupling members 23 which friction our cited Brazilian reference eliminates with elastic coupling members 23 fig. 2 such that kx µF. As this condition may not be met with rigid coupling members 23, the present invention incorporates the elasticity function of eq. 5 into the compound beams 77, to minimize friction without subjecting either the coupling members 23 or the beams 19, 77 to collapsation danger under heavier loads Q. Beam 77 is elongated in the direction of the longitudinal x axis and corresponds to one beam 19 schematically shown in fig. 1. It comprises two endplates 79A, 79B and a pair of interconnected rigid members 81A, 81B vertically spaced from each other the latter are comprised by two T section profiles 81 located one above the other and form a beam middle portion 83. On each endplate 79 there is defined an outer beam end portion 25A, 25B and an inner beam intermediate portion 75A, 75B flanking the middle portion 83 of each compound beam 77. Each end portion 25 features the orifice 31 with two opposite walls which define the pair of straight edges 33, 35 on the under and top side respectively of beam 77. Both edges 33, 35 are perpendicular to the x axis and are spaced apart from one another by an exact distance Two inclined faces 25, 85 and a third horizontal face 87 may be distinguished in each endplate 79, the two faces 25, 85 forming an open V at the outermost part thereof. The intermediate portion 75 is considered as comprising the innermost inclined face 85 and the horizontal face 87 and its most important feature is its flexibility which provides detectable strains according to the load Q. It should be understood that the V shapes 25, 85 are not indispensable for the compound beam feature, and, theoretically, the latter may be applied to flat planar beams such as those disclosed in U. S. patents 2,899,191 and 3,366,189 and in Argentine patent 216,822. In practice, however, it is desirable for the compound beam 77 to have V shaped ends 25, 85 for improved precision the compound feature providing longitudinal elasticity for neutralizing horizontal forces F Each profile 81 extends in the longitudinal x direction, and has a web 89 located in the vertical xz plane to strengthen the beam middle portion 83 and, thus reduce the deflection of the middle point X The profiles 81 are integrally secured, one to one, to the innermost face 87 of endplates 79, by bolts 91 screwed into flanges 93 of each profile 81. The same bolts 91 also clamp in place a horizontal bit 95 of one end of a thin link piece 97, sandwiching it between the two thicker members 87, 93. Each beam 77 of the weighing machine includes two articulated link pieces 97A, 97B, each formed from a steel plate bent into a zig zag, thus defining two fixing horizontal extreme bits 95, 99, a flexible vertical middle bit 101, and two internal alternate right angles Similarly, the link 97B connects the other end of the profile 81A with the integrated component formed by the other profile 81B and the endplate 79B, so that the profile 81A has approximately longitudinal freedom of movement in respect to its pair 81B and viceversa, due to that the thin vertical linkage faces 101 provide freedom of bulge to both links 79. Figure 10 assists in clarifying the arrangement of the links 97 and how they are connected to the rest of the compound beam 77 of the present invention. It is desirable that the neutral axis The pair of strain gauges 37 are attached to each beam 77 at the predefined intermediate portions 75 thereof, equidistant about the middle X Preferably, two strain gauges 37 are used for each beam 77, one strain gauge 37A being fixed to the upper face of one of the flexible parts 75A of the beam 77, whilst the second strain gauge 37B is fixed to the underface of the opposite flexible part 75B, so that the first strain gauge 37A detects compressive strain and the other strain gauge 37B tensile strain, as in the preceding embodiment shown in fig. 7. Likewise, the strain gauge connecting areas X Each orifice 31 receives a pair of the rigid coupling members 23. Each member 23B of the upper set allows the platform 17 to rest on beam 77 and to transmit a force F The member 23 includes two plate members 39, 41 joined to each other. The plate member 41 is a thick common plate made of SAE 1010 iron bent into an L shape to form a base portion 113 and a side portion 115. The base portion 113 is welded to either the frame 21 or platform 17 as the case may be. The member 39 is also a plate member, adapted to receive the side portion 115 of the L shaped member 41 in a transverse position. The shape of member 39 is adapted to penetrate orifice 31, and it defines a horizontal face 117 for contact with one coupling edge 33, 35 of orifice 31. The member 39 is made from SAE 1070 steel and is then tempered to ensure hardness. Edges 33 and 35 in fig. 9 respectively identify points X Its best advantages lie in its simplicity of construction, and in the fact that the distance When the weighing machine is loaded, the beam 77 is urged by load forces F Referring also to the schematical figs. 12A, 12B and 12C, the horizontal forces F Figure 12A, schematically shows the position of the members 81 and of the links 97 in an unloaded weighing machine, whilst figures 12B and 12C show a rather exaggerated for clarity sake resultant position when the horizontal forces F It should also be pondered that this embodiment allows longitudinal expansion and contraction of the beam when the weighing machine is loaded, eliminating an important contribution to the horizontal forces. The most noteworthy feature of this embodiment, is that the two principal members 79A 81A and 79B 81B may move independently of each other in the longitudinal x direction, and may only move together i.e. integrally in the vertical direction. In actual fact, from figures 12A, 12B and 12C it can be seen that there is a small relative movement in the vertical direction, however it has been found that this does not effect the weight measurement, because the links 97 completely transmit rather than absorb the bending moment M due to the vertical forces F The engineering problem mentioned hereinbefore page 5 arising with the coupling members is solved with the elastic compound beam structure 77, which structure may support far heavier loads Q without collapsing, as a result of the reducing effect of eq. 12 . This equation is the key that allows thin linkage plates 97 to be used where thin coupling member plates 41 cannot be successfully used, to specifically avoid the friction forces F A further embodiment of the present invention is described now with particularly reference to figures 13 and 14. These figures show a beam 125 for a weighing machine having the combination of extensible beams 125 and rigid couplers 23 adequate for smaller weighing machines in relation to the preceding embodiment, such as a weighing machine for loads of 15 Kg. and beam span of d 250 mm. For this smaller type of weighing machine, it is somewhat impracticable to simply redimension the structure of the beam illustrated in figure 9, because the T section profiles 81 that strengthen the beam middle portion 83 have each their web 89 standing in the vertical xz plane, resulting in an excessively tall weighing machine. On the other hand, the beam 125 illustrated in figures 13 and 14 is substantially flatter in the vertical direction The beam 125 in figure 13 may be considered as split into two congruent half beams formed by a pair of elongated plate members 129A, 129B connected by an elongated thin plate member 131 made of SAE 1070 steel. Each half beam 129 comprises a respective tongue plate 133A, 133B which abuts longitudinally outwards and which defines one respective end portion 25 for receiving the load and reactive forces F Unlike the preceding embodiments illustrated in figures 7 and 9, this embodiment of the beam 125 of the present invention suggests that the strain gauges 37A, 37B be located exactly across the middle plane X A pair of outer zones 139A, 139B flanking the middle zone 137 containing the strain gauges 37 may be defined on the plate 131. The plate 131 is most flexible at this middle zone 137, whilst its end zones 139 are made rigid against vertical forces by respective reinforcement plates 141A, 141B. The tongue plates 133 and the reinforcement plate 141 are made of SAE 1010 steel and are each 30 mm wide by 3 mm thick, sufficiently so to be substantially inflexible insofar the load magnitudes in consideration. The reinforcements 141 do not cover the middle zone 137 of the thin plate 51 where the strain gauges 37 are, and since the thickness of the thin plate 131 is only 1 mm, the flexibility of this middle zone 137 is substantially great which flexibility may be enhanced by a pair of recesses 143 cut out to reduce the effective width y The reinforced members 131, 141 are located above the inner portion 135 of the pair of tongue plates 133, and interconnected therewith by means of mobile links comprised by two sets of four strips 145A, 145B... 145H and four strip holders 147A, 147B, 147C, 147D. The strips 145 are arranged in pairs 145A 145H,...145D 145E forming the opposite sides rectangles 107A, 107B. The interconnection 145 147 allows only one degree of freedom of relative movement between the pair of tongue plates 133 and the thin sheet 131 and, fundamentally, between the two tongue plates 133A, 133B themselves, restricted to the longitudinal direction The interconnecting mechanism with longitudinal displacement includes the four strip holders 147 made of SAE 1010 steel, 1 mm thick and 40 mm wide, i.e., wider than the plates 133, 141 so that they abut width wise from the tongues 133 and the reinforcements 141 as may be clearly seen in figure 14. Furthermore, the plates 147 are bent into a longitudinal U shape having a long web 149 and relatively short flanges 151. Two of the plates 147A, 147B are arranged over the reinforcements 141 and the other two remaining plates 147C, 147D below the tongues 133, as is clearly illustrated in the figure 13. The lower strip holders 147C, 147D are fixed to the inner portion 135 of the bottom face of each tongue plate 133 by welded spots 153. In spite of that the upper strip holders 147A, 147B could also be spot welded to the upper face of the reinforcements 141, it is preferred to use screws 155 to integrate three pieces one upper strip holder 147, one reinforcement plate 141 and one outer zone 139 of the thin plate 131. This feature allows for the thin plate 131 with the strain gauges 37 to be assembled last during the assembly process of the beam 125, to facilitate efficient adjustment. The strips 145 are of SAE 1090 steel and are ½ mm thick only, to be very flexible. They are oriented in a vertical position in a plane transversal to the longitudinal axis The figure 15A is a schematic of the beam 125 in a state of nominal load, whilst the figure 15B is similar, but for a state near maximum load. Because the figure 15B corresponds to a state of greater flexure, it is necessary for the actual length of the beam 125 to increase so that the receiving edges 33, 35 maintain their vertical position X In the case schematically shown in the figure 15B, the longitudinal forces F Although the essential features of the invention have been brought out by means of a preferred embodiment, the invention is not limited to this embodiment and, on the contrary, extends to all alternative forms within the purview of the appended claims.