# METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR MEASURING LOAD BEARING CAPACITY OF TRAFFIC CARRYING SURFACES

## Claims
Verfahren zur Messung der Tragfähigkeit einer verkehrstragenden Oberfläche 16 durch kontinuierliches Transportieren einer Last P auf der besagten Oberfläche 16 , das die nachstehenden Schritte umfasst

## Description
The invention disclosed herein relates to a process and apparatus for measuring the load bearing capacity of traffic carrying surfaces such as roadways, runways, piers, terminals, and the like. The need to measure the load bearing capacity of traffic carrying surfaces arises in a variety of contexts. For example, there is a need to determine the load bearing capacity of newly constructed surfaces to determine whether they meet stated specifications. In addition, it is useful to be able to measure the load bearing capacity of a surface to determine whether reinforcement is required, as well as the extent to which the surface might be damaged when deciding whether to allow an especially heavy load to be transported over the surface. Also, the load bearing capacity of certain surfaces change with the weather and the seasons so that it is useful to be able to determine and post the maximum load capacity of the surface at various times and under various conditions. The expected life of a particular traffic carrying surface can also be estimated based on the maximum loads to be allowed thereon and the estimated frequency with which the surface will be subjected to such loads. It is also of interest to be able to quickly, accurately, and inexpensively discover weaknesses in a traffic carrying surface at an early stage so that they can be repaired promptly, and major re construction,with attendant higher costs, can be avoided. It is known that an estimate of the load bearing capacity of a surface can be obtained by examining the deformation of the surface when a known load is applied. The form and degree of the resulting depression or deformation are influenced by inhomogeneities in the surface material, vertical and lateral variations in the packing of the underlying layers, moisture conditions, proximity to the surface edge, and other factors which effect the maximum safe load bearing capacity. Generally, the maximum safe load bearing capacity varies inversely with the degree of surface deformation observed. Using modern mechanical measuring instruments, which can accurately measure surface deformation in the order of 0.1 0.2 millimeters, it has been found, for example, that even the very best roadways will exhibit deformation in the range of 0.1 millimeters near the point where the load contacts the surface. It is also known that the load bearing capacity of a particular surface is evidenced not only by the longitudinal deformation of the surface when under load but also by the lateral deformation thereof. For example, whereas a longitudinal funnel deformation is indicative of deep underlying damage, a broad, shallow, transverse deformation indicates shallower superficial damage. A proliferation of new highways, airports, shipping terminals, and the like, and a marked increase in the volume and weight of the traffic using these facilities have been observed over the past several decades. As a result, the ability to quickly, accurately, and efficiently measure the load bearing capacities of such surfaces with minimal interference in each of the contexts previously mentioned has become of significant importance. Previously, a number of attempts have been made, based on the measurement of surface deformation with a known load, to satisfy the need. However, for a variety of reasons, each of these attempts has produced less than satisfactory results. One approach includes dropping on angularly shaped pointed weight onto the surface being tested and determining the load bearing capacity from the resulting deformation of the road surface. This approach has been found unsatisfactory in that it is time consuming and requires the interruption of traffic flow on the portion of surface being tested. Another approach employs a slowly or intermittently advancing vehicle to carry a stamping device which periodically stamps the surface, after which the deformation thereof is measured. Again, this approach is time consuming, and in addition creates a traffic hazard due to the slow speed of the testing vehicle. Still another approach involves exposing the surface being tested to vibrations on a load from a stationary testing vehicle, and then measuring the depth and shape of the resulting depression. This approach likewise is time consuming. In addition, it can cause a certain amount of damage to the surface and is expensive. An additional problem common to approaches wherein surface deformation is measured in response to the application of a stationary or slowly moving load is that the measured deformation does not accurately reflect the true load bearing capacity of the surface at the load velocities to which it is likely to be subjected. Such approaches generally underestimate the true load bearing capacity of a surface because a stationary or slowly moving load produces a greater and longer lasting deformation of the surface than does the same load travelling at normal highway velocity, for example. An overview of these and other prior art approaches to measuring the load bearing capacity of traffic carrying surfaces is contained in the following documents Nielsen, US A 3,383,913 discloses a pavement deflection measuring device comprising a first carriage suspended beneath a vehicle and towed along with a second identical carriage. Each carriage has a front wheel, a center wheel and a rear wheel, all running in line. From a rigid frame the center wheel is suspended on each carriage. The suspension allows upward and downward motion of the center wheel and is equipped with a sensing device to produce indications of displacements of the center wheel with respect to the frame. The center wheel of the first carriage is placed between a pair of dual tires of the load bearing vehicle, or otherwise in very close proximity to the point of application of the load. The center wheel of the second carriage is five to twenty feet behind this load application point. This document discloses futher measurements of the elevation of the surface with respect to the frames both behind and in front of the load as well as means for determining the difference between the first and second measured values. This equipment is not arranged to allow measuring with high velocity since both center wheels easily will jump and bounce uncontrollably at flow traffic velocities. Measurements are taken only in one line and not in a pluarality of points transverse to the running direction. In contrast to previous approaches, measuring the load bearing capacity of traffic carrying surfaces according to the present invention has the objects and advantages of not causing damage to the surfaces, not interfering with the normal flow of traffic, generating a large number and density of measurements faster and more efficiently than previous approaches, and producing results that much more accurately reflect the true load bearing capacity of the surfaces measured. Further, one preferred embodiment of the present invention has the additional objects and advantages of measuring transverse elevational profiles to provide measuring vehicle independent surface depression values, and of obtaining data concerning lateral surface deformation to increase the accuracy of the determination of the load bearing capacity of surfaces. The above related objects and advantages of the present invention are achieved by providing a method and apparatus for measuring the load bearing capacity of traffic carrying surfaces in which a load is transported continuously along the surface to be measured. As the load proceeds, the elevation of the surface in front of the load is measured with respect to a reference elevation. Likewise, the elevation of the surface behind the load is measured with respect to a reference elevation. The difference between the measured elevation of the surface in front of and behind the load is then computed as a measure of the load bearing capacity of the surface. According to another aspect of the present invention, a method and apparatus are provided for transporting a load continuously along a surface to be measured. As the load proceeds, the transverse profile of the surface is measured at a selected number of points directly in front of and laterally of the load with respect to a reference elevation. The transverse profile of the surface is likewise measured at an equal number of corresponding points directly behind and laterally of the load with respect to a reference elevation. The difference between the two transverse profiles is determined as a measure of the load bearing capacity of the surface. An exemplary illustration of a presently preferred embodiment of the present invention is contained in the appended figures in which The novel features believed to be characteristic of the present invention are set out in the appended claims. The invention itself can be best understood by reference to the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the figures. In one presently preferred embodiment of the present invention illustrated in FIG. 1, a surface 16 is subjected to a known load in the form of a weighted trailer 10. The trailer 10 comprises a frame 11 supporting a box 12 loaded with a material 15 of known weight. The frame 11 has a hitch 20 for attachment to a pulling vehicle not shown . The frame 11 is mounted in conventional fashion to an axle which in turn is supported by one or more wheels 14. The wheels 14 bring the load into rolling contact with the surface 16 at one or more contact points 17. Of course, the locations of the contact points 17 vary continuously as the pulling vehicle pulls the loaded trailer 10 along the surface 16. In order to more accurately simulate actual conditions, and to obtain a more accurate determination of the load bearing capacity of the surface 16 being tested, it is preferred that the weight of the material 15 be within the range of weights to which the surface 16 can be expected to be subjected. Likewise, it is preferable to employ wheels 14 similar to those with which the surface 16 is expected to come into contact. Thus, for example, when testing an airport runway, airplane wheels carrying a load approximately equal in weight to a fully loaded Boeing 747 would preferably be used. In contrast, when measuring a highway, the use of standard truck tires carrying a weight in the same range as trucks actually using the highway is appropriate. In this preferred embodiment of the present invention, a first contactless distance measuring transducer 19 is mounted on the frame 11 directly in front of one or more of the wheels 14. A second contactless distance measuring transducer 18 is mounted on the frame 11 in line with the first transducer 19 directly behind one or more of the wheels 14. Laser cameras of the type commonly used by those skilled in the art to make such distance measurements are preferred as distance measuring transducers both because of the high rate at which they can sample the surface 16 and because of the accuracy of the samples they produce. In a presently preferred embodiment of the present invention, for example, it has been found that pulsing the laser cameras to provide a sampling rate in the range of 36 kilohertz produces distance samples accurate to approximately 0.1 0.2 millimeters. Other less preferred alternatives include ultrasound and Doppler radar transducers, for example. It is known that the surface deformation produced by a loaded rolling wheel is often funnel shaped with part of the deformation preceding the wheel. In practice it has been found that this deformation can precede the wheel 14 by a meter or more. The first contactless distance measuring transducer 19 is therefore preferably mounted sufficiently spaced from the wheel 14 to avoid measuring the elevation of the surface 16 in the depressed area preceding the wheel 14. It has been found that the point of maximum depression of the surface 16 behind the wheel 14 generally occurs approximately one decimeter behind the contact point 17. It is therefore preferable to choose a point of measurement 21 behind the wheel 14 as close as possible to that optimum location in order to obtain the best possible indicia of load bearing capacity. However, it has been found in practice that as the velocity of the load increases, the distance between the contact point 17 and the point of measurement 21 can also be increased somewhat. A problem with measuring the elevation of the surface 16 approximately one decimeter behind the contact point 17 is that the wheel 14 and axle of the trailer 10 tend to obstruct mounting of the second contactless distance measuring transducer 18 directly behind the contact point 17 and directly above the measuring point 21. To avoid this problem, it is preferable to mount the second contactless distance transducer 18 at a distance behind the wheel 14 and, as shown in FIG. 1, to direct it at a forward angle α to establish a line of measurement b to the measuring point 21 on the surface 16 directly behind the point of contact 17. In this arrangement, the second contactless distance measuring transducer 18 generates a distance signal of greater magnitude than if it were mounted directly above the measuring point 21. However, this is easily compensated, as illustrated in FIG. 1, by multiplying the resulting elevation signal by the cosine of the angle α. Since α is a constant, its cosine is also a constant and the perpendicular elevation value behind the wheel is defined simply as b cos α . In practice, it has been found suitable to mount the second contactless distance measuring transducer 18 about a decimeter behind the measuring point 21 with a forward angle of 10 30 degrees from vertical. In addition to the first and second contactless distance measuring transducers 18, 19, one or more contactless reference transducers not shown are also mounted on the frame 11 of trailer 10. The contactless reference transducers are preferably also laser camera transducers similar to the first and second distance measuring transducers 18, 19. Preferably also, a first and a second contactless reference transducer are mounted on the frame 11 laterally spaced from the wheels 14 with the first reference transducer being in front of the load and the second reference transducer being behind the load in line with the first reference transducer. With this arrangement, the depth of the depression in the surface 16 caused by the rolling loaded wheel 14 is determined as illustrated in FIG. 2. In front of the wheel 14, the surface 16 is not deformed. The first contactless reference transducer measures a first reference elevation r₁, and the first contactless distance measuring transducer 19 measures an elevation a. Behind the wheel 14, the second contactless reference transducer measures a second reference elevation r₂ and the second contactless distance measuring transducer 18 generates a compensated elevation value b cos α as described above. The total depression M of the surface 16 is expressed by the equation It is, of course, possible to use a single reference transducer in front of the load or elsewhere instead of one in front and one behind. In that case, since both elevation values are measured with respect to the same reference, they may be subtracted directly. The above equation then becomes It should be apparent to those skilled in the art that if both the first and second contactless distance measuring transducers 18, 19 sample the surface 16 simultaneously, they will measure the elevation of the same point on the surface 16 in a longitudinal direction before and after contact with the loaded wheel 14 only if the velocity of the trailer 10 is maintained perfectly constant. It should also be apparent that this is impracticable since at sampling rates in the tens of kilohertz even very slight velocity deviations result in different points being sampled, thus introducing inaccuracies into the computed depression value M. To overcome this problem, it is preferred to determine the velocity of the trailer 10 each time the first contactless distance transducer 19 samples the surface 16 and to delay sampling by the second contactless distance transducer 18 as a function of the measured velocity so that it samples the same point longitudinally on the surface 16 as the first contactless distance measuring transducer 19. The velocity of the trailer 10 is obtained preferably from a conventional electro optical wheel transducer. The wheel transducer not shown produces pulses at unit distances as the wheel 14 of the trailer 10 turns, or alternatively as a wheel of a pulling vehicle turns. The frequency of the pulses is related to the velocity of the load. A signal representative of the velocity is preferably obtained by inputting the pulse train into a conventional frequency to analog converter. The converter output signal in turn is used to program a conventional delay circuit. The amount of delay is calculated from the velocity and the fixed longitudinal distance between the first and second contactless distance transducers 18, 19. If the distance of separation is two 2 meters, and the velocity v The longitudinal position of the load is also preferably determined each time the surface is sampled by the first contactless distance measuring transducer 19. The longitudinal position is preferably obtained from the electro optical wheel transducer by counting the number of unit distance pulses produced thereby. A conventional computer of the type commonly used by those skilled in the art in many data acquisition and processing applications receives the signals generated by the reference transducers, by the first and second contactless distance measuring transducers 18, 19, and by the electro optical wheel transducer and frequency to analog converter. It is preferable for reasons of both cost and space conservation for the computer to be a board computer. The computer processes the received signals according to the equations described above. In addition it interfaces with conventional hard copy recording and or display equipment and off line storage such as chart recorders, video monitors, and magnetic disk or tape drives to display, record, and store the various corresponding reference, elevation, depression, distance, and velocity values for later analysis and processing. In a second presently preferred embodiment of the present invention, the first and second contactless distance measuring transducers 18, 19 are replaced by a first and second rack of such transducers. In this preferred embodiment, a transverse elevation profile of the surface 16 is measured before and after the load instead of individual elevations directly in front of and behind the wheels 14. As illustrated in FIG. 4, the trailer 10 can be replaced by a road vehicle 26 having a lightly loaded front axle and a heavily loaded rear axle. The first rack of transducers 23 is mounted to the frame 11 in front of the rear wheels 25 transversely to the direction of motion of the frame 11. The second rack of transducers 24 is mounted to the frame 11 behind the rear wheels 25 parallel and in line with the first rack 23. The spacing of the first and second racks in front of and behind the rear wheels 25 and the angular orientation of the distance transducers behind the rear wheels 25 correspond to the spacing and orientation described above with respect to the other presently preferred embodiment of the invention and illustrated in FIG. 1. The sampling delay between the transducers on the first and second racks 23, 24 is also as previously described. As illustrated in FIG. 3, the first and second racks 23, 24 each contain eleven 11 contactless distance measuring transducers mounted in identical positions. A first pair of such transducers denoted by the letter C is mounted directly in front of and behind a rear wheel 25. On one side of pair C are mounted transducer pairs I, II, III, and on the other transducer pairs I , II , III . The lateral spacing on each rack between each element of transducer pairs I, II, III, and C is 50 millimeters. The same is true of the lateral spacing on each rack between the elements of transducer pairs I , II , III , and C. At a lateral distance of 500 millimeters from transducer pair C on either side thereof are mounted transducer pairs IV and IV . The transducer pair V is mounted 700 millimeters to the left of transducer pair C, and the transducer pair VI is mounted one 1 meter to the left of the transducer pair C. Of course, this transducer arrangement or variations thereof may, if desired, be duplicated for each loaded wheel. It is preferred that the transducer pairs spaced furthest laterally from the loaded rear wheels 25 be used to establish reference elevations for the remaining transducer pairs. Thus, in this embodiment it is preferred that transducer pairs VI and IV establish reference elevations in front of and behind the load for transducer pairs I V and I III . It is also preferred that the vertical height of the outside transducer pairs VI and IV be adjustable so that the transducers of pair VI initially measure the same reference elevation in front of and behind the load and the transducers of pair IV likewise measure the same reference elevation in front of and behind the load. As further illustrated in FIG. 3 a transverse profile a consisting of the elevation values measured by the distance transducers in front of the loaded rear wheels 25 with respect to a straight line reference elevation r It has been found that error is introduced into the calculated transverse depression profile M if the first and second racks 23, 24 are not maintained horizontal to the surface 16 while it is being sampled. This can result, for example, from a damaged frame 11 which causes inclination of the road vehicle 26, or from shifting of the load. Likewise, error is introduced into the calculated depression profile M when the road vehicle 26 proceeds through a curve. In a curve, the outer front wheel 25a of the road vehicle 26 travels at a faster rate and over a greater distance than the inner front wheel. As a result, the path travelled by the first rack 23 is necessarily different than the path travelled by the second rack 24, and the contactless distance measuring transducer pairs on the first and second racks 23, 24 do not sample the same points on the surface 16. The points sampled by the contactless distance measuring transducers on the second rack 24 are laterally offset from the points sampled by the contactless distance measuring transducers on the first rack 23. The amount of the lateral offset depends on the sharpness of the turn made by the front wheels of the road vehicle 26. To compensate for these error producing situations, the vertical and lateral positions of the first and second racks 23, 24 are preferably adjustable via a conventional hydraulic control system, or alternatively, via a motor driven system. To compensate for inclination of the road vehicle 26, for instance, a conventional hydraulic lift can be positioned under each end of a rack. With the aid of an inclinometer, for example, the lifts can be raised or lowered to adjust the position of the rack to compensate for the error producing inclination. The lateral position of a rack can be similarly controlled by hydraulic lift. In this case, it is also preferable to include electro optical distance transducers on both front wheels 25a of the road vehicle 26, so that the number of distance pulses from each transducer can be compared, and the difference used as a control signal to the hydraulic lift to adjust the lateral position of the rack accordingly as the road vehicle 26 proceeds through a curve. In both preferred embodiments of the present invention it has been found beneficial to use laser points having diameters of approximately one centimeter to avoid the effects of stones, cracks, and the like on the surface being tested. Also, in both preferred embodiments, it has been found useful to have the computer calculate the mean of the elevational values produced by each reference and each distance transducer over every decimeter or other selected distance to also avoid the effects of stones, cracks, and the like as well as to provide data in a format useful in determining a prognosis of surface condition. Differences in the mean values and standard deviations of successive transverse profiles are especially useful in this regard since, as a general rule, the greater the difference, the worse the load bearing capacity of the surface. Finally, it has been found suitable to perform the measurements described herein with either preferred embodiment at a wide range of highway velocities up to approximately 70 km hour.