# Aminoalkylnaphtalene derivatives having pharmacological activities.

## Abstract
Compouiids of formula 1 The compounds I are endowed with interesting pharma cological properties, so as to make them useful in human therapy.

## Claims
CLAIMS for the Contracting States BE, CH, DE, FR, GB, IT, LI, LU, NL, SE 1. Compounds of formula IEMI10.1 wherein R represents a hydroxy or C1 C3 alkoxy group R1 represents a C1 C5 linear or branched alkyl group R2 is hydrogen, methyl or ethyl R3 and R4, which are the same or different, represent hydrogen or C1 C4 alkyl groups, or, taken toge ther with the nitrogen atom to which they are bound, form an optionally substituted pyrroli dine or piperidine group enantiomer and diastereoisomers thereof and salts thereof with pharmaceutically acceptable acids. 2. Compounds according to claim 1 wherein R1 is ethyl,R2, R3 and R4 are methyl. 3. Compounds according to claim 1 wherein R1 is t butyl, R2 is hydrogen, R3 and R4 are methyl. 4. A process for the preparation of compounds of formula I characterized in that compounds of formula IIEMI10.2 wherein R is a C1 C3 alkoxy group or a suitably protected hydroxy group, and X is a chlorine, bromine or iodine atom, are reacted with lithium alkyls in anhydrous aprotic solvents and then with aminoketones having formula IIIEMI11.1 wherein R1, R2 and R3 and R4 have the above defined meanings. 5. A process according to claim 4 characterized by using butyl lithium in anhydrous tetrahydrofuran as a solvent, at temperatures ranging from 30 to 500C. 6. Pharmaceutical compositions containing as the active principle at least one of the compounds of claims 1 3 in admixture with pharmaceutically acceptable excipients. 7. Pharmaceutical compositions according to claim 6 in form of tablets, capsules, syrups, granules, suspensions, solutions, suppositories, vials, bottles. CLAIMS for AT 1. Process for the preparation of compounds having formula IEMI12.1 wherein R represents a hydroxy or C1 C3 alkoxy group R1 represents a C1 C5 linear or branched alkyl group R2 is hydrogen, methyl or ethyl R3 and R4, which are the same or different, represent hydrogen or C1 C4 alkyl groups, or, taken together with the nitrogen atom to which they are bound, form an optionally substituted pyrrolidine or piperidine group enantiomer and diastereoisomers thereof and salts thereof with pharmaceutically acceptable acids, characterized in that compounds of formula IIEMI12.2 wherein R is a C1 C3 alkoxy group or a suitably protected hydroxy group, and X is a chlorine, bromine or iodine atom, are reacted with lithium alkyls in anhydrous aprotic solvents and then with aminoketones having formula III EMI13.1 5 wherein R1, R2 and R3 and R4 have the above defined mea nings. 2. A process according to claim 4 characterized by using butyl lithium in anhydrous tetrahydrofuran as a solvent, at temperatures ranging from 30 to 5O0C.

## Description
AMINOALKYLNAPHTALENE DERIVATIVES HAVING PHARMACOLOGICALACTIVITIES The present invention concerns aminoalkylnaphtalene derivatives having formula IEMI1.1 wherein R represents a hydroxy or C1 C3 alkoxy group R1 represents a C1 C linear or branched alkyl group R2 is hydrogen, methyl or ethyl R3 and R4, which are the same or different, represent hydrogen or C1 C4 alkyl groups, or, taken toge ther with the nitrogen atom to which they are bound, form an optionally substituted pyrroli dine or piperidine group enantiomer and diastereoisomers thereof and salts thereof with pharmaceutically acceptable acids. The term C1 C5 linear or branched alkyl group comprises, within the meaning thereof, methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, n butyl, sec butyl, ter butyl, pentyl, isopentyl groups etc. The compounds I, wherein R2 is different from hydrogen, have two distinct asymmetric centers and they are therefore in form of diastereoisomeric pairs, which are also comprised within the scope of the invention. The invention concerns, of course, both the single optically active isomers, and the racemic mixtures there of. Preferred compounds according to the invention are those wherein R is an alkoxy group, namely a methoxy, propoxy or isopropoxy group, R1 is methyl, ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl or t butyl, R2 is methyl or ethyl, R3 is methyl or t butyl and R4 is methyl or, when R3 is t butyl, hydrogen. Even more preferred compounds are those wherein R is methoxy, R1 is ethyl or t butyl, R2, R3 and R4 are methyl groups. Examples of compounds according to the invention are provided by 2 3 t butylamino 1,2 dimethyl 1 hydroxypropyl 6 me thoxy naphtalene 2 3 dimethylamino 1,2 dimethyl 1 hydroxypropyl 6 pro poxy naphtalene 2 3 t butylamino l,2 dimethyl l hydroxypropyl 6 pro poxy naphtalene 2 3 dimethylamino l, 2 dimethyl l hydroxypropyl 6 iso propoxy naphtalene 2 3 t butylamino l, 2 dimethyl l hydroxypropyl 6 iso propoxy naphtalene 2 3 t butylamino l propyl 2 methyl l hydroxypropyl 6 methoxy naphtalene 2 3 dimethylamino 1 propyl 2 methyl 1 hydroxypropyl 6 methoxy naphtalene 2 3 t butylamino l propyl 2 methyl l hydroxypropyl 6 propoxy naphtalene 2 3 dimethylamino 1 propyl 2 methyl 1 hydroxypropyl 6 propoxy naphtalene 2 3 dimethylamino 1 propyl 2 imethyl 1 1 hydroxypropyl 6 isopropoxy naphtalene 2 3 t butylamino l propyl 2 methyl 1 hydroxypropyl 6 isopropoxy naphtalene 2 3 t butylamino l isopropyl 2 methyl l hydroxypropyl 6 isopropoxy naphtalene 2 3 t butylarti ino l isopropyl 2 methyl l hydroxypropyl 6 methoxy naphtalene 2 3 dimethylamino 1 isopropyl 2 methyl 1 hydroxypro pyl 6 methoxy naphtalene 2 3 t butylamino l isopropyl 2 methyl l hydroxypropyl 6 propoxy naphtalene 2 3 dimethylamino 1 isopropyl 2 methyl 1 hydroxypro pyl 6 propoxy naphtalene 2 3 dimethylamino l isopropyl 2 methyl l hydroxypro pyl 6 isopropoxy naphtalene 2 3 t butylamino l isopropyl 2 methyl l hydroxypropyl 6 isopropoxy naphtalene 2 3 t butylamino l ethyl 2 methyl l hydroxypropyl 6 propoxy naphtalene 2 3 dimethylamino l ethyl 2 methyl l hydroxypropy 6 propoxy naphtalene 2 3 t butylamino l ethyl 2 methyl l hydroxypropyl 6 isopropoxy naphtalene 2 3 dimethylamino 1 ethyl 2 methyl 1 hydroxypropyl 6 isopropoxy naphtalene 2 3 diethylamino l ethyl 1 hydroxypropyl 6 methoxy naphtalene 2 3 dimethylamino l t butyl 1 hydroxypropyl inethoxy naphtalene 2 3 isopropylamino l ethyl 2 methyl l hydroxypropyl 6 hydroxy naphtalene. The compounds I and isomers and diastereoisomers thereof may be salified with non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable organic or inorganic acids such as, for instance, hydrochloric, hydrobromic, sulfuric, methansulphonic, formic, acetic, oxalic, malonic, succinic, tartaric, malic, fumaric, citric, lactic, glutamic, aspartic acid, etc. Further objects of the invention are provided by a process for the preparation of compounds I and by pharmaceutical compositions containing them as the active principle. The compounds I are endowed with a series of pharmacological properties which allow different therapeutic applications in human medicine. Namely, the compounds of the invention proved to be endowed, at different extents, with analgesic narcotic properties, H1 and H2 antihistaminic, antisecretory, H1 and H2 antiulcer, antiarrhythmic and anticholinergic activities.The compounds I turned out to be also able to inhibit the abstinence syndrome sustained by morphine and, generally, by other opioid alkaloids Finally, interactions with important enzymatic system, such as those controlling the prostaglandins biosynthesis or the enkephalins degradation, have also been noticed. The compounds of the invention or salts thereof may be therefore administered by the oral or parenteral route, in form of pharmaceutical compositions, in admixture with suitable carriers and excipients. One of the most important therapeutic indications is the treatment of drug addiction conditions, problem of increasing seriousness and diffusion. The compounds I are prepared according to the invention starting from naphtalenes of formula IIEMI5.1 wherein R is a C1 C3 alkoxy group, or a suitably protected hydroxy group, and X is a chlorine, bromine or iodine atom, which, after treatment with strong bases such as lithium alkyl, sodium or potassium amides, lithium diisopropylamide etc., are reacted with aminoketones of formula IIIEMI5.2 wherein R1, R2, R3 and R4 have the above defined meanings. The reaction between the compounds II and the strong bases are normally carried out with a slight stoichiometric excess of the latter in anhydrous solvents such as tetrahydrofuran, ethyl ether, petroleum ether etc., at temperatures ranging from 30 to 500C. The reaction with compounds III is carried out at the same temperature and in the same solvent. The compounds of formula I wherein R OH may be finally obtained from the corresponding alkoxy derivati ves, for instance by treatment with 48 HBr, or starting from a compound II having R1 representing a suitably protected hydroxy group. Examples of suitable protecting group comprise benzyl, tetrahydropyranyl, trityl, benzyloxycarbonyl, trifluoroacetyl group, etc. The protecting group cleavage is carried out by known methods, depending on the used group. The compounds I so obtained may then be optionally subjected to salification, separation of the diastereoisomeric pairs, optical resolution of the enantiomers, using conventional methods. The following examples further illustrate the invention without limiting in any way the scope thereof.EXAMPLE 1 0.1 M 27.3 g of 2 bromo 6 methoxynaphtalene were dissolved in 180 ml of anhydrous tetrahydrofuran at 50 , 0.135 m of butyl lithium corresponding to 85 ml of 1.6 M solution in hexane were added. After 10 minutes 0.1 m 14.1 g of l dimethylamino 2 methyl pentan 3 one, dissolved in 35 ml of anhydrous tetrahydrofuran, were added dropwise at room temperature. The reaction mixture was then added with 180 ml of ethyl ether and acidified with 280 ml of a 10 hydrochloric acid solution. The aqueous phase was separated, alkalinized with 36 NaOH and extracted with ether. The organic phase, separated and dried on sodium sulphate, was evaporated under vacuum. The oily residue spontaneously solidifies after several days it was then washed with petroleum ether and crystallized from hexane. Yield 56.95 . M.p. 87 890C. Elemental analysis C H N found 75.92 8.96 4.74 calc. 2 for C19H27N02 75.75 8.97 4.65. EXAMPLE 2 0.1 M 30.7 g of 2 bromo 6 hydroxy naphtalene dihydropyranylether were dissolved in 120 ml of anhydrous tetrahydrofuran 0.12 m of butyl lithium corresponding to 77 ml of a 1.6 M solution in hexane were added at 500C. After 30 minutes, 0.1 m 14.1 g of 1 dimethylamino 2methyl pentan 3 one in 30 ml of anhydrous tetrahydrofuran were added dropwise. After 30 hours the mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature and after 3 more hours the mixture was acidified with 250 ml of a 10 hydrochloric acid solution cleaving thereby the dihydropyranylether group . After 1 hour the product formed was filtered and crystallized from a 10 1 methanol isopropanol mixture.Elemental analysis C H N found 66.98 8.08 4.45 calc. 2 for C18H26C1N02 66.76 8.03 4.32. EXAMPLE 3 0.1 M 23.7 g of 2 bromo 6 methoxynaphtalene were dissolved in 180 ml of anhydrous tetrahydrofuran 0.135 m of butyl lithium corresponding to 85 ml of 1.6 M solution in hexane were added thereto. After 10 minutes, 0.1 m 14.1 g of l dimethylamino 4,4 dimethyl pentan 3 one in 35 ml of anhydrous tetrahydrofuran, keeping the temperatu re between 50 and 300C, were added dropwise. After 2 hours, the temperature was allowed to raise to room tempe rature the reaction mixture was diluted with 180 ml of ethyl ether and acidified with 280 ml of a 10 hydrochloric acid the aqueous phase was separated, alkalinized with conc.NaOH, extracted with ethyl ether and dried on Na2SO4 the solvent was evaporated under vacuum and the oily residue was chromatographed on silica gel eluent ethyl acetate. The obtained product was washed with hexane. M.p. 98 1000C. Yield 41.35 .Elemental analysis C H N found 76.50 9.44 4.51 calc. for C19H29NO2 76.19 9.21 4.44.PHARMACOLOGICAL TESTING The compounds of the previous examples have been pharmacologically tested. The compound of Example 2 turned out to be endowed with analgesic activity, with an ED in the hot plate 50 test of 5.6 1.51 mg kg i.p. in the mouse and with antiinflammatory activity in the paw oedema by carrageenin according to Randall Selitto, with an ED50 of 1.25 mg kg, always i.p., in the rat. Also the compound of Example 1 proved to be active in the hot plate test, with an ED50 of 13.5 mg kg and with a kind of activity partially reversible by naloxone. The compounds of Examples 1 and 3 finally proved to be active in inhibiting the enzymes responsible for the enkephalins hydrolysis with I.C. of 4.0 and 5.0 mM, respectively. Finally, the acute toxicity has been studied in the mouse, by i.p. administration the LD50 values are reported in the following table. TABLE ACUTE TOXICITY IN THE MOUSECompound ex. LD50 mg kg i.p. 1 65,8481 2,659 2 56,16 4,85 3 120,96 t 5,32. The present invention refers also to all the industrially applicable aspects connected with the use of compounds I as therapeutic agent. An essential aspect of the invention is therefore provided by pharmaceutical compositions containing predetermined and therapeutically effective amounts of at least one of compounds I or of salts thereof, in admixture with excipients conventionally used in pharmaceutical technique and optionally in combination with other active principles. Examples of said pharmaceutical compositions comprise tablets, sugar coated tablets, capsules, syrups, sachets, sterile solutions for intramuscular or intravenous injections, suppositories etc.