# Plant pot for use in substrate culture.

## Abstract
A plant pot 1 , for use in substrate culture, made of an anorganic material such as mineral wool, for cultivating plants, the pot having the form of a parallelpiped with a recess opening in the upper surface 2 for accomodating a seedling 3 , whereby the four sides adjoining the upper surface are covered with a layer 4 of material which is impermeable to liquid and light, wherein the underside 5 of the parallelepiped furthest from the top surface has alter nately raised and recessed portions 6 so promoting undis turbed transfer to and growth of the roots into the substrate during hydroculture, after the pot has been placed on the substrate, so shortening the total residence time for culture for several weeks.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. Plant pot, for use in substrate culture, of an anorganic material, such a mineral wool, for growing plants, the pot having the form of a parallelepiped, with a recess opening in the upper surface for accomodation of a seedling, whereby the four sides adjoining the upper surface are covered with a layer of material which is impermeable to water and light, characterized in that the underside furthest from the upper surface of the parallelepiped has raised and reces sed portions. 2. Plant pot according to claim 1, characterized in tnat the originally fiat underside has incisions, such that the incisions open in at least one of the four upright sides of the parallelepiped. 3. plant pot according to clam 2, characterized in that the incisions run parallel to one another. 4. Plant pot according to claims 2 or 3, characte rized in that the incisions cross one another. 5. Plant pot according to claim 1, characterized in that the underside is wavy, 6. Procedure for manufacturing a plant pot, accordins to claims 1 and 2, whereby the plant pot is cut as a parallelepiped from a sheet of inorganic material, and then is drilled into on one side in order to form a central cavity, characterized in that the pot is led with the side which lies opposite to the side which was drilled into along a mil lin apparatus, in order to form at least one incision.

## Description
Plant pot for use in substrate culture The invention relates to a plant pot, for use in substrate culture, made of an anorqanic material such as mineral wool, for cultivatin Dlants, the pot having the form of a parallelepiped wit a recess openinc in the upper surface for accomodating a seedling, whereby the four sides adjoining the upper surface are covere with a layer of material whi is impermeable to liquid and light. This kind of plant pot is uses, as a rule, for further development of a plant after germination, after which the plant pot with the developed plant is placed in its entirety or. a substrate such as minera wool fur further cultivation by means of hydroculture. In the intervening phase it is usual to place the plant pot loose o a stone ground, which has brought with it the disadvantage that the root development was not optimal. In order to counter that disadvantage, plant pots of this kind are tiaced on Perlite grains which are spread on the roun beforehand. However, the use of Perlite grains has preponderant disadvantages, namely from the pint of view of dust formation, while the relatively shar grains can damage the hands and knees of the nursery workers, thus demandins protective measures. The invention alms to provide a plant pot in which a optimal root development of the seeding can take place without the above mentioned Perlite grains or suchlike being necessary The plant pot according to the invention is distinguished in that the underside of the parallelepiped furthest fro the or surface has alternately raised and recessed portions. Because the minera woo plant pot comes to stand on the raised portions, a aoeduate ventilation is ensured to prevent rotting of the ro t Moreover, root growth is poss ble t the recessec portions, which promotes undisturbed transfer to and growth of the roots into the substrate during hydroculture, after the pot has been placed on the substrate, so snortening the total residence time for culture for several weeks. A plant pot of this kind offers, moreover, the advantage that Perlite grains are no loner necessary, which considerably simplifies the rowing technique, and saves energy costs relating to the machine for spreading thePerlite grains. According to theinvention there are various different embodiments possible. Thus the originally flat underside zan be provided with incisions, such that these incisions open in at least one of the sides of the parallelepiped. Alternatively it is possibie to make the underside wavy. The invention will now be further explained with reference to the description with figures, below, of a number of embodiment examples. In the drawings Fig. 11, b, Cr d and e show five different possible embodiments of the plant pot according to the invention, see.from the underside of the pot. Fig. 2 shows a perspective view from above Of plant pots situated next to one another on a flat grounc. The plant pot 1, in figure 1, has the form cf 2 parallelepiped and can have a rectangular or guadrangular shape, seen fro above. Tne top surface, see figure 2, is drilled into in such a way that there is a centrale opening, which nas 3 definite depth and which serves for the accomosa tio of a seedling 3. The upright sides adjoining the upper surface are covered with a layer 4, of waterproof material, which layer can consist of a foil of plastic material which s wound as a strip around the four upright sides. According to the invention, the underside is made with recessed and raised portions. These can be made with nelp of a milling cutter cr suchlike, suor. a way that rooves 6 result. By situating five milling cutters next to rnE another, when the pot is displace over the cutters five longitudinal grooves 6 are cut simultaneously. The cross sec tions of these grooves can be triangular, see figure la, rectanqular, see figure 1b, half round, see figure 1c, or arbi trarily any other shape. Figure id shows that the grooves can be cut in two directions resulting in a grid pattern. The grooves can hereby run parallel to the upright sides or, alternatively, at an angle to them, in order to increase the size of the air supply openings in the sides see figure le. It will be clearl apparent that by placing the pots 1 on a flat ground 7, the channels 6 on the underside of the pots ensure an adequate supply ot air to the underside, so that root rot is prevented and a healthy development of the root systen is permitted. The invention is not contined to the above mentioned embodiments.