# Process for introducing foreign DNA into genome of plants.

## Abstract
Process for introducing foreign DNA into the genome of plants by infecting plants or explantates thereof or plant protoplasts or by incubating plant protoplasts with Agrobac terium, in which Agrobacteria are used, which contain one or more T regions and a Vir region from the Ti plasmid of Agrobacterium in their genetic material and or one or more T regions comprising an artificial T region which consists of each DNA desired, flanked by border sequences as present in the wild type T region of Agrobacterium or sequences being functionally analogous thereto.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Process for introducing foreign DNA into the genome of plants by infecting plants or explanates thereof or plant próplasts or by incubating plant protoplasts with Algrobacterium, characterized in that Agrobacteria are used, which contain one or more T regions and a Vir region from the Ti plasmid of Agrobacterium in their genetic material and or one or more T regions comprising an artificial T region which consists of each DNA desired, flanked by border sequences as present in the wild typeT region of Agrobacterium or sequences being functionally analogous thereto. 2. Process according to claim 1, characterized in thatAgrobacteria are used, one or more T regions or a Virregion or both being introduced into the bacterial chromosome. 3. Agrobacteria with one or more T regions and a Virregion in their DNA s, characterized in that the T region or the Vir region or both have been introduced into the bacterial chromosome. 4. Process for obtaining Agrobacteria according to claim 3, with a T region in the bacterial chromosome, characterized in that in Escherichia coli bacteria with a T region in a vector DNA molecule, which has the property to integrate steadily in Agrobacterium choromosome, foreign DNA is introduced into the T DNA after which the thus modificated vector DNA molecule is removed from the E. coli bacteria and is integrated into the Agrobacterium chromosome. 5. Process according to claim 4, characterized in that the vector DNA molecule is a plasmid, which can not survive in Agrobacteria as such is a so called suicide plasmid but integrated though into the genome thereof and which after the modification is mobilized fromE. coli to Agrobacteria with the aid of plasmid derived from a R plasmid.

## Description
PROCESS FOR INTRODUCING FOREIGN DNA INTO THE GENOMEOF PLANTSThe T region of the Ti tumour inducing and Ri root inducing plasmide of Agrobacterium is transferred by nature to cells of exalted plants, where this DNA is introduced into the genome and is expressed. Transfer of the T region or any artificialT region also occurs when this region is present in the bacterium on a separate plasmid, next to a plasmid which contains the essential virulence genes on aVir region the so called binary vector system,Dutch patent application no. 83 00698, and also mentioned as a part in a Dutch patent application for genetic manipulation of monocotyles under no. 8401048 .The surprising, novel invention now described is based on an extension of the binary vector system, an intactT region or artificial T region being introduced into the chromosome of Agrobacterium as part of a transposon Tn 1882 and a Vir region being present on an auxiliary plasmid. The T region, introduced into the bacterial chromosome in this way appears to be transferred to the plant s cell efficiently, where it is integrated into the plant s genome and is expressed.This invention also records that the binary system could also be used if the Vir region is introduced into the bacterial chromosome and if the T region is present on a plasmid or if the Vir region and theT region have been introduced into the bacterial chromosome of Agrobacterium. With this new invention new procedures can be developed for genetic manipulation of dicotyle and monocotyle plant s cells. New possibilities for the incorporation of foreign DNA into the genome of dicotyle and monocotyle plant s cells a binary vector system that can be used in Agrobacterium, with which one of the components or both components are no longer present as loose replicon in the bacterium.The invention relates to improvements in Agrobacterium strains suitable for genetic manipulation of exalted plant s cells.A big plasmid Ti plasmid , present by nature in tumour provoking strains of Agrobacterium tumefaciens is responsible for tumour induction on dicotyle plants Van Larebeke et al., Nature London 252, 169 170 1974 Zaenen et al., F. Mol. Biol. 86, 109 127 1974 . A specific part of the Ti plasmid, calledT region, is transferred by the bacterium to the plant s cell and is integrated into the core DNA Chilton et al., Cell 11, 263 271 1977 .The integrated DNA is expressed Willmitzer et al.,Mol. Gen. Genet. 182, 255 262 1981 and this expression forms the molecular base of the plant disease Crown Gall. Resulting tumour cells, in contradistinction to normal plant s cells, can be grown on synthetic media without adding the plant s hormones auxine and cytokinine UBraum, Proc. Natl.Acad. Sci 44, 344 349 1958 . The tumour cells also contain specific compounds, called opines, which are not present in normal cells and the genetic information of which lies coded on the transferred T DNA Bomhoff et al., Mol. Gen. Genet. 145, 177 181 1976 Schröder et al., FEBS Lett. 129, 166 168 1981 .Besides the T region, which is found back in the plant s cell, the T plasmid contains a second region which is essential for the virulence qualities of the bacterium Omms et al., J. Bacteriol. 144, 82 91 1980 Garfinkel et al., J. Bacteriol. 144, 732 743 1980 . This region was never seen in tumour cells and genetic analyses have shown that mutations in this area leading to much weakened virulence or complete avirulence are intrans complementable by wild types of genes, which are present on clones orR Prime Plasmids Hille et al. Plasmid 7, 197 118 1982 Klee et al., J. Bacteriol. 150, 327 331 .Seven genetic loci are determined in this Vir Virulence region, called Vir A, B, C, D, E, F and G Klee et al., J. Bacteriol. 150, 327 331 1982 Hille et al., Plasmid 7, 107 118 1982 Hooykaas et al., in press 1984 .The Vir region and the T region can be physically separated from one another on two compatible plasmids without any negative effect on the capacity of agrobacteria to incorporate the T region or artificialT region into the plant s cell Hoekema et all, Nature London , 303, 179 180 1983 . A binary vector system based on this invention can be used for the genetic manipulation of plant s cells. Described in Dutch patent specification no. 83 00698 and European patent application no. 842002396, and in Dutch patent application 84 01048 .The result presented here shows that the presence of the components of the binary system on plasmids is no essential condition. The components T or Vir region can be integrated separately or both into the chromosome of Agrobacterium without any negative effect on the transfer of the T region or artificial T region to the plant s cell followed by integration into the plants genome. The invention does not only throw a vivid light on the molecular mechanism which enables the bacterium to transferDNA to the plant s cells. It also means a clear broadening of the possibilities for genetic manipulaticri of exalted plants which are offered by the binary system.Aiming at inserting the T region of the Ti plasmid at different locations into the genome Agrobacterium the transposon Tn 1882 on which the entire T region is present was constructed in vitro. Three restriction enzyme fragments which comprise the entire T region together, viz. EcoRI fragment 1ova, BamHI fragment 17a and KpnI fragment 9 were separately subcloned and used in a three stage cloning to construct the intact T region as described hereunder, in transposon Tn3 A 5 65 . This transposon used Kostriken et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci 78, 4041 4045 is a derivative of Tn3 into which anEcoRI site is introduced at a location which is not essential for transposition of the transposon or its ampicilline resistence.This transposon was further inserted into the E coli vector plasmid pTR262 Roberts et al., Gene 12, 123 127 1980 that even does not contain EcoRI site. In the unique EcoRI site of the resulting plasmid pRAL 3103 the EcoRi fragment 10a of pTiB6 was cloned. In the next stageBamHi fragment 17a, which partly overlaps withEcoRI fragment 1ova, was positioned in the naturalBamHI site position 13.774 according to Barker et al., Plant. Mol. Biol. 2, 335 350 1983 . For this purpose the Tn3 derived transposon with EcoRi fragment 19a was first transmitted to pRAL 3102, a plasmid from which the BamHI site was removed by means of in vitro deletion. To reach this plasmid pRAL 3102 was transformed to an E.coli strainWhere PAL 1155 R 772 Tn 1880 was present. The resulting strainwas used as a donor in a cross fertilization to an empty E.coli strain.Selection for mobilisation fo pRAL 3102 by pAL 1155 provided 2 types of transconjugants. The transconjugants in which Tn 1880 was leapt to pRAL 3102 were purified by isolating plasmid DNA and using this DNA again for transformation of an empty E.coli stray for the markers of pRAL 3102 and Tn 1880. Thus pRAL 3955 was obtained on which the transposon Tn 1880 is positioned. In the unique BamHi site of Tn 1880 on the plasmid 3955BamHI fragment 17a was cloned in the correct orientation. Vide figure 1 . Plasmid pRAL 3956 resulting therefron does now contain the T region genes 3, 6a, 6b and the right hand part of gene 4 as an uninterrupted piece of DNA present on a transposable element. Next, the KpnI fragment 9 was cloned in the correct orientatation and in the natural position position 9834 in the unique EpnI site of pRAL 3956 lastly.The plasmid pRAL 3957 thus obtained contains the transposon Tn 1882 which comprises the intactT region of the TiB6 plasmid.In order to check whether Tn 1882 indeed contained a functional T region Agrobacteriumstrainswere constructed which contained the virulence plasmid pAL 4404 and a plasmid compatible therewith on which Tn 1882 was positioned. Therefore, Tn 1882 was inserted into plasmid R772. Plasmid R772 was cross fertilized into an E.colistrainwhich contained pRAL 3957. Further cross fertilizating to an empty R strain with selection for transmission of the Ap of Tn 1882 results in 2 kinds of transconjugants. This can be explained from the indication that plasmidR772 with low frequence pRAL 3957 could have mobilised, the other markers of pRAL being present in the transconjugants as well, or Tn 1882 could have landed on R772 by transposition.The presence of the transposon R772 in one of the 2 kinds of transconjugants was established by gelelectroforese of plasmid DNA treated with restriction enzymes. The R772 plasmid with Tn 1882 thereon was called pAL 1157. Next the plasmid pAL 1157 was brought into LBA 4404 pAL 4404 through conjugation. The tumourigenous qualities of LBA 4404 Pal 4404, pLA 1157 appeared to be the same as those of the wild type A.tumefaciens strainLBA 1010 for all tested host plants. This result showed that transposon Tn 1882 comprised a normally functioning T region. For the insertion of Tn 1882 into the chromosome ofA.tumefaciens different methods have been used. A first method comprised the construction in E.coli of the plasmid pRAL 3958. This plasmid has been derived from pRK 2013, a conjugative plasmid which cannot replicate in A.tumefaciens. This means that in principle pRAL 3958 pRK 2013 Tn 1882 can.be used as suicide plasmid in A.tumefaciens, and thenTn 1882 can remain behind by transposition to the genome of the Agrobacterium strain, while pRAL 3958 itself gets lost. To reach this an E.coli stem with pRAL 3958 was used as a donor in a cross fertilization with A.tumefaciens stem LBA 288, which does not containTi plasmid.Although the resistence marker of Tn 1882 ApR is expressed very well in LBA 288 no transmission of the ApR marker was found. Conjugative transmission of pRAL 3958 within E.coli occurred with a frequency of 30 per recipient. The negative result found forAgrobacterium indicates that Tn 1882 does not or harly ever leap in the genome of A.tumefaciens. We avoided this problem by applying a genomic piece of DNA ofA.tumefaciens to a suicide donor plasmid for Tn 1882 first.The strategy comprised 3 stages vide figure 2 i A.tumefaciens genomic DNA, isolated from LBA 288, was cloned in the E.coli vector pACYC 184 ii in one of the clones, viz. pRAL 3305, Tn 1882 was introduced by means of transposition in E.coli iii the plasmid pRAL 3959 created this way can neither replicate in A.tumefaciens and can therefore be used for Tn 1882 in Aqrobacterium as suicide donor. Therefore pRAL 3959 was mobilised to LBA 288.Now the ApR of the Tn 1882 cannot only remain behind in Agrobacterium by possible transposition, but the entire plasmid can also come into the genome by homologous recombination over the cloned A.tumefaciens genomic DNA fragment. The mobilisation to LBA occurred with a frequency of 10 7 per recipient, while as a check mobilisation of this plasmid occurred within E.coli with a frequency of 10 4 per recipient. It appears from these results that pRAL 3959 can indeed not replicate in A.tumefaciens. One of the Agrobacterium transconjugants, LBA 1160, was analysed in detail in order to establish whether Tn 1882 has been introduced indeed into the chromosome of Agrobacterium.The piece of genomic DNA pRAL 3305 cloned fromAgrobacterium strainLBA 288 might namely have originated from the chromosome or from the cryptic plasmid pAt C58 which is present in LBA 288. Therefore, it is also possible that a possible recombination of pRAL 3959 in LBA 1160 could have occurred with the chromosome and the pAtC58.Strain LBA 1160 was genetically characterized i and ii and the DNA of the strain was analysed by means of Southern blot hybridisation iii in order to be able to distinguish between both possibilities i By random transposon mutagenese the cryptic plasmid pAtC58 was provided with a selectable marker. For this purpose the suicide plasmid pJB4JI was used as Tn 5 donor for LBA 288, as was described for mutagenese of Rhizobium leguminosarum Berlinger et al., Nature London , 276, 633 634 .By means of conjugation experiments it was proved that in a number of casesTn 5 was present in LBA 288 on a self transmissible plasmid. This plasmid appeared to be pAtC58 transmission frequency 10 per recipient . This newly found quality of pAtC58 to transmit itself was used to determine whether Tn 1882 was present inLBA 1160 on pAtC58. For this purpose LBA 1160 and LBA 1201 pAtC58 Tn5 were both used as donor strains in cross fertilizations with LBA 285 for mutual comparison. After selection on transconjugants pAtC58 Tn 5, as was expected, appeared to be transferred with a frequency of 10 7 per recipient. However, no transmission of the ApR of Tn 1882 could be shown. This indication formed a strong indication for the assumption that Tn 1882 was not present on the cryptic plasmid pAtC58 in the donor strain LBA 1160.ii Plasmids which cannot be maintained stably in one bacterium cell without selective pressure being exerted, belong to the same incompatibility class inc. . A fortiori are therefore plasmids which are incompatible with themselves. If a Tn 5 marked pAtC58 KmR is introduced into an A.tumefaciens sLrain with a Tn 1831 marked pAtC58 5per and the entering plasmid R KmR is selected on, this causes a loss of the Sp marker by incompatibility, which means removal of the plasmid already present, in the greatest part of the transconjugants. Therefore LBA 1160 is now used as recipient in a cross fertilization with LBA 1201 pAtC58 Tn 5 as donor. The entering plasmid R pAtC58 Tn 5 was selected Km on and in the transconjugants it was checked whether the ApR, originating from Tn 1882, was lost by incompability. RIt appeared that all Km transconjugants preserved their ApRI which was again a strong indication that Tn 1882 is not positioned on pAtC58 in LBA 1160. iii Definite proof for the location of Tn 1882 inLBA 1160 was obtained through Southern blot hybridisation experiments, with which raw plasmid preparations of LBA 288, LB 1201 and LBA 1160 were analysed. The raw plasmid preparations isolated according to Casse et al., J. Gen. Microbiol.113, 229 242 1979 were separated in their components on agarose gels. The components which were present in the gel as band, were transmitted direct from the gels into nitrocellulose filters the so called blot procedure and after that were hybridised with a number of specific radio active labeled DNA probes.A controle Tn 5 probed hybridised with the so called supercoil DNA band of pAtC58 Tn 5, and with the linear DNA band, in which besides desintegrated chromosomal DNA, desintegrated pAtC58 Tn 5 DNA of the blot is present as well. If Tn3, the starting material for Rn 1882 was used as radio active probe, no hybridisation with pAtC58, which is present inLBA 1160, was found.Therefore we concluded from the above that Tn 1882 and therefore the entire T region of pTi B6 is present in the chromosome of LBA 1160. Southern blot hybridisations, which were carried out with blots on which the total DNA of LBA 1160 was present, fragmented with a number of restriction enzymes and with which pRAL 3305 and pOTY 8 were used as labeled probes confirmed the correct internal organisation of the T region of the Tn 1882 insertion into LBA 1160. structure as drawn in figure 3 .The stability of the insertion of pRAL 3959 on whichTn 1882 is located, in the chromosome of LBA 1160 was examined by growing the bacteria about 100 generations without selection pressure and by checking whether the resistence markers of pRAL 3959 toe andApR were maintained. No loss of markers was detected.LBA 1160 therefore contains the T region, stably introduced into the chromosome. By testing the oncocenicity of the entirely new construction obtained by us the virulence functions Vir region , which are necessary as well, were introduced through R prime plasmids pAL 1818 and pAL 1819 into the strainLBA 1160. Plasmid pAL 1818 contains the vir genesA, B, C, D, and 0 and pAl 1819 contains the Vir genesA up to and including F and 0. After conjugation ofLBA 1160 withstrains which contain the R primes and selection of transconjugants LBA 1161 i.e. LBA 1160. pAL 1818 and LBA 1162 i.e. LBA 1160 pAL 1819 were created. These strains and the parent strains LBA 1160 and LBA 1818 pAL 1818 and LBA 1819 pAL 1819 were tested for their tumour inducing ability on a number of different kinds of plants.LBA 1160 and LBA 1818 and 1819 only contain one of the components of the binary system and therefore did not give cccasion to tumours. However, the LBA 1160 strains with a virulence plasmid the R primes mentioned did surprisingly cause tumours to be created on all tested plants. Behaviour and size of the tumours entirely correspond to those of tumours induced by wild type of Agrobacterium strains The T region of theTi plasmid can therefore be normally introduced from the chromosome of Agrobacterium by means of Vir region into the genome of the exalted plant s cell.The observations described are very important for learning to understand the mechanism with whichAgrobacterium transfers its T region to the plant s cell. The surprising invention that the T region is normally transferred, even if it is present in the chromosome of Agrobacterium, means that it is very improbable that the entire Ti plasmid is introduced into the plant s cell during the infection and is processed there on behalf of integration of T DNA, as was presumed before. Also on the ground of these results we postulate that recognition and excision of the T DNA by virulence genes takes place within the bacterium as one of the early stages in the tumour induction process. The so called border sequences, which border the T region, could act as recognition signals.Besides this fundamental scientific importance this new invention opens new perspectives for the genetic manipulation of exalted plant s cells. The novelty of this invention and its possibilities for use can best be elucidated by means of figure 4. A T region and the Vir region, which are separately present on 2 separate plasmids, are still able to transfer a T region or an artificial T region and foreign DNA inserted into this to the plant s cell, where it is integrated into the genome and is expressed. With the aid of this so called binary vector system dicotyle and monocotyle plant s cells can be provided with new genetic material figure 4a .Strains containing only theVir region or only a T region on a plasmid figure 4b or in the chromosome figure 4c do not cause plant s cells to transform.With the new invention it is proved that a T region, inserted into the chromosome, it still transferred normally to plant s cells in a binary system, a Vir region being present on a separate plasmid figure 4d . By this surprising invention it is also stated that if a T region or a Vir region or both components of Agrobacteria are not located on extrachromosomal replicons plasmids , but are inserted into the chromosome situations as drawn in figures 4D, E and F they do introduce a T region or artificial T region into the plant s genome in an efficient way, so that the claims as laid down inEuropean patent applications 84 2002396 and 8401048 can also be applied to these new situations. SuchAgrobacteria can be used for the genetic manipulation of dicotyle and monocotyle plant s cells. Dutch patent application 84 01048 . Used plasmids and bacterium stemsPLASMIDS RESISTENCE MARKERS SPECIFICATIONS SOURCE pOTY 8 Ap Hirsch pRAL 3101 CmKm pACYC 184 derivative containing unique KpnI site this publication pRAL 3102 Cm pACYC 184 sender BamHI site I. pRAL 3103 ApTc pTR 262 Tn 3 E 5 65 pRAL 3305 Tc pACYC 184 with 1600 bp chromosomal EcoRI DNA fragment1 n pRAL 3910 ApEm pBR325, cloned pTiB6 EcoRI frag ment 19a pRAL 3911 Ap pBR313 in which cloned pTiB6 BamHI fragment 17a pRAL 3921 pRAL 3101, in which cloned pTiB6 KpnI fragment 9 pRAL 3945 ApTc pTR262 Tn1880 pRAL 3955 ApCm pRAL 3102 Tn1880 pRXL 3956 ApCm pRAL3955 in which cloned pTiB6 BamHI fragment 17a pRAL 3957 ApCm pRAL3956 in which cloned TiB6. KpnI fragment 9 pRAL 3958 ApKm pRK2013 Tn 1882 pRAL 3959 ApTc pRAL 3305 Tn 1882 pAL 1155 ApKm R772 Tn 1880 pAL 1157 ApKm R772 Tn 1882 a R772 Km Hedges pRK 2013 Km Figurski E.coli stems relevant markers specifications sourceKMBL 1164 Pro Thi vd Putte HP 3435 Bio RifR PannekoekA.tumefaciens stemsLBA 285 SpcRLBA 288 RifR LBA 1010 RifR pTiB6LBA 1160 RifR ApTc. LBA 288 Tn 1882 in the chromosome describcd here LBA 1161 Rif ApTc LBA 1160 pAL 1818 LBA 1162 RifRApTc LBA 1160 pAL 1819 LBA 1201 Km pAtC58 Tn5. RLBA 1223 KmSpc LBA 285 pAtC58 Tn5 . n LBA 1224 RifRApKmTc LBA 1160 pAtC58 Tn5 . a LBA 1818 pAL 1818 LBA 1819 pAL 1BiY LBA 4404 RifR pAL 4404LBA 4434 RifR LBA 4404 pAL 1050 LBA 4440 RifRApKm LBA 4404 pAL 1157