# Detergents containing amides as thickening agents.

## Abstract
The invention provides a detergent composition in tended for prolonged or frequent contact with human hair or human skin, containing one or more detergents of the ethersulphate and or ether carboxylic acid type, as well as a thickening agent and, if desired, further usual additives, wherein the thickening agent is an amide of the formula RO CH₂CH₂O

## Claims
Claims for the contracting states BE, CH, DE, FR, GB, IT, LU, NL, SE 1. Detergent compositions intendend for prolonged or frequent contact with human hair or human skin, which composition contains one or more active detergents of the ether sulphate and or ether carboxylic acid type, as well as a thickening agent and, if desired, further usual additives, characterized by the fact that the thickening agent is an amide of the formula RO CH2CH20 nCH2CO NR R , wherein R is an aliphatic hydrocarbon residue of 8 16 carbon atoms, n is a number having an average value of no more than 5 and the group NR R represents the residue of monoethanolamine, diethanolamine or monoisopropanolamine. 2. Detergent composition according to claim 1, characterized by the fact that the thickening agent is an amide according to claim l, whereinR is derived from natural fatty alcohols of 12 14 carbon atoms. 3. Thickening agent according to claim 1 or 2, characterized by the fact that the thickener is an amide of the formula given in claim 1, wherein n has an average value of 0.5 1.5. 4. Use of amides or the formula RO CH2CH20 nCH2C0 NR R , wherein R represents an aliphatic hydrocarbon residue of 8 16 carbon atoms, n is a number having an average value of no more than 5 and the group NR R represents the residue of monoethanolamine, diethanolamine or monoisopropanlamine, for thickening detergent compositions which contain one or more active detergents of the ether sulphate and or ether carboxylic acid type. Claims for the contracting state AT 1. A process for preparing a detergent composition intended for prolonged or frequent contact with human hair or human skin, by incorporating into this composition one or more active detergents of the ether sulphate and or ether carboxylic acid type, as well as a thickening agent and, if desired, further usual additives, characterized by using as the thickening agent an amide of the formule R0 CH2CH2O nCH2CO NR R , wherein R is an aliphatic hydrocarbon residue of 8 16 carbon atoms, n is a number having an average value of no more than 5 and the group NR R represents the residue of monoethanolamine, diethanolamine or monoisopropanolamine. 2. A process according to claim 1, characterized by using an amide wherein R is derived from natural fatty alcohols of 12 14 carbon atoms. 3. A process according to claim 1 or 2, characterized by using an amide wherein n has an average value of 0.5 1.5. 4. Use of amides of the formula RO CH2CH2O nCH2CO NR R , wherein R is an aliphatic hydrocarbon residue of 8 16 carbon atoms, n is a number having an average value of no more than 5 and the group NR R represents the residue of monoethanolamine, diethanolamine or monoisopropanolamine, for thickening detergent compositions which contain one or more active detergents of the ethersulphate and or ether carboxylic acid type.

## Description
DETERGENTS CONTAINING AMIDES AS THICKENING AGENTS This invention relattes to the use of certain specific amides as thickening agents in detergents which contain certain surface active substances. For liquid detergent products which frequently or for a long time are contacted with human hair or human skin, such as shampoos, shower and bath compositions and compositions for non automatic dishwashing, a certain body is desired, i.e. that they have to be thickened. For this purpose various kinds of thickening agents are known and commercially available.Thus, common salt is a known thickening agent, but its drawback is that too high concentrations thereof in cosmetic products can cause eye irritations.Furthermore, the surface active ether carboxylic acids cannot be thickened with common salt at all. Until recently diethanol amides also were used as thickening agents on a large scale. However, according to some recent theories diethanol amides could form nitrosamines, which can cause cancers, as is well known. Therefore, the market for these products has decreased already marketly. Another known thickening agent is distearate of polyethylene glycol 6000. However, this product has a high melting point 55 to 600C ind the use of more than 1 in a detergent composition causes a slimy eel. Also the product is relatively expensive. A related product is a glucamate heving 2 oleyl residues and 2 polyoxyethylene residues having a total of 120 oxyethylene units, which also is a solid. This product des not have a better thickening action than the above mentioned distearate and is much more expensive. Carboxymethyl cellulose also is a known thickening agent, but the viscosity obtained with this agent is not stable, but decreases with time. If possible, it is desirable to use a combination of the cheap NaCl with another thickening agent. Consequently, there is a need of a new thickening agent, particularly for compositions which contain polyether carboxylic acid and or polyether sulphate as an active detergent. As mentioned already, polyether carboxylic acid cannot be thickened with the cheap NaCl, and in the case of polye ersulphate it is desirable for cosmetic compositions and the like to restrict the amount of NaCl in order to pre ent irritation phenomena. Surprisingly, it has now been found that these objects can be attained wij.h very specific compounds. These compounds are amides of the formula R cH2cH20 nCH2Co NR R , wherein R represents an aliphatic hydrocarbon residue having 8 16 carbon atoms, n is a number having an average value of no more than 5 and the group NOR RUN represents the residue of monoethanol amine, diethanol amine of monoisopropanol amine. Accordingly, these compounds are substituted amides of a sub group of the ether carboxylic acids. Not only these compounds appear to have a good thickening action on the ether carboxylic acids and also on the ether sulphates, for which purpose they can be easily combined with NaCl, but moreover they are derivatives of the ether carboxylic acids and as such they are surface active themselves and consequently also contribute to the total activity of the composition in this respect. The present compounds are known as a class from Swiss patent 411221, wherein they have been disclosed as additives for the so called dye spinning of regenerated cellulose fibres. There is no suggestion therein of the present use. In as far as the present additives are mono ethanol amides or monoisopropanol amides, respectively, they cannot give rise to the forming of nitrosamines. The diethanol amides also possess a thickening activity and in this respect they are equivalent or superior to the known products of this type. The fact that the present amides have the desired thickening activity is particularly surprising, because salts of the ether carboxylic acids with the corresponding amines monoethanolamine, and usno isopropanol amine, respectively do not show this action. The hydrophobic residue of the ether carboxylic acids generally can be a high alkyl or alkylphenyl residue. Because it concerns here coinpositions intended for prolonged or frequent contact with human hair or human skin, the compounds having an aliphatic residue enter into consideration in the first place for the present thickening agents.It has appeared inthisrespect that the residue R should notbe too high experiments with a stearyl compound showed an insufficient thickening action. Zn shampoos and the like often ethercarboxylic acids are used derived from alcohols of 12 14 carbon atones and these residues in general also are very satisfactory fox the present thickening agents. Furthermore, the number of epoxy units should not b too high. At values of n higher than 5 the thickening activity is lost.On the other hand, n may also amount to 0. The optimum value for n of course also depends on the exact meaning of R and the choice of the group NR R . The present compounds can be prepared in a usual mannert as mentioned in Swiss patent 411221, starting from the corresponding ethercarboxylic acids. A suitable method of preparation is heating of the free acid with the suitable amine with distilling off of water and this preparation offers no problems whatsoever. As is known in the field of ether carboxylic acids, the number of ethoxy groups usually is an average which is attained by reacting the alcohol ROH with the number of molecules of ethylene oxide which corresponds to the desired average value of n. This reaction can be catalyzed by a base or by a Lewis acid. In the first case an ethoxylation product is formed having a broad distribution of the values of n and in the case of a low value of n also a large amount of non ethoxylated product is present. In the case of catalysis with a Lewis acid a much narrower distribution is obtained and with the present thickening agents a narrow distribution gives a somewhat better activity than is the case with the broader distribution. Preferably, the average value of n is 0.5 1.5. Consequently, the invention provides a detergent composition intended for prolonged or frequent contact with human hair or human skin, said composition containing one or more active detergents of the ethersulphate and or ether carboxylic acid type, as well as a thickening agent and, if desired, further usual additives, said composition being characterized by the fact that the thickening agent is an amide according to the above definitions. The invention is further elucidated with the aid of the following experiments. A standard recipe was used, i.e. as follows Ethersulphate, RO C02H40 2SO4Na derived from Dobanol 23 C12 C13 alcohol mixture, commercial product of Shell , as 28 aqueous solution 27 Ethercarboxylic acid RO C2H4O 1oCH2COOH derived from lauryl and myristyl alcohols 70 30 , as 22 aqueous solution, neutralized to pH 7 12 Benzylformal preservative 0.07 To this were added the thickening agent to be tested. and NaCl and water to 100 . The two surfactant agents are commercial products of the present applicant. In a first series of tests 1.75 of NaCl was incorporated in the above mentioned standard recipe, as well as varying percentages of thickening agents. The following products were compared z, a commercial product, a diethanol amide of coco fatty acid, prepared by direct amidation of coco oil sothat the product also contains glycerol. a. Lauryl myristyl 70 30 O C2H4O 25CH2cONH C2H4OH narrow distribution of ethoxy groups b. Lauryl myristyl 70 30 O C2H4O 4 5 CH2CONH C2H4OH no narrow distribution c. Stearyl O C2H40 2 CO NH C2H40H no narrow distribution d. Ester of lauryl myristyl 70 30 O C2H4O 4 5 CH2COOH and lauryl myristyl 70 30 o C2H4O 4 5H no narrow distribution . e. Ester of lauryl myristyl 70 30 O C2H4O 2 5 CH2COOH and lauryl 0 , myristyl 70 30 o C2H4O 2 5 H both narrow distribution . f. Monoethanolamine salt of stearyl O C2H4O 4 CH2COOH narrow distribution . g. Monoethanolamine salt of lauryl myristyl 70 30 o C2H4Q 1 5 CH2 COOH narrow distribution . TABLE A Viscosity in mPa.S after addition of varying percentages of thickening agent to standard recipe with 1.75 Nazi. EMI4.1 tb Thickening SEP agent SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 5 tb Product SEP z SEP 14 SEP 80 SEP 1.520 tb a SEP 12 SEP 40 SEP 740 tb b SEP 11 SEP 12.5 SEP 20 tb 10 SEP 10 SEP SEP 10 tb d SEP 12.5 SEP 45 SEP 420 tb e SEP 15 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb f SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP 10 tb g SEP 12.5 SEP 14 SEP 35 tb 1 Product is insufficiently soluble. It follows from the above data that product a has a distinct thickening effect. For product b the thickening effect is small, which presumably is caused by the fact that with respect to this hydrophobic group an average number of 4.5 epoxy groups is already to be considered relatively high,Product c, derived from steeryl alcohol, appears to show no activity.Product d shows a distinct activity, but as has appeared later on, the thickening activity decreases rather quickly, which is caused by a gradual hydrolysis of the ester. Product e appears to be unsuitable because of insufficient solubility. Finally, it appears that the monoethanolamine salts, products f and g, show no or almost no thickening effct. Subsequently, the response to NaCl addition was investigated for a number of products. In general, when NaCl is added to a composition which contains another thickening agent, a viscosity increaseisobtained upto a maximum, whereafter on further addition of NaCl the viscosity decreases again. In the present tests one started from the standard recipe with 2 of thickening agent and varying amounts of NaCl. The results have been rendered in table B. TABLE BViscosity in mPa.S Thickening agent 2 EMI5.1 tb NaCl SEP Product SEP z SEP a SEP SEP e SEP f SEP g SEP tb SEP 0 SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP 10 tb SEP 2 SEP 40 SEP 12.5 SEP 160 SEP 16 SEP 15 tb SEP 3 SEP 170 SEP 70 SEP 1900 SEP 25 SEP 37.5 tb SEP 4 SEP 760 SEP 520 SEP 4001 SEP 55 SEP 260 tb SEP 5 SEP 1,600 SEP 1,800 SEP 3001 SEP 480 SEP 1,600 tb SEP 6 SEP 1,700 SEP 2,600 SEP SEP 1,850 SEP 3,200 tb SEP 7 SEP 1 SEP 1,300 SEP 3,200 SEP SEP 4,600 SEP 6,500 tb SEP 8 SEP 800 SEP 3,700 SEP SEP SEP 8,750 SEP 5,400 tb SEP 9 SEP 300 SEP 3,300 SEP SEP SEP 11,200 SEP 1,500 tb SEP 10 SEP 200 SEP 1,900 SEP SEP 9,400 SEP 600 tb The mixture becomes turbid on addition of 4 NaCI and the viscosity then drops. It appears from these data that product a in combination with NaCl shows a higher viscosity maximaum than the product z. Product e again appears to have a low compatibility and the product f and g indeed yield high maxima, but a reasonable thickening only starts to occur at high salt percentages. Because it was supposed that modification of product a by lowering the average number of oxyethylene units perhaps would lead to a better effect, a corresponding product was prepared having an average of 1.5 oxyethylene groups narrow distribution . Furthermore, also another stearyl derivative was tested, this time having a higher average number of oxyethylene units. Accordingly, these are the following products. h. Lauryl myristyl 70 30 O C2H40 1 5 CONH C2H4OH narrow distribution i. Stearyl O C2H40 4 CoNH C2H4OH narrow distribution . These two products were compared with product z in the standard recipe with 1.75 NaCl. The results are as follows TABLE CViscosity in mPa.S 1.75 NaCl EMI6.1 tb SEP SEP Thickenin SEP a SEP ent SEP tb SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 5 tb Product SEP 2 SEP 10 SEP 14 SEP 80 SEP 1,520 tb h SEP 10 SEP 15 SEP 400 SEP 27,500 tb i SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP 13 tb It follows from these data that product h according to expectation worked even better than product a and that product i practically had no thickening activity sothat apparently compounds having a stearyl residue are not suitable. Subsequently, the effect of increasing amounts of NaCl in the standard recipe with 2 thickening agent was compared for product h and product z.The results are as follows TABLE D Viscosity in mPa.S 2 thickening agent EMI6.2 tb SEP NaCl SEP Product SEP z SEP Product SEP h tb SEP 0 SEP 10 SEP 11 tb SEP 2 SEP 40 SEP 50 tb SEP 3 SEP 170 SEP 560 tb SEP 4 SEP 760 SEP 3,100 tb SEP 5 SEP 1,600 SEP 6,200 tb SEP 6 SEP 1,700 SEP 8,000 tb SEP 7 SEP 300 SEP 2,500 tb Consequently, product h appears to bQ clearly superior to the commercial product. A corresponding test was carried out, but this time with 3 of thickening agent. The results are as follows TABLE E Viscosity in mPa.S 38 thickening agent EMI6.3 tb SEP NaCl SEP Product SEP z SEP Product SEP h tb SEP 0 SEP 5 SEP 11 tb SEP 1 SEP 8 SEP 25 tb SEP 2 SEP 135 SEP 450 tb SEP 3 SEP 1,080 SEP 5,700 tb SEP 4 SEP 2,1p0 SEP 8,200 tb SEP 5 SEP 3,000 SEP 1,750 tb SEP 3.100 SEP 480 tb With this percentage of thickening agent it appears accordingly that the maximum effect occurs at a lower NaCl percentage than in the case of the commercial composition, and that moreover the maximum viscosity is much higher. The above mentioned test was repeated with a formulation wherein the ethersulphate had been replaced with a sulphosuccinate. Herein no or hardly no thickening was achieved with both products, product z and product h. The follow 4 products were prepared, wherein R was always laurylmyristyl in the ratio 70 30 Product j RO C2H4O 1.5 CH2CONH CH CH3 CH2OH narrow distribution Product k RO C2H4O 1 5 CH2CONH C2H40H no narrow distribution Product 1 RO C2H4O 1 CH2CONH C2H4OH narrow distribution Lr 1 2 2 4 Product m RC C2H40 1 CH2C H C2H4OH no narrow distribution These products again were tested in the standard recipe and compared with product h. In these experiments varian percentages of thickening agent and NaCl were used. The results are mentioned herein below in table F. TABLE F Viscosity in mPa.SEMI7.1 tb SEP 2 SEP Thickening SEP agent SEP SEP 3 SEP Thickening SEP agent SEP 4 SEP Thickening SEP agent SEP tb NaC1 SEP h SEP j SEP k SEP l SEP h SEP j SEP k SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP j SEP tb SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 11 SEP 13 SEP 11 SEP 6 SEP 15 SEP 12 SEP 12.5 SEP 10 tb SEP 1 SEP SEP 7 SEP 20 SEP 28 SEP 25 SEP 24 SEP 32 SEP 57 SEP 225 SEP 400 tb SEP 2 SEP 50 SEP 32 SEP 120 SEP 100 SEP 450 SEP 600 SEP 210 SEP 4500 SEP 9200 SEP 10000 tb SEP 3 SEP 560 SEP 380 SEP 360 SEP 2000 SEP 5700 SEP 6500 SEP 3300 SEP 9000 SEP 11000 SEP 10500 tb SEP 4 SEP 3100 SEP 2600 SEP 2800 SEP 10000 SEP 8200 SEP 7700 SEP 10000 SEP 500 SEP 800 SEP 5500 tb SEP 5 SEP 6200 SEP 5400 SEP i SEP 6700 SEP 2500 SEP 1750 SEP 1800 SEP 5100 SEP 200 SEP 350 tb SEP 6 SEP 8000 SEP 4000 SEP 5100 SEP 400 SEP 480 SEP 600 SEP 750 tb SEP 7 SEP 2500 SEP 1500 SEP 800 tb SEP 8 SEP 500 SEP 500 tb After carrying out the above tests the available stock of alkylether sulphate was exhausted sothat a new lot thereof was prepared. Because small viscosity differences may occur when using various lots of the same surfactant, some of the above mentioned tests were repeated with the recipe with the new lot of ethersulphate.The results are as follows TABLE GViscosity in mPa.S EMI8.1 tb SEP 2 SEP Thickening SEP agent SEP 3 SEP Thickening SEP agent tb z SEP NaC1 SEP 1 SEP m SEP h SEP j SEP SEP k SEP l SEP m tb SEP 0 SEP 7 SEP 7 SEP 11 SEP 7 SEP 6 SEP 12 SEP 15 tb SEP 1 SEP 11 SEP 10 SEP 19 SEP 16 SEP 12 SEP 55 SEP 49 tb SEP 2 SEP 71 SEP 50 SEP 370 SEP 330 SEP 1000 SEP 2900 SEP 1000 tb SEP 3 SEP 1500 SEP 600 SEP 5200 SEP 4600 SEP 3500 SEP 19000 SEP 15000 tb SEP 4 SEP 1000 SEP 5000 SEP 13000 SEP 13000 SEP 12000 SEP 4000 SEP 2300 tb SEP 5 SEP 17000 SEP 16000 SEP 16000 SEP 7000 SEP 15000 SEP 250 SEP 300 tb SEP 6 SEP 2300 SEP 4000 SEP 2800 SEP 900 SEP 2000 tb SEP 7 SEP 400 SEP 800 SEP 200 SEP 400 tb Finally, some provisional stability experiments were carried out.For products h, j, k and m the standard recipe with 3 thickening agent and 3 NaCl was used. In the case of product 1 the standard recipe with 3 thickening agent and 2 NaCl was used. The results are as follows TABLE HEMI8.2 tb SEP h SEP j SEP k SEP 1 SEP m tb pH SEP in SEP the SEP above tb SEP indicated SEP standard tb SEP recipe SEP 5.5 SEP 5.6 SEP 5.5 SEP 5.5 SEP 5.6 tb loudpoint SEP C SEP 6 SEP 5 SEP 9 SEP 3 SEP 1 tb Clearing SEP point C SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 7 SEP 5 tb Viscosity SEP in SEP mPa.S tb SEP day SEP 0 SEP 8000 SEP 7500 SEP 4200 SEP 7300 SEP 13000 tb SEP day SEP 9 SEP 9000 SEP 7600 SEP 4500 SEP 7000 SEP 12000 tb SEP day SEP 18 SEP 9100 SEP 7400 SEP 4300 SEP 6200 SEP 11800 tb These results point to a sufficient stability.