# Magnet core based on lithium zinc magnanese ferrite.

## Abstract
In order to obtain a soft magnetic ferrite having a high density and a low value of the loss factor, Bi₂O₃ and or V₂O₅ is or are added to an LiZmMn ferrite of the composition Li

## Claims
1. A magnet core of oxidic, ferranagnetic material consisting of a spinel ferrite having a cubic crystal structure, characterized in that the ferrite has the following composition Li0.5 Fe0.5 1 z a Zny Coa Mny IIMnx IIIFe2 x O4 3 2 with 0.05 4 z 0.62 0 a 0.05 0.01 x y 0.25 0.2 µ 0.5 0.5x 0.25a to which has additionally been added p wt. Bi2O3 and q wt. V2O5 in which 0 p 0.15 0 q 0.20 0.005 p q 0.20 2. A magnet core as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that 0.2 z 0.4. 3. A magnet core as claimed in Claim 1 or 2, characterized in that 0.3 Z 0.4.

## Description
Magnet core based on lithium zinc manganese ferrite . The invention relates to a magnet core of oxidic ferromagnetic material consisting of a spinel ferrite having a cubic crystal structure. Magnet cores of oxidic ferromagnetic material consisting of a spinel ferrite having a cubic crystal structure are used in large numbers in induction coils and in transformers in the field of telecommunication and industrial and consumer electronics.Depending on the application, the materials in question may be divided into four types. The first type is a low loss ferrite destined for high quality coils which are used in filters. The magnet cores are usually circular or square pot cores. The second type has a hiqh magnetic initial permeability and is destined for lcw power wideband and pulse transformers. The magnet cores are usually toroids, E cores and various types of pot cores. The third type is suitable for high power applications, for exanple, per transformers operating in the frequency range fran 10 to 100 kHz. The range of powers with which such trans formers are operated typically extends fran 10 750 W. The magnet cores in this case are usually U cores or E cores. The fourth type is destined for use in magnet cores for high quality coils which are used in the frequency range fran 2 12 MHz. The magnet cores are usually pot cores, toroids, rods or beads.Further applications not mentioned hereinbefore are magnet cores for aerial rods, interference suppressors and particle accelerators.Memory cores typically are not included. For application at higher freqeuncies in particular higher than 1 MHz Ni Zn ferrite has so far been used as a magnet core material in conection with its high resistance 105 .cm . Due to the high price of Ni Zn ferrites,attempts have been made to find a replacement ferrite system having comparable electrical and magnetic properties. The invention provides a magnet core based on such a ferrite system. This is characterized by the following composition Li0.5 Fe0,5 1 z a y Znz Coa Mny IIMnx IIIFe2 x O4 3 2 with 0.05 4 z zi 0.62 o a L 0.05 0.01 x y 0.25 0.2 0.50 0.5 0.25a to which has additionally been added p wh. Bi2O3 Q wt. V2O5 in which 0 p 0.15 0 L q 0.20 0.005 p q 0.20 In addition to a cost savinq of approximately 30 of the cost of a Ni Zn ferrite which the use of this ferrite system based on Li Zn Mn ferrite in magnet cores provides, an important advantaqe proves to be that with the very small additions of Bi2O3 and orV205 which the invention Prescribes, a material can be realized which couples ver low losses with an increased density. This parison is made with the same ferrite material, sintered at the same temPerature, but without these additions. If more Bi2O3 and or V205 is added than is prescribed by the invention, the material can be sintered at an, optionally, considerable, lower temperature, it is true, but then it does not appear to be possible to realize magnet cores havinq the abovementioned very low losses. It has been found that the addition of V205 is substantially equally effective as the addition of Bi2O3, so that either Bi2O3 alone, or V205 alone, or Bi203 and V2O5 toqether, may be added.With an additional of at least 0.005 by weight, a material is already obtained havinq a sufficiently high density. The startinq material should preferably comprise an excess of Fe and that in such manner that z in the above given composition formula is in the ranee from 0.2 to 0.4. At these values of z , the addition of very small quantities of Bi2O3 and or V205 accordinq to the invention has proved to be most effective, i.e. an optimum combination of hiqh density and low losses could be realized. The present of a small but specific quantity of Mn, in cobimation with Bi2O3 and or V2O5 as a sintering agent, proves to be essential to obtain a high electric resistance and low losses comparable to the losses of Ni Zn ferrite. Depending on the quantities of Zn, Fe, Bi2O3 and V205, the quantity of Mn should vary from 0.01 to 0.25 formula units. A further aspect of the Li Zn Mn ferrite system described hereinbefore is that, in particular by variation of the Li Zn ration i.e. by variation of z in the ranee from 0.05 to 0.62 , it supplies a number of materials which satisfy a bariety of specifications. In particular, with a zinc content z of 0.3 to 0.4 formula units, materials having magnetic permeabilities of 120 can be re ali ed which are extremely suitable for manufacturing cores for coil formers. The addition of at most 0.05 formula units of Co leads to material having lower osses and the temperature factor of the permeability can also be controlled by means of the Co content. A number of experiments which support the invention will be described hereinafter with reference to the Figures. Figure 1 is a graph on which a number of isopermeability curves are plotted, each curve showing the sinterinq temperature T 5 and the quantities p by weight of By 203 used to produce a number of Li Mn Zn Co ferrite cores having the same magnetic permeability, usinq the same ferrite startinq composition. Figure 2 is of similar form to Figure 1, but in this tan Figure the isoloss factors . 10 6 at 2 MHz are indicated. i Figure 3 is similar to Figure 2, but in this Figure the isoloss factors at 10 MHz are indicated. Figure 4 is of similar form to Figure 1 but in this Figure the isodensities in g cm are indicated. Figure 5 is a graph showinq on the one hand the sintering temperature T5 which is necessary to realize, startinq from a givenLi Zn Mn Co ferrite composition, magnet cores having a magnetic permeability 100 as a function of the addition of V205 expressed in 9 z by weight , and on the other hand indicates the density d in g cm of the magnet cores as a function of the addition of V205 exPressed in g by weight .tan Figure 6 is a graph showing the loss factor x 10 6 i of the magnet cores in Figure 5 as a function of the addition ofV2O5 expressed in g by weight . The loss factor was measured at 2 MHz and at 10 MHz. Figure 7 is a graph which on the one hand shows the density d in q cm3 and on the other hand the variation of the density with dd the sintering temperature in g cm C as a function of the dT S Fe excess of a number of Li Mn Zn Co ferrite cores according to the invention. Figure 8 is graph showing on the one hand the loss factor tan . 10 6 at 2 MHz as a function of the Fe excess and on the i other hand the loss factor at 10 MHz of the Figure 7 cores. tan Figure 9 is a graph showing the loss factor x 10 6 i at 15 MHz as a function of the Fe excess of the Figure 7 cores. Figure 10 is a graph showing the initial permeability Ui as a function of the Fe excess of the Figure 7 cores. Figure 11 is a graph which on the one hand shows the temperature coefficient TF in the range from 5 25 C and on the other hand the temperature coefficient of the permeability TF in the range fran 25 75 OC of the Figure 7 cores as a function of the Fe excessAnd Figure 12 is graph shcwing the sintering temperatures T S at which the magnet cores of Figure 7 were sintered in dependence of the Fe excess Example I For the Preparation of a number of annular magnet cores having a composition of the type Li0.285Fe0.285 Zn0.374 Co0.019Mn0.175 Fe2.150 O4 p wt. Bi2O3 q wt. V2O5 419 q of Fe203 65.70 g of ZnO 22.72 g of Li2CO3 9.31 g of MnCo3 5.0 q of CoCO3 x q of Bi203 y g of V2O5 were weiqhed and ground with 600 ml of alcohol in a 2 litre ball mill for 6 hours. The mixture was evaporated to dryness, prefired at 9000C in air for 2 hours and again ground in the 2 litre ball mill, this time with 500 ml of water for 6 hours. After evaporating to dryness, rings i 0 14 16 mm were compressed fran the mixture. They were sintered in an oxygen containing atmosphere the heating cooling rate was 150 C hour . The rings were kept at the peak temperature for 2 hours. In the table below the properties are recorded of annular magnet cores with the addition of either Bi203 or V205, compared with annular magnet cores having the same composition but without any addition. TABLE EMI5.1 tb Experi SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP V2O5 SEP Sintering SEP Ui SEP density SEP tan SEP SEP x SEP 10 6 tb ment. SEP tempera SEP g cm SEP i tb No. SEP Wt. SEP Wt. SEP ture SEP C tb SEP 2MHz SEP 10MHz tb 43 SEP 1125 SEP 127 SEP 4.25 SEP 34 SEP 80 tb 45 SEP 0.04 SEP 1125 SEP 140 SEP 4.44 SEP 28 SEP 73 tb 49 SEP 0.08 SEP 1125 SEP 120 SEP 4.42 SEP 30 SEP 76 tb The graphs of Figures 1 4 show a number of properties of annular magnet cores having the starting composition as described hereinbefore. In the manufacture the sintering temperature was varied in the range from 1075 to 11250C and the addition p Bi203 was varied in the range from 0 to 0.12 percent by weight.The lines in the qraphs are isolines they interconnect points of the same value of permeability Figure 1 and loss factor, respectively, at 2 MHz Figure 2 and 10 MHz Fiqure 3 , respectively, and the density Figure 4 . It will be obvious from Figures 1 4 that by the addition of a very small quantity of Bi203 an Li Zn Mn Co ferrite with excellent properties can be obtained.EXAMPLE II In the same manner as described in Example I a number of annular magnet cores were manufactured having a composition of the type Li0.33 Fe0.33 Zn0.27 Co0.04 Mn0.09Fe2.27 O4 to which q by weight of V2O5 had been added. Figure 5 shows on the one hand the sintering temperatures Ts which were necessary to provide, with given V205 additions g in by weight , annular cores of the above mentioned composition having a permeability i 100. On the other hand Figure 5 shows the densities of the annular cores thus obtained as a function of theV2O5 addition g. Especially in the range fran 0 to 0.2 by weight of V2O5 addition, the density proves to increase verv considerably. Figure 6 shows the loss factors X i6 at 2MHz and 10MHz of annular cores having the composition described in Figure 5 and the manufacturinq method as a function of the V2O5 addition q in by weight . It has been found that minimum loss factors are realized in the range from 0 to 0.2 by weight. EXAMPLE III If, on the basis of the data of Figures 1 4, a certain quantity of Bi2O3 addition is chosen, then it appears that the properties can even be further improved by a correct choice of theFe excess of the Li Mn Zn ferrite composition to be manufactured. In the same manner as described in Example I, a number of annular magnet cores were manufactured having a opposition of the type Li0.285 Fe0.285 Zn0.374 Co0.019 Mn0.175 Fe2 04 0.04 by weight of Bi2O3. The Fe excess varies in the range fran 0.09 to 0.33. In the graphs of Figures 7 11 a number of properties are recorded of the annular cores thus obtained as a function of the Fe excess Figure 7 shows on the one hand the density d as a function of , and on the other hand the variation of the density with the dd sintering temperarture . It will be obvious that by a correct dTs choice of the Fe excess, with a given quantity of addition, the density can be optimized. It also appears that there is a range of values where the density depends very slightly on the temperature at which sintering is carried out. Figures 8, 9, 10 and 11 show how the loss factor at 2MHz, 10MHz and 15MHz, respectively, the permeability, and the temperature coefficient of the permeability can be optimized by a correct choice of the Fe excess with a given quantity of addition. Figure 12 shows the optimum sintering temperature for each individual value of the Fe excess S in the range from 0.09 to 0.33.Said sinterinq temperatures were used in the manufacture of the annular cores of which Figures 7 11 show a number of properties. The preferential range of 0.2 c 0.4 in this case proves to correspond with the range of sintering temperatures from approximately 11250C to approximately 11500C. It is to be noted that Co in an oxidizing medium can became 3 valent. In order to obtain a useful material it should be ensured that sintering is carried out under such conditions that at most half of the Co ions becomes 3 valent. This means that in the formula which describes the composition of the ferrite material from magnet cores according to the invention Li0.5 Fe0.5 1 z a y Znz Coa Mny II Mnx III Fe2 x O4 3 2 the upper limit of is equal to 0.25 a. The lower limt of 6 is determined by the condition that at higher sintering temperatures, or in a less oxidizing medium, the Mn can became fully 2 valent. In order to account for this, the lower limit of is equal to 0.5x.