# HUMAN MONOCLONAL ANTIBODY AND ITS PREPARATION

## Claims
Synthetischer menschlicher monoclonaler Antikörper gegen ein Exotoxin A von

## Description
This invention relates to a human monoclonal antibody against an exotoxin of With the development of antibiotics, pathogenic bacteria causing infectious diseases have undergone change. That is, the clinical use of antibiotics has been replacing pathogenic bacteria with other types of bacteria. The bacteria which have in the past been considered to be of low pathogenicity or weak toxicity, in particular It is known that infection by For the prevention and treatment of bacterial infections, the first choice is chemotherapy using antibiotics and synthetic antibacterial agents. Many antibiotics have been developed, including streptomycin, kanamycin, penicillin and cephalosporin, and these have been presenting marked clinical effects. Most of them show inhibitory activity against almost all Gram positive cocci represented by Another example of the limitations of treatment with antibiotics is that antibiotics, which are able to inhibit the growth of bacteria, are not fully effective against the toxins or enzymes which are produced by bacteria and which are responsible for pathogenicity. It is known to prevent and treat bacterial infections by neutralizing the toxins and enzymes derived from bacteria by the administration of immunoglobulin preparation, that is, by antibody therapy. This method is usually applied in combination with antibiotic therapy and is increasingly replacing antibiotic therapy. Serum with high antibody titer can be obtained by actively immunizing horses, rabbits or other animals, and the antibody treatment administering this serum has been shown in many experiments to have an excellent therapeutic effect on infections induced in various animals. The effectiveness of antibody treatment in which non human animal serum is administered to human beings is widely acknowledged in the cases of, for example, diphtheria toxin, snake poisoning, etc. An article by D.R. Galloway The transfer of foreign protein obtained from non human animals to the human body is rarely employed in the treatment of bacterial infections, since it often induces severe undesirable side effects such as anaphylaxis and other allergic reactions. There is hence a strong need for the development of human immunoglobulin having a high antibody titer against bacteria, and toxins and enzymes derived from bacteria, and an excellent therapeutic effect against bacterial infections. EP A 105804 describes the production of human monoclonal antibodies against tetanus toxin and diphtheria toxin. However, the neutralising activity of such antibodies which is observed in the case of tetanus toxin is lower than the activity achieved using mouse monoclonal antibodies. No quantitative measure of neutralising activity in the case of diphtheria toxin is given. The human immunoglobulin preparations available hitherto were formulated in intramuscular or intravenous parenteral preparations by collecting blood from healthy people or from patients with a history of bacterial infection, fractionating and purifying the immunoglobulin by known methods, and removing aggregates by the addition of polyethylene glycol, by treatment with a kind of proteinase, by sulfonation, or by DEAE column chromatography or the like. These human immunoglobulin preparations have the advantage of being free of side effects such as anaphylaxis, which is observed upon the administration of non human animal immunoglobulins, but they also have some drawbacks. First, the antibody titer to bacteria and toxins or enzymes derived from bacteria is low, and a sufficient therapeutic effect may not always be obtained. Second, it is difficult to procure consistently a large quantity of immunoglobulin having a high antibody titer. It is also extremely difficult to obtain constantly sera with a high titer, and it is likely that the antibody titer may vary in each manufacturing batch, since the blood used as the raw material is collected from many different healthy volunteers or patients. Third, there is a possibility that HBs virus, or other hepatitis virus, or adult T cell leukemia virus ATLV, HTLV might sometimes be present as contaminants in the immunoglobulin preparation. The present inventors have sought a solution to these problems and have now succeeded in establishing a human cell line continuously producing a human monoclonal antibody effective against infections caused by Accordingly, the present invention provides synthetic human monoclonal antibody against an exotoxin A of In a further aspect, the present invention provides a process for producing a human monoclonal antibody against exotoxin A of Yet another aspect of the invention is a hybridoma cell line capable of permanently proliferating and producing a human monoclonal antibody against exotoxin A of According to the present invention, a human cell line continuously producing a monoclonal antibody specifically reactive with Pseudomonas aeruginosa exotoxin A is prepared. The said cell line may be produced by the following methods The first method comprises infecting human lymphocyte B cells previously sentisized with The second method is carried out as follows Human lymphocyte B cells sensitized with The third method is as follows The EB virus transformed cells producing the desired antibody established in the first method are fused with myeloma or B lymphoblastoid cells into a hybrid cell line which continuously proliferates The obtained lymphoblastoid cells are negative against EB virus or other infectious viruses. The antibody of the present invention is produced in a large quantity by culturing the cell line established as above The human antibody against Pseudomonas aeruginosa exotoxin A provided by the present invention is homogeneous derived from a monoclone human antibody which specifically recognizes the antigen determinant of Pseudomonas exotoxin. The human monoclonal antibody of the present invention possesses either an ability to bind to Pseudomonas exotoxin binding ability , or an ability to inhibit invasion of the exotoxin into cells, or an ability to inhibit the enzymatic action of the exotoxin neutralizing activity , and can be used for the treatment of infections caused by Furthermore, it may be used for isolation and identification of exotoxin producing This invention will be further described below. The Pseudomonas exotoxin as an antigen refers to a toxin produced by The manufacturing method of the human monoclonal antibody of this invention may be basically divided into the following steps 1 preparation of human lymphocyte B cells sensitized with an antigen of interest, 2 establishment of a cell line producing a particular monoclonal antibody by conferring to the B cells an ability to permanently proliferate 3 cultivation of the cell line 4 collection and purification of the antibody from the culture medium and 5 preparation of an immunoglobulin preparation with a high antibody titer which contains the monoclonal antibody. These steps are described in more detail below The sensitized human lymphocyte B cells used in this process are human lymphatic cells which produce antibodies to Pseudomonas exotoxin, and are mainly isolated by the centrifugal method from the peripheral blood by using lymphocyte separating agents such as Lymphoprep , Nyegaard Co., Oslo, Norway and Mono Poly Resolving Medium , Flow Laboratories Ltd., McLean, Virginia,U.S.A. Alternatively, lymphocyte B cells derived from lymph nodes, spleen or other organs removed for the purposes of diagnosis or treatments of diseases or from the cord blood may be used in preparing the sensitized lymphocyte B cells. It is preferable to use sensitized human lymphocyte B cells derived from patients having a history of infection by This invention includes two methods for obtaining cell lines that can limitlessly and continuously proliferate from the human lymphocyte B cells which are sensitized with the antigen. In the first method, human lymphocyte B cells sensitized with antigen are cultured with EB virus derived from marmoset cells B95 8 so that the lymphocyte B cells are infected with the EB virus. Preferably, 2 to 10 TD₅₀ viruses are mixed per cell. 0.5 to 3 x 10⁴ cells per well are seeded in a 96 well microplate, and cultured for 2 or 5 weeks at 32 to 37 C in the presence of 5 to 10 of CO₂ in a conventional medium such as RPMI 1640 or Eagle s MEM containing 2 to 20 v v of preselected serum such as fetal bovine, bovine, equine or human preferably fetal bovine serum. During cultivation, the medium is replaced by a half portion every two to four days. As required, antibiotics or synthetic antibacterial compounds are added to prevent contamination with mycoplasma. The transformed cells are, after 10 days of infection, observed under an optical microscope in a cluster of 20 to 200 cells, and are easily distinguished from nontransformed cells. The antibody titer of the culture medium in each well containing sufficiently grown transformant cells is assayed by the enzyme linked immunosorbent assay ELISA to select wells containing cells producing the antibody. The selected transformant cells are then cloned by the so called limiting dilution method. For example, the solution containing the transformant cell cluster is lightly sucked and discharged repeatedly with a pipette so as to loosen the cluster and diluted to a proper cell density with a culture medium, which is then seeded in a 96 well microplate at about 0.5 to 100 cells well and cultivated. Alternatively, they may be cloned by using soft agar. For example, about 7 x 10⁴ to 7 x 10⁵ transformed cells are mixed in 2 ml of 0.36 to 0.4 w v soft agar preferably sea plaque agarose , and the soft agar is overlayered onto the solidified agar layer consisting of 3 ml of 0.5 agar in culture plate 30 mm in diameter to be cultivated at 5 CO₂, 37 C. Thus, colonies growing from one cell are obtained. At the time of cloning, it is preferable to use cells which are present in the abdominal cavity of mouse, human cord blood lymphocytes or X ray irradiated spleen cells of mouse, as the feeder layer. The antibody titer of the culture supernatant of the cloned cell lines is measured by the ELISA method to further select the cell line with the greatest production of specific antibodies. By repeating this cloning and selection of the cells with a high antibody production two or three times, transformed cell lines which grow rapidly and which are capable of producing the monoclonal antibody stably and in a large quantity are established. In the second method, human lymphocyte B cells sensitized with antigen and myeloma cells are fused in the presence of polyethylene glycol PEG . The myeloma cells used are hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyltransferase HGPRT deficient mutants derived from mouse myeloma cells, such as P3X63 Ag8Ul P3Ul provided by Dr. Maruyama, Osaka Univ., Osaka and Dr. Watanabe, Saga Medical College, Saga ref. Yelton D.E., et al. Curr. Top. Microbial. Immunol. The cell lines established with the antigen sensitized human lymphocyte B cells by the EB virus transformation method or cell fusion method hybridoma method are characterized by its continuous proliferation and its stable and abundant production of the monospecific antibody. Thus established transformed cells or hybridomas 0.5 x 10⁵ to 5 x 10⁵ cells ml are cultured by stationary or rotary cultivation in an adequate vessel such as a culture flask or plate with a medium usually used for the cultivation of animal cells under the conditions of 2 to 10 CO₂, at 32 to 37 C in a CO₂ incubator. When cultivating in a large quantity, a jar fermenter or hollowfiber system designed for animal cells may be used. There may be used such media as RPMI1640 or Eagle s MEM etc.containing 2 to 20 of fetal bovine, calf, bovine, equine or human serum, or serum free medium containing traces of components necessary for cell proliferation, such as insulin, transferin, ethanolamine, selenite, bovine albumin and lipid. Besides the The antibody of the present invention may be purified by conventional biochemical techniques. The following well known methods may be used, alone or in combination ammonium sulfate precipitation fractionation, ethanol precipitation fractionation, PEG fractionation, ion exchange chromatography, gel filtration, affinity chromatography, high performance liquid chromatography, and electrophoresis. In the purification process, it is necessary to prevent the formation of aggregate and the reduction of antibody activity. Human serum albumin HSA is suitably added to the antibody preparation at a concentration of 0.05 to 2 for this purpose. However, it may sometimes be preferable to add, instead, glycine, α alanine or other amino acids, especially lysine, arginine, histidine or other basic amino acids, glucose, mannitol or other sugars, and sodium chloride or other salts. In the case of IgM antibody, which is known to aggregate easily, treatment with β propionolactone or acetic anhydride may prevent aggregation and make intravenous injection possible. The purified human monoclonal antibody may be made into pharmaceutical preparations by the usual preparation method for biological products. Basically, after filtration and sterilization by a membrane filter or the like, it is freeze dried together with stabilizers and packed in a sterile vial. The present human monoclonal antibody preparation comprises at least a human monoclonal antibody against exotoxin A of The human monoclonal antibody obtained according to this invention usually belongs to class IgG or IgM, but is not limited to these. The present human monoclonal antibody binds to Pseudomonas exotoxin binding activity . It is desirable for the antibody to have a high binding activity of 10⁸ liter mol or higher. It may also have the ability to inhibit the invasion of exotoxin into cells, and the ability to inhibit enzymatic activity of exotoxin neutralizing activity . Mice experimentally infected with exotoxin producing When used for the treatment or prevention of infection with exotoxin producing As described above, the human monoclonal antibody against an exotoxin A of The invention will be further described and illustrated in the following examples, but is no limited thereto. Establishment of human monoclonal antibody producing cell line by EB virus transformation method. I Preparation of EB virus solution and assay of its viral titer. Marmoset B95 8 cells provided by Dr. Yamane, Tohoku Univ. Sendai Human Genetic Mutant Cell Repository, Camden, N.J. producing EB virus were suspended at a density of 6.5 x 10⁵ cells ml in RPMI 1640 medium containing 10 v v of fetal calf serum FCS and were cultivated for 4 days at 5 CO₂, 37 C, by using a culture flask T 75 Corning Glass Works, Corning, N.Y. 25110 . The supernatant of the culture medium was collected, and was centrifuged for 10 minutes by a low speed centrifuge Tomy Seiko Co., Ltd. Tokyo, Japan RS 20BH at 2,000 rpm rotor TS 7 , and its supernatant was filtered by 0.45µ membrane filter Myrex SLHA 02505 Millipore Corporation, Bedford, MA . This filtrate was distributed into serum tubes Sumitomo Bakelite Company Ltd. Tokyo, Japan MS 4505 and stored at 80 C, and was dissolved when necessary and used in the experiment of transformation of human lymphocytes with EB virus. The viral titer of the EB virus solution was measured by the method proposed by D.J. Moss and J.H. Pope J. General Virology, The cells were grown for 3 weeks while half of the culture medium was replaced with fresh medium at 3 day intervals and the presence of the transformed cells was investigated by observing with an optical microscope. Transformation rate was determined using six wells at every step of dilution. The maximum dilution rate required to transform 50 of the cells was statistically determined by the Reed and Muench method Reed, J.J. Muench, H., American J. of Hygiene, 2 Measurement of titer of anti Pseudomonas exotoxin antibody by ELISA. The titer of anti Pseudomonas exotoxin antibody was measured by the method proposed by S. J. Cryz, E. Fürer, R. Germainer Infection and Immunity, After the exotoxin solution was removed from the microplate, the phosphate buffered saline solution called PBS pH 7.2 composition NaCl 8 g liter , KCl 0.2 g liter , Na₂HPO₄ 12H₂O 2.9 g liter and KH₂PO₄ 0.2 g liter containing 3 of bovine serum albumin BSA was distributed at 120 µl per well, and incubated for 30 minutes at 37 C in order to block the exotoxin unadsorbed portion. The microplates were used in the subsequent operation as an antigen adsorbed plate. It was stored at 20 C, as required, at this stage. Before the assay, the antigen adsorbed plate was washed three times with PBS containing 0.05 of Tween 20 Polyoxyethylene Sorbitan Monolaurate Nakarai Chemicals Ltd., Kyoto, Japan called PBST . The PBST containing 1 of BSA was distributed at 50 µl per well, and the sample serum ascites or culture supernatant diluted in PBST containing 1 of BSA was added at 50 µl per well, and incubated for 2 hours at 37 C. Then the sample solution was removed, and the microplate was washed three times with PBST. A solution of the second antibody defined below was added at 100 µl per well, and incubated for 2 hours at 37 C. As the second antibody, phosphatase labeled and affinity purified anti human immunogloblin antibody Kirkegaard Perry Lab. Inc. Gaithersburg, MD was used after diluting 500 to 1,000 times with PBS containing 1 of BSA. For the measurement of IgG and IgM antibody titers, phosphatase labeled anti human IgG and IgM antibodies were used, respectively. After the second antibody solution was removed, the microplate was washed three times with PBST. A coloring substrate solution an aqueous solution having 3 mg of p nitrophenyl disodium phosphate dissolved in 1 ml of 10 diethanolamine buffer solution at pH 9.1 containing NaN₃ 0.2 mg ml and MgCl₂ 6H₂O 0.1 mg ml was added at 100 µl per well and a reaction performed at 37 C After 45 minutes 3 N NaOH was added at 20 µl per well to stop the reaction. After the reaction was over, the OD₄₀₅ was measured by multiscanner Titertek Multiskan MCC, Flow Laboratories, Inc. McLean, Virginia . 3 Selection of lymphocyte donors. Peripheral blood was collected from 29 human volunteers, and the antibody titer of the anti Pseudomonas exotoxin of the isolated serum sample was measured by the ELISA method. The results are partly shown in Table 1. Five samples showed high titer of anti exotoxin IgG antibody, and one of them showed relatively higher anti exotoxin IgM antibody titer. 4 Preparation of lymphocytes from human peripheral blood. Peripheral blood 100ml was taken from human volunteer No. 1 showing a high titer of anti Pseudomonas exotoxin antibody in serum. 15 ml of Mono Poly Resolving Medium Flow Laboratories Inc., McLean, Virginia was put in a centrifugal tube Sumitomo Bakelite Company Ltd., Tokyo Japan, 50 ml capacity , and 20ml of the peripheral blood was slowly overlaid on it. The solution was centrifuged in a low speed centrifuge Tomy Seiko Co. Ltd., Tokyo, Japan, RS 20BH for 15 minutes at room temperature at a speed of 2,500 rpm rotor TS 7 , causing erythrocytes to be separated from lymphocytes. The portion containing lymphocytes was recovered and washed twice with RPMI 1640 medium containing 10 of FCS hereinafter referred to as the medium , and the number of cells was counted. 1.2 x 10⁸ lymphocytes were obtained. 5 Establishment of anti Pseudomonas exotoxin antibody producing cell line by EB virus transformation method. To a suspension of 2 x 10⁷ cells of peripheral blood lymphocytes of human volunteer No. 1 in 2 ml of the medium, was added 10 ml of said EB virus solution with viral quantity of 10⁷ TD₅₀ ml . The solution was incubated for 2 hours at 5 CO₂ at 37 C and then centrifuged in a low speed centrifuge Tomy Seiko RS 20BH for 2 minutes at 10 C, at 2,000 rpm rotor TS 7 to recover the human lymphocytes infected with EB virus. The EB virus infected lymphocytes were suspended in a medium containing 10 of fetal bovine serum, penicillin 100 IU ml , streptomycin 50 µg ml , polymyxin 25 µg ml , spectinomycin 20 µg ml , and arginine 0.2 mg ml Microplasma Cocktail, Bradley et al., 5th International Congress of Immunology, Kyoto, 1983, abbreviated as MPC about 2 x 10⁵ cells ml , and 100 µl per well of the suspension was seeded in microplates to which a suspension of mouse peritoneal cells 3 x 10⁴ cells well had previously been added. After culturing for one week, half the medium was replaced with fresh MPC every three days, and the growth of cells was observed three weeks later. In all the wells, the growth of EB virus transformed cells was observed. Furthermore, the titer of the anti exotoxin antibody contained in the supernatant of the culture medium was measured by ELISA method. Wells with a high titer of anti exotoxin IgG antibody were noted at a rate of 1 960 FK 5A5 . In the supernatant, human IgG was contained in an amount of 2 µg ml, and its antibody titer was the same as that of serum No. 1 diluted 50 times. 6 Cloning. Cells from the well with a high titer of anti exotoxin antibody were suspended in the MPC at 10³ cells ml, which was seeded in an amount of 100 µl per well in a microplate to which a suspension of mouse peritoneal cells 3 x 10⁴ cells well had previously been added. After cultivating for 5 days, one half of the medium was replaced with fresh MPC every three days. Three weeks later, the titer of the anti exotoxin antibody contained in the culture supernatant was measured. After cultivating for 3 weeks as above, growth of transformed cells was observed in 68 out of 96 wells. Of these the anti exotoxin antibody titer was high in 3 wells, and relatively high in 6 wells. Similarly, using cells in the wells with high antibody titer, we established a cell line FK 5A5 which produces anti exotoxin antibodies stably. Establishment of human monoclonal antibody producing cell line by EB virus transformation. Preparation of EB virus solution, assay by ELISA, and preparation of human peripheral blood lymphocytes were carried out in the same manner as in Example 1. Establishment of anti Pseudomonas exotoxin antibody producing cell line by EB virus transformation was effected basically in the same manner as in Example 1. That is, 9.0 x 10⁶ lymphocytes of peripheral blood of human volunteer No. 1 were mixed with 5 ml of viral solution having viral infectivity of 10⁷ TD₅₀ ml to infect the lymphocytes. The cells were seeded in microplates in an amount of 1.8 x 10⁴ cells per well, and cultivated as in Example 1. After 12 days of cultivation, growth of cells was observed in all wells, and wells with a high titer of anti Pseudomonas exotoxin antibody were obtained at a rate of 1 480. The obtained cell line FK 001 was able to produce anti Pseudomonas exotoxin antibody stably without lowering the antibody titer. The class of the antibody produced was IgM. The lymphoblastoid cell FK 001 thus obtained was confirmed to be negative against viral capsid antigen VCA of EB virus by immunological method with KAYAKU VCA kit Wako Pure Chemicals, Tokyo, Japan . It indicates that lymphoblastoid cell FK 001 does not produce any EB virus particle. Establishment of human monoclonal anti Pseudomonas exotoxin antibody producing cell line by human mouse cell fusion. 1 Measurement of anti Pseudomonas exotoxin antibody titer by radioimmunoassay RIA method. A 96 well microplate Falcon 3912 was washed, then 200 µl per well of PBS containing 3 of BSA was added thereto and incubated for 30 minutes at 37 C. After removal of the PBS containing 3 of BSA, the microplate was dried at 37 C for 10 minutes and then washed three times with PBS. Thereafter, 50 µl of supernatant of a culture medium or ascites diluted in PBS containing 1 of BSA, and 50 µl of ¹²⁵I labeled Pseudomonal exotoxin about 20,000 cpm specific activity 18 mCi mg in turn diluted in PBS containing 1 of BSA were added to each well, and incubated at 37 C for 2 hours. The microplate was allowed to stand overnight at 4 C. The next day, 50 µl of rabbit anti human IgM G antiserum MILES YEDA Ltd., Rehovot, Israel, 65 066 anti IgG, 65 067 anti IgM diluted in PBS was added to each well, and was stirred for an hour at 37 C. Twenty µl of Protein A Sepharose Pharmacia, Uppsala, Sweden suspended in PBS containing 1 mg ml of gelatin and 0.02 of NaN₃ was added to each well, and stirred for an hour at 4 C. The microplate was centrifuged for 10 minutes at 1,500 x g. After centrifuging, half of the supernatant was removed, and, instead, Tris hydrochloric acid buffer 50 mM, pH 7.5, hereinafter called washing buffer containing 5 mM EDTA, 1 mg ml gelatin, 0.02 NaN₃, and 150 mM NaCl was added to each well. After centrifuging again, half of the supernatant was replaced by the washing buffer. After repeating this operation three to five times, each well was separated, and the radio activity was measured by a γ counter. 2 Preparation of human peripheral blood lymphocytes sensitized with antigen. Lymphocyte B cells were collected from the human peripheral blood using the same procedure described in Example 1 3 and 4 . 3 Cell fusion. Mouse BALB C myeloma cells P3X63 Ag8U1 referred to as P3U1 Marguilies et al., Cold Spring Harbor Symp. Quant. Biol., The antibody titer was measured by RIA see Example 3 1 . 4 Cultivation of the hybridoma cells, preparation of antibodies, and measurement of antibody titer. The thus obtained cloned hybridoma and the hybridoma in the antibody producing well before cloning were cultured The antibody titer was measured by RIA see Example 3 1 . 5 Specificity of antibody. It was confirmed by the competitive inhibition experiment using the RIA see Example 3 1 that the antibody in the ascites of hybridoma cells reacts specifically with the Pseudomonas exotoxin. As mentioned in Example 3 1 a 96 well microplate, Falcon 3912 to which BSA had preliminarily been adsorbed, was washed and then 50 µl of ascites diluted in PBS containing 1 of BSA, 50 µl of a solution of ¹²⁵I labeled Pseudomonas exotoxin about 20,000 cpm diluted in PBS containing 1 of BSA and 10 µl of a solution of unlabeled Pseudomonas exotoxin diluted in PBS containing 1 of BSA at various concentrations were added to each well. Incubation took place for 2 hours at 37 C, and then the microplate was allowed to stand overnight at 4 C. Rabbit anti human IgM G antiserum and Protein A Sepharose Pharmacia, Uppsala, Sweden were successively added, incubated, centrifuged and washed, and the radioactivity of the antigen antibody complex was measured as explained in Example 3 1 . The results with the antibody in ascites of hybridoma 3F6 are shown in Table 4. The competitive inhibition was carried out upon the simultaneous addition of labeled and unlabeled antigens. It was thus confirmed that the present antibody reacts specifically with the Pseudomonas exotoxin. The background value was 650 to 750 cpm. Establishment of human monoclonal anti Pseudomonas exotoxin antibody producing cell line by human human cell fusion. Human lymphoblastoid cells NC0467.3 provided by Dr. Rosen, Karolinska Inst., Stockholm ref. Chiorazzi et al., J. Exp. Med. Cell fusion by using EB virus transformed cells. 0.5 x 10⁷ cells of human lymphoblastoid cells FK 001, which were transformed by EB virus prepared from Marmoset B95 8 cells as described in Example 1 1 in the same manner as in Example 2 and which produce specific antibody against Pseudomonal exotoxin, were fused with 2.5 x 10⁷ cells of mouse myeloma P3 NS 1 1 Ag4 1 so called NS 1 provided by Dr. Watanabe, Saga Medical College, Saga Human Genetic Mutant Cell Repository, Camden, N.J. ref. Köhler, G. and Milstein, C. Eur. J. Immunol. Preparation of antigen sensitized lymphocytes by Human peripheral blood lymphocytes collected from 25 human volunteers were mixed 2 x 10⁶ cells each , and 50 ml of RPMI1640 medium containing 10 of fetal bovine serum was added thereto. The mixture was incubated for 3 days in 5 CO₂ and at 37 C in a culture flask T 75 Corning 25110 . The culture supernatant obtained was mixed with an equal amount of RPMI1640 medium containing 15 of fetal bovine serum, 2 mM of L glutamine and 1 mM of sodium pyruvate. Human peripheral blood lymphocytes 10⁷ per ml at the final density were added to the above mixed medium additionally containing 0.25 to 2.5 µg ml of pokeweed mitogen PWM lectin P L Biochemicals, Inc., Milwaukee, WIS , 0.001 of Protein A Sepharose Pharmacia, Uppsala, Sweden and 100 ng ml of inactivated Pseudomonas exotoxin, and 10 ml of the medium was then cultivated for 4 days in 5 CO₂ at 37 C in a culture flask T 75 Corning 25110 . After incubation, the antigen sensitized human peripheral blood was separated by centrifuging and 1 x 10⁷ to 5 x 10⁷ cells thereof were fused with mouse myeloma cells or human lymphoblastoid cells in the same manner as used in preparation of human mouse hybridoma Example 3 or human human hybridoma Example 4 . About two or three weeks later the culture supernatant in the well showing growth was inspected for anti Pseudomonas exotoxin antibody production, according to ELISA as in Example 1 2 or RIA as in Example 3 1 . The hybridoma in the antibody producing well was cloned by limiting dilution. About two or three weeks later, the culture supernatant of the cloned cells was similarly inspected for anti Pseudomonas exotoxin antibody production, and antibody producing clones were obtained. Purification of specific antibody and its characterization. FK 001 cells transformed by EB virus and established as an anti Pseudomonas exotoxin antibody producing cell line were cultivated in the RPMI1640 medium containing 10 of FCS. Its culture supernatant 330 ml ,protein content 750 mg was subjected to precipitation with 50 saturated ammonium sulfate solution and dialysis against 0.1 M Tris hydrochloric acid buffer solution pH8.0 containing 0.2M NaCl. 10 ml of the dialyzate was loaded onto a Sephadex G 200 column 2.5 cm in diameter, 85 cm in length, and 417 ml in volume , and eluted with 0.1M Tris hydrochloric acid buffer solution pH8.0 containing 0.2 M NaCl. This gel filtration gave three peaks of protein IgM, IgG, albumin fractions and the anti Pseudomonas exotoxin antibody activity was observed only in the IgM fraction. The recovery rate of protein was 3 , and the specific activity was increased by about eight times. Purified FK 001 antibody was reduced with 2 mercaptoethanol and was subjected to SDS 12.5 acrylamide gel electrophoresis. Two bands of 84 to 86 K H chain and 25 to 29 K L chain were observed. Taking the data of the gel filtration experiment into account, the apparent molecular weight M.W. of FK 001 antibody was estimated to be 950 to 1150 K daltons. Furthermore, purified FK 001 antibody, which was reduced with 2 mercaptoethanol and electrophoresed in SDS 12.5 acrylamide gel, was transferred in a conventional manner to nitrocellulose Schleicher Schuell Inc., Keene, NH and was reacted with alkaline phosphatase labeled anti µ, γ heavy chain antibody Kirkegaard Perry Laboratories, Inc., Gaithersburg, MD and alkaline phosphatase labeled anti κ, λ light chain antibody E.Y laboratories Inc., San Mateo, CA , respectively. The FK 001 antibody preparation was only reactive with anti µ heavy chain and κ light chain antibody in the system of so called Western blotting Towbin, H et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. Analysis of antigenic specificity by Western blotting technique. After SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of 3.5 µg of Pseudomonas exotoxin and 13.2 µg of molecular weight measuring marker protein 1.5 µg of phosphorylase b, 1.9 µg of BSA, 3.3 µg of egg albumin, 1.9 µg of carbodehydrogenase, 1.8 µg of soybean trypsin inhibitor, and 2.8 µg of α lactoalbumin , the gel was dipped overnight at 4 C in transbuffer 25 mM Tris, 192 mM glycine, pH 8.3, 20 v v methanol . Then the gel was electrically transferred 30 V, 4.5 h onto a nitrocellulose membrane BioRad Laboratories, Richmond, CA at room temperature, and was blocked by incubation for an hour at room temperature in the 50 mM Tris hydrochloric acid buffer solution, pH 8.0 TBS , containing 2 of BSA and 0.9 of NaCl. Furthermore, the nitrocellulose membrane was blocked by incubating for an hour at room temperature in the TBS containing 0.1 of BSA and 10 of FCS, and it was further incubated for an hour at 37 C in an aqueous solution of each of 1 No. 1 serum human serum with anti Pseudomonas exotoxin antibody activity detectable by ELISA method , 2 culture supernatant of anti Pseudomonas exotoxin antibody producing cell lines FK 001, 3 an IgM fraction purified from FK 001 culture supernatant, and 4 culture supernatant of RB virus transformed cell line HI 006, respectively, and then further incubated overnight at 4 C. After being washed five times with TBS pH 8.0 containing 0.05 of Tween 20, the nitrocellulose membranes were incubated for an hour at 37 C together with the second antibody peroxidase labeled anti human immunoglobulin antibody diluted 3,000 times in PBS containing 1 of BSA and 0.05 of Tween 20 . Similarly, after the nitrocellulose membrane had been washed five times with TBS containing 0.05 of Tween 20 pH 8.0 , a coloring reagent TBS containing 0.5 mg ml of chloronaphthol, 20 of methanol, and 0.03 of H₂O₂, pH 7.5 was added to develop the color. As a result, in the lane of the electrophoresis of Pseudomonas exotoxin, in the reaction with No. 1 serum 1 , FK 001 culture supernatant 2 , and its purified IgM 3 , only one band colored in the vicinity of a molecular weight of 68 to 72 K was noted. In the reaction with HI 006 culture supernatant 4 , no coloring was observed at all. Meanwhile, in the electrophoresis of a marker protein for measurement of molecular weight, no reaction occurred with any antibody, and no coloring was observed. This shows the specificity of the reaction of FK 001 antibody with the Pseudomonas exotoxin. Activity of antibody to neutralize Pseudomonas exotoxin. Mouse BALB C 3T3 cells American Type Culture Collection, Rockville, MD were suspended in RPMI 1640 medium containing 10 of FCS at 2.0 x 10⁵ cells ml, which was then seeded in an amount of 100 µl per well in a 96 well microplate Sumitomo Bakelite MS 3096F and cultivated for 48 hours in 5 CO₂ at 37 C. Then, the culture supernatant of EB virus transformed monoclonal antibody producing cell lines, such as FK 5A5, FK 001, HI 006, was added in an amount of 100 µl per well. At the same time, Pseudomonas exotoxin solution 10 to 300 ng ml was added in an amount of 10 µl per well. After the exotoxin treated 3T3 cells had been further cultivated for 24 hours in 5 CO₂ at 37 C, the whole medium was replaced with a new medium containing ³H leucine specific activity 0.2 mCi mg, 10 µCi ml and the 3T3 cells were cultivated for 2 hours more. The cells were washed first with PBS then with PBS containing 0.02 of EDTA, and the cells were separated from the plate surface with 0.25 of trypsin solution to prepare a suspension. The cells were incubated at 4 C in 5 trichloroacetic acid TCA and washed three times repeatedly until the soluble ³H leucine had been extracted and removed. The portion of ³H taken into the TCA insoluble fraction was separated using a Titertek Cell Harvester 530, Flow Laboratories and was measured by a liquid scintillation counter Beckmann Instruments, Inc., Palo Alto, CA . The results are shown in Table 7. Of the anti Pseudomonas exotoxin antibody producing cell lines transformed by EB virus, the culture supernatant of FK 5A5 strongly neutralized the cytotoxicity by Pseudomonas exotoxin, while the culture supernatant of FK 001 showed weak neutralizing activity. Therapeutic effect of the antibody in mouse experimental Pseudomonas infection. A Millipore diffusion chamber Millipore Corporation, Bedford, MA,filter 0.45 µm pore size, outside diameter 14 mm, inside diameter 10 mm, thickness 2 mm filled with 10⁶ cells of Diagnostic use of human monoclonal anti Pseudomonas exotoxin antibody. Body specimens body fluid and tissue such as urine, spinal cord fluid, blood and sputum were isolated from patients suspected to be suffering from a bacterial infection, especially infection with This procedure permits a diagnosis of whether patients, from whom body specimen is isolated, are infected with exotoxin producing