# Recombinant dna cosmid shuttle vectors.

## Abstract
Novel recombinant DNA cosmid shuttle vectors, trans formed host cells, and a method of using the cosmid vectors in the construction of genomic DNA libraries are described. The vectors demonstrate the incorporation of both the size selection and in vitro packaging mechanisms of lambda into a Streptomyces E. coli shuttle vector.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A recombinant DNA cosmid shuttle vector which comprises a a replicon that is functional in E. coli, b a replicon that is functional in Streptomyces, c a DNA segment that contains two or more cos sequences of bacteriophage lambda, and d one or more DNA segments that convey resistance to at least one antibiotic when transformed into a sensitive re strictionless host cell. 2. A recombinant DNA cosmid shuttle vector as claimed in Claim 1 selected from pKC420, pKC427, pKC428, pKC448, pKC462, pKC467, pKC462A, pKC467A and coslil. 3. A recombinant DNA cosmid shuttle vector as claimed in claim 1 selected from pKC420, pKC427, pKC428, pKC448, pKC462 and pKC467. 4. Cosmid shuttle vector pKC420, pKC427, pKC428, pKC448, pKC462, or pKC467. 5. Cosmid shuttle vector pKC462A, pKC467A, or coslll. 6. A recombinant DNA cosmid shuttle vector as claimed in Claim 1 in which the E. coli replicon is selected from the replicon containing fragments of plasmids pBR322, pBR324, pBR325 and pBR328. 7. A recombinant DNA cosmid shuttle vector as claimed in Claim 1 in which the Streptomyces replicon is selected from the replicon containing fragments of plasmids SCP2, SCP2 , SLP1 and pEL103 and pFJ265. 8. A transformed host cell selected from a restrictionless Streptomyces and E. coli, said host cell comprising a recombinant DNA cosmid shuttle vector as claimed in claim 1. 9. A restrictionless Streptomyces or E. coli host cell transformed by a recombinant DNA cosmid shuttle vector as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6. 10. A host cell as claimed in claim 8 or 9 which is selected from Streptomyces ambofaciens,Streptomyces aureofaciens, Streptomyces cinnamonesis,Streptomyces fradiae, Streptomyces granuloruber, orStreptomyces lividans. 11. Streptomyces ambofaciens pKC420, Streptomyces ambofaciens pKC448, Streptomyces ambofaciens pKC462, Streptomyces fradiae pKC420, Streptomyces fradiae pKC448, Streptomyces fradiae pKC462, Streptomyces lividans pKC420, Streptomyces lividans pKC448, Streptomyces lividans pKC462, Streptomyces lividans pKC467,E. coli K12 SF8 pKC420, E. coli K12 SF8 pKC448, E. coliDHl pKC462, Streptomyces ambofaciens pKC462A, Streptomyces lividans coslll, E. coli K12 SF8 pKC462A, E. coliK12 SF8 pKC467A or E. coli K12 SF8 coslll. 12. A method for constructing a genomic DNA library, which comprises a ligating a genomic DNA segment into a cosmid shuttle vector as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 7 b packaging said ligated cosmid into bac teriophage lambda particles c transducing said packaged cosmid into E. coli and d transforming the recombinant cosmid into a Streptomyces host cell.

## Description
RECOMBINANT DNA COS.MID SHUTTLE VECTORS The present invention provides novel recombinant DNA cosmid shuttle vectors comprising replicons that are functional in Escherichia coli and Streptomyces, a DNA segment that contains two or more cos elements of bacteriophage lambda and one or more DNA segments that convey resistance to antibiotics. The invention further comprises transformants of these vectors. A method of using the cosmid shuttle vectors to construct genomic DNA libraries also is disclosed. Cosmids are vectors specifically designed for cloning large fragments of foreign DNA. These vectors are modified plasmids which contain a plasmid replicon, a selectable drug resistance marker and the lambda cos site. Due to their relatively small size and the presence of the lambda cos element, cosmids can accept inserts of up to 30 45 kilobases kb and utilize the lambda in vitro packaging system to positively select for large size inserts. These vectors, therefore, provide an efficient mechanism to introduce foreign DNA into bacterial cells. The present invention provides antibiotic resistance conferring bifunctional cosmid vectors for use in E. coli and Streptomyces host cells. Bifunctional constructions are particularly advantageous because amplification and manipulation of vectors can be performed faster and more conveniently in E. coli than in Streptomyces. Thus, after desired recombinant DNA procedures are accomplished within the E. coli host system, the particular plasmid DNA can be removed and then transformed into a Streptomyces host cell. It may also be possible to transfer directly the plasmid DNA to a Streptomyces host cell by means of a cell to cell fusion or phage particle to cell fusion. Gene cloning and expression of products in Streptomyces are highly desirable because the organism is substantially nonpathogenic and ordinarily does not produce endotoxins.Heretofore, the development and exploitation of recombinant DNA technology in the above organisms has been retarded and time consuming because of the general lack of efficient cloning systems available to accomodate large segments of DNA. The vectors of the present invention can accomodate large inserts of DNA, are functional as well as selectable in both Streptomyces and E. coli host strains and, therefore, represent a significant advance in the technical art. The present invention further provides cosmid cloning vectors which contain multiple lambda cos sites.The presence of multiple cos sites on a single vector eliminates the need to prepare separate cosmid arms.Consequently, the construction of genomic libraries is facilitated by the structural composition of the present vectors. The present invention also provides a convenient method to construct genomic DNA libraries using the cosmid shuttle vectors provided. Presently, there are three systems available for constructing a genomicDNA library transformation of a bacterial cell by plasmid DNA L. Clark and J. Carbon, 1976, Cell 9 91 transduction of a bacterial cell by lambda bacteriophage vectors Lawn et al., 1978, Cell 15 1157 and transduction of a bacterial cell by cosmid vectors Collins et al., 1978, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci., 75 4242 . However,A vectors are limited in their ability to accomodate DNA inserts of up to 20 kb. and large plasmids have low transformation efficiencies.Thus, the use of cosmid vectors to clone large DNA fragments is preferred over both plasmid and A bacteriophage vectors. There is a twofold advantage of using cosmid vectors to construct genomic libraries over plasmid or lambda bacteriophage vectors. First, the ability of a cosmid vector to accomodate large DNA inserts preserves the original linkage relationships of the inserted genome. This preservation is, however, dependent on the details of the cloning procedure and is independent of the cloning system. Since larger inserts cover the entire genome, statistically, in a limited number of colonies, the screening process is thereby reduced. Secondly, the relative ease of preparation of DNA confers a beneficial advantage to the present cosmid vectors. The specific advantage of the method according to the invention over known cosmid vectors is the ability of the present vectors to be grown and amplified in E. coli and then shuttled into Streptomyces host cells for subsequent functional analysis of the clonedDNA. The vectors are relatively small, versatile and can be transforaed and selected in any Streptomyces cell that is sensitive to an antibiotic for which resistance is conveyed and wherein the Streptomyces plasmid origin of replication is functional. Because more than seventy percent of naturally occurring antibiotics are produced by Streptomyces strains, it is desirable to develop cloning systems and vectors that are applicable to this industrially important group.The present invention provides such vectors and thus allows for the shuttling and cloning of genes into Streptomyces both for increasing the yields of known antibiotics as well as for the production of new antibiotics and antibiotic derivatives. The present invention provides vehicles for cloning DNA into Streptomyces host cells and also allows for the convenient selection of transformants. Since transformation is a very low frequency event, such a functional test is a practical necessity for determining which cell s , of among billions of cells, has acquired the plasmid DNA. This is important because the foreignDNA sequences that are themselves non selectable can be inserted into the vectors and, upon transformation, cells containing the vector and the particular DNA sequence of interest can be isolated by appropriate phenotypic selection. For purposes of the present invention as disclosed and claimed, the following terms are defined Recombinant DNA Cloning Vector any autonomously replicating agent, including but not limited to plasmids, comprising a DNA molecule to which one or more additional DNA segments can or have been added.Cosmid a plasmid carrying the ligated cohesive ends cos of bacteriophage as a result, the plasmid DNA can be packaged either in vitro in the phage coat or in vivo using suitable E. coli strains.cos sequence a cohesive end site comprising a 12 nucleotide sequence from bacteriophage lambda that is recognized by the lambda specific packaging proteins.Library a collection of cloned fragments of DNA, which together represent an entire genome. Restriction Fragment any linear DNA generated by the action of one or more restriction enzymes.Sensitive Host Cell a host cell that cannot grow in the presence of a given antibiotic without a DNA segment that confers resistance thereto.Transformation the introduction of DNA into a recipient host cell that changes the genotype and consequently results in a change in the recipient cell.Transformant a recipient host cell that has undergone transformation.E. coli Replicon a DNA sequence that controls and allows for replication of a plasmid or other vector inE. coli.Streptomyces Replicon a DNA sequence that controls and allows for replication of a plasmid or other vector inStreptomyces.ApR the ampicillin resistant phenotype.AmR the apramycin resistant phenotype.TsrR the thiostrepton resistant phenotype.NmR the neomycin resistant phenotype. The present invention provides a recombinantDNA cosmid shuttle vectors comprising a a replicon that is functional in E. coli, b a replicon that is functional in Streptomyces, c a DNA segment that contains two or more cos sequences of bacteriophage lambda, and d one or more DNA segments that convey resistance to at least one antibiotic when transformed into a sensitive re strictionless host cell. The invention further comprises transformants of the aforementioned vectors. Vectors of the present invention represent novel hybrids between a Streptomyces vector and a cosmid.For example, cosmid vector pKC420 can replicate autonomously in Streptomyces and in E. coli since it contains replicons from both organisms. In addition, selectable markers are present for both organisms AIR in E. coli and AmR in both E. coli and Streptomyces providing a convenient means to select transformants. Furthermore, the bacteriophage lambda cos sequences allow the new vector to be packaged in vitro and transformed into E.coli. The recombinant plasmids then can be used to transform Streptomyces host cells. Thus, given the presence of A cos sequences in the present shuttle vectors, the cloning advantages inherent to cosmid vectors are now applicable to Streptomyces. Cosmid shuttle vector pKC420 is approximately 10.6 kb and contains several restriction sites which are particularly advantageous for molecular cloning. Cosmid pKC420 can be isolated conventionally from E. coli K12DHl pKC420, a constructed strain deposited and made part of the stock culture collection of the Northern RegionalResearch Laboratory, Peoria, Illinois 61604. It is available to the public as a source and stock reservoir of the cosmid under the accession number NRRL B 15837.A detailed restriction site and functional map of cosmid pKC420 is presented in Fig. 1 of the accompanying drawings. For purposes of the present application,Fig. 1 and all subsequent figures are not drawn to scale. Cosmid pKC420, useful directly as a cloning vector, also can be used to construct derivative vectors within the scope of the present invention. Cosmid pKC420 can be restricted and ligated to one or more antibiotic resistance conferring DNA fragments, exemplified herein for illustrative purposes by the thiostrepton resistance conferring Nl kb BclI restriction fragment of plasmid pIJ702 ATCC 39155 , the Tn903 neomycin resistance conferring 1.5 kb EcoRI restriction fragment of plasmid pUC4K NRRL B 15836 , and the TnS neomycin resistance conferring 1.5 kb HindIII SalI restriction fragment of plasmid pKC7 ATCC 37084 , to form vectors illustrative of the present invention.Plasmids pIJ702 and pKC7 can be isolated from strains deposited and made part of the stock culture collection of the American Type Culture Collection, Rockville, Maryland 20852, and are available to the public as a source and stock reservoir of their plasmids under the accession numbers ATCC 39155 and 37084, respectively.Plasmid pUC4K, the source of the neomycin resistance conferring fragment, is a strain deposited and made part of the stock culture collection of the Northern RegionalResearch Laboratory, Peoria, Illinois 61604 and is available to the public as a source and stock reservoir of the plasmid under the accession number NRRL B 15836. For convenience and ease of construction, the thiostrepton resistance conferring 1 kb BclI fragment is inserted into cosmid pKC420 at the unique BamHI restriction site. The resulting recombinant DNA then is ligated to produce cosmids illustrative of the present invention. Phenotypically desired recombinant plasmids of two orientations result depending upon the orientation of the inserted DNA fragment. Thus, the insertion of the 1 kb BclI restriction fragment into cosmid pKC420 results in illustrative cosmids pKC427 and pKC427A. Various cosmid pKC420 restriction sites can be used for the insertion of DNA segments provided that the replicons, selectable markers and other necessary plasmid functions are not disrupted. Those skilled in the art understand or can determine readily which sites are advantageous for the ligation or insertion of a particular DNA segment. Although the thiostrepton and neomycin antibiotic resistance conferring DNA segments are, for illustrative purposes, respectfully exemplified by the 1 kb BclI restriction fragment of pIJ702, the 1.5 kb EcoRI restriction fragment of plasmid pUC4K, and the 1.5 kb HindIII SalI restriction fragment of plasmid pKC7, those skilled in the art can construct and substitute, either individually or in combination, otherDNA segments that also confer resistance to the aforementioned antibiotics. Other thiostrepton resistance conferring DNA segments include, for example, the 1.6 kb BamHI restriction fragment of plasmid pLR2.Other neomycin resistance conferring DNA segments include, for example, the 3.5 kb PstI restriction fragment and the 3.4 kb BamHI restriction fragment of plasmid pLRl. Plasmids pLR2 and pLR1 are constructed in accordance with U.S. Patent No. 4,416,994 and the constructions are incorporated herein by reference. Additional DNA segments conferring resistance to the above or to different antibiotics such as, for example, hygromycin, chloramphenicol, streptomycin, viomycin, tylosin, erythromycin, and the like also can be constructed and used for purposes of the present invention. Moreover, various functional derivatives of the above described antibiotic resistance conferring DNA segments can be constructed by adding, eliminating, or substituting nucleotides in accordance with the genetic code. Those skilled in the art will understand that ligation of these, or any other antibiotic resistance conferring DNA segments, with cosmid pKC420 DNA, results in cosmid shuttle vectors that are within the scope of the present invention. Cosmid pKC420 and any cosmids derived therefrom, as well as the antibiotic resistance conferring DNA segments, can be conveniently modified to facilitate subsequent ligation. For example, the addition of anEcoRI molecular linker with EcoRI BamHI EcoRI sites to cosmid pKC427 provides for the construction of a specific restriction site, such as, for example, a BamHI restriction site, that is useful for ligation or for other purposes known in the art. Moreover, the various restriction fragments also can be modified by adding, eliminating, or substituting nucleotides to alter characteristics and to provide a variety of unique or additional restriction sites. Those skilled in the art understand nucleotide chemistry and the genetic code and thus which nucleotides are interchangeable and which DNA modifications are desirable for a specific purpose. The present vectors are not limited to the use of a specific replicon from an E. coli or Streptomyces plasmid. Although the E. coli functional replicon exemplified in the present cosmid vectors is from plasmid pBR322, other E. coli replicon containing fragments can be obtained from, for example, plasmids pBR324 and pBR325 disclosed in Bolivar, F., 1978,Gene 4 121 , plasmid pBR328 disclosed in Soberon, X., 1980, Gene 9 287 , or the like, to produce novel bifunctional cosmids. Additionally, other Streptomyces replicon containing fragments can be substituted for the Streptomyces replicon. These replicon containing fragments include, but are not limited to, replicons from plasmids SCP2 and SCP2 disclosed in Bibb andHopwood, 1981, J. Gen. Microbiol. 126 427 , SLP1 disclosed in Bibb, M.J., 1981, Mol. Gen.Genet. 184 230 , pEL103 NRRL 12549 , pFJ265 disclosed in Jones, M.D., et al., 1984, Plasmid 11 92 and pHJL210 NRRL B 15824 .Those skilled in the art will understand that ligation of these, or other E. coli or Streptomyces replicon containing fragments, results in cosmid shuttle vectors that are within the scope of the present invention. The recombinant DNA cosmid shuttle vectors of the present invention are not limited for use in a single species or strain of Streptomyces. To the contrary, the vectors are broadly applicable and can be transformed into host cells of many Streptomyces taxa, particularly restrictionless strains of economically important taxa that produce antibiotics such as aminoglycoside, macrolide, p lactam, polyether, and glycopeptide antibiotics. Such restrictionless strains are selected and isolated readily from Streptomyces taxa by conventional procedures well known in the art. Lomovskaya et al., 1980, Microbiological Reviews 44 206 . Host cells of restrictionless strains lack restriction enzymes and, therefore, do not cut or degrade plasmid DNA upon transformation. For purposes of the present application, host cells containing restriction enzymes that do not cut any of the restriction sites of the present recombinant cosmids also are considered restrictionless. Preferred host cells of restrictionless strains of Streptomyces taxa that produce aminoglycoside antibiotics and in which the present vectors are especially useful and can be transformed, include restrictionless cells of, for example Streptomyces kanamyceticus kanamycins , S. chrestomyceticus aminosidine , S. griseoflavus antibiotic MA 1267 , S. microsporeus antibiotic SF 767 , S. ribosidificus antibiotic SF733 , S. flavopersicus spectinomycin ,S. spectabilis actinospectacin , S. rimosus forma paromomycinus paromomycins, catenulin , S. fradiae var. italicus aminosidine , S. bluensis var. bluensis bluensomycin , S. catenulae catenulin , S. olivoreticuli var. cellulophilus destomycin A , S.lavendulae neomycin , S. albogriseolus neomycins ,S. albus var. metamycinus metamycin , S. hygroscopicus var. sagamiensis spectinomycin , S. bikiniensis streptomycin , S. griseus streptomycin , S. erythrochromogenes var. narutoensis streptomycin , S.poolensis streptomycin , S. galbus streptomycin ,S. rameus streptomycin , S. olivaceus streptomycin ,S. mashuensis streptomycin , S. hygroscopicus var.limoneus validamycins , S. rimofaciens destomycins ,S. hygroscopicus forma glebosus glebomycin , S. fradiae hybrimycins neomycins , S. eurocidicus antibioticA16316 C , S. aquacanus N methyl hygromycin B ,S. crystallinus hygromycin A , S. noboritoensis hygromycin , S. hygroscopicus hygromycins , S.atrofaciens hygromycin , S. kasugaspinus kasugamycins , S. kasugaensis kasugamycins , S. netropsis antibiotic LL AM31 , S. lividus lividomycins , S.hofuensis seldomycin complex , and S. canus ribosyl paromamine . Preferred host cells of restrictionless strains of Streptomyces taxa that produce macrolide antibiotics and in which the present vectors are especially useful and can be transformed, include restrictionless cells of, for example Streptomyces caelestis antibiotic M188 , S. platensis platenomycin , S. rochei var. volubilis antibioticT2636 , S. venezuelae methymycins , S. narbonensis josamycin, narbomycin , S. fungicidicus antibioticNA 181 , S. griseofaciens antibiotic PA133A, B , S.roseocitreus albocycline , S. bruneogriseus albocycline , S. roseochromo genes albocycline , S cinerochromogenes cineromycin B , S. albus albomycetin , S. felleus argomycin, picromycin , S. rochei lankacidin, borrelidin , S. violaceoniger lankacidin ,S. griseus borrelidin , S. maizeus ingramycin , S. albus var. coilmyceticus coleimycin , S. mycarofaciens acetyl leukomycin, espinomycin , S. hygroscopicus turimycin, relomycin, maridomycin, tylosin, carbomycin , S. griseospiralis relomycin , S. lavendulae aldgamycin , S. rimosus neutramycin , S. deltae deltamycins , S. fungicidicus var. espinomyceticus espinomycins , S. furdicidicus mydecamycin ,S. ambofaciens foromacidin D , S. eurocidicus methymycin , S. griseolus griseomycin , S. flavochromogenes amaromycin, shincomycins , S. fimbriatus amaromycin , S. fasciculus amaromycin , S. erythreus erythromycins , S. antibioticus oleandomycin , S.olivochromogenes oleandomycin , S. spinichromogenes var. suragaoensis kujimycins , S. kitasatoensis leucomycin , S. narbonensis var. josamyceticus leucomycin A3, josamycin , S. albogriseolus mikonomycin , S. bikiniensis chalcomycin , S. cirratus cirramycin ,S. djakartensis niddamycin , S. eurythermus angolamycin , S. fradiae tylosin, lactenocin, macrocin , S.goshikiensis bandamycin , S. griseoflavus acumycin ,S. halstedii carbomycin , S. tendae carbomycin , S.macrosporeus carbomycin , S. thermotolerans carbomycin , and S. albireticuli carbomycin . Preferred host cells of restrictionless strains of Streptomyces taxa that produce ss lactam antibiotics and in which the present vectors are especially useful and can be transformed, include restrictionless cells of, for example Streptomyces lipmanii A16884, MM4550, MM13902 , S. clavuligerus A16886B, clavulanic acid , S. lactamdurans cephamycinC , S. griseus cephamycin A, B , S. hygroscopicus deacetoxycephalosporin C , S. wadayamensis WS 3442 D ,S. chartreusis SF 1623 , S. heteromorphus and S. panayensis C2081X S. cinnamonensis, S. fimbriatus, S.halstedii, S. rochei and S. viridochromogenes cephamycins A, B S. cattleya thienamycin and S. olivaceus, S. flavovirens, S. flavus, S. fulvoviridis, S.argenteolus, and S. sioyaensis MM 4550 and MM 13902 . Preferred host cells of restrictionless strains of Streptomyces taxa that produce polyether antibiotics and in which the present vectors are especially useful and can be transformed, include restrictionless cells of, for example Streptomyces albus A204, A28695A and B, salinomycin , S.scopicus A218, emericid, DE3936 , A120A, A28695A andB, etheromycin, dianemycin , S. griseus grisorixin , S. conglobatus ionomycin , S. eurocidicus var. asterocidicus laidlomycin , S. lasaliensis lasalocid ,S. ribosidificus lonomycin , S. cacaoi var. asoensis lysocellin , S. cinnamonensis monensin , S. aureofaciens narasin , S. gallinarius RP 30504 , S. longwoodensis lysocellin , S. flaveolus CP38936 , S.mutabilis S 11743a , and S. violaceoniger nigericin . Preferred host cells of restrictionless strains of Streptomyces taxa that produce glycopeptide antibiotics and in which the present vectors are especially useful and can be transformed, include restrictionless cells of, for example Streptomyces orientalis and S. haranomachiensis vancomycin S.candidus A 35512, avoparcin , S. eburosporeus LL AM 374 , and S. toyocaensis A47934 . Preferred host cells of other Streptomyces restrictionless strains in which the present vectors are especially useful and can be transformed, include restrictionless cells of, for example Streptomyces coelicolor, S. granuloruber, S. roseosporus, S.lividans, S. tenebrarius, S. acrimycins, S. glaucescens,S. parvilin, S. pristinaespiralis, S. violaceoruber, S.vinaceus, S. virginiae, S. espinosus, and S. azureus. In addition to the representative Streptomyces host cells described above, the present vectors are also useful and can be transformed into cells of restrictionless strains of other taxa such as, for example Bacillus, Staphylococcus and related Actinomycetes, including Streptosporangium, Actinoplanes,Nocardia, and Micromonospora. Thus, the vectors of the present invention have wide application, are useful in and can be transformed into host cells of a variety of organisms. While all the embodiments of the present invention are useful, some of the present recombinantDNA cloning vectors and transformants are preferred.Accordingly, preferred vectors are cosmids pKC420, pKC427, pKC428, pKC448, pKC462A, and pKC467 and preferred transformants are Streptomyces ambofaciens pKC420, S. ambofaciens pKC427, S. ambofaciens pKC428,S. ambofaciens pKC448, S. ambofaciens pKC462A, S.ambofaciens pKC467, E. coli K12 SF8 pKC420, E. coli K12SF8 pKC427, E. coli K12 SF8 pKC428, E. coli K12SF8 pKC448, E. coli SF8 pKC462A and E. coli K12SF8 pKC467. Moreover, of this preferred group, cosmids pKC420, pKC462A, and pKC467, and transformants S. ambofaciens pKC420, S. ambofaciens pKC462A, S. ambofaciens pKC467, E. coli K12 SF8 pKC420, E. coli K12 SF8 pKC462A, and E. coli K12 SF8 pKC467 are most preferred. The recombinant DNA cloning vectors and transformants of the present invention have broad utility and help fill the need for suitable cloning vehicles for use in Streptomyces and related organisms.Moreover, the ability of the present vectors to confer resistance to antibiotics that are toxic to non transformed host cells, also provides a functional means for selecting transformants. This is important because of the practical necessity for determining and selecting the particular cells that have acquired vector DNA.Additional DNA segments, that lack functional tests for their presence, can also be inserted in the present vectors and then transformants containing the nonselectable DNA can be isolated by appropriate antibiotic selection. Such non selectable DNA segments can be inserted at any site, except within regions necessary for plasmid function, maintainance, and replication, and include, but are not limited to, genes that specify antibiotic modification enzymes, antibiotic resistance, antibiotic biosynthesis, and regulatory genes of all types. The present invention further comprises a novel method for using the aforedefined recombinant DNA cosmid shuttle vectors to construct a genomic DNA library, said method comprising a ligating a genomic DNA segment into a cosmid shuttle vector, as defined earlier b packaging said ligated cosmid into bac teriophage lambda particles, c transducing said packaged cosmid into E. coli, and d transforming the recombinant cosmid into a Streptomyces host cell. More particularly and with reference toFigure 2, cosmid pKC420 DNA was digested with PvuII restriction enzyme to generate a linear fragment with blunt ends. These blunt ends were then dephosphorylated with bacterial alkaline phosphatase BAP to prevent their ligation in subsequent reactions. After extraction and precipitation, the DNA was digested with BamHI restriction enzyme to generate two DNA fragments of unequal length, each fragment consisting of a cos site flanked by a reactive BamHI end and a non reactive PvuII end. The DNA was extracted, precipitated and then dissolved in TE buffer for subsequent ligation to the insert DNA fragments. Although the preferred embodiment of the method of this invention employs cosmid pKC420, it is apparent that any one of the following cosmids may be used to construct genomic libraries pKC427, pKC428, pKC448, pKC462, pKC462A, or pKC467. Foreign DNA, such as, for example, Streptomyces felleus DNA NRRL 2251 was partially digested with a restriction enzyme, such as MboI or Sau3A, to generate a size range average size of 40 kb of S. felleus DNA fragments. These fragments subsequently were treated with BAP to prevent any MboI generated ends from ligating to each other. Thus, the only allowed ligation was between the MboI ends of the insert DNA and the compatible BamHI ends of the cosmidDNA. The resultant hybrid DNA molecules served as substrates for in vitro packaging of bacteriophage lambda particles. Due to the size selection mechanism of lambda packaging, only those cosmid insert DNA molecules in which the cos sequences are 37 to 52 kb apart were packaged. Because lambda packaging requires two cos sites, one to initiate and another to terminate packaging and is also size selective, large inserts were positively selected in the transductants.After the desired recombinant DNA procedures were accomplished within the E. coli host system, the particular recombi nant plasmid DNA was isolated and then transformed into a suitable Streptomyces host. The method of the present invention enhances both the efficiency and effectiveness of cosmid cloning given the specific construction of these novel cosmid vectors. For example, the presence of two or more cos sites in cosmid pKC420 eliminates the need to prepare separately two cosmid arms. Secondly, the presence of blunt end restriction enzyme sites such as the PvuII andHpaI sites within the multiple cos site region prevents subsequent cosmid concatemerization between the prepared cosmid arms. Ultimately, given the bifunctionality of the present vectors, the cloned DNA can be shuttled into a Streptomyces host cell for functional analysis of the cloned DNA. This shuttling capability is particularly advantageous over known cosmid vehicles because Streptomyces cosmid vectors have yet to be exploited. Escherichia coli K12 DHl pKC420, as a source of cosmid vector pKC420 NRRL B 15837 and E. coli K12SF8 pKC462A, as a source of cosmid vector pKC462A NRRLB 15973 , can be cultured in a number of ways using any of several different media. Carbohydrate sources which are preferred in a culture medium include, for example, glucose and glycerol, and nitrogen sources include, for example, ammonium salts, amino acid mixtures, and peptones. Nutrient inorganic salts also are incorporated and include the customary salts capable of yielding magnesium, sodium, potassium, ammonia, calcium, phosphate, chloride, sulfate, and like ions. As is necessary for the growth and development of other microorganisms, essential trace elements also are added.Such trace elements commonly are supplied as impurities incidental to the addition of other constituents of the medium. E. coli K12 DHl pKC420 and E. coli K12 SF8 pKC462A were grown under aerobic culture conditions over a relatively wide pH range of about 6.5 to 7.4 at temperatures ranging from about 300 to 420C. For the production of the cosmid vectors pKC420 and pKC462A in the greatest quantity, however, it is desirable to start with a culture medium at a pH of about 7.4 and maintain a culture temperature of about 370C. Culturing the E.coli cells under the aforementioned conditions resulted in a reservoir of cells from which cosmids pKC420 and pKC462A were isolated by techniques well known in the art. Brief Description of the Figures Fig. 1 shows the restriction site and function map of cosmid pKC420. Fig. 2 is a schematic outline of the method of constructing genomic DNA libraries using cosmid vector pKC420 and Streptomyces DNA. Fig. 3 is a restriction site and function map of cosmid pKC427. Fig. 4 is a restriction site and function map of cosmid pKC42S. Fig. 5 is a restriction site and function map of cosmid pKC448. Fig. 6 is a restriction site and function map of cosmid pKC462. Fig. 7 is a restriction site and function map of cosmid pKC467. Fig. 8 is a restriction site and function map of cosmid pKC462A. Fig. 9 is a restriction site and function map of plasmid pOJ108. Fig. 10 is a restriction site and function map of plasmid pOJlll. Fig. 11 is a restriction site and function map of cosmid coslll. The following non limiting examples further illustrate and detail the invention disclosed. Both an explanation of and the actual procedures for constructing the invention are described where appropriate. Example 1Culture of E. coli K12 DHI pKC420 and Isolation ofCosmid pKC420A. Culture 5 ml. cultures of E. coli K12 DHl pKC420 NRRLB 15837 were grown under selective conditions in Ty media 1 tryptone, .5 yeast extract, 5 sodium chloride, pH 7.4 according to conventional microbiological procedures. The cells were spun in a table top centrifuge and the pellet resuspended in 1 ml. of 0.3M sucrose, 25 mM EDTA ethylenediaminetetracetic acid and 25 mM Tris HCl pH 8 Solution I . After transfer to an Eppendorf tube the cells were centrifuged for about one minute and the pellet was resuspended in 0.5 ml. of Solution I. About 50 ijl. of freshly made lysozyme 20 mg. ml. in water was added and the solution was incubated for 10 minutes at 370C. After the addition of 250 p1. of freshly made lysis mix 2 sodium dodecyl sulfate and 0.3N NaOH , the cells were immediately and completely vortexed. The cells were then incubated for ten minutes at 500C., cooled and added to 100 pl. of phenol Sevag phenolchloroform isoamyl alcohol, 25 24 1 . After the DNA was centrifuged for two minutes in an Eppendorf centrifuge, the supernatant was decanted and transferred to another tube with 70 p1. of unbuffered 3M sodium acetate and isopropanol to precipitate the DNA. This solution was incubated for five minutes at room temperature and then centrifuged for two minutes. The supernatant was gently and completely decanted to remove all the excess liquid. The DNA precipitate was redissolved in 500 p1.of TE 10 mM Tris HCl pH 8 and 1 mM EDTA and 10 p1. of 100 mM Spermine HC1 was added. This mixture was vortexed and then incubated for five minutes at room temperature before a five minute spin in an Eppendorf centrifuge. The supernatant was again completely decanted and discarded and the precipitated DNA was vortexed with 1 ml. of 75 ethanol, 0.3M sodium acetate, and 10 mM magnesium acetate. This solution was incubated for five minutes at room temperature and theDNA collected as above. The pellet was redissolved in 10 pl. of TE for subsequent use as a cloning vehicle. Example 2Construction of Cosmid Shuttle Vector pKC427A. BamHI Digestion of Cosmid pKC420 About 5 pg. of cosmid pKC420 were digested in 1X BamHI buffer 150 mM NaCl, 6 mM Tris HCl pH 7.9, 6 mM MgC12 and 1 mM Dithiothreitol in a total volume of 50 pl. with 20 units New England Biolab of BamHI restriction endonuclease . The mixture was incubated at 370C. for about 1 hour and then the reaction was terminated by incubation at 700C. for 10 minutes. Since cosmid pKC420 has a single BamHI site, digestion is easily monitored by agarose gel electrophoresis. The appearance of a single band of about 10 kb signals complete digestion. The DNA was extracted with phenol and Sevag chloroform isoamyl alcohol 24 1 , precipitated with ethanol, dried and then resuspended in TE for subsequent ligation. Restriction enzymes and instructions can be obtained from the following sources New England Bio Labs., Inc., 32 Tozer Road, Beverly, Massachusetts 01915 Bethesda Research Laboratories, Inc., P.O. Box 577, Gaithersburg, Maryland 20760 Boehringer Mannheim Biochemicals, P.O. Box 50816, Indianapolis, Indiana 46250 B. BclI Digestion of Plasmid pIJ702 About 5 pg. of plasmid pIJ702 DNA ATCC 39155 were digested in 1X BclI buffer 75 mM KC1, 6 mM Tris HCl pH 7.4, 10 mM MgC12 and 1 mM Dithiothreitol in a total volume of 50 pl. with 10 units New EnglandBiolab of BclI restriction endonuclease.The mixture was incubated at 500C. for about an hour and then the reaction was terminated by extraction with phenol andSevag, precipitated with ethanol, dried and then dissolved in 5 pl. TE. The DNA was electrophoresed on a 0.5 agarose gel until the desired 1 kb BclI fragment was separated from other fragments. Whatman DEAE cellulose paper was placed in a slit prepared ahead of the desiredDNA band and the DNA was electrophoresed onto the DEAE paper. The paper was washed with 1 ml. of TE and theDNA was eluted with 400 pl. of TE adjusted to 1M by the addition of an appropriate volume of NaCl. The elutedDNA was ethanol precipitated and finally dissolved in 5 pl. of TE.C. Ligation and Construction of E. coli K12 SF8 pKC427 About 1 pg. each of BamHI digested cosmid pKC420 DNA and the 1 kb BclI thiostrepton resistanceconferring fragment were ligated in 20 pl. of 1X ligase buffer 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.8, 10 mM MgC12, 20 mMDithiothreitol and 1 mM ATP with 400 units of T4 DNA ligase for 16 hours at 160C. The reaction was terminated by incubation at 70 C. for 10 minutes. After cooling on ice, the resultant ligated DNA was used to transform E. coli K12 SF8 NRRL B 15835 according to the procedure of Maniatis et al., 1982, MolecularCloning, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold SpringHarbor, New York.The identity of the desired transformants was conventionally confirmed by screening for the loss of the BamHI site and the acquisition of aSalI site. Competent cells were stored in 20 glycerol, instead of dimethyl sulfoxide, at 700C. The resultant E. coli K12 SF8 pKC427 transformants were conventionally cultured for subsequent production and isolation of cosmid pKC427. A restriction site and function map of cosmid pKC427 is presented in Figure 3 of the accompanying drawings. T4 DNA ligase can be obtained from the same sources as those identified for restriction enzymes. Example 3Construction of Cosmid Shuttle Vector pKC428A. EcoRI Digestion of Cosmid pKC427 About 5 pg. of cosmid pKC427 DNA were digested in 1X EcoRI buffer 50 mM NaCl, 100 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5, 5 mM MgC12 and 1 mM Dithiothreitol in a total volume of 50 pl. with 20 units New England Biolab of EcoRI restriction endonuclease. The mixture was incubated at 37 C. for about 1 hour and then the reaction was terminated by incubation at 700C. for 10 minutes. Since cosmid pKC427 contains a unique EcoRI site, an EcoRI digestion generates a single linear fragment.B. EcoRI Digestion of Plasmid pUC4K and Isolation of the 1.5 kb EcoRI Neomycin Resistance Conferring Gene The desired digestion was carried out in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 3A except that plasmid pUC4K NRRL B 15836 DNA, rather than cosmid pKC427 DNA, was used. The isolation of the 1.5 kb EcoRI fragment was carried out in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 2B.C. Ligation and Construction of E. coli K12 SF8 pKC428 The ligation and subsequent transformation procedures were carried out in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 2C. The identity of the desired transformants was conventionally confirmed by initially selecting for AmR phenotype and then replicating those AmR colonies to select for neomycin resistant colonies. These colonies were additionally screened for the acquisition of BamHI and SalI restriction sites. A restriction site and function map of cosmid pKC428 is presented in Figure 4 of the accompanying drawings. Example 4Construction of Cosmid Shuttle Vector pKC448A. BamHI Digestion of Cosmid pKC428 and SubsequentLigation Cosmid pKC448 was constructed by deleting aBamHI fragment from cosmid pKC428. The desired BamHI digestion was carried out in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 2A except that cosmid pKC428 DNA was used in place of cosmid pKC420 DNA. The resulting fragments were recovered and self ligated in substantial accordance with the teaching of Examples 2B and 2C.This digestion results in the removal of the neomycin resistance conferring gene and generates a unique BamHI site flanked by two EcoRI sites. A restriction site and function map of cosmid pKC448 is presented in Figure 5 of the accompanying drawings. Example 5Construction of Cosmid pKC462A. HindIII and SalI Digestion of Cosmid pKC448 About 10 pg. of cosmid pKC448 were digested in 100 pl. of buffer 150 mM NaCl, 6 mM Tris HCl pH 7.9, 6 mM MgC12 and 1 mM Dithiothreitol with 20 units each ofHindIII and SalI restriction enzymes for 2 hours at 370C. The DNA was ethanol precipitated and then resuspended in 20 p1. of TE.B. Digestion of Plasmid pKC7 DNA and Isolation of the Neomycin Resistance Conferring Gene The desired digestion and isolation of the 1.5 kb HindIII SalI fragment is carried out in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 5A except that plasmid pKC7 ATCC 37084 is used in place of cosmid pKC448.C. Ligation and Construction of E. coli DHl pKC462 The ligation and subsequent transformation procedures were carried out in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 2C except that E. coli DHl NRRL B 15021 was used in place of E. coli K12 SF8. In addition, cosmid pKC462 DNA was used in place of cosmid pKC427 DNA. The identity of the desired transformants was conventionally confirmed by initially selecting for AmR phenotype and then replicating those R phenotype and then replicating those Am colonies to select for neomycin resistant colonies. A restriction site and function map of cosmid pKC462 is presented inFigure 6 of the accompanying drawings. Example 6Construction of E. coli K12 SF8 pKC448 The desired construction was made, selected, and recovered in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 2C except that cosmid pKC448 DNA was used in place of cosmid pKC427 DNA. The identified transformants were then used for subsequent production and isolation of cosmid pKC448 according to the teaching of Example 1. Example 7Construction of Streptomyces ambofacienspKC42o and S. ambofaciens pKC448 About 1 pg. each of the DNA from Examples 1 and 6 and 200 pl. of protoplasts of Streptomyces ambofaciens, a strain deposited and made part of the permanent stock culture collection of the NorthernRegional Research Laboratories, Peoria, Illinois, from which it is available to the public under the accession number NRRL 2420, were mixed with 500 pl. of 55 polyethylene glycol Sigma in P medium Hopwood and Wright, 1978, Molecular and General Genetics 162 307 , vortexed, and then aliquots of 25 p1. and 250 pl. were plated ontoR2YE plates with 3 ml. of R2YE top agar. The plates were incubated for 18 hours at 300C. and then overlayed with 3 ml. of R2YE top agar containing sufficient apramycin for a final concentration of 50 pg. ml. The plates were then incubated for an additional 3 days at 300C. The resultant S. ambofaciensvpKC420 and S.ambofaciens pKC448 apramycin resistant colonies were isolated according to known procedures, cultured, and then conventionally identified by restriction enzyme and agarose gel electrophoretic analysis of their constitutive cosmids Maniatis et al., 1982 . R2YE medium was prepared with the following com position per liter Sucrose 103 g. 2.5 K2S04 10 ml. MgCl2 10.1 g. Glucose lO g. Casamino acid0.1 g. Agar 22 g. Trace Element Mix 2 ml. 0.5 KH2PO4 10 ml. 1M CaCl2 20 ml. Proline 3 g. 0.25M TES pH 7.2 100 ml. 10 Yeast extract 50 ml. Antibiotic apramycin can be obtained from either Sigma, St. Louis, Missouri or Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana. Example 8The Construction of a Genomic LibraryA. Preparation of the Vector pKC420 DNA About 50 pg. of cosmid pKC420 DNA were digested in 500 p1. of 1X PvuII 60 mM NaCl, 6 mMTris HCl pH 7.5, 6 mM MgC12 and 1 mM Dithiothreitol buffer with 100 units of PvuII restriction enzyme for 3 hours at 370C. About 50 p1. of 10X BAP buffer 500 mMTris HCl pH 8 and 500 mM NaC1 and 2.5 units of BAP International Biotechnologies, Inc., P.O. Box 1565, NewHaven, CT 06506 were added and incubated for 1 hour at 700C. The DNA was extracted with, phenol, Sevag and precipitated with ethanol. The DNA was then digested in 500 pl. of 1X BamHI buffer with 90 units of BamHI restriction enzyme for 3 hours at 370C.The DNA was again extracted with phenol, Sevag, precipitated with ethanol and finally dissolved in 50 pl. of TE. B. Preparation of the Insert DNA Streptomyces felleus NRRL 2251 was grown in 250 ml. of Tryptic Soy broth supplemented with 100 pg. ml. of spiramycin for 16 hours at 300C. The cells were harvested by centrifugation 10 minutes at 8,000 rpm suspended in 10 ml. of lysis mix 300 mMSucrose, 25 mM Tris HCl pH 8, and 25 mM EDTA and brought to a final concentration of 1 mg. ml. with lysozyme and incubated at 370C. for 10 minutes. Then proteinase K was added to a final concentration of 200 pg. ml. and SDS sodium dodecyl sulfate was added to a final concentration of 2 . The mixture was incubated at 700C. for 10 minutes and then cooled on ice. The mixture was made 1M in potassium acetate and left on ice for 30 minutes. After gently extracting the material with TE saturated phenol, the layers were separated and the aqueous layer was gently extracted with Sevag.Layers were again separated and the nucleic acids in the aqueous layer were precipitated with ethanol. The precipitate was washed with 70 ethanol and then dissolved in 5 ml. TE. RNase A was added to the DNA solution to a final concentration of 50 pg. ml.This solution was then incubated at 370C. for 30 minutes, extracted twice with phenol, twice with Sevag and then precipitated with ethanol. The DNA was redissolved in 1 ml. TE 545 pg. ml. and then sized on a 0.3 agarose gel with A standards and was found to have an average size of 70 kb. Next, 50 pg. of Streptomyces felleus chromosomal DNA were incubated with 30 units of MboI in 500 pl. of 1X MboI buffer 100 mM NaC1, 10 mM Tris HCl pH 7.4, 10 mM MgC12, and 1 mM DTT at 370C. for 15 minutes. This particular condition was found, empirically, to give the desired partial fragmentation of chromosomal DNA. The DNA was extracted with phenol,Sevag and then dissolved in 50 pl. of TE. About 25 ijg. of Streptomyces felleus MboI partials were subsequently treated with BAP 1.25 units for the first 1 hour at 700C., and then an additional 1.25 units for another hour at 700C. in 100 p1. of 1XBAP buffer. The DNA was extracted with phenol, Sevag, precipitated with ethanol and then dissolved in 50 ijl. of TE. The size of this DNA was estimated on a 0.3 agarose gel and was found to be 30 40 kb. Antibiotic spiramycin can be obtained from Sigma, St. Louis, Missouri. C. Ligation of the Vector DNA to the Insert DNA About 125 ng. of the pKC420 arms prepared inExample 8A were mixed with 500 ng. of Streptomyces felleus MboI partials prepared in Example 8B and ligated with 400 units New England Biolabs of T4 DNA ligase in 20 coil. of 1X ligase buffer made 1 mM in ATP.Ligation was performed for 16 hours at 160C. and then terminated by heating for 10 minutes at 700C.D. In Vitro Packaging Packaging was performed by adding about 10 p1.of the ligation mixture 62.5 ng. of hybrid vector DNA to Biotec packaging kit at 300C. for 1 hour. To this mixture, about 500 pi. of 0.1M NaCl, 0.01M Tris HCl pH 8, and 0.01M MgSO4 were added. Lastly, 25 p1. of chloroform were added to kill any living bacteria. Promega Biotec, 2800 S. Fish Hatchery Road, Madison, WI 53711.E. Transduction of E. coli K12 SF8 About 200 p1. of packaged cosmids 25 ng. of vector DNA were adsorbed to 500 pl. of E. coli strainK12 SF8 grown in Tryptone yeast extract supplemented with 0.2 maltose and 10 mM magnesium sulfate. Adsorption was performed for 10 minutes at 370C in 10mM Tris pH 8.0 and 10mM MgSO4. The cells were grown in 5 ml.Of Tryptone yeast extract for three hours at room tem perature and transductants were selected at 300C. on plates supplemented with 200 pg. ml. of apramycin.Approximately 400 colonies resulted from the plating of 0.1 ml. of transduced cells giving rise to a transducing efficiency of about 1.2 x 106 transductants per microgram.F. Transformation into Streptomyces ambofaciens The desired transformation was performed in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 7.About 3.4 x 104 transformants per 1 pg. of E. coli grown pKC420 were obtained in this experiment. Example 9Construction of Cosmid pKC467A. XbaI Digestion of Cosmid pKC462 About 25 pg. of cosmid pKC462 are digested with 200 units of XbaI restriction enzyme in 100 pl. ofIX XbaI buffer 50 mM NaCl, 100 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5, 5 mM MgC12 and 1 mM Dithiothreitol . The mixture is incubated at 370C. for about 1 hour and then the reaction is terminated by incubation at 700C. for 10 minutes. The digested DNA is electrophoresed on a 0.5 agarose gel International Biotech, Inc. and then the large fragment is isolated on DEAE paper. The isolatedDNA is eluted with 400 pl. TE and 1M NaCl and then ethanol precipitated. The DNA is resuspended in 20 pl. TE for subsequent ligation. B. Ligation and Construction of E. coli K12 SF8 pKC467 About 3 pi. 1.5 pg. of the isolated DNA are self ligated and used to transform E. coli K12 SF8 in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 2C. The identity of the desired transformants is conventionally confirmed by initially selecting for AmR phenotype and then replicating those AmR colonies to select for neomycin resistant colonies. The resultantE. coli K12 SF8 pKC467 transformants are conventionally cultured for subsequent production and isolation of cosmid pKC467. This XbaI deletion results in the generation of a low copy number Streptomyces vector. Low copy number vectors are advantageous in that recipient host strains are not likely to be damaged by possible highlevel expression of physiologically active gene products. A restriction site and function map of cosmid pKC467 is presented in Figure 7 of the accompanying drawings. Example 10Construction of Streptomyces ambofaciens pKC462 and S.ambo faciens pKC46 7 About 1 pg. of DNA from Example 5 and 200 p1.of protoplasts of Streptomyces ambofaciens NRRL 2420 were mixed in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 7. The identity of the desired transformants was conventionally confirmed by initially selecting forAmR phenotype and then replicating those AmR colonies to select for neomycin resistant colonies. The resultantS. ambofaciens pKC462 apramycin resistant and neomycin resistant colonies were isolated according to known procedures, cultured, and then conventionally identified by restriction enzyme and agarose gel electrophoretic analysis of their constitutive cosmids Maniatis et al., 1982 . Streptomyces ambofaciens pKC467 can be constructed as taught above by substituting the pKC467 DNA from Example 9 for the pKC462 DNA. Example 11Culture of E. coli K12 SF8 pKC462A and Isolation ofCosmid pKC462A The culture of E. coli K12 SF8 pKC462A NRRLB 15973 and subsequent isolation of cosmid pKC462A were carried out in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 1. The e0.4 mg of cosmid pKC462A DNA obtained by this procedure was suspended in 1 ml of TE buffer and stored at 200C. A restriction site and function map of cosmid pKC462A is presented in Figure 8 of the accompanying drawings. Cosmid pKC462A can be easily distinguished from cosmid pKC462 on the basis of size because cosmid pKC462A contains approximately 0.9 bp more DNA than cosmid pKC462. Example 12Construction of Cosmid pKC467A and E. coli K12 SF8 pKC467A The construction of this low copy numberStreptomyces vector is performed in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 9A except that cosmid pKC462A DNA is substituted for the pKC462 DNA. E. coli K12 SF8 is transformed with cosmid pKC467A DNA in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 2C. The identity of the desired transformants can be conventionally confirmed by initially selecting for AmR phenotype and then replicating thoseAmR colonies to select for neomycin resistant colonies.The resultant E. coli K12 SF8 pKC467 transformants are conventionally cultured for subsequent production and isolation of cosmid pKC467A. Example 13Construction of Streptomyces ambofaciens pKC462A and S. ambofaciens pKC467A About 1 pg of the DNA from Example 11 and 200 pl of protoplasts of Streptomyces ambofaciens NRRL 2420 were individually mixed in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 7. The identity of the desired transformants was conventionally confirmed by initially selecting for AmR phenotype and then replicating those AmR colonies to select for neomycin resistant colonies. Streptomyces ambofaciens pKC467A can be constructed as taught above by substituting the pKC467ADNA from Example 12. for the pKC462A DNA. Example 14Construction of Cosmid coslllA. Construction of Intermediate Plasmid pOJ107 About 25 pg of cosmid pKC462A DNA were digested in 0.5 ml of 1X buffer 150 mM NaCl, 6 mM Tris HCl pH 7.9, 6 mM MgC12 and 1 mM Dithiothreitol with 20 units of PstI restriction enzyme for 3 hours at 370C. The DNA was ethanol precipitated and collected by centrifugation.After the DNA pellet was resuspended in 100 pl of TE, the PstI digested DNA was electrophoresed on a 0.7 agarose mini gel and isolated by electrolution, using anIBI electrolution apparatus. The 2.0 kb PstI fragment was isolated by running the gel at 150V for 30 minutes, followed by ethanol precipitation and resuspension in 50 pl of TE. About 1 p1 of this DNA was digested with 20 units BamHI restriction enzyme at 370C for 1 hour.The BamHI PstI digested DNA was then electrophoresed on a 0.7 agarose gel, and the desired 1.3 kb BamHI PstI restriction fragment, containing the apramycin resistance gene, was isolated and purified in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 2B. Plasmid pUCi9 commercially available fromPharmacia, Inc., 800 Centennial Dr., Piscataway, N.J. 08854 was similarly treated as taught above with BamHI and PstI restriction enzymes and the BamHI PstI cut plasmid was ligated to the 1.3 kb BamHI PstI fragment of cosmid pKC462A and transformed into E. coli K12 SF8 in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 2C. The desired transformants, E. coli K12 SF8 pOJ107, were identified by restriction enzyme analysis of their plasmid DNA and by their apramycin resistant phenotype.B. Construction of Intermediate Plasmid pOJ108 About 10 pg of plasmid pOJ107 DNA were digested in 20 p1 of 1X EcoRI buffer with 20 units ofEcoRI restriction enzyme. After precipitation with ethanol, these fragments were resuspended in 100 p1 ofNdeI buffer with 3 units NdeI restriction enzyme. The plasmid DNA mixture was incubated at 370C for 2 hours and then the DNA was ethanol precipitated, collected by centrifugation, and dissolved in 20 p1 of TE. Among the fragments generated by this double digestion is the desired EcoRI NdeI fragment containing the E. coli replicon and both the ampicillin and apramycin resistanceconferring genes. Partial NdeI restriction enzyme digests were performed on plasmid pHJL210 DNA NRRL B 15824 by incubating the EcoRI digested pHJL2l0 DNA at 370C for 8 minutes with 3 units of NdeI restriction enzyme. After precipitation, these fragments were cut to completion with 20 units of EcoRI restriction enzyme at 370C for 2 hours. The DNA was ethanol precipitated and resuspended in 10 pl of TE. This double digest generated the desired EcoRI NdeI fragment containing the SCP2 replicon and both the neomycin and thiostrepton resistanceconferring genes. These two plasmid digests were ligated and used to transform E. coli K12 SF8.The resulting transformants, E. coli K12 SF8 pOJ108, were identified by restriction enzyme analysis of their plasmid DNA and by their apramycin resistant phenotype. A restriction site and function map of plasmid pOJ108 is presented inFigure 9 of the accompanying drawings.C. Construction of Intermediate Plasmid pOJlll Ten pg of plasmid pOJ108 DNA was digested in 100 p1 of 1X PstI buffer with 50 units of PstI restriction enzyme for 2 hours at 370C. This PstI digestion of plasmid pOJ108 results in an 1.0 kb deletion, thereby removing a BamHI site and inactivating the neomycin resistance conferring gene. Upon transformation of E.coli K12 SF8 with the then ligated plasmid DNA, the resultant transformants were isolated and identified as plasmid pOJill. A restriction site and function map of plasmid pOJ1ll is presented in Figure 10 of the accompanying drawings.D. Preparation of ScaI HindIII Digested Plasmid DNA About 5 pg of plasmid pOJlll DNA were mixed with 100 pl 1X reaction buffer 150 mM NaCl, 6 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5, 6 mM MgC12 and 6 mM Dithiothreitol , and 3 p 50 units of ScaI restriction enzyme and the resulting reaction was incubated at 370C for 2 hours.The DNA was extracted with phenol and Sevag, precipitated with ethanol and resuspended in 20 p1 of TE. TheDNA was resuspended in HindIII buffer and then cut with 50 units of HindIII restriction enzyme at 370C for 2 hours. After extraction with phenol and Sevag, the DNA was precipitated with ethanol and resuspended in 20 p1 of TE. Ten g of plasmid pKC462A DNA were digested with HindlII and ScaI increased to 70 units restriction enzymes as taught above. This double digestion generates the desired HindIII ScaI fragment containing the multiple cos sites and part of the ampicillin resistance conferring gene. After the reaction c3 pi 45 units of XhoI restriction enzyme were added to the reaction, which was then incubated at 370C for 2 hours.This XhoI digestion serves to reduce the likelihood of parental plasmids from reappearing. The digested DNA was isolated as taught above.E. Ligation of Fragments to Construct Cosmid coslll and Transformation of E. coli K12 SF8 Five pl of the ScaI HindIII restriction fragments of plasmid pOJlll prepared in Example 14D and 5 pl of the ScaI HindIII digest of cosmid pKC462A prepared inExample 14D were mixed together, and ligated. This ligation mix was used to transform E. coli K12 SF8. The desired E. coli K12 SF8 coslll transformants were identified by their apramycin resistant phenotype and by restriction enzyme analysis of their cosmid DNA. Cosmid DNA was isolated from the transformants in substantial accordance with the procedure of Example 1.A restriction site and function map of coslll is presented in Figure 11 of the accompanying drawings. Example 15Construction of Streptomyces lividans TK23 coslll About 1 pg of the DNA from Example 14 and 200 pl of protoplasts of Streptomyces lividans TK23 NRRL 15826 were individually mixed in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 7. The identity of the desired S. lividans TK23 coslll transformants was conventionally confirmed by initially selecting for the apramycin resistant phenotype and then replicating those apramycin resistant colonies to select for thiostrepton resistant colonies.