# Improvements in or relating to goalposts.

## Abstract
A goalpost assembly comprises two uprights 10 , a crossbar 12 and supports 18 assembled from releasably interconnected sections, using corner pieces 14 . A net has fabric sleeves 32 for arrangement on the uprights 10 and the crossbar 12 . The uprights 10 have ground engaging spikes 20 , the supports 18 can accommodate pegs 24 and lower edges of the net are formed with holes 38 in a fabric for accommodating fixing pegs. The assembly can therefore be dismantled for storage.

## Claims
Claims 1. A goalpost assembly characterised by two uprights 10 , a crossbar 12 , means 14 for releasably securing the uprights 10 to the crossbar 12 , and a net, provided with a tubular edge portion 32 adapted to receive at least part of each of the uprights 10 and crossbar 12 . 2. An assembly according to claim 1, characteri sed in that the uprights 10 and crossbar 12 are assembled from a plurality of releasably interconnected sections. 3. An assembly according to claim 2, characterised in that the sections are interconnected by spring means which retain the sections against total separation after dismantling. 4. An assembly according to any of claims 1 to 3, characterised in that the means for releasably connecting the uprights 10 and crossbar 12 is a connector 14 defining a 90 angle. 5. An assembly according to any of the preceding claims, characterised in that the supports 18 extend downwardly and rearwardly from the securing means 14 or from the uprights 10 close to the securing means 14 . 6. An assembly according to claim 5, characterised in that the supports 18 are assembled from releasably interconnected sections. 7. An assembly according to any of the preceding claims, characterised in that ground engaging means 20 is provided at the lower end of each upright 10 . 8. An assembly according to any of claims 1 to 6, characterised in that a further support 44 extends from the base of each upright 10 to the base of each said support 18 . 9. An assembly according to claim 8, characterised in that a tie member 48 extends between.the junctions between said support 18 and said further support 44 . 10. An assembly according to any of the preceding claims, characterised in that the tubular edge portion 32 of the net is substantially the same length as the uprights 10 and the crossbar 12 . 11. An assembly according to any of the preceding claims, characterised in that the tubular edge portion 32 is discontinuous, gaps being provided in corner regions. 12. An assembly according to any of.the preceding claims, characterised in that the tubular edge portion 32 is formed from a plastics or plastics coated fabric formed into a sleeve and attached to the edge of the net by stitching, adhesive or any other suitable means. 13. An assembly according to any of the preceding claims, characterised in that lower ground engaging edges 36 of the net have a tape attached thereto, the tape being provided with fixing holes 38 adapted to accommodate holding down pegs. 14. An assembly according to any of the preceding claims, characterised in that a plastics material strip 26 is provided to extend between the lower extr emities of each upright 10 to form a goal line.

## Description
Improvements in or relating to Goalposts The present invention concerns improvements in or relating to goalpost assemblies, especially assemblies including collapsible goalposts which may be dismantled after use and stored in a small space. According to the present invention there is provided a goalpost assembly including two uprights, a crossbar, means for releasably securing the uprights to the crossbar and a net, provided with a tubular edge portion adapted to receive at least part of each of the uprights and crossbar. Preferably the uprights and crossbar are assembled from a plurality of releasably interconnected sections.The sections may be hollow or solid, may be manufactured from metal or plastics material, and may be interconnected by spigot and socket type connectors. Preferably the means for releasably connecting the uprights and crossbar is a connector defining a 900 angle making with the upright and crossbar a spigot and socket type connection. Preferably supports extend downwardly and rearwardly from the connector or from the upright close to the connector. Preferably the supports are assembled from releasably interconnected sections. Ground engaging means may be provided at the lower end of each upright. Alternatively a further support member may extend from the base of each upright to the base of each said support member. A tie member may extend Letween the junctions between said support and said further support. Said further supports and said tie member are preferably releasably interconnected. In a preferred embodiment the sections making up the various members, for example, the crossbar and uprights, are interconnected by spring means which retain the sections against total separation after dismantling. Preferably the tubular edge portion of the net is substantially the same length as the uprights and the crossbar. It may be coloured, for example, white, to give colour to the goalposts of the erected assembly.Preferably it is discontinuous, gaps being provided in those regions accommodating corner pieces. Preferably the tubular edge portion is formed from a plastics or plastics coated fabric formed into a sleeve and attached to the edge of the net by stitching, adhesive or any other suitable means. Preferably the lower ground engaging edges of the net have a tape attached thereto, the tape being provided with fixing holes adapted to accommodate holding down pegs. Preferably a white plastics material strip is provided to extend between the lower extremities of each upright to form a goal line, Embodiments of the present invention will now be described by way of example only with reference to the accompanying drawings in which Fig. 1 shows a front view of a collapsible goalpost Fig. 2 shows a net for the goalpost of Fig. 1 Fig. 3 shows a modified collapsible goalpost and Fig. 4 shows a net for the goalpost shown in Fig. 3. A soccer goalpost comprises two uprights 10 and a crossbar 12 made up from releasably interconnectible sections of zinc plated steel poles one end of which is swaged to a reduced outside diameter approximately equal to the inside diameter of the other end. Two corner pieces 14 provided with spigot and socket joints adapted to receive the ends of the uprights and crossbar respectively are provided to join the uprights to the crossbar, the corner pieces 14 having also a rearwardly extending spigot 16 to accommodate the end of a rearwardly and downwardly extending support or stanchion, again made up from sectional zinc plated steel sections 18.Steel spikes 20 are provided at the lower end of the uprights 10 to facilitate ground engagement and the lower end of the supports 18 are provided with holes 22 for accommodating steel pegs 24. The suaged ends of the sections enable a spigot and socket type interconnection and to prevent loss of sections at each joint between sections there is provided a spring which permits removal of one section from the end of its neighbour but not total separation. White pvc strip 26 is provided to extend between the spikes 20 to form a goal line, plastics material pegs, for example abs pegs, 28 being provided to hold down the strip intermediate its ends there being fixing holes 30 in the strip for this purpose. A goalpost assembly includes also a net conveniently manufactured from 2 inch square mesh plastic netting which has at its edges adapted to co operate with the uprights and crossbar white pvc coated nylon fabric tapes formed into sleeves 32 stitched thereto, the sleeves 32 being discontinuous at the sections thereof corresponding to the corner pieces 14 but including at these regions reinforcing sections in the form of a rigid plastic quadrant 34. The lower or ground engaging edges of the net 36 are also attached to a black pvc coated nylon fabric having peg holes 38 formed therethrough so that the ground engaging edges of the net can be held down. It will be realised therefore that a full sized soccer goalpost and net assembly can be provided which can be readily dismantled into a relatively small conveniently sized package for storage. In a modified arrangement shown in Fig. 3 and 4 the goalpost and net assembly is provided for practice purposes. In this embodiment the uprights and crossbar are manufactured from sections of rigid white pvc poles provided with spigot and socket connectors at their ends. In Figs. 3 and 4 components which are similar to those illustrated in Figs. 1 and 2 have been given the same reference numeral. Fig. 3 illustrates how the means of fixing the rearwardly and downwardly extending support to the uprights is modified from that shown in Fig. 1 in that an additional short section 40, having a downwardly and rearwardly extending spigot is provided as the top piece of the upright 10.As it is often intended to use this version of the goalpost and net assembly indoors no spikes are provided at the base of the uprights, rather further 90 corner pieces 42 having spigot and socket joints are provided to connect sectional further supports 44 extending rearwardly from said corner pieces 42 to the uprights 10. An additional connector member 46 is provided for fixing the bottom end of the downwardly and rearwardly extending support to the further support 44 and connects a tie member 48 to the connector members .Conveniently the supports and the tie member are made from plastics material sections, all sections having interconnecting spigot and socket arrangements. They are coloured black or green, the uprights and crossbar being coloured white. The net as shown in Fig. 4 is virtually identical to that shown in Fig. 2 but, of course, is of such a dimension that corresponds to the dimensions of the goalpost assembly. Various modifications can be made without departing from the scope of the invention, for example the means for interconnecting the sections can be any suitable means, for example screw threads or bayonet joints. U shaped ground engaging spikes may be provided for holding the goalposts of Fig. 3 rigidly to the ground in an outside location and to give the net to ground connection some resilience elastic members 52 may be incorporated in the net flange 36, the holding down pins for the net flange 52 being attached to the elastic connectors. Whilst endeavouring in the foregoing specification to draw attention to those features of the invention believed to be of particular importance it should be understood that the Applicant claims protection in respect of any patentable feature or combination of feature hereinbefore referred to whether or not particular emphasis has been placed thereon.