# Compasses.

## Abstract
Previously proposed solid state compasses using Hall effect magnetic field sensing elements are not generally useful in a context, such as on board an aircraft, where the compass may be subject to large changes in attitude relative to a horizontal plane and may be movable with respect to the earth in three dimensions. The compass disclosed herein comprises three orthogonally arranged Hall effect devices for forming signals indicative of components of the Earth s magnetic field along the axes of an axis system fiexed with respect to the compass, and a computer arranged to receive these signals and to receive signals, for example from the navigation system of an aircraft on which the compass is installed, indicative of the attitude of the axis system relative to the horizontal, the computer being programmed to calculate from these signals a true heading angle. By this means, the compass can remain operable even during say dynamic manoeuvering of an aircraft on which it is installed.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A compass comprising sensor means for forming respective digital signals indicative of the components of the Earths magnetic field along at least three axes of an axis system fixed with respect to the compass, and computing means for receiving said signals and for receiving further signals indicative of the attitude of the axis system relative to a horizontal plane, and operable for calculating the field components in two planes of the axis system, for calculating the magnitudes of the projections of those two field components onto said horizontal plane, and for using said two magnitudes to calculate the direction of North relative to the compass position. 2. A compass according to claim 1, including means for making available to said computing means information indicative of the variation between magnetic North and true North and selector means for causing the computer means to calculate the direction of either true or magnetic North relative to the compass position. 3. A compass according to claim 1, wherein said sensor means comprises three Hall effect magnetic field sensing devices, mounting means supporting said devices in mutually orthogonal positions, difference amplifier means connected to said devices and to a common reference signal source and operable to form three output signals respectively representative of the difference between the common reference signal and the respective signals from said devices, and analog to digital converting means for forming respective digital signals representative of said difference amplifier means output signals. 4. A compass according to claim 1, wherein said computing means is programmed to receive the signals ssa, ssv and ssx from said sensor means and signals Q and representative of said attitude of the axis system and to calculate from said signals the values ssah ssaê ssvê . Cos tan 1 ssv ssa and ssxh ssxê ssvê . cos tan 1 ssv ssx and then to calculate from said values ssah and ssxh, a heading angle equal to sin 1 ssxh ssxhê ssahê . ssxh ssxhê.

## Description
TITLE COMPASSES This invention relates to compasses, more particularly but not exclusively to compasses for use in a high manoeuvrability context such as on board an aircraft. A modern aircraft generally comprises a quite sophisticated navigation system which includes means for indicating to the pilot the compass direction of flight or heading of the aircraft. However, it is desirable to provide also some reasonably simple back up device and hitherto, this has usually taken the form of a floating ball magnetic compass. Such a device is simple, reliable and relatively cheap but has one drawback which is serious in certain contexts. In particular, during sustained dynamic manoeuvres such as those performed by combat or aerobatic display aircraft, the compass is not usable and, even afterwards, may take too long to restabilise. It has been proposed to make a solid state compass using magnetic field sensors such as Hall effect devices and inductive elements. Examples of such prior proposals may be found in U.S. patent specificationNo. 4,030,204 in an article entitled Electronic Compass using a fluxgate sensor by Pollock, N., Wireless World,October 1982, page 49 and in an article entitled HallCompass points digitally to Headings by Steinbough, G.,Electronics, Dec. 18, 1980, page 112. In each case, the proposal is for a two axis compass of the kind that might be used in a land or water vehicle. Such a compass would not be suitable for an aircraft which can of course move in three dimensions.The Electronics article although without refering to aircraft, in fact admits that the compass therein proposed will only work properly if it remains horizontal and some possible solutions are suggested one of which is that a third Hall sensor can be mounted perpendicular to the first two and its output used to correct the measured values for any tilt . This remains no more than a suggestion however no other information is given and in particular there is no indication as to how the massive attitude variations of an aircraft might be accommodated as opposed to the kind of relatively small tilt which might be experienced by a land or water vehicle. An aircraft may not only be moving up or down but may have a degree of pitch or roll with respect to the direction in which it is moving. Accordingly, it is one object of this invention to provide a solid state compass which can operate despite quite large changes in attitude and such of the compass with respect to the horizontal . A subsidiary object is to provide a compass usable in an aircraft or like threedimensionally movable craft, preferably in the form of a relatively cheap and simple, but nevertheless reliable replacement for an aircraft back up compass, and which will substantially remain operable during dynamic manoeuvring of the craft. According to the invention, there is provided a compass comprising sensor means for forming respective digital signals indicative of the components of the Earth s magnetic field along at least three axes of an axis system fixed with respect to the compass, and computing means for receiving said signals and for receiving further signals indicative of the attitude of the axis system relative to a horizontal plane, and operable for calculating the field components in two planes of the axis system, for calculating the magnitudes of the projections of those two field components onto said horizontal plane, and for using said two magnitudes to calculate the direction of North relative to the compass position. Advantageously, the computing means is able to receive information indicative of the variation between magnetic and true North and selectably to calculate the direction of either relative to the compass position. For a better understanding of the invention, reference will now be made, by way of example, to the accompanying drawings, in which figure 1 is a simplified circuit diagram of a solid state compass for use in an aircraft, figure 2 is a program flow diagram illustrating the operation of a computing system used in the figure 1 compass, and figure 3 is a diagram of a three axis coordinate system associated with an aircraft on which is installed the figure 1 compass. The illustrated compass comprises three Hall effect devices 1, 2 and 3 which are mutually orthogonally arranged so as to measure the components of the earth s magnetic field in the airframe axes. The Hall effect devices are connected between a first output 4 of a regulator 5, at which output there is provided a reference signal derived by the regulator from a drive voltage supplied via drive input terminal 6, and one terminal of a respective one of three differential amplifiers 7, 8 and 9. The other input of each amplifier is fed with a reference signal from a second output of regulator 5. The output of each amplifier is fed via a respective one of three current amplifying transistors 10, 11 and 12 to a respective one of three analog to digital converters 13, 14 and 15.The converters thus produce respective digital signals indicative of the components measured by the Hall effect devices. These digital signals are fed to a micro processor based computing system 16. System 16 also receives information along line 17 from the aircraft navigation computer for example not shown concerning the instant pitch and roll angles of the aircraft. Referring to figures 2 and 3, the computing system 16 is programmed to read the digital values supplied to it by the converters 13 to 15, the values being representative of the components Bx, Ba and Bv of the earth s magnetic field B where Bx is the component along the roll or longitudinal axis X, Ba is the component along the pitch or lateral axis A and Bv is the component along the yaw or normal axis V. From these values, the magnitude Bav of the projection of the field vector B onto the plane A V, i.e. the plane containing the axesA and V, is calculated as BavEMI5.1 and the angle between this projection and the axis A is calculated as tan 1 Bv Ba. The instant pitch angle 0 of the aircraft is added to to give the angle true between Bav and the horizontal. Similarly, the component Bxv of the field B in the plane X V containing the X and V axes is calculated asEMI5.2 and its angleEMI5.3 relative to the horizontal is obtained by adding the aircraft roll angle 9 to the angle between Bxv and axis X, being obtained from Tan 1 Bv Bx. The horizontal components Bah and Bxh of the field B can then be obtained from Bah Bav. Cos C true andBxh Bxv. Cos X true and finally the aircraft heading obtained asEMI5.4 tb SEP sin tb SEP . SEP t SEP SEP S SEP t tb The heading calculated by the system 16 is displayed by a solid state display device 18, ideally in a form which looks somewhat as it would if the usual kind of floating ball magnetic back up compass were being used.Namely, as shown, the heading is displayed as digits beneath a fixed pointer or cursor 19 and further digits are displayed each side of the cursor so that it seems as though part of the scale on a moving ball is being viewed through a rectangular window. If desired, the compass can incorporate a switch 20 on the front panel beneath the display device, the switch being operable to control the system 16 so that the aircraft heading is displayed relative either to true or magnetic North as desired. The variation between true and magnetic North is entered into system 16 manually using a set up switch 21 and an offset generating device, for example a potentiometer 22, also mounted on the compass front panel. When the switch 20 is set to the True position, the system 16 simply biases the heading value obtained as described earlier using the previously entered value of magnetic variation. As will be realised, the compass forming the subject of this invention is not only usable in an aircraft but is also suitable for use in other situations, most advantage being obtained usually in a situation involving a high degree of manoeuvrability of the compass or its carrier. It will be further realised that the figure 1 circuit could incorporate one or more customised integrated circuits replacing some or all of the discrete components presently used therein.