# Adjustably tiltable working surface.

## Abstract
An adjustably tiltable working surface is described. The principle characteristic of the present invention lies in the fact that it comprises a support plate 11 laterally supporting two mechanisms 13 through which the rotation of the said plate 11 can be controlled each of the said mechanisms 13 includes two elements 17 end 26 cooperating together by means of toothed edges and one of which is rigidly connected to a fixed support 5 or 47 and the other of which is rotatable its rotation being controlled by a suitable device 32 .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An adjustably tiltable working surface characterised by the fact that it comprises a support board 1 supporting, close to its lateral edges, two mechanisms 13 by means of which the rotation in a clockwise and anti clockwise sense of the board 11 about a pivoting point thereof to a fixed support 5 or 47 can be obtained each of the said mechanisms 13 comprise a first element 17 rigidly connected to the said support 5 or 47 and having a toothed portion 23 , a rotatable second element 26 supported by the said board 11 and having at least one tooth 31 able to cooperate with the said toothed portion 23 , and a device 32 operable to control the rotation of the said second element 26 and therefore its engagement or disengagement with the said toothed portion 23 . 2. A working surface according to Claim 1, characterised by the fact that it includes two box section members 12 fixed to the said lateral edges of the said board 11 within each of the said box section members 12 there being housed a respective said mechanism 13 . 3. A working surface according to Claim 2, characterised by the fact that at least one projection 15 pivoted on the said first element 17 extends from the said box section member 12 towards the said support 5 or 47 . 4. A working surface according to Claim 2 and or Claim 3, characterised by the fact that the cooperation between the said toothed portion 23 of the said first element 17 and the said tooth 31 of the said second element 26 takes place within the said box section member 12 the said rotatable second element 26 being supported by the said box section member 12 . 5. A working surface according to Claim 4, characterised by the fact that the said second element 2G is substantially flat and of L shape the said tocth 31 being formed on a first end of the said second element 26 . 6. A working surface according to Claim 5, characterised by the fact that the said device includes a meEal wire 32 having a first end 33 of inverted U shape able to be engaged inter nally by a econd end of the said second element 26 . 7. A working surface according to Claim 6, characterised by the fact that the said wire 32 has a seconc end on which is fitted a cap 34 pressure on which by the operator, towards the said support 5 or 47 causes disengagement of the said tooth 31 from the said toothed portion 23 . 8. A working surface according to Claim 7, characterised by the fact that it includes spring means 41 operable to bias the axial translation of the said wire 32 . 9. A working surface according to Claim 8, characterised by the fact that within the interior of the said box section member 12 there is housed a third element 35 having a longitudinal hole 37 housing the said cap 34 and the said spring means 41 . 10. A working surface according to at least one of the preceding Claims, characterised by the fact that the part of the said first element 17 external of the said box section member 12 lies within a second section 44 of bellows type.

## Description
Adjustably Tiltable Working Surface The present invention relates to an adjustably tiltable working surface.The object of the present invention is that of providing an adjustably tiltable working surface which shall be of simple construction and reduced production cost.According to the present invention there is provided an adjust ably tiltable working surface characterised by the fact that it comprises a support board supporting, close to its lateral edges, two mechanisms by means of which it is possible to control the rotation in clockwise and anti clockwise sense of the said board about a pivoting point thereof on a fixed support each of the said mechanisms include a first element rigidly connected to the support and having a toothed portion, a second element rotatably supported by the said board and having at least one tooth able to cooperate with the said toothed portion, and a device operable to control the rotation of the said second element and therefore its engagement or disengagement with the said toothed portion.For a better understanding of the present invention a preferred embodiment is now described, purely by way of non limitative example, with reference to the attached drawings, in which Figure 1 is a perspective view of an adjustably tiltable working surface forming part of a writing table Figure 2 is a perspective view of a working surface similar to that illustrated in Figure 1, but supported by a wall Figure 3 is a partial perspective view of a mechanism operable to control the inclination of the working surface of Figures 1 and 2 and Figure 4 is a section of a detail of the working surface of Figures 1 and 2.As illustrated in Figure 1, the reference numeral 1 generally indicates a writing table provided with a working surface 2 which can be adjustably tilted.The writing table 1 includes two feet 3 having a portion 4 with longitudinal axes parallel to the ground and which rest on this latter, and a column 5 which extends upwardly orthogonally to the portion 4. The feet 3, and more precisely the columns 5, support on one side a fixed working surface 6, and on the opposite side the working surface 2, which, as already described, is adjustably tiltable.With reference to Figures 1,3 and 4, the working surface 2 comprises a rectangular support board 11 along the opposite lateral edges of which there is fixed a respective tubular box section member 12.The box section member 12 is of longitudinal length substantially equal to the length of the corresponding edge of the board 11. Within each box section member 12 there is housed a mechanism 13 by means of which it is possible to control the inclination of the board 11e Within the longitudinal end of the box section member 12, close to the column 5, ther is positioned an inverted, U folded sheet member 14. The sheet member 14 is rigidly connected tothe box section member 12 since its lateral portions, being of slightly greater width than the width of the box section member 12, engage against the lateral walls of this latter. From the sheet member 14 there extend outwardly of the box section member 12 two flat projections 15 parallel to one another and lying in planes orthogonal to the ground. The projections 15 each have a respective through hole 16.The mechanism 13 includes an element 17 rigidly connected to the column 5 and on which the box section member 12 is pivoted by means of the projections 15.The element 17 is flat, rectangular and parallel to the projections 15. In particular, from a rear edge of the element 17 there extends, towards the column 5, a pin 18 lodged in a through hole 21 formed on the column 5 itself. On a threaded portion of the pin 18 projecting from the hole 21 there is screwed a rut 22. Along the front edge of the element 17 there is formed a toothed portion 23. Close to the upper edge of the element 23 there is formed a through hole 24. The element 17, as already described, is parallel to the projections 15 and likewise lies in a mid position between these latter.A pin 25 engages the hole 16 of the projections 15 and the hole 24 of the element 17. The box section members 12, and consequently the whole of the working surface 11, are therefore rotatable about the longitudinal axes of the two pins 25. The toothed por tion 23 of the element 17 is within the box section member 12 and more precisely is positioned between the lateral portions of the sheet member 14.The mechanism 13 further includes a substantially L shape rotatable element 26 coplanar with the element 17. The element 26lieswithin the sheet member 14 and likewise is supported by the lateral portions of these latter. In fact, the element 26 has a central through hole 27 engaged by a pin 28 supported by the lateral portions of the sheet member 14. Along the ends of the element 26 facing the toothed portion 23 of the element 17 there are formed two teeth 31 able to cooperate with the said toothed portion 23. The mechanism 13 finally includes a metal wire 32 within the box section member 12 and by means of which as will be seen better hereinbelow the element 26 is disengaged from the element 17 and therefore the working surface 2 is rendered rotatable. The wire 32 includes a first end 33 of inverted U shape engaged internally by the upper end of the element 26.The wire 32 includes a second end on which is fitted a cap 34 housed in a prismatic element 35 lodged in turn within the box section member 12 in the end opposite that housing the sheet member 14. The element 35 has a longitudinal through hole which includes a first section 37 and a second section 38 of smaller diameter than that of the first section 37. The cap 34 is housed in the first section 37. Between this cap and the shoulder defined by the reduction in diameter for the formation of the second section 38, and around the wire 32 there is wound a pre loaded spring 41. The action of the spring 41 lies in pressing the cap 34 and therefore the wire 32 outwardly of the box section member 12.Starting from the position illustrated in Figure 4, by pressing the cap 34 against the action of the spring 41 the wire 32, by means of its end 33, controls the rotation in an anticlockwise sense of the element 26 disengaging the teeth 31 of this latter from the toothed portion 23 of the element 17. Now it is possible to rotate the working surface 2 in a clockwise and anti clockwise sense until it assumes the desired position. At this point it is sufficient to release the pressure exercised on the caps 34 to make the springs 41 return the respective wires 32 which cause the elements 26 to rotate and return into cooperation with the respective elements 17. With reference to Figure 4, from a lateral portion of the sheet member 14 extends, towards the other lateral portion, a projection 41 which can constitute a stop against excessive anti clockwise rotation of the element 26. On the column 5 it is possible to form more holes 21 of different height in such a way that as well as being of adjustable inclination the working surface 2 can be also adjusted in height. It is to be noted with reference to Figures 1 and 3 that the portion of the element 17 outside the box section member 12 is located within a bellows type section 44.As illustrated in Figure 2, the working surface 2 is entirely identical with that illustrated and des cribed with reference to Figure 1 and is fixed to a wall 46. This latter can be a normal dividing wall between two rooms or else a partition wall of the type commonly utilised in offices. The element 17 can be fixed directly to the wall 46 or, as illustrated in Figure 2, to a section 47 extending from this wall 46. The sections 47 support a small bracket 48 and a box 51 in which the electrical cables are normally housed.From what has been described above the advantages consequent on the formation of the present invention will be apparent. In particular, an adjustably tiltable working surface of simple construction and easy use has been provided. In fact, the two mechanisms 13 are of simple construction and, for adjustment of the inclination of the working surface 2, it is sufficient to press the two caps 34 and simultaneously turn the board 11 to the desired position. Moreover, it is also possible to regulate the height of the working surface 2 and to mount this either on a writing table or on a partition wall or other kind of wall.Finally, it is clear that the working surface 2 described and illustrated here can be modified and varied without by this departing from the protective scope of the present invention. In particular, in place of the wire 32 a different system for controlling the rotation of the element 26 can be utilised. Among other things this latter can be formed differently from that illustrated, whilst retaining the principle of having at least one tooth 31 able to enter into engagement with the toothed portion 23 of the element 17 which can also be formed differently from that illustrated. Moreover, the box section member 12 could be not provided with the sheet member 14 and in this case it supports the pin 28 itself and also is formed with the projections 15. Finally, the mechanisms 13 could be mounted on the lower surfaces of the board 11 close to ltS lateral edges.