# Molded articles manufactured from blends of a biphenyl containing poly aryl ether sulfone and a poly aryl ether ketone .

## Abstract
Described are blends of a biphenyl containing poly aryl ether sulfone and a poly aryl ether ketone . These blends exhibit improved mechanical properties and environmental stress rupture resistance.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A blend comprising a biphenyl containing poly aryl ether sulfone and a polyCaryl ether ketone . 2. A blend as defined in claim 1 wherein the poly aryl ether sulfone contains the repeating unit EMI36.1 wherein R1 through R4 areEMI36.2 with the proviso that at least one of R1 through R4 is SO2 , Ar1 through Ar3 are arylene of 6 to 24 carbon atoms, preferably phenylene or biphenylene a and n are 0 or 1. 3. A blend as defined in claim 1 wherein the poly aryl ether sulfone has the following repeating unit EMI36.3 EMI37.1 4. A blend as defined in claim 1 wherein the poly aryl ether sulfone is a copolymer having the repeating units EMI37.2 ranged randomly along the chain. 5. A blend as defined in any one of claims 1 4 wherein the poly aryl ether ketone has a repeating unit of the following formula EMI37.3 wherein Ar is independently a divalent aromatic radical selected from phenylene, biphenylene or naphthylene, X is independentlyEMI37.4 or a direct bond and n is sn integer of from 0 to 3 or EMI38.1 wherein a is sn integer of 1 to 4 and b, c, and d are 0 to 1 orEMI38.2 wherein X is independentlyEMI38.3 or a direct bond orEMI38.4 wherein Ar is a divalent aromatic radical selected from phenylene, biphenylene or napthylene, X is independentlyEMI38.5 or s u direct bond and e is 0 or 1 or EMI38.6 wherein Ar is 8 divalent aromatic radical selected from phenylene, biphenylene or naphthylene, X is independentlyEMI38.7 or a direct bond and e is O or 1 orEMI38.8 or EMI39.1 6. A blend as defined in any one of claims 1 4 wherein the poly aryl ether ketone has a repeating unit selected from one or more of the following EMI39.2 EMI40.1

## Description
BLENDS OF A BIPHENTL CONTAINING POLY ARYL ETHER SULFONE AND A POLY ARYL ETHER KETONE Described herein are blends comprising a biphenyl containing poly aryl ether sulfone and a poly eryl ether ketone . These blends have limited miscibility and excellent mechanical compatibility.These blends possess, in an article molded therefrom, a good balance of properties including higher modulus, impact resistance, solvent resistance and resistance to environmental stress cracking. Poly aryl ether ketones offer an exceptional balance of properties namely, high melting point. excellent thermal stability, excellent hydrolytic stability, high stiffness and strength, good toughness, and excellent solvent and environmental stress rupture resistance. However, the high melting point 30O0C of poly sryl ether ketones seriously lilts the number of polymer systems which can be considered for blending.Further, the somewhat low glass transition temperature Tg of these materials 1700C limits their use in several applications such as composites, bearings and seals, and electrical connectors. This is primarily because of the loss in modulus as the Tg is traversed. Polymer blends have been widely taught and employed in the art. As broad as this statement may be, the blending of polymers remains an empirical art and the selection of polymers for a blend giving special properties is, in the main, an Edisonian like choice. Certain attributes of polymer blends are more unique than others. The more unique attributes when found in a blend tend to be unanticipated properties. A According to Zoller and Hoehn, Journal of Polymer Science, Polymer Physics Edition, vol. 20. pp. 1385 1397 1982 Blending of polymers is a useful technique to obtain properties in thermoplastic materials not readily achieved in a single polymer. Virtually all technologically important properties can be improved in this way, some of the more important ones being flow properties, mechanical properties especially impact strength , thermal stability, and price. .... Ultimately, the goal od such modeling and correlation studies should be the prediction of blend properties from the properties of the pure components alone. We are certainly very far from achieving this goal. In the field of miscibility or compatibility of polymer blends. the art has found predictability to be unattainable, even though Gonsiderable work on the matter has been done.According to authorities B It is well known that compatible polymer blends are rare. Wang and Cooper, Journal of Polymer Science, Polymer Physics Edition, vol.21, p. 11 1983 . C Hiscibility in polymer polymer blends is a sub3ect of widespread theoretical as well as practical interest currently. In the past decade or so the number of blend systems that are known to be miscible has increased considerably. Moreover, a number of systems have been found that exhibit upper or lower critical solution temperatures, i.e., complete miscibility only in limited temperature ranges Hodern thermodynamic theories have had limited success to date in predicting miscibility behavior in detail.These limitations have spawned a degree of pessimism regarding the likelihood that any practical theory can be developed that can accommodate the real complexities that nature has bestowed on polymer polymer interactions. Kambour,Bendler, Bopp, Macromolecules, 1983, 16, 753. D The vast majority of polymer pairs form two phase blends after mixing as can be surmised from the small entropy of mixing for very large molecules. These blends are generally characterized by opacity, distinct thermal transitions, and poor mechanical properties. However, special precautions in the preparation of two phase blends can yield composites with suPerior mechanical properties. These materials play a major role in the polymer industry, in several instances commanding a larger market than either of the pure components. Olabisi, Robeson andShaw, Polymer Polymer Miscibility. 1979, published by Academic Press, New York,N.Y., p. 7. E It 18 well known that. regarding the mixing of thermoplastic polymers, incompatibility is the rule and miscibility and even partial miscibility is the exception. Since most thermoplastic polymers are lmmiscible in other thermoplastic polymers. the discovery of a homogeneous mixture or partially miscible mixture of two or more thermoplastic polymers is, indeed, inherently unpredictable with any degree of certainty, for example, see P. J. Flory, Principles of Polvmer Chemistry, Cornell University Press, 1953, Chapter 13, page 555 Younes, U.S. Patent No. 4,371,672. F The study of polymer blends has assumed an ever increasing importance in recent years and the resulting research effort has led to the discovery of a number of miscible polymer combinations. Complete miscibility is an unusual property ir. binary polymer mixtures which normally tend to form phase separated systems. Much of the work has been of a qualitative nature, however, and variables such as molecular weight and conditions of blend preparation have often been overlooked. The criteria for establishing miscibility are also varied and may not always all be applicable to particular systems. Saeki, Cowie and McEwen, Polymer, 1983, vol. 24, January, p. 60. Blends of poly sryl ether ketones and poly aryl ether sulfones have been briefly alluded to in the patent literature. British Patent No.1,446,962 page 3, lines 28 to 32 states The aromatic polyether ketone may be blended with other thermoplastic polymeric substances, for example. polyesters, polyolefins, polyamides, polysulfones, and poly vinyl chloride . The composition may be further mixed with particles e.g., elastomeric materials and polytetrafluoroethylene.n This disclosure generally describes blends of poly aryr ether ketones and poly aryl ether sulfones . However, the above quotedEststement contains so many inaccuracies that it is, in essence, not relevant. Blending poly vinyl chloride at temperatures 3O00C would give instantaneous degradation yielding large quantities of hydrochloric acid as well as other noxious by products.Polyolefins, polyesters e.g., poly ethylene terephthalate , poly butylene terephthalate and polyamides e.g., nylon 6, nylon 6,6, nylon 11, and nylon 12 also will severely degrade at processing temperatures in excess of 300 C and thus produce useless blends with poly aryl ether ketones . U.S. Patent No. 3,324,199 describes blends of a specific poly aryl Acetone containing ortho hydroxy groups relative to the ketone group .These materials are described as ultraviolet light stabilizers for a variety of polymers including polyethylene, polypropylene, poly vinyl chloride , poly vinylidene chloride , polyacrylic acid esters, polyacrylonitrile, polyvinyl fluoride, polyvinylidene fluoride, polytetrafluoroethylene, polychlorotrifluoroethylene, polyesters, polyamides, and polyimides. These poly aryl ketones are generally amorphous and require aromatic hydroxyls ortho to the main chain ketones. The poly aryl ketones of this invention are crystalline, have no ortho hydroxyls, and could not be blended with many of the above mentioned polymers as the melting point of the poly aryl ether ketones are higher than the degradation temperature of most of the above cited polymers. It has been found that the reaction product of biphenol and 4,4 dichlorodiphenyl sulfone biphenol based polysulfone exhibits an interesting property balance and exhibits a limited level of miscibility in blends with poly aryl ether ketones . The level of intermixing is at least partially responsible for the excellent mechanical properties exhibited by the blend. Other poly aryl ether sulfones containing biphenyl have been found to exhibit similar characteristics in blends with poly aryl ether ketones . This invention is directed to a blend of a biphenyl containing poly aryl ether sulfone and a poly aryl ether ketone . The presence of the biphenyl unit in the poly aryl sulfone appears important in obtaining compatibility between the poly aryl ether sulfone and poly sryl ether ketones. In the blend, the poly aryl ether sulfone isused in smounts of from about 5 to about 95, preferably from about 20 to about 75 weight percent while the poly aryl ether sulfone is used in amounts of from about 95 to about 5, preferably from about 35 to about 80 weight percent.The Pole arel ether sulfones The poly aryl ether sulfones which are suitable for use in the blend of this invention contain at least one biphenyluriLt in the structure. The preferred biphenyl containing poly aryl ether sulfone contains the repeating unit EMI6.1 wherein R1 through R4 areEMI6.2 the proviso that at least one of R1 through R4 is SO2 , Ar1 through Ar3 are arylene of 6 to 24 carbon atoms, preferably phenylene or biphenylene a and n are 0 or 1. The preferred poly aryl ether sulfones include those having the following reoccurring units EMI7.1 tb yTh SEP off SEP SO2M SoTh tb SEP W s SEP o i tb SEP so22 1o tb SEP SEP Th02Mm DsoM tb SEP Asovoosomso2oW tb SEP The SEP poly aryl SEP ether SEP sulfones SEP are SEP produced tb by methods well known in the art such as those described in U.S. Patents 3,634,355 4,008,203 4,108,837 and 4,175,17S. The Poly aryl ether ketone The crystalline poly aryl ether ketone s which are suitable for use herein can be generically characterized as containing a repeating unit of one or more of the following formulae EMI7.2 EMI8.1 wherein Ar is independently a divalent aromatic radicel selected from phenylene, biphenylene or 0 naphthylene, X is independently 0, C, or a direct bond and n is an integer of from 0 to 3, b, c, d and e are O or 1 and a is an integer of 1 to 4 and preferably d is 0 when b is 1. Preferred poly aryl ketone s include those having a repeating unit of the formula EMI8.2 EMI9.1 EMI10.1 These poly aryl ketone s are prepared by methods well known in the art. One such method comprises heating a substantially equimolar mixture of at least one bisphenol and at least one dihalobenzoid compound or at least one halophenol compound as described in Canadian Patent 847,963.Preferred bisphenols in such a process include hydroquinone, 4,4. dihydroxybenzophenone, 4,4 dihydroxybiphenyl, and 4,41 dihydroxydiphenyl ether. Preferred halo and dihalobenzoid compounds include 4 4 chlorobenzoyl phenol, 4,4 difluorobenzophenone, 4,4 dichlorobenzophenone, 4 chloro 4 fluorobenzophenone, EMI10.2 The poly aryl ketone s may be produced by the process as described in, for example, U.S.Patent 4,176,222. This process comprises heating in the temperature range of 100 to 4000C., i a substantially equimolar mixture of a at least one bisphenol and b at least one dthalobenzenold compound, or ii at least one halophenol, in which in the dlhalobenzenoid compound or halophenol, the halogen atoms are activated by CO groups ortho or para thereto, with a mixture of sodium carbonate or bicarbonate and a second alkali metal carbonate or bicarbonate, the alkali metal of said second slkali metal carbonate or bicarbonate having a higher atomic number than that of sodium, the amount of said second alkali metal carbonate or bicarbonate being such that there are 0.001 to 0.5 gram atoms of said alkali metal of higher atomic number per gram atom of sodium, the total amount of alkali metal carbonate or bicarbonate being such that there is at least one alkali metal atom for each phenol group present, and thereafter separating the polymer from the alkali metal halide. Also, poly aryl ketone s such as those containing repeating units of the formula EMI11.1 may be produced by Friedel Craft reactions utilizing hydrogen fluoride boron trifluoride catalysts as described, for example, in U.S. Patent 3,953,400. Additionally, poly aryl ketones of the following formula EMI12.1 may be prepared by Friedel Craft reactions using a boron fluoride hydrogen fluoride catalyst as described in, for example, U.S. Patents 3,441,538 3,442,857 and 3,516,966. The polyketones may also be prepared according to the process as described in, for example, U.S. Defensive Publication T 103,703 andU.S. Patent 4,396,755. In this process, reactants such as a an aromatic monocarboxylic acid, b a mixture of at least one aromatic dicarboxylic acid, and c combinations of a and b are reacted in the preSence of a fluoroalkane sulphonic acid, particularly trifluoromethane sulphonic acid. Additionally, polytaryl ether ketone s of the following formulas EMI12.2 may also be prepared according to the process as described in, for example, U.S. Patent 4,398,020.In such a process, a a mixture of substantially equimolar amounts of i at least one aromatic discyl halide of the formula YOC Ar COY where Ar is a divalent aromatic radical, Y is halogen and COY is an aromatically bound acyl halide group, which diacyl halide is polymerizable with at least one aromatic compound of a ii , and ii at least one aromatic compound of the formula H Ar O Ar H where Ar is a divalent aromatic radical and H is an aromatically bound hydrogen atom, which compound is polymerizable with at least one diacyl halide of a i , and b at least one aromatic monoacyl halide of formula H Ar COW where Ar 1 is a divalent aromatic radical and H is an aromatically bound hydrogen atom, Y is halogen, and COY is an aromatically bound acyl halide group, which monoacyl halide is self polymerizable, and c a combination of a and b in the presence of a fluoroalkene sulphonic acid. The term poly aryl ether ketone as used herein is meant to include homopolymers, copolymers, terpolymers, block copolymers, graft copolymers, and the like. For example, any one or more of the repeating units I to V may be combined to form copolymers, etc. The poly aryl ether ketone s have a reduced viscosity of at least about 0.3 to about 5.0 dl g, as measured in concentrated sulphuric acid at 25 C. It should, of course, be obvious to those skilled in the art that other additives may be included in the blends of this invention. These additives include plasticizers pigments flame retardants reinforcing agents, such as glass fibers thermal stabilizers ultraviolet light stabilizers impact modifiers, and the like. The blends may be fabricated into any desired shape, i.e., moldings, coatings, films or fibers. They may be used to mold gears, bearings, and the like. EXAMPLES The following examples serve to give specific illustrations of the practice of this invention but they are not intended in any way to limit the scope of this invention. The following designstions are used in the examples and they have the following meaning Polvketone I A polymer having a repeating unit of the formula EMI14.1 having a reduced viscosity of 1.2 dl g as measured in 96 sulfuric acid 1 wt. t solution et 250C PEEK obtained from Imperial Chemicals Co. Polvketone II A polymer having a repeating unit of the formula EMI14.2 having a reduced viscosity of 1.1 dl g as measured at I wt. X in 96 wt. 5 sulfuric acid at 25 C.Polysulfone I A polymer having a repeating unit of the formula EMI15.1 having a reduced viscosity of 0.59 dl g as measured in N methylpyrrolidone at 250C 0.2 gr 100 ml .Polysulfone II A polymer having a repeating unit of the formula EMI15.2 having a reduced viscosity of 0.51 dlig as measured in N methyl pyrrolidone at 250C 0.2 gr 100 ml . Polvsulfone III A polymer having a repeating unlit of the formula EMI15.3 having a melt flow of 0.68 dg minutes at 44 psi and 4000C ASTM D 1238 .Polysulfone IV A random copolymer having repeating units ofEMI16.1 in a ratio of 75125 and having an R.V. of 0.42 dl g as measured in N methyl pyrrolidone 0.2 gr 100 ml solution at 25 C . Control Polysulfone A polymer having a repeating unit of the formula EMI16.2 having a reduced viscosity of 0.48 dl g as measured in N methyl pyrrolidone 0.2 gr 100 ml at 250C. Polvetherimide A polymer having a repeating unit of the formula EMI17.1 having a reduced viscosity of 0.51 dl g as measured in chloroform 0.2 g 100 ml 250C. Example 1 90 weight percent of Polysulfone I and 10 weight percent of Polyketone I were blended in a 36 1 L D one inch extruder with two fluted mixing sections at 3600C. The properties were obtained on tensile specimens injection molded in a 1 1 4 ozNewburg screw injection molding machine at 3800C. Properties were determined as per ASTM tests ASTM Tensile Modulus D 638 Tensile Strength D 638 S Elongation D 638 Notched Izod Impact Strength D 256 Tensile Impact Strength D 1822 Heat Distortion Temperature D 648 Flexural Modulus D 790 Flexural Strength D 790 The properties are shown in Table I. Examples 2 to 4 The procedure of Example 1 was exactly repeated except that the components of the blend were the following Example 2 80 weight 5 Polysulfone I 20 weight 5 Polyketone I Example 3 65 weight Polysulfone I 35 weight Polyketone I Example 4 50 weight Polysulfone I 50 weight Polyketone I The results are shown in Table I. It can be seen that the addition ofPolysulfone I to Polyketone I in the amount of at least 50 improves the heat deflection temperature of the latter. TABLE I 90 POLY 80 POLY 65 POLY 50 POLYSULFONE I SULFONE I SULFONE I SULFONE I 10 POLY 20 POLY 35 POLY 50 POLY POLYSULFONE I POLYKETONE I KETONE I KETONE I KETONE I KETONE ITensile Modulus psi 332,000 527,000 332,000 342,000 358,000 414,000Tensile Strenght psi 10,500 13,100 11,700 11,700 11,800 11,500 Elongation 98 75 105 103 117 90Notchend Izod Impact Strenght 13.8 1.3 14.2 15.5 5.2 2.6 ft lbs in of notch Tensile Impact Strenght 243 94 156 189 175 138 ft lbs inê Heat Distortion Temperature 195 C 145 C 155 C 264 psi, 1 8 bar Flexural Modulus psi 330,000 349,000 361,000 375,000 412,000Flexural Strenght psi 12,400 13,400 13,900 14,500 16,000 at 5 Strin Samples of Examples 1 to 4 were compression molded at 3600C in a cavity mold into 20 mil thick 4 x 4 inch plaques. 20 mil strips 1 8 wide were shear cut from the compression molded specimens. The samples were loaded in tension using lever arm weighting arrangement. A cotton swab was placed on the center of the specimen and saturated with the test environment at time zero. The time to rupture was determined unless the sample did not rupture in 2 hours then the qualitative characteristic of the sample was noted e.g., crazing and embrittlement . The environmental stress rupture results are shown in Table II. It is seen that the addition of Polyketone I to Polysulfone I improves the environmental stress rupture resistance of the latter, particularly when the polyketone is present in smounts greater than 20 by weight. TABLE IIENVIROMENTAL STRESS RUPTURE RESULTS 90 POLY 80 POLY 69 POLY 50 POLYSULFONE I SULFONE I SULFONE I SULFONE I 10 POLY 20 POLY 35 POLY 50 POLY POLYSULFONE I KETONE I KETONE I KETONE I KETONE IEnvironment Stress Time to RuptureAcetone 1000 psi 29 sec R 11 sec R 22 sec R 0.09 hrs R 2000 psi 2 hrs C Ethyl Acetate 1000 psi 0.42 hrs R 0.06 hrs R 0.05 hrs R 2 hrs NCNB 2000 psi 2 hrs C Toluene 100 psi 0.05 hr R 55 sec R 2 hs NCNM 2 hrs NCNB 2000 psi 2 hrs NCNBTrichloroezhylene 1000 psi 7 sec R 10 sec R 24 secR 0.04 hr R 2000 psi 0.86 hr RC crezed and brittleNCNB not crazed, not brittleR rupture Examples 5 to 9 The procedure of blending the indicated polymers was identical to that described inExample 1 Example 5 75 weight of Polyketone I 25 weight X of Polysulfone I Example 6 50 weight of Polyketone I 50 weight of Polysulfone I Example 7 35 weight S of Polyketone I 65 weight of Polysulfone I Example 8 20 weight of Polyketone I 80 weight of Polysulfone I Example 9 10 weight Ib of Polyketone I 90 weight of Polysulfone I The blends were compression molded into 20 mil thick, 4 x 4 inch plaques at 3600C. in a cavity mold. The calorimetric data and crystallization rate data were obtained using a Perkin Elmer DSC 2.the results are listed in Table III. Here it should be noted that the addition of Polysulfone I toPolyketone I slows the crystallization rate of the latter. This manifests itself as a reduction inTc and an increase in tc with polysulfone content. Further, the melting point of the polyketone and the glsss transition of the polysulfone decrease slightly with the addition of the other component. TABLE IIICALORIMETRIC AND CRYSTALLIZATION RATE DATA 79 POLY 50 POLY 35 POLY 20 POLY 10 POLYKETONE I KETONE I KETONE I KETONE I KETONE I 25 POLY 50 POLY 65 POLY 80 POLY 90 POLY POLYKETONE I SULFONE I SULFONE I SULFONE I SULFONE I SULFONE IT C 140 212 210 207 212T C 337 356 334 334 335 332 Nf cal gr 7.9 6.1 3.6 2.4 1.2 0.6Tc C 10 C min Cooling 297 291 288 286 262 NC cal gr 9.9 7.5 4.5 3.1 1.1TC C 160 C min cooling 251 240 232T C after cooling 142 208 209 209 209 at 160 C min c seconds 310 C 212 415 300 C 79 137 205 232 345 290 C 31 72 92 100 135 280 C 62 65 77 Tg of Polyketone I, other Tg values for polysulfone I rich phase.Tg of Poysulfone I as molded 215 C after quench at 160 C min Tg 215 C.Tg and Tm determined with heating rate of 10 C min. Tc determined at noted cooling rate after heating above Tm.tc is the time required to reach maximum crystallization rate after heating above Tm and colling at 160 C min to designated temperature. Example 10 50 weight percent of Polyketone II and 50 weight percent of Polysulfone I were blended in aBrabender blender at 3900C. The blend was compression molded at 3800C into 20 mil thick 4 x 4 inch plaques. The calorimetric and crystallization rate data were obtained using a Perkin Elmer DSC 2.Again, a reduction in crystallization rate is seen. The results are shown in Table IV. TABLE IV CALORIMETRIC AND CRYSTALLIZATION RATE DATA 50 POLY SULFONE I POLYKETONE 50 POLY II KETONE IITm, C heating at 363 360 ssHf, caligr 100C min 9.7 4.8Tc, eC cooling at 319 306 HC, cal gr 10 C min 13.9 6.1 tc seconds 84 280 commat 320 C 84 280 commat 310 C 59 145 commat 300 C 104 commat 290 C 85 ExamPle 11 50 weight percent of Polyketone I was blended with 50 weight percent of Polysulfone III in a Brabender blender at 390 C. The blend was compression molded at 3700C into 20 mil thick 4 x 4 inch plaques.The calorimetric and crystallization rate data were obtained using a Perkin Elmer DSC 2 The results are shown in Table V. ExamPle 12 The procedure of Example 11 was exactly repeated except that 80 weight percent of PolyketoneI was blended with 20 weight percent of PolysulfoneII. The results are shown in Table V. Examples 11 and 12 again demonstrate the reduction in crystallization kinetics when a biphenyl containing poly sryl ether sulfone is mixed with a crystalline polyketone. TABLE VCALOMETRIC AND CRYSTALIZATION RATE DATA 50 POLY 80 POLY POLY KETONE I KETONE IKETONE 50 POLY 20 POLYI SULFONE III SULFONE IITm, C heating at 337 338 337 Hf, cal gr 10 C min 7.9 4.2 7.2Tc, C cooling at 297 289 287 Hc, cal gr 10 C min 9.9 5.5 8.8 tc seconds commat 320 C 212 625 720 commat 310 C 79 200 214 commat 300 C 51 101 109 commat 290 C 74 77 Control In order to compare the characteristics of a poly aryl ether sulfone not containing a biphenyl unit in the backbone in blends with poly aryl ether ketone , Control Polysulfone was chosen.A 50 50 blend of Control PolysulfonelPolyketone I was prepared by extrusion at 360 c. Injection molded samples were prepared for mechanical property testing and compression molded samples were prepared for environmental stress rupture resistance. The results of this blend are compared with Example 4, i.e., 8 50150 blend of Polysulfone I and folyketone I. The environmental stress rupture resistance of the biphenol based Polysulfone I Polyketone I blend was significantly superior to the Control Polysulfoneipolyketone t blend. TABLE VI CONTROL 50 POLYSULFONE I 50 POLYSULFONE 50 POLYKETONE I 50 POLYKETONE I mechanical Property ResultsTensile Modulus psi 414,000 438,000Tensile strength psi 11,500 12,300 s Elongation 90 132Notched Izod Impact Strength 2.6 1.6 ft lbslin of notch Tensile Impact Strength 138 164 ft lbs inê Environmental Stress Rupture ResultsEnvironment Stress Time to RuptureAcetone 2000 psi 2 hrs CiB 5 sec REthyl Acetate 2000 psi 2 hrs C 19 sec RToluene 2000 psi 2 hrs NCNB 0.24 hrs R Trichloroethylene 2000 psi 0.86 hrs R 0.032 hrs R Example 13 Control The following polymers were blended in aBrabender blender at 380 C Example 13 50 weight Polysulfone I 50 weight Polyketone I Control 50 weight Control Polysulfone 50 weight 5 Polyketone I The blends were molded in a specially designed compression mold at 3600C into thrust washers and tested for wear rate in a Falex No. 6 thrust washer testing machine as per ASTM D 3702.The wear results at three different PV pressure x velocity values are listed below Wear Rate incheslhour PV psi x ftlmin g 1000 2500 5000Example 13 6.3 x 10 5 1.18 x10 4 2.1 x 10 4 Control 7.3 x 10 5 1.5 x 10 4 4.33 x 10 Example 14 33 1 3 weight percent of Polysulfone I, 33 113 weight percent of Polyketone I and 33 1 3 weight percent of Polyetherimide were extruded in a 36J1 LID 1 inch single screw extruder at 3600C and injection molded st 3800C into ASTM test bars. The test bars were tested as described in Example 1. The mechanical property results are listed below in Table VII. It is of interest to point out that the molded specimens were transparent. TABLE VIIFlexural Modulus psi 428,000Flexural Strength 5 strain psi 16,900Notched Izod Impact Strength ft lbs in of notch 1.6Tensile Impact Strength z 151 ft lbslin2 Heat Distortion Temperature C 167 1 8 bar, 264 psi One of the property deficiencies of poly aryl ether ketones is the limited load bearing capabilities above the glsss transition temperature 140 to 2200C , the addition of the biphenyl containing polytsryl ether sulfones to poly aryl ether ketones will yield increased stiffness thus improved load bearing capabilities. The tensile modulus data listed below demonstrates this behavior. Tensile Modulus psi 175 C 2000CPolyketone I 56,000 42,000 75S Polyketone 1125 Poly sulfone I 75,000 50,000 50 Polyketone I 50 Poly sulfone I 106,000 49,000 35 Polyketone I 651 Poly sulfone I 135,000 103,000 Example 15 50 by weight of Polysulfone IV and 50 by weight of Polyketone I were mixed in a Brabender blender at 3800C. The blend was compression molded at 3800C in a cavity mold into 20 mil thick 4 x 4 inch plaques.Strips 1J8 inch wide were shear cut from the plaques and tested for 1 secant. modulus by a method similar to ASTM D 638 tensile strength and elongation at break sccording to ASTM D 638 environmental stress rupture resistance as inExamples 1 t9 4 and pendulum impact strength. Pendulum impact strength is measured as follows A steel pendulum is used, cylindrical in shape with a diameter of 0.83 inch and weighing 1.562 pounds the striking piece, mounted almost at the top of the pendulum is 8 cylinder 0.3 inch in diameter film specimens, 4 inches long, 0.125 inch wide and about 1 to 30 mils thick are clamped between the jaws of the tester so that the jaws are spaced 1 inch apart the 0.125 inch width of the film is mounted vertically the pendulum is raised to a constant height to deliver 1.13 foot pounds at the specimen when the pendulum is relessed the cylindrical striking piece hits the specimen with its flat end, breaks the film, and travels to a measured height beyond the difference in the recovery height i.e., the difference in the potential energy of the pendulum at the maximum point of the upswing represents the energy absorbed by the specimen during the rupture the impact strength, expressed in foot pounds per cubic inch, is obtained by dividing the pendulum energy loss by the volume of the specimen . The results are given in Table VIII. Also given or comparison are the properties ofPolysulfone IV and Polyketone I determined on specimens prepared and tested as described above.Note that the stress crack resistance of the Polysulfone IV is greatly improved with the addition of the polyketone. Also note that the elongation of break of the blend of Example 15 is much greater than that of Polysulfone IV or Polyketone I. TABLE VIII Poly Poly sulfone IV ketone I ExamPle 15 1 secant modulus 246 391 225 ksi Tensile strength 11,600 13,300 13,000 psi Elongation at break 5 8.2 33 107Pendulum Impact Strength ft lbs ln3 132 170 118Environmental StressRupture ResistanceEnvironment StressEthyl Acetate 2,000 0.07 hr R 42.6 hrs NCNB 1,1,1 trichloroethane 5,000 0.27 hr R 1.7 hr RToluene 2,000 1.13 hr R 64.6 hrs NCNBAcetone 1,000 22 hr NCNB 27.1 hrs NCNBR a RuptureNCNB e Not crazed, not brittleDISCUSSION OF RESULTS Blends of poly aryl ether ketones and poly aryl ether sulfones exhibit excellent mechanical compatibility.The results indicate that a low level of miscibility is observed in these blends as the Tg of the polytaryl ether sulfone is slightly decreased and the crystallization kinetics of the poly aryl ether ketone are slower. The decrease in Tc crystallization temperature , the decrease in Tm crystallization melting point , and the increase in time to maximum crystallization rate tc are all indicative of limited miscibility of the poly aryl ether sulfones with the poly aryl ether ketones . Also desired in these blends at intermediate compositions will be good environmental stress rupture resistance.At a weight ratio of 50150 Polysulfone I Polyketone I and poly ether sulfone , i.e., Control Polysulfone Polyketone I the Polysulfone f Polyketone I blend exhibits significantly better environmental stress rupture resistance than the poly ether sulfone , i.e.,Control PolysulfonelPolyketone I blend. The same may be said for the blend of PolysulfoneIV Polyketone I. Polysulfone II and III which contain a biphenyl unit in the main chain also yield limited miscibility with poly aryl ether ketone based on crystallization temperature decrease and increased time to reach maximum crystallization rate. The addition of poly aryl ether ketones to the biphenyl cottaining poly aryl ether sulfones will lead to improved solvent resistance and environmental stress rupture resistance. The addition of the biphenyl containing poly aryl ether sulfones to poly aryl ether ketones will yield improved toughness and higher modulus thus load bearing capabilities in the range between the poly sryl ether Acetone Tg 1400C to 1700C and the poly aryl ether sulfone Tg 2200 to 2900C .This is an important improvement as the load bearing capability of the poly aryl ether ketones is limited above the Tg The aforementioned improvement in toughness is especially true for the blend of PolysulfoneIV Polyketone I Example 15 where the blend has a much greater elongation at break than either of the constituents. It is postulated that this may be due to the partial miscibility of biphenyl containing polysulfones and poly aryl ether ketones which suppresses the crystallinity of the latter. Crystallinity is well known to reduce toughness over the chemically equivalent amorphous material. It is interesting to note that blends ofPolysulfone I and Polyketone I are reasonably t ansparent if quenched to prevent crystallization indicating a high degree of mixing and or possibly matched refractive indices. The blend of ControlPolysulfone and Polyketone I was opaque.