# POSTAGE METER APPARATUS AND PROCESS EMPLOYING COMPUTER CONTROLLED D.C. MOTOR FOR INDEXING POSTAGE VALUE CHANGING MEANS

## Claims
Frankierwerkvorrichtung, mit einer rotierenden Portodrucktrommel 38 , die Einrichtungen 43, 44, 45 zum Verändern jeweiliger, zu druckender Portowerte umfaßt, Einrichtungen 40a, 40b, 76, 90 zum Betätigen der Veränderungseinrichtungen, und Einrichtungen zum Schalten der Veränderungseinrichtungen in Eingriff mit der Betätigungseinrichtung, wobei die Schalteinrichtung umfaßt

## Description
The present invention is generally concerned with postage meter apparatus including mailing machines, and with processes applicable thereto. In U.S. Patent No. 2,934,009 issued April 26, 1960 to Bach, et al. and assigned to the assignee of the present invention there is described a postage meter which includes a drive mechanism connected by means of a drive train to a postage meter drum. The drive mechanism includes a single revolution clutch for rotating the drum from a home position and into engagement with a letter fed to the drum. The drum prints a postage value on the letter while feeding the same downstream beneath the drum as the drum returns to the home position. Each revolution of the single revolution clutch and thus the drum, is initiated by the letter engaging a trip lever to release the helical spring of the single revolution clutch. The velocity versus time profile of the peripherary of a drum driven by the clutch approximates a trapezoidal configuration, having acceleration, constant velocity and deceleration portions, fixed by the particular clutch and drive train used in the application. This being the case, the throughput rate of any mailing machine associated with the meter is dictated by the cycling speed of the postage meter rather than by the speed with which the individual mailpieces are fed to the postage meter. Further, although the single revolution clutch structure has served as the workhorse of the industry for many years it has long been recognized that it is a complex mechanism which is relatively expensive to construct and maintain, does not precisely follow the ideal trapezoidal velocity vs. time motion profile which is preferred for drum motion, tends to be unreliable in high volume applications, and is noisy and thus irritating to customers. EP A 0 111 321 relates to methods and apparatus for initializing the print wheels in an electronic postage meter comprising an optical encoder disk for determining the position of a stepper motor shaft. A closed loop stepper control with auto synchronization of encoder feedback is known from the IBM Technical Disclosure Bulletin, vol.24, no.10, March 1982, pp. 5013 5014. The proposed system controls acceleration, deceleration and speed of a motor by automatically determining and varying the US A 4 263 537 reveals a method for controlled positioning of a motor shaft by providing a polygonal speed versus displacement profile. A counter counts incremental angular displacements, and when half of the desired displacements have been traversed, the motor is braked by alternately switching the motor current in the forward and reverse directions. However,none of these documents discloses providing counts respectively representative of desired and actual angular displacements of the motor output shaft during successive sampling periods for compensating for the difference therebetween. Accordingly, an object of the invention is to replace the postage meter drum drive mechanism of the prior art with the combination of a D.C. motor and a computer, and program the computer for causing the D.C. motor to drive the drum in accordance with an ideal trapezoidal shaped velocity versus time profile which is a function of the input velocity of a mailpiece. As disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,287,825 issued September 8, 1981 to Eckert et al and assigned to the assignee of the present invention, the postage meter s drum has mounted therein conventional postage value changing apparatus, including a plurality of print wheels, each of which is provided with a plurality of digit or print elements. In addition, the postage meter drum s drive shaft has slidably mounted therein a plurality of racks which are disposed on a one for one basis in engagement with the print wheels. In addition, there is disclosed the provision of a postage value selection mechanism which is coupled to the drum drive shaft. The selection mechanism includes a first stepper motor and an associated gear train for selecting any one of the racks of the postage value changing apparatus and a second stepper motor and associated gear train for actuating the selected rack. The rack selection stepper motor, which is known in the art as a bank selection motor, is conventionally energized for selecting the appropriate rack to select the appropriate print wheel to be rotated and the rack actuating stepper motor, which is known in the art as a digit section motor, is conventionally energized for actuating the selected rack to rotate the selected print wheel for selecting the print element to be printed. Assuming the provision of a D.C. motor for driving the drum under the control of a computer, the drum may be selectively indexed by means of the D. C. motor for rack selection purposes as a consequence of which the rack selection stepper motor and its associated gear train may be eliminated and the gear train associated with the digit selection stepper motor may be simplified to include a single rack actuating gear. Accordingly, another object of the invention is to provide postage value selection means including a D.C. motor coupled to a postage meter drum and controlled by a computer and Another object is to provide a postage meter, including a rotary postage printing drum, with a D.C. motor controlled by a computer, wherein the computer is programmed for controlling the drum for postage value selection purposes and for postage printing purposes. According to one aspect of the invention, there is provided, in combination with a postage meter including a rotary postage printing drum having means for changing respective postage values to be printed, and including means for actuating the changing means, an improvement for indexing the changing means into engagement with the actuating means, the improvement comprising a d.c. motor coupled to the drum for rotation thereof means for sensing angular displacement of the drum and computer means coupled to the sensing means and to the d.c. motor, the computer means comprising means for providing respective amounts representative of desired angular displacements of the drum during successive sampling time periods, means responsive to the sensing means for providing respective amounts representative of actual angular displacements of the drum during successive sampling time periods, and means for compensating for the difference between desired and actual angular displacements and generating a d.c. motor control signal for controlling rotation of the motor to cause the changing means to be indexed into engagement with the actuating means. For a better understanding of the invention, and to show how the same may be carried into effect, reference will now be made, by way of example, to the accompanying drawings, in which like reference numerals designate like or corresponding parts throughout the several views, and in which As shown in Fig. 1, the apparatus in which the invention may be incorporated generally includes an electronic postage meter 10 which is suitably removably mounted on a conventional mailing machine 12, so as to form therewith a slot 14 Fig. 2 through which sheets, including mailpieces 16, such as envelopes, cards or other sheet like materials, may be fed in a downstream path of travel 18. The postage meter 10 Fig. 1 includes a keyboard 30 and display 32. The keyboard 30 includes a plurality of numeric keys, labeled 0 9 inclusive, a clear key, labeled c and a decimal point key, labeled . , for selecting postage values to be entered a set postage key, labeled s , for entering selected postage values and an arithmetic function key, labeled , for adding subsequently selected charges such as special delivery costs to a previously selected postage value before entry of the total value. In addition, there is provided a plurality of display keys, designated 34, each of which are provided with labels well known in the art for identifying information stored in the meter 10, and shown on the display 32 in response to depression of the particular key 34, such as the postage used , postage unused , control sum , piece count , batch value and batch count values. A more detailed description of the keys of the keyboard 30 and the display 32, and their respective functions may be found in U.S. Patent No. 4,283,721 issued August 11, 1981 to Eckert, et al. and assigned to the assignee of the present invention. In addition, the meter 10 Fig. 1 includes a casing 36, on which the keyboard 30 and display 32 are conventionally mounted, and which is adapted by well known means for carrying a cyclically operable, rotary, postage printing drum 38. The drum 38 Fig. 2 is conventionally constructed and arranged for feeding the respective mailpieces 16 in the path of travel 18, which extends beneath the drum 38, and for printing entered postage on the upwardly disposed surface of each mailpiece 16. For postage value selecting purposes, the meter 10 Fig. 1 also includes a conventional digit selection stepper motor 40 and a computer 41. For postage value changing purposes, the postage meter 10 conventionally includes a plurality racks 43 which are rotatable with the drum 38 and associated on a one for one basis with a plurality of print wheels 44. Each of the print wheels 44 is conventionally rotatably mounted within the drum 38 and includes a pinion gear 44a disposed in engagement with the associated rack 43, whereby lengthwise movement of each of the racks 43 results in rotation of its associated print wheel 44. The outer periphery of each of the print wheels 44 includes a plurality of digit or print elements 45, each of which corresponds to a different one of the numerals of the numeric keys 0 9 inclusive or the decimal point . of the decimal point key of the keyboard 30. Accordingly, selective actuation of the respective racks 43 corresponding to a postage value entered at the keyboard 30 will result in rotating the appropriate print wheels 44 for moving the selected print element 45 thereof to the outer periphery of the drum 38 for printing a postage value corresponding to the keyboard entered value. According to the invention, the output shaft 40a of the digit selection stepper motor 40 includes an output gear 40b which is conventionally connected to the shaft 40a for driving by the stepper motor 40. And, for controlling the stepper motor 40, the motor 40 is preferably conventionally operably electrically coupled via the postage meter s computer 41 to the keyboard 30 and display 32. Assuming selective rotation of the drum 38 for selectively rotating the respective racks 43 into engagement with the output gear 40b, as hereinafter disucssed, the stepper motor 40 may be conventionally energized via power lines 47 from the computer 41 to move the selected rack 43 for selecting the appropriate digit element 45 of the associated print wheel 44 for printing purposes. The computer 41 for the postage meter 10 generally comprises a conventional, microcomputer system having a plurality of microcomputer modules including a control or keyboard and display module, 41a, an accounting module 41b and a printing module 41c. The control module 41a is both operably electrically connected to the accounting module 41b and adapted to be operably electrically connected to an external device via respective two way serial communications channels, and the accounting module 41b is operably electrically connected to the printing module 41c via a corresponding two way serial communication channel. In general, each of the modules 41a, 41b and 41c includes a dedicated microprocessor 41d, 41e or 41f, respectively, having a separately controlled clock and programs. And two way communications are conducted via the respective serial communication channels utilizing the echoplex communication discipline, wherein communications are in the form of serially transmitted single byte header only messages, consisting of ten bits including a start bit followed by an 8 bit byte which is in turn followed by a stop bit, or in the form of a multi byte message consisting of a header and one or more additional bytes of information. Further, all transmitted messages are followed by a no error pulse if the message was received error free. In operation, each of the modules 41a, 41b and 41c is capable of processing data independently and asynchronously of the other. In addition, to allow for compatibility between the postage meter 10 and any external apparatus, all operational data transmitted to, from and between each of the three modules 41a, 41b and 41c, and all stored operator information, is accessible to the external device via the two way communication channel, as a result of which the external apparatus if any may be adapted to have complete control of the postage meter 10 as well as access to all current operational information in the postage meter 10. In addition, the flow of messages to, from and between the three internal modules 41a, 41b and 41c is in a predetermined, hierarchical direction. For example, any command message from the control module 41a is communicated to the accounting module 41b, where it is processed either for local action in the accounting module 41b and or as a command message for the printing module 41c. On the other hand, any message from the printing module 41c is communicated to the accounting module 41b where it is either used as internal information or merged with additional data and communicated to the control module 41c. And, any message from the accounting module 41b is initially directed to the printing module 41c or to the control module 41a. A more detailed description of the various prior art modules 41a, 41b and 41c, and various modifications thereof, may be found in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,280,180 4,280,179 4,283,721 and 4,301,507 each of which patents is assigned to the assignee of the present invention. The mailing machine 12 Fig. 2 , which has a casing 19, includes a A.C. power supply 20 which is adapted by means of a power line 22 to be connected to a local source of supply of A.C. power via a normally open main power switch 24 which may be closed by the operator. Upon such closure, the mailing machine s D.C. power supply 26 is energized via the power line 28. In addition, the mailing machine 12 includes a conventional belt type conveyor 49, driven by an A.C. motor 50, which is connected for energization from the A.C. power supply 20 via a conventional, normally open solid state, A.C. motor, relay 52, which is timely energized by a computer 500 for closing the relay 52. Upon such closure the A.C. motor 50 drives the conveyor 49 for feeding mailpieces 16 to the drum 38. To facilitate operator control of the switch 24, the mailing machine preferably includes a keyboard 53 having a start key 53a and a stop key 53b, which are conventionally coupled to the main power switch 24 to permit the operator to selectively close and open the switch 24. Assuming the computer 500 has timely energized the relay 52, the A.C. motor 50 is energized from the A.C. power supply 20. Whereupon the conveyor 49 transports the individual mailpieces 16, at a velocity corresponding to the angular velocity of the motor 50, in the path of travel 18 to the postage printing platen 54. According to the invention, the machine 12 includes first and second sensing devices respectively designated 56 and 58, which are spaced apart from each other a predetermined distance d₁, i.e., the distance between points A and B in the path of travel 18. Preferably, each of the sensing devices 56 and 58, is an electro optical device which is suitably electrically coupled to the computer 500 sensing device 56 being connected via communication line 60 and sensing device 58 being connected via communication line 62. The sensing devices 56, 58 respectively respond to the arrival of a mailpiece 16 at points A and B by providing a signal to the computer 500 on communication line 60 from sensing device 56 and on communication line 62 from sensing device 58. Thus, the rate of movement or velocity V1 of any mailpiece 16 may be calculated by counting the elapsed time t Assuming normal operation of the transport system and calculation of the value of V1 having been made, the time delay t For computer implementation purposes, the computer 500 is programmed as hereinbefore discussed to continously poll the communication lines 60 and 62, from the sensing devices 56 and 58, respectively, each time interval T The postage meter 10 Fig. 1 additionally includes a conventional, rotatably mounted, shaft 74 on which the drum 38 is fixedly mounted and to which postage value selection racks 43 are conventionally slidably connected. In addition, the meter 10 includes a conventional drive gear 76, which is fixedly attached to the shaft 74 for rotation of the shaft 74. According to the invention, the mailing machine 12 Fig. 1 includes an idler shaft 80 which is conventionally journaled to the casing 19 for rotation, and, operably coupled to the shaft 80, a conventional home position encoder 82. The encoder 82 includes a conventional circularly shaped disc 84, which is fixedly attached to the shaft 80 for rotation therewith, and an optical sensing device 86, which is operably coupled to the disc 84 for detecting an opening 88 formed therein and, upon such detection, signalling the computer 500. The machine 12, also includes an idler gear 90 which is fixedly attached to the shaft 80 for rotation therewith. Further, the machine 12 includes a D.C. motor 120, which is suitably attached to the casing 19 and has a drive shaft 122. The machine 12 also includes a pinion gear 124, which is fixedly attached to the drive shaft 122 for rotation by the shaft 122. The gear 124 is disposed in driving engagement with the idler gear 90. Accordingly, rotation of the motor drive shaft 122 in a given direction, results in the same direction of rotation of the drum drive shaft 76 and thus the drum 38. Preferably, the pinion gear 124 has one fifth the number of teeth as the drum drive gear 76, whereas the idler gear 90 and drum drive gear 76 each have the same number of teeth. With this arrangement, five complete revolutions of the motor drive shaft 122 effectuate one complete revolution of the drum 38, whereas each revolution of the gear 90 results in one revolution of the gear 76. Since there is a one to one relationship between revolutions, and thus incremental angular displacements, of the drum shaft 74 and idler shaft 90, the encoder disc 84 may be mounted on the idler shaft 90 such that the disc s opening 88 is aligned with the sensing device 86 when the drum 38 is disposed in its home position to provide for detection of the home position of the drum shaft 74, and thus a position of the drum shaft 74 from which incremental angular displacements may be counted. For sensing actual incremental angular displacements of the motor drive shaft 122 Fig. 1 from a home position, and thus incremental angular displacements of the drum 38 from its rest or home position as shown in Fig. 2, there is provided a quadrature encoder 126 Fig. 1 . The encoder 126 is preferably coupled to the motor drive shaft 122, rather than to the drum shaft 74, for providing higher mechanical stiffness between the armature of the d.c. motor 120 and the encoder 126 to avoid torsional resonance effects in the system. The encoder 126 includes a circularly shaped disc 128, which is fixedly attached to the motor drive shaft 122 for operably connecting the encoder 126 to the motor 120. The disc 128 Fig. 4 which is otherwise transparent to light, has a plurality of opague lines 130 which are formed on the disc 128 at predetermined, equidistantly angularly spaced, intervals along at least one of the dics s opposed major surfaces. Preferably the disc 128 includes one hundred and ninety two lines 130 separated by a like number of transparent spaces 132. In addition, the encoder 126 includes an optical sensing device 134, which is conventionally attached to the casing 19 and disposed in operating relationship with respect to the disc 128, for serially detecting the presence of the respective opaque lines 130 as they successively pass two reference positions, for example, positions 136ra and 136rb, and for responding to such detection by providing two output signals, one on each of communications lines 136a and 136b, such as signal A Fig. 5 on line 136a and signal B on line 136b. Since the disc 128 Fig. 4 includes 192 lines 130 and the gear ratio of the drum drive gear 76 Fig. 1 to the motor pinion gear 124 is five to one, nine hundred and sixty signals A and B Fig. 5 are provided on each of the communications lines 136a and 136b during five revolutions of the motor drive shaft 122, and thus, during each cycle of rotation of the drum 38. Since the angular distance between successive lines 130 Fig. 4 is a constant, the time interval between successive leading edges Fig. 5 of each signal A and B is inversely proportional to the actual velocity of rotation of the motor drive shaft Fig. 1 and thus of the drum 38. The encoder 126 is conventionally constructed and arranged such that the respective reference positions 136a and 136b Fig. 4 are located with respect to the spacing between line 130 to provide signals A and B Fig. 5 which are 90 electrical degrees out of phase. Accordingly, if signal A lags signal B by 90 Fig. 5 the D.C. motor shaft 122 Fig. 1 , and thus the drum 38, is rotating clockwise, whereas if signal A leads signal B by 90 Fig. 5 the shaft 122 and drum 38 are both rotating counter clockwise. Accordingly, the angular displacement in either direction of rotation of the drum 38 Fig. 1 from its home position may be incrementally counted by counting the number of pulses A or B, Fig. 5 as the case may be, and accounting for the lagging or leading relationship of pulse A Fig. 5 with respect to pulse B. The quadrature encoder communication lines, 136a and 136b Fig. 1 , may be connected either directly to the computer 500 for pulse counting thereby or to the computer 500 via a conventional counting circuit 270 Fig. 6 , depending on whether or not the internal counting circuitry of the computer 500 is or is not available for such counting purposes in consideration of other design demands of the system in which the computer 500 is being used. Assuming connection to the computer 500 via a counting circuit 270, the aforesaid communications lines, 136a and 136b are preferably connected via terminals A and B, to the counting circuit 270. In general, the counting circuit 270 Fig. 6 utilizes the pulses A Fig. 5 to generate a clock signal and apply the same to a conventional binary counter 274 Fig. 6 , and to generate an up or down count depending on the lagging or leading relationship of pulse A Fig. 5 relative to pulse B and apply the up or down count to the binary counter 274 Fig. 6 for counting thereby. More particularly, the pulses A and B Fig. 5 which are applied to the counting circuit terminals A and B Fig. 6 are respectively fed to Schmidt trigger inverters 276A and 276B. The output from the inverter 276A is fed directly to one input of an XOR gate 278 and additionally via an R C delay circuit 280 and an inverter 282 to the other input of the XOR gate 278. The output pulses from the XOR gate 278, which acts as a pulse frequency doubler, is fed to a conventional one shot multivibrator 284 which detects the trailing edge of each pulse from the XOR gate 278 and outputs a clock pulse to the clock input CK of the binary counter 274 for each detected trailing edge. The output from the Schmidt trigger inverters 276A and 276B are respectively fed to a second XOR gate 286 which outputs a low logic level signal zero , or up count, to the up down pins U D of the binary counter 274 for each output pulse A Fig. 5 which lags an output pulses B by 90 electrical degrees. On the other hand the XOR gate 286 Fig. 6 outputs a high logic level one or down count, to the up down input pins of the binary counter 274 for each encoder output pulse A Fig. 5 which leads an output pulse B by 90 electrical degrees. Accordingly, the XOR gate 286 Fig. 6 provides an output signal for each increment of angular displacement of the encoded shaft 122 Fig. 1 and identifies the direction, i.e., clockwise or counter clockwise, of rotation of the encoded shaft 122. The binary counter 274 Fig. 6 counts the up and down count signals from the XOR gate 286 whenever any clock signal is received from the multivibrator 284, and updates the binary output signal 272 to reflect the count. Accordingly, the counting circuit 270 converts the digital signals A and B, which are representative of incremental angular displacements of the drive shaft 122 in either direction of rotation thereof, to an eight bit wide digital logic output signal 272 which corresponds to a summation count at any given time, of such displacements, multiplied by a factor of two, for use by the computer 500. Since the angular displacement of the shaft 122 from its home position is proportional to the angular displacement of the drum 38 from its home position, the output signal 272 is a count which is proportional to the actual linear displacement of the outermost periphery of the drum 38 at the end of a given time period of rotation of the drum 38 from its home position. For a typical postage meter drum 38, having a circumference, i.e., the arc described by the outermost periphery of the drum 38 in the course of revolution thereof, of 9.42 inches, which is connected to the motor drive shaft 122 via a mechanical transmission system having a 5 1 gear ratio between the motor 120 and drum 38, wherein the encoder disc 128 has 192 lines the counting circuit 270 will provide an output of 2 x 192 384 counts per revolution of the shaft 122, and 5 x 384 1920 counts per revolution of the drum 38 which corresponds to 203.82 counts per inch of linear displacement of the periphery of the drum. Accordingly, the maximum mailpiece transport velocity of V1 61 10 ³ inches per millisecond may be multiplied by a scale factor of 203.82 counts per inch to express the maximum transport velocity in terms of counts per millisecond, or, counts per sampling time period T where T 1 millisecond i.e., 61 10 ³ inches per millisecond times 203.82 counts per inch 12.43 counts per sampling time period T. Similarly, any other target velocity V1, or any acceleration or decceleration value, may be expressed in terms of counts per sampling time interval T, or counts per square millisecond, as the case may be, by utilization of the aforesaid scale factor. For energizing the D.C. motor 120 Fig. 1 there is provided a power amplifying circuit 300. The power amplifying circuit 300 Fig. 7 is conventionally operably connected to the motor terminals 302 and 304 via power lines 306 and 308 respectively. The power amplifying circuit 300 preferably comprises a conventional, H type, push pull, control signal amplifier 301 having input leads A, B, C and D, a plurality of optical electrical isolator circuits 303 which are connected on a one for one basis between the leads A D and four output terminals of the computer 500 for coupling the control signals from the computer 500 to the input leads A, B, C, and D of the amplifier 301, and a plurality of conventional pull up resistors 305 for coupling the respective leads A D to the 5 volt source. The amplifier 301 includes four conventional darlington type, pre amplifier drive circuits including NPN transistors T1, T2, T3 and T4, and four, conventional, darlington type power amplifier circuits including PNP transistors Q1, Q2, Q3 and Q4 which are respectively coupled on a one for one basis to the collectors of transistors T1, T2, T3 and T4 for driving thereby. The optical electrical isolator circuits 303 each include a light emitting diode D1 and a photo responsive transistor T5. The cathodes of D1 are each connected to the 5 volt source, the emitters of T5 are each connected to ground and the collectors of T5 are each coupled, on a one for one basis, to the base of one of the transistors T1, T2, T3 and T4. With respect to each of the opto isolator circuits 303, when a low logic level signal is applied to the anode of D1, D1 conducts and illuminates the base of T5 thereby driving T5 into its conductive state whereas when a high logic level signal is applied to the anode of D1, D1 is non conductive, as a result of which T5 is in its non conductive state. With respect to each of the combined amplifier circuits, T1 and Q1, T2 and Q2, T3 and Q3, and T4 and Q4, when the lead A, B, C or D, as the case may be, is not connected to ground via the collector emitter circuit of the associated opto isolator circuit s transistor T5, the base of T1, T2, T3 or T4, as the case may be, draws current from the 5 volt source via the associated pull up resistor 305 to drive the transistor T1, T2, T3 or T4, as the case may be, into its conductive state. As a result, the base of transistor Q1, Q2, Q3 or Q4, as the case may be, is clamped to ground via the emitter collector circuit of its associated driver transistor T1, T2, T3 or T4, thereby driving the transistor Q1, Q2, Q3 or Q4, as the case may be, into its conductive state. Contrariwise, the transistor pairs T1 and Q1, T2 and Q2, T3 and Q3, and T4 and Q4 are respectively biased to cut off when lead A, B, C or D, as the case may be, is connected to ground via the collector emitter circuit of the associated opto isolator circuit s transistor T5. As shown in the truth table Fig. 8 for clockwise motor rotation, Q1 and Q4 are turned on and Q2 and Q3 are turned off whereas for counter clockwise motor rotation, Q2 and Q3 are turned on and Q1 and Q4 are turned off. Accordingly, for clockwise motor rotation terminal 302 Fig. 7 of the motor 120 is connected to the 30 volt source via the emitter collector circuit of Q1, which occurs when Q2 is turned off and the base of Q1 is grounded through the emitter collector circuit of T1 due to the base of T1 drawing current from the 5 volt source in the presence of a high logic level control signal at input terminal A and terminal 304 of the motor 120 is connected to ground via the emitter collector circuit of Q4, which occurs when Q3 is turned off and the base of Q4 is grounded through the emitter collector circuit of T4 due to the base of T4 drawing current from the 5 volt source in the presence of a high logic level signal at the input terminal D. On the other hand, for counter clockwise rotation of the motor 120 terminal 302 of the motor 120 is connected to ground via the emitter collector circuit of Q2, which occurs when Q1 is turned off and the base of Q2 is grounded through the emitter collector circuit of T2 due to the base of T2 drawing current from the 5 volt source in the presence of a high logic level control signal at the input terminal B and terminal 304 of the motor 120 is connected to the 30 volt source via the emitter collector circuit of Q3, which occurs when Q4 is turned off and the base of Q3 is grounded through the emitter collector of T3 due to the base of T3 drawing current from the 5 volt source in the presence of a high logic level control signal at the input terminal C. For turning off the respective powers transistors Q1 Q4, on a two at a time basis, low level control signals are applied on a selective basis to the two terminals B and C, or A and D, as the case may be, to which high logic control level signals are not being applied which occurs when the opto isolator circuit s transistors T5 associated with the respective leads B and C or A and D are driven to their conductive states. When this occurs the bases of the transistors T2 and T3, or T1 and T4, as the case may be, are biased to open the emitter collectors circuits of the transistors T2 and T3, or T1 and T4, as the case may be, as a result of which the bases of the transistors Q2 and Q3, or Q1 and Q4, as the case may be, are biased to open the emitter collector circuits of transistors Q2 and Q3, or Q1 and Q4, as the case may be. The velocity of the motor 120 Fig. 7 is controlled by modulating the pulse width and thus the duty cycle of the high logic level, constant frequency, control signals, i.e., pulse width modulated PWM signals, which are timely applied on a selective basis to two of the leads A D, while applying the low level logic signals to those of leads A D which are not selected. For example, assuming PWM signals Fig. 9 having a 50 duty cycle are applied to leads A and D Fig. 7 , and low level logic signals are applied to leads B and C, for clockwise rotation of the motor 120, the velocity of the motor 120 will be greater than it would be if high logic level PWM signals Fig. 9 having a 25 duty cycle were similarly applied and will be less than it would be if high logic level PWM signals having a 75 duty cycle were similarly applied. Accordingly, assuming rotation of the motor 120 Fig. 7 is commenced by utilizing high logic level PWM signals having a given duty cycle percentage, the velocity of the motor 120 may be decreased or increased, as the case may be, by respectively decreasing or increasing the duty cycle percentage of the applied high logic level PWM signals. Further, assuming the motor 120 is rotating clockwise due to PWM signals having a selected positive average value being applied to leads A and D, in combination with low level logic signals being applied to leads B and C, the motor 120 may be dynamically braked by temporarily applying high level PWM signals having a selected duty cycle corresponding to a given positive average value to leads B and C, in combination with low logic signals being applied to leads A and D. To avoid damage to the power transistors Q1, Q2, Q3 and Q4 which might otherwise result, for example, due to current spikes accompanying back emf surges which occur in the course of switching the circuit 301 from one mode of operation to the other, the emitter collector circuits of the power transistors Q1, Q2, Q3 and Q4 are respectively shunted to the 30 volt source by appropriately poled diodes, D1, D2, D3 and D4 connected across the emitter collector circuits of Q1, Q2, Q3 and Q4. To control the motion of the drum 38 Fig. 1 during each cycle of drum rotation, the D.C. motor 120 and its shaft encoder 126 are respectively connected to the computer 500 via the power amplifier circuit 300 and the counting circuit 270 And the computer 500 is programmed to calculate the duration of and timely apply PWM control signals to the power amplifier circuit 300 after each sampling time instant Tn, utilizing an algorithm based upon a digital compensator D s derived from analysis of the motor 120, motor load 38, 74, 76, 90 and 124 amplifying circuit 300, encoder 126, counting circuit 270, and the digital compensator D s in the closed loop, sampled data, servo control system shown in Fig. 10. With reference to Fig. 10, in general, at the end of each predetermined sampling time period of T 1 millisecond, the eight bit wide count representing the angular displacement of the motor drive shaft 122, and thus the drum 38, from its home position is sampled by the computer 500 at the time instant Tn. Under the control of the program of the computer 500 Fig. 10 , a summation is taken of the aforesaid actual count and the previously calculated count representing the desired position of the motor drive shaft 122, and thus the drum 38, at the end of the time period T, and, under control of the computer program implementation of the algorithm, a PWM control signal which is a function of the summation of the respective counts, or error, is applied to the power amplifier circuit 301 for rotating the motor drive shaft 122 such that the error tends to become zero at the end of the next sampling time period T. To derive the algorithm, the servo controlled system of Fig. 10 is preferably analyzed in consideration of its equivalent Laplace transformation equations shown in Fig. 11, which are expressed in terms of the following Table of Parameters and Table of Assumptions. With reference to Fig. 10, D S is the unknown transfer function of an open loop compensator in the frequency domain. Due to a key factor for providing acceptably fast motor response being the system s resonance between the motor and load, the derivation of the transfer function D S for stabilization of the system is preferably considered with a view to maximizing the range of frequencies within which the system will be responsive, i.e., maximizing the system s bandwidth, BW. For calculation purposes a sampling period of T 1 millisecond was chosen, due to having chosen a Model 8051 microprocessor, available from Intel Corporation, Palo Alto California, for control purposes, and inasmuch as the Model 8051 microprocessor equipped with a 12 MHz crystal for providing a clock rate of 12 MHz, is able to conveniently implement a 1 KHz sampling rate and also implement application software routines, after control algorithm iterations, during the sampling period of T 1 millisecond. However, other sampling periods and other conventional microprocessors may be utilized without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The open loop system gain H₁ S without compensation, of the servo loop system of Fig. 10 is shown in Fig. 12 a . To tolerate inaccuracies in the transmission system between the motor and drum load, such as backlash, it was considered acceptable to maintain a steady state count accuracy of plus or minus one count. To reflect this standard, the gain equation of Fig. 12 a was adjusted to provide a corrective torque C At this juncture, the Bode diagram shown in Fig. 13, may be constructed due to having calculated a minimum value for K By definition, a phase lead compensator D S has the Laplace transform shown in Fig. 14, wherein K At this juncture, the compensated system H₃ S is preferably analyzed with reference to the system s overshoot O As shown in Table III, the system bandwidth BW may be maximized at 450 radians per second while maintaining a phase margin ø Since the analog compensator D S was derived in the frequency domain, D S was converted to its Z transform equivalent D Z in the sampled data domain for realization in the form of a numerical algorithm for implementation by a computer. Of the numerous well known techniques for transforming a function in the frequency domain to a function in the sampled data domain, the bi linear transformation may be chosen. For bi linear transformation purposes the Laplace operator S is defined by the expression shown in Fig. 16. Using the values K Accordingly, the algorithm which is to be implemented by the computer 500 for system compensation purposes is a function of a plurality of historical increments of sampled data for computing an input value for controlling a load to follow a predetermined position trajectory in a closed loop sampled data servo control system. Although the compensation algorithm was derived with a view to maximizing the closed loop system bandwith for controlling the D.C. motor to cycle, the postage meter drum 38 the same compensation algorithm may be utilized for controlling rotation of the drum 38 for selectively indexing the racks 43 of the postage value changing means into engagement with the output gear 40b of the digit selection stepper motor 40. As distinguished from controlling the drum 38 as a function of the sampled velocity of a mailpiece 16, the racks 43 may each be successively indexed into engagement with the gear 40b as a function of amounts representatiave of a predetermined, trapezoidal shaped velocity versus time profile stored in the computer 500. Thus, a group of acceleration, deceleration and constant velocity constants may be conventionally stored in the computer 500 and fetched for calculating counts representatiave of the desired angular displacement of the motor output shaft 122 during each sampling time period T, for comparison with the counts representative of the actual angular displacement of the motor output shaft 122 during each sampling time period T, for indexing the drum 38 and thus the racks 43 to successively dispose each rack 43 in engagement with the gear 40b and to then drive the drum 38 to its home position. As shown in Fig. 20 the computer 500 preferably includes a conventional, inexpensively commercially available, high speed microprocessor 502, such as the Model 8051 single chip microprocessor commercially available from Intel Corporation, 3065 Bowers Avenue, Santa Clara, California 95051. The microprocessor 502, generally comprises a plurality of discrete circuits, including those of a control processor unit or CPU 504, an oscillator and clock 506, a program memory 508, a data memory 510, timer and event counters 512, programmable serial ports 514, programmable I O ports 516 and control circuits 518, which are respectively constructed and arranged by well known means for executing instructions from the program memory 508 that pertain to internal data, data from the clock 506, data memory 510, timer and event counter 512, serial ports 514, I O ports 514 interrupts 520 and or bus 522 and providing appropriate outputs from the clock 506, serial ports 514, I O ports 516 and timer 512. A more detailed discussion of the internal structural and functional characteristics and features of the Model 8051 microprocessor, including optional methods of programming port 3 for use as a conventional bidirectional port, may be found in the Intel Corporation publication entitled MCS 51 Family of Single Chip Microcomputers Users Manual, dated January 1981. For implementing the sampling time period of T 1 millisecond, one of the microprocessor s timer and event counters 512 Fig. 20 is conventionally programmed as a sampling time period clock source. To that end, a timer 512 is programmed for providing an interrupt signal each 250 microseconds, and each successive fourth interrupt signal is utilized as a clock signal for timing the commencement of successive sampling time periods of T 1 millisecond. In general, as shown in Fig. 21, at the commencement of each sampling time period of T 1 millisecond, during the sampling instant T Accordingly, as shown in Fig. 21, the microprocessor is programmed for immediately after calculating the then current compensation algorithm output value G T As shown in Fig. 22 the computer 500 is preferably modularly constructed for segregating the components of the logic circuit 501a and analog circuit 501b of the computer 500 from each other. To that end, the respective circuits 501a and 501b may be mounted on separate printed circuit boards which are electrically isolated from each other and adapted to be interconnected by means of connectors located along the respective dot dash lines 516, 527 and 528. In any event, the components of the logic circuit 521a and analog circuit 521b are preferably electrically isolated from each other. To that end, the logic circuit 501a preferably includes 5V and ground leads from the mailing machine s power supply for providing the logic circuit 501a with a local 5 volt source 530 having 5V and GND leads shunted by filter capacitors C1 and C2. And the analog circuit 501b includes 30 volt and ground return leads from the mailing machine s power supply for providing the analog circuit 501b with a local 30 volt source 536 including 30V and GND leads shunted by filter capacitors C3 and C4. In addition, the analog circuit 501b includes a conventional 30 volt detection circuit 542 having its input conventionally connected to the analog circuit s 30 volt source 536, and its output coupled to a power up down lead from the analog circuit via a conventional optical electrical isolator circuit 544. Further, to provide the analog circuit 501b with a local 5 volt source 546, the analog circuit 501b is equipt with a conventional regulated power supply having its input appropriately connected to the analog circuit s 30 volt source 536 via a series connected resistor R1 and a 5 volt, voltage regulator 548. A zener diode D1, having its cathode shunted to ground and having its anode connected to the input of the 5V regulator 548 and also connected via the resistor R1 to the 30 volt terminal line, is provided for maintaining the input to the 5V regulator 548 at substantially a 5 volt level. In addition, a pair of capacitors C5 and C6 are provided across the output of the regulator 548 for filtration purposes. To accommodate interfacing the postage meter s computer 41 Fig. 1 with the computer 500, any two available ports of the computer 41 may be programmed for two way serial communications purposes and coupled to the computer 500. For example, the postage meter s printing module 41c may be conventionally modified to include an additional two way serial communications channel for communication with the computer 500. Assuming the latter arrangement, serial input communications to the computer 500 Fig. 22 are received from the postage meter computer s printing module 41c via the serial input lead to the logic circuit 501a Fig. 22 , which is operably coupled to port P3₀ of the microprocessor 502 by means of a conventional inverting buffer circuit 550. Accordingly, port P3₀ is preferably programmed for serial input communications, and the input to the buffer circuit 550 is resistively coupled to the logic circuit s 5 volt source 530 via a conventional pull up resistor R2. Serial output communications from the microprocessor 502 are transmitted from port P3₁. Accordingly, port P3₁ is preferably programmed for serial output communications, and is operably coupled to the input of a conventional inverting buffer 552, the output of which is resistively coupled to the logic circuit s 5V source 530 via a suitable pull up resistor R2 and is additionally electrically connected to the serial output lead from the logic circuit 501a. Since it is preferable that the microprocessor 502 be reset in response to energization of the logic circuit 501a, the logic circuit s 5V source 530 is connected in series with an R C delay circuit and a conventional inverting buffer circuit 554 to the reset pin, RST, of the microprocessor 502. The R C circuit includes a suitable resistor R3 which is connected in series with the logic circuit s local 5V source 530 and a suitable capacitor C7 which has one end connected between the resistor R3 and the input to the buffer circuit 554, and the other end connected to the logic circuit s ground return. In addition to the VCC and GND i.e., VSS terminals of the microprocessor 502 being respectively conventionally connected to the logic circuit s 5 volt source and ground, since the microprocessor 502 does not utilize an external program memory, the In general, the microprocessor 502 is programmed for receiving input data from the postage meter drum s home position encoder 82 each of the envelope sensors 56, 58 and the D.C. motor shaft encoder 126, and, in response to a conventional communication from the postage meter s printing module 41c, timely energizing the D.C. motor under the control of the CPU of the microprocessor 502. Port P0 is programmed for receiving a transition signal representative of the disposition of the postage meter s drum 38 at its home position transition signals from the envelope sensors 56 and 58 which represent detection of the leading edge of a mailpiece or other sheet 16 being fed to the drum 38 to permit calculation by the computer 500 of the velocity of the mailpiece and thus the desired angular displacement of the D.C. motor shaft 122 and thus the drum 38 and a count representative of the actual angular displacement of the D.C. motor shaft 122. Preferably, port P0 is multiplexed to alternately receive inputs from groups of the various sensors, under the control of an output signal from Port P3₄ of the microprocessor 502. The shaft encoder 82 which is utilized for sensing the home position of the postage meter drum 38 is coupled to the computer 500 via the drum home position lead of the logic circuit, which, in turn, is connected to one input of a differential amplifier 562, the output of which is connected to the other input of the differential amplifier 562 via a feedback resistor R4. The aforesaid other input to the amplifier 562 is also resistively coupled, by means of a resistor R5, to the mid point of a voltage divider circuit including resistors R6 and R7. Resistors R6 and R7 are connected in series with each other and across the logic circuit s 5V source and ground return leads. The LED sensors 56 and 58, which are utilized for successively sensing the leading edges of each envelope being fed by the letter transport, are separately coupled to the computer 500 via the envelope sensor 1 and envelope sensor 2 input leads of the logic circuit 501a. In the logic circuit 501a, the envelope sensor 1 and sensor 2 leads are connected on a one for one basis to one of the inputs of a pair of conventional amplifiers 564, the other inputs of which are connected together and to the mid point of a voltage divider including resistors R8 and R9. Resistors R8 and R9 are connected in series with each other and across the logic circuit s 5V source and ground return leads. Further, the three output signals from the differential amplifiers 562 and the two amplifiers 564 are connected on a one for one basis to the three input ports PO₀ ₂ of the microprocessor 502, each via a conventional tri state buffer circuit 566, one of which is shown. The input signals A and B from the D.C. motor shaft encoder 126 are coupled to the logic circuit 501a by means of leads A and B, which are conventially electrically connected to the counting circuit 270 to provide the microprocessor 502 the the count representative of the actual angular displacement of the motor shaft 122 from its home position. The counting circuit s leads Q0 Q7 are electrically connected on a one for one basis to Ports PO₀ PO₇ of the microcomputer 502 via one of eight conventional tri state buffer circuits 568, one of which is shown, having their respective control input leads connected to each other and to the output of a conventional inverting buffer circuit 570, which has its input conventionally connected port P3₄ of the microprocessor 502. Thus, either the three input signals, i.e., from the drum home position and the two envelope position sensors are operably electrically coupled to Ports P0₀ P0₂ of the microprocessor 502, or the eight input signals Q0 Q7 from the counter circuit 270 are operably electrically coupled to ports P0₀ PO₇ of the microprocessor 502, for scanning purposes, in response to an appropriate control signal being applied to the respective buffer circuits 566 and 568 from port P3₄ of the microprocessor 502. In operation, assuming a low logic level signal is required for activating either of the sets of buffers 566 or 568 when the microprocessor 502 applies such a signal to port P3₄, the buffer circuits 566 operate, whereas since the buffer circuit 570 inverts this signal to a high logic level signal before applying the same to the buffer circuit 568, the latter is inoperative. Conversely, a high logic level signal from port P3₄ will operate buffer circuits 568 and not operate the buffer circuits 566. Accordingly, depending upon the level, high or low, of the signal from port P3₄ of the microprocessor 502, the eight bit input to one or the other buffer circuits 566 or 568 will be made available to port PO for scanning purposes. Aside from the foregoing, to permit the microprocessor 502 to clear the counter 270 for any reason in the course of execution of the program, port P3₅ is connected to the clear pin CLR of the counter 270 via a conventional inverting buffer 572, and the microprocessor 502 is programmed for timely applying the appropriate signal to port P3₅ which, when inverted, causes the counting circuit 270 to be cleared. In general, ports P1₀ P1₃ are utilized by the microprocessor 502 for providing pulse width modulated PWM motor control signals for controlling energization of the D.C. motor 120 and port P1₄ is utilized by the microprocessor 502 for controlling energization of the solid state, A.C. motor, relay 52 and thus operation of the mailpiece conveyor 49. To that end, ports P1₀ P1₄ of the microprocessor 502 are each conventionally electrically connected on a one for one basis to the input of a conventional inverting buffer circuit 580, one of which is shown. The outputs of each of the buffer circuits 580 are connected on a one for one basis, via a conventional resistor R10, to output leads from the logic circuit 501b, one of which is designated solid state, A.C. motor, relay, and four of which are respectively designated T1, T3, T2 and T4, since, as shown in Fig. 7, the four preamplifier stages of the power amplifier utilized for driving the D.C. motor 120 include the transistors T1 T4. Thus, the upper nibble of the signal from port P1 is utilized for controlling energization of the D.C. motor and one bit of the lower nibble is utilized for controlling energization of the solid state, A.C. motor, relay 52 and thus the A.C. motor 50. In the analog circuit 501b, each of the leads T1, T2, T3, T4 and solid state relay, from the logic circuit 501a, is electrically connected on a one for one basis to the anode of the light emitting diode D1 of five, conventional, photo transistor type, optical electrical isolator circuits 303. Since the cathodes of the light emitting diodes D1 of the opto isolator circuits 303 are connected to each other and to the 5 volt lead from the analog circuit 501b which extends to the 5 volt source of the logic circuit 501a, the motor control signals are isolated from the power system of the analog circuit 501b to avoid having spurious noise signals in the analog circuit 501b and its components interfere with the control signals generated by the microprocessor 502. The analog circuit 501b also includes a lead, designated power up down, which extends from the analog circuit 501b to the logic circuit 501a and is connected to the microprocessor s interrupt INTI, port P3₃, to provide the microprocessor 502 with an appropriate input signal when the power is turned on, off or fails. In the analog circuit 501b, the power up down lead from the logic circuit 501a is coupled to the thirty volt detect circuit 542 by means of a conventional opto isolator 544, the power up down lead being electrically connected to ground through collector emitter circuit of the opto isolator s photo transistor when the light emitting diode D1 is lit in response to the D.C. supply voltage level matching the internal reference voltage level, e.g., 30 volts, of the 30 volt detection circuit. In the analog circuit 501b each of the outputs from the photo transistors of each of the opto isolators 303 are resistively coupled to the analog circuits 5V source by means of a conventional pull up resistor 305, and the emitters of the photo transistors T5 are connected to the analog circuit s ground system. In addition, the collectors of the photodiodes of the opto isolators 303, which are utilized for transmitting the motor control signals from ports P1₀ P1₃ of the microprocessor 502 are connected on a one for one basis to the appropriate input leads A, B, C and D of the power amplifiers shown in Fig. 7, the outputs of which are connected to the D.C. motor 120. Further, the collector of the photodiode of the opto isolator 303 which is utilized for transmitting the A.C. relay control signals from port P1₄ of the microprocessor 502 is connected to the input lead of a conventional darlington type power amplifier 550, the output of which is conventionally connected to the mailing machine s 30 volt D.C. source via a solid state, A.C. motor, relay 52, which is turn conventionally connected for energizing the A.C. motor 50 from the local A.C. source. In general, the computer 500 includes five software programs, including a main line program, Fig. 23a, a command execution program. Fig. 23b, a D.C. motor drive subroutine, Fig. 23c, a time delay subroutine, Fig. 23d, and a waiting subroutine, Fig. 23e. When the mailing machine 10 is energized by actuation of the main power switch 24, the resulting low level logic signal from D.C. supply is applied to the reset terminal RST of the computer s microprocessor 502, thereby enabling the microprocessor 502. Whereupon, as shown in Fig. 23a the microprocessor 502 commences execution of the main line program 600. The main line program 600 Fig. 23a commences with the step of conventionally initializing the microprocessor 602, which generally includes establishing the initial voltage levels at the microprocessor s ports, and interrupts, and setting the timers and counters. Thereafter, D.C. motor drive unit is initialized 604. Step 604 entails scanning the microprocessor s input port PO₀, to determine whether or not the D. C. motor shaft, 122 is located in its home position and, if not, driving the same to the home position. Assuming the motor shaft 122 is so located, either before or after the initialization step 604, the program then enters an idle loop routine 606. In the idle loop routine 606, a determination is initially made as to whether or not the sampling time period of T 1 millisecond has elapsed, step 608, it being noted that each successive sample is taken at the time instant T Thereafter, as shown in step 610h, the envelope sensors 56 and 58 are polled if the trip logic is enabled, i.e., if an envelope 16 is to be fed to the drum 38. However for the purpose of this discussion it will be assumed that an envelope is not being fed, as a result of which the trip logic is not enabled and, therefore, the envelope sensors 56 and 58 are not polled, step 610h. As shown by the next, step 612, a determination is then made as to whether or not a command has been received. Assuming a command has not been received, step 612, since trip logic is not enabled, processing returns to idle 606. Thus, until a command is received from the postage meter s computer 41, the main line program will continuously loop through steps 608, 610, 612 and 614 and drive the motor drive shaft 122 to its home position, against any force tending to move the shaft 122 out of the home position. At this juncture, it will be assumed that a command is received, as a result of which the inquiry of step 612 Fig. 23a is answered affirmatively, and the execute command routine 800 Fig. 23b is invoked. Assuming the command to be executed is to select postage, the select postage routine 702 Fig. 23b is invoked. Processing thus commences with the step, 704, of decoding the postage value, followed by an inquiry as to whether or not a digit is to be changed, step 706, in order to print the selected postage value. Assuming none of the print wheels 464 Fig. 1 and Fig. 23b are to be rotated in order to locate a different print element 465 at the periphery of the postage meter s drum 38, then the inquiry of step 706 is answered negatively, and an appropriate message is transmitted to the postage meter s computer 41 to indicate completion of execution of the command, step 708, before the select postage routine 702 loops to idle 606 Fig. 23a . On the other hand, if any print element 465 of any print wheel 464 is to be changed in order to print the selected postage value, the inquiry of step 706 is affirmatively answered. Whereupon the D.C. motor 120 is driven under the control of the computer 500 for moving the drum 38 to cause the postage value changing apparatus to be indexed for moving the desired rack 43 thereof into engagement with the stepper motor s output gear 40b, step 714. Step 714 generally includes the step of calling up and executing the steps of the D.C. motor drive subroutine 900 Fig. 23c . The D.C. motor drive subroutine 900 Fig. 23c , which is called up by the execute command routine 700 whenever the D.C. motor 120 is driven, includes the initial step 902 of fetching an amount, corresponding to the total number of counts, step 902a, that the encoder 126 will count, during the desired displacement of the drum 38 for the particular mode of operation, i.e., cycling the drum for printing purposes or indexing the drum for rack selection purposes. Thus step 902 includes the step 902b of identifying the type of drive mode of the drum 38. Thereafter the microprocessor 502 processes step 904 for the particular drum drive mode. Step 904 includes the step 904a, of fetching the group or set of acceleration, deceleration and constant velocity constants from a look up table, for the particular drum drive mode. Preferably the constants for the indexing mode are specified with a view to maximizing the acceleration, deceleration and constant velocity of the d.c. motor for driving the drum the respective acceleration and deceleration constants being amounts which are representative of a number of counts per square sampling time period T, and the constant velocity constant being an amount which is representative of a number of counts per sampling time period T. In addition, step 904 includes the step 904b of utilizing the total desired displacement, and the acceleration, deceleration and constant velocity constants for computing the total displacement and time duration of the respective acceleration, deceleration and constant velocity phases for driving the particular load in accordance with the desired trapezoidal shaped velocity versus time profile. Thereafter, processing proceeds to execution of the steps of the loop 906, including the initial steps of waiting for the next elapse of a sampling time period T, step 608 as previously discussed, then updating the d.c. motor drive servo control system, step 610 as previously discussed but excluding the assumption that the d.c. motor drive shaft 122 is to be located in its home position, then inquiring, step 908, as to whether or not the total displacement of the drum is equal to the instantaneous desired position Pd. Assuming the inquiry of step 908 is negative, processing proceeds to the step, 910, of computing the desired position Pd for the next sampling time period T and thereafter continuously looping through steps 608, 610, 908 and 910 as hereinbefore discussed until the total desired displacement is equal to the instantaneous desired position, step 908. Whereupon processing is diverted to the step, 912, of implementing an appropriate time delay to allow for settling the motion of the d.c. motor 120 before the subroutine 900 is exited, step 916, by returning processing to the execute command step which originally called up the d.c. motor drive subroutine 900, for example, step 714 Fig. 23b . After executing step 714 Figs 1 and 23b , of driving the drum 38 for moving the selected rack 43 into engagement with the stepper motor drive gear 40b, the select postage routing 702, executes the step, 720, of inquiring whether or not the digit or print element 45 which is associated with the selected rack 43 has been set, i.e., whether or not the postage meter s stepper motor 40 has completed actuation of the selected rack 43 for rotating the selected print element 45 of the print wheel 44 to the outer periphery of the drum 38 for printing purposes. Assuming digit setting is complete, step 716, processing proceeds to the step, 720, of inquiring whether or not all the digits have been checked whereas assuming digit setting is incomplete, step 716, processing waits for such completion, step 718, before proceeding to step 720. Assuming all the digits have not been checked, step 720, processing loops to step 706, and steps 706 720 are continuously processed until the assumption is invalid. Whereupon processing proceeds to the step, 722, of driving the drum 38 to its home position. Step 722 generally includes the step of calling up the D.C. motor drive subroutine 900 Fig. 23c and executing the same as hereinbefore discussed in the rack select mode, but including the assumption that the d.c. motor drive shaft 122 is to be located in its home position. As in the case of execution of step 714, step 722 includes the step of execution of an appropriate time delay for drum settling purposes before returning before returning to step 720. Whereupon, the select postage routine 702 executes the step, 724, of transmitting an appropriate command execution complete message to the postage meter s computer 41 and processing is looped to idle 606 Fig. 23a . As above discussed, an appropriate time delay is implemented by the microprocessor 502 in the course of execution of each of the steps 714 and 722 Fig. 23b to allow for settling movement of the d.c. motor 120. Each of the steps 714 and 722 generally includes the step of calling up and executing the time delay subroutine 950 of Fig. 23c. As shown in Fig. 23c, the time delay subroutine 950 initially executes the step 952 of fetching an amount which is multiple of the sampling time period T, and corresponds to the number of times processing is to loop in the time delay subroutine 950. Having executed step 952, the time delay subroutine 950 enters a loop 954 wherein the successive steps of waiting for the next elapse of the sampling time period T, step 608 as previously discussed, and then updating the d.c. motor servo control drive system, step 610 as previously discussed, until the predetermined number of time delay loops have been completed. Whereupon processing is returned to the execute command step, 714 or 722, which originally called up the subroutine 950. As above discussed, an appropriate waiting time period is implemented by the microprocessor 502 in the course of execution of step 718 to allow for completion of actuation of the selected rack 43 by the stepper motor 40 under the control of the postage meter s computer 41. Step 718 generally includes the step of calling up and executing the waiting subroutine 975 of Fig. 23e. As shown in Fig. 23e, the waiting subroutine 975 causes processing to enter a one millisecond time loop 976 wherein the successive steps of waiting for the next elapse of a sampling time period T, step 608 as previously discussed, and then updating the d.c. motor servo control drive system, step 610 as previously discussed, and inquiring whether or not digit setting is complete, step 978, are continuously looped through until the answer to step 978 is affirmative. Whereupon processing is returned to the call up step 718. Having executed the select postage command 702 Fig. 23b and returned to idle 606 Fig. 23a , processing continues through steps 608, 610, 612 and 614 as hereinbefore discussed, until a trip enable command has been received due to the operator depressing the start key 53a. Assuming the trip enable command is received, step 612 will be affirmatively answered and the command will be executed by the execute command routine 700 Fig. 23b . The enable trip routine 726, includes the steps of setting the trip enable status flag and energizing the solid state A.C. relay 52 Fig. 2 to start the A.C. motor 50 for feeding envelopes 16 past the sensors 56 and 58 to the drum 38. Whereupon the appropriate command execution complete message is transmitted to the postage meter s computer 41, processing returns to idle 606 Fig. 23a , and, upon the next elapse of a sampling time period, step 608, in the course of execution of the step of updating the d.c. motor servo control drive system, step 610, since the trip logic enabled status flag was set in the course of execution of the enable trip command, the envelope sensors are poled, step 610h. At this juncture, assuming another command is not received for execution, the inquiry of step 612 will be answered in the negative, and processing diverted to step 614 which will be affirmatively answered since trip logic is enabled. Step 614 is followed by the step of inquiring as to whether or not the envelope sensing sequence is complete, step 616, which is in effect an inquiry as to whether or not the sensors 56 and 58 have completed successively sensing the leading edge of an envelope 16 as it is being fed to the drum 38. Assuming the sensing sequence is incomplete, step 616, processing is diverted to an inquiry as to whether or not an envelope is available. Assuming an available envelope, processing loops to idle 606, and step 608, 610, 614 616 and 618 are continuously processed until the sensing sequence, step 616 is complete. Whereupon processing proceeds to the step 620, wherein the microprocessor 502 generates a cycle drum command, and then calls up the execute command routine 700. On the other hand, if an envelope is not available, step 618, processing advances to step 622, wherein the microprocessor 502 generates a disable trip command and then calls up the execute command routine 700. Assuming an envelope is not available and a disable trip command has been generated, step 622 Fig. 23a , the microprocessor 502 implements the disable trip command routine, 740 Fig. 23b which implements the step, 742, of clearing the trip enable status flag and deenergizing the solid state A.C. relay 52 to stop the A.C. motor 50 from feeding envelopes. Whereupon an appropriate command execution complete message is transmitted to the postage meter s computer 41 and processing is returned to idle 606 Fig. 23a where idle loop processing continues, with step 614 being answered negatively due to the trip enable status flag having been cleared, until a subsequent command is received from the postage meter s computer 41 as hereinbefore discussed. Assuming however that an envelope is available, the envelope sensing sequence is eventually completed, the cycle drum command is generated, step 620 Fig. 23a and the microprocessor 502 implements the drum cycle command routine 750. The routine 750 commences with the step, 752, of calculating the envelope velocity V1 and the time delay td, thereafter the time delay td is implemented, step 754, and the D.C. motor is driven for cycling the drum to feed the envelope. As with the other d.c. motor drive steps, step 754 includes the step of calling up the d.c. motor drive subroutine 900 and implementing the same, including implementing the time delay subroutine 950, before returning processing to the call up step 756 Fig. 23b . Thereafter, an appropriate command execution complete message is transmitted to the postage meters computer 41, step 708, and processing returns to idle, step 606. The term postage meter as used herein includes any device for affixing a value or other indicia on a sheet or sheet like material for governmental or private carrier parcel, envelope or package delivery, or other purposes. For example, private parcel or freight services purchase and employ postage meters for providing unit value pricing on tape for application on individual parcels. A more detailed description of the programs hereinbefore discussed is disclosed in the program listing disclosed in the APPENDIX forming part of the file open to public inspection, which describes in greater detail the various routines incorporated in, and used in the operation of, the postage meter. Although the invention disclosed herein has been described with reference to a simple embodiment thereof, variations and modifications may be made therein by persons skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the claims.