# THE USE OF BACTERIOPHAGE LAMBDA PL PROMOTER TO PRODUCE A FUNCTIONAL POLYPEPTIDE IN STREPTOMYCES

## Claims
Verfahren zur Herstellung eines funktionellen Polypeptids in Streptomyces, umfassend, daß man

## Description
The present invention provides a method of using bacteriophage lambda The present invention provides a method for expressing functional polypeptides in The general paucity of knowledge concerning Gene cloning and expression of products in Prior references do not disclose the use of an For purposes of the present invention, the following terms are as defined Recombinant DNA Expression Vector any recombinant DNA cloning vector into which one or more transcriptional and translational activator sequence s have been incorporated. Transcriptional Activating Sequence any DNA sequence that directs or provides for the transcription of DNA into a mRNA transcript. Translational Activating Sequence any DNA sequence that provides for the translation of a mRNA transcript into a peptide or polypeptide. Functional Polypeptide a recoverable bioactive heterologous polypeptide or precursor, a recoverable bioactive polypeptide comprising a heterologous polypeptide and a portion or whole of a homologous polypeptide, or a recoverable bioinactive fusion polypeptide comprising a heterologous polypeptide and a bio inactivating polypeptide which can be specifically cleaved. Restriction Fragment any linear DNA sequence generated by the action of one or more restriction enzymes. Sensitive Host Cell a host cell that cannot grow in the presence of a given antibiotic without a DNA segment that confers resistance thereto. Transformation the introduction of DNA into a recipient host cell that changes the genotype and consequently results in a change in the recipient cell. Transformant a recipient host cell that has undergone transformation. The present invention provides a method for producing a functional polypeptide in The λ The translational activating sequence can be conventionally synthesized by the modified phosphotriester method, using fully protected deoxyribonucleotide building blocks, in substantial accordance with the procedures of Itakura The construction of present plasmid pKC417 was engineered to bring the expression of the neomycin phosphotransferase gene under the control of the λ The present method for expressing a functional polypeptide in For convenience and ease of construction, plasmid pKC417 was constructed from a series of starting materials and intermediates exemplified as follows. An 2.9 kb The resultant vector, pKC326, subsequently was digested with Plasmid pKC354 is constructed by ligating the 2.1 kb The derivative plasmid pKC356 was constructed by deleting an 1.5 kb Plasmid pKC417 was constructed to illustrate the expression in The present method for expressing a functional polypeptide in Preferred host cells of restrictionless strains of Preferred host cells of restrictionless strains of Preferred host cells of restrictionless strains of Preferred host cells of restrictionless strains of Preferred host cells of restrictionless strains of Preferred host cells of other While all of the embodiments of the present invention are useful, some of the expression vectors and transformants are preferred for applying the present invention. Accordingly, a preferred vector is plasmid pKC417 and a preferred transformant is The method for expressing functional polypeptides of the present invention has broad utility and helps fill the need for expression vehicles useful in The following non limiting examples further illustrate and detail the invention. Both an explanation of and the actual procedures for constructing the invention are described where appropriate. About 5 ml. cultures of After the addition of 250 µl. of freshly made lysis mix 2 sodium dodecyl sulfate and 0.3N NaOH , the cells were immediately and completely vortexed. The cells were then incubated for ten minutes at 70 C., cooled and added to 100 µl. of phenol Sevag phenolchloroform isoamyl alcohol, 25 24 1 . The material was completely mixed by vortexing. After the DNA was centrifuged for two minutes in an Eppendorf centrifuge the supernatant was decanted and transferred to another tube with 70 µl. of unbuffered 3M sodium acetate and 500 µl. of isopropanol to precipitate the DNA. This solution was incubated for five minutes at room temperature and then centrifuged for five minutes. The supernatant was gently and completely decanted to remove all the excess liquid. The DNA precipitate was redissolved in 500 µl. of TE 10 mM Tris HCl pH 8 and 1 mM EDTA and 25 µl. of 100 mM spermine HCl was added. This mixture was vortexed and then incubated for five minutes at room temperature before a five minute spin in an Eppendorf centrifuge. The supernatant was again completely decanted and discarded and the DNA pellet was washed with 1 ml. of 75 ethanol, 0.3M sodium acetate, and 10 mM magnesium acetate. This solution was incubated for five minutes at room temperature and the DNA collected as above. The pellet was redissolved in 10 µl. of TE for subsequent use as a cloning vehicle. About 10 µl. of plasmid pKC309 DNA prepared in Example 1 was digested in 1X A vegetative inoculum of The trypticase soy broth inoculum is incubated for 48 hours at a temperature of 30 C. After incubation, about 10 ml. of the inoculum is transferred to 500 ml. of the sterilized broth and incubated for about 20 hours at 30 C. The pH is not adjusted. After incubation, the About 12 g. wet wgt of About 2 µg. of plasmid pEL103 DNA prepared in Example 2B is digested in 1X About 2 µg. each of The resultant plasmid DNA was used to transform About 2 µg. of plasmid pKC326 DNA was digested with About 5 µg. of plasmid pIJ702 DNA ATCC 39155 is digested with About 2 µg. of The resultant DNA was used to transform About 150 µg. of plasmid pKC322 DNA NRRL B 15829 was digested in 1X The 2.1 kb band was isolated from the gel and the DNA eluted from the gel in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 2 B 3 . The DNA was extracted twice with phenol and twice with Sevag chloroform isoamyl alcohol, 24 1 . The 2.1 kb About 10 µg. of plasmid pKC345 DNA was digested in 1X About 5 µl. each of the purified 2.1 kb About 1 µl. of the ligated DNA was used to transform Plasmid pKC356 was constructed by deleting an 1.5 kb The resultant DNA was ligated in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 2C and incubated at 16 C. overnight to promote self circularization. After incubation, the DNA was ethanol precipitated and redissolved in 10 µl. TE. About 2 µl. of the resultant DNA was used to transform About 5.4 µg. of plasmid pKC283 DNA NRRL B 15830 was digested in 1X The desired digestion was performed in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 2 B 3 except that Any About 1 µg. each of the DNA from Examples 4 and 5 and 200 µl. of protoplasts of The transformed