# METHOD FOR TRANSFORMING A CEPHALOSPORIUM CELL

## Claims
Verfahren zur Selektion von Cephalosporium Transformanden, umfassend, daß man Cephalosporium züchtet, wobei Cephalosporium einen rekombinanten DNA Klonierungsvektor umfaßt, der eine transkriptions und translationsaktivierende Sequenz von Saccharomyces cerevisiae enthält, die zur Expression einer Sequenz angeordnet ist, die die Hygromycinphosphotransferase codiert, in einem Medium, das Hygromycin enthält, mit einem Gehalt, der ausreicht, um das Wachstum von Cephalosporium, das die Hygromycinphosphotransferase codierende DNA Sequenz nicht enthält, zu hemmen.

## Description
The present invention relates to a genetic transformation system which provides a means for genetically transforming cephalosporin producing fungi. Heretofore, the development and exploitation of recombinant DNA technology have been retarded and made especially difficult in The vectors used in the method of the present invention are particularly useful because they are relatively small, versatile and can be transformed and selected in any The present invention not only provides vectors and methods for cloning DNA into For purposes of the present invention, as disclosed and claimed herein, the following terms are as defined below. Recombinant DNA Cloning Vector any agent capable of genomic integration or autonomous replication, including, but not limited to plasmids, comprising a DNA molecule to which one or more additional DNA segments can be added. Transformation the introduction of DNA into a recipient host cell. Transformant a recipient host cell that has undergone transformation. Restriction Fragment any linear DNA generated by the action of one or more restriction enzymes. Transcriptional Activating Sequence a DNA sequence that codes for the transcription of DNA into messenger RNA mRNA . Translational Activating Sequence a DNA sequence that codes for the translation of mRNA into a polypeptide. Functional Polypeptide a recoverable bioactive entirely heterologous or homologous polypeptide or precursor, a recoverable bioactive polypeptide comprising a heterologous polypeptide and a portion or whole of a homologous polypeptide, or a recoverable bioinactive fusion polypeptide comprising a heterologous polypeptide and a bioinactivating homologous polypeptide which can be specifically cleaved. Fused Gene Product a recoverable heterologous polypeptide which is fused with a protein or whole of a homologous polypeptide. Host Cell a cell, including the viable protoplasts thereof, which is capable of being transformed. Figure 1 Restriction Site Map of Plasmid pIT221. Figure 2 Restriction Site Map of Plasmid pIT123. Figure 3 Restriction Site Map of Plasmid pIT143. Figure 4 Restriction Site Map of Plasmid pIT213. Figure 5 Restriction Site Map of Plasmid pPS1. Figure 6 Restriction Site Map of Plasmid pIT220. Figure 7 Restriction Site Map of Plasmid pIT219. Figure 8 Restriction Site Map of Plasmid pPS6. The present invention is a method for selecting The present invention allows for the genetic transformation of The vectors used to practice the present transformation method each comprise a sequence that codes for a selectable marker in wherein The amino acids encoded by the above DNA are designated below the appropriate nucleotide triplet. Accordingly, The above sequence, of which R, R¹, R², R³, R⁴ and R⁵ are defined in accordance with the genetic code Watson, J.D., 1976, Molecular Biology of the Gene, W.A. Benjamin, Inc., Menlo Park, California , can be conventionally synthesized by the modified phosphotriester method using fully protected trideoxyribonucleotide building blocks. Such synthetic methods are well known in the art and can be carried out in substantial accordance with the procedure of Itakura The aforementioned DNA sequences comprise 1014 bp m n o , 1017 bp m o, n 1 or 1020 bp m 1, n 1 and encode, respectively, the last 338, 339 and 340 amino acids of hygromycin B phosphotransferase. Hereinafter, these DNA sequences are referred to as the HPT sequences . The amino acids of hygromycin phosphotransferase encoded by the aforementioned sequences, hereinafter referred to as HPT polypeptides , are also specified above and catalyze the phosphorylation of hygromycin B. Details of this enzymatic reaction and its product are found in Rao The recombinant DNA cloning vectors used in the present method are characterized, in part, by the presence of a The Plasmid pIT221 is further characterized by the presence of a Plasmids containing a transcriptional and translational activating sequence have particular utility for constructing transformants that are improved for the production of cephem compounds useful in manufacturing clinically important cephem antibiotics. Even a strong activating sequence from a foreign source will often function poorly, if at all, in The efficacy of the present invention can be enhanced by using vectors which further comprise a Skilled artisans will recognize that plasmid pPS6 Additional vectors wherein the foreign transcriptional and translational activating sequence of plasmid pIT221 is replaced with a Transformation by plasmid vectors lacking a Plasmids useful in the present method can be further modified by ligation into a Skilled artisans will recognize that any The method and recombinant DNA shuttle vectors of the present invention are not limited for use in a single species or strain of Restrictionless strains are readily selected and isolated from Preferred host cells of restrictionless strains of Preferred host cells of restrictionless strains of Preferred host cells of restrictionless strains of Preferred host cells of restrictionless strains of Preferred host cells of restrictionless strains of Preferred host cells of other Preferred host cells of restrictionless strains of In addition to the representative The very broad antibiotic spectrum of hygromycin B, the common existence of a PGK gene in most fungi, and the basal level of expression of HPT coding sequences allowed by even minor conservation in the transcriptional and translational activating sequences of phosphoglycerate kinase genes of lower eukaryotes, makes the present invention broadly applicable to a wide variety of fungi. In particular, the present invention can be applied 1 to the improvement of fermentations of The present invention is especially useful for organisms that are not well characterized genetically and biochemically because prior isolation of auxotrophic mutants and genes to complement auxotrophic deficiencies is not required. Furthermore, lower eukaryotes are killed very effectively by hygromycin B and most, particularly fungi, do not exhibit a significant capacity to acquire a natural resistance to hygromycin B by forward mutation. The hygromycin phosphotransferase gene product expressed by plasmids pIT221, pPS5, pPS6, pETS702 and pLS221 not only is useful for purposes of selection but also as a molecular weight marker. The entire amino acid sequence of the hygromycin gene product is known and the molecular weight of the protein is 37,972 daltons. The hygromycin phosphotransferase enzyme may be conventionally purified in substantial accordance with the teachings of Haas and Downing, 1978, Methods in Enzymology, 48 611. The molecular weight of the hygromycin phosphotransferase protein is conveniently between the highest molecular weight of Bio Rad s 32nd and Griffin Ave., Richmond, CA 94804 9989 Low Molecular Weight Protein Standards and the lowest molecular weight of Bio Rad s High Molecular Weight Protein Standards. Bio Rad s protein standards are quite well known in the art and the hygromycin resistance gene product of the aforementioned plasmids conveniently expands the size range of either the Low or High Molecular Weight Protein Standards. The following examples and construction flow charts further illustrate and detail the invention discribed herein. Both an explanation of and the actual procedures for constructing the invention are described where appropriate. Method for constructing plasmid pKC222 an intermediate used in the construction of plasmid pIT221 from plasmid pKC7 ATCC 37084 and plasmid pKC203 containing Method for constructing plasmid pIT123 an intermediate used in the construction of plasmid pIT221 from plasmids pBR322 and pKC222 Method for constructing plasmid pIT143 an intermediate used to construct plasmid pIT221 from plasmids pUC8 and pIT141 NRRL B 15602 . Method for constructing plasmid pIT213 an intermediate used to construct plasmid pIT221 from plasmids YEp24 pRB5, ATCC 37051 and pIT123 construction disclosed in European Patent Publication 0 135 291, published 27th March 1985 and incorporated herein by reference Method for constructing pPS1 an intermediate used to construct plasmid pIT221 from plasmid YIp5 pRB12, ATCC 37061 and Method for constructing plasmid pIT221 from plasmids pUC8, pPS1, pIT213 and pIT143 The bacterium The tube was maintained at 0 C for 60 minutes and then centrifuged for 5 minutes to yield an almost clear supernatant. About .4 ml of the supernatant was transferred to a second centrifuge tube to which 1 ml of cold ethanol was added. After the tube was held at 20 C for 30 minutes, the resultant precipitate was collected by centrifugation 2 minutes and the supernatant was removed by aspiration. The collected pellet was dissolved in 100 µl of .1M sodium acetate .05M Tris HCl pH 8 and was reprecipitated by the addition of 2 volumes of cold ethanol. After 10 minutes at 20 C, the desired E. coli JR225 plasmid DNA precipitate was collected by centrifugation as described above. The Transformants of the latter type were plated on TY agar containing 100 µg ml of antibiotic hygromycin B and were cultured using standard microbiological techniques. The resultant cells were used to isolate the above described 15 kb hygromycin B and G418 resistance conferring plasmid, hereinafter designated as plasmid pKC203. The presence of the antibiotic hygromycin B and G418 resistance genes on plasmid pKC203 was confirmed by subsequent transformation and selection analysis. About 5 µg of plasmid pKC203 DNA were digested in a total reaction volume of 100 µl with About 5 µg of plasmid pKC7 ATCC 37084 , which can be constructed in accordance with the teaching of Rao and Rogers, 1979, Gene 7 79, were treated with Purified transformants were cultured in TY broth 1 tryptone, .5 yeast extract, .5 sodium chloride, pH 7.4 with 50 µg ml of antibiotic ampicillin according to conventional microbiological procedures. After 18 hours incubation, the desired plasmid was isolated in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 1A. About 50 µg of plasmid pKC222 DNA were digested in 1X The purified 325 bp fragment was treated with the large fragment of DNA Polymerase I New England Biolabs . Thus, about 1.5 µl 1 µg of fragment, .5 µl of 10X buffer .5M Tris, pH 7.5, .1M MgCl₂ , .5 µl of each of 200 mM dCTP, dATP, TTP and dGTP and 1 µl containing 1 unit of DNA polymerase I large Klenow fragment were incubated at 37 C for 15 minutes. After heat inactivation of the polymerase, About 2 µg of pBR322 DNA were sequentially digested with About 20 µg of plasmids pKC222 and pIT122 were independently cleaved in separate reaction volumes of 200 µl each with 40 units Plasmid pIT141 contains the entire Plasmid pIT143, from which the About 5 µg of the purified 958 bp In a separate tube, about 1 µg of plasmid pUC8 commercially available from BRL was digested with 5 units of The kanamycin resistance gene from Tn The The bacterium A transformant was isolated and cultured in the presence of ampicillin according to conventional microbiological procedures. The plasmid pRB12 YIp5 DNA was isolated from this culture in substantial accordance with the method of Clewell, 1972, Journal of Bacteriology 110 667. Transformation and restriction analysis confirmed the identity of the DNA as plasmid pRB12 YIp5 . The antibiotic producing filamentous fungus Approximately 35 µg of The plasmid pRB12 YIp5, ATCC No. 37061 contains two sites for the restriction enzyme Approximately 1 µg of the 1.9 kb A purified tetracycline resistant, ampicillin sensitive transformant is cultured under selective conditions i.e., with tetracycline at 12.5 µg ml . Small scale plasmid preparations are made in substantial accordance with the method of Klein About 20 µg of pPS1 were digested in About 5 µg of pUC8 commercially available from Bethesda Research Laboratories, Bethesda, Maryland and prepared by the same method as described for the isolation of the plasmid pKC203 in Example 1 was digested in substantial accordance with the above teaching of Example 6A. About 1 µg of About 5 µg of pIT213 were digested in Approximately 5 µg of pIT143 were digested with About 2 µg of The functioning of the Cells receiving pIT219 could be directly selected after transformation without first selecting for uracil prototrophy. The transformed cells were plated in 20 ml of YPD plus 1.2M sorbitol and 3 percent agar and incubated at 30 C for varying lengths to time. They were then overlaid with 10 ml of the same medium containing 1.5 mg ml hygromycin B and incubation was continued at 30 C. Although the recovery time required after transformation varied from experiment to experiment, satisfactory results could be achieved by adding the hygromycin B to one set of plates at four hours and to another set of plates at 20 hours after transformation. The requirement for recovery time may be related to the mechanism of action of hygromycin B. Adding the hygromycin B four hours after transformation killed the transformed cells as well as the untransformed cells in some experiments although in these cases adding the drug 20 hours after transformation did allow unambiguous selection of transformants. In other experiments, the background growth 20 hours after transformation was already too high to allow easy selection of transformants after adding the hygromycin B. Such variability could also be due to the extent of cell wall digestion by the zymolyase used in protoplasting. About 5 µg of plasmid pIT220 were incubated in About 20 µg of pIT219 were incubated in 1X About 1 µg of The preferred To genetically transform An ampoule of spores approximatley 10⁹ conidia in 1.5 ml of preservation menstrum 5 lactose, 10 glycerol, and .1 Tween 80 is taken from liquid nitrogen storage, thawed at room temperature and diluted in 5 ml of sterile saline. About .1 ml is used to inoculate each of approximately 50 slants containing 20 ml of Trypticase Soy Agar BBL medium. Before inoculation, the medium is allowed to dry until surface moisture is no longer visible. Inoculated slants are incubated for about four days at 25 C. About 10 ml of preservation menstrum are added to the mycelial growth which covers the surface of the medium in each slant. The slants are vortexed to suspend the conidia and the conidial suspension from each slant is pooled and 10 ml aliquots frozen at 80 C. The frozen conidial suspension slowly looses viability and should not be used after about three months of storage at 80 C. Approximately 106 ml of aqueous medium in a 500 ml shake flask is inoculated with cells from the 10 ml of frozen conidial suspension. Cells are obtained by centrifugation 10 min X 2600 rpm , and then directly suspended in the aqueous culture medium. Cells from a 24 hour culture are harvested by suction filtration Whatman 1 paper in a Buchner funnel and suspended in McIlvaine s Buffer, pH 7.1 .1M citric acid, .2M dibasic sodium phosphate to which dithiothretiol has been added to a concentration of .01M. Sufficient buffer is added to attain a final cell concentration of 1 g weighed after suction filtration of cell mass per 20 ml of buffer. The cell suspension is placed on a gyratory water bath shaker in a 50 ml shake flask and incubated 90 minutes at 140 rpm with 1 inch throw at 29 30 C. Dithiothreitol treated cells are washed with water and then resuspended in enzyme solution 25 mg ml of beta glucuronidase Sigma Chemical Comany, in McIlvaine s buffer, pH 6.35 supplemented with .8 M NaCl and .02M MgSO₄ . The final cell concentration is 1 g of treated cell mass per 10 ml of enzyme solution. The cell suspension is then placed on a gyratory water bath shake and incubated for 3 hours at 120 rpm with 1 inch throw at 29 30 C. The suspension of protoplasts is diluted with 4 volumes of washing solution .8 M NaCl and .02M MgSO₄ and then gravity filtered through two layers of paper toweling. The filtrate containing the protoplasts is centrifuged for 5 minutes at 2600 rpm at room temperature. The supernatant is decanted and the pellet of protoplasts suspended in 10 ml of washing solution. After the washing procedure is repeated twice, the washed protoplasts are resuspended in sufficient .8M NaCl to achieve a concentration of 2 to 3 x 10⁸ protoplasts per ml hemacytometer count . To a 1 ml suspension of Southern hybridization experiments provide unequivocal proof that hygromycin resistant The hybridization of the high molecular weight DNA of the hygromycin resistant Integration of plasmid pTT221 was also shown to occur at more than one site. Since To further define the basis of the hygromycin resistance exhibited by Uncut total DNA from untransformed To obtain a qualitative measure of the stability of A .5 cm patch of In a second experiment, an aliquot from a 48 hour vegetative culture of CPC T1 was used to inoculate a medium capable of supporting cephalosporin C synthesis. After a 96 hour fermentation, aliquots of whole broth were analyzed for 1 antibiotics penicillin N and cephalosporin C 2 the presence of viable cells and 3 the presence of viable, hygromycin resistant cells. The number measured for viable CPC T1 cells grown on non selective agar, i.e, no hygromycin present was, by statistical analysis, substantially the same as that measured for viable, hygromycin resistant CPC T1 cells grown on selective agar, i.e., hygromycin present . All untransformed The desired library was conventionally constructed from Total DNA from The DNA from bacteriophage Charon 28 was digested to completion with This procedure is best carried out by use of a radioactive probe that contains a portion of the gene being sought or a closely related sequence. Plasmid pYlrA12 contains the yeast ribosomal RNA coding sequences for the 5.8, 18 and 25S ribosomal RNA genes and is preferred for screening. The plasmid has been deposited and made part of the permanent collections of the Northern Regional Research Laboratory and can be obtained under the accession number NRRL B 15888. Plasmid pYlrA12 was labeled by nick translation with ³²P dCTP in substantial accordance with the method of Rigby The desired digestion was carried out in substantial accordance with the procedure of Example 6A except that About .125 µg of the 3.7 kb The desired construction was made in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 7 except that plasmid pPS6, rather than plasmid pIT221, was used. The desired digestion of plasmid pIJ702 ATCC 39155 was carried out in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 5C 2 except that a complete, rather than a partial, digestion was carried out. The desired partial digestion was carried out in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 5C 2 except that plasmid pIT221, rather than plasmid pRB12, was used. The desired ligation of the DNA digests of A and B above was carried out in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 5C 3 . The resultant plasmids, designated as plasmids pETS702 and pPLS221, are used to transform The desired construction is made in substantial accordance with the teaching of United States Patent No. 4,468,462 especially Example 9 except that The desired construction is made in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 7 except that plasmid pPLS221, rather than plasmid pIT221, is used.