# AMINO ALCOHOL DERIVATIVES AND PROCESSES FOR THEIR PREPARATION

## Claims
Aminoalkoholderivat der Formel I ,

## Description
This invention relates to novel amino alcohol derivatives and more particularly to amino alcohol derivatives of the formula I , where R₁ is a straight or branched alkyl group having 3 to 8 carbon atoms, R₂ and R₃ are each a methyl group, or R₂ and R₃ form a 5 to 7 membered ring together with the adjacent nitrogen atom which may have an oxygen atom attached thereto, R₄ is a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group, R₅ is a hydrogen atom or a methyl or ethyl group, X is a hydrogen or halogen atom or a methyl or methoxy group, and As has been strongly suggested in the art, glutamic acid acts as an excitatory neurotransmitter at the central nervous systems of higher animals and at the neuromuscular junctions of lower animals Glutamate as a Neurotransmitter edited by G. D. Chiara G. L. Gessa Raven Press, New York, 1981 and H. M. Gerschenfeld Physiol. Rev., It is known that as ageing proceeds, the central and peripheral nervous systems would undergo hypoergia to develop Parkinson s disease, motoneuron disorders, dementia, tremors, spinocerebellar degeneracy and the like. These diseases are considered to be attributable to off balanced equilibration between excitatory nerves and inhibitory nerves for example, the equilibration between glutamic acid and GABA due to loss of neurons at certain specific sites or overall hypoergia of the nervous systems Toshishige Hirai Shinkei Shimpo, With the foregoing in view, medicines that can selectively block glutamic acid are useful for the therapy of neuropathy from which the senile would most often suffer and which would involve such complaints as vertigo, shoulder discomfort, convulsions, tremors and the like, all of them resulting from off balanced nervous systems or hyperstenia in muscle discharge. Glutamic acid also acts as an excitatory neurotransmitter for neuromuscular junctions of insects. Chemicals capable of blocking glutamic acid are therefore suitable for agricultural use for their ability to reduce and weaken insects activities Morifusa Eto Kagaku to Seibutsu, It has now been found that amino alcohol derivatives of the formula I above have excellent blocking effects against glutamic acid as well as neuraxial muscle relaxing effects, i.e. rigidity reducing and releasing effects on anemic decerebrate rigidity samples. This result suggests that the inventive compounds are useful for the therapy of a complaint which would have spastic paralysis and rigidity and these compounds are expected to suppress or release dyskinasis, athetosis, myoclonus, tic, tremors, dystonia and ballismus of neuropathy. Some compounds are known which are structurally similar to the compounds contemplated by the present invention. Such known compounds are 2 2 dimethylaminoethylamino 1 phenylpropan 1 ol Sv. Zikolova and L. Zhelyazkov Tr. Nauchno Izsled. Inst. Farm., It is an object of the present invention to provide novel amino alcohol derivatives of the formula I above which have excellent blocking effects against glutamic acid and rigidity reducing and releasing effects and hence are effectively useful as medicines and agricultural chemicals. Another object of the invention is to provide processes for preparing such compounds. These and other objects and features of the invention can be attained by the provision of an amino alcohol derivative of the formula I , where R₁ is a straight or branched alkyl group having 3 to 8 carbon atoms, R₂ and R₃ are each a methyl group, or R₂ and R₃ form a 5 to 7 membered ring together with the adjacent nitrogen atom which may have an oxygen atom attached thereto, R₄ is a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group, R₅ is a hydrogen atom or a methyl or ethyl group, X is a hydrogen or halogen atom or a methyl or methoxy group, Amino alcohol derivatives of the present invention contain two types of compounds, i.e. a compound of the formula Ia and a compound of the formula Ib , where R is a lower alkyl group, and R₁, R₂, R₃, R₅, X and Both of these compounds of the invention can be prepared, for example, by one of the following processes. In accordance with the following reaction scheme, a compound of the formula II is reacted with a compound of the formula III to prepare the desired compound Ia , where Y₁ is a halogen atom or a tosyloxy group, and R₁, R₂, R₃, R₅, X and The reaction of the compound II with the compound III is effected at 50 to 150 C. This reaction may be conducted without a solvent under normal conditions, but it is possible to use an inert solvent. In accordance with the following reaction scheme, the compound Ia is reacted with a compound of the formula IV to prepare the desired compound Ib , where R is a lower alkyl group, and R₁, R₂, R₃, R₅, X and This reaction is conducted by reacting an alcoholate anion of the compound Ia with the compound IV . The alcoholate is obtained by treating the compound Ia with a base such as sodium hydride in an organic solvent such as benzene or toluene at room temperature to 150 C. In accordance with the following reaction scheme, a desired compound of the formula Ia is obtained by reducing a compound of the formula V , where R₆ is a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group, and R₁ The compound V which is a starting material for this reaction is obtained by acylating a compound of the formula Ia , where R₁, R₂, R₃, X and The reaction is effected with use of a reducing agent such as lithium aluminum hydride in a solvent such as tetrahydrofuran or ether at 0 C to the boiling point of the solvent. In accordance with the following reaction scheme, a compound of the formula VI is reacted with a compound of the formula VII to prepare a desired compound of the formula I , where Y₂ is a halogen atom, and R₁, R₂, R₃, R₄, R₅, X and The reaction of the compound VI with the compound VII is effected with or without a solvent at 50 to 150 C for 1 to 10 hours. In accordance with the following reaction scheme, the desired compound Ia is obtained by reducing a compound of the formula VIII , where R₁, R₂, R₃, R₅, X and The reduction is effected in the usual manner. For example, the following reaction techniques may be employed. In accordance with the following reaction scheme, the desired compound I is obtained by reacting a compound of the formula IX with the compound VII under reducing conditions, where A is In the case where A is In accordance with the following reaction scheme, a desired compound of the formula Ia is obtained by hydrolyzing a compound of the formula X , where R₁, R₂, R₃, X and This reaction is effected by hydrolyzing the compound X in the presence of a base such as sodium hydroxide in alcohol containing water at 50 to 100 C. The amino alcohol derivatives I thus prepared can be converted in conventional manner to their acid addition salts. Acid addition salts useful in the invention include, for example, hydrochlorides, hydrobromides, phosphates, sulfates, p toluene sulfonates, fumarates, citrates, maleates, tartrates and the like. Each of the compounds contemplated by the present invention includes its stereoisomers, i.e. an erythro form 1RS,2SR and a threo form 1RS,2RS , and its optical isomers 1R,2S , 1S,2R , 1R,2R and 1S,2S . It is to be noted that these two types of isomers are within the scope of the invention. The following compounds are particularly typical of the compounds I of the present invention. The effectiveness of the compounds I according to the invention was determined with respect to the blocking effects against glutamic acid, the neuraxial muscle relaxing effects the rigidity reducing and releasing effects on anemic decerebrate rigidity and the toxicity levels. The following compounds were used for comparative purposes. The method of Ishida et al. J. Physiol., The blocking effect of each test compound against glutamic acid was evaluated in terms of the suppression rate to depolarization which was induced by bath applying L glutamic acid 10 ⁴ M in a 5 minute pretreatment with a solution of the test compound 2 x 10 ⁴ M . The results are shown in Table 1. An anemic decerebrate rigidity sample was prepared principally in accordance with the procedure of Fukuda et al. Japan. J. Pharmacol., The effect of each test compound on the rigidity was evaluated in terms of the suppression rate. This rate was calculated first by determining the area of a decreased EMG pulse part on the histogram upon passage of 10 minutes after administration of a physiological saline solution of each test compound 3 mg kg through the femoral vein and then in accordance with the following equation. The results are shown in Table 2. Using ddN male mice, the acute toxicity level of each test compound was determined in accordance with an up and down method. Some of the test compounds used were dissolved in physiological saline and administered through the caudal vein. The results are shown in Table 3. The following specific examples and reference examples are given to further illustrate the present invention. A mixture of 1RS,2SR 2 amino 5 methyl 1 phenylhexan 1 ol 415 mg, 2 mmol and 1 3 chloropropyl piperidine 324 mg, 2 mmol was melted at 70 C in a nitrogen atmosphere. The mixture was heated at 110 to 120 C for 3 hours. After being cooled, the reaction mixture was dissolved with heating in ethanol, followed by addition of concentrated hydrochloric acid 0.2 ml . After the mixture was cooled, precipitated crystals were collected by filtration and washed with ethanol. The crystals were recrystallized from ethanol to obtain 0.27 g of the title compound as white crystals yield 33 . A mixture of 1RS,2RS 2 amino 5 methyl 1 phenylhexan 1 ol 1.04 g, 5 mmol and 1 3 chloropropyl piperidine 0.81 g, 5 mmol was melted at 70 C in a nitrogen atmosphere. The mixture was then heated at 110 to 120 C for 3 hours. After being cooled, the reaction mixture was dissolved with heating in ethanol, followed by addition of concentrated hydrochloric acid 0.5 ml . The resulting mixture was concentrated and the residue was crystallized by treatment with ethanol and hexane. The crystals were collected by filtration, washed with ethanol hexane and then recrystallized from ethanol hexane to obtain 1.24 g of the title compound as white crystals yield 61 . A mixture of 1RS,2RS 2 amino 1 phenyloctan 1 ol 1.77 g, 8 mmol and 1 3 chloropropyl piperidine 1.29 g, 8 mmol was melted at 70 C in a nitrogen atmosphere. The mixture was then heated at 110 to 120 C for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was dissolved with heating in ethanol, followed by addition of concentrated hydrochloric acid 0.67 ml . Ethyl acetate was added and the resulting mixture was allowed to stand. Precipitated crystals were collected by filtration and washed with ethyl acetate and then with hexane to obtain 1.96 g of the title compound as white crystals yield 59 . A mixture of 1RS,2SR 2 amino 5 methyl 1 phenylhexan 1 ol 1.04 g, 5 mmol and 1 2 chloroethyl piperidine 0.74 g, 5 mmol was melted at 70 6 in a nitrogen atmosphere. The mixture was then heated at 110 to 120 C for 3 hours. After being cooled, the reaction mixture was dissolved in water. The solution was basified with 2N NaOH and then extracted with ether. The ethereal extract was washed twice with water and once with brine, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in acetone 20 ml , followed by addition of concentrated hydrochloric acid 0.74 ml . Precipitated crystals were collected by filtration and washed with acetone. The crystals were recrystallized from ethanol 10 ml ether 2 ml to obtain 0.34 g of the title compound as white crystals yield 17 . A mixture of 1RS,2SR 2 amino 5 methyl 1 phenylhexan 1 ol 1.04 g, 5 mmol and 1 3 chloropropyl piperidine 0.81 g, 5 mmol in benzene 10 ml was refluxed for 40 hours. After being cooled, the reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in ethanol 10 ml , followed by addition of 6N HCl in EtOH 2 ml . Precipitated crystals were collected by filtration and then recrystallized from ethanol to obtain 1.15 g of the title compound as white crystals yield 57 . A mixture of 1RS,2SR 2 amino 5 methyl 1 phenylhexan 1 ol 1.04 g, 5 mmol , 3 piperidinopropyl tosylate hydrochloride 2.00 g, 6 mmol and sodium bicarbonate 1.05 g, 12.5 mmol in ethanol 10 ml was refluxed for 1 hour. After cooling, to the reaction mixture were added ether 100 ml , water 50 ml and 2N NaOH 5 ml and the resulting mixture was well shaken. The ethereal layer was separated and washed three times with water, then once with brine, followed by drying and subsequent concentration under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in ethanol and to the solution was added 6N HCl in EtOH 1.5 ml . Precipitated crystals were collected by filtration and then recrystallized from ethanol to obtain 0.73 g of the title compound as white crystals yield 36 . To a solution of 1RS,2SR 5 methyl l phenyl 2 3 piperidinopropylamino hexan 1 ol 1.66 g, 5 mmol in toluene 25 ml was added sodium hydride 0.14 g, 6 mmol and the mixture was refluxed for 1 hour. To the reaction mixture was added methyl tosylate 1.12 g, 6 mmol and the resulting mixture was refluxed for further 1 hour. After being cooled, the mixture was washed twice with water and once with brine, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by neutral alumina column chromatography alumina 40 g, eluent chloroform to give 1.1 g of oily matter. To a solution of the matter in acetone 20 ml was added concentrated hydrochloric acid 0.1 ml and the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was recrystallized from acetone 10 ml ethanol 0.2 ml to obtain 0.45 g of the title compound as white crystals yield 21 . To a cooled mixture of 1RS,2SR 5 methyl 1 phenyl 2 3 piperidinopropylamino hexan 1 ol 821 mg, 2.47 mmol in ether 36 ml and a 10 NaOH aqueous solution 15 ml was added dropwise a solution of acetyl chloride 0.21 g 2.7 mmol in benzene. The organic layer was separateu, washed with brine, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography to obtain an N acetylated product A mixture of 2 bromo 5 methyl 1 phenylhexan 1 ol prepared from 2 bromo 5 methyl 1 phenylhexan 1 one by usual NaBH₄ reduction 1.0 g, 3.69 mmol and 1 3 aminopropyl piperidine 1.05 g, 7.38 mmol was heated at 110 C for 4 hours in a nitrogen atmosphere. After being cooled, the reaction mixture was dissolved in 1N HCl 50 ml and the solution was washed with ether. The aqueous layer was basified with 1N NaOH and then extracted twice with ether. The combined ethereal extract was washed three times with water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by preparative TLC to give pale yellow oily matter. To a solution of the matter in ethanol was added in excess 18 NC1 in EtOH and the resulting mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved with heating in ethanol 15 ml and to the mixture was then added 10 ml of acetone. The mixture was stirred at room temperature. Precipitated crystals were collected by filtration to obtain 0.52 g of the title compound yield 35 . To a solution of 1 3 aminopropyl piperidine 0.14 g, 1 mmol in chloroform 2 ml was added a solution of 2 bromo 5 methyl 1 phenylhexan 1 one bp 128 130 C 2.5 mmHg prepared from 5 methyl 1 phenylhexan 1 one by usual bromination 0.54 g, 2 mmol in chloroform 4 ml and the mixture was stirred for 4 hours at room temperature in a nitrogen atmosphere. The reaction mixture was concentrated below 30 C under reduced pressure. To a solution of the residue in methanol 4 ml was added sodium borohydride 0.08 g with ice cooling and the mixture was stirred for 1 hour at room temperature. The reaction mixture was concentrated below 30 C under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in 1N HCl and the solution was washed twice with ethyl acetate, basified with 1N NaOH and then extracted with ether. The ethereal extract was washed with water and then with brine, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure to obtain 0.18 9 of pale yellow oil. To a solution of the oil in ethanol 4 ml was added 0.22 g of 18 HCl in EtOH and the mixture was allowed to stand overnight. Precipitated crystals were collected by filtration to obtain 0.11 g of the title compound as white crystals yield 27 . To a refluxing mixture of 1 3 aminopropyl piperidine 284 mg, 2 mmol , sulfurous acid 6 SO₂ aqueous solution 1.1 ml and zinc dust 200 mg in methanol 2.5 ml was added dropwise over a period of 1 hour a solution of 5 methyl 1 phenylhexane 1,2 dione bp 104 107 C 2 mmHg prepared from 2 bromo 5 methyl 1 phenylhexan 1 one by a known method N. Kornblum and H. W. Frazier J. Am. Chem. Soc., A mixture of 1 hydroxy 5 methyl 1 phenylhexan 2 one bp 111 115 C 2 mmHg prepared by a known method, e.g. D. H. Hey J. Chem. Soc., 1232 1930 413 mg, 2 mmol , 1 3 aminopropyl piperidine 285 mg, 2 mmol and 0.4 g of 5 Pd C in methanol 20 ml was shaken in a shaker bomb at 4 atms of hydrogen for 16 hours at room temperature. The catalysts were removed by filtration and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in ether and the solution was washed twice with water, dried and then evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in ethanol 12 ml and to the solution was added 0.7 ml of 6N HCl in EtOH. The resulting solution was allowed to stand. Precipitated crystals were collected by filtration to obtain 340 mg of the title compound yield 42 . To a solution of 1 3 aminopropyl piperidine 285 mg, 2 mmol in methanol 6 ml was added 0.1 ml of 6.8N HCl in MeOH, 1 hydroxy 5 methyl 1 phenylhexan 2 one 413 mg, 2 mmol and sodium cyanoborohydride 126 mg, 2 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred for 19 hours at room temperature. The mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and to the residue was added 1N HCl and ether. The aqueous layer was separated, basified with a 10 NaOH aqueous solution and then extracted three times with ether. The combined ethereal extract was washed twice with water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in ethanol 12 ml . To the solution was added 0.70 ml of 6N HCl in EtOH and the resulting mixture was allowed to stand. Precipitated crystals were collected by filtration to obtain 228 mg of the title compound yield 28 . To a solution of sodium hydroxide 1.44 g in water 6.6 ml was added a solution of 4RS,5SR 4 3 methylbutyl 5 phenyl 3 3 piperidinopropyl 1,3 oxazolidin 2 one 717 mg, 2 mmol in ethanol 53 ml , the mixture was refluxed for 26 hours and then concentrated under reduced pressure. Water was added to the residue and the mixture was extracted three times with chloroform. The combined extract was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in ethanol 15 ml and concentrated hydrochloric acid 0.34 ml was added. Precipitated crystals were collected by filtration, washed first with ethanol and then with hexane to obtain 0.75 g of the title compound as white crystals yield 78 . The compounds listed in Table 4 A were prepared in a similar manner as described in Examples 1 to 4 and the physical data of these compounds were shown in Table 4 B. Thionyl chloride 34.8 ml, 480 mmol was added to a mixture of 2 1,3 dioxo 2 azaindan 2 yl 4 methylpentanoic acid 83.61 g, 320 mmol and benzene 320 ml . The resulting mixture was heated under reflux for 2 hours. The solvent and excess thionyl chloride were removed by distillation under reduced pressure, followed by addition of benzene 320 ml . The benzene was removed and fresh benzene 480 ml was added to form a solution. Anhydrous aluminum chloride 106.7 g, 800 mmol was added immediately to the solution and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was poured into ice water 700 ml . The aqueous layer was extracted with benzene 200 ml . After being washed first with water and then with an aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and with brine, the combined organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate and then evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was treated with ethanol to give crystals. The crystals were dissolved with heating in ethanol 80 ml and hexane 160 ml was added. Precipitated crystals were collected by filtration and washed first with a 1 2 mixed solution 240 ml of ethanol and hexane and then with hexane. The crystals were dried in air to obtain 74.6 g of the title compound as white crystals yield 73 . Sodium cyanoborohydride 177 g, 2.82 mol was added over 3 hours to a solution of the compound 141.4 g, 440 mmol obtained in Reference Example 1 in chloroform 660 ml and acetic acid 440 ml while maintaining the reaction temperature below 30 C. The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for further 3 hours and then chloroform 1 liter and water 1.4 liters were added. The organic layer was separated and washed twice with water, once with an aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and once with brine. After being dried over sodium sulfate, the organic layer was evaporated under reduced pressure to provide white crystals 142 g . The crystals were then charged on silica gel column chromatography silica gel 2.8 kg, solvent benzene to obtain first 94.3 g of the 1RS,2SR isomer as white crystals yield 66 and then 48.4 g of the 1RS,2RS isomer as white crystals yield 34 . Aluminum isopropoxide 125.6 g, 615 mmol was added to a suspension of 2 1,3 dioxo 2 azaindan 2 yl 4 methyl 1 phenylpentan 1 one 72.3 g, 225 mmol in isopropanol 1,000 ml . The mixture was heated under reflux for 6.5 hours. The isopropanol was removed by distillation under reduced pressure and to the residue were added ethyl acetate 800 ml and an aqueous solution of sodium sulfate. The resulting organic layer was decanted and the residue was washed twice with ethyl acetate 200 ml . The combined organic layer was washed with brine. The organic solution was dried and the solvent was removed by distillation under reduced pressure. The residue was recrystallized twice from benzene to obtain 29.3 g of the title compound as white crystals yield 40 . 1RS,2SR 2 1,3 Dioxo 2 azaindan 2 yl 4 methyl 1 phenylpentan 1 ol 80.0 g, 247 mmol was dissolved with heating 50 C in ethanol 800 ml , followed by addition of a mixture of 85 hydrazine hydrate 19.0 ml in ethanol 200 ml . The resulting mixture was heated under reflux for 3 hours. After ice cooling, 4N HCl 700 ml was added. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes. Insoluble matter was removed by filtration through celite and then washed with 4N hydrochloric acid 140 ml . The washing was added to the filtrate and the solution was condensed under reduced pressure to remove the ethanol. A 6N NaOH solution 570 ml was added with ice cooling and the mixture was extracted three times with chloroform. After being dried over sodium sulfate, the organic layer was evaporated to obtain 43.2 g of the title compound as white crystals yield 91 . 2 Bromo 4 methyl 1 4 methylphenyl pentan 1 one 13.5 g, 50 mmol and potassium phthalimide 9.26 g, 50 mmol were thoroughly mixed and heated at 160 C for 2 hours. After cooling, to the reaction mixture were added ethyl acetate 100 ml and water 50 ml . The resulting organic layer was separated and washed with brine. The organic solution was then dried over sodium sulfate and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was crystallized by treatment with hexane and the crystals were recrystallized from hexane to obtain 12.2 g of the title compound as white crystals yield 73 . A mixture of potassium hydroxide 15 g in water 150 ml and 2 1,3 dioxo 2 azaindan 2 yl 1 phenylheptanone 20.1 g, 60 mmol was refluxed for 30 minutes. After being cooled, the mixture was acidified with 5 hydrochloric acid. Precipitated white curd was separated by decantation. To the curd was added 225 ml of 5 hydrochloric acid and the mixture was refluxed for 1 hour and then allowed to stand overnight at room temperature. The white precipitate was removed by filtration and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The remaining water was removed as an ethanol azeotrope. The residue was treated with hexane to give 14.5 g of 2 amino 1 phenylheptan 1 one hydrochloride yield 100 . To a cooled solution of the aminoketone hydrochloride 13.1 g in methanol 130 ml was added sodium borohydride 1.53 g, 40 mmol in limited amounts so as to maintain the reaction temperature below 15 C. Thereafter, the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour and concentrated under reduced pressure. To the residue was added chloroform and water. The mixture was basified with 2N NaOH and the organic layer was separated. The aqueous layer was extracted twice with chloroform and the combined organic layer was washed with brine, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then evaporated under reduced pressure. The residual white solid was recrystallized from hexane to obtain 7.95 g of the title compound as white crystals yield 71 . Acetic anhydride 10 ml was added to 1RS,2SR 2 amino 1 phenylheptan 1 ol 4.15 g, 20 mmol and the mixture was heated at 70 C for 10 minutes. After being cooled, the reaction mixture was poured into water 100 ml to which chloroform was added, followed by gradual addition of an aqueous sodium hydroxide solution. The solution thus basified was extracted with chloroform and the extract was dried. The solvent was removed by distillation under reduced pressure to obtain a colorless oil. The oil was ice cooled, followed by addition of thionyl chloride 20 ml . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 20 minutes. Water 30 ml was added in limited amounts with caution and the mixture was heated under reflux for 2 hours. The mixture was cooled and then water was added. Subsequent to washing of the mixture with ether, the resulting aqueous layer was separated and basified with an aqueous sodium hydroxide solution. The mixture was extracted three times with chloroform and dried. The organic solution was evaporated under reduced pressure to give white crystals. The crystals were recrystallized from hexane to obtain 2.73 g of the title compound as white crystals yield 66 . 2 Hydroxyimino 1 4 methoxyphenyl 4 methylpentan 1 one 8.72 g, 37.1 mmol was dissolved in acetic acid 88 ml . To the solution was added 5 palladium charcoal 0.87 g and the reactant was catalytically hydrogenated at normal pressure at 80 C until hydrogen was absorbed in a molar amount of three times that of the reactant. After removal of the catalyst by filtration, the acetic acid was removed under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in 1N HCl 80 ml . The solution was washed twice with ether 30 ml and the aqueous layer was basified with a 20 aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide. The aqueous layer thus treated was extracted three times with chloroform and the extracts were combined together and then washed once with brine. The resulting extract was dried over sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed by distillation under reduced pressure to give light yellowish crystals 6.80 g . The crystals were recrystallized from benzene and hexane to obtain 5.24 g of the title compound as white crystals yield 63 . Amino alcohols useful as the starting materials for the compounds of the invention were synthesized by the combined use of the methods illustrated in Reference Examples Method A Reference Examples 1, 2 and 4, Method B Reference Examples 1 and 6, Method C Reference Example 7, Method D Reference Example 8, Method E Reference Examples 5, 3 and 4, Method F Reference Examples 5, 2 and 4 . The melting points and synthetic methods of the starting materials thus obtained are give in Table 5. A mixture of 4RS, 5SR 4 3 methylbutyl 5 phenyl 1,3 oxazolidin 2 one mp 111 112 C prepared from 1RS,2SR 2 amino 5 methyl 1 phenylhexan 1 ol by a known method M. E. Dyen and D. Swern Chem. Rev.,