# NEMATODE STORAGE AND TRANSPORT

## Claims
Verfahren zum Aufbewahren insektenpatogener Nematoden,

## Description
This invention relates to the storage of entomopathogenic nematodes which are particularly useful for the control of insect pests. In the search for alternative agricultural insecticides which will control insect pests with minimal environmental impact, attention is now turning to biological agents for such control. Entomopathogenic nematode families which include Entomopathogenic nematodes are found in soil as the third stage infective juvenile, which is able to seek out and penetrate insect larvae adults. These nematodes carry specific symbiotic bacteria The concept of pest control with entomopathogenic nematodes is based on mass rearing of nematodes and effective application to insect pests susceptible to nematodes. Progress in exploitation of entomopathogenic nematodes for biological control has been hindered due to problems mainly with mass rearing and the inability to efficiently store them. In the past rearing of nematodes was restricted to in vivo methods such as on Storage and transport of nematodes have emerged as the crucial factors before nematodes are accepted as a practical alternative to chemical insecticides. It is known that the third stage juvenile can survive in soil for an extended period and under very extreme conditions such as desiccation and freezing, revive as the condition becomes favourable and infect insects when they emerge, however the numbers surviving these conditions are not large. The nematode is, on the other hand, particularly vulnerable to quick desiccation and exposure to UV radiation and high temperature. The third stage infective juvenile, a non feeding stage, lives on stored substrates. It is likely that the survival capacity of a given nematode species will relate to its ability to accummulate particular energy reserves, such as glycogen or lipids, during the growth phases prior to the desired infective stage, and to mobilise these at a rate sufficient to meet non growth survival demands. Excessive mobilisation in environments not conducive to infection of the target insect host by this infective third stage would constitute wasteful energy consumption and reduce duration of survival and subsequent chance of infection. Thus survival time may in part be determined by the available energy store, but may also involve several additional factors such as, enzyme deactivation and the generation and excretion of toxic metabolic by products. Nematodes, currently used for efficacy tests on certain insects, are stored at a reduced temperature, 1 10 C, where the rate of catabolism in the nematode is reduced. Oxygen is either fed continuously intermittently or provided by limiting the number of nematodes in sealed containers. Many workers have emphasised importance of oxygenation and large surface area to volume ratio for oxygen exchange when storing nematodes Dutky et al, 1964 and Hara et al 1981 . The contact area of the nematode suspension to air is increased by using filter paper, tracing paper, cottonwool, sponge etc. For example, 500 million However, the above workers discuss the preservation of nematodes in the context of supplying nematodes for laboratory and field trials. Generally the methods for storing nematodes described for field trials and laboratory use are not suitable for a wide commercial scale distribution due to shortcomings such as It is an object of the present invention to provide methods for storage and transport of nematodes which are more amenable for commercial application. According to the present invention there is provided a method of storing entomopathogenic nematodes comprising mixing a suspension of infective juvenile entomopathogenic nematodes with an adsorbent, which adsorbs to its surface, water molecules to lower water activity in the mixture, and storing the mixture under conditions in which microbial growth is inhibited. Preferably, nematodes are stored in the presence of an adsorbent such as activated carbon, or synthetic type resins such as Amberlite. Preferably the adsorbent is in the form of a powder, powder embedded in a gel or pellets. In this aspect of the invention, a nematode cream or suspension is mixed with an appropriate quantity of an adsorbent such as activated carbon and stored under conditions which inhibit microbial growth. In this aspect the nematodes may be stored under substantially anaerobic conditions or aerobic conditions or under vacuum. Preferably, the nematodes are stored in the container in substantialy anaerobic conditions. However, it has been found that the presence or absence of oxygen is of no great consequence although the anaerobic conditions will tend to reduce the possibility of undesirable microbial growth. Preferably the adsorbent in the nematode adsorbent mixture comprises from 10 70 by weight. It follows that the nematode cream preferably comprises 90 30 by weight of the mixture. Preferably, the nematode concentration in the nematode cream is from 0.2 to 2 x 10⁶ nematodes per gram of cream. The adsorbent is a material which adsorbs to its surface various chemical entities possibly toxins or water molecules to lower water activity . This is to be differentiated from an absorbent material or other relatively inert materials such as wood chips, sponge, sand, filter paper and charcoal non activated . Another aspect of the present invention is based upon the surprising discovery that infective nematodes will remain viable for substantial periods of time in the absence of oxygen and at temperatures up to 40 C. In accordance with this aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of storing entomopathogenic nematodes wherein a cream of infective juvenile entomopathogenic nematodes is stored under substantially anaerobic conditions. The term substantially anaerobic conditions means that the conditions are such that the nematodes are deprived of free oxygen. It should be noted that the amount of oxygen present in the storage atmosphere may vary, and anaerobiosis may mean different O₂ levels for different species. This aspect of the invention is premised on the finding by the present inventors that the infective juveniles do not require oxygenation aeration or high surface to volume ratios during storage and hence initial storage conditions may be relatively aerobic but will become anaerobic once O₂ levels are depleted by nematode respiration. Anaerobic conditions may be obtained by a variety of methods. For example, as indicated above the nematodes themselves may deplete the O₂ in the storage atmosphere. Alternatively the nematodes may be packed under vacuum or under nitrogen, carbon dioxide or other inert gases. Preferably oxygen levels are less than about 0.4 v v, more preferably 0.25 but, as indicated above, anaerobiosis may be higher for different species. The above conditions relate to commercially used quantites of nematodes i.e. levels of at least about 0.2 x 10⁶ nematodes gm of cream, which is even more surprising in light of the prior art which describes relatively low concentrations of nematodes. Preferably, the nematodes are stored under conditions wherein microbial growth is inhibited, preferably in the presence of an antimicrobial agent. As used herein, the term antimicrobial refers to substances which will either destroy or inhibit the growth of bacteria and fungi. The term embraces bacteriostats, bacteriocides, fungistats and fungicides. Preferably, the antimicrobial embodiment is formaldehyde or sodium hypochlorite solution, preferably a 0.1 to 1.0 w w solution. A number of alternative antimicrobial agents are available so long as they are non toxic in the amounts used to the nematodes. In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention, the nematodes are washed with an antimicrobial agent capable of sterilising the surface of the nematodes before storage in the container. In an alternative aspect of the present invention there is provided a method characterised in that the nematodes are stored transported in a high osmotic strength solution, non toxic to the nematodes. In a preferred form of this embodiment, the nematodes are suspended in a 30 70 w w solution of a mono or disaccharide, such as sucrose or glucose. Without being limited to theory, it is thought that the high osmotic strength solution reduces undesirable microbial growth or possibly lowers the water activity of the system and directly enhances nematode stability. In accordance with one aspect of the present invention, the nematodes are stored on a powdery or particulate adsorbent. In the case of charcoal powder, the nematodes can be applied in admixture with the charcoal but in a number of other instances where the adsorbent is in the form of pellets or where the nematodes are transported on a carrier matrix, it is necessary to recover the nematodes from the carrier prior to application to the desired locus. Recovery of the nematodes can be time consuming, labour intensive and often results in high losses due to poor removal from the carrier. In addition, small pieces of the carrier present in the isolated nematode suspension can cause subsequent handling problems such as by blocking application devices. In order to overcome this problem there is provided a container for the storage and transport of nematodes which comprises a sealable container having a first chamber to receive a nematode carrier matrix, a second chamber to facilitate recovery of the nematodes from said matrix and means adapted to retain the carrier matrix in said first chamber but which means is nematode permeable. Preferably the means to retain the carrier matrix in said first chamber comprises a mesh of suitable mesh size through which the nematodes may penetrate, a nematode permeable sponge filter, or a pouch, all or a portion of which is nematode permeable. Notwithstanding other forms which may fall within the present invention, several preferred embodiments will now be described with reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein With reference to Fig. 1, there is depicted a sealed container 2 such as of a plastic material which contains a nematode cream 3 mixed with adsorbent such as activated carbon. The amount of activated carbon may vary within broad limits, but satisfactory results have been achieved with an amount of activated carbon in the range 30 50 by wt. With reference to Fig. 2, the nematode cream 5 is contained within a semi permeable membrane sac 4, such as a dialysis tube. The sac 4 is enveloped by container 6 which contains charcoal or a suspension of charcoal in a liquid, such as water or buffer. Preferably, an antimicrobial agent is incorporated in the nematode cream or in the liquid contained within container 6 surrounding sac 4. The embodiment depicted in Fig. 2 is particularly suitable for applications where the charcoal is to be maintained separate from the nematode cream. Preferably, the permeable membranes have pore sizes smaller than 10 microns in diameter. It should be appreciated that charcoal formulation allows the nematodes to be packed at a high density, e.g. 1 million per gram with It should be appreciated that each of the above embodiments of this invention allow the nematodes to be stored under varying degrees of anaerobiosis oxygen tension. Nematodes may be stored under vacuum, or stored in nitrogen, nitrous oxide, carbon dioxide, or air. Moreover, the storage conditions do not require reduced temperatures. It will be seen that the nematodes can retain viability for significant periods of time at ambient temperatures up to about 37 C. The above methods are applicable to a wide range of nematodes and in particular pure or a mixture of strains of The field containers useful in the above transport methods of the present invention are of any suitable material or size, such as vacuum packed plastic sachets, syringe like moulds, air or inert gas filled bottles, jars, tins, or dialysis tubes. The nematodes may be removed from the container to be used directly or diluted with water or other solutions depending on the particular product formulation and application. It should be noted that the assessments of performance of storage formulations were based on infectivity as well as motility viability of stored nematodes. The routine bioassays of stored nematodes were conducted with sheep blowfly Having broadly portrayed the nature of the present invention, particular examples will now be described by way of illustration only. The nematode In another identical experiment, the viability of The nematode The results of these tests are given in the following Table 3 and show that the addition of a physiological buffer, such as M9, enhances the storage stability of nematodes. The nematodes The results demonstrate that the addition of an absorbent such as activated carbon greatly improves the storage stability of nematodes and that stability is further enhanced by the addition of the biocide, formaldehyde. The nematode The nematode 10ml of the mixture was filtered through a prefilter pad Millipore . A well drained pad with nematodes and activated carbon powder was placed in a plastic sachet and sealed. The viability of nematodes was 92 after being stored for 140 days at room temperature. The infectivity declined slightly after storage. The nematode Infectivity was intact for 30 days at 24 C and at least 180 days at 4 C. The content of sachets were suspended in water and applied through high pressure nozzles 2000 KPa on artichokes. No detrimental effect of charcoal was recognized during application. The efficacy of stored nematodes was satisfactory against artichoke plume moth, The content of one sachet 90 gram is sufficient to cover 500 5,000 m² of soil at an application rate, 10⁴ 10⁵ nematodes m². Dutky, S.R., Thompson, J.B., and Cantwell, G.E. 1964 A technique for the mass propagation of the D D 136 nematode. J. Insect Pathol, Bedding R.A. 1984 Larger Scale production storage and transport of the insect parasitic nematodes