# Process for producing ethylene copolymer.

## Abstract
In a process for producing an ethylene copolymer by copolymerizing ethylene with an α olefin or copolymerizing ethylene with an α olefin and a non conjugated diene in the presence of a Ziegler Natta catalyst comprising an or ganoaluminum compound and a compound of a transistion metal belonging to Group IV or V of the periodic table or comprising these and a catalyst activating agent, in a poly merization medium which is substantially incapable of dis solving the resulting ethylene copolymer, and thereby producing a rubberlike ehtylene copolymer in particulate form, the improvement which comprises adding to the poly merization reaction system, as adhesion preventing agent, an alkali metal salt of a sulfocarboxylic acid dialkyl ester or a composition comprising a a polysulfone copolymer of sulfur dioxide and an olefin compound, b a polyamine comprising a reaction product of epichlorohydrin with an N aliphatic hydrocarbylalkylene diamine, and c an oil soluble sulfonic acid.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. In a process for producing an ethylene copolymer by copolymerizing ethylene with an cr olefin or copolymerizing ethylene with an a ofefin and a non conjugated diene in the presence of a Ziegler Natta catalyst comprising an organoaluminum compound and a compound of a transition metal belonging to Group IV or V of the periodic table or comprising these and a catalyst activating agent, in a polymerization medium which is substantially incapable of dissolving the resulting ethylene copolymer, and thereby producing a rubberlike ethylene copolymer in particulate form, the improvement which comprises adding to polymerization system, as an adhesion preventing agent, an alkali metal salt of sulfocarboxylic acid dialkyl ester or a composition comprising a a polysulfone copolymer of sulfur dioxide and an olefin compound, b a polyamine comprising a reaction product of epichlorohydrin with an N aliphatic hydrocarbylalkylenediamine, and c an oilsoluble sulfonic acid. 2. A process according to Claim 1, wherein the alkali metal salt of a sulfocarboxylic acid dialkyl ester is an alkali metal salt of dialkyl sulfosuccinate. 3. A process according to Claim 2, wherein the alkali metal salt of a dialkyl sulfosuccinate is an alkali metal salt of dioctyl sulfosuccinate or dihexyl sulfosuccinate. 4. A process according to Claim 1, wherein the alkali metal salt is a sodium salt or a potassium salt. 5. A process according to Claim 1, wherein the amount of the adhesion preventing agent is 5 to 100 ppm in the polymerization medium. 6. A process according to Claim 1, wherein the polymerization medium is propylene, propane, l butene, butane, methylene chloride, ethylene chloride or ethyl chloride. 7. A process according to Claim 1, wherein the aolefin is propylene or l butene, and the non conjugated diene is 1,4 hexadiene, dicyclopentadiene or 5 ethylidene2 norbornene. 8. A process according to Claim 1, wherein the polymerization temperature is 400C to 600C. 9. A process according to Claim 1, wherein the organoaluminum compound is triethylaluminum, diethylaluminum chloride, diisobutylaluminum chloride, ethylaluminum sesquichloride or ethylaluminum dichloride. 10. A process according to Claim 1, wherein the transition metal compound is vanadium tetrachloride, vanadium oxytrichloride, vanadic acid triethoxide, vanadic acid diethoxychloride, vanadic acid ethoxydichloride, vanadic acid tributoxide, vanadic acid dibutoxychloride, vanadic acid butoxydichloride or vanadium triacetylacetonato. 11. A process according to Claim 1, wherein a catalyst activating agent is present in the polymerization system. 12. A process according to Claim 1, wherein the catalyst activating agent is methyl trichloroacetate, butyl perchlorocrotonate, butyl 2,3,4,4 tetrachloro 3butenate or trichloroacetic acid ethyl cellosolve ester. 13. A process according to Claim 1, wherein the ethylene content of the ethylene copolymer is 20 to 908 by weight.

## Description
PROCESS FOR PRODUCING ETHYLENE COPOLYMERBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONFIELD OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to a process for producing a copolymer of ethylene and a olefin or a copolymer of ethylene, an a olefin and a non conjugated diene.DESCRIPTION OF THE PRIOR ART There is well known a process for producing a copolymer of ethylene and a olefin or ethylene, an a olefin and a non conjugated diene hereinafter referred to as ethylene copolymer by using a so called ZieglerNatta catalyst comprising a combination of a compound of a transition metal belonging to Group IV or V of the periodic table and an organoaluminium compound. As the production process, there are known a solution polymerization method comprising conducting polymerization in a solvent capable of dissolving the resulting copolymer, or a slurry polymerization method comprising conducting polymerization in a polymerization medium substantially incapable of dissolving the resulting copolymer, and dispersing a particulate polymer into the polymerization medium.Among these production processes, the slurry polymerization method is widely used because it is advantageous as compared with the solution polymerization method in that the viscosity of solution is low, that stirring and transfer are easy, and that separation of the polymer from the polymerization medium is easy. However, according to the slurry polymerization method, the resulting polymer particles adhere to agitating blades, reactor walls, pipes for transfer or the like, and mutual adhesion of the polymer particles also occurs because in particular, ethylene copolymers have adhesiveness. In the case of the ethylene copolymers, this adhesion becomes a particularly serious problem. In order to prevent such mutual adhesion of the polymer particles, adhesion of the polymer particles to reactor walls or agitating blades, and the like, there has been proposed a method in which polymerization reaction is conducted at a relatively low temperature of 800C to 300C Japanese Patent Publication No. 10,491 61 .However, in spite of the procedure at such a low temperature, there has not yet effectively been prevented mutual adhesion of the polymer particles, their adhesion to reactor walls or agitating blades, and the like.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION In producing an ethylene copolymer by such a slurry polymerization method, the present inventors have investigated a process for producing an ethylene copolymer efficiently by lowering the above mentioned defects and preventing mutual adhesion of the polymer particles, their adhesion to reactor walls or agitating blades, and the like, and have consequently found that the purpose described above can be achieved by the presence of a special adhesion preventing agent in a polymerization reaction system, whereby this invention has been accomplished. The object of this invention is to provide a process for producing an ethylene copolymer effectively. According to this invention, there is provided a process for producing an ethylene copolymer by copolymerizing ethylene with an a olefin or copolymerizing ethylene with an a olefin and a non conjugated diene in the presence of a Ziegler Natta catalyst comprising an organoaluminum compound and a compound of a transition metal belonging to Group IV or V of the periodic table or comprising these and a catalyst activating agent, in a polymerization medium which is substantially incapable of dissolving the resulting ethylene copolymer, and thereby producing a rubberlike ethylene copolymer in particulate form, which is characterized by adding to the polymerization reaction system, as adhesion preventing agent, an alkali metal salt of a sulfocarboxylic acid dialkyl ester or a composition comprising a a polysulfone copolymer of sulfur dioxide and an olefin compound, b a polyamine comprising a product of reaction of epichlorohydrin with an N aliphatic hydrocarbylalkylenediamine, and Cc an oil soluble sulfonic acid.DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION As the a olefin used in this invention, there are exemplified propylene, l butene, 4 methyl l pentene, l hexene, etc. As the non conjugated diene, there are exemplified 1,4 hexadiene, dicyclopentadiene, methyldicyclopentadiene, vinylnorbornene, 5 ethylidene 2 nonbronene, isopropenylnorbornene, etc. As the polymerization medium which is substantially incapable of dissolving the ethylene copolymer, there are exemplified propylene, propane, l butene, butane, methylene chloride, ethylene chloride, ethyl chloride, etc. These are used alone or as a mixture thereof. The above mentioned polymerization medium becomes a raction component in this invention in some cases, and in this case, it is used in an amount larger than the amount consumed for the reaction and the surplus medium acts as solvent. The composition of the ethylene copolymer can be changed over a wide range, but when the ethylene content becomes high, a partly crystalline polymer is produced, and hence for obtaining a rubberlike copolymer, it is preferable to set the starting monomer ratio so that the ethylene content of the ethylene copolymer is 20 to 90 by weight, preferably 30 to 86 by weight. As the catalyst for polymerization, there is used a so called Ziegler Natta catalyst which gives a heretofore well known rubberlike ethylene copolymer. This catalyst comprises an organoaluminum compound and a compound of a transition metal belonging to Group IV or V of the periodic table, and the combination of these can easily be selected by those skilled in the art. Further, it is also possible to co use a catalyst activating agent such as an ester of halogenated carboxylic acid, a halogenated ketone or the like, and a catalyst modifying agent such as a ketone, an ester, an alcohol or the like. Here, the organoaluminum compound is a compound represented by the general formula R nAlX3 n R wherein R is a hydrocarbon group having 1 to 20 carbon atoms, X is a halogen atom or an alkoxyl group, and n is a number satisfying 1 n 3 , for example, a compound represented by the formula R 3A, R 2AQX, R AQX2, R 1 5AQX1 5 .5 or the like, and these compounds are used alone or as a mixture thereof. Concrete examples of these compounds include triethylaluminum, triisopropylaluminum, triisobutylaluminum, trihexylaluminum, diethylaluminum chloride, diethylaluminum bromide, diisobutylaluminum chloride, diisobutylaluminum bromide, ethylaluminum sesquichloride, isobutylaluminum sesquichloride, ethylaluminum dichloride, isobutylaluminum chloride and the like. As the compound of a transition metal belonging to Group IV or V of the periodic table, vanadium compounds, titanium compounds and the like are preferred. As the vanadium compounds, there are exemplified compounds represented by the general formula VX4, VOX3 or VO OR n wherein R , X and n have the same meanings as defined above. Concrete examples of these compounds include vanadium tetrachloride, vanadium tetrabromide, vanadium oxytrichloride, vanadic acid triethoxide, vanadic acid diethoxychloride, vanadic acid ethoxydichloride, vanadic acid tributoxide, vanadic acid dibutoxychloride, vanadic acid butoxydichloride, vanadium triacetylacetonato, etc.As the titanium compounds, there are exemplified titanium tetrachloride, titanium trichloride, titanium trichloride supported on a magnesium compound, silica or the like.These can be used alone or as a mixture thereof. Further, as the catalyst activating agent, there are used esters of halogenated carboxylic acids, halogenated ketones, halogenated hydrocarbons, etc.Concrete examples of these compounds include methyl trichloroacetate, butyl perchlorocrotonate, butyl 2,3,4,4tetrachloro 3 butenate, ester of trichloroacetic acid and ethyl cellosolve, hexachloroacetone, perchlorobutadiene, etc. As to the polymerization condition, it is preferable to conduct the polymerization at a temperature tower than that of conventional polymerization conditions of olefins e.g., at 400 to 1200C, at atmospheric pressure to 100 kg cmê . When the polymerization reaction is conducted at a high temperature, adhesion of the resulting copolymer particles occurs. The polymerization at an extremely low temperature causes a decrease of the polymerization reaction rate, requires a high energy for removing heat of polymerization to maintain the system at a low temperature, and hence is not preferable. Therefore, the polymerization reaction is conducted preferably between 400C and 600C, more preferably between 300C and 400C. The pressure is atmospheric pressure to 100 kg cm2, and the polymerization reaction is conducted in the presence or absence of a chain transfer agent. As the alkali metal salt of a sulfocarboxylic acid dialkyl ester which is one of the adhesion preventing agents used in this invention, alkali metal salts of dialkyl sulfosuccinates are preferred, and more concretely, alkali metal salts of dioctyl sulfosuccinate or dihexyl sulfosuccinate are exemplified. As the alkali metal salts, sodium salts or potassium salts are preferred. The composition comprising a a polysulfone copolymer of sulfur dioxide and an olefin compound, b a polyamine comprising a reaction product of epichlorohydrin with an N aliphatic hydrocarbylalkylenediamine, and c an oil soluble sulfonic acid, which is the other adhesionpreventing agent, contains benzene, toluene, xylene, cyclohexane, fuel oil or the like or a mixture thereof as solvent, and preferably comprises 5 to 20 by weight of the polysulfone copolymer, 5 to 20 by weight of the polyamine, 5 to 10 by weight of the oil soluble sulfonic acid and 85 to 50 by weight of the solvent. Further, as the polysulfone copolymer, l decenepolysulfone consisting of sulfur dioxide and l decene and having an intrinsic viscosity of 0.04 to 0.08 300C, in toluene, 0.5 by weight solution is preferred.As the polyamine, a reaction product of N talo 1,3 diaminopropane with epichlorohydrin in a molar ratio of 1 1.5 is preferred.As the oil soluble sulfonic acid, dodecylbenzenesulfonic acid is preferred. The above mentioned adhesion preventing agent used in this invention brings about a sufficient effect even when added in a very small amount of usually 5 to 100 ppm, more preferably 10 to 50 ppm based on the polymerization medium introduced into a reactor. The polymerization reaction can be conducted by a batchwise or continuous operation. As to addition of the a adhesion preventing agent, in the case of the batchwise operation, said agent is added in one portion to a reaction vessel before the beginning of the polymerization, and in the case of the continuous operation, it is preferable to supply said agent to a reaction vessel continuously together with the polymerization medium.The adhesion preventing agents described above can be used alone or as a mixture thereof. Thus, according to the process of this invention, the polymerization reaction is not inhibited substantially, and mutual adhesion of polymer particles or adhesion of polymer particles to vessel walls, agitating blades or the like is reduced or prevented, so that an ethylene copolymer can be efficiently produced. This invention is explained below in more detail by way of Examples, but the invention is not limited thereto. EXAMPLE 1 In a 1.5 liter autoclave made of stainless steel were placed 400 g of propylene, 50 g of ethylene and 18 mg 40 ppm of sodium dioctyl sulfosuccinate, and cooled to OOC, after which 1.0 mmol of ethylaluminum sesquichloride and 0.1 mmol of vanadium oxytrichloride were continuously added. The temperature inside the autoclave was controlled at OOC. The ratio between unreacted ethylene and propylene in the reactor was controlled so that the ratio of them is kept at constant by feeding 27 g of ethylene continuously to the reactor. The ethylene propylene copolymer produced by the copolymerization reaction had suspended as particles in the polymerization medium propylene . After completion of the reaction, the polymerization was stopped by adding a small amount of methanol in the reactor, and the particulate copolymer was separated from the polymerization medium by filtration. The copolymer thus obtained was good rubberlike particles having a particle size of about 2 mm. There was observed no adhesion of copolymer particles to the inside of polymerization vessel or agitating blades. Thus, 43 g of the copolymer was obtained. The ethylene content of the copolymer was 68 by weight as determined by infrared absorption spectrum.COMPARATIVE EXAMPLE 1 The same procedures as in Example 1 were repeated, except that no sodium dioctyl sulfosuccinate was added.In this copolymerization, stirring by a stirrer became impossible 10 minutes after the copolymerization was started. After the polymerization was stopped by addition of a small amount of methanol, the same procedure as inExample 1 was conducted, but the copolymer thus obtained was not particulate but in the form of a large mass adhering to agitating blades. The ethylene content of this rubberlike copolymer was 66 by weight, and its yield was 16 g.EXAMPLE 2 Copolymerization was conducted in the same manner as in Example 1, except that as an adhesion preventing agent, the sodium dioctyl sulfosuccinate was replaced by 5 mg 11 ppm of Stadis 450 a composition consisting of a toluene solution toluene 66 by weight containing 13.3 by weight of a 1 1 copolymer of l decene and sulfur dioxide having an intrinsic viscosity of 0.05, 13.8 by weight of a reaction product of N talo 1,3 diaminopropane with epichlorohydrin in a molar ratio of 1 1.5 and 7.4 by weight of docecylbenzenesulfonic acid, manufactured by E.I. du Pont de Nemours Co. . After treatment was carried out in the same manner as in Example 1 to obtain 45 g of a good rubberlike particulate copolymer having a particle size of about 2 mm. The ethylene content of the copolymer thus obtained was 30 by weight. In this reaction, there was observed no adhesion of copolymer particles to the inside of polymerization vessel or agitating blades.EXAMPLE 3 Into the same reactor as used in Example 1 were introduced 400 g of propylene and 30 g of ethylene, after which 6.5 mg 15 ppm of sodium dioctyl sulfosuccinate was added, and the resulting mixture was maintained at SOC. Hydrogen was added as molecular weight regulator 2 at a partial pressure of 5 kg cm , and the copolymerization was conducted by continuously supplying 1.0 mmol of ethylaluminum sesquichloride, 0.02 mmol of vanadic acid ethoxydichloride VO OEt C2j and further 0.04 mmol of methyl trichloroacetate as catalyst activating agent.Thus, there was obtained 52 g of a good particulate copolymer having a particle size of about 2 mm. The ethylene content of this rubberlike copolymer was 34 by weight. In this invention, there was observed no adhesion of copolymer particles to polymerization vessel or agitating blades.EXAMPLE 4 Copolymerization was conducted in the same manner as in Example 1, except that an autoclave made of glass was used. Also in this copolymerization, there was observed neither mutual adhesion of polymer particles nor adhesion of polymer particles to vessel walls or agitating blades, and the resulting copolymer was good particles having a particle size of about 2 mm. Thus, 40 g of a copolymer having an ethylene content of 70 by weight was obtained.EXAMPLE 5 Into the same reactor as used in Example 1 were charged 1.2 liters of ethylene dichloride and 40 mg about 25 ppm of sodium dioctyl sulfosuccinate. Thereinto were introduced 18 g of ethylene and 60 g of l butene, after which while maintaining the reactor at 400C, hydrogen as a molecular weight regulator was added at a partial pressure of 0.4 kg cm2 and the copolymerization was conducted by continuously adding 1 mmol of ethylaluminum sesquichloride, 0.1 mmol of vanadium oxytrichloride and 0.4 mmol of n butylperchlorocrotonic acid. During the copolymerization, 43 g of ethylene and 8 g of l butene were continuously supplied. After treatment of the resulting product was carried out in the same manner as inExample 1 to obtain 50.6 g of a good rubberlike particulate copolymer having a particle size of about 2 mm. The ethylene content of the copolymer was 85.2 by weight.In this copolymerization, there was observed no adhesion of copolymer particles to polymerization vessel or agitating blades.EXAMPLE 6 Copolymerization was conducted in the same manner as in Example 5, except that 14 mg of TiC14 supported on MgCl2 SiO2 and 2 mmol of triethylaluminum were used as catalyst components, that 25 g of ethylene and 80 g of propylene were used as initially charged monomers, and that during the polymerization, 31 g of ethylene and 10 g of propylene were continuously supplied. After treatment was carried out in the same manner as in Example 5 to obtain 40.3 g of a good rubberlike particulate copolymer having a particle size of about 2 mm. The ethylene content of the copolymer obtained was 78.3 . In this copolymerization, there was observed no adhesion of copolymer particles to polymerization vessel or agitating blades. EXAMPLE 7 Copolymerization was conducted in the same manner as in Example 1, except that 2.4 g of 5 ethylidene 2norbornene was continuously added in place of the ethylene continuously added during the copolymerization. The resulting ternary polymer was rubberlike good particles having a particle size of about 2 mm. Thus, 39 g of the ternary copolymer was obtained. The ethylene content of the ternary copolymer was 66 by weight as determined by infrared absorption spectrum, and its iodine value was 8.