# 4 Methyl 5 thioformamidinomethylimidazole dihydrochloride.

## Abstract
The present invention provided a novel compound, 4 methyl 5 thioformamidinomethylimidazole dihydrochlo ride, shown by formula I

## Claims
We claim 1. A compound shown by formula I EMI8.1 2. A method for producing a compound having formula I EMI8.2 characterized by reacting thiourea and 4 methyl 5 chloro methylimidazole in a solvent. 3. A production method according to claim 2, wherein the solvent is methanol. 4. A production method according to claim 2 or 3, wherein the reaction is carried out at room temperature.

## Description
4 METHYL 5 THlOFORMAMIDINOMETHYLIMIDAZOLE DIHYDROCHLORIDEBackground of the InventionField of the Invention The present invention relates to a novel intermediatB useful for producing pharmaceuticals which have recently drawn attention as H2 receptor antagonists, typically cimetidine.Description of the Related Art Imidazole derivatives having a pharmaceutical activity or imidazole compounds which function as a histamine antagonist toward an H2 receptor have recently drawn attention as treatment agents for peptic ulcer. These imidazole compounds, however, are synthesized through various complicated processes or expensive intermediates. For example, Japanese Patent Public DisclosureNo. 127361 1981 discloses a method for producing 4 2aminoethyl thiomethyl 5 methylimidazole of the following formula EMI1.1 and its acid addition salt, which is an intermediate, this method being characterized by reacting a compound of the following formula EMI2.1 wherein M indicates a hydrogen atom or an alkali metal and 2 chloroethylamine or 2 bromoethylamine in a system comprisingan aqueous solution of a strong base and an organic solvent in the presence of a phase transition catalyst of a quaternary ammonium salt or a quaternary phosphonium salt.This production method, however, uses relatively expensive raw materials, the reaction is complicated, and the yield of the intended compound is low. In addition, U.S. Patent No.3,950,333 claims guanidine compounds useful as H2 receptor antagonists and suggests several production methods, but does not describe the novel intermediate of the present invention nor the method for producing it.Summary of the Invention The present invention relates to a novel compound, 4methyl 5 thioformamidinomethylimidazole dihydrochloride, shown by formula I EMI3.1 Description of the Preferred Embodiment The compound of the present invention can be easily produced by reacting thiourea and 4 methyl 5 chloromethylimidazole in a solvent. The molar ratio of thiourea and 4 methyl 5chloromethyl imidazole is 1 0.8 1.2. Methanol or ethanol is used as a solvent. The reaction is carried out at a temperature in the range of 10 400C and preferably at room temperature. The raw material of the present invention, thiourea, is available on the market at a low price. Another raw material, 4 methyl 5 chloromethylimidazole, can be quantitatively synthesized by reacting 4 methyl 5hydroxymethylimidazole hydrochloride or 5 methyl 4hydroxymethylimidazole with thionyl chloride. The compound I of the present invention has the following advantages usefulness That is, cimetidine III which is an H2 receptor antagonist, can be easily synthesized by reacting the compound I with N cyano methylamino 2 chloroethylamino azomethine II in the presence of an alkali. EMI4.1 Furthermore, a novel imidazole thioether derivative shown by formula V can be synthesized by reacting the compound I with 4 chloro acetoacetic ester IV in the presence of an alkali. ClCH2COCH2COOR IV EMI4.2 wherein R indicates an alkyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms . The above described imidazole thioether derivative is a pharmaceutical which has recently come into the spotlight as an H2 receptor antagonist and is typically cimetidine. However, conventional production is, for example, by a method which uses an expensive mercapto derivative U.S.Patent No. 3,950,333 or a method which employs complicated processes and a catalyst Japanese Patent Public DisclosureNo. 127361 1981 . In addition, since the raw materials used in these methods are susceptible to oxidation, it is necessary to carry out the reactions in an inert gas flow. Thus the operation are complicated, and the yields are not always high. In contrast, the compound I of the present invention is generally stable and is characterized in that reactivity does not appear until it is put in an aqueous solution in the presence of an alkali. Thus, the invention is characterized by the fact that it becomes unnecessary to use an inert gas when using the compound I of the present invention as the raw material and that a useful compound, the imidazole thioether derivative, can be synthesized under extremely simple operating conditions. The compound I of the present invention is characterized by being capable of quantitative synthesis from thiourea and 4 methyl 5 chloromethylimidazole as well as by the fact that isolation and purification after the synthesis is unnecessary. This means that the product of the above described reaction can itself be used as the raw material for the synthesis of the imidazole thioether derivative. Furthermore, the alkali which is present in the synthesis of the imidazole thioether derivative using the compound I of the present invention is sometimes preferably alkaline produced by sodium carbonate rather than by caustic alkali. In addition, although this synthesis reaction generally progresses favorably only under agitation at room temperature, reaction carried out at a low temperature sometimes also progresses favorably. The present invention will be further explained with reference to an example.Example 15.24 g 0.2 mol of thiourea was dissolved in 350 ml of ethanol and 33.4 g 0.2 mol of 4 methyl 5chloromethylimidazole hydrochloride see Note was added to the resulting solution, dissolved and stirred at room temperature for 3 hours. The solution was then concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure. The dried substance was recrystallized from methanol to obtain 43.84 g of 4 methyl 5 thioformamidinomethyl imidazole dihydrochloride in the form of colorless prisms. The m. p. was 200 202or and the yield was 90 . MS m e 171 M 1 IR L KBr max cm l 1630, 1440, 2500 3300 1H NMR DMSO d6 S 2.36 3H, s, CH3 , 4.84 2H, s, CH2 , 9.10 1H, s, imidazole ring 9.63 4H, m, NH, NH, NH2 13C NMR DMSO d66 8.8 q, CH3 24.0 t, CH2 , 122.4 s, imidazole C5 127.6 s, imidazole C4 133.3 d, imidazole C2 EMI7.1 Note 4 Methyl 5 chloromethylimidazole used in the example was quantitatively obtained by reacting 4 methyl 5hydroxymethylimidazole hydrochloride or 5 methyl 4 hydroxymethylimidazole with thionyl chloride.