# Expression of biologically active platelet derived growth factor analogs in yeast cells

## Claims
Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragsstaaten BE, CH, DE, FR, GB, IT, LI, LU, NL, SE

## Description
The present invention relates to the production of PDGF analogs in general, and more specifically, tothe expression of biologically active PDGF analogs in yeast. Human platelet derived growth factor PDGF has been shown to be the major mitogenic protein inserum for mesenchymal derived cells. This is well documented by numerous studies of platelet extracts orpurified PDGF induction of either cell multiplication or DNA synthesis a pre requisite for cell division incultured smooth muscle cells, fibroblasts and glial cells Ross et al., It has been postulated that as a part of this response to injury, PDGF released by platelets may play acausative role in the development of the proliferative lesions of atherosclerosis Ross and Glomset, ibid. which is one of the principal causes of myocardial and cerebral infarction. Strategies for the prophylaxis andtreatment of atherogenesis in the past have been narrowly directed toward reducing risk factors for thedisease, such as lowering blood pressure in hypertensive subjects and reducing elevated cholesterol levelsin hypercholesterolemic subjects. Recent studies have shown that one of the two protein chains comprising PDGF and the putativetransforming protein of simian sarcoma virus SSV , an acute transforming retrovirus, appear to have arisenfrom the same or closely related cellular genes. In particular, computer analysis of a partial amino acidsequence of PDGF has revealed extensive homology with the gene product, p28 Although previous attempts, such as that summarized in Devare et al., While natural PDGF may be isolated from human plasma or platelets as starting material, it is acomplex and expensive process, in part due to the limited availability of the starting material. In addition, itis difficult to purify PDGF with high yield from other serum components due to its extremely low abundanceand biochemical properties. Furthermore, the therapeutic use of products derived from human blood carriesthe risk of disease transmission due to contamination by, for example, hepatitis virus, cytomegalovirus, orthe causative agent of Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome AIDS . In view of PDGF s clinical applicability in the treatment of injuries in which healing requires theproliferation of fibroblasts or smooth muscle cells and its value as an important component of a definedmedium for the growth of mammalian cells in culture, the production of useful quantities of proteinmolecules similar to authentic PDGF which possess mitogenic activity is clearly invaluable. In addition, the ability to produce relatively large amounts of PDGF would be a useful tool for elucidating the putative role of the v sis protein, p28 Further, since local accumulation of smooth muscle cells in the intimal layer of an arterial wall is centralto the development of atherosclerotic lesions Ross and Glomset, ibid. , one strategy for the prophylaxisand treatment of atherosclerosis would be to suppress smooth muscle cell proliferation. The ability toproduce large amounts of PDGF would be useful in developing inhibitors or designing specific approacheswhich prevent or interfere with the Briefly stated, the present invention discloses a DNA construct capable of directing the expression andsecretion of biologically active PDGF analogs in yeast cells. The DNA construct contains a transcriptionalpromoter followed downstream by a gene encoding a protein having substantially the same structureand or mitogenic activity as PDGF, and a signal sequence capable of directing the secretion of the proteinfrom the yeast cell. The gene may be the v sis gene or a derivative of the v sis gene of simiansarcoma virus or portions thereof which encode a protein having biological activity. Further, the derivative ofthe v sis gene may be the portion of the v sis gene which is substantially homologous to the B chain ofPDGF. In addition, the gene may be the human cDNA gene for PDGF or portions thereof encoding a proteinhaving biological activity. Another aspect of the invention discloses a method of preparing biologically active PDGF analogs byintroducing into a yeast host a DNA construct capable of directing the expression and secretion ofbiologically active PDGF analogs in yeast cells. The DNA construct contains a transcriptional promoterfollowed downstream by a gene encoding a protein having substantially the same structure and ormitogenic activity as PDGF and a signal sequence capable of directing the secretion of the protein from theyeast cell. Subsequent to introducing the DNA construct into the yeast host, the method includesgrowing the yeast host in an appropriate medium and then isolating the protein product of the genefrom the yeast host. Yeast host cells transformed with such a DNA construct are also disclosed. The DNA construct contains a transcriptional promoter followed downstream by a geneencoding a protein having substantially the same structure and or mitogenic activity as PDGF and a signalsequence capable of directing the secretion of the protein from the yeast cell, wherein the promoter and signal sequence are of yeast origin. According to the invention, the eucaryotic cell is a yeast cell, and the DNA constructmore appropriately termed an extrachromosomal element. Other aspects of the invention will become evident upon reference to the following detailed descriptionand attached drawings. Prior to setting forth the invention, it may be helpful to an understanding thereof to set forth definitionsof certain terms to be used hereinafter. As noted above, human platelet derived growth factor PDGF has been shown to be a major mitogenicprotein in serum. PDGF is known to be composed of two polypeptide chains, an A chain and a B chain,which are held together by disulfide bonds to form the biologically active molecule. The A chain and 8chain alone do not appear to exhibit any mitogenic activity Raines and Ross, ibid. , and attempts toreconstitute activity by reoxidation of the reduced polypeptides have not been successful. Recently, theamino acid sequence of the B chain has been shown to be substantially homologous to a portion of the v sis gene product, p28 Given the fact that biologically active PDGF was known to contain equimolar amounts of A and Bchains, and that previous attempts directed toward expressing v sis sequences in In its active form, PDGF is a heat stable protein composed of heterogeneously sized species ofbetween 28,000 and 31,000 Daltons, all of the individual species being active in stimulating DNA synthesis Raines and Ross, ibid. Deuel et al., Through studies of PDGF which has been extensively purified from platelet rich human plasma, it islikely, as noted above, that PDGF is composed of two polypeptide chains, an A chain 14,000 Daltons anda B chain 16,000 Daltons , which are disulfide bonded together to form the biologically active dimermolecule Raines Ross, Deuel et al., Antoniades, ibid. . The PDGF nomenclature found in the literature isnot consistent Doolittle et al., Waterfield et al., Raines and Ross, Johnsson et al., ibid. . The nomenclatureof Johnsson et al. ibid. has been adopted, wherein the two polypeptides found in pure PDGF are called Achain and B chain. The B chain is homologous to p28 The v sis gene, as mentioned above, is the transforming gene of simian sarcoma virus SSV . The v sisgene has been cloned and its DNA sequence determined Devare et al., As noted above, previous attempts at expressing v sis sequences in prokaryotes did not yieldbiologically active material. Further, the v sis gene product p28 An easily manipulable and well characterized eucaryote is the yeast cell. For these reasons, yeast waschosen as an appropriate eucaryotic cell within the present invention. Accordingly, thev sis gene and fragments thereof encoding the 109 amino acids with homology to the PDGF B chain wereinserted into yeast extrachromosomal elements containing a yeast promoter capable of directing theexpression of biologically active PDGF analogs. In accordance with the present invention, the yeastpromoter is followed downstream by a fragment of the v sis gene which encodes a protein havingsubstantially the same structure and or mitogenic activity as PDGF. Genes which encode a protein having substantially the same structure and or mitogenic activity asPDGF include the v sis gene or a derivative of the v sis gene of simian sarcoma virus SSV or portionsthereof or the human cDNA gene for PDGF or portions thereof. Specifically, DNA sequences encodingpolypeptides substantially homologous to the B chain of PDGF are preferred. The genes to be utilized inthe extrachromosomal element may be isolated using standard recombinant DNA techniques. The human PDGF cDNA gene may be isolated from a human cDNA library made from an appropriatesource of messenger RNA by using the v sis gene or a fragment thereof as a hybridization probe. Apreferred source of mRNA is human umbilical vein endothelial cells. These cells can be cultured Promoters which may be utilized in yeast include the yeast alpha factor MFαl promoter and the yeasttriose phosphate isomerase TPI promoter. Promoters may also be obtained from other yeast genes, e.g.,Alcohol Dehydrogenase 1 ADH1 , Alcohol Dehydrogenase 2 ADH2 . The constructions described herein were designed such that the v sis gene product would be secretedfrom the yeast cell into the media. This was accomplished through use of the secretory signal sequence ofthe yeast mating pheromone alpha factor Kurjan and Herskowitz, Once an appropriate DNA fragment containing the gene of interest is identified, it is ligated to anappropriate promoter and secretory signal sequence. Methods of ligation of DNA fragments have beenamply described Maniatis et al., The replicating plasmid YEpl3, containing an origin of replication and a selectable marker, the Suitable yeast expression vectors in this regard are the plasmids pCPOT and pMPOT2, which includethe After preparation of the DNA construct incorporating the TPI promoter, the alpha factor secretory signalsequence, the appropriate segment of the v sis gene or the human cDNA gene for PDGF, and the TPIterminator in an appropriate vector, the construct is transformed into the yeast host with a TPI deletion.Procedures for transforming yeast are well known in the literature. The transformed yeast cells may be selected by growth on conventional complex medium containingglucose when the pCPOT vector is utilized. A conventional medium such as YEPD 20 grams glucose, 20grams Bacto peptone, 10 grams yeast extract per liter may be used. Once selected, transformantscontaining the v sis expression constructions are grown to stationary phase on conventional complex media,the cells removed, and the medium concentrated. Noting that authentic human PDGF is a highly cationic and hydrophobic protein Raines and Ross, ibid. Antoniades, ibid. Deuel et al., 1981, ibid. , it was expectedthat the putative yeast product would possess similar characteristics, allowing it to be concentrated on ahydrophobic chromatography matrix such as C8 Sepharose Pharmacia Fine Chemicals AB, Uppsala,Sweden . Using a variety of assays, it is demonstrated that growth media from yeast cultures expressing the v sisderivatives possess biological activities identical to authentic human PDGF. The techniques of cell culture have advanced considerably in the last several years as have the numberand varieties of mammalian cells which will grow in culture. Central to these advances is a betterunderstanding of the nutritional requirements i.e., hormones and growth factors of cultured cells Barnesand Sato, To summarize the examples which follow, The following examples are offered by way of illustration, and not by way of limitation. Unless otherwise indicated, standard molecular biological methods were used. Restriction endonucleasesand other DNA modification enzymes i.e., T The SSV retroviral genome was cloned from SSV II nonproductively infected normal rat kidney NRK cells which had SSV integrated into their genome Devare et al., 1982, ibid. . The SSV DNA was isolated asa 5.8 kilobase kb Eco RI fragment and subsequently inserted into the plasmid p8R322, resulting in theclone pSSV II. This clone was obtained from S. Aaronson National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD . A subclone of pSSV II Figure 2 containing a portion of the v sis gene was constructed in the Six hundred ug of plasmid pSSV II Figure 2 was digested with restriction endonucleases Bam HI andPvu II in 200 microliters ul of 50 mM NaCl, 10 mM MgCl Plasmid pl92 Figure 3 comprises a portion of the gene for the yeast mating pheromone α factor MFαlgene cloned in the bacterial plasmid pUCl3 Vieira and Messing, ibid. and Messing, Fifteen ug of plasmid pl92 was digested in 30 ul of medium salt buffer with 20 units of Hind III overnightat 37 C. The reaction mixture was diluted to 60 ul with Klenow buffer and the four deoxyribonucleotidesadded to a final concentration of 50 uM each. Ten units of Klenow polymerase were added to the ice coldmixture and incubation allowed to proceed 12 minutes at 15 C. Following phenol CHCl Twenty ug of plasmid pVSIS Pst was digested with Bgl II and Xba I in 40 ul of medium salt buffer.Subsequent electrophoresis through 1 agarose, extraction of the DNA and EtOH precipitation provided thepurified v sis 756 bp 8gl II Xba fragment Figure 2 . Referring to Figure 2, equimolar amounts of the four DNA fragments described above, adjusted to 10ng of the 296 bp Hph I Bgl II v sis fragment, were mixed in 15 ul of ligase buffer 6 mM Tris pH 7.6, 6.6mMMgCl Homology between the v sis protein p28 Proteolytic processing of the Referring to Figure 4, approximately 40 ng of the gel purified 2.2 kb Xba I fragment of pVSα was ligatedwith 120 ng of Xba I digested, alkaline phosphatase treated Ml3mpll DNA Messing, To precisely remove codons 1 66 of v sis, oligonucleotide directed mutagenesis was performedessentially according to the two primer method of Zoller Zoller, et al., One half pmole of mIIVSα was annealed with 1 pmole of kinased ZC 130 and 1.5 pmoles of universalsequencing primer BRL using the conditions described Zoller et al., ibid. , except that the annealingmixture was first heated to 65 C for 10 minutes, shifted to 37 C for 10 minutes, and then quickly chilled onice. The annealed mixture was then treated with Klenow polymerase as described by Zoller et al. ibid. tocreate circular duplex DNA. Portions of the elongation mixture were used to transform Yeast replicating vector YEpl3 Broach et al., Plasmid p270 see Figure 5 contains the transcription terminator region of the yeast triose phosphateisomerase TPI gene. It was constructed in the following manner. The yeast TPI terminator fragment wasobtained from plasmid pFGI Alber and Kawasaki, ibid. . It encompasses the region from the penultimateamino acid codon of the TPI gene to the Eco RI site approximately 700 base pairs downstream. A Bam Hlsite was substituted for this unique Eco RI site of pFGI by first cutting the plasmid with Eco RI, thenblunting the ends with DNA polymerase I Klenow fragment , adding synthetic Bam HI linkers CGGATCCA , and re ligating to produce plasmid pl36. The TPI terminator was then excised from pl36 as aXba I Bam Hl fragment. This fragment was ligated into YEpl3 Broach et al., ibid. which had been linearizedwith Xba I and Bam Hl. The resulting plasmid is known as p213. The Hind III site was then removed fromthe TPI terminator region of p213 by digesting the plasmid with Hind III, blunting the resultant termini withDNA polymerase I Klenow fragment , and recircularizing the linear molecule using T Alternatively, p270 may be constructed by digesting plasmid pM220 see below with Xba I and BamHl, purifying the TPI terminator fragment Referring to Figure 6. plasmid p270 DNA was digested with Xba I and treated with calf alkalinephosphatase to prevent religation of the cohesive vector ends. V sis expression units VSα and VS2α wereprepared by Xba I digestion and agarose gel purification of pVSα and mllvs2α, respectively. Each of the isolated fragments was ligated with an approximately equimolar amount of phosphatased p270 vector in thepresence of 40 units of T In order to achieve maximal protein production from a yeast culture, it is desirable to use expressionvehicles which are very stably maintained in the host cell. Plasmid pCPOT is such a preferred expressionvehicle. The Referring to Figure 7, plasmid pM220 was digested with Bgl II and Bam HI, electrophoresed through a0.9 agarose gel, and the 2.2 kb TPI promoter, Approximately equimolar amounts of the three isolated fragments described above Figure 7 wereligated overnight at 12 C and the ligation mixture used to transform Because the product encoded by YEpVS2α is larger than authentic human PDGF B chain and becausea smaller product might result in higher expression levels in a transformed yeast host cell, a vector wasconstructed comprising the v sis sequence of YEpVS2α truncated at the 3 end. The polypeptide encodedby this sequence comprises amino acids 67 to 175 of p28 An expression vector containing this B chain sequence was constructed by combining elements ofthe pVS2α expression unit with a partial v sis gene and a synthetic double stranded DNA fragmentencoding amino acids 158 to 175 of p28 Plasmid YEpVS2α was digested with Pst I and Bam HI and the 1.8 kb fragment comprising the partial Ten ug of plasmid pVSα was digested with Xma I and Sph I to completion. The resulting ca. 4.9 kbvector fragment, which also comprises most of the v sis sequence, was purified by agarose gel electrophoresis,extraction of the DNA and EtOH precipitation. In order to supply a new 3 terminus for the v sis sequence, a double stranded DNA fragment wasconstructed from oligonucleotides synthesized on an Applied Biosystems Model 380 A DNA synthesizer.0.7 pmole of oligonucleotide ZC299 Table 1 was heated with an equimolar amount of oligonucleotideZC300 in a volume of 10 ul containing 40 mM NaCl for 5 minutes at 65 C. Approximately 8 ug of plasmid pTVS2αT was digested to completion with Xba I in a volume of 10 ul.The volume was increased to 40 ul with Bgl II buffer, and 6 units of Bgl II were added and the mixture wasincubated at 37 C. Ten ul aliquots were removed to a stop buffer containing 50 mM EDTA at 15 and 30minutes, and the remaining 20 ul stopped at 45 minutes. The resulting mixtures were separated byelectrophoresis through 0.7 agarose. The ca. 4.6 kb Bgl II Xba I vector fragment was cut out, extractedfrom the gel, and EtOH precipitated. Plasmid pVSαB was digested with Bgl II and Xba I, and the ca. 260 bpfragment containing the synthetic 3 terminus and stop codon was isolated by electrophoresis throughagarose, subsequent extraction from the gel, and EtOH precipitation. The 4.6 kb Bgl II Xba I vector fragment from pTVS2αT and the 260 bp Bgl II Xba I fragment fromρVSαB were ligated in the presence of T4 DNA ligase for 7 hours at room temperature. The reactionmixture was used to transform For expression of the v sis derivations in yeast, a stable expression vector comprising the REP1, REP2,REP3, and ori sequences from yeast 2 micron DNA and the The POT1 gene was obtained from the plasmid pFATPOT. The 2u sequences were obtained from the plasmids YEpl3 Broach et al., To construct the final expression vector pMPOT2, pICPOT was linearized by a partial Hind III digestionand complete Sst I digestion. Plasmid pUCREP2,3 was cut with Hind III and Sst I, and the fragmentcomprising REP2, REP3 and ori sequences was gel purified and joined to the linearized pICPOT. Theresultant plasmid, comprising REP2, REP3, ori, POT1 and amp Approximately 10 ug of plasmid pVSα was digested with Bst EII to completion in a volume of 20 ul.Five units of Pst I were added, the mixture was incubated 30 minutes and the reaction stopped by theaddition of EDTA. The quenched reaction mixture was immediately electrophoresed through a 1 agarosegel, and the ca. 800 bp partial Pst I Bst Ell band comprising most of the Plasmid pTVS2αT was digested to completion with Pst I and Bst Ell and purified by agarose gelelectrophoresis. The resulting ca. 4.8 kb vector fragment and the 800 bp Pst I Bst EII fragment were ligatedin the presence of T Plasmid pTVSα was digested to completion with Cla I and Bam Hl, and the ca. 2.9 kb fragmentcontaining VSα sequences was isolated by electrophoresis through agarose, extraction from the gel, andEtOH precipitation. The ca. 2.9 kb Cla I Bam HI VSα fragment was ligated with Cla I and Bam HI digestedpMPOT2 as described for pVS2αm below . A plasmid containing a 2.9 kb Cla I Bam Hl insert wasidentified and designated pVSαm. Plasmid pTVS2αT was digested to completion with Cla I and Bam HI in Bam HI buffer. The buffer wasadjusted to high salt Maniatis et al, ibid. and the DNA was digested to completion with Pvu I, which cutsthe vector sequences twice and permits resolution of the ca. 2.7 kb Cla I Bam Hl fragment containing theVS2α sequences on an agarose gel. This fragment was electrophoresed through 0.9 agarose, extracted,and EtOH precipitated. The fragment was then ligated with Cla I Bam HI digested pMPOT2 in the presenceof T4 DNA ligase for 20 hours at 13 C. The ligated DNA was used to transform Plasmid pVSB was digested with Cla I and Bam Hl, and the 2.2 kb fragment containing the B chain expression unit purified by agarose gel electrophoresis and EtOH precipitation. The fragments were ligatedovernight at room temperature in the presence of T4 DNA ligase and the reaction mixture used to transform Referring to Figure 8, presence of v sis related mRNA transcripts was confirmed by electrophoretic andsubsequent hybridization analysis of total RNA. Total RNA from the above described transformants in strainE8 11c was prepared by guanidinium thiocyanate extraction as described by Maniatis et al. ibid. with thefollowing modifications 100ml cultures were grown to a density of 1x10 Plasmids pVSαm, pVS2αm, pVSBm, and pMPOT2 were used to transform Transformants carrying YEpl3 and pCPOT derived v sis constructions were grown in the appropriatemedia at 30 C 1.2 liter cultures to stationary phase on a rotary air shaker with agitation at 220 rpm.Cultures were harvested, the cells removed by centrifugation, and the medium concentrated on a C 8Sepharose Pharmacia Fine Chemicals AB, Uppsala, Sweden column which binds molecules of a hydrophobicnature. Authentic human PDGF is a highly cationic and hydrophobic protein Heldin et al., Spent growth media from the transformed yeast cultures were adjusted to 5 EtOH and passedthrough an 8 ml C 8 Sepharose column at a flow rate of 2 3 ml per minute. The column was then washedwith 100mls of 5 EtOH in 20 mM ammonium bicarbonate NH Transformant pll7 2 in strain E11 3c grown under Media samples from the transformants pVSαm, pVS2αm, pVSBm and pMPOT2 were concentrated byadsorption to CM sephadex and elution with 1M NaCl in 1M acetic acid, pH 4.5. The concentrated mediawere dialyzed against 0.1 M acetic acid, pH 7 and the amount of PDGF like material in the concentrateswas determined by ELISA. The expression of PDGF like molecules by the yeast transformants was examined by ELISA andquantitated by comparison to a standard curve developed with purified human PDGF Raines and Ross,ibid. . A typical standard curve was prepared as follows Purified human PDGF, 2.5 ng ml in PBS, was incubated overnight with Immulon II Dynatech Laboratories,Inc. 96 well microtiter plates 100 ul well at 4 C. This coating solution was removed and 100 ul wellof 0.1 rabbit albumin in PBS was added and the plates incubated for 1 hour at 37 C. Samples of purifiedPDGF 0.1 40ng ml were separately incubated with goat anti PDGF IgG 5 ug ml in PBS containing 0.05 Tween 20 and 1 mg ml rabbit albumin RSA . The microtiter plates were washed 5 times with 0.9 NaCl,.05 Tween 20, drained, and 100 ul of each test solution was added to the microtiter wells and incubated 2hours at 37 C. The plates were washed as before, and peroxidase conjugated swine anti goat IgG Tago,Inc. diluted 1 1000 in PBS containing 0.05 Tween 20 and 1 mg ml RSA was added for 2 hours at 37 C.The plates were washed as before and freshly prepared .04 o phenylene diamine containing .012 hydrogen peroxide H Raw ELISA data for the MPOT constructions are not shown, but have been incorporated into theradioreceptor and mitogenesis assay data as shown in Figures 13 and 14. The radioreceptor assay for PDGF Bowen Pope and Ross, Results obtained by RRA for yeast C 8 eluates and 1X media samples are given in Table 2. In addition, PDGF receptor binding by CM sephadex media concentrates from yeast transformantscontaining plasmids pVSαm, pVS2αm, pVSBm, and pMPOT2 was compared to authentic PDGF. Theresults were interpreted by comparison to a standard curve generated with purified, unlabeled PDGF, asshown in Figure 13. Media from cultures transformed with the v sis constructions are shown to competewith The ability of PDGF to stimulate DNA synthesis and cell growth in culture was the basis for its definitionand discovery. Test samples in 10mM acetic acid 100 ul well are added to quiescent cultures of mouse 3T3 cells in2cm Table 2 presents results obtained in the mitogenesis assay for PDGF like material produced in yeastand compares the activities of the PDGF like material as measured by the above described assay methods.Figure 12 depicts the mitogenic response elicited by concentrated media from pll7 2 transformed E11 3cand pVSα transformed E8 11c compared to that obtained with purified human PDGF. In addition, the mitogenic response elicited by CM sephadex concentrates from yeast transformantscontaining plasmids pVSαm, pVS2αm, pVSBm, and pMPOT2 was compared to that obtained with authenticPDGF. Referring to Figure 14, media from cultures transformed with the v sis constructions stimulateduptake of The data present clear evidence that growth media from the yeast strains constructed herein possessbiological activities identical to authentic human PDGF. Further, these activities are readily detectable innonconcentrated 1X media from pll7 2 transformed strain E11 3c grown under The VSB preparation was further characterized by SDS polyacryamide gel electrophoresis and subsequentmitogenesis assay of gel fractionated material. Ninety percent of the VSB mitogenic activity isrecovered from the 30 kilodalton region of the gel Figure 15 . This indicates that this expression unitproduces a very homogeneous and likely fully processed material. In this sense, the VSB protein is superior to the VS2α and VSα proteins described above, which are quite heterogeneous. In addition, the VSBmaterial is a positive chemoattractant, indicating that it may possess the full spectrum of PDGF biologicalactivities. From the foregoing, it will be appreciated that, although specific embodiments of the invention havebeen described herein for purposes of illustration, various modifications may be made without deviatingfrom the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly, the invention is not limited except as by theappended claims.