# UV DETECTOR AND METHOD FOR FABRICATING IT

## Claims
Festkörper UV Detektor mit

## Description
This invention is directed to solid state UV detectors and to a process for fabricating them. It is known to have photocathodes and photomultiplier tubes PMT s which sense ultraviolet UV radiation. The PMT s are costly, large size and fragile, and they require high voltage. In addition the long wavelength cut off of these detectors is not adjustable and they respond to wavelengths longer than 30nm. Filters can be used to reject wavelengths longer than 30nm but this adds mass and cost. In the prior art certain UV detectors of Al It is an object of the invention to provide an improved method of growing an AlGaN sensor for ultraviolet radiation which solves the problem of detecting UV radiation against a hot refractory background or solar radiation. This detector responds only to the UV and not to radiation of other wavelength emanating from the hot furnace interior. These and other objects are achieved by the new solid state UV detector as described in claim 1 which preferably can be fabricated by the method as described in claim 7. Preferred embodiments of the detector and fabricating steps of the process are disclosed in the subclaims. This UV detector is based on interband absorptions of incoming radiation in an aluminium gallium nitride AlGaN material system. The detector does not require any additional filter as the intrinsic absorption cutoff in the semiconductor acts as a filter. The long wavelength cut off can be set between 220 and 360nm for flame sensing and other applications. The solid state AlGaN detector of this invention is an ideal replacement for the PMT s having low mass, reliability, low cost and has a sharp cutoff wavelength for UV detection. The method includes a metal organic chemical vapor deposition MOCVD process for first growing a layer of AlN on the sapphire substrate and then the AlGaN layer upon which a photodetector structure is fabricated. The single drawing is a diagrammatic view of the UV detector made according to the method of the invention. A solid state Aluminum Gallium Nitride Al For the absorbed photons to be detected electrically, the electrons and holes produced must be separated before they recombine. This is conveniently accomplished by drift in an electric field such as that provided by a Schottky barrier or photoconductor approach. The Schottky barrier metal semiconductor junction results in a depletion region in the AlGaN semiconductor in which the photogenerated electrons and holes are separated by the built in electric filed which may be augmented if desired by an applied bias. In the forming of this function the doping of the semiconductor is important. If the AlGaN material is too heavily doped n type 10 Referring now to the figure there is shown a solid state solar blind UV detector 10 having a basal plane sapphire Al₂O₃ substrate 11. In preparing the device the substrate is loaded into a metalorganic chemical vapor deposition MOCVD reactor and heated such as by rf induction to 1000 C. Then NH₃ and CH₃ ₃Al trimethylaluminum or C₂H₅ ₃Al triethylaluminum are introduced into the growth chamber and epitaxial growth continues for about 10 minutes resulting in a single crystalline aluminum nitride AlN layer 12 about 0.5µm thick on the surface 13 of the substrate. The buffer layer 12 of AlN results in a higher electron mobility of the epitaxial Al A metal Schottky barrier 15 is fabricated on the AlGaN layer. For fabrication of the Schottky barrier 15 and the ohmic contact 16 onto the surface 17 of the Al Attached to the device 10 at Schottky barrier 15 and ohmic contact 16 is a series circuit including conductors 18 and 19, dc source such as battery 20 and a current meter 21 for measurement of the resulting photocurrent. In operation the Schottky barrier is kept under reverse bias e.g. 2 to 3V so that only a leakage current flows in the external circuit. When a photon UV light from the flame enters the depletion region under the Schottky barrier through the transparent Al While the apparatus has been shown and described as being negatively biased for operation, it can also be operated in a zero bias photovoltaic mode which makes it fail safe as no signal is possible except under UV illumination. The electron hole pairs and hence the signal current is only produced if the wavelength of incident light is less than or equal to g where g hc Eg where h is the Planck s constant, c the velocity of light and Eg is the bandgap of the semiconductor Al