# Intermediates for making 16 phenoxy and 16 substituted phenoxy prostatrienoic acid derivatives.

## Abstract
The compound of the Formula I

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A compound of the formulaEMI29.1 wherein R1 and R2 are hydrogen or an ether forming group and X is hydrogen, halo, trifluoromethyl, lower alkyl or lower alkoxy. 2. The compound of Claim 1 wherein X is hydrogen. 3. The compound of Claim 2 which is 1 alpha ,4 alpha dihydroxy 3ss 3 alpha hydroxy 4 phenoxy 1 E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn 2 one. 4. The compound of Claim 2 which is la t butyldimethylsilyloxy 4 tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 313 C3a Ctetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 phenoxy 1 E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl 1 but 3 yn 2 one. 5. The compound of Claim 2 which is 1 alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 phenoxy 1 E buten l yl cyclopent Za yl l but 3 yn 2 one. 6. A process of making a compound of the formula EMI30.1 comprising reacting a compound of the formula EMI30.2 with a reducing agent selected from the group of compounds capable of stereospecifically reducing carbonyl groups. 7. The process of claim 6 wherein the reducing agent is R Alpine Borane. 8. A process for preparing a compound of the formula EMI30.3 wherein R1 and Rê are hydrogen or an ether forming group which process comprises a reacting a compound of the formula EMI31.1 with a lithium acetylide or dichlorocerium acetylide reagent and optionally b protecting the l hydroxy group to obtain a compound of Formula I wherein R1 and R2 are ether forming groups, and further optionally c removing the protecting groups to obtain the compound of Formula I wherein R1 and R2 are all hydrogen. 9. The process of Claim 8 a wherein the compound ofFormula II is reacted with the lithium acetylide or dichlorocerium acetylide reagent in THF at a reduced temperature. 10. The process of Claim 8 b wherein the hydroxyl protecting group is t butyldimethylsilyl.

## Description
INTERMEDIATES FOR MAKING 16 PHENOXY AND 16 SUBSTITUTED PHENOXY PROSTATRIENOIC ACID DERIVATIVES The present invention relates to a novel intermediate useful for making 16 phenoxy and 16 substituted phenoxy prostatrienoic acid derivatives.More particularly, this invention relates to the compound of Formula IEMI1.1 wherein R1 and R2 are hydrogen or an ether forming radical and X is hydrogen, halo, trifluoromethyl, lower alkyl or lower alkoxy. The compounds of this invention are useful as intermediates in preparing the compounds represented by formulas II and III EMI2.1 wherein R is hydrogen, lower alkyl or a pharmaceutically acceptable, non toxic salt of a compound wherein R is hydrogen X is hydrogen, halo, trifluoromethyl, lower alkyl or lower alkoxy. These compounds are the subjects of U.S. PatentNos. 3,985,791 and 4,178,457. The compound of formula I may be converted to a specific propargylic alcohol isomer by means of stereospecific reagents. This propargylic alcohol may then be converted to the compounds of formula II or III by the synthetic scheme set out in EP 146,935 publishedJuly 3, 1985.Definitions For the purpose of this invention, the term lower alkyl or alkyl mean a straight or branched alkyl radical of 1 to 6 carbon atoms. Examples of such radicals are methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, t butyl, i butyl, sec butyl, pentyl, hexyl and the like. Lower alkoxy means an RO wherein R is lower alkyl. Halo refers to fluoro, chloro, bromo, and iodo. Aryl refers to phenyl, naphthyl, or the like. Aralkyl refers to a benzene, naphthyl or similar aromatic moiety having a lower alkyl chain whereih lower alkyl is defined above. Substituted aralkyl refers to a radical wherein the aromatic group is substituted with one or more lower alkyl, halo, or lower alkoxy radicals as these latter terms are defined above. The compounds of this invention possess asymmetric centers and thus can be produced as racemic mixtures or as individual R,S antimers. The individual antimers may be obtained by resolving a racemic mixture of a synthetic intermediate. Alternatively, the individual R or S antimer may be made by starting with an individual R or S isomer of the starting material. It is understood that the racemic mixture and the individual R,S antimers are encompassed within the scope of this invention. The numbering which will be used for these compounds herein is as follows EMI3.1 The synthesis of these compounds follows the following scheme REACTION SCHEME IEMI4.1 Formula I In the preceding schematics, R1 and R2 are ether forming groups and X is defined hereinabove. The starting material, formula .1, can be prepared according to the procedures set forth in U.S. PatentNos. 3,880,712 3,985,791 and 4,304,907, which procedures are incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof. Before opening the lactone ring of formula 1, the two hydroxyl groups are converted to ethers. While any ether forming reagent may be used, it is preferred to form ethers which are base stable, acid labile in nature. Such preferred groups may be any ether forming group which will not be hydrolyzed when treated with a strong aqueous base such as sodium or potassium hydroxide, but will be hydrolyzed by acid under mild conditions, conditions which will not result in degradation of the end product as exemplified by formulasII and III. Examples of such groups which are base stable, yet acid labile are tetrahydrofuranyl, tetrahydropyranyl, 2 ethoxyethyl, and the like. It is preferred to protect the position 4 and the butenylside chain hydroxyl group with tetrahydropyranyl, tetrahydrofuranyl, or 2 ethoxyethyl. Ether formation with any of these groups is generally carried out in an aprotic solvent such as a halogenated hydrocarbon with an acid catalyst such as camphorsulfonic acid, acidic cation exchange resin, preferably p toluenesulfonic acid using amounts and conditions well known in the art. Most preferably, the ether forming reagent will be dihydropyran in the amount of 2 5 equivalents preferably at least about 2.1 equivalents. The reaction is carried out in methylene chloride in the presence of p toluenesulphonic acid. The reaction is generally carried out at between about 20 5O0C, preferably at ambient temperature over a period of 15 minutes to 4 hours, preferably about 2 hours. The ketone of formula 3 is made using lithium acetylide, the reaction being carried out in a polar solvent under an inert atmosphere, preferably at reduced temperature 80 to 400C . The lithium acetylide is generated in situ by adding a lithium reagent such as n butyllithium to a cooled solution of acetylene gas in the appropriate solvent, preferably tetrahydrofuran.This mixture is allowed to react at reduced temperature, i.e., 80 to 400C, preferably about 78 C for 15 to 60 min. The lactone of formula 2 is then added to the solution containing the lithium acetylide the addition taking place at the reduced temperature 80 to 40 C . The cold bath is then removed and the reaction mixture allowed to warm to room temperature. The reaction usually is complete by the time the reaction mixture reaches room temperature. A saturated salt solution is then added, for example, ammonium chloride, with vigorous stirring. Water is then added to dissolve the precipitated salts after which the product is extracted into an appropriate organic solvent such as ethyl acetate, ether, methylene chloride and further purified by conventional means to give the compound of formula 3, the a,ss acetylenic ketone. The compound of formula 3 then may be converted either to the trihydroxy compound or treated with an ether forming group to protect the position l hydroxyl group. If the compound of formula 3 is to be protected so that further synthetic work can be done with the compound, the hydroxyl group may be converted to any ether. However, it is preferable to convert the position l hydroxyl group to a base labile, ether forming substituent. Such a group is best exemplified by SiR4R5R6 wherein R4, R5, and R6 are alkyl, phenyl, or arylalkyl, except that all three may not be methyl simultaneously. Particularly preferred silyl groups are t butyldimethylsilyl, triisopropylsilyl, triphenylsilyl, t butyldiphenylsilyl, and 2,4,6 tri t butylphenoxydi methylsilyl radicals. When a silylating agent is employed, standard conditions normally used for such a reagent will be used. For example, the reaction is generally carried out in a polar aprotic solvent preferably dimethylformamide with an excess of silylating agent, i.e., 2.2 to 4 equivalents, and an excess relative to the silylating agent of some nitrogen containing compound, such as imidazole, pyridine, a derivative of either, diisopropylethyl amine, or the like. For etherification of the compounds herein, the preferred nitrogen containing bases are sterically hindered ones such as 2,6 Lutidine, 2,4,6 Collidine, diethylpropylethylamine and dicyclohexylethylamine.About 2 equivalents of t butyldimethylsilylchloride are normally employed. The reaction is carried out in dry dimethylformamide. The reaction is carried out at about ambient temperature and is usually completed in 16 to 20 hours. The compounds of formula I wherein R1 and R2 are hydrogen are obtained by hydrolysis of the R and R2 ether forming groups. This may be carried out by acid or base depending upon the lability of those respective blocking groups. If the blocking groups are all acid labile, then an alkanoic acid of 1 6 carbon atoms or a hydrogen halide may be used to effect the hydrolysis.Where an R group is acid base labile, a dilute solution of a strong base, such as one of the alkaline metal hydroxide bases, i.e., lithium hydroxide, sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, or the like, may be used. When the hydrolyzing agent is an alkanoic acid, acetic acid is the preferred reagent. Acetic acid hydrolysis of ether forming groups, particularly tetrahydrofuranyl, tetrahydropyranyl, or a trialkylsilyl group, or the like, is well known in the art. For example, the standard hydrolysis procedures uses acetic acid and a polar solvent, such as tetrahydrofuran, or the like. The ether, glacial acetic acid, water and organic solvent are mixed in a flask under nitrogen and heated at low temperature, between about 20 600C, Dreferably 400C, for up to 16 hours, preferably 12 hours. Alternatively, hydrolysis of the acid labile ether groups may be effected by hydrogen halide, preferably an aqueous solution of the acid dispersed in a water immiscible solvent, preferably with a scavenging agent to react with the released blocking group.The reaction is effected at a temperature between about 40 to 400C over a period of about 5 minutes to 4 hours. This method comprises stirring an aqueous solution of hydrogen halide with a water immiscible solvent in which the intermediate has been dissolved. The hydrogen halide may be hydrogen fluoride, hydrogen chloride, hydrogen bromide, or hydrogen iodide. The acid should be present in a slight molar excess, for example, about at least 2 equivalents of acid, though the reaction can be effected using a large excess of acid, i.e., up to 10 equivalents or more. Preferably 2.05 to 3.0 equivalents will be used, most preferably about 2.5 equivalents. Any water immiscible organic solvent may be used, but it is preferred to use a halogenated hydrocarbon such as, for example, methylene chloride, dichloroethane, and the like.To trap the released blocking group, a reactive scavenging material is added to the reaction mixture.This scavenging material is preferably a mercaptan, for example, mercaptoethanol. The scavenging material should be present in an amount of 2.0 to 3.0 equivalents, preferably about 2.0 equivalents. The reaction is completed in about 30 60 minutes at a temperature between about 30 to 500C, preferably at about room temperature. When the ether is to be hydrolyzed by base, a dilute solution of a strong base such as one of the alkali metal hydroxide bases will be used. For the purpose of this work, a dilute solution is one which has a concentration of 0.05 to 2M, preferably about 0.5M. An appropriate solvent is, for example, 2 methoxyethanol or a similar polar solvent which is miscible with water. Preferably, an inert atmosphere is maintained. In terms of temperature and time, the reaction is affected by heating the solvent to reflux for up to about 72 hours. The method for the stereospecific production of the propargyl alcohol is schematically depicted in ReactionScheme II. REACTION SCHEME IIEMI9.1 tb SEP H tb SEP SEP SEP 2C12CeC CH SEP OH SEP t SEP v SEP C tb SEP 70 tb S SEP SEP tb SEP THP SEP 3 SEP l tb SEP 3 tb SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP SiCl tb si SEP o SEP H tb SEP t tb SEP 0 tb SEP 0 SEP H SEP Alpine tb SEP Borane tb SEP H OH tb SEP 0 tb SEP SEP O SEP t SEP OTHP SEP THP tb SEP OTHP tb OTHP SEP OTHP tb SEP 5 SEP 4 tb The lactone ring of 2 is simultaneously cleaved, and the acetylenic group added by reaction of the lactone with 1 to 3, preferably 2 molar excess of dichlorocerium acetylide. The dichlorocerium acetylide reagent is prepared by reacting CeC13 anhydrous with LiCECH inTHF at 750C.After 30 minutes the lactone solution, dissolved in, for example, THF, is added. The temperature should be kept in the range of between about 75 and 20 , and is preferably about 400. The mixture is added to aqueous NH4Cl. The organic layer is washed with NH4C1 and water. The mixture is dried, filtered and the solvent removed, allowing the isolation of the ethynyl ketone 3. The unprotected l hydroxy ketone 3 is protected with t butyldimethylchlorosilane by reacting it in the presence of a sterically hindered nitrogen containing base, such as lutidine. Any alcohol protecting group can be used but it is preferred that t butyldimethylsilyl be used as protecting group for this hydroxyl. This results in a molecule that has two different types of alcohol protecting groups, allowing each to be reacted differently. The ethynyl ketone 4 is then reduced. There are two types of reductions that can be done at this point, stereospecific or non stereospecific. The non stereospecific reduction is accomplished by standard hydride reducing agents, for example, lithium aluminum hydride, sodium borohydride and the like see H. O.House, Modern Synthetic Reactions, Benjamin, 1972,Chapter 2 . The stereospecific reduction is accomplished using an optically active reducing agent, for example, LiA1Hq 2S,3R 4 dimethylamino 1,2 diphenyl 3 methyl 2 butanol , sometimes referred to as LiAlH4 Darvon alcohol, or, alternatively, R Alpine Borane B isopinocampheyl 9 borabicycloE3.3.l nonane 0 The preferred reducing agent is R Alpine Borane see M. M. Midland et al, J. Am.Chem. Soc., 102, 867 1980 . The ketone and the AlpineBorane are mixed neat and stirred for several days. It is preferred to have an excess of the borane to speed the reaction. The preferred ratio is about 1 2 3, preferably 1 2.3. Once the proparagylic alcohol of Formula 5 has been obtained, whether by stereospecific reaction or not, the rest of the reaction sequence of Reaction Scheme on pages 12 13 of EP 146,935 can be carried out. The propargylic alcohol, Formula 5, is dissolved in the trialkyl orthoacetate, preferably under nitrogen, along with a catalytic amount of alkanoic acid, usually about a 1 volume relative to the orthoacetate. The orthoester reacts with the propargylic alcohol, Formula 5, to give a mixed trialkylorthoester which is not isolated but caused to rearrange in situ by heating the pot. The reaction flask is immersed in a preheated oil bath, for example one at about 150 2500C, and stirred for a short period, about 30 minutes while maintaining the pot temperature between about 100 1300C, preferably between about 110 1200C. During the heating period, a mixture of orthoacetate and alkanoic acid, in the same ratio noted above, is added to the system while concurrently distilling out of the reaction system an equivalent volume of trialkyl orthoester alkanol acid. The reaction bath is preferably maintained at a temperature between about 170 1750C during the distillation process. To further illustrate and exemplify the practice of this invention, the following non limiting examples are provided. EXAMPLE 1 1 alpha Hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 phenoxy 1 E buten 1 yl cyclopent 2a yl acetic acid lactone A 1 liter round bottom flask equipped with a magnetic stirring bar and Drierite drying tube was charged with 16.5 g of las4a dihydroxy 3ss 3s hydroxy 4 phenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl acetic acid lactone, 500 ml of methylene chloride, 8.8 ml of dihydropyran and a few crystals of p toluenesulfonic acid H20. This mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. Two drops of triethylamine were added and the solution stirred for 2 minutes. The reaction mixture was washed with 1 X 50 ml of saturated aqueous sodium chloride and dried over sodium sulfate.Evaporation of the solvent gave a residue which was taken up in a minimum amount of ethyl acetate and charged onto a 7.5 cm diameter column filled with 500 g of silica gel packed in hexane. The column was then eluted with a gradient of 20 to 40 ethyl acetate in hexane.Appropriate fractions were combined and stripped to dryness to afford the title compound. Proceeding in a similar manner, but substituting for the starting compound in the preceding paragraph the appropriately substituted phenoxy lactone, the following compounds may be prepared 1 alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 36 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 m trifluoromethyl phenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl acetic acid lactone la hydroxy 4a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 m fluorophenoxy 1 E buten 1 yl cyclopent 2 alpha yl acetic acid lactone la hydroxy 4a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 o fluorophenoxy 1 E buten 1 yl cyclopent 2 alpha yl acetic acid lactone 1 alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 p fluorophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl acetic acid lactone la hydroxy 4a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 p chlorophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl acetic acid lactone 1 alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 o chlorophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl acetic acid lactone la hydroxy 4a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 m chlorophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl acetic acid lactone 1 alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 m bromophenoxy 1 E buten 1 yl cyclopent 2 alpha yl acetic acid lactone 1 alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 o bromophenoxy 1 E buten 1 yl cyclopent 2 alpha yl acetic acid lactone 1 alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 p bromophenoxy 1 E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl acetic acid lactone 1 a hydroxy 4a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 m methylphenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl acetic acid lactone 1 alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 o methylphenoxy 1 E buten 1 yl cyclopent 2 alpha yl acetic acid lactone 1 a hydroxy 4a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 p methylphenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl acetic acid lactone 1 alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 m methoxyphenoxy 1 E buten 1 yl cyclopent 2 alpha yl acetic acid lactone 1 alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 o methoxyphenoxy 1 E buten 1 yl cyclopent 2 alpha yl acetic acid lactone and la hydroxy 4a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3o tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 p methoxyphenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl acetic acid lactone. EXAMPLE 2 1 alpha Hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 phenoxy 1 E buten 1 yl cyclopent 2 alpha yl 1 but 3 yn 2 one A 100 ml 2 neck round bottom flask equipped with magnetic stirrer and septum caps with a nitrogen vacuum inlet was charged with 7 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran. The flask and solvent was cooled to 78 C with a dry ice isopropanol bath, and vacuum purged with nitrogen five times. Over 3 minutes there was injected from a gas tight syringe below the surface of the cold tetrahydrofuran 84 ml of purified acetylene gas. This acetylene gas had been purified by passage through a dry ice cooled trap, 3 concentrated sulfuric acid bubblers and a Drieritee tower. Over 9 minutes there was then added dropwise 1.56 ml of 2.05 molar n butyllithium hexane.This mixture was stirred for 14 minutes at 780C. The protected lactone 1.25 g from the preceding example was dissolved in 5 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran and added to the lithium acetylide solution over 5 minutes. The addition flask was washed with 1 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran. After 10 minutes at about 780C, the cold bath was removed and the reaction apparatus allowed to warm to room temperature. The solution changed from colorless to bright orange over about 22 minutes during this warming process. Ten ml of saturated aqueous ammonium chloride was then added and the solution stirred vigorously for 10 minutes. Enough water was then added to dissolve the precipitated salts, followed by 15 ml of diethyl ether. The aqueous layer was extracted 1 X 10 ml of ether.The combined organic layers were washed with 2 X 10 ml of water, 1 X 10 ml brine and the organic layer dried over magnesium sulfate. This dried organic extract was filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give the titled compound as a crude product. The crude product was further purified by percolation through 13 g of silica gel packed in 40S ether hexane. The product was eluted with 500 ml of the same solvent followed by 200 ml of 50 ether hexane while collecting 20 ml fractions. Fractions 6 20 were combined and concentrated in vacuo to give a colorless, very viscous oil which has the following NMR spectral data EMI15.1 H4 3.20 bs 1H H13, H14 5.4 5.8 bm C2H H15 4.5 m 1H H16 3.95 m C2H Phenoxy 7.26 m C2H 6.69 m 3H OTHP 4.6 5.0 m C2H 3.5m, 3.85 m 4H Proceeding in a similar manner, but substituting for the starting compound in the preceding paragraph the appropriately substituted phenoxylactone, the following compounds may be prepared Cla hydroxy 4a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 m trifluoromethyl phenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl 1 but 3 yn 2 one l alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3 ss C 3 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 C m fluorophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl 1 but 3 yn 2 one l alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 o fluorophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl 1 but 3 yn 2 one l alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 p fluorophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl 1 but 3 yn 2 one l alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 p chlorophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl 1 but 3 yn 2 one l alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 o chlorophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl 1 but 3 yn 2 one l alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3 13 C 3 cx tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 Cm chlorophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl 1 but 3 yn 2 one la hydroxy 4a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 m bromophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl 1 but 3 yn 2 one l alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 o bromophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl 1 but 3 yn 2 one l alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 p bromophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl 1 but 3 yn 2 one l alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 m methylphenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl 1 but 3 yn 2 one l alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 o methylphenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl 1 but 3 yn 2 one l alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 p methylphenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl 1 but 3 yn 2 one l alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 m methoxyphenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl 1 but 3 yn 2 one l alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 o methoxyphenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl 1 but 3 yn 2 one and l alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 p methoxyphenoxy 1 CE buten l yI cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn 2 one. EXAMPLE 3 la t butyldimethylsilyloxy 4a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3 3 a C tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 phenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn 2 one In a 2 ml glass vial equipped with magnetic stirrer and septum cap was dissolved 93 milligrams of the a,ss acetylenic ketone in 1 ml of dry dimethylformamide. To this was added 86 mg of t butyldimethylchlorosilane with stirring until the reactants were was dissolved. There was then added 82 microliters of neat 2,6 Lutidine. This solution was stirred overnight at room temperature. Water 1 ml was then added and the solution stirred vigorously for 10 minutes. The stirred solution was then transferred to a separatory funnel, the reaction flask being washed with water and ether. The aqueous layer was extracted 2 X 1 ml of ether.The combined organic layers were extracted with 1 X 2 ml of water, 1 X 2 ml 1M C1, 1 X 2 ml of water, 1 X 2 ml of saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate, 1 X 2 ml of water, 1 X 2 ml brine and dried over sodium sulfate powder. The dried diethyl ether solution was filtered and concentrated under vacuum to give the title compound as an orange oil. The oil was further purified by percolating it through 1.2 g of silica gel packed in 5 ethyl acetate hexane. The product was eluted with 20 ml of 5 ethyl acetate hexane followed by 30 ml of 10 ethyl acetate hexane while collecting 4 ml fractions.Fractions 4 13 were collected, combined and concentrated in vacuo to give the pure product as a colorless oil which has the following NMR spectral data EMI18.1 H4 3.13 t 1H H9 4.22 m 1H H13, H14 5.45 5.80 m 2H H15 4.45 m 1H H16 3.97 m C2H Si 0.88 s 9H SiMe 0.02 s, 0.04 s, 0.04 s 6H Phenoxy 7.26 m C2H 6.90 m 3H OTHP 4.6 5.0 m C2H 3.48, 3.85 m 4H Proceeding in a similar manner, but substituting for the starting compound in the preceding paragraph the appropriately substituted phenoxylactone, the following compounds may be prepared la t butyidimethylsiloxy 4a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 m trifluoromethyl phenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent2a yl l but 3 yn 2 one 1 alpha t butyldimethylsiloxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran2 yloxy 313 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 m fluorophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn 2 one 1 alpha t butyldimethylsiloxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran2 ylOxy 3ss 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 o fluoro phenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn 2 one 1 alpha t butyldimethylsiloxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran2 yloxy 313 C3Ctetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 Cp fluoro phenoxy 1 E buten 1 y1 cyclopent 2 alpha y1 l but 3 yn 2 one la t butyldimethylsiloxy 4a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 p chloro phenoxy 1 E buten 1 y1 cyclopent 2 alpha y1 l but 3 yn 2 one la t butyidimethylsiloxy 4a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 313 C 3a C tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 C o chloro phenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn 2 one la t butyidimethylsiloxy 4a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 m chlorophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn 2 one 1 alpha t butyldimethylsiloxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 m bromophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn 2 one 1 alpha t butyldimethylsiloxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 313 C3a Ctetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 o bromophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn 2 one la t butyidimethylsiloxy 4a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 313 C3a Ctetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 p bromophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn 2 one la t butyidimethylsiloxy 4a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 m methylphenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn 2 one la t butyidimethylsiloxy 4a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 o methylphenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn 2 one la t butyidimethylsiloxy 4a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 p methylphenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn 2 one la t butyidimethylsiloxy 4a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 m methoxyphenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn 2 one la t butyldimethylsiloxy 4a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 o methOxyphenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn 2 one and la t butyldimethylsiloxy 4a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 p methoxyphenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn 2 one. EXAMPLE 4 1 alpha ,4 alpha dihydroxy 3ss 3 alpha hydroxy 4 phenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2 a yl 1 but 3 yn 2 one A 3 milligram aliquot of the a,8 acetylenic ketone of Example 2 was dissolved in a solution of glacial acetic acid 10 ml , water 6 ml and tetrahydrofuran 1.7 ml . This reaction mixture was stirred for 12 hours at 400C under nitrogen. Solvents were removed under reduced pressure. The resulting residue was subjected to azeotropic distillation with toluene 3 X 10 ml . Further purification was effected on a silica gel column made up in hexane, the product being eluted with 75 ethyl acetate in hexane.Appropriate fractions were combined and evaporated to dryness under reduced pressure to give the title compound. Proceeding in a similar manner, the ketones prepared in Example 4 are converted to their corresponding trihydroxy analogs. 1 alpha ,4 alpha didyroxy 3ss 3 alpha dihydroxy 4 m trifluoromethylphenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2 s yl l but 3 yn 2 one 1 alpha ,4 alpha didyroxy 3ss 3 alpha dihydroxy 4 m fluorophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn 2 one la,4ar dihydroxy 3 3a dihydroxy 4 o fluorophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn 2 one 1 alpha ,4 alpha didyroxy 3ss 3 alpha dihydroxy 4 p fluorophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2cSyl l but 3 yn 2 one 1 alpha ,4 alpha didyroxy 3ss 3 alpha dihydroxy 4 p chlorophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn 2 one 1 alpha ,4 alpha didyroxy 3ss 3 alpha dihydroxy 4C o chlorophenoxy lCE buten l yl cyclopent 2a y l but 3 yn 2 one la,4a dihydroxy 3a 3 dihydroxy 4 m chlorophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2Nyl l but 3 yn 2 one 1 alpha ,4 alpha didyroxy 3ss 3 alpha dihydroxy 4Cm bromophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn 2 one 1 alpha ,4 alpha didyroxy 3ss 3 alpha dihydroxy 4 o bromophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn 2 one 1 alpha ,4 alpha didyroxy 3ss 3 alpha dihydroxy 4 p bromophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2Nyl l but 3 yn 2 one 1 alpha ,4 alpha didyroxy 3ss 3 alpha dihydroxy 4 m methylphenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn 2 one 1 alpha ,4 alpha didyroxy 3ss 3 alpha dihydroxy 4 o methylphenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn 2 one 1 alpha ,4 alpha didyroxy 3ss 3 alpha dihydroxy 4 p methylphenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn 2 one 1 alpha ,4 alpha didyroxy 3ss 3 alpha dihydroxy 4 m methoxyphenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn 2 one 1 alpha ,4 alpha didyroxy 3ss 3 alpha dihydroxy 4 o methOxyphenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn 2 one and 1 alpha ,4 alpha didyroxy 3ss 3 alpha dihydroxy 4 p methoxyphenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn 2 one. EXAMPLE 5 1 alpha hydroxy 44 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3 alpha tetrahydropyran 2yloxy 4 phenoxy 1 E buten 1 y1 cyclopent 2 alpha y1 1 but 3 yn 2 one 34.37 g of CeC13.7H20 was dried at 140 for two hours in vacuo and then cooled. When cooled, the dryCeCl3 was brought to atmospheric pressure with nitrogen. The CeC13 was stirred in Flask A in 300 ml dry THF. The temperature of Flask A was lowered to 750C in a dry ice isopropanol bath. In another flask Flask B 2160 ml of purified acetylene was added to 200 ml of dry THF at 750C in 250 ml shots. 52.9 ml of 1.6 M n butyllithium was then added dropwise. The resulting LiCECH solution was transferred rapidly to flask A by flexible needle cannulation. 20.0 g of la hydroxy 4 a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 5ss 3 o tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 phenoxy 1 E buten 1 y1 cyclopent 2 alpha y1 acetic acid lactone in 90 ml of dry THF was then added to flask A. The temperature of flask A was then raised to 400C. After 2.5 hours the solution in flask A was worked up. The solution of flask A was added to a 1.5 1 stirred solution of aqueous NH4C1. The organic layer was separated, washed, and filtered through 459 of Celite.After drying and removal of solvent the title compound was isolated. Chromatographic purification using silica gel eluting first with 5 acetone in hexane followed by 10 acetone in hexane gave the product as a colorless pure and it has the same NMR spectral data as the product of Example 2. Proceeding in a similar manner, but substituting for the starting compound in the preceding paragraph the appropriately substituted phenoxylactone, the following compounds may be prepared 1 alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3S 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 m trifluoromethyl phenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl 1 but 3 yn 2 one 1 alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 m fluorophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2c yl 1 but 3 yn 2 one 1 alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 o fluorophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl 1 but 3 yn 2 one 1 alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3eS tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 p fluorophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl 1 but 3 yn 2 one 1 alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 p chlorophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl 1 but 3 yn 2 one 1 alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 o chlorophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl 1 but 3 yn 2 one 1 alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 m chlorophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl 1 but 3 yn 2 one 1 alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 m bromophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl 1 but 3 yn 2 one 1 alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 o bromophenoxy 1 E buten 1 y1 cyclopent 2 alpha y1 1 but 3 yn 2 one Cla hydroxy 4a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 p bromophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl 1 but 3 yn 2 one la hydroxy 4a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 m methylphenoxy 1 E buten 1 y1 cyclopent 2 alpha y1 1 but 3 yn 2 one 1 alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 o methylphenoxy 1 E buten 1 y1 cyclopent 2 alpha y1 1 but 3 yn 2 one 1 alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 33 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 p methylphenoxy 1 E buten 1 y1 cyclopent 2 alpha y1 1 but 3 yn 2 one 1 alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3 O tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 m methoxyphenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl 1 but 3 yn 2 one 1 alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss Da tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 o methoxyphenoxy 1 E buten 1 y1 cyclopent 2 alpha y1 1 but 3 yn 2 one and 1 alpha hydroxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 p methoxyphenoxy 1 E buten 1 y1 cyclopent 2 alpha y1 1 but 3 yn 2 one. EXAMPLE 6 1 alpha t butyldimethylsiloxy 4 alpha tetrahydre pyran 2 yloxy 3 B la tetrahydropyran 2yloxy 4 phenoxy 1 E buten 1 y1 cyclopent l but 3 yn R 2 ol 162.3 ml of 0.5 M R Alpine Borane was added to 19.89 g of la t butyldimethylsiloxy 4 a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3 alpha tetrahydropyran 2yl oxy 4 phenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn 2 one, the solvent removed under vacuum, and the two reactants stirred together at room temperature, under nitrogen, for five days. The reaction mixture was then diluted with 20 ml of ethyl ether, cooled with an ice bath, and 6.3 ml of freshly distilled acetaldehyde added. The reaction mixture was then allowed to warm to room temperature over 30 minutes. The volatiles were 30moved at 400C.The mixture was then cooled, 105 ml of ethyl ether added, 5.37 ml of ethanolamine added dropwise and the resulting precipitate stirred for 1 hour. The mixture was filtered through a C sintered glass filter and the filter cake washed with 50 ml ice cold ethyl ether portions. The yellow filtrate was concentrated, dried and the solvent removed yielding the title compound. Chromatographic purification was on silica gel, eluting with a gradient of 5 to 20 ethyl acetate in hexanes giving a pure colorless oil which has the following 13C NMR spectral data EMI26.1 1. NA 11. 77.03 2. NA 12. 55.64 3.NA 13. 130.70 4. 73.36 14. 134.92 5. 84.27 15. 70.92 6. 60.69 16. 71.64 7. 34.20 17. 158.54 8. 45.55 18. 114.70 9. 71.89 19. 129.56 10. 42.01 20. 121.20 Proceeding in a similar manner, but substituting for the starting compound in the preceding paragraph the appropriately substituted phenoxylactone, the following compounds may be prepared 1 alpha t butyldimethylsiloxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran2 yloxy 313 C3a Ctetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 m trifluoromethyl phenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl 1 but 3 yn R 2 ol 1 alpha t butyldimethylsiloxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 m fluorophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2eL yl l but 3 yn R 2 ol 1 alpha t butyldimethylsiloxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran2 yloxy 313 3 a C tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 Co fluorophenoxy 1 E buten 1 y1 cyclopent 2 alpha y1 l but 3 yn R 2 ol la t butyldimethylsiloxy 4a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3 B 3 cr tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 p fluorophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn R 2 ol 1 alpha t butyldimethylsiloxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran2 yloxy 3ss 3 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 p chlorophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn R 2 ol 1 alpha t butyldimethylsiloxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran2 yloxy 313 C3a Ctetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 Co chloroph enoxyl 1 E buten 1 y1 cyclopent 2 alpha y1 l but 3 yn R 2 ol 1 alpha t butyldimethylsiloxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran2 yloxy 3ss 3 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 m chlorophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn R 2 ol 1 alpha t butyldimethylsiloxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran2 yloxy 3ss 3 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 m bromophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn R 2 ol 1 alpha t butyldimethylsiloxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran2 yloxy 3ss 3 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 o bromophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2ct yl l but 3 yn R 2 ol la t butyldimethyisiloxy 4a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 p bromophenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn CR 2 ol 1 alpha t butyldimethylsiloxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran2 yloxy 313 C 3 a C tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 m methylphenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn R 2 ol la t butyldimethylsiloxy 4a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 o methylphenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn R 2 ol 1 alpha t butyldimethylsiloxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran2 yloxy 3ss 3 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 p methylphenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl i but 3 yn CR 2 ol la t butyidimethylsiloxy 4a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 m methOxyphenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn R 2 ol la t butyidimethylsiloxy 4a tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 o methoxyphenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn R 2 ol and 1 alpha t butyldimethylsiloxy 4 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 3ss 3 alpha tetrahydropyran 2 yloxy 4 p methoxyphenoxy l E buten l yl cyclopent 2a yl l but 3 yn R 2 ol.