# An improved metal core for use in plastics moulding.

## Abstract
A casting 10 of readily fusible metal to be used as a melt out core for a moulding of plastics material contains a remov able insert 11 for example of steel.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A melt out core 10 of readily fusible metal, for use in plastics moulding, which has been cast around a removable insert 11 . 2. A core according to claim 1, wherein the insert is made of steel.

## Description
An improved metal core for use in plastics moulding. It is known to mould articles of plastics material around a melt out core of readily fusible metal, which is subsequently removed from the moulded article by melting. This procedure is especially useful in the manufacture of components for the automobile industry mode of plastics material. The fusible metal used is an alloy having a solidus temperature in the range of 35 to 3000C A major factor in selecting the alloy to be used for the core is the thermal and pressure regime encountered during the plastics moulding operation.This moulding operation can be pressure injection moulding of thermoplastics, pressure injection moulding or thermosetting plastics or compression moulding. Each of these processes imposes pressure upon the core material during the moulding cycle, as well as a temperature that is determined by the type of plastics material used. It is desirable that the metal core should have the lowest possible melting temperature so that subsequent removal by melting can be carried out quickly and efficiently. Accordingly it is the practice to use metals whose solidus temperature is up to 1000C above the plastics injection temperature. At these temperatures a significant proportion of the mechanical properties of the alloy is lost. Under the pressures encountered in, and necessary for the plastics injection sequence, distortion, twisting and movement can occur which deleteriously affect the position of the cavity produced by the core within the plastics component. As has been mentioned before, removal of the metal core is achieved by melting, the melting operation typically being carried out using an oil as a heat transfer fluid. To facilitate melt out it is advantageous to provide a maximum surface area for heat transfer and to minimise the total mass of metal to be melted. The invention provides such a melt out core, which has been cast around at least one removable insert, for example of steel. The core may be transferred after casting with the insert or inserts in place to a plastics moulding machine. Alternatively, the insert or inserts may be removed after casting of the core and the resulting shell of readily fusible metal fitted over correspondingly shaped location pins, or a single such pin, in the moulding machine. Such pins serve to locate the core with respect to the die cavity and to provide internal mechanical strength to the core material to resist distortion and movement under the pressures and temperatures experienced during moulding. Upon completion of the plastics moulding sequence, the inserts or location pins are withdrawn. At the subsequent core melt out stage the resulting cavities in the core provide an increased surface area for heat transfer to take place, thus facilitating and speeding the melt out operation, as well as affording the aforementioned benefit of reducing the mass of the core, thus providing additional benefits in terms of metal handling, power consumption in metal melting and lowering the amount of metal in the circuit. The inserts or pins may be parallel or tapered they may be of circular, oval or other cross section they need not be of consistent dimensions along their length they may be solid or hollow and they may have a complex shape to provide specific strengths or cooling rates. An embodiment of melt out core according to the invention is illustrated in the accompanying diagrammatic drawing. A melt out core 10, made of an alloy of 56 tin, 3 antimony, the rest lead in proportions by weight, and intended for an automobile water pump moulded from plastics material is shown in the drawing.It contains an insert 11 of steel having a diameter of 1 cm. The external diameter of the portion 12 of the core which accommodates the insert is 2f cm.The total length of the core is 15 cm and the diameter of the portion 13 is 7.5 cm. The portion 12 has a through going hole 14.