# Process for producing 2,3 disubstituted 4 substituted cyclopentanones, enantiomorphs, or mixtures thereof.

## Abstract
A process for producing a 2,3 disubstituted 4 substituted cyclopentanone, an enantiomorph thereof, or a mixture of these in an arbitrary ratio, which process comprises A sub jecting a 4 substituted 2 cyclopentenone, an enantiomorph thereof, or a mixture of these in an arbitrary ratio, and an organocopper compound to conjugate addition reaction, and thereafter B reacting the resulting enolate intermediate with a halide in the presence of an organotin compound.

## Claims
What is claimed is 1. A process for producing a 2,3 disubstituted 4substituted cyclopentanone represented by the formulaEMI44.1 R2 represents a tri Cl C7 hydrocarbon silyl group or R2O represents an acetal linkage, RB repre sents a substituted or unsubstituted C2 C10 alkyl or alkenyl group, Z represents an ethylene, ethynylene, trans vinylene, cis vinylene, phenylene or phenyleneoxa group, and RA repre sents a hydrogen atom or a substituted or un substituted C1 C7 alkyl or alkenyl group, an enantiomorph thereof, or a mixture of these in an arbitrary ratio, which comprises A subjecting a 4 substituted 2 cyclopentenone represented by.the following formulaEMI44.2 wherein R2 is as defined above, an enantiomorph thereof, or a mixture of these in an arbitrary ratio, and an organocopper compound formed from an organolithium compound represented by the following formula RBLi 2 wherein RB is as defined above, and a copper compound represented by the following formula Cu Q 3 wherein Q represents a halogen atom, a cyano group, a phenylthio group or a l pentynyl group, to conjugate addition reaction, and thereafter, B reacting the resulting enolate intermediate with a halide represented by the following formula X CH2 Z RA ..... 5 wherein Z and RA are as defined above, and X represents a halogen atom or a tosyl group, in the presence of an organotin compound represented by the following formula R3SnY 4 wherein R s are identical or different and each represents a C1 C4 alkyl group, a C3 C7 cyclo alkyl group, a phenyl group or a halogen atom provided that two or three R s cannot be halogen atoms at the same time, and Y represents a halogen atom or a trifrate group. 2. The process of claim 1 wherein in the organolithium compound represented by formula 2 , N is a substituted or unsubstituted C2 C10 alkenyl group, and the substituent on the alkenyl group is a C1 C4 alkyl group, aC3 C7 cycloalkyl group, a C2 C4 alkynyl group, a phenyl group, a phenoxy group, a C1 C4 alkoxy group, or theORê in which Rê is as defined above, provided that the phenyl and phenoxy groups may further be substitued by fluoro, methyl, trifluoromethyl or trifluoromethoxy. 3. The process of claim 1 wherein in the organolithium compound represented by formula 2 , RB is a substituted or unsubstituted C2 C10 alkyl group, and the substituent on the alkyl group is a C3 C7 cycloalkyl group, a vinyl group, a C2 C4 alkynyl group, a phenyl group, a phenoxy group, a C C alkoxy group or the group OR in which R2 is as defined above, provided that the phenyl and phenoxy groups may further be substituted by fluoro, methyl, trifluoromethyl or trifluoromethoxy. 4. The process of claim 1 wherein the organolithium compound of formula 2 is represented by the following formulaEMI46.1 wherein R is a tri C1 C7 hydrocarbon silyl group or R represents an acetal linkage. 5. The process of claim 1 wherein in the organotin compound represented by formula 4 , R s are identical or different and each represents a butyl, cyclohexyl or phenyl group. 6. The process of claim 1 wherein the halide represented by formula 5 is represented by the following formula X CH2 CH2 n COOR 5 1 wherein X is as defined above in formula 5 , R1 represents a Cl Cl0 alkyl group, a substituted or unsubstituted phenyl group, a substituted or unsubstituted C3 C7 cycloalkyl group or a sub stituted or unsubstituted phenyl C1 C2 alkyl group, and n is an integer of 1 to 9. 7. The process of claim 1 wherein the halide of formula 5 is represented by the following formula X CH2 Z R A ... 5 2 wherein X is as defined above, and Z represents an ethynylene, trans vinylene, cis vinylene, phenylene or phenyleneoxa group, and R A represents a C1 C7 alkenyl group whose position remotest from the group Z is substituted by the substituent COOR1 in which R1 is as defined. 8. The process of claim 1 wherein the halide of formula 5 is an iodide. 9. The process of claim 1 wherein the conjugate addition reaction in step A is carried out in the presence of a trivalent organophosphorus compound. 10. The process of claim 1 wherein the enolate intermediate formed by the conjugate addition reaction in step A is reacted with the halide 5 in the presence of the organotin compound 4 in step B in an aprotic polar solvent.

## Description
PROCESS FOR PRODUCING 2, 3 DISUBSTITUTED 4 SUBSTITUTED CYCLOPENTANO1ES, ENANTIOMORPHS, OR MIRES THEREOF This invention relates to a process for producing 2,3 disubstituted 4 substituted cyclopentanones, enantiomorphs, or mixtures thereof. Natural prostaglandins prostaglandin will be abbreviated hereinafter as PG are known as local hormones autacoid having high biological and pharmacological activities. In an attempt to develop new medicines by skillfully utilizing these physiological charactreristics of PGs, not only natural PGs but various derivatives thereof have been studied. Natural PGE2 and PGF2 as typical compounds ofPGE and PGFs have the activity of contracting the smooth muscles of the uterus, and are used as most useful labor inducing agents. Natural PGE1, on the other hand, is a type L prostaglandin and has unique biological activities such as platelet aggregation inhibiting activity and blood pressure lowering activity. In recent years, natural PGE1 has been used as an agent for treating peripheral vascular diseases in the cardiovascular therapeutic field. A number of methods have heretofore been known for obtaining these PGEs and PGFs see J. B. Bindra et al. Prostaglandin Synthesis, Academic Press 1977 . Typical examples of such methods are listed below. i Biosynthesis from arachidonic acid or dihomo gamma linolenic acid see B. Samuelson et al. Angev.Chem. Int. Ed. ENgl. 4, 410 1965 1. ii Synthesis via the Corey lactone which is an important key intermediate see E. J. Corey et al. J.Amer. Chem. Soc., 92, 397 1970 . iii Synthesis through a 2 substituted 2 cyclopentenone which is also an important intermediate see C. J. Sih et al., J. Amer. Chem. Soc., 97, 865 1975 . iv Selective reduction of 5,6 dehydro PGE2 or PGF2a see E. S. Ferdinandi et al., Can. J. Chem., 49, 1070 1971 and C. H. Lin et al., Prostaglandin, 11, 377 1976 . According to the biosynthetic method i , the starting poly unsaturated fatty acid is difficult to procure. Moreover, the yield of the desired product from this starting material is very low, and it is difficult to isolate it in pure form from the by products. In the chemical synthetic methods ii to iv , many steps are required for obtaining the starting materials. Even when the starting materials are easily available, the production of prostaglandins from them requires many steps, and the total yields of the prostaglandins are still very low.Hence, these methods are still desired to be improved. In an attempt to overcome the various difficulties of these methods, a three component coupling process for the synthesis of a PG skeleton was proposed which involves conjugate addition to a 2 cyclopentenone compound followed by a step of trapping the enolate see G. Stock et al., J. Amer. Chem. Soc., 97, 6260 1975 , and K. G. Untch et al., J. Org. Chem. 44, 3755 . This process, however, has the difficulty that it has to go through many steps in which formaldehyde, a low molecular compound, is used to trap the enolate and the PG skeleton is synthesized chemically through the resulting important intermediate, and that the total yield of the desired product is low. On the other hand, the following methods have been proposed for more efficient production of the PG skeleton by the three component coupling process. 1 Japanese Laid Open Patent Publications Nos.96542 1975 and 101337 1975, G. H. Posner eet al., Tetrahedron Letters, 2591 1974 , and G. H. Posner et al., J.Amer. Chem. Soc., 97, 107 1974 . These documents disclose a method for producing 2,3 disubstituted cyclopentanones by conjugate addition of an organocopper compound to 2 cyclopentenone and subsequent alkylation of the reaction product with halides. These document, however, fail to give a working example covering the production of prostaglandins and only describe a work ing example carried out in a model system. None of them disclose an example of producing 2,3 disubstituted 4substituted cyclopentanones from 4 substituted 2 cyclopentenones. 2 J. W. Patterson, Jr. and J. H. Fried., J.Org. Chem., 39, 2506 1974 . The authors successfully synthesized ll deoxyprostaglandin Ei by applying the method 1 to 2 cyclopentenones. However, they do not disclose even the possibility of producing 2,3 disubstituted 4 substitutedcyclopentanones from 4 substituted 2 cyclopentenones. 3 G. Stork and M. Isobe, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 97, 6260 L975 . The authors succeeded in conjugate addition of an organocopper compound to a 4 substituted 2 cyclopentenone and trapping the resulting enolate by monomeric formaldehyde. But they gave a negative conclusion about the alkylation reaction of trapping the enolate with an alkylating agent. 4 J. A. Noguez and L. A. Maldonado, SyntheticCommunications, 6, 39 1976 . According to the method disclosed in this document, a lithium salt of cyanohydrin whose part corresponding to the omega chain of prostaglandin is protected is introduced into 2 cyclopentenone by conjugate addition, and the resulting enolate is captured by a propargyl halide to obtain a ll deoxyprostaglandin derivative. However, it does not even disclose the possibilty of producing 2,3disubstituted 4 substituted cyclopentanones from 4 substituted 2 cyclopentenones. 5 R. Davis and K. G. Untch, J. Org. Chem., 44, 3755 1979 . The authors stated that various investigations were made in an attempt to add an organocopper compound having an organic group corresponding to the omega chain of prostaglandin to a 4 substituted 2 cyclopentenenone by conjugate addition, and to alkylate the resulting enolate directly with an allyl halide, but all of the attempts were unsuccessful. 6 A. J. Dixon and R. J. K. Taylor, J. Chem.Soc., Parkin I, 1407 1981 . The authors challenged the allylation of an enolate formed from 2 cyclopentenone and an organocopper compound which had been considered to be difficult of proceeding, and succeeded in obtaining an intermediate for the synthesis of ll deoxyprostaglandin. They, however, failed to disclose anything about a specific example, or even the possibility, of a process for producing 2,3disubstituted 4 substituted cyclopentanones from 4 substituted 2 cyclopentenones. 7 Nishiyama et al., Tetrahedron Letters, 25, 223 1984 and 25, 2487 1984 . The authors succeeded in introducing trimethylsilyllithium or methyllithiotrimethylsilyl acetate into 2 cyclopentenone by conjugate addition, adding tributyltin chloride, and thereafter alkylating the enolate with a propargyl bromide derivative. But they failed to disclose a specific example, or even the possibility, of a process for producing 2,3 disubstituted 4 substituted cyclopentanones from 4 substituted 2 cyclopentenones. For the prior art techniques 1 to 7 and the other prior techniques, reference may be made to a general synthesis entitled Prostaglandin Sytheses by ThreeComponent Coupling by Ryoji Noyori et al. in AngewandteChemie, International Edition in English, 23, No. 11,November 1984, pages 847 876. It is an object of this invention to provide a novel process for producing 2,3 disubstituted 4 substituted cyclopentanones, enantiomorphs thereof, or mixtures thereof. Another object of this invention is to provide a process for efficiently producing 2,3 disubstituted 4 substituted cyclopentanones such as PGEs, enantiomorphs thereof, or mixtures thereof. Still another object of this invention is to provide a process for producing a 2,3 disubstituted 4 substituted cyclopentanone easily in high yields in one step or a single pot on the basis of the present inventors discovery that the 2,3 disubstituted 4 substituted cyclopentanone, which cannot be produced via a lithium enolate or copper enolate in the prior art, can now be produced via a tin enolate. A further object of this invention is to provide a novel process for producing 2,3 disubstituted 4 substituted cyclopentanones in one step or a single pot on the basis of the present inventors discovery that when the 4 substituted 2 cyclopentenone and an organocopper compound are subjected to conjugate addition reaction and the resulting copper enolate is converted to a tin enolate in situ, the tin enolate can be directly reacted with an alkyl halide or an alkenyl halide. Other objects and advantages of this invention will become apparent from the following description. According to this invention, the above objects and advantages of this invention are achieved by a process for producing a 2,3 disub stitued 4 substituted cyclopentanone represented by the following formulaEMI5.1 Rê represent a tri C1 C7 hydrocarbon silyl group or RêO represent an acetal linkage, RB represents a substituted or unsubstituted C2 C10 alkyl or alkenyl group, Z represents an ethylene, ethynylene, trans vinylene, cis vinylene, phenyl ene or phenyleneoxa group, and RA represents a hydrogen atom or a substituted or unsubstituted C1 C7 alkyl or alkenyl group, an enantiomorph thereof, or a mixture of these in an arbitrary ratio, which comprises A subjecting a 4 substituted 2 cyclopentenone represented by the following formulaEMI6.1 wherein R2 is as defined above, an enantiomorph thereof, or a mixture of these in an arbitrary ratio, and an organocopper compound formed from an organolithium compound represented by the following formula RB Li 2 wherein RB is as defined above, and a copper compound represented by the following formula Cu Q ..... 3 wherein Q represents a halogen atom, a cyano group, a phenylthio group or a l pentynyl group, to conjugate addition reaction, and thereafter, B reacting the resulting enolate intermediate with a halide represented by the following formula X CH2 Z RA 5 wherein Z and RA are as defined above, and X represents a halogen atom or a tosyl group, in the presence of an organotin compound represented by the following formula R3SnY 4 wherein R s are identical or different and each represents a C1 C4 alkyl group, a C3 C7 cyclo alkyl group, a phenyl group or a halogen atom provided that two or three R s cannot be halogen atoms at the same time, and Y represents a halogen atom or a trifrate group. The process of this invention comprises a conjugate addition reaction step A of reacting the 4 substituted 2 cyclopentenone 1 , or an enantiomorph thereof, or a mixture of these, with the organocopper compound formed from the organolithium compound 2 and the copper compound 3 , and the step B of reacting the enolate intermediate formed in step A with the halide 5 in the presence of the organotin compound 4 . The 4 substituted 2 cyclopentenone used as a starting material in this invention is represented by formula 1 . R2 in formula 1 represents a tri C1 C7 hydrocarbon silyl group or a group forming an acetal linkage oR2 together with the oxygen atom of the hydroxyl group. Examples of the tri Cl C7 hydrocarbon silyl group include tri C1 C4 alkylsilyl groups such as trimethylsilyl, triethylsilyl, triisopropylsilyl and t butyldimethylsilyl groups, and diphenyl C1 C4 alkylsilyl groups such as diphenylmethylsilyl and t butyldiphenylsilyl groups, and phenyl di C1 C4 alkylsilyl groups such as phenyldimethylsilyl group and tribenzylsilyl group. Among these, the t butyldimethylsilyl group is especially preferred. Examples of the group which forms an acetal linkage together with the oxygen atom of the hydroxyl group include methoxymethyl, l ethoxyethyl, 2 methoxy 2 propyl, 2 ethoxy 2 propyl, 2 methoxyethoxy methyl, benzyloxymethyl, 2 tetrahydropyranyl, 2 tetrahydrofuranyl, and 6,6 dimethyl 3 oxa 2 oxobicyclo 3.l.0 hex 4 yl groups. Of these, the 2 tetrahydropyranyl, 2 tetrahydrofuranyl, l ethoxyethyl, 2 methoxy 2 propyl, 2 methoxyethoxy methyl and 6,6 di methyl 3 oxa 2 oxobicyclo 3.l.0 hex 4 yl groups are preferred. Specific examples of the compound of formula 1 will be apparent from the definition of R2 and its specific examples given above. The enantiomorph of the compound of formula 1 is represented by the following formula 1 EMI8.1 wherein R2 is as defined above. The 4 substituted cyclopentenone used as the starting material in step A is a compound of formula 1 or 1 , or a mixture of the compounds 1 and 1 in arbitrary ratios. An equimolar mixture of the compounds of formula 1 and 1 is a racemic mixture, and a mixture of these in different proportions shows varying degrees of specific rotation according to their mixing ratios. RB in formula 2 representing the organolithium compound represents a substituted or unsubstituted C2 C10 alkyl or alkenyl group. The unsubstituted C2 C10 alkyl group may be linear or branched, and includes, for example, ethyl, propyl, butyl, isobutyl, sec butyl, t butyl, pentyl, hexyl, heptyl, octyl, nonyl and decyl groups. The unsubstituted C2 C10 alkenyl group may be linear or branched, and includes, for example, vinyl, l propenyl, l butenyl, l pentenyl, l hexenyl, l heptenyl, l octenyl, l nonyl and l decyl group. They may be isomers of either E or Z type. Examples of the substituent on the substituted C2 C10 alkyl group for RB are C3 C7 cycloalkyl groups, a vinyl group, C2 C4 alkynyl groups, a phenyl group and a phenoxy group the phenyl and phenoxy groups may further be substituted by fluoro, methyl, trifluoromethyl or trifluoromethoxy , C c alkoxy groups, and groups of the formula ORê whre Rê is as defined above. Examples of the substituent on the substitutedC2 C10 alkenyl group for Rb include C1 C4 alkyl groups, C3 C7 cycloalkyl groups, C2 C4 alkynyl groups, a phenyl group and a phenoxy groups the phenyl and phenoxy groups may further be substituted by fluoro, methyl, trifluoromethyl or trifluoromethoxy , C c alkoxy groups and groups of the formula OR2 where R2 is as defined above. Specific examples of the substituents include alkyl groups having 1 to 4 carbon atoms such as methyl, ethyl, propyl and butyl groups cycloalkyl groups having 3 to 7 carbon atoms such as cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl groups a vinyl group alkynyl groups having 2 to 4 carbon atoms such as ethynyl, propargyl, l butynyl and l propynyl groups phenyl, fluorophenyl, tolyl, trifluoromethylphenyl, trifluoromethoxyphenyl, phenoxy, fluorophenoxy, methylphenoxy, trifluoromethylphenoxy and trifluoromethoxyphenoxy groups and alkoxy groups having 1 to 4 carbon atoms such as methoxy, ethoxy, propoxy and butoxy. Specific examples of ORê as the substituent will be apparent from the examples given above for formula 1 . Specific examples of the organolithium compound 2 having such a substituted or unsubstituted alkyl or alkenyl group having 2 to 10 carbon atoms will be apparent from the specific examples of RB given above. Compounds represented by the following formulaEMI9.1 wherein R3 represents a tri Cl C7 hydrocarbon silyl group or OR3 represents an acetal linkage, are especially preferred. The sole reason for the preference of the organolithium compounds of formula 2 A is that they partly agree with the skeleton of natural prostaglandin. Q in formula 3 representing the copper compound represents a halogen atom such as chlorine, bromine or iodine atom, a cyano group, a phenylthio group or a 1pentenyl group. Examples of the copper compound will be apparent from the definitions of Q above. In the conjugate addition reaction step A of the present invention, the organocopper compound formed from the organolithium compound 2 and the copper compound 3 is used. The organocopper compound from the orgaolithium compound 2 and the copper compound 3 can be obtained by the methods described, for example, in G. H. Posner,Organic Reaction, vol. 19, 1 1972 and Noyori et al.,Tetrahedron Letters, 21, 1247 1980 , 23, 4057 1982 , 23, 5563 1982 , 24, 1187 1983 , 24, 4103 1983 , 25, 1383 1984 , and Isr. J. Chem., 24, 118 1984 . The descriptions of these literature references may be cited as part of the disclosure of the present specification. For example, the organocopper compound may be prepared by reacting the organolithium compound and a copper salt in an inert solvent, for example a hydrocarbon such as benzene, hexane or heptane or an ether such as diethyl ether or dimethoxyethane at room temperature to 78 C for not more then several hours, for examples for 0.5 hour at 780C. Preferably, the conjugate addition reaction in step A is caused to proceed smoothly by using a trivalent organophosphorus compound, for example a trialkylphosphine such as triethylphosphine or tributylphosphine , a trialkyl phosphite such as trimethyl phosphite, triethyl phosphite, triisopropyl phosphite or tri n butyl phosphite , hexamethylphosphoric triamide or triphenyl phosphine. Tributylphosphine, and hexamethylphosphoric triamide can be preferably used. The step A of the process of this invention is carried out advantageously by reacting the 4 substituted2 cyclopentenone represented by formula 1 with the organocopper compound in the presence of the trivalent organophosphorus compound and an aprotic inert organic medium. The 4 substituted 2 cyclopentenone and the organocopper compound stoichiometrically react in equimolar proportions. Usually, 0.5 to 2.0 moles, preferaby 0.8 to 1.5 moles, especially preferably 1.0 to 1.3 moles, of the organocopper compound is used per mole of the 4 substituted 2 cyclopentenone. The reaction in step A is carried out at a temperature of, for example, 100 to 20 C, preferably 78 C to 0 C. The reaction time varies depending upon the reaction temperature. Usually, the reaction proceeds sufficiently if it is carried out at 78 to 20 0c for about 1 hour. Advantageously, the reaction is carried out in the presence of an organic medium. Suitable organic media are inert and aprotic and do not react with the reagents. Examples of the aprotic inert organic media include saturated hydrocarbons such as pentane, hexane, heptane and cyclohexane aromatic hydrocarbons such as benzene, toluene and xylene ethers such as diethyl ether, tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, dimethoxyethane and diethylene glycol dimethyl ether, and aprotic polar solvents such as hexamethylphosphoric triamide HMP , N,N dimethylformamide DMF , N,N dimethylacetamide DMAC , dimethyl sulfoxide, sulfolane and N methylpyrrolidone. These media may be used as a mixture of two or more. The inert medium used to produce the organocopper compound may be directly used as the aprotic inert organic medium. In this case, the 4substituted 2 cyclopentenone is added to the reaction system in which the organocopper compound has been produced, and then the reaction is carried out.The amount of the organic medium may be that which is sufficient to allow the reaction to proceed smoothly. Usually, it is 1 to 100 times, preferably 2 to 20 times, the weight of the 4 substituted 2 cyclopentenone. The trivalent organic phosphorus compound may be caused to be present during the preparation of the organocopper compound, and the 4 substituted 2 cyclopentenone may be added to this reaction system and then reacted. Consequently, in step A of the process of this invention, a conjugate added enolate in which the organic group moiety RB adds to the 3 position of the 4 substituted 2 cyclopentenone is formed. In step B of the process of this invention, the resulting enolate is reacted with the halide of formula 5 in the presence of the organotin compound of formula 4 . In formula 4 representing the organotin compound, the three R s are identical or different and each represents an alkyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, a cycloalkyl group having 3 to 7 carbon atoms, a phenyl group, or a halogen atom. The two or three R s are not simultaneously halogen atoms. According to the definition of R, examples of the organotin compound include tri C1 C4 alkyltin chlorides such as trimethyltin chloride, trimethyltin bromide, triethyltin bromide, tripropyltin chloride, tributyltin chloride and tributyltin bromide tri Cl C4 alkyltin bromides dialkyltin dihalides such as diemthyltin dichloride, diethyltin dichloride and dibutyltin dichloride tributyltin trifrate tri C3 C7 cycloalkyltin halides such as tricyclohexyltin chloride, tricyclohexyltin bromide, tricyclopentyltin bromide and tricyclopentyltin chloride triphenyltin chlolride di C3 C7 cycloalkyltin dihalides such as dicyclohexyltin dichloride and dicyclopentyltin dichloride diphenyltin dihalides such as diphenyltin dichloride and diphenyltin bromide and triphenyltin trifrate and tricycloyhexyltin trifrate. Preferred compounds of formula 4 are those in which the three R s are identical or different and each represents a butyl, cyclohexyl or phenyl group, and tributyltin chloride, triphenyltin chloride, and tricyclohexyltin chloride are especially preferred. The halide used in step B is represented by formula 5 . XCH2ZRA 5 In formula 5 , X represents a halogen atom or a tosyl group, Z represents an ethylene group, an ethynylene group, a trans vinylene group, a cis vinylene group, a phenylene groupEMI13.1 or a phenyleneoxa groupEMI13.2 and RA represents a hydrogen atom or a substituted or unsubstituted C1 C7 alkyl or alkenyl group. The substituted or unsubstituted C1 C7 alkyl or alkenyl group for RA in formula 5 may be linear or branched, and includes, for example, methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, sec butyl, t butyl, pentyl, hexyl and heptyl groups. The unsubstituted C1 C7 alkenyl group for RA may be linear or branched, or a group bonded to the carbon atom of the group Z forming a direct double bond, such as CH2, or an alkenyl group bonded to the carbon atom of the groupZ through a single bond. Examples of the unsubstituted C1 C7 alkenyl group include vinyl, l propenyl, l butenyl, l pentenyl, 1hexenyl, l heptenyl, 2 propenyl, 2 butenyl, 2 pentenyl, 2 hexenyl, 2 heptenyl, 3 butenyl, 3 pentenyl, 3 hexenyl, and 3 heptenyl groups. They may be of an E or Z type isomeric form. Examples of the substituent on the substitutedC1 C7 alkyl group include cycloalkyl groups having 3 to 7 carbon atoms, a vinyl group, alkynyl groups having 2 to 4 carbon atoms, a phenyl group and a phenoxy group the phenyl and phenoxy groups may further be substituted by fluoro, methyl, trifluoromethyl or trifluoromethoxy , alkoxy groups having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, groups of the formula OR2 in which R2 is as defined above, acyloxy groups having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, an oxo group, and alkoxycarbonyl groups having 1 to 4 carbon atoms in the alkyl moiety. Examples of the substituent on the substitutedC1 C7 alkenyl group include alkyl groups having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl groups having 3 to 7 carbon atoms, alkynyl groups having 2 to 4 carbon atoms, a phenyl group and a phenoxy group the phenyl and phenoxy groups may further be substituted by fluoro, methyl, trifluoromethyl or trifluoromethoxy , alkoxy groups having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, groups of the formula oR2 in which R2 is as defined above, acyloxy groups having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, an oxo group, and alkoxycarbonyl groups having 1 to 4 carbon atoms in the alkyl moiety. Examples of the above substituents include alkyl groups having 1 to 4 carbon atoms such as methyl, ethyl, propyl and butyl groups cycloalkyl groups having 3 to 7 carbon atoms such as cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl groups, a vinyl group alkynyl groups having 2 to 4 carbon atoms such as ethynyl, propargyl, l butynyl and l propynyl groups phenyl, fluorophenyl, tolyl, trifluoromethylphenyl, trifluoromethoxyphenyl, phenoxy, fluorophenoxy, methylphenoxy, trifluoromethylphenoxy and trifluormethoxyphenoxy groups alkoxy groups having 1 to 4 carbon atoms such as methoxy, ethoxy, propoxy and butoxy groups acyloxy groups having 1 to 4 carbon atoms such as acetoxy and propionyloxy groups, an oxo group and lower alkoxycarbonyl groups such as methoxycarbonyl, ethoxycarbonyl and t butoxycarbonyl groups.Specific examples of OR2 as the substituent will be apparent from the examples given hereinabove with respect to formula 1 . Preferred examples of the halide of formula 5 are compounds represented by the following formula X CH2 CH2 n COOR 5 1 wherein X is as defined in formula 5 , R1 re presents a C1 C10 alkyl group, a substituted or unsubstituted phenyl group, a substituted or unsubstituted C3 C7 cycloalkyl group, or substi tuted or unsubstituted phenyl C1 C2 alkyl group, n is an integer of 1 to 9, and compounds represented by the following formula X CH2 Z R A 5 2 wherein X is as defined in the above formula, Z represents an ethynylene, trans vinylene, cis vinylene, phenylene or phenyleneoxa group, and A represents a C1 C7 alkenyl group whose posi tion remotest from the group Z is substituted by a substituent COORÚ in which RÚ is as defined above. In formulae 5 1 and 5 2, X is a halogen atom, and R1 is a C1 C10 alkyl group, a substituted or unsubstituted pheny group, a substituted or unsubstituted C3 C7 cycloalkyl group or a substituted or unsubstituted phenyl C1 C2 alkyl group. The C1 C10 alkyl group may be linear or branched, and includes, for example, methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, sec butyl, t butyl, pentyl, hexyl, heptyl, octyl, nonyl and decyl groups. Examples of preferred substituents for the substituted or unsubstituted phenyl group include halogen atoms, a protected hydroxyl group, acyloxy groups having 2 to 7 carbon atoms, C1 C4 alkyl groups optionally substituted by halogen atoms, C1 C4 alkoxy groups optionally substituted by halogen atoms, a nitrile group and C1 C6 alkoxycarbonyl groups. The halogen atoms are, for example, fluorine, chlorine and bromine, the first two being particularly preferred. Examples of the C2 C7 acyloxy groups are acetoxy, propionyloxy, butyryloxy, isobutyryloxy, valeryloxy, isovaleryloxy, caproyloxy, enanthyloxy and benzoyloxy groups. Examples of the C1 C4 alkyl groups optionally substituted by halogen atoms preferably include methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, butyl, chloromethyl, dichloromethyl and trifluoromethyl groups. Examples of the C1 C4 alkoxy groups optionally substituted preferably include methoxy, ethoxy, propoxy, butoxy, chloromethoxy, dichloromethoxy and trifluoromethoxy groups. Examples of the Cl C6 alkoxy carbonyl groups are methoxycarbonyl, ethoxycarbonyl, tbutoxycarbonyl and hexyloxycarbonyl groups. The substituted phenyl group may have 1 to 3 substituents exemplified above, preferably one such substituent. The substituted or unsubstituted C3 C7 cycloalkyl groups are, for example, unsubstituted saturated or unsaturated C3 C7, preferably C5 C6, especially preferablyC6, cycloalkyl groups optionally substituted by the aforesaid substituents, and examples include cyclopropyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cyclohexenyl and cycloheptyl groups. Examples of the substituted or unsubstituted phenyl C1 C2 alkyl groups are benzyl, alpha phenethyl and beta phenethyl groups in which the phenyl group is unsubstituted or substituted by the aforesaid substituents. In formula 5 1, n is an integer of 1 to 9. In formula 5 2, Z is an ethynylene group CC , a trans vinylene group CH CH , a cis vinylene group FH CH, r a phenylene groupEMI16.1 or a phenyleneoxa groupEMI16.2 In formula 5 2, R A is a A C1 C7 alkenyl group whose position remotest from the group Z is substituted by a substituent COORÚ wherein RÚ is as a substituent COOR1 wherein R1 is as defined hereinabove. When the C1 C7 alkenyl group is, for example, l propenyl C C CH2 and Z is an ethynylene group, Z R A is CH CH CH CH CH2 COOR In step B of the process of this invention, the conjugate added enolate formed in step A and being present in the reaction system is reacted with the halide of formula 5 , 5 1 or 5 2. The reaction is carried out by first adding the organotin compound to the reaction system in which the organocopper compound has been introduced into the 4 substituted 2 cyclopentenone by conjugate addition reaction, and thereafter adding the halide of formula 5 which maybe diluted with the aforesaid aprotic organic medium. It is believed that stoichiometrically, the organotin compound and the enolate reacted in equimolar proportions to form a tin enolate freshly. Usually, the organotin compound is used in an amount of 0.8 to 1.5 moles, especially 1.0 to 1.2 moles, per mole of the 4substituted 2 cyclopentenone initially used. The reaction temperature is 100 to 0 C, preferably 78 to 200C. It is sufficient that the reaction time is usually within 1 hour. Stoichiometrically, the halide of formula 5 reacts with the enolate formed by conjugate additionreaction in equimolar proportions. Usually, the halide is used in an amount of 0.8 to 5.0 moles, particularly 1.0 to 2.0 moles, per mole of the 4 substituted 2 cyclopentenone initially used. The reaction temperature is 100 to 0 C, preferably 78 to 20 0C. The reaction time varies depending upon the type of the halide used and the reaction temperature.Usually the reaction is terminated by carrying it out for about 1 hour to 50 hours at a temperature of 780 to 30 0C. The end point of the reaction may be efficiently determined by monitoring it by, for example, thin layer chromatography. Preferably, the alkylation reaction in step B with the halide of formula 5 in the process of this invention is carried out in the aforesaid aprotic polar solvent, especially in the presence of hexamethylphosphoric triamide, and this frequently gives good results.After the reaction, the final desired product is isolated and purified by oridinary means such as post treatment, extraction, washing, chromatography, distillation, or combinations of these. Thus, according to this invention, there can be produced a 2,3 disubstituted 4 substituted cyclopentanone represented by the following formulaEMI18.1 wherein RA, RB, R2 and Z are as defined above, an enantioimorph thereof represented by the following formulaEMI18.2 wherein RA, RB, R2 and Z are as defined above, or a mixture of the compounds of formulae 6 and 6 in arbitrary ratios. Among the compounds represented by formula 6 , those represented by the following formula EMI19.1 wherein R1, R2, R3 and Z are as defined above, are preferred. Compounds of formula 6 1 wherein z is a cisvinylene group have a PGE2 skeleton those in which Z is an ethynylene group have a 5,6 dehydro PGE2 skeleton and those in which Z is an ethylene group have a PGE1 skeleton.The present invention should be fully evaluated as a process which can give such useful compounds. To demonstrate the utility of the compounds produced by the process of this invention, the following flow chart is given which shows the conversion of a 5,6dehydro PGE2 derivative as a starting material into PGE2,E1, F2a, F1ar D2, D1 and I2 respectively. EMI20.1 tb SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP OR1 SEP OOR1 tb SEP SEP 20 SEP SEP O SEP O tb SEP ox SEP X SEP o SEP o tb SEP Reduction SEP 2 SEP Ir tb SEP OR SEP SEP OR SEP tb SEP 6R3 SEP 01 SEP U tb SEP Q P SEP O SEP Q CL SEP U tb SEP CI SEP CII SEP C tb SEP O SEP I r SEP Pe SEP ol I SEP o tb url SEP o SEP Ll SEP PGE2 SEP Reduction tb SEP P, SEP CI SEP al SEP a tb SEP arcr SEP cccr tb SEP es SEP H SEP s SEP Y tb SEP W SEP W1 SEP C SEP E tb SEP Reduction SEP 2 SEP tb SEP F SEP nl SEP V SEP cl tb SEP N SEP U SEP C SEP Oj SEP CI SEP rl SEP O SEP E SEP Oi SEP C tb SEP OR SEP P SEP C3 SEP tb SEP 6R3 SEP PGF2a tb SEP O SEP ol SEP O SEP 0 SEP J SEP I tb SEP ri SEP I SEP ri SEP O SEP rr SEP U SEP ml tb SEP a SEP a SEP cv SEP oi tb SEP Dep SEP protection tb SEP as SEP QJ SEP a SEP o SEP I SEP a SEP o SEP I tb SEP O SEP ol SEP F4 SEP tb SEP LI SEP I SEP QrW tb SEP Pe SEP P1 SEP ol SEP a SEP o, tb SEP n SEP Reduction SEP 2 SEP of SEP 9POSitiOn SEP of SEP 11 SEP position tb SEP OR SEP 3 SEP OR SEP 3 tb SEP OR SEP OR tb SEP PGD2 SEP o SEP Deprotection tb SEP o SEP Reduction SEP PGF1a tb SEP Dep SEP rotection tb SEP 9H SEP COOR1 tb SEP Deprotection SEP Deprotection tb SEP Deprotection SEP jap SEP SEP 3 tb SEP , SEP OR SEP bR3 SEP PGD1 SEP , SEP Ox tb SEP 3 tb SEP o SEP SEP o tb SEP U SEP SEP o tb SEP s SEP Q tb SEP X SEP SEP X tb SEP SEP o SEP SEP SEP P SEP e SEP commat tb SEP lil SEP tO SEP Si SEP 1 SEP 111 SEP SEP l SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP N SEP fi tb SEP 111 SEP ç SEP 0 SEP 111 SEP ,µ SEP O tb SEP , SEP RD SEP C SEP w SEP j SEP r SEP 1 SEP 11 tb SEP SEP X SEP SEP U SEP a SEP N tb SEP OV SEP SEP 0 SEP H tb SEP UZ tb The following Referential Examples 1 to 5 specifically show some of the above conversion reactions. The other conversions reactions were already been reported by some of the present inventors. One characteristic of the process of this invention is that all the reactions used proceed stereospecifically. Hence, a compound having the steric configuration represented by formula 6 is obtained from a starting material having the steric configuration represented by formula 1 , and the enantiomorph of formula 6 is obtained from the enantiomorph of formula 1 . Accordingly, from a mixture of these compounds in an arbitrary ratio, a mixture reflecting the mixing ratio is obtained as a final product. Furthermore, since the organolithium compound of formula 2 A contains an asymmetric carbon, it includes two optical isomers, but any of these optically active isomers or a mixture of them in an arbitrary ratio can be used.Among these, compounds having the steric configuration represented by formula 6 1 are especially useful stereoisomers because they have the same steric confugration as natural prostaglandins. The following examples illustrate the present invention more specifically. It should be understood however that the invention is not limited to these specific examples. EXAMPLE 1 Synthesis of 2R, 3R,4R 3 butyl 4 t butyl dimethylsilyloxy 2 2 octynyl cyclopentanone EMI21.1 TBDM is an abbreviation for t butyldimethyl. i Cuprous iodide 99.1 mg 0.52 mmole was weighed into a 30 ml reaction tube purged with argon, and the inside of the tube was dried under reduced pressure. Then, the reaction tube was again purged with argon. Dry tetrahydrofuran 2 ml and tributylphosphine 0.337 ml 1.35 mmole were introduced into the reaction tube, and stirred at 20 C with stirring to form a uniform solution. The solution was cooled to 780C, and n butyllithium 1.60 M, 0.325 ml, 0.52 mmole was added, and the mixture was stirred at 780C for 10 minutes. Then, a solution of R 4t butyldimethylsiloxy 2 cyclopentenone 100 mg, 0.471 mmole in tetrahydrofuran 2 ml was added dropwise at 780C over 10 minutes. The mixture was stirred at 78 0C for 10 minutes.Then, hexamethylphosphoric triamide 1 ml was added, and the mixture was stirred for 40 minutes at 78 0C. Tributyltin chloride 0.14 ml, 0.520 mmole was added, and the temperature was raised to 40 C. A solution of l iodo 2 octyne 184 mg, 0.78 mmole in tetrahydrofuran 1 ml was added, and the mixture was stirred for 2 hours.Ether 5 ml was added to the reaction mixture, and the mixture was successively washed with a saturated aqueous solution of ammonium chloride 5 ml , a saturated aqueous potassium thiocyanate solution 5 ml and a saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 5 ml . The separated organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The dried product was filtered and concentratred under reduced pressure. The resulting crude product was separated by silica gel column chromatography Merck 7734, 6 water, 20 g hexane ethyl acetate 30 l to give 2R,3R,4R 3 butyl4 t butyldimethylsiloxy 2 2 octynyl cyclopentanone 88.1 mg, 0.233 mmole, 49 . TLC Rf 0.39 hexane ethyl acetate 10 1 IR liquid film 1750, 1450, 1247, 1098, 834 and 771 cm 1. NMR CDC13 6 0.05 and 0.09 each s, 6, SiCH3 x 2 , 0.89 s, 15, SiC CH3 3, CH3 x 2 , 1.1 1.7 m, 12, CH2 x 6 , 1.8 2.4 m, 5, CH2C C x 2, CH x 1 , 2.4 2.8 m, 3, CH2CO x 2, CHCO , 4.05 dd, 1, J 13.0 and 6.4Hz, CHOSi . C NMR CDCl3 6 4.9, 4.5, 13.9 for 2 , 18.6, 19.1, 22.1, 22.9, 25.7 for 4 , 28.7, 29.0, 31.0, 31.7, 47.7, 48.6, 52.5, 73.3, 77.0, 81.9, 215.4. MS 74 eV m e 378 M , 321 M C4H9 . ii Cuprous iodide 198 mg 1.04 mmole was weighed into a 150 ml reaction tube purged with argon, and the inside of the tube was dried under reduced pressure. Then, the reaction tube was again purged with argon. Dry tetrahydrofuran 10 ml and tributylphosphine 0.673 ml 2.70 mmoles were introduced into the reaction tube, and stirred at 19 0C with stirring to form a uniform solution. The solution was cooled to 780C, and n butyllithium 1.60 M, 0.647 ml, 1.04 mmoles was added, and the mixture was stirred at 78 C for 10 minutes. Then, a solution of R 4 t butyldimethylsiloxy 2 cyclopentenone 200 mg, 0.942 mmole in tetrahydrofuran 15 ml was added dropwise at 78 0C over 0.8 hours using a syringe drive.The mixture was stirred at 78 0C for 10 minutes. Then, hexamethylphosphoric triamide 2 ml was added, and the mixture was stirred for 40 minutes at 78 0C. Tributyltin chloride 0.28 ml, 1.04 mmole was added, and the temperature was raised to 30 0C. A solution of l bromo 2 octyne 197 mg, 1.04 mmole in tetrahydrofuran 2 ml was added, and the mixture was stirred for 17.5 hours. Ether 10 ml was added to the reaction mixture, and the mixture was successively washed with a saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 10 ml , a saturated aqueous potassium thiocyanate solution 10 ml and a saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 10 ml . The separated organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The dried product was tiltered and concentrated under reduced pressure.The resulting crude product was separated by silica gel column chromatography Merck 7734, 6 water, 20 g hexane ethyl acetate 30 1 to give 2R,3R,4R 3 butyl 4 t butyldimethylsiloxy 2 2 octynyl cyclopentanone 58.8 mg, 0.155 mmole, 16 which coincided with the product obtained in i above. EXAMPLE 2 Synthesis of 11,15 bis t butyldimethylsilyl 5,6 dehydroprostaglandin E2 methyl ester EMI24.1 i A solution of E,3S 3 t butyldimethylsiloxy liodo l octene 354 mg, 0.961 mmole in dry ether 5 ml was put in a 150 ml reaction tube purged with argon, and cooled to 950C. Then, t butyllithium 1.77 M, 1.09 ml, 1.92 mmoles was added dropwise and the mixture was stirred for 3 hours at 95 to 780C. Separately, cuprous iodide 183 mg, 0.961 mmole of cupric iodide was weighed into a 30 ml eggplant shaped flask. The inside of the tube was dried under reduced pressure and again purged with argon. Tetrahydrofuran 4 ml and tributylphosphine 0.62 ml, 2.50 mmoles were added, and the mixture was stirred at 21 0C to form a uniform solution. The uniform solution was added at a time to the above prepared alkenyl lithium solution under argon pressure using a stainless steel tube. The mixture was stirred at 780C for 5 minutes. Then, a solution of R 4 t butyldimethylsiloxy 2 cyclopentenone 200 mg, 0.942 mmole in tetrahydrofuran 15 ml was added dropwise over 1 hour at 780C using a syringe drive. The mixture was stirred at 78 0C for 1 hour.Thereafter, hexamethylphosphoric triamide 2 ml was added, and the mixture was stirred at 78 0C for 1 hour. Then, tributyltin chloride 0.26 ml, 0.961 mmole was added, and the temperature was raised to 50c. A solution of l iodo 6 methoxycarbonyl2 hexyne 276 mg, 1.04 millimoles in tetrahydrofuran 2 ml was added, and the mixture was stirred for 1 hour.Ether 20 ml was added to the reaction mixture, and the mixture was successively washed with a saturated aqueous solution of ammonium chloride 30 ml , a saturated aqueous solution of potassium thiocyanate 30 ml and a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride 30 ml . The separated organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The dried product was filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting crude product was separated by silica gel column chromatography Merck 7734, 6 water, 40 g hexane ethyl acetate 40 1 to give 11,15 bis t butyldimethylsilyl 5,6 dehydroprostaglandin E2 methyl ester 105.6 mg, 0.178 mmole, 19 . TLC Rf 0.50 ethyl acetate hexane 1 5 IR liquid film 1746, 1246, 827 and 767 cm 1. 1H NMR CDC13 CC14 1 1 6 0.04 and 0.06 each s, 12, SiCH3 x 2 , 0.89 s, 18, SiC CH3 3 x 2 , 0.92 t, 1, J 6.5Hz, CH3 , 1.1 1.5 m, 8, CH2 x 4 , 1.7 2.9 m, 12, CH2CO x 2, CH2C C x 2, CH x 2 and CH2 , 3.65 s, 3, OCH3 , 4.05 m, 2, CHOSi x 2 , 5.4 5.7 m, 2, vinyl . 13C NMR CDC13 6 4.7, 4.5, for 2 , 4.2, 13.6, 14.0, 16.9, 18.0, 18.2, 22.6, 24.2, 25.0, 25.8 for 3 , 25.9, for 3 , 31.9, 32.7, 38.6, 47.7, 51.4, 51.9, 52.9, 72.7, 73.1, 77.3, 80.8, 128.2, 136.8, 173.4, 213.4. alpha D21 13.9 C 1.59, CH3OH . ii A solution of E,3S 3 t butyldimethylsiloxy liodo l octene 354 mg, 0.961 mmole in dry ether 5 ml was added to a 150 ml argon purged reaction tube, and cooled to 950C. Then, t butyllithium 1.77 M, 1.09 ml, 1.92 mmoles was added dropwise, and the mixture was stirred for 3 hours at 95 to 78 0C. Separately, cuprous iodide 183 mg, 0.961 mmole was weighed into a 30 ml eggplant shaped flask. The inside of the tube was dried under reduced pressure and again purged with argon. Tetrahydrofuran 4 ml and tributylphosphine 0.62 ml, 2.50 mmoles were added and stirred to form a uniform solution. The uniform solution was added at a time to the alkenyllithium solution prepared above under argon pressure using a stainless steel tube. The stainless steel tube was washed with tetrahydrofuran 2 ml , and the washing was also added dropwise. The mixture was stirred at 78 C for 5 minutes. Then, a solution of R 4 t butyldinmethylsiloxy 2 cyclopentenone 200 mg, 0.942 mmole in tetrahydrofuran 10 ml was added dropwise over 30 minutes at 78 C using a syringe drive. The mixture was stirred at 78 0C for 10 minutes. Thereafter, tributyltin chloride 0.26 ml, 0.961 mmole was added, and the mixture was stirred at 78 0C for 1 hour. A solution of l iodo 6methoxycarbonyl 2 hexyne 276 mg, 1.04 mmoles in tetrahydrofuran 2 ml was added, and the mixture was stirred for 20 minutes.Hexamethylphosphoric triamide 0.9 ml was added, and the mixture was stirred at 78 0C for 15 minutes.The temperature was then elevated to 45 0C, and the mixture was stirred for 30 minutes. Hexamethylphosphoric triamide 0.9 ml was added, and the mixture was stirred for 1.5 hours. A saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 30 ml was added to the reaction mixture, and the mixture was vigorously shaken. The mixture was separated into an organic layer and an aqueous layer. The organic layer was successively washed with a saturated aqueous solution of potassium thiocyanate 30 ml , and a saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 30 ml , and then dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The dried product was filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure.The crude product obtained was separated by silica gel column chromatography Merck 7734, 6 water, 40 g, ethyl acetate hexane l 40 to give 11,15 bis t butyldimethylsilyl 5,6 dehydroprosta glandin E2 methyl ester 173.9 mg, 0.293 mmole, 31 . The various spectral data of this product agreed with those given in section i above. iii E l iodo 3 t butylsiloxy l octene 593.1 mg, 3 1.61 x 10 3 mole and dry ether 6 ml were taken into a 150 ml argon purged reaction tube. Then, t butyllithium 1.72 ml, 3.22 x 10 3 mole was added by using a syringe, and the mixture was stirred at 95 to 780C for 3 hours.Separately, cuprous iodide 306.6 mg, 1.61 x 10 3 mole was taken into a 30 ml eggplant shaped flask. The inside of the tube was dried under heat and reduced pressure, and then purged with argon. Dry tetrahydrofuran 6 ml and tributylphosphine 1.04 ml, 4.19 x 10 3 mole were added, and the mixture was stirred at 23 C to form a uniform solution. The solution was cooled to 78 0C, and added at a time to the above prepared vinyl lithium solution under argon pressure by means of a stainless steel tube. The mixture was stirred at 780C for 10 minutes. A solution of 4 t butyldimethylsiloxy 2 cyclopentenone 325.6 mg, 153 x 10 mole in THF 12 ml was added dropwise over 1 hour. The reaction tube was washed with 1 ml of THF, and the mixture was further stirred for 10 minutes. HMPA 1.5 ml was added, and the mixture was stirred for 30 minutes.Thereafter, a solution of triphenyltin chloride 627.6 mg, 1.61 x 10 3 mole in 2 ml of THF was added, and after the temperature was elevated to 30 0C, a solution of l iodo 6 carbomethoxy 2 hexyne 814.2 mg, 3.06 x 10 mole in HMPA was added, and the mixture was stirred at 300C for 4.5 hours. Subsequently, the mixture was left to stand at 27 0C for 13 hours, and a saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 20 ml was added. The mixture was vigorously shaken to separate it into an organic layer and an aqueous layer. The aqueous layer was extracted with ether 20 ml x 2 . The ethereal layers were combined, washed with a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride, and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate.The dried product was filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting crude product was separated by silica gel column chromatography Merck 7734, 50 g, ethyl acetate hexane 1 60, 600 ml 5 l 20 ethyl acetate hexane, 200 ml to give dl 11,15 bisit butyldimethylsilyl 5,6 dehydroprostaglandin E2 methyl ester 542.1 mg, yield 59.7 . IR liquid film 1746, 1246, 827 and 767 cm 1. EXAMPLE 3 Synthesis of 11,15 bis t butyldimethylsilyl prostaglandin E2 methyl ester EMI28.1 i A solution of E, 3S 3 t butyldimethylsiloxyl iodo l octene 354 mg, 0.961 mmole in dry ether 5 ml was put in a 150 ml reaction tube purged with argon, and cooled to 950C. Then, t butyllithium 1.77 M, 1.09 ml, 1.92 mmoles was added dropwise, and the mixture was stirred for 3 hours at 95 to 78 0C. Separately, cuprous iodide 183 mg, O.961 mmole was weighed into a 30 ml eggplant shaped flask. The inside of the tube was dried under reduced pressure and purged again with rgon. Tetrahydrofuran 4 ml and tributylphosphine 0.62 ml, 2.50 mmoles were added, and the mixture was stirred at 29 0C to form a uniform solution.The uniform solution was added at once under argon pressure to the alkenyllithium solution prepared above by means of a stainless steel tube. The mixture was stirred at 780C for 5 minutes. Then, a solution of R 4 t butyldimethylsiloxy 2 cyclopentenone 200 mg, 0.942 mmole in tetrahydrofuran 10 ml was added dropwise over 30 minutes by means of a syringe drive. The mixture was then stirred at 78 0C for 10 minutes. Thereafter, tributyltin chloride 0.26 ml, 0.961 mmole was added, and the mixture was stirred at 780C for 30 minutes.Hexamethylphosphhoric triamide 1.8 ml was added, and a solution of Z l iodo 6 methoxycarbonyl 2 hexene 279 mg, 1.04 mmoles in tetrahydrofuran 2 ml was added, and the temperature was raised to 45OC The mixture was stirred for 2 hours. A saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 40 ml was added to the reaction mixture, and the mixture was vigorously shaken to separate it into an organic layer and an aqueous layer. The organic layer was successively washed with a saturated aqueous potassium thiocyanate solution 40 ml and a saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 40 ml , and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The dried product was filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure.The crude product was separated by silica gel column chromatography Merck 7734, 40 g, ethyl acetate hexane l 20 to give 11,15 bis t butyldimethylsilyl prostaglandin E2 methyl ester 142.5 mg, 0.239 mmole, 25 . TLC Rf 0.58 ethyl acetate hexane l 5 IR liquid film 1743, 1243, 1000, 964, 927, 828 and 768 cm 1. 1H NMR CDC13 6 0.03 and 0.06 each s, 12, SiCH3 x 2 , 0.8 1.0 m, 21, C CH3 x 7 , 1.2 1.5 m, 8, CH2 x 4 , 1.6 2.9 m, 12, CH2CO x 2, CH2C x 2, CH x 2 and CH2 , 3.67 s, 3, OCH3 , 4.06 m, 2, CHOSi x 2 , 5.37 m, 2, vinyl , 5.54 m, 2, vinyl . a 21. 52.70 C 1.28, CH3OH . ii E 1 iodo 3 t butyldimethylsiloxy 1 octene 593.1 mg, 1.61 x 100 3 mole and 6 ml of dry ether were taken into a 150 ml argon purged reaction tube, cooled to 950C, and kept stirred. t Butyllithium 1.72 ml, 3.22 x 3 10 3 mole was added by means of a syringe, and the mixture was stirred at 95 to 78 0C for 3 hours. Separately, cuprous iodide 306.6 mg, 1.61 x 10 mole was taken into a 30 g eggplant shaped flask. The inside of the tube was dried under heat and reduced pressure, and then purged with argon. Dry THF 6 ml and tributylphosphine 1.04 ml, 4.19 x 10 3 mole were added, and the mixture was stirred at 25 C to form a uniform solution.The uniform solution was cooled to 78 C, and added at a time under argon pressure by means of a stainless steel tube to the vinyllithium solution prepared above. The mixture was stirred at 78 C for 10 minutes. HMPA 1.5 ml was added, and the mixture was stirred for 30 minutes. Triphenyltin chloride 627.6 ml, 1.61 x 10 3 mole in THF 2 ml was added. The temperature was elevated to 30 C, and a solution of Z l iodo 6 carbomethoxy 2 hexene 1.231 g, 4.59 x 10 mole in HMPA was added. The mixture was stirred at 300C for 3 hours. Subsequently, the reaction mixture was left to stand at 27 C for 97.9 hours, and then a satured aqueous ammonium chloride solution 20 ml was added. The mixture was shaken vigorously to separate it into an organic layer and an aqueous layer.The organic layer was washed with a saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The dried product was filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was subjected to short chromatography Merck 7734, 5 g, ethyl acetate hexane l 5 to remove highly polar substances tributylphosphine and triphenyltin chloride . The product was purified by silica gel column chromatography Merck 7734, 50 g, l 60 ethyl acetate hexane, 780 ml l 20 ethyl acetate hexane, 600 ml to give dl 11,15 bis t butyuldimethylsilyl prostaglandin E2 methyl ester 647 mg, yield 71 . IR liquid film 1743, 1243, 1000, 964, 927, 828, and 768 cm 1 . EXAMPLE 4 Synthesis of 11,15 bis t butyldimethylsilyl prostaglandin E1 methyl ester EMI31.1 E, 3S 3 t butyldimethylsoloxy 1 iodo octene 607.8 mg 1.65 x 10 3 mole and 6 ml of dry ether were weighed into a 150 ml. argon purged reaction tube, cooled to 950C, and stirred. t Butyllithium 1.92 M, 1.72 ml, 3.30 x 10 mole was added to the mixture by means of a syringe, and the mixture was stirred at 95 to 780C for 3 hours. Separately, a 30 ml eggplant shaped flask was provided, and cuprous iodide 314.2 mg 1.65 x 10 mole was weighed into it. The reaction mixture in the flask was dried by heating under reduced pressure, and then the reaction system was purged with argon. Dry THF 6 ml and tributylphosphine 1.07 ml 4.29 x 10 6 mole were added, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature to form a uniform solution. The solution was cooled to 780C and added at a time to the above prepared vinyllithium solution by means of a stainless steel tube under argon pressure.After stirring at 78 0C for 10 minutes, a THF solution 12 ml of R 4 t butyldimethylsiloxy 2 cyclopentenone 318.5 mg, 1.50 x 10 3 mole was added dropwise over 1 hour. The flask was further washed with 1 ml of THF, and the washing was added. The reaction mixture was stirred for 10 minutes. To the reaction mixture was added 1.5 ml of hexamethylphosphoric triamide HMPA , and the mixture was stirred for 30 minutes. Then, a THF solution 2 ml of triphenyltin chloride 643.2 mg 1.65 x 10 3 mole was added. The reaction solution was heated to 20 C, and anHMPA solution 2.87 ml of methyl 6 iodohexanoate 2.0882 mg 7.73 x 10 3 mole was added. The mixture was stirred at 20 C for 16 hours.After the reaction, 20 ml of a saturated aqueous solution of ammonium chloride was added, and the mixture was well shaken to separate it into an organic layer and an aqueous layer. The aqueous layer was extracted with ether 2 x 20 ml . The organic layers were combined and washed with a saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 20 ml , and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The desiccant was removed by filtration, and the residue was concentrated under reduced pressure. The concentrate was chromatographed on a silica gel column Merck 7734, 5 g l 5 ethyl acetate hexane .The resulting crude concentrated product was chromatographed on a column of silica gel Merck 7734, 50 g ethyl acetate hexane l 60, 900 ml 5 ethyl acetate hexane l 20, 600 ml to give 178.7 mg 20 of ll,15 bis 1 butyldimethylsilyl prostagalndin E1 methyl ester. TLC Rf 0.52 ethyl acetate hexane I 5 H NMR CDC13 o 5.6 5.4 m, 2H , 4.2 3.8 m, 2H , 3.66 s, 3H , 2.64 dd, 1H, J 7.2, 18.4Hz , 2.4 1.8 m, 4H , 1.7 1.0 m , 1.0 0.8 m, 21H , 0.1 0.0 m . IR neat 1750 cm 1 EXAMPLE 5 Synthesis of 2R,3R,4R 2 allyl 4 t butyldi methylsilyloxy 3 E,3S 3 t butyldimethylsilyl oxy l 1 octenyl cyclopentanone EMI33.1 The procedure of Example 3 was repeated except that allyl iodide was used instead of Z l iodo 6 methoxycarbonyl 2 hexene. 2R,3R,4R 2 allyl 4 t butyldimethyl silyloxy 3 E,3S 3 t butyldimethylsilyl oxy 1 octenyl cyclopentanone was obtained in a yield of 71 . H NMR CDC13 6 0.07 12H, s , 0.86 21H, s , 1.1 1.5 8H, m , 1.6 2.8 6H, m , 3.8 4.3 2H, m , 4.75 5.60 5H, m . IR liquid film 3100, 1745, 1255, 1110, 965, 910, 875, 835, 810 and 770 cm 1. MS m e 494, 479, 437 and 379. EXAMPLE 6 Synthesis of 2R,3R,4R 4 t butyldimethyl silyloxy 3 E,3E 3 t butyldimethylsilyloxy l octenyl 2 2 propynyl cyclopentanone EMI33.2 The procedure of Example 2 was repeated except that propargyl iodide was used instead of l iodo 6 methoxycarbonyl 2 hexyne. 2R,3R,4R 4 t butyldimethylsilyloxy 3 E,3S 3 t butyldimethylsilyloxy l octenylj 2 2 propargyl cyclopentanone was obtained in a yield of 658. 1H NMR CDC13 6 0.06 12H, s , 0.87 21H , 1.0 1.7 8H, m , 1.8 3.0 7H, m , 3.7 4.2 2H, m , 5.3 5.6 2H, m .IR liquid film 3330, 1755, 1255, 1155, 1120, 1090, 1005, 965, 880, 835 and 775 cam 1. EXAMPLES 7 16 Syntheses of 11,15 bis t butyldimethylsilyloxy prostaglandin E2 methyl esters EMI34.1 The following compounds were synthesized by the same procedure as in Example 3 yields 19 67 . Example 7 11,15 bis t butyldimethylsilyl 17 R ,20 dimethylprostaglandin E2 methyl ester Example 8 11,15 bis t butyldimethylsilyl 17 S ,20 dimethylprostaglandin E2 methyl ester Example 9 11,15 bis t butyldimethylsilyl 16,17,18,19,20 pentanor 15 cyclopentylprostaglandin E2 methyl ester Example 10 11,15 bis t butyldimethylsilyl 16,17,18,19,20 pentanor 15 cyclohexylprostaglandin E2 methyl ester Example 11 11,15 bis t butyldimehylsilyl 15 methylprostaglandin E2 methyl ester Example 12 11,15 bis t butyldimehylsilyl 16,16 dimethylprostaglandin E2 methyl ester Example 13 11,15 bis t butyldimehylsilyl 20 isopropylidene 17 methylprostaglandin E2 methyl ester Example 14 11,15 bis t butyldimethylsilyl 18,18,19,19 tetradehydro 16 methylprostaglandin E2 methyl ester Example 15 11,15 bis t butyldimethylsilyl 18,19,20 trinor 17 phenylprostaglandin E2 methyl ester Example 16 11 t butyldimethylsilyl 15deoxy 16 trimethylsilyloxy 16 vinylprostaglandin E2 methyl ester The characteristic spectral data of the compounds obtained in Examples 7 to 16 are listed in Table 1. EXAMPLES 17 18 Syntehsis of 11,15 bis t butyldimethylsilyloxy prostaglandin E2 analogues The following compounds were syntehsized in the same way as in Example 1 and Examples 7 16 yields 35 49 . Example 17 11,15 bis t butyldimethylsilyl 2,3 dehydro 17,18,19,20 tetranor 16 3 alphatalphatalpha trifluoromethyl phenoxy prostagl andin E2 methyl ester Example 18 11,15 bis t butyldimethylsilyl 4,5,6 trinor 3,7 inter m phenylene 3 oxaprostaglandin E2 methyl ester The characteristic spectral data of the compounds obtained in Examples 17 and 18 are shown in Table 1. EXAMPLES 19 20 Synthesis of prostaglandin E1 methyl ester analogues The following compounds were synthesized by the same procedure as in Example 4 yields 17 32 . Example 19 11 t butyldimethylsilyl 15 deoxy 16 methyl 16 trimethylsilyloxyprostaglandin E1 methyl ester Example 20 4Z A4 ll t butyldimkethylsilyl 15 deoxy 16 methyl 16 trimethylsilyloxyprostaglandin E methyl ester The characteristic spectral data of the compounds obtained in Examples 19 and 20 are shown in Table 1. Table 1EMI36.1 SEP Ex SEP 1H SEP NMR SEP CDCl3 6 SEP IR SEP liquid SEP MS tb SEP ample SEP film SEP cm 1 tb SEP 0.03 SEP and SEP 0.06 SEP 12H, SEP S , SEP tb SEP 7 SEP 0.8 1.0 SEP 24H, SEP m , SEP 1.2 1.5 SEP 1745, SEP 1245, SEP 565 tb SEP 9H, SEP m , SEP 1.6 2.9 SEP 12H, SEP m , SEP 1000, SEP 965, SEP SEP M 57 . tb SEP 3.67 SEP 3H, SEP S , SEP 3.9 4.2 SEP 2H, SEP m, SEP 930, SEP 830, tb SEP 5.25 5.5 SEP 2H, SEP m , SEP 5.5 5.65 SEP 770. tb SEP 2H, SEP m . tb SEP 0.03 SEP and SEP 0.06 SEP 12H, SEP s , tb SEP 0.8 1.0 SEP 24H, SEP m , SEP 1.2 1.5 SEP 1745, SEP 1245, SEP 565 tb SEP 9H, SEP m , SEP 1.6 2.9 SEP 12H, SEP m , SEP 1000, SEP 965, SEP M 57 . tb SEP 3.67 SEP 3H, SEP s , SEP 3.9 4.2 SEP 2H, SEP m, SEP 930, SEP 830, tb SEP 5.25 5.5 SEP 2H, SEP m , SEP 5.5 5.65 SEP 770. tb SEP 2H, SEP m . tb SEP 0.06 SEP 12H , SEP 0.8 1.0 SEP 18H, SEP s , SEP 1745, SEP 1245, tb SEP 9 SEP 1.1 1.5 SEP 9H, SEP m , SEP 1.6 2.9 SEP 1000, SEP 965, SEP 535 tb SEP 12H, SEP m , SEP 3.67 SEP 3H, SEP 5 , SEP 930, SEP 830, SEP M 57 . tb SEP 3.9 4.2 SEP 2H, SEP m , SEP 5.25 5.65 SEP 770. tb SEP 4H, SEP m . tb SEP 0.06 SEP 12H , SEP 0.8 1.0 SEP 18H, SEP S , SEP 1745, SEP 1245, tb SEP 10 SEP 1.1 1.5 SEP 11H, SEP m , SEP 1.6 2.9 SEP 1000, SEP 965, SEP 549 tb SEP 12H, SEP m , SEP 3.67 SEP 3H, SEP s , SEP 930, SEP 830, SEP M 57 . SEP tb SEP 3.9 4.2 SEP 2H, SEP m , SEP 5.25 5.65 SEP 770. tb SEP 4H, SEP m . tb SEP 0.03 SEP and SEP 0.06 SEP 12H, SEP S , SEP 1745, SEP 1250, SEP 609 tb SEP 11 SEP 0.90 SEP 21H , SEP 1.23 SEP 3H, SEP s , SEP 1155, SEP 1095, SEP M 1 . tb SEP 0.9 1.6 SEP 10H, SEP m , SEP 1.6 2.7 SEP 1005, SEP 835, SEP 551 tb SEP 10H, SEP m , SEP 3.65 SEP 3H, SEP S , SEP 4.1 SEP 770. SEP M 57 . tb SEP 1H, SEP m , SEP 5.5 SEP 4H, SEP m . tb SEP 0.06 SEP 12H , SEP 0.87 SEP 21H , SEP 1.14 SEP 1745, SEP 1245, tb SEP 12 SEP 6H, SEP S , SEP 1.0 2.8 SEP 18H, SEP m , SEP 1000, SEP 965, SEP 565 tb SEP 3.60 SEP 3H, SEP S , SEP 3.8 4.2 SEP 2H, SEP m , SEP 930, SEP 830, SEP M 57 . tb SEP 5.2 5.6 SEP 4H, SEP m . SEP 770. tb SEP 0.06 SEP 12H , SEP 0.87 SEP 21H , SEP 1745, SEP 1255, tb SEP 13 SEP 1.5 1.8 SEP 6H, SEP d , SEP 1.0 2.8 SEP 1000, SEP 965, SEP 591 tb SEP 19H, SEP m , SEP 3.63 SEP 3H, SEP S , SEP 935, SEP 835, SEP M 57 . tb SEP 3.8 4.2 SEP 2H, SEP m , SEP 4.8 5.6 SEP 770. tb SEP 4H, SEP m , SEP 6.5 7.2 SEP 1H, SEP m . tb to be continued Table 1 continued EMI37.1 tb Ex SEP 1H SEP NMR SEP CDC13 SEP 6 SEP IR SEP liquid SEP MS tb ample SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP film SEP cm tb SEP 0.06 SEP 12H , SEP 0.87 SEP 24H, SEP m , SEP 2250, SEP 1745, tb SEP 14 SEP 1.0 2.9 SEP 19H, SEP m , SEP 3.65 SEP 1255, SEP 1000, SEP 547 tb SEP 3H, SEP s , SEP 3.9 4.2 SEP 2H, SEP m , SEP 970, SEP 935, SEP M 57 . tb SEP 5.25 5.6 SEP 4H, SEP m . SEP 830, SEP 770. tb SEP 0.06 SEP 12H , SEP 0.87 SEP 18H, SEP s , SEP 3030, SEP 1745, tb SEP 1.0 2.9 SEP 16H, SEP m , SEP 3.63 SEP 1600, SEP 1255, SEP 571 tb SEP 3H, SEP s , SEP 3.9 4.2 SEP 2H, SEP m , SEP 1005, SEP 965, SEP M 57 . tb SEP 5.3 5.6 SEP 4H, SEP m , SEP 7.3 SEP 4H, SEP s . SEP 935, SEP 830, tb SEP 770. tb SEP 0.05 SEP 6H, SEP s , SEP 0.90 SEP 9H, SEP s , SEP 3080, SEP 1745, tb SEP 16 SEP 0.87 SEP 12H, SEP s t , SEP 1.1 1.9 SEP 1250, SEP 1005, SEP 563 tb SEP 16H, SEP m , SEP 2.1 2.6 SEP 8H, SEP m , SEP 965, SEP 930, SEP M 57 . tb SEP 3.65 SEP 3H, SEP s , SEP 4.2 4.5 SEP 1H, SEP m , SEP 830, SEP 770. tb SEP 4.7 5.6 SEP 7H, SEP m . tb SEP 0.06 SEP 12H SEP 0.87 SEP 21H, SEP s t , SEP 3050, SEP 1745, SEP 62 SEP tb SEP 17 SEP SEP 1.0 2.9 SEP 12H, SEP m , SEP 2.6 SEP 2H, SEP d , SEP SEP 1600, SEP 1585, SEP SEP M . tb SEP 3.73 SEP 3H, SEP s , SEP 4.2 4.5 SEP 2H, SEP m , SEP 1255, SEP 1090, SEP 575 tb SEP 4.67 SEP 2H, SEP s , SEP 6.7 7.4 SEP 4H, SEP m . SEP SEP 1055, SEP 965, SEP SEP M 57 . tb SEP 835, SEP 775. tb SEP 0.06 SEP 12H , SEP 0.85 SEP 11H, SEP s , SEP 3050, SEP 1745, SEP 696 tb SEP 18 SEP 1.1 3.0 SEP 10H, SEP m , SEP 3.63 SEP 1725, SEP 1600, SEP M SEP . tb SEP 3H, SEP s , SEP 3.93 SEP 2H, SEP d , SEP 3.9 4.3 SEP 1315, SEP 1255, SEP 639 tb SEP 2H, SEP in , SEP 5.2 5.7 SEP 4H, SEP m , SEP 1005, SEP 965, SEP M 57 . tb SEP 6.7 7.6 SEP 68, SEP m . SEP 930, SEP 835, tb SEP 770. tb SEP 0.05 SEP 6H, SEP s , SEP 0.10 SEP 9H, SEP s , SEP 1740, SEP 1250, SEP 512. tb SEP 19 SEP 0.86 SEP 1211, SEP s t , SEP 1.15 SEP 3H, SEP s , SEP 1170, SEP 1100, SEP 395. tb SEP 1.1 1.9 SEP 1611, SEP m , SEP 2.1 2.6 SEP 1060, SEP 970, SEP 173. tb SEP 88, SEP m , SEP 3.64 SEP 38, SEP s , SEP 4.2 4.5 SEP 860, SEP 835, SEP 58. tb SEP 1H, SEP m , SEP 5.2 5.8 SEP 2H, SEP m . SEP 775, SEP 750. tb SEP 0.05 SEP 6H, SEP s , SEP 0.09 SEP 9H, SEP s , SEP 1740, SEP 1255, tb SEP 20 SEP 0.85 SEP 12H, SEP s t , SEP 1.15 SEP 3H, SEP s , SEP 1170, SEP 1100, SEP 509 tb SEP 1.0 2.7 SEP 2211, SEP m , SEP 3.63 SEP 1060, SEP 970, SEP M 57 . tb SEP 3H, SEP s , SEP 4.2 4.5 SEP 1H, SEP m , SEP 860, SEP 835, tb SEP 5.1 5.8 SEP 4H, SEP m . SEP SEP 770, SEP 750. tb REFERENTIAL EXAMPLE 1Synthesis of 11,15 bis t butyldimethylsilyl prostaglandin E2 methyl ester EMI38.1 11,15 bis t butyldimethylsilyl 5, 6 dehydro prostaglandin E2 methyl ester 48.2 mg 0.081 mmole and synthetic quinoline 25 mg were dissolved in benzene 2.5 ml , and cyclohexane 2.5 ml and then 5 Pd BASO4 25 mg were added. The mixture was stirred at 25 0C for 3 hours in an atmopshere of hydrogen. Then, synthetic quinoline 50 mg and 5 PdBaSO4 50 mg were additionally supplied, and 0 the mixture was stirred at 40 C for 4.5 hours. The cata lyst was removed by filtration, and the filtrate was washed with ethyl acetate. The washings were combined, and concentrated under reduced pressure. The concentrate was chromatographed on a silica gel column 8 g, ether hexane l l0 . The collected fractions were concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was left to stand for 7 hours under reduced pressure 4 mmHg created by a vacuum pump to give 11,15 bis tbutyldimethylsilyl prostaglandin E2 methyl ester 41.8 mg 87 . TLC Rf 0.58 ethyl acetate hexane l 5 IR liquid film 1743, 1243, 1000, 964, 927, 828 and 768 cm 1. 1H NMR CDC13 6 0.03 and 0.06 each s, 12, SiCH3 x 4 , 0.8 1.0 m, 21, C CH3 x 7 , 1.2 1.5 m, 8, CH2 x 4 , 1.6 2.9 m, 12, CH2CO x 2, CH2C x 2, CH x 2 and CH2 , 3.67 s, 3, OCH3 , 4.06 m, 2, CHOSi x 2 , 5.37 m, 2, vinyl , 5.54 m, 2, vinyl . a 21 52.7 C 1.28, CH30H . D This compound completely agreed with the 11,15protected disilyl compound drerived from PGE2. REFERENTIAL EXAMPLE 2 Synthesis of prostaglandin E2 methyl ester EMI39.1 11,15 bis t butyldimethylsilyl prostaglandin E2 methyl ester 40 mg, 0.067 mmole was disolved in anhydrous acetonitrile 8 ml , and at 0 C, HF pyrifine 0.1 ml was added. The mixture was stirred at 240C for 30 minutes. HF pyridine 0.4 ml was added further, and the mixture was stirred for 3 hours, and then poured into a saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 20 ml . The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate three times 30 ml x 3 . The organic layers were combined, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, and concentrated under reduced pressure. Toluene was added to the residue, and the mixture was further concentrated under reduced pressure in order to remove pyridine from the residue. The residue was left to stand for a while under reduced pressure 4 mmHg created by a vacuum pump, and then chromatographed on a silica gel column 2 g, ethyl acetate hexane 1 1 1 0 gradient to give PGE2 methyl ester 24.1 mg, 98 . TLC Rf 0.29 ethyl acetate cyclohexane THF 6 3 1 IR liquid film 3680 3080, 1744 and 970 cm 1. 1H NMR CDC13 6 0.90 t, 1, J 6.5Hz, CH3 , 1.1 2.9 m, 20, CH2CO x 2, CH2 x 5, CH2C x 2, CH x 2 , 3.08 br, 1, OH , 3.66 s, 3, OCH3 , 4.06 m, 3, CHO x 2 and OH , 5.34 m, 1, vinyl , 5.70 m, 1, vinyl .3C NMR CDC13 CC14 6 14.0, 22.6, 24.7, 25.1, 26.6, 31.7, 33.5, 37.3, 46.1, 51.5, 53.7, 54.5, 72.0, 73.0, 126.6, 130.8, 131.5, 136.8, 174.0, 214.1. ai22. 71,70 C 1.043, CH30H . REFERENTIAL EXAMPLE 3 Synthesis of 11,15 bis t butyldimethylsilyl 5,6 prostaglandin F2a methyl ester EMI40.1 A toluene solution 1 ml of ll,l5rbis t butyl dimethylsilyl 5,6 dehydroprostaglandin E2 methyl ester 25.5 mg 0.043 mmole was added at 78 C to a toluene solution 0.192 M 2.24 ml 0.43 mmole of diisobutylaluminum hydride 1 equivalent 2,6 di t butyl 4 methylphenol 2 equivalents . The mixture was stirred at 78 0C for 2 hours. The temperature was then elevated, and the mixture was stirred at 25 to 200C for 3 hours. A saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen tartrate solution lQ ml wass added, and the mixture was vigorously shaken.It was extracted three times with ethyl acetate 20 I0 IO ml at room temperature. The organic layers were combined, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was chromatographed on a silica gel column 5 g, ethyl acetate hexane 5 l to give 11,15 bis t butyldimethylsilyl 5,6 dehydroprostaglandin F2 alpha methyl ester 23.5 mg, 92 , a component having low polarity . TLC Rf 0.29 ethyl acetate hexane 15 IR liquid film 3640 3080, 1745, 1247, 1020, 970, 930, 830 and 770 cm 1.1H NMR CDC13 6 0.02 and 0.05 each s, 12, SiCH3 x 4 , 0.7 1.0 m, 21, C CH3 x 7 , 2.1 3.5 m, 20, CH2CO, CH2 x 6, CH2C x 2, and CH x 2 , 3.69 d, 1, J 8.3Hz, OH , 3.67 s, 3, OCH3 , 4.00 and 4.24 br, 3, CHO x 3 , 5.40 m, 2, vinyl . alpha D21 0.37 C 0.715, CH3OH . REFERNTIAL EXAMPLE 4 Synthesis of 11,15 bis t butyldimethylsilyl prostaglandin F2a methyl ester EMI41.1 11,15 bis t butyldimethylsilyl 5,6 dehydroprostaglandin F2a methyl ester 28.7 mg 0.048 mmole was dissolved in benzene 1 ml , and cyclohexane 1 ml andLinder catalyst 28.7 mg were added. The mixture was stirred at 22 to 23.5 C for 12 hours in an atmosphere of hydrogen. The catalyst was removed by filtration. The filtrate was washed with ethyl acetate. The organic layers were combined and concentrated under reduced pressure. The concentrate was chromatographed on a silica gel column 6 g, ethyl acetate hexane benzene 1 15 2 to give ll,15 bis t butyldimethylsilyl prostaglandin F2a methyl ester 23.2 mg, 81 . TLC Rf 0.32 ethyl acetate hexane l 5 IR liquid film 3610 3280, 1745, 1250, 1000, 970, 938, 830 and 770 cm 1.1H NMR CDC13 6 0.03 and 0.05 each S, 12, SiCH3 x 4 , 0.8 1.0 m, 21, C CH3 x 7 , 1.2 2.4 m, 20, CH2CO, CH2 x 6, CH2C x 2, and CH x 2 , 2.69 d, 1, J 9.5Hz, OH , 3.67 s, 3, OCH3 , 4.05 br, 3, CHO x 3 , 5.40 m, 2, vinyl . alpha D23 12.30 C 1.037, CH3OH . REFERENTIAL EXAMPLE 5 Synthesis of prostaglandin F2 alpha methyl ester EMI42.1 11,15 bis t butyldimethylsilyl prostaglandin F2 alpha methyl ester 21 mg, 0.035 mmole was dissolved in acetic acid 1 ml , and 1120 0.33 ml and THF 0.1 ml were added.The mixture was stirred at 550C for 1.5 hours. The mixture was transferred to a large vessel, and toluene was added.The mixture was concentrated under pressure several times to remove acetic acid and H20. The residue was chromatographed on a silica gel column 3 g, ethyl acetate hexane 1 1 1 0 , gradient to give PGF2 methyl ester 11 mg, 85 . TLC Rf 0.2 ethyl acetate cyclohexane THF 6 3 1 IR liquid film 3640 3040, 1738, 1435, 1160, 1116, 1042, 1020, 968 and 858 cm 1. 1H NMR CDCL3 6 0.89 t, s, J 6.5Hz, CH3 , 1.2 2.4 m, 20, CH2CO, CH2 x 6, CH2C x 2, and CH x 2 , 2.57 br, 1, OH , 3.29 br, 1, OH , 3.69 s, 3, OCH3 , 4.03 brm, 3, CHO x 3 , 5.3 5.6 m, 2, vinyl . 13C NMR CDCL3 14.0, 22.6, 24.8, 25.2, 25.6, 26.6, 31.8, 33,5, 37.3, 43.0, 50.5, 51.6, 55.8, 72.9, 73.0, 78.0, 129.1, 129.6, 132.6, 135.3, 174.3 alpha D20 31.4 C 0.423, CH3OH . The spectral data IR, 1HNMR, 13CNMR, TLC of the product completely agreed with those of PGF2 methyl ester derived from PGF2 alpha .