# ENZYMATIC PROCESS

## Claims
Verfahren zur Umwandlung eines Dinitrils in die entsprechende Cyanocarbonsäure, das entsprechende Cyanocarbonsäureamid, den entsprechenden Cyanocarbonsäureester oder den entsprechenden Cyanocarbonsäurethioester, welches umfaßt, daß das Dinitril mit einer Mononitrilase behandelt wird, die aus einem Mikroorganismus der Gattung Bacteridium, Bacillus, Brevibacterium, Rhodococcus oder Mikrococcus gewonnen ist, und danach, falls erwünscht, das gewünschte Produkt gewonnen wird.

## Description
The present invention relates to a process for transforming selectively only or mainly one of the cyano groups in dinitriles into the corresponding cyano carboxylic acid, cyano carboxylic acid amides, cyano carboxylic acid ester or cyano carboxylic acid thio ester with the aid of enzymes hereinafter designated mononitrilases. The occurrence of nitrile converting enzymes is well established. Among them, those nitrile converting enzymes which catalyze the transformation of nitriles into the corresponding carboxylic acids have been particularly well studied by workers in the art. Investigations carried out, using such enzymes, indicate that the transformation of nitriles by nitrile converting enzymes may proceed at the molecular level by various mechanisms. Scheme 1 below summarizes one hypothetical scheme which has been forwarded to explain transformation of nitriles into carboxylic acids. wherein R indicates a radical, i.e., the balance of the nitrile, and Enzyme indicates a nitrile converting enzyme. As indicated in Scheme 1, it is speculated that nitriles of the general Formula I attacked by the enzyme goes to the transient species of the general Formula Ia which, in the presence of water, breaks down to a carboxylic acid of the general Formula III or to the corresponding carboxylic acid amide of the general Formula II. The amide of Formula II may subsequently be converted into the transient species of the Formula IIa and, ultimately, into the corresponding carboxylic acid of Formula III. The nitrile converting enzymes catalyzing the transformations from a compound of Formula I into a compound of Formula II, from a compound of Formula II into a compound of Formula III and from a compound of Formula I into a compound of Formula III are denoted nitrile hydratases, amidases and nitrilases, respectively. The term nitrile converting enzyme used herein thus comprises nitrilases and nitrile hydratases optionally containing amidases. The range of nitriles amenable for enzyme catalyzed transformation is very wide indeed. As pointed out in a recent review on bioconversion of nitriles by Jallageas A similar description appears in U.S. patent specification No. 3,940,316 by the Jallageas research group, namely a process by which nitriles are hydrolysed into acids using bacteria showing nitrilasic activity. The hydrolysis are stated to be complete, i.e. dinitriles are completely hydrolysed. A further analogous description by the same research group appears in U.S. patent specification No. 4,001,081 according to which two specific dinitriles are converted into the corresponding diamides using bacteria having nitrilasic activity, i.e., both cyano groups are converted, The present invention comprises a process for converting a dinitrile into a corresponding cyano carboxylic acid, cyano carboxylic acid amide, cyano carboxylic acid ester or cyano carboxylic acid thio ester which comprises treating the dinitile with a mononitrilase generated from a microorganism of the genus Bacteridium, Bacillus, Brevibacterium, Rhodococcus or Micrococcus and, thereafter, if desired, recovering the desired product. For example, the following microbial species may be utilized for generation of mononitrilases Species of The suitability of a specific nitrile converting enzyme for use in the process of this invention can be tested by monitoring the enzyme catalyzed conversion of the dinitrile to be converted by high pressure liquid chromatography hereinafter HPLC , gas liquid chromatography, nuclear magnetic resonance hereinafter designated NMR spectroscopy or other analytical techniques, for example, detection of ammonia liberated during the reaction. Nitrile converting enzymes which attack only one of the cyano groups in a specific dinitrile are mononitrilases. Also, nitrile converting enzymes which, within a certain period of time, attack only one of the cyano groups in a specific dinitrile are suited to practice of this invention. Furthermore, nitrile converting enzymes which preferentially hydrolyse one of the cyano groups in a specific dinitrile and which, within a certain period of time, attack also the second cyano group to a minor degree, for example, less than 25 , preferably less than 5 , by the time the first cyano group has been transformed may also be used in practice of this invention although in such instances, the purification of the desired compound formula V becomes more difficult . Such nitrile converting enzymes are mononitrilases as a practical matter and are herein considered to be mononitrilases for the reason that they have the mononitrilase specificity needed for the process of this invention. According to the above explanation, mononitrilases encompass mononitrile hydratases optionally containing amidases. The mononitrilase preparations used in the process of this invention comprises any preparation which is able to convert only or mainly one of the cyano groups present in a dinitrile into a carboxylic acid group, into a carboxylic acid amide group, into a carboxylic acid ester group or into a carboxylic acid thio ester group. The mononitrilase preparations may be highly purified mononitrilases, crude enzymes isolated from microorganisms, ruptured cells of said microorganisms or intact cells. It may be advantageous to utilize the mononitrilases in an immobilized form which can readily be prepared according to known methods. The mononitrilases may also be used in a chemically modified form exhibiting greater stability and activity than the native enzymes. Nitrile converting enzymes exhibit broad specificity. Also, mononitrilases are broadly applicable to the desired conversion of dinitriles according to this invention. More specifically, cyano carboxylic acids, cyano carboxylic acid amides, cyano carboxylic acid esters and cyano carboxylic acid thio esters of the general Formula V The term lower used in connection with some of the substituents or a part of a substituent in the compounds of formula IV and V indicates that, preferably, the group in question contains not more than six carbon atoms, preferably not more than four carbon atoms. Hence, lower alkyl is, preferably, methyl, ethyl and propyl. Aryl is, preferably, phenyl or naphthyl. Aryl lower alkyl is, preferably, benzyl. Lower alkylene is, preferably, methylene, ethylene, propylene and 1,4 butylene. Lower alkoxy is, preferably, methoxy and ethoxy. Lower alkylthio is, preferably, methylthio or ethylthio. Arylene is, preferably, Specific and preferred examples of dinitriles of Formula IV are dinitriles of malonic acid which may be substituted with 1,5 pentylene or ethylene, of succinic acid, of glutaric acid and of adipic acid. The process of this invention can be carried out by treating dinitriles Formula IV in solution, for example, an aqueous solution, with a mononitrilase. The concentration of the dinitrile Formula IV in the reaction medium may be varied, as required, from dilute to highly concentrated solutions. Organic solvents may be added to the reaction mixture or the enzymatic reaction may be carried out in an essentially water free environment consisting, for example, of the pure starting material Formula IV or a mixture of starting material Formula IV and an organic solvent. The organic solvent may, Conveniently, the enzymatic conversion is followed by analyzing aliquots of the reaction mixture, for example, with HPLC, gas liquid chromatography, NMR spectroscopy or, when amidases or nitrilases are used, determination of ammonia. The reaction is stopped at the desired time, for example, by removal of the enzyme, by heating the reaction mixture or by acidification, for example, to a pH value of about 1, for example, with hydrochloric acid. The reaction time thus determined may be from less than an hour to several hours and it may be desirable to adjust the pH value of the reaction mixture and stir the reaction mixture. Thereafter, the desired compound Formula V is isolated in a manner known A convenient reaction temperature is in the range from about 0 to 50 C, preferably from about 30 to 40 C. Conveniently, the pH value of the reaction medium is in the range from about 4.5 to 10.5, preferably from about 6 to 9. The yield obtained depends, A preferred utility of this invention concerns the preparation of epsilon caprolactam, which is used for preparation of nylon 6. By the process of this invention, adipic acid dinitrile can be converted into adipic acid mononitrile. The latter compound may be hydrogenated by known to the art methods into 6 amino A further preferred utility of this invention concerns the preparation of chirale compounds. Prochirale substrates of the general Formula IV may thus, by the process of this invention, be transformed into chirale products of the general Formula V. For example, prochirale dialkylated derivates of malonic acid dinitrile or related aliphatic dinitriles may, by the process of this invention, be converted into the corresponding chirale monocyano compounds. The process of this invention is further illustrated by the following examples which, however, are not construed as limiting. The examples illustrate some preferred embodiments of the process of this invention. The letters TM after a name indicate that it is a Trademark. 500 ml of a medium containing Peptone 6 g l , Pepticase 4 g l , beef extract 1.5 g l , yeast extract 3 g l and glucose 10 g l in conically shaped shake flasks was inoculated with 10 ml of a 24 hours old culture of strain B222 the CBS No. 498.74, referenced in U.S. patent specification No. 4,001,081, there this organism is designated A 30 mM solution of glutaric acid dinitrile in 0.1 M phosphate buffer at pH 7 was treated substantially as described in Example 1 with the mononitrilase cell mass product. The liberation of ammonia in the reaction mixture was monitored and when conversion into the monocyanomonocarboxylic acid was judged to be complete, the enzymatic reaction was stopped by lowering pH of the reaction mixture to 1 by addition of 1 M hydrochloric acid. Insoluble material was removed from the reaction mixture by centrifugation whereupon the reaction products were removed from the mixture by contineous extraction with diethyl ether. The etheral solution of the reaction product was finally dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated A 30 mM solution of malonic acid dinitrile in 0.1 M phosphate buffer pH 7 was treated with the mononitrilase analogously as described in Example 2. The reaction product was isolated by repeated extraction of the reaction mixture with chloroform after acidification and saturation with sodium chloride. Subsequent evaporation of the applied chloroform served to provide the desired monocyanomonocarboxylic acid in 60 yield. A 10 mM solution of sebacic acid dinitrile in 0.1 M phosphate buffer at pH 7 containing 20 dioxane was treated with the mononitrilase analogously as described in Example 1. The reaction product isolated as described in Example 2 was shown to be the desired monocyanomonocarboxylic acid by comparison with an authentic specimen of this compound. A yield of 70 was achieved. 1,4 dicyanobenzene 10 mM in a phosphate buffer 0.1 M, pH 7 containing 20 dioxane was treated with the mononitrilase analogously as described in Example 1. The progress of the enzyme catalyzed conversion was monitored by analyzing, using HPLC, the reaction mixture at 15 minutes intervals. The reaction was stopped by acidification with 1 M hydrochloric acid when conversion to the desired monocyanomonocarboxylic acid was judged to be optimal whereupon work up analogously as described in Example 1 furnished the desired product in 65 yield. 3,3 dimethylglutaric acid dinitrile was treated with the mononitrilase analogous to the procedure described in Example 1 to provide 3,3 dimethyl 4 cyanobutyric acid in 85 yield. 3 methyl 3 hydroxyglutaric acid dinitrile was treated with the mononitrilase analogously as described in Example 2 to provide the desired 3 methyl 3 hydroxy 4 cyanobutyric acid in 65 yield. 3 methyl 3 aminoglutaric acid dinitrile was converted in manner analogous to that described in Example 7 to provide 3 ethyl 3 amino 4 cyanobutyric acid in 55 yield. Glutaric acid dinitrile was treated in manner analogous to that described in Example 9 to provide the corresponding monoamidomonocyano compound in 95 yield. Sebacic acid dinitrile was converted to the corresponding monoamidomonocyano derivative in manner analogous to that described in Example 9. A yield of 75 was achieved. 3 methyl 3 hydroxyglutaric acid dinitrile was treated with the mononitrilase analogously as described in Example 9 to provide 3 methyl 3 hydroxy 4 cyanoglutaric acid amide in 80 yield. A mononitrilase preparation generated as described in Example 9 was suspended in a 3 aqueous solution of sodium alginate. The resulting suspension was transferred dropwise to an aqueous 0.1 M calcium chloride solution. The resulting pellets were stirred in the calcium chloride solution for 3 hours and, subsequently, washed with several portions of water containing 0.9 of sodium chloride. The immobilized mononitrilase was then packed into a column and an aqueous solution containing adiponitrile 0.4 M and ammonium bicarbonate 5 mM, pH 7.5 was passed through the resulting enzyme reactor. Samples of the eluent from the reactor were analyzed by HPLC by the method used in Example 9 and the flow through the reactor was adjusted to secure a yield of the desired monoamidomonocyano compound of 95 . A nitrilase preparation was made available from NCIB 12067 analogously as described in Example 1. The resulting enzymatically active cells were suspended in a 30 mM solution of adipodinitrile in 10 mM phosphate buffer which was stirred efficiently at room temperature. The progress of the hydrolytic reaction was monitored by HPLC which indicated a yield of the monoamido compound in 97 yield. An enzyme preparation prepared as described in Example 14 was suspended in 10 mM phosphate buffer to which pure adipodinitrile was added until a two phase system of nitrile and water phase was achieved. The mixture was then efficiently stirred in order to emulsify the dinitrile in the aqueous enzyme containing phase. Aliquots of the reaction mixture were analyzed as indicated in Example 9. A 76 yield of the desired monoamide was achieved after work up in the usual manner. Using an enzyme preparation furnished as described in Example 14, malonic acid dinitrile was converted into the corresponding monocyanomonocarboxylic acid in a manner analogous to that described in Example 3. Using an enzyme preparation as described in Example 14 and the procedure outlined in Example 6, 3,3 dimethyl 4 cyanobutyric acid was prepared in 70 yield.