# OPTOELECTRONIC PANEL AND METHOD OF MAKING THE SAME

## Claims
Elektrooptische Flüssigkristalleinrichtung mit

## Description
The present invention relates to an optoelectronic panel which has at least a liquid crystal display device and a photo detecting device formed on a common substrate. The invention also pertains to a method for the manufacture of such a panel. Heretofore there has been proposed a display panel which employs m x n where n 1 and m 1 liquid crystal display devices D₁₁ to D In this display panel, a liquid crystal element C With such a display panel, an image display can be provided by driving the liquid crystal elements at the intersections of selected ones of row lines x₁ to x The conventional display panel employs insulated gate FETs as the nonlinear elements. The manufacture of the insulated gate FET calls for many steps using as many as six to eight photo masks. Accordingly, the conventional display panel cannot be fabricated with high production yield, with ease and at low cost. Furthermore, there has been proposed a write panel which employs m x n pressure sensitive elements K₁₁ to K With such a write panel, by a pressurized write thereon by a pen or similar means, the coordinates of its locus on the write panel can be output on the row and column lines X₁ to X It is difficult, however, to press the pressure sensitive elements under the locus with a predetermined value, and the pressure sensitive elements are easily fatigued and are relatively low in response speed. Accordingly, the conventional write panel is defective in that the coordinates of a locus of a pen or the like cannot be output on the row and column lines with high reliability and at high speed. Moreover, there has not been proposed a highly useful panel which functions both as a display panel and as a write panel. It is frequently necessary to employ separate display and write panels in order to obtain both functions. It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide an improved optoelectronic panel whereby the panel comprises both means to display information and means for optical input of information. It is a further object of the invention to provide optoelectronic panels of this kind which can be made more cheaply and reliably than existing optoelectronic panels of this kind. The present invention provides a liquid crystal electro optical device comprising a pair of substrates, at least one of which is transparent, a liquid crystal layer disposed between said pair of substrates wherein a plurality of picture elements are defined in said liquid crystal layer, a plurality of switching devices formed on one of said substrates for switching said plurality of picture elements, and photosensitive devices formed on one of said substrates for reading in optical information input from outside the panel, wherein said switching devices are composed of a non single crystal semiconductor diode. In certain preferred embodiments of the invention the non single crystal semiconductor diode has a non single crystal NIN, NN N, NP N, NIPIN, PIP, PP P, PN P, or PINIP laminate structure. In the preferred embodiment of the invention the non single crystal semiconductor diodes and the photosensitive devices are formed on a common substrate. In the preferred embodiment of the invention, the photosensitive devices each comprise at least one non single crystal semiconductor photo diode of the same structure as the non single crystal semiconductor diode of the switching device of the liquid crystal picture element. The photo diode passes a photocurrent that depends on the intensity of the light incident on the photo diode. The non single crystal semiconductor diodes of the switching device and the photosensitive device can be manufactured more easily and with higher production yield than the insulated gate FET s used as the nonlinear elements in conventional liquid crystal display devices. Accordingly, the optoelectronic panel of the present invention can be fabricated with good yield, with ease and at low cost. In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, the liquid crystal display device has at least one liquid crystal element, across which a drive signal is applied via a nonlinear element which is a first non single crystal semiconductor diode, as described above. The photo detecting device has at least one photo diode and a second non linear element connected in series with the photo diode. The photo diode is a second non single crystal semiconductor diode which has a non single crystal semiconductor laminate member of an NIN, PIP, PIN or NIP structure. The second non linear element is a third non single crystal semiconductor diode which has the same structure as does the first non single crystal semiconductor diode used as the nonlinear element in the liquid crystal display device. The photo diode produces a photo detecting signal corresponding to the intensity of light directed thereto. The photo detecting signal is led out through the second non linear element to outside from the photo diode. Other objects, features and advantages of the present invention will become more fully apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. Figs. 1 to 5 illustrate an embodiment of the optoelectronic panel of the present invention, in which a substrate 1 has an insulating surface. The substrate 1 is transparent and formed of, for instance, alkaline free glass. The substrate 1 has arranged thereon in a matrix form m x n which m 1 and n 1 conductive layers C₁₁ to C On the substrate 1 is formed, for instance, 100 µm wide conductive layer D On the conductive layer D The non single crystal semiconductor laminate member B Furthermore, the substrate 1 has formed thereon, for example, 100 µm wide non single crystal semiconductor laminate member Q The non single crystal semiconductor laminate member Q The non single crystal semiconductor laminate layer Q The conductive layers C₁₁ to C The substrate member 7 is formed, for example, as follows Next, the first conductive layer is subjected to a known patterning process using a first mask, providing the conductive layers C₁₁ to C Next, a first non single crystal semiconductor laminate member, which will ultimately form the non single crystal semiconductor layer laminate members B₁₁ to B In my experiment, a glow discharge was produced over the substrate 1 at a high frequency of 13.56 MHz in an atmosphere containing silane SiH₄, phosphine PH₃ or diborane B₂H₆ and hydrogen, with the substrate temperature held in the range of 200 to 250 C. As a result of this, a first n or p type micro crystalline silicon layer, which had a conductivity of 10 ² to 10⁵ Ωcm ¹ and contained hydrogen as a recombination center neutralizer, was deposited 30nm to 100nm thick on the substrate 1. Next, only silane, or silicon fluoride SiF₄ or SiF₂ or hydrogen silicon fluoride H₃SiF or H₂SiF₂ and hydrogen was discharged into a plasma, by which a second i type non single crystal silicon layer was deposited 0.2 to 1 µm thick on the n type layer. After this, a third n or p type layer similar to the first n or p type layer was deposited by the same method on the second i type non single crystal silicon layer, thus obtaining the first laminate member having the n or p i n or p structure. By the use of diborane B₂H₆ or phosphine PH₃ for the formation of the second i type layer of the n or p i n or p structure, the laminate member can be formed as an n or p p n or p or n or p n n or p structure. Furthermore, a fourth n or p type layer similar to the abovesaid first n or p type layers is deposited on the substrate 1 through the same method, and then a fifth i type layer similar to the second i type layer is formed on the fourth n or p type layer through the same method. Next, silane, diborane or phosphine and hydrogen are discharged into a plasma, by which a sixth p or n type non single crystal silicon layer is deposited on the fifth i type layer. Following this, a seventh i type layer similar to the fifth i type layer is deposited by the same method on the sixth p or n type layer. After this, an eight n or p type layer similar to the fourth n or p type layer is deposited by the same method on the seventh i type layer, thus obtaining the second laminate member having the n or p i p or n i n or p structure. Moreover, a ninth p or n type layer similar to the sixth p or n type layer is deposited by the same method on the substrate 1, a tenth i type layer similar to the fifth or seventh i type layer is deposited by the same method on the ninth p or n type layer and an eleventh n or p type layer is deposited by the same method on the tenth i type layer, obtaining a p or n i n or p structure. A laminate member made up of such a p or n i n or p structure can be obtained by repeating the above mentioned steps. Next, the first non single crystal semiconductor laminate member is subjected to a known patterning process using a second mask, providing a plurality n of second non single crystal semiconductor laminate members which extend on the n conductive layers D₁ to D Next, a third non single crystal semiconductor laminate member, which will ultimately form the non single crystal semiconductor laminate members Q₁ to Q In my experiment, a glow discharge was produced over the substrate 1 at a high frequency of 13.56 MHz in an atmosphere containing silane SiH₄, methyl silane Si CH₃ H After the formation of the third non single crystal semiconductor laminate member, a second conductive layer which would ultimately form the conductive layer 6a of the conductive layers F₁ to F Next, the second and third conductive layers, the third non single crystal semiconductor laminate member and the second non single crystal semiconductor laminate member are patterned by a known method through a third mask into the conductive layers F₁ to F Another substrate member 11, which is different from the aforementioned substrate member 7, is produced. The substrate member 11 has, on a substrate 12 corresponding to the substrate 1, a conductive layer H The substrate member 11 is disposed upside down by a suitable support means not shown in opposing relation to the top of the substrate member 7 in parallel thereto. In this instance, the columns of the conductive layers C A space defined by the substrate members 7 and 11 is filled with liquid crystal 13. In the structure described above in conjunction with Figs. 1 through 5, a part 2a of the conductive layer C The part 2b of the conductive layer C The reason for which the diode U The liquid crystal element L The part 4a of the conductive layer D A part 21 of the non single crystal semiconductor layer laminate member Q The diode U According to the arrangement described above with respect to Figs. 1 through 5, the electrodes E1 of the liquid crystal display devices M Therefore, according to the arrangement described above in connection with Figs. 1 to 5, since the liquid crystal element L Furthermore, by irradiating the photo diode W It will be apparent that the above embodiment should be construed as merely illustrative of the present invention and should not be construed as limiting the invention specifically thereto and that various modifications and variations may be effected without departing from the scope of the invention as claimed.