# IMPROVED PIROXICAM CONTAINING ANTIINFLAMMATORY COMPOSITIONS

## Claims
Entzündungshemmende Zusammensetzung, die umfaßt

## Description
The present invention is concerned with improved antiinflammatory compositions which employ antiinflammatory piroxicam, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof particularly the ethanolamine salt , in combination with bronchodilator pirbuterol, minor tranquilizer diazepam, or antihypertensive trimazosin. The generic names used here and elsewhere herein are from the USAN and the USP Dictionary of Drug Names, 1961 1981, Griffiths et al., ed., U.S. Pharmacopeial Convention Inc., Rockville, Md., 1984, have subsequently been assigned and published as official USAN names, and or appear in the Merck Index 10th Edition. Gastrointestinal irritation, including ulcers, is a side effect commonly associated, to one degree or another, with antiinflammatory agents. In many cases, individuals requiring such antiinflammatory treatment are precluded from enjoying the benefits thereof because of their susceptibility to such side effects. The combination of piroxicam with one or another of the medicinal agents defined above permits desirable antiinflammatory therapy while preventing or ameliorating said gastrointestinal irritation or ulcers. Acetaminophen has been previously reported to reduce the ulcerogenicity of aspirin Sugers et al., J. Pharm. Pharmacol. 30, 84 1978 ibid. 31, 840 1979 and Adv. Prost. Thromb. Res. 8, 1547 1980 , or of acidified aspirin Konturek et al., Gut 23, 536 1982 . However, indomethacin reversed the protective effect of acetaminophen when given with acidified aspirin loc. cit. . In later studies, it was reported that acetaminophen reduced the ulcerogenicity of indomethacin and aspirin, but Bronchodilators salbutamol albuterol , phenylephrine and isoproterenol, but Antidepressant doxepin has also been reported to have gastric antisecretory activity and to be as effective as cimetidine in the treatment of duodenal ulcers in humans Hoff et al., Curr. Med. Res. Opin. vol. 6, supplement 9, page 36 1980 Scand. J. Gastroent. 16, 1041 1981 . It has also been reported that doxepin shows antiulcer and antisecretory activity in rats and dogs and that it significantly reduced the ulcerogenic potential of indomethacin, diclofenac and aspirin in water immersion restraint stressed rats Leitold et al. Arch. Pharmacol. 316 supplement , R50, abstract 199 1981 Leitold et al., Advances in Experimental Ulcer, Umehara and Ito, editors, ICEU, Tokyo pp. 27 36 1982 Arzneim Forsch Drug Res. 34, 468 1984 . Major tranquilizer and antipsychotic chlorpromazine has been reported to reduce indomethacin induced gastric ulcers in rats Kasuya et al. Phospholipids have also been reported to reduce gastrointestinal distress damage to the mucous membrane, gastric ulcer formation when combined with nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents, particularly phenylacetic or phenylpropionic acid derivatives such as ibuprofen, naproxen, diclofenac and flurbiprofen Ghyczy et al., U.S. Patent 4,369,182 1983 , as have antiulcer pirenzepine Leitold et al., Therapiewoche 27, pp. 1532 1548 1977 German Patent Application 2,708,520 and histamine H₂ antagonist gastric acid antisecretory, antiulcer compounds such as ranitidine, cimetidine and 1 methyl 5 3 3 1 piperidinylmethyl phenoxy propylamino 1H 1,2,4 triazole 3 methanol, which have been previously combined with indomethacin and other antiinflammatory agents for this purpose. See, for example, U.K. Patent Applications 2,105,193 and 2,105,588 and Lovelace, U.S. Patent 4,230,717. Concurrently filed European patent application EP A 0178124 describes improved antiinflammatory salts of piroxicam, including those with trimazosin, doxepin, N demethyldoxepin, pyridoxine, isoproterenol and pirbuterol. The present invention concerns an improved antiinflammatory composition which comprises an antiinflammatory amount of piroxicam, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof particularly the ethanolamine salt , in combination with a piroxicam induced gastric irritation and ulcer inhibiting amount of a compound selected from pirbuterol, diazepam and trimazosin and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof except diazepam . The antiinflammatory agent of the present invention, piroxicam, is known. For example, The Merck Index 10th Ed., 1983 contains a monograph concerning piroxicam no. 7378 , as does the Physicians Desk Reference PDR , 38th Ed., pp. 1556 1557 1984 . The preferred ethanolamine salt of piroxicam is specifically disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,434,164. The compounds of the present invention which we have found to inhibit piroxicam induced gastric irritation and ulcers are also known compounds. Pirbuterol is a bronchodilator marketed or to be marketed around the world in the form of its dihydrochloride and monoacetate salts. See The Merck Index 10th Ed., monograph no. 7364. Its early synthesis and utility as a bronchodilator is disclosed in U.S. Patents 3,700,681 3,763,173 3,772,314 and 3,786,160. Alternative and generally improved syntheses are found in U.S Patents 3,948,919 4,011,231 and 4,031,108 Luxembourg Patent 79564 and European Patent Applications 58069, 58070, 58071 and 58072. More recently, pirbuterol has also found utility in the treatment of congestive heart failure U.S. Patent 4,175,128 . Diazepam is a widely prescribed minor tranquilizer The Merck Index 10th Ed., monograph no. 2967 PDR 38th Ed., pp. 1671 1674 . Trimazosin The Merck Index 10th Ed., monograph no. 9506 is an antihypertensive agent, marketed or to be marketed around the world as a hydrochloride salt, which is structurally related to prazosin. The clinical value of the present improved formulation in inhibiting piroxicam induced gastric irritation and ulcers is reflected by appropriate animal studies. Typical experimental protocols, in which the ability of the test compound to prevent or reduce piroxicam induced gastric lesioning was determined, are found in the specific Examples below. The present invention is readily carried out. The piroxicam or its salt is dosed in a mammal, particularly man, in the range of 0.1 to 1 mg kg day. The second medicinal agent can be dosed separately, in which case the latter will be employed in an amount within but generally lower in the dosage range and according to dosage regimens frequency, routes and compositions as specified for their alternative utility in the prior art, for example, in references cited above or further cited in said references. Preferably and conveniently, the piroxicam and a gastric irritation and ulcer inhibiting agent of the present invention are co administered in a single, combined formulation. This can be in a form suitable for parenteral administration, but is preferably in a form suitable for oral administration. The proportion of each drug in the combined dosage form will be in the ratio of the total daily dosage of each drug when dosed alone. The combined drugs will be dosed in single or divided doses. Single daily dosage will be most preferred in those cases where the In the preferred oral route of dosage, the amount of piroxicam or salt equivalent for an average adult patient will generally be in the range of 5 50 mg day in combination with an amount of the second medicinal agent generally sufficient to inhibit gastrointestinal irritation or ulcers which could otherwise be induced by the piroxicam in patients susceptible to this side effect. The combined compounds are administered alone or in further combination with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or diluents. For oral use, suitable pharmaceutical carriers include inert diluents or fillers, thereby forming dosage forms such as tablets, powders, capsules, and the like. These pharmaceutical compositions can, if desired, contain additional ingredients such as flavorings, binders, excipients and the like. For example, tablets containing various excipients, such as sodium citrate, are employed, together with various disintegrants such as starch, alginic acid and certain complex silicates, together with binding agents such as polyvinylpyrrolidone, sucrose, gelatin and acacia. Additionally, lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate, sodium lauryl sulfate and talc are often useful for tabletting purposes. Solid compositions of a similar type may also be employed as fillers in soft and hard filled gelatin capsules. Preferred materials therefor include lactose or milk sugar and high molecular weight polyethylene glycols. The present invention is illustrated by the following examples. Adult male specific pathogen free rats weighing 140 160 grams of the CD strain Sprague Dawley were obtained from Charles River Breeding Laboratories Kingston, N.Y. . The animals were acclimated for approximately one week and tested when they reached a body weight of 200 225 grams. The rats were fasted for 16 hours and randomized into groups consisting of 8 to 20 animals which were normalized with regard to their average body weight. Gastric ulcers were induced in the animals by orally dosing them with a single 100 mg kg dose of piroxicam in 2 ml. of aqueous 0.1 methylcellulose pH 6.8 . Those animals receiving a second medicinal agent separately received the second drug in an additional 2 ml. of the same medium at about the same time. Six and one half hours later, the animals were sacrificed by cervical dislocation and autopsied. The stomachs were surgically removed, dissected along the greater curvature and rinsed with cold water. The stomachs were individually scored for both linear and punctate lesions. The total number of lesions was used for scoring purposes. The data obtained from each group of rats was analyzed after calculation of the mean number the standard error of total gastric lesions. The values obtained were also compared to the controls which received only piroxicam by the two tailed Student s T Test for non paired data. The protective effect of the second medicinal agent against piroxicam induced ulcers is shown in Table I. These data show that pirbuterol and diazepam each significantly reduce piroxicam induced gastric lesions in the healthy fasted rat. According to the preceeding Example, gastric ulcers were induced by a single dose of 100 or 120 mg. kg. of the ethanolamine salt of piroxicam. Test groups received various doses of various medicinal agents as shown in Table II. These data show that the test compounds showed a significant reduction in gastric lesions induced by the ethanolamine salt of piroxicam in healthy, fasted rats. The following ingredients are combined in the following proportions by weight The mixture is thoroughly blended to form a uniform powder. The powder, in measured volumes corresponding to 300 mg. by weight, is compressed into tablets containing the desired potency of each active ingredient. The following ingredients are combined in the following proportions by weight The mixture is thoroughly blended so as to obtain a uniform powder. The resultant mix 700 mg fill weight is filled into hard gelatin capsules of a suitable size so as to obtain capsules of the desired potency. Equivalent proportions of piroxicam ethanolamine salt 23.7 and pirbuterol monoacetate 23.4 are combined with cornstarch and magnesium stearate and filled into hard gelatin capsules in like manner to obtain capsules containing the same potency of each active ingredient. The following ingredients are combined in the following proportion by weight The mixture is blended to a uniform powder and filled 250 mg fill weight into hard gelatin capsules of a suitable size to obtain capsules of the desired potencies. The following ingredients are combined in the following proportions by weight The mixture is thoroughly blended to form a uniform powder. Measure volumes of the powder, corresponding to 150 mg. by weight, are compressed into tablets containing the desired potency of each active ingredient. The following ingredients are combined in the following proportions by weight The mixture is thoroughly blended so as to obtain a uniform powder. The resultant mix 700 mg fill weight is filled into hard gelatin capsules of a suitable size so as to obtain capsules of the desired potency in each drug.