# Method of control for chemical vapor deposition.

## Abstract
Chemical vapor deposition of multiple element mat erials is controlled through the addition of a control gas to the reaction chamber. In one embodiment in the chemical vapor deposition of the compound TaSi₂, a less desirable com pound may be formed, viz, Ta₅Si₃. By adding HCl as a control gas, those reaction which result in the least HCl as a reaction product are favored. In this case, the reaction which results in TaSi₂ is favored, resulting in the deposition of the desirable TaSi₂. The method is also applicable to the chemical vapor deposition of mixtures such as p or n type doped polysilicon. Other embodiments are disclosed.

## Claims
I claim 1. A method of controlling chemical vapor deposition of multiple element materials, characterized by the steps of a providing a vapor deposition chamber, b providing source materials in the chaniber having different source vapor decomposition rates wherein a plurality of different reactions are possible during deposition, and c adding a control gas to the chamber during deposition to favor one or more predetermined ones of the different reactions. 2. The method of claim 1 characterized in that the control gas of step c is produced as a product of at least some of the plurality of the different possible reactions. 3. The method of claim 2 characterized in that the step c of adding the control gas favors one or more of the predetermined reactions in which the least amount of the control gas is produced as a product thereby. 4. The method of claim 1, 2 or 3 characterized in that the different source materials comprise silane, tantalum chloride and hydrogen and in which the control gas comprises hydrochloric acid. 5. The method of claim 4 characterized in that the favored predetermined reaction produces saturated tantalum silicide. 6. The method of claim 5 characterized in that the reaction takes place at a temperature of from about 600 C to about 65O0C. 7. The method of claim 1, 2 or 3 characterized in that the different source materials comprise silane, arsenic chloride and hydrogen and in which the control gas comprises hydrochloric acid and hydrogen wherein the favored predetermined reaction provides n type polysilicon having a predetermined dopant profile. 8. The method of any one of claims 3 7 characterized in that the reaction takes place at a substantially fixed temperature. 9. The method of claim 8 characterized in that the substantially fixed temperature coqprises about 600 C to about 65O0C.

## Description
METHOD OF CONTROL FOR CHEMICAL VAPOR DEPOSITIONBackground Of The Invention The present invention relates to chemical vapor deposition, and more particularly, to a method of controlling such a deposition involving multiple element materials. Chemical vapor deposition is a well known technique which involves the vaporization and chemical reactions of materials, followed by their deposition on a substrate.Although this technique offers several advantages which make it desirable for use in semiconductor processing applications, the technique exhibits several undesirable characteristics. One such undesirable characteristic is that the technique is difficult to control in applications involving deposition of multiple element materials. For example, the chemical vapor deposition of mixtures, such as arsenic doped polysilicon, or compounds, such as tantalum silicide, are difficult to control because the source vapors of the constituents do not decompose at the same rate. In this connection, in the chemical vapor deposition of doped polysilicon, the different decomposition rates of the constituents, viz, polysilicon and the dopant, e.g., arsenic, result in an undesirably large variation in dopant concentration in the deposition.This problem is exacerbated by the common process of establishing a multi zone furnace wherein the temperature across the reaction chamber is chosen to optimize the polysilicon deposition, e.g., 5 00C 600 C 650 c. Referring to the chemical vapor deposition of tantalum silicide, the constituents typically include Silane SiH4X, tantalum chloride TaC15 and hydrogen H2 carrier gas. As a result of the different decomposition rates of these constituents, although tantalum silicide in the form ofTaSi2 is desired because of its low resistivity, the less desirable form of Tarsi is often formed. Further inforeation on the chemical vapor deposition of tantalum silicide can be found in U.S.Patent No. 4,359,49D, entitled METHOD FOR LPCVD CO DEPOSITION OF METAL AND SILICON To FORMMETAL SILICIDE issued to Fairchild Camera InstrumentCorporation on November 16, 1982, hereby incorporated by reference. The difficulties involved in such multiple element chemical vapor deposition are currently handled to some extent by a fortuitous choice of temperature and or constituent gases. Where such choices do not exist or provide unacceptable results, post deposition heating cycles may be required to effect a further reaction of the deposited film. However, to date none of these techniques has provided acceptable control for such multiple element chemical vapor depositions. In addition, current techniques are desirable inasmuch as they generally add complexity and can result in structural film problems during reaction as well as add cost to the conventional chemical vapor deposition technique. Accordingly, it is a general object of tnis invention to provide an improved method of chemical vapor deposition. Another object of this invention is to provide such as method for controlling the chemical vapor deposition of multiple element materials to secure desired reaction products. Another object of this invention is to provide such as method which can be conveniently applied to the conventional chemical vapor deposition technique. Summary of the Invention It is a general object of the present invention to provide an improved method of chemical vapor deposition. This and other objects are attained, in accordance with one aspect of the invention by a method of controlling chemical vapor deposition of multiple element materials, comprising the steps of a providing a vapor deposition chamber, b providing source materials in the chamber having different source vapor decomposition rates wherein a plurality of different reactions are possible during deposition, and c adding a control gas to the chamber during deposition to favor one or more predetermined ones of the different reactions. particularly pointing out and distinctly claiming that which is regarded as the present invention, the objects and advantages of this invention can be more readily ascertained from the following description of preferred embodiments, when read in conjunction with the accompanying Drawing, in which Figure 1 is a partially broken away schematic representation of a conventional chemical vapor deposition chamber suitable for use in practicing the method of the present invention. Figure 2A and 2B are representations of Auger analysis wherein Figure 2A shows the spectra without the use of the control gas of the present invention and Figure 2B shows the spectra with the use of the control gas of the present invention.Detailed DescriPtion Of The Invention Referring initially to Figure 1, an exemplary conventional chemical vapor deposition apparatus suitable for use in practicing the method of the present invention is generally designated 10. The apparatus 10 includes a reaction chamber 12, coupled to a pump 14 through a valve 16. The chamber 12 is coupled to a three zone furnace ISA, 18B, lBC, for establishing a desired temperature gradient across the chamber 12. The chamber 12 includes a support 20 which receives the substrates, e.g., wafers 22, which will receive the chemical vapor deposition. The apparatus 10 includes a heated zone 24 and flow control values 26, 28. As discussed previously, in the chemical vapor deposition of tantalum silicide, the typical result is the formation of the less desirable compound of Ta5Si3, instead of the desirable compound of TaSi2. More particularly, in this chemical vapor deposition, there are only two probable chemical reactions, viz 1 6SiH4 lOTaCi5 13H2 2Ta5Si3 50HC1 2 4SiH4 2TaCl5 2TaSi2 l0HCl 3H2 Under the standard reaction conditions of about 600 0C tc about 650 C across zones 18A, 188, 18C, reaction 1 is favored, resulting in the deposition of Ta5Si3 instead of the desirable compound of TaSi2. However, I have found that, by the addition of HCL gas to the reaction stream in the chamber 12, those reactions which result in the leastHC1 as a reaction product are favored. Thus, the addition of HC1 favors reaction 2 , resulting in the deposition of the desirable TaSiz, instead of the less desirable Ta5Si3. The above technique can also be used to control the chemical vapor deposition of mixtures, such as arsenic doped polysilicon.In this connection, the doped polysilicon is a mixture, the uniformity of its deposition being dependent upon the rates of the following reactions in the reaction chamber 12, viz 3 SiH4 Si 2H2 4 2AsCl3 3H2 2As 6HC1 At a fixed temperature, e.g., 6O00C, the rate of reaction 3 can be controlled by the silane SiH4 to hydrogen H2 ratio. The rate of reaction 4 can be controlled by the amount of HC1 added to the reaction stream in the chamber. In this connection, although the parameters are dependent upon reactor geometry, I have found that the addition of HC1 in the forK of 15 408 of the total gas inject volume was effective in producing the desired result.Such a doping level is generally referred to as n type doping Although the method of the present invention has been described with exemplary materials, the method is suitable for deposition of other multiple element materials. For example, in the case of the chemical vapor deposition of p type polysilicon, the following reaction pairs may be employed in place of reaction 4 shown above 5 2 BC13 3H2 2B 6HC1, or 6 2 BBr3 3H2 2B 6HBR In each of the reactions 5 , 6 , the element boron provides a p type dopant in the deposited polysilicon.As discussed above in connection with reaction 3 and 4 , the rate of reaction 3 is first controlled. Then, the rates of reactions 5 , 6 can be controlled in accordance with the method of the invention by adding the product thereof, i.e., BC1 or HBR, to the reaction chamber. Similarly, the method of the present invention can be employed with compounds other than tantalum silicide.Indeed, the method is generally applicable to other materials having a multiplicity of stable compounds. For example, one such exemplary material is molybdenum boride which exists in a multiplicity of stable compounds, i.e.,MoB2, MoB, Mo2. For such an application, the molybdenum may be provided in the form of a chloride, e.g., MoC15, or a carbonyl, e.g., Mo CO 6, while the boron may be in the form of a trichloride, e.g. By13. In accordance with the method of the present invention, a controlled flow of HC1 would control the reaction balance to secure the desired molybdenum boride. Further, although the method of the present invention has been described with the use of HC1 as the control gas, other materials e.g., HBR, HF, may be substituted therefor depending upon the reactions involved. However, in accordance with the present invention, the control gas selected for a given application must be capable of favoring one or more predetermined ones of the different possible reactions during the chemical vapor deposition. More particularly, the control gas selected should be one which is produced as a product of at least some of the different possible reactions. Then, in accordance with the method of the present invention, adding such a control gas favors one or more of the reactions in which the least amount of the control gas is produced as a product. The method of the present invention can be further illustrated by the following Examples it being understood that the invention is not limited to the details recited therein Example 1 A tantalum silicide deposition was performed in accordance with the teachings of U.S. Patent No. 4,359,490, previously incorporated by reference, wherein the deposition is in the form of the silicide, Ta5Si3, which is then reacted with an underlying polysilicon layer at elevated temperatures to form the desired silicide, TaSi2. The following conditions were present during the deposition I. An initial polysilicon layer was deposited with a reaction temperature of 6000C to 625 0C across the reaction chamber. The pressure in the reaction chamber was 0.300 torr. Silane was injected at the rate of 94 scc min. The deposition time was 30 minutes. The resultant polysilicon film was approximately 30000A thick. II. The silicide in the form of Ta5Si3 was then deposited at the same reaction temperature. The pressure in the reaction chamber was 0.275 torr and silane was injected at the rate of 70 scc min. TaC15 was used as the source and maintained at a temperature of 170 C. The deposition time was S minutes. The resultant Ta5Si3 film is about 10000A thick. An Auger depth profile of the structure is shown inFigure 2A. III. The layered Ta5Si3 polysilicon structure was then reacted at 1000 0C to form the TaSiz layer. Example 2 The initial polysilicon layer was deposited as in step I of Example 1. By injecting HC1 into the reaction chamber, the TaSi2 form of the silicide was directly deposited, without the further reaction of step III. During this reaction, the temperature was 600 0C to 6250C across the reaction chamber with a pressure of 0.275 torr. Silane was injected at 70 scc min. and HCL control gas was injected at 50 scc min. TaC15 was used as the source and maintained at a temperature of 1700C. The deposition time was 5 minutes. The resulting films were examined by Auger analysis as shown in Figure 2B and their peak heights compared to standard TaSi2 samples to establish that the deposited films were TaSi2. The deposited films were also annealed at 1000 C and re examined through Auger analysis in which no changes in their peak heights were shown. Example 3 Since the addition of HC1 appears to control the rate of TaC15 breakdown, it would appear to be a useful technique for control of the breakdown of other chloride type sources.One use for this technique would be in controlling dopant uniformity of LPCVD doped polysilicon. It is well known that preparing doped polysilicon, i.e., arsenic doped polysilicon by simply introducing a dopant gas into the reactant injection does not uniformly dope the deposited film because of a very rapid breakdown of the source dopant. This depletes the reactant source resulting in extremely heavy doping at the injection site and virtually none down the tube. By introducing a reaction product into the reactant injection, it would be possible to adjust the source dopant breakdown rate to that of the polysilicon resulting in dopant uniformity throughout the reactor geometry. Proposed Conditions Arsenic doped Polysilicon Furnace Temperature 600 625 0C Reactor Vacuum 0.300 Torr Silane Inject 90 scc min AsCl3 Source Temperature 30 0c Hydrogen Inject 20 scc min HC1 Inject 20 scc min Since one of the reaction products of the AsCl3 breakdown under these conditions will be HC1, the addition of HC1 to the reaction would tend to slow the breakdown of the source resulting in uniform doping of the deposited polysilicon film from the SiH4 silane source. While the present invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments thereof, it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that various changes and modifications may be made without departing from the invention in its broader aspects. It is contemplated in the appended claims to cover all such variations and modifications of the invention which come within the true spirit and scope of my invention.