# Water heating appliance e.g. a domestic boiler.

## Abstract
The water heating appliance of the invention has a vertical container which may be connected to a central heating boiler 12 and has in its interior a sleeve 27 with closed bottom 28 and open top, a tap water coil 7 being provided between the container wall and the sleeve. Thereby colder water from the boiler 12 is entered through the sleeve bottom 28 and the coil 7 is always in contact with the hottest water, so that the tap water temperature is kept better constant.

## Claims
C L A I M S 1.Hot water appliance, comprising a vertical container 8 connected in the circuit of a central heating boiler 12 , a coil 7 for tapping hot water being provided within the container 8 , one end of said coil being connected to a water mains 20 and being provided adjacent to the container wall, characterized in that a sleeve 27 with open top has been provided within the container 8 parallel to the vertical container wall, at the other side of the coil 7 than the container wall, said sleeve extending to close to the container top and is closed at the under side by a bottom 28 , the central heating water supply conduit 9 opening through said bottom within the sleeve 27 in the container 8 , the central heating water discharge conduit 25 being connected to the container bottom. 2. Appliance according to claim 1, characterized in that the inlet end and the outlet end of the coil 7 are provided at the under side of the container 8 .

## Description
Title Water heating appliance, e.g. a domestic boiler.The invention relates to a water heating appliance, comprising a vertical container, which is connected in the circuit of a central heating boiler, a heating coil being provided within the container for tapping hot water, one end of said coil being connected to a water mains, said coil being provided adjacent to the container wall. A similar appliance is known from NL A 8300867. In that the container is filled with boiler water temperature 75 800C and has a substantial capacity e.g. 40 liters , this appliance permits tapping hot water at constant temperature e.g. 450C during a long period, via an automatic mixing device. Said period of course depends on the quantity of water which is tapped per unity of time. It has now appeared that the tap water temperature may be maintained still better constant if care is taken that the water in the container having the highest temperature is always directly adjacent to the coil. For it is that the water temperature in the container is only at the same value all over the container in a condition of equilibrium, if for considerable time no water has been tapped. In summer the central heating boiler is not operative for heating radiators and therefore, if heat supply to the water boiler is necessary, initially colder water will be supplied thereto by the central heating boiler than the water already present in the container. It must be avoided that this water directly contacts the coil. This is achieved according to the invention in that a sleeve with open top end is provided within the container, parallel to the vertical container wall, at the other side of the coil than the container wall, said sleeve extending up to close to the upper side of the container and is closed at the under side, the central heating boiler water supply conduit opening through the closed under side within the sleeve in the container, the central heating boiler dj.c c1large conduit being connected to the container bottom. Thereby a constrained circulation is obtained through the container within the sleeve upwardly and on the outside of the sleeve downwardly, the supplied central heating boiler water becoming sufficiently mixed with the container contents before the water reaches the coil. Moreover, the space containing the coil is strongly reduced by the sleeve and the container wall relative to the remainder of the container,whereby the circulation velocity along the coil and thereby the heat transmission increases. The invention is specially of importance by the tendency of the later years to reduce the boiler capacity of a central heating installation for houses. This has been reduced e.g. from 20 to 5 kw in connection with the smaller heat requirement as a result of better isolation of the houses. Thereby it takes longer before, after a period in which the burners have not been operative, the central heating boiler water is again at normal temperature. Preferably in known manner the direction of movement of heated and heating water must be contrary. Thereto the appliance is constructed such that the inlet end and the outlet end of the coil are provided at the underside of the container. The invention will be further explained below with reference to the drawing, showing an embodiment, given as an example, of the appliance according to the invention. Fig. 1 shows schematically the water circuit of the hot water appliance connected to a central heating boiler. Fig. 2 is a schematic longitudinal section through the appliance, having supply and discharge points for the water. The circuit as shown in figure 1 comprises a cold water supply line 20, e.g. connected to a water mains, said line having a control valve 1, a check valve 2 and a stop valve 3 and leading to the appliance, e.g. a domestic boiler, said line being connected to the heat exchanger as formed by a coil 7 of said appliance, the water reservoir or container of which bears the reference number 8.The coil leaves the container at its underside and is connected to a line 21 which is also connected to the output of an automatic mixing valve or automatic mixing device 6, the input of which is connected by a conduit 22 to the cold water supply line 20. The line 21 constitutes the tap line of the appliance. The automatic mixing device 6 also has a hot water output connected to a conduit 23, from which hot tap water may be obtained from the appliance, e.g. water which is not mixed with cold water. The supply of hot central heating boiler water to the container 8 of the appliance is obtained with a conduit 9 extending through the under wall of the container and opening into the bottom 28 of a sleeve 27, which has an open top. Said conduit 9 is connected through a three way valve 10 and a conduit 24 to the output of the central heating boiler 12, while also radiators 11 are connected to said boiler through t. conduit 24 and the three way valve 10. The heating water in the container 8 leaves the container at the underside through a conduit 25, which opens in the container bottom in the area between the sleeve 27 and the wall of the container 8. Said conduit is connected through a pump 13 to the water input of the boiler 12.The return conduit 26 of the radiators 11 are likewise connected to the return line 25 The primary or heating water leaving the boiler through the conduit 24 has a maximum temperature which is adjustable through the boiler thermostat 24 and said temperature e.g. has the value of 90 C. The temperature of the heating water in the oontainer 8 is then e.g. 7590 C. The ocole, container 8 is shower on an enlarged rale in figure 2 together with the different lilies connected thereto. Within the container the sleeve 27 is provided, said sleeve having a bottom 28. in said bottom from the lower side of tile boiler the central heating water supply line 9 opens. The coil 7 is provided, as seen in the radial direction, substantially half between the wall df the container 8 and the vertical wall of the sleeve 27. The cold water supply end of the coil entors, in the embodiment shown, the under side cf the container R. from the upper end of the coil 7 an end portion 29 extends within the sleeve 27 downwardly, passes in sealed manner through the bottom 28 Thereof and subsequert y passes the container bottom.The return line 25 between the container and the boiler likewise leaves the container 4 at the underside. In that the water supplied from the boiler to the container b, which water may be colder than the water present in the container after an inoperative period, is entered through the bottom 28 of the sleeve 27, it does not contact the coil 7.A mixture with the water present in the container is generated.Because water is discharged from the container through line 25 outside the sleeve,the water within the sleeve slowly rises upwardly and subsequently moves downwardly between the sleeve and the container wall in contact with the coil 7. Then the water has reached at the upper end of the sleeve the average of the water temperature in the container. In that colder water is heavier than warmer water, also due to that fact warmer water will be present at the top of the container. The warmest water is concentrated by the sleeve on the coil, which improves the heat transmission thereto. The flow cross section outside the sleeve is a couple of times smaller than that within the sleeve, whereby the flow velocity along the coil is proportionally increased. In the embodiment shown in figure 2, moreover, the water in the coil moves in counterflow with that in the container outside the sleeve, whereby likewise the heat transmission efficiency is increased. The temperature measuring element or sensor 30a of a thermostat 30 is provided substantially at half the height of the container 8 against its outer wall. It has appeared that this is the best position in order to keep the tap water temperature constant.Said thermostat is electrically connected to the central heating boiler. If the heat energy taken by the supplied mains water is from the heating wateiNegual to or greater than the energy supplied by the central heating boiler,that boiler remains continuously operative. The new appliance may be connected to all existing and new central heating boilers, which are suitable for connection with a hot water storage reservoir. The appliance according to the invention permits tapping water having a constant temperature during a long period, during which the temperature differences are very small, smaller than 1 C. Due to the presence of the automatic mixing device the tap water temperature is not influenced by a somewhat higher or lower temperature of the primary heating water. It is to be noted that when above a central heating boiler is mentioned, also a different heating source may be used.Particularly e.g. connection to a city heating system or to a heat pump may be practised, in which also the superheat of the compressed gasses in the primary circuit may be used for reaching a temperature of 70 750C.