# Martensitic stainless steels for seamless steel pipe.

## Abstract
Martensitic stainless steels that enable the fabrication of high strength seamless steel pipe suited for use in oil well pipe and pipeline tubing by means of a Mannesmann plug mill or Mannesmann mandrel mill process, without the formation of defects during production. The heat workability of these steels, which contain no more than 0.30 by weight of carbon and from 11 to 14 by weight of chromium, and have a ferrite content of a least 40 at 1200 C, has been vastly improved by holding the phosphorus and sulfur levels therein to no more than 0.020 and 0.003 by weight, respectively. Optional elements are nickel, copper, molydenum, col umbium, vanadium, calcium and rare elements. Boron may be present from 0.001 to 0.008 by weight, aluminium from 0.005 to 0.10 by weight.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Martensitic stainless steels for use in seamless steel pipe containing not more than 0.30g by weight of C, not more than 1.0 by weight of Si, not more than 2.0 by weight of Mn, 11 1 by weight of Cr, 0.005 0.10 by weight of Al, and not more than 0.10 by weight of N, wherein the amount of P is held to no more than 0.02 by weight and the amount of S to no more than 0.003 by weight, the remainder thereof being substantially Fe, said steels having a ferrite content of not more than 40 by weight at 120O0C. 2. Martensitic stainless steels for us, r seamless steel pipe containing not more than 0.30 by weight of C, not more than 1.0 by weight of Si, not more than 2.0 by weight of Mn, 11 14 by weight of Cr, 0.005 0.10 by weight of Al, and not more than 0.10 by weight of N, and containing also one or more elements selected from the group consisting of up to 3.5 by weight of Ni, up to 2 by weight of Cu, up to 2.5 by weight of Mo, up to 0.10 by weight of Nb, and up 3 10 by weight of V, wherein the amount of P is held to no more than 0.02 by weight and the amount of S to no more than 0.003 by weight, the remainder being substantially Fe, said steels having a ferrite content of not more than 40 by weight at 12000C. 3. Martensitic stainless steels for use in seamless steel pipe containing not more than 0.30 by weight of C, not more than 1.0 by weight of Si, not more than 2.0 by weight of Mn, 11 14g by weight of Cr, 0.005 0.10 by weight of Al, and not more than 0.10 by weight of N, and containing also one or more elements selected from the group consisting of the rare earth elements,Ca, and B, the amount of the rare earth elements ranging from 4x S of S to 2or of S , that of Ca from 1x of S to 10x ofS , and that of B from 0.001 to 0.0085 by weight, wherein the amount of P is held to no more than 0.02 by weight and the amount of S to no more than 0.003 by weight, the remainder being substantially Fe, said steels having a ferrite content of not more than 40S by weight at 12000C. 4. Martensitic stainless steels for use in seamless steel pipe containing not more than 0.30 by weight of C, not more than 1.0Z by weight of Si, not more than 2.0 by weight of Mn, ll lgZ by weight of Cr, 0.005 0.10 by weight of Al, and not more than 0.102 by weight of N, and containing one or more elements selected from the group consisting of up to 3.5 by weight of Ni, up to 2 by weight of Cu, up to 2.5 by weight of Mo, up to 0.10 by weight of Nb, and up to 0.10 by weight or less of V, as well as one or more elements selected from the group consisting of the rare earth elements, Ca, and B, the amount of the rare earth elements ranging from 4x J of S to 20x of S , that of Ca from 1x of S to 10x of S , and that of B from 0.001 to 0.008 by weight, wherein the amount of P is held to no more than 0.02 by weight and the amount of S to no more than 0.003 by weight, the remainder being substantially Fe, said steels having a ferrite content of not more than YOX at 1200 C.

## Description
TITLE OF THE INVENTION Martensitic Stainless Steels for Seamless Steel Pipe BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to martensitic stainless steels used in seamless steel pipe such as oil well pipe and pipeline tubing.Martensitic stainless steels, two representative grades of which are SUS 410 and SUS 420 Japan Industrial Standard JIS designations , have excellent corrosion resistance in highly corrosive environments containing C02. These materials are thus regarded as excellent candidates for use in oil well pipe, geothermal well pipe, and pipeline tubing. The strength of oil well pipe is normally required to least equivalent to that of American Petroleum Institute API standard L80 grade steel yield strength 80 ksi . Pipeline tubing should generally have a strength at least equal to that ofAPI standard X60 grade steel yield strength 60 ksi . Martensitic stainless steels having a variety of strengths can be obtained by the application of specific types of heat treatment, such as quench tempering, normalizing tempering, or just tempering. However, it is known that the resistance to stress corrosion cracking of martensitic stainless steels in CO2 containing environments falls when tempering is performed at a temperature of less than 6000C. We tempered the martensitic stainless steels in Table 1 at various temperatures and cut out test pieces 120 mm long by 20 mm wide by 3 mm thick. These pieces were subjected to U bend tests at a bending radius of 15 mm in a 3.5 aqueous solution of NaCl heated to 800C and having a carbon dioxide partial pressure of 1 atmosphere.As shown in Table 1, each of these steels developed stress corrosion cracking when tempered at less than 6000C, but none demonstrated stress corrosion cracking when tempered at 6000C or more a cross in Table 2 indicates the presence of stress corrosion cracking an open circle O indicates the absence of stresscorrosion cracking . Hence, to achieve good resistance to stress corrosion cracking in C02 containing environments, an important property of martensitic stainless steels, it is clear that the steel must be tempered at a temperature of at least 6000C. Table 1EMI2.1 tb Type SEP of SEP steel SEP Tempering SEP temperature SEP C SEP tb SEP 450 SEP 500 SEP 550 SEP 600 SEP 650 SEP 700 SEP 750 tb 0.25C SEP SEP 13Cr SEP X SEP X SEP X SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP tb 0.2C SEP SEP 13Cr SEP X SEP X SEP X SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP tb 0.15C SEP SEP 13Cr SEP X SEP SEP X SEP SEP X SEP SEP O SEP SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP tb 0.10C SEP SEP 13Cr SEP X SEP X SEP X SEP 0 SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP tb o SEP SEP 13Cr SEP SEP 3Ni SEP SEP O.5Mo SEP X SEP X SEP X SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP tb 0.03C SEP SEP 13Cr SEP SEP 2.5Ni SEP SEP 1Mo SEP X SEP X SEP X SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP tb 0,03C SEP SEP 13Cr SEP SEP 2.5Ni SEP SEP 1Mo tb 0.005C SEP SEP 13Cr SEP SEP 3Ni SEP SEP 0.5Mo SEP X SEP X SEP X SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP tb As is well known, the strength of martensitic stainless steels decreases as the ferrite content of the steel structure increases.When the ferrite content at 12000C exceeds 40 , the ferrite content in the normal quenching or normalizing temperature range of 900 10000C rises to 202 or more, making it difficult to achieve the high strength required in linepipe tubing and oil well pipe by tempering at 6000C or more.Accordingly, to allow tempering to be performed at the temperatures of 6000C or more necessary to impart good resistance to stress corrosion cracking, and at the same time satisfy the high strength requirements for use in pipeline tubing and oilwell pipe, martensitic stainless steels must be composed of not more than 404 ferrite at 12000C. Compositions in which the austenite phase which becomes martensite at room temperature exists in combination with a ferrite phase comprising 20 30 of the composition have the worst hot workability. When the amount of ferrite is about 40S, the hot workability is about the same as that of austenitic singlephase steels which become martensitic single phase steels at room temperature or below the Ms point . The hot workability rises sharply with increasing ferrite content above this point.Thus, because martensitic stainless steels with a ferrite content of 110 or less at 12000C have inferior hot workability, their use in the production of high strength seamless steel pipe by the processes described below tends to result in defects, complicating pipe manufacture. Seamless stainless steel pipe is generally produced either by an inclined rolling method such as the plug mill or mandrel mill process, or by a hot extrusion method, of which the Ugine Setournet and Erhart pushbench processes are typical. However, certain types of martensitic stainless steels namely, those with a ferrite content of zoo or less at 12O00C , have poor hot workability. When seamless steel pipe is manufactured from these steels by a cross rolling process such as the plug mill process or the mandrel mill process, defects arise on both the outside and inside walls of the pipe during piercing of the billet on a piercing mill. For this reason, seamless pipe made of this type of steel is generally produced by a hot extrusion process, such as the Ugine Sejournet process. However, when a hot extrusion process is employed and the billet directly pierced a process known as direct piercing , a billet length 5 7 times the diameter results in a greater eccentricity in the wall thickness of the pipe. This makes it difficult to produce long pipe. A partial solution to this problem is provided by a process for producing long pipe that makes use of what is known as the expansion method. This method consists of mechanically opening a guide hole in the center of the billet, then extending the hole. However, even with the use of this expansion method the billet length is still limited to only about 15 billet diameters. Another problem concerns the glass lubricant used in the Ugine Sejournet hot extrusion process. This must be peeled off following rolling, a process that is both time consuming and costly. The limits on billet length inherent in the Ugine Sejournet and other hot extrusion processes make it impossible to raise productivity above a certain level. Moreover, the use of short billets inevitably results in a low yield and is therefore also disadvantageous in terms of cost. n contrast, both the plug mill and mandrel mill processes involve piercing the billet on a piercing mill that utilizes the Mannesmann effect. These processes permit the manufacture of longer pipe than is possible by the Ugine Sejournet and other hot extrusion processes. These processes are thus known to be advantageous in terms of productivity and cost. However, as indicated above1 certain types of martensitic stainless steels are not suitable for use in the production of seamless pipe on account of the formation of defects during pipe manufacture. The present invention was arrived at following careful consideration of the problems described above. The object of this invention is to enable the practical application of the plug mill and mandrel mill processes in martensitic stainless steels, particularly those having a ferrite content of 401 or less at 12000C, for which the manufacture of seamless steel pipe by the plug mill and mandrel mill processes has hitherto been complicated by the formation of defects during pipe fabrication, and by making it possible to use these processes, to enable the manufacture of seamless steel pipe from this type of martensitic stainless steel at high productivity and low cost. To recapitulate, it has hitherto been possible to manufacture seamless steel pipe made of martensitic stainless steel by the plug mill process or the mandrel mill process without the formation of defects during fabrication when the ferrite content is greater than 40X at 12000C. However, when steels having a ferrite content of 40 or less at 12000C are used, numerous defects arise on the inside and outside walls of the pipe during manufacture, and cracking at the ends of the pipe is also common. This has made it difficult to use these processes in the production of seamless steel pipe. After carefully investigating the causes of such defects in steels with a ferrite content of 40S or less, we discovered that impurities such as P and S in the steel exert a large influence on the formation of these defects.Further examination revealed that by holding the level of S to 0.003 or less and the level of P to 0.020 or less, seamless steel pipe can be produced on a practical basis by both the plug mill process and the mandrel mill process.This discovery led ultimately to the present invention. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The invention contemplates martensitic stainless steels for use in seamless steel pipe containing not more than 0.30 by weight of C, not more than 1.0 by weight of Si, not more than 2.0S by weight of Mn, 11 14 by weight of Cr, 0.005 0.10 by weight of Al, and not more than 0.10S by weight of N, the remainder being Fe and unavoidable impurities, of which the impurities P and S are held respectively to levels of not more than 0.02S and 0.003 by weight, the ferrite content of these steels being no more than 40X by weight at 12000C. This invention also contemplates martensitic stainless steels for use in seamless steel pipe having the contents of C,Si, Mn, Cr, Al, and N noted above, and containing one or more elements sElected from the group c6nsisting of up to 3.5 by weight of Ni, up to 2 by weight of Cu, up to 2.5 by weight ofMo, up to 0.10S by weight of Nb, and up to 0.10 by weight of V, the remainder being Fe and unavoidable impurities, of which the impurities P and S are held at the levels cited above, the ferrite content of these steels being no more than r109 by weight at 12000C. The present invention furthermore contemplates martensitic stainless steels for use in seamless steel pipe having the abovestated levels of C, Si, Mn, Cr, Al, and N, and containing one or more elements selected from the group consisting of the rare earth elements, Ca, and B, the amount of the rare earth elements ranging from 4x of S to 20x of S , that of Ca from 1x ofS to 10xtS of S , and that of B from 0.001 to 0.008 by weight, the remainder being Fe and unavoidable impurities, of which the impurities P and S are held at the levels cited above, the ferrite content of these steels being no more than 40X by weight at 12000C. Lastly, the invention also contemplates martensitic stainless steels for use in seamless steel pipe having the abovestated levels of C, Si, Mn, Cr, Al, and N, and also containing one or more elements selected from the group consisting of Ni,Cu, Mo, Nb, and V, as well as one or more elements selected friom the group consisting of the rare earth elements, Ca, and B, these all being present in the ranges indicated above, the remainder being Fe and unavoidable impurities, of which the impurities P and S are held at the levels cited above, the ferrite content of these steels being no more than 40 by weight at 12000C. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION The martensitic stainless steels of the present invention shall now be described in detail. We shall begin by explaining the reasons for each of the limits placed on the contents of the basic constituents in the steels of the invention. Carbon is necessary for strength. However, because corrosion resistance declines at a carbon content in excess of 0.30fob, the upper limit on carbon content has been set at 0.30 . Chromium markedly increases corrosion resistance in CO2containing environments. The addition of at least 11 is intended to prevent pitting and crevice corrosion. However, this element also is ferrite forming. The addition of more than 14 therefore increases the amount of ferrite, making it difficult to achieve the desired strength under the heat conditions tempering temperature necessary to preserve resistance of the steel to stress corrosion cracking. The range in the chromium content was thus set at 11 14X. Silicon is effective as a deoxidizer and should preferably be included at a level of at least 0.2S. A content of more than 1.0 reduces toughness, so we set an upper limit of 1.0S. Manganese acts to strengthen the steel and improve toughness. Therefore a content of not less than 0.5 is desirable. However, no further improvement in strength and toughness can be gained from the addition of more than 2.0 .Hence, the Mn content was set at not more than 2.0 . Aluminum acts as a deoxidizer, reducing the level of oxygen in the steel by oxygen fixation, enhancing the hot workability.The stabilizing effects of Al addition are not observed at less than 0.005 these effects reach a saturation level at 0.10 . The content of Al was thus limited to a range of from 0.005 to 0.10 . Nitrogen increases the strength and corrosion resistance of the steel up to a concentration of O.10X, beyond which additional improvement is not observed. For this reason, the N content was set at not more than 0.10 . Sulfur is present in the steel as an undesirable impurity that severely reduces the hot workability of the steels in the present invention. This adverse effect is particularly large during piercing of the billet on a piercing mill when the seamless pipe is fabricated by the plug mill process or the mandrel mill process. A sulfur level in excess of 0.003 makes it difficult to produce scratch free seamless pipe, which is why the S content must be held to no more than 0.003 . P is another impurity unavoidably present in steels. It produces a marked deterioration in the hot workability of the steel at high temperatures of 12000C and above. This element causes scratch formation on the inside wall of the tube during piercing of the billet on a piercing mill. Piercing without scratch formation is difficult at a P level above 0.02X, and so this must be held to 0.02 or less. In addition to the above basic constituents, the martensitic stainless steels of the present invention may also contain one or more elements selected from the group consisting of Ni, Cu, Mo,Nb, and V, and one or more elements chosen from the group consisting of rare earth metals, Ca, and B. The reasons for the limits set to the contents for each of these are given below.Nickel Ni increases corrosion resistance. The addition of more than 3.5 , however, produces no further improvement in corrosion resistance. Because Ni is expensive, the upper limit of addition was set at 3.5 .Molybdenum Mo enhances the strength and corrosion resistance of the steel. At levels of under 0.01 , this effect is not fully exhibited, while the addition of more than 2.5 produces no corresponding increase in effect. Because Mo too is a highpriced metal, Mo addition was limited to a range of from 0.01 to 2.5 .Niobium Nb increases steel strength, but is ineffective at levels of under 0.01 . The addition of over 0.10 fails to produce additional improvement. The range of Nb addition was thus set at 0.01 0.10 .Vanadium V increases the strength of the steel, but is not effective at levels below 0.1 . Further improvement does not result from the addition of more than 0.10 . The range in the content of V was thus set at 0.01 0.10S. Copper Copper improves the strength and corrosion resistance of the steel. However, because the addition of more than 2.0S reduces hot workability, the upper limit on copper addition was set at 2.0S. Rare earth metals REM , calcium The rare earth metals and calcium are powerful sulfide forming elements. The formation of the sulfides of rare earth metals or calcium reduces the amount of sulfur in solid solution within the steel, thereby improving the hot workability of the steel. However when the amount of rare earth elements is four times as great as the sulfur content wt or the amount of calcium less than equivalent to the amount of sulfur, this effect is minor. On the other hand, when the level of rare earth elements is greater than 20 times, or the level of calcium greater than 10 times, the amount of sulfur, this effect reaches a saturation point and the oxides and sulfides of these elements may even have the opposite effect of increasing surface defects.For these reasons, we limited the amount of rare earth metals to a range of from 4x SS to 20x S , and the amount of calcium to a range of from 1xtSS to 10x SS . Boron The addition of a trace amount of boron improves the hot workability of the steel. This effect does not arise at a level of less than 0.001 . However, the addition of more than 0.008 of boron has the opposite effect of reducing the hot workability at temperatures of 12000C and over. We therefore limited boron addition to a range of 0.001 0.008 . We have also set a ferrite content for the steels of the present invention of 40X or less at 12O00C. This is because, as we have seen above, even the plug mill and mandrel mill processes can be used to manufacture seamless pipe without hindrance or defects from steels having a ferrite content of more than 40X at 12000C.The ferrite content at 12000C is defined by Eq. 1 below Ferrite content I 195x C 185x N 18 Ni 6x Cu 5x Mn 5x Si 12x SCr 16x V 5x Mo 6x SNb 5x Ti 50x XA1 120 1 We shall now describe a method for fabricating seamless steel pipe using the martensitic stainless steels of the present invention. First, a bloom obtained by continuous casting or blooming. is rolled into a round billet. This billet is then heated to a given temperature, preferably from 1200 to 12500C, and pierced and rolled by means of the Mannesmann plug mill process or theMannesmann mandrel mill process. When the Mannesmann plug mill process is employed, the billet is first pierced on a piercer, then rolled by an elongator, a plug mill, a reeler and a sizer, in that order. When the Mannesmann mandrel mill process is used, the billet is first pierced on a pierce then rolled respectively on a mandrel mill and hot stretch reducer Following this, the pipe is heat treated either in a batch type furnace or by induction heating. This heat treatment may consist of quenchtempering, normalize tempering, or simply tempering. This gives steel pipe of the desired strength. In the case of oil well pipe, it is more common to first increase the wall thickness at the tube ends by upsetting, then hea, treat. Table 2 shows the chemical constituents and whether or not defects were formed for a number of examples illustrating the present invention and several comparative examples. In each case, a billet having a diameter of 175 mm was heated to 12300C and pierced on a piercer to form a tube with an outside diameter of 185mm and a wall thickness of 19.76mm. The inside and outside walls of the tube were examined. An X in the table denotes that defects such as scratches or cracks were found on the tube wall. An open circle O indicates that no defects were observed, or only minor faults of no practical consequence noted. The ferrite shown in Table lshowstheferrite contents at 12000 which were calculated using Eq. 1 . If the computed value was negative, this was indicated in the table as 0. The rare earth metals used in the examples shown in Table 2 consisted primarily of cesium approx. 50 . The P and S levels of specimens 21 26 comparative examples in Table 2 all exceed the upper limits of the ranges set in the present invention. Defects were observed in each of these specimens. Similarly, the levels of the rare earth metals, B, and Ca in specimens 27 29 comparative examples all exceeded the upper limits defined above. Defects were again noted in each of these. As we have indicated in the preceding explanation, the martensitic stainless steels for use in seamless steel tube of the present invention raises the hot workability, and especially the hot piercability, of steels having ferrite contents of 40S or less at 1200 C, despite the difficulty previously encountered in manufacturing seamless pipe from such steels by a plug mill or a mandrel mill process. This is achieved by holding down the P and the S contents of the steel. As a result, seamless steel pipe need no longer be manufactured by a hot extrusion process, and can now be manufactured free of defects by a plug mill or a mandrel mill process.Because this permits the use of plug mill and mandrel mill processes in the production of seamless pipe from this type of steel, higher productivity can be achieved, along with increased yield and reduced costs. This invention also provides martensitic stainless steels for use in seamless steel pipe wherein, in addition to restricting the levels of P and S, one or more elements selected from the rare earth metals, calcium, and boron are added, further increasing the hot piercability of the steel. This permits the manufacture of defect free seamless steel pipe by means of a mandrel mill or plug mill process. Table 2EMI15.1 tb SEP Specirren SEP C SEP h SEP e SEP I SEP 1 SEP Consttuenrs SEP Yrl tb SEP No. SEP C SEP Si SEP Mn SEP P SEP S SEP Ni SEP Cr SEP Mo SEP Cu SEP Nb SEP V SEP Al SEP N SEP REM SEP Ca SEP 3 SEP ferrite tb SEP Defects tb SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.51 SEP 0.52 SEP 0.016 SEP 0.001 SEP SEP 13.8 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.01 SEP 0.or1 SEP SEP SEP SEP 0 SEP Q tb SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 0.15 SEP 0.55 SEP 0.62 SEP 0.01 SEP 0.002 SEP SEP 13.5 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.01 SEP 0.025 SEP SEP SEP SEP 8.3 SEP 0 tb SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 0.19 SEP 0.113 SEP 0.63 SEP 0.008 SEP 0.002 SEP SEP 13.1 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.015 SEP 0.024I SEP 0 SEP Q tb SEP SEP SEP 0.0j1 SEP SEP 13.1 SEP SEP SEP 0.05 SEP SEP 0.01 SEP 0.027 SEP SEP SEP SEP 2.3 SEP Q tb SEP p SEP 5 SEP 0.1to SEP 0.25 SEP 0.67 SEP 0.013 SEP 0.002 SEP SEP 11.8 SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.12 SEP 0.02 SEP 0.025 SEP SEP SEP SEP 0 SEP Q tb SEP 6 SEP 6 SEP 0.15 SEP 0.36 SEP 0.53 SEP 0.015 SEP 0.001 SEP SEP 13.3 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.02 SEP .026 SEP SEP SEP SEP 9.9 SEP 0 tb SEP I7 SEP 0.1to SEP 0. SEP 0.70 SEP 0.018 SEP 0.002 SEP SEP 12.8 SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.02 SEP 0.027 SEP 0.021 SEP SEP SEP 1.0 SEP Q tb 0 tb Ca SEP 8 SEP 0.15 SEP 0.113 SEP 0.56 SEP 0.011 SEP 0.001 SEP 0.5 SEP 12.7 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.01 SEP 0.02 SEP SEP SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP a SEP 0 tb SEP 9 SEP 0.13 SEP 0. 5 SEP 0.52 SEP 0.01to SEP 0.002 SEP SEP 12.2 SEP SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.02 SEP 0.023 SEP SEP SEP SEP 0 tb SEP io SEP 0.1LI SEP 0.25 SEP 0.51 SEP 0.010 SEP 0.001 SEP SEP 13.1 SEP 1.0 SEP SEP SEP 0.2 SEP 0.01 SEP 0.021 SEP SEP 0.005 SEP SEP 13.3 SEP tb SEP 0 tb SEP Ca SEP 1 1 SEP 0.1ZI SEP 0.27 SEP 0.75 SEP 0.016 SEP 0.002 SEP SEP 13.1 SEP 2.0 SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.01 SEP 0.020 SEP SEP SEP 0. SEP 14.3 SEP 0 tb SEP 0 tb SEP 0 tb SEP rr SEP 0.10 SEP 0.75 SEP 0.77 SEP 0.011 SEP 0.003 SEP SEP 13.1 SEP 2.2 SEP 0.5 SEP SEP 0.1 SEP 0.01 SEP 0.032 SEP SEP SEP SEP 30.3 tb SEP 11 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.30 SEP 0.51 SEP 0.019 SEP 0.001 SEP 1.5 SEP 13.2 SEP 0. SEP SEP 0.02 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.01 SEP 0.021 SEP SEP SEP SEP 0 tb SEP o.sl SEP 0.52 SEP 0.61 SEP 0.015 SEP 0.001 SEP 3.1 SEP 13.3 SEP 0.5 SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.02 SEP 0.022 SEP SEP SEP SEP 0 SEP Q tb SEP 15 SEP 0.03 SEP 0.36 SEP 0.68 SEP 0.018 SEP 0.002 SEP 2.5 SEP 13.2 SEP 0.6 SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.02 SEP 0.052 SEP SEP SEP SEP 0 SEP Q tb SEP 16 SEP 0.03 SEP 0.26 SEP 0.70 SEP 0.016 SEP 0.002 SEP 2.4 SEP 13.1 SEP 1.0 SEP 0.7 SEP SEP SEP 0.01 SEP 0.076 SEP 0.011 SEP SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 0.35 SEP 0.35 SEP 0.63 SEP 0.019 SEP 0.003 SEP 0.2 SEP 13.2 SEP SEP 0.15 SEP SEP SEP 0.02 SEP 0.030 SEP SEP 0.003 SEP 0.00 SEP O SEP 0 tb SEP 0.70 SEP 0.36 SEP 0.70 SEP 0.019 SEP 0.003 SEP 0.2 SEP 13.1 SEP SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 SEP SEP 0.03 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.015 SEP 0.003 SEP 0.00 SEP 0 SEP Q tb SEP 19 SEP 0.19 SEP 0.38 SEP 0.69 SEP 0.018 SEP 0.003 SEP 0.10 SEP 13.3 SEP 0.5 SEP 0.12 SEP 0.03 SEP SEP 0.02 SEP 0.021 SEP 0.1D16 SEP 0.003 SEP SEP 0 SEP 6 tb SEP 20 SEP 0.005 SEP 0.90 SEP 0.016 SEP 0.003 SEP 3.a SEP 12.8 SEP 0.3 SEP 0.10 SEP SEP SEP 0.02 SEP 0.010 SEP 0.022 SEP SEP 0.00 SEP 0 tb SEP 13.1 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.005 SEP SEP 13.1 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.01 SEP 0.025 SEP SEP SEP SEP 0 SEP x tb SEP C tb SEP 0 tb SEP 1 SEP 22 SEP 0.18 SEP 0.52 SEP 0.52 SEP 0.032 SEP 0.006 SEP SEP 13.2 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.01 SEP 0.021 SEP SEP SEP SEP 0 SEP x tb SEP 0 tb SEP b SEP 23 SEP 0.19 SEP 0.0 SEP 0.nS SEP 0.022 SEP 0.010 SEP SEP 13.1 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.01 SEP 0.02it SEP SEP SEP SEP 0 SEP x tb SEP 12.2 SEP 0.25 SEP 0.72 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.005 SEP SEP 12.2 SEP 0. SEP SEP 0.03 SEP SEP 0.02 SEP 0.023 SEP SEP SEP SEP 0 SEP x tb SEP SEP 25 SEP 0.111 SEP 0.36 SEP 0. SEP 0.028 SEP 0.001 SEP SEP 13.2 SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.06 SEP 0.01 SEP 0.028 SEP SEP SEP SEP 7.8 SEP x tb SEP 0 tb SEP 1 SEP 26 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.66 SEP 0.022 SEP 0.008 SEP 2.8 SEP 13.2 SEP 0.7 SEP 0.2 SEP SEP SEP 0.02 SEP 0.030 SEP SEP SEP SEP 0 SEP x tb SEP n SEP 27 SEP 0.03 SEP 0.26 SEP 0.61 SEP 0.016 SEP 0.003 SEP 2.5 SEP 13.1 SEP 0.5 SEP SEP 0.02 SEP SEP 0.01 SEP 0.031 SEP 0.10 SEP SEP SEP 0 SEP x tb SEP 0 tb SEP 28 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.35 SEP 0.58 SEP 0.019 SEP 0.002 SEP 1.0 SEP 13.1 SEP 0.2 SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.01 SEP 0.025 SEP SEP SEP 0.0 SEP 0 SEP x tb SEP Ca tb SEP 29 SEP 0.03 SEP 0.41 SEP 0.77 SEP 0.016 SEP 0.002 SEP 2.5 SEP 12.9 SEP 0.5 SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.01 SEP 0.031 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP SEP 0 SEP X tb Rare earth metals