# A TIMING PULSE GENERATOR FOR GENERATING TIMING PULSES SYNCHRONIZED WITH HORIZONTAL SYNCHRONIZING SIGNAL IN VIDEO SIGNAL

## Claims
Zeitimpulsgenerator mit einer Eingangsklemme zum Empfang eines ersten Impulses HP einem Flip Flop 4 , das durch den ersten Impuls HP gesetzt wird und einem Oszillator 1 zum Erzeugen eines zweiten Impulses, der an eine Rückstellklemme des Flip Flops 4 angelegt wird, dadurch

## Description
The present invention relates to a timing pulse generator for generating timing pulses synchronized with a horizontal synchronizing signal which is contained in a TV video signal or another video signal for CRT display. Such timing generator may be used in a superimposing apparatus which superimposes display signals of letters, characters or the like on a video signal and displays them together with a video image on a cathode ray tube. One example of such superimposition is to display the receiving channel number or sound level on a TV program display. Another example is a teletext in which selected one among a plurality of information transmitted from broadcasting station is superimposed on a TV display transmitted under a control of a receiver. A prior art timing pulse generator comprises a generator of clock pulses synchronized with a horizontal synchronized signal which is separated from the video signal, the clock pulses having a frequency of 300 to 400 times of the horizontal synchronizing signal, and a counter counting the clock pulses to define the superimposing position on one scanning line. The position corresponding to the predetermined numbers of the clock signal is the superimposing position. The counter is reset by the horizontal synchronizing signal to recount the clock pulses to determine the superimposing position on the next scanning line. The generator further comprises a timing generator which counts the clock pulses and produces a timing signal such as a readout timing signal to be applied to a memory which stores display elements of the letters or the characters to be displayed on a CRT in superimposition of a video image. The timing generator is also reset by the horizontal synchronizing signal to produce a next timing signal. As mentioned above, the counter and the timing generator are reset by the horizontal synchronizing signal as a gate pulse in the prior art. If the horizontal synchronizing signal includes a spike noise or does not have a sufficient waveform, resetting of the clock counter and the timing generator becomes imperfect, and the counter miscounts the superimposing position and the timing generator misreads the memory, resulted in a disturbance of superimposed letters or characters. A timing pulse generator according to the preamble part of claim 1 is disclosed in GB A 2 093 239. In this known pulse generator short constant width pulses are produced in response to a trigger pulse. However, means for ensuring that the output pulses have a definite minimum length are not disclosed. The object of the present invention is to provide a timing pulse generator generating timing pulses in synchronism with a gate pulse which is not adversely affected by a gate pulse having an insufficient pulse width or by a spike noise. This object is achieved by a timing pulse generator including an input terminal receiving a first pulse, a flip flop being set by the first pulse and an oscillator generating a second pulse which is applied to a reset terminal of said flip flop, wherein an AND circuit receives an inverted signal of said first pulse and an inverted output of said flip flop to control the oscillation of said oscillator. According to the invention the flip flop is used as a wave shaper. The flip flop is set by the gate pulses and reset by second clock pulse produced by first clock pulse. It may be reset by the first clock pulse. Therefore, if the gate pulse becomes low level, the oscillator continues to oscillate until the flip flop is reset, resulting in keeping the wave shaper operation of the flip flop. The circuit arrangement for keeping the wave shaper operation requires only the NAND gate. The timing pulse generator according to the present invention keeps correct operation with a simple circuit arrangement and low cost, even if the horizontal synchronizing signal which is used as the gate pulse is deformed by noise or weekness of the received TV signal. Furthermore, the simple circuit arrangement enables the formation of the circuit as a whole on an integrated circuit chip. The above and further objects, features and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, wherein The conventional pulse generator shown in Fig. 1 is composed of a gated oscillator circuit 40 and a logic section 41. The gated oscillator circuit 40 receives a horizontal synchronizing pulse hereinafter referred to as a gate pulse HP. During the high level period of the gate pulse HP, the oscillator 40 generates clock pulses CK having a repetition frequency of 300 to 400 times higher than that of the gate pulse HP. The oscillator 40 includes a NAND gate 44 having one input end receiving the gate pulse HP, another input end and an output end, an inductor L interposed between the other input end and the output end, a first capacitor C connected between the other input end and a grounding point and a second capacitor C connected between the output end and the grounding point. The logic section 41 includes a clock counter 42 having a clock terminal 45 receiving the clock pulse CK from the output end of the NAND gate 44 and a reset terminal 46 receiving the gate pulse HP and a timing generator 43 having a clock terminal 47 receiving the clock pulse CK from the output end of the NAND gate 44 and a reset terminal 48 receiving the gate pulse HP. The clock counter 42 counts the clock pulse CK for determining the position where the letters and or characters are superimposed. The letters and or characters to be superimposed at the position determined by the clock counter 42 is stored in RAM not shown that is controlled by the timing generator 43. The gate pulse HP is a horizontal synchronizing pulse which is transmitted from the broadcasting station and is feasible to change its phase and to be affected by noise. If the phase of the gate pulse HP is changed, the counter 42 and the timing generator 43 are reset at a wrong timing and the letters and characters are disturbed from being superimposed on the display screen. If the noise is inserted between the gate pulses HP, the counter 42 and the timing generator 43 are also reset at a wrong timing. If the width of the gate pulse HP becomes narrow, the reset of the counter 42 and the timing generator 43 cannot be made sufficiently. The imperfect reset disturbes the counting operation of the counter with a result of disturbed letters and or characters on the display screen, and causes a misreading of the RAM. As a measure for the above mentioned drawbacks, one attempt has been considered to synchronize the gate pulse HP with the clock pulse CK by a wave shaper prior to the application to the reset terminals 46 and 48. The generator 40, however, stops oscillation in response to the low level of the gate pulse HP. Therefore, since the clock pulse CK disappears when the gate pulse HP is at low level, such attempt cannot be a measure. The preferred embodiment of the present invention is shown in Fig. 2 in a form of block diagram. The gate pulse or a horizontal synchronizing pulse is applied to a D input of a D type flip flop 4 which has a Q output, a Referring also to Fig. 3, when the gate pulse HP becomes high level H , the oscillator 1 starts oscillation irrespective of the signal state at the Referring also to Fig. 4, of the width of the gate pulse HP becomes short, the reset of the NAND gate 4 is made by the low level of the gate pulse HP and the descent of the second clock pulse CK2 and the set is made by the high level of the gate pulse HP and the descent of the second clock pulse CK2. Thus sufficient width 100 of the reformed gate pulse HP can be obtained as shown in Fig. 4. If a noise 200 is contained in the gate pulse HP during the period existing no descent of the second clock pulse CK2, any reformed gate pulse is not produced as shown in Fig. 4. This means that there is few chance to produce the reformed gate pulse HP in response to noise. Thus, according to the preferred embodiment of the present invention, a reliable reset of the counter 42 and the timing generator 43 can be maintained irrespective of changes in phase and width of the gate pulse and applied noise. Furthermore, the second clock pulse CK2 may be replaced with the first clock pulse CK1 with removal of the binary flip flop 3, and with application of the clock pulse CK1 to the input of the flip flop 3. This is because, if the gate pulse HP becomes low level L , the oscillator 1 continues to oscillate until the D type flip flop 4 is reset by the first clock pulse CK1. Plural number of the binary flip flops 3 may be connected in series to obtain the second clock pulse CK2. The number of the binary flip flop 3 is determined by the required width of the second clock pulse CK2. Furthermore, the combination of the inverter 5 and the NAND gate 2 may be replaced with an OR gate receiving the gate pulse HP and the reformed gate pulse HP . It is needless to say that the oscillator 1 using an inductor L and capacitors C may be replaced with any oscillator the oscillation of which is controlled.