# Cosmetic and pharmaceutical compositions containing bioemulsifiers.

## Abstract
Soaps and shampoos comprising bioemulsifiers, for example, those produced by Acinetobactar calcoaceticus, are provided. Use of such soaps and shampoos result in beneficial effects to skin and hair.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. In a skin cleansing composition, the improvement which comprises the addition to such composition of about 0.028 by weight to about 0.5 by weight of a microbially derived bioemulsifier, which bioemulsifier predominantly resides at hydrocarbon water interfaces to substantially surround hydrocarbon droplets in hydrocarbon in water emulsions and is characterized by its ability to maintain emulsion stability by effectively preventing coalescence of hydrocarbon droplets. 2. A skin cleansing composition according to claim 1 in which the bioemulsifier is produced by a bacterium of the genus Acinetobacter. 3. A skin cleansing composition according to claim 1 in which the bioemulsifier is produced byAcinetobacter calcoaceticus. 4. A skin cleansing composition according to claim 1 in which the bioemulsifier is produced byAcinetobacter calcoaceticus ATCC 31012. 5. A skin cleansing composition according to claim 1 in which the bioemulsifier is produced byAcinetobacter calcoaceticus NRRL B 15616. 6. A skin cleansing composition according to claim 1 in which the bioemulsifier is produced by Acinetobacter calcoaceticus NRRL 13 15847. 7. A skin cleansing composition according to claim 1 in which the bioemulsifier is produced byAcinetobacter calcoaceticus NRRL 13 15848. 8. A skin cleansing composition according to claim 1 in which the bioemulsifier is produced byAcinetobacter calcoaceticus NRRL B 15849. 9. A skin cleansing composition according to claim 1 in which the bioemulsifier is produced byAcinetobacter calcoaceticus NRRL B 15850. 10. A skin cleansing composition according to claim 1 in which the bioemulsifier is produced byAcinetobacter calcoaceticus NRRL B 15860. 11. A skin cleansing composition according to claim 1 in which the bioemulsifier is a emulsan. 12. A skin cleansing composition according to claim 1 in which the bioemulsifier is B emulsan. 13. A skin cleansing composition according to claim 1 in which the bioemulsifier is a lipoheteropolysaccharide biopolymer. 14. A skin cleansing composition according to claim 1, 3, 4 or 11 in which the bioemulsifier is present in an amount of about 0.04 to about 0.3 by weight of the composition. 15. A skin cleansing composition according to claim 1, 3, 4 or 11, which composition is a bar soap. 16. A skin cleansing composition according to claim 1, 3, 4 or 11, which composition is a liquid soap. 17. In a skin cleansing composition, the improvement which comprises the addition to such composition of about 0.02 by weight to about 0.5 by weight of a viscoemulsan. 18. A skin cleansing composition according to claim 17 in which the viscoemulsan is produced byAcinetobacter calcoaceticus ATCC 31926. 19. A method of improving or eliminating skin conditions selected from the group consisting of dermatitis, acne, psoriasis, eczema and razor burn which comprises washing affected skin with a cleansing agent into which a therapeutically effective amount of a bioemulsifier produced by Acinetobacter calcoaceticus has been incorporated. 20. In a shampoo for cleansing human hair, the improvement which comprises the addition to such shampoo of about 0.02 by weight to about 0.5e by weight of a microbially derived bioemulsifier, which bioemulsifier predominantly resides at hydrocarbon water interfaces to substantially surround hydrocarbon droplets in hydrocarbon ln water emulsions and is characterized by its ability to mafntain emulsion stability by effectively preventing coalescence of hydrocarbon droplets. 21. A shampoo according to claim 20 in which the bioemulsifier is produced by a bacterium of the genusAcinetobacter. 22. A shampoo according to claim 20 in which the bioemulsifier is produced by Acinetobacter calcoaceticus. 23. A shampoo according to claim 20 in which the bioemulsifier is produced by Acinetobacter calcoaceticus ATCC 31012. 24. A shampoo according to claim 20 in which the bioemulsifier is produced by Acinetobacter calcoaceticus NRRL B I 5616. 25. A shampoo according to claim 20 in which the bioemulsifier is produced by Acinetobacter calcoaceticus NRRLB 15847. 26. A shampoo according to claim 20 in which the bioemulsifier is produced by Acinetobacter calcoaceticus NRRL 8 15848, 27. A shampoo according to claim 20 in which the bioemulsifier is produced by Acinetobacter calcoaceticus NRRL B 15849. 28. A shampoo according to claim 20 in which the bioemulsifier is produced by Acinetobacter calcoaceticus NRRL B 15850. 29. A shampoo according to claim 20 in which the bioemulsifier is produced by Acinetobacter calcoaceticus NRRL 8 15860. 30. A shampoo according to claim 20 in which the bioemulsifier is a emulsan. 31. A shampoo according to claim 20 in which the bioemulsifier is B emulsan. 32. A shampoo according to claim 20 in which the bioemulsifier is a lipoheteropolysaccharide biopolymer. 33. A shampoo according to claim 20, 22, 23 or 30 in which the bioemulsifier is present in an amount of about 0.05 to about 0.15B by weight of the shampoo. 34. A shampoo according to claim 20, which shampoo is a baby shampoo formulation. 35. A shampoo according to claim 20, which shampoo is an anti dandruff shampoo formulation. 36. A shampoo according to claim 20, which shampoo is a pearl shampoo formulation. 37. In a shampoo for cleansing human hair, the improvement which comprises the addition to such shampoo of about 0.02 by weight to about 0.5 by weight of a viscoemulsan. 38. A shampoo according to claim 37 in which the viscoemulsan is produced by Acinetobacter calcoaceticus ATCC 31926. 39. A method of improving or eliminating scalp conditions selected from the group consisting of dandruff, psoriasis and eczema which comprises washing hair and scalp with a shampoo into which a therapeutically effective amount of a bioemulsifier produced by Acinetobacter calcoaceticus has been incorporated.

## Description
SOAPS AND SHAMPOOS CONTAINING BIOEMULSIFIERS TABLE OF CONTENTS Page 1. Field of the Invention 2 2. Background of the Invention 2 2.1 Biological Materials in Consumer Products 2 2.2 Microbial Surface Active Compounds 4 3. Summary of the Invention 7 4. Nomenclature 8 5. Detailed Description of the Invention 9 5.1. Microbial Bioemulsifiers 9 5.2. Properties of Emulsans 11 5.3. Soap and Shampoo Compositions 12 5.4. Beneficial Effects of Bioemulsifier Containing Soaps and Shampoos 13 6. Examples 15 6.1. Preparation of Technical Grade Emulsan 15 6.2. Emulsan Formulation for Use in Soaps and Shampoos 17 6.3. Emulsan in Toilet Soap 17 6.3.1. Bar Soap Composition 17 6.3.2. Bar Soap Testing 18 6.4. Effect of Emulsan Containing Soap Bars on Skin Conditions 19 6.4.1. Effect of Emulsan Containing Soap Bars on Acne 19 6.4.2.Effect of Emulsan Containing Soap Bars on Razor Burn 21 6.5 Emulsan in Shampoo 21 6.5.1. Shampoo Base Compositions 21 6.5.2. Shampoo Testing 24 6.6. Effect of Emulsan Containing Shampoo on Scalp Conditions 25 6.6.1. Effect of Emulsan Containing Shampoo on Dandruff 25 6.6.2. Effect of Emulsan Containing Shampoo on Eczema Psoriasis of the Scalp 25 6.7. Conditioning Effects of Emulsan Containing Shampoo 26 6.7.1. Decreased Static Build Up 26 6.7.2. Improved Shine 27 6.8. Effect of Emulsan Containing Shampoo on Mildew 27 SOAPS AND SHAMPOOS CONTAINING BIOEMULSIFIERS 1. FIELD OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to skin and hair care products suitable for cleansing and imparting other beneficial effects to human skin and hair. More particularly, the invention relates to soaps and shampoos containing bioemulsifiers as effective ingredients. 2. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 2.1. BIOLOGICAL MATERIALS IN CONSUMER PRODUCTS Biological materials have been incorporated into numerous consumer products for numerous purposes. For instance, biopolymeric materials, such as polysaccharides, proteins and nucleic acids have been added to products as diverse as paints, foods, skin creams and cleaning agents in which they serve such diverse functions as thickeners, suspending agents, moisturizers and conditioners. Certain specific biological materials have been incorporated into skin and hair care products for human use. For example, chemically modified glycolipids, specifically hydroxypropyl etherified sophorolipid esters, have been used in cosmetic compositions for skin and hair care. The sophorolipids used as starting materials are the products of a yeast, Torulopsis bombicola. The chemicallymodified sophorolipids improve the setting capacity of hair setting lotions and hair sprays and influence the lathering characteristics of shampoos. Hair washed with sophorolipidcontaining shampoos retains a moist finishing touch. These various effects are described in U.S. Patents Nos. 4,297,340 and 4,318,901. The same chemically modified sophorolipids can serve as moisturizing, conditioning and protective agents in skin creams and lotions U.S.Patents Nos. 4,297,340 4,305,961 and 4,309,447l, in stick shaped cosmetics, such as lipsticks and eyeshadows U.S. Patent No. 4,305,929 , and in pressed powder cosmetics U.S. Patent No. 4,305,931 . A microbial biopolymer produced by Bacillus polymyxa has been proposed as a useful ingredient in certain cosmetics and shampoos U.S. Patents Nos. 4,329,448 4,357,423 and 4,393,089 . This biopolymer is a heteropolysaccharide comprising glucose, galactose, mannose, glucuronic acid and fucose. In the foregoing patents it is suggested that such biopolymer can be used in anti dandruff shampoos as a suspending agent for anti dandruff ingredients, in other shampoos and shower washes as a gelling agent, and in hand creams as an emulsion stabilizer. A beer concentrate comprising a mixture of proteins and polysaccharides has been used as an ingredient in shampoos. The beer concentrate acts as a conditioner and also imparts body to hair shampooed with the formulations disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 3,998,761. The use of mono , di and polysaccharides in shampoos has been described inU.S. Patent No. 4,364,837. It is reported that the presence of saccharides in shampoos stabilizes the shampoos and also enhances foam quality. The saccharides thicken the shampoo and act as suspending agents for grooming ingredients in the shampoo. Preferred saccharides were reported to be corn and potato syrups containing glucose and di and polysaccharides of glucose. 2.2. MICROBIAL SURFACE ACTIVE COMPOUNDS Many microbes can utilize hydrocarbon as their sole source of carbon for growth and energy production. The hydrocarbon substrates may be linear, branched, cyclic or aromatic. In order to rapidly assimilate such waterinsoluble substrates, the microbes require a large contact area between themselves and the oil. This is achieved by emulsifying the oil in the surrounding aqueous medium.Hydrocarbon degrading microbes frequently synthesize and excrete surface active agents which promote such emulsification. Some of the microbial surface active and inter facially active agents that have been reported in the literature are listed in Table I. TABLE I MICROBIAL SURFACE ACTIVE COMPOUNDSSTRUCTURAL TYPE PRODUCING MICROORGANISM S Carbohydrates Lipids Trehalose Lipids Nocardia, Mycobacterium, Corynebacterium, Arthrobacter Rhamnose Lipids Pseudomonas aeruginosa Sophorose Lipids Torulopsis spp. Polysaccharide Lipid Candida tropical is, Acinetobacter calcoaceticusAmino Acid Lipids Lipopeptides Bacillus, Streptomyces, Corynebacterium, Mycobacterium Ornithine Lipids Pseudomonas, Thiobacillus, Ag robacterium, GluconobacterPhospholipids Thiobacillus, Corynebacterium, Candid, MicrococcusFatty Acids Neutral Lipids Pseudomonas, Mycococcus, Penicillium, Aspergillus, Acinetobacter, Micrococcus, Cand ida Gutnick et al. discovered that Acinetobacter calcoaceticus ATCC 31012 deposited with the American TypeCulture Collection, Rockville, MD and also known in the literature as RAG 1 produces interfacially active extracellular protein associated lipopolysaccharide biopolymers called emulsans. The emulsans are polyanionic materials.Acinetobacter calcoaceticus ATCC 31012 produces emulsans when grown on ethanol or fatty acid salts U.S. Patents Nos. 4,230,801 4,234,689 and 4,395,354 and B emulsans when grown on crude oil or hexadecane U.S. PatentNo. 3,941,692 . The a emulsans and 5 emulsans, which differ in their respective lipid content, can be derivatized to anO deacylated form called psi emulsans lU.S. Patent No.4,380,5041. The a emulsans, 8 emulsans and psi emulsans can be deproteinized to yield apo emulsans, apo B emulsans and apo psi emulsans, respectively U.S. Patents Nos. 4,311,830 4,311,829 and 4,311,831, respectively . The emulsans exhibit exceptional bioemulsifier activity especially with hydrocarbon substrates which contain both aliphatic and cyclic or aromatic components. In addition to acting as bioemulsifiers, the emulsans are capable of interfering with the adherence of microorganisms to certain surfaces. Recently, Rosenberg et al. Infect. Immun. 39 3 1024 28 1983 1 have shown that emulsan can markedly inhibit the adherence of Acinetobacter calcoaceticus ATCC 31012 and Acinetobacter calcoaceticus BD 413 Taylor and Juni, J. Bacteriol. 81 688 93 1961 andStreptococcus pyogenes M 5, either to human buccal epithelial cells or to octane. The degree of interference with adherence was the same, whether the emulsan was used to prevent binding or added later to desorb already bound bacteria. Gutnick et al. have also reported that a phageresistant mutant of Acinetobacter calcoaceticus ATCC 31012 produces a highly viscous, inactive i.e., nonbioemulsifying derivative of the emulsans which is nevertheless cross reactive with antibodies raised against emulsan Emulsan Production in Acinetobacter RAG in Advances in Biotechnology, Vol. III, Proceedings of the SixthInternational Fermentation Symposium, London, Canada 1980 ,M. Moo Young ed. , pp. 455 4591. 3. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION It is an object of the present invention to provide skin and hair care products with desirable cleansing properties and which impart certain beneficial effects to human skin and hair. It is a further object of the invention to provide soaps with creamy feeling foams and which leave the skin feeling smooth and creamy after use. It is another object of the invention to provide soaps which soothe and or ameliorate certain common dermatological problems such as acne, eczema, psoriasis and razor burn. Still another object of the invention is to provide shampoos with improved degreasing abilities and with enhanced cleansing power for residues left on hair by fixative agents.It is a further object of the invention to provide shampoos which leave hair in a conditioned state after washing and which impart shine to the hair. Another object of the invention is to provide shampoos capable of improving or eliminating such common scalp and hair problems as dandruff, psoriasis eczema of the scalp and static build up following blow drying or combing. The above objects can be achieved by soaps and shampoos comprising microbial bioemulsifiers, preferably lipopolysaccharides produced by certain members of theAcinetobacter genus, in standard soap and shampoo bases. In a preferred embodiment, emulsans produced by Acinetobacter calcoaceticus ATCC 31012 are included in soap and shampoo compositions at a concentration ranging from about 0.04 to about 0.2 by weight. The invention also contemplates the inclusion of emulsans and other microbial bioemulsifiers in consumer products such as body lotions, body creams, hand cleaners, ointments, wound care products, dentifrices and other similar products. 4. NOMENCLATURE The term bioemulsifier1 is defined as any biologically derived substance which, by virtue of any combination of characteristics including, but not limited to, high molecular weight, polymeric nature, highly specific three dimensional structure, hydrophobic and hydrophilic moieties and sparing solubility in hydrocarbons, binds tightly to the hydrocarbon water interface and essentially covers the surface of individual hydrocarbon droplets in hydrocarbon in water emulsions, effectively maintaining discrete droplets and preventing coalescence, and thereby imparting substantial stability to hydrocarbon in water emulsions. An example of a bioemulsifier is a emulsan. The term biosurfactant is defined as any biologically derived substance which reduces the interfacial tension between water and a hydrocarbon and, as a result, reduces the energy requirement mixing energy for creation of additional interfacial area. An example of a biosurfactant is a glycolipid. The term emulsans, which reflects the polysaccharide structure of these compounds and the exceptional bioemulsifier activity of these materials, generically identifies those extracellular microbial protein associated polyanionic lipoheteropolysaccharides produced by Acinetobacter calcoaceticus ATCC 31012 and its derivatives or mutants, which may be subdivided into the aemulsans and the 5 emulsans. The a emulsans are the products of Acinetobacter calcoaceticus ATCC 31012 when grown on either ethanol or fatty acid salts as carbon source and the 5 emulsans are the products produced when the organism is grown on crude oil or hexadecane, as determined under shake flask conditions. The term viscoemulsan is defined as any lipoheteropolysaccharide, derived from a bacterium of the genus Acinetobdcter and immunologically cross reactive with antibodies against an Acinetobacter derived bioemulsifier, which does not exhibit significant bioemulsifier activity, yet, by virtue of any combination of characteristics, including but not limited to, high molecular weight, .polymeric nature and highly specific three dimensional structure, exhibits the ability to increase the viscosity or otherwise alter the rheology of solutions or dispersions in which it is dissolved or suspended, respectively. An example of a viscoemulsan is the emulsan cross reactive material produced by Acinetobacter calcoaceticus ATCC 31926. The term soaps is defined to include, but is not limited to, its common meaning of an alkali salt of a fatty acid, as well as detergents and so called waterless cleaners. The term shampoo is defined to include, but is not limited to, pourable water based shampoos, gel shampoos, cream shampoos and so called dry shampoos. 5. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION 5.1. MICROBIAL BIOEMULSIFIERS The water soluble microbial interfacially active agents for use in the soaps and shampoos of this invention are any microbial substances which function as bioemulsifiers, i.e., substances which, by virtue of such characteristics as large molecular weight, polymeric nature, highly specific three dimensional structure, hydrophobic and hydrophilic nature, and sparing solubility in oil, effectively cover the oil water interface maintaining discrete, individual oil droplets in oil in water emulsions thereby substantially stabilizing emulsions from coalescence.Among the preferred bioemulsifiers are lipoheteropolysaccharide biopolymers produced by bacteria of the genus Acinetobacter and the genus Arthrobacter, and in particular, those produced by strains of Acinetobacter calcoaceticus. Such Acinetobacte r lipoheteropolysaccharide biopolymers include, but are not limited to, polyanionic lipoheteropolysaccharide biopolymers, a emulsans, 5 emulsans, psi emulsans, apo a ernulsans, apo ss emulsans and apo psiemulsans produced by Acinetobacter calcoaceticus ATCC 31012 and described in U.S. Patents Nos. 4,395,353 4,395,354 3,941,692 4,380,504 4,311,830 4,311,829 and 4,311,831, respectively hereby incorporated by reference .SuchAcinetobacter biopolymers also include the biopolymers produced by Acinetobacter calcoaceticus BD4 Taylor and Juni, J. Bacteriol. 81 688 693 1961 , hereby incorporated by reference , and Acinetobacter calcoaceticus NRRL 15616, as well as those produced by Acinetobacter calcoaceticus, strains NS 1 NRRL B 15847 , NS 4 NRRL B 15848 , NS 5 NRRLB 15849 , NS 6 NRRL B 15860 and NS 7 NRRL B 15850 . The foregoing NS strains have been deposited at the NorthernRegional Research Center, Peoria, IL and have been assigned the foregoing NRRL accession numbers. The ENDS strains ofAcinetobacter calcoaceticus are described by Sar andRosenberg, Current Microbiol. 9 6 309 14 1983 , hereby incorporated by reference. Particularly preferredAcinetobacter lipoheteropolysaccharide biopolymers are the a emulsans, the production of which is further described inU.S. Patents Nos. 4,230,801 and 4,234,689 hereby incorporated by reference . The a emulsans are characterized by a Specific Emulsification Activity of about 200 units per milligram or higher, where one unit per milligram of Specific Emulsification Activity is defined as that amount of emulsifying activity per milligram of bioemulsifier which yields 100 Klett absorption units using a standard hydrocarbon mixture consisting of 0.1 ml of 1 1 v v hexadecane 2 methylnaphthalene and 7.5 ml of Tris Magnesium buffer. In addition to Acinetobacter products which function as bioemulsifiers, other Acinetobacter derived materials are suitable for use in the soaps and shampoos of this invention. Certain strains of Acinetobacter calcoaceticus are capable of producing materials that exhibit little, if any, bioemulsifier activity, yet are crossreactive with antibodies specific for Acinetobacter calcoaceticus emulsifiers. Such materials can be used as viscosity agents and are called viscoemulsans. Acinetobacter calcoaceticus ATCC 31926 produces a viscoemulsan that is cross reactive with antibodies against emulsans produced byAcinetobacter calcoaceticus ATCC 31012. In solution, this viscoemulsan causes an increase in viscosity and thus is potentially useful in such products as liquid soaps and shampoos. 5.2. PROPERTIES OF EMULSANS The ability of the emulsans, particularly aemulsan, to stabilize emulsions makes them ideal ingredients in cleansing agents for the removal of greasy dirt and oils, including sebum, from human skin and hair. The principal factors controlling emulsion stability are electrostatic charge effects and steric effects. The properties of emulsans lend themselves to optimal exploitation of these mechanisms. Their large molecular weight and highly specific three dimensional structure result in an efficient coverage of the oil water interface. Hence, the oil droplets in oil in water emulsions are essentially coated with emulsan molecules. This effectively prevents oil to oil contact when collisions occur between adjacent droplets.Simultaneously, the polyanionic nature of emulsans cause the surfaces of emulsion droplets to be negatively charged which creates repulsive forces and significantly decreases the collision frequency between hydrocarbon droplets. In addition, the absence of multimolecular emulsan micelles in the water phase and the lack of emulsan solubility in the hydrocarbon phase provides an efficient migration and attachment of the emulsan molecules to the oil water interface. The overall result is that coalescence of the oil droplets is very significantly retarded. This in turn means that any grease or oils to be removed from the skin or hair will remain in an emulsified state and can be easily rinsed off with water. 5.3. SOAP AND SHAMPOO COMPOSITIONS Soap compositions to which bioemulsifiers can be added advantageously are standard toilet soap bases, normal or superfatted, comprising alkali metal salts of fatty acids from such sources as, for example, tallow, lard, coconut oil, palm oil and or other edible oils. Other ingredients may also be added, for example, perfumes or medications. The bioemulsifier may be added to the soap bases in relatively low concentrations and still achieve desirable results. For technical grade a emulsan, the product of Acinetobacter calcoaceticus ATCC 31012, a concentration range of about 0.02 to about 0.5 by weight is preferred. Higher quantities of technical grade a emulsan may leave skin feeling dry after washing. Shampoo compositions to which bioemulsifiers can be added advantageously are standard shampoo bases which comprise synthetic detergents. A store bought baby shampoo has served as a suitable shampoo composition. Exemplary of ingredients that may be found in standard shampoo bases in a variety of combinations are fatty acid polyglycol esters e.g., glycol distearate , fatty acid diethanolamides e.g., cocamide DEA , neutralized salts of alkyl ether sulfates e.g., sodium lauryl ether sulfate , cocoamphocarboxyglycinate, sugars e.g. fatty acid sarcosides such as sodium lauroyl sarcosinate , salts e.g., sodium chloride , buffering agents and preservatives e.g., citric acid , biocides e.g., methylchloro and methylisothiazolinone , fatty acid amine condensation products e.g., polyglycol polyamine condensation products , salts of polypeptides e.g., salts of hydrolyzed animal protein and water. Other ingredients such as perfumes and grooming agents can also be present. The bioemulsifier may be added to the shampoo bases in small amounts. For technical grade emulsan, a concentration range of about 0.02 to about 0.5 by weight can be used. A preferred concentration range is between about 0.05 to about 0.15 by weight. Depending on the grade of bioemulsifier used, it say be desirable to add other ingredients to the shsmpoo. For example, technical grade v emulsan though dispersible, is not completely soluble in all shampoo raw materials.Therefore, it is desirable to use a pearleicing agent to lake an opaque, pearlescent shampoo. It should be appreciated that grades of bioemulsifiers can be produced that are freely soluble in shampoo raw materials and can be used in translucent shampoos. 5.4. BENEFICIAL EFFECTS OF BIOEMULSIFIER CONTAINING SOAPS AND SHAMPOOS The soaps and shampoos of the present invention can be used to impart desirable characteristics to human skin and hair. Washing with soaps containing bloettiulsifiera, particularly emulsan, can make skin smooth and creamy to the touch. Shampooing with shampoos containing bioemulsifiers can make hair conditioned, shiny and free of static build up. Because of its superior cleansing and degreasing properties, bioemulsifier containing shampoo can increase the time interval between washings. Hair fixatives such as sprays, laquers, creams, etc. can be removed easily with bioemulsifier containing shampoos. In addition to imparting aesthetically pleasing characteristics to skin and hair, the bioemulsifiercontaining soaps and shampoos of the present invention, when used regularly, can bring about certain hygienically and medically beneficial effects. Soaps and shampoos containing emulsans have demonstrably beneficial effects on such common skin and scalp conditions as dermatitis, dandruff, psoriasis, eczema, acne and razor burn and are therefore potentially useful as medicaments for the treatment and or control of these and other dermatological conditions. The mechanism by which these beneficial effects are brought about is as yet unknown. For a condition like acne, which is often associated with overproduction of sebum by sebaceous glands and the proliferation of microorganisms that feed on sebum, e.g., Corynebacterium acnes which in turn lead to the blocked ducts, papules, pustules and general inflammation that are characteristic of the condition , it may be speculated that the emulsans effectuate improved removal of sebum from the skin, thereby preventing the bacterial growth that is symptomatic, if not causative, of the diseaseAlternatively, since it has been demonstrated in some instances that emulsans have the ability to desorb bacteria from epithelia, it may also be speculated that the soaps and shampoos have their beneficial effects as a result of their desorbing disease causing or disease related microorganisms from the skin.The desorptive effect has lead to the contemplation of the use of emulsans in wound treatment compositions and other products e.g., wound dressings to prevent or inhibit microbial organisms from infecting wounds. Other mechanisms besides degreasing and desorbing of bacteria may explain the beneficial effects of bioemulsifier containing soaps and shampoos. The proposal of these two mechanisms is by no means intended as a limitation on the properties a bioemulsifier must have to be advantageously included in a soap or shampoo. 6. EXAMPLES 6.1. PREPARATION OF TECHNICAL GRADE EMULSAN The a emulsans produced by Acinetobacter calcoaceticus ATCC 31012 during fermentation on ethanol are known bioemulsifiers as described in U.S. Patent No.4,395,354, incorporated by reference, supra. The a emulsans used in the soap and shampoo compositions described infra were technical grade materials, prepared in either of two ways. Both methods of preparation involved enzyme treatment and drying but differed in the order in which these steps were performed. By one method, centrifuged approximately 90 cell free fermentation broth containing a emulsans resulting from a fermentation of Acinetobacter calcoaceticus ATCC 31012 in ethanol medium was drum dried and the resulting material was treated in the following manner prior to use. A 10 by weight suspension of the material, so called technical grade a emulsan, was prepared in deionized water and heated to 50 60iC while continuously stirring. The pH of the suspension was adjusted to pH 8.5 by adding 50 by weight sodium hydroxide diluted, if necessary . Protease enzyme NOVO Industries, 1.5M Alcalase was added at a level of 1 part protease 500 parts solid a emulsan. The mixture was allowed to remain at 50 60C while being stirred for about three hours.Reactions were run to completion as judged by the absence of visible precipitable a emulsans following centrifugation of the reaction mixture. After completion of the enzyme treatment, the reaction mixtures were raised to approximately 70 C to denature the protease and stop its activity. The solutions were cooled to room temperature andCosan PMA 30 Cosan Corporation , a preservative, was added at a level of 1 part Cosan 500 parts a emulsan solution. By another method, enzyme treatment of the aemulsans was performed prior to drum drying according to the following protocol. Fermentation broth containing a emulsans resulting from a fermentation of Acinetobacter calcoaceticua ATCC 31012 in ethanol medium was centrifuged to remove approximately 90 of the bacterial cells. To the centrifuged broth, protease enzyme as previously described was added in a ratio of 1 gram protease 500 units per milligram ofSpecific Emulsification Activity where one unit per milligram of Specific Emulsification Activity is defined as that amount of emulsifying activity per milligram of bioemulsifier which yields 100 Slett absorption units using a standard hydrocarbon mixture consisting of 0.1 ml of 1 1 v v hexadecane 2 methylnaphthalene and 7.5 ml of TrisMagnesium buffer .The protease reaction was run to completion as described supra. The protease treated centrifuged broth was then evaporated to a 10 w v slurry of a emulsans. The slurry was sprayed dried and the resulting material is also referred to as technical grade aemulsan. Bar soaps were formulated with a emulsans prepared by each of the foregoing procedures. The method of preparation of a emulsans made no apparent difference in the final bar soap product, as evaluated in the laboratory on the basis of a qualitative criterion, feel to the hands. The a emulsans prepared by the second procedure described supra were used in the soaps and shampoos distributed to individuals to be evaluated as personal skin and hair care products and as beneficial agents for such skin conditions as acne, psoriasis, eczema, dandruff, etc. 6.2. EMULSAN FORMULATION FOR USE IN SOAPS AND SHAMPOOS The a emulsans prepared by the methods described inSection 6.1. were not added directly to the soap bases described in Section 6.3.1. although they can be. Instead, the a emulsans were first formulated into a composition comprising non ionic surfactants and water. The formula for the composition was the following 30 Triton X 114 an ethoxylated alkyphenol commercially available from Rohm BR Baas Co., Philadelphia, PA 10 Tergitol TMN 6 an ethoxylated alcohol commercially available from Union CarbideCorp., Danbury, CT 3 o emulsan and 57 water. Percentages are on a weight basis. Also, this formulation was added to the shampoo bases described in Section 6.5.1.Shampoos containing the formulation were used in the shampoo testing reported in Section 6.5.2. However, the subjects ofSections 6.6., 6.7. and 6.8. used shampoos to which a emulsan had been added directly. 6.3. EMULSAN IN TOILET SOAP 6.3.1. BAR SOAP COMPOSITION Standard toilet soap base Steinfels, Switzerland was used which contained, approximately, 10 coconut oil 40 beef tallow and 50 pork grease. A super fatted soap base was also used. The formulation described in Section 6.2 was readily incorporated together with color and perfume Firmenich S.A., Switzerland by intensive mixing on a three roller mill and final extrusion in a laboratory soap plodder. The final concentration of a emulsan in the bar soap ranged from 0.05 to 0.3 on a weight basis. At these low concentrations, there was no detectable odor of aemulsan. The use of concentrations of a emulsan higher than 0.3 resulted in soap bars that left a dry feeling to the skin after washing.This drying effect is probably due to the presence of the synthetic detergents in the formulation added to the soap bases. See Section 6.2., supra. 6.3.2. BAR SOAP TESTING A group of ten panelists were given soap bars with and without a emulsan as an ingredient. The concentration of a emulsan in soap bars containing the bioemulsifier was 0.15 by weight. Each panelist alternated soap bars on a daily basis, one day using the soap bar containing a emulsan and the next day using the control soap bar without a emulsan. The panelists were asked to evaluate and compare the soap bars based on several qualitative, subjective criteria, including foam formation on hands, foam consistency, feeling on wet skin and feeling on dry skin. No special soil was applied to the panelists hands. The panelists reported that there was no significant difference in foaming properties of the soap bars, although the a emulsan containing soap bars lathered into a perceptibly creamier feeling foam. Also, seven out of ten panelists indicated their skin had a better, creamier feeling after washing with the a emulsan containing soap bars. 6.4. EFFECT OF EMULSAN CONTAINING SOAP BARS ON SKIN CONDITIONS 6.4.1. EFFECT OF EMULSAN CONTAINING SOAP BARS ON ACNE Several individuals with acne and acne like conditions washed the affected parts of their bodies with aemulsan containing bar soap for varying periods of time and experienced certain beneficial effects as the result of such use. Individual cases are presented as follows One subject was a teenage female who had a moderately severe acne like condition on her back. The condition had not been medically diagnosed and is therefore referred to as an acne like condition. The condition had been present for about one year during which time the subject had used various cleansers on her back.The use of a enulsan containing bar soap 0.15 w v technical grade o esulsan on a daily basis during bathing coincided with the prompt, gradual disappearance of the subject s acne like condition. In less than one week, the acne like condition was gone. When the supply of o caulsan containing soap was exhausted, the condition returned. The subject was given another supply of 0 esulsan containing bar soap 0.05 w v technical grade a esulsan and again the acne like condition went away upon daily use of the soap. The subject also noted that the soap left her skin feeling smooth. Another subject was a teenage male with a medically diagnosed severe case of acne on his face and back.The acne had been present for about one to two years during which time the subject had used various cleansers on his face and back. The use of a emulsan containing bar soap 0.15 w v technical grade a emulsan on a daily basis during bathing coincided with a prompt and gradual improvement of the acne on the subject s face and back. In approximately one week, the condition had changed from a severe to a slight case of acne this improvement was noted by a physician. Another subject was a teenage female who had a moderately severe acne like condition not medically diagnosed on her face. The condition had been present for several months during which tile the subject had used various cleansers on her face. The use of a emulsan containing bar soap 0.05 w v technical grade a e iulsan on a daily basis during bathing coincided with a noticeable improvement in the acne like condition. In less than one week, the acne like condition changed from moderate to very slight. The subject further noted that the soap left her kin feeling smooth. Another subject was a male in his early twenties with a moderately severe acne like condition not medically diagnosed on his face and chest. The condition had been present for several years. Upon daily washings of the affected body parts with e emulsan containing bar soap O.t8t w v technical grade a emulsan , the subject experienced the following results. The acne like condition on the chest improved significantly within 3 days and cleared up completely within two weeks of use. With regard to the acne like condition on the face, the subject observed a flare up of the condition within the first week of use. A stinging sensation upon washing was also experienced.Thereafter, upon continued use of the soap, the acne like condition on the subject s face completely disappeared within 7 days. 6.4.2. EFFECT OF EMULSAN CONTAINING SOAP BARS ON RAZOR BURN The subjects were two adult males with intermittent yet severe cases of razor burn on their necks. Use of aemulsan containing bar soap t0.05 w v technical grade aemulsan for showering immediately prior to shaving significantly reduced the incidence of razor burn. Results were immediately observed after use of the bar soap. Any razor burn experienced was very slight. 6.5. EMULSAN IN SHAMPOO 6.5.1. SHAMPOO BASE COMPOSITIONS Emulsan shampoos were formulated by adding 0.10.15 a emulsan to two shampoo base compositions developed for use with the technical grade a emulsans described inSection 6.1. Formulas for the shampoo bases, designated DAM 82 25 and DAM 83 12, are presented in Tables II and III, respectively. Trade names and suppliers of commercially available products are also provided. TABLE II COMPOSITION OF SHAMPOO BASE DAM 82 25 Commercial ProductIngredient Per Cent and SupplierGlycol distearate 0.5 Genapol PMS, Hoechst Laboratories Puteaux, France Cocamide Diethanolamide 2.5 Comperlan KD, Benkel Corp. Dusseldorf, West Germany Sodium laureth sulfate 21.0 Texapon N 25, Henkel CorporationDemineralized water 44.3Methylchloroisothiazol 0.1 Rathon CG, Rohm BR inone and methyliso Haas Co. thiazol inone Philadelphia, PA Citric acid 0.1Sodium chloride 0.5Sodium lauroyl sarcosinate 5.0 Medialan LD, Hoechst LaboratoriesPolyethylene glycol 15 1.0 Polyquart H, Henkel tallow polyamine Corp. Hydrolyzed animal protein 4.0 Nutrilan L Liquid, Grunau Bavaria, West Germany Cocoamphocarboxy 20.0 Amphotensid 9M, glycinate Sodium laureth Zschimmer Schwarz sulfate Sodium lauryl GMBH Co.sulfate Lahnstein, West Germany Perfume 1.0 Firmenich S.A. Geneva, Switzerland TABLE III COMPOSITION OF SHAMPOO BASE DAM 83 12 Commercial ProductIngredient Per Cent and SupplierCitric acid 0.2 Methylchloroisothiazol 0.1 Kathon CG, Rohm BR inone and methyliso Haas Co. thiazol inone Philadelphia, PA Water 45.7 Sorbitol 70 5.0 Polyethylene glycol alkyl 15.0 Triton CB 110, Rohm ether 60 Haas Co.Cocoamphocarboxy 30.0 Amphotensid 9M, glycinate Sodium laureth Zschimmer Schwarz sulfate Sodium lauryl GMBH Co.sulfate e Lahnstein, West Germany Cocamide Diethanolamide 3.0 Comperlan KD, Henkel Corp. Dusseldorf, West Germany Pearly agent 0.5 Product GM 4055, Zschimmer Schwarz GMBH Co.Perfume 0.5 Firmenich S.A. Geneva, Switzerland DAM 82 25 was prepared in the following manner.The glycol distearate, cocamide diethanolamide and sodium laureth sulfate were heated to approximately 65 70 C and mixed until homogeneous this mixture is referred to as PartA. The remaining ingredients, except for the perfume, were combined to make a mixture referred to as Part B. Slowly, a little at a time, Part B was added into Part A, while mixing, until the combined Parts A and B were perfectly homogeneous.Finally, the perfume was added. DAM 83 12 was prepared by mixing all the ingredients listed in Table III, one after the other, according to the sequence of ingredients listed. 6.5.2. SHAMPOO TESTING Shampoo DAM 82 25 containing technical grade aemulsan at concentrations in the range of approximately 0.10.15 yielded the best results. Higher concentrations of this material made hair dull and unpleasant to touch. The a emulsan shampoo was used to wash hair containing large amounts of residues from fixative agents such as laquers, creams, hair sprays, etc. Hair containing such residues is normally difficult to wash other shampoos leave fine white residues that adhere to combs when the hair is combed after washing. It was found that the addition of 0.15 technical grade a emulsan to the composition designatedDAM 25, described in Section 6.5.1 resulted in a shampoo with better cleaning power for the previously mentioned residues.Furthermore, no white residues were observed on combs after combing hair that had been washed with the a emulsan shampoo. Hair washed with the a emulsan shampoo was evaluated with regard to regreasing, i.e., the length of the time interval before washing was again required. For some test persons the interval between washings was 30 longer than normal for others, the interval between washings was twice as long as normal. The a emulsan shampoo was further evaluated on hair of varying thicknesses. It was observed that the shampoo imparted a slight fixative effect to fine hair. On the other hand, it was observed that the shampoo had a tendency to leave thick hair harsh and unpleasant to touch at a emulsan concentrations higher than about 0.2 . 6.6. EFFECT OF EMULSAN CONTAINING SHAMPOO ON SCALP CONDITIONS 6.6.1. EFFECT OF EMULSAN CONTAINING SHAMPOO ON DANDRUFF The subject was an adult male with a moderately severe case of dandruff that had persisted for several years.The subject had never consulted a physician about his dandruff condition but had been using various commercially available medicated shampoos on his hair and scalp. In approximately one week during which the subject used DAM 82 25 shampoo containing 0.15 technical grade a emulsan, an improvement in the condition was observed. Upon further use the dandruff had disappeared. When the supply of shampoo was exhausted, the dandruff condition returned to its former level. Resumption of use of the a emulsan shampoo again resulted in an improvement in the condition. The subject also observed that his hair was better conditioned after having used the a emulsan shampoo. 6.6.2. EFFECT OF EMULSAN CONTAINING SHAMPOO ON ECZEMA PSORIASIS OF THE SCALP The subject was an adult female with a moderate form of an eczema psoriasis like condition on her scalp. The condition had been medically diagnosed. This skin condition, which had been present for several years and which had been kept marginally controlled by treatments, e.g., medicated shampoos, prescribed by dermatologists, was observed to be significantly improved upon use of the a emulsan shampoo DAM 82 25 . Results were observed in approximately one week with shampoo containing 0.18 technical grade a emulsan. When the supply of shampoo was exhausted, the skin condition returned to its former state. Unbeknownst to her, the subject was next given a placebo shampoo which did not contain any aemulsan.Within a few days, the subject, of her own initiative, reported that she was no longer observing the same beneficial effects as she had with the initial supply.The subject was then provided with a standard store bought brand of baby shampoo to which 0.1758 technical grade aemulsan was added. Use of this shampoo resulted in significant improvement of the condition. This subject also observed that emulsan containing shampoos left her hair feeling better conditioned. 6.7. CONDITIONING EFFECTS OF EMULSAN CONTAINING SHAMPOO 6.7.1. DECREASED STATIC BUILD UP The subject was an adult male who experienced static build up in his hair when blow drying it after shampooing with conventional shampoos. The first time the subject used a emulsan shampoo DAM 82 25 containing 0.158 technical grade a emulsan , he observed a very noticeable loss of static in his hair after blow drying. Static returned when shampoos without a emulsan were used.Resumption of use of a emulsan shampoo again eliminated the static build up. 6.7.2. IMPROVED SHINE The subject was an adult female who normally experienced dullness of her hair after shampooing with conventional shampoos. However, a very noticeable improvement in shiny was observed each time a emulsan shampoo 0.15 technical grade a emulsan in DAM 82 25 was used. The a emulsan shampoo was used over a period of approximately nine months during which time the improved shiny was continually observed. 6.8 EFFECT OF EMULSAN CONTAINING SHAMPOO ON MILDEW During a period of use of emulsan containing shampoo 0.15 technical grade a emulsan in DAM 82 25 , mildew did not accumulate on the shower curtain. When the shampoo supply was exhausted, the mildew began to reappear on the shower curtain. Resumption of use of emulsan shampoo upon obtaining a new supply gave a gradual decrease in mildew severity. It is apparent that many modifications and variations of this invention as hereinabove set forth may be made without departing from the spirit and scope thereof.The specific embodiments described are given by way of example only and the invention is limited only by the terms of the appended claims. The invention described and claimed herein is not to be limited in scope by the bacterial cell lines deposited, since the deposited embodiments are intended as illustrations of an aspect of the invention and any equivalent cell lines which produce functionally equivalent agents are within the scope of this invention.