# N SUBSTITUTED TRIAZOLE DERIVATIVES, AND THEIR PRODUCTION AND USE

## Claims
Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragesstaaten BE, CH, DE, FR, GB, IT, LI, NL, SE

## Description
The present invention relates to N substituted triazole derivatives, and their production and use. More particularly, it relates to N substituted triazole derivatives of the formula wherein Ph is a phenyl group substituted with one or two halogen atoms, R¹ is a C₁ C₃ alkyl group, R² is a hydrogen atom or a C₁ C₃ alkyl group, R³ is a C₁ C₈ alkyl group and n is 0, 1 or 2, and their acid addition salts, and their preparation process and their antifungal use. In the above significances, the term halogen covers fluorine, chlorine, bromine and iodine. The term C₁ C₃ alkyl covers methyl, ethyl, n propyl and isopropyl. The term C₁ C₈ alkyl is intended to mean a straight or branched alkyl group having 1 to 8 carbon atoms e.g. methyl, ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl, n butyl, sec butyl, isobutyl, t butyl, n pentyl, isopentyl, t pentyl, n hexyl, n heptyl, n octyl . Among various compounds represented by the formula I , those wherein Ph is a phenyl group substituted with halogen, R¹ is a methyl group, R² is a hydrogen atom or a methyl group, R³ is a methyl group and n is 1 or 2 are preferred. Particularly preferred are those wherein Ph is a 2,4 dichlorophenyl group or a 2,4 difluorophenyl group, R¹ and R³ are each a methyl group, R² is a hydrogen atom and n is 2. The N substituted triazole derivatives I of the invention may be prepared in either an optically active form or a racemic form. For instance, in case of a diastereomer, it can be isolated by a per se conventinal separation procedure such as chromatography. Each diastereomer may further be resolved into optical isomers by a per se conventional procedure. Thus, the scope of the invention is not limited to the racemic form but encompasses the individual optical isomers. The N substituted triazole derivatives are novel and useful as pharmaceuticals, particularly for controlling fungal infections such as mycosis in mammals including human beings. EP A 0061 835 discloses triazole and imidazole compounds and their use as plant fungicides and in fungicidal compositions. Japanese Patent Publication unexamined No. 15964 83 discloses that certain sulfides having a 1,2,4 triazole group are useful for controlling plant pathogenic fungi. However, the N substituted triazole derivative I according to the invention are not disclosed therein. As the result of an extensive study, it has now been found that the N substituted triazole derivatives I exhibit a prominent antifungal activity, particularly in continuous administration, while exerting less toxicity to mammals. This invention is based on this finding. For preparation of the N substituted triazole derivatives I , there may be adopted various procedures, among which typical ones are as follows wherein M is an alkali metal atom e.g. sodium, potassium, lithium and R¹, R² and R³ are each as defined above. Namely, the ketone compound II U.S. patent 4,128,581 is first reacted with dimethyloxosulfonium methylide III or dimethylsulfonium methylide IV , and the resultant epoxide compound V is then reacted with an alkali metal salt of 1,2,4 triazole to give the sulfide compound I n 0 , which is oxidized to the sulfinyl or sulfonyl compound I n 1 or 2 . The reaction between the ketone compound II and dimethyloxosulfonium methylide III or dimethylsulfonium methylide IV may be effected in an inert solvent e.g. dimethylsulfoxide, acetonitrile at a temperature of from 0 to 60 C. The amount of the dimethyloxosulfonium methylide III or dimethylsulfonium methylide IV is usually from 1 to 5 equivalents, preferably from 1 to 2 equivalents, to the ketone compound II . The subsequent reaction of the epoxide compound V with the alkali metal salt of 1,2,4 triazole VI is usually carried out in an inert solvent e.g. dimethylformamide, dimethylacetamide at a temperature of from room temperature to the boiling point of the solvent, preferably of from 70 to 120 C. The amount of the alkali metal salt of 1,2,4 triazole VI is usually from 1 to 5 equivalents, preferably from 1 to 3 equivalents, to the epoxide compound V . The oxidation of the sulfide compound I n 0 may be carried out by treatment with an oxidizing agent such as a peracid e.g. m chloroperbenzoic acid in an inert solvent such as a halogenated hydrocarbon e.g. chloroform at a temperature of from 30 C to the boiling temperature of the solvent, preferably of from 0 C to room temperature. The amount of the oxidizing agent used for obtaining the sulfinyl compound I n 1 is usually about an equivalent to the sulfide compound I n 0 . The amount of the oxidizing agent used for the synthesis of the sulfonyl compound I n 2 is usually more than 2 equivalents to the sulfide compound I n 0 , preferably from 2 to 3 equivalents to the sulfide compound I n 0 . wherein Ph, R¹, R² and R³ are each as defined above. Namely, the ketone compound VII Chem.Ber., The triazolyl alcohol IX is then hydrolyzed with an acid in an aqueous medium to give the diol X . As the acid, there may be used, for instance, hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid, etc. The amount of the acid may be from 1 to 5 equivalents to the triazolyl alcohol IX . The reaction temperature is normally from 0 to 80 C, preferably from 0 to 30 C. The diol X is then reacted with methanesulfonyl chloride in the presence of a base in an inert solvent e.g. benzene, chloroform, dichloromethane at a temperature of from 0 to 30 C to give the mesylate XI . The amount of the methanesulfonyl chloride may be from 1 to 2 equivalents to the diol X . As the base, there may be used, for instance, pyridine or triethylamine. The amount of the base may be from 1 to 5 equivalents to the diol X . The mesylate XI is then reacted with an alkali metal salt of a thiol XII in an inert solvent e.g. dimethylsulfoxide, dimethylformamide, water at a temperature of from 0 to 80 C, preferably from 50 to 60 C, to give the sulfide I n 0 . The amount of the alkali metal salt e.g. sodium, potassium, lithium of the thiol XII may be from 2 to 10 equivalents to the mesylate XI . The sulfide I n 0 can be oxidized to the sulfoxide or sulfone I n 1 or 2 in the same manner as described in Procedure A. The acid addition salts of the N substituted triazole derivatives I may be prepared by treatment of the N substituted triazole derivative I with an acid in a per se conventinal procedure for salt formation. Examples of the acid are inorganic acids e.g. hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, phosphoric acid, nitric acid, sulfuric acid and organic acids e.g. oxalic acid, acetic acid, maleic acid, succinic acid, fumaric acid, tartaric acid, citric acid, salicylic acid, sorbic acid, lactic acid . The acid addition salts are preferred to be physiologically acceptable. The N substituted triazole derivatives I exhibit a strong antifungal activity against various fungi. The in vivo test of the antifungal activity with some representatives of the N substituted triazole derivatives I was carried out in the following manner The results are shown in Table 1, wherein the survival rate at complete death of non medicated group control and the average number of survival days of 10 animals as one group in contrast to that of the non medicated control group were indicated. As can be seen from the above results, the N substituted triazole derivatives I show an excellent antifungal activity. Advantageously, the N substituted triazole derivatives I are quite low in toxicity, and their LD₅₀ values are more than 500 mg kg when determined by oral route to mice. Thus, they are useful as antifungal agents. The N substituted triazole derivatives I and their physiologically acceptable acid addition salts can be administered as such or in a conventional pharmaceutical preparation form together with any excipient or additive such as a carrier, a diluent or a dispersant orally or parenterally. For instance, they can be administered in the form of conventional solid or liquid pharmaceutical preprations such as solutions, suspensions, powders, granules capsules, tablets, injections, ointments or tinctures. These preparations may be formulated in per se conventional procedures. The daily dosage may vary depending upon the state of infection, the age and body weight of patients and the administration route, and the normal oral dosage to a human adult is between 10 and 3,000 mg, preferably between 10 and 200 mg, dividing in one to several times per day. Practical and presently preferred embodiments of the invention are illustratively shown in the following examples, which are not intended to limit the scope of the invention thereto. To a suspension of 50 sodium hydride 3.46 g 86.5 mmol in dimethylsulfoxide 40 ml was added trimethylsulfoxonium iodide 19.05 g 86.6 mmol at 0 to 10 C. To the resulting solution was added dropwise 2 ,4 dichloro 2 n propylthiopropiophenone 8.0 g 28.9 mmol in dimethylsulfoxide 35 ml at 50 to 60 C, and the mixture was kept at 55 to 65 C for 6 hours. After cooling, the reaction mixture was poured into ice water 700 ml and the aqueous mixture was extracted with ether. The ether extract was washed with water, dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to give 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 2 n propylthio ethyloxirane 9.2 g as an oil. This oil was used for the next step without further purification. To a suspension of 50 sodium hydride 3.46 g 86.5 mmol in dimethylformamide 90 ml was added 1,2,4 triazole 5.98 g 86.5 mmol at 0 to 10 C. After the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes, 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 2 n propylthio ethyloxirane 9.2 g as obtained above was added and stirring at 100 C was continued for 5 hours. The mixture was cooled and diluted with ice water 500 ml . The aqueous mixture was extracted with ether and the organic extract was washed with water, dried over magnesium sulfate and evaporated in vacuo to give a crude mixture of diastereomers of 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl 3 n propylthio 1 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl butan 2 ol 10.8 g as an oil. The oily mixture was chromatographed on silica gel 500 g , eluting with chloroform. The less polar diastereomer A Compound 1A, 633 mg was obtained from the first fraction as crystals. Yield, 6.1 . m.p., 101.0 103.5 C. To a solution of 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl 3 n propylthio 1 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl butan 2 ol Compound 1A, m.p., 101.0 103.5 C 510 mg 1.42 mmol in chloroform 4 ml was added m chloroperbenzoic acid 244 mg 1.42 mmol , and the resulting mixture was stirred at 0 to 10 C for 1.5 hours. The reaction mixture was washed with aqueous ammonia and water, dried over magnesium sulfate and evaporated in vacuo to give a crude mixture of diastereomers of 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl 3 n propylsulfinyl 1 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl butan 2 ol as an oil. The oily mixture was chromatographed on silica gel 60 g , eluting with chloroform methanol 100 1 . The less polar diastereomer a Compound 2Aa, 140 mg was obtained from the first fraction as crystals. Yield, 26.3 . m.p., 135.0 136.0 C. The more polar diastereomer b Compound 2Ab, 300 mg was obtained from the second fraction as crystals. Yield, 56.6 . m.p., 156.0 157.5 C. The reaction was carried out in the same manner as in Example 2A but using compound 1B m.p., 92 96 C in place of Compound 1A m.p., 101.0 103.5 C to give two diastereomers of 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl 3 n propylsulfinyl 1 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl butan 2 ol Compounds 2Ba and 2Bb . To a solution of 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl 3 n propylthio 1 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl butan 2 ol Compound 1A, m.p., 101.0 103.5 C 358 mg 0.99 mmol in chloroform 10 ml was added m chloroperbenzoic acid 515 mg 2.97 mmol at room temperature, and the resulting mixture was stirred at 0 to 10 C for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was washed with aqueous ammonia and water, dried over magnesium sulfate and evaporated in vacuo. The oily residue was chromatographed on silica gel 35 g , eluting with chloroform, to give 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl 3 n propylsulfonyl 1 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl butan 2 ol Compound 3A, 150 mg as crystals. Yield, 38.5 . m.p., 150 156 C. The reaction was carried out in the same manner as in Example 3A but using Compound 1B m.p., 92 96 C in place of Compound 1A m.p., 101.0 103.5 C to give 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl 3 n propylsulfonyl 1 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl butan 2 ol Compound 3B as an oil. In the same manner as in Example 1, 2A, 2B, 3A or 3B, the N substituted triazole derivatives I as shown in Table 2 were produced. To a solution of trimethylsulfonium methylsulfate 11.54 g 61.4 mmol in acetonitrile 60 ml was added 2 ,4 dichloro alpha methylthioisobutyrophenone 8.0 g 30.4 mmol and sodium methoxide 3.62 g 67 mmol at room temperature, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue was extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was washed with water, dried over magnesium sulfate and evaporated to give 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 2 methylthioprop 2 yl oxirane 7.0 g as an oil. This oil was used for the subsequent reaction without further purification. To a suspension of 60 sodium hydride 3.5 g 87.5 mmol in dimethylformamide 70 ml was added 1,2,4 triazole 7.0 g 101 mmol at room temperature. After the mixture was stirred for 1 hour, 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 2 methylthioprop 2 yl oxirane 7.0 g was added and stirring was continued at 100 C for 7 hours. The mixture was cooled and diluted with ice water. The aqueous mixture was extracted with toluene and the organic extract was washed with water, dried over magnesium sulfate and evaporated in vacuo. The oily residue was chromatographed on, silica gel, eluting with chloroform, to give 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl 3 methyl 3 methylthio 1 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl butan 2 ol 1.25 g . Yield, 14.3 . m.p., 80 83 C. To an ice cold solution of 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl 3 methyl 3 methylthio 1 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl butan 2 ol 1.25 g in chloroform 50 ml was added m chloroperbenzoic acid 199 mg , and the mixture was allowed to stand at 0 to 10 C for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was washed with aqueous ammonia and water, dried over magnesium sulfate and evaporated in vacuo to give a crude mixture of diastereomers of 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl 3 methyl 3 methylsulfinyl 1 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl butan 2 ol as an oil. The oily mixture was chromatographed on silica gel, eluting with chloroform. The less polar diastereomer a Compound 30a, 42 mg was obtained from the first fraction as crystals. Yield, 3.2 . m.p., 165 166 C. The more polar diastereomer b Compound 30b, 87 mg was obtained from the second fraction as crystals. Yield, 6.7 . m.p., 166 167 C. To an ice cold solution of 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl 3 methyl 3 methylsulfinyl 1 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl butan 2 ol Compound 30b, 346 mg in chloroform 50 ml was added m chloroperbenzoic acid 350 mg , and the mixture was stirred at 0 to 10 C for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was washed with aqueous ammonia and water, dried over magnesium sulfate and evaporated in vacuo. The oily residue was chromatographed on silica gel, eluting with chloroform, to give 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl 3 methyl 3 methylsulfonyl 1 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl butan 2 ol 120 mg as crystals. Yield, 31.7 . m.p., 209 210 C. In the same manner as in Example 29, 30 or 31, the N substituted triazole derivatives I as shown in Table 3 were produced. To a solution of 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl 3 mesyloxy 1 triazol 1 yl butan 2 ol 100 mg 0.263 mmol in dimethylsulfoxide 1 ml was added 15 aqueous methanethiol sodium salt at room temperature, and the mixture was stirred at 50 to 60 C for 8 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with water and extracted with ether. The extract was washed with water, dried over magnesium sulfate and evaporated in vacuo to give 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl 3 methylthio 1 triazol 1 yl butan 2 ol 71 mg, 81 as crystals. m.p., 122 123 C. This compound was identical with Compound 4A obtained in Example 4. To a suspension of 60 sodium hydride 5.62 g 0.141 mol in dimethylsulfoxide 100 ml was added trimethyloxosulfonium iodide 30.8 g 0.14 mol at room temperature, and stirring was continued at the same temperature for 1 hour. To the mixture was added a solution of 2 ,4 dichloro 2 tetrahydropyranyloxypropiophenone 14.15 g 0.0467 mol in dimethylsulfoxide 20 ml at room temperature, and the mixture was stirred at the same temperature for 12 hours. The reaction mixture was poured into ice water, and the aqueous mixture was extracted with toluene. The organic layer was washed with water, dried over magnesium sulfate and evaporated in vacuo to give 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 2 tetrahydropyranyloxy ethyloxirane 13.68 g, 92 as an oil. To a suspension of 60 sodium hydride 5.18 g 0.129 mol in dimethylformamide 70 ml was added a solution of 1,2,4 triazole 8.94 g 0.129 mol in dimethylformamide 20 ml at room temperature, and the mixture was stirred at the same temperature for 1 hour. To the resulting solution was added 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 2 tetrahydropyranyloxy ethyloxirane 13.68 g 0.043 mol obtained in Reference Example 1 at room temperature, and stirring was continued at 80 to 90 C for 3 hours. After cooling, the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo. The oily residue was quenched with water and extracted with toluene. The organic layer was washed with water, dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to give 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl 3 tetrahydropyranyloxy 1 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl butan 2 ol 14.89 g, 89 as an oil. A mixture of 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl 3 tetrahydropyranyloxy 1 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl butan 2 ol 14.59 g, 0.0378 mol obtained in Reference Example 2 and 10 hydrochloric acid 52.5 ml was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours, and the reaction mixture was neutralized with 20 aqueous sodium hydroxide. The resulting precipitate was collected by filtration, washed with ether and dried to give 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl 3 hydroxy 1 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl butan 2 ol 7.95 g, 70 as crystals. m.p., 204 206 C. To a suspension of 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl 3 hydroxy 1 triazol 1 yl butan 2 ol 1.0 g 3.3 mmol obtained in Reference Example 3 in benzene 10 ml was added triethylamine 1.0 g 9.9 mmol and methanesulfonyl chloride 0.76 g 6.6 mmol at 25 to 40 C, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was poured into ice water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with aqueous sodium bicarbonate and water, dried over magnesium sulfate and evaporated in vacuo to give 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl 3 mesyloxy 1 triazol 1 yl butan 2 ol 1.26 g, 100 as crystals. m.p., 147 149 C.