# Watervapour permeable, pressure sensitive, antiseptic wound covering material.

## Abstract
Wound covering material which is impermeable to bacteria and viruses, permeable to water vapour, pressure sensitive and antiseptic. It comprises a backing and a pressure sensitive adhesive layer containing as a glue an acrylate ester copolymer containing hydrophilic groups and or a mixture of polyvinylmethyl and or polyvinylethyl ethers. The backing layer is com posed of a film of a segmented copolyether ester comprising 40 85 by weight of short chain ester units, mainly based on 1,4 butylene glycol terephthalate, and long chain ester units derived from a glycol having a molecular weight of 800 to 6000 and an atomic ratio of carbon to oxygen between 2,0 and 4,3, provided that at least 15 by weight and not more than 40 by weight of the long chain ester units have an atomic ratio of carbon to oxygen between 2,0 and 2,4. The backing layer contains 1 to 15 by weight of iodine or 0,1 to 8 by weight of 1,6 bis 4 chlorophenyl diguanido hexane, calculated on the weight of the copolyetherester. The water vapour permeability of the backing and the adhesive layer together is at least 400g m² 24 hours in accordance with ASTM E96 66 Procedure B measured at 30 C and a ΔRH of 50 .

## Claims
1. Pressure sensitive, antiseptic wound covering material impermeable to bacteria and viruses, but permeable to watervapour, comprising a sub strate of a synthetic polymer and a pressure sensitive adhesive layer on at least the part of the substrate to be stuck to the skin, in which adhesive layer there is incorporated as adhesive a hydrophilic groups containing acrylate ester copolymer and or a mixture of poly vinyl methyl ethers and or polyvinylethyl ethers, characterized in that the substrate and the adhesive layer together have a water vapour permeability of at least 400 g m² 24 hours in accordance with ASTM E96 66 Procedure B measured at 30 C and a ΔRH of 50 , the substrate is a film of a copolyetherester consisting of a multiplicity of re peating intralinear long chain and short chain ester units which are randomly joined head to tail through ester linkages, which long chain ester units correspond to the formula and which short chain ester units correspond to the formula where G represents a divalent radical which remains after the removal of terminal hydroxyl groups from at least one long chain glycol having a molecular weight of 800 to 6000 and an atomic ratio of carbon to oxygen of 2,0 to 4,3 R represents a divalent radical remaining after removal of carboxyl groups from at least one carboxylic acid having a molecular weight less than 300, and D represents a divalent radical remaining after removal of hydroxyl groups from at least one diol having a molecular weight less than 250, and at least 80 mole of the dicarboxylic acid used are terephthalic acid or the ester forming equivalents thereof and at least 80 mole of the low molecular weight diol 1,4 butane diol or the ester forming equivalents thereof, with the sum of the mole percentages of the dicarboxylic acid which is not terephthalic acid or the ester forming equivalents thereof and of the low molecular weight diol which is not 1,4 butanediol or the ester forming equivalent thereof not exceeding 20, and the short chain ester units form 40 85 by weight of the copolyetherester, at least 15 by weight and not more than 40 by weight of the copolyetherester is formed by long chain ester units in which the long chain glycol has a carbon to oxygen ratio of 2,0 to 2,4, and the copolyether ester film contains 1 to 15 by weight of iodine or 0,1 to 8 by weight of 1,6 bis 4 chlorophenyl diguanido hexane, calculated on the weight of the copolyetherester.

## Description
The invention relates to pressure sensitive, antiseptic wound covering material impermeable to bacteria and viruses, but permeable to water vapour, comprising a substrate of a synthetic polymer and a pressure sen sitive adhesive layer on at least the part of the substrate to be stuck to the skin, in which adhesive layer there is incorporated as adhesive a hydrophilic groups containing acrylate ester copolymer and or a mixture of polyvinyl methyl ethers and or polyvinyl ethyl ethers. A material of the type indicated above is known from, int.al., European Patent Application 11 471. For the material from which the substrate is made it is preferred that use should be made of a polyurethane in a layer thickness of 30 to 75 microns. The antiseptic is incorporated into the adhesive layer. Use is preferably made then of a finely divided dispersion of the solid silver sulphadiazine. A disadvantage to this well known wound covering material is that not the entire surface is antiseptic, but only the part provided with a pressure sensitive adhesive layer. A further disadvantage is that for the material from which the substrate is made use is made of a polyurethane of which the water vapour permeability is not satisfactory. The present invention provides a pressure sensitive, antiseptic wound covering material having a far higher water vapour permeability and anti septic properties also in these places where no adhesive layer is pro vided. The invention consists in that with a wound covering material of the type indicated above as known the substrate and the adhesive layer together have a water vapour permeability of at least 400 g m² 24 hours in accor dance with ASTM E96 66 Procedure B measured at 30 C and a ΔRH of 50 , the substrate is a film of a copolyether ester consisting of a multi plicity of repeating intralinear short chain and long chain ester units which are randomly joined head to tail through ester linkages, which long chain ester units correspond to the formula The polymer described in it, however, is a polyurethane of which the urethane groups and the urea groups present function as an iodophor. The use of iodine and 1,6 bis 4 chlorophenyldiguanido hexane in wound covering material is also mentioned in the European Patent Applications 23395 and 24107. The antiseptic used in them, however, is exclusively con tained in the adhesive layer. For the substrate preference is given to a polyethylene film. A disadvantage to an antiseptic in the adhesive layer is that it is only present in the places where an adhesive layer is applied. A further disadvantage is the far shorter diffusion towards the dressed limb, which may result in a considerable reduction of the period over which the material displays its antiseptic action. Finally, mention should still be made of European Patent Application 91800, which describes a watertight, but watervapour permeable, pressure sensitive surgical dressing material. The substrate may be formed then of a copolyetherester film. Nothing is said about the composition of the co polyetherester film. Preference is given, however, to a polyurethane film. There is no question of the use in it of an antiseptic. It must be considered particularly surprising that both iodine and 1,6 bis 4 chlorophenyldiguanido hexane chlorohexidine can be readily in corporated into a copolyetherester film of the afore mentioned composition by steeping the film for half a minute up to a few minutes in a dilute aqueous or alcoholic solution of iodine and sodium iodine or a dilute aqueous solution of a salt of 1,6 bis 4 chorophenyldiguanido hexane. In actual practice use may be made for it of an 0,005 to 0,05 N iodine solu tion in water or an approximately 20 by weight solution in water of the gluconate of chlorohexidine. The degree of water vapour permeability of the copolyether ester film is, of course, not only dependent on the composition of the film, but also on the film thickness, the composition of the adhesive layer and its thick ness. At any chosen combination the watervapour permeability should always be at least 400 g m² 24 hours in accordance with ASTM E 96 66 Procedure B measured at 30 C and a ΔRH of 50 . It has been found that very favourable results are obtained when the thickness of the polymer film is in the range of 10 to 55 µm and the thickness of the adhesive layer is in the range of 10 to 60 µm. Optimum results are generally obtained when the thickness of the polymer film is in the range of 20 to 30 µm and the thickness of the adhesive layer, for which preferably a mixture of polyvinylethyl ethers is used, is in the range of 25 to 50 µm. The adhesive layer may cover the entire copoly etherester film or only part of it. It is generally preferred that use be made of a wound covering material in which 30 to 70 of the copoly etherester film is covered with an adhesive layer. Suitable adhesives for use in the wound covering material according to the invention are hydrophilic groups containing acrylate ester copolymers and or a mixture of polyvinylmethyl ethers and or a mixture of polyvinyl ethyl ethers. Examples of suitable adhesives based on acrylate ester copolymers are described, among other places, in European Patent Application 35399. For the preparation of the copolyetheresters to be used in the composite products according to the present invention reference is made to British Patent Specifications 682866, 1403210 and 1404340. Preference is given to copolyetheresters of which the short chain ester units entirely or substantially consist of polybutylene terephthalate units. Films of these copolyetheresters are easy to prepare. Moreover, films of this material generally show better physical properties for the present use than films of copolyetheresters in which for instance 20 of the terephthalic acid has been replaced with a different dicarboxylic acid. For special uses replacement of a small percentage of the 1,4 butanediol with an other diol and or replacement of terephthalic acid with an other low molecular weight dicarboxylic acid may be of advantage. In cluded among low molecular weight diols other than 1,4 butanediol which are converted into short chain ester units are acyclic, alicyclic and aromatic dihydroxy compounds. Preferred are diols with 2 15 carbon atoms such as ethylene, propylene, isobutylene, pentamethylene, 2,2 dimethyltrimethylene, hexamethylene, and decamethylene glycol, dihydroxy cyclohexane, dimethanol cyclohexane, resorcinol, hydroquinone and 1,5 dihydroxy naphthalene. Especially preferred are aliphatic diols containing 2 8 carbon atoms. In cluded among the bis phenols which can be used are bis p hydroxy diphenyl, bis p hydroxyphenyl methane and bis p hydroxyphenyl propane. Corresponding ester forming derivatives of diols are also suitable for use for instance epoxy ethane or ethylene carbonate may be used instead of ethylene glycol . The term low molecular weight diols as used in the description of the invention also refers to these corresponding ester forming derivatives, the molecular weight requirement relating to the diol as such and not to derivatives thereof. Suitable dicarboxylic acids other than terephthalic acid which are reacted with the afore mentioned long chain glycols and with low molecular weight diols to form copolyesters are aliphatic, cycloaliphatic or aroma tic dicarboxylic acids having a molecular weight not higher than 300. The term dicarboxylic acid used in the description of the invention also refers to equivalents of dicarboxylic acids having two functional car boxyl groups whose behaviour is practically the same as that of the di carboxylic acids in the conversion with glycols and diols to copolyesters. These equivalents include esters and ester forming derivatives, such as the acid halides and anhydrides. The requirements regarding the molecular weight relate to the acid and not to equivalent esters or ester forming derivatives thereof. The dicarboxylic acids may contain randomly substi tuted groups or combinations which do not detrimentally affect polyester formation or the use of the polymer in the elastomeric compositions accor ding to the invention. Aliphatic dicarboxylic acids, as the term is used herein, are carboxylic acids having two carboxylgroups which are each attached to a saturated carbon atom. Aliphatic or cycloaliphatic acids having conjugated unsaturation often cannot be used because of homopoly merization. However, some unsaturated acids, such as maleic acid, can be used. Aromatic dicarboxylic acids, as the term is used herein, are dicar boxylic acids having two carboxyl groups attached to a carbon atom in an isolated or fused benzene ring. It is not necessary that both functional carboxyl groups be attached to the same aromatic ring and where more than one ring is present, they can be joined by aliphatic or aromatic divalent radicals or divalent radicals such as O or SO₂ . Preference is given to cyclohexane dicarboxylic acids and adipic acid. Representative aromatic dicarboxylic acids which can be used include phthalic and isophthalic acids, bibenzoic acid, substituted dicarboxy com pounds with two benzene nuclei such as bis p carboxyphenyl methane, p oxy p carboxyphenyl benzoic acid, ethylene bis p oxybenzoic acid 1,5 naphthalene dicarboxylic acid, 2,6 naphthalene dicarboxylic acid, 2,7 naphthalene dicarboxylic acid, phenanthrene dicarboxylic acid, anthracene dicarboxylic acid, 4,4 sulfonyl dibenzoic acid and C₁ C₁₂ alkyl and ring substitution derivatives thereof, such as halo, alkoxy, and aryl deri vatives. Hydroxyl acids such as p β hydroxy ethoxy benzoic acid can also be used providing an aromatic dicarboxylic acid is also present. Aromatic dicarboxylic acids are a preferred class for preparing the copo lyester polymers of this invention. Among the aromatic acids, those with 8 16 carbon atoms are preferred, particularly the phenylene dicarboxylic acids, i.e., phthalic and isophthalic acids. The long chain glycols preferably entirely consist of polyethylene oxide glycol. In some cases it may be desirable to make use of random or block copolymers of epoxyethane and minor amounts of a second epoxy alkane. It is preferred that the second monomer should form less than 40 mole of the polyalkylene oxide glycols and, more preferably, less than 20 mole . Examples of suitable second monomers include 1,2 and 1,3 epoxy propane, 1,2 epoxy butane and tetrahydrofuran. Alternatively, use may be made of mixtures of polyethylene oxide glycol and a second polyalkylene oxide glycol, such as poly 1,2 propylene oxide glycol or polytetramethylene oxide glycol. The polymers described herein can be made conveniently by a conventional ester interchange reaction. A preferred procedure involves heating the dimethyl ester of terephthalic acid with a long chain glycol and a molar excess of 1,4 butanediol in the presence of a catalyst at 150 to 260 C followed by distilling off methanol formed by the interchange. Heating is continued until methanol evolution is complete. Depending on temperature, catalyst and glycol excess, this polymerization is complete within a few minutes to a few hours. This procedure results in the preparation of a low molecular weight prepolymer which can be carried to a high molecular weight copolyester of this invention by the procedure described below. Such prepolymers can also be prepared by a number of alternate esterifi cation or ester interchange processes for example, the long chain glycol can be reacted with a high or low molecular weight short chain ester homo polymer or copolymer in the presence of catalyst until randomization occurs. The short chain ester homopolymer or copolymer can be prepared by ester interchange from either the dimethyl esters and low molecular weight diols, as above, or from the free acids with the diol acetates. Alterna tively, the short chain ester copolymer can be prepared by direct esteri fication from appropriate acids, anhydrides or acid chlorides, for example, with diols or by other processes such as reaction of the acids with cyclic ethers or carbonates. Obviously the prepolymer might also be prepared by running these processes in the presence of the long chain glycol. The resulting prepolymer is then carried to high molecular weight by distillation of the excess of short chain diol. This process is known as polycondensation . Additional ester interchange occurs during this distillation to increase the molecular weight and to randomize the arrange ment of the copolyesters units. Best results are usually obtained if this final distillation or polycondensation is run at a pressure not higher than 130 Pa and 240 260 C for less than 2 hours in the presence of antioxidants such as sym di beta naphthyl p phenylenediamine and 1,3,5 trimethyl 2,4,6 tri 3,5 ditertiarybutyl 4 hydroxybenzyl benzene. Most practical polymerization techniques rely upon ester interchange to complete the polymerization reaction. In order to avoid excessive hold time at high temperatures with possible irreversible thermal degradation, it is advantagous to employ a catalyst for ester interchange reactions. Although a wide variety of catalysts can be used, organic titanates such as tetrabutyl titanate used alone or in combination with magnesium or calcium acetate are preferred. Complex titanates, such as Mg HTi OR ₆1₂, derived from alkali or alkaline earth metal alkoxides and titanate esters are also very effective. Inorganic titanates, such as lanthanum titanate, calcium acetate antimony trioxide mixtures and lithium and magnesium alkoxides are representative of other catalysts which can be used. According to the invention for the long chain glycol having an atomic carbon to oxygen ratio in the range of 2,0 to 2,4 preferably use is made of a polyethylene oxide glycol having a molecular weight in the range of 800 to 6000. When use is made of a polyethylene oxide glycol having a molecular weight 800, the proportion thereof to be incorporated in the copolyether ester is prohibitively high. For, a film made therefrom having a thickness of, say 35µm and a water vapour permeability of at least 400 g m² 24 hours has been found unsuitable for use in wound covering material. Also the manu facture of wound covering material from copolyether ester films prepared by using a polyethylene oxide glycol having a molecular weight 6000 leads to unsatisfactory results in that the physical properties of the co polyetherester films are very deficient in several respects, e.g. as far as strength is concerned. Generally, a wound covering material having very good properties can be obtained when the long chain glycol having an atomic carbon to oxygen ratio in the range of 2,0 to 2,4 is a poly ethylene oxide glycol having a molecular weight in the range of 2000 to 4000. It has been found that the most favourable results are obtained with a material prepared from a copolyetherester of which the short chain ester units substantially consist of polybutylene terephthalate units. An op timum quality was obtained when use was made of a copolyetherester in which, when exclusively use is made of polyethylene oxide glycol of a molecular weight in the range of 2000 to 4000, the percentage short chain ester units is in the range of 70 to 80 by weight. The manufacture of films from the present copolyetheresters is carried out in the manner known per se from the art, as described in Kirk Othmer, Encyclopedia of Chemical Technology The manufacture of copolyetherester films is described in US Patent Speci fication 3968183. With the method described the starting material is melt extruded into film, which is cooled at a temperature in the range of 40 to 120 C. If preference is given to very thin films of 10 to 35µm, use may be made of the film blowing method. Once the films have been provided with an adhesive layer and been rendered antiseptic by immersion in an iodine solution or a solution of a chloro hexidine salt, they are dried and packaged in a material impermeable to bacteria and viruses. In this packaging material the dressing will still be sterilized by sub jecting it to γ radiation of 2 to 3 Mrad. The invention will be further described in the following examples, which are of course not to be construed as limiting the scope of the present invention. Into a 200 l autoclave there were introduced 33,3 kg of dimethyl tereph thalate, 21,6 kg of 1,4 butanediol and 12,5 kg of polyethylene oxide glycol having an average molecular weight of 4000. The reaction mixture was heated to 110 C, with stirring, followed by adding 500 ppm of tetra butyl titanate, calculated on dimethyl terephthalate. Upon a further in crease in temperature to 160 C methanol distilled off, after which the pressure was slowly reduced to 100 Pa and the temperature increased to 245 C. This polycondensation reaction, which lasted 3 to 4 hours, led to a pro duct having a relative viscosity of 2,53 measured at a concentration of 1 g in 100 g m cresol at 25 C . In the same way as indicated above several copolyetheresters were prepared using varying amounts of the above mentioned polyethylene oxide glycols, with the proviso that the copolyetheresters B, C and D were still subjec ted to polycondensation in the solid phase. The copolyetheresters prepared had the following composition The copolyetheresters prepared in Example I were blown into films having a thickness ranging from 20 to 30 µm, after which the water vapour perme ability WVP of the films was measured at 30 C and 50 ΔRH in accordance with procedure B of ASTM E 96 66. The results are given in the table below. Part of the resulting films were steeped in ethanol for 1 minute and sub sequently over a period of 5 minutes, they were kept in an iodine solution containing 4g I₂ and 5g NaI in 390 g ethanol. After rinsing with ethanol and drying to the air the iodine content was determined. The results of these determinations are given in Table 3. Another part of the films was immersed in water for 1 minute and subse quently, for 5 minutes, in a solution of 20 by weight of chlorohexidine gluconate in water. After rinsing with water and drying to the air the chlorohexidine content was determined. The results of these determina tions are given in Table 3. Subsequently, an adhesive solution was applied to the films to a thickness of 100 µm, which after evaporation of the solvent resulted in an adhesive layer approximately 40 µm thick. Two different adhesives A and B were applied. The adhesive A consisted of a mixture of 31 g of a 25 solution of polyvinylethyl ether K value 103 113 in hexane, 56,3 g of a 70 solution of polyvinylethyl ether K value 55 65 in petroleum ether with a boiling point between 60 and 140 C and 38 g of petroleum ether with a boiling point between 60 C and 140 C. Ad hesive B was composed of a mixture of 44,4 g of a 50 solution of poly vinyl methyl ether K value 45 55 in water, 41 g of a 50 dispersion of a polyacrylate viscosity at 25 C Contraves Rheometer STV, AIII 10 40 mPa.s and 20 g of water. After the solvent had been evaporated, the water vapour permeability WVP was measured of the films thus provided with an adhesive layer. The results of these measurements are given in Table 4. Finally, of the material thus manufactured the antiseptic effect was measured by leaving pieces of film on an agaragar plate inoculated with staphylococcus Aureus. The width of the circular section around the film where there has been no growth of bacteria is a measure of the antiseptic effect of the film. The test was subsequently repeated with film sterilized by γ radiation of 2,5 Mrad. The test results are given in Table 5. The results in the above table clearly show the great antiseptic action of the wound covering material of the present invention. It also appears that the antiseptic action of a film with adhesive A is distinctly greater than that of a film with adhesive B. Moreover, after sterilization by γ radiation the antiseptic action of the wound covering material accor ding to the invention is largely retained. Use being made of the procedure given in Example I, three copolyether esters K, L and M were prepared containing varying amounts of polyethy lene oxide glycol of an average molecular weight of 4000. After prepara tion in the melt the three copolyetheresters were subjected to polyconden sation in the solid phase. The composition and the relative viscosity measured at a concentration of 1,0 g in 100 g m cresol at 25 C of the copolyetheresters thus prepared is given in the table below. The copolyetheresters prepared in Example III were processed into films by extrusion on a chill roll of which the temperature was kept at 115 to 120 C. After the chill roll there was still provided a heating roll temperature 115 to 120 C . The resulting film was wound up at a speed of 14 m minute. The extruder had a 4 zone screw having a length diameter ratio of 25,5. The compression ratio was 2,54 and the polymer pressure 119.10⁵ Pa. The temperatures in the 4 zones of the extruder screw were, successively, 260 , 257 , 255 and 250 C. By varying the width of the casting slit films of different thicknesses were made from each of the copolyetheresters K,L and M. Of these films the water vapour permeability was measured both before and after applying an adhesive layer adhesive A of Example II of the thickness indicated and consisting of a mixture of polyvinylethyl ethers. The results are given in the table below. Of a frequently used wound covering material of polyurethane film 28 µm thick and provided with a polyvinylethyl ether layer 38 µm thick a WVP of 300 g m² 24 hours was measured. This film however had no antiseptic pro perties. Copolyetheresters K, L and M prepared in accordance with the procedure of Example III were extruded into three films each having a thickness of about 30µm. These films were treated in the way indicated in Example II with an aqueous 0,01 N I₂ solution or with an aqueous solution containing about 20 by weight of chorohexidine gluconate. Finally, the films were coated with an adhesive layer of 50µm containing an adhesive A. The resulting films were tested for their antiseptic action in the way in dicated in Example II. The results are given in the table below. Use being made of the procedure given in Example I, two copolyetheresters P and Q were both prepared using two polyether glycols, viz. polyethylene oxide glycol PEG average molecular weight 4000 and polytetramethylene oxide glycol PTMG average molecular weight 1000 . Of the dimethyl terephthalate a proportion of 15 had been replaced with dimethyl isophthalate. After preparation in the melt the two copolyetheresters were subjected to polycondensation in the solid phase. The composition and the relative viscosity measured at a concentration of 1,0 g in 100 g of m cresol at 25 C of the resulting copolyetheresters is given in the table below. In accordance with the procedure indicated in Example IV these polymers were processed into films having a thickness of 20 µm and 30 µm. Of these films the water vapour permeability was measured both before and after applying an adhesive layer adhesive A of Example II of the thickness indicated and consisting of a mixture of polyvinylethyl ethers. The results are given in the table below. In accordance with the procedure given in Example II the two films were treated respectively with an 0,01 N I₂ solution and with a solution containing about 20 by weight of chlorohexidine gluconate in water. Finally, the films were provided with an adhesive A containing layer to a thickness of 50 µm. The resulting films were tested for their antiseptic action in the way indicated in Example II. The results are given in the table below. Use being made of the same procedure as given in Example I, two copolyetheresters R and T were prepared, the polyether being a polyethylene oxide glycol PEG of a molecular weight of 1000 and 2000, respectively. After polycondensation in the solid phase copolyetherester R with 66 by weight of butylene terephthalate units and 34 by weight of polyethlylene oxide glycol MW 1000 terephthalate units had a η After polycondensation in the solid phase copolyetherester T with 68 by weight of butylene terephthalate units and 32 by weight of polyethylene oxide glycol MW 2000 terephthalate units had a η These copolyetheresters were processed into films having a thickness of 23 copolyetherester R and 22 µm copolyetherester T , respectively. The table below shows the results of the water vapour permeability measurements on the resulting films, which were provided or not with an adhesive layer having a thickness of 25 and 50 µm, respectively Adhesive A of Example II .