# Electronic ballast circuit for fluorescent lamps

## Claims
Elektronische Schaltungsanordnung, die zur Speisung einer Lampenschaltung mit mindestens einer Gasentladungslampe von einer elektrischen Speiseschaltung mit einer zeitvariablen Spannungsamplitude verwendet werden kann, wobei diese Schaltungsanordnung ein Invertierschaltungsmittel 110 aufweist, das derart geschaltet werden kann, daß es aus der genannten Quelle gespeist wird und einen ersten und zweiten gesteuerten Schalter 111 bzw. 112 aufweist, sowie ein Mittel 123 um die genannten Schalter in wechselnden Zyklen mit der Invertierfrequenz jeweils in den leitenden Zustand zu steuern, wobei ein hochfrequentes elektrisches Signal am Ausgang 121 erzeugt wird, das mit der genannten Lampenschaltung verbunden werden kann um dieselbe zu speisen weiterhin ein Abtastschaltungsmittel 142 , das im Betrieb in Antwort auf Lampenstrom ein Steuersignal erzeugt ein Rückkopplungssteuerschaltungsmittel 127 , das zum Steuern der gesteuerten Schalter auf das genannte Steuersignal reagiert, wobei der Lampenstrom auf einen vorbestimmten Wert geregelt wird,

## Description
The present invention relates to a ballast circuit for fluorescent or other gaseous discharge lamps. More particularly, it relates to an electronic ballast circuit for energizing fluorescent lamps at high frequency from a conventional 60 Hz power source. As used herein, the term fluorescent is intended to include other gaseous discharge lamps such as high intensity discharge lamps. It is known that these lamps operate more efficiently at frequencies higher than 60 Hz. Typically, such frequencies may range from 15 KHz to as high as 100 KHz. In the prior art, there have been many suggestions of electronic ballast circuits capable of high frequency operation, and there have also been commercial attempts to provide such electronic ballasts. It has recently been recognized that to obtain longer life on fluorescent lamps designed for high frequency operation, the lamp current should be regulated to a degree higher than some may have thought necessary in earlier ballast circuits. There is a problem in obtaining a highly regulated lamp current because, in a ballast intended for residential or commercial use, conventional 60 Hz line voltage is the only practical source of power. Even when full wave rectified, so that a 60 Hz source in effect becomes a 120 Hz source, there is substantial variation in the amplitude of the source voltage fed to the power transformer which normally energizes the lamp load. If this variation in amplitude is reflected in applied lamp current, it is undesirable because it is believed any such variation will reduce effective lamp life. A measure or factor sometimes used by lamp manufacturers to limit or define operating specifications of a ballast to ensure longer lamp life is the crest factor which is defined as the ratio of the peak amplitude of the lamp current to the rms value of lamp current. Some lamp manufacturers require, at least for certain lamps, that the crest factor of a solid state ballast operating at high frequency be less than 1.6. One of the reasons that desirable values of crest factor are not obtainable in prior art electronic ballast circuits is that the voltage is permitted to go to zero volts between the cusps of the full wave rectified source voltage. This period between the peaks or cusps of the rectified voltage, when the voltage goes to zero volts, or to carry over voltage if any auxiliary supply is used, is referred to as inter cusp period . Even if an auxiliary source of DC voltage is used to store energy as in a capacitor, for example , crest factors of less than 1.6 are nevertheless difficult to attain in such a system without auxiliary filters or unduly large values of components, which results in larger sizes of components, and that defeats some of the primary purposes of a solid state ballast namely, reduction in the size of components and increased operating efficiency. In some electronic ballasts, the crest factor is improved simply by adding large filters to the full wave rectified source voltage, but, in turn, adding bulky and costly components and reducing the overall efficiency of the ballast. In WO A1 82 01276, there is disclosed a lamp energizing circuit including at least one gaseous discharge lamp from a source of electrical power having a voltage amplitude varying in time, comprising inverter circuit means which can be connected to receive power from said source and including first and second controlled switches, means to gate said switches to conduction respectively in alternate cycles of inverter frequency thereby generating a high frequency electrical signal at an output which can be connected to said lamp circuit to supply power thereto sensing circuit means which in use generates a control signal in response to lamp current feedback control circuit means which responds to said control signal to control the gating of the controlled switches thereby regulating lamp current to a predetermined value. The inverter circuit in this reference is non resonant. The present invention is characterized in that said inverter circuit means includes a resonant circuit having a resonant frequency and connected to said output, said feedback control circuit means including means which varies the frequency of conduction of said first and second controlled switches in relation to the resonant frequency of said inverter circuit means and in response to said control signal representative of lamp current during normal operation thereby regulating output of said resonant circuit to regulate said lamp current and to reduce the crest factor of lamp current. An example of the invention will now be described with reference to the accompanying drawings in which Turning to FIG. 1, reference numeral 10 generally designates a thyristor capacitor bridge circuit including first and second thyristors silicon control rectifiers 11, 12 connected in series with a full wave rectifier circuit 13 which receives standard 60 Hz line power and converts it to a full wave rectified output signal of 120 Hz, such as is illustrated in idealized form on line 1 of FIG. 2. The bridge circuit 10 also includes first and second balanced capacitors 16, 17 connected in series to form two legs of the bridge. The diagonal branch of the bridge includes a power transformer generally designated 20, the output of which is coupled to a lamp load circuit comprising gaseous discharge lamps, such as fluorescent lamps, diagrammatically represented by the block 21. The value of capacitors 16 and 17, and the inductance including any reflected impedance from the load of transformer 20 form a resonant circuit when thyristors 11, 12 are conducting. The thyristors 11, 12 are gated on by a signal coupled through a pulse transformer generally designated 23. The transformer 23 includes a primary winding 24 driven by the Timing and Feedback Control Circuit 27, and first and second secondary windings 25, 26 which are connected in circuit respectively with the gate leads of thyristors 11, 12 in such a manner that current flowing through primary winding 24 of transformer 23 in one polarity will cause thyristor 11 to conduct, and current flowing through the primary winding 24 in the opposite polarity will cause thyristor 12 to conduct. Timing for the Timing and Feedback Control Circuit 27 is derived from a Zero Cross over Detector Circuit 28 which receives a signal from a secondary winding in the power transformer 20. That signal is designated X X, and the Zero Cross over Detector Circuit 28 generates a pulse each time the load current reverses polarity. A signal designated R is generated in the lamp circuit representative of lamp current. The signal R is a level signal not a sinusoidal signal having a magnitude representative of a value of lamp current averaged over a number of cycles of the high frequency lamp current. As explained above, when thyristor 11 conducts, capacitor 16 discharges at least partly, and a current represented by arrows I₁ flows through thyristor 11 and the primary of transformer 20 from the positive to the negative terminal, and thence through capacitor 17 to ground. Because the transformer 20 and capacitors 16 and 17 form a resonant circuit, the current I₁ will reverse in polarity dependent upon the resonant frequency of the circuit, and thereafter thyristor 12 will be gated to conduction with current flowing in the direction of the arrows I₁. Thyristor 11 will be non conducting at this time. Thus, a high frequency current oscillating at a frequency which may be, for example, in the range of 20 KHz to 50 KHz is generated in the lamp circuit and coupled to energize the lamp load. The positive half of the symmetrical resulting waveform at the output of the power transformer 20, again in idealized form, is seen on line 2 of FIG. 2. The envelope of the waveform is shown in phantom as a series of cusps and designated 30. It corresponds to the frequency and same general shape as the 120 Hz rectified line voltage of line 1. The lamp current goes to zero as the source voltage goes to zero during the inter cusp period. A storage capacitor may be used to supply a carry over voltage in the inter cusp period, in which case the envelope may be as seen at 33 on line 2. In either case, since the lamp current will have a generally similar envelope, the crest factor for lamp current is undesirably high. To further explain the operation of the current regulating feature of the circuit of FIG. 1, an individual cycle of lamp current is shown, once more in idealized form, on an expanded time scale of line 3 of FIG. 2. It is sinusoidal in form, though, as mentioned above, the peak to peak value of that wave will depend upon the magnitude of the rectified source voltage. Referring then to FIG. 1, the Zero Cross over Detector Circuit 28 generates a signal at time represented in FIG. 2 by reference numeral 34 when current I₁ or I₂ goes through a zero value. The timing portion of the control circuit 27 thereupon establishes a fixed time delay represented diagrammatically by the arrow t The response time of the feedback control circuit for the system of FIG. 2 is relatively slow that is, of the order of a few tenths of a second. In other words, the 3 db point of the frequency response characteristic of the feedback circuit is of the order of 2 5 cy sec. As a result, the amplitude of voltage applied to the lamp circuit and the amplitude of lamp current vary in accordance with the envelope of the voltage waveform seen on line 2. The resulting crest factor for lamp current is, as explained above, undesirable from the standpoint of criteria established by lamp manufacturers for longevity of lamps. Specifically, if the envelope of the signal of line 2 with the inter cusp voltage going to zero represents peak lamp current and the arrow designated I Turning now to FIG. 3, there is shown a preferred circuit for achieving a regulated lamp current with reduced amplitude modulation of the voltage applied to the lamps and an improved crest factor for a lamp current. To facilitate comparison with the circuitry of FIG. 1, components in the circuit of FIG. 3 which have a similar function to those identified in FIG. 1 will be identified with a corresponding reference numeral preceded by a 1 . Thus, an inverter in the form of a half bridge circuit is generally designated 110. It includes first and second semiconductor switches 111, 112. The controlled switches illustrated are MOSFET transistors, although other semiconductor switches may also be used. MOSFET transistors were selected because of their higher frequency response, enabling the inverter frequency to be increased and thereby reducing the size of other components. The nominal operating frequency of the inverter of FIG. 3 is in the range of 50 100 KHz, and the nominal resonant frequency is 50 KHz. MOSFET transistors are suited to this application because, as will be appreciated from an understanding of the circuit, they are turned on i.e., to a state of conduction when no forward current is flowing in the branch in which the MOSFET is located, and they are turned off when forward current is flowing. This suits the application to the faster turn on and turn off times of MOSFET transistors compared, for example, to those of bipolar transistors. Still referring to FIG. 3, the inverter circuit 110 includes capacitors 116 and 117 in the other branches. To energize the inverter circuit 110, 60 Hz line voltage is connected top a rectifier bridge circuit 113, the output of which is fed to the inverter circuit 110, as illustrated. A power transformer generally designated 120 has a primary winding 120A connected between the common junction of the transistors 111, 112 and the common junction of the capacitors 116, 117 that is, the power transformer 120 is connected in the diagonal branch of the bridge circuit 110. A first secondary winding designated 120B feeds the lamp load circuit 121 which may include fluorescent or other gaseous discharge lamps, such as high intensity discharge lamps, in any number of configurations. A capacitor 122 is connected across the secondary winding 120B and forms the capacitive reactance in combination with the inductive reactance of the transformer 120 to define the resonant frequency of the inverter which in the illustrated embodiment is approximately 50 KHz, as indicated. The transistors 111, 112 are triggered at mutually exclusive times by a drive transformer 123 having a primary winding 124 which is connected to the output of a logic and frequency controlled circuitry 127. Transformer 123 also has a first secondary winding 125 which is connected to the gate of transistor 111, and a second secondary winding 126 which is connected to the gate of transistor 112 as seen. The details of the logic and frequency control circuitry 127 will be described in connection with FIG. 4, and it is analogous to the logic and feedback control circuitry 27 of FIG. 1 in that it is responsive to a signal representative of lamp current to regulate the value of lamp current. The circuitry 127, however, does so in a different manner. Specifically, the circuitry 127 cooperates with and takes advantage of the frequency response characteristic of the bridge 110 and controls the operating frequency of the bridge in relation to its resonant frequency to achieve an overall desired output or gain in achieving current regulation. This can be seen by referring to FIG. 5 in which reference numeral 135 designates a curve showing the relationship between frequency and the gain of the inverter circuit or resonant amplifier as it is sometimes called. In this context, the resonance of the amplifier is defined, as indicated above, primarily by the capacitor 122 and the leakage inductance of the power transformer 120. Referring then to FIG. 5, the resonant frequency of the inverter is designated F Returning to FIG. 3 once more, a carry over voltage is supplied for supplying energy between the peaks of the 120 Hz full wave rectified source voltage. The carry over voltage circuitry includes a diode 136 having its cathode connected to the positive output of the full wave rectifier bridge circuit 113 and its anode connected to a storage capacitor 137. The junction between diode 136 and capacitor 137 is coupled by means of an inductor 138 and a diode 139 to the junction between the transistors 111, 112 which, it will be observed, is also an input terminal to the primary winding 120A of power transformer 120. The half wave rectifier formed by diodes 139 and 140 provides a voltage equal to one half peak supply voltage and permits capacitor 137 to be charged from the high frequency output of the inverter circuit rather than from the line supply, thereby minimizing line current distortion and retaining a high input power factor. Briefly, the capacitor 137 is relatively large to provide storage of sufficient energy. It is charged through diode 139 and inductor 138, and it discharges through diode 136 when the amplitude of the output voltage of the bridge cricuit 113 falls below the level of voltage stored across capacitor 137. A diode 140 may be connected as shown across diode 139 and transistor 112. Turning now to the signal inputs to the Logic and Frequency Control Circuitry 127, a first input signal is derived from a secondary winding 141 of transformer 120 which may be coupled to a filament circuit for one or more lamps in the load circuit 121. A current transformer generally designated 142 senses the current flowing in the load of the secondary winding 141 and generates a signel e First and second resistors 148, 149 may be connected in series across the transistors 111, 112 to form a voltage divider and the signal at the junction between the resistors 148, 149 is representative of the amplitude of the source voltage. That signal is fed along a lead 150 to the Logic and Frequency control Circuitry 127 and may be used to protect against source over voltage. A current transformer 151 senses current flowing in the primary of transformer 120 and including a secondary winding 152. The signal on line 153 is designated i The output leads of the Logic and Frequency Control Circuit are designated 161 and 162 and they are connected directly to the terminals of the primary winding 124 of transformer 123. Power for the Logic and Frequency Control Circuitry 127 is derived from a conventional bridge rectifier circuit generally designated 163 which is capacitively coupled to the line voltage and which generates an output signal on a line 164 coupled through a conventional voltage regulator circuit 165 to generate logic and control power for the circuitry 127. A Zener diode 164A and filter capacitor 164B are also connected as shown, as is conventional. Turning now to FIG. 4, the Logic and Frequency Control Circuitry 127 is seen in functional block form. The secondary winding 145 of power transformer 120 and lead 146 on which the signal e The other input from summing junction 171 is a signal designated e The other terminal of summing junction 173 is received from the output of a phase detector circuit enclosed within dashed line 179. One input to the phase detector circuit 179 is received on line 153 from current transformer 151 and is representative of the phase of inverter current, ip. The other input signal to phase detector 179 is the drive signal on line 161 which is coupled to the primary 124 of the drive transformer 123. This signal is representative of the phase of the voltage across the primary since it determines the triggering of the semiconductor switches 111, 112 as indicated above. That signal is coupled to a first Schmitt trigger circuit 180 to square it and a differentiator 181 to an AND gate 182. The signal i Phase detector circuit 179 is diagrammatically illustrated in FIG. 4. When the drive frequency of the semiconductor switches is near the resonant frequency F of the resonant inverter amplifier, the output signal of the phase detector 179 is a positive voltage. As the operating frequency of the inverter increases above the resonant frequency, indicating that the current i As explained above, the frequency of the voltage controlled oscillator 178 determines the operating frequency of the inverter. As that frequency increases from the resonant frequency, the gain of the inverter will decrease continuously. During start up, the start circuit 175 generates the signal e which is coupled through the junction 171, filter 176 and diode 177 to the input of voltage controlled oscillator 178 to set the operating frequency at a high value. Thus, lamp voltage is low until the filaments are heated. The output signal of the start circuit 175 will then ramp down to zero volts, and under normal conditions, the voltage applied to the lamp circuit will increase as the frequency of the voltage controlled oscillator 178 decreases, thereby decreasing the drive frequency of the semiconductor switches 111, 112. As the start voltage begins to ramp down, at the end of the predetermined time indicated at T₁, the inverter drive frequency will decrease toward resonance and the voltage applied to the lamps will correspondingly increase. As the start voltage ramps down and the inverter frequency decreases, the applied voltage to the lamps will increase, thereby also causing an increase in the signal e When the lamps ignite, the signal e Assuming normal operation, namely that the operating frequency of the inverter is above resonance, and the output signal of the phase detector circuit 179 will be at zero volts, the output signal of rectifier 172 which is representative of lamp current will control. As the lamp current signal increases, the frequency of voltage controlled oscillator will also increase and the gain of the inverter will be reduced. As the signal representative of lamp current decreases, on the other hand, the frequency of the voltage controlled oscillator 178 will decrease, thereby increasing the gain of the inverter circuit. Thus, the lamp current is regulated. If the operating frequency of the inverter becomes too low that is, if it reduces beneath the resonant frequency of the inverter, then the output signal of the phase detector 179 will increase and thereby limit the lower operating frequency of the voltage controlled oscillator 178. Thus, the phase detector circuit 179 defines a lower limit to the operating frequency range of the inverter. Should the applied voltage to the lamp circuit increase beyond the normal operating range as might occur if a lamp burns out or is removed , the signal e The characteristic of the voltage to frequency converter 178 is such that as the input signal increases, the frequency of the output signal also increases. To illustrate the effect of increasing the frequency of the signal coupled to the drive transformer 123, reference is made to FIG. 5 and the response characteristic 135. As the operating frequency increases, the gain will diminish, thereby reducing the amplitude of the voltage at the secondary winding 120B of transformer 120 and consequently reducing lamp current. By designing the circuitry of FIG. 4 namely, the feedback control circuitry or frequency control circuitry as it is sometimes referred to, to have a frequency response such that its minus 3 db frequency point is approximately 5 KHz for a resonant frequency of 50 KHz F in FIG. 5 , a crest factor of 1.6 or less can be achieved. Thus, not only is lamp current regulated, but it is also rendered relatively insensitive to variations in the source voltage. By way of illustration, referring to FIG. 6, line 1 diagrammatically illustrates the envelope of the voltage applied to the primary winding 120A of power transformer 120, but due to the regulating effect achieved by varying the drive frequency to the inverter, the output voltage of the transformer 120 is seen as represented in an idealized form on line 2 of FIG. 6. Whereas in the illustrated embodiment, the operating frequency range was greater than the resonant frequency of the inverter amplifier, persons skilled in the art would be able to modify the system which has been disclosed and operate on other portions of the frequency characteristic, such as before the resonant frequency.