# CHROMINANCE SIGNAL PROCESSING APPARATUS

## Claims
Chrominanz Signale bearbeitendes Gerät zur Umwandlung eines Chrominanz Trägersignals in ein gewandeltes Tiefbandchrominanzsignal während eines ersten Arbeitsganges und zur Umwandlung des gewandelten Tiefbandchrominanzsignals in das Chrominanz Trägersignal während eines zweiten Arbeitsganges

## Description
The present invention relates to a chrominance signal processing apparatus for recording and reproducing chrominance signals of the color television signals in the color video tape recorder color VTR . The chrominance signal processing apparatus carries out frequency conversion of low band converted chrominance signal or carrier chrominance signal , jitter correction of carrier frequency, signal level correction, black and white signal discrimination of input video signal and prohibition of chrominance signal recording and reproduction. Conventional commercial color VTRs employ a recording system called color under in which carrier chrominance signal converted to a low band signal is recorded on a video tape under FM luminance signal band by means of frequency multiplex system. The FM luminance signal is demodulated during playback, while the low band converted chrominance signal is frequency modulated to the original chrominance signal of high color subcarrier frequency. The thus obtained two signals are added thereby to obtain a reproduced color television signal. Various circuit systems are conventionally proposed for integrating circuit used in the chrominance signal processing apparatus. e.g. I. Nakagawa, A. Shibata, and N. Horie, New chrominance signal processing LSI, IEEE Trans Consum Electron. Vol. 26, No. 3, pp. 315 322, 1980 . A typical configuration example of the conventional chrominance signal processing apparatus is shown in Fig. 1 and will hereafter be explained. In Fig. 1, the carrier chrominance signal of carrier frequency f sc 3.58 M Hz in the case of NTSC system is fed from the terminal 1 during recording, and ajusted to an adequate level by ACC amplifier ACC 2 and supplied to one input of the frequency converter 3. To the other input of the frequency modulator 3 is fed the carrier of f sc f c which is the sum of the low band converted carrier frequency fc 629 K Hz in the case of a VTR of VHS system and the carrier frequency f sc of the carrier chrominance signal. The level adjusted carrier chrominance signal and the carrier of the frequency f sc f c are multiplied by the frequency converter 3 . The low band converted chrominance signal of the carrier frequency fc obtained as a result of the multiplication is extracted by the low pass filter LPF 4, and supplied to the killer switch KILLER SW 7 through the recording reproduced output switch 6. The control terminal of the killer switch 7 is supplied with the discriminating results of the presence of the chrominance signal, by which the low band converted chrominance signal from the switch 6 is switched to be supplied to the output terminal 8. During playback, the low band converted chrominance signal of the carrier frequency fc is fed from the terminal 1 to be level adjusted by ACC amplifier 2 and supplied to one input of the frequency converter 3. To the other input of the frequency converter 3 is supplied the carrier of the frequency of f sc fc which is the sum of the carrier frequency fc of the low band converted chrominance signal from the terminal 1 and the reference color subcarrier frequency f sc for reproduced carrier chrominance signal. The level adjusted low band converted chrominance signal and the carrier of frequency f sc fc are multiplied by the frequency converter 3. Carrier chrominance signal of the reference carrier frequency f sc obtained as a result of the multiplication is extracted by the band pass filter BPF 5, and outputted to the terminal 8 through the switch 6 and the killer switch 7. The killer switch is controlled by the discriminating results of the presence of the chrominance signal as in the case of recording. In the recording and playback system as described above, the ACC operation for adjusting the level of the carrier chrominance signal or the low band converted chrominance signal by the ACC amplifier 2, These operations are conventionally carried out in the following method. In the first place ,during recording, from the carrier chrominance signal which passed the ACC amplifier 2 , and, during reproduction, from the reproduced carrier chrominance signal converted of the frequency after passing the band pass filter 5, the burst portion is extracted by the burst gate BG 10. During both recording and reproduction in the ACC operation, the extracted burst portion is detected of the peak level by the ACC detector ACC DET 11. The direct current DC portion is extracted by the low pass filter LPF 12, and supplied to the ACC amplifier 2 as the signal for gain control. The ACC amplifier 2, if the signal DC voltage for gain control is high, i.e., the level of the burst portion is large, operates in a direction to decrease the gain,and if the signal DC voltage is low,the ACC amplifier 2 operates in a direction to increase the gain so that the level of the chrominance signal is constant by the above mentioned feedback loop. During recording in the APC operation, the signal generator VXO 13 functions as the voltage control oscillator to oscillate at the color subcarrier frequency f sc . This oscillated output and the burst portion obtained by the burst gage 10 are synchronously detected by the phase comparator PC , results of which are fed back to the frequency control input of the signal generator 13 through the low pass filter LPF 15 and the switch 16. Thus the signal generator 13 performs the synchronous detection by the phase comparator 14 and oscillates at the frequency so that the signal passed through the low pass filter 15 becomes 0. The oscillated output of the signal generator 13 turns into the color subcarrier frequency which is synchronized by the phase difference between the extracted burst portion and 90 and supplied to one input of the frequency converter 17. To the other input is supplied the low band converted carrier. As regards the generating method of the low band converted carrier, the signal of a frequency nfH multiplied by n n is a positive integer of the frequency fH of the horizontal synchronous signal inputted from the terminal 23 is generated during the recording by the phase locked loop hereinafter PLL consisting of the phase comparator PC 18, low pass filter LPF 19, switch 20 , signal generator 21, and l n divider l n 22. The generated signal is divided by the carrier making circuit PS PI 24 and its phase is shifted by 90 hereafter PS process per one horizontal interval in opposite direction of each track based on the recorded track discriminating signal PG inputted from the terminal 25. Or the phase is inverted hereafter PI process per one horizontal interval of every other track . The frequency fc is 40 fH and shifted by 90 per one horizontal interval when NTSC television signal is recorded by VHS system. For recording, the chrominance subcarrier of the frequency f sc and the low band converted carrier of the frequency fc are multiplied by the frequency converter 17, and the signal of the frequency f sc fc is extracted by the band pass filter BPF 26. The extracted signal is supplied to the frequency converter 3, whereby the low band converted carrier of the low band converted chrominance signal to be outputted finally from the terminal 8 and the low band converted chrominance signal generated by the carrier making circuit 24 are synchronized. For reproduction, since the signal generator 13 becomes a reference oscillator to generate the color subcarrier frequency of the reference frequency f sc because the signal generator circuit 13 is frequency controlled by the constant voltage supplied from the reference voltage circuit REF 27 through the switch 16. The output of the phase comparator 14 is supplied to the signal generator 21 through the low pass filter 15 and switch 20, whereby the signal generating circuit 21 operates so that the frequency converted burst of the reproduced carrier chrominance signal to be outputted finally from the terminal 8 is synchronized with the reference color subcarrier generated by the signal generator 13. As regards the killer operation, because the burst taken out from the burst gate 10 has a 90 phase difference during both recording and playback due to the APC operation for the color subcarrier frequency from the signal generator 13, the carrier with the same phase as the burst is produced by shifting 90 the phase of the color subcarrier frequency from the signal generator 13 using the 90 phase shifter 90 SHIFT 28 . The carrier is supplied to the killer detector KILLER DET 29 for synchronous detection of the taken out burst . The comparator COMP 29 discriminates the presence of chrominance signal by the DC voltage after passed the low pass filter LPF 30, and the control signal is supplied to the killer switch 7. In the chrominance signal processing apparatus of a conventional example as above, three detection circuits are necessary to perform operations of the ACC, APC and color killer. They are the ACC detector 11 for peak level detection of the burst, comparator circuit 14 for synchronous detection of the color subcarrier frequency from the burst and signal generator 13, and the killer detector 29 for synchronous detection of 90 phase shifted color subcarrier frequency from the signal generator 13 as well as the burst. Because these circuits are complicated and of large scale in order to achieve respectively specified characteristics and because the performance of the respective operations are determined by the characteristics of the detection circuits and the analog low pass filter of the subsequent stages, it is difficult to establish the circuit constants. The conventional chrominance signal processing apparatus has further disadvantage of increased number of externally added parts. A colour video signal processing circuit is disclosed in U.S. patent US A 4,430,674 in which DC control signals responsive to ACC voltages are applied to a colour signal amplifier, to which recording and reproducing colour signals are applied to control the operation of the colour signal amplifier to recording or reproducing mode. Such control is attained by using a colour killer signal responsive to mode changeover and ACC detector signals which serve to assign the colour signal amplifier to recording or reproducing mode. It is an object of the present invention to provide a chrominance signal processing apparatus which has a simplified circuit configuration, improved performance, and reduced number of parts. The present invention provides a chrominance signal processing apparatus for converting a carrier chrominance signal to a low band converted chrominance signal in a first operation mode and for converting said low band converted chrominance signal to said carrier chrominance signal in a second operation mode, comprising Embodiments according to the present invention will hereafter be described with reference to the drawings. Fig. 2 is a block diagram of a chrominance signal processing apparatus in an embodiment in which the detection of the burst for the APC operation is carried out with the low band converted chrominance signal during both recording and reproduction . In Fig. 2, 21 is a first signal generator VCO , 13 is a second signal generator XVO , 18 is a first phase comparator PC , 42 is a second phase comparator PC , 24 is a carrier generating circuit PS PI , 27 is a reference voltage source REF , 20 is a first switch, 16 is a second switch , 40 is a third switch , 1 is a signal input terminal, 2 is an ACC amplifier ACC , 3 and 17 are frequency converters, 4 is a low pass filter LPF , 5 is a band pass filter BPF , 6 is an output signal select switch 7 is a killer switch KILLER SW , 8 is a signal output terminal, 23 is a horizontal synchronous signal input terminal, 19 is a low pass filter LPF , 22 is a l n divider l n , band pass 26 is a band pass filter BPF , 41 is a burst gate BG , and 43 is a low pass filter LPF . The operation will hereafter be described. During recording, the carrier chrominance signal of the carrier frequency f sc is supplied from the input terminal 1, adjusted of the level by the ACC amplifier 2, and supplied to one input of the frequency converter 3. Further, the frequency converter 3 is supplied with the carrier of the frequency f sc fc from the frequency converter 17 through the band pass filter 26, and the carrier frequency appears at the output of the frequency converter 3 with the chrominance signal of In the frequency converter 17, the low band converted carrier of the frequency fc from the carrier generating circuit 24 and the carrier of the frequency f sc from the second signal generator 13 are multiplied by the frequency converter 17 to extract the carrier of f sc fc by the band pass filter 26. To make the low band converted carrier fc, the phases of the horizontal synchronous signal inputted from the terminal 23 and the signal of the signal generator 21 divided of its oscillation output by the divider 22 are compared by the phase comparator 18. The result of comparison is supplied to the frequency control input of the signal generator 21 through the low pass filter 19 and switch 20, thereby obtaining from the signal generator 21 a signal of frequency nfH multiplied by the integer of the horizontal synchronous frequency fH by processing the nfH signal with division and phase shift or phase inversion by the carrier generating circuit 24. The oscillation frequency of the second signal generator 13 oscillated by the frequency f sc is controlled by the output of the switch 16, and the output of the phase comparator 42 is given during recording through the low pass filter 43. The switch 40 is a switch for the signal to be supplied to one input of the phase comparator 42, and, during recording, the burst of the low band converted chrominance signal for recording coming from the low pass filter 4 is supplied to the other input of the phase comparator 42 through the switch 40 and burst gate 41. The low band converted carrier from the carrier generating circuit 24 is given to the other input of the phase comparator 42, where the burst of the low band converted chrominance signal for recording and the low band converted carrier from the carrier generating circuit 24 are compared of their phases, and the result of the phase comparison is supplied to the switch 16. During recording, a PLL is configured with the closed loop consisting of the phase comparator 42, low pass filter 43, switch 16, signal generator 13, frequency converter 17, band pass filter 26, frequency converter 2, low pass filter 4, switch 40, and burst gate 41, so that the carrier of the low band converted chrominance signal from the terminal 8 is controlled to have the same frequency and a constant phase as the low band converted frequency carrier produced by the carrier generating circuit 24. Operations during reproduction will then be described. For reproduction, the low band converted chrominance signal of the carrier frequency fc separated from the reproduced signal from the magnetic tape is supplied to the input terminal 1. The low band converted chrominance signal is supplied to the frequency converter 3, further the signal of the frequency f sc fc is supplied to the frequency converter circuit 3 from the frequency converter 17 through the band pass filter 26. From the chrominance signal of the carrier frequency An embodiment will hereafter be explained, regarding a digital circuit used for the burst detection to carry out the APC operation . Fig. 3 is a block diagram of a chrominance signal processing apparatus in an embodiment including a digital circuit used for the burst detection to carry out the APC operation according to the present invention. In Fig. 3, 21 is a first signal generator VCO , 59 is a second signal generator VXO , 24 is a carrier generating circuit PS PI , 27 is a reference voltage source REF , 20 is a first switch , 16 is a second switch, 40 is a third switch, 50 is an A D converter A D , 51 is a decoder DECODER , 52 and 53 are digital comb filters COMB , 54 is an encoder ENCODER , 55 is a D A converter D A , 56 is a band pass filter BPF , 57 is a control voltage generating circuit PC , 58 is a low pass filter LPF , and 60 is a 1 4 divider 1 4 . Operation of the embodiment configured as above will hereafter be explained. For recording, similar to the conventional embodiment of Fig. 1 or the embodiment in Fig. 2 according to the present invention, the carrier chrominance signal of the carrier frequency f sc is supplied from the input terminal 1 and passes through the frequency converter 3, low pass filter 4, switch 6, and killer switch 7. The low band converted chrominance signal of carrier frequency fc is extracted at the output terminal 8. In addition to the carrier chrominance signal, the frequency converter 3 is supplied with the signal of the frequency of f sc fc extracted by the band pass filter 26. The frequency of f sc fc is the sum extracted by the band pass filter 26 from the results that the low band converted carrier of the frequency fc from the carrier generating circuit 24 and the color subcarrier frequency of the frequency f sc from the 1 4 divider 60 are multiplied by the frequency converter 17. The method to produce the low band converted carrier of the frequency fc to be supplied to the frequency converter 17 is quite the same as the embodiment of Fig. 2. The method to make the color subcarrier frequency of the frequency f sc is somewhat different from the embodiment of Fig. 2. Instead of the second phase comparator 42 in Fig. 2, almost equal operation is carried out by the A D converter 50, decoder 51, digital comb filters 52 and 53, and control voltage generating circuit 57. The low band converted chrominance signal after passing through the low pass filter 40 is supplied to the A D converter 50 through the switch 40 and sampled and A D converted at the frequency of 4 fc which is four times the low band converted carrier frequency fc. The sampling clock of the A D converter 50 is the oscillation output of the first signal generator 21. The low band converted chrominance signal converted into digital data by the A D converter 50 is separated by the decoder 51 into two color difference signal data of B Y and R Y. The decoder 51 is supplied with the low band converted carrier of the frequency fc from the carrier generating circuit 24 and the sampling clock of the frequency 4 fc from the signal generator 21. When the burst and the low band converted carrier of the low band converted chrominance signal are synchronized, the result of sampling the low band converted chrominance signal by the clock of the frequency four times the low band converted color sub carrier frequency produces repeated data of B Y, R Y, B Y , R Y of the color difference signal components. These repeated data are utilized for separation into two color difference signal data. The separated two color difference signal data of B Y, R Y are added to the data before one horizontal interval or two horizontal interval by the digital comb filters 52 and 53, and the result of addition produces color difference signal data B Y , R Y which are supplied to the control voltage generating circuit 57. Here the digital comb filters 52 and 53 are used for reproduction but is not used for recording, and the output data B Y, R Y of the decoder 51 may be supplied directly to the control voltage generating circuit 57. The control voltage generating circuit 57 consists of an arithmetic circuit, a digital filter and a D A converter, where the phase error between the demodulation timing and the low band converted chrominance signal is detected by the A D converter 50 and decoder 51 from the values of the burst section of the color difference signal data of the low band converted chrominance signal. The voltage equivalent to the phase error is produced and supplied to the second signal generator 59 through the analog low pass filter 58 and switch 16 to thereby control the oscillation frequency. The second signal generator 59 oscillates at the frequency four times the color subcarrier frequency f sc . The oscillation output is divided by the 1 4 divider 60 and supplied to the frequency converter 17 as the color subcarrier frequency of the frequency f sc. During recording, a PLL is configured with the closed loop consisting of the frequency converter 17, band pass filter 26, frequency converter 3, low pass filter 4, switch 40, A D converter 50, decoder 51, digital comb filters 51 and 52, control voltage generating circuit 57, low pass filter 58, switch 16, signal generator 59, and 1 4 divider 60. As to the method to produce voltage equivalent to the phase error in the control voltage generating circuit 57, if for example the color television signal of NTSC system is to be recorded and reproduced, since the burst has a constant magnitude in one direction of the B Y component of the color difference signal, the data R Y in which components do not appear may be D A converted as they are and passed through the analog low pass filter 58 to thereby produce such voltage. While, if tan ϑ R Y B Y is obtained digitally from the color difference signal data B Y , R Y , ϑ is the very phase error and the voltage equivalent to ϑ may be D A converted. By inserting a 0th digital hold filter prior to the D A converter, then the analog low pass filter after the D A converter may be omitted and it is possible to operate for outputting the average error of the burst section . By the operation of the PLL, after separation by the decoder 51, the oscillation frequency or oscillation phase of the signal generator 59 is controlled so that the color difference signal data R Y having passed the digital comb filter is made to be 0 or otherwise to be tan ϑ R Y B Y 0. As a result of this, the burst of the low band converted chrominance signal outputted from the terminal 8 synchronizes with the low band converted carrier produced by the carrier generating circuit 24. The operation of reproduction will then be described. In the embodiment according to the present invention, the frequency converters 3 and 17 are not used for reproduction. The reproduced low band converted chrominance signal from the terminal 1 is supplied to the A D converter 50 through the switch 40. The reproduced low band converted chrominance signal which is A D converted is separated into B Y and R Y by the decoder 51 as in the case of recording, added to the data before 1H or 2H by the digital comb filters 52 and 53, and supplied to the encoder 54 as B Y , R Y . The encoder 54 is supplied from the signal generator 59 with the clock of the frequency 4 f sc which is four times the color sub carrier frequency f sc. Because the control input of the oscillation frequency of the signal generator 59 is different from that of recording and the reference voltage source 27 provides the reference voltage through the switch 16, the signal generator 59 oscillates at four times of the reference frequency f sc. Based on the oscillation clock from the signal generator 59 the encoder 54 repeatedly outputs the total of four data, i.e., the color difference signal data B Y , R Y and data B Y , R Y which are digitally converted of the color difference signal data B Y , R Y , in order of R Y , B Y , R Y , B Y respectively . The reproduced carrier chrominance signal of the carrier frequency f sc is obtained by converting these repeated data into analog values by the D A converter 55. The band pass filter 56 is to remove the high harmonics of the reproduced carrier chrominance signal which is modulated digitally and is taken out from the terminal 8 by means of the switch 6 and killer switch 7. In order for the carrier frequency of the reproduced carrier chrominance signal to become the reference frequency without jitter, it is necessary for the low band converted chrominance signal to be separated accurately into two color difference signals by the A D converter 50 and decoder 51. For this reason, by supplying, during recording, the error voltage from the control voltage generating circuit 57 supplied to the signal generator 59 to the frequency control input of the signal generating circuit 21 by means of the switch 20, a PLL is configured with the A D converter 50, decoder 51, comb filters 52 and 53, control voltage generating circuit 57, low pass filter 58, switch 20, signal generator 21, and carrier generating circuit 24, whereby the low band converted carrier synchronized with the burst of the reproduced low band converted chrominance signal and the clock for A D conversion of the frequency 4 fc are obtained. As described above, when recording the carrier chrominance signal on the recording demium after converting to the low band , carrier phase information of the carrier chrominance signal is detected by the burst which is converted into the low band converted chrominance signal . When reproducing the low band converted chrominance signal recorded on the recording medium, the burst is detected of its phase with the low band converted chrominance signal, thereby enabling the phase comparison for PLL which has conventionally been carried out with the color subcarrier frequency 3.58 M Hz in case of NTSC with the low band converted frequency 629 K Hz in case of VHS . Thus a PLL of simple circuit and yet of high performance can by obtained. It is possible to materialize easily and simply the circuit configuration to detect the phase of the burst for the APC operation in the state of the low band converted chrominance signal during recording and reproducing . The configuration comprises the first signal generator to generate the signal of the frequency which is the integer times the low band converted frequency the carrier generating circuit to produce the low band converted carrier by the signal from the first signal generator the second signal generator to produce the signal of the frequency which is the integer times the color subcarrier frequency the first phase comparator to compare the phases of the division signal and hosirontal synchronous signal of the signals from the first signal generator the second phase comparator to compare the phases of the burst of the low band converted chrominance signal and the low band converted carrier from the carrier generating circuit the reference voltage source to give the constant control signal having a frequency of the second signal generator as the reference frequency and the first, second, and third switches. This configuration is capable of phase detection of the burst for the APC operation in the state of the low band converted chrominance signal during recording and reproducing by switching with the first switch the control input of the first signal generator by the signal from the first phase comparator and the signal from the second phase comparator by switching with the second switch the control input of the second signal generator by the signal from the second phase comparator and the constant control signal from the reference voltage source and by switching with the third switch the burst of the low band converted chrominance signal to be inputted into the second phase comparator by the burst of the low band converted chrominance signal to be recorded on the magnetic tape and by the burst of the low band converted chrominance signal reproduced from the magnetic tape. Furthermore, the second phase comparator has a demodulator , if configured to compare the phases from the values of the burst section of demodulated two color difference signals, various phase comparison methods can be considered, being effective to increase the degree of freedom in design, can be materialized by the digital sampling demodulation at low speed, and is suitable for digital circuit. As the frequency conversion method for reproduction, if such a method is employed that the quadrature two phase balanced modulated wave is produced by the specified carrier frequency after demodulating the low band converted chrominance signal into two color difference signals in the demodulator, the demodulator of the second phase comparator and the demodulator for demodulating the low band converted chrominance signal into two color difference signals can by shared as a single demodulator, which simplifies the circuit configuration. The demodulator may have an A D converter for sampling and A D converting the low band converted chrominance signal by the clock four times the low band converted frequency from the first signal generator , and a decoder to digitally demodulate the digital data outputted from the A D converter into two color difference signals . The R Y component of the low band converted chrominance signal demodulated to the digital data may be D A converted directly or after processed with the digital filter . Or, the phase error may be digitally obtained from the R Y component and B Y component of the demodulated low band converted chrominance signal, and D A converted. The thus obtained D A converted signal is used, directly or after passed an analog filter, as a control signal to be supplied to the first or second switch to control the oscillation frequency of the first or second signal generator. In this configuration, by providing various digital filters and arithmetic circuits before the D A converter, it becomes possible to pull in the PLL, to set circuit constants, and to process non linearly, which were impossible by the conventional analog circuits. Also, characteristics can be improved. By digital 0th holding, the analog low pass filter is substituted. Therefore, digitalization and integration of circuits and reduction of circuit components can be easily realized. Another embodiment will next be described, regarding the burst detection for the APC operation carried out with the low band converted chrominance signal . Fig. 4 is a block diagram of the chrominance signal processing apparatus in such embodiment. During recording, the carrier chrominance signal inputted from the terminal 1 is level adjusted by the ACC amplifier 2, multiplied by the carrier of the frequency f sc fc in the frequency converter 3, extracted of the low band converted chrominance signal by the low pass filter 4, to thereby obtain the recording low band converted chrominance signal finally at the terminal 8 through the switch 6 and killer switch 7. These steps are the same as those of the conventional example of Fig. 1 or other embodiments shown in Fig. 2 and Fig. 3. During reproduction, the low band converted chrominance signal which inputted from the terminal 1 through the switch 40 and passed the ACC amplifier 2, is supplied to the A D converter 50. The low band converted chrominance signal is converted into digital data, demodulated digitally by the decoder 51, passed through the digital comb filters 52 and 53 . The obtained two color difference signal data are converted by the encoder 54 into one quadrature two phase balanced modulation data, which is then converted by the D A converter 55 into the analog signal, to thereby obtain the carrier chrominance signal of the specified frequency f sc at the terminal 7 through the band pass filter 56, switch 6, and killer switch 7. These steps are the same as those of other embodiment shown in Fig. 3. To produce the carrier of the frequency f sc fc to be supplied to the frequency converter 3 during recording, the signal of the frequency nfH n times the frequency of the horizontal synchronous signal inputted from the terminal 23 is first produced by the phase comparator 18, low pass filter 10, signal generator 21, and divider 22 . The signal of the frequency nfH is supplied to a carrier generating circuit PS PI 68 by means of the switch 67 to produce the first low band converted carrier. With the signal of the frequency nfH and the first low band converted carrier, the decoder 51 demodulates the low band converted chrominance signal into two color difference signal digital data, which is the same as the embodiment shown in Fig. 3. Data of the burst portion of the data R Y passing through the digital comb filter 53 is held by a sample hold circuit S H 571, inverted of the polarity by a XOR gate 572 by a recording reproduction switching signal from a terminal 61, and D A converted by a D A converter 573. Namely, a circuit similar to the control voltage generating circuit 57 in Fig. 3 is configured with the sample hold circuit 571, XOR gate 572, and D A converter 573. The carrier chrominance signal of the color television signal is the quadrature two phase balanced modulated wave consisting of R Y and B Y of the color difference signal, and, in case R Y and B Y has a vector of phase being different by 90 and the burst SC of the carrier chrominance signal is of NTSC system as shown in Fig. 5, then the carrier chrominance signal will have the vector in opposite direction of B Y. In case the carrier chrominance signal of the NTSC system is converted to low band , such vector will also turn into the quadrature two phase balanced modulated wave which is the R Y axis of the carrier chrominance signal inverted by 180 ,but the vector B of the burst will have the vector in the opposite direction B Y as in the case of the carrier chrominance signal. Therefore, if the frequency nfH of 4 fc which is four times the low band converted carrier frequency fc is selected and sampled with the clock of the frequency 4 fc by the A D converter 50, data of B Y, R Y, B Y , R Y in Fig. 6 are repeated when the clock is in a certain phase. If the repeated data are inverted and separated of code based on the phase of the low band converted carrier from the carrier generating circuit 68, such data can be demodulated to two color difference signal data. Here, if the low band converted chrominance signal is advanced by an angle ϑ relative to the sampling clock for demodulation, the burst of the low band converted chrominance signal advances by an angle ϑ with respect to the demodulation axis like B of the vector diagram in Fig. 6. Thus, the phase error information of B a B sin ϑ is obtained on the color difference signal digital data R Y. R Y data which is the phase error information passes through the digital comb filter 53 to turn into the data R Y , and the information of the burst section is held as the phase error data by the sample hold circuit 57. XOR gate 572 inverts the data from the sample hold circuit 571 by the recording reproduction switching signal inputted from the terminal 61 . The signal H of high voltage level is received for data inversion from the terminal 36 such for example as during recording, and the signal L of low voltage level is received during reproduction to allow data to pass through as it is. The phase error data inverted by the XOR gate 572 during recording is supplied to the other signal generator VCO 65 by means of the D A converter 573, low pass filter 58 and adder 64. The signal generator 65 is controlled of its frequency and phase by the phase error data which was inverted and D A converted to thereby oscillate at the frequency four times the low band converted carrier frequency fc. Low band converted carrier is produced from the oscillation output by the carrier generating circuit 24 and supplied to one input of the frequency converter 17. To the other input of the frequency converter 17 is supplied the signal of reference color subcarrier frequency for which the signal of the frequency 4 f sc from the fixed reference oscillator XCO 66 is divided into 1 4 frequency by the divider 60. In the other embodiment in Fig. 3, the frequency and phase of the signal of the frequency f sc to be supplied to the frequency converter 17 are controlled as the result of the phase comparison with the voltage produced by the control voltage generating circuit 57. In this embodiment, however, the frequency and phase of the signal of the frequency fc to be supplied to the frequency converter 17 are controlled. In other words, to the other input of the frequency converter 17 is supplied the signal of reference carrier frequency for which the signal of the frequency 4 f sc from the fixed reference oscillator 66 is divided into 1 4 frequency by the divider 60. The voltage to control the frequency and phase which were D A converted is supplied to the signal generator 65 which has almost equivalent performance to the signal generator 21 by means of the low pass filter 58 and adder 64, to thereby control the frequency and phase of the oscillation output . The second low band converted carrier is produced by the carrier generating circuit PS PI 24 from the oscillation output of the signal generator 65 based on the horizontal synchronous signal from the terminal 23 and the track judgment signal PG from the terminal 25. The produced low band converted carrier is supplied to the other input of the frequency converter 17. As in the same case of the other embodiment of Fig. 3, the result of multiplication by the frequency converter 17 passes through the band pass filter 26, turns into the carrier of the frequency f sc fc, and supplied to the frequency converter 3. By the operation described above, the frequency and phase of the signal generator 65 are controlled during recording so that the first low band converted carrier produced by the first signal generator 21 and the carrier generating circuit 68 is synchronized in a fixed phase with the burst of the low band converted carrier chrominance signal. The side lock detector SIDE LOCK DET 69, low pass filter LPF 70, and adder 64 are provided to prevent the side lock of the signal generator 65 and must be operated during both of recording and reproduction. During reproduction, the low band converted chrominance signal inputted from the terminal 1 is supplied to the A D converter 50 through the switch 40 after having been level adjusted by the ACC amplifier. The low band converted chrominance signal inputted into the A D converter 50 is converted into digital data, demodulated by the decoder 51 into two color difference signal digital data of R Y and B Y . The R Y data is passed through the digital comb filter 53 to produce R Y data, further passed through the sample hold circuit 571, XOR gate 572, D A converter 573, low pass filter 58, and adder 64, and supplied to the signal generator 65. The output signal of the signal generator 65 is supplied to the carrier generating circuit 68 by means of the switch 67. By supplying the A D converter 50 and decoder 51 with the output signal of the signal generator 65 supplied to the carrier generating circuit 68 and the low band converted carrier produced by the carrier generating circuit 68 based on the output signal, the low band converted chrominance signal is demodulated accurately into two color difference signal digital data of R Y and B Y, which is the same operation as described of the other embodiment shown in Fig. 3. The color difference signal digital data R Y and B Y demodulated by the above operation passes through the digital comb filters 52 and 53 to be turned into the data R Y and B Y and supplied to the encoder 54. The encoder 54 needs the clock of the frequency 4 f sc quadrupled of the reference color subcarrier frequency f sc and such clock is supplied directly from the reference oscillator 66. The above description refers to the recording and reproduction of the color television signal of NTSC system. But in the case of recording and reproduction of the color television signal of PAL system, the carrier chrominance signal of the PAL system turns into the vector of which the burst SC has the same magnitude into the direction of B Y and the direction of R Y as a and b of the vector diagram in Fig. 7, and repeats the state of a and b every one horizontal interval. The low band converted chrominance signal also has the vector B of the burst as c and d in Fig. 8. Since the vector B has the same magnitude in the directions of R Y and B Y and the R Y axis repeats inverting at every one horizontal interval, by for example providing the digital comb filters 52 and 53 for adding the R Y and B Y data of one horizontal interval before and the present R Y and B Y data before or after the sample hold circuit 571, Bb of c and d in Fig. 8 which is the R Y data of the burst B is cancelled and can be handled in the same manner as the color television signal of NTSC system. In the chrominance signal processing apparatus in the above embodiments according to the present invention, there is no independent phase comparator to compare the phases of two carriers of the low band converted frequency. If the low band converted chrominance signal is digitally demodulated by the decoder 51, the burst portion in the R Y data of the two color difference signal data is considered the phase error between the low band converted chrominance signal supplied to the decoder 51 and the first low band converted carrier supplied from the carrier generating circuit 68 as the demodulation axis . Therefore, the results of the phase comparison or the oscillation phase control signal of the signal generator 65 is produced by the control voltage generating circuit 57 consisting of the sample hold circuit 571, XOR gate 572, and D A converter 573 from the burst portion of the data R Y after passed through the digital comb filter 53. In other words, in order to convert the frequency of the low band converted chrominance signal into the carrier chrominance signal during reproduction, the modulation circuit used to demodulate once into the color difference signal is employed also as the phase comparator . The embodiment shown in Fig. 4 comprises the first phase comparator to compare phases of the two signals of the horizontal synchronous frequency the second phase comparator to compare phases of the two carriers of the low band converted frequency the two signal generators to oscillate at the frequency of integer times that of the low band converted chrominance signal the reference oscillator to oscillate the reference color subcarrier frequency of integer times and the inversion circuit to invert the polarity as the result of comparison of the two phase comparator circuits. During recording the frequency of the signal generated by one signal generator is controlled by the result of comparison of the first phase comparator to thereby obtain at the output of the signal generator the signal of the frequency of integer times the horizontal synchronous frequency . The first low band converted carrier is produced by the oscillation output. Phases are of the burst of the low band converted chrominance signal for recording and the first low band converted carrier are compared by the second phase comparator. The frequency and phase of the other signal generator is controlled by the result of this comparison. The oscillation output thereof is used to produce the second low band converted carrier so that the carrier chrominance signal is converted to the low band by the oscillation output of the reference oscillator and the second low band converted carrier. Either one of the signal generator is operated during reproduction, and its oscillation output is used to produce the low band converted carrier. The phases of the burst of the low band converted chrominance signal prior to frequency conversion and the low band converted carrier are compared by the second phase comparator. The result of this comparison is inverted of the polarity by the inversion circuit to configure the frequency and phase control of the signal generator. The low band converted carrier and the oscillation output of the reference oscillator are used to convert the low band converted chrominance signal into the specified carrier frequency. The signal generating circuit 13 in the conventional example shown in Fig. 1 for example or the signal generating circuit 59 of the embodiment in Fig. 3 was operated as the voltage control oscillator during recording. However , such arrangement can be separated into one reference oscillator and one voltage control oscillator. Though the signal generating circuit 13 and the signal generator 59 conventionally employ crystal oscillators of good frequency stability, there are problems wherein the crystal characteristics suitable to carry out the two operations of the reference oscillator and voltage control oscillator cannot be obtained and the oscillation circuit and control circuit become complicated. By such a configuration as the embodiment according to the present invention , the number of oscillators increases, while the oscillator being almost the same as the signal generator 21 which is the voltage control oscillator conventionally available can be used,and one crystal is used as usual. Further, because the crystal oscillator uses the fixed frequency ,it is possible to configure the circuit with a single CMOS inverter to thereby simplify the circuit configuration. Also, such arrangement is suitable for integration as MOSIC. Further in the chrominance signal processing apparatus according to the present invention, if one of the two signal generators is used with the first phase comparator to operate only for multiplying the frequency of the horizontal synchronous signal by the integer during recording, and the other signal generator is used with the second phase comparator to operate both during recording and reproduction, power consumption during reproduction can be reduced. In addition, for example, because the analog voltage is switched for recording and reproduction after passed the low pass filter as in the case of the switches 16 and 20 shown in the conventional example in Fig. 1 or another embodiments shown in Fig. 2 and Fig. 3, the analog switch of good performance is required. However, the analog switch can be replaced with the digital multiplexer which switches for recording and reproduction signals from the two signal generators as the switch 67 in Fig. 4, so that the circuits can be digitalized and it is possible to easily provide interface between blocks. Furthermore, in much the same way as another embodiments in Fig. 2 or Fig. 3, if it is configured that the second phase comparator has the demodulation circuit and the values between the burst section of the two color difference signals are used for phase comparison, various methods of phase comparison can be considered and are effective to increase the degree of freedom in designing. Because such configuration can be realized by the low speed sampling demodulator, arithmetic circuit, and D A converter, such configuration is suitable for integration of digitalized circuits. Further in the same way like the embodiment in Fig. 3, as a method of the frequency conversion during reproduction, if the low band converted chrominance signal is first demodulated once by the demodulator into two color difference signals and processed with the quadrature 2 phase balanced modulation by a specified carrier frequency, the demodulator of the second phase comparator and the demodulator for demodulating the low band converted chrominance signal into two color difference signals can be shared as a single demodulator thereby simplifying the circuit. Furthermore in much the same way like the embodiment in Fig. 3, the modulator may comprise an A D converter for sampling and A D converting the low band converted chrominance signal by the clock which is four times the low band converted carrier frequency from either of the signal generators, and a decoder for digital demodulating the digital data from the A D converter into two color difference signals. It is also possible to omit the analog low pass filter by providing a 0th digital holding circuit, allowing easy digitalization and integration of circuits as well as the reduction of circuit parts. Other two embodiments according to the present invention will now be explained regarding the burst detection for the ACC operation carried out with the low bands converted chrominance signal. Fig. 9 is a block diagram of a chrominance signal processing apparatus in an embodiment wherein the burst detection for the ACC operation is carried out with the low band converted chrominance signal. To control the level of the chrominance signal, by the switch 40 the recording low band converted chrominance signal passed through the low pass filter is taken in during recording, and during reproduction,the low band converted chrominance signal before frequency conversion is taken in after passed through the ACC amplifier 2 . The carrier chrominance signal taken in is extracted only of the burst section by the burst gate 41. The extracted burst is detected of the peak level by the ACC detector ACC DET 71, the result of the detection is passed through the low pass filter LPF 72, and supplied to the ACC amplifier as the control signal. As above, according to this embodiment, the ACC operation is carried out during the recording by the feedback loop consisting of the ACC amplifier 2, frequency converter 3, switch 40, burst gate 41, ACC detector 71, and low pass filter 72, and the ACC operation is carried out during reproduction by the feedback loop consisting of the ACC amplifier 2, switch 40, burst gate 41, ACC detector, and low pass filter 72. Now, another embodiment will be described regarding the burst detection for the ACC operation carried out with the low band converted chrominance signal. Fig. 10 is a block diagram of the chrominance signal processing apparatus in such embodiment. The carrier chrominance signal inputted from the input terminal 1 during recording is passed through the ACC amplifier 2, converted into the low band converted chrominance signal of the carrier frequency fc by the same method as the conventional example of Fig. 1 or as the embodiment of Fig. 9, and supplied to the output terminal 8 as the recording low band converted chrominance signal. The signal generator 59 generates the signal of the frequency 4 f sc which is four times the color subcarrier frequency f sc. The 4 f sc signal is divided by the 1 4 divider 60, and the color subcarrier of the frequency f sc is produced. In the same manner as another embodiment of Fig. 3, the signal generator 59 is controlled during recording of the frequency and phase of the generated signal so that the color subcarrier of the frequency f sc produced by the divider 60 synchronizes with the burst of the carrier chrominance signal after passed the ACC amplifier 2. The signal generator 21 also multiplies the horizontal synchronous signal during recording as in the same way like another embodiment in Fig. 3, when for example recording the color television signal of the VHS recording system. The horizontal synchronous signal is increased by 160 times, namely, multiplied to four times the low band converted frequency fc and supplied to the carrier generating circuit 24 which performs the division and phase shift at every one horizontal interval or processing of phase inversion. As as a result of these processes the carrier generating circuit 23 produces the low band converted carrier of the frequency fc and supplies it to the frequency converter 17. For reproduction, the reproduced low band converted chrominance signal inputted from the input terminal 1 is amplified to an adequate level by the ACC amplifier 2, and supplied to the A D converter through the switch 40. For the conversion clock of the A D converter 50, the signal of the frequency 4 f sc which is four times the low band converted carrier frequency fc from the signal generator 21 is used. As in the case of another embodiment of Fig. 3, the clack frequency from the signal generator 21 is controlled so that during reproduction the reproduced low band converted chrominance signal obtained after passed through the carrier generating circuit 24 synchronizes of its frequency and phase with the burst of the reproduced low band converted chrominance signal after passed through the variable gain amplifier 3. The reproduced low band converted chrominance signal sampled and A D converted by the A D converter 50 is made into the repeated data of the components B Y, R Y, B Y , R Y of the color difference signal. Decoder 51 performs code inversion of the repeated data and separation of data according to the timing of the low band converted carrier from the carrier generating circuit 24 and the clock timing from the signal generator 21 which generate the signal of the frequency four times such timing, and digitally demodulates the data into two color difference signal data, B Y and R Y. The two color difference signal data are respectively supplied to the digital comb filters 52 and 53 to remove the crosstalk component of the reproduced chrominance signal and the higher harmonic components caused by the sampling. R Y and B Y data of the color difference signal,after passing through the digital comb filters 52 and 53,turn into R Y , B Y and are supplied to the encoder 54. The signal generator 59 during reproduction becomes the fixed oscillator to generate the signal of the frequency 4 f sc which is four times the reference color subcarrier frequency f sc . The encoder 54 performs the code inversion of the color difference signal data R Y and B Y to thereby produce R Y and B Y of the digital data, and, based on the counting information of the divider 60, outputs the data repeatedly at a period of 1 f sc in order of R Y , B Y , R Y and B Y , which are supplied to the D A converter 55 as the carrier chrominance signal data. The carrier chrominance signal data is converted into the analog signal by the D A converter 55 and removed of the higher harmonics due to sampling by the band pass filter 56, and the reproduced carrier chrominance signal is outputted at the terminal 2 by means of the switching circuit 6. As a method to carry out the ACC operation, the amplitude is computated from the value of the burst portion of the demodulated color difference signal data,and the obtained amplitude value is fed back. This operation will hereafter be explained. In the first place, during recording the recording low band converted chrominance signal is supplied after, passed the low pass filter 4 through the switch 40, to the A D converter 40 which is used as a part of the digital demodulator for the frequency convertion during reproduction. During recording, the signal generator 21 is controlled as described above to generate the signal which is integer times the horizontal synchronous frequency and four times the low band converted carrier frequency fc. Further, the recording low band converted chrominance signal is controlled of the frequency 4 fc of the signal generated by the signal generator 59 so that the carrier of the recording low band converted chrominance signal synchronizes with the low band converted carrier produced by the carrier generating circuit 24. For this reason, it is possible to demodulate the low band converted chrominance signal into the two color difference signal data R Y and B Y by the A D converter 50 and decoder 51. For reproduction, as explained above, the reproduced low band converted chrominance signal is for frequency conversion and demodulated once into the two color difference signal data R Y and B Y. According to the operation as above, the low band converted chrominance signal during both of recording and reproduction is digitally demodulated into the two color difference signal data, which are used as the color difference signal data to compute the amplitude of the burst. As the color difference signal data to compute the amplitude of the burst, the color difference signal data R Y and B Y after passed through the digital comb line filters 52 and 53 are used. This is because the circuit is desired to be used both in recording and reproduction and it is configured that the color difference signal data R Y and B Y are passed through the digital comb filters 52 and 53 also during recording,but it is not particularly necessary to pass the color difference signal data through the filters in case the low band converted chrominance signal does not contain the crosstalk components. The color difference signal data R Y and B Y after passed through the digital comb filters 52 and 53 are extracted of the R Y and B Y of the burst section during both of recording and reproduction by the burst gate 73, and supplied to the detector 33. The ACC detector ACC DET 74 can be considered as a circuit configured with the digital arithmetic circuit and D A converter. If, for example, the carrier chrominance signal of the NTSC system is converted to the low band , as shown in the vector diagram of Fig. 6,the vector B of the low band converted burst turns into the vector with a opposite direction with respect to the B Y axis of the color difference signal demodulation axis. The result of peak level detection by the ACC detector 71 in the embodiment of Fig. 9 is equal in magnitude to the vector B. As the first method, the data B Y after passed through the comb filter 52 is pulled out at the burst gate, and it is possible to turn the absolute value of such data into the peak level detection result after D A conversion. As the second method, if any deviation occurs in the 4 fc clock supplied by the A D converter 50 and decoder 51 due to delay in response such as of the frequency and phase control of the signal generator 59 or the signal generator 21, the burst as shown in B of Fig. 6 causes a deviation by an angle ϑ with respect to the proper vector ,and the magnitude of the vector B may not be obtained. In order to prevent such condition, because B b and B a of the burst data R Y and B Y in Fig. 6 turn respectively into the following can be computed digitally from the demodulated data R Y and B Y after passed through the digital comb filters 52 and 53 . The result of such operation may be D A converted to use it as the result of peak level detection. Now as the third method, a predetermined value is given for controlling the burst level on the detector 74. The predetermined value is defined for example as BC, and the detector 74 is so configured as to output H of the digital data when B BC and L of the digital data when B BC . Such outputs are smoothed by the rear low pass filter LPF 75 to be supplied to the ACC amplifier as the control signal . In this way, it is possible to control the burst level so that the magnitude of such burst level is in the vicinity of BC of the digital data set by the detector 74. For the method to obtain the burst level B , a method wherein the data of the greatest value among the data obtained in the burst section is used as the data B or a method which averages the data in the burst section to obtain the data of B is possible including various other methods. Fig. 8 shows the vector of the low band converted chrominance signal when the carrier chrominance signal of the PAL system is converted to the low band. R Y axis is inverted every one H as a and b , and the vector of the burst is different from that of the NTSC system . The vector in this case is one generated by adding the vector in the R Y axis of the demodulation axis and the vector in the opposite direction to the B Y axis, by 1 to 1. However, when the carrier chrominance signal of the PAL system is converted to the low band , the burst level of the low band converted chrominance signal is also obtained in the same way as the NTSC system by and the detector 74 can be realized by the same configuration as the second and third methods of the NTSC system. As is apparent from the above explanation, this embodiment ment comprises switch which takes in the low band converted chrominance signal to be recorded during recording and takes in during reproduction the low band converted chrominance signal reproduced from the magnetic tape the detector which detects the level of the burst section of the taken in low band converted chrominance signal for converting it into the control signal and the variable gain amplifier which is capable of changing the amplification ratio or the attenuation ratio of the input signal by the control signal . The burst level of the recorded low band converted chrominance signal or the reproduced carrier chrominance signal is controlled to be constant . It is made possible to use the low band conversion frequency to detect the peak level of the burst which was conventionally detected by the color subcarrier frequency of high frequency . Thus, power consumption in the circuit can be reduced by the low speed circuit operation to thereby realizing the circuit of low speed digital circuit which can be adapted to integration of MOSICs. Furthermore, the detector may have a digital demodulator which samples and A D converts the low band converted chrominance signal at the quadrupled frequency of the low band converted chrominance signal synchronized with the low band converted carrier,and demodulates digitally the A D converted data into two color difference signal data . From the demodulated two color difference signal is detected the burst level of the low band converted chrominance signal . Then, the control data or the control signal corresponding to the burst level is produced. The amplification ratio or the attenuation ratio of the variable gain amplifier is controlled by the control data or the control signal . By this configuration,the detection circuit can be digitalized and various burst level detection methods which are difficult by the conventional analog circuit are made possible, and the detection circuit that fits the low band converted chrominance signal to be processed can be provided. It is also possible to set within the detection circuit the digital data of the burst level to perform the ACC operation, whereby the drift of the burst level due to the temperature change in the environment will not occur in the digital data, so that the level variation due to the temperature change in the environment can be reduced. In addition, when detecting the peak level of the burst with the conventional analog process, the level of the burst responds to the level variation in the decreasing direction of the burst level, which makes it difficult to increase the time constant during holding. But according to the present invention, the level of the burst is detected at every one horizontal period, and the signal for the gain control of the variable gain amplifier is produced based on the result of the burst level detection. Therefore, the response is quick to the level variation of the converted chrominance signal, and the digital data is held so that the detection result of one horizontal interval is held as it is to thereby suppress the ripple in one horizontal period. Furthermore, as the frequency conversion method to convert during reproduction the low band converted chrominance signal into the carrier chrominance signal of a specified carrier frequency, the low band converted chrominance signal is first demodulated digitally into the two color difference signal data and the two color difference signal data is converted into the carrier chrominance signal of a specified carrier frequency. Thus, the decoder for the frequency conversion method for digital demodulation of the low band converted chrominance signal into two color difference signal data is used also as the demodulator of the detection circuit, and the decoder can be operated during recording. This makes possible to perform the ACC operation without newly adding the demodulator thereby simplifying the circuit. Further it is possible to set the digital data of the burst level for the ACC operation within the detection circuit, thereby to control the level of the chrominance signal so that the digital value of the burst level converted in the A D converter is constant. Thus, the low band converted chrominance signal of the signal level corresponding to the dynamic range of the A D converter can be supplied to A D converter. Accordingly, the signal cannot be deteriorated by the saturated A D converted data which exceeded the dynamic range of the A D converter because of the excessive level of the low band converted chrominance signal or by the increased ratio of the quantized noise for the data of the original signal after A D conversion because of small level of the low band converted chrominance signal, and the A D converter can be used with the optimum signal level. Still other two embodiments will now be explained regarding the burst detection for the color killer operation with the low band converted chrominance signal. Fig. 11 is a block diagram of the chrominance signal processing apparatus in an embodiment wherein the burst detection for the color killer operation is carried out with the low band converted chrominance signal. In the Figure, the input terminal 1, signal generator 13, carrier generating circuit 24, frequency converter 17, band pass filter 26, frequency converter 3, low pass filter 4, switch 8, killer switch 7, terminal 8, and band pass filter 5 perform the same operations as those of the conventional example in Fig. 1 or another embodiment in Fig. 2. As regards the detection of the presence of chrominance signal, first,by the switch 40 during recording the low band converted conver chrominance signal passed through the low pass filter 4 is taken in, and, during reproduction,the low band converted chrominance signal reproduced from the magnetic tape is taken in from the input terminal 1. The taken in carrier chrominance signal is extracted only of the burst portion by the burst gate 41. The extracted burst is detected of the peak level or detected synchronously with the low band converted carrier of the frequency fc from the carrier making circuit 24 by the killer detector KILLER DET 76. The detection result is passed through the low pass filter LPF 77 to be compared with the reference voltage by the comparator COMP 78, and the compared result controls the killer switch 7 as the result of judgement of the presence of burst. As above, according to this embodiment, presence of the chrominance signal is detected with the low band converted chrominance signal during both of recording and reproduction, and the color killer operation is performed based on the result of such detection. Now, another embodiment will be explained regarding the detection of the burst for the color killer operation carried out with the low band converted chrominance signal. Fig. 12 is a block diagram of the chrominance signal processing apparatus in this embodiment. The carrier chrominance signal inputted from the input terminal 1 during recording is converted into the low band converted chrominance signal of the carrier frequency fc in the same method as the conventional example or as the embodiment of Fig. 11, and the recording low band converted chrominance signal is outputted at the terminal 8. As in the case of the embodiment in Fig. 3, the signal generator 59 generates the signal of the frequency 4 f sc which is four times the color subcarrier frequency f sc. The 4 f sc signal is divided by the divider 60 to produce the color subcarrier of the frequency f sc. The signal generator 59 is controlled of the frequency and phase of the generated signal so that the color subcarrier of the frequency f sc produced by the divider 60 synchronizes with the burst of the carrier chrominance signal inputted from the input terminal 1. In other words, the signal generator 59 and the divider 60 perform the operation of the signal generator 13 of the conventional example or the Fig. 11 embodiment. Further, the signal generator 21 multiplies the horizontal synchronous signal of the color television signal to be recorded and when, for example, recording the color television signal of the NTSC system by the VHS recording system, the horizontal synchronous signal is increased of its frequency by 160 times, that is to say, multiplied by four times the low band converted frequency,and supplied to the carrier generating circuit 24 which performs the division and phase shift at every one horizontal interval or process of the phase inversion. The carrier generating circuit 24 performs the processes such as above thereby to produce the low band converted carrier of the frequency fc , and supply it to the frequency converter 17. This also is the same as the conventional example of Fig. 1 or the embodiment of Fig. 11. The difference from the conventional example or the Fig.11 embodiment during reproduction, is that the frequency converters 17 and 3 are not used and the reproduced low band converted chrominance signal inputted from the input terminal 1 is supplied to the A D converter A D 50 by means of the switch 40. The conversion clock of the A D converter 50 employs the signal of the frequency 4 fc from the signal generator 21, in the same way as the embodiment in Fig. 3. The frequency of the generated signal of the signal generator 21 is controlled so that the low band converted obtained by the carrier generating circuit 24 synchronizes of the frequency and phase with the burst of the reproduced low band converted chrominance signal inputted from the terminal 1. The reproduced low band converted chrominance signal sampled and A D converted by the A D converter turns into the repeated data of B Y, R Y, B Y , and R Y of the components of the color difference signal. The decoder 51, digital comb filters 52 and 53, encoder 54, D A converter 55, and band pass filter 56 can also be considered as performing quite the same operations of those of the embodiment of Fig. 3. As regards the detection method of the presence of the chrominance signal, the chrominance signal is detected from the burst portion of the demodulated color difference signal, and its operation will hereafter be described. In the first place, during recording, the recording low band converted chrominance signal is supplied, after passed the low pass filter 4, through the switch 40 to the A D converter 50 which is used as a part of the demodulator for frequency conversion during reproduction. During recording, the signal generator 21 is controlled as described above to generate the signal which is integer times the horizontal synchronous frequency and four times the low band converted carrier frequency f sc . Further, the recording low band converted chrominance signal is controlled by changing the frequency 4 f sc of the signal generated by the signal generator 59 so that the carrier of the recording low band converted chrominance signal synchronizes with the low band converted carrier produced by the carrier generating circuit 24. For this reason, it is possible to demodulate the low band converted chrominance signal into the two color difference signal data, R Y and B Y by the A D converter 50 and decoder 51. For reproduction, as explained above, the reproduced low band converted chrominance signal is configured for frequency conversion and demodulated once into the two color difference signal data, R Y and B Y. As the color difference signal data for detection of the presence of the chrominance signal, the color difference signal data R Y and B Y after passed through the digital comb filters 52 and 53 are used. This is because the circuit is desired to be used both in recording and reproduction, but it is not particularly necessary to pass the color difference signal through the filters in case the low band converted chrominance signal does not contain the crosstalk components. The color difference data R Y and B Y after passed through the digital comb filters 52 and 53 are extracted only of the data R Y and B Y of the burst section during both of recording and reproduction by the burst gate BG 79, and are supplied to the killer detector KILLER DET 80. The detector 80 can be considered as a circuit configured with a digital arithmetic circuit and a D A converter . When detecting the peak level of the burst, from B Y data and R Y data, As is apparent from the above explanation, the present invention provides the switch which takes in the low band converted chrominance signal to be recorded during recording and takes in the low band converted chrominance signal reproduced from the magnetic tape during reproduction the killer detecor which detects the level of the burst portion of the taken in low band converted chrominance signal or performs the synchronous detection by the low band converted carrier produced for frequency conversion of the burst portion the comparator which determines whether to supply to the output terminal the reproduced carrier chrominance signal or the recording low band converted chrominance signal based on the result obtained by the killer detection circuit and the killer switch which controls whether to supply to the output terminal the reproduced carrier chrominance signal or the low band converted chrominance signal according to the result of judgment of the comparator . The presence of the chrominance signal is detected and the reproduced carrier chrominance signal or the recording low band converted chrominance signal is supplied to the output terminal when the chrominance signal is present. The output terminal is caused to be released or to be in the signal less state hereafter referred to as muting , whereby it is made possible to perform the detection with the reduced low band converted frequency fc instead of the burst detection which was conventionally carried out by the color subcarrier frequency f sc. When performing the synchronous detection with conventional high frequency,it is difficult to cause the detection to be difficult if the phases of the carrier for detection and the signal to be detected are deviated by the wirings on the circuits or by the delayed signal caused by the circuit elements . The low speed circuit operation can be realized when detecting the peak level or when performing the synchronous detection, whereby the detecting accuracy is improved, power consumption is reduced, digitalization at low speed is made possible, which is adaptable to the integration of MOSLSIs. Furthermore, the killer detector is provided with an A D converter which performs sampling and A D conversion of the low band converted chrominance signal by the quadrupled frequency of the low band converted carrier and the clock synchronized of the phase with the burst of the low band converted chrominance signal ,and a demodulator configured with a decoder which demodulates the digital data converted by the A D converter into two color difference signal data, so that the B Y data of the color difference signal is used as an output of the synchronous detection or the R Y data and B Y data of the color difference signal are operated to be used as the results of the burst level detection. With such configuration, the killer detector is digitalized and the R Y data and B Y data of the color difference signal data are operated . Both of the peak level detection and synchronous detection are made possible utilizing characteristics of the both elements. Thus, it is possible to prevent malfunction caused by noise and malfunction caused by the delayed leading in of the frequency control in the frequency conversion system which have been the problems of the peak level detection and synchronous detection respectively. By further providing the digital data operation, it becomes possible to provide the non linearity with processes and detection characteristics of differentiation and integration to thereby increase the degree of freedom of the characteristics of the killer detector , and the killer detector which fits the characteristic of the apparatus can be provided. Furthermore, as a method of frequency conversion to convert during reproduction the low band converted chrominance signal into the carrier chrominance signal of a specified carrier frequency, the low band converted chrominance signal is demodulated into two digital data of the color difference signal, and the color difference signal data are converted into the carrier chrominance signal of a specified carrier frequency, so that the demodulator of the killer detector is also used as the demodulator for frequency conversion which demodulates the low band converted chrominance signal into two digital data of the color difference signal. In such configuration, it is possible to perform the killer operation,and the device can be simplified without newly adding a demodulator for killer detection. Now, another embodiment will be described wherein a part of the demodulator to demodulate the low band converted chrominance signal into two color difference signals are also used as the detector of the low band converted burst for the APC operation, ACC operation and color killer operation. Fig. 13 is a block diagram of the chrominance signal processing apparatus of such embodiment. In the same way as the embodiment of Fig. 3, the carrier chrominance signal of the carrier frequency f sc is supplied during recording from the terminal 1, adjusted of the level by the ACC amplifier 2 . The low band converted chrominance signal is produced at the terminal 8 by means of the frequency converter 3, low pass filter 4, switch 6, and killer switch 7. During reproduction, the low band converted chrominance signal after passed the ACC amplifier 2 is sampled and A D converted through the A D converter 50 by the clock of integer times which is synchronized with the carrier of the low band converted chrominance signal by means of the switch 40, and further demodulated digitally into two digital data ,R Y and B Y, of the color difference signal by the decoder 51. Here, the A D converter 50 is caused to operate at the frequency 4 f sc which is four times the low band converted carrier. The phase of the clock is controlled so that the A D converted data will be the repeated digital data of B Y, R Y, B Y , and R Y of the color difference signal. These digital data are processed with code inversion and separation by the decoder 51, so that two color difference signal digital data are obtained. The two color difference signal digital data are added to the data before one horizontal interval or before two horizontal interval in the case of the color television signal of the PAL system by the digital comb filters 52 and 53, so that two color difference signal digital data R Y and B Y are obtained which is removed of the higher harmonics of crosstalk . The two color difference signal digital data thus obtained are now code inverted by the encoder 54, outputted repeatedly in order of R Y , B Y , R Y , and B Y by the clock of the frequency 4 f sc quadrupled of the reference carrier frequency f sc, converted into analog signal by the D A converter, and unnecessary component of frequency is removed by the band pass filter 56, whereby the carrier chrominance signal of the carrier frequency with f sc is obtained. The obtained carrier chrominance signal is outputted at the terminal 8 by means of the switch 6 and killer switch 7, which process is the same as the embodiment of Fig. 3. To obtain the burst information necessary for the ACC operation, APC operation, and killer operation supply ,during recording, the low band converted chrominance signal after passed through the low pass filter 4 is supplied to the A D converter by the switch 40, converted into two color difference signal digital data, R Y and B Y in the same manner as during reproduction . The digital data of the burst portion of the color difference signal digital data R Y . B Y are obtained during both of recording and reproduction by pulling them out by the burst gate BG . In case of the ACC operation, when demodulation is accurately performed, if the color difference signal data of the burst portion is the record of the color television signal of the NTSC system, B Y data is provided with a negative value of certain magnitude, and the absolute value of B Y data is equivalent to the result of the peak level detection and is the data of the burst level. When the demodulation is not performed accurately or in case B Y has a negative value of certain magnitude as the color television signal of the PAL system and R Y has the constant magnitude with the positive code and negative code changing at very one horizontal interval, the data of the burst level is obtained from Considering the response speed and safety of the ACC operation, the process may be employed to provide the non linearity with the digital data to be sent to the D A converter 90. Further, by averaging the color difference signal data of the burst section or the data of the burst level by the ACC detector 85, malfunction due to noise contained in the low band converted chrominance signal is reduced. As regards the APC operation, by judging whether the two color difference signal digital data R Y and B Y of the burst portion removed by the burst gate 40 during both of recording and reproduction are accurately demodulated, the value corresponding to the phase error is supplied in digital data to the D A converter D A 88 by the phase error detector PC 84. The phase error converted into analog value is passed through the low pass filter LPF 89 to obtain the control voltage for frequency and phase control of the carrier during recording and reproduction. For example, when recording and reproducing the color television signal of the NTSC system, only the B Y digital data is present at the burst portion,. Therefore the Y digital data as it is may be supplied to the D A converter 89 as the phase error. If the digital data of an angle ϑ expressed by tan ϑ R Y B Y is obtained with respect to the data R Y and B Y ,the angle ϑ is the phase error. Also, because the data R Y inverts at every one horizontal interval in the case of the color television signal of the PAL system, adding the data R Y and B Y to the data before one horizontal interval cancels the components of B Y and R Y and can be handled in the same manner as the data of the NTSC system. In the same way as the ACC operation, the digital data to be sent from the phase error detector 84 to the D A converter 45 may be provided with the non linearity in consideration of the response speed and safety of the APC operation and with the function to obtain the average of the color difference signal data in the burst section or the average of the phase error, to thereby reduce malfunction caused by noise. In the method whereby the APC operation is carried out by the control voltage for the frequency and phase control as explained above, the signal generator 59 which oscillates at the frequency 4 f sc to cause the encoder 54 to operate during reproduction is caused to operate as the voltage control oscillator during recording. In other words, the control voltage after passed the low pass filter 89 is supplied to the signal generator 59 by means of the switch 16 . The signal of the frequency 4 f sc consequentially obtained is divided by the divider 49 to obtain the signal of the frequency f sc, and multiplied by the low band converted chrominance signal of the frequency fc by the frequency converter 17. The signal of the frequency f sc fc is extracted by the band filter 26 and supplied to the frequency converter 3, and the low band converted carrier of the low band converted chrominance signal taken out finally from the terminal 8 is controlled so as to synchronized with the low band converted carrier to be supplied to the frequency converter 17. The low band converted carrier of the frequency fc supplied to the frequency converter 17 is multiplied by n of the frequency fH of the horizontal synchronous signal inputted from the terminal 23 by the PLL consisted of the phase comparator 18, low pass filter 19, switch 20, signal generator 21, and divider 22 as in the conventional example of Fig. 1 . The 4 fc nfH which is four times the low band converted frequency is produced, divided by the carrier generating circuit 24 and produced by processing with PS or PI by the horizontal synchronous signal and the track discriminating signal PG inputted from the terminal 25. The signal of the frequency 4 fc is supplied to the A D converter as a clock. The low band converted carrier of the frequency fc is supplied to the decoder 51, and is used as the signal to demodulate the low band converted chrominance signal into two color difference signal digital data during both recording and reproduction. During reproduction, the demodulated two color difference signal digital data R Y and B Y are converted into the carrier chrominance signal of the reference carrier frequency f sc. The constant voltage from the reference voltage source 27 is turned into the control input by means of the switch 16 . The signal generator 59 generates the signal of the reference frequency 4 f sc and supplies it to the encoder 54. Of the APC operation, the control voltage after passed through the low pass filter 89 is supplied to the signal generator 21 by means of the switch 20. The clock of the frequency 4 fc supplied to the A D converter and the signal of the frequency fc supplied to the decoder 51 are controlled of their frequency and phase, whereby the low band converted carrier produced by the carrier generating circuit 24 is operated to synchronize with the burst of the low band converted chrominance signal after finally passed through the ACC amplifier, and the accurately demodulated two color difference signal digital data R Y and B Y are obtained. Concerning the killer operation, it is necessary to obtain the signal corresponding to the output of the synchronous detection and this is nothing but the value of which the B Y data code of the burst portion is inverted. For example, the data code of the burst portion B Y is inverted by the killer detector KILLER DET 86 to provide a boundary to determine whether the internally set killer operation is to be carried out, discrimination and counting are conducted at every one horizontal interval to supply results of the counting to the comparator COMP 92. If the comparator 92 provides,as a result of the counting, the value which for example is lower than the boundary for continuous five horizontal intervals,the color killer is operated. If the value which is higher than the boundary for continuous five horizontal intervals is given,the killer switch 7 is controlled so as to release the color killer. The entire operation can be conducted by the digital circuit. The data B Y may be D A converted as it is after passed through the low pass filter in the same manner as the embodiment of Fig. 12, and it may be possible to determine whether to operate the color killer by the analog comparator. As have been explained, in the present invention the data to carry out the ACC operation, APC operation, and color killer operation are taken in from the two color difference signal digital data, the ACC detector 85, phase error detector 84, killer detector 86 for major detecting operation and main parts of circuits are digitalized, the operation common to said each circuit such as the one to average the color difference signal data of the burst portion is used in common in one circuit, and it is made possible to configure as one digital circuit 87. The operation carried out by three analog detectors in the conventional example of Fig. 1 are partially used in common of the three detectors and digitalized by demodulating the two color difference signal digital data of the burst portion by the A D converter 50 and decoder 51. An embodiment according to the present invention is explained wherein a part of the demodulator to demodulate the low band converted chrominance signal into two color difference signal is used in common with the detector of the low band converted burst for the APC operation, ACC operation and color killer operation. But as long as the demodulator corresponding to the A D converter 50 and decoder 51 is one which converts the low band converted chrominance signal into two color difference signal digital data by the low band converted chrominance signal and the demodulation axis which is synchronized of the frequency and phase, then, it may be possible by means of other digital circuits. Also, as the frequency conversion method for reproduction, it can be made possible by the frequency conversion by the frequency converter 3 of the conventional example in Fig. 1 and by providing before or after the burst gate 10 the digital demodulator to supply two color difference signal digital data. As is apparent from the above explanation, in this embodiment, the low band converted chrominance signal is demodulated into two color difference signal digital data, the digital data of the burst portion of the digital data is operated, thereby the control signals for the ACC operation, APC operation, and color killer operation are produced. All of the three detectors necessary are digitalized, circuits are simplified by using common operating parts , digitalized operation permits to freely make control signals and to increase the degree of freedom in circuit design. Detection characteristics and response characteristics of each operation are improved. Characteristics matching the circuit devices to be combined or the signals to be processed can be generated, and highly integrated MOSICs and reduced consumption power are made possible. Furthermore, during recording ,the low band converted chrominance signal to be recorded is demodulated digitally, and, during reproduction, the low band converted chrominance signal reproduced from the magnetic tape is demodulated digitally. During both recording and reproduction , each operation is carried out according to the data of the burst portion of the low band converted chrominance signal which is digitally demodulated, and it is possible to use in common circuits to perform each operation during recording and reproduction . Furthermore, as the frequency conversion method to convert ,during reproduction ,the low band converted chrominance signal into a specified carrier frequency, the low band converted chrominance signal is demodulated into two color difference signal digital data, and the two color difference signal digital data are converted into the carrier chrominance signal of a specified carrier frequency. Thus, its is not necessary to additionally provide the circuit to demodulate the low band converted chrominance signal to carry out each operation, whereby circuits can be simplified.