# Improvements in road gullies.

## Abstract
There is described a road gully for use in draining of road ways or the like. The gully is in the form of a cylindrical body which is closed at the lower end and which is provided with an outflow pipe extending from the side wall of the body in a radial direction. A passage is formed in the cylindrical body for communicating the body to the outflow pipe and which is provided with baffle means which extends below the low level of the outflow pipe to form a water trap. The outflow pipe, the body, and the baffle means are integrally formed from a one piece plastics material moulded.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A road gully comprising the substantially cylindrical body closed at the lower end, an outflow pipe radially extending from the side wall of the body, a passage in the body forming communication means from the body to the outflow pipe and baffle means on the body extending below the lower level of the outflow pipe to form a water trap between the body and the outflow pipe, the body, the outflow pipe, and the baffle means being integrally formed from a plastics material. 2. A road gully as claimed in Claim 1, wherein the baffle means is formed by part of the side wall of the body of the gully. 3. A road gully as claimed in either preceding Claim, wherein a removable plug is provided in the baffle to allow direct access to the outflow pipe for cleaning. 4. A road gully as claimed in any preceding Claim, wherein the road gully is formed from a one piece moulding.

## Description
Improvements in Road Gullies This invention relates to improvements in road gullies.Conventional road gullies have generally been in the form of cylindrical bodies closed at the lower end with an outflow pipe positioned on the side wall. Such gullies have the disadvantage that unpleasant odours can easily travel upwards from the outflow pipe and out of the gully. The inclusion of a water trap for the outflow pipe overcomes this problem but has in the past necessitated the inclusion of a separate baffle arrangement which has considerably complicated the manufacturing process for the gullies.It is an object of the present invention to provide a road gully which includes a water trap and is additionally of simple construction.According to the present invention there is provided a road gully comprising the substantially cylindrical body closed at the lower end, an outflow pipe radially extending from the side wall of the body, a passage in the body forming communication means from the body to the outflow pipe and baffle means on the body extending below the lower level of the outflow pipe to form a water trap between the body and the outflow pipe, the body, the outflow pipe, and the baffle means being integrally formed from a plastics material.Preferably, the baffle means is formed by part of the side wall of the body of the gully.Preferably also, a removable plug is provided in the baffle to allow direct access to the outflow pipe for cleaning.Preferably also, the road gully is formed from a one piece moulding.Embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 1 is a side view of a road gully made in accordance with the present invention Fig. 2 is a part sectional front view of the road gully of Fig. 1 Fig. 3 is a sectional side view of the road gully of Fig. 1 and Fig. 4 is a side view of a part of a mould used to produce the road gully of Fig. 1.Referring to the drawings, a road gully comprises a cylindrical body 1 closed at its lower end to form a sediment trap 2. An outflow pipe 3 extends radially outward from the side wall la of the body 1. A passage 4 extends downwardly, externally of the body 1, from the outflow pipe 3 to an outlet port 5 in the side wall la of the body 1.The part of the side wall la which divides the interior of the body 1 from the outflow pipe 3 and passage 4 has a communication port 6, which is closed by a plug 7, at its upper end and forms a baffle 8, which regulates the flow of water in use, at its lower end. The complete road gully is produced as a one piece plastics material moulding using the mould shown in Fig. 4.In use, the fact that the baffle 8 extends below the level of the lower edge of the outflow pipe 3 results in the formation of a water trap between the open end of the body 1 and the outflow pipe 3. The water level in the gully is generally as shown by the dotted line 9 in Fig. 3. There is thus no clear passage between the outflow pipe 3 and the body 1 of the gully which would allow unpleasant gases to travel from the outflow pipe 3 and up out of the body 1.The plug 7 is removable from the communication port 6 to allow access to the outflow pipe 3 to clear blockages.The one piece moulded construction of the road gully makes its manufacture uncomplicated.Modifications and improvements may be incorporated without departing from the scope of the invention.