# TONER, CHARGE IMPARTING MATERIAL AND COMPOSITION CONTAINING POSITIVELY CHARGEABLE COMPOUND

## Claims
Positiv aufladbarer Trockentoner für die Entwicklung elektrostatischer Ladungsbilder in einem Trockenentwicklungssystem, wobei der Toner ein Bindemittel, ein Farbmittel und Teilchen aus einer positiv aufladbaren Verbindung, die in einem organischen Lösungsmittel löslich ist, ein Oxidationspotential von 750 mV oder darunter hat, einen Weißgrad W von 0,5 oder darüber hat und in Form von Teilchen mit einer mittleren Größe von 5,0 Mikrometern oder darunter vorhanden ist, enthält, wobei mindestens 50 auf die Zahl bezogen der Teilchen aus der positiv aufladbaren Verbindung Größen haben, die 1 5 der mittleren Teilchengröße des Toners oder weniger betragen, wobei die positiv aufladbare Verbindung ausgewählt ist aus

## Description
The present invention relates to a toner used in a developer for developing electrostatic images in electrophotography, electrostatic recording and electrostatic printing. More particularly, it relates to a positively chargeable toner which in use becomes uniformly and strongly positively charged to visualize a negatively charged electrostatic image or visualize a positively charged electrostatic image through reversal development, and which can provide high quality images. Hitherto, a large number of electrophotographic processes have been known, as disclosed in US Patent Nos. 2,297,691 4,071,361, and others. Generally speaking, photoconductive materials are utilized in these processes, and the steps included therein comprise forming electrical latent images on photosensitive members by various means, then developing the latent images by using developing powder frequently called as toner , transferring the toner images thus formed to a recording medium such as paper, as desired, and thereafter fixing the images by heating, pressure or solvent vapor to obtain copies. When the step of transferring the toner images is adopted, it is a general practice to provide a step for removing residual toner on the photosensitive member. The developing methods for visualizing electrical latent images by use of toners known in the art may include, for example, the magnetic brush method as disclosed in US Patent 2,874,063, the cascade developing method as used in US Patent 2,618,552 the powder cloud method as disclosed in US Patent 2,221,776 and the method using conductive magnetic toner as disclosed in US Patent 3,909,258. Natural or synethetic resins having dyes or pigments dispersed therein have heretofore generally been used in fine powder form as a toner for dry development of a latent image by these developing methods. For example, a colorant is dispersed in a bonder resin such as polystyrene, and the particles obtained by micropulverizing the resultant dispersion into sizes of about 1 to 30 microns are used as the toner. For production of a magnetic toner, magnetic particles are further incorporated in the toner particles mentioned above. In the case of a two component developer, the toner mentioned above is generally used in mixture with carrier particles such as glass beads and iron particles. For such a toner for dry system development, it has become a general practice to use a positive or negative charge controlling agent in order to improve the charging characteristic. Positive charge controllers conventionally used in toners for dry development system may include, for example, quaternary ammonium compounds and organic dyes, particularly basic dyes and salts thereof including nigrosine base and nigrosine. These charge controllers are usually added to a thermoplastic resin to be dispersed in the resin while it is being maintained in a molten state, and the resultant resin mixture is micropulverized to form fine particles and, if desired, adjusted to suitable sizes. However, conventional charge controllers suffer from the disadvantage that they are composed of such coarse particles that only 30 by number or less thereof have particles sizes that are 1 5 or smaller than the average particle size of the toner into which they are incorporated. Furthermore, conventional charge controllers are subject to reduction in their charge controlling ability after they have been subjected to mechanical collision and friction during kneading under heat and to changes in temperature and humidity. Accordingly, when a toner containing these charge controllers is used in a copying machine to effect development, the toner is subject to deterioration during continuous use. Yet further, these conventional charge controllers, for example nigrosine, show dense colors which provide a serious obstacle to the manufacture of toners in bright chromatic colors. A further serious disadvantage of a conventional charge controller is that it is very difficult to disperse them evenly into a thermoplastic resin. As a result toner particles obtained by pulverisation of the resin differ in their content of charge controller with the result that the various toner particles accummulate different amounts of triboelectric charge. For this reason, in the prior art, various methods have been practiced in order to disperse the charge controller more evenly into a resin. For example, a basic nigrosine dye can be formed into a salt with a higher fatty acid to improve its compatibility with a thermoplastic resin. In this case, however, unreacted fatty acid or decomposition products of the fatty acid salt become exposed on the surface of the toner particles which may result in contamination of the carriers, reduction in the free flow property of the toner, image fog and reduction in image density. An alternative way of dispensing charge controlling dyes into a resin, is to mechanically pulverise and mix the charge controller and the resin powder before fusion kneading. However, this method does not overcome the original poor dispersibility of the charge controller, and sufficient evennes of charging in practical use has not yet been obtained. Uneven or different amounts of charge provided to individual toner particles through friction between toner particles, toner and carrier particles or toner and a toner carrying member such as a sleeve, which are liable to result when a conventional charge controller is used in a toner, can provide a serious problem especially when the toner is used for developing electrostatic latent images produced by digital image signals. Where image signals are digital, the resultant latent picture is formed by a multiplicity of dots of constant electrical potential, in which solid, half tone and highlight proportions of the picture are represented by varying densities of the dots. Accordingly, when binary signals are used to form every portion of a picture, the picture is formed by electrostatic latent images or dots of substantially the same potential. Further, with the increasing desire foryet better picture of image quality, the multiple valued dizza method using ternary or quaternary signals has been proposed in place of the binary or two valued dizza method as described above. When a picture is reproduced which contains a mixture of half tone images and line images, the multiple valued dizza method is needed in order to remove a false contour which is liable to appear in a highlight portion, or to improve resolution by decreasing the size of an individual picture unit without impairing its gradational characteristics. In a case where an electrostatic latent image provided through digital image signals is visualized by development with a toner, the charging characteristic of the toner is particularly important, and there is a need for a better charge controller. It is known to cause a toner to become electrically charged using only the triboelectric chargeability of the toner per se as described above. In this method, however, the chargeability of the toner is small unless it contains an appropriate charge controller, and the image obtained by such a toner is liable to be unclear and accompanied by fog. For this reason, it has been proposed to impart triboelectric charge by a movement or carriage regulating member such as magnetic particles, a carrier, a sleeve, a doctor blade, or a developing material or member for charging. The developing material or member for charging is a material or member for imparting or helping to impart a triboelectric charge to a toner through contact with the toner. If such a charge imparting material is used, the need for the toner to contain a charge controller is minimized, so that contamination of the carrier or the photosensitive member by the additive is minimized. Therefore, lowering of chargeability or disturbance of latent images during multiple copying is minimized, so that even a color toner can readily be charged. However, in order to provide a good charge imparting property to a movement regulating material such as magnetic particles, a carrier, sleeve or doctor blade, or a charge development member, it is necessary to use a substance or compound that has strong charge imparting ability and can also be applied or coated onto the material or can be dispersed in the material. In this regard, the carrier particles are generally used for a long period of time without being exchanged and the sleeve is used for the lifetime of the main body of a copier, so that they must be mechanically tough and durable. There is therefore also a need for a compound or substance that imparts or helps to impart a triboelectric charge to the toner by contact therewith. The invention provides a positively chargeable dry toner for developing electrostatic images in a dry development system, said toner comprising a binder, a colorant and particles of a positively chargeable compound which is soluble in an organic solvent, has an oxidation potential of 750 mV or below, has a whiteness W of 0.5 or above and is in the form of particles of average size 5.0 micrometer or below, at least 50 by number of the particles of the positively chargeable compound having sizes of 1 5 or below of the average particle size of the toner, the positively chargeable compound being selected from According to Claim 14, the invention provides a method for forming an image comprising the steps of forming a digital electrostatic latent image on a latent image bearing member and developing the digital latent image with a positively chargeable toner as aforesaid. The above toner can be charged with a reproducible, well defined and uniform distribution of triboelectric charge by friction between toner particles, between toner and carrier or between toner and a toner carrying member such as a sleeve in the case of a one component development system. The amount of the triboelectric charge can be adjusted depending upon the development system being used. The toner is capable of faithfully developing a digital latent image i.e, it has a large slope on a Vs Dp curve and it can provide a large density difference between dots and can sharply reproduce peripheries of dots. It can substantially retain its initial characteristics including its Vs Dp curve even after a large number of successive copying cycles. It may provide a reproducible image without being significantly affected by change in temperature and humidity it has good storage stability and it may be made in bright and colorful forms, so that it can be used for color copying. A charge imparting material comprises the above mentioned positively chargeable compound and a base material carrying the positively chargeable compound. Herein, the term charge imparting material is intended to cover materials having a function of imparting triboelectric charge to a toner, which are in the form of particles such as magnetic particles or carrier particles used in combination with a toner to form a two component developer or a solid member such as a doctor blade, a toner carrying member such as a sleeve, and other members which contact a toner before or during a developing step. The term carrying has been used to cover the cases where the positively chargeable compound is dispersed in the base material which may be in the form of particles or a solid member as described above, or carried as a coating on the surface or an embedded substance in the surface layer of the base material. A triboelectrically charged composition comprises the above mentioned positively chargeable compound and a base material carrying the positively chargeable compound. Herein, the term composition has been used to cover the toner and the charge imparting material as described above. Accordingly, the term base material used herein is intended to cover materials in the form of particles inclusive of particles constituting toners and carrier particles. The term carrying has the same meaning as described above. The invention will now be further described, by way of example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which A more detailed explanation will be made hereinbelow on digital latent images which may be suitably developed with the toner according to the invention. The concept of dizza matrix in the aforementioned multiple valued dizza method is explained with reference to Figures 1A and 1B. Figure 1A shows a three valued dizza matrix of 2x2 arrangement, wherein regions S₁, S₂ and S₃ indicate three density level of white, gray and black, respectively. Figure 1B shows a four valued dizza matrix wherein regions S₁, S₂, S₃ and S₄ indicate 4 density levels of white, light grey, dark grey and black, respectively. The dot size corresponds to, e.g., 16 dots mm. Figure 2A and Figure 3A show examples of exposure light intensity distributions for effecting three valued recoridng in a light scanning type electrophotographic priter, and Figures 2B and 3B show corresponding potential distributions of electrostatic latent images. The broken lines in Figures 2A and 3A represent output signals for generating a light beam for forming multiple valued latent images. Figure 2A shows output signals for providing a grey level hereinafter referred to as M level corresponding to S₂ and a black level hereinafter referred to as H level corresponding to S₃ respectively in Figure 1A used in intensity modulation for controlling laser output. Figure 3A shows output signals for providing M and H levels used in pulse duration modualtion for controlling laser output time. This is accomplished, for example, by setting the pulse duration for the M level to one half of that for the H level. The potential distributions of latent images obtained by light beams having exposure intensity distributions shown in Figures 2A and 3A are as shown in Figures 3A and 3B, respectively, wherein the latent image contrast of the M level obtained by pulse duration modulation tends to be smaller than that of the H level. As a result, the image density obtained after developing the M level becomes grey which is substantially the same as that after development of the M level shown in Figure 2B obtained by the intensity modulation. Figure 4 shows a developing characteristic Vs Dp characteristic in a case where multiple valued images are developed. As will be understood from Figure 4, in order to reproduce the latent images of M and H levels in Figures 2B and 3B the respective potential contrasts i.e., potential differences from the ground level are represented by M and H in Figure 4 , a Vs Dp characteristic solid line I in Figure 4 having a relatively large γ gamma i.e., a slope of an image density vs. latent image potential curve is required, especially when a sufficiently large H level contrast is not available. However, most of the conventional toners or developers used for developing analog latent images tend to show a developing characteristic as represented by solid line 2 in Figure 4 and have caused various problems. Thus, in order to develop a latent image composed of assembly of digital dots arranged in different densities, it is necessary to control the Vs Vp characteristic more accurately than required for the development of conventional analog images. One requirement for developing digital images is to realize a large slope of Vs Dp curve γ , and another is to control the slope so as not to cause fluctuation thereof. Irregularity of charges imparted to toner particles provides an obstacle to realization of a large slope of Vs Dp curve and is liable to cause fluctuation thereof. A Vs Dp curve having a small slope fails to reproduce H level dots in a high density. Further such a Vs Dp curve also fails to fully reproduce a density difference between the H and M levels or causes a problem that peripheries of dots cannot be clearly reproduced in a resultant image because the peripheries of the latent image dots have a lower potential than the centers thereof. For these reasons, there result in poor images with low image densities, poor sharpness and or low resolutions. The irregularity of charges of toner particles causes fluctuation or variation of the Vs Dp curve when a copying operation is continued for a large number of sheets or when the environmental conditions are changed and leads to the above described problems to a noticeable extent. With the above factors in view, the toner according to the present invention has an improved charging characteristic by containing a specific positively chargeable compound. The positively chargeable compound used in the invention may be a compound which is soluble in an organic solvent except for quaternary ammonium salts and pyridinium salts and has an oxidation potential relative to a saturated calomel electrode of 750 mV or below. The positively chargeable compound according to the invention should be soluble in an organic solvent in such a proportion as to allow the oxidation potential thereof. A compound having a solubility of 1 mmol or more in 1 liter of an organic solvent may preferably be used also in view of a good compatibility with the binder resin. The compound having a low oxidation potential has a property of readily evolving electrons spontaneously to be positively charged and, when contained in a toner for developing electrostatic images, can be a good charge controller which can provide individual toner particles with sufficient and uniform triboelectric charge. A critical factor in the present invention is to provide a sufficient triboelectric charge evenly to individual toner particles. If it is only required to provide a sufficient charge to a toner, a compound having an oxidation potential of the order of 800 mV is sufficient as hereinafter described in examples. However, when such a compound is dispersed in individual toner particles with even a slight fluctuation, the fluctuation in dispersion will directly lead to a fluctuation in triboelectric charges provided to individual toner particles, whereby the imaging characteristics, particularly the Vs Dp characteristic, are influenced thereby. In contrast thereto, a compound having an oxidation potential of 750 mV or below, particularly 700 mV or below, has a sufficiently high triboelectric chargeability for itself, so that it is hardly liable to provide such a fluctuation in triboelectric charge to individual toner particles as to influence the imaging characteristic of the toner, even if it is dispersed in individual toner particles with some fluctuation. The oxidation potential values referred to in the present invention are based on a measurement wherein platinum electrodes were used as the sample and counter electrodes, a saturated calomel electrode was used as the reference electrode, and 0.1N n tetrabutylammonium perchloride was used as a supporting electrolyte. The measured values described herein were obtained by dissolving a sample compound at a concentration of 10 100 mmol l solvent at a temperature of about 25 Figure 5A shows a potential current curve for di o isopropylphenyl guanidine, and Figure 5B shows a potential current curve for diphenylguanidine. In the present invention, an oxidation potential is determined by the intersection of an extension line of an oxidation peak and the abscissa. The result was obtained by using methylene chloride as the solvent. Figure 6 shows a relationship between oxidation potentials and triboelectric charge of toner equivalents respectively composed of 100 wt. parts of a styrene acrylic resin and 2 wt. parts of a positively chargeable compound providing the oxidation potentials measured by the blow off method as explained hereinbelow. A clear correlation was found between these values, showing that a toner containing a lower oxidation potential has a larger triboelectric charge. In the above, the triboelectric charges were measured as follows. A sample toner was mixed with iron powder carrier with 200 300 mesh size in a proportion of 10 90. The mixture was accurately weighed in the range of 0.5 to 1.5 g, placed on a 400 mesh metal screen connected to an electrometer and subjected to suction by a pressure of 25 cm H₂O, whereby the triboelectric charge of a unit amount of the sample toner was calculated by the amount of the toner separated by the suction and the charge possessed thereby. As described above, a compound having an oxidation potential of 750 mV or below, preferably 700 mV or below, is used in the present invention. In the present invention, the positively chargeable compound is used in the form of fine particles. More specifically, the compound should have an average particle size of 5 microns or less, preferably 3 microns or less. Furthermore preferably, the compound should be in the form of particles in which 40 by number or more, particularly 50 by number or more, comprises particles having sizes which are 1 5 or less of the average particle size of the toner in order to provide uniform charge to the toner. When the average diameter is larger than 5 microns, the chargeability of the compound is not fully exhibited and a desirable Vs Dp characteristic cannot be obtained for most cases. This is supported by the following observation of ours. When a substituted guanidine compound used as a charge controller in Example 1 which will be described separately hereinafter was pulverized and classified, as desired, to prepare samples having various average diameters. These samples were respectively formulated into sample toners respectively having the same composition as in Example 1 and having a size of 10 microns, which were then applied to a laser copier Trade name NP 9030, mfd. by Canon K.K. using an amorphous silicon photosensitive member to carry out imaging. A substantial difference was not observed at the initial stage, whereas a decrease in image density was observed with respect to an image obtained at H level after the copying of several hundred to 1000 sheets in a case where a toner containing the charge controller having an average particle size larger than 5 microns and containing less than 30 by number of particles having sizes of 2 microns smaller was used. A relationship between the average particle size and the density of images obtained at H level at the time of 500 copies is shown in Figure 7. We presume that this is because the particle size of the charge controller compound according to the present invention is closely related with the probability of presence of the compound at the toner surfaces so that finer sizes of the compound are present at the surface in a larger probability to exhibit its potential ability more efficiently. If the compound is not in the form of particles having desired particle sizes, it is preferred to use the compound after pulverizing it by means of a micropulverizer such as a jet mill. The particle sizes of the compound and the toner as described above and used in the specification are based on the values measured by a Coulter Counter type II and calculated on the basis of number of particles. Thus, the term average particle size is used to denote number average particle size . Herein, the aperture size and method of dispersing samples may be appropriately selected depending on the objective sample compound. As for a toner having a size of the order of 10 microns, for example, an aperture size of 100 microns may be adopted, and the toner may be subjected to measurement after dispersing it in a concentration of 5 20 and subjecting the dispersion to ultrasonic dispersion for about 5 minutes. For a compound having a size of the order of several microns, an aperture of 30 microns may be adopted for a dispersion in a concentration of 10 to 20 after ultrasonic dispersion for about 15 minutes. The charge controller compound according to the present invention has such a whiteness W as can be regarded as substantially colorless or white. According to our knowledge about the relationship between the triboelectricity and the color of a compound, most compounds having a large triboelectric chargeability or a low oxidation potential generally have a dense color and cannot be used to provide a clear color toner. Triboelectric charging process of a solid material is broadly divided into a contact stage and a separation stage. The contact stage is a stage wherein an electric double layer is formed between materials and exchange of charges occurs. The polarity of a resultant charge is determined in this stage. The separation stage is a stage wherein materials contacting each other are separated form each other and leakage of charge occurs. The amount of tribo electric charge, when considered with a major attention to the contact stage, depends on how readily the materials concerned exchange charges and how many contact points the materials have. The latter mentioned number of contact points depends on the aforementioned particle size of the material or compound, while the formerly mentioned readiness of charge exchange is related with the color of the material or compound in many cases. Thus, in order for a material to be positively charged, the material is required to absorb energy in some form and evolve electrons. Accordingly, a material to be charged positively should desirably evolve electrons at a low energy and stably retain the state thereafter. When these properties are considered in connection with the structure of a compound, the evolution of electrons at a low energy requires a small band gap or work function and the stable retention of the state after electron evolution requires unlocalization of locally generated charge after the electron evolution. Most compounds which have been used as charge controllers, particularly positive charge controllers, have conjugated a double bond in order to satisfy the above conditions. As a result, most charge controller compounds are in dense colors and very few are in light colors. As a result of energetic study, we have found that there are some compounds which can stabilize locally generated charge even without such a degree of conjugated double bond as to provide a dense color and they are free of dense colors. The positively chargeable compound according to the present invention should preferably have a whiteness as defined in the following equation described in, e.g., Shikisai Kagaku Color Science Handbook page 237, right column, line 7, published from Kabushiki Kaisha Nankodo The chroma C and value V of the positively chargeable compound according to the present invention may be obtained in the following manner. A small amount of a sample compound is taken in a transparent bag is compared with glossy type standard color chips according to JIS Z8721 available from Japanese Standards Institute according to a surface color comparison method prescribed by JIS Z8723 to determine the chroma C , value V and, if desired, hue H . Herein, it is preferable to use a mask and place the standard color chips in a plastic bag which is the same as the one containing the sample compound in order to increase the accuracy of the measurement. The hue of the toner is affected not only by the whiteness of the compound according to the present invention but also by the amount of addition thereof when it is added in a large quantity. The above compound may be added to the toner internally incorporated inside the toner or externally as by dry mixing. In the case of the internal addition, the amount of the compound to be added may depend on several factors involved in a toner production process including kind of binder resin, optionally used additive and method of dispersion and are not determined in a single way. However, when other performances are also taken into consideration, the compound should preferably be used in a proportion of 0.1 to 20 wt. parts, more preferably 0.5 to 10 wt. parts, per 100 wt. parts of the binder resin. In the case of the external addition, the compound should preferably be used in a proportion of 0.01 to 10 wt. parts per 100 wt. parts of the binder resin. For complying with the addition quantity range as described above, the compound should have a whiteness W of 0.5 or more and more preferably satisfy a combination of a chroma C of 10 or less and a whiteness W of 0.55 or larger, particularly 0.6 or larger. When such a combination is given, the addition of the compound would not provide an undesirable effct to the color of the toner. As described above, the charge controller used in the present invention is a positively chargeable compound satisfying the conditions of 1 an oxidation potential of 750 mV or below, 2 an average particle size of 5 microns or smaller, and a whiteness W of 0.5 or above, in combination. Such compounds satisfying the above mentioned conditions may be found in the classes of 1 nitrogen containing organic compounds, 2 phosphorus containing organic compounds, 3 metal complexes and 4 organic metal compounds. More specifically, the nitrogen containing organic compounds include compounds having one or more amino groups substituted with an aryl group and having 14 or more carbon atoms. Examples thereof include nitrogen containing organic compounds such as substituted guanidine compounds or substituted triazine compounds. The phorphous containing organic compounds include compounds having one or more phosphino groups substituted with an aryl group and having 14 or more carbon atoms. Example of the phosphorus containing organic compounds include those represented by the formula wherein R¹, R² and R³ are the same or different groups including aryl and alkaryls. The metal complexes include those having a compound containing at least one amino group as a ligand and having 14 or more carbon atoms. Examples thereof include metal complexes having an aromatic compound having two amino groups as a ligand or metal complexes having an aromatic compound having an amino group and a hydroxyl group as a ligand. The organic metal compounds include metal compounds having a directly connected aryl group and having 18 or more carbon atoms. Examples thereof include bismuth or antimony compounds having an aryl group. For example, the nitrogen containing compounds include the substituted guanidine compounds represented by the following formula, from which those satisfying the prescribed oxidation potential and whiteness may be selected according to the present invention wherein R¹, R², R³, R⁴ and R⁵ are the same or different groups including hydrogen atom, alkyl, cycloalkyl, alkenyl, aryl, aralkyl, alkaryl, and heterocyclic groups, of which a hydrogen atom may be replaced by a substituent group, and at least one of R¹, R², R³, R⁴ and R⁵ is a group other than hydrogen. Specific examples of the substituted guanidine compounds include the following A conventional charge controller may be used in combination with the charge controller compound according to the invention as far as it does not provide a harmful effect to the toner according to the invention. In this case, however, the conventional charge controller should be used in a smaller quantity than that of the compound according to the present invention in order to provide a better result. The charge controller compound according to the present invention may of course be used in combination with a colorant to form a toner of a desired color. In this case, as the compound according to the invention has a high degree of whiteness, it accentuate the color of a colorant used in combination and also can reduce the amount of the colorant. The colorant to be used in the present invention may be one or a mixture of known dyes or pigments including Carbon Black, Lamp Black, Iron Black, ultramarine blue, Aniline Blue, Phthalocyanine Blue, Phthalocyanine Green, Hansa Yellow G, Rhodamine 6G Lake, Chalcooil Blue, Chrome Yellow, Quinacridone, Benzidine Yellow, Rose Bengal, triarylmethane dyes, monoazo and disazo dyes. The binder resin for the toner of the present invention may be composed of homopolymers of styrene and derivatives thereof such as polystyrene, poly p chlorostyrene and polyvinyltoluene styrene copolymers such as styrene p chlorostyrene copolymer, styrene propylene copolymer, styrene vinyltoluene copolymer, styrene vinylnaphthalene copolymer, styrene methyl acrylate copolymer, styrene ethyl acrylate copolymer, styrene butyl acrylate copolymer, styrene octyl acrylate copolymer, styrene methyl methacrylate copolymer, styrene ethyl methacrylate copolymer, styrene butyl methacrylate copolymer, styrene methyl α chloromethacrylate copolymer, styrene acrylonitrile copolymer, styrene vinyl methyl ether copolymer, styrene vinyl ethyl ether copolymer, styrene vinyl methyl ketone copolymer, styrene butadiene copolymer, styrene isoprene copolymer, styrene acrylonitrile indene copolymer, styrene maleic acid copolymer, styrene maleic acid ester copolymer and styrene dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate copolymer polymethyl methacrylate, polybutyl methacrylate, polyvinyl chloride, polyvinyl acetate, polyethylene, polypropylene, polyesters, polyurethanes, polyamides, epoxy resins, polyvinyl butyral, polyacrylic acid resin, rosin, modified rosins, terpene resin, phenolic resins, aliphatic or alicyclic hydrocarbon resins, aromatic petroleum resin, chlorinated paraffin, paraffin wax, etc. These binder resins may be used either singly or as a mixture. The following binder resins may suitably be used singly or as a mixture, in particular, for providing a pressure fixable toner Polyolefins such as low molecular weight polyethylene, low molecular weight polypropylene, polyethylene oxide and poly 4 fluoroethylene waxes such as polyethylene wax and paraffin wax epoxy resin, polyester resin, styrene butadiene copolymer monomer ratio 5 30 95 70 , olefin copolymers such as ethylene acrylic acid copolymer, ethylene acrylate copolymers, ethylene methacrylic acid copolymer, ethylene methacrylate copolymers, ethylene vinyl chloride copolymer, ethylene vinyl acetate copolymers and ionomer resins polyvinyl pyrrolidone, methyl vinyl ether maleic anhydride copolymer, maleic acid modified phenolic resin, and phenol modified terpene resin. The toner according to the present invention may be mixed with carrier particles to form a two component developer. The carrier particles to be used for this purpose may be those known in the art including, for example, powder or particles of metals such as iron, nickel, aluminum and copper, alloys of these metals or metal compounds including oxides of these metals and powder or particles of ceramics such as glass, SiC, BaTiO₂ and SrTiO₂. These particles may be coated with a resin, etc. Alternatively, resin particles or resin particles containing a magnetic material may also be used. The toner according to the invention may be composed as a magnetic toner by incorporating therein a magnetic material. The magnetic material to be used for this purpose may be one or a mixture of iron oxides such as magnetite, hematite and ferrite metals such as iron, cobalt and nickel, alloys of these metals with metals such as aluminum, cobalt, copper, lead, magnesium, tin, zinc, antimony, beryllium, bismuth, cadmium, calcium, manganese, selenium, titanium, tungsten and vanadium. These magnetic materials may preferably be in the form of particles having an average particle size of the order of 0.1 to 2 microns and be used in the toner in an amount of about 20 200 wt. parts, particularly 40 150 wt. parts, per 100 wt. parts of the resin component. Another optional additive may be added externally or internally to the toner so that the toner will exhibit further better performances. Optional additives to be used as such include, for example, lubricants such as teflon and zinc stearate abrasives such as cerium oxide and silicon carbide flowability improvers such as colloidal silica and aluminum oxide anti caking agent conductivity imparting agents such as carbon black and tin oxide or fixing aids such as low molecular weight polyethylene. These additives may preferably have the same triboelectric polarity as the toner or have almost no triboelectric chargeability in order to have the toner fully exhibit its effect. The toner for developing electrostatic images according to the present invention may be produced by sufficiently mixing the charge controller compound according to the invention with a vinyl on non vinyl thermoplastic resin such as those enumerated hereinbefore, a pigment or dye as a colorant and, optionally, a magnetic material, an additive, etc., by means of a mixer such as a ball mill, etc. then melting and kneading the mixture by hot kneading means such as hot rollers, kneader and extruder to disperse or dissolve the pigment or dye, the charge controller and optional additives, if any, in the melted resin cooling and crushing the mixture and subjecting the powder product to classification to form toner particles having an average particle size of 5 to 20 microns. Alternatively, another method may be used such as a method of dispersing in a solution of the binder resin the other prescribed components and spray drying the dispersion a method of mixing in a monomer providing the binder resin the other prescribed ingredients to form a suspension and polymerizing the suspension to obtain a toner or a method providing a capsule toner comprising a core and a shell. The thus obtained toner according to the present invention may be used in known manners for developing electrostatic latent images obtained by electrophotography, electrostatic recording, electrostatic printing, etc., to visualize the latent images. Hereinabove, the toner according to the present invention which is a typical and most preferred embodiment of the triboelectrically chargeable composition according to the present invention, has been fully described with respect to its ingredients, production process and use thereof. However, the triboelectrically chargeable composition according to the present invention may also be embodied as a charge imparting material or member or toner movement regulation material inclusive of magnetic particles, a carrier, a doctor blade, a toner carrying member such as a sleeve by utilizing an excellent positive chargeability of the charge controller compound according to the invention. The charge imparting material may be defined as a solid material which imparts or supplements a charge necessary for development to a toner while contacting the toner prior to or during the developing step. In order to provide the charge imparting material according to the invention, the charge controller compound according to the invention may be applied as a coating on or dispersed or incorporated in a base material which may be in the form of carrier particles or a fixed member such as a doctor blade or sleeve. For this purpose, the positively chargeable charge controller compound according to the invention may be used as such in the form of particles, or dispersed in a solvent or dispersant, or otherwise dispersed in a resin or a solution thereof. In the dispersion, powder of a ceramic material such as silica, aluminum oxide, cerium oxide or silicon carbide may be added as a filler. Further, a conductivity imparting agent such as carbon black or tin oxide may be added to control the conductivity. In order to avoid the deposition or accumulation of spent toner on the sleeve or carrier particles as embodiments of the charge imparting material, a releasing agent such as an aliphatic acid metal salt or polyvinylidene fluoride may be added. As the resin for carrying or dispersing the charge controller compound according to the present invention may be those generally used including polystyrene, polyacrylic acid esters, polymethacrylic acid esters, polyacrylonitrile, rubber resins such as polyisoprene and polybutadiene, polyester, polyurethane, polyamide, epoxy resin, rosin, polycarbonate, phenolic resin, chlorinated paraffin, polyethylene, polypropylene, silicone resin, teflon, etc. Derivatives of these resins, copolymers of constituted monomers of these resins and mixtures of these resins may also be used. The coating amount or content of the charge controller compound on the surface or in the surface layer of the charge imparting material for development of electrostatic images which may be carrier particles, magnetic particles a sleeve or a doctor blade, should be appropriately controlled and preferably be 0.01 10 mg cm², particularly 0.01 2 mg cm². The carrier particles as an embodiment of the charge imparting material, particularly the base material thereof, may be those as described above to be combined with the toner according to the invention. The sleeve as another embodiment of the charge imparting material may be formed of, for example, metals such as iron, aluminum, stainless steel and nickel or alloys of these metals. Further, the sleeve may be formed of a non metallic substance such as ceramics and plastics. In order to produce the charge imparting material, for example, the carrier particles may be obtained by dipping the base or core particles in a dispersion of the charge imparting compound in a resin solution or dispersion or applying the dispersion to the base particles, and thereafter drying the coated particles, as desired. The sleeve may be obtained by applying the dispersion of the charge imparting compound as described above by dipping, spraying, brush coating. Alternatively, the charge imparting compound according to the invention may be dispersed in a shapable resin to form carrier particles, a sleeve or a doctor blade. The present invention will be more specifically explained with reference to examples, while it is to be understood that the present invention is not limited to the specifically described examples. In the examples, parts used for describing formulations are all by weights. The above ingredients were sufficiently blended in a blender and then kneaded on a twin roll heated to 150 The above fine powder as a toner in an amount of 5 parts was mixed with 100 parts of iron powder carrier with an average particle size of 50 80 microns to prepare a developer. The tri p tolyl guanidine was obtained through pulverization by means of a micropulverizer and classification and was a nitrogen containing compound having an oxidation potential of 530 mV as measured in methylene chloride as the solvent, a whiteness of 0.9 and an average particle size of 2.5 microns with 60 or more by number of the particles having sizes of 2 microns or below. In Figure 8 is shown a electrophotographic printer to which the present invention is applicable and which was used in this Example. An electric signal was put into a laser modulating unit 1 and put out as a modulated laser beam, which was then passed through a scanner mirror 2 and an f ϑ lens 3 to scan a photosensitive drum 4 along the lengthwise direction thereof. The photosensitive drum 4 was rotated in the direction of an arrow whereby the laser beam could be irradiated to scan the drum two dimensionally. The photosensitive drum 4 may comprise a photosensitive material such as amorphous silicon, selenium, CdS or an organic conductor, which has been sensitized to have a sensitivity in the wavelength range of, e.g., a semiconductor laser beam 780 800 nm . In this example, an amorphous silicon photo conductor was used to form the photosensitive drum 4. The surface potential of the photosensitive drum 4 was smoothed by an AC charge remover 5, and then the drum 4 was charged to 380 V by a charger 6. Thereafter, the drum 4 was subjected to laser beam exposure by image scanning scheme to form thereon dot latent images by a three valued dizza method. M level among the three values or levels was provided by pulse duration modulation of the laser beam as shown in Figure 3A. The latent image potentials were 250 V for H level and 120 V for M level. The thus obtained dot latent images were reversely developed with the above mentioned developer containing the toner contained in a developer 9 or 10 under the application of a DC bias of 280 V. The thus developed toner image was then transferred onto a transfer paper 12 by means of a transfer charger 11 and fixed onto the transfer paper 12 by means of a fixer 13. The toner remaining on the photosensitive drum without transfer was collected by a cleaner 14. The image formed on the transfer paper showed image densities of 1.34 corresponding to H level and 0.69 for M level, thus providing a sufficiently high image density at a solid image portion, with sharp separation between dots and could beautifully reproduce a photographic image which can be a good measure for evaluation of capability of reproducing a half tone. The Vs Dp characteristic obtained at this stage is shown in Figure 9. When 10000 sheets of continuous copying was conducted, the fluction in image density for H level was within 0.07 and within 0.15 for M level, so that a remarkable variation was not observed in the Vs Dp characteristic. Further, when the environmental conditions were changed to 35 This developer did not cause a remarkable change in performances from the initial ones even after a storage for a half year. A toner was obtained in the same manner as in Example 1 except that 7 parts of tri p tolylguanidine was replaced by 5 parts of 1,8 diaminonaphthalene Co complex and the obtained toner was used in the same manner to form an image. The resultant image showed an image density of 1.32 for H level and 0.65 for M level, a sufficiently high image density for a solid image portion, and sharp separation between dots and could beautifully reproduce a photographic image as a measure for half tones. When 10,000 sheets of continuous copying was conducted, the density fluctuation was within 0.07 for H level and 0.15 for M level, so that a substantial variation in the Vs Dp characteristic was not observed. Further, when the environmental conditions were changed to 35 The 1,8 diaminonaphthalene Co complex used was obtained through micro pulverization and showed an oxidation potential of 420 mV, a whiteness of 0.6 and an average particle size of 2.1 microns including 60 or more by number of the particles having sizes of 1 micron or smaller. A toner was obtained and used for imaging in the same manner as in Example 1 except that 7 parts of tri p tolylguanidine was replaced by 7 parts of cerium acetate. The resultant image showed an optical density of 0.3 for H level and 0.21 for M level and was difficult for practical use. The cerium acetate used was a metal salt showing an oxidation potential of 850 mV, a whiteness of 0.9 and an average particle size of 2.9 microns including 70 or more by number of the particles having sizes of 2 microns or smaller. The above ingredients were sufficiently blended in a blender and then kneaded on a twin roll heated to 150 The toner was applied to a commercially available laser copier Trade name NP 9030 mfd. by Canon K.K. for imaging. The resultant image showed an image density of 1.41 for H level and 0.65 for M level, a sufficiently high image density for solid portion, and sharp separation between dots and could beautifully reproduce a photographic image as a measure for half tones. When 10,000 sheets of continuous copying was conducted, the density fluctuation was within 0.07 for H levels and 0.15 for M level, so that a substantial variation in the Vs Dp characteristic was not observed, Further, when the environmental conditions were changed to 35 The N,N ,N trinaphthylguanidine used was obtained through micro pulverization and showed an oxidation potential of 350 mV, a whiteness of 0.9 and an average particle size of 2.4 microns including 70 or more by number of the particles having sizes of 1 micron or smaller. The di o tolylguanidine used was a nitrogen containing organic compound showing an oxidation potential of 600 mV, a whiteness of 0.9 and an average particle size of 5.9 microns including less than 30 of the particles having sizes of 2 microns or smaller. A toner was obtained in the same manner as in Example 3 except that 3 parts of N,N ,N trinaphthylguanidine was replaced by 5 parts of 4,4 bis 2,4 dicumidino 1,3,5 triazinyl 6 amino diphenylmethane and the obtained toner was used in the same manner to form an image. The resultant image showed image density of 1.38 for H level and 0.60 for M level, a sufficiently high image density for solid portion, and sharp separation between dots and could beautifully reproduce a photograpic image as a measure for half tones. When 10,000 sheets of continuous copying was conducted, the density fluctuation was within 0.07 for H level and 0.15 for M level, so that a substantial variation in the Vs Dp characteristic was not observed. Further, when the environmental conditions were changed to 35 The 4,4 bis 2,4 dicumidino 1,3,5 triazinyl 6 amino diphenylmethane used was obtained through micro pulverization and was a nitrogen containing organic compound showing an oxidation potential of 390 mV, a whiteness of 0.8 and an average particle size of 2.2 microns including 70 or more by number of the particles having sizes of 1 micron or smaller. A toner was obtained and used for imaging in the same manner as in Example 3 except that 3 parts of N,N ,N trinaphthylguanidine was replaced by 7 parts of di o tolylguanidine. The resultant image showed an image density of 1.32 for H level and 0.61 for M level and was satisfactory at the initial stage, whereas the image density lowered as the copying operation was repeated to reach 0.63 for H level and 0.41 for M level after copying 500 sheets. The image obtained at this stage contained more fog than in Example 3 and was not practically acceptable. Further, under the environmental conditions of 35 The above ingredients were sufficiently blended in a blender and then kneaded on a twin roll heated to 150 Then, 50 parts of magnetic particles with particle size of 50 80 microns were mixed with the fine powder to form a developer. The developer was applied to a commercially available copying machine Trade name PC 22 mfd. by Canon K.K. for imaging. As a result, clear blue image was obtained at an image density of 1.35 without fog and with satisfactory image sharpness. After 2000 sheets of repetitive coying operation, the image density was 1.33 with substantially no charge and no deterioration in sharpness of image was observed. Further the same copying operation was carried out under the environmental conditions of 35 The tris 2,4,6 trimethylphenyl bismuth used was obtained through micro pulverization and showed an oxidation potential of 680 mV, a whiteness of 0.9 and an average particle size of 3.0 microns including 50 or more by number of the particles having sizes of 2 microns or smaller. A toner was obtained and used for imaging in the same manner as in Example 5 except that 7 parts of tris 2,4,6 trimethylphenyl bismuth was replaced by 5 parts of 2 amino 5 methylphenol Zn complex. The resultant image showed a density of 1.30, which was acceptable, but was an image lacking clearness and presenting dark blue color because of the influence of the 2 amino 5 methylphenol Zn complex. The Zn complex used was a metal complex showing an oxidation potential of 520 mV, a whiteness of 0.4 and an average particle size of 6.3 microns. A substituted guanidine Compound example 1 described before in an amount of 100 g was dissolved or dispersed in 1 liter of methyl ethyl ketone, in which was further added 1 kg of iron powder carrier particle size 250 400 mesh . The mixture was further stirred for about 30 minutes in a ball mill and the mixture, after removal of the solvent, was dried and crushed to disintegrate a slight agglomeration thereby to obtain a treated iron powder carrier improved in charge imparting ability. Separately, 100 parts of a styrene resin Trade name D 125, mfd. by Shell Chemical Co. and 6 parts of carbon black Trade name Raven 3500, mfd. by Cabot Co. were kneaded, crushed and classified to prepare a toner having sizes of 1 30 microns. This toner and the above mentioned treated iron powder carrier was mixed in a weight ratio of 10 100. The triboelectric charge of the thus obtained developer was measured by the blow off method to be 11.5 µC g. The developer was used for imaging by means of a copying machine NP 5000, mfd. by Canon K.K. . As a result, copied images were obtained with very little variation in image density, good reproducibility of thin line images and good gradation and without fog, even after 50000 sheets of successive copying test. In 1 liter of xylene was dissolved 100 g of polymethyl methacrylate resin and further mixed 50 g of substituted guanidine Compound example 2 as described before . Into the solution thus obtained was dipped a developing sleeve made of stainless steel for a copier NP 400RE, Canon K.K. , and the solvent was removed to form a coating film at a rate of 0.1 to 0.6 mg cm². The thus coated sleeve was affixed to a developing apparatus for the copier NP 400RE and was used for a test explained hereinafter. Separately, the following ingredients were kneaded, crushed and classified to prepare a toner having particle sizes of 1 to 30 microns. The thus prepared toner was subjected to a successive imaging test by means of the abovementioned developing apparatus provided with the coated sleeve. During 50,000 sheets of successive imaging, images were obtained without change from the initial stage, with good reproducibility of thin lines and good gradation and with substantially no fog. The surface potential on the sleeve was measured to be 34 V, and the toner was confirmed to be completely negatively charged.