# Magnetic recording and reproducing apparatus.

## Abstract
A magnetic recording and reproducing apparatus in which, by appropriately setting the magnetic head drum speed and the tape speed relative thereto during the audio signal recording and reproducing times, the available recording space and the capacity of the semiconductor memory used for input and output of data are used optimally. The recording speed, for a head diameter of 40 mm, is made to be approximately 2,000 rpm for audio signal recording and reproduction, while the tape speed is approximately 20 mm sec.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A magnetic recording and reproducing apparatus comprising a head drum and pair of magnetic recording and reproducing heads mounted on said drun and spaced apart froa one another by an angle of 1800 , a tape passing around said head over an angle greater than 1800 a seniconductor record for storing data to be recorded on and data read fron said tape and earns for establishing a rotational speed of said drun and a feeding speed of said tape such that a number of audio signal samples recorded in a section on said tape equivalent to a video signal area is an integer value and a number of bits recorded in one section on said tape equivalent to one field of said video signal is watched to a capacity of said seniconductor nenory. 2. A magnetic recording and reproducing method comprising the steps of rotating a head drun having thereon a pair of magnetic recording and reproducing heads spaced apart fron one another by 1800 at a speed of approxiiately 2,000 rpi passing a magnetic tape around said head through an angle of greater than 1800 , whereby each of said magnetic heads continuously contacts said taPe during a first period recording data signals in the forn of PCN encoded audio data on said tape in a second period during which each of said nagnetic heads turns through an angle of 1800 and running said tape at a speed of approxiiately 20 aa sec relative to , aid heads.

## Description
MAGNETIC RECORDING AND REPRODUCING APPARATUS The present invention relates to a magnetic recording and reproducing apparatus of the type eaploying a helicalscanning type recording and reproducing technique. Recently, 8 ii VTRs Video Tape Recorders have become available which employ standardized recording and reproducing formats In these devices, a rotary dru type magnetic recording and reproducing head is employed which includes two magnetic heads mounted on a rotary drun at positions 1800 opposite one another. The tape is passed around the head, contacting the head through an angle of somewhat greater than 1800, for instance, through 190 .With this magnetic head, video and audio signals are recorded on the tape in parallel, slanted tracks, each track being formed during the rotation of one of the heads through 1800 . For tht audio portion, two channel stereophonic signals are recorded using a PCM Pulse Codetector Modulation technique and with the audio signals being recorded in separate tracks fron the video signals. The audio signals are recorded as eight bit samples of the input analog signals, with the sapling frequency being set at twice the horizontal scanning frequency of the video signal.However, in this system, the available dynastic range of the audio signals is often insufficient due to the eight bit sample size. To iiprove the dynamic range of the audio signals, it is necessary to increase the number of bits of each sample In doing so, it has been considered to place the audio signals in the video field since the available space for the audio signals is not sufficient for this purpose due to the standardization requirements. If the audio signal samples are recorded in this tanner, it has been necessary to fill one complete video france with the audio signal staples in order to conserve ieiory space and maintain the desired utilization factor of the memory. Accordingly, it is an object of the present invention to provide a magnetic recording and reproducing apparatus in which the drawbacks discussed above have been eliminated In accordance with this and other objects of the invention, a magnetic recording and reproducing apparatus is provided in vhich the sPeed of the drua head and the speed of the tape are set for audio signal recording and reproducing in such a manner that the nuaber of audio signal samples recorded in a section on the tape equivalent to one video signal area is an integer value and the number of bits recorded in this section is watched with the capacity of the seniconductor nesors employed in the system Accordingly, in the iagnetic recording and reproducing apparatus of the invention, the data can be easily Processed while the utilization factor of the seaiconductor neiory is nade high In a preferred enbodinent of the invention, the rotational speed of the head on which the magnetic recording and reproducing heads is mounted, for a drun diameter of 40 . is set to 2,000 rpn, while the tape is run past the drun at a speed of approxisately 20 an sec. In the drawings Fig. 1 shows a block diagram of a magnetic recording and reproducing apparatus constructed in accordance with the present invention Fig. 2 is a diagram shoving the signal arrangenent on a magnetic tape produced with the appartus of Fig 1 Fig. 3 is a diagram depicting a signal recording area on a magnetic tape established with the apparatus of Fig. 2 in a first node thereof and Fig. 4 is a diagram sinilar to Fig. 3 depicting a signal recording area on a magnetic tape established with the apparatus of Fig. 2 in a second node thereof. Referring to the drawings, a preferred enbodinent of a magnetic recording and reproducing apparatus constructed in accordance with the teachings of the present invention will now be described. With reference first to Fig. 1, a frequency generator FG 2 produces an AC signal having a frequency proportional to the rate of rotation of a drun rotor 1 which drives a magnetic drun upon which the magnetic recording and reproducing heads are mounted. This signal is supplied to a speed error detecting circuit 3, as Is the output of a connand generating circuit 4. The output of the coanand generating circuit 4 is, for instance, in the recording node, at a low logic level in a first connand aode and at a high logic level in a second connand node, the command node being selected by operation of a node designating switch not shown .The state of the output signal of the command generating circuit is inverted for the reproducing anode The speed error detecting circuit 3 is preferably iipleiented with a F V Frequency Voltage converter, of known construction, which produces a voltage having a magnitude determined by the frequency of the output of the frequency generator 2, with the coefficient of conversion being determined by the state of the output signal of the command generating circuit 4. An analog speed error signal is thus produced at the output terninal of the speed error detecting circuit 3. This signal is sunned with a phase error signal produced by a phase error detecting circuit 6, and the resulting sun signal is applied as a drive signal for the drun rotor 1 through a driver circuit 7. The output of a T type flip flop 8 is supplied to one input terninal of the phase error detecting circuit 6. During periods in which a video signal is being recorded, the input of the flip flop 8 receives the vertical synchronizing signal elsewhere separated fron the video signal being recorded , whereas it receives the output of a reference oscillator 10 during recording or reproducing a PCM encoded audio signal. In either case, the flip flop 8 serves to divide in half the frequency of its input. The selection of the input signal to the flip flop is effected with a switch 9. The output frequency of the reference oscillator corresponds to the frequency of the output signal of the connand generating circuit 4. The head drun 1 drives a pulse generator PG 11, the latter producing a pulse each tine either of the magnetic heads passes a predeternined reference position as the drun 1 rotates. The output of the pulse generator 11 drives a reference signal generating circuit 12 inplenented with a type flip flop. Thus, the output signal of the reference signal generating circuit 12, namely, a reference signal SWP, changes state each tine one of the magnetic heads passes the reference position. This reference signal SVP is supplied to the other input of the phase error detecting circuit 8, which accordingly produces a phase error signal having a magnitude indicative of the difference in phase between the reference signal SVP and the output of the flip flop 8. An AC signal having a frequency corresponding to the speed of a capstan rotor 13 is produced by a frequency generator FG 14 and supplied to a speed detecting circuit 15 and a phase error detecting circuit 16. The output of the speed error detecting circuit 15 is applied as one input of an adder 17, the output of which is employed as a drive signal for the capstan rotor 13 via a driver 18. The reference signal SYP is also supplied to a phase error detecting circuit 16. The phase error detecting circuit 16 produces a phase error signal corresponding to the difference in phase between the reference signal SWP and the output of the frequency generator 14.The output of the phase error detector circuit is applied as the other input signal to the adder 17 through a switch 17, the latter being in the on position during the recording node Further, the output of a four frequency detecting circuit 20, naively, an error detecting circuit while operates in accordance with the vell known four frequency tracking nethod, is applied as the other input to the adder 17 through a switch 21, the latter being in the on position in the reproducing anode. The outPut of a four frequency signal generating circuit 22 is supplied to the input of the four frequency error detecting circuit 20.The four frequency signal generating circuit 22 accordingly produces four signals fl, fg, f3 and f4 having frequencies of 5fH 7 5fH 10 5fH and 9.5fH, respectively, where fH is the horizontal synchronizing signal frequency, each tine the state of the reference signal SVP changes. The output of the four frequency signal generating circuit 22 is supplied as a pilot signal to the four frequency error detecting circuit 20, and sisultaneously added by an adder 23 to the output of a signal processing circuit 24 for synthesization. The output of the adder 23 is applied, in the recording node, to a magnetic head 28 through a switch 25 for recording on a nagnetic tape T. In the reproducing node, the RF signal read fron the tape T by the magnetic head 26 is applied through the switch 25 to the four frequency error detecting circuit 20 and the signal processing ,circuit 24. The four frequency error detecting circuit 20 fixes the RF signal with the output of the four frequency signal generating circuit 22, extracts the and and 3fH conponents therefrom, and produces an error signal corresponding to the difference in level between the fH and 3 H conponents. The extracted f11 and 3fH components correspond to the pilot signal recorded in the track adjacent that scanned by the magnetic head, and hence tracking control ocean be effected using the signal indicative of the difference in levels between the fH and 3fH components Further, the error signal produced by the four frequency error detecting circuit 20 is supplied to a node switching command generating circuit 27. The switching command generating circuit 27 in response generates a node switching connand when the level of the error signal produced by the four frequency error detecting circuit 20 does not reach a predeternined range within a predeternined period of tine fron the tine of coanencenent of the reproducing operation.The output of the node switching connand generating circuit 27 is supplied to the connand generating circuit 4. A video signal and four channel audio signals a1, a2, a3 and a4 are supplied to a signal processing circuit 24 via its input terminals IN1, IN2, IN3 and IN4 respectively.Within the circuit 24, the signals a1 to a4 are supplied to respective AID converters 28 to 31, and, as indicated in Figs. 2A to 2D, forned into digital data strings, which are applied to a digital processing circuit 32. The digital processing circuit 32 encodes the received digital signals in a forn suitable for recording. Specifically, a tine base conpression operation is carried out in such a tanner that audio signals, which in real tine span one field, are conpressed into a tine period of one fourth of a field.Further, each of the audio signals al to a4 forays one block.These blocks are inter leaved in such a tanner as to tiaevise distribute error bursts and to allow for the insertion of codes and synchronizing signals necessary for detecting and correcting errors and to provide guard spaces between blocks.As a result, the output of the digital processing circuit 32 is as shown in Fig. 2E. However, for clarity of Illustration, the interleaving and error detection and correction codes are omitted. The output of the digital processing circuit 32 is suitably modulated phase modulation by a nodulator 33 and then supplied to the adder 23 through the switch 34 in a second node, namely, when a second node command signal is being produced by the connand generating circuit 4, and then recorded on the tape T. On the other hand, in a first node, nanely, when a first node coanand signal is being produced by Withe command generating circuit 4, the video signal, applied through the video input terninal IN1, is modulated by an FM aodulator 35 and supplied to the adder through the switch 34. The signal at the output of the FM nodulator is recorded on the tape T.In Fig. 1, a recording system for recording ordinary two channel audio signals in addition to the four channel signals a1 to a4 has been omitted For conpatibility purposes, the two channel signals can still be provided, although this is not necessary in the case where compatibility is not needed. Also, only one magnetic head is shown in Fig. 1, but of course two such heads nust be employed For reproduction, the RF signal applied to the signal processing circuit 24 is supplied to an FM nodulator 37 through a switch 36 during the first node so that the video signal can be denodulated. The desodulated video signal is provided at an output terminal OUT1. The RF signal is applied to a desodulator 38 via the switch 36 in the second node. The denodulated output of the desodulator 38 is supplied to the digital processing circuit.The digital processing circuit carries out correction, saaple interleaving, and tine base expansion on a block basis, supplying the resulting data blocks to D A converters 39 to 42. Specifically the data blocks a1 to a4 are thereby converted to reproduced audio signals by the D A converters 39 to 42, respectively, the analog outputs of which are supplied to the output terminals OUT2 to OUT, respectively. Although the description above refers to the case where four channel audio signals are recorded and reproduced, it is also of course possible to merely record two channel audio signals twice or a monaural audio signal four tiles, in which cases the number of D A converters can be reduced accordingly. With the circuit described above, the signal recording area on the magnetic tape T is as shown in Fig. 3. Here, it is assured that the diameter of the head drun is 40 in, the speed of the drun rotor 1 in the first node for the NTSC system is 1,800 rip , and the speed of the magnetic tape relative to the head drua is 14 35 sex. As shown in Fig. 3, a guard space G1, a PCM audio signal area Ao, guard spaces G2 and G3, a video signal area V, and a guard space G4 are formed with a track angle e of 40 54 between an arrow shown in the drawing and the dirction of novenent of the tapeT and a track pitch TP of 20.5 m.For the PAL system, the speed of the drun should be 1,500 rpn, and, assuring a tape speed of 20.05 mm sec. the track angle o should be 40 55 and the track pitch 34.4 un. The guard bands G1 and G2 provide margins for the PCM audio signals to reduce the amount of jitter, while the guard band 63 Perforas the sane function for the video signal. Fig. 4 shows the signal recording area formed on the magnetic tape T under the conditions that, in the second node, the speed of the drun head is 2,000 rpm and the speed of the tape T relative to the drun is approxinately 20 mm sec.In this case, the guard space G1, the PCM audio areaA0, the guard spaces G2 and G3 a guard space Gs, a second channel PCM audio signal area A2, a guard space G6, a third channel PCM audio signal area A3, a guard space G7, a fourth channel PCM audio signal area A4, and a guard space G4 are formed in the stated order with a track angle o of 5 4 and a track pitch TP of 26 6 un1 this track pitch being internediate the above values of 20.5 LLl and 34.4 m in the cases of NTSC and PAL. If the node is incorrectly set at the start of the reproducing operation, the tracking servo loop will not lock since the speed of the drun and the tape sPeed will be different fron those used for recording. In such a case, the output level of the error signal produced by the fourfrequency error detecting circuit 20 will not be within the predeterained frequency range, and accordingly the node switching cosaand will be produced by the node switching connand generating circuit 27. As a result, the output of the courand generating circuit 4 will be inverted to control the node switching automatically. In the case discussed above where the speed of the drun in the second node is 2,000 rpn, the number of PCM data words corresponding to one field, that is, the number of audio signal words recorded during the tine the head turns through an angle of 1800 , are 720 and 480 for sailing frequencies of 48 kHz and 32 kHz, respectively.That is, the number of data words Is an integer number Moreover, because the number of sailing bits bits per block is 16 when the sapling frequency Is 48 kHz, with each word being composed of two bytes and with eight bytes per block, data for 180 blocks is recorded in each of the first through fourth audio signal areas A1 to A4 for a sailing frequency of 48 kHz .Each of the areas A1 to A4 corresponds an angle of rotation of 40 of the head. Therefore, the available data recording space is used most efficiently. The remainder of the available area is taken up by the clock signal IDG Inter Data Gap overflow margin, etc. In the NTSC system, for the areas A1 to A4 there is roon to record data for about 200 blocks, while in the PAL system about 239 blocks can be recorded. Hence, there is space available in both cases.Moreover, if the saipling frequency is reduced to 32 kHz and 12 bits per sample are employed, eight channels of audio can be recorded 16 bits x 48 kHz 2 x 12 bits x 32 kHz . The nenory capacity H needed for correcting errors in the PCM data recorded in the areas A1 to A4 can be expressed by the following equation M N x B x X x C x F, 1 where N is the nunber of data blocks stored in each of the areas A1 to A4, B is the nunber of bytes of data and error detecting codes within one block, C is the number of channels being sinultaneously processed, and F Is the number of fields where the data sisultaneousls being processed is present. If data for 180 blocks is recorded in each of the areas A1 to A4, H 64.60 64.60 t bits fron equation 1 , with B 10, X t 8 1, C 2 and F 22. Accordingly, a 64K RAM having an actual capacity of 216 65,535 bits can be used with a naxinun degree of efficiency.