# Print mechanism and a method of printing alphanumeric characters.

## Abstract
The technical field of this invention is impact printers, par ticularly impact printers of the daisywheel type. In a daisywheel printer, a print hammer 13 is actuated by a pivoted print arm 21 . The arm carries a magnetic arma ture 24 which is attracted by a magnetic core 28 having two pole pieces. A pair of coils 27, 28 are wound about respective pole pieces and, when selectively energized, cause the print arm to depress the print hammer with any one of three impact forces F₁, F₂, F₁ F₂ . The decision as to which force is used is a function of the area of the particular alphanumeric charac ter to be printed and or the number of copies to be printed.

## Claims
Claims 1. Print mechanism of a type that comprises a movable type element 11 having a plurality of alphanumeric print characters embossed thereon, a print hammer 13 normally biased away from said type element, and means,responsive to a print command which is representative of a particular one of said alphanumeric characters, for urging said print hammer into engagement with said type element when the embossed character representative of said particular character is aligned with said print hammer, characterized in that said urging means includes means 21, 26, 27, 28, 32,Q1 Q2 , reponsive to a predetermined printing condition, for controlling the force of the impact applied by said print hammer to said type element, said force comprising one of n discrete magnitudes. 2. Print mechanism as claimed in claim 1, in which said predetermined print condition is a function of the area of the particular alphanumeric character to be printed. 3. Print mechanism as claimed in claim 1, in which said predetermined print condition is a function of the number of copies to be simultaneously printed by said print hammer. 4. Print mechanism as claimed in claim 1, in which said predetermined print condition is simultaneously a function of the area of the particular alphanumeric character to be printed and the number of copies to be simultaneously printed by said print hammer. 5. Print mechanism as claimed in claim 1, wherein said hammer urging means comprises an elongated printing arm 21 pivoted at one end 22 and biased 23 into engagement with said print hammer at the other end, an armature 24 associated with said printing arm, and means 26, 27, 28 for magnetically attracting said armature thereby to pivot the printing arm against said bias to force the print hammer towards said type element, characterized in that said force controlling means comprises m discrete armature coils 27, 28 operatively associated with said magnetic attracting means 14 m n, and means 32, Q1, Q2 for selectively energizing any one, or any combination of, said m discrete armature coils, in accordance with said predetermined printing condition. 6. Print mechanismasclaimed in claim 5, in which said magnetic attracting means includes m pole pieces about which said marmaturecoils are respectively positioned, whereby each of said armature coils, when energized, causes said arm to apply an incremental force to said print hammer. 7. Print mechanism as claimed in claim 6, wherein m 2, said incremental forces are additive, said force having a first magnitude when a first coil is energized with a first current, a second magnitude when a second coil is energized with a second current, and a third magnitude when both said first and second coils are simultaneously energized. 8. Method of printing alphanumeric characters on a print medium 17 supported by a platen 14 , said method comprising the steps of determining from a print command representative of a particular oneof said alphanumeric characters the degree and direction of rotation of a rotatable print wheel 11 having each of said alphanumeric characters embossed thereon, rotating said print wheel in the direction and to the degree so determined until the desired character embossed thereon is over a print region on said medium, and then forcing a print hammer 13 into engagement with said type element, said hammer deflecting said type element to cause said embossed character to impact said print medium, characterized by varying the force with which said print hammer engages said type element, said force being a function of a predetermined print condition and comprising one of n discrete magnitudes. 9. Method as claimed in claim 8, in which said predetermined print condition is a function of the area of particular alphanumeric character to be printed. 10. Method as claimed in claim 8, in which said predetermined print condition is a function of the number of copies to be simultaneously printed by said print hammer. 11. Method as claimed in claim 8, in which said predetermined print condition is simultaneously a function of the area of the particular alphanumeric character to be printed and the number of copies to be simultaneously printed by said print hammer. 12. Method as claimed in claim 8, wherein said hammer forcing step comprises magnetically attracting a pivoted print arm which is normally biased into contact with said print hammer, to depress said print hammer into engagement with said rotatable print wheel, characterized in that said magnetic attracting step comprises selectively magnetically attracting said print arm at at least one of m spaced apart locations along said arm, 1 1 m n.

## Description
Print mechanism and a method of printing alphanumeric charactersThe invention relates to a print mechanism of a type that comprises a movable type element having a plurality of alphanumeric print characters embossed thereon, a print hammer normally biased away from said type element, and means, responsive to a print command which is representative of a particular one of said alphanumeric characters, for urging said print hammer into engagement with said type element when the embossed character representative of said particular character is aligned with said print hammer and a method of printing alphanumeric characters on a print medium supported by a platen, said method comprising the steps of determining from a print command represen tative of a particular one of said alphanumeric characters the degree and direction of rotation of a rotatable print wheel having each of said alphanumeric characters embossed thereon, rotating said print wheel in the direction and to the degree so determined until the desired character embossed thereon is over a print region on said medium, and then forcing a print hammer into engagement with said type element, said hammer deflecting said type element to cause said embossed character to impact said print medium.High speed printers are widely employed as output devices for such diverse applications as computer time sharing, stand alone word processing, etc..While many different kinds of printers may be used for such purposes, impact printers of the daisywheel or endless belt type are becoming increasingly popular, due to their superior performance and low maintenance requirements.Unfortunately, impact printers suffer from two main disadvantages. The first is that it is difficult to adjust the force of the impact stroke to compensate for variations in the thickness of the paper or multi part form being used. The second is that certain alphanumeric characters tend to print darker than others, which is aesthetically disturbing to most users. In the past, attempts have been made to correct these deficiencies, for example, by selectively varying the amount of current fed to the printing solenoid. Unfortunately, this essentially analog solution to the problem itself suffers from drawbacks as it is both difficult and expensive to accurately control the current which is fed to the printing solenoid. Further, any attempt to alter the current through the solenoid tends to alter the time requires to complete a print cycle which can lead to synchronization problems, especially with daisywheel printers.The invention as claimed is intended to provide a remedy. According to the invention the print hammer urging means includes means, responsive to a predetermined printing condition, for controlling the force of the impact applied by the print hammer to the type element, this force comprising one of n discrete magnitudes.The invention and its mode of operation will be more fully understood from the following detailed description when read with the appended drawings in which Figure 1 is a partially schematic, partially cross sectional view of an illustrative print mechanism according to the invention, Figure 2 is a schematic diagram of an illu strative solenoid driving circuit for use in the print mechanism shown in Figure 1, and Figure 3 is a graph illustrating the magne tic hysteresis curve for the magnetic material used in the print mechanism of Figure 1.As shown in Figure 1, printer 10 includes a rotatable, daisywheel print element 11 mounted to the shaft of a motor 12. This motor is advantageously positioned such that the outer portion of the daisywheel falls between the lower end of a print hammer 13 and a platen 14. An inked printer ribbon 16 and sheet of paper 17 are positioned between the daisywheel and the platen.It will be appreciated that the above described printer elements are entirely conventional and, per se, form no part of the claimed invention. These elements are merely presented for the sake of completeness and to set the operating environment for the claimed invention.Returning to Figure 1, print hammer 13 is retained within a housing 18 and biased upwardly, away from the daisywheel , by means of a spring 19.The printer further includes an actuating arm 21 which is pivotally mounted at one end about a pin 22. A spring 23 biases the other end of a arm 21 into engagement with the upper end of print hammer 13.Actuating arm 21 carries a magnetic armature 24, e.g., of soft iron, which aligns with the pole pieces of a laminated, U shaped, magnetic core 26. One of the two pole pieces of core 26 has a first coil 27 wound therearound. The other pole piece similarly has a second coil 28 wound therearound.Turning to Figure 2, it will be seen that coil 27 is connected in the collector circuit of a first switching transistor Q1 while coil 28 is similarly connected in the collector circuit of a second switching transistor Q2. Transistors Q1 and Q2 are both connected between a source of negative potentional V and ground. The bases of transistorsQ1 and Q2 are connected to a logic circuit 32 which, in turn, is connected to a decoding and timing circuit 33, thence, to the incoming ASCII data signals on line 35. As will be explained, a single pole, double throw switch 34 selectively connects a ground to either lead 36 or 37 of logic circuit 32.In the arrangement shown in Figure 2, it is evident that by selectively controlling the bias applied to the bases of transistors Q1 and Q2 logic circuit 32 can energize coil 27 alone, coil 28 alone, or both coils 27 and 28 together. Returning to Figure 1, it will be noted that the path of the magnetic flux flows from the righthand pole piece of core 26 into the armature 24, thence into the lefthand pole piece of core 26, or vice versa, depending upon the direction of current flow in coils 27 and 28.Now, in accordance with well known magnetic principles, the moment tending to force print hammer 13 into engagement with the platen is proportional to the flux. That is, provided the magnetic circuit is not saturated, the moment is proportional to the flux which, in turn, is proportional to the current. That is, M cut flux FNow if coil 27 alone is energized, M1 OC F1 k1 01 and if coil 28 alone is energized M2 alpha F2 k2 2 Thus, if both coils are simultaneously energized M3 M1 M2 k1 1 k2 02 However, as shown in Figure 3, this is not a linear addition but must be performed with reference to the hysteresis curve for the particular magnetic materials employed.The general principles of the daisywheel printer have been widely discussed in the literature and need not be repeated here in detail. Suffice it to say that, when an alphanumeric character is to be printed, motor 12 is activated to rotate the daisywheel to the right or to the left until the. desired character is beneath the print hammer.Then, at that precise instant decoding and timing circuit 33 directs logic circuit 32 to energize the armature coil. This, in turn, pulls arm 21 sharply downward and forces the lower end of print hammer 13 into engagement with the. daisywheel which deflects, causing the raised character embossed thereon to impact the platen, transferring an image of the character from the inked ribbon to the paper.In the prior art, there was only one armature coil thus, print hammer 13 applied the same force regardless of whether it was printing a . or a W . Similarly, the same force was applied when the printer was printing a given character on a singlepart form or a multi part form, with the disadvantages previously noted. However, in the unique and novel arrangement disclosed and claimed herein, logic circuit 32 is configured to energize either, or both, of the armature coils, thus giving three separate and distinct possible impact forces for the print hammer.One skilled in the art will appreciate that the arrangement shown in Figure 1 is merely illustrative and that more than two armature coils could be provided if desired. For example, if three armature coils are used, rather than two, the printer mechanism disclosed could yield up to seven separate and distinct impact forces for the print hammer.Of course, if the currents in the coils are also permitted to vary, many more impact forces may be generated.Further, if the driving circuitry shown in Figure 2 were suitable reconfigured so that negative currents could be supplied to the armature coils as well as positive currents, the forces generated by selected ones of the coils could be subtracted from the forces by the remaining coils. Additionally, not all coils need be energized at the same time.Thus, it will be understood that the impact force generated by the print hammer is, in fact, a weighted binary function of the energized armature coils. Indeed, any function desired may be obtained by choice of the appropriate number of armature coils. While numerous variations are possible to illustrate the principles of the invention, it is convenient to divide all printing characters into two classes.Class I includes all characters requring a heavy print stroke, for example M , W , S , ect., while Class II includes all chracters requiring a light print stroke, for example . , , , r , etc.. While this division is somewhat arbitrary, its implementation in the printer shown in Figure 1 represenes a significant improvement over the prior art. It is likewise illustrative to divide all print forms into two classes thin and thick.The thin class might include all print forms having two or less carbons i.e. three part forms and the thick class might include all print forms having more than two carbons. Again this division is somewhat arbitrary and may readily be changed if proven unsatisfactory.A typical coil energization scheme for the above scheme is shown in Table A, below TABLE A Thin Form Thick FormClass I coil 28 Coils 27 28Character Energized EnergizedClass II Coil 27 Coil 28Character Energized Energized It will be evident from the above table that the greatest force is applied to the print hammer when the printer is printing a character such as a W on a multi part form. It will also be evident that the least force is applied when printing a character such as a , on a single part form. In an embodiment of the invention actually built and tested, a current of 3 6 amps was selectively passed through the two armature coils and generated printing forces at the print hammer of 1,35 kg 3 Ibs. , 2,25 kg 5 lbs. und 3,15 kg 3,6 kg 7 8 lbs. .,respectively. Within logic current 32, the determination if a particular character is a Class I character or a ClassII character can be made by reference to a hardwired diode matrix, for example, or if the decoder circuit is microprocessor controlled, by reference to a look up table stored in ROM. Importantly, the implementation of the novel print mechanism disclosed and claimed herein does not add significantly to the cost of the printer because impact printers of the daisywheel or endless belt type already contain most of the decoding and logic circuitry required. That is so because the decoder and timing circuit must determine the amount and direction that the daisywheel is to be rotated as well as the precise time to energize the print hammer, both of which are a function of the character to be printed. Also, in Figure 2, a switch 34 is shown connected to a logic circuit 32 to inform the logic circuit if the paper being used in the printer is singlepart or multi part. Advantageously, this switch is set by the printer operator, but obviously, the switch could also be set by some suitable automatic sensing mechanism attached to the platen.Alternatively, the switch could be set by some program bit of the microprocessor typically used to control a daisywheel printer.While the invention has been described with reference to a daisywheel printer, one skilled in the art will appreciated that the invention has equal application to other types of impact printers, including the endless belt variety.