# FORMATION OF SINGLE CRYSTAL SILICON LAYER BY RECRYSTALLIZATION

## Claims
Verfahren zur Herstellung einer einkristallinen Siliziumschicht 45 mit den Schritten,

## Description
The present relates to a semiconductor structure having a single crystal silicon layer on an insulating coating substrate in which semiconductor devices are to be provided, and more particularly to formation of such a single crystal silicon layer by recrystallization. Recently, various technologies for forming a single crystal silicon layer on an insulating coating substrate from a polycrystalline silicon layer by laser beam have been developed. For example, in Japanese Journal of Applied Physics Vol. 19, No. 1, January, 1980 pp. L23 26, M. TAMURA, et al. disclose a technology in which a portion of a single crystal silicon substrate is used as a seed. Namely, an insulating film is formed on the single crystal silicon substrate and an aperture is opened in the insulating film to expose the portion of the substrate. A polycrystalline silicon film is deposited on the insulating film and in the aperture. Thereafter, a laser beam is irradiated on a part of the polycrystalline silicon film in the aperture and scanned on other parts of the polycrystalline silicon film on the insulating film. Then, a single crystal silicon film of a large grain size can be obtained from the polycrystalline silicon film on the insulating film by using the exposed portion of the single crystal silicon substrate in the aperture as a seed. Semiconductor devices can be formed in the single crystal silicon film recrystallized from the polycrystalline silicon film by the laser power, and in this case a heat produced by the semiconductor devices can be effectively dispersed because the silicon substrate has a high thermal conductivity. However, this technology has following problems. Namely, the material of the substrate is restricted to single crystal silicon because it must be used as the seed. The seed area, that is, the portion within the aperture must be usually prepared in the substrate. Further, the conditions of the laser annealing must be changed on the seed area and on the recrystallized portions. A method for manufacturing a single crystal silicon layer according to the preamble of claim 1 is disclosed in J. Appl. Phys. 55, No. 6, Part 1, p.1607 1609, Laser recrystallization ... . According to this document a single crystal layer is formed in a particular area with polycrystalline grains formed in the surrounding region. These grains formed in the surrounding region have a mixed orientation. It is an object of the invention to provide a silicon layer structure which has a single crystal silicon layer on a substrate of a wide variety of materials. It is another object of the present invention to provide a method for forming a single crystal silicon layer by recrystallization using as seed crystals larger grain polycristalline layers positioned on an insulating film on an insulating coating substrate so that the material of the substrate is not restricted to single crystal silicon. Another object of the present invention is to provide a method of forming a single crystal silicon layer by continuously scanning laser beam on the seed area and the area in which the single crystal silicon film is to be formed without changing its conditions irrespective of the irradiating areas. These objects are achieved by a method of manufacturing a single crystal silicon layer as defined in claim 1 the dependent claims are related to further developments of the invention. In the first part of the polycrystalline silicon layer, the annealing width by the laser beam widely spread in the polycrystalline silicon layer because the silicon layer is a high thermal conductivity material and under the first part of the silicon layer the thick insulating film of low thermal conductivity material is provided. The conditions of the laser beam such as scan speed, power, spot area, etc. are determined such that the spreaded annealing region in the first part becomes a state consisting of both solid state and liquid state. In this case, a large amount of silicon grains having 100 axis in a direction perpendicular to the upper surface of the insulating film and perpendicular to the upper surface of silicon layer per se, that is, a strong 100 texture are produced. The silicon grains can be used as a seed for forming a single crystal silicon of long size in a second part of the silicon layer above the second section of the insulating film and under the anti reflection film against the laser beam. The laser beam is scanned from the first part to the second part with the same laser beam diameter spot area , scanning speed and laser power. However, in the second part of the silicon layer, the efficiency of introducing the laser power into the polycrystalline silicon layer is enhanced because of existing the anti reflection film. Then, the polycrystalline silicon layer in the second part becomes a perfect molten state. Further, the second part is positioned above the thin insulating film and the substrate of high thermal conductivity is positioned under the thin insulating film. Therefore, the annealing region in the second part is spreaded smaller than that of the first part. In these conditions, the polycrystalline silicon layer in the second part becomes zone melt state and recrystallized to form a single silicon crystal in its entire thickness of long size and having 100 axis in a direction perpendicular to the upper surface of the insulating film. As mentioned above, the single silicon crystal in the second part can be produced by using the strong 100 texture in the first part as the seed. The anti reflection film may be made of a silicon nitride layer or composed film of a silicon dioxide layer and a silicon nitride layer on the silicon dioxide layer. The laser may be continuous wave CW A Favorably, the thickness of the silicon layer ranges from 0.5 µm to 1.0 µm. The lower limit is defined for forming semiconductor devices in the single crystal silicon layer, and the upper limit is defined for forming the strong 100 texture in the first part and the long single silicon crystal in the second part in its whole thickness. Further, the polycrystalline silicon layer is favorably deposited by reduced pressure CVD process under a temperature of 670 C to 730 C. This is because the silicon layer formed under the temperature of 670 C to 730 C is effectively produced the strong 100 texture with the laser beam process. The thermal conductivity of the material of the body, that is, substrate is favorably 0.2 W cm deg. or more, and that of the insulating film formed on the body is favorably 0.05 W cm deg. Figs. 1 and 2 show only a part The upper surface of the first portion 11 is etched away by using conventional photolithographic and dry etching techniques so that the upper surface of the first portion 11 becomes lower level of 3.6 µm than the upper surface of the second portion 12. Next, a first silicon dioxide layer of 4 µm thickness is entirely formed by CVD method. Then, by chemical and mechanical methods, a part of the first silicon dioxide layer is removed so that the upper surface of the second portion 12 is exposed and the upper surface of the remain first silicon dioxide layer on the first portion 11 of the substrate and the upper surface of the second portion 12 of the substrate are substantially flat. Next, a second silicon dioxide layer Of 0.4 µm is entirely deposited by CVD method. Then, the silicon dioxide film 2 having the low thermal conductivity of 0.014 W cm deg. and including the first section 21 having the thickness t