# Purified antigen isolated from sera of leukemia and lymphoma patients, novel antibodies to said antigen, methods of preparing same and diagnostic and therapeutic methods empolying said antibody.

## Abstract
There are disclosed monoclonal and polyclonal anti bodies which react with B cells derived from Burkitt lympho ma BL and chronic lymphocitic leukemia CLL and do not react with B cells and T cells derived from normal individuals or B cells and T cells derived from patients with cancer disorders other than BL or CL. Also disclosed are a glycopro tein of 70KD in substantially pure form, which reacts with said antibodies, methods for preparing said antibodies and said glycoprotein and diagnostic and therapeutic methods employing said antibodies.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An antibody which reacts with B cells derived from BL and CLL patients and does not react with S cells and T cells derived from normal individuals or B calls and T cells derived from patients with cancer disorders other than BL or CLL. 2. n antibody according to claim 1 which does not react with normal peripheral blood lymphocytes, red blood cells, platelets, granulotyles, non cancerous B lymphoblasteid, G or T cells stimulated by lectin mitogen, T All, AML, CML cell lines, T cell lines and cell lines derived from breast, quary, liver and lung cancer patients. 3. A gircoprotein of 70 KD in substantIally pure form, referred to as GP 70 hereinabove, which reacts with the antibody of claim a 4. A method of isolation and purification of GP 70 according to claim 3, which comprises subjecting the serum of iBL or CLL patients to a series of affinity chromatography separation. 5. A method of isolation and purification of GP 70 according to claim 4, which comprises the following steps a removing from sera the immunoglobulin fraction by column chromatography on DEAE 52 cellulose and eluting the GP 70 enriched fraction with 50 mM phosphate buffer pH 7.8 b binding the Immunoglobuline free fraction to a concanavalin A sepharose column c eluting the bound fraction in b by methyl mannos i de I d passing the fraction so obtained on a Ricin Communis Agglutinin RCA sepharose column and collecting the non bound fraction, 6. 4 polycolonal antibody of claim I prepared by the method which comprises the steps of a Immunizing animals with GP 70 b bleeding said animals to collect antisera c absorbing said antisera on tissue capable of binding all normal human antibodies if there are any d centrifuging the suspension and e recovering the antibody from the supernatant. 7. A method of preparing a polyclonal antibody according to claim 1 which comprised the steps rif. a immunizing animals with GP 70 b bleeding said animals ta collect antisera c absorbing said antlsera on tissue capable of binding all normal human antibodies if there are any d centrifuging the suspension and e recovering the antibody from the supernatant. 8. A monoclonal antibody of claim t prepared by the method which comprises the following steps a immunizing mice with purified GP 70 b removing the spleen from said mice and making a suspension of spleen cells c fusing said spleen cells with mouse mycloma cells in the presence of 1 fusion promoter d diluting and culturing the fused cells in separate wells in a medium which will not support the unfused myeloma cells e evaluating the supernatant in each well containing a hybridoma for the presence of the desired antibody f selection and cloning hybridomas producing the desired antibody and g recovering the antibody from the supernatant above said clones. 9, A monoclonal antibody of claim 1 which is produced from hybridoma formed by fusion of 63 myeloma cells and spleen cells from a Balb CJ mouse previously immunized with GP 70. 10. A monoclonal antibody of claim 1 which is produced from a hybridoma having the identifying characteristics of CNCM number. 11. An IgG monoclonal antibody producing hybridoma formed by fusion on spleen cells from mouse previously immunized with GP 70 and cells from mouse myeloma line. 12. The hybridoma of claim 11 formed by fusion of spleen cells from Balb CJ mouse previously immunized with GP 70 and 653 meloma cells. 13. A method of diagnosis of BL or CLL which comprises reacting serum of patient or other fraction of body fluid of patient with an antibody of claim 1 and determining the immune complex with r renown immunological test method. 14. A method of diagnosis for BL or CLL which comprises the steps of a obtaining a mononuclear fraction of lymphocytes from patient s blood to be tested b adding to said fraction an antibody of claim I c precipitating said antibody by a second labled antibody directed against the first antibody and d detecting the labled antibody in the precipitate for a positive result. 15. A method of diagnosis according to claim 14 wherein the labeled second antibody is labled by fluorescein 16. 4 pharmaceutical composition comprising as active material a medicament directed against BL and CLL bound to an antibody of claIm 1. 17. A composition comprising as active material an antibody of claim I bound to ricin toxin. 18. A method of treating BL or CLL comprising administering to a patient an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising as active material a medicament directed against BL and CLL bound to an antibody of claim 1. A method of treating BL or CLL comprising administering to a patient an effective amount of a composition comprising as active material an antibody of claim 1 bound to ricin toxin. 20. A method of treating BL or CLL comprising administering to a patient an effective amount of the antibody of claim 1. 21. A method of in vivo removal of CLL or BL cells from plasma by means of techniques related to hemoperfusion comprising subjecting the plasma of a patient to a selective binding of tumor cells to anti GP 70 attached to a solid support. 22. A method of an in viuo imaging of BL tumors br means of antibody of claim 1 labled by radioactive agent. 23. A pharmaceutical composition comprising as active material an antibody of claim 1.

## Description
Purified antigen isolated from sera of leukemia and lymphoma patients1 novel antibodies to said antigen,methods of preparing same and diagnostic and therapeutic methods employing said antibody The present invention relates to a newly identified leukemia and lymphoma associated antigen, to polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies to said antigen, to methods of producing said antibodies and said antigen, to a hybridoma producing said monoclonal antibody and to therapeutic and diagnostic methods employing this antibodies. Most leukemias and lymphoma are characterized br a maturation arrest at a defined point along the developmental pathway, resulting in a rapid proliferation of lymphoid cells of a given differentiation stage. Accurate characterization of the differentiation stage of leukemia or lymphoma is very important for prognosis and requires accurate definition of the various stages of differentiation along the developmental pathway of lymphoid cells, as outlined br Volger et al. in Prog. in Hemat.11, 1 45, 1979. Two principal classes of lymphocytes are involved in the immune system of humans and animals. The first of these the thymus derived cells or T cells is differentiated in the thymus from haemopoietic stem cells. While within the thymus, the differentiating cells are termed thymocytes. The mature T cells emerge from the thymus and circulate between the tissues, lymphatics, and the bloodestream. These T cells form a large prportion of the pool of circulating small lymphocytes. They have Immunological speclilcity and are directly Involved In cell mediated immune response such as graft rejection a effector cells.Although T cells do not secrete humoral antibodies, they are sometimes required for the secretion of these antibodies by the second class of lymphocytes discussed below.Some types of T cells play a regulating function in other aspects of the Immune system. The mechanism of this process of cell cooperation is not yet completely understood. Maturation arrest of these types of cells and unbalanced proliferation are characteristic to T type leukemias. The second class of lymphocytes the bone marrow derived cells or B cells are those which secrete antibodies. They also develop from haemopoietic stem cells, but their differentiation is not determined by the thymus. In birds, they are differentlated in an organ analogous to the thymus, called the Burst of Fabriclus. In mammals, however, no equivalent organ has been discovered, and it Is thought that these B cells differentiate within the bone marrow. The ability to identify and or suppress classes or subclasses of B cell Is important for diagnosis or treatment of various 8 leukemias and lymphoma . For example, certain leukemias and lymphomas have differing prognosis depending upon whether they are of B cell or T cell origin, and upon the degree of maturation of these cells, Thus, evaluation of the prognosis of the disease depends upon distinguishing between classes of lymphomcytes and stage of maturation. See, for example, A.C. Aisenberg and J.C. Long, in the American Journal of Medicine, 58, 300 March, 1975 D. Belpomme et al. in Immunological Diagnosis of Leukemias andLymphomas, S. Thierfelder et al., eds., Springer, Heidelberg, 1977, 33 45 and G. Belpomme et al. in British Journal of Haematology 38, 85, 1978. Setieral markers for B cell differentiation were determined as follows a hypothetical B cell progenitor committed to differentiate along the B cell pathway gives rise to a pre B cell, which is characterized by high rate of bNA synthesis along with the appearance of cytoplasmic immunoglobulin clg of the IgM or IgO type, the presence of the so called B cell differentiation marker BDA found on all B cells, and the presence of the DR antigen of the HLA complex. Acute lymphoblastic leukemia ALL is characteristic to this stage of differentiation. The next defined stage of differentiation is characterized by the loss of the proliferative capacity, whereas most other marker are the same.Chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL and Burkitt s lymphoma BL are related to this stage of differentiation. The next three stages of development are referred to as maturation steps in which typical B cell markers appear, including a surface membrane immunoolobulins Sming b appearance of receptors for mouse erythrocytes c appearance of full mitogen antigen response d appearence of receptors for Fc protions of IgG and e appearance of receptors for C3 component of complement and receptors toEpstein Barr virus EBV . Non Hodgkin s lymphomas are characteristic of this stage of differentiation. The final stage of differentiation is characterized by the appearance of plasma cells and memory cells following stimulation by mitogen or antigen.Later, plalsma cells lose DR antigen, SmIg and some of the Fc receptors and aquire clg of the IgM IgG type and produce antibodies. See, for example, T. Godal and S. Funderud in Advances in Cancer Res., 36, 211 255, 1982 and C.M. Balch et al. In JImmunol.123, 2322 2328, 1978. 4 lot of research effort has recently been devoted to defining B cell associated antigens and prepapring antibodies reacting therewith. Greaves at al. in Clin. Immunol. immunopath.4, 67 84, 1975, defined an antigen common to most accute lymphoblastic leukemia CALL and to chronic myelogenous leukemia C iL in the blast crisis. The antigen is a glycoprotein of about 100 KD molecular weight of 100,000 and monoclonal antibodies reacting with this antigen were prepared by Ritz et al. as described in Nature, 283, 583 585, 1980. Those antibodies do not react with either B cells or T cells from peripheral blood, nor with B cells from tonsils and lymph nodes. However, they do react with cells from bone marrow and with cells from fetal liver.Therefore CALLA is considered an antigen found on early type of pre B cells, and it is diagnostically employed as a marker forALL. Stanchenko et al in J. Immunol., 125, 1678 1685, 1980 andNadler et al. In J. Immunol., 126,1941 1947, 1981 were successful in obtaining monoclonal antibodies F and B1 specific for B cells recognizing normal B cells of all stages of differentiation exceot for plasma and memory cells. These antigens of 30 KD B and 140Kd B2 were found on ALL and CLL type of leukemias and B cell type lymphomas. Lymphocytes from CML patient were not reactive neither with B1 or B2 antibodies except for blast crisis, as reported by Nadler et al. in Prog. in Haematology 12, 187 225, 1982. Therefore these antibodies can not serve as a tool In diagnosing a specific type of leukemia or lymphoma. Burkitt s lymphoma BL associated antigen BLA and antibodies reactive with BL and CLL which has been assigned the number 38.13 were described by Weils et al. in Poc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 78, 6485 6488, 1981. However, Weils et al. ibid. found that 38.13 also react with other types of leukemias and lymphomas.Therefore, the clinical value of this monoclonal antibody has not yet been evaluated, and is probably limited, because of its rather broad spectrum of specificity. Naciler et al. in J. Immunol, 131, 244 250, 199S have characterized a novel antibody B4 to an antigen of a molecular weight over 120,000, which reacts with a large spectrum of normal and malignant Cells including normal peripheral blood cells as well as pre All cells. Thus By is of no diagnostic value. LB 1 and BA 1, monoclonal antibodies prepared by Yokochi et al. as described in J. Immunol. 129, 823 827, 1982 and Abramson et al. in J. Immunol. 126, 83 88, 1981 respectively, were found to be of the Pan B type and therefore of no diagnostic value for their broad recognition of all stages of B cells differentiation. Burkitt s lymphoma Is a relatively rare form of acute lymphoma occurring mostly in young children. Chronic lymphocytic leuKernia, on the other hand, is the most common leukemia and almost half of all known leukemia lymphcma cases are of CLL type.CLL is a relatively benign form of leukemia which effects mostly people of European origin of over fifty years of age and is characterized by an increase in the number of B cell lymphocytes, by lymph gland enlargement and splenic enlargement. There may be some weight loss, but patients may often carry on for se years without treatment and without any major symptoms developing. Under treatment the patient can be kept in reasonable good health for many years, the life span in this disease is measured in terms of 5, 10 and even 15 years. Ultimately, however, In most cases transition to prelymphocytic leukemia PLL or to acute lymphoblastic leukemia ALL occurs and within a few weeks or months death ensues.An early detection of the transition of the dIsease, followed by an appropriate treatment could prolong the life of patients affected by CLL and ultimately suppress the disease completely. As stated above, CL is associated with lymphocytosis, i.e. an increase in white blood cell count to over ten million cells per cubic centimeter from the normal level of 1 2 million cells per cubic centimeter In healthy subjects. However, since lymphocytosis is associated with many other forms of leukemia as well as with other non malignant diseases such as infectious mononucleosis and other viral and bacterial Infections, it could merely serve as an indication to a disorder. The staging of CLL was described by Rai et al. in Blood 46, 219 234, 1975.According to Rai s staging, stage 0 is diagnosed predominantly by a long series of tests such as lymphocytosis of 10,000 cells mm and over. However a positive diagnosis of CLL requires additionally the following of surface markers i.e.Smig, mouse erythrocytes rosetting, and CAL A the following of cytological mariner, i.e. non specific esterase, acid phosphatase and periodic acid schiff stain Pas and cell morphology. Each of the about mentioned markers is not specific to CLL and actually most of them are negative to CLL and it is only the combined data obtained from all these tests that can diagnose CLL at stage 0. The present complexity of diagnosing CLL and the inability to detect it prior to actual complaints by the patient is, of course, a great disadvantage in the early detection and treatment of CLL patients. It is therefore, thr object of the present Invention to provide for a direct, one step diagnosis of CLL and BL. The test is based on an immunological reaction between a novel antibody and t newly identified associated antigen present on B lymphocytes from peripheral blood of CLL and BL patients. It Is accordingly the object of the invention to provide for, the nouel antibody against an antigen found on CLL and i3L cells and for methods for its preparation. It Is also an object of the invention to provide hybridomas which produce antibodies against an antigen found on CLL and BL cell . It is a further object of the invention to provide for the antigen mentioned above in a substantially pure form and for methods of its isolation and purification. further object is to provide for methods of treating CLL and BL patients. A still further object is to provide for pharmaceutical composition containing the antibody together with a medlcuent against CLL and BL cells. Other objects and advantages of the Invention will become apparent from the disclosure of the invention. In satisfaction of the forgoing objects, there is provided by this Invention monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies which react with B cells derived from BL and CLL patients and do not react with E cells and T cells derived from normal individuals or S cells and T cells derived from patients with cancer disorders other than BL or CLL. Preferably the antibodies of the invention do not react with peripheral blood lymphocytes, red blood cells, platelets, granulocytes, non cancerous B lymphoblastoid cell lines, B or T cells stimulated by lectin mitogen, T All, AML, CML cell lines, various T cell lines and cell lines derived from breast, colon, ovary, liver and lung cancer patients. Therefore, the antibodies of the invention are specific to an antigen present in B cells of BL and CLL cells. The invention also prouldes for a glycoprotein of 70 KD hereinafter referred to as GP 70. The GP 7D is isolated and purified from sera of CLL and SL patients. Methods of obtaining GP 70 from sera of BL and CLL patients by serIes of affinity chromatography separation are also provided by the invention. Preferably the polyclonal antibodies of the invent Inn are prepared by a method which comprises the following steps a immunizing animals with GP 701 b bleeding said animals to collect antisera c absorbing said antisera on tissue capable of binding all normal human antibodies if there are any d centrifuging the suspension and e recovering the antibody from the supernatant. The Invent ion also provides for a novel hybridoma producing a novel monoclonal antibody to an antigen found on CLL and BL. The hybridoma was prepared generally following the method of Milstein and Kohler in Nature 256, 495 497, 1975. Preferably. following immunization of mice with pure GP 70 isolated from serum of BL patients, the spleen cells of the immunized mice were fused w th cells, from a mouse myeloma lines 653 and the resultant hybridomas screened for those with supernatants containing antibody which gave selective binding to BL patient lymphocytes.The desired hybridomas were subsequently cloned and characterized. Inter alia, hybridoma B2 was obtained which produces an antibody anti GP 70 against an antigen on essentially most CLL and BL cells. Not only does this antibody react with tne above mentioned cells, but it also does not react with normal peripheral blood cells. This particular hybridoma B2 produces antibodies of the IgM type. The hybridoma B2 which is a preferred embodiment of the present invention, was deposited on with the National Collection of Cultures of Microorganisms CNCM of the Pasteur Institute, Paris, France, and was assigned the number Thinvention also provides for diagnostic and therapeutic methods employing the antibodies of the invention and for pharmaceutical compostions containing them. The antibodies of the Invention provide for a method of diagnosis of BL and CLL which comprises reacting serum of patient or other fraction of body fluid of patient with the antibody and determining the immune complex if obtained with a known immunological test method. Preferably, z method of diagnosis forBL and CLL in accordance with the invention comprises of the following stepsi aJ obtaining a mononuclear fraction of lymphocytes from patient s blood to be tested b adding to said fraction the antibody of the invention c preclpitating said antibody by a second babied antibody directed against the first antibody and d detecting the labled antibody in the precipitate for a positive result, Preferably, the second antibody mentioned above is labled by fluorescein.However, other common lables could also be employed. lt should be contemplated that the present invention extends also to other known Immunological methods such as RIA radio immuno assay and ELISA Enzyme linked immuno assay employing the antibodies of the invention for the detection of BL and CLL. The invention also provides for an in vivo imaging of BL tumor by means of radioactive agent bound to anti GP 70. Common radioactive agents for imaging are applicable e.g. Na 1. The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention comprises as active material a medicament against BL and CLL bound to anti GP 70 together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Such pharmaceutical compositions are effective in targeting the medicament to the sites containing GP 70 and therefore allow a sIgnificant decrease in the amount of active material necessary for treatment. Examples of medicaments for use in the pharmaceutical composition are 5 fluoro uracil and adriamycin. The invent Ion also provides for toxin composition which are effective in targeting ricin toxin bound to anti GP 70 which recoqnizes and binds to the tumor cells. In accordance with the invention, there are also provided several methods of treating BL and CLL as follow a administering to a patient an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition containing a medicament directed against BL and CoL bound to anti OP 70. b administering to a patient an effective amount of anti OP 70 bound to ricin toxin. c administering to a patient an effective amount of anti OP 70 with no drug attached to it, for Immune killing of cancer cell by complimented mediated lysis. d removal of CLL and BL from plasma by means of techniques related to hemoperfusion comprising subjecting the plasma to selective binding of tumor cell to anti GP 70 bound to solid support. The invention is further illustrated by the following non limiting examples Example 1Isolation and purification of OP 70 from BL sera a. Stage I. One hundred ml pooled BL sera containing 129 protein are dialysed against 20 mM phosphate Buffer PB at pH 7.8 and passed through a DEAE 52 cellulose column pre equilibrated with same buffer. Unbound material immunoglobulin fraction is removed.Sound material is eluted br passing 50 mM PB at pH 7.8. b. Stage II. Bound eluted material containing 2 mg protein Is passed through a concanavalin A Con A sepharose column. Passed material is discarded, Bound material Is eluted by passing methyl mannoside 0.1 M in 50 nM PB at pH 7.8 .c. Stage III. Bound eluted material Is passed through a Ricin Communes gglutinin RCA sepharose column and the non bound material is collected to yield about O.lmg of homogeneous GP 70. Purification stages I III are shown schematically in Figure 1. Example 2Production of polyclonal anti GP 70 Female New Zeland rabbits 1.5 kg each , are immunized with purified preparation of GP 70 10 g ml in PBS containing complete Freund s Aduvant 1 1 v v . Immunization performed by intramuscular Injection followed by subcutaneous injections at 3 4 places, Rabbits are Injected in the above mentioned procedure every two weeks and bleeding Is performed 10 days post injection.The highest titer of anti GP U antibodies is obtained at the fourth bleeding. Pooled antisera from the fourth bleeding are absorbed on ground powder af lyophilized human spleen slices. Briefly, spleen powder is washed three times with phosphate buffered saline PBS .Equivolume amount of antiserum or normal rabbit serum NRS is added, followed by resuspension and incubation at 37 C with vigorous shaking. Suspension is than centrifuged for 20 minutes at 10,0009 and the absorbed antiserum in the supernatant is collected,Example 3Production of monoclonal anti GP 70A. Immunization and Somatic Cell Hybridization Female Balb cJ mice Hadassah Hospital Farm 6 8 weeks old were immunized intraperitoneally with 5 g of purified Gp 70 In0.2 ml of phosphate buffered saline at 30 dar intervals. Four days after the third immunization, spleens were removed from the mice, and a single cell suspencion was made by pressing the tissue through a stainless steel mesh. Cell fusion was carried out according to the procedure developed by Kohler and Milstein ibid . One hundred million splenocytes were fused In 0.5 ml of a fusion medium comprising 35 polyethylene glycol PEG 1000 and 5 dimethylsulfoxide in RPMI 1640 medium Gibco, Grand Island, NY with two hundred million 653 myeloma cells supplied by Dr. R. Laskov, Hadassah Medical School, Jerusalem. These mreloma cells are non secretor cells, B. Selection and Growth of Wybridoma After cell fusion, cells were cultured in Hat medium Hypoxanthine, aminopterin, and thymidime at 37 C with 5 CO1 in a humid atmosphere. Two weeks later, 25 to 50 l of supernatant from cultures containing hybridomas were added to a pellet of one mtllion Daudi cells.Detection of mouse hybridoma antibodies binding to these cells was determined by indirect immunofluorescence. Briefly, cells incubated with culture suppernatants were stained with fluorescinated goat anti mouse IgG G M FITC Bio Yeda Laboratories, Rehovot, Israel and the fluorescent antibody coated cells were analysed by Zeiss fluorescence microscope and subsequently analyzed on the fluorescence activated cell sorter FACS Becton Dickinson, as described in example 5. Hybridoma cultures containing antibodies reacting specifically with Daudi cells were selected and cloned.Subsequently, the clones were transferred intraperitoneally by injecting one million cells of a given clone 0.2 ml volume intoBalb cJ mice primed with 2,6,10,14 tetramethylpentadecane, sold by Aldrich Chemical Company under the name of Pristane. The malignant ascites from these mice were then used to characterize lymphocytes as described below in example 4. The subject hybridoma antibody to GP 70 was demonstrated by standard techniques to be ofIgM class.One of the obtained hybridomas was hybridoma B2 CNCMExample 4Characterization of anti GP 70 ReactivityA. Isolation of Lymphocyte Populations Human peripheral blood mononuclear cells were isolated from healthr volunteer donors or leukernia lymphoma patients br Ficoll Hypaque density gradient centrifugation Pharmacia FineChemicals, Sweden following the technique of Boyum, Scand.J.Clin. Lab. Invest. 21 Suppl. 97 77, 1968. Normal human macrophages were obtained from the mononuclear population by adherence to polystyrene. Thus, mononuclear cells were resuspended In final culture media RPMI 1640, 2.5 mM HEPES 4 2 hydroxyethyl 1 piperazinepropane sulfonic acid buffer, 0.5 sodium bicarbonate 200 mM L glutamine, and 1 penicillin streptomycin, supplemented with 20 heat activated human AS serum at a concentration of two million cells and incubated in plastic petri dishes 100 x 20 mm Falcon Tissue Culture Dish Falcon, Oxfard, CA at 370 C overnight. After extensive washing to remove non adheront cells, the adhertent population was detached br brisk washing with cold serum free medium containing 2.5 mM EDTh and occasional scraping with the rubber tip of a disposable syringe plunger. Greater than 85 of the cell population was capable of ingesting latex particles and had morphologic characteristics of monocytes br Wright Giemsa staining. B. Normal Lymph nodes and spleen Normal human spleen was obtained from splenetomized patients and lymph nodes from patients with suspected breast cancer. Only negative lymph nodes were used. Freshly obtained portions oX the organs were immediately placed in 5 fetal calf serum in medlum 199 Gibco , finely minced with forceps and scissors, and subsequently made into single cell suspensions by being pressed through wire mosh. The cells were next layered over Ficoll Hypaque spun and washed as previously described in section 4 above. The mononuclear fraction so obtained contained 95 viable cells.C. Blood cells, tonsils and bone marrow. Blood cells were collected from veins of healthy volunteers or leukemia patients. Heparin was used as an anti coagulant. The mononuclear fraction and platelet fraction were obtained from the Interphase of a Ficoll Hrpaque Farmacia Fine Chemicals, Sweden gradient. Oranulocytes and erythrocytes were collected from the pellet of the gradient. Granulocytes were obtained from pellet fraction following hemolysis of erythrocytes in hypotonic PBS 1 10 tonicity followed by a restoration of isotonicity with concentrated PBS. All cell types thus obtained were washed three times with PBS and immunofluorescence test was performed on the same day. Tonsils were obtained from Dr. R. Feinmesser and bone marrow from Dr. S. Slavin both from Hadassah Hospital, Jerusalem. Tissue were macerated and single cell suspension formed was washed 3 times with PBS and layered on a Ficoll Hypaque gradient. The interphase fraction was collected, washed and kept for immunofluorescence studies.D. Cell Lines. Epctein Barr Virus EBV transformed B ceil lines from nine normal individuals and 23 BL cell lines fron BL patients were obtained from Dr. H. Ben Bassat, Department of ExperimentalSurgery, Hadassh Hospital, Jerusalem and from Dr. G. Klein,Karolinska Institute, Stockolm.Example 5 Cytofluoroorachic Analysis and Cell separation Cytofluorographic analysis of all cell population was performed by indirect immunoflorescence with fluoresceincojugated goat anti mouse IgG G M FITC Bio Yeda LAboratories on fluorescence activated cell sorter FACS Becton Dickenson instruments . In brief, one million cells were treated with 0.10 ml anti GP 70 at 1 100 dilution for polyclonal antibodies and at 1 800 dilution for monoclonal antibodies, incubated at 250C for 30 minutes, and washed twice. The cells were then reacted with 0.10 ml of a 1X20 dilution G M or G R FITC at 250C for 30 minutes, centrifuged and washed three times.These cells were then analyzed both by fluorescent microscope and by the FACS and the percent stained cell or the intensity of fluorescence per cell were examined. Background staining was obtained in the case of monoclonal antibodies by substituting a 0.10 ml aliquot of 1 800 ascjtes from a ISalb cJ mouse intraperitoneally Immunized with a non producing hybrid clone. In the case of polyclonal antibodyNormal Rabbit Serum NRS at 1 100 dilution was used for background screening Example 6Immunoflorescence Staining Anti GP 70 antiserum at a dilution of 1 100 1 200 is used to stain cells in an indirect double antibody fluorescent stain usingFITC goat anti rabbit Ig Bio Yeda, Rehovot, Israel as second antibody.Staining procedure is carried out as follows washed cell suspension X 5 x 106 0.1 ml are Incubated with 0.1 ml of test serum 1 100 dilution in the presence of 0.1 sodium aside for 30 minutes at room temperature. Unbound material is washed out with PBS and Incubation repeated with second antibody 1 20 dilution . Unbound second antibody is washed out with PBS xzide and cells are monitored within 1 2 hours in a fluorescence microscope Zeiss .Example 7Analysis of protein by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis SDS PAGE and autoradiography Samples of 0.05 0.1 mg were diluted in sample buffer containing 1 SDS, 0.1M Dtt, 50 glycerol in 0.5M Tris phosphate buffer pH,6.5 and heated for 5 minutes at 96 C. After cooling, the sample were applied onto a gradient slab gel 9 20 acrylamide, and electrophoresed according to Laemmli as outlined in Nature Lond 227, 680 684, 1970, at a constant voltage of 140V for 3 hours. The gels were stained for 30 minutes in a solution of 0.25 Coomassie blue R250 Blorad in 50 . methanol 10 acetic acid. Destaining was accomplished in a solution of 10 acetic acid. Gels with radiolabelled proteins were dried and exposed to autoradiography at 705C with MRF 31 x ray film Agfa, Geveart In Kodak regular type intensifying screen. Exposure of d days was adequate to detect 10,000 50,000 cpm. The invention is further illustrated br the following drawing9 Figure l is a schematic representation of the isolation and purification procedure of GP 70 from BL sera as described above inExample i. Although only a specific isolation and purification procedure of OP 70 from BL sera is described it should be contemplated that the present invent ion extends also to other affinity chromotography methods which yield similar purified antigen and to other natural sources of OP 70 such as CLL sura. Figure 2 shows the purification of GP 70 on RCA affinity column, as exhibited by analysis on SDS PAGE described in Example 7. Lane 1 represents material from stage III of Figure II Lane 2 represents material passed through RCA column and matorial bound to RCA and eluted with specific suger. Frecolumn material is represented by lane 3. For comparison, cell membrane extract from Saudi cells containing GP 70 prepared as outlined By Gazitt et al In cancer Res 41, 1184 1186, 1 19Gl, is represented in lane 4. As shown in figure 2 the GP 70 band found in BL sera comigrates with similar band of 70 KD found in Daubi cell membrane. rigure 3 snows analytical results tor anti GP 70 precipitated proteins from Methionine labled Daudi Cells cell membrane. Daddl cells 108 20 ml were incubated with 1, mci of 35gMethionine Amersham, 800 l mmole in RPMI Medium without methlonine GIBCO, Grand Island, N.Y. for 12 hours. Plasma membrane fraction was purified as described by Gazitt et al, ibid, and 2 x 10 cpm were reacied with 10 l of antibody 9r normal rabbit serum NRS . Immunecomplexes were precipitated with goat and rabbit ig at point of equivalence as described by Gazitt et al in Int. J. Cancer 29, 645 651, 1982. Washed precipitates were analysed on SDS PAGE and proteins were visualized by coomassi blue atain B or following autoradiography A as described by Cazitt et al, ibid. Lane a in Figure 3 represents material precipitated with NR9, lane 8 represents precipitation with anti Gp 70, and line c represents purified plasma membrane fraction. Figure 3 show that the 70 KD band is present In the immune precipitate of Daudi cell membrance with immune serum lane b but not with non immune serum lane a , section A. Figure 4 shows fluorescence stain of Daudi cells and CLL cells with anti GP 70 antibodies. One million cells were washed three time with PBS and antibodies were added 0.1 ml of 1 100 dilution . Mixture wasIncubated for 30 mInutes at 25 U and unbound antibodies were washed out with PBS containing sodium azide 0,1 final concentration . FITC goat anti rabbit Ig Bio Yeda, Rehovot,Israel 0.1 ml of 1 20 dilution was added as described above.Unbound second antibody was washed out and fluorescent cells visualized under the Zeiss fluorescent microscope. Photographs were taken with Kodak 200 A5A film. Magnification is 400 times.As shown in Figure 4 the fluorescence intensity of the majority of both Daudi cells A as well as of CLL cells B led with antiGP 70 is very high. At the same time same cells, stained with non immune serum NRS , showed no fluorescence at all. figure 5 shows the distribution of cell size and fluorescenceIntensity of anti GP 70 stained CLL cells. CLL cells were obteined from the peripheral blood of a typical CLL patient under cOnVentional treatment at HadassahHospital, Jerusalem. The Ficcoll Hypaque mononuclear fraction was isolated and used for fluorescence stain as described above.Thirty thousand cells were analysed in the fluorescence activbated cell sorter FACS, beckon Dickinson, CA at 500w. The distribution of cell size by light scatter and of the fluorescence intensity par cell as recorded are represented in A and respectively. 1 represents NRS normal rabbit serum which is a negative control 2 refers to Emig cells stained with rabbit anti human lg 0.1 ml of 1 100 dilution and 3 to cells reacted with anti GP 70 0.1 ml of 1 100 dilution . The difference between the patterns obtained with the antibodies represented in Figure 5, indicates that those antibodies recognize different antigens. Figure 6 shows a schematic representation of a classification of RL cell lines. All cell lines used were obtained from Dr. G.Klein Karolinska institute, Stochkolm . One million cells were cultured by conventional methodology, prepared for fluorescence stain and stained as described above. Data on LB l stain were taken from Klein rt al Int. J. Cancer 130, 1985 1989, 1903 ard data on BLA and CALLA etain were taken from Ehlin Henriksson et al , 19B4, in press. s shown in Figure 6 the stage of differentiation of BL cells recognized by anti Gp 70 is very narrcw and occurs in early immature BL cells.Thus anti GP 70 is advantageous to other known markers which recognize a much wider range of differentiation stages and therefore as also llined in table VII, all those other known markers have a wider recognItion of different leukemias and lymphomas. The pattern of binding of GP 70 to various cell lines is shown in tables I V. Table I shows that anti OP 70 binds effectively to B cell lines originated from Burkitt s lymphoma patients. Thus about 60 percent of BL cancer cell lines were stained, In particular early B cells containing surface membraneIg, while more differentiated lines containing cytoplasmic Ig were negative. On the other hand, none of the ten lymphoblastoid cell lines non malignant B cell listed In table II is positive to anti GP 70, indicating specifity to cancer cells. Moreover, cell lines derived from T ALL and Hodgkins disease patients were all negative as shown in table III, indicating specifity to cells. Similar results are found when malignant cells of myelocytic lineage or ephitelial cell lines derived from breast, colon, lung and hematoma cell lines are tested as shown in table IV.Furthermore, as shown in table V, all peripheral blood cells from normal donors do not bind anti GP 70. Examination of the lymphocyte fraction of 139 different leukemia patients, 40 different lymphoma patients and 263 healthy individuals by immunofluorescence staining as described above, showes as summarized in table VI that Gin 70 is present only on cell from BL and CLL patients. None of the cells from healthy individuals reacted with anti GP 70. Moreover, all of the cells of leukemia and lymphoma patients other than CLL and BL were negative to GP 70. Table VII compares between GP 70 and other B cell marker known from the prior art. Table I Fluorescencc stain of BL cell lines with anti GP70EMI30.1 tb SEP GP70 tb Call SEP line SEP No. SEP tests SEP S SEP positive tb J1 SEP joye SEP 5 SEP 61 SEP SEP 10 tb SEP P9HK 1 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb Massivs SEP 7 SEP 51 SEP SEP 12 tb SEP Daud1 SEP 7 SEP 62 SEP SEP 12 tb Raj1 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP SEP SEP 1 tb Raa1 SEP 3 SEP 33 SEP SEP SEP 1 tb SEP Ujad SEP 8 SEP 48 SEP SEP 11 tb SEP Axios SEP 3 SEP 66 SEP SEP SEP 4 tb Maios Hrik SEP 4 SEP 94 SEP SEP SEP 1 tb Maios Exr A SEP 5 SEP 77 SEP SEP 10 tb Raios AW SEP 5 SEP 75 SEP SEP SEP 9 tb Maios C 95 O SEP 5 SEP 76 SEP SEP 8 tb BL SEP 16 SEP 4 SEP 27 SEP SEP SEP 9 tb SEP BL SEP 18 SEP 2 SEP 60 SEP SEP SEP 6 tb BL SEP 29 SEP 4 SEP 62 SEP SEP SEP 6 tb SEP BL SEP 30 SEP 5 SEP 68 SEP SEP SEP 8 tb BL SEP 31 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP SEP 0.5 tb Bl SEP 36 SEP 3 SEP 0 tb BL SEP 42 SEP 5 SEP 15 SEP SEP SEP 7 tb SEP Bl SEP 44 SEP 3 SEP 0 tb LY SEP 47 SEP 3 SEP 0 tb LY SEP 66 SEP 4 SEP 9 SEP SEP SEP 3 tb LY SEP 91 SEP 3 SEP 0 tb AK Caren SEP 3 SEP 0 tb SEP Saraphine SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP SEP 3 tb MoKu SEP 3 SEP 0 tb Note Cell lines were cultured by routine methodology in RPMI 1640 20 fetal calf serum obtained from Grand IslandBiological Corporation, Crand Island, N.Y. as described byBen Bassat et al. in Cancor 40, 1481 1491, 1977. Log phase cells were prepared for staining and stained as described in Eample 6. P3HR 1 EUV Converted 8 95 EBV Converted. Table Il Fluorescence stain of lymphoblastoid cell lines with anti GP 70EMI31.1 tb SEP GP70 tb Cell SEP line SEP No. SEP testa SEP SEP positive tb MP B1 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP SEP SEP 1 tb ES B1 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP SEP SEP 1 tb AK SEP 11,12 SEP 3 SEP 9 SEP SEP SEP 8 tb SPIM 160 SEP 4 SEP 10 SEP SEP SEP 5 tb JARC SEP 167 SEP 3 SEP 0 tb JARC SEP 174 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP SEP SEP 3 tb JARC SEP 176A SEP 3 SEP 0 tb Lans tb Stennes SEP 3 SEP 0 tb NAD 20 SEP 3 SEP 7 SEP SEP SEP 7 tb Jarc SEP 99 SEP 3 SEP 0 tb Legcnd as described in Table 1. Table III Immunofluorescence stain of T Leukomic cells with anti GP70EMI32.1 tb I SEP I SEP I tb SEP SEP Binding SEP SEP SEP tb I SEP Cell SEP line SEP I SEP I SEP Origin SEP of SEP cell SEP line SEP I tb SEP GP70 SEP NRS tb I SEP HPB ALL SEP I SEP SEP 2 SEP SEP SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP T ALL SEP patient SEP SEP tb I SEP SEP I SEP SEP SEP I SEP SEP I SEP SEP J SEP tb Peer SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP T ALL SEP patient tb SEP Farage SEP I SEP SEP 2 SEP I SEP SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP T ALL SEP patient tb I SEP SEP SEP I SEP SEP SEP I SEP I SEP tb SEP I SEP I SEP I tb Molt 4 SEP SEP 2 SEP SEP 2 SEP T ALL SEP patient SEP tb Sill ALL SEP SEP 2 SEP SEP 2 SEP T ALL SEP patient tb HD MAR SEP SEP 2 SEP SEP 2 SEP Hodgkin s SEP disease tb T ALL Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia of T Cell type.Legends as in Table I. TABLE IV Binding of anti GP70 to cancer cell lines of various tissuesEMI33.1 tb I SEP I tb SEP SEP Binding SEP SEP tb I SEP Cell SEP line SEP I SEP I SEP Origin SEP of SEP cell SEP line SEP I tb GP70 SEP NRS tb M SEP 7 SEP SEP 2 SEP SEP 2 SEP CML SEP SEP patient tb M SEP 4 SEP SEP 2 SEP SEP 2 SEP CML SEP SEP patient tb I SEP RL 60 SEP 1 SEP SEP 2 SEP I SEP SEP 2 SEP I SEP Acute SEP promyelocytic SEP I tb SEP Leukemia tb SEP I SEP I tb CDM 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP Myeloid SEP Leukemia tb I SEP I SEP SEP I SEP I tb REM SEP SEP 2 SEP SEP 2 SEP N SEP SEP ALL tb KM 3 SEP SEP 2 SEP SEP 2 SEP N SEP SEP ALL tb HU SEP SEP 2 SEP SEP 2 SEP Epitheial SEP cell SEP line SEP I tb 1063 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP Ovarian SEP carcinoma tb I SEP MDA SEP SEP C SEP SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP Breast SEP cancer tb Fogh SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP Hepatoma tb I SEP I SEP 1 SEP I tb Ewing SEP SEP 2 SEP SEP 2 SEP Colon SEP carcinoma tb CML Chronic Myelogenous LeukemiaLegend as in Table 1. Table V Binding of anti GP 70 antibodies to normal peripheral blood cellsEMI34.1 tb I SEP I SEP I tb I SEP I SEP Binding SEP SEP tb SEP Blood SEP Cell SEP Type SEP SEP I SEP I SEP tb I SEP I SEP I tb Anti SEP GP40 SEP NRS tb I SEP SEP I SEP SEP I SEP SEP I tb Peripheral SEP Blood SEP Lympohoytes SEP 2 SEP 2 tb I SEP SEP 1 SEP SEP I SEP SEP I tb B SEP SEP Lymphocytes SEP 2 SEP 2 tb T SEP SEP Lymphocytes SEP 2 SEP 2 tb Granulocytes SEP 2 SEP 2 tb I SEP I SEP I tb Erythnocytes SEP SEP 2 SEP SEP 2 tb Platelets SEP SEP 2 SEP SEP 2 tb Tonsils SEP cells SEP 2 SEP 2 tb I SEP Bone SEP marrow SEP cells SEP 1 SEP 10 20 SEP 1 SEP 10 201 SEP tb I SEP I SEP SEP I SEP SEP I tb Calls were isolated as described in Example 8 and stained as described in Example 6 Table VI Clinical evaluation of anti GP 70 antibody type of No. patients No. positive S positive Remarks cancer ALL 48 0 0 All ALL were CALLA CLL 63 55 87 5 out of the 8 negative patients were in the acute stage. HCL 4 0 0 AML 12 12 0 0 CML 10 0 0 MM 2 0 0 BL 8 6 75 Biopsies were taken from tumors. HL 6 0 0 Diopsies were taken from bone marrow and NHL 16 0 0 lymph nodes Controls 260 0 0 Blood bank donors Normals Control 3 0 0 Patients were sampled IM at various stages of Li ALL Acute lymphoblastic leukemia CLL Chronic lymphocytic leukemia HCL Hairy cell leukemia AML Acute myelogenous leukemia C At Chronic myelogenous leukemia MM Multiple myeloma BL Burkitt s lymphoma HL Hodjkin s lymphoma NHL non Hodjkin s lymphoma IM Infectious mononucleosis. TABLE VII Comparison botween GP70 and other B call markers B cell Molecular Specificity Reactivity with Remarks marker Weight M.W BL cell lines B1 30 KD ALL, CLL and most BL cell stains CML at all lymphomas lines are stained blast crisis. B2 140 KD ALL, CLL and stains more stains also all lymphomas differentiated lymphoblastoid BL cell lines cell lines and mature B cells. flu 120 KD pre B ALL pan B stains and normal all stages of B cells B cell differentiation a BLA A glycolipid some CLL and stains immature of small M.W. BL most BL cell lines. lymphomas.a CALLA 100KD C ALL most BL cell lines stains also except for mature cells from cig containing BL other tissues cells. i.e epithelial a LB l stains mature stains mature BL a normal B ceil normal B cells cell lines. marker. and most ALL and CLL BA I stains mature stains mature BL a normal B cell normal B cells cell lines. marker. and most ALL and CLL a GP70 7 70KD stains all CL stains only early does not react and BL. and immature BL with lymphoma cell lines. cel s except for bL. a For comparison sce also Figure 5.