# STABLE STANNOUS CHLORIDE COMPOSITION FOR LABELING WITH RADIOACTIVE TECHNETIUM

## Claims
Reagens zur Verwendung bei der Reduktion von ⁹⁹Tc beim radioaktiven Abtasten, dadurch gekennzeichnet, daß es aus einem lyophilisierten Pulver von SnCl₂ besteht, das durch Lyophilisierung einer Lösung von SnCl₂ mit einer Konzentration von 0,1 mol l bis 2,0 mol l und einem Volumen von nicht mehr als 500 µl in einer Ampulle erhalten wurde.

## Description
The present invention relates to a stable stannous chloride composition for labeling with radioactive technetium. More particularly, it relates to a stable non radioactive labeling composition useful for preparation of a radioactive technetium labeled tin colloid for liver scintigraphy or for preparation of radioactive technetium labeled red blood cells in the human body. Since technetium 99m Among various For preparation of the Some attempts have been made in order to solve the problems as above mentioned. One of them is to use stannous fluoride and sodium fluoride in place of stannous chloride in the preparation of a non radioactive labeling composition comprising stannous ion Japanese Patent Publication examined No. 15089 82 . In general, however, a fluoride species is highly toxic in comparison with the corresponding chloride so that said attempt is not an ideal solution. As a result of the extensive study, it has now been found that a stable non radioactive labeling composition for preparation of a Radioactive medicines which can be retained in the blood circulation system without being taken by any organ or tissue when administered into a blood vessel are useful for the observation of a heart blood pool, a brain blood vessel, a peripheral blood vessel, etc. and the collection of diagnostic informations. Those medicines as heretofore reported include An attempt has been made on labeling of red blood cells with The non radioactive labeling composition of the invention can be prepared from a solution of stannous chloride, for which anhydrous stannous chloride SnCl₂ or stannous chloride hydrate usually SnCl₂.2H₂O . The solvent to be used for preparation of the stannous chloride solution may be any which can afford a designed concentration of stannous chloride and does not prevent the resulting stannous chloride solution from lyophilization. The most preferred one is water. Insofar as lyophilization is not prevented, any solvent mixture such as water methanol, water ethanol or water dimethylsulfoxide may be employed. Preparation of the stannous chloride solution is to be effected in the atmosphere of an inert gas such as nitrogen or argon in order to avoid hydrolysis or oxidation. Likewise, the solvent to be used for preparation of the stannous chloride solution is to be kept free from oxygen by removal of dissolved oxygen with said inert gas. Every constant quantity of the stannous chloride solution as thus prepared is charged in a container such as a vial or an ampoule, preferably under the atmosphere of an inert gas as above exemplified. Lyophilization may be effected by a per se conventional procedure, i.e. cooling the stannous chloride solution first to freeze and removing the solvent from the frozen stannous chloride solution under reduced pressure by sublimation. In order to avoid the separating out of stannous chloride or the solvent of stannous chloride in the lyophilization step or the dehomogenisation of the stannous chloride concentration in the lyophilized product, it is preferred to cool the stannous chloride solution as quickly as possible to accomplish the freezing. After completion of the lyophilization, the lyophilized product is stored in a sealed state in vacuo or in an inert gas atmosphere to avoid oxidation. The concentration of the stannous chloride solution prior to the lyophilization is to be not less than 0.05 mol liter, to be not more than the solubility of stannous chloride in the used solvent at room temperature and not to cause the separating out of stannous chloride or its solvent by completion of freezing in the freezing step of the lyophilization. The preferred concentration is from 0.5 to 2.0 mol liter. Even when the solubility of stannous chloride in the used solvent is lower than the stannous chloride concentration on its preparation as the result of the lowering of the temperature in the freezing step, the invention process is workable if the separating out of stannous chloride or its solvent does not take place before completion of the freezing by maintaining the stannous chloride solution at a supersaturated state. The quantity of the stannous chloride solution to be charged into each of the containers such as vials or ampoules is to be determined on how many persons are to be tested by the use of each container comprising the non radioactive labeling composition. Taking the risk of air oxidation and microbial infection into consideration, each container is preferred to contain a sufficient amount of the non radioactive labeling composition to test from one to five persons. Inclusion of such a large amount as sufficient to test 10 persons or more in each container as presently and commonly adopted is to be avoided. Thus, each container is favored to contain the non radioactive labeling composition for preparation of a In case of the non radioactive labeling composition being to be used for labeling red blood cells with For labeling of red blood cells with Upon use of the non radioactive labeling composition of the invention for the preparation of the On the use of the non radioactive labeling composition of the invention for labeling red blood cells in a human body, sterilized, pyrogen free, dissolved oxygen free water is added to a container comprising the non radioactive labeling composition in an amount of 1 milliliter per 5 micromol of stannous chloride present in the container to dissolve the same. The quantity of the resultant solution is adjusted so as to make 20 µg of stannous ion corresponding to 32 µg of stannous chloride per kg of the bodyweight of a person to be tested, and then the resulting solution is administered to the person intravenously. After 30 minutes, a physiological saline solution containing In this invention, the most characteristic feature resides in the use of a stannous chloride solution of relatively high concentration. Most of the non radioactive labeling compositions for labeling with According to this invention, a stannous chloride solution of relatively high concentration is subjected to lyophilization by a procedure as hereinabove explained so that a non radioactive labeling composition comprising stannous chloride can be produced without any material hydrolysis or oxidation of stannous ion. The concentration of the stannous chloride solution to be subjected to lyophilization may be not less than 0.1 mol liter in general but should not exceed to the saturated concentration of stannous chloride under the operation condition. The amount of such stannous chloride solution to be charged into each container is normally not more than 500 µl. Practical and presently preferred embodiments of the invention are illustratively shown in the following Examples. Manufacture of a non radioactive labeling reagent for preparation of Manufacture of a Property of Tc FDSn COL For comparison, a The results are shown in Table 1. From the above results, it is understood that the Tc FDSn COL has an excellent distributing ability as a radioactive diagnostic agent for liver scintigraphy. Namely, Tc FDSn COL shows such a high level of accumulation in liver as not less than 95 , while Tc FDSn REF shows a lower accumulation in liver with a higher accumulation in other organs. Stability of FDSn COL From the above results, it is understood that FDSn COL is stable at a temperature of 3 to 6 C for a period of not less than 200 days. Stability of Tc FDSn COL From the above results, it is understood that Tc FDSn COL is stable over a period of not less than 6 hours. Manufacture of a non radioactive labeling composition for labeling of red blood cells hereinafter referred to as FDSn RBC Labeling of red blood cells with The remaining blood 3 to 5 ml was centrifuged 800 g, 20 min to be separated into plasma and blood cells. After centrifugation, the hematoerit value volume percent of blood cells in blood, Hct was obtained. A part of the separated plasma 1.0 ml was placed into a vial for radioactive determination with a pipet. The plasma 1.0 ml and the above mentioned blood 1.0 ml were counted in the same geometrical position the same count efficiency position in the gamma counter, and from the determined values, the background values were subtracted to obtain net count values per 1 minute, C plasma and C blood . From these values, the percentages of radioactivity distribution in the red blood cells and in the plasm RBC and Plasma , respectively were calculated according to the following equation wherein RBC is the abbreviation of red blood cells. Then, the percentage of radioactivity present in 1 ml of red blood cells to the whole dose of radioactivity ID ml RBC norm was calculated according to the following equation Finally, the percentage of radioactivity present in the whole red blood cells to the whole dose of radioactivity ID in whole RBC was calculated according to the following equation, on the assumption that the whole amount of blood ml was 6.5 of the bodyweight g Using the experimental procedure described above, the following evaluations were performed, of which the results are shown in Table 4. With the amount of Sn II of 20 µg kg of the body weight, as mentioned in Example 8 below, the efficiency of labeling of red blood cells reached the maximum in each of the labeling compositions. As understood from Table 4, all of the labeling compositions of the invention showed a labeling efficiency of 95 or more in the ID in whole RBC even after 1 or 2 hours after the administration. Relationship between the dose of FDSn RBC and the efficiency of intracorporeal labeling of red blood cells As apparent from this Table, administration of 10 to 20 µg kg of Sn II in the form of FDSn RBC attains a high yield of red blood cell labeling. It was shown by these experiments that intracorporeal labeling of red blood cells with Stability of FDSn RBC for labeling As apparent from this Table, the labeling efficiency of FDSn RBC of red blood cell is stable even after 200 days after the preparation. Toxicity of the non radioactive labeling composition according to the invention In this Example, the acute toxicity with intravenous administration of the non radioactive labeling composition to rats or mice was evaluated. Namely, sterilized, pyrogen free and oxgyen free water 1.0 ml was added to a vial containing FDSn RBC to make a stannous chloride solution 20 µmol ml, 3.792 µg ml . The resultant solution was intravenously administered to male and female ICR strain mice and S.D. strain rats. After 14 days, the accumulative death percentage was determined, and the lethal dose 50 LD₅₀ was calculatd by the Litchfield Wilcoxon s method. As the result, the LD₅₀ value of stannous chloride was 28 3 mg kg and 33 3 mg kg respectively in female mice and male mice, and 17 2 mg kg and 18 3 mg kg respectively in female rats and male rats. The dose of the non radioactive labeling composition to human beings may be 9.48 µg kg with the assumption that a total amount of one vial of FDSn COL is administered to a person of 60 kilograms in bodyweight as stannous chloride at the maximum in case of using for preparation of From the above results, it may be said that the non radioactive labeling composition of the invention can be administered intravenously into human beings with sufficient safety. The safety of the non radioactive labeling composition according to the invention may be also supported by the fact that stannous chloride is widely and clinically administered to human beings with or without chelating agents.