# Multiplier circuitry using pass transistors and method of constructing same.

## Abstract
PASS transistors are used to reduce the layout complex ity of multiplication circuitry by using PASS transistors connected to pass a first and second input function to an output node in response to a selected output function on the output node. The PASS transistor comprises a transistor capable of passing an input function in response to a CONTROL signal applied to the transistor, thereby to gener ate an output function related to the input function.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of constructing a multiplier circuit for multiplying two n bit numbers, said circuit using as its basic element the PASS transistor, said PASS transistor having an input lead, an output lead and a control lead controlled by a control function, the method being characterised by the steps of establishing a truth table of the desired multiplic ation values for the sum and carry functions of said multiplication, said truth table depicting the state of the output variables for each state of the input variables to said multiplier circuit entering into said truth table for each input state the input variables which, when passed to the output lead of a PASS transistor, yield the desired output variable or variables, said input variables comprising the PASS function for that state entering the PASS function for each state of said input variables into a modified Karnaugh map wherein each state of the modified Karnaugh map contains the particular input variables which yield the desired output variable, said particular input variables being called the PASS function for that state of input variables identifying the identical PASS variables in each PASS function for each state of input variables such that every state has at least one PASS variable identified identifying a control function among the input variables which is independent of the identical PASS variables previously identified, for controlling said control lead of said PASS transistor and constructing a multiplier circuit using said PASS transistors in accordance with said identified PASS variables and said control function. 2. A method in accordance with claim 1, further characterised by the steps of entering the carry function of said multiplication into a first modified Karnaugh map and entering the sum function of said multiplication into a second Karnaugh map. 3. A method in accordance with claim 2, characterised in that said first and said second modified Karnaugh maps each have two portions. 4. A method in accordance with claim 3, characterised in that the first Karnaugh map portion corresponds to a carry in of zero and the second Karnaugh map corresponds to a carry in of one. 5. A multiplication circuit for multiplying two n bit words, said circuit including as its basic elementPASS transistors, wherein each PASS transistor comprises an input lead, an output lead and a control lead for controlling the passing of signals from said input lead to said output lead, said multiplication circuit being characterised by comprising a plurality of n PASS transistor cells, each said cell having a carry out network and a sum out network, means for supplying the n bits of the first of said words as inputs to n of said cells, and means for supplying the n bits of the second of said words as inputs to n of said cells, said n2 cells being interconnected to each other to produce from each said cell a carry out signal from said carry out network and a sum out signal from said sum out network corresponding to the sum out and carry out for the multiplication of the bits of said two words supplied to said cell. 6. A circuit in accordance with claim 5, further characterised in that said n bits of said first word areAi, the bits of said second word are Bi, and said plurality of PASS transistor cells functions in accordance with the following truth table Zi Ci Si Co So 0 0 0 O 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 . 0 1 0 1 1 . 1 0 1 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 1 0 1 1 0 1 0 1 1 1 . 1 1 where Zi AiBi, Ci is the carry in value, Si is the sum in value, Co is the carry out value and So is the sum out value. 7. A circuit in accordance with claim 5, further characterised in that said n bits of said first word areAi, the bits of said second word are Bi, and said plurality of PASS transistor cells functions in accordance with the following truth table Ci Si Zi Co So 0 0 0 0 O 0 0 1 O 0 1 0 0 1 0 1 1 1 0 1 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 1 0 1 1 0 1 0 1 1 1 1 1 where Zi AiBi, Ci is the carry in value, Si is the sum in value, Co is the carry out value and So is the sum out value.

## Description
MULTIPLIER CIRCUITRY USING PASS TRANSISTORS AND METHOD OF CONSTRUCTING SAMEField of the Invention This invention relates to multiplying circuits and in particular to multiplier circuits formed using PASS transistors so as substantially to reduce the number of active devices required. The invention also relates to methods of constructing such multiplier circuits. Our European patent application No. 83302602.4 0094234 discloses a number of PASS transistor logic circuits and methods for designing them. Such logic circuits and methods, as appropriate, may be used in the circuitry and methods described hereinafter.Description of the Prior Art Boolean logic expressions may be realised through classical logic design methods with networks of combinational logic. Logic networks using MOS technology are often formed with NAND, NOR and inversion gates, since these structures are easily implemented. The PASS transistor is another common MOS structure. By way of background relating to PASS transistors,Figure la shows a PASS transistor with its logical function. When the gate or control electrode 13 to PASS transistor 10 is asserted and by asserted is meant driven to a voltage so as to form a conductive path between input lead 11 and output lead 12 , transistor 10 passes the logic state at input lead 11 to output lead 12. The input and output leads of an MOS transistor may be arbitrarily chosen because an MOS transistor is bidirectional. For convenience, the input lead will be defined as the terminal driven by the source of a logic state. The output lead 12 of PASS transistor 10 typically applies the passed logic state to the input lead of another series connected logic structure.Output leads of a number of PASS transistors may be joined to drive the same input of a logic structure, provided that allPASS transistors whose controls are asserted are passing the same logic state. The use of PASS transistors as bidirectional transmission gates is described in an article entitled VSLI A New Frontier for SystemsDesigners published in the January 1982 ComputerJournal of the IEEE by Douglas G. Faibain. The use of the PASS transistor as a circuit element yields several advantages over prior art circuits such as MOS integrated circuits. First, the PASS transistor dissipates no significant steady state of power.Second, arrays of PASS transistors form structures of regular topology, often consuming less area for a given logical function than consumed by other types of circuits. The major disadvantages of the PASS transistor is that the voltage level of the high signal on its output lead is degraded due to the characteristics of the field effect transistor used as the PASS transistor, but this can be overcome by careful circuit design. After passing a high level through one PASS transistor, no significant further degradation of voltage level occurs when the signal is passed through N additional PASS transistors, assuming no PASS transistor control input is driven by the output of another PASS transistor.Summary of the Invention In accordance with the invention there is provided a method of constructing a multiplier circuit for multiplying two n bit numbers, said circuit using as its basic element the PASS transistor, said PASS transistor having an input lead, an output lead and a control lead controlled by a control function, the method being characterised by the steps of establishing a truth table of the desired multiplica tion values for the sum and carry functions of said multiplication, said truth table depicting the state of the output variables for each state of the input variables to said multiplier circuit entering into said truth table for each input state the input variables which, when passed to the output lead of a PASS transistor, yield the desired output variable or variables, said input variables comprising the PASS function for that state entering the PASS function for each state of said input variables into a modified Karnaugh map wherein each state of the modified Karnaugh map contains the particular input variables which yield the desired output variable, said particular input variables being called the PASS function for that state of input variables identifying the identical PASS variables in each PASS function for each state of input variables such that every state has at least one PASS variable identified identifying a control function among the input variables which is independent of the identical PASS variables previously identified, for controlling said control lead of said PASS transistor and constructing a multiplier circuit using said PASS transistors in accordance with said identified PASS variables and said control function. Also in accordance with the invention there is provided a multiplication circuit for multiplying two n bit words, said circuit including as its basic elementPASS transistors, wherein each PASS transistor comprises an input lead, an output lead and a control lead for controlling the passing of signals from said input lead to said output lead, said multiplication circuit being characterised by comprising a plurality of n PASS transistor cells, each said cell having a carry out network and a sum out network, means for supplying the n bits of the first of said words as inputs to n of said cells, and means for supplying the n bits of the second of said words as inputs to n of said cells, said n2 cells being interconnected to each other to produce from each said cell a carry out signal from said carry out network and a sum out signal from said sum out network corresponding to the sum out and carry out for the multiplication of the bits of said two words supplied to said cell. Iterative arrays of PASS transistor cells are used to construct a 16 x 16 multiplier. The core consists of 256 cells each containing 22 PASS transistors, 5 inverters and 1 2 input NAND gate. The cell in 3 micron CMOS occupies only a small area making a 16 x 16 core extremely dense. PASS transistor cells can also be arrayed to convert the input from 2 s complement to signed magnitude or pass the signed magnitude input word. The core output can either be converted to 2 s complement or passed as unsigned magnitude through a set of PASS transistor cells.Brief Description of the Drawings Figures la and lb illustrate a PASS transistor and the truth table for that transistor Figure 2 shows the multiplication of two four bit words Figure 3 shows the arrangement of 16 identical cells for performing the multiplication shown in Fig.2 Figures 4a,4b and 4c show truth tables associated with the multiplication performed in the circuitry ofFigure 3 Figures 5a and 5b represent the Karnaugh maps and transistor network respectively, for implementing the carry function of the multiplier Figures 6a and 6b represent the Karnaugh maps and transistor network respectively, for implementing the sum function of the multiplier and, Figure 7 shows the complete cell configuration for the multiplier.Description of the Preferred Embodiment Parallel multiplication consists of the addition of partial products. Figure 2 shows the multiplication of two four bit words, A3 A2 Al AO and B3 B2 B1 BO. Line one if the product of A and BO, line two is the product of A and B1, line three is the product of A and B2, while line four is the product of A and B3. These partial products are then added together to form the total product P. PO is the product of AO BO P1 is the sum of the products Al BO and AO B1 P2 is the sum of A2BO, Al B1, AO B2 and the carry produced in the formation of P1. P3 is formed as the sum of A3 BO, A2 B1, Al B2,AO B3 and three possible carries from the formation ofP2. P4 is the sum of A3 B1, A2 B2, Al B3 and four possible carries from the formation of P3. P5 is the sum of A3 B2, A2 B3 and three possible carries from the construction of P4. P6 is the sum of A3 B3 and two possible carries from PS. P7 is the possible carry fromP6. This process may be expanded to obtain a 2n bit output word from the multiplication of two n bit words. Figure 3 shows the arrangement of an array of 16 identical cells which could produce the product resulting from the multiplication of two four bit words. Each cell produces a sum and carry out based on the addition of Ai, Bi, Ci 1, j and Si 1. At the edges Si, j 1 is equal to Ci 1, j l. The truth table in Figure 4a summarises the carry out and sum out information of a typical cell. Noting that the truth table is symmetrical about the function Ai and Bi, the four input truth table can be reduced into a 3 input table around the functionZi AiBi. Figure 4b shows the new truth table, which is then rearranged as shown in Figure 4c and decomposed about the variable Ci This arrangement reduces the capacitances in the carry and sum propagation paths. The carry logic is reduced by the two variableKarnaugh maps of Figure 5a to create the PASS transistor network of Figure 5b. This is described in more detail in the aforesaid European patent application No.83302602.4 0094234 . The sum logic is reduced by theKarnaugh map of Figure 6a to the PASS network of Figure 6b. Each cell of Figure 3 contains these two PASS networks. Four inverting buffers are used to reduce the load seen by the PASS networks and provide the inverse of the carry and sum signals and a 2 input NAND produced AB with an inverter producing AB. The complete cell configuration is shown in Figure 7. A multiplier could also be constructed as configured in Figure 3, but would have to propagate the carry sum through 2n 1 cells. By using the technique of carry look ahead, the propagation time can be reduced to the delay through n 1 cells.