# Perfume composition and perfumed products which contain one or more o alkoxyphenols as perfume component.

## Abstract
Parfume compositions and perfumed products characterized by a content of one or more fragrances which have the characteristic odour of vanilla and correspond to the formula

## Claims
1. Perfume composition and perfumed product, charac terised by a content of one or more compounds with the formula wherein one of the symbols R₁ or R₂ represents a hydro gen atom and the other an ethyl or propyl group and R₃ represents a methyl or ethyl group.

## Description
The invention relates to perfume compositions which contain one or more o alkoxyphenols as perfume component and to products perfumed with one or more of these compounds or with the said compositions. The odour character of vanilla is highly valued in perfumery and is therefore important from an economic point of view. To impart this odour character to a perfume composition or to a product to be perfumed, use is normally made of vanillin, ethylvanillin or a combina tion of the two. These compounds are, however, not stable in an alkaline medium such as soap. If perfumes contain ing vanillin or ethylvanillin are used in toilet soap, after a short time a deviation in odour and a strong brown discoloration therefore occur and after some time the vanilla character has completely disappeared. There is therefore a requirement for fragrances which both have an odour of vanilla and are chemically stable. Surprisingly, it has now been found that alkyl substituted o alkoxyphenols with the formula Various alkyl substituted alkoxyphenols are known as a fragrance and or flavouring. Thus, in Perfume and Flavor Chemicals S. Arctander names 4 methylguaiacol No. 705 , 4 propylguaiacol No. 944 , ortho ethoxyphenol No. 1136 , 4 ethylguaiacol No. 1251 and 5 propyl 2 ethoxyphenol No. 2704 . These compounds are in general characterised by spicy clove eugenol , phenolic and leathery or smokey odour notes, in some cases also by a vanilla like note. A number of these compounds are therefore used in flavour compositions to supplement the taste of vanillin in synthetic vanilla flavours. None of them can, however, impart to a perfume composition a perfect odour of vanilla which is free of all types of annoying subsidiary notes. They are therefore unsuitable as substitutes for vanillin. The Dutch Patent Application No. 72.09426 states that 2 propoxyphenol is suitable for imparting a smoke taste to foodstuffs. The Dutch Patent Application No. 72.13842 states that substituted phenols are used in the perfume and flavour industry and that there is therefore a need for vinylguaiacol without specifying in more detail for what purpose this compound and other compounds named in the application are used. Finally, in the Dutch Patent Application No. 75.04532 a number of 2 alkoxy 4 butenyl and methylpro penylphenols are described with flowery carnation like fragrances with leathery, oak moss and smoky and in some cases also vanilla like notes. This state of the prior art, however, gives no cause for any supposition that precisely the compounds according to the present application would be particu larly suitable for imparting the fragrance characteristic of natural vanilla to perfume compositions. The compounds according to the invention may be prepared according to methods described in the literature for these and similar compounds. Thus, for example, the synthesis of 2 ethoxy 4 methylphenol by catalytic reduc tion of ethylvanillin is described by C.H. Shunk et al. in J. Am. Chem. Soc. A similar method of synthesis is described by G.R. Clemo et al. in J. Chem. Soc. 1952, page 3844 et seq.. Starting from isoethylvanillin S. Arctander No. 1364 , 2 ethoxy 5 methylphenol can be obtained in the same manner. The above named compounds, as well as the corresponding 2 propoxy compounds, can also be prepared by alkylation of 4 methylcatechol with the aid of an ethyl or propyl halide or another conventional alkylating agent. By this method a mixture of 2 ethoxy 4 methyl and 2 ethoxy 5 methylphenol or 2 propoxy 4 methyl and 2 propoxy 5 methylphenol is obtained. By means of a Wittig reaction and starting from 3,4 dihydroxybenzaldehyde, 3,4 dihydroxystyrene can be pre pared which can subsequently be converted into 4 ethyl catechol by catalytic reduction. This compound can be alkylated as mentioned above to form a mixture of 2 ethoxy 4 ethyl and 2 ethoxy 5 ethylphenol or 2 propoxy 4 ethyl and 2 propoxy 5 ethylphenol. In addition 2 ethoxy 4 ethyl and 2 ethoxy 5 ethylphenol can be prepared by sub jecting ethylvanillin or isoethylvanillin to a Wittig reaction and to a catalytic reduction as described above for 3,4 dihydroxybenzaldehyde. Variations in the above named synthesis routes, as well as various other routes not named, are obvious to the expert in the field of organic chemistry synthesis methods. The mixtures of isomers obtained by some of the above named synthesis methods can be separated in a con ventional manner, for example by means of chromatographic techniques, into the two components. The compounds according to the invention are powerful fragrances with a characteristic odour of vanilla. They are also distinguished by their high chemical stabi lity, especially in alkali medium such as soap, and are therefore very suitable for use in perfumes and products in which the conventional vanilla fragrances are not usable or only usable to a very limited extent. Especi ally the compounds in which both R₃ and R₁ or R₂ repre sent an ethyl group are characterised by their pleasant odour of vanilla which even exceeds the odour of vanillin in naturalness. Although the odours of the two isomers in the mix tures obtained by some synthesis methods are not entirely identical, separation of the isomers is in many cases not necessary or even undesirable because precisely the mixtures are often very suitable for imparting a perfect vanilla note to a perfume composition. In this connection the term perfume composition means a mixture of fragrances and optionally auxiliary sub stances, if desired, dissolved in a suitable solvent or mixed with a powdery substrate which is used to impart the desired odour to the skin and or all types of pro ducts. Examples of such products are soaps, detergents, air fresheners, room sprays, pomanders, candles, cosmetics such as creams, ointments, toilet waters, pre and after shave lotions, talcum powders, hair care agents, body deodorants and antiperspirants. Fragrances and mixtures of fragrances which can be used in combination with the compounds according to the invention for the production of perfume compositions are for example natural products such as essential oils, absolutes, resinoids, resins, concretes etc., but also synthetic fragrances such as hydrocarbons, alcohols, aldehydes, ketones, ethers, acids, esters, acetals, ketals, nitriles etc., including saturated and unsaturated com pounds, aliphatic, carbocyclic and heterocyclic compounds. Examples of fragrances which can be used in combination with the compounds according to the invention are gera niol, geranyl acetate, linalool, linalyl acetate, tetra hydrolinalool, citronellol, citronnellyl acetate, dihydro myrcenol, dihydromyrcenyl acetate, tetrahydromyrcenol, terpineol, terpinyl acetate, nopol, nopyl acetate, 2 phenylethanol, 2 phenylethyl acetate, benzyl alcohol, benzyl acetate, benzyl salicylate, styrallyl acetate, benzyl benzoate, amyl salicylate, dimethylbenzylcarbinol, trichloromethylphenylcarbinyl acetate, p tert butylcyclo hexyl acetate, isononyl acetate, vetiveryl acetate, veti verol, α hexylcinnamaldehyde, 2 methyl 3 p tert butyl phenyl propanal, 2 methyl 3 p isopropylphenyl propanal, 3 p tert butylphenyl propanal, tricylcodecenyl acetate, tricyclodecenyl propionate, 4 4 hydroxy 4 methylpentyl 3 cyclohexanecarbaldehyde, 4 4 methyl 3 pentenyl 3 cyclohexenecarbaldehyde, 4 acetoxy 3 pentyltetrahydro pyran, 3 carboxymethyl 2 pentylcyclopentane, 2 n heptylcyclopentanone, 3 methyl 2 pentyl 2 cyclopenten one, n decanal, n dodecanal, 9 decenol 1, phenoxyethyl isobutyrate, phenylacetaldehyde, dimethylacetal, phenyl acetaldehyde diethylacetal, geranylnitrile, citronellyl nitrile, cedryl acetate, 3 isocamphylcyclohexanol, cedryl methyl ether, isolongifolanone, aubepine nitrile, aubepine, heliotropine, coumarin, eugenol, vanillin, diphenyl oxide, hydroxycitronellal, ionones, methylionones, isomethylion ones, irones, cis 3 hexenol and esters thereof, indan musks tetralin musks, isochroman musks, macrocyclic ketones, macrolactone musks, ethylene brassylate, and aromatic nitromusks. Auxiliary substances and solvents which can be used in perfume compositions which contain compounds according to the invention are, for example ethanol, iso propanol, diethyleneglycol monoethyl ether, diethyl phthalate, etc. The quantities in which the compounds according to the invention can be used in perfume oompositions or products to be perfumed can vary within wide limits and depend inter alia on the nature of the product in which the fragrance is used, on the nature and quantity of the other components in the perfume composition and on the odiferous effect aimed at. It is therefore only possible to specify very rough limits which, however, provide the expert with sufficent information to be able to use the compounds according to the invention independently. In most cases a quantity of only 10 ppm in a perfume composition will already be sufficient to achieve a clearly per ceptable odiferous effect. On the other hand, to achieve special odiferous effects, it is possible to use quanti ties of 25 by weight or even more in a composition. In products perfumed by means of perfume compositions these concentrations are porportionally lower, depending on the quantity of composition used in the product. The following examples serve only to illustrate the preparation and use of the compounds according to the invention. The invention is, however, not limited thereto. 1.05 mole equivalents of diethylsulphate were slowly added dropwise to a solution of 1.0 mole of 4 methylcatechol in 420 g of 10 sodium hydroxide solution 1.05 mole equivalents of NaOH at 50 C The reaction mixture was then stirred for a further 2 hours at 50 60 C. After cooling the reaction mixture was acidified and then extracted with ether. The ether solution was concentrated by evaporation and the residue distilled under reduced pressure, an approximately 1 1 mixture of 2 ethoxy 4 methyl and 5 methylphenol being obtained with a yield of 80 . Boiling point 76 77 C 40 Pa n 1.5237. The mixture had a pleasant and very natural odour of vanilla. A suspension of methyltriphenylphosphonium brom ide 1.15 mole and potassium tert butylate 1.33 moles in 1 litre toluene was stirred for 1 hour at room tempera ture. 1.0 mole of ethylvanillin was added to the ylide thus formed. The reaction mixture was stirred for a fur ther hour and then washed with dilute hydrochloric acid. The solution was concentrated by evaporation and the residue distilled under reduced pressure. In this way 2 ethoxy 4 vinylphenol was obtained with a yield of 55 . Boiling point 75 C 15 Pa. This was dissolved in 400 ml of ethanol, 1 g of 5 Pd C hydrogenating catalyst was added and the reaction mixture was hydrogenated at 400 kPa until the theoreti cal quantity of H₂ had been absorbed. After the cata lyst had been filtered off, the reaction mixture was con centrated by evporation. The residue was distilled under reduced pressure, 2 ethoxy 4 ethylphenol being obtained with a yield of 95 . Boiling point 60 C 20 Pa. The compound had a pleasant, somewhat sweetly spicy odour of vanilla. A soap perfume for white soap was prepared accor ding to the following recipe A cream perfume was prepared according to the following recipe Two types of vanilla perfumed toilet soap were prepared by mixing 1 kg of white soap grains twice in a pelleting machine with 10 g of 2 ethoxy 4 methylphenol and 10 g of vanillin respectively. The white soap flakes obtained in this manner were pressed into pieces of toilet soap in the conventional manner. The two types of fresh toilet soap had a pleasant odour of vanilla, it being striking that the soap perfumed with 2 ethoxy 4 methylphenol had a much stronger odour than the soap perfumed with vanillin. Both types of soap were kept unpacked at room temperature and exposed to daylight. Even after a few days the soap perfumed with vanillin exhibited a marked brown discoloration and a deviation in odour was perceptible. After a few weeks this soap was discoloured dark brown not only on the surface, but right through. The odour of vanilla had completely disappeared and had been replaced by a faint, somewhat phenolic odour. On the other hand, the soap perfumed with 2 ethoxy 4 methylphenol was still hardly discoloured even after half a year somewhat cream coloured on the surface and still white inside , while the strength of the odour had somewhat diminished but was not changed in character.