# PESTICIDES

## Claims
Verbindung der Formel IRACR₃ CR₄CHDRB I in welcher Formel

## Description
This invention relates to pesticides and in particular to pesticidal compounds, the production of such compounds, intermediates for use in their production, compositions containing such compounds and the use of such compounds and compositions for pest control. The invention concerns the subject matters as defined in the claims. Compounds have now been discovered formulations of which, whilst effective against a range of insect and other pests, are of particular interest for the control of infestation in rice crops. Accordingly the present invention comprises a compound of formula I Although, desirably, methods for producing compounds I are such that the product is free from the structural isomer of formula II Although compound I is preferably substantially free from compound II, being contaminated by less than 10 and usually less than 1 thereof on a molar basis, higher levels of contamination may be tolerated, though it is unusual for more than 50 of compound II to be present. Ar, is typically substituted phenyl and substitution is usually at the 3 meta and or 4 para position by fluorine, bromine, chlorine, a C₁ C₆ alkyl group e.g. methyl or The substituents R₁ and R₂ , together with the carbon bearing them, typically represent a substituted or unsubstituted cyclopropyl group which, when substituted, preferably carries halogen and especially fluorine as in 2,2 difluorocyclopropyl. When the compound of formula I is chiral as in the immediately foregoing case it can of course exist in different stereoisomeric forms. Both mixtures of stereoisomers and single stereoisomers are included within the scope of the present invention. One or each of R₃ and R₄ typically represents hydrogen. When, however, one or both represent halogen, and in particular bromine chlorine or fluorine, fluorine is usually preferred. R Typically R The present invention includes within its scope a process for the production of a pesticide compound in which a compound comprising a moiety R Compounds of Formula I may be produced by a preferred process within the scope of the present invention, in which the product of a sterically hindered organoborane with a compound of formula R The procedure is shown in the following simplified scheme Intermediates of formula ArCR₁R₂C CH and complexes thereof with sterically hindered mono or dialkyl boranes or catechol borane and products of the compound R In an alternative process within the scope of the present invention for producing a compound of formula I, a nucleophilic species of formula R B is catalytically reacted with i a compound of formula R ii a compound of formula R in which formulae R OR and Q represent good leaving groups. Typically, the reaction is carried out in the presence of a transition metal catalyst which is preferably a copper salt or a complex thereof with a lithium salt The nucleophilic species R B is generally present in the form of a Grignard reagent of formula R The following route illustrates a typical procedure, the transformation b of which is analagous to one described in Tetrahedron Letters 1982, 4669. or In the foregoing reaction scheme R Intermediates of formula R In a yet further process within the scope of the present invention for the production of a compound I, an alcohol of formula R Compounds of formula R Intermediates of formula R Compounds of formula I can be used to combat pest infestation in the domestic, horticultural or agricultural or medical, including veterinary, areas. The present invention also includes within its scope a process for the production of a pesticidal composition which comprises formulating a compound of formula I with an inert carrier or diluent and compositions thereby produced. The compound of formula I in the composition is normally contaminated by less than 50 on a molar basis of the isomer II ArCR₁ R₂CR₃HCR₄ CDR Compositions may be in the form of dusts and granular solids, wettable powders, mosquito coils and other solid preparations or as emulsions, emulsifiable concentrates, sprays and aerosols and other liquid preparations after the addition of appropriate solvents, diluents and surface active agents. Agriculturally and horticulturally applicable compositions, which require the active ingredient to possess significant photostability are of particular interest and especially compositions which are acceptable for application to crops, such as rice, which are cultivated in environments in which fish are exposed to the compound I. It will be appreciated that fish safety is of great importance in such applications and that suitable compositions should contain no fish toxic ingredients. The pesticidal compositions of the invention normally contain from 0.001 to 25 , by weight of the compound of formula I but the compositions can contain higher concentrations of active ingredient of formula I e.g. up to 95 in compositions to be sold as concentrates for dilution before use by the ultimate user. The compositions of the invention can, depending on the intended application, include diluents such as hydrocarbon oils, e.g. xylene or other petroleum fractions, water, anionic, cationic or non ionic surface active agents, anti oxidants and other stabilisers as well as perfumes and colouring matters. These inert ingredients may be of the type and in proportions such as are conventionally used in pesticidal compositions containing pyrethroid like compounds. In addition to these inactive ingredients, the compositions of the present invention may contain one or more further active ingredients which may be other pesticidal compounds of the pyrethroid type or of other types and the composition may also include synergists particularly those of a type known to be capable of synergising the activity of natural pyrethrin and pyrethroid like insecticides. Synergists of this type include piperonyl butoxide, tropital and sesamex. Compounds of formula I may be applied in such a manner that pest infestation is diminished or prevented or both. In accordance with a further aspect of the present invention, a method of pest control comprises treating a pest or a surface or environment susceptible to pest infestation with an effective amount of a compound of formula I R The compounds or compositions of the invention can be used as insecticides or acaricides for example in a domestic environment in spraying rooms to combat infestation with houseflies or other insects, they can be used for treatment of stored crops or cereals to combat infestation by insects or other pests, they can be used to spray growing crops, e.g. cotton to combat infestation by common pests and they can be used in the medical or veterinary field, e.g. as a cattle spray to prevent or treat infestation by insects or other pests. It is envisaged, however, that the compounds and compositions of the present invention will be of especial interest for application to crops which are cultivated in environments in which fish are exposed to pesticides. The present invention is of particular interest for controlling rice pests, particularly The spectrum of effectiveness of the compounds of formula I is demonstrated by activity against mosquito larvae, houseflies, black bean aphids, red spider mite, and The present invention further includes within its scope the use of a compound of formula I for the manufacture of a pesticide, typically an insecticide or acaricide and in particular a pesticide for use in controlling rice pests. The compounds are additionally of interest for the control of pests such as the following from the class of the Isopoda, for example Oniscus asellus, Armadillidium vulgare and Porcellio scaber from the class of the Diplopoda, for example Blaniulus guttulatus from the class of the Chilopoda, for example Geophilus carpophagus and Scutigera spec from the class of the Symphyla, for example Scutigerella immaculata from the order of the Thysanura, for example lepisma saccharine from the order of the Collembola, for example Onychiurus armatus from the order of the Orthoptera, for example Blatta orientalis, Periplaneta americana, Leucophaea madarae, Acheta domesticus, Cryllotalpa spp., Locusta migratoria migratorioides, Melanoplus differentialis and Schistocerca gregaria from the order of the Dermaptera, for example Forficula auricularia from the order of the Isoptera, for example Reticulitermes spp from the order of the Anoplura, for example Phylloxera vastatrix, Pemphigus spp., Pediculus humanus corporis, Haematopinus spp. and Linognathus spp from the order of the Mallophaga, for example Trichodectes spp. and Demalinea spp from the order of the Thysanoptera, for example Hercinothrips fermoralis and Thrips tabaci from the order of the Heteroptera, for example Eurygaster spp., Dysdercus intermedius, Piesma quadrata, Cimex lectularius, Rhodnius prolius and Triatoma spp from the order of the Homoptera, for example Aleurodes brassicae, Bemisia tabaci, Trialeurodes vaporariorum, Aphis gossypii, Brevicoryne brassicae, Cryptomyzus ribis, Doralis fabae, Doralis pomi, Eriosoma lanigerum, Hyalopterus arundinis, Macrosiphum avenae, Myzus spp., Phorodon humuli, Rhopalosiphum padi, Empoasca spp., Euscelis bilobatus, Lecanium corni, Saissetia oleae, Laodelphax striatellus, Aondiiella aurantii, Aspidiotus hederae, Pseudococcus spp. and Psylla spp from the order of the Lepidoptera, for example Pectinophora gossypiella, Bupalus piniarius, Cheimatobia brumata, Lithocolletis blancardella, Hyponomeuta padella, Plutella maculipennis, Malacosoma neustria, Euproctis Chrysorrhoea, Lymantria spp., Bucculatrix thurberiella, Phyllocnistis citrella, Agrotis spp., Euxoa spp., Feltia spp., Earias insulana, Laphygma exigua, Mamestra brassicae, Panolis flammea, Prodenia litura, Trichoplusia ni, Carpocapsa pomonella, Fieris spp., Pyrausta nubilalis, Ephestia kuehniella, Galleria mellonella, Cacoecia podana, Capua reticulana, Choristoneura fumiferana, Clysia ambiguella, Homona magnanima and Tortrix viridana from the order of the Coleoptera, for example Anobium punctatum, Thizopertha dominica, Bruchidius obtectus, Acanthoscelides obtectus, Hylotrupes bajulus, Agelastica alni, Leptinotarsa decemlineata, Phaedon cochleariae, Diabrotica spp., Psylliodes chrysocephala, Epilachna varivestis, Atomaria spp., Oryzaephilus surinamensis, Sitophilus spp., Otiorrhynchus sulcatus, Cosmoplites sordidus, Geuthorrhynchus assimilis, Hyperapostica, Dermestes spp., Trogoderma spp., Anthrenus spp., Attagenus spp., Lyctus spp., Meligethes aeneus, Ptinus spp., Niptus hololeucus, Gibbium psylloides, Tribolium spp., Tenebrio molitor, Agriotes spp., Conoderus spp., Melolontha melolontha, Amphimallon solstitialis and Costelytra zealandica from the order of the Hymenoptera, for example Diprion spp., Hoplacampa spp., Lasius spp., Monomorium pharaonis and Vespa spp., from the order of the Diptera, for example Aedes spp., Anopheles spp., Culex spp., Drosophila melanogaster, Musca spp., Fannia spp., Calliphora erythrocephala, Lucilia spp., Chrysomyia spp., Cuterebra spp., Gastrophilus spp., Hyppobosca spp., Stomoxys spp., Oestrus spp., Hypoderma spp., Tabanus spp., Tannia spp., Bibio hortulanus, Oscinella frit, Phorbia spp., Pegomyia hyoscyami, Ceratitis capitata, Dacus oleae and Tipula paludosa from the order of the Siphonaptera, for example Xenopsylla cheopis and Ceratophyllus spp. from the class of the Arachnida, for example Scorpio maurus and Latrodectus mactans from the order of the Acarina, for example Acarus siro, Argas spp., Ornithodoros spp., Dermanyssus gallinae, Eriophyes ribis, Phyllocoptruta oleivora, Boophilus spp., Rhipicephalus spp., Amblyomma spp., Hyalomma spp., Ixodes spp., Psoroptes spp., Chorioptes spp., Sarcoptes spp., Tarsonemus spp., Bryobia praetiosa, Panonychus spp. and Tetranychus spp. The invention is illustrated by the following Examples Temperatures are in C and refractive indices are measured at 20 C. A mixture of 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 cyclopropanemethanol 7 g pyridinium dichromate 21.7 g and dichloromethane 200 ml is stirred overnight at room temperature. Petroleum ether b.p. 40 60 C 200 ml is added and stirring continued for another 30 minutes. The mixture is filtered through a pad of celite and charcoal and the solvent is evaporated off under reduced pressure. The residue is distilled at 0.3 mm Hg and the main fraction, bp 73 75 C consists of the required aldehyde, yield 5.2 g, n To a stirred solution of dry carbon tetrabromide 11 g in dry dichloromethane 200 ml under nitrogen is added triphenylphosphine 17.4g . After 15 minutes 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 cyclopropanemethanal 3 g dissolved in dichloromethane 10 ml is added. The mixture is stirred for 2 hours at room temperature, poured onto saturated ammonium chloride solution and extracted with petroleum ether b.p.60 80 C x3 . The combined extracts are washed with water, dried and the solvent evaporated off under reduced pressure to give the required compound, yield 5.1 g, n To a stirred solution of 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 2,2 dibromovinyl cyclopropane 1 g in dry ether 50 ml under nitrogen and cooled to 78 C, is added 1.6 M To a stirred solution of 2 methyl 2 butene 0.5 ml in dry ether 2 ml under nitrogen at 0 C, is added borane methyl sulphide complex 1.15 ml of 2 M solution in ether and the mixture stirred for 1 hour. A solution of 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 ethynylcyclopropane 0.4 g in ether 5 ml is added in one portion, stirred for 10 minutes and then allowed to warm to room temperature over 1 hour. The ether is then evaporated off at reduced pressure and the residue dissolved in dry benzene 10 ml and kept under nitrogen. In another flask, tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium O 0.1g is stirred under nitrogen in dry benzene 10 ml and a solution of 3 phenoxybenzyl bromide 0.6 g in dry benzene 10 ml added over 10 minutes. To this mixture is then added the reagent prepared above followed by 2 M aqueous sodium hydroxide 2.3 ml and the mixture is refluxed for about two hours. After cooling 3Maq. sodium hydroxide 1 ml is added followed by 30 H₂O₂ 1 ml . After cessation of the exothermic reaction, the reaction mixture is stirred at room temperature for half an hour, poured onto water, and extracted with ether x3 . The combined extracts are washed with water, dried and the solvent removed under reduced pressure. The product is isolated by thin layer chromatography on silica eluting with neat petroleum ether b.p 40 60 C to yield 0.41 g,n The following aldehydes are prepared as described in Example 1 A d.1 3,4 methylenedioxyphenyl 1 cyclopropane methanal, n 20 D1.5545 e.1 4 ethoxyphenyl 2,2 difluoro 1 cyclopropane methanal, n 20 D1,5063 The precursor for compound e is prepared as follows To 1.0g of lithium aluminium hydride in 120 ml of dry ether, at room temperature is added dropwise 5.4g 0.02 moles of ethyl 1 4 ethoxyphenyl 2,2 difluorocyclopropane 1 carboxylate in 20 ml of ether. The reaction mixture is stirred for 1 hr after which 1.0 ml of water 1.0 ml of 15 NaOH, followed by 3.0 ml of water are added. The solid precipitate is filtered off, washed with ether and the combined filtrates dried and concentrated under reduced pressure to yield 4.2g a colourless oil n To 7.5 ml 0.012 mol of 1.7 M To 0.625 g 0.0033 M of 1 cyano 1 4 ethoxyphenyl cyclopropane in dry benzene 25 ml and dry heptane 10 ml at 0 C under an atmosphere of nitrogen, di isobutylaluminium hydride in hexane 3.4 ml of 1M., 0.0033 mol is added dropwise via a hypodermic syringe The mixture is stirred at 0 C for 3 hours, then allowed to warm to room temperature, poured onto saturated ammonium chloride and ice and is acidified with dil. H₂SO₄ then extracted with ether. The ethereal layer is washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate, saturated sodium chloride, and dried. The solvent is removed under reduced pressure and the aldehyde is purified by column chromatography on florisil with petroleum ether b.p.60 80 C. as eluant. Yield 0.42 g n The above aldehydes are converted to the corresponding dibromovinyl compounds by following the method of Example 1 B to give The following acetylenes are prepared by following the method of Example 1 C The following olefins are prepared by following the method of Example 1 D For production of compounds 7 and 8 the method of Example 1 D is modified by diminishing the time the reaction mixture is exposed to alkaline hydrogen peroxide to five minutes. A mixture of 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 cyclopropane methanal 1.80 g 0.01 M , 3 phenoxy acetophenone 2.12 g 0.01M , and 3.0 g of potassium hydroxide in 25 ml of ethanol is stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The reaction mixture is poured into 200 ml of water and extracted with ether. The ether extract is washed with water, dried and the solvent is removed under reduced pressure to give 4.1 g of crude 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 E 3 3 phenoxyphenyl prop 1 en 3 onyl cyclopropane, which is purified by column chromatography on 100 g of florisil eluant petroleum ether b.p.60 80 C and ethyl acetate 9 1 to give 3.04 g of the pure product, n To 1.87 g 0.005 M of 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 E 3 3 phenoxy phenyl 1 prop 1 en 3 onyl cyclopropane in 30ml of ethanol is added 0.28 g 0.0075 mol, 1.5 mol eq. of sodium borohydride and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 3 hours. Water 20 ml is then added, followed by dil HCl 25 ml and the mixture is taken up in ether 150 ml . The ethereal layer is washed with sodium bicarbonate x2 water x3 and dried. The solvent is removed under reduced pressure to give the crude intermediate alcohol 1.88g. The alcohol 1.88g, 0.005 mol and triethylsilane 0.87 g, 0.0075 mol, 1.5 mol eq in 50 ml of dry dichloromethane are cooled using an acetone solid carbon dioxide bath under an atmosphere of nitrogen. Dropwise addition of boron trifluoride etherate 0.77 g, 0.0055 mol. gives a solution which is stirred until thin layer chromatography indicates that no alcohol is present and is then quenched by addition of ca. 15 ml of aqueous sodium bicarbonate. The cooling bath is removed and the solution allowed to warm to room temperature with vigorous stirring. The mixture is transferred to a separating funnel, ether 100 ml is added and the whole washed with bicarbonate 50 ml and water x2 . Drying and removal of the solvents affords an oil. Purification by column chromatography on florisil using petroleum ether b.p 60 80 C as eluant yields 1.02 g of an oil, a 3 7 mixture of the two olefins. They are separated using petroleum ether b.p. 40 60 C as eluant by thin layer chromatography on silica, the plate being developed three times. 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 E 3 3 phenoxyphenyl prop 1 enyl cylopropane n To a stirred solution of 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 cyclopropane methanol 1.8 g in dry tetrahydrofuran 60 ml at 78 C is added IM vinylmagnesium bromide 12 ml in tetrahydrofuran over 10 mins. The mixture is then allowed to warm to 20 C and saturated aqueous ammonium chloride added 30 ml . The mixture is concentrated under reduced pressure, and extracted with ether x3 . The combined extracts are dried and the solvent evaporated under reduced pressure to the required compound, 3 g,n To a stirred solution of 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 1 hydroxyprop 2 enyl cyclopropane 2 g in petroleum ether b.pt 60 80 C 100ml is added 48 aqueous hydrobromic acid 30 ml whilst maintaining the temperature between 20 C and 10 C. After ½h, water 100 ml is added and the mixture extracted with petroleum ether b.p.60 80 C x3 . The combined extracts are washed with water, saturated sodium bicarbonate, dried and the solvent evaporated off under reduced pressure to give the required compound, 2.8g, n A Grignard reagent is prepared at 20 C by reacting 3 phenoxy phenyl bromide 0.3 g and dry magnesium turnings 0.26g in dry ether 4 ml and cooled to 78 C. Cuprous bromide 0.03g is added followed by a solution of 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 E 3 bromoprop 1 enyl cyclopropane 0.28g in dry tetrahydrofuran 4 ml added over 3 min. The mixture is stirred at 78 C for 5 min and then allowed to warm to room temperature over 15h. Saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 10 ml is added and the mixture extracted with ether x3 , washed with water, dried and the solvent evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue is purified by thin layer chromatography, eluting with petroleum ether b.p. 60 80 C. Yield 0.3g. Pesticidal activity is assessed against houseflies and mustard beetles by using the following techniques Female flies are treated on the thorax with a one microlitre drop of insecticide dissolved in acetone. Two replicates of 15 flies are used at each dose rate and 6 dose rates are used per compound under test. After treatment, the flies are maintained at a temperature of 20 1 and kill is assessed 24 and 48 hours after treatment. LD₅₀ values are calculated in micrograms of insecticide per fly and relative toxicities are calculated from the inverse ratios of the LD₅₀ values see Sawicki Acetone solutions of the test compound are applied ventrally to adult mustard beetles using a micro drop applicator. The treated insects are maintained for 48 hours after which time kill is assessed. Two replicates of 40 to 50 mustard beetles are used at each dose level and 5 dose levels are used for each compound. LD₅₀ values and thence relative potencies are calculated as for houseflies. For both insect species relative potencies are calculated by comparison with 5 benzyl 3 furylmethyl 1R Relative potencies to Houseflies and Mustard Beetles Bioresmethrin 100 are given under HF and MB respectively in the Table.