# BISPECIFIC ANTIBODY DETERMINANTS

## Claims
Verfahren zum Erzeugen einer bispezifischen monoklonalen Antikörperdeterminante, das die Schritte aufweist es werden zwei unterschiedliche monoklonale Antikörperdeterminante bereitgestellt, wobei jede Determinante zwei identische L H Halbmoleküle enthält, die durch eine oder mehrere Disulfidbrücken miteinander verbunden sind,

## Description
The IgG antibodies are known to consist of two half molecules, each consisting of a light L chain and a heavy H chain. The H chains of the two halves are linked by disulfide bonds, which can be broken by selective reduction. If this step is performed for two different IgG samples, the half molecules can be combined to form hybrid antibodies. This has been accomplished using intact rabbit globulins Nisonoff et al. 1964 Science 134, 376 379. The IgA antibodies can also be split into identical half molecules. Hybrids have also been formed using the F ab ₂ fragments of IgG antibodies, rather than intact antibodies i.e., the F c portions of the molecules, which do not provide immunospecificity, are, prior to hybridization, removed by digestion with an appropriate protease such as pepsin. This procedure has been described in Nisonoff et al. 1960 Arch. Biochem. Biophys. The use of such hybrids for the delivery of cytotoxic drugs has also been suggested in Raso and Griffin 1978 Fed. Proc. Milstein 1981 Proc. R. Soc. Lond. Hybrid antibodies have also been formed by fusing two cells, each capable of producing different antibodies, to make a hybrid cell capable of producing hybrid antibodies. Such a method is described in Milstein Cuello 1983 Nature Another paper, Raso et al. 1981 Cancer Research The present invention provides a method of preparing a bispecific monoclonal antibody determinant comprising the steps of providing two different monoclonal antibody determinants, each said determinant comprising two identical L H half molecules linked by one or more disulfide bond, Preferably the process further includes, prior to the combining step, derivatizing one pair of identical half molecules with a thiol activating agent which facilitates the formation of the disulfide bonds between the thiol activated half molecules and the different half molecules. In other preferred embodiments, the monoclonal antibodies are IgG most preferably IgG , or, less preferably, IgG2A, IgG2B, or IgG3 or IgA each half molecule, if derived from an IgG antibody, includes at least the F ab portion the thiol activating agent prevents the recombination of the thiol activated half molecules and the thiol activating agent is 5,5 dithiobis 2 nitrobenzoic acid , 2,2 dipyridine disulfide, 4,4 dipyridine disulfide, or a mixture of sulfite and tetrathionate. The use of thiol activating agents to link F ab fragments to other proteins has been described, e.g., in Raso et al. 1980 J. Immunol. Where the recombination of like half molecules with each other is prevented, purification of bispecific determinants from the mixture can be carried out simply on the basis of molecular size, e.g. by gel filtration this is possible because the only molecules in the solution, half molecules and bispecific hybrids, are different in size by a factor of two. Other separation methods are, e.g., ion exchange and isoelectric focusing. Figure 1 is a diagrammatic representation of an assembly useful in a bioluminescence assay. Figure 2 is a diagrammatic representation of a channeling immunoassay employing bispecific monoclonal antibody determinants. Figure 3 is a diagrammatic representation of a fluorescent energy transfer immunoassay employing bispecific monoclonal antibody determinants. Figure 4 is a diagrammatic representation showing the structure of a rabbit IgG₁ compared to mouse IgG₁. Figure 5 is a diagrammatic representation of competing intrachain disulfide reactions in mouse half molecules. Figure 6 is a diagrammatic representation of a preferred method of preparing bispecific monoclonal antibody determinants. Figure 7 is a diagrammatic representation of a luminescent energy transfer immunoassay employing bispecific monoclonal antibody determinants. The bispecific monoclonal antibody determinants of the invention are useful for a wide range of applications. These applications all flow from the ability of these determinants to serve as highly specific linkers through specific sites B , of any two antigenic determinants capable of stimulating antibody production in animals e.g., effective proteins, polypeptides, carbohydrates, nucleic acids, or haptens, either free or immobilized on surfaces or particles. One application of the bispecific antibody determinants of the invention is their use as agents for bonding a desired antigenic entity to a desired surface which contains or has immobilized on it a different antigenic determinant. For example, enzymes so immobilized on particles or membranes can be used as solid state catalysts. Advantages of this type of immobilization over others are that antibodies can be selected which have no adverse effect on enzyme activity, and that pure enzymes can be immobilized from impure mixtures. Bispecific antibody determinants can also be used as highly specific bispecific reagents for immunoassay procedures which are used, e.g., in the diagnosis of medical disorders, or as molecular probes to study the relationships between antigenic determinants in biological systems. An additional application of the bispecific antibody determinants is their use in electrodes. The invention can be used in electrodes of any configuration, e.g. in solid state sensors such as field effect transistors e.g., as described in Wohltjen 1984 Analyt. Chem. Enzyme electrodes made using bispecific antibody determinants possess several advantages over conventional enzyme electrodes. One advantage is their precise self assembling property the desired electrode assembly is generated simply by attaching the appropriate hapten or haptens to the membrane either the electrode membrane or a separate membrane associated with the electrode and then immersing the hapten derived membrane into a solution containing the appropriate bispecific antibodies and enzymes. This ease of assembly also means that the electrode can be easily recharged after deterioration has occurred through prolonged use. Another advantage of the electrodes is also a function of the specificity of the bispecific antibody determinants. Any given enzyme will possess a number of antigenic sites capable of binding to a specific site of an antibody. However, coupling at many of these sites can cause inactivation of the enzyme. In the case of bispecific monoclonal antibody determinants, this problem is avoided because the determinants are selected so that they couple with the enzyme only at a site which does not cause deactivation of the enzyme. A further advantage is that assembly or recharging of the electrode can be done with impure enzyme mixtures because the unique specificity of the bispecific antibody determinants assures the selection of the proper enzymes from the impure mixture. In some instances, the electrode assembly can be stabilized with a mild bifunctional cross linker, e.g., dimethyl suberimidate. Yet another application for the bispecific antibody determinants is their use in the formation of self assembling networks for use, e.g., as molecular microciruits. The above applications are described in more detail in Paulus U.S. Pat. No. 4,444,878, hereby incorporated by reference. We turn now to a more detailed discussion of the formation of the bispecific antibody determinants of the invention, and to the particular method used where the antibodies are of mouse origin. Figure 4 illustrates the difference in structure between rabbit IgG₁ antibodies and mouse IgG₁ antibodies which comprise most monoclonal antibodies. These structures differ in the number of disulfide bonds linking the heavy chains. The two halves of rabbit IgG₁ are held together by a single bond, and the reduction of F ab ₂ to F ab monomer as well as the reassociation of monomer to the dimer thus involves the breakage and reformation of only one bond, a relatively simple process. In contrast, the heavy chains of mouse IgG₁ are linked by 3 disulfide bonds, and their breakage and reformation can lead to competing intrachain side reactions of the type illustrated in Figure 5, which can significantly diminish the yield of desired product. The intrachain reaction renders the half molecule unavailable for combination with a different half molecule. The method of the invention allows the production of pure bispecific monoclonal antibody determinants in high yield, from mouse monoclonal antibodies as well as from antibodies derived from other mammalian species. The method involves the following sequence of steps. Using conventional methods, two different monoclonal IgG₁ antibody samples are produced, each antibody having one of two desired specificities. Each sample is then exposed to an appropriate protease such as pepsin to cleave off the F c portion of the antibody molecule to produce an F ab ₂ fragment. Each sample is then subjected to conditions sufficient to break the disulfide bonds linking the F ab half molecules, but not any of the other disulfide bonds in the molecule. At the same time, these conditions are such as to prevent the formation of disulfides within a single heavy chain, for example by the addition of a dithiol complexing agent e.g. sodium arsenite as shown in Figure 6 , an aromatic arsenite such as phenylarsine oxide, or CdCl₂ , or by modifying the conformation of the heavy chain e.g. by lowering the pH to 4.2 , or by removing all but one of the reduced cysteine residues with a proteolytic enzyme e.g. carboxypeptidase Y . One of the samples is then exposed to a thiol activating agent to complex all free thiols, forming a derivative that can react rapidly with other free thiols to form disulfides, as shown at the end of sequence 1 in Figure 6. Among the agents suitable for this purpose are aromatic disulfides such as DTNB Ellman 1959 Arch. Biochem. Biophys. Alternatively, both samples can be exposed to the thiol activating agent to form the activated thiol derivatives. This is frequently convenient because of the relatively good stability of the activated derivatives. One of the samples is then treated with an excess of a low molecular weight thiol to regenerate the free thiols on the F ab monomer, followed by separation from excess low molecular thiols. Intramolecular disulfide bond formation can be avoided by the addition of a dithiol complexing agent sequence 2 of Figure 6 or by modifying the conformation of the heavy chain. It may in some instances, however, be desirable to permit the formation of intramolecular disulfide bonds. This sample is then combined sequence 3 of Figure 6 with the other F ab sample in the thiol activated form under conditions where at least some half molecules combine chemically to form bispecific F ab ₂. Since the F ab ₂ fraction produced under those conditions consists only of the desired bispecific antibody determinants, provided appropriately purified monoclonal antibodies have been used as starting materials, homogenous bispecific antibody determinants can be obtained simply by removing the monomeric F ab fraction from the desired F ab ₂ on the basis of molecular size, by a convenient procedure such as gel filtration. The following procedure is used to prepare a homogenous sample of identical bispecific antibody determinants in which each bispecific determinant has a site specific for a unique antigenic site on the protein avidin, and a site specific for a unique antigenic site on the enzyme B galactosidase. This procedure follows the steps generally illustrated in Figure 6. The first step is the preparation of monoclonal antibodies against the two proteins avidin and B galactosidase. This is done by first immunizing one group of BALB C mice against each enzyme using standard immunization procedures. Following immunization, spleen cells of immunized animals are prepared and fused with a derivative of MOPC 21 myeloma cells e.g., NS1 or SP2 O Ag14 using the procedure described in Galfre et al. 1981 Methods in Enzymology The desired IgG₁ antibodies against avidin and B galactosidase are then purified from ascites fluid essentially as described by Parham et al. 1982 Journal of Immunological Methods The F ab ₂ fractions are then completely converted to Fab monomer by reduction with 1 mM 2 mercaptoethylamine in 1 mM EDTA, 10 mM sodium arsenite, and 0.1 M sodium phosphate, pH 6.8, for 18 hours at 25 C. The mixture is then supplemented with solid DTNB to final concentration of 20 mM. After 2 3 hours at 25 C, excess DTNB and low molecular weight products are removed by centrifugal gel filtration on Sephadex G 25 equilibrated with 0.1 M sodium phosphate, pH 6.8, and 1 mM EDTA. The resulting thionitrobenzoate derivatives of the Fab monomers are relatively stable and can be stored for several days without significant decomposition. One of the thionitrobenzoate derivates of Fab monomer derived from the anti avidin antibody is then converted back to the free thiol form complexed with dithiol by incubating for 30 minutes at 25 C with 10 mM mercaptoethylamine in 1 mM EDTA, and 0.1 M sodium phosphate, pH 6.8. The excess mercaptoethylamine and low molecular weight reaction products are then removed by centrifugal gel filtration on Sephadex G 25 equilibrated with 0.1 M sodium phosphate, pH 6.8, and 1 mM EDTA. The resulting anti avidin F ab thiol is then contacted immediately with an equimolar amount of the thionitrobenzoate derivative of the anti B galactosidase Fab , at a protein concentration of 0.5 mg ml or higher, for 3 20 hours at 25 C, to allow formation of bispecific F ab ₂. The mixture is then supplemented with solid DTNB to a final concentration of 5 mM and left for 3 hours at 25 C to promote dissipation of any non covalent dimeric material. Homogenous bispecific antibody determinant against avidin and B galactosidase is then prepared by separating the F ab ₂ fraction from residual Fab monomers by high performance liquid chromatography on TSK 3000 SW in 0.1 M in sodium phosphate, pH 6.8, a procedure which does no damage to the F ab ₂, and does not require its being bonded to anything else, minimizing the risk for conformational changes which could affect activity. The formation of the desired bispecific antibody determinant can be conveniently demonstrated by its ability to cause the avidin dependent binding of B galactosidase to disks of biotin substituted cellulose. The bispecific antibody determinant can be coupled to a biotin substituted cellulose membrane in an assay for a compound, e.g., lactose, which B galactosidase can help measure as is explained in more detail below . Anti B galactosidase can be immobilized on the biotin substituted membrane by simply contacting the membrane which has avidin bonded to the biotin with the bispecific determinant having an anti avidin half and an anti B galactosidase half, and with B galactosidase. In a similar manner, glucose oxidase can be immobilized to the membrane. Using the same procedure described above, two bispecific molecules can be made, the first having specificity for a unique antigenic site on the enzyme glucose oxidase and for an antigenic site on B galactosidase, and the second having specificity for a different antigenic site on glucose oxidase and for an antigenic site on Type I collagen. These can be used to form an electrode for measuring lactose generally, as described in Paulus, The following is a description of an example of the type of assay which employs the measurement of a substance which can be measured colorimetrically, reflectometrically, luminescently, or fluorometrically, as a measure of an unknown amount of a substance being assayed. Generally, the assay measures the amount of an unknown substance in a liquid sample, which substance is acted on by at least a first enzyme to evolve a measurable ion or compound which can be used as a measure of the unknown substance. The assay involves linking the first enzyme to a solid support e.g. a bead or a membrane support , or to a previously sequentially acting second enzyme, by means of a bispecific antibody determinant of the invention having specificity for the first enzyme and for the support or the second enzyme. As many sequential enzymes as are involved in the reaction sequence can be linked this way, with the last to act generally being linked to the support. The sample is contacted with the linked enzyme or enzymes immobilized on the support, and the measurable ion or compound is measured. Unknown substances which can be measured include, e.g., blood sugar. Alternatively, the sequential enzymes can be linked indirectly through an unknown substance to be measured through appropriate bispecific antibodies. This extends the range of substances that can be measured to biomolecules such as hormones e.g., human chorionic gonadotropin, measured in pregnancy tests, and insulin . Figure 1 illustrates an arrangement of self assembling enzymes linked by bispecific antibody determinants shown as chevrons linking circular enzymes . The last enzyme in the sequence luciferase can be immobilized using, e.g. avidin and a biotin substituted membrane not shown . Luciferase, when reduced as shown, is bioluminescent the reaction chain shown is described in greater detail in Wienhausen and DeLuca 1982 Anal. Biochem. Figure 2 illustrates a channeling immunoassay which employs two bispecific monoclonal antibody determinants. The illustrated assay employs some of the principles of the channeling immunoassay described in Litman et al. 1980 Anal. Biochem. Figure 3 illustrates a fluorescent energy transfer immunoassay analogous to the assay of Figure 2 the difference is that in the energy transfer assay, light, rather than organic substrates, is sequentially acted on to produce a measurable result. The assay employs two fluorescent proteins, in the illustrated assay, these are phycoerythrin Phy and allophycocyanine All , both produced by blue green algae and described, as being useful in immunoassays, in Glazer and Stryer 1983 Biophys. J. A closely related type of immunoassay, illustrated in Figure 7, involves luminescence energy transfer between a luminescent molecule and a fluorescent substance, as in Patel et al. 1983 Analytical Biochemistry Other embodiments are within the following claims. For example, although IgG₁ antibodies are preferred, IgG₂ and IgA antibodies can also be used in the invention. Also, the entire half molecule, rather than just the F ab portion, can be used. Yield can be improved slightly by using, as the dithiol complexing agent, instead of sodium arsenite, 0.25 mM phenylarsine oxide.