# ANTACID COMPOSITION

## Claims
Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragsstaaten BE, CH, DE, FR, GB, IT, LU, NL, SE

## Description
The present invention relates to pharmaceutical compositions and particularly to compositions for use in treating gastroesophageal and gastrointestinal irritations. Esophageal pain, commonly experienced as heartburn, is symptomatic of gastric reflux. Gastric reflux occurs when small amounts of gastric juice and or bile acids pass into the lower part of the esophagus and cause esophageal irritation. The invention relates to a composition useful in the treatment of reflux esophagitis. Persistent gastric reflux has been treated by attempting to reduce gastric volume, acidity of the gastric contents, and accelerate gastric emptying. Reduction in gastric pH is commonly effected by frequent ingestion, for example, in hourly intervals, of antacid preparations such as aluminum hydroxide gel. Other methods include the administration of drugs such as bethanechiol Urecholine and metachlopramide Reglan , which increase the tone of the lower esophageal sphincter and accelerate gastric emptying. If these methods do not reverse the inflammatory process, surgical therapy is often recommended. Another approach to the problem of gastric reflux comprises the administration of a preparation which forms a foam or raft which floats on the stomach contents. The foam containing antacid precedes the stomach contents into the esophagus when reflux occurs and helps to protect the mucosa from further irritation. The gelatinous foam is formed by the combination of an acid insoluble gelatinous material entrapping CO₂ gas. Heretofore known preparations used to create the foam comprise sodium bicarbonate and either solid compositions or liquid suspensions of alginic acid or its sodium salt. Exemplary of such prior art preprarations include the product Gaviscon Marion Laboratories and compositions described in U.S. Patent No. 4,140,760. Such known compositions contain relatively small amounts of antacid material and relatively large amounts of sodium. Accordingly, they are not particularly effective when used by patients who require a substantial adjustment of gastric pH and or problems can be encountered when they are used by patients who should not receive an excessive amount of sodium. Unlisted Drugs, Vol. 29, No. 5, May, 1977, discloses a tablet for use in the treatment of peptic oesophagitis. The tablet contains 350 mg of alginic acid, 105 mg of sodium bicarbonate and 100 mg of an aluminium hydroxide magnesium carbonate mixture. Unlisted Drugs, Vol. 16, No. 8, August, 1964, discloses a powder for use as an antacid comprising 50 alginic acid, 10 aluminium hydroxide, 2.5 magnesium trisilicate, and 17 sodium bicarbonate. U.S. Patent Specification No. 4 140 760 relates to a pharmaceutical composition for the suppression of gastric reflux. The disclosed composition contains sodium alginate, sodium bicarbonate and calcium carbonate. The present invention relates to a low sodium antacid composition useful in the treatment of reflux oesophagitis prepared from magnesium alginate and an effective acid neutralizing amount of an antacid. Another aspect of the present invention relates to an antacid composition comprising magnesium alginate and a combined form of magnesium carbonate and aluminium hydroxide, and particularly to aqueous suspensions comprising the aforesaid ingredients. According to the invention there is provided an antacid composition for the suppression of gastric reflux, which composition is substantially free of sodium and comprises magnesium alginate, potassium bicarbonate, and an effective acid neutralizing amount of an antacid comprising magnesium carbonate and aluminium hydroxide, the amount of said magnesium alginate being from 8 1 to 3 1 the weight of the amount of said potassium bicarbonate, and the total amount of said magnesium carbonate and said aluminium hydroxide being from 2 to 1 times the weight of said magnesium alginate. Magnesium alginate, one of the essential material for use in the present invention, can be prepared from alginic acid, which, like its salts such as sodium alginate, is a polymeric material composed of 1,4 linked residues of α D mannuronic acid and β L guluronic acid. The proportions of mannuronic to guluronic acid residues varies and depends on the brown algae source from which the alginate is extracted. Table 1 shows the composition of alginic acid obtained from various types of commercially important brown algae. A thorough discussion of the structure and properties of alginic acid and a number of its commercially available salts is found in the trade publication of Kelco, Division of Merck and Co., Inc., entitled Algin hydrophilic derivatives of alginic acid for scientific water control second edition . The varying composition of alginic acid and its derivatives is reflected in variations in certain of its physical properties including viscosity. Viscosity measurements of commercially available alginates using a Brookfield Model LVF Viscometer at 60 rpm with the appropriate spindle at 25 C of 1 to 2 solutions range from 0,01 Pas 10 cps to 17 Pas 17,000 cps. The pharmaceutical composition according to the present invention uses the magnesium salt of alginic acid and preferably magnesium alginate exhibiting a viscosity in a 7.5 weight solution, measured at 25 C by the Brookfield Model LVT Viscometer at 12 rpm, using spindle no. 2, of 0,01 to 1,7 Pas 10 to 1700 cps and preferably 0,1 to 1 Pas 100 to 1000 cps . The magnesium alginate may be prepared by a number of methods, but the preferred method comprises the reaction in aqueous media of magnesium carbonate and alginic acid, followed by the adjustment of the pH of the reaction mixture to 7.5. The preferred alginic acid used to prepare the magnesium salt comprises a polymer chain of mannuronic acid and guluronic acid segments in a ratio of mannuronic to guluronic acid of 0.4 1 to 2 1, and most preferably 0.4 1 to 1 1. In terms of weight percent, it is preferred that the alginic acid comprise 28 to 35 weight of mannuronic acid and 65 to 72 weight of guluronic acid. One species of brown algae which provides the most preferred source of alginic acid is The pharmaceutical composition according to the present invention includes an antacid material. The antacid material is preferably present in an amount at least sufficient to neutralize excess gastric acid present in the stomach. The weight ratio of antacid material to magnesium alginate ranges from 1 1 to 2 1. Exemplary antacid materials include magnesium hydroxide, aluminum hydroxide, magnesium carbonate, magnesium trisilicate, magaldrate, and mixtures thereof. The preferred antacid material comprises magnesium carbonate and aluminum hydroxide as separate ingredients and or in a combined form. This includes codried powders of magnesium carbonate and aluminum hydroxide, and compounds such as the hydrotalcites having a formula Al The pharmaceutical composition of the present invention can be used in tablets, powders or liquids. The liquid compositions are preferably aqueous suspensions in which the amount of antacid material provides an acid neutralizing capacity of 1 to 3 mEq ml of suspension. The tablet compositions include an amount of antacid material in each tablet which provides an acid neutralizing capacity equal to 5 to 10 ml of said aqueous suspension. The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention are substantially sodium free, that is, sodium is present in no more than 10 mg per dosage amount or 10 mg per 10 ml of the aqueous suspension of the present invention. Certain embodiments of the present invention may include a material which produces a nontoxic gas when contacted with aqueous acid such as gastric acid. The gas producing material may also function as the antacid material or be a separate ingredient in the composition. The preferred gas producing material is potassium bicarbonate. The compositions of the present invention which include a gas producing material form a gas, after ingestion, as a result of reacting with gastric acid in the stomach. The gas is trapped in the alginic acid gel formed by the composition thereby creating a gelatinous foamy mass of lower bulk density than the gastric contents. The gelatinous mass floats to the surface of the gastric contents and forms a physical barrier to gastric reflux, and precedes stomach contents into the esophagus. The gas producing material is present in an amount so as to provide an adequate volume of gas to float the alginic acid gel formed when the magnesium alginate composition is contacted with the gastric contents, and most preferably in an amount equal to one eighth to one third the weight of magnesium alginate. It will be understood that the rigidity, strength and thickness of the foamy mass formed in contact with gastric acid will depend upon the ratio of bicarbonate to magnesium alginate, and upon the viscosity of the magnesium alginate. A special embodiment of the present invention comprises a foamy mass forming composition including the gas producing material and a mixture of two or more viscosity grades of magnesium alginate. The use of two or more viscosity grades of the alginate provides for a stable, well knitted raft. A preferred composition comprises three parts of a high viscosity magnesium alginate such as a viscosity of between 0,9 and 1,4 Pas 900 and 1400 cps 7.5 weight percent solution and two parts of low viscosity magnesium alginate such as viscosity of between 0,08 and 0,15 Pas 80 to 150 cps 7.5 weight percent solution . The combination of the high and low viscosity grades results in a mixture of short and long alginate polymer chains and a viscosity as measured by a 5 weight percent solution of between 0,1 and 0,25 Pas 100 to 250 cps and preferably 0,2 Pas 200 cps . Another aspect of the present invention relates to the nature of the antacid material used in an aqueous suspension of the composition. By way of background, known floating antacid compositions include relatively small amounts of antacid material in amounts which can only neutralize a limited amount of acid and would not substantially change the gastric pH. Compositions of the present invention may include an amount of antacid material which can neutralize excess gastric acid present in the stomach. Suspensions of the type here involved should be stable for relatively long periods of time, such as one to two years, or at least be capable of being reconstituted by agitation subsequent to separation. In dilute suspensions, the coating out of a suspendant is a minor problem but in more concentrated compositions it can be a major problem. Furthermore, under certain conditions, aqueous suspensions including two antacids such as magnesium carbonate and aluminum hydroxide tend to interact and selectively separate one suspendant, such as magnesium carbonate. The antacid material is preferably present in the composition in a form which minimizes the interaction. Both of the foregoing problems can be inhibited or deterred according to the present invention by the use of a suspension stabilizer and the use of a combined form of magnesium carbonate and aluminum hydroxide. The suspension stabilizer is included in an amount which is effective to maintain the antacid material in suspension. The choice of stabilizer will depend on various factors, including the amount and viscosity grade of the magnesium alginate used in the composition and the amount, density and particle size of the antacid material. Preferably, the aqueous supensions contain from 0.1 to 1.5 weight volume of any pharmaceutically acceptable stabilizer which preferably does not contain sodium. Exemplary suspension stabilizers include tragacanth, guar gum, avicel, solka floc, pectin, pregelatinized potato starch, calcium carbonate, calcium saccharin, citric acid, or hydroxypropylmethylcellulose. It is preferred that the aqueous suspensions of the present invention have a long shelf life and not be subject to deterioration by microorganisms. Consequently the liquid compositions should contain a preservative. A combination of methyl and propyl p hydroxybenzoates methyl and propyl paraben may be employed, for example, in an amount of 0.1 and 0.05 weight volume, respectively. Antioxidants may also be included in the suspension to prevent discoloration over time. The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may also include one or more of a coloring, sweetening or flavoring agent. Tablet compositions according to the present invention may include binding agents and other ingredients known in the art to facilitate mixing, compressing, improved palatability and long term stability of the tablet. A preferred composition according to the present invention comprises A most preferred composition comprises said first portion of magnesium carbonate and said combined form of antacid material present in the composition in a ratio of 1 1 to 3 4. A preferred aqueous suspension includes an effective amount of suspension stabilizer as described above and exhibits an acid neutralizing capacity of 1 to 3 mEq ml and a viscosity of 0,1 to 0,3 Pas 100 to 300 centipoise . A particularly preferred suspension according to the present invention comprises 30 to 90 mg ml of magnesium alginate, 10 to 50 mg ml of magnesium carbonate, 10 to 50 mg ml of a combined form of aluminum hydroxide and magnesium carbonate and 2 to 20 mg ml of potassium bicarbonate. The present invention is illustrated by the following examples. The following suspension formulation is prepared using an amount of water such that each 5 ml dosage amount of suspension includes the indicated amounts of ingredients. The resulting product has a smooth consistency, is pourable and is physically and chemically stable over a period of six months at ambient temperature. The suspension has an acid neutralizing capacity of about 8.2 mEq 5ml about 1.6 mEq ml and a sodium content of less than 4 mg per 5 ml. Examples 2 through 7 describe other suspension formulations according to the present invention. The following examples relate to tablet formulations. Half strength tablet formulations are prepared from the following formulations. A full strength tablet is prepared by doubling the amounts of ingredients in the tablet examples above. The tablet of Example 9 is prepared by mixing the ingredients together and compressing the mixture into tablet form. The tablet of Examples 8 and 10 through 13 is prepared as follows A further optional ingredient for incorporation into the tablet formulation comprises a mild carboxylic acid, such as alginic acid. The acid functions to provide a sensation of fizzing in the mouth while chewing the tablet. The amount of the acid is directly dependent on the desired intensity of the fizzing sensation and increases in accordance with the increased fizzing action. If the desired fizzing action is substantial, then the amount of carbonate containing antacid material in the tablet is also increased so as to provide a sufficient source of carbon dioxide in the mouth as well as in the stomach. The additional carbonate containing antacid material may comprise about an acid equivalent amount of material.