# METAL PLATED POLY ARYL ETHER CONTAINING ARTICLES

## Claims
Metallplattierter Poly arylether enthaltender Gegenstand, wobei der Poly arylether eine Mischung eines Poly arylether Polymers, eines Styrol und oder Acryl Copolymers und 0,5 bis 20 Gewichtsprozent eines Polyhydroxyethers umfaßt.

## Description
This invention is directed to metal plated poly aryl ether containing articles, said poly aryl ether comprising a blend of a poly aryl ether polymer, a styrene polymer and or acrylic copolymers and a compatibilizing amount of a polyhydroxyether. Poly aryl ether polymers, particularly polysulfone, are tough, rigid, high strength thermoplastic materals which maintain their properties over a wide temperature range of from 66 to above 149 C 150 F to above 300 F. They have a continuous use temperature of about 149 C 300 F . They are hydrolytically stable and have excellent mechanical, electrical and chemical properties which allows them to be molded into a variety of articles. Articles made from these poly aryl ether polymers have been plated with metals. However, the polymer most widely used for metal plating is an acrylonitrile styrene butadiene ABS resin. The disadvantage of ABS is that it has a low heat distortion temperature. Thus, ABS cannot be used for applications such as high temperature plumbingware. It has now been found that an article made from a blend of a poly aryl ether , a styrene and or acrylic copolymer and a compatibilizing amount of a polyhydroxyether see EP A 90404 can be used in applications such as high temperature plumbingware. This blend can also be plated on plating lines procedures commonly used for ABS the standard of the plated plastics industry . This invention is directed to a metal plated poly aryl ether containing articles, the poly aryl ether comprising a blend of a poly aryl ether polymer, a styrene and or acrylic copolymer, and 0.5 to 20 weight percent of a polyhydroxyether. The poly aryl ether polymer may be described as a linear, thermoplastic polyarylene polyether wherein the arylene units are interspersed with other ether, sulfone or ketone linkages. These resins may be obtained by reaction of an alkali metal double salt of a dihydric phenol and a dihalobenzenoid or dinitrobenzenoid compound, either or both of which contain a sulfone or a ketone linkage, i.e., S0₂ or CO , between arylene groupings, to provide sulfone or ketone units in the polymer chain in addition to arylene units and ether units. The polymer has a basic structure comprising recurring units of the formula O E O E wherein E is the residuum, of the dihydric phenol and E is the residuum of the benzenoid compound having an inert electron withdrawing group in at least one of the positions ortho and para to the valence bonds both of said residua are valently bonded to the ether oxygens through aromatic carbon atoms. Such aromatic polyethers are included within the class of polyarylene polyether resins described in, for example, US A 3,264,536 and 4,175,175. It is preferred that the dihydric phenol be a weakly acidic dinuclear phenol such as, for example, the dihydroxyl diphenyl alkanes or the nuclear halogenated derivatives thereof, such as, for example, the 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane, 1,1 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl 2 phenyl ethane, bis 4 hydroxyphenyl methane, or their chlorinated derivatives containing one or two chlorines on each aromatic ring. Other materials also termed appropriately bisphenols are also highly valuable and preferred. These materials are the bisphenols of a symmetrical or unsymmetrical joining group, as, for example, ether oxygen O , carbonyl sulfone or hydrocarbon residues in which the two phenolic nuclei are joined to the same or different carbon atoms of the residue. Such dinuclear phenols can be characterized as having the structure wherein Ar is an aromatic group and preferably is a phenylene group, A₁ and A₂ can be the same or different inert substituent groups such as alkyl groups having from 1 to 4 carbons atoms, halogen atoms, i.e., fluorine, chlorine, bromine or iodine, or alkoxy radicals having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, a and b are integers having a value from 0 to 4, inclusive, and R₁ is representative of a bond between aromatic carbon atoms as in dihydroxyldiphenyl, or is a divalent radical, O , S , SO , S S , SO₂ , and divalent hydrocarbon radicals such as alkylene, alkylidene, cycloalkylene, cycloalkylidene, or the halogen, alkyl, aryl or like substituted alkylene, alkylidene and cycloaliphatic radicals as well as aromatic radicals and rings fused to both Ar groups. Examples of specific dihydric polynuclear phenols include among others the bis hydroxyphenyl alkanes such as 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane, 2,4 dihydroxydiphenylmethane, bis 2 hydroxyphenyl methane, bis 4 hydroxyphenyl methane, bis 4 hydroxy 2,6 dimethyl 3 methoxyphenyl methane, 1,1 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl ethane, 1,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl ethane, 1,1 bis 4 hydroxy 2 chlorophenyl ethane, 1,1 bis 3 methyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propane, 1,3 bis 3 methyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propane, 2,2 bis 3 phenyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propane, 2,2 bis 3 isopropyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propane, 2,2 bis 2 isopropyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propane, 2,2 bis 4 hydroxy naphthyl propane, 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl pentane, 3,3 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl pentane, 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl heptane, bis 4 hydroxyphenyl phenylmethane, 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl 1 phenyl propane, 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl 1,1,1,3,3,3, hexafluoro propane, and the like As herein used the E term defined as being the residuum of the dihydric phenol of course refers to the residue of the dihydric phenol after the removal of the two aromatic hydroxyl groups. Thus as is readily seen these polyarylene polyethers contain recurring groups of the residuum of the dihydric phenol and the residuum of the benzenoid compound bonded through an aromatic ether oxygen atom. Any dihalobenzenoid or dinitrobenzenoid compound or mixtures thereof can be employed in this invention which compound or compounds has the two halogens or nitro groups bonded to benzene rings having an electron withdrawing group in at least one of the positions ortho and para to the halogen or nitro group. The dihalobenzenoid or dinitrobenzenoid compound can be either mononuclear where the halogens or nitro groups are attached to the same benzenoid rings or polynuclear where they are attached to different benzenoid rings, as long as there is an activating electron withdrawing group in the ortho or para position of that benzenoid nucleus. Fluorine and chlorine substituted benzenoid reactants are preferred the fluorine compounds for fast reactivity and the chlorine compounds for their inexpensiveness. Fluorine substituted benzenoid compounds are most preferred, particularly when there is a trace of water present in the polymerization reaction system. However, this water content should be maintained below about 1 percent and preferably below 0.5 percent for best results. An electron withdrawing group can be employed as the activator group in these compounds. It should be, of course, inert under the reaction conditions, but otherwise its structure is not critical. Preferred are the strong activating groups such as the sulfone group bonding two halogen or nitro substituted benzenoid nuclei as in the 4,4 dichlorodiphenyl sulfone and 4,4 difluoro diphenyl sulfone, although such other strong electron withdrawing groups hereinafter mentioned can also be used with equal ease. The more powerful of the electron withdrawing groups give the fastest reactions and hence are preferred. It is further preferred that the ring contain no electron supplying groups on the same benzenoid nucleus as the halogen or nitro group however, the presence of other groups on the nucleus or in the residuum of the compound can be tolerated. Preferably, all of the substituents on the benzenoid nucleus are either hydrogen zero electron withdrawing , or other groups having a positive sigma value, as set forth in J.F. Bunnett in Chem. Rev. 49 273 1951 and Quart. Rev., The activating group can be basically either of two types If desired, the polymers may be made with mixtures of two or more dihalobenzenoid or dinitro benzenoid compounds. Thus, the E residuum of the benzenoid compounds in the polymer structure may be the same or different. It is seen also that as used herein, the E term defined as being the residuum of the benzenoid compound refers to the aromatic or benzenoid residue of the compound after the removal of the halogen atom or nitro group on the benzenoid nucleus. The polyarylene polyethers of this invention are prepared by methods well known in the art as for instance the substantially equimolar one step reaction of a double alkali metal salt of dihydric phenol with a dihalobenzenoid compound in the presence of specific liquid organic sulfoxide or sulfone solvents under substantially anhydrous conditions. Catalysts are not necessary for this reaction. The polymers may also be prepared in a two step process in which a dihydric phenol is first converted The polymerization reaction proceeds in the liquid phase of a sulfoxide or sulfone organic solvent at elevated temperatures. A preferred form of the polyarylene polyethers of this invention are those prepared using the dihydric polynuclear phenols of the following four types, including the derivatives thereof which are substituted with inert substituent groups in which the R₃ group represents independently hydrogen, lower alkyl, aryl and the halogen substituted groups thereof, which can be the same or different and substituted derivatives thereof. It is also contemplated in this invention to use a mixture of two or more different dihydric phenols to accomplish the same ends as above. Thus when referred to above the E residuum in the polymer structure can actually be the same or different aromatic residue. In order to secure the high polymers, the system should be substantially anhydrous, and preferably with less than 0.5 per cent by weight water in the reaction mixtures. The poly aryl ether s have a reduced viscosity of from about 0.30 to about 1.5 as measured in an appropriate solvent at an appropriate temperature depending on the particular polyether, such as in methylene chloride at 25 C. The preferred poly aryl ether s have repeating units of the formula The styrene polymers suitable for use herein are co or higher polymers and include ABS type polymers, the molecules of which contain two or more polymeric parts of different compositions that are bonded chemically. The polymer is preferably prepared by polmerizing a conjugated diene, such as butadiene or a conjugated diene with a monomer copolymerizable therewith, such as styrene, to provide a polymeric backbone. After formation of the backbone, at least one grafting monomer, and preferably two, are polymerized in the presence of the polymerized backbone to obtain the graft polymer. These resins are prepared by methods well known in the art. The styrene copolymer is preferably a butadiene styrene acrylonitrile resin. The backbone polymer, as mentioned, is preferably a conjugated diene polymer such as polybutadiene, polyisoprene, or a copolymer, such as butadiene styrene, butadiene acrylonitrile, and the like. The specific conjugated diene monomers normally utilized in preparing the backbone of the graft polymer are generically described by the following formula wherein X is selected from hydrogen, alkyl groups containing from one to five carbon atoms, chlorine or bromine. Examples of dienes that may be used are butadiene, isoprene, 1,3 heptadiene, methyl 1,3 pentadiene, 2,3 dimethyl 1,3 butadiene, 2 ethyl 1,3 pentadiene 1,3 and 2,4 hexadienes. A preferred conjugated diene is butadiene. One monomer of group of monomers that may be polymerized in the presence of the prepolymerized backbone are monovinylaromatic hydrocarbons. The monovinylaromatic monomers utilized are generically described by the following formula wherein X is as previously defined. Examples of the monovinylaromatic compounds and alkly ,cycloalkyl , aryl , alkaryl , aralkyl , alkoxy ,aryloxy , and other substituted vinylaromatic compounds include styrene, 3 methylstyrene 3,5 diethylstyrene, 4 n propylstyrene, α methylstyrene, α methyl vinyltoluene, α chlorostyrene, α bromostyrene, dichlorostyrene, dibromostyrene, p tert butylstyrene, tetra chlorostyrene, mixtures thereof, and the like. The preferred monovinylaromatic hydrocarbons used are styrene and or α methylstyrene. A second group of monomers that may be polymerized in the presence of the prepolymerized backbone are acrylic monomers such as acrylonitrile, substituted acrylonitrile and or acrylic acid esters, exemplified by alkyl acrylates such as ethyl acrylate and methyl methacrylate, and maleic anhydride. wherein X is as previously defined and Y is selected from cyano and carbalkoxy wherein the alkoxy group of the carbalkoxy contains from one to about twelve carbon atoms. Examples of such monomers include acrylonitrile, ethacrylonitrile, methacrylonitrile, α chloroacrylonitrile, chloroacrylonitrile, bromoacrylonitrile, and α bromoacrylonitrile, methyl acrylate, methyl methacrylate, ethyl acrylate, butyl acrylate, propyl acrylate, isopropyl acrylate, and mixtures thereof. The preferred acrylic monomer is acrylonitrile and the preferred acrylic acid esters are ethyl acrylate and methyl methacrylate. In the preparation of the graft polymer, the conjugated diolefin polymer or copolymer exemplified by a 1,3 butadiene polymer or copolymer comprises about 50 percent by weight of the total graft polymer composition. The monomers polymerized in the presence of the backbone, exemplified by styrene and acrylonitrile, comprise from about 40 to about 95 percent by weight of the total graft polymer composition. The second group of grafting monomers, exemplified by acrylonitrile, ethyl acrylate or methyl methacrylate, of the graft polymer composition, preferably comprise from about 10 to about 40 by weight of the total graft copolymer composition. The monovinylaromatic hydrocarbons exemplified by styrene comprise from about 30 to about 70 by weight of the total graft polymer composition. In preparing the polymer, it is normal to have a certain percentage of the polymerizing monomers that ore grafted on the backbone combined with each other and occur as free copolymer. If styrene is utilized as one of the grafting monomers and acrylonitrile as the second grafting monomer, a certain portion of the composition will copolymerize as free styrene acrylonitrile copolymer. In the case where α methylstyrene or other monomer is substituted for the styrene in the composition used in preparing the graft polymer, a certain percentage of the composition may be an α methylstyrene acrylonitrile copolymer. Also, there are occasions where a copolymer, such as α methylstyrene acrylonitrile, is added to the graft polymer copolymer blend. When the graft polymer copolymer blend is referred to herein, it is meant optionally to include at least one copolymer blended with the graft polymer composition and which may contain up to 90 of free copolymer. Optionally, the elastomeric backbone may be an acrylate rubber, such as one based on n butyl acrylate, ethylacrylate, 2 ethylhexylacrylate, and the like. Additionally, elastomers such as ethylene propylene diene rubber and isobutylene isoprene copolymers may be used. The acrylate copolymer includes copolymers or higher polymers of methyl methacrylate with a vinyl monomer e.g. acrylonitrile, N ally maleimide, vinyl chloride or N vinyl maleimide , or an alkyl acrylate or methacrylate in which the alkyl group contains from 1 to 8 carbon atoms, such as methyl acrylate, ethyl acrylate, butyl acrylate, ethyl methacrylate and butyl methacrylate. The amount of methyl methacrylate is greater than about 70 percent by weight of this copolymer resin. Methylmethyacrylate may comprise 100 percent of this resin. The alkyl acrylate resin may be grafted onto an unsaturated elastomeric backbone, such as polybutadiene, polyisoprene, and or butadiene or isoprene copolymers. In the case of the graft copolymer, the alkyl acrylate resin comprises greater than about 50 weight percent of the graft copolymers. These resins are well known in the art and are commercially available. The acrylate resins have a reduced viscosity of from 0.1 to about 2.0 dl g in a one percent chloroform solution at 25 C. Also included herein are acrylate styrene acrylonitrile polymers which are known in the art and described, for example, in US A 3,944,631. The acrylate which may be used to prepare the polymer includes the crosslinked polymers of the C₂ C₁₀ alkyl acrylate and the C₈ C₂₂ alkyl methacrylate monomers, preferably the C₄ C₈ alkyl acrylates, such as poly n butyl acrylate , poly ethyl acrylate and poly 2 ethyl hexylacrylate . These polymers are prepared by methods well known in the art such as described in said US A 3,944,631. The thermoplastic polyhydroxyethers which may be used herein have the following general formula In general, thermoplastic polyhydroxyethers are prepared by contacting, under polymerization conditions, a dihydric phenol and an epoxide containing from 1 to 2 epoxide groups in substantially equimolar amounts by methods well known in the art. Any dihydric phenol can be used in forming polyhydroxyethers. Illustrative dihydric phenols are mononuclear dihydric phenols such as hydroquinone, resorcinol, and the like as well as the polynuclear phenols. The dihydric polynuclear phenols have the general formula wherein R₄ is an aromatic divalent hydrocarbon radical, such as naphthylene and phenylene with phenylene being preferred, B and B₁ may be the same or different and are selected from alkyl radicals, such as methyl, n propyl, n butyl, n hexyl, n octyl and the like, preferably alkyl radicals having 1 to 4 carbon atoms halogen atoms, i.e., chlorine, bromine, iodine, or fluorine or alkoxy radicals such as methoxy, methoxymethyl, ethoxy, ethoxyethyl, n butyloxy, amyloxy and the like, preferably an alkoxy radical having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, x and x₁ are independently integers of 0 to 4, R₅ is alkylene, alkylidene, cycloalkylene or a saturated divalent group. Particularly preferred are dihydric polynuclear phenols having the general formula wherein B, B₁, x, and x₁ are as previously defined, and R₆ is an alkylene or alkylidene group, preferably having from 1 to 3 carbon atoms, or cycloalkylene having 6 to 12 carbon atoms. Diepoxides useful for the preparation of polyhydroxyethers may be represented by repeating units of the following formula wherein R₇ is representative of a bond between adjacent carbon atoms or a divalent organic radical such as an aliphatic, aromatic, cyclic, heterocyclic or acylic arrangement of atoms. Other diepoxides which can be mentioned include those wherein two oxirane groups are linked through an aromatic ether, i.e., compounds having the grouping wherein R₈ is a divalent organic radical, W is a divalent aromatic radical residuum of a dihydric phenol, such as those listed above in the description of dihydric phenols, and d is an integer from 0 to 1 inclusive. Still other diepoxides include ethers wherein the oxirane groups are connected to vicinal carbon atoms at least one pair of which is a part of a cycloaliphatic hydrocarbon. These polyhydroxy ethers are prepared by methods well known in the art, such as those described in, for example, US A 3,238,087 3,305,528 3,294,747 and 3,277,051. The poly aryl ether in the composition of this invention is used in amounts of from 20 to 85, preferably from about 30 to about 75 weight percent the styrene and or acrylic copolymer in amounts of from 80 to 15, preferably from about 70 to about 25 weight percent, and the polyhydroxyether in amounts of from 0.5 to 20, preferably from about 1 to about 10 weight percent. It should, of course, be obvious to those skilled in the art that other additives may be included in the present compositions. These additives include plasticizers, pigments, thermal stabilizers, ultraviolet light stabilizers, flame retardants, processing aids, impact modifiers and the like. The impact modifiers which are particularly suitable for use herein are described in US A 4,231,922. These impact modifiers are a graft copolymer of a vinyl aromatic compound, an acrylate, an unsaturated nitrile, or mixtures thereof, grafted onto an unsaturated elastomeric backbone and having a tensile modulus as measured by ASTM D 638, except that the test piece is compression molded to a 0.51mm 20 mil thickness of less than 690MPa 100,000 psi , and preferably from about 103MPa 15,000 psi to less than about 690MPa 100,000 psi . The unsaturated elastomeric backbone may be polybutadiene, poly butadiene co styrene , poly butadiene co acrylonitrile , or poly isoprene . In each of the polymers there is sufficient butadiene to give the polymer a rubbery character. The constituents which are grafted onto the unsaturated elastomeric backbone are selected from a vinyl aromatic compound, such as styrene, α methylstyrene, alkylstyrene or mixtures thereof an acrylate such as the acrylic ester monomers, such as methyl acrylate, ethyl acrylate, butyl acrylate, methyl methacrylate, or mixtures thereof an unsaturated nitrile such as acrylonitrile, methacrylonitrile, or mixtures thereof. It will be understood that the vinyl aromatic compound, acrylate and acrylonitrile may be used individually or in any combinations in grafting onto the unsaturated elastomeric backbone. These impact modifiers are free flowing powders and are commonly available as impact modifiers for poly vinyl chloride as described in, for example, V. Shakaypal, in Developments in PVC Technology , edited by J.H.L. Hensen and A. Whelan, Applied Science Publishers Ltd., New York, 1973. The grafted constituents of the impact modifier comprise from about 20 to about 60 percent by weight of said constituents such that their tensile modulus does not exceed about 690MPa 100,000 psi , and is preferably, between about 103MPa 15,000 psi to less than about 690MPa 100,000 psi . The compositions for the articles of this invention are prepared by conventional mixing methods. For example, a preferred method comprises mixing the poly aryl ether , the styrene and or acrylic copolymer, and a poly hydroxyether and other optional ingredients in powder or granular form in an extruder and extruding the mixture into strands, chopping the strands into pellets and molding the pellets into the desired article. The compositions for the articles of this invention may include mineral fillers, reinforcing agents such as fiberglass, carbon fibers, and the like. The composition may also include thermal stabilizers, ultraviolet light stabilizers, plasticizers, and the like. The composition described above can be molded into a variety of end articles using conventional molding procedures. The composition may be extruded into sheet, pipe and profiles. Specifically, the composition may be molded into plumbingware, appliances, and the like. The preferred articles are plumbingware such as pipes. The articles may be plated with copper, nickel, chromium, brass, etc., according to the procedure described below. The following Examples serve to give specific illustrations of the practice of this invention but they are not intended in any way to limit the scope of this invention. The composition for the articles of this invention was molded into test plaques on a recriprocating screw injection molding machine with a 2 1 compression ratio screw with a back pressure of 0.2 2.4 MPa 30 350 psi . The stock temperature was 260 315 C and the mold temperature was 120 C. The plaque was then subjected to the following steps hydrolyzer, conditioner, etch, neutralizer, accelerator and copper depositing. Specifically the steps are the following To make up a 380 liter 100 gallon hydrolyzer bath, 19 liters 5 gallons of PM 930 , 204kg 450 pounds of chromic acid CrO₃ , 38 liters 10 gallons of concentrated sulfuric acid H₂SO₄ 66 Baume, and 285 liters 75 gallons of water are used as follows After the bath temperature has been adjusted between 60 and 64 C 140 and 147 F , the hydrolyzer bath is ready for use. It prepares the plaque for metal to plastic bonding. A 380 liter 100 gallon PM 920 bath is made up using 65 liters 17 gallons of PM 920 concentrate and 315 liters 83 gallons deionized water as follows After the bath temperature has been adjusted between 32 and 38 C 90 and 100 F , the conditioner bath is ready for use. A 380 liter 100 gallon PM 930 bath is made from 95 liters 25 gallons of PM 930 concentrate, 385 kg 850 pounds of chromic acid CrO₃ and deionized water as follows Once the chromic acid concentration has been adjusted, the bath is ready for use. A 380 liter 100 gallon PM 950 bath is made up using 15 liters 4 gallons of PM 950 concentrate, approximately 1.9 liters 1 2 gallon 50 sodium hydroxid and 361 liters 95 gallons deionized water as follows After the bath temperature has been adjusted between 38 and 49 C 100 and 120 F , the neutralizer bath is ready for use. A 380 liter 100 gallon PM 960 bath is made up using 38 liters 10 gallons of PM 960 Concentrate and 342 liters 90 gallons of deionized as follows After the bath temperature has been adjusted, within prescribed operating limits, the accelerator bath is ready for use. A 380 liter 100 gallon PM 990 bath is made up using 32 liters 8.5 gallons each of PM 990A , PM 990B , and PM 990M and 283 liters 74.5 gallons of deionized water as follows After the bath temperature has been adjusted between 24 and 29 C 75 and 85 F , the Electroless Copper bath is ready for use. The plaques were plated by exposing them to the solutions in Steps I to VI under the conditions specified in the Table. The adhesion of the metal was then tested. The adhesion values are shown for 0.1mm 4 mils of acid copper. The test pieces were baked for 2 hours at 85 C 185 F followed by 2 hours at 107 C 225 F before adhesion testing. The results are shown in the table.