# Hierarchical selection

## Claims
Verfahren für die Auswahl eines aus einer Vielzahl von Teilen eines auf einem Bildschirm angezeigten Gegenstandes, wobei die Teile in einer abgespeicherten geordneten Relation zueinander stehen, die mit einer Reihenfolge übereinstimmt, in der die Teile erzeugt wurden, wobei das Verfahren die folgenden Schritte umfaßt

## Description
This invention relates generally to object selection, and more specifically to selection based on relationships of objects. During a screen building operation, there is to some degree a logically ordered relationship between the various portions of the screen. For example, in the building of a cross section of a motor, the shaft is normally drawn or created first, then a rotor is connected to the shaft, next a stator is drawn, and then a shell or housing is drawn. Upon completion, there is a composite which can be stored for recall, modification, etc. However, from one end of the prior art spectrum, recall is only of the composite. As such, a change in the rotor alone is not easily accomplished. From the other end of the spectrum, each portion is a separate object and there is in effect an overlaying of screens to obtain an apparent composite. Here though, selection of an actual composite is time consuming and tedious in that the objects must first be tied together. Once the objects have been tied together to obtain an actual composite, separation for individual recall is again time consuming. Document Proc. 17th Design Automation Conference, Mineapolis, June 1980, pages 430 439, ACM P. CARMODY et al An interactive graphics system for custom design discloses a method of selecting one among a plurality of shapes composing an object displayed on a screen of a computer system. In this system, different levels of an LSI chip and card design can be light pen selected from the names of the levels which are displayed on a level selection frame. This system does not suggest any ordering defined between shapes on the same level. In view of the above, there has been no efficient manner of 1 building and tying together each of the portions on the same screen while maintaining each portion s individual status, and 2 permitting each portion and a composite of the portions to be recalled separately in the order built. Viewing the prior art in greater detail, current state of the art computer workstations allow the use of locator driven pointers which operators or users use to point at and select displayed objects. Often times the object is a complex structure consisting of multiple sub objects or sub parts and it is not clear whether the user is trying to select the whole object or one of the sub objects. For example, an automobile wheel may be composed of a hub cap, wheel rim, and tire. In order to select the entire wheel, the user must position the pointer somewhere on the wheel, but then there is ambiguity as whether the user wants the entire wheel or just the wheel component or sub part on which the pointer is positioned. Current solutions to the ambiguity problem typically require that the user explicitly group and ungroup the objects sub objects as appropriate for the desired selection. For example, if the wheel were originally created as three separate objects and the user desired to select the entire wheel, the user would have to request a group action, and identify each of the sub parts. Selection on any part would then result in selection of the whole. If the user then wanted to select an individual part, ungrouping of the wheel would be required to break the wheel back down into its constituent parts. Based on the above, the problems with the prior art are With the invention of this application Also in the prior art are function hierarchies such as the hierarchial cancel function on the IBM Displaywriter System. Here though, this linked menu driven system does not permit unrestricted calling of an individual menu, and restoring and cancelling functions at will. From the above, the prior art is pertinent primarily in a background sense, and as such, falls short of either anticipating the instant invention, or rendering the instant invention obvious. The advances presented by the instant invention are that 1 during a screen building operation, each portion of the screen can be treated both as an individual portion and as a part of the entire screen, and 2 each portion can be called individually through depression of a single button. The advantages of those advances are improved ease of use, user friendliness, and flexibility. These advantages are brought by the method of selection which is defined in claim 1. A unique method of, and system for, building a screen are provided in order to facilitate selecting related portions of a screen for editing, review, etc. During a screen building operation, each portion which is to be unique is identified. A later recall of the screen and selection thereof or a portion thereof will result in a display of the selected portion or screen. For selecting portions related to the screen or a selected portion, only a single button depression is required. Fig 1 represents a completed wheel screen made up of a plurality of portions. Fig 2 represents a hub portion of the screen of Fig 1. Fig 3 represents a spoke portion of the screen of Fig 1. Fig 4 represents a rim portion of the screen of Fig 1. Fig 5 represents a tire portion of the screen of Fig 1. Fig 6 is a flow chart illustrating operator and system operations in building the screen of Fig 1 and later selection of the wheel of Fig 1 and the portions of Figs 2 5. To begin with, a screen is to be taken as information displayed at any particular time. This information can be stored in a bulk store or main memory and recalled. A screen will be displayed on the face of a cathode ray tube CRT included in a device controlled display standalone or host connected computer system. Included in the system will be a main memory. The information displayed on the face of the CRT can be text, tables, graphics, etc. or any combination thereof. Device control of the system can be by keyboard, mouse, joy stick, light pen, etc., or any combination of these devices. For purposes of clarity of explanation, it will be assumed that operation is in a draw graphics mode and that being built is a wheel screen which includes a wheel made up of hub, spoke, rim and tire portions. Throughout, reference will be made to sub objects, parts and portions. These terms are to be taken as equivalent. Also, in the following the wheel as a whole will be an object. Further, the screen, wheel and object are to be taken as synonymous. Yet further, for purposes of this application, a user and an operator are to be taken as one and the same. The devices used to draw, and later select portions of, the wheel are a mouse and keyboard. With the instant invention, the initial chore is to build the wheel screen in such a manner that each portion of the screen can be retrieved for review and editing. The ability to retrieve each individual portion is extremely useful from manufacturing assembly and design standpoints. For example, the spokes alone can be selected and changed. Then the connecting related or adjacent portions can be selected and changed if need be. This is far more efficient and manageable than attempting to work on the spokes with the entire wheel displayed. Two presentation embodiments are presented below. One is separate screen for a selected portion and the other is highlighting of a selected portion on the same screen. Highlighting can be by video reversing, color changing, etc. It should be appreciated that display of a selected portion as a separate screen is a form of highlighting. For a more detailed understanding of the invention, reference is first made to Fig 1. In this figure is depicted a wheel generally denoted by reference numeral 1. It is to be assumed that wheel 1 is being displayed on the face of a CRT. As such, a wheel screen is depicted. Wheel 1 is made up of hub 2, spokes 3, rim 4, and tire 5. Also shown in Fig 1 is a pointing cursor 6 which is controlled by a mouse included in the system. During the building of wheel 1, generally hub 2 will be drawn or built first, followed by spokes 3, rim 4 and tire 5. The building of hub 2 can be by calling a circle from a symbol table, sizing the circle, and then calling for a center fill. Of course, the circle could have been free handed. Upon completion of building hub 2, it is to be defined as a separate object, sub object, entity, or portion. This can be by depressing a function key on a keyboard included in the system. The system has been structured to accept the function key as a defining key. For purposes of this invention, the system includes application programs for performing the system operations described. With hub 2 built, the next operation is to build spokes 3. As with hub 2, this can be by calling a spoke pattern from a symbol table, creating each individual spoke as a line, etc. With spokes 3 built, a function key is depressed for defining the spokes as a separate portion of wheel 1. Next, rim 4 is to be built. Rim 4 can be built by calling circles from a symbol table, sizing the circles, and calling for a center fill. Once built, rim 4 can be defined as a separate portion of wheel 1. Tire 5 can be built by calling a circle, sizing the circle, and then calling for a center fill. Thereafter, a function key is depressed for defining tire 5 as a separate portion of wheel 1. With wheel 1 built, it can be stored for later recall. If the configuration of rim 4 is to be changed, whether following building or upon recall of wheel 1, a pointing cursor 6 is fetched and positioned, through mouse positioning, coincident with rim 4. Thereafter, a select button on the mouse is depressed. This will result in rim 4 being displayed as a separate screen as depicted in Fig 4. When displayed as shown in Fig 4, its configuration can be changed or left in tact. Of course, rather than displaying rim 4 or any other portion of wheel 1 on a separate screen, rim 4 could be highlighted in terms of video reversing and displayed with the remainder of wheel 1. If tire 5 is then to be viewed, the only operator action necessary is depression of the select button on the mouse. Depression of the select button will result in selection and separate display of tire 5 as shown in Fig 5. There is no need to fetch a pointing cursor and then position the cursor. This is because of the hierarchy or order established in building the wheel. That is, the order in which the various portions of wheel 1 were built and defined were stored during building. This order is then used to control subsequent selection. The extent of selection is based on the definition of the portion at the time the portion was built. For example, the portion made up of the spokes 3 includes all of spokes 3. After tire 5 has been selected and displayed as the separate screen of Fig 5, depression of the select button will result in selection and separate display of the entire wheel shown in Fig 1. This is because the order of building the wheel was defined upon completion. The order is stored in a ring which is cycled through upon depression of the select button. Thereafter, if the select button is again depressed, hub 2 will be displayed as a separate screen as shown in Fig 2. If the mouse select button is again depressed, the adjacent or related portion made up of spokes 3 will be displayed as a separate screen as shown in Fig 3. In like manner, depressing the mouse select button again will result in selection and separate display of the adjacent portion made up of rim 4 as shown in Fig 4. It is to be appreciated that a key on the keyboard could be dedicated to reversing the selection order. This would save time and effort in going from spokes 3 to hub 2. Reference is next made to the flow chart of Fig 6 which illustrates operator, or user, and system operations for building and selecting portions of a screen. When the user points to any portion of the object and presses a select button as indicated by block 20, the system determines, as indicated by block 21, which sub object the pointer is actually on or coincident with and highlights that sub object as indicated by block 22. If the user presses the select button again, as indicated by block 23, the currently selected sub object is dehighlighted, as indicated by block 24, and the next sub object in the hierarchy of sub objects is highlighted as indicated by block 25. If the user presses the select button while the last sub object is highlighted, as determined by block 26, the entire object made up of all sub objects will be highlighted as indicated by block 27. If the user again presses the select button, the rocess is repeated beginning with the first sub object. Set out below is an illustration of a routine or application program useable by a processor included in the system. Also illustrated are operator building and defining of a screen made up of various portions and the system storing of the order in which the various portions are built and defined. This routine allows the operator to select the portions in order upon single button depression following selection of a first one of the portions. This application is in program design language from which source and machine code are derivable. Further, this routine is for highlighting the portions upon selection as opposed to causing a separate display. A graphical object wheel is defined by its constituent parts, hub , spokes , rim , and tire . Each is a subobject of the object wheel WHEEL COMPOSED OF . The wheel is then presented to the user DISPLAY WHEEL . When the user positions a pointer 6 in Fig. 1 on any part of the object such as the tire 5 in Fig 1 and presses a select button, the object s structure is determined CALL OBJECT X,Y . The selected subobject is highlighted through video reversing, displaying in a different color, etc. to indicate that it has been selected CALL HIGHLIGHT . If the user presses the select button again, the next subobject within the object s structure is selected, the current subobject is un highlighted and the new subobject is highlighted ON SELECTION thru CALL HIGHLIGHT . After the last built subobject tire has been selected, another select button press causes the entire object wheel to be selected and highlighted IF N LAST N then N 1 . The user may continue to cycle through the object s structure until the desired subobject is selected at which time the End key is pressed to finish the selection. The user may now perform some action on the selected object subobject. From the above, the user can determine the structure of an object by simply inspecting it with this selection technique. The object may be one which was created by someone else and with which the user was not familiar. The user can cycle through the object s substructure as many times as desired, viewing the subobjects one at a time before making a decision as to which one to select. Also, the user is not required to perform tedious group and ungroup commands and avoids the limiting modes which result. In summary, a unique method of, and system for, building a screen are provided in order to facilitate selecting related portions of a screen for editing, review, etc. During a screen building operation, each portion which is to be unique is identified. A later recall of the screen and selection of a portion will result in a separate display or highlighting of the selected portion. For selecting portions related to the selected portion, only a single button depression for each portion is required.