# METHOD FOR ANALYZING IMPURITIES IN LIQUID AND APPARATUS THEREFOR

## Claims
Verfahren zum Analysieren von Verunreinigungen in Flüssigkeiten, mit den Schritten

## Description
This invention relates to a method and an apparatus for analyzing impurities in liquid in accordance with claims 1 and 6, respectively. A method and an apparatus of this kind are known from Patent Abstracts of Japan, Vol. 8, No. 269 page 319 1706 , 8 Dec. 1984 and JP A 59 136 638. It is known that the photoacoustic spectroscopy is useful for a highly sensitive spectroscopic analyzing method, when it is applied to liquid samples and used as a colorimetric analyzing apparatus. Shohei Oda, Tsuguo Sawada and Hitoshi Kamada have reported in an article entitled Determination of Ultra Trace Cadmium by Laser Induced Photoacoustic Absorption Spectrometry , Analytical Chemistry, Vol. 52, p. 650 1980 , that cadmium can be analyzed down to 12 ppt in the form of a complex salt with dithizone by means of a photoacoustic analyzing apparatus. Further, Shohei Oda, Tsuguo Sawada, Toyohiko Moriguchi and Hitoshi Kamada have reported that when the photoacoustic analyzing method is applied to suspension of barium sulfate its detection limit is 30 ppb in an article entitled Analysis of Turbid Solution by Laser Induced Photoacoustic Spectroscopy , Analytical Chemistry, Vol. 52, p. 650 1980 . It has been shown in this example that the calibration curve of the suspension doesn t depend on the diameter of particles, when light modulation frequency is set at 33 Hz. That is, it has been clarified that the photo acoustic analyzing method has a characteristic that it is not influenced by the diameter of suspended particles. However, on the other hand, it has been verified by Kitamori, et al. that the phase of photo acoustic signal relative to that of the light modulation frequency in the following abbreviated as the phase of the photo acoustic signal depends on the diameter of suspended particles and and that the diameter and the concentration of suspended particles can be measured by the photoacoustic analyzing method. In this way, it has been verified that the photoacoustic analyzing method can be applied to highly sensitive analyzing and is useful not only for analysis of true solutions but also for that of suspensions. However, no technique has been known, which is adapted to measure separately not only insoluble impurities but also soluble ones impurities in the form of ions in liquid, utilizing such characteristics as described above of the photoacoustic analyzing method. This is because theoretical relations between measurement conditions such as the light modulation frequency for the photoacoustic analyzing apparatus and information obtained under those conditions are not known. Furthermore, the amount of impurities contained in ultra pure water is in the order of ppt s and this concentration level is below the lower detection limit of the conventional analyzing method such as chromatography, colorimetry, etc. Consequently, it is difficult to apply the prior art analyzing methods to analysis of impurities in ultra pure water. The above mentioned prior art document, Patent Abstracts of Japan, Vol. 8, No. 269, page 319 1706 , 8 Dec. 1984 and JP A 59 136 638 discloses a measuring method for the grain size distribution. Photo acoustic signals obtained by irradiating impurities in a liquid sample with intensity modulated light which is able to excite the impurities are measured as follows Therefore, the grain size distribution can be measured while the intensity modulated frequency is equal to the oscillation frequency or near thereof. However, the mentioned prior art document deals only with measuring insoluble impurity concentration profiles particles suspended in a liquid . As stated above, none of the conventional impurity analyzing methods achieves the classification of impurities which are contained in a liquid into insoluble substance, soluble substance, and further impurities in the form of bubbles. The object of this invention is to provide a method for analyzing impurities in liquid and an apparatus therefor, which are adapted to classify impurities in liquid to be measured into at least soluble and insoluble impurities. As a refinement the method and the apparatus should be able to further classify impurities in the form of bubbles, and to measure their concentration separately. The above object is solved by the features set out in claim 1 method and 6 apparatus , respectively. The dependent claims 2 to 5 characterize advantageous developments of the method according to claim 1, while the dependent claims 7 to 21 each characterize an advantageous development of the apparatus according to claim 6. In the following, explanation will be made of the construction of the apparatus for classifying the kinds of impurities in liquid into soluble and insoluble ones and, according to a preferred embodiment, also in the form of bubbles by referring to Fig. 1 and Table 1. The principle of this invention is based on the fact that the relation between the light modulation frequency and the phase of the photoacoustic signals varies depending on the property of impurities, as indicated in Table 1. Hereinbelow, the principle on the basis of which the relation between the measurement conditions and information, as indicated in Table 1, can be obtained will be explained, according to the theory of the inventors of this invention on generation, propagation and detection of photoacoustic signals. Impurities absorbing periodically intensity modulated light produce periodically heat by nonradiative processes. This heat induces periodical thermal expansion of the medium and as the result generates acoustic waves. The generated acoustic waves, i.e. photoacoustic signals are represented by P where C is the sound velocity, β is the thermal expansion coefficient of the medium, C is a differential operator with respect to the vector where F is a Fourier transformation operator In the case where the impurities are soluble, since the solution is a true solution, the spatial distribution of H where α is an absorption coefficient of the solution I₀ is the intensity of the projected light R Next, in the case where the impurities are insoluble, a representation for the photoacoustic signals can be deduced as follows. As indicated in Fig. 2, an impurity particle 41 absorbs light 42 and releases heat produced by a radiationless transition in the form of a thermal flux 43 in the medium. Representing this thermal flux by J, J is given by the following equation, which is produced according to a temperature field T ρ, t formed around the impurity particle where ρ indicates a vector representing the position of the impurity particle in the coordinate system λ is the heat conduction coefficient of the medium and where K is the heat diffusion coefficient where N is the density in number of the impurity particles and it is related to the impurity concentration C by the following equation where σ indicates the density and V represents the volume of the impurity particles. Substituting where When the modulation function M t is a sinusoidal function having an angular frequency ω₀, since Eqs. 4 and 11 can be transformed into the following equations where where Consequently, By using Eqs. 12 to 22 , the conditions for the classification of the impurities and the measurement of their concentrations, as indicated in Table 1, can be obtained. At first, in the case where the light modulation angular frequency ω₀ sufficiently satisfies it can be seen from Eq. 18 that the intensity of the photoacoustic signal is independent of the size of the impurity particles. Furthermore, in this case, from Eq. 22 and In addition, for the conditions given by Eqs. 23 and 24 the following relationship is valid In the case where the impurities are in the form of bubbles, the projected light is refracted by bubbles, changes its path and can enter directly the detector. In this case, the incident light produces photoacoustic signals of the detector itself. However, since the light velocity is much greater than the sound velocity, the phase of the photoacoustic signal is zero. Consequently, it is possible to measure bubbles, distinguishing them from soluble and insoluble impurities. Hereinbelow the embodiments of this invention will be explained, referring to the drawings. Fig. 1 is a block diagram showing the basic structure of this invention. Light emitted by a light source enters a light modulator 5, in which the incident light is transformed into intensity modulated light, whose intensity varies with a constant frequency, and a cell 2 containing a liquid sample to be measured is irradiated with this intensity modulated light. The reference numeral 1 represents a phase detection device having functions to receive photoacoustic signals obtained at the cell 2 and measure the phase and the intensity of the photoacoustic signal or to take out only the photoacoustic signal which has a given phase from the received signal and measure its intensity. The reference numeral 4 indicates a control device, which sets the light modulation frequency in the light modulator 5 and also the phase in the phase detection device 1. The reference numeral 7 represents a calculating device, which classifies impurities contained in the liquid sample, calculates their amount concentration , and displays results, if necessary, on the basis of information obtained by the phase detection device 1. Fig. 3 shows the first embodiment of an apparatus for analyzing impurities in liquid, in which the light modulation frequency can be set at any desired value and a lock in amplifier is used as the phase detection device 1 for detecting the phase of the photoacoustic signals, the phase and the sensitivity of the lock in amplifier 1 also being settable at any desired values. The light modulation frequency as well as the phase and the sensitivity of the lock in amplifier are controlled by the control device coupled with a calculator on the basis of Table 1. In this embodiment a sample such as ultra pure water, etc. is prepared and filled in a sealed type cell 2 and the photoacoustic signal derived from the sample is measured. In this apparatus an Ar laser device is used as the light source 3 and a light beam of 2.6 W having an oscillation line of 488 nm is utilized as exciting light. In this apparatus, the light modulation frequency is set at 80 Hz for low frequency modulation and at 410 kHz for high frequency modulation. These light modulation frequencies sufficiently satisfy Eqs. 23 and 24 , respectively, for particles of silicon dioxide having a radius of 1 µm in water. Once the low frequency modulation is selected, the phase of the lock in amplifier 1 is set automatically at a value as mentioned before by the controller control device 4 and measures only the intensity of the photoacoustic signal. In this way, the total amount of impurities concentration in the sample can be obtained. In this case, the lower detection limit of the light absorption coefficient is about 10 ⁸ cm. Further, when the impurities are silicon dioxide particles, they can be measured down to about 20 ppt. When the measurement of the total amount of impurities is terminated, the light modulation frequency is set automatically at the high frequency side and the lock in amplifier acts as a phase detector. In this case, for a particle radius of 1 µm the phase is 45 degrees and the smallest measurable value of the phase detector of 0.5 degree corresponds to a particle radius of about 0.1 µm. In addition, in the embodiment shown in Fig. 3, the reference numeral 5 is the photoacoustic modulator transforming light coming from the Ar laser 3 into modulated light 6 is the oscillator feeding the lock in amplifier 1 and the photoacoustic modulator 5 with signals and 7 represents the calculator calculating device . Further, since a photoacoustic modulator 5 is used as the light modulator 5, an oscillator 6 is disposed, which drives the modulator. Next, the second embodiment of the apparatus according to this invention will be explained, referring to Fig. 4. In this embodiment, flow type cells are used and 2 sets of light modulators M₁, M₂, cells 2a, 2b combining the same sample and lock in amplifiers 1a, 1b are disposed. These 2 sets are adjusted for different measurement conditions. The light source 3 is an Ar laser device having an output 20 W. The light modulator M₁ is set at 80 Hz and M₂ at 410 kHz. The setting value of these light modulation frequencies can be varied by the control device 4. The lock in amplifier 1a measures the intensity S₁ and 1b measures variations in phase In this case, for the soluble impurities, calculations were effected, assuming that the molecular light absorption coefficient is 10 mol. cm ² . Furthermore, it can be seen that at E and F bubbles are detected. Fig. 6 shows the third embodiment of this invention, in which the method according to this invention is applied to an ultra pure water production apparatus. In the figure, the reference numeral 10 indicates a raw water supply line for feeding a distillation tower 11 with raw water such as city water 12 is an activated charcoal filter tower for eliminating organic impurities 13 is an inverse osmotic membrane module for eliminating particles, electrolyte, etc. 14 is an intermediate tank 15 is an ion exchange resine tower for eliminating electrolyte, etc. 16 is a pure water tank for storing produced pure water specific resistance greater than 1 10 MΩcm 17 is an ultra violet ray sterilizer for sterilizing bacteria 18 is a polisher for eliminating electrolyte and 19 is an ultra filtration membrane module for eliminating fine particles. This ultra filtration membrane module 19 feeds a 5 way valve 20 with ultra pure water, whose specific resistance is greater than 17 18 MΩcm and in which the number of fine particles larger than 0.1 0.2 µm is smaller than 50 cc and that of living bacteria is smaller than 0.1 cc. Further, in the figure, 21 to 24 represent water sending pumps or pressuring pumps. Produced ultra pure water is supplied successively from the 5 way valve 20 to the cells 2a, 2b and 2c of the apparatus 25 for analyzing impurities. 3a indicates a light source utilizing a high energy CO₂ laser 9a is a beam splitter 9c is a half mirror 9b is a mirror M₁, M₂ and M₃ are light modulators 1a, 1b and 1c are lock in amplifiers 4 is a controlling device controlling the light modulators M₁ to M₃ and the lock in amplifiers 1a to 1c and 7 is a calculating device for classifying impurities into various sorts and calculating their concentration on the basis of information coming from the lock in amplifiers 1a to 1b. This calculating device 7 is provided also with the function to control a valve 10a mounted on the raw water supply line 10, the 5 way valve 20 and another valve 27, depending on analysis results of the produced ultra pure water. The light modulation frequency ω₁ of the light modulator M₁ is set at 33 Hz and the light frequencies ω₂ and ω₃ of the light modulators M₂ and M₃, respectively, are set at 4 MHz. The phase of the lock in amplifiers 1a and 1b is set at For the above described conditions it is assumed that purification is repeated, if the amount of soluble impurities is greater than about 1 ppb and if the amount of insoluble impurities is greater than 10 ppt and at the same time their particle radius is greater than 0.3 µm. Further, when the phase of the lock in amplifier 1c is 0, since bubbles are mixed in the ultra pure water, the valve 27 is commuted to the side of a degassing device 28 and after having degassed the ultra pure water, it is supplied to a use point for example for semi conductor production. Furthermore, although all the produced ultra pure water passes through the apparatus for analyzing impurities 25 in this embodiment, in the case where the capacity of the pure water production apparatus is large, the analyzing apparatus 25 can be also so constructed that only a part of the produced ultra pure water is bypassed therethrough. Fig. 7 shows the fourth embodiment of this invention, in which an apparatus for analyzing impurities according to this invention is applied to industrial waste water. In the figure, the reference numerals, which are used also in Fig. 4 or Fig. 6, represent identical or corresponding parts. The reference numeral 29 indicates a waste water ejecting line 30 is a waste water treatment installation 31 is a storing reservoir and 32 is a sampling device. Samples taken in this sampling device 32 are supplied successively to the cells 2a, 2b and 2c of the apparatus for analyzing impurities. In this embodiment an Ar laser device of 5 W is used as the light source 3. The other conditions are identical to those described for the embodiment illustrated in Fig. 6. The photoacoustic signals PA signals coming from the cells 2a to 2c are inputted to the lock in amplifiers 1a to 1c, respectively, and the intensities S₁ to S₃ of the photoacoustic signals from the lock in amplifiers 1a to 1c as well as the phase Fig. 8 shows a result obtained by analyzing industrial waste water by means of the apparatus indicated in Fig. 7. As indicated above, the apparatus for analyzing impurities according to this invention can be applied to the case where samples to be analyzed are turbid and suspended. According to the embodiments described above of this invention the following effects can be obtained. As explained above, according to this invention, since impurities in liquid are analyzed on the basis of information on the modulation frequency of intensity modulated light, with which liquid samples are irradiated, the relationship between the phase of the intensity modulated light and that of the photoacoustic signal, and the intensity of the photoacoustic signal, it is possible to classify impurities in liquid into soluble and insoluble ones and those in the form of bubbles and also to measure their concentration separately.