# Antimicrobial water soluble compound which contains a rare earth metal cation, its application in oral compositions and method for controlling microorganisms therewith.

## Abstract
Antimicrobial compounds and compositions comprise water soluble metallo surfactants of the formula RX

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A water soluble compound of the formula n wherein M is a rare earth metal cation i X is a sulfate or sulfonate moiety n is an integer which is 3 or 4, corresponding to the valence state of the rare earth metal and R is selected from hydrocarbyl groups containing from 8 to 18 carbon atoms, hydrocarbyl aryl groups wherein the hydrocarbyl portion contains from 8 to 14 carbon atoms provided that when said hydrocarbyl portion contains 12 or more carbon atoms the aryl portion is affixed to a carbon atom other than the terminal one of said C12 or longer hydrocarbyl portion, substituted hydrocarbyl groups wherein the hydrocarbyl portion contains from 6 to 18 carbon atoms5 and hydrocarbyl ammonium, phosphonium or sulphonium groups wherein the hydrocarbyl portion is in the C16 range. 2. A compound according to Claim 1 wherein R is selected from C8 C14 alkyl, oleyl and C8 C14 alkyl benzene. 3. A compound according to Claim 2 wherein R is 4 1 methylnonyl benzene. 4. A compound according to Claim 1 wherein R is selected from C8 C14 alkyl glycerol, C8 C14 alkyl glyceryl ether and C8 to C14 alkyl succinate 5. A compound according to Claim 1 wherein R is alkyl or alkyl phenyl ethoxylate, wherein the alkyl substituent contains from 8 to 18 carbon atoms and wherein the degree of ethoxylation is from 3 to 30. 6. A compound according to Claim 1 wherein R is a dimethyl C8 C16 alkyl ammonio alkanate, wherein the alkanate substituent is C3 to C5 alkylene. 7. A compound according to any one of Claims 1 6 wherein M is selected from lanthanum, cerium, praseodymium, neodymium, terbium and ytterbium. 8. An oral composition, comprising a a safe and antimicrobially effectiye amount of the composition of any one of Claims 1 7 as an antimicrobial agent and b an orally acceptable carrier 9. A composition according to Claim 8 having a pH within the range of from 4.5 to 8, 10. A method for controlling microorganisms, comprising contacting said microorganisms with an effective amount of a compound or composition according to any one ofClaims 1 9.

## Description
ANTINICROBIAL COMPOSITIONS The desirability of controlling or eradicating common disease causing microorganisms on, e.g., the bodies of humans and lower animals, on textiles, hard surfaces, etc., is clearly accepted. For use on humans and other animals in particular, it is highly desirable to provide compositions for controlling said microorganisms without harming the host. When the microorganisms are bacteria, it is usually desirable to use antimicrobial agents that are capable of killing or controlling both Gram positive and Gram negative species. It has now been discovered that rare earth metals can be used in synergistic combination with certain surfactants to provide excellent antimicrobial agents. A wide variety of cationic and halogenated antimicrobial agents are known in the art. However, the antimicrobial agents of the present invention offer several advantages over the art disclosed antimicrobials. The agents herein are less toxic, orally, than the common cationic surfactant type antimicrobials, and are less persistent in the environment than halogenated antimicrobials. In contrast with many art disclosed antimicrobials, microorganisms do not appear to form mutant strains which are resistant to the agents of this invention. Also in contrast with many art disclosed antimicrobials, the agents herein can be used at low concentrations to control both Gram positive and Gram negative bacteria. The agents herein are acceptably mild even when relatively high concentrations are used in contact with skin.Moreover, the agents of this invention kill bacteria with only minimal contact time. Accordingly, the antimicrobial agents herein are especially useful in hard surface cleaners, cosmetics and oral compositions such as dentifrices and mouthwashes. Background Art Belgian Patent 856,751 discloses cerium salts of sulfadiazine, especially cerous sulfadiazine, for treating burns. These salts are obtained from reacting watersoluble salts of cerium, say, cerium chloride or cerium nitrate, with an aqueous solution of sulfadiazine, say sodium sulfadiazine alkali metal salt of sulfadiazine .The cerium salt of sulfadiazine is said to display antibacterial activity at low concentrations of 0.05 micromole ml. A. Yu Zimakov, et al., RARE EARTH ELEMENTS INMEDICINE Kazanskii Meditsinskii Zhurnal, 57 3 268 271 1976 . This paper relates generally to the antibacterial activity of rare earth metals. More specifically, the article discusses the antibacterial activity of inorganic salts of rare earth metals, e.g., cerium nitrate at 1000 ppm inhibits Staphylococcus and molds.Reference was made to the therapeutic benefits of sulfates of neodymium, praseodymium, samarium and acetates of lanthanum in the treatment of tuberculosis. Sudie Burkes, et al., THE BACTERIOSTATIC ACTIVITYOF CERIUM, LANTHANUM, AND THALLIUM, Journal ofBacteriology 54 417 24 1947 . This article reports the bacteriostatic properties of the captioned rare earth metals at concentrations which are said to be significantly low, ranging from 0.0006 to 0.0012 N. Inorganic salts of the captioned rare earth metals were at these concentrations and were found to have bacteriostatic properties. Charles Levinson, et al., LANTHANUM INDUCEDALTERATION IN CELLULAR ELECTROLYTES AND MEMBRANE POTENTIALIN EHRLICH ASCITES TUMOR CELLS, Journal of CellularPhysiology 79 299 308 1971 . The effect of lanthanum at varying concentrations from 0.01 to 2.0 mM on membrane potential and electrolyte composition of Ehrlich ascites tumor cells was investigated. La 3 concentrations less than 0.02 mM had no effect. At 1.0 mM the effect was maximal and resulted in an 87 reduction in cellular potassium, 79 reduction in chloride ions and 21 reduction in sodium within 4.8 minutes. The sodium loss occurred even in the face of an electrochemical potential gradient favoring sodium entry. In short, this article shows that La 3 affects the permeability of animal cell membranes. Hunt, U.S. Patent 3,773,813, discloses a process for preparing anionic metal sulfonates. Lanthanum and yttrium are disclosed as some of the metal constituents.These anionic metal sulfonates are put to use as standards for spectographic equipment. Conostan, a technical publication by the ConostanDivision, Continental Oil Company Oklahoma discloses the inclusion of lanthanum anionic surfactant combinations in oil as internal standards for spectrometric analysis. Disclosure of Invention The present invention is based on the discovery that combinations of rare earth metals and certain surfactants possess synergistic antimicrobial properties. The term synergistic as used herein means that combinations of the two discrete entities, i.e., the rare earth metal and the surfactant, display a degree of enhanced antimicrobial activity which is far greater than that of either entity used alone. The superior antimicrobial properties of the compositions herein are demonstrated hereafter. The data are from standard tests for measuring Minimum Bactericidal Concentrations using a 10 minute contact with the test agent at 370C representing at least 3 log unit reduction in viable cell count . Alone, inorganic rare earth salts such as the lanthanum salts do not possess appreciable antibacterial activity under the test conditions, as demonstrated by the following data. Minimum Bactericidal Concentration Compound E. coli S. aureus LaCl 6H O 3500 ppm 3500 ppm La WO3 3 6H2O 4300 ppm 4300 ppm La2 So4 3 8H2o 7100 ppm 7100 ppm Certain anionic and zwitterionic surfactants are somewhat bactericidal to Gram positive bacteria at moderate to high concentrations, but none possess appreciable activity against Gram negatives. Lanthanum potentiates the activity of certain anionic and zwitterionic surfactants, rendering them bactericidal at low concentrations to both Gram positive and Gram negative bacteria, as demonstrated by the following data. Minimum Bactericidal Concentration ppm E. coli S. aureus as Na Na salt as Na Na saltCompound salt LaCl3 salt LaCl3 Linear Alkylate Sulfonates 1 C LAS 2000 32 2000 500 2 C6LAS 2000 16 2000 500 1 C8LAS 2000 16 2000 500 2 C8LAS 2000 16 2000 125 l CloLAS 2000 8 1000 63 2 C LAS 2000 32 2000 32 2 12LAS 2000 32 125 32 4 C12LAS 2000 500 1000 32 6 C12LAS 2000 500 125 250 3 molecular equivalents of Na surfactant to 1 molecular equivalent of LaCl3. As will be demonstrated more fully hereinafter, the rare earth metals can be used in combination with a wide variety of surfactants to provide superior, broad scale antimicrobial agents. Accordingly, the present invention encompasses water soluble compounds especially useful as antimicrobial agents, said compounds being of the formula H nMi3 n wherein M is a rare earth metal cation X is a sulfate or sulfonate moiety and R is selected from hydrocarbyl groups containing from about 8 to about 18 carbon atoms, hydrocarbyl aryl groups wherein the hydrocarbyl portion contains from about 8 to about 14 carbon atoms, substituted hydrocarbyl groups wherein the hydrocarbyl portion contains from about 6 to about 18 carbon atoms, and hydrocarbyl ammonium, phosphonium or sulphonium groups of the type R1R2R3f CH2 x or RlR2R3P CH2 x orR1R2S CH2 x wherein R1 is C8 C16, R2 and R3 are each C1 C5, x is an integer from about 1 to about 8, and n is 3 or 4, corresponding to the valence of the rare earth metal. For the reasons disclosed more fully hereinafter, when group R is hydrocarbyl aryl and has an alkyl hydrocarbyl chain of about 12 or more carbon atoms, the aryl substituent is not affixed to the terminal carbon atom of the chain, but rather is affixed to any of the other carbons, preferably the number 2 or number 3 carbon atom. The invention also encompasses synergistic antimicrobial agents comprising aqueous solutions of the rare earth metal cation and surfactants, as disclosed herein. The invention also encompasses methods for controlling microorganisms in vitro and in vivo, comprising contacting said microorganisms with a microorganismcontrolling amount of a compound or composition of the foregbing type. Specific, but non limiting examples of compositions employing the instant antimicrobial agents include dentifrices, mouthwashes, oral lozenges, tooth powder, chewing gum, shampoos, hard surface cleansers and sanitizers, skin sanitizers e.g., surgical scrubs, bar soaps , deodorants, veterinary medicaments, and the like. All percentages and parts herein are by weight, unless otherwise specified. The term rare earth as used herein includes scandium and yttrium, which are precursors of the rare earth family of elements. Best Mode The antimicrobial compositions of the instant invention comprise 1 a water soluble surfactant component, and 2 a rare earth metal component. The preparation of the antimicrobial compositions herein involves simply admixing the surfactant preferably in the form of an inorganic salt such as the sodium, potassium or ammonium salts , water and water soluble rare earth metal salt, e.g., rare earth metal chlorides preferred , nitrates or sulfates thereof. Preferably the molar ratio of the surfactant to the rare earth metal salt is about 3 1, but ratios of from about 1 1 to about 10 1 surfactant rare earth metal salt can optionally be used. The following exemplifies the preparation and isolation of lanthanum 4 1 methylnonyl benzenesulfonate LaLAS , which is the most highly preferred antimicrobial agent of this irivention. Example I A solution of sodium 4 l methylnonyl benzene sulfonate, 5.0 g 0.0156 mole , in 500 mls of distilled water was prepared by stirring and heating to 400C in a 1 liter glass beaker. While stirring this solution at 35 400C a solution of lanthanum chloride hexahydrate, 2.025 g 0.0057 mole , in 250 mls of distilled water was added over a period of 1 minute. The mixture was stirred for an additional hour at 25 300C and the precipitate recovered by vacuum filtration. After drying overnight at ambient conditions and 4 hours in vacuo over CaSO4, 3.65 g of solids were obtained. Upon analysis the following values were determined C 51.34, H 7.58, S 7.99, La 13.43, tNa 0.21, C1 0.18, H20 7.90.Calculated for C48H75OgS3La C 55.98, tH 7.29, S 9.30, La 13.41. From these values the following composition was calculated 88.5 lanthanum 4 l methylnonyl benzenesulfonate, 3.0 sodium 4 l methylnonyl benzene sulfonate, 0.5 lanthanum chloride hexahydrate, 8.0 water. It is to be understood that, once prepared, the rare earth surfactant compositions herein need not be isolated from solution in order to provide their desirable antimicrobial benefits, but can be used in situ. The following exemplifies a highly preferred antimicrobial mouthwash composition manufactured without isolation of the rare earth surfactant antimicrobial. Example II An oral composition containing LaLAS as the antimicrobial component was prepared as follows Sodium 4 l methylnonyl benzenesulfonate 250.0 g and water 3 liters were admixed in a beaker. The ingredients were stirred and heated to 400C 450C until a clear solution was obtained. This solution was transferred to a clean 20 gallon stainless steel vessel.Water 37 liters was added to the sodium 4 l methylnonyl benzenesulfonate with stirring. Sodium saccharin 10.0 g was added to the stirred solution of sodium 4 l methylnonyl benzenesulfonate. A flavor mixture consisting of varying amounts of benzaldehyde, cassia, eucalyptol, eugenol, linalool, menthol, phenylethyl alcohol and spearmint 60.0 g was added to the stirred solution of sodium 4 l methylnonyl benzenesulfonate and sodium saccharin. Separately, lanthanum chloride heptahydrate 77.4 g and water 500 ml were mixed and stirred at room temperature until a clear solution was formed. The solution of lanthanum chloride was added slowly to the stirred solution of sodium 4 1 methyl nonsl benzencsulfonate, sodium saccharin and flavor. Water 9.5 liters was added to the resulting solution, which was then stirred about 5 minutes, or longer, before packaging. It is to be understood that the rare earth surfactant compositions herein exhibit their antimicrobial properties in aqueous systems. Moreover, the compounds herein or their rare earth metal components precipitate from solution at pH s above about 8. See Moeller andKremers, Chem. Rev. 37 114 1945 . Moreover, highly acid below about pH 4 solutions of the surfactants herein have antimicrobial properties in their own right. Of course, compositions intended for oral use should have a pH above about 4 to avoid damage to dental enamel. With certain species of microorganisms, especially withPityrosporum ovale which is the causative microorganism for dandruff, the compositions herein are optimally active in the pH range of 4.0 4.5. In light of the foregoing, it will be appreciated that the antimicrobial compositions herein should be manufactured and used in solution in the pH range of from about 4 to about 8. In the practice of this invention, lanthanum has been found to be the most preferred rare earth metal. It is readily available, inexpensive and stable over the broad pH range disclosed herein. The preferred surfactant in the practice of this invention is 4 1 methylnonyl benzenesulfonate sometimes referred to as 2 C1OLAS which is a component of widely available commercial surfactant mixtures. The following data show the broad spectrum antimicrobial activity of lanthanum combined with 2 CloLAS the overall composition being referred to simply as LaLAS . Minimum Bactericidal Organism Conc. of LaLAS Gram positiveStaph. aureus ATCC 6538 32 ppmStaph. epidermidis ATCC 14990 32 ppmMicrococcus luteus ATCC 4698 125 ppmStrep. faecalis 32 ppmBacillus subtilis 500 ppm Gram negativeE. coli ATCC 11775 32 ppmPs. aeruginosa ATCC 15442 16 ppmKleb. pneumoniae ATCC 4352 125 ppmSalmonella typhimurium 125 ppmProteus vulgaris 32 ppm Industrial Applicability The water soluble antimicrobial compositions of the instant invention comprise a water soluble surfactant component RX and.a rare earth metal component Mn . The Rare Earth Metal Component The rare earth metals useful in the compounds and compositions of the instant invention are selected from scandium, yttrium, lanthanum, cerium, praseodymium, neodymium, promethium, samarium, europium, gadolinium, terbium, dysprosium, holmium, erbium, thulium, ytterbium and lutetium. Mixtures of these metals e.g., the socalled didymium salts can also be used. The rare earths are used herein in the form of their water soluble salts, especially the chloride salts. The most preferred rare earth metal used herein is lanthanum, but synergistic antimicrobials can also be prepared from the other rare earths, as demonstrated by the following data.Rare Earth 2 C LAS Cation mM m Log Survivors ml DyC13 LaC13 NdC13 PrC13 YbC13 0.1 0.3 0 0 0 0 0 0.05 0.15 0 0 0 0 0 0.01 0.03 0 0 1 0 0 0 0.3 6 6 6 6 6 0.1 0 3 5 3 3 2 0 0 7 7 7 7 7 Approximately 107 E. coli ml were exposed to the systems shown above for 10 min. at 370C. Survivors were enumer ated by tube dilution assay. In contrast, it is noteworthy that other polyvalent metals, such as aluminum, calcium, magnesium, iron, and indium are ineffective as components of the antimicrobial compositions tested in the foregoing manner. The Surfactant Component The surfactants useful in the instant invention comprise a wide variety of anionic and zwitterionic surfactants commonly known in the art for use in laundry detergents, and the like. It is to be understood that common soaps, i.e., fatty acid carboxylates, are not useful as the surfactant component of the rare earth surfactant compositions of this invention, possibly because carboxylate soaps form insoluble precipitates with the rare earth metals. The following data demonstrate the antimicrobial activity of compositions comprising lanthanum as the rare earth cation and a variety of non soap surfactants. Minimum Bactericidal Concentration ppm E. coli S. aureus as Na Na salt as Na Na saltCompound salt LaCl3 salt Lacy3 Alkyl Sulfates AS C8AS 2000 500 2000 500 CZARS 2000 63 2000 250C12AS 2000 125 500 32C13AS 2000 125 1000 63Other AnionicsDioctylsulfo succinate 2000 32 1000 63Coconut mono glyceride sulfonate 2000 16 2000 63 C 2 E3S 2000 32 2000 63 O eyl sulfate 2000 16 63 16 Average 12.5 carbon alkyl triethoxy sulfateZwitterionicsC12ammoniopropane sulfonate 2000 16 2000 500 As can be seen from the foregoing data, a wide variety of surfactants having an anionic end group which combines with the rare earth cation can be used in synergistic antimicrobial combination with rare earth metals.The general molecular structure of the surfactants herein comprises a hydrophilic sulfate or sulfonate water solubilizing group and a hydrophobic hydrocarbyl entail. Typically, the hydrophobic portion of the surfactants used herein will comprise a hydrocarbyl group containing from about 8 to about 18 carbon atoms, or a hydrocarbyl aryl group wherein the hydrocarbyl portion contains from about 8 to about 14 carbon atoms, or substituted hydrocarbyl groups wherein the hydrocarbyl portion contains from about 6 to about 18 carbon atoms, or hydrocarbyl cationic groups ammonium, phosphonium, sulphonium , preferably of the type R1R2R3N CH2 x whereinR1 is C8 C16, R2 and R3 are each C1 C5 and x is an integer from about 1 to about 8. Commercially available anionic surfactants useful herein comprise those defined as the water soluble salts including the alkali metal, ammonium and substituted ammonium salts of organic sulfuric reaction products having in their molecular structure a hydrophobic group containing from about 8 to about 18 carbon atoms and a water solubilizing group selected from the group consisting of sulfonic acid and sulfuric acid ester radicals. Important examples of the synthetic detergents which can be used in the compositions of the present invention are the following, in the form of their alkali metal e.g., sodium and potassium ammonium and substituted ammonium e.g., lower alkyl ammonium salts alkyl sulfates, especially those obtained by sulfating the higher alcohols produced by reducing the glycerides of tallow or coconut oil random paraffin sulfonates in which the alkyl group contains from about 8 to about 14 carbon atoms, prepared by treating random paraffin hydrocarbons in sulfur dioxide and chlorine in the presence of light followed by treating with a base branched or linear alkyl benzene sulfonates in which the alkyl group contains from about 8 to about 14 carbon atoms, preferably from about 10 to about 14 carbon atoms, especially those of the types described in U.S.Patents 2,220,099 2,477,383 and 3,794,605, which are incorporated herein by reference. Typical examples of surfactants having substituted hydrocarbyl hydrophobic groups useful herein include the sodium alkyl glyceryl ether sulfonates, especially those ethers of the higher alcohols derived from tallow and coconut oil coconut oil fatty acid monoglyceride sulfates and sulfonates sulfuric acid esters of the reaction product of one mole of a higher fatty alcohol e.g., tallow or coconut alcohols and from about 1 to about 6, preferably about 3 moles of ethylene oxide alkyl phenol ethylene oxide ether sulfates with about 4 units of ethylene oxide per molecule and in which the alkyl groups contain about 9 carbon atoms the reaction product of fatty acids esterified with isethionic acid and neutralized with sodium hydroxide where, for example, the fatty acids are derived from coconut oil fatty acid amides of the methyl taurine in which the fatty acids, for example, are derived from coconut oil sulfonated olefins of U.S.Patent 3,332,880, incorporated herein by reference and esters of sulphodicarboxylic acid such as described inU.S. Patents 2,176,423 and 2,028,091, which are incorporated herein by reference. Other surfactants having an anionic watersolubilizing group which can be used herein fall within the general class of zwitterionic surfactants ammonio, sulfonio and phosphonio surfactants . Typical examples of these classes of surfactants, along with methods of synthesis, are disclosed in U.S. Patents 3,929,678 and 4,051,234, incorporated herein by reference. As can be seen from the foregoing, a wide variety of surfactants interact synergistically with the rare earths to provide excellent antimicrobials. As a general proposition, and depending to some extent on the particular microorganism, the optimal, broad spectrum antimicrobial activity of the compositions herein is shown with surfactants having hydrocarbyl groups in what can be termed the medium chain length range. That is to say, activity begins to diminish at chain lengths below aboutC6 hexyl and about C1, or above. Again, however, this depends to some extent on the microorganism and on the particular surfactant being used to form the surfactant rare earth composition. In the preferred alkyl benzene sulfonates LinearAlkylate Sulfonates or sulfates used herein, the hydrocarbyl group is an alkyl substituent. The alkyl group will contain about 8 to about 14 carbon atoms. As seen from the data presented hereinabove, the position of attachment of the sulfonated benzene ring to the alkyl group can affect antimicrobial activity. For example, aC10 alkyl benzene sulfonate having the sulfonated benzene ring attached to the number 5 carbon atom of the alkyl chain would essentially provide a surfactant having two short chain substituents, rather than a single, relatively longer chain substituent on the benzene, and such compounds, while active, are not optimal for use as antimicrobials.In contrast, attaching the sulfonated benzene ring to the number 2 carbon atom of a C10 alkyl group yields 2 C1OLAS, which is a preferred surfactant herein. Similarly, attachment of the sulfonated benzene ring at the terminal carbon of, say, a linear C12 substituent yields an n C12LAS surfactant which, in combination with a rare earth, is rather water insoluble and rather poor as an antimicrobial. The present invention specifically encompasses the more water soluble, antimicrobially active rare earth alkyl benzene sulfonate compositions. Alkyl benzene sulfonate surfactants LAS for use herein include the following wherein the integer indicates the carbon atom on the alkyl chain to which the sulfonated benzene is attached l C6H13LAS 2 C6H13LAS l C8H17LAS 2 C8H1LAS 1 C10H21LAS 2 C10H21LAS 2 C12H25LAS 4 C12H25LAS and 6 C12H25LAS. 6 The 1 and 2 C10 compounds and 2 C12 compound yield optimal results, with the 2 CloLAS being most preferred. LAS surfactants wherein the alkyl chain is C12, or longer, and wherein the sulfonated benzene ring is attached to the terminal carbon atom, form oil soluble surfactants with rare earth metals. Another type of anionic surfactant used herein comprises the alkyl including unsaturated alkyl sulfates, which are also well known in the detergency arts.Such compounds used herein contain an alkyl group in theC8 C18 chain length range. Again, if the chain is too short below about. C8 activity drops if the chain is too long, solubility in combination with the rare earth and activity drops. Antimicrobial activity can be enhanced by inserting points of unsaturation in the alkyl chain to provide alkenyl sulfates. For example, oleyl sulfate, when combined with lanthanum, shows excellent antimicrobial activity. Typical examples of alkyl and alkenyl sulfate surfactants useful herein include n C8H17AS n C10H21AS n C12H25AS and n C13H27AS. As can be seen from the data presented hereinabove, the LAS surfactants are preferred over the AS surfactants for preparing rare earth surfactant antimicrobials. Various other types of surfactants having sulfate or sulfonate anionic hydrophobic groups and substituted hydrocarbyl hydrophobic groups are well known in the detergency arts, as noted hereinabove. In general, the substituents on the hydrocarbyl chain serve to enhance the water solubility of such surfactants and, thus, desirably enhance the water solubility of compositions comprising such surfactants and rare earth metals.Accordingly, the hydrocarbyl group can be somewhat longer for the substituted surfactants than with the bnsub stituted LAS and AS types. Typical, non limiting examples of materials falling within the general class of substituted surfactants useful herein include the alkyl sulfosuccinates esters of sulfo dicarboxylic acids , the alkyl monoglyceride sulfonates, the alkyl glyceryl ether sulfonates, and the alkyl ethoxylated and alkyl phenyl ethoxylated sulfates and sulfonates with 3 30 ethoxy groups. In such compounds, the hydrophobic portion of the surfactant can contain 6 to about 18 carbon atoms, preferably 8 to about 16 carbon atoms. The sulfonated zwitterionics are another well known type of surfactant which can be used herein. Specific examples of substituted and zwitterionic surfactants useful herein include dioctylsulfosuccinate di coconutsulfoadipate dioctylsulfosebacate C12 5 triethoxy sulfate C9Hl9 phenyl hexaethoxy sulfate C14 triethoxy sulfate C16 pentaethoxy sulfate coconutalkyl ethoxy avg. 7 sulfate coconut monoglyceride sulfonate coconut diglycerylether sulfonate 5 S 3 hydroxypropyl S dodecylsulfonio 3 hydroxypentane l sulfate 3 N,Ndimethyl N decylammonio propane l sulfonate 3 N,N dimethyl N hexadecylammonio 2 hydroxypropane l sul fonate 5 N,N di 3 hydroxypropyl N decyldecylammonio 2 hydroxypentane l sulfate and C12H25N CH3 2 CH2 3SO3e. As can be seen from the foregoing discussion and data, the antimicrobials provided by the present invention can be used in a wide variety of products. Oral products comprising the herein described antimicrobial compositions and an orally acceptable carrier are one class of products encompassed by this invention. Such oral products include mouthwashes, dentifrices toothpastes, tooth powders , chewing gum, lozenges, and the like. Mouthwashes prepared according to this invention comprise a a safe and effective amount of the aforedescribed antimicrobial and b an orally acceptable carrier. The mouthwash carrier can be water or an organic solvent such as various alcohols, or mixtures thereof.Mouthwashes generally comprise a water ethyl alcohol solution and optionally contain other ingredients such as standard flavors, sweeteners, humectants, and the like, as disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,067,962 issued January 10, 1978 incorporated herein by reference. The alcohol helps solubilize the rare earth surfactant antimicrobial, controls product sudsing, etc. Mouthwashes according to this invention contain about 0.01 to 5.08 of the rare earth surfactant antimicrobial 0 to 40 ethyl alcohol 0 to 20 preferably 5 to 20 glycerine or other humectant 0 to 2 preferably 0.1 to 2 sudsing agent 0 to 0.5 preferably 0.05 to 0.5 sweetening agent such as saccharin and 0 to 0.3 preferably 0.05 to 0.3 flavoring agent and the balance, water. Example III The efficacy of the antimicrobial composition LaLAS was compared with the known anti plaque agent chlorhexidine digluconate for the prevention of dental plaque, as follows Lanthanum 4 l methylnonyl benzenesulfonate LaLAS was used in this test to reduce the in vitro growth of dental plaque on teeth. This was done using a system of glass growth chambers containing clean, extracted, sound human teeth mounted in stainless steel brackets. After sterilization in an autoclave, the growth chambers were inoculated with homogenized human plaque scrapings and serially treated with TrypticaseR soy broth, sucrose, artificial saliva, and solutions of plaque inhibiting materials for four days. The plaqueinhibiting solutions were introduced for one minute each morning and afternoon.After this treatment, the teeth were withdrawn from the growth chambers, stained with an alcoholic solution of basic fuchsin to disclose any plaque that had formed and, after randomization, graded for percent plaque coverage by three trained judges.Percent plaque reduction was calculated by comparison with water treated controls. 8 Plaque Reduction in Whin Comparison Compound With Water Control Water 0 2140 ppm LaLAS in 20 EtOH 82 2000 ppm chlorhexidine digluconate 84 In the foregoing test, the anti plaque efficacy of LaLAS was equivalent to chlorhexidine digluconate.However, chlorhexidine digluconate undesirably promotes stains while LaLAS does not, as demonstrated by the following stain test. Plastic artificial molars were mounted in the caps of disposable plastic vials using dental cement. A thin, organic pellicle was developed on the teeth by exposure for about 17 hours to pooled human saliva which has been centrifuged for 2 minutes at 500X gravity to remove food and similar debris. The coated teeth were serially exposed for 5 minutes to a solution of the test material, a distilled water rinse, for 5 minutes to a solution of instant coffee and tea 20 grams of commercial instant coffee and 2 grams of commercial instant tea in 1 liter of distilled water , a distilled water rinse, the test solution for 5 minutes, a distilled water rinse, the coffee tea solution for 5 minutes, and a final distilled water rinse.The teeth were then graded for degree of staining on a 0 8 scale where 0 was no stain and 8 was continuous dark brown stain by comparison with a photographic standard. Test results were as follows Test Solution Stain Grade H2 0 Control 0 2000 ppm Cetylpyridinium chloride 2.7 2000 ppm Chlorhexidine 3.2 2000 ppm LaLAS 0.1 2000 ppm LaLAS in 20 EtOH 0 Example IV A mouthwash in accordance with the present invention is formulated as follows Parts byComponent WeightEthyl alcohol 95 in water 12.00Polyoxyethylene 20 sorbitan monooleate 0.12Sodium hydroxide 10 in water to pH 6.5 7.0Sodium saccharin 0.055Flavoring 0.16LaLAS 0.20Color 0.05Sorbitol 70 in water 12.00Distilled water balance to 100 When used in the normal manner to rinse the mouth, this product is effective in retarding the formation of dental plaque and produces appreciably lower levels of stain on the teeth than does the antiplaque agent chlorhexidine. Example V The mouthwash composition of Example IV is formulated by replacing the LaLAS with an equivalent amount ofCe 2 C12LAS, Pr 4 C12LAS, Y 2 C1OLAS, La dioctysulfo succinate, Nd C12 dimethylammoniopropanesulfonate andGd oleyl sulfate, respectively, and equivalent results are secured. Dentifrices prepared according to the instant invention contain the instant antimicrobial, as well as various abrasive polishing materials, sudsing agents, flavoring and sweetening agents, humectants, binders and water. See also U.S. Patent 4,067,962 for disclosures of typical materials and methods for preparing dentifrices. Certain ingredients used in many commercial dentifrice compositions are preferably avoided in dentifrices containing the rare èarth surfactant antimicrobials. For example, soluble fluorides react with the rare earths and precipitate as the metal fluorides. Certain phosphate dentifrice abrasives are somewhat soluble and can undesirably cause precipitation of rare earth phosphates. Various inert dentifrice abrasives useful herein are known, including, by way of example, the condensation products of urea and formaldehyde as disclosed by Cooley, et al. in U.S. Patent 3,070,510 issued December 25, 1962 silica xerogels such as those disclosed in U.S.Patent 3,538,230 to Pader, et al. issued November 3, 1970 and mineral abrasives coated with cationic polymers such as those disclosed in U.S. patent application SerialNo. 471,941, Benedict, filed May 21, 1974, incorporated herein by reference. Example VI A toothpaste is prepared according to the following formula Parts byComponent WeightSorbitol 70 soln. 20.00Sodium saccharin 0.21Veegum colloidal magnesium aluminum silicate 0.40Precipitated urea formaldehyde condensate abrasive 30.00Flavor 1.00Locust bean gum 1.30Glycerine 10.00LaLAS 0.70Sodium lauryl sulfate 1.50Distilled water balance to 100 The toothpaste of Example VI, when used in the normal manner, is effective in retarding the formation of dental plaque and produces an appreciably lower level of stain on the teeth than does chlorhexidine. Example VII The toothpaste of Example VI is modified by replacing the LaLAS with 1.0 pbw of the following rare earth surfactant compositions, respectively, and equivalent results are secured didymium 2 C8LAS, didymium 1 C1OLAS, didymium 2 C12LAS, didymium 4 C12LAS and didymium 6 C12LAS. Example VIII A chewing gum in accordance with the present invention is formulated as follows Parts byComponent WeightGum Base 21.30 Ester Gum 6.40 Coumarone resin 9.60 Dry latex rubber 3.20 Paraffin wax M.P. 1800F 2.10Sugar 58.45Corn Syrup Baume 45 18.20Flavoring 1.05LaLAS 1.00 Chewing this gum in the normal manner retards the formation of dental plaque and produces no appreciable staining of the teeth as does chlorhexidine. Example IX A shampoo composition containing LaLAS is prepared by blending the following components Parts byComponent WeightSodium coconut alkyl glyceryl sulfonate 15.0Sodium stearate 8.7Perfume 1.0LaLAS 3.0Citric acid to pH 4.0 4.2Water to 100 The product of Example IX is effective in retarding and or controlling the microorganism Pityrosporum ovale responsible for dandruff on hair. Example X A skin moisturizing composition containing LaLAS is prepared as follows Parts byComponent WeightAmerlate WFAa 0.75Amerlate Wb 1.00Stearic acid 1.00Cetyl alcohol 1.75Stearyl alcohol 0.75 OH Lane 0.75Arlacel 165d 0.75Arlamol Ee 1.25 2 pyrrolidinone 8.00Distilled water 72.55Natrosol HH 1.00Propylene glycol 2.50Sorbitol 70 solution in H2O 2.50Triethanolamine 0.65LaLAS 2.00Titanium dioxide 0.20Perfume and minors to 100 admixture of lanolin fatty acids Amerchol Unit of CPC International .bIsopropyl ester of lanolin fatty acids Amerchol Unit of CPC International . CHydroxylated lanolin Amerchol Unit of CPC International .dGlycerol monostearate ICI United States, Inc. . ePolyoxypropylene 15 stearyl ether ICI United States, Inc. .fHydroxyethylcellulose Hercules, Inc. When used in the normal manner, the product ofExample X is free from microorganisms which tend to develop in many dermatological compositions. Example XI A hard surface cleaning composition containingLaLAS is prepared as follows Parts byComponent Weight 3 N, N dimethyl N coconutalkylammonio 2.0 2 hydroxypropane l sulfonateEthoxylated 7 moles primary coconut alcohol 4.0Straight chain random secondary alcohol 1.5 Cll Cl5 C13 average Potassium cumene sulfonate 4.0Potassium toluene sulfonate 4.0LaLAS 4.0Water to 100 When used in the normal manner to scrub floors, walls, windows, doors, and the like, the product ofExample XI is effective in controlling the growth of microorganisms on the hard surfaces treated therewith. Example XII The antimicrobial hard surface cleanser ofExample XI is modified by replacing the LaLAS with 5 78 concentrations of the following antimicrobials, respectively, and equivalent results are secured La coconut monoglyceryl ether sulfonate, Dy C10 diethylammoniopropane sulfonate, Lu C1OAS, Nd C12AS, Eu 2 C1OLAS, Ho 2 C1OLAS, Er 2 C1OLAS and Sm 2 CloLAS. Example XIII A stable, antimicrobial solution useful in situations where sterile solutions are required, e.g., for irrigating wounds and surgical incisions, is as follows Parts perComponent Million LaC13 6H2O 45 2 Cl0LAS 135Pyrogen free water Balance As can be seen from the data presented herein and the foregoing examples, the present invention provides an excellent method for controlling microorganisms, especially in water containing systems at a pH in the range of 4 to about 8. Aqueous compositions containing the rare earth surfactant compositions of this invention safely provide broad spectrum antimicrobials at usage levels in the range of ca. 8 ppm, and above, preferably ca. 25 30 ppm, and above, depending on the microorganism. Thus, the antimicrobial compositions herein are useful in a wide variety of situations where sanitization of environmental or body surfaces is desirable. Skin sanitizers comprising safe and antimicrobially effective amounts of the rare earth surfactant compositions and a cosmetically acceptable cleansing type carrier at a pH within the range from above about 4.5 to about pH 7, and shampoo compositions comprising a safe and antimicrobially effective amount of said compositions in an acceptable shampoo type carrier having a pH within the range of about 4 to about 4.5, are typical of the uses of the present compositions. Likewise, hard surface sanitizing cleansers comprising the present compositions and hard surface cleanser type carriers are another use. Of course, any of these types of products are equally appropriate for both human and veterinary use, and any of the products exemplified hereinabove can be used with pets and domestic animals of all types.