# PYRIMIDINE COMPOUNDS

## Claims
Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragsstaaten BE, CH, DE, FR, GB, IT, LI, LU, NL, SE

## Description
This invention relates to 5 oxypyrimidinone derivatives, pharmaceutical compositions containing them, their use as histamine H₂ antagonists, processes for their preparation and intermediates therefor. Histamine, a physiologically active compound endogenous in mammals, exerts its action by interacting with certain sites called receptors. One type of receptor is known as a histamine H₁ receptor Ash and Schild, Brit. J. Pharmac. Chemother. Histamine H₂ antagonists are useful in treating disease conditions caused by the biological effects of histamine mediated through H₂ receptors, for example, as inhibitors of gastric acid secretion, in the treatment of inflammation mediated through histamine H₂ receptors and as agents which act on the cardiovascular system, for example, as inhibitors of effects of histamine on blood pressure mediated through histamine H₂ receptors. Cimetidine is an example of a histamine H₂ antagonist. Cimetidine has been shown to be useful in the treatment of duodenal, gastric, recurrent and stomal ulceration, and reflux oesophagitis and in the management of patients who are at high risk from haemorrhage of the upper gastrointestinal tract. In some physiological conditions the biological actions of histamine are mediated through both histamine H₁ and H₂ receptors and blockade of both types of receptors is useful. These conditions include inflammation mediated by histamine, for example skin inflammation, and those hypersensitivity responses due to the action of histamine at H₁ and H₂ receptors, for example allergies. A small group of compounds has now been invented, which compounds have a 5 oxy substituent on a pyrimidin 4 one ring and have a particularly favourable level of activity as H₂ antagonists. Accordingly the present invention provides a compound of the formula I or a salt thereof, wherein The compounds of this invention are preferably provided in a form suitable for pharmaceutical use as a compound of the formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. When used herein alkyl means groups that are either straight chained or branched. In general preferred alkyl groups are methyl and ethyl. Suitably R¹ is phenyl C₁ ₆ alkyl for example benzyl or phenethyl, furanyl C₁ ₆ alkyl such as furanylmethyl or thienyl C Suitably R² is hydrogen or C Suitably R¹ and R² have the same value, for example they both are methyl or they are both ethyl. In another suitable aspect R¹ and R² together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached form a pyrrolidino, piperidino or hexahydroazepino ring, preferably a piperidino ring. Preferably n is one. Suitably Z is 2,5 furanyl or 2,5 thienyl. In such compounds preferably Y is sulphur. For example R¹R²N CH₂ In another aspect Z is 2,4 thiazolyl. In such compounds preferably Y is sulphur, for example R¹R²N CH₂ In a preferred aspect Z is 2,4 pyridyl. In an alternative preferred aspect Z is 1,3 phenylene. In each type of compound preferably CH₂ Preferably p is 3 when m is zero. Preferably p is 2 when m is one. Suitably q is zero. Suitably R³ is C₁ ₆alkyl for example methyl. Preferably R³ is hydrogen. Favourably R⁴ is hydrogen. Preferably R⁴ is C₁ ₆alkyl for example methyl, ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl or n butyl. Of these methyl is favoured. In a favoured aspect the present invention provides compounds of the formula I wherein R¹R²N CR₂ The compounds of the formula I , are shown and described as 4 pyrimidinone derivatives and these derivatives exist in equilibrium with the corresponding 6 pyrimidinone tautomers. These compounds also exist to a lesser extent as the hydroxy tautomers and the pyrimidinone ring, when q is one, may also exist in the following tautomeric forms The activity of the compounds of formula I as histamine H₂ antagonists can be demonstrated by their ability to inhibit histamine stimulated secretion of gastric acid from the lumen perfused stomachs of rats anaesthetised with urethane, and to reverse histamine induced inhibition of contractions of the isolated rat uterus. These are actions of histamine which, according to Ash and Schild, Brit. J. Pharmac. Chemother. The histamine H₂ antagonist activity of the compounds can also be demonstrated by the inhibition of histamine stimulated acid secretion in the Heidenhain Pouch Dog, the inhibition of histamine induced tachycardia in the isolated guinea pig right atrium and the inhibition of histamine induced vasodilatation in the anaesthetised cat. The measurement of inhibition of histamine stimulated secretion of gastric acid from the lumen perfused stomachs of rats anaesthetised with urethane, and the measurement of inhibition of histamine induced tachycardia in the isolated guinea pig right atrium, are detailed in European Patent Application Publication No 0049173. In order to use the compounds of the formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof for medical purposes, they are normally formulated in accordance with standard pharmaceutical practice as pharmaceutical compositions. The invention further provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising a compound of the formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The compounds of the formula I and their pharmaceutically acceptable salts may be administered, for example, orally, parenterally, cutaneously or rectally. The compounds of the formula I and their pharmaceutically acceptable salts which are active when given orally can be formulated as syrups, tablets, capsules and lozenges. A syrup formulation will generally consist of a suspension or solution of the compound or pharmaceutically acceptable salt in a suitable liquid carrier for example, ethanol, glycerine or water with a flavouring or colouring agent. Where the composition is in the form of a tablet, any suitable pharmaceutical carrier routinely used for preparing solid formulations may be used. Examples of such carriers include magnesium stearate, starch, lactose, sucrose and cellulose. Typical parenteral compositions consist of a solution or suspension of the compound or pharmaceutically acceptable salt in a sterile aqueous carrier or parenterally acceptable oil. Typical compositions for administration to the skin include lotions and creams in which the compound of the formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is contained in a liquid vehicle. A typical suppository formulation comprises a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof which is active when administered in this way, with a binding and or lubricating agent such as gelatin or cocoa butter or other low melting vegetable waxes or fats. Preferably the composition is in unit dose form such as a tablet or capsule. Each dosage unit for oral administration contains preferably from 15 to 250 mg and for parenteral administration contains preferably from 0.5 to 25 mg of a compound of the formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof calculated as the free base. The invention also provides a method of blocking histamine H₂ receptors which comprises administering to an animal an effective amount to block said receptors of a compound of the formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. The pharmaceutically acceptable compounds of the invention will normally be administered to a subject for the treatment of peptic ulcers and other conditions caused or exacerbated by gastric acidity in the same general manner as that employed for known histamine H₂ antagonists, due allowance being made in terms of dose levels for the potency of the compound of the present invention relative to known histamine H₂ antagonists. The daily dosage regimen for example for an adult patient may be an oral dose of between 15 mg and 1000 mg, preferably between 20 mg and 250 mg, or an intravenous, subcutaneous, or intramuscular dose of between 0.5 mg and 100 mg, preferably between 1 mg and 20 mg, of the compound of the formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof calculated as the free base, the compound being administered 1 to 4 times per day. In a further aspect of this invention the compounds of the formula I and salts thereof may be prepared by a process which comprises Examples of the moiety L include chloro, bromo, hydroxy, C₁ ₆alkoxy for example methoxy, C₁ ₆alkanoyloxy for example acetoxy, arylsulphonyloxy for example 4 methylbenzenesulphonyloxy, or C₁ ₆alkylsulphonyloxy for example methanesulphonyloxy. Preferably L is hydroxy in which case the reaction between the compounds of the formulae IV and V is performed under acidic conditions. When L is chloro or bromo it is preferable to perform the reaction in the presence of a strong base for example sodium ethoxide in ethanol. When L is an arylsulphonyloxy or alkylsulphonyloxy group the reaction is preferably performed under mildly basic conditions for example in pyridine solution. In the reaction of compounds of the formulae IV and V , when carried out under basic conditions about one equivalent of base is used in order that a thiolate anion is preferentially formed on the HS CH₂ Suitably in the reaction of compounds of the formulae VI and VII L¹ is chloro, bromo, arylsulphonyloxy for example 4 methylbenzenesulphonyloxy or C The compound of the formula IX is depicted as a ketone or aldehyde, dependent on whether R³ is alkyl or hydrogen. This invention covers the reaction of chemical equivalents of such depicted compounds, as known in the art, for example protected or masked aldehydes and ketones, for example an acetal. When it is desired to form a compound of the formula I wherein R³ is hydrogen, then for example a compound of the formula VIII may be reacted with a compound of the formula IXA and thereafter deprotecting if necessary wherein R⁷ and R⁵ are as hereinbefore defined and X is a displaceable group. For example X may be hydroxy in which case the form depicted is tautomeric with formula IX or a derivative thereof, so that for example X is protected hydroxy such as silyloxy, an acid residue RCO 0 for example C In compounds of the formulae IX and IXA the ester forming group R⁷ can be a C The reaction between the compounds of formulae VIII and IX or IXA is carried out in the presence of base. Examples of suitable bases include alkali metal hydroxides and C Suitably in the compounds of the formula X , L² is chloro or bromo. The reaction of a compound of the formula X with a compound of the formula XI is generally performed under basic conditions, for example the anion of the compound of the formula XI may be generated, for example using sodium hydride in a suitable solvent. In the reaction between the compounds of the formulae XII and XIII suitably L³ is chloro or bromo. Suitably the reaction is performed under basic conditions, for example the anion of the compound of the formula XII may be generated, for example using sodium hydride. The reaction is performed in a suitable aprotic solvent for example dimethylformamide at a non extreme temperature for example between 0 C and 100 C, suitably between ambient and 70 C. In the compounds of the formula XIV in one suitable aspect R⁸ is a group R¹R²N CH₂ In an alternative aspect R⁸ is a group CHO CH₂ Suitable protected hydroxy groups OR⁵ and OR Suitably functional groups on the group R⁴ may be protected and deprotected in conventional manner. For converting a compound wherein R⁶ is furan 2 yl or thien 2 yl to a compound of the formula I wherein m is 1, suitable Mannich reagents include formaldehyde and an amine R¹R²NH or salt thereof. Such a reaction may be carried out by treatment of an amine salt with aqueous formaldehyde and a compound wherein R⁶ is unsubstituted furan 2 yl or thien 2 yl, or by heating an amine salt with paraformaldehyde and a compound wherein R⁶ is unsubstituted furan 2 yl or thien 2 yl, in a convenient solvent such as ethanol. Alternatively where R¹ and R² are both C Any group in the remainder of the molecule that is capable of reacting with a Mannich reagent may be optionally protected during the reaction, and may be subsequently deprotected in conventional manner. Thus any deprotection of the 5 pyrimidinone substituent is preferably performed after the Mannich reaction. The formation of the group R¹R²N CH₂ Pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts of the compounds of the formula I may be prepared from the corresponding base of the compounds of the formula I in conventional manner. For example the base may be reacted with an acid in a C₁ ₄alkanol, or an ion exchange resin may be used. The salts of the compounds of the formula I may be interconverted using ion exchange resins. Non pharmaceutically acceptable salts are therefore of use as they can be converted to pharmaceutically acceptable salts. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts of the compounds of the formula I include those formed with hydrochloric, hydrobromic, sulphuric, phosphoric, acetic, citric, maleic, lactic, ascorbic, fumaric, oxalic, methanesulphonic and ethanesulphonic acids. The compounds of the formula IV , VI , VIII and X may be prepared for example by the methods described in European Patent Application Publication Nos 3677, 4793, 13071, 15138, 17679, 17680, 24873, 49173, 87274 and 89153 and UK Patent Application 2030979A. The compounds of the formula V wherein q is zero may be prepared by the reaction of a compound of the formula XVII wherein p is as hereinbefore defined and the thiol moiety is suitably protected, with a compound of the formula IX or IXA , under similar conditions to those described hereinbefore for the reaction with compounds of the formula VIII . The compounds of the formula XI , VII and XIII wherein q is zero may be prepared from conversion of the thiol group of compounds of the formulae V or may be prepared by the reaction of a formula XVIII wherein L⁴ is hydroxy or a group L¹ or L³ as hereinbefore defined and p is as hereinbefore defined, and L⁴ is suitably protected if desired, with a compound of the formula IX . The compounds of the formulae XVII and XVIII may be prepared from the corresponding nitriles. The compounds of the formula XIV may be prepared in a manner analogous to that described for the preparation of compounds of the formula I . The following Examples serve to illustrate this invention. 2 3 3 Piperidinomethyl phenoxy propyl 5 benzyloxypyrimidin 4 one 0.68 g was stirred under reflux for 24 hours in 1N hydrochloric acid 20 ml . The mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and taken to pH 8 with aqueous sodium bicarbonate. This mixture was extracted with n butanol 3x20 ml these extracts were combined, washed with water 2x5 ml , dried MgSO₄ and evaporated under reduced pressure to give the title compound. This was dissolved in methanol containing ethanolic HCl, excess solvent was evaporated under reduced pressure and the residue crystallised from isopropanol acetone to give 2 3 3 piperidinomethyl phenoxy propyl 5 hydroxypyrimidin 4 one dihydrochloride 0.24 g , m.p. 192 4 C The sodium salt of ethyl 3 oxo 2 methoxypropionate was obtained from ethyl methoxyacetate 1.18 g and ethyl formate 0.89 g by a method analogous to that of Example 1. This was stirred under reflux for 30 hours with the filtrate from the reaction of 4 3 piperidinomethyl phenoxy butyronamidine hydrochloride 3.12 g and sodium 0.28 g see Example 1 . The reaction mixture was cooled, evaporated under reduced pressure and water 25 ml added. The solution was extracted with diethyl ether 3x20 ml , taken to pH 9 with glacial acetic acid and extracted into chloroform 3x25 ml . The combined chloroform washings were dried MgSO₄ and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was crystallised from diethyl ether to give the title compound 1.36 g , m.p. 124 126.5 C recrystallisation from isopropanol ether . In a method analogous to Example 3 and on the same molar scale, ethyl ethoxyacetate 1.32 g , ethyl formate 0.89 g and 4 3 piperidinomethyl phenoxy butyronamidine hydrochloride 3.12 g gave the title compound 0.97 g as a white solid on crystallisation from isopropanol ether, m.p. 104.5 105.5 C. A pharmaceutical composition for oral administration is prepared containing by mixing together the ingredients A substituting lactose or microcrystalline cellose for dibasic calcium phosphate dihydrate if desired , adding a concentrated solution of polyvinylpyrrolidone and granulating, drying and screening the dried granules adding the ingredients B to the dried granules and compressing the mixture into tablets containing 100 mg, 150 mg or 200 mg of the free base. Other compounds of the invention, for example those specifically described in Examples 2 to 4 can be formulated into pharmaceutical compositions by a similar procedure. The compounds of this invention, where tested, show no overt signs of toxicity at doses which are a pertinent multiple of the therapeutic dose.