# A PROCESS FOR PREPARING AN ALPHA OLEFIN POLYMERIZATION CATALYST

## Claims
Verfahren zur Herstellung einer Katalysatorzusammensetzung zur Verwendung bei α Olefin Polymerisations reaktionen mit den folgenden Schritten

## Description
The invention relates to a process for preparing a catalyst for use in the polymerization of alpha olefins and, more particularly, for use in alpha olefin polymerization reactions which produce linear low density polyethylene LLDPE and high density polyethylene HDPE having high bulk density. Linear low density polyethylene polymers possess properties which distinguish them from other polyethylene polymers, such as homopolymers of polyethylene. Certain of these properties are described in U.S. Patent No. 4, 076,698. U.S. Patent No. 4,302,566 describes a process for producing certain linear low density polyethylene polymers in a gas phase, fluid bed reactor. U.S. Patent No. 4,173,547, U.S. Patent No. 3,787,384, U.S. Patent No. 4, 148,754, and U.S. Patent No. 4,063,009 describe various polymerization processes suitable for producing forms of polyethylene other than linear low density polyethylene, per se. U.S. Patent No. 4,173,547, describes a supported catalyst obtained by treating a support with both an organoaluminum compound and an organomagnesium compound followed by contacting this treated support with a tetravalent titanium compound. U.S. Patent Nos. 3,787,384, and 4,148,754, describe catalysts prepared by first reacting a support e.g., silica containing reactive hydroxyl groups with an organomagnesium compound e.g., a Grignard reagent and then combining this reacted support with a tetravalent titanium compound. According to the teachings of both of these patents, no unreacted organomagnesium compound appears to be present when the reacted support is contacted with the tetravalent titanium compound. U.S. Patent No. 4,063,009, describes a catalyst which is the reaction product of an organomagnesium compound e.g., an alkylmagnesium halide with a tetravalent titanium compound. The reaction of the organomagnesium compound with the tetravalent titanium compound takes place in the absence of a support material. A vanadium containing catalyst, used in conjunction with triisobutylaluminum as a co catalyst, is disclosed by W. L. Carrick et al in EP A 8l940 discloses an alpha olefin polymerization catalyst prepared by heating a solid, porous carrier in a nitrogen atmosphere at a temperature of l00⁰C to 800⁰C, contacting the carrier containing reactive hydroxyl groups OH with a greater than a stoichiometric amount of an organomagnesium composition, and reacting the product of that step with a tetravalent titanium compound, also used in the amount greater than the stoichiometric amount thereof with respect to the hydroxyl groups on the carrier, to produce a catalyst precursor. The catalyst precursor is then combined with an activator, also known as a co catalyst, to produce an active catalyst composition. U.S. Patent 4,434,083 discloses a process of preparing a catalyst component for polymerizing alpha olefins by depositing an organomagnesium compound on an inert support and thereafter contacting with a Ti or V compound, e.g. TiCl₄. Preferably, the catalyst after treatment with organomagnesium compound is heated in an oxidizing atmosphere. It is an object of the invention to provide a process for preparing an alpha olefin polymerization catalyst composition having improved productivity. According to the invention, there is provided a process for preparing a catalyst composition for use in alpba olefin polymerization reactions comprising the steps of Suitable porous carrier materials which may be used in the present process include silica, alumina and combinations thereof, which contain reactive OH groups. A suitable carrier is a material which, when it is contacted with the first liquid containing the organomagnesium composition, contains water as represented by hydroxyl OH groups in the amount of at least about 0.1 mmoles, preferably 0.1 to 2.0 mmoles, and most preferably 0.3 to 0.5 mmoles of OH groups per gram of carrier. Such carrier materials may be amorphous or crystalline in form. Examples of suitable carrier materials are disclosed in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,173,547 and 3,718,636 The carrier material is conveniently in the form of particles having a particle size of from 0.1 micrometer to 200 micrometers, more preferably from 10 to 150 micrometers. Preferably, the carrier is in the form of spherical particles, e.g., spray dried silica. The internal porosity of the carrier is conveniently larger than 0.2 cm³ g, preferably larger than 0.6 cm³ g. The specific surface area of the carriers is conveniently larger than 50 m² g, preferably from 150 to 1500 m² g. Internal porosity of carriers can be determined by a technique termed BET technique, described by S. Brunauer, P. Emmett and E. Teller in In the most preferred embodiment, the carrier is a high surface area, amorphous silica surface area at about 330 m² g pore volume of about 1.50 m³ per gram marketed under the tradename of Davison 955 by the Davison Chemical Division of W.R. Grace and Company. The silica is in the form of spherical particles, e.g., as obtained by a spray drying process. The carrier is heated in an oxygen containing gas to remove physically bound water prior to contacting the carrier with water reactive magnesium compounds. The water removal step is accomplished by heating the carrier material in the oxygen containing gas to a temperature of from 100 C to an upper limit represented by the temperature at which a change of state or sintering occurs. A suitable range of temperatures is from 100 C to 1000 C, preferably from 150 C to 850 C, more preferably from 750 C to 850 C and most preferably about 800 C. The heating is preferably continued for 4 16 hours. The oxygen containing gas used in the initial heating of the carrier is any gas comprising oxygen but substantially free of water vapor H₂O . Thus, the gas may contain not more than 50 ppm, preferably not more than 5 ppm and most preferably not more than 0.5 ppm by volume of such water vapor. The gas comprises at least 1 , usually 10 to 100 , preferably 15 to 50 by volume of oxygen. In the most preferred embodiment, the gas is ambient air which usually comprises about 21 by volume of oxygen. The gas is heated to the desired temperature and the solid porous carrier is then contacted with the heated gas. The manner of contacting the porous carrier with the heated gas or the apparatus in which such contact takes place are not critical but from a convenience standpoint, the carrier is preferably contacted with the heated air in a fluidized bed reactor. As the experimental data discussed in detail below will show the substitution of an oxygen containing gas for a substantially pure nitrogen gas used in prior art to heat the solid, porous carrier, unexpectedly produces a catalyst exhibiting at least about 25 improvement in productivity defined as grams of polymer produced per gram of catalyst in a gas phase reactor . The modified carrier heating procedure also unexpectedly produces a polymer product whose bulk density, defined as mass of granular polymer per unit volume, is at least about 5 , and usually about 11 , higher than that of similar catalysts prepared in an identical manner except for the step of heating the solid, porous carrier in a substantially pure nitrogen atmosphere. These two unexpected and surprising advantages substantially lower the overall cost of the polymer product. Chemically bound water, e.g., as represented by the presence of the OH groups on the carrier, should be present when the carrier is contacted with water reactive organomagnesium compounds in accordance with the present invention. Excess OH groups present on the carrier may, however, be removed by the above disclosed heating step. For example, a relatively small number of OH groups may be removed by sufficient heating at from l50⁰C to 25O⁰C, where as a relatively large number of OH groups may be removed by sufficient heating at at least 500, preferably from 750 C to 850 C. The amount of the hydroxyl groups in silica may be determined according to the method disclosed by J.B. Peri and A.L. Hensley, Jr., in While heating is the most preferred means of removing the OH groups inherently present in many carriers, such as silica, the OH groups may also be removed by other removal means, such as chemical means. For example, a desired proportion of OH groups may be reacted with a suitable chemical agent, such as a hydroxyl reactive aluminum compound, e.g., triethylaluminum. In said most preferred embodiment, the amorphous silica carrier is fluidized with air and heated at about 800 C for 8 l0 lhours to achieve the desired surface hydroxyl group concentration. After heating in said oxygen containing gas, the carrier material is treated with a solution of a solid organomagnesium composition in a first liquid, the organomagnesium composition being capable of reacting with a transition metal compound. The organomagnesium composition has the formula R Grignard reagents are described in Preferably, the carrier is treated with the aforementioned solution in such a manner that, after the treatment is completed, the carrier has magnesium incorporated into the pores thereof. A preferred means of accomplishing this result is by adding a porous carrier to the first liquid containing the dissolved organomagnesium composition of the formula R Organomagnesium compositions corresponding to those found in Grignard reagents are soluble in ethers, such as aliphatic ethers, such as diethyl ether, diisopropyl ether, dibutyl ether, dipentyl ether and ethyl n butyl ether and cyclic ethers, such as tetrahydrofuran and dioxane. It is thought that the reason for the ability of such ethers e.g., diethyl ether to solubilize the Grignard reagents e.g., C₂H₅MgCl is by virtue of the ability of the magnesium atom to act as a Lewis acid and to associate with at least one electron pair from the etheric oxygen which acts as a Lewis base. Such an association is represented as follows Thus, the first liquid containing the organomagnesium composition is usually an ether, preferably tetrahydrofuran. Although organomagnesium compounds of the formula RMgX, where R is as defined above for R and R and X is halogen, tend to be insoluble in non Lewis base solvents, such as hexane, they may be completely soluble in mixed solvent systems, such as hexane tetrahydrofuran, provided that a sufficient solubilizing amount of the Lewis base solvent is present. Thus, the carrier may be slurried in a non Lewis base co solvent and an organomagnesium compound may be added thereto in the form of an ether solution thereof. Suitable non Lewis base co solvents are also known in the art, see e.g., U.S. Patent No. 4,173,547, and include straight or branched saturated aliphatic hydrocarbons, such as butanes, pentanes, hexanes, heptanes, or commonly available mixtures thereof, generally known as gasoline, kerosene, gas, oil or other petroleum fractions. Further, such co solvents include cyclic hydrocarbons, such as cyclopentane, cyclohexane, methylcyclohexane, as well as aromatic hydrocarbons, such as benzene or halogen aromatic hydrocarbons, such as chlorobenzene. Such co solvents should preferably not contain groups which are reactive with the organomagnesium composition. A preferred co solvent is n hexane. The carrier material may also be incorporated with the organomagnesium composition by contacting the carrier material with a liquid containing the organomagnesium composition in a partially dissolved state. More particularly the carrier material may be slurried in one of the above exemplified non Lewis base co solvents, such as hexane, and a solution of the organomagnesium composition in a liquid, such as ether, may be added thereto, the amount of the liquid relative to the amount of co solvent being sufficient to only partially solubilize the organomagnesium composition. The non soluble portion of the organomagnesium composition may be in the form of a halomagnesium, e.g. dihalomagnesium, the amount of this non soluble halomagnesium being essentially equivalent to an amount of dialkylmagnesium remaining soluble in the solvent co solvent mixture. It is noted that if the organomagnesium composition is only sparingly soluble in the liquid, e.g., to the extent of about 1 percent or less, reactive organomagnesium composition which is consumed by reactive sites on the carrier will be replaced by further dissolution of undissolved organomagnesium composition by a mass action effect. Another example of a method of incorporating the organomagnesium composition onto the carrier material is to slurry the carrier material in a Lewis base solvent, such as an ether, and to add a solution of the organomagnesium composition in ether to this slurry. The addition of the organomagnesium ether solution to ether or co solvent carrier slurry usually takes place as a gradual continuous dropwise addition while the liquid medium of the slurry is maintained under reflux conditions. It is thought that, upon such addition, dissolved organomagnesium composition reacts with the carrier at the site of reactive OH groups as follows CARRIER OH C₂H₅MgCl CARRIER OMgCl C₂H₆ Another means of incorporating a magnesium composition onto the carrier is by precipitation from an organomagnesium composition from a liquid solvent. This precipitation may take place by any possible convenient means, including cooling of the solvent, using a sufficiently large amount of non solvent in the initial slurry to precipitate the magnesium compound s within the carrier, adding non solvent to the slurry to cause the precipitation of the magnesium compound s within the carrier, or stripping of solvent. In the case of a carrier slurry where the liquid solvent is essentially a hexane tetrahydrofuran solution of ethylmagnesium chloride, it is preferred to precipitate ethylmagnesium chloride onto the carrier by distillation of the solvent. In this regard, it is noted that tetrahydrofuran and hexane have nearly equivalent boiling points. Thus, it would be expected that during the course of distilling these solvents, the ratio of tetrahydrofuran to hexane in the liquid state would remain substantially constant. On the other hand, if the boiling point of the co solvent is significantly greater than the boiling point of the ether, then the relative concentration of the co solvent may increase appreciably as the distillation proceeds. In such a case, a non uniform precipitation of a magnesium compound may occur, such that any magnesium halide, e.g., magnesium dihalide, which may be present tends to precipitate before organomagnesium is precipitated. While the above exemplified methods of incorporating a solid reactive organomagnesium composition onto a carrier are preferred, it will be understood that alternative methods are available. For instance, it is possible to precipitate a dialkylmagnesium composition onto a carrier from a hydrocarbyl or halohydrocarbyl solvent containing essentially no ether. It is also possible to combine a carrier and a solid organomagnesium composition in the absence of a solvent by means of a ball milling device. However, the use of such a ball milling device is not desirable, particularly because it tends to be ineffective in incorporating a reactive magnesium compound into the pores of the carrier and also tends to disrupt the particle size and morphology of the carrier. In view of the above discussion, it will be understood that at least three possible types of magnesium containing compounds on the carrier can be obtained. The first type is one or more reaction products of the organomagnesium composition with reactive OH groups on the carrier. This product contains substantially no precipitated magnesium compound s . Examples of such reaction products are given in the aforementioned U.S. Patent Nos. 3,787,384 and 4,148,754. A second type of product is one or more magnesium compounds incorporated onto the carrier by means other than reaction between the organomagnesium composition and the reactive OH groups on the carrier. Such a product is obtained when an organomagnesium composition is precipitated onto a carrier having essentially no OH functionalities reactive with the organomagnesium composition. A third type of product contains both, one or more reaction product s of the organomagnesium composition with the carrier and precipitated magnesium compound s . Such a product is obtained when an excess of the organomagnesium composition, with respect to the OH groups on the carrier, is reacted with a carrier containing such reactive OH groups. Regardless of the possible mechanism of incorporating the magnesium containing compound onto the carrier, it is important that the number of moles of the organomagnesium composition in the solution used to contact the carrier is in excess of the number of moles of OH groups on the carrier. Preferably, the molar ratio of the organomagnesium composition in the solution to the hydroxyl groups on the carrier is from 1.1 to 3.5, and most preferably from 2.0 to 3.5. After contacting the amine with the organomagnesium composition, the first liquid is removed from the reaction vessel with care to assure that most if not all of the magnesium containing compound s is retained by the carrier. Suitable methods for removing the liquid include distillation, evaporation, decantation or centrifugation, with evaporation at about the boiling point of the liquid being the preferred method of liquid removal. It is also important that the carrier is not washed at this stage so that the excess of the magnesium containing compound or compounds, which did not react with the hydroxyl OH groups of the carrier, is retained on the carrier. After the liquid is removed, the resulting product is dried by any conventional means at, for example, ambient temperature to 80 C for 12 16 hours in a stream of dry nitrogen to produce a free flowing powder. Whether the magnesium containing compounds are in the form of a reaction product with the carrier or in the form of a non reacted precipitate, it is noted that the magnesium containing compounds may, optionally, be in the form of a complex with one or more electron donating agents i.e., Lewis bases . For example, when ethylmagnesium chloride is precipitated from a hexane tetrahydrofuran solution, each mole of the ethylmagnesium chloride precipitated may be complexed with approximately one mole of tetrahydrofuran. In more general terms, when an organomagnesium composition is precipitated from a solution containing an ether, the resulting precipitate may have molecules of this ether complexed with molecules of the organomagnesium composition. The amount of magnesium containing compound s which is incorporated onto the carrier should be sufficient to react with the transition metal compound in order to incorporate a catalytically effective amount of the transition metal on the carrier. Specifically, the carrier should have deposited area from 0.1 to 50, preferably 0.1 to 5 millimoles mmoles of magnesium per gram of carrier. The free flowing, magnesium compound containing carrier powder is then reacted with at least one transition metal compound dissolved in a second liquid. Suitable transition metal compounds are titanium compounds, e.g., tetravalent titanium compounds, such as TiCl₄, vanadium compounds, e.g., tetravalent vanadium compounds, and ziconium compounds, e.g., ZrCl₄, with tetravalent titanium compound being preferred. For the sake of simplification, the invention will be described below in detail only with respect to the embodiment utilizing a tetravalent titanium compound as the transition metal compound. It will be understood by those skilled in the art, however, that process and reaction conditions described below for this embodiment can be applied to the embodiments using other transition metals. The tetravalent titanium compound is soluble in the second liquid, while the treated carrier i.e., the free flowing powder , including the magnesium containing compound s , is insoluble therein. Thus, the reaction which takes place between the tetravalent titanium and the reactive magnesium containing compound s is a reaction of a solid with a liquid. It is further noted that the reacted titanium is insoluble in the liquid reaction medium. It is thought that the reaction which takes place between the magnesium compound, which is not a reaction product of the organomagnesium composition with the carrier, and the tetravalent titanium is essentially an oxidation reduction reaction, wherein the magnesium compound acts as a reducing agent for the tetravalent titanium. On the other hand, it is thought that the reaction which takes place between tetravalent titanium and the reaction product of the organomagnesium composition and the carrier containing reactive OH groups is not an oxidation reduction reaction. However, it is noted that both of the above mentioned reactions lead to the incorporation of titanium onto the carrier. Suitable tetravalent titanium compound or compounds for use in the present process include titanium halides, e.g., titanium tetrachloride, titanium tetrabromide, titanium alkoxides, wherein the alkoxide moiety has a branched or unbranched alkyl radical of 1 to 20 carbon atoms, preferably 1 to 6 carbon atoms. The most preferred titanium compound is titanium tetrachloride. Suitable materials for the second liquid are those in which the tetravalent titanium compound is at least partially soluble and which are liquid at reaction temperatures. Preferred materials are alkanes, such as hexane, n heptane, octane, nonane, and decane, although a variety of other materials including cycloalkanes, such as cyclohexane, aromatics, such as benzene and ethylbenzene, and halogenated and hydrogenated aromatics, such as chlorobenzene, ortho dichlorobenzene, can also be employed. The most preferred material is n heptane. Prior to use, the second liquid should be purified, such as by percolation through silica gel and or molecular sieves, to remove traces of water, oxygen, polar compounds, and other materials capable of adversely affecting catalyst activity. The magnesium containing dry, free flowing powder is reacted with the tetravalent titanium compound at a temperature and for a time sufficient to yield a solid catalyst component also referred to herein as a catalyst precursor . Temperatures at which this reaction is conducted conveniently range from 40 to 250 C, preferably, from 0 to 170 C, and most preferably from 25 to 100 C. Suitable reaction times range from 1 2 to 25 hours, with 1 2 to 6 hours being preferred. The reaction of the tetravalent titanium in the second liquid with the magnesium containing carrier material conveniently takes place by slurrying the solid carrier in a solution of the tetravalent titanium compound and heating the slurry to a suitable reaction temperature, e.g., to the reflux temperature of the second liquid at standard atmospheric pressure. The volume of the tetravalent titanium compound solution slurried with the magnesium containing powder is conveniently from 0.1 to 10 mls. per gram of the carrier, with the concentration of the titanium compound solution conveniently being from 0.1 to 5 Molar. In any event, it is preferable that the molar amount of the tetravalent titanium compound in the solution is in excess of the molar amount of the organomagnesium composition used to treat the carrier in the first step of the catalyst sythesis. Thus, the molar ratio of the tetravalent titanium to the organomagnesium composition is preferably from 1 to 10, preferably from 3 to 6. Unreacted titanium may be removed by any suitable separation techniques, such as decantation, filtration and or washing. After the reaction is complete, the slurry, formed by the reaction mixture, is filtered, washed with a suitable washing agent, e.g., an alkane, such as hexane, and dried in an inert atmosphere, e.g., nitrogen. The thus obtained catalyst precursor is then combined with a catalyst activator, in the manner and proportions discussed below, to form an active catalyst composition. The reaction of the carrier with the organomagnesium composition and subsequently with the transmition metal compound, and the step of combining the catalyst precursor with a catalyst activator, are conducted substantially in the absence of water, oxygen, and other catalyst poisons. Such catalyst poisons can be excluded during the aforementioned catalyst preparation steps by any well known methods, e.g., by carrying out the preparation under an atmosphere of nitrogen, argon or other inert gas. An inert gas purge can serve the dual purpose of excluding external contaminants during the preparation and removing undesirable reaction by products. The catalyst activator used herein may be any of the materials commonly employed for such purpose with olefin polymerization catalyst components containing compounds of the Group IVA, VA or VIA metals as defined in the Periodic Chart of the Elements, published by Fisher Scientific Company, Catalog Number 5 702 10 . Examples of such activators include Group IB, IIA, IIB, IIIB and IVB metal alkyls, hydrides, alkylhydrides, and alkylhalides, such as alkyllithium compounds, dialkylzinc compounds, trialkylboron compounds trialkylaluminum compounds, alkylaluminum halides and hydrides, and tetraalkylgermanium compounds. Mixtures of activators can also be employed. Specific examples of useful activators include n butyllithium, diethylzinc, di n propylzinc, triethylboron, triethylaluminum, triisobutylaluminum, tri n hexylaluminum, ethylaluminum dichloride, dibromide, and dihydride, isobutyl aluminum dichloride, dibromide, and dihydride, diethylaluminum chloride, bromide, and hydride, di n propylaluminum chloride, bromide, and hydride, diisobutylaluminum chloride, bromide, and hydride, tetramethylgermanium, and tetraethylgermanium. Preferred organometallic are the Group IIIB metal alkyls and dialkylhalides and trialkylhalides having 1 to 20 carbon atoms per alkyl radical. More preferably, the promoter is a trialkylaluminum compound having 1 to 6 carbon atoms per alkyl radical. The most preferred promoter is triethylaluminum TEAL. The catalyst may be activated in situ by adding the activator and catalyst precursor separately to the polymerization medium. It is also possible to combine the catalyst and activator before the introduction thereof into the polymerization medium, e.g., for up to 2 hours at a temperature of from 40 to 80 C. In a preferred embodiment, the activator is introduced into a fluidized bed polymerization process reactor simultaneously with, but separately from, the catalyst precursor at a rate necessary to provide a sufficient concentration of the activator to obtain an active polymerization catalyst composition. Normally, the ratio of the activator to the precursor, either in a slurry or in a fluidized bed reaction process is 0.3 to 1.5, depending on ethylene partial pressure in the reactor and other variables. Alpha olefins are preferably polymerized with the catalysts prepared according to the present invention in gas phase polymerization reactions, e.g., those taking place in stirred bed reactors and, especially, fluidized bed reactors. The molecular weight of the polymer may be controlled in known manner, e.g., by using hydrogen. With the catalysts produced according to the present invention, molecular weight may be suitably controlled with hydrogen when the polymerization is carried out at relatively low temperatures, e.g., from 30 to 105 C. This control of molecular weight may be evidenced by a measurable positive melt index of the polymer produced. The molecular weight distribution of the polymers prepared in the presence of the catalysts of the present invention, as measured by the melt flow ratio MFR values, varies from 26 to 50 for HDPE products having a density of 0.945 to 0.960, and a I₂ melt index of 0.1 to 100, and from 28 to 50 for LLDPE products having a density of 0.915 to 0.940, and an I₂ melt index of 0.1 to 100. As is known in the art, high MFR values are indicative of a relatively broad molecular weight distribution of the polymer. The catalysts prepared according to the present invention are highly active and may have an activity of at least 500 7,000 grams of polymer per gram of catalyst per 0.69 MPa 100 psi of ethylene in about 3 hours. The linear low density polyethylene polymers prepared in accordance with the present invention are polymers of ethylene alone or more preferably copolymers of ethylene with one or more C₃ C₁₀ alpha olefins. Thus, copolymers having two monomeric units are possible as well as terpolymers having three monomeric units. Particular examples of such polymers include ethylene 1 butene copolymers, ethylene 1 hexene copolymers, ethylene 4 methyl 1 pentene copolymers, ethylene 1 butene 1 hexene terpolymers, ethylene propylene 1 hexene terpolymers and ethylene propylene 1 butene terpolymers. When propylene is employed as a comonomer, the resulting linear low density polyethylene polymer preferably has at least one other alpha olefin comonomer having at least four carbon atoms in an amount of at least 1 percent by weight of the polymer. Accordingly, ethylene propylene copolymers are possible, but not preferred. The most preferred polymer is a copolymer of ethylene and 1 hexene. In order to achieve the desired density ranges in the copolymers, it may be necessary to copolymerize a sufficient amount of the comonomers having three or more carbon atoms with ethylene to achieve a level of 0 to 20 mol percent of the C₃ to C₈ comonomer in the copolymer. The amount of comonomer needed to achieve this result depends on the particular comonomer s employed. Thus, 1 hexene can be incorporated into an ethylene polymer chain in a gas phase reactor in amounts up to 20 percent by weight, preferably 5 to 12 percent by weight. A particularly desirable method for producing linear low density polyethylene polymers according to the present invention is in a fluid bed reactor. Such a reactor and means for operating same is described in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,011,382 and 4,302,566. The accompanying drawing is a diagrammatic illustration of a fluid bed system for producing polyethylene, such as linear low density polyethylene LLDPE . Referring to the drawing, the fluidized bed reaction system shown includes a reactor 10 comprising a reaction zone 12 and a velocity reduction zone 14. The reaction zone 12 comprises a bed of growing polymer particles, formed polymer particles and a minor amount of catalyst particles fluidized by the continuous flow of polymerizable and modifying gaseous components in the form of make up feed and recycle gas through the reaction zone. To maintain a viable fluidized bed, the mass gas flow rate through the bed should be above the minimum flow required for fluidization, and preferably from 1.5 to 10 times G It is important that the bed always contains polymer particles to prevent the formation of localized hot spots and to entrap and distribute the particulate catalyst throughout the reaction zone. On start up, the reaction zone is usually charged with a base of particulate polymer particles before gas flow is initiated. Such particles may be identical in nature to the polymer to be formed or different therefrom. When they are different, they are withdrawn with the desired formed polymer particles as the first product. Eventually, a fluidized bed of the desired polymer particles supplants the start up bed. The partially or completely activated catalyst used in the fluidized bed is preferably stored for service in a reservoir 32 under a blanket of a gas which is inert to the stored material, such as nitrogen or argon. Fluidization is achieved by a high rate of gas recycle to and through the bed, typically on the order of about 50 times the rate of feed of make up gas. The fluidized bed has the general appearance of a dense mass of viable particles in possible free vortex flow as created by the percolation of gas through the bed. The pressure drop through the bed is equal to or slightly greater than the weight of the bed divided by the cross sectional area. It is thus dependent on the geometry of the reactor. Make up gas is fed to the bed at a rate equal to the rate at which particulate polymer product is withdrawn. The composition of the make up gas is determined by a gas analyzer 16 positioned above the bed. The gas analyzer determines the composition of the gas being recycled and the composition of the make up gas is adjusted accordingly to maintain an essentially steady state gaseous composition within the reaction zone. To ensure complete fluidization, the recycle gas and, where desired, part of the make up gas are returned to the reactor at point 18 below the bed. A gas distribution plate 20 is positioned above the point of return to aid fluidization of the bed. The portion of the gas stream which does not react in the bed constitutes the recycle gas which is removed from the polymerization zone, preferably by passing it into a velocity reduction zone 14 above the bed where entrained particles are given an opportunity to return to the bed. Particle return may be aided by a cyclone 22 which may be part of the velocity reduction zone or exterior thereto. Where desired, the recycle gas may then be passed through a filter 24 designed to remove small particles at high gas flow rates to prevent dust from contacting heat transfer surfaces and compressor blades. The recycle gas is then compressed in a compressor 25 and then passed through a heat exchanger 26 wherein it is stripped of heat of reaction before it is returned to the bed. By constantly removing heat of reaction, no noticeable temperature gradient appears to exist within the upper portion of the bed. A temperature gradient will exist in the bottom of the bed in a layer of 15 to 30 cm 6 to 12 inches , between the temperature of the inlet gas and the temperature of the remainder of the bed. Thus, it has been observed that the bed acts to almost immediately adjust the temperature of the recycle gas above this bottom layer of the bed zone to make it conform to the temperature of the remainder of the bed, thereby maintaining itself at an essentially constant temperature under steady state conditions. The recycle gas is then returned to the reactor at its base 18 and to the fluidized bed through a distribution plate 20. The compressor 25 can also be placed upstream of the heat exchanger 26. The distribution plate 20 plays an important role in the operation of the reactor. The fluidized bed contains growing and formed particulate polymer particles as well as catalyst particles. As the polymer particles are hot and possibly active, they must be prevented from settling, for if a quiescent mass is allowed to exist, any active catalyst contained therein may continue to react and cause fusion. Diffusing recycle gas through the bed at a rate sufficient to maintain fluidization at the base of the bed is, therefore, important. The distribution plate 20 serves this purpose and may be a screen, slotted plate, perforated plate, a plate of the bubble cap type, or any similar plate known in the art. The elements of the plate may all be stationary, or the plate may be of the mobile type disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 3,298,792. Whatever the design of the plate, it must diffuse the recycle gas through the particles at the base of the bed to keep them in a fluidized condition, and also serve to support a quiescent bed of resin particles when the reactor is not in operation. The mobile elements of the plate may be used to dislodge any polymer particles entrapped in or on the plate. Hydrogen may be used as a chain transfer agent in the polymerization reaction of the present invention. The ratio hydrogen ethylene employed varies between 0 to 2.0 moles of hydrogen per mole of the ethylene monomer in the gas stream. Any gas inert to the catalyst and reactants can also be present in the gas stream. The activator compound is preferably added to the reaction system at the hottest portion of the gas which is usually downstream from heat exchanger 26. Thus, the activator may be fed into the gas recycle system from dispenser 27 through line 27A. The rate of feed of the activator compound, for a given desired content of the activator compound in the polymer product, is a function of the rate of product polymer production. The rate of the polymer production is controlled by the timer controlling two timed valves 36 and 38, as discussed in detail below. Zinc Zn compounds of the structure Zn R The fluid bed reactor is operated at a temperature below the sintering temperature of the polymer particles. For the production of ethylene 1 hexene copolymers an operating temperature of 30 to 115 C is preferred, and a temperature of 75 to 95 C is most preferred. Temperatures of 75 to 90 C are preferred to prepare polymer products having a density of 0.90 to 0.93 gms cc, temperatures of 85 to 100 C are preferred to prepare products having a density of 0.92 to 0.95 gms cc, and temperatures of 90 to 115 C are preferred to prepare products having a density of 0.94 to 0.96 gms cc. The fluid bed reactor is operated at pressures of up to about 1000 psi 6895 kPa , and is preferably operated at a pressure of from about 150 to 350 psi 1034 to 2413 kPa , with operation at the higher pressures in such ranges favoring heat transfer since an increase in pressure increases the unit volume heat capacity of the gas. The partially or completely activated catalyst is injected into the bed at a rate equal to its consumption at a point 30, which is above the distribution plate 20. Injecting the catalyst at a point above the distribution plate is important since, in view of the activity of the catalyst, injection of the fully activated catalyst into the area below the distribution plate may cause polymerization to begin in that area and eventually cause plugging of the distribution plate. Injection into the viable bed, instead, aids in distributing the catalyst throughout the bed and tends to preclude the formation of localized spots of high catalyst concentration which may result in the formation of hot spots . A gas which is inert to the catalyst, such as nitrogen or argon, is used to carry the partially or completely reduced precursor composition into the bed. The production rate of the bed is controlled by the rate of catalyst injection. The production rate may be increased by simply increasing the rate of catalyst injection and decreased by reducing the rate of catalyst injection. Since any change in the rate of catalyst injection will change the rate of generation of the heat of reaction, the temperature of the recycle gas is adjusted upwards or downwards to accommodate the change in the rate of heat generation. This ensures the maintenance of an essentially constant temperature in the bed. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that complete instrumentation of both the fluidized bed and the recycle gas cooling system is necessary to detect any temperature change in the bed to provide a means for a suitable adjustment in the temperature of the recycle gas. Under a given set of operating conditions, the fluidized bed is maintained at essentially a constant height by withdrawing a portion of the bed as product at a rate equal to the rate of formation of the particulate polymer product. Since the rate of heat generation is directly related to product formation, a measurement of the temperature rise of the gas across the reactor the difference between inlet gas temperature and exit gas temperature is determinative of the rate of particulate polymer formation at a constant gas velocity. The particulate polymer product is preferably continuously withdrawn at a point 34 at or close to the distribution plate 20 and in suspension with a portion of the gas stream which is vented before the particulates settle to preclude further polymerization and sintering when the particles reach their ultimate collection zone. The suspending gas may also be used to drive the product of one reactor to another reactor. The particulate polymer product is conveniently and preferably withdrawn through the sequential operation of a pair of timed valves 36 and 38 defining a segregation zone 40. While valve 38 is closed, valve 36 is opened to emit a plug of gas and product to the zone 40 between it and valve 36 which is then closed. Valve 38 is then opened to deliver the product to an external recovery zone. Valve 38 is then closed to await the next product recovery operation. Finally, the fluidized bed reactor is equipped with an adequate venting system to allow venting the bed during start up and shut down. The reactor does not require the use of stirring means and or wall scraping means. The highly active supported catalyst system of this invention yields a fluid bed product having a geometric mean particle size between 0.01 to 0.18 cm 0.005 to 0.07 inches and preferably 0.05 to 0.13 cm 0.02 to 0.05 inches The feed stream of a gaseous monomer, with or without inert gaseous diluents, is fed into the reactor at a space time rate of 32 to 160 kg hr m³ 2 to 10 pounds hour cubic foot of bed volume. The term virgin resin or polymer as used herein means polymer, in granular form, as it is recovered from the polymerization reactor. Catalysts produced according to the present invention are used to produce polymers having the desired combination of density and melt index by adjusting the gas phase partial pressure ratios in the reactor. Thus, e.g., the ratio of 1 hexene to ethylene primarily controls the product density, and the ratio of hydrogen to ethylene primarily controls the melt index. The catalysts are particularly suitable for the production of polymers used in manufacturing low density films and injection molding products. All procedures were carried out in glass or quartz equipment under purified nitrogen using pre dried nitrogen purged solvents. Davison Silica Gel, Grade 952, was activated by fluidizing with nitrogen, heating at 800 C for 9 hours and cooled to room temperature under nitrogen. 700 grams of the activated silica was introduced into a 10 liter cone bottomed glass reactor fitted with a stirrer, thermometer, addition nozzle, dry nitrogen line and a distillation head to remove solvent. The reactor was contained in a water jacket maintained at a controlled temperature. 7 liters of hexane was added to the silica while stirring under a slow nitrogen purge. The silica hexane slurry was brought to a reflux temperature of 70 C and 483 mls of a 2.0 A catalyst of the present invention was synthesized by following substantially the same preparative steps of Example 1, except that air was used in heating Davison Silica Gel, Grade 952, at 800 C for 9 hours. The catalysts of Examples 1 and 2 were used to polymerize ethylene and 1 hexene in a continuous fluidized bed reactor. The reaction zone contained approximately 50 kg of particulate resin in a volume of about 220 liters. The bed was fluidized with a gas flow of 40 to 50 cm sec. Bed temperature was maintained constant by controlling the temperature of the fluidizing gas at the reactor inlet designated by numeral 18 in Figure 1 . The feed rate of ethylene was maintained constant for each experiment. The partial pressure of ethylene was controlled by adjustments in the catalyst feed rate. Increases in the catalyst feed rate produced proportional increases in reaction rate which, for a fixed feed rate of ethylene, lowered the ethylene partial pressure. Decreases in the catalyst feed rate produced higher ethylene partial pressures. Gas phase partial pressure ratios of 1 hexene ethylene and hydrogen ethylene were continually monitored by a process gas chromatograph, and were controlled by adjustments in the feed ratio of 1 hexene and hydrogen, respectively. The catalyst precursor and the TEAL activator were introduced into the reactor through two separate inlet ports and the rate of the introduction thereof was controlled independently. The TEAL feed rate was determined by the desired level of TEAL in the polymer product 150 175 ppmw . The TEAL feed rate was adjusted as required to maintain an approximately constant ratio of TEAL feed to polymer production rate. The polymerization conditions were identical for both catalysts, and they are set forth below in Table 1. The hexene ethylene C₆ C₂ gas phase partial pressure ratio was adjusted as required to produce a polymer within the target 0.918 0.920 g cc density range. Typical C₆ C₂ values were 0.120 0.130. The catalyst of Example 2, made with air activated silica, gave suprisingly high productivity as compared to that of Example 1 5390 g polymer g of Example 2 catalyst, compared to 4150 g polymer g of Example 1 catalyst . Resin bulk density was also increased to 20.5 pounds per cubic foot 0.33 g cm³ from 17.8 pounds per cubic foot 0.28 g cm³ . Two more catalyst samples were prepared from the same batch of raw silica to determine if different silica samples used in the preceding Examples had any effect on the catalyst properties. One of the catalyst samples Example 4A was prepared with air activated silica, while the other with nitrogen activated silica Example 4B . Both catalyst samples were prepared by a procedure substantially the same as in Example 1. Each of the catalyst samples had a nominal magnesium loading of 1.27 mmoles per gram of dry silica. These catalysts were then tested under standardized reactor conditions of Table 1. The results, shown below in Table 2, confirmed that the air activation produced a catalyst with higher productivity and bulk density than the nitrogen activation. The following table shows the combined results from four catalyst tests. The average productivity of the air activated catalysts was 36 higher than that of their nitrogen equivalents. Bulk density was higher by an average of 9 . Other important variables in the reaction process include comonomer incorporation and TEAL response. Comonomer incorporation is a measure of the ability of the catalyst to incorporate hexene or other comonomer into the polymer chains. Catalysts with improved incorporation require lower C₆ C₂ gas phase ratios to reach a given low value of density. Table 2 shows the C₆ C₂ ratio required to reach 0.918 g cm³ density at 2 melt index MI₂ . The indicated values range from 0.123 to 0.133. Experimental error for these measurements is 6 , from which it will be seen that there is substantially no difference between the catalysts prepared with air and nitrogen activated silica 0.127 average air vs. 0.128 average N₂ . TEAL response of the catalysts made with air activated silica was not tested directly, but qualitatively the response seemed to be similar to that of the conventional catalysts of this type. Resin samples from each of the four catalyst tests were analyzed for film strength and other important product properties. The resin samples had densities between 0.918 and 0.920 g cc, and high load melt index HLMI values between 50 and 76. Product melt flow ratio MFR was essentially equal in all samples 34.3 36.2 , indicating no difference between catalysts prepared with air and N₂ activated silica in this respect Film strength was measured in Elmendorf Machine Direction MD and Transverse Direction TD tear, and Spencer impact tests. Multiple determinations were made for each sample. Table 3 shows the measured average values and standard deviations. Within experimental error, there is no apparent difference in film strength between catalysts prepared with air and nitrogen activated silica. The results indicate that air activation of the silica improves the catalyst productivity and bulk density without impairment of other properties. The higher productivity allows the polymerization reactor to operate at lower ethylene partial pressure for improved monomer efficiency. The increased bulk density gives a further improvement in monomer efficiency. For a given production rate from the reactor, the volume of resin discharged per unit time is reduced. This lowers the associated loss of ethylene and comonomer from the product discharge systems. The higher bulk density also allows a small 1 C increase in safe reactor operating temperature because of the higher mass of resin in the fluid bed available to absorb heat of reaction. The higher temperature enables a 3 4 increase in maximum, heat transfer limited, production rate from the reactor. Two more catalyst samples were prepared with a different type of silica Davison 955 than that used in the synthesis of the catalysts of Examples 1 2 and 4. The same batch of raw silica was used to prepare both catalyst samples. One of the catalyst samples Example 5A was prepared with air activated silica, while the other Example 5B with nitrogen activated silica. Both catalyst samples were prepared by a procedure substantially the same as that of Example 1. They were subsequently used to polymerize ethylene and 1 hexene in the fluid bed reactor of Example 3 under standardized reactor operating conditions of Table 2. Table 4 shows the test results.