# Spiro hydantoins for treatment of diabetic complications.

## Abstract
Spiro heteroazolone compounds of the formula The compounds have utility as aldose reductase inhibitors and as therapeutic agents for the treatment of complications arising from diabetes.

## Claims
CLAIMS for the Contracting States BE, CH, DE, FR GB, IT, LI, LU, NL, SE 1. A spiro heteroazolone compound of the formula EMI29.1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein A is methylene, hydroxymethylene, or methine Y is methylene, alkylmethylene, methine or alkylmethine, wherein alkyl in each instance has 1 4 carbon atoms with the proviso that when A is methine,Y is methine or alkylmethine Z is oxygen, sulfur, or nitrogen substituted by hydrogen Q is nitrogen or nitrogen N oxide and X is in the 3 position and is hydrogen, halo, alkyl, alkoxy having 1 4 carbon atoms, alkylthio, alkylsulfinyl, alkylsulfonyl, phenoxy, phenylthio, or nitro or X is in the 2 position and is hydrogen, alkyl, or alkoxy having 1 4 carbon atoms wherein alkyl in each instance has 1 4 carbon atoms with the proviso that when Ç is nitrogen N oxide, X is not alkylthio, alkylsulfinyl or phenylthio and with the further proviso that when Q is nitrogen and X is hydrogen and Z is nitrogen substituted by hydrogen, at least one of A and Y is always other than methylene. 2. A compound according to claim 1 wherein Z is nitrogen substituted by hydrogen and Q is nitrogen N oxide. 3. A compound according to claim 2 wherein A is methylene, Y is methylmethylene and X is hydrogen. 4. A compound according to claim 1 wherein Z is nitrogen substituted by hydrogen and Q is nitrogen. 5. A compound according to claim 4 wherein A is methine, Y is methylmethine and X is hydrogen. 6. A compound according to claim 4 wherein A is methylene or hydroxymethylene and Y is methylmethylene. 7. A compound according to claim 6 wherein A is methylene and X is hydrogen. 8. A compound according to claim 6 wherein A is methylene and X is chlorine. 9. A compound according to claim 6 wherein A is hydroxymethylene and X is hydrogen. 10. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound according to claim 1 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. 11. A compound of the formula I as defined in any one of the clams 1 to 9 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for use in medicine. CLAIMS for the Contracting State AT 1. A process for preparing a spiroheteroazolone compound of the formulaEMI31.1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein A is methylene, hydroxymethylene, or methine Y is methylene, alkylmethylene, methine or alkylmethine, wherein alkyl in each instance has 1 4 carbon atoms with the proviso that when A is methine, Y is methine or alkylmethine Z is oxygen, sulfur, or nitrogen substituted by hydrogen Q is nitrogen or nitrogen N oxide and X is in the 3 position and is hydrogen, halo, alkyl, alkoxy having 1 4 carbon atoms, alkylthio, alkylsulfinyl, alkylsulfonyl, phenoxy, phenylthio, or nitro or X is in the 2 position and is hydrogen, alkyl, or alkoxy having 1 4 carbon atoms wherein alkyl in each instance has 1 4 carbon atoms with the proviso that when Q is nitrogen N oxide,X is not alkylthio, alkylsulfinyl or phenylthio and with the further proviso that when Q is nitrogen and X is hydrogen and Z is nitrogen substitued by hydrogen, at least one of A and Y is always other than methylene, characterized by a condensing an appropriately substituted carbonyl ring compound of the formula EMI32.1 wherein X is as previously defined and R is hydrogen or alkyl having 1 4 carbon atoms, with an alkali metal cyanide and ammonium carbonate to form the corresponding spiro hydantoin final product of the formula EMI32.2 wherein Z is nitrogen substituted by hydrogen and X and R are each as previously defined and thereafter, if desired, b converting a compound of the formulaIA wherein Z is nitrogen substituted by hydrogen to a corresponding spiro heteroazolone final product of the formula IA wherein Z is oxygen or sulfur and further when required c oxidizing a compound of the formula IA wherein Z is as originally defined and X is not alkylthio, alkylsulfinyl or phenylthio to a corresponding compound of the formula EMI33.1 wherein X, Z and R are each as previously defined except that X is not alkylthio, alkylsulfinyl or phenylthio and when required d transforming a compound of the formula IB into a compound of the formulae EMI33.2 wherein X, Z and R are each as previously defined, except that X is not alkylthio, alkylsulfinyl or phenylthio, by reacting the formula IB compound with acetic anhydride in an acidic medium, followed by hydrolysis of the resulting acetate salt in an aqueous solvent at a pH of at least about pH 10 and thereafter, if desired, converting a compound of formulaIA, IB, IC or ID to a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, whereby a spiro heteroazolone compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically salt thereof is obtained. 2. A process as claimed in part a of claim 1, characterized by the fact that said condensation reaction is carried out by employing a slight molar excess of the alkali metal cyanide reagent with respect to the carbonyl ring compound starting material. 3. A process as claimed in part a of claim 1, characterized by the fact that said condensation reaction is carried out in an aqueous reaction inert polar organic solvent medium at a temperature that is in the range of from about 20 C. to about 120 C. 4. A process as claimed in claim 3, characterized by the fact that said organic solvent is a watermiscible lower alkanol. 5. The process as claim in part a of claim 1 wherein the spiro heteroazolone comopund prepared is rel 4,5 S 7 R spiro imidazolidine 4,51 61H quinolinel 2,5 dione 7 ,8 dihydro 7 methyl 6. A process as claimed in part c of claim 1, characterized by the fact that said oxidation reaction is carried out with 30 aqueous hydrogen peroxide in an acidic solvent at a temperature that is in the range of from about 0 C. to about 1000C, 7. The process as claimed in part c of claim 1 wherein the spiro heteroazolone compound prepared is rel 4,5 S 7 R spiro imidazolidine 4, 5 6 H quinoline 2,5 dione 7,8 dihydro 7 methyl 1 oxide. 8. A process as claimed in part d of claim 1, characterized by the fact that said transformation reaction is carried out with acetic anhydride in acetic acid or neat containing a trace of water at a temperature that is in the range of from about 600C. to about 95 C., followed by hydrolysis of the resulting acetate salt in water at a pH that is in the range of about pH 10 to about pH 14. 9. The process as claimed in part dj of claim 1 wherein the spiro heteroazolone compound prepared is rel 4,5 S 7 R, 8 S spiro imidazolidine 4,5 6 H quinoline 2,5 dione 7 ,8 dihydro 8 hydroxy 7 methyl. 10. The process as claimed in part d of claim 1 wherein the spiro heteroazolone compound prepared is rel 4,5 S spiro imidazolidine 4,5 6 H quinoline 2,5 dione 7 methyl. 11. A process for preparing a pharmaceutical composition characterised by mixing a compound of the formula I as defined in claim 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent or carrier.

## Description
SPIRO HETEROAZOLONES FOR TREATMENT OF DIABETIC COMPLICATIONS This invention relates to novel L o heteroazolones useful in the treatment of certain chronic complications arising from diabetes mellitus, such as diabetic cataracts, retinopathy and neuropathy, to pharmaceutical compositions containing such compounds and to a method of using these compounds. In the past, various attempts have been made to obtain more effective oral anti diabetic agents.Generally, these efforts have involved synthesis of new organic compounds, particularly sulfonylureas, and determination of their ability to substantially lower blood sugar levels when administered orally. However, little is known about the effect of organic compounds in preventing or alleviating chronic complications of diabetes, such as diabetic cataracts, neuropathy and retinopathy. U.S. Patent No. 3,821,383 discloses aldose reductase inhibitors like 1,3 dioxo lH benz d,e isoquinoline 2 3H acetic acid and derivatives thereof to be useful for the treatment of these conditions. U.S.Patent No. 4,117,230 teaches the use of certain hydantoins for treating complications of diabetes as aldose reductase inhibitors. Such aldose reductase inhibitors function by inhibiting the activity of the enzyme aldose reductase, which is primarily responsible for regulating the reduction of aldoses, such as glucose and galactose, to the corresponding polyols, such as sorbitol and galactitol, in humans and other animals. In this way, unwanted accumulations of galactitol in the lens of galactosemic subjects and of sorbitol in the lens, peripheral nervous cord and kiwleys of various diabetic subjects are prevented or reduced.Accordingly, such compounds are of therapeutic value as aldose reductase inhibitors for controlling certain chronic diabetic complications, including those of an ocular nature, since it is known in the art that the presence of polyols in the lens of the eye leads to cataract formation, with a concomitant loss of lens clarity. Carr et al., U.S. Patent No. 3,985,888, teach certain spiroalkanone imides and their use as sedatives.European Patent Application Publication No. 0065392 discloses certain spiro succinimide derivatives and their use as aldose reductase inhibitors. The compounds of the present invention are spiroheteroazolones of the formula EMI2.1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, whereinA is methylene, hydroxymethylene, or methine Y is methylene, alkylmethylene, methine or alkylmethine, wherein alkyl in each instance has 1 4 carbon atoms with the proviso that when A is methine,Y is methine or alkylmethine Z is oxygen, sulfur or nitrogen substituted by hydrogen Q is nitrogen or nitrogen N oxide and X is in the 3 position and is hydrogen, halo, alkyl, alkoxy having 1 4 carbon atoms, alkylthio, alkylsulfinyl, alkylsulfonyl, phenoxy, phenylthio, or nitro or X is in the 2 position and is hydrogen, alkyl or alkoxy having 1 4 carbon atoms wherein alkyl in each instance has 1 4 carbon atoms with the proviso that when Q is nitrogen N oxide, X is not alkylthio, alkylsufinyl or phenylthio and with the further proviso that when Q is nitrogen and X is hydrogen and Z is nitrogen substituted by hydrogen, at least one of A and Y is always other than methylene. Preferred compounds include those wherein Z is nitrogen substituted by hydrogen, and 0 is nitrogen or nitrogen N oxide. Further preferred are compounds whereinY is methylmethylene, A is methylene or hydroxymethylene and X is hydrogen or chloro. Also preferred are compounds wherein A is methine, Y is methylmethine and X is hydrogen. Both mixtures of optically active isomers and partially or completely optically resolved isomers of the compounds claimed herein are within the scope of the present invention. Also embraced by the present invention are pharmaceutical compositions comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent and a compound of formulaI. The present invention further comprises a method of treating a diabetic host for diabetes associated complications which comprises administering to the host an effective amount of a compound of formula I. The numbering system of the spiro compounds of formula I is as shown. EMI4.1 The compounds are spirofimidazolidine, oxazolidine or thiazolidine 4,5 6lH quinoline or quinoline N oxide 2,5 diones. The compounds can be substituted by X in the 2 or 3 positions and can be 7 ,8 dihydro derivatives. Diastereomers can be separated by methods known in the art, such as recrystallization with a suitable solvent like isopropanol, or trituration, for example, with an alcohol ether solvent such as isopropanol diethyl ether. The terms Rel and each mean a 1 1 racemic mixture of the two optically active enantiomers. When X is halo, halo includes fluoro, chloro, bromo and iodo. In the Synthetic Scheme a preparation of compounds of formula I is shown. Compounds of formulae I.A D are subclasses of compounds of formula I and are within the scope of the present invention. Starting diketone II wherein R is hydrogen or alkyl having 1 4 carbon atoms is reacted with ammonia in a refluxing solvent, such as benzene, which will remove the water of reaction as an azeotrope to obtain ketone eneamine III.When X is hydrogen, III is reacted with propynal in a polar aprotic organic solvent such as dimethylformamide at an initial temperature of between about 10 and 250C, preferably about OOC, followed by a period of heating of between about 15 and 90 minutes, preferably about 45 minutes, at a temperature of between about 1000 and 1530C, preferably about 1530C, to obtain tetrahydroquinoline derivative IV where X is hydrogen. When X is other than hydrogen, alkene aldehyde, V or VI, which are known compounds or can be prepared analogously to the known compounds, is reacted with ketone eneamine III in a polar, aprotic organic solvent such as dimethylformamide at between about 100 and 250C, followed by heating at between about 1000 and 1530C, to obtain tetrahydroquinoline derivative IV. SYNTHETIC SCHEME EMI6.1 SYNTHETIC SCHEME Continued EMI7.1 SYNTHETIC SCHEME Continued EMI8.1 SYNTHETIC SCHEME Continued EMI9.1 When Z is nitrogen substituted with hydrogen, the compound of formula IV can be reacted to obtain the corresponding compounds of formula IA, for example, by means of the methods described in U.S.Patent No. 4,117,230. A compound of formula IV is condensed with an alkali metal cyanide e.g., sodium cyanide or potassium cyanide and ammonium carbonate to form the desired ssiro hydantoin final product.This reaction is normally carried out in the presence of a reaction inert polar organic solvent medium in which both the reactants and reagents are mutually miscible. Preferred organic solvents include cyclic ethers such as dioxane and tetrahydrofuran, lower alkylene glycols like ethylene glycol and trimethylene glycol, water miscible lower alkianols such as methanol, ethanol and isopropanol, as well as N,Ndi lower alkyl lower alkenoamides like N,N dimethylformamide, N,N diethylformamide and N,N dimethylacetamide, etc. In general, the reaction is conducted at a temperature that is in the range of from about 200C. up to about 1200C. for a period of about two hours to about four days. Although the amount of reactant and reagents employed in the reaction can vary to some extent, it is preferable to employ at least a slight molar excess of the alkali metal cyanide reagent with respect to the carbonyl ring compound starting material in order to effect maximum yield.Upon completion of the reaction, the desired product is easily isolated in a conventional manner, e.g., by first diluting the reaction mixture with water boiling if necessary and then cooling the resultant aqueous solution to room temperature, followed by acidification to afford the spiro hydantoin compound in the form of a readily recoverable precipitate. When X is 2 alkoxy, the preferred method of preparing the corresponding compounds of formula I is according to the procedure of Dubas Sluyter et al.,Recueil Chim. Pays Bas, 91, IS7 160 1972 wherein a compound of formula III is reacted with an alkyl propiolate VIII wherein R1 is alkyl having 1 4 carbon atoms, preferably methyl, in a polar aprotic solvent such as dimethylformamide or carbitol at a temperature range of between about 1000 and 1530C., preferably about 153 C., to obtain the hydroxy compound of formula IVA. It is to be understood that the compound of IVA may also be present as the 2 pyridone isomer. The compound of formula IVA is reacted with an a water soluble inorganic silver salt such as silver nitrate and aqueous base such as potassium hydroxide at a pH of between about 9 and 12, preferably about 10.5, and at a temperature of between about 0. and 600C, preferably about 250C, to form a silver salt. The isolated silver salt is reacted with an alkyl iodide of the formula R2 I wherein R2 is alkyl having 1 4 carbon atoms at a temperature of between about 250 and 1000C, preferably 600C, to obtain the 2 alkoxy quinoline derivative IVB. The conversion to compounds of formula I continues according to the procedures set forth for a compound of formula Iv. When Z is oxygen, the compound of formula IV can be reacted to obtain the corresponding compounds of formula IA by means of the methods described, for example, in U.S. Patent Nosj 4,226,875 and 4,267,342. In one procedure, a compound of formula IV is reacted with a trialkylsilyl cyanide, wherein each alkyl has 1 4 carbon atoms and is preferably methyl, to form the corresponding cyano trialkylsilyloxy derivative. The reaction is conducted in the presence of a Lewis acid catalyst, such as a zinc halide, aluminum halide or boron trifluoride, with zinc iodide being a preferred catalyst.Temperatures in the range of about 0 C. to about SO0C. are generally employed, preferably about oO C. to 200C., in an inert organic solvent, typically an ether such as diethyl ether, dimethoxyethane, tetrahydrofuran, dioxane and the like, or a halohydrocarbon such as methylene chloride, chloroform and similar solvents. The resulting cyano trialkylsilyloxy derivative is then converted to an alkyl hydroxycarboximidate derivative by reaction with an acid in an alcohol solvent R4 OH. Suitable acids include hydrogen halides, especially hydrogen chloride.The alcohol R4 OH may be either a lower alkanol of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, benzyl alcohol or a substituted benzyl alcohol, the substituent including chloro, bromo, fluoro, hydroxy, alkyl of 1 to 3 carbon atoms and alkoxy of 1 to 3 carbon atoms. The reaction is generally conducted at temperatures in the range of about 100C. to about 250C., preferably at about OOC. to 100C. The hydroxy carboximidate derivative may be converted directly to the desired spircoxazolidin 2,5 dione IA by a number of methods. In all cases, a stiro 4 alkoxy oxazolin 2 one is an intermediate and can, if desired, be isolated from the reaction mixture. However, it is generally preferred to convert directly without such isolation of the intermediate. The hydroxy carboximidate may be reacted with phosgene in the presence of a base such as triethylamine, or other tri alkiylamines having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms in each alkyl group, in an inert organic solvent such as an ether, for example, diethyl ether, tetrahydrofuran, dimethoxyethane, dioxane and the like.The phosgene is generally bubbled through the reaction solution at a temperature of about 100C. to about 100C., for about 5 to 15 minutes and the solution is subsequently stirred at about 200C. to 50 C., preferably at about 250C., for about 12 to 48 hours1 when the siro oxazolin 2 one is predominantly formed. This intermediate may then be converted to the desired spiro oxazolidin 2,5 dione IA either by a further perfusion of phosgene at about 100C. to about 100C. for about 15 to 75 minutes, followed by stirring at room temperature for a further period of about 12 to 48 hours.Alternatively, an alkali metal carbonate, such as potassium or sodium carbonate, or ammonium carbonate can be added to a solution of the intermediate in, for example, aqueous tetrahydrofuran, and stirred at a temperature of about 150C. to about 500C., preferably at about 250C.,for a period of about 6 to 24 hours to form the desired sciro oxazolidin 2,5 dione IA. The desired sPiro oxazolidin 2,5 dion IA can also be prepared from the hydroxy carboximidate derivative by reaction with an alkyl haloformate, where the alkyl group is of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, a preferred reagent being ethyl chloroformate. The reaction is generally conducted by stirring the hydroxy carboximidate intermediate together with the alkyl haloformate in an inert solvent, such as pyridine, at a temperature of about 100C. to about 150C., preferably at about OOC., for a period of 30 minutes to about 2 hours, followed by heating the solution to a higher temperature, about SO0C. to about 1500C., preferably about 900C. to 1200C., for exampleJto reflux temperature in pyridine, for about 2 to about 6 hours.If desired, the spiro oxazolidin 2 one intermediate can be isolated from the initial reaction mixture after heating the solution for relatively shorter periods, for example,about 1 hour. The spiro oxazolidin 2,5 diones can also be prepared from the hydroxy carboximidate derivative by reaction with l,l carbonyl diimidazole, the reaction being generally conducted at a temperature of about 500C. to 1500C., preferably about 800C. to 1100C., neat or in an inert organic solvent such as dioxane, tetrahydrofuran, dimethoxyethane, diethyl ether and the like, for a period of about 12 to 36 hours. If desired, the intermediate spiro oxazolin 2 one can be obtained by heating for only a relatively short period of time, for exampleJabout 30 minutes to about 90 minutes. When Z is sulfur, the compounds of formula IA can be prepared by taking advantage of the hydroxy carboximidate derivatives previously discussed.These are converted to chlorocarboximidate derivatives by heating with thionyl chloride at between about 350C and the reflux temperature of about 790C for 1 3 hours, preferably about 2 hours. The e resulting chlorocarboximate derivatives are reacted with thiourea in a refluxing alkanol of 1 4 carbons, preferably ethanol, for about 15 90 minutes, preferably 30 minutes, followed by a brief aqueous hydrolysis either during column chromatography on acidic silica gel, or in aqueous tetrahydrofuran or dioxane containing about 0.1 to 6N hydrochloric acid at about 00 600C., preferably about 250C. The compound of formula IA can be oxidized to the compound of formula IB wherein Q is nitrogen Noxide by any procedure known in the art. In one procedure about 30 percent by volume aqueous hydrogen peroxide in an acidic solvent such as acetic acid at a temperature of between about 0 and 1000C., preferably about 850C. This oxidation procedure should be avoided when X is alkylthio, alkylsulfinyl or phenylthio in order to prevent oxidation of the sulfur moiety on X. The compound of formula IB can be transformed into a compound of formula IC or ID by the reaction with acetic anhydride in acetic acid or neat containing a trace of water at a temperature range of between about 600 and 950C., preferably about 950C. The resulting acetate salt VII is reacted at about 0 60 C., preferably about 250C., in an aqueous solvent such as water, aqueous tetrahydrofuran or aqueous dioxane at a pH of between about 10 and 14, preferably about 13, to obtain IC and ID. The relative amounts formed of these product in the basic aqueous solution depends upon the reaction temperature, pH and nature of the R substituent Because of the acidic hydrogen atom in the spiro5 membered heterocyclic ring of the compounds of formula I, salts may be formed with pharmaceutically acceptable cations by conventional methods.Thus, these salts may be readily prepared by treating the compound of formula I with an aqueous solution of the desired pharmaceutically acceptable cation and evaporating the resulting solution to dryness, preferably under reduced pressure. Alternatively, a lower alkyl alcohol solution of the compound of formula I may be mixed with an alkoxide of the desired cation and the resulting solution subsequently evaporated to dryness. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable cations for this purpose include, but are not limited to, alkali metal cations such as potassium and sodium, alkaline earth metal cations such as calcium and magnesium, ammonium, lower alkanolammonium and other cations derived from pharmaceutically acceptable organic amines which can form water soluble amine addition salts. Acid addition salts can be formed for compounds of formula I when Q is nitrogen. Suitable salts include those derived from hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid or methylsulfonic acid. These acid addition salts can be prepared by the addition of the appropriate strong acid to a lower alcoholic solution of a compound of formula I at a temperature of 00 600C., preferably 250C., followed by concentration to obtain the desired product.Alternatively, an aqueous slurry of a compound of formula I can be mixed with the appropriate strong acid at about 00 600C., preferably about 250C., followed by freeze drying and recrystallization from a lower alcohol. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts are those which do not cause unacceptable adverse reactions when administered. The novel compounds of formula I and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof are useful as inhibitors of the enzyme aldose reductase in the treatment of chronic complications of diabetes, such as diabetic cataracts, retinopathy and neuropathy.As used in the claims and specification hereof, treatment is meant to include both the prevention and alleviation of such conditions The compound may be administered to a subject in need of treatment by a variety of conventional routes of administration, including orally, parenterally and topically.In general, these compounds will be administered orally or parenterally at dosages between about 0.05 and 25 mg. kg. body weight of the subject to be treated per day, preferably from about 0.1 to 10 mg. kg. per day. However, some variation in dosage will necessarily occur depending on the condition of the subject being treated. The person responsible for administration will, in any event, determine the appropriate dose for the individual subject. The novel compounds of the invention may be administered alone or in combination with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, in either single or multiple doses. Suitable pharmaceutical carriers include inert solid diluents or fillers, sterile aqueous solutions and various organic solvents. The pharmaceutical compositions formed by combining the novel compounds of formula I and the pharmaceutically acceptable carriers are then readily administered in a variety of dosage forms such as tablets, powders, lozenges, syrups, injectable solutions and the like. These pharmaceutical compositions can, if desired, contain additional ingredients such as flavorings, binders, excipients and the like.Thus, for purposes of oral administration, tablets containing various excipients such as sodium citrate, calcium carbonate and calcium phosphate may be employed along with various disintegrants such as starch, alginic acid and certain complex silicates, together with binding agents such as polyvinylpyrrolidone, sucrose, gelatin and acacia.Additionally, lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate, sodium lauryl sulfate and talc are often useful for tabletting purposes. Solid compositions of a similar type may also be employed as fillers in soft and hard filled gelatin capsules. Preferred materials for this include lactose or milk sugar and high molecular weight polyethylene glycols. When aqueous suspensions or elixirs are desired for oral administration, the essential active ingredient therein may be combined with various sweetening or flavoring agents, coloring matter or dyes and, if desired, emulsifying or suspending agents, together with diluents such as water, ethanol, propylene glycol, glycerin and combinations thereof. For parenteral administration, solutions of the novel compound of formula I in sesame or peanut oil, aqueous propylene glycol, or in sterile aqueous solution may be employed. Such aqueous solutions should be suitably buffered if necessary and the liquid diluent first rendered isotonic with sufficient saline or glucose. These particular aqueous solutions are especially suitable for intravenous, intramuscular, subcutaneous and intraperitoneal administration. In this connection, the sterile aqueous media employed are all readily available by standard techniques known to those skilled in the art. Compounds of formula I may not only be advantageously employed for the preparation of aqueous pharmaceutical compositions for parenteral administration, as described above, but more particularly for the preparation of pharmaceutical compositions suitable for use as ophthalmic solutions. Such ophthalmic solutions are of principal interest for the treatment of diabetic cataracts by topical administration and the treatment of such conditions in this manner is a preferred embodiment of the present invention AlUS, for the treatment of diabetic cataracts the compounds of this invention are administered to the eye of the subject in need of treatment in the form of an ophthalmic preparation prepared in accordance with conventional pharmaceutical practice, see for example Remington sPharmaceutical Sciences , 15th Edition, pages 1488 to 1501 Mack Publishing Co., Easton, Pa. . The ophthalmic preparation will contain a compound of formula I, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in a concentration from about 0.01 to about 1 by weight, preferably from about 0.05 to about 0.5 , in a pharmaceutically acceptable solution, suspension or ointment.Some variation in concentration will necessarily occur, depending on the particular compound employed, the condition of the subject to be treated and the like, and the person responsible for treatment will determine the most suitable concentration for the individual subject. The ophthalmic preparation will preferably be in the form of a sterile aqueous solution containing, if desired, additional ingredients, for example preservatives, buffers, tonicity agents, antioxidants and stabilizers, nonionic wetting or clarifying agents, viscosity increasing agents and the like. Suitable preservatives include benzalkonium chloride, benzethonium chloride, chlorobutanol, thimerosal and the like.Suitable buffers include boric acid, sodium and potassium bicarbonate, sodium and potasssium borate, sodium and potassium carbonate, sodium acetate, sodium biphosphate and the like, in amounts sufficient to maintain the pH at between about 6 and 8, preferably between about 7 and 7.5. Suitable tonicity agents are dextran 40, dextran 70, dextrose, glycerin, potassium chloride, propylene glycol, sodium chloride, and the like, such that the sodium chloride equivalent of the ophthalmic solution is in the range 0.9 plus or minus 0.2 . Suitable antioxidants and stabilizers include sodium bisulfite, sodium metabisulfite, sodium thiosulfite, thiourea and the like. Suitable wetting and clarifying agents include polysorbate 80, polysorbate 20, poloxamer 282 and tyloxapol.Suitable viscosity increasing agents include dextran 40, dextran 70, gelatin, glycerin, hydroxyethylcellulose, hydroxmethylpropylcellulose, lanolin, methylcellulose, petrolatum, polyethylene glycol, polyvinyl alcohol, polyvinylpyrrolidone, carboxymethylcellulose and the like. The ophthalmic preparation will be administered topically to the eye of the subject in need of treatment by conventional methods, for example in the form of drops or by bathing the eye in the ophthalmic solution. The activity of the compounds of the present invention as agents for the control of chronic diabetic complications may be determined by a number of standard biological or pharmacological tests.Suitable tests include 1 measuring their ability to inhibit the enzyme activity of isolated aldose reductase 2 measuring their ability to reduce or inhibit sorbitol accumulation in the sciatic nerve and lens of acutely streptozotocinized, i.e.diabetic, rats 3 measuring their ability to reverse already elevated sorbitol levels in the sciatic nerve and lens of chronic streptozotocin induced diabetic rats 4 measuring their ability to prevent or inhibit galactitol formation in the lens of acutely galactosemic rats 5 measuring their ability to delay cataract formation and reduce the severity of lens opacities in chronic galactosemic rats 6 measuring their ability to prevent sorbitol accumulation and cataract formation in isolated rat lens incubated with glucose and 7 measuring their ability to reduce already elevated sorbitol levels in isolated rat lens incubated with glucose. The present invention is illustrated by the following examples. It will be understood, however, that the invention is not limited to the specific details of these examples. Proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectra NMR were measured at 250 MHz unless otherwise indicated for solutions in perdeuterodimethyl sulfoxide DMSO d6 and peak positions are expressed in parts per million ppm downfield from tetramethylsilane. The peak shapes are denoted as follows s, singlet d, doublet t, triplet q, quartet m, multiplet b, broad very, v. EXAMPLE 1 rel 4,5 S 7 R Spirotimidazolidine 4,5 6 H quYnoline 2,5 dione 7 ,8 dihydro 7 methyl To a solution of 13.3 g 0.138 mol of ammonium carbonate and 3.8 g 0.058 mol of potassium cyanide in 53 ml of water was added a solution of 4.75 g 0.029 mol of 7methyl 7,8 dihydro quinolin 5 6H one in 53 ml of ethanol.The reaction was heated at 650C for 72 hours. The solution was cooled and filtered and the filtrate was brought to pH 6.5 at which point a gummy solid precipitated. The solid was filtered and washed well with water. Recrystallization from ethanol gave 2.0 g of the title compound mp. 252 2540C as a mixture composed of 80 of the rel 7 R methyl diastereomer and 20 of the rel 7 S methyl diastereomer.NMR DMSO d6 b 11.03 vbs, lH 8.76 s, 0.8 x lH 8.47 m, lH 8.36 s, 0.2 x lH 7.68 m, 0.2 x lH 7.46 m, 0.8 xlH 7.27 m, lH 2.85 3 0 m, 1H 2.35 2.6 m, 1H 2.0 2.2 m, 1H 1.75 2.0 m, 0.8xlH 1.64 t, 0.2xlH 1.09 d, 0.8x3H and 1.05 d, 0.2x3H ppm. EXAMPLE 2 rel 4,5 S 7 S Spiro imidazolidine 4,5 6 H quinoline 2,5 dione 7 ,8 dihydro 7 methyl Concentration of the ethanol mother liquors from preparation of material enriched in the rel 4,5 S 7 R diastereomer of Example 1 and recrystallization from ethyl acetate gave 1.45 g of material which was recrystallized from water to give 860 mg of rel 4,5 S 7 S spiro imidazolidine 4,5 6 H quinoline 2,5 dione7 ,8 dihydro 7 methyl mp 145 1520C as a mixture of 90 rel 7 S methyl diastereomer and 10 rel 7 R methyl diastereomer.NMR DMSO d6 b 10.88 vb s, 1, NH 8.76 s, 0.lxl, NH 8.5 m,lH 8.36 s, 0.9x1,NH 7.68 m, 0.9xlH 7.46 m, 0.lxlH 7.27 m, lH 2.9 3.05 m,lH 2.5 2.75 m, lH 2.35 2.5 m,lH 2.05 2.15 bd, lH 1.75 1.95 m, 0.1 xlH 1.64 t, 0.9xlH , 1.09 d, 0.1x3H and 1.05 d, 0.9x3H ppm. EXAMPLE 3 rel 4,5 S 7 R Spirotimidazolidine 4,5 6 H quinoline 2.5 dione 7 ,8 dihydro 7 methyl l oxide 1.0 g 4.32 mmol of a 65 35 diastereomer mixture of rel 4,5 S 7 R and 4,5 S 7 S spiro imidazolidine 4,5 6 H quinoline 2,5 dione 7 ,8 dihydro 7 methyl was dissolved in a solution of 0.72 ml 7.0 mmol of 30 percent hydrogen peroxide in 3.0 ml glacial acetic acid and was heated at 850C for 15 hours. A test for peroxide with potassium iodide starch test paper showed no peroxide present. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo to an orange foam which was triturated with an ethyl acetate, diethyl ether, methanol mixture to afford a tan colored solid amounting to 650 mg mp 185 195 C of a 75 25 mixture of the 4,5 S 7 R to 4,5 S 7 S diastereomers.NMR DMSO d6 g 8.8 b s, lH 8.32 m, lH 7.35 m, lH 7.1 m, lH 3.05 3.35 m, H 1.8 2.6 m, H 1.15 d, 0.75x3H and 1.10 d, 0.25 x 3H ppm. EXAMPLE 4 rel 4,5 S 7 S Spiro imidazolidine 4,5 6 H quinoline 2,5 dione 7 ,8 dihydro 7 methyl 1 oxide Concentration of mother liquors from precipitation of the rel 4,5 S 7 R diastereomer of Example 3 and trituration with one to one diethyl ether hexane gave 60 mg of a 70 30 mixture of the 4,5 S 7 S to 4,5 S 7 R diastereomers mp 261 264eC NMR DMSo d6 d 8.82 s, 0.3xlH 8.46 s, 0.7xlH 8.3 t, lH 7.35 d, 0.7xlH 7.1 d, 0.3xlH 3.05 3.35 m,2H 1.5 2.3 m, 3R 1.15 d, 0.3x3H and 1.0 d, 0.7x3H ppm. EXAMPLE 5 rel 4,5 S 7 S, 8 R Spiro imidazolidine 4,5 6 H quinoline 2,5 dione 7 ,8 dihydro 8 hydroxy 7 methyl 2.7 g 11.68 mmol of a 65 35 diastereomer mixture of rel 4,5 S 7 R and 4,5 S 7 S spiro imidazolidine 4,5 6 H quinolinel 2,5 dione 7 ,8 dihydro 7 methyl was dissolved in a solution of 2.11 ml 20.5 mmol of 30 percent hydrogen peroxide in 8.1 ml of glacial acetic acid anc was heated at 900C for 17 hours. A test for peroxide with potassium iodide starch paper showed no peroxide present.The reaction was concentrated in vacuo to a yellow oil.Trituration with ethanol gave 3.35 g of a yellow foam after the solvent was removed in vacuo. To the foam 3.33 g was added 14 ml of acetic anhydride plus 2 drops of water and the reaction was stirred at 950C for 20 min to give a clear yellow solution. The reaction was concentrated in vacuo, ethanol was added and was reconcentrated in vacuo.Repetition of this procedure gave 3.8 g of a tan foam, which was slurried in 100 ml water and a 5 percent aqueous sodium hydroxide solution was added. The reaction mixture was stirred until a clear solution resulted. Thin layer chromatographic analysis 20 methanol, 80 chloroform eluent on silica gel plates showed the appearance of four new more polar spots visible using 254 nanometer ultraviolet light. The solution was neutralized with concentrated hydrochloric acid to pH 7, and was extracted with five 100 ml portions of ethyl acetate.After drying over anhydrous sodium sulfate, concentration in vacuo gave 1.84 g of a tan foam.Diastereomer Separation Products were separated by high pressure liquid chromatography using a Dupont 8800HPLC, Zorbax preparative silica gel column, linear gradient starting from 95 5 methylene chloride methanol to 85 15 methylene chloride methanol over 20 min., 20 ml min flow rate with ultraviolet detection at 254 nanometers. A portion of the crude product 1.33 g. was dissolved in 7 ml of 95 5 methylene chloride methanol.Injections of 0.5 to 1 0 ml were made. Peaks corresponding to 5 components were isolated which did not correspond to the elution order observed by thin layer chromatographic analysis. Peak 1 by high pressure liquid chromatography HPLC corresponded to the 2nd least polar spot by thin layer chromatography TIC . Peak 2 by HPLC corresponded to the 3rd least polar spot by TIC. Peak 3 by HPLC corresponded to the least polar spot by TIC Peak 4 by HPLC exhibited retention time identical with the 3rd least polar spot by TLC. Peak 5 by HPLC corresponded to the most polar spot by TLC. Material corresponding to HPLC peak 1 was recrystallized from methanol to give material with mp 239 242 C. Based on the following nuclear magnetic resonance spectral properties it was identified as rel 4,5 S 7 S, 8 R spirotimidazolidine 4,5 6 H quinoline 2,5 dione 7 ,8 dihydro 8 hydroxy 7 methyl. NMR DMSO d6 11.1 bs, 1, NH 8.86 s, 1, NH 8.61 m, 1H 7.50 m, lH 7.38 m,lH 5.35 bs, 1, OH 4.13 d, 1E, 8 H, D2O additionJ 7.5Hz 1.8 2.15 m, 3H and 1.15 d, 3H ppm.rel 4,5 S 7 R, 8 S spiro imidazolidine 4,5 6 H quinolinea 2,5 dione 7 ,8 dihydro 8 hydroxy 7 methyl Material corresponding to HPLC peak 2 was recrystallized from diethyl ether methanol ethanol mixture to give material with mp 236 239 C. Based on the following nuclear magnetic resonance spectral properties it was identified as the title compound. NMR DMSO d6 6 10.9 vbs, 1, NH 8.60 m, lH 8.36 s, 1, NH 7.61 m, lH 7.36 m, lH 5.28 bs, 1, OH 4.08 d, 1H, J 10Hz 2.5 m, lH 2.1 d, lH 1.87 t, 1H and 1.12 d,3H ppm.rel 4,5 S spiro imidazolidine 4,5 6 H quinoline 2,5 dione 7l methyl Material corresponding to HPLC peak 3 was recrystallized from a diethyl ether methanol ethanol mixture to give material with mp 228 231 C. Based on the following nuclear magnetic resonance spectral properties it was identified as the title compound. NMR DMSO d6 10 97 vbs, 1. NH 8.64 s, 1, NH 8.43 m, lH 7.46 m, lH 7.20 m, lH 5.39 s, 1, CH C 2.67 q, 2H and 1.94 s, 3H ppm.rel 4,5 S 7 R, 8 R spiro imidazolidine 4,5 6 H quinolie 2,5 dione 7 ,8 dihydro 8 hydroxy 7 methyl Material corresponding to HPLC peak 4 was recrystallized from a diethyl ether methanol mixture to give material with mp 252 2560C. Based on the following nuclear magnetic resonance spectral properties it was identified as the title compound. NMR DMSO d6 S 10.55 vbs, 1, NH 8.55 m, 1H 8.47 s, 1, NH 7.37 s, lH 5.42 m, 1, OH 4.44 bd, 1H, J 2.5Hz 2.5 m, lH 2.17 m, lH 1.77 m, lH and 0.96 d, 3H ppm.rel 4,5 S 7 S, 8 S spiro imidazolidine 4,5 6 H quinoline 2,5 dione 7 ,8 dihydro 8 hydroxy Material corresponding to HPLC peak 5 was recrystallized from diethyl ether to give material with mp 238 241 C. Based on the following nuclear magnetic resonance spectral properites it was identified as the title compound. NMR DMSO d6 11.06 vbs, 1, NH 8.71 s, 1, NH 8.56 m, lH 7.5 m, lH 7.37 m, lH 5.40 d, 1, OH 4.37 bs, 1H, 8 H, D2O addition, J 2.5Hz 2.32 t, lH 2.14 m, lH 1.59 d, lH and 1.06 d, 3H ppm. EXAMPLE 6Spiro imidazoline 4,5 6 H quinoline 2,5 dione 3 chloro 7 ,8 dihydro 7 methyl To a solution of 28.8 mg 0.44 mmol of potassium cyanide and 100 mg 1.04 mmol of ammonium carbonate in 4 ml of ethanol and 4 ml of water was added 40 mg 0.204 mmol of 3 chloro 7 methyl 7,8 dihydroquinolin 5 6H one and the reaction was stirred at 650C for 24 hours. An additional 101 mg of ammonium carbonate was added and heating was continued for 72 hours. An additional 101 mg of ammonium carbonate and 3 ml ethanol and 2 ml water, was added and heating was continued at 650C for 24 hours.An additional 101 mg of ammonium carbonate was added and heating was continued for 6 days. The ethanol was removed from the dark reaction solution by concentration in vacuo. The residue was diluted with water and the pH was brought to 7 with aqueous hydrochloric acid and the reaction was extracted with two 50 ml portions ethyl acetate. After drying over anhydrous sodium sulfate, the solution was concentrated in vacuo to 30 mg of a dark green solid. High resolution mass spectroscopic analysis confirmed the presence of the title compound.Calculated for C12H12N3O2Cl exact mass, me 265.0619.Found 265.0624. PREPARATION 3 Chloro 7 methyl 7,8 dihydroquinolin 5 6H one To 2.14 g 0.018 mol of 2 chloro 3 dimethylaminoacrolein in 20 ml dimethylformamide was added 2.25 g 0.018 mol of 3 amino 5 methyl cyclohex 2 enone. The reaction was heated at reflux for 40 hours. Most of the solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue was triturated with petroleum ether and concentrated in vacuo. This procedure was repeated three times. The resultant amber oil was triturated with 50 ml of ethyl acetate and filtered to remove an insoluble black powder. The ethyl acetate mother liquors were concentrated in vacuo to give 1.54 g of a dark brown oil. This material 0.93 g was subjected to column chromatography on silica gel using ethyl acetate as eluent. Material with Rf of 0.45 was isolated as a brown oil. The material was identified as largely containing the title compound based on the following spectral data. Mass spectrum base peak, m e 195, with ratio 195 197 of 3 1 corresponding to chlorine isotopes.NMR DMSO d6 8.78 d, 1H, J 2.5Hz 8.15 d, lH, J 2.5Hz 2.2 3.2 m, 5H and 1.14 d, 5H ppm.