# Composition and method for immobilizing cells and enzymes in a carrier matrix.

## Abstract
A method and composition for immobilizing biocatalytic entities suitable for ethanol fermentation processes includes mixing a biocatalytic entity with the reaction product of a homogeneous dispersion of an anionic form of alginate with polyethyleneimine, and combining the resultant biocatalystalginate polyethyleneimine dispersion with an oil phase to form beads. The beads are suitable for continuous ethanol fermentation processes.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of making a biocatalyst system which comprises the steps of mixing a biocatalyttic entity with the reaction product of a homogeneous dispersion of an anionic polysaccharide polymer with a cationic polymer to form a polymer biocatalyst dispersion and mixing said polymer biocatalyst dispersion with an oil phase to form beads. 2. The method of Claim 1 further comprising the step of adding a powder to the beads. 3. The method of Claim 2 wherein said powder includes water soluble and oil insoluble salts having multivalent cations. 4. The method of Claim 2 wherein said powder is selected from a group of powders including calcium chloride and aluminum sulfate. 5. The method of Claim 1 wherein said anionic polysaccharide polymer is an anionic form of alginate. 6. The method of Claim 1 wherein said cationic polymer is selected from the group including polyalkane amines and imines. 7. The method of Claim 1 wherein said cationic polymer is polyethyleneimine. 8. The method of Claim 1 wherein said biocatalytic entity is a yeast. 9. The method of Claim 1 wherein said step of mixing said polymer biocatalyst dispersion with an oil phase is performed in the presence of surfactants. 10. The method of Claim 1 wherein said polymer biocatalyst dispersion is triggered to gel into beads by adjusting the pH. 11. The method of Claim 10 wherein the pH of the polymer biocatalyst dispersion is above approximately 7.5 and lowered after mixing with the oil phase to approximately 6. 12. The method of Claim 9 wherein said surfactants are selected from the group including water insoluble surfactants and water soluble surfactants. 13. The method of Claim 12 wherein the relative amounts of water insoluble surfactants and water soluble surfactants are varied to adjust bead size. 14. A method of producing ethanol which comprises the steps of contacting a fermentable substrate with a biocatalytic immobilized entity and recovering ethanol therefrom said immobilized entity having been produced by the method of Claim 1. 15. A biocatalyst system comprising a mixture of a biocatalytic entity with the reaction product of a homogeneous dispersion of an anionic polysaccharide polymer with a cationic polymer forming a gelled matrix. 16. The biocatalyst system of Claim 15 wherein said gelled matrix is in the form of beads. 17. The biocatalyst system of Claim 15 wherein said anionic polysaccharide is an anionic form of alginate. 18. The biocatalyst system of Claim 15 wherein said cationic polymer is polyethyleneimine. 19. The biocatalyst system of Claim 15 wherein said biocatalytic entity is a yeast.

## Description
COMPOSITION AND METHOD FOR IMMOBILIZING CELLS AND ENZYMES IN A CARRIER MATRIX BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention pertains to a composition and method for immobilizing microorganisms, catalysts, and enzymes in a gel including an anionic polysaccharide polymer and a cationic polymer, homogeneously dispersed and bonded, to form a matrix structure. In particular, the invention pertains to a method and composition in which an anionic form of alginate, polyethyleneimine, and yeast are homogeneously dispersed in an aqueous system, and thereafter mixed with an oil phase to form beads. Recent interest has turned to increasing the productivity of bioconversion processes by utilizing biocatalyst systems in which cells are immobilized. In the context of the present application, the term biocatalyst is understood to mean a biological system including enzymes or whole cellular microorganisms fixed through a macroscopic carrier. As used herein, the term biocatalytic entity refers to enzymes or whole cellular microorganisms which are to be incorporated into a biocatalyst. High cell immobilization costs, limited cell service life, loss of catalytic activity and changes in biological behavior of immobilized cells have been major problems which have hindered widespread commercial use of proposed biocatalyst systems. Cu rrently, there are two techniques for immobilizing cells. One technique involves the use of solid supports.Typically, cells are either cultured or adhered to the surface of the solid support. Wood chips, porous briskets, Rasching rings, PVC flakes, glass fibers, porous glass, and clays have been utilized to obtain surface cultures for the production of ethanol. The use of solid supports has been limited by the problems of cell washout, limited cell loading capability, and a high rate of free cell production in the broth. Another technique for cell immobilization has been to immobilize cells within a gel matrix usually in the form of beads or pellets. The beads or pellets present a large surface area to mediums in which the beads or pellets are suspended and allow nutrients and reaction products to diffuse into or out of a small cross sectional area. A common encapsulation system has utilized polyacrylamide gels. The usefulness of gels made out of polyacrylamide has been limited by the toxicity of the monomer substance and the brittleness of the gels.Hydrogels, derived from marine plants, are considered to be more desirable as a live cell carrier. Hydrogels inertness, high water holding capacity, permeability, ease of forming and abundance are desirable features for immobilizing cells for bioconversion processes. Examples of hydrogels which have been studied extensively include alginate, carrageenan, and agar. A typical example of forming gel beads utilizing hydrogels includes mixing an aliquot of yeast slurry in a hydrogel solution at 50 0C. The solution is then dripped into a cold organic solvent which reacts with the hydrogel to cause the hydrogel to gel into a bead like structure. See K. Toda and M. Shoda, Biotechnology andBioengineering, Vol. 17, p. 481 1975 . M. Wada, J. Kato, and I. Chibata, report in an article entitled A New Immobilization of MicrobialCells, European Journal of Applied Microbiology, Biotechnology, Vol. 8, pp. 241 247 1979 , that beads containing yeast cells have been prepared by dripping a 4 carrageenan solution containing yeast cells into a 2 potassium chloride solution at an ambient temperature.Similarly, T. Shiotani and T. Yamane report in an article entitled A Horizontal Packed Bed Bioreactor to Reduce CO2 Gas Holdup in the Continuous Production of Ethanol byImmobilized Yeast Cells, European Journal of Applied Microbiology, Biotechnology, Vol. 13 2 , pp. 96 101 1981 that yeast alginate beads were prepared from a sodium alginate mixture dripped into calcium chloride solution. I. Veliky and R. Williams report in an article entitled The Production of Ethanol by Saccharomyces Cerevisiae Immobilized in Polycatiqn Stabilized Calcium Alginate Gels, Biotech. Lett., Vol. 3, pp. 275 280 1981 , the successful immobilization of microorganisms in a calcium alginate matrix which was thereafter further surface treated with polyethyleneimine hereinafter referred to as PEI . U.S. Patent 4,355,105 to Lantero entitled Glutaraldehyde Polyethyleneimine Immobilization of Whole Microbial Cells discloses that cells can be immobilized by providing an aqueous medium containing whole cells of a microorganism and adding glutaraldehyde to the aqueous medium to form a reaction product with the microorganism.Thereafter, PEI is added to the aqueous medium to flocculate the reaction product. The reaction product is recovered from the aqueous medium as a cake or pellet which can be further processed into particles or other forms. U.S. Patent 4,347,320 to Borglum entitled Immobilization of Microorganisms in Gelled Carrageenan discloses a method of immobilizing microorganisms by mixing the microorganisms with an aqueous solution of kappa carrageenan. The microorganisms and kappa carrageenan are gelled by forming droplets through a nozzle and contacting the droplets with an aqueous solution containing a gelling agent including PEI. The resultant beads have a surface skin of PEI. Suhaila and Salleh, in an article entitled PhysicalProperties of Polyethyleneimine Alginate Gels, Biotechnology Letters, Vol. 4, No 9, pp. 66 614 1982 discuss the properties of PEI propylene glycol alginate gels as compared to gelatin propylene glycol alginate gels hereinafter propylene glycol alginate will be referred to as PGA . The authors found that PEI PGA gels are much more brittle than gelatin PGA gels but maintain their integrity to a greater extent in acidic conditions and are stable to heat and freezing. While the authors suggest that PEI PGA gels may be useful for enzyme cell immobilization within certain limitations inherent in the brittlePEI PGA structure, there is no disclosure of an anionic polysaccharide and a cationic polymer homogeneously dispersed and bonded to form a matrix. An article in Newswatch, p. 3, March 17, 1984, entitled Crab Chitosan Microbeads Entrap Cells in One Step,Challenge Damon Encapcel , reports that Chokyun Rha of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology has produced globular spheres of 10 microns to 5 millimeters in size with controlled porosity using chitosan a dissolved deacetylated chitin and alginate. The article further reports that cells or enzymes are suspended in a cat ionic chitosan solution. Droplets of the cell chitosan mixture are added to an anionic solution of alginate or another polymer to form membranes which encapsulate a volume of the liquid chitosan cell mixture. The membranes can be strengthened by cross linking with divalent ions or additional polymer layers. The capsules can withstand a 2,000 G force and undergo deformations of up to 90 without rupture. To the best of our knowledge, these proposals have not led to biocatalytic systems utilizing beads having sufficient strength and resiliency while capable of maintaining cell viability. Materials such as glutaraldehyde and PEI have not found widespread use in biocatalytic gel matrix systems. Generally, the PEI and glutaraldehyde in solution have fungicidal and bactericidal action which greatly limits their use for incorporation into matrixes.Specifically, PEI is ionic in solution and may cause cell lysis. Accordingly, one would not predict that homogeneous incorporation of PEI within a matrix system would result in live cell systems having catalytic activity. In the past, PEI has been used primarily to impart rigidity to beads. The PEI would be applied to the bead structure as a coating or skin such that the toxic effects of PEI would not damage the biocatalyst. Rigid or hard beads were considered better suited for packing in a column. However, rigid or hardened beads are unable to accommodate cellular growth and are incapable of venting gaseous metabolic by products. In fermentation processes which extend over a long period of time, rigid bead structures rupture and release the biocatalyst from the gel matrix. The prior art does not suggest a practical means for obtaining beads having a predetermined substantially uniform size. Bead size is an important consideration in biocatalytic systems. Cells incorporated within the interior of large beads cannot proliferate or contribute to fermentation processes due to the cell s inability to obtain necessary nutrients through the matrix structure.Only cells incorporated near the surface of the gel s matrix proliferate and actively contribute to fermentation processes. Gel matrixes comprising hydrogel which utilize calcium for the formation of a cross linking structure eventually dissolve releasing the biocatalyst. Microorganisms generally utilize the calcium within the matrix structure for their own purposes, and calcium is released from the matrix structure as part of an ongoing release upon dissolution of the bead components within an aqueous medium. DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION It is an object of the present invention to present an improved biocatalyst system which is capable of continuous bioconversion processes on a large scale. Other objects, features, and advantages of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the following more detailed description of preferred embodiments, which exemplifies the present invention. Briefly, an embodiment of the present invention includes a biocatalytic system comprising a dispersion of a biocatalytic entity within the reaction product of a homogeneous mixture of an anionic polysaccharide polymer and a cationic polymer. Preferred cationic polymers include polyalkene amines or imines and, in particular, PEI. Other cationic polymers may include, by way of example without limitation, polyepihalohydrin amines and imines, polypropylene amines and imines, polylysine, polycationic polypeptides and others. Surprisingly and unexpectedly, cationic polymers such as PEI, which are normally toxic to fungi and bacteria, are neutralized and rendered non toxic to yeast when uniformly dispersed with an anionic polysaccharide polymer such as sodium alginate. Yeast incorporated within an alginate PEI matrix remains viable. It is further believed that the PEI incorporated within thePEI alginate matrix contributes to asepsis of the reactor vessel reducing the possibility of contamination. Preferred anionic polysaccharide polymers include alkali metal or ammonium salts of alginate such as sodium alginate, potassium alginate, and ammonium alginate.Other anionic polysaccharide polymers may include kappacarrageenan, agar carboxymethylcellulose and generally any polysaccharide containing sulfonic or carboxylic groups. A preferred embodiment includes a biocatalytic entity in the form of a yeast. Other biocatalytic entities may include, by way of example without limitation, molds and algae. The present invention may have particular commercial importance for yeast including Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Kluyveromyces fragilis, Candida utilis,Saccharomycopsis lipolytica, Eremothecium ashbyi and others. Molds of interest include Pennicillium roquefortii, Pennicillium camembertii, Penicillium chrysogenum, Aspergillus oryzae, Aspergillus niger, Rhizopus nigricans, Mucor, Monascus purpurea, Trichoderma reesii,Endothia parasitica, Cephalosporium acremonium, Blakeslea trispora and others. A further embodiment of the present invention includes a method of making a biocatalytic system which includes the step of preparing a mixture of a biocatalytic entity with the reaction product of a homogeneous mixture of an anionic polysaccharide polymer and a cationic polymer, to form a polymer biocatalyst dispersion. Next, the polymer biocatalyst dispersion is mixed with an oil phase to form beads. Preferably, the polymer biocatalyst dispersion is mixed with an oil phase in the presence of surfactants which include water insoluble surfactants and water soluble surfactants. The relative concentrations of the surfactants determine the size of the beads. The present method produces beads of uniform size and shape. The beads are gelled and dehydrated by subjecting the beads to a water soluble oil insoluble curing powder.Preferably, the powder includes a salt of a multivalent cation, and, in particular, calcium chloride or aluminum sulfate. However, other multivalent cationic salts ofGroup II or III metals may also be used with due consideration of their potential toxicity to microorganisms. The present invention is well suited for continuous ethanol or organic acid production in a column reactor.The present invention for producing ethanol obtained a production rate of 86 grams per liter per hour g l h as applied to glucose conversio n in a column reactor. In a column reactor the ethanol concentration. of the product was 5 after a single pass at 220C. The present invention provides rapid ethanol production, with a rate 80 fold faster than the rate of a conventional batch fermenter. A 16. 490 glucose feed was nearly completely converted to ethanol with a 47 yield based on a glucose feed at a space velocity of 0.53 h 1. Thus, the present invention permits the production of ethanol at 92 of the theoretical yield. In embodiments of the present invention employingPEI, maintenance of an aseptic operation was possible for a prolonged period without sterilizing the reactor system due to the bactericidal action of PEI. Embodiments of the present invention, including alginate PEI yeast beads, could withstand vigorous gas action in a digestive environment of an alcohol fermenter. In comparison, beads made of alginate without PEI easily became ruptured, deformed, and partially liquefied, releasing the biocatalyst. Whereas much of the prior art has suggested means for hardening and strengthening biocatalytic beads, the present invention includes beads having substantial resiliency. Surprisingly and unexpectedly, the incorporation of PEI throughout the matrix structure provides beads which can accommodate expansion due to yeast growth within the matrix and allows venting of metabolic gases. In the past, PEI has been used as a hardening agent.Matrixes incorporating PEI have been described as rigid and brittle in the past. The present invention includes an alginate PEI yeast matrix in a bead like structure which allows for an increase in weight of an individual bead of 600 and an increase in diameter of about 90 . The carrier matrix of the present invention is capable of withstanding phosphate and high concentrations of ethanol which would normally be encountered during ethanol fermentation processes. In operation in a vigorous environment, beads made in accordance with the present invention may remain viable for one month. Most calcium alginate yeast beads, common in the prior art, would dissolve or rupture in three to five days. Beads made in accordance with the present invention can be stored in a 1 calcium chloride solution or even tap water in a closed container at moderately cool temperatures. PEI effectively prevents rotting with the exception of fungi. If stored at 4 0C, beads of the present invention will store indefinitely. In order to disclose more clearly the features and advantages of the present invention, the following summary of experimental examples illustrating the invention is given. It should be understood, however, that the summary is done solely by way of example and is intended neither to delineate the scope of the invention nor limit the ambit of the appended claims. The present invention will be discussed in terms of a biocatalyst system for the production of ethanol with the understanding that the present invention has applications in other bioconversion systems as well.EXAMPLE I The PEI referred to in the following discussion was obtained from the Aldrich Chemical Company of Milwaukee,Wisconsin. The PEI utilized was of an average molecular weight between 50,000 and 100,000 grams per mole. The yeast used in the following discussion was a dehydratedBaker s yeast obtained from Universal Food Corporation ofMilwaukee, Wisconsin. The sodium alginate was derived from Macrocystis pyrifera, Type IV, obtained from theSigma Chemical Company of St. Louis, Missouri. The surfactants include dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate, marketed under the trade name of Triton GR 7M, and sorbitan monooleate, marketed under the trade name of Span 80. he corn oil referred to was of food grade. The kerosene was marketed under the designation F 158301 by Quimasx, Inc.of Lemont, Illinois. All inorganic substances, including calcium chloride, were of analytical grade. Dehydrated Baker s yeast was rehydrated with distilled water to make 150 ml of a 20 yeast slurry and kept at 40C for one to two hours prior to use. A 2 Ï sodium alginate dispersion was prepared in a Waring blender, and the pH of the dispersion adjusted to 7.0.The alginate dispersion was kept in an airtight container to prevent gel thickening by carbon dioxide absorption.A 0.3 ml aliquot of 50 PEI aqueous solution was dispersed homogeneously into the 150 ml of the 2 sodium alginate dispersion by vigorously mixing in the Waring blender. Vigorous mixing was necessary to prevent local alginate precipitation caused by the PEI. The PEI alginate dispersion had a resultant PEI concentration of approximately 0.1 . The PEI alginate dispersion was combined with the yeast suspension and adjusted with additional water to produce 300 ml of a yeast polymer dispersion comprised of Yeast dry weight 30g Sodium alginate 3.0g PEI 0.15g Water 266.8g The order of mixing alginate, PEI, and yeast is important. PEI is normally toxic to yeast due to its charged nature. Mixing the PEI with alginate prior to combining with the yeast neutralizes the toxic effects ofPEI. A single stage pelletizing apparatus was assembled which included a two liter round flask, an overhead mixer with a half moon shaped blade and a variable autotransformer. With gentle agitation, 400 ml of corn oil and 200 ml of kerosene were introduced into the flask.Between 1 and 15 ml of the oil phase surfactant were introduced into the flask and mixed with gentle agitation. Three hundred milliliters of the yeast polymer dispersion were added to the oil phase within the flask. With continued gentle agitation, the yeast polymer dispersion further dispersed within the oil phase, and after 5 to 10 minutes the yeast polymer dispersion formed tiny bead like spheres. Fine calcium chloride powder was prepared and 7 to 50 grams were added to the pelletization flask. The curing was maintained for 10 to 20 minutes under agitation until the beads became completely gelled. The fine calcium chloride powder acts as a matrix gelling agent, an anti adhering agent, and a dehydration agent. When calcium chloride powder is replaced by calcium chloride solution, the yeast polymer dispersion rapidly coagulates and sinks to the bottom of the container forming a thick viscous batter. The calcium powder protected the individual beads from adhering to one another until the individual bead surfaces became completely hardened. The amount of calcium chloride powder added to the pelletization bath determined the degree of dehydration of the resulting beads. Where the total solid contents of the two different batches of beads, being the sum of calcium alginate and dry yeast added to each batch, remained constant, 10g of calcium chloride powder yielded approximately 150g of beads, whereas only 90g of beads were obtained when the calcium chloride was increased to 40g. As soon as the agitation had stopped, the yeast beads and aqueous solution separated from the floating oil phase. The beads were harvested and washed with water. The calcium chloride powder dissolved in the bead making process. Insoluble anti adhering agents, such as bentonite or talcum powder, will contaminate the beads and will be incorporated into the bead matrix. The beads formed with calcium chloride powder were smooth and spherical. Aluminum sulfate may be used in conjunction with, or as a replacement for,calcium chloride as a gelling, anti adhering and dehydration agent. However, the use of aluminum sulfate resulted in beads which have a lumpy or textured appearance. Other multivalent cation salts of Group II or Group III metals which are also water soluble and oi 1nsoiuble may also be used however, many are considered toxic and may reduce the potency or activity of the cells immobilized within the beads. Surfactants play a decisive role in determining the size of the resulting beads. A very wide range of bead sizes, 20 microns to 1500 microns, can be obtained using in combination or separately two surfactants, dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate and sorbitan monooleate, in different ratios. Thus, combining 169 of dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate per liter of oil phase and omitting the sorbitan monooleate produced beads having a diameter of 20 microns. Utilizing 1.0g of sorbitan monooleate per liter of oil phase and omitting the dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate produced beads having a median bead diameter of 1500 microns. The following Table I summarizes the surfactant formulation which was employed for various bead sizes. TABLE I Median bead Surfactant formulation diameter in microns g l in oil phase DSS 16 20 SM 0 DSS 10 70 SM 25 DSS 5 150 SM 25 DSS 2 250 SM 17 DSS 0 500 SM 17 DSS 0 1500 SM 1 A screen analysis of the PEI alginate yeast beads formed in the presence of sodium monooleate in a concentration of approximately 1 g l oil phase and 10.0g calcium chloride revealed a narrow range of bead sizes as set forth below in Table II. TABLE IIU.S. standard Bead Yield from mesh no. diameter 300g slurry 12 1.7mm 4.5g 3 12 24 0.7 1.7mm 135.lg 92 24 48 0.3 0.7mm 7.4g 5 48 0.3mm 0g 0 Total 147.0g 100A yield of 147.0g beads was obtained from 300 ml of the yeast polymer mixture. It should be noted that in the absence of PEI the yeast alginate dispersion is extremely difficult to control during the bead forming process due to adhesions.The resulting bead like structures are irregular, fib rous, or adhere in clumps. A screen analysis of a calcium alginate matrix in the absence of PEI revealed a wide range of bead sizes as set forth below in TableIII. TABLE IIIU.S. standard Bead Yield from mesh no. diameter 3009 slurry 12 1.7mm 55.5g 37 12 24 0.7 1.7mm 39.0g 26 24 48 0.3 0.7mm 33.lg 22 48 0.3mm 22.4g 15Total 150.0g 100 Whereas 92 of the beads formed in the PEI modified polymer yeast compositions fell within a narrow range of 0.7 to 1.7mm, the alginate yeast composition, which was unmodified with PEI, had a wide dispersion extending from less than 0.3 to greater than 1.7mm. Beads larger than 1500 microns were made by adjusting the pH of the PEI, alginate, and yeast dispersion during the gelling process. For large beads, ranging in size from 0.5 to 3.0mm in diameter, the pH of the PEI, alginate, and yeast mixture was maintained at 7.5 to 8.0 and above in order to prevent premature gelling by cations. Gel formation was triggered after mixing the PEI, alginate, and yeast dispersion in the oil phase, under gentle agitation, by lowering the pH of the dispersion in the oil phase to approximately 6. Care must be taken that the pH does not remain elevated for prolonged periods of time. Generally, yeast and other microorganisms will not remain viable if subjected to extended periods where the pH is elevated above 8 or depressed below 6. Surfactants play a smaller role in controlling bead formation as bead size Increases. Thus, bead having diameters f 0.5mm were çorned nr tr1 ccncPntra Icn C the sole surfactant, sorbitan monooleate, was 17 grams per liter in the oil phase, beads of 1.5mm were formed where the concentration of the sole surfactant, sorbitan monooleate, was 1.0 gram per liter. For beads having a diameter of 2.0mm, the surfactant sorbitan monooleate was present in only trace amounts and for beads of 3.0mm was omitted entirely. It will be recognized by those skilled in the art that other surfactants may be substituted for sorbitan monooleate and dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate.EXAMPLE II The present bead composition of alginate, PEI, and yeast can withstand the harsh conditions where vigorous gas actions, high alcohol concentrations, and digestive enzymes prevail. The beads allow the growth of yeast by expanding and allow internally generated carbon dioxide to be effectively transported out of the beadswithout internal damage. Thus, films of PEI and alginate having 10 parts per hundred pph PEI and a mean cross sectional area of 0.0087 in2 have a mean tensile strength of 104.3 pounds per square inch psi and a mean ultimate elongation of 98.0 . Calcium alginate gel films of twice the .2 thickness, 0.0177 in , only demonstrate a mean tensile strength of 83.7 psi and a mean ultimate elongation of 79.3 . Combined with yeast, PEI alginate yeast gel films, having 10 pph PEI and a mean cross sectional area of 0.011 in2 have a mean tensile strength of 17.6 psi and a mean ultimate elongation of 55.3 . In comparison, yeast calcium alginate gel films having almost three times the thickness, approximately 0.032 in2, demonstrate a mean tensile strength of only 10.4 psi and a mean ultimate elongation of approximately 59.7 . After fermentation, PEI alginate yeast gel films continue to demonstrate surprising and unexpected strength and resiliency. PEI alginate yeast films after 2 fermentation and having a mean thickness of 0.04 in demonstrate a mean tensile strength of approximately 6.2 psi and a mean ultimate elongation of 24 . In comparison, yeast calcium alginate gel films after fermentation and having a much greater thickness, averaging 0.064 inê, have a mean tensile strength of only about 3.9 psi and a mean ultimate elongation of only 22.3 . Despite non sterile conditions, the PEI is effective in curtailing bacterial growth. Thus, Escherichia coli cells immobilized in gelatin, agar or alginate in the presence of 10 pph PEI, incubated at 350C for ten days in 0.1 molar glycine buffers at a pH of 7 and 9 and containing minerals and nutrients exhibit no growth. In contrast, the same carrier materials without PEI all exhibit heavy growth of Escherichia coli.EXAMPLE III The beads of the present invention are well suited for ethanol fermentation either in batch fermentation processes or within packed columns. In the following discussions, the mediums for yeast fermentation included alpha D glucose derived from corn hydrolysates containing approximately 5 of beta D glucose obtained from theSigma Chemical Company of St. Louis, Missouri. The YM broth was obtained from Difco Laboratories of Detroit,Michigan. Vitamins and yeast extract were obtained from the Sigma Chemical Company, and all inorganic chemicals referred to are of analytical grade. Glucose media having different formulations were prepared and transferred to fermentation flasks in 50 ml aliquots. Each medium contained 13 glucose. The first medium, identified below as a tap water medium, contained only 13 glucose in tap water. A second 13 glucose medium formulation, identified as an organic medium, also included 2t YM broth, 0.3 yeast extract, NH4 2SO4 at 1 g i, KH2POn at 0.2 g l, MgSO4 7H 20 at 1.2 g l, and CaC12 2H2O at 0.74 g l.A third medium, identified below as N medium, was nitrogen deficient including, in added tion to 13 glucose, only the components McSO 7H2 at 1.2 g l, KH2PO4 at 0.2 g l and CaC12 2H2O at 0.74 g l. A fourth medium, identified below as PK medium, was potassium and phosphate deficient including, in addition to 13 glucose, only NH4 2SO4 at 1 g l and MgSO4 7H2O at 1.2 g l. A still fifth medium, identified below as Mgmedium, was magnesium deficient including, in addition to 13 glucose, only KH2PO4 at 0.2 g l, NH4 2SO4 at 1 g l, and CaC12 2H2O at 0.74 g l. The flasks were stopped with cotton balls and autoclaved for 15 minutes at 121 0C. Flasks were inoculated with 5g of beads and designated A or 1.39 of beads and designated B . Fermentation was carried out on a NewBrunswick G10 gyratory shaker at 150 rpm. The fermentation temperatures were either 250C or 30 C. Samples of broth were obtained in a clean chamber and quenched with four volumes of 0.33N perchloric acid and stored at 200C in tightly capped containers until analyses were performed. Glucose was analyzed enzymically using SigmaCompany s glucose assay vial, No. 15 10. The formation of NADPH was detected spectrophotometrically at 340 nm using a Perkin Elmer Lambda 5 Precision Spectrophotometer. Ethanol was assayed using alcohol dehydrogenase.Formation of NADH was followed spectrophotometrically employing Sigma Chemical Company s ethanol assay vials,No. 330 5, and glycine buffer reagent, No. 332 9. The results of the flask batch fermentation are set forth in the table below TABLE IVRun No. Ethanol Yield Remarks 1 A 45.0 g l Tap water 1 B 1.0 g l 2 A 50.0 g l Organic medium 2 B 50.0 g l 3 A 45.0 g l N medium 3 B 6.5 g l 4 A 43.0 g l PK medium TABLE IV Continued 4 B 1.0 g l 5 A 42.0 g l Mg medium 5 B 4.0 g l The batch fermentation runs indicate that immobilized yeast beads were active in converting glucose to ethanol regardless of the presence of essential nutrients. When a larger amount of beads was used, all fermentation flasks contained high concentrations of ethanol irrespective of the medium. When the beads were reduced by one fourth, only complete organic mediums could produce the same amount of ethanol compared to the control.In a long term three day fermentation, a complete nutrient formulation was necessary for high ethanol yield however, in time,the complete nutrient formulation caused excessive growth of yeast within the bead matrix which was detrimental to overall ethanol yields.EXAMPLE IV Continuous ethanol fermentation was carried out in a packed column apparatus. A glass fermenter column, having approximate dimensions of 26mm x 40 cm, was filled three quarters full with approximately 60 grams of PEIalginate yeast beads, 0.7 to 1.7mm in diameter, to form a catalyst bed. The beads floated upward against a support screen which allowed the fermented broth and fermented gas to be separated in a glass liquid separator located on the top of the fermenter column. Sterile medium was continuously fed from a reservoir to the bottom of the column upward via a peristaltic feed pump. Air was injected in the medium stream at a continuous rate of 400 ml hr at standard temperature and pressure via an air injection pump. A sump pump drained the fermented broth continuously into a product reservoir.The medium reservoir, air injection pump inlet, column gas outlet, and product reservoir were protected w ith bacterial filters but the column and catalyst bead er not sterilized. liquid level approximately 2 cm above the catalyst bed was maintained. The beads activated for one to two days by eluting the fermentation medium at a rate of 50 ml hr. The fermentation medium is set forth in Table V below. TABLE V Chemical Concentration per liter Glucose 170gPeptone 5gYeast extract 6gMalt extract 3g NH4 2 SO4 lgKH2PO4 0.59 CaC12 2H2O 0.7g 0.7g MgSO47H2O 1.2g ZnSO4 7H2O 1 mgMnSO4 1H2O 1 mg FeCl36H2O 1 mg l NaMoO42H2O 0.3 mg CoC12 6H2O 0.3 mgH3BO3 0.3 mgCuSO4.5H2O 0.1 mgBiotin 0.05 mgPantothenate 1.5 mgFolic acid 2.5 mgInositol 4 mgNiacin 1 mgP Aminobenzoic acid 2.5 mgPyridoxine 1 mgRiboflavin 0.25 mgThiamine 1 mg As the beads became activated, the size of the beads increased two to threefold by weight, and the density of the beads decreased due to vigorous CO2 generation inside the beads. The fully activated beads formed a compact bed in the upper section of the column with well developed gas channels.The bead packing density ranged from 0.45 to 0.55g beads cm3 bed volume. The bed volume remained steady after the initial rapid increase during the activation period. After activation, the flow rate of the medium was controlled and the column equilibrated until a steady ethanol concentration was obtained in the effluent broth before samples were taken. Samples were taken at different space velocities, and the fermenter was operated under isothermal conditions at 22 C. The fermented broth samples were quenched with 0.33N perchloric acid and evaluated as described previously. The performance of the PEI alginate yeast beads in a column reactor apparatus is summarized in Figure 1. The circled points depict productivity in grams of ethanol per liter per hour. The squared points depict ethanol concentration as a percentage of the fermentation medium.The points surrounded by triangular forms depict residual sugar concentration as a percentage of the fermentation medium. The open forms depict the performance of PEI alginate yeast beads of the present invention. The solid filled forms depict the performance of calcium alginateyeast beads. The data depicted in the graphs is based on the analysis of the fermented broth. No correction for ethanol loss in the gas stream was made. The highest production rate of 84 g l h was obtained at a space velocity of 1.68 hl with an ethanol concentration of 50 g l.With the correction of the ethanol loss in the gas stream, the actual production rate would be as high as 86 g l h based on the catalyst bed volume. The highest ethanol concentration obtained by a single pass through the reactor was 74 g l at 0.53 h 1 space velocity. With a gas phase correction, the value of 74 g l is equivalent to a 7.7 ethanol concentration with an ethanol yield as high as 478 based on glucose feed. Thus, the present PEI alginate yeast beads, which obtained a productivity per bed volume of 86 g l h, compare favorably to prior art productivity of 46 g l h using calcium alginate to immobilize yeast claimed by T.Shiotani and T. Yamane in the article referred to earlier in the application. The superiority of the present invention is due to the uniformity of the beads and the ability of the beads to retain their structure during the fermentation process. Thus, the present PEI alginateyeast carrier matrix provides greater catalyst potency and stability, mechanical strength and resiliency, improved yeast cell retention in the beads, and increased ethanol yields. The alginate PEI reaction in forming the matrix neutralizes the toxic effects of PEI on yeast, such that there is no detrimental effect on ethanol production inPEI alginate matrixes compared to calcium alginate matrixes. In fact, incorporation of PEI into the alginate matrix resulted in increased ethanol yields. As much as a 10 increase in ethanol yield was observed with a shaker flask fermentation process when 10 pph PEI was incorporated in the alginate matrix, as set forth inTable VI. TABLE VI PEI content Ethanol yield pph of Na alginate 9 1 0 57 1.1 58 3.3 61 10 63 30 63 Moreover, calcium alginate itself cannot withstand stresses caused by vigorous carbon dioxide generation, cell proliferation, and the digestive environment during high rate ethanol fermentation. Unmodified calcium alginate beads ruptured and severely shrunk due to the loss of cells and the dissolved matrix. Unmodified calciumalginate beads resulted in as much as 70 bed shrinkage in a 4 day trial whereas the PEI modified alginate beads of the present invention allow cell growth by elastic expansion, and can withstand the harsh fermentation environment maintaining consistent bed volume after the initial rapid growth of the beads from two to threefold by weight.The free cell washout in the PEI modified 7 alginate yeast beads was less than I g l or 4 x 10 cells cc on a dry weight basis, approximately 1 15 of the cell washout rate for a typical free cell continuous fermenter. In spite of the non sterile system, the continuous fermentation process did not experience bacterial proliferation under any circumstances. This is attributed to the low pH fermentation conditions and the bacteriostatic effect of PEI. PEI causes lysis of certain bacteria which greatly aids in the maintenance of an aseptic fermentation process. The present PEI modified alginate yeast beads could withstand vigorous gas action in the digestive environment of an alcohol fermenter. PEI modified alginate beads have potential for widespread use in the bioconversion industry including organic acid production.Use of the present invention could result in significant savings in capital and operating costs as well as result in improved yields. Thus, while preferred embodiments have been illustrated and described, it is understood that the present invention is capable of variation and modification and, therefore, should not be limited to the precise details set forth, but should include such changes and alterations as fall within the purview of the following claims.