# SIGNAL RECORDING AND OR REPRODUCING APPARATUS

## Claims
Vorrichtung zur Verwendung mit einem Signalaufzeichnungs und wiedergabesystem einer Ausführung, in welcher Teilbildern entsprechende Videosignale in ausgewählten Spuren eines Aufzeichnungsmediums D aufgezeichnet sind und ein korrespondierendes Audiosignal in einer anderen ausgewählten Spur des Aufzeichnungsmediums D aufgezeichnet ist, wobei die Vorrichtung umfaßt eine Einrichtung 21,22,14 zum Aufteilen eines Audiosignals in mehrere Audiosignalsegmente AS , eine Einrichtung 14,21,22,23 zum Zeitbasiskomprimieren jedes der mehreren Audiosignalsegmente AS , die einen Speicher 14 enthält,

## Description
The present invention relates to recording and or reproducing apparatus for still images, such as those known as electronic still cameras and, more particularly, to electronic still cameras capable of recording an audio signal in association with the still image or scene. There are now known electronic still cameras that have in place of the conventional silver halide film a solid state image pickup device, such as a charged coupled device, or CCD, for recording a still image or scene on a magnetic recording disc. An example of such an electronic still camera is found in British Patent Application GB A 212603 The still camera described therein is designed so that one field, or one frame of the video signal from the image pickup device is taken during the time that the shutter is opened, which means the signal corresponding to the one frame is recorded on one complete annular track of a magnetic disc. In the unit intended for reproducing the images recorded by such electronic still cameras, the video signal of the recorded still image or scene is formed by repeated reproduction of one track, or repeated alternate reproduction of two tracks in a format in which only a single field is recorded on each track, two fields making up a frame. Such reproduced video signals then are supplied to a television monitor or television receiver for reproducing the still images on the cathode ray tube screen. Additionally, a so called video printer has also been proposed for printing a hard copy of the image recorded by an electronic still camera. Further proposals that have been made relative to the electronic still camera provide for the recording of ambient sounds or human voice narration associated with the still image or scene that is being recorded. A workable length for such audio material has been found to be approximately ten seconds. In recording such audio signals, the recording system used for the video signals may be used by compressing the audio signals along the time axis, using, for example, digital signal processing, thereby increasing the bandwidth of the audio signals to that of the video signals. As an example of such time base compression, an audio signal having a bandwidth of 5kHz could be compressed along the time axis by a factor of 600, raising the bandwidth of the signals to the video signal bandwidth, in this case 3MHz, so that audio signals having a time duration of about ten seconds can be recorded, which is about 600 times the duration of one field period typically 1 60th of a second. This technique works fine in theory except that a memory device with an extremely large capacity is required if ten seconds worth of audio signals are to be digitally processed in the manner described above. It has been proposed, therefore, to divide the ten second period corresponding to the desired audio program length into four equal parts of 2.5 seconds duration each, and then to process these individual parts digitally in order to reduce the required memory capacity. Each of the quadrisectioned, time axis compressed, continuous audio signals is sequentially and continuously recorded on each of the four sectors or segments obtained by dividing a given track on a magnetic disc into four equal sections. Nevertheless, while recording the series of audio signals on the four segments of one track solves one problem, other problems arise. For example, when the continuous audio signals are divided into a number of portions or segments, it becomes difficult to maintain the signal continuity between the successive segments at the time of reproduction. Also, in similar situations when the audio signals are recorded in a plurality of successive tracks, and the audio signals have a duration longer than ten seconds, it is difficult to maintain the signal continuity between the successive tracks during reproduction. Also, when the audio signals are recorded for only two seconds, for example, on a track capable of recording audio signals of a ten second duration, the remaining eight second period will be void of signals, however, it is still necessary to perform the audio reproducing operation for the entire ten seconds of the track in order to reproduce only the two seconds of audio signals recorded thereon. Furthermore, because the audio signals associated with the next successive image of scene can be recorded only at intervals of ten seconds, it is not possible during continuous shooting to record the sound or voice associated with each scene of the continuous series. Similarly, when the audio signals are recorded over a plurality of tracks, it is difficult to distinguish the image track from the audio track so that the sound or voice is not always produced in association with the appropriate scene. GB A 2122407 discloses a video audio recording and reproducing apparatus in accordance with the pre characterising portion of claim 1 and in which several audio tracks may be recorded between video tracks and aligned with the video track to which they relate. The apparatus also includes aligned audio video pick ups so that several audio tracks may be scanned while scanning one video track thus increasing the length of audio data which can be recorded for any given video frame. In accordance with the present invention, there is provided apparatus for use with a signal recording and reproducing system of a type wherein fields of video signals are recorded on selected tracks of a recording medium a corresponding audio signal is recorded on another selected track of the recording medium, the apparatus comprising means for dividing an audio signal into a plurality of audio signal segments means for time base compressing each of said plurality of audio signal segments and including a memory, characterised in that the apparatus further includes means for generating identification signals for each of said time base compressed audio signal segments and means for recording said identification signals on a track including audio signals segments, whereby said identification signals are used upon reproduction for performing time base expansion and annexation of the audio signal segments into a continuous audio signal. The invention also provides recording apparatus and also recording reproducing apparatus corresponding such apparatus. As will become apparent from the following description, the illustrated embodiment of the invention provides a signal recording and or reproducing apparatus that can alleviate the above noted defects inherent in the prior art, and which can maintain the signal continuity between segments of audio program material recorded on a single track. The illustrated apparatus can maintain the signal continuity between the audio portions recorded in more than one track at the time of signal reproduction and eliminate the requirement to continue an audio reproduction operation when there is no material recorded at that position on a track, thereby making it possible to reproduce the sound or voice in association with the actual image being displayed. Further, the apparatus is more versatile in recording sound and voice material with electrically recorded images than that known heretofore. In the present invention, the start and end identification signals are inserted at the leading and trailing portions of the segments, respectively, and are used to provide easy and positive annexation of the respective adjoining segments in a track. Nevertheless, these start and end identification signals can also be used to accomplish easy and accurate annexation of the signals in adjoining adjacent tracks, as well as annexation of the adjoining segments in each track. Additionally, the control code data signals that are recorded with the respective audio signals can be employed to preclude performing the reproducing operation when it is not required. Use of the present invention can also provide for stereophonic or bilingual reproduction, as well as correctly matching reproduction of the sound or voice matched to the appropriate scene, as will be described hereinbelow. The above and other features, and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of illustrative embodiments thereof to be read in conjuncion with the accompanying drawings, in which like reference numerals represent the same or similar elements. In the drawings Figs. 1 A and 1 B are diagrammatic representations of waveforms showing signal formats for sound or voice signals recorded according to the present invention Fig. 2 is a schematic block diagram of a recording system for recording signals such as those represented in Figs. 1 A and 1 B Fig. 3 is a timing chart showing the time base compression of audio signals according to the present invention Fig. 4 represents signal waveforms showing the timing of the audio signals written into a memory according to the present invention Fig. 5 is a plan view of a magnetic recording disc showing the quadrisectioned segments of a single track Fig. 6 is a schematic view of a magnetic recording disc representing the audio signals recorded in each segment of a track Fig. 7 is a schematic block diagram of a reproducing system according to the present invention Fig. 8 is a schematic diagram showing in more detail the signal identification sensor of Fig. 7 Fig. 9 represents signal waveforms showing the timing of the operation of the sensor of Fig. 8 Fig. 10 is a diagrammatic view of a magnetic recording disc representing audio signals recorded across a plurality of tracks Fig. 11 A is a diagrammatic view of a magnetic recording disc representing signals recorded on one track in a continuous shooting format Fig. 11 B is a diagrammatic view of a magnetic recording disc showing the signal format of the signals as recorded in Fig. 11 A Fig. 12 is a diagrammatic view of a magnetic recording disc representing a modification of the recording format in Fig. 10 and Fig. 13 is a diagrammatic representation of signal formats employing controlled code data according to the present invention. Figs. 1 A and 1 B diagrammatically represent formats for the audio signals recorded on each segment of a track on a magnetic disc according to the present invention, as might be recorded using a recording system such as that shown in Fig. 2. Referring then to Fig. 2, video input signals from a CCD sensor or the like not shown are fed in through input terminal 1 to a recording circuit 2 that may generally comprise the known low pass filters, automatic gain control, clamps, and the like, in order to process the video signals for recording. Such recording signals are then fed from recording circuit 2 to a non linear pre emphasis circuit 3 and then to one terminal of a change over switch 4. When change over switch 4 is in the other position from that shown in Fig. 2, the signals from pre emphasis circuit 3 are fed to a frequency modulator 5, where they are processed into the appropriate FM signals to be recorded on a magnetic disc D by a known recording head 6. The video signals are recorded by field in the concentric tracks of the disc, currently it is convenient for these to be one field per track. Magnetic disc D is driven for rotation by electric motor M at a rate of, for example, 3600 rpm. Such a system for recording video signals is typical of known electronic still cameras at this time. On the other hand, the audio signals are supplied through input terminal 11 from a suitable microphone or other transducer not shown to a noise reducing encoder 12 and then to an analog to digital A D converter 13. The digitally converted signals are then fed to a memory 14, where they are written thereto in accordance with addresses that are produced in a fashion to be described below. The contents of memory 14 are read out to a digital to analog D A converter 15 wherein they are converted back into corresponding analog signals. Sampling signals for the analog to digital conversion accomplished in A D converter 13 are provided by an oscillator or clock 21 at a frequency represented at f Signals representing the rotational phase of disc D, which is being rotated at 3600 rpm by motor M, are provided by a pick up head 24 that senses a rotating magnetic element G affixed to the shaft of motor M and are fed to a timing signal generator 25 that produces pulsed signals having a pulse period of approximately 1 60th of a second and that are related to the rotational phase of the disc D and fed to an identification signal generator 26. The same pulsed signals are also fed to address counter 22. Timing signal generator 25 also receives at input terminal 27 a signal generated upon the actuation of the shutter button not shown . Accordingly, it is seen that audio signal that is output from analog to digital converter 13 is fed to or written into memory 14 at, a rate based on signal f Now, the audio signals described above, are read out from memory 14 and converted from digital form in D A converter 15, are fed to a signal mixer 16 that also receives start identification signals SID and end identification signals EID, which are generated in the identification signal generator 26 in accordance with the pulsed timing signals provided by timing signal generator 25, that produces such signals based upon the disc rotation speed as sensed by sensor 24 cooperating with magnetic element G on the shaft of motor M. The respective positions of the start identification signal and end identification signal relative to the audio portion are shown in Figs. 1 A and 1 B. Mixer 16 also has supplied thereto an output from an encoder 33 that has input thereto control code data API generated by control code data generator 32 based upon control signals that are supplied from a system controller 31 that is used to control the reproducing operation of the recorded audio signals. Fig. 1 A shows the signal arrangement produced by mixing these additional signals with the audio signals. More specifically, Fig. 1 A represents one segment of the signal having an overall time duration t It is, of course, a requirement that the identification signals, both start and end, must be able to be distinguished not only from each other but also from the audio portion recorded in segment t In regard to the control code data API, this data is formed of a number of bits, for example, 64 bits, that are allocated to various data such as track address, the leading end of succeeding addresses of a continuous sound or voice, an address of the corresponding image or scene, the time compression ratio mode, the segment use state, or data relative to the actual recording. The track address data can be employed to indicate the absolute address of the track containing the recorded signals. The track leading address data of the continuous sound or voice can be employed to indicate the address of the leading track in the situation where the sound or voice is recorded on a plurality of tracks and, similarly, the succeeding address data of the continuous sound or voice can be employed to indicate the address of the track to be reproduced the next successive time. The time compression ratio mode data is employed to indicate the compression ratio employed in time base compressing the audio signal, examples of such compression ratio being 1 640 or 1 1280. The segment use state data indicates the use state of each of the four segments, for example, stereo mode, bilingual mode, or the like. It is noted that the same control code data API is recorded in all segments S The output signal from mixer 16 is fed to a linear pre emphasis circuit 17 and the emphasized signal is fed to the other contact of change over switch 4, which connected as shown in Fig. 2 provides the pre emphasized analog signal to frequency modulator 5, where it is converted into the appropriate FM signals for recording and is then recorded on disc D by magnetic head 6. Change over switch 4 is operated by the overall system control unit not shown in a conventional fashion. Fig. 4 shows the four segments of the audio signal AS An embodiment of a system according to the present invention for reproducing audio signals recorded by apparatus such as that shown in Fig.2 is represented in Fig.7, in which signals recorded on disc D are reproduced by magnetic head 41 and fed to a frequency demodulator 42. When magnetic head 41 is scanning a track of disc D on which video signals have been recorded, the frequency modulated video signals are fed to a nonlinear de emphasis circuit 43 and then to a reproduction circuit 44, before being fed out at video output terminal 45. It is understood, of course, that reproduction circuit 44 contains the typical circuitry corresponding to that in the recording circuit 2 of Fig. 2. When magnetic head 41 is scanning a track on disc D on which audio signals have been previously recorded, the frequency demodulated signals are then fed to a linear de emphasis circuit 51 and the de emphasized signals are fed to an analog to digital converter 52 A D . The separation of these signals can be accomplished by a change over switch not shown , or by various filtering networks or the like. The de emphasized signal from the linear de emphasis circuit 51 is also fed to an identification signal sensor 61 and to a control data sensor 62. Identification signal sensor 61 operates to detect the start identification signal SID and end identification signal EID, which are both fed to a timing signal generator 63,and the end identification signal EID is also fed to the control code data sensor 62. Control code data sensor 62 operates to separate or sense the control code data API, and the resultant signal is fed to timing signal generator 63 and also to a system controller 64, which operates in the known fashion to control the overall system. As noted above, the control code data API contains information relevant to the various operations of the overall system. The digitally converted, reproduced signals from A D converter 52 are written into memory 53, and the corresponding output signals that are read out from memory 53 are subsequently reconverted to an analog signal in a digital to analog converter 54 and then fed to a noise reducing decoder 55 before being ultimately made available at audio output terminal 56. As in the recording system, the manner in which the signals are written into and read out of memory 53 is important. Thus, the signals having a frequency 640 f In operation then, when the falling edge of the start identification signal SID is sensed and a signal fed to timing signal generator 63, the signal for writing into memory 53 is started after a time period t₃ has elapsed, as shown in Fig. 1 A. Address counter 66 then controls memory 53 for writing in of the digital signal based upon the frequency of the signal output by clock 65. The writing in operation is discontinued as soon as the end identification signal EID is sensed and signals are read out from memory 53 under control of address counter 66 in response to the clock signal from clock 67 that has a rate 1 640 times that of the writing in signal. In other words, the use of the two clock signal generators having different respective frequencies permits the audio signals to be expanded 640 times along the time base axis so as to be restored to their original length by the reverse of the time base compression procedure used during recording. As a further feature of the presention invention, the writing in operation to memory 53 is terminated by the end identification signal EID and the address of memory 53 is then counted down by a number corresponding to time interval t₄, as represented in Figs. 1 A and 1 B. This counting down operation is repeated in each segment in order to discard data that may have occurred during time t₄, so that only the actual audio signals AS of the respective segments are continuously written into memory 53. Also in this embodiment, when there is an overlap in contents of the audio signals of the respective segments, that is, when the same data has been recorded for example at the trailing portion of audio signal AS Identification signal sensor 61 is shown in more detail in Fig. 8 and the waveforms of the signals occurring at several locations in Fig. 8 are shown in Fig. 9. More particularly, the waveform d shown at A in Fig. 9 represents the signal fed in at input terminal 71 to a first differentiation circuit 72 that senses the falling edge of the signal. This signal d is also fed to a second differentiating circuit 73 that senses the rising edge, and is also fed to a low pass filter 74. Referring then to Fig. 9, the input waveform of signal d at terminal 71 is shown at A, and B represents the output e of first differentiating circuit 72. Second differentiating circuit 73 operates to sense the rising edge and produces output signal f shown at C, and the output g of low pass filter 74 is shown at D. The output signal g is fed to two comparator circuits 75 and 76 which operate as threshold detectors relative to the thresholds represented by dashed lines h and i, respectively, at D of Fig. 9. The output signals of j and k threshold detectors 75 and 76 are fed to logical AND circuits 77 and 78, respectively, and the waveforms of these signals from threshold detectors 75 and 76 are shown at E and F of Fig. 9. Also input to AND circuits 77 and 78 are the output signals from differentiating circuits 72 and 73, respectively, and the falling edge of the start identification signal SID is sensed by AND gate 77, so that an output signal ℓ is produced therefrom at SID terminal 79 and an AND identification signal is produced by AND gate circuit 78 at EID terminal 80. The waveform of the output signal ℓ of AND gate 77 is shown at G, and the output signal m of AND gate 78 is shown at H in Fig. 9. As indicated generally above, the control code data API is intended to control the reproduction operation of the audio signals and typically comprises various data such as track address, leading and succeeding addresses of the continuous sound or voice signals, the address of the corresponding image or scene, the time compression ratio mode, the segment used to state the date, and the like. Thus, by recording the control code data API in each segment along with the audio signal, when the audio signals are recorded across plural tracks the video and audio tracks can be distinguished from each other during reproduction, so that the sound or voices associated with the image or scene can be reproduced appropriately. For example, as shown in Fig. 10, when the video signals are recorded on track T₁ and the corresponding audio signals are recorded on tracks T₂,T₃, and T₄, then track addresses 2 through 4, the address of the corresponding video image 1, the leading address of the continuous voice or sound, and the succeeding addresses of the continuous voice or sounds may be simultaneously recorded on each of the four tracks as the control code data API. Assuming the subscripts to be the address, the leading address of the continuous voice for each of the tracks T₂ T₄ is 2 and the succeeding addresses for the tracks T₂, T₃ and T₄ are 3 , 4 and 0 , respectively. Thus, during reproduction of the typical disc represented in Fig. 10, magnetic head 41 can be shifted in the order of tracks T₂, T₃ and T₄ to 2 , the audio signals recorded in tracks T₂ T₄ can be continuously reproduced end to end. When continuous shooting is desired, that is, a situation involving picture taking in which the contents of the audio signals are terminated within, for example, 2.5 seconds and the entire 10 seconds allocated are not employed, audio signals corresponding to the respective images or scenes can still be recorded and reproduced. In that case, the audio signals A The present invention also allows the provision of stereophonic recording or reproduction by allocating segments S Although a specific example for the time based compression ratio was described above, the audio signal compression ratio can be twice that of the described ratio, that is, a compression ratio of 1 1280 can be used, which then makes possible a recording time on one track of up to 20 seconds. In that case, one of the control code data, such as the time compression ratio mode data will have a different format from that employed with the compression ratio of 1 640. As a further variation, the control code data API can be placed directly after the start identification signal SID, instead of after the end identification signal EID, as in the preceding embodiment yet still retain all of the advantageous features of that embodiment. Referring now to Fig. 12, when the audio signals are recorded on plural consecutive tracks in the order a through g as shown in Fig. 12, these identification signals SID and EID are selected to have specific polarities so that with track head arranged at P and a scanning or sequence direction of the head shown at arrow Q, there are four types of sectors or segments possible that can be defined by the following The content of the control code data API is shown in more detail in Fig. 13 and, more particularly, the relationship between the plural consecutive tracks on which the complete and consecutive audio signals are recorded end to end, as represented, for example, in Figs. 10 and 12. The waveform at A in Fig. 13 corresponds generally to that shown in Fig. 1 A and, in a practical embodiment after modulation using the nonreturn to zero NRZ modulation technique, the control code data API are frequency modulated as are the audio data AS. The control code data API is allocated as represented at B in Fig. 13 and comprises nine data words, W₁ through W₉, a cyclical redundancy check code CRC consisting of two words, W₁₀ and W₁₁, a sync code consisting of one word W₀, and a total of twelve start bits S, one preceding each of the words of the API code. Each of the words in the control code data API is an eight bit word represented at C in Fig. 13, and the start bits and sync code W₀ are employed as sync data in the data reproduction mode. Word W₁ designates its own track number, that is, the number of the track being reproduced, and W₂ designates the track number of the audio track containing the first sector of the sequence, word W₃ designates the track number of the audio track containing the next sector of the audio sequence, and word W₄ designates the track number of the corresponding video track. Word W₅ is retained as a reserved data area, and word W₆ designates the data area indicating the time compression ratio of the audio signal. Words W₇ through W₉ designate areas indicating the date, that is, the day, month, and year. Word W₆ indicating time compression ratio is adapted so that the time base compression ratio of the audio signal can be set at 320, 640, or 1280 in the case of recording the video signals in the NTSC format, or can be set to 272, 544, or 1088, in the case of recording video signals in the PAL format. In that regard, the carrier frequency of the time base compressed audio signals for the NTSC format having 525 lines per 60 fields is set to be equal to 6