# Improved hair drier with inclined and revolving handle for professional and personal use.

## Abstract
The present invention relates to an improved type hair drier 2 with slant and swing handle 4 which can be employed for professional as well as for personal use. When employed for professional use, the haindle 4 is slanted in the rearward direction to provide a correct direction of the hair blow by contrast, when employed for personal use, the handle is requested to be slanted in the forward direction, which provides the correct slope of the blowing body. In the hair drier of the present invention, the handle is formed by a small saddle shaped base 3 which is an integral part of the central blowing body 2 of the appliance and a slant handle 4 , pivoted under the base. On the plane of the hangrip facing the saddle shaped base, a semicircular groove 10 and a few hemispheric seats 12 are cutted to allow a rotation of 180 of the handle and its fastening in the different possible positions.

## Claims
What we claim is 1. A hair drier including a blowing body and handle which is adapted to axially rotate through an arc of 1800 and is slightly slanted relative to the perpendicular to the blowing body, so that it slants in the forward direction when the hair drier is employed for personal use and in the rearward direction for professional use. 2. A hair drier according to claim 1, in which the handle comprises a saddle shaped base which is an integral part of the blowing body and a slant handgrip pivoting over said base. 3. A hair drier according to claim 2, in which on an upper plate of the handgrip facing the saddle shaped basr, a semicircular groove accomodates the end of a pin extending from a lower plate of the saddle shaped base, said pin being arranged to move within the groove when the handle is rotated by up to 1800. . A hair drier according to claim 3, in which on the lower plate of the saddle shaped base, a plurality of hemispherical seats sequentially disposed around a semicircle engage a spring loaded sphere extending fromm the upper plate of the handle on rotation of the handle.

## Description
ThROVED HAIR DRIER WITH INCLINED AND REVOLVING HANDLEFOR PROFESSIONAL AND PERSONAL USEThe present patent relates to a hair drier with a slant and swing handle which, because of the particular disposition and structure of its ports, can be employed for professional as well as for personal use.The hair drier is one of the most common appliances found in every home. In the past few years good quality hairdriers are found even in private houses, whereas before they were found only in places where they were used for professional work. As a consequence of this, the procudtion of hair driers has become highly standaridized.However, now that the power and the sturdiness of the hair driers have become standard for private as well as for professional use, what is required from the appliance is to have a different handle or handgrip according to the different work situations. In the professional situation, in order to improve on its correct and less tiring regular use by an operator who is standing when drying hair of a seated person, the hair dricr s handle is advantageously slanted in the rearward dierotion so that the air blows towards the hair. By contrast, in the personal use, the air from the hair drier blows towards the head of the person who handles it with the arm.In this case, it has been found to be more convenient to have the hairdrier s handle slanted in the forward direction because, by holding it vertically, the air blows towards the hair.The available hair driers either have a handle perpendicular to the blowing body, thus satisfying the requirement of both types of possible users, or they are built in two different types with the handle slanted in oppo site directions. In the case, of course, there are the disadvantages of double production and inventory.The present invention avoids the aboveinentioned drawbacks and limitations of the conventional appliance. In particular, the present invention provides a hair drier with a handle that rotates around a pivot ao that it can be used by the professional as well as by other persons. Accordinfi to the present invention there is provided a hair drier including a blowing body and handle which is adapted to axially rotate through an arc of 1800 and is slightly slanted relative to the perpendicular to the blowing body, so that is slants in the forward direction when the hair drier is employed for personal use and in the rearward direction for professional use.Thus, in the hair drier of the present invention, the handle is formed by a small saddle shaped base, which is an integral I art of the central body of the app nce, and the handle per se slants and pivots under the base.In one embodiment of the present invention, on the plane of the handgrip facing the saddle shaped base, a semicircular groove is cut in which a pin is engaged exten ding from the lower plane of such saddle shaped base. Whenever the handle is turned for a rotation of up to 1800, the pin runs within the groove.Moreover, on the plane of the saddle shaped base facing the handle a few hemispheric seats are grooved along a nalf circle where a small spiring loaded sphere protru dinz from the plane of the handle itself during the rotation of the handle.The present invention will be further illustrated by way of example which reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 1 is a side elevation of a hair drier for professional use according to one embodiment of the invention Ff Ï . 2 is a side elevation of the hair drier of Fig. 1 for personal use Fig. 3 is an exploded view of the hair drier of Figs.1 and 2 and Fig. 4 is detailed view of the coupling betwee Jda9 Pe shaped base and handgrip un the hair drier of Figs. 1 and 2.The Figures show in its generality the hair drier according to the invention, which comprises a central part re presented by the blowing I presented by the blowing body 2, a saddle shaped base 3 of the handle which is conventionally connected to body 2, and the handgrip 4 per Se which is connected to base 3 by pivot 5. Pivot 5 has the functions of maintaining the saddla shaped base 3 and handgrip 4 together and, at the same time, being the fulcrum for the hand grip rotation.The connection between base 3 and handgrip 4 Lust be sufficiently tight to give reliable use of the hair drier and at the same time allow for a smooth rotation of the handle 4. This is achieved by the particular way pivot 5 is mounted onto the base and the handle. On base 3, pivot 5 is mounted from the top and held there by its head 5 , whereas in the handle 4 it is held by a coaxial screw 8 which engages the pivot 5 in its hollow and internally threaded lower part. Screw 8 is provided with a washer that holds a spring 6 loaded against the plate 4 of the handgrip so that a force is present that keeps the two plates 3 and 4 in abutment. Pin 9 extending from plate 3 , when this is in contact with plate 4 , runs within groove 10 until, after a rotation of 1800 one way or the other, it encountere walls 10 and 10 that act as a stop, thus avoiding entanglement of the wires 13, which cross the same groove 10, with the risk of breaking.During the rotation of the handgrip a spring loaded sphere 11 extending out of plate 4 falls into a series of hemispheric seats 12 recessed in plate 3 and located on a semicircle.In this way, one obtains a stable rotational positioning of the handgrip relative to the whole body of the hairdrier.