# Corrosion inhibitor method for the treatment for boiler water.

## Abstract
There is disclosed a coordinated phosphate pH cor rosion control method for the treatment of boiler water, in which said treatment in supplemented with an alpha amine neutralized organic acid. An alpha amine is one which has a distribution ratio of 0.01 or greater and a pK

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A coordinated phosphate pH corrosion control method for the treatment of boiler water, in which residual orthophosphate is maintained in the water in an amount of from about 1 to about 50 ppm and a Na P04 of from about 2 1 to less than 3 1 is maintained in the water, characterised by, supplementing the treatment with an effective amount for the purpose of an aqueous solution of alpha amine neutralized organic acid. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that the organic acid is at least one member selected from the group consisting of carboxylic acid polymer, sulfonic acid polymer, phosphonic acid polymer and poly phosphonic acid. 3. A method as claimed in claim 2, characterised in that the organic acid is carboxylic acid polymer. 4. A method as claimed in claim 3, characterised in that the organic acid is selected from the group consisting of acrylic acid polymer and methacrylic acid polymer. 5. A method as claimed in claim 4, characterised in that the organic acid is copolymer of acrylic acid and methacrylic acid. 6. A method as claimed in claim 5, characterised in that the organic acid is polymethacrylic acid. 7. A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterised in that the alpha amine is at least one member selected from the group consisting of morpholine, cyclohexylamine and aminomethylpropanol. 8. A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterised in that the organic acid is added in an amount of from about 1 to 150 ppm. 9. A method as claimed in claim 8, characterised in that the organic acid is added in an amount of from about S to about 50 ppm. 10. A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterised in that the Na P04 is maintained at from about 2.13 1 to about 2.85 1. 11. A method according to claim 10, wherein the Na P04 is maintained at from about 2.2 1 to about 2.6 1. 12. A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterised in that the residual orthophosphate level is maintained at from about 2 to about 30 ppm.

## Description
DESCRIPTION CORROSION INHIBITOR METHOD FOR THE TREATMENT FOR BOILER iAUFR Boilers using demineralized makeup water are known to be prone to caustic attack. High pressure boilers are particularly susceptible to this type of metal corrosion. The inside surfaces of the boiler are typically protected with magnetite. Hydroxide ion, being the predominant anion in high purity boiler water, can dissolve the magnetite when highly concentrated. Even though high purity water is being used, caustic can nonetheless become highly concentrated, primarily due to the presence of iron oxide deposits on radiant wall tubes. While the bulk water may contain only 5 10 ppm of caustic, it is quite possible to have localized caustic concentrations of up to 100,000 ppm The iron oxide deposits are extremely porous so that water is drawn thereinto. Due to heat being applied from beneath, steam is generated and passes out of the porous deposit, while fresh water is again drawn thereinto. The result is the noted high concentrations of caustic which must be dealt with if the boiler is to properly be protected. A widely used method for controlling caustic corrosion in boilers using demineralized high purity makeup water, particularly in high pressure boilers, is the coordinated phosphate pH control treatment. This method of treatment is detailed in an article byGeorge Gibson entitled The Basics of Phosphate pH Boiler WaterTreatment , Power Engineering, February, 1978, p. 66, which article is incorporated herein by reference to the extent necessary to complete this disclosure. In any event, portions are excerpted below for purposes of explanation. The coordinated phosphate pH corrosion control treatment is based on two principles first, that sodium phosphates are a pH buffer and second, that di sodium hydrogen phosphate converts potentially corrosive caustic into relatively harmless trisodium phosphate according to the following equation EMI2.1 disodium caustic trisodium water hydrogen phosphate phosphate , Accordingly, general corrosion is prevented through the control of boiler water pH, and adherent deposits with concomitant caustic corrosion are prevented by maintaining a di sodium hydrogen phosphate residual in the boiler water to react with caustic according to equation 1 . The program is implemented with a control chart such as in Figure 1. Disodium hydrogen phosphate is present if the coordinate of pH and phosphate lies within the control boundary. Many sodium phosphates are used in boiler water treatment.Of these, orthophosphates are preferred. Complex phosphates, in the form of polymer chains, break down into orthophosphates at boiler water temperatures by a process known as reversion. The orthophosphates are monosodium dihydrogen phosphate MSP , disodium hydrogen phosphate DSP and trisodium phosphate TSP . Orthophosphates can be identified by name, formula or sodium to phosphate ratio which can be expressed with the notation Na P04 , read as sodium to phosphate ratio. Monosodium hydrogen phosphate has one mole of sodium per mole of phosphate. Therefore, the sodium to phosphate ratio is oneto one Na P04 1 1 . Disodium hydrogen phosphate, with two moles of sodium per mole of phosphate, has a Na P04 2 1, and trisodium phosphate has a Na P04 3 1. Sodium to phosphate ratios are useful to describe mixtures of phosphates in solution. For example, solutions of DSP and TSP have a Na P04 between 2 1 and 3 1. The Na P04 is fairly proportional to the mix ratio. For instance, a solution of half DSP and half TSP has a ratio of about 2.5 1 it is actually 2.46 1 becauseDSP and TSP have different molecular weights . Figure 2 shows the relation between solution pH and phosphate concentration for various sodium to phosphate molar ratios.Examination of the figure reveals pH increases with increasing Na P04 at equal phosphate concentrations . Accordingly, solution pH and phosphate concentration indent fly phosphate form, it being kept in mind that disodium hydrogen phosphate is the species which neutralizes caustic according to equation 1 . A trisodium phosphate solution exists if the phosphate pH coordinate falls on the Na P04 3 1 line di sodium hydrogen phosphate solution if the coordinate falls on the 2 1 line and a mixture of DSP and TSP if the coordinate falls between the 2 1 and 3 1 lines. As the coordinate approaches the 3 1 line, there is more and more TSP and less and less DSP in the solution. The solution is a mixture of TSP and caustic if the coordinate falls above the 3 1 line. In this free caustic region there is no DSP to tie up the caustic. It is seen that the phosphate pH coordinate must be below the Na P04 3 1 line to ensure that there is DSP in solution to tie up the caustic. The further the phosphate pH coordinate is kept below the line the greater the caustic absorbing capacity of the water and the less chance of drifting into the region above the 3 1 line. Figure 2 is based on pure sodium phosphate solution. The pure solution theory can be used with impure boiler water because the concentration of other species is low and their solubility high.Complex chemistry is avoided by using pH as a variable. It is desirable td keep the Na P04 between 2.8 1 and 2.2 1. The phosphate pH control chart, Figure 1, is a refinement of Figure 2 with a control boundary in the appropriate range to prevent caustic corrosion. The control chart is the heart of phosphate pH control. There has been some confusion in applying sodium to phosphate ratios. The Na P04 used in phosphate pH control is determined only from boiler water pH and phosphate concentration, not by measuring sodium and phosphate concentrations of the boiler water. This information can be used to make a phosphate pH control chart by first setting phosphate limits. Maximum allowable phosphate decreases with increasing boiler pressure because of carryover and phosphate hideout. The latter term, incidentally, refers to the phenomenon of diminishing boiler water phosphate levels with increased firing rate everything else held constant and the reappearance of boiler water phosphate level when the firing rate is reduced. Hideout phosphate is believed to be caused by precipitating the phosphates under high heat flux conditions. Individual plants have set their own phosphate limits, based on what works for them and on results at similar installations. The limits chosen for the control chart shown in Figure 1 are consistent with industry practice and have proved to be satisfactory in practical applications. Note that the residual phosphate limits contained in the control chart Figure 1 are the maximum levels recommended for satisfactory boiler operation. Whatever the allowable residual phosphate concentration, it is prudent to operate with as little phosphate as practicable. There should be an upper Na P04 limit of 2.85 1 to prevent caustic corrosion and a lower Na P04 limit of 2.13 1 to prevent acid attack. But, it would be prudent to include a safety factor into these numbers, which safety factor depends on in dividual boiler characteristics and system water tightness.Lower pressure boilers have less trouble with caustic corrosion than higher pressure boilers and generally can be run with Na P04 close to the 2.85 1 line. Of course, if caustic corrosion is occurring, a lower maximum limit should be set for the boilers involved. High pressure boilers tend to be more susceptible to caustic corrosion, and a maximum Na P04 line of 2.6 1 usually is chosen. This has proved to be an effective limit. It should be understood from the foregoing that the coordinated phosphate pH control treatment consists primarily of two basic steps as follows 1 maintenance of an appropriate level of residual orthophosphate in the boiler water and 2 maintenance of the proper Na P04 ratio in the water. The residual orthophosphate level will depend on such known factors as the nature and severity of the problem and boiler pressure. Since it is considered best to operate with as little phosphate as possible, amounts as low as about 1 ppm could be used, with about 2 ppm being the preferred minimum. While amounts as high as about 50 ppm residual orthophosphate could be used, about 30 ppm is the preferred maximum. While the coordinated phosphate pH corrosion control treatment is widely used, it is not without its drawbacks and limitations. Often, it is desirable to supplement the treatment with additional corrosion inhibitor however, this is not always practicable. It has been customary for many years to use the sodium salt of a polymeric dispersant, such as sodium polymethacrylate, as the supplement. When the sodium salt form is used, the Na P04 in the boiler water is often significantly altered and the solids level of the boiler water rises. If the Na P04 is allowed to rise over the 3 1 line of Figure 2, caustic attack again becomes a problem, and, particularly in high pressure boiler systems, increased solids levels can lead to undesirable foaming in the water. Thus, the use of supplemental treatment has been severely limited.In fact, when the Na P04 is near the control limit, the supplemental treatment has been completely omitted. The present invention relates to an improvement in the coordinated phosphate pH corrosion control treatment for boiler water. According to the present invention, a supplemental corrosion inhibitor is provided which neither significantly alters the sodium burden of the boiler nor significantly increases the solids level therein. The present invention is drawn to the use, in conjunction with a coordinated phosphate pH corrosion control treatment, of an aqueous solution of an organic acid dispersant which has been neutralized with any one of a class of specific amines, hereinafter referred to as alpha amines. More specifically, according to the present invention, the organic acid dispersant is neutralized with a suitable amine or NH3 which is volatile under the conditions of the boiler water to be treated and has a basicity constant of 8.0 or less. A detailed description of how to determine suitable amines is presented below. The invention offers certain advantages as follows 1 the sodium burden in the boiler is limited, thus limiting caustic gouging and other forms of boiler metal corrosion 2 advantage 1 is accomplished with volatile materials that do not concentrate in the boiler and, thereby, do not contribute to either corrosion or deposition processes and 3 the supplemental material will aid in corrosion control in both the boiler and in the steam distribution system due to volatile neutralizing agents . The utility of the present invention is considered to be greatest for those high pressure above about 900 1200 psig boiler systems experiencing difficulty in maintaining a Na P04 less than 2.8 1. The use of a low sodium supplement under these conditions does not contribute to the sodium burden of the boiler, thereby simplifying the maintenance of a coordinated phosphate pH control treatment, i.e., supplemental feed to the boiler feedwater can be made without disrupting the sodium to phosphate ratio. According to the present invention, a supplemental corrosion inhibitor is provided in which a volatile organic base has replaced caustic as a neutralizing agent. This resulting alkaline product is considered to be preferable to an acidic product. Furthermore, the volatile organic base finds utility as a condensate corrosion inhibitor, neutralizing carbonic acid at steam condensation sites.The Organic Acid Any reference hereinafter to the polymers used in accordance with the present invention is intended to include the polymers individually as well as any combination of homopolymer, copolymer and mixtures thereof. The term polymeric acid is intended to include any polymer containing acid functional group s , as well as acid precursor compounds e.g., anhydrides . As already noted, the compounds which are considered to be useful in practicing the present invention are any of the well known organic acid dispersants, such as polymeric sulfonic acids, polymeric phosphonic acids, polymeric carboxylic acids and poly phosphonic acids. Illustrative examples of polymeric carboxylic acids would be as follows polyacrylic acid polymethacrylic acid polymaleic anhydride acrylic aci d hydroxypropyl acryl ate copolymer sul fonated styrene mal ei c anhydride copolymer methyl vinyl etherimaleic anhydri de copolymer acrylic acid methacrylic acid copolymer Illustrative examples of polymeric sulfonic acids would be as follows sul fonated polystyrene polyvinyl sulfuric acid sulfonated styrene maleic anhydride copolymer polyvinyl sul fonic acid poly 2 acrylamido 2 methylpropanesulfonic acid Illustrative examples of poly phosphonic acids would be ethylenediamine tetra methylene phosphonic acid 1 hydroxyethylidene 1,1 diphosphonic acid nitrilotri methylene phosphonic acid These compounds are believed to be useful in boilers of up to about 1500 psig. The polymeric phosphonic acids are believed to be suitable for use at pressures up to well above 1500 psig however, few are presently commercially available. Illustrative examples of these compounds are polyvinyl phosphonic acid and its substituted analogs As is well known in the art, the amount of supplemental corrosion inhibitor would depend on such factors as the nature and severity of the problem to be treated and could vary over a wide range. The amount of organic acid could, accordingly, be as low as about 1 part polymer per million parts of boiler water ppm . The preferred minimum is considered to be about 5 ppm. Based on economic considerations, the upper limit for the organic acid dosage is considered to be about 150 ppm while 50 ppm represents the preferred maximum. With respect to the polymeric organic acids, it is well known that molecular weight is not critical. In any event, a molecular weight of from about 1000 to about200,000 is believed to be operable.The Neutralizing Agent Suitable amines for use as neutralizing agents in accordance with the present invention have already been described as alpha amines. The important properties of these amines are, first, that they are volatile under the operating conditions of the boiler and, second, that they have sufficient basicity to neutralize the organic acid dispersant. Defining the first property in terms of distribution ratio and the second in terms of basicity constant, pKb, alpha amines are those having a distribution ratio of 0.01 or greater under the operating conditions of the boiler and a PKb of 8.0 or less. The distribution ratio, DR, is defined as the quantity of volatile amine found in the steam phase over the quantity found in the bulk fluid and is represented by DR ppm amine in steam I ppm amine in blowdown The values for this ratio, of course, are easily obtained by draw ing a condensed steam sample and a blowdown sample from the boiler and analyzing for respective amine contents. The basicity constant is a well known comparison for basicities of amines in terms of their respective abilities to accept hydronium ion from water. Using the reaction EMI12.1 the basicity constant, pKb, is defined by EMI12.2 Each amine has its own pKb, and, the lower the value, the stronger the base. As is well known to the artisan, tabulated values for pK s are readily obtainable from numerous chemical reference books. For example, a table of such values can be found in the Handbook of Chemistry and Physics , The Chemical Rubber Co., 45thEdition 1964 1965 , p. D 76. Following is an exemplary list of alpha amines believed to be suitable for use in accordance with the present invention morpholine aminomethylpropanol AMP dimethyl aminomethyl propanol DMAMP cyclohexylamine dimethylpropanolamine DMPA di ethyl ami noethanol N hexylamine methoxypropylamine MPA benzyl amine ammonia monoisopropanolamine 1,6 hexanediamine 1,3 diaminopropane tributylamine tri ethyl amine n amylamine n methyl morphol i ne N,N dimethyl 1,3 propanediamine. EXAMPLESDetermining Distribution RatiosExample 1 A first series of tests were conducted to determine theDR s of various amines using a research boiler similar to the one schematically illustrated in Figure 3. Two fiberglass feed tanks were filled with a total of 600 liters of deionized water which was deaerated by nitrogen sparging for two hours.At the end of the deaeration period one tank was charged with 50 ppm amine, while the other was charged with various chemicals to provide boiler test water as follows P alkalinity 200 ppm residual silica 20 ppm, added as sodium metasilicate residual phosphate 20 ppm, added as sodium dihydrogen phosphate residual sulfite 20 ppm, added as sodium sulfite calcium hardness 10 ppm, added as calcium chloride magnesium hardness 5 ppm, added as magnesium sulfate cycles of concentration 15 ppm 02 level after N2 sparging 0.25 0.5 ppmThe boiler was energized and allowed to come to equilibrium overnight at 100 psig. On the second through fifth days two sets of samples each set consisted of a steam sample and a blowdown sample were taken per pressure step at a minimum of one hour and a maximum of one and a half hours between sets at a given pressure .The samples, refrigerated during the accumulation stage in glass containers, were then analyzed using standard gas chromatographic procedures under the following conditions G.C. unit Perkin Elmer Model 990 Detector s Thermal conductivity or flame ionization Column Size 6 x 2 mm id Pyrex Packing 14 Carbowax 20 M 2 KOH on 80 100 mesh Supelcoport Oven Temperature llO C Carrier Gas N2 at 20 ml min at 40 psig Sample Size 1gxl Injection Temperature 105 C. The resulting distribution ratios, calculated according to equation I , are reported below in Table 1. Also reported are the dissociation constants, pKb, for the materials tested. TABLE 1 DR VALUES AT VARIOUS PRESSURESCompound Pressure psig DR PKhMorpholine 0 0.4 5.7 100 1.0 200 1.6 300 1.4 400 1.2 500 1.2 600 1.3 700 1.2 900 1.3 1100 1.3 1300 1.3 1450 1.2 aminomethyl propanol 0 0.1 4.18 100 0.5 200 1.0 300 0.8 400 0.8 500 0.9 600 0.8 700 0.8 900 0.9 1100 0.9 1300 0.9 1450 0.9 TABLE 1 Continued Compound Pressure psig DR PKh cyclohexylamine 0 2 3.4 100 9.3 200 23 300 20 400 8.0 500 6.7 600 6.6 700 6.1 900 5.3 1100 4.7 1300 4.4 1450 4.1 ammonia 0 10.0 4.75 100 7.1 200 7.1 300 6.3 400 5.0 500 5.3 600 4.2 700 4.2 900 3.9 1100 3.6 1300 3.4 1450 1.6 Example 2 An investigation was undertaken to determine the possible effects, if any, of boiler chemicals or water quality on DR. The testing method used was similar to that reported in Example 1. In the present test, however, water pt, alkalinity was increased by a factor of two and in the comparative without chemical tests, the hardness, phosphates and silicates were removed completely. Some results of these tests are reported below in Table 2 in terms of comparative average DR values with chemicals and without chemicals.All DR s reported are averages of at least two to nine separate data points. TABLE 2 EFFECT OF BOILER CHEMICALS OR WATER QUALITY ON DISTRIBUTION RATIO Average DR Average DRCompound Pressure With Chemicals Without Chemicals morpholine 400 1.3 1.0 700 1.2 1.2 1450 1.2 1.4 cyclohexylamine 400 7.9 8.3 100 5.8 7.1 1450 3.8 5.0 aminomethylpropanol 400 0.9 0.7 700 0.8 0.8 1450 0.9 1.1 The results of Table 2 are seen to indicate that over the pressure range of interest, with respect to practicing the present invention, no significant effect on DR was noted due to either the absence of boiler chemicals or an increase in alkalinity.Example 3 Also investigated was the effect, if any, of increased neutralizing amine concentration on the various DR s. This was accomplished by simply doubling the amine concentration from 50 ppm to 100 ppm and comparing the results. A testing method similar to that reported in Example 1 was used. The amines tested were morpholine and cyclohexylamine. The results of these tests are reported below in Table 3 in terms of comparative average DR at 50 ppm and 100 ppm. TABLE 3 EFFECT OF AMINE CONCENTRATION ON DR Average DR Average DRCompound Pressure psig at 50 ppm at 100 ppm morpholine 400 1.2 1.2 500 1.2 1.2 600 1.3 1.4 700 1.2 1.3 900 1.3 1.3 1100 1.3 1.3 1300 1.3 1.2 1450 1.3 1.2 cyclohexylamine 400 8.2 7.3 500 6.6 7.0 600 6.4 7.2 700 5.9 6.6 900 5.2 5.6 1100 4.7 4.7 1300 4.6 4.0 1450 4.1 4.3 Based on the results from Table 3, there is seen to be no significant effect of amine concentration on the DR. Of course, the individual values for quantity of amine present in the steam and blowdown samples increased significantly, but the magnitude of theDR still remained about the same.MAKING AMINE NEUTRALIZED ORGANIC ACIDExample 4 This example is seen to illustrate the preparation of an aqueous solution of alpha amine neutralized organic acid to be usedIn accordance with the present invention. The starting material was polymethacrylic acid PMA having the formula EMI20.1 which polymer had a molecular weight average of 6,000 to 12,000 as determined by gel permeation chromatography, using as reference a commercial sodium polymethacrylate of advertised molecular weight of 8,000 10,000. A stock solution is made by the following procedure 1. weigh out 250 g of tap water pH 8.2 2. add 65 g of PMA 30.85 actives 3. mix well 4. record pH and neutralize to desired pH with amine At this point, the 4 PMA solution is reweighed and the amount of amine used is recorded. The solution is brought to a final weight of 500 g and a final pH reading is taken. The tap water added increased the pH by about .2 units. The weights of the amine used to reach various pH s for numerous solutions actually made were as follows Solution 1 4 PMA stock solution, 500 g total weight, pH about 2.5Solution 2 Solution 1 neutralized to pH 7 with 17.5 g of morpholine final pH 7.2Solution 3 Solution 1 neutralized to pH 7 with 18.0 g of AMP final pH 7.1Solution 4 Solution 1 neutralized to pH 7 with 17.2 g of cyclohexylamine final pH 7.0Solution 5 Solution 1 neutralized to pH 9.5 with 211.3 g of morpholine final pH 9.7 this solution less than 4 PMA Solution 6 Solution 1 neutralized to pH 10 with 25.5 g of AMP final pH 10.0 Solution 7 Solution 1 neutralized to pH 7 with 15.5 g of morpholine, then to pH 10.8 with 59.7 g of AMP final pH 10.9Solution 8 Solution 1 neutralized to pH 7 with 18.2 g of morpholine, then to pH 10.9 with 53.7 g of cyclohexylamine final pH 11.1Solution 9 Solution 1 neutralized to pH 7 with 18.4 g of morpholine, then to pH 9.8 with 46.8 g of AMP final pH 10.1Solution 10 Solution 1 neutralized to pH 7 with 19.0 g of morpholine to pH 9 with 11.1 g of AMP, then to pH 11 with 37.9 g of cyclohexylamine final pH 11.0Solution 11 Solution 1 neutralized to pH 7 with 24.1 g of morpholine, to pH 9 with 15.3 g of AMP, then to pH 11 with 8.9 g of sodium hydroxide anhydrous final pH 11.5Solution 12 Solution 1 neutralized to pH 8 with 21.2 g of morpholine final pH 8.0Solution 13 Solution 1 neutralized. to pH 7.5 with 22 g of AMP final pH 8.0Solution 14 Solution 1 neutralized to pH 8 with 20.9 g of cyclohexylamine final pH 8.1 Example 5 This example is seen to further illustrate the preparation of an aqueous solution of alpha amine neutralized organic acid to be used in accordance with the present invention. The starting material was Acrysol A 41, commercially available from Rohm andHaas. It is a copolymer of methacrylic and acrylic acid, having a molecular weight average of about 10,000 12,000 and a mole ratio of methacrylic acid to acrylic acid of about 9 1. A stock solution is made according to the same procedural steps set forth in the preceding example, however, 71.5 g of Acrysol A 41 28 actives was used instead of the PMA. The weights of the amine used to reach various pH s for numerous solutions actually made were as follows Solution 1 4 copolymer stock solution, 500 g total weight, pH about 2.65Solution 2 Solution 1 neutralized to pH 7 with 19.3 g of morpholine final pH 7.2Solution 3 Solution 1 neutralized to pH 7 with 20.2 g of AMP final pH 7.2Solution 4 Solution 1 neutralized to pH 7 with 23 g of cyclohexylamine final pH 7.6 Solution 5 Solution 1 neutralized to pH 9.2 with 129.6 g of morpholine final pH 9.4 not stable at this pH Solution 6 Solution 1 neutralized to pH 10 with 43.6 g of AMP final pH 10.2Solution 7 Solution 1 neutralized to pH 10 with 35.5 g of cyclohexylamine final pH 10.1Solution 8 Solution 1 neutralized to pH 7 with 21.7 g of morpholine, then to pH 9 with 13.6 g of AMP, then to pH 10.8 with 114 g of cyclohexylamine final pH 11.1EFFICACY OF TREATMENT IN BOILERExample 6 A series of tests were conducted to determine the efficacy of alpha amine neutralized organic acids as boiler water treatments. The tests were conducted in the research boiler described in Example 1 and schematically illustrated in Figure 3. As already noted, certain boilers are highly susceptible to caustic corrosion as a result of iron oxide deposits formed on interior surfaces. Thus, any treatment which will prevent the formation of iron oxide deposits is considered to be a highly desirable supplement for a coordinated phosphate pH control program. Since the research boiler was electrically powered using immersion heating probes, deposits formed directly on probe surfaces. On completion of the tests, the deposits formed on the heat ing probes were analyzed to determine the quantity of iron oxide present and the total amount of deposit. During the tests performed, boiler conditions included a coordinated phosphate pH control program, 15 cycles of concentration, operating pressure of 1450 psig, 3.4 ppm Fe 2 contaminated feedwater, and boiler probes of differing heat flux values.One probe had a heat flux value of 240,000 BTU ft2 hr while the other had a heat flux of 185,000 BTU ft2 hr. Test durations were 2 days. The feedwater had the following composition 7.5 ppm NaHC03 0.04 ppm Silica 8.2 ppm Tri sodium phosphate 0.2 ppm antifoam polyalkylene glycol 6 ppm NaN03 for conductivity 16.7 ppm FeS04 3.4 ppm Fe The tests included comparative studies of alpha amineneutralized polymeric acid dispersants with commonly used polymeric acid dispersants as sodium salts.The materials tested were as follows Comparative Product X Commercial sodium polymethacrylate, reported molecular weight 6,000 8,000 Comparative Product Y Commercial sodium polymethacrylate, reported molecular weight 8,000 10,000 Product A Polymeric acid starting material of Example 5, neutralized with AMP, pH 10.0, stored at 1200F for three months before testingProduct 8 Polymeric acid starting material of Example 5, neutralized with morpholine, pH 8.0, stored at 1200F for three months before testingProduct C Polymeric acid starting material of Example 4, neutralized with morpholine and AMP, pH 10.3, stored at 120OF for three months before testingProduct D Polymeric acid starting material of Example 4, neutralized with morpholine, pH 8.1, stored at 1200F for three months before testing The results of these tests are reported below in Table 4 in terms of amount of iron deposition in gIft2 on the probes. TABLE 4EFFICACY IN BOILERDosage Residual 240,000 BTU ft2 hr. 185,000 BTU ft2 hr.Treatment ppm polymer pH Range PO4 ppm Fe as Fe2O3 Total Fe as Fe2O3 TotalNone 6.3 10.5 15 2.94 5.68 2.53 5.00None 9.4 10.4 35 2.86 3.84 2.64 3.88None 8.5 8.8 35 0.88 2.13 1.32 2.25Product X 20 9.4 10.4 35 0.92 1.29 1.03 1.27Product Y 20 10.1 10.7 35 1.04 1.63 0.47 0.62Product A 20 10.2 10.3 40 0.40 1.22 0.29 0.67Product B 20 9.8 10.2 38 0.48 1.00 0.61 0.96Product C 20 9.4 9.9 25 0.41 0.94 0.23 0.57Product D 20 9.6 9.8 25 0.21 0.72 0.12 0.43 Based on the results reported in Table 4, not only are treatments according to the present invention considered to be efficacious for boiler water, but they are seen to compare favorably with treatments containing the sodium salts of the organic acids. Accordingly, the coordinated phosphate pH corrosion control treatment can be supplemented with an organic acid treatment in a form which will neither adversely affect the critical Na P04 nor increase the solids level in the boiler water. It should be kept in mind that the stronger the basicity of the alpha amine neutralizing agent, the less amine required to neutralize the polymeric acid dispersant. To avoid problems related to fungi growth, higher pH formulations, e.g., above 8.5, are preferred. A preferred supplemental treatment composition for use with the coordinated phosphate pH corrosion control treatment isSolution 1 of Example 5 neutralized to pH 8.5 with 27.3 grams of morpholine. Having thus described the invention, what is claimed is