# Method for preparing zeolite ZSM12 and zeolite prepared by this method.

## Abstract
A method of preparing a zeolite ZSM 12 type crystal which comprises crystallizing substantially pure ZSM 12 from a silica and optionally alumina gel mixture in the pre sence of a methyltriethylammonium cation, and the ZSM 12 product produced thereby.

## Claims
Claims 1. A method for preparing zeolite ZSM 12 which comprises preparing a reaction mixture containing a source of an alkali metal oxide, an oxide of silicon, an oxide of aluminum, methyltriethylammonium ion, and water and having a composition, in terms of mole ratios of oxides, falling within the following ranges Si02 A1203 40 M2O MTEA 2O 0.2 to 2.0 H20 OH 50 to 400 OH Si02 0.05 to 0.35 wherein M is an alkali or alkaline earth metal and MTEA is a methyltriethylammonium ion and maintaining said mixture under crystallization conditions until crystals of said zeolite are formed. 2. A method according to Claim 1 wherein said mixture has a composition in terms of mole ratios of oxides, falling within the following ranges SiO2 A1203 80 M20 MTEA 20 0.3 to 1.8 H20 OH 70 to 350 OH Si02 0.10 to 0.30 3. A method according to Claim 1 or Claim 2 wherein substantially no alumina is present. 4. A method according to any of Claims 1 to 3 wherein M is sodium. 5. Zeolite ZSM 12 whenever prepared by the method claimed in any of Claims 1 to 4.

## Description
Method of preparing ZSM 12This invention relates to a method of preparing a crystalline zeolite of the ZSM 12 family.ZSM 12 is a well known zeolite. Aluminum silicate forms of it are described in U.S. Specification 3,970,544, such forms conforming to this composition, in terms of mole ratios of oxides 1.0 0.4 M2 nO. Al2O3 . 20 200 SiO2 0 60 H20 wherein M is at least one cation having a valence n. The zeolite is defined by its lattice geometry, which gives rise to a definite X ray diffraction pattern which distinguishes it from other zeolites.This X ray diffraction pattern has the following significant lines TABLE 1Interplanar Spacing D A Relative Intensity I Io 11.9 0.2 m Zn 10.1 0.2 m 4.76 0.1 w 4.29 0.08 vs 3.98 0.08 m 3.87 0.07 vs 3.49 0.07 w 3 38 0.07 m 3.20 0.06 w 3.05 0.05 w 2.54 0.03 w These values were determined by standard techniques. The radiation was the K alpha doublet of copper and a dif fractometer equipped with a scintillation counter and a strip chart recorder was used.The peak heights, I, and their positions were read from the diffractometer chart.From these, the relative intensities, I Io, where it is the intensity of the strongest line or peak, and d AO , the interplanar spacing in AO, corresponding to the recorded lines, were calculated. In Table 1 the relative intensities are given in terms of the symbols VS Very strong, M medium,W weak. Different cationic forms of ZSM 12 reveal substantially the same pattern with some minor shifts in inter planar spacing and variation in relative intensity. Other minor variations can occur depending on the silicon toAluminum ratio of a particular sample and its thermal history.U.S.. Specification 3,970,544 describes the synthesis of ZSM12 from a reaction mixture containing tetraethylammonium TEA ions. We have now discovered that ZSM 12 material can be synthesized from a reaction mixture containing the cheap and available methyltriethylammonium MTEA cation. Because of the steric compatibility between the MTEA ion and theZSM 12 structure, the following advantages flow from employing MTEA cations instead of TEA 1 a broader range ofSi02 A1203 product mole ratio can be achieved 2 a reduction in crystallization time 3 larger crystals and 4 elimination of any necessity for an aging step in the preparation of the zeolite. Quaternary compounds prepared from methyl halides are less expensive due to the high reactivity of the methyl halide.According to the present invention, zeolite ZSM 12 is prepared from a reaction mixture containing a source of silica, optionally a source of alumina, methyltriethylammonium ion MTEA , an alkali metal oxide, e.g. sodium, and water, and having the composition in terms of mole ratios of oxides REACTANTS BROAD PREFERREDSi02 A1203 40 80M20 MTEA 20 0.2 2.0 0.3 1.8H20 OH 50 400 70 350OH Si02 0.05 0.35 0.10 0.30 wherein M is alkali metal, and maintaining the mixture at crystallization temperature until crystals of the zeolite material are formed. When no source of alumina is employed the value of the ratio Si02 A1203 will of course be infinite.A crystalline material is routinely identified by comparing its X ray diffraction pattern with those of reference materials.As a matter of convenience the air dried sample is used to determine the X ray diffraction pattern. If a dehydrated sample of a zeolite is examined by this method, changes in relative intensities of the lines and small differences in line positions are usually observed and can be correlated with the nature and position of the cations present. The Xray diffraction pattern of zeolite ZSM 12 crystallized in the presence of tetraethylammonium TEA ions is shown inFigure 1. Crystallization of ZSM 12 in the presence of methyltriethylammonium MTEA chloride gave the X ray diffraction pattern shown in Figure 2. The principal changes to be observed are 1 The somewhat broad line at 26.550, a poorly resolved doublet, is split into two well resolved peaks at 26.2 and 26.750. 2 The line at 23.20 is split into a doublet at 23.0 and 23.30. 3 The line at 29.25 is narrowed. 4 The intensity of the line at about 310 is increased considerably.In addition several lines are shifted slightly, e.g., 28.05 to 27.90 and 35.550 to 35.7 . Upon calcination for 1 hour at 6000C of the two samples the X ray diffraction patterns became essentially identical.The minor differences observed can be attributed to the larger crystallite size of the MTEA prepared sample.The results suggest that the methyltriethylammonium ion fits into the structure of ZSM 12 more easily and imparts less strain own the framework than the tetraethylammonium ion.This conclusion is supported by the growth of the crystals to larger size than with TEA ions. It has also been found that ZSM 12 crystallizes from reaction mixtures containingMTEA ions without prior aging, whereas similar mixtures withTEA ions yielded ZSM 12 only when crystallized after prior aging, and zeolite ZSM 5 without aging.Table 2 sets forth numerically the X ray or traces of the drawings. TABLE 2ZSM 12 TEA ZSM 12 MTEA d I Io d I Io 11.79 S 11.95 S 10.05 M 10.05 M 6.02 VW 5.86 VW 4.72 M 4.74 N 4.67 M 4.64 W 4.42 W 4.42 W 4.25 VS 4.24 VS 4.06 VW 4.06 VM 3.97 M 3.97 M 3.83 S 3.86 S 3.81 S 3.72 VW 3.62 VW 3.64 VW 3.53 W 3.45 M 3.46 M 3.40 M 3.35 M 3.325 M 3.18 W 3.20 W 3.13 VM 3.05 VW 3.06 W 2.88 VM 2.90 W 2.83 VW 2.82 VW 2.64 VM 2.66 VW 2.59 VM 2.59 VW 2.52 W 2.51 M 2.43 VW 2.43 W 2.34 VW 2.34 W 2.33 W 2.04 W 2.04 WCrystallization can be carried out under either static or stirred condition. In the Examples static conditions were employed using polypropylene jars at 100 C or teflon lined stainless steel autoclaves at 1600C. The total useful range of temperatures is 800C to 1800C for about 6 hours to 150 days.Thereafter, the zeolite crystals are separated from the liquid and recovered. Reaction mixtures can include sodium silicate, silica hydrosol, silica gel, silicic acid, and sodium hydroxide, and methyltriethylammonium compounds e.g. MTEACl . The reaction mixture can be prepared either batch wise or continuously. Crystal size and crystallization time vary with the nature of the reaction mixture employed and the crystallization conditions.The zeolite can be in the form of a powder, a granule, or a molded product, such as an extrudate having particle size sufficient to pass through a 2 mesh Tyler screen and be retained on a 400 mesh Tyler screen. In cases where a catalyst is molded, such as by extrusion, it can be extruded before drying or dried or partially dried and then extruded.Zeolite ZSM 12 can be used as a catalyst in initimate combination with a hydrogenating component such as tungsten, vanadium, molybdenum, rhenium, nickel, cobalt, chromium, manganese, or a noble metal such as platinum or palladium where a hydrogenation dehydrogenation function is to be performed. Such component can be exchanged into the composition, impregnated therein or physically intimately admixed therewith. Such component can be impregnated in or on to it such as, for example, by, in the case of platinum,. treating the zeolite with a solution containing a platinum metal containing ion. Thus, suitable platinum compounds include chloroplatinic acid, platinous chloride and various compounds containing the tetrammineplatinum complex.The metal, hydrogen, ammonium and methyltriethylammonium forms of ZSM 12 can be beneficially converted to a catalyti cally applicable form by thermal treatment, generally by heating in an atmosphere such as air, nitrogen, steam etc., at a temperature of at least 371 20C 7000F for at least 1 minute and generally not more than 20 hours to remove part or all of the water and the organic constituent. While subatmospheric pressure can be employed for the thermal treatment, atmospheric pressure is desired for reasons of convenience. The thermal treatment can be performed at a temperature up to about 926 70C 17000F . The thermally treated product is particularly useful in the catalysis of certain hydrocarbon conversion reactions.Simple dehydratidn can also be performed at ambient temperatures such as merely by placing the zeolite in a vacuum, but a longer time is required to obtain a sufficient amount of dehydration.It is often desirable to composite the zeolite with another material resistant to the temperatures and other conditions employed in organic conversion processes. Suitable binders and matrices are described in our European Specification 0001695.Employing a catalytically active form of the ZSM 12 type catalyst of this invention which may contain additional hydrogenation components, reforming stocks can be reformedemploying a temperature between 371 20C 7000F and 537 80C 10000F . The pressure can be between 790 9kPa 100 psig and 6996 lkPa 1000 psig but is preferably between 14803kPa 200 psig and 4927 7kPa 700 psig . The liquid hourly space velocity is generally between 0.1 and 10, preferably between 0.5 and 4 and the hydrogen to hydrocarbon mole ratio is generally between 1 and 20 preferably between 4 and 12. The catalyst can also be used for hydroisomerization of normal paraffins, when provided with a hydrogenation component, e.g., platinum. Hydroisomerization is carried out at a temperature between 93 40C 2000F and 371 20C 7000F preferably 148 9 C 3000F to 287 80C 5500F with a liquid hourly space velocity between 0.01 and 2, preferably between 0.25 and 0.50 employing hydrogen such that the hydrogen to hydrocarbon mole ratio is between 1 1 and 5 1. Additionally, the catalyst can be used for oleo in or aromatic isomerization employing temperatures between 1.20C 300F and 371 20C 7000F .The catalyst can also be used for reducing the pourpoint of gas oils. This reduction is carried out at a liquid hourly space velocity between about 10 and about 30 and a temperature between about 426 70C 8000F and about 593 40C 11000F . Other reactions which can be accomplished employing the catalyst of this invention containing a metal, e.g., platinum, include hydrogenation dehydrogenation reactions and desulfurization reactions, olefin polymerization oligomerization and other organic compound conversion such as the conversion of alcohols e.g. methanol to hydrocarbon.In the Examples which follow adsorption data were determined as follows A weighed sample of the calcined adsorbent was contacted with the desired pure adsorbate vapor in an adsorption chamber, evacuated to 1 mm and contacted with 12 mm Hg water vapor or 20 mm Hg of cyclohexane or n hexane vapor, pressures less than the vapor liquid equilibrium pressure of the respective adsorbate at room temperature. The pressure was kept constant within about 0.5 mm by addition of adsorbate vapor controlled by a manostat during the adsorption period which did not exceed about eight hours. As adsorbate was adsorbed, the decrease in pressure caused the manostat to open a valve which admitted more adsorbate vapor to the chamber to restore the above control pressures. Sorption was complete when the pressure change was not sufficient to activate the manostat.The increase in weight was calculated as the adsorption capacity of the sample. in g 100g of calcined adsorbent.EXAMPLES 1 7Aluminum nitrate and sodium hydroxide were dissolved in the amount of water specified in Table 3. Methyltriethylammonium chloride aqueous solution C50 .was added. Finally, Hi Sil, a precipitated and dried silica containing about 90 Ski02, remainder water, was added, and the mixture was agitated until a smooth consistency was obtained. The preparation and, in some examples, aging of the bench scale reaction mixtures was carried out in polypropylene vessels. The mixtures were transferred into teflon line pressure vessels which were then sealed and heated by immersion in a silicone oil batch. These mixtures were not agitated during crystallization.In the scale up preparations of Examples 2 and 3 a 5 gal autoclave equipped with a stirrer and heated with steam was used. The reaction mixture was prepared and, in Example 3, aged in the autoclave prior to crystallization. The stirrer was operated at 90 rpm to ensure a good heat transfer in the heat up and crystallization periods.The crystalline products were filtered, washed with water and dried at ambient temperature bench scale preparations or at 1200C in a drying oven scale up runs . The results are summarized in Table 3, in which the amounts of H2 0 furnished in the formulations represent pure water added to the reaction mixture as such. TABLE 3 preparation of ZSM 12 Type Zeolite With MTEA Cl SolutionExampleFormulation 1 2 3 4 5 6 7Hi Sil, g. 48 2400 2400 48 60 48 48Al NO3 3 9H2O, g. 1 80 80 1 2 NaOH 4.8 250 250 4.8 6.25 4.5 4.5MTEA Cl 50 ,g. 50 1410 1410 50 32.25 50 25H2O 230 10,800 10,800 225 270 225 225Aging of None None R.T. for 24 Hrs. 24 Hrs.None NoneReaction Mixture 96 Hrs. at 50 C at 50 CCrystallizationTemp. C F 160 320 160 320 160 320 160 320 160 320 160 320 Time, Hour 120 90 69 190 118 163 163Agitation,rpm None 90 90 None None None NoneProperty of ProductCrystallinity 100 Crystalline 105 100 100 90 90ZSM 12Type Trace ZSM 5SiO2 Al2O3 194 124.9 118 174 97 217 214H2O Adsorption g 100g of zeolite7.9 11.9 6.5 8.0 7.2 8.5 8.1CyC6Adsorption g 100g of zeolite7.6 5.6 5.2 7.7 7.2 7.4 7.4 nC6 Adsorption 6.5 6.9 6.9 6.4 6.1 6.7 6.5 g 100g of zeolite Based on the product of Example 4 Chemical analysis of the products of Examples 1 7 follows below in Table 4. TABLE 4Chemical AnalysisProduct of Example SiO2 Al2O3 Na2O C N Ash SiO2 Al2O3 1 85.8 0.75 0.61 5.76 0.95 98.9 194 2 86.0 1.17 1.29 6.07 1.04 88.8 125 3 83.4 1.20 1.62 5.81 1.03 88.8 118 4 85.9 0.84 0.62 5.72 0.93 90.2 174 5 85.7 1.5 0.62 5.63 1.02 89.9 97 6 85.6 0.67 0.55 NA 0.99 89.9 217 7 85.5 0.68 0.54 5.63 1.02 89.9 214