# Process for preparing 2,2 methylene bis 4 hydrocarbyl 6 benzo triazolylphenols .

## Abstract
A process is provided for preparing 2,2 methylene bis 4 hydrocarbyi 6 benzotriazoly1 phenols having formula III

## Claims
Claims 1. A process for preparing 2,2 methylene bis 4hydrocarbyl 6 benzotriazolyl phenols having formula Ttt EMI13.1 wherein R is selected from the group consisting of alkyl having from one to about twelve carbon atoms arylalkyl having from seven to about fourteen carbon atoms and cycloalkyl having from three to about twelve carbon atoms X is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, alkyl having from one to about twelve carbon atoms, aryl having from six to ten carbon atoms, arylalkyl having from seven to about sixteen carbon atoms, alkoxy having from one to about twelve carbon atoms, aryloxy having from six to ten carbon atoms and arylalkoxy having from seven to about sixteen carbon atoms comprising 1 reacting a 4 hydrocarbyl 6 benzotriazolyl phenol having the formula t EMI13.2 with an amine HNR1R2 and formaldehyde in an organic solvent to produce a Mannich base having formula Th EMI14.1 R1 and R2 are selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl having from one to about six carbon atoms, and R1 and R2 taken together to form a four to six member heterocyclic ring including a nitrogen atoms provided, that at least one of R1 and R2 is not hydrogen and 2 reacting the Mannich base with itself or a 4 hydrocarbyl 6 benzotriazolyl phenol having formula 1, thereby forming a 2,2 methylene bis 4 hydrocarbyl 6 benz otriazolyl phenol of formula m, 2. A process according to claim 1 in which the reaction temperature in steps 1 and 2 is within the range from about 20 to about 200 C. 3. A process according to claim 1 in which the reaction temperature in steps 1 and 2 is within the range from about 30 to about 1500C. 4. A process according to one or more of the claims 1 to 3 in which an inert organic solvent that is a solvent for the reactants is used in an amount within the range from about 50 to about 500 by weight of the benzotriazolyl phenol. 5. A process according to one or more of the claims 1 to 4 in which the amounts of amine and formaldehyde in step 1 are within the range from about 0.5 to about 1 mole per mole of benzotriazolyl phenol. 6. A process according to one or more of the claims 1 to 5 in which step 2 is carried out in the presence of an alkaline catalyst in an amount within the range from about 0.001 to about 50 parts by weight per 100 parts of Mannich base. 7. A process according to claim 1 in which step 2 is carried out in the presence of an alkaline catalyst in an amount within the range from about 0.01 to about 8 parts by weight per 100 parts of Mannich base. 8. A process according to one or more of the claims 1 to 7 in which the alkaline catalyst is a lower alkali metal alcoholate. 9. A process according to one or more of the claims 1 to 7 in which the alkaline catalyst is a lower alkali metal hydroxide. 10. A process according to one or more of the claims 1 to 7 in which the alkaline catalyst is a lower alkali metal alkaline salt.

## Description
2,2 Methylene bis 4 hydrocarbyl 6 benzotriazolyl phenols are known light stabilizers for plastics, and a process for preparing them is disclosed in Chemical Abstracts 74 53666f 1971 and 77 62720h 1972 . U.S. patent No. 3,936,305, patented February 3, 1976, toHiraishi, Futaki, Boric and Yamashita, discloses a group of alXylidene bis benzotria3olyl phenols having the formula EMI1.1 wherein R1 is an alkyl group having 1 to 13, preferably 5 to 13 carbon atoms, R2 is an alkyl group having 1 to 18 carbon atoms and X is hydrogen, a halogen, an alkyl, an alkoxy, an arylcsy, an aralkyloxy or an aryl group. These compounds are prepared by a synthesis illustrated for 2, 2 octylidene bis 4 methyl 6 5 methylbenzotriazolyl phenol . Dried hydrogen chloride is introduced into a benzene solution containing 129.6 g of p cresol, 64.1 g of n caprylaldehyde and 2 ml of n dodecylmercaptan at room temperature for 4 hours. This is left to stand overnight at room temperature. Thereafter, the reaction liquid is washed with water, washed with IN aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate until the wash liquid shows weak These compounds are prepared by a synthesis illustrated for 2, 2 octylidene bis 4 rnethy 1 6 5 methy ibenzotriazoly 1 phenol . Dried hydrogen chloride is introduced into a benzene solution containing 129.6 g of p cresol, 64.1 g of n caprylaldehyde and 2 ml of n dodecylmercaptan at room temperature for 4 hours. This is left to stand overnight at room temperature. Thereafter, the reaction liquid is washed with water, washed with IN aqueous solution Cf sodium bicarbonate until the wash liquid shows weak acidicity and then again washed with water. After the benzene layer is dried, the solvent is distilled out and the residue is distilled under reduced pressure to obtain a fraction d 165 175 C 1 Torr.The fraction is recrystallized from n hexane to obtain white crystal of 2, octylidene bis 4 methylphenol having a melting point af 107. 8 108. 8t. Separately, 120 ml d concentrated hydrochloric acid and 40 ml of water are added to 60. 8 g of 4 methyl 2 nitroaniline and these are sufficiently sitrred. Thereafter, 50 ml of water containing 28. 9 g of sodium nitrite is added dropwise thereto at over a period of 10 minutes. Furthermore, this is stirred for another 100 minutes and a small amount d sullamic acid is added thereto and undissolved matter is filtered off to obtain a diazonium solution. 32.6 g of 2, 2 octylidene bis 4 methylphenol obtained hereinabove is dissolved in a mixed solvent of 300 ml of methyl alcohol and 200 ml of acetone in which 50 g of sodium hydroxide is dissolved. To this solution is added dropwise said diazonium solution with stirring at a temperature of 0 10 C. After stirring for another 2 hours, glacial acetic acid is added thereto to obtain a pH of 4. Thus obtained oily product is recrystallized from ethanol. 6.5 g of this 2, 2 octylidene bis 4 methyl 6 4 methyl 2 nitrophenylazo phenol is suspended in 100 ml of ethanol and heated to reflux temperature. 50 ml of water containing 8.4 g of sodium hydroxide is added to the suspension and furthermore, 6.5 g of zinc powder is added little by little. Refluxing is further carried out for 1 hour. Thereafter, the zinc powder is filtered out with warm and pH of the filtrate is made 4 5 with IN hydrochloric acid to separate crystal, which is filtered off. The crystal is recrystallized from ethanol to obtain the 2,2 octylidene bis 4 methyl 6 5 methyl benzotriazolyl phenol . Chemical Abstracts 74 53666f 1971 discloses the preparation of methylene bis benzotriazolyl phenols by reacting 2, 2 methylenebis phenolwith an o nitrodiazonium salt, followed by hydrogenating the resultant azo compound. However, the yield is rather low, and the product contains a monosubstituted impurity. Chemical Abstracts 77 62720h 1972 discloses the preparation of methylene bis benzotriazolyl phenols by reacting benzotriazolyl phenol with formaldehyde in sulfuric acid. However, the yield in this method is also low, and the reaction conditions are impractical. In accordance with this invention, a process is provided which enables the preparation of 2, 2 methylene bis 4 hydrocarbyl 6 benzotriazolyl phenols under mild conditions in high yield. A 4 hydrocarbyl 6 benzotriazolyl phenol of formula I is reacted with the corresponding amine HNR1R2 and formaldehyde in an organic solvent to produce a Mannich base of formula II. The Mannich base is reacted with itself or a 4 hydrocarbyl 6 benzotriazolyl phenol of formula 1, thereby forming the desired 2, 2 methylene bis 4 hydrocarbyl 6 benZotriazolyl phenol. The following is an outline of the reactions in this synthesis.EMI4.1 In the above formulae, R is selected from the group consisting af alkyl having from one to about twelve carbon atoms arylalkyl having from seven to about fourteen carbon atoms and cycloalkyl having from three to about twelve carbon atoms X is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, alkyl having from one to about twelve carbon atoms, acryl having from six to ten carbon atoms, arylalkyl having from seven to about sixteen carbon atoms, alkoxy having from one to about twelve carbon atoms, aryloxy having from six to ten carbon atoms arid arylalkoxy having from seven to about sixteen carbon atoms R1 and R2 are selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl having from one to about six carbon atoms, and R1 and R2 taken together to form a four to six member heterocyclic ring including a nitrogen atom provided, that at least one of R1 and R2 is not hydrogen. The invention accordingly provides a process for preparing alkylidene bis benzotriazolyl phenols of Formula T11, comprising 1 reacting a 4 hydrocarbyl 6 benzotriazolyl phenol having the formula 1 EMI5.1 with an amine HNR1R2 and formaldehyde in an organic solvent to produce a Mannich base having formula.Th EMI5.2 2 reacting the Mannich base with itself or a 4 hydrocarbyl6 benzotriazolyl phenol having fromula 1, thereby forming a 2, 2 m ethy lene bis 4 hydrocarbyl 6 benzotriazolyl phenol of formula m. Exemplary R alkyl include methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, t butyl, amyl, isoamyl, hexyl, heptyl, octyl, isooctyl, 2 ethyThexyl, 1,1,3,3 tetramethylbutyl, nonyl, decyl, dodecyl Exemplary R at alkyl include benzyl, a methylbenzyl, cumyl, phenethyl, phenpropyl, phenbutyl, phenoctyl, trim ethyl benzyl, butyl benzyl, hexyl benzyl, dibutyl benzyl Exemplary cycloalkyl include cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl, cyclooctyl, and cyclododecyl Exemplary X halogen include fluorine, chlorine and bromine, exemplary X alkyl include methyl, ethyl, propyl, isobutyl, isoamyl, and hexyl exemplary X alkoxy include methoxy, ethoxy, butoxy and octasy Exemplary amine HNR1R2 include primary alkyl amines such as monomethylamine, monoethylarn ine, monopropylamine and monobutylamine secondary alkyl amines such as dimethylamine, diethylamine, di n propylamine, diisopropylamine, di n butylamine, di t butylam ine, diisobutylamine, diamylamine, ethyl in ethylam ine and ethyl isopropylamine and heterocyclic amines such as morpholine, piperidine and pyrrolidine. Formaldehyde as such or in any of its polymeric forms can be used in the process Of this invention, such as gaseous formaldehyde aqueous solutions of formaldehyde paraformaldehyde trioxane trioxymethylene tetrawmethylene and other solid polymers of formaldehyde. Any inert organic solvent that is a solvent for the reactants can be used in this invention, including alkanols such as methanol, ethanol, isopropanol and n butanol hydrocarbons such as hexane, heptane, benzene, toluene, xylene, petroleum ethers, and mineral spirits and cycloaliphatic ethers such as furan, tetrihydrofuran and dioxane. The amount of solvent is not critical, and can suitably be within the range from about 50 to about 500 weight Sc based on the amount of benzotriazolyl phenol present. In the reaction Of 4 hydroc arby 1 6 benz otriazoly I phenol of formula I with amine and formaldehyde in the organic solvent, the amounts of amine and formaldehyde can be stoichiometric, or slightly less, and preferably each is within the range from about 0.5 to about 1 mole, per mole of 4 hydrocarbyl 6 benzotriazolyl phenol. The reaction of Mannich base with itself or 4 hydrocarbyl 6 benz otriaz olyl phenol to produce 2, m ethylenebis 4 hydrocarbyl 6 benzotriazolyl phenol is preferably carried out in the presence Of an alkaline catalyst. Examples of alkaline catalysts are lower alkali metal alcoholates, such as sodium methylate and sodium ethylate alkali metal hydroxides, such as sodium hydroxide and potassium hydroxide and alkali metal alkaline salts, such as potassium carbonate and sodium carbonate. The amount of the alkaline catalyst is not critical, and small amounts are usually sufficient. A preferred amount is within the range from 0. 001 to 50 parts by weight, preferably from 0.01 to 8 parts by weight, per 100 parts of Mannich base. The reactions can be carried out over a wide range of temperatures. A suggested range that is sattsfactory in most cases is from about 20 C to about 200 C, preferably from about 30 C to about 150 C. The following Examples represent preferred embodiments of the process of the invention. Example IPreparation of 2, 2 methylene bis 4 methyl 6 benzotriazolyl phenol 4 Methyl 6 benzotriazolyl phenol 225 g, diethylamine 110 g, and paraformaldehyde 51.8 g were dissolved in 250 ml of butanol, and heated with stirring at reflux temperature 95 C to 105t for 24 hours. The solvent was vacuum distilled off, and 308 g of 2 diethylam inom ethy 1 4 m ethy 1 6 benz otrphenol Mannich base was obtained as residue. Yield 99 This Mannich base, 7.8 g, was dissolved in 20 ml ixylene, and sodium methylate 28 methanol solution 0.15 g was added.The solution was heated with stirring under reflux at 140 C to 150 C for 10 hours while a nitrogen stream was passed through the reaction mixture. The solvent was vacuum distilled Off, and 6.1 g of crude product was obtained as residue. Purity 91 Yield 967c The crude product was recrystallized from xylene, and a pale yellow powder, 2,2 methylene bis 4 methyl 6 benzotriazolyl phenol melting at 285 9C was obtained. Example 2 Preparation of 2, m methylene bis 4 m ethyl 6 benz otriazoly l phenol 6.2 g of the Mannich base obtained in Example 1 and 4 methyl 6 benzotriazolyl phenol 4.5 g were dissolved in 200 ml of xylene, and sodium methylate 28 methanol solution 0.2 g was added. The solution was heated with stirring under reflux at 140 50 C for 10 hours with a stream of nitrogen. After distilling of the solvent, and recrystallizing the residue from xylene, the desired product 2,2 methylene bis 4 methyl 6 benzotriaz olyl phenol was obtained in 95 yield. Example 3Preparation d 2, 2 methylene bis 4 1,1,3,3 tetramethyl butyl 6 benzotriaz olyl phenol 2 Diethylam inomethyl 4 1, 1,3,3 tetramethyl butyl 6 benzotriazolyl phenol Mannich base was prepared using 4 1,1,3,3tetramethyl butyl 6 benzotriaz oly l phenol by the same proaedure as in Example 1. This Mannich base 37 g and 4 1, 1, 3, 3 tetramethyl butyl 6 benzotriazolyl phenol 25 g were dissolved in 60 ml of xylene, and sodium methylate 28 methanol solution 3.1 g was added. The solution was heated with stirring under reflux at 140 50 C for 10 hours with a stream of nitrogen. After distilling Of the solvent, and recrystallizing the residue from xylene, 55.2 g of the crude product was obtained. Purity 93 Yield 93 The crude product was recrystallized from n heptane, and a white powder, 2, 2 methylene bis 4 1,1,3,3 tetramethyl butyl 6benzotriazolyl phenol, melting at 200 C was obtained. Example 4Preparation of 2, methylene bis 4 cumyl 6 benzotriazolyl phenol 2 Diethylaminomethyl 4 cumy 1 6 benz otriaz oly l phenol Mannich base was prepared using 4 cumyl 6 benzotriazolyl phenol by the same procedure as in Example 1. This Mannich base 10.0 g and 4 cumyl 6 benzotriazolyl phenol 6.6 g were dissolved in 60 ml of xylene, and sodium methylate 28 methanol solution 3.1 g was added. A white crystalline product, 2, 2 methylene bis 4 cumyl 6 benzotriazolyl phenol melting at 190 0C was obtained. Yield 93 . Example 5Preparation of 2,2 methy lene bis 4 methyl 6 benz otriaz olyl phenol 31. 0 g Of the Mannich base obtained in Example 1 and methyl iodide 30 g were dissolved in 100 g of ethanol, and heated with stirring at reflux temperature 60 C to 75 C for 24 hours. The solvent was distilled off, and the pale yellow crystalline product methyl diethyl 2 hydroxy 3 benzotriaz oly 1 5 m ethy 3b enzy lam m onium iodide was obtained by recrystallization from ethanol. This product 9.0 g and sodium methylate 28ic methanol solution 4.0 g were dissolved in 40 g of butoxy ethoxy ethanol, and heated with stirring at reflux temperature 160 C to 170 C for 10 hours while a nitrogen stream was passed through the reaction mixture. The solvent was vacuum distilled off, and 6.1 g of crude product was obtained as residue. Purity 91 Yield 96 The crude product was recrystallized from xylene and the desired product, 2,2 methylene bis 4 methyl 6 benzotriazolyl phenol was obtained in 95 yield. The excellent yields obtained in the above Examples are to be contrasted with the yields when the process of Chemical Abstracts 77 62720h 1972 is used. Comparative Example A Preparation af 2,2 methylene bis 4 methyl 6 benzotriazolyl phenol 4 Methyl 6 benzotriazolyl phenol 22.5 g, paraformaldehyde 2.5 g and conc sulfuric acid 0.5 g were dissolved in 50 ml of xylene, and heated with stirring at reflux temperature 140 C to 1500C for 20 hours. The solution was washed with water. When the solvent was distilled off, 22.8 g of a dark brown crude product was obtained. The crude product contained only 16 of the desired product, 2, 2 methylene bis 4 methyl 6 benzotriazolyl phenol , and most of the crude product was unreacted 4 methyl 6 benzotriazolyl phenol. Comparative Example B Preparation of 2, 2 methylene bis 4 1, 1,3, 3 tetramethyl butyl 6 benzotriaz olyl phenol 4 1, 1,3, 3 Tetramethylbutyl 6 benzotriazolyl phenol 32.3 g and paraformaldehyde 2.5 g were dissolved in 100 ml Of methylene chloride, and 50 g of 80 sulfuric acid was added dropwise aver one hour. The solution was stirred at room temperature for 12 hours. The sulfuric layer was separated, and the methylene chloride layer washed with water and dried. The solvent was distilled off and 22.5 g of brown crude product was obtained. The crude product was consisting of 4 of unreacted 4 1, 1,3,3tetramethyl butyl 6 benzotriazolyl phenol, 31 of desired product, 2, 2 methylene bis 4 1, 1, 3, 3 tetramethyl butyl 6 benzotriazolyl phenol , methylenbis benzotriazolyl phenol compounds free from one or two 1,1, 3,3 tetramethylbutyl groups at the 4 position dealkylation products 52 , and 13 of other unknown compounds. The yield of the desired product was 24 .