# Amines via the amination of alkanols using dealuminated zeolites.

## Abstract
This invention pertains to an improved catalytic process for the amination of C₂ ₈ alkanols, the catalyst being a dealuminized zeolite having an increased Si Al molar ratio over original zeolite. A dealuminized H mordenite catalyst is particularly effective for the amination of ethanol to give selectively mono and diethylamine without the formation of triethylamine.

## Claims
What is claimed is 1. In a vapor phase catalytic amination process for the production of amines by reacting a reaction mixture comprising an C28 alkanol or C2 6 alkyl ether and. a nitrogen compound selected from the group consisting of ammonia and primary and secondary amines at a temperature and pressure sufficient for effecting formation of said amine, said reaction being carried out in the presence of the crystalline alumino silicate as a catalyst, the improvement which comprises the utilization of a crystalline alumino silicate which has been dealuminated. 2. The process of Claim 1 wherein said dealuminated crystalline alumino silicate has sufficient aluminum atoms removed to reduce the weight of alumina 10 90 by weight of the total alumina in the zeolite. 3. The process of Claim 2 wherein the reaction mixture comprises a C24 alkanol and the nitrogen compound is ammonia. 4. The process of Claim 3 where said crystalline alumino silicate which has been dealuminated is a Y zeolite or mordenite. 5. The process of Claim 4 wherein said dealuminated Y zeolite or mordenite is ion exchanged with a trivalent rare earth metal ion or hydrogen ion. 6. The process of Claim 5 wherein the Si to Al mole ratio is trom 6 100 1 for said mordenite and 2.5 15 1 for said Y zeolite. 7. The process of Claim 5 wherein the reaction mixture comprises ethanol and the mole ratio of ammonia to ethanol is from about 1 10 1. 9. The process of Claim 7 whereln the pressure utilized in carrying out the amination is from 100 2000 psig and the gas hourly space velocity is 500 12000 hrs 2151L

## Description
GAMINES VIA THE ANIMATION OF ALKANOLS USING DEALUMINATED ZEOLITES TECHNICAL FIELD This invention relates to a catalytic process for producing amines by the reaction of ammonia or ammonia type compound with C28 alkanol over partially dealuminated zeolites. BACKGROUND OF THE PRIOR ART The catalyzed reaction of ethanol and ammonia to produce the mono , di , and triethylamines is well known in the art. Presently, the ethylamines are produced commercially by a continuous process by reacting ethanol and ammonia in the presence of an amorphous silica alumina catalyst. This continuous process yields an equilibrium controlled distribution of the ethylamines. U.S. Patent 3,384,667 discloses a method for producing monosubstituted and disubstituted amines in preference to trisubstituted amines by reacting ammonia with an alcohol in the presence of a crystalline metal aluminosilicate catalyst having pores of a diameter that pass the monosubstituted and disubstituted amine products but are too small to pass the trisubstituted amine product. Hydrogen exchanged crystalline alumino silicates are defined as crystalline metal alumino silicates in the patent. U.S. Patent 4,082,805 discloses a process for the selective production of primary aliphatic amines by reaction of a C1C5 alcohol or ether with ammonia in the presence of a catalyst comprising a crystalline aluminosilicate having the structure of ZSM 5, ZSM ll orZSM 21, at 300 to 5000C and at one atmosphere to 1000 psig pressure, the feed rate of alcohol or ether and ammonia being within the ratio of 1 1 to 5 1 g hr. U.S. Patent 4.191,709 discloses a process for the manufacture of amines by reacting an alcohol with ammonia in the presence of the hydrogen form of zeolite FU 1 or zeolite FU 1 in which some or all of the protons have been replaced by bivalent or trivalent cations. The relatedU.S. Patent 4,205,012 is similar except that the catalyst comprises zeolite FU 1 in which some or all of the protons have been replaced by monovalent cations, for example, sodium. U.S. Patent 4.229,374 discloses a process for producing tertiary amines by reacting alcohols with ammonia, primary amines or secondary amines in the presence of a specific catalyst. The catalyst comprises a mixture of copper, tin and an alkali metal supported on a suitable carrier, such as artificial and natural zeolites. U.S. Patent 4,254,061 discloses a process for producing monomethylamine by reacting methanol and ammonia, in such amounts so as to provide a C N ratio, from the methanol and ammonia reactants, of 0.5 1,5, over a catalyst which is a mordenite wherein the primary cation is Li, Na, HNa having at least 2 Na by weight. K, Ca, Sr, Ba. Ce,Zn or Cr b ferrierite wherein the primary metal cation is Li, Na, K,Ca, Sr, Ba, Ce or Fe c erionite ore d calcium erionite or e clinoptilolite ore. U.S. 4,436,938 discloses a process for producing methylamines by reacting methanol or dimethyl ether and ammonia over a binder less zeoliteSA catalyst. The use of a binderless zeolite enhances selectivity to dimethylamine as opposed to mono or trimethylamine. SUMMERY OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to an improved process for the preparation of alkyl amines. by the vapor phase catalytic reaction of an alkanol having from 2 to 8 carbon atoms or C26 alkyl ether with ammonia or secondary amine. In the basic process the C28 alkanol or C25 alkyl ether is reacted at a temperature and pressure sufficient to effect formation of the amine and the improvement generally resides in the use of a partially dealuminated crystalline alumino silicate as the catalyst. There are several advantages associated with the invention as compared to prior art processes. These advantages include greater catalytic activity than is achieved with nondealuminated zeolite catalysts particularly in the formation of ethylamines better activity than H Y and rare earth Y zeolite at the higher temperature where the reaction becomes diffusion limited an ability to form a variety of alkyl amines at very high rates of alcohol conversion with significantly less oleo in make than other strong acidic Y zeolites an ability to form in high selectivity mono and diethyl amine with substantially complete elimination of the trisubstituted amine and outstanding catalyst life as in the case of Y zeolite, presumably caused by improved zeolite stability. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION The alkanols or ethers suited for the invention include the C28 alkanols and C26 alkylethers. Examples of alkanols or ethers suited for producing amines by this process are ethanol, propanol, butanol, isobutanol. hexanol and cyclohexanol. Of these, the C2 monoolefins alkanol, ethanol is preferred in practicing the invention. Alkylethers can also be aminated and these include diethylether, dimethylether, etc. In the amination of the alkanols or ether an ammonia or an ammonia type compound, i.e. a primary or secondary amine is used as the co reactant. If one uses a primary or secondary amine as the reactant, secondary and tertiary amines are formed as product. Suitable primary and secondary amines can be represented by the formulas RNH2 and R 2NH where each R is a hydrocarbon group having from 1 6 carbon atoms in the structure. Examples of amines include methylamine, dimethylamine, and ethylamines. In the process, an ammonia type compound is reacted with the alkanol or ether at temperatures broadly from about 150 500 C, but preferably at temperatures of about 350 450 C. Lower temperatures result in lower conversion and higher temperatures usually result in lower selectivity. Pressures suited for practicing the invention are from about 100 6,000 psig with preferred pressures of from about 100 to 2,000 psig. Another important variable in the gas phase amination of the alkanol is the mole ratio of ammonia to alkanol in the feed. Generally, the mole ratio can be from about 0.2 20 moles ammonia per mole of alkanol with preferred ranges of from about 1 10 to 1. Mole ratios higher than about 10 1 of course require greater energy expenditure to handle the larger quantities of gas that pass through the reactor and there seems to be no significant advantage in terms of increased selectivity or conversion at these higher ratios of ammonia to alkanol. The gas hourly space velocity GH5V which has units of volume of gas per volume of catalyst in unit time i.e. cc gas at STP cc catalyst hours . The gas hour space velocity can be from about 500 15,000 with a preferred range being from about 1.000 12,000. As the space velocity is increased toward the upper end of the range, conversion generally falls dramatically, particularly above a space velocity of about 12,000. The catalyst utilized in the amination process of this invention is commonly referred to as a partially dealuminated zeolite. Enhanced conversions are normally noted with those zeolitic materials which are in the acid form, e.g.. the hydrogen ion or rare earth metal ion exchanged zeolites. Representative examples of zeolites suited for use in the acid form include Y, X. clinoptilolite. offretite. erionite. mordenite, montmorillonite and the ZSM family. The dealumination of the zeolitic materials has been found to enhance the rate of conversion of the alkanol or ether to amine without interfering with the selectivity of the catalyst system. Partial dealumination also improves catalyst life presumably because stability of the zeolite is improved by increasing the silica to alumina ratio. It also improves conversion presumably by reducing the resistance reactant diffusion within the zeolite pores. By dealumination it is meant that the zeolite is treated with a dealuminating agent such as a chelating agent or acid for the purpose of removing aluminum atoms from the zeolite structure. Typically the percent aluminum removed is sufficient to effect removal of 10 90 from the total alumina A1203 by weight present in the zeolite material. For example, mordenite normally has anSi to Al molar ratio of about 5 1. The Si to Al molar ratio for partially dealuminated mordenite should be from 6 to 100 1 with preferred molar ratios of 6 to 20 1. The silicon to aluminum molar ratio of a Y zeolite is about 2.2 1. The Si to Al ratio for a partially dealuminatedY zeolite should be from 2.5 to 50 1 wlth a preferred Si to Al molar ratio of 2.5 to 15 1. There are several techniques available for removing aluminum atoms from the structure and some involve the treatment of the zeolite material with a chelating agent such as acetyl acetonate, ethylenediamine tetracetic acid, or by treatment with a mineral acid e.g. hydrochloric acid or by activation using silicon tetrachioride. Aluminum atom removal is effective at temperatures from about 25 100 C within a time frame of 1 to 24 hours followed by calcination at temperatures of about 4000C. Examples of various techniques for removlng aluminum atoms from zeolite materials to produce catalytic compositions are noted in U.S. 3.506,400 U.S. 3,937,791 and U.S. 3.761.396 these techniques are incorporated by reference. The following examples are provided to illustrate various embodiments to the invention. Example 1 Preparation of Dealuminated H Mordenlte A 60 80 gram sample of 1 16 extrudate of H mordenite sold by theNorton Company under designation Z 900H was dealuminated by adding this catalyst to 2 liters of distilled water containing from 5 50 milliliters of 12 normal aqueous hydrochloric acid and 1 molar ammonium chloride.The solution was ref fluxed for 2 hours. washed with hot water until no chloride ions were detected and then dried at 1500C. The dealumination procedure was then repeated to achieve the desired degree of dealumination. The Si to Al molar ratio was about 6 1 and higher. TheX ray analysis of the dealuminated zeolite showed no loss of crystallinity. The materials tested had a Si to Al molar ratios of 6 and 8 to 1. Example2 A series of runs was sade to produce ethylamines. Ammonia and ethanol in such amounts so as to provide an ammonia ethanol molar ratio of about 2 1 were passed over about 5.34 grams of catalyst in a Berty recycle reactor a fixed bed reactor with a large greater than 20 internal recycle ratio . Under these conditions the Berty reactor is gradient less and behaves like a continually stirred torque reactor CSTR . Rates of reaction can be calculated directly as moles converted per gram of catalyst per second of residence tine. The reaction was performed at a total pressure of 18 atmospheres at a gas hourly space velocity of 9300 and at a variety of temperatures from 550 to 750OF 288 to 3990C . The reactor feeds and effluent were analyzed by an on line calibrated gas chromatograph. The streams were maintained gaseous from the reactor to the chromatograph sampling valve. The catalysts tested were amorphous silica alumina, H mordenite, REY zeolite, H Y zeolite, H erionite and partially dealuminated H mordenite.The REY zeolite was Union Carbide s SK 500 rare earth exchanged zeolite catalyst. The remaining hydrogen exchanged aluminosilicate catalyst, namely H Y zeolite, H erionite and H mordenite were prepared according to conventional procedures for hydrogen exchange from Na Y zeolite, erionite ore and sodium mordenite, respectively. The results are provided in Tables 1 5. TABLE 1 Ethanol Conversion Rates as a Function of Temperature g mole C2H50HUg of catalyst sec Temperature 550 F 650 F 750 F Catalyst 288 C 343 C 400 C 1. Silica alumina LA 30 0.36x10 7 1.4x10 6 4.6x10 6 2. Rey Zeolite 2.3x10 7 3.4x10 6 3.7x10 6 3. H Y Zeolite 4.0x10 7 3.4x10 6 3.8x10 6 4. H Erionite nil 1.1x10 6 2.6x10 6 5. H MOrdenite 0.4x10 7 0.8x10 6 1.9x10 6 6. Partially Dealuminated 2.0x10 7 2.0x10 6 4.2x10 6 H Mordenite Ex 1. 7.Partially Dealuminated 2.0x10 7 2.8x10 6 5.3x10 6 H Hordenite Ex 2. 1 8 Table 1 shows that dealuminization of H mordenite enhanced the amination rate of ethanol significantly as compared to H mordenite itself. Compare runs 5 7. TABLE 2 Comparison of Ethanol Conversion Rates Zeolite Aluminosilicate Catalyst silica alumina Temperature 550 F 650 F 750 F Catalyst 2880C 3430C 4000C 8. Silica alumina 1 1 1 9. REY 6.5 2.5 0.8 10. H Y 11.0 2.5 0.8 11. H Erionite nil 0.8 0.6 12. Fi Mordenite 1 0.6 0.5 13. Partially Dealuminated 5.6 1.4 0.9 Z 900H Ex. 1 14. Partially Dealuminated 5.6 2.0 1.2 Z 900H Ex. 2 Runs 8 14 compare the rate of ethanol amination of various zeolites to the rate of amination of ethanol obtained with silica alumina.At lower temperatures 550 and 650OF zeolites were more effective than silica alumina. Rare earth Y and H Y zeolites were the most effective and showed better rates of ethanol conversion than H mordenite. But. at the higher temperature 750 C where reaction is diffusion limited dealuminated H mordenite showed superior activity over zeolites and silica alumina compare Example 14 with 8 12 . Dealuminated H mordenite. on the other hand, showed significant improvement over the commercially available H mordenite Z 900H Table 3 . Table 3 Rate of Ethanol Conversion Dealuminated H Mordeni te H Mordenite Temperature 550 F 650 F 750 F Catalyst 288eC 343 C 4000C 15. H Hordenite Z 900H 1 1 1 16. Partially dealuminated 5.6 2.3 1.8 Z 900H Ex. 1 17. Partially dealuminated 5.6 3.3 2.3 Z 900H Ex. 2 The partially dealuminated H mordenite showed significantly higher rates of ethanol conversion over the commercial material. At 550 F dealuminated H mordenite gave 5 6 times higher rates. The improvement in the rate of ethanol conversion resulted by partial dealumination of the commercial H mordenite as noted in Table 3 was effected without substantial ethylene make. Table 4 provides these results. TABLE 4 Ethylene Yield X Ethylene Yield yene Yield Rate of Ethanol Conversion x 100 Temperature 550 F 650 F 750 F Catalyst 288 C 343 C 400 C 18. Silica alumina O 0 4.7 19. REY Zeolite 0 10 38 20. H Y Zeolite 0 10 36 21. H Erionite 0 10 42 22. H Mordenite O 4 21 23. Partially Dealum. 0 4 21 H Hordenite Ex. 1 24. Ex. 2 0 2.9 20 As noted in Table 4 dealuminated H mordenite showed much lower ethylene make than any of the zeolite tested. This is very significant since Tables 2 and 3 show the rate of ethanol conversion over dealuminated H mordenite is much better e.g., 40 or better than the H Y or rare earth Y zeolite, and yet this is obtained with half the ethylene yield compare Runs 18 24 . The other significant aspect is the pore shape selectivity of the dealuminated H mordenite. When a silica alumina, rare earth Y and H Y zeolite catalyst was used the product showed triethylamine yield. On the other hand dealuminated H mordenite showed high rates of ethanol conversion with selectivity mainly to mono and diethylamine and substantially eliminated the formation of triethylamine. It seems that the pores were large enough to make the dlethylamine and allow the diethylamine to diffuse out of the pores but small enough to eliminate the formation of the triethylamlne. Examples 6 and 7 of Table 5 shows traces of triethylamine formed at high temperature. TABLE 5 Comparison of Amine Split Over Zeolite Catalysts 550 F 650 F 750 F EA DEA TEA MEA DEA TEA MEA DEA TEA 1. Silica Alumina 62.5 32.2 5.3 52.8 38.4 8.8 58.4 35.0 6.5 2. REY Zeolite 100 0 0 70.5 27.0 2.50 78.6 20.2 1.6 3. H Y Zeolite 87.3 12.7 0 69.8 27.9 2.5 80.8 17.7 1.5 4. H Erionite t t t 82.4 17.6 0 83.3 16.7 0 5. H Hordenite 100 0 0 89.2 10.8 0 86.5 13.5 0 6. Dealuminated 82.3 17.7 0 83.5 16.5 0 84.4 15.6 0 H Mord. Ex. 1 7. Dealuminated 87.5 12.5 0 81.8 17.9 t 81.5 18.1 .34 H nord. Ex. 2 t trace amounts DEA Diethylamine MEAL Monoethylamine TEA Triethylamine Table 5 shows the significance of using dealuminated H mordenite as compared to other catalysts in terms of amino split.DealuminatedH mordenite has similar activity as the H Y or rare earth Y REY zeolite but it shows a slightly different amines split. Dealuminated H mordenite showed substantially complete elimination of the triethylamine at 6500F reaction temperature. The only catalyst that showed the preferential formation of mono and di over trisubstituted amine was H erionite. But, contrary to dealuminated H mordenite, H erionite showed very low rates of ethanol amination. The elimination of the triethylamine is related to the pore size of the zeolite. H mordenite apparently has the perfect pore size that allows the formation and movement of the mono and disubstituted amines, but not the triamine. The Y zeolite has large pores to allow the formation of the triethylamine. By dealuminating the H mordenite, it becomes clear that the pore shape selectivity inherent in the H mordenite has not been modified.