# Melt spinning process.

## Abstract
A process for melt spinning an aromatic polyester showing anisotropy in the molten state in the presence of at least one stabilizer selected from phosphorus compounds and phenol compounds, by which occurrence of foaming due to the reactions such as decomposition, polymerization and cross linking during the spinning can be prevented.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMD IS 1. A process for producing aromatic polyester fibers which comprises mixing 100 parts by weight of an aromatic polyester showing optical anisotropy in the molten state with 0.03 to 0.5 part by weight of at least one compound selected from the group consisting of phosphorus compounds of the formulae P OR1 OR2 OR3 1 andEMI21.1 wherein R1, R2, R3, R4, R5, R71 R8, Rg and R11 are independently a monovalent aliphatic hydrocarbon group having 6 or more carbon atoms, a monovalent alicyclic hydrocarbon group having 6 or more carbon atoms, or a monovalent aromatic hydrocarbon group having 6 or more carbon atoms R6 is a divalent aliphatic hydrocarbon group having 1 or more carbon atoms, a divalent alicyclic hydrocarbon group having 6 or more carbon atoms, or a divalent aromatic hydrocarbon group having 6 or more carbon atoms and R10 is a tetravalent aliphatic hydrocarbon group having 5 or more carbon atoms, a tetravalent alicyclic hydrocarbon group having 6 or more carbon atoms, or a tetravalent aromatic hydrocarbon group having 6 or more carbon atoms, and phenolic compounds of the formulae EMI22.1 wherein n in an integer of 1 to 4 p is zero or an integer of 1 R12 and R13 are independently hydrogen, a hydroxyl group, a monovalent hydrocarbon group having 1 or more carbon atoms, an alkoxy group having 1 or more carbon atoms, a monovalent alicyclic hydrocarbon group having 6 or more carbon atoms, a monovalent aromatic hydrocarbon group having 6 or more carbon atoms1 a cycloalkoxy group gaving 6 or more carbon atoms, or an aryloxy group having 6 or more carbon atoms R14 is an aliphatic hydrocarbon group having a valence of n and 1 or more carbon atoms, an alicyclic hydrocarbon group having a valence of n and 6 or more carbon atoms, an aromatic hydrocarbon group having a valence of n and 6 or more carbon atoms, 0 , CO , S , or NR12 provided that when R14 is O , CO , S or NR12 , n is 2 R15 is a divalent aliphatic hydrocarbon group, having 1 or more carbon atoms, a divalent alicyclic hydrocarbon group having 6 or more carbon atoms, or a divalent aromatic hydrocarbon group having 6 or more carbon atoms and X is O , CO , S , NR12 , CO O , or O CO , and melt spinning the resulting mixture. 2. A process according to Claim 1, wherein the melt spinning is conducted at 2800 to 4200C. 3. A process according to Claim 1, wherein the aromatic polyester is a copolyester comprising 40 to 70 mole of p hydroxybenzoic acid residue, 15 to 30 mole of an aromatic dicarboxylic acid residue and 15 to 30 mole of an aromatic diol residue, a copolyester prepared by reacting terephthalic acid and or isophthalic acid with at least one of chlorohydroquinone, phenylhydroquinone and hydroquinone, or a copolyester comprising 20 to 80 mole of p hydroxybenzoic acid residue and 20 to 80 mole of 2 hydroxynaphthalene 6carboxylic acid residue. 4. A process according to Claim 1, wherein the phosphorus compound is cyclic neopentanetetrayl bis octadecylphosphite . 5. A process according to Claim 1, wherein the phosphorus compound is 4,4 diphenylene bist2,4 di tert butylphenyl phosphitei. 6. A process according to Claim 1, whrein the phosphorus compound is tris p nonylphenyl phosphite. 7. A process according to Claim 1, wherein the phenolic compound is p phenylphenol. 8. A process according to Claim 1, wherein the phenolic compound is 2 acryloxy 3,3 di tert butyl 2 hydroxy 5, 5 dimethyldiphenylmethane. 9. A process according to Claim 1, wherein the phenolic compound is 1,3,5 trimethyl 2,4,6 tris 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxybenzyl benzene.

## Description
MELT SPINNING PROCESSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to a melt spinning process stably practicable for a long period of time. More specifically, the invention relates to a process for melt spinning of aromatic polyesters to produce aromatic polyester fibers having high strength and high modulus of elasticity, which process is stably practicable for a long period of time without occurrence of foaming. Recently, aromatic polyesters showing anisotropy in the molten state have been found to give polyester fibers having high strength and high modulus of elasticity.And the melt spinning process has many advantages such that no solvent is used and existing apparatus can be employed. However, the aromatic polyesters capable of giving polyester fibers having high strength and high modulus of elasticity requires a high processing spinning temperature for the spinning, and therefore at the spinning, occurrence of foaming due to the reactions such as decomposition, polymerization, crosslinking and the like cannot be avoided. This makes difficult to continue the spinning stably for a long period of time. So far, different kinds of aromatic polyesters showing anisotropy in the molten state have been proposed, for example, in Published Examined Japanese PatentApplication No. 482 1980 and the like. However, the embodiments disclosed therein are only on a laboratory scale and therefore not useful from industrial point of view. Thus, it has been desired to develop a melt spinning process industrially stably practicable for a long period of time.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION An object of the present invention is to provide a process for melt spinning an aromatic polyester showing anisotropy in the molten state, which is practicable stably for a long period of time. Another object of the present invention is to provide a melt spinning process for preventing occurrence of foaming due to reactions such as decomposition, polymerization, cross linking and the like during the spinning of such aromatic polyester. This invention provides a process for producing aromatic polyester fibers which comprises mixing 100 parts by weight of an aromatic polyester showing optical anisotropy in the molten state with 0.03 to 0.5 part by weight of at least one compound selected from the group consisting of those phorus compounds of the formulae P 0R1 OR2 OR3 1 EMI3.1 andEMI3.2 wherein R1, R2 R3, R4, R5, R7, R8, Rg and RII are independently a monovalent aliphatic hydrocarbon group having 6 or more carbon atoms, a monovalent alicyclic hydrocarbon group having 6 or more carbon stoms, or a monovalent aromatic hydrocarbon group having 6 or more carbon atoms R6 is a diva lent aliphatic hydrocarbon group having 1 or more carbon atoms, a divalent alicyclic hydrocarbon group having 6 or more carbon atoms, or a diva lent aromatic hydrocarbon group having 6 or more carbon atoms and R10 is a tetravalent aliphatic hydrocarbon group having 5 or more carbon atoms, a tetravalent alicyclic hydrocarbon group having 6 or more carbon atoms, or a tetravalent aromatic hydrocarbon group having 6 or more carbon atoms, and phenolic compounds of the formulae EMI3.3 EMI4.1 wherein n is an integer of 1 to 4 p is zero or an integer of 1 R12 and R13 are independently hydrogen, a hydroxyl group, a monovalent hydrocarbon group having 1 or more carbon atoms, an alkoxy group having 1 or more carbon atoms, a monovalent alicyclic hydrocarbon group having 6 or more carbon atoms, a monovalent aromatic hydrocarbon group having 6 or more carbon atoms, a cycloalkoxy group having 6 or more carbon atoms, or an aryloxy group having 6 or more carbon atoms R14 is an aliphatic hydrocarbon group having a valence of n and 1 or more carbon atoms, an alicyclic hydrocarbon group having a valence of n and 6 or more carbon atoms, an aromatic hydrocarbon group having a valence of n and 6 or more carbon atoms, 0 , CO , S , or NR12 provided that when R14 is O , CO , S or NR12 , n is 2 R15 is a divalent aliphatic hydrocarbon group having 1 or more carbon atoms, a divalent alicyclic hydrocarbon group having 6 or more carbon atoms, or a divalent aromatic hydrocarbon group having 6 or more carbon atoms and X is O , CO , S , NR12 , CO a , or O CO , and melt spinning the resulting mixture.DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS In the process of the present invention, an aromatic polyester showing anisotropy in the molten state is used. The aromatic polyester to be used is the one capable of transmitting light at a temperature, at which the aromatic polyester becomes flowable, when the powdery polyester sample is put and heated on a heating sample stage placed between two polarizing plates which are at right angles 900 from each other. Examples of the aromatic polyester are those prepared from aromatic dicarboxylic acids, aromatic diols and or aromatic hydroxycarboxylic acids, and their derivatives, as disclosed in Published Examined Japanese Patent Application Nos. 18016 1981, 20008 1980 and the like. If desired, aromatic polyesters may be copolymers prepared from the aforesaid compounds with alicyclic dicarboxylic acids, alicyclic diols, aliphatic diols and their derivatives. Examples of the aromatic dicarboxylic acids are terephthalic acid, isophthalic acid, 4,4 dicarboxydiphenyl, 2,6 dicarboxynaphthalene, 1,2bis 4 carboxyphenoxy ethane and their derivatives substituted on the nucleus with alkyl, aryl, alkoxy or halogen. Examples of the aromatic diols are hydroquinone, resorcinol, 4,4 dihydroxydiphenyl, 4,41 dihydroxy benzophenone, 4,4 1 dihydroxydiphenylmethane, 4,4 dihydroxydiphenylethane, 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane, 4,4 dihydroxydiphenylether, 4,4 dihydroxydiphenylsulfone, 4,4 dihydroxydiphenylsulfide, 2,6 dihydroxynaphthalene, 1,5 dihydroxynaphthalene and their derivatives substituted on the nucleus with alkyl, aryl, alkoxy or halogen. Examples of the aromatic hydroxycarboxylic acids are p hydroxybenzoic acid, m hydroxybenzoic acid, 2 hydroxynaphthalene 6 carboxylic acid, l hydroxynaphthalene 5 carboxylic acid and their derivatives substituted on the nucleus with alkyl, aryl, alkoxy or halogen. Examples of the alicyclic dicarboxylic acids are trans 1,4 dicarboxycyclohexane, cis 1,4 dicarboxycyclohexane and their derivatives substituted on the nucleus with alkyl, aryl or halogen. Examples of the alicyclic and aliphatic diols are trans 1,4 dihydroxycyclohexane, cis 1,4 dihydroxycyclohexane, ethylene glycol, 1,4 butanediol, xylylenediol and the like. Of these aromatic polyesters prepared using a combination of the acid compounds and the hydroxyl compounds as described above, preferred are i a copolyester comprising p hydroxybenzoiTh acid residue 40 to 70 mole t , the aromatic dicarboxylic acid residue 15 to 30 mole and the aromatic diol residue 15 to 30 mole , ii a copolyester prepared by the reaction of terephthalic acid and or isophthalic acid with chlorohydroquinone, phenylhydroquinone and or hydroquinone, iii a copolyester comprising p hydroxybenzoic acid residue 20 to 80 mole and 2hydroxynaphthalene 6 carboxylic acid residue 20 to 80 mole , and so on. In the preparation of the aromatic polyester usable for the process of the present invention using the aforesaid starting materials, said materials as such or after esterification with an aliphatic or aromatic monocarboxylic acid or its derivative, or an aliphatic alcohol, a phenol or its derivative, can be subjected to polycondensation reaction according to, for example, a bulk polymerization, solution polymerization or suspension polymerization method known in this art. The reaction can be carried out at a temperature ranging from 1500 to 3600C under atmospheric pressure or a reduced pressure ranging from 10 to 0.1 torr, if desired, in the presence of a polymerization catalyst such as Sb , Ti or Ge containing compounds, a stabilizer such as phosphorus compounds and or a filler such as TiO2, CaCO3, Talc and the like.The resulting polyester as such or after pulverization is heat treated in an inert gas atmosphere or under a reduced pressure prior to the spinning. The polyester may be formed into a granule through an extruder prior to the heat treatment. The aromatic polyester usable in the present invention may be defined in terms of the molecular weight. However, there are problems such that depending on the composition and structure of the polymer, a solvent capable of dissolving the polymer uniformly can hardly be found, and accuracy in the measurement of molecular weight is questionable. Accordingly, the molecular weight cannot be used for the definition of the aromatic polyester usable in the present invention.For this reason, a flowing temperature is used therefor, which is a physical value corresponding to the molecular weight. In the present invention, the flowing temperature is defined to be a temperature, at which the aromatic polyester flows through a nozzle of 1 mm in diameter and 10 mm in length, and reaches an apparent viscos ity of 48,000 poise, when heated at a 2 rate of 4 C min. under a pressure of 100 kg cm2 using Flow tester CFT 500, manufactured by Shimadzu Seisakusho in Japan. In the present invention, it has been found that an aromatic polyester having a flowing temperature ranging from 2809 to 3800C is useful for the spinning to produce desired polyester fibers having high strength and high modulus of elasticity. In case of using an aromatic polyester having a flowing temperature lower than that defined above, reactions readily occur at the molten state, and elongation percentage of the fiber becomes insufficient. Whereas, in case of using an aromatic polyester having a flowing temperature higher than that defined above, the decomposition and cross linking reactions readily occur, and a load on the apparatus becomes large, because such polyester requires a higher processing spinning temperature. In carrying out the process of the present invention, as the melt spinning apparatus, a conventional plunger type or screw type extruder may be employed. In carrying out the process continuously, the latter is preferred. As other apparatus such as gear pump and the like, existing ones may be employed. A temperature suitable for the melt spinning in accordance with the present invention ranges from 2800 to 4200C, preferably from 3000 to 4000C for the reason described above. Even if the spinning is carried out within the temperature range as defined above using the aromatic polyester having the flowing temperature as defined above, a stable operation for a long period of time cannot be attained, because of a spinning temperature being as high as 2800C or higher. In the present invention, such problems can be solved by using a specific stabilizer. Generally speaking, stabilizers must be those usable for the spinning without prevention of the stable spinning conditions and giving no bad effects against the fibers to be produced.However, there have never been found stabilizers meeting with such requirements and suitable for the melt spinning of the aromatic polyester showing anisotropy in the molten state. In carrying out the melt spinning of the aromatic polyester showing anisotropy in the molten state in accordance with the present invention, the stabilizer to be mixed with such aromatic polyester is at least one member selected from the group consisting of phosphorus compounds having the formula 1 , 2 or 3 , and phenol compounds having the formula 4 , 5 or 6 . P ORl OR2 OR3 1 EMI10.1 EMI11.1 The upper limit of the number of carbon atoms in R1 R15 is not particulary limited, but usually 30 or less. Examples of the compound of the formula 1 are triphenylphosphite Sumilizer TPP R, produced bySumitomo Chemical Co. , diphenylisodecylphosphite DPDP, produced by Sanko Chemical Co. , tris nonylphenyl phosphite Sumilizer TNP, produced bySumitomo Chemical Co. and the like. Examples of the compound of the formula 2 are 4,4 butylidene bist3 methyl 6 tert butylphenyl di tridecylphosphite Mark 260, produced by Adeka ArgusCo. , 4,4 diphenylene bis bis 2,4 di tert butylphenyl phosphite Sandostab PEP Q, produced by Sandoz Co. and the like. Examples of the compound of the formula 3 are cyclic neopentanetetra yl bis octadecylphosphite and the like. Examples of the compound of the formula 4 are p nonylphenol, p phenylphenol, o phenylphenol and the like. Examples of the compounds of the formulae 5 and 6 are 2 acryloxy 3, 3 di tert butyl 2 hydroxy 5,5 dimethyl diphenylmethane Sumilizer GM, produced by Sumitomo Chemical Co. , tetraquis 4 hydroxy 3,5 di tert butylphenylethyl carboxymethyl methane Sumilizer BP 101, produced by Sumitomo Chemical Co. , 4,4 butylidene bis 3 methyl 6 tert butylphenol Sumilizer BBM, produced by Sumitomo Chemical Co. , 2,6 di tert butyl p cresol Sumilizer BHT, produced bySumitomo Chemical Co. , 4,4 thio bis 3 methyl 6 tertbutylphenol Sumilizer WX, produced by Sumitomo ChemicalCo. , 1,3, 5 trimethyl 2, 4, 6 tris 3, 5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxybenzyl benzene Ionox 330, produced by ShellChemical Corp. , bis 3,3 bis 4 hydroxy 3 tert butylphenyl butyric acid glycol ester TMOZ, produced by Hoechst AG , and the like. Of these, preferred are 2 acryloxy 3,3 di tert butyl 2 hydroxy 5, 5 dimethyldiphenylmethane and p phenylphenol. At least one member selected from the stabilizing compounds described above is mixed with the aromatic polyester, thereby preventing the occurrence of foaming, facilitating a stable operation of the spinning, and stabilizing the physical properties of the fibers obtained. The stabilizing compound may be added during the polymerization carried out for the production of aromatic polyester, or to the produced aromatic polyester. The mixing can be carried out by a dry blend method wherein the compound is mixed with the polyester in the form of powder, granule or pellet at an ambient or elevated temperature, a method wherein the compound in the form of solution is mixed therewith, or a melt mixing method using an extruder or a kneader.Alternatively, the compound may be mixed directly at the time of spinning. The stabilizing compound can be used in an amount of 0.03 to 0.5 part by weight, preferably 0.05 to 0.4 part by weight, per 100 parts by weight of the aromatic polyester hereinafter, the amount being expressed in terms of PHR parts per hundred . Too small amounts, namely less than 0.03 PHR, exhibit no effect, whereas too large, namely more than 0.5 PHR, amounts rather bring about foaming and decomposition of the aromatic polyester to cause the break of single filament and soil of the spinnerette surface. When the stabilizing compound is used in an appropriate amount described above, the deterioration and decomposition of the aromatic polyester can be prevented during the melting, and the spinning can be practiced stably, and moreover incorporation of the foam into the fibers can be effectively prevented to stabilize the physical properties of fibers. The fibers produced by the spinning in accordance with the present invention can be wound up or drawn as they are or after addition of an oiling agent. A rate of windup or drawdown ranges from 10 to 10,000 m min, preferably 100 to 2,000 m min from the viewpoint of the productivity and spinnability. The fineness and sectional shape of the fiber may very depending on the use. The fineness of 1 to 10 deniers is preferred from viewpoint of the strength and modulus of elasticity. The thus obtained fiber can be used as it is, or subjected to heat treatment, drawing or a combination thereof, thereby enhancing the strength and modulus of elasticity much more. The present invention is illustrated in more detail with reference to the following Examples,Reference Examples and Comparative Examples. In these Examples, the tensile test of the fiber was conducted using an all purpose tester No.1130, manufactured by Instron Co. under a sample distance of 20 mm and a tensile speed of 0.5 mm min. The optical anisotropy was visually judged on the sample placed on a heating stage and heated at a rate of 250C min under polarized light.Reference Example 1 p Acetoxybenzoic acid 7.20 kg, 40 moles , terephthalic acid 2.49 kg, 15 moles , isophthalic acid 0.83 kg, 5 moles and 4,4 diacetoxydiphenyl 5.45 kg, 20.2 moles were placed in a polymerization vessel equipped with a comb like stirrer. The mixture was heated under a nitrogen gas atmosphere, while being stirred. Polymerization was continued under vigorous stirring at 3300C for 3 hours, during which acetic acid produced was removed out of the reaction system.Thereafter, the reaction mixture was gradually cooled and at 2000C taken out of the system to obtain a desired polymer 10.88 kg . The yield was 97.8 of the theoretical value. The polymer obtained was pulverized using a hammer mill manufactured by Hosokawa Micron Co. to form particles of 2.5 mm or below in the particle size. The polymer in the form of particle was treated in a rotary kiln under a nitrogen gas atmosphere at 2800C for 5 hours, whereby a polymer having the flowing temperature of 3260C was obtained. The optical anisotropy was observed at a temperature of 3500C or higher.Reference Example 2 Using the same reaction vessel as in ReferenceExample 1, a copolyester consisting of 2,5 diacetoxybiphenyl and terephthalic acid was synthesized. The flowing temperature thereof was found to be 318 C, and the optical anisotropy was observed at 3400C or higher.Example 1 Using the polyester obtained in ReferenceExample 1, the melt spinning was conducted by means of a screw type extruder with a spinnerette having a hole diameter of 0.12 mm, a hole length of 0.1 mm and a hole number of 150. Cyclic neopentanetetraylbis octadecylphosphite having a melting point of 640C Mark PEP 8, manufactured by Adeka Argus Co. ,EMI15.1 in an amount of 0.2 PHR was mixed with the polyester in a mixer kept at 950C mixing time 30 minutes . The mixture was charged through a hopper, and the spinning was conducted at 3650C.During the spinning, a stable operation was continued and filaments were uniformly taken out through the 150 holes of spinnerette. Thus, a transparent fiber of pale yellow color was obtained. The number of foams present in the fiber was examined on the 150 fibers of 50 mm in length and counted to be 4.3 per meter of the fiber. The fiber was treated under a nitrogen gas atmosphere at 3200C for 3 hours, and thereafter the physical values thereof were found to be 3.47 deniers, 28.6 g d in strength, 10.5 in distribution of the strength, 2.9 in elongation and 995 g d in modulus of elasticity.Comparative Example 1 Example 1 was repeated, provided that no phosphite was used. The number of foams present in the fiber obtained was counted to be 16.8 per meter of the fiber, and the physical values of the fiber after the heat treatment were found to be 3.63 deniers, 22.6 d g in strength and 16.6 in its distribution.Comparative Example 2 Example 1 was repeated, provided that the phosphite was used in an amount of 3 PHR. During the spinning, breaks of filaments were observed numerously, Even when the spinning temperature was lowered to 3600C, the spinnerette surface was also soiled. When the spinning temperature was lowered to 3500C, the fiber obtained was made opaque and brittle.Comparative Example 3 In a manner similar to that of Example 1, each spinning was conducted using phenothiazine,EMI17.1 and mercaptobenzimidazoleEMI17.2 respectively, in an amount of 0.2 PHR, in place of the phosphite used in Example 1. Both were worse in the spinning conditions than those in Comparative Example 1.Example 2 Using a mixture of the polyester obtained inReference Example 1 and 2 acryloxy 3,3 di tert butyl 2 hydroxy 5, 5 dimethyldiphenylmethane Sumilizer GM, produced by Sumitomo Chemical Co. ,EMI17.3 in an amount of 0.15 PHR, the spinning was conducted in a manner similar to that of Example 1. The spinning was continued stably without break of single filament to produce a transparent fiber of pale yellow color. The foam in the fiber was counted to be 5.5 per meter of the fiber. The physical values of the fiber treated under a nitrogen gas atmosphere at 3200C for 3 hours were found to be 3.56 denier, 27.5 g d in strength and 11.0 in distribution of the strength.Example 3 Example 1 was repeated, provided that the polyester obtained in Reference Example 2, and the same phosphite as used in Example 2 in an amount of 0.2 PlIR were used, and the spinning was conducted at 360 C. The spinning was continued favorably, and the foam in the fiber obtained was counted to be 5.6 per meter of the fiber. The physical values of the fiber treated under a nitrogen gas atmosphere at 3200C for 3 hours were found to be 4.48 deniers, 23.6 g d in strength and 11.7 in distribution of the strength.Comparative Example 4 Example 3 was repeated, provided that no phosphite was used. The foam in the fiber obtained was as many as 21 per meter of the fiber, and the physical values of the fiber treated under a nitrogen gas atmosphere at 3200C for 3 hours were found to be 4,6 deniers, 17.8 g d in strength and 18.2 in distribution of the strength. Example 4 Using the polyester obtained in ReferenceExample 1, Example 1 was repeated provided that pphenylphenol,EMI19.1 was used in an amount of 0.4 PHR. The spinning was continued favorably, and the foam in the fiber obtained was counted to be 5.4 per meter of the fiber.Example 5 Using the polyester obtained in ReferenceExample 1, Example 1 was repeated provided that tris p nonylphenyl phosphite Sumilizer TNP, produced by Sumitomo Chemical Co. ,EMI19.2 was used in an amount of 0.28 PHR. The spinning was continued favorably, and the foam in the fiber obtained was counted to be 6.2 per meter of the fiber. Example 6 Using the polyester obtained in ReferenceExample 1, Example 1 was repeated, provided that 4,4 diphenylene bis Cbis 1 2, 4 di tert butylphenyl phosphite Sandostab PEP Q, produced by Sandoz Co. ,EMI19.3 was used in an amount of 0.3 PHR, whereby the spinning was able to be continued faborably.Example 7 Using the polyester obtained in ReferenceExample 1, Example 1 was repeated, provided that 1,3,5 trimethyl 2, 4, 6 tris 3, 5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxy benzyl benzene lonox 330, produced by Shell Chemical Co. ,EMI20.1 was used in an amount of 0.24 PHR, whereby the spinning was able to be continued favorably.