# Anticoccidial isoxazoles and compositions containing them.

## Abstract
Anticoccidial composition comprising an anticoccidially effective amount of a compound of the general formula I

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Anticoccidial composition comprising an anticoccidially effective amount of a compound of the general formula IEMI26.1 in which A represents hydrogen, C1, Br, I, CN or NO2, X represents a hydrogen atan or an optionally substituted alkyl, aralkyl, aryl, alkaryl, or a heteocyclic group andY represents a nitrogen containing heterocyclic group, or a group of general formula IIEMI26.2 in which m is 1 or O, Z is oxygen or sulphur, Q is hydrogen orEMI26.3 in which R is an alkyl group having 1 4 carbon athos or a halogen atom, or O is CH2 n, n being 0 5 or Q is CHHal orCH2Hal wherein Hal is halogen, Rê is hydrogen or an optionally substituted alkyl or cycloalayl group, k is O or 1, p is 0 5, M is a hetercçyclic group containing 1 or sore nitrogen atoms or is, halogen, hydrn, NHR1, SRÚ,ORÚ, NRÚ, R1, N or N , R1 being an optionally substituted phenyl group, hydrogen or an alkyl group having 1 4 carbon atoms optionally substituted by OH, COOH or COOalkyl, the alkyl group having 1 4 carbon atans, q being 1 or 0, and t is 1 4 or when t 1 and q 0, Y represents a group of general formula IIIEMI27.1 in which R1 and R2, which can be the same or different, each represent a hydrogen atan or an optionally substituted C2 C6 alkyl, cycloalkyl, alkenyl, aryl, alkaryl, aralkyl, acyl, carboxy, alkoxycarbonyl, alkylcarbonyl, dialkoxycarbonyl or sulphonyl goup, or in which R1 and R2 together form a ring structre, which including the N atan is preferably a 5 or 6 membered ring structure or a salt thereof together with a veterinarily acceptable carrier. 2. Anticoccidial composition as claimed in claim 1 in which t 1, q 1, M is CHI, and Y is a group of general formula II in which R2is an alkyl group having 1 4 carbon atans, Z is oxygen and Q is CH2 n wherein n 0 3, k 0, m 1, and p 0. 3. Anticoccidial composition as claimed in any one of the claims 1 2 in which, when X represents an aralkyl, aryl, alkaryl or a substituted heterocyclic group, of which at least one of the substituents is an electron withdrawing group. 4. Anticoccidial composition as claimed in any me of the claims 1 3 in which X represents a phenyl group substituted by at least chlorine or bromine. 5. Anticoccidial composition as claimed in any one of the claims 1 4 which carprises a compound of general formula I in which X is p chlorophenyl, t 1, q 0 and Y isEMI27.2 6. Poultry feed in which a compound of forttula I or an anticoccidial catoosition as claimed in any one of the claims 1 5 has been incorporated. 7. Method for preparing a poultry feed as claimed in claim 6 which comprises mixing with or incorporation in, bird edible material a compound of formula I or an anticoccidial position as claimed in any one of the claims 1 5. 8. Method as claimed in claim 7 in which the anticoccidial ooooosition is of the nature of a ccnventional kind of poultry premix. 9. Method for treating poultry infected by coccidia which comprises administering thereto, preferably in admixture with its feed a compound of formula I or an anticoccidial composition as claimed in any one of the claims 1 5. 10. Method for rearing birds for ultimate man consumption which comprises administering thereto a compound of formula I, or an anticoccidial composition as claimed in any one of the claims 1 5, or a poultry feed as claimed in claim 6. 11. Process for preparing compounds of formula I in which t 1, sFO and X is a halo substituted phenyl radical and Y is a mono or dialkylaminoradical which comprises reacting a halo substituted acetophenone with an alkyl isothiocyanate and methyliodide in the presence of sodiumhydride to form an intermediate of general formula IVEMI28.1 in which Hal is chlorine or bromine, n 1 5, R1 and R2 having the same meaning as in the group of formula III, as defined in claim 2, which is thereafter converted to the isaxazole by reaction with hydrlamine. 12. 5 4 chlorophenyl 3 ethylamino N carboxyethanoyl isoxazole. 13. 5 4 chlorophenyl 3 ethylamino N carboxycartbonyl isoxazole. 14. Novel compounds of formula I as defined in claim 1 other than those claimed in claims 12 and 13. 15. Anticoccidial cOition as hereinbefore described with particular reference to the Examples. 16. Process for preparing compounds of formula I in which t 1, q 0 and X is a halo substituted phenyl radical and Y is a mono or dialaylarinOradical as hereinbefore described with particular reference to the Examples.

## Description
ANTICOCCIDIAL COMPOSITION, POULTRY FEED, METHOD FOR PREPARING A POULTRY FEED, METHOD FOR TREATING POULTRY, METHOD FOR REARING BIRDS, PROCESS FOR PREPARING ISOXAZOLES AND NOVEL ISOXAZOLES The present invention relates to anticoocidial compositions comprising certain isoxazoles and their use. It further inclus biddfeeds comprising such isasrazoles. Certain of these isaxazoles are novel and are therefore claimed per se.. It is well known that birds, particularly poultry, are susoeptible to debilitating infection with coccidia, which can be fatal. A number of avian coccidia are known, and there is a need in the poultry rearing industry for compounds effective against one or more coccidia. Coccidial infection is a serious problem in poultry husbandry, particularly wE the birds are kept under broiler house conditions.It has now been found that pertain iscowzoles are capable of exhibiting good anticcidia1 properties against Eimeria tenella, Eimeria acervulina, Eimeria maxima, Eimeria brunetti and Eimeria necatrix, when administered arally to poultry like chickens and turkeys at appropriate dose levels. Accordingly the present invention provides an anticoccidial curposition which cccprises an anticoccidially effective ant of a compound of the general formula I EMI1.1 ,in which A represents hydrogen, C1, Br, I, CN or NO2, X represents a hydrogen atan or an optionally substituted allyl, aralkyl, aryl, alkaryl, or a heterocyclic group and Y represents an amino or substituted amino group, or a nitrogen containing heterocyclic group, or a group of general formula IIEMI2.1 in which m is 1 or 0, Z is oxygen or sulphur, Q is hydrogen orCHR, in which R is an alkyl group having 1 4 carbon atans or a halogen ataa, or Q is CH2 n, n being 0 5 or O is CH Hal orCH2Hal wherein Hal is halogen, Rê is hydrogen or an optionally substituted alkyl or cycloalkyl group, k k is 0 or 1, p is 0 5, M is a heterocyclic group containing 1 or more nitrogen atoms, or is halogen, hydrogen, NHRÚ, SRÚ, ORÚ, NRÚ, RÚ, N or N , RÚ being an optionally substituted phenyl group, hydrogen or an alkyl group having 1 4 carbon atoms optionally substituted by OH, COOH or cooalkyl, the alkyl group having 1 4 carbon atoms, q being 1 or 0, and t is 1 4 or then t 1 and q O Y represents a group of general formula III and M and q having the meaning as defined beforeEMI2.2 in which RÚ and R2, which can be the same or different, each represent a hydrogen atan or an optionally substituted C2 C6 alkyl, cycloalkyl, alkenyl, aryl, alkaryl, aralkyl, acyl, carboxy, alkoxycarbonyl, alkylcarbonyl, dialkoxycarbonyl or sulphonyl goup, or in which RÚ and Rê together form a ring structure, which including the N atan is preferably a 5 or 6 membered ring structure or a salt thereof together with a veterinarily acceptable carrier. Preferably the anticoccidial composition comprises a compound of formula I in which Y is a group of general formula II in which R2 is an allyl group having 1 4 carton atans, Z is aKygen, Q is CH2 n wherein n is 0 3, k 0, m l, p 0, gel, t 1 and M is OH. Another preferred anticoccidial composition comprises a compound of fonrula I in which X represents an aralkyl, aryl, alkaryl, or a substituted heterocyclic group, of which at least e of the substituents is an electron withdrawing group. More preferred the anticoccidial composition comprises a axtond of formula I in which X represents a phenyl group substituted by at least chlorine or bromine. Still more preferred is an anticocciiial cocrosition which comprises a compound of formula I in which X is p chlorophenyl and Y isEMI3.1 Said id composieion is preferably of the nature of the conventional kind of poultry premix save that the active anticoccidial component is a carpaund of formula I or a salt form thereof and such a premix may contain other additives, for example, vitamins, minerals, antibiotics and anti oxidants as is normal practice the concentration of anticoccidial and other additives, if present being such that an effective dose is provided by mixing of the order of 0.5 wt of the premix with the base feedstuff. The feedstuff for sale to the poultry farmer can be made in accordance with conventional practice by mixing the premix thoroughly with the base feedstuff, using an indicator to monitor samples taken during the mixing grinding operation to ensure the required quality of mixing is achieved, followed by coagulation with a starch additive at about 700C to produce a granular feed product. Therefore the present invention also includes a feed suitable for a bird, particularly a bird, for example a chicken or a turkey, intended human consumption, which contains a compound of faritula I, and a method of making such a feed by mixing with, or therwise incorporating in, bird edible material a compound of formula I preferably by adding to that material a premix as referred to above. The present invention also includes a method for treating poultry infected by coccidia in order to prevent the premat re mortality or physical deterioration of the poultry. The method is particularly useful to treat chickens and turkeys, intended for human consumption.The method comprise administering thereto, preferably in a mixture with its feed, a compound of formula I or a composition as defined above. The present invention also includes a method of rearing birds, for example chickens or turkeys, for ultimate human consumption, which comprises orally administering thereto a compound of formula I, or a composition as defined above or a feed as defined above. The present invention also includes processes for preparing the at present preferred isoxazoles of formula I in which X is a halo substituted phenyl radical and Y is a mono or di alkylamino radical such as a group of general formula II. The isoprazoles in which Y is a mono alkylamino radical can be prepared by reacting a halo substituted acetophenore with an alkyl isothiocyanate and methyl iddide in the presence of sodium hydride to form an intermediate of general formula EMI4.1 which is thereafter converted to the isoxazole by reaction with hydroxylamine. The isorxazoles in which Y is a di alkylamino radical can be prepared fran a halo substituted acetophenone by forming a similar intermediate of general formula EMI4.2 by a two stage reaction comprising first reacting the halosubstituted acetophenone with carbon disuiphide and methyl iodide in the presence of sodium hydride and then reacting the product with a di alkylamine. The e resulting intermediate is thereafter converted to the isoxazole by reaction with hydroxylamine. The following examples further illustrate the present invention.Example I 3 ethylamino 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole No. 3 in Table I 1 4 chlorophenyl 3 ethylamino 3 methylthioprop 2 en 1 one 26g , and hydroxylamine hrdrohloride lOg in pyridine 15ml were heated together under reflux for 3 4 hours.The solvent was then removed under reduced pressure and the residue dissolved in chloroform. The chloroform after washing with water was removed and the residue crystallised fran methanol to give the required 3 ethylamino 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole mpt. 134 135 C . Analysis Calculated for C11H11ON2cl C 59.3 H 5.0 N 12.6 found C 59.2 H 5.0 N 12.5Example II 3 diethylamino 5 4 bromophenyl isoxazole No. 15 in Table I 1 4 bromophenyl 3,3 diethylamino 3 methylthioprop 2en 1 one bromophenyl 10g and hydroxylamine hydrochloride 0.5g in pyridine 15ml were heated under reflux for 3 4 hours. The solvent was then removed under reduced pressure and the residue dissolved in diethylether. The diethylether after washing with water was removed and the residue was purified by chromatzgraphy on silica gel using chloroform as eluent to give the required 3 diethylamino 5 4 bromophenyl isoxa2ole m. pt 75 76 C .Analysis Calculated for C13H15ON2Br C 52.9 H 5.1 N 9.5 faund C 52.8 H 5.8 N 9.4 Example III 3 ethylamino N carboxyethanoyl 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole No. 22 in Table I 3 ethylamino 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole 25g as prepared according to Example I and ethylmalonylchloride technical 20g and triethylamine 20g in chloroform were treated under reflux for 1 hours. The 3 ethylamino N carboxyethanoyl 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole was hydrolysed to the required acid by dissolving the ester in acetone 150mls adding K2CO3 15g and stirring at 550C for 14 hours. The solvent was removed and residue dissolved in water and acidified with 2N HCl. The acid obtains was then filtered and dried 12g . Enaaple IV 3 ethylamino 4 chloro 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole No. 29 in Table I Dichloromethane solution 100 ml of chlorine 1.5g added to 3 ethylamino 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole 4.4g in dichloromethane 100 ml at 100C. me dichlorntethane solution after washing with 5 patassiun carbonate solution was removed under reduced pressure and the residue crystallised fran methanol to give the required 3 ethylamino 4 chloro 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole 4.6g mpt.1270C. Analysis Calculated for C C1lEloCN2Cl2 C 51.4 H 3.9 N 10.9 Found C 51.2 H 3.8 N 10.8Example V 3 ethylamino 4 cyano 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole No. 30 in Table I 1 4 chlorophenyl 2 cyano 3 ethylamino 3 methylthio prop 2 en 1 one 6.5g and hydroxylamine 1.4g in pryridine 50ml water 4ml was kept at 0 C for 24 hours. me solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue dissolved in chloroform. me e chloroform after washing with water was and the residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel using hexane ether 1 2 as eluent to give 3 ethylaminc 4 cyanc 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole mpt. 183 C. Analysis Calculated for C12H10ON3Br C 49.3 H 3.45 N 14.4 Found C 49.4 H 3.3 N 14.2Example VI 3 N 2 bromoethanoyl N ethylamino 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole No. 31 in Table I 3 ethylamino 5 4Úchlorophenyl isoxazole 22.2g and bromoacetylbromide 1O.lg refluxed in chloroform for 2 hours.The solution was cooled and triethylamino 50.0g added. The chloroform solution after washing with water was removed under reduced pressure and the residue crystallised from hexane to give required 3 N 2Úbromoethanoyl N ethylamino 5 4 chloro phenylisoxazole 34g npt 740C. AnalysisCalculated for C13H12N2O2ClBr C 45.4 H 3.5 N 8.2Found C 45.8 H 3.5 N 8.1 Example VII 3 N 2 ethylamino ethanoyl N ethylamino 5 4 chloro phenyl isoxazole No. 32 in Table I A ether solution of 3 N 2 bromoethanoyl N ethylamino 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole 5.1g as prepared according toExample VI was added to ethylamino 10ml in ether 100ml .After 1 hour the ether mixture after having been washed with 5 potassiun carbonate solution was removed under reduced pressure and the residue rrcrystallised fran heeane to give the reeuired 3 N 2 ethylaminoethanoyl N ethylamino 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole 4.1g mpt 840C.AnalysisCalculated for C15H18O2N3Cl C 58.5 H 5.9 N 13.7Found C 58.7 H 5.4 N 13.6Example VIII 3 N 2 chloroethanoyl N ethylamino 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole No. 33 in Table I Potassium carbonate l.Og 7.25mmol in water 10cm was added dropwise, with stirring, to a solution of i 3 N 2 chloro 3 ethoxy propan 1 ,3 dioyl N ethylamino 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole 2.5g 6.74mmol in ethanol 20cm at room temperature. The mixture was heated to 450C for 3 hours, allowed to cool, and stood at roan temperature for 15 hours.The solvent was then removed as far as practicable, on a rotary evaporator, the residues then washed with water, extracted intoCHCl3, and chromatographed silica CH2Cl2 . The product yield was 1.2g 59.5 .AnalysisCalculated C13H12N2 2C12 C 52.2 H 4.0 N 9.4Found C 52.2 H 3.9 N 9.2 Example IX 3 N 2 ,2 dichloro 3 ethoxy propan 1 ,3 dioyl N ethylamino 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole No. 34 in Table I Chlorine gas 0.93g 13.1mmol in carton tetrachloride 21.5m was added dropwise, with stirring, to a solution of 5 4 chlorophenyl 3 N 3 ethoxypropan 1 ,3 dioyl N ethylamino isoxazole 4.4g 13.1mmol in carbon tetrachloride 40cm , and stirred at roam temperature for 1 hour. The solvent was then removed and the residual oil eluted down a silica CH2C12 column. This yielded 0.9g 17.0 of the product. AnalysisCalculated C16H15N2O4Cl3 C 47.3 H 3.7 N 6.9 Found C 47.1 H 3.7 N 6.8 Example X 3 N 2 chloro 3 ethoxy propan 1 ,3 dioyl N ethyl amino 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole No. 35 in Table I Chlorine gas 0,93g 13.1mmol in carbon tetrachloride 21.5cm was added dropwise, with stirring, to a solution of 5 4 chlorophenyl 3 N 3 ethoxypropan 1 ,3 dioyl N ethyla minolisoxazole 4.4g 13.1mmol in carbon tetrachloride 40cm , and stirred at roan temperature for 1 hour. The solvent was then removed and the residual oil eluted down a silica CH2C12 column. Ihis afforded 3.7g 76.3 of the above product. AnalysisCalculated C16H16N2O4Cl2 C 51.8 H 4.3 N 7.5Found C 51.6 H 4.3 N 7.4Example XI 3 N 2 acetoxyethanoyl N ethylamino 4 chloro 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole Chlorine gas 0.5g 7.04mmol in carbon tetrachloride 5.6cm3 was added dropwise, with vigorous stirring, to a solution of 3 N 2 acetoxyethanoyl N ethylamino 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole 1.1g 3.4lmmol in carbon tetrachloride 25cm and the mixture stirred at room temperature for 30hours. The solvent was removed and the residual oil chromatographed silica diethylether petroleum ether 1 1 1 yielding 1.0g 82.1 of product as an oil.AnalysisCalculated C15H14N2O4Cl2 C 50.4 H 3.9 N 7.8Found C 50.8 H 4.1 N 7.5Example XII 3 N ethylamino 5 4 trifluoromethylphenyl isoxazole No. 37 in Table I 3 N ethylamino 1 4 trifluoromethylphenyl 3 methylthio prop 2 en 1 one 2.8g 9.7mmol in dry pyridine 30mcm was treated with hydroxylamine hydrochloride 1.0g 14mmo1 at 60 C for 2 1 2 hours. The product was chromatographed silica CH2CL2 yielding 2.2g 88.7 .AnalysisCalculated C12H11N2OF3 C 56.3 H 4.3 N 10.9Found C 56.5 H 4.2 N 10.9 Example XIII 3 N 2 acetoxyethanoyl N ethylamino 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole NO. 38 in Table I 3 N 2 bromoethanoyl N ethylamino 5 4 chloropenyl isoxazole 1g refluxed in acetic acid 30ml with sodium acetate 1g for 4 hours. The e mixture was Poured onto ice water and extracted with ether.The ether was removed under reduced pressure and residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel using chloroform as eluent to give 3 N 2 acetoxyethanoyl N ethylamino 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole 0.6g mpt 82 CAnalysis Calculated C15H15N2O4Cl C 55.8 H 4.7 N 8.7 Found C 55.7 H 4.5 N 8.5 In Table I examples of oclFounds are shewn which have been preferred according to the process as described before. Table II gives details of the test results obtained in the in vivo testing of three typical isoxazoles which can be used in carrying out the present intention. The tests have been indicated as Exp. 1, Exp. 2, Exp. 3 and Exp. 4 Chickens were infected orally with a quantity of sporulatedEimeria tenella Weybridge strain Obcycsts the sizes of inoculum used being 50,000, 75,000 and 100,000. The isoxazole content of the broiler feed being either 125 ppn or 250 ppm.The results given in the table are those obtained with uninfeceed, untreated carol birds and those obtained with infected birds treated either with the solvent placebo or with the specified isoxazole or with one or other of the two commercially available anticoccidials, Nicarbazin and Monensin Table III gives details of test results obtained in the in vivo testing of 3 ethylamino N carboxyethanoyl 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole compound 22 against Eimeria tenella and Eimeria necatrix. Table IV gives results of an in vitro evaluation of certain ounds against E. tenella. Table INO Compound Melting Point Analysis C C H N 1 3 methylamino 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole 172 4 Calculated C10H9ON2Cl 57.6 4.3 13.4 Found 57.4 4.4 13.4 2 3 methylamino 5 2 ,5 dichlorophenyl 160 C10H8ON2Cl2 49.4 3.3 11.5 isoxazole 49.2 3.2 11.6 3 3 methylamino 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole 134 135 C11H11ON2Cl 59.3 5.0 12.6 59.2 5.0 12.5 4 3 methylamino Nacetyl 5 4 chloro 118 119 C12H11O2N2Cl 57.5 4.4 11.2 phenyl isoxazole 57.6 4.2 11.3 5 3 cyclopropylamino 5 4 chlorophenyl 124 125 C12H11ON2Cl 61.4 4.7 11.9 isoxazole 61.0 4.7 11.9 6 3 methylamino 5 4 bromophenyl isoxazole 167 C10H9ON2Br 47.4 3.6 11.1 47.2 3.4 11.1 7 3 piperidyl 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole 137 138 C14H15ON2Cl 64.0 5.7 10.7 63.7 5.5 10.6 8 3 methylamino 5 phenyl isoxazole 84 85 C10H10ON2 68.9 5.8 16.1 69.1 5.8 16.2 9 3 methylamino 5 4 methylphenyl isoxazole 115 116 C11H12ON2 70.2 6.4 14.9 70.0 6.3 14.7 TABLE I continued NO Compound Melting Point Analysis C C H N 10 3 dimethylamino 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole 120 122 C11H11ON2Cl 57.3 3.0 12.0 58.8 4.9 12.5 11 3 N morpholinyl 5 4 bromphenyl isoxazole 75 C13H13N2O2Br 50.5 4.2 9.1 50.8 4.0 9.1 12 3 methylamino N methylsulphonyl 5 182 3 C11H11N2O3SCl 46.1 3.9 9.8 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole 46.2 4.0 9.8 13 3 methylamino 5 4 flurophenyl isoxazole 143 144 C10H9N2OF 62.5 4.7 14.6 62.0 4.8 14.5 14 3 Ethylamino 5 4 bromophenyl isoxazole 135 136 C11H11ON2Br 49.5 4.1 10.5 49.6 4.2 10.5 15 3 diethylamino 5 4 bromophenyl isoxazole 75 76 C13H15ON2Br 52.9 5.1 9.5 52.8 5.3 9.4 16 3 methylamino N acetyl 5 4 bromo 140 141 C12H11O2N2Br 48.8 3.8 9.5 phenyl isoxazole 48.5 3.7 9.4 17 3 methylamino 5 2 chlorophenyl isoxazole 75 76 C10H9ON2Cl 57.6 4.3 13.4 57.3 4.5 13.3 TABLE I continued NO Compound Melting Point Analysis C C H N 18 3 methylamino 5 3 bromphenyl isoxazole 91 92 C10H9ON2Br 47.4 3.6 11.1 47.1 3.5 10.6 19 3 methylamino 5 3,4 dichlorophenyl isoxazole 95 C10H8ON2Cl2 49.4 3.3 11.5 49.9 3.2 10.9 20 3 allylamino 5 4 bromophenyl isoxazole 126 C12H11ON2Br 51.6 4.0 10.0 50.4 3.9 10.0 21 3 ethylamino N carboxy carbonyl 5 129 C13H11O4N2Cl 53.0 3.7 9.5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole 52.6 3.6 9.3 22 3 ethylamino N carboxyethanoyl 5 142 C14H13O4N2Cl 54.5 4.2 9.1 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole 54.4 4.0 9.0 23 5 4 chlorophenyl 3 N ethyl, N 2 methoxy 107 C14H15N2O3Cl 57.05 5.1 9.5 ethanoamide isoxazole 56.9 5.0 9.3 24 5 4 chlorophenyl 3 N ethyl, N 2 methyl 113 C14H16N3O2Cl 57.2 5.5 14.3 amino ethanoamide isoxazole 57.3 5.5 14.2 25 5 4 chlorophenyl 3 N ethyl 2 imidazol yl 166 C16H15O2N4Cl 58.3 4.6 17.0 ethanoamide isoxazole 58.4 4.5 16.7 TABLE I continued NO Compound Melting Point Analysis C C H N 26 5 4 chlorophenyl 3 N ethyl, N formyl isoxazole 94 C12H11O2N2Cl 57.5 4.4 11.2 57.8 4.3 11.05 27 5 4 chlorophenyl 3 N ethyl 2 4 nitrophenoxy 148 C19H16O5N3Cl 56.8 4.0 10.5 ethanoamide isoxazole 56.7 3.6 10.2 28 5 4 chlorophenyl 3 N ethyl N N 2 ethano 245 C15H17O4N3Cl2 48.1 4.6 11.2 amido N ethanoic acid isoxazole hydrochloride 48.4 4.5 11.1 29 3 ethylamino 4 chloro 5 4 chlorophenyl 127 C11H10ON2Cl2 51.4 3.9 10.9 isoxazole 51.2 3.8 10.8 30 3 ethylamino 4 cyano 5 4 chlorophenyl 183 C12H10ON3Br 49.3 3.5 14.4 isoxazole 49.4 3.3 14.2 31 3 N 2 bromoethanoyl N ethylamino 5 4 74 C13H12O2N2CIBr 45.4 3.5 8.2 chlorophenyl isoxazole 45.8 3.5 8.1 32 3 N 2 ethylaminoethanoyl N ethylamino 5 84 C15H18O2N3Cl 58.5 5.9 13.7 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole 58.7 5.4 13.6 TABLE I continued NO Compound Melting Point Analysis C C H N 33 3 N 2 chloroethanoyl N ethylamino 5 4 chloro oil C13H12N2O2Cl2 52.2 4.0 9.4 phenyl isoxazole 52.2 3.9 9.2 34 3 N 2 ,2 dichloro 3 ethoxypropan 1 ,3 dioyl N oil C16H15N2O4Cl3 47.3 3.7 6.9 ethylamino 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole 47.1 3.7 6.8 35 3 N 2 chloro 3 ethoxy propan 1 ,3dioyl N ethyl oil C16H16N2O4Cl2 51.8 4.3 7.5 amino 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole 51.6 4.3 7.4 36 3 N 2 acetoxyethanoyl N ethylamino 4 chloro oil C15H14N2O4Cl2 50.4 3.9 7.8 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole 50.8 4.1 7.5 37 3 N ethylamino 5 4 trifluoromethyl isoxazole C12H11N2OF3 56.3 4.3 10.9 56.5 4.2 10.9 38 3 N 2 acetoxyethanoyl N ethylamino 5 4 chloro 82 C15H15N2O4Cl 55.8 4.7 8.7 phenyl isoxazole 55.7 4.5 8.5 TABLE I continued NO Compound Melting Point Analysis C C H N 39 3 N ethylamino N formyl 4 chloro 5 4 chloro 53 C12H10O2N2Cl2 50.6 3.5 9.8 phenyl isoxazole 50.4 3.5 9.8 40 3 N ethylamino N acetyl 4 chloro 5 4 chloro 81 C13H12O2N2Cl2 52.2 4.0 9.4 phenyl isoxazole 52.4 4.1 9.3 41 3 N 2 bromoehanoyl N ethylamino 4 chloro 5 125 C13H11O2N2Cl2Br 41.3 2.9 7.4 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole 41.4 3.0 7.7 42 3 N 2 methylaminoethylamino 4 69 C14H15O2N3Cl2 51.2 4.6 12.8 chloro 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole 51.6 4.6 12.8 43 3 ethylamino 4 bromo 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole 109 C11H10ON2ClBr 43.8 3.3 9.3 44.3 3.4 9.5 44 3 ethylamino 4 bromo 5 4 methoxyphenyl isoxazole 102 C12H13O2N2Br 48.5 4.4 9.4 48.6 4.4 9.5 TABLE I continued NO Compound Melting Point Analysis C C H N 45 3 N 2 bromoethanoyl N ethylamino 5 4 bromo 94 C13H12O2N2Br2 40.2 3.1 7.2 phenyl isoxazole 40.4 3.1 7.3 46 3 ethylamino 4 bromo 5 4bromophenyl isoxazole 120 C11H10ON2Br2 38.2 2.9 8.1 38.3 2.9 8.0 47 3 N 2 acetoxyethanoyl N ethylamino 5 4 bromo 114 C15H15O4N2Br 49.1 4.1 7.6 phenyl isoxazole 49.0 4.1 7.7 48 3 N 2 bromoethanoyl N ethylamino 4 bromo 143 C13H11O2N2Br2Cl 37.0 2.6 6.6 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole 37.4 2.6 6.7 49 3 N 2 fluoroacetoxyethanoyl N ethylamino 5 4 110 C15H14N204ClF 52.9 4.1 8.2 chlorophenyl isoxazo1e 52.9 4.2 8.2 50 3 N acetyl N ethylamino 4 bromo, 6 4 chloro 106 C13H12N2O2ClBr 45.3 3.5 8.1 phenyl isoxazole 45.4 3.4 8.2 TABLE I continued NO Compound Melting Point Analysis C C H N 51 3 N 2 methylaminoethanoyl N ethylamino 4 bromo 84 C14H15N3O2ClBr 45.1 4.1 11.3 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole 45.0 4.1 11.2 52 3 N ethylamino, N formyl 4 bromo 5 4 chloro 67 C12H10O2N2ClBr 43.7 3.1 8.5 phenyl isoxazole 43.6 3.0 8.5 53 3 N 2 bromoethanoyl N ethylamino 4 bromo 150 C13H11N2O2Br3 33.4 2.4 6.0 5 4 bromophenyl isoxazole 33.5 2.5 6.2 54 3 N 2 acetoxyethanoyl N ethylamino 4 bromo 60 C15H14N2O4BrCl 44.9 3.5 4.0 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole 45.0 3.6 7.0 55 3 N 2 methylaminoethanoyl N ethylamino 116 C14H16N3O2Br 49.7 4.8 12.4 5 4 bromophenyl isoxazole 49.8 4.8 12.5 56 3 N trichloroacetyl N ethylamino 5 4 chloro 99 C13H10N2O2Cl4 42.4 2.7 7.6 phenyl isoxazole 42.5 2.8 7.6 TABLE I continued NO Compound Melting Point Analysis C C H N 57 3 N 2 acetoxyethanoyl N ethylamino 4chloro 47 C15H14N2O4ClBr 44.8 3.5 7.0 5 4 bromophenyl isoxazole 44.9 3.8 7.2 58 3 N 2 acetoxyethanoyl N ethylamino 4bromo 65 C15H14N2O4Br2 40.4 3.2 6.3 5 4 bromophenyl isoxazole 40.5 3.1 6.3 59 3 N 2 ethylaminoethanoyl N ethylamino 4 bromo 62 C15H17N3O2ClBr 46.6 4.4 10.9 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole 46.6 4.5 11.1 60 3 N ethylamino 4 chloro 5 4 bromophenyl 144 C11H10ON2ClBr 43.8 3.3 9.3 isoxazole 43.7 3.3 9.3 61 3 N 2 acetoxy thioethanoyl N ethylamino 5 106 C15H15N2O3SCl 53.2 4.4 8.3 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole 53.2 4.4 8.4 62 3 N 2 acetoxy propanoyl N ethylamino 5 4 70 C16H17N2O4Cl 57.0 5.1 8.3 chlorophenyl isoxazole 57.2 4.7 8.5 TABLE I continued NO Compound Melting Point Analysis C C H N 63 3 N 2 acetoxy chloroethanoyl N ethylamino 90 C15H14N2O4CL2 50.4 3.9 7.8 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole 50.5 4.0 8.0 64 3 N 2 acetoxy dichloroethanoyl N ethylamino 102 C15H13N2O4Cl3 46.0 3.3 7.2 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole 46.4 3.4 7.4 65 3 N hydroxyacetyl N ethylamino 5 4 chlorophenyl 118 C13H13N2O3Cl 55.6 4.6 10.0 isoxazole 55.8 4.6 10.0 66 3 N hydroxy acetyl N ethylamino 4 chloro 5 104 C13H12N2O3Cl2 49.5 3.9 8.9 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole 49.8 4.0 8.4 67 3 methylamino 4 chloro 5 3 4 dichlorophenyl 143 C10H7N2OCl3 43.2 2.5 10.1 isoxazole 43.9 2.7 10.3 68 3 N 2 bromoethanoyl N methylamino 5 3 4 di 132 C12H9N2O2CL2Br 39.6 2.5 7.7 chlorophenyl isoxazole 40.1 2.5 7.7 TABLE I continued NO Compound Melting Point Analysis C C H N 69 3 N 2 acetoxythioethanoyl N ethylamino 4 oil C15H14N2O3SCl2 48.3 3.8 7.5 chloro 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole 48.3 3.8 7.7 70 3 N 2 ethylaminoethanoyl N ethylamino 33 C15H17N3O2Cl2 52.6 5.0 12.3 4 chloro 5 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole 53.8 5.1 12.3 71 3 N trichloroacetyl N ethylamino 4 bromo 5 oil C13H9N2O2Cl4Br 34.9 2.0 6.3 4 chlorophenyl isoxazole 35.3 2.1 6.2 TABLE IIExp. No. Compound Dose No. oöcysts in survivalÚ weight gainê co cci index ppm infection dose A B A B 1 NO additive uninfected chickens 0 100 100 200 Placebo 50.000 100 66.1 166.1 3 250 50.000 100 98.9 198.9 Nicarbazin 125 50.000 100 105.9 205.9 2 NO additive uninfected chickens 0 100 100 200 Placebo 75.000 100 24 124 3 250 75.000 100 66.4 166.5 3 125 75.000 100 80 180 6 250 75.000 100 71.8 171.8 Nicarbazin 125 75.000 100 88.5 188.5 3 NO additive uninfected chickens 0 100 100 200 Placebo 100.000 100 44.2 144.2 3 250 100.000 100 79.4 179.4 3 125 100.000 100 60.8 160.8 6 250 100.000 100 67.7 167.7 6 125 100.000 100 51.1 151.1 Monensin 125 100.000 100 70.8 170.8 TABLE II Continued Exp. No.Compound Dose No. oöcysts in survivalÚ weight gainê cocci index ppm infection dose A B A B 4 NO additive uninfected chickens 0 100 100 200 Placebo 100.000 0 78 78 3 250 100.000 100 94 194 6 250 100.000 20 30 50 14 250 100.000 100 167 267 Monensin 125 100.000 0 106 106 5 non infected 200 infected, 75.000 86.8 untreated Monensin 110 75.000 133.5 3 125 75.000 155.5 22 125 75.000 129.8 31 125 75.000 166.2Notes 1 Deaths on day 5, 6 and 7 post infection. 2 Weight gain of uninfected control group is taken as 100 TABLE IIIExp. No. Compound Dose No. oöcysts in Eimeria survivalÚ weight gainê cocci index ppm infection dose Strain A B A B 5 No additive uninfected chickens 0 100 100 200 placebo 75.000 E.tenella 100 9.6 109.6 22 150 75.000 E.tenella 100 86.8 186.8 6 No additive uninfected chickens 0 100 100 200 placebo E.necatrix 100 86.2 186.2 22 150 100 96.5 196.5 TABLE IV Invitro Evaluation against E. tenellaCompound No. Dose ppm 100 Effective 50 Effective 36 10 3 10 6 41 10 2 10 3 39 10 3 10 5 40 10 2 10 5 42 10 3 10 3 46 10 2 10 5 42 10 2 10 4