# PRODUCTION OF HUMAN T CELL LEUKEMIA LYMPHOTROPIC RETROVIRUS HTLV 1 ENVELOPE PROTEIN FRAGMENTS IN BACTERIA AND USE IN SEROEPIDEMIOLOGICAL SURVEY OF HUMAN LYMPHOID MALIGNANCIES

## Claims
Verfahren zur Herstellung von retroviralen HTLV I Hüllproteinen mit den Schritten

## Description
Two regions of the gene for the HTLV I envelope were expressed in It has been found, and is the subject of this invention, that where the HTLV envelope protein is isolated into fragments such as the 400 base pair bp and 300 bp, these fragments placed in a common vector and in bacteria can be utilized in competition testing where the protein here is used as the antigen and mixed with sera of patients to show that said competition analysis will be almost 100 positive for patients of HTLV I. Human T cell leukemia virus subgroup I HTLV I is a retrovirus causatively linked to certain adult lymphoid malignancies, notably adult T cell leukemia lymphoma ATL . Two other isolates HTLV II , including one from a patient with T cell hairy cell leukemia, are clearly related to HTLV I but significantly differ in antigen assays and in their genomes. A third subgroup of HTLV HTLV III has recently been described Popovic, et al, Antibodies that react with HTLV I proteins have been found in the sera of ATL patients. These antibodies recognize both the Initial attempts to express the entire HTLV I envelope were unsuccessful, possibly because this protein can interact with the bacterial cell membrane in much a way as to be toxic to the cell. Kiyokawa et al in 81 Proc. Natl, Acad of Sci, USA 6202 6206 October 1984 discloses a method of producing HTLV I retroviral envelope proteins comprising the steps of The present invention is characterised by a method of producing HTLV I retroviral envelope proteins comprising the steps of Thus in one embodiment individual fragments coding for specific regions of the envelope were inserted into pJLA6 by use of polynucleotide linkers Fig. 1 . Such plasmids were introduced into Before the filing date of this application there were deposited in the American Type Culture Collection ATCC envelope gene fragments pKS300 and pKS400 respectively under the numbers ATCC No. 39902 and ATCC No. 39903. This depository assures permanence of the deposit and availability to the public upon the issuance of a patent related directly to this patent application. Figure 1 is the construction of plasmids pKS300 and pKS400. Figure 2 is the expression of the HTLV I envelope gene in Figure 3 is the recognition of bacterial synthesized HTLV I envelope protein by antibodies in human serum. Lautenberger et al, Lautenberger et al, Lautenberger et al, Lautenberger et al, in Gene Amplification and Analysis, Vol. 3, Expression of Cloned Genes in Prokaryotic and Eukaryotic Cells, Papas et al eds. , New York Amsterdam Elsevier, pp. 147 174. In the invention the HTLV I Sera from many patients with HTLV I associated ATL and certain other lymphoid malignancies contain antibodies to proteins that have been shown to be the product of the viral Since the bacterially synthesized HTLV I The sera from all positive AIDS which reacted with HTLV I in ELISA contained antibodies that recognized the bacterial synthesized HTLV I The results presented here demonstrate the importance of using bacterially synthesized proteins to study the properties of antibodies in human serum. Since the structure of the genes for such proteins can be controlled by recombinant DNA techniques, the antigens produced by these methods have a defined structure. Construction of plasmids pKS300 and pKS400. Plasmid pHTLV I HX CR was obtained by subcloning the 5.7 kb Hind III XbaI fragment of lambda CR1 Manzari et al, MZ1 pKS400 cells were grown at 32 C, induced at 42 C, and lysed in the presence of 1 SDS 0.1 beta mercaptoethanol. Protein in the extracts were resolved by SDS PAGE and electrophoretically transferred to nitrocellulose paper by the Western blot procedure. After transfer, filters were air dried and soaked in TBS NDM 50 mM Tris HCl, pH 7.5, 500 mM NaCl, 3 Nonfat Dry Milk . The filters were incubated overnight at room temperature in TBS NDM plus 1 77 volume human serum as indicated below. Filters were then washed with TBS NDM for 30 min and then incubated with 10⁵ cpm ¹²⁵I protein A NEN . The filter was then washed with TBS NDM and finally with TBS. The filters were air dried and protein bands reacting with antibody were visualized by autoradiography. The sera used were 1 American ATL patient 2 T cell hairy cell leukemia pateint Mo Ref. 4 3 Healthy normal 4 Health normal 5 Healthy normal 6 Healthy relative of ATL patient 7 Healthy normal 8 Japanese ATL patient 9 AIDS patients found to be HTLV II by ELISA disrupted virus antigen 10 AIDS patient found to be HTLV I by ELISA disrupted virus antigen 11 Healthy normal 12 American ATL patient 13 Mycosis fungoides patient 14 Healthy normal found to be HTLV I by ELISA disrupted virus antigen . Uninduced and induced extracts pKS400.2 reacted with patients MJ serum HTLV I positive by ELISA .