# CEPHALOSPORIN ANTIBIOTICS

## Claims
Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragsstaaten BE, CH, DE, FR, GB, IT, LI, LU, NL, SE

## Description
This invention relates to improvements in or relating to cephalosporins. More particularly it relates to new cephalosporin compounds and derivatives thereof having valuable antibiotic activity. The cephalosporin compounds in this specification are named with reference to cepham after Thus, for example, in our British Patent Specification No. 1399086, we describe a novel class of cephalosporin antibiotics containing a 7β α etherified oxyimino acylamido group, the oxyimino group having the The discovery of this class of compounds has stimulated further research in the same area in attempts to find compounds which have improved properties, for example against particular classes of organisms, especially Gram negative organisms. This interest is reflected in the very large numbers of patent applications which have been filed relating to cephalosporin antibiotics having particular oxyimino etherifying groups in combination with particular substituents both on the 7β acylamido side chain and at the 3 position of the cephalosporin nucleus. In British Patent specification No. 1604971 a wide variety of cephalosporin antibiotics are generically disclosed in which the 7β position side chain may be selected from, British Patent specification No. 1576625 contains a generic definition of cephalosporin compounds having a 7β α etherified oxyimino acetamido side chain wherein the etherifying group is an aliphatic hydrocarbon group which may have suitable substituent s although the suitable substituent s specifically mentioned for illustration do not include halogen atoms , which side chain is further α substituted by a group which In British Patent Application No. 2039890A a wide variety of cephalosporin antibiotics are generically disclosed in which the 7β position side chain is a 2 2 aminothiazol 4 yl 2 etherified oxyimino acetamido group. One possible etherifying group recited is a halo lower alkyl group with a fluoromethyl group being mentioned In British Patent Application No. 2017702A the corresponding oxyimino etherifying group, according to the generic definition, may European Patent Application No. 111935 generically defines cephalosporin compounds in which the 7β position side chain may be selected from, French Patent Specification No. 2499995 discloses cephalosporin antibiotics having a 2 2 aminothiazol 4 yl 2 etherified oxyimino acetamido 7β side chain wherein the oxime etherifying group may be Japanese Patent Specification No. 58167594 describes cephalosporin antibiotics having in the 7β position a 2 2 aminothiazol 4 yl 2 etherified oxyimino acetamido group in which the etherifying group is lower alkyl optionally substituted British Patent Specification No. 1600735 also discloses a large number of cephalosporin antibiotics including within its generic disclosure compounds in which the 7 substituent is a 2 2 aminothiazol 4 yl 2 etherified oxyimino acetamido group, the oxime etherifying group being defined We have now discovered that by the selection of a Z 2 2 aminothiazol 4 yl 2 etherified oxyimino acetamido group at the 7β position in combination with a methoxymethyl group at the 3 position, and also by the selection of a monofluoro methoxyimino group as the etherified oxyimino grouping, cephalosporin compounds having a particularly advantageous profile of activity described in more detail below against a wide range of commonly encountered pathogenic organisms may be obtained. According to the present invention, therefore we provide compounds of the general formula I where R¹ is a carboxyl or blocked carboxyl group Where R¹ is a blocked carboxyl group the blocking group may, for example, be the residue of an ester forming aliphatic or araliphatic alcohol or of an ester forming phenol, silanol or stannanol the said alcohol, phenol, silanol or stannanol preferably containing from 1 to 20 carbon atoms . Where R² is a protected amino group, the protecting group may be, for example, a trityl or acyl for example chloroacetyl or formyl group or the amino group may be protonated. The compounds according to the invention are It will be understood that since the compounds according to the invention are geometric isomers, some admixture with the corresponding The compounds of formula I include both active antibiotics and intermediates for their preparation. This is set out in greater detail hereinafter. It will be appreciated that salts of the compounds for use in medicine should be non toxic. Similarly where R¹ is a carboxyl blocking group in compounds to be used in medicine, this should represent a metabolically labile non toxic ester function. Thus, antibiotically active compounds according to the invention may be represented by the general formula Ia wherein R The compounds of formula Ia according to the invention and their non toxic salts and metabolically labile esters exhibit broad spectrum antibiotic activity both Compounds of formula Ia according to the invention have been found to exhibit high activity against strains including penicillinase producing strains of Gram positive bacteria such as Non toxic salt derivatives which may be formed by reaction of the carboxyl group present in the compounds of formula I include inorganic base salts such as alkali metal salts e.g. sodium and potassium salts and alkaline earth metal salts e.g. calcium salts amino acid salts e.g. lysine and arginine salts organic base salts e.g. procaine, phenylethyl benzylamine, dibenzylethylenediamine, ethanolamine, diethanolamine and N methylglucosamine salts . Other non toxic salt derivatives include acid addition salts, e.g. formed with hydrochloric, hydrobromic, sulphuric, nitric, phosphoric, formic and trifluoroacetic acids. The salts may also be in the form of resinates formed with, for example, a polystyrene resin or cross linked polystyrene divinylbenzene copolymer resin containing amino or quaternary amino groups or sulphonic acid groups, or with a resin containing carboxyl groups, e.g. a polyacrylic acid resin. Soluble base salts e.g. alkali metal salts such as the sodium salt of the compounds of formula I may be used in therapeutic applications because of the rapid distribution of such salts in the body upon administration. Where, however, insoluble salts of compounds I are desired in a particular application, e.g. for use in depot preparations, such salts may be formed in conventional manner, for example with appropriate organic amines. Non toxic metabolically labile ester derivatives which may be formed by esterification of the carboxyl group in the parent compound of formula I include acyloxyalkyl esters, e.g. lower alkanoyloxy methyl or ethyl esters such as acetoxy methyl or ethyl or pivaloyloxymethyl esters. In addition to the above ester derivatives, the present invention includes within its scope the compounds of formula I in the form of other physiologically acceptable equivalents, i.e. physiologically acceptable compounds, which like the metabolically labile esters, are converted These and other salt and ester derivatives such as the salts with toluene p sulphonic and methane sulphonic acids or the esters with t butyl or diphenyl methyl esterifying groups may be employed as intermediates in the preparation and or purification of the present compounds of formula I , for example in the processes described below. The compounds of the invention may be used for treating a variety of diseases caused by pathogenic bacteria in human beings and animals, such as septicaemia, respiratory tract infections, skin and soft tissue infections and urinary tract infections. According to another embodiment of the invention we provide a process for the preparation of compounds of general formula I as hereinbefore defined which comprises A acylating a compound of the formula II wherein R, R¹, B and the dotted line are as defined above which may be in the form of a salt, e.g. a betaine or an acid addition salt the anion of which may be derived, for example, from a mineral acid such as hydrochloric, hydrobromic, sulphuric, nitric or phosphoric acid or an organic acid such as methanesulphonic or toluene p sulphonic acid or an N silyl derivative thereof, with an acid of formula III wherein R² is as defined above or a salt thereof or with an acylating derivative thereof The above reactions i to v may be carried out in conventional manner as indicated below. In the above described process A , the starting material of formula II is preferably a compound wherein B is S and the dotted line represents a ceph 3 em compound. Acylating agents which may be employed in the preparation of compounds of formula I include acid halides, particularly acid chlorides or bromides. Such acylating agents may be prepared by reacting an acid III or a salt thereof with a halogenating agent e.g. phosphorus pentachloride, thionyl chloride or oxalyl chloride. Acylations employing acid halides may be effected in aqueous and non aqueous reaction media, conveniently at temperatures of from 50 to 50 C, preferably 40 to 30 C, if desired in the presence of an acid binding agent. Suitable reaction media include aqueous ketones such as aqueous acetone, aqueous alcohols such as aqueous ethanol, esters such as ethyl acetate, ethers such as tetrahydrofuran, halogenated hydrocarbons such as methylene chloride, amides such as dimethylacetamide, nitriles such as acetonitrile, or mixtures of two or more such solvents. Suitable acid binding agents include tertiary amines e.g. triethylamine or dimethylaniline , inorganic bases e.g. calcium carbonate or sodium bicarbonate , and oxiranes such as lower 1,2 alkylene oxides e.g. ethylene oxide or propylene oxide which bind hydrogen halide liberated in the acylation reaction. Acids of formula III may themselves be used as acylating agents in the preparation of compounds of formula I . Acylations employing acids III are desirably conducted in the presence of a condensing agent, for example a carbodiimide such as N,N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide or N ethyl N γ dimethylaminopropylcarbodiimide a carbonyl compound such as carbonyldiimidazole an isoxazolium salt such as N ethyl 5 phenylisoxazolium perchlorate or N ethoxycarbonyl 2 ethoxy 1,2 dihydroquinoline. Acylation may also be effected with other amide forming derivatives of acids of formula III such as, for example, an activated ester, a symmetrical anhydride or a mixed anhydride e.g. formed with pivalic acid or with a haloformate, such as a lower alkylhaloformate . Mixed anhydrides may also be formed with phosphorus acids for example phosphoric or phosphorous acids , sulphuric acid or aliphatic or aromatic sulphonic acids for example toluene p sulphonic acid . An activated ester may conveniently be formed Acylation reactions involving the free acids or their above mentioned amide forming derivatives are desirably effected in an anhydrous reaction medium, e.g. methylene chloride, tetrahydrofuran, dimethylformamide or acetonitrile. An alternative method of activation is, for example, by reacting an acid of formula III with a solution or suspension preformed by adding a carbonyl halide, in particular oxalyl chloride or phosgene, or a phosphoryl halide such as phosphorus oxychloride to a solvent such as a halogenated hydrocarbon, for example methylene chloride, containing a lower acyl tertiary amide such as N,N dimethylformamide. The activated form of the the acid of formula III may then be reacted with a 7 amino compound of formula II in a suitable solvent or mixture of solvents for example an alcohol such as an alkanol, e.g. ethanol or methanol halogenated hydrocarbons, e.g. dichloromethane esters, e.g. ethyl acetate ethers, e.g. dioxan or tetrahydrofuran ketones, e.g. acetone amides, e.g. dimethylacetamide acetonitrile water and mixtures thereof. The acylation reaction may conveniently be effected at temperatures of from 50 to 50 C, preferably 40 to 30 C, if desired in the presence of an acid binding agent, for example as described above e.g. triethylamine, dimethylaniline or sodium bicarbonate . If desired, the above acylation reactions may be carried out in the presence of a catalyst such as 4 dimethylaminopyridine. The acids of formula III and acylating agents corresponding thereto may, if desired, be prepared and employed in the form of their acid addition salts. Thus, for example, acid chlorides may conveniently be employed as their hydrochloride salts, and acid bromides as their hydrobromide salts. In process B above a wide variety of substituents CH₂X may serve as the group which may be converted into the group CH₂OCH₃. General methods suitable for the preparation of the ethers are discussed by Meerwein in Methoden der Organischen Chemie edited by Müller, Georg Thieme Verlag, Stuttgart, 1965, Vol. VI 3 pp 7 137 and in The Chemistry of the Ether Linkage edited by Patai, Interscience, London, 1967, especially at pp. 445 498 where methods involving the action of H , OH , Grignard reagents and peracids are discussed. Other methods involving the use of isoureas are discussed by Dabritz, Thus for example etherification may be carried out by reaction of the appropriate 3 hydroxymethyl compound with a diazo compound, e.g. diazomethane, having first protected the 4 carboxyl group. With diazo reagents it is desirable to use mild conditions. The rate of reaction of the diazo compound may be accelerated by the addition of a Lewis acid, e.g. boron trifluoride or aluminium trichloride. Reaction with diazo compounds may be effected in organic solvents such as halogenated hydrocarbons, e.g. dichloromethane or carbon tetrachloride, an ether, e.g. diethyl ether, tetrahydrofuran or dioxan, esters, e.g. ethyl acetate or light petroleum fractions and the reaction may be effected at 15 to 50 C, preferably at about 5 C. The etherification may also be carried out, for example, by reaction of the appropriate 3 halomethyl compound, for example the appropriate 3 bromomethyl sulphoxide, with methanol in the presence of a mercuric II salt such as mercuric perchlorate or, more conveniently, mercuric trifluoroacetate. The methanol is conveniently used alone as the reaction solvent or may be used together with other solvents such as halogenated hydrocarbons, e.g. dichloromethane ethers, e.g. dioxan nitriles, e.g. acetonitrile and sulphoxides, e.g. dimethylsulphoxide. The reaction may be effected at a temperature in the range of from 20 to 100 C, conveniently from 0 to 40 C. Other methods which may be applied for use in process B above include, for example, those described in British Patent Specification No. 2110688, Japanese Patent Specification No. 57192392 and J. Chem. Soc. Perkin I, 1983, pp 2281 2286. Starting materials for process B in which X represents a hydroxyl group can be prepared by deacetylation of the corresponding 3 acetoxymethyl compounds, for example by hydrolysis of the 3 acetoxymethyl compounds, e.g. as described for example in British Patent Specifications Nos. 1474519 and 1531212. A particularly convenient method for the deacetylation of a 3 acetoxymethyl compound is by the enzymatic hydrolysis described in our British Patent Specification No. 1,531,212 e.g. using an esterase derived from Starting materials for process B in which X represents a hydroxyl group or a halogen atom can be prepared by acylation of the corresponding 7 amino compound as discussed above for process A . In any of the foregoing reactions, the reaction product may be separated from the reaction mixture, which may contain, for example, unchanged cephalosporin starting material and other substances, by a variety of processes including recrystallisation, ionophoresis, column chromatography and use of ion exchangers for example by chromatography on ion exchange resins or macroreticular resins. A Δ² cephalosporin ester derivative obtained in accordance with the process of the invention may be converted into the corresponding desired Δ³ derivative by, for example, treatment of the Δ² ester with a base, such as pyridine or triethylamine. A ceph 2 em reaction product may also be oxidised to yield the corresponding ceph 3 em 1 oxide, for example by reaction with a peracid, e.g. peracetic or Where a compound is obtained in which B is SO this may be converted into the corresponding sulphide by, for example, reduction of the corresponding acyloxysulphonium or alkoxysulphonium salt prepared Metabolically labile ester derivatives of the compounds of formula I may be prepared by reacting a compound of formula I or a salt or protected derivative thereof with the appropriate esterifying agent such as an acyloxyalkyl halide e.g. iodide conveniently in an inert organic solvent such as dimethylformamide or acetone, followed, where necessary, by removal of any protecting groups. Base salts of the compounds of formula I may be formed by reacting an acid of formula I with an appropriate base. Thus, for example, sodium or potassium salts may be prepared using the respective 2 ethylhexanoate or hydrogen carbonate salt. Acid addition salts may be prepared by reacting a compound of formula I or a metabolically labile ester derivative thereof with the appropriate acid. Where a compound of formula I is obtained as a mixture of isomers, the For use as starting materials for the preparation of compounds of general formula I according to the invention, compounds of general formula III and acid halides and anhydrides corresponding thereto in their The starting materials of formula II may also be prepared in conventional manner, for example, by nucleophilic displacement of the corresponding 3 acetoxymethyl compound with the appropriate nucleophile, e.g. as described in British Patent Specification No. 1028563, or by the method described in British Patent Specification No. 2052490A. A further method for the preparation of the starting materials for formula II comprises deprotecting a corresponding protected 7β amino compound in conventional manner, e.g. using PC1₅. Compounds of formula II may also be prepared by the method of British Patent Specification No. 1600735. Acids of formula III and their derivatives are themselves novel compounds and form a further feature of the present invention. They may be prepared by etherification of a compound of formula VI wherein R² is as hereinbefore defined and R⁶ represents hydrogen or a carboxyl blocking group or a salt thereof, by selective reaction with a compound of general formula VII Acids of formula III may also be prepared by reaction of a compound of formula VIII wherein R² and R⁶ are as hereinbefore defined with a compound of formula IX The acids of formula III may be converted into the corresponding acid halides and anhydrides and acid addition salts by conventional methods, for example as described hereinabove. It should be appreciated that in some of the above transformations it may be necessary to protect any sensitive groups in the molecule of the compound in question to avoid undesirable side reactions. Examples of suitable protecting groups are given in Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis by Theodora W. Greene John Wiley and Sons, 1981 . For example, during any of the reaction sequences referred to above it may be necessary to protect the NH₂ group of the aminothiazolyl moiety, for example by tritylation, acylation e.g. chloroacetylation or formylation , protonation or other conventional method. The protecting group may thereafter be removed in any convenient way which does not cause breakdown of the desired compound, e.g. in the case of a trityl group by using an optionally halogenated carboxylic acid, e.g. acetic acid, formic acid, chloroacetic acid or trifluoroacetic acid or using a mineral acid, e.g. hydrochloric acid or mixtures of such acids, preferably in the presence of a protic solvent such as water, or, in the case of a chloroacetyl group, by treatment with thiourea. Carboxyl blocking groups used in the preparation of compounds of formula I or in the preparation of necessary starting materials are desirably groups which may readily be split off at a suitable stage in the reaction sequence, conveniently at the last stage. It may, however, be convenient in some instances to employ non toxic metabolically labile carboxyl blocking groups such as acyloxy methyl or ethyl groups e.g. acetoxy methyl or ethyl or pivaloyloxymethyl and retain these in the final product to give an appropriate ester derivative of a compound of formula I . Suitable carboxyl blocking groups are well known in the art, a list of representative blocked carboxyl groups being included in British Patent No. 1399086. Preferred blocked carboxyl groups include aryl lower alkoxycarbonyl groups such as The antibiotic compounds of the invention may be formulated for administration in any convenient way, by analogy with other antibiotics and the invention therefore includes within its scope pharmaceutical compositions comprising an antibiotic compound in accordance with the invention adapted for use in human or veterinary medicine. Such compositions may be presented for use in conventional manner with the aid of any necessary pharmaceutical carriers or excipients. The antibiotic compounds according to the invention may, for example, be formulated for injection and may be presented in unit dose form, in ampoules, or in multi dose containers, if necessary with an added preservative. The compositions may also take such forms as suspensions, solutions, or emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles, and may contain formulatory agents such as suspending, stabilising and or dispersing agents. Alternatively the active ingredient may be in powder form for reconstitution with a suitable vehicle, e.g. sterile, pyrogen free water, before use. If desired, such powder formulations may contain an appropriate non toxic base in order to improve the water solubility of the active ingredient and or to ensure that when the powder is reconstituted with water, the pH of the resulting aqueous formulation is physiologically acceptable. Alternatively the base may be present in the water with which the powder is reconstituted. The base may be, for example, an inorganic base such as sodium carbonate, sodium bicarbonate or sodium acetate, or an organic base such as lysine or lysine acetate. The antibiotic compounds may also, be formulated as suppositories e.g. containing conventional suppository bases such as cocoa butter or other glycerides. Compositions for veterinary medicine may, for example, be formulated as intramammary preparations in either long acting or quick release bases. The compositions may contain from 0.1 upwards, e.g. 0.1 99 of the active material, depending on the method of administration. When the compositions comprise dosage units, each unit will preferably contain 100 3000 mg of the active ingredient e.g. 200 2000 mg . The daily dosage for adult human treatment will preferably range from 200 to 12000 mg e.g. 1000 9000 mg per day, depending The antibiotic compounds according to the invention may be administered in combination with other therapeutic agents such as antibiotics, for example penicillins or other cephalosporins. The following Examples and Preparations illustrate the invention. All temperatures are in C DMSO is dimethylsulphoxide EtOH is ethanol DMF is N,N dimethylformamide. Kieselgel 60 is silica gel manufactured by E. Merck and Co. of Darmstadt, West Germany Sorbsil U30 is silica gel manufactured by Joseph Crosfield and Son of Warrington, Cheshire, England. Kieselgel and Sorbsil are registered Trade Marks . Ethyl Z 2 hydroxyimino 2 2 triphenylmethylaminothiazol 4 yl acetate, hydrochloride salt 8.7g was stirred with potassium carbonate 15.35g in dimethyl sulphoxide 30ml under nitrogen at 21 . Bromofluoromethane λ and 259nm ν Intermediate 1 7.8g was stirred under reflux with sodium hydroxide 0.83g in ethanol 50ml and water 10ml for 15 minutes. The mixture was cooled and the crystalline precipitate was collected by filtration and washed with ethanol and ether and dried. This solid was partitioned between methylene chloride 80ml and water 40ml with vigorous stirring and 88 orthophosphoric acid 2ml was added. Solid remained and this was collected by filtration. This solid was suspended in tetrahydrofuran 75ml and 2M hydrochloric acid 8ml was added when a solution formed. Evaporation reduced the volume of solution by one half and methylene chloride 50ml was added. The aqueous layer was extracted with more methylene chloride and the combined organic layers were washed with water, dried with magnesium sulphate and evaporated to a solid, the 254.5nm and 260nm τ d₆DMSO 1.02 s NH , 2.64 s phenyl protons , 2.91 s thiazole 5 H , and 4.29 d, J 56Hz CH₂F . Oxalyl chloride 0.37ml was added to a solution of N,N dimethylformamide 0.38ml in methylene chloride 10ml at 20 with stirring under nitrogen and the mixture was stirred with ice water cooling for ten minutes. The mixture was recooled to 20 and Intermediate 2 1.85g was added. The solution was stirred with ice water cooling for ten minutes before recooling to 20 . A slurry of diphenylmethyl 6R,7R 7 amino 3 carbamoyloxymethylceph 3 em 4 carboxylate 1.76g in methylene chloride 10ml containing N,N dimethylaniline 1.26ml was added and the solution was allowed to warm to 21 over 30 minutes. The solution was washed with dilute hydrochloric acid and water twice, each time back extracting with methylene chloride. The combined organic solutions were dried with magnesium sulphate and evaporated to dryness. The residue was redissolved in methylene chloride and filtered through Sorbsil U30 100g in ethyl acetate 10 to 60 in petroleum ether bpt 40 60 . Combination of appropriate fractions and evaporation gave the The product of stage a 1.79g was dissolved in anisole 4ml and trifluoroacetic acid 16ml was added. After 55 minutes at 21 , water 2ml was added. After a further five minutes, the solution was diluted with diisopropyl ether 200ml and the precipitate was collected by filtration, washed with diisopropyl ether and dried to give the The 252 nm λ