# ORAL VACCINES

## Claims
Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragsstaaten BE, CH, DE, FR, IT, LI, LU, NL, SE

## Description
A major goal of biomedical research is to provide protection against viral disease through immunization. One approach has been to use killed vaccines. However, large quantities of material are required for killed vaccine in order to retain sufficient antigenic mass. In addition, killed vaccines are often contaminated with undesirable products during their preparation. Heterologous live vaccines, using appropriately engineered adenovirus, which is itself a vaccine, Chanock, R.M. et al., JAMA, Presently marketed adenovaccine comprises live, infectious adenoviruses in an enteric coated dosage form. Upon administration to the patient to be vaccinated, the virus is carried past the upper respiratory system where disease producing infection is thought to occur , and is released in the intestine. In the intestine, the virus reproduces in the gut wall, where although it is not capable of causing adenoviral disease, it nevertheless induces the formation of adenovirus antibodies, thus conferring immunity to adenoviral disease. In our invention, live, infectious adenovirus which has been engineered to contain genes coding for antigens produced by other disease causing organisms are administered in an enteric coated dosage form. Upon release in the intestine the virus will reproduce in the gut wall, inducing the formation of antibodies or inducing cell mediated immunity to both adenovirus and the other disease causing organism. By live virus is meant, in contradistinction to killed virus, a virus which is, either by itself or in conjunction with additional genetic material, capable of producing identical progeny. By infectious is meant having the capability to deliver the viral genome into cells. Approximately 200,000 persons in the United States are infected each year with Hepatitis B virus. In addition, there is a strong correlation between hepatitis B infection and liver cancer. The presently marketed vaccines against hepatitis B are injectable products manufactured from the blood plasma of healthy carriers by a lengthy process involving several discrete steps. There are two major hepatitis B viral antigens the surface antigen HB Several groups have employed recombinant DNA techniques to synthesize the HB Rotaviruses are a major cause of acute gastroenteritis in infants. These viruses possess a genome of eleven double stranded RNA segments enclosed in a capsid. The capsid contains an inner and outer shell. One of the outer shell proteins, VP7, is a glycoprotein that reacts with serotype specific neutralizing antibodies Kalica, A.R. et al., Virology, Adenoviruses contain a linear duplex DNA molecule m.w. 20 x 10⁶ 25 x 10⁶ that codes for 20 30 polypeptides. Many of these are incorporated into the viral particle which is morphologically complex and has a sophisticated assembly process. Previously SV40 T antigen has been expressed using an adenovirus recombinant Solnick, D.Cell, and Sharp,P.A.,Nucleic Acids Research, WO A 8302393 Animal Vaccine Research Corp. discloses viruses eg. adenoviruses containing protein fragments for example, antigenic functions. The viral surface protein is modified to contain within its structure a portion having the foreign antigemic function. The invention concerns a method for producing antibodies or cell mediated immunity to an infectious organism in a warm blooded animal which comprises orally administering to said warm blooded animal, in an enteric coated dosage form, live recombinant adenoviruses containing the gene coding for the antigen corresponding to said antibodies or inducing said cell mediated immunity. In particular, the invention concerns a method for producing antibodies to hepatitis B virus or rotavirus in a warm blooded animal which comprises orally administering to said warm blooded animal live recombinant adenoviruses containing the gene coding for, respectively, a hepatitis B antigen or a rotavirus antigen. In one aspect the invention provides a vaccine for producing antibodies or cell mediated immunity to an infectious organism in warm blooded animals comprising live recombinant human adenoviruses of type 3, 4, 5 or 7 which contain the gene coding for the antigen which corresponds to said antibodies or induces said cell mediated immunity, said gene coding being present in the viral genome in the E3 region, in the E4 region or at the right hand end of the genome between the TATA box of the E4 promoter and the inverted terminal repeat, said vaccine being formulated in an enteric coated dosage form. Particularly provided is a vaccine for producing antibodies to hepatitis B or rotavirus in warm blooded animals, comprising live recombinant adenoviruses which contain the gene coding for, respectively, a hepatitis B antigen or a rotavirus antigen, said vaccine being formulated in an enteric coated dosage form. The invention also provides a method of preparing a vaccine for producing antibodies or cell mediated immunity to an infectious organism in warm blooded animals which comprises producing live recombinant human adenoviruses of type 3, 4, 5 or 7, by inserting into adenoviruses the gene coding for the antigen which corresponds to said antibodies or induces said cell mediated immunity, said gene coding being present in the viral genome in the E3 region, in the E4 region or at the right hand end of the genome between the TATA box of the E4 promoter and the inverted terminal repeat, and placing the live recombinant adenoviruses in an enteric coated dosage form. The invention particularly relates to the use in a vaccine of a recombinant adenovirus which contains a gene coding for an antigen produced by a disease causing organism said recombinant adenovirus being of type 4, 5, or 7 the gene codes being for hepatitis B surface antigen or rotavirus outer shell protein and the gene being located at deleted early region 3. In the following Detailed Description of the Invention mention is made of the gene coding being in the early region 1. This is for reference purposes only. According to the invention the gene coding is in the E3 region, in the E4 region or at the right hand end of the genome between the TATA box of the E4 promoter and the inverted terminal repeat Instead of the adenoviral major late Promoter, any other suitable eukaryotic promoter can be used, such as human metallothionein promoter or the human dihydrofolate reductase promoter. In addition, in our examples, we have used adenovirus type 5 DNA as vector for foreign gene expression however, other adenovirus types can be used as vector, and particularly useful are types 3, 4 and 7 that are presently in use as vaccines. Also, we describe the use of processing and polyadenylation signals from SV40 DNA however, any suitable processing and polyadenylation signals may be used. These may come from adenoviral DNA, particularly types 3, 4 and 7. In practising the method of this invention, where the foreign gene is inserted in deleted early region 3 of the adenovirus, the recombinant virus remains infective, and the vaccination requires nothing more than delivery of the recombinant virus to the gut. On the other hand, early region 1 is essential to adenovirus infectivity. Therefore, if the foreign gene is inserted in deleted early region 1, helper virus must be co administered. This helper virus is conveniently unmodified, infectious adenovirus. Also, the helper virus can itself be a defective virus with a deletion which can be complemented by the recombinant virus. In this fashion virus growth and foreign antigen production would be elicited only in cells infected with both viruses. This defective helper can be of the same subtype as, or of different subtype to, the recombinant virus. If of differing subtype e.g. if recombinant virus was Ad4 subtype and the defective virus of Ad7 subtype , formation of wild type virus through recombination should be minimized. Propagation of virus for vaccine production can be accomplished either through co cultivation of both viruses in human diploid fibroblasts or cultivation of viruses separately in cell lines known to complement each of the defects. In addition to the E1 and E3 regions, there are several other regions of the viral genome where the cassette containing promoter, tripartite leader, foreign gene, and processing and polyadenylation signals may be inserted. This include a region between E1a and E1b, regions at the right end of the genome, and in the E4 region. Other insertion points are the extreme right end of the genome. At the right end the position will be between the 116 bp inverted terminal repeat and the TATA box of the E4 promoter. In Ad2 there is an Mbo II site at 99.3 map units. This is 191 bp from the extreme right end of the viral DNA. In Ad5 there is a Tha1 FnU4DII site 240 bp from the right end of the genome. This region is between the ITR and upstream of the E4 TATA box. Again, if necessary, insertion will be made into an E3 deletion adenovirus to accommodate the extra DNA. In each case these same regions can be used as insertion points for the cassette of the adenovirus major late promoter, adenovirus tripartite leader, foreign gene and procesing and polyadenylation signals in adenovirus type 4 and type 7 strains that are used for the presently marketed adenovirus vaccines. Adenovirus of types 4 or 7 are preferred for use in the invention since these are the types presently employed in commercial adenovirus vaccines. Although specific reference has been made to vaccines producing antibodies to hepatitis B and rotavirus, our invention provides oral vaccines against any infectious agent containing an antigen to which a warm blooded animal will produce antibodies or cell mediated immunity, and which antigen is coded for by a gene composed of up to about 3000 base pairs. Thus, for example, included within the scope of the invention are immunization against such diseases as influenza, parainfluenza, respiratory synctial virus disease, hepatitis A, acquired immunodeficiency syndrome AIDS , cholera,