# A RINSING SOLUTION INTENDED PRIMARILY TO PREVENT THE OCCURRENCE OF ORAL CORROSION IN DENTAL ALLOYS

## Claims
Spüllösung zur Verhinderung der Korrosion von Dentallegierungen im Mund mit einem Phosphationendonator, wobei der Phosphationendonator mit von der Dentallegierung ausgeschiedenen Metallionen eine Schutzschicht aus schwerlöslichen Metallphosphaten bildet und so eine weitere Ausscheidung von Metallionen an der Oberfläche der Dentallegierung verhindert, dadurch gekennzeichnet, daß der Phosphationendonator eine stabilisierte übersättigte Pufferlösung aufweist und die Pufferlösung mindestens 5 1000 mM l NaH₂PO₄ und 5 1000 mM l Na₂HPO₄ und 0,5 20 mM l NaPO₃ ₆ als Stabilisator enthält.

## Description
The present invention relates to a rinsing solution intended primarily to prevent the occurrence of oral corrosion in dental alloys, wherein said solution contains a phosphate ion donator which forms a protective layer of sparingly soluble metal phosphates with the metal ions precipitated from the dental alloys, along the exposed surfaces, thus preventing further metal precipitation. A vast number of patients who have received restorative dental treatment complain of a metallic taste, a burning sensation on the tongue, irritation of the mucous membrane, specific or diffuse pains, headaches, etc. Although no epidemiological examination has been carried out, for many of these patients it is likely that the problems are associated with the temporomandibular joint or periodontitis. For other patients the aetiology of the symptoms cannot be related to the condition ascertained in the oral cavity. However, there is still a large group in which the following common features are to be found debilitated general condition, poor dietary habits, low rate of saliva secretion, low buffer capacity, low pH value in the saliva, poor oral hygiene and extensive restorative dentistry. The above symptoms experienced by these patients are said to be caused by corrosion products from dental alloys. It has been ascertained that dental alloys corrode in the oral cavity and that the corrosion products can cause toxic reactions in tissues in their proximity or in other organs in the human body. Upon closer examination it emerged that certain components do exist in saliva, which exert an inhibiting effect on dental alloys, e.g. phosphate buffer, bicarbonate buffer, polyphosphates and certain organic components. Furthermore, a positive synergism was ascertained if two or more of these components were present in the same solution. The effect has also been found to be augmented by certain ions such as calcium and zinc. For patients with low saliva secretion levels, poor buffering ability in the saliva or with low pH value in the oral cavity, however, the inhibiting effect is insufficient. From ELECTROCHIMICA ACTA, vol. 25 no.6, 1980 pages 851 856 is known that a buffer solution containing phosphate may prevent oral corrosion of a dental alloy. In order to find out more about the corrosion process of dental alloys, conventional amalgams have been tested in some electrolytes normally occurring in the oral cavity, such as bacteria metabolites, e.g. acetic acid, formic acid, lactic acid, ammonia , common salt, sodium sulphide, etc. As is kown, these electrolytes are factors which stimulate the corrosion process. In conventional amalgam alloys containing zinc it has been found that, being the most electro negative element in the alloy, zinc is dissolved out of the amalgam first. When the zinc has been dissolved out the gamma₂ phase Sn Hg will be attacked. The tin in the gamma₂ phase Sn Hg then forms corrosion products which are difficult to dissolve and will be precipitated on the surface of the amalgam and the quick silver will react with the gamma phase Ag₃Sn , thus forming new gamma₁ Ag Hg and gamma₂ Sn Hg phases. Once the zinc has been dissolved out, the rest of the alloy will be attacked. Long term studies with non gamma₂ amalgams or amalgams containing a high percentage of copper have also been performed in the above mentioned electrolytes. If such alloys contain zinc, the zinc will be dissolved out first in these amalgams also. In the next stage the copper is attacked and forms soluble corrosion products in most of the electrolytes. There is, for instance, great affinity between copper and ammonia, but also between copper and organic acids. Surprisingly it has now proved possible by means of the present invention to substantially eliminate the above mentioned drawbacks of ordinary dental amalgams. According to the invention, this is achieved by means of the rinsing solution described in the introduction, containing a phosphate ion donator comprising a stabilized supersaturated buffer solution consisting of at least 5 1000 mM l NaH₂PO₄ and 5 1000 mM l Na₂HPO₄ and 0,5 20 mM l NaPO₃ ₆ as a stabilizer. The rinsing solution should preferably be used when cavities are being filled with amalgam, and for patients with a low level of saliva secretion, poor buffer ability in their saliva or low pH value in the oral cavity, the rinsing solution should be used regularly even though a certain long term effect has been noted. The invention can be used for all dental alloys known hitherto. Although the inhibiting effect on the corrosion process of the dental amalgam achieved according to the invention has not yet fully expounded, it is assumed that the phosphate ion donator exerts an inhibiting effect by, in contact with primarily zinc, forming a protective layer of sparingly soluble zinc phosphates on the exposed surfaces of the amalgam filling, which in turn protects the amalgam filling from further metal precipitation. Similarly, the phosphate ion donator according to the invention forms sparingly soluble copper phosphates when in contact with copper. The rinsing solution is supersaturated and acidferous. The solution is provided to the surface of the dental alloy to activate said surface and to precipitate the protective layer under the elevated temperature. The rinsing solution contains a buffer solution which comprises 5 1000 mM l NaH₂PO₄ together with 5 1000 mM l Na₂HPO₄. To activate a stabilized solution the buffer solution can be comprised of A preferred durable solution may be comprised of The inhibiting effect established according to the invention is thus achieved by the phosphate ion donator forming complex phosphate compounds as follows Zinc and copper are easily dissolved out of the amalgam and are only attacked in corrosive electrolytes. Particularly in the presence of water, oxygen and phosphate solutions, permanent phosphate films are formed consisting of Zn₃ PO₃ ₂ and Cu₃ PO₄ ₂. In the case of tin and tin alloys the inhibiting effect has been found to be achieved by a layer of phosphate on the surface consisting of tin, oxygen and phosphate atoms which are strongly bound with covalent bonds. These phosphate layers prevent the release of tin ions and are the cause of an improvement in the alloy. This improvement is expressed in a positive shift of the potential. The proposed addition of NaPO₃ ₆ exerts an inhibiting effect on the corrosion process and on the precipitation of carbonates in the pH range normally prevailing in the oral cavity. Thus, in this pH range the polyphosphate is hydrolyzed and precipitates out in the form of orthophosphate. Furthermore, the addition of CaCl₂ and ZnCl₂ increases the adhesion properties of the solutions and its ability to form sparingly soluble compounds on the metal surfaces. At a pH value of about 5,5 and lower the precipitation of quick silver is prevented by mercury carbonates being formed with the proposed additive NaHCO₃. The invention will be described more fully in the following with reference to the example below. Three amalgam alloys of different types and systems were selected, having the following compositions the percentages are by weight Four test bodies of each alloy were manufactured in known manner by mixing the metal powder with quick silver. These test bodies were immersed in glass jars containing 50 ml of an electrolyte consisting of The electrolyte was exchanged once a month over a three month period and was analyzed for the occurrence of silver, copper, zinc, quick silver and tin. The results are given in the following tables. These experiments were repeated with the same electrolyte to which 0,5 by weight NaCl had been added. The results obtained did not differ from those given below. Satisfactory experiments have also been performed using up to 1000 mM l of NaH₂PO₄ and of Na₂HPO₄. the precipitation is stated in mg l the precipitation is stated in mg l the precipitation is stated in mg l