# Metal recovery.

## Abstract
A relatively solid, stable biomass reaction product is provided produced from microorganisms having metal uptake properties when contacted by an aqueous solution containing metal cations. The biomass reaction product is produced by treating cells thereof with a caustic solution, whereby the biomass reaction product after drying is characterized in the particulate state of having substantially enhanced uptake of metal cations from aqueous solutions as compared to the metal uptake property of the microorgan ism before treatment.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. The process for treating an aqueous solution containing at least one heavy metal cation to remove said cation and recover said metal which comprises contacting said solution with a small amount of a biomass comprising cells of the bacterium, Bacillus subtilis, which have been treated with a base from the group consisting of sodium hydroxide and potassium hydroxide to sorb said cation into said biomass and thereafter separating the resulting metal containing biomass from said solution. 2. The process in accordance with claim 1, wherein said biomass is treated with a hot, dilute caustic solution prior to said contact. 3. The process in accordance with claim 1, wherein said metal containing solution is a waste water solution containing. up to about two grams per liter of said metal. 4. The process in accordance with claim 1, wherein said heavy metal is selected from the group consisting of silver, gold and the platinum group metals. 5. The process in accordance with claim 1, wherein the metal containing biomass is treated galvanically to recover said metal. 6. The process in accordance with claim 1, wherein said metal containing biomass is treated pyrolytically to recover said metal. 7. The process in accordance with claim 1, wherein said aqueous solution is a wastewater stream, said treated biomass is added to and mixed with said stream and said metal containing biomass is removed from said stream by flocculation and settling. 8. The process for treating an aqueous solution containing at least one heavy metal cation to remove said cation and recover said metal which comprises passing said solution through a column of granular biomass comprising cells of the bacterium Bacillus subtilis which have been treated with a base from the group consisting of sodium hydroxide and potassium hydroxide, dried to a hard, grindable body and ground to granular form. 9. The process in accordance with claim 8, wherein said granular biomass is configured in a packed column suitable for upflqw operation. 10. The process in accordance with claim 8, wherein said granular biomass is configured in a packed column suitable for downflow operation. 11. The process in accordance with claim 8, wherein said granular biomass is employed in an unrestrained, upflow column allowing fluidization of said granular biomass. 12,The prpcessin accordance with claim 8, wherein said grindable body of treated biomass is ground to provide a variety of particle sizes, said ground treated biomass is employed in an upflow column wherein said aqueous solution is passed at a rate causing stratification of said biomass with larger biomass particles in the lower portion of said column and finer biomass particles in the upper portions of said column whereby the smaller and more active biomass particles contact said solution after the bulk of said cation has been removed therefrom by said larger particles. 13. The process in accordance with claim 8, wherein said column is operated as a pulsed bed of said biomass, with said aqueous solution moving upwardly in said column, with fresh treated biomass introduced position wise at a point toward the top of said column while metal laden biomass is removed from a point toward the bottom of said column. 14. The process in accordance with claim 13, wherein the respective volumes of said fresh biomass portions and said metal laden biomass portions are of substantially the same volume. 15. The process in accordance with claim 14, wherein said metal laden biomass portions are removed and said fresh biomass portions are introduced at substantially the same time. 16. The process for treating an aqueous solution containing at least one heavy metal cation to remove said cation and recover said metal which comprises contacting said solution with a small amount of a biomass comprising polymeric cell wall material derived from a Gram positive bacterium having mucopeptide strands cross linked with transpeptide bonds which have been treated with a base from the group consisting of sodium hydroxide and potassium hydroxide to sorb said cation into said biomass and thereafter separating the resulting metal containing biomass from said solution. 17. A process for enhancing the metal uptake properties of Bacillus subtilis from aqueous solutions containing metal cations, which comprises, treating cells of said Bacillus subtilis with a caustic solution and thereby form a biomass reaction product thereof, and thereafter recovering and drying said treated biomass to form a relatively solid, stable product thereof, said biomass reaction product in the particulate state being characterized by substantially enhanced metal uptake as compared to the metal uptake of the Bacillus subtilis in the untreated stat . 18. The process of claim 17, wherein the caustic solution is selected from the group consisting of NaOH andKOH, and wherein said treatment in the solution is carried out at a temperature of about 500C to about l000C. 19. A biomass reaction product produced from Bacillus subtilis having metal uptake properties when contacted by an aqueous solution containing metal cations, said biomass reaction product having been produced by treating cells of said Bacillus subtilis with a caustic solution, said biomass reaction product after washing and drying being relatively solid and being characterized in the particulate state in aqueous solutions of having substantially enhanced uptake of metal cations as compared to the metal uptake properties of said Bacillus subtilis before treatment. 20. The biomass reaction product of claim 19, said product having been produced by caustic treatment in a solution selected from the group consisting of NaOH and KOH at a temperature of about 500C to about l000C. 21. A process for enhancing the metal uptake properties of a Bacillus species from aqueous solutions containing metal cations, which comprises, treating cells of a Bacillus species having metal uptake properties with a caustic solution and thereby form a biomass reaction product thereof, and thereafter recovering and drying said treated biomass to form a relatively solid stable product thereof, said biomass reaction product in the particulate state being characterized in aqueous solutions by substantially enhanced metal uptake as compared to the metal uptake of the Bacillus species in the untreated state. 22. The process of claim 21, wherein the caustic solution is selected from the group consisting of NaOH andKOH and wherein said treatment in the solution is carried out at a temperature ranging from about 500C to about l000C. 23. A biomass reaction product produced from a Bacillus species having metal uptake properties when contacted by an aqueous solution containing metal cations, said biomass reaction product having been produced by treating cells of said Bacillus species with a caustic solution, said biomass reaction product after drying being relatively solid and stable and characteri ed in the particulate state of having substantially enhanced uptake of metal cations from aqueous solutions as compared to the metal uptake properties of said Bacillus species before treatment. 24. The biomass reaction product of claim 23, said product having been produced by caustic treatment in a solution selected from the group consisting of NaOH and KOH at a temperature ranging from about 500C to about 1000C. 25. A process for enhancing the metal uptake properties of a Gram positive bacterium from aqueous solutions containing metal cations, which comprises, selecting a Gram positive bacterium having mucopeptide strands cross linked with transpeptide bonds and having metal uptake properties, and which when treated with a caustic solution forms a biomass reaction product, treating cells of said Gram positive bacterium with said caustic solution and thereby form said biomass reaction product, and thereafter recovering and drying said treated biomass to provide a relatively solid, stable product thereof, said biomass reaction product in the particulate state being characterized by substantially enhanced metal uptake properties as compared to the metal uptake properties of the Gram positive bacterium before said treatment. 26. The process of claim 25 wherein the caustic solution is selected from the group consisting of NaOH and KOH, and wherein the treatment in the solution is carried out at a temperature of about 500C to about l000C. 27. A biomass reaction product produced from aGram positive bacterium having mucopeptide strands cross linked with transpeptide bonds and having metal uptake properties when contacted by an aqueous solution containing metal cations, said biomass reaction product having been produced by treating cells of said Gram positive bacterium with a caustic solution, said biomass reaction product after drying being relatively solid and stable and characterized in the particulate state of having substantially enhanced uptake of metal cations from aqueous solutions as compared to the metal uptake properties of said Gram positive bacterium before treatment. 28. The biomass reaction product of claim 27, said product having been produced by caustic treatment in a solution selected from the group consisting of NaOH and KOH at a temperature of about 500C to about 1000C. 29. A process for enhancing the metal uptake properties of a bacterium from aqueous solutions containing metal cations, which comprises, selecting a bacterium having metal uptake properties which when treated with a caustic solution forms a biomass reaction product, treating cells of said bacterium with said caustic solution and thereby form said biomass reaction product, and thereafter recovering and drying said treated biomass to provide a rei I i li , stmale product thereof, said biomass reaction product in the particulate state being characterized by substantially enhanced metal uptake properties as compared to the metal uptake properties of the bacterium before said treatment. 30. The process of claim 29, wherein the caustic solution is selected from the group consisting of NaOH and KOH, and wherein the treatment in the solution is carried out at a temperature ranging from about,50 c to about lD0 C. 31. A biomass reaction product produced from a bacterium having metal uptake properties when contacted by an aqueous solution containing metal cations, said biomass reaction product having been produced by treating cells of said bacterium with a caustic solution, said biomass reaction product after drying being relative solid and stable and characterized in the particulate state of having substantially enhanced uptake of metal cations from aqueous solutions as compared to the metal uptake properties of said bacterium before treatment. 32. The biomass reaction product of claim 31, said product having been produced by caustic treatment in a solution selected from the group consisting of NaOH and KOH at a temperature of about 500C to about 1000C. 33. A process for enhancing the metal uptake properties of microorganisms from aqueous solutions containing metal cations, which comprises, selecting a microorganism having a cell wall structure and having metal uptake properties and which when treated with a caustic solution forms a biomass reaction product, treating cells of saidmicroorganism with said caustic solution and thereby form said biomass reaction product, and thereafter recovering and drying said treated biomass to provide a relatively solid, stable product thereof, said biomass reaction product in the particulate state being characterized by substantially enhanced metal uptake properties as compared to the metal uptake properties of the microorganism before said treatment. 34. The process of claim 33, wherein the caustic solution is selected from the group consisting of NaOH andKOH, and wherein the treatment in the solution is carried out at a temperature ranging from about 500C to about 1000C. 35. A biomass reaction product produced from a microorganism having a cell wall structure and having metal uptake properties when contacted by an aqueous solution containing metal cations, said biomass reaction product having been produced by treating cells of said microorganism with a caustic solution said biomass reaction product after drying being relative solid and stable and chwaracterized in the particulate state of having substantially enhanced uptake of metal cations from aqueous solutions as compared to the metal uptake properties of said microorganism before teatment. 36. The biomass reaction product of claim 35, said product having been produced by caustic treatment in a solution selected from the group consisting of NaOH and KOH at a temperature of about 500C to about 1000C. 37. A biomass reaction product having enhanced metal uptake properties, said biomass reaction product consisting essentially of a causticized non living microorganism. 38. A non living biomass reaction product derived from a living microorganism having cell walls, said biomass reaction product being in the form of a solid, particulate material and having improved and enhanced metal uptake properties compared to the metal uptake properties of the microorganism itself. 39. A process for removing metal cations from aqueous solutions which comprises, providing a microorganism derived biomass reaction product in the form of a solid, stable particulate material having substantially enhanced capacity for removing metal cations from aqueous solutions, forming a fluidized bed of said particulate biomass reaction product in an aqueous solution containing said metal cations, moving said aqueous solution countercurrently through said fluidized bed to effect loading of metal cations on at least a portion of said particulate biomass reaction product, whereby loaded particles thereof segregate by classification to a lower part of said fluid bed, and subsequently removing said segregated loaded particles for the recovery of metal therefrom.

## Description
METAL RECOVERY e The present invention is directed to the treatment of aqueous solutions containing cations of heavy metals with a biomass reaction product derived from a microorganism, such as Bacillus subtilis, selective to the removal of heavy metals from solution. The invention is also directed to a process of enhancing metal uptake properties of microorganisms and to relatively stable biomass products produced by said process having enhanced metal uptake properties.Background Of The Invention And The Prior Art Waste waters from many industrial processes, such as metal finishing, which contain a variety of metal ions some of which are toxic and some of which are valuable, are generated in large quantities. These liquids cannot be released into streams or sewers without causing environmental damage. Furthermore, such release would, in many cases, represent a violation of stringent environmental regulations. Treatment of such waters to remove the metal ions is required. Existing processes for treating such waste waters suffer from many disadvantages, among which are included high cost, production of metal containing sludges which are difficult to treat for metal recovery and hence are dumped in landfills, complex technology, etc.The use of caustic precipitation, sulfide precipitation, electrolysis, evaporation, reverse osmosis, ion exchange, etc., are all known and suffer from one or more difficulty in terms of energy requirement, limited applicability, low absorption capacity, requirement for precise control, etc. Attempts to use biomass of living microbes for metal recovery are reported in U.S. Patents Nos. 4407954 and 4293333. T.J. Beveridge, et al. have reported that cell walls of B. subtilis will take up metals from solution J.Bacteriol, 1976, 127 3 , 1502 18 . However, living microbes must be cultured, an expensive, capital intensive process, and are subject to contamination by other microbes and inhibition by high metal concentrations or extremes of pH and other toxic components of waste streams. They are also subject to putrefaction. U.S. Patents Nos. 4293334 and 4320093 disclose use of nonliving biomass derived from microbes but these processes display limited metal sorption or uptake capacity.Brief Description Of The Invention One embodiment of the invention contemplates the recovery of the metal present in cationic form in aqueous streams by using a relatively insoluble solid biomass product in particulate form derived chemically from microorganisms characterized by cell wall structures, a preferred microorganism being the bacterium, Bacillus subtilis. The sorption or metal uptake capacity for metal ions is dramatically improved by treating the microorganism with a caustic solution which converts it to a substantially solid biomass reaction product. The term solid also includes a reaction product having a porous structure. The term caustic is meant to cover alkaline solutions having a relatively high intrinsic pH, e.g., in excess of 9, preferably in excess of 10 or 11, prior to reaction with the microorganism, the alkaline solution being one which when reacted with a selected microorganism produces a relatively solid biomass reaction product having enhanced metal uptake capacity compared to the metal uptake properties of the microorganism prior to the caustic treatment. The term caustic is defined in Webster s Collegiate Dictionary as capable of destroying or eating away by chemical reaction, such as occurs during caustic treatment of microorganisms in accordance with the invention. The term wsorptionw is used in the broad sense to include all forms of metal uptake, whether by adsorption, absorption, ionic bonding, among other forms of metal uptake. Another embodiment of the invention resides in a process for enhancing the metal uptake properties of microorganisms and the biomass reaction produced by the process. The microorganisms selected are those which have cell wall structures e.g., Bacillus subtilis which when reacted with a caustic solution form a substantially solid biomass reaction product having enhanced metal uptake properties.The Wcausticizedbl biomass or reaction product having the enhanced uptake capacity is slightly alkaline when dispersed in water. Thus, the invention provides a causticized microorganism in the form of a substantially solid biomass reaction product, the product being preferably in the articulate form. In producing the solid biomass reaction product, solutions of NaOH and KOH are preferred having concentrations ranging from about 0.25 molar to 1.25 molar. The microorganism, e.g., Bacillus subtilis, is treated with the caustic solution at temperatures ranging up to boiling, preferably above ambient temperature, e.g., from about 500C to 1000C, to form the biomass reaction product which is then washed to remove excess alkaline solution and then dried.The treated dried biomass may be in the form of hard, grindable bodies, such as plates. The biomass reaction product in the particulate form is slightly alkaline and can be used in a column to contact the metal containing aqueous stream. When the metal containing aqueous stream is contacted with the treated biomass, rapid metal uptake occurs. For example, when the solid biomass reaction product in the particulate state is suspended in the aqueous stream and the biomass particles become loaded with metal, the loaded particles, because of the increase in weight, settle readily and can be separated from the aqueous stream by conventional means and the metal values thereof easily recovered. Detailed Description Of The Invention Process waste waters treated in accordance with the invention may contain widely varying amounts of a heavy metal e.g., about 20 milligrams or less to about 2,000 milligrams or more per liter. To be treatable in accordance with the invention, the metal must be in cationic form. Anionic complex ions such as cyanide metal complexes, may be decomposed by known techniques prior to treatment. Common anions such as sulfates, chlorides, nitrates, phosphates, carbonates, etc., may be present without harm and solutions can successfully be treated over the pH range of about 2 to about 11, for example, about 3 to about 11, preferably about 4 to 8, e.g., about 4 to 6. The heavy metal usually will have an atomic number greater than 20, although aluminum, atomic number 13, can be recovered from aqueous solutions. The solid biomass product derived from B. subtilis cells is employed in the caustic treated condition, since greater uptake capacity for metal cations thereby results. As previously stated, the treatment preferably is effected by heating the cell biomass at 500 to 1000C or boiling, for 1 to 15 minutes with a solution preferably containing about 0.25 molar to about 1.25 molar NaOH concentration. KOH in equivalent amounts may be used. NH40H may be employed but is not as effective. Any excess sodium or potassium hydroxide is removed by water washing. The cell biomass may be hydroxylated and or cleansed by removing lipids and other organic matter which masks active sites by the caustic treatment.In any event, metal uptake by the causticized biomass is rapid, the treated biomass exhibiting high metal uptake capacity. Treatment with caustic at elevated temperatures, e.g., boiling temperatures, destroys autolytic enzymes enzymes that the organisms possess that cause putrefaction . Biomass treated with hot or bdiling sodium3 hydroxide solution to kill the cells and inactivate potentially putrefiable matter may be dewatered and dried prior to use. Centrifugation, filtration, etc. may be employed for dewatering. When drying is accomplished in shallow pans, a solid, hard, rock like plate resembling slate is produced. This hard material can be crushed, ground and sized for use in a metal extraction column.When drying is accomplished in such a manner as to produce the biomass reaction product in powder form, the powder can be agglomerated for use in a metal extraction column. Standard water treatment units may be used. For example, processing equipment comprising a mixing unit for contact between cell biomass product and metal containing liquid may be followed by a settling unit for removing metal containing particles from suspension with optional final filtration.This characteristic of the particulate biomass facilitates separation from the treated liquid. A continuous or batch type ultra filtration polymer membrane unit may be employed for mixing, sorption and filtration. Other modes for contacting metal containing liquids with solid caustic treated biomass include, for example, contact of the solution with the treated biomass immobilized in a matrix, such as a gel, or with a granular biomass contained in a column configuraton operated as a packed or fluidized bed.During metal accumulation in caustic treated biomass, the pH increases even though residual caustic is washed from the treated biomass. It is believed that, at equilibrium, powdered caustic treated biomass has greater ultimate metal loading capacity than coarse granulated, caustic treated biomass, this being due to the increased surface area of the powdered product. However, it is found that the caustic treated biomass can be metal saturated more efficiently than powdered biomass reaction product if it is dried, ground, sized, for example to 35 60 mesh and then contacted with a continuous flow of metal solution at a given concentration in a packed or fluidized bed contactor.Thus, packed or fluid bed systems containing a microorganismderived granular biomass reaction product will exhibit enhanced metal loading capacity when compared to coventional mixing settling systems using powdered biomass. The metal may be recovered from the loaded biomass in a number of ways. For example, copper, silver and gold can be separated from dewatered, loaded biomass by contact with iron. The initial contact can be very small, for example, a scratch in a Teflon coated steel pan, to initiate separation of metal from the biomass and once separation is initiated, it continues to form fan like metal figures radiating from the initial point of contact to produce dendritic appearing crystals of almost pure metal. Traces of iron are found near the initial contact point. High recovery of loaded metal is obtained. Precipitation of loaded metal appears to proceed on an atom by atom basis, at low temperature, e.g., 80 C. This observation indicates that the observed separation proceeds by galvanic action and thus indicates the invention is of particular value in extracting from solution metals which are below iron in the electromotive series namely, cadmium, cobalt, nickel, tin, lead, antimony, arsenic, bismuth, copper, mercury, silver, palladium, platinum and gold. Other heavy metal ions can be extracted. Metal can also be recovered pyrolitically from the loaded, dewatered biomass reaction product by fluid bed combustion or other incineration means using the biomass as fuel. An example will now be given Example I This example demonstrates that metal accumulation in caustic treated biomass obtained as a biomass reaction product from B. subtilis is greatly enhanced as compared to that obtained with untreated B. subtilis biomass. Metal accumulation is also enhanced when the treated biomass is dried to a hard, solid body, ground and sized, and the biomass product in particulate form contacted countercurrently with a continuous flow of metal solution in a packed or fluidized sorption column.Results obtained in treating dilute silver and copper solutions with caustic treated biomass as produced after boiling with 0.75MNaOH and which was then dried and ground to 60 mesh are shown in the following Table 1 Table 1 Initial Metal Sorption Concentration mg metal g Test Treatment Metal mg liter biomass, dry wt 1 None Ag 94.4 11.4 2 Boiled, 0.75M Ag 101.0 54.8 NaOH 3 Boiled, 0.75M Ag 110.0 86.7 NaOH, dried, sized, 60 mesh A None Cu2 91.6 9.2 5 Boiled, 0.75M Cu2 97.4 35.1 NaOH 6 Boiled, 0.75M Cu2 97.1 79.2 NaOH, dried, sized, 60 meshNote Tests 1 to 6 were conducted batch wise in a complete mix reactor. A number of other microorganisms, such as Aspergillus flavus and Saccharomyces uvarum, were given substantially the same caustic treatment as described for Bacillus subtilis inTable I. The NaOH treated microorganisms tested were examined for metal uptake and were found with respect to certain metal ions to provide improved effectiveness in recovering metal ions from solution, but in some instances, not as effective as the NaOH treated Bacillus subtilis.Examples of such microorganisms are listed in Table 2 below. Table 2 Microorganisms examined for metal uptake. Bacteria Escherichia coli Micrococcus luteus Pseudomonas aeruginosa Thiobacillus ferrooxidans TH3, iron oxidizing faculative thermophile Zoogloea ramigera Fungi Aspergillus flavus cladosporium sp,g Neurospora crassa Rhizopus stolonifer Yeast Saccharomyces uvarum Algae Chlorella pyrenoidosa Ulothrix sp Additional tests with microorganisms have indicated that some microorganisms tended to be more selective to the recovery of certain metal ions than others. For example, a microorganism selected might be superior in metal uptake capacity as to a particular metal ion when compared to B. subtilis, while being less effective compared to B. subtilis as to another metal ion. Thus, in carrying out the invention, the microorganism selected is that microorganism which provides enhanced metal uptake capacity as to the particular metal ion of interest, following treatment of the microorganism with caustic. For example, in the treatment of a solution containing metal ionsA and B and in which the metal ion of interest is B, the microorganism selected would be one which is particularly selective to the uptake of B. The remaining metal A may then be removed by a biomass reaction product produced from another microorganism more selective to A, although some A may have been taken up by the first biomass reaction product. Comparative tests were conducted on a series of microorganisms selected from the aforementioned group consisting of bacteria, yeasts, filamentous fungi and algae.In making the comparison, Bacillus subtilis was used as a standard. The results indicated that certain of the microorganisms tended to be more selective to the recovery of a particular metal ion than others. As illustrative of this selectivity, the following example is given. Example II Different microorganisms were grown and prepared for comparison of their respective capacity for metal accumulation from solutions containing lead as Pb NO3 2 and silver as AgNO The microorganisms were tested in the untreated and the caustic treated state. Biomass, which was not caustically treated, was harvested from growth medium using centrifugation. The cell paste was washed with water to remove residual medium components and the washed cell paste was oven dried and ground to yield 60 mesh particles. Caustic treated biomass was prepared by mixing cell paste with 3 NaOH, removing residual caustic, washing the paste, oven drying the paste to yield a hard slate like material, grinding and sizing the material to 60 mesh. The oven temperature was in the neighborhood of about 800C to 1000C. One half gram of each prepared biomass granule 60 mesh size was added to 990 ml of an approximate 100 mg metal liter solution shaken for 24 h at 150 rpm and 300C.The metal loading of the granules was calculated by determining the initial and final metal concentrations in tWe test solution. Various conditions were used in carrying out the experiment. The biomass was either not treated with NaOH or treated using 3 NaOH. In determining the effect of pH on metal accumulation, one test was run for lead accumulation using a solution pH adjusted so that the NaOH treated granules had a test pH near the value of that for the non treated granules. The results are summarized in Table 3. Table 3 Comparative values for silver and lead accumulation by treated and non treated, granulated microorganisms Metal Compara accumu tive metal Conc lation accumuMicroorganism Treatment Metal mg l pH mg g lation BacteriaBacillus none Ag 94 5.6 45 1 subtilis NaOH Ag 99 9.6 65 1 none Pb 100 5.3 74 1 NaOH Pb 95 9.7 174 1 NaOH Pb 97 6.5 170 1Escherichia none Ag 95 5.5 54 1.2 coli NaOH Ag 93 10.5 106 1.6 none Pb 100 5.5 60 0.8 NaOH Pb 91 10.7 174 1.0 NaOH Pb 101 6.3 180 1.1Pseudomonas none Ag 89 5.4 36 0.8 aeruginosa NaOH Ag 90 8.5 43 0.7 none Pb 87 5.3 60 0.8 NaOH Pb 90 9.5 142 0.8 NaOH Pb 101 5.9 176 1.0 YeastSaccharomyces none Ag 100 6.1 41 0.9 uvarum NaOH Ag 91 6.7 18 0.3 none Pb 100 5.6 86 1.2 NaOH Pb 97 4.5 109 0.6Filamentous FungiNeurospora none Ag 93 6.1 26 0.6 crassa NaOH Ag 96 9.1 87 1.3 none Pb 81 4.9 75 1.0 NaOH Pb 80 9.2 151 0.9 NaOH Pb 101 4.7 108 0.6Rhizopus none Ag 93 5.1 51 1.1 arrhizus NaOH Ag 84 8.3 101 1.6 none Pb 95 4.2 118 1.6 NaOH Pb 92 8.6 171 1.0Aspergillus none Ag 94 5.5 24 0.5 flavus NaOH Ag 94 8.3 94 1.4 none Pb 86 4.7 34 0.5 NaOH Pb 96 6.6 179 1.1AlgaeChlorella none Ag 95 6.9 55 1.2 vulgaris NaOH Ag 96 8.4 115 1.8 none Pb 95 5.9 165 2.2 NaOH Pb 95 8.7 178 1.0 NaOH Pb 97 5.8 188 1.1Chlorella none Ag 95 6.4 38 0.8 pyrenoidosa NaOH Ag 99 9.0 103 1.6 none Pb 95 4.8 69 0.9 NaOH Pb 102 . 9.2 175 1.0 NaOH Pb 101 4.9 143 0.8 comparative metal accumulation mg metal aceunulatedlg test microbe mg metal accumulated g B. subtilis The NaOH treatment enhanced accumulation of silver and lead for every microbe tested except for the yeast,Saccharomyces uvarum, which was selective to lead. The enhanced lead accumulation was not solely an effect of high pH the pH adjusted tests using the NaOH granules indicated similar uptake regardless of pH about 9 compared to about 6 . Comparison of the microbes tested with B, subtilis showed that most of the microbes exhibited improved metal uptake capacity when treated with caustic. Many of the microbes tested showed higher metal uptake capacity than B. subtilis.Other microorganisms, such as Ps. aeruginosa, S. uvarum andA. flavus, were not as effective, but nevertheless did show improvement with respect to certain metal ions when treated with caustic. However, B. subtilis is preferred in that the biomass reaction product produced therefrom is easier to handle when used to recover metal ions from aqueous solutions. The granules produced from the B. subtilis, E. coli andS. uvarum are relatively solid but not brittle hard. In a subjective sense, the biomass reaction product might be considered soft, although they are quite stable and substantially insoluble in aqueous solutions. Biomass reaction products produced from Ps. aeruginosa, N. crassa, R.arrhizus, A. flavus, C. vulgaris and C. pyrenoidosa were subjectively softer than the biomass reaction products of the aforementioned microorganisms. However, they gave very effective results with lead and or silver. Not all caustic materials have the same properties ofNaOH and KOH in producing granules of biomass reaction product. For example, calcium hydroxide is effective, but not as effective as NaOH. caustic materials included within the invention are those alkaline materials which convert the microorganism into a biomass reaction product which is substantially solid and stable, capable of forming granules andawhich granules are substantially insoluble in the aqueous solutions being treated. The term granules covers particulate biomass reaction products of any particle size capable of being easily handled in a system for carrying out the process. Granules of the substantially solid biomass reaction product are advantageous in recovering metal ions from solution in that the granules, because of their low density, can be easily suspended like a fluid bed in a column of solution in which the solution is caused to flow upwardly through a supporting column at a residence time sufficient to effect extraction of the metal ions of interest from the solution. As the granules or particles of the biomass reaction product become loaded with the metal ions of interest, the granules settle to the bottom of the column from which they are subsequently removed. A glass column is employed which contains the biomass granules at a specified depth. The dry weight of the granules is recorded. A solution at a specified metal concentration is pumped in the upflow direction through the column. Using this process, tests were conducted on a lead nitrate solution using a biomass reaction product produced from causticized B. subtilis. A plurality of one liter solutions containing lead nitrate were passed separately through the column containing 4 grams of the biomass reaction product until a total of 94 one liter influent volumes had passed through the column. After passage of each one liter volume, the amount of lead extracted was determined by analyzing the one volume effluent for residual lead. When the percent recovery reaches less than about 90 , the experiment is terminated. Following termination, the depth of the settled granules and the final weight dry weight are determined. The bottom one inch of granules in the column is assayed for metal content the bottom one inch is assumed to be near saturation loading. The remaining granules in the column are blended and assayed for metal content. The results are given inTable 4. As will be noted, 99 of the metal is removed from the influent solution. This is determined by analyzing the metal content of the effluent solution. Table 4 Removal of cationic lead by granules in upflow columnSOLUTION Lead Nitrate Pb NO3 2 pH OF INFLUENT 5WEIGHT OF GRANULES 4 gDEPTH OF GRANULES 2 7 8 in.SIZE OF GRANULES 35 60 meshSUPERFICIAL SOLUTION CONTACT TIME 1.5 min. ULTIMATE METAL LOADING 1150 mg Pb g granules dry wt SPECIAL CONDITIONS Shock loadings VOLUME INFLUENT EFFLUENT EFFLUENT PERCENT PROCESSED mg l mg l pH REMOVAL 1 1.0 8.5 0.1 9.09 99 2.0 8.5 0.1 8.64 99 3.0 8.5 0.1 8.93 99 4.0 8.5 0.1 8.74 99 5.0 8.5 0.1 9.05 99 6.0 8.5 0.1 8.71 99 7.0 8.5 0.3 8.33 96 8.0 8.5 0.1 8.63 99 9.0 8.5 0.1 8.57 99 10.0 8.5 0.1 8.66 99 11.0 8.5 0.1 8.87 99 12.0 8.5 0.1 8.46 99 13.0 8.3 0.1 7.01 99 14.0 18.5 0.1 7.82 99 15.0 18.5 0.1 7.57 99 16.0 18.5 0.1 7.51 99 17.0 18.5 0.1 6.14 99 18.0 18.5 0.1 6.40 99 19.0 18.5 0.1 6.23 99 20.0 508.0 0.8 7.87 99 21.0 17.6 0.2 8.06 99 22.0 17.6 0.1 7.64 99 23.0 17.6 0.1 7.19 99 24.0 17.6 0.1 7.94 99 25.0 494.0 118.0 5.36 99 26.0 8.7 5.9 5.58 32 27.0 8.7 0.1 6.72 99 28.0 9.2 0.1 6.98 99 29.0 9.2 30.0 9.2 31.0 9.2 0.1 6.92 99 32.0 8.9 0.1 6.64 99 33.0 8.9 0.1 6.31 99 34.0 8.9 0.1 5.82 99 35.0 8.9 0.1 6.77 99 36.0 8.0 0.1 6.53 99 37.0 8.0 0.1 6.16 99 38.0 8.0 0.1 6.32 99 39.0 7.3 0.1 6.06 99 40.0 7.3 0.1 6.35 99 41.0 7.3 0.1 6.56 99 42.0 7.3 0.1 6.42 99 43.0 7.3 0.1 6.44 99 44.0 7.3 0.1 6.14 99 45.0 7.3 0.2 6.49 99 46.0 8.1 0.8 6.47 95 47.0 8.1 0.1 6.35 99 48.0 8.2 0.1 6.51 99 49.0 8.2 0.2 6.51 99 50.0 8.2 0.1 6.28 99 51.0 8.2 0.1 5.94 99 52.0 8.2 0.1 6.11 99 53.0 20.4 0.1 6.51 99 55.0 20.4 0.2 6.25 99 57.0 20.1 0.1 6.32 99 59.0 20.1 0.1 6.90 99 61.0 20.1 0.1 6.66 99 63.0 16.8 0.1 6.50 99 65.0 16.8 0.1 6.17 99 67.0 16.8 0.1 6.24 99 69.0 19.0 0.1 5.63 99 71.0 19.0 0.1 5.67 99 73.0 18.8 0.1 6.42 99 75.0 18.8 0.1 6.53 99 77.0 18.8 0.1 6.25 99 79.0 18.8 0.2 6.09 99 81.0 19.8 0.4 98 83.0 19.8 0.3 5.96 98 85.0 19.8 0.1 5.98 99 87.0 19.2 0.2 6.03 99 89.0 19.2 0.8 96 91.0 18.9 0.8 5.90 96 93.0 18.9 4.6 5.53 76 94.0 18.9 1.5 5.44 92 The solutions tested were dilute, except for two solutions volumes 20 and 25 which contained shock loadings of 508 and 494 mg l of lead, respectively. Each pass through of solution from volumes 1 to 87 showed substantial removal of lead of about 998 for each volume. This test illustrates the very high metal uptake capacity of the 4 grams of biomass reaction product, despite the shock loading of volumes 20 and 25. Substantially all of the lead was removed from the solution by the granules. Additional tests were conducted on copper sulfate solution. These tests are reported in Tables 5 and 6. The solutions treated in Table 5 had a fairly high influent loading of copper of about 100 mg 1 whereas, in Table 6, the influent loading of copper was much lower and ranged from about 8.5 to 9.5 mg l of copper. Both tests showed a fairly high metal uptake capacity of the biomass reaction product. Table 5 Removal of cationic copper by granules in upflow column influent 100 mg Cu l SOLUTION Copper Sulfate CuSO4 pH OF INFLUENT 5WEIGHT OF GRANULES 5.75 gDEPTH OF GRANULES 3.75 in.SIZE OF GRANULES 35 60 meshSUPERFICIAL SOLUTION CONTACT TIME 2.3 min.ULTIMATE METAL LOADING 150.7 mg Cu g granules dry wt SPECIAL CONDITIONS none VOLUME INFLUENT EFFLUENT EFFLUENT PERCENT PROCESSED mg l mg l pH REMOVAL 1 1 100 0.1 7.3 99 2 100 0.3 6.9 99 3 100 2.5 6.2 97 5 100 6.1 6.2 94 7 100 24.8 5.6 75 9 100 49.7 5.0 50 Table 6 Removal of cationic copper by granules in upflow column influent 10 mg cu l SOLUTION Copper Sulfate CuSO4 pH OF INFLUENT 5.41WEIGHT OF GRANULES 6.5 gDEPTH OF GRANULES 4.16 in.SIZE OF GRANULES 35 60 meshSUPERFICIAL SOLUTION CONTACT TIME 2.3 min.ULTIMATE METAL LOADING 140 mg Cu g granules dry wt SPECIAL CONDITIONS none VOLUME INFLUENT EFFLUENT EFFLUENT PERCENT PROCESSED mg l mg l pH REMOVAL 1 1 8.5 0.1 9.66 99 2 8.5 0.2 7.94 98 3 8.5 0.3 6.94 96 5 9.1 0.1 6.93 99 7 9.1 0.1 6.83 99 9 9.2 0.1 7.31 99 11 9.2 0.1 6.85 99 13 9.2 0.1 6.42 99 15 9.3 0.1 6.85 99 17 9.3 0.2 7.05 98 19 9.6 0.1 6.54 99 21 9.6 0.1 6.53 99 23 9.5 0.4 96 25 9.5 0.4 6.56 96 27 9.5 0.1 7.06 99 29 8.5 0.1 7.45 99 31 8.5 0.1 7.68 99 33 8.5 0.1 7.05 99 35 8.5 0.1 6.75 99 37 9.0 0.1 6.77 99 39 9.0 0.1 6.87 99 41 9.0 0.1 6.89 99 43 9.0 0.1 6.95 99 45 9.0 0.1 6.74 99 47 9.4 0.1 6.81 99 49 9.4 0.2 6.48 98 51 9.4 0.1 6.64 99 53 9.4 0.2 6.31 98 55 9.0 0.8 5.85 91 57 9.0 1.1 5.98 88 58 9.0 1.2 5.96 87 As will be apparent from the tests summarized in Tables 4 to 6, a biomass reaction product may exhibit different metal uptake properties for different metal ions. Likewise, as will be apparent from Table 3, different biomass reaction products exhibit different selectivity for different metal ions. Despite such differences, the biomass reaction products described herein have great utility. For example, where it is desired to cleanup wastewater containing toxic metal ions, at least two of which are selective to different biomass products, a mixture of two or more biomass products may be employed to remove the toxic elements. With regard to the caustic reagent used to carry out the invention, it has been found that a strong detergent material sold under the trademark ALCONOX appears to act similarly to sodium hydroxide in treating B. subtilis. This detergent is a long chain alkyl sulfonate which is a wetting agent. It is biodegradable. It contains about 7.3 phosphorus by weight as trisodium phosphate. The pH of the detergent is 9 to 9.5. Attempts have been made to explain the reason for the selective behavior of caustic treated microorganisms. While we do not wish to be held to any particular theory, it has been stated that the cell walls of Bacillus subtilis a Gram positive bacterium are considered to be polymeric in nature including strands of mucopeptides peptidoglycans , teichoic acids or teichuronic acids distributed and attached along their length. The long polymers comprising the mucopeptides are composed of three kinds of building blocks namely, N acetylglucosamine AGA , N acetylmuramic acid AMA , and a peptide consisting of four or five amino acids i.e., L alanine, D alanine, D glutamic acid and either lysine or diaminopimelic acid. A substantial proportion, e.g., about 35 of the mucopeptide strands are cross linked together through transpeptide D alanyl L meso diaminopimelyl bonds.The polymeric structure possesses chemically reactive groups including oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur and phosphorus which carry lone electron pairs that bind metals. Such atoms are effective as electron donors for metal ions. The effects of sodium hydroxide upon such materials are not readily evident although, inter alia, it is believed sodium hydroxide removes lipids and other organic impurities that mask reactive sites. Caustic treated cell wall material from otherGram positive bacilli having mucopeptide strands cross linked with peptide bonds and reacting similarly to caustic treatment may also be employed in accordance with the invention. The Gram negative bacterium, E. coli, is also particularly useful as a starting material, in carrying out the invention. Conversion of the caustic treated biomass derived from B.subtilis cells into particles by drying to a hard or solid body and grinding facilitates handling and promotes treatment of metal containing aqueous streams to recover the metal content thereof by continuous counter current decantation, by pulsed bed, fluid bed and other technologies in which a column of liquid undergoing treatment can be employed. A bed of ground particles contacted with an upwardly flowing metal containing stream can become classified with coarser particles in the lower portion of the bed and finer, more active particles in the upper portion of the bed. In this way, the coarser particles contact fresh feed while the finer particles contact a partially metal depleted stream. This action promotes high loading of the particles and high recovery of metal from the incoming stream. In summary, the invention comprises various embodiments. One embodiment is directed to a process for enhancing the metal uptake properties of Bacillus subtilis from aqueous solutions containing metal cations in which cells of the bacterium, Bacillus subtilis, are treated with a caustic solution to form a causticized material consisting essentially of a biomass reaction product. In another embodiment, the biomass reaction product is recovered and dried to form a relatively solid, stable product. The biomass reaction product in the particulate state exhibits substantially enhanced metal uptake capacity as compared to the metal uptake capacity of the Bacillus subtilis in the untreated state. A preferred caustic solution is one selected from the group consisting of NaOH and KOH. As stated herein, the caustic treatment may be carried out at temperatures ranging up to boiling and preferably over temperature range of about 500C to about l000C. The process is applicable to a relatively broad range of microorganisms provided they are characterized by cell wall structures. Thus, the process is applicable to cells of bacilli, such as Gram positive bacteria e.g., B. subtilis and Gram negative bacteria e.g., E. coli . Examples of microorganisms are bacteria, yeast, fungi and algae, so long as the microorganism is characterized by a cell wall structure and is selective to uptake of metal ions, and which when treated with a caustic solution produces a relatively solid, stable biomass reaction product having substantially enhanced metal uptake capacity for metal ions compared to the uptake capacity before treatment. The biomass reaction product of the invention consists essentially of a causticized non living microorganism. A particular advantage of the invention is that a microorganism derived biomass reaction product, in the form of a solid, stable particulate material, can be used as a fluid bed in an aqueous solution containing metal cations with the solution flowing countercurrently through the bed.As the particles of the bed become loaded, they segregate to a lower part of the bed from which they can be removed for the subsequent recovery of metal therefrom.