# Plant growth regulation agent.

## Abstract
A plant growth regulation agent for increasing grids and improving the quality of various plants. This agent compris es, as an effective component, at least one compound selected from the group consisting of compounds repre sented by general formulas

## Claims
Claims 1. A plant growth regulation agent characterized by comprising, as an effective component, at least one compound selected from the group consisting of compounds represented by general formulas EMI20.1 andEMI20.2 wherein each of R1, R2 and R3 is H, alkyl or alkenyl group containing 1 to 4 carbon atoms or benzyl group R4 CH3CH CH is H, CH3, C2H5, CH2 CH or 1 2 and X is CN, COOH, COOCH3, COOC2H5 or CONH2 R , R2 and R in general formula A not being simultaneously hydrogen atoms and salts thereof, and R , R2 and R3 in general formula B not being hydrogen atoms. 2. An agent according to claim 1, wherein the compound is N allylglycine or a salt thereof. 3. An agent according to claim 1, wherein the compound is vinylglycine. 4. An agent according to claim 1, wherein the compound is one member selected from the group consisting of N allylglycine, N allylglycine hydrochloride, N allylglycine sodium salt,N allylglycine potassium salt, N allylglycine choline salt, and N allylglycine ethyl ester. 5. An agent according to claim 1, further consisting of an effective amount of a surfactant. 6. An agent according to claim 1, wherein the plant is a corn plant. 7. An agent according to claim 1, wherein the plant is a bean plant. 8. An agent according to claim 1, wherein the plant is a potato plant. 9. An agent according to claim 1, wherein the plant is a wheat plant. 10. An agent according to claim 1, wherein the plant is a rice plant. 11. A method of increasing an yield and of improving a quality of a crop of a plant by application of a compound according to claim 1 to stems and leaves of the plant. 12. A method of facilitating rooting of a plant by immersing seedlings of the plant in a dilute solution of a compound according to claim 1.

## Description
Plant growth regulation agent The present invention relates to a plant growth regulation agent for increasing yields and improving the quality of plants such as rice, wheat, potato, bean, vegetable, and corn plants, as well as fodder grasses and fruit trees. O phenylhydroxylamine is known as a growth regulation agent for bean plants such as soybean plants Japanese Patent Publication No. 58 134001 . Choline chloride is known as a growth regulation agent for potato plants such as sweet potatoes. When seedlings of sweet potatoes are immersed in a dilute aqueous solution of choline chloride, the rooting rate is considerably increased. In order to suppress the stem length of wheat plants, Ccc 2 chloroethyl trimethylammonium chloride , 8CB 2 bromoethyl trimethylammonium bromide , and the like are widely used as wheat growth regulation agents. Hydroxyisoxazole is known as a rice growth regulation agent and can increase rice yield. It is an object of the present invention to provide a plant growth regulation agent which can facilitate photosynthesis of all plants such as cereals, vegetables, and fruit trees and increase their yields. In order to achieve the above object of the present invention, there is provided a plant growth regulation agent characterized by comprising, as an effective component, at least one compound selected from the group consisting of compounds represented by general formulas EMI2.1 andEMI2.2 wherein each of R1, R2 and R3 is H, alkyl or alkenyl group containing 1 to 4 carbon atoms or benzyl group R4 is H, CH3, C2H5, CH2 CH, or CH3CH CH and X is CN, COOH,COOCH3, COOC2H5 or CONH2 RÚ, Rê and R4 in general formula A not being simultaneously hydrogen atoms and salts thereof, and R1, R2 and R3 in general formula B not being hydrogen atoms. Examples of the compounds represented by general formulas A and B as an effective component of the present invention may include those in Tables I and II, respectively, presented below For EMI3.1 Table 1 EMI3.2 Compound SEP No. SEP R1 SEP Rê SEP R4 SEP X SEP Properties tb 1 SEP CH2 CHCH2 SEP H SEP H SEP CN SEP bp SEP 77 78 C SEP 18mmHg tb 2 SEP CH2 CHCH2 SEP H SEP H SEP COOC2H5 SEP bp SEP 77 78.5 C SEP 19mmHg tb 3 SEP CH2 CHCH2 SEP H SEP H SEP COONa SEP 4 SEP CH2 CHCH2 SEP H SEP H SEP COOK SEP dp SEP 223 C tb 5 SEP CH2 CHCH2 SEP H SEP H SEP COOH SEP mp SEP 167 168 C tb 6 SEP CH2 CHCH2 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CN SEP bp SEP 68 69 C SEP 12mmHg tb 7 SEP CH2 CHCH2 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP COOC2H5 SEP bp SEP 72.5 75.0 C SEP 15mmHg tb 8 SEP CH2 CHCH2 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP COOK SEP dp SEP 188 C tb 9 SEP CH2 CHCH2 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CONH2 SEP mp SEP 98.5 99.5 C tb 10 SEP C2H5 SEP H SEP H SEP CN SEP bp SEP 62.5 C SEP 16mmHg tb 11 SEP CH3Ch CHCH2 SEP H SEP H SEP COOC2H5 SEP bp SEP 62 65.5 C SEP 5.5mmHg tb 12 SEP CH3Ch CHCH2 SEP H SEP H SEP CN SEP bp SEP 94 95 C SEP 19mmHg tb 13 SEP H SEP H SEP CH2 CH SEP COOH SEP dp SEP 167 C tb to SEP be SEP continued tb EMI4.1 Compound SEP No. SEP R1 SEP Rê SEP R4 SEP X SEP Properties tb 14 SEP H SEP H SEP CH3CH CH SEP COOH SEP dp SEP 220 C tb Hydrochloride, tb 15 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP COOH SEP mp SEP 190 192 C tb 16 SEP CH2 CHCH2 SEP C2H5 SEP H SEP COOC2H5 SEP Oily SEP Product tb 17 SEP CH2 CHCH2 SEP C2H5 SEP H SEP COOK SEP mp SEP 30 31 C tb 18 SEP CH2 CHCH2 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP COOK SEP mp SEP 46 48 C tb 19 SEP CH2 C CH3 CH2 SEP C2H5 SEP H SEP COOK SEP Oily SEP Product tb 20 SEP CH2 C CH3 CH2 SEP CH2 C CH3 CH2 SEP H SEP COOK SEP mp SEP 281 283 C tb 21 SEP CH2 CHCH2 SEP CH2 CHCH2 SEP H SEP COOK SEP dp SEP 221 C tb 22 SEP CH2 CHCH2 SEP H SEP C2H5 SEP COOH SEP dp SEP 221 C tb 23 SEP CH2 CHCH2 SEP H SEP H SEP CONH2 SEP mp SEP 44.5 45.0 C tb 24 SEP CH2 CHCH2 SEP H SEP H SEP COOH SEP mp SEP 133 135 C tb SEP BP SEP 75.0 75.5 C tb 25 SEP N C3H7 SEP H SEP H SEP CN SEP 14.OmmHg tb SEP BP SEP 63.0 64.0 C tb 26 SEP C6H5CH2 SEP H SEP H SEP CN SEP 1mmHg tb 28 SEP CH3CH CHCH2 SEP H SEP H SEP CONH2 SEP m.p SEP 38.0 38.5 C tb EMI5.1 Compound SEP No. SEP R1 SEP Rê SEP R4 SEP X SEP Properties tb 29 SEP N C3H7 SEP H SEP H SEP CONH2 SEP BP SEP 59.0 C SEP 2mmHg tb 30 SEP C6H5CH2 SEP H SEP H SEP CONH2 SEP mp SEP 92.5 93.5 C tb SEP BP SEP 75.0 76.0 C tb 31 SEP N C2H7 SEP H SEP H SEP COOC2H5 SEP 12.5mmHg tb SEP BP SEP 152.0 153.5 C tb 32 SEP C6H5CH2 SEP H SEP H SEP COOC2H5 SEP 16mmHg tb 33 SEP CH3CH CHCH2 SEP H SEP H SEP COOK SEP dp SEP 235.0 C tb 34 SEP N C3H7 SEP H SEP H SEP COOH SEP mp SEP 184.0 186 C tb Oily tb 35 SEP CH2 CHCH2 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP COOC2H5 SEP Product SEP ND24.6 C SEP 1.43540 tb 36 SEP CH2 C CH3 CH2 SEP C2H5 SEP H SEP COOC2H5 SEP SEP ND25.4 C SEP 1.44540 tb 37 SEP CH2 C CH3 CH2 SEP CH2 C CH3 CH2 SEP H SEP COOC2H5 SEP SEP ND25.4 C SEP 1.44682 tb RTI ID 6.1 For EMI6.1 Table II EMI6.2 Compound SEP No. SEP R1 SEP Rê SEP R SEP R4 SEP X SEP Properties tb Oily SEP Product tb 38 SEP CH2 CHCH2 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP COOC2H5 SEP Hydrobromide tb Oily SEP Product tb 39 SEP CH2 CHCH2 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP COOH SEP Internal SEP Salt tb Hydrochloride tb 40 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP COOH SEP mp SEP 227 228 C tb Hydrobromide tb 41 SEP CH2 CHCH2 SEP CH2 CHCH2 SEP CH2 CHCH2 SEP H SEP COOC2H5 SEP mp SEP 80 83 C tb 42 SEP CH2 CHCH2 SEP CH2 CHCH2 SEP CH2 CHCH2 SEP H SEP COOH SEP Oily SEP Product tb Hydrobromide tb 43 SEP C2H5 SEP C2H5 SEP C2H5 SEP H SEP COOC2H5 SEP mp SEP 35 36 C tb 44 SEP C2H5 SEP C2H5 SEP C2H5 SEP H SEP COOH SEP Oily SEP Product tb Among the compounds enumerated above, allylsubstituted glycine and the like are preferable.N allylglycine is particularly preferable.N allylglycine, salts thereof, and esters thereof with lower alcohols include N allylglycine, N allylglycine hydrochloride, N allylglycine sodium salt, N allylglycine potassium salt, N allylglycine choline salt, and N allylglycine ethyl ester. These compounds themselves are known and can be prepared by conventional methods. Some examples of methods of preparing these compounds are exemplified below.Manufacturing Example 1Preparation of N allylglycine ethyl ester A mechanical stirrer, a cooling tube, a dripping funnel, and a thermocouple were mounted on a 2 1 three necked flask. Sufficiently dehydrated ether was charged in the flask in an amount of 700 m , and was cooled with ice. The system was kept in a nitrogen atmosphere. When the system was sufficiently cooled, allylamine was added in an amount of 166 g 2.9 moles and stirring was continued for a while. Bromoacetate ethyl ester was added dripwise through the dripping funnel in an amount of 230 g 1.4 moles . Care must be taken not to add this ester too quickly since such addition causes vigorous refluxing of the ether. In the course of dripping, a white slurry was produced. After dripping was completed, the contents were stirred for 3 hours while the temperature was kept constant. After the reaction, the slurry was filtered to remove the solvent and reduced pressure evaporation was performed to provide 15 g yield of 80 of N allylglycine ethyl ester. The obtained ester had a boiling point of 79 to 80 C 14 to 15 mmHg . IR film 3360 NH EMI8.1 1650 Ch CH2 cm 1RMR l3 1.28 3H, t 1.83 1H, S 3,28 2H, d 3.36 2H, S 4.19 2H, q 5.11 1H, d 5.13 1H, d 5.74 6.18 1H, m Manufacturing Example 2Preparation of N allylglycine potassium salt After a 3 1 separable flask was charged with 500 ml of ethanol, 62 g 1.15 moles of potassium hydroxide were added and were completely dissolved. After dissolving KOH, 165 g 1.15 moles of the N allylglycine ethyl ester were dripped through a dripping funnel at room temperature. A white slurry was produced during dripping. After dripping was completed, refluxing was performed for 1 hour to completely dissolve the slurry.The contents were left to stand overnight. Since white solids had precipitated, the solids were filtered by suction and the resultant crystals were washed with ethanol and dried by reduced pressure to provide 150 g of white crystals. The yield was 80 . The product had a melting point of 223 C.Calc. C 39.19 , H 5.26 , N 9.14 Found C 39.0 , H 5.4 , N 9.4 IR n ujul max 3325 NH 1650 CH CH2 EMI8.2 PMR 6 D2C 3.07 1H, S 3.10 2H, S 3.11 2H, d 5.18 1H, d 5.24 1H, d 5.73 6.17 1H, m The agent of the present invention is prepared in a normal form such as a powder or an aqueous or oil dispersion.Agent Preparation Example Fifty grams of N allylglycine potassium salt were dissolved in about 100 ml of pure water and concentrated hydrochloric acid was added to the solution to adjust its pH to 7.0. Polyoxyethylene oleyl ether as a surfactant and triethanolamine lauryl sulfate were added in amounts of 10 g, respectively. Pure water was further added to provide 250 g of an agent containing 20 of N allylglycine potassium salt. The agent is used after being diluted to 100 to 400 times. The amount of the plant growth regulation agent used according to the present invention differs depending upon the type of crop, growth stage, application method, and application time. However, the agent of the present invention is generally applied in an amount of 0.03 to 4 kg per ha and preferably in an amount of 0.1 to 2 kg per ha, and in the form of an aqueous solution. In the case of corn plants, an aqueous solution of the agent of the present invention is applied to the stems and leaves in the early growth stage. In this case, the agent is preferably applied in an amount of 0.03 to 3 kg per ha and more preferably in an amount of 0.1 to 2 kg per ha. In the case of wheat plants, an aqueous solution of the agent of the present invention is applied to stems and leaves at or close to the blooming period. The agent, in this case, is preferably applied in an amount of 0.03 to 3 kg per ha and more preferably in an amount of 0.1 to 2 kg per ha. In the case of bean plants, an aqueous solution of the agent of the present invention is applied to stems and leaves at or close to the blooming period. In this case, the agent is preferably used in an amount of 0.05 to 4 kg per ha and more preferably in an amount of 0.1 to 2 kg. In the case of potato plants, particularly, sweet potato plants, an aqueous solution of the agent of the present invention is applied to stems and leaves within 1 to 2 months after transplantation of seedlings. In the case of white potatoes, an aqueous solution of the agent is applied to stems and leaves at or close to the blooming period. The agent, in either case, is preferably applied in an amount of 0.05 to 4 kg per ha and more preferably in an amount of 0.1 to 2 kg per ha. In the case of rice plants, an aqueous solution of the agent of the present invention is applied to stems and leaves at or close to the blooming period. The agent is preferably applied in an amount of 0.03 to 3 kg per ha and more preferably in an amount of 0.1 to 2 kg per ha. The agent of the present invention can be applied in admixture with a liquid fertilizer, an insecticide, a herbicide, a fungicide or the like. In order to allow easy deposition on and absorption of the agent by a plant, a surfactant can be added to an aqueous solution of the agent before application. The present invention will now be described in more detail by way of its Test Examples.Test Example 1Photosynthesis Test Using Protoplast In order to demonstrate accelerated photosynthesis by application of a plant growth regulation agent according to the present invention, a test was performed using protoplasts of a wheat plant as a test plant. Wheat plants Norin No. 61 were cultured for 10 days using vermiculite as culture soil in a natural light fighttron kept at 25 C during daytime and at 20 C at nighttime. Protoplasts were separated from the wheat plant by a conventional method, and photosynthesis performance of the protoplasts was tested using an oxygen electrode. The protoplast was irradiated with light at luminances of 40,000 to 100,000 lux in a dissolved carbon dioxide gas without using NaHC03 , and the photosynthesis performance of the protoplasts was determined in accordance with oxygen emission. Using 50 mM Hepe KOH pH 7.0 , 0.4 M sorbitol and 1 m MEDTA as a reaction solution, the protoplasts and a test compound were incubated for 1 minute, and the contents were irradiated with light to determine the photosynthesis performance of the protoplasts for comparison with the photosynthesis performance before addition of the test compound. The measurement results are shown in Table III below. Table IIIEMI11.1 tb Compound SEP No. SEP Concentration SEP 100,000 SEP lux SEP 40,000 SEP lux tb SEP mM tb Not SEP treated SEP SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 4 SEP 10 SEP 126 SEP 124.1 tb SEP 20 SEP 137.6 SEP 133.5 tb SEP 15 SEP 10 SEP 108 tb SEP 16 SEP 10 SEP SEP 111 tb SEP 17 SEP 10 SEP 110 tb SEP 18 SEP 10 SEP 112 tb SEP 19 SEP 10 SEP 107 tb SEP 20 SEP SEP 10 SEP SEP 115 tb SEP 21 SEP 16 SEP SEP 110 SEP tb SEP 22 SEP 1 SEP 104 SEP SEP tb SEP 24 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 107 tb SEP 38 SEP 10 SEP 116 SEP SEP 1 SEP SEP tb SEP 39 SEP 10 SEP 110 SEP tb SEP 40 SEP 10 SEP 108 tb Test Example 2 Wagner s pots each having a volume of a 5000 were charged with paddy field soil. Rice plant seedlings in the 3.5 leaf stage Nihonbare were transplanted in the pots and were cultured outdoors. 100 ppm, 500 ppm and 1,000 ppm aqueous solutions of compound No. 4 containing 200 ppm of polyoxyethylene alkyl allyl ether as a surfactant were applied in amounts of 10 mS per pot on stems and leaves of the plants on August 7. The rice plants were harvested onOctober 25. The test results are shown in Table IV below. Table IVEMI12.1 tb Concentration SEP Straw SEP Weight SEP Unpolished SEP Rice tb SEP g pot SEP SEP Ratio SEP g pot SEP Ratio tb Not SEP treated SEP 45.4 SEP 100 SEP 25.0 SEP 100 tb 100 SEP 46.0 SEP 101 SEP 25.5 SEP 102 tb 500 SEP 48.5 SEP 107 SEP 30.9 SEP 123 tb 1000 SEP 47.3 SEP 103 SEP 26.5 SEP 106 tb Test Example 3 White potato plants Waseshiro were cultured for 2 months until in the blooming period after transplantation in a field. 100 ppm, 600 ppm and 1,000 ppm aqueous solutions of compound No. 3 containing 200 ppm of polyoxyethylene alkyl allyl ether as a surfactant were applied in an amount of 2,000 per ha of the field.After 1.5 months from application, the potatoes were harvested, and the total weight of the harvested potatoes and the number of potatoes weighing over 20 g was counted. The results are shown in Table V. Table VEMI13.1 tb Compound SEP No. SEP Weight SEP Number SEP of SEP Pieces tb Application tb Amount SEP g ha SEP t ha SEP ratio SEP x1000 ha SEP ratio tb Non treatment SEP 25 SEP 7 SEP 100 SEP 193 SEP 0 SEP 100 tb plot SEP tb 3 SEP 200 SEP 27.4 SEP 106 SEP 223.0 SEP 116 tb 3 SEP 600 SEP 26.9 SEP 104 SEP 204.0 SEP 106 tb 3 SEP 2000 SEP 27.6 SEP 107 SEP 196 0 SEP 102 tb Test Example 4 Sweet potatoes Koganesengan were grown for 1 month after transplantation in a field. 100 ppm, 300 ppm and 1,000 ppm aqueous solutions of compoundNo. 3 containing 200 ppm of polyoxyethylene alkyl allyl ether as a surfactant were applied to the field in an amount of 1,000 per ha.Two months after application, the sweet potatoes were harvested, and the total weight of sweet potatoes weighing over 30 9 was measured. The obtained results are shown in Table VI. Table VIEMI13.2 tb Compound SEP No. SEP Application SEP ton ha SEP Ratio SEP to SEP Non tb Amount SEP g ha SEP ton ha SEP treatment SEP plot tb Non treatment SEP plot SEP 21.0 SEP 100 tb 3 SEP 100 SEP 22.5 SEP 107 tb 3 SEP 300 SEP 23.1 SEP 110 tb 3 SEP 1000 SEP 22.7 SEP 108 tb Test Example 5 Soybean plants Kitakomachi were sown on May 6. On June 29, 10 days after the blooming period June 19 , the agents were applied. More specifically, 60 g, 200 g, 600 g and 2,000 g of compounds Nos. 4 and 13, respectively, were dissolved in 2,000 d of water, and 200 ppm of polyoxyethylene alkyl allyl ether as a surfactant was added to each solution obtained. Each solution was uniformly applied to stems and leaves of the plants in an amount of 2,000 1 per ha. Thereafter, soybeans were harvested on September 15, and the yield in each test plot was measured. The obtained results are shown in Table VII. Table VIIEMI14.1 tb SEP Aplication SEP Average SEP Yield SEP of tb Compound SEP Amound SEP g ha SEP Two SEP P tb No. SEP Amount SEP g ha SEP Two SEP Plots SEP tb SEP Kg ha SEP Ratio SEP to SEP Non Treat tb SEP ment SEP Plot tb SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP 4020 SEP 100 tb SEP 60 SEP 4025 SEP 100 tb SEP 200 SEP 4382 SEP 109 tb SEP 600 SEP 5266 SEP 131 tb SEP 2000 SEP 5387 SEP 134 tb 13 SEP 60 SEP 4021 SEP 100 tb SEP 200 SEP 4422 SEP 110 tb SEP 600 SEP 4221 SEP 105 tb Test Example 6 Winter sowing wheat plants Horoshiri Komugi were grown to the blooming period May 21 . 30 g, 100 g, 300 g and 1,000 g of compound No. 4 were respectively dissolved in 1,000 1 volumes of water, and 200 ppm of polyoxyethylene alkyl allyl ether as a surfactant was added to each resultant solution. Each solution was uniformly applied to stems and leaves of the wheat plants with a sprayer in an amount of 1,000 Q per ha. The wheat crop was harvested on July 25, 1 month after the application. The dry weight of the aboveground portion, and the yield of wheat crop was measured one plot three series test plot . The measured results are shown in Table VIII. Table VIIIEMI15.1 tb Application SEP Aboveground SEP Portion SEP Average SEP Yield SEP of tb Amount SEP Dry SEP Weight SEP Wheat tb SEP g ha SEP kg ha SEP Ratio SEP to SEP kg ha SEP Ratio SEP to tb SEP Non Treatment SEP Non Treat tb SEP Plot SEP ment SEP Plot tb Not SEP treated SEP 12.650 SEP 100 SEP 5480 SEP 100 tb SEP 30 SEP 13.120 SEP 104 SEP 5650 SEP 103 tb SEP 100 SEP 13.100 SEP 103 SEP 5670 SEP 103 tb SEP 300 SEP 13.580 SEP 107 SEP 5990 SEP 109 tb 1000 SEP 16.020 SEP 127 SEP 7080 SEP 129 tb Test Example 7 500 9 each of compounds Nos. 4 and 5 were dissolved in 1,000 1 volumes of water, and 200 ppm of polyoxyethylene alkyl allyl ether as a surfactant was added to each solution.Each solution was uniformly applied to stems and leaves of winter sowing wheat plants Horoshiri Mugi 20 before blooming May 8 and at the blooming period May 28 in an amount of 1,000 Q per ha. The wheat crop was harvested onAugust 5, and the yield was measured one plot two series test plot . The measured results are shown in Table IX. Table IXEMI16.1 tb Compound SEP Appli SEP Application SEP Time SEP Average SEP Yield SEP of tb SEP No. SEP cation SEP Wheat tb SEP Amount tb SEP g ha SEP kg ha SEP Ratio SEP to SEP Non tb SEP Treatment SEP Plot tb Not SEP 5 tb treated SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 6535 SEP 100 tb SEP 500 SEP 20 SEP days SEP before SEP 7842 SEP 120 tb SEP 4 SEP blooming tb SEP 500 SEP Blooming SEP period SEP 7319 SEP 112 tb SEP 500 SEP 20 SEP days SEP before SEP 7907 SEP 121 tb SEP 5 SEP blooming tb SEP 500 SEP Blooming SEP period SEP 7581 SEP 116 tb SEP 500 SEP 20 SEP days SEP before SEP 7973 SEP 122 tb SEP 18 SEP blooming tb SEP 500 SEP Blooming SEP period SEP 7450 SEP 114 tb SEP 500 SEP 20 SEP days SEP before SEP 7777 SEP 119 tb SEP 20 SEP blooming tb SEP 500 SEP Blooming SEP period SEP 7319 SEP 112 tb SEP 500 SEP 20 SEP days SEP before SEP 7515 SEP 115 tb SEP 38 SEP blooming tb SEP 500 SEP Blooming SEP period SEP 7189 SEP 110 SEP tb Test Example 8 One seed each of corn plants Honeybantam was sown in a plastic pot having a volume of 1,000 mi, and culture was performed under natural conditions. Compound No. 4 was dissolved in concentrations shown inTable X, and 200 ppm of polyoxyethylene alkyl allyl ether as a surfactant was added to each solution. Each solution was applied to the corn plants in the 2 leaf stage such that each plant was sufficiently wetted. In 21 days after application, the dry weights of the aboveground and underground portions were measured. The measured results are shown in Table X. Table XEMI17.1 tb Concen SEP Aboveground SEP Portion SEP Underground SEP Portion tb trati SEP on SEP g pot SEP Ratio SEP to SEP Non SEP g pot SEP Ratio SEP to SEP Non tb SEP ppm SEP Treatment SEP Plot SEP Treatment SEP Plot tb Not SEP 3.50 SEP 100 SEP 1.82 SEP 100 tb treated tb SEP 100 SEP 4.62 SEP 132 SEP 1.98 SEP 109 tb SEP 300 SEP 5.04 SEP 144 SEP 2.11 SEP 116 tb 1000 SEP 5.57 SEP 159 SEP 1 SEP 2.17 SEP 119 tb Test Example 9 One soybean seed Yukimusume each was sown in plastic pots having a volume of 1 1 April 5 , and culture was performed in a green house.Each compound shown in Table XI was dissolved in concentrations shown in Table XI, and 200 ppm of polyoxyethylene alkyl allyl ether as a surfactant was added to each solution.Each solution was applied to stems and leaves of the plants in the 2 leaf stage until each plant was sufficiently wetted. 20 days after application May 22 , the dry weights of the aboveground portions were measured.The obtained results are shown in Table XI. Table XIEMI18.1 tb Compound SEP Concentration SEP Ratio SEP to SEP Non Treatmet SEP Plot tb SEP No. SEP ppm SEP 7.53g plant tb Not SEP SEP SEP 100 tb treated tb No. SEP 5 SEP 300 SEP 126 tb SEP 1000 SEP 107 tb o. SEP 17 SEP 300 SEP 107 tb SEP 1000 SEP 117 tb No. SEP 18 SEP 300 SEP 110 tb SEP 1000 SEP 121 tb No. SEP 19 SEP 300 SEP 105 tb SEP 1000 SEP 122 tb No. SEP 21 SEP 300 SEP 110 tb SEP 1000 SEP 119 tb No. SEP 39 SEP 300 SEP 103 tb SEP 1000 SEP 126 tb Test Example 10 Ten seeds each of wheat plants Shunko were sown in Wagner s pots each having a volume of a 5000 July 10 , and culture was performed under natural conditions.Each compound in Table XII below was dissolved in concentrations shown therein, and 200 ppm of polyoxyethylene alkyl allyl ether as a surfactant was added to each solution. Each solution was applied to stems and leaves of the plants in the 2 leafstage in an amount of 5 ml per pot. 20 days after application August 12 , the dry weight of the aboveground portion was measured. The obtained results are shown inTable XII. Table XIIEMI19.1 tb Compound SEP Concentration SEP Ratio SEP to SEP Non Treatment SEP Plot tb SEP No. SEP ppm SEP 1.52g plant tb Not tb treated SEP SEP SEP SEP 100 tb No. SEP 17 SEP 300 SEP 114 tb SEP 1000 SEP 121 tb No. SEP 20 SEP 300 SEP 133 tb SEP 1000 SEP 106 tb No. SEP 21 SEP 300 SEP 120 tb SEP 1000 SEP 107 tb No. SEP 39 SEP 300 SEP 117 tb SEP 1000 SEP 122 tb