# Pigments having polymeric amine metallate coatings, process for their preparation and surface coating composition containing these coated pigments.

## Abstract
Coated pigments are described wherein the coating comprises a polymeric amine metallate which is a poly meric aluminate or zincate of a polyhydroxy amine. A typical amine is triethanolamine and a polymeric metallate is formed by reaction with an appropriate aluminium or zinc compound, preferably in the presence of a base pig ment to form a coating on the pigment containing up to 2 by weight, calculated as metal oxide, of the amine metal late. The invention includes the process of preparing the coating on the pigment by treating the pigment with the polymeric metallate or other precursors at a temperature of from 50 to 350 C.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A pigment having a coating which comprises a polymeric amine metallate of the general formulaEMI14.1 where R is an alkylene radical of from 1 6 carbon atoms, n is an integer of 4 6, M is aluminum or zinc and q is 1 when M is aluminum and q is 3 2 when M is zinc or a polymeric amine met all ate of the general formulaEMI14.2 where p is an integer from 1 5 and n, q, M and R are as defined above, the coating being present in an amount sufficient to enhance the gloss of the uncoated pigment and in an amount of not more than 2 by weight calculated as metal oxide and based on the weight of the base pigment. 2. A coated pigment according to Claim 1 wherein the base pigment is rutile TiO2. 3. A coated pigment according to Claim 2 wherein 2 the base pigment has a surface area of at least lm g. 4. A coated pigment according to Claim 3 which has a surface area no more than 10 greater than the surface area of the base pigment. 5. A rutile TiO2 pigment having a coating which comprises a polymeric amine metallate of the general formula I or II in Claim 1, the coating being present in an amount of from. 0.17 to 2 calculated as metal oxide and based on the weight of the rutile TiO2. 6. A pigment according to any one of the preceding cliams wherein R in the general formula I or II is an alkylene radical of 2 to 6 carbon atoms. 7. A process for preparing a pigment coated With a polymeric amine metallate which comprises contacting the pigment with a polyinrjric amine metal late of the general formula I or II in Claim 1 or the precursors thereof and exposing the pigment and amine metallate G the precursors thereof to a temperature uf from 50 350 C. 8. A process according to Claim 7, wherein R is an alkylene radical of 2 carbon atoms and M is a aluminum. 9. A process according to Claim 7 or Claim 8, wherein a precursor of the polyme is amine metallate is aluminum isopropoxide and this is present in stoichiometric excess with respect to the amine. 10. A process according to any one of Claims 7 to 9, wherein the pigment is coated with the polymeric amine metallate by mixing the precursors of the polymeric amine metallate with the pigment in a fluid energy mill at a temperature of from 150 350 C to polymerize said precursors and attach the polymer formed to the substrate pigment. 11. A process according to any one of Claims 7 to 10 wherein the pigment is coated with the polymeric amine metal late by mixing said polymer with the pigment in a fluid energy mill in the presence of steam at a temperature of from 150 3500C. 12. A surface coating composition which comprises a continuous phase containing a film forming polymer and a pigment disoer dtherein, the pigment comprising a coated pigment as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 6.

## Description
PIGMENTS HAVING POLY1ZERIC AMINE BSETALI.ATE COATINGS ANDPROCESS FOR THE PREPARATION OF COATED PIGMENTS This invention relates to a pigment substrate coated with a polymeric amine metal late and a process for preparing such coated substrates. More specifically, this invention relates to the preparation of a pigment having a coating of polymeric amine zinzate or aluminate. Triethanolamine aluminate TEAAL in monomeric form is disclosed in U.S. Patent 2,985,685. A process for preparing TEAAL and the use of it as an ester redistribution catalyst is also disclosed. In the field of pigments, the application of coatings of various metal oxides, including alumina, toTiO2 in order to modify the properties of the pigment is known. The present invention is based on the discovery that coating of pigments with certain polymeric amine metallates can modify the properties of the pigment in advantageous ways. According to the present invention, there is provided a pigment having a coating which comprises a polymeric a nine metal late. of the general formulaEMI2.1 where R is an al1Xylene radical of from 1 6 carbon atolls, n is an integer of 4 6, M is aluminum or zinc and q is 1 when M is aluminum and q is 3 2 when M is zinc or a polymeric amine metallate of the general formulaEMI2.2 where p is an integer from 1 5 and n, q, M and R are as defined above, the coating being present in an amount sufficient to enhance the gloss of the uncoated pigment and in an amount of not more than 2 by weight calculated as metal oxide and based on the weight of the base pigment. The invention includes a process for the prepara tion of a coated pigment which comprises contacting the pigment with a polymeric amine metallate of the general formula I or II as set forth above or the precursors thereof and exposing the pigment and amine metallate or precursors thereof to a temperature of from 500 to 3900C. The polymeric amine metallates are prepared by reacting an aluminum or zinc compound with the appropriate amine. The polymer is formed when the metallate is formed. The amine metallates will polymerize very readily under the conditions prevailing during the reaction of the amines with the aluminum or zinc compounds. The polymerization is slow at room temperature amd much faster, e.g., at 80 C. The amine metallates are conveniently prepared by reacting aluminum isopropoxide or a zinc compound with an alkanolamine corresponding to the desired ester. U.S.Patent 2,985,685 describes such preparation where the metal is aluminum. Aluminum isopropciide AIPO , A1 OCH CH3 2 3, is a white solid with a melting point of 1180C. It is soluble in alcohols and hydrocarbons. It can be hNdrolyzed in alumina bydrazes or converted to alumina on further heating. It is produced commercially from the reaction of isopropyl alcohol and Al under reflux conditions. The zinc compounds employed in preparing the amine zincates include zinc acetate, zinc isopropoxide and zinc alcoholate wherein the alcohol radical has 1 3 carbon atoms. Representative examples of such zinc compounds include zinc isopropoxide, zinc acetate, zinc ethanolate, zinc propionate, etc. The preferred zinc compound is zinc acetate. The alkanolamines which ,,are reacted with the zinc or aluminum compound are of the general formulaeEMI3.1 where R is 1 6 carbon atoms and p is an integer of 1 5.Preferably, R is 2 to 6 carbon atoms. Representative examples of the alkanolamines used in the preparation of the coated pigments of the present invention include triethanolamine referred to herein as TEA , tripropanolamine, triisopropanolamine and N,N,N ,N tetrakis 2 hydroxypropylethylenediamine referred to herein in uadrol . Polymeric triethanolamine aluminate TtAAL is one of the preferred coating materials and can be prepared by reacting a mixture of TEA and AIPO in dry toluene, refluxing for one hour under N2, stripping off the isopropyl alcohol generated, cooling the toluene TEAAL and filtering. The product is a white powder. The following equations illustrate the reaction EMI4.1 tb zCH2CH20H SEP oCHH3 SEP CH2CHi o SEP SEP . tb N SEP CH.2CH2OH SEP SEP A1 SEP CH22CH22 SEP tb SEP CH2CH2OH SEP L SEP CH3 tb SEP n tb SEP TEA SEP 2,IPO SEP SEP TEAAL tb SEP H tb SEP .1 tb SEP 39H3 C, CH3 tb SEP OH tb TEA 3 2 Zn Ac 2 triethanolamine zincate 3HAc or 3 2 Zn propionate 21 Among the preferred precursors of the polymeric amines are TEA and AIPO. The coatings applied to the pigment substrate will normally constitute at lea about 0.17 calculated as metal oxide and based on the weight of the pigment substrate.Thus, for example, in the case of the above two precursors, when the stoichiometric amount of AIPO may be reacted with the TEA and the amount of reactants employed will be such that the total Al2O3 in the coating is 0.17 by weight based on the substrate.However, more than the stoichiometric amount of AIPO is preferred Polymeric Quadrol aluminate may be prepared by dissolving Quadrol AlPO in toluene, refluxing or one hour under N2, stripping off the isopropyl alcohol, and cooling and filtering. It is a glassylike crystal line compound. Polymeric Quadrol aluminate is formed by the reacticn between Quadrol and AIPO.EMI5.1 tb SEP H SEP H tb SEP 0 SEP 0 tb CH3C C, SEP ,CH2C Cy SEP P tb SEP H SEP CH SEP Th SEP H SEP I tb SEP SEP NCHzCH2N SEP H SEP Al O CH tb SEP CH3C CH2 SEP CH2C CH3 SEP L SEP 3 SEP 3 tb EI SEP H tb SEP Quadrol SEP AIPO tb SEP OH SEP O SEP 1 tb SEP CH, C CII,CH2 C CH, tb SEP H SEP NCH2CH2N SEP SEP H tb SEP H, SEP 22CH SEP H, tb SEP CH3 C1 CH2 SEP CH2 C CH3 tb SEP O SEP SEP A1 SEP o SEP t SEP 0 tb SEP I tb SEP Quadrol SEP alurinate tb Quadrol 2Zn Ac 2 Quadrol 2Zn 4HAc. Quadrol zincate The product of Quadrol and AIPO, namely,Quadrol aluminte, like the TEAAL is readily p lyme ized. Polymer Quadrol aluminate forms at the conditions under which the Quadrol and the AIPO react. The polymeric amine metallate coating can be achieved by coating a substrate directly with said polymeric coating under conditions described herein or it may be achieved in situ by coating the substrate with the precursors of the polymeric amine metallate. What is meant by the precursors of tie polymeric amine metallates is the amine and the aluminum or zinc compound, e.g., AIPO and TEA or AIPO and Quadrol. The conditions for attaching the polymer or the product of the precursors of this invention to form the stibsti ate are cDnvenienlJy present in a fluid energy mill.However, any apparatus may be used for coxing a substrate as long as the conditions are similar to those present in the fluid energy mill. Particular fluid energy mills that can be used co carry out the present invention are described in U.S. Patents 2,032,827 3,462,086 3,726,484 and 3,840,188 which are hereby incorporated by reference.Such mills are normally used to simultaneously dry and grind pulverulent solids. Superheated steam at temperatures of from l50 3500C can be used to attach the polymeric amine to the substrate in the fluid energy mill. However, the substrate may be coated with the polymeric amine at temperatures of from 50 350 C. A temperature of 200 25O0C is preferred when a fluid energy mill is used. The invention is especially useful in the coating of inorganic oxide pigments, quinacridone pigments and metal phthalocyanines. For example, in the preparation ofTiO2 with the polymeric amine coating a surprisingly higher gloss result than where the coating is alumina. Even higher results of gloss are obtained when sufficientAIPO is used to gve a total of at leas 0.5 by weight of A1203 in the coating based on the pigment. The pigment substrates may be in particulate form or fibrous form. Particulate substrates are frangible particles and aggregates of particles that are not frangible.Fibrous substrates include fibrous TiO2. In a fluid energy m particles of the particulate substrate are conveyed in a plurality of streams from jets by a gaseous fluid such as super heated steam into the outer portion of an inwardly spiraling vortex at high velocity and in a manner which will maintain the vortex at a high rotative sped and a relatively small inward speed to cause the pigment particles to rub or strike against each other or against breaker plates within the mlll. Tie super heated steam causes the polymer to become tasky and thus become attached to the particulate substrate. The particulate particles become desirably surface coated with the polymer and alumina that was formed in situ by the steam. The preferred condItions Gf tis invention involve the use c excess AIPO. The steam hydrolyzes this excess AIPO to form an extremely fine particulate alumina. This alumina is embeded in the tacky polymer when exposed to superheated steam of from 150 3500C. The polymeric amino metallates may be attached to the substrate by dissolving the polymeric amine metallate in a solvent and coating the substrate with this dissolved metallate. In this method, it is not necessary to use superheated steam. Merely eva porating the solvent is sufficient to attach the poly mer to the substrate. Thus, generally a temperature of from 50 3500C can be used in the process of this invention. In this method of operation, small amounts of water are required to hydrolyze any excess AIPO to alumina.EXAMPLES The Examples that follow further illustrate the invention.Example 1 Best Mode 3632 Grams of rutile TiO2 pigment were blended with 71 g of aluminum isopropoxide dissolved in 200 cc of isopropyl alcohol at a temperature of 500C for 1 hour in a Patterson Kelley Model LB 7280 Liquid Solids Blender.This was followed by 30 minutes of blending with a solution of 15 g of triethanolamine dissolved in 100 cc of isopropyl alcohol. The blended pigment TEAlAIPO system was dried for 12 hours at 110 C to remove the alcohol. As a control, 3.63 Kg of rutile TiO2 pigment was blended with 15 g of triethanolamine dissolved in 100 cc of isopropyl alcohol for 30 minutes and dries for 12 hours at 110 C. Both the TiO2 TEA AIPO and the control were steam treated in an 8 20.3 cms fluid energy mill operated at 550 F 2880C at a steam pigr ent ratio of 3 1 and tbe products evaluated in an alkyd paint system. Surface Area Relative m2 g 30J Gloss Hiding Std with 3 alumina 10 69 100 Zx 1 0.5 Al2O3 6.2 80 109 based on AIgO Control 5.5 68 95Example 2 3632 Grazes of TiO2 pigment were blended with 15 g of TEA dissolved in 50 cc of isopropyl alcohol in a Patterson Kelley Model LB 7280 Liquid Solids Blender for 30 minutes. 71 Grams of AIPO dissolved in 150 cc of isopropyl alcohol are added to the blender. After an additional 30 minute.0 of blending, the pigment TEA AIPO was placed in a tray, dried free of alcohol, sieved and fluid energy milled in all 8 20.3 cs fluid energy mill at a ratio of steam to pigment of 3 1. The total alumina as A1203 in the coating based on the pigment was 0.5 by weight. The coating was polymerized TEAL with an average molecular weight of 840 and consisted cf.17.3 g of TEAAL and 12.5 g of A1203. The data obtained is summarized in the table below.Example 3 The procedure of Example 2 was followed except that 142 g of AIPO in 300 cc of isopropyl alcohol were used and the alumina as A1203 was 1 by weight based on the pigment. The polymerized coating was 17.3 g of TEAAL and 29.9 g of A1203. The data obtained is summarized in the table below. Example 4 The procedure of Example 2 was followed except that 284 g of AIPO and 600 cc of i. opropyl alcohol were used and the aumina as Al203 was 2 by weight based on the pigment. The polymerized coating was 17.3 g TEAAL and 64.6 g of A12O3. The dAta obtained is summarized in the table below.Example 5 The procedure of Example 2 was followed ex cept that 30 g of zinc acetate was substituted for theAIPO in the form of a 25 by weight aqueous solution and the TEA was dissolved in 50 cc of water. The Zn as ZnO was 0.3 by weight based on the pigment. The polymerized coating was 21 g triethanolamine zincate. The data obtained is summarized in the table below.Example 6 The procedure of Example 2 was followed except that 21.9 g of Quadrol was substituted for theTEA and 142 g of AIPO were used. The alumina in the coating as A1203 was 1 by weight based on the pigment.The coating was 23.8 g of Quadrol aluminate and 31 g of Al2O3. The data obtained is summarize in the table below.Example 7 The procedure of Example 2 was followed e, cept that 21.9 g of Quadrol was substituted for theTEA, 50 cc of water were used to dissolve the Quadrol and 33 g of zinc acetate were used in place of AIPO and made into a 25 solution in water. The polymeric coating was 31.4 g of Quadrol zincate. The data obtained is summarized in th tab below. Surface Area Relative Example ê g 30J Gloss Hiding 2 6.2 ao 109 3 t.6 80 106 4 12.7 78 109 5 4.9 78 6 6.4 80 106 7 73 100 Surface area by the standard 8.E.T. method.Examples 8 11 The procedures of Examples 2 or 5 were followed depending on whether AIPO or zinc acetate was used with the amounts indicated below Mental Oxide in TiO2 Quadrol TEA AIPO Zn Ac 2 Polymeric Examples grams grams grams grams grams Coating 8 3632 35 24.6 1 9 3632 30 61 1 10 3632 22.5 50 1 11 3632 29.2 33.3 1 The coated TiO was dispersed in the plastic indicated below and the data obtained is shown below Flexible Vinvl Chloride Polvmer Tinting Yellowness Examples Strength Brightness Index 8 101.8 89.3 6.9 9 102.4 89.7 6.1 10 100 89.7 5.7 11 101.2 88.9 6.0 Control 99 88.0 5.3 Polyethylene Examples Brightness Yellowness Index 8 90.2 4.7 9 90.4 2.8 10 90.2 2.7 11 89.4 3.4 Control 89.4 3.3Brightness is the Green Filter Reflectance. YellownessIndex is the Red Filter Reflectance Blue Filter Reflectance divided by Green Filter Reflectance times 100 as determined by using a Hunter reflectometer. 30J Gloss was determined in the following manner A starting composition or mill base was prepared by manually mixing 387.0 g of the TiO2 pigment to be tested with 149.6 g of an alkyd resin a commercial resin sold by Celanese Coatings Co. under the name Syntex 3145, 60 N.V. , 9.4 g of butanol and 79.0 g of a commercially available aromatic solvent sold by Esso Standard Oil under the name Xylol . The mixture was ten placed in a container, inserted in a machine equipped with a sand grinding disc and 700 g of sand were added at a rotation speed.of 500 rpm.After adding all the sand, grinding was continued for 5 minutes at 2750 rpm. The mill base was isolated from the sand by filtration through coarse and fine strainers. The mill base was reduced by mixing 100 g of the mill base with 1.4 g of a commercially available aromatic solvent Xylol , 71.8 g of alkyd resin Syntex 3145 , 38.5 g of a 55 solids cros.slinking melamine resin a commercial resin sold by AmericanCyanamid under the name Cyrael11 248 8 , 12.0 g of naphtha and 1.0 g of butanoi. The resultant mixture constituted the finished paint formulation. In order to prepare the paint for spraying, additional Xylol was addeç . to a riven weight of the paint so that 50 ml flowed though a 10 F viscosity cup in 16 seconds, The reduced paint was sprayed onto an aluminum panel to visual hiding, i.e., a film thickness of about 1.2 mils. The panel was flashed or allowed to stand for 10 minutes at room temperature to allow the volatile components to evaporate and was the baked for 45 minutes t 1490C. The panels were allowed to cool, then placed on a gloss meter set at an angle of 200 and the gloss was read directly from the gloss meter. The polymeric amine metallate coatings of this invention give the pigment substrate unusual and unexpected properties. Pigments coated with said polymeric metallates displayed improved gloss in paint stems and improved dispersibility in plastics.INDUSTRIAL APPLICABILITY The polymeric amine metallates are useful in industry to enhance properties of the coated substrateFor example coated TiO2 has improved glows in paint systems and better dispersibility in plastics.