# AN ELECTRO PNEUMATIC PROPORTIONAL VALVE

## Claims
1. Elektrisch betätigtes Proportionalventil mit einem eine innere Kammer 36, 38 bildenden Gehäuse 30, 32 , das einen Einlaßkanal 42 zum Anschluß an ein Druckmittel, einen Auslaßkanal 40 und einen Entlastungskanal 56 aufweist, mit einem in der inneren Kammer 36, 38 angeordneten Kolben 48 , der aus einer ersten Stellung durch einen auf eine Kolbenseite wirkenden Druck verschiebbar ist, mit ersten Ventilmitteln 45, 50 , die durch den Kolben 48 in seiner ersten Stellung geöffnet werden, um den Auslaßkanal 40 mit dem Entlastungskanal 56 zu verbinden, und die durch den aus der ersten Stellung verschobenen Kolben 48 geschlossen werden, und mit zweiten Ventilmitteln 34, 50 , die durch den Kolben 48 in seiner ersten Stellung geschlossen und durch den aus der ersten Stellung verschobenen Kolben geöffnet werden, um den Auslaßkanal 40 mit dem Einlaßkanal 42 zu verbinden, wobei im offenen Zustand der zweiten Ventilmittel Strömungsmitteldruck auf die der erstgenannten Kolbenseite gegenüberliegende Seite des Kolbens 48 wirkt, um die Stellung des Kolbens 48 derart einzustellen, daß der Strömungsmitteldruck am Auslaßkanal 40 proportional zu dem auf die erstgenannte Kolbenseite wirkenden Druck ist, wobei das elektrisch betätigte Proportionalventil ein erstes und ein zweites elektrisch betätigtes Vorsteuermittel 66, 68 aufweist, dadurch gekennzeichnet, daß die Vorsteuermittel 66, 68 in komplementärer Weise so arbeiten, daß das mit einer Entlüftungsöffnung verbundene zweite Ventilmittel 68 geschlossen ist, wenn das mit dem Druckmittel beaufschlagte erste Ventilmittel 66 offen ist und daß das zweite Ventilmittel 68 geöffnet ist, wenn das erste Ventilmittel 66 geschlossen ist, wobei das erste und zweite Ventilmittel 66, 68 auf einen Impulszug sequentiell erzeugter elektrischer Impulse vorbestimmter Breite ansprechen, um den Strömungsmitteldruck auf die erstgenannte Seite des Kolbens 48 zu führen, wobei dieser Druck proportional zur Breite der einzelnen elektrischen Impulse des Impulszuges ist.

## Description
The disclosed invention is related to the inventions disclosed in US Patents No. 4,624,336 and 4,584,488. The invention is related to electrically actuated valves and in particular to an electrically actuated pneumatic proportional valve according to the preamble of claim 1 and disclosed in DE A 32 05 228. Electrically actuated to solenoid valves are well known in the art. These valves, for the most part operate in an on off mode and can be made to operate in proportional mode by actuating them with a pulse train signal in which the fluid delivery is a function of the ratio between the on and off times of the valve. These types of valves work well where the quantity of fluid is relatively small, but as quantity of delivered fluid increases, the solenoids necessarily become larger and require more electrical power for actuation. In addition, with the increase in the size of the valves, their reaction time becomes much slower, making it difficult to integrate or filter out the individual pressure pulses due to the opening and closing of the valve. Therefore the fluid flow or fluid pressure at the outlet of will vary with the frequency at which the valve is actuated. As a result, the actuator responsive to the output of the valve will not operate smoothly, but will fluctuate at the operating frequency of the valve. Another problem with the on off type valves is that the fluid pressure at the outlet of the valve will vary with the fluid consumption rate of the actuator, and are not well suited for the type of actuator which responds primarily to the fluid pressure and not the quantity of fluid flow. The present invention is a high volume electrically actuated proportional valve which overcomes the problems encountered in the prior art. The invention is related to an electricatly actuated proportional valve for outputting a fluid at a pressure proportional to an electrical signal. The valve comprises an enclosed housing, defining an internal chamber, having an inlet port, an outlet port and a vent port, a piston disposed in the internal chamber is operative to assume a first position and displaceable in response to a fluid pressure applied to one side of the piston. The valve includes first valve means opened in response to the piston being in said first position to connect the outlet port to the vent port and closed in response to the piston being displaced from said first position, and second valve means closed in response to the piston being in the first position and opened in response to the piston being displaced from the first position to connect the inlet port with the outlet port. The second valve also supplying fluid to the side of the piston opposite the one side to balance the position of the piston such that the fluid pressure at the outlet port is proportional to the fluid pressure applied to the one side. According to the present invention, the valve is characterized by the characterized portion of claim 1. One advantage of the proportional valve is that it has a high throughput and the pressure at the outlet port is proportional to at least one component of the electrical signal. Another advantage is that in the absence of an electrical signal the outlet port is connected to the vent port. Still another advantage of the proportional valve is that in the event of electric power or pneumatic failures, the valve is fail safe. These and other advantages of the electrically actuated proportional valve will become more apparent from a reading of the specification in conjunction with the drawings. Figure 1 is a cut away perspective showing the relationship of the elements of the electro pneumatic power steering system to the steering mechanism of an automotive vehicle which has a source of pressurized air not shown . As is known in the art, the vehicle s steering mechanism comprises a steering wheel 1 which is connected to a steering box 2 by a steering column 3. The steering box 2 has a Pittman arm 4 rotatably displaceable in response to the turning of the steering wheel 1. The Pittman arm 4 is connected to the front wheel s steering arm 5 by means of a tie rod 6. The steering arm 5 is connected to the steering knuckle 7 which includes the spindle or axle 8 about which the front road wheel 9 rotates. The steering knuckle 7 is pivotally mounted to the vehicle s frame through a suspension system not shown in a conventional manner. In operation, the rotation of the steering wheel 1 produces a displacement of the Pittman arm 4 by means of the steering box 2 which in turn rotatably displaces the steering arm 5 and pivots the steering knuckle 7 about a vertical axis to turn the front road wheel 9. The electro pneumatic power steering system comprises a pneumatic cylinder 10 having one end pivotally connected to a bracket 12 attached to the vehicle s frame 14. The pneumatic cylinder s push rod 16 is connected to the steering arm 5 so that extension or retraction of push rod 16 will pivot the steering knuckle 7 about its vertical axis in the same manner as the displacement by the tie rod 6 connected to the steering box s Pittman arm 4. The internal end of the push rod 16 is connected to the pneumatic cylinder s piston 18 which is displaceable to extend or retract the push rod 16 in response to the pressure differential on the opposite sides thereof. The pressure on the opposite sides of the pneumatic cylinder s piston is controlled by a pair of electro pneumatic proportional valves 20 and 22 receiving air from the vehicle s source of pressurized air. The proportional valves 20 and 22 are electrically controlled so that they complement each other, that is, when one is supplying pressurized air to one side of the piston 18, the other is exhausting the other side of the piston to the atmosphere and vice versa. The proportional valves 20 and 22, the details of which will be explained later, are electrically controlled by an electronic controller 24 in response to the signals generated by a torque sensor 26 attached to the steering column 3. The operation of the electro pneumatic power steering system is as follows When the operator turns the steering wheel 1 to affect the turning of the vehicle s front road wheels 9, a torque is generated on the steering column 3 due to the friction between the road wheels 9 and the road surface. The torque sensor 26 senses the torque applied to the steering column 3 and generates a torque signal having a polarity indicative of the direction and an amplitude indicative of the magnitude of the applied torque. The electronic controller 26 responds to the torque signal generated by the torque sensor and generates either a first pulse train activating proportional valve 20 or a second pulse train activating proportional valve 22 dependent upon polarity of the torque signal. The width pulse duration of the individual pulses in either pulse train signal is indicative of the amplitude of the torque signal above a predetermined value independent of its polarity. The electronic controller 26 will not generate a pulse train for either proportional valve when the torque signal has an amplitude of either polarity less than the predetermined value. This creates an effective dead band about the zero torque value in which the electro pneumatic power steering system does not provide any assist in turning the vehicle s road wheel preserving for the operator a normal feel of the road when only small steering corrections are required, such as during highway driving. The proportional valves 20 and 22 are designed so that in the absence of a pulse train signal, the chambers of the pneumatic cylinder to which they are connected are exhausted to the atmosphere. Therefore when the amplitude of the torque signal is below the predetermined value, and the controller is not generating either pulse train signal, the chambers on both sides of the piston 18 in the pneumatic cylinder 10 are exhausted to the atmosphere. In this state the pneumatic cylinder 10 does not offer any resistance to the steering of the vehicle s wheels via the normal steering linkage consisting of steering wheel 1, steering column 3, steering box 2, Pittman arm 4, and tie rod 6. In response to a pulse train signal from the controller 26, one of the proportional valves will close its exhaust port and supply pressurized air to the associated chamber of the pneumatic cylinder 10 which will produce a force biasing the piston 18 to move. This force is transmitted to the steering arm 5 of the steering knuckle 7 by push rod 16 and assists the driver in turning the vehicle s wheels in the desired direction. As previously discussed, the two pulse train signals are generated in the mutually exclusive such that when the controller is generating the first pulse train signal applied to proportional valve 20, the second pulse train signal applied to proportional valve 22 is effectively zero and the exhaust port of proportional valve 22 remains open, and vice versa. The pressure of air provided to the pneumatic cylinder 10 by either proportional valve 20 or 22 is proportional to the pulse widths of the individual pulses in the pulse train signal as shall be explained with reference to Figures 2 to 5. Upon completion of the turn, the torque on the steering column will return to zero, terminating the generation of pulse train signal, and the exhaust port of the activated proportional valve will open exhausting the pressurized chamber of the pneumatic cylinder. In this state, if the vehicle is moving, the toe in of the front wheels will return the wheels to their neutral position without any impedance from the electro pneumatic power steering system, otherwise the wheels will remain in their last position until the operator again applies a torque to the steering wheels. The details of the electro pneumatic proportional valves 20 and 22 are shown on Figures 2 through 5. Referring first to Figure 2, the electro pneumatic proportional valve 20 or 22 has a generally cylindrical cup shaped housing 30 and a cover 32. The housing 30 has an intermediate web 34 which divides the interior of the housing into an upper chamber 36 and a lower chamber 38. The housing 30 has an outlet port 40 which is connected to one of the chambers in the pneumatic cylinder 10 and an inlet port 42 adapted to receive pressurized air from the vehicle s source of pressurized air. The web 34 has a central aperture 44 for receiving therethrough a pintle 46 connected to a piston 48 disposed in the upper chamber 36 above the outlet port 40. The pintle 46 has a guide finger 47 which is slidably received in the bore of an exhaust cylinder 50 disposed in the lower chamber 38 below web 34. The guide finger 47, is in the form of a three pointed star, as shown in Figure 3, and allows air to flow through the exhaust cylinder when pintle 46 is partially extracted as shown on Figure 5. The exhaust cylinder 50 has an internal bore 52 and a flange portion 54. The lower portion of the exhaust cylinder 50 passes through an exhaust port 56 provided through the bottom of the housing 30 as shown, venting the internal bore 52 to the atmosphere. A resilient annular seal 60 is attached to the upper surface of the exhaust cylinder s flange portion 54 and engages the lower surface of web 34 about the periphery of central aperture 44 and the bottom of pintle 46 as shown. A resilient spring 58 disposed between the bottom of housing 30 and the lower surface of the flange portion 54 biases the exhaust cylinder 50 upwardly compressing annular seal 60 against the bottom surface of the web 34 to seal the bottom chamber 38 from the upper chamber 36. A resilient seal, such as O ring 61 is provided about the periphery of piston 48 to engage the inner surface of housing 30 pneumatically isolating the upper and lower portions of chamber 36 either side of piston 48. In a like manner a resilient seal, such as O ring 62 is provided between the exhaust cylinder 50 and the exhaust port 56 to pneumatically seal the lower chamber 38 at the point where the exhaust cylinder 50 passes through housing 30. A resilient spring 64 is disposed between the upper surface of web 34 and the lower surface of piston 48 to bias the piston 48 and pintle 46 upwardly away from the upper surface of the annular seal 60 attached to the exhaust cylinder 50 as shown in Figure 5. In the state of the proportional valve shown on Figure 5, the outlet port 40 is in direct fluid communication with the internal bore 52 and permits the proportional valve 20 to exhaust the chamber of the pneumatic cylinder 10 to which it is connected through exhaust port 56. As shown in Figure 2, two high speed electrically actuated pilot valves 66 and 68, such as disclosed in US Patent No. 4,552,311, are mounted to the cover 32 and adapted to be in communication with chamber 36 above the piston 48. Pilot valve 66 is a normally closed valve and receives pressurized air from the vehicle s source of pressurized air via input line 70. Pilot valve 68 is a normally open valve and exhausts chamber 36 via exhaust line 72. The associated pulse trian signal generated by the controller 24 is connected in common to both pilot valves 66 and 68 by electrical lead 74. Pilot valve 66 opens and pilot valve 68 closed in response to the individual pulses of the pulse train signal pressurizing the chamber 36 above the piston 48 causing the piston descend against the force of spring 64 as shown in Figure 4. When the piston 48 is displaced downwardly, the pintle 46 engages the upper surface of annular seal 60 blocking the exhaust cylinder s bore 52 as shown in Figure 2. Continued descent of the pintle 46 unseats the annular seal 60 from the web 34 as shown in Figure 4. The unseating of the annular seal 60 from web 34 opens an air path between the upper and lower chambers through aperture 44 permitting the pressurized air input to the lower chamber 38 through inlet port 42 to flow into the upper chamber 36 and out the outlet port 40 to the pneumatic cylinder 10. The portion of the upper chamber 36 above the piston 48 acts as pressure integrator such that the pressure applied to piston 48 is a function of the ON and OFF times of pilot valves 66 and 68. Once the annular seal 60 is displaced from web 34, the pressurized air from the lower chamber 36 will flow into the upper chamber 36 below the piston 48 producing a force urging the piston 48 upward until the forces acting on the opposite sides of piston 48 are equal. The piston will then maintain this position and the pressure of the air exiting the outlet port 40 will be approximately equal to the pressure of the air above the piston 48 minus the force exerted by spring 64. The pressure above the piston 48, as previously discussed is a function of the pulse width or duration of the pulses in the pulse train generated by controller 24. The operation of the proportional valve is as follows In its unactivated state, as shown in Figure 5, spring 58 urges the exhaust cylinder upward causing annular seal 60 to engage the lower surface of the web 34 occluding aperture 44 and isolating the upper chamber 36 from the pressurized air received at the inlet port 42. Simultaneously spring 64 urges piston 48 upward unseating the pintle 46 from the annular seal 60 opening a fluid passageway between the lower portion of chamber 36 below piston 48 and the exhaust cylinder s internal bore 52. Since the outlet port 40 connects with the lower portion of chamber 36, the outlet 40 is vented to the atmosphere through the exhaust cylinder s internal bore 52. Upon the initial activation of the pilot valves 66 and 68 by a pulse train signal generated by the controller 24, the upper portion of chamber 36 above piston 48 is pressurized causing piston 48 and pintle 46 to descend against the force of spring 64. At a predetermined pressure determined by the spring rate of spring 64 the pintle 46 will engage the annular seal 60 and occlude the exhaust port 52 as shown in Figure 2. In this state the pintle has not descended far enough to unseat the annular seal 60 from web 34 and the flow of pressurized air to the outlet port 40 remains blocked. This initial movement of the piston 48 without producing an output at the outlet port constitutes a second deadband about the zero torque level which is added to the first deadband generated by the controller 24. It is recognized that by appropriate selection of the spring rate of spring 64 the deadband generated in the controller 24 may be eliminated, however, it is preferred that some latitude in adjusting the width of the deadband remain in the controller 24 to accommodate the operator s preference and to compensate for mechanical variations in the spring rate of spring 64. Increasing the pressure in the portion of chamber 36 above piston 48 so that it exceeds the predetermined pressure will cause the piston 48 to descend and displace the annular seal 60 from the lower surface of web 34 allowing the pressurized air from the lower chamber 38 to flow into the upper chamber 36 and out the outlet port 40 as shown in Figure 4. The air pressure in the lower portion of chamber 36 and output at outlet port 40 is equal to the pressure above piston 48 minus the force exerted by spring 64. Thereafter the air pressure at outlet port 40 will be proportional to the air pressure above piston 48 which is determined by the width of the pulses in the pulse train applied to pilot valves 66 and 68. In an alternate embodiment, spring 64 may be eliminated and the piston 48 will be raised to the position shown on Figure 5 due to the residual pressure in cylinder 10 after the pulse train signal is terminated which vents the portion of chamber 36 above piston 48 to the atmosphere. It is not necessary that pilot valve 68 be a normally open valve, but alternatively it may be a normally closed valve identical to pilot valve 66. Under these conditions, the controller is required to generate two pulse train signals for each proportional valve, one being the logical complement of the other. One of the pulse train signals is then applied to pilot valve 66 and its complement applied to pilot valve 68. However, it is preferred that pilot valve 68 be a normally open valve for safety reasons. In the event of a power failure, the normally open pilot valve will vent the portion of chamber 36 above the piston causing the proportional valve to assume the initial state in which the outlet port 40 is vented to the atmosphere. This safety feature will prevent the pneumatic cylinder from being locked in any one position and will enable the vehicle operator to maintain control of the vehicle through the mechanical steering linkages in the event of either an electrical or pneumatical power failure. In an alternate embodiment of the proportional valve 20 or 22 shown on Figure 4 the pilot valves 66 and 68 are housed in an auxiliary housing 76 fixedly attached to cover 32 by means of screws or similar fasteners not shown . The auxiliary housing 76 has a blind bore 78 which connects with chamber 36 through a mating aperture 80 formed through the cover 32. Passageways extending radially from blind bore 78 connect the active ends of the pilot valves 66 and 68 with blind bore 78 and chamber 36 above piston. Plates 82 and 84 fixedly attached to auxiliary housing 76 using screws not shown or other appropriate fasteners captivates the pilot valves 66 and 68 in housing 76. The operation of the alternate embodiment shown on Figure 4 is identical to the operation of the embodiment shown on Figure 2 and need not be repeated for an understanding of the invention. Figure 6 is an electro pneumatic block diagram of the electro pneumatic power steering system. Referring to Figure 6, the vehicle s engine 100 drives a pneumatic pump 102 which pressurizes a pneumatic or air accumulator 104 which constitutes the vehicle s source of pressurized air referred to previously. The output of the accumulator 104 is connected to inlets 42 and 242 of the proportional valves 20 and 22 respectively and to the inlets of pilot valves 66 and 266 which are the pilot valves associated with proportional valves 20 and 22 respectively. In this explanation the elements associated with proportional valve 22 are prefixed with the numeral 2, to distinguish them from the identical elements of proportional valve 20. For example, pilot valve 66 associated with proportional valve 22 is identifed by the reference numeral 266 while the identical pilot valve associated with proportional valve 20 is identifed with numeral 66 as shown in Figure 2. The outlet 40 of proportional valve 20 is connected to one end of pneumatic cylinder 10 while the outlet 240 of proportional valve 22 is connected to the other end of pneumatic cylinder 10 on opposite sides of piston 18. The torque sensor 26 detects the torque applied to the vehicles steering column 3 by the turning of steering wheel 1 and generates a torque signal. This torque signal is transmitted to controller 24 which generates one of a pair of pulse train signals indicative of the direction and magnitude of the detected torque. The first pulse train signal is transmitted to the pilot valves 66 and 68 associated with proportional valve 20 via lead 106 while the second pulse train signal is transmitted to pilot valves 266 and 268 associated with proportional valve 22 via lead 108. As previously discussed proportional valves 20 and 22 pressurize one or the other end of pneumatic cylinder 10 in response to the controller 24 generating either a first or second pulse train signal to displace the pneumatic cylinder s piston 18 and push rod 16 to assist the operator in steering the vehicle. In the absence of both the first and second pulse train signals, the proportional valves 20 and 22 vent the opposite ends of pneumatic cylinder 10 to the atmosphere terminating the authority of the electro pneumatic steering system allowing the operator to steer the vehicle using only the conventional mechanical steering linkages. Figure 7 is a block diagram of controller 24. Referring to Figure 7, the torque sensor 26 generates a torque signal having a polarity indicative of the direction of the applied torque and an amplitude indicative of the magnitude. This torque signal is amplified by amplifier 300 to generate an amplified torque signal. The output of amplifier 300 is then summed with an offset bias signal generated by Offset Bias Generator 302 to generate a biased torque signal 303 in which the midscale value of the biased torque signal corresponds to a zero amplitude of the torque sensor s torque signal as shown in Figure 9. The biased torque signal 303 is applied to the positive input of a first difference amplifier 304 and the negative input of a second difference amplifier 306. A Reference Generator 307 generates reference signals which are applied to the negative input of difference amplifier 304 and the positive input of difference amplifier 306. Difference amplifier 304 will only output a positive difference signal in response to a biased torque signal having a value greater than the reference signal generated by Reference Signal Generator 307 while difference amplifier 306 will only generate a positive difference signal when the biased torque signal has a value less than the reference signal. Preferably the reference signals have a value corresponding to the offset bias signal. The difference signal outputs of difference amplifiers 304 and 306 are connected to the negative inputs of comparators 308 and 310. A Saw Tooth Generator 312 generates a repetitious saw tooth wave at a predetermined frequency. The valleys of the saw tooth wave are clipped by a Clipping Amplifier 316 to have a minimum value determined by a signal generated by a Dead Band Bias Generator 314 to generate a clipped saw tooth wave 316 as shown on Figure 10b. The clipped saw tooth wave 316 is received at the positive inputs of comparators 308 and 310. Comparator 308 and 310 will generate a positive signal as long as the value of the difference signal output from their associated difference amplifiers 304 and 306 respectively is less than the instantaneous value of the clipped saw tooth wave 316 and will generate a pulse train signal in which the pulse width of the individual pulses 322 are inversely proportional to the magnitude of the difference signal output from its associated difference amplifier as shown on Figure 10c. The outputs of Comparators 308 and 310 are connected to Power Amplifiers 318 and 320 which invert the output of Comparator 308 and 310 to generate the first and second pulse train signals respectively in which the pulse widths of the individual pulses 224 are proportional to the magnitude of the torque signals as shown in Figure 10d. Since the valleys of the saw tooth wave are clipped by the signal from the Dead Band Bias Generator 314 such that the valleys of the saw tooth wave have a predetermined minimum positive voltage, torque signals output from difference amplifiers 304 and 306 having a value less than this predetermined value will cause comparator 308 or 310 to generate a continuous positive output signal which when inverted by the Power Amplifiers 312 and 314 is a null signal. The clipping of the valleys the saw tooth wave therefore provides the desired dead band about the zero torque value. The circuit diagram of the controller 24 is shown on Figure 8. Referring to Figure 8, the controller circuit comprises a Timer 400 such as National Semiconductor LM 555 having it s output connected to ground by means of a pair of resistors 402 and 404. The junction between resistors 402 and 404 is connected to the base of a transistor 406 having its collector connected to a regulated positive supply of electrical power designated V Transistor 412 has its emitter connected to V The torque sensor 26, such as, a Wheatstone bridge type strain gauge, is connected to operational amplifier 430 such as Analog Device AD521. A potentiometer 432 may be connected across alternate inputs to operational amplifier 430 to adjust the gain of this type of amplifier as is known in the art. In a similar manner potentiometer 433 may be connected to alternate inputs of Operational Amplifier 430 to trim the bias potential of its output signal. The output of operational amplifier 430 is connected to a positive input of operational amplifier 434 which has its output connected back to its negative input through resistance 436. The output of operational amplifier 434 is also connected to the positive input of operational amplifier 438 through resistor 440 and to the negative input of operational amplifier 442 through a resistor 444. Operational amplifiers 438 and 442 are difference amplifier 304 and 306 respectively shown in Figure 7. Operational amplifier 446 has its positive input connected to the junction of serial connected resistors 448 and 450 forming a voltage divider between V Operational amplifier 438 has its negative input connected to the junction between serially connected resistors 454 and 456 through resistor 458. Resistors 454 and 456 form a voltage divider between V Operational amplifier 442 has its positive input connected to the junction between serially connected resistors 464 and 466 which form a voltage divider between V The positive inputs of comparators 308 and 310 are connected to the one electrode of capacitance 410 which is charged by the constant current source. The output of comparator 308 is connected to the gate of a p type MOSFET transistor 472 such as International Rectifier IRF9530 having its drain connected to solenoid coil 474 of Pilot valve 20 and its source connected to B . A diode 476 is connected back to back with Zener diode 486 between the source and drain electrode of transistor 472 and ground to protect transistor 472 from the inductive flyback of solenoid coil 474 when transistor 472 is turned off. The output of comparator 462 is also connected to B through resistor 478. In a like manner comparator 310 has its output connected to the gate of p type MOSFET transistor 480 and to B through resistor 482. The drain of MOSFET transistor is connected to the solenoid coil 484 of Pilot valve 22 and its source is connected B . Diode 488 is connected back to back with a Zener diode 490 between the drain electrode of transistor 480 and ground to protect it from the inductive flyback of solenoid coil 484 when transistor 480 is turned off. FET transistor 472 constitute inverter amplifier 318 shown on Figure 7 while FET transistor 480 constitutes inverter amplifier 320. The operation of the controller is as follows Timer 400 sequentially generates positive pulses approximately 60 milliseconds in duration followed by a null for approximately 1 millisecond as shown on Figure 10a. The positive pulses are applied to the base of transistor 406 causing it to be conductive and rendering transistor 408 non conductive. When transistor 408 is non conductive, capacitor 410 is charged by the constant current source through transistor 412. At the end of each pulse generated by the Timer 400, its output goes to zero biasing transistor 406 off rendering transistor 408 conductive and discharging capacitance 410 to a voltage determined by the potential applied to the positive input of operational amplifier 416 from the wiper contact of potentiometer 418. Operational amplifier 416 is connected to act as a voltage follower and determines the minimum discharge voltage of capacitor 410 during this period. Operational amplifier 416, potentiometer 418 and resistors 414 and 420 constitute the Dead Band Generator 302 shown on Figure 7. The capacitor 410 is charged by the constant current source during each sequential positive pulse output from Timer 400 to generate the saw tooth wave 316 as shown on Figure 10b. Transistors 406 and 408 effectively comprise clipping amplifier 318 of Figure 7 limiting the minimum value of the saw tooth wave to the potential at the wiper of potentiometer 418. The Timer 400, constant current source comprising transistor 412 and operational amplifier 424 and capacitor 410 constitute the Saw Tooth Generator 312 shown on Figure 7. The saw tooth wave 316 generated across capacitor 410 is applied to the positive inputs of comparators 308 and 310. The torque signal generated by torque sensor 26 is amplified by operational amplifiers 430 and 436 which constitute amplifier 300 shown in Figure 7. Operational amplifier 446 functions as a voltage follower which generates a voltage biasing the amplified torque signal generated by the operational amplifiers 430 and 434 about a voltage determined by resistors 448 and 450. Preferably, the resistance values of resistors 448 and 450 are equal so that the voltage at the output of operational amplifier 446 is equal to 1 2 V The amplified torque signal generated by operational amplifier 434 is further amplified by operational amplifier 438 and 442 which act as difference amplifiers 304 and 306 shown on Figure 7. Operational amplifier 438 generates a positive difference signal in response to the biased torque signal exceeding the potential applied to its negative input determined by resistors 454 and 456. Preferably the resistance valves of resistors 454 and 456 are equal so that the potential applied to the negative input of operational amplifier is approximately 1 2 V In contrast, the biased torque signal applied to the negative input of operational amplifier 442 generates a positive difference signal when the amplitude of the biased torque signal is less than the potential applied to its positive input determined by resistors 464 and 466. Preferably the resistance values of resistors 464 and 466 are selected so that the potential applied to the positive input of operational amplifier is 1 4 V The output of operational amplifier 438 is a positive difference signal having an amplitude proportional to the amplitude of a torque signal when the torque signal generated by the torque sensor 26 has a positive polarity. Similarly the output of operational amplifer 442 is a positive difference signal having an amplitude proportional to the amplitude of the torque signal when the torque signal generated by the torque sensor 26 has a negative polarity. As previously described the saw tooth wave generated across capacitor 410 is applied to the positive inputs to comparators 308 and 310 while the difference signals generated by operational amplifiers 438 and 442 are applied to the negative inputs of comparators 308 and 310 respectively. When the instantaneous value of the saw tooth wave applied to the positive inputs of comparators 308 and 310 is less than the torque signals applied to their respective negative inputs as shown on Figure 10b, the output of the comparators 462 and 468 apply a ground potential to the gates of FET transistors 472 and 480 respectively as shown on Figure 10c. This ground potential renders FET transistors 472 and 480 conductive to produce the pulse train signal shown on Figure 10d activating their associated pilot valve. When the instantaneous value of the saw tooth wave exceeds the value of the difference signal applied to the respective negative inputs of comparators 308 or 310, the outputs of the comparators apply a B potential to the gates of their respective FET transistors 472 or 480 which render them non conductive thereby deactivating the solenoids of their associated pilot valves. As previously indicated, the saw tooth wave is clipped by transistor 408 so that its minimum value is a predetermined positive potential as shown on Figure 10b, therefore the FET transistors 472 or 480 will only be turned on or made conductive when the difference signal has a potential greater than this predetermined positive potential. Otherwise for difference signals having a potential less than the predetermined potential the value of the saw tooth wave, the saw tooth wave will always be greater than the value of the difference signal. For these values Comparators 308 and 310 will generate a continuous positive signal and the FET transistors 472 and 480 will remain non conductive. This creates a deadband about the zero torque value in which the proportional valves 20 and 22 remain inactive and both ends of the pneumatic cylinder 10 are vented to the atmosphere. The width of the deadband may be adjusted by the operator by potentiometer 418 which controls the potential to which capacitor 410 is discharged or clipped. Having described the invention in detail, it is acknowledged that others skilled in the art may modify or make other changes to the electro pneumatic valve shown in the drawings and described in the specification without departing from the spirit of the invention, as set forth in the appended claims.