# AMINO THIOL PEPTIDES

## Claims
Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragsstaaten BE CH DE FR GB IT LI LU NL SE

## Description
Compounds having the formula and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, possess aminopeptidase inhibitory activity, and can be used as analgesics. In formula I, and throughout the specification, the symbols are as defined below. R₁ and R₂ are each independently hydrogen, alkyl, carboxyalkyl, halo substituted alkyl, hydroxyalkyl, aminoalkyl, mercaptoalkyl, alkylthioalkyl, cycloalkyl alkyl, heteroaryl alkyl, arylalkyl, carbamoylalkyl, guanidinylalkyl, or heteroaryl wherein n₆ is an integer of 2 to 15 The terms alkyl and alkoxy , as used throughout the specification either individually or as part of a larger group, refer to straight and branched chain groups having 1 to 7 carbon atoms. The term halo substituted alkyl , as used throughout the specification either individually or as part of a larger group, refers to alkyl groups in which one, or more, hydrogens have been replaced by chloro, bromo or fluoro groups. Exemplary groups are trifluoromethyl, which is preferred, pentafluoroethyl, 2,2,2 trichloroethyl, chloromethyl and bromomethyl. The term cycloalkyl , as used throughout the specification either individually or as part of a larger group, refers to cycloalkyl groups having 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7 carbon atoms. The term substituted alkyl , as used throughout the specification, either individually or as part of a larger group, refers to alkyl groups substituted with one, or more preferably one , hydroxy or NY₃Y₄ groups, wherein Y₃ and Y₄ are the same or different and each is hydrogen or alkyl, Y₃ is hydrogen and Y₄ is aryl, or Y₃ and Y₄ together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached form a heterocyclic group having the formula and A is CH Q, oxygen, or N Q, Q is hydrogen or alkyl and m is 0 or 1. The term heteroaryl , as used throughout the specification either individually or as part of a larger group, refers to 2 or 3 furanyl, 2 or 3 thienyl, 2 , 3 or 4 pyridinyl, 4 imidazolyl and 3 indolyl. The term aryl , as used throughout the specification either individually or as part of a larger group, refers to phenyl and phenyl substituted with 1, 2 or 3 alkyl, alkoxy, alkylthio, hydroxy, chlorine, bromine, fluorine, amino, alkylamino, dialkylamino, nitro or trifluoromethyl groups. The compounds of formula I, and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, can be administered to a mammalian species as an analgesic and hypotensive agent due to their ability to inhibit an enkephalin degrading aminopeptidase. It is well known that the weak and short lasting analgesic activity of endogenous enkephalins can be attributed to their rapid inactivation. Enkephalins are metabolized by several hydrolytic enzymes present in the brain 1 aminopeptidases release the Tyr¹ residue, 2 a dipeptidyl aminopeptidase releases the Tyr¹ Gly² residue and 3 two enzymes cleave the penultimate Gly³ Phe⁴ bond to release an intact dipeptide fragment, angiotensin converting enzyme, and a discrete enzyme commonly designated enkephalinase. It has been suggested that both enkephalinase and an aminopeptidase activity probably membrane bound play key roles in enkephalin metabolism. The following references are considered to be relevant whose variables are as set forth herein, for example US A 4 500 518 teaches compounds of the general formula The compounds are angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and are useful as hypotensive agents. US A 4 552 866 discloses diamino alcohols having the general formula which can be used as analgesics. The compounds of this invention inhibit the aminopeptidase activity and thus act as analgesic and hypotensive agents. Those compounds of formula I, and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, wherein R₂ is a lipophilic side chain, especially arylalkyl A compound of formula I, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can be administered to patients orally or parenterally in an effective amount within the daily dosage range of about 0.1 to about 25 milligrams of compound per kilogram of patient body weight. Administration can be once daily or in 2 to 4 divided daily doses. The compounds of this invention are preferably prepared by coupling an aldehyde having the formula with a peptide ester having the formula wherein X₁ is an amino protecting group such as Deprotection of a compound of formula IV to obtain the corresponding product of formula I wherein R₃ is other than hydroxy can be accomplished using art recognized procedures. The particular deprotection reactions used will, of course, depend on the particular protecting groups present. Those products of formula I wherein R₃ is hydroxy can be obtained from a corresponding product of formula I wherein R₃ is a cleavable carboxyl protecting group such as The aldehyde reactant of formula II can be obtained by first treating an activated form preferably a mixed anhydride of an N protected amino acid having the formula with diazomethane to yield a compound having the formula Treatment of a diazoketone of formula VI in methanol with silver benzoate and triethylamine yields a compound having the formula Treatment of a compound of formula VII with lithium diisopropylamide and a disulfide having the formula at a reduced temperature yields the corresponding compound having the formula Reduction of the esterified carboxyl group of formula IX to the corresponding alcohol having the formula can be accomplished by treating a compound of formula IX with lithium chloride and sodium borohydride. Conversion of an alcohol of formula X to the corresponding aldehyde of formula II can be accomplished by treatment with sulfur trioxide pyridine complex and dimethylsulfoxide in the presence of diisopropylethylamine. The compounds of formula I form acid addition salts with a variety of inorganic and organic acids. The pharmaceutically acceptable salts include, for example, the hydrohalides, The compounds of formula I wherein R₃ is hydroxy form basic salts with a variety of inorganic and organic bases. The pharmaceutically acceptable salts include alkali metal salts such as sodium or potassium, alkaline earth metal salts such as calcium or magnesium, and salts derived from amino acids such as arginine, lysine, etc. The salts can be prepared by reacting the acid form of the compound, In the compounds of formula I, the carbon atom to which the mercapto group is attached is asymmetric and the carbon atom to which the R₁ or R₂ substituent is attached will also be asymmetric if R₁ or R₂ is other than hydrogen. The compounds, therefore, may exist in stereoisomeric forms, and as racemic mixtures thereof. All of these are within the scope of this invention. The above described syntheses can utilize the racemate or one of the diastereomers as the starting material. When the racemic starting material is used in the synthetic procedure, the stereoisomers obtained in the product can be separated by conventional chromatographic or fractional crystallization techniques. The amino acids designated A₁, A₂, A₃, A₄ and A₅ may be in the L or D configuration. The following example is a specific embodiment of this invention. To a solution of N To a solution of S 3 diazo 2 oxo 1 phenylmethyl carbamic acid, 1,1 dimethylethyl ester 5.36 g, 18.52 mmol in methanol 50 ml was added 5.0 ml of a solution of silver benzoate 1.0 g in triethylamine 10 ml . After nitrogen evolution had ceased, an additional 0.2 ml of the silver benzoate triethylamine solution was added. After stirring for 15 minutes, the reaction mixture was treated with activated charcoal and filtered through Celite using ethyl acetate. The filtrate was concentrated at reduced pressure and the residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate and washed with water twice , 1N sodium bicarbonate twice , 1N hydrochloric acid twice , 1N sodium bicarbonate and brine. After drying over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, the solvent was removed at reduced pressure and the residue chromatographed flash, silica gel benzene isopropyl ether, 87.5 12.5 to give S 3 1,1 dimethylethoxy carbonyl Amino benzenebutanoic acid, methyl ester as a colorless solid 4.33 g α To a solution of freshly distilled diisopropylamine 2.10 ml, 15 mmol in anhydrous tetrahydrofuran 20 ml at 0 C under argon was added a hexane solution of n butyl lithium 6.10 ml of a 2.40 M solution, 14.65 mmol . After stirring at 0 C for 30 minutes, the resulting solution of lithium diisopropylamide was cooled to 78 C and a solution of S 3 1,1 dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino benzenebutanoic acid, methyl ester 2.0 g, 6.81 mmol in dry tetrahydrofuran 8 ml was added dropwise over a period of 5 minutes. After stirring at 78 C for 15 minutes, a solution of To a solution of 3S 3 1,1 dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 2 4 methoxyphenyl methyl thio benzenebutanoic acid, methyl ester 1.73 g, 3.88 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 25 ml and absolute ethanol 25 ml was added lithium chloride 0.66 g, 15.6 mmol and sodium borohydride 0.59 g, 15.6 mmol . After stirring at room temperature under argon for 24 hours, the mixture was quenched with 1N hydrochloric acid and diluted with ethyl acetate. The resulting solution was washed with water, 1N hydrochloric acid twice , 1N sodium bicarbonate, and brine. After drying over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, the solvent was removed at reduced pressure and the residue chromatographed flash, silica gel, benzene acetone, 92 8 to give the separated diastereomers of 1S 3 hydroxy 2 4 methoxyphenyl methyl thio 1 phenylmethyl propyl carbamic acid, 1,1 dimethylethyl ester as colorless solids Isomer A, 0.17 g, R A solution of pyridinium 1 sulfonate 789 mg, 3 eq and anhydrous dimethylsulfoxide 3.0 ml was stirred at room temperature under argon. After 15 minutes, a solution of 1S 3 hydroxy 2 4 methoxyphenyl methyl thio 1 phenylmethyl propyl carbamic acid, 1,1 dimethylethyl ester 690 mg, 1.65 mmol , diisopropylethylamine 1.73 ml, 6 eq and dry dichloromethane 5.0 ml was added in one portion. After 15 minutes longer, the reaction was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with water, 1N hydrochloric acid, 1N sodium bicarbonate, brine and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate. Concentration of the filtrate yielded 1S 1 formyl 4 methoxyphenyl methyl thio methyl 2 phenylethyl carbamic acid, 1,1 dimethylethyl ester as a yellow solid 610 mg 1.47 mmol R A mixture of 1S 1 formyl 4 methoxyphenyl methyl thio methyl 2 phenylethyl carbamic acid, 1,1 dimethylethyl ester 550 mg, 1.3 mmol , L phenylalanyl L leucine t butyl ester 886 mg, 2 eq , crushed 3A sieves 1.5 g and anhydrous benzene 15 ml was stirred at room temperature under argon for 105 minutes. The mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and passed through a pad of Celite to remove sieves. Concentration of the filtrate yielded a yellow oil which was dissolved in anhydrous ice cold methanol 15 ml and placed in a 0 C bath. To the solution was added sodium borohydride 100 mg, 2 eq . After 30 minutes, more sodium borohydride 100 mg was added. After 30 minutes, the reaction mixture was quenched with 1N hydrochloric acid 10 ml , diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with water twice , 1N hydrochloric acid twice , 1N sodium bicarbonate, brine and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate. Evaporation of the solvent yielded a nearly colorless oil. The oil was chromatographed flash, silica gel, benzene acetone 95 5 to yield N N 3S 3 1,1 dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 2 4 methoxyphenyl methyl thio 4 phenylbutyl L phenylalanyl L leucine, 1,1 dimethylethyl ester as a slightly yellow oil 780 mg 1.06 mmol R A solution of N N 3S 3 1,1 dimethylethoxy carbonyl amino 2 4 methoxyphenyl methyl thio 4 phenylbutyl L phenylalanyl L leucine, 1,1 dimethylethyl ester 780 mg, 1.06 mmol , anisole 1.0 ml and trifluoroacetic acid 14 ml was stirred at room temperature under argon. After 1 hour, the reaction was cooled to 0 C and mercuric trifluoroacetate 497 mg, 1.1 eq was added. The reaction was stirred for 1 hour at 0 C and then concentrated to a red oil. The oil was triturated with ether hexane and a nearly colorless solid was collected and washed with hexane. The solid was dissolved in degassed 80 aqueous acetic acid 20 ml and hydrogen sulfide was bubbled through the solution for 30 minutes. The black reaction mixture was filtered through a pad of Celite followed by a Millipore filter Teflon . The filtrate was concentrated to an amber oil. The oil was diluted with degassed double distilled water 20 ml and 1N hydrochloric acid 3.2 ml, 1.5 eq and the mixture filtered Millipore, Metricel . The clear, colorless filtrate was lyophilized and relyophilized twice from water to yield the title compound as a fluffy, colorless solid 490 mg 0.87 mmol R The following additional compounds fall within the scope of this invention The following compounds were prepared by the method described in Example 1