# Flow control apparatus.

## Abstract
Flow control apparatus comprises body means, for example a hopper 11 , defining a through passage 12, 15 for granular material, and control means 19, 21, 24 for controlling the rate of flow by narrowing the through passage while maintaining a smooth flow through the passage. In one embodiment the passage is narrowed by means of a pivotable side 19 . The use of the apparatus enables the rate of flow to be changed without any sudden disturbance to the flow, which is particularly important when the apparatus is used with weighing apparatus, where sudden disturbance can lead to inaccurate weighing.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Flow control apparatuscomprising body means 11 defining a through passage 12,15 for granular materials, and control means 19, 21, 24 for controlling the rate of flow, characterised in that the control means acts by narrowing the through passage while maintaining a smooth flow path through the passage. 2. Flow control apparatus as claimed in claim 1, in which the control means acts by narrowing the outlet end 15 of the through passage. 3. Flow control apparatus as claimed in claim 2, in which the outlet end of the through passage is provided with at least one movable side 19 in order to narrow the outlet end. 4. Flow control apparatus as claimed in claim 3, in which the or each movable side is pivotable to alter the angle of the side. 5. Flow control apparatus as claimed in claim 3, in which the or each movable side is s idable in a direction inclined to the direction of flow to move the outlet end of the side closer to the opposing side. 6. Flow control apparatus as claimed in any one of the claims 3 to 5, in which the or each side is movable by a fluid generated ram. 7. Flow control apparatus as claimed in claim 6, in which the ram is pneumatically generated. 8. Flow control apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 3 to 7, in which stop means are provided to limit the movement of the or each movable side. 9. Flow control apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, in which closure means are provided, operable to close fully the outlet end. 10. Flow control apparatus as claimed in claim 9 when dependent on any one of claims 3 to 8, in which the closure means is operable to close fully the outlet end regardless of the position of the or each movable side. 11. Blow control apparatus as claimed in claim 9 or claim 10, in which the closure means comprise a gate which is movable across the flow path. 12. Flow control apparatus as claimed in claim 11, in which the gate is movable by a fluid operated rare. 13.Flow control apparatus as claimed in claim 12, in which the ram is pneumatically operated. 14. Flow control apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, in which the body means comprises a discharge hopper. 15. Flow control apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, associated with a weigh pan and weighing apparatus, the weigh pan having its own closure means for delivery of weighed material from the weigh pan, the closure means of the weigh pan being interccected by electrical means with the closure means of the flow control apparatus so that they operate sequentially and cannot open together.

## Description
Flow Control Apparatus The invention relates to flow control apparatus for example in controlling the flow of granular material to a weighing machine. When bagging granular material, for example, granular material may be fed from a bulk supply into a weighing apparatus. Once a predetermined weight has accumulated in the weighing apparatus the flow from the bulk supply is cut off and the material in the weighing apparatus is deposited in a bag or other container. It is desirable for the weighing to be as accurate as is practicable, as even small inaccuracies of, say, 3 would mean the loss of one bag per hundred if overweight, and a possible infringement of weights and measures legalisation if underweight. Tolerances of plus or minus 0.1 are therefore not uncommon. It is also important that the speed of the weighing, for example of up to twenty five dischanges per minute, be optimised, and that the speed of weighing should not impair the accuracy and vice versa. In known automatic weighing machines the flow of material from the bulk supply is controlled by sequentially operated baffles or shutters. There are normally two discharge stages. During the first stage material is allowed to flow uninterrupted from a bulk container through a discharge spout and into a weigh pan. As the required weight is approached, the flow is restricted either by partially closing a valve or gate on the discharge spout or by fully closing an inner valve or gate having a hole therein, so that flow can only take place subsequently through the hole. Once the required weight has actually been attained, an outer valve or gate closes thus completely cutting off the flow of material to the weigh pan from the bulk container. The partial closing of valve or gate, or the use of an inner valve or gate having a hole, restricts flow not only by reducing the flow aperture but also by introducing a frictional effect between the material being discharged and static material which is captive on the upper surface of the inner valve or gate or partially closed valve or gate. It is obviously desirable for the weighing to be carried out as quickly as possible, to optimise production, and so ideally the first stage of filling should occupy as much of the cycle as possible. However rapid filling from the bulk container induces vibrations or swaying of the weigh pan which cuses inaccuracies and it is therefore necessary to restrict the full flow at an early stage of material transfer to allow the weigh pan to stabilise whilst the weight is topped up to the final required amount during the second, less rapid, stage of transfer. However the partial closing of a valve or gate, or the complete closing cf a valve or gate having an aperture therein, introduces a sudden pronounced barrier to the smooth flow of the material. This, in effect, introduces a shock to the system and hence aggrevates the above mentioned problems associated with vibration or swaying of the weigh pan. With a view to avoiding or reducing these problems the invention provides flow control apparatus comprising body means defining a through passage for granular material, and control means for controlling the rate of flow, the control means acting b narrowing the through passage while maintaining a smooth flow path through the passage. Preferably the control means acts by narrowing the outlet end of the through passage. The body means may comprise a discharge hopper. The outlet end of the through passage may be provided with at least one movable side in order to narrow the outlet end. The or each movable side may be pivotable to alter the angle of the side. Alternatively the or each movable side may be slidable in a direction inclined to the direction of flow to move the outlet end of the side closer to the opposing side. The or each side may be movable by a fluid operated ram, preferably a pneumatically operated ram. Stop means may be provided to limit the movement of the or each movable side. Closure means may be provided, operable to close fully the outlet end. Preferably the closure means is operable to close fully the outlet end regardless of the position of the or each movable side. The closure means may comprise a gate which is movable across the flow path, for example by a fluid operated ram. preferably a pneusatically operated ram. The flow control apparatus may be associated with aweigh pan and weighing apparatus, the weigh pan having its own closure means for delivery of weighed material from the weigh pan, the closure means of the weigh pan being interconnected by electrical means with the closure means of the flow control apparatus so that they operate sequentially and cannot open together. The weighing apparatus is preferably as described in our co pending EuropeanPatent Application of even date claiming priority from U.K. Patent Application Nc. 8428274. By way of example, a specific embodiment of flow control apparatus according to the invention will now be described, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is a side view of an embodiment of flow control apparatus according to the invention associated with a weighing machine Figure 2 is an end view of the flow control apparatus to a different scale Figure 3 is a plan view of the flow control apparatus Figure 4 is a side view of part of the weighing machine, showing a weight sensing device in more detail and Figure 5 is an end view of that part of the weighing machine shown in Figure 4. In Figure 1, item G represents a gantry which is surmounted by a weighing machine 10 for the automatic weighing of granular material such as fertilizer. The machine 10 is provided with flow control apparatus in the form of a bulk feed hopper 11 having an opening 12 best seen in Figure 3 which opening is connected to a bulk feed storage container not shown . The hopper 11 has sloping sides 13 and 14 leading to a discharge outlet 15. A swinging gate 16 operated by a ram 17 mounted on the side 14 and 18 is so arranged that the flow through the discharge outlet 15 can be completely stopped when the gate is in the position shown in Figure 1. The hopper has a movable side 19 pivotally mounted at 20. Fixed to the side 19 is a lever 24 and by extending a ram 21 which is attached to the lever 24, the side 19 can be pivoted anti clockwise about the pivot 20 as viewed in Figure 1. The ram 21 is mounted on the hopper at 22. An adjusting screw 23 is secured to a fixed part of the hopper to limit the downward pivoting movement of the lever 24 and hence govern the extent to which the side 19 may be moved to narrow the discharge inlet 15 and restrict material flow from the hopper 11. Located below the hopper 11 is a weigh pan 25 having closure doors 26 and 27 operable by a ram 28.the position of the ram 28 is sensed by a proximity switch 29 which makes it possible to monitor whether the doors 26 and 27.are open or closed The weigh pan 25 is releasably supported on a load sensing mechanism 31 by means of a claw 30 which engages over s buttonhead shaft 36. The load sensing mechanism 31 is housed in a cabinet 32. The weigh pan may be removed from the buttonhead shaft by lifting the claw attachment and weigh pan.Tubes 33 are provided at each side of the weigh pan for this purpose. The hopper and weigh pan are enclosed in a cabinet 34 which is vented to atmosphere or to the bulk storage container at 35 The load sensing mechanism 31 is as described in our co pending U.K. Patent Application of even date and will not therefore be described in detail. Briefly however, with reference to Figures 4 and 5, the mechanism comprises a load cell 37 connected by flexible strips 38 and 39 to a rigid support arm 40 at its upper end and to a movable mounting plate 41 at its lower end. The hm 40 projects from a fixed vertical plate 40a and the plates 41 and 40a are interconnected but in spaced apart fashion by flexure members 42, 43 and 44. These flexure members permit the plate 41 to move parallel. to the plate 40a.The shaft 36 is rigidly attached to the plate 41 and the movement of the plate 41 is limited in the downward direction by a screw 45 and in the upward direction by a screw 46. The application of a load to the shaft 36 tends to move the plate 41 downwardly, thus putting a load on the load cell 37. In operation material to be weighed is located in the bulk storage container above the hopper 11.Initially the closure doors of the weigh pan, 26 and 27, are held in the closed position by the ram 28 which closure is confirmed by a signal from the proximity switch 29. At the start of the weighing sequence the swinging gate 16 is closed and the pivotable side 19 is aligned with side 13 as shown in Figure 1, ensuring that the discharge outlet 15 is set at its widest opening.Thus material in the hopper 11 is resting on the upper surface of the gate 16 which will ensure a full flow of material upon opening of the gate 16. To commence weighing the ram 17 is retracted to open the gate 16 and material is allowed to flow from the hopper 11 into the weigh pan 25. Upon attaining a predetermined weight in the weigh pan which is less than the required full load, the ram 21 is extended to pivot the lever 24 and hence move the side 19 until the lever 24 engages with the screw 23. Thus the discharge outlet 15 is substantially reduced allowing a highly controlled smooth, streamlined flow of material into the weigh pan until the weight is topped up to the final desired amount.At this point a signal from the load cell causes the ram 17 to extend, moving the gate 16 back into the position shown in Figure 1 and completely stopping the flow of material into the weigh pan. The doors 26 and 27 are then opened and the material of known weight is discharged into a bag or like container. It can be seen that because the transition from high to low flow rate is extremely smooth and controlled, shocks to the system are avoided. It is therefore possible to employ higher feed rates and obtain better feeding accuracy than could be obtained with feeding devices used previously. Vibrations induced into the weighing system are minimised allowing extremely high weighing speeds to be achieved. The invention is not restricted to the details of the foregoing embodiment. For instance the side 19 instead of being pivotable, could be arranged to slide in its own plane, thus making it possible to move its outlet end nearer to the side 14 to narrow the discharge outlet. With such an arrangement a different type of closure gate 16 would of course have to be used. The side 14 may also be movable if desired.