# Crosslinkable elastomeric materials.

## Abstract
A process for the production of a cross linkable thermo plastic elastomeric material comprises blending together under conditions which promote graft copolymerisation components comprising A a nitrile rubber component and B a thermoplastic organic polymer component comprising, for example, ethylene alkyl meth acrylate wherein the ther moplastic organic component B has pendant silane groups bearing hydrolysable functions or, simultaneously with, or subsequent to, the blending graft compolymerisation, pen dant silane substituents are introduced into the blend. The cross linkable thermoplastic elastomeric material of the present invention can be used to manufacture articles by thermoforming techniques.

## Claims
Claims 1. A process for the production of a crosslinkable thermoplastic elastomeric material comprising blending together under conditions which promote graft copolymerisation components comprising A a nitrile rubber component and B a thermoplastic organic polymer component characterised in that 1 the thermoplastic organic polymer component B has pendant silane groups bearing hydrolysable functions or 2 simultaneously with, or subsequent to, the blending graft copolymerisation, an unsaturated silane compound bearing hydrolysable functions is grafted into the blend or 3 in the case that thermoplastic organic component B can be a copolymer containing polymerised units of meth acrylic acid or alkyl meth acrylate, simultaneously with or subsequent to the blending graft copolymerisation a silane compound having the general formula X CH2 a Si Y 3 is reacted therewith to introduce pendant silane substitutents into the thermoplastic organic component B, or 4 in the case that the thermoplastic organic component B can be a copolymer containing polymerised units of vinyl alcohol or vinyl carboxylate, simultaneously with or subsequent to the blending graft copolymerisation a silane compound having the general formula Z CH2 a Si Y 3 is reacted therewith to introduce pendant silane substituents into the thermoplastic organic component B , wherein X is OH, SH, NH2, or R COO R is 1 18C alkyl or CH2 C R1 R1 is H or 1 18C alkyl a 3 1 18 and each Y is independently H, 1 18C hydrocarbyl, 1 18C alkoxy or 1 18C alkoxyalkoxy provided that at least one of the Y groups is the alkoxy or alkoxyalkoxy group, and wherein Z is R200C , R2 being H or 1 18CBlkyl. 2. A process as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the nitrile rubber is a copolymer of butadiene and acrylonitrile. 3. A process as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2 wherein the thermoplastic organic polymer component B comprises one or more of polyethylene, propylene, ethylene hydrocarbon copolymers , ethylene alkyl acrylate or methacrylate copolymer ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer and ethylene vinyl ether copolymer. 4. A process as claimed in Claim 3 wherein the thermoplastic organic polymer component B comprises ethylene alkyl acrylate or methacrylate copolymer wherein the alkyl group contains 1 to 4 carbon atoms. 5. A process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein simultaneously with, or subsequent to, the blending graft copolymerisation, an unsaturated silane compound bearing hydrolysable functions is grafted into the blend, characterised in that the unsaturated silane compound has the general formula R1siR2my3 m wherein R1 represents an ethylenically unsaturated hydrocarbyl or hydrocarbyloxy group R2 represents an aliphatic saturated hydrocarbyl group Y represents the hydrolysable organic group and m represents zero, 1 or 2. 6. A process as claimed in Claim 5 wherein the unsaturated silane compound is selected from one or more of vinyl trimethoxy silane, vinyl tris methoxyethyoxy silane, vinyltriethyoxy silane and vinyl triacetoxy silane. 7. A process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the blending of the nitrile rubber component A with the thermoplastic component B is carried out in the presence of an organic peroxide capable of generating free radicals under the graft copolymerisation conditions. 8. A process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein a silanol condensation catalyst is incorporated into the crosslinkable thermoplastiç elastomeric material. 9. A process as claimed in Claim 8 wherein the quantity of silanol condensation catalyst is in the range 0.01 to 5 per cent by weight relative to the quantity of the crosslinkable thermoplastic elastomeric material. 10. Articles manufactured by themoforming the crosslinkable thermoplastic elastomeric material prepared in accordance with any one of claims 1 9.

## Description
Crosslinkable Elastomeric Materials The present invention relates to crosslinkable thermoplastic elastomeric materials and to a process for producing such materials. Thermoplastic elastomeric materials are well known in the prior art as elastomeric materials which are capable of being thermoformed into useful articles. It is also known that articles made from such materials can be crosslinked to form articles having improved properties e.g. improved high temperature dimensional stability by the action of vulcanising agents such as sulphur or organic peroxides. Curable i.e. crosslinkable compositions of this type are described for example in GB A 2028837. In the field of conventional thermoplastic polymers i.e. nooelastomeric polymers it is known that certain of these polymers, for example, polyolefins polyvinyl chloride and ethylenelunsaturated ester copolymers can be rendered crosslinkable by incorporating hydrolysable silane groups into the molecular structure of the polymer e.g. by copolymerisation, grafting or transesterification techniques . Crosslinking of the produced silane modified material is achieved by exposing the final thermoformed article to a hydrolysing agent, e.g. water, preferably in the presence of a silanol condensation catalyst.Crosslinkable materials of this type are described, for example, in GB A 2028831, GB A 2039513, GB A 1415194, GB A 1357549, GEA 123S034 and GB k 1286460. It is an object of the present invention to provide a process for opanufacturing crosslinkable silane modified thermoplastic elastomeric material having improved properties. Accordingly the present invention provides a process for the production of a crosslinkable thermoplastic elastomeric material comprising blending together under conditions which promote graft copolymerisation components comprising A a nitrile rubber component and B a thermoplastic organic polymer component characterised in that 1 the thermoplastic organic polymer component B has pendant silane groups bearing hydroylsable functions or 2 simultaneously with, or subsequent to, the blending graft copolymerisation, an unsaturated silane compound bearing hydrolysable functions is grafted into the blend or 3 in the case that thermoplastic organic component B can be a copolymer containing polymerised units of meth acrylic acid or alkyl meth acrylate, simultaneously with or subsequent to the blendingigraft copolymerisation a silane compound having the general formula X CH2 a Si Y 3 is reacted therewith to introduce pendant silane substitutents into the thermoplastic organic component B, or 4 in the case that the thermoplastic organic component B can be a copolymer containing polymerised units of vinyl alcohol or vinyl carboxylate, simultaneously with or subsequent to the blending graft copolymerisation a silane compound having the general formula Z CH2 a Si Y 3 is reacted therewith to introduce pendant silane substituents into the thermoplastic organic component B , wherein X is OH, SH, NH2, or R COO R is 1 18C alkyl or CH2 C R1 R1 is H or 1 18C alkyl a 1 18 and each Y is independently H, 1 18C hydrocarbyl, 1 18C alkoxy or 1 18C alkoxyalkoxy provided that at least one of the Y groups is the alkoxy or alkoxyalkoxy group, and wherein Z is R200C , R2 being H or 1 18C alkyl. The present invention further provides a crosslinkable elastomeric thermoplastic material comprising a graft copolymer of A a nitrile rubber end 3 a thermoplartic organic polymer characterised in that the units of A and or B in the graft copolymer have pendant silane groups bearing hydrolysable functions. Nitrile rubbers are well known in the art and are copolymers of a diene and an unsaturated nitrile for example, isoprene acrylonitrile copolymer and butatlene acrylonltrile copolymer. In the present invention a preferred nitrile rubber is butadiene acrylonitrile copolymer. Preferably the nitrile rubber, e.g. butadiene acrylonitrile copolymer, has an acrylonitrile content of from 20 to 45X by weight. The thermoplastic organic polymer component employed in the process of the present invention can be a thermoplastic organic polymer modified by the presence of pendant silane groups or can be an unmodified thermoplastic organic polymer. Examples of unmodified thermoplastic organic polymers suitable for use in the process of the present invention are thermoplastic polymers or copolymers of one or more of olefins, vinyl chloride, vinyl ethers or unsaturated esters. Examples of suitable unmodified thermoplastic organic polymers are polyethylene, polypropylene, ethylene hydrocarbon copolymers e.g. LLDPE , ethylene alkyl acrylate or methacrylate copolymers, ethylene vinyl acetate copolymers, hydrolysed or partially hydrolysed ethylene vinyl acetate copolymers and ethylene vinyl ether copolymers, or blends of two or more of these organic polymers.Copolymers of ethylene with an alkyl meth acrylate are preferred.Particularly preferred are copolymers of ethylene with an alkyl acrylate or methacrylate wherein the alkyl group contains from 1 to 4 carbon atoms. Preferably such ethylene alkyl meth acrylate copolymers contain from 75 to 95Z by weight based on copolymer of ethylene. Thermoplastic organic polymers modified by the presence of pendant silane groups bearing hydrolysable functions are well known in the art and they can be prepared, for example, by copolymerisation, silane grafting or transesterification techniques carried out prior to the blending and grafting of A with B . For example, a thermoplastic organic polymer component having pendant silane groups can be prepared by copolymerising an unsaturated monomer, for example ethylene, with an unsaturated silane compound having hydrolysable functions in the presence of a free radical initiator or a Ziegler catalyst. Such copolymerisation techniques are described for example in GB A 2028831, GB A 2039513 andGB A 1415194.Methods for making thermoplastic organic polymer components by the silane grafting technique are disclosed, for example, in GB A 1357549, GB A 1234034 and GB A 1286460. The silane graft polymerisation method forms the basis of the well known SIOPLAS RTM commercial method for making crosslinkable thermoplastic polymers. A method for making thermoplastic organic polymer components by transesterification is described in EP A 4752. The ratio of nitrile rubber component to the thermoplastic organic polymer component employed in the process of the present invention or present as units thereof in the thermoplastic elastomeric material is preferably from is preferably 1 20 to 10 1, most preferably 1 4 to 4 1 parts by weight based on the total weight of nitrile rubber A and thermoplastic organic polymer B . The blending of the nitrile rubber component with the thermoplastic organic polymer component is suitably carried out in the presence of a free radical initiator to promote grafting using, for example an azbcompound or an organic peroxide capable of generating free radicals under the graft copolymerisation conditions. Examples of suitable free radical initiators are azo bisisobutyronitrile, dicumyl peroxide, 1,l di tertiarybutylperoxy 3,3,5 trimethyl cyclohexane, ditertiarybutyl peroxide, 2,5 dimethyl 2,5 bis tertiary butyl peroxy hexane, tertiarybutyl cumyl peroxide, bis tertiarybutyl peroxy isopropyl benzene, tertiary butyl peroxybenzoate and 4,4 ditertiarybutyl peroxy n butyl valerate. The free radical initiator can be supported on an inert carrier if desired, for example, precipitated calcium carbonate or silica. The quantity of initiator employed is suitably 0.05 to 4.0 wit , preferably 0.1 to 3.Owt based on the weight of A plus B. The graft copolymerisation of the nitrile rubber component A and the thermoplastic copolymer component B is suitably carried out at a temperature above the melting temperature of A and B.Generally temperatures in the range 110 to 210 OC are found satisfactory. The unsaturated eilane compound employed either in the preparation of the silane modified thermoplastic organic polymer or in the alternative embodiment 2 in the process of the present invention is preferably a compound having the general formula RlSiR2my3 m wherein R1 represents an ethylenically unsaturated hydrocarbyl or hydrocarbyloxy group R2 represents an aliphatic saturated hydrocarbyl group Y represents the hydrolysable organic group for example Y can be halogen or alkoxyl and m represents zero, 1 or 2. Examples of preferred unsaturated silane compounds are vinyl trimethoxy silane, vinyl tris methoxyethoxy silane, vinyltriethoxy silane and vinyltriacetoxy silane. One or more such silanes can be employed if desired. The quantity of unsaturated silane compound employed in the preparation of the silane modified thermoplastic organic polymer or in the alternative embodiment 2 of the present invention is suitably sufficient to provide a concentration of 0.05 to 10 weight X, preferably 0.5 to 5 weight Z of calculated as weight of silane monomer employed per 100 parts by weight of A plus B. In embodiment 2 of the process of the present invention the unsaturated silane compound having hydrolysable groups can be grafted subsequent to the blending graft copolymerisation of the nitrile rubber with the thermoplastic organic polymer or can be grafted in situ simultaneously during the blending graft copolymerisation process. In the case that the grafting of the unsaturated silane is carried out in situ , the free radical initiator s employed in the graft copolymerisation are generally found suitable for the silane grafting also. When the silane grafting is carried out as a subsequent step, the same chemically or different initiators can be employed. It is preferred to carry out the graft copolymerisation of A and B, and the grafting of the unsaturated silane compound simultaneously i.e. in situ . The graft copolymerisation of the nitrile rubber A with the thermoplastic organic polymer and the simultaneous or subsequent grafting of the unsaturated silane compound can be carried out using conventional melt blending or extrusion apparatus if desired. For example the components can be mixed in a rubber mill or mixer or a screw extruder until the desired grafting has been achieved. For example, the grafting conditions e.g. quantity of peroxides, temperature and time are preferably such that the final crosslinkable thermoplastic elastomeric material has a high load melt index BS 1SO 1133 1981 E Condition 7 in the range 0.5 to 50 grammes per 10 minutes 21.6kg load 1900C . The crosslinkable thermoplastic elastomeric material of the present invention can contain additives for example antioxidants, fillers eg carbon black , metal deactivators, lubricants, plasticisers, stabilisers, watertree inhibitors, flame retardants or pigments as desired. Additives of this type are conventionally incorporated either directly or by a masterbatching technique. The material can also be blended with thermoplastics, for example, polyethylene low, medium or high density , linear low density polyethylene, polypropylene, ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer or ethylene ethylacrylate copolymers. A further embodiment of the present invention provides a crosslinkable composition comprising the crosslinkable thermoplastic elastomeric material hereinbefore described together with a silanol condensation catalyst. The silanol condensation catalyst employed in the composition of the present invention can be any such catalyst known in the art for crosslinking silyl modified polymers. Examples of suitable classes of silanol condensation catalysts are organic and inorganic acids and alkalis, and metal compounds, for example complexes or carboxylates of lead, cobalt, iron, nickel, zinc or tin.Examples of suitable silanol condensation catalyst are dibutyltin dilaurate, dibutyltin diacetate dibutyltin dioctoate, stannous acetate, stannous caprylate, lead naphthenate, zinc caprylate, cobalt naphthenate ethylamines, dibutylamine, bexylamines, pyridine inorganic acids such as sulfuric acid end hydrochloric acid and organic acids such as toluenesulfonic acid, acetic acid, stearic acid and maleic acid. Carboxylates of ti. are preferred.Particularly preferred silanol condensation catalysts are dialkyl tin dicarboxylates, for example dibutyi tin dilaurate, dibutyl tin dipalmitate, dibutyl tin distearate, dioctyl tin dilaurate and dibutyl tin maleate. The quantity of silanol condensation catalyst employed in this embodiment of the present invention is suitably in the range 0.001 and 3.0 moles, preferably in the range 0.003 to 0.05 moles per mole of silyl units in the crosslinkable polymer. The silanol condensation catalyst can be incorporated into the composition by conventional blending or masterbatching techniques.Alternatively, it is possible to incorporate the silanol condensation catalyst at an earlier stage, for example during the preparation of the graft copolymer of the nitrile rubber thermoplastic organic polymer or during the silane grafting stage. Generally speaking, the quantity of the silanol condensation catalyst to be blended into the composition is in the range of 0.001 to 10 per cent by weight, preferably 0.01 to 5 per cent by weight, particularly preferably 0.03 to 3 per cent by weight, relative to the quantity of crosslinkable thermoplastic elastomeric material. Another method suitable for crosslinking articles manufactured from the crosslinkable thermoplastic elastomeric material of the present invention is to contact the article with a solution or slurry of silanol condensation catalyst. The crosslinkable thermoplastic elastomeric material of the present invention can be crosslinked using the techniques known in relation to the crosslinking of silane modified polyethylenes.These techniques generally involve exposing the material to water, moist gas or steam in the presence of silanol condensation catalyst. Techniques of this type are described in GB A 1357549,GB A 1234034 and GB A 1286460. rhe crosslinkable thermoplastic elastomeric material of the present invention can be used to manufacture articles by conventional thermoforming techniques, for example, blow moulding, extrusion, injection moulding, film blowing, calendering, rotomoulding and extrusion coating. The material is particularly preferred for wire and cable coating applications and for automative applications where grease and oil resistance are important. The invention is illustrated in the following Examples.Example 1 A crosslinkable thermoplastic elastomeric material was prepared as follows A laboratory 3 litre Banbury internal mixer was preheated to 650C. The Banbury speed was set to 50rpm and the ram pressure to 2kg cm2. 1850 g of Breon RTM N36 C35 made by BP Chemicals nitrile rubber was charged, the ram dropped onto it and the speed increased to 100 rpm. After 30 seconds the following ingredients were added. Dicup. 40KE 66g Dicumyl peroxide 40X in keiselguhr Flectol H. antioxidant 30g Polyvinyl trimethyl dihydro quinoline Dyna Silan VTMO EO 45g Vinyl tri methoxy ethoxy silane ex Dynamit Nobel Ethylene ethyl acrylate copolymer 1200g DPDM6169 ex BP Chemicals At time 90 seconds the ram was dropped onto the charge. After a total of 8 minutes mixing the material was dumped. The temperature of the material was measured as 1910C with a needle pyrometer. The minimum current observed on the machines ammeter was 42 amps which rose to 62 amps during the crosslinking reaction.A 1.5mm plaque was compression moulded from the material at 1800C and then immersed in water containing 0.5wtX dibutyl tin dilaurate silanol condensation catalyst at 70µC for 16 hours. The product was tested as follows lEC 502 540 Heat Elongation 1500C C 20N 15 min 32t IEC 502 540 Hot Set 0 IEC 502 540 Tensile stress at break MPA 6.4IEC 502 540 Elongation at break 320 A similar plaque which was not crosslinked in water dibutyl tin dilaurate broke under heat elongation after 1 minute.Examples 2 5 An intermediate compound Compound 1 of the formulation shown in Table 1 was prepared. Compound 1 was then extruded with varying amounts of mixtures of vinyl trimethoxy silane VTMS WackerChemie , dicumyl peroxide DICUP Hercules and dibutyl tin dilaurate DBTL Akzo Chemie as shown in Table 2, under conditions promoting grafting of the NBR nitrile rubber to the thermoplastic polyethylene and promoting grafting of the unsaturated silane to the polymeric material. The blends as described in Table 2, were fed into the hopper of a Gottfert extruder equipped with a 25 mm screw having L D of 23 1 and a 5 cm slot casting die having 3 mm die gap to produce an extruded tape. The die temperature was 2100C and the screw speed was 30 RPM. The extrudate was collected on a conveyor belt moving at a rate such that the tape thickness was maintained at 1.5 i 0.1 mm. The extruded tape was cured by immersion in a water bath thermostated at 800C. Samples of the crosslinked extruded tapes were subjected to heat elongation testing according to IEC 540 2000C, 20 g mm2, 15 minutes . The heat elongation figures are recorded in Table 2 for tapes cured for 3 hours. Table 1EMI10.1 tb Component SEP wt SEP Supplier tb Polyethylene SEP LL104AA SEP 35.0 SEP BP SEP Chemicals tb Levapren SEP 450 SEP 28.3 SEP Bayer SEP AG tb NBR SEP Breon SEP N36 C35 SEP 3.1 SEP BP SEP Chemicals tb Carbon SEP Black SEP P SEP Grade SEP 31.8 SEP Phillips tb Antioxidants SEP 1.8 SEP Bayer SEP AG tb Table 2EMI10.2 tb SEP Component SEP Parts SEP by SEP weight tb SEP Control SEP Ex SEP 2 SEP Ex SEP 3 SEP Ex SEP 4 SEP Ex SEP 5 tb Compound SEP 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP VTHS SEP SEP 0.89 SEP 1.07 SEP 1.25 SEP SEP SEP tb SEP DICUP SEP SEP 0.825 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.16 SEP 0.16 tb SEP DBTL SEP SEP SEP 0.025 SEP 0.03 SEP 0.038 SEP SEP tb Properties SEP after tb 3 SEP hours SEP in SEP water SEP Control SEP Ex SEP 2 SEP Ex SEP 3 SEP Ex SEP 4 SEP Ex SEP 5 tb at SEP 800C SEP tb SEP Heat tb Elongation SEP Fail SEP 120 SEP 40 SEP 30 SEP Fail tb 2000C 20N SEP l5min SEP tb Tensile SEP Stress SEP SEP 10.9 SEP SEP 9.9 SEP 12.2 SEP j SEP 11.1 tb at SEP Break SEP MPa tb Elongation SEP at SEP 400 SEP SEP 340 SEP 310 SEP 380 tb Break SEP X SEP tb