# Turbine.

## Abstract
A water turbine has a series of spaced blades 22 attached to and extending around the periphery of a body portion 20 , preferably of conical or similar shape each of the blades 22 has a leading end 23 mounted at a mid reigon of the body e.g. halfway along it, and each blade 22 generally increases in radial dimension in the downstream direction towards the base 21 of the body and each blade 22 generally decreases in pitch of the blade surface in the downstream direction. A channel is defined between adja cent blades, the channel diverging in the downstream direction and the base 21 of the body extends transversely to the axis 18 of the body and cooperates with the blade structure to provide a zone of relative low pressure near the axial region of the body, whereby an efficient water turbine is provided.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A water turbine comprising a central body portion extending along an axis and increasing in radial dimension along the axial direction towards a base portion a plurality of blades spaced around the periphery of the central body portion and connected thereto thereby providing channels between respective blades. each blade extending from a leading end thereof located at an intermediate region on the periphery of the central body, a trailing end portion of each blade being located adjacent a peripheral region of said base portion and characterised in that each blade 22 generally increases in radial dimension and decreasing in pitch from the leading end 23 thereof to the trailing end portion 24 each channel between adjacent blades diverging in the downstream direction and said base portion 21 is such that when water flows axially over the body portion 20 towards the base portion 21 , the turbine rotates and a relatively low pressure zone in the water occurs adjacent to and downstream of the base portion in its region near the axis 18 . 2. A water turbine as claimed in claim 1 and wherein said base portion extends substantially perpendicular to the axis. 3. A turbine, as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein the central body portion 20 is conical. 4. A turbine as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein there are 5 12 blades 22 equidistantly spaced about the central body portion 20 . 5. A turbine as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the trailing end 24 of each blade 22 is located adjacent the base portion 21 and is substantially in the same axial plane as the leading end of the next but one adjacent blade. 6. A turbine as claimed in any one of the preceding claims and wherein each blade 22 extends from its leading end 23 at an acute angle to an axial plane passing through the leading end and extends at an angle of 0 approximately 45 to an axial plane passing through the mid point of the blade. 7. A turbine as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein there are approximately nine of said blades 22 . 8. A turbine as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein at the trailing end portion 24 the radial dimension Y of each blade is in the range 10 to 40 of the overall diameter of the turbine. 9. A water turbine as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the radial dimension Y of each blade is approximately 208 of the overall diameter of the water turbine, the radial dimension Y of each blade 22 progressively increasing from the leading end 23 to the trailing end portion 24 . 10. A turbine as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the leading end 23 of each blade 22 is located substantially half way along the central body portion 20 . 11. A turbine as claimed in any one of the preceding claims and wherein the intersection between the root of each blade and the central body portion 20 extends along a curved line L from which the blade extends substantially radially outwardly. 12. A turbine as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the central body portion 20 is conical and has an angle of about 650 between the conical wall and the base portion 21 . which extends substantially at right angles to the axis 18 of the cone. 13. A turbine as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein a pump 40 40A is mounted within the central body portion and is connected so as to be driven by rotation of the central body portion 21 , a water inlet 43 54 being provided therein. 14. A turbine as claimed in claim 13, wherein the pump is a positive displacement pump 40A having a plurality of opposed cylinders 45 and corresponding pistons or a plurality of diaphragms connected to a crankshaft 46 and means for varying the stroke of the pistons within the cylinders or varying the stroke of the diaphragms. 15. A turbine as defined in claim 13 or 14. wherein at least one conduit 52 extends radially outwardly from the interior of the central body portion 20 adjacent the base portion 21 to a discharge point at or adjacent the trailing edge 24 of an adjacent blade for discharging particulate material 37 from the water stream away from the pump 40 40A . 16. A turbine as claimed in any one of the preceding claims. and in combination with a float 35 , the turbine being mounted on the float 35 for location in first and second positions in the first position the turbine 34 34 is located above the float for transportation, and in the second position the turbine is located beneath the float for operation by immersion in a water stream. 17. A turbine as defined in any one of the preceding claims and having neutral buoyancy means 34A . 18. A water turbine apparatus comprising mounting means 25 70 for mounting one or more water turbines in a stream, each turbine being as claimed in claim 17 and connected to drive a rotating load.

## Description
TURBINE The present invention relates to a liquid operated turbine and more particularly, but not exclusively. to a water operated turbine capable of pumping water, generating electricity or doing other work when fully or partially immersed in a stream of water. For many applications it is desirable to harness the energy available in a flowing fluid. For example, in many agricultural applications there is a need for the energy in a stream to be used to pump water to a higher elevation for storage and or stock use. In remote locations particularly there is also the demand for generation of electricity. In the past waterwheels have been used to harness the energy of the water flowing in a stream or river.Generally, such waterwheels have had the disadvantage of very limited and inefficient performances especially in slow moving streams. To produce a useful waterwheel speed and power level a fast flowing stream is required or the construction of a dam is needed to provide sufficient head to drive the waterwheel. Windmills are known for pumping water but the availability of wind is unpredictable and may not be sufficient when required. Windmills also work on the waterwheel principle and generally are not effective in light breezes. There is a need for a very efficient water turbine capable of operation in water streams such as rivers and tidal streams, and suitable for economic manufactured so as to be durable. Furthermore, a turbine is required for developing relatively high power even at low stream velocities. Furthermore, for many applications it is important that the water turbine be able to operate despite the presence of foreign matter such as weed moving with the water stream. The present invention is directed to new and useful developments and alternatives to the prior art. According to the present invention there is provided a water turbine comprising a central body portion extending along an axis and increasing in radial dimension along the axial direction towards a base portion a plurality of blades spaced around the periphery of the central body portion and connected thereto thereby providing channels between respective blades, each blade extending from a leading end thereof located at an intermediate region on the periphery of the central body, a trailing end portion of each blade being located adjacent a peripheral region of said base portion, and each blade generally increasing in radial dimension and decreasing in pitch from the leading end thereof to the trailing end portion each channel between adjacent blades diverging in the downstream direction and said base portion is such that when water flows axially over the body portion towards the base portion, the turbine rotates and a relatively low pressure zone in the water occurs adjacent to and downstream of the base portion in its region near the axis. Preferably, the central body portion is conical. Preferably, a small number of relatively large surface area blades are used, e.g. 5 12 and most preferably nine blades equidistantly spaced about the central body portion are provided. The trailing end of each blade is located adjacent the base portion and is approximately in the same axial plane as the leading end of the next but one adjacent blade i.e. each blade overlaps in the circumferential direction by about 50 the next blade. 0 Each blade forms an angle of about 45 with an axial plane passing through the mid point of the blade. Preferably, the leading end of each blade is located halfway along the central body portion. With advantage, the central body portion can be hollow and can accomodate a pump. such as a positive displacement pump having a plurality of opposed cylinders and corresponding pistons connected to a crankshaft with means for varying the stroke of the pistons within the cylinders for example a variable position crank pin can be provided. Alternatively a variable stroke diaphragm pump can be used. Alternatively, an electricity generator may be housed in the body portion. Embodiments of the invention will now be described.by way of example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which Figure 1 is a side elevation of a water turbine embodying the present invention Figure 2 is a constructional diagram for the turbine body and blades Figure 3 is a side elevation showing schematically the turbine mounted on a catarmaran float Figure 4 is a side elevation of a practical form of float on which the turbine is mounted Figure 5 is a cross sectional view of the turbine ofFigure 4 showing the installation of a pump Figure 6 is a sectional elevation of the turbine incorporating three internal electricity generators and Figure 7 is a sectional end elevation of the turbine of Figure 6 and Figure 8 is an illustration of an embodiment using neutral buoyancy installed across a river. As illustrated in Figure 1, the turbine has a conical central body 20 having an axis 18 and extending from a nose portion 19 to a transverse flat base portion 21 which is perpendicular to the axis 18. A set of nine spaced curved blades 22 are attached to the body 20. The conical body has a base angle A of approximately 650 which in combination with the other structural features produces a highly efficient turbine for many purposes. Each blade 22 increases progressively in radial dimension as it extends from its leading end 23 to its trailing end 24, the leading end 23 being located approximately halfway along the central body 20 and the trailing end 24 being located in the plane of the base portion 21. Figure 1 shows an optinal reinforcing bar 25 shown fixed to the trailing end 24 of the lowermost blade only and extending across a portion of the base to which it is fastened. Each blade and the conical body 20 is economically fabricated from sheet metal, and as shown in Figure 2 simple geometric forms are utilised. For greater efficiency, each blade could be of airfoil shape but such shaping may incure greater capital costs. As best shown in Figure 2, for the preferred embodiment which has nine blades1 the conical body is fabricated from a segment of a circle of about 1540 and to assist fabrication this is 0 divided into nine sectors of 17.11 each. Each blade extends along the conical body and circumfercially around the body to the extent of occupying two sectors thus there is a 50 overlap of one blade relative to the next blade. Figure 2 shows the shape of each blade 22 when in flat form, the blade having an edge 22A arranged to abutt and be fixed to the conical body along a curved path such as line L. In the illustrated embodiment, the pitch of the blade decreases towards the base portion 21. From its leading end 23 the blade initially extends at an angle of about 340 to a line along the conical body in the axial plane and through the leading end and at a distance halfway between the leading end, and the base portion 21. represented by arc A, the pitch has decreased to about 450 and thereafter the pitch decreases progressively further. The rear edge 22B of each blade has a substantial height relative to the diameter of the base portion of the conical body 20. In a typical embodiment, the base portion 21 has a diameter, indicated by capital X in Figure 1, of 60 cm and the height of the rear edge 22B of the blade indicated by dimention Y is about 20 cm. In this embodiment the overall diameter of the water turbine is about 1 meter and preferably the length of the turbine is also about 1 meter or the same as its overall diameter. In this embodiment the base angle A is about 650. A tubular mount 26 extends forwardly from the nose 19 of the conical body and is adapted to accommodate, for example, connections to a generator or water pump which may be mounted within the conical body. The exact number of blades on the turbine, their shape and configuration and the proportions relative to the conical body may be varied, but the arrangement described with reference to Figures 1 and 2 is considered to provide a highly efficient turbine particularly suitable for use in relatively low velocity streams. For example, it has been found that with a turbine of overall diameter 1 meter a substantially linear relationship exists between peak load speed and rate of flow of the water stream. For example. with a the stream of one meter per second a turbine spead of about 24 rpm has been achieved. Futhermore, it has been found that the turbine is relatively efficient in terms of power generation the following examples are given by way of illustration only for a 1 meter turbine Stream velocitY Power in watts 0.5 m s 12.3 1 m s 98 2 m s 785 3 era 6 2650 Furthermore, the shaping of the turbine including the divergence of the channel formed between the adjacent blades has been found to provide essentially a self cleaning performance with respect to weed and debris carried by the water stream nevertheless high efficiency is achieved. Embodiments of the invention can be versatile, cheap to manufacture, low in maintenance requirements1 highly reliable and requiring a low degree of skill for installation, servicing and operation. Another illustration of the performance by an embodiment of the invention is for a case of a turbine of overall diameter 1.5 m used in a very slow stream of 0.14 m s 0.5 k.p.h. . It has been found that a pumping rate of 13.6 litres per minute is achievable using a water pump located within the turbine body, discharge being through a vertical rise of 18.2 meters. Embodiments of the invention may be installed in many different ways but a particularly advantageous and useful installation will now be described with reference toFigures 3 and 4. The schematic drawing of Figure 3 shows an embodiment of water turbine 34 attached to a catamaran float 35. In this embodiment the turbine has a larger number of blades than shoyn in Figures 1 and 2 but this is for illustrative purposes only. The catamaran float has a support bar 36 mounted through a pivot pin 37 and the bar carries one end of the turbine 34. A debris deflecting ekeg 38 is also mounted between the floats of the catamaran float and is connected to the support 36. The support 36 is connected to a cable 39 which when pulled in the direction of arrow X causes the assembly to pivot thereby raising the turbine 34 and skeg to the position shown in dotted lines for servicing and or transportation. The skeg may be dismounted and secured horizontally, as shown at 38 for transportation.. Alternative construction, which may be cheaper and more convenient, is one in which the turbine 34 is mounted on a rotatable shaft disposed at a shallow angle, and which is mounted in bearings above water level and drives a rotating load, such as a pump. generator or compressor. Refering now to the practical form of installation shown in Figure 4, the same reference numerals as used inFigure 3 have been used for corresponding parts. In this embodiment the turbine 34 is shown partially cut away and accomodating a water pump 40 connected to a delivery pipe 41, which is supported on a mooring cable 43. The float incorporates a gantry 44 on which the cable 39 is supported. The hulls of the catamaran are slightly splayed with the upstream ends being further apart than the downstream end to produce a self centering effect on the catamaran.Each hull may have a centreboard 42 as shown in dotted lines to further increase this centering effect and to increase the velocity of the water flow over the turbine by acting as a converging tunnel. The embodiment of Figure 5 incorporates a different form of water pump 40A, the pump having two sets of opposed pistons arranged to reciprocate within respective cylinders 45, the pistons being connected via respective connecting rods to a crankshaft 46 connected to the base portion 21 of the turbine for rotation therewith. The front end of the pump is mounted to the mounting tube 25. An aperture is provided in the base of the turbine body and covered with mesh 43. The water may have sand or other particles entrained with it and these particles tend to build up inside the rear of the conical body as indicated at 51. To avoid this problem a small pipe 52 extends along at least some of the blades radially outwardly to the outer tip thereof for discharging this sand. Small holes 53 are provided near the nose. just downstream of solid infill 33, for draining the body of the turbine when it is lifted from the water as described with reference to Figure 3 . A preferred alternative water inlet arrangement is shown in dotted lines in Figure 5, namely a series of inlet holes 54 near the nose 19 and covered with mesh.Sand is effectively discharged through the pipes 52 at the rear end. Figures 6 and 7 show the turbine being used with internal electricity alternators fixed to the inside of the body portion for rotation therewith. A sun wheel 61 is fixed to the mounting tube 25 and arranged to interact with planet gears 64 driving the alternators 60 to produce electricity. The alternators are connected to power cables 62 via slip rings 63 to deliver the electrical power along power cables which run through the centre of the mounting bar 25. The turbine may be fitted with a device for providing neutral buoyancy this may be in the form of an inflatable bladder fitted within the turbine. The bladder is inflated sufficiently so the turbine remains suspended within the stream just below the surface. The turbine is rotably attached to and tethered by a fixed mounting bar 25 to prevent it from floating away a float is not required. In Figure 8, a mounting cable 70 extends across a river between two fixtures, such as trees, and each of a series of turbines 34 are tethered to the cable and drive rotating lines, such as pumps installed within the turbine body. The shape of the central body portion and the blades allow typical speeds of rotation which are greatly in excess of that expected from a conventional waterwheel which is limited to stream speed. This is thought to result from a venturi effect on the blades the water velocity is increased as it passes along the central body portion and impinges upon the blades to rotate the turbine. The water continues to accelerate through the channels created between the blades as it is sucked into the low pressure zone immediately behind the turbine created by the abrupt ending of the central body portion, i.e. the large flat base portion. This acceleration causes a relatively low pressure region to be formed at the back of the blades, which is believed to assist in producing a high efficiency design.