# Synthetic adjuvants for stimulating antigenic responses.

## Abstract
An antigen composition such as tetanus toxoid or polyomyelitis vaccine having an improved efficacy over the plain antigen comprises at least one bacterial or viral an tigenic species and at least one adjuvant in an amount ef fective to enhance the antigenic response of the antigenic species the adjuvant is an ester of a long chain alcohol containing 10 to 22 carbon atoms and an amino acid, for example octadecyl tyrosine.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An antigen composition comprising at least one bacterial or viral antigenic species and at least one adjuvant in an amount effective to enhance the antigenic response of the antigenic species, characterized in that the adjuvant is an ester of a long chain alcohol containing 10 to 22 carbon atoms and an amino acid. 2. The composition claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the amino acid is an amino acid. 3. The composition claimed in claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the ester is octadecyl tyrosine, which may be in the form of its hydrochloride salt. 4. The composition claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that the antigenic species is tetanus toxoid. 5. The composition claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that the antigenic species is poliomyelitis vaccine, 6. The use of an ester of a long chain alcohol containing 12 to 22 carbon atoms in the alkyl group and an amino acid as an adjuvant to enhance the antigenic response of a bacterial or viral antigenic species. 7. The use of octadecyl tyrosine, which may be in the form of its hydrochloride salt, as an adjuvant to enhance the antigenic response of a bacterial or viral antigenic species, such as, tetanus toxoid or poliomyelitis vaccine. 8. A method of administration of bacterial or viral antigenic species to a warm blooded animal by injecting the animal with a dose of a composition comprising the bacterial or viral antigenic species and at least one adjuvant in an amount effective to enhance the antigenic response of the antigenic species and subsequently injecting the animal with a dose of said bacterial or viral antigenic species alone, characterized in that the adjuvant is an ester of a long chain alcohol containing 10 to 22 carbon atoms and an amino acid. 9. The method of claim 8 characterized in that the adjuvant is octadecyl tyrosine or a hydrochloride salt thereof. 10. The method of claim 8 or 9 characterized in that the antigenic species is poliomyelitis vaccine.

## Description
SYNTHETIC ADJUVANTS FOR STIMULATION OF ANTIGENIC RESPONSES The present invention is concerned with antigen compositions having improved antigenic capability. An adjuvant is a substance that itself is often biologically inactive but which, in conjunction with a given antigen, enhances its antigenic capabilities.Adjuvants have been used experimentally in animals for studies on the immune system and in vaccines for improvement of immunological responses, as measured by antibody titres. The enhancing effects have, in many instances, been confirmed by application to humans. Prior art adjuvants range in type from simple inorganic materials, such as, aluminum phosphate, to complex mixtures, such as, Freund s adjuvant, which is a homogenate of oil, detergent and killed tubercle bacilli. One advantage of the use of adjuvants in vaccines lies in the fact that the same degree of antibody response can be achieved with a smaller amount of antigen. This advantage is demonstrated in the case of an antigen which must be used at a dosage where marked primary reactivity is shown in order to induce a suitable antibody level.Adjuvants are particularly useful in cases where the antigen alone does not stimulate high levels of antibody. A main function of an adjuvant is to raise the antibody response to levels which will ensure protection against an infectious disease. Any material used as an adjuvant in vaccines should be non toxic, relatively easily metabolized and produce little or no skin reaction at the injection site. The present invention provides a novel antigen composition containing certain compounds which ha o not heretofore been used as adjuvants. These compounds meet the above noted requirements for vaccine use and result in a higher antigenic capability than prior known adjuvants.The present invention utilizes, as the adjuvant, an ester of a long chain alcohol and an amino acid. Such esters are generally insoluble or only slightly soluble in aaueous solutions at neutral pH. The esters may be used as such or in the form of a quaternary salt, such as, the hydrochloride salt. The long chain alcohol may be any alkanol of the general formula R OH, where R is an alkyl group containing 10 to 22 and preferably 12 to 22 carbon atoms. The alkyl group is usually an n alkyl group, and examples of suitable alcohols include n decanol, n dodecanol, myristyl alcohol, cetyl alcohol and n octadecanol. The amino acid may be any amino acid of the formula EMI2.1 where R1 is hydrogen or an organic group. The alkylene group is usually a CCH group, i.e., the amino acid is usually an O amino acid. Examples of amino acids which may be used include leucine, tyrosine and tryptophane. A particularly preferred material is the ester of octadecanol and tyrosine, which has been found to be particularly effective as an adjuvant. Octadecyl tyrosine may be used in the form of its hydrochloride salt. The esters used in this invention may be formed by any convenient ester forming process. For example, the alcohol and amino acid may be heated together under reflux while hydrogen chloride gas is bubbled through the mixture, followed by purification and isolation of the ester as the hydrochloride salt. An amino acid ester is added to an antigen, which is bacterial or viral, to provide the antigen compositions of the invention. The use of the octadecyl tyrosine with tetanus toxoid and poliomyelitis vaccine have been found to be particularly effective. The quantity of adjuvant used depends on the antigen with which it is used and the antigen dosage to be applied.Usually the quantity of amino acid ester added is within the range conventionally used for adjuvants. For example, in the case of tetanus toxoid, where the normal dose is about 30 Lf ml, quantities of adjuvant of about 0.3 to about 2 mg ml may be used. The invention is illustrated further by the followingExamples Example 1 This Example illustrates the preparation of octadecyl tyrosine hydrochloride. Octadecanol 8g and l tyrosine 3g were placed in a 250 ml round bottomed flask together with a magnetic stirring bar. The flask was fitted with a reflux condenser and heated to about 1200C for 3 hours. During this time the mixture was stirred and dry hydrochloric acid gas continuously bubbled through at a slow rate. After cooling the mixture, ethyl ether 50 ml was added. On standing, the mixture formed a slurry which was centrifuged. The precipitate was washed three times with ether to remove octadecanol. The ether washed precipitate consisted of unreacted tyrosine and octadecyl tyrosine hydrochloride. The washed precipitate was suspended in water and the pH adjusted to 8.0 to produce the free base. After drying, the precipitate was extracted with ether to dissolve the octadecyl tyrosine free base. Octadecyl tyrosine hydrochloride was obtained by saturating the ether solution with dry hydrogen chloride gas. The yield was 1.25 g of the hydrochloride yield 16 . Analysis for nitrogen gave 2.96 calculated 2.98 giving an estimated purity equivalent to 99 .Example 2 This Example sets forth procedures for the preparation of suspensions of octadecyl tyrosine and antigen. Procedure A Tetanus toxoid solution 10 ml, 30 Lf ml, pH 7.0 was placed in a container with a magnetic stirring bar. An ether solution of octadecyl tyrosine 0.3 ml, 30 mg ml was added, the mixture stirred rapidly and the ether removed under vacuum. The resulting cloudy solution was stirred at room temperature for 24 hours. The supernatant, after centrifuging, contained no detectable tetanus toxoid. Procedure B To tetanus toxoid solution 10 ml, 30 Lf ml,pH 7.0 was added dry octadecyl tyrosine base 10 mg and the miture stirred for 24 hours at room temperature. After this time no detectable tetanus toxoid was found in the supernatant. Octadecyl tyrosine base dissolved in ether can be sterilized by filtration so that the procedures can be carried out aseptically.Example 3 Three groups of seven guinea pigs were injected with a dose of an antigen composition 1 tetanus toxoid adsorbed on octadecyl tyrosine, 2 tetanus toxoid adsorbed on aluminum phosphate, and 3 plain tetanus toxoid, respectively. After four weeks the animals were bled and the antibody titres determined.All three groups were then given a second dose of unadjuvanted tetanus toxoid. Two and one half weeks later they were bled and the antibody titres measured. The results are given in the following Table I TABLE I Antibody Units ml Units mlGroup lst Treatment 2nd Treatment 4 Weeks 6 1 2 weeks 1 30 Lf Tetanus Toxoid 1 mg ml 5 Lf Toxoid 2.54 0.4 7 a 18 2.7 6 Octadecyl Tyrosine 1 ml 0.5 ml subcutaneous subcutaneous 2 30 Lf Tetanus Toxoid 3 mg ml 5 Lf Toxoid 2.35 0.3 7 9.7 1.1 6 ALPO4 1 ml subcutaneous 0.5 ml subcutaneous 3 30 Lf Tetanus Toxoid 1 ml 5 Lf Toxoid 1.39 0.2 7 7.2 1.2 6 subcutaneous 0.5 ml subcutaneous a The bracketed figures show the number of animals.Note After secondary stimulus SIX AND ONE HALF WEEKS AFTER FIRST INJECTION octadecyl tyrosine tetanus toxoid gave a significantly greater antibody response than did tetanus toxoid without adjuvant p .01 .0001 and a better response than AlPO4 tetanus toxoid p .05 .01 . It can be seen from the results of Table I that after four weeks there is very little difference in the titres of the three groups. However, after the second injection there is a very significant difference in the antibody titres in the group receiving their primary stimulus with toxoid containing the octadecyl tyrosine. The footnote to Table I indicates the degrees of significance.Example 4 Six guinea pigs which had been sensitized to tetanus toxoid were tested for local skin reactions.Three tetanus toxoids were used for the test unaltered toxoid, heptadecylamine toxoid and octadecyl tyrosine toxoid. Animals were given 2 Lf in 0.1 ml and the diameters of the reactions read 20 hours after the injections. The results are shown in the following Table II TABLE II Material Dose Diameter in mm l. Unaltered Tetanus 2 Lf 0.l ml 17 1.47 6 Toxoid 2. Heptadecylamine 2 Lf O.l ml 11 0.97 6 Tetanus Toxoid 3. Octadecyl Tyrosine 2 Lf 0.l ml 8.3 0.67 6 Toxoid The diameters obtained for the octadecyl tyrosine toxoid reported in the above Table II were statistically smaller than those obtained for the other toxoids.Example 5 The animals remaining from Example 3 were examined for evidence of reaction at the site of the subcutaneous injections. With the guinea pigs that had received toxoid plus aluminum phosphate there were distinctly palpable nodules of diameter about 8 mm. With the guinea pigs receiving octadecyl tyrosine very small nodules of diameter 2 to 3 mm only were detected in some, but not all, guinea pigs. It should be noted that while the aluminum phosphate was added at a concentration of 3 mg ml and the octadecyl tyrosine contained only 1 mg ml, the octadecyl tyrosine toxoid was a better adjuvant at this level than the aluminum phosphate. Example 6 Three different preparations namely, plain unadsorbed poliomyelitis vaccines Types 1, 2 and 3 , the same poliomyelitis vaccine containing aluminum phosphate as adjuvant and poliomyelitis vaccine containing octadecyl tyrosine. Each preparation was injected into groups of 8 guinea pigs each as undiluted vaccine and at 1 10 and 1 100 dilutions. Four weeks after injection the animals were bled, antibody levels were measured and a secondary stimulus of plain poliomyelitis vaccine injected.After a further three weeks the animals were bled and antibody levels determined. The results are shown in the following Table III TABLE III Potency Relative to Unadsorbed Vaccine 1 Preparation Type 1 Type 2 Type 3Poliomyelitis Vaccine with 13.8 3.24 8.51Octadecyl TyrosinePoliomyelitis Vaccine with 2.63 1.66 6.17Aluminum PhosphateNote 1 Determined by comparison of ED50 It is evident from the results of the above TableIII that the vaccine containing octadecyl tyrosine gave higher antibody response than either of the other two preparations. If the results are assessed in terms of relative potency of the vaccines, the octadecyl tyrosine is 13.8, 3.2 and 8.5 times more potent than the plain vaccine for types 1, 2 and 3 respectively. It is more potent than the vaccine containing aluminum phosphate by factors of 5.2, 1.9 and 1.4 for the three virus types. These results imply that a considerable saving of vaccine could be realized using the octadecyl tyrosine adjuvanted material without loss of efficacy. In summary of this disclosure, the present invention provides a new adjuvant for antigenic compositions which is more effective than conventional adjuvants. Modifications are possible within the scope of this invention.