# Hair conditioning preparations.

## Abstract
A conditioning preparation for application to the hu man scalp to promote hair growth or at least minimise the loss of hair includes a base material and 5 to 15 of vitamin E oil and 5 to 15 of almond oil. Commonly known herbal ingredients and perfume additives may also be in cluded in the conditioning preparation. One particular pre paration includes 60 to 88 of a base material comprising an homogenized mixture of 80 cholesterol cream and 20 bees wax, 5 to 15 of vitamin E oil, 5 to 15 of almond oil, and 2 to 10 of powdered camomile flowers.

## Claims
C L A I M S 1. A conditioning preparation including a base material together with 5 to 15 per cent of vitamin E1 oil and 5 to 15 per cent of almond oil. 2. A conditioning preparation suitable for application to the human scalp including a quantity of base material to which is added from 5 to 15 per cent of vitamin Et oil and from 5 to 15 per cent of almond oil. 3. A conditioning preparation as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the vitamin E oil and almond oil each constitute 7 per cent of the total mixture. 4. A conditioning preparation suitable for application to the human scalp including about 60 to 88 per cent of a base material comprising an homogenised mixture of cholesterol cream with protein and bees wax in the ratio of about 80 per cent cholesterol cream with protein to about 20 per cent bees wax to which base is added 5 to 15 per cent of vitamin lEt oil, from 5 to 15 per cent of almond oil and from 2 to 10 per cent of camomile powdered flowers. 5. A conditioning preparation as claimed in claim 4 wherein the base material comprises 75 per cent of the total mixture, the vitamin E and almond oils, each comprise 10 per cent, while the powdered camomile flowers comprise 5 per cent weight in volume of the total mixture. 6. A conditioning preparation as claimed in any preceding claim in which the base material is selected from any of the Bases 1 to 8 as hereinbefore described.

## Description
The invention relates to conditioning preparXtions and more particularly to conditioning preparations to be applied to the human scalp. A great many conditioning preparations are on the market and for many of these claims are mode to promote hair growth or at least to minimise loss of hair. This invention is concerned with preparations of this nature. According to one aspect of the invention, a conditioning preparation includes a base material together with 5 to 15 per cent of vitamin E oil and 5 to 15 per cent of almond oil. According to a further aspect, a conditioning preparation suitable for application to the human scalp includes a quantity of base material to which is added from 5 to 15 per cent of vitamin E oil and from 5 to 15 per cent of almond oil. Preferably, the preparation contains 7 per cent of each of the vitamin oil and almond oil. according to yet a further aspectof the invention, a conditioning preparation suitable for application to the human scalp includes from 60 per cent to about 88 per cent of a base material comprising an homogenised mixture of cholesterol cream with protein and bees wax in the ratio of about 80 per cent cholesterol cream with protein to about 20 per cent bees wax to which base is added from 5 to 15 per cent vitamin E oil, from 5 to 15 per cent of almond oil and from 2 to 10 per cent of powdered camomile flowers. Preferably, the vitamin E oil and almond oil each comprise 10 per cent while the powdered camomile flowers comprise 5 per cent weight in volume of the total mixture. In order to illustrate the invention a series of suitable base formulations will now be described as follows EASE 1. Cetostearyl alcohol 5.8 per cent Triethanolamine 1.5 per cent Nipigin M 0.1 per cent Cetrimide 0.5 per cent add Water 92.1 per centBASE 2. Stearic acid 20.9 gm Cetyl alcohol 2.9 gm Triethanolamine 2.0 ml Propylene glycol 10.0 ml Light liquid paraffin 2.0 ml Borax 14.9 gm Water 450.0 ml Nipigin M 0.7 gm Heat together the stearic acid, cetyl alcohol, liquid paraffin, trietbanolamine, propylene glycol with the water and then add the nipigin M and borax dissolved in hot water, Finaily 10 ml of a strong ammonia and, solution is added the mixture is stirred until homogeneous. The mixture is then cooled and further water is added, with stirring, to achieve the required volume. BASE 3 Stearyl alcohol 18 parts by weight Cetyl alcohol 4 parts by weight Triethanolwmine 2 parts by weight Glycerol 5 parts by weight Water 71 parts by weight The stearyl alcohol and cetyl alcohol are melted together while the triethanolamine and glycerol are 0 dissolved in the water and heated to 80 C. To the solution is added the melted stearyl and cetyl alcohols with constant stirring until cool.BASE 4 Stearic acid 160 gm Water 720 ml Heat together until boiling and then add the following ingredients which have been premixed. Strong ammonia solution 10 ml. Water 160 ml Glycerine 20 ml Stir until cool and add 0.1 gm nipigin M as a preservative.BASE 5 Cholesterol cream 80 per cent mixed with 20 per cent bees wax heated and homogenised. BASE 6 Cholesterol cream or Lanolin 50 per cent Vitamin S oil 25 per cent Almond oil or Olive oil 25 per centBASE 7 Cetyl alcohol 15 gm Glycerol 5 gm Sodium Lauryl Sulphate 1.5 gm Water 200.0 ml 0 Melt the alcohol and glycerol together at 70 C. Dissolve the sodium lauryl sulphate in the water and heat to 700 C. Mix slowly and stir until cool.BASE 8 Cetyl alcohol 15 gm Glycerol 5 gm Cetyl Methylammonium Chloride 1.5 gnL Water 200 ml elt alcohol and glycerol together at 700 C dissolve the cetyl methylammonium chloride in the water 0 and heat to 70 C. tfix the two together slowly and stir until cool. Each of the above bases, except for base 6, is formulated into a conditioning preparation suitable for applicatign to the human scalp by adding to, and amalgamating with, the base 5 to 15, or more preferably 756, of vitamin E and 5 to 15, or more preferably 7 of almond oil. In the case of base 6, the concentration of vitamin E oil or the concentration of vitamin E oil and almond oil must be decreased when the base is formulated into a conditioning preparation, dilution conveniently being effected by adding additional colesterol cream or lanolin. In addition to vitamin E oil and almond oil, any of the herbal ingredients known to assist in or promote hair growth or reduce the fall of hair may be included in the conditioning preparation. Examples of suitable herbal ingredients include camomile flowers or powdered camomile flowers, tincture of marigold, birth T, nettle extract urtica dioica and urtica urens . Thus, a preferred conditioning preparation includes from 60 t. 880 o of a base material comprising a homogenized mixture ofcholesterol cream and bees wax in the ratio of about 8Xo cholesterol cream to about 20 bees wax, 5 to 15, or more preferably 10 , of vitamin E oil, 5 to 15 , or more preferably 10 ,of almond oil and 2 to 104 0, or more preferably 5, of powdered camomile flowers. Such a mixture would require thorough dispersion by shaking prior to application to the scalp. Further additives providing a perfume content, such as lavender oil, rosemary oil and sesame oil may also be incorporated in the conditioning preparation.