# Interferon proteins and method of producing same.

## Abstract
Purified human Le form interferon proteins are cha racterised and isolated by sodium dodecylsulphate poly acrylamide gradient electrophoresis as two major species of observed molecular weights 18 400 200 daltons and 20 100 200 daltons, and four minor species. Each indi ridual pure interferon species has antiviral and anticellular activity, and each major species raises antibodies which neutralise the other. The pure interferon proteins are pre pared from solutions thereof containing impurtities by anti body affinity chromatography optionally preceded by ligand affinity chromatography. Antibodies against the pure inter feron proteins are useful in antibody affinity chromatogra phy purification of crude interferon.

## Claims
Claims 1. Human Le form interferon proteins which under the SDS PAGE and staining conditions defined herein at a total interferon load of 0.9x106 IFU show two major sharp stained protein bands having antiviral interferon activity at 18,400 and 20,100 Daltons, respectively, and a minor stained protein band having antiviral interferon activity between 20,300 and 20,400 Daltons, together with smaller peaks of antiviral interferon activity at 19,500, 21,130, and 23,440 Daltons said Dalton molecular weights being subject to an experimental accuracy of 200 Daltons , said SDS PAGE acrylamide gradient showing essentially no other stained protein regions. 2. Human Le form interferon proteins as claimed in claim 1 alternatively defined as proteins which under the SDS PAGE and staining conditions defined herein at a total interferon load of 3. 8x106 IFU show six stained protein bands having antiviral interferon activity, viz. strong bands at 18,41G Daltons and 20,180Daltons, respectively, a medium strong band at 20,420 Daltons and just visible bands at 19,500 Daltons, 21,13u Daltons, and 23,440Daltons, respectively said Dalton molecular weights being subject to an experiinental accuracy of 200 Daltons , the peaks of antiviral interferon activity coinciding exactly with the stained protein bands, said SDS PAGE acrylamide gradient showbig essentially no other stained protein regions. 3. Each individual protein having antiviral interferon activity which is a component of the human Le form interferon proteins claimed in claim 1 or claim 2. 4. A protein having antiviral interferon activity as claimed in claim 3 appearing at 1S,400 200 Daltons. 5. A protein having antiviral interferon activity as claimed in claim 3 appearing at 20,100 1200 Daltons. G. A protein having antiviral interferon activty as claimed in claim 3 appearing between 20,300 and 20,400, at 19,500, at 21,130, or at 23,440 Daltons said Dalton molecular weights being subject to an experimental accuracy of 200 Daltons . 7. Proteins as claimed in claim 1 or 2 having a specific activity of at least 109 IFU per mg protein, as assessed by comparative SDSPAGE staining. 8. Proteins as claimed in claim 7 having a specific activity of 2x109IFU per mg protein, as assessed by comparative SDS PAGE staining. 9. Protein s as claimed in any of the preceding claims, additionally characterized in that they exhibit anticellular activity and potentiate the Natural Killer cell system. 10. A protein as claimed in claim 4, additionafly characterized in that it will neutralize antibodies raised against a protein as claimed in claim 5 or raised against proteins as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2. 11. A protein as claimed in claim 5, additionally characterized in that it will neutralize antibodies raised against a protein as claimed in claim 4 or raised against proteins as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2. 12. A protein as claimed in claim 3, additionally characterized in that it will neutralize antibodies raised against proteins as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2. 13. Human leukocyte interferon protein s as claimed in any preceding claim. 14. Human lymphoblastoid Namalva interferon Le form protein s as claimed in any preceding claim. 15. A formulation comprising a protein or proteins as claimed in any of the preceding clairns, said formulation being adapted for administration to human beings or animals for prophylactic, therapeutic, or immunization effect. 16. A formulation as claimed in claim 15 adapted for parenteral, intranasal, or topical administration. 17. A formulation as claimed in claim 15 in the form of a stabilized aqueous solution. 18. A formulation as claimed in claim 17 in which the stabilizer is a protein or a combination of proteins which is non toxic and nonimmunogenic in human beings. 19. A formulation as claimed in claim 18 in which the stabilizer is selected from the group consisting of human serum proteins and fractions thereof, and human albumin. 20 A formulation as claimed in any of claims 15 19 in which the concentration of the pure interferon is in the range corresponding to 1 20 million IFU per ml. 21. A formulation as claimed in claim 17 for immunizing animals, in which the stabilizer is SDS. 22. A formulation as claimed in claim 21 which is buffered withPBS with a pH of about 7.2. 23. A formulation as claimed in claim 21 or 22 which additionally contains an adjuvant. 24. A formulation as claimed in claim 23 in which the adjuvant isFreund s adjuvant. 25. An SDS complex of a protein or proteins as claimed in any of claims 1 to 14. 26. An SDS complex as claimed in claim 25 isolated in solid form. 27. Antibodies raised against, or directed substantially only against, immunological determinants of human Le form interferon proteins claimed in any of claims 1 14. 28. Antibodies as claimed in claim 27 obtained by immunizing an immunizable animal with the 18,400 2DO, the 20,100 200, or a combination of the 18,400 200 and the 20,100 1200 Daltons humanLe form interferon protein component of the proteins claimed in claim 1 or clairn 2. 29. Antibodies as claimed in claim 27 or 28 obtained by immunizing an immunizable animal with human Le form interferon protein or proteins as claimed in any of claims 1 14 obtained from the respective band or bands cut from the SDS PAGE gel. 30. Antibodies as claimed in claim 29 wherein the bands were cut from the SDS PAGE gel after staining of said gel and a short wash in distilled water. 31. A method for preparing antibodies as claimed in claim 27, comprising immunizing an immunizable animal against human Le form protein or proteins as claimed in any of claims 1 14 and obtaining antiserum from the animal. 32. A method as claimed in claim 31 in which the immunization is performed with a protein or proteins as claimed in any of claims 1 14. 33. A method as claimed in claim 32 in which the immunization is performed with the 18,400 200, the 20,100 200, or a combination of the 18,400 200 and the 20,100 1200 Daltons human Le form interferon protein component of the proteins claimed in claim 1 or claim 2. 34. A method as claimed in any of claims 31 33 in which the immunizatio.l is performed with a formulation as claimed in any of claims 17 and 21 24. 35. A method for producing antibodies as claimed in claim 27, comprising culturing a hybridoma cell clone producing antibodies directed against immunological determinants of human Le form interferon proteins and recovering antibodies from the culturing medium. 36. Antibodies when prepared by a method claimed in any of claims 31 35. 37. Antibodies as claimed in any of claims 27 30 or 36 or fragments or derivatives thereof retaining the essential antiinterferon determinants immobilized on a matrix. 35. Antibodies as claimed in claim 37 covalently bound to the matrix. 39. Antibodies as claimed in claim 38 in which the matrix is a cross linked agarose such as Sepharose 4B. 40. Matrix immobilized antibodies as claimed in any of claims 37 39 which are substantially free from proteolytic enzymatic activity. 41. Matrix immobilized antibodies as claimed in claim 40 which have been substantially freed from any proteolytic enzymatic activity by treatment with enzyme inhibitors or enzyme destructors. 42. Matrix immobilized antibodies as claimed in claim 41 for which the treatment with enzyme inhibitors or enzyme destructors has been carried out with matrix immobilized enzyme inhibitor or enzyme destructor. 43. Matrix iTrlmob Slized antibodies as claimed in claim 42 which, prior to their covalent binding to the matrix, have been passed through a column of matrix immobilized poly L lysin and or matrix immobilized Soyabean Trypsin inhibitor, and or matrix immobilized kallikrein inactivator. 44. The use of antibodies as claimed in any of claims 27 30, and 36 43 for purifying human Le form interferon containing solutions. 45. A protein having the significant interferon characterizing determinants possessed by the proteins claimed in any of claims 1 14. 46. A protein having the significant immunological determinants possessed by the proteins claimed in any of claims 1 14. 47. A method of producing human Le form interferon proteins as claimed in any of claims 1, 2, 7, and 8, comprising subjecting a solution containing human Le form interferon proteins to affinity chromatography such that said human Le form interferon proteins are selectively retained, and eluting said retained interferon proteins 48. A method as claimed in claim 47, wherein the affinity chromatography comprises antibody affinity chromatography in which the antibodies are matrix immobili2ed antibodies as claimed in any of claims 37 49. 49. A method as claimed in claim 48 in which at most 85 of the antibodies which were applied to the matrix at the immobilization stage became covalently bound. 50. A method as claimed in claim 48 or 49 in which the antibodies, prior to being bound to the matrix, had been substantially freed from any proteolytic enzrmatic activity by treatment with enzyme inhibitors and ortenzyme destructors. 51. A method as claimed in claim 50 in which the removal of the proteolytic activity had been carried out with matrix immobilized enzyme inhibitor and or enzyme destructor. 52. A method as claimed in any of claims 47 51 in which the solution applied to the antibody affinity matrix is a crude, unconcentrated interferon preparation. 53. A method as claimed in any of claims 47 51 in which the solution applied to the antibody affinity matrix is a concentrated or partially purified interferon preparation. 54. A method as claimed in any of claims 47 to 51 in which the interferon containing solution comprises the interferon containing protein fraction obtained by a protein precipitation treatment of a crude, unconcentrated interferon preparation. 55. A method as claimed in 54 in which the protein precipitation treatment includes the addition of KSCN and the adjustment of the solution pK to 4.5. 56. A method as claimed in any of claims 47 55 in which the solution applied to the antibody affinity matrix is an interferon solution which essentially only contains proteins in the 10,000 20,000 Daltons range. 57. A method as claimed in claim 56 in which the solution is the 10,000 20,000 Daltons eluate from a gel filtration performed with a buffer solution which contains about 25 by volume of a glycol such as ethylene glycol and has an ionic strength corresponding to 1 M NaCI, pK about 7.2. 58. A method as claimed in any of claims 4S 57 in which the human Le forrn irlterfelon of the solution applied to the antibody affinity matrix is selected from the group consisting of human leukocyte interferons, human lymphoblastoid interferons, and proteins as claimed in claim 45 or 46, including such proteins when produced by cultivation of a microorganism carrying DNA coding for the production of such proteins. 59. A method as claimed in any of claims 47 58 in which the affinity chromatography comprises a combination of ligand affinity chromatography and subsequent antibody affinity chromatography. 60. A method as claimed in claim 59 in which the ligand in the ligand chromatography is Cibacron F3GA or is another ligand capable of binding the human Le form interferon proteins according to the mechanism exerted by Cibacron F3GA. 61. A method as claimed in claim 60 in which the matrix immobilized ligand is selected from the group consisting of Blue Dextran 2000,Blue Sepharose C1 6B, and Blue Dextran coupled to Sepharose 4B. 62. A method as claimed in claim 60 or 61 in which the ligand is immobilized on dextran of molecular weight of about 2 million Daltons, coupled to cross lillked agarose. 63. A method as claimed in claim 62 in which the matrix immobi lized ligand material is Blue Dextran coupled covalently to Sepharose 4B. 64. A method as claimed in any of claims 60 63 in which the solution applied is an aqueous solution containing an Le form interferon in a form having a specific activity of at least 50,000 100,000 IFU per rng protein, the said solution being buffered to a pH of 6.5 8 and having an ionic strength substantially not exceeding the ionic strength of a 10 100 mM, in particular 20 mM, phosphate buffer, pM 7.2, solution, optionally together with water miscible organic solvent such as ethanol in amounts of 5 80 . 65. A method as claimed in claim 64 in which the elution is performed with an aqueous solution buffered to a pH of 6.5 8 and having an ionic strength corresponding to 0.5 0.7, in particular 0.5 0.65, molar NaCl solution. 66. A method as claimed in claim 65 in which the eluant has an ionic strength corresponding to 0.6 molar NaCl and is buffered to pH 7.2. 67. A method as claimed in any of claims 64 66 in which the pH in the solution applied and in the eluate is about 7.2. 68. A method as maimed in claim 66 or 67 in which the interferon applied to the ligand affinity chromatography matrix has a specific activity of about 50,000 1,000,000, such as 100,000 1,000,000, e.g., 200,000 1,000,000, in particular about 500,000 1,000,000,IFU per mg protein. 69. A method as claimed in any of claims 60 68 in which the human Le form interferon of the solution applied to the antibody affinity matrix is selected from the group consisting of human leukocyte interferons, human lymphoblastolc interferons, and proteins as claimed in claim 45 or 46, including such proteins when produced by cultivation of a microorganisir carrying DNA coding for the production of such proteins. 70. A method as claimed in any of claims 64 69 in which the interferon containing solution comprises the interferon containing protein fraction obtained by a protein precipitation treatment of a crude, unconcentrated interferon preparation. 71. A method as claimed in 70 in which the protein precipitation treatment includes the addition of KSCN and the adjustment of the solution pH to 4.5. 72. A method as claimed in any of claims 64 71 in which the solution applied to the antibody affinity matrix is an interferon solution which essentially only contains proteins in the 10,000 20,000 Daltons range. 73. A method as claimed in claim 72 in which the solution is the 10,000 20,000 Daltons eluate from a gel filtration performed with a buffer solution which contains about 25 by volume of a glycol such as ethylene glycol and has an ionic strength corresponding to 1M NaCl, pH about 7.2. 74. A method as claimed in any of claims 59 73 in which the eluate from the ligand affinity chromatography is loaded directly on the antibody affinity matrix. 75. A method of purifying human interferon, comprising applying an aqueous solution containing human Le form interferon protein in a form having a specific activity of at least 50.000 100,000 IFU per mg of protein, the said solution being buffered to a pH of 6.5 8 and having an ionic strength substantially not exceeding the ionic strength of a 10 100 mM, in particular 20 mM phosphate buffer, pH 7. 2 solution, optionally together with a water miscible organic solvent such as ethanol in amounts of 5 80 , on a matriximmobilized ligand capable of binding the interferon according to the mechanism exerted by Cibacron Blue F3GA, and thereafter eluting interferon thus bound. 76. A method as claimed in claim 75 when performed according to the conditions as defined in any of claims 61 63 and 65 74. 77. Human Le form interferon when prepared by the use of matriximmobilized antibodies as claimed in anp of claims 37 43 or by a method as claimed in any of c aims 47 76. 78. Human Le form interferon as claimed in claim 77, having a 6 specific activity of at least 30so06 IFU per mg protein, the protein determination being based on the Lowry y procedure using pure human albumin serum as standard. 79. Human Le form interferon as claimed in claim 78 having a specific 6 activity in the range from 30x106 to 108 IFU per mg protein 80. Human Le form interferon as claimed in claim 79 having a specific activity of 30x106 70x106 IFU per mg protein. 81. A method of producing interferon proteins or proteins having the significant biological interferon activity determinants thereof, comprising cultivating a microorganism carrying DNA coding for the production of Le form interferon proteins as claimed in any of claims 1 14 or 45, and recovering said proteins from the culture medium. 82. A method as claimed in claim 81 in which the DNA coding for the production of interferon proteins is present on a plasmid. 83. A method as claimed in claim 81 or 82 in which the DNA coding for the production of the interferon proteins has been prepared by treatment, with reverse transcriptase, of messenger RNA isolated from interferon producing cells in a manner known per se and comprising the stage of antibody affinity chromatography and or immunoprecipitation on a lysate of the cells, the antibody being used in the antibody affinity chromatography or in the immune precipitation being an antibody as claimed in any of claims 27 30 or 36. 84. A method as claimed in any of claims 81 83 in which the interferon producing clones of the microorganism have been selected by means of radio labelled monospecific antibodies as claimed in any of claims 27 to 30 or 36. 85. A method of removing proteins which are immunogenic in man from a protein solution which is to be administered to human beings, comprising subjecting the protein solution to an antibody affinity chromatography using antibodies against the immunogenic proteins, the antibodies used in the antibody affinity chromatography being of a kind which are non immunogenic on parenteral administration to human beings. 86. A method as claimed in claim 85 in which the antibodies used in the antibody affinity chromatography are primate immunoglobulins or pig IgG immunoglobulins. 87. A method as claimed in claim 85 or 86 in which the protein solution subjected to the antibody affinity chromatography is an eluate from an antibody affinity chromatography using animal immunoglobulins which are immunogenic in man, such as sheep or rabbit immunoglobulins. 88. Matrix immobilized antibodies for antibody affinity chromatography, the antibodies being pig IgG immunoglobulins. 89. A process of purifying protein containing solutions for administration to human beings by antibody affinity chromatography wherein the antibodies are matrix immobilized pig IgG immunoglobulins. 90. A method of concentrating proteins from a protein containing and SD S containing aqueous solution, comprising precipitating SDS or a salt thereof from the solution to obtain a precipitate comprising a complex or complexes of SDS or a salt thereof with the protein, separating the precipitate from the solution, e. g. by centrifugation at 0 40C, and redissolving the precipitate in a smaller liquid volume. 91. A method as claimed in claim 90 in which the precipitation of the SDS is obtained by a lowering the temperature to OOC for about 15 minutes, or b adding a salt, e.g., a K salt, which forms a precipitate with SDS or with SDS protein complexes. 92. A method as claimed in claim 90 or 91 in which the proteincontaining aqueous solution is a solution of pure or purified interferon. 93. A method as claimed in claim 92 in which the pure interferon is claimed in any of claims 1 14. 94. A method as claimed in any of claims 90 93 in which SDS is present in the solution in a concentration of 0.1 4 per cent by weight, preferably about 0.1 per cent by weight.

## Description
The present invention relates to the purification of human interferon, to a purified form of human interferon and antibodies thereto, and to purification and preparative methods relevant thereto.As used herein, the term protein includes glycoprotein . Many attempts have been made to purify human interferon. The objectives of such purification attempts have included a complete characterization of the interferon species for standardization purposes. To date, none of the attempts to purify human Le form interferon have been completely successful.This invention is based on the discovery of purification methods which permit the preparation, for the first time, of all the components of human Le form interferon protein substantially free of inactive and otherwise undesirable impurities.The Le form of interferon is defined in a paper by E.A. Havell,B. Berman, C.A. Ogburn, K. Berg, K. Paucker, and J. Vilcek,Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA, 72, 2185 2187 1975 .According to the invention, pure human leukocyte interferon proteins have been prepared from crude human leukocyte interferon through a number of special purification steps, and the pure human leukocyte interferon has been characterized by stained protein bands in SDS PAGE sodium dodecylsulfate polyacrylamide gradient electrophoresis .The particular experimental conditions used for the first preparation and characterization of the pure human leukocyte interferon proteins appear from the below sections Materials and Methods and Experimental Section . Some of the products and procedures involved in the preparation and characterization of the pure interferon proteins are novel per se and constitute aspects of the invention of general applicability within interferon technology and, in a broader sense, in protein purification technology.The pure human interferon proteins, and especially, pure human Le form interferon proteins, now made available and characterized according to the invention, are in themselves aspects of the i ion and constitute the key to further new developments which are alse aspects of the invention and which are explained and illustrated ti the present specification.In several repeated experiments, it has been established that under the SDS PAGE and staining conditions described in the section 6 Materials and Methods , at a total interferon load of 0.9 x 106 IFU, pure human leukocyte interferon shows essentially only two sharp stained protein bands at 18,400 200 and 20,100 200 Daltons, respectively, and a minor stained protein band between 20,300 200 and 20,400 200 Daltons. As determined by the protein determination described below, the pure human leukocyte interferon has a specific activity of about 109 IFU per mg of protein the specific activity found may vary to some extent depending upon the protein determination method employed, and the specific 8 activity on a protein weight basis is judged to be 2 x 108 2x109 IFU per mg of protein.The fact that the pure interferon shows two major distinct bands is in accordance with prior art findings using crude or partially purified interferon preparations which indicated that human leukocyte interferon comprises at least two major species. At a higher total interferon load, e.g., of 106 3.8 x 106 IFU, the above mentioned SDS PAGE system has been found to be capable of showing a more differentiated protein pattern comprising six interferon protein bands, i.e. the two strongly stained bands at 18,410 200 Daltons and 20,180 200Daltons, respectively, a medium stained band at 20,420 200Daltons corresponding to the above mentioned minor stained band and just visible protein bands at 19,500 200 Daltons, 21,130 200Daltons, and 23,440 1200 Daltons, respectively.Each of the individual components in the above mentioned bands of the SDSPAGE acrylamide gradient gel has been found to show biological interferon activities antiviral activity, ability to neutralize only anti human leukocyte interferon but not anti human fibroblast interferon , and anticellular activity, plus a variety of so called non viral activities, as exemplified by potentiation of Natural Killer cells, potentiation of MLC CML, increase of HLA antigens, etc. The complete purification of interferon proteins makes it possible, for the first time, to produce anti interferon which is strictly specific to the active species simply by immunizing animals with the pure interferon preparation or one or more of its components.Such strictly monospecific anti interferon is extremely useful for antibody affinity chromatography for purification of crude or partially purified interferon to obtain, in a simple and economic way, large amounts of pure interferon or highly purified interferon for clinical purposes, standardization, chemical studies, sequence studies, and as immunogen for repeated preparation of monospecific antiinterferon.It is within the scope of the present invention not only to purify human leukocyte interferon by means of the monospecific antibody raised against the pure human leukocyte interferon, but also to purify other interferon types which cross react immunologically with the monospecific anti interferon, e.g. Namalva interferon human lymphoblastoid interferons the Le form interferonconstitutes about 85 of the biological activity of human lymphoblastoid or Namalva interferon, vide E.A. Havell, Y.K. Yip, andJ. Vilcek, Characterization of human lymphoblastoid Namalva interferon , J. gen. Virol., 38, 51 59, 1977 , and interferon containing the Le form obtained by cultivation of a microorganism carrying DNA coding for the production of interferon proteins or proteins having the significant biological interferon activity determinants .The monospecific anti interferon is also useful for establishing in a manner known per se a genetic engineering system for production of interferon protein In accordance with known methods within genetic engineering, the first stage is the isolation of messengerRNA from interferon producing cells in which the interferon synthesis has been triggered by means of an interferon inducer and has reached a degree of completion of the synthesis of interferon proteins at which the immunological determinants or parts thereof of the interferon have been expressed, while at the same time, the interferon is still attached to the ribosomes and the messenger RNA.A high clone producing Namalva cell suspension grown in the usual way or buffy coats or lymphocytes isolated by Ficoll technique is preferred as the interferon producing cells. The messenger RNA is isolated from such cells by lysing the cells in a manner known per se and passing the lysate through an antibody affinity column where the antibody bound covalently is the monospecific anti interferon.The antibody column selectively retains not only the interferon, but also the attached messenger RNA. By known methods, such as salt elution, the messenger RNA is isolated from the eluate from the column and is, also, by known methods, treated with reverse transcriptase to obtain the corresponding DNA. Alternatively, immunoprecipitation methods known per se , possibly combined with double immunoprecipitation techniques, may be used. In accordance with known methods within genetic engineering techniques, such DNA coding for interferon or important parts thereof is incorporated in a suitable cloning vector, preferably a miniplasmid, and transformed into a microorganism, the culturing of which produces interferon and or interferon derivatives released in the culturing medium, from which the interferon is obtained.The purification of such interferon obtained by cultivation of the microorganism can suitably be performed in the same manner as described above by passing the crude preparation through an antibody affinity column made by means of monospecific anti interferon. Radiolabelled monospecific anti interferon may be a valuable tool in the assessment of which clones of the microorganism have received the DNA and are capable of producing interferon or parts or derivatives thereof. 6At the interferon load of 0.9 x 106 IFU, the pure human leukocyte interferon proteins appear as the above mentioned three individual protein bands in the SDS PAGE acrylamide gradient gel, together with five six biological peaks. Whether five or six biological bands are found depends on the exact places at which the gel slice is cut. Reference is made to Fig. 1 which shows a stained SDS PAGE gradient gel slab prepared at this load as described in the section Materials and Methods below. Each of the protein bands has been shown to possess distinct interferon activity. Reference is made toFig. 2 which is a drawing of an SDS slab from another experiment at the same interferon load, Fig. 2 also showing the interferon activity profile associated with the bands, determined as explained under Materials and Methods below. Five biological interferon peaks are seen, together with three distinct stained proteins. From Fig. 2 it can be seen, unambiguously, that the protein bands coincide strictly with the peaks of interferon activity. This proves that the proteins are interferon proteins. It is important to note that the interferon activity profile will, of course, depend upon the exact position of the individual slicings of the gel. In Fig. 2, the individual interferon activity of the minor band at 20,410 200Daltons is not so evident, but in other experiments at the same interferon load, it was shown that the minor band itself possesses interferon activity, and in experiments with a higher load, vide below, the minor band was found to be a distinct interferon subspecies. The amount of interferon activity from the SDS PAGE found in the corresponding interferon protein slices corresponds linearily with the amount of protein as assessed from the intensity of the staining of the protein bands.Thus, the unambiguous existence of the two major interferon proteins and the minor band has been demonstrated in the experiments illustrated in Figs. 1 and 2. In experiments where the interferon load in the system was higher, the above mentioned more detailed band pattern was demonstrated, such as illustrated in Fig. 3 six interferon proteins together with six biological peaks determined after staining and destaining .As it is known that interferon treated with SDS will retain its immunological determinants and even expresses or preserves its antigenicity in a more distinct way compared to non SDS treated interferon as shown by immunizations of mice with human leukocyte interferon preparations of Paucker et al. Dalton, B.f., Ogburn,C. A., Paucker, K., Production of antibodies to human interferons in mice Infect. Immun. 19 2 , 570 574 1978 , pp 4 25 30 , preparative SDS PAGE makes it possible to not only obtain each of the components in isolated form, but also to perform immunization with the isolated components, such as illustrated in greater detail below.Expressed with reference to specific activity, the invention relates to human interferon or species thereof having a specific activity of about 2 x 108 2 x 109 IFU per mg protein. However, since the methodology concerning the protein determination varies considerably, the actual figure of the specific activity is of less importance compared to the clear demonstration, by SDS PAGE, of the individual species. The pure interferon proteins of the invention are, therefore, more suitably expressed as human Le form interferon proteins which under the SDS PAGE and staining conditions defined herein at a total interferon load of 0.9 x 106 IFU show two major sharp stained protein bands having antiviral interferon activity at 18,400 and 20,100 Daltons, respectively, and a minor stained protein band having antiviral interferon activity between 20,300 and 20,400Daltons, together with smaller peaks of antiviral interferon activity at 19,500, 21,130, and 23,440 Daltons said Dalton molecular weights being subject to an experimental accuracy of 1200 Daltons , saidSDS PAGE acrylamide gradient showing essentially no other stained protein regions or as human Le form interferon proteins which under the SDS PAGE and staining conditions defined herein at a 6 total interferon load of 3.8 x 10 IFU show six stained protein bands having antiviral interferon activity, viz. strong bands at 18,410 Daltons and 20,180 Daltons, respectively, a medium strong band at 20,420 Daltons and just visible bands at 19,500 Daltons, 21,130 Daltons, and 23,440 Daltons, respectively said Dalton molecular weights being subject to an experimental accuracy of 200 Daltons , the peaks of antiviral interferon activity coinciding exactly with the stained protein bands, said SDS PAGE acrylaniide gradient showing essentially no other stained protein regions.It is important to note that the individual components in the abovementioned bands of the SDS PAGE gel show biological interferon activity, ability to neutralize anti human leukocyte interferon, and anticellular activity, etc. The invention also relates to each of the individual components represented by each of the above mentioned individual SDS PAGE bands, as well as to any protein having the significant biological interferon activity determinant s possessed by the individual components, and to any protein having the significant immunological determinant s possessed by the individual components.With respect to origin, the human interferon proteins of the invention may be derived from human leukocyte interferon prepared using human cells or from cultured human lymphoblastoid Namalva cells, or from proteins prepared by cultivation of a microorganism containing DNA coding for the interferon or an important part thereof, such as described above, but also human Le form inter ferons of other origin, but conforming with the above characte ristics, are within the scope of the present invention. It is wellknown that human Le form interferon shows a number of important therapeutic aspects in man, including antiviral and anti tumor activity, and the provision of the pure human Le form inter feron makes it possible to further exploit these useful properties. One aspect of the invention comprises a formulation comprising the pure human Le form interferon protein or proteins adapted for administration to human beings or animals for prophylactic, thera peutic, or immunization effect. Such a formulation may, e.g., be adapted for parenteral, intranasal, or topical administration. A most useful formulation of the pure interferon proteins of the present invention is an aqueous solution. Pure interferon proteins in aqueous solution should be stabilized, and the choice of stabi lizer will depend upon the use of the solution. When the solution is to be used for administration to human beings, e.g, parenteral administration, the stabilizer should be a physiologically acceptable stabilizer, and a suitable stabilizer is a protein or combination of proteins which is non toxic and non immunogenic in human beings, such as human serum proteins and fractions thereof, and human albumin. A typical preferred stabilizer is 1 human albumin. The normal concentration of pure interferon proteins in compositions for parenteral administration to human beings will be in the range corresponding to 1 20 million IFU per ml, and a normal daily dose will be 3 to 10 million, e.g. 5 to 10, million IFU totally, pre ferably administered once or twice a day by intramuscular injection When preparing solutions of pure interferon for administration to human beings, normal pharmaceutical precautions which are custo marily taken in connection with the preparation of parenteral com positions, will also be observed, such as precautions to ensure sterility and freedom from pyrogenicity. When the stabilized formulation of the invention is an aqueous solution of pure human Le form interferon protein s to be used for immunization of animals for the preparation of monospecific anti interferon, stabilization with SDS sodium dodecylsulfate to form an SDS complex of the human Le form interferon protein s is a preferred stabilization in view of the above mentioned fact thatSDS increases the antigenicity and or stability of interferon.As explained in greater detail below, the pure interferon SDS combination or complex may be formed simply by adding SDS to the aqueous pure interferon proteins, preferably in a concentration of about 0.1 by weight, calculated on the solution, at pH 7.2 TheSDS complex of the human Le form interferon protein or proteins constitutes, in itself, a valuable aspect of the present invention because of the stability thereof, and a most interesting form of such complex, well suited for storage and transport suitably at low temperature, e.g., at a temperature of at the most 40C or preferably 20 C, is when isolated in solid form such as described below. The use of other stabilizers of the detergent type for this purpose is within the scope of the present invention.A further preferred form of the pure human Le form interferon proteins is a form in which they are bound to Cibacron Blue F3GA or another ligand capable of binding the interferon proteins according to the mechanism exhibited by Cibacron Blue F3GA, such as will be explained in greater detail below.The pH of the pure interferon protein solution for immunization of animals to prepare the monospecific anti interferon is preferably about 7.2, and a suitable buffer is PBS phosphate buffered saline The stabilized pure interferon protein preparation for immunization of animals may additionally comprise an adjuvant to further increase the antigenicity, and one suitable adjuvant is Freund s adjuvant.It is also within the scope of the invention to increase and or stabilize the antigenicity of the pure Le form interferon proteins or each member thereof by coupling to an immunogenic carrier so as to present the pure interferon protein or proteins as a sort of hapten in accordance with wellknown principles. As examples of immunogenic carriers may be mentioned PPD Purified ProteinDerivative and BCG Bacille Calmette Guérin . However, the use of such immunogenic carriers is not presently preferred.For immunization purposes, mouse, rabbit, goat and sheep are preferred animals, but it is also within the scope of the invention to use other animals, and as described below, pig IgG immunoglobulins show distinct advantages for certain purposes.In principle, the immunization of animals against the pure interferon is performed in accordance with known methods for preparation of anti interferon, such as described, for example in Acta Path. Microbiol. Scand. Section B, 83, 443 460 1975 , but the fact that the interferon proteins of the invention are pure gives rise to minor variations with respect to the concentration of the immunogen and the immunization time and intervals. Examples of immunization schedules appear from the Experimental Section .The bleeding of the animal and the isolation of antiserum are performed in accordance with wellknown methods.The antibodies prepared as described above, are, apart from the trivial fact that they show a natural background characteristic of the animal immunized, substantially specific to the interferon proteins characterized by the above mentioned SDS PAGE bands. An extremely small amount of impurities not seen as stained bands in the SDS PAGE together with the interferon protein cannot be ruled out. Such proteins which may represent small amounts corresponding to about 1 5 of the total protein content in the pure interferon protein preparation might trigger antibodies against the corresponding impurities.One way of checking such a possibility is to construct an anti interferon column of the relevant antiserum, obtained by immunizing a rabbit with the pure interferon that is interferon of the above described characterization which in SDS PAGE gives the visible interferon protein bands at a load of 1 4 x 106 IFU in total . The column is constructed without any absorption at all.Crude human leukocyte interferon is loaded to the column, and a normal antibody affinity chromatography is performed, vide below. The eluate is analyzed in an SDS PAGE vide below , and only the interferon bands should then be seen possibly together with 1 4 other proteins impurities . This three proteins was in fact seen on rabbit anti serum with a titer of 500,000 IFU NU ml in a 2 ml column, loading 2 3 x 106 IFU of crude human leukocyte interferonsThe foreign proteins might also appear by simple spontaneous cross reaction which by chance takes place.The above mentioned method of checking whether particular antibodies are monospecific is believed to be novel per se and constitutes a further aspect of the present invention. This aspect is a method for checking whether a particular antibody preparation e.g., an antiserum , is monospecific to its particular antigen, comprising constructing an antibody affinity chromatography column by means of the antibody preparation to be checked, loading a solution containing the antigen plus impurities to the column, and analyzing the eluate from the column to ascertain the presence of any protein different from the antigen.Preferably, the latter analysis is performed by SDS PAGE gradient in the same manner as discussed in connection with the present use of the method in determining the monospecificity of anti interferon, and the occurrence of bands corresponding to at the most 4 impurity proteins in the eluate will generally be considered a satisfactory indication of monospecificity for most practical uses of the antibody preparation. As the stained interferon protein bands in the SDS PAGE have preserved their antigenicity completely or to a considerable extent, it is also possible to use the stained interferon proteins directly cut out from an SDS PAGE as antigen preparations for immunizing immunizable animals such as rabbits. When the stained band cut out from the SDS PAGE is used for the immunization after preparation described below , a possible cross over reaction or contamination from extremely small amounts of impurities as discussed above is less likely compared to the total eluate representing 5 interferon species .Thus, antibodies versus the individual species of interferon primarily the two major species at about 18,400 and 20,100 Daltons with optimum specificity may be produced according to the following protocol 1. 4 5 x 106 IFU human leukocyte interferon as CIF is purified completely by means of the tandem affinity chromatography described below and subjected to SDS PAGE.2. The gel is only stained for 10 15 minutes at room temperature and is partially destained for 10 minutes followed by a wash in distilled water three times, done in 1 2 minutes with OOC distilled water. The exact location of the protein bands is noted for example by means of a Polaroid photo , and the two major interferon protein species are specifically removed by cutting out with a sharp knife.Each slice is minced by means of a teflon rod in 1 ml 0.01 SDS in PBS, pH 7.2 and is thereafter injected subcutaneously into a rabbit. By following this procedure every second week, low titered antibodies against the human leukocyte interferon proteins are developed in 2 4 months. As soon as a low titer against interferon is detected, Freund s adjuvant is added to the immunogenic mixture every fourth time every 4th to 6th week depending on the development of the titers.This procedure is continued for 3 12 months and anti interferon against the interferon species is developed 10,000 1,000,000 IFU NU ml . Thus, the term monospecific anti interferon is used both in relation to anti interferon produced by means of the pure interferon proteins as described above without the step of cutting out from SDS PAGE, and in relation to the antibodies raised against the stained interferon band or bands cut out from the SDS PAGE.A further method for producing monospecific antibodies against interferon proteins is the so called hybridoma technique. The hybridoma technique is a well known method for preparing antibodies and comprises the establishment of monoclonal antibodyproducing lymphocytes myeloma hybrids compare, for example, Current topics in Microbiology and Immunology, Vol. 81, Lymphocyte Hybridomas, Eds. F. Melchors, M. Potter, and N.L.Warner, Springer Verlag, 1978 . However, until the present invention, it was not known or obvious that it would be possible to obtain an anti interferon producing hybridoma cell clone. In the hybridoma technique, using, for example, mouse as the animal immunized, mice are immunized with human Le form interferon and spleen cells from the immunized mice are fused with myeloma cells, whereafter the fused hybridoma are cloned, antibody producing clones are selected and cultured, and antibodies are obtained from the culturing medium.Antibodies prepared by hybridoma technique in a mouse system are strictly monospecific and are therefore especially advantageous in radioimmunoassays or other similar tests.In the hybridoma technique, one particular way of obtaining the antibody is to culture the selected clones in vivo in the animal species from which the spleen cells were derived, and harvesting antibody from the ascites fluid of the animal, and such embodiment is within the scope of the present invention.The selection of positive hybridoma clones may be performed by the usual interferon neutralization test. However, as the usual interferon neutralization test, as a prerequisite, requires that the antigenic determinant of the interferon is located very close to the center s of the biological activity within a distance of about 1IgG molecule length , it is likely that antigenic determinants located further away from the center s of the biological activity activities will not be detected by this test, and it is, hence, likely that positive hybridoma clones producing antibodies against antigenic determinants on the interferon protein which are located at a distance from the biological center which is greater than the length of 1 IgG molecule will escape detection in the test.Therefore, a more advantageous technique for testing for positive hybridoma clones is to use radio labelled pure human Le interferon proteins of the invention in a radioimmunoassay. The radio labelled pure human Le interferon proteins can be made by radio labelling human Le interferon, e.g., a gel filtrate made by the gel filtration technique described below, by means of a standard radio labelling technique such as using lactoperoxidase and iodine 135, and then purifying the interferon proteins in the manner described herein, subjecting the purified interferon proteins to SDS PAGE.and eluting the radio labelled pure interferon proteins from the SDS PAGE gel.Another method for selecting the positive hybridoma clones in a manner which will detect also such clones that are not detected in the usual interferon neutralization test comprises subjecting an amount, e.g., 500 pl, of the supernatant from each clone cultivation to immobilization on a matrix, e.g., immobilization on CNBr activatedSepharose according to the method described in the section Materials and Methods , applying human Le form interferon, e.g. crude human leukocyte interferon, to the resulting treated matrix, e.g., by mixing the resulting matrix gel suspension corresponding to each clone with the interferon and allowing the mixture to stand for a period, e.g., 1 hour at 37 OC, effectively separating unbound interferon from the matrix material, e.g., by centrifugation and washing with PBS, and thereafter subjecting each matrix gel portion to elution to release any bound interferon, e.g. by mixing with elution buffer pH 2.4 and centrifugating, and selecting the clones corresponding to the matrix gel portions from which the eluting buffer portions, in particular the last eluting buffer portions, contain interferon, as the yielding of interferon in the elution is an indication of a positive clone.The two above mentioned advantageous methods for detecting positive hybridoma clones may be applied not only to anti interferon producing hybridoma clones, but with evident modifications, also to the detection of positive hybridoma clones producing antibody directed against other proteins. Interestingly, it has been found that antibodies raised against one of the purified interferon proteins of the invention are capable of neutralizing the other purified proteins of the invention. Thus, as will become apparent, the monospecific antibodies of the invention, whether raised against a single purified interferon protein of the invention or raised against a combination of purified interferon proteins of the invention, are equally effective for purification of human Le form interferon containing solutions.In accordance with wellknown principles, the monospecific anti interferon of the invention can be used for determination of the corresponding interferon or interferon component in biological fluids such as by radioimmunoassay or related techniques. However, as alluded to above, an interesting and important utility of the n ono specific antibodies is for antibody affinity chromatography purification of interferon containing solutions. For this purpose, the antibodies are immobilized on a matrix in a manner known per se, suitably covalently bound to a suitable antibody affinity chromatography matrix such as a cross linked agarose such as Sepharose 4B fromPharmacia.The antibody affinity chromatography purification of interferon containing solutions may be performed according to any of the wellknown methods, either batchwise or, preferably, using the matrix immobilized antibody arranged in a column.The preparation of antibody affinity columns using the monospecific anti interferon, and the operation of such columns are performed in a manner known per se. The interferon containing solution applied on such columns may be a crude, unconcentrated interferon preparation, or it may be a concentrated or partially purified interferon preparation. The interferon preparation applied on the column may be arv interferon preparation containing human Le form interferon, that is, human leukocyte interferons, human lymphoblastoid interferons Namalva interferons , or interferon or important parts thereof produced by cultivation of a microorganism containing DNA coding for interferon, such as described above.The use of antibodies against partially purified human leukocyte interferon in antibody affinity chromatography for purifying Namalva interferon and leukocyte interferon has already been described vide, e.g. Scand. J. Immunol., 8, 429 436 1978 .However, the important improvement is that monospecific antiinterferon will retain substantially only human Le form interferon protein, the remaining proteins of the preparation passing through the column. Very small amounts of impurities due to spontaneous cross reactivity cannot be ruled out, not even when the antibodies used are antibodies produced by hybridoma technique which must, apart from this, be expected to produce react with only pure interferon proteins.At suitable dimensions of such antibody columns which can be designed in accordance with wellknown principles for antibody affinity chromatography columns , the columns may be used for large scale industrial purification of interferon from a crude interferon preparation to result in pure or highly purified interferon proteins in the column eluate. The pure or highly purified interferon proteins prepared in this way are stabilized with suitable stabilizers according to the intended use thereof, such as described above.As the interferon of the interferon preparations applied on the monospecific anti interferon columns is present in usually very low concentrations, on a weight basis, and as as great amounts as possible of the valuable interferon are to be isolated, it is of importance to minimize any deterioration of the interferon proteins which might be caused due to the presence of proteolytic activity in any biological substance with which the interferon is contacted, and one aspect of the present invention comprises removing any proteolytic activity from any biological material with which the interferon to be purified is in contact.One important utility of this aspect is the removal of proteolytic activity from the anti interferon antibodies immunoglobulins of the invention. According to the invention, this removal is suitably performed by treating the antibodies, prior to their binding to the matrix, with matrix immobilized enzyme inhibitor or enzyme destructor which is not harmful to immunoglobulins or the important fragments thereof . Thus, the antibodies may be passed through a column of matrix immobilized poly L lysin and or matrix immobilizedSoyabean Trypsin inhibitor, and or matrix immobilized kallikrein inactivator. An example of a suitable treatment of the antibodies is passage through a column of poly L lysin covalently bound to cross linked agarose such as Sepharose 4B, followed by passages through a column of Soyabean Trypsin inhibitor covalently bound to the same matrix.It has been found that this removal of proteolytic activity increases the recovery of interferon activity in antibody affinity chromatography purification of interferon containing solutions.The monospecific anti interferon, when covalently bound to a matrix such as cross linked agarose, is preferably bound to such an extent that the total amount of antibody covalently bound to the matrix corresponds to at the most 85 of the immunoglobulins used at the covalent binding stage, such as described by the present inventor in Scand. J. Immunolog., 6, 77 86 1977 . This results in the highest recovery of interferon from the column.When the eluate from the monospecific anti interferon affinity chromatography column is to be used for administration in human beings, it is important that it does not contain any component which might be immunogenic in man. One risk which might be associated with antibody affinity chromatography is that immunoglobulins or immunoglobulin fragments liberate from the column and become eluted together with the desired protein or proteins.According to the invention, such immunoglobulins or fragments thereof which are immunogenic in man are removed by passage of the eluate through an antibody affinity column in which the antibodies are directed against the anti interferon immunoglobulins and are of a kind which is non immunogenic on parenteral administration to human beings. Prior to the passage of the eluate through the said column, it should be adjusted to a neutral pH, e.g. by dialysis against PBS, pH 7.2 . Immunoglobulins which are non immunogenic on parenteral administration to human beings are primate immunoglobulins, but the access to primate immunoglobulins directed against the immunoglobulins of the animal used for the preparation of the monospecific anti interferon may be limited or completely precluded, for legal or ethical reasons. Therefore, it is important to note that pig IgG immunoglobulins have been found to be non immunogenic in man, such as is described in U.S. Patent No. 4,132,769. Antibodies produced in a human hybridoma system, when available, would constitute an interesting alternative.Hence, according to the invention, the removal of any anti interferon immunpglobulin or immunoglobulin fraction from the eluate of the anti interferon affinity chromatography is preferably performed by passing the eluate after adjustment of pH to neutrality .through a column of matrix immobilized pig IgG directed against the anti interferon immunoglobulins.Pig IgG immunoglobulins directed against the anti interferon immunoglobulins may be prepared in a manner known per se by immunizing a pig with immunoglobulins from the anti interferon immunoglobulinproducing animal species, and isolating the IgG immunoglobulin fraction from the antiserum harvested from the pig, in accordance with the methods disclosed in the above mentioned U.S. Patent No. 4,132,769.In a more generalized manner, this contribution according to the present invention can be expressed as a method of removing proteins which are immunogenic in man from a protein solution which is to be administered to human beings, comprising subjecting the protein solution to an antibody affinity chromatography treatment where the antibodies are immunoglobulins directed against the immunogenic proteins, the said immunoglobulins being of a kind which is nonimmunogenic on parenteral administration to human beings. As will be evident from the above explanation, the non immunogenic immunoglobulins preferred are primate immunoglobulins or pig IgG immunoglobulins.Other general aspects of the present invention related to this contribution are the use of pig IgG immunoglobulins as the immunoglobulins in antibody affinity chromatography using matrix immobilized antibodies, matrix immobilized pig IgG immunoglobulins for antibody affinity chromatography, and a process of purifying protein containing solutions for human parenteral administration by antibody affinity chromatography, using, for the antibody affinity chromatography, matrix immobilized pigIgG immunoglobulins. These general aspects, their utility, and their practical embodiments are evident from the above explanation. The purification stages performed according to the present invention to prepare the pure human leukocyte interferon proteins humanLe form interferon proteins from crude human leukocyte interferon comprise concentration by precipitation of proteins with KSCN, gel filtration, ligand affinity chromatography, and antibody affinity chromatography. Although such stages are known per se in the interferon art, the particular combination thereof and the particular conditions applied in certain of the operations constitute novel features, some of which are in themselves aspects of the present invention. The particular way in which the stages are performed, and the particular combination of operations have resulted in optimal purification and concentration of the interferon, with minimum loss of interferon proteins during the sequence.The KSCN precipitation is preferably performed by lowering the pH of the crude interferon containing a KSCN concentration of 0.5 M to pH 4.5 instead of the conventional lowering to pH 3.5.This results in a considerably lower amount of protein in the precipitate, thus faci 4tating the later purification steps.The gel filtration is performed with a buffer solution containing 25 by volume of ethylene glycol and being 1 molar with respect to NaCl, incl. PBS pH 7. 2 . This results in a much better resolution than when using PBS or low pH 2,4 alone, or when using urea,PBS at pH 7.2. The eluate fractions containing essentially only proteins in the 10,000 20,000 Daltons range are collected.The ligand affinity chromatography is performed in a novel and extremely advantageous way and constitutes one important aspect of the present invention The said ligand affinity chromatography is performed under specified conditions on an interferon having a specific activity of at least 50,000 100.000 IFU per mg protein, using immobilized CibacronBlue F3GA as the ligand.The use of Cibacron Blue F3GA as the ligand for affinity chromatography of interferon was known in the art, but according to the invention, it has been found that the selectivity of this ligand increases drastically when particular com binations of conditions are used the interferon applied should have a much higher specific activity i. e. a specific activity of at least 50,000 100,000 IFU per mg protein, than in the conventional uses of this ligand type where crude human leukocyte interferon of a specific activity of about 3 5 x 103 IFU per mg of protein is applied , and the solution in which the interferon is applied on the column should be in the pH range of 6.5 8 and should have an ionic strength which does not essentially exceed the ionic strength of a 10 100, in particular 20, mM phosphate buffer, pH 7.2.When such a relatively high specific activity of the interferon is applied, the specificity of the ligand changes, and a higher degree of selective binding of the interferon proteins to the ligand occurs. Cibacron F3GA is believed to interact with interferon proteins in a way which indicates the existence of a dinucleotide fold and in this interaction, it seems to have the same binding site as polyribonucleotides. It is believed that the particular advantageous properties shown by Cibacron F3GA under particular critical conditions as discussed above will also be exhibited by the other members of the class to which this ligand pertains, and the present aspect of the invention, therefore, is constituted by a method of purifying human interferon, comprising applying an aqueous solution containing human Le form interferon protein in a form having a specific activity of at least 50,000 100,000 IFU per mg of protein, the said solution being buffered to a pH of 6.5 BR and having an ionic strength substantially not exceeding the ionic strength of a 10 100, in particular 20, mM phosphate buffer, pH 7.2 solution, optionally together with a water miscible organic solvent such as ethanol in amounts of 5 80 , on a matrix immobilized ligand capable of binding the interferon according to the mechanism exerted by Cibacron F3GA, and thereafter eluting the interferon thus bound. Examples of materials which are matrix immobilized Cibacron F3GA are Blue Dextran 2000 matrix dextran with molecular weight 2 millions , and Blue Sepharose CL 6B. Further details concerning these and other materials and their use in the conventional interferon purification appear from Bollin et al., Preparative Biochemistry, 8 4 , 259 274 1978 . According to the invention, it is preferred to use, as the immobilized Cibacron F3GA composition, Blue Dextran 2000 coupled toSepharose 4B by means of CNBr activated Sepharose 4B .The elution of the interferon from this type of immobilized ligand has been found, according to the invention, to be extremely selective when using 0.6 M NaCl buffered to pH 7.2, and pH 7.2 is also the preferred pH of the interferon containing solution applied.Reference is made to Fig. 4 which shows the elution pattern of aBlue Dextran Sepharose 4B column loaded with partially purified human leukocyte interferon, 1 ml, specific activity 500,000 IFU per mg protein, subsequent to throughout dialysis versus 20 mM phosphate buffer PB , pH 7.4. The size of the fractions was 5 ml, and the flow rate was 35 40 ml h. The column was washed with 20 mM PB for 2 hours, before it was eluted stepwise with 0.2, 0.4, 0.6, 0.8, and 1.0 M NaCl in PB 7.4, respectively. The total eluate I II III contained 754,000 IFU in 30 ml , the originally applied amount being determined to 750,000 IFU. Hence, the recovery was 100 . The specific activity of the eluate was 2.1 x 107 IFU per mg of protein. The purification factor was 42.When checking the eluates in an SDS PAGE, most of the eluted proteins 98 appeared above 50,000 Daltons impurities , vide Fig. 4a which shows an SDS PAGE of the input, wash, and eluate of Fig. 4.Although, as will appear from the above, 0.6 M NaCl buffered to pH 7.2 is a most preferred eluant for the affinity column, it will also be noted that a broader concentration range is quite selective, and the invention comprises the elution with aqueous NaCl solution of a concentration of 0.5 0.7, in particular 0.5 0.65 molar and buffered to a pH of 6.5 8, or other aquous solution buffered to a pK of 6.5 8 and having an ionic strength corresponding to such NaCl solution. The use of other eluants is also within the scope of the present invention. As examples may be mentioned salts and or ethylene glycol in stepwise and or gradient wise increasing concentration up to 50 , aminoacids, artificial aminoacids, ampholines, and proteins and protein mixtures.As mentioned above, the interferon solution may be applied together with a water miscible organic solvent, such as alcohol, in particular ethanol. The interferon which is purified by the affinity chromatography according to this aspect of the invention is typically an interferon containing human Le form interferon proteins, such as human interferons apart from human fibroblast interferons , that is, e.g., human leukocyte interferons, human lymphoblastoid interferons and human Le form interferon proteins or important parts thereof when produced by cultivation of a microorganism clone containing DNA coding for the production of such interferon protein. The fact that human lymphoblastoid interferon Namalva contains a minor proportion of interferon of fibroblast character F form corresponding to 15 of the biological activity does not detract from the fact that human lymphoblastoid interferon is, with respect to its major interferon activity, a human Le form interferon in that it contains human Le. form interferon proteins corresponding to 85 of the biological activitiy having determinants identical with determinants of human leukocyte interferon proteins, such as has been shown according to the present invention. It is preferred that the specific activity of the interferon preparation applied on the affinity column is 100,000 1,000,000, such as 200,000 1,000,000, e.g. about 500,000, e.g. 500,000 1,000,000IFU per mg protein.The eluate from the affinity chromatography column operated in accordance with this aspect of the invention may be an interesting product also for therapeutic use. It will often have a specific activity of at least 30 x 106 IFU per mg protein, based on the Lowry procedure using pure human albumin serum as standard, such as 30 x 106 108, e.g., 30 x 106 70 x 106 IFU per mg protein.For administration to human beings, this preparation is subject to normal pharmaceutical precautions, such as precautions to ensure sterility and freedom from pyrogenicity. The dosage of this preparation will correspond to the dosage stated above for the pure interferon, on a total activity basis.As explained in the Experimental section , the eluate from the affinity chromatography column was, in the original experiments leading to the pure interferon, subjected to final purification by passage through an absorbed antibody affinity column in which the antibodies are immunoglobulins raised against partially purified human leukocyte interferon and then subjected to removal of antibodies against contaminating proteins by several passages through columns of matriximmobilized crude human leukocyte interferon. As appears from the more detailed explanation below, the covalent binding of crude interferon to a matrix as e.g.Sepharose 4B destroys the immunological determinants of the interferon itself, 98 , but apparently not the determinants of the major part of the impurities, and this means that when immunoglobulins raised against partially purified leukocyte interferon are passed normally several times through the column, the anti impurities thereof will be retained on the column, while the anti interferon will pass the column. Such absorbed anti interferon absorbed several times was used in the antibody affinity chromatography stage following the affinity chro matography. As appears from the Experimental section , a preferred way of operating the affinity columns, that is, the Blue Dextran Sepharose column and the antibody affinity column, is to connect the two columns so that the eluate from the Blue Dextran column at the same time loads the antibody affinity column. This prevents any loss which might otherwise occur if the eluate fractions from the Blue Dextran column were handled separately. In the final concentration of the human Le interferon proteins, a unique method of concentrating proteins by precipitation with SDS was used. This method constitutes a further aspect of the present invention and comprises precipitating SDS or a salt thereof from a solution of the protein which contains SDS, preferably in a concentration of 0.1 4 per cent by weight, in particular about 0.1 per cent by weight, to obtain a precipitate comprising a complex or complexes of SDS or a salt thereof with the protein, separating the precipitate from the solution, preferably by centrifugation at 0 40C, and redissolving the precipitate in a smaller liquid volume.The precipitation of the SDS may suitably be obtained by either a lowering the temperature to OOC for about 15 minutes or b adding a salt, e.g., a K salt, which forms a precipitate with SDS or EMI23.1 tb en SEP of SEP 0.1 SEP r SEP tb cent SEP b SEP ight, SEP to SEP obtain SEP a SEP precipitate SEP comprising SEP a SEP complex SEP or tb complexes SEP of SEP S SEP r SEP a SEP salt SEP thereof SEP with SEP the SEP protein, SEP separating tb the SEP precipitate SEP from SEP the SEP tion, SEP preferably SEP by SEP centrifugation SEP at tb O SEP SEP 40C, SEP and SEP redissolving SEP the SEP p SEP te SEP in SEP a SEP smaller SEP liquid SEP volume. tb The SEP precipitation SEP of SEP the SEP SDS SEP may SEP suitably SEP obtained SEP by SEP either SEP a tb lowering SEP the SEP temperature SEP to SEP OOC SEP for SEP about SEP 15 mi ìtes SEP r SEP b SEP adding tb SEP ,le SEP , SEP n SEP tb with SDS protein complexes. This method is a valuable method for concentrating aqueous solutions of pure or purified interferons, and, as indicated above, has been found to be an excellent way of concentrating human Le form interferon proteins.The total purification sequence performed in accordance with the present invention was found to be extremely activity preserving From a starting amount of proteins of 7 x 105 gamma, the pure interferon isolated was less than or equal to 1 gamma, as determined by comparison of protein bands on SDS PAGE . Yet, the overall decrease in total interferon activity from the starting batch of 6 crude interferon to the pure interferon was only from 4 x 106 IFU to 1.85 x 106 IFU about 50 . This emphasizes the unique character of the purification sequence and the above mentioned critical stages thereof.MATERIALS AND METHODS.Interferon assays were performed according to the well known standard method Berg K., Sequential Antibody Affinity Chromatography of Human Leukocyte Interferon, Scand. J. Immunol. 6, 77 86 1977 using VERO cells monkey kidney cells and Vesicular Stomatitis Virus VSV as a challenge virus. All interferon units IFU are expressed in international reference units 69 19 B units 69 19 B reference was obtained from MRC, Mill Hill, U.K. Interferon. Crude human leukocyte interferon was produced according to the method as described by Cantell Cantell, K., Hirvonen, S., Mogensen, K. E. and Pyhala, L., Human leukocyte inter feron production, purification, stability and animal experiments.In The Production and use of Interferon for the Treatment andPrevention of Human Virus Infections pp. 35 38, Waymouth, C. ed. . Proceedings of a Tissue Culture Association Workshop held at Lake Placid, 1973 In Vitro Monograph, volume 3 , Tissue Culture Association, Rockville, Md. using Sendai virus as interferon inducer. Partially purified interferon PIF with a specific activity of 5 x 105 IFU mg protein was obtained from crude concentrated human leukocyte interferon CIF by ethanolic precipitation as described by Cantell, K., Hirvonen, S., Mogensen, K. E. and Pyhälä, L., loc. cit.Crude Namalva interferon was produced substantially as described by Strander et al., Production of human lymphoblastoid interferon,J. Clin. Microbiol. 1, 116 124 1975 , using Sendai virus as interferon inducer.Interferon neutralization for determining anti interferon was performed in a micro assay system in the following manner 20,000 VERO cells per well were seeded in 100 pl medium and kept at 5 C02 in a humidified cabinet. On day 2 the medium was removed from the cells, and each well received 100 p1 of a dilution in medium of the antiserum, containing an interferon concentration of 6 8 IFU ml the serum and interferon had been preincubated at 370C for 1 h .On day 3 the medium was removed, and all the wells received 100 ,ul VSV diluted to 10 3 5 in medium . On day 4 the CPE cyto pathogenic effect was determined, and 50 destruction was taken as the end point for the determination of the anti interferon titer.The titers are expressed as interferon neutralization units IFU NU per ml.Non monospecific anti interferon against PIF was produced, according to Mogensen, K. E., Pyhala, Liisa and Cantell, K., Acta path. microbiol. scand. Sect. B, 83, 443 450, 1975 , partly in sheep, partly in rabbits. The titer of the sheep anti interferon was 100 250,000IFU NU ml. For the preparation of the rabbit anti interferon, a 5 rabbit was injected weekly, s.c. with PIF 2 x 105 IFU for more than two years. The titer of the rabbit anti interferon was 15,000 30,000 IFU NU ml. All immunoglobulins were isolated by 5p ammonium sulphate precipitation, followed by a dialysis versus phosphate buffer saline PBS , pH 7.2.Chemicals. CNBr was from Fluka stored at 20 C . Sodium dodecylsulphate SDS , specially pure for electrophorese, was purchased through British Drug House BDH . Soyabean Trypsin Inhibitor STI and L Lysine were obtained from Sigma. Sepharose 4B,CNBr activated Sepharose 4B, CH activated Sepharose 4B, andEpoxy activated Sepharose 6B were all purchased from Pharmacia Denmark .Binding Procedures. The covalent binding of the immunoglobulins to Sepharose 4B was done as previously described by K. Berg inScand. J. Immunolog., 6, 77 86, 1977 . Only 80 85 of the immunoglobulins were deliberately bound.Protein determinations were made by a modification of the Lowry procedure Berg K., Sequential Antibody Affinity Chromatography of Human Leukocyte Interferon, Scand. J. Immunol., 6, 77 86 1977 which permitted detection of 1 2 ,ug ml as the lowest level of proteins detectable using an LKB Calculation AbsorptionerUltralab System . Crystalline bovine serum albumin was used as a standard protein. To determine the protein concentration of the purified interferon 1 5 pg in total the following procedure was adopted SDS was added to a final concentration of 0.1 . The lyophilized protein sample was further examined on an SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophorese SDS PAGE, see later , subsequent to a dialysis versus distilled water. The intensity of the stained protein bands was compared with known standards in different amounts see later, under SDS PAGE , and the total amounts of proteins were estimated The deviations were 5 10 , with the lowest detectable level of proteins being 0.1 pg in total . The results from this method will serve as a rough estimate, rather than as an actual measurement.Affinity chromatographies were performed at 40C. The gel suspensions were degassed before packed into the columns. Packing was performed by washing with 3 5 bed volumes of loading buffer, using a peristaltic pump. Samples 100 pl for interferon titrations were taken from either pools or individual fractions and titrated on the same day or frozen in plastic tubes 200C and titrated later.The dilutions were made in medium incl. 10 calf serum .Antibody affinity chromatography was essentially done as described by Berg Sequential Antibody Affinity Chromatography of HumanLeukocyte Interferon, Scand. J. Immunol., 6, 77 86 1977 . As loading buffer was used 0.1 M NaOA 0.3 M NaCl at pH 7.2 flow rate 40 ml h . Stepwise elution was performed with 0.1 M Hoax 0.3 M NaCl including a minute amount of citric acid enough to keep the pH firmly at 2.4 . When not operated, the column was stored at 40C in PBS l M NaCl including Penicillin, Streptomycin, Gentamycin and Chloramphenicol 1 of each . Before using the column for purification purposes, it was first washed with 100 ml of loading buffer followed by 10 ml of eluting buffer and finally equilibrated with 20 30 ml of loading buffer.This washing cycle was necessary to avoid spontaneous proteins, especially when working with interferon of specific activities above 10 IFU mg proteins. The plastic tubes used for collecting the interferon eluate were pre wetted with 100 pl of 1 SDS.SDS PAGE. The purified, concentrated interferon preparations were analyzed for polyp ep tides components on SDS PAGE slab gels using 20 cm long separating gels, 0.75 mm thick Bio Rad model 221 Dual vertical slab gel electrophoresis cell and 7 10 cm long stacking gel. Exponential gradient gels of about 9 22 polyacrylamide were prepared by mixing 11 ml 22 acrylamide solution with about 32 ml 9 solution in a simple, ice cooled gradient device, as described in Knight, E., Interferon Purification and initial characterization from human diploid cells. Proc. natn. Acad. Sci. USA 73, 520 523 1976 .The discontinuous buffer system, as described by Laenomli Laenomli,U. K., Cleavage of Structural Proteins During Assembly of the Head of Bacteriophage T4, Nature 227, 680 685 1970 was used. The gel was pre cooled for 2 h 100C before starting the actual electrophorese which was performed overnight 100C at constant effect LKB power supply , starting out with 10 mA and about 20 V . Samples to be analyzed were dissolved or diluted in 0.1 M Tris,HCl pH 6.8 2.5 SDS and 5 glucose including a tracking dye sample buffer The gel was stained in Comassie Blue 1.25 mg ml in 50 methanol, 40 H2O and 10 acetic acid , without prior fixation, for 15 minutes at room temperature under constant rocking, and destained in 7 acetic acid 5 methanol . The gels were dried on paper of a good quality for example, Whatman Chromatographic paper 17 mm under heat and vacuum using a gel dryer BioRad, gel slab dryer, model 224 .Solutions of five different molecular markers, from 0.1 pg to 10 pg of each marker per 20 pl, Lactalbumin 14,400 Daltons Soyabean Trypsin Inhibitor 20,100Daltons Carbonic Anhydrase 30,000 Daltons Ovalbumin 43,000Daltons Bovine Serum Albumin 67,000 Daltons Phosphorylase 94,000 Daltons obtained as an electrophoresis calibration kit Pharmacia, Denmark were subjected to SDS PAGE and stained.It should be noted that molecular weights assessed in this manner are subject to experimental accuracy of about 1200 Daltons. The stained protein bands were compared with the corresponding bands obtained from a parallel SDS PAGE of a purified interferon preparation and the total concentration of interferon proteins was estimated. For obtaining a biological profile from an SDS PAGE, the part of the gel intended for interferon determination, was cut from the remainder gel and kept at 40C in a humidified box on a glass plate. The main part of the gel was stained for 15 minutes after destaining for additionally 3 5 minutes, weak bands were clearly seen on a blue background, whereby the precise location of the protein bands corresponding to 14,000 and 30,000 Daltons could be established.The unstained part of the gel was cut, so it only contained proteins between 14,000 and 30,000 Daltons and was further subdivided in 1 mm pieces by sharp knives. The interferon from these slices was eluted with 0.5 ml 0.1 M SDS subsequent to a complete mincing by means of a teflon rod. After 5 h at room temperature rocking the interferon activity of the supernatant was determined. The individual fractions were frozen at 200C without any additives. EXPERIMENTAL SECTION.Preparation of Pure Human Leukocyte and LymphoblastoidInterferon Proteins.Concentration of crude human leukocyte interferon. To 3 liters of crude human leucocyt interferon was added KSCN up to a concentration of 0.5 M at pH 7.2. The pH was lowered by addition of 1NHCl to 4.5 magnetic stirring whereby a protein precipitate containing the interferon and part of the impurities was obtained.The precipitate was dissolved in 150 ml of PBS phosphate buffered saline, pH 7.2 including 1 M NaCl and 25 by volume of ethylene glycol and dialyzed thoroughly versus 3 times 2 liters of the same buffer at 40C. The specific activity of the crude concentrated human leukocyte interferon HuLeCIF was 5 10 x 103 IFU mg protein. The recovery was about 98 .Concentration of crude Namalva interferon. To 1 liter of crudeNamalva interferon, with a titer of about 8000 IFU ml, was addedKSCN up to a concentration of 0.5 M at pH 7.2. The pH was lowered by addition of 1N HCl to 4.5 magnetic stirring whereby a protein precipitate containing the interferon and part of the impurities was obtained. The precipitate was dissolved in 50 ml of PBS, pH 7.2, including 1 M NaCl and 25 by volume of ethylene glycol and dialyzed thoroughly versus 3 times 2 liters of the same buffer at 40C. The specific activity of the crude concentrated Namalva inter 3 feron NaCIF was 10 12 x 103 IFU mg protein. The recovery was about 98 . Gel filtration. A 100 cm long column 2.6 cm in diameter, PharmaciaK 2.6 100 was packed with Ultrogel AcA 5 4 LKB Denmark inPBS containing 1 M NaCl and 25 by volume of ethylene glycol at 40C pH 7.2 . After washing the column with 3 bed volumes of buffer, the column was stabilized. 10 15 ml of HuLeCIF prepared as described above in 25 by volume of ethylene glycol, 1 MNaCl in PBS, pH 7.4 were loaded to the column, and the column was eluted with the loading buffer, the fractions being assayed for interferon activity. The interferon containing fractions were pooled, and about 95 of the original interferon activity was recovered. The specific activity of the gelfiltered human leukocyte interferon containing eluates was close to 1,000,000 IFU mg protein, corresponding to a purification factor of 200.As determined by means of molecular markers, the molecular weight of the interferon corresponds to a range of 10,000 20,000 Daltons. Titrations of individual fraction revealed only one broad peak, with a maximum at 18,000 Daltons.In the same manner as described above, 10 ml of NaCIF prepared as described above in 25 by volume of ethylene glycol, 1M NaCl in PBS, pH 7.4 were loaded to the column, and the elution was performed in the same manner as described above. The recovery was about 90 . The specific activity of the gelfiltered Namalva interferon containing eluate was close to 1,000,000 IFU mg protein, corresponding to a purification factor of 100. As determined by means of molecular markers, the molucular weight of the interferon corre sponds to a range of 10,000 20,000 Daltons. Titrations of the individual fractions revealed a broad peak, with a maximum at 18,000Daltons.The gel filtration curves for the above described gel filtration ofHuLeCIF and NaCIF are shown in Figs. 5 and 6, respectively, and HULEIF indicates the human leukocyte interferon, whereas NALYIF indicates the Namalva lymphoblastoid interferon. It is clearly seen that the interferon activity is effectively separated from the major part of the proteins.Blue Dextran chromatography. The gel filtered human leukocyte interferon solution, obtained as described above, was exhaustively dialyzed against 200 volumes of 20 mM PB, pH 7. 2 at 40C. The dialysis was performed twice, the total dialysis time being about 24 hours. The dialyzed solution 25 ml, containing 1.8 x 106 IFU was loaded on a column of Blue Dextran Sepharose 4B. The diameter of the column was 1 cm, and the length of the column was 10 cm. The column was pre washed with 200 300 ml of 20 mM PB phosphate buffer at pH 7.4. The dialyzed interferon preparation was loaded to the equilibrated column, and the column was washed with 75 ml of PB. 4500 IFU was found in the wash.The column was eluted with 0.6 M NaCl, 20 mM PB, pH 7.2 whereby more than 95 of the interferon activity was recovered in 6 ml of eluate, as determined by interferon titration.In exactly the same manner, the above mentioned gel filtered Namalva interferon solution was exhaustively dialyzed and thereafter subjected to Blue Dextran chromatography. The input in the Blue Dextran chromatography was 1,600,000 IFU. The wash consisted of 70,000IFU in 50 ml. The eluate was obtained by means of 0.6 M NaCl inPB pH 7.2 . The Blue Dextran chromatography of Namalva interferon is illustrated in Fig. 7. The fibroblast part of the Namalva interferon was not eluted from the column under the above conditions, but is expected to be eluted using, e.g., 25 ethylene glycol in 1 M NaCl, pH 7.2.The above mentioned Blue Dextran column was a column of BlueDextran Cibacron Blue F3GA immobilized on Dextran 2000 molecular weight 2 millions coupled to cyanogen bromide activated agarose Sepharose 4B . Thus, the more complete designation of the column is Blue Dextran Sepharose 4B. This type of column is described by Bollin et al., loc. cit. After elution, the column was cleaned by elution with 25 30 ml 25 ethylene glycol, 1.5 M NaCl in 20 mMPB. The column was stored in this buffer at 40C when not in use.As mentioned above, the loading conditions could also involve the use of hydrophobic reagents, such as alcohols in various amounts 0 50 The 0.6 M NaCl eluates from the Blue Dextran chromatography show 6 a specific activity of 70 x 106 IFU mg of protein, both for the human leukocyte interferon and for the Namalva interferon. Thus, these are candidates for parenteral administration in human beings for therapeutic purposes and, in this regard, are much more pure preparations than the commonly used PIF preparations. For this use, the eluates are stabilized with physiologically acceptable stabilizers such as described further above, for example 1 of human albumin. For further purification and for preparation of pure interferon, the eluates from the Blue Dextran column are directly transferred to an antibody affinity chromatography column. In the most advantageous embodiment, the antibody affinity chromatography column is combined with the Blue Dextran column in a tandem system as described below Tandem Affinity Chromatography. Instead of eluting the Blue Dextran column as described above, the Blue. Dextran column is combined with the equilibrated antibody column prior to the elution, by connecting the outlet of the Blue Dextran column with the inlet of the antibody column. In this manner, the eluate from the Blue Dextran column is immediately caught by the antibody column. This combination makes use of the fact that the elution conditions 0.6 MNaCl, 20 mM PB, pH 7.2 can be used as loading conditions of the antibody column.After the elution loading using 20 ml of the eluate loading buffer this loading buffer , of course, at the same time contains the interferon eluted from the Blue Dextran column , the two columns are disconnected, and the antibody column is washed further before eluted as described above. The human leukocyte interferon eluate from the antibody column contains pure interferon proteins showing a specific activity of more than 109 IFU mg of protein as assessed by the determination method discussed above . For stab.lization of the pure interferon proteins, the tubes in which the eluate from the antibody column is collected fraction size 2 ml have been pre wetted with 100 pl of 1 SDS each. After pooling of the interferon containing eluate, additional SDS is added up to a total concentration of 0.1 by weights. The pooled interferon containing eluates stabilized with 0.1 SDS are transferred to a 20 ml stainless steel tube pre cooled to OOC in an ice bath. After 15 minutes, a precipitate is formed. The precipitate is isolated by centrifugation at 20,000 rpm at 40C for 20 minutes. The supernatant is discarded no interferon activity , and the precipitate is redissolved in 4 ml of 8 M urea and transferred to a Millipore concentration cell, size 8 ml, filter 10,000 molecular weight cut, and concentrated to about 100 pl at room temperature.Thereafter, additional 4 ml 4 M urea p.a. was added to the concentrate, and the solution was concentrated to about 100 pl at room temperature. 1 3 ml of distilled water was added, and the solution was concentrated again to a volume of 20 pl and mixed with 20 pl SDS sample electrophoresis buffer. 20 pl of the resulting solution was used for characterization as described in the section SDS PAGE below.The above mentioned antibody affinity chromatography column had been prepared in accordance with Binding Procedures using nonmonospecific anti PIF which had been absorbed as follows a total amount of 106 IFU NU of anti interferon immunoglobulins corresponding to 4 ml sheep anti interferon serum was absorbed three times on a 150 ml column of human serum bound to Sepharose 4B followed by 4 absorptions on a CIF epoxy Sepharose column and 2 absorptions on a CIF CH activated Sepharose 4B as described in the below section Absorption of Anti interferon and in Scand. J.Immunol. 8, 429 436 1978 . Finally, the immunoglobulins had been absorbed on a poly L lysine Sepharose column once and on a Soyabean Trypsin Inhibitor Sepharose column twice .The eluate from the Blue Dextran chromatography of Namalva interferon was divided in two portions. One portion was used for SDSPAGE electrophoresis as described below. 250,000 IFU were loaded to the absorbed antibody column as shown in Fig. 8. No interferon was found in the wash. The interferon was eluted as usual by lowering pH to 2.4, and 235,000 IFU collected in the presence of 0.1 SDS were recovered. This eluate was concentrated as described above and further examined in SDS PAGE.SDS PAGE. The SDS PAGE electrophoresis was performed as described under MATERIALS AND METHODS above. The stained slab of the electrophoresis of the pure human leukocyte interferon proteins is shown in Fig. 1. Fig. 2 shows, schematically, the stained slab from another experiment, together with the corresponding interferon activity eluted from an unstained parallel gel strip. The striking reproducibility between the two experiments appears from the two Figures, the difference between 20,100 and 20,180 being within the experimental accuracy. As mentioned previously, the biological peaks coincide exactly with the proteins.From Fig. 1, it appears that the interferon preparation is completely pure by SDS PAGE. There is no other protein band whatsoever visible.Fig. 9 shows the stained slab from the SDS PAGE load 0.9x106IFU , of the pure Namalva interferon proteins A , and of the eluate from the Blue Dextran column B . By comparison with Fig.1, it will be noted that the bands of the pure Namalva interferon are essentially identical with the bands of pure human leukocyte interferon applied in the same amount.Establishment of Hybridoma Cells with Activity Directed AgainstInterferon.3 female Balb c mice, age two months, were immunized with human leukocyte interferon in the following way The first injection 40,000 IFU was performed subcutaneously in the back of each mouse. The immunization was continued every week with subcutaneous injection of 70,000 IFU. The last injection was given intravenously the 9th week mouse 1 and 10th week mouses 2 and 3 , respectively.The development of anti interferon was determined on serum samples from the mice, using the interferon neutralization test. As a laboratory check of the interferon neutralization test system, an internal anti interferon IgG preparation raised by injecting rabbits with partially purified human leukocyte interferon preparations was, as usually, included. The serum samples from the mice showed no anti interferon activity the first six weeks. Thereafter, distinct anti interferon activity was found Table I. IFU NU per ml 7th week 8th week 9th week 10th week mouse 1 160 160 120 mouse 2 200 1280 2500 1200 2500 mouse 3 80 40 40 5 10The mice were killed by breaking their necks two to four days after the last injection, and their spleens were removed under sterile conditions.After homogenization of each spleen in PBS the homogenized cell suspension was transferred to centrifuge tubes and centrifugated for 5 minutes at 170 g at 40C. The cells were resuspended in PBS, and after a second centrifugation, they were resuspended in serum 4ree DMEM about 0.5 ml per spleen . The total amount of cells was 108 mouse 1 , 0.8 x 108 mouse 2 , and 0.8 x 108 mouse 3 . The viability was around 85 90 .By treatment with polyethylene glycol in the manner described below, the spleen cell suspension from each mouse was fused with 101 X63Ag8 HPRT myeloma cells in the following manner 108 mouse spleen cells and 107 8 azaguanin resistent myeloma cells X63Ag8 NSI 1Ag 4 1 SP 2 0 Ag 14 were mixed in a 50 ml conical plastic centrifuge tube Falcon 2070 . The tube was filled up with serum free DMEM and centrifugated for 10 minutes at 170 200 g and 40C. The supernatant was carefully removed, and at 370 C, a total of 0.7 ml of 50 polyethylene glycol solution having a temperature of 370C was added dropwise over a period of 1 minute with gentle rotation.After incubation for 90 seconds at 370 C, 15 ml of warm serum free DMEM were added very slowly in the course of 1 2 minutes . Thereafter, the mixture was centrifugated for 10 minutes at 200 g, and the cell pellet was resuspended in 50 ml complete DMEM FCS for seeding in Costar trays. From each of the fusions, 48 cultures, each of 1 ml, were seeded in Costar trays 2 trays, each with 24 holes per spleen 48 cultures per mouse . After 10 15 days, growth was noted in 21 cultures mouse 1 , 0 cultures mouse 2 and after further seeding out 150 cultures mouse 3 .The cells were transferred to 5 ml cultures in 25 ml NUNC bottles which, like the Costar trays, contained a feeder layer of macrophages. On shift of medium, the supernatants were obtained, and from these dense cultures, cells were frozen in liquid nitrogen. The supernatants of the individual cultures from mouse 1 were subjected to detection of positive clones using the interferon neutralization test. In this manner, one positive clone was found, although with a very low titer about 2 3 IFU NU per ml .Production of Anti Interferon by Means of Pure Interferon Proteins Pure by SDS PAGE .The eluate from the above described tandem affinity chromatography, as characterized by SDS PAGE, was used for immunization of rabbits as follows About 1,000,000 IFU units were concentrated to about 1 ml and dialyzed against PBS at 100C overnight. Two rabbits were injected subcutaneously with each 1,000,000 IFU prepared in this manner.The injection was repeated each second week. The development of antibodies appears from Table II TABLE II NEUTRALIZATION UNITS IFU NU EMI36.1 tb SEP Freund s SEP adjuvant tb SEP I tb Rabbit SEP I SEP xx SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 7 SEP 47 SEP 9 SEP 11 SEP 13 SEP 15 tb SEP xxx SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 100 SEP 2000 SEP NDX SEP 20,000 SEP 20,000 tb SEP Freund s SEP adjuvant tb SEP tb Rabbit SEP I SEP xx SEP 17 SEP 19 SEP 21 SEP 23 SEP 25 SEP 27 tb SEP xxx SEP 20,000 SEP 800,000 SEP 600,000 SEP 500,000 SEP 600,000 SEP 600,000 tb SEP Freund s SEP adjuvant tb SEP I tb Rabbit SEP II SEP xx SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 7 SEP 9 SEP 11 SEP 13 SEP 15 tb SEP xxx SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 20 SEP 500 SEP NDX SEP 20,000 SEP 10,000 tb SEP Freund s SEP adjuvant tb SEP V tb Rabbit SEP II SEP xx SEP 17 SEP 19 SEP 21 SEP 23 SEP 25 SEP 27 tb SEP xxx SEP 8000 SEP 100,000 SEP 150,000 SEP 200,000 SEP 180,000 SEP 185,000 tb x not determined xx week xxx antiinterferon titers IFU NU ml Production of Anti Interferon by Means of Pure Stained InterferonProteins Cut Out From an SDS PAGE.The immunization was performed according to the protocol explained on page 11 of the present specification, using the minced interferoncontaining and partially washed and destained gel suspension directly as the immunogenic preparation. One rabbit III was immunized with the 18,400 lot200 Daltons species, and another rabbit IV was immunized with the 20,100 200 Daltons species died after week 15 .Good results were obtained, vide Table III TABLE III NEUTRALIZATION UNITSEMI37.1 tb SEP Freund s SEP adjuvant tb SEP I7 tb Rabbit SEP III SEP week SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 7 SEP 9 SEP 11 SEP 15 tb 18,400 SEP Dal tb tons SEP species SEP IFU NU ml SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 200 tb SEP 15 tb Rabbit SEP IV SEP week SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 7 SEP 9 SEP 11 tb 20,100 SEP Dal tb tons SEP species SEP IFU NU ml SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 200 tb Antigenicity of the 18,400 Daltons Species Versus the 20,100 DaltonsSpecies and Vice Versa.In order to show that the antigenic determinants of the above mentioned two species are identical, the following cross neutralization experiments were performed Interferon protein was eluted from the 18,400 200 Daltons speciesSDS PAGE band and the 20,100 200 Daltons species SDS PAGE band in the manner described above, and solutions containing 5 10 IFU of the two species were prepared. Solutions of anti interferon from the two species, prepared in rabbits as described above, were diluted to contain 20 IFU NU in total ml.Aliquots 1 ml of pure interferon species containing 10 IFU of the 18,400Daltons interferon species and 10 IFU of the 20,100 Daltons interferon species, respectively, were mixed with 1 ml solution of the 18,400 Daltons species anti interferon and 1 ml solution of the 20,100 Daltons species anti interferon, respectively, in all possible permutations, that is, the anti interferon of each species was mixed with the interferon of both species separately. After 1 hour at 370 C, any remaining interferon activity was determined by performing the usual interferon titration vide Materials andMethods above . No interferon activity was found.Thus, when mixing the 18,400 200 Daltons species and the 20,100 200 Daltons species, respectively, with each of the anti 18,400 200 Daltons species and the anti 20 100 200 Daltons species, separately, and vice versa, no interferon was detected, in other words, a complete neutralization had occurred. Therefore, it can be concluded that the two interferon species exhibit the same antigenic determinants.This implies that the anti 18,400 200 Daltons species will be useable as a monospecific antibody for purification of both interferon species, and the same applies for the anti 20,100 200 Daltons species, and for a mixture of the two species. Further experiments performed in the same manner showed that each of the six biological peaks was completely neutralized by each of the antisera raised against the two major species.It is highly likely that the two major species isolated from theNamalva SDS PAGE will give the same result, in other words, that they also cross react and show identity to HuLeIf in terms of antigenicity. HuLeIF 18,400 200 being identical to Namalva 18,400 200, both with respect to antigenicity and molecular weight, and KuLeIF 20,100 200 being similarly identical with Namalva 20,100 200 . Biological Effects of the Pure Interferon Proteins.Antiviral activity.The antiviral activity of each of the six stained protein bands shown in Fig. 3 was determined. The gel was loaded in two slots, both of which were stained. The stained bands in one of the slots is shown at A in Fig. 3. The other slot slot was then briefly destained in 50 methanol, 45 M2O2, 5 acetic acid , the exact location of the interferon proteins in the wet gel was recorded, and the gel was rinsed in water and was thereafter sliced as shown at B in Fig. 3. The number of gel slices is indicated at C in Fig. 3. In this manner, each interferon protein band was exactly cut out of the gel, without being mixed with the adjacent one. Each slice was eluted in the same manner as described in the section Materials and Methods , and the biological profile shown in Fig. 3 was constructed using the usual interferon titration described in Material and Methods .The neutralizing activity of each of the six species cut out and eluted from the SDS PAGE was checked against anti leukocyte interferon, and it was found that all of the species were completely neutralized by the same antiserum. The recovery of interferon in Fig. 3 was rather low 20 compared with normal SDS PAGE elution without pre staining except for the is,400 200 Daltons species , which indicates that the biological activity of most of the interferon species was selectively destroyed compared with the antigenicity. In the neutralization tests against anti leukocyte interferon, the interferon proteins eluted from Fig. 3 were able to neutralize the anti leukocyte interferon 3 5 times more effectively than native crude human leukocyte interferon, calculated on interferon activity basis, which indicates a selective destruction of determinants responsible for the biological activity.Non antiviral effects.The non antiviral effects of the pure human leukocyte interferon species were checked in 3 systems 1 Anti cellular activity.The anticellular activity of the pure interferon proteins was investigated by incubating Daudi cells with 1 1000 dilutions in medium of pure interferon proteins obtained from the eluted SDS PAGE fractions as shown in Fig. 2, by ascertaining the relative depression of Tritium labelled Thymidine I. Heron and K. Berg, The actions of interferon are potentiated at elevated temperature, Nature, 274, 508 510 1978 compared to controls without interferon Fig. 2, upper part, where G I designates growth inhibition . As can be clearly seen, the anticellular curve follows the antiviral curve very strictly.This proves that all the five species of pure native human leukocyte interferon contain both the antiviral activity and the anticellular activity. The peak size of the different anticellular peaks does not vary linearly with the corresponding size of the interferon peaks , which probably reflects the sensitivity of the Daudi cell system J. Hilfenhaus, H. Damm, H.E. Karges and K.E. Manthey,Growth inhibition of human lymphoblastoid Daudi cells in vitro by interferon preparations, Arch. Virol. 51, 87 97 1976 . The small interferon peak at 19,500 Daltons gave no rise to a corresponding peak in the anticellular curve. At a 10 fold lower dilution 1 100 , however, a small but distinct peak of anticellular activity was also observed not shown .2 The expression of major histocompatibility antigen MAC on lymphocytes and monocytes.The selective increase in ss2 associated MMC major histocompatibility antigen expression was observed using partially purified human leukocyte interferon, such as described by I. Heron, M. Hokland K. Berg 1978 , Enhanced expression of p2 microglobulin andHLA on human lymphoid cells by interferon , Proc. Natl. Acad.Sci. 75 6215 6222 referred to below as PNAS 75 . Each of the two major human leukocyte interferon species 18,400 and 20,100Daltons, vide Fig. 1 , was assayed in doses around 100 IFU per ml culture medium. The above mentioned effect was found using these pure molecular species, whereas eluates from gel slices outside the regions where antiviral activity was recorded had no effect. It has, thus, been proved that the effect of selective enhancement of MMC antigen expression on lymphoid cells is an inherent feature of the interferon molecules. 3 The potentiation of the Natural Killer cell system NK system .Fig 10 shows the antiviral profile as assessed on an SDS PAGE in the same manner as described in connection with Fig. 2 . Each of the species from the gel was assessed for NK enhancing activity, using the method described in PNAS 75. Fractions that have antiviral activity as shown in the lower curve gave increased NK, such as illustrated in the upper curve, whereas base line fractions did not. One arrow indicates only saline added as a negative control, and two arrows indicate partially purified human leukocyte interferon PIF used as a positive control. Around 100 IFU antiviral units of each interferon preparation was added per ml.