# Herbicidal composition.

## Abstract
A herbicidal composition which comprises as the active ingredients a 2 4 chloro 5 cyclopentyloxy carbonylmethylthio 2 fluorophenyl 4,5,6, 7 tetrahyd ro 2H isoindole 1,3 dione and b at least one of 2 1 ethoxyimino butyl 5 2 ethylthio propyl 3 hydroxy 2 cyclohexe n 1 one sethoxydim , butyl 2 4 5 trifluoromethyl 2 pyridinyl oxy phenoxy propionate fluazifop butyl , 3 isopropyl 1H 2,1,3 benzothiadiazin 4 3H one 2,2 dioxide bentazon and its salts, sodium 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate acifluorfen , 2 4,5 dihydro 4 methyl 4 1 methylethyl 5 oxo 1H imidazol 2 yl 3 qu inolinecar boxylic acid imazaquin and methyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitroacetophenoneoxime O acetate PPG 1013 , and an inert carrier or diluent. Said composition exerts an enhanced herbicidal potency.

## Claims
What is claimed is 1. A herbicidal composition which comprises as the active ingredients a 2 4 chloro 3 cyclopentyloxy carbonylmethylthio 2 fluorophenyl 4,5,6,7 tetrahydro 2H isoindole 1,3 dione and b at least one cf 2 1 ethoxyimino butyl 5 2 ethylthio propyl 3 hydroxy 2 cyclohexen l one sethoxydim , butyl 2 4 5 trifluoromethyl 2 pyridinyl oxy phenoxy propionate fluazifop butyl , 3 isopropyl lH 2,1,3 benzothiadi zin 4 3H one 2,2 aioxide bentazon and its salts, sodium 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoro methyl phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate acifluorfen , 2 4,5 ai hydro 4 methyl 4 1 methylethyl 5 oxo 1H imidazol 2 yl 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid imazaquin and methyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluorsmethylphenoxy 2 nitroacetophenoneOxime O acetate PPG 1013 , and an inert carrier or diluent. 2. The composition according to claim 1, wherein the weight proportion of the components a and b is from 1 0.01 to 1 100. 3. The composition according to claim 2, wherein the component b is chosen from sethoxydim and fluazifopbutyl, and the weight proportion of the components a and b is from 1 0.1 to 1 50. 4. The composition according to claim 2, wherein the component b is chosen from acifluorfen and imazaquin, and the weight proportion of the components a and b is from 1 0.2 to 1 50. 5. The composition according to claim 2, wherein the component b is bentazon, and the weight proportion of the components a and b is from 1 1 to 1 100. 6. The composition according to claim 2, wherein the component b is PPG 1013, and the weight proportion of the components a and b is from 1 0.01 to 1 10. 7. A method for controlling weeds which comprises applying a herbicidally effective remount of the composition according to claim 1 to the weeds. 8. The method according to claim 7, wherein the weeds are those germinated in the field of peanut or soybean. 9. The method according to claim 7, wherein the total amount of the components a and b is from 0.1 to 20 grams per are. 10. The method according to claim 9, wherein the component b is chosen from sethoxydim, fluazifop butyl and bentazon and its salts, and said total amount is from 0.1 to 20 grams per are. 11. The method according to claim 9, wherein the component b is chosen from acifluorfen and imazaquin, and said total amount is from 0.5 to 10 grams per are. 12. The method according to claim 9, wherein the component b is PPG 1013, and said total amount is from 0.1 to 3 grams per are.

## Description
HERBICIDAL COMPOSITION The present invention relates to a herbicidal composition. More particularly, it relates to a herbicidal composition comprising as the active ingredients a 2 4 chloro 5 cyclopentyloxycarbonylmethylthio 2 fluorophenyl 4,5,6,7 tetrahydro 2H isoindole 1,3 dione hereinafter referred to as Compound I of the formula EMI1.1 and b at least one of 2 1 ethoxyimino butyl 5 2 ethylthio propyl 3 hydroxy 2 cyclohexen 1 one hereinafter referred to as sethoxydim of the formula EMI1.2 butyl 2 4 5 trifluoromethyl 2 pyridinyl oxy phenoxy propionate hereinafter referred to as fluazifop butyl of the formula EMI1.3 3 isopropyl lH 2,1,3 benzothiadiazin 4 3H one 2,2 dioxide hereinafter referred to as bentazon of the formula EMI2.1 and its salts, sodium 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate hereinafter referred to as acifluorfen of the formula EMI2.2 2 4,5 dihydro 4 methyl 4 1 methylethyl 5 oXo lH imidazol 2 yl 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid hereinafter referred to as imazaquin of the formula EMI2.3 and methyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitro acetophenonoxime O acetate hereinafter referred to as PPG 1013 of the formula EMI2.4 which exerts a highly enhanced herbicidal activity against a wide variety of weeds without causing any material phytotoxicity to crop plants, particularly to peanut and soybean. In recent years, there have been used a great number of chemicals having herbicidal activities in order to exterminate or control the undesired vegetation of weeds.Since, however, weeds are diversified in kinds and grow over a long period of time, there is always present a demand for a new herbicidal agent having a stronger herbicidal potency with a weaker chemical injury. As a result of the extensive study, it has now been found that the associated use of a Compound I with b at least one of sethoxydim, fluazifop butyl, bentazon and its salts, acifluorfen, imazaquin and PPG 1013, these being hereinafter referred to as Compounds II , produces a highly enhanced herbicidal activity against a wide variety of weeds without causing any material phytotoxicity to crop plants, particularly peanut or soybean. In comparison with the sole use of each of said active ingredients, enhancement of the herbicidal potency on such associated use is remarkable so that the active ingredients may be applied in smaller dosages. Thus, a clear and definite synergistic effect is observed in said associated use. The herbicidal composition of the invention can exterminate or control a variety of weeds, i.e. dicotyledonous weeds such as common lambsquarters Chenopodium album , redroot pigweed Amaranthus retroflexus , smartweed Polvgonum sp. , common chickweed Stellaria media , common purslane Portulaca oleracea , common cocklehur Xanthium strumarium , jimsonweed Datura stramonium and velvetleaf Abutilon theochrasti , Ipomoea plants such as tall morningglory Ipomoea purpurea , hemp sesbania Sesbania exaltata , prickly sida sick spinosa , black nightshade Solanum niarum and common sunflower Helianthus annuus , monocotyledonous weeds such as green foxtail Setaria viridis , southern crabgrass Diaitaria ciliaris , goosegrass Eleusine indica , barnyardgrass Echinochloa crus aalli and johnsongrass Sorghum halepense , etc. Compound I is known to exert a herbicidal activity EP A 0126419 . Compounds II , i.e. sethoxydim Herbicide Handbook of the Weed Science Society of America, 5th Ed., p.37 1983 fluazifop butyl Herbicide Handbook of the Weed Science Society cf America, 5th Ed., p.233 1983 bentazon and its salts Herbicide Handbook of theWeed Science Society of America, 5th Ed., p.50 1983 acifluorfen Herbicide Handbook of the Weed Science Society of America, 5th Ed., p.3 1983 imazaquin EP A 0041623 and PPG 1013 U.S. patent 4,344,789 , are also known to have a herbicidal activity. However, the associated use ofCompound I with any of Compounds II has never been attempted, and the production of said synergistic effect on such associated use has never been expected. The proportion of Compound I as the component a and Compound s II as the component b in the composition of the invention may vary in a considerably broad range, usually from 1 0.01 to I 100 by weight.When Compound II is sethoxydim or fluazifop butyl, its amount may be preferably from 0.1 to 50 parts by weight, especially from 0.5 to 20 parts by weight, to one part by weight of Compound I . When acifluorfen or imazaquin is used as Compound II , its amount may be favorably from 0.2 to 50 parts by weight, particularly from 0.2 to 20 parts by weight, to one part by weight of Compound I . In case ofCompound II being bentazon or its salt, it may be used preferably in an amount of from 1 to 100 parts by weight, especially from 3 to 50 parts by weight, to one part by weight of Compound I . In case of Compound II beingPPG 1013, its amount is favored to be from 0.01 to 10 parts by weight, especially from 0.05 to 5 parts by weight, to one part by weight of Compound I . In addition to the above active ingredients, the composition may contain a solid or liquid carrier or diluent. Any surface active or auxiliary agent may be also contained therein. Thus, the composition may be formulated in any conventional preparation form such as emulsifiable concentrate, wettable powder or suspension. The total content of the active ingredients, i.e. Compound I and Compound s II , may be from 0.5 to 90 by weight. WhenCompound s II is are chosen from sethoxydim, fluazifopbutyl, bentazon and its salts and acifluorfen, its or their combined amount with Compound I is preferred to be from 0.5 to 90 , especially from 2 to 80 by weight.When Compound s II is are chosen from imazaquin and PPG 1013, its or their combined amount with Compound I is favored to be from 0.5 to 90 by weight, particularly from 1 to 80 by weight. As the solid carrier or diluent, there may be used kaolin clay, attapulgite clay, bentonite, terra alba, pyro phyllite, talc, diatomaceous earth, calcite, wallnutshell powder, urea, ammonium sulfate, synthetic hydrated silica, etc. Examples of the liquid carrier or diluent are aromatic hydrocarbons e.g. xylene, methylnaphthalene , alcohols e.g. isopropanol, ethylene glycol, cellosolve , ketones e.g. acetone, cyclohexanone, isophorone , vegetable oils e.g. soybean oil, cotton seed oil , dimethylsulfoxide, acetonitrile, water, etc. The surface active agent used for emulsification, dispersion or spreading may be any of the anionic and nonionic type of agents. Examples of the surface active agent include alkylsulfates, alkylarylsulfonates, dialkylsulro succinates, phosphates of polyoxyethylenealkylaryl ethers, polyoxyethylene alkyl ethers, polyoxyethylene alkylaryl ethers, polyoxyethylene polyoxypropylene block copolymers, sorbitan fatty acid esters, polyoxyethylene sorbitan fatty acid esters, etc. Examples of the auxiliary agents include ligninsulfonates, sodium alginate, polyvinyl alcohol, gum arabic, CMC carboxymethyl cellulose , PAP isopropyl acid phosphate , etc. Practical embodiments of the composition are illustratively shown in the following Formulation Examples wherein part s are weight. Formulation Example 1 Twenty parts of Compound I , 30 parts of sethoxydim or fluazifop butyl, 3 parts of calcium ligninsulfonate, 2 parts of sodium laurylsulfate and 45 parts of synthetic hydrated silicon dioxide are well mixed and pulverized to obtain a wettable powder. Formulation Example 2 Ten parts of Compound I , 10 parts of bentazon sodium salt , imazaquin or PPG 1013, 10 parts of synthetic hydrated silica, 3 parts of alkylsulfate, 2 parts of calcium ligninsulfonate and 65 parts of diatomaceous earth are well mixed and pulverized to obtain a wettable powder. Formulation Example 3 Forty parts of Compound I , 40 parts of acifluorfen or bentazon sodium salt , 3 parts of calcium ligninsulfonate, 2 parts of sodium laurylsulfate and 15 parts of synthetic hydrated silica are well mixed and pulverized to obtain a wettable powder. Formulation Example 4 Five parts of Compound I , 15 parts of sethoxydim, 14 parts of polyoxyethylenestyryl phenyl ether, 6 parts of calcium dodecylbenzenesulfonate, 30 parts of xylene and 30 parts of isophorone are well mixed to obtain an emulsifiable concentrate. Formulation Example 5 Four parts of Compound I , 2 parts of bentazon, 14 parts of polyoxyethylenestyryl phenyl ether, 6 parts of calcium dodecylbenzenesulfonate, 34 parts of xylene and 40 parts of cyclohexanone are well mixed to obtain an emulsifiable concentrate. Formulation Example 6 Five parts of Compound I , 20 parts of fluazifopbutyl, 3 parts of polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate, 3 parts oz CMC and 69 parts of water are mixed and pulverized until the particle size of the solid components becomes less than 5 microns to obtain a suspension. Formulation Example 7 Five parts of Compound I , 3 parts of polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate, 3 parts of CMC and 69 parts of water are well mixed and pulverized until the particle size of the solid components becomes less than 5 microns to obtain a suspension, followed by dissolving 20 parts of acifluorfen therein to obtain a suspension. Formulation Example 8 1.5 parts of Compound I , 0.5 part cf fluazifopbutyl, 1 part of polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate, 5 parts of polyvinyl alcohol and 92 parts of water are well mixed and pulverized until the particle size of the solid components becomes less than 5 microns to obtain a suspension. Formulation Example 9 0.5 part of Compound I , 1.5 parts of acifluorfen, imazaquin or PPG 1013, 1 part of synthetic hydrated silica, 2 parts of calcium ligninsulfonate, 30 parts of bentonite and 65 parts of kaolin clay are well mixed and pulverized. The resulting powder is admixed with water and dried to obtain granules. A composition comprising Compound I and Compound s II thus formulated is useful for post emergence control of undesired weeds by foliar treatment. The foliar treatment may be effected by spraying the composition containing Compound I and Compound s II over the top of plants. The direct application may also be adopted. In order to improve the herbicidal activity, the composition may be used with other herbicides. Besides, it may be used in combination with insecticides, acaricides, nematocides, fungicides, plant growth regulators, fertilizers, soil improvers, etc. The dosage of the active ingredients may vary depending on prevailing weather conditions, soil involved, formulation used, mixing proportion of each active ingredient, crop and weed species, etc. In general, however, the total amount of Compound I and Compound s II is within a range of about0.1 to 20 grams per are. WhenCompound s II is are chosen from sethoxydim, fluazifopbutyl and bentazon and its salts, said total amount is preferred to be from about 0.1 to 20 grams per are. WhenCompound s II is are chosen from acifluorofen and imaxaquin, said total amount may be favorably from about 0.5 to 10 grams per are. When Compound II is PPG 1013, said total amount may be preferably from about 0.1 to 3 grams per are. In case of the composition being formulated into an emulsifiable concentrate, wettable powder or suspension, it is normally diluted with water and applied over the top at a volume of about 1 to 10 liters per are to the foliage of the crop plants or weeds which germinate or have germinated. The dilution may include, in addition to the above mentioned surface active agent, any spreading or auxiliary agent such as polyoxyethylene resin acid esters, ligninsulfonates, abietic acid, dinaphthylmethanedisulfonates, paraffin and the like. The practical herbicidal activity of the system of the invention will be explained in further detail with reference to the following Test Examples wherein the growth controlling percentage was determined by weighing the aerial parts of the test plants fresh weight and making calculation according to the following equation EMI10.1 tb Growth SEP Fresh SEP weight SEP of SEP test tb controlling SEP plant SEP in SEP treated SEP plot tb SEP SEP 1 SEP SEP x SEP 100 tb percentage SEP Fresh SEP weight SEP of SEP test tb SEP SEP plant SEP in SEP untreated SEP plot tb The phytotoxicity to crop plants was visually observed. Test Example 1 Seeds of green foxtail, johnsongrass, black nightshade, velvetleaf, redroot pigweed and peanut were sowed in a concrete pot 40 x 35 cm2, 35 cm H filled with field soil and the test plants were grown for 15 days in outdoors.A designed amount of the composition in the form of a wettable powder formulated as in Formulation Example 1 was diluted with water containing a spreading agent and sprayed to the foliage of the test plants at a spray volume of 5 liters per are by the aid of a small hand sprayer. After 21 days cultivation in outdoors, the growth controlling percentage was observed. The results are shown in Tables 1 A and 1 B. At the time of treatment, the test plants were in general at 1.5 to 4 leaf stage, although the growing stage varied depending on each species. Table 1 A EMI11.1 Compound SEP Dosage SEP Mixing SEP Growth SEP controlling SEP percentage SEP PhytoNo. SEP g a SEP ratio SEP SEP toxicity tb Green SEP Johnson SEP Velvet SEP Redroot SEP Peanut tb foxtail SEP grass SEP night SEP leaf SEP pigweed tb shade tb Compound SEP 2 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb I SEP 1 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.5 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.2 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.1 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 90 SEP 90 SEP 90 SEP None tb Sethoxy SEP 8 SEP SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP None tb dim SEP 4 SEP SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP None tb 2 SEP SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP None tb 1 SEP SEP 89 SEP 81 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP None tb 0.5 SEP SEP 59 SEP 56 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP None tb Compound SEP 0.1 0.5 SEP 1 5 SEP 83 SEP 71 SEP 96 SEP 95 SEP 95 SEP None tb I SEP 0.1 1 SEP 1 10 SEP 98 SEP 94 SEP 99 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.1 2 SEP 1 20 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb Sethoxy SEP 0.1 4 SEP 1 40 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb dim tb 0.2 0.5 SEP 2 5 SEP 91 SEP 81 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.2 1 SEP 1 5 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.2 2 SEP 1 10 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.2 4 SEP 1 20 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb Continued EMI12.1 Compound SEP Dosage SEP Mixing SEP Growth SEP controlling SEP percentage SEP PhytoNo. SEP g a SEP ratio SEP SEP toxicity tb Green SEP Johnson SEP Black SEP Velvet SEP Redroot SEP Peanut tb foxtail SEP grass SEP night SEP leaf SEP pigweed tb shade tb Compound SEP 0.5 0.5 SEP 1 1 SEP 100 SEP 96 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb I SEP 0.5 1 SEP 1 2 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.5 2 SEP 1 4 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb Sethoxy SEP 0.5 4 SEP 1 8 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb dim tb 1 0.5 SEP 2 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 1 1 SEP 1 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 1 2 SEP 1 2 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 1 4 SEP 1 4 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb Untreated SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP None tb Table 1 B EMI13.1 Compound SEP Dosage SEP Mixing SEP Growth SEP controlling SEP percentage SEP PhytoNo. SEP g a SEP ratio SEP SEP toxicity tb Green SEP Johnson SEP Black SEP Velvet SEP Redroot SEP Peanut tb foxtail SEP grass SEP night SEP leaf SEP pigweed tb shade tb Compound SEP 2 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb I SEP 1 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.5 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.2 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.1 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 90 SEP 90 SEP 90 SEP None tb Fluazifop SEP 8 SEP SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP None tb butyl SEP 4 SEP SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP None tb 2 SEP SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP None tb 1 SEP SEP 88 SEP 80 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP None tb 0.5 SEP SEP 60 SEP 55 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP None tb Compound SEP 0.1 0.5 SEP 1 5 SEP 82 SEP 70 SEP 95 SEP 95 SEP 95 SEP None tb I SEP 0.1 1 SEP 1 10 SEP 98 SEP 93 SEP 98 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP 0.1 2 SEP 1 20 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb Fluzifop SEP 0.1 4 SEP 1 40 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb butyl tb 0.2 0.5 SEP 2 5 SEP 90 SEP 80 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.2 1 SEP 1 5 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.2 2 SEP 1 10 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.2 4 SEP 1 20 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb Continued EMI14.1 Compound SEP Dosage SEP Mixing SEP Growth SEP controlling SEP percentage SEP PhytoNo. SEP g a SEP ratio SEP SEP toxicity tb Green SEP Johnson SEP Black SEP Velvet SEP Redroot SEP Peanut tb foxtail SEP grass SEP night SEP leaf SEP pigweed tb shade tb Compound SEP 0.5 0.5 SEP 1 1 SEP 100 SEP 95 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb I SEP 0.5 1 SEP 1 2 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP 0.5 2 SEP 1 4 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb Fluazifop SEP 0.5 4 SEP 1 8 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb butyl tb 1 0.5 SEP 2 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 1 1 SEP 1 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 1 2 SEP 1 2 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 1 4 SEP 1 4 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb Untreated SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP None tb Test Example 2 Seeds of tall morningglory, common cociebur, black nightshade, velvetleaf, hemp sesbania, prickly sida, redroot pigweed and peanut were sowed in a concrete pot 40 x 35 cm2, 35 cm H filled with field soil and the test plants were grown for 18 days in outdoors.A designed amount of the composition in the form of a wettable powder formulated as in Formulation Example 1 was diluted with water containing a spreading agent and sprayed to the foliage of the test plants at a spray volume of 5 liters per are by the aid of a small hand sprayer. After 21 days cultivation in outdoors, the growth controlling percentage was observed. The results are shown in Tables 2 A, 2 E and 2 C. At the time of treatment, the test plants were in general at the stage of germination of cotyledon to 4 leaf stage and in 1 to 18 cm height, although the growing stage varied depending on each species. Table 2 A EMI16.1 Compound SEP Dosage SEP Mixing SEP Growth SEP controlling SEP percentage SEP PhytoNo. SEP g a SEP ratio SEP SEP toxicity tb SEP Black SEP Tall SEP Prickly SEP Redroot SEP Common SEP Peanut tb night SEP morning SEP sida SEP pigweed SEP cocklebur tb shade SEP glory tb Compound SEP 2 SEP SEP 100 SEP 98 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb I SEP 1 SEP SEP 95 SEP 90 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 98 SEP None tb 0.5 SEP SEP 90 SEP 90 SEP 100 SEP 98 SEP 88 SEP None tb 0.2 SEP SEP 95 SEP 80 SEP 98 SEP 95 SEP 93 SEP None tb 0.1 SEP SEP 88 SEP 65 SEP 93 SEP 93 SEP 90 SEP None tb SEP Bentazon SEP 20 SEP SEP 50 SEP 40 SEP 100 SEP 85 SEP 100 SEP None tb 10 SEP SEP 20 SEP 0 SEP 90 SEP 85 SEP 98 SEP None tb 5 SEP SEP 10 SEP 0 SEP 65 SEP 83 SEP 90 SEP None tb 2 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 10 SEP 50 SEP 75 SEP None tb 1 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 20 SEP 50 SEP None tb Compound SEP 0.1 1 SEP 1 1 SEP 100 SEP 70 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb I SEP 0.1 2 SEP 1 20 SEP 100 SEP 88 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP 0.1 5 SEP 1 50 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP Bentazon SEP 0.1 10 SEP 1 10 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.2 1 SEP 1 5 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.2 2 SEP 1 10 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.2 5 SEP 1 25 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.2 10 SEP 1 50 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.5 1 SEP 1 2 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.5 2 SEP 1 4 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.5 5 SEP 1 10 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.5 10 SEP 1 20 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb Continued EMI17.1 Compound SEP Dosage SEP Mixing SEP Growth SEP controlling SEP percentage SEP PhytoNo. SEP g a SEP ratio SEP SEP toxicity tb SEP Black SEP Tall SEP Prickly SEP Redroot SEP Common SEP Peanut tb night SEP morning SEP sida SEP pigweed SEP cocklebur tb shade SEP glory tb Compound SEP 1 1 SEP 1 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb I SEP 1 2 SEP 1 2 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP 1 5 SEP 1 5 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP Bentazon SEP 1 10 SEP 1 10 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb Untreated SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP None tb Table 2 B EMI18.1 Compound SEP Dosage SEP Mixing SEP Growth SEP controlling SEP percentage SEP PhytoNo. SEP g a SEP ratio SEP SEP toxicity tb Common SEP Velvet SEP Tall SEP Prickly SEP Green SEP Peanut tb cocklebur SEP leaf SEP morning SEP sida SEP foxtail tb glory tb Compound SEP 2 SEP SEP 100 SEP 98 SEP 98 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb I SEP 1 SEP SEP 98 SEP 90 SEP 90 SEP 100 SEP 95 SEP None tb 0.5 SEP SEP 88 SEP 90 SEP 90 SEP 100 SEP 90 SEP None tb 0.2 SEP SEP 93 SEP 88 SEP 80 SEP 98 SEP 95 SEP None tb 0.1 SEP SEP 90 SEP 65 SEP 65 SEP 93 SEP 88 SEP None tb Aci SEP 12 SEP SEP 88 SEP 85 SEP 95 SEP 88 SEP 93 SEP None tb fluorfen SEP 6 SEP SEP 75 SEP 73 SEP 85 SEP 95 SEP 67 SEP None tb 3 SEP SEP 70 SEP 60 SEP 60 SEP 40 SEP 95 SEP None tb 1.5 SEP SEP 65 SEP 20 SEP 40 SEP 10 SEP 90 SEP None tb 0.7 SEP SEP 40 SEP 0 SEP 10 SEP 0 SEP 80 SEP None tb Compound SEP 0.1 0.7 SEP 1 7 SEP 100 SEP 70 SEP 88 SEP 98 SEP 100 SEP None tb I SEP 0.1 1.5 SEP 1 15 SEP 100 SEP 91 SEP 99 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP 0.1 3 SEP 1 30 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb Aci SEP 0.1 6 SEP 1 60 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb fluorfen tb 0.2 0.7 SEP 2 7 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.2 1.5 SEP 2 15 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.2 3 SEP 1 15 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.2 6 SEP 1 30 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb Continued EMI19.1 Compound SEP Dosage SEP Mixing SEP Growth SEP controlling SEP percentage SEP PhytoNo. SEP g a SEP ratio SEP SEP toxicity tb Common SEP Velvet SEP Tall SEP Prickly SEP Green SEP Peanut tb cocklebur SEP leaf SEP morning SEP sida SEP foxtail tb glory tb Compound SEP 0.5 0.7 SEP 5 7 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb I SEP 0.5 1.5 SEP 1 3 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP 0.5 3 SEP 1 6 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb Aci SEP 0.5 6 SEP 1 12 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb fluorfen tb 1 0.7 SEP 10 7 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 1 1.5 SEP 2 3 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 1 3 SEP 1 3 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 1 6 SEP 1 6 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb Untreated SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP None tb Table 2 C EMI20.1 Compound SEP Dosage SEP Mixing SEP Growth SEP controlling SEP percentage SEP PhytoNo. SEP g a SEP ratio SEP SEP toxicity tb SEP Black SEP Tall SEP Prickly SEP Redroot SEP Common SEP Peanut tb night SEP morning SEP sida SEP pigweed SEP cocklebur tb shade SEP glory tb Compound SEP 2 SEP SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 98 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb I SEP 1 SEP SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 90 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.5 SEP SEP 100 SEP 93 SEP 90 SEP 100 SEP 98 SEP None tb 0.2 SEP SEP 98 SEP 88 SEP 80 SEP 100 SEP 80 SEP None tb 0.1 SEP SEP 90 SEP 85 SEP 65 SEP 98 SEP 70 SEP None tb SEP PPG 1013 SEP 0.8 SEP SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP Observed tb 0.4 SEP SEP 100 SEP 92 SEP 95 SEP 90 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.2 SEP SEP 93 SEP 60 SEP 60 SEP 90 SEP 80 SEP None tb 0.1 SEP SEP 60 SEP 33 SEP 30 SEP 50 SEP 53 SEP None tb 0.05 SEP SEP 20 SEP 10 SEP 9 SEP 18 SEP 19 SEP None tb Compound SEP 0.1 0.05 SEP 2 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 90 SEP 100 SEP 95 SEP None tb I SEP 0.1 0.1 SEP 1 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP 0.1 0.2 SEP 1 2 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP PPG 1013 SEP 0.1 0.4 SEP 1 4 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.2 0.05 SEP 4 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.2 0.1 SEP 1 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.2 0.2 SEP 1 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.2 0.4 SEP 1 2 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.5 0.05 SEP 10 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.5 0.1 SEP 5 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.5 0.2 SEP 5 2 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.5 0.4 SEP 5 4 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb Continued EMI21.1 Compound SEP Dosage SEP Mixing SEP Growth SEP controlling SEP percentage SEP PhytoNo. SEP g a SEP ratio SEP SEP toxicity tb Velve SEP Prickly SEP Tall SEP Redroot SEP Common SEP Peanut tb leaf SEP sida SEP morning SEP pigweed SEP cocklebur tb glory tb Compound SEP 1 0.05 SEP 20 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb I SEP 1 0.1 SEP 10 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP 1 0.2 SEP 5 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP PPG 1013 SEP 1 0.4 SEP 5 2 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb Untreated SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP None tb Test Example 4 Seeds of tall morningglory, velvetleaf, common cocklebur, redroot pigweed, black nightshade and peanut were sowed in a concrete pot 40 x 35 cm2, 35 cm H filled with field soil and the test plants were grown for 22 days in outdoors. A designed amount of the composition in the form of a wettable powder formulated as in Formulation Example 1 was diluted with water containing a spreading agent and sprayed to the foliage of the test plants at a spray volume of 5 liters per are by the aid of a small hand sprayer.After 20 days cultivation in outdoors, the growth controlling percentage was observed. The results are shown in Table 3. At the time of treatment, the test plants were in general at 1 to 5 leaf stage and in 2 to 13 cm height, although the growing stage varied depending on each species. Table 3 EMI23.1 Compound SEP Dosage SEP Mixing SEP Growth SEP controlling SEP percentage SEP PhytoNo. SEP g a SEP ratio SEP SEP toxicity tb Tall SEP Velvet SEP Common SEP Redroot SEP Black SEP Peanut tb morning SEP leaf SEP cocklebur SEP pigweed SEP nightglory SEP shade tb Compound SEP 2 SEP SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb I SEP 1 SEP SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 95 SEP 95 SEP 95 SEP None tb 0.5 SEP SEP 90 SEP 100 SEP 80 SEP 85 SEP 90 SEP None tb 0.2 SEP SEP 80 SEP 95 SEP 60 SEP 70 SEP 85 SEP None tb 0.1 SEP SEP 70 SEP 80 SEP 50 SEP 60 SEP 75 SEP None tb Imazaquin SEP 4 SEP SEP 67 SEP 3 SEP 95 SEP 100 SEP 85 SEP None tb 2 SEP SEP 60 SEP 1 SEP 90 SEP 80 SEP 65 SEP None tb 1 SEP SEP 45 SEP 0 SEP 90 SEP 65 SEP 40 SEP None tb 0.5 SEP SEP 40 SEP 0 SEP 78 SEP 38 SEP 20 SEP None tb 0.2 SEP SEP 30 SEP 0 SEP 65 SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP None tb Compound SEP 0.1 0.2 SEP 1 2 SEP 80 SEP 100 SEP 85 SEP 90 SEP 90 SEP None tb I SEP 0.1 0.5 SEP 1 5 SEP 88 SEP 100 SEP 90 SEP 95 SEP 95 SEP None tb SEP 0.1 1 SEP 1 10 SEP 95 SEP 100 SEP 95 SEP 98 SEP 98 SEP None tb Imazaquin SEP 0.1 2 SEP 1 20 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.2 0.2 SEP 1 1 SEP 95 SEP 100 SEP 98 SEP 99 SEP 95 SEP None tb 0.2 0.5 SEP 2 5 SEP 95 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 98 SEP None tb 0.2 1 SEP 1 5 SEP 99 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 98 SEP None tb 0.2 2 SEP 1 10 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.5 0.2 SEP 5 2 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.5 1 SEP 1 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.5 2 SEP 1 2 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.5 4 SEP 1 4 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb Continued EMI24.1 Compound SEP Dosage SEP Mixing SEP Growth SEP controlling SEP percentage SEP PhytoNo. SEP g a SEP ratio SEP SEP toxicity tb Tall SEP Velvet SEP Common SEP Redroot SEP Black SEP Peanut tb morning SEP leaf SEP cocklebur SEP pigweed SEP nightglory SEP shade tb Compound SEP 1 0.2 SEP 5 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb I SEP 1 0.5 SEP 2 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP 1 1 SEP 1 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb Imazaquin SEP 1 2 SEP 1 2 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb Untreated SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP None tb Test Example 5 Seeds of green foxtail, jonhsongrass, redroot pigweed, velvetleaf and soybean were sowed in a concrete pot 40 x 35 cm2, 35 cm H filled with field soil and the test plants were grown for 15 days in outdoors.A designed amount of the composition in the form of a wettable powder formulated as in Formulation Example 1 was diluted with water containing a spreading agent and sprayed to the foliage of the test plants at a spray volume of 5 liters per are by the aid of a small hand sprayer. After 20 days cultivation in outdoors, the growth controlling percentage was observed. The results are shown in Tables 4 A and 4 B. At the time of treatment, the test plants were in general at 1 to 3 leaf stage, although the growing stage varied depending on each species. Table 4 AEMI26.1 tb Compound SEP Dosage SEP Mixing SEP Growth SEP controlling SEP Phyto tb SEP No. SEP g a SEP ratio SEP percentage SEP SEP toxicity tb SEP 1 SEP Green SEP SEP Redroot SEP Velvet SEP Soybean tb fox SEP pigweed SEP leaf tb tail tb Compound SEP 0.5 SEP SEP 0 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP I SEP 0.1 SEP SEP 0 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP 0.1 SEP SEP 0 SEP 93 SEP 95 SEP None tb SEP Sethoxydim SEP 2 SEP SEP 100 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP None tb SEP 1 SEP SEP 90 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP None tb SEP 0.5 SEP SEP 65 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP None tb SEP Compound SEP 0.1 0.5 SEP 1 5 SEP 88 SEP 97 SEP 99 SEP None tb SEP I SEP 0.1 1 SEP 1 10 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP . SEP SEP None tb SEP SEP 0.1 2 SEP 1 20 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP SEP None tb SEP Sethoxydim tb SEP 0.2 0.5 SEP 2 5 SEP 95 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP 0.2 1 SEP 1 5 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP 0.2 2 SEP 1 10 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP 0.5 0.5 SEP 1 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP 0.5 1 SEP 1 2 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP 0.5 2 SEP 1 4 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb Untreated SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP None tb Table L 3EMI27.1 tb Compound SEP Dosage SEP SEP Mixing SEP SEP Growth SEP controlling SEP .Phyto tb No. SEP g a SEP ratio SEP percentage SEP SEP toxicity tb SEP Johnson SEP Redroot SEP Velvet SEP Soybean tb grass SEP pigweed SEP leaf tb Compound SEP 0.5 SEP SEP 0 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP I SEP 0.1 SEP SEP 0 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.1 SEP SEP 0 SEP 93 SEP 95 SEP None tb Fluazifop SEP 2 SEP SEP 100 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP None tb butyl SEP 1 SEP SEP 85 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP None tb 0.5 SEP SEP 60 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP None tb Compound SEP 0.1 0.5 SEP 1 5 SEP 78 SEP 97 SEP 99 SEP None tb SEP 1 SEP 0.1 1 SEP 1 10 SEP 97 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP SEP 0.1 2 SEP 1 20 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb Fluazifop tb butyl SEP 0.2 0.5 SEP 2 5 SEP 90 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.2 1 SEP 1 5 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP 0.2 1 SEP 1 10 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP 0.5 0.5 SEP 1 1 SEP 1 1 SEP SEP 99 SEP 100 SEP SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP 0.5 1 SEP 1 2 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.5 2 SEP 1 4 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb Untreated SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP None tb Test Example 6 Seeds of redroot pigweed, common lambsquarters, prickly sida, velvetleaf, tall morningglory, green foxtail and soybean were sowed in a concrete pot 40 x 35 cm2, 35 ca H filled with field soil and the test plants were grown for 22 days in outdoors.A designed amount of the composition in the form of a wettable powder formulated as inFormulation Example I was diluted with water containing a spreading agent and sprayed to the foliage of the test plants at a spray volume of 5 liters Fer are by the aid of a small hand sprayer. After 20 days cultivation in outdoors, the growth controlling percentage was observed. The results are shown in Tables 5 A, 5 B,. 5 C and 5 D. At the time of treatment, the test plants were in general at 1 to 5 leaf stage and in 2 to 13 cm height, although the growing stage varied depending on each species. Table 5 AEMI29.1 tb Compound SEP Dosage SEP Mixing SEP Growth SEP controlling SEP Phyto tb SEP No. SEP g a SEP ratio SEP percentage SEP SEP toxicity tb SEP SEP SEP Velvet SEP Prickly SEP , SEP Tall SEP Soybean tb SEP leaf SEP sida SEP morning tb glory tb SEP Compound SEP 0.9 SEP SEP 100 SEP 95 SEP 95 SEP None tb SEP I SEP 0.3 SEP SEP 100 SEP 80 SEP 80 SEP z SEP SEP None tb SEP 0.1 SEP SEP 90 SEP 70 SEP 65 SEP None tb SEP Bentazon SEP 9 SEP SEP 90 SEP 80 SEP 50 SEP None tb SEP 3 SEP SEP 53 SEP 30 SEP 10 SEP SEP None tb SEP 1 SEP SEP SEP 1 SEP o SEP O SEP j SEP None tb Compound SEP 0.1 SEP 1 10 SEP 100 SEP 95 SEP 70 SEP 1 SEP None tb SEP I SEP 0.1 3 SEP 1 30 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP SEP 0.1 9 SEP 1 90 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb Bentazon tb SEP 0.3 1 SEP 3 10 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP 0.3 3 SEP 1 10 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP 0.3 9 SEP 1 30 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP SEP None tb SEP 0.9 1 SEP 9 10 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP 0.9 3 SEP 3 10 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP 0.9 9 SEP 1 10 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP Untreated SEP SEP 01010 SEP None tb Table 5 5 EMI30.1 tb SEP Compound SEP i SEP Dosage SEP Mixing SEP SEP Growth SEP controlling SEP SEP Phyto tb No. SEP g a SEP ratio SEP percentage SEP SEP toxicity tb SEP Redroot SEP Common SEP Prickly SEP Velvet SEP Soybean tb SEP pigweed SEP lambs SEP sida SEP leaf tb SEP quarters tb Compound SEP SEP 0.9 SEP SEP 100 SEP SEP 90 SEP SEP 95 SEP SEP 100 SEP SEP None tb SEP I SEP 0.3 SEP SEP 85 SEP 80 SEP 80 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP 0.1 SEP SEP 70 SEP 70 SEP 70 SEP 90 SEP None tb Aci SEP 2.7 SEP SEP SEP SEP 90 SEP SEP 80 SEP SEP 40 SEP SEP 60 SEP SEP None tb SEP fluorfen SEP 0.9 SEP SEP SEP 70 SEP SEP 43 SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP None tb 0.3 SEP SEP 30 SEP 20 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP None tb Compound SEP 0.1 0.3 SEP 1 3 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 88 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP I SEP SEP 0.1 0.9 SEP 1 9 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 95 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP SEP 0.1 2.7 SEP 1 27 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb Aci tb SEP fluorfen SEP 0.3 0.3 SEP 1 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 98 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP 0.3 0.9 SEP 1 3 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP 0.3 2.7 SEP 1 9 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP 0.9 0.3 SEP 3 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP 0.9 0.9 SEP 3 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP 0.9 2.7 SEP 1 3 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb Untreated SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP None tb Table 5 CEMI31.1 Compound SEP SEP Dosage SEP SEP Mixing SEP Growth SEP controlling SEP Phyto SEP tb No. SEP g a SEP ratio SEP percentage SEP SEP toxicity tb Redroot SEP Prickly SEP Black SEP Soybean tb SEP pigweed SEP sida SEP nightshade tb Compound SEP 0.9 SEP SEP 100 SEP 95 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP I SEP 0.3 SEP SEP 85 SEP 80 SEP 90 SEP None tb 0.1 SEP SEP 70 SEP 70 SEP 80 SEP None tb SEP Imazaquin SEP 1.8 SEP SEP 85 SEP 10 SEP 65 SEP None tb SEP 0.6 SEP SEP 64 SEP 3 SEP 35 SEP None tb SEP 0.2 SEP SEP 15 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP None tb Compound SEP 0.1 0.2 SEP 1 2 SEP 90 SEP 85 SEP 90 SEP None tb SEP I SEP 0.1 0.6 SEP 1 6 SEP 100 SEP 95 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP SEP 0.1 1.8 SEP 1 18 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP Imazaquin tb SEP 0.3 0.2 SEP 3 2 SEP 100 SEP 90 SEP 98 SEP None tb SEP 0.3 0.6 SEP 1 2 SEP 100 SEP 95 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP 0.3 1.8 SEP , SEP 1 6 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP 0.9 0.2 SEP 9 2 SEP 100 SEP 1 SEP 100 SEP SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP 0.9 0.6 SEP i SEP 3 2 SEP 100 SEP SEP 100 SEP SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP 0.9 1.8 SEP 1 SEP 1 2 SEP 100 SEP SEP 100 SEP SEP 100 SEP None tb Untreated SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP None tb Table 5 DEMI32.1 SEP Compound SEP Dosage SEP Mixing SEP Growth SEP controlling SEP Phyto tb SEP No. SEP g a SEP ratio SEP percentage SEP SEP toxicity tb SEP Redroot SEP Black SEP Prickly SEP Soybean tb pigweed SEP night SEP sida tb SEP shade tb Compound SEP 0.9 SEP SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 95 SEP None tb SEP I SEP 0.3 SEP SEP 85 SEP 90 SEP 80 SEP None tb SEP 0.1 SEP SEP 70 SEP 80 SEP 70 SEP None tb PPG 1013 SEP 0.3 SEP SEP 100 SEP 95 SEP 90 SEP None tb SEP 0.1 SEP SEP 60 SEP 70 SEP 50 SEP None tb SEP 0.03 SEP SEP 20 SEP 45 SEP 20 SEP None tb SEP Compound SEP 0.1 0.03 SEP 10 3 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP I SEP 0.1 0.1 SEP 1 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP SEP 0.1 0.3 SEP 1 3 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP PPG 1013 tb SEP 0.0 0.03 SEP 10 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP 0.3 0.1 SEP 3 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.3 0.3 SEP 1 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.9 0.03 SEP 30 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP 0.9 0.1 SEP 9 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.9 0.3 SEP 3 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb Untreated SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP None tb Test Example 7 Seeds of tall morningglory, common cocklebur, common lambsquarters, velvetleaf, wild sunflower and soybean were sowed in a vat 33 x 23 cm2, 11 cm H filled with field soil and the test plants were grown for 18 days in outdoors. A designed amount of the composition in the form of a wettable powder formulated as in Formulation Example 1 was diluted with water containing a spreading agent and sprayed to the foliage of the test plants at a spray volume of 5 liters per are by the aid of a small hand sprayer.After 20 days cultivation in outdoors, the growth controll ng percentage was observed. The results are shown in Table 6. At the time of treatment, the test plants were in general at 1 to 4 leaf stage and in 3 to 15 cm height, although the growing stage varied depending on each species. Table 6 EMI34.1 Compound SEP Dosage SEP Mixing SEP Growth SEP controlling SEP PhytoNo. SEP g a SEP ratio SEP percentage SEP SEP toxicity tb Tall SEP Velvet SEP Common SEP Common SEP Wild SEP Soybean tb morning SEP leaf SEP cocklebur SEP lambs SEP sunglory SEP quarters SEP flower tb Compound SEP 0.5 SEP SEP 83 SEP 100 SEP 95 SEP 100 SEP 95 SEP None tb I SEP 0.25 SEP SEP 80 SEP 98 SEP 85 SEP 93 SEP 80 SEP None tb Imazaquin SEP 1 SEP SEP 55 SEP 45 SEP 85 SEP 75 SEP 73 SEP None tb 0.5 SEP SEP 43 SEP 30 SEP 70 SEP 70 SEP 60 SEP None tb Compound SEP 0.25 0.5 SEP 1 2 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb I SEP 0.25 1 SEP 1 4 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb tb Imazaquin SEP 0.5 0.5 SEP 1 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb 0.5 1 SEP 1 2 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb