# Equipment apt to emit a sequence of magnetic pulses of substantially semicircular shape.

## Abstract
The equipment according to the invention consists of a solenoid combined with a Graetz bridge that in its turn may be fed by a transformer. The magnetic field emitted by the solenoid is of the pulsating type having substantially semicircular outline with peaks of 20 Gauss.

## Claims
Claims 1. An equipment apt to emit a sequence of magnetic pulses, characterized in that it consists of an oscillating circuit feeding a solenoid, said solenoid being controlled so as to generate a sequence of magnetic pulses of substantially semi circular shape. 2. An equipment according to the preceding claim, characte rized in that said oscillating circuit feeding the solenoid consists of a Graetz bridge that in its turn is fed by a transformer. 3. An equipment according to the preceding claims, characte rized in that a timing device apt to program the application treatment phases is provided. 4. An equipment according to the preceding claims, characte rized in that the signal emitted by the same shows a pulsation frequency of 100 Hz and a magnetic intensity from 0 to 20 Gauss. All substantially as described, illustrated and claimed and for the above specified purposes.

## Description
Description The present invention relates to an equipment apt to emit a sequence of magnetic pulses of substantially semicircular shape.Said equipment is employable where it is necessary to dis pose of a pulsating magnetic field in order to conclude industrial researches and or experimentations.Moreover it was noted that the magnetic flux generated by said apparatus favours the microcirculation of the blood both in the hairbulb and in the skin, causing a slowing down or a complete stop of the hair falling out.The equipment according to the present invention is apt to emit a sequence of magnetic pulses and consists of an oscil lating circuit feeding a solenoid controlled so as to gene rate a sequence of magnetic pulses of substantially semicircular shape.This and other aims of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art on perusing the following descrip tion and claims the invention is illustrated by way of a non limitative exemplification in the figures of the annexed sheet of drawing, wherein Fig. 1 shows a block diagram of the equipment according to the invention Fig. 2 is a structural arrangement Fig. 3 is a diagram showing the shape of the magnetic field, generated by the equipment itself, with passing of time.With reference to the above mentioned figures, the equipment according to the invention, generally shown at 1, consists of a transformer 2 feeding the first couple of poles 3 and 4 of a Graetz bridge 5. The remaining two poles 6 and 7, respectively positive and negative, are connected to the ends of a solenoid 8.Between the bridge 5 and the solenoid 8 a timing device 9 is provided apt to cadence or rate the activity intervals of the equipment.During the therapeutic type of use, the solenoid is being disposed around the head of the patient at the height of the forehead and of the nape of the neck so that the magne tic field generated by the solenoid itself may reactivate the microcirculation of the blood both in the hair bulb and in the skin, thus causing a slowing down or a complete stop of the hair falling out.Said magnetic field has a maximum intensity of 20 Gauss see figure 3 with a substantially semicircular outline and pulsation frequence of 100 Hz.