# NOVEL FLUORINE CONTAINING POLYAMINOAMIDES AND PREPARATION THEREOF

## Claims
Polyaminoamid mit einer durchschnittlichen Molmasse von 500 bis 50.000 und aus 1 bis p verschiedenen Einheiten mit der Formel gebildet

## Description
The present invention relates to novel fluorine containing polyaminoamides and preparation thereof. According to one aspect, the present invention provides a polyaminoamide having an average molecular weight of 500 to 50,000 and formed from 1 to p different units of formula wherein R For example, when p is 1 one , m represents 1 one and therefore the formula I includes one kind of the repeating unit of the formula When p is 2, m represents 1 and 2 and therefore the formula I includes two kinds of the repeating units of the formula In the formula I , the monovalent or divalent organic group may be an aliphatic, alicyclic or aromatic group. The aliphatic group may be a straight or branched group. The alicyclic or aromatic group may have at least one substituent. The polyaminoamide I may be prepared by reacting a 2,2,3,3 tetrafluorooxetane hereinafter referred to as tetrafluorooxetane of the formula with m kind s of diamine s of the formula wherein m is the same as defined above in a suitable solvent. The reaction is preferably carried out in the presence of a base or a basic salt to neutralize hydrogen fluoride liberated during the reaction. The solvent is preferably one stable to the base. Specific examples of the solvent are diethyl ether, tetrahydrofuran, methylene chloride, 1,1,2 trichloro 1,2,2 trifluoroethene, benzene, toluene and diethyleneglycol dimethyl ether. Specific examples of the base and the basic salt are hydroxides of alkali metals or alkaline earth metals e.g., sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, calcium hydroxide and salts of alkali metals with weak acids e.g., sodium carbonate, potassium carbonate . The reaction temperature is usually from a room temperature to a reflux temperature of the solvent, preferably up to a temperature generated by a reaction heat. The diamine III may be any one of known diamines. Since the reaction proceeds between the amino group of the diamine and tetrafluorooxetane, it is not affected by the kinds of the groups R With appropriate selection of R Tetrafluorooxetane is a known compound and may be prepared by reacting tetrafluoroethylene and paraformaldehde in anhydrous hydrogen fluoride. The fluorine containing polyaminoamide according to the present invention is a liquid or solid polymer having an average molecular weight of 500 to 50,000, particularly 1,000 to 30,000 and useful as an ion exchange resin, an acid accepter, a heavy metal absorbent and the like. A copolymer of the invention neutralized with hydrochloric acid can be used as a water absorbing polymer or an organic solvent absorbent. The present invention will be hereinafter explained further in detail by following examples. To a mixture of an aqueous solution of potassium hydroxide 0.42 mole 200 ml and a solution of hexamethylenediamine 0.21 mole in benzene 200 ml , a mixture of tetrafluorooxetane 19 ml, 0.21 mole and benzene 60 ml was dropwise added with stirring. After ceasing of the exothermic reaction, the reaction mixture was cooled to a room temperature to obtain the solid copolymer 22 g . In the same manner as in Example 1 but using a following diamine in place of hexamethylenediamine and, in Examples 7 and 8, using diethyl ether in place of benzene, the reaction was carried out to obtain a solid copolymer having following repeating units. In each of Examples 1 6, the same product is produced in the same manner as above but using potassium carbonate in place of potassium hydroxide. To an ice cooled solution of potassium carbonate 75 g, 0.54 mole in water 100 ml , a mixture of dichloromethane 100 ml and 1,1,2 trichloro 1,2,2 trifluoroethane 100 ml was added followed by the addition of tetrafluorooxetane 40 ml, 0.44 mole . As soon as stirring of the mixture was started, a solution of hexamethylenediamine 50 ml, 0.36 mole in water 100 ml was added with adjusting the addition rate by observing the refluxing state of the mixture. After the completion of the addition 10 15 minutes , stirring was further continued for 30 minutes. Then, additional tetrafluorooxetane 10 ml, 0.11 mole was added and heated to reflux for about 30 minutes. Thereafter, the solvents and the unreacted monomers were evaporated to obtain a granular product, which was washed with water, boiled in water each 600 ml twice, again washed with water and dried to obtain the copolymer 45 g . Yield, 60 . To a mixture of a solution of piperazine 23 g, 0.27 mole in tetrahydrofuran 200 ml and a solution of sodium hydroxide 12 g, 0.3 mole in water 100 ml , a solution of tetrafluorooxetane 34 g, 0.26 mole in diethyl ether 150 ml was dropwise added with stirring. After the completion of addition, stirring was further continued for about 2 hours. A precipitated product was filtered by a suction filter, washed with water and then with acetone and dried to obtain the copolymer. The structure of the copolymer was determined from IR and NMR analyses. The average molecular weight measured by the vapor pressure method was 8,200 corresponding to the average number of the repeating units of about 52 . In the same manner as in Example 10 but using p phenylenediamine in place of piperazine, the reaction was carried out to obtain the copolymer. A portion of the copolymer soluble in methanol had an average molecular weight of 715 corresponding to the average number of the repeating units of about 3 . In a 500 ml separable flask equipped with a dropping funnel, a stirrer and an iced condenser, a suspension of piperazine 5.68 g, 0.066 mole in a solution of m xylylenediamine 8.99 g, 0.66 mole in tetrahydrofuran 100 ml , and a solution of potassium hydroxide 14.82 g, 0.264 mole in water 100 ml were charged. To the ice cooled mixture in the flask, a solution of tetrafluorooxetane 17.5 g, 0.135 mole in diethyl ether 75 ml was dropwise added over about 1 hour with vigorous stirring. After the completion of addition, stirring was continued for 6 hours at a room temperature. After the reaction mixture was allowed to stand, the upper layer of the solution was discarded by decantation, and the lower layer containing an insoluble material was poured in water about 1 liter . A precipitated soft mass was washed with water several times to solidify it. The solid product was dried, powdered, washed with water three times and again dried to obtain the copolymer 19.3 g . Yield, 69 . Tg, about 60 C. Average molecular weight, about 4,100 measured by the equilibrium vapor pressure method in acetone at 35 C . From the ratio of integrated intensities of these absorptions, the molar ratio of piperazine and m xylylenediamine was found to be about 2 5. In a 500 ml separable flask equipped with a dropping funnel, a stirrer and an iced condenser, a solution of potassium carbonate 30 g, 0.22 mole in water 50 ml , dichloromethane 50 ml and 1,1,2 trichloro 1,2,2 trifluoroethane 50 ml were charged and cooled on an ice bath. Tetrafluorooxetane 20 ml, 0.22 mole was added, and then a solution of hexamethylenediamine 11.6 g, 0.10 mole and piperazine 8.6 g, 0.10 mole in water 50 ml was dropwise added with vigorous stirring. The addition rate was adjusted as high as possible but not so high as to cause vigorous refluxing. After the completion of addition, stirring was continued for 2 hours on an ice bath. Then, excess tetrafluorooxetane and the solvents were evaporated to give a granular product, which was washed with water and hot water twice and dried to obtain the copolymer 21.0 g . Yield, 50 . In a 1,000 ml separable flask equipped with a dropping funnel, a stirrer and an iced condenser, a solution of potassium carbonate 75 g, 0.54 mole in water 100 ml and a mixture of dichloromethane 100 ml and 1,1,2 trichloro 1,2,2 trifluoroethane 100 ml were charged successively and cooled on an ice bath. Tetrafluorooxetane 40 ml, 0.44 mole was added, and then a solution of hexamethylenediamine 8.17 g, 0.070 mole and piperazine 24.56 g, 0.285 mole in water 100 ml was dropwise added with vigorous stirring. The addition rate was adjusted as high as possible but not so high as to cause vigorous refluxing about 10 minutes . After the completion of addition, stirring was continued for 30 minutes. Then, additional tetrafluorooxetane 10 ml, 0.11 mole was added. The ice bath was replaced by a water bath, and the reaction mixture was heated to reflux for 30 minutes. Excess tetrafluorooxetane and the solvents were evaporated to give a granular product, which was washed with water several times and dried to obtain the copolymer 44.8 g . Yield, 69 . Average molecular weight, about 1,500 measured by the same method as in Example 12 in 2,2,3,3,3 pentafluoropropanol at 50 C . In a 500 ml separable flask equipped with a dropping funnel, a stirrer and an iced condenser, a suspension of hexamethylenediamine 1.54 g, 0.013 mole and piperazine 10.27 g, 0.119 mole in tetrahydrofuran 100 ml and a solution of potassium hydroxide 14.85 g, 0.265 mole in water 100 ml were charged and stirred on an ice bath. A solution of tetrafluorooxetane 17.22 ml, 0.132 mole in diethyl ether 75 ml was dropwise added over about 1 hour. After the completion of addition, the ice bath was removed, and the mixture was stirred overnight at a room temperature. A precipitated granular product was filtered, washed with water three times and dried to obtain the copolymer 9.66 g . Yield, 41 . Average molecular weight, about 13,000 measured by the same method as in Example 14 . In a 500 ml separable flask equipped with a dropping funnel, a stirrer and an iced condenser, a solution of potassium carbonate 37.5 g, 0.27 mole in water 50 ml and a mixture of dichloromethane 50 ml and 1,1,2 trichloro 1,2,2 trifluoroethane 50 ml were charged successively and cooled on an ice bath. Tetrafluorooxetane 20 ml, 0.22 mole was added, and then a solution of piperazine 7.7 g, 0.0894 mole was dropwise added over about 17 minutes with vigorous stirring. After continuing stirring for further 15 minutes, the mixture was further stirred at a room temperature for 1 hour. Then, excess tetrafluorooxetane and the solvents were evaporated to give a white soft mass, which was washed with water and dried. The dried product was powdered and washed with water five times to obtain the copolymer 26.5 g . Yield, 71 . Average molecular weight of a portion soluble in acetone, about 600 measured by the same method as in Example 12 . From the ratio of integrated intensities of these absorptions, the molar ratio of piperazine and m xylylenediamine was found to be about 3 5. In a 500 ml separable flask equipped with a dropping funnel, a stirrer and an iced condenser, a solution of potassium carbonate 14.9 g, 0.266 mole in water 100 ml , a solution of 3,3 dimethyl 4,4 diaminodicyclohexylmethane 15.7 g, 0.066 mole in tetrahydrofuran 100 ml and piperazine 5.7 g, 0.066 mole were charged. A solution of tetrafluorooxetane 17.2 ml, 0.132 mole in diethyl ether 75 ml was dropwise added over about 1 hour on an ice bath with vigorous stirring. After the completion of addition, the ice bath was removed and the mixture was stirred for 3 hours at a room temperature. The reaction mixture was then poured in water about 1 liter to precipitate a soft mass, which was washed with water to solidify it The solid product was dried, powdered, washed with water three times and again dried to obtain the copolymer 29.2 g . Yield, 80 . Tg, about 65 C and 110 C. Average molecular weight, about 6,600 measured by the same method as in Example 12 . From the ratio of integrated intensities of these absorptions, the molar ratio of piperazine and 3,3 dimethyl 4,4 diaminodicyclohexylmethane was found to be about 1 2. In a 500 ml separable flask equipped with a dropping funnel, a stirrer and an iced condenser, a solution of m xylylenediamine 9.0 g, 0.066 mole and 3,3 dimethyl 4,4 diaminodicyclohexylmethane 15.7 g, 0.066 mole in benzene 100 ml was charged followed by the addition of a solution of potassium carbonate 18.5 g, 0.132 mole in water 50 ml . Then, a solution of tetrafluorooxetane 17.2 g, 0.132 mole in benzene 50 ml was dropwise added on an ice bath with vigorous stirring. After the completion of addition, the ice bath was remove and stirring was continued for about 3 hours at a room temperature to precipitate a soft mass, which was washed with water, dried and powdered The powder was washed with water three times and air dried to obtain the copolymer 30.4 g . Yield, 83 . Tg, about 65 C. Average molecular weight, about 1,200 measured by the same method as in Example 12 . From the ratio of integrated intensities of these absorptions, the molar ratio of two diamines was found to be about 1 1 substantially in accordance with the charged amounts. In a 500 ml separable flask equipped with a dropping funnel, a stirrer and an iced condenser, a solution of potassium carbonate 30 g, 0.22 mole in water 50 ml and a solution of hexamethylenediamine 11.6 g, 0.10 mole in water 150 ml in which 3,3 dimethyl 4,4 diaminodicyclohexylmethane 23.8 g, 0.10 mole was dissolved were charged. Then, a solution of tetrafluorooxetane 20 ml, 0.22 mole in 1,1,2 trichloro 1,2,2 trifluoroethane 20 ml was dropwise added on an ice bath with vigorous stirring. After the completion of addition, the ice bath was replaced by a water bath, and stirring was continued for about 1 hour. Then, excess tetrafluorooxetane and the solvent were evaporated to give a granular product, which was washed with water and hot water twice and dried to obtain the copolymer 32.4 g . Yield, 55 . In a 500 ml separable flask equipped with a dropping funnel, a stirrer and an iced condenser, a solution of potassium carbonate 30 g, 0.22 mole in water 50 ml , dichloromethane 50 ml and 1,1,2 trichloro 1,2,2 trifluoroethane 50 ml were charged and cooled on an ice bath. Tetrafluorooxetane 20 ml, 0.22 mole was added, and then a solution of hexamethylenediamine 11.6 g, 0.10 mole in water 50 ml in which 3,3 diemthyl 4,4 diaminodicyclohexylmethane 23.8 g, 0.10 mole had been dissolved was dropwise added with vigorous stirring. The addition rate was adjusted as high as possible but not so high as to cause vigorous refluxing. After the completion of addition, the ice bath was replaced by a water bath, and stirring was continued for about 3 hours. Then, excess tetrafluorooxetane and the solvent were evaporated to give a product mass, which was washed with water, powdered, washed with water in a Soxhslet s extractor and dried to obtain the copolymer 40.7 g . Yield, 69 . In a 500 ml separable flask equipped with a dropping funnel, a stirrer and an iced condenser, a solution of potassium carbonate 30 g, 0.22 mole in water 40 ml , dichloromethane 40 ml and 1,1,2 trichloro 1,2,2 trifluoroethane 40 ml were charged and cooled on an ice bath. Tetrafluorooxetane 20 ml, 0.22 mole was added, and then a solution of hexamethylenediamine 8.3 g, 0.072 mole in water 40 ml in which m xylylenediamine 9.8 g, 0.072 mole was dissolved was dropwise added with vigorous stirring. The addition rate was adjusted as high as possible but not so high as to cause vigorous refluxing. After the completion of addition, stirring was continued for 30 minutes. Thereafter, additional tetrafluorooxetane 4 ml, 0.04 mole was added and heated to reflux on a water bath for 30 minutes. Then, excess tetrafluorooxetane and the solvents were evaporated to give a product mass, which was washed with water and hot water twice and dried to obtain the copolymer 22.4 g . Yield, 72 . In a 500 ml separable flask equipped with a dropping funnel, a stirrer and an iced condenser, a solution of potassium carbonate 30 g, 0.22 mole in water 50 ml , dichloromethane 50 ml and 1,1,2 trichloro 1,2,2 trifluoroethane 50 ml were charged and cooled on an ice bath. Tetrafluorooxetane 20 ml, 0.22 mole was added, and then a solution of hexamethylenediamine 11.6 g, 0.10 mole and tetramethylenediamine 8.8 g, 0.10 mole in water 50 ml was dropwise added with vigorous stirring. The addition rate was adjusted as high as possible but not so high as to cause vigorous refluxing. After the completion of addition, the ice bath was replaced by a water bath and stirring was continued for 4 hours with cooling with ice. Then, excess tetrafluorooxetane and the solvents were evaporated to give a product mass, which was washed with water and hot water twice and dried to obtain the copolymer 16.4 g . Yield, 39 . In a 500 ml separable flask equipped with a dropping funnel, a stirrer and an iced condenser, a solution of potassium carbonate 15 g, 0.11 mole in water 25 ml , dichloromethane 25 ml and 1,1,2 trichloro 1,2,2 trifluoroethane 25 ml were charged and cooled on an ice bath. Tetrafluorooxetane 20 ml, 0.22 mole was added, and then a solution of hexamethylenediamine 5.8 g, 0.05 mole and octamethylenediamine 7.2 g, 0.05 mole in water 25 ml was dissolved was dropwise added with vigorous stirring. The addition rate was adjusted as high as possible but not so high as to cause vigorous refluxing. After the completion of addition, the ice bath was replaced by a water bath and stirring was continued for 3 hours. Then, tetrafluorooxetane and the solvents were evaporated to give a product mass, which was washed with water and hot water twice and dried to obtain the copolymer 17.5 g . Yield, 72 . In a 500 ml separable flask equipped with a dropping funnel, a stirrer and an iced condenser, a solution of potassium carbonate 30 g, 0.22 mole in water 50 ml , dichloromethane 50 ml and 1,1,2 trichloro 1,2,2 trifluoroethane 50 ml were charged and cooled on an ice bath. Tetrafluorooxetane 20 ml, 0.22 mole was added, and then a solution of hexamethylenediamine 11.6 g, 0.10 mole in water 50 ml in which dodecamethylenediamine 20.3 g, 0.10 mole had been dissolved was dropwise added with vigorous stirring. The addition rate was adjusted as high as possible but not so high as to cause vigorous refluxing. After the completion of addition, the ice bath was replaced by a water bath and stirring was continued for 3 hours on an ice bath. Then, excess tetrafluorooxetane and the solvents were evaporated to give a product mass, which was washed with water and hot water twice and dried to obtain the copolymer 39.6 g . Yield, 72.5 . In a 500 ml separable flask equipped with a dropping funnel, a stirrer and an iced condenser, a solution of m xylylenediamine 6.0 g, 0.044 mole and 3,3 diemthyl 4,4 diaminodicyclohexylmethane 10.5 g, 0.044 mole in tetrahydrofuran 100 ml piperazine 3.8g, 0,044mole and a solution of calcium carbonate 14.9 g, 0.266 mole in water 100 ml were charged and cooled on an ice bath. A solution of tetrafluorooxetane 17.2 g, 0.132 mole in diethyl ether 75 ml was dropwise added over about 1 hour with vigorous stirring. The addition rate was adjusted as high as possible but not so high as to cause vigorous refluxing. After the completion of addition, the ice bath was removed and stirring was continued for about 6 hours at a room temperature. Then, the reaction mixture was poured in water about 1 liter to precipitate a pasty product, which was washed with water several times to solidify it. The solid product was powdered, washed with water three times and air dried to obtain the copolymer 31.75 g . Yield 93 . From the ratio of integrated intensities of these absorptions, the molar ratio of piperazine, m xylylenediamine and 3,3 dimethyl 4,4 diaminodicyclohexylmethane was found to be about 8 13 15.