# Moulding apparatus for record discs.

## Abstract
An injection moulding apparatus for use in producing centrally apertured video disc records 10 . The apparatus includes first and second mould halves 11, 17 recipro cally movable with respect to each other between a closed position, wherein the two mould halves are in proximity to each other and molten plastic material is injected into a planar, annular cavity defined therebetween to form the record disc, and an open position, wherein the two mould halves are spaced apart from each other and the moulded record disc can be removed. The moulding apparatus further includes first and second annular rings 41, 43 carried by the respective first and second mould halves and defining the outer perimeter of the cavity. The first mould half includes two plates 13, 15 reciprocally vable with respect to each other, with a plurality of com pression springs in the form of polyurethane blocks 105 interposed between the two plates, to bias the two annular rings into compressive engagement with each other when a central aperture is being punched in the moulded record disc.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A moulding apparatus for producing record discs, comprising first and second mould halves 11, 17 reciprocally movable with respect to each other between a closed position,wherein the parting line between the two mould halves is closed and an annular cavity 31 is formed therebetween, and wherein a molten material can be injected into the annular cavity to form a record disc 10 , and an open position, wherein the parting line is open and the moulded record disc can be removed and means for limiting the reciprocal movement of said first and second mould halves, to define said closed position, said means including a first annular ring 41 fixedly secured to said first mould half, said first ring having an outwardly facing abutment face 47 , and a second annular ring 43 fixedly secured to said second mould half, said second ring having an outwardlyfacing abutment face 49 for abutment with the abutment face of said first ring when the apparatus is in said closed position, the inner peripheries of said first and second rings defining the perimeter of said annular cavity, said first and second rings including means defining a plurality of vent ports 45 arranged in spaced relationship around their inner peripheries, to vent air from the annular cavity whenever molten material is being injected therein. 2. A moulding apparatus as defined in Claim 1, wherein said apparatus further includes a planar, disc shaped stamper 33 or 35 secured to one of said first and second mould halves, said stamper defining one side of the annular cavity and the inner periphery of the corresponding one of said first and second annular rings is defined by an inwardly projecting annular foot 53 to retain the outer periphery of said stamper. 3. A moulding apparatus as defined in Claim 2, wherein said inwardly projecting annular foot is sized to permit said stamper to expand radially, without substantial frictional resistance, when heated by the molten material injected into the cavity. 4. A moulding apparatus as defined in any precedingClaim, wherein the inner periphery of at least one of said first and second annular rings is beveled, whereby the moulded record disc is gripped by the ring when the apparatus is moved to the open position. 5. A moulding apparatus as defined in any preceding claim, wherein the vent ports are defined by radial grooves in the abutment face of at least one of said first and second annular rings. 6. A moulding apparatus as defined in Claim 5, wherein the cross sectional size of each groove increases a certain distance from the inner peripheries of the annular rings. 7. A moulding apparatus for producing record discs, said apparatus including first and second mould halves 11, 17 defining an annular cavity 31 therebetween into which molten material is injected to form a record disc 10 , each of said mould halves including a platen 55, 57 having means 59 for dissipating heat from the molten material injected into the cavity, said apparatus further including a disc shaped stamper 33 coupled to said first mould half platen and defining one side of the annular cavity, the stamper being coupled to said first mould half platen 55 by a plate 63 removably secured to said platen, said stamper being, in turn, removably mounted on the plate, whereby the stamper can be mounted at a remote, clean location, after which the plate, with the stamper mounted thereon, can be secured to the platen, thereby reducing substantially the possibility of inadvertently damaging the stamper while mounting it in the apparatus. 8. An apparatus as defined in Claim 7 including a second plate 65 removably secured to said second mould half platen 57 , one surface of said second plate being polished and defining a second side of the annular cavity. 9. A moulding apparatus having first and second mould halves 11,17 reciprocally movable with respect to each other between a closed position, wherein the two mould halves are in abutment, and an open position, wherein the two mould halves are spaced apart, and including alignment means 123,125 carried by said first and second mould halves for maintaining the two mould halves properly aligned with respect to each other when the apapratus is in the closed position, said alignment means not being subject to sliding friction when the mould halves are moved reciprocally between the closed and open positions. 10. An apparatus as defined in Claim 9, wherein said alignment means includes frusto conical posts 123 projecting outwardly from said first mould half, and frusto conical recesses 125 formed in the other mould half to conformably receive said posts. 11. An apparatus as defined in Claim 9 or Claim 10 further including means for maintaining a coarse alignment between said first and second mould halves, said means including guide pins 25 secured to one mould half and bushings 29 secured to the other mould half for slidably receiving said guide pins. 12. A moulding apparatus for producing a centrallyapertured record disc 10 , said apparatus including a first mould half 11 having a base plate 13 and a carrier plate 15 reciprocally movable with respect to each other, a second mould half 17 reciprocally movable relative to the first mould half, and a punch 89 the moulding apparatus being in a machine coupled to the base plate of the first mould half and to the second mould half and operating to move the apparatus successively from a closed position, wherein the parting line between the first and second mould halves is closed and the record disc is moulded and wherein the base plate and the carrier plate of the first mould, half are in abutment with each other, to a punch position, wherein the parting line remains closed to hold the moulded disc securely in place and wherein the base plate and the carrier plate of the first mould half are spaced apart from each other and the punch is actuated to produce a central aperture in the moulded disc, and, in turn, to an open position, wherein the parting line is open and the centrally apertured disc can be removed and comprising at least one compression spring 105 coupled between the base plate and the carrier plate of said first mould half, to urge the carrier plate into compressive engagement with the second mould half and thereby hold the partihg line closed when the apparatus is in the punch position. 13. An apparatus as defined in Claim 12, wherein said compression spring comprises at least one solid block 105 of a resilient material in a recess 107 formed in the base plate or the carrier plate of said first mould half.

## Description
APPARATUS FOR PRODUCING CENTRALLY APERTURED RECORD DISCS This invention relates generally to moulding apparatus for example injection moulding apparatus for producing centrally apertured record discs, such as video discs, and including first and second mould halves reciprocally movable between a closed position, wherein molten disc material is injected into an annular cavity to form a video disc, and an open position, wherein the parting line which passes through the cavity, is opened and the moulded video disc can be removed from the apparatus.The annular cavity can be defined by a pair of planar, disc shaped stampers secured to platens on the respective mould halves. In one form of moulding apparatus, the injected disc material has cured, the moulding machine begins moving the two mould halves from the closed position to the open position. A special latch lock mechanism in the apparatus holds the parting line initially closed, causing initial movement apart to occur between two plates on the first mould half.When the two plates have moved apart by a prescribed amount, the central aperture is punched in the moulded video disc, after which time the latch lock mechanism permits the parting line to open and the video disc to be extracted. Each stamper has a central opening and is secured at its inner periphery by a special centre clamp and at its outer periphery by a special outer ring clamp. When molten material is injected into the cavity, air is vented through a narrow gap between stamper for the second mould half and a radially inwardly projecting annular foot that is integral with the outer ring clamp for the first mould half.Although this arrangement is generally satisfactory in most situations, variations in stamper thicknesses can affect the size of the vent passage, thereby resulting in an undesired variation in the back pressure afforded by the venting air. Another drawback to that moulding apparatus arises from the fact that the stampers can be replaced only by a delicate insertion procedure at the site of the apparatus. Because of a difficulty normally encountered in accurately positioning the stampers relative to the clamps, they can sometimes be damaged by inadvertent abrasion.Still another problem arises from the fact that the apparatus includes two stampers, even though information to be molded into the disc is ordinarily carried on only one of them, the other being a blank dummy. The dummy stamper, like the stamper that carries information, is similarly subject to damage from abrasion and from dimpling, which is caused by the presence of minute foreign particles lodged between the stamper and its underlying platen. The two mold halves are aligned with respect to each other by means of a number of guide pins located on one mold half and engagable with correspond ing bushings located in the other mold half. Although generally effective in maintaining the two mold halves properly aligned, the guide pins and bushings can sometimes experience wear, to the extent that a slight misalignment of the two mold halves can occur. Still another drawback to the aforementioned molding apparatus arises from the use of the latch lock mechanism to keep the parting line closed until the central aperture has been punched in the molded disc. The mechanism includes a rotating latching member having a pin that is engageable with corresponding recesses formed in two arms secured to the respective mold halves. The mechanism must ordinarily be periodi cally serviced because of a tendency to wear, and, additionally, the mechanism is believed to be somewhat more complicated than is necessary to accomplish its purpose. It will be appreciatecl from the foregoing that there is a definite need for a simplified molding apparatus that can be used to produce video discs, without being too susceptible to wear and damage from abrasion, and without undue reliance on precise tolerances for proper operation. The present invention fulfills this need. The present invention is embodied in an improved moulding apparatus for use in a reciprocating injection moulding machine to produce centrally apertured record discs, such as video discs. The apparatus includes first and second mould halves that are reciprocally movable with respect to each other between a closed position, wherein molten material is injected into a disc shaped annular cavity to form a moulded disc, and an open position, wherein the parting line of the apparatus, which passes through the cavity, is opened and the disc can be extracted. At least one surface of the annular cavity is defined by a planar, disc shaped stamper mounted on one of the two mould halves. In accordance with one aspect of the present invention, the closed position of the apparatus is defined by an abutment between first and second annular rings carried on the first and second mould halves, respectively. The inner peripheries of the first and second rings define the outer perimeter of the annular cavity, and the rings include means defining a plurality of ports for venting air from the annular cavity whenever molten material is injected into it.Further, the sizes of the ports are not dependent on the relative thickness of the stamper, and a predetermined back pressure for the injected material can be maintained. lrore particularly, each of the annular rings includes a planar abutment face for engagement with other, and the vent ports are defined by a plurality of spaced radial channels formed in the abutment face of at least one of the two rings. Additionally, the inner peripheries of the two rings are of substantially equal radius, and are slightly beveled to insure that the molded disc will be retained by a selected one of the two mold halves when the parting line is opened. The inner periphery of the ring associated with the mold half on which the stamper is mounted is defined by an annular foot that projects radially inwardly to retain the outer periphery of the stamper.The foot is sized to permit the stamper to expand radially when heated by the molten material injected into the cavity. Each of the first and second mold halves includes a disc shaped platen having conventional cooling channels for carrying a coolant fluid to dissipate heat from the molten disc material. In accordance with another aspect of the invention, the stamper is secured not to its corresponding cooling platen, but rather, to a separate plate that is, in turn, removably secured to the platen. Thus, the delicate mounting of the stamper can be accomplished at a remote, clean location, after which the removable plate, with the stamper mounted on it, can be secured relatively easily to the cooling platen. The possibility of incurring damage to the stamper is thereby reduced significantly. Further, when only one side of the nolded disc is to carry information, the apparatus includes only a single stamper, and the opposite side of the annular cavity is defined by a polished, blank surface on the removable plate. This surface can be suitably hardened and thus is substantially less susceptible to damage from abrasion and dimpling than were the con ntional dummy stampers utilized in molding apparatus of the prior art. A coarse alignment of the two mold halves with respect to each other is achieved by means of a plurality of guide pins mounted on one of the mold halves and engageable with corresponding bushings nounted on the other mold half. In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, a more precise alignnent of the two mold halves is provided by special alignment means that is not subject to sliding friction when the two mold halves are moved reciprocally with respect to each other, whereby wearing of the alignment means is minimized. More particularly, the alignment means includes a plurality of frusto conical posts projecting outwardly from one of the two mold halves, to engage corresponding recesses formed in the other mold half.In one embodiment, both the posts and recesses are formed in individual elements that are threadedly received in special sockets formed in the respective iiold halves. To facilitate the punching of central apertures in the molded discs, the first mold half includes two reciprocally movable plates, one of which includes the cooling platen and the rertlovable plate, and the other of which is coupled to the reciprocally movable molding machine. In operation, after the molten disc material has been injected into the annular cavity and has cured, the molding machine begins to separate the two mold halves. The apparatus includes special means for keeping the parting line closed during initial movement apart of the moulding machine, causing separation of the two reciprocally movable plates on the first mould half to occur. After the two plates have moved apart a prescribed distance,the central aperture is punched in the moulded disc.Only after the aperture has been punched is the parting line permitted to open and the moulded disc, with the aperture properly formed in its centre, removed. In accordance with still another aspect of the present invention, the special means for keeping the parting line closed until the central aperture has been punched comprises a compression spring coupled between the two reciprocally movable plates on the first mould half. This biases the plate that includes the cooling platen and the removable plate in compressive engagement with the second mould half, until the two plates have separated sufficiently to permit punching of the aperture. Thereafter, further movement apart of the moulding machine will open the parting line and permit removal of the moulded disc. The spring can advantageously be comprised of a solid polyurethane material, and is thus essentially maintenance free. The invention may be carried into practice in various ways, and certain embodiments will now be described by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawings in which FIGURE 1 is a cross sectional view of a moulding apparatus in a closed position FIG. 2 is a cross sectional view of the apparatus of FIG. 1 after being moved to an intermedi ate position, wherein the central aperture is punched in the molded video disc, the view being taken substartially along the line 2 2 in FIG. 4 FIG. 3 is a partial cross sectional view of the apparatus of FIG. 1 after being moved to an open positidn FIC . 4 is a plan view of the first mold half of the apparatus, taken substantially along the line 4 4 in FIG. 1 FIG. 5 is a detailed cross sectional view of a portion of the means for naintaining the first arid second mold halves in alignment when the apparatus is in the closed position, the view being taken substantially along the line 5 5 in FIG. 4 FIG. 5 is an enlarged cross sectional view of a portion of the center clamp for securing a stamper to its underlying plate, lying within the circle 6 in FIG.3 FIG. 7 is an enlarged cross sectional view of a portion of the annular rings in FIG. 1 and FIG. 8 is an enlarged cross sectional view of a portion of the annular rings in an alternative embodiment of the invention that includes a polished dummy plate, rather than a dummy stamper. Referring now to the drawings, and particu larly to FIG. 1, there is shown a molding apparatus for use in comhinstion with a conventional injection molding machine not shown to produce a centrallyapertured video disc record 10. 1 The apparatus includes a first mold half 11, having a base plate 13 and a carrier plate 15, and a second mold half 17, also havinq a base plate 19 and a carrier plate 21, The two plates 13 and 15 of the first mold half 11 are reciprocably movable with respect to each other between a closed position FIG. 1 , wherein they are in abutment, and an intermediate or punch position FIG. 2 , wherein they are spaced apart from each other by a prescribed amount. The two plates 19 and 21 of the second mold half 17, on the other hand, are rigidly coupled to each other by means of a plurality of circumferentially spaced bolts, one of which is shown in phantom lines at 23. A coarse alignment between the two mold halves is achieved by means of a plurality of guide pins 25 FIG. 2 , which are fixed to the base plate 13 of the first mold half 11, and which are slidably received in bushings 27 and 29 in the carrier plates 15 and 21 of the first and second mold salves 11 and 17, respectively. The base plates 13 and 19 on the two mold halves 11 and 17, respectively, are secured to separate, reciprocating parts on the standard injection nolcline machine not shown . The molding machine operates to rove the two mold halves, in succession, from the closed position FIG. 1 , wherein they are in abutment and a molten elastic material is injected into an annular cavity 31 formed between them, to the intermediate or lunc. position FIC. 2 , wherein a central aperture is punched in the molded video disc 10, and, in turn, to the open position FIG. 3 , wherein the parting line between the two mold halves is opened and the molded disc can be removed. The annular cavity 31 between the two nold halves 11 and 17 is defined by first and second disc shaped stampers 33 and 35, which are removably coupled to the carrier plate 15 of the first nold half and the carrier plate 21 of the second mold half, respectively. The molten material is injected into the cavity through a nozz le 37, which is Åa part of the nolding machine, and a sprue bushing 39 mounted on the first mold half base plate 13. As shown in FIG. 1, the closed position of the molding apparatus is determined by a compressive abutment between a first annular ring 41 and a second annular ring t3, which are carried on the first and second mold halves 11 and 17, respectively. In accordance with one aspect of the present invention, the inner l eril. eries of the first and second rings define the outer perimeter of the annular cavity 31, and the rings include means defining a plurality of ports 5 for venting air from the annular cavity whenever molten plastic material is injected into it through the sprue bushing 39. The cross sectional size of each port is fixed, so a predetermined back pressure for regulating the flow of the injected material can be r.aintaine , regardless of variations in the relative thicknesses of ither of the two stampers 33 and 35.This 5 insures that the injected material will move radially outwardly within the cavity at a prescribed rate. More particularly, end a shown in rIGS. 4 and 7, the first annular ring 41 includes a planar abutment face 7 for engagement with a corresponding abutment face 49 on the second annular ring 43, and the vent ports 45 are defined by a plurality of spaced radial channels formed in the abutment face of at least one of the two rings, herein the first ring. Tiie cross sectional size of each vent E ort enlarges, a prescribed distance from the inner perirhery of C the rings, as indicated by reference llumeral 51.Additionally, the inner peripheries of the two annular rings ere of substantially equal radius, and are bevaled by approximately 10 , to insure that the v olded disc 10 ill re retained by a selected one of the two mold halves, herein the first nold half li, when the parting line of the apparatus is opened. As shown in FIG. 7, the telo annular rings 41 and 43 are substantially identical in shape, except for the vent ports 45 and the bevel of their inner peripheries. The inner periphery of each ring is defined by an annular foot 53 that projects radially inwardly to retain the outer pepipheral portion of the corresponding stamper 33 or 35. As indicated in exaggerated scale at 54, the feet are spaced slightly above their underlying stanpers, to permit the stampers to expand radially, without undue friction, when heated by the tn.olten plastic material injected into the cavity 31.The molten material is normally sufficiently viscous, especially after it has contacted the relatively cool stampers, that it does not travel any significant distance into any of the vent ports 45 or into the narrow space 54 between a ring and its under lying stamper. The two carrier plates 15 and 21 include disc shaped platens 55 and 57, respectively, having spiral cooling channels 59 for carrying a coolant fluid not shown , to dissipate heat from the molten plastic material injected into the annular cavity 31. In accordance with another aspect of the invention, the stampers 33 and 35 are secured not to their corresponding cooling platens 55 and 57, but, rather, to separate plates 63 and 65 that are, in turn, removably secured to the respective platens. Thus, the delicate procedure of mounting the stamper can be accomplished at a remote, clean location, after which the removable plate, with the stamper mounted thereon, can be secured relatively quickly and easily to its corresponding cooling platen. The likelihood of damaging the stamper by, for example, inadvertent abrasion is thereby reduced significantly. As shown in FIG. 1, the two stampers 33 and 35 are clamped to their corresponding removable plates 63 and 65 by means of special center clamps 67 and 69, respectively, which, in turn, are secured to the plates by means of a plurality of circumferentially spaced screws, as indicated at 71. The two clamps are substantially identical, so the structures of only one of the clamps, i.e., the clamp 69 on the second mold half 17, and of the corresponding stamper 35, will be described in detail. As shown in FIG. 6, the stamper 35 has an inner periphery that defines a central aperture, and the corresponding center clamp 69 for the stamper has a cylindrical post 73 that projects upwardly through the aperture, with an annular finger 75 projecting radially outwardly from the top of the post to conformably engage a corresponding beveled recess formed in the inner periphery of the stamper. More specifically, the inner periphery of the stamper 35 preferably includes a lower, vertical wall 77 for conforming engagement with the post portion 73 of the clamp 69, an upper wall 79 for conforming engagement with the outer periphery of the annular finger 75 of the clamp, and an intermediate beveled portion 81 for conforming engagement with a corresponding bevel on the underside of the finger 75.This special conforming arrangement permits the stamper to be quickly and easily mounted, and ensures substantial concentricity of the stamper relative to the clamp. The inner periphery of the stamper can be conveniently formed in the stamper using a conventional punching apparatus. As shown in FIG. 7, the radially inwardly projecting annular foot 53 in each of the annular rings 41 and 43 functions to retain the outer periphery of the corresponding stamper 33 or 35, ensuring that the stamper will remain planar and that the annular cavity 31 will have a prescribed thickness over its entire radius. Each ring is secured to its corresponding removable plate by means of a plurality of circumferentially spaced screws 83. With their particular center clamps and annular rings in place, the removable plates 63 and 65 can be secured relatively quickly to their corresponding cooling platens 55 and 57 by means of a plurality, of locking tabs 85 FIGS. 1 and 4 . In another embodiment of the present invention, the annular ring portion of which is shown in FIG. 8, the molding apparatus includes only a single stamper 33 , located on the first mold half 11 and the video discs 10 produced by the apparatus bear information on only one of their sides. In this embodiment, one side of the annular cavity 31 is defined by the stamper, and the other side is defined by the outer surface 87 of the removable plate 65 on the second, mold half 17 . This surface can by suitably hardened and polished, and is thus substantially less susceptible to damage from abrasion than were conventional dummy stampers utilized in prior molding apparatus for producing discs bearing information on only one side.Additionally, the possibility of dimpling due to foreign particles being lodged under such dummy stampers is completely avoided. The annular ring 43 . for the second mold half can be substantially cylindrical and need not include the radially inwardly projecting annular foot, which is ordinarily needed only to retain the outer periphery of a stamper. FIGS. 1, 2, and 3 depict the sequence of operation of the molding apparatus. FIG. 1 depicts the apparatus in the closed position, with the base plate 13 and the carrier plate 15 of the first mold half 11 in compressive abutment, and with the annular rings 41 and 43 of the respective first and second mold halves 11 and 17 also in compressive abutment. When in this closed position, the molten plastic disc material is injected into the annular cavity 31 between the two mold halves, to form the molded video disc 10. FIG. 2 depicts the apparatus after it has moved to the intermediate or punch position, with the two annular rings still in abutment, but with the base plate and carrier plate of the first mold half separated by a prescribed amount. A central aperture is punched in the molded video disc when the apparatus is in this intermediate position.FIG. 3 depicts the apparatus after it has moved to the open position, with the parting line between the two mold halves opened and the centrallyapertured molded disc in position to be removed. The molding apparatus is moved sequentially from the closed position FIG. 1 to the intermediate or punching position FIG. 2 , and, it , in turn, to the open position FIG. 3 by the molding machine not shown , which is coupled to, the apparatus through the base plates 13 and 19 of the first and second mold halves 11 and 17, respectively. The machine functions to move the two base plates away from each other and toward each other in a reciprocal fashion, each complete cycle resulting in the formation of a separate video disc 10. Initial movement apart of the two base plates 13 and 19 takes place only after the injected plastic material has cured. For reasons that will be discussed subsequently, this initial movement causes a separation of the base plate 13 and carrier plate 15 of the first mold half 11, while the parting line, which passes through the annular cavity 31, remains closed.This separation operates to move the sprue bushing 39, which is secured to the first mold half base plate 13, away from the molded disc 10, producing a gap therebetween. After these two plates have noved apart by a prescribed amount, a punch 89 is thrust upwardly through the molded disc 10 and into the rap between the disc and the sprue bushing by means of an air cylinder piston 91 that is coupled to the punch by means of a reciprocably movable punch plate assembly 93. The upwardly moving punch cooperates with a hardened die element 95 secured to the center clamp 67 of the first mold half 11 to form the central aperture in the molded disc. Upward novement of the punch plate assembly 93 and the punch 89 is limited by a plurality o f stroke limiter pins 9 that are secured to the plate assembly and that come into abutrilent with the underside of the base plate 13 of the first mold half 11 after the aperture has been punched. The portion of the disc 10 that is severed to form the aperture, along with an integral sprue ao, which is disposed within the sprue bushing 39, is held in place by means oL an undercut 101 formed in an annular recess 103 in the top surface of the punch. In accordance with another aspect of the invention, the parting line is held closed during the initial movement apart of the molding machine by means of a plurality of compression springs 105 interposed between the base plate 13 and the carrier plate 15 of the first mold half 11, whereby the carrier plate is biased in the direction of the carrier plate 21 of the second mold half 17. More particularly, the compression springs comprise solid blocks óf polyurethane jiaterial disposed in recesses 1C7 spaced circumferentially in the base plate 13. The springs are essentially maintenance free.The uncompressed thickness of each spring is approximately one inch, but under compressi,,on, with the base plate 13 and carrier plate 15 in abutment, the thickness diminishes to approxi mately 3 4 of an inch. The punching of the central aperture in the molded disc 10 occurs while the compression springs are still under sufficient compression to resist the force of the punch 1 9 and hold the parting line firmly closed. As shown in FIGS. 1 and 2, movement apart of the base plate 13 and the carrier plate 15 of the first mold half 11 is limited by means of a plurality of bolts, one of which is shown at 1C9. Each bolt has a shank portion 111 that extends through a throughbore 113 in the base plate to engage a threaded bore 115 in the carrier plate. 1 The head of the bolt is disposed in a countersunk portion 117 of the through bore, and after the molding machine has moved the base plate and carrier plate apart by a prescribed amount, the underside of the bolt head will come into abutment with the bottom of the countersunk portion, to limit further movement apart of the two plates.Thereafter, further movement of the molding machine will operate to open the parting line of the apparatus, as shown inFIG. 3, and permit removal of the molded video disc 10. After the apparatus has been moved into the open position FIG. 3 ., the sprue 99 that has been separated from the molded disc 10 is disengaged from the undercut 101 in the punch recess 103 by means of a sprue ejector pin 119, which is actuated by an air cylinder piston 121. As shown in FIG. 2, a coarse alignment oz the first and second mold halves 11 and 17 with respect to each other is achieved by means of the plurality of guide pins, one of which is shown at 25, mounted on the base plate 13 of the first mold half 11 and engageable in the bushings 27 and 29 located in the carrier plate 15 of the first mold half 11 and in the carrier plate 21 of the second mold half 17, respectively.This pin bushing arrangement is not generally capable of maintaining a precise alignment between the two mold halves for an extended period of usage, because the repeated reciprocal motion of the two mold halves ordinarily causes at least a limited degree of wear in the pins and bushings. In accordance witb still another aspect of the invention, the molding apparatus includes additional alignment means not subject to an substantial sliding friction during the reciprocal movement of the two mold halves 11 and 17. More particularly, as shown in FIGS. 4 and 5, this alignment means includes a plurality of frusto conical posts 123 projecting outwardly from the carrier plate 21 of the second mold half 17 to engage corresponding frusto conical recesses 125 formed in the carrier plate 15 of the first mold half 11. Thus, each post is in contact with its corresponding recess only when the parting line is closed. It bears note that only when the parting line is closed is a precise alignaent between the two mold halves of critical importance. In one embodiment, both the posts and the recesses are formed in individual elenents that are threadedly received in sockets 127 and 129 arran3ed in spaced circumferential relationship around the peripheries of the stampers 33 end 35 in the respective carrier plates 15 and 21. It will be appreciated from the foregoing description that the present invention provides an improved molding apparatus for use in combination with a conventional injection molding niachine to produce centrally apertured video disc records. The susceptibility of the apparatus to wear in certain critical elements and to damage of its stampers from abrasion is minimized, and the back pressure of the air being vented from the annular cavity of the apparatus when molten disc material is being injected therein is maintained at a prescribed level without undue reliance on components being machined to precise tolerances. Although the invention has been described in detail with reference to its presently preferred embodiments, it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that various modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly, it is not intended that the invention be limited, except as by the appended claims.