# VOLTAGE BOOSTING CIRCUITS

## Claims
Spannungsboosterschaltung aus einer Mehrzahl miteinander verbundener MOSFETs, mit

## Description
The present invention relates to a voltage boosting circuit according to the preamble of Claim 1. Such a voltage boosting circuit is known from The Patent Abstracts of Japan , Vol.6 Number 82 P 116 960 , May 20, 1982. Voltage boosting circuits are described in the prior art in various configurations for a variety of purposes. U.S. Patent 4,061,929 issued December 6, 1977 to Asano entitled CIRCUIT FOR OBTAINING DC VOLTAGE HIGHER THAN POWER SOURCE VOLTAGE describes a voltage boosting circuit which comprises a plurality of units connected in sequence and each composed of a condenser and a plurality of MOS FETs without any transformer or diode. U.S. Patent 4,029,973 issued June 14, 1977 to Kobayashi et al entitled VOLTAGE BOOSTER CIRCUIT USING LEVEL SHIFTER COMPOSED OF TWO COMPLEMENTARY MIS CIRCUITS discloses an improvement for a voltage booster circuit. The improvement lies in the use of MISFETs as switching means in a level converting circuit constructed in a complementary MIS semiconductor integrated circuit and therefore the voltage loss due to the conventional switching means can be prevented. In U.S. Patent 4,216,390 issued August 5, 1980 to Stewart entitled LEVEL SHIFT CIRCUIT a gating means, biased to pass current only during signal transitions, transfers binary signals from an input signal source to a latch circuit when the signal source and the latch are operated at similar voltages. Following data transfer, the operating voltage across the latch is increased. The voltage levels of the latch output signals are correspondingly increased but the state to which the latch was set is maintained and there is no steady state current conduction through the gating means. In U.S. Patent 4,045,691 issued August 30, 1977 to Asano, also entitled LEVEL SHIFT CIRCUIT, a level shift circuit is disclosed including an inverter connected to a first voltage supply source and supplied with an input pulse. A condenser and a directional switching element are connected in series between the output point of the inverter and one potential point of the first voltage supply source. The input of a first MOS FET is connected to the output of the inverter while the input of a second MOS FET is connected to a connection point between the condenser and the directional switching element. The source of the first MOS FET is connected to a common terminal of first and second voltage supply sources while the source of the second MOS FET is connected to the other terminal of the second voltage supply source. An output voltage is generated between a common connecting point of the the drains of the first and second MOS FETs and one potential point of the second voltage supply source. Circuits for generating pulsating potentials and voltage levels outside the range of, and or of greater magnitude than, the operating potential applied to the circuits are described in U.S. Patent 4,000,412 issued December 28, 1976 to Rosenthal et al entitled VOLTAGE AMPLITUDE MULTIPLYING CIRCUITS. Each circuit includes first and second transistors for applying a first voltage to one plate of a capacitor and a second voltage to the other plate of the capacitor, during one time interval. During a subsequent time interval, the first and second transistors are turned off and a third transistor applies the second potential to the one plate of the capacitor. The change in the potential at the one plate of the capacitor is coupled to the other plate of the capacitor at which is produced an output potential outside the range of the first and second voltages. The potential difference between the first voltage and the output potential difference is greater in amplitude than the potential difference between the first and second voltages. The circuit may also include means alternately applying the first voltage and then the output potential to an output point for generating pulsating signals of greater amplitude than the magnitude of the applied potential. The outputs of two or more circuits may be combined to produce direct current d.c. levels. Also included are circuits which operate from a pulsating source of operating potential. Other references in the general field of voltage or level boosting include the following U.S. Patents An object of the present invention is to provide a semiconductor memory clock circuit for boosting the word line voltage. Another object of the present invention is to provide a semiconductor memory clock circuit wherein the word line voltage is boosted above the supply voltage value. A further object of the present invention is to provide a semiconductor memory clock circuit using a single supply voltage. Still another object of the present invention is to provide a semiconductor memory CMOS clock circuit wherein no junction is forward biased. According to the present invention, there is now proposed a a charge discharge circuit including a plurality of MOSFETs for producing a voltage change in the output from a first voltage level to a second voltage level in response to a first clock signal, an output signal boost circuit including a plurality of MOSFETs for generating an output boost signal in response to a second clock signal, first transistor means for connecting the output boost signal to the output thereby changing the output from the second level to a third level characterised in that the charge discharge circuit comprises first and second MOS transistors of a first and a second conductivity type, respectively, responsive to the first clock signal and a third MOS transistor of the first conductivity type connected between the first and second transistors and responsive to a threshold signal which is generated by a threshold voltage circuit including a plurality of MOSFETS in response to a third clock signal which is arranged so that the third MOS transistor is turned off when the output changes from the second voltage level to the third voltage level, the output being connected to the common node of the first and third transistor. Preferably, the first transistor and the third transistor means are are respectively first and second PMOS transistors, and the second transistor is a first NMOS transistor. The advantage with this arrangement is that the third transistor means avoids overshoot and undershoot in the drain voltages of the MOSFETs in the circuit. Such conditions would otherwise arise through the MOSFET junction becoming forward biased when the output is boosted to the third voltage level. FIGS. 3, 4, 5 and 6 illustrate waveforms useful in explaining the operation of the circuit of FIG. 1. In most commercial NMOS DRAM s, the word line voltage is boosted above supply voltage VDD which may be, for example, 5 volts so that full signal can be stored in or read from the storage cell without threshold voltage loss. For CMOS DRAM s, PMOS transistors made in the n well can be used as the transfer devices in the one transistor DRAM cell. Thus, the selected word line level changes from 5 volts to 0 volt and to negative voltage when the word line signal is boosted. N well CMOS technology is assumed here where the n well is biased at 5 volts and the p substrate is grounded. Similar principles used here can be easily adopted for p well CMOS or other CMOS technologies. In a CMOS technology with supply voltage in the order of only 5 volts, however, a boosting word line circuit is difficult to design. For example, a boosting level in the order of 2 volts cannot be applied to the NMOS source or drain, because it will forward bias the N P junctions to cause carrier injection, thus inducing malfunction of the dynamic circuits or even latch up. Similarly PMOS sources and drains cannot tolerate a voltage much greater than 0.6 volts above VDD, however, undershoot and overshoot can easily occur in a boosting circuit. On the other hand, as the chip density increases up to one megabits and or the supply voltage scales down below the standard 5 volts, the boosting word line circuit is very important because the storage capacitor area has to be limited below a certain value to maintain reasonable chip size and the threshold loss cannot be tolerated. FIG. 1 illustrates a CMOS boosting word line clock circuit, which can be used for CMOS DRAM s with a single supply voltage with no junction forward biased. In FIG. 1, The circuit functions as follows. Before activation as shown in FIG. 3, clock signals What has been described is an improved, novel CMOS boosting word line clock circuit which can be used for CMOS technology with a single supply voltage. The possible junction forward biasing is completely eliminated by putting the signal in between either two NMOS or two PMOS transistors. A self boosting scheme to fully overdrive the PMOS pass gate is incorporated in the circuit, which can be also used for other similar applications. A special configuration PMOS capacitor, which can sustain voltage higher than VDD at its source and drain, is included for any boosting applications.