# Tractor trailer braking systems with reserve spring braking and parking.

## Abstract
A full power closed centre hydraulic braking system for automotive vehicle trailer combinations having service and em ergency line connections between the towing vehicle and the trailer, each with its associated return line 16 . The emergency line provides a constant supply of hydraulic fluid from the tow ing vehicle through an emergency relay valve 18 on the trailer to a trailer mounted storage unit or accumulator 62 , and is adapted to deliver pressure fluid from the accumulator 62 to the trailer service brake actuators 82 when the service line is activated by a control on the vehicle or in the event of a loss of pressure on the service line. There are spring brake actuators 81 on the trailer which are connected to the accumulator 62 such that in the event of a loss of pressure at the accumulator the spring brakes are applied to provide secondary braking.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A full power closed centre hydraulic rraking system for a vehicle trailer combination, comprising service and emergency line connections Detween Lhe vehicle and the trailer each with its associated return line, the emergency line providing a constant supply of hydraulic fluid from the vehicle through an emergency relay valve on the trailer, to a trailer mounted storage unit or acc mulator, the emergency relay valve being adapted to deliver pressure fluid from the accumulator to the trailer service brake actuators wheel the service line is activated by a control on the vehicle cr in the event of a loss of pressure on the service line, wherein the system further comprises trailer spring brake actuators connected to the accumulator such that in tl e event of a loss of pressure at the accumulator the spring brakes are applied. 2. A braking system according to claim 1 wherein the acc nn ulater is connected to the spring brake actuators via a park valve which is open except when set to a park Dosition so isolating the accumulator a d venting the spring brake actuators to the return line. 3. A braking system according to claIm 2 wherein the relay emergency valve is connected to the energency line via a changeover valve also connected to a manoe.l.vring valve and Diased so as to communicate between emergency relay valve and the manoeuvring valve in the absence of emergency line pressure, themanoeuvring valve being operable to direct accumulator pressure via the open park valve and the changeover valve to the relay emergency valve, in response to which the relay emergency valve acts to exhaust the service brake actuators so releasing the service brakes.

## Description
TRACTOR TRAILER BRAKING SYSTEMS WITH RESERVE SPRING BRAKING AND PARKING This invention relates to full power closed centre hydraulic braking systems for automotive vehicle trailer combinations and especialy tractor semi trailer combinations. One kind of system which has been proposed includes both service and emergency line connections between the tractor and the trailer, each with its associated return line, the emergency line providing a constant supply of hydraulic fluid from the vehicle through a relay valve on the trailer to a trailer mounted storage unit or accumulator, and a service line which when activated by the foot or hand control on the tractor, actuates the relay to deliver pressure fluid fòm trse accumulator to the trailer service brakes. Although full power hydraulic braking systems have been used for some considerable tlrne on rigid vehicle, both private and commercial, title system has not beer widely used for articulated co. .binations. This is for several reasons not least among which is the problem or connecting and disconnecting the two systems, the inclusion of return lines which are not required on air systems and the ability of the system to tane care of internal leaKs without pressurising the return lines and thence the coupling interface on the trailer when it is disconnected from the tractor.The greatest inhibiting factor, however, which is fundamental to all hydraulic systems is that the reservoir fluid volume is limited. Air systems on the other hand have unlimited atmosphere to draw on Sar.d for example, a single energy source compressor can pump against multi system protection valves thus ensuring continual charging of an unfailed circuit This overflow technique cannot b applied to hydraulics and a serious system leak on the trailer could empty the tractor fluid reservoir in a few minutes, leaving only limited stored energy for braking.However, in order to overcome this deficiency the tractor system could be fitted with a triple element pump, that is one element for each of the tractor axles or circuits and the third element for the trailer. Th.is invention arose during design of a trailer system which can be coupled to such a tractor system or to a conventional power system embodying a dual storage reservo r, dual hyd an ic pump, dual brake valve which applies the front and rear brakes of the tractor as separate circuits and a pressure storage circuit for the parking brake which may be energised via a non return valve by the pump element.supplying the front axle circuit, whilst the rear axle brakE circuit together with pressure storage for the relay valves controlling the trailer brake can be energised by second element of the pump. When the tractor brakes are applied, trigger lines from the two axle circuits are simultaneously pressurised to operate a dual relay valve in a modulated manner to operate the trailer brakes. In the case of an accidental parting of any tractor and trailer in service the trailer brakes must be applied automatically, this being triggered by either the disruption of the emergency supply line between tractor and trailer or by a disconnection of the emergency coupling. It is also desirable for the tractor system to be arranged such that a failure in the parking circuit energy source destroys pressure in the trailer emergency line thus applying the trailer brakes. It is an object of this invention to provide residual braking in full power hydraulic braking systems for vehicle trailer combinations. According to this invention we propose a full power closed ccntre hydraulic braking system for a vehicle trailer combination, comprising service and emergency live connections between the towing vehicle and the trailer each wit1i its associated return line, the emergency line providing a constant supply of hydraulic fluid from the towing vehicle through an emergzn relay valve on the trailer, to a trailer mounted storage unit or accumulatr, the emergency relay valve being adapted te deliver pressure fluid fro the accumulator to the trailer service brake actuators when the service Ile is activated by a control on the vehicle or in the event of a loss of pressure on the service line, whereir the system further comprises trailer spring brake actuators connected to the accumulator such that in the event of a loss of pressure at the accumulator the spring brakes are applied. Emergendy braking, in the event of loss of service line pressure, is achieved in the conventional manner via the accumulator and emergency relay valve. In addition, however, secondary braking is available following loss of accumulator pressure, by means of the spring brake activators which are also used for parking so overcoming the problems associated with purely hydraulic or pneumatic systems in which it is necessary to park on the hydraulic fluid or air pressure from the towing vehicle. Conveniently, the accumulator pressure is connected to the spring brake actuators via a park valve which is open except when set to a park position so isolating the accumulator and venting the spring brake actuators to the return line. An embodiment of this invention will now be described by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings of which Figure 1 is a diagram of a trailer braking system includi z a reserve spring brake circuit and Figure 2 is a cross section of a relay emergency valve shown in Figure 1. The trailer braking system shown in Figure 1 is connected to the trailer braking system by a coupling 10 which may be of the kind described in our co pending application and includes a Service line 12, an emergency line 14 and associated return lines 6. Connected via a change over valve 17 biased in the direction indicated, to the Emergency line 14, is an emergency relay valve 18 Figure 2 having in the inlet port 20 a spring loaded ball type non return valve 22 and a by pass drilling 24 leading to an annular chamber 26 defined between the valve housing 28 and the shoulder 30 of a floating spool 32 which is biased upwardly by a control spring 34. The service line is connected via load sensing valve 40 to the contrcl port and piston 42 of the relay emergency valve. Delivery port 44 as well as supplying pressure to the actuators is also connected to port 46 to supply a balance feed back pressure to the plunger 42, to control firstly the movement of the steel ball exhaust valve in relation to it.s conical seat at the upper end of valve plunger 56 and secondly the movement of plunger 56 relative to valve sleeve 32. At its lower end, the. plunger 56 has conical valve portion which seats on an upwardly converging eDnical seat foeted internally of the spool just above drillings 58 cGmmunicating with the delivery port 44 via an annular groove 60. As shown in Figure 2, an accumulatoi 62 is connected to the emergency line pressure through the non return Valve 22 and vi.a an external groove 64 around the spool 32, the groove 64 being linked by drlllings 66 with a chamber 68 d.f ined by a recess in tWle plunger 56. With the vehicles coupled and the tractor engine running both tractor and trailer systems are charged simultaneously. The trailer accumulator is charged by the emergency line via the changeover valve 17 and relay emergency Valve 18. During initial. charging the relay emergency valve 18 .olmects the accumulator 62 to the service brake actuators 82 thus applying the trailer brakes.With the trailer PARK valve in the park position the SpringBrake chambers 81 are exhausted to atmosphere and the spring brakes are applied. Full compounding of Service Actuator and Spring brake effort is avoided by the action of service pressure on. the exposed surface of the spring brake piston. When a predetermined pressure has been reached usually co incident with the low pressure warning switch setting pressure the spool valve or sleeve 32 is moved upwards to stop position on the body, taking the valve 18 out of the emergency mode by closing off the accumulator connection to the actuators delivery port 44 and allowing actuator fluid to exhaust through valve 48 to the expansion chamber 70 and service return line 16. The accumulator 62 continues to be charged via the emergency line 14 until pump cut out pressure is reached on the tractor. When the driver applies the tractor foot brake the trailer service control line 12 is energized in the conventional way and the relay emergency valve 18 operates in its simple relay valve mode dispensing fluid from the accumulator 62 on the trailer to operate the service actuators 82 on both axle I and axle II. Autouiatic Braking is effected in the event of trailer breakaway when either the emergency line 14 between tractor and trailer is disrupted or when tibia emergency coupling 10 is disconnctea. When pressure is dumped from the emergency line 14 in the relay emergency valve spring 34 moves the valve spool into the emergency mode thus connecting the accumulator 62 to the service brake actuators 82 and applying the trailer brakes. Should the trailer accumulator 62 inadvertently lose its pressure the spring brakes will automatically apply. Prior to uncoupling the trailer the park valve 83 is moved to the Park position isolating the accumulator 62 and venting the spring brake chambers to the return line 16 thus applying the spring brakes. This actuation can be carried out with the trailer coupled and uncoupled providing the trailer accumulator 62 is charged. Ma noeutring of a disconnected, unpacked trailer is achieved by diverting by means of a manoeuvring valve 84 pressure from the accumulator 62 to the relay emergency valve chamber 63 via a changeover valve 17 to take the relay emergency valve out of emergency and exhaust the service brake actuators to the expansion chamber 70 thus releasing the brakes. Manual effort must be maintained on this valve operating lever 86 to hold off the brakes. When .he valve lever 86 is released the valve 84 automatically returns to the OFF position thus allowing the brakes to be re applied via the relay emergency valve 18. Operation of the part valve 83 puts the spring brakes in the parking mode but compounding of spring effort is cancelled by service pressure acting on the exposed face of the spring brake piston. Should accumulator pressure fail, spring effort automatically takes over to keep the brakes applied.