# Castor support shaft.

## Abstract
A support shaft for supporting any structure or mechani cal element which has a flange 11 . The shaft 10 formed by compression moulding in the axial direction so as to have an annular projection 12 or recess located at the base of the shaft on the flange. The metal flow structure in the shaft is comparatively smooth and favourable, and the base of the shaft on the flange is not weakened by sharp bending in the metal structure as a result of compressing and moulding the flange.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A support shaft comprising a shaft 10, 20, 60, 80 having a flange 11, 21, 61, 81 at the base thereof, which support shaft has been compressed and moulded in the axial direction using a mould and is characterized in that the flange 11, 21, 61, 81 is provided with an annular projection 12, 22, 62 or recess 82 at the base of the shaft 10, 20, 60, 80 . 2. A support shaft according to claim 1 in which an annular projection 62 is provided on the flange 61 and characterized in that the diameter of the projection 62 gradually decreases with distance from the flange 61 . 3. A support shaft for use as a castor supporting shaft and comprising a shaft 20, 60 having a flange 21, 61 at the base thereof, which support shaft has been formed by compression moulding and is characterized in that an annular projection 22, 62 is formed integrally with the flange 22, 62 at the base of the shaft 20, 60 on the flange 21, 61 . 4. A support shaft for use as a castor supporting shaft and comprising a shaft 80 having a flange 81 at the base thereof, which support shaft has been formed by compression moulding and is characterized in that an annular recess 82 is formed at the base of the shaft 80 in the flange 81 . 5. A support shaft for use as a castor supporting shaft and comprising a shaft 60 having a flange 61 at the base thereof, which support shaft is characterized in that an annular projection 62 is formed at the base of the shaft 60 on the flange 61 , the diameter of which annular projection 62 gradually decreasing with distance from the flange 61 . 6. A support shaft substantially as herein described and as illustrated in Figures 1, 2 and 3 5, 6 and 9 and 10, or 11, 12 and 13 of the accompanying drawings.

## Description
A.SUPPRT SHAFT The present invention relates to a support shaft for supporting any structure or mechanical element which is formed with a flange by compression moulding in the axial direction. More particularly the invention relates to support shafts such as, for example, a bolt or a castor supporting shaft which is formed with a flange by compression moulding. In conventional support shaft such as, for example, a bolt consists of a flange and a threaded rod, and the flange is connected directly to the threaded rod.A castor supporting shaft also consists of a flange and rod which are collected directly to each other in the same manner. Therefore, in a case in which such a supporting shaft is formed by compression moulding in the axial direction, the metal flow structure will be excessively bent near the base of the rod at the flange and will be discontinuous in this portion. Thus, the shaft is liable to break at this portion and hence cannot be used as it is. Therefore, in order to reinforce such a weakened portion which is liable to break, an additional normalizing step is required. However, when such a portion is normalized, although, breakage of the flange will be prevented, the entire shaft will become so soft as to be liable to bend. It has been surprisingly found that a support shaft can be formed having a shaft and flange formed simultaneously by compression and moulding with a mould in the axial direction, such that base of the shaft, the volume pressed out of the material is increased forming an annular projection on the flange, thereby eliminating sharp bending or discontinuity in the metal flow structure from being formed in the flange and forming a strong support shaft which has various uses. Further, it has been surprisingly found that a support shaft compressed and moulded in the axial direction to have a shaft and flange wherein the flange is simultaneously compressed and moulded on the base of the shaft so as to provide an annular recess, can have the sharp bend in the flow lines of the metal structure at the base of the shaft reduced so as to be as small as possible and forced inwards of the shaft, and has a metal structure which is not weakened in the surface layer, and which is strong and has various uses. According to the present invention there is provided a support shaft comprising a shaft 10, 20, 60, 80 having a flange 11, 21, 61, 81 at the base thereof, which support shaft has been compressed and moulded in the axial direction using a mould and is characterized in that the flange 11, 21, 61, 81 is provided with an annular projection 12, 22, 62 or recess 82 at the base of the shaft 10, 20, 60, 80 . Thus, in the present invention, a support shaft is formed in a similar manner to the prior art by compression moulding in the axial direction but an annular projection or recess is simultaneously formed at the base of the rod on the flange in the compressing step and therefore the flow structure of the material forming the shaft will continue comparatively gradually and favourably and the base of the shaft at the flange will not be weakened by a sharp bends in the metal structure. An embodiment of the present invention to provides a strong bolt having an annular projection or recess formed at the base of the rod on the flange simultaneously with the compression moulding of the flange. A further embodiment of the present invention provides a strong castor supporting shaft having an annular projection or recess formed at the base of the shaft on the flange simultaneously with the compression moulding of the flange. Figure 1 is a view of a bolt which is an embodiment according to the present invention. Figure 2 illustrates a process of compressing and moulding the embodiment of Figure 1. Figure 5 is a vertically sectioned view of the embodiment of Figure 1 illustrating the flow of metal in the structure. Figure 4 is a vertically sectioned view of a conventional bolt formed by compression moulding, illustrat ing the flow in the metal structure. Figure 5 is a vertically section view of a castor having a support shaft which is a second embodiment according to the present invention. Figure 6 is a vertically sectioned view of the castor supporting shaft shown in Figure 5, illustrating the flow of metal in the structure. Figure 7 is a vertically sectioned view of a conventional compressed and moulded castor supporting shaft, the flow in the metal structure. Figure 8 is a vertically sectioned view showing another type of castor using the same support shaft as is shown in Figure 6. Figure 9 is a vertically sectioned view of a castor using a support shaft of another embodiment of the invention Figure 10 is a vertically sectioned view of the support shaft of the castor in Figure 9, illustrating the flow of the metal structure Figure 11 is a vertically sectioned view of a castor using a support shaft of a further embodiment of the invention Figure 12 is a vertically sectioned view showing a compressing and moulding process for a castor support shaft. Figure 13 is a vertically sectioned view of the castor supporting shaft in Figure 12, illustrating the flow in the metal structure. A bolt 10 haying a projection 12 as shown in Figure 1. This bolt 10 comprises a flange 11 having a threaded rod 13 integral therewith. The annular projection 12 is formed between the threaded rod 13 and flange 11. As shown in Figure 2, this bolt 10 is formed simultaneously with the projection by applying pressure in the direction indicated by the arrow to a cold rolled carbon steel rod relative to a mould D provided with an annular recess 14 which corresponds to the projection 12 of the bolt 10.When the section of the thus formed bolt 10 is oxidized and the flow line a of the metal structure is observed, as shown in Figure 3, it will be found that the flow line a is not unreasonably bent but flows favourably and the metal structure has no weakened portion. The conventional bolt 110 shown in Figure 4 is formed by compression and moulded is in a similar manner without a projection. It will be found that the flow line b is sharply bent in the base of the shaft on the flange and the metal structure is discontinuous substantially horizontally in a portion 115.Therefore, the bolt 110 is weakened at the base of the rod on the flange 111, and likely to break in the boundary between the base and the flange and must therefore be annealed. In Figure 5 showing an example of the use of the support shaft of the present invention as a castor supporting shaft. A castor 30 supported by a support shaft 20 is shown. An upper dish 31, balls 32, rotary frame 34 having a wheel 33, balls 35 and lower dish 36 are inserted in and rotate below a flange 21 of the support shaft 20 and are fitted between the flange 21 of the support shaft and the calked portion at the lower end of the support shaft 20. A threaded rod 23 in the upper portion of the support shaft is provided for securing the castor to an object to be carried. The support shaft 20 is formed by compression moulding in the same manner as explained above in connection with the bolt and has an annular projection 22 at the base of the rod on the flange 21 as shown in Figure 6.The flow line a of the metal structure of this supporting shaft 20 favourably describes a comparatively gentle curve as shown in Figure 6. On the other hand, in a conventional castor supporting shaft 120 having no annular projection at the base of the shaft on a flange 121, as shown in Figure 7, the flow line b of the metal structure is sharply bent near the base 127 on the flange 121 and the metal flow structure is discontinuous and weakened in this portion. Such portions 127 in which the metal flow structure is discontinuous extend in a straight line from the end to end of the diameter of the shaft 120. In order to compare the strengths of a support shaft made of rimmed steel having a projection 22 of diameter of 12.5 mm. and a support shaft of the same material having no projection, each supporting shaft was fixed at both ends and a force in a direction perpendicular to the shaft was applied just above the flange. The former reached the elastic limit at about 2300 kg. while the latter reached it at about 1300 kg. It is evident from this that the strength of the support shaft 20 having the projection 22 is relatively higher. Figure 8 shows another castor 40 having the same support shaft 20 as is shown in Figure 6. A cover 41, upper dish 42, balls 43, ball bearing 44, rotary frame 46 having a wheel 45, ball bearing 47, balls 48 and lower dish 49 are located in turn below the support shaft 20 of the castor 40 and are fitted between the flange 21 and a nut 50 screwed to the lower end of the support shaft 20. The upper portion of the supporting shaft 20 to be fitted to the lower portion of an object to be carried is covered with a cover tube 51 made of rubber or elastic resin. Figure 9 shows a castor 70 of the same struc ture as that shown in Figure 8 including an alternative support shaft 60. This support shaft 60 is made of a light alloy and is so formed that an annular projection 62 is located on a flange 61 at the base of the shaft whose gradually reduces in diameter gradually decreases upwards away from the flange 61 as shown in Figure 10. As shown in Figure 10, the metal structure does not bend unreasonably but describes a continuous, comparatively gradual curve a to provide a high strength. When the supporting shaft 60 having a projection of diameter 12.2 mm. and a supporting shaft of the same material and diameter having no projection were tested to compare their strengths by the method mentioned above, the former reached the elastic limit at 1550 kg. but the latter reached it at 1400 kg. Figure 11 shows a castor 90 having an alternative supporting shaft 80 and a flange 81, the structure of this castor 90 being otherwise the same as of the above explained castor 30 in Figure 5. As shown in Figures 11 and 13, an annular recess 82 arcuate in the vertical section is formed at the base of the shaft on the flange 81. As shown in Figure 12, this recess 82 is formed simultaneously with the flange 81 by compressing a rod made of rimmed steel in the direction indicated by the arrow relative to a mould D having a corresponding annular projection 84. As. shown in Figure 13, the metal structure of the thus formed support shaft 80, the portion having a sharp bend is comparatively small and does not lie in the surface layer near the base of the shaft on the flange but is forced inwards. Therefore, a comparatively high strength is obtained. when a support shaft 80 having an annular recess of diameter 12.7 mum. and a support shaft of the same diameter and material having no recess were each fixed at both sides and a force of about 2700 kg. was applied in the direction perpendicular to the shaft just Wbove the flange so as to bend it in order to compare the strengths of both shafts, the latter cracked in the base on the flange but the former did not.