# Silver halide color photographic material.

## Abstract
A silver halide color photographic material is disclosed, said material containing a magenta color imageforming coupler represented by the following formula I and a compound represented by the following formula II

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A silver halide color photographic material containing a magenta color image forming coupler of formula I EMI152.1 wherein Z is a group of nonmetallic atoms forming a nitrogencontaining heterocyclic ring, optionally bearing a substituent X is a hydrogen atom or a substituent susceptible to displacement upon reaction with the oxidation product of a color developing agent and R is a hydrogen atom or a substituent and a compound of formula II EMI152.2 wherein each of R1 and R3 is a hydrogen atom, a halogen atom, an alkyl group, an alkenyl group, an alkoxy group, a hydroxy group, an aryl group, an aryloxy group, an acyl group, an acylamino group, an acyloxy group, a sulfonamido group, a cycloalkyl group or an alkoxycarbonyl group and R2 is a hydrogen atom, a halogen atom, an alkyl group, an alkenyl group, a hydroxy group, an aryl group, an acyl group, an acylamino group, an acyloxy group, a sulfonamide group, a cycloalkyl group or an alkoxycarbonyl group or R2 and R3 together complete a 5 or 6 membered hydrocarbon ring and Y is the group of atoms necessary to form an indian ring 2. A silver halide color photographic material according to claim 1, wherein the magenta color image forming coupler bears a substituent of formula Ra S02 R wherein Ra is an optionally branched alkylene group having 3 or more carbon atoms in the straight chain at 3 position of the coupler and Rb is an alkyl group, a cycloalkyl group or an aryl group. 3. A silver halide color photographic material according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein in the compound of formula I R is a halogen atom, an alkyl group, an aryl group, a heterocyclic group or an alkylthio group or a group of formula EMI153.1 wherein two of R9 to R11 are alkyl groups and the other one is a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group. 4. A silver halide color photographic material according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the magenta color image forming coupler is a compound of formula III , IV , V , VI , VII or VIII EMI154.1 wherein each of R1 to R8 is a hydrogen atom or a substituent and X is a hydrogen atom or a substituent susceptible to displacement upon reaction with the oxidation product of a color developing agent. 5. A silver halide color photographic material according to claim 4, wherein in the compound of any of formulae III to VIII R1 is a halogen atom, an alkyl group, an aryl group, a heterocyclic group or an alkylthio group or a group of formula EMI155.1 wherein two of Rg to R11 are alkyl groups and the other one is a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group. 6. A silver halide color photographic material according to claim 4 or claim 5, wherein the magenta color image forming coupler is a compound of formula III . 7. A silver halide color photographic material according to claim 6, wherein in the compound of formula III R2 is a group Ra S02 Rb a and b wherein P and Rb are as defined in claim 2. 8. A silver halide color photographic material according to any preceding claim, wherein the compound of formula II is a compound of formula XI , XII or XIII EMI156.1 wherein R1, R2 and R3 are as defined in respect of formula II in claim 1 and each of R4, R5, R6, R7, R8 and R9 is a hydrogen atom, a halogen atom, an alkyl group, an alkoxy group, an alkenyl group, a hydroxy group, an aryl group, an aryloxy group or a heterocyclic group and any one or more of the pairs R andR5, R5, and R6, R6 and R7, R7 and R8, and R9 optionally EMI157.1 tb SEP DOCUMENTS SEP CONSIDERED SEP TO SEP BE SEP RELEVANT SEP 1 tb SEP Citabon SEP of SEP document SEP wgth SEP mdlcatlon, SEP where SEP appropnate, SEP Relevant SEP CLASSIFICATtON SEP OF SEP THE tb SEP Category SEP ot SEP relevant SEP passages SEP to SEP clalm SEP APPLICATION SEP Int SEP Cl SEP 4 SEP tb SEP G SEP 03 SEP C SEP 7 38 tb SEP X SEP RESEARCH SEP DISCLOSURE, SEP no. SEP 245, SEP 1 lO SEP G SEP 03 SEP C SEP 7 26 tb SEP September SEP 1984, SEP pages SEP 442 454, tb SEP no. SEP 24531, SEP Industrial tb SEP Opportunities, SEP Havant, SEP Hants, tb SEP GB SEP Image SEP forming SEP process tb SEP SEP Page SEP 442, SEP right hand SEP column, tb SEP line SEP 24 SEP page SEP 446, SEP coupler SEP 20 tb SEP page SEP 453, SEP compounds SEP B 5,B 6 SEP tb SEP X SEP GB A 2 SEP 135 SEP 788 SEP FUJI SEP PHOTO SEP 1,3 6 tb SEP FILM SEP 8 10 tb SEP SEP Page SEP 3, SEP compound SEP C 5 SEP page SEP 10, tb SEP compounds SEP A7 A9 SEP page SEP 11, SEP com tb SEP pound SEP A 16 SEP claims SEP tb SEP A SEP DE A 3 SEP 221 SEP 883 SEP FUJI SEP PHOTO SEP 1 10 tb SEP FILM tb SEP SEP Page SEP 52, SEP lines SEP 5 11 SEP claims SEP SEP TECHNICALFIELDS tb SEP SEARCHED SEP into SEP Cl SEP 4 tb SEP A SEP DE A 1 SEP 810 SEP 464 SEP EASTMAN SEP KODAK tb SEP G SEP 03 SEP C SEP 7 tb SEP A SEP FR A 2 SEP 314 SEP 517 SEP AGFA GEVAERT tb SEP The SEP present SEP search SEP report SEP has SEP been SEP drawn SEP up SEP tor SEP all SEP claims tb SEP Place SEP of SEP search SEP Date SEP of SEP completion SEP of SEP the SEP search SEP SEP Examiner tb SEP THE SEP HAGUE SEP 10 01 1986 SEP PHILOSOPH SEP L.P. tb CATEGORY SEP OF SEP CITED SEP DOCUMENTS SEP T SEP SEP theory SEP or SEP principle SEP underlying SEP the SEP Invention tb SEP E SEP SEP earlier SEP patent SEP document. SEP but SEP published SEP on. SEP or tb O SEP X SEP particularly SEP relevant SEP if SEP taken SEP alone SEP after SEP the SEP filing SEP date tb i SEP Y SEP particularly SEP relevant SEP if SEP combined SEP with SEP another SEP Document SEP cited SEP In SEP the SEP application tb document SEP of SEP the SEP same SEP category SEP L SEP SEP document SEP cited SEP for SEP other SEP reasons tb O SEP A SEP technological SEP background tb o SEP O SEP non wntten SEP disclosure SEP member SEP of SEP the SEP same SEP patent SEP family. SEP corresponding tb 0 tb P SEP P SEP mtermedlateintermediate SEP document SEP document tb

## Description
SILVER HALIDE COLOR PHOTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL FIELD OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to a silver halide color photographic material, and more particularly, to a silver halide color photographic material that forms a dye image which is stable against heat or light and in which no stain is likely to occur. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION As is well known, in color development following the image wise exposure of a silver halide color photographic material, the oxidized product of an aromatic primary amine color developing agent enters into coupling reaction with a color former to form a color image composed of, for example, indophenol, indoaniline, indamine, azomethine, phenoxazine, phenazine or other dyes similar thereto. In this photographic process, color reproduction is usually achieved by the substractive process using a silver halide color photographic material wherein blue , green and red sensitive silver halide emulsion layers contain color formers, or couplers that will develop colors which are the respective complements of blue, green and red, namely, yellow, magenta and cyan colors. An illustrative coupler used to form a yellow color image is acylacetanilide compound. Exemplary magenta image forming couplers include pyrazolone, pyrazolobenzimidazole, pyrazolotriazole and indazolone compounds.Among the couplers commonly used for cyan image formation are included phenolic and naphtholic compounds. The dye images formed by the coupling reaction with such color formers and the oxidation product of aromatic primary amine color developing agent are required to undergo no discoloration or fading even if they are exposed to light or stored under hot and humid atmosphere for a prolonged period. It is also required that the background of a silver halide color photographic material to be hereunder referred to simply as a color photographic material or the areas where no color has formed should not undergo any yellow staining hereunder Y staining as a result of exposure to light or moist heat. Magenta couplers are much more sensitive than yellow and cyan couplers to Y staining in the background caused by heat or moist heat as well as to the fading of the image areas resulting from prolonged exposure to light, and this has often caused serious problems in conventional color photography. Couplers extensively used for magenta dye formation are 5 pyrazolones. Dyes produced from such compounds generally have primary absorption at about 550 nm but they also have secondary absorption at about 430 nm.In order to minimize such secondary absorption, various efforts have been made. For example, magenta couplers having an anilino group at 3 position of 5 pyrazolones have relatively small degree of secondary absorption and are particularly useful for obtaining color images in print format. Details of this technique are found in U.S. Patent No. 2,343,703 and British Patent No.1,059,994. However, such substituted magenta couplers are very poor in image keeping quality, especially in the fastness of color image to light. In addition, the background is highly sensitive to Y staining. Other magenta couplers that have been proposed as means capable of reducing the secondary absorption at about 430 nm include pyrazolobenzimidazoles BritishPatent No. 1,047,612 , indazolones U.S. Patent No.3,770,447 , lH pyrazolo 5,1 c 1,2,4 triazole type couplers U.S. Patent No. 3,725,067 and British PatentNos. 1,252,418 and 1,334,515 , IH pyrazolo 1,5 b 1,2,4 triazole type couplers Research DisclosureNo. 24,531 lH pyrazolo 1,5 c 1,2,3 triazole type couplers Research Disclosure No. 24,626 , 1H imidazo 1,2 b pyrazole type couplers Unexamined PublishedJapanese Patent Application No. 162,548 1984 andResearch Disclosure No. 24531 , lH pyrazolo El,5 b pyrazole type couplers Research Disclosure No. 24230 , and 1H pyrazolo 1,5 d tetrazole type couplers ResearchDisclosure No. 24220 .Dyes formed from the lH pyrazolo 5,1 c 1,2,4 triazole type magenta couplers, 1H pyrazolo 1,5 b 1,2,4 triazole type couplers, 1H pyrazolo 1 ,5 c 1, 2,3 triazole type couplers, 1Himidazo 1,2 6 pyrazole type couplers, lH pyrazolo 1,5 d pyrazole type couplers and lH pyrazolo 1,5 d tetrazole type couplers are preferred in terms of color reproduction over dyes formed from the l,2 pyrazolo 5 ones having an anilino group at 3 position because the former has a far smaller secondary absorption at about 430 nm. Furthermore, the background of photographic materials using these couplers as magenta couplers has extremely low sensitivity to Y staining resulting from exposure to light, heat or moisture. However, the azomethine dye formed from these couplers has a very small degree of fastness of light.In addition, such dye is highly likely to discolor upon exposure to light and has yet to be used commercially in color photographic materials, especially in color prints which are subject to considerable degradation resulting from the discoloration of dyes. Unexamined Published Japanese Patent ApplicationNo. 125732 1984 proposes a technique for improving the light fastness of the magenta dye image from the 1H pyrazolo 5,1 cj 1 ,2,4 triazole type magenta coupler by using it in combination with a phenolic compound or a phenyl ether compound. However, even this technique is not completely satisfactory in preventing the magenta dye image from fading upon exposure to light, and is practically incapable of preventing the light discoloration of such dye image. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION One object, therefore, of the present invention is to provide a color photographic material that is capable of faithfyl color reproduction and which exhibits a highly improved light fastness in magenta dye image. Another object of the invention is to provide a color photographic material producing a magenta dye image that experiences a minimal degree of discoloration upon exposure to light. A further object of the invention is to provide a color photographic material that is protected against the occurrence of Y stain in the background resulting from exposure to light or moist heat. These objects of the invention can be achieved by a silver halide color photographic material containing a magenta color image forming coupler represented by the following formula I and a compound represented by the following formula it EMI6.1 wherein Z represents the group of nonmetallic atoms necessary for forming a nitrogen containing heterocyclic ring, provided that the ring to be formed by said Z may have a substituent X represents a hydrogen atom or a substituent capable of leaving upon reaction with the oxidized product of a color developing agent and R represents a hydrogen atom or a substituent.EMI6.2 wherein R1 and R3 each R3 represents a hydrogen atom, a halogen atom, an alkyl group, an alkenyl group, an alkoxy group, a hydroxy group, an aryl group, an aryloxy group, an acyl group, an acylamino group, an acyloxy group, a sulfonamido group, cycloalkyl group or an alkoxycarbonyl group R2 represents a hydrogen atom, a halogen atom, an alkyl group, an alkenyl group, a hydroxy group, an aryl group, an acyl group, an acylamino group, an acyloxy group, a sulfonamide group, a cycloalkyl group or an alkoxycarbonyl group R2 and R3 may cooperate to form a 5 or 4 membered ring and Y represents the group of atoms necessary to form an indan ring. In the magenta coupler of formula I , the substituent represented by R includes, for example, a halogen atom, an alkyl group, a cycloalkyl group, an alkenyl group, a cycloalkenyl group, an alkinyl group, an aryl group, a heterocyclic group, an acyl group, a sulfonyl group, a sulfinyl group, a phosphonyl group, a carbamoyl group, a sulfamoyl group, a cyano group, a spiro compound residue, a bridged hydrocarbon compound residue, an alkoxy group, an aryloxy group, a heterocyclicoxy group, a siloxy group, an acyloxy group, a carbamoyloxy group, an amino group, an acylamino group, a sulfonamide group, an imido group, a ureido group, a sulfamoylamino group, an alkoxycarbonylamino group, an aryloxycarbonylamino group, an alkoxycarbonyl group, an aryloxycarbonyl group, an alkylthio group, an arylthio group and a heterycyclicthio group. The halogen atom includes, for example, chlorine and bromine atoms, the chlorine atom being particularly preferable. The alkyl group represented by R is preferably one having 1 to 32 carbon atoms, the alkenyl group and the alkinyl group are preferably those having 2 to 32 carbon atoms, and the cycloalkyl group and the cycloalkenyl group are preferably those having 3 to 12, particularly 5 to 7, carbon atoms, the alkyl, alkenyl and alkinyl groups each including those having a straight or branched chain. These alkyl, alkenyl, alkinyl, cycloalkyl and cycloalkenyl groups each may have one or more substituents.Such substituents include, in addition to an aryl group, a cyano group, a halogen atom, a heterocyclic group, a cycloalkyl group, a cycloalkenyl group, a spirocompound residue and a bridged hydrocarbon compound residue, for example, those substituted through the carbonyl group, such as acyl, carboxy, carbamoyl, alkoxycarbonyl and aryloxycarbonyl groups, and those substituted through the hetero atom, for example, those substituted through the oxygen atom, such as hydroxy, alkoxy, aryloxy, heterocyclicoxy, siloxy, acyloxy and carbamoyloxy groups, those substituted through the nitrogen atom, such as nitro, amino including dialkylamino and the like , sulfamonylamino, alkoxycarbonylamino, aryloxycarbonylamino, acylamino, sulfoneamido, imido and ureido groups, those substituted through the sulfur atom, such as alkylthio, arylthio, heterocyclicthio, sulfonyl, sulfinyl and sulfamoyl groups, and those substituted through the phosphorus atom, such as a phosphonyl group and the like. Examples of the alkyl group represented by R include, for example, methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, t butyl, pentadecyl, heptadecyl, l hexylnonyl, l,l dipentylnonyl, 2 chloro t butyl, trifluoromethyl, l ethoxytridecyl, l methoxyisopropyl, methanesulfonylethyl, 2,4 di tamylphenoxymethyl, anilino, l phenylisopropyl, 3 m butanesulfonaminophenoxypropyl, 3 4 4 p hydroxy benzenesulfonyl phenoxy dodecanoylamino phenylpropyl, 3 4 alpha 2 ,4 di t amylphenoxy butaneamido phenyl propyl, 4 a O chlorophenoxy tetradecanamidophenoxy propyl, allyl, cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl groups. The aryl group represented by R is preferably a phenyl gruop, and may have a substituent such as an alkyl, alkoxy or acylamino group. Examples of the aryl group include phenyl, 4 tbutylphenyl, 2,4 di t amylphenyl, 4 tetradecaneamidophenyl, hexadecyl oxyphenyl and 4 a 4 t butylphenoxy tetoradecaneamido phenyl groups. The heterocyclic group represented by R is preferably a 5 to 7 membered heterocyclic ring, and may be substituted or may be condensed. Examples of the heterocyclic group include 2 furyl, 2 thienyl, 2 pyrimidinyl and 2 benzothiazonyl groups. The acyl group represented by R includes, for example, an alkylcarbonyl group such as acetyl, phenylacetyl, dodecanoyl and c 2 , 4 di t amylfenoxybutanoyl groups, and an arylcarbonyl group such as benzoyl, 3 pentadecycloxybenzoyl and p chlorobenzoyl groups. The sulfonyl group represented by R includes, for example, an alkylsulfonyl group such as methylsulfonyl and dodecylsulfonyl groups, and an arylsulfonyl group such as benzenesulfonyl and p toluenesulfonyl groups. The sulfinyl group represented by R includes, for example, an alkylsulfinyl group such as ethylsulfinyla octylsulfinyl and 3 fenoxybutylsulfinyl groups and an arylsulfinyl group such as phenylsulfinyl and m pentadecylphenylsulfinyl groups. The phosphonyl group represented by R includes, for example, an alkylphosphonyl group such as butyloxyoctyl phosphonyl group, an alkoxyphosphonyl group such as octyloxyphosphonyl group, an aryloxyphosphonyl group such as phenoxyphosphonyl group and an arylphosphonyl group such as phenylphosphonyl group. The carbamoyl group represented by R includes, for example, those substituted with an alkyl or aryl preferably phenyl group, such as, N methylcarbamoyl, N,Ndibutylcarbamoyl, N 2 pentadecyloctylethyl carbamoyl,N ethyl N dodecylcarbamoyl and N l3 2,4 di t amylphenoxy propyl carbamoyl group. The sulfamoyl group represented by R includes, for example, those substituted with an alkyl or aryl preferably phenyl group, such as N propylsulfamoyl, N,Ndiethylsulfamoyl, N 2 pentadecyloxyethyl sulfamoyl,N ethyl N dodecylsulfamoyl and N phenylsulfamoyl groups. The spiro compound residue represented by R includes, for example, spiro 3,3 heptan 1 yl and the like. The bridged hydrocarbon compound residue represented by R includes, for example, bicycloE2,2,1 heptane 1 yl, 3,7 tricyclo 3,3,1,1 decane l yl and 7,7 dimethyl bicyclo 2,2, 1 heptane 1 yl. The alkoxy group reprented by R includes, for example, those substituted further with such a substituent s as is shown above with the alkyl group, such as methoxy, propoxy, 2 ethoxyethoxy, pentadecyloxy, 2 dodecyloxyethoxy and phenethyloxyethoxy. The aryloxy group represented by R is preferably a phenyloxy group, and includes, for example, those of which aryl nucleus is further subsituted with such a substituent s or an atom s as is shown above with the aryl group, such as phenoxy, p t butylphenoxy and m pentadecylphenoxy groups. The heterocyclicoxy group represented by R is preferably one having a 5 to 7 membered heterocyclic ring, and includes those of which heterocyclic ring has a substituent, such as 3,4,5,6 tetrahydropyranyl 2 oxy and l phenyltetrazole 5 oxy groups. The siloxy group represented by R includes those substituted with an alkyl group, for example, trimethylsiloxy, triethylsiloxy and dimethylbutylsiloxy groups. The acyloxy group represented by R includes, for example, alkylcarbonyloxy and arylcarbonyloxy groups, and further includes those having a substituent s such as acetyloxy, a chloroacetyloxy and benzoyloxy groups. The carbamoyloxy group represented by R includes those substituted with an alkyl or aryl group, such asN ethylcarbamoyloxy, N,N diethylcarbamoyloxy and Nphenylcarbamoyloxy groups. The amino group represented by R includes those substituted with an alkyl or aryl preferably phenyl group, such as ethylamino, anilino, m chloroanilino, 3 pentadecyloxycarbonylanilino and 2 chloro 5 hexadecaneamidoanilino groups. The acylmaino. group represented by R includes alkylcarbonylamino and ary lcarbonylamino preferably phenylcarbonylamino groups, and further includes those having a substituent s such as acetamido, a ethylpropane amido, N pnenylacetamido, dodecaneamido, 2,4 di t amyl phenoxyacetamido and a 3 t butyl 4 hydroxyphenoxybutaneamido groups. The sulfonamido group represented by R includes alkylsulfonylamino and arylsulfonylamino groups, and further includes those having a substituent s , such as methylsulfonylamino, pentadecylsulfonylamino, benzensulfonamido, p toluenesulfonamido and 2 methoxy 5t amylbenzenesulfonamido groups. The imido group represented by R includes those which are open chained or close chained, and further includes those having a substituent s , such as, succinimido, 3 heptadecylsuccinimido, phthalimido and glutarimido groups. The ureido group represented by R includes those substituted with an alkyl or aryl preferably phenyl group, such as N ethylureido, N methyl N decylureido,N phenylureido and N p tolylureido groups. The sulfamoylamino group represented by R includes those substituted with an alkyl or aryl preferably phenyl group, such as N,N dibutylsulfamoylamino, Nmethylsulfamoylamino and N phenylsulfamoylamino groups. The alkoxycarbonylamino group represented by R includes those having a substituent s , such as methoxycarbonylamino, methoxyethoxycarbonylamino and octadecyloxycarbonylamino groups. The aryloxycarbonylamino group represented by R includes those having a substituent s , such as phenoxycarbonylamino and 4 methylphenoxycarbonylamino groups. The alkoxycarbonyl group represented by R includes those having a substituent s ,such as methoxycarbonyl, butyloxycarbonyl, dodecyloxycarbonyl, octadecyloxycarbonyl, ethoxymethoxycarbonyloxy and benzyloxycarbonyl groups. The aryloxycarbonyl group represented by R includes those having a substituent s , such as phenoxycarbonyl, p chlorophenoxycarbonyl and m pentadecyloxyphenoxycarbonyl groups. The alkylthio group represented by R includes those having a substituent s ,such as ethylthio, dodecylthio, octadodecylthio, phenethylthio and 3 phenoxypropylthio groups. The arylthio group represented by R is preferably a phenylthio group, and includes those having a substituent s , such as phenylthio, p methoxyphenylthio, 2 t octylphenylthio, 3 octadecylphenylthio, 2 carboxyphenylthio and p acetaminophenylthio groups. The heterocyclicthio group, represented by R is preferably a 5 to 7 membered heterocyclicthio group, and includes those having a condensed ring or having a substituent s . Examples of such heterocyclicthio group include 2 pyridylthio, 2 benzothiazolylthio and 2,4 diphenoxy 1,3,5 triazol 6 thio groups. The substituent represented by X that is capable of leaving upon reaction with the oxidized product of a color developing agent includes, for example, those substituted through the carbon, oxygen, sulfur or nitrogen atom other than the halogen atom chlorine, bromine or fluorine atom . The groups which are substituted through the carbon atom include, in addition to the carboxyl group, a group represented by the following formula EMI15.1 wherein R1 is the same in meaning as. said R Z is the same in meaning as said Z and R2 and R3 each represents a hydrogen atom, an aryl, alkyl or heterocyclic group , a hydroxymethyl group and a triphenylmethyl group. The groups which are substituted through the oxygen atom include, for example, alkoxy, aryloxy, heterocyclicoxy, acyloxy, sulfonyloxy, alkoxycarbonyloxy, aryloxycarbonyloxy, alkyloxalyloxy and alkoxyoxalyloxy groups. The alkoxy group includes those having a substituent s , such as ethoxy, 2 phenoxyethoxy, 2 cyanoethoxy, phenethyloxy, and p chlorobenzyloxy groups. The aryloxy group is preferably a phenoxy group, and includes those having a substituent s . Examples of such aryloxy group include phenoxy, 3 methylphenoxy, 3 dodecylphenoxy, 4 methanesulfoneamidophenoxy, 4 a 3 pentadecylphenoxy butaneamido phenoxy, hexadecylcarbamoylmethoxy, 4 cyanophenoxy, 4 methanesulfonylphenoxy, l naphthyloxy and p methoxyphenoxy groups. The heterocyclicoxy group is preferably a 5 to 7 membered heterocyclicoxy group, and may be a condensed ring or include those having a substituent s . Examples of such heterocyclicoxy group include l phenyltetra zolyloxy and 2 benzothiazolyloxy groups. The acyloxy group includes, for example, an alkylcarbonyloxy group such as acetoxy and butanoyloxy groups, an alkenylcarbonyloxy group such as a cinnamoyloxy group, and an arylcarbonyloxy group such as a benzoyloxy group. The sulfonyloxy group includes, for example, butanesulfonyloxy and methanesulfonyloxy groups. The alkoxycarbonyloxy group includes, for example, ethoxycarbonyloxy and benzyloxycarbonyloxy groups. The aryloxycarbonyloxy group includes a phenoxycarbonyloxy group and the like. The alkyloxalyloxy group includes, for example, a methyloxalyloxy group. The alkoxyoxalyloxy group includes an ethoxyoxalyloxy group and the like. The group which is substituted through the sulfur atom includes, for example, alkylthio, arythio, heterocyclicthio and alkyloxythiocarbonylthio groups. The alkylthio group includes butylthio, 2 cyanoethylthio, phenetylthio and benzylthio groups. The arylthio group includes phenylthio, 4 methanesulfoneamidophenylthio, 4 dodecylphenetylthio, 4nonafluoropentaneamidophenetylthio, 4 carboxyphenylthio and 2 ethoxy 5 t butylphenylthio groups. The heterocyclicthio group includes, for example, 1 phenyl 1,2,3,4 tetrazolyl 5 thio and 2 benzothiazolylthio groups. The alkyloxythiocarbonylthio group includes a dodecyloxythiocarbonylthio group and the like. The group which is substituted through the nitrogen atom includes, for example, one represented by the formulaEMI17.1 wherein R4 and R51 each represents a hydrogen atom, an alkyl, aryl, heterocyclic, sulfamoyl, carbamoyl, acyl, sulfonyl, aryloxycarbonyl or alkoxycarbonyl group, and R4 and R5 may cooperate to form a heterocyclic ring, provided that R4, and R5 are not hydrogen atoms at the same time. The alkyl group may be straight chained or branched and is preferably one having 1 to 22 carbon atoms. Also, the alkyl group may include those having a substituent s .Examples of such substituent include, for example, aryl, alkoxy,aryloxy, alkylthio, arylthio, alkylamino, arylamino, acylamino, sulfoneamido, imino, acyl, alkylsulfonyl, arylsulfonyl, carbamoyl, sulfamoyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aryloxycarbonyl, alkyloxycarbonylamino, aryloxycarbonylamino, hydroxy, carboxyl and ciano groups and halogen atom. Examples of such alkyl group includes, for example, ethyl, octyl, 2 ethylhexyl and 2 chloroethyl group. The aryl group represented by R4 or R51 is preferably one having 6 to 32 carbon atoms, particularly a phenyl or naphtyl group, and may include those having a substituent s . Such substituent includes a substituent for the alkyl group represented by R41 or R5 and an alkyl group. Examples of the aryl group include, for example, phenyl, 1 naphtyl and 4 methylsulfonylphenyl groups. The heterocyclic group represented by R4 or R51 is preferably a 5 or 6 membered ring, and may be a condensed ring or include those having a substituent s .Examples of such heterocyclic group include 2 furyl, 2 quindlyl, 2 pyrimidyl, 2 benzothiazolyl and 2pyridyl groups. The sulfamoyl group represented by R4 or R5, includes N alkylsulfamoyl, N,N dialkylsulfamoyl, N arylsulfamoyl and N,N diarylsulfamoyl groups, and these alkyl and aryl groups may have such a substituent s as is mentioned with respect to the alkyl and aryl groups. Examples of such sulfamoyl group includes, for example, N,N diethylsulfamoyl, N methylsulfamoyl,N dodecylsulfamoyl and N p tolylsulfamoyl groups. The carbamoyl group represented by R4 or R5 includes N alkylcarbamoyl, N,N dialkylcarbamoyl, Narylcarbamoyl and N,N diarylcarbamoyl groups, and these alkyl and aryl groups may have such a substituent s as is mentioned with respect to the alkyl and aryl groups.Examples of such carbamoyl group include, for example,N,N diethylcarbamoyl, N methylcarbamoyl, N dodecylcarbamoyl, N p cianophenylcarbamoyl and N p tolylcarbamoyl groups. The acyl group represented by R4 or R5 includes, for example, alkylcarbonyl, arylcarbonyl and hetero cycliccarbonyl groups, and the alkyl, aryl and heterpcyclic groups may have a substituent s . Examples of such acyl group include, for example, hexafluorobutanoyl, 2,3,4,5,6 pentafluorobenzoyl, acetyl, benzoyl, naphtoyl and 2 furylcarbonyl groups. The sulfonyl group represented by R4 or R5 includes alkylsulfonyl, arylsulfonyl and heterocyclicsulfonyl groups, and may have a substituent s . Examples of such sulfonyl group include, for example, ethanesulfonyl, benzenesulfonyl, octanesulfonyl, naphthalenesulfonyl and p chlorobenzenesulfonyl groups. The aryloxycarbonyl group represented by R4 or R51 may have such a substituent s as is mentioned with respect to the aryl group, and includes a phenoxycarbonyl group and the like. The alkoxycarbonyl group represented by R4 orR5 may have such a substituent s as is mentioned with respect to alkyl group, and includes methoxycarbonyl, dodecyloxycarbonyl and benzyloxycarbonyl groups. The heterocyclic ring which is formed through cooperation of R4 and R5 is preferably a 5 or 6membered ring, may be saturated or unsaturated, may or may not be an aromatic ring, or may be a condensed ring.Examples of such heterocyclic ring include, for example,N phthalimido, N succinimide, 4 N urazolyl, 1 N hydantoinyl, 3 N 2,4 dioxooxazolidinyl, 2 N 1,1 dioxo 3 2H oxo 1,2benzthiazolyl, 1 pyrrolyl, 1 pyrrolidinyl, 1 pyrazolyl, 1 pyrazolidinyl, 1 piperidinyl, 1 pyrrolinyl, 1 imidazolyl, 1 imidazolinyl, 1 indolyl, 1 isoindolinyl, 2 iso indolyl, 2 isoindolinyl, 1 benzotriazolyl, 1 benzoimidazolyl, 1 1,2,4 triazolyl , 1 1,2,3 triazolyl , 1 1,2,3,4tetrazolyl , N morpholinyl, 1,2,3,4 tetrahydroquinolyl, 2 oxo 1 pyrrolidinyl, 2 1H pyridone, phthalazione and 2 oxo 1 piperidinyl groups.These heterocyclic groups may be substituted by alkyl, aryl, alkyloxy, aryloxy, acyl, sulfonyl, alkylamino, arylamino, acylamino, sulfoneamino, carbamoyl, sulfamoyl, alkylthio, arylthio, ureido, alkoxycarbonyl, aryloxycarbonyl, imido, nitro, cyano, carboxyl groups as well as by a halogen atom and the like. The nitrogen containing heterocyclic ring which is formed by Z or Z includes pyrazol, imidazol, triazol and tetrazol rings, and may have such a substituent s as is mentioned with respect to R. When the substituent s for example either of R and R1 to R8 on the heterocyclic ring in formula I and in formulas III to IX to be mentioned later has the following formula EMI21.1 wherein R , X and Z are the same in meaning as R, X and Z in formula I , respectively , the coupler formed is the so called bis type coupler, which is included in the present invention. The ring which is formed by Z,Z , Z as well as by Z1 to be stated later may be condensed with another ring for example 5 to 7 membered cycloalkene . For example, in formula VI , R5 and R6, and in formula VII , R7 and R8, may cooperate to form a ring for example, 5 to 7 membered cycloalkene, or benzene , respectively. The coupler represented by formula I preferably includes, for example, those represented by the following formulas III to VIII s EMI22.1 EMI23.1 wherein R1 to R8 and X are the same in meaning as R and X mentioned above. The coupler of formula I is preferably one represented by the following formula IX EMI23.2 wherein R1, X and Z1 are the same in meaning as R, X and Z in formula I . Of the magenta couplers represented by formulas III to VIII , those represented by formula III are particularly preferable. With respect to the substituent s on the hetero cyclic ring in formalas I and III to IX , R in formula I and R1 in formulas III to IX are preferable when they satisfy the following requirement 1, the same R and R1 are more preferable when they satisfy the following requirements 1 and 2, and the same R and R1 are most preferable when they satisfy all of the following requirements 1, 2 and 3 Requirement 1 The root atom bonded directly to the heterocyclic ring is a carbon atom. Requirement 2 Said carbon atom has only one hydrogen atom or has no hydrogen atom at all, bonded thereto. Requirement 3 The bonds between said carbon atom and adjacent atoms are all single bonds. The most preferable substituents R and R1 on the heterocyclic ring are those represented by the following formula X EMI24.1 wherein Rg, R10 and R11 each represents a hydrogen atom, a halogen atom, an alkyl group, a cycloalkyl group, an alkenyl group, a cycloalkenyl group, an alkinyl group, an aryl group,a heterocyclic group, an acyl group, a sulfonyl group, a sulfinyl group, a phosphonyl group, carbamoyl group, a sulfamoyl gruop, a cyano group, a spiro compound residue, a bridged hydrocarbon compound residue, an alkoxy group, an aryloxy group, a heterocyclicoxy group, a siloxy group, an acyloxy group, a carbamoyloxy group, an amino group, an acylamino group, a sulfonamide group, an imido group, a ureido group, a sulfamoylamino group, an alkoxycarbonylamino group, an aryloxycarbonylamino group, an alkoxycarbonyl group, an aryloxycarbonyl group, an alkylthio group, an arylthio group or a heterocyclicthio group, provided that at least two of R9, R10 and R11 are not hydrogen atoms. Two of Rg, R10 and R11, for example, Rg and R10 may cooperate to form a saturated or unsaturated ring e.g. cycloalkane, cycloalkene or heterocyclic ring , and further R11 may cooperate with said ring to form a bridged hydrocarbon compound residue. The group represented by Rg to R11 may have a substituent s . Examples of said group and said substituent s are the same as the examples of the group represented by R in formula I and the substituent s mentioned with respect thereto. Examples of the ring formed by the cooperation of, for example, Rgand R10, as well as of the bridged hydrocarbon compound residue which is formed by Rg toR11 and the substituent s which said residue may have, are the same as the examples of the cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl and heterocyclic groups represented by R in formula I , and the substituent s mentioned with respect thereto. The preferable substituents in formula IX are as follows i Two of Rg to R11 are alkyl groups. ii One of Rg to Rill, for example, R11 is a hydrogen atom, and the other two, R9 and Rlo, cooperate with the root carbon atom to form a cycloalkyl group. Further, the preferable substituent. s in i above is such that two of R9 to R11 are alkyl groups, and the other one is a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group. The alkyl and cycloalkyl groups each may have a substituent s . Examples of such alkyl and cycloalkyl groups as well as of their substituents are the same as the examples of the alkyl and cycloalkyl groups represented by R in formula I and the substituents mentioned with respect thereto. In the present invention, the couplers represented by formula I are preferably those having a group represented by the following formula A Ra SO2 Rb wherein Ra represents an alkylene group having 3 or more carbon atoms in the straight chain that is bonded to the hydrocarbon at 3 position of the coupler and b R represents an alkyl group, a cycloalkyl group or an aryl group. The alkylene group represented by Ra has 3 or more, preferably 3 to 6, carbon atoms in the straight chain, and include those having a substituent. Examples of the substituent include, in addition to an aryl group, a cyano group, a halogen atom, a heterocyclic group, a cycloalkyl group, a cycloalkenyl group, a spiro compound residue and a bridged hydrocarbon compound residue, for example, those substituted through the carbonyl group, such as acyl, carboxy, carbamoyl, alkoxycarbonyl and aryloxycarbonyl groups, and those substituted through the hetero atom, for example, those substituted through the oxygen atom, such as hydroxy, alkoxy, aryloxy, heterocyclicoxy, siloxy, acyloxy and carbamoyloxy groups, those substituted through the nitrogen atom, such as nitro, amino including dialkylamino and the like , sulfamonylamino, alkoxycarbonylamino, aryloxycarbonylamino, acylamino, sulfoneamido, imido and ureido groups, those substituted through the sulfur atom, such as alkylthio, arylthio, heterocyclicthio, sulfonyl, sulfinyl and sulfamoyl groups, and those substituted through the phosphorus atom, such as a phosphonyl group and the like. The substituent is preferably a phenyl group. Preferred examples of the alkylene group represented by Ra are listed below EMI28.1 b The alkyl group represented by R may be one having a straight chain or a branched chain. Example of such alkyl group includes methyl, ethyl, propyl, iso propyl, butyl, 2 ethylhexyl, octyl, dodecyl, tetradecyl, hexadecyl, octadecyl and 2 hexyldecyl groups. The cycloalkyl group represented by R is preferably one having a 5 or 6 membered ring, for example, a cyclohexyl group. The alkyl and cycloalkyl groups represented by Rb include those having a substituent, for example, those exemplified as substituents for Ra. Examples of the aryl group represented by R include phenyl and napthyl groups, and also include those having a substituent. Examples of such substituent include, for example, alkyl groups having a straight chain or a branched chain and those exemplified as substituents for Ra. When 2 or more substituents are present, they may be the same or different. More preferred couplers represented by formula I of the present invention are those represented by the following formula B EMI29.1 wherein Ra and Rb are the same in meaning as Ra and Rb in in formula A , and R and X are the same in meaning as R and X in formula I , respectively. Typical, but by no means limiting, examples of the coupler that can be used in the present invention are listed below. EMI30.1 EMI31.1 EMI32.1 EMI33.1 EMI34.1 EMI35.1 EMI36.1 EMI37.1 EMI38.1 EMI39.1 EMI40.1 EMI41.1 EMI42.1 EMI43.1 EMI44.1 EMI45.1 EMI46.1 EMI47.1 EMI48.1 EMI49.1 EMI50.1 EMI51.1 EMI52.1 EMI53.1 EMI54.1 EMI55.1 EMI56.1 EMI57.1 EMI58.1 EMI59.1 EMI60.1 EMI61.1 EMI62.1 EMI63.1 EMI64.1 EMI65.1 EMI66.1 EMI67.1 EMI68.1 EMI69.1 EMI70.1 EMI71.1 EMI72.1 EMI73.1 EMI74.1 EMI75.1 EMI76.1 EMI77.1 EMI78.1 EMI79.1 EMI80.1 EMI81.1 EMI82.1 EMI83.1 EMI84.1 EMI85.1 EMI86.1 EMI87.1 EMI88.1 EMI89.1 EMI90.1 These couplers were synthesized by reference toJournal of the Chemical Society, Perkin I 1977 , pages 2047 to 2052, U.S. Patent No. 3,725,067 and UnexaminedPublished Japanese Patent Application Nos. 99437 1984, 42045 1983, 162548 1984, 59171956 1984, 33552 1985 and 43659 1985. The coupler of the present invention is usually incorporated in an amount within the range of 1 x 10 mole to 1 mole, preferably 1 x 10 2 mole to 8 x 10 1 mole, per mole of silver halide. The coupler of the present invention may be used in combination with any other type of magenta coupler. Magenta dye image stabilizers to be used in combination with the coupler of the present invention are compounds such as 5 hydroxyindan, 5,5 dihydroxy l,l spirobiindan and 6,6 dihydroxy 1 , 1 spirobiindan represented by the following formula II which have both an effect of preventing the color fading due to light and an effect of preventing the discoloration due to light of magenta dye images EMI91.1 wherein R1 and R3 each represents a hydrogen atom, a halogen atom, an alkyl group, an alkenyl group, an alkoxy group, a hydroxy group, an aryl group, an aryloxy group, an acyl group, an acylamino group, an acyloxy group, a sulfonamido group, a cycloalkyl group or an alkoxycarbonyl group.Examples of these groups are the same as those mentioned for R in formula I R2 represents a hydrogen atom, a halogen atom, an alkyl group, an alkenyl group, a hydroxy group, an aryl group, an acyl group, an acylamino group, an acyloxy group, a sulfonamide group, a cycloalkyl group or an alkoxycarbonyl group. Examples of these groups are the same as those mentioned for R in formula I . These groups may be substituted by other substituents, respectively, such as, for example, alkyl, alkenyl, alkoxy, aryl, aryloxy, hydroxy, alkoxycarbonyl, aryloxycarbonyl, acylamino, carbamoyl, sulfonamido and sulfamoyl groups. R2 and R3 may cooperate to form a 5 or 6membered hydrocarbon ring. This hydrocarbon ring may be substituted by a halogen atom, an alkyl group, a cycloalkyl group, an alkoxy group, an alkenyl group, a hydroxy group, an aryl group, an aryloxy group or a heterocyclic group and Y represents the group of atoms necessary to form an indan ring. This indan ring may be substituted by a halogen atom, an alkyl group, an alkenyl group, an alkoxy group, a cycloalkyl group, a hydroxy group, an aryl group, an aryloxy group or a heterocyclic group, and further may form a spiro ring. Of the compounds represented by formula it , those which are particularly useful in the present invention are compounds represented by the following formulas XI to XIII EMI93.1 wherein R1, R2 and R3 are the same in meaning as R1, R2 and R3 in formula Il and R4, 5 R6, R7, R8 and R9 each represents a hydrogen atom, a halogen atom, an alkyl group, an alkoxy group, an alkenyl group, a hydroxy group,l an aryl group, an aryloxy group or a heterocyclic group. R4 and R5, R5 and R6, R6 and R7R7 and R8, and R8 and R9 each may cooperate to form a hydrocarbon ring, which ring may be substituted by an alkyl group. Particularly useful are compounds wherein R1 and R3 in formulas XI to XIII , each represents a hydrogen atom, an alkyl group, an alkoxy group, a hydroxy group or a cycloalkyl group, R2 represents a hydrogen atom, an alkyl group, a hycroxy group or a cycloalkyl group, and R4, R51 R61 R7, R8 and R9 each represents a hydrogen atom, an alkyl group or a cycloalkyl group. Typical, but by no means limiting, examples of such compounds which can be used in the present invention are listed below.EMI94.1 EMI95.1 EMI96.1 EMI97.1 EMI98.1 EMI99.1 EMI100.1 EMI101.1 EMI102.1 EMI103.1 EMI104.1 The magenta dye image stabilizers represented by formulas II , and XI to XIII of the present invention can be synthesized in accordance with the method of synthesis described in J. Chem. Soc., 1962, pages 415 to 417, Japanese Patent Publication No. 32785 1984, and Bull, Chem. Soc., Japan, 1980, 53, pages 555 and 556. The magenta dye image stabilizers of the present invention are disclosed in Japanese Patent DuplicationNo. 32785 1984, and are used as stabilizers for magenta dye images formed from pyrazolone, indazolone or cyanoacetyl type magenta couplers. In said Japanese PatentPublication, these magenta dye image stabilizers are described to be particularly useful as stabilizers for magenta dye images formed from 5 pyrazolone type magenta couplers, but nothing is suggested as to the fact that these stabilizers are useful for magenta dye images formed from the magenta couplers of the present invention which differ in structure from such magenta coupler The present inventors made studies in detail and have found that a hydroxyindan compound represented by formula II exhibits an unexpective peculiar effect of keeping magenta dye images formed from the magenta couplers of formula I unchanged for a prolonged period. The magenta dye image stabilizer represented by formula II of the present invention is used in an amount of preferably 5 to 300 mol , more preferably 10 to 200 mol , per mole of the magenta coupler of the formula I . The magenta dye image stabilizer of the present invention may be used in combination with another magenta dye image stabilizer that is represented by the following formula XIV , namely, a phenolic or phenylether compound EMI106.1 wherein R4 is a hydrogen atom, an alkyl group, an aryl group or a heterocyclic group R5, R6, R8 and R9 are each a hydrogen atom, a hydroxy group, an alkyl group, an aryl group, an alkoxy group or an acylamino group R7 is an alkyl group, a hydroxyl group, an aryl group 4 and 5 or an alkoxy group R and R may be fused to form a 5 or 6 membered ring when R7 represents a hydroxy or alkoxy group R4 and R5 may be fused to form a methylenedioxy ring and R6 and R7 may be fused to form a 5 membered carbon ring when R4 represents an alkyl, aryl or heterocyclic group. Several of the compounds of formula XIV are described in U.S. Patent Nos. 3,935,016, 2,982,944, and 4,254,216 Unexamined Published Japanese Patent Application Nos. 21004 1980 and 145530 1979 Published BritishPatent Application Nos. 2,077,455 and 2,062,888 U.S.Patent Nos. 3,764,337, 3,432,300, 3,5 74,627 and 3,573,050 Unexamined Published Japanese Patent Application Nos.152225 1977, 20327 1978, 17729 1978 and 6321 1980 British Patent No. 1,347,556 Published British PatentApplication No. 2,066,975 Japanese Patent PublicationNos. 12337 1979 and 31625 1973 and U.S. Patent No.3,700,455. Specific, but by no means limiting, examples of the compounds of formula XIV are listed below. EMI108.1 EMI109.1 EMI110.1 EMI111.1 EMI112.1 The phenolic or phenylether compound of formula XIV is preferably used in an amount not more than 200 mole of the magenta dye image stabilizer of formula II , with the amount not exceeding 140 mole being more preferred. The phenolic compound and phenylether compound are effective in preventing the fading of the magenta dye image produced from the magenta coupler of the present invention, but they are little effective in preventing such magenta dye image from becoming discolored. Therefore, it is not preferred that the phenolic or phenylether compound is used in an excess amount with respect to the magenta dye image stabilizer of the present invention. The magenta dye image formed from the magenta coupler of the present invention generally undergoes considerable fading upon exposure to light. Furthermore, discoloration resulting from exposure to light is so great that the color of the image changes from the pure magenta to yellowish magenta. The magenta dye image stabilizer of formula II is capable of exhibiting the effects unattainable by the phenolic or phenylether compound, i.e., prevention of fading and discoloration of the magenta dye image produced from the magenta coupler used in the present invention. Accordingly, when the magenta dye image stabilizer of formula II is used in admixture with the conventional magenta dye image stabilizer, i.e., phenolic or phenylether compound, said conventional stabilizer must be used in such an amount that the discoloration upon exposure to light is not remarkable. When such conventional stabilizer, i.e., phenolic or phenylether compound, of formula XIV is used in a suitable amount in combination with the magenta dye image stabilizer of formula if , a synergistic effect is sometimes observed which is due probably to their compensating for the mutual defective points each other. The magenta coupler and magenta dye image stabilizer in accordance with the present invention are preferably used in the same photographic layer, but if desired, they may be incorporated in two different layers such that the stabilizer in a layer adjacent the one containing the magenta coupler. The silver halide photographic material of the present invention may be, for example, color negative and positive films and color photographic paper, but particularly when color photographic paper for viewing the printed color image directly is used, the effect of the present invention is produced strikingly. The silver halide photographic material of the present invention including such color photographic paper may be either for monochrome or multicolor use. The silver halide photographic material for multicolor use has a structure such that silver halide emulsion layers usually containing magenta, yellow and cyan couplers, respectively, as photographic couplers, and nonsensitive layers are superimporsed in appropriate number of layers and in appropriate sequence on the support in order to effect subtractive color reproduction, but such number of layers and sequence may be changed appropriately according to use object. The silver halide emulsion used in the silver halide photographic material of the present invention may be selected from among the silver halides commonly used in silver halide photography, such as silver bromide, silver chloride, silver iodobromide, silver chlorobromide and silver chloroiodobromide. The silver halide grains used in the silver halide emulsions of the present invention may be those obtained by any of the acid method, neutral method, and ammoniacal method. These grains may be grown at one time or may be grown after preparing seed grains. The method of preparing seed grains and the method of growing them may be the same or different. In preparing the silver halide emulsion, halide ions and silver ions may admixed at the same time, or either one may be admixed with the other one present in the emulsion. Also, while considering the critical speed of growth of silver halide crystals, halide ions and silver ions may be added one by one or at the same time into a mixing bath while controlling the pH and pAg in said bath to grow the crystals. In preparing the silver halide of the present invention, it is possible, by using a silver halide solvent optionally, to control the grain size, shape, grain size distribution and speed of growth of the silver halide grains. The silver halide grains to be used in the silver halide emulsions of the present invention may have metal ions incorporated inside the grains and or in the grain surfaces in the course of forming and or growing the grains by using cadmium salt, zinc salt, lead salt, thallium salt, iridium salt or its complex salt, rhodium salt or its complex salt, or iron salt or its complex salt.Said grains may also be placed in an appropriate reduction atmosphere to have reduction sensitized specks imparted inside the grains and or into the grain surfaces. The silver halide emulsions of the present invention may be removed of unnecessary soluble salts after completion of the growth of the silver halide grains or may be left as they are containing such salts. In removing said salts the method described in Research Disclosure No. 17643 may be used. The silver halide grains to be used in the silver halide emulsions of the present invention may have a homogeneous structure throughtoug the crystal, or the structure of the core may be different from that of the shell. These silver halide grains may be of the surface type where latent images are predominantly formed on the grain surface or of the internal type where latent images are formed within the grain. The silver halide grains may be regular crystals or irregular crystals such as inspherical or plane form.They may have any proportions of 100 and 111 planes, and may also be in composite form of these crystals or may be admixed with various crystal grains. The silver halide emulion of the present invention may be a mixture of two or more silver halide emulsions prepared separately. The silver halide emulsion of the present invention is chemically sensitized by an ordinary method, such as the sulfur sensitization using a compound containing sulfur capable of reaction with silver ions or using active gelatin, the selenium sensitization using a selenium compound, the reduction sensitization using reducible material, or the noble metal sensitization using gold and other noble metal compounds. Such methods may be used each independently or in combination. The silver halide emulsion of the present invention may be spectrally sensitized by suitably selected sensitizing dye in order to provide sensitivity for the desired spectral wavelength regions. A variety of spectral sensitizing dyes may be used either individually or in combination.The silver halide emulsion may contain, together with the sensitizer, a dye which itself has no spectral sensitizing action or a supersensitizer which, being a compound which substantially does not absorb visible light, strengthens the sensitizing action of the sensitizer. In order to prevent the occurrence of fog and or keep the photographic properties stable, in the course of preparing the photographic material, in storage or in processing thereof, a compound known in the photographic industry as an antifoggant or stabilizer may be added to the silver halide emulsion of the present invention in the course of chemical ripening and or upon completion of chemical ripening and or after completion of chemical ripening but before coating of the silver halide emulsion. The binder or protective colloid advantageously used in the silver halide emulsion of the present invention is gelatin, but other hydrophilic colloids such as gelatin derivative, glaft polymer of gelatin with other polymer, protein, sugar derivative, cellulose derivative, and synthesized hydrophillic polymer may be used. The photographic emulsion layer and other hydrophilic colloidal layer s of the photographic material using the silver halide emulsion of the present invention are hardened by using hardeners either alone or in combination that bridge the binder or protective colloid molecules to enhance the film strength. The hardener is desirably added in such an amount as is capable of hardening the photographic material to the extent that there is no need to add the hardener in the processing solution, but such hardener may be added in the processing solution. A plasticizer can be added with a view to enhancing the flexibility of the silver halide emulsion layer and or other hydrophilic colloidal layer s of the photographic material using the silver halide emulsion of the present invention. A water insoluble or hardly soluble synthesized polymer latex can bse incorporated for the purpose of improving the dimentional stability of the photographic emulsion layer and other hydrophilic colloidal layer s of the photographic material using the silver halide emulsion of the present inventi In the emulsion layer of the silver halide color photographic material of the present invention, a dye forming coupler is used which forms a dye upon coupling reaction with the oxidized product of an aromatic primary amine developing agent e.g., p phenylenediamine derivative or aminophenol derivative in the color developing processing.The color forming coupler is usually selected so that a dye is formed which absorbs the spectral wavelength sensitive to the emulsion layer containing said dye that is, a yellow dye forming coupler is used in the bluesensitive emulsion layer, a magenta dye forming coupler in the green sensitive emulsion layer, and a cyan dyeforming coupler in the red sensitive emulsion layer.However, the respective couplers may be used in different combinations from those mentioned above according to the object. The yellow dye forming coupler includes acylacetamido couplers e.g. benzoylacetanilides and pivaloyl acetanilides , the magenta dye forming coupler includes, in addition to the couplers of the present invention, 5 pyrazolone, pyrazolobenzimidazole, pyrazolotriazole and open chained acylacetonitrile couplers, and the cyan dye forming coupler includes naphthol and phenol couplers. These dye forming couplers desirably have a group having 8 or more carbon atoms in the molecule that, being called a ballast group, renders the coupler non diffusible.These couplers may be 4 equivalent couplers such that four silver ions need be reduced for the formation of one mole of dye, or may be 2 equivalent couplers such that only two silver ions suffice to be reduced for the formation of one mole of dye. Hydrophobic compounds such as dye forming coupler that need not be adsorpted onto the silver halide crystal surfaces can be dispersed into the emulsion by means of solid dispersion, latex dispersion or oil in water drop type emulsion dispersion. Such dispersion method can be appropriately selected according to the chemical structure and the like of the hydrophobic compounds.The oil in water drop type emulsion dispersion method may be any conventional method of dispersing hydrophobic additives such as coupler, which usually comprises dissolving such hydrophobic additives in a high boiling organic solvent having a boiling point higher than about 1500C by optionally using low boiling and or water soluble organic solvents together, then emulsion dispersing the dissolved hydrophobic additives by using a surfactant in a hydrophilic binder such as aqueous gelatin solution with such means of dispersion as a stirrer, homogenizer, colloid mill, flow jet mixer or ultrasonic disperser, and thereafter adding the resulting dispersion into the hydrophilic colloidal layer. In that case, the step of removing the low boiling organic solvent after or simultaneously with dispersion may be added. The high boiling organic solvent is one having a boiling point higher than l500C that does not react with the oxidized product of a developing agent, such as a phenol derivative, phthalate ester, phosphate ester, citrate ester, benzoate ester, alkylamido, fatty acid ester or trimesic acid ester. Dispersion aids used in dissolving hydrophobic compounds in a low boiling solvent alone or mixed with a high boiling solvent and dispersing the dissolved hydrophobic compounds into water by using a mixer or ultrasonic disperser include anionic surfactants, nonionic surfactants and cationic surfactants. Anti color foggants may be used in order to prevent occurrence of color stain, deterioration of sharpness and coarse graininess due to moving of the oxidized product of a developing agent or the electron transporting agent between the emulsion layers the same colorsensitive layers and or different color sensitive layers of the color photographic material of the present invention. The anti color foggants may be incorporated in the emulsion layer itself or in the intermediate layer provided between adjacent emulsion layers. Image stabilizers can be incorporated in the color photographic material using silver halide emulsion layers of the present invention in order to prevent deterioration of color images. The hydrophilic colloidal layers such as protective layer and intermediate layer of the photographic material of the present invention may have incorporated thereinUV absorbers in order to prevent occurrence of fogging due to discharge resulting from the photographic material being charged by its friction or the like, or to prevent deterioration of images due to UV light. The color photographic material using a silver halide emulsion of the present invention can be provided with auxiliary layers such as filter layer, anti halation layer and or anti irradiation layer. These auxiliary layers and or the emulsion layers may have incorporated therein dyes flowing out of the color photographic material or being bleached during the color developing processing. Matting agents can be incorporated in the silver halide emulsion layers and or other hydrophilic colloidal layers of the silver halide photographic material using a silver halide emulsion of the present invention, with a view to reducing the surface gloss to render writing in pencil possible and to preventing adhesion of photographic materials to each other. The light sensitive material using the silver halide emulsion of the present invention may contain a lubricant that is capable of reducing its sliding friction. The light sensitive material may also contain an antistat for the purpose of preventing static buildup.The antistat may be incorporated in an antistatic layer on the side of the support where no emulsion layer is formed. Alternatively, the antistat may be incorporated in an emulsion layer and or a protective layer other than an emulsion layer which is on the side of the support where said emulsion layer is formed. Photographic emulsion layers and or other hydrophilic colloidal layers in the light sensitive material using the silver halide emulsion of the present invention may contain a variety of surfactants for attaining such purposes as improved coating property, prevention of antistatic buildup, improved slipping property, emulsification dispersion, antiblocking and improved photographic characteristics in terms of accelerated development, hard tone and sensitization. Photographic emulsion layers and other layers for making a light sensitive material using the silver halide emulsion of the present invention may be coated onto flexible reflecting supports such as paper or synthetic paper laminated with baryta layer or a olefin polymer, films made of semi synthetic or synthetic polymers such as cellulose acetate, cellulose nitrate, polystyrene, polyvinyl chloride, polyethylene terephtalate, polycarbonate and polyamide, and rigid materials such as glass, metals and ceramics. After optional surface treatment of the support by suitable techniques such as corona discharge, UV irradiation and flame treatment, the silver halide light sensitive material of the present invention may be coated onto the support either directly or with one or more subbing layers formed thereon. The subbing layers are provided for improving the adhesive strength, anti static property, dimensional stability, frictional resistance, hardness, anti halation property, frictional characteristics and or other characteristics of the surface of the support. A thickener may be used in order to facilitate the coating of the photographic material using the silver halide emulsion of the present invention. Particularly useful coating techniques are extrusion coating and curtain coating, both of which will enable simultaneous application of two or more layers. The light sensitive material of the present invention may be exposed to electromagnetic waves in the spectral region to which the emulsion layers that make up the light sensitive material have sensitivity. Any known light sources may be used and they include daylight sunshine , tungsten lamps, fluorescent lamps, mercury lamps, xenon arc lamps, carbon arc lamps, xenon flash lamps, CRT flying spot, light from a variety of lasers,LED emitted light, and light emitted from fluorescent materials upon excitation by electron beams, X rays, gamma rays or alpha rays. The exposure time may range from 1 millisecond to 1 second as is usually the case with cameras. Periods shorter than 1 microsecond, such as one ranging from 100 microseconds to 1 microsecond may be employed with CRTs or xenon flash lampls. Exposure longer than 1 second would also be possible. The exposure may be continuous or intermittent. The silver halide photographic material of the present invention may form an image by any techniques of color development that are known in the art.The color developer used to process this photographic material may contain any of the known aromatic primary amine color developing agents that are extensively used in various color photographic processes. Such developing agents include aminophenolic and p phenylenediamine derivatives. These compounds are generally used in salt forms, such as hydrochlorides or sulfates, which are stabler than the free state. These compounds are used in concentrations that generally range from about 0.1 to about 30 g, preferably from about 1 g to about 1.5 g per liter of the color developer. Illustrative aminophenolic developing agents include o aminophenol, p aminophenol, 5 amino 2 oxytoluene, 2amino 3 oxytoluene, and 2 oxy 3 amino 1,4 dimethylbenzene. Particularly useful primary aromatic amino color developing agents are N,N dialkyl p phenylenediamine compounds wherein the alkyl or phenyl group may have a suitable substituent. Among these compounds, the following are particularly advantageous N,N di ethyl p phenylenediamine hydrochloride, N methyl p phenylenediamine hydrochloride, N,N dimethyl p phenylenediamine hydrochloride, 2 amino S N ethyl N dodecylamino toluene, N ethyl N ss methanesulfonamidoethyl 3 methyl 4 aminoaniline sulfate, N ethyl N ss hydroxyethylaminoaniline, 4 amino 3 methylN,N diethylaniline, and 4 amino N 2 methoxyethyl Nethyl 3 methylaniline p toluene sulfonate. In addition to these primary aromatic amino color developing agents, the color developer used in the processing of the photographic material of the present invention may contain a variety of additives that are commonly incorporated in color developers and such additives include alkali agents e.g. sodium hydroxide, sodium carbonate and potassium carbonate , alkali metal sulfites, alkali metal bisulfites, alkali metal thiocyanates, alkali metal halides, benzyl alcohol, water softeners and thickeners.The pH of the color developer is usually at least 7 and most generally ranges from about 10 to about 13. After color development, the photographic material of the present invention is processed by a solution having the fixing ability. If this solution is a fixing bath, its use is preceded by a bleaching step.The bleaching agent used in the bleaching bath is a metal complex salt of an organic acid. This metal complex salt has the ability not only to oxidize metallic silver i.e., formed as a result of development into silver halide but also to ensure complete color formation by a color former. The structure of this metal complex salt is such that an organic acid such as an aminopolycarboxylic acid, oxalic acid or citric acid is coordinated to a metal ion such as iron, cobalt or copper. The organic acids most preferred for use in forming metal complex salts are polycarboxylic acids or aminopolycarboxylic acids.The polycarboxylic acids or aminopolycarboxylic acids may be in the form of alkali metal salts, ammonium salts or water soluble amine salts. Typical examples of polycarboxylic acids or aminopolycarboxylic acids are lited below 1 ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid 2 nitrilotriacetic acid 3 iminodiacetic acid 4 ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid disodium salt 5 ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid tetra trimethyl ammonium salt 6 ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid tetrasodium salt and 7 nitrilotriacetic acid sodium salt. In addition to metal complex salts of these organic acids which are used as bleaching agents, the bleaching bath used in processing the color photographic material of the present invention may contain a variety of additives, and preferred additives are rehalogenating agents such as alkali or ammonium halides e.g., potassium bromide, sodium bromide, sodium chloride and ammonium bromide , metal salts and chelating agents. Any other additives that are conventionally incorporated in bleaching baths may also be used and they include pH buffers e.g., borate, oxalate, acetate, carbonate and phosphate salts , alkylamines and polyethylene oxides. The fixing bath and bleach fixing bath may also contain one or more pH buffers that are selected from among sulfites e.g., ammonium sulfite, potassium sulfite, ammonium bisulfite, potassium bisulfite, sodium bisulfite, ammonium metabisulfite, potassium metabisulfite, and sodium metabisulfite , and a variety of acids or salts e.g., boric acid, borax, sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, sodium carbonate, potassium carbonate, sodium bicarbonate, sodium bisulfite, potassium bicarbonate, acetic acid, sodium acetate and ammonium hydroxide . If the photographic material of the present invention is processed in a bleach fixing bath as it is supplied with a blix replenisher, thiosulfates, thiocyanates, sulfites or other salts may be incorporated either in the bleach fixing bath or in the replenisher that is fed to said blix bath. In order to increase the activity of the bleachfixing bath used in processing the photographic material of the present invention, air or oxygen may be blown into a tank containing the bleach fixing bath or its replenisher. Alternatively, a suitable oxidant such as hydrogen peroxide, bromide or persulfate may be added into the tank. Advantages of the Invention Color photographic materials containing the magenta coupler of the present invention and a magenta dye image stabilizer represented by formula II are improved in the fastness of magenta dye images particularly against light, heat and humidity that is, the discoloration and fading of color against light as well as the occurrence of yellow stain in the background due to light, heat and humidity are satisfactorily prevented. The advantages of the present invention are hereunder described in greater detail by reference to working examples which are given here for illustrative purposes only and are by no means intended as limiting the invention. Example 1. Gelatin 15.0 mg 100 cm2 and comparative magenta coupler I 6.0 mg 100 cm2 were dissolved and dispersed in dibutyl phthalate 5.0 mg 100 cm2 together with 2,5 di tert octylhydroquinone 0.8 mug 100 cm . The dispersion was mixed with a silver chlorobromide emulsion containing 80 mol of silver bromide and the mixture was coated onto a paper support laminated with polyethylele on both surfaces, so as to provide 2 a silver deposit of 3.8 mug 100 cm2. The so formed emulsion layer was dried to prepare sample No. 1. To sample No. 1, a conventional magenta dye image stabilizer PH 13 was added in an amount equimolar to that of the magenta coupler, thereby preparing sampleNo. 2. Sample Nos. 3, 6 and 9 were prepared as in the case of sample No. 1 except that comparative magenta coupler I was replaced by A 5, A 7 and A 96, three of the triazole type magenta couplers defined in the present invention. Sample Nos. 4, 7 and 10 were prepared by modifying sample Nos. 3, 6 and 9 with PH 13 added in an amount equimolar to that of the magenta coupler. Sample Nos.5, 8 and 11 were prepared by modifying sample Nos.3, 6 and 9 with HI 3, a magenta dye image stabilizer within the scope of the invention, added in an amount equimolar to that of the magenta coupler. Comparative magenta coupler 1 EMI131.1 Each of the samples thus prepared was exposed through an optical wedge by the conventional method and subsequently processed by the following scheme. Steps Temperature, OC TimeColor development 33 3 min and 30 secBleach fixing 33 1 min and 30 secWashing 33 3 minDrying 50 80 2 min The processing solutions used had the following compositions.Color developer Benzyl alcohol 12 ml Diethylene glycol 10 ml Potassium carbonate 25 g Sodium bromide 0.6 g Anhydrous sodium sulfite 2.0 g Hydroxylamine sulfate 2.5 g N ethyl N ss methanesulfonamidoethyl 3 methyl 4 aminoaniline sulfate 4.5 g Water to make 1,000 ml pH adjusted to 10.2 with NaOH.Bleach fixing bath Ammonium thiosulfate 120 g Sodium metabisulfite 15 g Anhydrous sodium sulfite 3 g EDTA iron III ammonium salt 65 g Water to make 1,000 ml pH adjusted to 6.7 6.8. Each of the processed samples was placed under illumination in a xenon fadeometer for 8 days so as to examine the light fastness of the dye image and Y staining in the background. Another set of the processed samples were left for 14 days in a hot and humid atmosphere 600C x 80 RH so as to examine the resistance of the dye image to moisture and Y staining in the background.The results are shown in Table 1. The light fastness and moisture resistance of each sample were evaluated on the following bases.Residual dye The density of the dye remaining after each of the tests on light fastness and moisture resistance was indicated as a percentage of the initial density 1.0 .YS The density of Y stain before each test was subtracted from the value after testing.Discoloration The ratio of yellow density to magenta density as measured before testing for an initial density of 1.0 was subtracted from the value after testing.The greater the value obtained, the greater the discoloration from the pure magenta to a yellowish magenta color. Table 1 Moisture Light Fastness resistance Dye imageSample No. Coupler stabilizer Residual YS Discolora Residual YS dye tion dye 1 Compara Comparative 50 0.54 0.34 88 0.53 tive coupler 1 2 do do PH 13 79 0.51 0.27 89 0.56 3 do A 5 22 0.06 0.78 100 0.07 4 do do PH 13 70 0.11 0.74 102 0.08 5 Sample of do HI 3 75 0.05 0.16 104 0.07 the invention 6 Compara A 7 23 0.06 0.74 102 0.06 tive 7 do do PH 13 69 0.07 0.70 100 0.07 8 Sample of do HI 3 74 0.07 0.14 98 0.08 the invention 9 Compara do 15 0.08 0.88 100 0,09 10 do do PH 13 63 0.11 0.80 97 0.10 11 Sample of do HI 3 68 0.10 0.19 97 0.11 the invention As is clear from Table 1, Sample Nos. 3, 6 and 9, using the magenta couplers within the scope of the invention, were found through fastness to light and moisture tests to be highly resistant to Y staining as compared with sample No. 1 using the conventional four equivalent 3 anilino 1,2 pyrazolo 5 one type coupler. However, the results of the light fastness test with respect to residual dye and discoloration show that sample Nos.3, 6 and 9 discolored and faded quite easily upon exposure to light. Sample Nos. 4, 7 and 10 used the magenta couplers of the present invention in combination withPH 13, a conventional magenta dye image stabilizer.These samples exhibited an appreciable reduction in the fading of dye image resulting from exposure to light, but their resistance to discoloration was not improved at all. Sample Nos. 5, 8 and 11 using magenta couplers and a magenta dye image stabilizer, both in accordance with the present invention, experienced small degree of discoloration and fading upon exposure to light, heat and moisture, and the Y staining occurring in the background was negligible. These results were certainly unobtainable by sample No. 2 using the conventional fourequivalent 3 anilino 1,2 pyrazolo 5 one type magenta coupler and PH 13 conventional magenta dye image stabilizer . Example 2 Sample Nos. 12 27 were prepared as in Example 1 except that the combinations of magenta coupler and magenta dye image stabilizer were changed to those indicated inTable 2. These samples were processed as in Example 1 and subsequently tested for their light fastness and moisture resistance as in Example 1. The results are shown inTable 2. Comparative coupler 2 EMI136.1 Table 2 Light fastness MoistureSample No. Coupler Dye image resistance stabilizer Residual YS Discolora Residual YS dye tion dye 2 CamPara ComParatiVe HI 25 48 0.57 0.36 88 0.50 tive coupler 2 13 do do HI 44 46 0.54 0.34 87 0.58 14 do do PH 8 70 0.51 0.30 88 0.54 15 do do PH 10 71 0.55 0.29 86 0.50 16 do A 18 PH 8 63 0.13 0.88 100 0.09 17 do do PH 10 65 0.14 0.85 98 0.10 18 do A 56 PH 8 67 0.16 0.83 100 0.10 19 do do PH 10 68 0.15 0.81 97 0.11 20 Sample of A 18 HI 25 71 0.05 0.13 101 0.08 invention 21 do do HI 44 72 0.06 0.14 99 0.07 22 do A 56 HI 25 74 0.04 0.12 96 0.07 23 do do HI 44 75 0.05 0.14 98 0.09 24 do do HI 29 76 0.05 0.10 99 0.10 25 do do HI 25 78 0.08 0.19 99 0.09 PH 8 26 do do HI 25 80 0.10 0.18 100 0.08 PH 10 27 do do HI 25 80 0.09 0.19 100 0.08 PH 13 In Table 2, sample Nos. 25, 26 and 27 each used HI compound and PH compound at a molar ratio of 2 1, and the total amount of dye image stabilizers is equimolar to that of the magenta coupler used therein. As Table 2 clearly shows, sample Nos. 12 and 13 using the conventional four equivalent 3 anilino 5 pyrazolone type coupler in combination with magenta dye image stabilizers within the scope of the invention, and sampleNos. 16, 17, 18 and 19 using the combination of magenta couplers falling within the scope of the invention and commonly employed magenta dye image stabilizers were unable to give satisfactory results in all aspects of discoloration, fading and Y staining in the background in the light fastness test and Y staining in the moisture resistance test. The intended results were obtained only when the magenta couplers within the scope of the invention were combined with magenta dye image stabilizers within the scope of the invention. Sample Nos. 25, 26 and 27 using the coupler of the present invention in combination with a dye image stabilizer within the scope of the present invention and a conventional dye image stabilizer are clearly observed to be somewhat improved in discoloration in the light fastness test and to exhibit a synergistic effect in residual dye percentage. Example 3 A paper support laminated with polyethylene on both sides was coated with the following photographic layers in sequence, with the first layer blue sensitive silver halide emulsion layer positioned closest to the support.As a result, sample No. 28 of multi colored silver halide photographic material was obtained.First layer blue sensitive silver halide emulsion layer This layer was formed by coating 6.8 mg 100 cm2 of a pivaloyl 2,4 dioxo 1 benzylimidazolidin 3 yl 2 chloro 5 y 2,4 di t amylphenoxy butylamido ac yellow coupler , 3.2 mg 100 cm2, in terms of silver, of a bluesensitive silver chlorobromide emulsion 85 mol silver bromide , 3.5 mg 100 cm2 of dioctyl phthalate and 13.5 mg 100 cm2 of gelatin.Second layer intermediate layer This This layer was formed by coating 0.5 mg 100 cm of 2,5 di t octylhydroquinone, 0.5 mg 100 cm2 of dinonyl phthalate and 9.0 mg 100 cm2 of gelatin.Third layer green sensitive silver halide emulsion layer This layer was formed by coating 3.5 mg 100 cm2 of magenta coupler A 36 a magenta coupler included in the 2 scope of the invention , 2.5 mg 100 cm , in terms of silver, of a blue sensitive silver chlorobromide emulsion 2 80 mol silver bromide , 3.0 mg 100 cm of dioctyl phthalate and 12.0 mg 100 cm2 of gelatin.Fourth layer intermediate layer 2 This layer was formed by coating 7.0 mg 100 cm of 2 2 hydroxy 3 sec butyl 5 t butylphenyl benzOtriazole W absorber , 6.0 mg 100 cm2 of dibutyl phthalate, 0.5 mg 100 cm2 of 2,5 di t octylhydroquinone and 12.0 mg 100 cm2 of gelatin.Fifth layer red sensitive silver halide emulsion layer This layer was formed by coating 4.2 mg 100 cm2 of 2 a 2,4 di t pentylphenoxy butanamido 4,6 dichloro 5 ethylphenol, 3.5 mg 100 cm2 of tri 2 ethylhexyl phosphate and 11.5 mg 100 cm2 of gelatin.Sixth layer protective layer 2 This layer was formed by coating 8.0 mg 100 cm of gelatin. Sample Nos. 29 to 37 were prepared by modifying sampleNo. 28 with magenta dye image stabilizers of the present invention that were incorporated in the 3rd layer in the amounts indicated in Table 3. Sample Nos. 29 to 37 were processed as in Example 1 and subjected to a light fastness test under illumination in a xenon fedeometer for 15 days.The test results are shown in Table 3. Table 3EMI141.1 tb SEP Amount SEP of SEP Residual tb SEP Dye SEP image SEP stabilizer SEP magenta tb SEP Sample SEP No. SEP stabilizer SEP stabilizer SEP magenta tb mol cou SEP dye SEP d SEP e SEP tb SEP 28 SEP Compara SEP . SEP . SEP 21 tb SEP tive tb SEP 29 SEP HI 25 SEP 50 SEP 51 tb SEP 30 SEP do. SEP 100 SEP 61 tb SEP 0 tb 31 SEP 31 SEP do. SEP 150 SEP 80 tb SEP C tb SEP U tb 32 SEP 32 SEP HI 35 SEP 50 SEP 54 tb SEP C tb SEP W SEP 33 SEP do. SEP 100 SEP 63 tb SEP 34 SEP do. SEP 150 SEP 78 tb SEP LH tb SEP 0 tb SEP 35 SEP 35 SEP HI 45 SEP 50 SEP 46 tb SEP H tb 36 SEP 36 SEP do. SEP 100 SEP 60 tb SEP 37 SEP do. SEP 150 SEP 74 tb The data in Table 3 show that the magenta dye image stabilizers in accordance with the present invention are effective in stabilizing the dye image formed by the magenta coupler of the present invention and that this effectiveness is increased as the amounts in which these stabilizers are incorporated are increased.Sample Nos. 29 to 37 experienced a very small amount of discoloration in the magenta image as a result of exposure to light as compared with sample No. 28. Furthermore, these samples of the present invention suffered an ex tremely small degree of discoloration and fading in the magenta dye. Therefore, they struck a good color balance between yellow, cyan and magenta couplers and displayed a highly yellow, cyan and magenta couplers and displayed a highly satisfactory color reproduction. Example 4 2 Gelatin 15.0 mg 100 cm and magenta coupler 144 2 of the present invention 6.0 mg 100 cm2 were dispersed in tricresylphosphate together with 2,5 di tert octylhydroquinone 0.8 mg 100 cm2 . The dispersion was mixed with a silver chlorobromide emulsion containing 80 mol of silver bromide and the mixture was coated onto a paper support laminated with polyethylene on both surfaces, so as to provide a silver deposit of 3.8 mg 100 cm2.The so formed emulsion layer was dried to prepare sampleNo. 38. To sample No. 38, a magenta dye image stabilizer PH 13 was added in an amount equimolar to that of the magenta coupler, thereby preparing sample No. 39. Sample Nos. 42 and 46 were prepared as in the case of sample No. 38 except that magenta coupler A 144 was replaced by A 150 and A 168, two of the magenta couplers defined in the present invention. Sample Nos. 43 and 47 were prepared by modifying sample Nos. 42 and 46, respectively, with PH 13 added in an amount equimolar to that of the magenta coupler.Sample Nos. 40, 44 and 48 were prepared by modifying sample Nos. 39, 43 and 47 with HI 25, a magenta dye image stabilizer within the scope of the invention, in place of PH 13, added in an amount equimolar to that of the magenta coupler. Sample Nos. 41, 45 and 49 were prepared by modifying sample Nos. 39, 43 and 47 with PH 13 and HI 25 added at a ratio of 1 2 and in a total amount equimolar to that of the magenta coupler. Each of the samples thus prepared was exposed through an optical wedge by the conventional method and subsequently processed by the following scheme. Step Temperature, C TimeColor development 33 3 min and 30 secBleach fixing 33 1 min and 30 secWashing 33 3 minDrying 50 80 2 min. The processing solutions used had the following compositions.Color developer Benzyl alcohol 12 ml Diethylene glycol 10 ml Potassium carbonate 25 g Sodium bromide 0.6 g Anhydrous sodium sulfite 2.0 g Hydroxylamine sulfite 2.5 g N ethyl N ss methanesulfonamidoethyl 3 methyl 4 aminoaniline sulfate 4.5 g Water to make 1,000 ml pH adjusted to 10.2 with NaOHBleach fixing bath Ammonium thiosulfate 120 g Sodium metabisulfite 15 g Anhydrous sodium sulfite 3 g EDTA iron III ammonium salt 65 g Water to make 1,000 ml pH adjusted to 6.7 6.8. Each of the processed samples was placed under illumination in a xenon fadeometer for 12 days so as to examine the light fastness of the dye image. The results are shown in Table 4. The light fastness of each sample was evaluated on the following bases.Residual dye The density of the dye remaining after each of the tests on light fastness and moisture resistance was indicated as a percentage of the initial density 1.0 . Discoloration The ratio of yellow density to magenta density as measured before testing for an initial density of 1.0 was subtracted from the value after testing. The greater the value obtained, the greater the discoloration from the pure magenta to a yellowish magenta coupler. Table 4EMI145.1 tb SEP Sample SEP No. SEP Coupler SEP Dye SEP image SEP light SEP fastness tb SEP stabilizer SEP Residual SEP Disoolora SEP tb SEP magenta SEP dye SEP SEP tion tb 38 SEP Comparative SEP A 144 SEP SEP SEP 10 SEP 0.89 tb 39 SEP SEP do SEP SEP do SEP PH 13 SEP 60 SEP 0.83 tb 40 SEP Sample SEP of SEP the SEP do SEP HI 25 SEP 73 SEP 0.18 tb SEP invention tb 41 SEP SEP do SEP SEP do SEP PH 13 HI 25 SEP 79 SEP 0.22 tb 42 SEP Comparative SEP A 150 SEP SEP SEP 14 SEP 0.82 tb 43 SEP SEP do SEP SEP do SEP PH 13 SEP 61 SEP 0.79 tb 44 SEP Sample SEP of SEP the tb SEP invention SEP do SEP HI 25 SEP 78 SEP 0.16 tb 45 SEP SEP do SEP SEP do SEP PH 13 HI 25 SEP 82 SEP 0.18 tb 46 SEP Comparative SEP A 168 SEP 18 SEP 0.80 tb 47 SEP SEP do SEP SEP do SEP PH 13 SEP 64 SEP 0.72 tb 48 SEP Sample SEP of SEP the tb SEP invention SEP do SEP HI 25 SEP 82 SEP 0.13 tb 49 SEP SEP do SEP SEP do SEP PH 13 HI 25 SEP 84 SEP 0.16 tb As is clear from Table 4, the results of the light fastness test with respect to residual dye and discoloration show that sample Nos. 38, 42 and 46, using the couplers 144, 150 and 168 of the present invention but not using dye image stabilizers, discolored and faded quite easily upon exposure to light.Sample Nos. 39, 43 and 47 used the magenta couplers of the present invention in combination with PH 13, a conventional magenta dye image stabilizer. These samples exhibited an appreciable reduction in the fading of dye image resulting from exposure to light, but their resistance to discoloration was not improved at all. Sample Nos. 40, 44 and 48 using magenta couplers and a magenta dye image stabilizer, both in accordance with the present invention, experienced small degrees of discoloration and fading upon exposure to light. Sample Nos. 41, 45 and 49 prepared by using the magenta coupler and magenta dye image stabilizer of the present invention in combination with a conventional magenta dye image stabilizer were improved much in light fastness of the magenta dye images as compared with sample Nos. 40, 44 and 48. Example 5 A paper support laminated with polyethylene on both sides was coated with the following photographic layers in sequence from the support to obtain sample No. 50 of multi colored silver halide photographic material.First layer blue sensitive silver halide emulsion layer This layer was formed by coating 6.8 mg 100 cm2 of a pivaloyl a 2,4 dioxo 1 benzylimida olidin 3 yl 2 chloro 5 y 2,4 di t amylphenoxy butylamido acetanilide yellow coupler , 3.2 mg 100 cm2, in terms of silver, of a blue sensitive silver chlorobromide emulsion 85 2 mol silver bromide , 3.5 mg 100 cm of dibutyl phthalate and 13.5 mg 100 cm2 of gelatin.Second layer intermediate layer 2 This layer was formed by coating 0.5 mg 100 cm 2 of 2,5 di t octylhydroquinone, 0.5 mg 100 cm of dibutyl phthalate and 9.0 mg 100 cm2 of gelatin.Third layer green sensitive silver halide emulsion layer 2 This layer was formed by coating 3.5 mg 100 cm of magenta coupler 150 of the invention, 2.5 mg 100 cm2, in terms of silver, of a blue sensitive silver chlorobromide emulsion 80 mol silver bromide , 3.0 mg 100 cm2 of dibutyl phthalate and 12.0 mg 100 cm2 of gelatin.Fourth layer intermediate layer 2 This layer was formed by coating 7.0 mg 100 cm of 2 2 hydroxy 3 sec butyl 5 t butylphenyl benzotriazole W absorber , 6.0 mg 100 cm2 of dibutyl phthalate, 2 0.5 mg 100 cm of 2,5 di t octylhydroquinone and 12.0 mg 100 cm2 of gelatin.Fifth layer red sensitive silver halide emulsion layer 2 This layer was formed by coating 4.2 mg 100 cm of 2 0 2, 4 di t pentylphenoxy butanamido 4, 6 dichloro5 ethylphenol cyan coupler , 3.0 mg 100 cm2, in terms of silver, of red sensitive silver chlorobromide emulsion 80 mol silver bromide , 3.5 mg 100 cm2 of tricresyl phosphate and 11.5 mug 100 cm2 of gelatin.Sixth layer protective layer 2 This layer was formed by coating 8.0 mg 100 cm of gelatin. Sample Nos. 51 to 59 were prepared by modifying sample No. 50 with magenta dye image stabilizers of the present invention that were incorporated in the 3rd layer in the amounts indicated in Table 5. SampleNos. 51 to 59 were processed as in Example 4 and subjected to a light fastness test under illumination in a xenon fadeometer for 15 days. The test results are shown in Table 5. Table 5EMI149.1 tb Amount SEP of SEP Residual tb Sample SEP No. SEP Dye SEP image SEP stabilizer SEP magenta tb SEP stabilizer SEP mol coupler SEP dye SEP tb SEP tb SEP 50 SEP Compartive SEP SEP SEP 25 tb SEP 51 SEP Sample SEP of tb the SEP invention SEP HI 12 SEP 50 SEP 60 tb SEP 52 SEP do. SEP do. SEP 100 SEP 67 tb 53 SEP do. SEP do. SEP 150 SEP 80 tb 54 SEP do. SEP HI 25 SEP 50 SEP 62 tb 55 SEP do. SEP do. SEP 100 SEP 71 tb 56 SEP do. SEP do. SEP 150 SEP 86 tb 57 SEP do. SEP HI 29 SEP 50 SEP 59 tb 58 SEP do. SEP do. SEP 100 SEP 64 tb 59 SEP do. SEP do. SEP 150 SEP 81 tb The data in Table 5 show that the magenta dye image stabilizers in accordance with the present invention are effective in stabilizing the dye image formed by the magenta coupler of the present invention and that this effectiveness is increased as the amounts in which these stabilizers are incorporated are increased. Sample Nos.51 to 59, as compared with sample No. 50, experienced a very small amount of discoloration in the magenta image as a result of exposure to light. Furthermore, these samples of the present invention suffered an ex tremely small degree of discoloration and fading in the magenta dye, and even after the light fastness test, they struck a good color balance between yellow, cyan and magenta couplers and displayed a highly satisfactory color reproduction. Example 6 Sample Nos. 60 to 72 were prepared as in Example 1 except that the combinations of magenta coupler and magenta dye image stabilizer of the present invention were used as indicated in Table 6, wherein the magenta couplers were dispersed in tricresyl phosphate 8.0 mg 100 cm2 together with 2,5 di tert octyl hydroquinone 0.8 mg 100 cm . These samples were processed as in Example 1 and subsequently tested for their light fastness and moisture resistance as in Example 1 except that the processed samples were placed under illumination in a xenon fadeomater for 8 days in place of 10 days.The results are shown in Table 6. Table 6EMI151.1 tb SEP Light SEP fastness SEP moisture SEP tb SEP Dye SEP image tb Sample SEP No. SEP Coupler SEP stabilizer SEP Residual SEP YS SEP Discolora SEP Residual SEP YS tb dye SEP SEP tion SEP dye SEP tb 60 Sample SEP of SEP 209 SEP A 1 SEP 87 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.07 SEP 101 SEP 0.07 tb SEP the SEP in tb SEP vention tb 61 SEP do. SEP SEP 210 SEP A 1 SEP 86 SEP 0.06 SEP 0.10 SEP 99 SEP 0.07 tb 62 SEP do. SEP SEP 211 SEP SEP 84 SEP 0.06 SEP 0.09 SEP 100 SEP 0.08 tb 63 SEP do. SEP SEP 214 SEP HI 42 SEP 81 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 100 SEP 0.08 tb 64 SEP do. SEP SEP do. SEP HI 43 SEP 80 SEP 0.07 SEP 0.11 SEP 101 SEP 0.09 tb 65 SEP do. SEP SEP do. SEP HI 44 SEP 78 SEP 0.08 SEP 0.09 SEP 98 SEP 0.08 tb 66 SEP do. SEP SEP do. SEP HI 28 SEP 79 SEP 0.09 SEP 0.10 SEP 102 SEP 0.08 tb 67 SEP do. SEP SEP 217 SEP HI 42 SEP 82 SEP 0.06 SEP 0.09 SEP 97 SEP 0.07 tb 68 SEP do. SEP SEP do. SEP HI 43 SEP 80 SEP 0.08 SEP 0.10 SEP 103 SEP 0.08 tb 69 SEP do. SEP SEP do. SEP HI 44 SEP 77 SEP 0.09 SEP 0.11 SEP 100 SEP 0.09 tb 70 SEP do. SEP SEP do. SEP HI 35 SEP 72 SEP 0.09 SEP 0.13 SEP 98 SEP 0.09 tb 71 SEP do. SEP SEP do. SEP HI 30 SEP 79 SEP 0.07 SEP 0.08 SEP 100 SEP 0.08 tb 72 SEP do. SEP SEP do. SEP HI 45 SEP 81 SEP 0.07 SEP 0.09 SEP 102 SEP 0.08 tb