# TWO DIMENSIONAL OPTICAL INFORMATION PROCESSING APPARATUS

## Claims
Eine Flüssigkristallzelle, die eine Betriebs Bistabilität zeigt und eine smektische ferroelektrische I oder F

## Description
This invention relates to ferro electric smectic liquid crystal cells, and to optical information processing OIP apparatus incorporating such cells. The first types of liquid crystal display cell to be used as display devices employed nematic or cholesteric phases. Those that operated in field effect mode could typically be operated with signal strengths of a few volts, but when the exciting field was removed, the liquid crystal always relaxed back into the same state within a short period of time. Then our UK Patent Specification No. 1557199 described how an electrically addressable non volatile liquid crystal display can be provided. This employed a smectic A liquid crystal filling to provide bistability of operation. A drawback of this approach was that it required a significantly greater drive voltage. Later, in a paper entitled Submicrosecond bistable electro optic switching in liquid crystals by N.A. Clark and S.T. Lagerwall appearing in Applied Physics Letters Vol.36 No. 11 pp 889 901 June, 1980 , a bistable cell switchable with smaller voltages was described that employed a ferroelectric smectic C liquid crystal filling. The terms bistable and bistability are used here and elsewhere in this specification in relation to a situation in which a liquid crystal is electrically switchable between two latching states that are optically distinct on a macroscopic scale so that under appropriate illumination conditions, for instance by direct viewing or by viewing in position between appropriately oriented crossed polarisers, the cell is able of functioning as a display element electrically switchable between two latched conditions of contrasting appearance. An example of the use in OIP of a liquid crystal cell exhibiting bistability is given in EP A 153 147 published after the filing date of the present application which discloses the use in such applications of a matrix addressed smectic A filled cell or, for faster operation, one with a smectic C filling. In order to exhibit ferroelectricity, a smectic material must not only exist in an tilted smectic state such as Smectic C, I or F, but it must also be constituted by a material that is intrinsically chiral, or it must include a chiral constituent to provide chirality. For a definition of the ordering of the different smectic phases, reference may be made to the book entitled Smectic Liquid Crystals Textures and Structures by G.W. Gray and J.W. Goodby, published by Leonard Hill 1984 , and in particular to the diagrams appearing on page 153 of that book. According to convention chirality may be signified by an , and thus the material employed in the Clark and Lagerwall cell may be described as a C The chirality of a ferroelectric liquid crystal material in a C The Clark and Lagerwall paper previously referred to describes the bistable operation of a cell with a 1.5 µm thick layer of DOBAMBC or HOBACPC maintained in a C In a later paper entitled Ferroelectric Liquid Crystal Electro Optics Using the Surface Stabilised Structure appearing in Mol. Cryst. Liq. Cryst. 1983 Vol. 94 pp213 234 these authors, in collaboration with M.A. Handschy, report further about work undertaken with such cells, describes the bistability observed in a cell containing a 2 µm thick layer of C phase DOBAMBC, and in both C The validity of the theory that the suppression of helix formation is effective in providing bistability of operation has been investigated by ourselves and others. In our work with C In summary, for C The present invention is concerned with ferroelectric liquid crystal cells having liquid crystal layer thicknesses significantly in excess of 3 µm that do exhibit bistability. More particularly the present invention is concerned with the discovery that the behaviour of I and F According to the present invention there is provided a liquid crystal cell that exhibits bistability of operation, and has a smectic I or F phase ferroelectric liquid crystal layer confined between opposed electroded plates characterised in that the plates serve to define a liquid crystal layer with a thickness in the range from 4 to 40 µm, and in that their inward facing surfaces have been treated to promote planar alignment of the adjacent liquid crystal molecules in the same direction at each of these two surfaces. Generally, it is preferred to employ a liquid crystal layer thickness of less than 20 µm. In the following description of preferred embodiments of the invention, reference is made to the accompanying drawings in which A hermetically sealed envelope for liquid crystal layer is formed by securing together two glass sheets 11 and 12 with a perimeter seal 13. The inward facing surfaces of the two sheets carry transparent electrode layers 14 and 15 of indium tin oxide, and each of these electrode layers is covered within the display area defined by the perimeter seal with a polymer layer, such as polyimide not shown , provided for molecular alignment purposes. Both polyimide layers are rubbed in a single direction so that when a liquid crystal is brought into contact with them they will tend to promote planar alignment of the liquid crystal molecules in the direction of the rubbing. The cell is assembled with the rubbing directions aligned parallel with each other. The thickness of the liquid crystal layer contained within the resulting envelope is determined by the thickness of the perimeter seal, and control over the precision of this may be provided by a light scattering of short lengths of glass fibre not shown of uniform diameter distributed through the material of the perimeter seal. Conveniently the cell is filled by applying a vacuum to an aperture not shown through one of the glass sheets in one corner of the area enclosed by the perimeter seal so as to cause the liquid crystal medium to enter the cell by way of another aperture not shown located in the diagonally opposite corner. Subsequent to the filling operation the two apertures are sealed. The filling operation is carried out with the filling material heated into its isotropic phase so as to reduce its viscosity to a suitably low value. It will be noted that the basic construction of the cell is similar to that of for instance a conventional twisted nematic, except of course for the parallel alignment of the rubbing directions. For one example the liquid crystal filling of a 10.7 µm thickness cell was the chiral ester this material being marketed by BDH under the designation CE8. When heating this material from the crystalline state the following transition temperatures were noted When, after filling, the cell was slowly cooled the planar alignment inducing nature of the rubbed polyimide surfaces caused the alignment of the smectic layers formed on entering the smectic A phase to be in planes normal to the rubbing direction, and hence perpendicular to the planes of the major surfaces of the liquid crystal layer. This alignment of the smectic layers was maintained as the liquid cooled into the smectic C phase even though the orientations of the molecules within those smectic layers changed upon entering the C phase. At this stage pitch lines could be observed. This indicated that the cell was too thick for unwinding the helix solely by surface effects. This was to be expected since the liquid crystal layer thickness was considerably greater than the helix pitch about 2 µm for this material in the C phase . A slight change of scale in the pitch lines c. 10 was observed when, upon further cooling, the filling entered the I phase. With the cell maintained at a temperature of 69.8 A third cell was then constructed with a spacing of about 30 µm. In this instance there was not true bistability, and noticeable relaxation effects could be observed within a few seconds of pulsing. It is believed that this results because the liquid crystal layer is now so thick that the alignment of the smectic layers in planes at right angles to the confining surfaces is no longer adequately enforced throughout the layer thickness. It is similarly believed that the extinction of bistability which is observed in the material when in the smectic C phase that is observed when the cell thickness is expanded beyond a limit in the region of 3 µm is attributable to the same cause, the smaller thickness limit necessary for securing planar alignment of the smectic layers being occasioned by the absence of the hexatic structure of the material when in the C phase. It is to be clearly understood that the specific smectic I material exemplified is not held out to be an optimised material for OIP applications. By suitable admixture of other materials the temperature range of the I phase can be shifted and extended. Furthermore, the switching efficiency can be improved by the incorporation of material with a higher polarisation than that of CE8. By way of example a fourth cell with a 40 µm liquid crystal layer thickness filled with non chiral racemic CE8 to which had been added approximately 6 wt of a chiral ester providing increased polarisation, and also a longer pitch, is still not too thick to exhibit bistability of operation. Such additives must leave the mixture in the I or F phase at the working temperature, but do not individually have to exhibit either of those phases. By way of further example tests were also carried out on a cell containing the alternative ferroelectric hexatic smectic phase, smectic F . For this purpose material known to exhibit an F phase from a paper by P.A.C. Gane et al appearing in Mol. Cryst. Liq. Cryst. 1983, Vol. 100, pp 67 to 74 was rendered ferroelectric by the admixture of a chiral ester dopant. The resulting mixture comprised 20.8 wt HEPTOBPD bis 4 n heptyloxybenzylidene 1,4 phenylenediamine , 79.2 wt TBBA terephthalylidene bis n butyl aniline , and 6.1 wt chiral ester dopant. This mixture exhibits an F phase from 110 The ability to construct relatively fast switching bistable cells with a liquid crystal layer thickness significantly greater than 3 µm is advantageous because it means that much of the technology previously developed for other types of cell, such as twisted nematic and phase change cells, can now be expected to be applied with little modification to the manufacture of these cells whereas rather more significant changes would likely to be required if the thickness range developed for those other types of cell had to be substantially reduced to bring the thickness beneath the 3 µm threshold. Attention is now turned to illustrative two dimensional OIP applications for cells of the general type described above. One form in which such cells may be used for two dimensional OIP is for the creation of a two dimension array of pixels. For a transmission type multiplexed matrix addressed cell, the cell construction can be substantially as previously described with reference to Figure 1. Transparent electrode layer 14 consists of a finely spaced set of rows or columns, while electrode layer 15 consists of a similar set extending in the orthogonal direction. Typically, with a view to obtaining the maximum information density, the electrode rows and columns are made as narrow as conveniently possible, and similarly the inter row and inter column electrode spacings are also made as narrow as possible. If the satisfying of these criteria means that the inter pixel spacings are not significantly smaller than the widths of the pixels themselves, then it will generally be preferred to arrange for the inter row and inter column electrode spacings to be occupied by opaque material so that the modulated light, that is the light that passes through the pixels, is not swamped by the unmodulated light that would otherwise be able to pass through the areas between neighbouring pixels. Remembering that a ferroelectric cell is sensitive to the direction of an applied electric field, many types of matrix addressing systems developed for use with other types of liquid crystal mode devices will not be suitable for this application. One type of addressing scheme which does take account of this polarisation direction sensitivity, and which is thus suitable for these cells is based on the use of bipolar pulses, and is described in the United Kingdom Patent Specification No. GB A 2146473 to which attention is directed. For a reflex type multiplexed matrix addressed cell, in which a specular reflector is located behind the liquid crystal layer, the cell construction can incorporate an active silicon single crystal slice to replace the transparent rear sheet of a transmission type device. Such a sheet carries an array of metal pads whose members are connected with the drains of an associated array of FET s formed in the silicon, this array of FET s being accessed on a co ordinate basis. The pixels of the cell are defined by the regions of the liquid crystal layer that lie between these pads and a transparent counter electrode carried on the inward facing surface of the transparent front sheet of the cell. Specular reflection at the rear of the liquid crystal layer is required over the areas registering with the pixels, and in some circumstances this may be provided by the reflective properties of the metal pads, but if the flatness is not adequate, then the whole surface may be coated with dielectric material to improve the flatness, and then a multilayer interference filter type reflector is deposited on top of that. Since the device works in reflective mode, the front sheet of the cell needs to be made of good optical quality glass and should be provided with an anti reflection coating on its front surface. Linear arrays of pixels, rather than two dimensional arrays, can also be used for two dimensional OIP, for instance by having two linear arrays with one arranged side by side in the input plane and, in the Fourier transform plane, some means for recording the interference patterns of their Fourier transforms. A linear array can have a construction similar to the two dimensional array, with the difference that, instead of having a set of column electrodes facing the row electrodes, the row electrodes are faced by a single large area counter electrode. When particularly fine resolution is required the problem may arise of accessing the individual electrodes. One way of easing this problem is to employ a two dimensional accessing for a one dimensional pixel array. An example of such a system is illustrated in Figure 4. The sheet on one side of the liquid crystal layer carries a set of substantially rectangular transparent electrodes 40 which extend widthwise across the cell and are provided with terminal pads 41 and connecting links 42. The sheet on the other side of the liquid crystal layer carries a set of serpentine transparent electrodes 43 with terminal pads 44. In this instance four electrodes 43 are depicted. All the members of each loop register with each one of the rectangles 40 to define overlapping areas, the pixels, having the form of a regular array of uniformly spaced straight strips. The additional areas of overlap, where the connecting links 42 are overlapped by the serpentine electrodes 43, can conveniently be masked out with opaque matter if they prove a nuisance. The binary electro optic effect provided by these cells, whether they incorporate linear or two dimensional pixel arrays, can be employed in a unipolar mode, a bipolar mode, or a guest dyed unipolar mode. In unipolar mode operation a transmission type cell is irradiated with an extended wavefront of linearly polarised coherent monochromatic light. The cell is arranged in relation to this polarisation plane so that in one of the cell states the liquid crystal director lies in that plane. The light transmitted by the cell then passes through a polarisation analyser, which is set with its polarisation plane in crossed relationship with the plane of polarisation of the light incident upon the cell. The birefringence and thickness of the liquid crystal layer within the cell are chosen so that it will function as a half wave retardation plate. The effect of energising of the cell is to rotate the fast axis of this half wave plate through the angle between the two director states of the cell. Preferably, by choice of composition of the cell, this angle is chosen to be near 45 In the bipolar mode a similar arrangement applies, but with the difference that in this instance the plane of polarisation of the incident light bisects the angle between the two directors. Under these circumstances switching produces a 180 These unipolar and the bipolar modes of operation can readily be adapted for use with reflex type cells instead of transmission type ones. This involves dispensing with the polarisation analyser, and instead directing the incident light on to the cell via a polarisation beam splitter. The analyser is also dispensed with in the unipolar mode if a guest pleochroic dye is incorporated into the liquid crystal to give a guest dyed unipolar mode. If the cell is of the reflex type, the beam splitter is not a polarisation beam splitter, but is of conventional construction not intended to be polarisation sensitive. Figures 5 and 6 depict respectively schematic representations of a joint transform correlator and of a frequency plane correlator which employ ferroelectric liquid crystal cells. In the case of the joint transform correlator of Figure 5, plane polarised light from a laser 50 is beam expanded at 51 and directed on to a pair of reflex type I or F ferroelectric cells 52 via a polarisation beam splitter 53. One of the cells 52 carries the object data for correlation with the scene data carried by the other cell. A first Fourier transform lens 54 collects the reflected light and directs it to interfere in the Fourier transform plane where is located a recording device 55. For real time correlation this may be for instance a bismuth silicon oxide detector. This recording device is interrogated with light from a second laser 56. Diffracted light is collected by a second Fourier transform lens 57 and directed to a photodetector 58 positioned in the Fourier transform plane. The resulting output from the detector is fed to a processing unit 59 for utilisation. In the case of the frequency plane correlator of Figure 6, plane polarised light from a laser 60 is beam expanded at 61 and directed on to a single reflex type I or F ferroelectric cell 62 via a polarisation beam splitter 63. A first Fourier transform lens 64 collects the reflected light and directs it to a recording device 65 positioned in the Fourier transform plane where it is interferred with a collimated reference beam 66. A second Fourier transform lens 67 is positioned to collect light that has been reflected by the cell 62 now programmed with alternative information, this light being such as to act on the stored information of the recording device to reconstruct the reference beam if there is correlation between the alternative information content of cell 62 and its original information content. This light collected by lens 67 is directed to a photodetector positioned in the correlation plane. Minor modifications to the correlators of Figures 5 and 6 are of course necessary to adapt them for use with transmission type cells rather than reflex type ones.