# Cartridge.

## Abstract
A cartridge, in particular a blank cartridge and a cartridge for signal light pistols, which comprises a casing 1, 12 formed by one integral plastic body, which comprises a chamber 5, 16 for the primer 8, 18 and a chamber 4, 15 for the firing charge 17 and the luminous mass capsule 20 , which chambers are separated by a transverse wall 11, 22 perforated with open ings.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A cartridge, which comprises a casing 1, 12 , of which the housing portion 2, 13 is of plastic, a primer 8, 18 and a firing charge 7, 17 , which casing comprises a chamber 4, 15 for the firing charge 7, 17 and a chamber 5, 15 for the primer 8, 18 , characterized in that the entire casing 1, 12 including the base portion 3, 14 is formed by one integral plastic body. 2. A cartridge according to claim 1, characterized in that a transverse wall 11, 22 perforated with openings is provided between the primer chamber 6, 16 and the firing charge chamber 4, 15 . 3. A cartridge according to either claim 1 or 2, characterized in that there is a support ring 9, 19 in the primer 8, 18 and that there is a corresponding support surface for receiving the support ring in the base 3, 14 of the casing. 4. A cartridge according to any of claims 1 3, characterized in that the casing 1, 12 is of polythene. 5. A cartridge according to any of claims 1 4, characterized in that it is a blank cartridge. 6. A cartridge according to claim 5, characterized in that the end of the casing 1 is closed, e.g. by welding. 7. A cartridge according to claim 5, characterized in that it comprises a non metallic bullet 10 attached to the end of the casing 1 . 8. A cartridge according to any of claims 1 4, characterized in that it is a cartridge for signal light pistols. 9. A cartridge according to claim 8, characterized in that it comprises a luminous mass capsule 20 adapted into the casing 12 . 10. A cartridge according to claim 9, characterized in that it comprises in addition a plug 21 adapted to the end of the casing 12 for retaining the luminous mass capsule 20 within the casing.

## Description
CARTRIDGEThis invention relates to a cartridge, in particular a blank cartridge and a cartridge for signal light pistols, comprising a plastic casing, a primer and a firing charge, which casing has two chambers, of which one is intended for the firing charge and the other for the primer.The Finnish Patent Specification 28393 discloses blank cartridges of the type described above, having a separate casing base of metal, attached to the tubular rear portion of the plastic casing of which the forward end is closed.In the metallic base portion an annular groove forextract ing the casing from the firearm pipe is provided. Owing to said structure such a blank cartridge is durable, however it has the disadvantage of relatively high production costs as a result of the separate base.The Finnish Patent Application 34 71 discloses a cartridge, which comprises a plastic casing, which is divided by a transverse wall perforated with openings into two chambers, of which one is intended for the firing charge and the other for the primer. To the forward portion of the plastic casing a metal bullet has been attached, which proves that this cartridge is intended to be used in shooting with ball cartridges. In addition, this cartridge comprises as an essential part a metal ring, which encircles the rear portion of the plastic casing and thus makes it sufficiently firm.The purpose of this invention is to achieve a cartridge with a simpler structure than before, in particular a blank cartridge and a cartridge for signal light pistols which also fulfils the requirements on cartridges with regard to durability and other properties. The characteristics of the invention are specified in the claims.According to one preferred embodiment of the present invention a blank cartridge is accomplished, which comprises an elongated casing manufactured of a plastic material like polythene, in which there are two chambers, of which one is intended for the firing charge and the other for the primer, and between the chambers there is a transverse wall perforated with openings. The end of the casing is then either closed, e.g. by welding, or a non metallic bullet has been adapted to its end.According to a particularly advantageous feature, the rearward portion of the primer is encircled by a support ring, whereby a corresponding cylindrical cavity is provided at the base of the casing for receiving the support ring. Owing to this structure the primer is firmly lodged in the casing and the support ring makes the base portion of the casing extra durable and prevents it from breaking in the extracting stage.According to another advantageous embodiment of the present invention a cartridge for signal light pistols is accomplished, which comprises a cylindrical casing made of a plastic material like polythene, which comprises a first chamber for the primer, and a second chamber for the firing charge, which chambers are separated by a transverse wall perforated with openings, and a third chamber for the luminous mass capsule. The end of the casing is advantageously closed by a separate plug for retaining the luminous mass capsule within the casing.The invention is described more in detail below referring to the enclosed drawing, in which Figure 1 represents a longitudinal section of a blank cartridge according to the invention Figure 2 represents a longitudinal section of another blank cartridge according to the invention andFigure 3 represents a longitudinal section of a cartridge for signal light pistols according to the invention.In Figure 1 the casing of the blank cartridge has been marked with reference numeral 1. The casing 1 comprises the tubular housing portion 2 of which the end is closed and the base portion 3, in which there is an annular groove 6 for extracting the casing from the pipe of the firearm.The casing 1 is divided by the transverse wall 11 into two chambers 4 and 5, of which the forward chamber 4 is filled with the powder charge. The rearward cylindrical chamber 5 is intended for the primer 8, in which there is a small amount of percussion responsive explosive substance. The transverse wall 11 has an opening, which acts as a flue between the chambers 4 and 5. The entire casing, including the housing portion 2, the base portion 3 and the transverse wall 11 is formed by one integral plastic body, which advantageously is of polythene. Other polymers can evidently also be used.In the primer 8 there is a flange portion i.e. a support ring 9 and in the base 3 of the casing there is a corresponding annular cavity for receiving the support ring 9.As a result of this structure the primer 8 is firmly lodged within the chamber 5 and at the same time the support ring 9 makes the base portion 5 of the casing extra solid and prevents it from breaking in the extracting stage of the casing. The blank cartridge illustrated in Figure 2 corresponds to the blank cartridge illustrated in Figure 1, excluding the fact that the forward portion of its tubular housing part 2 is open. A bullet, which is of either tree, plastic or some other corresponding material, is attached to the open end of the casing 1. The pipe muzzle of the firearm then has to be provided with a bullet crusher in order to avoid accidents.The assembly of the blank cartridges according to the invention is advantageously accomplished as follows.A casing, which has an open end, i.e. a casing having the shape illustrated in Figure 2, is used. First, the primer 8 is inserted in the cylindrical chamber 5, then the chamber 4 is filled with the powder charge 7 and finally the end of the cartridge is either closed, e.g. by ultrasonic welding Figure 1 or then the bullet is attached to it Figure 2 .In Figure 3 the casing of the cartridge for signal light pistols is indicated by the numeral 12. The casing 12 comprises a cylindrical housing part 13 with an open end, to which has been adapted a luminous mass capsule 20, and the base section 14. The base section 14 of the casing comprises the cylindrical chamber 16, which is intended for the primer 18, in which there is a small amount of percussion responsive explosive substance. The casing comprises a second chamber 15, which is filled with the firing charge 17. Between chambers 15 and 16 there is the transverse wall 22, which has an opening, which acts as a flue between the chambers. The entire casing including the housing section 13, the base section 14 and the transverse walls 22 is formed by one integral plastic body, which advantageously is of polythene. Evidently other polymers can be used as well. At the end of the casing there is a plug 21 for retaining the luminous mass capsule 20 within the casing.The primer 18 has a flange section i.e. a support ring 19 and in the base 14 of the casing a corresponding circular cavity is provided for receiving the support ring 19. As a result of this structure the primer 18 is firmly lodged in the chamber 16.The assembly of the cartridge of the signal light pistol according to the invention is advantageously accomplished by inserting the primer 18 into the cylindrical chamber 16, after which the luminous mass capsule 20 is inserted in the casing and finally the end of the casing is closed by the plug 21.