# Aromatic polymer composition.

## Abstract
An aromatic polymer composition comprises a polyaryletherketone and talc. The polyaryletherketone can be polyaryletheretherketone. The composition can be obtained by blending together the aromatic polymer and the talc. The blend can be used for the production of bearings or bearing liners.

## Claims
Claims 1. A polymer composition comprising a mixture of a polyaryletherketone with talc. 2. A composition as claimed in claim 1 which also includes at least one further component which is a stabiliser, an inorganic or organic fibre or an inorganic or organic filler. 3. A composition as claimed in either claim 1 or claim 2 whetein the proportion of talc plus any further components is at least 1 , and does not exceed 70 , by weight of the composition. 4. A composition as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3 which contains from 5 up to 30 by weight of talc relative to the total weight of the composition. 5. A composition as claimed in claim 1 which consists essentially of a polyaryletherketone and talc. 6. A composition as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 whereof the polyaryletherketone component is a polymer which contains the repeat unitsEMI14.1 or the repeat unitsEMI14.2 alone or in conjunction with each other and or in conjunction with other repeat units. 7. A composition as claimed in any one of claims I to 6 wherein the talc has a number average particle size of not more than 30 micrometres. 8. A process for the production of a polymer composition which comprises mixing a polyaryletherketone with talc. 9. A process as claimed in claim 8 wherein the materials are mixed together using a powder blending technique and the powder blend is extruded. 10. A plain bearing formed from a polymer composition, or comprising a metal backing having a lining formed from a polymer composition, wherein the polymer composition is as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 7.

## Description
Aromatic Polymer Composition The present invention relates to polymer compositions based on aromatic polymers, and the production and use of such compositions. Polymeric materials are now extensively used for many purposes and in recent years polymers have become available which have high melting or softening points which make them suitable for use at higher temperatures than are attainable using the longer established polymeric materials. Aromatic polymers, for example the polyaryletherketones, are examples of such polymers which, in addition to having high service temperatures have other desirable properties such as electrical insulation characteristics.Polyaryletherketones have good electrical insulating properties and high melting or softening temperatures and some polymers of this type can be used as an electrical insulator continuously at temperatures in excess of 200 C, for example up to about 250 C. However it will be appreciated that the period of use at elevated temperature is dependent on the temperature and decreases as the temperature is increased. Polyetherketones also have properties which have resulted in proposals to use the polymer in bearing applications. However a lower coefficient of friction and an increased resistance to wear are desirable for such applications. According to the present invention there is provided a polymer composition which comprises a mixture of a polyaryletherketone with talc. The composition may include other components which are suitable for incorporation into a polyaryletherketone. Such other components include, for example, inorganic and organic fibrous fillers such as glass fibre, carbon fibre, and poly paraphenylene terephthalamide fibre organic and inorganic fillers such as polytetrafluoroethylene, graphite, mica and vermiculite and stabilisers such as phosphates. It is preferred that the total proportion of additives including talc is at least 1X, and does not exceed 70 , by weight of the composition and especially does not exceed 50 by weight of the composition. The composition preferably contains from 5 up to of the composition. The composition preferably contains from 5 up to 30X by weight of talc relative to the total weight of the composition.Compositions in accordance with the present invention include compositions consisting essentially of 70 95 by weight of the polyaryletherkeone and correspondingly 30 to 5 by weight of talc. The polyaryletherketone may be a polymer which contains the rePeat unitsEMI2.1 or the repeat unitsEMI2.2 alone or in conjunction with each other and or in conjunction with other repeat units. The other repeat units which may be present in the the polyaryletherketone are typically of the general formulaEMI2.3 whereinA is a direct link, a sulphur atom, a divalent hydrocarbon radical or a group . EMI2.4 in whichQ is CO , SO or 0 1 2Q is CO , SO or 0 2Ar is a divalent aromatic radical and n is O, 1, 2 or 3. In the formula III, if the group A is a divalent hydrocarbon radical it is typically a phenyitene group or a dimethylmethylene group C CH 2 . The aromatic radical Ar is preferably a divalent 32 aromatic radical selected from phenylene, biphenylylene or terphenylylene. In the formula III, if the group A is Q Ar Ql n, it is preferred that the groups Q are such that, in the polyaryletherketone, the groups S02 amount to no more than 25 of the total of the groups CO and S02 . We prefer that the polyaryletherketone is a crystalline polymer containing the repeat units I. Especially preferred are such polymers which are tough and have an inherent viscosity of at least 0.7, as is described in more detail in our European Patent PublicationNo 001 879. Inherent viscosity is measured at 250C on a solution of 3 the polymer in concentrated sulphuric acid of density 1.84g cm said solution containing O.lg of polymer per 100cm of solution. As an alternative to inherent viscosity, an indication of the average molecular weight of the polymer may be obtained by measuring the melt viscosity of the polymer. Preferred polymers have a melt viscosity of 2 at least 0.1 KNs m , which corresponds approximately to an inherent viscosity of 0.7.The melt viscosity is measured using a ram extruder fitted with a 3.175x0.5mm die and operating at 4000C and a shear rate 1 of 1oohs The talc preferably has a number average particle size of not more than 30 micrometres and especially not more than 20 micrometres. Preferably at least 90 of the talc particles by number have a particle size of less than 30 micrometres. The polymer composition may be made by admixture of the two components plus any additional optional components in a suitable mixing machine to effect particle or melt blending. More specifically the polyaryletherketone and talc, in the form of dry powders, can be mixed together using a suitable powder blending technique such as tumble blending or a high speed mixer. The blend thus obtained may be extruded into a lace which is chopped to give granules. The granules can be used to produce shaped articles by the use of a suitable forming operation, for example injection moulding or extrusion, to give a shaped article. Compared to the polymer alone, or a blend of the polymer and the same proportion by weight of poly tetrafluorethylene, the compositions of the present invention have been found to have a lower coefficient of friction and a higher limiting PV value as defined inNotes to Table One at high speeds andior at elevated temperature.Such a combination of properties makes the composition suitable for use in bearing applications. Thus, the polymer compositions may be used as a bearing or as a bearing liner. Thus, as a further aspect of the present invention there is provided a plain bearing formed of a polymer composition as herein described or comprising a metal backing having a lining formed of a polymer composition as herein described. If the composition is used to form a plain bearing this may be done by injection moulding the composition into the bearing.Alternatively, the composition may be extruded into the form of a rod, the centre of which is machined out to form the bearing. The composition may also be used as a bearing liner on a metal backing. The metal backing may be any suitable metal such as, for example, aluminium alloy or steel with a suitable surface layer to assist in bonding the lining to the backing. The lining may be a thick coating of 0.75 to 35mm in thickness but may be an overlay, for example of 10 to 30 micrometres, applied to a metal bearing lining.The polymer composition is preferably applied to the metal backing as a sheet. The polymer composition may be extruded to form a sheet and the sheet issuing from the extruder then bonded to the metal backing as a second stage of a single operation. Alternatively, a preformed sheet of the polymer composition is presssure bonded or roll bonded to a heated metal backing. The temperature of bonding the polymer composition to the metal backing is preferably sufficiently high that the composition can flow under the conditions of bonding to the backing and typically the temperature is at least 350 C. The coated backing is preferably allowed to cool slowly from the temperature of bonding to ambient temperature to permit the polyaryletherketone component of the polymeric composition to attain a high crystallinity, for example at least 30 . The composition of the present invention is more isotropic than a fibre reinforced material and this facilitates bearing design when using such compositions. The polymer composition may be used as an insulating layer for an electrical conductor or as a sheath for one or more insulated conductors. If desired, the polymer composition can be used both as the insulating layer and the outer sheath. The formation of an insulating layer or an outer sheath can be effected using standard wire coating conditions, with the exception that the extruder is operated at a higher temperature than is usual with most plastics materials, for example at a barrel temperature of at least 340 C, and preferably with a die temperature of at least 375 C, which may be in excess of 400 C. The polymer composition. also has improved burning characteristics compared to the polymer alone. More specifically, the polymer composition has a higher oxygen index compared to the polymer alone. The present invention is illustrated by the following examples and test results. Example 1 Talc obtained from MacFarlane and Robson Limited, Hedgefield House, Blaydon on Tyne, Tyne and Wear, Great Britain and having a number average particle size of 3.7 micrometres and polyetheretherketone Victrex Registered Trade Mark PEEK aromatic polymer 450 P grade, obtainable from Imperial Chemical Industries PLC were dry mixed by tumble blending for 15 minutes in the proportions of 15 by weight of talc and 85 by weight of polyetheretherketone. The blend was then formed into granules by extrusion into a lace which was cooled by passing into a water bath and the lace was then cut to form granules. The extrusion was effected using a single screw Plaston extruder having a 3.8cm diameter screw with a length to diameter ratio of 24 1 and having the following temperature profile from the hopper end to the die 345 C, 360 C, 365 C, 3700C and 3800C. The die was of 5 mm diameter and the extruder was operated at a rate of about 5kg hour. Injection moulded discs 11.4 cm diameter and 3.2 mm thick were obtained from the granules using an Arburg Allrounder 220 90 350 injection moulding machine which was operated at 3800C with a mould at about 1500C and ejecting the moulded discs into the air. Tensile bars 178 mm long, 19 mm at both ends , narrowing to 13 mm, wide and 3 mm thick were also obtained by injection moulding, using the same moulding conditions as for the discs. Test specimens of about lOmm x lOmm x 3.0 0.5 mm in size, cut from the injection moulded discs, were subjected to tribological testing. The test results are set out in Tables One to Four. Example 2 The. procedure of Example 1 was repeated using talc obtained from Baker Sullivan, 253 Cranbrook Road, Ilford, Essex IG1 4TQ, gradeHAICHEN 325 having a number average particle size ofsapproximately 15 sicrometres. Injection moulded discs, and tensile bars, both as described in Example 1, were obtained from the composition formed using the injection moulding conditions of Example 1. Test specimens, as in Example 1, were subjected to tribological testing. The test results are set out in Tables One toFour. TABLE ONEEMI6.1 tb SEP Sample SEP Load SEP LPV SEP CF SEP Wear tb SEP a SEP kg SEP Rate tb SEP b tb SEP b c SEP b d e SEP b f SEP h SEP t SEP tb PEEK SEP 8 SEP 1500 SEP 0.51 SEP 150 SEP 300 tb PEEK SEP SEP PTFE SEP 1 SEP SEP 12 SEP 2270 SEP 0.27 SEP NM SEP 180 tb Eg SEP 1 SEP 40 SEP 7 SEP 9770 SEP 0.08 SEP 85 SEP 70 tb Eg SEP 2 SEP 40 SEP 7 SEP 8740 SEP 0.06 SEP 50 SEP 88 tb Notes to Table One a PEEK is polyetherketone Victrex Registered TradeMark , PEEK aromatic polymer, 450 G grade, obtainable from Imperial Chesical Industries PLC . PEEK PTFE is a composition of polyetheretherketone Victrex PEEK aromatic polymer, 450 G grade and polytetrafluoroethylene Fluon Registered Trade Mark L169 lubricant grade polytetrafluoroethylene powder containing 15 by weight of polytetrafluoroethylene and obtained by a method as described for the production of PEEK talc in Example 1. Eg 1 is the blend of PEEK talc obtained as described inExample 1. Eg 2 is the blend of PEEK talc obtained as described inExample 2. b Tribological data was obtained using an Amsler WearTest Machine operating in a pad on ring configuration. The pads were the test specimens of lOmmxlOmmx3.0 t.5 mm described previously.The ring was 60mm in diameter and 6mm wide and was formed of EN8 steel ground to a surface finish of 0.3 to 0.4 micrometers Ra. The ring was rotated to give a surface speed of 600 feet minute 182.9 metres minute . The test specimen was run in for 10 minutes under a 3 kg load and for a further 10 minutes under a 5 kg load. The load was then increased in increments of about 5 kg and each load was maintained for 0.5 hour. The load was increased up to a maximum of 40 kg or until one of the failure criteria was exceeded. The failure criteria are catastrophic that is rapid increase in wear, friction or temperature. Tests were carried out at 2000C. c Maximum test load reached before failure. d Limiting value of PV Pressure X Velocity is calculated by dividing load in kg by actual area of contact wear scar area 2 in cm and multiplying result by surface speed in m minute . e indicates that the sample did not fail. The maximum load was maintained for 200 minutes without failure. f CF is the coefficient of friction and is the average of the coefficient of friction at the load giving the limiting value ofPV and the coefficient of friction at half the load which gives the limiting value of PV. The coefficient of friction was measured continuously. h Wear rate up to half the load which gives the limiting value of PV. i Wear rate up to the load which gives the limiting value of PV. NM means not measured. The tribological tests described under note b of Table. One were repeated under different conditions and are reported in TableTwo. Table TwoEMI8.1 tb SEP Sample SEP Load SEP LPV SEP CF SEP Wear SEP Rate tb SEP a SEP kg SEP t3 SEP tb SEP j SEP c SEP SEP SEP d e SEP SEP C SEP f SEP h SEP SEP i tb SEP PEEK SEP 8 SEP 1479 SEP 0.58 SEP 450 SEP NM tb PEEK SEP SEP PTFE SEP 20 SEP 3641 SEP 0.28 SEP 600 SEP 138 tb SEP Eg SEP 1 SEP 40 SEP 8250 SEP 0.08 SEP 270 SEP 150 tb SEP Eg SEP 2 SEP 40 SEP 7822 SEP 0.09 SEP SEP 150 SEP 237 tb Notes to Table Two a , c , d , e , f , h , and i are all as defined inNotes to Table One. j Tribological data was obtained as in Note b to TableOne but at a temperature of 200c. The tribological tests described under note b of Table One were repeated under different conditions and the result are reported in Table Three. Table ThreeEMI8.2 tb SEP Sample SEP Load SEP LPV SEP CF SEP Wear SEP Rate tb SEP a SEP kg SEP k tb SEP k c SEP SEP k d SEP k f SEP h SEP i tb SEP PEEK SEP 70 SEP 4008 SEP 0.15 SEP 350 SEP 300 tb PEEK SEP SEP PTFE SEP 150 SEP 7027 SEP 0.11 SEP 250 SEP 458 tb SEP Eg SEP 1 SEP 210 SEP 9964 SEP 0.05 SEP 440 SEP 375 tb SEP Eg SEP 2 SEP 210 SEP 11137 SEP 0.05 SEP 107 SEP 214 tb Notes to Table Three a , c , d , f , h and i are all as defined in Notes to Table One. k Tribological data was obtained using a procedure generally as described in Note b to Table One but with the following variations. The ring was rotated to give a surface speed of 100 feet minute 30.5 metres minute . The test speciment was run in for 10 minutes under a 10 kg load and for a further 10 minutes under a 30 kg load. The load was then increased in increments of 20 kg up to 90 kg and thereafter in increments of 30 kg, and each load was maintained for 0.5 hour. The load was increased up to a maximum of 210 kg or until one of the failure criteria was exceeded. The tribological tests described under note k of TableThree were repeated at 200c and the results are reported in TableFour. Table FourEMI9.1 tb SEP Sample SEP Load SEP LPV SEP CF SEP Wear Rate tb SEP a SEP keg SEP SEP 1 tb SEP l c SEP l d SEP SEP l f SEP h SEP i tb SEP PEEK SEP 70 SEP 3641 SEP 0.34 SEP 303 SEP 432 tb PEEK SEP SEP PTFE SEP 140 SEP 7108 SEP 0.12 SEP 250 SEP 37.5 tb SEP Eg SEP 1 SEP SO SEP SEP 3080 SEP 0.22 SEP 750 SEP 875 tb SEP Eg SEP 2 SEP 110 SEP 4559 SEP 0.18 SEP 300 SEP 675 tb Notes to Table Four a , c , d , f , h , and i are all as defined in Notes to Table One. 1 Tribological data was obtained as in Note k to TableThree but at a temperature of 2O0C. Injection moulded samples of the composition were subjected to limiting oxygen index, smoke density, toxic gas emission and flammability tests. The results are set out in Tables Five to Seven.For all these tests, test specimens were cut from the discs 11.4 cm diameter and 3.2 fl thick prepared as described in Examples 1 and 2. TABLE TWOEMI10.1 tb sample SEP Limiting tb SEP a SEP Oxygen tb SEP Index SEP m SEP tb PEEK SEP 35 tb Eg SEP 1 SEP 45 tb Notes to Table Five a is as defined in Notes to Table One. m Limiting oxygen index is measured according to ASTM TestMethod D2863 77 and is the minimum concentration of oxygen which will just support combustion of a test specimen of dimensions 6.5 0.5 am x 3.0 0.5 mm x 70 150mm cut from the injection moulded discs.The specimen is ignited using a hydrogen or propane flame and must burn for at least three minutes or for a length of at least 50mm. TABLE SIXEMI10.2 tb SEP Smoke SEP test SEP n SEP Gas SEP analysis SEP o tb SEP Sample tb SEP Minimum SEP Time SEP to SEP Weight SEP CO SEP CO2 SEP SO2 SEP HCN tb PEEK SEP 91 SEP 20 SEP 5 SEP 1.5 SEP 240 SEP 0 SEP ND SEP ND tb Eg SEP 1 SEP 95 SEP 20 SEP 3 SEP 1.2 SEP 70 SEP 0.2 SEP ND SEP ND tb Notes to Table Six a is as defined in Notes to Table One. n Smoke density test was carried out in a NES smoke chamber using the procedure of ASTM Test Method E662 79. The test specimens were 76 x 76mm x 3.0 0.5 mm, cut from the injection moulded discs and were mounted in a holder to expose an area about 65 x 65mm. The test was carried out in the flaming mode and the smoke density was determined by passing a collimated light beam from an incandescent light source vertically through the smoke chamber to a photodetector. D is the Maximum specific optical density. m o After exposure of the sample in the smoke chamber for 20 minutes, gas samples were taken using Drager tubes and the samples were analysed. ND indicates none detected . TABLE SEVENEMI11.1 tb SEP Burning SEP test SEP p tb SEP Sample tb SEP a SEP i SEP SEP Classification tb PEEK SEP 94V O tb Eg SEP SEP 1 SEP SEP 94V O tb Eg SEP SEP 2 SEP 94V O SEP tb Notes to Table Seven a is as defined in Notes to Table One. p Flammability was tested using the Underwriter sLaboratories UL94 vertical test. The test specimens were about 110x12.7mm area and cut from the injection moulded discs. Each specimen was clamped in a draught free cabinet and ignited by applying a blue bunsen burner flame for 10 seconds. Injection moulded tensile bars, obtained as described inExamples 1 and 2, were subjected to mechanical testing. The test results are set out in Table Eight. Table EightEMI12.1 tb Sample SEP Tensile SEP Elongation SEP Flexural SEP Strength SEP Flexural SEP Modules SEP Notched SEP tb SEP a SEP Strength SEP to SEP Izod SEP Impact tb SEP to SEP Yield SEP Break SEP spa SEP SEP r SEP GPa SEP r SEP Strength tb SEP at SEP 23 C SEP at SEP 23 C SEP at SEP 23 C tb SEP MPa SEP SEP 23 C SEP 250 C SEP 23 C SEP 250 C SEP J m tb SEP q SEP q SEP s tb SEP PEEK SEP 96 SEP 15 SEP 153 SEP 9 SEP 4 SEP 0.3 SEP 83 tb Eg SEP 1 SEP 91 SEP 11 SEP 161 SEP 4 SEP SEP 5 SEP 0.2 tb SEP Eg SEP 2 SEP NM SEP NM SEP NM SEP NM SEP 5 SEP NM SEP 111 tb Notes to Table Eight a is as defined in Notes to Table One. q Measured used the procedure of ASTM Test Method D368 using the following conditions cross head speed 10mm minute chart speed 50mm minute gauge length 115mm r Measured using the procedure of ASTM Test Method D790 using the following conditions cross head speed 5mm minute chart speed 5Osm minute span 50mm s Measured using the procedure of ASTM Test Method D256 using an Izod bar measuring 72mm x 13mm x 3mm and having a 0.25mm radius moulded in notch NH means not measured. Test specimens of 3mm x 3mm x 3mm in size were cut from the injection moulded discs and were subject to determination of the coefficient of thermal expansion. The test results are set out inTable Nine. Table NineEMI13.1 tb Sample SEP Temperature SEP Coefficient SEP of SEP Thermal SEP Expansion tb SEP a SEP C SEP SEP oK7l SEP SEP x SEP 105 SEP t tb SEP x SEP SEP x SEP SEP Y SEP SEP z tb PEEK SEP 50 SEP 4.9 SEP 5.5 SEP 6.3 tb SEP 140 SEP 5.3 SEP 6.1 SEP 6.3 tb SEP 250 SEP 9.4 SEP 9.3 SEP 9.6 SEP tb Eg SEP 2 SEP 50 SEP 3.5 SEP 5.0 SEP 5.6 tb SEP 140 SEP 3.2 SEP 5.4 SEP 6.0 tb SEP 250 SEP 6.1 SEP 7.9 SEP 9.9 tb Notes to Table Nine a is as defined in Notes to Table One. t Coefficient of Thermal Expansion was determined using test speciments 3mm x 3mm x 3mm cut from a single edge gated moulded disc and using a Perkin Elmer TMS 1 thermomechanical analyser operating at a heating rate of 5 C minute. The test specimens were annealed for one hour at 2600C prior to use. x refers to measurement in the direction of flow of the melt into the moulding. y refers to measurement in the direction tranverse to the flow of the melt into the moulding. z refers to measurement through the thickness of the moulding.