# PROCESS FOR A THERMO INDUCIBLE GENE EXPRESSION IN GRAM POSITIVE BACTERIA, BACILLUS SUBTILIS STRAINS CONTAINING PLASMIDS WHICH INDUCE SUCH AN EXPRESSION AND PORTABLE VECTOR SYSTEMS

## Claims
Verfahren zur thermoinduzierbaren Genexpression in grampositiven Bakterien, dadurch gekennzeichnet, daß diese thermoinduzierbare Genexpression durch die Insertion von zwei verschiedenen Plasmidarten herbeigeführt wird, entstanden aus genetischer Manipulation und enthaltend, was die erste Plasmidart betrifft, das DNS Material eines heterologen strukturellen, zur Expression zu bringenden Gens, dem das DNS Material eines für die grampositiven Bakterien geeigneten Promoter Operators vorangeht bzw., was die zweite Plasmidart betrifft, das DNS Material eines Repressorgens, dessen Proteinprodukt zur Interaktion mit dem DNS Material des auf dem ersten Plasmid vorhandenen Promoter Operators befähigt ist, und das DNS Material einer für Replikation des zweiten Plasmids temperaturempfindlichen Entität, in die grampositiven Bakterien.

## Description
The invention relates to a process for inducing gene expression in Gram positive bacteria by temperature variation. The invention provides also Gram positive bacteria of the Bacillus subtilis type containing at least two different kinds of plasmid capable of a temperature induced efficient expression of an heterologous structural gene cloned in one of those plasmids. Up to now many authors have dealt in the literature with expression of heterologous structural genes in many kinds of prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells. The efficiency of the expression of such cloned heterologous structural genes is a function of many parameters of greater or lesser importance. Among those parameters the regulation of expression by an external modulator i.e. chemical or physical means allowing the choice of the exact moment at which the expression of the heterologous cloned structural gene is started, obviously is one of the most important factors. Many solutions for the resolution of this problem can be imagined, and one of these possible solutions consists in creating, one way or another, a temperature induced expression in order to start the expression of the heterologous structural gene as soon as a particular temperature is reached. The various ways in which this can be done are thoroughly discussed in publications such as US A 4374927 patent of COHEN. However such a regulated temperature induced gene expression has up to now been realised with satisfactory results only in bacteria of the Gram negative type such as Escherichia coli strains and has never been realised with Gram positive bacteria. It has now been found that regulation of heterologous structural gene expression can under certain circumstances also be realised in Gram positive bacteria through a genetical construction as realised in the present invention. Therefore one embodiment of the present invention relates to a process for a thermo inducible gene expression in Gram positive bacteria characterized in that this thermo inducible gene expression is realized through the introduction of two different kinds of plasmid, issued from genetic engineering and comprising respectively as concerns the first kind of plasmid the DNA material of a heterologous structural gene to be expressed preceeded by the DNA material of a promoter operator appropriate to the Gram positive bacteria and as concerns the second kind of plasmid, the DNA material of a repressor gene, whose protein product is capable of interaction with the DNA material of the promoter operator present on the first plasmid, and the DNA material of an entity temperature sensitive for replication of the second plasmid, into the Gram positive bacteria. As the DNA material of the entity temperature sensitive for replication of the second plasmid, there can be used any known synthetic or naturally occurring DNA material which is insertable into the second kind of plasmid. Good results have been obtained by using as the second kind of plasmid, a plasmid which occurs in nature already as a temperature sensitive plasmid and wherein the DNA material of a repressor gene, whose protein product is capable of interaction with the promoter operator of the first kind of plasmid, has been inserted by genetic engineering. The promoter operator and the repressor gene although located on two different plasmids should be able to interact with each other and are preferably issued from the same DNA material as preferred DNA material the genomic material of a bacteriophage and more precisely of a temperate bacteriophage i.e. of the same temperate bacteriophage can be used. As Gram positive bacteria there can be used such genera as Streptomyces, Corynebacterium, Clostridium, Staphylococcus and Bacillus. Good results have been obtained with Bacillus subtilis strains. Consequently the invention relates also to new Bacillus subtilis strains containing two different kinds of plasmid issued from genetic engineering and comprising respectively as concerns the first kind of plasmid the DNA material of a heterologous structural gene to be expressed preceded by the DNA material of a promoter operator appropriate to the Bacillus subtilis strain and as concerns the second kind of plasmid, the DNA material of a repressor gene, whose protein product is capable of interaction with the DNA material of the promotor present on the first plasmid, and the DNA material of an entity temperature sensitive for replication of the second plasmid. The invention also comprises the new plasmids, the DNA material of the new promoter operator and of the repressor gene as described hereafter. Moreover the invention relates also t a new plasmid or vector composition intended to be introduced into Gram positive bacteria strains, and comprising two plasmids containing respectively The invention is illustrated hereafter in connection to a Bacillus subtilis strain and as a model for the heterologous structural gene there was chosen a chloramphenicol acetyl transferase cat 86 gene. However, the invention can without any difficulties for the man skilled in the art be executed with other Gram positive bacteria and or other heterologous structural genes originating from different procaryotic or eucaryotic cells. According to the particular nature of the heterologous structural gene used there can be synthetised different kinds of proteins. Another embodiment of the present invention relates to portable bacterial control systems, for expression of a subject coding sequence, comprising a vector system containing a promotor operator operably linked to the subject coding sequence and a DNA sequence encoding a compatible repressor protein of the operator wherein said operator and said DNA sequence encoding for the repressor protein are from Gram positive bacterial origin. Generally both operator and the DNA sequence encoding for the repressor protein are originating from the same Gram positive bacterial origin and the best results are obtained, up to now, when both are originating from the Bacillus subtilis temperate phage 105 and more particularly from the immunity region of this temperate phage. The origin of the promotor is without direct importance for the invention as long as it remains compatible with the particular Gram positive bacterial host wherein expression is realised. It is thus possible to use a promotor originating from the same DNA material or from DNA material of another source as the DNA material from which the operator is originating. More particularly, promotors originating from Gram positive and Gram negative bacteria or even from eucaryotic origin can be used. It is thus possible to chose, as a promotor for the present vector system, DNA material originating of various sources, having a very strong, a medium, a weak or even a very weak activity as can be desirable in particular cases. Although various combinations of a repressor with its cognate operator are possible, the best results are up to now obtained with a repressor whose DNA material is from Gram positive bacterial origin and whose transcription is auto regulated via its own promotor i.e. a repressor stimulating its own transcription. The subject coding sequence which is intended to be expressed can be any DNA material, from procaryotic or eucaryotic origin, coding for one or more peptides or proteins of interest and valuable in technical fields such as pharmaceuticals for humans or animals, vaccines, enzymes and so on. Any vector system can be used for this particular object of the present invention provided that it allows the incorporation of the above described essential elements. Good results have been obtained with a vector system based on plasmid technology. If such a plasmid technology is elected it remains however possible to incorporate the promotor operator, the subject coding sequence and the DNA sequence encoding for the repressor protein on one and the same or on different plasmids and even, at least partially, on the chromosome of the host bacteria. In the examples of the present invention there were used, to illustrate this object of the invention a system containing two kinds of plasmids and in order to induce, a thermo inducible gene expression. For the convenience of understanding the experimental section the following list of abbreviations and brief summary are given. Ap ampicillin CAT chloramphenicol acetyl transferase Cm chloramphenicol EGTA ethylene glycol bis β aminoethyl ether N,N,N,N tetraacetic acid Em erythromycin EtBr ethidium bromide IPTG, isopropyl β D thiogalactopyranoside kb 1000 bp Km kanamycin A Bacterial hosts and plasmids from several sources are listed in Table I. Plasmids and strains constructed during this work are described in Tables II and III. All cultures were grown in Luria broth containing 1 glucose LBG , supplemented with the appropriate antibiotics. Small quantities of plasmid DNA were prepared from Phage 105 was induced by the addition of mitomycin C 1µg ml to an exponentially growing culture 5 x 10⁷ cfu ml of After treatment with DNase 50µg ml and RNase 50µg ml for 1 hour at 37 C, the phage suspension was extracted twice with phenol and four times with ethyl ether. The DNA was precipitated with ethanol and recovered by spooling on a sterile glass rod. Phage titres were determined as described by Rutberg Reference 10 , using exponentially growing cells of Transformants were screened for sensitivity to 105 by picking individual colonies into tubes containing 1 ml LBG. The tubes were incubated at 37 C until the cultures shoved a slight turbidity. Using a platinum loop, samples of each culture were streaked on LBG agar which had been impregnated with a dilute suspension of phage 5 x 10³ pfu plate . After incubation overnight at 33 C plaque formation was observed on sensitive strains. Strains that shoved immunity to infection with 105 when tested in this way were also tested by mixing 0.3 ml of an exponentially growing culture with 0.1 ml phage suspension 3.5 x 10³ pfu ml . After incubation at 37 C for 15 min, 2.5 ml molten top agar was added, and the mixture was poured on LB plates and incubated at 37 C. Exponentially growing cultures of strains 168 and 168 105 were used as sensitive and immune controls, respectively, in both tests. The 4.7 kb The usefulness of pPGV2 for cloning, by direct selection, of fragments exhibiting promoter activity in Since no data were available concerning the location of transcriptional units in the DNA of phage 105, it has been decided to construct a collection of 105 promoter containing plasmids representative of the entire genome. Purified 105 DNA was digested with Plasmid pPGV138 confers at least a 10 fold higher CAT activity than pPL608, the latter being considered as a strong promoter plasmid, derived from pPL603 by the insertion of an Sequence data on the pPGV138 insert not shown indicate that it consists of a single, 386 bp It is of interest to find repressor controlled promoters amongst our collection of cloned 105 fragments. A ³²P labelled fragment as hybridization probe has used against the nitrocellulose bound DNA of 31 different promoter plasmid isolates. As shown in Fig. 3A, 14 plasmids produced detectable hybridization signals, with considerable differences in their intensity. For example, strong hybridization was observed for pPGV209 , whereas the signal obtained for pPGV131 was very weak. The same filter was subsequently probed Fig. 3B with another 105 fragment, the 5.4 kb Comparison of Figs. 3A and 3B indicates that some plasmids such as pPGV206 , pPGV209 and pPGV210 hybridize to both probes. This result cannot be explained solely by a slight degree of cross contamination in the probes used, since other plasmids such as pPGV7 , pPGV10 , pPGV103 , pPGV205 , and pPGV208 clearly hybridize specifically to either Clearly, a more conclusive screening for promoters subject to 105 repressor control should be based on their inability to promote Therefore, the 105 The Em The low copy number of pE194 in The resulting cointegrate plasmid pCGV4 replicates both in To substitute the pUC4 moiety in pCGV4 by the An To screen the collection of 105 promoter containing pPGV2 derivatives for the presence of repressor controlled sequences, each of 18 different plasmids see Table III were individually introduced into competent cells of strain BD170 pCGV28 . Transformants in each case were selected at 37 C on Em Km plates, followed by testing of their Cm resistance 15µg ml at 33 C and 45 C. The expected phenotype for a strain in which The results of such a test are summarized in Table III. Most pPGV plasmids conferred Cm resistance at both temperatures see Fig. 5B , indicating that the cloned promoter was functionally repressor independent. However, three plasmids, pPGV9 , pPGV10 and pPGV209 , exhibited the expected temperatureinducible Cm Furthermore, several individual colonies of BD170 pCGV28, pPGV10 isolated from a Cm plate at 37 C were tested for their Em resistance, and all were found to be sensitive. Conversely, all Em As shown above Fig. 3A , the cloned 105 To construct a restriction map of 105 Probing of the same filter with ³²P labeled pPGV209 produced an identical pattern of hybridizing fragments data not shown . Hence, although pPGV209 must contain additional sequences derived from elsewhere in the 105 genome as evidenced by the presence of a second These findings led us to map the 105 repressor gene more precisely within The following illustrates the nucleotide sequence and mutational analyses of the immunity repressor gene isolated from Bacillus subtilis temperate phage 105. The left part of 105 Figures 11 and 12 show the convenient location of a Immediately preceding ORF1 is a sequence 5 AAAGGAG 3 , showing a 7 bp complementarity to the 3 end of Translation of ORF2 most probably starts at the ATG codon overlapping the triplets for residue 142 and 143 of the repressor. The function of the ORF2 gene product 157 amino acids is unknown but its expression is obviously coregulated tightly with that of the repressor. This kind of translation overlap is quite unusual, but by no means unique. Having defined the structural part of the 105 repressor gene, it is of interested to identify the control signals for the repressor ORF2 transcription unit in the 5 flanking DNA. Plasmid pCGV14 Figure 13A consists of the 2.3kb 105 PstI I fragment cloned in pE194 cop 6. It contains the intact ORF1 with over 1 kb of upstream sequence, and as expected it confers immunity to 105 infection. In pC6V14, the As a result there were obtained a collection of pCGV14 mutants pCGV14Δ... with deletions extending in both directions from the It is further noted that these promoter elements are preceded by a very AT rich region, 76 between positions 150 and 90 , a feature common to several other The codon usage and amino acid compositions for 105 repressor and ORF2, as deduced from the nucleotide sequence, are shown in Table V. In what follows, there was tentatively assigned translation initiation to the GTG codon and assumed that the terminal residue of the mature repressor polypeptide is isoleucine Figure 12 . The repressor does not contain cysteine or tryptophan, but has a high content of glutamic acid 20 residues . Its pH is likely to be close to neutral, given the sum of acidic residues Asp Glu 27 , and basic residues Arg His Lys 26 . The most striking overall property of the polypeptide is its pronouced hydrophilicity, as illustrated in the hydropathy profile Figure 14 . Very hydrophilic regions extend from residues 10 19, 36 41, 71 100 and 130 146, whereas the only hydrophobic regions are found between residues 1 5 and 51 64. Clearly, this feature refers to the cytoplasmic localization of the repressor protein. In order to elucidate which region s of the polypeptide might be involved in DNA binding, an extensive comparison of its amino acid sequence with that of several other repressors functional in Gram negative bacteria such as Table VI summarizes the results for each pairwise comparison. The overall homology, at the primary structure level, between 105 and any of the other repressors is insignificant as the highest proportion of identical residues, obtained with the A further comparison step was based on the well documented observation that all known repressors, regardless of the specific operator sequence to which they bind, contain a stretch of 20 contigous residues exhibiting an helix turn helix configuration. This three dimensional structural element is essential for interaction with the major groove of the DNA helix. The 105 sequence was examined for regions whose sequence would be compatible, at each crucial position, with the sequences of this DNA binding domain in a number of other repressors. As a result the region extending from position 20 Gln to 39 Arg is the most likely candidate. In Figure 16 this region was aligned with that of seven other repressors. The most important positions are 5, 9, 15 and 18 which should have alanine, glycine, and two hydrophobic amino acids, respectively. The 105 sequence conforms well in three of these positions, whereas in position 9 it has asparagine which is, however, also found at that position in γδ resolvase. Furthermore, hydrophobic residues should be present in positions 4, 8 and 19. The examined 105 sequence again agrees at two of these positions 4 Leu and 8 Ala , and the glutamic acid at 19 is also present in the P22 c2 repressor. Lastly, hydrophilic residues should occupy positions 1 3, 6 7, 11 14 and 16 17. Again, the 105 sequence shows hydrophilic side chains in 9 out of these 11 positions. It should be noted however, that a 105 promoter operator site controlled by the repressor has been localized within the 662 bp There are, however, obvious differences in the organization of the 105 immunity region compared to that of λ or the Second, preliminary mapping data on the above mentioned target promoter operator site indicate that it is located to the right of the These results suggest further that the 105 repressor transcript, starting most likely some 10 bp downstream of the TATAAT hexanucleotide in Figure 12, contains at least 50 bases of untranslated leader, including a strong ribosomal binding site. Again, this is different from λ Using a comparative approach, there was identified a DNA binding region within the 105 repressor polypeptide, extending from residue positions 20 to 39. It is now possible to test this assignment by targeted mutagenesis of the corresponding DNA sequence. One important aspect of the expression systems based on λP In plasmid pPGV10 see above this To test whether the maintenance promoter is capable of transcriptionally activating the The resulting plasmid, pPGV17 , did not confer chloramphenicol resistance 15µg ml , indicating that the 105 maintenance promoter, when dissected from its coding sequence, is not active. However, when active repressor was introduced in the same cell, by transformation with plasmid pCGV14, the resulting double transformant BR151 pPGV17 , pCGV14 showed an Em Having defined the two essential components of our thermo inducible gene expression system, i.e. the repressor and operator fragment of 105, we sought to improve the efficiency of the system. Indeed, due to the weak promoter activity associated with the 650 bp In fact, the collection of promoter plasmids already contained such a strong, promoter it is present on plasmid pPGV138 see description p. 10 which confers at least a 100 fold higher CAT activity than pOGV10 Table II . Consequently, plasmid pPGV138 was used as starting material for the construction of a hybrid promoter operator. To this end, the operator site of pPCV10 had to be isolated and inserted between the strong promoter and the As a first approach to defining more precisely the position of the operator region within the 650 bp To assess whether the hybrid promotor operator element can direct high level, repressor regulated expression of the test gene, cat 86, the chloramphenicol resistance level on petri dishes of As source of functional repressor, the Em Thus, From these growth tests the following important conclusions can be drawn The antibiotic growth tests were further substantiated and quantified by enzymatic CAT activity assays. Table IV shows that at least a 25 fold induction can be obtained using pPGV301. This figure is almost certainly an underestimate due to the superimposed translational constraint on Given the above results, it can be concluded that pPGV301 is an efficient expression vector for B. subtilis. Moreover fig. 9 shows that the hybrid promotor operator element can easily be excised from pPGV301 e.g. using There was described a generally applicable, inducible gene expression system for Gram positive bacteria. The crucial elements in this system, repressor and its cognate operator, are derived from a temperate bacteriophage indigenous to It is believed that this gene expression system shows some novel features, and offers advantages over similar gene expression systems, e.g. for Gram negative reference 25 and Gram positive reference 26 organisms. First of all, the operator can be isolated and fused to another, unrelated promoter, while retaining its functionality, i.e. the hybrid promoter operator construction is still effectively controlled by the repressor. Example pPGV 138 . This system therefore permits a great flexibility in the choice of the promoter. As promoter, any DNA sequence functional in Indeed, it has been shown that the 105 repressor stimulates its own transcription autogenous positive regulation , much in the same way as λ repressor does. This ensures the synthesis of high intracellular level of repressor, meeting the requirements for repression of a very strong promoter e.g. by binding to a number of operators placed in tandem . Therefore, in order to obtain a highly efficient, well controllable expression system for a Gram positive host, it is advantageous to employ regulatory elements operator repressor of Gram positive origin. A Bacillus subtilis strain comprising a first plasmid pPGV 10 and a second plasmid pCGV28 has been deposited at the N.C.I.B. under the designation BD170 pPGV10 , pCGV28 . N.C.I.B. number 12014 received on 7th September 1984 . This deposit has been made under the requirements of the Budapest Treaty. A second bacillus strain comprising a first plasmid pPGV301 and a second plasmid pCGV14 has also been deposited at the N.C.I.B. under the designation BR151 pPGV301, pCGV14 N.C.I.B. number 12170 in order to illustrate all the objects of the invention. Only a few relevant examples are shown. The complete results are summarized in Table II. DNA 5 10 µg of the indicated plasmids was denatured and bound to nitrocellulose, followed by hybridization to nicktranslated, ³²P labeled 105 Individual 105 The pE194 map is from Reference 20 . pHV14 F is described by Reference 19 . In pCGV4 and pCGV28, the heavy line represents pE194 sequences. The orientation of the For each promoter plasmid transformation, four independent colonies, selected on Em Km plates at 37 C were tested. The The Plasmid pCGV14, containing a functional repressor, consists of the 2.3 kb The top shows a restriction map of a 105 DNA segment around 70 75 genome length, including Values were obtained using the average of a moving segment of 7 residues. Hydrophilic regions are found above the midline, hydrophobic are below. The one letter notation for amino acids is used. Residue numbers for 105 repressor are identical to Figure 2. In P22 c2 repressor, the N terminal methionine is deformylated, but not removed after translation 23 . Hence, numbering starts with this residue. Positions showing identical residues are boxed. Positions with a functionally rather conservative substitution are indicated by a vertical connector line. Except for the 105 repressor, data have been reproduced from 30 . The amino acid positions within each individual polypeptide are shown below its sequence. The crucial positions residues 5, 9, 15, 18 are boxed.