# DELAY CIRCUIT HAVING DELAY TIME PERIOD DETERMINED BY DISCHARGING OPERATION

## Claims
Verzögerungsschaltung mit

## Description
The present invention relates to a delay circuit in, for example, an electrically erasable and programmable read only memory E²PROM , a nonvolatile random access memory NOVRAM , and the like. In an E²PROM, NOVRAM, and the like, the write erase voltage V During a write erase mode, a clock signal is supplied to the step up circuit, thereby increasing the write erase voltage V However, such a high voltage V A prior art delay circuit comprises an N channel depletion type transistor, linked between a signal input terminal and a signal output terminal, a N channel depletion type transistor as a load, and a capacitor C connected to the input terminal, thereby forming a capacitance resistance CR time constant circuit. However, in the above mentioned prior art, it is difficult to precisely increase the CR time constant. If the CR time constant is caused to be increased, the manufacturing cost of the circuit is increased, which will be later explained in more detail. It is an object of the present invention to provide a delay circuit at a low manufacturing cost having an increased delay time period. According to the present invention, there is provided a delay circuit comprising an input terminal means an output terminal means a power supply means a transistor having a gate, a source and a drain, the source and drain being connected between the input terminal means and the output terminal means a capacitor, linked between the gate of the transistor and the power supply means characterized by a charging switch, linked between the input terminal means and the gate of the transistor, for charging the capacitor a discharging switch, connected between the gate of the transistor, for discharging the capacitor and a constant current source, linked between the discharging switch and the constant power supply means and control means, connected to the charging switch and to the discharging switch, for complementarily controlling the charging switch and the discharging switch. The present invention will be more clearly understood from the description as set forth below with reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein Fig. 1 is a block circuit diagram schematically illustrating all of an E²PROM to which the present invention applies Fig. 2 is a circuit diagram of a prior art delay circuits Fig. 3 is a circuit diagram of an embodiment of the delay circuit according to the present invention and Fig. 4 is an equivalent circuit diagram of the circuit of Fig. 3 Fig. 5 is a detailed circuit diagram of the control circuit of Fig. 3 and Fig. 6 is a timing diagram showing the operation of the circuit of Fig. 3. First, an example of an E Reference numeral 14 designates a mode selection circuit for receiving a chip enable signal Also, a single power supply voltage V Reference numeral 16 designates a clock generating circuit which generates a write erase clock signal W E when a write erase operation is carried out. Reference numeral 17 designates a step up circuit which generates a high voltage V A writing operation for the memory cell CL In Fig. 2, which illustrates a prior art delay circuit, an N channel depletion type transistor Q₁ is linked between a signal input terminal IN and a signal output terminal OUT, and an N channel depletion type transistor Q₂ as a load and a capacitor C are connected to the input terminal IN, thereby forming a CR time constant circuit. In Fig. 2, however, it is very difficult to precisely increase the time constant CR, which will be explained below. That is, when the potential at node N₁ increases, the current flowing through the transistor Q On the other hand, in order to increase the CR time constant, the area of the capacitor C is increased, or the resistance of the transistor Q₂ is increased. The increase of the area of the capacitor C is disadvantageous, since the area occupied by the capacitor C is large. Further, in order to increase the resistance of the transistor Q₂ , its channel width W is reduced, or its channel length L is increased. The increase of the channel length L is disadvantageous in that it increases the occupied area. Therefore, in the prior art, the above mentioned increase of the CR time constant is mainly attained by decreasing the channel width W of the transistor Q₂. However, the decrease of the channel width W invites the back bias effect. That is, in a depletion type transistor, the conductivity type of the channel region is opposite to that of a channel cut stopper region under a field area, and accordingly, the concentration of impurities of each region near their boundary is reduced. Therefore, in order to compensate for the reduction of the impurity concentration of each region, additional ion implantation and a mask therefor are necessary. Therefore, the manufacturing process in view of the back bias effect invites a high manufacturing cost. Thus, in the delay circuit of Fig. 2, it is difficult to precisely increase the CR time constant without inviting a high manufacturing cost. In Fig. 3, which illustrates an embodiment of the present invention, the signal input potential V Referring to Fig. 4, which is an equivalent diagram of Fig. 3, the transistor Q₁₂ of Fig. 3 corresponds to a switch SW In Fig. 5, which is a detailed circuit diagram of the control circuit CONT of Fig. 3, a voltage detecting circuit 51 comprises a voltage divider formed by resistors R₁ and R₂ , an inverter INV, and an N channel enhancement type transistor Q During a write erase mode, the voltage detecting circuit 51 transmits a low level signal to the node N₃ when the voltage V The operation of the circuit of Fig. 3, Fig. 5 will be explained with reference to Fig. 6. At time t At time t Thus, in the circuit of Fig. 3, a delay time period is set by the discharging operation instead of the charging operation, and the source of the depletion type transistor Q Note that the delay circuit according to the present invention can be also applied to devices other than nonvolatile semiconductor memory devices. Also, various modifications of the control circuit CONT are possible in accordance with the applied devices. As explained above, the manufacturing process in view of the back bias effect is unnecessary, and accordingly, the present invention is helpful in avoiding fluctuations in the manufacturing process, reducing manufacturing costs, and the computation of an accurate delay time period.