# SEMICONDUCTOR MEMORY DEVICE

## Claims
Halbleiterspeichervorrichtung, bei der eine Vielzahl von Speicherzellen 1 durch Transistoren gebildet sind, die eine Schottky Grenzschichtdiode SBD als eine Last haben und längs Wortleitungen 2a, 2b angeordnet sind, wobei die genannten Speicherzellen von einem Ende der genannten Wortleitungen durch Worttreiber 12 getrieben werden, gekennzeichnet durch

## Description
The present invention relates to a semiconductor memory device, more particularly to a semiconductor memory device as known from US A 3 886 531 in which a plurality of memory cells formed by transistors having a Schottky barrier diode SBD as a load are arranged along word lines and the memory cells are driven from one end of the word lines by word drivers. Actual memory devices include many word lines. The potential of one of those word lines is made high level so as to select the same. The word drivers include polycrystalline silicon layers, while the memory cells do not this affects the memory cells adjacent to word drivers and with SBD s as loads. The forward voltage V Further, while cells adjacent to word drivers are positioned between a word driver and another cell, other cells are positioned between one cell and another, having the same construction. Therefore, peripheral portions around cells adjacent to word drivers are nonsymmetrical in construction, so that special relationships such as between the amount of aluminum and windows of bulk silicon are spoiled. An object of the present invention is to provide a semiconductor memory device in which memory cells adjacent to word drivers are not affected by polycrystalline silicon layers included in the word drivers. Another object of the present invention is to provide a semiconductor memory device in which memory cells adjacent to word drivers are symmetrical in construction in the peripheral portions. A further object of the present invention is to provide a semiconductor memory device in which a stable forward voltage is obtained for SBD s included in memory cells adjacent to word drivers. The above mentioned objects can be achieved by a semiconductor memory device, in which a plurality of memory cells formed by transistors having a Schottky barrier diode as a load are arranged along word lines and the memory cells are driven from one end of the word lines by word drivers, characterized in that dummy cells connected to said word lines are formed between the word drivers and memory cells adjacent to the word drivers, so that the forward voltage V Further features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the ensuing description with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 shows the layout of a conventional semiconductor device. In Fig. 1, reference numeral 1 designates memory cells arranged in row and column directions and reference numeral 12 word drivers. In Fig. 1, memory cells arranged adjacent to the word drivers 12 are indicated by hatching. These are affected by the polycrystalline silicon layers in the word drivers and are not symmetrical in the peripheral portions. This will be further explained by Fig. 2. In Fig. 2, reference numeral 1 shows memory cells, 2a, 2b word lines, 3a, 3b bit lines and SBD Schottky barrier diodes. In Fig. 2, when data is held, a hold transistor T When the transistors T₁ and T When the potential of the bit line is placed from this writing state to a hold state, the hold current I An actual memory device includes many word lines. The potential of one is made H level so as to select one of the same. Now, assume that the difference of the potential on the selected word line V A plan view and a sectional view of the semiconductor device shown in Fig. 2 are given in Figs. 3 a and 3 b , respectively. In Fig. 3, 12 is a word line driver portion, 1 is a memory cell, 1a, 1b are transistors included in a memory cell, and 13 is an isolation layer. In the transistors 1a and 1b, C is a collector contact, B is a base contact, E is an emitter contact, and SBD is a Schottky barrier diode. Further, 14 shows a polycrystalline silicon layer and 15 an aluminum wiring layer. Here, note that the left side of line 11 includes the polycrystalline silicon layer 14, while the right side does not. In memory cells having SBD s as loads, as explained above, the V Furthermore, the SBD s adjacent to the word line drivers 12 do not have the symmetrical pattern layout around them, unlike the SBD s in the other memory cells. Therefore, a tendency occurs in that the V Further, if a series of V In the present invention, other dummy SBD s 20 are provided separate from the memory cells 1 adjacent to the transistors of the word drivers 12 as shown in Fig. 4, to prevent the SBD s of the memory cells 20 from being affected by the polycrystalline silicon of the transistors in the word line drivers 12. Embodiments of the invention will now be explained in detail referring to the drawings. Figure 5 is a circuit diagram of an embodiment of the present invention. As shown in Fig. 5, the feature of the present invention is to insert dummy SBD s 20 between the word drivers 12 and the memory cells 1 adjacent to the word drivers 12. According to the insertion of such dummy SBD s 20, the SBD having a large V Figure 6 shows the essential portion of a semiconductor integrated circuit including circuit shown in Fig. 5. In Fig. 6, 1 is a memory cell, 1a, 1b are transistors included therein, 12 is a word driver, and 13 is an isolation layer. The left side of a barrier line 11 shows portions where polycrystalline silicon 14 is formed, and the right side portions where no polycrystalline silicon is formed. 2a is a word line formed by an aluminum layer and connected to the n epitaxial layer so as to form the SBDs in the memory cells 1. Since many memory cells are connected to the word line 2a, a plurality of SBD s couplings are provided along the word line 2a. As shown in Fig. 6, the dummy SBD s 20 are provided adjacent to the word driver transistor 12, so the effect of the polycrystalline silicon layer of the transistor 12 is stopped at the dummy SBD s 20 and does not reach the SBD s of the memory cells 1. This enables stabilization of the characteristics of V Figure 7 is a plan view of a semiconductor memory device according to the present invention. The plan view shows a region including two word lines and two columns and clarifies the relationship among the memory cell portion 1, the dummy cell portion 20, and the word driver portion 12. There appear to be two reasons why the dummy SBDs 20 can prevent the change of V As mentioned above in detail, according to the present invention, the value of V