# Process for the preparation of 2,2 paracyclophane.

## Abstract
Process for the preparation of 2,2 paracyclophane starting from p.methyl benzyl trimethyl ammonium halide, consisting in first preparing the p.methyl benzyl trimethyl ammonium hydroxide and successively subjecting the pro duct thus obtained to the HOFMANN Elimination in the presence of a biphasic system consisting of an inert organic solvent and an alkaline solution having a concentration of at least 20 by weight. The present invention refers to a process for the preparation of 2,2 paracyclophane of the general formula More particularly, the present invention relates to a process for the preparation of 2,2 paracyclophane of for mula I , starting from a p.methyl benzyl trimethyl ammonium halide of the formula

## Claims
What is claimed 1. Process for the preparation of 2,2 paracyclophane, starting from a p.methyl benzyl trimethyl ammonium halide, by means of a HOFMANN elimination reaction, characterized in that said process consists of the following steps or phases carried out separately and in the given order of succession a preparation of the p.methyl benzyl trimethyl ammonium hydroxide, and b a lIOFMANN elimination carried out on the p.methylA benzyl trimethyl ammonium hydroxide, in the presence of a biphasic system consisting of an inert organic solvent and of an aqueous solution of an alkaline hydroxide having a concentration of at least 20 by weight. 2. Process according to claim 1, characterized in that the concentration of the aqueous solution of an alkaline hydroxide is comprised between 30 and 50 by weight 3. Process accordinq to one or both of the claims 2,characterired in that trealkaline hydroxide is selected from the group consisting of sodium hydroxide and potassium hydroxide. 4. Process according to one or more of the claims 1 3, characterized in that the inert organic solvent is an aromatic hydrocarbon. 5. Process accordina to one or more of that claims 1 4,charactorized in that the HOFMANN elimination is carried out at a temperature comprised between 20 and 1300C and for a reaction time comprised between 10 and 70 hours. 6. Process accordinq to one or more of the claims 1 5, characterized in that the p.methyl benzyl trimethyl ammonium hydroxide is prepared by elution of an aqueous solution of a corresponding halide by passing said solution through a column filled with a basic ion exchanging resin.

## Description
BACKGROUND ul IE INVENTION The 2,2 paracyclophan is a well known prou ct and is mainly used as an intermediate in the preparation of poly p.xylilene, a polymer of high performances with reward to its capacity for coating surfaces. There have been suggested various different procedures for preparing the 2,2 paracyclophane I . Said known processes or procedures are not, hoxçever, altogether satisfac tory and do not lend themselves to practical application on an industrial scale. Thus, for instance, in organic Synthesis Collective , Volume 5, Hohn Whiley Jons Inc., New York, London, Sydney, Toronto, 1973, pp. 883 886, there is described a process for producing 2,2 paracyclophane through the HOFMANN elimination, starting from p.methyl benzyl trimethyl ammonium hydroxide by the reaction of the corresponding bromide with silver oxide. The The elimination is conducted in the presence of an inert organic solvent toluene and gives a yield of 10 116, with the formation of undesired polymeric by products. In order to improve the yield in the above cited process, in the European Patent Application No. 108,297, it is suggested that the HOFMANN elimination be carried out starting from from compound II in the presence of a base consisting of a sodium sodium or potassium hydroxide and of dimethylsulphoxide. This process allows to obtain high yields around 70 by weight . However, the recovery of the dimethylsulphoxide makes the i process relatively unattractive for an industrial application.Moreover, Moreover, the 2,2 paracvclophane obtained by this process is not altogether satisfactory as far as its purity is concerned. THE PRESENT INVENTION Thus, an object of tJ e present invention is that of providing a process for the preparation of 2,2 paracyclophane of formula I that is free of the above mentioned drawbacks. More particularly, an object of the present invention is to provide a simple and cheap process that results in 2,2 paracyclophane of formula I in the pure form, at industrially acceptable yields. We have now found that these and other objects can be achieved by a process for the preparation of p.methyl benzyltrimethyl ammonium halide of formula 11 , that consists in the following separate steps carried out in the given order a preparation of p.methyl benzyl trimethyl ammoniurn hydroxide, and b a HOFMANN elimination reaction carried out on the p methyl benzyl trimethyl ammonium hydroxide in the presence of a biphasic system consisting of an inert organic solvent and of an aqueous solution of an alkaline hydroxide having a con centration of at least 20 by weight. It is expressly pointed out that the two above reported procedural steps must be conducted in a strictly separate way and that the Hofmann elimination must be carried out on p.methyl benzyl trimethyl ammonium hydroxide essentially free of halogen ions. In fact, our tests have evidenced quite clearly that the presence of halogen ions negatively influences the liofmann elimination reaction, lowering its yield. The p.rnethyl benzyl trimethyl ammonium hydroxide may be prepared starting from the corresponding halide according to any known process In practice, it is preferable to prepare th P.methyl benzyl trimethyl amnonium hydroxide by elutng aVn aoueous solution ox a corresponuing LdliUe through a column filled with a basic ion exchanging resin. The liofmann elimination is conducted on the p methylbenzyl trimethyl ammonium hydroxide obtained in the first step or stage of the process, at a temperature comprised between 200 and 1300C, and for reaction times comprised between 10 and 70 hours, in the presence of a biphasic system consisting of an organic solvent and of an aqueous solution of an alkaline hydroxide having a concentration exceeding 20 by weight, but preferably comprised between 308 and 50 by weight. Preferred reaction times are comprised between 20 and 40 hours while the preferred temperatures are from 600 to 1000c, extremes included. Any inert organic solvent may be used in practicing the present process. Among these, the following are preferred aromatic hydrocarbons such as toluene, xylene, benzene, etc. At the end of the elimination reaction, the product formed can be separated according to known techniques that are substantially of conventional type. The process, object of the present invention, allows to obtain 2,2 paracyclophane of a high degree of purity, at industrially acceptable yields. The following examples are given to illustrate the invention in more detail and are not intended to be limiting. In all the examples given, where not specifically indicated otherwise, the percentages and ratios are by wight. EXAMPLE 1 Comparative An aqueous solution consisting of 150 g of p.methylbenzyl trimethyl ammonium chloride in 90 ml of water, was slowly added dropwise and under stirring, in a period of one hour, to a biphasic system maintained at a temperature of 90 C and consisting of a solution of 210 g.of NaOH in 240 ml of water and of 3 liters of toluene. Stirring and heating at 90 C were carried out for 40 hours. The reaction mixture was then filtered, the water toluene phases were separated, the organic phase was washed with water, concentrated and finally cooled down. Thereby, by precipitation, there were obtained 15.5 g of 2,2 paracyclophane with a yield of 20 by weight , showing a melt point of between 2800 and 2B20. EXAMPLE 2 Comparative To 25 ml of an aqueous solution 2 N of p.methyl benzyl trimethyl ammonium hydroxide density 1.03 g ml were added 200 ml of toluene and 2 g of NaOH, corresponding to 10 by weight. The system was allowed to react un ir constant stir ring at 900C, for 40 hours. Thereafter, the phases were separated and the organic phase was washed with water and then evaporated to dryness. Only traces of 2,2 paracyclophane were found. EXAMPLE 3 A Preparation of tht p.nltthyl bcn zyl trimethyl ammonium hydroxide 20 g of p,methyl benzyl trimethyl ammonium chloride dissolved in 300 ml of water were eluted in 3 hours through a column filled with a strong ion exchanging basic resin,DOWEX 1 X8 50 100 mesh , said resin having preliminarily been converted to the hydroxide ion form by means of a treatment with a 3 M solution of NaOH. For the exchange there was used a volume of humid moist resin equal to 350 ml. B To 125 ml of an aqueous solution 0.4 N of p.methyl benzyl trimethyl ammonium hydroxide, as prepared above, were admixed carefully and under stirring 125 ml of xylene and 78 g of NaOH, corresponding to 40 by weight. This reaction mixture was then kept under stirring for 50 hours at 600 650C.Thereupon, the reaction mass was refluxed in order to solubilize all the 2,2 paracyclophane that had been formed. The mass was then filtered in order to separate the polymer the phases were separated and the organic phase was washed with water and then concentrated. By refrigeration, there precipitated 2.15 g of 2,2 paracyclophane with a yield of 40E by weight which showed a melt point comprised between 283 and 2860C. EXEMPLE 4 p.methyl benzyl trimethyl ammonium hydroxide was prepared according to the procedures described in Example 3A. Following the operational steps indicated in Example 3B, to 125 ml of an aqueous solution 0.4 M of p.methyl benzyltrimethyl ammonium hydroxide, there were added 125 ml of zylene and 130 ml of KOH minimum titer 8583. After 40 hours of heating at 60 65 C, there were obtained 2.2 g of 2,2 paracyclophane with a melt point comprised between 283 and 2860C.