# Unsaturated fatty acid derivatives and their production.

## Abstract
A compound of the formula

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A compound of the formula EMI68.1 wherein Y is a free or esterified carboxyl group, or a group of the formula EMI68.2 wherein Ra and Rb are each independently a hydrogen atom, a C1 C4 alkyl group, a C c cycloalkyl group, a benzyl 3 7 group, a phenyl group, a phenyl group substituted with a halogen atom or a C1 C4 alkyl group, or, when taken together with the adjacent nitrogen atom, they represent a.5 to 7 membered saturated heterocyclic group R1 is a C1 C12 alkyl group, a C2 C12 alkenyl group, a C 2 C12 alkynyl group, a C3 C10 cycloalkyl group, a C4 C10 cycloalkenyl group, a hydroxy C1 C12 alkyl group, an C1 C12 alkyl group substituted with a group of the formula EMI68.3 wherein Rc and Rd are each independently a hydrogen atom, or a C1 C4 alkyl group , a C3 C10 heterocyclic group, a phenyl group optionally substituted with one to three substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen atom, hydroxy group, C1 C4 alkyl group, trifluoromethyl group, C1 C4 alkoxy group, and group of the formula EMI69.1 wherein Rc and Rd are as defined above or a group of the formula A B wherein A is a C1 C7 alkylene chain and B is a C3 C10 cycloalkyl group, aC4 C10 cycloalkenyl group, a Cl C12 alkoxy group, a Cl Cl2 alkylthio group, a C3 C10 cycloalkoxy group, aC4 C10 cycloalkenyloxy group, a C3 C10 heterocyclic group, or a phenyl or phenoxy group optionally substituted with one to three substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen atom, hydroxy group, C1 C4 alkyl group, group of the formula EMI69.2 wherein Rc and Rd are as defined above , trifluoromethyl group, C1 C4 alkylthio group and C1 C4 alkoxy group n is 2, 3 or 4 R2 and R3 are hydrogen atoms or, when taken together, they mean a single linkage to form a trans double bond between the adjacent carbon atoms, and E is a cis or trans vinylene group provided that when n is 3 and R1 is a n octyl group, a 2 octenyl group or a 2,5 octadienyl group, Rê and R are hydrogen atoms, and that when n is 2, E is a trans vinylene group. 2. The compound according to Claim 1, wherein Y is a group of the formula EMI69.3 wherein Ra and Rb are each independently a hydrogen atom, a C1 C4 alkyl group, or, when taken together with the adjacent nitrogen atom, they represent a 5 to 7 membered saturated heterocyclic groupl R1 is a Cl Cl2 alkyl group, a C2 C12 alkeny group, a C2 C12 alkynyl group, aC3 C10 cycloalkyl group, or a group of the formula A B tA is a C1 C7 alkylene chain and B is a C3 C1O cycloalkyl group, a Cl C12 alkoxy group, or a phenyl or phenoxy group optionally substituted with one to three substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen atom, C1 C4 alkyl group, group of the formula EMI70.1 wherein Rc and Rd are each independently a C1 C4 alkyl group , trifluoromethyl group, and C1 C4 alkoxy group . 3. The compound according to Claim 1, which is represented by the formula EMI70.2 wherein R1, R2, R3, n and Y are each as defined in Claim 1. 4. The compound according to Claim 1 or 2 whereinE is a trans vinylene group and Rê and R are combined to mean a single linkage to form a trans double bond between the adjacent carbon atoms. 5. The compound according to Claim 1 or 2 whereinE is acids vinylene group n is 3 or 4 and R2 and R3 mean a single linkage to form a trana double bond between the adjacent carbon atoms. 6. The compound according to Claim 1, which is represented by the formula EMI71.1 wherein R1 and Y are each as defined in Claim 1. 7. The compound according to Claim 1, which is represented by the formula EMI71.2 wherein R1 and Y are each as defined in Claim 1. 8. The compound according to Claim 2, which is represented by the formula EMI71.3 wherein R1 and Y are each as defined in Claim 2. 9. The compound according to Claim 2, which is represented by the formula EMI71.4 wherein R1 and Y are each as defined in Claim 2. 10. The compound according to Claim 1, wherein n is 3 or 4. 11. A compound according to Claim 1, wherein R1 is a group of the formula A B. 2. A compound according to Claim 11, wherein n is 3. 13. The compound according to Claim 1, wherein E is a trans vinylene group, and n 2. 14. 5E,7E,9E N,N dimethyl 4,11 dihydroxy nonadeca5,7,9 trienamide. 15. 5E,7E,9E N,N dimethyl 4,11 dihydrox 13 4 methoxyphenyl trideca 5,7,9 trienamide. 16. 5E,7E,9E N,N tetramethylene 4,11 dihydroxy13 4 methoxyphenyl trideca 5,7,9 trienamide. 17. 6Z,8E,10E N,N dimethyl 5,12 dihydroxy 14 4t methoxyphenyl tetradeca 6,8,10 trienamide. 18. 5E,7E,9E N,N tetramethylene 4,11 dihydroxy 13 3 ,4 dichlorophenyl trideca 5,7,9 trienamide. 19. A process for producing a compound of the formula EMI72.1 wherein R1, R2, R3, E, n and Y are each as defined inClaim 1, and its non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable salt, which comprises reacting a compound of the formula EMI73.1 wherein R1, R2, R3, E and n are as defined above Q2 is a hydrogen atom or an acyl group and Z is an esterified carboxyl group or a group of the formula EMI73.2 wherein Ra and Rb are as defined in Claim 1 , with a reducing agent optionally followed by deprotection of a protected hydroxyl group, hydrolysis of an ester group, esterification of a carboxyl group, amidation of a free or esterified carboxyl group, and or transesterification. 20. A process for producing a compound of the formula EMI73.3 wherein R1, R , R3, n and Y are each as defined in Claim 1, or its non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable salt, which comprises reacting a compound of the formula EMI74.1 wherein RÚ, Rê, R and n are each as defined in Claim 1, and R4 is a C1 C4 alkyl group, W is an oxygen atom, or a group of the formula EMI74.2 Q is an acyl group or a substituted alkoxymethyl group which forms acetal with the adjoining oxygen atom , with a reducing agent optionally followed by deprotection of a protected hydroxyl group, hydrolysis of an ester group, esterification of a carboxyl group, amidation of a free or esterified carboxyl group, and or transesterification. 21. A process for producing a compound of the formula EMI74.3 wherein m is 3 or 4, and R1, R , R3 and Y are each as defined in Claim 1, and its non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable salt, which comprises reacting a compound of the formula EMI74.4 wherein R1, R2 and R3 are each as defined in Claim 1, with an organometallic compound of the formula MÚ CH2 m C OR5 3 wherein M1 is a lithium atom or a group of the formula MgX X is a chlorine atom, a bromine atom or an iodine atom R5 is a C C1 C4 alkyl group, and m is 3 or 4, followed by transformation of an orthoester group to an ester group, and optionally followed by hydrolysis of an ester group, esterification of a carboxyl group, amidation of a free or esterified carboxyl group and or transesterification. 22. A compound of the formula EMI75.1 wherein R1, R2, R3, E, Qê, n and Z are each as defined in Claim 19. 23. A compound of the formula EMI75.2 wherein RÚ, Rê, R , R4, W and n are each as defined inClaim 20. 24. A pharmaceutical composition which comprises a compound as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 18 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. 25. Use of a compound as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 18 for the preparation of7anti leucotriene B4 drug.

## Description
UNSATURATED FATTY ACID DERIVATIVES AND THEIR PRODUCTION The present invention relates to novel unsaturated fatty acids and their production. More pasticularly, this invention relates to novel unsaturated fatty acids, to processes for production thereof and to pharmaceutical compositions containing at least one of the unsaturated fatty acids. The novel unsaturated fatty acids provided by the present invention are those represented by the formula I EMI1.1 wherein Y is a free or esterified carboxyl group, or a group of the formula EMI1.2 wherein Ra and Rb are each independently a hydrogen atom, a C1 C4 alkyl group, a C3 C7 cycloalkyl group, a benzyl group, a phenyl group, a phenyl group substituted with a halogen atom or a C1 C4 alkyl group, or, when taken together with the adjacent nitrogen atom, they represent a 5 to 7 membered saturated heterocyclic group R1 is aC1 C12 alkyl group, a C2 C12 alkenyl group, a C2 C12 alkynyl group, a C3 Clo cycloalkyl group, a C4 C10 cycloalkenyl group, a hydroxy Cl Cl2 alkyl group, a Cl Cl2 alkyl group substituted with a group of the formula EMI2.1 wherein RC and Rd are each independently a hydrogen atom, or a C1 C4 alkyl group , a C3 C10 heterocyclic group, a phenyl group optiqnally substituted with one to three substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen atom, hydroxyl group, C1 C4 alkyl group, trifluoromethyl group, C1 C4 alkoxy group, and group of the formula EMI2.2 wherein RC and Rd are as defined above or a group of the formula A B wherein A is a C1 C7 alkylene chain and B is a C3 C10 cycloalkyl group, a C4 C10 cycloalkenyl group, a C1 C12 alkoxy group, a C1 C12 alkylthio group, a C3 C10 cycloalkoxy group, a C4 C10 cycloalkenyloxy group, a C3 C10 heterocyclic group, or a phenyl or phenoxy group optionally substituted with one to three substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen atom, hydroxy group, C1 C4 alkyl group, group of the formula EMI2.3 wherein Rc and Rd are as defined above , tri fluoromethyl group, C1 C4 alkylthio group and C1 C4 alkoxy group n is 2, 3 or 4 Rê and R3 are hydrogen atoms or, when taken together, they mean a single linkage to form a trans double bond between the adjacent carbon atoms, and E is a cis or trans vinylene group provided that when n is 3 and RÚ is a n octyl group, a 2 octenyl group or a 2,5 octadienyl group, R2 and R3 are hydrogen atqms, and that when n is 2, E is a trans vinylene group. In the significances as used above, the term halogen includes fluorine, chlorine, bromine and iodine the terms C1 C4 alkyl , C1 c4 alkoxy and C1 C4 alkylthio each means a straight or branched chain alkyl, alkoxy or alkylthio group having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms e.g. methyl, ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl, n butyl, methoxy, ethoxy, n propoxy, methylthio, ethylthio, isopropoxy, n butoxy, etc. . The term C1 C12 alkyl in the following cases, Cl Cl2 alkyl and C1 C12 alkyl in the Cl Cl2 alkoxy group and Cl Cl2 alkyl in the Cl Cl2 alkylthio group , means a straight or branched chain alkyl group having from one to 12 carbon atoms e.g. methyl, ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl, n butyl, isobutyl, n pentyl, isopentyl, 1methylpentyl, 2 methylpentyl, l,l dimethylpentyl, 1ethylpentyl, 2 ethylpentyl, n hexyl, l methylhexyl, 2methylhexyl, 3 methylhexyl, heptyl, 1 methylheptyl, 2methylheptyl, l ethylheptyl, 2 ethylheptyl, n octyl, 1methyloctyl, 2 methyloctyl, l ethyloctyl, 2 ethyloctyl, 2,6 dimethylheptyl, 1,6 dimethylheptyl, n nonyl, 1 methylnonyl, 2 methylnonyl, n decyl, l methyldecyl, 2methyldecyl, 2 ethyldecyl ect. . The terms C2 C12 alkenyl and C2 C12 alkynyl each means a straight or branched chain alkenyl or alkynyl group having from 2 to 12 carbon atoms e.g.vinyl, 2 propenyl, 2 butenyl, 2 pentenyl, 2 hexenyl, heptenyl, 6 methyl 5 heptenyl, 2,6 dimethyl 5 heptenyl, 3 pentenyl, 4 pentenyl, 2, 6 dimethyl 5 octenyl, 1,1,6trimethyl 5 heptenyl, 4,8 dimethyl 7 nonenyl, 2,6dimethyl 1,5 heptadienyl, 2 propynyl, l methylenepentyl, 2 butynyl, 2 pentynyl, 3 pentynyl, l methyl 3 pentynyl, 4 pentynyl, 4 hexynyl, 5 heptynyl, 6 heptynyl, 2 methyl5 heptynyl, etc. . The term C3 C10 cycloalkyl in the both cases, C3 C10 cycloalkyl and C3 C10 cycloalkyl in the C3 C10 cycloalkoxy group means a cyclic alkyl group which is optionally substituted with a C1 C4 alkyl or alkenyl group and which has from 3 to 10 carbon atoms e.g.cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl, 2 isopropylidenemethyl 3, 3 dimethylcyclo propyl, 2 propylcyclopropyl, 3 ethylcyclobutyl, 3 ethylcyclopentyl, 4 methylcyclohexyl, 3 ethylcyclohexy, 4methylcycloheptyl, 2 isopropyl 5 methylcyclohexyl, norbornyl, adamantyl etc. . The term C4 C10 cycloalkenyl in the both cases, C4 C10 cycloalkenyl and C4 C10 cycloalkenyl in the C4 C10 cycloalkenyloxy means a cyclic alkenyl group having from 4 to 10 carbon atoms e.g. bicyclo 4,3,0 nona 3 en 8 yl, 3 cyclopentenyl, 3 cyclohexenyl, 3 cycloheptenyl, tetrahydro 2 indanyl etc. . The term hydroxy C1 C12 alkyl means a straight or branched alkyl group which has from one to 12 carbon atoms and which is substituted with a hydroxy group e.g. hydroxyme thyl, 2 hydroxyeth yl, 3 hydroxypropyl, 4hydroxybutyl, 5 hydroxypentyl, 6 hydroxyhexyl, 7hydroxyheptyl, 8 hydroxyoctyl, 10 hydroxydecyl, 5 hydroxyhexyl, 4 hydroxypentyl, 5 hydroxy l , 1 dimethyl pentyl, 5 hydroxy 2 methylpentyl, 5 hydroxy l methylpentyl, 6 hydroxy 2 methylhexyl etc. . The term C3 C10 heterocyclic group means a monocyclic or dicyclic group having from 3 to 10 carbon atoms and at least one of hetero atoms selected from nitrogen atoms, sulfur atoms, and oxygen atoms e.g. piperidine, morpholine, pyrrolidine, piperazine, tetrahydrofuran, tetrahydrothiophene, furan, thiophene, imidazole, pyridine, oxazole, isooxazole, pyrrole, pyrazole, pyrimidine, indole, benzofuran, purine, benzothiophene, quinoline, pyrrolidone, dihydrothiophene, dihydrobenzofuran, 1,4 benzodioxane, etc. . The term C1 C7 alkylene means a straight or branched alkylene chain having from one to 7 carbon atoms e.g. methylene, ethylene, trimethylene, tetramethylene, pentamethylene, hexamethylene, heptamethylene, methylmethylene, dimethylmethylene, 1 ,1 dimethylethylene, 2methyltetramethylene, l methylpentamethylene, 2 methylhexamethylene, l ethylethylene, 2 ethylethylene, 2 ethyltrimethylene, etc. . The term t5 to 7 membered saturated heterocyclic group includes piperidine, morpholine, pyrrolidine, homopiperidine, piperazine, N C1 C4 alkylpiperazine, etc. The term C3 C7 cycloalkyl means a cyclic alkyl group which is optionally substituted with a C1 C4 alkyl group and which has from 3 to 7 carbon atoms e.g.cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl, 3 ethylcyclopentyl, 4 methylcyclohexyl, ect. . The term esterified carboxyl group includes C1 C4 alkoxycarbonyl, aryloxycarbonyl e.g. phenoxycarbo nyl, naphthoxycarbonyl , aralkyloxycarbonyl e.g.benzyloxycarbonyl, phenethyloxycarbonyl , C1 C4 alkoxy methoxycarbonyl, C2 C5 alkanoyloxy methoxycarbonyl e.g.acetoxymethoxycarbonyl , C3 C7 cycloalkyloxy carbonyl, arylcarbonylmethoxycarbonyl and hydroxy C1 C4 alkoxy carbonyl. In 1979 B. Sammuelsson reported isolation and biological effects of leucotrienes Sammuelsson, B. et al. 1980 In Advances in Prostaglandin and ThronboxaneResearch, Vol. 6, edited by B. Sammuelsson, R. Ramwell, and R. Paaletti, P. 1. Raven Press, New York . Since then, a tremendous amount of research in synthetic organic chemistry and pharmacology of leucotriene A4 B4 C4, D4 etc. has been performed. teucotrienes induce an increase in capillary permeability and cause smooth muscle contraction.Furthermore leucotriene B4, one of leucotrienes which is shown below, has also different pharmacological properties from the others. It is chemotactic for macropharges and neutrophils at concentrations of,l ng ml greater than any other known lipid chemotactic factor .It is detected in the synovia of patients with rheumatoid arthritis or gouty arthritis, and in the sputum of obstructive airways diseases. They suggest that it is a primary mediator of inflammatory and allergic states.So, we have been making research to find novel types of drugs for use against inflammatory or allergic states.EMI7.1 Leucotriene B4 As the result of studies, it has now been found that the novel unsaturated fatty acids I3 of the present invention and their non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable salts, have potent anti leucotriene B4 action which include anti chemotactic activity, etc. This action may render these compounds very useful as the drugs for such inflammations or allergies. Accordingly, a basic object of the present invention is to provide the novel unsaturated fatty acids I3 having excellent pharmacological activities. Another object of the present invention is to provide processes for producing those compounds I . A further object of the present invention is to provide a pharmaceutical composition containing a compound of the formula I . These and other objects will be apparent to those skilled in the art to which the present invention.pertains from the foregoing and subsequent descriptions. The novel unsaturated fatty acids I of the invention. can be. prepared from the compound of the formula II EMI8.1 wherein Qê is a hydrogen atom or an acyl group, Z is an esterfied carboxyl group or a group of the formula EMI8.2 wherein Ra and Rb are as defined above , and R1 ,R2,R3, E and n are as defined above, by reacting the latter with a reducing agent, optionally followed by deprotection of a protected hydroxyl group, hydrolysis of an ester group, esterification of a carboxyl group, amidation of a free or esterified carboxyl group, and or transesterification. In the significances as used above, the term an acyl group means a C1 C4 alkanoyl group, a benzoyl group or a substituted benzoyl group e.g. acetyl, propionyl, benzoyl, p phenyl benzoyl, etc. . A part of the unsaturated fatty acids I can be also prepared by the following two methods. The unsaturated fatty acids of the formula III EMI9.1 wherein R1, R2, R3, n and.Y are each as defined above, which are part of the unsaturated fatty acids I , can be obtained from a carbonyl compound of the formula IV EMI9.2 wherein R1, R2, R3, and n are each as defined above, R4 is a C1 C4 alkyl group, and W is an oxygen atom or a group of the formula EMI9.3 wherein Q5 is an acyl group or a substituted alkoxymethyl group which forms acetal with the adjoining oxygen atom , by reacting the latter with a reducing agent, optionally followed by deprotection of a protected hydroxyl group, hydrolysis of an ester group, esterifi cation of a carboxyl group, amidation of a free or esterified carboxyl group, and or transesterification.In the significances as used above, the term a substituted alkoxymethyl group means a protective group of a hydroxyl group such as tetrahydropyranyl, tetrahydrofuranyl, l ethoxyethyl, etc. The unsaturated fatty acids V EMI10.1 wherein m is 3 or 4, R1, R2, R3 and Y are each as defined above, which are part of the unsaturated fatty acids I , can be obtained from aldehydes of the formula VI EMI10.2 OH R wherein RÚ, Rê and R are each as defined above, by reacting the latter with an organometallic compound of the formula VII MÚ CH2 m C OR5 3 VII wherein MÚ is a lithium atom or a group of the formula MgX X is a chlorine atom, a bromine atom or an iodine atom , R5 is a C1 C4 alkyl group, and m is 3 or 4, followed by transformation of an orthoester group to an ester group, and optionally followed by hydrolysis of an ester group, esterification of a carboxyl group, amidation of a free or esterified carboxyl group and or transesterification. The sequence of the steps from the carbonyl compounds II , IV and VI to the respective unsaturated fatty acids I , III and V may be represented by the following scheme.EMI11.1 Scheme A STEP 1. Reduction of the carbonyl compounds II and IV to the respective unsaturated fatty acids I and 1113. The carbonyl compound or IV can be converted into the corresponding alcohol by reacting the former with a reducing agent in an inert solvent e.g. THF, ether, dimethoxyethane, pentane, hexane, benzene, toluene, methanol, ethanol, etc. at a temperature in the range from 780C to room temperature. As the reducing agent, there may be used for example trialkylborohydride e.g. lithium triisobutyl borohydride , bis 2,4,6 tri t butylphenoxy aluminum hydride, sodium borohydride, zinc borohydride, diisobutyl aluminum hydride, ethoxy 1,1 binaphthyl 2,2 dioxy aluminum lithium hydride, sodium trimethoxyaluminum hydride, sodium trimethoxyborohydride, etc. The deprotection of a protected hydroxyl group can be carried out by the conventional procedure tProtective Group in Organic Chemistry. Edited by J. F. W. McOmie 1973 95 143 . STEP 2. Reaction of the aldehyde VIJ with an organo metallic compound VII The aldehyde VI can be converted into the corresponding intermediate ortho ester by reacting of the former with an organometallic compound VII in an inert solvent e.g. ether, THF at a temperature in the range from 780C to room temperature. The organometallic compound VII can be prepared by reacting a halide of the formula fVIII X CH2 m C OR5 3 XIII wherein X, m and R5 are each as defined above, with lithium or magnesium. If magnesium is selected in this reaction, active magnesium is preferably used J. Org.Chem., 46, 4323 1981 . The halide VIII can be prepared by the method of the literature R. H. Dewolfe, Synthesis, 1974, 153 . The transformation of an orthoester group to an ester group can be carried out by treating an orthoester compound with an acid e.g. hydrogen chloride, silica gel, etc. in an inert solvent e.g. methanol,THF, ethyl acetate, etc. at a temperature in the range from 300C to room temperature. The steps of hydrolysis of an esterified carboxyl group, esterification of a carboxyl group, amidation of a free or esterified carboxyl group and transesterification may be represented by the following scheme. EMI14.1 Scheme B Amidation of an esterified carboxyl group can be carried out by treating an ester compound Ib with an amine fIX in an inert solvent e.g. DMF, methanol, ethanol, THF, water at a temperature in the range from room temperature to the boiling temperature of the solvent. Amidation of a carboxyl compound Ia , hydrolysis of an ester compound Ib , esterification of a carboxyl compound, and transesterification of an ester compound IbJ can be carried out by conventional procedures. The carbonyl compound II used as an intermediate in the present invention can be prepared by the two methods shown in the following scheme.EMI15.1 Scheme CIn the formulas illustrated in the scheme C, R1, R2, R3, R5, E, n, m, Qê and Z are each as defined above, and is an acyl group. Wittig reaction of the aldehyde X into the carbonyl compound IIa which is part of II , can be accomplished by reacting the former with a compound of the formula XII or XIII EMI15.2 wherein R6 is C1 C4 alkyl group, Ph is a phenyP group and R1 is as defined above, in an inert solvent e.g.dioxane, ether, THF, dimethoxyethane, benzene, toluene, n hexane, DMSO at a temperature in the range from 300C to the boiling temperature of the solvent, optionally followed by deprotection of a protected hydroxyl group. Wittig Reaction of the aldehyde XI into the carbonyl compound IIb which is part of II , can be carried out by the same method as used in the synthesis of the carbonyl compound lIa from the aldehyde X , optionally followed by protection of a hydroxyl group. The aldehyde X can be prepared from a diol compound XIV3 by the process shown in the following scheme.EMI16.1 EMI17.1 Scheme D In the formulas illustrated in the scheme D,Q is a substituted alkoxymethyl group which forms an acetal with the adjoining oxygen atom, R9 and R10 are hydrogen atoms or, when taken together, mean a single linkage to form a cis or trans double bond between the adjacent carbon atoms, and R2 R3, R4, n, Z and Q4 are each as defined above. The detailed explanation of scheme D is as follows Mono protection of the diol 1XIV into the compound Xv can be accomplished by treating the former an with a reagent which makes Acetal by reacting itself with a hydroxy group e.g. 3,4 dihydro 2H pyran, 5,6 dihydro 4 methoxy 2H pyran, ethyl vinyl ether, etc. in the presence of a catalytic amount of an acid e.g.sulfuric acid, p toluenesulfonic acid, pyridinium 4toluenesulfonate in an inert solvent e.g. methylene chloride, THF at a temperature in the range from 0 C to sooc. Oxidation of the compound XV to the aldehyde XVI can be carried out by reacting the former with a chromium compound e.g. pyridinium chlorochromate, chromium trioxide pyridine complex Collins reagent in an inert solvent Ce.g. methylene chloride, chloroform at a temperature in the range from 20 C to 400C, followed by isomerization of the cis double bond into the trans double bond by reacting it with a base, in case that R9 and R10 mean a single linkage to form a cis double bond in the formula XV . In case that R and R10 mean a single linkage to form a cis or trans double bond in the formula XV , oxidation of the compound XV into the aldehyde XVI can be also carried out by reacting the former with active manganese dioxide in an inert solvent e.g. methylene chloride, chloroform, benzene at a temperature in the range from 0 C to the boiling temperature of the solvent, followed by isomerization of the cis double bond into the trans double bond by reacting it with a base, in case that R9 and R10 mean a sigle linkage to form a cis double bond in the formula xv3. The ester tXVII can be obtained from the aldehyde XVI by reacting the latter with the compound of the formula XXI or XXII EMI19.1 wherein Ph, R4, R6 and n are each as defined above in an inert solvent e.g. N,N dimethylformamide, THF, ether, dimethoxyethane, benzene, toluene, n hexane,DMSO at a temperature in the range from 300C to the boiling temperature of the solvent, The ester XVII can be converted into the compound XVIIIJ by the same procedure as used in the synthesis of the unsaturated fatty acids I3 from the carbonyl compound LII . The compound XVIII can be converted into the compound XIX by treating the former with an acyl halide or an acid anhydride e.g. acetic anhydride, acetyl chio ride, benzoyl chloride, propionyl chloride in the presence of a base e.g. pyridine, triethylamine, 4 N,N dimethylaminopyridine in an inert solvent e.g. methylene chloride, THF at a temperature in the range from 0 C to 50 C. The compound XIX can be converted into the compound lXXJ by the conventional procedure. The compound lXXJ can be converted into the aldehyde tX by the same procedure as used in the synthesis of the aldehyde XVI from the compound XV . The aldehyde XI can be prepared from the aldehyde XXIII by the process shown in the following scheme.EMI20.1 EMI21.1 Scheme E In the formulas illustrated in the scheme E, 7 a C1 C4 alkyl group, and R2, R31 E, m and R5 are each as defined above. Detailed explanation of the scheme E The ester XXIV can be obtained from the aldehyde fXXTII by the same procedure as used in the synthesis of the unsaturated fatty acids V from the aldehyde VI3. Partial reduction of the ester XXIV to the aldehyde XI can be carried out by reacting the former with a reducing agent e.q. diisobutylaluminum hydride in an inert solvent e.q. n hexane, toluene, tetrahydrofuran at a temperature in the range from 780C to 300C, followed by treating the resulting compound with an acid e.g. hydrogen chloride, silica gel in an inert solvent e.g. methanol, THF, ethyl acetate at a temperature in the range from 300C to room temperature. The ester of the formula XXIVa EMI22.1 wherein R7, E, m and R5 are each as defined above, which is part of the ester fXXIV can be converted into the alcohol XXV by reacting the former with a reducing agent e.g. sodium trimethoxyaluminum hydride, lithium tri s butylborohydride, diisobutylalunnum hydride in an inert solvent erg. THF, ether at a temperature in the range from 780C to room temperature, followed by treating the resulting compound with an acid e.g.hydrogen chloride, silica gel in an inert solvent e.g.methanol, THF, ethyl acetate at a temperature in the range from 300C to room temperature. The alcohol XXVJ can be also converted into the aldehyde of the formula XIaJ EMI22.2 wherein E, m and R5 are as defined above, by reacting the former with active manganese dioxide in an inert solvent e.g. methylene chloride, chloroform, benzene, ethyl acetate at a temperature in the range from 0 C to the boiling temperature of the solvent. In case that E is a cis vinylene group in the formula XXVJ or XIa , isomerization of a cis olefin into a trans olefin in the compound XXV or XIa can be easily accomplished by treating with an acid e.g.hydrogen chloride . The carbonyl compound IV3 used as an intermediate in the present invention can be prepared by the following scheme.EMI23.1 EMI24.1 Scheme F In the formulas illustrated in the scheme F,R1, Rê, R , R4 R9, R10, Q5 and n are each as defined above, and Q1 is an acyl group, when Q5 is a substituted alkoxymethyl group which forms acetal with the adjoining oxygen atom, or Q1 is a substituted alkoxymethyl group which forms acetal with the adjoining oxygen atom, when is an acyl group, Detailed explanation of the scheme F Mono protection of the diol XIV to form tbe compound XXXVIII can be accomplished by the same procedure as used in the synthesis of the compound XV starting from the diol XIV or in the synthesis of the compound Xix from the compound XVIIIJ, or by continuous extraction from the aqueous solution of the diol XIVJ containing acetic acid in the presence of an acid e.g.sulfuric acid with a non polar solvent e.g. benzene, hexane at a temperature in the range from 0 C to 500C. The compound XXXVIIIJ can be converted into the aldehyde XXXIX by the same procedure as used in the synthesis of the aldehyde XVI from the compound XV , The aldehyde XXXIX can be converted into the ester IXL by the same procedure as used in the synthesis of the compound XVII3 from the aldehyde XVI . The ester XL3 can be converted into the alcohol XXVI by the conventional procedure. The alcohol XXVI can be converted into the aldehyde XXVII by the same procedure as used in the synthesis of the aldehyde XVI from the alcohol XV . The aldehyde XXVII3 can be converted into the carbonyl compound IVa3 which is part of the carbonyl compound IV , by the same procedure as used in the synthesis of the carbonyl compound IIa from the aldehyde fX . The carbonyl compound IVa can be also prepared in the following way. The aldehyde XXXIX can be converted into the compound XXVIII by the same procedure as used in the synthesis of the carbonyl compound rIIa from the aldehyde IX . The compound fXXVIII can be converted into the alcohol XXIX by the conventional procedure. The alcohol XXIXJ can be converted into the aldehyde lXXX by the same procedure as used in the synthesis of the aldehyde XVI from the alcohol XV . The aldehyde XXX can be converted into the carbonyl compound IVa by the same procedure as used in the synthesis of the ester XVII from the aldehyde XVI . The carbonyl compound IVb , which is part of the carbonyl compound IV3, can be prepared in the following way. The reduction of the compound lXXVIIIJ into the alcohol lXXXI can be accomplished by the same procedure as used in the synthesis of the unsaturated fatty acid I from the carbonyl compound II . The compound lXXXI3 can be converted into the compound XXXII3 by the same procedure as used in the synthesis of the compound XV from the diol XIV , when Q1 is an acyl group in the formula XXXI , or by the same procedure as used in the synthesis of the compound XIX from the compound XVIII , when QÚ is a substituted alkoxymethyl group. The compound XXXII3 can be converted into the compound XXXIII by a conventional procedure. The compound XXXIII can be converted into the aldehyde XXXIV by the same procedure as used in the synthesis of the aldehyde XVI from the alcohol XVJ. The aldehyde XXXIVJ can be converted into the carbonyl compound IVb by the same procedure as used in the synthesis of the ester XVII from the aldehyde XVI . The aldehyde VIJ used as an intermediate in the present invention can be prepared by the following scheme.EMI27.1 Scheme G In the formulas illustrated in the scheme G, 8 1 2 3 R is a C1 C4 alkyl group, R , R and R are each as defined above. Detailed explanation of the scheme G Wittig reaction of the aldehyde XXXV into the compound XXXVI can be carried out by the same procedure as used in the synthesis of the carbonyl compound IIaJ from the aldehyde X . Partial reduction of the ester XXXVI into the aldehyde VI can be accomplished by the same procedure as used in the synthesis of the aldehyde XI from the ester XXIV . Reduction of the ester iXXXVI into the alcohol XXXVII can be carried out by the same procedure as used in the synthesis of the alcohol XXV from the ester XXIVa3. The alcohol XXXVII can be converted into the aldehyde VI by the same procedure as used in the synthesis of the aldehyde XIaJ from the alcohol XXV . According to the present invention, the two stereoisomers of the formulas EMI28.1 which include their corresponding enantiomers, can be prepared. In general, the unsaturated fatty acid I can be obtained as a mixture of these stereoisomers, which can be easily separated by a conventional method te.g. PLY with high purity. If necessary, a cis or trans isomer of a double bond in the unsaturated fatty acid I can be separated by a conventional method e.g. HPLC . the Furthermore, unsaturated fatty acid I can be separated into optical isomers by a conventional method. Among the unsaturated fatty acids I thus obtained, the compound fiat can be converted to its pharmaceutically acceptable salt form. The pharmaceutically acceptable salts of these unsaturated fatty acids are those with pharmaceutically acceptable metal catiorssuch as sodium, potassium, magnesium and calcium, ammonium or amine cations. The preparation of pharmaceutical compositions can be carried out by a conventional method. For example, the unsaturated fatty acids I may be mixed with carriers, diluents, lubricants, fillers and or binders such as lactose, sucrose, calcium phosphate, starch, talcum, casein, magnesium stearate, methyl cellulose, polyglycols, tragacanth and the like, sometimes together with stabilizers and emulsifying agents. The resulting mixture may be processed in a usual manner to tablets, capsules, pills, ampoules and the like. In a clinical practice, the unsaturated fatty acids fli can be administered orally, intranasally, subcutaneously, intravenously, intramuscularly, intradermally or the like. The daily dosage may vary depending upon the administration route and the usual oral dosage of the active ingreident is between about 0.1 mg and about 100 mg daily for human beings. Specific examples of the unsaturated fatty acid I are as follows 6Z,8E,10E 5,12 dihydroxy nonadeca 6,8,10 trienoic acid 6Z,8E,10E,15Z methyl 5,12 dihydroxy eicosa 6,8,10,15 tetraenoate 6Z,8E,10E N,N dimethyl 5,12 dihydroxy eicosa 6,8,10 triene 1 4 ynami de o 6Z,8E,lOE methyl 5,12 dihydroxy 12 cyclohexyl dodeca 6,8,10 trienoate 6Z,10E 5,12,20 trihydroxy eicosa 6,10 dienamide 6Z,8E,lOE 5,12 dihydroxy 12 m chlorophenyl dodeca 6,8,10 trienoic acid 6Z,8E,10E methyl 5,12 dihydroxy 12 p trifluoro methylphenyl dodeca 6,8,10 trienoate 6Z,lOE 5,12 dihydroxy 14 phenyl tetradeca 6,10 dienoic acid 6E,8E,10E 5, 12 dihydroxy 13 cyclohexyl trideca 6,8,10 trienoic acid 6Z,8E,10E 5,12 dihydroxy 13 phenoxy trideca 6,8,10 trienoic acid 6Z,lOE 5,12 dihydroxy 14 ethoxy tetradeca 6,10 dienoic acid 6Z,lOE N,N dimethyl 5,12 dihydroxy 14 p methylphenyl tetradeca 6,10 dienamide 7Z,9E,11E methyl 6,13 dihydroxy 13 cyclopentyl trideca 7,9,11 trienoate 7Z,llE 6,13 dihydroxy 19 dimethylamino nonadeca 7,11 dienamide 7Z,9E,11E methyl 6,13 dihydroxy 14 m chlorophenoxy tetradeca 7,9,11 trienoate 7E,9E,11E N,N diethyl 6,13 dihydroxy 15 p dimethyl aminophenyl pentadeca 7,9,11 trienamide 6Z,10E N,N tetramethylene 5,121 dihydroxy 12 p hydroxyphenyl dodeca 6 ,lO dienamide o 6Z ,10E methyl 5,12 dihydroxy 12 2 pyridyl dodeca 6,10 dienoate 6Z,10E methyl 5,12 dihydroxy 14 2 furyl tetradeca 6,10 dienoate 7Z,11E N n butyl 6,13 dihydroxy 14 1 adamantyl tetradeca 7,11 dienamide 5E,7E,9E 4,11 dihydroxy 11 cyclopentyl undeca 5,7,9 trienamide 5E,7E,9E N,N dimethyl 4,11 dihydroxy 12 cyclohexyl dodeca 5,7,9 trienamide 5E,7E,9E methyl 4,11 dihydroxy nonadeca 5,7,9 trienoate 5E,9E,13Z N,N tetramethylene 4,11 dihydroxy eicosa 5,9,13 trienamide SE,7E,9E N n butyll 4,11 dihydroxy 12 methyl hexadeca 5,7,9 triene 14 ynamide 5E,7E,9E 4,11 dihydroxy 13 ethoxy trideca 5,7,9 trienoic acid 5E,7E,9E N benzyl 4,11 dihydroxy 12 phenyl dodeca 5,7,9 trienamide 5E,9E N methyl 4,11 dihydroxy 12 p fluorophenoxy dodeca 5,9 dienamide o 5E,7E, 9E methyl 4,11 dihydroxy 13 3 ,4 dichloro phenyl trideca 5,7,9 trienoate 5E,7E,9E 4,11 dihydroxy 14 p methylphenyl tetradeca 5,7,9 trienoic acid 5E,7E,9E N,N tetramethylene 4,11 dihydroxy 13 p dimethylaminophenyl trideca 5 ,7 , 9 trienamide 5E,9E N phenyl 4,11 dihydroxy 14 m trifluoro methylphenyl tetradeca 5,9 dienamide 5E,7E,9E N phenyl 4,11 dihydroxy 13 p methoxyphenyl trideca 5,7,9 trienamide 5E,7E,9E 4,11 dihydroxy 15 3 ,4 ,5 trimethoxyphenyl pentadeca 5,7,9 trienamide 5E,7E,9E N ethyl 4,11 dihydroxy 15 dimethylamino pentadeca 5,7,9 trienamide 5E,7E,9E N,N dimethyl 4,11 dihydroxy 13 m hydroxy phenyl trideca 5,7,9 trienamide o CSE,7E ,9E ethyl 4,11 dihydroxy ll phenyl undeca 5,7,9 trienoate 5E,7E,9E N,N tetramethylene 4,11 dihydroxy 13 4 methylthiophenyl trideca 5 ,7 , 9 trienamide 5E,9E N cyclohexyl 4,11,17 trihydroxy heptadeca 5,9 dienamide 5E,7E,9E N ethyl 4,11 dihydroxy 13 2 pyridyl trideca 5,7,9 trienamide Practical and preferred embodiments of the present invention are illustratively shown in the following referential examples and examples.Referential Example 1 To a N,N dimethylformarrde solution 20 ml of 2Z 2 butene 1,4 diol 15 g , was added methylene chloride 200 ml , 3,4 dihydro 2H pyran 15 g and ptoluenesulfonic acid monohydrate 2 g sequentially.The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 6 hrs. and then washed with sodium bicarbonate aqueous solution, dried, concentrated and chromatographed on silica gel to give 2Z 4 tetrahydropyranoxy 2 butene 1 ol 18 g . NMR CDCl3 1.6 6H, br , 3.5 4.0 2H, m , 4.67 1H, S , and and 5.70 1H, dt, 12 5 Hz , 5.86 1H, dt, 12 5 Hz Referential Example 2 Active manganese dioxide 50 g was added to a chloroform solution 100 mll of 2Z 4 tetrahydropyranoxy 2 butene l ol t11 g . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 10 hrs. and filtrated through celite, concentrated and chromatographed on silica gel to give an oil. Then, to a tetrahydrofuran solution 75 g of the above oil, was added 1,8 diazabicyclo 5,4,0 7 undecene 1 g . The mixture was stirred at room temperature, and poured into water, and then extracted with ethyl acetate.The organic layer was dried, concentrated and chromatographed on silica gel to give 2E 4 tetrahydropyranoxy 2 butenal t9 g . NMR 6 CDC13 2Z isomer 1.6 6H, br , 3.5 4.0 2H, m , 4.65 3H, m , 6.02 1H, ddt, 11, 7, and 2Hz , 6.66 1H, dt, 11 and 5Hz , 10.14 1H, d, 7Hz , NMR 6 CDC13 2E isomer 1.6 6H, br , 3.5 4.0 2H, m , 4.36 2H, m , 4.66 1H, brs , 6.37 1H, ddt, 15, 7, and 2 Hz , 6.85 1H, dt, 15 and 5Hz , 9.59 1H, d, 7Hz Referential Example 3 Methyl 5 triphenylphosphoranylidene levulinate .35 g was added to a N,N dimethylformamide solution 100 ml of 2E 4 tetrahydropyranoxy 2 butenal 13 g , and the mixture was stirred at 50 C for 3 hrs. The reaction mixture was poured into water and extracted with ethyl acetate.The organic layer was dried, concentrated, and chromatographed on silica gel to give 5E,7E methyl 9 tetrahydropyranoxy 4 oxo nona 5,7 dienoate 9 g . NMR 6 CDCl3 1.6 6H, br , 2.63 2H, t, 6Hz , 2.90 2H, t, 6Hz , 3.68 311, S , 4.4 211, m , 4.67 1H, brs , 6.0 7.7 4H, m Referential Example 4 p Toluenesulfonic acid monohydrate 200 mg was added to a methanol solution 150 ml of 5E,7E methyl 9 tetrahydropyranoxy 4 oxo nona 5,7 dienoate 9 g , and the mixture was stirred at 500C for 1 hr.Methanol was evaporated, and to the mixture was added sodium bicarbonate aqueous solution. Then the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was dried and concentrated to give an oil. Then, to a chloroform solution 100 ml of the above oil, was added active manganese dioxide 20 g . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 10 hrs. and filtrated on celite, concentrated and chromatographed on silica gel to give 5E,7E methyl 8 formyl 4 oxo octa 5,7 dienoate 6.4 g . NMR CDCl3 2.69 2H, t, 6Hz , 3.01 2H, t, 6Hz , 3.72 3H, S , 6.5 1H, m , 6.63 1H, d, 15Hz , 7.26 1H, dd, 15, 12Hz , 7.43 111, dd, 15, 12Hz , 9.79 1H, d, 7Hz Referential Example 5 To a tetrahydrofuran suspension 100 ml of sodium hydride 60 dispersion in mineral oil 410 mg , was added dimethyl 2 oxo decyl phosphonate 2.7 g , and then to the reaction mixture, was added a tetrahydrofuran solution 10 ml of CSE,7E methyl 8 formyl 4 oxo octa5,7 dienoate 2 g at 0 C The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hrs. and poured into water, extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was dried, concentrated and chromatographed on silica gel to give 5E,7E,9E methyl 4,11 dioxo nonadeca 5,7,9 trienoate 800 mg . NMR CDCl3 0.88 3H, brt , 2.6 4H, m , 2.94 211, t, 6Hz , 3.68 3H, S , 6.34 211, d, 15Hz , 6.6 7.4 4H, m Referential Example 6 According to the same procedure as that ofReferential Example 5, there were obtained the following compounds.o SE,7E, 9E methyl 13,17 dimethyl 4,11 dioxo octadeca 5,7,9,16 tetraenoate NMR 6 CDCl3 0.92 3H, d, 7Hz , 1.61 3H, S , 1.68 3H, S , 2.43 2H, d, 7Hz , 2.64 2H, t, 6Hz , 2.92 2H, t, 6Hz , 3.71 3H, S , 5.72 1H, brt, 7Hz , 6.31 2H, d, 15Hzl, 6.61 1H, dd, 14, 11Hz , 6.69 1H, dd, 14, 11Hz , 7.18 1H, dd, 15, 11Hz , 7.22 1H, dd, 15, 11Hz 5E,7E,9E methyl 13 p methoxyphenyl 4,11 dioxo trideca 5,7,9 trienoate NMR 6 CDC13 2.63 2H, t, 6Hz , 2.87 6H, m , 3.67 3H, S , 3.76 3H, S , 6.26 1H, d, 15Hz , 6.29 1H, d, 15Hz , 6.59 1H, dd, 14, 11Hz , 6.66 1H, dd, 14, 11Hz , 6.76 2H, d, 8Hz , 7.08 2H, d, 8Hz , 7.1 7.4 2H, m 5E,7E,9E methyl 13 3 ,4 dichlorophenyl 4,11 dioxo trideca 5,7,9 trienoate NMR CDCl3 2.66 2H, t, 6Hz , 2.92 6H, m , 3.69 3H, S , 6.28 1H, d, 15Hz , 6.31 1H, d, 15Hz , 6.62 1H, dd, 14, 11Hz , 6.71 111, dd, 14, 11Hz , 7.0 7.4 5H, m 5E,7E,9E methyl 13 m trifluoromethylphenyl 4,11 dioxo trideca 5,7,9 trienoate NMR CDCl3 2.65 2H, t, 6Hz , 3.0 6H, brm , 3.68 3H, S , 6.28 1H, d, 15Hz , 6.31 1H, d, 15Hz , 6.60 1H, dd, 14, 11Hz , 6.67 1H, dd, 14, 11Hz , 7.1 7.6 6H, m 5E,7E,9E methyl 12 p fluorophenoxy 4,11 dioxo dodeca 5,7,9 trienoate NMR 6 CDC13 2.66 2H, t, 6Hz , 2.93 2H, t, 6Hz , 3.69 3H, S , 4.66 2H, S , 6.3 7.5 10H, m 5E,7E,9E methyl 14 p methylphenyl 4,11 dioxo tetradeca 5,7,9 trienoate NMR CDCl3 1.95 2H, qui, 7Hz , 2.31 3H, S , 2.93 2H, t, 7Hz , 3.69 3H, S , 6.27 1H, d, 15Hz , 6.32 1H, d, 15Hz , 6.60 1H, dd, 15, 12Hz , 6.68 1H, dd, 15, 12Hz , 7.08 4H, S , 7.2 2H, m 5E,7E,9E methyl 12 cyclohexyl 4,11 dioxo dodeca 5,7,9 trienoate NMR 6 CDC13 2.43 2H, d, 6Hz , 2.66 2H, t, 6Hz , 2.92 2H, t, 6Hz , 3.69 3H, S , 6.29 1H, d, 15Hz , 6.31 1H, d, 15Hz , 6.62 1H, dd, 15, 12Hz , 6.71 1H, dd, 15, 12Hz , 7.3 211, m 5E,7E,9E methyl 13 p dimethylaminophenyl 4,11 dioxo trideca 5,7,9 trienoate NMR CDCl3 2.64 2H, t, 6Hz , 2.86 4h, S , 2.90 6H, S , 3.68 3H, S , 6.28 1H, d, 15Hz , 6.30 1H, d, 15Hz , 6.6 2H, m , 6.66 2H, d, 9Hz , 7.06 2H, d, 9Hz , 7.2 2H, m 5E,7E,9E methyl 11 cyclopentyl 4,11 dioxo undeca 5,7,9 trienoate NMR CDCl3 2.65 2H, t, 6Hz , 2.93 2H, t, 6Hz , 3.69 3H, S , 6.33 .1H, d, 15Hz , 6.37 1H, a, 15Hz , 6.65 1H, dd, 15, 12Hz , 6.73 1H, dd, 15, 12Hz , 7.2 2H, m 5E,7E,9E methyl 13 methyl 4,11 dioxo heptadeca 5,7,9 trienoate NMR CDCl3 0.88 3H, t, 6Hz , 0.91 3H, d, 5Hz , 2.43 2H, d, 7Hz , 2.67 2H, t, 6Hz , 2.93 2H, t, 6Hz , 3.69 3H, S , 6.32 2H, d, 15Hz , 6.63 1H, dd, 15, 12Hz , 6.71 1H, dd, 15, 12Hz , 7.2 2H, m o 5E,7E,9E methyl 13 o methoxyphenyl 4,11 dioxo trideca 5,7,9 trienoate NMR CDCl3 2.65 2H, t, 6Hz , 2.90 2H, t, 6Hz , 2.91 4H, brs , 3.68 3H, S , 3.83 3H, S , 6.27 1H, d, 15Hz , 6.29 1H, a, 15Hz , 6.6 7.4 8H, m 5E,7E,9E methyl 13 m methoxyphenyl 4,11 dioxo trideca 5,7,9 trienoate NMR CDCl3 2.65 2H, t, 6Hz , 2.92 2H, t, 6Hz , 2.93 4H, brs , 3.69 3H, S , 3.79 3H, S , 6.30 1H, d, 15Hz , 6.32 1H, d, 15Hz , 6.6 7.4 8H, m o 5E,7E,9E methyl 13 3 ,4 dimethoxyphenyl 4,11 dioxo trideca 5,7,9 trienoate NMR CDCl3 2.65 2H, t, 6Hz , 2.90 4H, brs , 2.92 2H,t, 6Hz , 3.69 3H, S , 3.86 6H, S , 6.30 1H, d, 15Hz , 6.32 1H, d, 15Hz , 6.6 7.4 7H, m o 5E,7E,9E methyl 13 3 ,4 ,5 trimethoxyphenyl 4,11 dioxo trideca 5,7,9 trienoate NMR CDCl3 2.66 2H, t, 6Hz , 2.91 4H, brs , 2.93 2H, t, 6Hz , 3.69 3H, S , 3.82 3H, S 3.84 6H, S , 6.32 2H, d, 15Hz , 6.41 2H, S 6.5 7.4 4H, m Referential Example 7 According to the same procedure as that ofReferential Example 1, from 1,4 butanediol was obtained 4 tetrahydropyranoxy 1 butanol. NMR CDCl3 1.7 10H, br , 3.7 6H, m , 4.59 1H, brs Referential Example 8 To a methylene chloride suspension 200 ml of pyridinium chlorochromate 13 g , was added a methylene chloride solution 20 ml of 4 tetrahydropyranoxy 1butanol 10 g at OOC. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 hrs., and diluted with n hexane 200 ml , filtrated on celite and concentrated to give an oil. Then the above oil was dissolved in n hexane 200 ml , filtrated on celite, concentrated to give an oil 10 g . Then, according to the same procedure asReferential Example 3, from the above oil 10 g was obtained 5E methyl 9 tetrahydropyranoxy 4 oxo 5nonenoate 7 g . NMR 6 CDC13 1.6 8H, br , 2.36 2H, q, 7Hz , 2.63 2H, t, 6Hz , 2.89 2H, t, 6Hz , 3.69 3H, S , 4.56 .1H, brs , 6.13 1H, d, 15Hz , 6.93 1H, dt, 15, 7Hz Referential Example 9 To a methanol solution 150 ml of 5E methyl 9 tetrahydropyranoxy 4 oxo 5 nonenoate 7 g , was added p toluenesulfonic acid monohydrate 200 mg . The reaction mixture was stirred at 50 C for 1 hr. Methanol was evaporated, and to the mixture was added sodium bicarbonate aqueous solution. Then the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was dried and concentrated to give an oil.Then to a methylene chloride solution t80 ml of pyridinium chlorochromate .4 g , was added a methylene chloride solution 10 ml of the above oil at 0 C The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 hrs., and diluted with nhexane t80 ml , filtrated on celite, concentrated to give an oil. Then the above oil was dissolved in nhexane t80 ml , filtrated on celite, concentrated to give 5E methyl 8 formyl 4 oxo 5 octenoate 2 g . NMR 6 CDC13 2.7 8H, m , 3.68 3H, S , 6.13 1H, d, 15Hz , 6.85 1H, dt, 15, 7Hz , 9.83 1H, brs Referential Example 10 According to the same procedure as that ofReferential Example 5, from 5E methyl 8 formyl 4 oxo5 octenoate was obtained SE ,9E methyl 4,11 dioxo nonadeca 5 , 9 dienoate. NMR 6 CDC13 0.87 3H, br , 1.4 4H, m , 2.52 2H, t, 7Hz 2.63 2H, t, 6Hz , 2.87 2H, t, 6Hz , 3.70 3H, S , 6.12 1H, d, 15Hz , 6.15 1H, d, 15Hz , 6.8 2H, m Referential Example 11 To a tetrahydrofuran suspension 200 ml of sodium hydride 60 dispersion in mineral oil 1 g , was added dimethyl t5 methoxycarbonyl 2 oxo pentyl phosphonate 6.1 g , and then to the mixture was added a tetrahydrofuran solution 20 ml of 2E 4 tetra hydropyranoxy g butenal 4.1 g at OOC. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hrs. and poured into water, extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was dried, concentrated and chromatographed on silica gel to give 6E,8E methyl 10 tetrahydropyranoxy 5 oxo deca 6,8 dienoate 3.2 g . NMR CDCl3 1.96 2H, qui, 7Hz , 2.39 2H, t, 7Hz , 2.67 2H, t, 7Hz , 3.71 3H, S , 4.4 2H, m , 4.68 1H, br , 5.9 7.7 4H, m Referential Example 12 According to the same procedure as that ofReferential Example 4, from 6E,8E methyl 10 tetra hydropyranoxy 5 oxo deca 6,8 dienoate was obtained 6E,8E methyl 9 formyl 5 oxo nona 6,8 dienoate. NMR 6 CDC13 2.40 2H, t, 7Hz , 2.73 2H, t, 7Hz , 3.69 3H, S , 6.5 1H, m , 6.53 1H, d, 15Hz , 7.20 1H, dd, 15, 11Hz , 7.32 1H, dd, 15, 11Hz , 9.76 1H, d, 8Hz Referential Example 13 According to the same procedure as that ofReferential Example 5, from 6E,8E methyl 9 formyl 5oxo nona 6,8 dienoate was obtained 6E,8E,10E methyl 13 p fluorophenoxy 5,12 dioxo trideca 6,8,10 trienoate. NMR 6 CDC13 1.96 2H, qui, 7Hz 2.39 2H, t, 7Hz , 2.67 2H, t, 7Hz , 3.67 t3H, S , 4.66 2H, S , 6.3 7.4 10H, m Referential Example 14 According to the same procedure as that ofReferential Example 13, there were obtained the following compounds. 6E,8E,10E methyl 14 m trifluoromethylphenyl 5,12 dioxo tetradeca 6,8,10 trienoate NMR CDCl3 1.96 2H, qui, 7Hz , 2.38 2H, t, 7Hz , 2.66 2H, t, 7Hz , 2.99 4H, brs , 3.67 3H, S , 6.29 2H, d, 15Hz , 6.60 1H, dd, 14, 11Hz , 6.68 1H, dd, 14, 11Hz , 7.1 7.6 6H, m o 6E,8E,10E,14Z methyl 5,12 dioxo tricosa 6,8,10,14 tetraenoate NMR 6 CDC13 0.88 3H, br , 2.4 2.8 6H, m , 3.68 3H, S , 5.34 2H, t, 5Hz , 6.30 2H, d, 15Hz , 6.62 1H, dd, 14, 11Hz , 6.70 1H, dd, 14, 11Hz , 7.1 7.4 2H, m 6E,8E,10E methyl 14 3 4 dichlorophenyl 5,12 dioxo tetradeca 6,8,10 trienoate NMR 6 CDC13 1.96 2H, qui, 7Hz , 2.39 2H, t, 7Hz , 2.70 2H, t, 7Hz , 2.91 4H, br , 3.67 3H, S , 6.28 2H, d, 15Hz , 6.61 1H, dd, 14, 11Hz , 6.69 1H, dd, 14, 11Hz , 7.0 7.5 5H, m o 6E,8E,lOE methyl 15 p methylphenyl 5,12 dioxo pentadeca 6,8,10 trienoate NMR CDCl3 2.0 4H, m , 2.31 3H, S , 3.68 3H, S , 6.27 2H, d, 15Hz , 6.59 1H, dd, 15, 12Hz , 6.67 1H, dd, 15, 12Hz , 7.08 4H, S , 7.2 2H, m Referential Example 15 6Z,8E Methyl 5,10 dihydroxy deca 6,8 dienoate was obtained by the following three methods.1 To a tetrahydrofuran suspension 50 ml of magnesium 6.3 g was added a tetrahydrofuran solution 10 ml of trimethyl ortho 4 bromobutyrate 20 g dropwise at about 250C. Then, to a tetrahydrofuran solution 400 ml of 2E,4Z ethyl 5 formyl penta 2,4 dienoate 9.1 g was added the above reaction m ixture dropwise at about 500C. The mixture was warmed gradually to room temperature, and poured into water, extracted with ether.The extract was dried and concentrated to give an oil. To a tetrahydrofuran solution 400 ml of the above oil, was added diisobutylaluminum hydride l.SM solution in toluene 100 ml at about 500C. The mixture was warmed gradually to room temperature. Then, to the mixture was addedfethyl acetate and dil. sodium hydroxide aqueous solution. And the mixture was filtrated on celite. The organic layer was washed with dil. sodium hydroxide aqueous solution, dried, concentrated, and chromatographed on silica gel to give 6Z,8E methyl 5,10 dihydroxy deca 6,8 dienoate. 2 To a tetrahydrofuran suspension 50 ml of magnesium 6.3 g , was added a tetrahydrofuran solution t10 ml of trimethyl ortho 4 bromobutyrate 20 g dropwise at about 250C. Then, to a tetrahydrofuran solution 400 ml of 2E,4Z ethyl 5 formyl penta 2,4 dienoate 9.1 g was added the above reaction mixture dropwise at about 500C. The mixture was warmed gradually to room temperature, poured into water, and extracted with ether.The extract was dried, and concentrated to give an oil. To a tetrahydrofuran solution 400 ml of the above oil, was added lithium tri sec butylborohydride 1M solution in tetrahydrofuran 150 ml at about 50 C. The mixture was warmed gradually to room temperature, and then acidified to pH 4 5 by addition of dil.hydrochloric acid, and extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was dried, concentrated and chromatographed on silica gel to give 6Z,8E methyl 5,10 dihydroxy deca6,8 dienoate.3 To a tetrahydrofuran solution 240 ml of naphthalene 7.2 g , was added magnesium chloride 25.9 g and lithium 3.69 g . The reaction mixture was stirred vigorously at room temperature for 6 hrs. Then to the mixture was added a tetrahydrofuran solution 10 ml of trimethyl ortho 4 bromobutyrate 20 g dropwise at about 25 OC, Then, to a tetrahydrofuran solution t400 ml of 2E,4Z ethyl 5 formyl penta 2,4 dienoate 9.1 g was added the above reaction mixture dropwise at about 500C. The mixture was warmed gradually to room temperature, and poured into water, extracted with ether. The extract was dried, and concentrated to give an oil. To a tetrahydrofuran solution 400 ml of the above oil, was added diisobutylaluminum hydride 1.5M solution in toluene 100 ml at about 500C. The mixture was warmed gradually to room temperature. Then, to the mixture was added ethyl acetate and dil. sodium hydroxide aqueous solution. And the mixture was filtrated on celite. The organic layer was washed with dil. sodium hydroxide aqueous solution, dried, concentrated, and chromatographed on silica gel to give 6Z,8E methyl 5,10 dihydroxy deca 6,8 dienoate. NMR 6 CDCl3 3.67 3H, S , 4.16 2H, brs , 5.3 6.8 4H, m Referential Example 16 To a chloroform solution 20 ml of 6Z,8E methyl 5, l0 dihydroxy deca 6 ,8 dienoate 0.6 g , was added active manganese dioxide 1.2 g . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature. After the starting material had disappeared, the mixture was filtrated on celite, concentrated and chromatographed on silica gel to give t6Z,8E methyl 9 formyl 5 hydroxynona 6,8 dienoate. NMR CDCl3 3.70 3H, S , 5.7 6.4 3H, m , 7.57 1H, dd, 15, 12Hz , 9.63 1H, d, 8Hz Referential Example 17 According to the same procedure as that ofReferential Example 5, from 6Z,8E methyl 9 formyl 5hydroxy nona 6,8 dienoate, were obtained the following compounds. 6Z,8E,10E methyl 5 hydroxy 12 oxo heptadeca 6,8,10 trienoate NMR 6 CDCl3 0.90 3H, t, 7Hz , 3.69 3H, S , 4.65 1H, m 5.6 7.3 6H, m IRcm 1film 3450, 1730, 1660 6Z,8E,10E methyl 14 p methoxyphenyl 5 hydroxy 12 oxo tetradeca 6,8,10 trienoate NMR 6 CDC13 3.67 3H, S , 3.76 3H, S , 5.5 7.4 6H, m , 6.76 2H, d, 8Hzl, 7.08 2H, d, 8Hz Referential Example 18 To a tetrahydrofuran solution t240 ml of naphthalene 7.2 g , was added magnesium chloride 25.9 g and lithium 3.69 g . The reaction mixture was stirred vigorously at room temperature for 6 hrs.Then to the mixture was added a tetrahydrofuran solution 10 ml of trimethyl ortho 4 bromobutyrate 20 g dropwise at about 150C. Then, to a tetrahydrofuran solution 400 ml of 2E,4Z ethyl 5 formyl penta 2,4 dienoate 9.1 g was added the above reaction mixture dropwise at about 50 C. The mixture was warmed gradually to room temperature, and poured into water, extracted with ether. The extact was dried and concentrated to give an oil. To a tetrahydrofuran solution 400 ml of the above oil, was added diisobutylaluminium hydride l.5M solution in toluene 100 ml at about 500C. The mixture was warmed gradually to room temperature.Then, to the mixture was added ethyl acetate and 2N hydrochloric acid. The resulting mixture was stirred, and extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was dried, concentrated and chromatographed on silica gel to give an oil. Then, according to the same procedure asReferential Example 16, from the above oil was obtained 6E,8E methyl 9 formyl 5 hydroxy nona 6,8 dienoate. NMR CDCl3 3.68 3H, S , 5.7 6.5 C3H, m , 7.11 Clii, dd, 15, 10Hz , 9.57 1H, d, 8Hz Referential Example 19 According to the same procedure as that ofReferential Example 5, from C6E,8E methyl 9 formyl 5hydroxy nona 6,8 dienoate, were obtained the following compounds. 6E,8E,10E methyl 13 p fluorophenoxy 5 hydroxy 12 oxo trideca 6,8,10 trienoate NMR 6 CDC13 3.67 3H, S , 4.66 2H, S , 5.5 7.6 10H, m 6E,8E,10E methyl 14 3 4 dichlorophenyl 5 hydroxy 12 oxo tetradeca 6 , 8, 10 trienoate NMR CDCl3 2.91 4H, brs , 3.67 3H, S , 5.5 7.5 9H, m 6E,8E,10E methyl 15 p methylphenyl 5 hydroxy 12 oxo pentadeca 6,8,10 trienoate NMR 6 CDC13 2.31 3H, S , 3.68 3H, S , 5.5 7.5 6H, m , 7.08 4H, S o 6E,8E,lOE methyl 14 Cm trifluoromethylphenyl 5 hydroxy 12 oxo tetradeca 6,8,10 trienoate NMR 6 CDC13 2.99 4H, brs , 3.67 3H, S , 5.6 7.6 lOH, m o 6E,8E,lOE,14Z methyl 5 hydroxy 12 oxo tricosa 6,8,10,14 tetraenoate NMR 6 CDC13 0.88 3H, br , 2.4 2.8 4H, m , 3.67 3H, S , 5.3 7.4 8H, m Referential Example 20 To a tetrahydrofuran solution 240 ml of naphthalene 7.2 g , was added magnesium chloride 25.9 g and lithium 3.69 g . The reaction mixture was stirred vigorously at room temperature for 6 hrs.Then to the mixture was added a tetrahydrofuran solution 10 ml of trimethyl ortho 4 bromobutyrate 20 g dropwise at about 250C. Then, to a tetrahydrofuran solution 400 ml of . 4Z ethyl 5 formyl 4 pentenoate 9.1 g was added the above reaction mixture dropwise at about 500C. The mixture was warmed gradually to room temperature, and poured into water, extracted with ether. The extract was dried and concentrated to give an oil. To a tetrahydrofuran solution 400 ml of the above oil, was added diisobutylaluminum hydride 1.5M solution in toluene 100 ml at about 50 C. After the starting material had disappeared, to the mixture was added ethyl acetate and dil. sodium hydroxide aqueous solution. And the mixture was filtrated on celite.The organic layer was washed with dil. sodium hydroxide aqueous solution, dried, concentrated, and chromatographed on silica gel to give an oil. Then, according to the same procedure asReferential Example 5, from the above oil was obtained 6Z,10E methyl 13 cyclohexyl 5 hydroxy 12 oxo trideca6,10 dienoate. NMR 6 CDC13 3.68 3H, S , 4.92 1H, q, 7Hz , 5.81 2H, br , 6.12 1H, d, 15Hz , 6.77 lH, dt, 15, 7Hz Referential Example 21 According to the same procedure as that ofReferential Example 20, there were obtained the following compounds.o t6Z,lOE methyl 14 ethoxy 5 hydroxy 12 oxo tetradeca 6,10 dienoate NMR CDCl3 1.16 3H, t, 7Hz , 3.68 3H, S , 4.89 1H, brm , 5.79 2H, brs , 6.17 1H, d, 15Hz , 6.83 1H, dt, 15, 7Hz o t6Z,lOE methyl 12 cyclopentyl 5 hydroxy 12 oxo dodeca 6,10 dienoate NMR CDCl3 3.67 3H, S , 4.91 1H, brm , 5.80 2H, br , 6.21 1H, d, 16Hz , 6.84 1H, dt, 16, 7Hz o C6Z , lOE methyl 13 methyl 5 hydroxy 12 oxo heptadeca 6,10 diene 15 ynoate NMR CDCl3 1.17 3H, d, 7Hz , 1.74 3H, S , 2.92 1H, six, 7Hz , 3.67 3H, S , 4.92 1H, q, 7Hz , 5.82 2H, br , 6.22 1H, d, 16Hz , 6.87 1H, dt, 16, 7Hz Example 1 Sodium borohydride 100 mg was added to a methanol solution 30 ml of SE,7E,9E methyl 4,11 dioxo nonadeca 5,7,9 trienoate 800 mg at OOC, and the mixture was stirred at 0 C for 2 hrs. Then, to this mixture was added dimethylamine t60 wt. solution in water 10 ml . The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 12 hr., poured into water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was dried, concentrated and chromatographed on silica gel to give 5E,7E,9E N,N dimethyl 4,11 dihydroxy nonadeca 5,7,9 trienamide 400 mg . NMR 6 CDC13 0.88 3H, t, 6Hz , 2.43 2H, t, 6Hz , 2.94 3H, S , 3.00 3H, S , 4.1 2H, m , 5.5 6.3 6H, m IRcm 1film 3400, 1630 Example 2 According to the same procedure as that ofExample 1, there were obtained the following compounds. 5E,7E,9E N,N dimethyl 13,17 dimethyl 4,11 dihydroxy octadeca 5,7,9,16 tetraenamide NMR 6 CDC13 0.93 3H, d, 6Hz , 1.59 3H, S , 1.67 3, S , 2.48 2H, brt, 6Hz , 2.94 3H, S , 3.01 3H, S , 4.2 2H, brm , 5.08 1H, t, 7Hz , 5.5 6.4 6H, m IRcm 1film 3400, 1630 o 5E,7E,9E 13 p methoxyphenyl 4,11 dihydroxy trideca 5,7,9 trienamide NMR 6 CDC13 2.33 2H, t, 7Hz , 2.65 2H, t, 8Hz , 3.80 3H, S , 4.15 2H, m , 5.5 6.4 6H, m , 6.82 2H, d, 8Hz , 7.13 2H, d, 8Hz IRcm 1film 3350, 1660 o 5E,7E,9E N,N tetramethylene 13 p methoxyphenyl 4,11 dihydroxy trideca 5,7,9 trienamide NMR CDCl3 1.9 4H, m , 2.43 2H, t, 7Hz , 2.66 2H, t, 7Hz , 3.4 4H, m , 3.81 3H, S , 4.15 2H, br , 5.5 6.4 6H, m , 6.83 2H, d, 8Hz , 7.15 2H, d, 8Hz IRcm 1film 3400, 1620 5E,7E,9E N,N tetramethylene 13 3 ,4 dichlorophenyl 4,11 dihydroxy trideca 5,7,9 trienamide NMR CDCl3 1.9 4H, m , 2.45 2H, t, 7Hz , 2.68 2H, t, 7Hz , 3.4 4H, m , 4.2 2H, m , 5.5 6.4 t6H, brm , 7.0 7.5 3H, m IRfilfl 3400, 1620 cm 5E,7E,9E N methyl 13 m trifluoromethylphenyl 4,11 dihydroxy trideca 5,7,9 trienamide NMR CDCl3 2.35 2H, t, 6Hz , 2.8 2H, m , 2.76 3 2H, S , 2.83 3 2H, S , 4.2 2H, br 5.7 3H, br , 6.18 4H, br , 7.40 4H, brs IRcm 1film 3350, 1640 5E,7E,9E N methyl 13 3 ,4 dichlorophenyl 4,11 dihydroxy trideca 5,7,9 trienamide NMR CDCl3 3 2.33 2H, t, 6Hz , 2.7 2H, 2.77 2 S , 2.83 3 2H, S , 4.2 2H, m , 5.7 3H, br , 6.17 4H, br, S , 7.24 3H, S IRcm 1film 3300, 1640 5E,7E,9E N methyl 12 p fluorophenoxy 4,11 dihydroxy dodeca 5,7,9 trienamide NMR 6 CDC13 2.30 2H, t, 6Hz , 2.76 3 2H, S , 2.80 3 2H, S , 3.36 2H, brd, 6Hz , 4.2 1H, br , 4.6 1H, br , 5.8 3H, br , 6.24 4H, brs , 6.90 4H, m IRcm 1film 3300, 1640 cm 5E,7E,9E N,N dimethyl 14 p methylphenyl 4,11 dihydroxy tetradeca 5,7,9 trienamide NMR CDCl3 2.32 3H, S , 2.46 2H, t, 6Hz , 2.60 2H, t, 6Hz , 2.94 3H, S , 3.00 3H, S , 4.2 2H, m , 5.7 2H, m , 6.18 4H, br, S , 7.09 4H, S IRcm 1film cm 5E,7E,9E N,N dimethyl 13 p methoxyphenyl 4,11 dihydroxy trideca 5,7,9 trienamide NMR 6 CDC1 3 2.48 2H, t, 6Hz , 2.66 2H, t, 6Hz , 2.96 3H, S , 3.01 3H, S , 3.79 3H, S , 4.2 2H, br , 5.75 2H, br , 6.20 4H, brs , 6.80 2H, d, 8Hz , 7.11 2H, d, 8Hz IRcm 1film cm 5E,7E,9E N,N dimethyl 12 cyclohexyl 4,11 dihydroxy dodeca 5,7,9 trienamide NMR 6 CDCl3 2.50 2H, t, 6Hz , 2.98 3H, S , 3.03 3H, S , 4.28 2H, q, 6Hz , 5.7 2H, m , 6.22 4H, brs fill 3350, 1630 cm 5E,7E,9E N,N dimethyl 13 p dimethylaminophenyl 4,11 dihydroxy trideca 5,7,9 trienamide NMR 6 CDC13 2.90 6H, S , 2.95 3H, S , 3.00 3H, S , 4.2 2H, m , 5.7 2H, m , 6.18 4H, brs , 6.68 2H, d, 9Hz , 7.06 2H, d, 9Hz Rfillm 3400, film cm 1 5E,7E,9E N N dimethyl 11 cyclopentyl 4,11 dihydroxy undeca 5,7,9 trienamide NMR 6 CDC13 2.50 2H, t, 6Hz , 2.97 3H, S , 3.02 3H, S , 3.96 1H, t, 7Hz , 4.28 1H, q, 7Hz , 5.75 2H, m , 6.20 4H, brs IRcm 1film 3550, 1620 5E,7E,9E N,N dimethyl 13 methyl 4,11 dihydroxy heptadeca 5,7,9 trienamide NMR 6 CDC13 2.50 2H, t, 6Hz , 2.98 3H, S , 3.03 3H, S , 4.2 2H, m , 5.7 2H, m , 6.20 4H, brs IRcm 1film 2400, 1630 5E,7E,9E N,N dimethyl 13 o methoxyphenyl 4,11 dihydroxy trideca 5,7,9 trienamide NMR 6 CDC13 2.46 2H, t, 6Hz , 2.71 2H, t, 6Hz , 2.93 3H, S , 2.99 3H, S , 3.81 3H, S , 4.2 2H, br , 5.75 2H, br , 6.16 4H, brs , 6.7 7.3 4H, m IRcm 1film cm 5E,7E,9E N,N dimethyl 13 3 ,4 ,5 trimethoxyphenyl 4,11 dihydroxy trideca 5,7,9 trienamide NMR 6 CDC13 2.47 2H, t, 6Hz , 2.66 2H, t, 6Hz , 2.94 3H, S , 3.01 3H, S , 3.82 3H, S , 3.85 6H, S , 4.2 2H, br , 5.75 2H, br , 6.18 4H, brs , 6.42 2H, S film 3400, 1620 cm 5E,7E,9E N,N tetramethylene 13 m methoxyphenyl 4,11 dihydroxy trideca 5,7,9 trienamide NMR 6 CDC13 2.41 2H, t, 6Hz , 2.70 2H, brt, 6Hz , 3.42 4H, br , 3.78 3H, S , 4.2 2H, br , 5.8 2H, br , 6.18 4H, brs , 6.7 7.4 4H, m IRcm 1film 3400, 1620 5E,7E,9E N,N tetramethylene 13 3 ,4 dimethoxyphenyl 4,11 dihydroxy trideca 5,7,9 trienamide NMR 6 CDCl3 3.43 4H, br , 3.85 6H, S , 4.2 2H, br , 5.7 2H, br , 6.20 4H, br , 6.73 3H, br film 3400, 1620 cm Example 3 According to the same procedure as that ofExample 1, from SE,9E methyl 4,11 dioxo nonadeca 5,9dienoate was obtained the following compound. 5E,9E N,N dimethyl 4,11 dihydroxy nonadeca 5,9 di enamide NMR 6 CDC13 0.88 3H, brt , 2.15 4H, m , 2.48 2H, t, 7Hz , 2.96 3H, S , 3.03 3H, S , 4.09 2H, m , 5.57 4H, m IRcm 1film 3400, 1630Example 4 According to the same procedure as that ofExample 1, from 6E,8E,10E methyl 13 p fluorophenoxy 5,12 dioxo trideca 6,8,10 trienoate, was obtained 6E,8E,10E N,N tetramethylene 13 p fluorophenoxy 5,12 dihydroxy trideca 6,8,10 trienamide NMR 6 CDC13 2.30 2H, t, 6Hz , 3.42 6H, m , 4.16 1H, m , 4.56 1H, m , 5.8 2H, m , 6.21 4H, brs , 6.87 4H, m IRcm 1film 3400, 1620Example 5 According to the same procedure as that ofExample 4, there were obtained the following compounds. 6E,8E,10E N,N dimethyl 14 m trifluoromethylphenyl 5,12 dihydroxy tetradeca 6,8,10 trienamide NMR 6 CDC13 2.34 2H, t, 6Hz , 2.79 2H, t, 7Hz , 2.94 3H, S , 3.00 3H, S , 4.18 2H, br , 5.75 2H, br , 6.16 4H, brs , 7.39 4H, brs IR5i1l 3350, 1620 cm 6E,8E,10E,14Z N methyl 5,12 dihydroxy tricosa 6,8,10, 14 tetraenamide NMR 6 CDC13 0.88 3H, brt , 2.22 2H, t, 7Hz , 2.79 3H, br , 4.2 2H, br , 5.35 2H, br , 5.8 2H, br , 6.19 4H, brs film 3300, film cm 1 6E,8E,10E N,N tetramethylene 14 3 ,4 dichlorophenyl 5,12 dihydroxy tetradeca 6,8,10 trienamide NMR CDCl3 3 2.30 2H, t, 6Hz , 2.69 2H, t, 6Hz , 3.43 4Hj m , 4.2 2E, br , 5.8 2H, br , 6,16 4H, brs , 6.9 7.4 3H, m IRcm 1film R 3400, 1620 6E,8E,10E N,N dimethyl 15 p methylphenyl 5,12 dihydroxy pentadeca 6,8,10 trienamide NMR CDCl3 2.28 3H, S , 2.92 3H, S , 2.98 3H, S , 4.15 2H, m , 5.7 2H, br , 6.12 4H, brs , 7.06 4H, s IRcm 1film 3400, 1630Example 6 To an ethanol solution 5 ml of sodium borohydride t50 mg was added an ethanol solution 0.5 ml of 6Z,8E,lOE methyl 5 hydroxy 12 oxo heptadeca 6,8,10trienoate 150 mg at 70 C. The mixture was warmed gradually to room temperature.Then to the mixture was added ammonium chloride aqueous solution. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was dried, concentrated, and chromatographed on silica gel to give 6Z,8E,10E methyl 5,12 dihydroxy heptadeca6,8,10 trienoate. NMR 6 CDC13 0.89 3H, br , 3.67 3H, S , 5.4 6.5 6H, m , film IRcml 3400, 1730 W CH30H 258, 269, 280 nmExample 7 t6Z,8E,lOE methyl 5,12 dihydroxy heptadeca6,8,10 trienoate 45 mg was dissolved in methanol containing ammonia. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 10 days, and concentrated, and chromatographed on silica gel to give 6Z,8E,lOE 5,12 dihydroxyheptadeca 6,8,10 trienamide. NMR 6 CDC13 0.87 3H, brt, 6Hz , 5.6 6.5 6H, m IRcm 1film 3350, 1660UV CH3OH 260, 269, 280 nmExample 8 According to the same procedures as that ofExample 6 and Example 7, there were obtained the following compounds.o t6Z,8E,lOE N,N dimethyl 14 p methoxyphenyl 5,12 dihydroxy tetradeca 6,8,10 trienamide NMR 6 CDC13 2.87 3H, S , 2.92 3H, S , 3.72 3H, S , 5.3 6.4 6H, m , 6.72 2H, d, 8Hz , 7.03 2H, d, 8Hz film 3400 o 6Z,lOE 13 cyclohexyl 5,12 dihydroxy trideca 6,10 dienamide NMR 6 CDC13 2.28 4H, br , 4.83 2H, br , 5.58 2H, br , 5.78 2H, br IRcm 1film 3350, 1660 o 6Z,lOE 14 ethoxy 5,12 dihydroxy tetradeca 6,10 dienamide NMR 6 CDC13 1.18 3H, t, 7Hz , 4.85 2H, br , 5.80 4H, br IRcm 1film 3350, 1660 Example 9 According to the same procedure as that ofExample 8, 6E,8E,lOE methyl 13 p fluorophenoxy 5hydroxy 12 oxo trideca 6,8,10 trienoate, 6E,8E,10E methyl 14 3 ,4 dichlorophenyl 5 hydroxy 12 oxotetradeca 6,8,10 trienoate, t6E,8E,lOE methyl 15 p methylphenyl 5 hydroxy 12 oxo pentadeca 6,8,10 trienOate, 6E, 8E , lOE methyl 14 m trifluoromethylphenyl 5 hydroxy 12 oxo tetradeca 6,8,10 trienoate, and 6E,8E,10E,14Z methyl 5 hydroxy 12 oxo tricosa 6,8,10,14 tetraenoate, were converted respectively into 6E,8E,10E N,N tetra methylene 13 p fluorophenoxy 5 ,12 dihydroxy trideca6,8,10 trienamide, 6E,8E,10E N,N tetramethylene 14 C3 ,4 dichlorophenyl 5, 12 dihydroxy tetradeca 6 ,8,10 trienamide, 6E,8E,10E N,N dimethyl 15 p methylphenyl 5,12 dihydroxy pentadeca 6,8,10 trienamide, 6E,8E,10E N,N dimethyl 14 m trifluoromethylphenyl 5,12 dihydroxy tetradeca 6,8,10 trienamide, and 6E,8E,lOE,14Z N methyl 5,12 dihydroxy tricosa 6,8,10,14 tetraenamide. It was confirmed by their spectrum data, 1H NMR and IR, that the obtained compounds were the same as the compounds obtained in Example 4 and Example 5.Example 10 According to the same procedure as that ofExample 6, there were obtained the following compounds. 6Z,10E methyl 12 cyclopentyl 5,12 dihydroxy dodeca 6,10 dienoate NMR CDCl3 3.67 3H, S , 4.85 2H, br , 5.56 2H, m , 5.78 2H, brs IRcm 1film 3400, 1740 6Z,10E methyl 13 methyl 5,12 dihydroxy hetadeca 6,10 diene 15 ynoate NMR CDCl3 0.94 3 2H, d, 6Hz , 0.94 3 2H, d, 6Hz 1.77 9I, S , 1.79 3 2H, S , 3.66 3H, S 4.82 2H, br , 5.68 2H, br , 5.79 2H, brs IRcm 1film 3400, 1740The products obtained in the above mentioned Examples are summarized as follows in the table EMI65.1 EMI65.2 tb Coo tb SEP und SEP R1 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP E SEP n SEP Y tb No. tb SEP 1 SEP CH3 SEP cH3 SEP single SEP trans SEP 2 SEP cONMe2 tb SEP CH2 SEP linkage tb SEP CH3 SEP cH3 tb SEP 2 SEP CH3 num H2 SEP SEP we SEP 1 tb SEP 3 SEP MeO r SEP CH2 SEP CONEI, tb SEP 4 SEP C1 SEP w SEP n SEP II tb SEP Cl tb SEP 5 SEP iMci 2 tb SEP cl tb 6 SEP mcH2 SEP U SEP S SEP SEP cONHMe tb SEP F3C tb SEP Cl tb 7 SEP 1 SEP U SEP S SEP U tb SEP cI SEP 2 tb SEP 8 SEP SEP FOCH2 SEP n SEP n SEP n SEP n tb SEP 9 SEP 9 SEP Me O SEP 21 SEP 1 SEP SEP CONE, tb SEP 10 SEP MeOCH2 SEP ,I SEP ,. SEP .. tb cont d EMI66.1 tb 11 SEP CH2 SEP linklege SEP trane SEP 2 SEP CONMe2 tb 12 SEP Me2N SEP SEP CH2 SEP n SEP tf SEP n tb 13 tb CH3 tb 14 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 11 SEP H SEP fizz tb 15 SEP cur2 SEP n SEP tb SEP OMe tb SEP Me tb 16 SEP M SEP CH2 SEP n SEP n tb 17 SEP MeO CH2 SEP II SEP CON tb SEP Me tb 18 SEP 0 SEP U tb SEP MeO SEP CH2 tb 19 SEP CH SEP NH SEP hydrogen SEP n SEP n SEP CONMe tb SEP CHrCH, SEP atoms SEP L tb SEP 2 tb 20 SEP F O O CH2 SEP linkage SEP SEP 3 SEP CONO tb 21 SEP F SEP C SEP t SEP 2 SEP n SEP l SEP n SEP CONMe2 tb 22 SEP 3 s sz CH2 SEP CII, SEP nU SEP n SEP n SEP CONHMe tb SEP Cl tb 23 SEP C1 SEP t SEP CH2 SEP n SEP n SEP n SEP CONO tb cont d EMI67.1 SEP 24 SEP Me SEP E2 SEP single SEP trans SEP 3 SEP cONMe2 tb SEP r SEP single SEP trans SEP 3 SEP CONMe2 tb SEP 25 SEP CH SEP n SEP cis SEP n SEP cO2Me tb SEP 26 SEP H SEP tS SEP o SEP CONH2 tb SEP 27 SEP MeOCH2 SEP CffZ SEP N SEP tt SEP we SEP CONMe2 tb 28 SEP g SEP CE2 SEP hydrogen SEP II SEP n SEP CONH2 tb 29 SEP CH SEP O, SEP CHZ SEP CH2 SEP H SEP n SEP I. tb SEP 30 SEP H SEP 1 SEP .. SEP n SEP co2Me tb SEP ICH3 tb SEP 31 SEP CH3 SEP w SEP CH tb