# Blends of copolyesters and polycarbonate.

## Abstract
Disclosed are blends of polyesters of terephthalic acid, trans 4,4 min stilbenedicarboxylic acid, and bisphenol A polycarbonate. The polymers are compatible, and blends prepared from these polymers have excellent impact strength and are useful as molding plastics, fibers, and films.

## Claims
Claims 1 Composition of matter comprising 5 95 by weight of a polyester comprising repeating units from 30 to 95 mol terephthalic acid, repeating units from 5 to 70 mol trans 4.4 stilbene dicarboxylic acid and repeating units from at least 60 mol 1,4 cyclohexanedimethanol, said composition characterized in that said polyester has an inherent viscosity of 0.3 or more determined at 250 C in 60 40 wt wt phenol tetrachloroethane at a concentration of 0.5 g 100 ml and in that it contains further 955 by weight of a polycarbonate of 4.4 isopropylidene diphenol with an inherent viscosity of at least 0.3. 2 A composition according to Claim 1 wherein the terephthalic acid repeating units of the polyester are present in an amount of 40 95 mol and the trans 4.4 stilbenedicarboxylic repeating units acid are present in an amount of 5 60 mol t. 3 A composition according to Claim 1 wherein the acid component of the polyester comprises repeating units from up to 30 mol of at least one other aromatic dicarboxylic acid having 8 to 20 carbon atoms. 4 A composition according to Claim 1 wherein said 1,4 cyclohexanedimethanol contains at least 70 trans isomer. 5 A composition according to Claim 1 wherein the I.V. of the copolyester is greater than 0.6.

## Description
Description Blends of Copolyesters and PolycarbonateTechnical Field This invention relates to blends of high molecular weight polyesters and polycarbonates which are compatible and useful as molding plastics, fibers, and films. The blends are transparent. exhibit a single glass transition temperature. have high impact strength, and have improved low temperature impact strength. This invention is particularly concerned with blends of high molecular weight copolyesters of terephthalic acid, trans 4,4 stilbenedicarboxylic acid, and 1,4 cyclohexanedimethanol with bisphenol A polycarbonate. This invention provides transparent molding plastics with high impact strength, high heat resistance and improved low temperature impact strength.Background of the Invention U.S. Patent 4,420,607 and U.S. Patent 4,468,510 disclose polyesters of terephthalic acid and 1,4 cyclohexanedimethanol modified with 50 to 100 mol trans 4,4 stilbenedicarboxylic acid see Table 1 in each patent . No examples of blends of these copolyesters are contained in these patents. Also,U.S. Patent No. 4,459.402 is of interest. Other art related to trans 4,4 stilbenedicarboxylic acid include U.S. Patents 2,657,194, 2,657,194, 3,190,174, 3,247,043, 3,496,839, 3,842,040, 3,842,041, 4,073,777, and Japanese Kokai 72348 74. In addition, polyesters of trans 4,4 stilbenedicarboxylic acid and neopentyl glycol, l,5 pentane diol, 1,6 hexanediol, and l,10 decanediol are disclosed by Meurisse, et al, in the British PolymerJournal, Vol. 13, 1981, p 57 Table 1 . None of these references disclose examples of blends of the copolyesters and polycarbonates of our invention.Disclosure of the Invention According to the present invention, there is provided a composition of matter comprising a about 5 95S by weight of a polyester comprising repeating units from about 30 to about 95 mol S terephthalic acid, repeating units from about 5 to about 70 mol trans 4,4 stilbenedicarboxylic acid and repeating units from at least 60 mol t 1,4 cyclohexanedimethanol, said polyester having an inherent viscosity of 0.3 or more determined at 250C in 60 40 wt wt phenol tetrachlorethane at a concentration of 0.5 g 1OO ml and b about 95 5 by weight of a polycarbonate of 4,4 isopropylidenediphenol with an inherent viscosity of at least 0.3. The polymers of this invention are useful as molding plastics, fibers, films, and bottles. Generally, blends of two distinctly different polymers are opaque and incompatible with one another. Unexpectedly, we have discovered that injection molded bars consisting of blends of about 5 to about 95 wt of copolyesters of terephthalic acid, trans 4,4 stilbenedicarboxylic acid SDA , and 1,4 cyclohexanedimethanol with about 95 to about 5 wt of bisphenol A polycarbonate are compatible, transparent molding plastics having a single glass transition temperature Tg , high impact strength, and good heat resistance Table 1 . The copolyester portion of these blends contains repeating units from about 95 to about 30 mol terephthalic acid, preferably about 95 to about 40 mol , and repeating units from about 5 to about 70 mol t trans 4,4 stilbenedicarboxylic acid, preferably about 5 to about 60 mol , such that the sum of the dicarboxylic acid portion of these copolyesters is equal to 100 mol . The dicarboxylic acid portion of these copolyesters may contain up to 30 mol of other aromatic dicarboxylic acids having 8 to 20 carbon atoms such as isophthalic acid, 2 chloroor 2,5dichloroterephthalic acid, 2 methylterephthalic acid, 4,4 biphenyldicarboxylic acid, and 2,6 naphthalenedicarboxylic acid. Terephthalic acid is preferred. The 1,4 cyclohexanedimethanol portion of the copolyesters of this invention may consist of either trans 1,4 cyclohexanedimethanol or cis 1,4 cyclohexanedimethanol or any mixture of these isomers. A mixture of isomers consisting of 70 mol trans 1,4cyclohexanedimethanol which is commercially available is preferred.The 1,4 cyclohexanedimethanol portion of the polymer may also contain up to 40 mol S, preferably less than 20 mol , of another aliphatic glycol containing 2 to 10 carbon atoms such that the sum of the glycol portions of the polymer is equal to 100 mol t. Examples of useful glycols are ethylene glycol, 1,2 propanediol, 1,3 propanediol, 2,2dimethyl 1,3 propanediol, trans or cis 2,2,4,4 tetra methyl 1,3 cyclobutanediol, 1,4 butanediol, 1,5 pentanediol, 1,6 hexanediol, 1,3 cyclohexanedimethanol, or p xylenediol. The polycarbonate portion of the blend consists of the polycarbonate of 4,4 isopropylidenediphenol bisphenol A . Many such polycarbonates are commercially available, and are normally made by reacting bisphenol A with phosgene, diethyl carbonate, etc. The inherent viscosity of the copolyester portion of the blends is at least 0.3 but preferably 0.6 or more. The inherent viscosity of the bisphenol A polycarbonate portion of the blends is at least 0.3 but preferrably 0.5 or more. The polyester portion of these blends is prepared in the melt or by solid phase polymerization or by a combination of these processes according to well known techniques. The polycarbonate portion of the blends is prepared in the melt, in solution, or by interfacial polymerization techniques well known in the art. The examples illustrate the single glass transition temperature, good heat resistance, and high impact strength of these compatible transparent polyester polycarbonate blends of our invention. The high notched Izod impact strength at 400 is particularly surprising. The inherent viscosities of the copolyesters of this invention are determined at 250C in 60 40 wt wt phenol tetrachloroethane at a concentration of 0.5 g 100 ml. The inherent viscosities of the polycarbonates and the polyester polycarbonate blends are determined at 250C in 25 35 40 wt wt wt phenol tetrachloroethane p chlorophenol at a concentration of 0.1 g 100 ml. The polyesters and polycarbonates are ground to pass a 3 mm screen, dry blended, dried at 80 1200C overnight in a vacuum oven, and mixtures are extruded at 290 to 3200C on a 1.9 cm Brabender extruder equipped with a screen pack and a mixing screw. The polymers are molded on a one ounce WatsonStillman injection molding machine to give 12.7 x 1.27 x 0.32 cm flexure bars. The notched Izod impact strength is determined by taking an average of five breaks following the procedure of ASTM D256. The heat defection temperature is determined following the procedure of ASTM D648. The glass transition temperatures of the blends are determined on a DSC 2 Differential ScanningCalorimeter manufactured by Perkin Elmer at a scan rate of 20 C minute. The following examples are submitted for a better understanding of the invention.EXAMPLE 1 This example illustrates the preparation of a typical polyester component of the blends of this invention. A copolyester consisting of 60 mol terephthalic acid units, 40 mol z trans 4,4 stilbene dicarboxylic acid units, and 100 mol S 1,4 cyclohexanedimethanol units is prepared as follows. A mixture of 87.5 g 0.45 mol dimethyl terephthalate, 88.8 g 0.30 mol dimethyl trans 4,4 stilbenedicarboxylate, 185.1 g 0.90 mol 70 trans 30 cis 1,4 cyclohexanedimethanol 70 solution in methanol , and 0.14 g titanium tetraisopropoxide is placed in a one litre flask equipped with an inlet for nitrogen, a metal stirrer, and a short distillation column. The flask is gradually heated to 1900C to allow the excess methanol to distill. The flask is then heated about 20 minutes at 1900C, 20 minutes at 2200C, and 20 minutes at 280 C. The reaction temperature is raised to 3000C and a vacuum of 0.5 mm is gradually applied. Full vacuum is maintained for about 50 60 minutes. A light yellow, high melt viscosity polymer is obtained with an I.V. of 0.83 and a Tg of 1200C. The polymer is ground, dry blended with 30 wt of ground Lexan 303 polycarbonate a polycarbonate of bisphenol A and phosgene, I.V. 0.61 , extruded at 2900C, and pelletized. The pelletized polymer blend is molded at 2900C to give transparent molded flexure bars with a notched Izod impact strength of 774Joules meter at 23 C and 6.03 Joules meter at 40 C. a 18.6 kg cmê heat deflection temperature of 105 C.and a Tg of 1260C. EXAMPLE 2 The polyester of Example 1 is ground, dry blended with 50 wt Lexan 303 polycarbonate, extruded at 2900C and pelletized. The pelletized polymer blend is molded at 2900C to give transparent molded flexure bars with a notched Izod impact strength of 924Joules meter at 23 C and 790 Joules meter at 40 C. a 18.6 kg cmê heat deflection temperature of 108 C.and a Tg of 133 C. EXAMPLE 3 The polyester of Example 1 is ground, dry blended with 70 wt Lexan 303 polycarbonate, extruded at 2900C and pelletized. The pelletized polymer blend is molded at 2900C to give transparent molded flexure bars with a notched Izod impact strength of 892Joules meter at 23 C. 513 Joules meter at 40 C. a 18.6 kg cmê heat deflection temperature of 124 C.and a Tg of 1400C. The polyesters and blends of the remaining examples in Table 1 are prepared using the procedures of Example 1. The examples illustrate the superior properties of the blends at various ratios of SDA andTPA, and various ratios of copolyester and polycarbonate. Table 1Notched Izod Impact Strength of Blends of T SDA CDM a Polycarbonate BlendsSDA Copolyester Notched IzodCopolyester Lexan 303 Impact Strengtg,TPA, SDA, Ratio Blend Tg Joules MeterMol Mol Wt Wt I.V. C 23 C 40 C Example No. 0 0 0 100 0.61 150 961 123 95 5 50 50 0.84 124 60 40 95 5 1.02 118 70 30 0.83 126 774 603 1 50 50 0.81 133 924 790 2 30 70 0.76 140 892 513 3 5 95 0.68 147 30 70 50 50 0.76 136 aT terephthalic acid, SDA trans 4,4 stilbenedicarboxylic acid, CDM 70 30 trans cis 1,4 cyclohexanedimethanol. Unless otherwise specified, all parts, percentages, ratios, etc. are by weight. The invention has been described in detail with particular reference to preferred embodiments thereof, but it will be understood that variations and modifications can be effected within the spirit and scope of the invention.