# Quinolonecarboxylic acid derivatives.

## Abstract
Quinolonecarboxylic acid derivatives of the following formula,

## Claims
What is claimed is 1. A compound of the formula I EMI46.1 wherein R, R1 and R2 are each independentlyhydrogen atom or lower alkyl group and Y is hydrogen atom or halogen atom the hydrates or the pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition or alkali salts thereof. 2. A process for the preparation of a compound of the forrula I EMI46.2 wherein R, R1 and R2 are each independently hydrogen atom or lower alkyl group and Y is hydrogen atom or halogen atom the hydrates or the pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition or alkali salts thereof, which comprises condensing a compound of the formula II EMI46.3 wherein R is hydrogen atom or lower alkyl group, X is halogen atom and Y is hydrogen atom or halogen atom with a secondary amine of the formula III EMI47.1 wherein R1 and R2 are each independently hydrogen atom or lower alkyl group. 3. A process for the preparation of a compound of the formula I EMI47.2 wherein R is a hydrogen atom and R1 and R2 are each independently hydrogen atom or lower alkyl group and Y is hydrogen atom or halogen atom the hydrates or the pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition or alkali salts thereof, which comprises hydrolyzing a compound of the formula IV EMI47.3 wherein R1 and R2 are each independently hydrogen atom or lower alkyl group, Y is hydrogen atom or halogen atom and A is lower alkyl group. 4. An antibacterial pharmaceutical composition comprising at least one compound according to claim 1 and an inert phar maceutically acceptable carrier.

## Description
Quinolonecarboxylic acid derivativesPriority November 13, 1984, Japan, Sho 59 239124 P Detailed description of the invention This invention is concerned with certain novel useful quinolonecarboxylic acid derivatives, having antibacterial activities, with a process for their preparation, and with compositions containing them. This invention provides compounds of the formula I EMI1.1 wherein R, R1 and R2 are each independently hydrogen atom or lower alkyl group and Y is hydrogen atom or halogen atom the hydrates and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. Since nalidixic acid which has been employed for treatment of urinary tract infections by gram negative bacteria, was introduced in 1963, intensive work has been carried out on the further development of quinolonecarboxylic acid analogue. Thus, recently a remarkable antibacterial activity against not only gram negative but also gram positive bacteria occurs for some compounds e.g. norfloxacin . However their activity against gram positive bacteria is fairly less than that against gram negative bacteria. Just recently, the drugs which have relatively strong activity against gram positive bacteria has been developed, but shown to possess weaker activity against gram negative bacteria than that of the prior compounds e.g. norfloxacin, ciprofloxacin . As a result of the investigation, the present inventors have now unexpectedly found that new derivatives of quinolonecarboxylic acid represented by the formula I have excitingly potential activity against gram positive bacteria without decrease of activity against gram negative bacteria in comparison with that of any prior analogue and therefore are superior to commercial preparations and investigational drugs in the in vitro and in vivo antibacterial activity against both gram negative and gram positive bacteria. Especially, the 8 chloro and 8 bromo compounds according to the present invention are valuable in human and veterinary medicine because of their greater activity and broader spectrum against both aerobic and anaerobic bacteria. While the compounds of the present invention show such . strong activities against bacteria, their toxicity against mammalian cells is very weak. The present compounds are well absorbed and distributed into the tissue when administered orally to animals. The present compounds, therefore, are active at low doses against both gram positive and gram negative bacteria and thus constitute valuable agents for the treatment of infectious human, animal or plant diseases. The compounds of the formula I are synthesized by reacting a compound of the formula 11 ,EMI3.1 wherein X is halogen atom, R and Y are the same as defined above, with a compound of the formula III ,EMI3.2 wherein R1 and R2 are the same as defined above. The reaction is preferably carried out by heating the two reactants in a solvent such as water, alcohols, acetonitrile, dimethylformamide DMF , dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO , hexamethylphosphoric triamide, pyridine, picoline and the like or in absence of the solvent with, if necessary, an acid acceptor such as an inorganic or organic acceptor, e.g., alkali metal carbonate such as potassium carbonate or tert amine, such as triethylamine, diazabicyclo base at room temperature to 200 C, preferably room temperature to 160 C, more preferably room temperature to 1200C for 1 to several hours.It is desirable that a slight excess 1 to 5 moles of the secondary amine of the formula III is used per mole of the compound of the formula II and a solvent is used such that the mixture remains homogeneous after dissolution of the compound of the formula II 2 to l0 fold volume per volume of the compound of the formula III . When R in the formula II is lower alkyl group, the reaction product carboxylic ester is hydrolyzed to the corresponding carboxylic acid by the usual manner. The hydrolysis is carried out by treating the compound of formula I2R is lower alkyl group with alkali metal hydroxide solution such as sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, or mineral acid such as hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid in water, aqueous alcohols or an appropriate solvent. Furthermore, the compounds of the formulaI I can be converted, if desired, to the pharmaceutically acceptable salts by treatment with acid or alkali. The acid may be organic or inorganic acids such as, for example, hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid, phosphoric acid, methanesulfonic acid, acetic acid, oxalic acid and lactic acid. The alkali salts may be, for example.sodium, potassium, magnesium, calcium, aluminum, cerium, chromium, cobalt, copper, iron, zinc, platinum and silver salts. The compound of the formula I , the hydrates and salts thereof may be used as medicines in the conventional form of pharmaceutical preparations, which may be, for example, tablets capsules, powder, ointments, supositories, injections or eye drops, suitable for peroral, parenteral, enteral or local administration. The following examples will further illustrate the invention without, however, limiting it thereto.Example 1. 7 t3 Aminomethyl l pyrrolidinyl l cyclopropyl 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid hydrochloride A mixutre of ethyl l cyclopropyl 6,7,8 trifluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylate 0.3 g , 1,8 diazabicyclo 5,4,0 7 undecene DBU, 0.15 g and 3 aminomethylpyrrolidine 0.14 g in acetonitrile 5 ml was refluxed under stirring for 3.5 hours. After cooling, the mixture was poured into ice water 50 ml and extracted three times with chloroform 50 ml . The extracts were washed with water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated to give the residue, ethyl 7 3 amino methyl l pyrrolidinyl l cyclopropyl 6.8 difluoro 4 oXo 3 quinolinecarboxylate. To the residue was added 1sodium hydroxide solution 6 ml and the mixture was stirred at 100 C for an hour. After cooling, the mixture was neutralized by adding acetic acid and concentrated. Purification of the residue by silica gel column chromatography CHCl3 s MeOH t con.NH4 oH 1O 3 3 gave the title compound 54 mg as pale yellow crystals, mp 248 250 C, after recrystallization from acetone HCl 1 . Analysis for C18H19F2N303.HCl.1 3 H2O Calcd. Found C, 53.27 53.40 H, 5.13 4.98 N, 10.35 10.35 . Example 2. 1 Cyclopropyl 7 3 ethylaminomethyl 1 pyrrolidinyl 6,8 difluoro 1,4,dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid hydrochloride A mixture of ethyl l cyclopropyl 6,7,8 trifluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylate 0.3 g , DBU 0.15 g and 3 ethylaminornethylpyrrolidine 0.13 g in acetonitrile 5 ml was refluxed under stirring for 3.5 hours. After cooling, the reaction mixture was poured into ice water 25 ml and extracted with chloroform 50 ml . The extract was washed with water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated. To the residue, ethyl cyclopropyl 7 3 ethylaminomethyl 1 pyrrolidinyl 6, 8 difluoro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylate, was added 1N sodium hydroxide solution 6 ml and the mixture was stirred at 70 to 80 C for an hour.After cooling, the mixture was neutralized by adding acetic acid and concentrated. The residue, after purified by silica gel column chromatography CHC13 t MeOH s con.NH4OH 10 s 10 s 3 , was dissolved in methanol containinhydrochloric acid. The solution was concentrated to dryness and the solid was recrystallized from methanol to give the title compound 0.11 g , mp 258 260 C. Analysis for C20H23F2N3Oc.HCl Calcd. Found C, 56.14 55.75 H, 5.65 5.57 N, 9.82 9.81 . Example 3. 3. 1 Cyclopropyl 6,7,8 trifluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oXo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid A mixture of ethyl 1 cyclopropyl 6,7,8 trifluoro 1,4dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylate 3.0 g , acetic acid 20 ml , sulfuric acid 2.5 ml and water 15 ml was refluxed under stirring for an hour. After cooling, the reaction mixture was poured into ice water. The precipitate was filtered, washed sufficently with water and dried in vacuum to give the title compound 2.59 g as colorless needles, mp 231 232 C. Analysis for C13H8F3NO3 Calcd. Found C, 55.13 55.11 H, 2.85 2.61 N, 4.95 4.79 .Example 4. 7 3 Aminomethyl l pyrrolidinyl l cyclopropyl 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid A mixture of l cyclopropyl 6,7,8 trifluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid 1.2 g , DBU 0.15 g and 3aminomethylpyrrolidine 0.45 g in anhydrous acetonitrile 10 ml was stirred under reflux for 1.5 hours and then at room temperature for 9.5 hours. The precipitate formed was filtered and recrystallized from dichloromethane methanol 1 1 .The title compound 0.88 g , mp 235 236 C, was obtained as colorless prisms. Analysis for C18H19F2N303 Calcd. Fond C, 59.50 59.45 H, 5.27 5.17 N, 11.56 11.53 .Example 5. 1 Cyclopropyl 7 3 ethylaminomethyl 1 pyrrolidinyl 6, 8 difluoro 1 , 4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid hydrochloride. A mixture of l cyclopropyl 6,7,8 trifluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid 1.2 g , DBU 0.65 g and 3ethylaminomethylpyrrolidine 0.57 g in anhydrous acetonitrile 10 ml was stirred under reflux for 1.5 hours and then at room temperature for 9.5 hours. The precipitate formed was filtered and dissolved in methanol containing hydrochloric acid. The solution was concentrated and the residue was recrystallized from water ethanol to give the title compound 0.7 g as pale yellow prisms, mp 256 258.5 C. Analysis for C20H23 F2N303.HCl Calcd. Found C, 56.14 56.04 H, 5.65 5.64 N, 9,82 9,74 .Example 6. 7 3 Aminomethyl l pyrrolidinyl l cyclopropyl 6 fluoro 1 , 4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid A mixture of 7 chloro 1 cyclopropyl 6 fluoro 1, 4 dihydro 4oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid 0.5 g and 3 aminomethylpyrrolidine 0.55 g in B picoline 18 ml was refluxed for 3 hours under stirring. After cooling, to the mixture was added concentrated aqueous ammonia. The resulting mixture was concentrated to give the residue, to which acetonitrile 50 ml was added. The precipitate was filtered, washed successively with ethanol ether its and ether and recrystallized from methanol to give the title compound 0.12 g as pale yellow prisms, mp 241 246 C. Analysis for C18H20FN303 Calcd. Found C, 62.60 62.30 H, 5.84 5.71 N, 12.17 12.11 .Example 7. 1 Cyclopropyl 7 3 ethylaminomethyl 1 pyrrolidinyl 6 fluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid hydrochloride A mixture of 7 chloro 1 cyclopropyl 6 fluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid 0.6 g and 3 ethylaminomethylpyrrolidine 0.81 g in B picoline 15 ml was refluxed for 2 hours under stirring. After cooling, concentrated aqueous ammonia 20 ml was added to the reaction mixture. The mixture was concentrated and the residue was dissolved in a mixture of concentrated hydrochloric acid and methynol. Removal of the solvent left a solid which was recrystallized from watermethanol ethyl acetate 1 s 1 1 to give the title compound 125 mg as colorless prisms, mp 282 285iC decompd. . Analysis for C20H24FN3O3.HCl, Calcd. Found num C, 58.10 58.18 H, 6.19 6.38 N, 10.16 10.20 .Example 8. 1 Cyclopropyl 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 7 3 methyl aminomethyl l pyrrolidinyl 4 oxo 3 quinoline carboxylic acid hydrochloride A mixture of l cyclopropyl 6,7,8 trifluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid 0.6 g , 3 methylaminomethylpyrrolidine 0.28 g and DBU 0.33 g in acetonitrile 5 ml was stirred under reflux for an hour and then at room temperature for 8 hours. The reaction mixture was treated by the same way as described in Example 5. The title compound was obtained as pale yellow prisms 0.46 g , mp 269 273 C decompds after recrystallization from methanol. Analysis t for C19H21F2N3O3.HCl, Calcd. Found C, 55.14 54.91 H, 5.36 5.31 N, 10.15 10.10 .Example 9. 1 Cyclopropyl 6 fluoro 1,4 dihydro 7 3 methylamino methyl 1 pyrrolidinyl 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid hydrochloride A mixture of 7 chloro 1 cyclopropyl 6 fluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid 0.6 g and 3 methylaminomethylpyrrolidine 0.75 g in B picoline 4 ml was stirred under reflux for 50 minutes and then at room temperature for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was treated by the same way as shown inExample 7. The title compound was obtained as pale yellow prisms 290 mg , mp 265 C decompd. after recrystallization from water. Analysis for C19H22FN3O3 HCl1 5 H2O, Calcd. Found C, 57.13 57.04 H, 5.90 5.83 N, 10.52 10.36 .Example 10. 1 Cyclopropyl 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 7 3 n propylaminomethyl 1 pyrrolidinyl 3 quinoline carboxylic acid hydrochloride A solution of ethyl l cyclopropyl 6,7,8 trifluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylate 0.3 g and 3 n propylaminomethylpyrrolidine 0.55 g in DMF 10 ml was stirred at 80 90 C for 2 hours. After cooling, the mixture was poured into icewater, alkalized by adding aqueous potassium carbonate solution and extracted with chloroform. The chloroform extract was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then concentrated. Then residue, ethyl l cyclopropyl 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 7 3 n propylaminomethyl l pyrrolidinyl 3 quinolinecarboxylate in aqueous 1N sodium hydroxide solution 10 ml was heated to reflux for an hour and then neutralized by adding acetic acid to give a crystalline precipitate which was collected by filtration and recrystallized from ethanol water acetonitrile. The product was dissolved in methanol containing hydrochloric acid and the solution was concentrated. The resulting residue was recrystallized from methanol to give the title compound 47 mg as fine brown crystals, mp 270 278 C decompd. . Analysis for C21H25F2N3O3.HCl.4 5 H20, Calcd. Found C, 55.28 55.13 H, 6.10 5.76 t N, 9.21 9.13 . Example 11. 1 Cylopropyl 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 7 3 iso propylaminomethyl l pyrrolidinyl 4 oxo 3 quinoline carboxylic acid hydrochloride A mixture of ethyl 1 cyclopropyl 6,7,8 trifluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylate 0.15 g and 3 isopropylaminomethylpyrrolidine 0.27 g in DMF 10 ml was stirred at 80 900C for 2 hours. After cooling, the mixture was diluted with ice water, alkalized by adding aqueous potassium carbonate solution and extracted with chloroform. The chloroform extract was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then concentrated.The resulting residue, ethyl 1 cyclopropyl 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 7 3 isopropylaminomethyl 1 pyrrolidinyl 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylate in aqueous lN sodium hydroxide solution was heated to reflux for an hour. The mixture was neutralized by adding acetic acid and concentrated. The resisue was purified by silica gel column chromatography CHCl3 s MeOH s con.NH4OH 10 10 s 3 . The product was dissoluved in methanol containing hydrochloric acid. Removal of the solvent left the title compound which was recrystallized from methanol to give fine brown crystals 15 mg , mp 265 271C decompd. . Analysis 8 fbr C21H25F2N303.HCl.1 2 H2O, Calcd. Found C, 55.94 56.04 H, 6.04 5.85 N, 9.32 9.31 .Example 12. 8 Chloro l cyclopropyl 6 fluoro 1,4 dihydro 7 3 methylaminomethyl l pyrrolidinyl 4 oxo 3 quinoline carboxylic acid hydrochloride A mixture of 8 chloro 1 cyclopropyl 6,7 difloro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid 0.4 g , 3 methylamino methylpyrrolidine 0,17 g and DBU 0.2 g in acetonitrile 4 ml was refluxed for 2 hours and allowed to stand overnight during which time a crystal separated. The crystal, free form of the title compound, was collected by filtration and weighted 0.5 g.The product was dissolved in a mixture of concentrated hydrochloric acid and methanol. Removal of the solvent left the title compound which was recrystallized from ethanol to give yellow prisms 0.3 g , mp 206 210 C decompd. . Analysis for C19H21ClFN3O3.HCl1 3 H20, Calcd. Found C, 52.30 52.05 H, 5.24 5.03 N, 9.63 9.45 . In this example, the starting material is also novel and it is synthesized by following process.Reference example 1. N 3 Chloro 4 fiuorophenyl acetamide To 3 chloro 4 fluoroaniline 100 g was slowly added acetic anhydride 200 ml . After allowed to stand for 30 minutes, the reaction mixture was poured into water 1 litter . The resulting precipitate was collected by filtration and recrystallized from aqueous ethanol to give the title compound 119.4 g , mp 118 1l90C. Reference example 2. N 3 Chloro 4 fluoro 6 nitrophenyl acetamide To a solution of N 3 chloro 4 fluorophenyl acetamide 55 g in concentrated sulfuric acid 165 ml was added dropwise concentrated nitric acid d 1.42, 154 ml at 5 10 C during an hour with stirring in an ice salt bath. After stirring for an hour at the same temperature, the reaction mixture was poured into ice water.The resulting precipitate was collected by filtration, suf ficiently washed with water and recrystallized from acetonitrile to give the title compound 48.9 g as yellow needles, mp 114 1150C. Analysis 8 for C8H6Cl FN2O35 Calcd. Found C, 41.31 41.48 H, 2.60 2.52 N, 12.04 12.13 .Reference example 3. 3 Chloro 4 fluoro 6 nitroaniline A solution of N 3 chloro 4 fluoro 6 nitrophenyl acetamide 30 g in concentrated hydrochloric acid 50 ml and ethanol 200 ml was refluxed for 2.5 hours. To the reaction mixture was added ice water 300 ml and the resulting precipitate was collected by filtration, washed with water and dried to give the title compound 24.9 g as yellow needles, mp 149.5 150 C. Analysis for C6H4ClFN202, Calcd. Found C, 37.82 37.85 H, 2.11 2.03 N, 14.70 14.80 .Reference example 4. 2,3 Dichloro 4 fluoro 6 nitroaniline Into a solution of 3 chloro 4 fluoro 6 nitroaniline 14.3 g in acetic acid 150 ml was bubbled chlorine gas at 18 20 C during 70 minutes. The reaction mixture was poured into ice water 300 ml and the resulting precipitate was collected by filtration, washed with water and recrystallized from ethanol to give the title compound 14.33 g as yellow needles, mp 161 C. Analysis for C6H3C12FN202, Calcd. Found sC, 32.03 32.17 H, 1.34 1.26 N, 12.45 12.65 .Reference example 5. 2,3,4 Trichloro 5 fluoronitrobenzene To a mixture of anhydrous cupric chloride 13.58 g and tert butylnitrite 12.4 g in anhydrous acetonitrile 100 ml was added portionwise 2,3 dichloro 4 fluoro 6 nitroaniline 18.05 g at 60 62 C during 30 minutes. After stirring for 30 minutes at 60 65 C, the reaction mixture was poured into chilled 10 diluted hydrochloric acid 300 ml and extradited with benzene. The organic layer was successively washed with diluted hydrochloric acid and water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated. The resulting residue was purified by distillation to give the title compound 17.26 g , bp 137 142 C 27 mmHg. NMR d in CDC13 , 7.65 d, J 7.5 Hz Reference example 6. 3 Chloro 2,4,5 trifluoronitrobenzene To a suspension of potassium fluoride 64.9 g in anhydrous dimethyl sulfoxide 230 ml was added 2,3,4 trichloro 5 fluoronitrobenzene 54.4 g at 140 C and stirred at the same temperature for 10 minutes. The reaction mixture was poured into ice water 700 ml and extracted with petroleum ether. The organic layer was successively washed with water, aqueous potassium carbonate solution and then water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated. The resulting residue was distilled to give the title compound 9.7 g , bp 95 108 C 30mmHg. NMR d in CDC13 , 7.94 ddd, Jn6.7, 7.6, 9.0 Hz Reference example 7. 3 Chloro 2 cyclopropylamino 4 , 5 difluoro nitrobenzene A solution of cyclopropylamine 2.8 g and triethylamine 5.1 g in anhydrous toluene 20 ml was added dropwise to a solution of 3 chloro 2,4,5 trifluoronitrobenzene 9.7 g in anhydrous toluene 30 ml at 3 50C during 40 minutes with stirring.After stirring for 3 hours at the same temperature, the reaction mixture was poured into ice water 150 ml and extracted with dichloromethane. The organic layer was washed with water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then concentrated. The resulting residue was purified by silica gel chromatography using n hexane dichloromethane as an eluent to give the title compound 4.4 g as red oil.NMR d in CDC13 , 0.5 1.0 4H, m,EMI15.1 3.0 3.2 1H, m,EMI15.2 7.19 1H, s, NH , 7.85 1H, dd, J 8.2, 9.9 Hz, 5 H .Reference example 8. N 2 Chloro 3, 4 difluoro 6 nitrophenyl N cyclopropylacetamide To 3 chloro 2 cyclopropylamino 4 ,5 difluoronitrobenzene 4.4 g was added acetic anhydride 15 ml with one portion and the mixture was stirred for 30 minutes at room temperature, and then poured into ice water 100 ml . Excessive acetic anhydride was decomposed by potassium carbonate powder, and then the mixture was allowed to stand overnight at 5 C. The resulting precipitate was collected by filtration and recrystallized from ethyl acetate n hexane toigive the title compound 2.7 g , mp 98 99.5 C. Analysis for C11H9ClF2N2O35 Calcd. Found C, 45.46 45.56 H, 3.12 3.00 N, 9.64 9.69 .Reference example 9. N 2 Chloro 3,4 difluorophenyl N cyclo propylacetamide A mixture of N 2 chloro 3 , 4 difluoro 6 nitrophenyl N cyclopropylacetamide 2.7 g and 10 palladium charcoal 0.5 g in ethanol 50 ml was hydrogenated for 40 minutes at 2 3 C under atmospheric pressure in an ice bath. The catalyst was filtered off and the filtrate was concentrated. Then, the resulting crystalline residue was dried in vacuo at room temperature for 10 hours. A solution of the residue in anhydrous dimethylformamide 15 ml was added dropwise to a solution of tert butyl nitrite 1.72 g in anhydrous dimethylformamide 10 ml at 50 52 C during 13 minutes. The reaction mixture was stirred at the same temperature for 5 minutes, then poured into ice water and extracted with ether.The organic layer was successively washed with water, dilute hydrochloric acid and water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated. The resulting residue was purified by silica gel chromatography using n hexane ethyl acetate as an eluent and recrystallized from petroleum ether to give the title campound 0.44 g , mp 60.5 61.5 C. Analysis for CllHloClF2NO, Calcd. Found C, 53.78 53.87 H, 4.10 4.02 N, 5.70 5.78 .Reference example 10. N Cyclopropyl 2 chloro 3. 4 difluoroaniline A solution of N 2 chloro 3,4 difluorophenyl9 Ncyclopropyl acetamide 0.44 g in 20 diluted hydrochloridfecid 7 ml was heated at 80 100 C for 6 hours with stirring, and then cooled.The reaction mixture was poured into ice water, alkalized with aqueous sodium hydroxide and extracted with ether. The ether layer was washed with water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then concentrated. The resulting residue was purified by silica gel chromatography using petroleum ether as an eluent to give the title compound 100 mg as orange oil.Reference example 11. Ethyl 8 chloro 1 cyclopropyl 6,7 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylate A mixture of N cyclopropyl 2 chloro 3,4 difluoroaniline 100 mg and diethyl ethoxymethylenemalonate 100 mg was stirred for 10.5 hours at 100 135 C with removal of generated ethanol by flowing nitrogen gas, and then cooled. Polyphosphoric acid 1 g was mixed with this, and the mixture was stirred for 3 hours at 125 135 C. After cooling, the reaction mixture poured into ice water, extracted with chloroform. The organic layer was successively washed with aqueous potassium carbonate and water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then concentrated.The resulting residue was purified with silica gel thin layer chromatography using ether as an eluent to give the title compound 11 mg as colorless needles, mp 160 162.5 C. NMR d in CDC13 , 1.0 1.5 4H, m,EMI17.1 1.40 3H, t, J 7.0Hz, CH3 , 4.1 4.4 1H, m,EMI17.2 4.38 2H, q, J 7.O Hz, CH2CH3 , 8.22 1H, dd, Jx8.8, 9.7 Hz, 5 H , 8.66 1H, s, 2 H Reference example 12. 2,3,4 Trichloro 5 fluoroaniline To a suspension of iron powder 54.6 g in water 60 ml , with vigorous stirring at 50 6OC, was slowlydedded concentrated hydrochloric acid 6.7 ml . After ethanol 150 ml was mixed, 2,3,4 trichloro 5 fluoronitrobenzene 75.1 g was added portionwise to the suspension at 60 70 C during an hour. After stirring for an hour at 80 C. the hot reaction mixture was filtered and the insoluble material was successively washed with hot ethanol 100 ml and benzene 300 ml .The filtrate and washings were combined and mixed with ice water. The resulting organic layer was collected and the water layer was extracted with benzene 200 ml . The organic layers were washed with water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then concentrated. The resulting residue was recrystallized from n hexane to give the title compound 58.6 g as light brown needles, mp 118 120 C. Reference example 13. 2,3,4 Trichloro 5 fluorobenzonitrile To a suspension of 2,3,4 trichloro 5 fluoroaniline 43.8 g in concentrated hydrochloric acid 300 ml with vigorous stirring was added sodium nitrite 21.1 g in water 50 ml at 2 0C for 20 minutes. After stirred for 30 minutes, the mixture was poured into ice water 300 ml containing sodium tetrafluoroborate 67.2 g , stirred vigorously and then allowed to stand for 30 minutes in an ice bath. The resulting precipitate was collected by filtration and successively washed with chilled water and ether.This faint yellow precipitate was added portionwise during 30 minutes to a solution of cuprous cyanide 36.5 g , potassium cyanide 53.0 g and sodium carbonate 11.1 g in water 300 ml with vigorous stirring at room temperature. After the mixture was stirred for 30 minutes, benzene 300 ml was added to the suspension and then the mixture was stirred forl15 minutes. The insoluble material was collected by filtration, and washed with benzene 150 ml . The filtrate and washings were combined and successively washed with 20 aqueous potassium cyanide and water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then concentrated. The resulting residue was recrystallized from n hexane to give the title compound 27 g as light brown needles, mp 97 99 C. Reference example 14. 3 Chloro 2 ,4 ,5 trifluorobenzonitrile To a solution of potassium fluoride 31.7 g in dimethyl sulfoxide 100 ml with stirring at 130C was added 2,3,4 tri chloro 5 fluorobenzonitrile 15 g and then the mixture was stirred for 1.5 hours at 1400C. After cooling, the reaction mixture was poured into ice water 300 ml and extracted with dichloromethane. The organic layer was washed with water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated to give the title compound 11.9 g as pale brown oil.Reference example 15. 3 Chloro 2,4,5 trifluorobenzamide A solution of 3 chloro 2,4,5 trifluorobenzonitrile 11.9 g in 30 hydrogen bromide acetic acid 150 ml was refluxed for 80 minutes, poured into ice water 350 ml and extracted with ether.The ether layer was successively washed with 1N potassium hydroxide solution and water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with n hexane ethyl acetate to give the title compound 3.97 g , mp 110 113.5 C. Reference example 16. 3 Chloro 2,4,5 trifluorobenzoic acid A mixture of 3 chloro 2,4,5 trifluorobenzamide 3.97 g and 18N sulfuric acid 20 ml was stirred at 125 5 C for 9 hours, and then poured into ice water 10C ml . After standing overnight, the resulting precipitate was collected by filtration.The mother liquor was extracted with ether, and the ether layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, then concentrated and mixed to the precipitate. A solution of the above precipitate and residue in dichloromethane 150 ml was filtered through a celite pad and the filtrate was concentrated to give the title compound 2.38 g , mp 115 116.5iC. Analysis for C7H2ClF302, Calcd. Found C, 39.93 40.18 H, 0.96 0.80 . Reference example 17. 3 Chloro 25455 trifluorobenzoyl chloride A solution of the 3 chloro 2,4,5 trifluorobenzoic acid 2.38 g in thionyl chloride 10 ml was reluxed for 2.5 hours, and then concentrated. The resulting residue was purified by distillation in nitrogen atomosphere to give the title compound 1.99 g , bp 88 C 19 mmHg.Reference example 18. Diethyl 3 chloro 2,4,5 trifluorobenzoyl malonate Magnesium turnings 0.22 g and carbon tetrachloride 0.1 ml was added to absolute ethanol 1.5 ml . To the stirring suspension was added dropwise a solution of diethyl malonate 1.4 g and absolute ethanol 2 ml in toluene 6 ml during 28 minutes at 47 60 C. The mixture was stirred for 80 minutes, and then cooled in an acetone dry ice bath. A solution of 3 chloro2,4,5 trifluorobenzoyl chloride 1.99 g in anhydrous toluene 2 ml was added dropwise to the resulting solution at 12 80C during 13 minutes. The mixture was stirred for 2 hours at 10 5µC allowed to stand overnight at room temperature, and then mixed with ice water 6 ml containing concentrated sulfuric acid 0.4 ml .The resulting organic layer was collected and the water layer was extracted with toluene. The combined organic layer was washed with water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then concentrated to give the title compound 3.05 g as pale yellow oil.Reference example 19. Ethyl 3 chloro 2, 4, 5 trifluorobenzoyl acetate To an emulsion of diethyl 3 chloro 2,4,5 trifluorobenzoyl malonate 3.05 g in water 4 ml was added p toluenesulfonic acid 4 mg and refluxed for 4 hours with vigorous stirring.After cooling, the reaction mixture was extracted with dichloromethane. The organic layer was washed with water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated. The residue was recrystallized from ether n hexane to give the title compound 1.22 g , mp 80 83eC. Analysis for CllH8ClF303, Calcd. Found C, 47.08 46.96 H, 2.87 2.77 .Reference example 20. Ethyl 2 3 chloro 2,4,5 trifluorobenzoyl 3 ethoxyacrylate A mixture of ethyl 3 chloro 2,4,5 trifluorobenzoylacetate 1.22 g , ethyl orthoformate 0.97 g and acetic anhydride 1.12 g was stirred at 118 143 C for 3 hours and then concentrated to give the title compound 1.4 g as yellow oil.Reference example 21. Ethyl 2 3 chloro 2,4,5 trifluorobenzoyl 3 cyclopropylaminoacrylate To a solution of ethyl 2 3 chloro 2,4,5 trifluorobenzoyl 3 ethoxyacrylate 1.4 g in absolute ethanol 3 ml was added a solution of cyclopropylamine 0.26 g in absolute ethanol 2 ml at 5 10 C during 15 minutes. The mixture was allowed to stand at 50C for 1.5 hours and then stirred at room temperature for an hour. The resulting precipitate was collected by filtration.The filtrate was concentrated, mixed with the precipitate and then recrystallized from petroleum ether to give the title compound 1.09 g , mp 84 85.50C. Analysis for C15Hl3ClF3NO3, Calcd. Found C, 51.81 51.76 H, 3.77 3.74 N, 4.03 4.03 .Reference example 22. Ethyl 8 chloro 1 cyclopropyl 6,7 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecabylate To a solution of ethyl 2 3 chloro 2,4,5 trifluorobenzoyl 3 cyclopropylaminoacrylate 1.09 g in anhydrous dimethylformamide 5 ml was added sodium fluoride 0.21 g . The mixture was stirred at 130 156 C for 3.5 hours, and then poured into ice water 50 ml and the resulting precipitate was collcted by filtration, washed with water and recrystallized from ethyl acetate to give the title compound 0.96 g , mp 158 159 C. Analysis for C C15Hl2ClF2N03, Calcd. Found C, 54.98 54.96 H, 3.69 3.57 N, 4.27 4.25 .Reference example 23. 8 Chloro 1 cyclopropyl 6,7 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid A mixture of ethyl 8 chloro 1 cyclopropyl 6,7 difluoro 1,4dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylate 0.24 g , acetic acid 2 ml , water 1.5 ml and concentrated sulfuricecid 0.25 ml was refluxed for an hour, and then poured into ice water. The resulting precipitate was collected by filtration and successively washed with water and ether to give the title compound 0.17 g , mp 194 195iC. Analysis t for C13H8ClF2N03, Calcd. Found C, 52.11 52.00 H, 2.69 2.53 N, 4.67 4.64 .Example 13. 8 Chloro l cyclorpropyl 6 fluoro 1,4 dihydro 7 3 ethylaminomethyl l pyrrolidinyl 4 oxo 3 quinoline carboxylic acid A mixture of 8 chloro 1 cyclopropyl ,67 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid 0.4 g , 3 ethylaminomethylpyrrolidine 0.19 g and DBU 0.2 g in acetonitrile 4 ml was heated to reflux for 2 hours and then allowed to stand overnight during which time a crystal separated. The crystal, title compound, was filtered and recrystallized from chloroformmethanol giving colorless prisms 0.39 g , mp 250 252iC decompd. . Analysis for C20H23ClFN303 1 2 H2O, Calcd. Found C, 57.62 57.48 H, 5.80 5.52 N, 10.08 10.07 .Example 14. 8 Chloro l cyclopropyl 6 fluoro 1,4 dihydro 7 3 aminomethyl 1 pyrrolidinyl 4 oxo 3 quinoline carboxylic acid hydrochloride A mixture of 8 chloro 1 cyclopropyl 6,7 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid 0.35 g , 3 aminomethylpyrrolidine 0.13 g , and DBU 0.19 g in acetonitrile 4 ml was refluxed for 2 hours and then allowed to stand overnight.A solid separated was collected by filtration and recrystallized from chloroform methanol n hexane giving the crystalline product which was further purified by silica gel column chromatography using chloroform methanol concentrated aqueous ammonia 20 6 1 as eluent to obtain the free form 188 mg of the title compound. The compound was dissolved in a mixture of methanol and concentrated to dryness. The residue was successively recrystallized from ethanol acetonitrile and ethanol to give the title compound 14 mg as pale yellow prisms, mp 238 247 C decompd. . Analysis for C18H19C1FN303.HCl, Calcd. Found C, 51.94 51.63 H, 4.84 5.01 N, 10.09 9.85 .Example 15. 7 3 Aminomethyl l pyrrolidinyl 8 bromo 1 cyclo propyl 6 fluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinoline carboxylic acid A mixture of 8 bromo 1 cyclopropyl 6, 7 difluoro 1, 4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid 200 mg , 3 aminomethylpyrrolidine 60 mg and DBU 90 mg in acetonitrile 3 ml was stirred for an hour under refluxing and then for further 4 hours at room temperature. The crystals which separated were collected and recrystallized from dichloromethane to give the title compound 40 mg as pale yellow prisms, mp 222 230 C decompd. . Analysis for C18HlgBrFN303.H2O, Calcd. Found C, 48.80 48.80 H, 4.79 4.74 N, 9.50 9.45 . In this example, the starting material is also novel and it is synthesized by following process.Reference example 24. 2 Bromo 3 chloro 4 fluoro 6 nitroaniline Into a solution of 3 chloro 4 fluoro 6 nitroaniline 200,3 g in acetic acid 1.5 litter was added bromine 339 g during a period of 80 minutes at 50 C under stirring and stirred for further 2 hours. The reaction mixture was poured into ice water 3 litter and the resulting precipitate was collected by filtration, washed with water and added to a mixture of concentrated hydrochloric acid 300 ml and ethanol 1.2 litter . The mixture was refluxed for 8.5 hrs. After cooling, the precipitate was collected by filtration and washed with water and dried. The title compound thus obtained weighed 235.6 g as yellow needles, mp 146 147iC. Reference example 25. 3 Bromo 2,4 dichloro 5 fluoronitrobenzene To a mixture of anhydrous cupric chloride 147 g and 2 bromo 3 chloro 4 fluoro 6 nitroanilins 235.6 g in anhydrous acetonitrile 1.5 litter was added tert butylnitrite 135.2 g at 600C during 70 minutes. The reaction mixture was poured into ice chilled diluted hydrochloric acid 1.5 litter and extracted with benzene. The organic layer was successively washed with ice chilled diluted hydrochloric acid and water saturated with sodium chloride, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated. The resulting residue was purified by distillation to give the title compound 218.8 g , bp 78 1170C 2 mmHg.The oil was crystallized from methanol to give yellow prisms, mp 65.5 67.5C. Reference example 26. 3 Bromo 2,4 dichloro 5 fluoroaniline To a suspension of iron powder 135.4 g in water 140 ml , with vigorous stirring at 50 600C, was slowly added concentrated hydrochloric acid 18 ml . After ethanol 350 ml was mixed, 3bromo 2,4 dichloro 5 fluoronitrobenzene 218.8 g was added portionwise to the suspension at 52 76 C during an hour. After stirring for 75 minutes at the same temperature, the hot reaction mixture was filtered after adding benzene 500 ml and the insoluble material was successively washed with hot ethanol 100 ml and benzene 200 ml . The filtrate and washings were combined. The organic layers were washed with water saturated with sodium chloride, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then concentrated.The resulting residue was recrystallized from ethanol water to give the title compound 141.6 g as light brown needles, mp 126 129.5 C. Reference example 27. 3 Bromo 2,4 dichloro 5 fluorobenzonitrile To a suspension of 3 bromo 2,4 dichloro 5 fluoroaniline 141.6 g in concentrated hydrochloric acid 900 ml with vigorous stirring was added sodium nitrite 56.6 g in water 120 ml at 2 s0iC for 40 minutes. After stirred for 30 minutes, the mixture was poured into ice water 700 ml containing sodium tetrafluoroborate 180 g , stirred vigorously for 20 minutes and then allowed to stand for 15 minutes in an ice bath. The resulting precipitate was collected by filtration and washed with chilled water. The wet crude tetrafluoroborate thus obtained weighed 270.8 g.The borate was added portionwise during 45 minutes to a solution of cuprous cyanide 98 g , potassium cyanide 142.4 g and sodium carbonate 29 g in water 800 ml with vigorous stirring at 9 10 C. After the mixture was stirred for 2 hours at room temperature, benzene 700 ml and potassium cyanide 71 g were added to the suspension and then the mixture was stirred for 30 minutes. The insoluble material was collected by filtration, and washed with benzene 300 ml x 2 . The filtrate and washings were combined and washed five times with water saturated with sodium chloride, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then concentrated. The resulting residue was recrystallized from ethanol to give the title compound 75.5 g as red brown prisms, mp 110.5 112.5eC. Reference example 28. 3 Bromo 2, 4 ,5 trifluorobenzonitrile To a solution of potassium fluoride 123 g in dimethyl sulfoxide 400 ml with stirring at 1330C was added 3 bromo 2,4 dichloro 5 fluorobenzonitrile 68.4 g and then the mixture was stirred for 5 hours and 20 minutes at 1300C. After cooling, the reaction mixture was poured into ice water 1 litter and extracted with benzene. The organic layer was washed with water saturated with sodium chloride, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and distilled to give the title compound 15.7 g as colorless oil, bp 82.5 C 13 mmHg 80.O C lmmHg. Reference example 29. 3 Bromo 2,4,5 trifluorobenzoic acid A mixture of 3 bromo 2,4,5 trifluorobenzonitrile 13.9 g in concentrated sulfuric acid 8 ml was heated for 20 minutes on an oil bath 100 C , poured into ice water 350 ml . The resulting precipitate was collected by filtration and washed with water.The filtrate and washings were extracted 3 times with dichloromethane. The dichloromethane layer was washed with water saturated with sodium chloride, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated to give the residue. The combined mixture of the precipitate obtained previously and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with dichloromethane dichloromethane z methanol 10 s 1 to give 3 bromo2,4,5 trifluorobenzamide 8.7 g . A mixture of 3 bromo 2,4,5 trifluorobenzamide 8.7 g and 18N sulfuric acid 50 ml was stirred at 100 C for 4 hours, and then poured into ice water 200 ml . The resulting precipitate was collected by filtration and recrystallized from dichloromethane n hexane to give the title compound 6.9 g , mp 125 127 C. Reference example 30. 3 Bromo 2,4,5 trifluorobenzoyl chloride A solution of the 3 bromo 2,4,5 trifluorobenzoic acid 2.5 g in thionyl chloride 10 ml was refluxed for 2.5 hours, and then concentrated. The resulting residue was purified by distil lation through Widmer fractionating column to give the title compound 2.3 g , bp 98 102iC 18 mmHg.Reference example 31. Diethyl 3 bromo 2,4,5 trifluorobenzoyl malonate Magnesium turnings 0.22 g and carbon tetrachloride 0.1 ml was added to absolute ethanol 1.5 ml . To the stirring suspension was added dropwise a solution of diethyl malonate 1.4 g and absolute ethanol 2 ml in toluene 6 ml during 25 minutes at 50 600C. The mixture was stirred for 40 minutes, and then cooled. A solution of 3 bromo 2,4,5 trifluorobenzoyl chloride 2.27 g in anhydrous toluene 3 ml was added dropwise to the solution at 8 4.50C during 28 minutes. The mixture was stirred for 2 hours and then mixed with ice chilled diluted sulfuric acid. The resulting organic layer wascollected and the water layer was extracted with toluene 6 ml x 4 .The combined organic layer was washed with water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then concentrated to give the title compound 3.25 g as pale yellow oil.Reference example 32. Ethyl 3 bromo 2,4,5 trifluorobenzoyl acetate To an emulsion of diethyl 3 bromo 2,4,5 trifluorobenzoylmalonate 3.25 g in water 4 ml was added p toluenesulfonic acid 4 mg and refluxed for 3 hours with vigorous stirring.After cooling, the reaction mixture was extracted with dichloro methane 8 ml x 4 . The organic layer was washed with water saturated with sodium chloride, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated. The residue was recrystallized from dichloromethane n hexane to give the title compound 1.51 g , mp 85 88 C. Reference example 33. Ethyl 2 3 bromo 2,4,5 trifluorobenzoyl 3 ethoxyacrylate A mixture of ethyl 3 bromo 2,4,5 trifluorobenzoylacetate 1.5 g , ethyl orthoformate 1.0 g and acetic anhydride 1.2 g was stirred at 1300C for 4.5 hours and then concentrated to give the title compound 1.75 g as yellow oil.Reference example 34. Ethyl 2 3 bromo 2,4,5 trifluorobenzoyl 3 cyclopropylaminoacrylate To a solution of ethyl 2 3 bromo 2,4,5 trifluorobenzoyl 3ethoxyacrylate 1.75 g in absolute ethanol 5 ml was added a solution of cyclopropylamine 0.32 g in absolute ethanol 2 ml under ice cooling during 30 minutes. The mixture was stirred at 5 200C for 2.5 hours and concentrated. The residue was recrystallized from petroleum ether to give the title compound 1.36 g , mp 74 76 C.Reference example 35. Ethyl 8 bromo 1 cycl6propyl 6,7 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylate To a solution of ethyl 2 3 bromo 2,4,5 trifluorobenzoyl 3cyclopropylaminoacrylate 1.35 g in anhydrous dimethylformamide 5 ml was added sodium fluoride 0.23 g . The mixture was stirred at 97 108iC for 7.5 hours, and then poured into ice water 50 ml and the resulting precipitate was collected by fil tration, washed with water and recrystallized from dichloromethane n hexane to give the title compound 1.05 g , mp 163.5 1680C as colorless prisms.Reference example 36. 8 Bromo l cyclopropyl 6,7 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid A mixture of ethyl 8 bromo 1 cyclopropyl 6,7 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylate 1.0 g , acetic acid 4 ml , water 3 ml and concentrated sulfuric acid 0.5 ml was heated on an oil bath 90 100 C for an hour under stirring, then for an hour at room temperature and poured into ice water 20 ml . The resulting precipitate was collected by filtration and washed with water to give the title compound 0.82 g , mp 224225.50C.Example 16. 8 Bromo l cyclopropyl 6 fluoro 1,4 dihydro 7 3 methylaminome thyl l pyrrolidinyl 4 oxo 3 quinoline carboxylic acid A mixture of 8 bromo 1 cyclopropyl 6,7 dtiuoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid 200 mg , 3 methylaminomethylpyrrolidine FO mg and DBU 100 mg in acetonitrile 3 ml was stirred for an hour under refluxing and then for further 3 hours at room temperature. The crystals which separated were collected and recrystallized from chloroform methanol ammonia to give the title compound 160 mg as pale yellow prisms, mp 242.5 2460C decompd. . Analysis z for C19H21BrFN3O3, Calcd. Found C, 52.07 52.28 H, 4.83 4.85 N, 9.59 9.61 .Example 17. 8 Bromo l cyclopropyl 7 3 ethylaminomethyl 1 pyrrodinyl 6 fluoro 1,4 dihydro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid A mixture of 8 bromo 1 cyclopropyl 6,7 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid 280 mg , 3 ethylaminomethylpyrrolidine 90 mg and DBU 90 mg in acetonitrile 3 ml was stirred for an hour under refluxing and then for further 3 hours at room temperature. The crystals which separated were collected and recrystallized from chloroform methanol ammonia to give the title compound 150 mg as colorless prisms, mp 258 260 C decompd. Analysis 8 for C20H23BrFN303, Calcd. Found C, 53.11 53.54 H, 5.12 5.11 N, 9.29 9.43 .Example 18. Ethyl 8 chloro 1 cyclopropyl 7 3 ethylaminoethyl l pyrrolidinyl 6 fluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylate A mixture of ethyl 8 chloeo 1 cyclopropyl 6,7 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylate 500 mg , acetonitrile 5 ml , 3 ethylaminomethyipyrrolidine 296 mg and DBU 233 mg was refluxed for 5 hours and then concentrated to give the residue, to which ice water 20 ml was added. The mixture was extracted with chloroform. The extract was washed with water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated to give the title compound 800 mg as brown oil. IR cm 3010, 1720, 1610, 1450, 1315.NMR d in CDC13 s 0.9 1.3 4H, m,EMI31.1 1.12 3H, t, NCH2CH3 , 1.39 3H, t, O CH2CH3 , 1.5 1.9 1H, m,EMI31.2 2.0 2.2 1H, m,EMI31.3 2.2 2.55 1H, m,EMI31.4 2.68 4H, m,EMI31.5 3.3 3.7 4H, m,EMI32.1 4.17 1H, m,EMI32.2 4.37 2H, q, CH2CH3 , 7.93 1H, d, J 13.6 Hz, 5 H , 8.60 1H, s, 2 H . Example 19. 8 Chloro l cyclopropyl t 3 ethylaminomethyl 1 pyrrolidinyl 6 fluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid A mixture of ethyl 8 chloro 1 cyclopropyl 7 3 ethylamino methyl 1 pyrrolidiyl 6 fluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylate 800 mg and 1N sodium hydroxide 8 ml was refluxed for 1 1 3 hours and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography CHCl3 t MeOH 4 1 to give yellow crystalline powder. The powder was suspended in acetonitrile, then collected by filtration and recrystallized from chloroform methanol to give the title compound 130 mg as yellow prisms, mp 248 251 C decompd. . Analysis for C20H23ClFN3O3 1 4 H2O, Calcd. Found C, 58.25 58.46 H, 5.74 5.65 N, 10.19 10.26 .Example 20. 8 Chloro 1 cyclopropyl 6 fluoro A dihydro 7 3 dimethyldaminomethylaminomethyl 1 pyrrolidinyl 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid A mixture of 8 chloro 1 cyclopropyl 6,7 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid 500 mg , 3 dimethylaminomethylpyrrolidine 330 mg , DBU 250 mg and acetonitrile 5 ml was refluxed for an hour under stirring, then allowed to stand for overnight and concentrated. To the resulting residue was added methanol and the mixture was filtered to collect the crystalline product which was recrystallized from chloroformmethanol to give the title compound 430 mg as yellow prisms, mp 175 176 C. Analysis for C20H23C1FN303, Calcd. Found C, 58.90 59.02 , H, 5.68 5.70 N, 10.30Example 21. 1 Cyclopropyl 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 7 3 dimethylaminomethyl l pyrrolidinyl 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid A mixture of 1 cyclopropyl 6,7,8 trifluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid 500 mg , 3 dimethylaminomethylpyrrolidine 340 mg , DBU 270 mg and acetonitrile 5 ml was refluxed for an hour under stirring, allowed to stand for overnight and filtered to collect the crystalline product which was washed with acetonitrile and ether successively to give the title compound 420 mg as pale yellow needles, mp 178 181 C. Analysis 8 for C20H23F2N3035 Calcd. Found C, 61.37 61.03 H, 5.92 5.95 N, 10.74 10.76 .Experiment l In vitro antibacterial activity The in vitro antibacterial activity against gram positive and gram negative bacteria has been investivated. The minimum inhibitory concentration MIC was determined in accordance with the method recommended by Japan Society ofChemotherapy. The result of the test was shown in Table 1 and 2. In these experiments, the 8 chloro or 8 bromo compounds described in Example 12 to 20 have antibacterial properties which are even more marked than those of their 8 hydrogen or 8 fluoro homologues, as shown in Table 1 and 2, against aerobic grampositive bacteria and anaerobic bacteria. Table 1 1 In vitro antibacterial activity standart strain EMI34.1 tb SEP HIC g ml tb SEP Organism SEP 106 SEP cells ml SEP Gram tb SEP Exp1 SEP Exp2 SEP Exp4 SEP Exp6 SEP Exp7 tb Bacillussubtills SEP PC 219 SEP 0,025 SEP 0,0125 SEP 0,025 SEP O,05 SEP 0,025 tb Staphilococcus SEP aureus SEP 209 SEP P SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 tb S. SEP aureus SEP Smith SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.10 tb S. SEP aureus SEP IID SEP 670 SEP Terajima SEP t SEP .05 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 tb S. SEP epidermidin SEP IID SEP 866 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 tb Streptococcus SEP pyogenes SEP S 8 SEP SEP t SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.39 tb S. SEP pyogenes SEP IID SEP 692 SEP t SEP t SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 tb S. SEP pneumoniae SEP llD SEP 552 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.39 tb S. SEP faecalis SEP IID SEP 682 SEP t SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.39 tb Eschericbia SEP coli SEP NIHJ SEP JC 2 SEP SEP 0.025 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 tb E. SEP coli SEP ATCC SEP 10536 SEP SEP 0.02 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 tb E. SEP coli SEP Ml. SEP 4707 SEP SEP 0.02 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 tb Proteus SEP vulqaris SEP IFO SEP 3167 SEP SEP 0.025 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 tb P. SEP mirabilis SEP llD SEP 994 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 tb Morqanella SEP morganii SEP IID SEP 602 SEP SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.39 tb Enterobacter SEP cloacae SEP IID SEP 977 SEP SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 tb Citrobacter SEP freundii SEP IID SEP 976 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 tb Klebsiella SEP pneumoniae SEP KY GN 6645 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 tb K. SEP pneumoniae SEP 1 220S SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.20 tb Salmonella SEP entritidis SEP IID SEP 604 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP SEP 0.20 SEP 0.20 tb Shigella SEP sonnei SEP llD SEP 969 SEP SEP 0.025 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 tb Yersinia SEP enterocolitica SEP IID SEP 981 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 tb Serratia SEP marcescens SEP IID SEP 618 SEP SEP 0.20 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.39 tb S. SEP marcescens SEP GN SEP 7577 SEP SEP 0.7F SEP 1.56 SEP 0.78 SEP 3.13 SEP 6.25 tb Pseudomonas SEP aeruginosa SEP V 1 SEP SEP 0.35 SEP 0.78 SEP SEP 0.78 SEP 1.56 tb P. SEP aeruginosa SEP IFO SEP 12689 SEP SEP 0.35 SEP 1.56 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.78 SEP 3.13 tb P. SEP aeruginosa SEP IID SEP 1210 SEP SEP 0.78 SEP 3.13 SEP 0.78 SEP 3.13 SEP 3.13 tb Acinetobacter SEP anitratus SEP IID SEP 876 SEP SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.78 tb Alcaligenes SEP faecalis SEP 0104002 SEP SEP 0.39 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.78 SEP 1.56 SEP SEP 1.56 tb bacteriodes SEP fragilis SEP GM SEP 7000 SEP SEP 1,56 SEP SEP 6.25 SEP 25 tb B. SEP fragilis SEP 0558 SEP SEP 0.39 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.78 SEP 6.25 SEP 25 tb 8. SEP fragilis SEP 25285 SEP SEP 0.39 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.78 SEP 12.5 SEP 25 tb Fusobacterium SEP varium SEP KYA SEP 8501 SEP SEP 0.78 SEP 1.56 SEP 1.56 SEP 25 SEP 12.5 tb Clostridium SEP perfringens SEP KYA13123 SEP SEP 0.39 SEP 0.39 SEP SEP 3.13 SEP 0.20 tb C. SEP ramosum SEP SEP 0.78 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.78 SEP 12.5 SEP 6.25 tb C. SEP difficile SEP I E SEP t SEP 1.56 SEP 0.78 SEP SEP SEP 12.5 tb Table 1 2 In vitro antibacterial activity standard strain EMI35.1 tb SEP MIC pg ml tb SEP Organism SEP 106 SEP cells ml SEP Gram tb SEP Exp.8 SEP Exp.9 SEP Exp.10 SEP Exp.ll SEP Exp.12 tb Bacillus SEP subtilis SEP PCI SEP 219 SEP SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.0125 tb Staphylococcus SEP aureus SEP 209 SEP P SEP SEP 0.025 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.0125 tb S. SEP aureus SEP Smith SEP SEP 0.025 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.025 tb S. SEP aureus SEP IID SEP 670 SEP Terajima SEP SEP 0.025 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.025 tb S. SEP epidermidis SEP IID SEP 866 SEP SEP 0.025 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.025 tb Streptococcus SEP pyogenes SEP S 8 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.05 tb S. SEP pyogenes SEP IID SEP 692 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.05 tb S. SEP pneumoniae SEP llD SEP 552 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.05 tb S. SEP faecalis SEP IID SEP 682 SEP t SEP SEP 0.10 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.05 tb Escherichia SEP coli SEP Mill SEP JC 2 SEP SEP 0.025 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.025 tb E. SEP coli SEP ATCC SEP 10536 SEP SEP 0.025 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.025 tb E. SEP coli SEP ML SEP 4707 SEP SEP 0.025 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.025 tb Proteus SEP vulgarin SEP IFO SEP 3167 SEP SEP 0.025 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.025 tb P. SEP mirabilis SEP llD SEP 994 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.025 tb Morganella SEP mop SEP anti SEP lID SEP 602 SEP SEP 0.20 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.10 tb Enterobacter SEP cloacae SEP IID SEP 977 SEP SEP 0.10 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.05 tb Citrobacter SEP freundii SEP llD SEP 976 SEP SEP 0.025 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 tb Klebsiella SEP pneumoniae SEP KY GN 6445 SEP SEP 0.025 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 tb K. SEP pneumoniae SEP 1 220S SEP SEP 0.10 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.05 tb Salmonella SEP entritidis SEP llD SEP 604 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.05 tb Shigella SEP sonnei SEP IID SEP 969 SEP SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.05 SEP SEP 0.025 tb Yersinia SEP enterocolitica SEP IID SEP 981 SEP SEP 0.10 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.05 tb Sorratia SEP marcescens SEP IID SEP 618 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.10 tb S. SEP marcescens SEP GN SEP 7577 SEP SEP 1.56 SEP 6.25 SEP 3.13 SEP 3.13 SEP 0.78 tb Pseudomonas SEP aeruginosa SEP V 1 SEP SEP 0.78 SEP 1.56 SEP 1.56 SEP 1.56 SEP 0.39 tb P. SEP aeruginosa SEP IFO SEP 12689 SEP SEP 1.56 SEP 3.13 SEP 3.13 SEP 3.13 SEP 0.78 tb P. SEP aeruginosa SEP IID SEP 1210 SEP SEP 1.56 SEP 3.13 SEP 3.13 SEP 3.13 SEP 1.56 tb Acinetobacter SEP anitratus SEP llD SEP 876 SEP SEP 0.10 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 tb Alcaligenes SEP faecalis SEP 0104002 SEP SEP 0.39 SEP 1.56 SEP 0.78 SEP 1.56 SEP 0.39 tb Becteroides SEP fragilis SEP GM SEP 7000 SEP SEP 0.78 SEP 25 SEP 1.56 SEP 1.56 SEP 0.20 tb B. SEP fragilis SEP 0558 SEP SEP 0.39 SEP 12.5 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.10 tb B. SEP fragilis SEP 25285 SEP SEP 0.39 SEP 25 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.10 tb Fusobacterium SEP varium SEP KYA SEP 8501 SEP SEP 0.78 SEP 25 SEP 6.25 SEP 3.13 SEP 0.39 tb Clostridium SEP Perfringens SEP KYA SEP 13123 SEP SEP 0.39 SEP 1.56 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.10 tb C. SEP ramosum SEP t SEP 0.78 SEP 12.5 SEP 1.56 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.39 tb C. SEP difficile SEP I E SEP SEP 1.56 SEP 12.5 SEP 6.25 SEP 3.13 SEP SEP tb Table 1 3 In vitro antibacterial activity standard strain EMI36.1 tb SEP MIC SEP g ml tb SEP Organism SEP 106 SEP cells ml SEP Gram tb SEP Exp.13 SEP Exp.14 SEP Exp.15 SEP Exp.16 SEP Exp.17 tb Bacillus SEP subtilis SEP PCI SEP 219 SEP SEP 0.0125 SEP SEP û.0125 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.0125 SEP tb Staphylococcus SEP aureus SEP 209 SEP P SEP SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.0125 tb S. SEP aureus SEP Smith SEP t SEP SEP 0.025 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.0125 tb S. SEP aureus SEP llD SEP 670 SEP Terajima SEP t SEP 0.025 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.025 tb s.epidermin SEP llp886 SEP SEP 0.125 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0,0125 SEP 0,025 tb Streptococcus SEP pygenes SEP S 8 SEP SEP 0.5 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 tb S. SEP pyoqenes SEP IID SEP 692 SEP t SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 tb S. SEP pneumoniae SEP IID SEP 552 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 tb S. SEP faecalis SEP llD SEP 682 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 tb Escherichie SEP col2 SEP NIBJ SEP JC 2 SEP SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.012560.0063 SEP 0.0125 SEP 00125 tb E. SEP coli SEP ATCC SEP 10536 SEP SEP 0.025 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.025 tb E. SEP coli SEP ML SEP 4707 SEP SEP 0.025 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.025 tb Proteus SEP vulgeris SEP IFO SEP 3167 SEP SEP 0.025 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.025 tb P. SEP mirabilis SEP IID SEP 994 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.025 tb Morganella SEP organic SEP IID SEP 602 SEP SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 tb Enterobacter SEP cloacae SEP IID SEP 977 SEP SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 tb Citrobacter SEP freundii SEP IID SEP 976 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.105 SEP 0.05 tb Klebsiella SEP pneumoniae SEP KY GN 6445 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 tb K SEP , SEP neumoniee SEP 3 2208 SEP SEP 0.18 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 tb Salmonella SEP entritidis SEP IID SEP 604 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 tb Shiella SEP sonnei SEP IID SEP 969 SEP SEP 0.025 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.025 tb Yersinia SEP enterocolitics SEP llD SEP 981 SEP SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 tb Serratia SEP marcescens SEP llD SEP 618 SEP SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 tb S. SEP marcescens SEP GN SEP 7577 SEP SEP 0.78 SEP 0.39 SEP 1 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.78 tb Pseudomoncs SEP seruginosa SEP V 1 SEP SEP o.78 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.10 SEP 1.20 SEP 0.35 tb P. SEP aerugínosa SEP IFO SEP 12689 SEP SEP 1.56 SEP 0.39 SEP SEP 0.78 SEP 1.56 SEP 3.13 tb P. SEP aeruginosa SEP IID SEP 1210 SEP SEP 1.56 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.78 SEP 1.56 SEP 1.56 tb Acinetobacter SEP anitratus SEP lld SEP 876 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 tb Alcaligenes SEP faecalin SEP 0104002 SEP SEP 0.39 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.39 tb Bacteroides SEP fragilis SEP GM SEP 7000 SEP SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.10 tb B. SEP fragilis SEP 0558 SEP SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 SEP 10.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 tb B. SEP fragilis SEP 25285 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 10.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 tb Fusobacterium SEP varium SEP KYA SEP 8501 SEP SEP SEP 0.39 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.39 tb Clostridium SEP perfringens SEP KYA SEP 13123 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 tb C. SEP ramosum SEP t SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.39 tb C. SEP difficile SEP I E SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP tb Table 1 4 In vitro antibacterial activity standart strain EMI37.1 tb SEP MIC SEP g ml tb SEP Organism SEP 106 SEP cells ml SEP Gram tb SEP Exp.20 SEP Exp.21 SEP Ref.l SEP CFLX SEP NFLX tb Bacillus SEP subtilis SEP PCI SEP 219 SEP SEP 0.025 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 tb Staphylococcus SEP aureus SEP 209 SEP P SEP SEP 0.025 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.78 tb S. SEP aureus SEP Smith SEP t SEP SEP 0.025 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.39 SEP 1.56 tb S. SEP aureus SEP lID SEP 670 SEP Tetrajima SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.78 tb S SEP Epdermidin SEP llD SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 tb Streptococcus SEP pyogenes SEP S 8 SEP t SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.78 SEP 1.56 tb S SEP pyogenes SEP llD SEP 692 SEP SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.78 SEP 3.13 tb S. SEP opeu omnse SEP llD SEP 552 SEP t SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.78 SEP 3.13 tb S. SEP faecalis SEP IID SEP 682 SEP SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.78 SEP 1.56 tb Escherichis SEP coli SEP NIHJ SEP JC 2 SEP SEP 0.025 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.025 tb E. SEP coli SEP ATCC SEP 10536 SEP SEP 0.025 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.05 tb E. SEP coli SEP ML SEP 4707 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.05 tb Proteus SEP vulqaris SEP IFO SEP 3167 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.025 tb P. SEP mirabilin SEP IID SEP 994 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.05 tb Morganella SEP mop SEP anti SEP llD SEP 602 SEP SEP 0.20 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 tb Enterobacter SEP cloacas SEP IID SEP 977 SEP SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 tb Citrobacter SEP freundii SEP IID SEP 976 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.05 tb Klebssielle SEP pneumonim SEP KY GN 6645 SEP SEP 0,05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.05 tb K. SEP pneuoniae SEP 1 2205 SEP SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 tb Salmonella SEP entritidis SEP IID SEP 604 SEP SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 tb Shigelle SEP sonnei SEP IID SEP 969 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.05 tb Yersinia SEP enterocolitica SEP IID SEP 981 SEP SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 tb Serratia SEP marcescens SEP IID SEP 618 SEP SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 tb S. SEP macar cens SEP GN SEP 7577 SEP SEP 1.56 SEP 1.56 SEP 6.25 SEP 0.78 SEP 1.56 tb Pseudosotias SEP aeruginosa SEP V 1 SEP SEP 0.39 SEP 0.39 SEP 6.25 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.78 tb P. SEP aeru inosa SEP IFO SEP 12689 SEP SEP 3.13 SEP 3.13 SEP 6.25 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.78 tb P. SEP serugina SEP IID SEP 1210 SEP SEP 1.56 SEP 3.13 SEP 12.5 SEP 1.56 SEP 3.13 tb Acinetobacter SEP anitratus SEP lID SEP 876 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.39 SEP 3.13 tb Alcaligenes SEP faecalia SEP 0104002 SEP SEP 0.39 SEP 0.78 SEP 12.5 SEP 0.39 SEP 3.13 tb Bacteroides SEP fragilis SEP GM SEP 7000 SEP SEP 0.10 SEP 0.39 SEP 12.5 SEP 3.13 SEP 25 tb B, SEP fragilis SEP 0558 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0,25 SEP 3.23 SEP 25 tb B. SEP fra SEP ilis SEP 25285 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 6.25 SEP 3.13 SEP 25 tb Fusobacterium SEP varium SEP KYA8501 SEP SEP 0.78 SEP 3.13 SEP 6.25 SEP 17.5 SEP 100 tb Clostridium SEP perfringens SEP KYA SEP 13123 SEP SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 1.56 SEP 0.39 SEP 1.56 tb C. SEP ramosum SEP SEP 0.39 SEP 0.78 SEP 6.25 SEP 3.13 SEP 50 tb c.difficile SEP I E SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 12.5 SEP 50 tb Ref.1 1 Ethyl 7 3 ethylaminoethyl 1 pyrrlidinyl 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acidCFI.X CiprofloxacinNFLX Norfioxacin Table 2 1 In vitro antibacterial activity 1 clinical isolates EMI38.1 Organism SEP Mic g ml tb 106 SEP cells ml SEP Gram SEP Exp.1 SEP Exp.2 SEP Exp.4 SEP Exp.b SEP Exp.7 SEP Exp.8 SEP Exp.9 SEP Exp.10 SEP Exp.11 SEP Exp.12 SEP Exp.13 SEP Exp.14 SEP Exp.15 SEP Exp.16 tb S.pneumoniae SEP 15 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 tb S.pneumoniae SEP 24 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP SEP SEP 0.05 SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP SEP S.pneumoniae SEP 28 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP SEP SEP 0.05 SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP SEP S.pneumoniae SEP 2054 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 tb S.pneumoniae SEP 2950 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 tb S.pneumoniae SEP 3227 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 tb S.pyogenes SEP 3130 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 tb S.pyogenes SEP 3102 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 tb S.pyogenes SEP 3107 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 tb S.pyogenes SEP 4340 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 tb S.pyogenes SEP 4372 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 tb S.agalactiae SEP 4394 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.10 tb S.agalactiae SEP 4049 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 tb S.agalactiae SEP 4342 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 tb S.agalactiae SEP 4470 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP SEP 0.39 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 tb S.agalactiae SEP 4368 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 tb S.agalactiae SEP 4468 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 tb S.fecalis SEP 49 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.10 tb S.fecalis SEP 214 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.10 tb S.fecalis SEP 401 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.10 tb S.fecalis SEP 402 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.10 tb Table 2 2 In vitro antibacterial activity 2 clinical isolates EMI39.1 tb SEP Organism SEP MIC g ml tb SEP 106 SEP cells ml SEP Gram SEP Exp.17 SEP Exp.20 SEP Exp.21 SEP Ref.1 SEP CFLX SEP NFLX tb S. SEP pneumoniae SEP 15 SEP O.05 SEP O.05 SEP SEP O.20 SEP SEP O.20 SEP SEP O.78 SEP SEP 3.13 tb S. SEP pneumoniae SEP 24 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 1.56 SEP 12.5 tb S. SEP pneumoniae SEP 28 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.78 SEP 6.25 SEP tb S. SEP pneumoniae SEP 2054 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP 1.56 SEP 6.25 tb S. SEP pneumoniae SEP 2950 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.39 SEP 1.56 SEP 12.5 tb S. SEP pneumoniae SEP 3227 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP 1.56 SEP 12.5 tb S. SEP pyogenes SEP 3130 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP 1.56 tb S. SEP pyogenes SEP 3102 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP 1.56 tb S. SEP pyogenes SEP 3107 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.39 SEP 1.56 tb S.pyogenes SEP 4340 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.78 SEP 1.56 tb S.pyogenes SEP 4372 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.78 SEP 1.56 tb S.agalactiae SEP 4394 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.78 SEP 3.13 SEP 6.25 tb S.agalactiae SEP 4049 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.15 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.78 SEP 6.25 tb S.agalactiae SEP 4342 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.78 SEP 6.25 tb S. SEP agalactiae SEP 4470 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.78 SEP 6.25 tb S. SEP agalactiae SEP 4368 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.78 SEP 3.13 tb S. SEP agalactiae SEP 4468 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.120 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.78 SEP 3.13 tb S. SEP faecalis SEP 49 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP 1.56 SEP 3.13 tb S. SEP faecalis SEP 214 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP 1.56 SEP 3.13 tb S. SEP faecalis SEP 401 SEP SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP 1.56 SEP 6.25 tb S. SEP faecalis SEP 402 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.78 SEP 1.56 SEP 6.25 tb Experiment 2 In vivo antibacterial activity against systemic infection in mice ICR S The infections were produced by intraperitoneal injection of a suspension of the bacterial culture corresponding to the germ studied. The products were administered orally at an hour after the infection.The 50 effective dose ED50 which protects 50 of the animals from death caused by the infection was determined from the relation between dosage and survival rate. The efficacy of the compound of this invention was shown inTable 3 together with that of the known compound. The present compounds were the most effective against grampositive bacterial infections and, amongest these, those ofExample 2, 13, 17 and 21 had also greater activity against gramnegative bacterial infections than the reference compounds.Table 3 1 In vivo antibacterial activity against systemic infection in mice ICR S EMI40.1 tb SEP MIC SEP ED50 SEP mg kg SEP against SEP S.aureus SEP Smith tb Compound SEP Ug ml SEP Challenge SEP dose SEP cfu mouse tb SEP 7 SEP x SEP i05 SEP 5.5 SEP x SEP i05 SEP tb Example SEP 1 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.9 tb Example SEP 2 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.97 tb Example SEP 4 SEP 0.05 SEP 1.57 tb SEP CFLX SEP i SEP 0.20 SEP 12.3 SEP 25.5 tb n 5 Table 3 2 In vivo antibacterial activity against systemic infection in mice ICR S ED50 mg kg EMI41.1 tb Compound SEP S. SEP aureus SEP S. SEP pneumoniae SEP E. SEP coli tb SEP Smitha SEP S 4288b SEP ML4707c tb Example SEP 2 SEP 0.9 SEP 4.6 SEP 0.8 tb SEP 4 SEP 1.8 SEP 13.8 SEP 3.0 tb SEP 8 SEP 1.1 SEP 16.1 SEP 1.9 tb SEP 12 SEP 0.5 SEP 6.5 SEP 1.9 tb SEP 13 SEP 0.6 SEP 2.0 SEP 0.7 tb SEP 14 SEP SEP 10.0 SEP 5.4 tb SEP 15 SEP SEP SEP 7.1 tb SEP 16 SEP SEP SEP 1.9 tb SEP 17 SEP SEP SEP 0.9 tb SEP 20 SEP SEP SEP 2.1 tb SEP 21 SEP SEP SEP 1.2 tb SEP Ref.1 SEP 5.0 SEP 62.2 SEP 10 tb SEP CF SEP 25 SEP 100 SEP 1.8 tb a Challenge dose s 6.0 x 105 cfu mouse b Challenge dose s 7.5 x 104 4.8 x 106 cfu mouse c Challenge dose 2.7 x 106 8.8 x 106 cfu mouseExperiment 3 In vitro antibacterial activity against Mycoplasma The antimicrobial activity of the present compounds has been investigated in vitro on M. pneumoniae Mac. Table 4 gives the minimum inhibitory concentrations MIC of the present compounds together with those of the reference compounds. The present compounds were the most active. Table 4 In vitro antibacterial activity against Mycoplasma M. pneumoniae Mac. EMI42.1 tb Compound SEP MIC SEP SEP pg ml SEP SEP tb Example SEP 2 SEP 0.05 SEP tb SEP 4 SEP 0.025 tb SEP 8 SEP 0.05 tb SEP 12 SEP 0.05 tb SEP 13 SEP 0.05 tb SEP Ref.l SEP 0.39 tb SEP CFLX SEP 0.78 tb SEP NFLX SEP 3.13 tb SEP TC SEP 0.78 tb TC Tetracycline The MIC was defined as the concentration of agent at which there was no visible growth after incubation for 5 days.Experiment 4 Absorption, distribution and excretion The blood, organs, bile and urine of the fasted rats, which had received the dose of 10 mg kg of the test compound by oral administration, were sampled over a period of time and the pro portion of active compound was determined bacteriologically by the cup method using E. coli NIHJ JC 2. The results were shown in Table 5 and 6. All those results make it possible to guarantee a greater therapeutic action of the present compound than that of the reference compound because of higher concentration of active compound in comparition with the reference compound. Table 5 Concentration in organs g ml or g EMI44.1 SEP Time SEP after SEP administration SEP hr tb Organ SEP Compound tb SEP 1 2 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 6 SEP 8 tb Serum SEP Example SEP 2 SEP 1.47 SEP SEP 0.19 SEP 1.30 SEP SEP 0.20 SEP 0.90 SEP SEP 0.19 SEP 0.42 SEP SEP 0.15 SEP 0.26 SEP SEP 0.09 SEP 0.12 SEP SEP 0.04 tb SEP 13 SEP 1.72 SEP SEP 0.37 SEP 1.12 SEP SEP 0.30 SEP 0.57 SEP SEP 0.08 SEP 0.23 SEP SEP 0.04 SEP 0.10 SEP SEP 0.01 SEP 0.14 SEP SEP 0.08 tb SEP CFLX SEP 0.47 SEP SEP 0.28 SEP 1.38 SEP SEP 0.11 SEP 0.25 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.09 SEP SEP 0.03 SEP 0.05 SEP SEP 0.01 SEP 0.03 SEP SEP 0.01 tb Lung SEP Example SEP 2 SEP 3.84 SEP 0.42 SEP 2.94 SEP SEP 0.22 SEP 1.92 SEP SEP 0.33 SEP 1.12 SEP SEP 0.31 SEP 0.78 SEP SEP 0.19 SEP 0.38 SEP SEP 0.08 tb SEP 13 SEP 3.17 SEP SEP 0.71 SEP 2.66 SEP SEP 0.42 SEP 1.54 SEP SEP 0.21 SEP 0.70 SEP SEP 0.08 SEP 0.42 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.45 SEP SEP 0.15 tb SEP CFLX SEP 0.86 SEP SEP 0.58 SEP 0.60 SEP SEP 0.19 SEP 0.29 SEP SEP 0.02 SEP 0.14 SEP SEP 0.02 SEP 0.07 SEP SEP 0.03 SEP 0.06 SEP SEP 0.01 tb Liver SEP Example SEP 2 SEP 9.48 SEP SEP 0.44 SEP 6.24 SEP SEP 0.53 SEP 4.32 SEP SEP 0.43 SEP 2.36 SEP SEP 0.48 SEP 1.62 SEP SEP 0.29 SEP 0.82 SEP SEP 0.19 tb SEP 13 SEP 1.79 SEP SEP 0.91 SEP 5.71 SEP SEP 0.63 SEP 3.14 SEP SEP 0.36 SEP 1.34 SEP SEP 0.12 SEP 0.86 SEP SEP 0.15 SEP 1.13 SEP SEP 0.52 tb SEP CFLX SEP 5.17 SEP SEP 2.59 SEP 3.28 SEP SEP 0.98 SEP 1.49 SEP SEP 0.37 SEP 0.39 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.21 SEP SEP 0.11 SEP 0.15 SEP SEP 0.05 tb Kidney SEP Example SEP 2 SEP 8.50 SEP SEP 0.31 SEP 6.72 SEP SEP 0.54 SEP 4.66 SEP SEP 0.30 SEP 2.62 SEP SEP 0.59 SEP 1.86 SEP SEP 0.11 SEP 0.98 SEP SEP 0.22 tb SEP 13 SEP 5.63 SEP SEP 0.64 SEP 4.70 SEP SEP 0.60 SEP 2.81 SEP SEP 0.25 SEP 1.47 SEP SEP 0.25 SEP 0.84 SEP SEP 0.09 SEP 0.89 SEP SEP 0.40 tb SEP CFLX SEP 3.58 SEP SEP 2.61 SEP 2.05 SEP SEP 0.64 SEP 1.12 SEP SEP 0.34 SEP 0.21 SEP SEP 0.12 SEP 0.10 SEP SEP 0.04 SEP 0.06 SEP SEP 0.02 tb Mean S.d. n 5 Table 6 Urinary and bile excretion EMI45.1 SEP cocentration g ml tb Sample SEP compound tb SEP 0 3 SEP 3 6 SEP 6 24 SEP hr SEP 0 3 SEP 0 6 SEP 0 24 SEP hr tb Urine SEP Example SEP 2 SEP 44.2 SEP SEP 27.9 SEP 114.8 SEP SEP 61.0 SEP 22.1 SEP SEP 9.8 SEP 3.5 SEP SEP 2.0 SEP 6.7 SEP SEP 4.3 SEP 13.5 SEP SEP 4.6 tb SEP 13 SEP 36.1 SEP SEP 9.2 SEP 39.4 SEP SEP 13.3 SEP 7.6 SEP SEP 3.6 SEP 2.7 SEP SEP 2.1 SEP 4.8 SEP SEP 1.8 SEP 7.4 SEP SEP 1.5 tb SEP CFLX SEP 101 SEP SEP 36.9 SEP 57. SEP SEP 19. SEP 12. SEP SEP 6 SEP 3.9 SEP SEP 2.9 SEP 6.6 SEP SEP 2.2 SEP 8.9 SEP SEP 1 .8 tb Blile SEP Example SEP 2 SEP 17.1 SEP SEP 10.0 SEP 16.1 SEP SEP 6.2 SEP 10.1 SEP SEP 2.3 SEP 2.4 SEP SEP 1.6 SEP 4.3 SEP SEP 2.1 SEP 9.7 SEP SEP 3.1 tb SEP 13 SEP 36.4 SEP SEP 9.9 SEP 19.7 SEP SEP 8.0 SEP 11.3 SEP SEP 8.3 SEP 4.9 SEP SEP 1.5 SEP 6.9 SEP SEP 1.4 SEP 12.9 SEP SEP 4.9 tb SEP CFLX SEP 2 SEP 11.1 SEP SEP 4.4 SEP 5.9 SEP SEP 2.6 SEP 1.5 SEP SEP 0.6 SEP 1.3 SEP SEP 0.7 SEP 1.9 SEP SEP 0.5 SEP 2.5 SEP SEP 0.8 tb Mean S.D. n 5l