# CROSS POLARIZATION INTERFERENCE CANCELLER

## Claims
Kreuzpolarisationsinterferenz Löscheinrichtung zur Verwendung in einem digitalen Funkverbindungsempfänger mit

## Description
This invention relates to a cross polarization interference canceller for use in a digital radio communications receiver which is supplied with dual, independent input signals. The crowding of the frequency spectrum in a radio communications system has led to an extremely limited availability of transmission channels. A known approach to solving this problem is the use of the two orthogonally polarized waves for doubling the capacity of the radio communications system. Under normal circumstances cross polarization effects, i.e. the effects of interference between such orthogonally polarized signals, are sufficiently low to result in overall good performance. However, when poor propagation conditions exist, such as during heavy rain, or when the signals travel through a multipath communication medium, the cross polarization interference effects tend to increase and the two signals are not easily isolated merely on the basis of polarization. In order to reduce or cancel the cross polarization interference, various cancellers have been proposed. See for example document PROCEEDINGS OF THE IEEE INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON COMMUNICATIONS, LINKS FOR THE FUTURE, Science, System Services for Communications, Amsterdam, 14 A known approach to solving these difficulties is that when poor signal reception is detected, the cross polarization interference canceller is reset using a carrier wave async signal obtained from a demodulator s . Before discussing the present invention in detail, reference will be made to Figs. 1 and 2. Fig. 1 is a block diagram showing a known resettable canceller together with associated circuitry, which generally comprises dual, independent input terminals 10 and 12 for respectively receiving horizontally and vertically polarized IF Intermediate Frequency signals IFh and IFv, two resetable variable couplers 14 and 16, two subtracters 18 and 20, two demodulators 22 and 24, two control signal generators 26 and 28, an OR gate 30, two output terminals 33 and 35, all of which are coupled as shown. Each variable coupler 14 or 16 is of a transversal filter type as shown in Fig. 2. The control signal generator 26 includes a correlator 32 and an integrator 34, while the other control signal generator 28 similarly includes a correlator 36 and an integrator 38. The independent signals IFh and IFv are respectively applied to the input terminals 10, 12 from separate receiving sections not shown . It should be noted that the canceller generally includes the two symmetrical sections arranged for removing contaminating components from the two incoming IF signals, and hence only one symmetrical section will be referred in detail throughout this specification. As shown in Fig. 1, the signal IFh is fed to the variable coupler 14 and also to the subtracter 18. The subtracter 18 subtracts the output of the variable coupler 16 from the signal IFh in order to reduce or cancel the components of the other signal IFv deteriorating IFh. Following this the subtracter 18 applies the output thereof to the demodulator 22, which produces a digital data signal D1, an error signal E1, a carrier wave async signal AS1, and a clock signal CK1 reproduced from the recieved IF signal. Similarly, the demodulator 24 produces a digital data signal D2, an error signal E2, a carrier wave async signal AS2, and a clock signal CK2. The error and data signals E1, D2 are correlated, using the clock signal CK1, at the correlator 32 which applies a correction signal 40 to the integrator 34. The integrator 34 outputs a control signal 42 which is used to control the variable coupler 16. In a similar manner, the error and data signals E2, D1 are correlated, using the clock signal CK2, at the correlator 36 which applies a correction signal 44 to the integrator 38. The integrator 38 produces a control signal 46 by which the variable coupler 14 is controlled. Fig. 2 is a block diagram showing a known transversal filter used as the variable coupler 14 or 16 . The transversal filter is a three tap type for purposes of simplicity. It should be noted that the same device can be utilized in each of the preferred embodiments of this invention. The Fig. 2 block diagram, which is assumed to be the variable coupler 14 in this instance, comprises an input terminal 50 to which the incoming signal IFh Fig. 1 is applied, two delay circuits 52 and 54, six tap weighting circuits 56a through 56f, two summing circuits 58 and 60, a 90 Turning back to Fig. 1, in the event that the incoming signal IFh lowers in level due to fading for example to an extent that the corresponding demodulator 22 is unable to reproduce a carrier wave, then the demodulator 22 outputs the carrier wave async signal AS1 which is applied, via the OR gate 30, to the controller 64 Fig. 2 . The controller 64 is responsive to the signal AS1 resetting the tap weighting circuits 56a 56f by allowing each circuit to produce its output with a minimum value. It is clear that when one of the async signals AS1 and AS2 is outputted, both of the variable couplers 14 and 16 are reset. The above mentioned prior art, however, has encountered a drawback in that if a the incoming signal IFh is lowered and b a cross polarization interference is sufficiently high to an extent that the level of the signal IFh is below that of the cross interfering signal IFv at the input of the demodulator 22, then the demodulator 22 demodulates the signal IFv instead of IFh. Consequently, the demodulator 22 does not output the async signal AS1 in that it normally operates as a demodulator itself. This means that the variable couplers 14 and 16 can not be reset, which leads to the situation wherein the canceller of the Fig. 1 arrangement does not function. Further, the Fig. 1 prior art has encountered a further problem in that when the transmission path is restored to its normal condition, it does not provide a fast convergence process for cancelling the interference. Reference has been made concentrating on the case where the signal IFh is lowered and cross interfered by IFv, but same discussion is applicable to the reverse case, i.e., the signal IFv is lowered due to fading and cross polarized by IFh. Another prior art, disclosed in Japanese laid open patent application or Patent Application First Provisional Publication No 59 77734, has proposed a method of cancelling the cross polarization interference. In accordance with this method, if the demodulator provided for an interfering transmission path is unable to reproduce the carrier wave, the canceller is reset in response to the carrier wave async signal obtained from the demodulator in question. This prior art further discloses another method, in which the data reproduced at the demodulator of the interfering transmission path is checked in connection with a bit error rate. If the bit error rate exceeds a predetermined value, the canceller is reset. This prior art, however, has encountered difficulties. First, in the case where the canceller is reset in response to the carrier wave async signal, the normally operated demodulator of the interferred transmission path tends to be forced into the carrier wave async state due to the cross interference before resetting the canceller. On the other hand, where the bit error rate is employed, the canceller is reset and maintained at this state irrespective of the fact that the interfering side demodulator is still able to operate normally. It is therefore a primary object of this invention to provide a cross polarization interference canceller free from the difficulties inherent in the above mentioned prior art. The another object of this invention is to provide a cross polarization interference canceller which is provided with two polarized signal discriminators each of which is coupled to the corresponding demodulator in order to overcome the difficulty discussed with reference to Fig. 1. Still another object of this invention is to provide a cross polarization interference canceller which enables the demodulator of cross interfered transmission path to be normally operated until the canceller is reset, and which prolongs the canceller reset as long as the cross interfering transmission path side demodulator operates normally. Still another object of this invention is to provide a cross polarization interference canceller which includes a high speed flip flop for improving the cancellation operation. A first aspect of this invention takes the form of a cross polarization interference canceller for use in a digital radio communications receiver, comprising first and second variable couplers for receiving respectively first and second IF signals which are orthogonally polarized with respect to each other a first subtracter to which the first IF signal and the output of the second variable coupler are applied a second subtracter to which the second IF signal and the output of the first variable coupler are applied a first demodulator demodulating the output of the first subtracter, and producing first error and data signals a second demodulator demodulating the output of the second subtracter, and producing second error and data signals a first control signal generator receiving the first error signal and the second data signal to correlate same, and controlling the second variable coupler a second control signal generator receiving the second error signal and the first data signal to correlate same, and controlling the first variable coupler a first polarized signal discriminator for determining if the first demodulator demodulates the first data signal, and for resetting at least the first variable coupler in the event that the first polarized signal discriminator fails to determine that the first demodulator demodulates the first data signal and a second polarized signal discriminator for determining if the second demodulator demodulates the second data signal, and for resetting at least the second variable coupler in the event that the second polarized signal discriminator fails to determine that the second demodulator demodulates the second data signal. A second aspect of this invention takes the form of a cross polarization interference canceller for use in a digital radio communications receiver, comprising first and second variable couplers for receiving respectively first and second IF signals which are orthogonally polarized with each other a first subtracter to which the first IF signal and the output of the second variable coupler are applied a second subtracter to which the second IF signal and the output of the first variable coupler are applied a first demodulator demodulating the output of the first subtracter, and producing first error and data signals a second demodulator demodulating the output of the second subtracter, and producing second error and data signals a first control signal generator receiving the first error signal and the second data signal to correlate same, and controlling the second variable coupler a second control signal generator receiving the second error signal and the first data signal to correlate same, and controlling the first variable coupler a first bit error rate detector coupled to the output of the first demodulator, and receiving the first data signal to detect a bit error rate thereof a first reset signal generator which receives the output of the first bit error rate detector and which also receives two carrier wave async signals respectively applied from the first and second demodulators, the first reset signal generator applying a first reset signal to the second control signal generator which controls the first variable coupler in response to the first reset signal a second bit error rate detector coupled to the output of the second demodulator, and receiving the second data signal to detect a bit error rate thereof and a second reset signal generator which receives the output of the second bit error rate detector and which also receives the two carrier wave async signals, the second reset signal generator applying a second reset signal to the first control signal generator which controls the second variable coupler in response to the second reset signal. The features and advantages of the present invention will become more clearly appreciated from the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which like blocks, circuits or circuit elements are denoted by like reference numerals and in which Reference is now made to Fig. 3 wherein the first embodiment of this invention is illustrated. The cross polarization interference canceller shown in Fig. 3 is identical to that of Fig. 1 except that the former arrangement further includes two polarized signal discriminators 70 and 72 which are arranged between the corresponding demodulators and the OR gate 30. Each of the discriminators 70 and 72 has an identical circuit configuration. More specifically, the discriminator 70 has its input and output terminals respectively coupled to the output of demodulator 22 and to the input of the OR gate 30. Similarly, the other discriminator 72 has its input and output terminals respectively coupled to the output of demodulator 24 and to the input of the OR gate 30. The polarized signal discriminator 70 is supplied with the digital data signal D1, and discriminates whether the received signal D1 is in fact the demodulated signal of the incoming IFh. In the event that the received signal D1 is the demodulated signal of IFv instead of IFh, the discriminator 70 produces a reset signal 71 which is applied, via the OR gate 30, to the variable couplers 14 and 16. Similarly, the other discriminator 72 produces a reset signal 73 if the demodulator 24 demodulates the incoming signal IFh instead of IFv. Discriminating the received data signals D1 or D2 , is implemented, by way of example, such that the frame sync signals reproduced at the demodulator 22 and 24 are rendered different. It should be noted that the variable couplers 14 and 16 can concurrently be reset when one of the the demodulators 22, 24 is unable to reproduce the carrier wave. The other portions of the Fig. 3 block diagram have been described with reference to Fig. 1 so that they will not be referred to for simplicity. It is understood that a feature of the first embodiment shown in Fig. 3 is that it can be reset if a one incoming IF signal is lowered in level and b the cross polarization interference is high to an extent that the level of the one incoming IF signal is lowered considerably relative to that of the other incoming IF signal at the input of the demodulator provided for the first mentioned incoming IF signal. The first embodiment shown in Fig. 3 can be modified such that the discriminators 70 and 72 independently reset the variable couplers 14 and 16 respectively. In this case the OR gate 30 is omitted. Fig. 4 show a second embodiment of this invention. This second embodiment is identical to that of Fig. 3 except that the former arrangement lacks the polarized signal discriminators 70 and 72, and, instead thereof, is provided with two bit error rate detectors 50, 54 and two reset signal generators 52, 56, as shown. The bit error rate detector 50 receives the data signal D1 from the demodulator 22, and allows its output 62 to assume a logic 1 if the bit error rate exceeds a predetermined value. Otherwise the signal 62 assumes a logic 0 . The signal 62 is applied to the reset signal generator 52 to which the carrier wave async signals AS1 and AS2 are also applied. Each of the signals AS1 and AS2 assumes a logic 1 when the corresponding demodulator 22 or 24 is unable to reproduce the carrier wave, and assumes a logic 0 while the corresponding demodulator operates normally. On the other hand, in order to reset the variable couplers 16 and 14, each of the reset signals RS1 and RS2 changes its logic value from 1 to 0 , respectively. The operation of the Fig. 4 arrangement will be discussed with reference to Figs. 5, 6 and 7. Fig. 5 is a block diagram showing in detail the reset signal generator 52 or 54 , while Figs. 6 and 7 are timing charts of the signals applied to and derived from the generator 52. As shown in Fig. 5, the reset signal generator 52 comprises a monostable multivibrator 64 to which the signal 62 is applied, an AND gate 66, an OR gate 68 and a NOR gate 80, all of which are coupled as shown. The AND gate 66 receives an inverted signal at one input terminal thereof, while receiving the signal AS1 from the demodulator 22 at the other input terminal. The NOR gate 80 receives the output signal 69 of the OR gate 68 and the signal AS2 and applies the signal RS1 to the integrator 38. Assuming that the carrier wave async signal AS2 is maintained at a logic 0 Fig. 6 a , which means the demodulator 24 operates normally. When the incoming signal IFh begins to fall in level due to fading for example , the bit error rate becomes high. If the bit error rate increases up to a predetermined value, the signal 62 is allowed to assume a logic 1 Fig. 6 b at time point T1 before the signal AS1 turns to a logic 1 . In response to the change from 0 to 1 of the signal 62, the one shot multivibrator 64 outputs a logic 1 for a predetermined time duration L1 Fig. 6 c , resulting in the fact that the reset signal RS1 changes from a logic 1 to 0 and remains thereat at least for the time interval L1 Fig. 6 g . The integrator 38 is responsive to the reset signal RS1 outputting the control signal 46 which terminates the variable coupler 14 to produce its output. The time duration L1 is previously determined to be longer than a time interval L2 shown in Fig. 6 d . The time interval L2 is defined from T1 to a time point when the signal AS1 assumes a logic 1 T2 . As a consequence, if the signal AS1 assumes a logic 1 at time point T3, the reset signal RS1 is maintained at a logic 0 Fig. 6 g in that at this time point the output signal 65 of the monostable multivibrator 64 assumes a logic 0 . Figs. 6 e and 6 f shows timing charts of the signals 67 and 69, respectively. If the variable detector 14 is reset after the demodulator 22 becomes unable to reproduce the carrier wave as mentioned with reference to the prior art, then there is an undesirable possibility that the normally operated demodulator 24 is rendered incapable of reproducing the carrier wave. This is because the data signal D1 contains no received information, so that the variable coupler 14 no longer produces an output for cancelling the cross interference and moreover tends to increase the interference effects. Whilst, according to this invention, when the demodulator 22 is unable to reproduce the carrier wave at time point T3, the variable coupler 14 has already been reset at time point T1 by detecting the bit error rate exceeding the predetermined value. Thus, the difficulty inherent in the prior art can be removed. On the other hand, under the circumstance that the demodulator 22 continues to properly reproduce the carrier wave to allow the signal AS1 to assume a logic 0 as shown in Fig. 6 h , if the signal 65 assumes a logic 1 Fig. 6 c , then variable coupler 14 is reset. However, the variable coupler 14 restores its normal operation after the predetermined time duration L1. This means that the canceller does not continue to be reset. This advantage is not obtained from the prior art as mentioned previously. Fig. 7 shows timing charts which depict another operation of the second embodiment Figs. 4 and 5 when the incoming signal IFh recovers its normal level. Also in this case it is assumed that the signal AS2 remains a logic 0 Fig. 7 a . When the level of the incoming signal IFh increases up to a normal level due to the extinction of fading, the demodulator 22 begins to reproduce the carrier wave and hence the logic level of the signal AS1 changes from 1 to 0 at time point t1. Thereafter, the logic level of the signal 62 changes from 1 to 0 at time point t2. Since the signal 65 remains at a logic 0 Fig. 7 d , the reset signal RS1 changes from a logic 0 to 1 at time point t1 and hence the reset condition is released. Consequently, upon the demodulator 22 restoring normal operation, the canceller begins to function without waiting for the bit error rate to lower. It follows that the arrangement shown in Fig. 4 is able to provide fast convergence. On the contrary, when the demodulator 24 is brought into a carrier wave async state while the demodulator 22 operates normally, the signal AS2 changes from a logic 0 to 1 . Consequently, the reset signal RS1 assumes a logic 0 and hence resets the variable coupler 14. Thus, the variable coupler 14 ceases to apply its output to the subtracter 20. Resetting the variable coupler 14 under the above circumstances, features fast recovery of the demodulator 24. This is because the output of the variable coupler 14 is unstable until the demodulator 24 restores its normal operation and hence causes a delay of the restoration of the demodulator 24. It will be appreciated that the NOR gate 80 can be readily replaced with an OR gate if so desired. However, under such circumstances the control signal generators 26, 28 need be adapted to be responsive to a signal of opposite polarity. Reference is made to Fig. 8, in which a third embodiment of this invention is shown in block diagram form. This embodiment is directed to improve the characteristics of the canceller by adding a high speed flip flop. This high speed flip flop is provided for extracting the error or data signals before correlating them. The arrangement of Fig. 8 includes, for purposes of simplicity, only a portion for cancelling the components of the incoming signal IFv which cross interfers the other signal IFh, and is identical to that of the Fig. 3 arrangment except that a high speed type flip flop 100 is added between the correlator 32 and the demodulator 24. It is known that the correlator 32 includes a flip flop not shown for use in extracting error and data signals to correlate them. Howevever, only low speed type flip flops have been employed in the prior art, resulting in the difficulty mentioned below. The incoming signals IFh and IFv are independently transmitted through differing path lengths. Therefore, the data transient points of the bit stream reproduced from the signal IFh, are usually different in time from those of the bit stream reproduced from the other signal IFv. Consequently, there is an uncertain time period during which the flip flop can not extract the error and data signals E1, D2 at the same time. It follows that if the flip flop provided in the correlator 32 is a slow speed type, then the uncertain time period becomes large. The possibility that the signals E1 and D2 can not be extracted simultaneously, lessens the cancellation capability. Fig. 10 illustrates schematically the uncertain time periods each of which centers around a data transient point, in which Fig. 10 a is for this invention while Fig. 10 b is for the prior art. Returning to Fig. 8, the clock signal CK1 is applied to the correlator 32 and also to the high speed flip flop 100. The data signal D2 is extracted using the clock signal CK1 at the flip flop 100, and is applied to the correlator 32. The correlator 32 extracts the error signal E1 using a relatively slow speed flip flop not shown using the same clock signal CK1, and then correlates the signals E1 and D2. It is therefore understood that according to the Fig. 8 arrangement, the uncertain time period can be narrowed relative to the case where the signals E1 and D2 are extracted by a slow speed flip flop at the correlator 32. Fig. 9 is a modification of the arrangement shown in Fig. 8. The modification includes the high speed flip flop 100 arranged between the demodulator 22 and the correlator 32 in order to extract the error signals E1 using the clock signal CK2. It is clear that this modification has the same effects as the Fig. 8 arrangement. The foregoing description shows only preferred embodiments of the present invention. Various modifications are apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the present invention which is only limited by the appended claims.