# Catalyst and process for demetallation, desulfurization and dewaxing of residua.

## Abstract
A catalyst for demetalizing, hydrotreating and hydrodewaxing petroleum residua in a single stage process is described. The catalyst includes conventional hydrogenation dehydrogenation components on a support of a refractory oxide material and Zeolite Beta. The catalyst has 75 of its pore volume in pores no greater than 100 Angstrom units in diameter and at least 18 to 20 of its pore volume in pores greater than 300 Angstrom units in diameter.

## Claims
1. A catalyst of a support of 5 to 30 wt Zeolite Beta and 95 70 wt of an inorganic oxide material, based on the weight of beta and inorganic oxide and a hydrogenation dehydrogenation component of at least one metal of Group VIA and Group VIII of the Periodic Table, characterized in that the catalyst has 75 of its pore volume in pores less than 100 Angstrom units diameter and at least 18 to 20 of its pore volume in pores greater than 300 Angstrom units diameter.

## Description
This application is directed to a catalytic process for hydrotreating heavy hydrocarbon streams containing waxy components, sulfur, metals and asphaltic materials. It is known in the art to effect sulfur removal from hydrocarbon stocks by subjecting them to treatment with hydrogen at elevated temperature and pressure while in contact with a catalyst containing hydrogenating components. Typically, the hydrogenating components of such prior art catalysts are Group VIA or Group VIII metals, or their oxides or sulfides. U. S. Patent No. 3,894,938 relates to the catalytic dewaxing and desulfurization of high pour point, high sulfur gas oils to lower their sulfur content by contacting such an oil first with a zeolite hydrodewaxing catalyst having a Constraint Index of 1 to 12, which may contain a hydrogenation dehydrogenation component, in the presence or absence of added hydrogen followed by conventional hydrodesulfurization processing of the dewaxed intermediate. U. S. Patent Nos. 4,456,700 and 4,458,024 relate to a process for hydrodewaxing and hydrotreating petroleum residua to more valuable products. The catalyst system described in U. S. Patent No. 4,458,024 includes a zeolite having a Constraint Index of 1 to 12, an alumina binder, at least one Group VIII metal selected from nickel, cobalt and iron, and at least one Group VIB metal. The catalyst is characterized by specific metals content and pore volume features. U. S. Patent No. 4,225,421 describes a process for hydrodemetallation and hydrodesulfurization of a hydrocarbon feedstock containing asphaltenes and metals by contacting the feedstock with hydrogen and a bimodal catalyst which contains at least one metal, e.g., molybdenum, chromium or tungsten. U. S. Patent No. 4,411,770 describes a process for the hydroconversion of heavy hydrocarbon oils, wherein the catalyst comprises a crystalline zeolite component and a metallic hydrogenation component. The zeolites taught as being useful in this process include zeolites having a Constraint Index of 1 to 12 and Na Beta. It would be beneficial if a process and catalyst were available which could efficiently remove metals, desulfurize and dewax petroleum residua. Accordingly, the present invention provides a catalyst of a support of 5 to 30 wt Zeolite Beta and 95 70 wt of an inorganic oxide material, based on the weight of beta and inorganic oxide and a hydrogenation dehydrogenation component of at least one metal of Group VIA and Group VIII of the Periodic Table, characterized in that the catalyst has 75 of its pore volume in pores less than 100 Angstrom units diameter and at least 18 to 20 of its pore volume in pores greater than 300 Angstrom units diameter. The present invention is directed to hydrotreating heavy hydrocarbon feedstocks which contain asphaltenes, metals, nitrogen compounds, sulfur compounds and waxy components. More specifically, the process is directed to treating feedstocks that contain small amounts of metal, e.g., from 30 ppm to 1000 ppm of nickel plus vanadium. Generally, the catalyst of the present invention is most useful for processing stocks that contain less than 300 ppm metals, and preferably less than 125 150 ppm metals, such as nickel and vanadium. When the feedstock contains a very large amount of metal, the feedstock may have to be treated in a two stage system, wherein a demetallation catalyst is used in the first stage to provide a partially demetallated feed to the second stage for contact with the catalyst of the present invention to remove the remaining metals, sulfur and waxy components. The catalysts of the present invention are especially useful for residua hydrodesulfurization units where demetallation is not a major concern, yielding a low sulfur product with increased distillate yield. They are also highly useful with heavy stocks, such as atmospheric and vacuum residua, as well as distillates which are difficult to hydrodewax with conventional catalysts. The catalysts embodied herein can be prepared in any conventional manner known to the art. Preferred are catalysts in which the metal components are nickel, cobalt, tungsten and molybdenum or mixtures thereof and, in particular, a mixture of nickel oxide and molybdenum oxide, NiO and MoO₃, which is well known in the catalytic art. Accordingly, their preparation forms no part of this invention. The base includes Zeolite Beta, optimally in combination with a crystalline silicate zeolite catalyst of the type described below, and at least one inorganic oxide, preferably alumina. Zeolite Beta is described in U. S. Patents Nos. 3,308,069 and Re. 28,341. Zeolite Beta is a crystalline silicate zeolite having a pore size greater than 5 Angstroms. The composition of the zeolite in its as synthesized form may be expressed as follows XNa 1.0 0.1 X TEA AlO₂.YSiO₂.WH₂O where X is less than l, preferably less than 0.75 TEA represents the tetraethylammonium ion Y is greater than 5 but less than 100 and W is up to about 60 it has been found that the degree of hydration may be higher than originally determined, where W was defined as being up to 4 , depending on the degree of hydration and the metal cation present. The TEA component is calculated by differences from the analyzed value of sodium and the theoretical cation to structural aluminum ratio of unity. In the fully base exchanged form, Zeolite Beta has the composition M 1.0 0.1 X H .AlO₂.YSiO₂.WH₂O where X, Y and W have the values listed above and n is the valence of the metal M. As it is now more conventional to refer to the silica alumina ratio of zeolites rather than to the silicon aluminum ratio thereof, it should be noted that the foregoing formula may also be expressed as M 1.0 0.1 X H .Al₂O₃.YSiO₂.WH₂O where Y, which determines the silica alumina ratio, is greater than 10. Thus, the numerical value of ratios expressed as silica alumina will always be twice as great as the corresponding silicon aluminum ratio of the zeolite. For example, a silicon aluminum ratio of 100 1 corresponds to a silica alumina ratio of 200 1. The ratios relating to Zeolite Beta referred to throughout the remainder of this description are expressed as silica alumina. In the partly base exchanged form which is obtained from the initial sodium form of the zeolite by ion exchange without calcining, Zeolite Beta has the formula M 1.0 0.1 X TEA .Al₂O₃.YSiO₂.WH₂O It is normally preferred to use a zeolite with an alpha value of 1 or more. The alpha value, and a measure of zeolite acidic functionality, is described, together with details of its measurement, in U. S. Patent No. 4,016,218 and in When synthesized in the alkali metal form, Zeolite Beta may be converted to the hydrogen form by formation of the intermediate ammonium form as a result of ammonium ion exchange and calcination of the ammonium form to yield the hydrogen form. In addition to the hydrogen form, other forms of the zeolite, wherein the original alkali metal has been reduced, may be used. Thus, the original alkali metal of the zeolite may be replaced by ion exchange with other suitable metal cations, including, by way of example, platinum, nickel, copper, zinc, palladium, calcium or rare earth metals. Zeolite Beta, in addition to possessing a composition as defined above, may also be characterized by its X ray diffraction data, which are set out in U. S. Patent Nos. 3,308,069 and Re. 28,341. It has been found that Zeolite Beta may be prepared with very high silica alumina ratios, of e.g., 250 1 or 500 1 or higher may be obtained. The silica alumina ratios referred to in this specification are the structural or framework ratios, that is, the ratio of the SiO₄ to the AlO₄ tetrahedra, which together constitute the structure of which the zeolite is composed. This ratio may vary from the silica alumina ratio determined by various physical and chemical methods. A gross chemical analysis may include aluminum present in the form of cations associated with the acidic sites on the zeolite, giving a low silica alumina ratio. If the ratio is determined by thermogravimetric analysis TGA of ammonia desorption, a low ammonia titration may be obtained if cationic aluminum prevents exchange of the ammonium ions onto the acidic sites. These disparities are particularly troublesome when certain treatments, such as the dealuminization method described below, which result in the presence of ionic aluminum free of the zeolite structure are employed. The silica alumina ratio of the zeolite may be determined by the nature and amount of the starting materials used. Some variation in the ratio may be obtained by changing the relative concentration of the silica precursor relative to the alumina precursor, but definite limits in the maximum obtainable silica alumina ratio of the zeolite may be observed. For Zeolite Beta, this limit is usually about 200 1 although higher ratios may be obtained and for ratios above this value, other methods are usually necessary for preparing the desired high silica zeolite. One such method comprises dealumination by extraction with acid. The details of this method are given in European Patent Application Number 83302776.6, Publication Number 0095304. If desired, the zeolite may be steamed prior to acid extraction so as to increase the silica alumina ratio and render the zeolite more stable to the acid. The steaming may also serve to increase the ease with which the acid is removed and to promote the retention of crystallinity during the extraction procedure. Although the present invention does not require zeolites other than Zeolite Beta, they may be added to the catalyst of the present invention in amounts generally less than 5 wt , and preferably less than 2 wt . The zeolite catalysts serve a variety of purposes known to the art. Typical zeolites, and patents describing same, useful herein along with their Constraint Index CI , are listed in the following table. Constraint Index is described fully in U. S. Patent No. 4,016,218. Constraint Index seems to vary somewhat with severity of operation conversion and the presence or absence of binders. Likewise, other variables, such as crystal size of the zeolite, the presence of occluded contaminants, etc., may affect the Constraint Index. The catalyst system of the present invention includes a hydrogenation dehydrogenation component which is impregnated on a base comprising Zeolite Beta and one or more inorganic oxides. The hydrogenation dehydrogenation component utilized comprises one or more metals selected from Group VIA and Group VIII of the Periodic Table. The preferred Group VIII metals include iron, nickel and cobalt, with nickel and cobalt being especially preferred. The Group VIII noble metals e.g., palladium and platinum are less effective in desulfurizing and denitrogenating residua. These metals are expensive and more subject to poisoning than are iron, nickel and cobalt. Thus, the non noble metals of Group VIII are preferred to the noble metals. Noble metals may, in theory, be useful in this catalyst, but in practical applications the overall effectiveness of catalyst systems containing non noble metals will be greater. Accordingly, the following description relating to the metals content is oriented toward the use of non noble metals. All metals concentrations are given as wt metal, on an elemental metal basis, on dried final catalyst. If used, the noble metals will be 0.1 to 5 by weight of the catalyst. The metals content of the catalyst may range from 1 to 10 Group VIII metal and 2 to 20 Group VIA metal. The preferred amount of Group VIII metal is 2 to 10 . The preferred amount of Group VIA metal is 5 to 20 . The total metals content of Group VIA metal s and the Group VIII metal s , most preferably nickel and molybdenum can range from 10 to 25 by weight. There is preferably more Group VIA metal, e.g., molybdenum, than Group VIII metal, e.g., nickel. The catalyst support metal comprises crystalline Zeolite Beta composited with an inorganic oxide, such as alumina or silica, for example, or mixtures of inorganic oxides. The amount of Zeolite Beta in the catalyst is 5 to 30 by weight, based on the combined weight of Zeolite Beta and inorganic oxide. The inorganic oxide is 95 to 70 by weight of the combined weight of Zeolite Beta and inorganic oxide. The catalyst of the present invention should have a particular bimodal pore size distribution. It is highly desirable if the catalyst has a total pore volume of 0.4 cc g to 1.0 cc g. 75 of the catalyst pore volume should be less than about 100 Angstrom A units in diameter. 18 to 20 of the pore volume should be greater than 300A in diameter, and less than 8 of the pore volume should be 100 to 300A in diameter. This range of pore volumes gives the catalyst a unique combination of functions. The catalyst of the present invention has a considerable number of pores of volume less than 100A in diameter, which accommodates the desulfurization reaction, and a significant number of pores larger than 300A in diameter, which is useful for demetallation. The inorganic oxide used may also be silica magnesia, silica zirconia, silica thoria, silica beryllia, silica titania, silica alumina thoria, silica alumina zirconia, silica alumina magnesia and silica magnesia zirconia. The inorganic oxide may also comprise naturally occurring clays, such as montmorillonite and kaolin clay including the sub bentonites and the kaolins commonly known as Dixie, McNamee Georgia and Florida clays, or others in which the main mineral constituent is halloysite, kaolinite, dickite, nacrite or anauxite. Such clays can be used in the raw state as originally mined or initially subjected to calcination, acid treatment or chemical modification. The preferred inorganic oxide is alumina. The characteristic of composited alumina catalysts depends on the properties of the alumina. An alumina possessing characteristics which are eminently suitable for preparation of the novel catalyst of this invention is one manufactured by Conoco Chemical Company under their tradename Catapal SB, in the form of alpha alumina monohydrate powder. Other commercial alpha alumina monohydrate powders, such as supplied by Kaiser and American Cyanamid, can be used. The catalyst may be prepared, e.g., by mixing Zeolite Beta with Catapal SB alumina, followed by extruding, calcining, exchanging to low sodium content, drying, impregnating with a Group VI metal salt solution, drying, impregnating with a Group VIII metal salt solution, and re calcining. Other methods can be used such as mix mulling of the Zeolite Beta, inorganic oxide support and hydrogenation dehydrogenation component, followed by extruding and calcining. The extrudate then may be exchanged to low sodium, dried and re calcined. Exchange is unnecessary if the Zeolite Beta is exchanged to low sodium prior to blending with the alumina for extrusion. This procedure was used in the Example. Typical process conditions of this invention include a hydrogen pressure of 3,500 to 21,000 kPa 500 3000 psig , a temperature of 316 to 455 C 600 850 F , and a liquid hourly space velocity LHSV of 0.1 5, based on the total volume of catalyst in the reactor. The catalyst of the present invention reduces the metal, sulfur and Conradson Carbon Residue CCR content of residua, as well as reducing its pour point. In general, at least 50 by volume of the residua boils above 900 F 482 C . An example is residua derived from Arabian Light crude having the following characteristics A catalyst sample was prepared by extruding a mixture of Zeolite Beta in ammonium form and Catapal SB alumina. The Zeolite Beta utilized had a silica alumina ratio of 19 1, a residual sodium content of 0.02 wt and an alpha activity of 581 the Zeolite Beta was calcined, but was not steamed. The extrudate was then dried and calcined at 538 C 1000 F to form a base containing 10 wt of Zeolite Beta and 90 wt Al₂O₃. The calcined extrudate was then impregnated with ammonium heptamolybdate, dried, and then impregnated with nickel nitrate. The metal impregnated catalyst was then calcined at 538 C 1000 F to form a catalyst containing 3.5 wt NiO and 10 wt MoO₃, based on total catalyst weight. The catalyst properties and the properties of a commercially available resid hydrodesulfurization catalyst are listed below A Lagomedio atmospheric resid was hydroprocessed in a shaker bomb unit utilizing the catalyst from Example 1. This resid had the following properties prior to treatment The results of the hydroprocessing are set forth below, along with the results obtained with the known commercial catalyst under the same process conditions. A second Lagomedio atmospheric resid was treated in a shaker bomb unit using the commercial catalyst and the catalyst from Example 1, under the process conditions in Example 2. The resid feed had the following properties