# A parking brake arrangement for a rail vehicle brake unit.

## Abstract
A rail vehicle brake unit has a parking brake member 18 provided with a shoulder 18 and movable in a brake force applying direction concurrently with a force delivering push rod 2 of the unit, which has a fixed mounting bracket 3 at each side. A parking brake arrangement for such a brake unit is attained in that two generally co directional parking brake levers 19, 20 are pivotally attached to each mounting bracket 3 at a common pivot point 11 , whereby two levers 19 extend past the pivot point and are joined by a roller 21 for abutting the shoulder 18 , whereas the two other levers 20 only extend to the pivot point and are joined by a roller 22 for abutting the shoulder, the distance between the respective rollers and the pivot point being the same.

## Claims
CLAIM A parking brake arrangement for a rail vehicle brake unit 1 , comprising a parking brake member 18 provided with a shoulder 18 and movable in a brake force applying direction concurrently with a force delivering push rod 2 of the unit, which is provided with a fixed mounting bracket 3 at each side, characterized in that two generally codirectional parking brake levers 19, 20 are pivotally attached to each mounting bracket 3 at a common pivot point 11 , whereby two levers 19 extend past the pivot point and are joined by a roller 21 for abutting the shoulder 18 , whereas the two other levers 20 only extend to the pivot point and are joined by a roller 22 for abutting the shoulder, the distance between the respective rollers and the pivot point being the same.

## Description
A PARKING BRAKE ARRANGEMENT FOR A RAIL VEHICLE BRAKE UNITTechnical Field This invention relates to a parking brake arrangement for a rail vehicle brake unit, comprising a parking brake member provided with a shoulder and movable in a brake force applying direction concurrently with a force delivering push rod of the unit, which is provided with a fixed mounting bracket at each side.Background of the Invention Normally, a vehicle provided with a brake unit for each wheel, brake disc or axle also needs a parking brake arrangement, which may be combined with one or more of the brake units on the vehicle. It is desirable to have a parking brake arrangement which is as simple and efficient as possible, only gives balanced forces on the unit, and does not require any special reference point for its proper function.The Invention This is according to the invention attained by a parking brake arrangement of the kind defined above, in which two generally codirectional parking brake levers are pivotally attached to each mounting bracket at a common pivot point, whereby two levers extend past the pivot point and are joined by a roller for abutting the shoulder, whereas the two other levers only extend to the pivot point and are joined by a roller for abutting the shoulder, the distance between the respective rollers and the pivot point being the same.Brief Description of the Drawing The invention will be described in further detail below reference being made to the accompanying drawing, in which Figs 1 and 2 are sideviews partly in section showing a rail vehicle brake unit with two embodiments of a parking brake arrangement, of which the one shown inFig. 2 is according to the invention.Description of a Preferred Embodiment A conventional brake unit 1 comprises as is well known in the art a brake cylinder and a slack adjuster built together as a self contained unit. Its outgoing push rod 2 is to be attached to parts of a rail vehicle brake rigging not shown , and the unit itself is to be mounted to the underframe or bogie of the vehicle by means of mounting brackets 3 on the unit usually one bracket at each side of the unit . In the sectioned part of Fig. 1 a member 4 of the slack adjuster mechanism is shown. This member 4 is axially movable concurrently with the push rod 2 to the left in the drawing guided by a fixed housing 5 of the unit 1 at a brake application operation under the action of brake fluid admitted to the cylinder of the unit. For the purpose of accomplishing a parking brake arrangement for the unit a parking brake sleeve 6 is slidably arranged on the fixed housing 5 and is intended to actuate the slack adjuster member 4 in the brake application direction over a locking ring 7 thereon. A first flexible bellows 8 is arranged between a member on the push rod 2 and the sleeve 6 and a second one 9 between the sleeve 6 and the housing 5, both for the purpose to prevent the intrusion of dirt, moisture and the like. In the embodiment shown in Fig. 1, which is a basic design and forms no part of the invention, a fixed parking brake bracket 10 is attached to each mounting bracket 3 by means of a screw 11, which can also be used for the mounting of the unit to the vehicle underframe or bogie. By its shape indicated with dashed lines in the drawing the parking brake bracket 10 is held stationary to the unit by the screw 11. A parking brake lever 12 is pivoted at 13 to each bracket 10 and abuts a shoulder 6 on the parking brake sleeve 6 with its upper end as viewed in the drawing . At its lower end the lever 12 may be actuated by a pulling force in the direction indicated by an arrow in a wire 14 or the like attached to an attachment 15 between the two levers 12. A similar attachment 16 can be arranged between the ends of the parking brake brackets 10 and serves as a support for a Bowden cable 17 to which the wire 14 belongs. By means of the arrangement described above and shown in Fig. 1 a pulling force in the wire 14 is transformed into a pushing force in the push rod 2, and the force amplification depends on the length relationship between the two arms of the lever 12. In the shown example the amplification will be 2 . The inventive embodiment shown in Fig. 2 differs from the basic one according to Fig. 1 in some important respects, but the unit 1 itself with the push rod 2, the mounting brackets 3 and the slack adjuster member 4 are the same in both versions. Also in Fig. 2 two bellows 8 and 9 are shown. In the same manner as the Fig. 1 version a parking brake sleeve 18 is slidably mounted on the tubular housing not shown of the unit 1 and is provided with a comparatively large shoulder 18 . In this case two parking brake levers 19 and 20 are pivotally mounted to each bracket 3 by means of a screw 11 which also is used for the mounting of the unit to the vehicle . The levers 19 extend past the pivot point 11 and are there joined by a roller 21 or the like, whereas in a corresponding way a roller 22 connects the two levers 20 at a distance below the pivot point 11 corresponding to the distance to the roller 21 upwards from the pivot point.The rollers 21 and 22 cooperate as shown in Fig. 2 with the shoulder 18 and it is obvious that by urging the ends of the levers 19 and 20 together as indicated by the arrows the rollers 21 and 22 will apply a balanced force on the shoulder 18, resulting in a brake applying push force in the push rod 2. In the shown case, where the length ratio between the two parts of the respective lever 19 and 20 is 2.5, a total force amplification of 5 times is attained. Many ways of practically accomplishing counteracting forces on the ends of the levers 19 and 20 are conceivable. Only one possibility is indicated in Fig. 2. A fluid operated pulling cylinder 23 may be connected with its housing to lever 20 and with its piston rod to lever 19. Also a wire arrangement to the side of the vehicle is possible in a corresponding manner as is shown in Fig. 1. It is to be noted that the difference between units with and without parking brake arrangements is very slight and that a modification of a unit without parking brake to one with a parking brake is easy and cheap.Thus the outer levers and other members as described are easily mountable on the existing mounting brackets 3 without modifications.