# DETERMINATION OF CHLAMYDIA TRACHOMATIS

## Claims
Verfahren zur qualitativen oder quantitativen Bestimmung des Vorhandenseins von Chlamydia trachomatis oder von Material, das von Chlamydia trachomatis stammt, in einem Untersuchungsmaterial, bei dem man eine Probe von dem Untersuchungsmaterial gewinnt und die Probe in einem Immunoassay untersucht, dadurch gekennzeichnet, daß der Immunoassay unter spezifischer Bindung mit einem Lipopolysaccharid Epitop von Material, das von Chlamydia trachomatis stammt, durchgeführt wird und dadurch, daß die Probe vom Untersuchungsmaterial durch ein Verfahren gewonnen wird, das die Erwärmung des Untersuchungsmaterials auf eine Temperatur von mindestens 70⁰C für einen Zeitraum von mindestens fünf Minuten einschließt, um dadurch die Bestimmung zu beschleunigen.

## Description
The present invention relates to the determination qualitatively or quantitatively of the presence of A known procedure for conducting determinations of In a modification of this procedure, the bound catalyst is an enzyme which is used to catalyse a reaction which produces a trigger for a further reaction or set of reactions. Such systems are known as amplified enzyme immunoassay systems. The assay depends upon the specific binding of the catalyst enzyme to the bound antigen. Any binding of catalyst enzyme to the support which is not through binding to the antigen is termed non specific binding and will produce bound enzyme which will catalyse the detecting reaction producing a signal which is not related to the concentration of the antigen in the sample. It is known that all members of the genus EP A 0059624 discloses a method for the isolation of the major outer membrane protein of Surprisingly however, it has now been found that non specific binding can be decreased and that specific binding can apparently be increased by heating the Accordingly, the present invention provides a process for determining qualitatively or quantitatively the presence of Preferably, said immunoassay comprises the steps of contacting the Suitably, said immunoassay comprises the steps of contacting said sample with an antibody against a Preferably, the material is heated to a temperature from 70 to 110 C. Preferably the material is heated to a temperature of from 80 to 100 C. Generally, an improvement in the determination will be obtained by maintaining the material at the elevated temperature for longer than five minutes. Preferably, the material is maintained at the elevated temperature from 5 to 40 minutes. It is generally found that no further improvement in the determination is obtained by holding times longer than this and there may be some gradual deterioration in the determination from the optimum upon long holding times. Generally speaking, it is preferable to heat for the shortest time likely to enhance the determination to the maximum amount possible by this method. Generally, such optimum enhancement will be obtained by heating from 5 to 30 minutes, generally 15 minutes. The material heated may be swabs such as cervical or urethral swabs. Preferably, swabs free from wood, e.g. having a plastic stick, are used. The heating may however be carried out on the sample immediately ready for analysis e.g. an extract of a sample swab. Alternatively, the sample may be subjected to other procedures to prepare it for analysis following the heating stage. This heating procedure may be employed in any immunoassay technique for the determination of Preferably however, the analysis system is an enzyme linked system so that the reaction system catalyst referred to above is an enzyme. Preferably, the conjugated enzyme is a phosphatase, either an acid phosphatase or an alkaline phosphatase being acceptable. Preferably the reaction system is such as to provide an assay of the amplified type so that the reaction system catalyst catalyses a first reaction which produces a modulator for a secondary part of the reaction system. Suitable assay systems are disclosed in EP A 84304328, 0027036 and 0060123 and in EP B 0058539 and are otherwise well known. As disclosed in those specifications, the modulator produced by the first reaction is preferably NAD which is obtained by the conversion by a conjugated phosphatase as the reaction system catalyst of NADP to NAD . The NAD In connection with such preferred analysis systems, it has been found that the presence of certain types of detergent is undesirable during the sample heating stage. Small amounts of certain detergent are desirably present during certain enzyme linked immunoassays to reduce non specific binding. However, it appears that the presence of certain types of detergent during the heating stage interferes with the subsequent analysis. Accordingly, if detergent is present during heating, it should be selected to be compatible with this procedure. An example of a suitable detergent is Triton X 705 Triton is a Trade Mark . Zwitterionic detergents should generally be avoided. It has been found that the presence at the heating stage of divalent cations, specifically magnesium and zinc ions, is beneficial. Magnesium and zinc are usually included in solutions used for the storage or use of enzymes as they prevent degradation of the enzyme on keeping. This does not explain the benefit obtained in the present invention from their presence as no enzyme connected with the assay is normally present at this stage in the solution being heated. Accordingly, it is preferred that there is present during the heating stage a divalent cation, preferably zinc and or magnesium. Preferably, both are present. Suitable concentrations are up to 5 mM Mg It has also been found that the presence of protein material during the heating stage is beneficial. The protein should be chosen such that it will not coagulate at the concentrations used. Partially hydrolysed gelatins have been found suitable as well as foetal calf serum. Suitable gelatin derived proteins are available under the Trade Mark BYCO. Byco A is preferred. This is produced by enzymic hydrolysis of gelatin to produce a cold water soluble protein of number average molecular weight of 2,500 to 4,000 Formol titration method or 11,000 gel permeation chromatography . Suitable concentrations for use in the heating stage of the present process are from 0.5 to 5 w v. Preferably from 1 to 2 w v is used. Accordingly, the invention includes a heating medium for use in a method as described above comprising assay enhancing concentrations of a divalent cation and a soluble protein. Preferably, the divalent cation concentration is from 0.05 to 5 mM, and the protein concentration is from 0.5 to 5 w v. More preferably, the solution contains Mg Preferably, the medium contains the protein at from 1 to 2 w v. The invention includes an assay kit comprising such a heating medium. The invention will be illustrated by the following examples Known culture negative and known culture positive specimens cervical swabs in transport medium were tested for the presence of Prior to analysis the sample bearing swabs were divided into four groups and groups 2 and 4 were heated in aqueous extraction buffer at 80 C for 15 minutes in a water bath. Groups 1 and 2 were extracted with cold aqueous extraction buffer analysed as set out above using microtitre plates coated with antibody specific for Groups 3 and 4 were analysed as set out above but on a microtitre plate coated with antibody not specific to Subtraction of the optical densities of Group 3 from Group 1 samples and of Group 4 from Group 2 samples gives a measure of the amount of non specific binding encountered using unheated and heated sample swabs respectively. The Data show that some non heated positive samples bind almost equally well to non specific antibody coated plates as to Assays as described in Example 1 were carried out using It can be seen that the signal from the positive control and culture positive specimen were optimised by 15 minutes heating and non specific binding in the culture negative sample showing high non specific binding was not detectable after 15 minutes boiling. It can be seen from this example that heating does not only reduce the non specific binding of negative samples, but can also enhance the signal given by positive specimens. This is especially valuable where small amounts of Chlamydia material is present in the specimen. Samples were divided and treated as in Example 1 and analysed using specific and non specific antibody plates, as in Example 1. The results appear in Table 3. In this case boiling significantly increased the signal from positive samples, i.e Boiling known culture negative samples eliminated the occasional false positive signal, e.g. samples 34 and 38. It can be seen from these Examples that heating the samples reduces non specific binding and also may increase the amount of reaction product produced by the assay, making the assay more sensitive and increasing the effective signal to noise ratio obtained. Known positive samples in the form of swab materials of different types were extracted using cold and hot extraction buffer solutions of different make up. The extraction solutions were as follows 100 ul. of a 1 100 dilution of a standard preparation of purified elementary bodies of Each loaded swab was immersed in 2 ml. of an extraction diluent, whirlimixed for approx 5 sec., and a 500ul. aliquot removed as a pre boil sample. The remaining fluids plus swabs were placed in a boiling waterbath for 15 min. An assay as described in Example 1 for It can be seen that the nature of the swab material affects the analysis, perhaps as a result of more or less antigen being extracted from the swab material because of binding of antigen to the swab material. The nature of the eluent solution affects the assay result and the presence of zinc and or magnesium ion is beneficial. To a lesser degree, the presence of hydrolysed gelatin is also shown to be beneficial. Best results came from using cotton wool and the polyester foam swabs performed better than the albumin coated swabs. The following diluent solutions were used with and without heating to dilute known positive sample and the samples were then analysed generally as in Example 1. The diluent solutions were as follows The antigen was a lysate of McCoy cells infected with 100µl. of antigen was added to 2 ml. of each diluent, and whirlimixed for approx. 5 sec. A sample was reserved as preboil and the remainder was placed in a boiling waterbath for 15 min. Duplicate 200 µl. aliquots of each fluid were assayed. The combination of 2mM MgCl₂ and 0.2 mM ZnCl₂ offers the best net result after boiling, i.e. increasing concentrations of Mg 100ul. per swab of McCoy cell preparation of Loaded swabs were placed in 2.0 ml. aliquots of diluent and left overnight. Similar controls containing the same amount of antigen but no swab were set up. All samples were whirlimixed, 500 µl. aliquots were removed, and the remainder placed in a boiling waterbath for 15 minutes. All fluids were then subjected to the assay procedure described in Example 1. It may be seen that loss of antigen is less and recovery after boiling more when no wood is present in the swab. Sterilin swabs were loaded with formalinised An assay as described in Example 1 was performed on the fluids before and after heating on a boiling water bath for 15 minutes. It is clearly shown that boiling in Eagles MEM 5 calf serum enhances the signal obtained from