# Process for purifying a copolymer containing acrylonitrile groups.

## Abstract
The invention relates to a process for purifying a copolymer containing acrylonitrile groups, by treating the copolymer per kg impurities of the copolymer, with at least 1 Nm³ NPT of an extractant chosen from substances the critical temperature of which is lower than 435 K, at a temperature higher than 0.9 time the critical temperature of the extractant and a pressure higher than 0.9 time the critical pressure of the extractant. A major advantage of the process according to the invention is the substantial improvement of the heat distor tion temperature HDT of the purified copolymer containing acrylonitrile groups compared with the HDT of the copolym er containing acrylonitrile groups before the purification.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Process for purifying a copolymer containing acrylonitrile groups, characterized in that, per kg impurities of the copolymer, the copo lymer is treated with at least 1 Nm3 NPT of an extractant chosen from substances the critical temperature of which is lower than 435 K, at a temperature higher than 0.9 time the critical tem perature of the extractant and a pressure higher than 0.9 time the critical pressure of the extractant. 2. Process according to claim 1, characterized in that the treatment with the extractant is made to last 0.1 minute 5 hours. 3. Process according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the treat ment with the extractant is made to last 5 minutes 5 hours. 4. Process according to any one of claims 1 3, characterized in that the treatment with the extractant is effected at a temperature bet ween 0.9 time the critical temperature of the extractant and 600 K. 5. Process according to any one of claims 1 4, characterized in that the treatment with the extractant is effected at a pressure between 0.9 time the critical pressure and 10 times the critical pressure of the extractant. 6. Process according to any one of claims 1 5, characterized in that, per kg impurities of the copolymer, 1 1500 Nm3 NPT extractant ia used. 7. Process according to any one of claims 1 6, characterized in that the extractant used is C02 and or ethylene. 8. Process according to any one of claims 1 7 as described in substance and elucidated by the examples. 9. Purified copolymer containing acrylonitrile groups, prepared by applying a process according to any one of claims 1 8. 10. Article wholly or partly produced from a purified copolymer con taining acrylonitrile groups according to claim 9.

## Description
PROCESSOR PURIFYING A COPOLYMER A COPOLYMER CONTINING ACRYLONITRILE GROUPS The invention relates to a process for purifying a copolymer containing acrylonitrile groups. Examples of copolymers containing acrylonitrile groups are acrylonitrile butadiene styrene copolymers ABS and styreneacrylonitrile copolymers SAN . After the polymerization such copolymers contain all sorts of impurities, particularly unconverted acrylonitrile.The impurity present in all copolymers containing acrylonitrile groups is the acrylonitrile that allows itself to be virtually completely removed from such copolymers with very great difficulty. This removal of acrylonitrile must be very thorough in view of the high toxicity of this material. The present invention provides a very simple and yet effective solution for purifying copolymers containing acrylonitrile groups.According to the invention a process for purifying copolymers containing acrylonitrile groups is characterized in that, per kg impurities in the copolymer, the copolymer is treated with at least 1 Nm3 NPT of an extractant chosen from substances the critical temperature of which is lower than 435 K, at a temperature higher than 0.9 time the critical temperature of the extractant and at a pressure higher than 0.9 time the critical pressure of the extractant. Here and elsewhere in the text and in the claims Nm3 NPT is understood to mean the number of m3 of the relative substance measured at a pressure of 1 bar and a temperature of 273 K.Suitable examples of these substances are S02, N20, NO, CO, CH4,N2, CO2, ethylene and propylene and mixtures of these components among themselves and or with less than 50 vol other components, which mixtures must have a critical temperature lower than 470 K. Of these examples most preference is given to CO2 and ethylene. The fact is that C02 and ethylene are highly effective extractants which are very cheap and readily available. Critical temperature and critical pressure are understood in this connection to mean the temperature and the pressure going with the gas liquid critical point. A very effective duration of the treatment using the extractant is between 0.1 minute and 5 hours, preferably between 5 minutes and 5 hours. A longer duration of the treatment is possible, but does not result in an appreciably better degree of purification. A very effective temperature for the treatment using the extractant is between 0.9 time the critical temperature of the extractant and 600 K, preferably between 290 and 470 K. A very effective pressure for the treatment using the extractant is between 0.9 time the critical pressure of the extractant and, prompted only by practical considerations such as high costs of extremepressure equipment, 10 times the critical pressure of the extractant, preferably between 65 and 500 bar. A very effective amount of extractant per kg impurities in the copolymer to be purified is between 1 and 1500 Nm3 NPT . A lower amount of extractant results in too low a degree of purification and a higher amount only results in an increase in costs and not in an appreciably better degree of purification. Preference is given to using at least 40 Nm3 extractant per kg impurities in the copolymer to be purified. A major advantage of the process according to the invention is the substantial improvement of the heat distortion temperature HDT of the purified copolymer containing acrylonitrile groups compared with theHDT of the copolymer containing acrylonitrile groups before the purification. The process according to the invention is further elucidated by means of the following non restrictive examples.Example I Into an autoclave of 50 cm3 20 g ABS powder is fed. This powder contains 0.11 wt acrylonitrile ACN , 0.03 wt amethylstyrene AM , 0.30 wt unsubstituted styrene US and 0.23 wt other organic impurities OOI . For 30 minutes CO2 is passed through this ABS powder at a rate of 0.548 Nm3 NTP per hour at a pressure of 180 bar and a temperature of 313 K. After this extraction treatment the remaining ABS powder is analyzed. This ABS powder now contains only less than 0.01 wt ACN, less than 0.01 X wt AM, less than 0.01 wt US and less than 0.1 x wt O0l. Example II Into an autoclave of 50 cm3 is fed 20 g of an ABS powder the same as that used in example I. For 60 minutes C02 is passed through this ABS powder at a rate of 0.420 Nm3 NTP per hour at a pressure of 180 bar and a temperature of 313 K. After this extraction treatment the remaining ABS powder is analyzed. This ABS powder now contains only less than 0.01 wt ACN, less than 0.01 wt AM, 0.01 wt US and less than 0.1 wt 001. Example III Into an autoclave of 50 cm3 is fed 20 g of an ABS powder the same as that used in example I. For 15 minutes C02 is passed through this ABS powder at a rate of 0.552 Nm3 NTP per hour at a pressure of 180 bar and a temperature of 313 K. After this extraction treatment the remaining ABS powder is analyzed. This ABS powder now contains only less than 0.01 wt ACN, less than 0.01 wt AM, less than 0.01 wt US and less than 0.1 wt 00I. Example IV Into an autoclave of 50 cm3 is fed 20 g of an ABS powder the same as that used in example I. For 15 minutes C02 is passed through this ABS powder at a rate of 0.516 Nm3 NTP per hour at a pressure of 300 bar and a temperature of 313 K. After this extraction treatment the remaining ABS powder is analyzed. This ABS powder now contains only less than 0.01 wt ACN, less than 0.01 wt AM, 0.03 wt US and less than 0.1 wt 00I. Example V Into an autoclave of 50 cm3 is fed 20 g of an ABS powder the same as that used in example I. For 15 minutes C02 is passed through this ABS powder at a rate of 0.532 Nm3 NTP per hour at a pressure of 180 bar and a temperature of 308 K. After this extraction treatment the remaining ABS powder is analyzed. This ABS powder now contains only less than 0.01 wt ACN, less than 0.01 Z wt AM, 0.03 wt US and less than 0.1 Z wt OOI. Example VI Into an autoclave of 50 cm3 is fed 20 g of an ABS powder the same as that used in example I. For 15 minutes ethylene is passed through this ABS powder at a rate of 0.550 Nm3 NTP per hour at a pressure of 300 bar and a temperature of 313 K. After this extraction treatment the remaining ABS powder is analyzed. This ABS powder now contains only less than 0.01 wt ACN, less than 0.01 X wt AM, 0.02 wt US and less than 0.1 wt OOI. Example VII Into an autoclave of 2000 cm3 300 g ABS powder is fed. This powder contains 0.08 wt ACN, 0.19 Z wt AM, 0.16 wt US and 1.17 Z wt 00I. For 90 minutes CO2 is passed through this ABS powder at a rate of 2.003 Nm3 NTP per hour at a pressure of 180 bar and a temperature of 313 K. After this extraction treatment the remaining ABS powder is analyzed. This ABS powder now contains only less than 0.01 x wt ACN, less than 0.01 x wt AM, less than 0.01 wt US and 0.12 wt OOI. The HDT of this cleaned ABS powder is 10 K higher than the HDT of the starting ABS powder.Example VIII Into an autoclave of 2000 cm3 is fed 300 g of an ABS powder the same as that used in example VI. For 300 minutes CO2 is passed through this ABS powder at a rate of 0.576 Nm3 NTP per hour at a pressure of 180 bar and a temperature of 313 K. After this extraction treatment the remaining ABS powder is analyzed. This ABS powder now contains only less than 0.01 wt ACN, less than 0.01 wt AM, less than 0.01 wt US and less than 0.1 wt 00I. The HDT of this cleaned ABS powder is 10 K higher than the HDT of the starting ABS powder.Example IX Into an autoclave of 50 cm3 20 g SAN granules is fed. These granules contain 0.53 Z wt ACN, 2.27 Z wt US and 0.12 Z wt 00I. For 30 minutes C02 is passed through these SAN granules at a rate of 0.464 Nm3 NTP per hour at a pressure of 180 bar and a temperature of 313 K. After this extraction treatment the remaining SAN granules are analyzed. These SAN granules now contain only less than 0.01 wt ACN, less than 0.01 Z wt US and less than 0.01 wt OOI. Example X Into an autoclave of 50 cm3 is fed 20 g of the same SAN granules as used in example IX. For 60 minutes C02 is passed through these SAN granules at a rate of 0.431 Nm3 NTP per hour at a pressure of 180 bar and a temperature of 313 K. After this extraction treatment the remaining SAN granules are analyzed. These SAN granules now contain only less than 0.01 wt ACN and less than 0.01 wt US and less than 0.01 wt OOI. Example XI Into an autoclave of 50 cm3 is fed 20 g of the same SAN granules as used in example VIII. For 60 minutes C02 is passed through these SAN granules at a rate of 0.438 Nm3 NTP per hour at a pressure of 300 bar and a temperature of 313 K. After this extraction treatment the remaining SAN granules are analyzed. These SAN granules now contain only less than 0.01 wt ACN, less than 0.01 wt US and less than 0.01 wt 00I.