# SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICE

## Claims
Halbleitervorrichtung, bei der eine Basisschicht 3 sandwichartig zwischen einer Emitterschicht 7 und einer Kollektorschicht 4 angeordnet ist, und eine Elektrodenschicht 2 , die ein Array von Spalten darin hat, an einem Heteroübergang zwischen der Emitterschicht 7 und der Basisschicht 3 vorgesehen ist, dadurch gekennzeichnet, daß die genannte Emitterschicht 7 eine Energiebandlücke hat, die in der Breite größer als jene der genannten Basischicht 3 ist.

## Description
The present invention relates to a semiconductor device. A device described as a permeable base transistor PBT and comprising an emitter layer, a comb shaped or lattice shaped base electrode, a base layer, a collector layer, an emitter electrode, and a collector electrode has been proposed in WO A 8l 00489. In such a PBT, the value of the voltage applied to a comb shaped base electrode can be used to change the coverage of the depletion layer extending from the base electrode in the horizontal direction. This effect can be used to control the electrons passing between the comb shaped base electrode from the emitter layer to the collector layer. The thickness of the base electrode is about 0.02 µm, corresponding to a field effect transistor FET which also has a short gate length of about 0.02 µm. Therefore, the time taken for electrons to pass through the base electrode in the PBT is very short, enabling a high speed of operation. However, the switching speed of such a PBT is about 15 ps at best. Thus, a higher switching speed PBT is required. According to one aspect of the present invention there is provided a semiconductor device wherein a base layer is sandwiched between an emitter layer and a collector layer, and an electrode layer having an array of gaps therein is provided at a heterojunction between the emitter layer and the base layer, characterised in that the said emitter layer has an energy band gap which is greater in width than that of the said base layer. Reference will now be made, by way of example, to the accompanying drawings, in which As shown in Fig. 1, on a n In the above mentioned structure of a PBT, as explained above, the passing time of electrons from the emitter layer 1 to the collector layer 4 through the base electrode 2 is such that the switching speed limit is about 15 ps. Figure 2 is a cross sectional view of a PBT embodying the present invention. As shown in Fig. 2, an n type AlGaAs emitter layer 7 is additionally formed on the n The n type AlGaAs emitter layer 7 has a wider energy bandgap than the n type GaAs base layer 3 and n type GaAs collector layer 4. Further, the comb shaped or lattice shaped base electrode 2 is formed on a heterojunction surface formed by the n type AlGaAs emitter layer 7 and the n type GaAs base layer 3. A Schottky junction or insulation layer 10 is interposed at respective interfaces between the electrode 2 and the emitter and base layers 7, 3 . Thus the base electrode 2 is not in ohmic contact with the base layer 3 or the emitter layer 7. The operation of the PBT described above will now be explained. Figures 3 and 5 show partial cross sectional views of the embodiment, explaining depletion layers when V Figures 4 and 6 are energy band diagrams for Figs. 3 and 5, respectively. In Figs. 3 to 6, the areas 8 around the comb shaped or lattice shaped base electrode 2 denote depletion layers, and e₁ o and e₂ o denote electrons and hot electrons, respectively. In Fig. 3, V On the other hand, in Fig. 5, V As shown in Figs. 4 and 6, the barrier height of the emitter layer 7 gradually increases from the emitter contact layer 1a to the base layer 3, so as to enable the electrons e₁ in the emitter contact layer 1a to inject into the base layer 3 through the wide band gap layer 7. The electrons e₁ injected from the emitter layer 7 into the base layer 3 in Fig. 3 lose potential energy therebetween. The electrons e₁ gain kinetic energy in place of the loss of the potential energy so that the electrons e₁ change to hot electrons e₂. Thus, the speed of the electrons e₂ in the base layer 3 is increased, for example to 1 X 10⁸ cm sec., to provide a significantly higher switching speed as compared with the PBT of Fig. 1. Figure 7 shows an energy band diagram when V Figure 8 schematically shows an example of a circuit diagram using a PBT embodying the present invention. This is an inverter circuit. Figures 9A to 9D are cross sectional views explaining the process of producing a structure according to an embodiment of the present invention. As shown in Fig. 9A, on an n As shown in Fig. 9B, a tungsten layer having a thickness of about 200 Å 0.02 µm is formed on the n type Al As shown in Fig. 9C, on the obtained structure, an n type GaAs base layer 3 having a thickness of about 4000 Å 0.4 µm with a carrier concentration of 5 x 10¹⁶ cm ³ is formed by the MBE process. In place of the MBE process, a vapor phase epitaxy VPE process may be used. As shown in Fig. 9D, an n type GaAs collector layer 4 having a thickness of about 2000 Å 0.2 µm is formed on the n type GaAs base layer 3 by using MBE or VPE continuously. Finally, as shown in Fig. 2, respective AuGe An layers each having a thickness of about 4000 Å 0.4 µm are formed on the collector layer 4 and the emitter contact layer 1a to form a collector electrode 6 and an emitter electrode 5 respectively. It should be noted that the base electrode 2 connects to the emitter layer 7 and the base layer 3 through a Schottky junction or insulating layer 10. In an embodiment of the present invention, in place of the GaAs, In Further, in an embodiment of the present invention the order of the position of the emitter layer, the base layer, and the collector layer may be reversed. In the above mentioned embodiment, a single semiconductor device was explained. However, the single semiconductor device can be easily changed to an IC device. For example, as shown in Fig. 10, on a semi insulating GaAs substrate 1a each semiconductor layer such as an n type GaAs emitter layer 1 is formed. After that by a selective mesa etching process a part of the surface of the n type GaAs emitter layer 1 is exposed whereby an emitter electrode 5 may be taken out therefrom. Figure 11A is a plan view of a comb shaped base electrode 2. In Fig. 11A reference numeral 2a denotes a contact portion. Figure 11B is a plan view of a lattice shaped base electrode 2.