# Cosmid vectors.

## Abstract
Cosmid vectors, each comprising at least three cos of lambda phage or lambdoid phage in tandem, are used to prepare a gene bank by cosmid cloning.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A cosmid vector comprising at least three cos of phage or lambdoid phage in tandem. 2. A cosmid vector according to claim 1 which contains a respective cleavage site for each of two restriction endonucleases such that, on digestion of the cosmid vector with the said restriction endonucleases, the cosmid vector is cleaved into left and right arms wherein one arm comprises at least one cos and the other arm comprises two cos. 3. A cosmid vector according to claim 2, wherein te arms are of approximately equal length. 4. A cosmid vector according to claim 2 or 3, wherein the right arm comprises at least one cos and the left arm comprises two cos. 5. A cosmid vector according to any one of the preceding claims, which comprissthree cos. 6. A cosmid vector according to any one of the preceding claims, which comprises a marker gene coding for the expression of drug resistance or for a specific physiological function. 7. A cosmid vector according to claim 6, wherein the drug resistance is ampicillin resistance, tetracycline resistance, neomycin resistance or chloramphenicol resistance. 8. A cosmid vector according to claim 6, wherein the said physiological function is thymidine kinase TK activity, adenine phosphoribosyl transferase APRT activity, hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferase HGPRT activity, xanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferase XGPRT or gpt activity or dihydrofolic acid reductase dhfr activity. 9. A cosmid vector according to any one the preceding claims, which comprises a gene region having a replication function originating from ColEI. 10. A process for preparing a gene bank which process comprises i cleaving a cosmid vector as claimed in any one of the preceding claims into left and right arms by digesting the cosmid vector with two restriction endonucleases, one arm having at least one cos and the other having two cos ii ligating extraneous DNA fragments of 35 45 Kbp between respective pairs of left and right arms iii packaging the reconbinant DNA thus prepared as transducing phage particles by means of in vitro packaging and infecting phage lysogenic Escherichia coli with the said particles and iv after cloning, inducting an E. coli transformant to package the recombinait DNA contained therein as transducing phage particles. 11. A process according to claim 10, wherein the extraneous DNA is a DNA from a microorganism, animal or plant. 12. A drug resistant cosmid vector comprising two cos of X phage or lambdoid phage in tandem and containing a respective cleavage site for each of the two restriction endonucleases such that, on digestion of the cosmid vector with the said restriction endonucleases, the cosmid vector is cleaved into two arms each having one cos. 13. A microorganism transformed with a cosmid vector as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 9. 14. Use of a cosmid vector as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 9 in the preparation of a gene bank by cosmid cloning. 15. Escherichia coli HB101 pTcos Ap ori cm neo . 16. Escherichia coli HB101 pTcos Apr ori TK cmr neo 17. Escherichia coli HB101 pD cos cm .

## Description
DESCRIPTION COSMID VECTORS This invention relates to cosmid vectors and their use in the preparation of a gene bank. Many mammalian, including human, genes are known to have a size of over 20 kilo base pairs hereinafter designated as Kbp . Since the size of DNA which can be cloned in a conventionally used X phage is 20 Kbp, whole genes can not be cloned in a functional form in this way. However, DNA of a size of 35 45 Kbp can be cloned using a cosmid vector, a vector having a cohesive end site hereinafter designated as cos of X phage. Among the various types of vectors, it is by the use of cosmid vectors that the largest size of DNA can be cloned. However, the application of cosmid vectors has not been widespread due to the difficulty in preparing long genomic DNA fragments, a high background of vectors with no inserts and less effectiveness in preparation. Ish Horowicz and Burke have contrived to add directional qualities to cosmid vectors by utilising phosphatase, and succeeded in improving cloning efficiency as well as in reducing the background value of vectors with no insertsCD. Ish Horowicz and J.F. Burke, Nucleic Acids Res., 9, 2889 198171. The process for preparing a gene bank of genomic DNA according to the Ish Horowicz and Burke method can be illustrated as follows. A cosmid vector pJB 8, a conventional cosmid vector 5.44 Kbp in size having a restriction endonuclease BamHI, HindIII and Sail cleavage sites with oneX phage cos, is used. 1. pJB 8 is digested with HindIII to form linear DNA and the HindIII cleavage fragment is inactivated by treating with phosphatase. Cleavage with BamHI provides twoDNA fragments and the large fragment 5.4 Kbp containing cos is separated by means of agarose gel electrophoresis.The thus obtained DNA fragment 5.4 Kbp containing cos corresponds to a left arm of X phage. 2. pJB 8 is digested with SalI to prepare linear DNA and the SalI fragment is inactivated with phosphatase.Cleavage with BamHI provides two DN9 fragments and the small DNA fragment 2.34 kbp which contains cos is separated by means of agarose gel electrophoresis thereform.The thus obtained DNA fragment 2.34 Kbp containing cos corresponds to a right arm of X phage. 3. Human genomic DNA is partially digested with restriction endonuclease Sau3A or MboI to fractionate 35 40KbpDNA fragments. One such fragment is inserted between the left and right arms prepared in 1. and 2.by means of ligase T4 DNA ligase to prepare recombinant DNA. 4. The recombinant DNA is converted by means of in vitro packaging to transducing phage particles, which infectE. coli to prepare a human genomic DNA gene bank. The Ish Horowicz and Burke method has the following disadvantages First, the left and right arms must be prepared individually since pJB 8 has only one cos. Second, DNA fragments containing cos in the left and right arms must be separated individually by means of agarose gel electrophoresis. Third, since the length of pJB 8 left side is 5.4 Kbp and that of pJB 8 right side is 2.34 Kbp, i.e. different, the probablility of ligation on 35 45 Kbp genomic DNA is different and hence the ratio of the left and right arms should be carefully considered. Fourth, in the thus prepared gene bank, recombinantDNA can be replicated in E. coli cells as a plasmid and can be isolated as a covalently closed circular plasmidDNA ccc DNA from E. coli cells. However, a genomic DNA gene bank in the form of transducing phage particles can not be prepared from the said recombinant DNA. The present invention provides cosmid vectors having at least three cos of X phage or lambdoid phage in tandem.Thus, a cosmid vector of the invention comprises at least three cos. The cos are direct repeated sequence. Preferably, the cosmid vector contains a respective cleavage side for each of two restriction endonucleases such that,on digestion of the cosmid vector with the said restriction endonucleases, the cosmid vector is cleaved into left and right arms wherein one arm comprises at least one cos and the other arm comprises two cos. The right arm may therefore comprise at least one cos and the left arm comprise two cos. Preferably, the arms are of approximately equal length. A cosmid vector of the present invention may have three cos in tandem in a molecule. Digestion of the cosmid vector with two kinds of restriction endonuclease provides equimolar amounts of right and left arms of approximately equal length having one or two cos therein.Hence, individual preparation of the right and left arms is not required. Moreover, no agarose gel electrophoretic separation is necessary. Furthermore, since the length of the right and left arms is almost equal, ligation ratio in 35 45 Kbp genomic DNA by T4 DNA ligase is expected to be equal. Therefore, equimolar mixture of the right and left arms molecules kind of prepared by digestion with two restriction endonuclease, can directly be ligated with 35 45 Kbp genomic DNA to be expected converting half amount of recombinant DNA to transducing phage particles. Accordingly, using a vector of the present invention, 35 45 Kbp DNA fragment genomic DNA gene bank can simply and effectively be prepared.Further, since a vector of the present invention has three cos in tandem in a molecule, and hence a recombinant DNA thereof is converted to transducing phage particles by means of in vitro packaging to infect in E. coli, resulting recombinant DNA is replicated a plasmid DNA having two cos in E. coli. At this stage it is an extraneous DNA gene bank of a plasmid DNA, however in case that E. coli, in which A phage is lysogenized, is used as a host, lysogenized A phage enters lytic cycle by an induction such as heating or ultraviolet irradiation, thus components are expressedA phage in E. coli cells and finally E. coli is lysogenized to disperse out the A phage particles.Simultaneously, the recombinant DNA in the form of plasmid DNA having two cos in E. coli cells is introduced into a head of A phage, then transferred into transducing phage particles by means of in vitro packaging. According to the thus illu strata procedures, extraneous DNA gene bank as transducing pahge particles can be prepared. In a gene transformation of mammalian gene into cultured cells, a method using chromosome has advantages as compared with a method using plasmid DNA or genomic DNA as follows. 1 Effectiveness and frequency for DNA transformation are 10 to 100 times higher than as usual, and 2 Stable transformant clone can be obtained. Lewis, W.H.,Srinivasan, P.R., Stockoe, N. and Siminovitch, L., Somat.Cell. Genet., 6, 333 1980 . These facts may have correlations that DNA in chromosome is closely enveloped by chromation protein to construct chromatin structure, and so is defended from attacking by deoxyribonuclease DNase . Alternatively, constructing dense chromatin structure may have resulted easy incorporation into cells. However only chromosome itself in vitro can not be recombined the DNA and large amount of chromosome required for experimental use can not easily be prepared from cells. Referring to the structure of phage particles, DNA of A phage is enveloped densely with outer envelope protein, and this state resembles to chromosome DNA enveloped with protein. A method for preparing gene bank of A phage particles by recombinant DNA has been established. ishiura et al demonstrated transfer of HSV lTK gene n int Ltk cells using vector Chars 4A recombinant phage particles integrated with HSV lTK gene, and found that 1 Efficiency of gene integration is l0 5 and is higher at about one figure as compared with that of DNA itself, and is lower at one figure as compared with that of chromosome. and 2 Size of colony of transforming cell is larger than that obtained from DNA, and many of clones can be kept stable in non selective medium. Ishiura, M. et al., Mol. Cell. Biol., 2, 607 1982 . Substantial problem on gene bank prepared by Vector is that maximum size of DNA which can be cloned in vector is at maximum 20 Kbp, and hence if size of gene is larger ti a that, the said gene can not be cloned with functional form. in tandem A cosmid vector having three cos of the present invention has advantages that it can clone with 35 45 Kbp extraneous DNA and can preparegene bank with transducing phage particles. The present process can exhibit a great possibility for transforming gene in cultured cells. In Fig. 1, a novel cosmid vector of the present invention pTcos Apr ori cmr neor is illustrated. The pTcos Ap in tandem ori cmr neor consists of three cos which is are originated from cosmid vector pRH 44 or pLH 129 and has same direction Miwa and Matsubara, Gene, 20, 267 1982 , neomycin resistant gene neor originated from Tn903 Oka, Sugisaki and Takanami,J. Mol. Biol., 147, 217 1981 , chloramphenicol resistant gene cmr originated from pNT 31 Tomizawa and Itoh, Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci., U.S.A., 78, 6096 1981 , ampicillin resistant gene Apr originated from pBR 327 and origin of replication ori Soberon, Cavarrubias and Bolivar, Gene, 9, 287 1980 . Size of the said cosmid vector is 4.9 Kbp and is cleaved with restriction endonuclease Clal and BamHI at one point, respectively. A process for preparing gnomic DNA extraneous DNA bank using the said vector is illustrated as follows Fig. 2 . 1 A cosmid vector pTcos Apr ori cmr neor is cleaved with Clal to prepare linear DNA, then is treated with phosphatase to inactivate ClaI fragment. Further, the fragment is digested with BamHI to prepare right and left arms of the equal length having one or two cos, respectively. 2 Genomic DNA extraneous DNA is partially digested with Sau3A or MboI to prepare 35 45 Kbp DNA fragment. 3 Genomic DNA fragment 35 45 Kbp is inserted into between the left and right arms prepared in 1 hereinabove by means of T4 DNA ligase to prepare recombinantDNA. 4 The recombinant DNA is converted to transducing phage particles by means of in vitro packaging, which is infected into A phage lysogenic E. coli cells. 5 Since the said lysogenic DNA contains Apr, cmr and ori originated from vector, E. coli cells which include plasmid of recombinant DNA having two cos can be selectively grown by selection with ampicillin or chloramphenicol. 6 A transformant E. coli is subjected to induction such as heating or ultraviolet irradiation to transfer the lysogenic A phage into a lytic cycle, thereby the recombinantDNA having two cos can be converted to transducing phage pr ticles by means of in vivo packaging. The said transducing phage particles include the recombinant DNA comprising a cos, ori I ori and extraneous DNA. As illustrated, a genomic DNA extraneous DNA gene bank can be prepared as a transducing pahge particles. We have also prepared cosmid vector, pTcos Apr ori TK cmr neor which has specific marker for mammalian cells and yank is able to transfer the gene in mammalian cells Fig. 3 .The pTcos Apr ori TK cmr neor consists of three cos with identical direction originated from pRH 44 or pLH 129 , neor from Tn903, cm from pNT 31, Apr and ori from pBR 327 aYld TK gene from pTK 4. tishiura, M. et al., Mo. Cell. Biol.2, 607 1982 . Genomic gene bank can be prepared by the said cosmid vector as like the above mentioned pTcos Apr ori cmr neor. Namely, three cos in tandem is cleaved withClaI and BamHI to prepare equimolar amount of the right and left arms having one or two cos, respectively.The recombinant DNA can be prepared by inserting 35 45 Xbp genomic DNA in BamHI site thereof. The said recombinant DNA can be converted to transducing phage particles by means of in vitro packaging, then it can be transferred into E. coli cells, in which A phage is lysogenized, which can be selected by ampicillin or chloramphenicol treatment. Tj t e.resulted trnsformant E. coli is subjected to induction to transfer the recombinant DNA having two cos in transducing phage particles by means of in vivo packaging ,then the gene bank is prepared. Further since the said transducing phage particles have a marker gene TK , a judgment on tranfer of recombinant DNA originated from vector caX advantageously be made at a cultured ceil level, by checking a thymidine kinase TK activity at transferring a genomic gene bank cells to cultured cells The present invention is, therefore, the above illustrated novel cosmid vector and process for preparing a gene bank using the same. We have also prepared a cosmid vector, Fig. A . The pDcos cm consists of two cos in tandem originated from pRH 44 and pLH 129 , cmr from pNT 31, Apr and ori from pBR 322. The pDcos cmr was digested with two kinds of restriction endonuclease, BamHI, clal to right and left arms having one cos, respectively. The recombinant DNA can be prepared by inserting 35 45 kbp genomic DNA in BamHI site thereof. The said recombinantDNA can be converted to transducing phage particles by means of in vitro packing, then it canbe transferred into coli, which can be selected by ampicillin. At this stage it is an extraneous DNA gene bank of a plasmid DNA. Example of cos used in the present invention is orginated from A phage or lambdoid phage. The cos originated fromA phage is preferable. In order to prepare gene bank of transducing phage particles with cosmid vector of the present invention, it is sufficient to include three cos in tandem direction within a vector molecule, however the number of the cos more than three is not limited. A vector of the present invention is, at first, digested kinds of with two restriction endonucleases. Examples of a combination of the said restriction endonuclease are PvuII and BamHI,PvuII and II, ClaI and BamHI or ClaI and BglII. Other combinations thereof can be exist and are not limited. In order to check an insertion of DNA fragment originated from the vector , a selection by applying drug resistance can generally be performed.Therefore, vector of the present invention should preferably contain DNA fraqment which express druq resistance. Example of drug resistance is generally antibiotic resistance such as ampicillin resistance, tetracycline resistance, neomycin kanamycin resistance or chloramphenicol resistance. In pTcos Apr ori cmr neor and pTcos Ap ori TK cm neo ampicillin resistance gene, chlorampheniccl resistance gene and neomycin resistance gene exist therein. A pDcos c r h s ampicillin resistance gene, chloramphenicol resistance gene. Preparing a genomic DNA extraneous DNA gene bank using a vector of the present invention and transferring the gene into cultured mammalian cells, a DNA fragment, which express specific physiological function for determining an insertion of DNA fragment from the original vector, is preferably contained in the vector of the present invention.Examples of gene expressing specific physiological function are thymidine kinase TK gene Wigler, N., et al., Cell, 14, 725 1978 , adenine phosphoribosyltransferase APRT gene igler, N. et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci., U.S.A., 76, 1373 1979 , hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyltransferase HGPRT gene Graf, L.H. Jr., et al., Somat. Cell. Genet., 5, 1031 1979 and xanthine guanine phosphoribosyltransferase XGPRT or gpt gene IBerg, P. et al., Mol. Cell. Biol., 1, 449 1981 . The novel cosmid vector of the present invention pTcos Ap ori TR cm neorincludes TK gene. Further, a vector of the present invention preferably contains a gene fragment having replication function originated from ColEI. Examples of the extraneous DNA used in the present invention are DNA originated from microorganisms such as bacteria, fungi or yeast, higher animals and plants, and phages. Further, restriction endonuclease, ligase, or an enzyme which catalyses to prepare blunt end in each distal ofDNA frangment for ligasing each non complimentary end of DNA and ligase thereof can be commercially available, and application thereof have widely known. Molecular Cloning, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Maniatis, T. et al., 1982 . Preparing the geneomic DNA extraneous DNA gene bank using a vector of the present invention, specific gene, which can express useful substances, can effectively be found. Examples of the specific gene are DNA originated from microorganisms such as bacteria, fungi or yeast, higher animals and plants, or phages. Examples of useful substances are hormons, enzymes or enzymes for synthesis for various hormons, enzymes for synthesizing antibiotics and amino acids. Following examples illustrate the present invention but are not construed as limiting. Example 1, Construction and preparation of pTcosFr ori cr neor 1. Fig. 4A, 33 C a Construction and preapration of pHScos i Construction Cosmid vector pRH 44 10 pg in a reaction medium 100 l 150 mM NaC1, 6 mM Tris HCl buffer pH 7.9 , 6 MgC12, 100 g ml bovine serum albumin BSA was digested with restriction endonuclease BamHI 60 units New EnglandBiolabs for 2 hours. Reaction mixture was extracted with equal volume of water saturated phenol. Aqueous layer was concentrated with secondary butanol, added 0.1 vol. 3 M sodium twice tw ce vol. ethanol therein to precipitate DNA, which was washed with 95 ethanol, dried with vacum by water water suction pump.Dried precipitate was dissolved in aqueous solution 7 l, 1 g l hereinafter designates as 10t 0.lE consisting of 10 mM. Tris HCl buffer pH 8.0 and 0.1 rn EDTA. The DNA solution 1 p 1 g digested with BamHI in a reaction medium 25 yl 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.2 , 10 mAl MgSO4, 0.1 mM DTT, 50 g ml BSA, 80 M dATP, 80 N dCTP, 80 M dGTP and 80 M dTTP3 was reacted with Klenow enzyme 2 units Boehringer Mannheim at 220C for 30 minutes to prepare blunt end double strand DNA fragment from cohesive end complimentary double strand DNA fragment. Reaction mixture was treated at 650C for 10 minutes to denature Klenow enzyme. The DNA solution thereof 10 p1, 0.4 ug and SalI linker id pG G T C G A C C 3 2 g were ligated gated in a reaction medium 20 p1 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.4 , 10 mMMgCl2, 10 mM DTT, 1 mM spermidine, 1 mM ATP and 100 g mlBSA3 with T4 DNA ligase 6 units at 220C for 6 hours.Thereafter the reaction mixture was extracted with phenol to obtain precipitated DNA. The DNA precipitate was digested with restriction endonuclease SalI 1000 units Takara Shuzo Co. in a reaction medium solution 600 l 150 mM NaCl, 6 mM Tris HCl buffer pH 7.9 , 6 mM MgCl2, 6 mM DTT, 100 g ml BSA at 370C for 4 hours. Resulting reaction mixture was electrophoresed on preparative agarose gel at 10 mA for 12 hours. Digested DNA fragments can be observed by means of ethidium bromide stain and long wave ultraviolet irradiation. DNA was extracted with five volume of solution 0.5 M NH4 OAc, 1 mM EDTA pH 7.5 aq. saturated phenol 1 1 from the portion of the gels which contained the 3.89 Kbp DNA fragment comprising cos, ori and Apr . Eluate was concentrated with sec. butanol and 0.1 volume of 3 M sodium acetate and 2 volumes of ethanol were added thereto to precipitate DNA.The precipitate was incubated with T4 DNA ligase 6 units in a reaction medium 20 p1 50 mM Tris HCl buffer pH 7.4 , 10 mM MgCl2, 10 mM DTT, 1 mM spermidine, 1 mM ATP and 100 pg ml BSA at 12 C for 17.5 hours to close DNA fragment 3.89 Kbp comprising cos, ori and Ap , which was extracted with phenol. DNA was obtained as ethanol precipitate which was further dissolved in 0.1 M Tris HCl buffer pH 7.5 20 l . ii Transformation DNA solution thereof 10 p1 was mixed with competent cells of E. coli HB 101 100 pl logarithmic growth phase cells of E. coli HB 101 treated with 0.1 M CaCl2 solution at 0 40C for 15 minutes were resuspended in 0.1 N CaCl2 14 glycerol 1 10 volume of previous culture medium , and stored at 700C and incubated at 0 C for 10 minutes, subsequently at 37 C for 5 minutes to incorporate DNA into E. coli cells.L broth 1 Bacto tryptone, 0.5 yeast extract, 0.58 NaCl and 0.1 glucose 2 ml was added therein and reciprocally shake cultured at 370C for 1 hour. The cell suspension was spread on an L plate a plate added agar to 1 in L broth containing ampicillin 20 vg ml , and cultured at 370C for 24 48 hours to obtain ampicillin resistant clone. iii Small scale culture and preparation plasmid DNA Apr clone was grown ir L broth 2 ml, containing Ap 20 g ml at 370C for overnight with shaking. Cultured medium 1.5 ml in Eppendorf tube was centrifuged to colllect cells which were resuspended in the extract solution 88 sucrose, 0.5 Triton X 100, 50 mM EDTA pH 8.0 and 10 mM Tris HCl buffer pH 8 0.35 ml . Lysozyme solution 25 p1 10mg ml, 10 mM Tris HCl pH 8.0 was mixed therewith and stood the tube in boiling water for 40 seconds. Immediately the tube was centrifuged at 40C for 15 minutes at 21,000 r.p.m. to obtain supernatant solution which was treated with RNase A solution 20 mg ml, 10t 0.1E 0.5 l and incubated at 370C for 1 hour to decompose RNA.Reaction mixture was deproteinated with phenol extraction to obtain DNA as ethanol precipitate which was dissolved in 10t o.lE 20 v1 to obtain plasmidDNA solution. iv Specifying plasmid DNA The plasmid DNA 1 v1 or 2 p1 was digested with restriction endonuclease HindIII, SalI, PvuII and PstI and electrophoresed on 0.4 1.5 agarose gel 40 mM Tris HC1 buffer, 20 mM sodium acetate, 2 mM EDTA pH 8.15 10 mA, 12 24 hours . Digested DNA fragment can be detected by ethidium bromide stain and long wave ultraviolet irradiation. Restriction endonuclease map of plasmid DNA was illustrated to specify plasmid DNA of each clone. Then E. coli cells having a plasmid, pUScos, in which DNA fragment 0.31 Kbp betweenBamHI site and SalI site of pRH 44 was deleted and SalI linker was inserted therebetween, were obtained Fig. 4A . v Large scale culture and preparation of plasmid DNA coli cells obtained in iv hereinabove was reciplocally shake cultured in TYG P medium 1 Bacto tryptone, 0.1E yeast extract, 0.2E glucose, 0.1E NH4C1, 0.3E NaCl, 0.01E Na2SO4, 0.088 MgCl2,6H2O, 1.52E Na2HPO4 12H2O and 0.3 KH2PO4 1 lit. containing ampicillin 20 g ml at 370C.Chloramphenicol was added upto 100 g ml concentration at the time showing an absorbancy of culture medium at 600 nm being 1.0, further reciprocally shake cultured at 370C 15 hours. Cells were collected by centrifuge 6,000 r.p.m., 10 min. and resuspended in isotonic buffer solution 18 ml comprising 25 sucrose and 50 mM Tris HCl buffer pH 8.0 .Lysozyme solution 5 mg ml, 0.25 M Tris HCl buffer pH 8.0 3.6 ml was added therein, gently mixed, stood at 0 C for 5 minutes, added 0.25 M EDTA solution pH 8.0, 7.2 ml , again gently mixed and stood at 0 C for 5 minutes. Solution of 10 SDS 2.7 ml and 5 M NaCl 8.1 ml were added thereto, gently mixed, stood at 0 C for overnight and centrifuged 20,000 r.p.m. for 45 min. to obtain cleared lysate 39 ml .RNase solution 20 mg ml, lOt o.lB 20 p1 was added to the cleared lysate and incubated at 370C for 1 hour to decomposeRNA. Thereafter a mixture was subjected to phenol extraction for deproteinization, and gel filtered through Sepharose 2B. DNA ethanol precipitate was obtained from void fraction containing plasmid DNA and the DNA was subjected to equilibrium density gradient centrifugation 60,000 r.p.m., 12 hours in cesium chloride ethidium bromide solution 1MTris HCl buffer pH 8.0 0.375 ml, 0.25 M EDTA pH 8.0 C.30 ml, H2O 6.45 ml, CsCl 17.5 g and EtBr solution 4 mg ml 0.375 ml . According to this operation, covalently circular closed plasmid DNA ccc DNA can be detected, under long wave ultraviolet irradiation, as zonal pattern below the positions of fluorescent band of linear plasmid DNA and chromosome in the centrifugal tube. The ccc DNA fraction was collected, extracted with isopropanol saturated with aqueous CsCl and dialyzed against lOt o.lE 1 lit. after removal of ethidium bromide.The ccc DNA was precipitated by adding ethanol in the dialysate. Precipitate was dissolved in 10t o.lE 2 ml to prepare pHS cos plasmid DNA solution. b Construction and preparation of PHB cos A pHS cos 10 g in a reaction medium 400 p1 was digested with SalI 185 units at 370C for 2 hours. After deproteination with phenol extraction, precipitate was dis solved in 10t 0.lB 7 l p g l . The SalI digested DNA solution 1 l l pg in a reaction medium 25 pl was treated with Klenow enzyme 2 units at 22OC for 30 minutes to convert from cohesive end to blunt end. Klenow enzyme was denatured by heat treatment at 650C for 10 minutes. The said DNA solution 10 pl, 0.4 pg and BamHI linker d pC G G A T C C G 2 pg in a reaction medium 20 p1 were ligated by T4 DNA ligase 6 units at 220C for 6 hours. The reaction mixture 10 v1 in a reaction medium 50 p1 was incubated with T4 DNA ligase 15 units at 120C for 17.5 hours to close the above ligate. Then the reaction mixture was extracted with phenol and added ethanol therein to precipitate DNA which was dissolved in 0.1 M Tris HCl buffer pH 7.5, 20 p1 . The thus obtained DNA solution 10 p1 was subjected to transformation into E. coli cells HB 101 to obtain Apr clone. Checking the specificity of plasmid in the said clone, a plasmid wherein BamHI linker was inserted in SalI site within pHS cos in this case, SalI site was reconstructed within two distal BamHI site , designated as pHB cos in E. coli cells was obtained Fig. 4A . The thus obtained E. coli cells were grown in TYG P medium 1 lit. and isolated ccc DNA from the cells to prepare a plasmid DNA, pHB cos. c Construction and preparation of pCH cos A cosmid vector pLH 129 10 10 l in a reaction medium 100 p1 50 mM NaCl, 100 mM Tris HCl buffer pH 7.5 , 5 mMMgCl2, 100 5 ml BSA was digested with restriction endonuclease EcoRI 69 units Takara Shuzo Co. at 370C for 2 hours. Reaction mixture was extracted with phenol for deproteination, and added ethanol therein to precipitate DNA which was dissolved in 10t 0.1E 7 l 1 g l . A solution 1 p1 1 g of EcoRI digested. DNA in a reaction medium 25 p1 was incubated with Klenow enzyme 2 units at 220C for 30 minutes for converting cohesive end to blunt end thereof. Resulting reaction mixture was treated at 650C for 10 minutes for denaturation of Klenow enzyme. The obtained DNA solution 10 p1, 0.4 pg and ClaI linker id pC A T C G A T G 2 pg in a reaction medium 20 p1 were ligated each other by treating with T4 DNA ligase 6 units at 220C for 6 hours. Reaction mixture 10 p1 in a reaction medium 50 p1 was incubated with T4 DNA ligase 15 units at 120C for 17.5 hours to close DNA fragment. Resulted incubation mixture was extracted with phenol and added ethanol therein to precipitateDNA which was dissolved in 0.1 M Tris HCl buffer pH 7.5, 20 l . DNA solution 10 l was subjected to transformation in . coli cells HB 101 to obtain Apr clone. Checking the specificity of the said cloned plasmid DNA, E. coli containing pCH cos, a plasmid wherein Clal linker was inserted in EcoRI site within pLH 129 in this case EcoRI site was reconstructed in two distal ClaI sites Fig. 4A was obtained. After growing the said E. coli in TYG P medium 1 lit. , ccc DNA was isolated and purified from the cells to prepare plasmid DNA of pCH cos. d Constructionand preparation of pCH HB cos pD cos A pCH cos 20 pg in a reaction medium 200 p1 60 mM NaCl, 7 mM Tris HCl buffer pH 7.4 , 7 mM MgCl2, 6 mMDTT and 100 pg ml BSA was digested with restriction endonuclease HindIII 114 units New England Biolabs and PvuII 192 units Takara Shuzo Co. at 370C for 2 hours.Reaction mixture was electrophoresed on 0.8E preparative agarose gel. DNA fragment 2.5 Kbp containing cos, Apr and ori was extracted, then added ethanol therein to precipitateDNA which was dissolved in 10t o.lE 8.5 l 1 g l . On the other hand, pHB cos 20 pg in a reaction medium 20 p1 was digested with HindIII 114 units and PvuII 192 units at 370C for 2 hours. Reaction mixture was electrophoresed on 0.88 preparative agarose gel. Separated DNA fragment 1.6 Kbp containing cos was extracted. Ethanol was added in the extract to precipitate DNA which was dissolved in 10t 0.lE 6.0 p 1 pg pl DNA solution 1 l 1 g , a digested fragment withHindIII PvuII treatment, which contains cos, Apr and ori in pCH cos, prepared in the former hereinabove, and DNA solution 1 l 1 g , a digested fragment with HindIII PvuII treatment, which containes cos in pHB cos, prepared in the latter hereinabove, in a reaction medium 20 l were ligated by treating with T4 DNA ligase 6 units at 120C for 17.5 hours. Reaction mixture was extracted with phenol andDNA was obtained as ethanol precipitate, which was dissolved in 0.1 M Tris HCl buffer pH 7.5, 20 p1 . DNA solution 10 l was subjected to transformation into E. coli HB 101 to obtain Apr clone. Checking the specificity of plasmid DNA of the said clone, E. coli containing pDcos, a plasmid having two cos, Apr and ori Fig. 4A . E. coli was grown in TYG P medium 1 lit. , then cccDNA was isolated from cells and purified to prepare plasmidDNA of pDcos. e Constructionand preparation of pHC 79 cmr A cosmid vector pHC 79 Hohn and Collins, Gene, 11, 291 1980 10 pg in a reaction medium 100 l 50 mM NaCl, 6 mM Tris HCl buffer pH 7.9 , 6 mM MgCl2 and 100 pg ml BSA was digested with restriction endonuclease ClaI BoehringerMannheim at 370C for 2 hours. After deproteinization by phenol extraction, ethanol was added to precipitate DNA, which was dissolved in 10t 0.1E 7 pl 1 g vl . On the other hand, pNT 31 10 pg in a reaction medium 200 pl j100 mM NaCl, 10 mM Tris HCl buffer pH 8.4 , 6 mM MgCl2, 5 mM DTT and 100 g ml BSA was digested with restriction endonuclease TagI 40 units New England Biolabs at 65 C for 2 hours. A reaction mixture was electrophoresed on 0.8 preparative agarose gel. DNA fragment 0.79 Kbp containing Cmr was separated and purified, then added ethanol to precipitate DNA. The precipitate was dissolved in 10t 0.lB 3.0 l 1 pg pl . DNA solution 1 qpl l g , digested pHC 79 with ClaI and DNA solution 1 v 1 g , a TagI digested fragment of pNT 31 containing cmr, in a reaction medium 20 g were treated with T4 DNA ligase to ligate each other at 120C for 17.5 hours. Resulting mixture was extracted with phenol for deproteinization and DNA was precipitated by adding ethanol.Precipitate was dissolved in 0.1 M Tris HCl buffer pH 7.5 DNA solution 10 pl was subjected to transformation into E. coli cells HB 101 to obtain cmr and Apr clone.Checking the specificity of plasmid DNA of these clones, E.coli containing plasmid pHC 79 cmr wherein cmr coli containing plasmid was inserted into ClaI site within pHC 79 was obtained. coli was grown in TYG P medium 1 lit. , and ccc DNA was isolated from cells and purified to prepare plasmid DNA of pHC 79 cmr. f Constructionand preparation of pHC 79 cmr HindIII A plasmid pHC 79 cm 10 pg in a reaction medium 100 pl was digested with HindIII 35 units at 370C for 2 hours. After deproteinization with phenol extraction, ethanol was added to obtain precipitated DNA, which was dissolved in 10t 0.lE 7 pl 1 pg pl . The digested DNA solution 1 pl 1 pg in a reaction medium 25 pl was treated with Klenow enzyme 2 units at 220C for 30 minutes to convert cohesive end thereof to blunt end. Reaction mixture was heated at 650C for 10 minutes to denature Klenow enzyme. The thus obtained DNA sclution 10 pl 0.4 pg in a reaction medium 50 pl was treated with T4 DNA ligase 5 units at 120C for 17.5 hours to close the DNA fragment.After phenol extraction, ethanol was added to precipitateDNA. Precipitated DNA was dissolved in 0.1 X, Tris HCl buffer pH 7.5 20 p1 . The DNA solution 10 pl was subjected to transfor r mation into . coli cells HB 101 to obtain Apr and cm clone. Checking the specificity of plasmid DNA of these clones,E. coli containing plasmid pHC 79 cm A HindIII which defectsHindIII site within pHC 79 cmr. Fig. 4B . E. coli cells were grown in TYG P medium 1 lit. then ccc DNA was isolated from cells and purified to prepare plasmid DNA of pHC 79 cmr HindIII . g onstructionand preparation of pUC 8 cmr A pHC 79 cmr HindIII 20 p1 in a reaction medium 200 p1 50 mM NH4 2SO4, 20 raM Tris HCl pH 7.5 , 10 mMMgCl2 and 100 pg mlBSAj was digested with restriction enzymePstI 22 units, new England Biolabs at 370C for 2 hours.Further reaction mixture in a reaction medium 500 p1 was digested with BamHI 80 units at 370C for 2 hours and was electrophoresed on 0.8 preparative agarose gel, then DNA fragment 1.9 Kbp containing cm was extracted from the portion of the gel. DNA was precipitated by adding ethanol and the precipitate was dissolved in 10t 0.1B 4.0 p 1 pl pl . On the other hand, pUC 8 Jeffrey Vieira and JoachimMessing, Gene, 19, 259 1982 J 20 pg in a reaction medium 200 p1 was digested with PstI 60 units at 370C for 2 hours, further digested in a reaction medium 500 pl with BamHI 215 units at 370C for 2 hours. The digested DNA was electrophoresed on 0.8 preparative agarose gel. DNA fragment 2.7Kbp containing Apr and ori was extracted from the portion of the gel. Ethanol was added to the extract to precipitateDNA which was dissolved in 10t 0.1E 14.0 l l g l . DNA solution 1 p 1 g of PstI BamHI fragment containing cmr within pHC 79 cmr HindIII obtained in the former hereinabove and DNA solution 1 pl 1 pg of PstI BamHI fragment containing Apr and ori within pUC 8 obtained in the latter hereinabove in a reaction medium 20 pl were ligated each other with T4 DNA ligase 6 units at 120C for 17.5 hours. Thereafter the reaction mixture was extracted ith phenol and ethanol was added therein to precipitate DNA. The thus obtained DNA was dissolved in 0.1 M Tris HCl buffer pH 7.5, 20 pl . The said DNA solution 10 p1 was subjected to transformation into E. coli cells HB 101 to obtain cmr and Apr clone. Checking the specificity of these clones, E. coli containing plasmid pUC 8 cmr having Apr, ori and cmr. Fig. 4B . coli was grown in TYG P medium 1 lit. and cccDNA was isolated from the cultured cells then purified to prepare plasmid DNA of pUC 8 cm h Constructionand preparation of pUC 8 cmra EcoRI PstI r pUC 8 cmr 20 pg in a reaction medium 200 p1 was partially digested with EcoRI 60 units at 370C for 30 min.Digestate was extracted with phenol to deproteinate and added ethanol therein to obtain precipitated DNA. DNA precipitate was digested in a reaction medium 200 v1 with PstI 35 units at 370C for 2 hours. Again phenol extraction and ethanol precipitation were performed and precipitated DNA was dissolved in 10t 0.lE 10 p 1 g pl . DNA solution 1.5 1.5 g was treated in a reacion medium 30 p1 33 mM Tris acetate buffer pH 7.9 , 66 mM potassium acetate, 10 mM MgC12, 0.5 mwA DTT, 100 g ml BSA, 0.1 mM dATP, 0.1 mM dCTP, 0.1 mM dGTP and 0.1 mM dTTP with T4 DNA polymerase 5 units, P.L. Co. at 370C for 15 minutes for conversion of cohesive end thereof to blunt end, and was electrophoresed on 0.8 preparative agarose gel.DNA fragment 3.8 Kbp containing Apr, ori and cmr was extracted from the portion of the gel, then DNA was obtained by ethanol precipitation. Precipitated DNA was ligated in a reaction medium 50 p1 with T4 DNA ligase 15 units at 120C for 17.5 hours to close DNA fragment. After phenol extraction and ethanol precipitation, precipitated DNA was dissolved in 0.1 M TrisHC1 buffer pH 7.5, 20 pi . DNA solution 10 p1 was subjected to transformation into E. coli HB 101 to obtain Apr and cmr clone. Checking the specificity of plasmid DNA in these clones, E. coli having plasmid pUC 8 cmr EcoRI PstI which deleted DNA fragment 0.75 Kbp between EcoRI site and PstI site within pUC 8 cmr. Fig. 4B . E. coli cells were grown in TYG P medium 1 lit. and ccc DNA was isolated from the cells, then purified to obtain plasmid DNA, pUC 8 cmr t EcoRI PstI . i Constructionand preparation of pUC 8 cmrE EcoRI PstI ss BamHI pUC 8 cmra. EcoRI Pstl 10 pg was digested in a reaction medium 100 p1 with BamHI 150 units at 370C for 2 hours.After subjecting the reaction mixture to phenol extraction and ethanol preciDitation, precipitated DNA was dissolved in 10t 0.lB 7 p1 1 pg pl The BamHI digested DNA solution 1 pl 1 pg was treated in a reaction medium 25 p1 with Klenow enzyme 2 units at 220C for 30 minutes for converting cohesive end thereof to blunt end. Resulting reaction mixture was heated at 650C for 10 minutes to denature Klenow enzyme. Reaction mixture 10 p1 was treated in a reaction medium 50 p1 with T4 DNA ligase 15 units at 120c for 17.5 hours to closeDNA fragment. After subjecting to phenol extraction and ethanol precipitation, precipitated DNA was dissolved in TrisHC1 buffer pH 7.5, 20 p1 . DNA solution 10 p1 was subjected to transformation into E. coli cells HB 101 to obtain Apr and cm clone. ecking the specificity of plasmid DNA in these clones, E. coli having plasmid pUC 8 cm A EcoRI PstI A Bam I which defects BamHI site within pUC 8 cm A EcoRI PstI was obtained Fig. 4B . E. coli was grown in TYG P medium 1 lit. , and cccDNA was separated from cells to prepare plasmid DNA pUC 8 cm ss EcoRI PstI A BamHI . Construciion and preparation of j pUC 8 cm A EcoRI PstI a BamHI H1ndIII pUC 8 cmr EcoRI PstI BamHI 100 pq was diqested in a reaction medium 100 p1 20 mM KC1, 5 mM Tris HCl buffer pH 8.0 , 6 mM gC12, 6 mM DTT, 100 pg ml BSA witch restriction endonuclease SmaI 125 units, ew England Biolabs at 370C blunt end . Reaction mixture was deproteinized by phenol extraction and DNA was precipitated by adding ethanol.Precipitate was dissolved in 10t 0.1B 7 p1 1 g l . The DNA solution 0.4 pl 0.4 pg and HindIII linker d pC A A G C T T G 2 pg were logated with T4DNA ligase 6 units at 220C for 6 hours. The said reaction mixture 10 l was treated in a reaction medium 50 l with T4 DNA ligase 15 units at 120C for 17.5 hours to close the molecule. After phenol extraction,DNA was obtained as ethanol precipitation and the precipitate was dissolved in 0.1 M Tris HCl buffer pH 7.5, 20 v DNA solution was subjected to transformation intoE. coli HB 101 to obtain Apr and cmr clone. Checkinq the specificity of these clones, E. coli having plasmid pUC 8 cm A EcoRI PstI A BamHI HindIII in which HindIII linker was inserted into SmaI site of pUC 8 cmr EcoRI PstI d BamHI Fig. 4A and Fig. 4B . E. coli was grown in TYG P medium 1 lit. and isolated ccc DNA from cells to purify pUC 8 cm A EcoRI PstI E BamHI HindIII plasmid DNA. k Construction and preparation of pDcos cm A pDcos 10 pg was digested in a reaction mixture 100 p1 with HindlIl 60 units at 370C for 2 hours. After deproteinization by phenol extraction, ethanol precipitatedDNA was obtained and was dissolved in lOt O.lE 7 pl l vg vl . On the other hand, pUC 8 cmrE EcoRI PstI A BamHI HindIII 20 pg was digested in a reaction mixture 200 pl withHindIII 2 5 units at 370C for 2 hours. Digestate was electrophoresed on 0.8 agarose gel to separate DNA fragment 1.15 Kbp containing cmr which was obtained as ethanol precipitate.Precipitate was dissolved in lOt O.lE 4.0 pl 1 pg pl . DNA solution 1 l 1 pg in which pDcos was digested with HindIII and DNA solution consisting of HindIII fragment cmr. r which contain cmr in pUC 8 cmrE E EcoRI PstI BamHI HindIII in a reaction medium 20 p1 were ligated to join each other with T4 DNA ligase 6 units at 120C for 17.5 hours. Reaction mixture was deproteinized by phenol extraction, and DNA was precipitated by adding ethanol. Precipitated DNA was dissolved in 0.1 M Tris Hcl buffer pE 7.5, 20 p1 . DNA solution 10 l was subjected to transformation into E. coli HB 101 cells to obtain Apr and cmr clone.Checking the specificity of these clones, E. coli containing plasmid pDcos cmr having two cos, Apr, ori and cmr was obtained. E. coli cells were grown in TYG P medium 1 lit. and isolated ccc DNA from cells to prepare plasmid DNA of pDcos cm 1 Construction and production of pHCcos A pRH 44 10 pg was digested in a reaction mixture 100 p with PvuIII 23 units at 370C for 2 hours. Further reaction mixture was digested in a reaction medium 250 p1 h BamHI 70 units at 370C for 2 hours. Digestate was electrophoresed on 0.8 agarose gel to separate DNA fragment 2.48 Kbp containing cos, Apr and ori. DNA was precipitated by adding ethanol and was dissolved in lOt O.lE 4.0 p1 1 g l . DNA solution 1 p 1 g was treated in a reaction medium 25 p1 with Klenow enzyme 2 units at 220C for 30 minutes to convert cohesive end to blunt end. Reaction mixture was treated at 65DC for 10 minutes to denature Klenow enzyme. The DNA solution 1C p1 0.4 pg and Clal linker d pC A T C G A T G 2 pg were ligated to join each other in a reaction medium with T4 DNA ligase 6 units at 220C for 6 hours. Reaction mixture 10 p1 was treated in a reaction medium 50 pl with T4 DNA ligase 15 units at 120C for 17.5 hours to close molecule. After phenol extraction, DNA was precipitated by adding ethanol and was dissolved in 0.1 N Tris HCl buffer pH 7.5 20 pl . Then DNA solution 10 pl was subjecting to transfor mation into E. coli cells HB101 to obtain Apr clone.Checking the specificity of plasmid DNA in these clones, coli having plasmid pHCcos which defected DNA fragment 1.72 Kbp between PvuII site and BamHI site in pRH 4Z and inserted Clal linker therein Fig. 4C . E. coli was grown in TYG P medium 1 lit. and cccDNA was isolated from cells to prepare plasmid DNA of pHCcos. m onstructionand preparation of pssglIICcos A pHCcos 10 pg was digested in a reaction medium 100 l with HindIII 100 units at 370C for 2 hours. After deproteinization by phenol extraction, DNA was precipitated by adding ethanol. Precipitated DNA was dissolved in lOt O.lE 7 X 1 pg was treated in a reaction medium 25 l withKlenow enzyme 2 units at 220C for 30 minutes to convert cohesive end to blunt end. Reaction mixture was heated at 650C for 10 minutes to denature Klenow enzyme. The DNA solution 10 l 0.4 pg and BglII linker d pC A G A T C T G 2 pg were ligated to join each other by treating with T4 DNA ligase 6 units at 220C for 6 hours. The reaction mixture 10 v1 was treated in a reaction medium 50 l with T4 DNA ligase 15 units at 120C for 17.5 hours to close the molecule. After phenol extraction, ethanol was added to precipitate DNA whiCh was dissolved in 0.1 M Tris HCl buffer pH 7.5 20 pl . The thus preparedDNA solution was subjected to transformation into E. coli HB 101 to obtain Apr clone. Checking the spectificity of plasmid DNA in these clones, E. coli having plasmid pBglIICcos, in which BglII linker was inserted in HindIII site of pHCcos was obtained. Fig. 4C . E. coli was grown in TYG P medium 1 lit. , then cccDNA was isolated from cells to prepare plasmid DNA pBglIICcos. n Construction and preparation of pBR BamHI a A pBR 327 10 pc was digested in a reaction medium 100 l 60 m2 NaCl, 6 mM Tris HCl buffer pH 8.0 , 10 mMMgCl2, 6mNDTT and 100 pg ml BSA with restriction endonuclease AvaI 55 units at 370C for 2 hours. After deproteinization with phenol extraction, DNA was obtained by adding ethanol, and was dissolved in 10t 0.1E 7 l 1 pg l .DNA solution 1 l 1 p , which was digested with AvaI, was treated in a reaction medium 25 p1 with Klenow enzyme 2 units at 220C for 30 minutes for conversion of cohesive end thereof to blunt end. Reaction mixture was heated at 650C for 10 minutes te denature Klenow enzyme. The thus obtained DNA solution 10 p1, 0.4 g andBamHI linker d pC G G A T C C G 2 pg were ligated to join each other in a reaction medium 20 p1 with T4 DAN ligase 6 units at 220C for 6 hours. Thereafter phenol extraction was taken and DNA was obtained by adding ethanol. The thus obtained DNA precipitate was digested in a reaction medium 600 v1 with BamHI 1,000 units at 370C for 4 hours, and electrophoresed on 0.8 preparative agarose gel to separate DNA fragment 2.22 bp containing Apr and ori, then DNA was obtained by ethanol precipitation. The said DNA precipitate in a reaction medium 20 p1 was treated with T4 DNA ligase 6 units at 120C for 17.5 hours to close the molecule, then phenol extraction was taken and DNA was obtained by ethanol precipitation. PrecipitatedDNA was dissolved in 0.1 X Tris HC1 buffer pH 7.5, 20 1 . The thus obtained DNA solution 10 pl was subjected to transformation into E. coli BB 101 cells to obtain Apr clone. Checking the specificity of plasmid DNA of these clones,E. coli containing plasmid pBR 327 BamHIa , in which DNA fragment 1.05 Kbp between BamHI site and AvaI site in pBR 327 was defected and BamHI linker was inserted therein, was obtained. The said E. coli was grown in TYG P medium 1 lit. and ccc DNA was separated from cells to prepare palsmid DNA pBR 327BamHIa . o Construction and preparation of pBR 327 BalIICcos A pBgIIICcos 20 pg was digested in a reaction medium 200 pl with PstI 65 units at 370C for 2 hours, and was further digested in a reaction medium 500 pl with ClaI 77 units at 370C for 2 hours. Reaction mixture was electrophoresed on 0.8 agarose gel to separate DNA fragment 0.94Kbp containing cos. DNA was precipitated by adding ethanol and the precipitate was dissolved in lOt O.lE 50 pl 1 g vl . On the other hand, FBR 3273amH1 20 pg was digested in a reaction medium 200 pl with PstI 70 units at 370C for 2 hours, and was further digested in a reaction medium 500 pl with ClaI 85 units at 370C for 2 hours. Reaction mixture was electrophoresed on 0.8E preparative agarose gel to separate DNA fragment 1.45 Kbp containing ori. DNA was precipitated by adding ethanol and the precipitate was dissolved in lOt lOE 9.0 l 1 pg 1 . The DNA solution l pl 1 pg of PstI ClaI DNA fragment containing cos of pBglIICcos and a solution 1 pl 1 pg ofPstI ClaI DNA fragment containing ori of pBR 327BamHIa a were ligated to join each other in a reacion medium 20 v1 withT4 DNA ligase 6 units at 120C for 17.5 hours. Thereafter phenol extraction was taken and DNA was obtained as ethanol precipitate which was dissolved in Tris HCl buffer pH 7.5, 20 pl The DNA solution 10 pl was subjected to transforma tion into E. coli HB 101 cells to obtain Apr clone. Checking the specificity of plasmid DNA of these clones, E. ccli having a plasmid, pBR 327 BlcIICcos containing cos, Apr and ori was obtained. The E. coli was grown in TYG P medium 1 lit. and ccc DNA was isolated from cells to prepare plasmid DNA pBR327 IIICcos. p Construction and preparation of pTcos Apr ori cmr A pDcos cmr 20 pg was digested in a reaction medium 200 p1 with ClaI 37 units at 370C for 2 hours, and resulting digestate was further digested in a reaction medium 500 l with BamHI 110 units at 370C for 2 hours. Reaction mixture was electrophoresed on 0.8t agarose gel to separateDNA fragment 1.5 Kbp containing two cos and cmr.DNA was obtained by ethanol precipitation which was dissolved in 10t 0.lB 4.0 pl 1 pg pl On the other hand, pBR 327 BgIIICcos 20 pg was digested in a reaction medium 200 v1 with ClaI 80 units at 37 C for 2 hours, and was further digested in a reaction medium 500 p1 with BamHI 240 units at 370C for 2 hours.DNA fragment 2.0 Kbp containing cos, Ap and ori was electrophoresed on 0.8 preparative agarose gel. Extracted DNA was precipitated by adding ethanol and the precipitate was dissolved in lOt O.lE 12 l 1 g l . DNA solution 1 l 1 pg of ClaI BamHI fragment containing two cos and cm in pDcos cm and DNA solution 1 l 1 pg of ClaI BamHT fragment containing cos, Arp and ori in pBR 327 BgIIICcos were ligated to join each other with T4 DNA ligase 6 units in a reaction medium 20 l at 120C for 17.5 hours. Phenol extraction for deproteination and ethanol precipitation provided a DNA precipitate, which was dissolved in 0.1 M Tris HCl buffer pH 7.5, 20 l . The thus obtained DNA solution 10 l was subjected to transformation into E. coli HB 101 cells to obtain Apr cmr clone. Checking the specificity of plasmid DNA in these clones, E. coli containing plasmid pTcos Apr ori cmr having three cos, Ap , ori and cmr Fig. 4 . The said E. coli was grown in TYG P medium 1 lit. , and ccc DNA was separated from cells to prepare pTcos Apr ori cmr plasmid DNA. g ConstructiorJand preparation of pSVO10 neor A pAO43 Oka, Sugisaki and Takanami, J. Mol. biol., 147, 214 1981 200 g was digested in a reaction medium 200 p1 60 mM NaCl, 6 mM Tris HCl buffer pH 8.01 , 10 mM, MgCl2, 6 mM DTT, 100 g ml BSA with restriction endonucleaseAvaII New England Biolabs at 370C for 2 hours. Reaction mixture was electrophoresed on 0.88 preparative agarose gel to separate DNA fragment 1.24 Kbp containing neor . DA was obtained by adding ethanol and the precipitate was dissolved in 10t 0.lB 5 pg 1 pg pl . The said DNA solution 2 p 2 g was treated in a reaction medium 50 p1 with Klenow enzyme 4 units at 22 C for 30 minutes for conversion of cohesive end thereof to blunt end. After deproteination by phenol extracion, DNA was precipitated by adding ethanol. Precipitated DNA was dissolved in lOt O.lE 1.5 l 1 g pl . On the other hand, pSVO10 affinity plasmid of pSVGl Tjan, R. et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci., U.S.A., 77, 6491 91981 which has polylinker originated from nVX Brainseed,Nucleic Acids Res., 11, 2427 1983 10 pg was digested in a reaction medium 100 p1 with BamHI 129 units at 370C for 2 hours. Reaction mixture was deproteinized by phenol extraction and DNA was obtained by ethanol precipitation.Precipitate was dissolved in 10t 0.lB 7 pl 1 pg l . Dna solution 2 l 2 g was treated in a reaction medium 50 p1 with Klenow enzyme 4 units at 220C for 30 minutes to convert cohesive end thereof to blunt end. After phenol extraction for deproteination, DNA was obained by ethanol precipitation and was dissolved in lOt O.lE 1.5 a1 1 g l . DNA solution 1 pl 1 g , in which DNA fragment containing neo in pA043 was treated with Klenow enzyme, and the DNA solution 1 p1 1 g , which was prepared byKlenow enzyme treatment after BamHI digestion of pSVO10, were ligated to join with T4 DNA ligase 6 units at 120C for 17.5 hours. Thereafter phenol extraction and ethanol precipitation were taken to obtain precipitated DNA which was dissolved inTris HCl buffer pH 7.5, 20 pl . The said DNA solution 10 p1 was subjected to transformation into E. coli HB 101 to obtain Apr and Kmr neor clone. Checking the specificity of the plasmid in these clones, E. coli having plasmid pSV0l0 neor r. rE. coli having plasmid pSVO10 neor in which neo was inserted in BamHI site of pSVO10 Fig. 4A . E. coli was grown in TYG P medium and ccc DNA was isolated from cells to prepare plasmid DNA ot pSVO10 neor r Construction and preparation of pTcos Apr ori cmr neo A pTcos Ap ori cmr 10 pg was partially digested in a reaction medium 100 pl with EcoRI 27 units at 370C for 30 minutes. After deproteinization by phenol extraction,DNA was obtained by ethanol precipitation. Precipitated DNA was dissolved in lOt O.1E 7 l 1 g l . On the other hand, pSVO10 neor 20 pg was digested in a reaction medium 200 l with EcoRI 325 units at 370C for 2 hours. DNA fragment 1.3 Kbp containing neor was separated by electrophoresis on 0.88 preparative agarose gel.DNA was obtained by ethanol precipitation and was dissolved in 10t 0.1E 5.0 p 1 g l . DNA solution 1 l g , which was obtained by partially digestion of pTcos Apr ori cmr with IcoRI, and DNA solution 1 l l g of EcoRI fragment containing neor of pSVO10 neo , were ligated to join each other with T4 DNA ligase 6 units at 12 C for 17.5 hours. Thereafter phenol extraction was taken and to obtain DNA by ethanol precipita tion, then precipitate was dissolved in Tris HCl buffer pH 7.5, 20 p1 . The thus prepared DNA solution was subjected to transformation into E. coli HB 101 cells and Apr, cmr and Kmr neor clone was obtained. Checking the specificitR,of plasmid DNA in these clones, E. coli having plasmid pTcos Apr ori cmr neor, in which neor was inserted in EcoRI site of pTcos Apr ori cmr, was obtained. Fig. 1, Fig. 4A . This strain of E. coli has been deposited in Fermen tation Research Institute, Agency of Industrial Science and Technology, M.I.T.I., Japan as depostion No. FERMi P 7888. E. coli strain was grown in TYG P medium 1 lit. and ccc DNA was isolated from cells to prepare plasmid DNA pTcos Apr ori cmr neor. Example 2. Construction and prepartion of pfcos Ap ori TK cmr neor TKr a Construction and preparation of pTK 4 Bam A pTK 4 Ishiura, M. et al. ol. Cell. Biol., 2, 607 1982 3 10 pg was partially digested in a reaction mixture 100 p1 with PvuII 3.0 units at 370C for 30 minutes. Reaction mixture was electrophoresed on 0.8E preparative agarose gel to separate 6.43 Kbp DNA fragment which was preci pitated by adding ethanol. Precipitated DNA was dissolved in 10t 0.lE 3 W 1 pg pl . The thus prepared DNA solution 0.4 pl 0.4 pg and BamHI linker d pC G G A T C C G 2 pg were ligated to join each other in a reaction medium 20 p1 with T4 DNA ligase 6 units at 220C for 6 hours. The resulting reaction mixture 10 pl was treated in a reaction medium 50 p1 with T4 DNA ligase 15 units at 12 C for 17.5 hours to close the molecule. Then reaction mixture was extracted with phenol and resulted DNA was precipitated by adding ethanol. Precipitate was dissolved in 0.1 M Tris HCl buffer pH 7.5, 20 p1 . The resulted DNA solution.. 10 p1 was subjected to transformation into E. coli HB 101 cells to obtain Apr and Tc r clone. Checking the specificity of the plasmid in these clones, E. coli having plasmid pTK 4 BamHI in which BamHI linker was inserted in PvuII site between ori and TK in pTK 4, was obtained. Fig. 5 E. coli was grown in TYG P medium 1 lit. and cccDNA was separated fromcells to prepare pTK 4 BamHI plasmidDNA. b Construction and preparation of pTK 4 BamHI Bam. A pTK 4 BamHI 10 pg was limitedly digested in a reaction medium 100 p1 with BamHI 9 units at 370C for 30 minutes. Reaction mixture was extracted with phenol and added ethanol therein to precipitate DNA. The ethanol precipitated DNA was digested in a reaction medium 100 p1 with PvuII 5 units at 370C for 2 hours, then the digestate was extracted with phenol and added ethanol therein to precipitate DNA, which was dissolved in 10t 0.1E 3 p 1 g vl . The thus obtained reaction mixture was limitedly digested with BamHI and further with PvuII. The DNA solution 1 l 1 pg was reacted in a reaction medium 25 l withKlenow enzyme at 220C for conversion of cohesive end thereof to blunt end. Resulting reaction mixture was electrophoresed on 0.8 preparative agarose gel to separated DNA fragment 4.67 Kbp containing ori, Apr and TK. DNA was obtained by adding ethanol. The thus obtained precipitated DNA was religated withT4 DNA ligase 6 units in a reaction mixture 20 pl at 120C for 17.5 hours to join two distal BamHI sites for closing.Resulting reaction mixture was extracted with phenol and added ethanol to precipitate DNA which was dissolved in 0.1 M TrisHC1 buffer pH 7.5, 20 p1 . The said DNA solution 10 pl was subjected to transformation into E. coli HB 101 cells to obtain Apr and Tcr clone. Checking the specificity of plasmid DNA in these clones, E. coli having plasmid pTK 4 BamHI BamHI which defectDNA fragment 1.76 Kbp between PvuII site and EAmHI site on Tcr in pTK 4 BamHI. Fig. 5 The thus prepared E. coli was grown in TYG P medium and ccc DNA was separated from cells to prepare plasmid DNA of pTK 4 BamHI BamHI. CqnsrucWion and preparption r r of pTcos Ap ori TK cm neo 2 EamHI A pTcos Apr ori cm neor 10 pg was digested in a reaction medium 100 pl with BamHI 60 units at 370C for 2 hours. Digestate was extracted with phenol for deproteination and added ethanol therein to precipitate DNA which was dissolved in 10t 0.1E 7 l g l . On the other hand, pTK 4 BamHI BamHI 20 pg was digested in a reaction medium 200 p1 with BamHI 240 units at 370C for 2 hours. Resulting reaction mixture was electro phoresed on 0.8 preparative agarose gel to separate DNA fragment 2.0 Kbp containing TK, then ethanol was added therein to precipitate DNA which was dissolved in lOt O.lE 6.0 p 1 o pl . DNA solution 1 l 1 pg which was obtained by digestion of pTcos Apr ori cmr neo with BamHI and BamHIDNA fragment solution 1 v 1 g containing TK in pTK 4 BamHI BamHI were ligated with T4 DNA ligase 6 units at 120C for 17.5 hours. Resulting solution was extracted with phenol and added ethanol to precipitate DNA which was dissolved in 0.1 M Tris HCl buffer pH 7.5, 20 l . The DNA solution 10 pl was subjected to transforma tion into E. coli HB 101 cells to obtain Apr r r tion into E. coli HB 101 cells to obtain Apr, cmr and Km neo clone. Checking the specificity of plasmid DNA in these clones, coli having plasmid pTcos Apr ori TK cmr neor 2BamHI in r r r which TK was inserted in BamHI site of pTcos Ap ori cm neo The said E. coli was grown in TYG P medium 1 lit. and ccc DNA was separated from cells to prepare plasmid DNA pTcos Apr ori TK cm neo 2 BamHI . Construction and DreDapati0n r d  of pTc os an orl TK cm neo ApTcos Ap ori TK cm neor 2 BamHI 10 pg was partially digested in a reaction medium 100 p1 with BamHI 14 units at 370C for 30 minutes. Reaction mixture was extracted with phenol for deproteination and ethanol was added therein to precipitate DNA. Precipitate was dissolved in lOt O.lE 7 p g l . DNA solution 1 p 1 g which was obtained by partial digestion with BamHI, was treated in a reaction medium 25 v1 with Klenow enzyme 2 units at 220C for 30 minutes for conversion of cohesive end thereof to blunt end. Resulting DNA was electrophoresed on G.88 preparative agarose gel to r separate DNA fragment 6.93 Kbp containing three cos, Apr, ori, TK, cmr and neor and added ethanol therein to precipitate DNA. The precipitated DNA was religated in a reaction medium 20 p1 with T4 DNA ligase 6 units at 12 C for 17.5 hours to close the molecule. Resulted solution was extracted with phenol and ethanol was added therein to precipitate DNA which was dissolved in 0.1 M Tris HCl buffer pH 7.5, 20 pl . The thus prepared DNA solution 10 p1 was subjected to transformation into B. coli HB 101 cells to obtain Apr, cmr and Kmr neor clone. Checking the specificity of plasmidDNA in these clones, E. coli having plasmid pTcos Apr ori TK cmr neor which defected BamHI site between cmr and TK in pTcosApr ori TK cmr neor 2BamHI , was obtained. Fig. 3 and 5 . The said E. coli strain was deposited in FermentationResearch Institute, Agency of Industrial Technology and Science, M.I.T.I., Japan, as permanent culture collection FRAIL P 7887. The said E. coli was grown in TYG P medium 1 lit. and ccc DNA was separated from cells to prepare plasmid ONA of pTcos Apr ori TK cmr neor.Example 3. Preparation of gene bank for genomic DNA extraneous DNA with pTcos Apr ori cmr neor a Preparation of high molecular genomic DNA Mouse L cell LtK HSV lTK , in which a recombilant DNA of thymidine kinase TK of herpes symplex virus type I ESV 1 having base arrangement of pBR 322 was inserted therein, was cultured in eagle MEM added with 10 calf serum to prepare confluent monolayers 100 mm plate 9 plates, 10 cells plate , and washed twice with PBS 137 mM NaCl, 3 mM KCl, 8 mM Na2HP04, 1 mM KH2PO4 . Solubilizer 100 g ml Proteinase K, 0.5 SDS, 150 rn NaCl, 10 mM EDTA, 10 mM Tris HCl buffer pH 7.5 1.0 ml was added into a plate 1.0 ml plate to solubilize at 650C for 15 30 minutes.The solubilized mixture 7as trans ferred to 50 1 centrifugal tube, further incubated at 370C for overnight, and during the incubation Proteinase K 100 g ml was added therein. Equal volume of phenol saturated withTris buffer was added therein to gently extract the solubilizate.Aqueous layer was dialysed for four times against dialysis buffer 3 lit. consisting of 50 mM Tris HCl buffer pH 8.0 , 10 mAl EDTA and 10 mM NaCl. Dialysate was treated with adding 50 g ml DNase free RNase A at 370C for 3 hours to decomposeRNA. Resulted solution was extracted twice with equal volume of a mixture of phenol and chloroform, and aqueous layer was dialysed for 9 times against aqueous solution TE, 3 lit. comprising 10 mM Tris hCl pH 8.0 and 1mM EDTA to obtain pruified DNA solution 50 ml . Absorbancy optical density, OD of the DNA solution at 260 nm and 280 nm in 10 times dilution were 0.667 and 0.363 OD280 OD260 0.544 , respectively. Concentration of DNA were 0.667 X 0.050 pg lOD X 10 0.334 pg pl. b Preparation of 35 45 Kbp genomic DNA Purified genomic DNA solution 5.98 ml, 2 mg obtained hereinabove was partiall digested in a reaction medium 29.96 ml 50 mM NaCl1 10 mM Tris HCl buffer pH 7.5 , 10 mM MgC12 and 100 g ml BSA with Sau3A 15.6 units New EnglandBiolabs at 370C for 1 hour. 0.5 M EDTA pH 8.0 solution 1.3 ml was added therein and gently extracted twice with equal volume of Tris HCl buffer saturated phenol. Aqueous layer was concentrated with sec. butanol upto 10 ml volume, then added 3.0 M sodium acetate 1.1 ml and ethanol 20 ml thereto, and added ethanol to precipitate genomic DNA which was washed with 70 ethanol.The ethanol precipitate was dried by means of section pump and the pellet was dissolved in TE 2 ml . The thus obtained DNA solution 300 p1 was subjected to 5 25 sucrose density gradient centrifuge 20 mM, Tris HCl buffer pH 7.6 , 5 mM EDTA, Beckmann SW 28, 20,000 r.p.m. for 9 hours at 20 C and fractions with each 30 drops were obtained. Each fraction 20 p1 was electrophores on 0.48 agarose gel and measured the length thereof, collected 35 45 Kbp DNA fractions, then dialysed three times against TE 3 lit. . Dialysate was extracted with phenol and aqueous layer was concentrated with sec. butanol. DNA was obtained by adding ethanol, and the precipitate was dissolved in TE 1 ml to obtain 35 45 Kbp genomic DNA.Absorbancy ofDNA solution at 260 nm, and 280 nm were OD260 0.216 andOD280 0.112 OD280 OD260 0.519 in 50 times dilution.Concentration of DNA was 0.216 X 0.050 pg lOD X 50 0.54 g l. c Preparation of cosmid vector DNA A pTcos Apr ori cmr neo 40 pg was digested in a reaction medium 400 l with ClaI 80 units at 370C for 2 hours. Reaction mixture was extracted with phenol and added ethanol therein to precipitate DNA which was dissolved in 10t 0.1E 100 p1 . The said ClaI digested DNA solution 95 p1 was treated in a reaction medium 500 l I50 mM Tris HCl buffer pH 9.0 , 1 mM. MgCl2, 0.1 mM Zncl2 and 1 mM spermidine with phosphatase 6 units calf intestinal alkaline phosphatase, BoehringerMannheim at 370C for 15 minutes and at 560C for 15 minutes.Further the treated reaction mixture was treated with adding phosphatase 6 units at 370C for 15 minutes, subsequently at 56 C for 15 minutes to inactivate ClaI fragment. To a raction mixture thereof were added H20 400 p1 , STE 100 mM Tris HCl buffer pH 8.0 , 1M NaCl and 10 mM EDTA 100 p1 and 10 SDS 50 p1 and heated at 680C for 15 minutes to denature phosphatase. The mixture was extracted with phenol for deproteinization and ethanol was added therein to precipitate DNA which was dissolved in 1Ot o.lE 30 p1 . The resulting DNA solution 30 l , which had digested with ClaI and denatured with phosphatase, was digested in a reaction mixture 500 p1 with BamHI 176 units at 370C for 2 hours. Then the mixture was extracted with phenol for deproteination and ethanol was added to precipitate DNA which was dissolved in 10t 0.1E 30 pl to obtain cosmid vectorDNA solution 0.69 pg pl . d Ligation of 35 45 Kbp genomic DNA and cosmid vector Genomic DNA 35 45 Kbp, 2.61 p1, 1.4 pg prepared in b hereinabove and cosmid vector DNA 0.86 pl, 0.59 pg prepared in c hereinabove were ligated in a reaction medium 10 p1 with T4 DNA ligase 5.9 units at 120C for 17.5 hours to join each other. Resulting reaction mixture was kept at 40C. e Preparation of ultrasonicated cell extracts from BHB 2690 E. coli BHB 2690 was cultured in NZY medium 1t NZ amine, 0.5 yeast extract, 0.5 NaCl and 0.2 MgC12 6H2 , pH 7.5 100 ml for overnight. Absorbancy at 600 nm OD600 of cultured broth was measured and the said cultured medium was inoculated in an NZ medium 500 ml in 1 lit. flask , in which OD600 thereof was adjusted to 0.025 by inculating cells, and shake cultured at 320C. After starting the cultivation for 2 hours 40 minutes, at the time for OD600 was showy the value of 0.3, prophage was induced at 450C for 15 minutes intervals. Culturing temperature was changed to set at 38 390C and vigorously shake cultured for 3 hours.Induction was checked by adding a drop of chloroform to a small amount of cultured broth. Cultured broth was centrifuged at 6,000 r.p.m. for 10 minutes to collect bacterial cells, which were suspended in a buffer solution t20 mM Tris HCl pH 8.0 , 1 m EDTA and 5 mM S mercapto ethanol3 3.6 ml . Suspension was ultrasonicated, by maximum power for 5 seconds for 20 times, below 40C, then centrifuged at 20,000 r.p.m. for 10 minutes at 40C to obtain the supernatant solution 3 ml .To a supernatant solution 3 ml were added equal volume of buffer solution hereinabove and packaging buffer solution 6 mM TrisHC1 buffer pH 8.0 , 50 mre spermidine, 50 mM putrecin, 20 mN MgC12, 30 mb1 ATP and 30 mM B mercaptoethanol 0.5 ml , and each 15 p1 thereof was injected into 1.5 ml Eppendorm tube and simultaneously freezed in a liquid nitrogen to keep at 700C. ii Preparation of cell extract by freezing thawing for BHB2688 E. coli 2688 was cultured in NZY medium 100 ml for overnight. Absorbancy OD600 of cultured broth was measured at 600 nm, and the cultured broth was inoculated in a previously kept NZY medium 500 ml in 2 lit. flask at 320C with adjusting OD600 thereof to 0.025 and shake cultured at 320C. After starting cultivation at about 2 hours 40 minutes, at the time fo OD600 reached 0.3, prophage was induced at 45 C for each 15 minutes intervals. Culturing temperature thereof was changed to 38 390C and a medium was vigorously shake cultured. Induction was checked by dropping one drop of chloroform in a small volume of cultured broth. Cultured broth was centrifuged at 6,000 r.p.m. for 10 minutes to collect cells and suspended in sucrose solution 10 sucrose, 50 mN Tris HC1 pH 8.0 3 ml , then each 0.5 ml thereof was injected into Eppendrof tube 6 tubes . Lysozyme solution 2 mg ml, 0.25 N Tris HCl buffer pH 8.0 25 p was added therein at 40C and gently mixed, then freezed in liquid nitrogen. Each tube was set up on an ice to thaw the extract, and packaging buffer 25 p1 was added therein to mic solution. The extracts were combined and centrifuged at 21,000 r.p.m. for 1 hour at 40C to obtain supernatant, then each 10 pl thereof, respectively, was injected into 1.5 ml Eppendorf tube, and immediately freezed ina liquid nitrogen, then stored at 700C. f In vitro packaging Freezed extract of strain BHB 2690 and BHB 2688 stored at 700C were put on an ice. The strain BHB 2688 extract which was prior thawed was added to the BB 2690 extract and gently mixed. At about almost thawing the freezed extract, recombinant DNA solution 2.5 pl, 0.5 pg prepared in d hereinabove was added therein to mxi well, and incubated at room temperature for 1 hour to perform in vitro packaging. The reaction mixture thereof were added SM solution 0.58 NaCl, 0.2 NgSO4 .7H2 , 50 ntN Tris HCl buffer pH 7.5 and 0.01 gelatine 1 ml and one drop of chlorform. The mixture in Eppendorf tubes were centrifuged for 30 seconds to obtain a supernatant, transducing phage particle solution. g Transduction and plating E. coli HB 101 was cultured in L broth added maltose 0.4 for overnight. Cultured broth 200 p1 was cnetrifuged to collect cells, which was resuspended in 10 mM MgCl2 solution 100 p1 . Transducing phage particles solution 100 p1 diluted for 10 times with SM solution was added in teh cell suspension 100 p1 and incubated at 37 C for 15 minutes to transduce, then added L broth 1.1 ml therein to shake culture at 370C for 45 minutes. Cell suspension was spread each 100 l, respectively, on the 100 mm L plate containing ampicillin 20 pg ml, then incubated at 370C for overnight.Colonies forme were picked up by bamboo skewer, which was grown in L broth containing ampicillin 20 pg ml.Numbers of colony per plate were 20 100. h culturing transformant, and preparation and specifying DNA thereof Ampicillin resistant colonies transformant 2u colonies nies obtained in g hereinabove were cultured in L broth containing ampicil lin 20 vgjmlj 2 ml for overnight, and each cultured broth was injected into 1.5 ml Eppendorf tube which was centrifuged to collect cells. Resuspended cells in the solution I 50 mM glucose, 25 mM Tris HCl bffcr pH 8.0 , 10 mM EDTA and 4 mg r..l lysozyme 100 v1 were stood at room temperature for 5 minutes.The solution II 0.2 N NaOH and 1 SDS 200 l was added therein to mix gently and on an ice for 5 minutes.The solution III 5 M potassium acetate pH 4.8 150 v1 was added therein to mix gently, and laid on an ice for 5 minutes. A solution in Eppendorf tubes was centrifuged to Ethanol twice volume thereof was added therein to precipitate plasmid DNA. Plasmid DNA of each transformant was dissolved in a small amount of lOt O.lE, which was electrophoresed on 0.48 agarose gel together with size marker DNA DNA 48 Kbp and digest of DNA with Hind 22,3 bhp and 9.5 Kbp . Among the tested 20 ampicillin resistant colonies, all the colonies showed the pattern of plasmid DNA cn 22.3 Kbp 48 Kbp im size. In this stage, recombinant DNA exists as a plasmid, and an extraneous DNA gene bank is produced as plasmid DNA. i Transduction and in vivo packaging A strain LN 900 HE 10 ACIts, TCr phage lyso genization at 370C A phage entering lytic cycle at 370C.tetracycline resistance in which A phage was lysogenized inE. coli HB 101, was cultured in L broth added maltose 0.4i at 300C for overnight. The cultured broth was resuspended broth 0resuspended inin 0 10 mM MgC12 solution 100 v1 . To the said suspension 100 p1 was added transducing i phage particles diluted 10 times volume in SM solution prepared in f hereinabove, and incubated at 300C for 15 minutes for transduction. Further Lbroth 1.1 ml was added therein and shake cultured at 300C for 45 minutes. Ampicillin and chloramphenicol were added to 20 pg ml, then total volume 2 ml of the solution L broth added maltose 0.4 was incubated at 3000 for overnight. The incubated medium 25 pl was inoculated to L broth added maltose 0 4 , ampicillin 20 pg ml and chloramphenicol 20 pg ml 5 ml , previously kept at 300C, and shake cultured at 300C. After 3 hours from starting cultivation, at the time of OD66 reaching at 0.3, the medium was subjected to induction at 40 C with 10 minutes intervals, and further shake cultured at 370C for 30 minutes. L broth added maltose 0.4 9.9 ml , previously kept at 370C, was added to the cultured broth 100 pl , then shake cultured at 370C for 2 hours., and added few drops of chloroform therein to mix the solution.The solution was cnetrifuged at 4,500 r.p.m. for 10 minutes to obtain the supernatant, a transducing phage particles solution. To the transducing phage particles sdlution 50 pl was added in cultured broth 1 ml of E. coli LN 900, previously cultured at 300C for overnight, and kept at 300C for 5 minutes for transduction. Cell suspension, each 50 p1, was on L plate containing ampicillin 20 vg ml , then the plates were incubated at 300C for overnight. 1000 3000 colonies per plate were observed. In this stage, recombinant DNA exists as transducing phage particles and extraneous DNA gene bank is produced as transducing phage particles.4. Brief explanation of the drawings Fig. 1 a novel cosmid vector pTcos Apr ori cmr neor Fig. 2 a process for preparing genomic DNA gene bank using novel cosmid vector of Fig. 1 Fig. 3 a novel cosmid vector pTcos Apr ori TK cm neor consfrucicn Fig. 4A, 4B and 4C a t method for pTcos Ap ori cm neo and conStrUction Fig. 5 a method for pTcos Apr ori TK cmr neo .