# A GANGLIOSIDES MIXTURE, USEFUL AS A THERAPEUTICAL TOOL FOR ELIMINATING PAINFUL EFFECTS OF PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHIES

## Claims
Anwendung wenigstens eines der Ganglioside der Gruppe GM₁, GD

## Description
The present invention relates to a novel use of at least one ganglioside, for the manufacture of a pharmaceutical composition, which has been found to possess important analgesic or pain relieving activity. It also concerns a patch, to be directly applied to the skin of a host, comprising said pharmaceutical composition. Gangliosides represent a family of complex glycolipid molecules which are natural components of cellular membranes, in particular of neuronal membranes. These components are implicated in neuronal development, differentiation and regeneration processes. Exogenously applied gangliosides will insert into neuronal membranes in a stable manner. This incorporation is associated with the activation of a membrane bound enzyme system, Na , K ATPase whose activity is essential for nerve impulse conductivity. Ganglioside prepreparations have been shown to possess a reinnervation stimulating activity due to enhanced nerve sprouting, an essential feature of muscular reinnervation processes and of restoration of synaptic contacts. Electrophysiological and functional evidence of early recovery, due to parenteral ganglioside treatment, from nerve damage has been obtained in several animal models, including sensory nerve function after nerve transection, cochlear impairment by noise, diabetic neuropathy in mutant diabetic mice and intoxication with neurotoxins. Gangliosides are acidic glycolipids belonging to the family of biological compounds called glycosphingolipids. They are composed of 4 basic structural units a long chain animoalcohol, a fatty acid, an oligosaccharide moiety and one or more sialosyl residues. The hydrophilicity of gangliosides is due to the oligosaccharide chain and to the number of sialosyl residues linked to this chain. The highest concentration of gangliosides is found in cerebral grey matter, which contains approximately 2.5 micromoles of NANA per gram wet weight approximately 0.4 of dry weight, 0.6 of total lipids Ledeen R., Salsmar K., Cabrera M., J. Lipid Res. About 90 of the total ganglioside content of mammalian brain is comprised of four gangliosides having an identical oligosaccharide sequence Most of the remaining 10 mammalian brain ganglioside content is comprised of gangliosides lacking the terminal galactose or the galactosyl Nacetylgalactosamine unit Svennerholm L., Mansson S., Li Y., J. Biol. Chem. Brain gangliosides have been isolated and purified by chromatographic procedures. The structure of ganglioside GM₁ was determined first and was shown to be common to the four main gangliosides present in mammalian brain. A summarizing structure description is given in Table 1, which is followed by detailed single descriptions of the four main mammalian brain gangliosides Ganglioside GM₁ has the simplest structure of the four main gangliosides the others GD Il has now been found that a particular mixture of gangliosides provides both nerve reinnervation stimulating activity and analgesic activity. A specific ratio mixture of the gangliosides GM₁, GD It is, therefore, one object of the present invention to provide a novel use of at least one ganglioside selected from GM₁, DG It is another object of the invention to provide a patch to be directly applied to the skin of a host comprising a pharmaceutical composition, wherein said composition is formulated as a mixture with an appropriate excipient and comprises an effective pain relieving amount of at least one ganglioside selected from the group consisting of GM₁, GD₁, GD As discussed above, gangliosides represent a family of complex glycolipid molecules which are natural components of cellular membranes. Since gangliosides are mainly associated with neuronal membranes, it has been suggested Fishman et al., Science, 194 906 915 that they may play a role in the transfer of information across these membranes. Support for this suggestion has come from a series of observations implicating these molecules in a variety of cell membrane mediated events, including neuronal development Dimpfel W. et al., Gangliosides in Neurological and Neuromuscular Function, Development and Repair . Eds. Rapport and Gogio, Raven Press 119 134 1981 , differentiation Leon A. et al. 1981a Membranes in Growth Development . Hoffman et al. 311 320 1981 and regeneration Gorio A. et al. Gangliosides in Neurological and Neuromuscular Function, Development and Repair . Eds. Rapport and Gorio, Raven Press 177 195 . A ganglioside mixture of the gangliosides GM₁, GD The in vivo animal models denervation of rat fast twitch muscle by crush of sciatic nerve, partial denervation of rat soleus muscle by resection and dislocation of L5 nerve root have provided both electrophysiological and morphological evidence of enhanced collateral nerve sprouting, after treatment with exogenous gangliosides 5 50 mg kg daily l.p. injections , resulting in early functional recovery. Electrophysiological and functional evidence of accelerated recovery from nerve damage due to ganglioside treatment has been described in several animal models, including sensory nerve function after nerve transection Norido F. et al., Experientia, On the basis of these experimental data the mixture of gangliosides GM₁, GD Such peripheral neuropathies include The individual ganglioside components comprising the composition of the invention can be extracted by various per se known procedures. For example, bovine brain cortex nervous tissue drawn from the animal is homogenized in phosphate buffer at pH 6.8. Six 6 volumes of tetrahydrofuran are then added and the resulting mixture is centrifuged. The supernatant or overfloating fraction is twice re extracted with tetrahydrofuran. After centrifugation, the non polar or apolar materials are removed by fractioning with ethyl ether and the aqueous tetrahydrofuran phase is introduced into an ion exchange column balanced with 50 ethanol. Ethanol 50 is used as the eluent. To the effluent from the column is added barium hydroxide and four volumes of icy ethanol. After 18 hours under cold conditions, a precipitate is collected and then a slight amount of hydrochloric acid is added following solution in water. This solution is then dialized and lyophilized. The yield is now about 0.6 mg crude gangliosides per gram of nervous tissue being used. The lyophilized powder is dispersed in 20 volumes chloroform methanol 2 1 the solution is filtered to complete clearness and fractioned by adding 0.2 volumes potassium chloride solution in water 0.88 . The upper phase is separated, dialized and lyophilized. The final yield is about 0.3 mg gangliosides per gram of nervous tissue. When separating the individual gangliosidic fractions, columns of silicid acid eluted with methanol chloroform mixtures are utilized. Prior to use for human therapeutic application, assays should be carried out on the material obtained, such as assays relating to the absence of pyrogenic activity, proteins, anaphyllactogenic activity and histamine. For the novel therapeutic application according to the invention, a formulation of the ganglioside mixture should contain the individual gangliosides in the following ratios In a particularly preferred formulation, the individual gangliosides are combined in the following weight ratio. It has also been found that the important pain relieving activity of the present invention can also be attained by administering the above gangliosides individually, as binary mixtures or a tertiary mixture. Thus any of the gangliosides can be administered as a single fraction or various compositions can be prepared combining any two or any three of the gangliosides. For example, GM and GD In preparing a pharmaceutical composition according to the invention, the formulation should preferably contain a total GM₁ GD Some possible pharmaceutical compositions are as follows As discussed above, the ganglioside mixture composition, and the single fractions and the binary and tertiary mixtures thereof of the invention have been found to be useful for its analagesic activity in relieving pain due to various peripheral neuropathies. The following tests are conducted to show the improved and unexpectedly superior activity of the composition of the invention as compared to the individual component ganglioside compounds. The study was carried out using Swiss male mice 26 28g . The painful reaction induced by intraperitoneal injection of 0.25 ml mouse of a 0.02 phenylquinone solution in 5 ethyl alcohol writhing , was evaluated. This injection determines a painful reaction which can be measured by the abdominal writhing of the animal. The study evaluated the effect of the single ganglioside GM₁, GD The control animals received 10 ml kg s.c. distilled water. The number of writhes effected by each animal in a period of 5 minutes was evaluated from the 5th to the 10th minute after injection of phenylquinone , thereby calculating the percentage of inhibition of the nervous reaction, compared to the controls. The results obtained are summarized in Table 2. From the data in Table 2, it can be seen that the analgesic activity of the ganglioside mixture GA and its single fractions has a dose effect tendency. It was observed that the maximum effect was reached at the dose of 10 mg kg, while at the higher doses 20 30 and 50 mg kg the activity gradually decreased, giving as a result, a bell shaped dose effect curve. It was, moreover, shown that the analgesic activity of the individual gangliosides have the following relative activity, from highest to lowest activity The maximum percentage of inhibition of writhing obtained with each individual ganglioside does not in any case exceed a maximum value of 55 . Indeed, the activity tends to become stable around the values reached with the dose of 10 mg kg, without registering any significant increase in the analgesic response after further increases in the dose. By extrapolating the data from the dose effect curve, it is clear that the activity of the ganglioside mixture is the result of an interaction between the four associated gangliosides, characterized by a phenomena of synergism due to the specific ratio between the single fractions characterizing the total mixture of gangliosides, although the single fractions also demonstrated to have a good relieving pain activity. The above described experimental results evidence that the particular ganglioside mixture of the invention and its single fractions has significant analgesic or pain relieving activity. As a result, the ganglioside mixture, its single fractions, binary mixtures or tertiary mixtures thereof, is useful for relieving the pain caused by different peripheral neuropathies such as diabetic neuropathies, trigeminal neuralgia, sciatica, cervicobrachialgia, herpes zooster, post therapeutic neuropathies and other neuropathies with a serious high painful component. For the treatment of the above pathologies, the gangliosides, either as the individual, binary, tertiary or quaternary mixtures, can be prepared in formulations such as ampoules, vials, plasters or creams duly prepared in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, diluent or excipient. These formulations, as appropriate, can be administered to a patient by various administration routes, including subcutaneous intramuscular, intravenous, topical, inuction, transcutaneous and transdermal. For example, the active ganglioside compounds can be formulated as a mixture with an appropriate excipient and prepared in a patch form, which is then applied directly to the skin, whereby the compounds pass through the skin into the patient.