# HIGH DENSITY IC MODULE ASSEMBLY

## Claims
Elektrisches Bauelement mit mehreren Halbleiterchips 42 in einer ersten Dicke und mit einem Träger 41 , der mehrere sich verjüngende Durchgangslöcher zur Aufnahme der Chips 42 und der Zusammenfügung dienende Hilfsmittel 43 zum Festhalten der Chips 42 in den Durchgangslöchern aufweist,

## Description
This invention relates in general to electronic circuit modules, and, more particularly, to improved means and methods for providing high density circuit assemblies and modules having a multiplicity of interconnected integrated circuit chips or other components. Modern fabrication techniques make it possible to pack very large numbers of high speed semiconductor devices into individual integrated circuit IC chips or die. However, in order to build functioning systems, the individual ICs must be electrically interconnected in some way. Historically this has been done by mounting the individual IC die in sealed packages. These sealed packages protect the die from the environment and provide rugged external leads or pads which can be used for interconnecting the ICs in the system. The packaged die are generally mounted by their leads on a circuit board which contains the interconnect wiring. The circuit board often has multiple layers of interconnect wiring and may be fabricated of metallized plastics, ceramics, or impregnated paper or fabric. A significant disadvantage of this method is that the wiring length from die to die, through the individual packages and along the conductors of the circuit board, is many times the size of the IC die. With very high speed devices, these comparatively long wiring lengths cause significant propagation delays, reducing the overall system performance. More recently, it has been possible to produce IC die which are themselves hermetically sealed so that they may be mounted directly on the circuit board or substrate rather than being housed in individual packages. The circuit board or assembly is then encapsulated as a whole to form a module. In this connection Japanese Patent JP A 59 44849 See Patent Abstract of Japan, vol 8, no. 135 E 252 1572 , 22nd June 1984 shows a semi conductor chip held by its side by a support plate of comparable thickness, the support plate having an aperture to receive the chip. Furthermore, Japanese Patent JP A 53 46669 shows a plurality of semi conductor chips mounted in tapered through holes in a ceramic support plate. Omitting the individual packages permits the die to be closer together, thus reducing the propagation delay in the circuit board. The IC die or chips have bonding pads which are connected to the wiring pattern on the circuit board by a variety of off chip connection means generally involving soldering or welding. Examples are wire bonds, flexible tapes, beam leads, and solder bumps. A significant difficulty with these prior art approaches is that in most cases the metallurgy needed to make such off chip connections is different than the metallurgy used for the on chip interconnections within the IC chip. It is well known that the reliability of off chip interconnections is substantially poorer than the reliability of on chip interconnnections. Further, these prior art off chip connections utilise much more area on the circuit board or substrate than is desired. This contributes to the comparatively low packing density of prior art circuit modules, even when the individual die packages are omitted, and the continued significant propagation delays associated therewith. Prior art modules have utilised materials having markedly different coefficients of thermal expansions. As a consequence thermal stresses are induced during temperature cycling. This further degrades reliability of the finished modules. Additionally, prior art modules have not provided simple and effective means for removal of heat. from the many IC chips or other components within the module. Thus, a need continues to exist for improved modules for integrated circuits and other components, particularly high density modules, having improved packing density, propagation delay, heat dissipation, ease of manufacture, and cost. Accordingly, it is an object of the present invention to provide an improved means and method for electronic modules for integrated circuits having a high packing density. It is a further object of the present invention to provide an improved means and method for electronic modules wherein the number of welded or soldered joints required to interconnect the IC chips or other components within the module is reduced. It is an additional object of the present invention to provide an improved means and method for electronic modules wherein the generation of mechanical stress from temperature changes is reduced. It is a further object of the present invention to provide an improved means and method for electronic modules wherein the materials used for the module comprise the same material as used for the integrated circuit chip. It is an additional object of the present invention to provide an improved means and method for electronic modules wherein the principle elements of the module are self aligning for easy assembly. It is a further object of the present invention to provide an improved means and method for electronic modules wherein the individual IC chips are mounted in a supporting member so as to have accessible rear faces adapted for contacting a planar heat sink, and exposed front faces which are smoothly joined to, and optimally, part of the interconnect wiring surface. It is an additional object of the present invention to provide an arrangement for including semiconductor die prepared using different processing technologies e.g. TTL, NMOS, linear, ECL, etc. within the same monolithic substrate. It is further object of the present invention to provide a means and method for incorporation pretested die in a monolithic substrate which can be interconnected using planar metallization technology. According to the present invention in a first aspect thereof an electrical structure comprising a plurality of semiconductor chips of a first thickness and a support means having a plurality of tapered through holes for receiving the chips, and having joining means for holding the chips in the through holes, is CHARACTERISED IN THAT the chips are integrated circuits having multiple contacts on one side thereof, each chip being oriented in a tapered hole with the contacts closest to the narrower end of said hole, the support means is of a thickness less than or equal to said first thickness of the semi conductor chips, and the electrical structure further comprises leads formed by means of planar metallization technology mutually interconnecting the integrated circuits. According to the present invention in a second aspect thereof a method for forming an electronic structure having a plurality of semiconductor dice of a first thickness and a contact location on a first surface thereof, wherein the dice are mounted in tapered through holes in a support plate and retained therein by a filler material contacting an edge of the dice and a side of the support plate holes, is CHARACTERISED BY said dice comprising integrated circuits having multiple contacts on the first surface thereof, and the steps of providing that said support plate is of a thickness less than or equal to said thickness of said dice, inserting the dice in the tapered through hole with the contact location adjacent the narrower end of the tapered through holes and forming leads by means of planar metallization technology to mutually interconnect the integrated circuits. In the invented structure the individual IC die are embedded in a support substrate so that their upper surfaces, on which the die connection points e.g. contact pads are located, are substantially co planar with the surface of the substrate. The die are held by their edges. Any gaps between the substrate and the embedded die are filled so that the upper surface of the die, the upper surface of the gap filler material, and the upper surface of the substrate are substantially smooth and continuous. Conventional monolithic metallisation techniques can be used to form the inter chip wiring within the module. This inter chip wiring interconnects the various IC die embedded in the substrate and couples them to the external connection points of the module. Where the surfaces of the IC chips are covered with an insulating passivation layer, as is usually the case, the inter chip wiring may pass over as well as between the individual ICs. Hence, packing density is maximised and propagation delay minimised. It is important that the substrate, the die, and the gap filling material have compatible thermal coefficients of expansion TCEs , and it is desirable that they be similar. It is preferable that the same material be used for the substrate as is used for the semiconductor. Further, it is important that the surfaces on which the inter chip wiring is placed be smooth, that is, free from sharp steps. Additionally, it is important that the rear faces of the die be co planar and directly accessible to a heat sink plate, so that the escape of the heat generated within the die is not impeded by being required to pass through the substrate which supports the inter chip wiring. In a preferred embodiment using silicon semiconductor chips, the substrate is also formed from silicon and the chips are mounted by their edges in through holes in the substrate, preferably using a glass having a compatible coefficient of expansion. The substrate contains alignment means which are indexed to a heat sink in contact with the rear faces of the die. The heat sink is in turn indexed by other alignment means to an external connection support plate containing an array of connection pins. It is desirable that the heat sink and the connection support plate have substantially the same coefficient of expansion as the substrate, and preferably comprise the same material as used for the active devices, for example, silicon. To form the module, the substrate with the embedded interconnected die, the heat sink, and the connection support plate are sealed together, preferably using a soldering material. FIG. 1 shows in schematic form, a cross sectional view of a portion of a multi chip integrated circuit electronic assembly or module according to the prior art FIG. 2 shows in schematic form, a cross sectional view of a portion of a multi chip integrated circuit electronic assembly or module according to another embodiment of the prior art FIG. 3 shows in schematic form, a cross sectional view of a portion of a multi chip integrated circuit electronic assembly or module according to a further embodiment of the prior art FIGS. 4A B show in schematic form, cross sectional views of a portion of a multi chip integrated circuit electronic assembly or module, and having IC chips of different thickness relative to the supporting substrate FIGS. 4C D show portions of modules similar to FIGS. 4A B, in accordance with the present invention FIG. 5 shows a top view of a portion of an electronic module according to the present invention FIG 6A shows in simplified form, a cross sectional view of an electronic module, including a housing FIGS 6B C show portions of the module of FIG. 6A according to further embodiments FIG. 6D shows in simplified form, a cross sectional view of an electronic module and FIG. 7 shows, in simplified form, a pin side up partial cut away view of the module of FIG. 6A. FIG. 1 shows a schematic cross section view of a portion of prior art IC assembly 10 comprising circuit board or substrate 11 having base portion 11a and wiring portion 11b. IC chips 12 are mounted face up on base portion 11a by attachment means 13. IC chips 12 have bonding pads 14 which are connected by flexible wire or tape bonds 16 to corresponding pads 15 on interconnect wiring pattern 17 on surface 11c of wiring portion 11b of substrate 11. Heat is removed from IC chips 12 through attachment means 13 and substrate 11 to heat sink 18, as indicated by arrows 19. This design suffers from at least three important disadvantages i off chip bonds 16 are less reliable than the on chip or on board wiring and are a significant failure mode, ii heat must be removed to heat sink 18 through attachment means 13 and substrate 11, thereby increasing the thermal impedance and reducing performance, and iii chip packing density is limited because inter chip wiring can be located only on substrate wiring portion 11b. FIG. 2 shows a schematic cross sectional view of a portion of prior art IC assembly 20 comprising circuit board or substrate 21 having buried wiring patterns indicated by dotted lines 21a c which tie together bonding pads 25 on surface 21d of substrate 21. IC die 22a c are mounted face down onto substrate 21 by means of solder bumps 26 which connect bonding pads 24 on die 22a c to pads 25 on substrate 21. Pads 24 and 25 are arranged so that they align. Heat is removed from rear surfaces 23a c of die 22a c directly to heat sinks 28a c, as illustrated by arrows 29. While this design is better than that of FIG. 1, it still suffers from several important disadvantages i very large numbers of solder bump connections are required, since one is required for each contact point or bonding pad on each die solder bump interconnections are susceptible to thermal stress cracking and are a significant source of failure, particularly in assemblies using ceramic or plastic substrates , ii comparatively large bonding pads are required on each die to accommodate the solder bumps, iii multilayer substrates, particularly laminated ceramic substrates, are expensive to fabricate, and iv variations in the height of rear surfaces 23a c of individual die 22a c above surface 21d of substrate 21 due, for example, to random die thickness variations, generally require that heat sinks 28a c be articulated, that is, that thermal contact to each of die 22a c be made individually, rather than by a single heat sink plate. In FIG. 2, die 22b is illustrated as being thicker than die 22a or 22c. Thus, heat sink 28b must be shorter than heat sinks 28a and 28c. FIG. 3 shows a schematic cross sectional view of IC assembly 30, according to the prior art, in which die 32a c are inset in cavities 33a c in substrate 31. Die 32a c are provided with beam leads 34 which bridge empty gaps 33g between die 32a c and substrate 31. Beam leads 34 are welded or soldered to off chip interconnect leads 36 or 37 on substrate 31. Leads 36 and 37 are separated by insulator 35 so that lead 36 can cross over lead 37 as needs be. Die 32a c may be supported entirely by beam leads 34, as is indicated for die 32a in cavity 33a at the left of FIG. 3, or be attached to substrate 31 by solder means 33s at the bottom of the cavity, as indicated for die 32b c in cavities 33b c, at the right of FIG. 3. Frequently, surfaces 32s of die 32a c will be at a slightly different elevation than surface 31a of substrate 31. Beam leads 34, however, are deformable and can bend. Thus, differences in elevation of surfaces 31a and 32s can be accommodated, as is illustrated for die 32b and 32c. This permits die of different thickness to be placed in cavities of the same depth. FIG. 3 illustrates the situation where die 32a, die 32b, and die 32c all have different thicknesses. The structure of FIG. 3 suffers from several disadvantages. Chief among these are that beam leaded IC chips are very expensive to fabricate and assemble. Beam leads also require the use of metallurgy for the beams e.g. Au which is different than the metallurgy e.g. Al in most common use for on chip wiring of integrated circuits. When different metallurgies are joined there is a greater likelihood of reliability problems. Hence when beam leads are used, the choice of interconnect materials available to the designer is more limited than when beam leads are not used. Further, beams leads 34 must be larger than normal metallization runs and so are wasteful of die and substrate area. In addition, heat can be conductively removed from die 32b c only through solder means 33s and substrate 31, as illustrated by arrows 39 leading from die 32b through supporting substrate 31 to heat sink plate 38. Heat can be conductivity removed from die 32a only through beam leads 34, since die 32a makes no other contact with substrate 31. This results in a higher junction temperature for a given power dissipation level and reduces the reliability of the module. These and other limitations of the prior art systems can be avoided by use of the present invention. FIGS. 4A B show cross sectional views of a portion of monolithic IC assembly 40. Substrate 41 of monolithic assembly 40 contains through holes 41h in which die 42 are held by their edges 42e by means of filler material 43f located in gaps 43g. Upper surfaces 42u of die 42, upper surface 41u of substrate 41, and upper surface 43u of gap filler material 43f are smoothly joined. Upper surface 42u of die 42 contains contact points 44 for making connection to the internal on chip wiring of IC chip or die 42. Upper surface 41u of substrate 41 provides a smooth surface for supporting planar interconnect leads 46 and 47. Leads 46 and 47 differ in that lead 46 crosses over lead 47 by means of insulator 45. During fabrication, lead 47 is formed first. Cross overs permit greater interconnection flexibility and are well known in the art. By having upper surface 43u of gap filler material 43f smoothly join surfaces 41u and 42u, leads 46 and 47 can be formed by planar metallization techniques and extend from substrate surface 41u across gap filler surface 43u onto surface 42u of chip 42 to make contact directly to on chip wiring contact points 44 of chips 42. This eliminates the need for wire bonds, beam leads, solder bumps, lead frames, and the like, as have been used in the prior art. There need be no welded or soldered connections between leads 46 and 47 on substrate 41, and connection points 44 on die 42, since intimate contact is made during the process by which leads 46 and 47 are fabricated. Planar metallization fabrication techniques are well known in the art and commonly used to provide interconnections within monolithic integrated circuits. As used herein, the words monolithic interconnections are intended to refer to interconnection made by planar metallization techniques. As used herein, the word monolithic refers to a continuous rigid body without voids or crevices. It is important that die 42 all have similar thickness 42t so that planar heat sink 48 may make intimate contact to die 42 without any need for articulation or for separate heat sinks for the individual die see FIGS. 4C D . As will be presently shown, this is readily obtained with the means and method of the present invention. Die 42 may be initially thinner than substrate 41. Substrate 41 is then lapped until substrate thickness 41t equals die thickness 42t. In the finished assembly, thickness 42t of die 42 must be at least equal to thickness 41t of substrate 41 so that die 42 may contact heat sink 48 without interference from substrate 41. FIGS. 4A and 4C illustrate the situation where some of die 42, e.g. die 42a c, have thickness greater than the thickness of substrate 41, and FIGS. 4B and 4D illustrate the situation when die 42 have thickness equal to the thickness of substrate 41. In FIGS. 4B and 4D lower faces 42L and 41L as well as upper faces 42u and 41u of die 42 and substrate 41, respectively, are substantially coplanar. As shown in FIGS. 4C D, there is direct contact between heatsink 48 and die 42, so that heat removal is particularly efficient. Where thickness 42t exceeds thickness 41t, a space can exist between substrate surface 41L and heat sink 48. This space may be empty, as shown in FIG. 4C, or filled, desirably with a heat conductive material. It should be noted that die 42 are held in substrate 41 only by their edges 42e. Gap filler material 43f, as for example a glass, mechanically joins die 42 to substrate 41. Gap 43g can be quite narrow, as for example, 1 mil 0.025 mm or less. This permits gap filler material 43f to be quite thin see FIGS. 4A B . A suitable material for use as gap filler material 43f when die 42 are of silicon is type CF 6 glass manufactured by Nippon Electric Glass Co., Osaka, Japan, to which is added 10 to 20 volume percent of 2 to 10 micron particle size silicon dioxide. This glass mixture has a coefficient of thermal expansion, for 15 volume percent SiO₂, of 39x10 ⁷ per C, in the range 25 to 300 C. Other glasses having coefficients of thermal expansion in the range of 30 to 45x10 ⁷ per C, and otherwise compatible with die 42 are also suitable. Plastic materials can also be used provided that they have adequate thermal stability to withstand subsequent processing steps and do not introduce significant mechanical stress. It is also important that gap filler material 43f not shrink or crack during curing or firing so as to produce crevices in upper surface 43u or at the interfaces where gap filler material 43f joins die 42 and substrate 41. If die 42 are other than silicon, then filler material 43f should be chosen to have a coefficient of thermal expansion which is also compatible with the material comprising die 42. Generally, the relative thermal coefficients of expansion of substrate 41, die 42, and filler material 43f should be arranged so that filler 43f is in compression. FIGS 4A B illustrate the situation where through holes 41h have vertical side walls, i.e. substantially perpendicular to surface 41u. FIGS. 4C D illustrate the situation where through holes 41h have tapered side walls in accordance with the present invention. Contact points 44 on die 42 are interconnected by means of metallization runs or leads 46 and 47. Where cross overs must occur, as for example between leads 46 and 47, insulating layer 45 is provided. Surfaces 42u, 41u, and 43u should be smooth, that is, there should not be abrupt steps in surface topology. As used herein, an abrupt step is defined as a change in surface topography or height greater than about 10 of the thickness of the layer intended to cover the step which occurs over a lateral distance less than the layer thickness. It is desirable but not essential that surfaces 41u, 42u, and 43u be substantially co planar. When surfaces 41u, 42u, and 43u are substantially co planar, the surface topology does not contain large height differences which must be accommodated over short distances, and so abrupt surface steps are less likely. Surface smoothness is more important than absolute flatness or coplanarity. If surfaces 41u, 42u, and 43u join smoothly, i.e. without abrupt steps, then height differences of many times the thicknesses of the interconnect layers are easily accommodated. FIG. 5 shows a top view of an example of an assembly or module according to a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Monolithic assembly 40 contains a multiplicity of die 42 mounted in substrate 41 and having interconnections 46 and 47 tying on chip contact points 44 of die 42 to each other and to external connection points 44a. For clarity, insulating layer 45 between crossing metallization runs has been omitted and interconnect leads 46 and 47 are shown in schematic form. External connection points 44a are provided for connection of monolithic assembly 40 to the external system. External connection points 44a can overlie any portion of monolithic assembly 40, that is, they may be located on die 42, substrate 41, or gaps 43g. FIG. 5 illustrates the situation when monolithic assembly 40 contains ten die 42, each of which has eighteen contact points 44, for a total of one hundred and eighty die contact points. These one hundred and eighty die contact points 44 are interconnected by monolithic leads 46 and 47 which run across substrate 41, die 42, and filled gaps 43g. Interconnect leads 46 and 47, in this example, also couple die 42 to twenty five external connection points 44a. Thus, FIG. 5 illustrates an assembly in which the number of welded or soldered joints required to interconnect the ten IC die to the external system has been reduced by the ratio 180 25 180 86 . For more complex IC chips having a larger number of die contact points, the reduction in the number of joints can be much larger. FIGS. 6A C show cross sections of IC enclosure or module 50. Module 50 includes monolithic IC assembly 40. For clarity, most of the details of assembly 40, such as have been discussed in connection with FIGS. 4A B and 5, have been omitted. External connection points 44a are shown. FIGS. 6B C show portions of alternative arrangements, in less detail, of the periphery of module 50 of FIG. 6A. FIG. 6D shows an alternative arrangement in which assembly 40 forms an external wall of module 50 so as to provide for improved heat transfer to the external cooling means. Assembly 40 is placed within enclosure 50 which preferably comprises heat sink 51, seal ring 52, and connection substrate 53, having therein connection pins 54. Heat sink 51 of FIGS. 6A C and 7 is analogous to heat sink 48 of FIGS. 4C D. In a preferred embodiment wherein die 42 are from silicon, it is preferable that heat sink 51, seal ring 52, and connection substrate 53 also be of silicon. Pins 54 are insulated from connection substrate 53 by means of insulating layer 55, for example of silicon oxide. Connection means 56, for example solder bumps, allow output connection points 44a on IC assembly 40 to be coupled to output pins 54. Connection means 56 are in contact with connection points 44a which are coupled to leads 46 and 47. The direct thermal path from die 42 to heat sink 51 provides improved thermal coupling to the external cooling means as compared to the prior art arrangements, as indicated by arrows 69. Assembly 40, heat sink 51, and connection substrate 53 contain alignment keys so that when they are assembled, external connection pins 54 in connection substrate 53 line up with connection points 44a on assembly 40. This is facilitated by use of intermediate seal ring 52 which joins heat sink 51 at interface 57b and connection substrate 53 at interface 57a. Intermediate seal ring 52 is desirable but not essential, since, for example, connection substrate 53 can be shaped so as to mate directly with heat sink 51 on alignment surface 58c and interface 57b see FIG. 6B . Alternatively, heat sink 51 can be shaped to mate directly with connection substrate 53 at interface 57a and alignment surface 58b see FIG. 6C . Further, while heat sink 51 is desirable for increased strength, it is not essential and may be omitted, in which case substrate 41 of assembly 40 is extended to join directly to seal ring 52 and or connection substrate 53. This is illustrated in FIG. 6D. The arrangement of the above described parts can be more clearly seen in FIG. 7 which shows a pin side up partial cut away view of module 50. Assembly 40 has perimeter 41p which matches surface 58a of heat sink 51, so that assembly 40 is laterally positioned in a predetermined location with respect to surface 58c see FIG. 6A which contacts seal ring 52. Alignment key 40k see FIG. 7 provides azimuthal orientation of assembly 40 in heat sink 51. Perimeter 41p and alignment surfaces 58a c are conveniently formed using known photolithographic masking techniques in conjunction with anisotropic etching. It is preferred to use anisotropic etching which takes advantage of the property of crystalline materials such as silicon to etch along determinable crystallographic planes. Surfaces 58a c are conveniently such determinable crystallographic planes. Connection pins 54 are located in known positions in connection substrate 53 by forming holes 59 for pins 54 and reference surface 58b in connection substrate 53 using photolithographic masking and etching techniques. Photolithograpic masking and etching techniques are capable of great precision so that precise alignment of the elements of module 50 may be conveniently obtained. Key 40k may be formed by any convenient means. Heat sink 51, and connection substrate 53 are conveniently joined to seal ring 52 by means of glass or metal seal means at interfaces 57a b. Glass and or metal seal means can also be conveniently used at interface 57c between assembly 40 and heat sink 51, and at interface 57d between pins 54 and connection substrate 53. Techniques for joining semiconductors to each other and to other materials by use of glass and or metal sealing or soldering are well known in the art. It is desirable that the sealing means used at interfaces 57a d be compatible, that is, not introduce significant mechanical stress into the assembly. This is accomplished by choosing sealing and or soldering materials which have coefficients of thermal expansion which are as close as practicable to the material used for enclosure 50. Additional interconnection patterns may be placed on connection substrate 53 or assembly 40, and additional components may be mounted thereon if desired. For example, chip capacitors 81a b can be mounted on connection substrate 53 and or substrate 40 see FIG. 6A . The following is an example of the practice of the method of the present invention for constructing an assembly such as has been described in connection with FIGS. 4A B and 5. It is assumed in this example that die 42 are silicon ICs and that substrate 41 is of silicon. Those of skill in the art will understand that the described method applies to other materials and devices as well. Substrate 41 is fabricated from a silicon starting wafer and then combined with die 42 to obtain monolithic assembly 40. As used herein, the terms upper surface or top surface are intended to refer to surfaces 41u, 42u, and 43u of substrate 41, die 42, and gap filler material 43f, respectively, and on which are located contact points 44 and 44a, and interconnects 46 and 47. The terms lower surface or bottom surface are intended to refer to the major surface opposite the upper or top surface, for example, surface 42L of die 42 and surface 41L of substrate 41. Assembly 40 is fabricated as follows. The following is an example in which monolithic assembly 40 is utilized in conjunction with a mating housing to form encapsulated module 50. For convenience, this example is described for the situation where die 42 and substrate 41 are silicon. Those of skill in the art will understand that other compatible materials can also be used.