# IMPROVEMENT IN THE FLAVOR OF ZINC SUPPLEMENTS FOR ORAL USE

## Claims
Orale Zubereitung zur langsamen Freigabe von Zink im Mund in Form eines oral akzeptablen harten Zuckerwerkgrundmaterials mit einer darin dispergierten Zinkverbindung und Aminosäure mit der Fähigkeit zur Komplexbildung der Zinkverbindung, wobei die Aminosäure aus Glycin, L Alanin, D,L Alanin, L 2 Aminobuttersäure, D,L Aminobuttersäure, L Valin, D,L Valin, L Isovalin, D,L Isovalin, L Leucin, D,L Leucin, D Isoleucin, D,L Isoleucin, L Lysin oder D,L Lysin besteht und das Molverhältnis Aminosäure Zink im Bereich von 2 1 bis 20 1 liegt.

## Description
This invention relates to zinc supplements for oral use. More particularly, this invention relates to compositions containing a zinc compound which, when taken orally, is palatable without undesirable aftertaste. These compositions include, in addition to the zinc compound, a base material and a select amino acid. The value of nutritional supplements of the element zinc is well established. Although zinc has been known to be essential for plant growth for more than a century, its essentiality for the normal growth of animals was reported in 1934 and for man in 1963. Hypogonadism in males, skin changes, poor appetite, and mental lethargy are but some of the observable effects related to zinc deficiency in man. Carbonic anhydrase was the first zinc metalloenzyme, discovered in the 1930 s. Today, approximately 70 enzymes, many of them essential to human well being, have been found to contain zinc, and the evidence is strong that zinc is required for many if not all of these enzymes to express their activity. Several enzymes required for nucleic acid metabolism have been shown to require zinc. In this group are ribonucleic acid RNA and deoxyribonucleic acid DNA polymerases, deoxythymidine kinase, and reverse transcriptase. It has been shown experimentally that the activity of deoxythymidine kinase in rapidly regenerating connective tissue decreases as early as six days after animals are placed on a zinc deficient diet. This metabolic defect resulting from nutritional zinc deficiency is an indication of the fundamental importance of zinc for cell division and protein synthesis. Until recently, zinc deficiency in man was considered unlikely because of the widespread availability of zinc in nature. However, recent evidence suggests that nutritional zinc deficiency may be common among the people of many developing countries where they subsist on high cereal protein diets. Only recently has it been recognized that the phytate content of such diets severely restricts zinc availability, which translates nutritionally to markedly depressed zinc absorption in man under many practical circumstances. Marginal zinc deficiency may be widespread even in the United States because of self imposed dietary restrictions, use of alcohol and cereal proteins, and the increasing use of refined foods which decrease the intake of trace elements. As meat is a major dietary source of zinc, vegetarians who consume cereals as a major source of protein may be in double jeopardy of zinc deficiency. Therapeutically, zinc has a vital role in certain diseased or debilitated states. Zinc therapy is life saving in acrodermatitis enteropathica, a genetic disease caused by an autosomal recessive trait, which, although rare, had an extremely high mortality rate until it was discovered in 1973 that chronic administration of oral zinc salts was not only life saving but capable of lifetime control of the disease. Zinc supplementation markedly improves wound healing in zinc deficient individuals. Zinc deficiency is an important feature of many cases of sickle cell anaemia characterised by growth retardation and hypogonadism, and zinc appears to have pharmacological antisickling effect. Zinc has also been shown to be beneficial in the relief of acute inflammatory conditions associated with rheumatoid arthritis. The safety of zinc supplements in excess of the amounts found in a normal diet is well documented. Although excess zinc produces toxic symptoms, such symptoms are rare. An acute dose of 2 g of zinc sulfate has been recommended as an emetic. Except for extremely large doses, zinc is non toxic. US A 4 425 325, US A 4 339 432 and GB A 2 052 978 disclose mouthwash or toothpaste compositions containing zinc and glycine and designed to serve as anticalculus or antiplaque agents. These compositions are not to be ingested, being intended to reside in a user s mouth for only a very short period. Until the present time, the more or less water soluble zinc compounds such as the sulfate, chloride, acetate, gluconate, and the like, have been formulated as solid tablets or enclosed in gelatin capsules which are swallowed whole. Accordingly, the taste buds and other taste apparatus in the mouth and throat were not affected. These formulations generally dissolve in the gastric juice of the stomach and release zinc ion to be absorbed in the system via the stomach and intestines. It has only recently been found by a serendipitous observation of G. A. Eby, D. R. Davis, and W. W. Halcomb as reported in Reduction in Duration of Common Colds by Zinc Gluconate Lozenges in a Double Blind Study, Accordingly, in order to take advantage of the important effect of zinc upon the common cold it is necessary to develop a formulation or formulations of pharmaceutically acceptable zinc salts which are palatable enough to be taken with the frequency necessary to suppress the symptoms of the common cold. Another reason for developing zinc formulations having acceptable taste is to permit an increased oral dosage. Thus, it has been found that the ingestion of zinc as tablets or capsules which pass directly to the stomach before disintegrating is ineffective for providing a zinc supplement for certain applications, including the control of cold symptoms. It has been found, however, that while minimal improvements in the taste of zinc gluconate, zinc acetate, zinc citrate, and the like salts can be achieved by physically mixing these salts with a candy or syrup base and adding a flavoring agent such as fruit flavor concentrate, the products so obtained retain the objectionable taste characteristics of the unformulated salts to an undesirable and unacceptable degree. Accordingly, it is a primary object of this invention to provide a zinc supplement for oral usage which is palatable and which does not have a disagreeable aftertaste. It is another primary object of this invention to provide a zinc supplement for oral usage which permits a large oral dosage in simple and convenient form. These primary and other objects of the invention will be apparent from the following general description and the detailed examples. According to the present invention, it has been found that compositions containing a zinc compound, a base material such as a candy and certain amino acids in which the molecular ratio of amino acid to zinc is in the range of two to twenty are very pleasant to the taste and leave no undesirable aftertaste. The amino acids which have been found useful for the purpose of this invention are glycine, L alanine, D,L alanine, L 2 aminobutyric acid, D,L 2 aminobutyric acid, L valine, D,L valine, L isovaline, D,L isovaline, L leucine, D,L leucine, D isoleucine, D,L isoleucine, L lysine, and D,L lysine. It has also been found that complexes between zinc and the named amino acids having the composition Zn aminoacid ₂ are water soluble and have very good flavors when formulated with an excess of the same amino acid, said excess being in the range of 2 to 20 moles of the said amino acid per mole of Zn aminoacid ₂. It has further been found that certain other amino acids such as aspartic and glutamic acids are not useful for this purpose. Therefore, it has been found that it is not possible to predict which zinc and amino acid combination will have an acceptable taste unless it is prepared and tested. The zinc compound which can be used in combination with the amino acids noted above can be in any of the forms commonly used such as the sulfate, chloride, acetate, gluconate, ascorbate, citrate, aspartate, picolinate, orotate and transferrin salts, as well as zinc oxide and complexes of divalent zinc with the amino acids. It has been found, however, because of compatibility with the amino acids and the like, that the gluconate, citrate and acetate salts are particularly preferred. The base material which can be utilized as a carrier for the zinc compound and the select amino acid can be a sweetening agent such as a hard candy base where the composition is retained in the mouth for a substantial period of time to permit prolonged contact in the mouth with the zinc. The base material is a hard candy base optionally containing a flavoring agent such as a fruit flavor concentrate or a syrup such as a natural or artificially sweetened syrup. The following examples will serve to illustrate, but not to limit, the present invention. A mixture of 400 g of sucrose, 160 ml of white corn syrup, and 160 ml of deionized water was heated to 100 C 212 F while stirring in a one liter Teflon lined aluminum pan. When a clear solution was obtained, the mixture was heated without further stirring at the maximum rate possible without boil over until the temperature of the mixture reached 148.8 C 300 F . The pale straw colored product was poured in a 4 mm layer onto a lightly greased heavy aluminum pan. On cooling to room temperature, the layer was fractured into convenient sized pieces and stored in a sealed container. The yield was 522.9 g of product known in the art as hard crack caramel. 70 g of hard candy stock was placed in a stainless steel SS pan and heated, while stirring, to just thoroughly melt the stock. To this hot stock was added 5.40 g of a dry, finely ground mixture containing 2.48 g of zinc gluconate, Zn C₆H₁₁O₇ ₂ 3H₂O, and 2.92 g of anhydrous glycine, C₂H₅NO₂. The dry component was evenly distributed in the melted stock by thorough mixing and, while the resulting mixture was still hot, 1.0 ml of lemon flavored concentrate was added and stirred in. The still hot mixture was distributed among 24 lightly greased steel candy molds. The yield was 24 circular lozenges, average weight 2.6 g. The zinc content was 4.2 mg per gram, or 10.9 mg per 2.6 g lozenge. A similar product containing no glycine had an unpleasant flavor and aftertaste. 70 g of hard candy stock was placed in a small SS pan and heated, while stirring, to just thoroughly melt the stock. To this hot stock was added 5.70 g of a dry, finely ground mixture containing 1.30 g of zinc acetate, Zn C₂H₃O₂ ₂ H₂O, and 4.40 g of anhydrous glycine, C₂H₅NO₂. The dry component was evenly distributed into the melted stock by thorough mixing and, while still hot, 1.0 ml of lemon flavored concentrate was added and stirred in. The still hot mixture was distributed among 24 lightly greased candy molds. The yield was 24 circular lozenges, average weight 2.7 g. The zinc content of the product was 5.1 mg g, or 13.8 mg per 2.7 g lozenge. A similar product containing no glycine had a sharp, undesirable taste and an unpleasant aftertaste. 20 g of hard candy stock was placed in a small SS pan and heated, while stirring, to just thoroughly melt the stock. To this hot stock was added 3.20 g of a finely ground mixture of zinc citrate containing Zn₃ C₆H₅O₇ ₂ 2H₂O 0.73 g and anhydrous glycine 2.47 g. The dry component was distributed into the melted stock by thorough mixing and, while the resulting mixture was still hot, 0.25 ml of lemon flavored concentrate was added and stirred in. The final mixture was cooled in the pan and then fractured into convenient sized chunks. The same procedure was used to combine 20.0 g of hard candy stock, 225 mg of the same zinc citrate plus glycine mixture, and 0.25 ml of lemon flavored concentrate. The same procedure was used to combine 20.8 g of hard candy stock, 730 mg of the same dry zinc citrate plus glycine mixture, and 0.25 ml of lemon flavored concentrate. Similar products prepared without glycine had sharp, unpleasant flavors. A mixture of 4.0690 g, 0.0500 mole, of ultra pure zinc oxide ZnO , and 8.2577 g, 0.1100 mole, of anhydrous glycine was heated to 87.7 C 190 F in 75 ml of deionized water for 30 minutes in a boiling water bath. Only a small amount of white substance remained insoluble. The solution was gravity filtered while hot, the filter was washed with 5 ml of hot water, and the filtrate was chilled to 0 C 32 F . The resulting crystalline precipitate was filtered off, washed with 60 ml of 91 isopropyl alcohol, and air dried for 12 hours at 65.5 C 150 F . The yield was 6.805 g. 22.5 g of hard candy stock was placed in a small SS pan and heated, while stirring, to just thoroughly melt the stock. Exactly 400 mg of the Zn glycine ₂ 1½H₂O complex prepared above was ground fine and added to the hot stock. It was evenly distributed into the melted stock by thorough mixing and, while the mixture was still hot, 0.25 ml of lemon flavored concentrate was added and stirred in. The resulting mixture was cooled in the pan and then fractured into convenient sized chunks. The zinc content was 4.7 mg per gram of product. The same procedure was used to combine 22.8 g of hard candy stock, 402 mg of Zn glycine ₂ 1½H₂O, and 1.309 g of glycine. The resulting product had 4.5 mg of zinc per gram. A mixture of 4.0690 g, 0.0500 mole, of ultra pure zinc oxide ZnO , and 8.909 g, 0.1000 mole, of anhydrous D,L alanine was heated to 87.7 C 190 F in 75 ml of deionized water for 20 minutes in a boiling water bath. An appreciable amount of substance remained insoluble. The mixture was filtered hot, and the clear filtrate was diluted to a total volume of 170 ml with 91 isopropyl alcohol. On cooling to 3.8 C 25 F , a crystalline product was formed. It was filtered off and dried at 65.5 C 150 F for 12 hours, yield 4.897 g. 20.5 g of hard candy stock was placed in a small SS pan and heated, while stirring, to just thoroughly melt the stock. Exactly 408 mg of the Zn D,L alanine ₂ ½H₂O complex prepared above was finely ground and added to the hot stock. It was evenly distributed into the melted stock by thorough mixing and, while the resulting mixture was still hot, 0.25 ml of lemon flavored concentrate was added and stirred in. The final mixture was cooled in the pan and fractured into small chunks. The zinc content was 5.1 mg per gram of product. The same procedure was used to combine 21.6 g of hard candy stock, 414 mg of Zn D,L alanine ₂ ½H₂O, and 1.472 g of anhydrous D,L alanine. The resulting product had 4.6 mg of zinc per gram. Anhydrous L leucine, 5.2472 g, 0.0400 mole, was dissolved in 30 ml of deionized water and heated to 48.8 C 120 F . Ultra pure zinc acetate dihydrate, Zn C₂H₃O₂ ₂ 2H₂O, 4.3900 g, 0.0200 mole, was added in small increments over one hour, with stirring. The solution did not clear, so another 20 ml of water was added and the mixture was heated in a boiling water bath to 87.7 C 190 F for an additional 2½ hours. Water was then added to a total volume of 75 ml, the mixture heated again to 87.7 C 190 F , and gravity filtered. The retained solid was dried at 65.5 C 150 F for 12 hours, found to weigh 2.717 g, and was analyzed. 20.5 g of hard candy stock was placed in a small SS pan and heated, while stirring, to just thoroughly melt the stock. To this was added the finely ground anhydrous Zn L leucine ₂ complex prepared above, 398 mg, and 0.25 ml of lemon flavored concentrate. The components were thoroughly distributed throughout the hot melt by stirring. The product was cooled in the pan and fractured into small pieces. The zinc content was 5.0 mg per gram of product. The same procedure was used to combine 21.6 g of hard candy stock, 417 mg of Zn L leucine ₂, and 1.350 g of glycine. The resulting product had a zinc content of 4.7 mg per gram. A mixture of 2.035 g, 0.025 mole, of ultra pure ZnO, 7.310 g, 0.050 mole, of anhydrous D,L lysine, and 25 ml of deionized water was heated and stirred at 87.7 C 190 F for 20 minutes. The cloudy solution was gravity filtered while hot, and the filter was rinsed with another 20 ml of hot water. No indication of a precipitate appeared when the clear filtrate was cooled to 29.4 C 85 F , so 225 ml of 91 isopropyl alcohol was added. A layer of oil settled to the bottom of the beaker. On cooling at 3.8 C 25 F overnight, the oil crystallized. The white solid was filtered off and dried at 65.5 C 150 F for 12 hours yield, 6.80 g. 20.1 g of hard candy stock was placed in a small SS pan and heated, while stirring, to just thoroughly melt the stock. A quantity of 531 mg of the above Zn D,L lysine ₂ 4H₂O complex was finely ground and added to the hot stock. It was evenly distributed into the melted stock by thorough mixing and, while the resulting mixture was still hot, 0.25 ml of lemon flavored concentrate was added and stirred in. The final mixture was cooled in the pan and fractured into convenient sized chunks. The zinc content was 4.9 mg per gram of product. The same procedure was used to combine 20.1 g of hard candy stock, 582 mg of Zn D,L lysine ₂ 4H₂O, and 1.41 g of glycine. The resulting product had 5.0 mg of zinc per gram. Similar formulations having good to excellent palatability are prepared from the zinc complexes of D,L alpha aminobutyric acid, L valine, D,L valine, L isoleucine, D,L isoleucine, L isovaline, D,L isovaline, L lysine, and L alanine. Similar formulations prepared with the dibasic amino acid zinc complexes of L aspartic acid, D,L aspartic acid 20 , L glutamic acid, and D,L glutamic acid were found to be highly The zinc supplement compositions obtained according to the present invention which include the select amino acid possess in general very pleasant flavors. Although the characteristic flavor and mouth feel of the zinc ion is present, it is markedly and unexpectedly modified by the presence of the select amino acids to the extent that the unpalatable taste, distortion of taste, and mouth irritation associated with, for example, unformulated zinc gluconate, are greatly reduced or eliminated. This permits the formulation of compositions which will release over an extended period of time substantial amounts of zinc ions locally in the mouth or in the mouth and throat as necessary for certain applications, including the control of the common cold. For example, a lozenge having a hard candy base will release approximately 23 mg of zinc uniformly over 20 minutes in an adult human having a normal amount of saliva produced under the stimulation of the hard candy. As will be apparent, the amount of zinc ion which will be released can be controlled by the amount of zinc compound incorporated into the base material. The present invention, therefore, provides the ability to release varying amounts of the zinc supplement over varying periods of time determined by the formulation of the composition selected.