# Monoclonal antibodies for endotoxin core and their use.

## Abstract
Monoclonal antibodies specific for Enterobacteriaceae endotoxin are provided for passive immunization against Gram negative bacterial sepsis. Particularly, by employing the core of J5 endotoxin as an immunogen, monoclonal antibodies are obtained specific for a broad range of endotoxins which can provide protection by passive im munization to a mammalian host, particularly a human host. The hybridoma D10 was deposited at the A.T.C.C. on November 8, 1983 and given Accession No. HB 8417, where D10 is a subclone from the fusion with X63 Ag8.653.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. Human monoclonal antibodies specific for the core lipopolysaccharide of Gram negative bacteria. 2. Monoclonal antibodies according to Claim 1, produced in response to J5 immunogen. 3. Monoclonal antibodies according to Claim 2, which are IgG, or IgM. 4. Monoclonal antibodies according to Claim 1, which are IgG, or IgM. 5. A hybridoma from an immortalized cell line and a human B lymphocyte sensitized to the core lipopolysaccharide of a Gram negative bacterium capable of producing antibody to said core lipopolysaccharide. 6. A hybridoma according to Claim 5, wherein said immortalized cell line is a mouse human heteromyeloma. 7. A hybridoma according to Claim 6, wherein said lymphocyte is transformed by EBV prior to fusion. 8. A method for treating a host suscepti le to lethal Gram negative bacteremia which comprises administering to said host an amount of monoclonal antibody according to Claim 1 sufficient to provide passive immunization or active treatment. 9. A hybridoma D10 having the A.T.CC Designation No. HB 8417.

## Description
MONOCLONAL ANTIBODIES FOR ENDOTOXIN CORE AND THEIR USE Gram negative sepsis is a very common type of bacterial infection, particularly in burn victims and in patients treated with high doses of cancer chemotherapeutic agents for leukemia or other forms of cancer. There are several reasons for postulating that the lipopolysaccharide, or endotoxin, in the cell wall of invading Gram negative bacteria is an important factor in mortality. Despite the use of potent antibiotics and aggressive support techniques, there is still a high frequency of death. The lipopolysaccharide has three portions the oligosaccharide side chains the core polysaccharide and lipid A, which is considered to be the toxic moiety. Antibody to complete polysaccharide is directed primarily against the side chains, which differ widely from strain to strain. Therefore, antiserum to a complete polysaccharide is less likely to have protective activity against a broad range of bacterial strains. However, there is much less strain variation in the core polysaccharide lipid A complex than in the side chains. The core regions of most Gram negative bacteria contain similar lipopolysaccharide core structures. Antibodies to the core structure should, therefore, provide a broader scope of protection. Ziegler et al., N,E.J. of Medicine 1982 307 1225 1230 report the preparation of polyclonal antiserum to the J5 mutant of E. coli Olll B4, , a mutant which produces a lipopolysaccharide consisting solely of core determinants. U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 457,795, filed January 13, 1983, describes the preparation of heteromyeloma cells and the deposit of an exemplary heteromyeloma at the A.T.C.C., given Accession No. In the invention, human monoclonal antibodies are produced against the core lipopolysaccharide of a Gram negative bacterium to provide human monoclonal antibodies useful for passive immunization against Gram negative bacteremia. The monoclonal antibodies are achieved by fusion of core lipopolysaccharide sensitized lymphocytes with an appropriate fusion partner to produce a hybridoma which provides for the stable secretion of an immunoglobulin specific for the bacterial endotoxin. Methods are provided for the production of and the use of human monoclonal antibodies specific for a broad range of Gram negative endotoxins. The human monoclonal antibodies may be administered for passive immunization to a host susceptible to Gram negative bacteremia. The monoclonal antibodies have a broad spectrum of activity over a wide range of Gram negative bacterial strains, because they are prepared against the core lipopolysaccharide, which tends to be relatively conserved, as distinct from the side chains of the endotoxin. The subject monoclonal antibodies are obtained by employing human lymphocytes which have been sensitized with a core lipopolysaccharide from a Gramnegative bacterium Particularly, the J5 mutant of E.coli Olll Bv provides a lipopolysaccharide consisting solely of the core determinants. A human host may be sensitized with J5 vaccine prepared from E. coli J5 bacterial cells as described in Ziegler, supra.Desirably, patients are chosen who are intended for a splenectomy, where the spleen will be removed shortly after the immunization program. The vaccine may be used by itself or in conjunction with adjuvants to enhance the immune response. Conveniently, the host may be immunized subcutaneously at one or more sites with injections of about 0.5 to 2ml, usually about linl, where the vaccine will induce a hemagglutinating antibody titer in the range of about 1 32 to 1 256.One or more booster vaccinations may be given, generally not more than about two booster vaccinations, where the vaccinations may be separated by from about 48hr to about three weeks. Where splenocytes are to be employed for the fusion, the spleen will normally be removed from about 2 to 21 days after the final vaccination. The spleen is removed and the T cells separated by any convenient technique, e.g., mass E rosetting. Desirably, theB lymphocytes will be transformed with Epstein Barr virus EBV to generate immortalized lymphoblastoid cells, which can be used in the subsequent fusion with a fusion partner. A wide variety of fusion partners may be employed which provide for the secretion of human immunoglobulins. Desirably, the immunoglobulin which is secreted will be IgM, although IgG or IgA may also find use. The production of IgD and IgE is uncommon.The fusion partner may be a mouse myeloma line, a heteromyeloma line see Application Serial No. 457,795 , or a human myeloma or other immortalized line, as described in PCT Application No. 81 00957, Schlom et al., PNAS USA 1980 77 6841 6845 and Croce et al.,Nature 1980 288 488 489. Desirable characteristics of a fusion partner are high efficiency of fusion to provide for a high proportion of immunoglobulin producing hybridomas, absence of the production of individual chains or immunoglobulins unassociated with the immunoglobulin of interest, and the maintenance of the capability of continuously secreting the desired immunoglobulin over long periods of time. Illustrative fusion partners include the mouse myeloma cell lines X63 Ag8.653,P3 NSl lAg4 and S19415.XX0.BUl human fusion partners, such as UC729 6 and SKO 007 and mouse human heteromyeloma lines, such as SHM A6 and SHM D33.The fusion is carried out in the presence of a non ionic detergent, normally polyethylene glycol, for a short period of time, the detergent removed, and the cells subjected to selective conditions which are cytotoxic to the parent cells, but not to fused hybrid cells, e.g. HAT,HAT and ouabain, etc. Variations in the B lymphocyte preparation for fusion include the use of unseparated versus B cell enriched spleen cells, mitogen stimulated versus unstimulated cells, and the like. The particular technique will vary depending upon the success which is achieved with the fusion. Hybrid cells which grow out from the selective media are seeded in individual wells and their supernatants screened by any convenient technique for the monoclonal antibodies of interest. Cells showing the presence of the monoclonal antibodies of interest are then cloned by limiting dilution procedures and the clones producing the highest level of specific antibody expanded. The antibodies may then be further characterized as to classes, subclasses and type. The antibodies may be purified by any convenient technique, such as chromatography, electrophoresis, precipitation and extraction, or the like. The antibodies may be employed without further change after purification or may be modified by reduction to various sized fragments, such as F ab 2, Fab, Fv, or the like. Alternatively, the antibodies may be labeled with various agents, such as cytotoxic agents, e.g., the A chain of ricin or diphtheria toxin, antibiotics, or the like. Particularly, the IgG complement fixing subclasses, e.g. IgG3, may be employed for lysis of bacterial cells. The hybridomas may find use other than for production of the immunoglobulin. The hybridomas may be fused with other cells to transfer the genes providing for expression of the immunoglobulin, thus providing new hybridomas. The hybridomas may be used as a source for the DNA or mRNA encoding for the rearranged, activated immunoglobulin genes, which may be isolated, cloned by recombinant DNA techniques and transferred to other cells for the production of the specific immunoglobulin. Particularly, by isolating rearranged DNA or by preparing cDNA from messenger RNA a sequence may be obtained free of introns. For use in passive immunization, the antibodies may be infused or injected into a patient.Amounts of the antibodies employed for immunization will vary, generally being in the range of about 0.005 to 0.05ml kg of the immunoglobulin. The following examples are offered by way of illustration and not by way of limitation. EXPERIMENTAL Patient D.M. received one injection of J5 vaccine about two weeks prior to staging laparotomy with splenectomy. The spleen cells were suspended and aliquots prepared as unfractionated preparations containing both T and B cells B cell enriched populations from which T cells had been depleted by massE rosetting and on the following day, a population ofB cells was infected with B95 8 strain of EBV to generate immortalized lymphoblastoid cells Brown andMiller, J. Immunol. 1982 128 24 29 . The first fusion with the spleen cells of patient D.M. employed unstimulated B cells and SHM D33 in a 1 4 ratio. The cell fusion employed was the method described by Oi and Herzenberg 1979 In Selected Methods in Cellular Immunology B.B. Mishell and S.M. Shiigi, eds. San Francisco W.J. Freeman Publishers, pp. 351 372, modified as follows. The heteromyeloma cells lox107 and lymphocytes 4x107 see Application Serial No. 457,795 were each washed twice with 50ml calcium and magnesium free PBS PBS CMF Schneiderman et al., Somatic Cell Genetics 1979 5 263 269 . The cells were then mixed, washed with 10ml PBS CMF, and lml of 40 w v polyethylene glycol 1540 A.T.C.C. in PBS CMF was added to the pellet with gentle stirring for lmin.After one more minute, lml of Iscove s medium without fetal calf serum was added in linin with gentle stirring. Another ml of medium was added at the same rate. Then 8ml of Iscove s medium without fetal calf serum was added at 2ml min. The final pellet was resuspended in selection medium and added to 96 well plates at a concentration 5 of 2x10 cells well mouse thymocytes were used as feeders at 106 well. Selection was carried out in HAT medium Littlefield, Science 1964 145 709 710 and 5x10 7M ouabain. By 11 days, 23 viable hybrids had been obtained from 170 wells which had been seeded. Fourteen days later it was found that clone 2G7 was positive for secretion of specific anti J5 antibody by anELISA test. The ELISA procedure is as described inEngvall, Med. Biol. 1977 55 193 200 using peroxidaseconjugated goat anti human IgM and IgG Tago, Burlingame,CA as secondary antibodies and 2,2 azino di 3 ethylbenzthiazoline sulfonic acid as the substrate.The J5 endotoxin was used at a concentration of 100 200pg ml to coat the plates for ELISA LinbroE.I.A. plates were used for immunoglobulin assays andDynatech polyvinyl plates for anti J5 antibodies .However, this clone lost viability and died out, although by 38 days later, 24 of 29 clones were still producing human Ig but none was specific for reactivity with J5 endotoxin. In a second set of fusions, EBV transformed lymphoblastoid cells were fused with the following heteromyeloma cell lines SHM D29, D 33 G3 , D36 G7 , D39, D49, D42, D70, A6 H4 and with the parental mouse myeloma line, X63 Ag8.653 653 . Assays 22 days later revealed that the best producers stem from fusions with SHM A6 H4 58 120 wells SHki D3 G3 38 112 wells and 653 cells 78 120 wells.By 14 days later, repeat tests revealed Ig production was 100 for subclones of viable hybrids derived from fusion with SHM D33, 92 for those derived from fusion with 653, and 77 for those derived from fusion withA6. Meanwhile, subcloning of the producer clones had been carried out and testing of these revealed that subclones 2G5 and 1E8 derived from the fusion withSHM D33 G3 of10, 1C2 and 2G9 derived from the fusion with SHM A6 H4 and first clones lB7, 1E3, lGl, 2F9, 2E6 and 2D7 and subclone D10 derived from the fusion with 653 cells were specific anti J5 endotoxin antibody producers. These subclones were retested some 18 days later and found to react specifically not only with J5 endotoxin, but with the complete endotoxin LPS molecules derived from another strain of E. coli 055 B5 .A total of nine clones have stably produced human monoclonal antibodies against J5 for over three months. Hybridoma Dl0 referred to above was designated at ATCC on 8 November 1983 under No.HB.8417. Supernatant fluids were isolated from a number of the clones and used for testing. In vitro tests have confirmed that these human monoclonal antibodies react not only with the endotoxin of E. coli but also of several other Gram negative bacterial species, and in vivo tests have demonstrated strikisct protection of mice against lethal sepsis induced v Pseudomonas aeruginosa and E. coli 0111B4. No fe was noted when these human monoclonal antibodies welt tested for pyrogenicity by intravenous injection in rabbits. The subject monoclonal antibodies are specific for the core lipopolysaccharide of Gram negative bacteria, so as to be generally useful for passive immunization against and treatment of Gram negative bacteremia and endotoxic shock. The monoclonal antibodies are highly specific, having a high binding constant. The ability to maintain the stable production of a specific monoclonal antibody whose characteristics can be defined is extremely important. First, the subject hybridomas can be expanded so as to provide continuous production of human monoclonal anti J5 antibodies in useful amounts for general application. Secondly, because the subject monoclonal antibodies can be uniformly produced, they can be characterized to ensure adequate purification. Thirdly, because the monoclonal antibodies are human, any immune response upon repeated rejection should be relatively low and not hazard the health and continued viability of the host. Fourth, information can be developed by experience with the subject monoclonal antibodies concerning a host response to the same or different idiotypes having the same binding specificity. Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail by way of illustration and example for purposes of clarity of understanding, it will be obvious that certain changes and modifications may be practiced.