# Highly sensitive high performance sense amplifier.

## Abstract
An improved voltage sensing circuit is provided which includes a pair of cross coupled bipolar transistors T3, T4 coupled to a pair of signal nodes A, B , a pair of cross coupled field effect transistors T5, T6 coupled to the same pair of signal nodes and means ø₁ and ø₂ for activating the bipolar transistors during a first period of time and then activating the field effect transistors. The bipolar transistors are preferably NPN transistors and the field effect transistors are preferably P channel transistors. The circuit may be conveniently fabricated in complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS technology.

## Claims
1. A sense amplifier comprising

## Description
This invention relates to integrated semiconductor circuits, such as the complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS type, and more particularly, to a sense amplifying circuit or system which is capable of resolving very small signals within a short period of time with minimal direct current power dissipation. Integrated semiconductor circuits, particularly memory circuits employing cells which include a storage capacitor and a single switch, have achieved high memory cell densities. One of the simplest circuits for providing small memory cells is described in commonly assigned U.S. Patent 3,387,286, filed July 14, 1967, by R. H. Dennard. Each of these cells employs essentially only a storage capacitor and a field effect transistor FET acting as a switch to selectively connect the capacitor to a bit sense line. In also commonly assigned U.S. Patents 3,811,076 by W. M. Smith and 3,841,926 by R. H. Garnache and W. M. Smith, both filed January 2, 1973, there is disclosed a one device field effect transistor memory cell of the type described in the above identified Dennard patent which is made to a small size by utilizing a layer of doped polycrystalline silicon separated by a dielectric medium disposed on the surface of a semiconductor substrate for forming a storage capacitor. The generation of a reference or dummy cell voltage, for detection of a signal in a one device memory array, having a value midway between the voltage values representing a stored binary digit 1 and a stored binary digit 0 by equalizing the 1 and 0 digit voltages prior to applying the equalized voltage to the dummy cell capacitor is taught in U.S. Patent 3,940,747, filed February 24, 1976, by C. K. Kuo et al. In another commonly assigned U.S. Patent 4,080,590, filed March 31, 1976, by W. D. Pricer, there is disclosed a merged charge memory produced in a unipolar technology which is provided with very small capacitor cells, each of which includes substantially only a small storage capacitor having a bit sense line which provides a very small signal connected to one terminal of the capacitor and a word line providing a coupling to the other terminal of the capacitor. A simple amplifier latch which may be used to sense signals stored in the cells described in the hereinabove referenced patents is disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,588,844, filed July 7, 1971, by A. O. Christensen. In IBM Technical Disclosure Bulletin, Vol. 16, No. 6, November 1973, pp. 1973 1974, by J. C. Hsieh, and in IBM Technical Disclosure Bulletin, Vol. 24, No. 11A, April 1982, pp. 5474 5475, by L. G. Heller, output latchs are disclosed which include cross coupled P channel FETs and cross coupled N channel FETs for detecting memory cell signals. IBM Technical Disclosure Bulletin, Vol. 14, No. 12, May 1972, pp. 3684 3685, by R. D. Lane, discloses a differential amplifier which includes cross coupled P channel FETs and a current switch having bipolar transistors. Similar double cross coupled arrangements of FETs are found in commonly assigned U.S. Patent 3,983,545, filed on June 30, 1974, by W. Cordaro with a voltage equalizing transistor. A capacitive coupling arrangement between the output node of a latch and the control electrode of the latch for detecting small signals is shown in commonly assigned U.S. Patent 4,039,861, filed February 9, 1976, by L. G. Heller and D. P. Spampinato. Precharging capacitors in an FET sense amplifier to detect small signals is taught in commonly assigned U.S. Patent 3,764,906, filed October 1, 1971, by L. G. Heller. Merged transistor logic MTL or integrated injection I²L bipolar transistor memory characteristics and advantages for designing dense cells are well known, as, e.g., disclosed in commonly assigned U.S. Patent 4,346,458, filed on August 12, 1980, by H. H. Berger and S. K. Wiedmann. It should be noted that high cell density and high performance in memory systems are generally conflicting goals because high density circuits usually require long high capacitance bit lines on which are produced very weak data signals. The invention as claimed solves the problem of how to provide an improved high performance sensing circuit or system that is more sensitive to low voltages or signals than sense amplifiers utilizing only field effect transistors or bipolar transistors, while dissipating a minimal amount of direct current power. In accordance with the teachings of this invention an improved sensing circuit or system is provided which utilizes a pair of cross coupled bipolar transistors coupled to a pair of signal nodes and a pair of cross coupled field effect transistors coupled to the same pair of signal nodes. In operation, the bipolar transistors are activated to detect and amplify an incoming signal applied to the nodes and then the field effect transistors are activated to further amplify these amplified signals. Ways of carrying out the invention will be described in more detail with reference to the drawings in which Referring to Fig. 1 of the drawings in more detail, there is illustrated one embodiment of the sensing circuit of the present invention. The sensing circuit 10 includes first and second nodes A and B to which are connected, respectively, a bit line BLL located on the left side of the sensing circuit 10 and a bit line BLR located on the right side of the sensing circuit 10. The bit lines BLL and BLR may be portions of a memory array which also includes a first memory cell 12 having a storage capacitor C The sensing circuit 10 further includes first and second bipolar transistors T3 and T4 connected at their collectors, respectively, to nodes A and B and at their emitters to a first clock terminal ø₁. The base collector and base emitter capacitances of the transistors T3 and T4 may be about 20 femtofarads each. Node A is also connected to the base of the transistor T4 through a first coupling capacitor C₁ and node B is also connected to the base of the transistor T3 through a second coupling capacitor C₂ to form a cross coupled bipolar transistor latch. Each of the coupling capacitors C₁ and C₂ may have a capacitance of 100 femtofarads. The sensing circuit 10 also includes third and fourth field effect transistors T5 and T6 connected at their drains, respectively, to nodes A and B and at their sources to a second clock terminal ø₂. Node A is further connected to the control gate of the fourth transistor T6 and node B is further connected to the control gate of the third transistor T5 to form a cross coupled field effect transistor latch. A coupling transistor T7 is connected between the control gate of transistor T5 and the base of transistor T3 and a coupling transistor T8 is connected between the control gate of transistor T6 and the base of transistor T4, with the control gates of transistors T7 and T8 being connected to the second clock terminal ø₂. A voltage supply terminal V To better understand the operation of the sensing circuit illustrated in Fig. 1 of the drawings, reference may be had to the graphs or pulse program indicated in Figs. 2 and 3 of the drawings. At time t₀, ø₁ is high which deactivates bipolar transistors T3 and T4 and ø₂ is low which tends to turn on P channel transistors T7 and T8. Prior to receiving signals from the bit lines BLL and BLR at nodes A and B, respectively, the bit lines and nodes are precharged to V Assuming that the storage capacitor C It should be understood that the sensing circuit of this invention operates in a similar manner to that described hereinabove when the signal at node A is higher than the signal at node B. In this latter situation, transistor T4 is fully turned on along with transistor T5 to maintain node A at 5 volts and node B at ground. It should be noted that direct current paths between terminal V It should also be noted that the fabrication of CMOS circuits allows for the simultaneous fabrication of bipolar transistors at little or no additional processing complexity. If a vertical transistor structure is used, the bipolar transistor will exhibit fast small signal response with very close emitter base voltage, V In Fig. 4 there is illustrated a second embodiment of the sensing circuit of the present invention. Elements in the circuit of Fig. 4 which are similar to the elements of Fig. 1 of the drawings are indicated by like reference characters. It should be noted that the circuit of Fig. 4 differs from the circuit of Fig. 1 primarily in that P channel field effect transistors T7 and T8 are connected between nodes A and C and B and D, respectively, under the control of a clock ø₁, a voltage equalizing transistor T11 is connected between nodes A and B, under the control of a clock ø₂ To better understand the operation of the sensing circuit of Fig. 4, reference may be had to the pulse program indicated in Figs. 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the drawings. At time t₀ all phases ø₁ , ø₂ , ø₂ By turning on transistors T1 and T2 under the control of word line WL₁ and dummy word line WL In the operation, the bipolar transistor gain need be only slightly larger than the ratio of bit line capacitance C It can be seen that a very sensitive CMOS sense amplifier has been provided in accordance with the teachings of this invention with base emitter voltage, V As can be understood from the hereinabove teachings of this invention, a sensing circuit has been provided that has better sensitivity than normally found in either N channel field effect transistor or bipolar transistor sense amplifiers, has little or no direct current power dissipation, has no bit line droop and has rapid latching action. More dense bipolar P channel field effect transistor sense amplifiers may be made in accordance with the further teachings of this invention by using bipolar transistors fabricated in the merged transistor logic, MTL, or integrated injection logic, I²L, technology as indicated in Figs. 9 and 10 of the drawings by transistors T3 and T4 . The operation of the sensing circuits illustrated in Figs. 9 and 10 is essentially the same as that described hereinabove in connection with the sensing circuits illustrated in Figs. 1 and 4, respectively, of the drawings. Since MTL bipolar transistors have a lower beta and lower frequency response, the value of the coupling capacitors C₁ and C₂ and the ramp speed of clocks ø₁ and ø₃ in the circuits of Figs. 9 and 10, respectively, may have to be adjusted accordingly for optimum operation. It can be seen that in accordance with the teachings of this invention, a sensing circuit is provided for CMOS technology which uses a bipolar precharge to cut off and stored offset concept for making a very sensitive amplifier and a pair of cross coupled bipolar transistors is used as a preamplifier to generate sufficient offset to set a P channel latch to provide improved performance over known field effect transistor sense amplifiers, while using low power. Furthermore, this sense amplifier sets to a full supply voltage V