# MAGNETIC TAPE CARTRIDGE

## Abstract
A digital magnetic recording tape cartridge, in one embodiment, has a housing that permits use of up to 1 4 inch wide tape which, in turn, increases data recording packing density over standard 0.150 inch tape cartridges. The tape cartridge is the belt driven type having a flexible elastic endless belt that applies tension to tape on the supply and take up reels to move the tape. Rotation of a driving roller causes the belt to drive the tape reels and move the tape between the reels. A magnetic head of the tape transport engages an exposed portion of the tape in the cartridge for reading or writing data on the tape. In a preferred embodiment, the tape is 1 4 inch wide. The number of data tracks is substantially increased by the wider 1 4 inch tape. The cartridge housing has a base plate with a stepped down recess that accommodates the wider 1 4 inch tape and the wider supply and take up reels, tape guide rollers and tape guide pins. The cartridge has flanges along both sides of recessed grooves in the sides of the cartridge that permit the cartridge to be inserted into a tape drive capable of interchangeably receiving the 1 4 inch tape cartridge of this invention or the standard 0.150 inch tape cartridge. In another embodiment, the tape cartridge has a housing that permits use of greater than 1 4 inch wide tape which, in turn, increases data recording packing density over standard 1 4 inch tape cartridges. In a preferred embodi ment, the tape is 1 2 inch wide. The number of data tracks is substantially increased by the wider 1 2 inch tape. The cartridge housing has a base plate with a stepped down recess that accommodates the wider 1 2 inch tape and the wider supply and take up reels, tape guide rollers, and tape guide pins. The cartridge has flanges along both sides of recessed grooves in the sides of the cartridge that permit the cartridge to be inserted into a tape drive capable of interchangeably receiving the 1 2 inch tape cartridge of this invention or the standard 1 4 inch tape cartridge.