# The use of polyamidoamines as hardening catalysts for epoxy resins.

## Abstract
Polyamidoamines of formula CHEM and use thereof as hardening catalysts for epoxy resins. n

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A polyamidoamine having the formula EMI11.1 in which R1 is an alkylene radical containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms R2 is hydrogen or an alkyl radical containing from 1 to 3 carbon atoms X is the radical 4 CH2 a NH3b or the radicalEMI11.2 Y is a simple or substituted, linear or ramified aliphatic radical containing from 1 to 10 carbon atoms a simple or substituted aryl radical containing from 6 to 20 carbon atoms a simple or substituted cycloaliphatic radical contain frz 3 to 20 carbon atoms, or an aliphatic aromatic radical m is an integer ranging from 1 to 100 n is an integer ranging from 0 to 10 a is an integer ranging from 2 to 6 b is an integer ranging from 1 to 6 c is an integer ranging from 1 to 4 andR3 is an alkyl radical containing from 1 to 18 carbon atoms. 2. A polyamidoamine according to claim 1, in whichY is an alkylene aromatic radical. 3. A process for preparing the polyamidoamine of formula 1 according to one or both of the claims 1 2, consisting in first preparing the NCO terminated polyurethane resin according to scheme EMI12.1 and in subsequently reacting the resulting polyurethane resin with a polyamine according to the scheme EMI12.2 4. The process according to claim 3, in which the polyurethane NCO terminated resin IV is prepared by percolating polyglycol III into isocyanate II at a temperature ranging from 30 to 1000C. 5. The process according to one or both of the claims 3 4, in which the polyamidoamine of formula 1 is obtained by percolating a solution of polyurethane resin IV into a solution of polyamine V at a temperature ranging from 20 to 40 C. 6. A formulation comprising 100 parts by weight of an epoxy resin and from 50 to 250 parts by weight of a polyamidoamine of formula 1 as claimed in one or both of the claims 1 2. 7. A formulation according to claim 6 and comprising from 80 to 180 parts by weight of the polyamidoamine.

## Description
This invention relates to polyamidoamines, to formulations of epoxy resins containing them and to the use of same in the hardening of epoxy resins. Epoxy resins are well known and are widely employed in many industrial fields. Generally, these resins may be defined as intermediate resinous materials which are characterized by the presence of at least two epoxy groups. They are broadly utilized in structural applications and in protective coatings thanks to their hardness, adhesion to surfaces, chemical resistance and electrical properties. This combination of properties can be hardly found in other individual plastic materials. Generally, the epoxy resins require, for being hardened, the addition of a catalyst to provide a thermosetting material. Many hardeners for epoxy resins are known. Among these, a few are used for the hardening at room temperature, while others for the hardening at high temperatures. Generally, the hardening can be accomplished either according to an addition process or by catalytic polymerization, and both the epoxy groups and the hydroxyl groups of the resin can take part therein. Generally, the known hardeners for epoxy resins can be classified in three classes 1 the acid type, such as, e.g., the anhydrides 2 the condensation products of aldehydes, such as, e.g., the phenol formaldehyde resins, the urea formaldehyde resins and the melamine formaldehyde resins 3 the aminic type, such as, e.g., the aliphatic and aromatic amines, the polyamides, the tertiary amines and amine adducts. THE PRESENT INVENTIOn We have now found that excellcnt hardeners of the aminic type for epoxy resins are the polyamidoamines having formula EMI2.1 in which R1 is an alicylene radical containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms R2 is hydrogen or an alkyl radical containing from 1 to 3 carbon atoms X is the radical CH2 a NH b or the radicalEMI2.2 the imino group of which is bound to the carbonyl group COin formula 1 .in any case, Y is one or more of the following divalent radicals A simple or substituted, linear or ramified aliphatic radical containing fran 1 to 10 carbon atlas a simple or substituted arylen radical containing from 6 to 20 carbon atoms a simple or substituted Cycloaliphatic radical containing from 3 to 20 carbon atoms, or.an aliphatic aromatic radical such as an alkylene aromatic radical m is an integer from 1 to 100, preferably from 5 to 30 n is an integer from 0 to 10, pre ferably from i to 5 a is an integer from 2 to 6 b is an integer from 2 to 6 c is an integer from 1 to 4 and R3 is an alkyl radical containing from 1 to 18 carbon atoms. A formulation, which is also an object of the present invention, includes 100 parts by weight of cpoxy resin and front 50 to 250, preferably from 80 to 180 parts by weight of a polyamidoamine having formula 1 as defined hercinabove. After hardening, such formulation exhibits excellent flexibility, high beat distortion temperatures and an excellent stability to solvents, The pclyamidoamine having formula 1 is Suitably prepared by a two step process, The NCO terminated polyurethane resin is prepared in the first step and, in the second step, it is reacted with the polytmAne according to the scheme 1st stepi EMI3.1 2nd step EMI3.2 whetein X, Y, R11 R2, m and n have the values indicated hereinbefore, The first process step is preferably carried Out by percolating, in 1 2 hours, polyglycol III into isocyanate It at m temperature ranging from 30 to 100 C and maintaining the reaction mixture at such temperature during 3 4 hours. The resulting polyurethane resin IV is then dissolved at room temperature in an organic solvent thereof, preferably an aliphatic alcohol such as mothyl or ethyl alcohol, in order to obtain a solution at a concentration which ranges from 20 to 60 by weight. In the second step, the so obtained solution containing the polyurethane resin IV , is percolated, in 10 100 niiniutefi and at a temperature ranging from 20 to 400C, into a solution of polyamixse V in an aliphatic alcohol. The polyamidoamine of formula 1 is separated from the reaction mass by distillation of the solvent. An important use of the polyamidoamines 1 of the present invention is that as hardener for polyepoxides or epoxy resins. Compounds containing at least two epoxy groups, preferably terminal epoxy groups, can be hardened by using the polyamidoamines 17 of the present invention. Such polyepoxides may be saturated or unsaturated, aliphatic, cycloaliphatic, aromatic, heterocyclic and may be substituted, for example, by hydroxy groups or ether radical groups. The polyepoxides may be monomeric or polymeric and the preparation thereof is well known in the art. Hardening of polyepoxides with the polyamidoamine 1 of the present invention can be obtained simply by mixing the two components. Whilesthe reaction between the two components can take place slowly at room temperature, better results are obtainable if the mixture is heated to 50 18O0C during 1 12 hours. A subsequent post hardening during 1 8 hours at 140 2250C may be accomplished. Generally, it is preferable that the polyepoxide is in a stirrable form when the hardener is added, in order to facilitate a uniform mixing. If the polyepoxide is very viscous or solid at room temperature or at the forming temperature, it may be heated in order to reduce its viscosity, or a liquid volatile solvent, subsequently removable by evaporation either before or during hardening, may e added to the polyepoxide. Examples of liquid volatile solvents are the ketones, such as acetone and methyl ethylketone the esters such as ethyl acetate and butyl acetate the alcohol ethers such as methyl, ethyl or butyl ethers of ethylene glycol the chlorinated hydrocarbons such as chloroform, and the like. The polyamidoamines 1 forming the object of the present invention, besides being utilized as hardeners for epoxy resins, can be used for many other purposes, for example, they are utilizable for forming compositions of diisocyanates, or for forming polyamides, etc. The present invention is further explained by the following examples, which are given for a merely illustrative purpose and are not intended to be limiting. In the examples, all parts, percentages and ratios are by weight, unless otherwise specified. EXAMPLE 1 348.0 g 2 moles of toluene diisocyanate TDI were charged into a 4 neck flask having a capacity of 1000 ml, equipped with stirrer, reflux cooler, dropping funnel and thermometer. It was heated to 800C and 400.0 g 1 mole of polyethylene glycol having a molecular weight of 400 were added in 1.5 hours. At the end of such addition, the whole was kept under stirring at 800C during 2 hours. Then, it was cooled down to room temperature. 100 g of the so obtained product were dissolved, at 50C, in 200 g of ethyl alcohol. The mixture was percolated, during 60 minutes, into a solution of 28.0 g 0.27 mole of diethylene triamine in 100 g of ethyl alcohol. Stirring was carried out for half an hour at room temperature. The ethyl alcohol was distilled until a temperature of 1200c and a residual pressure of 10 mm Hg were obtained. There were obtained 128.0 g of a product having an amine number corresponding to 238 mg KOH g, and having the formula EMI6.1 wherein A is polyethylene glycol with a molecular weight of 400 EXAMPLE 2 348.0 g 2 moles of toluene diisocyanate TDI were introduced into a 4 neck flask having a capacity of 2,000 ml, equipped with stirrer, reflux cooler, dropping funnel and thermometer. It was heated to 800C and 1010.0 g 1 mole of polypropylene glycol having a molecular weight of 1,000 were added in 1.5 hours. On completion of such addition, the whole was kept at 80 C under stirring during 2 hours. It was cooled down to room temperature. 100 g of the resulting product were dissolved, at 50C, in 200 g of ethyl alcohol and then were gradually added, in 60 minutes, to a solution of 30.0 g of diethylene triamine in 100 g of ethyl alcohol. The whole was left under stirring during half an hour at room temperature. Ethyl alcohol was distilled until a temperature of 1200C and a residual pressure of 10 mm Hg were reached. Obtained were 121.0 of a product having an amine number corresponding to 237 mg KOH g, and having the formula EMI7.1 in which B is polypropylene glycol having a molecular weight of 1,000. EXAMPLE 3 150.0 g of the intermediate product of Example 2 obtained from the reaction of toluene diisocyanate with polypropylene glycol having a molecular weight of 1,000, were dissolved in 350 g of ethyl alcohol. The solution was added to a solution of 23 g of diethylene triamine dissolved in 100 g of ethyl alcohol. Ethyl alcohol was distilled until a temperature of 1200C and a residual pressure of 10 from Hg were reached. There were obtained 173 g of a product having an amine number corresponding to 165 mg KOH g and a formula like the one of Example 2. EXAMPLE 4 A formulation was prepared by mixing, at room temperature, diglycidyl ether of bisphenol A, having an equivalent weight per epoxy oxygen equal to about 200, with a polyamidoamine of formula 1 of the type and in the amounts as shown inTable I. The formulation was spread onto aluminum test pieces having a 3 mm thickness and a 25 mm width, which were coupled with each other with a 12 mm overlapping and by means of a pressure of about 15 N cm2, at 230C. Under these conditions, hardening took place in 48 hours. The characteristics of the formulation and of the joints after hardening are reported in Table I. EXAMPLE 5 A formulation was prepared by mixing, at room temperature, the triglycidyl derived from para amino phencil having an equivalent weight per epoxy oxygen equal to about 103, with a polyamidoamine of formula 1 of the type and in the amounts indicated in Table II. The operative modalities for the preparation of the test pieces are like those of Example 4 and the characteristics of the formulae are reported in Table II. TABLE IPolyamidoamine ofExample No. 1 1 1 2 2 2Weight ratios Epoxy resin polyamidoamine 1 1 1 1.25 1 1.6 1 0.8 1 1 1 1.2 Pot life at 230C, in minutes 60 50 45 50 40 35Resistance to shearing tensile stress in ciaN cm2 at temperatures of 237 C 115 127 162 131 127 121 80 C 54 23 6 40 45 27 30 OC 107 113 111 139 142 152 Determined according to standard ASTM D 1338 56, re approved in 1977 Procedure A Determined according to standard ASTM D 1002 72 re approved in 1978 TABLE IIPolyamidoamine of ExampleNo. 1 1 2 2Weight ratio Epoxy resin polyamidoamine 1 1.5 .1 2.3 1 2.5 1 4Pot life at 230C in minutes 60 50 75 60Resistance to shearing tensile stress in daN cm2 at a temperature of 230C 80 89 11 97Shore hardness A of the hardened formulate determined at 230C 97 99 97 99 94 97 90 92 as in Table I as in Table I