# A VULCANIZATION ACCELERATOR, A MEANS FOR ACCELERATING VULCANIZATION AND AN IMPROVED RUBBER PRODUCT CONTAINING SAID ACCELERATOR THEREIN

## Claims
Verwendung eines Vulkanisationsbeschleunigers zum Vulkanisieren eines mit Polyesterfasern verstärkten Kautschuks, wobei der Beschleuniger als wirksamen Bestandteil, der keine nachteilige Wirkung auf Polyesterfasern ausübt, eine Verbindung mit mindestens einer Dithiocarbamoylgruppe enthält, dargestellt durch die allgemeine Formel I

## Description
This invention relates to the use of a vulcanizing accelerator, more particularly to the use of a vulcanization accelerator having no adverse effect on polyester fiber used as a reinforcing agent for rubber. In rubber products such as tires, belts and hoses, fibers such as polyester, nylon, rayon and the like have heretofore been used as reinforcing materials. Among them, polyester resins have a high modulus of elasticity and an excellent dimentional stability, therefore in recent years, the demand for rubber products using polyester fibers has increased. In vulcanizing a rubber, in particular, a lower unsaturated rubber having a small number of double bonds such as isobutylene isoprene rubber or the like by using polyester fiber, there has heretofore been generally used a method using as a vulcanization accelerator a thiuram derivative such as tetramethylthiuram disulfide, tetraethylthiuram disulfide or tetramethylthiuram monosulfide because it is advantageous, for example, in that the vulcanization rate is rapid and that the vulcanization density of the product obtained is high. However, although the conventional thiuram type vulcanization accelerators have such advantages, they have a great disadvantage in that they have a deteriorating effect on polyester fibers and lower their strength, and improvement in this respect has been strongly desired Journal of The Society of Rubber Industry, Japan, Vol. 54, No. 2, p. 123 . In order to solve such problems, the present inventors have devoted themselves to research on vulcanization accelerators, and have consequently found that when a compound having a specific dithiocarbamoyl group is used, it hardly deteriorates polyester fibers, is by no means inferior to well known vulcanization accelerators in vulcanization rate and in the vulcanization density of the resulting vulcanized rubber, and is hence sufficiently satisfactory, whereby this invention has been accomplished. That is to say, an object of this invention is to provide the use of a very excellent vulcanization accelerator for vulcanizing a rubber reinforced with polyester fibers containing as an active ingredient exhibiting no adverse effect on polyester fibers an N substituted piperazyldithiocarbamoyl derivative shown by the general formula I wherein R¹ stands for an alkyl group having 1 to 12 carbon atoms, a cycloalkyl group having 3 to 8 carbon atoms, an aryl group having 6 to 12 carbon atoms or an aralkyl group having 7 to 13 carbon atoms, A stands for a group shown by the formula or for a metallic atom in which x represents zero or an integer of 1 to 5, R² is an alkyl group having 1 to 12 carbon atoms, a cycloalkyl group having 3 to 8 carbon atoms, an aryl group having 6 to 12 carbon atoms or an aralkyl group having 7 to 13 carbon atoms and n is one when A stands for a group shown by the formula and is an integer of 1 to 4 corresponding to the valency when A stands for a metallic atom. Another object of this invention is to provide a means for accelerating vulcanization which comprises adding to a rubber an N substituted piperazyldithiocarbamoyl derivative shown by the above general formula I and reinforcing the rubber with polyester fibers. Further another object of this invention is to provide an excellent rubber product by accelerating vulcanization by addition of the aforesaid compound with almost no deterioration of polyester fibers used together with rubber in tires. Such an N substituted piperazyldithiocarbamoyl derivative can easily be produced by a well known process, for example, the following process. One which is produced by a process other than said process, of course, is also employable in this invention. An N substituted piperazylthiuram derivative which is used for one of the embodiments of this invention can easily be produced by the well known process described below. A sodium dithiocarbamate derivative is produced by reacting N substituted piperazine with carbon disulfide in the presence of sodium hydroxide. Subsequently, the sodium dithiocarbamate derivative is oxidized, whereby the corresponding thiuram disulfide is produced. Then, said disulfide is reacted with potassium cyanide or the like, whereby the corresponding thiuram monosulfide can be produced. By reacting the aforesaid sodium dithiocarbamate derivative with sulfur monochloride, the corresponding thiuram polysulfide can also be produced. The metal N substituted piperazyldithiocarbamate which is used for another embodiment of this invention can easily be produced by the following process. A sodium dithiocarbamate derivative which is an intermediate is produced by reacting N substituted piperazine with carbon disulfide in the presence of sodium hydroxide. Subsequently, the reaction solution is reacted with an aqueous solution containing a metallic ion such as, for example, an aqueous zinc sulfate solution, whereby the corresponding metal salt of dithiocarbamic acid, such as zinc dithiocarbamate, can be produced. Other metals useful in this invention are e.g. copper, iron, cobalt, nickel, cadmium or mercury. The compound I having at least one N substituted piperazyldithiocarbamoyl group used in this invention includes, for example, thiuram monosulfides, thiuram disulfides, thiuram polysulfides and metal dithiocarbamates all obtained by using, as starting materials, N substituted piperazine derivatives, for example, N alkylpiperazines which are substituted on the nitrogen by an alkyl group such as methyl, ethyl, n propyl, i propyl, n butyl, i butyl, sec butyl, tert butyl, pentyl, amyl, hexyl, heptyl, octyl, nonyl, decyl, undecyl or dodecyl N cycloalkylpiperazines which are substituted on the nitrogen by a cyclopropyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl, cyclooctyl group or the like and N substituted piperazines which are substituted on the nitrogen by an aryl or aralkyl group such as phenyl, methylphenyl, ethylphenyl, propylphenyl, naphthyl, methylnaphthyl, benzyl or phenylethyl. Among them, thiuram derivatives or metal dithiocarbamates obtained by using N methylpiperazine as a starting material are preferred. The vulcanization accelerator used in this invention contains as an active ingredient a compound having at least one N substituted dithiocarbamoyl group which is shown by the above general formula I and such a compound shown by the general formula I may be used alone or in combination with guanidine derivatives such as diphenyl guanidine or ditolylguanidine thiazole derivatives such as mercaptobenzothiazole or dibenzothiazyl disulfide and or sulfenamide derivatives such as N cyclohexylbenzothiazylsulfenamide, N t butylbenzothiazylsulfenamide or N oxydiethylenebenzothiazylsulfenamide. In particular, simultaneous use of the compound shown by the general formula I and the guanidine derivatives and or thiazole derivatives is preferred because it yields a vulcanized rubber having high tensile stress and tensile strength. In using them together with the compound shown by the general formula I , they may be either used in the form of a mixture prepared by previously mixing them with said compound, or mixed therewith at the time of use. Although the vulcanization accelerator of this invention is usually used in lower unsaturated rubbers such as isobutylene isoprene rubber IIR , ethylene propylenediene rubber EPDM and the like, it can be used also in natural rubber NR , styrene butadiene rubber SBR , isoprene rubber IR , butadiene rubber BR , chloroprene rubber CR , acrylonitrile butadiene rubber NBR , etc. As to the amount of said vulcanization accelerator added to rubber, the vulcanization accelerator is used usually in an amount in the range from 0.1 to 10 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of rubber. In using the vulcanization accelerator of this invention, there may be, if necessary, used conventional additives, for example, zinc oxide, magnesium oxide, stearic acid, carbon black, silica, clay, sulfur, process oils, antioxidants, etc. This invention is further explained in more detail referring to Examples and Referential Examples, which are not by way of limitation but by way of illustration. With 30 g of N methylpiperazine were mixed 90 g of water and 43 g of sodium hydroxide, and the temperature of the resulting solution was lowered to 7 C. While maintaining the solution temperature at 7 to 10 C, 25 g of carbon disulfide was added dropwise. A solution of 99 g of potassium ferricyanide in 400 g of water was added dropwise to the resulting solution at 5 to 10 C over a period of 1 hour. The deposited crystals were separated by filtration, and washed with water. There was obtained 48.7 g of white powder yield 92.6 , m.p. 148 149 C. Elementary analysis values for bis N methylpiperazyl thiuram disulfide With 49 g of N phenylpiperazine were mixed 90 g of water and 43 g of sodium hydroxide, and the temperature of the resulting solution was lowered to 7 C. While maintaining the solution temperature at 7 to 10 C, 25 g of carbon disulfide was added dropwise. A solution of 99 g of potassium ferricyanide in 400 g of water was added dropwise to the resulting solution at 5 to 10 C over a period of 1 hour. The deposited crystals were separated by filtration, and washed with water. There was obtained 64.9 g of white powder yield 91.0 . Elementary analysis values for bis N phenylpiperazyl thiuram disulfide With 20 g of N methylpiperazine were mixed 80 g of water and 8 g of sodium hydroxide, and the temperature of the resulting solution was lowered to 7 C. While maintaining the solution temperature at 7 to 10 C, 17 g of carbon disulfide was added dropwise. A solution of 19 g of zinc sulfate in 100 ml of water was added dropwise to the resulting solution while maintaining the temperature of the latter solution at 30 to 35 C. The deposited crystals were separated by filtration, and washed with water. There was obtained 39.5 g of white powder yield 95.0 , m.p. 254 256 C. Elementary analysis values for zinc N methylpiperazyldithiocarbamate In the same manner as described above, there can be obtained the following compounds With 32 g of N phenylpiperazine were mixed 90 g of water and 8 g of sodium hydroxide, and the temperature of the resulting solution was lowered to 7 C. While maintaining the solution temperature at 7 to 10 C, 17 g of carbon disulfide was added dropwise. A solution of 18 g of cupric sulfate in 100 ml of water was added dropwise to the resulting solution while maintaining the temperature of the latter solution at 30 to 35 C. The deposited crystals were separated by filtration, and washed with water. There was obtained 50.0 g of light brown powder yield 94.2 . This product decomposed at 200 C or higher. Elementary analysis values for copper N phenylpiperazyldithiocarbamate A rubber composition was prepared according to the following recipe by mixing by means of an open roll in a conventional manner. A part of the rubber composition thus obtained was used, and a 1500 d 2 polyester cord was embedded near the surface of a sheet of the rubber composition, which was then vulcanized at 150 C at 90 kg cm² for 40 minutes. Subsequently, a part of the polyester cord was drawn out from the vulcanized product thus obtained, after which the vulcanized product was heat treated at 175 C for 2 hours. Then, the residual polyester cord was drawn out therefrom, and the strengths of the polyester cord before and after the heat treatment were measured according to JIS K 6301. The results obtained are shown in Table 3. By use of the residual rubber composition, Mooney scorch test was carried out according to JIS K 6300, and the vulcanization properties were measured according to ASTM D 2084 and the tensile properties according to JIS K 6301. The results of these tests and measurements are also shown in Table 3. A compounded rubber was prepared according to the following recipe in the same manner as in Example 1 and tested in the same manner as in Example 1. The results obtained are shown in Table 5. A compounds rubber was prepared according to the following recipe in the same manner as in Example 1 and tested in the same manner as in Example 1. The results obtained are shown in Table 7.