# Diaminoalcohols, their preparation and their use as acid gas removal agents.

## Abstract
A diaminoalcohol of the formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A diaminoalcohol having the formula EMI30.1 wherein R1 is a secondary alkyl group having from three to five carbon atoms, R2 is an alkyl group having from one to three carbon atoms, R3 and R4 are independently hydrogen or methyl groups and R1 and R2 are selected so that the total number of carbon atoms in R1 and R2 is no greater than six. 2. A diaminoalcohol according to claim 1 having no more than 11 carbon atoms per molecule. 3. A diaminoalcohol according to either of claims 1 and 2 wherein R1 is an isopropyl group, R2 is a methyl, ethyl or isopropyl group and R3 and R4 are hydrogen. 4. A diaminoalcohol according to any one of the preceding claims in combination with a tertiary amino compound. 5. A diaminoalcohol according to any one of claims 1 to 3 in combination with methyl diethanolamine. 6. A diarrinoalroilol according to any one of claims 1 to 3 in combination with a solvent selected from water, a physical absorbent and a mixture thereof. 7. A diaminoalcohol according to any one of claims 1 to 3 in combination with a physical solvent comprising a sulphone, a sulphoxide, a glycol or a mono or di ether of a glycol and in combination with an additive selected from antifoaming agents, antioxidants and corrosion inhibitors. 8. A diaminoalcohol in combination with a solvent according to either of claims 6 and 7 which contains about 0.1 to 5 moles per liter of said solvent and from 0.1 to 6 moles per liter of said diaminoalcohol. 9. A process for removing C02 and other acid gases from a normally gaseous mixture, which comprises a contacting said normally gaseous mixture under C02 absorption conditions with an absorbent solution comprising a diaminoalcohol according to any one of claims 1 to 3 and b desorbing at least a portion of the absorbed C02 from said solution. 10. A process according to claim 9 wherein the contacting step is conducted at a temperature ranging from about 20 to 100 C and at a pressure ranging from about 5 to 2000 psia and the desorption step is conducted by heating the solution at a temperature ranging from about 50 to 170 C and at a pressure ranging from 0.5 to 100 psia. 11. A process for preparing a diaminoalcohol of the formula EMI32.1 where R1 is a secondary alkyl group having from three to five carbon atoms, R2 is an alkyl group having from one to thre.e carbon atoms and R1 and R2 are selected so that the total number of carbon atoms in R1 and R2 is no greater than six comprising the steps of a reacting acrylonitrile with a 2 amino ethanol of the formula EMI32.2 wherein R2 is an alkyl group having one to three carbon atoms to form a nitrilo aminoethanol of the formula EMI32.3 and b reacting the nitrilo aminoethanol from step a with k e t 0 re c on t a i n i n g from three to five carbon atoms under hydrogenation conditi ons in the presence of hydrogen gas and a hydrogenation catalyst until the diamino alcohol is produced. 12. A process according to claim 11 wherein step a is carried out at a temperature no greater than 1300C and step b is carried out from 30 700C at 150 1400 psi pressure using Raney nickel as catalyst.

## Description
This invention relates to diaminoalcohols. Accordingly, this invention relates to diaminoalcohols containing a t e r t i a ry amino group and a sterically hindered secondary amino group separated by three carbon atoms, which are useful when combined with a solvent in removing acidic gases, i.e., CO2 and H2S, from normally gaseous mixtures. This invention also relates to a novel two step process for preparing these diaminoalcohols and di secondary aminoalcohol homol ogues. It is well known in the art to treat gases, such as mixtures containing acidic gases including C02, H2S, CS2, HCN, COS and oxygen and sulfur derivatives ofC1 to C4 hydrocarbons with amine solutions to remove these acidic gases. The amine usually contacts the acidic gases as an aqueous solution containing the amine in an absorber tower with the aqueous amine solution contacting the acidic gases counter currently. The treatment of acid gas mixtures with amine solutions typically results in the simultaneous removal of substantial amounts of the acid gases. For example, in one such process generally referred to as the aqueous amine process, relatively concentrated amine solutions are employed. A recent improvement on this process involves the use of sterically hindered amines as described in U.S. Patent No. 4,112,052 to obtain nearly complete removal of acid gases such as CO2 and H2S. This type of process may be used where the partial pressures of the CO2 and related gases are low. Another process often used for specialized applications where the partial pressure of CO2 is extremely high and or where many acid gases are present, e.g., H2S, COS, CH3SH and CS2 involves the use of an amine in combination with a physical absorbent, generally referred to as the non aqueous solvent procress. An improvement on this process involves the use of steri cal ly hindered amines, including aminoalcohols, and organic sol vents as the physical absorbent such as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,112,051 and 4,100,257. Examples of non sterically hindered primary and secondary ami noacohol 5 which have also been effectively employed for absorbing acid gases are monoethanol amine, diethanolamine, dipropanolamine, hydroxy ethoxyethylamine, diisopropanolamine, methyldiethanol amine and dimethyl monoethanolamine. Other patents which describe use of alkanolamines in acid gas scrubbing are U.S. Pat. Nos.3,954,873 3,959,170 4,074,013 4,096,085 and 4,217,238. U.S. 4,217,238 describes the use of certain sterically hindered aliphatic diaminoalcohols to remove acid gases while U.S. 3,954,873 describes a di tertiaryamino alcohol having three hydroxy groups as useful for this purpose. U.S. Pat. No. 3,197,510 describes compounds useful as lube oil additives having the formula EMI3.1 where R and R are alkyl groups and the total number of carbon atoms between them is 2 50, n is 2 4 R is H or an C2 Cg alkyl group. These compounds are prepared by a reductive al kyl ati on of a ketone and an ami noal kyl al kanol amine. Also disclosed as useful as a lubricating oil additive in U.S. Pat. No. 3,869,145 is a diaminoalcohol with a shorter chain than that of U.S. 3,197,510 where the nitrogen atoms are in the 3 and 6 positions. U.S. Pat. No. 3,288,748 discloses a stabilizer for polyolefins of the formula EMI3.2 A new diaminoalcohol has now been discovered which contains three methylene groups between a secondary and tertiary amine and is useful for C02 and H2S removal in both aqueous amine processes and non aqueous solvent processes. More specifically, the present invention relates to a diaminoalcohol composition having the formula EMI3.3 wherein R1 is a secondary alkyl group having from three to five carbon atoms, R2 is an alkyl group haring from one to three carbon atoms R3 and R4 are independently hydrogen or methyl groups and R1 and R2 are selected so that the total number of carbon atoms in R1 and R2 is no greater than six. Preferably the total number of carbon atoms in the diaminoalcohol is no more than 1l. These compositions especially those where R3 and R4 are hydrogen, may be prepared by a process comprising the steps of a reacting acrylonitrile with a 2 aminoethanol of the formula EMI4.1 where R2 is an alkyl group having one to three carbon atoms, to form a nitrilo 2 aminoethanol of the formula EMI4.2 and b reacting the nitrilo aminoethanol from step a with a ketone containing from three to five carbon atoms under hydrogenation conditions in the presence of hydrogen gas and a hydrogenation catalyst until the appropriate product is obtained. When combined with a solvent selected from water, a physical absorbent or a mixture thereof, these diaminoalcohols form absorbent solutions which are useful in removing acid gases from a normally gaseous mixture. The process involves contacting the normally gaseous mixture, under conditions whereby the acid gases are absorbed therefrom with the absorbent solution and desorbing at least a portion of the absorbed acid gases from the solution. The analogous di secondary aminoalcohols of the prior art exhibit substantially inferior properties under CO2 removal conditions because we believe the amine degrades much faster. In addition, if the total number of carbon atoms in the diaminoalcohol exceeds 11 as in U.S. Pat. 3,288,748, the amine exhibits two phases at typical desorption temperatures and thus is useless for acid gas scrubbing. The diaminoalcohols herein show comparable CO2 removal properties as those compounds described inU.S. Pat. No. 4,112,051 and 4,112,052, however, the class of compounds herein described is superior to these latter compounds in their stability against degradation under C02 rich conditions. In the drawings Fig. 1 is a diagrammatic flow sheet illustrating an experimental reaction apparatus for removing carbon dioxide from gas streams. The diaminoalcohols of this invention have the formula EMI5.1 where 21 is a secondary altyl group having from three to five carbon atoms, preferably an isopropyl group R2 is an alkyl group having rom one to three carbon atoms, preferably a methyl, ethyl or isopropyl group a d R3 and R4 are independently hydrogen or methyl. TheR2 group may thus be straight chain nr branched alkyl groups. Tb ensure that the compounds will be useful as acidic gas removing agents, the total number of carbon atoms in the compounds should not exceed 11 and preferably R3 and R4 are hydrogen. The total number of carhon atoms in R1 and R2 rmst be no greater than six.If the total number of carbon atoms exceeds this maximum, the compounds will not be soluble under acidic gas absorption conditions. Examples of suitable compounds herein are 3,7 diaza 3,8 dimethyl 1 nonanol, 3,7 diaza 3 ethyl8 methyl 1 nonanol, 3,7 diaza 3 isopropyl 8 methyl 1 nonanol, 3,7 diaza 3,8 dimethyl 1 decanol, and the like. The most preferred compounds herein are the following EMI6.1 This novel class of compounds can be prepared by at least two different methods. In a threestep method for preparing the compounds, a 2 secondary aminoethanol of the formula EMI6.2 were R2 is is an alkyl group having from one to three carbon atoms is first reacted with acrylonitrile to form a nitrilo tertiary ami noethanol of the formula EMI7.1 Typically this reaction may be conducted by adding the acrylonitrile slowly i.e., over a period of hours depending on the quantity of material to the amino alcohol.Because the reaction is exothermic, the temperature of the reaction mixture will increase as more acrylonitrile is added. There is no need to apply an external source of heat to the reaction mixture. The apparatus employed for this step generally is equipped with a stirring mechanism, a condenser to prevent loss of material, a dropping funnel through which the acrylonitrile is added, and a thermometer to monitor the temperature. The temperature preferably should not be allowed to exceed about 1300C during the addition of the acrylonitrile and may be controlled by applying an external cooling source. More preferably, the temperature should not exceed about 100 C. After the addition is complete the product is generally allowed to cool to room temperature. In the second step of this three step method the unpurified nitrilo compound from the first step is reduced to form a primary amine from the nitrilo group.This reduction is generally carried out in an autoclave by means of hydrogenation. This hydrogenation step may be conducted by any means known in the art. In one technique the nitrilo compound is diluted with an inert solvent such as mefihano1 or ethanol and placed in an autoclave together with a base, such as NaOH, and a hydrogenation atalyst wh i ch may be, e.g., Pd on carbon or Raney nickel. The catalyst is ordinarily prewashed before use with the solvent being employed. The hydrogenation is then conducted by introducing hydrogen gas into the reaction vessel and increasing the temperature and pressure. Generally the temperature may range from about 30 C to 100 C, preferably 30 C to about 55 C, and the pressure from about 100 to about 1500 psi, pre ferably about 150 to about 1400 psi.The amount of time required for hydrogenation will vary with the temperature, pressure, and catalyst employed, but generally will be at least about 2 hours. To recover the hydrogenated product from the reaction mixture one separates the solvent from the product by an appropriate means, e.g., distillation. The product may be purified from the pot residue by, e.g., fractionation through a column or by other means of purification. In the third step of the process herein the hydrogenated product primary amine is alkylated so as to form a secondary amino group so that the final pro duct contains both a secondary and a tertiary amine. The alkylation takes place by reacting the primary amine with a ketone containing three to five carbon atoms which represents the R1 group and is preferably acetone under hydrogenation conditions. Thus, typi cally the product of the second step, the ketone and the hydrogenation catalyst are charged into an auto crave and hydrogenation takes place as described above. The catalyst is then separated from the mixture by filtration and the filtrate is distilled to yield the purified product. An alternative procedure for preparing the diaminbalcohols of this invention is two step method wherein the hydrogenation and alkyaltion steps are combined so as to occur simultaneously. This method is a preferred method over the three step method by elimi nating a lengthy step of preparing the primary amine intermediate. This method not only may be used to prepare the novel class of secondary tertiary diaminoalcohols of this invention but also the analogous disecondary aminoalcohols, which had previously only been prepared by a three step method. This two step method is useful for preparing not only the gas treating agents of this invention but also the commercially useful aminoalcohols described by U,S. Pat. 3,197,510 useful as oil well additives. In the first step of this alternative procedure acrylonitrile is reacted with a 2 ami noethanol of the formula EMI9.1 where R2 is an alkyl group having one to three carbons, to form a nitrilo 2 aminoethanol of the formula EMI9.2 This reaction is carried out in the same manner as described above for the first step of the three step method, the only difference being that the 2 amino e t h a n 0 1 reagent here may b e a pri ma ry as well as a secondary amino alcohol. In the second step of this two step method the unpurified nitrilo compound from the first step is smultanebusly reduced and alkylated to a secondary amine. Thus the nitrile compound is reacted with a ketone containing from three to five carbon atoms as described above for the three step method under hydro genation conditions in the presence of hydrogen gas and a hydrogenation catalyst until the appropriate product is obtained. In this step typically the nitrilo compound is mixed with the appropriate ketone and placed in an autoclave together with a hydrogenation catalyst such as, e.g., Pd on carbon or Raney nickel, and the appropriate ketone. The preferred catalyst for use herein is Raney nickel. The Raney nickel is preferably prewashed with the ketone and the Pd on C may be prewashed with water.The hydrogenation is then conducted by introducing hydrogen gas into the reaction vessel and increasing the temperature and pressure. Generally, the temperature will range from about 300C to about 1300C, preferably about 300C to about 700C, and the pressure from about 100 to about 1500 psi, preferably about 150 to about 1400 psi. The amount of time required for hydrogenation will vary with the temperature and pressure employed, but generally will be at least about 2 hours. The amount of product may be monitored by use of a gas chromatograph. The hydrogenation may also be accomplished in batches wherein the batches are later combined. After the hydrogenation is complete the product may be recovered by any suitable means. Typically, the reaction mixture is filtered through a funnel, such as a pre coatedBuechner funnel, and concentrated by use of a column or a vacuum so as to remove the low boiling materials. The residue is then distilled so as to obtain the purified product. The aminoalcollols of this invention may be employed for the absorption of acidic gases. More spec if i cal l y, acidic gases may be removed from a nor mally gaseous mixture i. e ., gaseous under ambient conditins by contacting the mixture under absorption conditions with an absorbent solution containing the diaminoalcohol and desorbing at least a portion of the absorbed acidic gases from the solution. The regenerated solution obtained on desorption may then be recycled by contacting it with a fresh mixture if a continuous process is being conducted. The absorbent solution will contain a solvent in addition to the aminoalcohol. Preferably, but not exclusively, this solvent is water, a physical absorbent or a mixture of water and physical absorbent.Solvents which are physical absorbents as opposed to the aminoalcohols, which are chemical absorbents are described, for example, in U.S. Pat. No. 4,112,051, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. These solvents include, e.g., aliphatic acid aides, N alkylated pyrrolidones, sulfones, sulfoxides, glycols and the mono and diethers thereof.The preferred physical absorbents herein are sul fones and most particularly, sulfol ane. The absorbent solution generally has a concentration of diaminoalcohol of about 0.1 to 6 mols per liter of the total solution, and preferably 1 to 4 mols per liter, depending primarily on the specific diaminoalcohol employed and the solvent system utilized. If the solvent system is a mixture of water and a physical absorbent, the typical effective amount of the physical absorbent employed may vary from 0.1 to 5 mol s per liter of total solution, and preferably from 0.5 to 3 mols per liter, depending mainly on the type of diaminoalcohol being utilized. The absorbent solution of this invention m ay include a variety of additives typically employed in gas removal processes, e.g., anti foaming agents, antioxidants, corrosion inhibitors, and the like. Examples of such additives include arsenious anhydride, sele nious and tell urdus acid, amino acids, e.g., glycine, vanadium oxides, e.g., V205, etc. The amount of these additives will typically be in the range that they are effective, i.e., an effective amount. Also, the diaminoalcohols described herein may be admixed with other amino compounds, e.g. tertiary amino compounds, diaminoethers, aminoethers, aminoalcohols and the like which are known acid gas removing agents, as a blend.The particular amino compound to be admixed with the diaminoalcohols will depend for example, on the particular acidic gas es to be removed. One preferred such compound is methyldi ethanol amine. The ratio of the respective amino compounds may vary widely, for example, from 1 99 to 99 1 mol percent of each amino compound. The acidic gas, which usually contains C02 may also include such gases as H2S, S02, S03, CS2, HCN, COS, and the oxygen and sulfur derivatives of C1 to C4 hydrocarbons in various amounts as they frequently appear in gaseous mixtures. These acid gases other than CO2 may be present in trace amounts within the gaseous mixture. The absorption step of this invention generally involves contacting the gaseous stream with the absorbent solution in any suitable contacting vessel. In such processes, the normally gaseous mixture from which the acid gases are to he removed may be brought into intimate contact with the absorbent solu tion us i hg c6riven t i onal means, suc h as a tower or vessel packed with, for example rings or with sieve plates, or a bubble reactor. In a preferred mode of practising the invention, the absorption step is conducted by feeding the gaseous mixture into the lower portion or base of the absorption tower while fresh and or regenerated absorbent solution is fed into the upper region of the tower. The gaseous mixture, freed largely of the acid gases, e.g., C02, emerges from the upper portion of the tower. Preferably, the inlet temperature of the absorbent solution during the absorption step is in the range of from about 20 to about 100 C, and more preferably from 40 to about 6O0C. Pressures may vary widely acceptable pressures are between 5 and 2000 psi a, preferably 100 to 1500 psia, and most preferably 200 to 1000 psia in the absorber.The contacting takes place under conditions such that the C02 is absorbed by the solution. During absorption the solution is maintained in a single phase. A preferred procedure for the removal phase of the process comprises absorbing CO2 via countercurrent contact of the gaseous mixture with the aqueous solution of the diaminoalcohol in a column containing a plurality of trays at a low temperature, e.g., below 450C, and at a gas velocity of at least about 0.3 ft sec based on active or aerated tray surface , depending on the operating pressure of the gas, said tray colui n having fewer than 20 contracting trays, with, e.g., 4 16 trays being typically employed. After contacting the gaseous mixtlire with the absorbent solution, which becomes saturated or partially saturated with the acidic gases such as C02, the solution may be at least partially regenerated so that it may be recycled back to the absorber. As with absorption, the regeneration should take place in a single liquid phase. Regeneration or desorption of the C02 from the absorbent solution may be accomplished by conventional means such as pressure reduction or temperature increase of the solution to a point at which the absorbed CO2 flashes off, or by passing the solution into a vessel of similar construction to that used in the absorption step, at the upper portion of the vessel, and passing an inert gas such as air or nitrogen or preferably steam upward through the vessel.The temperature of the solution during the regeneration step is preferably in the range from about 50 to about 1700C, and more preferably from about 80 to 1500, and the pressure of the solution on regeneration should range from about 0.5 to about 100 psi a, preferably 1 to about 50 psi a. The absorbent solution, after being cleansed of at least a portion of the C02, may be recycled back to the absorbing vessel. Makeup absorbent may be added as needed. In the preferred regeneration technique, the COz rich solution from the high pressure absorber is sent first to a flash chamber where steam and some CO2 flashed off will in general be about 35 to 40 of the net C02 recovered in the flash and stripper. Solution from the flash drum is then steam stripped in the packed or plate tower, stripping steam having been generated in the reboiler in the base of the stripper. Pressure in the flash drum and stripper is usually 1 to about 50 psia, preferably 15 to about 30 psi a, and the temperature is typically in the range from about 50 to 170oC, preferably about 80 to 1500C. Stripper and flash temperatures will, of course, depend on stripper pressure th us at about 15 to 30 psia stripper p r es sures, the temperature will be about 80 to about 150 C during ,de,sorption. Heating of the solution to be regenerated may very suitably be effected by means of indirect heating with low pressure steam.It is also possible, however, to use direct injection steam. In the most preferred embodiment of the present invention, substantially complete removal of carbon dioxide and acidic gases from a normally gaseous feed containing CO2 is accomplished by a continuous process which comprises, in sequential steps 1 contacting said feed with an aqueous scrubbing solution consisting essentially of the diaminoalcohol herein and water and or physical absorbent, diaminoalcohol concentration in said solution is in the range from about 1 to 6 molar, preferably 3 to about 5 molar, said contacting being conducted at conditions whereby the carbon dioxide in the feed gas is absorbed in said scrubbing solution, and preferably at temperatures ranging from about 200 to about 100oC, more preferably from about 400 to about 60oC, and at a pressure ranging from about 5 to about 2000 psig, preferably 100 to about 1500 psig, and most preferably 200 to about 1000 psig, and 2 regenerating said scrubbing solution at conditions whereby said CO2 is desorbed from said scrubbing solution, preferably at temperatures ranging from about 500 to about 1700C, and more preferably from 800 to about 1500C, and at a pressure ranging from ahot 1 to to abou 50 psia and more preferably from about 15 to about 30 psi a. The process herein may be operated as described in U.S. Pat. No. 4,112,052, i.e., under conditions whereby the difference between t he moles o f CO2 absorbed at the end of step a absorption step and the moles of CO2 absorbed at the end of step 2 desorption step would he greater at the thermodynamic equilibrium of the vapor liquid system as determined from the vapor liquid equilibrium isotherm of the reaction mixture than in an aqueous amine C02 scrubbing process wherein monoethanolamine is the only amine utilized under substantially the same conditions of gaseous feed composition, scrubbing solution composition, temperatures, pressures and amine concentration.The regenerated amine scrubbing solution may thereafter be recycled to the absorber as it is or it may be combined with fresh makeup scrubbing solution. The time of contacting the gaseous mixture with the aqueous amine scrubbing solution is an effective amount of time. That is for an amount of time required to remove a predetermined amount of acid gases. After contacting the gaseous mixture with the aqueous amine scrubbing solution until a capacity of at least 80 or preferably at least 90 of the solution is utilized it must be regenerated. Regeneration of the aqueous amine scrubbing absorption solution may be accomplished by decreasing the pressure and or increasing the temperature of the scrubbing solution to a point at which the absorbed carbon dioxide flashes off. The addition of an inert gas, e.g., N2 or steam during the regeneration of the scrubbing solution is also within the scope of the present invention. The process of regeneration is more particularly described in U.S. Pat. No. 3,848,057, herein incorporated by reference. It is possible, of course, to emp1 oy the process of the present invention in conjunction with other acid gas scrubbing processes.. For example, solutions rich in carbon dioxide may be first scrubbed by a bulk scrubbing process using the hot pot process as described in, e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 4,217,238, and then treated in accordance with the present process to remove the last residues of the carbon dioxide containing gases. The diaminoalcohols to be employed should be chosen on the basis of how many total carbon atoms they contain so as to ensure that they have the requisite sol u b i 1 i ty i.e., one phase under a b so r p t i on and desorption conditions . In addition, the diaminoalcohols chosen preferably have a relatively low volatility so that it will not be lost during absorption and desorption. Preferably, the diaminoalcohols herein will have a boiling point of at least 1000C, and preferably at least 1800C. The following examples illustrate the efficacy of the invention. In these examples all parts and percentages are given by weight and all temperatures in degress Celsius unless otherwise noted.EXAMPLE 1Two Step Preparation of 3,7 diaza 3 ethyl 8 methyl1 nonanol DEMN A total of 2 kg 22.5 moles 2 ethylamino ethanol was placed i n a 5 liter, 3 neck round bottom flask equipped with stirrer, condenser, dropping funnel and the rnometer to which 1 248 g 23.5 moles ,f acrylonitrile was added over two hours. During this addition the temperature was not allowed to exceed 940C. The adduct thus obtained was divided into five 640 g portions. Each portion was diluted to 2.2 liters with acetone and hydrogenated over Raney nickel at 100OC and 700 1200 psi in a 1 gallon autoclave. The total amount of nickel employed was 116.6 g. Each batch so obtained was filtered through a pre coated Buechner funnel and concentrated using a water pump. A total amount of 2927.8 g of DEMN boiling at 80 83 C 0.4 mm Hg was obtained. The total yield of product was 69.5 based on the starting ethylamino ethanol EXAMPLE 2Preparation of 3,7 diaza 3,8 dimethyl 1 nonanol DON A total of 2 kg 26.6 moles of 2 methylaminoethanol was placed in the flask described inExample 1. From the dropping funnel 1553 g 29.3 moles of acrylonitrile were added in the course of two hours. The temperature reached 1200C. The resulting adduct was hydrogenated in batches in the presence of acetone. Thus, 505.7 g samples of the adduct were diluted to 2.2 liters with acetone and charged into a 1 gallon autoclave. A total of 49 g of Raney nickel was washed three times with 250 ml portions of acetone and placed in the autoclave.Hydrogenation was carried out at 50 65 C and 400 1400 psi until the gas chromatograph showed only one product present. The catalyst was removed by filtration and the low boiling materials were stripped using a water pump. The product, DDN distilled at 1320.C 20 mm Hg in an amount of 510 g 75 of theoretical yield . EXAMPLE 3Preparation of 3,7 diaza 3 isopropyl 8 methyl 1 nonanol A total of 429 g 2.7 moles of 3,7 diaza8 methyl nonanol obtained commercially was placed into a 1 gallon autoclave with 2 liters of acetone and 7.5 g of 5 Pt on C, wet with water. Hydrogenation was carried out at 50 680C and 850 1200 psi for 8 hours. A total pressure drop of 1600 psi was observed. After cooling, the contents of the autoclave were filtered and concentrated to a pot temperature of 1600C using a 30 cm column. Distillation was continued using a water pump. A total of 407.4 g 75 yield of product was obtained boiling at 142oC 15 mm Hg.Elemental analysis yielded 64.6 C, 13.08 H, 13.5 N, with the theoretical values being 65.3 C, 12.95 H and 13.85 N. ExAmPLE 4Three Step Preparation of 3,7 diaza 3 ethyl 8 methyl l nonanol DEMN A total of 2 kg 22.4 moles of 2 ethylaminoethanol was charged into the apparatus employed inExample 1. Thereafter 1650 ml 25 moles of acrylonitrile was added in the course of 4.5 hours. The temperature rose from room teluperature to 100 C. The adduct product was then allowed to cool to room temperature overnight. The total amount of the above identified adduct was divided into three parts of 1108 g each for reduction to be carried out in a 1 gallon autoclave. The first 1108 g of the adduct was diluted to 2 liters with methanol. The solution was then placed into a 1 gallon autoclave together with 5 g of sodium hydroxide pellets and 155 g of Raney nickel previously washed with three 300 ml portions of methanol . Hydrogenation was carried out at i000 1400 psi and 30 40 C for seven hours. The product was filtered from the catalyst. The second 1108 g of the adduct was hydrogenated as described above except that 213 g of Raney nickel were employed. Hydrogenation was complete in 2 hours at 38 440C and 650 1300 psi. The third 1108 g of the adduct was hydrogenated over 204 g of Raney nickel for two hours at 150 10000 psi at a maximum temperature of 51oC. The three hydrogen at i on products were com hi ned and distilled to remove methanol completely. A total of 2300 g of the product N ethyl N hydroxyethyl1,3 propanediamine boiling at 88 900C 0.05 mm Hg was obtained. Approximately one liter of pot residue was discarded. The diaminoalcohol was fractionated through a 30 cm column, and 2109 g 64.5 yield of the purified product was obtained having a boiling point of 1280C 15 mm Hg. In the third step 1 kg of this purified product, 1 liter of acetone and 5 g of 10 Pd on carbon were charged in Åa i llon autoclave. The hydrogen tion was carried out at 30 350C and 900 1300 psi for 4 hours A second kg of the purified product was hydrogenated in the same manner for 1.3 hours at 350C using 10 g of 10 Pd C. The two hydrogenation products were combined, the catalyst was separated by filtration and the filtrate was distilled. An amount of 2282 g of the final alkylated product DEMN were obtained, boiling at 112 113oC 20 mm Hg. The yield in the hydrogenation step was 88.3 .EXAMPLE 5Preparation of 3,7 diaza 3,8 dimethyl 1 decanol A total of 462.7 g of N 3 aminopropyl Nmethylaminoethanol 3.5 mols is diluted to 1.7 liters with methyl ethyl ketone MEK , then to 2 liters with methanol. 10 g of 10 Pd on C is added. Hydrogenation is carried out at 900 1100 psi 630 psi of hydrogen is absorbed within 30 minutes. The catalyst was separated by filtration and the solvent was stripped at the water pump up to 1600C 34mm. The product is distilled at 1450C 15mm Hg and amounts to 508 g 77.2 yield . Elemental analysis gave 62.4 C, 12.69 H, 14.6 N, the theoretical values being 63.8 C, 12.85 H and 14.9 N.EXAMPLE 6Use 6f biaminoalcohols in CO2 Gas Treating The experimental reaction apparatus used is shown in FIG 1. It is a reaction vessel V having a capacity of about 2.5 liters and a diameter of 10 cm, equipped with a heating jacket. The stirrer shaft carries two three blade propellers, of which the upper one pushes the liquid downward and the lower one pushes the liquid upward. Pump P1 removes z i liquid from the bottom of the reaction vessel and feeds it back to the gas liquid interface through a stainless steel sparger S1. Vertical baffles further increase the contact between liquid and gas. Thermocouple T permits the reading of the temperature of the liquid. The top of a reflux condenser C is connected to a U shaped, open ended manometer M.The apparatus can be evacuated by means of pump P2 through tap T1. Nitrogen and CO2 can be fed to the bottom of the reaction vessel through sparger S2, using tap T2 C02, coming from a cylinder, goes first through the reservoir tank R acting as a ballast, then through a 3 1 wet test meter WTM, then through bubbler B1, where it is saturated with water. H bubbler B2 ensures that no air is sucked into the reservoir tank R. Constriction such as narrow tubings and taps have been carefully avoided in the CO2 path. Tap T2, which is the only one inserted in such a path, has a key with large holes 8 mm .DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF ABSORPTIONPESORPTION REABSORPTION EXPERIMENTS Various 5 olutions weighinc 766 g containing 55 wt. of the amine set forth in Table I below, 30X H20, and 156 sulfolane were individually put into the absorber and pumped around at a rate of 4 liters ninutes until their temperature was 400C. At this point the cell was evacuated until the solution began to boil. Tap T1 was then closed, the stirrer started, and CO2 admitted. Each run was continued until adsorption of one liter of C02 took more than 10 minutes. The resulting rich solution was transferred to the desorber and brought to reflux. At this point nitrogen was fed to the bottom of the desorber at a rate of about 0.2 liters minute. Refluxing was continued for 15 minutes. The regenerated solution was then transferred back to the absorber and pumped around until its temperature reached 400C. The cell was then evacuated until the solution began to boil. Tap T1 was closed, the stirrer started, and CO2 admitted. Each run was again stopped when absorption of one liter of CO2 took more than 10 minutes. The total amount of C02 absorbed for each amine is set forth in Table I below. TABLE I C02 ABSORPTION STIRRED CELL 55 Amine, 30 H20, 15 SulfolaneAmine CO2 Reabsorbed, LitersEMI24.1 EXAMPLE 7Stability of Diaminoalcohols Three solutions containing 55 of the diaminoalcohol indicated in Table II, 30 H20 and 155 sulfolane by weight were charged in 9 bomb and loaded with CO2 in the indicated amount. The solutions were then measured for the percent of amino alcohol pre sent therein and then aged in ampoules at 1400C for 16 days. After the aging the percent of diamino amino alcohol in each solution was determined. TABLE II EMI26.1 SEP Stability SEP of SEP Diaminoalcohols tb SEP Initial SEP Solation SEP Solation SEP After SEP Aging tb SEP Aminda SEP cohol SEP Loaded SEP with SEP CO2 SEP at SEP 140 C SEP for SEP 16 SEP days tb SEP SEP Amine SEP SEP CO2 SEP SEP Amine tb SEP CH3 tb H3C CH NH CH2CH2CH2NHCH2CH2OH SEP 52.6 SEP 6.45 SEP SEP 10 tb SEP CH3 SEP CH2CR3 tb H3C CH NH CH2CH2CH2NCH2NCH2CH2OH SEP 48.9 SEP 8.9 SEP 29.6 tb SEP OPN tb SEP CH3 SEP CH3 tb H3C CH NH CH2 CH2CH2CH2NCH2CH2OH SEP 47.1 SEP 8.6 SEP 24.5 tb SEP OPN tb Comparative SEP Example tb The results show that although less C02 was employed in the case of the di secondary aminoalcohol, the secondary tertiary aminoalcohols of this invention were far superior in their stability toward C02, as indicated by the higher percentage of amine present after aging. Thus, the aminoalcohols of this invention exhibit improved stability, under acid gas removal conditions as compared to the di secondary aminoalcohol of the type disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 3,197,510.EXAMPLE 8Solubility of Diaminoalcohols Six solutions containing 55 of the do amino alcohol indicated in Table III, 30 H20 and 15 sul fol ane by weight were charged into a flask and heated to reflux at 1020C. The number of phases present at reflux and at room temperature were measured and the results are indicated in Table III. TABLE III EMI28.1 SEP Aminoalcohol SEP Nomber SEP of SEP Phases tb SEP Room SEP lemp SEP 102 C tb SEP CH3 SEP CH3 tb H3C CH NHCH2CH2CH2 N CH2CH2 OH SEP one SEP one tb SEP DON tb SEP CH3 SEP CH2CH3 tb H3C CH NH CH2CH2CH2 N CH2CH2 OH SEP one SEP one tb SEP DEMN tb SEP CH3 SEP H3CCHCH3 tb H3C CH NH CH2CH2 N CH2CH2 OH SEP one SEP one tb SEP CH3 SEP H3CCHCH3 tb H3C CH NH CH2CH2CH2 N CH2CH2 OH SEP one SEP one tb SEP CH3 SEP CH3CHCH2CH3 tb CH3CH2 CH CH NH CH2CH2 N CH2CH2 OH SEP one SEP two tb SEP CH3 SEP CH3CHCH2CH3 tb CH3 CH2CH NH CH2CH2CH2 N CH2CH2 OH SEP two SEP two tb The results indicate that the aminoalcohol of this invention must preferably contain no more than eleven carbon atoms in total so as to be suitably soluble for purposes of removing acidic gases under absorption conditions. Therefore, the diaminoalcohol disclosed inU.S. Pat. 3,288,748 is not suitable as a gas treating agent as are the compounds of this invention. In summary, the present invention is seen to provide a class of diaminoalcohols having both a ter ti ary and secondary amino group and a certain maximum number of carbon atoms which is useful in removing C02 from normally gaseous mixtures and which shows superior resistance to degradation under C02 rich conditions.These diaminoalcohols can be prepared by an efficient two step process wherein a nitrile is prepared and is then simultaneously hydrogenated and alkylated.