# Nonenzymatic glucose test.

## Abstract
The invention provides a nonenzymatic method useful for the semiquantitative determination of glucose, a test composition and test device. Glucose concentration in an aqueous test sample can be determined by preparing a test solution by contacting an aqueous test sample and a dihy droxide component, at an initial pH above 6.5, capable of forming a complex with glucose which complex formation releases a proton, and determining the final pH of the test solution. The invention also provides a self indicating de vice format which allows the determination of glucose con centration by merely counting the number of pads which have changed color. No comparison to a color chart is required. The glucose test of the present invention is free of the interferences found in enzymatic glucose tests.

## Claims
EPO CLAIMS 1. A method useful for semiquantitatively determining glucose in an aqueous test sample comprising the steps of a preparing a test solution by contacting the aqueous test sample and a dihydroxide component, at an initial pH above 6.5, capable of forming a complex with glucose which complex formation releases a proton and optionally a buffer capable of moderating pH change in a range of from about pH 6.5 to pH 12 and b determining the final pH of the test solution. 2. The method of claim 1 in which the dihydroxide component is chosen from dihydroxides of boron and strontium. 3. A test composition for the semiquantitative determination of glucose in an aqueous test sample, comprising a a dihydroxide component, at an initial pH above 6.5, capable of forming a complex with glucose which complex formation releases a proton and optionally a buffer capable of moderating pH change in a range of from about pH 6.5 to about pH 12 and b a pH indicator capable of providing a detectable colorimetric response in a pH range from about pH 6.5 to about pH 12. 4. The test composition of claim 3 in which the dihydroxide component is chosen from dihydroxides of boron and strontium. 5. A test device for the semiquantitative determination of glucose in an aqueous test sample, comprising a carrier matrix and a test composition incorporated therewith, the test composition including a a dihydroxide component capable of providing a pH above 6.5 at the surface of the incorporated carrier when the carrier is wetted, the dihydroxide component being also capable of forming a complex with glucose which complex formation releases a proton, and b a pH indicator capable of providing a detectable colorimetric response in a pH range of from about pH 6.5 to about pH 12. 6. A test composition for the semiquantitative determination of at least 1,000 milligrams per deciliter glucose in an aqueous test sample comprising a a borate buffer capable of moderating pH change in a pH range of from about pH 6.5 to about pH 12 and b a pH indicator capable of providing a detectable colorimetric response in a pH range from about pH 6.5 to about pH 12. 7. A test device for the semiquantitative determination of at least 1,000 milligram per deciliter glucose in an aqueous test sample, comprising a carrier matrix and a test composition incorporated therewith, the test composition including a a borate buffer capable of moderating pH change in a pH range of from about pH 6.5 to about pH 12 and b a pH indicator capable of providing a detectable colorimetric response in a pH range of from about pH 6.5 to about pH 12. 8. A self indicating test device useful for the visual semiquantitative determination of glucose concentration in an aqueous test sample without a color chart comprising a a plurality of test matrices affixed to a support member, b each test matrix comprising a carrier matrix and a test composition incorporated therewith c each test composition including a dihydroxide component, at an initial pH above 6.5, capable of forming a complex with glucose which complex formation releases a proton, and a pH indicator capable of providing a detectable colorimetric response in a pH range from about pH 6.5 to about pH 12 d wherein each test matrix is incorporated with a test composition which differs from the other incorporated test composition by the initial pH used and by the concentration of dihydroxide incorporated so that each test matrix is capable of responding to a different concentration of glucose to provide about the same visual colorimetric response. 9. The self indicating test device of claim 8 in which the dihydroxide component is chosen from dihydroxides of boron and strontium. 10. The process of using the self indicating test device of claim 8, for the semiquantitative determination of at least 1000 mg per dl glucose in an aqueous test sample without comparison to a color chart, comprising the steps of a contacting the device with an aqueous test sample suspected of containing glucose, and b determining the number of carrier matrices which have changed color.

## Description
NONENZYMATIC GLUCOSE TESTFIELD OF THE INVENTION The invention relates to nonenzymatic methods for the semiquantitative determination of glucose in general and to nonenzymatic diagnostic compositions for the colorimetric determination of glucose in aqueous test samples in particular.UTILITY Determination of glucose concentration in aqueous solution is useful industrially in the sugar industry and medically. Medically, the semiquantitative determination of glucose in body fluids, such as urine or blood, is of importance as a public health measure to screen large numbers of people for diabetes, and is of particular importance for diabetic patients who must control their sugar intake. Because early diagnosis and continued control are so important in diabetes, a glucose test, to be of greatest value to the physician, clinician or home diabetic user must be rapid and simple enough to perform conveniently and yet sensitive enough to reflect meaningful variations in urine or blood glucose. Semiquantitative determination of high range glucose, defined herein as glucose concentrations of 1,000 milligrams per deciliter mg dL and above, is important because urine glucose concentraction in diabetic patients can range up to 5,000 mg dL or higher. The quantitative estimation of high urine glucose concentrations is important for at least two reasons. First, in emergency situations it is important to determine whether a state of unconsciousness can be attributed to diabetic coma, which would be indicated by a high urine glucose concentration. Second, urine glucose levels become elevated if an insufficient amount of insulin has been administered. A test which can estimate high urine glucose concentrations therefore has utility in the therapeutic monitoring of insulin requirements.INFORMATION DISCLOSURE Most diagnostic testing for glucose presently performed clinically is based on the enzymatic action of glucose oxidase on B D glucose EMI3.1 tb B D glucose SEP glucose SEP oxidase tb D glucose SEP glucose SEP oxidase1 SEP H SEP 202 SEP SEP gluconic SEP acid tb 02 SEP H0 tb SEP 2 tb and the resultant oxidation of a chromogen Cr to its oxidized state Cr which is visually detectable by a color change EMI3.2 tb H SEP O SEP SEP Cr SEP Peroxidase SEP H SEP O SEP SEP Cr tb Great convenience is obtained when the test device can be used semiquantitatively to determine glucose levels by visual comparison of the color, developed after contact with a test sample, with an appropriate color chart.Such semiquantitative determinations can also be performed instrumentally by measuring the reflectance of a reacted device.However, as the concentration of glucose increases above 1,000 mg dL the color of most chromogens used in enzymatic systems is so dark as to preclude distinguishing high concentration levels. U.S.Patent No. 4,340,669 describes the observed results with o tolidine, tetramethylbenzidine and tetraethylbenzidine as chromogen at 0, 50, 100, 250, 500 and 1,000 mg dL glucose in the fluid being tested.Each of these chromogens turns from yellow to bright green when the concentration of glucose increases from 0 to 50 mg dL. As the concentration of glucose increases above 500 mg dL the color of the oxidized chromogen darkens so that the observed colors of the respective chromogens were oliveblack, black and deep green. This observation highlights a problem with the semiquantitative enzymatic determination of glucose in aqueous fluids, that is at high concentrations known chromogens appear black or very dark green thereby limiting the utility of the test devices for determination of glucose above 500 mg dL. While the problem is not so acute if the color change is determined instrumentally, it nonetheless still exists.Some success in increasing the visually readable range of glucose with enzymatic compositions has been achieved by the addition of secon dary chromogens such as m anisidine U.S. Pat. No.4,340,669 . In addition to poor color differentiation at high glucose concentrations, enzyme based glucose tests are interfered with by ascorbic acid vitaminC present in body fluids, are expensive and are subject to stability problems. Nonenzymatic methods for measuring glucose have also been used. These include instrumental methods based on a measuring electrode see, for example, U.S. Pat. No. 4,127,448 and even a noninvasive automatic glucose sensor system which scans the patient s eye for radiation transmitted through the cornea see U.S. Pat. No. 3,958,560 . U.S. Pat. No. 4,278,438 discloses a method and apparatus for the analysis of saccharides. An alkylene polyamine prepared in a borate buffet is used to elute saccharides from a chromatography column. U.S. Pat. No. 4,371,374 discloses a method of monitoring blood glucose by separating and quantitating nonenzymatic glycosylated amino acids, peptides or mixtures thereof by treating a urine sample with a suitable boronic acid to complex the glycosylated compounds, separating them and analyzing the separated complexed material. The present invention does not require elaborate equipment, but nevertheless allows the determination of glucose up to any desired concentration level, by use of the complexation of glucose with a dihydroxide component. Complexation of sugars with boron and alkali earth dihydroxides has been reported S.A. Barker et at., CarbohydrateResearch 26 1973 33 40 N. Roy et awl., Carbohydrate Research, 24 1972 180 183 but this phenomenon has not been used to solve the problem of semiquantitatively determining glucose concentration in an aqueous test samples. A preferred embodiment of the present invention provides a self indicating device for the determination of glucose based on the use of the complexation of glucose with a dihydroxide component. The self indicating device of this invention permits a visual determination of the concentration of glucose without comparison to a color indicator chart. A disposable indicator device for the determination of cholesterol was disclosed in U.S.Patent No. 4,042,329. The disclosed device provides an indication of the concentration of cholesterol in a given biological fluid which is directly readable in notation format.DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING The drawing indicates the reproducibility of visual determinations of glucose concentration with a nonenzymatic test device of the present invention. Test devices formulated for the semiquantitative determination of high range glucose were contacted with contrived urine test samples containing from 1 gm dL to 8 gm dL glucose. The graph verifies the linear relationship of glucose con centration, G, in gm dL with device reading, R, in gm dL. The test devices were prepared by pretreating a paper carrier matrix with a borate buffer prepared from phenylboronic acid prior to incorporation of a test composition comprising a borate buffer prepared from boric acid and a pH indicator. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The invention provides a method for semiquantitatively determining glucose in an aqueous test sample, a test composition useful for such a determination, a test device and a method for its preparation and use. The method for determining glucose in an aqueous test sample, comprises the steps of a preparing a test solution by contacting the aqueous test sample and a dihydroxide component, at an initial pH above 6.5, capable of forming a complex with glucose which complex formation releases a proton and b determining the final pH of the test solution. The test composition comprises a a dihydroxide component, at an initial pH above 6.5, capable of forming a complex with glucose which complex formation releases a proton and b a pH indicator capable of providing a detectable colorimetric response in a pH range of from about pH 6.5 to about pH 12.A carrier matrix can be incorporated with the test composition to provide a particularly convenient test device format. A preferred embodiment is a self indicating test device.DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION A number of carbohydrates containing a cisdiol grouping form a variety of complexes with compounds containing a dihydroxide group. See, for example, N. Roy et aZ., Carbohydrate Research 24 1972 180 183, and S. A. Barker et aZ., Carbohydrate Research, 26 1973 33 40 . It has been found that this complex formation can be used to provide a semiquantitative determination of the concentration of glucose in an aqueous test sample by preparing a test solution by contacting the sample with a dihydroxide, at an initial pH above 6.5, capable of forming a complex with glucose, which complex formation releases a proton into solution, and determining the final pH of the test solution. Suitable dihydroxides include those of barium, boron, calcium, magnesium and strontium. Ba OH 2, Z B OH 2, Ca OH 2, Mg OH 2 and Sr OH 2 . Dihydroxides of boron and strontium are preferred.Particularly preferred are boron dihydroxides of the general formula Z B OH 2 wherein Z is an electron withdrawing such as a nitro group or electron stabilizing group such as a hydroxyl or arene group. Where Z is a hydroxyl group the boron dihydroxide is boric acid.Suitable boron dihydroxides include boric acid, phenylboronic acid, p nitrophenylboronic acid, 4 methoxyphenylboronic acid and . naphthylboronic acid, naphthylboronic acid as well as other areneboronic acids and their derivatives. An arene group is defined as any hydrocarbon group containing at least one aromatic ring. These groups are useful in the present invention provided the anionic negative form of the dihydroxide can be stabilized by electron resonance over the aromatic ring. For example, the compound phenylboronic acid where Z is a phenyl group is particularly useful in the invention. In addition arene derivatives, such as p nitrophenylboronic acid, which contain electron withdrawing groups as substituents on the aromatic ring are also useful. Glucose can be determined by preparing a test solution with an aqueous test sample and a dihydroxide component at an initial pH above 6.5, capable of forming a complex with glucose, which complex formation releases a proton, and measuring the final pH of the test solution. The test solution can usually be formed by simply contacting the dihydroxide with the aqueous test sample. The barium, boron, calcium, magnesium and strontium dihydroxides generally form 1 1 complexes with glucose. Therefore the ratio of dihydroxide to glucose in the test sample must be approximately one to one. To form a test solution of a boron dihydroxide, such as boric acid, in sufficient concentration to determine glucose concentrations of about 500 mg dL or greater, it may be necessary to use a base such as potassium hydroxide or sodium hydroxide to dissolve the boron dihydroxide. An equivalent procedure would be the use of the salt form of boric acid as part of the hydroxide component. Obviously, other bases are also useful provided they do not interfere with the complex formation between the dihydroxide and glucose. The final pH of the test solution can be measured conventionally with a pH meter or visually or instrumentally after the addition of a pH indicator. The pH change which occurs with complex formation between the dihydroxide component and glucose, can be moderated by the addition of a buffer. A test composition which includes a buffer capable of moderating a pH change over the pH range of from about pH 6.5 to about pH 12 can be used to determine glucose over a wider concentration range than a test composition without such a buffer.Suitable buffers include trisWhydroxymethyl amino methane, commonly known as TRIS, N,N bis 2 hydroxyethyl glycine, commonly known as BICINE and N 2 hydroxyethylpiperazine N t 2 ethanesulfonic acid, commonly known as HEPES. It is particularly convenient when using a boron dihydroxide such as boric acid or phenylboronic acid to use the buffer form as the dihydroxide component. A borate buffer is defined as the mixture of the acid and base form of a Z B OH 2 compound. The equilibrium between the two forms can be shown schematically as EMI10.1 where Z can be any of the groups described previously. The borate buffer can be prepared from boric acid Z OH or from areneboronic acid derivatives such as phenylboronic acid or mixtures of Z B OH 2 compounds by commonly used laboratory methods well known to those skilled in the art. For example, a solution of boric acid buffer can be prepared by titrating boric acid with a base such as sodium or potassium hydroxide to an initial pH within the buffering range of the Z B OH 2 compound used.This buffering range is expected to fall between pH 6.5 to pH 12 for most Z B OH 2 compounds. The buffer can also be prepared by adding equimolar parts of the acid and base forms of the dihydroxide and dissolving in water. The choice of the initial buffer pH can affect the concentration range of glucose which can be determined with a particular test composition. For example, the effectiveness of the complexation of boron dihydroxide with glucose decreases as the pH of the solution falls below the pKa of the borate buffer. The addition of electron withdrawing substituents on a buffer prepared from an areneboronic acid derivative changes the pKa of the buffer and therefore its effective pH and complexing range. For example, boric acid, pKa 9.2, has a lower complexing capacity below about pH 7.0, while phenylboronic acid, pKa 8.8, will complex with glucose at a pH as low as 6.5. p Nitrophenylboronic acid, pKa 7.4, has an even lower effective pH. A mixture of borate buffers, such as boric acid buffer and phenylboronic acid buffer, can extend the effective pH range of the borateglucose complexing and therefore the glucose concentration range which can be determined. When a boric acid buffer is used, an initial pH above 8.0 is preferred. For high range glucose determinations with a boric acid buffer, an initial pH above 9.0 is particularly preferred. The buffer is most useful in a glucose determination when the initial pH is slightly above its pKa. The buffer can, or course, be supplied in a dry state by removal of water after the initial pH is set. The buffer is capable of providing that pH when reconstituted. It is particularly convenient to provide a test composition for the determination of glucose including a dihydroxide as defined herein and a pH indicator capable of providing a detectable colorimetric response in the pH range of from about pH 6.5 to about pH 12. Any pH indicator which changes color within this pH range, or any combination of indicators, can be used. Useful indicators include m cresol purple, cresol red, neutral red, thymol blue, phenophthalein, o cresol phthalene, phenol red, bromothymol blue or Universal Indicator, a mixture of indicators available from Kodak. The test composition can be used to determine glucose concentration simply by contacting the composition and the aqueous test sample and observing the detectable colorimetric response produced. A pH indicator changes color over a range of pH values. The pKa of an indicator represents approximately the midpoint of its color changes.The initial pH of the borate buffer chosen is related to which indicator is used. For example, m cresol purple changes from purple at pH 9.0 to yellow at pH 7.4. At pH values above 9.0, the indicator remains purple or changes color very little with pH change. If an initial pH of 9.0 is used, a detectable response will be apparent with any pH change. If an initial pH of 9.2 or higher is used, the composition will not change color i.e., will not have a detectable response to glucose concentration, until the pH drops below pH 9.0. Therefore, the compositions utilizing m cresol purple containing a buffer capable of providing an initial pH of 9.0 will be more sensitive to a lower glucose concentration than such compositions containing a buffer capable of providing an initial pH of 9.2. If a different pH indicator is used, another initial pH can be preferred.For example cresol red has a pH range between about 8.8 red and about 7.2 yellow a lower initial pH, such as pH 9.0, is then preferred for optimal performance in this test composition.The use of more than one indicator can provide a color change over a broader pH range and therefore over a broader glucose concentration range. A test composition which is particularly suited for the determination of high range glucose defined herein as at least 1,000 milligrams glucose per deciliter is a borate buffer capable of moderating pH change in a pH range of from about pH 6.5 to about pH 12 and a pH indicator capable of providing a detectable colorimetric response in a pH range of from about pH 6.5 to about pH 12. In a preferred composition prepared for high range urine glucose determinations, the borate buffer is a boric acid buffer prepared so that it is capable of providing aninitial pH of about 9.2.This high initial pH avoids nonspecific pH change and interference by urine pH and buffering capacity. The buffer so prepared can be provided in a dry state by lyophilization or simply dried to remove the water used to prepare the buffer. Additional components such as wetting agents, stabilizers or thickeners can be added to the test composition provided they do not interfere with the complexation of the dihydroxide with glucose. Any of these compositions can be provided in the form of a bottled reagent, a frangible capsule containing the test composition in reagent form, a pill or a tablet. The test device, a preferred form of the invention, is prepared by treating a suitable carrier matrix with the test composition in the form of a liquid reagent and drying. The carrier matrix can be any substance capable of being incorporated with the components of the test composition, as long as it is substantially inert with respect to the test composition, porous and or absorbent relative to the aqueous sample to be tested. The expression carrier matrix refers to either bibulous or nonbibulous matrices which are insoluble in and maintain their structural integrity when exposed to water or to other physiological fluids. Suitable bibulous matrices which can be used include paper, cellulose, wood, synthetic resin fleeces, woven and nonwoven fabrics and the like. Nonbibulous matrices include glass fiber, polymer films and microporous membranes. It is, therefore, to be appreciated that in producing a test device of the invention all such carrier matrix concepts can be employed, as can others. The matrix can also comprise a system wherein the composition ingredients are homogeneously combined in a fluid or semifluid state, which later hardens or sets, thereby incorporating the ingredients. Other matrix formats are contemplated, including the use of microporous membranes or polymer film matrices. Microporous membranes are available as preformed membranes or can be prepared by such techniques as phase inversion.Suitable polymer films can be produced with commercially available latex formulations based on latex polymer suspensions such as that formed from a 60 40 copolymer of styrene and butadiene. Other natural or synthetic polymers or mixtures thereof can also be used. Examples of such film formulations can be found in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3,630,957 and 4,312,834, incorporated herein by reference. The presently preferred method of preparation is impregnating a bibulous carrier matrix, for example filter paper, with an aqueous solution of the composition and drying, followed by affixing the dried impregnated matrix to a support member.The impregnating solution is prepared so that it exhibits the desired initial pH. When a whole blood sample is to be tested, the dried impregnated carrier matrix can be coated to allow excess sample to be washed or wiped off. Drying can be accomplished by any means which will not deleteriously affect the incorporated composition, usually by means of an air oven. Incorporation can be accomplished by any method such as coating, dipping, spreading, spraying or printing which allows the carrier matrix to be incorporated with the assay composition. The dried carrier matrix can thereafter be cut and mounted on one end of a support member, for example, a rigid or semirigid polystyrene film strip. The dihydroxide component and or buffer are in such a form as to be capable of providing an initial pH above 6.5 at the surface of the incorporated carrier when the carrier is wetted.The pH of the wetted incorporated carrier can be measured with surface electrodes. The term incorporated carrier refers to a carrier matrix incorporated with the test composition and dried. When a transparent film strip is used, instrumental reading of a reacted device can be accomplished from either side of the strip. Mounting of the paper on the strip can be accomplished through use of a double faced adhesive tape, such as that commercially available from the 3M Co., St. Paul, eMN., under the trademark DOUBLE STICK When a paper carrier matrix is used with a boric acid buffer, it can be advantageous to treat the paper with an aqueous solution of a second borate buffer such as that prepared from phenylboronic acid at an initial pH above 6.5, prior to incorporation of the test composition containing the borate buffer. It is speculated that such a pretreatment prevents possible interaction of the paper with the borate buffer in the test composition. Concentration ranges for components in the reagent solution used to prepare a solid state test device are as follows working preferred borate buffer 0.1 0.9M 0.1 0.4M pH indicator 0.025 0.2 0.04 0.15 These concentration ranges and relative concentrations of components are viable whether the solution is an aqueous impregnating solution or a polymer suspension. A preferred reagent solution contains from 0.10 to 0.30 M borate buffer titrated to an initial pH of about 8.5 to about 9.5 and 0.05 to 0.10 of an indicator such as m cresol purple. In a preferred embodiment a paper matrix is impregnated with an aqueous solution containing from 0.1 to 0.3M of borate buffer titrated to an initial pH above 6.5 prior to incorporation with the test composition. A preferred borate buffer for pretreatment is prepared from phenylboronic acid. The test device is advantageously used by momentarily dipping it in a test sample or by otherwise introducing a test sample onto the carrier matrix, whereby a detectable colorimetric change results when glucose is present. Contact with the test sample can also be made by pipette, swab or spatula. Although dipping is a highly satisfactory method of contact when urine is used, a serum sample will normally require pipetting. Semiquantitative glucose concentrations can be determined visually by comparison with an appropriate color chart or measurements can be made instrumentally by reflectance from either side of the device if a transparent support member is used. A preferred embodiment for a glucose test device of the present invention is a self indicating device which permits the determination of the concentration of glucose in an aqueous test sample without comparison to an additionally provided color chart. In fact, because of the basic chemistry of the reagents involved in this invention, a self indicating device can be provided in which the only user determination necessary is the determination of the number of test means on a multipad test device which have changed color. A self indicating device can be constructed so that each test means, when contacted with a glucose test sample at a concentraticn equal to or greater than the specified concentration for which that test means is designed to react, will change color to approximately the same color. The self indicating device is prepared by affixing a plurality of test matrices to a support member. Each test matrix is prepared by incorporating a test composition, designed to react with a different but predetermined concentration of glucose, with a carrier. The test composition can be formulated as described previously, however, usually the same chemical components will be incorporated with each matrix and the composition in each test matrix will differ only in the concentration of dihydroxide and the initial pH.In a preferred formulation for high range glucose, the self indicating device is prepared by incorporating a plurality of test matrices with a pH indicator capable of providing a detectable colorimetric response and a borate buffer wherein the concentration of borate buffer and the initial pH of the borate buffer is different in each test matrix. The self indicating format is particularly preferred for the determination of glucose with a borate buffer. By counting the number of pads that change color, the user is able to tell the amount of glucose present without resorting to a color chart comparison. The pads can be arranged separately on a support such as Trycite or joined together. For a sample glucose concentration less than the concentration with which the test means is designed to react, there will be no color change.The user, given the information that a color change of one to two test means corresponds to a normal reading, while the change of three or more test means indicates a possible pathological condition, can take appropriate action or seek professional assistance without the need to compare the color of the pad with a color chart. Given the differences in color discrimination between different individuals and the differences in color discrimination in different lighting conditions, the use of the present invention in this format is particularly advantageous. In the dihydroxide complexing system, the complexation of glucose with the dihydroxide releases a proton. Therefore, the pH of the system decreases. In a single test means pad system, the indicator changes color over the pH range produced by the complexation of glucose over the concentration range of glucose which the system is designed to determine. Usually an indicator with a pKa approximately mid range in the pH range expected in the test is chosen. The decrease in pH with increased glucose can be moderated somewhat by setting the initial pH of the test means at a point which best moderates the pH change produced. Most pH indicators change color over a fairly wide pH range, however over smaller pH ranges within that range the color visible to the eye is apparently the same. The concentration of dihydroxide and the initial pH can be chosen for each test means so that reaction with any concentration of glucose equal to or greater than that with which the test means is designed to react, the pH change produced by the complexation reaction takes the indicator to a point within that smaller pH range wherein the color is apparently the same to the naked eye.In a preferred embodiment using a borate buffer and cresol red, it has been found that while the hue of the reacted test means can be different i.e., one reacted test means can provide a light gold while another reacted test means can provide a deep gold , the final color of test means designed to react with a concentration equal to or less than the test sample glucose concentration is the same. On the other hand, the color of test means designed to react with glucose concentrations greater than that of the test sample definitely remains the color of an unreacted test means in the case of cresol red, the unreacted test means color is red . Indicators for use with a high range glucose self indicating device should change color within the pH range of from about 6.5 to 12. For the self indicating format, it is preferred to use an indicator, such as cresol red or m cresol purple, which has a defined color at more basic pH values higher pH values and changes fairly abruptly to a well defined and dramatically different color at lower pH values. A similar color change over a requisite pH range can be obtained with mixed indicator systems. The following examples describe experiments which were performed in developing the present invention. A preferred self indicating format is described in Example 4. While the examples serve to illustrate the invention, they are not to be interpreted as limiting its scope, which is defined solely by the claims. One skilled in the art will be able to make such variations, substitutions and changes in the components of the composition and ingredients and reaction parameters as seem desirable. ABBREVIATIONS The following abbreviations are used in the examples. mg milligram mL milliliter dL deciliter M molar percent given in weight per 100 mL solution PVP K90 poly vinylpyrrolidone average molecular weight 360,000 from GAF Corp., New York, N.Y. m cresol purple meta cresolsulfonephthalein cresol red o cresolsulfonephthalein neutral red 2 methyl 3 amino 6 di methyl aminophenazine thymol blue thymolsulfonepthalein phenylphthalein 3,3 bis p hydroxyphenyl phthalide phenol red phenolsulfonephthalein bromothymol blue dibromothymolsulfonephthalein Klucel LF hydroxypropyl cellulose potyethylene polyethylene glycol, glycol 4000 molecular weight 4000 EXAMPLES 1. Phenylboronic acid buffer pretreatment Whatman 54 filter paper was immersed in an aqueous solution containing 0.2 M phenylboronic acid buffer, initial pH 9.05. The impregnated paper was then dried for 15 minutes at 600C in an air oven. The dried paper was immersed in an aqueous solution containing 0.25 M borate buffer, initial pH 9.05, and 0.08 m cresol purple sodium salt .A stock solution of 1 m cresol purple in ethanol was used to prepare the impregnating solution. The borate buffer was prepared by dissolving boric acid in water, adjusting the pH to 9.05 with potassium hydroxide and diluting to the desired volume. The doubly impregnated paper was again dried for 15 minutes at 600C in an air oven. A piece of the doubly dried paper was affixed to a polystyrene support member for convenient handling. The test devices were tested by dipping in aqueous test samples containing from 1000 mg dL to 8,000 mg dL i.e., 1 gm dL to 8 gm dL glucose.Data displayed in the drawing indicates good linear correlation between glucose concentration gm dL and the strip reading. 2. No pretreatment Whatman 54 filter paper was immersed in a solution containing boric acid buffer 2.0 mL lM, initial pH 9.5 PVP K90 15 1.0 mL Phenol Red lM 0.2 mL Water 10.0 mLThe impregnated paper was dried for 15 minutes at 600C in an air oven and a piece of the dried paper was affixed to support members made of polystyrene.The finished test device provides good visual resolution between 1,000, 2,000, 3,000 and 5,000 mg dL glucose. The color changes from red for negative less than 1,000 mg dL glucose to yellow 5,000 mg dL glucose . 3. Double Indicator system A particularly preferred test device for the determination of high range glucose i.e. concentrations of at least 1,000 milligrams per deciliter in a urine test sample is prepared as follows Solution 1 10 acetone in water phenylboronic acid 0.23M buffer initial pH 9.0 dodecylbenzenesulfonic acid sodium salt 0.04 Solution 2 boric acid buffer 0.30M initial pH 9.0 PVP K 60 1.2 polyethylene 0.8 glycol 4000 Klucel LF 0.4 in ethanol Tween 21 0.04 Cresol Red 0.03 Bromothymol Blue 0.003 in ethanol Solution 2 is made up in 10 acetone. The final solution contains 10 acetone and 10 ethanol. Filter paper, such as Whatman 54 or E D 204, is pretreated by dipping into solution 1 and drying. The dried pretreated paper is dipped into solution 2 and dried. The dual indicator system facilitates the semiquantitative differentiation of glucose concentrations between 1,000 mg dL and 10,000 mg dL as the difference in colorimetric response between different concentration levels is greater. This is particularly desirable for a visually read test device. 4. Self Indicating Glucose Device A. The indicator m cresol purple was used to prepare a test device for the determination of 1, 2, 4 and 8 grams per deciliter glucose in urine. Four pieces of Whatman 54 paper 10 x2 or 25.4 by 5.08 cm were impregnated with 0.2 M phenyl borate at pH 9.0 and dried for 15 minutes at 500C.Each piece was then treated with one of the following solutions Borate Concentration M 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 10 mL 1 m Cresol Purple mL 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 in Ethanol pH 9.0 9.2 9.4 9.6The papers were again dried 15 minutes at 500C , applied to double sided adhesive and slit into 1 5 .508 cm ribbons. The ribbons were applied onTrycite in order of increasing borate concentration and pH toward handle and slit into 1 5 .508 cm strips. Dipped in a urine sample containing 6 grams per deciliter glucose, three test means changed color from purple to gold. Although the depth of the final gold color was different i.e., slightly lighter gold to a deep gold for each reacted test means, all the reacted pads designed to determine 6 gm dL glucose or less were readily identified as a gold. The fourth test means, designed to react with 8 gm dL glucose, remained purple. B. A similar self indicating device was prepared using cresol red as an indicator. Four pieces of Whatman 54 paper 10 x 2 or 25.4 by 5.08 cm were treated with 0.1 M phenyl borate solution at an pH 8.0 and then dried for 15 minutes at 50 CC. Each was then separately impregnated with one of the four different solutions Borate Concentration M 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 10 mL 0.5 Cresol Red in Water 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 mL pH 9.0 9.2 9.6 9.8 The test means were designed to react with 1, 2, 4 and 8 g dL glucose for urine test samples respectively. Test devices were assembled as previously described. The self indicating device exhibited no color change remained red when dipped in a urine sample containing 0.5 gm dL glucose. However, when dipped into a urine sample containing 3 gm dL glucose, two pads changed color to yellow . Obviously, many modifications and variations of the invention as set forth can be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention.