# Solid phase receptor assay for antibiotics of the vancomycin class.

## Abstract
The present invention relates to a method for determin ing an antibiotic substance capable of binding to a D Alanyl D Alanine dipeptide such as the glycopeptidic antibiotics of the vancomycin class and their derivatives and aglycones. Further objects of the present invention are compositions of matter kits and means for exploiting the method of the invention.

## Claims
CLAIMS FOR THE CONTRACTING STATES BE, CH, DE, FR, GB, IT, LU, NL, SE 1. A method for determining an analyte selected from an antibiotic of the vancomycin class, an individual factor, derivative or aglycon thereof other glycopeptidic antibiotics, as well as non glycopeptidic antibiotics, all of which possess the common feature of binding to the molecular receptor represented by aD Alanyl D Alanine dipeptide or a D Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal oligopeptide, which includes passively adsorbing onto the surface of analytical supporting and or containing means a determined D Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal oligopeptide conjugated with a macromolecular carrier capable of adsorbing onto said surface, adding either simultaneously or sequentially the test sample, and a known amount of labelled analyte, and evaluating the amount of labelled analyte bound to the solid phase system by reference to a standard curve obtained by assaying known amounts of analyte. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein theD Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal oligopeptide conjugate is in a limited amount compared with the total amount of analyte and labelled analyte and the test sample and the known amount of labelled analyte are added simultaneously to the adsorbed solid phase. 3. A method according to claim 1 wherein the binding sites of the D Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal oligopeptide conjugate exceeds the amount of test analyte, the test analyte and the labelled analyte are added sequentially and the amount of labelled analyte is such that it binds all the available binding sites of said adsorbed conjugate. 4. A method according to claim 1 wherein the analyte is an antibiotic substance of the vancomycin class selected from vancomycin, teicoplanin, actaplanin, avoparcin, actinoidin, LL AM 374, A 477, OA 7653, A 35512 B, A 515668, AAD 216 A 41030, A 47934 as well as an individual factor, derivative, aglycon, thereof. 5. A method according to claim 1 wherein the analyte is teicoplanin. 6. A method according to claim 1 wherein theD Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal peptic is e aminocaproyl D Alanyl D Alanine. 7. A method according to claim 1 wherein the macromolecular carrier is a protein. 8. A method according to claim 1 wherein themacromolecular carrier is albumin. 9. A method according to claim i wherein the analytical supporting and or containing means are the wells of microtiter plates or test tubes, or plastic sheets. 10. A method according to claim 1 wherein the analytical supporting and or containing means are the wells of polyethylene or polystyrene microtiter plates. 11. A method according to claim 1 wherein the labelling element of the labelled analyte is an enzyme. 12. A method according te claim i wherein the labelling element of the labelled analyte is horseradish peroxidase. 13. A method according to claim 1 which comprises a preparing a dilution buffer pH 7.0 7.5 with phosphate buffered saline, PBS bovine serum albumine BSA and a surfactant agent such as a polyethylene oxide sorbitan mono laurate Tween commat 20 , b preparing scalar standard dilutions of the antibiotic to be tested a zero standard included in phosphate buffered saline PBS and diluted serum, pH 7.0 7.5 c diluting the test serum samples to the selected dilution by means of the above dilution buffer d adding a solution of the horseradish peroxidase analyte conjugate to each sample, mixing, e transferring each of these mixtures into the plastic wells cf 2 microtiter plate coated with a limited amount of BSA C Aca D Ala D Ala f after having incubated for about 2 h at room temperature in a humid box, through washing the wells with PBS plus 0.05 0.1 v v Tween020 pH 7.0 7.5 g Qing a color developing chromogenic substrate for the horseradish peroxidase h spectrophotometrically detecting the optical density of each sample, and i calculating the concentration of analyte in the test samples by interpolating the competition ratio of each sample on a calibration curve obtained with standard dilutions of the analyte. 14. Analytical supporting and or containing means coated with a D Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal oligopeptide conjugated with a suitable macromolecular carrier capable of adsorbing onto said surface for use in the method of claim 1. 15. Analytical means according to claim 14 wherein theD Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal oligopeptide is E aminocaproyl D Alanyl D Alanine. 16. Analytical means according to claim 14 wherein the macromolecular carrier is a protein. 17. Analytical means according to claim 14 wherein the macromolecular carrier is albumin. 18. Analytical means according to claim i4 wherein saic means are wells of microtiter plates or test tubes, or plastic sheets 19. Analytical means according to claim 14 wherein said means are plastic microtiter plates, which are coated onto the internal surface of the wells with said conjugate. 20. A composition of matter kit for performing the method of claim 1 which includes a analytical supporting and or containing means coated with a D Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal oligopeptide conjugated with a suitable macromolecular carrier capable of adsorbing onto said surface b labelled analyte, and or c standard preparation of the analyte. 21. A kit according to claim 20 wherein theD Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal oligopepetide if the coated analytical supporting and or containing means is e zminocaproyl D Alanyl D Alanine. 22. A kit according to claim 20 wherein the macromolecular carrier in the coated analytical supporting and or containing means is z protein. 23. A kit according to claim 20 wherein the macromolecular carrier in the coated analytical supporting andior containing means is albumin. 24. A kit according to claim 20 wherein said analytical supporting an or containing means are wells of microtiter plates or test tubes. 25. A kit according to claim 20 wherein said analytical supporting and or containing means are plastic wells of microtiter plates or test tubes. CLAIMS FOR THE CONTRACTING STATE AT 1. A method for determining an analyte selected from an antibiotic of the vancomycin class, an individual factor, derivative or aglycon thereof other glycopeptidic antibiotics, as well as non glycopeptidic antibiotics, all of which possess the common feature of binding to the molecular receptor represented by a D Xfanyl D Alanine dipeptide or a D Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal oligopeptide, which includes passively adsorbing onto the surface of analytical supporting and or containing means a determined D Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal oligopeptide conjugated with a macromolecular carrier capable of adsorbing onto said surface, adding either simultaneously or sequentially the test sample, and a known amount of labelled analyte, and evaluating the amount of labelled analyte bound to the solid phase system by reference to a standard curve obtained by assaying known amounts of analyte. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein theD Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal oligopeptide conjugate is in a limited amount compared with the total amount of analyte and labelled analyte and the test sample and the known amount of labelled analyte are added simultaneously to the adsorbed solid phase. 3. A method according to claim 1 wherein the binding sites of the D Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal oligopeptide conjugate exceeds the amount of test analyte, the test analyte and the labelled analyte are added sequentially and the amount of labelled analyte is such that it binds all the available binding sites of said adsorbed conjugate. 4. A method according to claim 1 wherein the analyte is an antibiotic substance of the vancomycin class selected from vancomycin, teicoplanin, actaplanin, avoparcin, actinoidin, LL AM 374, A 477, OA 7653, A 355l2 B, A 515668, AAD 216 A 41030, A 47934 as well as an individual factor, derivative, aglycon, thereof. 5. A method according to claim 1 wherein the analyte is teicoplanin. 6. A method according to claim 1 wherein theD Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal peptide is aminocaproyl D Alanyl D Alanine. 7. A method according to claim 1 wherein the macromolecular carrier is a protein. 8. A method according to claim 1 wherein the macromolecular carrier is albumin. 9. A method according to claim 1 wherein the analytical supporting and or containing means are the wells of microtiter plates or test tubes, or plastic sheets. 10. A method according to claim 1 wherein the analytical supporting and or containing means are the wells of polyethylene or polystyrene microtiter plates. 11. A method according to claim 1 wherein the labelling element of the labelled analyte is an enzyme. 12. A method according to claim 1 wherein the labelling element of the labelled analyte is horseradish peroxidase. 13. A method according to claim 1 which comprises a preparing a dilution buffer pH 7.0 7.5 with phosphate buffered saline, PBS bovine serum albumine BSA and a surfactant agent such as a polyethylene oxide sorbitan mono laurate Tween tp 20 , b preparing scalar standard dilutions of the antibiotic to be tested a zero standard included in phosphate buffered saline PBS and diluted serum, pH 7.0 7.5 c diluting the test serum samples to the selected dilution by means of the above dilution buffer d adding a solution of the horseradish peroxidase analyte conjugate to each sample, mixing, e transferring each of these mixtures into the plastic wells of a microtiter plate coated with a limited amount of BSA Aca D Ala D Ala f after having incubated for about 2 h at room temperature in a humid box, throughly washing the wells with PBS plus 0.05 0.1 v v Tween pH 7.0 7.5 g adding a color developing chromogenic substrate for the horseradish peroxidase h spectrophotometrically detecting the optical density of each sample, and i calculating the concentration of analyte in the test samples by interpolating the competition ratio of each sample on a calibration curve obtained with standard dilutions of the analyte. 14. Analytical supporting and or containing means coated with a D Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal oligopeptide conjugated with a suitable macromolecular carrier capable of adsorbing onto said surface for use in the method of claim 1. 15. Analytical means according to claim 14 wherein theD Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal oligopeptide is aminocaproyl D Alanyl D Alanine. 16. Analytical means according to claim 14 wherein the macromolecular carrier is a protein. 17. Analytical means according to claim 14 wherein the macromolecular carrier is albumin. 18. Analytical means according to claim 14 wherein said means are wells of microtiter plates or test tubes, or plastic sheets. 19. Analytical means according to claim 14 wherein said means are plastic microtiter plates, which are coated onto the internal surface of the wells with said conjugate. 20. A process for the manufacture of a composition of matter kit for performing the method of claim 1 which includes a analytical supporting and or containing means coated with a D Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal oligopeptide conjugated with a suitable macromolecular carrier capable of adsorbing onto said surface b labelled analyte, and or c standard preparation of the analyte. 21. A process according to claim 20 wherein theD Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal oligopepetide if the coated analytical supporting and or containing means is aminocaproyl D Alanyl D Alanine. 22. A process according to claim 20 wherein the macromolecular carrier in the coated analytical supporting and or containing means is a protein. 23. A process according to claim 20 wherein the macromolecular carrier in the coated analytical supporting and or containing means is albumin. 24. A process according to claim 20 wherein said analytical supporting and or containing means are wells of microtiter plates or test tubes. 25. A process according to claim 20 wherein said analytical supporting and or containing means are plastic wells of microtiter plates or test tubes.

## Description
SOLID PHASE PRECEPTOR ASSAY FOR ANTIBICTICS OF THEVANCOMYCIN CLASS.The present invention relates to ci net hod for determining an antibiotic substance capable of binding to a D Alanyl D Alanine dipeptide such as a glycopeptidic antibiotics of the Vancomycin class and a derivative or aglycone thereof. Further objects of the present invention are compositions of matter kits and means tor exploiting the method of the invention.Teicoplanin is the international non proprietary name INN of the antibiotic substance formerly denominated teichomycin which was described in US patent 4239751.Other antibiotics of the vancomycin class include, in addition to vancomycin, ristocetin, actaplanin, teicoplanin, avoparcin, actinoidin, LL AM 374, A 477, OA 7653, A 35512 B, A 515668, AAD 216, A 41030, A 47934 as well as the individual factors, derivatives and aglycones thereof.It is known that Vancomycin and Pistocetin A interfere with the synthesis of peptidoglycan, which is the main structural component of thc bacterial cell wall. It is thought that. 1 his Snterference, which leads to the inhibition of cell growth and, eventually, to the distruction of the cell by lysis, is due to a specific binding between the antibiotics and the pentapeptide precursor having a D Ala D Ala residue at the carboxyl terminus UDP N Acetylmuramylpentapeptide A.R.Perkins, Biochem. J. 111, 195, 19C9 . It was recently disccrverecl that also teicoplanin acts through the same mechanism by binding to the growing peptidoglycan of sensitive bacteria. More particularly, it was found that teicoplanin, like vancomycin and ristocetin A and similar antibiotics, binds to peptidoglycans containing a D Ala D Ala dipeptide at the carboxy terminus. By so doing, they probably inhibit the bacterial transpeptidase and prevent the cross linking of cell wall peptidoglycan. These antibiotics also binds a D Alanyl D Alanine dipeptide or a D Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal oligopeptide.Also the other antibiotics of the vancomycin class have proven or are supposed to act through the same mechanism of action, and are therefore capable of binding to aD Alanyl D Alanine dipeptide or a D Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal oligopeptide.In addition to the antibiotic of the vancomycin class, the present method can suitably be used for determining other non glycopeptidic or non vancomycin like antibiotics which are capable of binding to aD Alanyl D Alanine dipepetide or a D Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal oligopeptide.D Alanyl D Alanine or a D Alanyl D Alanine oligopeptide can be considered therefore as a molecular receptor for the above described antibiotic substances.Methods known so far for determining antibiotic substances and in particular teicoplanin and the other antibiotics of the vancomycin class are mainly based onTLC, HPLC, and bioassays on susceptible microorganisms see for instance the cited US patent .In view of the current therapeutic use or advanced clinical study of some of these antibiotics, there is a need for assay methods for their determination in fluids, especially biological fluids, which be rapid, easy, reliable, and suitable for automation. It has been found that it is possible to determine teicoplanin, and the other antibiotic substances such as the other antibiotics of the vancomycin class which have the same mechanism of action and binds to the same molecular receptors by means of a reliable, accurate, rapid and sensitive method which is based on competitive or saturation binding assays and employs a suitable conjugate form of a D Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal oligopeptide adsorbed on a convenient solid phase.The D Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal oligopeptide may be a tri , tetra , penta , hexa , or heptapeptide wherein the carboxy terminal dipeptide is represented byD Alanyl D Alanine. The preferred D Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal oligopeptide of the invention is the tripeptide s aminocaproyl D Alanyl D Alanine here into for rAca D Ala D Ala . The D Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal oligopeptide is conjugated with a suitable carrier in order to make it adsorbable on a solid phase surface. The suitable carrier may be in this case any protein or other high molecular weight substance capable of being covalently linked to the D Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal oligopeptide to give a conjugate which is capable of adsorbing i.e. capable of contracting physical bonds with the selected solid phase surface.A preferred example of such a carrier is albumine, and bovine albumine in particular. However egg, human, or pork albumine is usable as well.The solid phase surface onto which the D Alanyl Dalanine carboxy terminal oligopeptide bearing carrier is adsorbed is preferably the surface of analytical supporting and or containing means. For the scope of the present application supporting and or containing means refers to any analytical means which can contain or, at least, be exposed to liquid reagents. Preferred examples of these are glass or plastic microtiter plates or test tubes or plastic sheets. The preferred supporting and or containing means are the wells of polyethylene or polystyrene microtiter plates.As already said, the analyte , i.e. the substance that can be assayed by the method of the invention, is an antibiotic substance capable of binding to a D Alanyl D anine dipeptide or a D Alanyl D Alanine car box terminal oligopeptide, such as teicoplanin or another antibiotic substance of the vancomycin class as defined above , an individual factor, derivative, aglycon or pseudo aglycon thereof or another non vancomycin like or non glycopeptidic antibiotic substance which binds to the said molecular receptor .The method of the invention may be based on competitive or saturation binding assays.As it is known, a competitive method is such that an analyte is quantitatively determined against a known amount of labelled analyte in competition for a limited number of binding sites for the analyte. A saturation method substantially differs from a competition one in that a two step procedure is followed which comprises equilibrating the analyte with an excess of binding sites and then adding the labelled analyte in order to saturate all the binding sites which are still available.As is apparent to the man skilled in the art, the binding sites in the method of the invention are represented by the so called molecular receptor i.e.by the D Alanyl Dalanine carboxy terminal oligopeptide conjugate adsorbed onto the surface of the analytical supporting and or containing means . Labelled analyte refer to an analyte which has been labelled by any of the known labelling means such as radioisotope tracers or preferably enzymes. The radioisotope tracers are those usually employed in radio immunoassay such as 125I, while the enz atic marker is one of those usually employed in enzyme linked immunoassay. The preferred enzymatic marker is horseradish peroxidase. Then the labelled analyte is an enzyme labelled analyte the detection is preferably colorimetric in the presence of a suitable chromogenic substrate. In the case of radioisotopic labelling, the usual scintillographic detection techniques are used.One object of the present invention is therefore a method for determining an analyte selected from an antibiotic of the vancomycin class, an individual factor, derivative or aglycon thereof other glycopeptidic antibiotics, as well as non glycopeptidic antibiotics, all of which possess the common feature of binding to the molecular receptor represented by aD Alanyl D Alanine dipeptide or a D Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal oligopeptide.This method includes passively adsorbing onto the plastic surface of the analytical supporting and or containing means , a determined amount of a D Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal oligopeptide which has been conjugated with a macromolecular carrier capable of adsorbing onto said surface, adding either simultaneously or sequentially the test sample and a known amount of labelled analyte, and evaluating the amount of labelled analyte bound to the solid phase system by reference to a standard curve obtained by assaying known amounts of analyte.It can be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the coupling of the D Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal oligopeptide with the suitable carrier may be obtained by means of known per se techniques. Conveniently, a coupling agent is employed a preferred coupling agent being glutaraldehyde. Other known coupling agents include carbodiimides, diisocyanates, anhydrides, diazonium compounds, azides, and cyanogen bromide.Similarly, known coupling procedures and reagents, such as those reported above, may be used also for linking the labelling er.zle to the analyte for preparing the labelled analyte . Alse in this case, glutaraldehyde is the preferred coupling agent.In these coupling reactions, the proportion between the reactants may vary significantly, even if in many instances a ratio of about 1 1 between the labelling enzyme and the analyte, and between the D Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal oligopeptide and carrier, respectively, is preferred. Moreover, in the case of the coupling reaction between a D Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal oligopeptide which is s Aca D Ala D Ala and a macromolecular carrier which is bovine serum albumine BSA the molar proportion between these two reagents may vary from 1 1 to 10 1.According to the method of the invention, a competitive assay includes a passively adsorbing onto the surface of analytical supporting and or containing means a D Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal oligo peptide conjugated with a suitable macro molecular carrier capable of adsorbing onto said surfaces b adding thereto, and incubating, the test sample together with a known amount of labelled analyte , c evaluating the amount of analyte in the test sample by evaluating the amount of labelled analyte bound to the solid phase system by reference to a standard curve obtained with known amounts of analyte.A preferred embodiment of the present invention is represented by the use cf s Aca D Ala D Ala as theD Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal oligopeptide in the method of the invention.Another preferred embodiment of the present invention is represented by the use of serum albumin, and preferably bovine serum albumine BSA , as the macromolecular carrier capable of adsorbing onto plastic surfaces.Still another preferred embodiment of the present invention is represented by the use of enzyme labelled analyte as the labelled analyte the preferred labelling enzyme being horseradish peroxidase.A further preferred embodiment of the method of the invention is represented by its use for determining an analyte which is selected from teicoplanin and a teicoplanin derivative, aglycon or pseudoaglycon.A further specific embodiment of the invention is a competitive method for an analyte selected from teicoplanin, and another antibiotic substance of the vancomycin class, or an individual factor, derivative or aglycon thereof, in human serum samples, which comprises a preparing a dilution buffer pH 7.0 7.5 with phosphate buffered saline PBS ,bovine serum albumine BSA and a sulfactant agent such as a polyethyieroxide sorbitan mono laurate Tween 20 b preparing scalar standard dilutions of the antibiotic to be tested a zero standard included in phosphate buffered saline PBS and diluted serum, pH 7.0 7.5 c diluting the test serum samples to the selected dilution by means of the above dilution buffer d adding a solution of the horseradish peroxidase analyte conjugate to each sample, mixing, e transferring each of these mixtures into the plastic wells of a microtiter plate coated with a limited amount of BSA C Aca D Ala D Ala f after having incubated for about 2 h at room temperature in a humid box, thoroughly washing the wells with PBS plus 0.05 0.1 v v Tween20 pH 7.0 7.5, g adding a color developing chromogenic substrate for the horseradish peroxidase h spectrophotometrically detecting the optical density of each sample, and i calculating the concentration of analyte in the test samples by interpolating the competition ratio of each sample on the calibration curve obtained with. the standards. The competition ratio is defined as the ratio between the specific optical density of the sample and the specific optical density of the zero standard.The above procedure is referred to as the so called competition binding assay, which is characterized by the fact that the total number cf binding sites available is inferior to the sum of the analytes and labelled analytes for each sample.However, this methodology can be modified and used in a sequential saturation assay which implies a two step binding reaction.In the first step the analyte contained in the standard or test sample is allowed to equilibrate with an excess of BSA e Aca D Ala D Ala and, in the second step, after washing, the enzyme labelled analyte is added to saturate the remaining binding sites. The bound enzymatic activity is revealed using the proper chromogenic substrate.Analytical supporting and or containing means coated with a D Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal oligopeptide conjugated with a suitable macromolecular carrier capable of adsorbing onto said surface are new and represents a further object of the present invention.Also the plastic microtiter wells or tubes coated with aD Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal oligopeptide conjugated with a suitable macromolecular carrier capable of adsorbing onto plastic surfaces are new and represent an object of the present invention.Analogously, plastic microtiter wells or tubes coated with a BSA C Aca D Ala D Ala conjugate are new and represent a further object and a preferred embodiment of the present invention. More particularly, the preferred coated microplates or tubes of the invention are plastic well or tubes coated with from 0.025 pg to 1 pg preferably from 0.1 to 0.2 of BSA Aca D Ala D Ala. The supporting and or containing means of the invention are suitable for use in manual as well as automated assay proceaures. This flexibility is of particular importance to meet the needs of the final user.In fact, an automated procedure may be extremely useful in clinical monitoring of many treated patients both for keeping the therapeutic dose of the administered drug and for controlling or studying the drug distribution into the biological fluids, while a manual procedure may be sufficient for lab scale analysis.In its composition of matter aspect, the present invention encompasses also a kit of reagents for exploiting the method of the invention for the easy, rapid, reliable, and accurate determination of an analyte selected from an antibiotic of the vancomycin class, an individual factor, derivative or aglycon thereof, other glycopeptidic antibiotics, as well as non glycopeptidic antibiotics all of which possess the common feature of binding to the molecular receptor represented by a D Alanyl D Alanine dipeptide or aD Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal oligopeptide, which includes a analytical supporting and or containing means coated with a D Alanyl D Alanine carboxy terminal oligopeptide conjugated with a suitable macromolecular carrier capable of adsorbing onto plastic surfaces, b the labelled analyte and or c a standard preparation of the analyte.When the labelling substance is an enzyme, such as horseradish peroxidase, the kit may also contain a chromogenic substrate.To the man skilled in the art, it is evident that not only other components may optionally be present in the kit such as buffer solutions, revealing means, etc., but also some of the components the kit may be presented in a separate form but for the same use. Also these separate forms of components for use in the present method are encompassed by the composition of matter and method of the present invention.The following examples further illustrate the invention and are not to be construed as limiting its scope.Example 1 Preparation of BSA ACA D ALA D ALA a Conjugation of ariIiocaproy l D alanyl D alanine e Aca D Ala D Ala to bovine serum albumine BSA Aca D Ala D Ala is conjugated to BSA by a two step method using glutaraldehyde the bifunctional crosslinked reagent BSA 250 mg is dissolved in 0.1 MNa carbonate bicarbonate buffer at pH 9.5 ml 4.5 .Glutaraldehyde 0.5 ml of a 25 aqueous solution is added and allowed to react for 1 hour at room temperature. The reaction mass is then dialyzed against 0.9 NaCl overnight. E Aca D Ala D Ala 125 mg is dissolved in 0.5 ml of 0.5 M Na carbonate buffer at pH 9.5, added to the dialyzed reaction mass and stirred for 6 h at room temperature . 1 M lysine 0.5 ml is then added and the mixture is kept at room temperature for 2 h to block the unreacted active groups. The conjugate is then dialyzed against 0.05 K phosphate containing 0.15M NaCl PBS pH 1.3. b Gel Filtration of the ConjugateTo purify the conjugate from excess unreacted material or low molecular weight by products the above obtained dialyzed mixture is passed through a refrigeratedSephacryl S 200 column controlled pore covalently cross linked alkyl dextrane and ,N methylene bis acrylamide Pharmacia Fine Chemicals 0.8 cm x 100 cm equilibrated and eluted with PBS pH 10.4 flow rate 10 ml h . The elution is monitored spectrophotometrically by registering the transmittance at 280 nm. Fractions corresponding to the peak eluted with the void volume of the column are pooled total volume 15 ml , neutralized with l M HCl and diluted four times with PBS pH 7.3. aliquotes of 0.5 ml of this mixture are distributed into vials, lyophilized and kept at 800C.The amount of conjugate prepared is sufficient for the coating of more than 10,000 microplates of 96 wells per microplate.Example 2 Coating of microplates with 3SA E ACA D ALA D ALA. A stock solution for weekly preparation of microplates is prepared by dissolving the content of a vial of liophylized BSA C Aca D Ala D Ala tprepared as described in the foregoing example in PBS pH 7.3 0.5 ml this solution can be stored for weeks without loss of activity and is therefore suitable for use as stock solution for weakly preparations.The wells of microplates are filled with 100 Fl well of a 1 2000 dilution of this stock solution, except one vertical row of wells conveniently the last one which is kept as the blank. These blank wells are filled with l09l of PBS pH 7.3. The microplates are incubated for 3 hours at room temperature in a covered box and then washed 5 times by empting and filling with distilled water. 200 pl well of 3 BSA in PBS pH 7.3 were added and allowed to adsorb for 2 hours at room temperature for blocking uncoated plastic surface. The plates are washed again with distilled water, shaken dry and stored at 40C until use. Example 3 rationofHRP Teicolanin a Labelling of teicoplanin with horseradish peroxidase HRP Teicoplanin is labelled with horseradish peroxidase by a two step method using glutaraldehyde as the bifunctional cross linking reagent.Teicoplanin 20 mg in 0.1 M Na carbonate pE 11.5 2 ml is added to 25 glutaraldeF.yde aqueous solution 0.2 ml . The mixture is neutralized with lM HCl and extensively dialyzed against 0.9 NaCl at least 3 changes . Horseradish peroxidase 10 mg in 0.5 MNa carbonate bicarbonate buffer pH 9.5 0.5 ml is added and stirred for 3 hours at 370C.Then 1 M lysine 0.5 r. ì is added thereto to block the unreacted active groups 15 hours at 40C b Gel filtration of HRP Teicoplanin 1.5 ml of the HRP teicoplanin conjugate obtained as above is adjusted to pH II and gel filtered on a refrigerated Sephacryl S 200 column 0.8 cm x 100 cm pre equilibrated in PBS pH 11 and eluted with the same buffer at a flow rate of 20 mlXh. The elution is monitored spectrophotometrically by registering the trah,smittance at 280 nm. Fractions of about 2.5 ml are collected at 40C. Peak fractions fractions which exhibit the maximum colorimetric development when assayed with the proper chromogenic reagent are pooled and immediately neutralized with 1 M HCl c Affinity chromatography of HRP Teicoplanin.The above obtained fractions are further purified by affinity chromatography on a D alanyl D alanine aminocaproyl Sepharose column 0.8 cm x 10 cm pre equilibrated with PBS pH 7.3. After loading at a flow rate of 40 ml hour, the column is washed with the equilibration buffer and eluted with PBS pH 11. The elution is monitored spectrophotometrically by registering the transmittance at 280 nm, fractions of 2 ml are collected. Peak fractions are pooled, neutralized with 1 M hydrochloric acid and tested for the enzymatic activity of the Teicoplanin ERP conjugate. The most active fractions are aliquoted and stored at 800C. d Evaluation of HRP Teicoplanin activitySerial dilutions of the above obtained HRP teicoplanin preparations are made in PBTBA buffer PBS pH 7.3 containing 3 BSA, 0.5 Tween20, 10 mY benzamidine and 2 mg ml 8 anilino l naphthalenesulfonic acid 100 liwell of each sample dilution is added to the horizontal rows of a BSA Aca D Ala D Ala coated microplates and incubated for 2 hours in a covered box at room temperature. The microplates are washed eight times by empting and filling with PBS pH 7.3 containing 0.05 , TWeen 20 and shaken dry. 200 l of a chromogenic solution 1 mg ml o phenylendiamine, 5 mMH202 in 0.1 M Na citrate buffer at pH 5 is added to each well.After 30 min at room temperature, the enzymatic reaction is stopped by adding 50 pl well of 4.5 M H2SO4. 15 min later, the optical density of each well at 492 nm is measured. The activity of the samples is expressed as the dilution factor giving 0.100 0.200 optical density units.Example 4 Assay of teicoplanin containing serum samples. a Preparation of dilution bufferTo 100 ml of phosphate buffered saline PBS pH 7.3 200 mg of 8 anilir.o l naphthalenesulfonic acid ANSA , 0.5 ml of Tween e 20 and 3 g of bovine serum albumin are added. This mixture is gently stirred until dissolution then the pH is adjusted to 7.3 b Preparation of diluted test serum 1 ml of human serum is diluted with 9 ml of the above dilution buffer c Preparation of standard solution Samples of about 5 mg of teicoplanin accurately weighed are put into glass test tubes, 0.5 ml of dirnethylformamide is added thereto and the mixture is dissolved by shaking or sonicating. Then, PBS at pH 7.3 is added to reach the concerltraticn cf 2, mg ml.The solution is then diluted with PBS pH 7.3 to obtain the following dilutions of teicoplanin 8, 4, 2, 1, 0.5, 0.25, 0.125, 0.062, 0.031 pg ml. Diluted human serum is thevzero standard d Preparation of the solution of HRP Teicoplanin HPR teicoplanin, obtained as described in example 3 is diluted 1 to 70 with the dilution buffer e Preparation of the chromogenic solution 20 mg of o phenylendiamine in 20 ml of 0.1 M Na citrate buffer pH 5 is added to 10 pl of H202 36 w v f Preparation of the test samplesSerum or plasma samples are diluted 1 10 with the dilution buffer. g Assay procedure.Each standard solution 0.5 ml , zero solution included, as well as each test sample 0.5 ml are transferred to plastic test tubes. A solution of HRP teicoplanin as prepared above 0.5 ml is added thereto and mixed.100 pl of each of these solutions are then put in triplicate into the wells of a BSA C Aca D Ala D Ala coated microtiter plate prepared as described in example 2. Zero standard solutions are added to the blank wells of the microtiter plate.The plates are then incubated for 2 h at room temperature in a humid box, and washed thoroughly, 8 times, by empting and filling with PBS containing 0.05 Tween 20. Then the microplates are shaken dried.200 pl well of the above mentioned chromogenic solution is then added. After 3G min the color developing enzymatic reaction is stopped by adding 50 Ml well of 4.5to HzSO4. 15 min later the optical density of each well is measured at 492 nm h Evaluation of the resultsThe mean values of the optical densities of the blank, the standard solutions and the test samples are separately evaluated. After substracting the optical density value of the blank from the standard as well as the test samples, the competition ratio for each sample is determined by dividing each of the so obtained optical density values by the optical density of the zero standard. The teicoplanin content of the test samples is obtained by interpolating the corresponding competition ratio values on the calibration curve. The calibration curve is conveniently drawn on a logit log paper plotting the competition ratio of each standard sample against the corresponding teicoplanin concentration. Application range on the basis of repeated experiments from 0.05 to 40 pg ml. Preferred application range from 0.1 to 30 pg ml of teicoplanin. Precision within the assay CV equal to 7.2 between the assays CV equal to 11.2Accuracy recovery ranged from 87 to 125