# FLUORESCENCE POLARIZATION ASSAY, REAGENTS, AND METHOD OF MAKING REAGENTS, FOR DETERMINATION OF DIGITOXIN

## Abstract
The present invention is directed to an im proved fluorescent polarization assay for digitoxin, and to improved reagents for use in the assay. The reagent is formed as the reaction product of 3 amino 3 deoxydigitoxigenin and 5 or 6 carboxyfluorescein, under conditions for forming amide linkages, to yield a tracer. The tracer forms a complex with antiserum specific to digitoxin, in proportion to the relative concentration of the tracer with respect to the con centration of the digitoxin present in the sample. It has been found that excellent results are obtained when such a reagent is used for measuring concentrations of digitoxin.

## Claims
1. A reagent for quantitively determining the presence of digitoxin in blood serum in a homogeneous mixture of said reagent, where said reagent comprises the reaction product of 3 amino 3 deoxydigitoxigenin and one of the group consisting of 5 carboxyfluorescein and 6 carboxyfluorescein.

## Description
This invention related to a method and re agents for determining the amount of digitoxin in fluids, especially biological fluids such as serum or plasma, and to a method for making the reagents. Specifically, the invention relates to a fluorescence immunoassay procedure and to tracers employed as re agents in such a procedure. Digitoxin is a cardiac glycoside used to treat congestive heart failure. Although digitoxin is highly effective in increasing the force of myocardial contractions, dosage levels are critical since the therapeutic concentrations are very close to toxic levels. Since individuals may vary in their response, it is essential to carefully monitor the therapy by measuring the serum or plasma levels of the drug. Typically, competitive binding immunoassays are used for measuring ligands in a test sample. For the purposes of this disclosure, a ligand is a sub stance of biological interest to be quantitatively determined by a competitive binding immunoassay tech nique. The ligands compete with a labeled reagent, or ligand analog or tracer, for a limited number of receptor binding sites on antibodies specific to the ligand and ligand analog. The concentration of ligand in the sample determines the amount of ligand analog which binds to the antibody the amount of ligand analog that will bind is inversely proportional to the concentration of ligand in the sample, because the ligand and the ligand analog each bind to the antibody in proportion to their respective concentrations. In the past, patient serum plasma digitoxin levels were measured by heterogeneous radioimmunoassays utilizing radioactive iodine 125 I on the ligand ana log. However, such assays were not without drawbacks. Typically, the radioactive assay kits had a short shelf life and posed handling and disposal problems due to the radioactivity. Additionally, the heterogeneous procedure required that the unbound radioactive tracer ligand analog be separated from the bound tracer be fore the reading could be taken. Yet another drawback was the relatively long incubation time 30 60 minutes required by the radioimmunoassay procedures. Fluorescence polarization provides a quanti tative means for measuring the amount of tracer anti body conjugate produced in a competitive binding im munoassay. Fluorescence polarization techniques are based on the principle that a fluorescent labeled com pound, when excited by plane polarized light, will emit fluorescence having a degree of polarization inversely related to its rate of rotation. Accordingly, when a tracer antibody conjugate having a fluorescent label is excited with plane polarized light, the emitted light remains highly polarized because the fluorophore is constrained from rotating between the time that light is absorbed and emitted. In contrast, when an unbound tracer is excited by plane polarized light, its rota tion is much faster than the corresponding tracer anti body conjugate and the molecules are more randomly oriented. As a result, the light emitted from the un bound tracer molecules is depolarized. Such fluores cence polarization techniques have been applied in U.S. Patent No. 4,420,568 to Wang et al., which is directed to the use of a triazinylaminofluorescein moiety as the fluorophore. The present invention offers an advance in the art beyond the Wang patent, in that highly sensitive tracers, a method for making the tracers, and an assay using the tracers are provided specifically for the determination of digitoxin. The assay conducted in accordance with the present inven tion is particularly accurate, as will be explained below. This invention is directed to tracers for use in fluorescent polarization assays for digitoxin, to methods for conducting such assays, and to methods of making the tracers. A first aspect of the invention relates to the discovery of unique tracers having a novel struc ture. According to the first aspect of the present invention, there is provided N 3 3 deoxydigitox igenin x carboxyfluorescein x amide, wherein x is 5 or 6, i.e., a compound of the formula According to a second aspect of the invention, there is provided a synthesis method, i.e., a method for making the compound of Formula A by reacting 3 amino 3 deoxydigitoxigenin with 5 or 6 carboxyfluo rescein. In a presently preferred embodiment, the re action product is obtained under conditions for forming amide linkages, such as by preparing a solution of 5 or 6 carboxyfluorescein, contacting this solution with 1,3 dicyclohexylcarbodiimide N,N dicyclohexyl carbodiimide and N hydroxysuccinimide, and then re acting the 5 or 6 carboxyfluorescein mixture with a solution of 3 amino 3 deoxydigitoxigenin. In a most preferred embodiment, 5 carboxyfluorescein is the starting material of choice. A third aspect of the invention relates to an analytical method, i.e., a method using as a reagent the compound of Formula A, of conducting an assay. According to the third aspect of the invention, an im proved fluorescence polarization assay is provided, comprising the steps of contacting a sample with a digitoxin antiserum and a fluorescent labeled digitox igenin derivative capable of producing a detectable fluorescence polarization response to the presence of digitoxin antiserum in a homogeneous solution, passing plane polarized light through the homogeneous solution, and measuring the fluorescence polarization response therefrom. Further objects and attendant advantages will be best understood from a reading of the following de tailed description taken together with the drawings and the Examples. The present invention is directed to reagents for use as tracers in an improved fluorescence polari zation immunoassay to synthetic methods, for making the reagents and to an analytical method, using the reagents, for quantitatively detecting the presence of digitoxin in fluids, such as human body fluids includ ing blood serum, plasma, spinal fluid, and the like. Specifically, it has been found in accordance with the invention that the reaction product of 3 amino 3 deoxydigitoxigenin and 5 or 6 carboxyfluorescein produces a digitoxin analog tracer . This tracer is highly effective in fluorescence polarization assays for digitoxin. These assays can be carried out in a homogeneous solution, i.e., in a solution comprising both bound and unbound tracers, without the need for separating the two. With respect to the method for making the tracers, the reaction products are coupled under con ditions normally used to form amide linkages. It is preferred that active ester procedures be used, as these are most effective for forming the desired amide linkage in this particular situation. The reaction can be carried out under temperature conditions from about 0 C to about 100 C. most preferably between about 0 C and about 80 C. , and the reaction time can vary between about one half hour to about 144 hours. The presently preferred methods for making the tracers are set forth in detail in the Examples. The tracers of the present invention general ly exist in an equilibrium between their acid and ionized states, and in the ionized state are effective in the method of the present invention. Therefore, the present invention comprises the tracers in either the acid or ionized state, and for convenience, the tracers of the present invention are structurally represented herein in their acid form. When the tracers of the present invention are present in their ionized state, the tracers exist in the form of biologically accept able salts. As used herein, the term biologically acceptable salts refers to salts such as sodium, potassium, ammonium and the like which will enable the tracers of the present invention to exist in their ionized state when employed in the method of the present invention. Generally, the tracers of the present invention exist in solution as salts, with the specific salt resulting from the buffer employed. For example, in the presence of a sodium phosphate buffer, the tracers of the present invention will generally exist in their ionized state as a sodium salt. A tracer which is not complexed to an anti body is free to rotate in less than the time required for absorption and re emission of fluorescent light. As a result, the re emitted light is relatively random ly oriented so that the fluorescence polarization of a tracer not complexed to an antibody is low, approaching zero. Upon complexing with a specific antibody, the tracer antibody complex thus formed assumes the rotation of the antibody molecule which is slower than that of the relatively small tracer molecule, thereby in creasing the polarization observed. Therefore, when a ligand competes with the tracer for antibody sites, the observed polarization of fluorescence of the tracer antibody complex becomes a value somewhere between that of the tracer and tracer antibody complex. If a sample contains a high concentration of the ligand, the ob served polarization value is closer to that of the free ligand, i.e., low. If the test sample contains a low concentration of the ligand, the polarization value is closer to that of the bound ligand, i.e., high. By sequentially exciting the reaction mixture of an im munoassay with vertically and then horizontally polar ized light and analyzing only the vertical component of the emitted light, the polarization of fluorescence in the reaction mixture may be accurately determined. The precise relationship between polarization and concen tration of the ligand to be determined is established by measuring the polarization values of calibrators with known concentrations. The concentration of the ligand can be extrapolated from a standard curve pre pared in this manner. The particular tracers formed in accordance with this invention, N 3 3 deoxydigitoxigenin 5 carboxyfluorescein 5 amide and N 3 3 deoxydigitox igenin 6 carboxyfluorescein 6 amide, have been found to produce surprisingly good results in fluorescence polarization assays, with the former tracer being pre ferred over the latter. It is believed that the effectiveness of the tracers in the assay is due to a combination of two factors. First, because the relatively small hydrolysis product derivative of digitoxin i.e., 3 amino 3 deoxy digitoxigenin is used in combination with a fairly small fluorophore moiety i.e., 5 or 6 carboxyfluo rescein , the liquid and fluorophere moieties are held closely together so that undesirable rotation between absorption and emission of polarized light when complexed with the antiserum, is strictly limited. Second, and most surprisingly, the particular tracers of the present invention display outstanding binding and displacement properties when complexed to digitoxin antiserum. The excellent binding is surprising because one of ordinary skill in the art would not expect the tracers to be well recognized by the antiserum in view of the substantial differences between the structure of the tracers and that of the digitoxin molecule. The latter comprises three sugar groups, all of which are absent in the tracer. The tracer comprises aromatic instead of the saturated rings of the sugars, and lacks the hydroxyl groups of the sugars in the digitoxin molecule. The excellent binding is especially surpris ing since the tracer and the digitoxin molecules are both relatively small, such that one of ordinary skill in the art would expect the antiserum binding to be highly selective and sensitive to any change in the digitoxin structure. Despite the fact that the rela tively small digitoxin and tracer molecules have significantly different structures, the binding properties of the tracers of the present invention are outstanding, as will be more fully explained below. The results can be quantified in terms of net millipolarization units, span in millipolorization units and intensity. The measurement of millipolari zation units indicates the maximum polarization when a maximum amount of the tracer is bound to the antibody in the absence of any digitoxin. The higher the net millipolarization units, the better the binding of the tracer to the antibody. The span is an indication of the difference between the net millipolarization and the minimum amount of tracer bound to the antibody. A larger span provides for a better numerical analysis of data. The intensity is a measure of the strength of the signal above background. Thus, a higher intensity will give a more accurate measurement. The intensity is determined at about 2 nanomolar i.e., approximately 1.8 2.2 nanomolar concentration of tracer as the sum of the vertically polarized intensity plus twice the horizontally polarized intensity. Table I shows that the results of the tracers of the present invention, in terms of net millipolari zation units, span and intensity, are far superior to the results obtained when any of the other listed fluorophore moieties were used in conjunction with digitoxigenin. Additionally, attempts to use fluo rescein derivatives in conjunction with unhydrolysed digitoxin molecules were unsuccessful. As noted above, it is believed that the advantages of the tracers of the present invention derive from the proximity of the digitoxigenin moiety and the fluorescein moiety, since when larger molecules bind to the antibody receptor sites, their polarization retention is relatively poor. However, the surprising aspect of the application of this theory is that one would not expect that the tracers of the present invention would be well recog nized by the digitoxin specific antiserum, because of the substantial differences in structure between the relatively small digitoxin and tracer molecules. Thus, it should be understood that this theoretical hypothe sis to explain the surprisingly good results obtained in accordance with the present invention should not be construed as limiting, but is intended simply as a plausible explanation of the success thereof. In accordance with the method of conducting the assay of the present invention, a sample containing digitoxin, or suspected of containing digitoxin, is intermixed with a biologically acceptable salt of a tracer, such as the tracers illustrated in Fig. 4 or Fig. 6, and an antibody specific for digitoxin and tracer. The tracer is a carboxyfluorescein digitox igenin derivative. The digitoxin and the tracer com pete for limited antibody sites resulting in the forma tion of digitoxin antibody and tracer antibody com plexes. By maintaining constant the concentration of tracer and antibody, the ratio of digitoxin antibody complex to tracer antibody complex that is formed is directly proportional to the amount of digitoxin present in the sample. Therefore, upon exciting the mixture with plane polarized light and measuring the polarization of the fluorescence emitted by a tracer and a tracer antibody complex, one is able to quanti tatively determine the amount of digitoxin in the sam ple. The pH at which the method of the present invention is practiced must be sufficient to allow the digitoxigenin tracers to exist in their ionized state. The pH may range from about 3 to 12, more usually in the range of from about 5 to 10, most preferably from about 6 to 9. Various buffers may be used to achieve and maintain the pH during the assay procedure. Repre sentative buffers include borate, phosphate, carbonate, tris, barbital and the like. The particular buffer employed is not critical to the present invention, but the tris and phosphate buffers are preferred. The cation portion of the buffer will generally determine the cation portion of the tracer salt in solution. The reagents for the fluorescence polariza tion assay of the present invention comprise antibody specific for digitoxin, and either of the tracers N 3 3 deoxydigitoxigenin 5 carboxyfluorescein 5 amide and N 3 3 deoxydigitoxigenin 6 carboxyfluo rescein 6 amide, where the former is preferred. Addi tionally, a digitoxin pretreatment solution, a dilution buffer, digitoxin calibrators and digitoxin controls are desirably prepared. The preferred solutions of these reagents are commercially available from Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, Illinois. The tracer formulation presently pre ferred is 18.2 nanomolar tracer in 0.1 molar tris buffer at pH 7.5 0.1 weight volume sodium dodecyl sulfate 0.1 sodium azide and 0.01 bovine gamma globulin. The antiserum formulation comprises rabbit serum diluted with TDx dilution buffer, containing 2 ethylene glycol volume volume . The dilution buffer comprises 0.1 molar sodium phosphate at pH 7.5 0.1 weight volume sodium azide and 0.01 weight vol ume bovine gamma globulin. The pretreatment formula tion comprises 0.1 molar tris buffer at pH 7.5 0.1 weight volume sodium azide 0.5 weight volume copper sulfate and 10.0 weight volume 5 sulfosali cylate. Digitoxin calibrators comprising digitoxin and normal human serum are provided at concentrations of 0.0, 5.0, 10.0, 20.0, 40.0 and 80.0 nanograms per mil liliter, with 0.1 sodium azide preservative. Digi toxin controls comprising digitoxin and normal human serum are provided at concentrations of 7.5, 15.0 and 35.0 nanograms per milliliter, with 0.1 sodium azide preservative. The preferred method of the improved assay of the present invention will now be discussed in detail. Because of the very high binding of digitoxin to serum proteins 90 , an extraction step is employed which precipitates the proteins in a serum sample while re covering 97 of the digitoxin present. However, the assay is a homogeneous assay, which means that the end polarization readings are taken from a solution in which bound tracer is not separated from unbound tracer. This is a distinct advantage over radioimmuno assay procedures, for example, where the bound radio active tracer must be separated from the unbound radio active tracer before a reading can be taken. According to the preferred assay procedure of the present invention, digitoxin calibrators, controls and unknown samples must be prepared by the same pro cedure. In the preferred procedure, which is designed to be used in conjunction with the Abbott TDx Polari zation Analyzer, 100 microliters of the serum or plasma sample are pipetted into a labeled centrifuge tube. A pipette, such as a TDx Precision Dispenser is filled with methanol, and purged of air bubbles. Three hundred microliters of methanol are then dispensed into each centrifuge tube by touching the end of the dispensing syringe tip to the wall of the centrifuge tube while releasing the methanol. After all samples are pipetted, each centrifuge tube is capped and then mixed on a vortex mixer for three to five seconds. The tubes are then placed into a centrifuge head. The tubes should be evenly distributed so that the centrifuge head is balanced. The samples are then centrifuged for at least three minutes at 9,500 x g, or until clear super natant and a hard, compact pellet of denatured protein is obtained. After centrifugation is complete, each tube is uncapped and the supernatant is decanted into the corresponding sample well of a TDx Sample Cart ridge or equivalent. Since 300 microliters of sample supernatant are required to perform the assay in accord ance with the preferred TDx assay procedure, care must be taken when decanting to transfer the last drop of supernatant into the sample well. This can be accom plished by tapping the centrifuge tube on the edge of the sample cartridge. If the TDx Digitoxin Assay Kit is being used with the TDx analyzer, the caps from each of the three vials in the TDx Digitoxin Reagent pack are removed and placed into designated wells inside the TDx Polar ization Analyzer, and the assay procedure from this point is fully automated. If a manual assay is being performed, then the treated sample is mixed with dilution buffer. The antibody and the pretreatment solution are placed into the test tube containing the sample, and a background reading is taken. Then tracer and dilution buffer are added to the sample, and, after incubation, a fluores cence polarization reading is taken. The fluorescence polarization value of each calibrator, control or sample is determined and is printed on the output tape of an instrument such as the Abbott TDx Polarization Analyzer. A standard curve is generated in the instrument by plotting the polariza tion, P, of each calibrator versus its concentration using a nonlinear regression analysis. The concentra tion of each control and samples is read off the stored calibration curve and printed on the output tape. With respect to the foregoing preferred pro cedure, it should be noted that the digitoxin tracer, antibody, pretreatment solution, calibrators and con trols should be used directly after removal from stor age at between about 2 and about 8 C, while the dilu tion buffer should be stored at room temperature. A standard curve and controls should be run every two weeks, with each calibrator and control run in dupli cate. Controls should be run with each batch, and all samples can be run in duplicate. It should also be noted that centrifugation must be of sufficient dura tion usually at least about three minutes, and some times longer to produce a hard, compact pellet of precipitated protein. Floating pieces of unsedimented protein can cause plugging of the probe and poor re producibility of sampling. Finally, it should be noted that samples of fresh plasma, samples with abnormally high protein content, or extremely lipemic samples may also fail to yield the desired 300 microliters of supernatant. In such cases, the centrifugation time may be increased, for example, to five minutes, or the volume of the sample may be increased to 150 micro liters, or the volume of methanol may be increased to 450 microliters while the three minute centrifugation time is maintained. The sensitivity of the assay is 1.0 nanogram milliliter of digitoxin, and the cross reactivity of the assay to digoxin is less than 10 . When compared to a commercially available radioimmuno assay, using 178 clinical samples, a linear least squares regression analysis gave a slope of 1.060, an intercept of 0.729, and a correlation coefficient of 0.967. It should be understood that the foregoing detailed description and the following Examples are intended to be illustrative, but not limiting, with respect to the scope of the present invention. Various modifications will become apparent to one skilled in the art, and thus it is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the claims and equivalents thereto. To a warm solution of 0.2 gm of digitoxigenin in 4 ml of acetone was added 0.2 ml of Jones Reagent. The solution was stirred at room temperature for about one half hour. The solution was diluted with 15 ml of water, and cooled in a freezer. The crystalline ketone was isolated by removal of solvent by pipette. After washing with 15 ml of water, the solid was dissolved in 2 ml of methanol, and 0.34 gm of ammonium acetate and 0.04 gm of sodium cyanoborohydride were added. After stirring at room temperature for about 18 hours, the solution was diluted with 20 ml of water and extracted with three portions of 20 ml of chloroform. The chloro form was removed in vacuo to leave a white foam. The foam was redissolved in a minimum amount of chloroform and diluted with four times the volume of hexane. After one hour, the product, 3 amino 3 deoxydigitox igenin, was isolated by filtration as a white crystal line material. A solution of 0.0143 gm of 5 carboxyfluorescein, 0.013 gm of N hydroxysuccinimide, and 0.0215 gm of 1,3 dicyclohexylcarbodiimide in 0.5 ml of dry pyridine was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. 0.02 gm of 3 amino 3 deoxydigitoxigenin in 0.2 ml of dry pyridine was added. The solution was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. Chromatography of the crude reaction solution on 20 x 20 cm 0.5 mm silica gel plates with ethyl acetate hexane acetic acid in a ratio of 60 40 2 and collection of the appropriate band with methanol yielded slightly impure product. Rechromatography on two 20 x 20 cm 0.5 mm silica gel plates using diethyl ether methanol acetic acid in a ratio of 240 10 1 with multiple elutions produced the 5 carboxyfluorescein conjugate of 3 amino 3 deoxydigitoxigenin. A solution of 0.01 gm of 6 carboxyfluorescein, 0.009 gm of N hydroxysuccinimide, and 0.015 gm of dicyclo hexylcarbodimide in 1 2 ml of dry pyridine was stirred at room temperature for two hours. A solution of 0.014 gm of 3 amino 3 deoxydigitoxigenin in 0.2 ml of dry pyridine was added. After stirring at room temperature for 18 hours, the crude reaction was placed on a 20 x 20 cm 2.0 mm silica gel plate and eluted with hexane ethyl acetate acetic acid in a ratio of 20 30 1. Collection of the appropriate band with methanol yielded pure 6 carboxyfluorescein 3 amino 3 deoxydigitoxigenin conjugate.