# RARE EARTH ALLOY POWDERS AND PROCESS OF PRODUCING SAME

## Claims
Verfahren zur Herstellung von Seltenerd Eisen Bor Legierungspulvern mit den folgenden Schritten

## Description
The present invention relates to processes for producing rare earth alloy powders suitable to be used for the production of FeBR base and FeCoBR base high performance rare earth magnets. In the present disclosure, the symbol R represents lanthanides and Y, and the terms rare earth or rare earth element s represent the same. Particular attention has been paid to the FeBR base magnets as novel high performance permanent magnets using rare earth elements R represented by Nd, Pr and the like. As already disclosed in Japanese Patent Kokai Publication No. 59 46008 filed by the present applicant company, the FeBR base magnets have properties comparable to those of the prior art high performance magnets SmCo, and are advantageous in that scarce and expensive Sm is not necessarily used as the essential ingredient. In particular, since Nd has been considered to be a substantially useless component, it is very advantageous that Nd can be used as the main component. However, since the FeBR magnet alloys have a relatively low Curie temperature that is around 300 C, there is a fear that their stability at temperatures higher than room temperature may be insufficient. It has been proposed to improve the stability of the FeBR magnet alloys with respect to temperature by substituting Co for a part of Fe to form FeCoBR magnet alloys see Japanese Patent Kokai Publication No. 59 64733 . Furthermore, in order to improve the R Fe B and R Fe Co B base magnets, the present applicant has already developed R₁ R₂ Fe B and R₁ R₂ Fe Co B base rare earth magnets, wherein R₁ is at least one heavy rare earth element selected from the group consisting of Gd, Tb, Dy, Ho, Er, Tm and Yb, and at least 80 at of R₂ consists of Nd and or Pr, while the balance being at least one element from the group consisting of rare earth elements including Y and except for R₁ by substituting at least one heavy rare earth element selected from the group consisting of Gd, Tb, Dy, Ho, Er, Tm and Yb of 5 at or lower relative to the entire alloy for light rare earth elements such as Nd and or Pr, said magnets having a high maximum energy product BH max. of 1.6 10⁵ T A m 20 MGOe or higher and a coercive force iHc considerably increased to 8 10⁵ A m 10 kOe or higher, and being capable of being used in a temperature environment of 100 to 150 C see EP 0134305 and 0134304 . The starting materials used for the production of these R₁ R₂ Fe B and R₁ R₂ Fe Co B base rare earth magnets are expensive bulk or lump metals containing small amounts of impurities such as, for instance, rare earth metals of at least 99.5 purity which are prepared by the electrolysis or thermal reduction technique, electrolytic iron or boron of at least 99.9 purity. These raw materials are all high quality materials which are previously obtained from ores by purification and contain reduced amounts of impurities, and so the magnet products made thereof become expensive. In particular, the price of rare earth metal materials is very high, since the production thereof needs highly developed separation and purification techniques, and is only carried out with unsatisfactory efficiency. Thus, the R₁ R₂ Fe B and R₁ R₂ Fe Co B base permanent magnets will be brought to market at considerably high prices, although they possess high performance, as indicated by their iHc, and are very useful as practical permanent magnet materials. EP 101 552 is disclosing magnetic materials comprising Fe, B and R, which may be obtained by direct reduction of powdery rare earth oxides, powdery Fe and powdery FeB by using Ca as a reducing agent. EP 106948 discloses the above features together with the addition of powdery Co to the direct reduction process. Furthermore, DE 2303697 is disclosing a process for reducing powdery alloys of rare earth elements and Co by use of Ca vapour. This process is limited to the reduction of rare earth oxides and Co or Co oxide, and a coreduction of Fe, B and R cannot be derived from this disclosure. The object of the present invention is to solve or eliminate the aforesaid problems and to provide processes for producing rare earth containing R R₁ R₂ Fe B and R R₁ R₂ Fe Co B base alloy powders for magnet materials which can be produced on an industrial mass production scale and which are inexpensive and have an improved quality. This object is solved by the processes for producing rare earth iron boron and rare earth iron cobalt boron alloy powders according to independent claims 1 and 2 and 4 and 5, respectively. Further advantageous features of these processes are evident from the dependent claims. Unless otherwise noted in the present disclosure, R₁ stands for at least one element selected from the group consisting of Gd, Tb, Dy, Ho, Er, Tm and Yb, and at least 80 at of R₂ consists of Nd and or Pr, while the balance of R₂ being at least one element selected from the group consisting of rare earth elements including Y and except for R₁. According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a process for the production of rare earth containing alloy powders, It is preferred to compact said resulting mixture before the reducing to promote the reaction. However, the compacting may be omitted. According to a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided a further process for the production of rare earth containing alloy powders characterized by comprising the steps of It is preferred to compact said resulting mixture before the reducing to promote the reaction. However, the compacting may be omitted. According to a third aspect of the present invention there is provided a process for the production of Co and rare earth containing alloy powders characterized by comprising the steps of It is preferred to compact said resulting mixture before the reducing to promote the reaction. However, the compacting may be omitted. According to a fourth aspect of the present invention there is provided a further process for the production of Co and rare earth containing alloy powders characterized by comprising the steps of It is preferred to compact said resulting mixture before the reducing to promote the reaction. However, the compacting may be omitted. In all the aspects, the amount of the rare earth oxides is defined by considering the yield at the reducing reaction based on the amount of the rare earth metal in the resultant alloys, e.g., the former is about 1.1 times of the latter. In all the aspects, an oxygen amount not exceeding 6,000 ppm in the resultant alloy powder is preferred. By using the R₁ R₂ Fe B and R₁ R₂ Fe Co B base alloy powders produced according to the processes of of the present invention, it is possible to provide at low costs R₁ R₂ Fe B and R₁ R₂ Fe Co B base rare earth magnets which can be used at temperatures of not lower than room temperature in a sufficiently stable state, while they maintain magnet properties represented in terms of BH max of at least 1.6 10⁵ T A m 20 MGOe and iHc of at least 8 10⁵ A m 10 kOe . As the starting materials there may be used, for instance, inexpensive light rare earth oxides, e.g., Nd₂O₃ or Pr₆O₁₁, and inexpensive heavy rare earth oxides, e.g., Tb₃O₄, which are the intermediate materials used in the pre stage for the production of rare earth metals, Fe powders, cobalt powders, and pure boron powders whether crystalline or amorphous as well as Fe B powders or boron oxides such as B₂O₃. The alloy powders used in the processes of the present invention are produced by the step of using metallic calcium as the reducing agent and calcium chloride CaCl₂ so as to faciliate disintegration of the reduction reaction product. Thus, it is possible to easily obtain on an industrial mass production scale the alloy powders for R₁ R₂ Fe B and R₁ R₂ Fe Co B magnets, which are of high quality and which can be produced at a lower cost, as compared with the use of various bulk or lump metals. Other additional elements M described lateron may be added to the alloy powders produced by the processes according to the present invention. For this purpose, metal powders, oxides including mixed oxides with the componental elements , alloy powders including alloys with the componental elements or the compounds capable of being reduced by Ca are formulated and mixed with the material formulation forming the aforesaid R₁ R₂ Fe B and R₁ R₂ Fe Co B as the materials to be added. The alloys with the componental elements may include borides of V, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ta, Nb, Al, W, etc. Use of the alloy powders produced by the processes according to the present invention is very effective from the economical standpoint, since it is possible to simplify the steps for producing magnets and, hence, to provide the R₁ R₂ Fe B or R₁ R₂ Fe Co B base rare earth magnets at lower costs. When the starting materials, e.g., the mixed powders of the rare earth oxides with the Fe powder or further the Co powder , or metal powders such as the Fe B powder are subjected to reduction and diffusion reactions by using metallic Ca, the rare earth oxides are reduced by Ca to rare earth metals, now in a molten state, at a temperature of 950 to 1200 C, at which the reduction reaction takes place. Immediately thereupon, the molten rare earth metals are easily and homogeneously alloyed with the Fe, Co or Fe B powders, whereby the R₁ R₂ Fe B or R₁ R₂ Fe Co B base alloy powders are recovered from the rare earth oxides in a high yield. It is thus possible to make effective use of the R₁ and R₂ rare earth oxide materials. The reduction technique hereinabove mentioned is referred to as direct reduction . The incorporation of B boron in the raw material powders is effective in lowering the reduction and diffusion reaction temperatures upon forming the R₁ R₂ Fe B or R₁ R₂ Fe Co B alloy powders, so that the reduction and diffusion reactions of those alloy powders are facilitated. It has been found that in order to mass produce from cheap rare earth oxides the raw alloy powders for the R₁ R₂ Fe B or R₁ R₂ Fe Co B magnets on an industrial scale, it is most effective to produce cheap alloy powders with Fe and B, and it is possible to use the RFeB alloy powders as such for the production of magnets. Based on these findings, the processes for producing R₁ R₂ Fe b and R₁ R₂ Fe Co B alloy powders within a specific composition range have been invented. FIGURE 1 is a graphical view showing the relationship between the amount of Co added and the Curie temperature Tc in the R₁ R₂ Fe Co B base permanent magnet produced by an alloy powder obtained by a process according to the present invention. In the following further preferred embodiments of the invention will be described. In the following disclosure, means atomic , unless otherwise stated. The rare earth containing alloy powders are produced by the following steps according to the inventive process. At least one light rare earth R₂ oxide such as Nd oxide Nd₂O₃ or Pr oxide Pr₆O₁₁ , at least one heavy rare earth R₁ oxide such as Tb oxide Tb₄O₇ or Dy oxide Dy₂O₃ , an iron Fe powder, at least one powder selected from the group consisting of pure boron, ferroboron Fe B and boron oxide B₂O₃ powders, and if required, a cobalt Co powder wherein R₁ is at least one heavy rare earth element selected from the group consisting of Gd, Tb, Dy, Ho, Er, Tm and Yb, at least 80 of R₂ consists of Nd and or Pr, the balance in R₂ being at least one element selected from the group consisting of rare earth elements including Y and except for R₁, and R R₁ R₂ by atomic are formulated into a given composition with powders of metals, oxides, alloys or other compounds, if required. In this manner, the mixed raw powders are obtained. Furthermore, to the raw powders metallic Ca is added which acts as a reducing agent for the rare earth oxides and CaCl₂ powder is added which serves to promote disintegration of the reaction product after reduction. The required amount of Ca is 1.2 to 3.5 preferably 1.5 to 3.5 times by atomic ratio of the stoichiometric amount necessitated for the reduction of oxygen contained in the mixed raw powders, and the amount of CaCl₂ is 1 to 15 by weight of the raw rare earth oxides. The foregoing mixed powders comprising the rare earth oxide powder, Fe powder and ferroboron powder and, optionally, Co powder as well as the reducing agent Ca are subjected to reduction and diffusion treatments at a temperature ranging from 950 to 1200 C, preferably 950 to 1100 C, for approximately 1 to 5 hours in an inert gas atmosphere such as an argon gas atmosphere, and are cooled down to room temperature to obtain a reduction reaction product. The reaction product is crushed to a particle size of, e. g., 8 mesh 2.4 mm or less, and is put into water, in which calcium oxide CaO , CaO 2CaCl₂ and excessive calcium contained in the reaction product are converted into calcium hydroxide Ca OH ₂ and the like, so that the reaction product disintegrates, yielding a slurry mixed with water. The obtained slurry is sufficiently treated with water for the removal of excessive Ca to obtain the rare earth containing alloy powders having a particle size of about 10 to about 500 µm. At a particle size below 10 µm the oxygen amount in the resultant alloy may increase which leads to deterioration in the magnetic properties. Above 500 µm insufficient diffusion reaction may occur at the reducing procedure resulting in occurrence of an α Fe phase in the resultant magnet thereby lowering the coercivity and deteriorating the loop squareness of the demagnetization curve. It is preferred that the alloy powders produced by the process of the present invention have a cyrstal grain size of 20 to 300µm in view of workability in the subsequent step of preparing magnets, and the magnetic properties. When the reduction reaction product is put into water in a state where it is not made to a particle size not exceeding 8 mesh 2.4 mm without crushing, the aforesaid disintegration reaction is so delayed that it is unsuitable for industrial production. In addition, the heat of disintegration reaction is accumulated in the reduction product which is in turn brought to higher temperatures, so that the amount of oxygen contained therein exceeds 10000 ppm. At such an oxygen content, difficulty will be involved in the later step of making magnets. At a particle size of less than 35 mesh 0.5 mm , the reaction in water is so vigorous that burning takes place. The water used in the present invention is preferably ion exchanged water or distilled water in view of the yield of magnets in the magnet making step to be described later and the magnetic properties thereof, since there is then a decrease in the amount of oxygen contained in the alloy powders. The rare earth containing alloy powders obtained in this manner have a major phase, i.e., at least 80 vol of the entire alloy phase, of the Fe B R or Fe Co B R tetragonal structure, an oxygen content not exceeding 10000 ppm, a carbon content not exceeding 1000 ppm and a calcium content not exceeding 2000 ppm. Upon preparing the R₁ R₂ Fe B or R₁ R₂ Fe Co B alloy powders, the alloy powders produced according to the process of the present invention can be finely pulverized as such, and be immediately made into permanent magnets by means of the powder metallurgical technique involving compacting sintering normal sintering or press sintering aging. The finely pulverizing can be effected by using an Atriter, a ball mill, jet mill or the like preferably to a particle size of 1 20 µm, more preferably 2 10 µm. It is to be noted that, in order to produce anisotropic magnets, the particles can be oriented and formed in a magnetic field. If the rare earth alloy powders produced according to the processes of the present invention are used, it is possible to omit some steps of alloy melting casting coarse pulverization from the entire steps for preparing permanent magnets using as the raw bulk or lump materials of rare earth metal, iron and boron. There is also the advantage that the price of magnet products can be cut down due to the fact that cheap rare earth oxides can be used as the starting material. In addition, the present invention is economically advantageous in view of the fact that practical permanent magnet materials can easily be obtained on a mass production scale. The oxygen contained in the alloy powders produced according to the process of the present invention combines with the rare earth elements, which are most apt to oxidation, to form rare earth oxides. For that reason, an oxygen content exceeding 10000 ppm is not preferred, since the oxygen then remains in the permanent magnets in the form of oxides of R and Fe, so that the magnet properties drop, in particular the coercive force drops below 8 10⁵ A m 10 kOe and Br drops, too. Oxygen is preferably 6000 ppm or less, more preferably 4000 ppm or less. If the amount of carbon exceeds 1000 ppm, the carbon remains in the permanent magnets in the form of carbides R₃C, R₂C₃, RC₂, etc. , resulting in a considerable lowering of the coercive force below 8 10⁵ A m 10 kOe , and accompanied by a deterioration in the loop squareness of the demagnetization curve. A carbon amount not exceeding 600 ppm is preferred. When the calcium content exceeds 2000 ppm, a large amount of strongly reducing Ca vapor is generated in the intermediate sintering step of the subsequent steps for making magnets from the alloy powders produced according to the present invention. The Ca vapor contaminates the heat treatment furnace used to a considerable extent and, in some cases, give serious damage to the wall thereof, such that it becomes impossible to effect the industrially stable production of magnets. In addition, if the amount of Ca contained in the alloy powders formed by reduction is so large that a large amount of Ca vapor is generated at the time of heat treatment involved in the subsequent steps for making magnets, this will damage the heat treatment furnace used. This also leads to a large amount of Ca remaining in the resulting magnets, entailing deteriorations in the magnet properties thereof as a result. A calcium content of 1000 ppm or less is preferred. Based on the similar reason Ca as the reducing agent should not exceed 3.5 times of the stoichiometric amount. On the other hand, where the amount of Ca is below 1.2 times of the stoichiometric amount, the reduction and diffusion reactions are so incomplete that a large amount of unreduced matters remains resulting in that the rare earth alloy powders produced by the process of the present invention cannot be obtained, or a bad yield will result. The Ca amount of 1.5 2.5 times is preferred, and most preferred is 1.6 2.0 times of the stoichiometric amount. Where the amount of CaCl₂ exceeds 15 by weight of the rare earth oxides, the amount of Cl chloride ions increases considerably in water with which the reduction and diffusion reaction product is treated, and reacts with the resulting rare earth alloy powders. The resultant powders contain 10000 ppm or higher of oxygen, and so cannot be used as the starting material for R₁ R₂ Fe B or R₁ R₂ Fe Co B magnets. In the event that CaCl₂ is used in an amount below 1 by weight, it gives rise to difficulty in disintegration of the reduction and diffusion reaction product, when put into water, so that it is impossible to treat that powder with water. The amount of CaCl₂ is in a range of preferably 2 to 10 by weight, more preferably 3 to 6 by weight. The range of components rare earth elements R and boron B of the rare earth alloy powders produced by the process according to the present invention is The reason is that R standing for at least one element selected from the group consisting of rare earth elements including Y is an essential element for the R₁ R₂ Fe B and R₁ R₂ Fe Co B base permanent magnets, which in an amount below 12.5 at , causes precipitation of Fe from the present base alloy, gives rise to a sharp drop of the coercive force and, in an amount exceeding 20 at , allows the coercive force to assume a value of 8 10⁵ A m 10 kOe or higher, but causes the residual magnetic flux density Br to decrease to a value which is smaller than that required to obtain BH max of at least 1.6 10⁵ T A m 20 MGOe . The amount of R₁ standing for at least one heavy rare earth element selected from the group consisting of Gd, Tb, Dy, Ho, Er, Tm and Yb constitutes a part of the aforesaid R. In an amount of barely 0.05 at , R₁ to be substituted serves to increase Hc and improves the loop rectangularity of demagnetization curves, leading to an incerease in BH max. Therefore, the lower limit of R₁ is 0.05 at , taking into account the effects upon increases in both iHc and BH max. As the amount of R₁ increases, iHc increases, and BH max reaches a peak at 0.4 at and decreases only gradually. However, for instance, even a 3 at R₁ substitution gives BH max of 2.4 10⁵ T A m 30 MGOe or higher. Higher iHc i.e., a larger amount of R₁ is more advantageous in applications wherein stability is particularly demanded. However, the elements constituting R₁ are only slightly found in rare earth ores, and are relatively expensive. Hence, the upper limit of R₁ is 5 at . Particularly preferred as R₁ is Dy and Tb, while Tm and Yb would be difficult in procurement. The R₂ element constituting the balance in the entire R is a main constitutional one for the permanent magnets produced by the alloys of the processes according to the present invention, and 80 to 100 of R₂ consists of Nd and or Pr, the balance 20 to 0 in R₂ being at least one element selected from the group consisting of rare earth elements including Y except for R₁. In a range departing from the aforesaid range, it is impossible to obtain such magnet properties as expressed in terms of BH max of 1.6 10⁵ T A M 20 MGOe or higher and iHc of 8 10⁵ A m 10 kOe or higher. It is desired that the amount of Sm and La to be used as R₂ be reduced as much as possible. When the amount of B is below 4 at , iHc drops to 8 10⁵ A m 10 kOe or lower. As the amount of B increases, iHc increases as is the case with R, but Br decreases. In order to obtain a BH max of 1.6 10⁵ T A m 20 MGOe or higher, the amount of B should be 20 at or lower. Hence, the amount of B is in a range of 4 at to 20 at . The disclosure concerning R, R₁, R₂ and B is valid for all the aspects of the present invention. As mentioned in the foregoing, the substitution of Co for a part of Fe has an effect upon increase in the Curie temperature Tc of the FeBR base permanent magnets FIGURE 1 . As the amount of Co increases, the Curie temperature increases continuously. Since Co is effective and produces a significant effect in a slight amount, therefore, the presence at least 0.1 at Co is preferred. It is to be noted, however, that no difficulty is experienced in the production of the alloy powders, even when the amount of Co is below that lower limit. When the amount of Co exceeds 35 at , the saturated magnetization and coercive force of the permanent magnets decrease. Fe is an element inevitable for the R₁ R₂ Fe B base permanent magnets produced with the alloys obtained by the processes of the present invention, which, in an amount of below 60 at , causes a lowering of residual magnetic flux density Br and, in an amount exceeding 83.5 at , does not give any high coercive force. Hence, the amount of Fe is limited to 60 at 83.5 at in the 1st and 2nd aspect of the present invention. It is noted that Fe shows a similar function in the R₁ R₂ Fe Co B base permanent magnets produced with the alloys obtained by the processes of the present invention. However, the amount of Fe is limited to 40 82 at preferably 45 at or more in the 3rd and 4th aspect of the present invention. 60 at or more of the sum of Fe and Co is preferred, and 60 at or more Fe is most preferred. In general, the incorporation of at least one element selected from the group consisting of the following additional elements M in place of a part of Fe of the aforesaid FeBR and FeCoBR permanent magnet alloys makes it possible to increase the coercive force thereof. The additional elements M are in amounts not exceeding the values specified below These additional elements M may be added to the starting mixed powders in the form of metal powders, oxides, alloy powders or mixed oxides with the alloy forming elements, or compounds capable of being reduced by Ca. The aforesaid additional elements M have an effect upon the increase in iHc and improvement in the loop rectangularity of demagnetization curves. However, as the amount of M increases, Br decreases. To obtain BH max of 1.6 10⁵ T A m 20 MGOe or higher, Br should be at least 0,9 T 9 kG . For that reason, the upper limit of the respective elements M is mixed at the aforesaid value except for the case with Bi, Ni and Mn. Bi is limited based on its high vapor pressure, and Ni and Mn are limited in view of iHc drop. When two or more additional elements M are included, the upper limit of the sum of M is not more than the maximum atomic percentage among those values specified above of said elements M actually added. For instance, when Ti, Ni and Nb are included, the upper limit of the sum thereof does not exceed 9 , as given for Nb. Among others, preference is given to V, Nb, Ta, Mo, W, Cr and Al. The amount of the additional elements to be included is preferably smaller than the maximum amounts give, and is effectively 3 at or lower, in general. Referring to Al, it is preferably included in an amount of 0.1 to 3 at , particularly 0.2 to 2 at . Si raises the Curie temperature. Referring to the crystal phase of the rare earth containing alloy powder obtained by the process according to the present invention, its major phase i.e., at least 80 vol , or 90 vol , 95 vol or higher of the entire alloy of the tetragonal structure is essential to obtain fine and uniform alloy powders which can exhibit high magnetic properties as magnets. This magnetic phase is constituted by an FeBR or FeCoBR tetragonal type crystal with the grain boundaries being surrounded by a nonmagnetic phase. The nonmagnetic phase is mainly constituted by an R rich phase R metal . In the case where the amount of B is relatively large, there is also partly present a B rich phase. The presence of the nonmagnetic grain boundary region is considered to contribute to high properties, particularly to provide a high performance nucleation type magnet by sintering, and presents one important structural feature of the alloy obtained by the process according to the present invention. The nonmagnetic phase is effective even in only a slight amount, and, for instance, at least 1 vol is sufficient. Turning to the lattice parameters of the tetragonal crystal, the a axis is about 0.88 nm 8.8 Å , while the c axis is about 1.22 nm 12.2 Å , and the central composition is considered to be R₂Fe₁₄B or R₂ Fe,Co ₁₄B. The alloy powders obtained by the inventive process have generally the crystalline nature, i.e., typically with a crystal grain size of the crystals constituting the powder particle amounting to at least about 1 µm as far as the powder particle is larger than this size. The amount of the tetragonal structure phase can be measured by means of the intensity of the X ray diffractometric chart or an X ray microanalyser. Further, the sintered permanent magnet produced by using the alloy powder obtained by the inventive process is crystalline, wherein the tetragonal RFeB or R Fe,Co B crystal has preferably an average crystal grain size of 1 40 µm more preferably 3 20 µm for providing excellent permanent magnet characteristics. According to the present invention as explained in detail, the alloy powders produced by the inventive process having a similar composition for producing the R₁ R₂ Fe B or R₁ R₂ Fe Co B base magnets can be obtained at low costs, using as the starting materials rare earth oxides and further boron oxide etc. . By using those alloy powders, it is possible to obtain the R₁ R₂ Fe B or R₁ R₂ Fe Co B base permanent magnets having excellent properties and to omit the steps of preparing alloy powders of the specific composition, which comprises isolation and purification of rare earth metals alloy making by melting cooling usually, casting pulverization, from the process for producing magnets, whereby that process can be simplified. Such simplification of the magnet production process is very useful in that any contamination of unpreferred components or impurities oxygen, etc. into the products is avoided. In particular, the prevention of oxygen, etc. from entering the products in the steps from melting through pulverization requires complicated process control and is carried out with difficulty, and offers one cause for a rise in the production cost. Furthermore, it is not necessarily required to separate the rare earth oxides to be used into the individual oxides of rare earth. By using as the starting material a mixture of rare earth oxides, which has a composition approximate or corresponding to the target composition, or to which an additional amount of rare earth oxides is added to make up for a deficiency, it is possible to simplify the step In addition, the alloys obtained by the process of the present invention are very effective in that they are directly obtained as the alloys having a major phase of a RFeB or R Fe,Co B tetragonal magnetic phase inevitable for magnetic properties by the direct reduction technique, and are very advantageous in that they are obtained directly in the powdery form. The alloy powders obtained by the process according to the present invention may contain, in addition to R, B, and Fe or Fe Co , impurities which are inevitably entrained from the industrial process of production. For instance, the alloy powders containing a total of 2 at or lower of P, 2 at or lower of S and 2 at or lower of Cu still exhibit practical magnetic properties, which, however should be limited to the amounts corresponding to a Br of at least 0,9 T 9 kG since these impurities decrease Br, and should be as little as possible e.g., less than 0.5 at or less than 0.1 at . In the following, the embodiments of the present invention will be explained in further detail with reference to the examples. A total of 182.2 grams of the aforesaid starting powders were mixed together in a V type mixer aiming at a resultant alloy having a target composition of 30.5 Nd 3.6 Dy 64.75 Fe 1.15 B wt 14.1 Nd 1.5 Dy 77.3 Fe 7.1 B at . Note that, generally, the starting mixed powders are formulated by considering the yield of reduction reaction of the oxides. The resulting mixture was then compacted or press formed, and was charged in a vessel made of stainless steel. After the vessel had been placed in a muffle furnace, the temperature within the vessel through which an argon gas stream was fed was increased. The furnace was kept constant at 1150 C for 3 hours, and was then cooled off to room temperature. The thus obtained reduction reaction product was coarsly pulverized to 2.4 mm through 8 mesh through , and was thereafter poured in 10 liter ion exchanged water, in which calcium oxide CaO , CaO 2CaCl₂ and unreacted calcium residue contained in the reaction product were in turn converted into calcium hydroxide Ca OH ₂ to disintegrate or collapse the reaction product and put it into a slurried state. After one hour stirring, the slurry was allowed to stand for 30 minutes in a stationary manner, then the formed calcium hydroxide suspension was discharged followed by re pouring of water. In this manner, the steps of stirring stationary holding removal of suspension were repeated plural times. The Nd Dy Fe B base alloy powder separated and obtained in this manner was dried in vacuum to obtain 86 grams of the rare earth alloy powder of 20 to 300 µm produced according to the inventive process suitable for magnet materials. As a result of component analysis, the obtained alloy powder was found to have the desired composition of The measurement of the X ray diffraction pattern showed that the obtained alloy powder included as the major phase 95 or more of an intermetallic compound of a RFeB tetragonal type structure in which there was a 0.877 nm 8.77Å , and c 1.219 nm 12,19 Å . The powder was finely pulverized to a mean particle size of 2.70 µm and was compacted at a pressure of 1471 bar 1.5 t cm² in a magnetic field of 8 10⁵ A m 10 kOe . Thereafter, the compact was sintered at 1120 C for 2 hours in an Ar flow, and was aged at 600 C for 1 hour to prepare a permanent magnet sample. The sample was found to exhibit excellent magnet properties as expressed in term of Br 1.14 T 11.4kG , iHc 8.5 10⁵ A m 10.6kOe and BH max 2.432 10⁵ T A m 30.4 MGOe . With a view to obtain an alloy having a target composition of 30.5 Nd 1.2 Dy 67.2 Fe 1.2 B wt 13.8 Nd 0.5 Dy 78.5 Fe 7.2 B by atomic , a total of 158.3 grams of the aforesaid starting powders were reduction treated at 1050 C for 3 hours otherwise in the same manner as described in Example 1. In this manner, the rare rare earth alloy powder of 20 to 500 µm produced by the inventive process for magnet materials was obtained. As a result of the component analysis, the obtained powder was found to have a desired composition of The measurement of the X ray diffraction pattern showed, that the obtained alloy powder included as the major phase 92 or more of an intermetallic compound of a RFeB tetragonal type structure in which there was a 0.879 nm 8.79 Å , and c 1.220 nm 12.20 Å . A permanent magnet sample was prepared according to Example 1, and was found to have excellent magnet properties as expressed in term of Br 1.24 T 12.4 kG , iHc 8.24 10⁵ A m 10.3kOe , and BH max 2.9 10⁵ T A m 36.2 MGOe . With a view to obtain an alloy of a target composition of 24.5 Nd 2.5 La 4.3 Dy 2.4 Gd 64.6 Fe 1.7 B wt 11 Nd 2 La 1.7 Dy 1 Gd 75 Fe 10 B by atomic , a total of 173.8 grams of the aforesaid starting powders were treated according to Example 1. In this manner, 85 grams powder of 30 to 500 µm were obtained. As a result of component analysis, the obtained powder was found to have a desired composition of The measurement of the X ray diffraction pattern showed that the obtained powder included as the major phase 89 or more of an intermetallic compound of a RFeB tetragonal type structure in which there was a 0.880 nm 8.80 Å , and c 1.224 nm 12.24 Å . The powder was finely pulverized to a mean particle size of 3.5 µm, and was compacted at a pressure of 1471 bar 1.5 t cm² in a magnetic field of 8 10⁵ A m 10 kOe . Thereafter, the compact was sintered at 1100 C for 2 hours in an argon flow, and was aged at 600 C for 1 hour to prepare a permanent magnet sample, which was found to exhibit excellent magnet properties as expressed in term of Br 1.05 T 10.5 kG , iHc 1.08 10⁶ A m 13.5 kOe and BH max 1.98 10⁵ T A m 24.7 MGOe . With a view to obtain an alloy having a target composition of 29.7 Nd 3.7 Dy 64.8 Fe 1.3 B 0.4 Al by weight 13.5 Nd 1.5 Dy 76.0 Fe 8 B 1.0 Al by atomic , a total of 168.2 grams of the aforesaid starting powders were reduction treated at 1080 C for 3 hours otherwise according to Example 1. In this manner, an alloy powder of 30 to 500 µm was obtained in an amount of 83 grams. As a result of a component analysis, the obtained powder was found to have a desired composition of The measurement of the X ray diffraction pattern showed that the obtained powder included as the major phase 92 or more of an intermetallic compound of a RFeB tetragonal type structure in which there was a 0.879 nm 8.79Å , and c 1.212 nm 12.12 Å . A permanent magnet sample was prepared according to Example 2, and was found to have excellent magnet properties as expressed in term of Br 1.13 T 11.3 kG , iHc 1.40 10⁶ A m 17.5 kOe , and BH max 2.384 10⁵ T A m 29.8 MGOe . With a view to obtain an alloy of the composition of 29.4 Nd 3.7 Dy 64.2 Fe 1.3 B 1.4 Nb by weight 12.5 Nd 1.5 Dy 77.0 Fe 8 B 1 Nb by atomic , a total of 158.2 grams of the starting powders were treated according to Example 3. In this manner, 88 grams powder of 20 to 500 µm were obtained. As a result of a component analysis, the obtained alloy powder was found to have a desired composition of The measurement of the X ray diffraction pattern showed that the obtained powder included as the major phase 95 or more of an intermetallic compound of a RFeB tetragonal type structure in which there was a 0.880 nm 8.8 Å , and c 1.223 nm 12.23 Å . A permanent magnet sample was prepared according to Example 3, and was found to have excellent magnet properties as expressed in term of Br 1.15 T 11.5 kG iHc 1.16 10⁶ A m 14.5 kOe , and BH max 2.44 10⁵ T A m 30.5 MGOe . A total of 184.2 grams of the aforesaid starting powders were mixed together in a V type mixer with a view to obtain an alloy having a target composition of 30.0 Nd 3.6 Dy 47.7 Fe 17.5 Co 1.12 B by weight 14.0 Nd 1.5 Dy 57.5 Fe 20 Co 7.0 B by atomic . The resulting mixture was then compacted, and was charged in a vessel made of stainless steel. After the vessel had been placed in a muffle furnace, the temperature within the vessel, through which an argon gas flow was fed, increased. The furnace was kept constant at 1150 C for 3 hours, and was then cooled off to room temperature. The thus obtained reduction reaction product was coarsely pulverized to 2.4 mm through 8 mesh through , and was thereafter charged in 10 liter of ion exchanged water, in which calcium oxide CaO , CaO 2CaCl₂ and unreacted calcium residue contained in the reaction product were in turn converted into calcium hydroxide Ca OH ₂ to disintegrate the reaction product and put it into a slurried state. After one hour stirring, the slurry was allowed to stand for 30 minutes in a stationary manner to discharge the formed calcium hydroxide suspension, followed by re pouring of water. In this manner, the steps of stirring stationary holding removal of suspension were repeated plural times. The Nd Dy Fe Co B base alloy powder separated and obtained in this manner was dried in vacuum to obtain 84 grams of the rare earth alloy powder of 20 to 300 µm produced according to the inventive process, which was suitable for magnet materials. As a result of a component analysis, the obtained alloy powder was found to have a desired composition of The measurement of the X ray diffraction pattern showed that the obtained alloy powder included as the major phase 95 or more of an intermetallic compound of a R Fe,Co B tetragonal type structure in which there was a 0.876 nm 8.76Å , and c 1.215 nm 12.15 Å . The powder was finely pulverized to a mean particle size of 2.50 µm, and was compacted at a pressure of 1471 bar 1.5 t cm² in a magnetic field of 8.0 10⁵ A m 10 kOe . Thereafter, the compact was sintered at 1120 C for 2 hours in an Ar flow, and was aged at 600 C for 1 hour to prepare a permanent magnet sample. The sample was found to exhibit excellent magnet properties as expressed in term of Br 1.15 T 11.5 kG , iHc 1.304 10⁶ A m 16.3 kOe , and BH max 2.536 10⁴ T A m 31.7 MGOe . The coefficient of temperature of Br of this alloy magnet between 25 C and 100 C the same shall hereinafter apply was expressed in terms of α 0.075 C. With a view to obtain an alloy having a target composition of 30.4 Nd 1.2 Dy 62.7 Fe 4.5 Co 1.2 B by weight 13.8 Nd 0.5 Dy 73.5 Fe 5 Co 7.2 B by atomic , a total of 166.4 grams of the aforesaid starting powders were reduction treated at 1070 C for 3 hours according to Example 6. In this manner, the rare earth alloy powder of 20 to 500 µm produced according to the inventive process for magnet materials was obtained in an amount of 79 grams. As a result of component analysis, the obtained alloy powder was found to have a desired composition of The measurement of the X ray diffraction pattern showed that the obtained alloy powder included as the major phase 93 or more of an intermetallic compound of a R Fe,Co B tetragonal type structure in which there was a 0.789 nm 8.79 Å , and c 1.218 nm 12.18 Å . A permanent magnet sample was prepared according to Example 6, and was found to have excellent magnet properties as expressed in term of Br 1.25 T 12.5 kG , iHc 9.68 10⁵ A m 12.1 kOe , and BH max 2.992 10⁵ T A m 37.4 MGOe . The coefficient of temperature of Br of this alloy magnet was expressed in terms of α 0.09 C. As a result of a component analysis, the obtained alloy powder was found to have a desired composition of The measurement of the X ray diffraction pattern showed that the obtained powder included as the major phase 87 or more of an intermetallic compound of a R Fe,Co B tetragonal type structure in which there was a 0.880 nm 8.80 Å , and c 1.224 nm 12.24 Å . The powder was finely pulverized to a mean particle size of 3.5 µm and was compacted at a pressure of 1.5 t cm² in a magnetic field of 8.0 10⁵ A m 10 kOe . Thereafter, the compact was sintered at 1100 C for 2 hours in an Ar stream, and was aged at 600 C for 1 hour to prepare a permanent magnet sample, which was found to have excellent magnet properties as expressed in term of B 1.07 T 10.7 kG, iHc 8.32 10⁵ A m 10.4 kOe , and BH max 2.016 10⁵ T A m 25.2 MGOe . The coefficient of temperature of Br of this alloy magnet was expressed in terms of α 0.088 C. With a view to obtain an alloy having the composition of 29.6 Nd 3.7 Dy 56.02 Fe 8.96 Co 1.3 B 0.4 Al wt 13.5 Nd 1.5 Dy 66.0 Fe 10 Co 8 B 1.0 Al at , a total of the aforesaid starting powders were reduction treated according to Example 6 at 1080 C for 3 hours. In this manner, an alloy powder of 30 to 500 µm was obtained in an amount of 88 grams. As a result of a component analysis, the obtained alloy powder was found to have a desired composition of The measurement of the X ray diffraction pattern showed that the obtained alloy powder included as the major phase 92 or more of an intermetallic compound of a R Fe,Co B tetragonal type structure in which there was a 0.878 nm 8.78 Å , and c 1.217 nm 12.17 Å . A permanent magnet sample was prepared according to Example 7, and was found to have excellent magnet properties as expressed in term of Br 1.15 T 11.5 kG , iHc 1.40 10⁶ A m 17.5 kOe , and BH max 2.564 10⁵ T A m 30.8 MGOe . The coefficient of temperature of Br of this alloy magnet was expressed in terms of α 0.085 C. With a view to obtain an alloy of the composition 27.4 Nd 3.7 Dy 52.7 Fe 13.5 Co 1.3 B 1.4 Nb wt 12.5 Nd 1.5 Dy 62.0 Fe 15.0 Co 8 B 1 Nb at , a total of 158.2 grams of the starting powders were treated according to Example 8. In this manner, 88 grams of a powder of 20 to 500 µm were obtained. As a result of a component analysis, the obtained alloy powder was found to have a desired composition of The measurement of the X ray diffraction pattern showed that the obtained powder included as the major phase 95 or more of an intermetallic compound of a R Fe,Co B tetragonal type structure in which there was a 0.878 nm 8.78 Å , and c 1.217 nm 12.17 Å . A permanent magnet sample was prepared according to Example 8, and was found to have excellent magnet properties as expressed in terms of Br 1.15 T 11.5 kG , iHc 1.16 10⁶ A m 14.5 kOe , and BH max 2.44 10⁵ T A m 30.5 MGOe.