# Optical communication cable

## Claims
Optisches Kommunikationskabel, umfassend

## Description
This invention relates to a cable for use inoptical communication as an indispensable communicationmeans for the highly informationalized society. With the recent switching over to the informationalizedsociety, the surrounding technologies are alsoin rapid development. Among others, optical communicationhas many features such as a distinguished transmissioncapacity, being free from communication troubles due toelectric discharge, lightning, electromagnetic induction,etc., and no use of precious copper, as compared with theelectrical communication based on the conventional copperwires. Therefore optical communication is highly expectedas an information transmission means. Optical fibres made from quartz, glass, andtransparent synthetic resin are used for strands. Theformer two are very brittle, and damaged or broken byan impact force suddenly applied thereto during thehandling, and thus are usually used after coating withsynthetic resins such as silicone resin, etc. To prevent damage and breakage of the strandsincluding the optical fibers based on the transparentsynthetic resin due to elongation during the handling,a tension resistant material or strength member is providedaround the strand of optical fibers, and the tension resistant material is further coated with a syntheticresin. An impact force applied thereto during the handlingis borne on the tension resistant material. As a tension resistantmaterial, copper, wires, fibre reinforced plastics FRP wires, carbon fibers,aramid fibers, etc. have been so far used. For the practical purpose, it is desirable thatthe optical communication cable is light in weight andthin, and in this respect the aramid fibers are preferableas the tension resistant material, but have such problemsas high moisture absorption and high cost owing to theproduction route through solution spinning. High tenacityfibers of polyethylene may be used, but this use has such aproblem as restriction to the processing temperature forforming a synthetic resin coating. In addition, thesynthetic resin based optical fibers have such a problemas increase of transmission loss due to the heat when thesynthetic resin coating is formed by extrusion. It isnecessary that the tension resistant material works as aheat insulating material between the optical fiber strandand the outer synthetic resin coating. EP A 0 017 310 discloses a polyester which has been found toexhibit an anisotropic melt phase at a temperature which enablesit readily to undergo melt processing to form quality fibers,molded articles, etc. Said polyester is different in characterfrom earlier polyesters and includes as essential ingredientsmoieties EP A 0 091 253 discloses an elongated member of substantiallyuniform cross sectional configuration for use as a stiffeningsupport in an optical fiber cable, such elongated member beingthe product of melt extrusion of a thermotropic liquidcrystalline polymer and fiber optic cables containing such anelongated member. GB A 1 565 724 discloses a cable suitable for use in thetransmission of light comprising An object of the present invention is to provide an opticalcommunication cable with less damage or breakage during thepreparation or handling. Another object of the present invention is to provide a thinoptical communication cable of light weight. Other object of the present invention is to provide an optical communication cable of low cost with lesstransmission loss during the preparation. According to the present invention, there is provided an optical communicationcable comprising A an optical fiber strand, B a tension resistantmaterial and C a synthetic resin coating layer,wherein said tension resistant material consists of fiber yarns,said fiber yarns are provided between the optical fiber strandand the synthetic resin coating layer and surround said opticalfiber strand in a way that said fiber strand is prevented fromcoming into direct contact with the synthetic resin coatinglayer, The optical fiber strand for use in the present inventionincludes that of quartz based, multi component glass based, andtransparent synthetic resin based optical fibers. The opticalfiber strand is in such a structure that a core of higher refractive index is surrounded by a cladding of lower refractiveindex. The light that obliquely proceeds through the coreundergoes total reflection at the boundary surface between thecore and the cladding owing to an angle exceeding the criticalangle and propagates through the core. Core and cladding of thequartz based optical fiber strand are both made of pure quartzglass. To give a difference in the refractive index,phosphorus, aluminum, germanium, titanium, etc. may be added tothe core, whereas boron, fluorine, etc. may be added to thecladding, or synthetic resin or other materials having a lowerrefractive index than that of the core may be used for thecladding. Multi component glass based optical fiber strands containsodium oxide, boron oxide, and thallium oxide besides SiO As the transparent synthetic resin based optical fiberstrand, polystyrene based and polymethylmethacrylate basedoptical fibers are used. It is important to remove foreign matters and impuritiesfrom these optical fiber strands. As the tension resistant material, fibers obtained by meltspinning an aromatic copolyester showing an anisotropy in themolten state and comprising 40 to 70 mole p hydroxybenzoic acid residue, 15 to 30 mole aromatic dicarboxylic acid residue and 15 to 30 mole aromaticdiol residue, The aromatic polyesters and copolyesters mentioned belowwhich do not fall within the definition of the aromaticcopolyesters used according to the present invention are merelymentioned for illustration purposes. The aromatic polyester showing an anisotropy in the moltenstate is the one capable of transmitting light at a temperature,at which the aromatic polyester becomes flowable, when thepowdery polyester sample is put and heated on a heating samplestage placed between two polarizing plates which are at rightangles 90 from each other. Examples of the aromaticpolyester are those prepared from aromatic dicarboxylic acids,aromatic diols and or aromatic hydroxycarboxylic acids, andtheir derivatives, as disclosed in Published Examined JapanesePatent Application Nos. 18016 1981, 20008 1980 and the like. Ifdesired, aromatic polyesters may be copolymers prepared from theaforesaid compounds with alicyclic dicarboxylic acids, alicyclicdiols, aliphatic diols and their derivatives. Examples of the aromatic dicarboxylic acids are terephthalicacid, isophthalic acid,4,4 dicarboxydiphenyl, 2,6 dicarboxynaphthalene, 1,2 bis 4 carboxyphenoxy ethaneand their derivatives substituted on the nucleus withalkyl, aryl, alkoxy or halogen. Examples of the aromatic diols are hydroquinone,resorcinol, 4,4 dihydroxydiphenyl, 4,4 dihydroxybenzophenone,4,4 dihydroxydiphenylmethane, 4,4 dihydroxydiphenylethane,2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane,4,4 dihydroxydiphenylether, 4,4 dihydroxydiphenylsulfone,4,4 dihydroxydiphenylsulfide, 2,6 dihydroxynaphthalene,1,5 dihydroxynaphthalene and their derivatives substitutedon the nucleus with alkyl, aryl, alkoxy orhalogen. Examples of the aromatic hydroxycarboxylic acidsare p hydroxybenzoic acid, m hydroxybenzoic acid, 2 hydroxynaphthalene 6 carboxylicacid, 1 hydroxynaphthalene 5 carboxylicacid and their derivatives substituted onthe nucleus with alkyl, aryl, alkoxy or halogen. Examples of the alicyclic dicarboxylic acidsare trans 1,4 dicarboxycyclohexane, cis 1,4 dicarboxycyclohexaneand their derivatives substituted on thenucleus with alkyl, aryl or halogen. Examples of the alicyclic and aliphatic diolsare trans 1,4 dihydroxycyclohexane, cis 1,4 dihydroxycyclohexane,ethylene glycol, 1,4 butanediol, xylylenedioland the like. Of these aromatic polyesters prepared using acombination of the acid compounds and the hydroxylcompounds as described above, preferred as the tension resistant material are In the preparation of the aromatic polyesterusing the aforesaidstarting material, said materials as such or afteresterification with an aliphatic or aromatic monocarboxylicacid or its derivative, or an aliphatic alcohol, a phenolor its derivative, can be subjected to polycondensationreaction according to, for example, a bulk polymerization,solution polymerization or suspension polymerizationmethod known in this art. The reaction can be carried outat a temperature ranging from 150 to 360 C underatmospheric pressure or a reduced pressure ranging from10 to 0.1 torr, if desired, in the presence of a polymerizationcatalyst such as Sb , Ti or Ge containingcompounds, a stabilizer such as phosphorus compoundsand or a filler such as TiO The aromatic polyester usable in the presentinvention may be defined in terms of the molecular weight.However, there are problems such that depending on thecomposition and structure of the polymer, a solventcapable of dissolving the polymer uniformly can hardly befound, and accuracy in the measurement of molecularweight is questionable. Accordingly, the molecular weightcannot be used for the definition of the aromatic polyesterusable in the present invention. For this reason, a flowing temperature is used therefor, which is a physicalvalue corresponding to the molecular weight. In the presentinvention, the flowing temperature is defined to be atemperature, at which the aromatic polyester flows througha nozzle of 1 mm in diameter and 10 mm in length, andreaches an apparent viscosity of 4800 Pa s 48,000 poise , whenheated at a rate of 4 C min. under a pressure of 9810 kPa 100kg cm An ordinary screw type extruder can be usedfor the melt spinning. The fibers for use in the presentinvention can be prepared by extruding fibers through thenozzles, followed by winding, or further by stretchingand or heat treatment. The thus obtained fibers are provided aroundand along the optical fiber strand as a tension resistantmaterial, and a synthetic resin coating layer is furtherformed around and along the tension resistant material byextrusion molding. The synthetic resin for the coatinglayer includes, for example, polyethylene, polypropylene,polyethylene terephthalate, polyhexamethylene adipamide,polycaprolactam, polyvinyl chloride, fluorine based polymer,silicone based polymer, polyurethane, polyamideimide,polysulfide, polysulfone, synthetic rubber, etc. Theextrusion molding can be carried out in an ordinary mannerby an ordinary apparatus. It is important that the optical fiber strand isprevented from direct contact with the synthetic resincoating layer by providing yarns of fibers obtained by meltspinning of an aromatic polyester showing an anisotropyin the molten state between the optical fiber strand andthe synthetic resin coating layer. When the opticalfiber strand and the synthetic resin coating layer are indirect contact with each other, the strand will be brokenor damaged by a force applied during the handling such aspreparation, transportation, laying, etc., of cables.When an optical fiber strand based on a transparentsynthetic resin is used, reduction in transmission lossby heat may be expected, depending on the working temperature.For example, in the formation of a synthetic resincoating layer, the optical fiber strand can be preventedfrom direct contact with the synthetic resin coating layer by providing the optical fiber strand at the center of acable. For example, at least two fiber yarns as a tension resistantmaterial are introduced in parallel with anoptical fiber strand by means of a guide to make thefiber yarns surround the optical fiber strand as thecenter, or to spirally wind the optical fiber strand withthe fiber yarns, or to weave the fiber yarns around theoptical fiber strand. An optical communication cable can be alsoprepared by twisting, or winding a plurality of multifilamentyarns of fibers obtained by melt spinning anaromatic polyester showing an anisotropy in the moltenstate around the optical fiber strand or by surroundingthe optical fiber strand with a fabric of the multifilamentyarns. The tension resistant material for use in thepresent invention can be combined with a plurality ofoptical fiber strands, or can be used for a coaxialcommunication cable comprising a copper wire cable and anoptical fiber strand. The tension resistant material made from anaromatic polyester showing an anisotropy in the moltenstate has a high tenacity and a high modulus of elasticity,and is free from moisture absorption, and also changes inthe coefficient of linear expansion, etc. by temperaturein a range of 60 to 60 C are very small. Thus thepresent optical communication cable is free from breakage or damages during the preparation, transportation andlaying of cables, and also from influences by workingatmospheres and is distinguished in the durability. Inthe formation of a synthetic resin coating layer, thetension resistant material acts as a heat insulatingmaterial and the transmission loss of the cable is small. The present invention will be described in detailbelow, referring to Reference Example, Examples andComparative Examples, which however are not limitative ofthe present invention. Determination of optical anisotropy was conductedby placing a sample on a heating stage and visuallyobserving the sample under a polarized light while heatingthe sample at a rate of 25 C min. 7.20 kg 40 moles of p acetoxybenzoic acid,2.49 kg 15 moles of terephthalic acid, 0.83 kg 5moles of isophthalic acid, and 5.45 kg 20.2 moles of4,4 diacetoxydiphenyl were charged into a polymerizationtank with comb type stirring blades, and subjected topolymerization at 330 C for 3 hours in a nitrogen gasatmosphere with heating and vigorous stirring, whileremoving acetic acid formed from the polymerization tank.Then, the polymerization tank was gradually cooled to 200 C,and the resulting polymers were taken out of the reaction system, whereby 10.88 kg of the polymers was obtained which corresponded to 97.8 of theoretical yield . Then, the polymers were pulverized in a hammermill made by Hosokawa Micronmill K.K., Japan to particleshaving sizes of not more than 2.5 mm. The particles weretreated at 280 C in a nitrogen gas atmosphere for 5 hoursin a rotary kiln. The treated particles had a flowingtemperature of 326 C, and the optical anisotropy wasobserved above 350 C. The thus obtained polyester was melt spun by ascrew type extruder at a spinning temperature of 370 Cthrough 512 nozzles having a nozzle diameter of 0.07 mm.The thus obtained yellow transparent fibers were heattreated at 320 C for 5 hours. The heat treated fibershad 2.8 deniers d , a tenacity of 29.0 g d, an elongationof 2.4 , and a modulus of elasticity of 1,240 g d.The fibers were then left standing in a thermostatchamber having a constant humidity of 60 RH and a temperatureof 23 C for 24 hours, and the moisture absorptionwas found 0.0 by thermogravimetric analysis. One yarnof the fibers had 1,434 deniers. A cable of quartz based optical fibers wasprepared with the fibers of Reference Example as a tension resistantmaterial. The optical fiber strand consisted of a quartzglass core having a diameter of about 80 µm and a quartz glass cladding having an outer diameter of about 125 µm,the strand being coated with a synthetic resin to an outerdiameter of 0.9 mm. The optical fiber strand was introduced into ahole having a size of 2 mm in a crosshead die to passtherethrough, and 6 fiber yarns prepared in ReferenceExample were introduced individually into 6 metallic tubesconnected to the hole in the crosshead die to go along theoptical fiber strand, and led to the crosshead die. The6 fiber yarns prepared in Reference Example were providedto symmetrically surround the optical fiber strand as acenter. The thus obtained assembly was coated withpolyethylene Sumikasen G 201 MI 2 made by SumitomoChemical Company Ltd., Japan containing carbon black of0.1 PHR. The polyethylene was extruded onto the runningassembly of the optical fiber strand and the 6 fiberyarns prepared in Reference Example at 190 C to obtain apolyethylene coated optical communication cable. Thepolyethylene coating having a coating thickness of 0.2 mmhad a smooth surface, and the optical fiber strand waslocated at the center of the cable without any directcontact with the polyethylene coating. Transmissionloss of the cable was determined with a light having awavelength of 650 nm, and was found 45 dB km, the sameas that of the optical fiber strand before the preparationof the cable. The cable was subjected to an impact test byfixing metallic belts to both ends of the polyethylene coating on the cable cut to a length of 120 cm, and one ofthe metallic belts was fixed, while a weight of 100 g wassuspended at the other belt, and the weight was raisedup to the same level as that of the fixed end of the belt,and let to fall. This procedure was repeated three timesto investigate the transmission loss of the cable. It wasfound that the transmission loss was 46 dB km, and noabnormality was observed on the appearance. Polyethylene terephthalate yarns were used inplace of the fiber yarns prepared in Reference Example.The polyethylene terephthalate fibers had 1.38 deniers d ,a tenacity of 8.9 g d, an elongation of 11.2 , and amodulus of elasticity of 212 g d, and the yarns had 1,380deniers. A cable was prepared in the same manner as inExample 1, using the polyethylene terephalate yarns,and the resulting cable, cut to a length of 120 cm, wassubjected to an impact test with one hit of a weight of100 g by dropping. It was found that the optical fiberstrand was broken, and the cable was not practically used. Aramid fiber yarns were used in place of thefiber yarns prepared in Reference Example, and an opticalcommunication cable was prepared in the same manner as inExample 1, using the aramid fiber yarns. The aramidfibers had 1.47 deniers d , a tenacity of 23.2 g d, an elongation of 2.6 , a modulus of elasticity of 892 g d,and a moisture absorption of 2.9 , and the yarns had1,420 deniers. Local foaming was observed in the polyethylenecoating on the thus prepared cable. An optical communication cable was prepared witha synthetic resin based optical fiber strand and thefibers prepared in Reference Example. The optical fiberstrand was prepared by polymerizing methyl methacrylatecontaining no foreign matters and no impurities, meltspinning the polymers, and coating the fibers with afluorine resin, on the outside, and had a diameter of 1 mm.A polyethylene coated optical communication cable wasprepared in the same manner as in Example 1, and subjectedto determination of transmission loss with a light havinga wavelength of 570 nm. The transmission loss of opticalfiber strand before the preparation of the cable was273 dB km, whereas that of the cable after the polyethylenecoating was 275 dB km. The cable, cut to a lengthof 120 cm, was subjected to an impact test with a weightof 100 g in the same manner as in Example 1 by suspendingthe weight at one end of the cable, followed by drophitting. After the test, the transmission loss was found279 dB km. An optical communication cable was prepared with the synthetic resin based optical fiber strand used inExample 2 by direct coating of the optical fiber strandwith polyethylene without using the tension resistantmaterial. The transmission loss of the thus obtained cablewas determined with a light having a wavelength of 570 nm,and found more than 1,000 dB km.