# THERMAL PRINTING CASSETTE AND THERMAL PRINTER

## Claims
Kassette für Wärmedruck 1 , umfassend

## Description
The present invention relates to a thermal printing cassette and a thermal printer. More particularly, the invention relates to a thermal printer that makes various modes of label printing and label applying operations possible by means of a specifically deviced printing cassette. Since the thermal printers are small in size and light in weight, they are used as various output means in recent years, and they are also employed for printing price labels and tags in retail shops. Although desk type printers are convenient for printing a large number of price labels at a time in rear services of supermarkets, they are inconvenient for use in shop fronts because it is difficult to carry and move them in shops. Meanwhile a portable thermal label printing and applying machine is proposed cf Japanese Patent Publication No. 58 15376 1983 . This thermal printer is convenient for use in printing and applying labels in shop fronts, however, it is inconvenient for printing a large number of labels at a time. From EP A 0 000 657, there is known a labelling machine comprising a thermographic printing head and electric means for controlling and energizing said thermographic printing head. Said conventional labelling machine has a push button switch, actuation of which causes a label to be printed by said thermographic printing head with selected data which has been stored in a microprocessor by operation of a keyboard. The printed label is fed by an electrically powered drive mechanism controlled by the microprocessor to a dispensing position from which the label can be applied to an article. Spaced optically or magnetically detectable markings on the label strip are detected in the machine to provide signals to the microprocessor for obtaining registration of each label with the printing head. From JP A 59 163139, there is known a thermal printing device in the form of a cassette which comprises a mechanical linkage for connecting to a printer main body. It is, therefore, the primary object of the present invention to provide an improved thermal printing cassette and a thermal printer which are free from the above described disadvantages in the conventional art. Another object of the present invention is to provide a thermal printing cassette and a thermal printer which facilitate additional or supplemental printing of a large number of price labels in shop fronts. A further object of the present invention is to provide a thermal printing cassette and a thermal printer that is capable of printing both labels and tags. Still a further object of the present invention is to provide a thermal printing cassette and a thermal printer which are efficient in operation but simple in structure. The inventive printing device is in the form of a thermal printing cassette as defined in Claim 1. This printing cassette can be detachably mounted on the main body of a desk type or a portable type printer thereby making it possible to meet various conditions of printing and applying labels and tags. These and other objects and features of the invention will become more apparent from the following description taken in connection with the accompanying drawings in which The present invention will further be described referring to the accompanying drawings. A thermal printing cassette 1 according to the present invention is shown in Fig. 1. Formed in the main body 2 of the printing cassette 1 is a path 4 for a heat sensitive label strip 3. In this path 4 are arranged a label sensor 5, guide rollers 6, a thermal head 7, a platen 8 and a feed roller 10 that is driven by a step motor 9. The label strip 3 includes labels 12 temporarily stuck to a backing paper 11. The backing paper 11 is turned back on the platen 8 and it engages with the delivery roller 10 and then it is paid out of the main body 2. The labels 12 released from the label strip 3 are discharged on the under side of an applying roller 13. A keyboard 14 as a data input means and a display means 15 with a liquid crystal image screen or the like are installed on the the upper part of the main body 2. In the main body 2 is provided a control means 16 that is connected to the sensor 5, the thermal head 7, the step motor 9, the keyboard 14, the display means 15 and an electrical connecting section 17 that is led to the outside. The platen 8 is attached to a bottom cover 18, and when the bottom cover 18 is opened by being turned, the label strip 3 can be passed. In Fig. 2, a desk type printer main body 20 on which the thermal printing cassette 1 is mounted. When the printing cassette 1 is mounted on the desk type printer main body 20, the electrical connection 21 and mechanical linkage not shown are established. The main body 20 is provided with a supporting means 23 for a label roll 22. The control means 16 and a plug 25 that is connected to an AC power source are joined to a main body control means 24 that is installed in the main body 20. This main body control means 24 is connected via an interface 26 to a data input port 27 that is led from the outside, and also it is connected to a switch 28 and a step motor 29. The step motor 29 is connected to a pair of delivery rollers 30 and a take up roll 31 with belts 32 and 33. It is possible to provide the take up roll 31 with a different take up cassette mechanism 34 for instance, such as those disclosed in Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 59 163139 1984 , etc. As heat sensitive price labels, heat sensitive tags not shown can also be printed. When the tags are printed, a cutting means not shown for cutting tags at a prescribed pitch that have been printed and discharged outsides the cassette main body 2 and an arranging means not shown for arranging the cut tags can be provided, in place of the take up roll 31 or the take up cassette mechanism 34. Fig. 3 shows the main body 40 of a portable printer on which the above described thermal printing cassette 1 is mounted. When the printing cassette 1 is mounted on the printer main body 40, the electrical connection 41 and mechanical linkage not shown are established. The main body 40 is provided with a label supporting means 43 for supporting a label roll 42. Further the main body 40 is provided with a switch 46 and a storage battery 45 with a connector 44. If necessary, the main body 40 may be provided with a strap 47 or the like for facilitating to carry the main body 40. The functions of the printer will be described in the following. The thermal printing cassette 1 is mounted either on the desk type printer main body 20 or the portable type printer main body 40 to serve as a thermal printer. For example, when the printing cassette 1 is set to the printer main body 20 in Fig. 2, the data inputted from the keyboard 14 are stored in a memory means in the control means 16 and also they are displayed on the display means 15, and then when the switch 28 is turned on, the motor 9 is driven, thereby printing characters, figures, bar codes and the like having desired patterns by means of the thermal head 7. The printed label strip 3 is taken up, through the delivery rollers 30, by the take up roll 31 or by the take up cassette 34 as desired. If it is necessary that the labels 12 are released from the backing paper 11, the backing paper 11 is turned around the platen 8 to peel off the printed labels 12. In the case that tags are printed in place of the label strip 3, it is also possible that the tags are caused to engage with the feed roller 10 and delivered by being pinched between the delivery rollers 30. Data input from an external floppy disk or other data source besides the input from the keyboard 14 can be done by way of the data input port 27 and the interface 26. By means of the above printer, a large number of printed labels or tags can be made in rear services. In the following, the case in which the printing cassette 1 is set to the portable printer main body 40 as shown in Fig. 3 will be described. In this case, the motor 9 and the thermal head 7 are driven by the input from the keyboard 14 and the switch 46, to carry out the printing on the labels 12. Concurrently, the labels 12 are released from the backing paper 11 and they are stuck to surfaces of goods by the applying roller 13. Of course, if the backing paper 11 is not turned or bent on the platen 8, the label strip 3 in which printed labels are carried on the backing paper 11 is obtained. Incidentally, in place of the printing cassette 1, the whole body of the thermal printer as shown in Fig. 3 can be detachably mounted on the printer main body 20 that is shown in Fig. 2, in a modified printer system. As described above, according to the present invention, it is possible to make a large number of price labels or to print many labels and tags. Furthermore, additional labels can easily be made not only in rear services but also in shop fronts. Further, if printing cassettes of various types are provided, label printing and label applying work can be done simultaneously using any of desk type printers and portable type printers.