# Coloured bleaching compositions.

## Abstract
The invention provides an aqueous, coloured bleaching composition, particularly a thickened chlorine bleaching composition, in which as colouring agent a colloidally stable, coated pigment is used which has been coated with a bleach resistant polymer, e.g. polystyrene. These coated pigments are colloidally stable in the bleaching composition, in many cases more stable than uncoated pigments.

## Claims
Claims 1. An aqueous, coloured bleaching composition comprising a bleaching agent and a particulate, polymer coated colour ing agent characterised in that the colouring agent is a colloidally stable, coated pigment which has been coated with a bleach resistant polymer. 2. A composition according to claim 1, characterised in that the pigment is a metallated pigment. 3. A composition according to claim 1 or 2, characterised in that the bleach resistant polymer is prepared from a hydrophobic monomer. 4. A composition according to claim 3, characterised in that the bleach resistant polymer is polystyrene. 5. A thickened, aqueous coloured bleaching composition, comprising a colloidally stable, coated pigment which has been coated with a bleach resistant polymer according to any one of claims 14.

## Description
The present invention relates to aqueous, coloured, bleaching compositions, parflculariy alkali metal hypochlorite compositions. By bleaching compositions are meant aqueous com positions comprising an oxygen or chlorine bleaching agent, such as hydrogen peroxide, organic or inorganic persalts with or without a bleach precursor , organic or inorganic peracids, and alkali metal hypochlorites. Hereinafter the invention will be described and exempiified with particular reference to alkali metal hypochlorite compositions, but it is to be understood that the present invention is also applicable to the above other bleaching compositions.. Aqueous solutions of alkali metal hypochlorites have been known and used since ages unknown. Normally, they consist of an alkali metal hypochlorite, dissolved in water, and are used for general bleaching and disinfecting purposes. Such solutions are normally straw coloured, and in order to make them more attractive and more distnguish able from other household products, attempts have been made to impart to them a more distnguishable, aesthetically attractive colour. These hypochlorite solutions, however, form a strongly oxidizing environment, and consequently the choice of a colouring additive is very limited, restricted to only such colouring additives that are stable in these strongly oxidizing media Potassium permanganate and potassium dichromate are such colouring agents, but they impart aesthetically less attractive colours purpie and yellow . Ultramarine Blue has also been proposed, but this pigment tends to sette out from the compositions during storage During the last decade, thickened aqueous hypochlorite solutions have become known and marketed. These are aqueous solutions of an alkali metal hypochlorite which have been thickened by the inclusion therein of a mixture of two different detergent surfactants.The above problems accompanying colouring aqueous hypochlorite solutions also occur on colouring such thickened compositions, but the problem of storage stability arises even with such thickened compositions. Unless major changes are made in the thickening system, the pigment particles tend to settle out, and if major changes are made, this setting out can be reduced, but the thickening effect is significantly impaired. It has also been proposed to use a floc system in such thickened hypochlorite compositions to prevent the par ticulate colouring agent from setting out, such a ffoc system comprising, inter alia, a polymer latex. Aithough such a polymer latex may provide an improved physical stability of the particulate colouring agent in the hypochlorite compositions, it does not provide coloured products which are chemically stable over longer periods. It has now been found that the chemical and physical stability of pigments as colouring agents in aqueous alkali metal hypochlorite compositions can be improved by coating the pigments with a coating of a bleach resistant polymer. It has already been proposed in US Patent Specifications 3,666,680 Briggs and 3,655,566 Robinson to include optical brighteners in liquid hypochlorite composibons, whereby these optical brighteners are protectively enclosed in the inner portion of a two layer synthetic polymer partcle. This is achieved by dissolving the optical brightener in the oil soluble monomer, copolymerizing the monomerbrightener solution with a vinyl acid, and subsequently performing a second polymerization with the hydrophobic monomer, whereby an impermeable film is formed around the previously obtained poiymer brightener particles. Aithough this prior proposal also mentions the possibility of using dyes and pigments such as Uttramarine Blue, Monastral Fast Green GWD, etc., it is primarily directed to optical brightening agents. These polymer partcles, however, contain a hydrophilic monomer as well, and in thickened liquid hypochlorite compositions they do not give a satisfactoriiy stable colour.Furthermore, these particles have an average particle size in the range of 0.1 2 micron or 0.5 2 micron, which is not suitable to produce compositions which are physically stable without the need of a suspending agent. Recently, it has been described in GB A1 2100307 to include a hypochlorite solution stable, suspendable dye par tickle in a liquid bleaching and dyeing composition. These particles contain a dye which is resistant to attack by hypochlorous acid, which dye is incorporated in a hydropho bic latex. The dye is incorporated or n embedded in a highly hydrophobic matrix, thus shielding it from actual contact with the hypochlorite. Dyes, however, are discrete molecular units, whereas pigments are agglomerations of molecules into particles of microscopic rather than molecular 5 50 Angstroms dimensions. The dyes of the above proposal must be soluble in the organic monomeric phase. In addition, low chromophore to polymer ratios are required to get a high proportion of the finished particles to be polymer to get some effective phys ical entrapment We have now found that pigments, i.e. colourants which are insoluble in the organic and aqueous phase, which have been coated with a protective coating in a single stage process have an improved stability against attack by hypochlorite and do not cause any significant physical storage stability problems when used in an aqueous bleaching composition. In its broadest aspect, therefore, the present invention relates to coloured aqueous alkali metal hypochlorite com posibons, comprising as colouring agent a colloidally stable, coated pigment which has been coated with a bleachresistant polymer. Surprisingly, these coated pigments are colloidally at least as stable, or in many cases more stable than the uncoated pigments. In addition, often less coated pigment particles than dyed lances are required to colour the aqug ous hypochlorite solution to the same intensity. The invention will hereafter be described in more detail. The pigments which can be used in the present inventon can be of any type, as long as they are insoluble in the organic and aqueous phase and are of a relatively small average particle size e.g. 1000 A . They can include metallated and non metallated synthetic pigments as well as organic and inorganic pigments. Typical examples are given in the following list Blue Pigment C.I. NO Hue Type Name StructureBlue 1 42595 2 bright reddish blue TAM PTMA 2 44045 2 bright blue PTMA 3 42140 1 bright blue TPM PTMA 4 bright blue TPM PTMA 6 greenish blue TPM PTMA 8 42140 1 bright greenish blue PTMA 42041 1 9 42025 1 bright greenish blue TPM PTMA 12 42130 bright blue TPM PMA 13 blue PTA 14 42600 1 bright reddish blue TAM PTA 18 42770 1 bright blue TAM bright reddish navy 19 42750 1 bright blue TAM bright reddish navy 20 bright navy Organic pigment 21 69835 reddish navy Anthra quinone 23 blue Organic pigment 24 42090 1 bright greenish blue TPM 52 navy Anthra quinone 53 blue greenish blue PTMA 56 42800 greenish blue TAM 63 73015 blue Indigoid 66 73000 blue IndigoidTAM triarylmethanePTMA phosphotungstomolybdic acidTPM triphenylmethanePMA phosphomolybdic acidPTA phosphotungstic acid Green Pigment C.I. N0 Hue Type Name StructureGreen 1 42040 1 bright bluish green TAM PTMA 2 42040 1 bright green TAM PTMA 49005 1 3 41000 2 bright green TAM PTMA 42040 1 4 42000 bright green TAM 7 74260 green Phthalo cyanine 9 49415 green Naphthalene sulphonic acid 11 green Organic pigment 14 77199 green Inorganic 77346 pigment 18 green bluish green Chromium salts 47 59825 bluish green Anthra quinoneOther coloursPigment Name C.I.NO Type StructureRed 5 12490 MonoazoRed 48 1 15865 1 MonoazoRed 48 2 15865 2 MonoazoRed 48 3 15865 3 MonoazoRed 49 1 49 2 15630 Monoazo 49 3Red 52 1 15860 MonoazoRed 53 1 15585 1 MonoazoRed 57 1 15850 1 MonoazoRed 81 45160 1 Xanthene PTMARed 82 45150 1 Xanthene PTMARed 83 58000 1 AnthraquinoneRed 90 1 45380 1 Xanthene Al Other coloursPigment Name C.I. NO Type StructureViolet 3 42535 1 TAM PTMAViolet 5 1 58055 1 Anthraquinone AlViolet 19 46500 QuinacridoneYellow 14 21095 DisazoBrown 3 21010 Disazo DPTMABrown 23 DisazoBrown 25 MonoazoBlack 3 Organic PTMABlack 5 Mordant Metal Mixtures of various pigments can equally be used.Preferably, non metallated pigments are used in bleaching compositions which are susceptible to decomposition by metal ion catalysis, but metallated pigments when used according to the present invention show already a significant improvement in this respect in comparison with the uncoated pigments, without any significant physical stability problem. Thus it has been found that a copper containing haiogenated phthalocyanine, when used according to the present invention, causes substantially less decomposition of the bleaching composition than the same uncoated pigment and less settling out of the pigment particles.When metallated pigments are used, it is sometimes advantageous to use a metal sequestering agent in the composition, such as a periodate or other suitable metal chelating agent which is stable in the bleaching composition in amounts of up to about 5 by weight of the coated pigment added, to reduce the decomposition even further.The Coating The coating material to be used in the present invention should be bleach resistant. Any organic material can be used, as long as the pigment is not soluble therein. Preferably, organic materials are used in which the pigment is readily dispersible. Suitable materials are co polymers prepared from a hydrophobic monomer which is capable of undergoing emulsion polymerization. Typical examples are styrene, alkyl styrenes with one to four carbon atoms in the alkyl group, monohalogenated styrenes, acrylates, methacrylates, vinylesters, ethylene and vinylchloride. A particularly suitable material is polystyrene. The coating process is carried out in a manner known pE se, by introducing the pigment particles into an aqueous emulsion polymerization of styrene, using a common initiator such as potassium persuiphate, azobis isobutyramidine hydrochloride or 4,4 azobis 4 cyanovaleric acid . It has been found that higher concentrations of initiator than are usual for conventional emulsion poiymerization favour the coating of the pigment particles. The concentration ratio of monomer to pigment should be such that there is sufficient monomer present to just coat all the particles to avoid the formation of un coloured polymeric latices. For e.g. styrene and Pigment Green 7 C.l.NO 74260 , the most effective styrene pigment ratio was found to be 5 1. To aid the dispersal of the pigment in the polymerization reaction mixture, a suitable surfactant, such as a nonionic or an anionic synthetic detergent, can be advantageously added.The composition The coated pigments of the present invention are suitable for colouring aqueous bleaching compositions, both thickened and non thickened ones. These compositions may contain other ingredients, which are governed by the purpose for which these compositions are used, such as heavy duty liquid fabric bleaching and washing compositions, liquid fabric softening compositions, hair bleaching compositions, hygienic cleaning compositions, hardsurface cleaning compositions, etc. Thus, they preferably contain one or more detergent active compounds. Further ingredients commonly encountered in such products may be included in the compositions of the invention. As said before, the bleaching agent can comprise both oxygen and chlorine bleaching agents, as well as reducing bleaches. The coated pigments of the present invention are particularly suitable for thickened aqueous alkali hypochlorite compositions such as described in GB A 1329086, EP A1 003040t, GB A 1 548379, GB A t466560, GB A1 2003522, GB A1 2041162, GB Al 2076010 and GB Al 2046321. The amount of coated pigments used in the bleach composition varies from 0.0005 to 10 by weight, preferably from 0.001 to 1 by weight The invention will now further be illustrated by way of example. In the following examples, the bleaching composition was a current commercial thickened hypochlorite bleaching composition, Domestos, manufactured and sold by LeverBrothers Ltd. This product is a product according to GBPatent 1329086. The colour and physical stability were assessed spectrophotometrically and visuaily, respectively, and the hypochlorite decomposition gassing was measured by collecting the volume of gas evolved.Example 1 Coated Colanyl Green GGPigment Encapsulation Pigment EncapsulationStyrene 5.0 gColanyl Green GG Pigment Green 7 C.I. N 74260 2.0 g 4,4 azobis 4 cyanovaleric acid OVA 2.0 gDistilled water 1000 g A A copper phthalocyanine pigment supplied as a 50 solids aqueous paste by Hoechst U.K. .Method Colanyl Green GG was dispersed in water 970 g and heated to 82 C. The dispersion was purged with nitrogen for 15 minutes and styrene was added with vigorous stirring. 4,4 azobis 4 cyanovaleric acid was slumped in the remaining water and added to the reactants. Polymerizabon was continued for 6 hours at 82 C. The latex was steamstripped to remove any unconverted monomer and filtered through glass wool. Transmission Electron Microscopy showed that the pigment particles were encapsulated within a sheath of poly styrene, and that the average size of these particles was 900 A.Stability in Thickened Hypochlorite A sample of the above dispersion was added toDomestos at 200 ppm to give a clear, green colouration.Both colour and colloidal stability were maintained for 8 weeks at 37or. In gassing studies hypochlorite containing polymer protected pigment showed dramabcally less gassing than a sample containing Colanyl Green order 100 times less gassing .Example 2 Coated Colanyl Green GGPigment EncapsulationStyrene 5.0 gColanyl Green GG 2.0 g 2,2 azobis 2 amidino propane HC1 2.0 g 1000 gDistilled water 1000 g Method As Example 7. Stability in Thickened Hypochlorite A sample of the above dispersion was added toDomestos at 200 ppm to give a clear, green colouration.The product retained a colour and colloidal stability for greater than 60 days. Styrene Colanyl Green GG Potassium persulphate Distilled waterMethod As Example 1.Example 3 Coated Colanyi Green GGPigment Encapsulation 9.0 g 2.0 g 0.5 g 1000 gStability in Thickened Hypochlorite A sample of the above dispersion was added toDomestos at 150 ppm to give a translucent green colouration. The product remained coloured after 60 days storage at 37 C. Example 4 Coated Colanyl Green Pigment Encapsulation Styrene 17.1 g Colanyl Green 2.8 g 2,2 azobis 2 amidino propane HC1 0.5 g Sodium dodecyl sulphate 1.73 g Distilled water 250 gMethod The sodium dodecyl sulphate was dissolved in the water and the encapsulation effected as in Example 1.Stability in Thickened Hypochlorite A sample of the above dispersion was added toDomestos at 150 ppm to give a translucent green colouration. The product remained coloured after 60 days storage at 250C.Example 5 Coated Pigment Blue 1Pigment EncapsulationStyrene 5.0 gEljon Blue Toner 1.0 gArylan SNS 20 w w aqueous solution 1.72 gOVA 2.0 gDistilled water 1000 g Elion Blue Toner MGS55230 obtained from AllisJones Co. Used as Pigment Blue 1 C.I. N 42595 2 , i.e.a phosho tungstomolybdic acid PTMA salt of a triarylmethane dye derivative EMI6.1 Arylan SNS is a naphthalene sulphonic acid formalde hyde condensate obtained from Lankro.Method The Arylan SNS solution was mixed with the pigment and the encapsulation effected as in Example 1.Stability of Thickened Hypochlonte A sample of the above dispersion was added toDomestos at 550 ppm to give a clear blue colouration.Encapsulation enhanced the colour stability eightfold over that of the untreated pigment 120 min. vs 15 min. .Example 6 Coated Pigment Violet 3 Pigment EncapsulationStyrene 5.0 gEljon Violet Toner 1.0 gOVA 2.0 gArylan SNS 20 w w aq. solution 1. 43 gDistilled water 1000 g Eljon Violet Toner 55051 obtained from Allis Jones BR Co. Used as Pigment Violet 3 C.l. NO 42535 2 , i.e. aPTMA salt of mixed methylated pararosanilines.Method As for Example 5.Stability in Thickened Hypochlorite A sample of the above dispersion was added toDomestos at 500 ppm to give a clear violet colouration.Encapsulabon enhanced the colour stability threefoid over that of the untreated pigment 15 min. vs 5 min. .Example 7 Coated Pigment Blue 66Pigment EncapsulationStyrene 5.0 gOVA 2.0 gMonolite Blue A Ru 1.0 gArylan SNS 20 w w aqueous solution 1.6 gDistilled water 1000 g Monolite Blue A Ru obtained from ICI. Used asPigment Blue 66 C.I. N 73000 , i.e. EMI7.1 Method As Example 5.Stability in Thickened Hypochlorite A sample of the above dispersion was added toDomestos at 500 ppm to give a blue colourabon. Encap solution enhanced the colour stability of the pigment up to 1 hour .Example 8 Coated Pigment Green 1Pigment Encapsulation Styrene 5.0 gFanal Green 1.0 gOVA 2.0 gArylan SNS 20 w w aq. solution 1.09 gDistilled water 1000 g Fanal Green D8330 obtained from BASF. Used asPigment Green 1 C.l. N 42040 1 , i.e. an acid salt of triarylmethane dye EMI8.1 Stability in Thickened Hypochlorite A sample of the above dispersion was added toDomestos at 500 ppm to give a green colouration. Encapsulation enhanced the colour stability of the pigment up to 20 minutes . Example 9 Coated Pigment Blue 16Pigment Encapsulation 2.5 gStyrene 2.5 g 0.4 gIrgazin Blue 3GT 0.4 g 1.0 gOVA 1.0 g Arylan SNS 20 w w aq. solution 0.7 g 500 gDistilled water 500 g Irgazin Blue 3GT supplied by Ciba Geigy. Used asPigment Blue 16 C.l. N 74100 , i.e. unmetallated phthalocyanine.Method As Example 5.Stability in Thickened Hypochlorite A sample of the above dispersion was added toDomestos at 500 ppm to give a blue colouration. Colour was retained for 1 week cf. unencapsulated pigment 3 days .Example 10 Coated Pigment Brown 25Pigment Encapsulation Styrene 5.0 gHostaperm Brown 1.0 gArylan SNS 20 w w aqueous solution 1.52 gOVADistilled water 1000 g Hostaperm Brown HFR supplied by Hoechst. Used asPigment Brown 25 C.l. N 12510 S , i.e a monoazo pigmentEMI9.1 Method As Example 5.Stability in Thickened Hypochlorite A sample of the dispersion was added to Domestos at 500 ppm to give a brown colouration. Colour was retained for 5 hours at room temperature cf. 5 minutes for the uncoated pigment .Example 11 Coated Pigment Brown 23Pigment EncapsulationStyrene 5.0 gCromophtal Brown 1.0 gArylan SNS 20 w w aq. solution 0.27 gOVA 2.0 gDistilled water 1000 g Cromophtal Brown 5R supplied by Ciba Geigy. Used as Pigment Brown 23, i.e. a diazo pigment.Method As Example 5.Stability in Thickened Hypochlorite A sample of the dispersion was added to Domestos at 500 ppm to give a brown colourabon. Colour was retained for 45 minutes at room temperature.Example 12 Coated Remazol GreenPigment Encapsulation 8.6 gStyrene 8.6 g Remazol Brilliant Green Vinyl Sulphone 0.95 gSodium Dodecyl Sulphate 0.863 g 2,2 azobis amidino propane HC1 0.25 g 125 gDistilled water 125 g Remazol Brilliant Green 6B ex Hoechst was used as C.l. Reactive Blue 38, i.e. a phthalocyanine reactive dye.Method The vinyl sulphone derivative of Remazol BrilliantGreen was generated by treating the sulphatoethyl sulphone form of the dye with 2M aq. sodium hydroxide e.g. see Robinson, C. et al., Proc. R. Soc. A 31, 576, 1931 . The dye and surfactant were dissolved in the water, and concentrated hydrochloric acid was added until the pH of the aqueous phase was less than 1. The resulting precipitated pigment was coated as in Example 4. Stability in Thickened Hypochlorite A sample of the above dispersion was added toDomestos at 500 ppm to give a green colouration, which persisted for over 2 hours cf. immediate colour loss for original dye .Example 13 Coated Remastral Blue 3GPigment EncapsulationStyrene 8.6 gRemastral Blue 3G 0.95 g 2,2 azobis amidino propane HC1 0.25 gSodium dodecyl sulphate 0.863 gDistilled water 125 5 Remastrai Blue 3G is an example of a Direct dye exHoechst .Method As Example 4.Stability in Thickened Hypochlorite A sample of the above dispersion was added toDomestos at 500 ppm concentration, to give a coloured product which retained colour overnight.