# Synergistic herbicidal composition.

## Abstract
A synergistic herbicidal composition with residual activity comprises cycloate I

## Claims
WHAT IS CLADDED IS 1. A herbicidal composition canprising herbicidally effective amounts of S ethyl cyclohexylethyl thiocarbanate and 2 chloro 4 ethyl amino 6 2 cyanoisopropylanino s triazine, in a weight ratio of about 2 1 to about 4 1. 2. A composition according to Claim 1 further comprising a sub stantially non phytotoxic, antidotally effective amount of a thiocarbanate herbicide antidote. 3. A canposition according to Claim 2 in which the antidote is an anide of a haloalkanoic acid, an aromatic oxime derivative, a thiazole carboxylic acid or derivative thereof, or 1, 8 naphthalic anhydride. 4. A composition according to Claim 2 or 3 in which the antidote is N,N diallyl dichloroacetamide. 5. A ccmposition according to Claim 2 or 3 in which the antidote is an oxazolidine having the formulaEMI23.1 in which R1, R2, R3, R4 R5 and R6 are independently hydrogen, lower alkyl or phenyl, or R1 and R2 taken together form an alkylene ring together with the carbon atan of the oxazolidine ring to which they are bonded. 6. A canposition according to Claim 2 or 3 in which the antidote has the formulaEMI23.2 7. A composition according to Claim 1 further canprising an amount of an thiocarbanate herbicide extender effective to extend the soil life of the thiocarbanate. 8. A composition according to Claim 7 in which the extender is an organophosphorus compound, a carbanate, a thiocarbanate, a dithiocarbamate or an anine. 9. A composition according to Claim 7 or 8 wherein the extender is O,O diethyl O phenyl phosphorothioate. 10. A method of controlling undesirable vegetation in the presence of a crop comprising applying to the locus of said vegetation or said crop a herbicidal composition or combination comprising herbicidally effective amounts of S ethyl cyclohexylethyl thiocarbanate and 2 chloro 4 ethylamino 6 2cyanoisopropylamino s triazine in a weight ratio of about 2 1 to about 4 1. 11. Amethod according to Claim 10 further comprising applying to said locus a substantially non phytotoxic, antidotally effective amount of a thiocarbanate herbicide antidote. 12. A method according to Claim 11 in which the crop is corn. 13. A method according to any of Claims 10 12 further oompris ing applying to said locus an amount of a thiocarbamate herbicide extender effective to extend the soil life of the thiocarbanate herbicide.

## Description
SYNERGISTIC HERBICIDAL COMPOSITION Background This invention pertains to a novel synergistic herbicidal compo sition which has been found particularly effective in controlling the weed wild proso millet Panicum milaceum . Wild proso millet is a rapidly spreading grass weed which is difficult to control. It is particularly prevalent in corn and other crops and is found primarily in the upper mid western states of the UnitedStates such as Wisconsin, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska and Michigan, adjacent parts of Canada such as Manitoba and Ontario provinces, and in certain portions of Europe, including France, Italy, Austria and the U.S.S.R.This weed has a long germination period, which may be 2 3 months. Many pre emergent or pre plant incorporated herbicides utilized in controlling weeds in such crops have an effective activity of less than three months, sometimes by design to permit quicker biodegradability and less residue in the soil. Consequently, such herbicides may not provide effective con trol of this weed. Currently only two registered treatments in the United States provide adequate control of this weed in corn crops. One is a pre plant incorporated application of the herbicide Eradicanea ethyl N,N di npropyl thiocarbanate or EPTC plus the herbicidal antidote N,N diallyl 2,2dichloroacetamide followed by a post emergence directed application of the herbicide anetryne 2 ethylamino 4 isopropyl amino methylthio s triazine . The other registered treatment is a pre plant incorporated application of Eradicane followed by an early post emergence application of the combination of pendimethalin N 1 ethylpropyl 3,4 dimethyl 2,6dinitrobenzeneamine together with cyanazine 2 chloro 4 ethylamino 6 2 cyanoisopropylamino s triazine .In either of these applications, Eradicanea Extra which canprises the Eradicanea formulation plus a herbicide extender may be substituted for Eradicane . The first of these two treatments poses a serious risk of corn injury fran anetryne and requires sophisticated equipment this method therefore is not popular. The e second method is expensive and presents a substantial risk of pendimethalin injury to the corn. Furthermore, the latter method d does s not suppress the production of new weed seeds which contribute to the infestation in subsequent years. Stnnary of the Invention This invention comprises a novel herbicidal composition which provides excellent residual control of wild proso millet in crops of concern, preferably corn, which composition comprises herbicidally effective amounts of S ethyl cyclohexylethyl thiocarbamate and 2 chloro 4 ethyl amino 6 2 cyanoisopropylamino s triazine, in a weight ratio of fran about 2 1 to about 4 1, respectively. In a preferred embodiment the position also includes a substantially non phytotoxic, antidotally effective amount of a thiocarbanate herbicide antidote. The e invention also comprises a method for controlling undesirable vegetation in the presence of a crop, particularly a corn crop, by applying to the locus of the crop or undesired vegetation a herbicidal oompositicn comprising herbicidally effective amounts of the two above mentioned herbicides, in a weight ratio of fran about 2 1 to aobut 4 1, respectively, and, preferably also applying to such locus a substantially non phytotoxic, antidotally effective amount of a thiocarbamate herbicide antidote. Detailed Description and Prior Art S Ethyl cyclohexylethyl thiocarbmate is a camnercially available herbicide known by the generic nanes cycloate and hexylthiocarban. It is primarily sold for use in beets, mainly sugarbeets. This coppound will be hereinafter referred to by the nane cycloate. Cycloate has the formulaEMI2.1 The e second compound of this composition, 2 chloro 4 ethyl amino 6 2cyanoisopropylamino s triazine, is a comercial herbicide known by the generic name cyanazine and will be referred to hereinafter by that name. It is sold for use in feed grain crops, including corn and sorghum, and also in crops such as cotton and potatoes.This compound has the formulaEMI3.1 Cycloate can cause substantial injury to certain varieties or strains of corn consequently for application to corn unless the variety is one which is resistant to cycloate injury there must also be used a substantially non phytotoxic, antidotally effective anount of an antidote which is effective in protecting the corn against injury from thiocarb2r mate herbicides. The e antidote may be physically included in e.g., mixed with the cycloate cyanazine herbicidal canposition, or may be separately applied to the s e ultimate locus, for instance by seed treatment, soil drenching, in furrow application or pre plant incorporation into soil, with the cycloate cannazine mixture being separately applied at the same time or subsequently.Wwhen applied as a soil drench, in furrow or preplant incorporated, the antidote is considered to be a canponent of the overall canposition. The preferred method of application would depend on the specific antidote. Certain antidotes have been found more effective as seed treatments, while others perform best when incorporated into the soil. A wide range of chemical substances have been found to be effective as thiocarbanate herbicide antidotes, and the preferred compositions of this invention may include any one or more of such antidotes. Sane of the more important types of antidotes are anides of haloalkanoic acids, aromatic crime derivatives, thiazole carboxylic acids and derivatives, and 1,8 naphthalic anhydride. Amides of haloalkanoic acids have the generalized formulaEMI3.2 in which R is a mono or poly haloalkyl group. The halogens may be variously chloro, brans or iodo chloro is the preferred halogen, and the pre ferred group for R in these compounds in general is dichloranethyl,C12CH , i.e., the compounds are anides of dichloroacetic acid. In such compounds the nitrogen is further substituted by at least one other func tional group or forms a portion of a heterocyclic ring, as will be described below. Antidotes of this type are described in a number of publication such as U.S. Patents 4,021,224 4,256,481 and 4,294,764, European PatentAplication, Publication No. 104,495, and British Patent 1,521,540. U.S.Patent 4,021,224 contains a broad disclosure of such types of compounds and indicates a great many possibilities for monc or di substitution on the nitrogen atan. One type of antidote disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,021,224 isN,N diallyl dichloroacetanide,EMI4.1 which is generally known comercially as R 25788 and is included as an antidote in several commercial products containing thiocarbanate herbicides. Another class of haloalkanoic acid anides is that in which the nitrogen atan in the foregoing formula is contained in a heterocyclic ring, for instance an oxazolidine or thiazolidine ring. Preferably R is dichloreomethyl, and the preferred canpounds have the general formulaEMI4.2 In this formula, X is oxygen or sulfur preferably oxygen , and R1 Rs are variously independently hydrogen, lower alkyl or phenyl, or R1 and R2 taken together form an alkylene group, preferably a butylene, pentylene a hexylene group, optionally substituted by one or two methyl groups.When X is sulfur, R2 preferably is a group of the general formula CH2 nCOOZ in which Z is an alkyl preferably lower alkyl , cycloalkyl, cyclohexylmethyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, benzyl, substituted benzyl, allyl or propargyl group, and n is 0 or 1. Compounds of these types are disclosed for instance in U.S. Patents 4,021,224 and 4,256,481 and in European PatentApplication Publication No. 104,495 thiazolidines . Representative compounds of this type include where not specified, the substituent is hydrogen Ozazolidines X oxygen 2,2 dimethyl N dichioroacetyl oxazolidine R1 and R2 methyl 2,2,5 trimethyl N dichloroacetyl oxazolidine R1, R2 and R5 methyl 2,2 dimethyl 5 n propyl N dichloroacetyl oxazolidine R1, R2 methyl, R5 n propyl 2, 2 dimethyl 5 phenyl N dichloroacetyl oxazolidine R1, R2 methyl, R5 phenyl 2,2 spirocyclohexyl N dichloroacetyl oxazolidine . R1 plus R2 taken together pentamethylene .Thiazolidine X sulfur 2 methyl, 2 methylcarboxymethyl N dichloroacetyl thiazolidine R1 methyl, R2 CH2COOCH3 Other compounds in which R1 and R2 taken together are alkylene are disclosed for instance in British Patents 1,512,540 and 2,023,582 andHungarian Patent 181,621. A third type of haloalkanoic acid anide is disclosed generally in U.S. Patent 4,294,764 and has the general formulaEMI5.1 in which R7 may be one of a number of alkyl, alkenyl or alkynyl moieties R8, Rg, R10 and R11 are independently hydrogen or methyl and n is 0 or 1.A representative compound of this type is the compound N 1,3 diosolan 2 yl methyl N 2 propenyl 2,2 dichloroacetamide, which has the formula EMI6.1 This corresponds to the previous formula in which R7 is 2 propenyl, R8 and Rg are both hydrogen and n is 0. Oxime derivatives which are suitable for use as antidotes with thiocarbanate herbicides are disclosed, for instance in U.S. Patents 4,070,389 and 4,269,775 and have the general formulaEMI6.2 in which R12 is cyano or a number of other moieties as indicated in U.S.Patent 4,269,775. Representative compounds of this type are those in which R12 is cyano and in which R12 is 1,3 dioxola 2 yl. The latter compound has the chemical name O 2 1,3 dioxolanyl methyl alpha cyano benzaldoxime. Thiazole carboxylic acids and derivatives suitable for use as thiocarbanate antidotes are disclosed generally in U.S. Patent 4,199,506 and have the general formulaEMI6.3 in which R13 is alkyl, haloalkyl or trialkoxymethyl R14 is variously hydrogen, agriculturally acceptable cations or various hydrocarbamyl or substitued hydrocarbamyl moieties and R15 is chloro, bromo, iodo, lower alkoxy or substituted or unsubstituted phenoxy. A representative member of this class is the compound benzyl 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl 5 thiazole carboxylate R13 trifluoromethyl R14 benzyl, R15 chloro m 1 . The amount of a given antidote to be utilized in combination with the cycloate cyanazine mixture in the composition of this invention and the mner of its utilization will vary according to the particular antidote to be employed, the crop which is to be protected, the mount or rate of herbicide to be applied, and the soil and climatic oooditions of the agricultural envirorment in which the mixture is to be applied.The selection of a specific antidote for use in the cycloate cyanazine canpo sition, the manner in which it is to be applied e.g., tank mix, in furrow application, seed treatment, etc. , the determination of activity which is nonphytoxic but antidotally effective, and the amount necessary to pro vide this result, can be readily performed utilizing the test procedures in the cited patents such as U.S. Patent 4,021,224, in accordance with common practice in the art. In sane cases it may be advantageous to also include in the com position a substance which can provide extension in time of the activity of thiocarbanate herbicides, in an amount effective to extend this activity. Such substances are generally referred to as thiocarbanate herbicide extenders. A number of substances have been found which possess these properties. Exatiples of such substances are certain types of organophos chorus compounds, carbanates, and anines, which are disclosed respectively in European Patent Applications publication Nos. 10178, 38945, and 78146 and a nunber of carbanates, thiocarbanates and dithiocarbanates as disclosed in U.S.Patent Application Serial No. 652,710, filed September 19, 1984 of Peed A. Gray et al., assigned to the assignee hereof. These patent applications disclose tests for determining whether a substance has such extending activity, and determining what amount of substance is required in a given case to provide this activity. As with the antidotes, such thiocarbanate herbicide extenders may be physically incorporated into the herbicidal composition or applied separately to the sane ultimate locus. Preferred extenders in such compositions are the compound O,O di ethyl O phenyl phosphorothicate, disclosed for such use in European PatentApplication, Publication No. 10178 and N,N bis 3 chloroallyl S ethyl thiocarbanate, disclosed in the abovementioned U.S. Patent Application 652,710. The herbicidal compositions according to this invention contain the herbicides cycloate and cyanazine in a weight ratio, respectively, of fran about 2 1 to about 4 1 exclusive of auxiliary ingredients . me amount of antidote in the composition if included will depend on the particular antidote selected for use, and the rate of application of the cycloate, as well as the crop and climatic conditions to be encountered, and may range fran as low as about 0.5 to as high as about 33 percent by weight with respect to cycloate the corresponding weight ratios of cyclc ate antidote are fran about 128 1 to about 3 1 .If an extender far thlio carbanate herbicides is also included in the camposition, the amount Of this substance will similarly depend on the extender, crop and conditions, but may generally range fran as low as about 2.5 to as high as about 50 percent by weight with respect to cycloate. Herbicidal Evaluation Herbicidal evaluations of mixtures of cycloate and cyanazine with various antidotes were conducted in both the greenhouse and in the field.A. Greenhouse Evaluation Herbicide Combination This example demonstrates the synergistic response of combina tions of cycloate and cyanazine, in long term or residual control of wild proso millet and two other grassy weeds. In these tests, three substances were used cycloate, cyans zine, and the thiocarbanate herbicidal antidote 2,2,5 trimethyl N di chioroacetyl oxazolidine. The cycloate was used in the form of an emulsifiable concentrate containing 6 pounds cycloate per gallon and appropriate additives. The e cyanazine was used in the form of a wettable powder afr taining 80 by weight cyanazine, plus diluents and carriers. The e antidote was used in the form of an emulsifiable concentrate containing 2 pounds antidote per gallon. Test solutions of the herbicides used in these evaluations were prepered by mixing and addition of appropriate amounts of water to form sprayable solutions or emulsions. Test flats or pans were filled with virgin sandy loam soil. The treatments to be evaluated were sprayed onto the flats at a rate of 25 gallons acre 234 liters hectare with test compounds being applied at the following rates cycloate 4 lb A 4.48 kg ha cyanazine 1 lIVA 1.12 kg ha oxazolidine antidote 0.17 lb A 0.19 kg ha . After the soil had been sprayed, it was placed in a rotary mixer and mixed or incorporated for a minimun of 3 minutes. After incorporation the soil was placed in the original pans and seeds of three grassy weed species were planted. The weeds were wild proso millet Panicun miliaceun , shattercane Sorghun bicolor and giant foxtail Setaria faberi . Only sane of the flats containing treated soil were seeded at this time. Other flats containing the treated soil were similarly seeded at intervals of 3, 6 and 9 weeks after spraying of the herbicides, in order to test for residual control by the test compounds. After seeding, the test flats were placed in a greenhouse at a temperature of apprcxi mately 70 800F 21 27 C and watered by sprinkling.At dates approximately 3 weeks after seeding, the degree of injury or control of the weeds was determined by visual canparison of untreated check flats seeded at the sane time. The injury rating, on a scale of 0 to 100 , was recorded for each species as percent control, with 0 representing no injury and 100 representing canplete kill. The results of these tests are contained in the following Table I. Under the heading 0 are given the ratings for the individual herbicides or mixtures as observed.Under the heading E are provided the expected results for combinations of the two herbicides, based on the response for each herbicide alone, derived fran this data using Limpel s formula, namely E X Y 700 where X the observed percent injury when one of the herbicides is used alone and Y the observed percent injury when the other herbicide is used alone. mis formula is contained in the article Weed Control by Dimethyichloro terephthalate Alone and in Certain Combinations, Limpel et al., Proc.NEWCC., Vol. 16, pp. 48 53 1962 . When the observed result exceeds the result which would have been expected using this formula, synergism is demonstrated. The e ratings are indicated as being taken at times T1T4. These correspond to dating and evaluation days over the period of the tests as follows T1 seeded on day 0, rated an day 20 T2 seeded on day 21, rated on day 41 T3 seeded on day 43, rated otl day 63 T4 seeded on day 64, rated on day 84 TPBIE IApplication Rates Cycloate 4 Ib acre Oxazolidine antidote 0.17 Ib acre cyanazine 1 Ib acre Wild Proso Millet Control Herbicide O E O E O E O E cycloate antidote 100 97 30 27 cyanazine 73 63 30 37 cycloate cyanazine 99 100 100 99 88 51 67 54 antidote Shattercane Control T1 T2 T3 T4 Herbicide O E O E O E O E cycloate antidote 63 60 3 0 cyanazine 83 92 67 40 cycloate cyanazine 94 94 99 97 93 68 93 40 antidote Giant Foxtail Control Herbicide T T WE 0 E 0 E cycloate antidote 100 93 94 77 cyanazine 100 100 88 77 cycloate cyanazine 100 100 100 100 99 96 100 95 antidote Synergism demonstrated. As shown by the data in this table, cyanazine and cycloate alone, as well as the mixture of the two, maintained the initial control of the weeds through the first six weeks after application. However, 9 weeks after initial incorporation into the soil, the activity of the individual herbicides against shattercane and wild proso millet began to fall off markedly. The activity of the combination was expected to similarly decline. However, in fact, the ccmbination of cycloate plus cyanazine at the indicated ratios still provided surprisingly quite good con trol of all three weeds.Greenhouse Evaluations With Various Herbicidal Antidotes Mixtures of cycloate and cyanazine with a nunber of different thiocarbanate herbicide antidotes were prepared and evaluated. As before, simultaneous evaluations were conducted using cycloate and cyanazine alone for comparison. The test procedure was as follows. a Pre plant Incorporation of Herbicides With Antidotes Test flats were filled with moist, virgin sandy loam soil, and 17 17 17 fertilizer was added. The flats were then sprayed on a linear spray table at a volune of 25 gallons acre 234 lit ha with the test herbicides, at application rates as given below. Immediately after spraying, the soil fran all the flats was placed in a rotary mixer and mixed for at least three minutes. After incorporation the soil was placed in storage containers. The e next day, some of the soil was placed in test flats, which were seeded with two varieties of corn and four grassy weeds.The e corn varieties utilized were DeKalb XL 43a and XL 67. The weeds wereFall panicun Panicun dichotaniflorum first and third plantings , velvetleaf Abutilon theotrasti second planting cnly , shattercane, giant foxtail and wild proso millet. At intervals of 3, 6, and 9 weeks after spraying, additional soil samplers were raced in flats and seeded with seeds of the sane species as previously. After seeding, the flats were placed in a greenhouse at a temperature of 70 80 F 21 270C and watered by sprinkling. Between plantings, the unused soil was kept in the greenhouse at temperatures of 70 800F 21 270C . Each flat was checked for degree of injury or control of weeds approximately 3 weeks after seeding, by comparing it with untreated check flats of the sane age. The injury rating, on a scale of 0 to 100 , was recorded for each species as percent control, with 0 representing no injury and 100 representing canplete control. The results of these tests are given in Table II below. Under the heeding 0 are given the ratings for the compounds applied as observed. Under the heading E are provided the expected results for ccmbinations of the two herbicides, using Limpel s formula. The herbicides were prepared in solution form and applied as follows. Cycloate was utilized in the form of an emulsifiable concentrate containing approximately 75.3 weight percent cycloate, and was mixed with water to produce a sprayable emulsion. Cyanazine was employed in the form of a wettable powder oontaining approximately 80 by weight of the herbicide, and was mixed with water to form a sprayable solution. Antidotes were employed as technical grade material, with appropriate amounts of material being added to provide application rates as given below. The test compounds were sprayed on the flats at the following application rates cycloate 4 lb A 4.48 kg ha cyanazine 1 lb A 1.12 Wha antidotes 0.33 lb A 0.37 kg ha b Pre plant Incorportion and Seed Treatment With Antidotes In a second series of tests, the antidotes were incorporated by seed treatment in an anount of 0.5 by weight of the antidote based ixne weight of the seed. In such a treatment, 10 g of the corn seed was mixed with 50 mg of the specified antidote and 1 or 2 drops of methanol were added to assist the antidote in adhering to the seeds. The herbicides were applied in the sane manner and at the sane application rates as before. Six different antidotes were utilized in these tests, and are indicated in Table II by the following reference numbers Antidotes Compound Name NumberN,N diallyl dichloroacetamide R 25788 1 2,2,5 trimethyl N dichloroacetyl oxazolidine 2 2, 2 spirocyclohexyl N d ichloroacetyl cxazolidine 3N 1,3 dioxolan 2 ylmethyl N 2 propenyl 2,2 dichloroacetamide 4 G 2 1,3 dioxolanyl methyl alpha cyanobenzaldoKime 5 1,8 naphthalic anhydride 6 Table II contains the results of the four plantings and evaluations which occurred as follows first planting seeded on day 1, evaluated on day 20 second planting seeded on day 22, evaluated on day 41 third planting seeded on day 42, evaluated on day 63 fourth planting seeded on day 64, evaluated on day 84 TABLE IIFirst Planting Second Planting Third Planting Fourth Planting Control Control Control ControlOther Wild Other Wild Other Wild OtherWild Proso weeds Proso weeds Proso weeds Proso weedsAntidote Millet avg. Millet avg. Millet avg. Millet avg. Herbicide Number O E O E O E O E O E O E O E O E cycloate 100 100 80 97 45 22 10 10 cyanazine 55 90 40 70 35 47 0 10 cycloate cyanazine 99 100 100 100 94 88 100 100 75 64 90 59 45 10 20 19 cycloate cyanazine 1 100 100 100 100 97 88 99 100 75 64 89 59 35 10 30 10 30 19 cycloate cyanazine 2 100 100 95 100 85 88 82 100 80 64 80 59 30 10 15 19 cycloate cyanazine 3 99 100 100 100 97 88 100 100 80 64 89 59 30 10 20 19 cycloate cyanazine 4 100 100 97 100 94 88 88 100 65 64 85 59 40 10 20 19 cycloate cyanazine 5 99 100 98 100 92 88 92 100 65 64 75 59 40 10 25 19 cycloate cyanazine 6 100 100 99 100 94 88 99 100 75 64 85 59 35 10 20 19Seed Treatment with Antidote cycloate cyanazine 1 100 100 98 100 98 88 99 100 75 64 93 59 35 10 25 19 cycloate cyanazine 2 100 100 94 100 85 88 87 100 70 64 88 59 30 10 23 19 cycloate cyanazine 3 100 100 99 100 93 88 99 100 80 64 93 59 40 10 30 19 cycloate cyanazine 4 100 100 96 100 88 88 95 100 80 64 91 59 40 10 23 19 cycloate cyanazine 5 98 100 98 100 90 88 99 100 75 64 92 59 35 10 20 19 cycloate cyanazine 6 99 100 99 93 100 93 88 99 100 75 64 88 59 30 10 17 19 Average of shattercane and giant foxatil only panicum did not germinate sufficiently. As can be seen fran the data in Table II, at the end of 6 weeks second planting evaluation the mixture of cycloate cyanazine was demonstrating activity against wild proso millet as expected or somewhat better than expected. At the end of 9 weeks fran application third planting evaluation unexpected activity was clearly demonstrated not only in the case of wild proso millet, but also for the overall control of other weeds in this test, particularly shattercane. In the fourth planting evaluation 12 weeks after application , weed control had decreased quite sharply in general, but oombinations of cycloate with cyanazine were still showing far better activity than expected against the proso millet.A fifth planting and evaluation was carried out, but there was virtually no weed control by any test composition. As part of this series of tests, evaluation was also made of the injury, if any, to the corn varieties. The results, far the first three plantings, are shown in Table III below. No injury was observed for any test compositions in the fourth or fifth plantings. TAELE III Injurs to Corn Varieties First Planting Second Planting Third Planting Herbicide Number XL 43a XL 67 XL 43a XL 67 XL 43a XL 67 cycloate 50 90 20 98 0 15 cyanazine 0 0 0 5 0 0 cycloate cyanazine 55 90 0 70 0 5 cycloate cyanazine 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 cycloate cyanazine 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 cycloate cyanazine 3 0 50 0 50 0 0 cycloate cyanazine 4 0 40 0 50 0 0 cycloate cyanazine 5 0 55 0 35 0 0 cycloate cyanazine 6 70 85 5 35 0 0Seed Treatment with Antidote cycloate cyanazine 1 0 5 0 0 0 5 cycloate cyanazine 2 0 0 0 0 0 15 cycloate cyanazine 3 0 20 0 0 0 25 cycloate cyanazine 4 0 5 0 0 0 5 cycloate cyanazine 5 5 0 0 0 0 5 cycloate cyanazine 6 0 30 5 5 0 0 The information in Table III demonstrates that while cycloate itself, and cycloate in mixtures with cyanazine, can cause injury to corn for at least three weeks and up to six weeks for a sensitive variety such as XL 67 typical thiocarbanate antidotes function effectively, when props erly applied, to protect corn fran such injury. The e activity pattern of antidotes 3 6 in protecting corn frcm thiocarbanate herbicidal injury is consistent with their expected performance they are generally employed as seed treatments rather than by pre plant incorporation into soil. b Pre Plant Incorporation use of herbicide extender The test procedure was as in series a . Weeds employed were shattercane, giant foxtail, velvetleaf and wild proso millet. Cyanazine was used in the form of a wettable powder containing approximately 80 by weight cyanazine. Cycloate was used primarily in the form of an emulsifiable concentrate oontaining approximately 75.3 weight percent cycloate and also in two different microncapsulated oompositions compositions E, H and I which included oil and compositions J and K which did not. Antidote 1 was employed in this series of tests. When used with a cycloate emulsifiable concentrate it was employed as in series a it was physically incorporated into the microencapsulated formulations. The thiocarbamate herbicide extender was O,O diethyl O phenyl phosphorothioate. The e test compounds were sprayed on the flats at the following application rates cycloate 4 Ib acre 4.48 kg ha cyanazine 1 Ib acre 1.12 kg ha and 2 Ib acre 2.24 kg ha antidote 0.33 lb acre 0.37 kggha extender 1 Ib acre 1.12 kg ha The results of these tests are included in Table IV. Plantings and evaluations were as follows. First planting seeded on day 1, evaluated on day 21 Second planting seeded on day 22, evaluated on day 42t Third planting seeded on day 42 evaluated on day 62 Fourth planting seeded on day 63 evaluated on date 85 Fifth planting seeded on day 86 evaluated on day 115. TABLE IVFirst Planting Second Planting Third Planting Control Control ControlOther Wild Other Wild OtherWild Proso weeds Proso weeds Proso weedsAntidote Millet avg. Millet avg. Millet avg. Test Composition O E O E O E O E O E O EA cycloate 97 99 95 99 40 83 B cyanazine 53 93 43 86 17 69C cyanazine 83 99 63 92 27 83D cycloate cyanazine antidote 1 100 99 100 100 97 97 100 100 67 50 98 95E cycloate cyanazine antidote 1 100 99 100 100 97 98 99 100 98 56 98 97F cycloate extender antidote 1 98 98 94 98 73 93G cycloate cyanazine extender 100 100 100 100 96 97 100 100 77 78 100 98 antidote 1H cycloate antidote 1 98 97 94 99 63 89I cycloate cyanazine antidote 1 99 99 100 100 99 97 100 100 77 74 96 97J cycloate antidote 1 99 99 97 99 70 84K cycloate antidote 1 99 100 100 100 99 99 100 100 70 82 98 96 cyanazine application rate 2lb acre microencapsulated, plus oil microencapsulated, no oil Table V below shows injury if any to the two varieties of corn included in the tests, in the first through third plantings. In the fourth and fifth plantings, no injury on corn was observed except that the extender composition G caused approximately 20 injury to the XL 67 variety. This is consistent with the general extension of herbicidal activity of cycloate. The test compositions are as in Table IV above. TABLE V Injury Test First Planting Second Planting Third Planting Canposition XL 43a XL 67 XL 43a XL 67 XL 43a XL 67 A 77 90 13 80 0 67 B 10 10 0 0 0 0 C 17 17 22 7 3 0 D 3 63 0 43 0 7 E 13 73 0 40 0 27 F 0 33 0 27 0 10 G 3 17 0 43 0 20 H 0 67 0 17 0 3 I 3 33 0 43 0 23 J 0 70 0 27 0 7 K 3 73 0 43 0 10 When the information in Table IV is compared with that in TableII, the unexpected continued residual activity of mixtures of cycloate and cyanazine after 6 9 weeks third planting is clearly demonstrated.As seen fran table IV, the inclusion of a thiocarbanate herbicidal extender produces an overall extension of the cycloate activity so that the unexpected residual activity is first demonstrated three weeks later, in the fourth planting.Field Evaluations Mixtures of cycloate and cyanazine were evaluated for residual control of wild proso millet in three fields in Wisconsin. Field No. 1 had a loany soil, and a moderate but uniform stand of wild proso millet, Field Nos. 2 and 3 had fine sandy loam soil and a heavy uniform infest tion of wild proso millet. The herbicides in the test were incorporated by pre plant incorporation with a sprayer followed by discing. Three replications were performed with each herbicidal treatment. At the end of 12 weeks, the tests were evaluated for control of wild proso millet, in terms of percent control fran 0 to 100 by comparison by with an untreated check plot. The other herbicides tested were cycloate, cycloate with antidote No. 2 of Table II, and cycloate with said antidote and cyanazine. The cycloate was variously utilized in two different forms an emulsifiable concentrate containing 6 pounds cycloate per gallon, and a microenr capsulated form containing 4 pounds cycloate per gallon. The antidote was used in the form of an emulsifiable concentrate containing 2 pounds antidote per gallon. The cyanazine was used in the form of a wettable powder containing 80 by weight cyanazine. The various compositions were prepared by standard tank mixing techniques using the above mentioned materials. The cycloate was applied at rates of 4 and 6 pounds per acre the cyanazine at a rate of 2 Ib A the antidote at a rate of 0.7 Ib A. The results of these tests are shown in the following Table Vl. TABLE VI FIELD EVALUATIONS Herbicide Application Wild Proso Millet Control Test No. Herbicide Rate lb A Field num 1 Field 2 Field 3 1 cycloate 4 90 78 67 2 cycloate 4 77 83 75 antidote num 2 3 cycloate 4 72 78 63 antidote num 2 4 cycloate 4 90 85 72 antidote 2 cyanazine 2 5 cycloate 6 93 85 82 6 cycloate 6 90 92 78 antidote num 2 7 cycloate 6 88 90 83 antidote num 2 8 cycloate 6 90 93 92 antidote num 2 cyanazine 2 in microencapsulated form These evaluations demonstrate the long term residual control using mixtures of cycloate and cyanazine at weight ratios based on application rates of 2 1 and 3 1. Cycloate is generally sold in one of two physical forms an emulsifiable concentrate and a granular form. Cyanazine is generally marketed in the form of a wettable powder, and has also been commercially available as granules, an emulsifiable concentrate, or a suspension concentrate. Cycloate itself is a liquid cyanazine a solid. In any event, compositions containing the two herbicides, together with an antidote and other optional additives such as an extender may be prepared in a nunber of conventional ways. The e two herbicides, in technical grade, may be mixed and forme lated for instance as a flowable composition or as a granule containing the mixture, together with an appropriate antidote and extender, if desirable. Alternatively, the two herbicides may be obtained in their carr mercially available forms, and canbined in a tank mix for application to a field. For instance, cycloate in the form of an emulsifiable concentrate may be mixed with water and cyanazine in the form of a wettable powder, to form a sprayable suspension or solution, which may be further diluted with water if desired. The antidote, when used, may be included in said suspension or solution, or may be separately applied, as by seed treatment. The amounts of formulated cycloate and cyanazine, and water, are selected so as to provide solutions containing the desired weight ratio of cycloate to cyanazine, and for application to the field at the desired rate. Specific examples of canpositions containing the two herbicides, with antidotes, are contained in the foregoing evaluation descriptions.