# Hygienic attachments for therapy lasers.

## Abstract
This invention consists of a range of easily attachable, dis posable and sterilisable caps which can be fitted onto the out put end of laser therapy heads to prevent the spread of trans missible diseases during laser therapy treatments of humans and animals over a range of laser wavelengths at power levels across the electro magnetic spectrum whilst maintaining laser beam intensities of less than one milliwatt per circular area of 7 mm diameter.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A sterilizable, disposable cap which in use, fits over the output end of a laser therapy system head, its orientation being determined by protrusions in the cap sliding into grooves in the head, the cap being firmly attachable to the head when a rib on the inside surface of the cap slips into a mathcing groove in the head, the cap having a hollow tube positioned along its inner, central axis and sealed onto the tip of the cap so as to provide a laser output beam passage through the hollow tube and out of the cap, the hollow tube aiding in locating the cap onto the head and reducing the likelihood of it being contaminated. 2. A system comprising a cap according to claim 1 wherein the disposable cap had embedded therein two electrodes which make contact with respective leads embedded in the laser unit head as the cap is fitted on the head so that the localised skin resistance between the two probe tips can be determined allowing for the laser beam output to be switched on to stimulate acupuncture points. 3. A system comprising a cap according to claim 5 wherein the disposable cap has a hollow stem extension through which the laser ouput beam propagates, capped by a solid block which is transparent ts laser ght and sWap in such a manner that the said propogatlng laser beam is totally internally reflected through 93 degrees to exit from the cap via a convex surface which causes the emerging laser beam to focus into a fine spot in front of the convex surface, from which it diverges into a wide, conical bear of decreasing intensity per unit area. 4. A system according to claim 3 where the hollow stem extension tube is capped by a line maker consisting of a transparent solid piece whose input surface is concave and whose output surface is convexm the emerging laser beam being of rectangular or square cross section providing for larger area illumination of the patient s body. 5. A system according to claim 3 wherein the hollow stem is capped by a transparent solid whose end has a conical cavity to provide the transmitted laser beam with total internal reflection into a 90 degree plane spread through 360 degree for therapeutic treatments of internal organs in human and animal bodies. 6. A system according to claims 4 and 5 where the laser beam intensity per unit area is less than 1 milliwatt per circular area of 7mm diameter but whose total laser beam output power exceeds one milliwatt for laser wavelengths across the electromagnetic spectrum. 7. A sterilizable, disposable cap which in use, fits over the output end of a laser therapy system head, its orientaicn being determined by prcçris Ions in the cap sliding along guies in tre head, the cap being firmly attachable to the head by means thereon engageable with means in the head, the cap having a hollow tube positioned along its inner, central axis and sealed onto the tip of the cap so as to provide a laser output beam passage through the hollow tube and out of the cap, the hollow tube aiding in locating the cap onto the head and reducing the likelihood of it being contamined.

## Description
This invention relates to a system for ensuring hygienic contact between a laser therapy unit, the therapist administrating the laser beam treatment and the patient receiving said treatment, comprising of detachable end caps which can be securely clipped onto the laser beam output tip of a therapy laser so as to prevent said laser output tip itself coming into contact with patients bodies. If transmissible diseases such as acquired immune deficiency syndrome AIDS are picked up by said disposable caps, then in the case where such caps are of stainless steel construction, for example, they can be sterilised prior to further use, or to provide complete protection for both therapists and subsequent patients the caps can be of plastic construction and simply disposed of after being used on a patient.SUMMARY OF THE PRIOR ART Prior art laser therapy units are of two kinds, those with direct beam outputs and those whose outputs are delivered to the patient via a flexible optical fibre bundle. A fundamental problem with prior art laser therapy units is the fact that the output heads which are held by the therapists and come int, frequent contact with the patients, paticularly during internal body therapy, are difficult to sterilise. In the case of the direct beam laser therapy unit head, the whole head would have to be sealed to prevent the high voltage laser tube coming into contact with water. Similarly, the immersion of a fibre optical cable head would also require total head sealing to ensure full sterilizing action.Such prior art laser therapy units are low cost devices operating under CLASS II international safety regulation with maximum output of one milliwatt continuous beam power. To provide a sealed, sterilizable head on such low cost units would cost more than the unit itself and would be uneconomical.Additionally it would be difficult to provide 1 protection against transmissible diseases because such sealed laser therapy unit heads could not be made demountable in general use. The present invention overcomes the defects of prior art laser therapy units by being fully sterilizable, low cost and easily attached in a firm manner to the head of said laser therapy units such that it will not become detached during the treatment period but can easily be removed after such a treatment period.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The advent of the laser in 196 heralded a new era in the ancient art of acupunture treatment, which had previously been solely based on the use of needles to stimulate acupuncture points on human and animal bodies. In 1966, one of us John Leonard Hughes whilst working at the Defence Research Establishment in SouthAustralia focused a three watts output of a blue green argon ion laser onto his hand and experienced a needle like sensation. Others used mu h lower powered lasers, in particular helium neon lasers, emitting only a few milli watts in the red, and claimed that acupuncture points could be stimulated at such low power levels without needle like sensations. Using acupuncture needles, the therapist inserts them into the patients through points reputed to affect the body in beneficial ways. When such needles are inserted into the patient s body, they can be mechanically vibrated to increaase the claimed beneficial effects. Similarly, wih laser beam stimulation of acupuncture points, the light beam can be modulated in intensity with claimed beneficial effects by laser therapists worldwide.As with acupuncture needles, treat ents with laser beaus e incude pain relief, with the added advantage of deep wound treatments. Howe, the unique advantage laser beam therapy over acupuncture needle therapy is the fact that it is impossible to contaminate the laser beam as is the case with acupuncture needles.The purpose of this invention is to ensure that the head of the laser therapy unit from which said laser beam emerges is also fully sterilized as it comes into contact with either the patients or therapists bodies.OBJECTS OF THE INVENTION It is an object of this invention to prevent the spread of transmissible diseases during laser therapy treatments of humans and animals. Another object of the invention is to provide an easily attachable, disposable cap for the output beam heads of therapy lasers. A further object of the invention is to provide a hygienic, disposable cap for laser therapy systems which is economical. Yet a further object of the invention is to provide a hygienic, disposable cap for therapy lasers which allows the therapist to treat areas of human and animal bodies which are difficult to access, such as the mouth, ear and near the eyes which are sensitive to laser beam intensities. Another object of the invention is to convert a spot beam into a laser beam line which can then be spread into a rectangular or square distribution. A further object of the invention is to incr ase the laser beam output power from laser therapy units such that their intensity remains within the international Class II limits of one milliwatt per circular area of 7 millimetres diameter which is equivalent to the estimated area of a fully dilated pupil of the human eye. Yet a further object of the invention is to provide a sterilizedw disposable attachment for therapy laser systems which allow for acupuncture point location via both galvanic and localised skin resistance measurements utilizing one and two electrode assemblies in the said disposable caps respectively.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION A better understanding of the invention may be obtained from the following consideration taken in conjunction with the figures which are not meant to limit the scope of the invention in any way. Figure 1 shows the cross section of a moulded a half section of a laser therapy syste neu wit a compact helium neon laser beam generatIng tuDe mounted onto two cradles moulded into the said section. The position of the laser output beam is indicated as it passes through the tip of the moulded plastic handpiece formed by fitting together and gluing two of the moulded sections shown inFigure 1. Figure 2 shows the cross section of the moulded plastic head at 90 deg to that shown inFigure 1. Figure 3 shows the form of the invention which provides a compact, sterilizable cap without affecting the laser beam propagation direction. Figure 4 shows the form of the invention shown inFigure 3 but with the skin resistance measurement electrodes installed. Figure 5 shows the output end portion of the system shown in Figure 2 with the kin resistance electrodes installed. Figure 6 shows the configuration of the invention with a beam reflector focusing assembly attached on a hollow extended stem. Figure 7 shows the configuration of figure 3 with a line forming extension which converts the cylindrically symmetrical laser output beam into a line beam of rectangular or square cross section whose intensity per unit area satisfies International Class II safety standards but whose total power may exceed said standard in which case it is categorised International Class II IA, the category of International Class IIIA corresponding corresponding to an expanded beam Class II output.Figure 8 shows a form of the invention for the 360 deg illumination of internal organs.DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION In Figure 1, numeral 1 indicates a moulded plastic half section of a direct beam laser they unit head, numeral 2 indicates a laser tube, numeral 3 the ballast resistors and numeral 4 the multicore, shielded electrical cable which connects said head assembly to the laser power supply at control unit The laser output bean is indicated by numeral 5 as it propagates through the channel indicated by numeral 6 which is completed when the second half of the mould is attached to said bottom half 1. Numeral 7 indicates the locating groove for correctly orientating the invention onto the laser therapy head whilst the groove indicated by numeral 8 is the one used to firmly attach said invention onto said head.Numeral 9 indicates a groove to locate either an optically polished window or an optically polished laser beam attenuator whi h also acts as a stop for glass containers filled with various liquids hcan be inserted in channel 6 and through which laser beam 5 can propagate. Numeral 18 indicates the recess for the safety switch necessary on Class II therapy lasers to block beam 5 as required. Numera 11 indicates the moulded cradle which accepts the O ring mounting around the tube 2. In Figure 2, numeral 12 indicates the grooves in body 1 into which are positioned the springed conductors to complete the electrical circuits for the skin resistance electrodes used to locate the acupuncture points and activate the laser beam once they have been found. Numeral 13 indicates the location points used to firmly clip the top and bottom sections 1 together prior to gluing. In Figure 3, numeral 14 indicates the body of the invention which fits over the end cone of body 1 shown in the previous Figures. Numeral 15 indicates the circular rib which fits into groove 8 of the cone of body 1 shown in Figure 1 so as to lock the invention into position during operation. Numeral 16 indicates the central tube of the invention which fits into channel 6 of Figure 1, to such a depth as to keep the possibility of contamination to an absolute minimum. Numeral 17 indicates the two locating ribs to orient the invention, via grooves 7 of Figure onto the output he ad of body 1 of Figure 1. Nur ra 18 indicates the output aperture through which the laser beam emerges when the invention is attached to said laser therapy unit head. In Figure 4, numeral 19 indicates the electrodes used for the skin resistance measurements used for the location of acupuncture points. Numeral 28 indicates the tips of electrodes 19 which ctme into contact with the body of the patient. For galvanic skin resistance measurements only one of the said electrodes 19 is connected to the electrical circuits because the other contact is made via a hand held electrode. However, for localised skin resistance measurements LSR both electrodes 19 are used with the skin between the two electrodes 20 forming part of the circuit. In Figure 5, numeral 21 indicates the spring connectors used to complete the skin resistance measurement circuit when the invention shown in Figure 4 is attached to the laser therapy unit head 1. In Figure 6, numeral 22 indicates the hollow extension stem through which laser beam 5 propagates to the solid transparent head indicated by numeral 23.The laser beam 5 is then totally internally reflected via the flat surface indicated by numeral 24 onto the convex face indicated by numeral 25 via an external fro as spot indicated by rjrnera 26 into the divergent Deam indicated by numeral 27. As far as eye safety IS concerned1 focus point 2 will not be harmful to the eye for Class II safety lasers because the low power beam 5 expands into low intensity beam 27. Also low intensity beam 27 can be used to illuminate a lSraer area of the patient s body.On the other hand, ine focus point 26 is very useful for the treatment of delicate areas such as those on the ears or around the eyes where the standard laser beam output diameters are far too big for precision therapeutic treatments. In Figure 7, numeral 28 indicates a solid optical element through which laser beam 5 propagates after entering through the concave surface indicated by numeral 29 then expands via beam 3 , to exit via the convex surface indicated by numeral 31 to become the output beam indicated by numeral 32 which can have a rectangular or square cross section. In Figure 8, numeral 33 indicates a transparent plastic cap atop stem 22 through which beam 5 propagates, to be reflected into 360 deg planar distribution indicated by numeral 34 via reflection off a conically cut segment indicated by numeral 35.The tip of the invention in this configuration is capped as indicated by numeral 36. The invention has applications in conjunctior with any laser therapy unit. The invention can be manufactured from a wide range of materials inci n both moulded plastics and metals such as stainless steel. The invention provides hygienic, disposable caps for laser therapy units operating both outside and within the human and animal bodies.