# PROCESS FOR PREPARING 5 GUANYLIC ACID

## Claims
Verfahren zur Erzeugung von 5 Guanylsäure GMP , umfassend die Schritte i und ii

## Description
The present invention relates to a process for producing 5 guanylic acid hereinafter referred to as GMP . More particularly, it relates to a process for producing GMP by using GMP is in a great demand as a seasoning agent, and the development of a process for producing GMP at lower cost has been desired. Processes for producing GMP so far known include 1 a process by enzymatically decomposing ribonucleic acid, 2 a process by chemically phosphorylating guanosine, 3 a process by converting XMP to GMP by means of bacteria belonging to the genus Furthermore, a process using a mutant strain whose GMP synthetase activity is intensified by a resistance to chemicals is known Biotechnol. Bioengineer., As a result of studies to develop an advantageous process for producing GMP, it has been found that GMP can be produced with According to the present invention, XMP and ammonia and or L glutamine are converted to GMP in an aqueous medium in the presence of cells of a microorganism selected from Further The transformant to be used in the present invention can be obtained in the following manner. The DNA fragment containing a GMP synthetase gene to be used in the present invention includes those derived from procaryotes, bacteriophage and plasmid, among which DNA fragments containing a GMP synthetase gene and derived from On the chromosome of When GMP is accumulated in the cells, the expression of both genes is suppressed. Furthermore, it is known that there is a secondary promoter between guaB and guaA or in the guaB region which has a lower transcription activity than the promoter at the upstream side J. Bact. Any plasmid can be used for the construction of a recombinant plasmid capable of efficiently expressing the GMP synthetase to be used in the present invention, so far as it can allow the gene of GMP synthetase to be expressed in Preparation of the recombinant of the DNA fragment containing a gene and the vector DNA can be carried out according to a known Any microorganism can be used as a host microorganism according to the present invention, so far as it can express the recombinant DNA and can be utilized to increase the production of GMP, and strains belonging to Transformation of a host microorganism with the recombinant DNA can be carried out according to a known method Cohen et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A., Culturing of As a carbon source, carbohydrates such as glucose, fructose, sucrose, maltose, mannitol, sorbitol, etc., sugar alcohol, glycerol, starch hydrolyzate solution, molasses, etc. can be used. Furthermore, various organic acids such as pyruvic acid, lactic acid, citric acid, etc., and various amino acids such as glutamic acid, methionine, etc. can be used. As a nitrogen source, ammonia, various inorganic and organic ammonium salts such as ammonium chloride, ammonium sulfate, ammonium carbonate, ammonium acetate, etc., amino acids such as glutamic acid, glutamine, methionine, etc., or nitrogen containing organic materials such as peptone, NZ amine, corn steep liquor, meat extract, yeast extract, casein hydrolyzate, fish meal or its digest, chrysalis hydrolyzate, etc. can be used. As an inorganic matter, potassium dihydrogen phosphate, sodium monohydrogen phosphate, magnesium sulfate, sodium chloride, calcium chloride, iron chloride, copper sulfate, manganese chloride, ammonium molybdate, zinc sulfate, etc. are added, if necessary. It is not necessary to add vitamines, amino acids, etc. required for the growth of the microorganism to the medium if they are supplied together with other medium components described above. Culturing is carried out at a temperature of 20 to 50 C, preferably 28 to 42 C and a pH around neutrality under aerobic conditions by shaking culture or aerated stirring culture. The culturing is usually complete in 1 to 24 hours. The culture of the microorganism can be used as such, and also treated products of the culture, for example, a concentrate or dried product of the culture, a filtrate or cells obtained by centrifuging the culture, dried cells, acetone treated cells, surfactant treated cells, organic solvent treated cells, lytic enzyme treated cells, immobilized cells, extracted enzyme preparation from the cells, etc. can be used. The contact reaction producing GMP can be carried out in any aqueous medium. Most preferably, XMP and ammonia or glutamine, and if necessary, ATP, an energy donor, phosphate ions, magnesium ions, a surfactant, an organic solvent, etc. are subjected to reaction in the culture liquor of a microorganism, whereby GMP is accumulated in the culture liquor, or the said components are added to the culture liquor, cells or their treated products after the completion of culturing, and subjected to reaction at 20 to 50 C for 1 to 48 hours, whereby GMP can be accumulated. In that case, it is desirable to adjust the pH to 6 10. As an ammonium source, an ammonium salt is usually used. Concentrations g ℓ of the substrates and additives in the medium or reaction solution are 1 100 XMP, 1 100 ATP, 1 50 MgSO₄ 7H₂O, 1 25 NH₄ ₂SO₄ 7H₂O, and 1 25 glutamine. As an XMP source, any of those containing XMP, such as a microbial XMP fermentation liquor as such, a concentrate thereof, its partially purified preparation, etc. can be used besides the highly purified preparation, as long as it does not inhibit the formation of GMP. As an energy donor, any of carbohydrates such as glucose, arabinose, lactose, maltose, sucrose, mannitol, sorbitol, trehalose, molasses, starch hydrolyzate, etc. organic acids such as pyruvic acid, lactic acid, acetic acid, α ketoglutaric acid, etc. amino acids such as glycine, alanine, aspartic acid, glutamic acid, etc. can be used, as long as it is a non phosphorylated compound and can be utilized by the It is desirable to keep the concentration of phosphate ions and magnesium ions in a range of 4 400 mM in the contact reaction solution. When the amount of the ions taken into the reaction solution from the culture liquor or cells falls within the said range of concentration, it is not necessary to add the ions thereto, whereas when the ions are insufficient, they are added so that the amount will fall within the said range of concentration. As phosphate ions, any of sodium salt, potassium salt, magnesium salt, etc. of phosphoric acid can be used. As magnesium ions, any of inorganic salts and organic acid salts can be used. As a surfactant, cationic surfactants such as polyoxyethylene stearylamine e.g. Nymeen S 215, made by Nippon Oil and Fats Co., Ltd. , cetyl trimethylammonium bromide, etc. anionic surfactants such as sodium oleylamide sulfate, etc., non ionic surfactants such as polyoxyethylene sorbitan monostearate e.g. Nonion ST221, made by Nippon Oil and Fats Co., Ltd. , etc., amphoteric surfactants such as laurylbetaine e.g. Anon BF, made by Nippon Oil and Fats Co., Ltd. , etc. can be used. They are usually used at a concentration of 0.1 to 50 g ℓ, preferably 1 to 20 g ℓ. As an organic solvent, toluene, xylene, analiphatic alcohol, benzene, ethyl acetate, etc. can be used at a concentration of 0.1 to 50 mℓ ℓ, preferably 1 to 20 mℓ ℓ. GMP accumulated in the aqueous reaction solution can be recovered according to the ordinary procedure using activated carbon, ion exchange resin, etc. Construction of a recombinant plasmid which efficiently expresses GMP synthetase pLC34 10, which has a size of about 15 kilobases which will be hereinafter abbreviated as Kb , was cleaved with restriction enzyme EcoRI at one position and with PstI at three positions see Fig. 1 . It was expected that there was guaA on the EcoRI PstI fragment of about 7 kb containing one PstI cleavage site Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun., Then, 5µg of pLC34 10 plasmld DNA prepared above was dissolved in 50 µℓ of a buffer solution containing 10 mM Trishydrochloric acid pH 7.5 , 50 mM NaCl, 7 mM MgCl₂ and 6 mM 2 mercaptoethanol hereinafter referred to as Y 50 buffer solution , and 20 units of restriction enzyme EcoRl made by Takara Shuzo Co., the restriction enzymes hereinafter are all products of Takara Shuzo Co. unless otherwise specified was added thereto. The mixture was subjected to digestion reaction at 37 C for 2 hours, and then 5 units of PstI made by New England Biolabs Co. was added thereto. The mixture was subjected to partial digestion reaction at 37 C for 30 minutes, and the reaction was discontinued by heat treatment at 65 C for 10 minutes. A plasmid DNA fragment of about 7 Kb was purified from the digest by low gelling temperature agarose gel electrophoresis Analytical Biochemistry, Then, about 0.2 µg of the DNA fragment derived from pLC34 10 and about 0.05 µg of the DNA fragment derived from pBR322 which were obtained above were treated with 2 units of T4 ligase at 4 C for 18 hours in 40 µℓ of a buffer solution containing 20 mM Tris hydrochloric acid pH 7.6 , 10 mM MgCℓ₂, 10 mM dithiothreitol and 0.5 mM ATP hereinafter referred to as T4 DNA ligase buffer solution . A plasmid was separated and purified from the transformant, and structural analysis of the plasmid was made by digesting the DNA with restriction enzymes such as EcoRI, PstI, etc. As a result, it was found to be a recombinant plasmid wherein the EcoRI PstI DNA fragment about 7 Kb derived from pLC34 10 was inserted at the EcoRI PstI site of pBR322, and named pXA1. First, 3 µg of pXA1 DNA was dissolved in 30 µℓ of Y 50 buffer solution, and 15 units of HindIII was added thereto. The mixture was subjected to digestion reaction at 37 C for 2 hours, and 2 µℓ of 2M NaCℓ and 15 units of MluI were added thereto. The mixture was subjected to digestion reaction at 37 C for 2 hours. After heat treatment at 65 C for 10 minutes, the smaller DNA fragment containing guaA about 3.3 Kb was purified. On the other hand, pGBK3 was used as a plasmid containing Ptrp. A procedure for constructing pGBK3 is shown in Reference Example 2. pGBK3 has a HindIII cleavage site at the downstream side of Ptrp see Fig. 1 . 3 µg of pGBK3 DNA was digested with HindIII and MluI in the same manner as above, and the larger DNA fragment containing Ptrp about 4 Kb was purified. Then, about 0.2 µg of the DNA fragment derived from pXA1 and about 0.1 µg of the DNA fragment derived from pGBK3 which were obtained above were subjected to ligation reaction at 4 C for 18 hours in 20 µℓ of T4DNA ligase buffer solution in the presence of one unit of T4DNA ligase. As described later, no substantial difference was recognized in the expression of guaA between the strain carrying pXA10 and the strain carrying pXA1 see Table 1 . Thus, plasmid pXAR33 having a shortened distance between Ptrp and guaA was constructed in the following manner see Fig. 1 . First, about 10 µg of pXA10 DNA was dissolved in 60 µℓ of a buffer solution containing 10 mM Tris hydrochloric acid pH 7.5 , 150 mM NaCℓ, 7 mM MgCℓ₂ and 2 mercaptoethanol hereinafter referred to as Y 150 buffer solution , and 40 units of HindIII were added thereto. The mixture was subjected to digestion reaction at 37 C for 2 hours. To 30 µℓ of the HindIII digested reaction solution were added 20 µℓ of Ba131 buffer solution at 5 fold concentration 100 mM Tris HCl pH 8.1 , 60 mM MgCℓ₂, 60 mM CaCℓ₂ and 3 M NaCℓ , 46 µℓ distilled water and 2 units of Ba131 made by Bethesda Research Laboratories , and the mixture was subjected to digestion reaction at 30 C. During the period of 5 to 50 minutes after the start of reaction, the reaction solution was sampled in portions of 10 µℓ from time to time, and each portion was put into 20 µℓ of a phenol chloroform mixture 1 1 by volume . The mixture was thoroughly stirred to discontinue the reaction, and was ice cooled. After centrifuging, an upper layer was sampled, and the 2 fold volume of ice cooled ethanol was added thereto. The mixture was allowed to stand at 80 C for 30 minutes. After the respective ethanol mixtures were centrifuged, the supernatant was discarded, while 5 µℓ of Y 150 buffer solution at a 10 fold concentration and 43 µℓ of distilled water were added to the precipitates to dissolve the precipitates. Then, 3 units of MluI was added to the respective solutions, and the solutions were subjected to digestion reaction at 37 C for 2 hours. The reaction solutions were heat treated at 65 C for 10 minutes, and the smaller DNA fragments not more than 3 Kb were purified. On the other hand, plasmid pGBY1 in which the NruI site on the DNA fragment derived from pBR322 of pGBK3 was changed to BglII site was used as a vector the procedure for constructing pGBY1 is shown in Reference Example 3 . 3 µg of pGBY1 DNA was dissolved in 20 µℓ of Y 50 buffer solution, and 15 units of HindIII was added thereto. The mixture was subjected to digestion reaction at 37 C for 2 hours. After the reaction, the reaction solution was subjected to extraction with phenol and chloroform, and to precipitation with ethanol. The DNA fragment was dissolved in 40 µℓ total volume of 50 mM Tris hydrochloric acid pH 7.6 , 7 mM MgCℓ₂, 6 mM 2 mercaptoethanol, 0.25 mM dATP, 0.25 mM dGTP, 0.25 mM dTTP and 0.25 mM dCTP, and then 6 units of After the extraction with phenol chloroform and the precipitation with ethanol, the precipitate of DNA was dissolved in 20 µℓ of Y 150 buffer solution, and 15 units of MluI was added thereto. The mixture was subjected to digestion reaction at 37 C for 2 hours. The larger DNA fragment having Ptrp about 4.2 Kb was purified from the MluI digestion reaction product by low gelling temperature agarose gel electrophoresis. To about 0.1 µg each of the thus obtained DNA fragments derived from pXA10 was added 0.05 µg of the DNA fragment derived from pGBY1. The respective mixtures were subjected to ligation reaction at 4 C for 18 hours in 20 µℓ total volume of T4 DNA ligase buffer solution in the presence of one unit of T4 DNA ligase. Then, Determination of GMP synthetase activity was carried out according to a known procedure J. Biol. Chem., Seed culture of The toluene treated culture liquor was put into a reacting solution comprising 160 mM Tris hydrochloric acid pH 8.6 , 12 mM ATP, 25 mM XMP, 16 mM MgSO₄ 7H₂O and 40 mM NH₄ ₂SO₄, and the mixture was shaken at 42 C to conduct conversion of XMP to GMP. GMP formed was quantitatively determined by sampling the reaction solution from time to time, mixing the sample with 40 fold volume of 3.5 perchloric acid, centrifuging the mixture, and measuring the absorbance of the supernatant at 290 nm. In Table 1, the GMP synthetase activities of the strains used or obtained in the present invention are shown, wherein one unit of activity is defined as an amount of activity which forms 1 µmole of GMP per minute. The culture liquor wet cell weight 4.6 mg mℓ of pXAR33 carrying strain R 33 obtained in Example 1 was concentrated 40 fold by centrifugation, and toluene was added thereto to make a final concentration of 20 mℓ ℓ. The mixture was shaken at 37 C for 20 minutes. Then, 30 mℓ of a reaction solution comprising 20 mg mℓ XMP Na₂ 7H₂O, 20 mg mℓ ATP Na₂ 3H₂O and 10 mg mℓ NH₄ ₂SO₄ and adjusted to pH 8.6 was placed in a 200 mℓ beaker, and 0.2 mℓ of said cell suspension containing toluene was added thereto. The reaction mixture was stirred by means of a magnetic stirrer 900 rpm , and kept at 42 C for 5 hours, while adjusting the pH to 8.6 with caustic soda. As a result of the reaction, 13.0 mg mℓ 5 GMP Na₂ 7H₂O was formed in the reaction solution. When the host K294 strain was used in place of the R 33 strain, the yield was less than 1 mg mℓ. R 33 strain was inoculated in a 300 mℓ Erlenmeyer flask containing 30 mℓ of L medium and subjected to shaking culture at 30 C for 18 hours by means of a rotary shaker 220 rpm . To the culture liquor were added toluene, XMP Na₂ 7H₂O, ATP Na₂ 3H₂O and NH₄ ₂SO₄ to make 20 µℓ mℓ, 20 mg mℓ, 20 mg mℓ and 10 mg mℓ, respectively. Shaking culture was continued for additional 10 hours while keeping the temperature at 42 C and adjusting the pH to 8.6 with caustic soda. As a result, 13.7 mg mℓ GMP Na₂ 7H₂O was formed and accumulated in the medium. When the host K294 strain was used in place of the R 33 strain, the yield was less than 1 mg mℓ. Water was added to the frozen cells at room temperature to make a suspension at final concentration of 200 g ℓ as wet cell weight, and 40 g ℓ XMP Na₂ 7H₂O, 50 g ℓ glucose, 2 g ℓ sodium phytate, 5 g ℓ Na₂HPO₄ and 5 g ℓ MgSO₄ 7H₂O were dissolved in the suspension concentrations are final ones . The resulting mixture was put into 200 mℓ beakers in portions of 20 mℓ. The respective beakers were kept at 37 C in a thermostat water bath and stirred at 900 rpm by means of magnetic stirrers for 24 hours to convert XMP to GMP, while adjusting the pH to 7.4 with 9 aqueous ammonia see Table 2 . In Table 2, 1 shows the result obtained by using the reaction mixture of said composition as such and 2 shows the result obtained by using the reaction mixture of said composition further admixed with 4 g ℓ Nymeen S 215 and with 10 mℓ ℓ xylene. Construction of recombinant plasmid pGKA2 which expresses human interferon IFN γ see also J. Biochem. 97 1985 153 159 see Figs. 2 and 3 In this example, 6 µg of plasmid pIFNγ G4 which was isolated from ATCC 39123 strain by the above described method for isolation of a plasmid was dissolved in 50 µℓ total volume of a solution containing 20 mM Tris hydrochloric acid Tris HCℓ pH 7.5 , 10 mM MgCℓ₂, 10 mM dithiothreitol and 50 mM NaCℓ. Then, 12 units each of restriction enzymes PvuII and HindIII were added and digestion reaction was carried out at 37 C for 4 hours. The reaction solution was heated at 65 C for 7 minutes to inactivate the enzymes and subjected to purification by low gelling temperature agarose gel electrophoresis to obtain 1.2 µg of a DNA fragment containing human IFN γ DNA of 1.3 Kb. Separately, 4 µg of pKYP11 was dissolved in 40 µℓ total volume of a solution containing 20 mM Tris HCℓ pH 7.5 , 10 mM MgCℓ₂, 10 mM dithiothreitol and 50 mM NaCℓ. 3 units of BamHI was added and digestion reaction was carried out at 37 C for 3 hours. The reaction solution was heated at 65 C for 5 minutes to inactivate the enzyme. Thereafter, 30 µM each of dATP, dCTP, dGTP and dTTP were added and 8 units of The digestion reaction solution of the plasmid pKYP 11 thus obtained was subjected to purification by low gelling temperature agarose gel electrophoresis to obtain about 2.5 µg of a DNA fragment of about 4.7 Kb containing Ptrp. Then, 0.5 µg of the DNA fragment of 1.3 Kb containing human IFN γ DNA and 1.0 µg of the DNA fragment of about 4.7 Kb containing Ptrp, which was obtained from the plasmid pKYP11, were dissolved in 20 µℓ of a solution containing 20 mM Tris HCℓ pH 7.5 , 6 mM MgCℓ₂, 5 mM dithiothreitol and 500 µM ATP, and 4 units of T4 DNA ligase product of New England Biolabs was added. Ligation reaction was carried out at 4 C for 18 hours, and In this example, 6 µg of pGC7 DNA obtained in Reference Example 1 a was dissolved in 50 µℓ total volume of a solution containing 20 mM Tris HCℓ pH 7.5 , 10 mM MgCℓ₂, 10 mM dithiothreitol and 10 mM NaCℓ, and 12 units of restriction enzyme BstNI product of New England Biolabs was added. Reaction was carried out at 60 C for 3 hours. Then, 150 mM NaCℓ and 8 units of SalI were added and digestion reaction was carried out at 37 C for 3 hours. The reaction solution was again heated at 65 C for 5 minutes to inactivate the SalI and subjected to purification by low gelling temperature agarose gel electrophoresis to obtain about 0.8 µg of a DNA fragment of about 1,125 bp containing a large portion of the human IFN γ DNA. Separately, 3 µg of pKYP10 was dissolved in 40 µℓ total volume of a solution containing 20 mM Tris HCℓ pH 7.5 , 10 mM MgCℓ₂, 10 mM dithiothreitol and 100 mM NaCℓ. 6 units each of restriction enzymes HindIII and SalI were added and digestion reaction was carried out at 37 C for 3 hours. The reaction solution was heated at 65 C for 5 minutes to inactivate HindIII and SalI and subjected to purification by low gelling temperature agarose gel electrophoresis to obtain about 1.8 µg of a DNA fragment of about 4.1 Kb containing Ptrp. The N terminal amino acid of the mature human IFN γ polypeptide is Cys. In order to express mature IFN γ DNA, it is necessary to furnish an initiation codon ATG just before the 5 terminal codon TGT Cys and further to adjust the length between SD sequence at the downstream side of Ptrp and ATG to a suitable length of 6 18 bp. Therefore, the following DNA linker was synthesized. Two single chain DNAs of 18 mer and 15 mer were synthesized by a conventional tri ester method R. Crea, Then, 2 µg each of phosphorylated 18 mer and 15 mer DNAs were mixed and the mixture was heated at 70 C for 5 minutes and allowed to stand at room temperature for annealing to obtain the DNA linker having the structure given above. 0.4 µg of the BstNI SalI fragment of 1,125 bp obtained above and derived from pGC7 and 1.0 µg of the DNA fragment of 4.1 Kb obtained by digestion of the expression vector pKYP10 with HindIII and SalI were dissolved in 25 µℓ total volume of a solution containing 20 mM Tris HCℓ pH 7.5 , 6 mM MgCℓ₂, 5 mM dithiothreitol and 500 µM ATP. About 0.1 µg of the DNA linker mentioned above was added to the mixture, followed by addition of 6 units of T4 DNA ligase. Ligation reaction was carried out at 4 C for 17 hours. The human IFN γ DNA in pGKA2 is different from known DNAs in that the DNA has RsaI site and the ninth amino acid of the human IFN γ polypeptide encoded by the DNA is glutamine Gln . Further, the synthesized DNA used above is different from the one used by P.W. Gray, in the underlined parts. Thus, pGKA2 has a restriction site for BstNI, CCAGG, in the DNA region coding for human IFN γ and this feature also distinguishes pGKA2 from known plasmids. Furthermore, the length and structure between the SD sequence and ATG are important because of influence on the expression of proteins in Construction of recombinant plasmid pGBK3 which expresses human IFN γ under control of tacI promoter As the first step for constructing the recombinant plasmid, insertion of the transcription termination site of In this example, 2 µg of plasmid pIFNγ G4 about 3.6 Kb was dissolved in 20 µℓ of Y 50 buffer solution, and 6 units of PvuII was added thereto. Digestion reaction was carried out at 37 C for 2 hours, and then discontinued by heat treatment at 65 C for 10 minutes. Then, 0.1 µg of the digest was subjected to ligation reaction at 4 C for 18 hours with 2 units of T4 DNA ligase in 20 µℓ of T4 DNA ligase buffer solution in the presence of 5 picomoles of 5 phosphorylated BamHI linker 5 pCCGGATCCGG 3 made by Collaborative Research Co. . Construction of recombinant plasmid pKYP14 used as a source of the lpp terminator is described below. First, 5 µg of trp promoter carrying plasmid pKYP10 Japanese Unexamined Published Patent Application No. 110600 83 was dissolved in 40 µℓ of Y 100 buffer solution, and 10 units of BamHI was added thereto. Digestion reaction was carried out at 37 C for 2 hours, and then 1 µℓ of Y 100 buffer solution, 2.5 µℓ of 1M NaCℓ, 5.5 µℓ of distilled water and 20 units of SaℓI were added thereto. The reaction was further carried out at 37 C for 2 hours. After heat treatment at 65 C for 10 minutes, the larger plasmid DNA fragment about 4.9 Kb was purified by low gelling temperature agarose gel electrophoresis. Separately, 5 µg of lpp terminator carrying plasmid pIN II Al K. Nakamura, et al. The EMBO Journal Then, about 0.1 µg of the DNA fragment derived from pKYP10 and about 0.05 µg of the DNA fragment derived from pIN II Al which were obtained above were subjected to ligation reaction at 4 C for 18 hours in 20 µℓ of T4 DNA ligase buffer solution in the presence of one unit of T4 DNA ligase. A plasmid DNA was isolated from the Insertion of lpp terminator at the downstream side of IFN γDNA was carried out by recombining recombinant plasmids pGBD1 and pKYP14 obtained in the foregoing procedures a and b in the following manner. First, 5 µg of plasmid pGBD1 about 3.6 Kb was dissolved in 30 µℓ of a buffer solution containing 10 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 , 7 mM MgCl₂ and 6 mM 2 mercaptoethanol hereinafter referred to as Y 0 buffer solution , and 10 units of ClaI was added thereto. Digestion reaction was carried out at 37 C for two hours. After heat treatment at 65 C for 10 minutes and subsequent ice cooling, 2 µℓ of Y 0 buffer solution at 10 fold concentration, 5 µℓ of 1M NaCℓ, 12 µℓ of distilled water and 2.0 units of restriction enzyme BamHI were added thereto and mixed. Digestion reaction was carried out at 37 C for 2 hours. The plasmid DNA was partially digested with BamHI during the reaction. The resulting ClaI BamHI DNA fragment about 1.3 Kb containing IFN γ DNA was purified. Separately, 5 µg of plasmid pKYP14 about 5.8 Kb containing lpp terminator was digested with 10 units of ClaI and 20 units of BamHI in 50 µℓ of Y 50 buffer solution for 2 hours, and then the larger plasmid DNA fragment of about 5.0 Kb containing the lpp terminator was purified. The thus obtained DNA fragment derived from pKYP14 about 0.1 µg and DNA fragment derived from pGBDl about 0.05 µg were subjected to ligation reaction at 4 C for 18 hours in 20 µℓ of T4 DNA ligase buffer solution in the presence of one unit of T4 DNA ligase. A plasmid DNA was isolated from the Plasmid pGBK3 having the structure wherein the lpp terminator is inserted at the downstream side of IFN γ DNA was constructed by recombining recombinant plasmid pGBJ2 obtained in the foregoing step c and IFN γ expressing plasmid pGKA2 see Reference Example 1 in the following manner. First, about 5 µg of plasmid pGKA2 about 5.2 Kb was dissolved in 30 µℓ of Y 50 buffer solution, and more than 10 units of PstI was added thereto. Digestion reaction was carried out at 37 C for 2 hours. After heat treatment at 65 C for 10 minutes and subsequent ice cooling, 2 µℓ of Y 150 buffer solution at 10 fold concentration, 3 µℓ of 1M NaCl, 14 µℓ of distilled water and 10 units of restriction enzyme NcoI made by New England Biolabs, the same restriction enzyme was used hereinafter were added thereto, and digestion reaction was carried out at 37 C for 2 hours. After heat treatment at 65 C for 10 minutes, a plasmid DNA fragment of about 1.85 Kb containing IFN γ DNA was purified. Then, about 5 µg of recombinant plasmid pGBJ2 about 6.4 Kb obtained above was subjected to the same treatment as applied to pGKA2, and the resulting PstI NcoI plasmid DNA fragment of about 4.7 Kb was purified. The thus obtained DNA fragment derived from pGKA2 about 0.1 µg and DNA fragment derived from pGBJ2 about 0.1 µg were subjected to ligation reaction at 4 C for 18 hours in 20 µℓ of T4 DNA ligase buffer solution in the presence of one unit of T4 DNA ligase. A plasmid DNA was separated and purified from the Construction of pGBYl see Fig. 5 First, about 2 µg of plasmid pGBK3 about 5.9 Kb was dissolved in 20 µℓ of Y 100 buffer solution, and 4 units of NruI made by New England Biolabs was added thereto. Digestion reaction was carried out at 37 C for 2 hours, and discontinued by heat treatment at 65 C for 10 minutes. Then, 0.1 µg of the digest was subjected to ligation reaction at 4 C for 18 hours with 2 units of T4 DNA ligase in 20 µℓ of T4 DNA ligase buffer solution in the presence of 5 pM of 5 phosphorylated BglII linker 5 pCAGATCTG 3 made by Takara Shuzo Co. .