# Reinforcing composite for roofing membranes and process for making such composites.

## Abstract
A reinforcing composite for bituminous roofing membranes is made by laminating fiberglass and polyester mats and scrims coated with thermosetting adhesives.

## Claims
We claim 1. A composite for reinforcing roofing membranes comprising three or more layers bonded together with a thermosetting resin one of which layers is made of fiberglass, one of which is made of polyester, and the third of which is made of either polyester or fiberglass further, at least one of which is in the form of a scrim, one of which is in the form of a mat, and a third of which is in the form of a mat or a scrim wherein the composite is flexible, capable of being impregnated by a bitumenous material, and has sufficient strength to be useful in reinforcing membrances. 2. The composite of claim 1 in which the layers are two fiberglass mats and a polyester scrim. 3. The composite of claim 1 in which the layers are two fiberglass mats, a polyester scrim, and a polyester mat. 4. The composite of claim 1 in which the layers are a polyester mat, a polyester scrim, and a fiberglass mat. 5. The composite of claim 1 in which the layers are a fiberglass mat, a fiberglass scrim, a polyester scrip and a polyester mat. 6. The composite of claim 1 in which the layers are two polyester mats, a fiberglass scrim, and a polyester ,mat. 7. The composite of claim 1 in which the layers are a fiberglass mat, a polyester scrim, and a fiberglass scrim. 8. A process for making a composite to use in reiriorcing roofing membranes comprising the steps of selecting at least three materials, one of which is fiberglass, one of which is polyester, and the third of which is fiberglass or polyester one of which is in the form of a scrim, one of which is the form of a mat, and the third of which is in the form of either a mat or a scrim applying to at least one scrim a coating of thermosetting adhesive combining the other selected materials with said scrim before the adhesive has fully set and thereafter causing the adhesive to set further, thus binding the materials together into a composite and cooling the composite thus created wherein the resulting composite is flexible, capable of being impregnated by bitumenous material, and has sufficient strength to be useful in reinforcing roofing membranes. 9. The process of claim 8 in which the adhesive is a water based cross linkable adhesive and the materials after being combined are passed over heated rollers which cause drying and setting of the adhesive.

## Description
Reinforcing Composite for Roofing Membranes and Process for Making Such Composites Background of the Invention 1. Field of the InventionThis invention relates to a composite for use in reinforcing roofing membranes made from bituminous materials. The use of this invention by manufacturers of such membranes results in significantly easier processing with less complicated equipment. Moreover, sufficient strength in the roofing membranes can be achieved with less reinforcing material than previously used. The membranes may also be made significantly thinner, which is not only a saving in the amount of bituminous raw material required and a reduction in the weight load on the roof after installation, but also increases flexibility so that handling during installation involves a decreased risk of creating cracks or other weaknesses which could lead to leaks.Furthermore, by proper selection of materials, the membranes can be made relatively stiff or thick, which is desirable in some circumstances. 2. Description of the Prior ArtAsphalt like roofing membranes, such as those which are used on flat roofs, have been made from bituminous materials reinforced with three separate layers of reinforcing materials polyester mat, non woven fiberglass scrim, and fiberglass mat. Other combinations of separate layers used previously have included a polyester mat and fiberglass scrim, b fiberglass mat and polyester scrim, and c polyester mat and fiberglass scrim. These reinforcing layers have been unwound from their respective separate rolls and led together through a tank or vat of heated bituminous material using methods which are known in the art. We are using mat in its usual meaning of an entangled mass of filaments and wscrimt in its usual meaning of an open fabric.The bituminous material has been a modified bitumen such as asphalt combined with about 20 by weight of atactic polypropylene or 5 to 15 styrene butadiene styrene rubber. The bituminous material has acted as an adhesive to hold the layers within the membrane. It has also been described that a single reinforcing composite may be prepared of at least one layer of fiberglass, at least one layer of polyester, and at least a third layer which is fiberglass or polyester.Furthermore, these materials may be formed such that at least one of them is in the form of a mat, at least one is in the form of a scrim coated with a thermoplastic adhesive, and at least a third layer is in the form of a mat or a scrim. In addition, as set forth below, we have learned that it is possible to make a composite with advantageous properties for some uses which does not require a scrim with a thermoplastic adhesive. Summary of the InventionOur invention provides making the single reinforcing composite comprising three or more layers bonded together with a thermosetting resin adhesive. The words thermosetting adhesives are used herein to mean a thermosetting adhesive which maintains its bonding ability and stiffness up to about 4250F, that is to say, a thermosetting adhesive which is not tacky and soft at about 4250F. In accordance with this definition, it will be understood that some thermosetting adhesives, if partially cured, may act as thermoplastic adhesives.These layers may be bonded together by the adhesive under heat to form a single, thin composite which is useful for reinforcing roofing membranes. In a preferred embodiment, they may be bound together using a thermosetting adhesive, which may be applied to a scrim layer and then laminating the other layers to that scrim layer before the adhesive has completely set to form a single composite which is useful for reinforcing roofing membranes.Our process and the composite made from it have several advantages over the prior art, including the following.By combining the various reinforcing elements as we describe, the thickness and weight of each layer can be reduced because each one need not be self supporting when it is subjected to stress at the time it is unwound and bituminous material is applied. Moreover, the composites of this invention may have a reduced total thickness for the reinforcing layer, which results in less bituminous material being required. This reduction in material not only cuts costs, but increases ease of handling and reduces roof loads when installed. The thinner reinforcing membrane and the resulting reduction in overall thickness also gives additional significant advantages beyond reduction in materials and weight.A thinner roofing membrane is less likely to crack or develop weaknesses during installation, which could lead to leaks when it is made into rolls and stored, transported, unrolled, and applied to roofs. This is particularly important in winter in colder climates. A single reinforcing element also results in easier processing for the manufacturer, who need not be concerned with aligning separate reinforcing elements while they are led to and through the vats of hot bituminous material.When a thermosetting adhesive is used to bind the composite into one layer, the composite has the advantage of being adaptable to a wider variety of processing conditions and equipment than when a thermoplastic resin acts as the binder. In addition, with thermosetting resins it is possible to make thicker and or stiffer composites, which is desirable in some uses for roofing membranes.In reinforcing composites of this invention, if two glass components are used, we prefer to place them side by sideFiberglass has advantageous properties of tensile strength, thermal dimensional stability, and resistance to wear and deterioration such as may be due to ultraviolet light. Polyester mat and scrim provide tear resistance.The scrims used in this invention may be coated with a thermoplastic adhesive such as polyvinyl chloride PVC latex adhesive or PVC plastisol adhesive. But if thermoplastic adhesive is used to bind the non woven scrim together, it should be compatible with the thermosetting resin to be used. The scrim used in this invention is preferably a non woven scrim or a weft inserted warp knit fabric or other knit fabric, through it may also be woven. We prefer that the fiberglass yarns range from 150 1 0 15000 yards pound yield, 330 dtex to 75 1 0 or heavies, up to 18 1 0 1,8U0 yards pounds yield, 2,640 dtex . The weight of fiberglass scrim including any thermoplastic adhesive used to bind it together we prefer may range from 0.35 ounces per square yard 12 grams square meter to 7 ounces per square yard 235 yrams square meter , with weights of about 5 ounces per square yard being optimal. Thermoplastic adhesives when used on fiberglass scrim to bind a non woven scrim together may range in weight preferably from 3 parts by weight of adhesive to 100 parts by weight of yarn up to 100 parts of adhesive to 100 parts of yarn.Polyester scrim including adhesive may preferably range in weight between 0.25 ounces per square yard 8.5 grams per square meter and 5 ounces per square yard including adhesive made of threads of 200 to 3000 denier 220 to 3300 dtex , with 500 to 2000 denier 550 dtex to 2200 dtex being preferable and 1000 denier 1100 dtex threads being most perferred. The weight of thermoplastic adhesive when used on polyester scrim to bind non woven scrim together may range in weight preferably between 20 and 100 parts by weight to 100 parts by weight of yarn, with the most preferred range being 25 to 50 parts of adhesive. The weight of thermosetting adhesive when used as a binder for the composite may range between 5 and 100 parts by weight to 100 parts by weight of yarn, with the preferred range being 25 to 50 parts of adhesive. When an adhesive bonded scrim is used, the weight of the adhesive in the scrim is included in the yarn weight for these calculations.Examples of suitable thermoplastic adhesives for the fiberglass and polyester non woven adhesive bonded scrims are polyvinyl chlorides such as PVC plastisol PVC dispersion in plasticizer , and PVC latex, having melting temperatures ranging from 2750F 1350C to 4250F 2200C .Other forms of polymeric resins such as acetates and acrylics may be used, as may other thermoplastic adhesives.The preferred thermosetting adhesives to bind the laminated composite together, for both fiberglass and polyester non woven adhesive bonded scrims are polyvinyl alcohol, styrene butadiene latex, acrylic latex and the water based thermoplastic resins which are capable of later modification by the cross linking components of the thermosetting adhesive. Thermosetting adhesives, which are typically a water based adhesive capable of cross linking to give a thermoset structure, may also be made by adding thermosetting resins to thermoplastic resins for example, by adding a urea formaldehyde resin to a styrene butadiene latex .The polyester mat may be a paper laid mat of staple filaments or preferably spun bonded of continuous filaments, and preferably having isotropic properties.The weight of the mat per square yard is preferred at 0.4 14 to 1.0 34 gm m2 ounces, though weights up to about 6 ounces per square yard may be used. The fiberglass mat may be formed on a paper machine by what is known as a wet process , or it may be a resin bonded a so called dry process staple or continous filament mat and is preferably isotropic. The fiberglass mat may preferably range in weight from 30 grams to 300 grams per square meter, with 30 to 100 grams being more preferred and 30 to 45 considered optimal.In the process of laminating using thermosetting adhesive as the laminating adhesive, the scrim fabric or fabrics are unrolled and fed through an adhesive applicator which typically consists of a steel roll resting above a resilient roll, with the lower roll resting in a tray of adhesive. The resin solids of the thermosetting laminating adhesive, the pressure between the applicator rolls, and the configuration of the fabric passing through the rolls may be adjusted by those skilled in the art to obtain the necessary pick up of adhesive onto the fabric.As the fabric or fabrics leave the adhesive applicator and travel under tension towards a series of steam heated drying rolls, mat components are fed in above and or below the scrim fabric or fabrics and all these components then contact one another in traversing a set of at least two and preferably four or more drying rolls, such that both sides of the composite receive direct heat to ensure a good bond on both sides of the structure. The temperature of the heated rolls, and the running speed may be adjusted by those skilled in the art to obtain thorough drying and curing in order to obtain maximum adhesion between the various components.The composites of this invention are suitable for reinforcing a roofing membrane made, for example, by running the reinforcing composite through a tank or vat of hot modified bitumen with thickness controlled by metering rolls or doctor blades. The finished product is suitable for application by hot mopping, torching, cold adhesive, or other appropriate methods. It may be fully adhered, loose laid or mechanically fastened to the roof.The following examples will illustrate the invention. Example 1Polyester scrim having 4 x 4 yarns per inch 1.6 x 1.6 yarns cm of 1000 denier 1100 dtex high tenacity polyester yarn and coated with 20 parts by weight of polyvinyl alcohol resin to give a total weight of 1.25 ounces per square yard 42 grams per square meter was in turn coated with an additional 20 parts of cross linking acrylic latex and the coated fabric brought into contact with a fiberglass mat of 1.45 ounces per square yard 50 grams per square meter on each side of the polyester fabric. The composite was dried and cured. Example 2The polyester scrim component mentioned in Example 1, together with a fiberglass scrim having 6 x 6 yarns per inch 2.4 x 2.4 yarns per cm. of 370 1340 dtex yarn and coated with 10 parts by weight of polyvinyl alcohol resin to give a total weight of 2.3 ounces per square yard 77 grams per square meter , were in turn coated with an additional 20 parts of cross linking acrylic latex and the coated fabrics brought into contact with a fiberglass mat of 1.45 ounces per square yard 50 grams per square meter on the outer side of the coated fabrics. The composite was dried and cured. Example 3Polyester scrim was coated with acrylic adhesive as described in Example 1 but was laminated with fiberglass mat of 1.45 ounces per square yard 50 grams per square meter on one side and a continuous filament spunbonded polyester mat weighing 2 ounces per square yard 68 grams per square meter on the other side. The composite was dried and cured. Example 4Polyester scrim and fiberglass scrim were coated with acrylic adhesive as described in Example 2 but were laminated with a fiberglass mat of 1.45 ounces per square yard 50 grams per square meter on one side and a continuous filament spunbonded polyester mat weighing 1 ounce per square yard 32 grams per square meter on the other side. The composite was dried and cured. Example 5Polyester scrim and fiberglass scrim were coated with acrylic resin as described in Example 2 but were laminated with a polyester mat of 1 ounce per square yard 32 grams per square meter on the outsides of the coated fabrics. The composite was dried and cured. Example 6Fiberglass scrim having 6 x 6 yards per inch 2.4 x 2.4 yarns per cm. of 37 1 0 1340 dtex yarn and coated with 10 parts by weight of polyvinyl alcohol to give a total weight of 2.3 ounces per square yard 77 grams per square meter was in turn coated with an additional 20 parts of cross linking acrylic latex and the fabric brought into contact with a fiberglass mat of 1.45 ounces per square yard 50 grams per square meter on one side and a continuous filament spunbonded polyester mat weighing 2 ounces per square yard 68 grams per square meter on the other side. The composite was dried and cured.In each of the above examples the process produced a reinforcing, impregnatable composite for use in roofing membranes.