# OPTICAL FIBRE COUPLER

## Claims
Koppler für optische Fasern, bestehend aus

## Description
The present invention concerns telecomunications systems using light radiations guided by transmission media and more particularly it concerns a coupler for optical fibres, as defined in the prior art portion of claim 1, such prior art being known from IBM Technical Disclosure Bulletin, Vol. 23, No. 3, August 1980, page 978 F.J. Bealle, Parabolic Coupler for Fibre Optics . A technical problem to be solved in optical fibre interconnection is the power distribution from a transmission medium to a plurality of media while keeping uniform the coupling and low the power loss. In fact, while the loss in case of a coupler between two fibres only is basically due to non perfect alignment and to different optical fibres characteristics, the coupling loss among one and a plurality of fibres can be also due to shaded zones. Owing to these, the optical power outgoing from a fibre is not entirely collected by the other fibres. In addition a good coupler is to keep the original light beam characteristics unchanged and above all those concerning the modal distribution. In other words, different order modes propagating into fibres are not to be mixed. This would cause, e.g., a distortion of transmitted optical pulses, in case of multimode fibres, and excitation of non propagating modes in case of monomode fibres. As to fabrication, design and mechanical parts ought to be simplified as much as possible and the number of different materials used ought to be reduced. Finally the coupler is to be made insensititve to external mechanical strains, which could give rise to misalignments and hence power losses. An optical coupler is described in Advances in Ceramics. II Vol. Physics of Fiber Optics by Kapany, edited by The American Ceramic Society . This coupler couples a fibre to two other fibres, by exploiting power reflection operated by two semi spherical surfaces. They concentrate the radiation emitted by a fibre into the other two. Yet this coupler presents a number of disadvantages, among which In fact, to optimize the optical path it is necessary to leave a certain distance in the air between the fibre ends and the reflecting surfaces, and as a consequence, the coupler can not be made in one piece. Another coupling technique among a plurality of fibres consists of fusing a bundle of fibres duly prepared, so obtaining a zone where there is no core distinction. The fused zone is then drawn and possibly machined. Yet said coupler is difficult to make due both to preparation of single fibres which must generally be deprived of the coat, and to correct fusion of the whole. In addition an inconvenience of this coupling is that is causes propagating modes to be mixed. The initially mentioned prior art IBM Technical Disclosure Bulletin uses a hollow mirror body having an internal parabolic mirror surface, along the axis of which an optical output fibre is located, terminating in the focus of the parabolic surface, while a distance therefrom close to the circumference of the recess of the hollow reflecting body, a ring of optical input fibres is arranged, the signals transmitted therethrough being summed up by the central output fibre. The central output fibre may be equipped with a convex end phase so as to constitute a lense shape. Coupling through the air space within the mirror body causes difficulties as mentioned, the number of input fibres is restricted by the centering fibre guiding plate consisting of two concentric rings and by the fact that the paraboloid part the reflected rays from which can be coupled is restricted by the numerical appertures of the optical fibres, with the general consequence that only a part of the reflected light can be evaluated. Besides, the two ring construction of the centering plate is to be plugged into the hollow recess of the mirror body after insertion and fastening of the fibre ends, the coupler thus not being a one piece implement and being sensitive to mechanical strain and vibration. Said disadvantages are overcome by the optical fibre coupler provided by the present invention, which allows the coupling between one and whatever number of fibres, does not suffer in case of mechanical vibrations, can be made in one piece, does not cause propagating modes to be mixed and is small sized a 6 fibre coupler could be housed in a 4 mm side cube . Besides radiation intensity collected by each fibre can be varied by a suitable mask, thus obtaining an optical signal processing. This can be made by adopting a technology similar to the one known for lenses, particularly for stacked planar opticas also usable for coupling two optical fibres as described in Applied Optics, Vol. 21 No. 19, October 1982, pages 3456 3460, Iga et al Stacked Planar Optics An Application of the Planar Microlens . The coupler for optical fibres, according to the present invention, is characterized in that the first reflecting member is a solid glass body The paraboloid s focus has to lie on the image plane of the central fibre in order to reflect the incoming optical beam as a plane wave. On the other hand, the device has also to be suitable to act inversely, i.e. the central fibre has to be able to act as a collector for the light emitted from the peripheral fibres. Thus the position of the central fibre is essential for the functioning of the device. The design of claim 2 even further widens the range of the angle of light to be exploited which angle is not limited by the numerical aperture of the optical fibre. By putting the axial fibre end to a point suited to illuminate the whole facing lense, this renders divergent the optical beam coming from the fibre, or vice versa, in order to illuminate the whole paraboloid and then all the remaining fibres which can be packed all over the ring shaped zone surrounding the central fibre. Further preferred details of the invention will appear from the following description given, by way of example, of an embodiment of the invention illustrated with reference to the accopanying drawings, in which The coupler, shown in Fig. 1, consists of a first part S made of glass, having the geometical shape of a round paraboloid limited by a plane perpendicular to the axis. The external surface of the curved zone is rendered reflective towards the concavity of the paraboloid by deposition of a suitable material, e.g. silver, aluminium, etc. A second part consists of glass plate P, with plane and parallel surfaces wherein hemispherical lenses L1, ... L5 are obtained. Said lenses are preferably distributed along concentric circles, with their maximum circles lying on one of the plane surfaces of the plate. This surface is soldered by suitable optical glue to the plane surface of the paraboloid. Optical fibres F1, ..., F5, integral with plate P and held in a fixed position by a suitable centering plate C, are placed with their axes coincident with those of lenses. Plate C is provided with guides perpendicular to the surfaces and is soldered to plate P. The thickness of plate P containing the lenses depends on the focal lenght of the lenses considered, since to optimize the radiation power entering and emerging from the fibres it is necessary to respect the optical system geometry. Fibre F3, which has its axis coincident with the axis of the paraboloid, illuminates central semispherical lens L3 from a distance greater than the focal distance of the lens. The paraboloid focus lies on image plane of fibre F3, while the paraboloid reflects the optical beam as a plane wavefront in turn condensed by the lenses on the single output fibre. The device can also operate inversely, i.e. the central fibre can act as a collector of the radiations coming from all the other fibres. A possible device can comprise 19 fibres, one input fibre and 18 output fibres, arranged in numbers of 6 and 12 on two concentric circles. In this case the losses due to geometric factors can be reduced to a minimum value of 1.4 dB. Of course the losses decrease with the increase of the number of coupled fibres. In this case plate P can be made as in Fig. 2, with lenses symmetrically placed around the center. A third circle would comprise a number of fibres which is twice as great as that of the fibres lying on the second circle, i.e. 24 fibres. At the present state of glass technology the coupler size and maximum fibre density mainly depend on lense sizes. A reduction of these improves the optical and geometric characteristics of the optical coupler. A possible method of making hemispherical lenses exploits the ion electrophoresis causing a refractive index variation in a kind of glass of suitable chemical composition. Plate P is masked according to a desired geometry and is immersed into a galvanic bath of the melt salt of the diffusing ion. Diffusion laws ensure the fabrication of hemispherical lenses with graded index. Such a method is described in Stacked planar optics by the use of planar microlens array by K. Iga et al. Procedings of 10th ECOC 84 3 6 September 1984 Liederhalle, Stuttgart. As an alternative the lenses can be directly obtained with ion implantation on the plane paraboloid surface, fabricating the whole coupler in one piece. Variations and modifications to the above embodiments may be made without departing from the scope of the invention as claimed.