# Fastener.

## Abstract
A fastener 1 comprises a fastener body 1a made of a synthetic resin. The fastener body 1a is formed on and fixed to a first member 7 to be fixed with a second member 6 , by outsert molding. A cylindrical fastening extension 2, 2 extends from the fastener body 1 , which fastening exten sion 2, 2 is engageable with a through opening 6a formed through the second member 6 . The fastening extension 2, 2 has an axial recess 3, 3a . A cylindrical knock member 5, 5 , 5a is formed integrally with the fastener body 1a and extends opposite the recess 3, 3a of the fastening extension 2, 2 . The knock member 5, 5 , 5a is coaxial with the fastening extension 2, 2 and designed to enter the recess 3, 3a so as to radially deform the fastening extension 2, 2 and so depress its periphery against the inner periphery of the through opening 6a of the second member 6 so as to fix the second member 6 to the first member 7 . Preferably, the knock member 5, 5 , 5a is integrally formed with the fastener body 1a and connected to the latter through a thin annular strip section 1d . The annular strip section 1d is designed to be broken when the head of the knock member 5, 5 , 5a is struck to force the knock member 5, 5 , 5a into the recess 3, 3a .

## Claims
C1JAIS 1. A fastener 1 for fixing at least two members 6, 7 having through openings 6a, 7a and being disposed in opposition to each other, characterized in a first and a second section integrally formed, said first section being engageable to one 7 of said two members and said second section being engageable to the other 6 of said two sections and at least one of said first and second sections com prising a cylindrical extension 2, 2 radially deformable at least at portion near one end thereof, said cylindrical extension 2, 2 having an axial opening 3 open at at least one end and a cylindrical member 5, 5 , 5a integrally formed with said first and second sections and disposed in opposition te said open end of said axial opening 3, 3a , said cylindrical member 5, 5 , 5a being connected to the periphery of said open end of said axial opening 3, 3a through a sheer susceptible section lid which is thin enough to be sheered away by an impact applied to said cylindrical member 5, 5 , 5a so as to allow entry of said cylindrical member 5, 5 , 5a into said axial opening 3 of said cylindrical extension 2, 2 with resulting radial outward deformation of said deformable portion of said cylindrical extension 2, 2 . 2. The fastener as set forth in claim 1, characterized in that said cylindrical extension 2 has at least one slit 4 allowing radial deformation of said deformable portion. 3. The fastener as set forth in claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the diameter of said cylindrical member 5, 5 , a is slightly greater than that of said axial opening 3, 3a at least at a section adjoining said deformable portion of said cylindrical extension 5, 5 , 5a after having entered said axial opening 3, 3a of said cylindrical extension 2, 2 . 4. The fastener as set forth in any one of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that said opening end of said axial opening 3, 3a is located on the opposite side of said clyindrical extension 5, 5a from said deformable portion. 5. The fastener as set forth in any one of claims 1 to 4, characterized in That said two members 6, 7 are substrates for electrical circuit boards. 6. The fastener as set forth in any one of claims 1 to 5, characterized in that said fastener 1 is made of a synthetic resin. 7. The fastener as set forth in any one of claims 1 to 5, characterized in that the one of said first and second sections other than that having said cylindrical extension 5, 5 , 5a ist initially molded to the corresponding one 7 of said two members by means of outsert molding. 8. A fixing structure for fixing a second segment 6 onto a first segment 7 by means of a fastener 1 characterized in said fastener 1 being initially molded onto said first segment 7 and having a first and a second section, said first section engaging said first segment 7 , and said second section having at least one cylindrical extension 2, 2 with a radially deformable top portion, said cylindrical extension 2, 2 being adapted to pass through a through opening 6a in said second segment 6 and having an axial opening 3, 3a , and said cylindrical extension 2, 2 having an original outer diameter slightly smaller than the inner diameter of said through opening 6a and a cylindrical knock body 5, 5 , 5a integrally formed with said fastener 1 and opposing said axial opening 3, 3a , said cylindrical knock body 5, 5 , 5a being connected to the peripheral portion of the open end of said axial opening 3, 3a by means of a sheer section id which is also formed integrally with said fastener 1 and which is sufficiently thin to be easily sheered off by an impact applied to said cylindrical knock body 5, 5 , 5a so as to allow the knock body 5, 5 , 5a to enter said axial opening 3, 3a with resulting radial outward deforration of said cylindrical extension 2, 2 at least at the radially deformable top portion, the magnitude of radial and outward deformation of said top portion being sufficient to establish firm engagement between said top portion of said clyindrical extension 2, 2 and the inner periphery of said through opening 6a of said second segment 6 . 9. The fixing structure as set forth in claim 8, characterized in that said cylindrical extension 2, 2 has a radial jaw section 2a at its top, which jaw section 2a having a greater diameter than the inner diameter of said through opening 6a of said second segment 6 and being capable of passing through said through opening 6a while causing radial inward deformation of said radially deformable top portion of said cylindrical extension 2, 2 so as to extend through said through opening 6a while engaging the peripheral portion of said through opening 6a . 10. The fixing structure as set forth in claim 8 or 9, characterized in that said cylindrical extension 2, 2 has a radial slit 4 allowing radial deformation of said top portion. 11. The fixing structure as set forth in any one of claims 8 to 10, characterized in that said knock body 5, 5 , 5a has a diameter greater than the inner diameter of said axial opening 3, 3a at a portion corresponding to said radially deformable top portion. 12. The fixing structure as set forth in any one of claims 8 to 11, characterized in that said fastener 1 , said knock bod 5, 5 , 5a and said sheer section Id are made of the same synthetic resin material. 13. The fixing structure as set forth in any one of claims 8 to 12, characterized in that said fastener 1 is initially mounted on said first segment 7 by means of outsert molding. 14. The fixing structure as set forth in any one of claims 8 to 13, characterized in that said first and second segments are substrates 6, 7 . 15. A method of fixing a first board like member 6 to a second board like member 7 , characterized in the steps of forming a first through opening 6a through said first board like member 6 forming a second through opening 7a through said second board like member 7 forming a fastener 1 having a first section engageable with said second board like member 7 and a second section having at least one cylindrical extension 2, 2 radially deformable at least at a portion near one end, said cylindrical extension 2, 2 defining an axial opening 3, 3a with at least one open end and a cylindrical member 5, 5 , 5a integrally formed with said first and second sections and disposed in opposition to said open end of said axial opening 3, 3a said cylindrical member 5, 5 , Sa being connected to th peripheral portion of said open end of said axial opening 3, 3a through a sheer section id which is thin enough to be sheered off by an impact applied to said cylindrical member 5, 5 , 5a thereby allowing entry of said cylindrical member 5, 5 , 5a into said axial opening 3, 3a of said cylindrical extension 2, 2 with resulting radial outward deformation of said deformable portion of said cylindrical extension 2, 2 inserting said cylindrical extension through said first through opening 6a of said first board like member 6 and striking said cylindrical member 5, 5 , 5a to cause sheering of said sheering section id and forcing entry of said cylindrical member 5, 5 , 5a into said axial opening 3, 3a . 16. The method as set forth in claim 15, characterized in that said fastener 1 is mounted on said second board like member 7 by means of outsert molding. 17. The method as set forth in claim 15 or 16, characterized in that said step of forming said fastener 1 includes a step for providing a radial annular jaw 2a at the top of said cylindrical extension 2, 2 which jaw 2a has a greater diameter than the inner diameter of said first through opening 6a of said first board like member 6 , and in which said step of inserting said cylindrical extension 2, 2 through said first through opening 6a causes radial inward deformation of said deformable portion of said cylindrical extension 2, 2 .

## Description
FASTENERBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates generally to a fastener made of a synthetic resin. More specifically, the invention relates to a resin fastener which is fabricated by way of the so called outsert technique. Throughout the specification, the word outsert is used to identify a molding technique for synthetic resin which has been disclosed in detail in the United States Patent No. 4,158,450, issued on June 19, 1979, to Yutaka SUZUKI and assigned to the common assignee. In general, when two separately prepared members, such as substrates, are to be connected, they are fixed to each other by means of a fastener, or, alternatively, bonded by way of welding or by means of adhesive. When using fasteners such as a fastening screw, nuts and bolts and so fortb, a tighteninc operation is required, which tends to lower the efficiency of assembling the two members. In particular, the need for screw or bolt tightening steps lower efficiency of assembly lines. On the other hand, when the two members are fixed to each other by welding, a specially prepared welding tool or tools are needed.Furthermore, during welding, undesirable gases generated by the heat used for welding tend to pollute the atmosphere. In addition, skilled workers are need to perform welding which further increases production costs. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION Therefore, it is an object of the present invention to provide a novel fastener which is convenient for fixing two members together, such as substrates. Another object of the invention is to provide a structure for fixing two members conveniently and efficiently. A further object of the invention is to provide a process for fixing two members utilizing the fastener prepared according to the present invention. In order to accomplish the aforementioned and other objects , a fastener, according to the present invention, comprises a fastener body made of a synthetic resin. The fastener body is formed in and fixed to a first member to be fixed to a second member by outsert moulding. A cylindrical fastening extension extends from the fastener body, which fastening extension can engage a through opening in the second member. The fastening extension has an axial recess. A cylindrical knock member is formed integrally with the fastener body and extends from the side opposite the side from which the fastening extension extends.The knock member is coaxial with the fastening extension and designed to enter the recess while radially deforming the fastening extension and so depressing its periphery against the inner periphery of the through opening of the second member so as to fix the second member to the first member. Preferably, the knock member is integral with the fastener body and connected to the latter through a relatively thin annular strip section of the fastener body. The annular strip section is designed to break when the head of the knock member is struck so as to force the knock member into the recess. The knock member can have slightly greater diameter than the recess so as to elastically and radially deform the fastening extension in order to establish firm fastening engagement between the fastening extension and the second member. Preferably, the knock member is conical with its larger diameter opposing the end of the recess it will enter. Furthermore, the fastening extension has one or more slits which provide flexibility so that the free end section can be easily depressed by the inner periphery of the through opening of the second member. According to one aspect of the invention, a fastener comprises a first and a second section integrally formed, the first section being engageable to one of the two members and the second section being engageable to the other of the two sections, and at least one of the first and second sections comprising a cylindrical extension radially deformable at least at a portion near one end thereof, the cylindrical extension having an axial opening open at at least one end and a cylindrical member integrally formed the first and second sections and disposed in opposition to the open end of the axial opening, the cylindrical member being connected to the periphery of the open end of the axial opening through a sheer susceptible section which is thin enough to be sheered away by an impact applied to the cylindrical member so as to allow entry of the cylindrical member into the axial opening of the cylindrical extension with resulting radial outward deformation of the deformable portion of the cylindrical extension. In order to accomplish the above mentioned and other objects, a fitting structure for two members employs the fastener as set forth above. The fastener is initially fixed to the first member by outsert molding and loosely engageable to the through opening of the second member. After inserting the fastening extension of the fastener into the through opening, the head of the knock member is struck to force the knock member into the recess. Upon insertion of the knock member, the recess is distended, causing a corresponding expansion of the external diameter of the fastening extension, whereby firm engagement between the fastening extension and the inner periphery of the through opening can be established. According to another aspect of the invention, a fastening structure for the two members, such as substrates, comprises the fastener being initially molded onto the first segment and having a first and a second section, the first section engaging the first segment, and the second section having at least one cylindrical extension with a radially deformable top portion, the cylindrical extension being adapted to pass through a through opening in the second segment and having an axial opening, and the cylindrical extension having an original outer diameter slightly smaller than the inner diameter of the through opening, and a cylindrical knock body integrally formed with the fastener and opposing the axial opening, the cylindrical knock body being conrected to the peripheral portion of the open end of the axial opening by means of a sheer section which is also formed integrally with the fastener and which is sufficiently thin to be easily sheered off by an impact applied to the cylindrical knock body so as to allow the knock body to enter the axial opening with resulting radical outward deformation of the cylindrical extension at least at the radially deformable top portion, the magnitude of radial and outward deformation of the top portion being sufficient to establish firm engagement between the top portion of the cylindrical extension and the inner periphery of the through opening of the second segment. A fastening method for two members to be firmly connected to one another, according to the invention, includes a step of outsert molding a fastener firmly onto the first member, a step of inserting a fastening extension of the fastener into the through opening of the second member, and a step of establishing firm engagement between the through opening and the fastening extension by forcing a tapered or slightly oversized knock member into the recess. According to a further object of the invention, a method for fastening two members comprises steps of forming a first through opening through the first board like member forming a second through opening through the second board like member forming a fastener having a first section engageable with the second board like member and a second section having at least one cylindrical extension radially deformable at least at a portion near one end, the cylindrical extension defining an axial opening with at least one open end and a cylindrical member integrally formed with the first and second sections and disposed in opposition to the open end of the axial opening, the cylindrical member being connected to the peripheral portion of the open end of the axial opening through a sheer section which is thin enough to be sheered off by an impact applied to the cylindrical member, thereby allowing entry of the cylindrical member into the axial opening of the cylindrical extension with resulting radial outward deformation of the deformable portion of the cylindrical extension inserting the cylindrical extension through the first through opening of the first board like member and striking the cylindrical member to cause sheering of the shiring section and forcing entry of the cylindrical member into the axial opening.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS The present invention will be understood more fully from the detailed description given herebelow and from the accompanying drawings of the preferred embodiment of the present invention, which however, should not be taken to limit the invention to the specific embodiment but are for explanation and understanding only. In the drawings Fig. 1 is a cross section through the preferred embodiment of a fastener according to the present invention Fig. 2 is a plan view of the fastener of Fig.1 Fig. 3 is a cross section similar to Fig. 1, but showing the state in which two members are fixed to each other Fig. 4 is a perspective illustration showing application of the preferred embodiment of the fastener to an actual substrate assembly Fig. 5 is a cross section through a modified form of the fastener of Fig. 1 Fig. 6. is a cross section through another modified fastener and Fig. 7 is a cross section through yet another modified fastener.DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT Referring now to the drawings, particularly toFig. 1, the preferred embodiment of a fastener 1 is made of a synthetic resin, such as polyacetal, polypropylene and so forth. In the shown embodiment, the fastener 1 is designed to fix a second substrate 6 of a metal plate to a first substrate 7 of a metal plate. The fastener 1 has a cylindrical fastening extension 2 with a top end with an annular fastening jaw 2a. The fastening jaw 2a has tapered axial ends 2b. The fastening extension 2 dl so has an axial central recess 3 open at its upper end. The fastener 1 also has an essentially disc shaped main body la defining an annular groove lb which firmly engages the inner periphery of a through opening 7a in the first substrate 7. The fastening jaw 2a defines another annular groove lc which engages the inner periphery of a through opening 6a in the second substrate. A plurality of slits 4 through the fastening extension 2 extend radially from the central recess 3.The axial depth of the slits 4 essentially corresponds the axial length of the fastening jaw 2 in order to provide the fastening jaw 2 sufficient flexibility for radial deformation. A knock member 5 of generally conico cylindrical forr and integral with the main body extends from the side of the main body la opposite from the fastening extension 2. The knock member 5 has one end connected to the main body la and having a larger diameter than the other end. The diameter of the knock member 5 is at least near the larger ciameter enc slttsy greater trar the internal aimeter of the central recess 3 at least in the level of the through opening 6a of the second member. As will be apparent from Fig. 1, the knock member 5 is connected to the main body la via an annular connecting section ld The connecting section ld is relatively thin and weak so as to be easily broken by an impact applied to the head of the knock member 5. The fastener 1 is initially fixed to the first substrate 7 by outsert molding. In practice, outsert molding of the fastener 1 is performed by injection molding and other appropriate molding processes. The techniques involved in outsert molding have been disclosed in the aforerentioned United States Patent No.4,158,450. The contents of the above referenced UnitedStates Patent are hereby incorporated by reference for the sake of disclosure. In order to assembly the second substrate 6 to the first substrate 7, the fastening extension 2 is first passed through the through opening 6a of the second substrate. When passing through the opening 6a, the tapered end 2b of the fastening jaw 2a contacts the inner peripheral edge of the opening 6a. This causes radially inward elastic deformation of the fastening extension. This allows the fastening extension 2 to pass through the through opening 6a so that the fastening jaw 2a projects out through the second substrate 6. At this state, the inner periphery of the opening 6a engages the groove lc. At this time, engagement between the outer periphery of the fastening extension 2 and the inner periphery of the through opening 6a is still loose enough to allow relative axial displacement of the first and second substrates 7 and 6. Then, the head of the knock member 5 is struck with an appropriate tool, such as a hammer, with an impact sufficient to break or sheer off the connecting section ld. This impact forces the knock member 5 into the recess 3, which causes radually symmetric distension of the fastening extension. The magnitude of expansion of the diameter of the fastening extension 2 is sufficient to establish firm engagement between the outer periphery of the fastening extension and the groove lc, as shown in Fig. 3. Fig. 4 shows an example of application of the fastener 1 constructed as set forth above, for assembling a substrate e to a. base 7. In the shown example, four fasteners are used to firmly fix the second substrate to the first substrate. Although a specific embodiment has been illustrated to facilitate better understanding of the invention, it would be possible to embody the present invention in various ways and similarly the shown embodiment can be modified in various ways. For example, the fastener can be made of a flexible metal, such as aluminium or the like. In cases where an aluminium fastener is used and electrically conductive substrates are to be connected, an appropriate insulating member may be provided to ensure insulation between the substrates. Also, it would be possible to provide a plurality of fastening extensions and corresponding knock members on a common main body. Furthermore, as shown in Fig. 5, the knock member 5 can be inserted from the top of the fastening extension 2 . In this case, the diameter of the knock member at the end opposing the top of the fastening extension 2 can be slightly smaller than the inner diameter of the through opening 3 and the diameter of the end remote from the top of the fastening extension can be slightly but sufficiently greater than the inner diameter of the through opening 3. Also, as shown inFig. 6, instead of tapering the knock member as set out with respect to the preferred embodiment, a similar effect can be expected by slightly tapering the inner periphery of the receEs or opening 3. In the example shown in Fig. 6, the fastener 1 is made of aluminium and the inner diameter of the recess gradually decreases toward the top. Fig. 7 is a modification of the example shown in Fig. 5. In this modification, a pair of fastening extensions 2a and 2b extend outwards from a plate shaped main body la. The inner diameter of an opening or recess 3a gradually decreases toward the distal ends of the respective fastening extensions 2a and 2b. A knock member 5a has a length corresponding to or slightly shorter than the overall length of the opening 3a. With the construction of Fig. 7, the fastener 1 can be manufactured wholly independently of the members to be connected. Such fasteners may be useful for connecting a variety of members including substrates for electrical circuits. As will be appreciated herefrom, the present invention can be embodied in various ways and thus includes all possible embodiments and modifications to the shown embodiments which do not depart from the principles of the invention set out in the appended claims.