# Cloning and expression of HTLV III DNA

## Claims
Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragsstaaten DE, GB, FR, IT, NL, SE, CH, LI, BE, LU

## Description
This invention is in the fields of molecular biology and virology and in particular relates to human T cell leukemia virus type III HTLV III . The term human T cell leukemia lymphoma virus HTLV refers to a unique family of T cell tropic retroviruses. These viruses play an important role in the pathogenesis of certain T cell neoplasms. There are presently three known types of HTLVs. One subgroup of the family, HTLV type I HTLV I , is linked to the cause of adult T cell leukemia lymphoma ATLL that occurs in certain regions of Japan, the Caribbean and Africa. HTLV type II HTLV II has been isolated from a patient with a T cell variant of hairy cell leukemia. M.Popovic et al., Detection, Isolation, and Continuous Production of Cytopathic Retroviruses HTLV III from Patients with AIDS and Pre AIDS. HTLV type III HTLV III has been isolated from many patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome AIDS . HTLV III refers to prototype virus isolated from AIDS patients. Groups reported to be at greatest risk for AIDS include homosexual or bisexual males intravenous drug users and Haitian immigrants to the United States. Hemophiliacs who receive blood products pooled from donors and recipients of multiple blood transfusions are also at risk. Clinical manifestations of AIDS include severe, unexplained immune deficiency which generally involves a depletion of helper T lymphocytes. These may be accompanied by malignancies and infections. The mortality rate for patients with AIDS is high. A less severe form of AIDS also exists, in which there may be lymphadenopathy and depressed helper T cell counts there is not, however, the devastating illness characteristic of full blown AIDS. There are many individuals, who are classified as having early AIDS pre AIDS , who exhibit these signs. It is not now possible to predict who among then will develop the more serious symptoms. Much of the evidence implicates HTLV III as the etiological agent of the infectious AIDS. First, there is consistent epidemiology greater than 95 of the patients with AIDS have antibodies specific for HTLV III. Second, there has been reproducible identification and isolation of virus in this disease more than 100 variants of HTLV III have been isolated from AIDS patients. Third, there has been transmission of the disease to normal healthy individuals who received blood transfusions from infected blood donors. HTLV III has been shown to share several properties with HTLV I and HTLV II but also to be morphologically, biologically and antigenically distinguishable. R.C. Gallo et al., Frequent Detection and Isolation of Cytopathic Retroviruses HTLV III from Patients with AIDS and At Risk for AIDS. Like the RNA genome of other retroviruses, the RNA genome of HTLV III contains three genes which encode viral proteins 1 the At this time, AIDS is still difficult to diagnose before the onset of clinical manifestations. There is no method presently available for the prevention of the disease. Treatment of those with AIDS is generally not successful and victims succumb to the devastating effects HTLV III has on the body. This invention is based upon applicant s cloning of HTLV III DNA in recombinant vector host systems capable of expressing immunoreactive HTLV III polypeptides. Based on the cloning of HTLV III DNA in systems which express immunoreactive polypeptides, applicant has developed methods useful in the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of AIDS. Applicant has developed methods of detecting HTLV III and antibodies against HTLV III in body fluids e.g., blood, saliva, semen , and methods useful in immunotherapy e.g., vaccination and passive immunization against AIDS . In addition, applicant has developed methods of making HTLV III DNA probes and RNA probes useful in detecting HTLV III in body fluids. Polypeptides encoded by a segment of the HTLV III genome have been produced by these recombinant DNA methods. The polypeptides encoded by a 1.1Kb EcoRI restriction fragment from HTLV III cDNA have been produced. The polypeptides expressed have been isolated. These polypeptides are immunoreactive with sera of patients having AIDS and with antibodies to HTLV III and thus are useful in screening blood and other body fluids for the presence of antibodies against HTLV III. Applicant s invention therefore provides a method not only for diagnosing AIDS, but also for preventing the transmission of the disease to others through blood or blood components harboring HTLV III. The latter is particularly valuable in screening donated blood before it is transfused or used to obtain blood components e.g., Factor VIII for the treatment of hemophilia Factor IX . Applicant s cloning of HTLV III DNA in such recombinant vector host systems also provides the basis for determination of the nucleotide sequence HTLV III DNA. The DNA probes are essentially homologous to the 1.1 Kb EcoRI DNA which is unique to the HTLV III genome. DNA probes provide another method of detecting HTLV III in blood, saliva or other body fluids. RNA probes which contain regions unique to the HTLV III genome can also be formed and used for the detection of HTLV III in body fluids. Figure 1 is a representation of HTLV III DNA. Figure 1a shows sites at which the genome is cut by the restriction enzyme SstI and Figure 1b shows the fragments of HTLV III genome produced through the action of restriction enzymes Kpn, EcoRI and Hind III. Figure 2 is a representation of HTLV III DNA. Figure 2a shows the location of restriction enzyme sites in the genome and Figure 2b shows the location in the HTLV III genome of DNA inserts in open reading frame clones. The and indicate reactivity and lack of reactivity, respectively, of the fusion protein expressed by cells transformed by the ORF vectors with sera of AIDS patients. Figure 3 shows the nucleotide sequence for HTLV III DNA and the predicted amino acid sequence of the four longest open reading frames. Restriction enzyme sites are indicated above the nucleotide sequence. Figure 4 is an immunoblot showing the position on an SDS polyacrylamide gel of HTLV III Figure 5 shows sites at which the genome is cut by the restriction enzyme EcoRI and construction of recombinant plasmids carrying HTLV III DNA. Figure 6 is an immunoblot showing the positions on nitrocellulose blots of peptides produced by bacterial cells transformed by recombinant constructs ompA1 R 6 ompA2 R 7 and ompA3 R 3, into which a 1.1Kb EcoRI HTLV III cDNA restriction fragment had been inserted. Figure 6a shows the nucleotide sequence of the ompA signal peptide and the pertinent region of recombinant plasmids ompA1 R 6 ompA2 R 7 and ompA3 R 3. Figure 7 is an immunoblot showing blocking of reaction between HTLV III antigens and an AIDS serum by lysates of Figure 8 is an immunoblot showing the presence or absence of antibodies against the peptide encoded by the 1.1Kb EcoRI HTLV III restriction fragment of HTLV III cDNA in sera from healthy individuals lanes 1 3 and from AIDS patients lanes 4 11 . Purified HTLV III virus panel A or total cell lysate of bacterial clone ompA1 R 6 O1R6 were reacted with sera samples. Figure 9 represents the open reading frame expression vector pMRIOO having HTLV III DNA. Figure 10 represents lambdaCI HTLV III beta galactosidase fusion proteins. Figure 10a is an immunoblot showing the position on SDS polyacrylamide gel of lambdaCI HTLV III beta galactosidase fusion proteins, and Figure 10b shows the immunoreactivity of such proteins with sera from AIDS patients. Despite the similarity between HTLV III and the other members of the HTLV bovine leukemia virus BLV family of viruses, the biology and pathology of HTLV III differs substantially. For example, relatively little homology has been found in the HTLV III genome when compared with that of the HTLV I or II genome. Infection with HTLV III often results in profound immunosuppression AIDS , consequent to the depletion of the OKT4 cell population. This effect is mirrored by a pronounced cytopathic, rather than transforming, effect of HTLV III infection upon the OKT4 cells in lymphocyte cultures HTLV III also differs from HTLV I and II in the extent of infectious virion production Envelope glycoprotein is the major antigen recognized by the antiserum of AIDS patients. In this respect, HTLV resembles other retroviruses, for which the envelope glycoprotein is typically the most antigenic viral polypeptide. In addition, the neutralizing antibodies are generally directed toward the envelope glycoprotein of the retrovirus. Serum samples from 88 percent to 100 percent of those with AIDS have been shown to have antibodies reactive with antigens of HTLV III the major immune reactivity was directed against p41, the presumed envelope antigen of HTLV III. Antibodies to core proteins have also been demonstrated in serum of AIDS patients, but do not appear to be as effective an indicator of infection as is the presence of antibodies to envelope antigen. The p41 antigen of HTLV III has been difficult to characterize because the viral envelope is partially destroyed during the process of virus inactivation and purification. This invention responds to the great need to characterize this antigenic component of the HTLV III virus and to determine the existence and identity of other viral antigenic components in several ways. It provides products, such as HTLV III polypeptides, antibodies to the polypeptides and RNA and DNA probes, as well as methods for their production. These serve as the basis for screening, diagnostic and therapeutic products and methods. This invention relates to HTLV III polypeptides which are produced by translation of a recombinant DNA sequence encoding HTLV III proteins. Polypeptides which are produced in this way and which are immunoreactive with serum from AIDS patients or antibodies to HTLV III are referred to as recombinant DNA produced immunoreactive HTLV III polypeptides. They include the polypeptides which are produced by the translation of the recombinant DNA sequences included in a 1.1Kb EcoRI restriction fragment of HTLV III cDNA. The polypeptides encoded by this region of the HTLV III can be used in immunochemical assays for detecting antibodies against HTLV III and HTLV VIII infection. These methods can assist in diagnosing AIDS. In addition, they can also be employed to screen blood before it is used for transfusions or for the production of blood components e.g., Factor VIII for the treatment of hemophilia . Availability of screening technics will reduce the risk of AIDS transmission. Detection of antibodies reactive with the polypeptides can be carried out by a number of established methods. For example, an immunoreactive HTLV III polypeptide can be affixed to a solid phase such as polystyrene bead or other solid support . The sold phase is then incubated with blood sample to be tested for antibody against HTLV III. After an appropriate incubation period the solid phase and blood sample are separated. Antibody bound to the solid phase can be detected with labeled polypeptide or with a labeled antibody against human immunoglobulin. The HTLV III polypeptides can be used in a vaccine prevention of AIDS. The polypeptides can also be used to produce antibodies, including monoclonal antibodies, against the HTLV III polypeptides. These antibodies can be used in immunochemical assays for direct detection of the virus in body fluids such as blood, saliva and semen . Assays employing monoclonal antibody against specific HTLV III antigenic determinants will reduce false positive results thereby improving accuracy of assays for the virus. Antibodies against the virus may also be useful in immuno therapy. For example, antibodies may be used to passively immunize against the virus. The methods of producing the polypeptides are also a subject of this invention, as are diagnostic methods based on these polypeptides. Genetic engineering methods are used to isolate a 15Kd peptide encoded by a 1.1Kb EcoRI HTLV III restriction fragment of HTLV III DNA. These methods are also used to sequence the fragments which encode the polypeptides. The proviral genes integrated into host cell DNA are molecularly cloned and the nucleotide sequences of the cloned provirus is determined. An The bacterial vectors contain the lac coding sequences, into which HTLV III DNA can be inserted for the generation of B galactosidase fusion protein. The recombinant vectors are then introduced into bacteria e.g., Bacterial colonies are also screened with HTLV III DNA probes to identify clones containing the DNA region of interest. Clones which are positive when screened with the DNA probe and positive on the MacConkey agar plates are isolated. This identification of cells harboring the HTLV III DNA sequences makes it possible to produce HTLV III polypeptides which are immunoreactive with HTLV III specific antibody. The cells from the selected colonies are grown in culture under conditions allowing the expression of the hybrid protein. Cell protein is then obtained by means known in the art. For example, the culture can be centrifuged and the resulting cell pellet broken. Polypeptides secreted by the host cell can be obtained without disruption of the cells from the cell culture supernatant. The total cellular protein is analysed by being run on an SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The fusion proteins are identified at a position on the gel which contains no other protein. Western blot analyses are also carried out on the clones which screened positive. Such analyses are performed with serum from AIDS patients, with the result that it is possible to identify those clones expressing HTLV III B galactosidase fusion proteins antigens that cross react with the HTLV III specific antibody. Lambda ₁₀ clones harboring HTLV III DNA are cloned from the replicated form of the virus. As the retrovirus is replicating, double stranded DNA is being produced. The cloned HTLV III DNA is digested with the restriction enzyme SstI. Figure 1a Because there are two SstI recognition sites within the LTR of HTLV III DNA, one LTR region is not present in the cloned DNA sequence removed from the lambda₁₀ vector. As a result, a small approximately 200 bp fragment of the HTLV III DNA is missing. The resulting DNA is linearized and fragments are produced by digesting the linearized genomic DNA spanning the The eluted 200 500bp DNA fragments are end filled through the use of The recombinant pMR100 vectors are then introduced into The cells from the selected colonies are grown in culture. The culture is spun down and the cell pellet broken. Total cellular protein is analysed by being run on an SDS polyacrylamide gel. The fusion proteins are identified at a position on the gel which contains no other protein. Figure 4 Western blot analyses are also carried out on the clones which screened positive. Sera from AIDS patients are used, thus making it possible to identify those clones which express the HTLV III B galactosidase fusion proteins that cross react with the HTLV III specific antibody. 1000 clones were screened by this method 6 were positive. Because of the nature of the pMR100 cloning vehicle, a productive DNA insert should also be expressed as a part of a larger fusion polypeptide. HTLV III The open reading frame insert fragment of HTLV III is further analyzed by DNA sequencing analysis. Because one of the two BamHI sites flanking the SmaI cloning site in pMR100 is destroyed in the cloning step, positive clones are digested with restriction enzymes HindIII and claI to liberate the inserted HTLV III DNA fragment. The HTLV III ORF inserts are isolated from the fusion recombinant and cloned into M13 sequencing cloning vector mp18 and mp19 digested with HindIII and AccI. DNA sequences of the positive ORF clones are then determined. Fragments of HTLV III DNA of approximately 200 500 bps are isolated from agarose gel, end repaired with T₄ polymerase and ligated to EcoRI linker. The EcoRI linker ligated DNA is then treated with EcoRI purified from 1 agarose gel and cloned in an expression vector, lambda gt11. This vector contains lac Z gene coding sequences into which the foreign DNA can be inserted for the generation of B galactosidase fusion protein. The expression of the hybrid gene is under the control of lac repressor. The lac repressor gene, lac I, is carried on a separate plasmid pMC9 in the host cell, Recombinant clones that produced strong signals with AIDS serum and contain insert DNA spanning the HTLV III Genetic engineering methods are used to determine the nucleotide sequence of HTLV III DNA. One technique that can be used to determine the sequence is a shotgun random sequencing methods. HTLV III DNA is sheared randomly into fragments of about 300 500 bp in size. The fragments are cloned, for example, using m13, and the colonies screened to identify those having an HTLV III DNA fragment insert. The nucleotide sequence is then generated, with multiple analysis producing overlaps in the sequence. Both strands of the HTLV III DNA are sequenced to determine orientation. Restriction mapping is used to check the sequencing data generated. The nucleotide sequence of one cloned HTLV III genome BH10 is shown in Figure 3, in which the position of sequences encoding Clone HXB2 was derived from a recombinant phage library of DNA sequences which are an entire gene or segment of a gene from HTLV III are inserted into a vector, such as a T7 vector. In this embodiment, the vector has the Tceu promoter from the T cell gene 10 promoter and DNA sequences encoding eleven amino acids from the T cell gene 10 protein. The vectors are then used to transform cells, such as Determination of the nucleotide sequence of HTLV III DNA also provides the basis for the formation of DNA probes. Both RNA probes and DNA HTLV III probes must have the distinctive region of the HTLV III genome in order to be useful in detecting HTLV III in body fluids. There is relatively little homology between the HTLV III genome and the HTLV I and II genomes and probes contain regions which are unique to HTLV III i.e., not shared with HTLV I or II . Either viral RNA or DNA can be used for detecting HTLV III in, for example, saliva, which is known to have a very high concentration of the virus. This can be done, for example, by means of a dot blot, in which the saliva sample is denatured, blotted onto paper and then screened using either type of probe. If saliva is used as the test fluid, detection of HTLV III is considerable faster and easier than is the case if blood is tested. Monoclonal antibodies reactive with HTLV III polypeptides are produced by antibody producing cell lines. The antibody producing cell lines may be hybridoma cell lines commonly known as hybridomas. The hybrid cells are formed by fusion of cells which produce antibody to HTLV III polypeptide and an immortalizing cell, that is, a cell which imparts long term tissue culture stability on the hybrid cell. In the formation of the hybrid cell lines, the first fusion partner the antibody producing cell can be a spleen cell of an animal immunized against HTLV III polypeptide. Alternatively, the antibody producing cell can be isolated B lymphocyte which produces antibody against an HTLV III antigen. The lymphocyte can be obtained from the spleen, peripheral blood, lymph nodes or other tissue. The second fusion partner the immortal cell can be a lymphoblastoid cell or a plasmacytoma cell such as a myeloma cell, itself an antibody producing cell but also malignant. Murine hybridomas which produce monoclonal antibodies against HTLV III polypeptide are formed by the fusion of mouse myeloma cells and spleen cells from mice immunized against the polypeptide. To immunize the mice, a variety of different immunization protocols may be followed. For instance mice may receive primary and boosting immunizations of the purified polypeptide. The fusions are accomplished by standard procedures. Kohler and Milstein, 1975 The hybridomas are then screened for production of antibody reactive with the polypeptide. This can be performed by screening procedures known in the art. Another way of forming the antibody producing cell line is by transformation of antibody producing cells. For example, a B lymphocyte obtained from an animal immunized against HTLV III polypeptide may be infected and transformeed with a virus such as the Epstein Barr virus in the case of human B lymphocytes to give an immortal antibody producing cell. See, e.g., Kozbor and Rodor 1983 The monoclonal antibodies against HTLV III polypeptide can be produced in large quantities by injecting antibody producing hybridomas into the peritoneal cavity of mice and, after an appropriate time, harvesting the ascites fluid which contains very high titer of homogenous antibody and isolating the monoclonal antibodies therefrom. Xenogeneic hybridomas should be injected into irradiated or athymic nude mice. Alternatively, the antibodies may be produced by culturing cells which produce HTLV III polypeptide This invention will now be further illustrated by the following examples. 10 ug of gel purified HTLV III restriction fragments were sonicated to fragment size on average of 500 bps. After sonication, the DNA was passed through a DEAE cellulose column in 0.1XTBE in order to reduce the volume. The DEAE bound DNA was washed with 5 ml of 0.2 M NaCl TE 2 M NaCl, 10 mm Tris HCl pH 7.5, 1 mM EDTA and then eluted with 1 M NaCl TE, and ethanol precipitated. The size range of the sonicated DNA was then determined on 1.2 agarose gel. DNA fragments of desired length 200 500 bps was eluted from the gel. T4 DNA polymerase was used to fill in and or trim the single strand DNA termini generated by the sonication procedure. DNA fragments were incubated with T4 polymerase in the absence of added nucleotides for five minutes at 37 C to remove nucleotides from 3 end and then all 4 nucleotide precursors were added to a final concentration of 100 uM and the reaction mixture was incubated another 30 minutes to repair the 5 end single stranded overhang. The reaction was stopped by heat inactivation of the enzyme at 68 C for 10 minutes. DNA was phenol extracted once, ethanol precipitated and resuspended in TE. The sonicated blunt end repaired HTLV III DNA fragments were ligated into the SmaI site of the ORF expression vector pMR100 and transformed into host cell LG90 using standard transformation procedures. B galactosidase positive phenotype of the transformant were identified by plating the transformed cell on ampicillin 25 ug ml containing McConkey agar plates and scoring the phenotype after 20 hours at 37 C. Ten milliliter samples of cells from an overnight saturated culture grown in L broth containing ampicillin 25 ug ml were centrifuged, the cell pellet was resuspended in 500 ul of 1.2 fold concentrated Laemmli sample buffer. The cells were resuspended by vortexing and boiling for 3 minutes at 100 C. The lysate was then repeated by being forced through a 22 guage needle to reduce the lysate viscosity. Approximately 10 ul of the protein samples were electrophoresed in 7.5 SDS PAGE SDS polyacrylamide gels. Electrophoretic transfer of proteins from SDS PAGE gels to nitrocellulose paper was carried out according to Towbin To visualize antigen antibody interactions, the nitrocellulose was then incubated with the second goat antihuman antibody that had been iodinated with ¹²⁵I. The reaction with the iodinated antibody was carried out at room temperature for 30 minutes in the same milk buffer as was used for the first antibody. The nitrocellulose was then washed as previously described and exposed at 70 C using Kodak XAR5 film with an intensifying screen. The DNA fragment was in general excised by restriction endonuclease digestion, gel purified, and ³²P labeled to a specific activity of 0.5x10⁸ cpm ug by nick translation Rigby, P.W.J. An expression vector, pIN III ompA ompA was used. ompA has the lipoprotein the most abundant protein in Various restriction fragments were excised from the recombinant clone, lambdaBH10, which contains a 9 Kb long HTLV III DNA insert in the SstI site of the vector lambdagtWES lambdaB. These restriction fragments were them inserted into the ompA vectors at all three reading frames and used to transform Several gene segments that encode peptides shoring immunoreactivity with anti HTLV III antibodies were demonstrated. Among these is a 1.1 Kb EcoRI restriction fragment. This fragment was inserted into ompA vectors in all three reading frames Figure 5 . Cells were grown at 37 C in L broth containing 100mg ml. ampicillin to an DNA sequence data of the HTLV III genome indicates that there is an open reading frame inside the There is a 6 bp ribosome binding site, AAGGAG Shine Dalgarno sequence , located at nucleotide position 24 29 and an initiation codon, ATG, located 11 bp downstream position 41 43 . The 15 Kd peptide synthesized by all three recombinants appears to be translated from the transcripts using this internal initiation codon. If this is true, the peptide starts from the ATG located at position 41 43 and ends at the stop codon at position 446 448, producing a peptide of 135 amino acid residues encoded by the 3 end segment of the In addition to the 15 Kd peptide, the O3R3 construct, in which the reading frame of the HTLV III DNA The O1R6 and O2R7 constructs also produces another peptide of about 17.5 Kd Figure 6 and weakly reactive with sera of AIDS patients. The origin of this peptide is not clear. The 1.1 Kb EcoRI fragment contains a second potential coding region designated as the short open reading frame SOR extending from nucleotide position 360 to 965 Figure 5 . Four of the five AUG methionine codons in this region are near the 5 end of this open reading frame. This DNA segment could encode peptides of 192, 185, 177 or 164 amino acid residues. However, there is no clearly recognizable ribosome binding site at the 5 end of this open reading frame. Further evidence also supports the conclusion that the 15 Kd peptide is indeed derived from the Significant immunoreactivity against the 15 Kd peptide derived from the viral The prevalence in the sera of AIDS patients of antibodies against the 15 Kd peptide was also evaluated. In Western blot analysis employing the lysate of O1R6 as the source of antigen, a panel of coded sera from AIDS patients and normal healthy individuals was tested. All of the 20 AIDS sera and none of the 8 normal controls reacted with the 15 Kd peptide. Representative results are shown in Figure 8 . These data indicate that most, if not all, AIDS patients produce antibodies against the viral p31 protein.