# Aligement bolt assembly and method of maintaining parts in assembled alignment utilizing such assembly.

## Abstract
A bolt assembly 16 for a connecting rod or other machine parts, and method of using the bolt assembly as well as the improved connecting rod or other machine parts resulting therefrom are disclosed. The bolt assembly in cludes a bolt having a head portion 40 , a threaded end portion 42 , a shank portion 44 between the head portion and the threaded end portion and a spring pin 46 surround ing the shank portion. The spring pin is generally tubular with a slot 48 extending the full length thereof, and is desirably held captive on the shank portion. When assem bled, the spring pin 46 presses tightly against a bore through one part and also against a coaxial bore or counterbore formed in another part so as to maintain the parts in accurate alignment. The spring pin may have a length greater than the depth of the bore through the one part and less than the combined depth of the bore through the one part and bore or counterbore in the other part so that it is assured that the spring pin crosses the parting line between the two parts when the bolt is tightened to the desired extent. Alternatively, the length of the spring pin 46 could be reduced by captivating the spring pin in a desired location along the length of the shank portion 44 .

## Claims
What is claimed is 1. An assembly 10 comprising first and second parts 12, 14 , bolt assemblies 16 securing said parts together, bores 26 through one of and additional bores 28 through the other of said parts, the associated bores and additional bores in said parts being of equal diameter and being aligned when said parts are aligned, characterized by a slotted spring pin 46 compressable to the diameter of the bores 26 and additional bores 28 and insertable therein for maintaining said parts 12, 14 in alignment, and a bolt 16 extending through said spring pin 46 . 2. The assembly of claim 1 wherein each said bolt includes a head portion 40 , a threaded end portion 42 , and a shank portion 44 between said head and threaded end portions, further characterized by means 40, 42, or 82, 84 for captivating said spring pin 46 on said bolt 16 . 3. The assembly of claim 2 further characterized in that said means for captivating includes ridge means 82 on said shank portion 74 adjacent one end of said spring pin 76 which has an outside diameter greater than the inside diameter of said spring pin 76 and less than the outside diameter of said spring pin t76 . 4. The assembly of claim 2 further characterized in that said means for captivating comprises ridge means 82, 84 on said shank portion 74 adjacent opposite ends of said spring pin 76 which have an outside diameter greater than the inside diameter of said spring pin and less than the outside diameter of said spring pin 76 . 5. The assembly of claim 1 further characterized in that said spring pin 46 has an axial length greater than the depth of the bore 26 in one of said parts 14 and less than the combined depth of the associated bores 26, 28 in both of said parts 14, 12 . 6. The assembly of claim 5 wherein each said bolt includes a head portion 40 , a threaded end portion 42 and a reduced diameter shank portion 44 between the head and threaded end portions, further characterized in that said spring pin 46 has an internal diameter greater than the outside diameter of said shank portion 44 and less than the outside diameter of said threaded end portion 42 and having an external diameter greater than the outside diameter of said threaded end portion 44 whereby the bolt is rotatable within a respective spring pin 46 . 7. A bolt assembly 16 for use in maintaining two or more parts 12, 14 in assembled aligned relationship comprising a bolt having a head portion 40 , a threaded end portion 42 , and a shank portion 44 between said head and threaded end portion, characterized by a slotted spring pin 46 surrounding said shank portion 44 , and means 40, 42 or 82, 84 for captivating said spring pin 46 on said shank portion 44 . 8. The assembly of claim 7 further characterized in that said means for captivating includes ridge means 82 on said shank portion 74 adjacent one end of said spring pin 76 which has an outer diameter greater than the internal diameter of said spring pin 76 . 9. The assembly of claim 7 further characterized in that said means for captivating comprises ridge means 82, 84 on said shank portion 74 adjacent opposite ends of said spring pin 76 which have an outer diameter greater than the internal diameter of said spring pin 76 . 10. The assembly of claim 8 further characterized in that said spring pin 100 has an inturned end 101 to permit captivating said spring pin on said bolt utilizing smaller ridge means 82 .

## Description
ALIGNMENT BOLT ASSEMBLY AND METHOD OF MAINTAINING PARTS IN ASSEMBLED ALIGNMENT UTILIZING SUCH ASSEMBLY The present invention relates to alignment bolt assemblies for use in maintaining two or more parts in alignment with each other and to the method of assembling such parts using such bolt assemblies. Although the present application shows such bolt assemblies being used with connecting rods, it will be appreciated that such assemblies may be utilized as a relatively inexpensive all purpose alignment device in almost any application in which two or more parts must be maintained in alignment. Additional examples of that would be where the head of a blower, hydraulic pump, or engine must be oriented to the cylinder block also where an overhead cam of an engine must be oriented to the cylinder head. Such parts including connecting rods for use in internal combustion engines require precision machining. The bearings in connecting rods, for example, are subjected to very large loads, and this has necessitated that the loads be distributed evenly over the available bearing surface.If the bearing for any reason is uneven, oil which normally lubricates the bearing surface may be wiped away causing premature failure, which is expensive and difficult to repair. In connecting rods the small end bearing has traditionally been pressed into place while the big end bearing is made of two semicircular bearing inserts. One of the bearing inserts fits against a surface on the connecting rod while the other fits against a surface on the bearing cap. In order to assure that the bearing inserts are accurately aligned with each other, it is necessary that the corresponding surfaces of the connecting rod and bearing cap are also accurately machined. To this end, the usual manufacturing procedure for a connecting rod of the type described is to machine parting surfaces on the connecting rod and bearing cap. These pieces are then clamped into position and the bearing support surfaces against which the bearing inserts abut are machined simultaneously.The bearing cap and connecting rod are then disassembled, the bearing inserts put in place, and the entire assembly is then reassembled around a crank pin of a crankshaft. It is important that when the connecting rod and bearing cap are assembled with bearing inserts in place the bearing support surfaces reassume the alignment established when these surfaces were originally machined. To achieve this goal alignment holes have been bored through the bearing cap across the parting line and part way through the connecting rod to form a counterbore in the connecting rod. Threads are formed at the inner end of each counterbore in the connecting rod to receive the bolts which hold the bearing cap to the connecting rod. The boring and threading takes place while the connecting rod and bearing cap are still clamped together for machining of the bearing support surfaces.Upon reassembly of the connecting rod and bearing cap, proper alignment of the bores through the bearing cap with the counterbores in the connecting rod assures proper alignment of the bearing support surface. Special bolts have been used to try to achieve such alignment of the bores with corresponding counterbores. One such special bolt has an enlarged knurled portion spanning the parting line between the bearing cap and connecting rod. The enlarged knurled portion is precisely machined to have a diameter very nearly the same as that of the bores and counterbores in the bearing cap and connecting rod, respectively, so that the alignment passages are correctly located. One disadvantage of the knurled bolt technique is that it is difficult and expensive to manufacture. Specifically, the knurled bolt requires that the knurled portion be larger in diameter than the balanee of the bolt and that this enlarged knurled area be exactly concentric with the threaded portion of the bolt. Such accurate concentricity has been difficult to maintain. Another difficulty with the enlarged knurled type connecting rod bolt has been the fact that some tolerance must be left between the alignment holes and the enlarged knurled portion of the bolt. This means that some misalignment of the bearing cap and connecting rod is still possible. A further disadvantage of the knurled bolt for aligning bearing caps and connecting rods lies in the fact that the knurling must permit the bolt to be rotated, and therefore, it cannot be a press or snug fit in the alignment passages. Another technique which has been used to maintain correct alignment between a bearing cap and connecting rod, especially in diesel engines, is to machine counterbores inward from the parting surface both of the connecting rod and of the bearing cap, insert a rigid tubular alignment insert into the counterbores, and then assemble the bolt through this insert. A disadvantage to using the tubular alignment insert resides in the difficulty and cost of manufacture. Specifically, the alignment insert must be made to be a slight interference fit with at least one of the counterbores. This requires extremely accurate machining of the counterbores and the outside diameter of the tubular insert itself. Manufacturing tolerances must be very tight so that the cumulative error which would arise from a slightly undersized insert being matched with slightly oversized counterbore leaves the alignment of bearing cap and connecting rod still within acceptable limits. The present invention overcomes the disadvantages of the prior art by greatly reducing the cost of maintaining two or more parts in accurate alignment. In one form of the invention, this is accomplished by means of a bolt assembly which includes a bolt having a conventional head end portion, a threaded end portion, and a reduced diameter shank portion between the head and threaded end portions. A slotted spring pin surrounds the shank portion and is held captive there as by the head of the bolt at one end and the larger diameter of the threads at the other end. The outside diameter of the spring pin is larger than the outside diameter of the threads.When the bolt assembly of the present invention is inserted into alignment passages, i.e., a through bore through a bearing cap and a matching bore or counterbore in a connecting rod, the spring pin is slightly compressed and tightly grips both bores or the bore and counterbore. The resiliency of the spring pin assures that the bores or bore and counterbore are kept in perfect alignment. The bolt assembly of the present invention may be manufactured using simple manufacturing techniques. The spring pin is preferably made of steel which may be sheared in conventional manner. As will become apparent from what follows, the shearing produces beveled surfaces around the perimeter of the pin which facilitate inserting the bolt assembly through the parts. When the spring pin has been formed, it is placed over a bolt blank which has a head portion already formed, and an elongated shank of uniform diameter. The spring pin has a length less than that of the shank, whereby threads may be rolled onto the exposed end portion of the bolt shank. The rolling operation of the threads deforms the blank material radially outwardly until its diameter is greater than the inside diameter of the spring pin.This effectively captures the spring pin on the bolt blank forming the bolt assembly of the present invention. Alternatively, the maximum diameter of the threads could be the same as the bolt shank, in which event the spring pin would either not be captivated on the bolt shank, or some other means would have to be provided for that purpose, for example, a ridge could be rolled on the shank inwardly of the threads to captivate the spring pin between the bolt head and ridge. This may be preferable to using the threads to captivate the spring pin on the shank even when the threads are of a larger diameter than the bolt shank, to ensure that the threads are not damaged by the spring pin during removal of the bolt assembly from the aligned parts. Also, two ridges could be rolled on the shank, one adjacent each end of the spring pin, which would permit the spring pin to be captivated anywhere along the length of the bolt shank. This would be particularly advantageous in an application where the bolt shank is required to be relatively long and the spring pin need only be of a relatively short length but its location is critical. In the attached drawings Fig. 1 is a side view, partially cut away, of a preferred form of alignment bolt assembly constructed in accordance with the present invefi tion shown being used to maintain a bearing cap in alignment with a connecting rod Fig. 2 is an exploded view, partially cut away, of the connecting rod assembly and bolt assembly of Fig. 1 Fig. 3 is an enlarged side view of one of the bolt assemblies ofFigs. 1 and 2 Fig. 4 is a cross section view, further enlarged, through the bolt assembly of Fig. 3 looking in the direction of arrows 4 4 of Fig. 3 Fig. 5 is an exploded view of a bolt blank and spring pin used in forming the bolt assembly of Fig. 3 Fig. 6 is an enlarged side view of an alternative form of spring pin Fig. 7 is an enlarged side view, partially cut away, of an alternative form of alignment bolt assembly in accordance with this invention Fig. 8 is an enlarged side view, partially cut away, of still another form of alignment bolt assembly in accordance with this invention and Fig. 9 is an enlarged side view, partially cut away, of yet another form of alignment bolt assembly in accordance with this invention. The connecting rod assembly 10 shown in Figs. 1 and 2 by way of example includes a connecting rod 12, a bearing cap 14 and a pair of bolt assemblies 16 securing the bearing cap to the connecting rod. The connecting rod 12 and bearing cap 14 include semicylindrical bearing support surfaces 22 and 24, respectively, which are adapted to abut and support a conventional bearing insert. As is common, the surfaces 22 and 24 may be machined simultaneously by fixedly positioning the bearing cap 14 with respect to the connecting rod 12 and then machining a cylindrical passage through these two pieces. Once the bearing support surfaces 22 and 24 have been machined, the bearing cap 14 is removed from the connecting rod 12 and bearing inserts not shown may be positioned, one on the connecting rod and the other on the bearing cap.Thereafter, the bearing cap with its insert may be reassembled with the connecting rod and its insert around the crank pin of a crankshaft. It is important to the smooth and long lasting operation of the connecting rod 12 and the bearing inserts that the bearing cap 14 be reattached to the connecting rod 12 in precisely the same position which it had during machining of the semicylindrical bearing support surfaces 22 and 24. If the bearing cap is slightly out of alignment, one portion of the bearing may act as a wiper and remove necessary lubricaing oil from the surface of the crankshaft resulting in heat build up, premature wear of the components, and possibly catastrophic failure. In order to maintain precise alignment of the bearing cap 14 and connecting rod 12, through bores 26 Fig. 2 are formed through opposite sides of the bearing cap 14, and matching bores or counterbores 28 are formed in the adjacent surfaces of the connecting rod 12 in alignment with the bores 26 and of the same diameter as the bores 26. Although only the bore 26 and counterbore 28 on the left side of the connecting rod assembly 10 are shown in the drawings, it will be readily understood by those skilled in the art that a similar bore and counterbore are formed on the right side. At the end of each counterbore 28 opposite each bore 26 is a threaded passage 36 having a diameter somewhat smaller than the counterbore 28.Alternatively, the through bores 26 may be provided in the connecting rod 12 and counterbores 28 and threaded passages 36 in the bearing cap 14 if desired.Also, the counterbores 28 could be through bores and nuts provided on the ends of the bolt assemblies rather than providing threaded passages 36 therefor if desired. Each bore 26 extends from the outside surface 30 of the bearing cap 14 through to the parting surface 32 of the bearing cap. When assembled for the machining of the bearing insert surfaces 22 and 24, the bore or counterbore 28 in the connecting rod 12 forms a continuation of the respective bore 26. Where a counterbore 28 is provided, each counterbore extends inward from the parting surface 34 of the connecting rod, and terminates in a threaded passage 36 which is coaxial therewith and extends all the way through the connecting rod 12. The bores 26, counterbores 28 and threaded passages 36 may all be formed while the connecting rod 12 and bearing cap 14 are clamped rigidly in place for the machining of the semicylindrical bearing support surfaces 22 and 24. The bolt assembly 16 preferably includes a conventional head portion 40 Fig. 3 , and a threaded end portion 42 at the end opposite the head portion. Intermediate the ends of the bolt assembly is a reduced diameter shank portion 44 extending coaxially between the head portion and threaded end portion. A spring pin 46 surrounds the reduced diameter shank portion 44 of the bolt assembly 16. The spring pin 46 is desirably formed of a relatively stiff resilient material such as spring steel, and is generally tubular with an axially extending slot 48 through the wall of the spring pin and running the entire length thereof. Alternatively, for certain applications, the spring pin 46 could be made of a suitably stiff but resilient plastics material.Also, instead of making the slot 48 straight as shown inFigs. 3 and 4, a spiral slot 49 could be provided in the spring pin 50 as shown in Fig. 6 if desired. The threaded end portion 42 of the bolt assembly 16 shown inFigs. 3 and 4 has a maximum outside diameter D3 which is somewhat greater than the inside diameter D1 of the spring pin 46. Also, the bolt head 40 is larger than the outside diameter D4 of the spring pin. Accordingly, the spring pin 46 is held captive on the reduced diameter shank portion 44 by the head 40 and threaded end portion 42. Also, the spring pin 46 has an inside diameter D1 Fig. 4 which is slightly larger than the outside diameter D2 of the shank portion 44 so that the spring pin 46 is rotatable about the shank portion 44. Alternatively, the maximum diameter of the threaded end portion 42 could be the same as that of the shank portion 44, in which event the spring pin 46 would either not be captivated on the bolt assembly or some other means would have to be provided for that purpose. In the alignment bolt assembly 70 shown in Fig. 7, the threaded end portion 72has the same outside diameter as the shank portion 74. To captivate the spring pin 76 on the shank portion 74, a ridge 78 may be rolled on the shank portion axially inwardly of the threaded end portion 72. In that instance, the spring pin 76 will be captivated between the bolt head 79 and ridge 78. Also, an additional ridge 80 may be rolled on the shank portion adjacent the opposite end of the spring pin 76 to captivate the spring pin between the ridges 78, 80 which may be located anywhere along the length of the shank portion. This would be particularly advantageous in an application where the shank portion 74 is required to be relatively long and the spring pin 76 need only be of a relatively short length but its location along the length of the shank portion is critical. The end faces 82, 84 of the ridges 78, 80 which face the adjacent ends of the spring pin 76 desirably extend substantially perpendicular from the shank portion 74 to provide positive mechanical stop shoulders preventing the spring pin from being inadvertently disassembled from the bolt assembly.As shown, the outside diameter of the ridges 78, 80 is greater than the inside diameter of the spring pin 76 and less than the outside diameter of the spring pin. Even where the maximum diameter of the threaded end portion 90 of the bolt assembly 92 is made greater than the shank portion 94 as shown in Fig. 8, it may be desirable to roll a ridge 96 on the shank portion inwardly of the threads 90 to captivate the spring pin 98 on the shank, so that the spring pin does not damage the threads during removal of the bolt assembly from the aligned parts. In that instance, the outside diameter of the ridge 96 is desirably formed to be approximately the same as the maximum diameter of the enlarged threaded end portion 90 and in any event less than the outside diameter of the spring pin and greater than the inside diameter of the spring pin. Also, sufficient clearance is desirably provided between the adjacent ends of the spring pin 98 and ridge 96 to permit outward displacement of metal from the shank 94 fro n opposite sides of the ridge during its formation as further shown in Fig. 8 to reduce the amount of metal that would otherwise have to be pushed out from one side only to form the ridge as shown in Fig. 7. This reduces the depth of the ridge grooves 99 adjacent opposite sides of the ridge 96 for increased strength. The outer diameter of the enlarged threaded portion 100 or ridges 102, 104 could be made smaller and still captivate the spring pin 106 on the bolt assembly 108 by providing an inturned end 110 on one or both ends of the spring pin 106 as further shown in Fig. 9. When the bolt assembly 16 or 70 or 92 or 108 is inserted into bore 26, the threaded end portion 42 or 72 or 90 or 100 of the bolt assembly clears the bore 26 because the threaded end portion 42 has a smaller diameter. However, the outside diameter of the spring sleeve 46 or 76 or 98 or 106 is slightly larger than the inside diameter of the bore 26.Therefore the spring sleeve 46 must be slightly diametrically compressed in order to fit into the bore 26. To facilitate inserting the spring pin 46 or 76 or 98 or 106 into the bore 26, the spring pin 46 may be provided with a beveled leading edge 56 which may be conveniently formed either by a grinding or machining operation or simply by the shearing process which cuts the spring material of which the spring pin 46 is made. As the spring pin 46 is compressed radially and forced into the bore 26, the edges 58 of the spring pin slot 48 move slightly closer together. The bolt assembly is inserted through the bore 26 and into the bore or counterbore 28, which is of the same diameter as the bore 26 and slightly greater than the threaded end portion 42 or 72 or 90 or 100 .Thereafter, the threaded end portion 42 of the bolt assembly may be screwed into the threaded passage 36 in the connecting rod, or if the bore 28 extends all the way through, a nut may be threaded onto the protruding threaded end portion of the bolt assembly, and the head portion 40 may be tightened to the desired tightness. As the bolt assembly is tightened, the head portion 40 bears against the outer end 60 of the spring pin 46 or 76 or 98 or 106 and forces the spring pin into the bore or counterbore 28. The spring pin 46 is longer than the length of the bore 26 but somewhat shorter than the combined lengths of the bore 26 and bore or counterbore 28 so that as the bolt assembly is tightened into place, of necessity, the portion of the spring pin 46 closest to the threaded end portion 42 of the bolt assembly extends across the parting surfaces 32 and 34 and is received in the bore or counterbore 28. This assures that the spring pin 46 will operate to align the bore 26 and bore or counterbore 28 and therefore the bearing support surfaces 24 and 22 on the bearing cap 14 and connecting rod 12, respectively.Alternatively, the length of the spring pin could be reduced by captivating the spring pin in a desired location along the length of the shaft portion of the bolt in the manner previously described. The bolt assembly may be formed using conventional techniques from a bolt blank 62 Fig. 5 which has a conventional head portion 40 already formed and a shank 64 of uniform diameter. The shank 64 has the same diameter as the reduced diameter shank portion 44 Fig. 3 of the finished bolt assembly. The spring pin 46 Fig. 5 may be inserted onto the shank 64 so that the end portion 60 abuts the head portion 40 leaving the distal end portion of the shank 64 exposed for the rolling of threads thereon to form the threaded end portion 42. This displaces some material of the shank 64 radially outward until the threaded end portion has a diameter larger than the inside diameter of the spring pin 46, thus capturing the spring pin 46 on the bolt assembly.The threaded end portion 72 shown inFig. 7 may be cut into the shank portion 74, so that the threaded end portion has the same outside diameter as the shank portion, or the threaded end portion 90 may have a larger diameter than the shank portion 94 as shown inPig. 8. After the spring pin 76 or 98 is inserted onto the shank portion, the ridges 78 and or 80 and 96 may be rolled on the shank portion adjacent one or both ends of the spring pin to captivate the spring pin on the shank portion. Several advantages fro n this construction are readily apparent.The resilient spring pin 46 or 76 or 98 or 106 tightly engages the bore 26 and bore or counterbore 28 thus assuring good alignment of the bearing support surfaces. The diameters of the bores or bore and counterbore need not be held to as close a tolerance as would otherwise be required since the spring pin 46 or 76 or 98 or 106 is resilient and can accommodate some variation. The only necessary element of sizing the bore 26 and bore or counterbore 28 is that they be of substantially the same diameter, which diameter is slightly smaller than the outside diameter of the spring pin 46. However, this condition is easily achieved by forming both the bore 26 and bore or counterbore 28 at the same time using the same drill bit or other cutting tool. Also, because the spring pin 46 or 76 or 98 or 106 is captured on the bolt assembly and the bolt is rotatable independently of the spring pin, the threaded end portion 42 or 72 or 90 or 100 need not be made precisely concentric with the shank portion 44 or 74 or 94 , thus reducing the cost of manufacturing. Moreover, once the bolt assemblies are inserted into the bores 26 in the bearing cap 14 or other part, the spring pin 46 or 76 or 98 or 106 holds them in place, which speeds assembly.As a result of using the bolt assemblies together with bores 26 and bores or counterbores 28, the connecting rod assembly 10 or other parts are more readily assembled than before, and accurate alignment of the bearing support surfaces 22 and 24 is assured. From the foregoing, it is apparent that the present invention overcomes the disadvantages of the prior art by greatly reducing the cost of maintaining the bearing cap 14 or other part in accurate alignment with the connecting rod 12 or another part. This is accomplished by means of a bolt assembly which includes a bolt having a conventional head end portion1 a threaded end portion, and a shank portion between the head and threaded end portions. A spring pin surrounds the shank portion and is held captive there by the head of the bolt at one end and larger diameter threads at the other end, or by one or more ridges on the shank portion adjacent one or both ends of the spring pin. Although the inside diameter D1 of the spring pin shown in Figs. 2 and 3 is smaller than the inside diameter of the enlarged threaded end portion, the outside diameter of the spring pin is larger than the outside diameter of the threads. The same is true of the Fig. 8 embodiment. When the bolt assembly of the present invention is inserted into alignment passages, i.e., through bore 26 through bearing cap 14 and bore or counterbore 28 in connecting rod 12, the spring pin 46 or 76 or 98 or 106 is slightly compressed and tightly grips both the bore and bore or counterbore.The resiliency of the spring material assures that the bore 26 and bore or counterbore 28 are kept in perfect alignment.