# SYNTHESIS OF A CRYSTALLINE SILICOALUMINOPHOSPHATE

## Abstract
A method for the synthesis of the silicoaluminophosphate SAPO 37 comprises preparing a two phase reaction mixture containing the required starting materials divided between a liquid organic phase and a liquid aqueous phase. The reaction mixture is then heated at a rate of from 5 C to 200 C per hour to a temperature of from 80 C to 200 , while being agitated in a manner sufficient to intimately admix the liquid organic and aqueous phases. Once nucleation of the silicoaluminophosphate occurs the agitated reaction mixture is heated at rate of from 5 C to 200 C per hour to a temperature of from 100 C to 300 and maintained then at the higher temperature and at a pH of from 2 to 9 until crystals of the desired silicoaluminophosphate are formed.

## Claims
1. A method for synthesizing a crystalline material comprising silicon, phosphorus and aluminum and exhibiting a characteristic X ray diffraction pattern as shown in Table I of the specification which comprises

## Description
This invention relates to an improved method for preparing the crystalline silicoaluminophosphate SAPO 37, whereby synthesis is facilitated and the product exhibits high purity and catalytic utility. Silicoaluminophosphate SAPO 37 and its conventional method of preparation are taught by U.S. Patent 4,440,871. SAPO 37 has a faujasite type structure. According to the present invention, there is provided a method for synthesizing a crystalline material comprising silicon, phosphorus and aluminum and exhibiting a characteristic X ray diffraction pattern as shown in Table I of the specification which comprises The improved method of this invention provides an increase in yield of about 200 over the SAPO 37 preparation method taught in U.S. Patent 4,440,871. It also offers a reproducible method for making SAPO 37 with higher cation exchange capacity for identical silicon content and a higher number of total cation exchange sites. The crystalline material produced by this method is characterized by a composition in which the number of atoms of aluminum and phosphorus is greater than the number of atoms of silicon, i.e. Al P greater than Si. As synthesized, the characteristic composition for such material, in the anhydrous state, is as follows In the above composition, when x is greater than y, the silicoaluminophosphate is a cation exchanger with potential use as an acidic catalyst. When x is less than y, the silicoaluminophosphate is an anion exchanger with potential use as a basic catalyst. In any event, the silicoaluminophosphate will exhibit an ion exchange capacity of at least about 0.05 meq g higher than that of conventional SAPO 37 with identical framework composition prepared as taught in U.S. Patent 4,440,871 , making it attractive for use as a catalyst support. The composition of the silicoaluminophosphate in the anhydrous state with organic material removed, and with M, m, N, n, x and y as above defined, is as follows The SAPO 37 prepared hereby is a molecular sieve and possesses a definite distinguishing crystalline structure which exhibits a characteristic X ray powder diffraction pattern as detailed in Table 1. These X ray diffraction data were collected with a Rigaku X ray system, using copper K alpha radiation. The positions of the peaks, expressed in degrees 2 theta, where theta is the Bragg angle, were determined by step scanning at 0.02 degrees of 2 theta intervals and a counting time of 1 second for each step. The interplanar spaces, d, measured in Angstrom units A , and the relative intensities of the lines, I I₀, where I₀ is one hundredth of the intensity of the strongest line, including substraction of the background, were derived with the use of a profile fitting routine. The relative intensities are given in terms of the symbols vs very strong 75 100 , s strong 50 74 , m medium 25 49 and w weak 0 24 . It should be understood that this X ray diffraction pattern is characteristic of all the species of SAPO 37 compositions synthesized by the present invention. Ion exchange of cations with other ions results in a silicoaluminophosphate which reveals substantially the same X ray diffraction pattern with some minor shifts in interplanar spacing and variations in relative intensity. Other variations can occur, depending on the silicon aluminum and phosphorus aluminum ratios of the particular sample, as well as its degree of thermal treatment. If synthesized with an aluminum phosphorus atomic ratio of greater than one, the crystalline silicoaluminophosphate will exhibit an aluminum silicon atomic ratio of greater than 1.5, and usually in the range of from 1.6 to 600. When the aluminum phosphorus ratio is of less than one, the phosphorus silicon atomic ratio of the silicophosphoaluminate is greater than unity, usually within the range of from 1.2 to 600. The present method uses a two phase synthesis reaction mixture, which enables the retention in solution in the organic phase one or more of the reactants which are normally insoluble or unstable in the aqueous phase under the synthesis conditions. Such a procedure enables the preparation of improved SAPO 37 product when compared to conventional synthesis. The two phase synthesis method also enhances the ability to control the crystallization reaction. In addition to its templating role, the organic directing agent can also act as a surfactant. It can help the codispersion of the organic and aqueous phases containing the reagents. In the synthesis method of the present invention, the reaction mixture contains sources of silicon oxide, phosphorus oxide and aluminum oxide, an directing agent and an organic solvent in the relationship hereinbefore set forth. The organic directing agent is a mixture of two different organic cations, a tetrapropylammonium cation and a tetramethylammonium cation. The ratio of tetrapropylammonium cations tetramethylammonium cations in the mixture will be from 10 1 to 80 1. The compounds providing these cations may be halides, e.g., chloride or iodide, hydroxides, acetates, sulfates, carboxylates, or combinations thereof. Tetrapropylammonium cations alone direct synthesis of an ALPO 5 type structure, whereas tetramethylammonium cations alone direct synthesis of a sodalite type structure. Using a mixture of these cations, SAPO 37 is the directed crystal product structure. The useful sources of aluminum oxide include any known form of aluminum oxide or hydroxide, organic or inorganic salt or compound. The useful sources of phosphorus oxide include any known form of phosphorus acids or phosphorus oxides, phosphates and phosphites, and organic derivatives of phosphorus. The useful sources of silicon oxide include any known form of silicic acid or silicon dioxide, alkoxy or other compounds of silicon. The organic solvent used to form the two phase reaction mixture can be any organic liquid which is substantially immiscible with water under the crystallization conditions of the present method. Non limiting examples of such a solvent include the C₅ C₁₀ alcohols, phenols, and naphthols and other substantially water immiscible organic solvents. Polar organic compounds are preferred for the organic phase solvent. The inorganic cations and anions essentially present in the reaction mixture are generally not provided by separately added components. Rather, these cations and anions will frequently come from compounds added to the reaction mixture to provide the other essential components such as the silicon, alumina and or phosphorus sources or such as the directing agent or any pH adjustment agents which may be used. One of the sources of silicon oxide, aluminium oxide or phosphorus oxide must initially be present in the organic phase of the reaction mixture. The aqueous phase will thus comprise the directing agent, cations and anions, pH adjustment agents and those sources of silicon oxide, phosphorus oxide and aluminum oxide which are not added to the organic phase. The reaction mixture having the composition hereinbefore described is initially heated at a rate of 5 C to 200 C per hour up to a temperature of 80 C to 200 C and maintained within that temperature range until nucleation of SAPO 37 occurs. Then the reaction mixture is further heated at a rate of 5 C to 200 C per hour to a final temperature of 100 C to 300 C until crystals of desired SAPO 37 form, usually from 5 hours to 500 hours. The pH of the reaction mixture during crystallization is carefully maintained at from about 2 to about 9. This may be accomplished by adjusting the concentration of the added base s . During the heat up and crystallization steps, the reaction mixture is agitated in a manner to intimately admix the substantially immiscible organic and aqueous phases. Techniques for dispersing the organic and aqueous phases in each other are well known in the art. It may even be desirable to form an emulsion of the organic and aqueous phases in order to maximize the interface between these liquid phases. Following crystallization of the desired material, the reaction mixture containing same is filtered and the recovered crystals are washed, for example with water, and then dried, such as by heating at from 25 C to 150 C at atmospheric pressure. In a more specific illustration of the present synthesis method, the aqueous phase contains the phosphorus and aluminum reagents, for example phosphoric acid and alumina. The organic phase with hexanol, for example, as solvent contains the silicon source, e.g. tetra orthoalkylsilicate. The organic directing agent, i.e. a 37 1 mixture of tetrapropylammonium and tetramethylammonium cations, also acts as a surfactant to emulsify the aqueous and organic phases and optimize the interface. Silicon is progressively supplied during synthesis to the gel by hydrolysis of its organic compound and transfer of the product through the interface into the aqueous phase. As silicon, aluminum and phosphorus must be available simultaneously to nucleate and crystallize the silicoaluminophosphate, the rates of supply of all three elements have to be comparable. This implies that the neutralization reaction, e.g. between H₃PO₄ and Al₂O₃, and the hydrolysis of the organic silicon compound have to be concerted. Therefore, it may be important to predigest the alumina phosphoric acid mixture. Even more critical will be the silicon supply rate which depends on factors such as the magnitude of the interface, temperature, pH of the aqueous phase, concentration, and nature of the organic solvent and of the silicon reagent. Because the hydrolysis and transfer rates of silicon are controlled by the magnitude of the interface, as discussed earlier, silicon incorporation is expected to be favored as mixing increases. pH is an important synthesis variable and as the formation of the silicoaluminophosphate proceeds, pH values of around or above neutral i.e. 6 to 9 should be maintained. As the base stability of silicoaluminophopshate is expected to be intermediate between those of aluminum phosphates and zeolites, pH values of about or slightly above 8 are preferred. Because of the major role played by the hydrolysis of the silicon reagent and the necessity to control it in the present method, there is a need to have a nearly constant pH during crystallization in particular, to avoid rapid acid hydrolysis of the silicon source . This can be achieved by predigestion of alumina in phosphoric acid before addition of the other reagents, which raises the initial pH to 5 7. To achieve and maintain higher pH values pH 8 or above , even after partial decomposition of the organic hydroxide, inorganic bases may be added. The SAPO 37 prepared by the present method is beneficially subjected to thermal treatment to remove the organic directing agent. This thermal treatment is generally performed by heating at a temperature of 300 C 100 C for at least 1 minute and generally not longer than 20 hours. While subatmospheric pressure can be employed for the thermal treatment, atmospheric pressure is desired for reasons of convenience. The thermally treated product is particularly useful in the catalysis of certain hydrocarbon conversion reactions. The SAPO 37 synthesized hereby can be used as catalyst in intimate combination with a metal component such as silver, tungsten, vanadium, molybdenum, rhenium, chromium, manganese, or a Group VIII metal such as platinum or palladium where, for example, a hydrogenation dehydrogenation or oxidation function is to be performed. Such a component can be ion exhanged into the composition, impregnated therein or intimately physically admixed therewith. Such component can be impregnated into or onto the composition, such as, for example, in the case of platinum, by treating the crystal with a solution containing a platinum metal containing ion. Thus, suitable platinum compounds include chloroplatinic acid, platinous chloride and various compounds containing the platinum amine complex. The original ions, i.e. cations or anions, of the as synthesized SAPO 37 can be replaced in accordance with techniques well known in the art, at least in part, by ion exchange with other cations or anions. Preferred replacing cations include metal ions, hydrogen ions, hydrogen precursor, e.g. ammonium, ions and mixtures thereof. Particularly preferred cations include hydrogen, rare earth metals and metals of Groups IIA, IIIA, IVA, IB, IIB, IIIB, IVB, VIB and VIII of the Periodic Table of the Elements. A typical ion exchange technique would be to contact the synthetic crystalline SAPO 37 with a salt of the desired replacing ion or ions. Examples of such salts of cations include the halides, e.g. chlorides, nitrates and sulfates. Further, the present SAPO 37, when employed either as an adsorbent, ion exchanger or as a catalyst in an organic compound conversion process should be dehydrated, at least partially. This can be done by heating to a temperature in the range of 200 C to 600 C in air or an inert atmosphere, such as nitrogen, etc. and at atmospheric, subatmospheric or superatmospheric pressures for between 30 minutes and 48 hours. Dehydration can also be performed at room temperature merely by placing the crystalline material in a vacuum, but a longer time is required to obtain a sufficient amount of dehydration. Therefore, depending upon the degree of dehydration or thermal treatment desired for the SAPO 37, it may be subjected to heating at a temperature of from 200 C to 1000 C for a time of from 1 minute to 48 hours. The crystals of SAPO 37 prepared by the instant invention can be shaped into a wide variety of particle sizes. Generally speaking, the particles can be in the form of a powder, a granule, or a molded product, such as an extrudate having a particle size sufficient to pass through a 2 mesh Tyler screen and be retained on a 400 mesh Tyler screen. In cases where the composition is molded, such as by extrusion, the crystals can be extruded before drying or partially dried and then extruded. In the case of many catalysts, it is desired to incorporate the SAPO 37 with another material resistant to the temperatures and other condition employed in organic conversion processes. Such materials include active and inactive material and synthetic or naturally occurring zeolites as well as inorganic materials such as clays, silica and or metal oxides. The later may be either naturally occurring or in the form of gelatinous precipitates or gels including mixtures of silica and metal oxides. Use of a material in conjunction with the SAPO 37, i.e. combined therewith, which is active, tends to improve the conversion and or selectivity of the catalyst in certain organic conversion processes. Inactive materials suitably serve as diluents to control the amount of conversion in a given process so that products can be obtained economically without employing other means for controlling the rate of reaction. These materials may be incorporated into naturally occurring clays, e.g. bentonite and kaolin, to improve the crush strength of the catalyst under commercial operating conditions. Said materials, i.e. clays, oxides, etc., function as binders for the catalyst. It is desirable to provide a catalyst having good crush strength because in commercial use it is desirable to prevent the catalyst from breaking down into powder like materials. These clay binders have been employed normally only for the purpose of improving the crush strength of the catalyst. Naturally occurring clays which can be composited with the new crystal include the montmorillonite and kaolin families which include the subbentonites, and the kaolins commonly known as Dixie, McNamee, Georgia and Florida clays or others in which the main mineral contituent is halloysite, kaolinite, dickite, nacrite, or anauxite. Such clays can be used in the raw sate as originally mined or initially subjected to calcination, acid treatment or chemical modification. Binders useful for compositing with the present crystal also include inorganic oxides, notably alumina or silica. In addition to the foregoing materials, the SAPO 37 produced can be composited with a porous matrix material such as aluminum phosphate, silica alumina, silica magnesia, silica zirconia, silica thoria, silica beryllia, silica titania as well as ternary compositions such as silica alumina thoria, silica alumina zirconia, silica alumina magnesia and silica magnesia zirconia. The relative proportions of finely divided crystalline SAPO 37 material and inorganic oxide gel matrix vary widely, with the crystal content ranging from 1 to 90 percent by weight and more usually, particularly when the composite is prepared in the form of beads, in the range of 2 to 80 weight percent of the composite. The crystalline material produced by the present process is readily convertible to catalytically active material for a variety of organic, e.g. hydrocarbon, compound conversion processes. Such conversion processes cracking hydrocarbons with reaction conditions including a temperature of from 300 C to 700 C, a pressure of from 10 to 3040 kPa 0.1 to 30 atmospheres and a weight hourly space velocity of from 0.1 to 20 hr ¹ hydrocracking hydrocarbons when the catalyst is associated with an appropriate hydrogenation metal, e.g., noble metal, cobalt, and molybdenum with reaction conditions including a temperature of from 300 C to 450 C, a hydrogen pressure of from 6585 to 20265 kPa 65 to 200 atmospheres and a weight hourly space velocity of from 0.5 hr ¹ to 5 hr ¹ and isomerizing xylene feedstock components with reaction conditions including a temperature of from 230 C to 510 C, a pressure of from 304 tp 3546 kPa 3 to 35 atmospheres , a weight hourly space velocity of from 0.1 to 200 and a hydrogen hydrocarbon mole ratio of from 0 e.g. 0.1 to 100. In general, therefore, catalytic conversion conditions over a catalyst comprising SAPO 37 in active form include a temperature of 230 C to 700 C, a pressure of from 10 to 20265 kPa 0.1 to 200 atmospheres , a weight hourly space velocity of from 0.1 hr ¹ to 200 hr ¹ and a hydrogen organic, e.g. hydrocarbon, compound of from 0 to 100. The crystalline material of the present invention is also useful for sorptive separation of para and meta xylene isomers when the crystal is associated with large cations, such as, for example cesium or alkaline earths, e.g., barium or calcium. In order to more fully illustrate the nature of the invention and the manner of practicing same, the following examples are presented. When Alpha Value is examined, it is noted that the Alpha Value is an approximate indication of the catalytic cracking activity of the catalyst compared to a standard catalyst and gives the relative rate constant rate of normal hexane conversion per volume of catalyst per unit time . It is based on the activity of the highly active silica alumina cracking catalyst taken as an Alpha of 1 Rate Constant 0.016 sec ¹ . In the case of zeolite HZSM 5, only 174 ppm of tetrahedrally coordinated Al₂O₃ are required to provide an Alpha Value of 1. The Alpha Test is described in U.S. Patent 3,3543,078 and in When ion exchange capacity is examined, it is determined by titrating with a solution of sulfamic acid the gaseous ammonia evolved during the temperature programmed decomposition of the ammonium form of the crystalline material. The method is described in In this example, SAPO 37 was prepared as in Example 43 of U.S. Patent 4,440,871. A reaction mixture was prepared by stirring 30.5 g water, 27.7 g H₃PO₄ 85 , and 16.6 g Al₂O₃ Catapal from Conoco until homogeneous. To this mixture was added a dispersion of 3.1 g silica HiSil in 116 g TPAOH 40 tetrapropylammonium hydroxide and 1.1 g TMAOHx5H₂O solid tetramethylammonium hydroxide . This reaction mixture contained from 1.3 to 1.5 grams of available silicon. The reaction mixture was stirred until homogeneous and placed into a 300 ml stainless steel autoclave and heated to 200 C for 24 hours with moderate stirring. The pH of the mixture was 8.5. The solid product was filtered, washed with water and dried. The yield of as synthesized material was 9.7 g. The product had an X ray diffraction pattern typical of materials having the faujasite type structure as shown in Table II. The product was submitted for chemical analysis and the results gave the following composition in weight The synthesis of Example 1 was repeated and yielded 9.5 g of a solid dry product with an X ray diffraction pattern identical to the one of the Example 1 product. The composition of the product was Fractions of the products of Examples 1 and 2 were examined under a light microscope Nikon, total enlargement 400 x . The crystals in either batch were octahedra with fully developed crystal faces or intergrowths of cubic cyrstals. Their size was 2 to 10 microns. A fraction of the solid product of Example 1 was calcined as described in U.S. Patent 4,440,871, Example 43, and exchanged in a solution of 1 M NH₄Cl. The product of this exchange was heated in helium in a TGA furnace to 1000 C and the evolved NH₃ was titrated. The amount of titrant needed was 0.29 meq g of ash. In this example, SAPO 37 was prepared by the present invention. A two phase reaction mixture was prepared comprising an aqueous and an organic phase. The organic phase was immiscible with the aqueous phase. In order to make this Example comparable to Examples 1 and 2 above, the molar concentrations of the main constituents Si, Al, P, and the directing agents were kept constant. Hence, an aqueous phase containing 30.5 g water, 27.7 g H₃PO₄ 85 , and 16.6 g Al₂O₃ Catapal from Conoco was prepared and stirred until homogeneous. As directing agent a mixture of 116 g TPAOH 40 wt in water and 1.1 g TMAOHx5H₂O solid crystals were added to this mixture and dissolved. The mixture was digested for 1 hour at 80 C. An organic phase was prepared by mixing 60 g 1 hexanol and 10.7 g Si OC₂H₅ ₄. The two phase reaction mixture had from 1.4 to 1.5 grams of available silicon. The two phases were added together in a beaker and stirred then the reaction mixture was transferred into a 300 ml steel autoclave. The mixture was heated at a rate of 50 C per hour to 130 C with stirring 800 rpm for 24 hours and then kept at 200 C for 24 hours. The pH was maintained at 9.0. The solid product was filtered, washed with water and dried. The yield of as synthesized material was 23 g. The product had an X ray diffraction pattern typical of materials having the faujasite type structure as shown in Table III. Occasional small amounts of impurities were found in the product marked with an asterisk in the Table . The product was submitted for chemical analysis and the results gave the following composition in weight The synthesis of Example 5 was repeated and yielded 25 g of a solid dry product with an X ray diffraction pattern identical to the one of the Example 5 product. The composition of this product was Fractions of the solid products of Examples 5 and 6 were examined by light and scanning electron microscopy. The crystals were small below 0.5 microns and agglomerated. The small crystal size can be related to the broadened X ray diffraction lines obtained from the products. A fraction of the solid product of Example 5 was treated by heating it to 450 C in nitrogen and keeping it at that temperature for 4 hours, then exchanging it in a solution of 1 M NH₄Cl. A fraction of the product of this exchange was heated in helium in a TGA furnace to 1000 C and the evolved NH₃ was titrated. The amount of titrant needed was 1.02 meq g of ash. A fraction of the exchanged product of Example 8 was tested in the Alpha Test. The Alpha Value was found to be 1.0. The synthesis of Example 5 was again repeated, except that the temperature was raised to 200 C directly at 50 C hour and kept there for 48 hours. The crystalline product had the diffraction pattern of material having the ALPO 5 structure type U.S. Patent 4,310,440 ,and being indistinguishable from SAPO 5 U.S. Patent 4,440,871 . The above examples illustrate the improvement of the present invention. The following tabulation clarifies the comparison. Cation exchange sites as a measure of titrant needed in TGA is indicated. When the present method is not followed, such as when the temperature increasing step is not followed, SAPO 37 is not obtained, as illustrated in Example 10.