# A METHOD FOR DIGITAL CLOCK SIGNAL RECOVERY FROM MANCHESTER ENCODED SIGNALS

## Claims
Verfahren zum Rückgewinnen des Taktsignals aus Manchester kodierten Signalen, die an zwei Signal Leitungen ermittelt werden, wobei die Manchester kodierten Signale ein serieller Manchester kodierter Strom von Bits sind, von denen jedes eine Zwischen Bit Periode T hat, mit den folgenden Verfahrenschritten

## Description
This invention relates to decoding receivers for Manchester encoded signals and, in particular, to a method for recovering a decoding clock signal from a Manchester encoded signal received on a data communication signalling line. We draw attention to our copending European Patent Application EP A 0186462 published on 02.07.86 corresponding to A 4,606,052, published on 12.08.86. The proliferation of localised data processing and data handling equipment has spurred provision of data signal communication via inexpensive communication links between these various equipments linked together to form local area network systems. Serial transmission of data on only one inexpensive signal line such as a twisted pair of wires or a coaxial cable is a cost effective way of linking data equipment into a local area network. Data signals sent on signal lines are subject to distortion and electrical interference, in the form of impulse noise and the like. Recovery of data information from a distorted and noisy transmitted data signal by a receiver requires the use of a local clock signal at the receiver. Providing a separate clock signal at the receiver site which is synchronous with the transmitted data is a significant problem. Transmitting a separate clock signal on a separate line is an expensive solution. Conventional non return to zero NRZ data signals usually contain a direct current dc component, which is particularly strong on long strings of ONEs or ZEROs. For NRZ data signals, the dc component must be propagated through the signal line. It should be appreciated that transmission of a data signal through an alternating current ac coupled signal line is desirable and that providing for direct current dc coupling of a data signal is an expensive undertaking. Manchester encoding of a data signal prior to transmission overcomes the above mentioned problems of transmitting a separate clock signal and of providing dc coupling for the data signal. A Manchester encoded data signal solves these problems by being a so called self clocking signal and by having no dc component. In simplest form, a Manchester encoded signal can be thought of as being generated by combining the data signal with the clock signal. The combination is then transmitted through an ac coupled transmission medium. To generate a Manchester encoded signal an NRZ data signal and a square wave clock signal are combined in an EXCLUSIVE OR gate to produce a Manchester encoded signal having a 50 50 duty cycle. For one half of a bit period, the Manchester encoded signal is at a ONE binary level, and for the other half of the bit period, the Manchester encoded signal is at its complementary binary level. Consequently, no dc component is produced and Manchester encoded signals, having no dc component, are well suited for transmission through ac coupled systems. From the above, it should be recognized, that for each bit period of a Manchester encoded signal, a transition from a binary ZERO to a binary ONE, or vice versa, must occur. This doubles the transmission bandwidth required for a Manchester encoded transmission system but provides significant advantages, as described above. For a square wave clock, the transition occurs at the middle of the bit cell, or bit period. Depending upon the phase of the clock signal in a bit period, the transition from a ZERO to a ONE level represents either a ONE data bit or ZERO data bit. Similarly, the transition from a one to a zero level represents the opposite type of data bit. Because the Manchester encoded data signal always has a transition occurring at the middle of the bit period, a clock signal can, in principle, be recovered at a receiver. However, distortion and noise on a received Manchester encoded signal make detection of data transitions and subsequent reconstruction of a received clock signal difficult because a receiver cannot distinguish between a valid Manchester encoded signal and noise. This situation is particularly troublesome when a signal line has been in an ideal state with no signals on the line and when a valid Manchester encoded signal is subsequently sent. A receiver which cannot adequately distinguish noise signals from the start of the sequence of valid Manchester encoded signals is unable to begin to properly recover the clock signal and ultimately to provide a synchronzied clock signal for subsequent recovery of Manchester encoded data signals. Thus, it should be appreciated that recovery and synchronization of clock signal for a Manchester encoded data receiver are critical functions. The problems of synchronization of a receiver clock and recognition of valid Manchester encoded signal activity on a signalling line, have been addressed with a number of system solutions. For example, systems which operate in conformity with MIL STD 1553 use a so cabled synchronizing impulse data string which precedes valid data. The synchronizing impulse, or course, can be sent on a separate signal line, but obviously, that is an undesirable solution. In another approach, a conventional analog phase locked loop is used in a receiver to lock on the input signal and recover a receive clock reference signal. However, fast clock acquisition requires wide loop bandwidths while operation with noisy signals narrow loop bandwidths, and the resulting receiver suffers a compromised performance. Reference may be made to Patent Publication WO A 8 404 863. This describes a circuit for recovering a clock signal from a Manchester encoded signal. It includes means for generating a recovered clock signal having a period of approximately T a transition detector detecting the transitions zero crossings of the received data signal means for comparing in time the transitions of the received data signal with those of the recovered clock signal and means for adjusting the period of the recovered clock signal to be longer than, equal to, or shorter than the previous period, depending on whether the transitions of the received data signal lead, are coincident with, or lag those of the recovered clock signal. We will describe a method for rapidly recovering the clock from Manchester encoded signals using only simple digital techniques. This includes detection of zero crossings of the received Manchester encoded signal and adjusting the frequency of the recovered clock by comparing the occurrence of the zero crossing of the received signal with the occurrence of the midpoint of the period of the presently generated recovered clock. Shorten, center and lengthen adjustment signals are provided as a result of the comparison which are used to shorten or lengthen by a 1 16 increment of the received bit period, the period of the next generated recovered clock. A technique readily implemented on a sixteen state programmable counter, uses the adjustment signals and the state of the programmable counter in simple Boolean equations to determine the next state of the programmable counter. In this way, a one state self loop or a two state jump is performed to effect a 1 16 bit period lengthening, or shortening, respectively, of the period of the counter. The present invention provides a method of recovering the clock from Manchester encoded signals detected on a pair of signal lines, said Manchester encoded signals being a serial Manchester encoded stream of bits, each having an inter bit period T, comprising the steps of The accompanying drawings which are incorporated into and form a part of the specification, illustrate the invention and, together with their description, and serve to explain the principles of the invention. In the drawings FIG. 1 A B is a functional block diagram of a Manchester encoded Receiver according to the present invention FIG. 2 is a timing diagram of the terminal characteristics of the Manchester encoded Receiver according to the present invention FIG. 3 is a logic diagram of the Receive Line Activity. Counter section of the Receiver of the present invention FIG. 4 is a logic diagram of the Receive Clock Qualification section of the Receiver of the present invention FIG. 5 is a logic diagram of the Receive Clock Recovery section of the Receiver of the present invention FIG. 6 is a logic diagram of the Receive Data Interpreter and Supervisor section of the Receiver of the present invention FIGS. 7A and 7B are logic diagrams of the Receive Decode Logic section of the Receiver of the present invention and FIG. 8 is a logic diagram of the Receive Output Synthesizers section of the Receiver of the present invention. Reference is now made in detail to the present preferred embodiment of the invention which illustrates the best mode presently contemplated by the inventor for practicing the method and apparatus of the invention, the preferred embodiment of which is illustrated in the accompanying drawings. The invention described herein is the Receiver portion of a single integrated circuit identified as the Advanced Micro Devices Am7960 Coded Data Transceiver. FIG. 1 is a functional block diagram of the Receiver portion of the integrated circuit. A functional block diagram of a Manchester encoded Receiver 100 constructed according to the teachings of the instant invention is illustrated in FIG. 1. Reference should be had to the related copending application Serial No. 684,085, filed December 21, 1984 on behalf of Roy Levy and Frederick Hirzel entitled A Method for Detection of Line Activity for Manchester encoded Signals , assigned to the assignee of the instant application, which is hereby incorporated by reference, for a detailed description of the following elements illustrated in FIG. 1 the Receive Line Activity Counter 110, the Receive Clock Qualification 120, the Receive Data Interpreter and Supervisor 130 and the Receive Decode Logic 140. Briefly, the Manchester encoded signals are received at receiver line terminals RxL0, RxL1 at a receive interface not illustrated portion of receiver 100. The ST and ST , and the line input data signals generated by a receiver channel interface are applied to a Receive Clock Qualification block 120 and a Receive Data Interpreter and Supervisor block 130, respectively of Receiver 100. As shown in FIG. 2, status signals are generated at an advance carrier presence ACP , a carrier presence CP and a carrier sense CS , terminal of Receiver 100 and signals are generated at a receive clock RxC and a receive data RXD terminals thereof in response to the ST , ST and line data signals applied thereto. Internal counterparts, preceded by the letter I , for these signals are used synonomously hereinafter, for instance IACP is used to represent the internal advance carrier presence signal. As shown on FIG. 2, after the Receiver 100 has detected line activity 200 at the RxL0, RxL1 terminals of the Receiver, it attempts to acquire information from the line data to generate the signals at the RxC terminal. This so called Clock Qualification takes place within block 120 and is achieved by sampling the presence levels ST and ST . There must be a differential line voltage signal applied to the RxL0 and RxL1 terminals either above the positive presence level and then below the negative presence level, or below the negative presence level and then above the positive presence level, in 3 4 to 1 1 4 the inter bit time of the input LINE DATA. After this occurs, the next detected line activity 202, causes Receiver 100 to initiate acquisition of the receive clock recovery circuitry 150, 204, as shown in FIG. 2 In response to detection of the transitions of the LINE DATA signals, line activity 200, the Receiver 100 causes the signal at the The Receiver 100 causes the signal at the As shown on the fourth waveform of FIG. 2, the Receiver 100 causes the signal at the The Receiver 100 decodes the input data by sampling within block 130 at 1 4 and 3 4 bit intervals following the start of the inter bit time. If these samples are of opposite binary polarity, valid Manchester encoded data has been decoded. If these samples are of the same binary polarity as is the sample at the next 1 4 bit interval, the Receiver 100 determines that an end of message has been detected, 228. The six functional blocks of Receiver 100, blocks 110, 120, 150, 130, 140 and 160 consist of the components illustrated in the logic diagrams of FIGS. 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8, respectively. A brief description of the circuits shown on these logic diagrams will now be given. With reference to FIG. 3, the Receive Line Activity Counter block 110 includes a positive pulse catcher 400 112 on FIG. 1A which receives the ST and ST signals generated by receiver channel interface 10 and a clock signal CLK16 from a clock internal to block 110 not shown with a cycle sixteen times faster than that of the clock signal recovered from the LINE DATA signals. An advanced line signal ALS is generated by pulse catcher 400 when either ST or ST signal has been conducted to the pulse catcher and on the rising edge of the CLK16 signal, the complemented ALS signal is conducted to a first input of an OR gate 402. A second input of OR gate 402 receives a RESET signal conducted from a terminal of Receiver 100. A D type flip flop 404 114 on FIG. 1A receives at its data input D the output signal generated by OR gate 402. Flip flop 404 also receives the CLK16 signal at its clock input. Flip flop 404 generates at its complemented output terminal As shown on FIG. 3, the IARST signal is conducted to a 2 bit line active time out counter portion of block 110 116 on FIG. 1A , which includes five D type flip flops and four multiplexers. A D type flip flop 406 receives at its data input D the signal generated by an OR gate 407 which, in turn, receives at a first input the IARST signal generated by flip flop 404. A second input of OR gate 407 receives the signal generated at the complemented output terminal A two in, one out multiplexer MUX 408 receives at a control input S0 the signal generated at the output terminal Q of flip flop 406, which signal is used by the MUX 408 to select which of the signals applied to MUX 408 at a 1Q or a complemented 1D terminal will be generated at an output of MUX 408. A second D type flip flop 410 receives at its data input D the signal generated by an OR gate 412 which, in turn, receives at a first input the IARST signal generated by flip flop 404. A second input of OR gate 412 receives the signal generated at the output terminal of MUX 408. Flip flop 410 also receives the CLK16 signal at its clock input. A second two in, one out multiplexer MUX 414 receives at a control input SO the signal generated by an OR gate 416 which, in turn, receives at a first input the signal generated at the output terminal Q of flip flop 410, which signal is also conducted to true 1Q and complemented 1D inputs of MUX 408. A second input of OR gate 416 receives the signal generated at the complemented output terminal A third D type flip flop 418 receives at its data input D the signal generated by an OR gate 420 which, in turn, receives at a first input the IARST signal generated by flip flop 404. A second input of OR gate 420 receives the signal generated at the output terminal of MUX 414. Flip flop 418 also receives the CLK16 signal at its clock input. A third two in, one out multiplexer MUX 422 receives at a control input S0 the signal generated by an OR gate 424 which, in turn, receives at a first input the signal generated at the output terminal Q of flip flop 410. A second input of OR gate 424 receives the signal generated at the complemented output terminal A fourth D type flip flop 426 receives at its data input D the signal generated by an OR gate 428 which, in turn, receives at a first input the IARST signal generated by flip flop 404. A second input of OR gate 420 receives the signal generated at the output terminal of MUX 422. Flip flop 418 also receives the CLK16 signal at its clock input. A fourth two in, one out multiplexer MUX 430 receives at a control input S0 the signal generated by an OR gate 432 which, in turn, receives at a first input the signal generated at the output terminal Q of flip flop 410. A second input of OR gate 432 receives the signal generated at the complemented output terminal A fifth D type flip flop 434 receives at its data input D the signal generated by an OR gate 436 which, in turn, receives at a first input the IARST signal generated by flip flop 404. A second input of OR gate 434 receives the signal generated at the output terminal of MUX 430. Flip flop 434 also receives the CLK16 signal at its clock input. The signal generated at the output terminal Q of flip flop 434 is conducted to true 1Q and complemented 1D inputs of MUX 430 as well as to a first input of an OR gate 438. The signal generated at the output terminal of OR gate 438 is conducted to a data input D of a D type flip flop 440 118 on FIG. 1A , which generates at its true output terminal Q an internal advance carrier presence IACP signal which indicates line activity, and generates at its complement output terminal With reference to FIG. 4, the Receive Clock Qualification block 120 includes an input carrier synchronizer section 450 122 on FIG. 1A which receives the ST and ST signals generated by receiver channel interface 10 and a clock signal CLK16 from a clock internal to block 110 not shown with a cycle sixteen times faster than that of the clock signal recovered from the LINE DATA signals. The input carrier synchronizer section 450 includes four D type flip flops 452, 454, 456 and 458 which each receive the CLK16 clock signal at their clock inputs. The ST signal is applied to the data input D terminal of flip flop 452, which is connected in series with flip flop 454 to provide double buffering of the ST signal. The ST signal is applied to the data input D terminal of flip flop 456, which is connected in series with flip flop 458 to provide double buffering of the ST signal. The individually synchronized signals ST , A register portion 472 of block 120 129 on FIG. 1A includes a D type flip flop 474 which receives at its data input D a signal generated by an OR gate 476, which in turn receives at a first input terminal the An OR gate 482 125 on FIG. 1A receives the APS, As shown on FIG. 4, the ACRST signal is conducted to a 5 bit counter portion of discriminator 484 126 on FIG. 1A , which includes five D type flip flops and four multiplexers. A D type flip flop 486 receives at its data input D the signal generated by an OR gate 487 which, in turn, receives at a first input the ACRST signal generated by OR gate 482. A second input of OR gate 487 receives the signal generated at the complemented output terminal A second D type flip flop 490 receives at its data input D the signal generated by an OR gate 492 which, in turn, receives at a first input the ACRST signal generated by OR gate 482. A second input of OR gate 492 receives the signal generated at the output terminal of MUX 488. Flip flop 490 also receives the CLK16 signal at its clock input. A second two in, one out multiplexer MUX 494 receives at a control input S0 the signal generated by an OR gate 496 which, in turn, receives at a first input the signal generated at the output terminal Q of flip flop 490, which signal is also conducted to true 1Q and complemented 1D inputs of MUX 488. A second input of OR gate 496 receives the signal generated at the complemented output terminal A third D type flip flop 498 receives at its data input D the signal generated by an OR gate 500 which, in turn, receives at a first input the ACRST signal generated by OR gate 482. A second input of OR gate 500 receives the signal generated at the output terminal of MUX 494. Flip flop 498 also receives the CLK16 signal at its clock input. A third two in, one out multiplexer MUX 502 receives at a control input S0 the signal generated by an OR gate 504 which, in turn, receives at a first input the signal generated at the output terminal Q of flip flop 490. A second input of OR gate 504 receives the signal generated at the complemented output terminal A fourth D type flip flop 506 receives at its data input D the signal generated by an OR gate 508 which, in turn, receives at a first input the ACRST signal generated by OR gate 482. A second input of OR gate 508 receives the signal generated at the output terminal of MUX 502. Flip flop 506 also receives the CLK16 signal at its clock input. A fourth two in, one out multiplexer MUX 510 receives at a control input S0 the signal generated by an OR gate 512 which, in turn, receives at a first input the signal generated at the complemented output terminal A fifth D type flip flop 514 receives at its data input D the signal generated by an OR gate 516 which, in turn, receives at a first input the ACRST signal generated by OR gate 482. A second input of OR gate 516 receives the signal generated at the output terminal of MUX 510. Flip flop 514 also receives the CLK16 signal at its clock input. The signal generated at the output terminal Q of flip flop 514 is conducted to true 1Q and complemented 1D inputs of MUX 510 as well as to a first input of a NOR gate 518. NOR gate 518 receives at a second input terminal the signal generated at the complemented The signal generated at the output terminal of OR gate 520 is conducted to a complemented input terminal of an AND gate 522 128 0n FIG. 1A and the APS signal generated by NAND gate 470 is received at a true input terminal of AND gate 522, which generates at a complemented output terminal an advanced carrier sense With reference to FIG. 5, the Receive Clock Recovery block 150 includes a recovered clock oscillator section 530 152 on FIG. 1A which receives the clock recovery preset CRESET signal generated by the receive supervisor section 136 and the complementary digital phase locked loop As shown on FIG. 5, the CRESET signal is conducted to the recovered clock oscillator section 530 which has a 5 bit counter portion which includes five D type flip flops and five multiplexers. A two in, one out multiplexer MUX 532 receives at a control input S0 the signal generated at the output terminal of an OR gate 534, which signal is used by the MUX 488 to select which of the signals applied to MUX 488 at a 1Q or a complemented 1D terminal will be generated at an output of MUX 488. The OR gate 534 receives at a first input the A PLL0 D type flip flop 536 receives at its data input D the signal generated by an OR gate 537 which, in turn, receives at a first input the CRESET signal. A second input of OR gate 537 receives the signal generated at the output terminal of MUX 532. Flip flop 536 also receives the CLK16 signal at its clock input. The signal generated at the complemented output terminal A third two in, one out multiplexer MUX 546 receives at a control input S0 the signal generated by an OR gate 548 which, in turn, receives at a first input the signal generated at the output terminal Q of flip flop 536, which signal is also conducted to true 1Q and complemented 1D inputs of MUX 532. A second input of OR gate 548 receives the signal generated at the true output terminal Q of flip flop 542. The control signal is used by the MUX 546 to select which of the signals applied to MUX 546 at a 1Q or a complemented 1D terminal will be generated at an output of MUX 546. A third PLL2 D type flip flop 550 receives at its data input D the signal generated by an OR gate 552 which, in turn, receives at a first input the CRESET signal. A second input of OR gate 552 receives the signal generated at the output terminal of MUX 546. Flip flop 550 also receives the CLK16 signal at its clock input. The signal generated at the true output terminal Q of flip flop 550 is conducted to a true 10 and a complemented 1D input terminal of MUX 546. A fourth two in, one out multiplexer MUX 554 receives at a control input S0 the signal generated by an OR gate 556 which, in turn, receives at a first input the signal generated at the output terminal Q of flip flop 536. A second input of OR gate 504 receives the signal generated at the true output terminal Q of flip flop 542. The control signal is used by the MUX 554 to select which of the signals applied to MUX 554 at a 1Q or a complemented 1D terminal will be generated at an output of MUX 502. A fourth PLL3 D type flip flop 558 receives at its data input D the signal generated by an OR gate 560 which, in turn, receives at a first input the CRESET signal. A second input of OR gate 560 receives the signal generated at the output terminal of MUX 554. Flip flop 558 also receives the CLK16 signal at its clock input. The signal generated at the output terminal Q of flip flop 558 is conducted to true 1Q and complemented 1D inputs of MUX 502. A fifth two in, one out multiplexer MUX 562 receives at a control input S0 the signal generated by an OR gate 564 which, in turn, receives at a first input the signal generated at the complemented output terminal The signal generated at the output terminal Q of flip flop 566 XPLL is conducted to true 1Q and complemented 1D inputs of MUX 562 as well as to a first input of a NOR gate 570. NOR gate 570 receives at a second input terminal the signal generated at the true Q output terminal of flip flop 558 PLL3 and at a third input terminal the signal generated at the complemented The signal generated at the output terminal Q of flip flop 558 PLL3 is conducted to true 1Q and complemented 1D inputs of MUX 554 as well as to a first input of a NOR gate 572. NOR gate 572 receives at a second input terminal the signal generated at the true Q output terminal of flip flop 566 XPLL and at a third input terminal the signal generated at the complemented The recovered clock to data clock phase detector section 576 156 on FIG. 1A of Receive Clock Recovery block 150. Section 576 generates The output terminal of OR gate 578 is connected to a first input terminal of an AND gate 580, which in turn has its output terminal connected to a first input terminal of an OR gate 582. OR gate 582 generates at its output terminal a signal received at a data D input terminal of a The The The output terminal of OR gate 600 is connected to a first input terminal of an AND gate 602, which in turn has its output terminal connected to a first input terminal of an OR gate 604. OR gate 604 generates at its output terminal a signal received at a data D input terminal of a With reference to Fig. 6, the Receive Data Interpreter and Supervisor block 130 includes an input data synchronizer 610 132 on Fig. 1B which receives the LINE INPUT DATA signals and the Block 130 also include a data zero crossing detector 620 134 on Fig. 1B which comprises an exculsive OR XOR gate 622 which receives the DAT0 and DAT1 signals generated at the true Q output terminals of flip flops 616 and 618, respectively. Gate 622 generates therefrom, at a complemented output, the EDGE signal. Block 130 also includes the Receive Supervisor portion 624 136 on Fig. 1B which receives the true and complemented signals generated at the output terminals of XOR gate 622 as well as the DPLLON, The output terminal of OR gate 638 is connected to the data D input terminal of a D type flip flop 640 which generates at its true Q and complemented output terminals an RSUP0, and The Receive Supervisor portion 624 of block 130 also includes a NOR gate 642 which receives the As shown on Fig. 6, Receive Data interpreter and supervisor block 130 also includes a data 1 4, 3 4 cell sampler portion 654 138 on Fig. 1B which receives the DAT0 and A two in, one out multiplexer MUX 660 receives the DPLLON signal at its control input S0 , which is used to select which of the signals applied to MUX 660 at a 1D or 10 terminal will be generated at an output of MUX 660. The DAT0 signal is applied to the I1 and I1 input terminals of MUX 658 and MUX 660, respectively. The Finally, block 130 of receiver 100 includes a data cell status decoder portion 668 139 on Fig. 1B which includes the aforementioned OR gate 652. Gate 652 receives at a second input terminal the IACP signal and at a third input terminal the signal generated at the output terminal of a NAND gate 670 which, in turn, receive the signal generated at the output of OR gates 672 and 674. OR gate 672 receives the VAL, OVAL and DAT0 signals OR gate 674 receives the Portion 668 also includes an XOR gate 678 which receives the VAL and OVAL signals and generates therefrom a DATA The logic diagram of Receive Decode Logic block 140 of Receiver 100 is shown in Figs. 10A and 10B. A preamble detector portion 700 142 on Fig. 1B is shown in Fig. 7A, which receives the CLK16, EOM 1 4, 1 4, DATA, MUX 714 and 716 receive at their 1D input terminals the output generated at the MUX 720, 722, respectively, receives at its control input S0 the output signal generated by an OR gate 728, 730, respectively, receiving, in turn the PD1 and PD0 signals, the PD0, P1 and The Preamble Detector 700 generates at NOR gates 746 and 748, CP1 and CP2 signals, respectively, each receiving the IMODE, PD2 and Section 750 includes a flip flop 754 receives at its data D input the signal generated by an OR gate 756 which, in turn, receives at a first input terminal the signal generated by a two input, one output MUX 758. MUX 758 receives at its control input S0 the 1 4 signal, which signal is used to select which of the signals applied to MUX 758 at its 1Q or 1D terminal will be generated at its output terminal. A second input terminal of OR gate 756 receives the signal generated at the output of a AND gate receiving, in turn, the EOM 1 4 signal and the signal generated at the output of an OR gate 762 receiving at a first input the DP1 signal generated at the Q output of flip flop 754 . Flip flop 754 also receives the CLK16 signal at its clock input. The DP1 signal generated at the Section 750 also includes a flip flop 766 receiving at its data D input terminal the signal generated by an OR gate 768, which, in turn, receives the EOM 1 4 signal and the signal generated at the complemented output of a two input, one output MUX 770. Flip flop 766 generates at its complemented As shown on Fig. 7B, section 752 includes a flip flop 780 received at its data D input the signal generated by a two input, one output MUX 782. MUX 782 receives at its control input S0 the 1 4 signal, which signal is used to select which of the signals applied to MUX 758 at its 1Q or 1D terminal will be generated at its output terminal. The DP0 signal generated at the Q output terminal of flip flop 780 is conducted to the 1D input terminal of MUX 782. The signal generated at the complemented Section 572 also includes a flip flop 784 receiving at its data D input terminal the signal generated by an OR gate 786, which, in turn, receives the EOM 1 4 signal and the signal generated at the complemented output of a two input, one output MUX 788. Flip flop 784 generates at its complemented Finally, the logic diagram of Output Synthesizer block 160 of Receiver 160 is shown on Fig. 8 consisting of an Advanced Carrier Presence Synthesizer portion 800 162 on Fig. 1B , an External Receive clock and Carrier presence synthesis portion 802 164 on Fig. 1B and a Receive Data and Carrier Sense Synthesizer portion 804 166 on Fig. 1B . As shown on Fig. 8, portion 800 includes a two input, one output MUX 806 which receives the DPLLON signal at a control input S0 which signal is used by MUX 806 to select which of the signals applied to MUX 806 at a 1Q or a 1D terminal will be generated at an output of MUX 806. The Portion 802 includes a D type flip flop 820 which receives at its data D input the signal generated by an OR gate 822 which, in turn, receives the RESET signal and the signal generated by an OR gate 824 receiving the Portion 804 includes a D type flip flop 834 which receives at its data D input the signal generated by an OR gate 836 which, in turn, receives the RESET signal and the signal generated at the complemented output terminal of an XOR gate 838 receiving the The Manchester encoded Receiver 100 of the instant invention generates several key internal interface signals. Related to the detection of line activity function of the Receiver 100 are the following internal signals internal advance carrier presence IACP which indicates if there is line activity. A line signal having a differential voltage greater than the positive carrier presence level or less than the negative carrier presence level will cause Receiver 100 to set IACP HIGH and to retain this value until there is no line signal having such a differential voltage for two consecutive bit times. A second internal signal is advanced carrier sense ACS which indicates if the line activity which caused the Receiver 100 to set IACP HIGH is valid Manchester encoded data. The Receiver 100 sets An edge EDGE internal signal is set HIGH whenever the Receiver 100 detects a ZERO crossing by the input line data. A clock recovery preset CRESET signal is set HIGH for one clock cycle following the next line data edge EDGE HIGH after the line activity is detected, IACP HIGH , and the data qualification is complete ACS HIGH . CRESET is set HIGH once during reception of input line data by Receiver 100. A line acquisition LA signal is set HIGH following CRESET set HIGH until a physical line quiet or logical decoded end of message. The data sampling signals 1 4 and 3 4 are used to determine whether the line input data is valid Manchester encoded. The line data is sampled at a 1 4 and a 3 4 interval from the start of an the current intra bit time interval. A DATA signal is set HIGH if the decoded line data is valid Manchester encoded based on the opposite logical polarity at the 1 4 and 3 4 sample times . A logical end of message EOM 1 4 is set HIGH whenever no line activity is detected and will be reset LOW when CRESET is set HIGH and will remain LOW until the logical end of message or LA is set LOW. A digital phase locked loop on DPLLON signal is set HIGH on the 1 4 sample interval after the CRESET and LA signals have been set HIGH. The HIGH DPLLON signal indicator that the line activity detection function of the Receiver 100 has been accomplished and that the Receive Supervisor can start to generate the external receive output signals RxC and RxD. Accordingly, a HIGH DPLLON signal must be followed by a resetting of DPLLON to LOW before the Receiver 100 can begin line activity detection again. With reference to FIG. 1, the CRESET and EDGE signals generated by the Receive Data Interpreter and Supervisor 130 and the DPLLON signal generated by the Receive Decode Logic 140 portions of receiver 100 are applied to a Receive Clock Recovery 150 block of receive 100. Briefly, the method used by Receive Clock Recovery 150 is that a recovered clock oscillator portion 152 530 on Fig. 5 of block 150 is asynchronous at a frequency approximately 16 times the inter bit frequency of the line input data until a HIGH CRESET signal is received from the receive supervisor portion 136 of block 130. At this time, which will be at approximately the midpoint of the first Manchester encoded cell received following detection of line activity A Receive Clock recovery logic portion 154 574 on Fig. 5 receives four signals an extra phase locked loop XPLL signal, a complemented phase locked loop 2 The HIGH Recovered clock to data clock phase detector 156 receives the The method used by the Receive Clock Recovery 150 of the present invention is to adjust the recovered clock oscillator by tracking the data edge The shorten register comprises an internally clocked delay flip flop 584 generating a The Boolean equations governing the operation of the shorten register 584 is accordingly Hence a HIGH SHORTEN signal will be generated at the next internal clock following the 3 4 sampling i.e., at 13 16 of the interbit period from the mid period if the EDGE signal is received coincident with all three LOW phase locked loop signals generated by oscillator block 152 indicating that none of the stages of the counter implementing the recovered clock oscillator 152 had been set simultaneously with or prior to reception of the The center register similarly comprises an internally clocked delay flip flop 596 generating a CENTER signal at its Q output and a Hence a HIGH CENTER signal will be generated at the next internal clock following the 3 4 sampling if the EDGE signal is received coincident with the generation of a HIGH signal for only the first two phase locked loop signals generated by oscillator block 152, indicating either synchronization with the reception of the Similarly the lengthen register is governed by the Boolean equations Hence a HIGH LENGTHEN signal will be generated at the next internal clock following the 3 4 sampling if the EDGE signal is received coincident with HIGH signals for all three phase locked loop signals being generated by oscillator block 152, indicating an overrunning of the reception of the The The NOR gate 598 within oscillator 152 also receives the Accordingly, if both the Alternatively, if either the The counter within the recovered clock oscillator 152 530 on Fig. 5 consists of a four stage digital phase locked loop circuit with each stage comprising a multiplexing latch 532, 538, 546 and 554 connected via an OR gate 537, 544, 552 and 560, respectively, to the input of an associated internally clocked delay flip flop generating the true, and complemented, a least significant phase locked loop 0 PLL0, The selection inputs of the least significant and next to least significant multiplexing 532 and 538 latches are as described above. The selection input to the latch associated with the flip flop 550 generating the PLL2, These interconnections result in a clock recovery state machine describing the operation of the recovered clock oscillator 152 as shown in Table I, below, in which the value of the true signals XPLL, PLL3, PLL2, PLL1, PLL0 are indicated as L for LOW and H for HIGH. With reference to Table I, the fourth line refers to the state S at which a 1 4 sample signal is generated by the receive clock recovery logic 154 using the output of a NOR gate receiving the XPLL, PLL3 AND Lines five, six and seven correspond to the SHORTEN window and by reference to the Boolean equation, above, for SHORTEN Similarly, the eighth line of Table I corresponds to the CENTER window state W20 and by reference to the Boolean equation, above, for CENTER Finally, the ninth, tenth ,and eleventh lines of Table I correspond to the LENGTHEN window and by reference to the Boolean equation, above, for LENGTHEN, show that during the corresponding lengthen window states W30, W31 and W32, the three signals XPLL, PLL3 and PLL2 will be HIGH and therefore, a HIGH EDGE signal received during any of these states will cause the HIGH LENGTHEN signal to be generated, as required by the Boolean equation. The twelfth line of Table I refers to the state S1 at which a 3 4 sample signal is generated by the receive clock recovery logic 154 using the output of a NOR gate 572 receiving the XPLL, The logic interconnections described for the selection inputs to the multiplexing latches of the counter within oscillator 152, above, cause the transition from one state to the next according to their position in Table I, i.e., beginning at reset, the counter changes from W30 to W31, then to W32, etc. However, because the selection inputs to the least significant latch and to the next to least significant latch depend on the