# Disposable garment having high absorbency area

## Claims
Absorbierendes Wegwerfkleidungsstück mit einerundurchlässigen Unterlage 12 , einer durchlässigen,körperseitigen Auskleidung 14 und einemAbsorptionsmittel zwischen der undurchlässigen Unterlageund der körperseitigen Auskleidung, wobei die vordereHälfte 3 des Kleidungsstückes durch Faltlinien in einvorderes, zentrales Feld 43 und zwei Seitenlappen 42,44 geteilt ist, und die hintere Hälfte 5 in einhinteres, zentrales Feld 50 und zwei Seitenlappen 45,47 geteilt ist, und die vordere Hälfte 3 desKleidungsstückes vollständig einen Bereich hoherAbsorptionsfähigkeit 40 enthält,

## Description
This invention relates to a disposable garment,such as a diaper. More particularly, the inventionrelates to an absorbent garment comprising animpervious backing, a permeable body side liningand an absorbent between said impervious backingand said body side lining, the front of the garmentbeing divided by fold lines into a front center paneland two side ears, the back being divided into aback center panel and two side ears. A garment ofthis type is disclosed in GB A 2127674. Disposable diapers typically have a substantiallyrectangular absorbent pad and side portionsthat are folded toward each other that is, towardthe longitudinal center line of the diaper andagainst the pad. However, the fold portions areusually positioned such that the opposing edges ofthe fold portions do not reach each other, but arespaced apart. Where the fold portions include padmaterial, a space between the folded edges havinga thickness approximately equal to the thickness ofthe pad material in the fold portions is formedbetween the fold portions. In those types of diapersin which the pad is shaped or contoured to form anarrower central portion to allow space for thewearer s legs, the volume of the void space betweenthe opposite edges of the fold portions increasessubstantially. In addition to the longitudinalside portions being folded toward each other andagainst the central portion of the diaper, for purposesof packaging, the front and rear sections ofthe diaper are folded into engagement with eachother along a transverse line dividing the diaperinto front and rear sections. The void spaces betweenthe longitudinal fold portions in the frontsection and in the the rear section of the diaper arethus combined to form a single larger void space inthe fully folded diaper which, to the extent that it isretained after the diaper is placed in a package, iswasted space. To the extent that the folded diaperis compressed to eliminate the void space, thediaper is distorted to decrease absorbent capacity,to detract from the appearance of the diaper andcreate packaging problems when using automatichigh speed packaging equipment. A related foldingproblem involves the folding of the side portions,including the absorbent material they contain, consistentlyalong a longitudinal fold line, to provide auniform width diaper when fully folded. Similar tofolding of the front and rear sections of the diapertogether, uniform folding of the diaper side portionsenhances the appearance of the diaper and minimizespackaging problems. Another problem which is common to disposablediapers is the need for increased fluid absorbentcapacity. One of the areas of the diaper atwhich it is particularly important to have a largeamount of absorbent capacity is in the front portionof the diaper because this is the area normallydirectly wetted by infants and because of the tendencyof urine to flow to this area of the diaperwhen the baby is crawling or sleeping. There havebeen a wide variety of suggested solutions forincreasing the absorbent capacity of the diaper ingeneral and increasing the absorbent capacity ofthe diaper in the frontal region in particular. Typicalof these is the arrangement illustrated in U.S. Patent3,926,189 to Taylor. This patent discloses amain pad having an auxiliary portion extendingfrom the main pad at approximately the transversecenterline of the diaper. The auxiliary pad portionmay be folded forward to the front area of thediaper when the baby is in a sleeping position orthe diaper is to be worn by a boy baby to therebygain the increased front absorbent capacity. FR A 2148 170 discloses an absorbent garmentsubstantially divided in which the front centerpanel has an absorbing higher than that of the backcenter panel. It has been disclosed in GB A 2 127 674,having commonassignment and inventor, that a particularly desirablediaper can be formed by placing one or twoauxiliary pad s into the front of the diaper suchthat the diaper may be formed with increased absorbencybut nevertheless be still folded in aboutthe same thickness for packaging. However, thereremains a need for a diaper with increased absorbencyin the front portion that is particularly convenientand low cost to commercially form. An object of this invention is to provide anoptimum distribution of absorbent in a disposablegarment such that the absorbent will be utilizedeffectively by the wearer but not provide a bulkygarment. Another object of this invention is to provide alow cost method of forming a disposable garmenthaving a high absorbency region. An additional object of this invention is to providean absorbent disposable garment that hasminimum leakage and maximum use of absorbent. These and other objects of the invention aregenerally accomplished by providing an absorbentgarment of the type defined in claim 1. It is preferred thatabout 40 percent of the total absorbency is in the center fronthigh absorbency panel. Figure 1 is a perspective view of a disposablediaper. Figure 1A is a perspective view of a diaper ofthe invention having an elastic waist. Figure 2 is a plan view of a disposable diaperin accordance with the invention. Figure 3 is a cross section along line 3 3 ofFigure 2. Figure 4 is a perspective view of a foldeddiaper in accordance with the invention. Figure 5 is a side elevational view of a partialand cross section on line 5 5 of the diaper inFigure 4. Figure 6 is a plan view of a diaper in accordancewith the invention after the sides are folded. Figure 7 is a perspective view of a portion of adebulking line for the absorbent pads of the invention. Figure 8 is a perspective view of a portion ofapparatus for debulking pads of the invention inwhich the debulking rolls are indented in the areaof greater absorbency. Figure 9 is a plan view of the absorbent inaccordance with the invention with panels of absorbencyindicated. The diaper of the invention has numerous advantagesover prior diapers. The invention allowsthe formation of a diaper having an area of highabsorbency that to the casual observer or userdoes not appear to be undesirably thick and heavyin one area. The diaper may be folded flat forconvenient packaging and storage without wastinglarge volumes of space. The diaper is less subjectto leakage than previous diapers. The diaper is lowin cost to form as the absorbent may be formed ina single step much as previous absorbent pads ofdiapers without high absorption areas were formed.These and other advantages will be apparent fromfurther description of the invention below. GB A 2 127 674discloses a diaperthat uses one or two auxiliary pads to make anarea of high absorbency in the front of the diaper.It is disclosed therein that the auxiliary pad s isgenerally a separate piece s of absorbent that isplaced onto an underlying layer of absorbent toincrease the absorbency in the front area while stillallowing folding and compact stacking of the diaper.It is also disclosed therein that the auxiliarypads may be formed as an integral unit. It has nowbeen found that a novel and particularly preferredmethod of forming a diaper with an entire integralpad is possible with careful control of the amountof absorbency of the front half of the diaper andparticularly the amount of absorbent in the high absorbencyarea of the center front panel betweenthe diaper s folds. The invention further provides adiaper having a middle back panel of higher absorbencythan the wings outer thirds of either theback or front of the diaper. Further, it has beenfound that the high absorbency area is suitable foruse with an elastic waist diaper for improved performance.These and other advantages of the inventionwill become apparent from the detaileddescription below. With reference to drawings, the disposable diapershown in Figures 1 and 1A is in an unfoldedcondition ready to be fitted to the wearer. Thedisposable diaper is shown as having a main padassembly 2 and a pair of waist fastening tapes 4and 6. As shown in the embodiments of Figures 1and 1A, the diaper also has leg elastic means 8and 10 as well as waist elastic 7 and 9 in Figure1A. As shown in Figures 1 and 1A, the diaper has alongitudinal centerline Y Y. The transverse centerlineX X running through the crotch section delineatesthe front section 3 from the rear section 5 ofthe diaper. Both fastening tapes 4 and 6 are shownin Figures 1 and 1A in extended condition ready tobe attached to the front section 3 of the diaperwhen it is placed on the wearer. Leg elastic means8 and 10 comprise lengths of elastic material 18and 20 attached to the outer cover sheet 12 or theliner sheet 14 or both, and positioned between thecover sheet and the liner sheet substantially parallelto the longitudinal centerline Y Y of the diaper. With reference to Figures 2 and 3 of the diaper,the front of the diaper has a thicker highabsorbency area 40 centered in the front 3 andextending from the center crotch fold shown by X Xto almost the edge of the front portion of theabsorbent pad. The front portion has high basisweight and high absorbency area 40 in the frontcenter panel 43 of the diaper and lower basisweight hence lower absorbency areas 42 and 44,forming the less absorbent containing ears of the diaper which are lapped around the sides of thewearer in use. The diaper as shown has waistelastic 46 in the front of the diaper 3, formingelasticized area 9. The back of the garment haselastic 48 forming elasticized areas 7 when thediaper elastic is in relaxed condition. It is noted thatin Figure 2 the diaper is in extended condition. Theabsorbency of the center panel of the back of thediaper 50 is preferably generally higher than thewings or ears 28 and 30. The wings or ear portions 42 and 44 in thefront and 45 add 47 in the back of the diaper haveless absorbency than the center back panel or thecenter front panel. The center back panel 50 preferablyhas less absorbency than the front centerpanel 43. The fold lines 25 and 27 are the dividinglines for the center panels and ear panels. Thecenter panels 43 and 50 are slightly wider than athird the width of the diaper. However, the proportionof absorbent is greater in the center panels 43and 50, both because the absorbent is preferablythicker there and because the width of the absorbentin the ears 42, 44, 45 and 47 is much lessthan that in the middle section of the diaper as theabsorbent does not extend to the edge of thediaper. The diaper may be considered as havingsix sections or panels. The front of the garment ordiaper 3 has a center high absorbency panel 43,and two wings or ears 24 and 26. The garmentback 5 has center back panel 50 of greater absorbencythan the wings 28 and 30. As used herein,the back of the garment is the portion that is wornon the back of the wearer and the front of thegarment is the portion worn on the front of thewearer. It is noted that the high absorbency area40 of front panel 43 has a centered portion 54 ofgreatest thickness with gradually raising areas 56and 58. The illustration of Figure 2 further showsthe fold lines 25 and 27 that are utilized to fold theear portions of the diaper 24 and 26 over the lessthick portions of the high absorbency area 40. Theback ear portions 28 and 30 also are folded simultaneouslyat this time along the fold lines 25and 27. Figure 6 illustrates the diaper after the ears 24,26, 28 and 30 have been folded. It is noted that thediaper tapes 4 and 6 are in their closed positionswhen the diaper is folded. Also shown is the outlineof the higher absorbent portion 40 of the diaper. Figures 4 and 5 illustrate the completely foldedgarment of the invention as it would be folded forpackaging. In the cross sectional view of Figure 5 itis seen that the high absorbency area 40 is adaptedto be placed between the folded absorbentportions of ears 26 and 24 so as to form a compactpackage. As is illustrated in Figures 7 and 8 the absorbentmember 50 was formed on a air former thathas an indentation allowing the build up of a largerportion of fluff in the area 40 of the front panel 43where the high absorbent area is to be formed. Thecenter back panel is preferably formed with a higherabsorbency than the wings. The absorbent 50after leaving the former not shown is passed ontoa belt where debulking compression rolls 70 and72 compress the material to provide it with morestrength and to debulk it for easier handling in thediaper. The formation of air formed fibrous panelsof varying thickness are known in the art. Typical ofsuch formation techniques are those of U.S.4,005,957 Savich, U.S. 4,016,628 Kolbach andU.S 4,388,056 Lee et al. The formation may becarried out by any desired technique. It is notedthat the roll 70 has an area 74 that is slightlyindented in the area where the high absorbencymaterial is located. This offset or indentation is arelatively small deviation from the surface level ofthe roll generally being only about 0,254cm 0.1inch . The pile of fluff from the high absorbencyarea is about 2 inches prior to compression. Distancebetween the debulking rolls 70 and 72 isabout 0.38cm 0.15 inches in the offset areas andabout 0.127cm 0.05 inches in the remainder ofthe rolls. After compression the connected piecesof absorbent are severed at lines 76, 78, and 80,and assembled into the diaper in a conventionalmanner. It is noted that the leg cutouts 82 may beformed either prior to compression or they may becut out after compression if the pad is not formedinitially in the shape of the absorbent pad desired.In Figure 8 a similar system is illustrated exceptthat the debulking rolls 90 and 92 are provided witha cavity 94 that corresponds to the high absorbencyareas. The use of the roll that has theindentations is preferred for diaper optimum performance.The depth of the indentations or cavitiesbelow the roll surface is preferred to be about0,254cm 0.1 inch for the best combination ofcompact folded diaper and good absorbency. Thedistance between the rolls 90 and 92 in other areasis about 0,127cm 0.05 inches . However, the performancewith the uniform centered roll has beenfound to be almost as good and the processing ismuch simpler as the roll does not need to becalibrated closely with the fluff being carried beneathit. As is illustrated in Figure 9 the absorbent pad150 having the highest absorbency area 140 infront center panel 143 is composed of the area ofgreater absorbency 154 with gradient areas 156and 158 blending into the lower absorbent areasthat will be the ears 190 and 192 of the front, andalso blending into the lesser absorbency back portions194, 196 and 198. The fold lines will be atareas 195 and 197, with the crotch fold along lineX X. The back of pad 150 is made up of a higher absorbency center panel area 194 and lower absorbencyareas 196 and 198. The amount of the diaper absorbent in the fronthigh absorbency area may be any desired effectiveamount. It is generally preferred that the high absorbencyarea has between about 30 percentand about 50 percent of the total absorbency of thediaper. It is particularly preferred that the amount ofabsorbent in the high absorbency area be about 40for best performance, particularly in a diaper intendedfor nighttime use. The preferred amount ofabsorbent in the center back panel is betweenabout 20 and about 30 percent of the diaper s totalfor best absorbency and folding. The garment sears each have between about 5 and about 10percent of the total wood fluff for good fit andfolding. The amount of extra absorbencygives an amount of about 35 percent of the totalabsorbent in the back of the diaper, and about 65percent of the total absorbent in the front, with theabsorbent in the front preferably divided such thatof the 65 percent in the front, about 40 percent isin the center front panel extra absorbency area andabout 15 percent as the combined total of the frontwings. The integral pad with extra absorbency area issuitable for use as the absorbent in a diaper thathas no elastic, a diaper that has elastic legs, or adiaper that has elastic legs and also an elasticizedwaist. It is particularly suitable for a diaper with anelasticized waist and legs as it offers absorbency inthe front area for absorption of liquid that is containedby the elastic waist when the wearers aresleeping on their stomachs. The preferred material for the absorbent of thegarment is fluff that is divellicated wood pulp. Generallyit is preferred that the height or thickness ofthe area of high absorbency be between about1.27cm and about 2.032cm 0.5 and 0.8 inch afterdebulking, with the ears of the front of the diaperand the back of the diaper having a height of about0,51 to 1,27cm .2 to 5 inch It is quite surprisingthat the extra absorbency can be so effective withonly the small 0,76 to 1,524cm .3 to .6 inch difference in height between the lesser absorbentwings and the extra absorbent front center panelareas after debulking. The larger size differenceswould be in the large toddler size diapers. The length of the higher absorbency area withinthe center front panel is generally between about22.86 and about 13.97cm 9 and 5.5 inches withthe larger length being in the toddler size diaperand the small in the newborn diaper. The preferredwidth of the extra absorbency area with the centerfront panel is about 6.35 to about 11.43cm 2.5 to4.5 inches . However, it noted that the width of theextra absorbency area is dependent on the foldlines of the particular diaper. The high absorbencyarea preferably is less than the width between thefold lines in order to result in a compact foldeddiaper. The width of the center panel is generallybetween about 10.16 and about 12.7cm 4 and 5inches . The total weight of absorbent develicatedcellulose fluff in a newborn size diaper generally isabout 30 grams dry weight. The weight of woodfluff absorbent in a medium diaper typically isabout 45 grams dry weight and the dry weight in atoddler is typically about 57 grams. As discussedbelow, an equivalent amount of absorptive capacitycould be achieved using other materials that wouldhave a different dry weight of absorptive material. The wood fluff may be formed by a vacuum ona forming drum with vacuum of about 63,5cm 25inches of water. The screen on the forming drumis indented to form the thicker areas where desired.Depth of fluff in the extra absorbency area is generallybetween about 3.81 and 6.36cm 1 1 2 and 2 1 2inches prior to compaction. The depth in the otherareas prior to compression by the debulking rolls isbetween about 1,27 and about 1,905 cm 1 2 and ¾inch .It is preferred that the height of fluff in theextra absorbency area be between about 1 3 4 andabout 2 inches prior to debulking for best highabsorbency and good fit. While the highest absorption area in the centerfront has been described as thicker and containingmore absorbent wood fiber, it is possible that thehigher zones of absorbency could also alternativelybe formed by use of zoned superabsorbent materials.Such a diaper could have a proportionallythinner pad and a lower weight of wood pulp fluff orcould have a single thickness pad but be providedin the front center panel and to a lesser degree inthe rear center panel with superabsorbent materialto increase the absorbency in those areas withoutthe absorbent being significantly thicker. Typical ofsuperabsorbent materials are water insolublehydocolloidal particles derived from starches thatwill swell but not dissolve when exposed to water.Other superabsorbents are formed from hydrolyzedcross linked polyacrylates, polyacrylamides, polymersof acrylic polymers and salts and copolymersthereof. While the term weight of absorbent and amount of absorbency may be used as equivalentsfor the wood fiber absorbent, this is not truefor superabsorbent containing articles. The dryweight, and liquid holding ability for superabsorbentcontaining materials are not equivalents when partof the absorbency of the garment is the result ofthe superabsorbent that absorbs a greater amountof liquid for the same dry weight than does woodfluff. As illustrated above, the invention provides adesirable diaper with a high absorbency area thathas an ease of formation, good appearance, and folding properties. While the invention has beendescribed in conjunction with specific embodimentsthereof, it is evident that many alternatives, modificationsin variations should be apparent to thoseskilled in the art in light of the foregoing description.For instance while described with infant diapersthe invention also could be used with incontinentgarments. Accordingly, it is intended to embraceall such alternatives, modifications and variationsas fall within the scope of the appendedclaims.