# MICROBIAL CO CULTURE PRODUCTION OF PROPIONIC ACID

## Claims
Gleichzeitig ablaufendes sequentielles anaerobes Fermentierungsverfahren für die in vitro Herstellung von Propionsäure und Essigsäure, dadurch gekennzeichnet, daß

## Description
This invention relates to a process for the production of lactic acid or its salts and propionic acid and or acetic acid or its salts by the catabolism of carbohydrate feedstocks utilizing a simultaneous two stage bacterial fermentation process. In a first stage, carbohydrates are converted to lactic acid, e.g. by saccharolytic bacteria such as Propionic acid is used commercially as an esterifying agent, in the production of cellulose propionate a thermoplastic , and as a naturally occurring bacterial fermentation metabolite in cheese and other dairy products. Salt forms of the free acid such as calcium or sodium propionate are used as preservatives in food products to inhibit fungal growth, as well as and in manufacturing ester solvents, fruit flavors, and perfume bases. Traditional means of producing propionic acid have been via bacterial fermentation using strains of the genus Propionibacteria of the genus Accordingly, it is a general object of the present invention to provide a process for the microbial co culture of propionic acid in high yields. Another object of the present invention is to provide such a process which provides high yields in dramatically shorter fermenter residence periods. A further object of the present invention is to provide such a process wherein the lactic acid metabolic product of one microorganism serves as a feedstock for the production of propionic acid by a second microorganism. An additional object of the present invention is to provide such a process which converts a major portion of lactic acid from a variety of feedstocks into propionic acid. A more particular object of the present invention is to provide a novel co culture of microorganisms for use in such a process. Upon study of the specification and appended claims, further objects, features and advantages of the present invention will become more fully apparent to those skilled in the art to which this invention pertains. Briefly, the above and other objects, features and advantages of the present invention are attained in one aspect thereof by providing a process for the Suitable feedstocks for the microbial production of lactic acid are well known in the art and include but are not limited to those described in the foregoing U.S. Patents and numerous other publications, e.g. see M. Brin, The choice of a microorganism for producing lactic acid for use in accordance with the present invention will of course depend on the particular feedstock components to be converted to lactic acid, for which many suitable microorganisms are well known in the art. Because clarified dairy whey lactose permeate is the presently preferred feedstock for use in the present invention, The choice of a second microorganism for converting the lactic acid metabolic product of the first microorganism into propionic acid requires the selection of a microorganism having the ability to ferment lactic acid into propionic acid and other end products. Several such bacteria are well known and widely available in the art for such purposes, e.g. as has been described in British Patent 1,251,483 U.S. Patents 3,857,971 and 4,138,498 and by Huber et al. in The sequential treatment of feedstock to first form lactic acid and then form propionic acid suffers from a number of inherent difficulties. In the first stage, the accumulation of lactic acid product eventually slows the feedstock conversion due to mass balance effects and lowering of the pH. While the latter can be adjusted, this introduces an additional risk of contamination whereas removal of lactic acid product involves removing both unconverted feedstock and the converting microorganism. In the second stage, an undesired lactate concentration will remain if the pH is not controlled, and introducing unconverted feedstock provides an opportunity for the microorganism to employ metabolic pathways leading to the formation of undesired products. In accordance with the present invention, it has now been found that the above and other difficulties can be overcome by the catabolism of carbohydrates using a simultaneous two stage bacterial fermentation process. In the first stage, carbohydrates are converted to lactic acid by the saccharolytic bacterium, Parent strains of CLS917 These broth cultures were incubated anaerobically for 24 hours at separate temperatures to determine the optimum for stable growth of both strains. The optimum temperature was determined to be 38 C estimated by the number of viable cells of each strain. Viable and healthy bacterial cells of both mutant strains were added to a chopped meat broth culture medium prepared as described by Holdeman and Moore, The size of the viable cell population of The co culture can be maintained in sealed vials in aliquots of 0.2 milliliters containing equal volumes of sterile glycerol and tryptone broth culture medium previously described at a temperature of 80 C. Each aliquot should contain equal numbers of both strains approximately one hundred million bacterial cells each previously harvested from healthy growing cultures. This co culture of The metabolism of a fermentable carbohydrate in a suitable nutrient medium by strains of Volatile and non volatile fatty acids were determined by gas liquid chromatographic procedures as described by Holdeman and Moore The presently preferred best mode of this invention is the cultivation of the two bacterial strains in a nutrient growth medium sufficient to provide for a stable co culture using the two broth media previously described or in the media described in the following Examples. Specifically, a mixed culture of two bacterial strains The conditions of the fermentation include a temperature range generally between 20 40 C, but preferably between 35 40 C a means of agitating the fermentation mixture at speed of up to 400 revolutions per minute, but preferably in the range of 150 250 revolutions per minute and a pH generally in the range of 4.0 to 9.0, but preferably in the range of 5.5 to 6.0 for optimum propionic acid production. Additionally, the growth medium should preclude dissolved oxygen by preventing air flow or exchange of gases which could result in an increase in the concentration of dissolved oxygen and thereby interfere with anaerobic metabolism. Generally, the rate of the fermentation of substrate is approximately 1 to 10 millimoles per hour, preferably at least 5 millimoles per hour. Without further elaboration, it is believed that one skilled in the art can, using the preceding description, utilize the present invention to its fullest extent. The following preferred specific embodiments are, therefore, to be construed as merely illustrative and not limitative of the remainder of the disclosure in any way whatsoever. In the following Examples, the temperatures are set forth uncorrected in degrees Celsius unless otherwise indicated, all parts and percentages are by weight. The pH of the fermentation must be maintained within the range of generally pH 5.0 to 9.0 or preferably 5.3 to 7.3. Any of several compounds acting as a Lewis Base can be used for this purpose. Hydroxides of ammonium this includes ammonia gas, which hydrates in aqueous solutions to form ammonium hydroxide , sodium, calcium, or potassium salts can be used without deleterious effects on the fermentation. However, the divalent inorganic metal oxides, e.g. calcium hydroxide and the corresponding oxides which hydrate in aqueous solution to form the corresponding hydroxide appear to function better as a pH control agent than the monovalent cation hydroxides. In this experiment, the two strains CLS917 and 1218 were cultivated in three liters of a medium containing as final concentrations based on the medium lactose, 2 , supplied as either whole whey or ultrafiltered whey permeate yeast extract, 1.0 and 60 millimolar of carbonate buffer of the same cation as the hydroxide except in the case of ammonium hydroxide and ammonium gas, where calcium carbonate was used . The conditions of the fermentation included a temperature of 38 C, maintenance of pH between 5.5 and 6.0 by the automatic or manual addition of pH control agent, and continuous stirred agitation in a New Brunswick Fermenter at a speed of 200 revolutions per minute. Aliquots were removed at the beginning of the fermentation and at 4, 8, 12, 24, and 48 hours during the fermentation. These samples were analyzed for acetic ACET , propionic PROP and lactic LACT acids using the methodology previously described. Concentrations in mg ml of these metabolic acid products from the 24 hour samples are presented in Table 3. Both strains CL5917 In this experiment the two strains CLS917 and 1218 were cultivated in three liters of a medium containing lactose, 2 , supplied as either whole whey or ultrafiltered whey permeate yeast extract, 1.0 and 60 millimolar calcium carbonate. The conditions of the fermentation included a temperature of 38 C, maintenance of pH between 5.5 and 6.0 by the automatic or manual addition of pH control agent, and continuous stirred agitation in a Cell Stir Jar Bellco Glass Co. at a speed of 200 revolutions per minute. Aliquots were removed at the beginning of the fermentation and at 4, 8, 12, 24, and 48 hours during the fermentation. These samples were analyzed for acetic ACET , propionic PROP and lactic LACT acids using the methodology previously described. Concentrations of these metabolic acid products from the 24 hour samples in which either a reducing agent, inert gas or neither were used.are presented in Table 4. It is evident from these data that standard fermentation preparations are sufficient under the conditions employed to prevent toxic concentrations of dissolved oxygen in the fermentation medium. Strains of Any desired ratio of propionic acid to lactic acid can be produced by manipulation of the conditions of the fermentation, with or without the subsequent inclusion of additional substrate. This Example demonstrates the effects on the production of metabolic acid products by the variation of pH. In this experiment, the two strains CLS917 and 1218 were cultivated in three liters of a medium containing lactose 2 supplied as whole whey yeast extract 1.0 and 60 millimolar calcium carbonate. The conditions of the fermentation included a temperature of 38 C, maintenance of pH between 5.5 and 6.0 during the first 24 hour period by the automatic or manual addition of ammonium hydroxide, and continuous stirred agitation in a New Brunswick Fermenter at a speed of 200 revolutions per minute. Aliquots were removed at the beginning of the fermentation and at 8, 24, 32, and 48 hours during the fermentation. The results are summarized in Table 5 Whole sweet cheese whey was used in a fermentation medium to which the two strains CLS917 and 1218 were added. In 250 liters of a medium containing lactose, 4 , supplied as whole whey 5 , with 2.5 added in the beginning of the fermentation and 2.5 added after 24 hours yeast extract, 1.0 and 60 millimolar calcium carbonate. The conditions of the fermentation included a temperature of 38 C, maintenance of pH between 5.5 and 6.0 by the automatic or manual addition of calcium hydroxide, and continuous stirred agitation in a New Brunswick Fermenter at a speed of 200 revolutions per minute. Aliquots were removed at the beginning of the fermentation and at 16, 24, 32, and 48 hours during the fermentation. These samples were analyzed for acetic ACET , propionic PROP and lactic LACT acids using the methodology previously described. Concentrations of these metabolic acid products from the 24 hour samples are presented in Table 6. A pilot plant production of calcium propionate by the fermentation of whole sweet whey was conducted in the following medium lactose, 4 , supplied as whole sweet whey present initially at 2.5 with a subsequent addition of 2.5 after 16 hours yeast extract Amber 510 , 1.0 and calcium carbonate Huber Carb S 3 Following fermentation, the bacterial cells were removed by microfiltration through a Romican hollow fiber membrane having a 50,000 dalton cutoff pore size and the permeate was decolorized in an activated carbon slurry, concentrated by flash evaporation, and spray dried in a tower type drier air inlet temperature 150 160 C air outlet temperature 90 100 C to a free flowing, off white powder. The chemical and physical characteristics of this fermentation product are shown in Table 7. The lactose present in ultrafiltered sweet whey was also used as substrate in the fermentation of propionic acid by a co culture of strains CLS917 and 1218. A fermentation was conducted in the following medium lactose 2 supplied as dried sweet whey permeate ultrafilter size exclusion of 30,000 daltons and yeast extract 1.0 and CaCO₃ 0.6 . Fermentation conditions included a temperature of 38 C, maintenance of pH between 5.5 and 6.0 by the automatic or manual addition of ammonium hydroxide, and continuous stirred agitation in a New Brunswick Fermenter at a speed of 200 revolutions per minute. Aliquots were removed at the beginning of the fermentation and at 4, 8, and 24 hours during the fermentation. These samples were analyzed for acetic ACET , propionic PROP and lactic LACT acids using the methodology described in the preceding example. Concentrations of these metabolic acid products from the 24 hour samples are presented in Table 7. While lactose is the presently preferred substrate for use in the present invention, many other carbohydrates can serve as substrates for the production of metabolic acid products. One such carbohydrate that is frequently found in nature from non dairy sources is cellobiose, a disaccharide resulting from the partial digestion of cellulose. Following the general procedures described with reference to Table 2 demonstrates the co cultivation of strains CLS917 and 1218 on cellobiose with concomitant production of propionic, acetic and lactic acids. The results are summarized in Table 9. Propionic acid is not produced to a significant concentration by either strain alone. Calcium propionate has traditionally been used to increase the shelf life of breads and other bakery products by inhibition of the growth of molds. A fermentation of whole sweet whey in which the cells were removed and the resulting filtrate was concentrated and spray dried analagously to the process of Example 4 was used in bakery studies to determine the effects of the calcium propionate content to inhibit the growth of mold contamination. In this study, the spray dried and free flowing powder was used in two bakery recipes. In one recipe the dried product was added to the bread dough to a final concentration of 0.5 on a flour weight basis which resulted in a final calcium propionate concentration of approximately 0.25 . Additional active ingredients included 0.1 monocalcium phosphate and 0.9 Teklac The results of the study demonstrated that the dried fermentation product, when used at a concentration based upon the calcium propionate content traditionally employed in bread dough recipes, was effective at inhibiting the growth of mold contamination. The first and second recipes provided loaves of bread that did not demonstrate any mold growth after storage under standard condition up to and including thirty days, at which time the study was terminated. The third recipe which served as the control for the experiment provided loaves of bread which demonstrated mold growth after 7 to 10 days of storage. It is clear from this example that the use of this invention in the fermentation of the lactose present in whole sweet whey by the co cultivation of strains CLS917 The preceding examples can be repeated with similar success by substituting the generically or specifically described reactants and or operating conditions of this invention for those specifically used in the examples. From the foregoing description, one skilled in the art to which this invention pertains can easily ascertain the essential characteristics thereof and, without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention, can make various changes and modifications to adapt it to various usages and conditions. As can be seen from the present specification and examples, the present invention is industrially useful in providing a method for producing calcium propionate which has a variety of known industrial applications.