# MEDIUM WEIGHT ABRASION RESISTANT CASTABLE

## Claims
Gießbare Mischung mittleren Gewichtes zur Verwendung als feuerfestes Material, dadurch gekennzeichnet, daß sie auf einer Gewichtsprozent Basis enthält

## Description
This invention relates generally to refractory linings and more particularly concerns a medium weight abrasion resistant castable which may be used as a refractory lining. Oil refineries use a significant amount of refractory linings comprising a dual castable lining having a dense abrasion resistant working face and an insulating back up. The dual castable is formed from two separate bodies which are held together by the anchoring system when the steel shell is lined. The insulating material is initially applied to the steel shell and then the dense abrasion resistant material is applied to form the working face of the lining. The dense abrasion resistant face extends the life of the lining, but since its thermal conductivity is not sufficiently low, there must be an insulating layer behind the working face. Although such a refractory lining is adequate, since two layers must be installed, the time required to line the steel shell is significantly greater than if a single layer of castable material were used. As an alternative, the prior art has used a single dense abrasion resistant lining. However, to obtain adequate abrasion resistance, the refractory linings of the prior art have had to sacrifice the insulating value of the lining due to a higher thermal conductivity of the abrasion resistant hard aggregate material used. Further, the density of the material makes it more difficult to hold the lining against the steel shell. According to ASTM, C 401 on Classification of Castable Refractories, an Insulating Castable does not exceed a maximum bulk density of 105 lbs cu ft 1.7 gr. cm³ . Commonly used abrasion resistant products generally referred to as dense castables have a density which is generally greater than 130lbs cu ft 2.1 gr cm³ after being dried at 220 The principal object of the present invention is to provide a medium weight abrasion resistant castable for use as a refractory lining. A further object is to provide such a castable having a bulk density of less than 120 lbs cc ft 1.95 gr cm³ , an abrasion loss of less than 20 cm³ and a thermal conductivity of less than 5.5 BTU hr ft² in Other objects and advantages will appear hereinafter. The objects are accomplished by providing a castable in which the coarse aggregate has been replaced with a raw material which may not be as hard as the currently used coarse aggregate, but has a better insulating value to decrease the thermal conductivity of the castable, without causing an increase in abrasion loss. Such a material is cordierite, which is a synthetic mineral found in saggers for setting whiteware during firing. According to this invention, a medium weight castable composition, for use as a refractory, is characterised by comprising, on a weight percentage basis Another important factor to achieve the desired castable is the proper selection of grain size distribution of the aggregate used to form the castable. Strength and abrasion resistant are maximized by using a gap sized grain distribution. A desirable medium weight abrasion resistant castable has the following properties Bulk density 220 F or 104 C is measured after the material has been dried at 220 F 104 C . CCS 1500 F or 815 C is cold crushing strength which is the strength of the castable when placed in compression after having been fired to 1500 F 815 C and cooled to room temperature. MOR 1500 F or 815 C is modulus of rupture which is the strength of the castable when placed in flexure using a three point bend test after being fired to 1500 F 815 C . Linear change is the percent change in length of a rectangular shaped specimen between its initial length and its length recorded after the same specimen has been fired to 1500 F 815 C and cooled to room temperature. An allowable linear change of 0.5 means that the maximum allowable shrinkage is 0.5 . Abrasion resistance, also known as erosion loss, is measured in accordance with ASTM C 704 Abrasion Resistance of Refractory Materials at Room Temperature. The property requirements established for a dense weight abrasion resistant castable are as follows Note that the lowest thermal conductivity the prior art had been able to obtain for a dense weight castable was 7.0 BTU hr ft² in F 4.8 Kcal min cm² cm C which is significantly higher than for the present medium weight castable. The demand for a medium weight abrasion resistant castable has developed and is increasing. One major user of castables, Exxon, challenged the industry to meet the below identified requirements for a medium weight abrasion resistant castable but the industry failed to discover a product which would meet the criteria Therefore Exxon changed the upper limit for the thermal conductivity to 6.5 BTU hr ft² in F 4.5 Kcal min cm² cm C or 0.94 W m. C.m² . The best the prior art has been able to obtain in the laboratory is a medium weight castable having the following properties One member of the industry has been able to produce a castable having a thermal conductivity of 5.1 BTU hr ft² in F 3.5 Kcal min cm² cm C or, 0.74 W m. Other conventional castables have been produced having a density of 122 to 123 lbs cu ft 1.97 to 1.99 gr cm³ , abrasion loss 11 to 14 cm³ and thermal conductivity of 6.2 BTU hr ft² in F 4.3 Kcal min cm² cm Conventional castables comprise aggregate of calcined flint or calcined kaolin. These materials have good thermal conductivity and abrasion resistance. However, the density of the calcined flint and calcined kaolin causes the bulk density of the standard castable to be greater than 120 lbs cu ft 1.95 gr cm³ . Upon investigation of the abrasion test plates for the dense abrasion resistant product following the ASTM C 704 testing, it was noted that the coarse aggregate of calcined flint or calcined kaolin protruded in the wear area. Therefore, it was concluded that the matrix of intermediate grains and cement was abrading at a faster rate than the coarse aggregate. By replacing the coarse aggregate with a material that may not be as hard as the calcined flint or calcined kaolin, the abrasion wear between the coarse aggregate and matrix would be more even and therefore the abrasion loss would be similar to the dense abrasion resistant product. If a new less dense coarse aggregate were chosen which had a better insulating value and a comparable, but lower, hardness, the castable would wear as well as the dense product but with a decrease in thermal conductivity and bulk density. Therefore, the coarse aggregate should have a density of less than 120 lbs cm ft 1.95 gr cm³ . Cordierite, having a specific gravity of 2.57 2.66 g cm³ and a hardness of 7.05 7.5 Mohs in natural occurrence is such a material. Although cordierite is scarce in natural occurrence, synthetic cordierite is found in saggers used to set whiteware during firing. The saggers were found to contain cordierite and mullite as major phases with quartz as a minor phase. It is the cordierite in the saggers which results in reduced thermal conductivity without significantly increasing abrasion loss. The bulk density of the saggers is less than 120 lbs cm ft 1.95 gr cm³ . After the saggers begin to crack excessively, they are discarded and used as land fill. Therefore, not only do saggers containing cordierite have the desired properties, but also they are an inexpensive raw material. Other synthetic bodies containing cordierite may also be used in this product. To form the coarse aggregate of cordierite, the saggers must be crushed and sized by passing through a screen of proper mesh. The composition range and preferred composition for a medium weight abrasion resistant castable having the desired properties is listed below While the term 6X20M means a grain size 3.33 0.83 mm which will pass through a Tyler standard screen having a mesh designation of 6 mesh and not pass through a 20 mesh, the cordierite supplied and used in the composition is approximately 95 6x20M with the remainder being an aggregate of a smaller size. A typical grain size distribution is as follows Tyler Mesh 4 means a grain size greater than Tyler Mesh 4, i.e. greater than 0.47cm. Tyler Mesh 4 6 means a grain size less than Tyler Mesh 4 and greater than Tyler Mesh 6 ie, a grain size smaller than 4,7 mm and greater than 3,33 mm . The use of calcined kaolin, also known as calcined clay, is necessary to achieve the required hardness in the matrix for abrasion resistance. The use of cordierite having a size of 20 mesh 0,83 mm or less does not achieve the necessary abrasion resistance due to the lower hardness value of cordierite and because cordierite has a higher water absorption which requires more water to form the castable and therefore creates more porosity. Other known refractory materials such as calcined flint or fused silica may be used in place of the calcined kaolin. It is important to use two different sized fractions of the calcined kaolin. By forming the castable with an intermediate grain size of 20 mesh 0,83 mm and smaller of calcined kaolin and a finer sized grain of calcined kaolin of 100 mesh 0,147 mm or less, the most ideal grain packing is promoted. The calcined kaolin aggregate fills the gaps between the coarse aggregate of cordierite. This results in a maximization of strength and abrasion resistance. The calcined kaolin may be obtained from C E Minerals under the tradename Mulcoa 47. Mulcoa 47, 20 mesh 0,83 mm and Mulcoa 47, 100 mesh 0,147 mm have the following grain size distributions If less than the preferred amount of cordierite is used and is replaced with coarse aggregate of kaolin, the density of the castable would be increased. This increase may be offset by using a greater amount of fly ash cenospheres. A smaller grain size cordierite may be used. However the use of intermediate and finer grain size cordierite results in a softer, more porous matrix. The fly ash cenospheres are hard, lightweight intermediate grains having a bulk density of 24 lbs cu ft 0.4 gr cc and a particle size of approximately 48 400 mesh 0,295 0,038 mm . The use of the fly ash is necessary to reduce the bulk density of the castable. The cenospheres also improve the plasticity of the mix. Use of the fly ash does reduce the abrasion resistance, but is necessary to reduce the bulk density and maintain a low thermal conductivity. The fly ash cenospheres may be obtained from Fillite U.S.A., Inc. under the tradename Fillite 52 7 S. Other aggregate having similar hard, lightweight intermediate grains may be substituted for the fly ash cenospheres. The clay and fume silica are added to the composition to give a wide water range and add plasticity to the mix for better placement. The air floated clay is a reduced size fine clay. Ultrafine fume silica has a size of less than 50 micrometers and preferably less than 1 micrometers. Plasticizers may be used in place of the air floated clay. These fine particles fill the smaller pores in the mix thereby improving mechanical packing and abrasion resistance. The fine particles may be a combination of air floated clay and ultrafine or either floated clay or ultrafine alone. The air floated clay may be obtained from Kentucky Tennessee Clay Company under the tradename KT 6 and the fume silica from Interlake, Inc. under the tradename Globe Fume. The binder may be a high purity calcium aluminate cement or other known cement. High purity calcium aluminate cement may be obtained from Lone Star LaFarge under the tradename Secar 80 or from Alcoa under the tradename CA 25. The typical properties of the medium weight abrasion resistant castable having the preferred composition are as follows Therefore, the castable meets the requirements which have been set and are in demand by the industry. The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential attributes thereof and, accordingly, reference should be made to the appended claims, rather than to the foregoing specification, as indicating the scope of the invention.