# POLYCARBONATE RESIN COMPOSITION

## Claims
Cokondensat des Polyestertyps, hergestellt durch Zugabe von

## Description
The present invention relates to a polycarbonate resin composition which has improved moldability and solvent cracking resistance. The present invention also relates to a modifying agent for a polycarbonate resin used in the polycarbonate resin composition of the present invention. Bisphenol type aromatic polycarbonates hereinafter sometimes referred to as polycarbonates have been known as molding resins with excellent physical and thermal properties. These polycarbonates, however, have a high melt viscosity, and hence, molding temparature and molding pressure are higher than with other resins, which is a disadvantage in molding. Further, molded articles of polycarbonates are not only inferior in hardness, but have the drawback that they easily undergo stress cracking in the presence of certain solvents. In order to improve these defects of polycarbonates having inferior moldability and solvent cracking resistance without affecting their high impact resistance, transparency and heat resistance, it has been proposed to incorporate various polyesters into the polycarbonate resin. For example, Japanese Patent Publication No. 37633 1979 discloses to incorporate a polyalkylene terephthalate, which is obtained by copolymerization of an ethylene oxide adduct of bisphenol A as a diol component, into the polycarbonate. Japanese Patent Laid Open Publication No. 94538 1978 discloses to incorporate a polyalkylene terephthalate containing cyclohexane dimethanol units as a diol component into the polycarbonate. Japanese Patent Laid Open Publication No. 145751 1980 discloses to incorporate a polyestercarbonate into the composition to improve transparency. However, the method described in Japanese Patent Publication No. 37633 1979 is economically disadvantageous because it needs an expensive diol such as an ethylene oxide adduct of bisphenol A. The method described in Japanese Patent Laid Open Publication No. 94538 1978 only achieves insufficiently improved solvent cracking resistance because the polyalkylene terephthalate to be incorporated is an amorphous polyester. The method described in Japanese Patent Laid Open Publication No. 145751 1980 can improve the transparency of a composition of a polycarbonate and a polyalkylene terephthalate by addition of said polyestercarbonate copolymer. However, when the polyestercarbonate disclosed in the reference is added into a single system of polycarbonate, it is not only difficult to maintain the transparency of the polycarbonate, but also the solvent cracking resistance is insufficiently improved. In FR A 2 252 367 a process for producing thermoplastic polyesters is described wherein linear polyester precondensates having a relative viscosity of at least 1.30 measured at 30 C on a 1 strength solution in equal parts of phenol and tetrachloroethane are allowed to react with 0.01 to 45 by weight, based on the total amount, of a polycarbonate having a degree of polycondensation of at least 10. Accordingly, it is an object of the present invention to provide a useful polyester type cocondensate as an inexpensive modifying agent for improving moldability and solvent cracking resistance, of polycarbonates without significantly affecting the originally excellent characteristics of the polycarbonate e.g. high impact resistance, heat resistance, transparency . It is another object of the present invention to provide a process for producing the polyester type cocondensate which is useful as a modifiying agent for improving moldability and solvent cracking resistance. of the polycarbonate It is a further object of the present invention to provide an inexpensive polycarbonate resin composition which has improved moldability and solvent cracking resistance without significantly affecting the originally excellent characteristics of the polycarbonate. The desired improved polycarbonate resin composition of the present invention comprises The polyester type cocondensate is useful as a modifying agent for polycarbonate resins. Further, the present invention also provides a process for producing the polyester type cocondensate which comprises adding The viscosity average molecular weight M is, herein, obtained from intrinsic viscosity η measured in dichloromethane at 20 C according to the Schnell s equation The bisphenol type aromatic polycarbonate which is used as one component of the composition or as one component of the cocondensate in the present invention is a polymer having units of the following general formula II wherein Z² is a bond or C₁ ₈ alkylene, C₂ ₈ alkylidene, C₅ ₁₅ cycloalkylene, C₅ ₁₅ cycloalkylidene, SO₂, SO, O CO or R¹ and R² are, a chlorine or bromine atom, respectively or a C₁ ₈ saturated alkyl group and p and q are integers of 0 4, respectively. Suitable examples of units of the general formula II are Such bisphenol type aromatic polycarbonates are known and can be easily obtained from an aromatic dihydroxy compound or the derivative thereof as starting material by the conventional phosgene method ester exchange reaction method. The polyester precursor used in the present invention comprises a bifunctional carboxylic acid mainly composed of terephthalic acid or a derivative thereof having ester forming ability hereinafter, sometimes expressed as dicarboxylic acid component and the diol component, and is a terephthalate type poly ester containing units of the following general formula I wherein Z¹ is a bifunctional residue which is obtained by removing the hydroxyl groups from a diol, preferably an ethylene and tetramethylene group, and n is 1 to 30. Preferably Z¹ is a bifunctional residue obtained by removing the hydroxy groups from an aliphatic diol having 2 to 15 carbon atoms or from an alicyclic diol having 6 to 8 carbon atoms. When a polyester precursor comprising a dicarboxylic acid component other that terephthalic acid, for example, an aliphatic carboxylic acid is used, the resultant copolymer induces an insufficiently improved solvent cracking resistance of the polycarbonate. There may be incorporated other dicarboxylic acids together with the terephthalic acid provided that they do not harm the effect of the present invention. Suitable examples of other dicarboxylic acids are Suitable examples of the diol component are aliphatic diols having 2 to 15 carbon atoms such as ethylene glycol, 1,2 propane diol, 1,3 propane diol, 1,4 butane diol, 2,3 butane diol, 1,6 hexane diol, 1,8 octane diol, neopentyl glycol and 1,10 decane diol alicyclic diols having 6 to 8 carbon atoms such as 1,4 cyclohexanedimethanol, poly alkyleneoxide α,ω diols such as diethylene glycol, triethylene glycol, polyethylene glycol and poly tetramethyleneoxide α,ω diols and random and block copolymers of ethylene oxide and 1,2 propylene oxide. These diols may be used alone or in combination of two or more kinds thereof. Particularly, when 1,4 butanediol or ethylene glycol is used in an amount of not less than 80 molar based on the total amount of diol a remarkable increase of the solvent cracking resistance of the polycarbonate is achieved. The above diol component and dicarboxylic acid component can be converted into the polyester precursor by a conventional polycondensation process. This is generally achieved by heating the starting materials in the presence or absence of a catalyst for polycondensation and separating the by products water, lower alcohol or the like from the system. According to the present invention, it is important that the number average polymerization degree of the polyester precursor is in the range of 1 to 20. When the number average polymerization degree of the polyester precursor is within the above range, the resulting cocondensate shows a relatively long block length of the unit. The incorporation of a cocondensate having such a relatively long block length into the polycarbonate can improve the defects of the polycarbonate without harming the original properties thereof. When the number average polymerization degree of the polyester precursor is less than 1, that is, when the dicarboxylic acid component and the diol component are not substantially reacted, the cocondensation by adding the polycarbonate to the system results in a cocondensate having a relatively short block length. The incorporation of a cocondensate having such a relatively short block length of the unit i.e. high random property into polycarbonate does not accomplish the object of the present invention that the solvent cracking resistance of polycarbonate is improved without affecting the excellent original characteristics thereof. If on the other hand, the number average polymerization degree of the polyester precursor is over 30, the homogeneous dispersion of the polyester precursor in the polycarbonate becomes difficult, and a cocondensate having a relatively long block length can be hardly obtained. Thus, according to the present invention, the polyester precursor has a number average polymerization degree of 1 to 20. It is preferred that the polycarbonate used in the cocondensation of the present invention has a viscosity average molecular weight sometimes expressed as molecular weight of not less than 5,000, more preferably in the range of 8,000 to 100,000. When the molecular weight is within the above range, there may be readily obtained a cocondensate having a relatively long block length. The method wherein the cocondensate is obtained by directly adding phosgene and a bisphenol type compound to the polyester or a precursor thereof, or the method wherein the cocondensate is obtained by cocondensation of an oligocarbonate having a molecular weight of less than 5,000 and a polyester or a precursor thereof can give a relatively short block length of the polycarbonate units in the cocondensate. The incorporation of a cocondensate having such a relatively short block length into the polycarbonate does not accomplish the object of the present invention that the solvent cracking resistance of polycarbonate is improved without affecting the excellent original characteristics thereof. In the present invention, the block length can be expressed as the melting point depression of the resultant cocondensate. For example, when the ester component constituting the cocondensate has a crystalline structure, it is preferred that the difference of the melting points between the melting point of the polyester alone and the melting point of the cocondensate which refers to the polyester unit in the cocondensate satisfies the following equation According to the analysis with a differential scanning calorimeter, the cocondensate shows a peak corresponding to the heat absorption of the polyester units and a further peak corresponding to that of the polycarbonate units. The ratio of the polyester precursor to the polycarbonate is in a range of 5 to 100 parts by weight of polycarbonate per 100 parts by weight of the polyester precursor. When the cocondensation ratio of the polycarbonate is too low, it is difficult to maintain the excellent properties of polycarbonate. On the other hand, when the cocondensation ratio of the polycarbonate is too high, the defects of the polycarbonate are only insufficiently improved. The most preferred ratio of the components for the cocondensation is in the range of 5 to 30 parts by weight of polycarbonate per 100 parts of the polyester precursor. The cocondensation of the present invention is effected by mixing said specific polyester precursor with the polycarbonate in the desired amount and then subjecting the mixture to a conventional polycondensation reaction to form the polyester type cocondensate. Most conveniently after producing said polyester precursor, the polycarbonate is added to the system and the condensation is continued to give the desired cocondensate. When the polyester polycarbonate cocondensate thus obtained is incorporated into a bisphenol type aromatic polycarbonate having the same or different structure from that of the polycarbonate used in the above cocondensation, it can provide a remarkable transparency effect. Further, the mixture may be used for various molding articles which have improved heat resistance and impact resistance. The polyester type cocondensate obtained above is incorporated in an amount of 5 to 200 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of the above bisphenol type aromatic polycarbonate. When the polyester type cocondensate is less than 5 parts by weight, it shows an insufficient improvement of the physical properties of the polycarbonate resin composition. On the other hand, if the amount of incorporation is over 200 parts by weight, the resulting resin composition is inferior in the original, properties of the polycarbonate resin i.e. high impact resistance . The preferred ratio is 10 to 50 parts by weight of the polyester type cocondensate to 100 parts by weight of polycarbonate. Further, particularly as regards transparency, the effect, of the polycarbonate resin composition of the present invention is especially remarkable if the above cocondensate is incorporated into a bisphenol type aromatic polycarbonate having the same structure as that of the polycarbonate used in the cocondensation. The molecular weight of the bisphenol type aromatic polycarbonate is preferably in a range of 5,000 to 100,000. The method of mixing the polycarbonate with the polyester type cocondensate to obtain the polycarbonate resin composition of the present invention includes various methods which are generally used for the addition of a plasticizer or a filler into a thermoplastic resin. For example, there can be used extruder a Banbury mixer or kneader roll. The obtained polycarbonate resin composition has the following melt index, tensile impact strength, haze and solvent cracking resistance critical strain If desired, there may be incorporated various fillers into the polyester type cocondensate and the polycarbonate resin composition of the present invention. Suitable examples of fillers are carbon black, titanium oxide, alumina, silica, talc, glass fiber, asbestos, other pigments and dyes. The molding of the present polycarbonate resin composition can be carried out by a conventional molding method for a thermoplastic resin such as extrusion molding, injection molding, compression molding or calender molding. The following examples illustrate the present invention in detail. η Dimethyl terephthalate 2.5 kg , ethylene glycol, 1.8 kg and zinc acetate dihydrate 1 g were heated to 190 C with stirring to effect an ester exchange reaction. After most of the methanol was distilled off, triphenyl phosphate 1.2 g and antimony oxide 1.1 g were added. The mixture was heated to 240 C, and stirred under reduced pressure with an aspirator for 15 minutes to obtain a polyethylene terephthalate oligomer having a number average polymerization degree of 10 a polyester precursor . The polymerization degree was measured according to the end group analysis. After the system was brought to ambient pressure, a bisphenol A type polycarbonate produced by Idemitsu Petrochemical Co., Ltd. Idemitsu Polycarbonate A 3000, viscosity average molecular weight 29,000 in a given amount Preparation 1, 380 g Preparation 2, 620 g Preparation 11, without addition Preparation 18, 80 g Preparation 19, 3,000 g was added and the mixture was kneaded, under reduced pressure again with the use of an aspirator. After the pressure reached 50 torr, the temperature of the system was raised to 280 C over the period of 10 minutes. After 15 minutes, the pressure was brought to 0.2 torr with a vacuum pump and heating was continued with stirring. After 2 hours, the reaction was terminated and the reaction product was isolated and quenched. The products obtained in Preparations 1, 2, 18 and 19 were transparent and could not be fractionated by dissolution in methylene chloride, which is a good solvent for the polycarbonate but a non solvent for the polyethylene terephthalate, and by dissolution in a mixed solvent of phenol tetrahydrofuran 1 1 by weight , which provides a good solvent for the polyethylene terephthalate but is a non solvent for the polycarbonate. Thus, the products obtained in Preparations 1, 2, 18 and 19 were found to be cocondensates in which a polyester component and a polycarbonate component are chemically linked together. The analysis of this cocondensate with DSC Differential Scanning Calorimeter showed a melting point in the range of 252 256 C for each cocondensate, therefore they were confirmed as cocondensate with a blocked polyethylene terephthalate segment. The polyethylene terephthalate homopolymer obtained in Preparation 11 showed a melting point of 260 C. The polycondensation was carried out in the same manner as described in Preparation 1, except that a mixed diol of ethylene glycol 1.26 kg and 1,4 cyclohexanedimethanol 1.25 kg 0.7 0.3 by mole was used instead of ethylene glycol 1.8 kg . The obtained product could not be fractionated by the solvent according to the solvent examination as described in Preparation 1. Therefore, the product was confirmed to be cocondensed. The polycarbonate was incorporated at the same time as dimethyl terephthalate and ethylene glycol were added, and the procedure of Preparation 1 was repeated. The obtained product was confirmed to be cocondensed by the same solvent examination as described in Preparation 1, however, the melting point of the polyethylene terephthalate component according to the analysis with DSC was not clearly defined. A polyester having a number average polymerization degree of 100 was obtained according to Preparation 1. The polycondensation reaction was carried out in the same manner as described in Preparation 1 . The obtained product was opaque when melted, and most of the product could be fractionated by the solvent examination. Therefore the product is not chemically cocondensed. Also, the product was partly insoluble in the solvent for viscosity measurement, therefore the viscosity could not be defined. A polymer was obtained in the same manner as described in Preparation 1, except that the given amount of polycarbonate had a viscosity average molecular weight of 2,600. The melting point corresponding to the polyethylene terephthalate segment of the resulting polymer was 250 C for that prepared by adding 5 parts by weight of polycarbonate per 100 parts by weight of the polyester precursor Preparation 14 .On the other hand a clear melting point was not found for that prepared by adding of 10 parts by weight Prepartion 15 and 15 parts by weight Preparation 16 of polycarbonate, per 100 parts by weight of the polyester precursor. A polyester cocondensate was obtained in the same manner as described in Preparation 3, except that no bisphenol type polycarbonate was added. Dimethyl terephthalate 2.5 kg , 1,4 butane diol, 2.6 kg and tetrabutyl titanate 1 g were heated to 190 C with stirring to effect an ester exchange reaction. After most of the methanol was distilled off, the mixture was heated to 240 C, and stirred under reduced pressure with an aspirator for 15 minutes to obtain a polyethylene terephthalate oligomer having a number average polymerization degree of 10 a polyester precursor . A defined amount of polycarbonate was added and the polycondensation reaction was carried out in the same manner as described in Preparation 1. The obtained product could not be fractionated by the solvent according to the solvent examination as described in Preparation 1. Therefore, it was confirmed to be cocondensed. A bisphenol A type polycarbonate 100 parts by weight produced by Idemitsu Petrochemical Co., Ltd. Idemitsu Polycarbonate A 3000 Viscosity average Molecular Weight, 29, 000 and each of the products obtained in the above described Preparations 1 19 in an amount shown in the following table 1, were dried at 120 C for 12 hours, chip blended, then fed in to an extruder a 40 mm extruder produced by Osaka Seizai Kosaku KK, 8VSE 40 28 type , and kneaded under the following conditions and pelletized The obtained pellets were dried at 120 C for 12 hours, then subjected to injection molding by using a NIKKO ANKELBERG V 15 75 type injection molder to give test samples Composition Nos. 1 16 molding temperature 120 C . The melt index of the pellets at 280 C, g 10 min. was measured as an index for moldability and fluidity of the composition tensile impact strength as an index for impact resistance according to ASTMD 1822 and haze of the molded discs 3 mm thick as an index for transparency. As index of solvent cracking resistance, critical strain was measured according to the 1 4 oval method using toluene isooctane 40 60 by volume as a solvent of. Nakatsuji, Shikizai, 39, 455 1966 . The results are shown in Table 1. As is clear from Table 1, the polycarbonate resin composition prepared by incorporation of the cocondensate of the present invention was found to improve fluidity and solvent cracking resistance of the polycarbonate without remarkably decreasing its original impact resistance and transparency. On the other hand, the compositions Nos. 6 and 16 which employed, as a modifiying agent for the polycarbonate, a polyester which was not copolymerized with the polycarbonate have improved fluidity and solvent cracking resistance, but remarkably decreased transparency. The composition No. 7, using a cocondensate which was obtained by adding the polycarbonate during the polycondensation of dimethyl terephthalate and ethylene glycol retained its original transparency, but showed insufficient improvement in solvent cracking resistance. On the other hand, the composition No. 8, in which the product obtained by the reaction of polyethylene terephthalate having a number average polymerization degree of 100 with the polycarbonate was employed, has remarkably decreased transparency with haze above 10. Moreover, similar to the composition No. 7, the compositions Nos. 9, 10 and 11 in which the cocondensate obtained from a polycarbonate having a molecular weight of less than 5,000 was employed, retained transparency, but do not show an improvement in solvent cracking resistance.