# PROCESS FOR PRODUCING A TEMPERATURE AND MOISTURE SENSITIVE ELEMENT

## Claims
Verfahren zur Herstellung eines temperatur und feuchtigkeitsempfindlichen Elements, umfassend die Verfahrensstufen

## Description
The present invention relates to a process for producing a temperature and moisture sensitive element. More particularly, the present invention relates to a process for producing a temperature and moisture senstive element to be employed for measuring the temperature and moisture in an air conditioner, a cocking device or a dryer, whereby the temperature and moisture of an atmosphere are measured by utilizing changes in the electrical resistances. Heretofore, as temperature and moisture senstive elements, there have been known, for instance, elements described in Japanese Unexamined Utility Model Publication No. 119559 1981 and Japanese Unexamined Patent Publication No. 91101 1980. The former, as shown in Figure 12 by the cross sectional view, has a temperature sensitive element and a moisture sensitive element formed with moisture sensitive sections on one side of a substrate, and the temperature sensitive element is located adjacent to the other side of the substrate, whereby the temperature and moisture are measured by the respective elements. In the Figure, reference numeral 1 indicates the temperature sensitive element, numeral 2 indicates the moisture sensitive element, numeral 2a indicates the substrate, numeral 2b indicates a moisture sensitive section, numeral 3 indicates a wire netting which protects the temperature sensitive element 1 and the moisture sensitive element 2. The latter, as shown in Figure 13 by the perspective view, comprises a dielectric which shows dependence of impedance upon a temperature and depedence of impedance upon a moisture, whereby signals of the temperature and moisture are detected by the surface of electrodes of the dielectric. In the Figure, reference numeral 4 indicates the dielectric and numerals 5 indicate electrodes. As the former is a combination of two elements for a temperature sensitive element and a moisture sensitive element, there are problems that its production is complicated and that it is bulky. Further, the latter has a problem that if only impedance resistance is measured, it is obscure whether a change in impedance is caused by a change in temperature or moisture. A temperature and moisture senstive element for the differential detection of moisture and temperature by a single unitary sensor element is known from the JP A 59 143 742. In this known element two coating areas are differentiated by covering one thereof with a hermetic seal which prevent access of moisture. Therefore, this area is merely responsive to changes of temperature but not to changes of moisture. The remaining area is not provided with a hermetic seal and is therefore exposed to the moisture of the air. It is merely covered with a wire net for protection. Therefore, this area is both sensitive for moisture as well as to temperature. The intrinsic moisture and temperature sensitive charcteristics of the coating material are identical for both areas, wherein the difference merely lies in extrinsic appliances for allowing or preventing access of moisture. It is the object of the present invention to provide a process for producing a temperature and moisture sensitive element under excellent efficiency of operations, which can exactly measure temperature and a moisture individually, and yet which is small sized. This object is achieved by the features of claim 1. Advantageous developments of the invention are given by the dependent claims. The invention is based on the recognition that one single coating material can be rendered differentially sensitive to changes of humidity and temperature and this differential sensitivity is an intrinsic characteristic of the coating material itself. Therefore, outer appliances for preventing or allowing access of humidity are not required. In the present invention, therefore, a temperature is measured by the temperature sensitive section and a moisture is measured by the moisture sensitive section independently, whereby both the temperature and moisture are precisely measured. Further, in the present invention, it is possible that the identical compositions are merely subjected to different treatments to form the temperature sensitive section and the moisture sensitive section so that a producing process is simplified, whereby efficiency of operation becomes excellent. Throughout the Figures, the same reference numerals indicate the same or corresponding parts. In the following, the present invention will be described in detail. In Figures 1 and 2 showing an embodiment of the present invention, a temperature sensitive section 8 has characteristics that an electrical resistance varies depending upon the temperature of an atmosphere, and the moisture sensitive section 7 has characteristics that an electrical resistance varies depending upon the moisture of an atmosphere, these changes in electrical resistance are measured by the electrodes 5, whereby the temperature and moisture are measured individually. Now, the present invention will be described in detail with reference to Examples. However, it should be understood that the present invention is by no means restricted by these specific Examples. Figure 3 is a perspective view showing the sequence of the steps of the Examples 1, 3 and 4 of the present invention. In the Figure, reference numeral 10 indicates a first coating layer, and numeral 11 indicates a second coating layer. On the same surface of an alumina substrate 6, two pairs of comb shaped opposed electrodes 5 made of Ag paste were formed apart from each other Figure 3 a . A thinner was added to Composition 1 indicated below the mixture was stirred with a stirrer, and then the stirred mixture was applied onto one of the two pairs of the electrodes in a thickness of about 50 µm by brush coating to form the first coating layer 10 Figure 3 b . The first coating layer was subjected to a heat treatment in this case firing at 500 Figure 4 is a graph showing temperature sensitive characteristics of the temperature sensitive section 8 thus obtained. Further, the temperature sensitive section 8 shows no substantial depedence of impedance upon a moisture so that there is no practical problem. Figure 5 is a graph showing moisture sensitive characteristics of the moisture sensitive section 7 of the same element. Further, the moisture sensitive section 7 shows no substantial dependence of impedance upon a temperature so that there is no practical problem. Thus, the element shows both excellent temperature sensitive characteristics and moisture sensitive characteristics. On the both side of an alumina substrate 6, comb shaped opposed electrodes made of Pt Au paste were formed, respectively, and a Pt lead wire was bonded to each of the electrodes. A thinner was added to Composition 2 indicated below, the mixture was stirred with a stirrer, then the stirred mixture was filmily applied onto the two pairs of the opposed electrodes in a thickness of about 40 µm by dipping treatment to form a first and second coating layer. The second coating layer was shielded with a heat insulator to intercept a heat, the first coating layer was subjected to heat treatment in this case firing at 500 The temperature and moisture sensitive element shows similar temperature sensitive characteristics and moisture sensitive characteristics to those of the element in Example 1. A temperature and moisture sensitive element of the present invention was prepared in accordance with the process of Figure 3. Namely, on the same surface of an alumina substrate, two pairs of comb shaped opposed electrodes made of Pt Pd paste were formed apart from each other. A thinner was added to Composition 3 indicated below, the mixture was stirred with a stirrer, then the stirred mixture was applied onto one of the two pairs of the electrodes in a thickness of about 20 µm by brush coating to form the first coating layer. The first coating layer was subjected to heat treatment at 560 Figure 8 is a graph showing temperature sensitive characteristics of the temperature sensitive section thus obtained. As dependence of impedance upon a moisture of the temperature sensitive section is at most 6 as a change in electrical resistance relative to a change in relative humidity from 10 to 95 , there is no practical problem. Figure 9 is a graph showing moisture sensitive characteristics of the moisture sensitive section. As a depedence of impedance upon a temperature of the moisture sensitive section is at most 4 as a change in electrical resistance relative to a change of 10 A temperature and moisture sensitive element of the present invention was prepared in accordance with the process of Figure 3. Namely, on the same surface of an alumina substrate, two pairs of comb shaped opposed electrodes made of Pt Pd paste were formed apart from each other. A thinner was added to Composition 4 indicated below, the mixture was stirred with a stirrer, then the stirred mixture was applied onto one of the two pairs of the electrodes in a thickness of about 30 µm by brush coating to form the first coating layer. The first coating layer was subjected to heat treatment at 600 Figure 10 is a graph showing temperature sensitive characteristics of the temperature sensitive section. As dependence of impedance upon a moisture of the temperature sensitive section is at most 8 as a change in electrical resistance relative to a change in relative humidity from 10 to 95 , there is no practical problem. Figure 11 is a graph showing moisture sensitive characteristics of the moisture sensitive section. As dependence of impedance upon a temperature of the moisture sensitive section is at most 5 as a change in electrical resistance relative to a change of 10 The present invention is by no means restricted by the above mentioned specific Examples. Accordingly, the temperature sensitive section may be formed prior to a formation of the moisture sensitive section, for instance, the first and the second coating layers are formed on electrodes at a time by spray coating, heat treatments are conducted almost simultaneously by the laser irradiations with different quantities of irradiation energy, whereby it is possible to shorten the operation time. As a polymerized organo silicon compound of the present invention, there may be employed, for instance, greasy, varnish like or oily prepolymer of organo siloxane such as methylphenyl silicone or methyl silicone, or modified type silicone such as epoxy modified, acryl modified or urethane modified silicone. As an inorganic material of the present invention, a metal oxide such as Fe₃O₄, Li₂O, TiO₂, SiO₂ or NiO, a compound oxide such as BaTiO₃, a powder of metal such as Al, Cu, Ni or Zn, a powder of alloy such as FeSb a powder of carbon such as graphite and a powder of non metal such as selenium. The composition of the present invention may contain a powder of inorganic material such as a metal oxide as an additive for the purposes of the improvement of coat forming effect, the acceleration of drying and curing, the prevention of cracking and the improvement of bonding performance to the substrate. As an additive, there may be mentioned SiO₂, Al₂O₃, bentonite, mica or talc. As ways of applying the first coating layer and second coating layers, there may be employed brush coating, spray coating or dipping treatment. The temperature of heat treatment of the second coating layer for formation of the temperature sensitive section varies depending upon a state of the polymerized organo silicon compound molecular weight, a type of organic group or upon an atmosphere of heat treatment. However, the temperature is desirably at most a temperature at which an organic group contained in the polymer would not completely be resolved, i.e. at most about 450 A temperature of heat treatment of the first coating layer for formation of the moisture sensitive section is desirably from about 500 to 700