# METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR EFFECTING A TRANSFORMATION OF A VIDEO IMAGE

## Claims
Verfahren zur Durchführung einer Videobild Transformation auf einem Videobildschirm mit den Verfahrensschritten

## Description
The present invention relates generally to a method and system for effecting a transformation of a video image from an original image on a TV screen applicable to for ex. a system for producing a special visual effect on a television screen in a television broadcasting station e.g. GB A 2119594 . Such a kind of special visual effect system has been proposed in which image signals in a standard television method constructed so as to form a piece of two dimensional image having a rectangular shape are converted into digital signals. Thereafter the digital image signals are read in predetermined address locations generated within an input image memory having a memory capacity corresponding to one field. When the output image data are read out by accessing the input image memory to read out the read in data in an order changed from the read in order according to the necessity to display the output image data on the screen of a display unit, a piece of image having a special effect such that an image derived from input image data is geometrically changed can be displayed. In this case, a read out address signal for the input image memory is generated by means of a read out address transform circuit for transforming the input image address of the input image data according to the necessity. As the read out address transform circuit, a circuit is used in which with a three dimensional surface data previously stored on the basis of a concept such that on the basis of input image data generating a plane image, the input image data are converted into a three dimensional surface and a calculation to map the input image on the three dimensional surface using the three dimensional surface data is achieved by software calculating means. However, there are problems in the conventional read out address transform circuit. That is to say, a large scale of memory is not only required as a storage means for storing the three dimensional surface data but also the transform calculation for many picture elements constituting the displayed image need to be executed so that a large sized and complicated construction of the whole special effect system cannot be avoided. Especially, in a case when the whole screen on which the input video image is displayed is transformed into a video screen which can be viewed as if the screen were three dimensionally inflexed, the inflexed surface being varied with time, an oversized construction of the special visual effect system exceeding a practical capacity range connot be avoided. Therefore, it is desirable to provide a method and system for effecting a transformation of the video image which achieves a practically sufficient special visual effect described with a simple hardware construction in place of various conventional software methods. With these problems in mind, it is an object of the present invention to provide a system and method for effecting a transformation of a video image on a video screen which can remarkably reduce a scale of the special effect system as compared with the above described system and in which a plane image formed with the input image data is converted into an image signal having an effect such that an image on the screen can be viewed as if a page of a book were turned over. This is referred to as a page turn over effect. This effect can be achieved by a method for effecting a transformation of a video image on a video screen, which comprises the steps of a storing an input video image in a memory device b defining a two dimensional address plane in a memory area of the memory device c providing a first line on the address plane to divide the address plane into first and second regions d providing second and third lines on the first and second regions of the address plane in parallel to the first line e calculating address data of the address plane for providing transferred address data so that the address data of the first region are symmetrically transformed with respect to the first line, and the address data between the first and second lines and between the first and third lines are non linear compression transformed along an axis perpendicular to the first line f calculating transformed address data between the first and second lines and between the first and third lines when address data between the first and second lines and between the first and third lines are non linear compression transformed along an axis perpendicular to the first line and g reading out the input video image from the memory device data and generating an output video image according to the transformed address data, whereby the output image can be viewed such as to be turned over along the first line. This can be achieved by a system for effecting a transformation of a video image on a video screen, which comprises a first means for storing input image data, b second means for sequentially generating a positional output image address signal, c third means for presetting parameters representing a locus on which an output of the video image is turned over as if a sheet of paper were folded up, d fourth means for sequentially generating position designation signals indicative of a displacement of the input image on a two dimensional plane, e fifth means for calculating values including a positional reference point signal of the input image on the two dimensional plane on the basis of which the input image is displaced, rotation transform matrix data based on a given angle through which the two dimensional plane is rotated, and a radius data on a virtual cylindrical image on which part of the input image is wound, the positional reference point signal, the rotation transform matrix data, radius data being based on preset parameters drived from the third means and position designation signals derived from the fourth means, f sixth means for executing transform arithmetic operations for transformable parts of an output video image, the transformable parts being defined by a first part representing a rear part of the output video image which is wound on an upper surface of the cylindrical image as viewed through the video screen, a second part representing a front part of the output video image which is outside of a projection portion of the cylindrical image, a third part representing the front part of the output video image which is wound on a lower surface of the cylindrical image as viewed through the video screen, and a fourth part representing the rear part of the output image which is outside of the wound first part so as to overlap on the second part, on the basis of the reference point signal, rotation transform matrix data, and radius data of the cylindrical image calculated by the fifth means and reading out the input image data the contents of which are to be the output image and specified by the positional output image address signal generated by the second means, and g seventh means for displaying the input video image whose data are stored in the first means and read out from the first means by the sixth means according to the positional output image address signal on the video screen so that the whole video screen can be viewed as if a sheet of paper were being folded up. This can also be achieved by a method for effecting a transformation of a video image on a video screen, comprises the steps of A more complete understanding of the present invention may be obtained from the following description taken in conjunction with the attached drawings and in which like reference numerals designate corresponding elements and in which Reference will hereinafter be made to the drawings in order to facilitate an understanding of the present invention. In a method for effecting a transformation of a video image according to the present invention, a positional relationship of each picture element on a video screen between input picture image data and output image data is modeled on the basis of a technique shown in Fig. 7 and Fig. 8. Suppose that a virtual cylindrical image CYL is mounted on an input image IM represented by input image data so as to cross the input image IM obliquely. In addition, one end IM1 of the input image IM is folded and wound around the cylindrical image CYL. A screen in a state in which the end IM1 described above is wound around the cylindrical image CYL is viewed from an upward position in a vertical direction with respect to an unwound part of the screen IMO. A construction of the screen in this case can provide a visual effect such that an image represented by a piece of paper can be visualized as if it were gradually turned over. In more detail simultaneously when a center axis of the cylindrical image CYL is translated in parallel to a direction in which one page of a book is turned, a diameter of the cylindrical image CYL is increased according to an increase in distance of the parallel translation of the cylindrical image CYL. One sheet of image is thus turned over obliquely from one of the corners. As the turned sheet part of image becomes large as compared with the remaining sheet part, a diameter of a part of image IM2 currently wound on the cylindrical image CYL continued from the folded part of image IM1 becomes gradually varied and the position of the cylindrical image CYL is accordingly moved in a page turned over direction denoted by an arrow MK1. As shown in Fig. 7, suppose that with the part of the image IM wound on the cylindrical image CYL, the contents of the whole image on the screen when viewing the screen on which the part of image is wound on the cylindrical image from a position vertical to a plane of the part of image IM. In this case, the unfolded part of image IG0 remains unchanged without image alteration by a compression, shift, and rotation. On the other hand, a part of the image IG1 folded back over the part of image IG0 indicates inversely projected contents of, e.g., part of image IG0. In addition, a part of image IG21 located below the part of image IM2 refer to Fig. 7 wound on the cylindrical image CYL has projected contents of the image before the part of image IMO is wound on the cylindrical image CYL without folding back of image and which is subjected to a non linear compression. In addition, the upper part of image IG22 has projected contents with the folding back of the previous image IG0 before winding on the image CYL and with a non linear compression in image. When the effect of page turning over is modeled as shown in Fig. 8, the contents of the part of image IG2 wound on the cylindrical image CYL can be achieved if the contents of the image before the folding back of the original image is processed by way of a one dimensional non linear compression only for a direction represented by an arrow mark MK2 orthogonal to a fold line L1 on a plane including the part of image IG0 with respect to the fold line L1, i.e., a straight line parallel to a center axis of the cylindrical image CYL. For the transform processing when each picture element constituting the image on the screen is mapped on the part of the wound part of image IG2, the non linear compression transform may be executed only for one axial direction, i.e., the direction MK2 orthogonal to the fold line L1. The one axis direction non linear compression transform processing may be executed over the confines from the fold line L1 through first and second non linear compression parts of images IG21 and IG22 to a fold boundary line L2 representing a boundary between the original part of image IG0 and folded part of the image IG1. The folded boundary line L2 corresponds to a position of the wound part of image IM2 in Fig. 7 which has been separated from the cylindrical image CYL and comprising upper and lower fold boundary lines L21, L22. In order to effect a transformation of the folded part of image into an image projected on a plane including the original part of image IG0 in Fig. 8, the position of each picture element on the original screen may sequentially be transformed in accordance with a procedure of transformation processing in Figs. 1 A through 1 D . In a first transformation step, the fold line L1 is set on an original part of image OIG on a x y plane in an orthogonal coordinate system. In a second transformation step, the original part of image OIG is translated in parallel to an x₁ axis direction by a distance α so that the set fold line L1 is aligned with a y₁ axis and is rotated through ϑ in a counterclockwise direction, as shown in Figs. 1 A and 1 B . Thereafter, a part of image OIGN which belongs to a negative area in the x₁ axis direction x₁, y₁ x₁, y₁ is folded up along the y₁ axis hence, the fold line L1 to overlap the part of image OIGN over the remaining part of image OIGP present in a positive area of the x₁ axis direction x₁, y₁ x₁, y₁ . Consequently, although the unfolded part of image OIGP is maintained as the original image OIG without being subjected to the transformation processing, the part of image OIGN is transformed to take a reversed form of the original image OIG denoted by oblique lines . The whole image executed under such a folding transformation processing is represented on the x₁ y₁ plane. Next, in a third transformation step, a fold boundary line L2 is set which is parallel to the fold line L1 on the part of image OIGN and the part of image OIGP mutually overlapping and then a part of area ER refer to Fig. 1 c between the parts of images OIGN and OIGP is non linearly compressed. The non linear compression is carried out in such a way that the part of the image wound on the cylindrical image CYL obtained through a perspective view from an upward direction as described above with reference to Fig. 8 is produced on the x₂, y₂ plane. This can be achieved by obtaining the position of each picture element on the cylindrical image calculated as a result of mapping the parts of plane images OIGN and OIGP present in the area ER on a surface of the cylindrical image extending toward a direction along the y₂ axis. Consequently, the upper section of the part of image OIGN which belongs to the area ER is transformed into a part of image OIG3 representing the cylindrical surface through the non linear compression processing with respect to the one axis of the x₂ axis direction. A plane lower part of image OIGP which belongs to the area ER is transformed into the part of image OIG4 refer to Fig. 1 c representing the cylindrical surface through the non linear compression processing with respect to the x₂ axis. It should be noted that the parts OIG1, OIG2 other than the area ER which belong to the parts of images OIGN, OIGP shown in Fig. 1 C are not subjected to the non linear compression transformation. Next, in a fourth transformation step, the whole transformed image obtained as shown in Fig. 1 C is rotated by ϑ in the clockwise direction and translated in parallel shifted to the x₂ direction by α as appreciated from Fig. 1 D . The above described parallel translation and rotation transformations means such steps as to return the position of the whole image moved by the parallel translation and rotation transformation executed as shown in Fig. 1 A to the original image position. In this way, all transformation operations are ended and the entire image on the screen PIG after the transformation operation represented on the X Y plane provides the same visual effect as the perspective view from the upward direction orthogonal to a plane including the original screen OIG when a part of the left upward corner QL in the original screen OIG Fig. 1 A is folded up in a direction orthogonal to the fold line L1. If the transformed image PIG shown in Fig. 1 D is unfolded on a plane as shown in Fig. 2, the part of transformed image OIG4 appears on the screen from the folded line L1 to the lower fold boundary line L22 which has been subjected to the non linear compression and the part of transformed image OIG3 is also present between the fold line L1, an upper fold boundary line L21 drawn along a position which is axially symmetric to the lower fold boundary line L22 with respect to the fold line L1, and the upper part of image OIG1 which has not been subjected to the non linear compression transformation is present outside of the upper fold boundary line L21. On the other hand, if the partially transformed image PIG shown in Fig. 2 is compared with the original image OIG shown in Fig. 1 A , the part of transformed image OIG2 which has not been subjected to the non linear compression transformation is subjected to such a transformation that a corresponding part of the original image OIG on the x y plane is translated in parallel by the distance α along the x axis Fig. 1 A , is then rotated by the angle ϑ in the counterclockwise direction Fig. 1 B , and is, in turn, rotated in the clockwise direction and translated in parallel to the x axis direction by α Fig. 1 D . However, during such a transformation procedure, the position of each picture element in the part of image OIG2 is finally returned to the original position of the corresponding picture element pixcel in the original image OIG. Consequently, the part of transformed image OIG2 is directly derived from the corresponding part of the original image OIG without any alternation. Thus, a position X, Y of each picture element on the X, Y plane in an area of the transformed part of image OIG2 can be expressed in the following equation by transforming a position x, y in the corresponding part of image present on the x, y plane. Next, the part of transformed image OIG4 is obtained by parallel translating the corresponding part of transformed image OIG by α Fig. 1 A , rotating that part through the angle ϑ in the counterclockwise direction Fig. 1 B , transforming that part in the non linear compression Fig. 1 C . and rotating that part through the angle ϑ in the clockwise direction and translating that part in parallel by the distance α. In this case, if a position of each picture element x, y present on the part of original image OIG corresponding to the part of transformed image OIG4 is expressed relatively to a reference position x In the above equation 2 , a first term of the right side represents an amount of the parallel translation of the part of image with respect to the screen after processing of the non linear compression transformation and R ϑ denotes a rotation matrix in which the image on the screen is rotated through ϑ in the counterclockwise direction. The rotation matrix R ϑ may be expressed as In addition, R ϑ denotes the coordinate position after the processing of the non linear compression transformation is rotated through ϑ in the counterclockwise direction and may be expressed as follows Furthermore, the second matrix in the equation 2 may be expressed as follows. In the equation 5 , the right side denotes the execution of the non linear compression transformation. In the equation 5 , F denotes an operator for obtaining a value in the X ordinate after transformation as expressed below In the equation 6 , r denotes a radius of the cylindrical image CYL refer to Figs. 1 A through 1 D used for the non linear compression transformation and is expressed by the following equation Furthermore, the fourth matrix of the right side second term of the above equation 2 , i.e., indicates that the position of each picture element x, y before the transformation processing is translated in parallel by the distance corresponding to the coordinates x Next, the part of transformed image OIG3 is derived from the following procedure the corresponding part of the original part of image OIG is translated in parallel by α refer to Fig. 1 A , rotated through the angle ϑ in the counterclockwise direction and folded back refer to Fig. 1 B , transformed through the non linear compression refer to Fig. 1 C , and finally rotated through the angle ϑ in the clockwise direction together with the parallel translation by α refer to Fig. 1 D . In this case, the part of transformed image OIG3 is derived in the similar transformation procedure as the other part of transformed image OIG4 except the above described fold back transformation procedure. The part of transformed image OIG3 can be expressed in the following equation. It should be noted that a difference between the equations 2 and 9 lies in a term F which is included in the second matrix of the second term of the equation 9 . The minus sign of the term F represents the original image being turned over. Next, the part of transformed image OIG1 is derived from the following procedure after parallel translation by α, the original image thereof is subjected to the rotation transformation through the angle ϑ in the counterclockwise direction and is folded refer to Fig. 1 B , and thereafter undergoes the rotation transformation through ϑ in the clockwise direction and parallel translation by α. Consequently, each picture element in the part of transformed image OIG1 is transformed into a position with respect to the original image OIG which can be expressed in the following equation. A difference of the above equation 11 from the equation 9 lies in the use of a coefficient 1 in place of the operator F in the second matrix of the right side second term. This represents that in the case of equation 11 the image before subjection of transformation is turned over through the fold back transformation processing without the non linear compression transformation. In this way, the parts of transformed image OIG2, OIG4, OIG3, and OIG1 constituting the transformed picture PIG can be obtained by transforming the image on the original part OIG into such positions as to satisfy the transformation equations represented by equations 1 , 2 , 9 , and 11 . The equation 1 represents that the part of transformed image OIG2 is returned to the same position as the original part of image OIG as the result of a series of transformation steps. In this case, the following equation can be substituted for the equation 1 if the intermediate series of transformation processings are included. The transformation equations applied to all of the parts of image OIG2, OIG4, OIG3, and OIG1 can be represented in the following general formula. In the above equation 13 , T denotes a matrix in which the operator F or a numerical valve substituted for the operator F is included for each arithmetic operation. The non linear compression transformation equation represented by the equation 6 can be obtained by the utilization of the relationship shown in Fig. 3. In details, in the case when the double folded transformed image on the x₁, y₁ plane shown in Fig. 1 B is subjected to the non linear compression as shown in Fig. 1 C , the continuous parts OIG4, OIG3 of the image following the part of the transformed image OIG2 are folded back so as to be wound about the cylindrical image having a radius r. In this case, supposing that when the part of transformed image OIG4 present between the fold line L1 on the x₁ axis and the folded boundary line L22 having a width of D is wound about an angular range of π 2 90 at a quarter lower part of cylinder surface, the position of a point x₁ on the part of transformed image OIG4 is moved to a position on the cylinder surface by an angle rad with respect to the folded boundary line L22, the position of the point on the cylinder surface can be expressed as follows with respect to an ordinate on the x₂ axis. In the above equation 14 , the width D can be expressed as follows since the part of transformed image OIG4 having the width D is wound on the angular range of π 2 at a quarter lower part of an outer surface of the cylindrical image CYL. In addition, the following equation is established from the relationship between the angle for the transformed point of the ordinate x₁ and wound angle π 2 with respect to a center of the cylindrical image CYL. If the equations 15 and 16 are substituted for the above equation 14 , the following relationship is established. Although the transformation from the x₁, y₁ plane to the x₂, y₂ plane is described with reference to Fig. 3, the general formula can be expressed as the above mentioned equation 6 . In order to display the transformed image obtained in the fourth transformation step Fig. 1 D in accordance with the transformation procedure of Figs. 1 A through 1 D as the output image on the screen, the data on the original image OIG refer to Fig. 1 A is sequentially written into an input image memory together with a predetermined address data , i.e., input image address data . If an output image address is inversely transformed into the input image address in order to sequentially access the input image address corresponding to the output image address required for the display of the output image after transformation of the input image, the transformed output image refer to Fig. 1 D can be read out from the input image memory. To obtain the corresponding input image address from the output image address, in this way, image position data on which the transformation processing has been executed in the order beginning from Fig. 1 A and ending to Fig. 1 D is inversely transformed in the procedure starting from Fig. 1 D and ending to Fig. 1 A on the basis of the output image address. The above described inverse transformation can be derived by solving the general formula expressed in the equation 13 with respect to the term expressed below Then the following equation is established. Each value of picture element expressed in the above equation 19 may be obtained sequentially from the coordinates X, Y of the transformed image PIG as the coordinate x, y of the original image OIG. The above described inverse transformation is executed in accordance with a processing sequence shown in Fig. 4. In a step SP1 of Fig. 4, a position X, Y of transformed image PIG hence, output image address is inputted. In the next steps SP2 and SP3, the parallel translation shift transformation and rotation transformation are executed on the basis of the following equation 20 . The coordinate position x₂, y₂ on the x₂, y₂ plane shown in Fig. 1 C is thus obtained. In an image on the x₂, y₂ plane, the above described fold line L1 is represented by the following equation. On the other hand, the above described fold boundary line L2 hence, corresponding to a center axial line of the cylindrical image about which the part of transformed image is wound is expressed by the following equation. In addition, in the transformed image of the x₂, y₂ plane, any input image is not present in a negative area outside the fold line L1 and an inverse transform of the non linear compression is necessary for an area between the fold line L1 and fold boundary line L2. Next, in a step SP4 of Fig. 4 the inverse transform of the non linear compression transformed image on the x₂, y₂ plane is executed so as to form the transformed image on the x₁, y₂ plane as described above with reference to Fig. 1 B . Thereafter, in a step SP5, a fold back transform processing is executed so as to unfold the folded image. Since in the transformation processing in the steps SP4 and SP5, there is no part of an image to be transformed in the following range on the x₂, y₂ plane, no transformation is executed. On the other hand, since in the area expressed below on the x₂, y₂ plane the two parts of image OIG3 and OIG4 are mutually overlapped, the inverse transform needs to be executed for each part of image. For a point x₂, y₂ of the part of image OIG4 in which the image is not turned over, a point x₁₄, y₁₄ obtained on the x₁, y₁ plane through the transformation is expressed as follows. For a point x₂, y₂ within the part OIG3 in which the image is turned over, a point x₁₃, y₁₃ obtained on the x₁, y₁ plane through the transformation is expressed as follows. In the equations 25 and 26 , F ¹ denotes an operator for executing the inverse transform of the non linear compression represented by F. In addition, for a point x₂, y₂ within the part OIG2 in which the contents of image is not turned over, a point x₁₂, y₁₂ obtained on the x₁, y₁ plane through the transformation is expressed as follows. The above described equation 28 indicates that neither inverse non linear compression transform nor fold back transform is executed as appreciated from the use of coefficient 1 in place of the operator F ¹. On the other hand, for a point x₂, y₂ of the part OIG1 in which the contents of image is turned over, a point x₁₁, y₁₁ obtained on the x₁, y₁ plane through the transformation is expressed as follows. The above described equation 29 indicates that the contents is folded back as appreciated from the use of coefficient 1 in place of the operator F ¹. Whereas the fold back transform outputs for the parts of image OIG1 and OIG3 are obtained in the step SP5 and are subjected to the rotation and parallel translation transforms in the next steps SP6 and SP7, for the other parts of image OIG2 and OIG4, they are directly subjected to the rotation and parallel translation transformations without the fold back transform in the next steps SP8 and SP9, respectively. Such series of transforms are executed respectively for the points x₁₁, y₁₁ , x₁₂, y₁₂ , x₁₃, y₁₃ , x₁₄, y₁₄ on the x₁, y₁ plane related to the parts of transformed image OIG1, OIG2, OIG3, and OIG4. Consequently, the points x In this way, whenever the output image address allocated to each picture element included in the parts of transformed images OIG1, OIG2, OIG3, and OIG4 is specified by a sequential specification of an output address allocated to each picture element of the transformed image PIG described above with reference to Fig. 1 D , the input image address allocated to a picture element located at a position expressed by the corresponding one of the above described equations 30 through 33 can be fetched from the input image memory as the read out address. Consequently, the image data constituting each part of the transformed image can be read out of the input image memory. It should be noted that it becomes practically necessary to select with a higher priority the image data on a part of transformed image which is located at an upper side of the mutually opposing parts of the transformed image, in a case when a plane image having a page turned over effect as shown in Fig. 1 D is produced. Therefore, a control of the priority for each part of image is carried out as shown in step SP10 of Fig. 4. The order of priority for the transformed image exhibiting the page turn over effect in Fig. 1 D is set in such a way that the part of image OIG1 has a higher priority than the part of image OIG2 and the part of image OIG3 has a higher priority than the part of image OIG4. Thus, in the same way as a page of a book is turned over, a lower part of the front page hidden by the folded up part of the rear page is not displayed so that the input image address x, y which is capable of forming such an image as having more practical page turn over effect can be produced in the final step SP11. A system for transforming image signals which achieves the above described series of transformation processing is shown schematically in Fig. 5. As shown in Fig. 5, the input image data IND is sequentially read in the input image memory 2 via a low pass filter interpolation circuit 1. The read image data is, in turn, read out by means of a read out address signal RAD produced in a read out address generator 3 and transmitted as an output image data OUD via an interpolation low pass filter circuit 4. The read out address generator 3 receives an output image address signal OADD generated by an output image address generator 5. Furthermore, the read out address generator 3 receives a reference point signal h In addition, the read out address generator 3 executes respective transform calculations for the four transformable parts of image OIG1, OIG2, OIG3, and OIG4 as described above with reference to Figs. 1 A through 1 D on the basis of the output image address signals OADD, reference point signal h In addition, the read out address generator 3 has an internal circuit configuration shown in Fig. 6 and executes a sequential transform processing of each signal corresponding to the inverse transform steps shown in Fig. 4. Although in the image transform processing described above with reference to Figs. 1 A through 1 D the arithmetic operation is carried out on the basis of square lattice coordinates between x, y plane and X, Y plane, both output image address signal OADD produced from the output image address generator 5 and reference point signal h Therefore, a relationship between each point x, y and X, Y on the x, y coordinates and X, Y coordinates and each real address h, v and H, V corresponding to the former coordinate point is defined in the following four equations. The reference point x Such a conversion from the x, y coordinates and X, Y coordinates to corresponding real addresses h, v and H, V is executed simultaneously when the read out address generator 3 executes the rotation transform. The read out address generator 3, as shown in Fig. 6, the signal H, V indicative of the real address supplied from the output image address generator 5 as the output image address signal OADD is supplied to adders 16, 17 of a parallel translation shift circuit 15. The adders 16, 17 receive respective reference point signals h It should be noted that the reference point signal h The multiplier 19 multiplies the transformed data AR by the address signals H h The data of angle ϑ for rotation transform is previously inputted to the control parameter calculation circuit 8 using the pointing device 6. The control parameter calculation circuit 8 outputs the rotation transform data AR calculated from the equation 40 . The output data RV01 appearing on an output terminal of the multiplier 19 is thus expressed by the following equation. Since the rotation transform data AR includes a conversion coefficient for converting the address h, v and H, V to square lattice coordinates x, y and X, Y as shown in the above equation 40 , the contents of output data RV01 are converted into the x, y coordinates and X, Y coordinates described with reference to the equations 18 through 33 , on the basis of which the inverse transform arithmetic operation is executed at the subsequent stage of non linear compression inverse transform circuit 20. The non linear compression inverse transform circuit 20 calculates the non linear compression inverse transform using the data of radius r sent from the control parameter calculation circuit 8. Specifically, an inverse transform calculation circuit 21 constituting the non linear compression inverse transform circuit 20 calculates data x₂ of the outputs RV01 produced from the previous stage of rotation transform circuit 18 in the axial direction of x₂ and the calculation result is sent to a selection switching circuit 22. The selection switching circuit 22 receives directly the data x₂ and enables the output of data on the part of image not requiring this inverse transform without passage through the non linear compression inverse transform calculation circuit 21 when the data on the part of image not requiring such a transform is received. In addition, the selection switching circuit 22 receives as selective switching control signals CH x₂ axis direction data x₂ and a transform region specification signal SD corresponds to the region D in Fig. 2 indicating that data on the regions of the parts of transformed image OIG3 and OIG4 requiring the inverse transform of non linear compressions have reached from the circuit 8. In this way, the selection switching circuit 22 selects the output of the non linear compression inverse transform calculation circuit 21 and outputs it as the output data x₁ of the non linear compression inverse transform circuit 20 upon arrival of the data corresponding to the parts of transformed image OIG3 and OIG4 and outputs the data x₂ directly as the data x₁ constituting the output NCOMP of the non linear compression inverse transform circuit 20 upon arrival of the picture element data of the other parts of transformed image OIG1 and OIG2. On the other hand, a y axis component y₂ of the output RV01 from the multiplier 19 is directly outputted as the y axis data y₁ of the output NCOMP. The non linear compression inverse transform circuit 21 calculates the above equations 25 and 26 by means of the following equation. After the calculation is executed, a minus sign attached to the term of operator F ¹ as a minus exponent is operated arithmetically at the subsequent stage of rotation transform circuit 23 in order to simplify the construction. The rotation transform circuit 23 executes the arithmetic operation of the equations 30 through 33 and the conversion of data represented by the square lattice coordinates x₁, y₁ to the real address data h, v . In details, in the arithmetic operation of the term R ϑ in the above equations 30 through 33 , the terms cos ϑ and sin ϑ are provided for the axial direction of x, as appreciated from the equation 4 . For the matrix of the right side first term, the inverse transform operator F ¹ and minus sign in the coefficient 1 are used as shown in the equations 26 and 29 . Therefore, the inverse transform operator in the non linear compression inverse transform matrix and sign in the term of the coefficient are moved to the term of x in the rotation matrix. Thereafter, when the arithmetic operation of the rotation transform matrix is executed as shown in the following four equations 43 through 46 , the sign in the term x is exchanged so that the arithmetic operation for all parts of transformed image can be executed using the same construction shown in Fig. 6. Therefore, the x axis component x₁ among the outputs NCOMP of the non linear compression inverse transform circuit 20 is sent to multipliers 25, 26 in which the rotation transform data B11 and B21 expressed in the following equations are multiplied by the component x₁. The multiplied output of the multiplier 25 is directly sent to an adder 27 and is sent to an adder 29 via a sign inverter 28. The multiplied output of the multiplier 26 is directly sent to an adder 30 and sent to an adder 30 via a sign inverter 31. On the other hand, the y axis component y₁ among the non linear compression inverse transformed outputs NCOMP is sent to the multipliers 35, 36 in which the rotation transform data B12, B22 expressed in the following equations are multiplied by the y axis component y₁. Thereafter, the multiplied output of the multiplier 35 is sent to the adders 27, 29 and that of the multiplier 36 is sent to the adders 30, 32. The adders 27, 30 directly receive the results of multiplication from the multipliers 25, 26 respectively in which the x axis component x₁ among the non linear compression inverse transform outputs NCOMP is multiplied by the rotation transform data B11, B12. On the other hand, the adders 29, 32 receive the results of multiplication from the multipliers 25, 26 via the sign inverters 28, 31. Consequently, the result of calculations from the equations 44 and 46 are sent to the adders 27, 30 and the result of calculations from the equations 43 and 45 is sent to the adders 29, 32, respectively. In this way, the results of arithmetic operations RV02 using the above described equations 43 through 46 are sent to the rotation transform circuit 23, the reference point data h This arithmetic operation means that the reference point h Consequently, among the parts of original image OIG refer to Fig. 1 A , the addresses h On the other hand, output terminals of adders 43, 44 in the parallel translation shift circuit 40 appear addresses v These address signals h According to the internal configuration of the read out address generator 3 shown in Fig. 6, in a case when the generator 3 carries out an image transformation such that the input image can be transformed to the output image having the page turn over effect, the read out address generator 3 is so constructed as to generate sequentially the transformed output image address and to execute an arithmetic operation of the inverse transform of the sequentially generated output image address into the read out address signal RAD so that the part of image data required for the appearance of page turn over effect among the image data stored in the input image data can assuredly be read out. Parameters representing a locus for a page to be turned over is preset in the control parameter calculation circuit 8 refer to Fig. 5 using the pointing device 6. In addition, the data on the reference point h As appreciated from Figs. 5 and 6,a major part of all arithmetic operations is achievable by the hardware construction so that the image signal transform system which can remarkably simplify part of a software arithmetic operation program as compared with the software execution for all arithmetic operations. According to the present invention, the transformation of image signals with the page turn over effect to be arithmetically operated as a three dimensional surface can easily be achieved by the two dimensional plane data transform and by one dimensional compression transform of the part of output image constituting the surface part of the output image. Consequently, the effect of page turning over can easily be achieved with a simple construction. It will be clearly understood by those skilled in the art that the foregoing description is made in terms of preferred embodiment and various changes and modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the invention which is to be defined by the appended claims.