# Removal of acid gases from a sour gaseous stream.

## Abstract
A sour gaseous stream comprising H₂S is contacted in column 2 with an aqueous reactant solution comprising an effective amount of Fe III chelate of an organic acid to obtain a sweet gaseous stream and a mixture including solid sulphur and Fe II chelate of the acid. Degradation of the iron chelate in the reactant solution employed in the cyclic processes for H₂S removal from sour gaseous streams is inhibited by maintaining a relatively high Fe II chelate concentration by carrying out the regeneration step in colomn 8 as a plug flow contacting procedure.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Process for the removal of acid gases, such as H2 S from a sour gaseous stream employing an aqueous reactant solution containing degradable iron chelates comprising a contacting in a contacting zone the sour gaseous stream with an aqueous reactant solution at a temperature below the melting point of sulphur, the reactant solution comprising an effective amount of Fe III chelate of an organic acid under conditions to convert g S, producing a sweet gaseous stream, and solid sulphur and Fe II chelate of said acid in an aqueous mixture b removing sulphur from the aqueous mixture, producing an aqueous mixture having reduced sulphur content c inhibiting degradation of the degradable iron chelates in said aqueous mixture during regeneration and oxidizing the Fe II chelate of the organic acid in the aqueous mixture by passing the aqueous mixture with oxygen in plug flow or substantial plug flow through a regeneration zone to maintain a presence of said Fe II chelate throughcut the mixture during at least the greater portion of the passage of the flow through the regeneration zone, and producing Fe III chelate of said acid in a regenerated aqueous reactant solution and d passing regenerated aqueous reactant solution from step c to the contacting zone for use as the reactant solution therein. 2. Process as claimed in claim 1, wherein the stream from which the H2S is removed is selected from naturally occuring gases, synthesis gases, process gases, and fuel gases. 3. Process as claimed in claim 2, wherein the sour gaseous stream is natural gas or a stream derived from the gasification of coal or a liquid hydrOcarbon. 4. Process as claimed in claim 1 , wherein heat is supplied in step c to assist in regeneration. 5. Process as claimed in any one of the claims 1 4, wherein the aqueous reactant solution used further comprises a lean selective absorbent, and wherein, before or after sulphur is removed from the aqueous mixture Obtained in step a , CO2 is removed from the aqueous mixture. 6. Process as claimed in any one of the claims 1 5, wherein the aqueous reactant solution used in step a further comprises an amount of Fe Il chelate of the organic acid. 7. Process as claimed in claim 6, wherein the molar ratio ofFe II chelate of the organic acid to Fe III chelate of the organic acid is less than about 0.3. 8. Process as claimed in claim 7, wherein the molar ratio ofFe II chelate of the organic acid to Fe III chelate of the organic acid is in the range of fran 0.01 to 0.25. 9. Process as claimed in any one of the claims 1 8, wherein the organic acid used has the formulaEMI16.1 from two to four of the groups Y are selected from acetic and propionic acid groups, from zero to two of the groups Y are selected frsm 2 hydroxy ethyl, 2 hydroxyprcQyl, andEMI16.2 wherein X is selected from acetic acid and propionic acid groups and R is ethylene, propylene or iscyrcpylene or alternatively cyclohexane or benzene where the two hydrogen atans replaced by nitrogen are in the 1,2 position, or wherein the organic acid comprises mixtures thereof. 10. Process as claimed in any one of the claims 1 8, wherein the organic acid used is N 2 hydroxyethyl ethylenediamlne triacetic acid. 11. Process as claimed in any one of the claims 1 8, wherein the organic acid used to nitrilotriacetic acid.

## Description
OF OFACID GASES FRoM A SOUR GASEOUS STREAM The presence of significant quantities of H2S and cho2 in various sour industrial gaseous streams poses a persistent problem. Although various procedures have been developed to remove and recover these contaminants, most such processes are deficient, for a variety of reasons. In one cyclic method currently attracting attention, the sour gas is contacted, preferably with a reactant or solvent reactant system which comprises a regenerable reactant, to produce solid free sulphur which is recovered either prior or subsequent to regeneration. Suitable reactant materials include polyvalent metallic ions, such as iron, vanadium, copper, manganese, and nickel, and include polyvalent metal chelates. Preferred reactants are coordination complexes in which the polyvalent metals form chelates with specified organic acids. In yet another process CO2 present in the gaseous stream is also removed by the use of a suitable selective absorbent. Other processes involve removal of impurities from aqueous streams utilizing various polyvalent metal chelates. Because these cleanup processes generally represent significant costs to manufacturing operations, any improvements in such processes which increase their efficiency may have great economic importance. For example, where chelates of polyvalent metals are employed, degradation or decompc ition of the chelate aver a period of time represents an important cost in the process, as well as requiring measures for deccmposition product bleed, removal or treatment and addition of fresh solution, and attention should be paid to preventing build up of decomposition products and consequent loss of efficiency. Evidence exists that maintenance of a relatively high Fe II chelate concentration, and optionally thiosulphate concentration, during regeneration, limits degradation of the ligand. A process for maintaining a relatively high concentration of Fe II ligand during the regeneration might have considerable econanic value. The invention relates to such a process. According to the invention the process for the removal of acid gas such as F S fran a sour gaseous stream emplcring an aqueouS reactant solution containing degradable iron chelates comprises a contacting in a contacting zone the sour gaseous stream with an aqueous reactant solution at a temperature below the melting point of sulphur, the reactant solution comprising an effective amount of Fe III chelate of an organic acid under conditions to convert H2S, producing a sweet gaseous stream, and solid sulphur and Fe II chelate of said acid in an aqueous mixture b removing sulphur from the aqueous mixture, producing an aqueous mixture having reduced sulphur content c inhibiting degradation of the degradable iron chelates in said aqueous mixture during regeneration and oxidizing the Fe II chelate of the organic acid in the aqueous mixture by passing the aqueous mixture with oxygen in plug flow or substantial plug flow through a regeneration zone to maintain a presence of said Fe II chelate thrDughcut the mixture during at least the greater portion of the passage of the flow through the regeneration zone, and producing Fe III chelate of said acid in a regenerated aqueous reactant solution and d passing regenerated aqueous reactant solution from step c to the contacting zone for use as the reactant solution therein. The oxygen converts Fe II chelate or chelates to the Fe III chelate or chelates, and regenerated reactant solution is passed to the contacting zone for use as the reactant solution therein. As used herein, the terms plug flow or substantially plug flow refer to the fact that a given portion of the mixture flows through the reactor without overtaking or significantly overtaking any other portion of the mixture, and the residence time in the regenerator for a given portion of mixture is the same or substantially the same as any other portion. The oxygen may travel at the same rate as the mixture or at slightly higher or lower rates. The effect of utilization of this technique is to provide contact for the oxygen and the mixture for regeneration purposes, but allowing Fe II chelate to be present in significant concentration throughout the mixture during or over all or at least the greater portion of the regeneration procedure. If regeneration is not total the Fe II chelate is present at all times to inhibit degradation of the ligand. Sulphur may be removed from the system after the regeneration of the mixture, although this is not preferred, or as described in application Serial No. 267,182, entitled Froth Process, byG. Blytas and Z. Diaz, filed May 26, 1981. As used herein, the term oxygen includes oxygen containing gases, such as air or air enriched with oxygen. In another embodiment of the invention, a sour gaseous stream containing H2S and CO2 is contacted with a selective absorbentaqueous reactant mixture at a temperature below the melting point of sulphur, the reactant mixture and procere being similar to that described, supra. Broadly, this is accomplished by the use of an absorbent mixture containing a lean selective absorbent for and preferably for H2S, as well , and an effective amount of Fe III chelate of the specified organic acid or acids, as described. A purified or sweet gaseous stream is produced which meets general industrial and commercial H2S and CO2 specifications.The CO2 is absorbed, and the H2 S is immediately converted to sulphur by the Fe III chelate. In the process, the reactant is reduced, and the sulphur may be removed prior to regeneration of the mixture, or thereafter, as described, supra. The invention also provides, in this embodiment, for the regeneration of the reactant and the absorbent. Specifically, the loaded absorbent mixture containing Fe II chelate of said organic acid or acids is passed with oxygen in plug flow or substantial plug flow through a regeneration zone, and the mixture is thereby regenerated to produce a selective absorbent aqueous reactant mixture having an increased ratio of Fe III chelate of said organic acid or acids to Fe II chelate of said acid of acids. The regenerated mixture is then passed to the contacting zone. If significant quantities of CO2 have been absorbed, the reactantcontaining solution is preferably treated, such as by heating or pressure reduction, to remove the buLk of the CO2 before regeneration of the reactant, either prior or subsequent to sulphur removal .Alternately, or if small quantities of CO2 are absorbed, the CO2 may simply be stripped in the regeneration zone. As indicated, the regeneration of the reactant is accomplished by the utilization of oxygen, preferably as air. The oxygen will accomplish two functions, the oxidation of Fe II of the reactant to Fe III , and the stripping of any residual C02 if originally present from the absorbent mixture. The oxygen in whatever form supplied is supplied in a stoichiometric equivalent or excess with respect to the amount of Fe II chelate present in the mixture.Preferably, the oxygen is supplied in an amount frem about 20 per cent to about 300 per cent excess. In a suitable embodiment of the invention the aqueous reactant solution used in step a further comprises an amount of Fe II chelate of the organic acid. The e molar ratio of Fe II chelate of the organic acid to Fe III chelate can be less than about 0.3. In a further suitable embodiment the molar ratio is in the range of from 0.01 to 0.25. The reactant materials employed are coordination complexes in which iron forms chelates with an acid having the formulaEMI4.1 from two to four of the groups Y are selected from acetic and propionic acid groups from zero to two of the groups Y are selected from 2 hydr cyethyl, 2 hydroxypropyl, and EMI5.1 wherein X is selected from acetic and propionic acid groups and R is ethylene, propylene or isopropylene or alternatively cyclohexane or benzene where the two hydrogen atoms replaced by nitrogen are in the 1,2 position, and mixtures thereof. The iron chelates are readily formed in aqueous solution by reaction of an appropriate salt, oxide or hydroxide of iron and the chelating agent in the acid form, or an alkali metal or ammanium salt thereof. Exemplary chelating agents include amino acetic acids derived from ethylenediamine, diethylenetriamine, 1, 2 propylenediamine, and 1, 3 propylenediamine, such as EDTA ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid , HEDTA N 2 hydroxyethyl ethylenediamine triacetic acid , DETpA diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid , amino acetic acid derivatives of cyclic 1,2 diamines, such as 1,2 diamino cyclohexane N,N tetraacetic acid, and 1, 2 phenylen diamiie ,N tetraacetic acid, and the amides of polyamino acetic acids disclosed in Bersworth US patentNo. 3,580,950. The Fe III chelate of N 2 hydroxyethyl ethylenediamine triacetic acid is a suitable reactt. In a further suitable embodiment of the invention the organic acid used is nitrilotriacetic acid. The particular type of sour gaseous stream treated is not critical, as will be evident to those skilled in the art. Streams particularly suited to removal of H2S and CO2 by the practice of the invention are, as indicated, naturally occuring gases, synthesis gases, process gases, and fuel gases produced by gasification procedures, e.g., gases produced by the gasification of coal, petroleum, shale, tar sands, etc. Particularly preferred are coal gasification streams, natural gas streams, and refinery feedstocks composed of gaseous hydrocarbon streams, especially those streams of this type having a low ratio of H2S to CO2, and other gaseous hydrocarbon streams.The term hydrocarbon streams s , as employed herein, is intended to include streams containing significant quantities of hydrocarbon both paraffinic and aromatic , it being recognized that such streams contain significant impurities not technically defined as a hydrocarbon. Again, streams containing principally a single hydrocarbon, e.g., ethane, are eminently suited to the practice of the invention.Streams derived from the gasification and or partial oxidation of gaseous or liquid hydrocarbon may be treated by the invention. The H2 S content of the type of streams contemplated will vary extensively, but, in general, will range from about 0.1 per cent to about 10 per cent by volume. CO2 content will also vary, and may range from about 0.5 per cent to about 99.0 per cent or more by volume. In this context, the invention may be used to remove H2S from various 2 streams, e.g., supercritical CO2 streams. Obviously, the amounts of H25 and CO2 present are not generally a limiting factor in the practice of the invention. The temperatures employed in the contacting or absorption contact zone are not generally critical7 except that the reaction is carried out below the melting point of sulphur, and, if an absorbent is used, the temperatures employed must permit acceptable absorption of CO2. In many romnercial applications, such as the removal of H2S and 2 from natural gas to meet pipeline specifications, absorption at artient temperatures is desired, since the cost of refrigeration would exceed the benefits obtained due to increased absorption at the lower temperature.In general, temperatures from 10 0C to 80 0C are suitable, and temperatures from 20 0C to 45 0C are preferred. Contact times will range from about 1 second to about 120 seconds, with contact times of 2 seconds to 60 seconds being preferred. Similarly, in the regeneration or stripping zone or zones, temperatures may be varied widely. Preferably, the regeneration zone should be maintained at substantially the same temperature as the contacting zone. If heat is added to assist regeneration, cooling of the aqueous mixture is required before return of the mixture to the contacting zone. In general, temperatures of from about 10 0C to 80 OC, preferably 20 0C to 40 0C may be employed. Pressure conditions in the contacting zone may vary widely, depending on the pressure of the gas to be treated. For example, pressures in the contacting zone may vary from 0.1 MPa up to 15 or even 20 MPa. Pressures of from 0.1 MPa to about 10 MPa are preferred. In the regeneration zone, pressures and fluid flow will be regulated to achieve plug flow or substantial plug flow of the oxygen and the mixture. Thus, residence times for given volumes of mixture and oxygen will range from 3,600 s to 600 s, preferably from 2,400 s to 1,200 s. The pressure, fluid flow, and temperature relationships involved are well understood by those skilled in the art, and need not be detailed herein.Other conditions of operation for this type of reaction process, e.g., pH, etc, are further described in US Patent No. 3,068,065 to Hartley, et al, datedDecember 11, 1962, and US Patent No. 4,009,251, to Meuly, issuedFebruary 22, 1977, incorporated herein by reference. Preferably, pH in the process of the invention will range from about 6 to about 7.5, and the molar ratio of the acid to the iron is from about 1.2 to 1.4. The process is suitably conducted continuously. As indicated, the H2S, when contacted, is rapidly converted in the process of the invention by the Fe III chelate of the reactant solution to solid elemental sulphur. Since the iron chelates have limited solubility in many solvents, the iron chelate compound or compounds are preferably supplied in mixture with the liquid absorbent and water. The amount of Fe III chelate supplied or employed is an effective amount, i.e., an ancunt sufficient to convert all or substantially all of the H2 S in the gas stream, and will generally be of the order of at least about two mol per mol ofH2S. Ratios of from about 2 mol to about 15 mol of Fe III chelate of the specified acid or acids per mol of H2S may be used, with ratios from about 2 mol per mol to about 5 mol of Fe III chelate per mol of H2S being preferred. If Fe II chelate is present, the molar ratio of Fe II chelate to Fe III chelate can be less than about 0.3, and will suitable range from about 0.01 to about 0.25. The manner of preparing the mixture containing an absorbent is a matter of choice. For example, the chelate may be added to the absorbent, and, if necessary, then water added. The e amount of water added will normally be just that amount necessary to achieve solution of the iron chelate, and can be determined by routine experimentation. Since the iron chelate may have a significant solubility in the solvent, and since water is produced by the reaction of the H2S and the Fe III ions of the chelate, precise amounts of water to be added cannot be given. In the case of absorbents having a low solubility for the iron chelate, approximately 5 per cent to 10 per cent water by volume, based on the total volume of the absorbent mixture, will generally provide solvency.Preferably, however, the Fe III chelate is added as an aqueous solution to the liquid absorbent. Where the chelate is supplied as an aqueous solution, the amount of solution supplied may be about 20 per cent to about 80 per cent by volume of the total absorbent mixture supplied to the absorption zone. The chelate solution will generally be supplied as an aqueous solution having a concentration of from about 0.1 rnolfl to about 3 moll, and a concentration of about 1 mol l is preferred. The absorbents employed in this invention are those absorbents which have a high degree of selectivity in absorbing CO2 and preferably H2S as well from the gaseous streams. Any of the known absorbents conventionally used which do not affect the activity of the Fe III chelate, and which exhibit sufficient solubility for the reactant or reactants may be employed. As indicated, the absorbent preferably has good absorbency for H2S as well, in order to assist in the removal of any H2S present in the gaseous streams.The particular absorbent chosen is a matter of choice, given these qualifications, and selection can be made by routine experimentation. For example, diethylene glycol monoethyl ther, popylene carbonate, tetraethylene glycoldimethyl ether, N nethyl pyrrolidone, sulfolane, methyl isobutyl ketone, 2,4 pentanedione, 2, 5 hexanedione, diacetone alcohol, hexyl acetate, cyclohexanone, mesityl oxide, and 4 thyl 4 nethoxy pentone 2 may be used. Suitable temperature and pressure relationships for different CO2 selective absorbents are known, or can be calculated by those skilled in the art. The manner for recovering the sulphur is a matter of choice.For example, the sulphur may be recovered by settling, filtration, liquid flotation, or by suitable devices, such as a hydrocyclone. The invention will now be described by way of example in more detail with reference to the accompanying schematic drawing, wherein Figure 1 illustrates the first embodiment of the invention, and Figure 2 illustrates the practice of the invention where a selective solvent for C02 is employed. All values are calculated or merely exemplary. As shown, sour gas, e.g., natural gas containing about 0.5 per cent by volume HZS, in line 1 enters contactor or column 2 tray type into which also enters an aqueous mixture comprising an aqueous 0.8 rrol l solution of the Fe III chelate of N 2 hydroxyethyl ethylenediamine triacetic acid, the mixture also containing 0.2 mol l of the Fe II chelate of N 2 hydroxethyl ethylenediamine triacetic acid. The pressure of the feed gas is about 84 MPa gauge , and the temperature of the aqueous mixture is about 45 OC. A contact time of about 120 s is employed in order to react all the H2S. Purified or sweet gas leaves column 2 through line 3. The sweet gas is of a purity sufficient to meet standard requirements.In the mixture, the H2S is converted to elemental sulphur by the Fe III chelate, Fe III chelate in the process being converted to the Fe II chelate. The aqueous mixture produced, including the elemental sulphur, is removed continuously and sent through line 4 to a depressurization and degassing unit 5, wherein gas freed is removed through line 12, and then to a sulphur removal zone 6. Sulphur removal zone 6 may comprise a filtration unit, or may be an extraction system as described in US PatentNo. 4,414,194 to Blytas. The sulphur is removed through line 13. Whichever is employed, the aqueous mixture is removed via line 7 for regeneration of the Fe II chelate. In regeneration zone or column 8, the mixture is contacted with excess air in line 9 to convert the Fe II chelate to the Fe III chelate. Regeneration zone 8 comprises a packed bed regenerator with cocurrent downflow of oxygen as air and aqueous mixture. The aqueous mixture is passed down the bed at a rate of 5 x 10 3m s, and the rate of oxygen flow as air is about 2.5 x 10 s. The temperature in the column is about 45 OC, and overall pressure is about 0.2 MPa. Spent air is removed via line 10, and regenerated mixture, having a molar ratio of Fe III chelate of N 2 hydroxyethyl ethylenediamine triacetic acid to Fe II chelate of N 2 hydroxyethyl ethylenediamine triacetic acid of 4, is returned via line 11 to column 2. If required additional aqueous mixture can by supplied through line 14. The drawing in Figure 1 illustrates the aspect of the invention wherein the extraction is carried out prior to regeneration. REmoval of the sulphur after regeneration may be accomplished by positioning of the removal unit after the regeneration zone. Thus, regenerated liquid, still containing sulphur, may be passed via line 11 to units analogous or equivalent to unit 6, sulphur recovered, and regenerated sulphur free solution returned to contactor 2. Instead of using Fe III chelate of N 2 hydroxyethyl ethylenediamine triacetic acid, natural gas containing 0.5 per cent by volume H2S can be contacted in column 2 with an aqueous mixture comprising 0.8 mol l of Fe III chelate of nitrilotriacetic acid also containing 0.2 mol l Fe II chelate of nitrilotriacetic acid. The pressure of the feed gas is about 84 MPa gauge and the temperature of the aqueous mixture is about 45 OC. The contact time is 120 s, so that all H2S is converted to solid sulphur. A sweet gaseous stream is removed through line 3, and an aqueous mixture including elemental sulphur and Fe II chelate of nitrilotriacetic acid is passed through line 4 to a depressurization and degassing unit 5 and then to a sulphur removal zone. In the regeneration zone 8 the aqueous mixture is contacted wlth excess air in line 9 to convert Fe II chelate to Fe III chelate. Regeneration zone 8 comprises a packed bed regenerator with occurrent downflow of oxygen as air and aqueous mixture. The 3 rate of aqueous mixture is 5 x 10 in s and the rate of oxygen flow is about 2.5 x 10 5m3 s, the temperature in the column is about 45 0C and the overall pressure is about 0.2 MPa. Spent air is removed via line 10, and regenerated mixture, having a molar ratio of Fe III chelate of nitrilotriacetic acid to Fe II chelate of nitrilotriacetic acid of about 4, is returned via line 11 to column 2. In Figure 2, sour gas e.g., natural gas containing about 0.5 per cent by volume H2S, and 32 per cent by volume Cho2, in line 21 enters absorption column 22 tray type into which also enters an absorbent mixture composed of 90 per cent by volume diethylene glycol monoethyl ether and 10 per cent by volume of an aqueous 0.8 mol l solution of the Fe III chelate of N 2 hdrcxethl ethylenediamine triacetic acid, also containing 0.2 mol l of the Fe II chelate of N 2 hydroxyethyl ethlene diamine triacetic acid.The pressure of the feed gas is about 84 MPa gauge , and the temperature of the absorbent mixture is about 45 OC. A contact time of about 45 s is employed in order to absorb virtually all CO2 and to react all the H2 S. Purified or sweet gas leaves absorption column 22 through line 23. The sweet gas is of a purity sufficient to meet standard requirements. In the absorbent mixture, the H2S is converted to elemental sulphur by Fe III chelate, Fe III chelate in the process being converted to the Fe II chelate. The absorbent mixture, containing elemental sulphur, absorbed CO2, and about 0.6 mol l Fe II chelate, is removed continuously and sent through line 24 to regeneration.Prior to entry in zone or column 25, the sulphur in the absorbent mixture may be removed in a sulphur separation zone shown in dotted lines . However, sulphur recovery may also be accomplished at a later stage, as shown hereinafter. As shown, the 2 absorbed is removed in unit 26 by reduction of pressure. The freed CO2 leaves unit 26 via line 33 and the lean mixture is forwarded via line 27 to column 25. Heat may be added, if necessary. Any absorbent carried over with vented m2 may be recovered by conventional equipment, such as a carbon absorption bed not shown , and recycled. In regeneration zone 25, the now lean absorbent mixture is treated in a similar fashion to that described with reference toFigure 1. Fe II chelate of N 2 hydrcxyethyl eEhylenediamine triacetic acid is converted by oxygen supplied through line 28 to Fe III chelate, while maintaining sufficient Fe II chelate of N 2 hydroxyethyl ethylenediamine triacetic acid to inhibit degradation of the iron chelates. The tertperature of the column 25 is about 45 OC, and pressure in the column is maintained at about 0.2 MPa. Spent air is removed from column 25 through line 29, while regenerated absorbent mixture, which still contains elemental sulphur, is sent through line 30 to sulphur removal zone 31.In unit 31, which may be a settler, the sulphur is removed from the absorbent mixture and recovered via line 34. The now regenerated absorbent mixture is returned via line 32 to absorption zone 22. In an alternative embodiment of the invention natural gas containing about 0.5 per cent by volume H2S and 32 per cent by volume CO2 is contacted in column 22 with an absorbent mixture including 90 per cent by volume diethylene glycol moncethyl ether and 10 per cent by volume of an aqueous 0.8 mol l solution ofFe III chelate of nitrilotriacetic acid also containing 0.2 mol l of Fe II chelate of nitrilotriacetic acid. The pressure of the feed gas is about 84 MPa gauge , the temperature of the absorbent mixture is about 45 OC, and a contact time of 45 s is employed in order to absorb virtually all 2 and to react all H2S.Sweet gas leaves the column 22 through line 23 and an aqueous mixture including elemental sulphur, absorbed C02 and about 0.6 mol lFe II chelate, is removed continuously and sent through line 24 to regeneration. Prior to entry in zone or column 25, the sulphur in the absorbent mixture may be removed in a sulphur separation zone shown in dotted lines . However, sulphur recovery may also be acoomplished at a later stage, as shown hereinafter. As shown, the CO, absorbed is removed in unit 26 by reduction of pressure, and the lean admixture forwarded via line 27 to column 25. Heat may be added, if necessary. Any absorbent carried over with vented 002 may be recovered by conventional equipment, such as a carbon absorption bed not shown , and recycled. In regeneration zone 25, the now lean absorbent mixture is treated in a similar fashion to that described with reference toFigure 1. Fe II chelate of nitrilotriacetic acid is converted by oxygen supplied through line 28 to the Fe III chelate, while maintaining sufficient Fe II chelate of nitrilotriacetic acid to inhibit degradation of the iron chelates. The temperature of the column 25 is about 45 OC, and pressure in the column is maintained at about 0.2 MPa. Spent air is removed from column 25 through line 29, while regenerated absorbent mixture, which still contains elemental sulphur, is sent through line 30 to sulphur removal zone 31. In unit 31, which may be a settler, the sulphur is removed from the absorbent mixture a,d recovered.The now regenerated absorbent mixture is returned via line 32 to absorption zone 22. While the invention has been illustrated with particular apparatus, those skilled in the art will appreciate that, except where specified, other equivalent or analogous units may be ertployed. The term zones , as employed in the specification and claims, includes, where suitable, the use of segmented equipment operated in series, or the division of one unit into multiple units because of size constraints, etc. For example, an absorption column may comprise two separate columns in which the solution from the lower portion of the first column would be introduced into the upper portion of the second column, the gaseous material from the upper portion of the first column being fed into the lower portion of the second column. Parallel operation of units, is of course, well within the scope of the invention. Again, as will be understood by those skilled in the art, the solutions or mixtures employed may contain other materials or additives for given purposes. For example, US Patent No. 3,933,993 discloses the use of buffering agents, such as phosphate and carbonate buffers. Similarly, US Patent No. 4,009,251 describes various additives, such as sodium oxylate, sodium formate, sodium thiosulphate, and sodium acetate, which are beneficial.