# Lotion for blemished scin comprising thymol .

## Abstract
This invention relates to a cosmetic for the treatment of blemished, scarred or inflamed skin with acne comedones . In particular there is described a lotion for blemished skin comprising thymol in amount of 0.03 0.75 by weight and Spiritus Vini in amount of 40 95 , the balance consisting of additives commonly used in the cosmetic industry.

## Claims
C L A I M S . I. A cosmetic product comprising Thymol in amount of O.03 0.75 by weight and Spiritus vini in amount of 4O 95 , the balance consisting of additives commonly used in the cosmetic industry. 2. Acosmetic product as claimed in claim I. wherein said additives may consist of aqua distillata with or without the addition of glycerine. 3. A cosmetic product substantially as hereinbefore described and illustrated in examples.

## Description
This invention relates to a cosmetic for the treatment of blemished, scarred or inflamed skin with acne comedones and to the articles made thereby. The particular effectivity of thes cosmetic product consists in its independent action upon Skin, irrespective of the blemishes origin hormonal condition, mood, food quality, condition of the digestive system and independent of drugs, such as antibiotics, vitamines, hormonal drugs, etc. The first cosmetic producgs that come into contact with our skin are of the cleansing and protecting kind. The skin of most children during the early years is heelthy, soft, free from spots and blemishes and requires little care other that regular cleansing. At the onset of puberty, however,the skin becomes susceptible to a range of problem, most of wich can be attributed to over activity of the oilproducing sebaceous glands. It has been proved that ore than 50 of those effected by excessive spots pimples, biackheads, acne and related conditions are adolescents between I2 and 18. The sebaceous glands together with the muscular nervous and vascular systems are cooectively known as the pilosebaceous apparatus and are largely under the control of endogenous hormones wich are present in unusually high concentration in the blood during adolescence and puberty. The corresponding increase in activity of the sebaceous glands themselves gives rise to the production of excessive amounts of sebum.This causes an oiliness of the skin and an increase in the rate of keratinization of the skin s horny layer the stratum corneum . The horny cells lining the sebaceous follicles also proliferate they become tightly packed and can form an occlusive plug or comedone.This physical barrier, coupled with the increased production of sebum, leads to a rapid accumulation of back pressure and the stagnant sebum forms an ideal medium for theProliferation of bacteria Staphylococcus albus,Staphylococcus aureus and Corynebacterium acnes . WhenThe plugged follicle ruptures and allows the discharge of its contents, local swelling and inflamation are caused. So far, no topically active substance has yet been found capable. Acne is usually treated by vitamin A, antibiotics Tetracycline , various hormonal drugs, subcutaneous hormonal injections. Thymol has been used for many years as a component of various drugs. Thymol is extracted from the volatile oil of Thymus Vulgaris and is an antiseptic used in vivo and in vitro insuitable dosage, as well as for local anaesthesia. I have now surprisingly succeeded to prepare a highly effective cosmetic product based on Thymol andSpiritus Vini. It is the purpose of the present invention to provide for a cosmetic product consisting mainly ofThymol and Spiritus Vini and utilizing to its full extent the active agents contained in the substance, particularly Thymol and Spiritus Vini. Thmol has proved to be a most effective constituent for local external treatment of problem skin inflamed, scarred, or with comedones . On the basis of experimental practice in problem skin treatment I have reached the conclusion that theThymol component operares as a peeling agent for the rarid and effective removal of keratinized squamous cells of the horny layer whose accurniation fostere the formation of comedones. Treatment by substance containing Thyrol removes the layer of grease from the skin surface and the blemishes disappear in most cases already within one week. The secretion of sebum by the sebaceous glands decreases gradually untill it reaches a nearly normal degree.EMI3.1 A rgh degree of sebum secretion by the sebaceous glands A Normal II A deree Time Section of time starting with starting point of the experiment , every section corresponding to a week. During the period of treatment, which in some cases measured up to two years, no cases at all were observed of a reduction of the activity of the glands from a heightened to a low subnormal degree. For a conclusion The effect upon problem skin of the invention containing Thymol and Spiritus Vini is as follous I. Problem skin blemished with scars, pirples, comedones, blocked with grease is freed from all these problems as a result of the treatment, the length of the period of treatment needed varying individually and in proportion to the degree of gravity of the situation. The product entails no addiction after the treatment is terminated the patients continue using other cosmetic products. These results are valid for patients aged 3 22 . 2. The skin is freed from blemishes with no traces left such as scars or creases except for cases where the skin is damaged by other treatment or product.3. Patients with skin blemished with scare or blotches previous to treatment were relived from these.Creases disappear completely in all case, whereas the removal of scare or improvement of scarred skin depends on the individual case and is in inverse proportion to the scars long standing previous to treatment with the Thymol product.4. Tteatment with this product at an early stage in ages 12.I4 prevents acne completely.5. The product containing the Thymol component has as its sinedlar advantage the fact of its being the only necessary agent during the period of treatmen no supplementary dietary or medical treatment need be involved. The abovementioned results are true for a. a group of patients whose skin problems were never treated before b. a group of patients whose case history reveals that conventional medical or cosmetic treatment was of no avail. According to the invention, about 0.03 0.75 by weight , calculated on the total weight of the product, of Thymol are added to 40 95 by volume of Spiritus Vini, while the balance is made up by substances like water and glycerine, which have no effect on either product but constitute the accepted bases for cosmetic liquids or creams. The cosmetic compositions according to the invention are prepared by methods known per se in cosmetic technology.I Without limiting the scope of the invention, several examples are given hereunder to illustrate the cosmetic product according to the invention EXAMPLE LOTION FOR BLEMISHED SKIN Thymol 0,03 parts by weight Spiritus Vini 95.00 by volume Aqua Distillata 2.97 Glycerine 2.00 I00.00 EXAMPLE II LOTION FOR ELEMISHED SKIN Thymol 0.75 parts by weight Spiritus Vini 40. CO by volume Aqua Distillata 50.25 Glycerine 9.00 1 I00.00 Experiments wich have been carried out with the compositions according to the invention have shown that the products are well stabilezed and effective after several years storage under normal temperature conditions. Information in this paragraph is from P. Alexander, S.F. Bloomifield et al., eds Harry s Cosmeticology. George Godwin I982, 7th edition , Cbapter Nine.