# An improved body support arrangement.

## Abstract
A body support arrangement comprising a pair of flexible elongate tubes 12 forming air spring located in spaced parallel relationship by members 14 which space and impart lateral stability to the tubes 12 . A body support surface is formed by a series slats 20 extending transversely of and resting on the tubes 12 . The slats 20 are fixedly attached, for example by adhesive, to a flexible sheet 22 .

## Claims
1. A support arrangement of the type defined comprising a pair of flexible elongate tubes 12 forming air springs located in spaced parallel relationship by members 14 which effect the required spacing and impart lateral stability to said tubes 12 and a body support surface formed by a series of members 20 extending parallel to each other and transversely of said tubes 12 , characterised in that said body support members 20 are fixedly attached to flexible material 22 and rest on, with connection to, said tubes 12 .

## Description
This invention relates to a support arrangement for mattresses or cushions in beds, chairs, sofas, settees, stretchers and other body support appliances. Such support arrangements will be referred to hereinafter as of the kind defined . The invention is particularly applicable to support arrangements of the kind defined in which a mattress or cushion rests on slats extending between supporting air springs as disclosed in my granted European Patent No. 038155 and pending European Application No. 83308034.4. The object of the present invention if to enable more economical manufacture of the support arrangement to be achieved. The present invention consists in a support arrangement of the type defined comprising a pair of flexible elongate tubes forming air springs located in spaced parallel relationship by members which effect the required spacing and impart lateral stability to said tubes and a body support surface formed by a series of members extending parallel to each other and transversely of to, said tubes, said body support members are fixedly attached to flexible material and resting on, without connection to, said tubes. In the accompanying drawings Referring now to Figure 1, of the drawings, a bed support arrangement 10 comprises a pair of elongate flexible tubes 12 forming air springs which are spaced apart in parallel with one another, a required predetermined distance by spacer members 14 positioned longitudinally along the tubes 12. As will be hereinafter described, in addition to spacing the tubes 12, the spacer members 14 also maintain lateral stability of the tubes whilst allowing vertical displacement. Each tube 12 is formed of heat welded sheet or extruded plastics material and the end of each tube is closed by heat welds 16 with an air pressure control valve 18 in the upper portion thereof. A series of independant, transversely extending mattress or body support members or slats 20 are fixed in closely spaced parallel relationship to the underside of a flexible foam or other sheet 22 by, for example, an adhesive or Velcro RTM material. Thus, although the sheet 22 is necessarily flexible, the slats 20 fixedly attached thereto, are held in parallel relationship and cannot turn or twist out of parallel. The end portions of the slats 20 lie on the spaced tubes 12, preferably with a vinyl wear strip 24 interposed therebetween. Conveniently the vinyl strips 24 may be attached by adhesive to the slats 20 after the latter have been fixed to the sheet 22. It will be appreciated that the showing of the slats 20 in the forward portion of Figure 1 have been omitted for the sake of clarity. The ends and sides of the assembly are formed respectively by elongated blocks of material 26 having a high impact load resistance i.e. they have a higher resistance to compressibility than the plastics foam material 22. Preferably the inner wall of the blocks 26 is bevelled as shown in Figure 1 to provide additional support for the tubes 12. The assembly is encapsulated in a cover 28 provided with an opening which extends along one side and both end blocks 26. It will be readily appreciated that the block 26 and cover 28 maintain the sheet 22 and attached slats 20 correctly positioned on the spaced tubes 12. The opening in the cover is closed by a sliding clasp fastener. As shown in Figure 2, each spacer member 14 comprises a single membrane 30 of sheet plastics material. The member 30 is of a length slightly greater than the overall spacing between the tubular bladders 12 and is provided with spaced apertures 32 whose axes correspond, with the respective axes of the tubes 12. The diameter of the apertures 32 is slightly less than the diameter of the tubes 12 to provide a gripping action when the spacer member is mounted thereon. The upper and lower edges of the membrane 30 are formed, respectively, with a chamber 34 each accommodating a rod 36 which extends from one end of the membrane 30 to the other. It will be readily appreciated that the spacer members 14 may take other forms. For example, it may be formed by an open ended flattened tubular member of sheet plastics material with the rods 36 replaced by slats similar to the slats forming the support surface. With this arrangement, when positioned on the tubes 12, the spacer member cross section is of rectangular configuration. The use of the members 14 as described above enables the tubes 12 to be maintained at the required spacing even though the members 14 are deformed vertically due to a load being applied on the slats 20 and, additionally, the rods 36 to ensure lateral stability of the assembly. Any desired number of members 14 may be used but, in general, up to five or six single membrane units are sufficient to ensure lateral stability of the tubes 12 depending on the use and manufacturing design. In an alternative form of the invention as shown in Figure 3, the slats 20, instead of being fixedly connected to the foam material 22, may have their respective end portions releasably secured in pairs of aligned slits 40 formed in flexible strips of material 42, the latter being in contact with the vinyl strip 24 or fixed to the tube 12 by adhesive. In a further construction the extremities of the slats are received in pockets formed in the facing side walls of a pair of spaced flexible strips. These latter methods might be more appropriate for Eastern style living where lightweight independant mattresses are used such as the traditional Japanese Futons.