# USE OF NISIN TO PREVENT SPOILAGE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES

## Claims
Verwendung von Nisin oder einer Nisin produzierenden Kultur bei der Herstellung oder Lagerung von Bier, um Organismen, die das Bier verderben, zu inhibieren, wobei das Nisin oder die Nisin Kultur vor dem Pasteurisieren zugegeben werden, oder in einer Lösung zum Waschen angestellter Hefe verwendet werden, um die Hefe zur Wiederverwendung im Brauverfahren brauchbar zu machen, oder in einer Lösung als Spülmittel für die Produktionsgeräte und anlage verwendet werden.

## Description
Nisin, an antimicrobial substance produced by certain strains of The use of Nisin in process cheese products has been the subject of earlier patents see British Patent 713,251 and U.S. Patent 2,744,827 dated 1954 and 1956, respectively. These patents relate to the manufacture or preservation of cheese of kinds liable to become blown or distended due to the growth of spoilage organisms which are anaerobic sporeformers, typically bacteria known as Use of Nisin as an antibotulinal agent by inhibiting the outgrowth of germinated Beer is a rather hostile environment for bacterial growth and, consequently, spoilage of beers is limited to only a few species of bacteria. Hough et al, Lactic acid bacteria Lactobacilli and Pediococci are attributed by the literature to be the major causes of spoilage in unpasteurized beers and give rise to the greatest proportion of infections during fermentation. Czechoslovak patent 172045 describes the stabilizing of wine by adding nisin to a must after pressing. However, wine is not pasteurised and therefore problems associated with pasteurisation are not encountered in the making of wine. FIGURE 1 illustrates the inhibition zones produced by 0, 10, and 100 units of Nisin when assayed, using a well test method, against a Lactobacillus sp. BSO 375 LC6 , a sensitive beer spoilage strain of bacteria, seeded in a lawn of MRS agar. A number of antibiotics are used as food preservatives see Chichester et al, The use of Nisin to combat beer spoilage can be considered in a number of possible ways. It is found that Nisin has a negligible effect on beer characteristics, e.g., aroma, flavor, appearance and physical stability, thus may have application to increase the shelf life of unpasteurized, cask or bottle conditioned beers. Since it is heat stable at beer pH, there is the option of adding it to beers before pasteurization, thereby providing the opportunity to reduce the time and temperature of treatment. Nisin appears not to affect the growth of brewing yeasts, which means that it could be added to fermentations without altering yeast performance. It could be used as an additive to worts, reducing the chances of spoilage arising due to lactic acid bacteria. If added at either of these stages, Nisin survives the fermentation and is carried through into the final beer. Alternatively, Nisin could be used as a palliative measure being used when required to treat only those fermentations or beers that are found to contain lactic acid bacteria. A Nisin solution may be used as a cleansing rinse for production equipment and plant or to wash pitching yeast to render the yeast suitable for re use in the brewing process. At present, contaminated pitching yeast is either replaced by freshly propagated yeast or is acid washed to remove the bacteria, however in some cases acid washing markedly reduces yeast viability and alters the ability of the yeast to ferment and flocculate during the fermentation which follows treatment. The brewing of beer is used as a specific example of the application of Nisin, however its use is not limited to breweries. Lactic acid bacteria obtained as known contaminants from malt whisky distillery fermentations are also found to be sensitive to Nisin. Therefore its use can be considered an aid to eliminating or exerting a measure of control over these bacteria. Working cultures were grown either in broth culture 10 ml or, alternatively, on medium solidified with 2.0 w v agar, and stored at 0 4 C. For gram positive strains of bacteria Table 1 illustrates the sensitivity to Nisin of brewing distillery contaminants and beer spoilage bacteria. Of these species the first 5 are gram positive and the remaining are gram negative. A total of 154 strains of bacteria, mostly beer spoilage organisms, considered to be representative and belonging to 13 genera were assayed for their sensitivity to Nisin 122 of these were gram positive and 32 were gram negative strains. The results, show the various responses obtained. Of the gram positive strains tested, predominantly Of the gram negative strains only the three belonging to the genus Twelve strains of brewing yeast, 8 ale and 4 lager, were assayed for Nisin sensitivity. None of these strains were inhibited by Nisin. This observation gives rise to the conclusion that Nisin could be used in the presence of brewer s yeasts to prevent or reduce spoilage, without adversely affecting yeast growth or fermentation performance. The effectiveness of Nisin at levels compatible with its practical use in wort and beer have been verified in MRS broth inoculated at different levels with sensitive beer spoilage strain of Lactobacillus. 100 units ml ¹ of Nisin completely inhibited growth of ca. 10⁵ cells ml ¹ at 20 C under anaerobic conditions. All the bacterial cells were killed in less than 10h FIGURE 2A . Similarly, when the inoculum was 10³ cells Ml ¹, growth was inhibited by 10 units ml ¹ of Nisin FIGURE 2c . Even 1 unit ml ¹ of Nisin had a significant effect in reducing the rate of growth when the inoculum was 10⁴ cells ml ¹ FIGURE 2b . Moreover, 100 units ml ¹ completely inhibited growth in MRS broth of 10⁴ cells ml ¹ of a strain of lactobacillus classified as Nisin resistant using the well test assay FIGURE 2D . It is known that the stability and activity of Nisin ubcreases with increasing acidity Hurst, A., 1981, Adv. Appl. Microbiol. Nisin added to the fermentation stage is present in the final beer with no measurable loss of activity. Therefore Nisin is neither adsorbed nor degraded by brewing yeasts, and survives both filtration and pasteurization. None of the Nisin preparations appear to confer any obvious detrimental characteristics on beer flavor. Papain, a non specific proteolytic enzyme, is added to many beers to stabilize them against haze formation. It will cleave peptide bonds linking a variety of amino acids, as long as those amino acids are in the L configuration. At least six amino acids are required to fill the enzymes active site . Consequently, due to the five ring structure of Nisin, papain can only attack the six amino acids at the C terminal of the molecule. Alpha chymotrypsin inactivates Nisin by cleaving a tripeptide from the C terminal of the bacteriocin. Therefore, it was possible that papain would inactive Nisin in beers. However, it was found that papain reduced the levels of Nisin activity only when the enzyme was present in concentrations approximately 100 fold those used in practice see FIGURE 4. Nisin is more stable to high temperatures than papain. Consequently, Nisin activity was not reduced by papain when they were added together and then pasteurized. On the contrary, at high papain concentrations, an increase in Nisin activity was seen. A similar approach could be used to control or prevent the conversion of malate to lactate malolactic fermentation during production of wine or cider.