# Covalently modified neutral bacterial polysaccharides, stable covalent conjugates of such polysaccharides and immunogenic proteins, and methods of preparing such polysaccharides and conjugates.

## Abstract
Covalently modified neutral bacterial polysaccharides covalent conjugates of such polysaccharides linked by a bigeneric spacer, with immunogenic bacterial membrane or other proteins, which conjugates are useful components of bacterial vaccines and methods of preparing such polysac charides and conjugates.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. Stable, covalently coupled polysaccharide protein conjugates comprising neutral bacterial polysaccharides and immunogenic proteins coupled through bigeneric spacers, containing thioether bonds, wherein said bigeneric spacers may be represented by the formula A E S B, wherein E isEMI49.1 where R is H or CH3 A isEMI49.2 where m is 0 to 4, n is 0 to 3, W is O or NH, and Y is CH2, O, S, NR , or CHCO2H, where R is H orC1 or C2 alkyl, such that if Y is CH2, then both m and n are not equal to zero, and if Y is O orS, then m is greater than 1 and n is greater than 1 and B isEMI49.3 where p is 1 3, q is 0 2, Z is NH2, EMI49.4 CO2H or H, and D isEMI49.5 where R is as defined above. 2. Stable, covalently coupled polysaccharide protein conjugates according to Claim 1, wherein the bigeneric spacers may be represented by the formula,EMI50.1 3. Polysaccharide protein conjugates according to Claim 1, wherein the neutral bacterial capsular polysaccharide is selected from the group consisting of Streptococcus pneumoniae types 7F, 14 and 37 polysaccharides. 4. Polysaccharide protein conjugates according to Claim 1, wherein the immunogenic protein is a meningococcal B serotype outer membrane protein or edestin protein. 5. Polysaccharide protein conjugates according to Claim 1, wherein the neutral bacterial capsular polysaccharide is Streptococcus pneumoniae type 14 polysaccharide, the immunogenic protein is a meningococcal B serotype outer membrane protein and the bigeneric spacer may be represented by the formula,EMI50.2 6. A process for solubilizing nonpolyanionic polysaccharides comprising heating said polysaccharides in distilled water, removing the residual water and dissolving the polysaccharide in a non aqueous polar, aprotic solvent. 7. A process according to Claim 6, wherein 5 15 aqueous hydrazine is added to the distilled water. 8. A process according to Claim 6, wherein the polysaccharides are heated for from 30 seconds to 10 minutes at from 700 1000C, the water is removed by lyophilization and drying with P205 in a vacuum and the non aqueous, polar, aprotic solvent is dimethylformamide, dimethylsulfoxide, dimethylacetamide, formamide or N,N dimethylimidazolidinone. 9. A process for covalently modifying a neutral polysaccharide comprising a fragmenting the polysaccharide and solubilizing the fragmented poly saccharide in a non aqueous, polar, aprotic solvent b activating the polysaccharide with a bifunctional reagent then c reacting this activated polysaccharide with a bis nucleophile. 10. A process according to Claim 9, also comprising reacting the activated polysaccharide which has been reacted with a bis nucleophile with a reagent generating pendant electrophilic sites. 11. A process according to Claim 9, wherein the polysaccharide is fragmented by heating said polysaccharide in distilled water then removing the water by lyophilization and drying with P205 in a vacuum the non aqueous, polar, aprotic solvent is dimethylformamide, dimethylsulfoxide, dimethylacetamide, formamide or N,N dimethylimidazolidinone the bifunctional reagent is selected from the group 0 consisting of carbonic acid derivatives, R2 C R3, wherein R2 and R3 are separately azolyl halides or phenyl esters and the bis nucleophile is a diamine of the formula, H2N CH2 mY CH2 nNH2, wherein m is 0 to 4, n is 0 to 3, and Y is CH2, O, S, NR ,CHCO2H, where R is H or a C1 or C2 alkyl, such that if Y is CH2, then both m and n cannot equal zero, and if Y is O or S, then m is greater than 1 and n is greater than 1. 12. A process according to Claim 11, wherein the non aqueous, polar, aprotic solvent is dimethylformamide, the bifunctional reagent is carbonyldiimidazole, and the bis nucloephile is 1, 4 butanediamine. 13. A process according to Claim 10, wherein the reagent generating electrophilic sites isEMI52.1 wherein X is nitrophenoxy, dinitrophenoxy, pentachlorophenoxy, pentafluorophenoxy, halide,O N hydroxysuccinimidyl or azido, R is H or CH3 andX is C1, Br or I or an activated maleimido acid,EMI52.2 wherein p is 1 to 3 and X is as defined above. 14. A process according to Claim 13, wherein the reagent generating electrophilic sites is nitrophenyl bromoacetate. 15. A process for preparing polysaccharideprotein conjugates comprising neutral bacterial capsular polysaccharides and immunogenic proteins coupled through bigeneric spacers containing thioether bonds, comprising a fragmenting the polysaccharide and solubilizing the depolymerized polysaccharide in a non aqueous, polar, aprotic solvent b activating the polysaccharide with a bifunctional reagent c reacting this activated polysaccharide with a bis nucleophile d reacting this activated polysaccharide which has been reacted with a bis nucleophile, with a reagent generating electrophilic sites, thus forming a polysaccharide with pendant electrophilic sites e independently reacting the immunogenic protein with a reagent generating thiol groups, to form a protein with pendant thiol groups then f reacting the polysaccharide with pendant electrophilic sites with the protein with pendant thiol groups to form a polysaccharide protein conjugate which is coupled through a covalent thioether bond then g centrifuging the resulting mixture to remove non covalently bonded polysaccharides and proteins. 16. A composition comprising an immunologically effective amount for either active or passive protection of mammalian species from the bacteremia caused by the cognate organism, of stable, covalently coupled polysaccharide protein conjugates according to Claim 1, antisera derived from said conjugates, or gamma globulin or other antibodycontaining fractions of said antisera, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 17. A composition according to Claim 16, further comprising an. adjuvant. 18. A composition according to Claim 16, wherein the polysaccharide protein conjugates comprise a pneumococcal type 14 polysaccharide coupled through a bigeneric spacer of the formula,EMI54.1 a meningococcal B serotype outer membrane protein, an immunologicallyeffective amount is an amount of each of the conjugates in the composition such that each conjugate contains from 2 50 pg of the polysaccharide in the conjugate form, and the mammalian species is humans. 19. A method of treating mammalian species against the bacteremia of the cognate organisms, which comprises administering to said species an immunologically effective amount of a composition comprising one or more types of polysaccharide protein conjugates comprising neutral bacterial capsular polysaccharides coupled through bigeneric spacers, containing thioether bonds, to immunogenic proteins, and a member of the group consisting of a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, an adjuvant, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and adjuvant. 20. A method of treating mammalian species according to Claim 19, wherein said polysaccharideprotein conjugates comprise a pneumococcal type 14 polysaccharide coupled through a bigeneric spacer of the formula,EMI55.1 a meningococcal B serotype outer membrane protein, the species to be treated is human neonates, and the effective amount of the composition in a single dose is an amount corresponding to 25 ug of the polysaccharide in the conjugate form for conjugates of pneumococcal polysaccharides. 21. A method of treating mammalian species according to Claim 19, wherein one or two additional booster compositions of an amount of a polysaccharideprotein conjugate comprising a polysaccharide protein conjugate comprising neutral bacterial capsular polysaccharides coupled through bigeneric spacers to immunogenic proteins corresponding to 25 ug of polysaccharide in the conjugate form may be administered to human neonates.

## Description
TITLE OF THE INVENTION COVALENTLY MODIFIED NEUTRAL BACTERIAL POLYSACCHARIDES, STABLE COVALENT CONJUGATES OF SUCHPOLYSACCHARIDES AND IMMUNOGENIC PROTEINS, AND METHODSOF PREPARING SUCH POLYSACCHARIDES AND CONJUGATES The present invention is directed to covalently modified neutral bacterial polysaccharides, specifically to pneumococcal 14 and similar polysaccharides, and to covalent conjugates of such polysaccharides linked by a bigeneric spacer, which permits proof of covalency and facilitates purification and concentration of biologicallydesirable entities, with immunogenic bacterial membrane or other proteins, which conjugates are useful components of bacterial vaccines. The present invention also relates to methods of preparing such polysaccharides and conjugates. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Purified capsular polysaccharides of bacteria have been used to prepare vaccines against the cognate bacteria, but the resulting immune responses have often been less satisfactory than desirable, especially in very young children or individuals with immature or deficient immunological systems. The Streptococcus pneumoniae type 14 capsular polysaccharide, for example, fails to provoke an immune response in infants, thus making this polysaccharide ineffective by itself in providing protection against the serious pediatric medical problems caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae type 14 bacteria, see, for example, Douglas et al.,J. Infect. Diseases, 148, 131 137 1983 and Laurence et al., Am. J. Diseases of Children, 137, 846 850 1983 .Enhancement of the immunogenicity of these polysaccharides may often be accomplished by combining them with proteins, Schneerson et al.,Infection and Immunity, 45, No. 3, 582 591 1984 discussing conjugation of Streptococcus pneumoniae type 6A . Care must be exercised in the selection of the protein which is to be combined with these polysaccharides, however. Certain proteins e.g., pertussinogen are non specific stimulators of the immune system in infants. These proteins can, to a degree, enhance the immune response to polysaccharide antigens, but unfortunately, such non specific activation leads to unwanted biological effects i.e., reactogenicity . The much preferred specific enhanced immune responses to these polysaccharide antigens can be achieved in infants by conjugating these polysaccharides to appropriate proteins, as first reported by W. F. Goebel and 0. T. Avery in 1929 J. Exptl. Medicine 50, 521 531 1929 . The means of combining the polysaccharide and protein must also be carefully considered. If, as is believed, the immunological enhancement is realized as a result of the molecular proximity of the polysaccharide determinants to the protein carrier determinants, these moieties should not easily separate in the biological system.Non covalent complexes, arising from the polyanionic character of many polysaccharides and the polycationic character of carrier proteins, may stimulate immune responses, but these complexes are chemically labile and the resultant immune responses appear to show T cell independency. By contrast, covalent conjugates of polysaccharides and protein would possess much greater chemical stability and could demonstrate T cell dependent immune responses. Covalent polysaccharide protein conjugates have been claimed in the literature, but the exact nature of the covalent linkage has not been proven or quantified since the only assay for covalency has been activity in vivo. In addition, the processes disclosed in the literature have poor reproducibility. Haemophilus influenzae type b andStreptococcus pneumoniae type 6A polysaccharides were reacted with cyanogen bromide, then with adipic acid dihydrazide, then coupled with tetanus toxoid or horseshoe crab hemocyanin proteins in Schneerson et al. J. Exptl. Med., 152, 361 1980 and Infection andImmunity, 40, 245 1983 .Pneumococcal type l9F polysaccharide was coupled to bovine serum albumin directly by forming imines Schiff bases from the reducing ends of the polysaccharides and the pendant amine groups i.e., lysines of the protein, then reducing these imines with sodium cyanoborohydride Lin et al., Immunology, 46, 333 1982 . Additionally, polysaccharides linked to diazotized aromatic amines were coupled to the protein s tyrosines in K. K. Nixdorff et al.,Immunology 29, 87 1975 and polysaccharides linked to aromatic amines were converted to isothiocyanates, which were then linked to the pendant amino groups of the protein s lysine in S. B. Svenson and A. A.Lindberg, J. Immunolog. Methods 25, 323 1979 . In each case, however, the resulting conjugate was characterized only by its gel permeation chromatographic behavior. In still another example S. Nutani et al., Infection and Immunity 36, 971 1982 , the polysaccharide, pullulan, was activated with cyanuric chloride, then reacted with tetanus toxoid. In this case, the conjugates were characterized by electrophoresis and only shown to be different from the starting materials. In none of these cases was covalency demonstrated other than by the implications of an aggregated molecular weight, thereby confusing covalency with the natural interaction of macromolecular species, with and without charges, in molecular complexes, as these complexes will also give an aggregate molecular weight. In copending application, U.S.S.N. 608,738, filed May 10, 1984, and incorporated herein by reference corresponding to FP A 0 161 188 covalentlyrodified polyanionic polysaccharides and proteins have now been shown, together with covalent conjugates of such polysaccharides linked by a bigeneric spacer with immunogenic bacterial membrane or other proteins and methods of preparing these and of confirming the covalency of the linkage between polysaccharides and proteins. Using the methodology of this reference, it is now possible to produce chemically stable polysaccharide protein conjugates which demonstrateT cell dependency and which would be useful as vaccine components for eliciting protective serum antibodies to, particularly, the cognate bacteria of the polysaccharides used.This methodology is, however, only useful for covalently modifying polyanionic polysaccharides and has not been useful with intractable pdlysaccharides which are insoluble or only semi soluble in organic solvents or salt solutions. It was, therefore, an object of this invention to develop a method for solubilizing neutral polysaccharides and covalently modifying these neutral polysaccharides in preparation for preparing chemically stable polysaccharide protein conjugates. It was also an object of this invention to link neutral polysaccharide determinants to protein carrier determinants, in chemically stable conjugates, such that the molecular proximity of these moieties could be maintained in biological systems in order that these conjugates would be useful as components in a mono or polyvalent vaccine for eliciting protective serum antibodies to certain bacteria, particularly the cognate bacteria of the polysaccharides used.It was a further object of this invention to develop methods of treatment employing these conjugates in immunologicallyeffective vaccines for use against, e.g., meningitis and otitis media.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The present invention is directed to covalently modified neutral bacterial polysaccharides and to chemically stable conjugates of such neutral polysaccharides with covalently modified immunogenic membrane proteins, viral protein subunits, synthetic polypeptides, bacterial toxoids or other suitable immunogenic proteins, which conjugates are useful components of immunogenic bacterial vaccines.The polysaccharide protein conjugates of this invention are coupled through bigeneric spacers containing a covalent thioether group, wherein the bigeneric spacers are atom chains linking macromolecules such as neutral polysaccharides and proteins , part of which spacers originate with one modified macromolecule e.g., the covalently modified neutral polysaccharide and the other part of which originate with the other modified macromolecule e.g., the functionalized protein . In the process according to the instant invention, the neutral polysaccharide is covalently functionalized in one or more steps to produce a polysaccharide with pendant electrophilic centers or pendant thiol groups. Preferably, the neutral polysaccharide is first fragmented by heating in water with or without aqueous hydrazine, the water is removed, and the fragmented polysaccharide is derivatized with a bifunctional activation agent before being reacted with a bis nucleophile. The nucleophile functionalized neutral polysaccharide is then either reacted with a reagent to generate pendant electrophilic sites or reacted with a reagent to generate pendant thiol groups.By proper selection of the bis nucleophile, i.e., one which would react with the activated neutral polysaccharide and result in a covalently modified polysaccharide with pendant electrophilic sites or thiol groups, or selection of the proper nucleophile, further functionalization of the nucleophile functionalized neutral polysaccharide may be avoided. Independent of the covalent modification of the neutral polysaccharide, the appropriate bacterial carrier protein is reacted with reagents generating pendant thiol groups or with reagents generating pendant electrophilic centers, in either a one or two step process. The appropriately covalentlymodified neutral polysaccharides and proteins are then reacted to form covalent polysaccharide protein conjugates and purified to remove unconjugated macromolecules and excess reagents in order to permit the immunogenic dosage to be based on the amount of covalently linked polysaccharide in the conjugate form. Immunogenic monovalent or polyvalent vaccines containing immunologically effective amounts of the polysaccharide protein conjugates according to this invention or mixtures of the polysaccharideprotein conjugates according to this invention with other covalent polysaccharide protein conjugates, such as those described in U.S.S.N. 608,738, filedMay 10, 1984, or with other immunologic materials, or their derivatives may then be prepared. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION The covalently modified polysaccharides of this invention may be modified versions of any neutral i.e., nonanionic nonacidic polysaccharides, and are not intended to be limited to any particular types. Examples of such neutral bacterial capsular polysaccharides include Streptococcus pneumoniae pneumococcal types 14, 7F and 37 polysaccharides, described in L. Kenne and B. Lindberg in ThePolysaccharides, Vol. II, pp. 287 363, Academic Press 1983 and A. S. Chaudri et al., CarbohydrateResearch, 25, 161 172 1972 The proteins according to this invention are those of proven safety and demonstrable immunogenicity, but are not limited to any particular type.Suitable proteins include bacterial membrane proteins any of various plant proteins, such as edestin or soybean trypsin inhibitor viral protein subunits, such as hepatitis A or B, herpes gD or gC,Epstein Barr or varicella zoster subunits synthetic polypeptides diphtheria toxoid or tetanus toxoid, but are preferably Neisseria meningitidis meningococcal B serotype outer membrane proteins, which are T cell stimulators. An example of these serotype proteins has been described in Helting et al., Serotype Determinant Proteins of NeisseriaMeningitidis , Actapath. Microbiol. Scand. Sect. C, 89, 69 78, 1981, and Frasch et al., J. Bact., 127, 973 981 1976 . The conjugates of the instant invention may then be any stable polysaccharide protein conjugates, coupled through bigeneric spacers containing a thioether group and alkyl amide, which form hydrolytically labile covalent bonds with the neutral polysaccharide and the protein. Preferred conjugates according to this invention, however, are those which may be represented by the formulae, Ps A E S B Pro orPs A S E B Pro, wherein Ps represents a nonanionic polysaccharide Pro represents an immunogenic protein and A E S B and A S E B constitute bigeneric spacers which contain hydrolytically stable covalent thioether bonds, and which form covalent bonds such as hydrolytically labile ester or amide bonds with the macromolecules, Pro and Ps. In the spacer, A E S B, S is sulfur E is the transformation product of a thiophilic group which has been reacted with a thiol group, and is represented byEMI9.1 orEMI9.2 wherein R is H or CH3, and p is 1 to 3 A isEMI9.3 wherein W is O or NH, m is O to 4, n is O to 3 and Y is CH2, O, S, NR , or CHCO2H, whereR is H or C1 or C2 alkyl, such that if Y is CH2, then both m and n cannot equal zero, and if Y is O or S, then m is greater than 1 and n is greater than 1 and B isEMI9.4 wherein q is O to 2, Z is NH2,EMI9.5 COOH, or H, where R and p are as defined above, and DEMI9.6 Then in the spacer, A S E B , S is sulfur A isEMI10.1 wherein a is 1 to 4 and R is CH2, orEMI10.2 where Y is NH2 or NHCOR , and W, p and R are as defined above, and E is the transformation product of a thiophilic group which has been reacted with a thiol group, and is represented byEMI10.3 wherein R is as defined above, and B isEMI10.4 or E isEMI10.5 and B isEMI10.6 wherein p is 1 to 3. Further, of the bigeneric spacers, A E S B and A S E B , the E S B and A S E components are determinable and quantifiable, with this identification reflecting the covalency of the conjugate bond linking the side of the thioethersulfur which originates from the covalently modified nonanionic polysaccharide with the side of the spacer which originates from the functionalized protein. In the process of the instant invention, the polysaccharide is covalently modified by a fragmenting it by heating the polysaccharide in water with or without aqueous hydrazine, with the water being removed by lyophilization and drying with P 205 in a vacuum, then b activating it with a bifunctional reagent in a non aqueous, polar, aprotic solvent, c reacting this activated polysaccharide with a bis nucleophile, and finally, if necessary, further d functionalizing this modified polysaccharide by either reaction, i with a reagent generating electrophilic e.g., thiolphilic sites or, ii with a reagent generating thiol groups.The protein is conversely either reacted i with a reagent generating thiol groups or ii with a reagent generating thiolphilic sites, then the covalently modified polysaccharide and the functionalized protein are reacted together to form the stable covalently bonded conjugate and the final mixture is purified to remove unreacted polysaccharides and proteins. The process of this invention also includes selection of a nucleophile or bis nucleophile which will react with the activated polysaccharide to form a covalently modified polysaccharide with pendant electrophilic sites or pendant thiol groups, thereby obviating the need to further functionalize the bis nucleophile modified polysaccharide prior to reacting the covalently modified polysaccharide with the covalently modified protein. Also, the functionalization of the protein to either moiety form may be accomplished in more than one step according to the selection of reactants in these steps.A. PREPARATION OF THE POLYSACCHARIDE In the first step toward covalentlymodifying the polysaccharide, the solid, largely insoluble polysaccharide must be solubilized. Since the neutral polysaccharides of this invention are insoluble in organic solvents or salt solutions and only marginally soluble in water, and since nucleophilic alcoholic hydroxyl groups of a polysaccharide cannot compete chemically for electrophilic reagents with the hydroxyls of water in an aqueous solution, the polysaccharide must be modified into a more soluble form, then it should be dissolved in non aqueous non hydroxylic solvents.Suitable solvents include dimethylformamide, dimethylsulfoxide, dimethylacetamide, formamide,N,N dimethylimidazolidinone, and other similar polar, aprotic solvents, preferably dimethylformamide. In U.S.S.N. 608,738, filed May 10, 1984, bacterial polysaccharides with acid groups were solubilized in non hydroxylic organic solvents by first converting them into an appropriate salt form.By contrast, Applicants accomplish the solubilization of an intact, otherwise largely insoluble neutral polysaccharide by heating these non polyanionic, neutral polysaccharides for from 30 seconds to 10 minutes at 700 to 1000C in distilled water which may or may not contain 5 15 aqueous hydrazine, thereby fragmenting the polysaccharides, but preserving the viability of the neutral polysaccharides for immunogenic vaccine use, but putting the polysaccharide in a usable form. Subsequent steps are then directed to overcoming the other significant physico chemical limitation to making covalent bonds to polysaccharides, that being the lack of functional groups on the polysaccharides, other than hydroxyl groups, which are reactive enough with reagents commonly or practically used for functionalization of units with which bonding is desired. The residual water and hydroxyl groups is removed by lyophilization and drying with P205 in a vacuum. Then, activation of the polysaccharide to form an activated polysaccharide, reaction with bis nucleophiles to form a nucleophile functionalized polysaccharide, and functionalization with reagents generating either electrophilic sites or thiol groups, are all directed to covalently modifying the polysaccharide and developing functional groups on the polysaccharide in preparation for conjugation. In the next step, the depolymerized polysaccharide is activated by reaction with a bifunctional reagent at about 00 500C, while stirring for ten minutes to one hour, with the crucial weight ratio of activating agent to polysaccharide in the range of 1 5 to 1 12. Activation with cyanogen bromide is possible according to the present invention, this reagent is poorly utilized in activation of polysaccharides and is not preferred.Instead, preferred bifunctional reagents for activating the polysaccharide include carbonic acid derivatives,EMI13.1 wherein R2 and R3 may be independently, azolyl, such as imidazolyl halides or phenyl esters, such as E nitrophenyl, or polyhalophenyl. Carbonyldiimidazole, a particularly preferred reagent, will react with the hydroxyl groups to form imidazolylurethanes of the polysaccharide, and arylchloroformates, including, for example, nitrophenylchloroformate, will produce mixed carbonates of the polysaccharide. In each case, the resulting activated polysaccharide is very susceptible to nucleophilic reagents, such as amines, and is thereby transformed into the respective urethanes. In the next stage, the activated polysaccharide is reacted with a nucleophilic reagent, such as an amine, particularly diamines, for example,EMI14.1 wherein m is O to 4, n isO to 3, and Y is CH2, O, S, NR , CHCO2H, where R is H or a C1 or C2 alkyl, such that if Y isCH2, then both m and n cannot equal zero, and if Y is O or S, then m is greater than 1 and n is greater than 1, in a gross excess of amine i.e., for example, a 50 to 100 fold molar excess of amine vs.activating agent used . The reaction is kept in an ice bath for from 15 minutes to one hour then kept for 15 minutes to one hour at about 170 400C. An activated polysaccharide, when reacted with a diamine, e.g., 1,4 butanediamine, would result in a urethane form polysaccharide with pendant amines, which may then be further functionalized by acylating. Mixed carbonates will also readily react with diamines to result in pendant amine groups. Alternatively, the activated polysaccharide may be reacted with a nucleophile, such as a monohaloacetamide of a diaminoalkane, for example, 4 bromoacetamidobutylamine see, W. B. Lawson et al.,Hoppe Seyler s Z. Physiol Chem., 349, 251 1968 , to generate a covalently modified polysaccharide with pendant electrophilic sites. Or, the activated polysaccharide may be reacted with an aminothiol, such as cysteamine aminoethanethiol or cysteine, examples of derivatives which are well known in the art of peptide synthesis, to produce a polysaccharide with pendant thiol groups. In both cases, no additional functionalization is necessary prior to coupling the covalently modified polysaccharide to the modified bacterial carrier protein. The last step in preparing the polysaccharide, the further functionalization, if necessary, of the polysaccharide, may take the form of either reacting the nucleophile functionalized polysaccharide with a reagent to generate electrophilic i.e., thiophilic sites, or with a reagent to generate thiol groups. Reagents suitable for use in generating electophilic sites, include for example, those for acylating to a haloacetyl or a halopropionyl, derivative such asEMI15.1 wherein R is H or CH3 X is C1, Br or I and X is nitrophenoxy, dinitrophenoxy, pentachlorophenoxy, pentafluorophenoxy, halide, O N hydroxysuccinimidyl or azido , particularly chloroacetic acid or a bromopropionic acid, with the reaction being run at a pH of 8 to 11 maintained in this range by the addition of base, if necessary and at a temperature of about 0 to 350C, for ten minutes to one hour. An amino derivatized polysaccharide may be acylated with activated maleimido amino acids see, O. Keller et al, Helv.Chim. Acta., 58, 531 1975 to produce maleimido groups,EMI15.2 wherein p is 1 to 3 with a 2 haloacetylating agent, such as p nitrophenylbromoacetate or with an a haloketone carboxylic acid derivative, e.g.,EMI16.1 Ber., 67, 1204, 1934 in order to produce appropriately functionalized polysaccharides which are susceptible to thio substitution. Reagents suitable for use in generating thiol groups include, for example, acylating reagents, such as thiolactones, e.g.,EMI16.2 wherein R4 is C1 C4alkyl or mono or bicyclic aryl, such as C H or ClnH, and p is 1 to 3 EMI16.3 wherein m is 0 to 4, R5 is Cl C4alkyl or C6H5, and X is as defined above, followed by treatment with HSCH,CH,OH orEMI16.4 wherein m, R5 and X are as defined immediately above, then treatment with dithiothreitol. Such reactions are carried out in a nitrogen atmosphere, at about 00 350C and at a pH of 8 11 with base added, as necessary, to keep th pH within this range , for one to twenty four hours.For example, an amino derivatized polysaccharide may be reacted withEMI16.5 to produce an appropriately functionalized polysaccharide. By these steps then, covalently modified neutral polysaccharides of the forms, Ps A Ey orPs A SH , wherein Ey isEMI17.1 and A, A ,R, X and p are as defined above, are produced.B. PREPARATION OF THE PROTEIN Separate functionalization of the protein to be coupled to the polysaccharide, involves reaction of the protein with one or more reagents to generate a thiol group, or reaction of the protein with one or more reagents to generate an electrophilic i.e., thiophilic center, as shown in U.S.S.N. 608,738, filed May 10, 1984. In preparation for conjugation with an electrophilic functionalized polysaccharide, the protein is reacted in one or two steps with one or more reagents to generate thiol groups, such as those acylating reagents used for generating thiol groups on polysaccharides, as discussed on pages 15 17 above. Thiolated proteins may also be prepared by aminating carboxy activated proteins, such as those shown in Atassi et al., Biochem et Biophys. Acta, 670, 300, 1981 , with aminothiols, to create the thiolated protein. A preferred embodiment of this process step involves the direct acylation of the pendant amino groups i.e., lysyl groups of the protein with N acetylhomocysteine thiolactone at about 0 to 350C and pH 8 to 11, for from five minutes to two hours, using equiweights of reactants.WhenEMI18.1 the conditions and method of preparing the functionalized protein are as discussed above on pages 15 17 for preparing the counterpart polysaccharide by reaction with activated maleimido acids. In preparing for conjugation with a covalently modified bacterial polysaccharide with pendant thiol groups, the protein is acylated with a reagent generating an electrophilic center, such acylating agents including, for example,EMI18.2 wherein X and X are as defined above andEMI18.3 whereinX is as defined above. Suitable proteins with electophilic centers also include, for example, those prepared by acylation of the pendant lysyl amino groups with a reagent, such as activated maleimido acids, for example,EMI18.4 or by reacting the carboxy activated protein with monohaloacetyl derivatives of diamines. In both preparation reactions, the temperature is from 0 to 350C for from five minutes to one hour and the pH is from 8 to 11.C. FORMATION OF THE CONJUGATE Formation of the conjugate is then merely a matter of reacting any of the covalently modified polysaccharides having pendant electrophilic centers with any of the proteins having pendant thiol groups at a pH of 7 to 9, in approximate equiweight ratios, in a nitrogen atmosphere, for from six to twenty four hours at from about 170 to 400C, to give a covalent conjugate.Examples of such reactions include EMI19.1 EMI19.2 wherein an activated polysaccharide which has been reacted with 4 bromoacetamidobutylamine is reacted with a protein which has been reacted with N acetylhomocysteine thiolactone, to form a conjugate, and EMI19.3 EMI20.1 where Y is a C2 C8alkyl radical , wherein an amino derivatized polysaccharide which has been reacted with activated maleimido acids is reacted with a carboxy activated protein which has been aminated with an aminothiol, to form a conjugate. Similarly, any of the covalently modified polysaccharides with pendant thiol groups may be reacted with any of the proteins having pendant electrophilic centers to give a covalent conjugate.An example of such a reaction is EMI20.2 wherein an activated polysaccharide which has been reacted with an aminothiol is reacted with a carboxy activated protein which has been reacted with monohaloacetyl derivatives of a diamine, to form a conjugate. These conjugates are then centrifuged at about 100,000 times G using a fixed angle rotor for about two hours at about 10 to 200C, or are submitted to any of a variety of other purification procedures, including gel permeation, ion exclusion chromatography, gradient centrifugation, or other differential adsorption chromatography, to remove non covalently conjugated polysaccharides and proteins, using the covalency assay for the bigeneric spacer see below as a method of following the desired biological activity.D. ANALYSIS TO CONFIRM COVALENCY Analysis of the conjugate to confirm the covalency, and hence the stability of the conjugate, is accomplished by Applicants by hydrolyzing preferably with 6N HC1 at 1100C for 20 hours the conjugate, then quantitatively analyzing for the amino acid of the hydrolytically stable spacer containing the thioether bond and constituent amino acids of the protein. The contribution of the amino acids of the protein may be removed, if necessary, by comparison with the appropriate amino acid standard for the protein involved, with the remaining amino acid value reflecting the covalency of the conjugate, or the amino acid of the spacer may be designed to appear outside the amino acid standard of the protein in the analysis. The covalency assay is also useful to monitor purification procedures to mark the enhancement of concentration of the biologicallyactive components. In the above examples, hydrolysis ofEMI21.1 results in the release of S carboxymethylhomocysteine, NH2HO2CCH2SCH2CH2CHCO2H hydrolysis ofEMI22.1 results in the release of the aminodicarboxylic acid, HO2C HO2CCH2CHSCH2CH2NH2 and hydrolysis ofEMI22.2 results in the release of S carboxymethylcysteamine, H2NCH2CH2SCH2CO2H by cleavage of the Ps A E S B Pro molecule at peptide linkages and other hydrolytically unstable bonds.Chromatographic methods, such as those of Spackman,Moore, and Stein, may then be conveniently applied and the ratio of amino acid constituents determined.E. APPLICATIONS One or more of the conjugates of this invention may be used in mammalian species for either active or passive protection, prophylactically or therapeutically, against bacteremia caused by the cognate organism. In preferred embodiments of this invention, the conjugates of this invention may be used in mono or polyvalent vaccines, either alone with other conjugates containing other neutral polysaccharides such as Streptococcus pneumoniae 7F, 14 and 37 with other conjugates containing polyanionic polysaccharides, such as Haemophilus influenzae type b or Streptococcus pneumoniae type 6B, l9F or 23F organisms or with unconjugated polysaccharides, such as Streptococcus pneumoniae type 3 polysaccharide. Active protection may be accomplished by injecting an effective amount a quantity capable of producing measurable amounts of antibodies, e.g., 2 to 50 pg of polysaccharide in the conjugate form of each of the conjugates being administered per dose or of unconjugated polysaccharides being administered per dose, whole antiserum obtained from animals previously dosed with the conjugate or conjugates, or globulin or other antibody containing fractions of said antisera, with or without a pharmaceuticallyacceptable carrier, such as aseptic saline solution.Such globulin is obtained from whole antiserum by chromatography, salt or alcohol fractionation or electrophoresis. Passive protection may be accomplished by standard monoclonal antibody procedures or by immunizing suitable mammalian hosts. The use of an adjuvant e.g., alum is also intended to be within the scope of this invention. In a preferred embodiment of this invention, monovalent or polyvalent compositions including, inter alia, the conjugates according to the invention, are used for active immunogenic vaccination of humans, especially neonates and infants. For additional stability, these conjugates may also be lyophilized in the presence of lactose for example, at 50 pg ml of pneumococcal polysaccharide l0 mg ml lactose prior to use. A preferred dosage level is an amount of each of the conjugates or derivative thereof to be administered corresponding to 25 ijg of polysaccharide in the conjugate form for conjugates of pneumococcal polysaccharides, 25 vg of unconjugated polysaccharides and dosages of conjugates or derivatives thereof of conjugates containing polyanionic polysaccharides according to U.S.S.N. 608,738, filedMay 10, 1984, in a single administration. If necessary, an additional one or two doses of conjugate or derivative thereof of the H. influenzae type b polysaccharide in an amount corresponding to 10 pg of the polysaccharide in the conjugate form, may also be administered. The invention is further defined by reference to the following examples, which are intended to be illustrative and not limiting. EXAMPLE 1PREPARATION OF STREPTOCOCCUS PNEUMONIAE TYPE 14CAPSULAR POLYSACCHARIDEINOCULUM AND SEED DEVELOPMENTA Stage Working Seed Preparation A lyophilized tube of Streptococcus pneumoniae type 14 bacteria inoculum seed received from Dr. Robert Austrian of the University ofPennsylvania was suspended in 1 ml of sterile beef heart infusion broth. 25 gm of Heart Infusion Broth Difco in 0.9 liters of water and this suspension was spread on five rabbit blood agar 20 gm purified agar, 25 gm heart infusion broth, 100 ml defibrinated rabbit blood, 0.9 liter distilled water plates with approx. 0.2 ml of culture each. After approx. 18 hours incubation at 370C, the growth on the plates was resuspended on each rabbit blood agar plate with 5 ml of beef heart infusion broth each and pooled. One half milliter of this resuspended growth was used to inoculate each of 6 flasks of liquid blood medium 90 ml of beef heart infusion broth and 10 ml of defibrinated rabbit blood , which were then incubated without agitation at 370C for approx. 18 hours.B Stage 2 Liter Non baffled Erlenmeyer Flasks Two of the flasks of Streptococcus pneumoniae type 14 bacteria wprking seed from A Stage were combined and 20 ml of this seed was inoculated into each of five 2 liter non baffled Erlenmeyer flasks containing 900 ml of sterile pneumococcus inoculum medium see below and 100 ml of 25 dextrose solution. The pH of the flasks was maintained at pE 6.0 7.0 by the addition of 12 sodium bicarbonate solution and after 7 hours incubation at 370C, at which time a typical OD660 value was 2.90 the growth from four of the flasks was pooled the pool having an OD660 of 2.80 and a pH of 6.8 . Pneumococcus Inoculum MediumySoya Peptone 20 gmYeast Extract Ultrafiltrate 1 100 ml NaCl Reagent 5 gm KzHPO4 2.5 gm 2 Phenol Red .5 mlDistilled Water 1 literY The solution was sterilized by autoclaving at 1210C for 25 minutes. The salts and soya peptone were dissolved in small volumes of hot, pyrogen free water and brought to correct final volume with additional hot, pyrogenfree water. The fermenters or flasks were then sterilized for about 25 minutes at 1210C and after cooling, the yeast extract ultrafiltrate 1 was added aseptically to the flasks or fermenters prior to inoculation. 1 Yeast extract ultrafiltrate 100 g brewers yeast extract Amber was dissolved in 1 liter distilled water and ultrafiltered in an Amicon DC 30 hollow fiber with Hl0X50 cartridges to remove molecules with m.w. 50,000. The filtrate was collected and passed through a 0.22it membrane as a sterile product.C Stage 70 Liter Seed Fermenter The pooled product of B Stage was used to inoculate a 70 liter fermenter containing thePneumococcus Seed Medium prepared as described below , with a starting pH of 6.8. The fermentation was maintained at 370C with 100 rpm agitation and monitored by optical density O.D. , glucose test and pH determinations until anO.D. of 3.25 was reached after about 4 hours . Complete Pneumococcus Seed Medium Soya Peptone 800 gm Yeast Extract Ultrafiltrate 1 4 liters K2 HPO4 Reagent 100 gm NaCl Reagent 200 gm 25 Dextrose Solution 2 4 liters Ucon B625 Antifoam 14 ml Distilled Water 31.8 liters 2 Dextrose was prepared as a sterile 25 solution in glass distilled water, and added to the 70 liter fermenter with the yeast extract ultrafiltrate.D Stage 800 Liter Production Fermenter Approximately 40 liters of the product ofC Stage was used to inoculate an 800 liter fermenter containing 530 liters of Pneumococcus ProductionMedium prepared as described below . The fermentation was maintained at 370C with 100 rpm of agitation, with the O.D., glucose and pH levels being checked about every two hours until theO.D. was similar for a two hour period, at which time the fermentation was terminated a typical final O.D.was 5.2 after 6 hours. . Pneumococcus Production Medium Soya Peptone 10.5 kg Yeast Extract Ultrafiltrate 1 52.5 liters K2HPO4 Reagent 1.313 kg NaCl Reagent 2.625 kg 25 Dextrose Solution 2 58 liters Ucon B625 Antifoam 95 ml Distilled Water 418.5 litersHARVEST AND INACTIVATION The batch was inactivated by harvesting into a kill tank containing 8.2 liters of liquified phenol.34 and 58 ETHANOL PRECIPITATION To 640 liters of the killed culture, 213.3 liters of 95 ethanol was added, at 3.6 liters minute with stirring at 20 to 260C, then 117 liters of 95 ethanol was added, at 2 liters minute, to a total final volume of 950 liters and a final concentration of 35 ethanol by volume. The mixture was stirred four additional hours at 220C to ensure complete fractionation, and the supernatant fluid was collected through a bank of five 4 inch Sharples centrifuges at 15,000 rpm flow rate of approx. 4 liters min . The insoluble pellet was discarded and the clarified fluid was brought to 588 ethanol with the addition of 559 liters of additional 95 ethanol at 7.6 liters minute. The mixture was stirred at 210C for five additional hours to insure complete precipitation. RECOVERY OF THE SECOND PELLET The resulting 34 ethanol soluble 58 ethanol insoluble precipitate was collected by centrifugation in the 4 inch Sharples centrifuge at 15,000 rpm flow rate of approx. 4 liters min. and the 58 ethanol supernatant fluid was discarded. The crude product yield was 2.435 kg of wet paste.24 ISOPROPYL ALCOHOL PRECIPITATION The 2.435 kg of 58 ethanol insoluble material was combined with 1.626 kg of material produced from a second fermentation in a like manner and the resulting 4.061 kg of material was mixed in aDaymax dispersion vessel at 15 to 290C with 30 liters of glass distilled water for 12 minutes until the suspension was homogeneous. Approximately 68 additional liters of distilled water were added to the suspension and this mixture was agitated for four hours. Twenty four liters of 5 sodium acetate solution was added to the mixture and the pH was adjusted to 6.5 by the addition of glacial acetic acid. The 120 liters of solution was brought to 24 isopropyl alcohol concentration by the addition of 37.9 liters of isopropanol at 0.3 liters minute under agitation at 15 to 290C. After additional stirring for 4 hours, the mixture was centrifuged through a 4 inch Sharples centrifuge at 15,000 rpm flow rate .35 liters minute for 5.75 hours, and through an Electronucleonics K3 Ultracentrifuge 28,000 rpm at 200 400 ml min until the effluent appears clear, and the insoluble pellet was discarded. 39 ISOPROPYL ALCOHOL PRECIPITATION AND COLLECTION OFCRUDE PRODUCT PASTE The 24 isopropyl soluble supernatant fluid from the previous step was brought to 39 isopropanol by the addition of 38.8 liters of isopropyl alcohol, at 0.3 liters minute with stirring. The mixture 194 liters was then allowed to stand with agitation for 3.25 hours, then was centrifuged for about 18 hours in two 4 inch Sharples units at 15,000 rpm flow rate 0.5 liters minute to collect the pelleted crude polysaccharide 2.006 kg .DIAFILTRATION The pellet from the centrifugation was transferred to the Daymax mixer containing 20 liters of distilled water and mixed for 30 minutes until the suspension was homogeneous. This suspension was then diluted with 300 liters of cold, glass distilled water and diafiltered to a constant conductance at about 230C on an Romicon ultrafiltration apparatus using ten HF26.5 45 XM50 cartridges. The retentate was concentrated to a minimum volume, the Romicon unit was rinsed and the rinse added to the retentate, such that the final volume was 86 liters. The ultrafiltrate was discarded.CETAVLON PRECIPITATION 1.84 Kg of Cetavlon N,N,N trimethyl lhexadecanaminium bromide was dissoved in 6 liters of distilled water and this solution was added, with agitation, over approximately 1 hour, to the 86 liters of retentate from the previous step. After aging for 4 hours, the precipitated impurities 1.925 kg were collected by centrifugation in the K3Ultracentrifuge 28,000 rpm , at 50C for 8 hours, and the supernatent fluid collected.ISOPROPANOL FRACTIONATION 28.55 Kg of sodium acetate trihydrate was added over 10 minutes to the 86 liters of the supernatant from above, with agitation, and the pH of the solution was adjusted to 6.6 with glacial acetic acid. The solution was brought to 28 isopropanol with 45.1 liters of isopropanol at 0.38 liters minute with agitation, and, after 4 additional hours of agitation, fed into the K3 Ultracentrifuge 28,000 rpm , from which 12 grams of precipitate was collected, and discarded. 38.9 Liters of isopropanol final conc. 42 was added at 0.3 liters minute to the 116 liters of supernatant, with agitation, and, after 4 additional hours of agitation, the solution was circulated to two 4 inch Sharples centrifuges, at 15 to 290C, at 15,000 rpm 1.3 liter minute flow rate each , and the effluent was discarded. TRITURATION AND COLLECTION OF FINAL PRODUCT The resulting polysaccharide pellet was triturated in a l gallon Waring blender using the 30 seconds on 30 seconds off method with 3 liters of absolute ethanol, until the paste became a hard white powder. This powder was collected on a Buchner funnel fitted with a teflon filter disc, and washed in situ with four l liter portions of absolute ethanol and with two 2 liter portions of acetone.The product was removed from the funnel and transferred to tared dishes for drying in vacuo at 20 to 250C for about 18 hours . The final yield of the product was 315.2 grams dry weight, and its properties were as follows TABLE 1 1 PNEUMOCOCCAL TYPE 14 POLYSACCHARIDE CHEMICAL ASSAY DATA Assay Result Moisture TG 6.3 Protein 4.8 Nucleic Acid 0.6 Hexosamine 28.6 Nitrogen 1.6 Phosphorus 0.2 Molecular sizing 0.19 0.21 KD on Sepharose 4B The following procedures were used in performing the above assays. 1. Moisture Standard thermogravimetry wt. loss to 1000 C using a Perkin Elmer thermobalance TSG 1. 2. Protein Lowry method Lowry et al., J. Biol. Chem., 193 265 1951 . 3. Nucleic Acid U. V. method Warburg and Christian, Biochem Z., 310 384 1942 . 4. Hexosamine Elson and Morgan, Biochem. J., 27 1824 1933 . 5. Nitrogen Combustion method using Perkin Elmer 240 CHN elemental analyzer. 6. Phosphorus Molybdate method Chen et al., Anal. Chem. 28 1756 1956 . EXAMPLE 2PREPARATION OF NEISSERIA MENINGITIDIS Bll SEROTYPE 2MEMBRANE PROTEINA. Fermentation 1. Neisseria meningitidis Group Bli A tube containing the lyophilized culture of Neisseria meningitidis obtained from Dr. M. Artenstein, Walter Reed Army Institute of Research WRAIR , Washington, D.C. was opened and Eugonbroth BBL was added. The culture was streaked onto Chocolate agar plates BBL and incubated at 370C with 5 CO2 for 36 hours, at which time the growth was harvested into 10 skim milk medium Difco , aliquoted and frozen at 700C. The organism was positively identified by agglutination with specific antiserum supplied by WRAIR and typing serum supplied by Difco. This first passage culture was streaked onto Chocolate agar plates and incubated at 370C with 5 CO2 for 18 hours, at which time the growth was harvested into 10 skim milk medium, aliquoted into 1 ml amounts and frozen at 700C. The organism was again positively identified by agglutination with specific antiserum supplied by WRAIR and typing serum supplied by Difco. A vial of the culture from the second passage was thawed and streaked onto 10 Columbia Sheep Blood agar plates CBAB BBL . The plates were incubated at 370C with 5 CO2 for 18 hours, after which time the growth was harvested into 100 ml of 10 skim milk medium, aliquoted in 0.5 ml amounts and frozen at 700C. The organism was positively identified by agglutination with specific antiserum, sugar fermentation and gram stain. A vial of the culture from this this passage was thawed, diluted with Mueller Hinton Broth and streaked onto 40 Mueller Hinton agar plates. The plates were incubated at 370C with 68 CO2 for 18 hours after which time the growth was harvested into 17 ml of 10 skimmed milk medium, aliquoted in 0.3 ml amounts and frozen at 700C. The organism was positively identi fied by Gram stain, agglutination with specific antiserum and the oxidase test.2. Fermentation and collection of cell paste a. Inoculum Development The inoculum was grown from two 0.5 ml frozen vials of Neisseria memingitidis Group B, B ll from above passage 4 . Four Mueller Hinton agar Blake bottles were inoculated, harvested approximately 18 hours later, and used as an inoculum for 5 liters of Gotschlich s yeast dialysate medium at pH 7.29. The O.D. was adjusted to 0.065 at 660 nm Perkin Elmer . The organism was grown in 5 two liter Erlenmeyer flasks each containing 1 liter of medium see below at 370C in a shaker. The O.D. was monitored at 45 , 75 and 120 minute intervals. Approximately 4 liters of broth culture, at an O.D.660 of 0.81 Spectronic 20 , resulted. A 3 ml sample was taken for Gram stain, isolation streakes onto CBAB, Mueller, Hinton, and yeast extract dextrose plates and agglutination check. All reactions were satisfactory.b. 70 Liter Seed Fermenter Approximately 3600 ml of seed culture was used to inoculate a sterile 70 liter fermenter containing 42.6 liters of complete production medium see below . The conditions for the 70 liter fermentation included 370C, 185 rpm with 10 liters minute air sparging and constant pH control at pH 7.0 for 5.5 hours. The culture was plated onto Mueller Hinton agar plates, yeast extract dextrose and rabbit blood agar plates Merck at 370C and tested for agglutination with N. meningitidis group B antiserum. The growth on Mueller Hinton agar plates, yeast extract dextrose plates and rabbit blood agar plates was normal and the agglutination reaction was positive. For this batch, the final O.D. was 0.840 at 660 microns after 5.5 hours.c. 800 Liter Production Fermenter Approximately 46.2 liters of seed culture were used to inoculate a sterile 800 liter fermenter containing 568.2 liters of complete production medium see below . The batch was incubated at 370C, 100 rpm with 60 liters minute air sparging and constant pH control at pH 7.0. Before the batch was inactivated, the culture was plated on Mueller Hinton agar plates, yeast extract dextrose plates and rabbit blood agar plates at 370C and tested for agglutination with N. meningitidis group B antiserum. The growth on Mueller Hinton agar plates, yeast extract dextrose and rabbit blood agar plates was normal and the agglutination reaction was positive. For this batch, the final O.D. was 2.24 thirteen hours after inoculation. 3. Complete Medium for nephelometer flasks and 70 and 800 liter fermenters Fraction A L glutamic acid 1.5 g liter NaCl 6.0 g liter Na2HPO4.anhydrous 2.5 g liter NH4C1 1.25 g liter KC1 0.09 g liter L cysteine HC1 0.02 g liter Fraction B Gotschlich s yeast dialysate 1280 gm of Difco Yeast Extract were dissolved in 6.4 liters of distilled water. The solution was dialyzed in 2 Amicon DC 30 hollow fiber dialysis units with three H1OSM cartridges. The dialysate and 384 gm MgSO4.7H2O and 3200 gm dextrose were dissolved in the dialysate and the total volume brought up to 15 liters with distilled water. The pH was adjusted to 7.4 with NaOH and sterilized by filtration through Millipore 0.22 p and added to the fermenter containing Fraction A. For the Nephleometer flasks 1 liter of Fraction A and 25 ml of Fraction B were added and the pH was adjusted to 7.0 7.2 with NaOH. For the 70 liter fermenter 41.8 liters of Fraction A and 900 ml of Fraction B were added and the pH was adjusted to 7.0 7.2 with NaOH. For the 800 liter fermenter 553 liters of Fraction A and 15.0 liters of Fraction B were added and the pH was adjusted to 7.0 7.2 with NaOH. d. Harvest and Inactivation After the fermentation was completed, phenol 0.58 v v final concentration was added to a separate vessel, to which the cell broth was then transferred. The material was held at room temperature with gentle stir ring until the culture was no longer viable about 24 hours . e. Centrifugation After about 24 hours at 40C, the 614.4 liters of inactivated culture fluid was centrifuged through Sharples centri fuges. The weight of the cell paste after phenol addition was 3.875 kg.B. IsolationStep 1. Washing of Bacterial Cells For each isolation, a two hundred gram aliquot of the above 0.5 phenol inactivated paste was suspended in a 800 ml portion of sterile distilled water and stirred magnetically to granular suspensions. The suspended cells were peleted at 20,000 xg for 60 minutes at 50C Beckman 19 Ti rotor, 14,500 rpm . Step 2. Extraction The washed cells were suspended in 2000 ml of 0.1M Tris 0.OlM EDTA Buffer pH 8.5 with 0.5 sodium deoxycholate TED Buffer with a Sorvall 2 quart omnimixer at setting 3 for 60 seconds. The homogeneous suspension was tranferred to 16Erlenmeyer 500 ml flasks for extraction at 56CC in a shaking waterbath for 15 minutes at temperature . The extract was centrifuged at 20,000 xg for 60 minutes at 50C Beckman 19 Ti rotor, 14,500 rpm .The viscous supernatant fluids were then decanted total volume 1980 ml and stored at 40C. The extracted cell pellets were resuspended in 2000 ml TED Buffer as described immediately above. The suspension was extracted for 15 minutes at 560C and centrifuged as above. The supernatant fluids were decanted volume 2100 ml and stored at 40C. Step 3. Concentration by Ultrafiltration The extraction supernatants from Step 2 were pooled total volume 4005 ml . Two liters of the pool were dispensed into a 2 liter New Brunswick fermentation vessel attached to a Millipore Pellicon filter apparatus fitted with two 0.45 micron durapore membranes 1 2 sq. ft. surface area . The extract supernatant was held at 250C in the fermentation vessel throughout the 90 minute concentration process. The sample was concentrated tenfold at an average transmembrane pressure of 27.5 psi. Step 4. Collection and Washing of the Serotype Protein The retentate from Step 3 205 ml was centrifuged to pellet the serotype protein at 160,000 xg for 2 hours at 50C Beckman 45 Ti rotor, 37,000 rpm . The supernatants were decanted and discarded. The protein pellets were weighed 8.12 grams and then suspended in TED Buffer 190 ml buffer 20 ml gram pellet manually with a glass rod and a Dounce homogenizer. The suspension was extracted at 560C for 15 minutes at temperature in a 500 ml Erlenmeyer flask with shaking. The suspension was centrifuged at 160,000 xg for 2 hours at 50C Beckman 45 Ti rotor, 37,000 rpm . The supernatant fluid was decanted and discarded volume 190 ml . The pellets were washed a second time in 190 ml of TED Buffer, as above.Step 5. Recovery of Product The washed protein pellets from Step 4 were suspended in 100 ml distilled water with a glass rod and a Dounce homogenizer to insure complete suspension. A Lowry Protein value of 17.0 mg ml was obtained for this suspension. At this point. 200 mg of the suspension were reserved for experimental use. The remaining bulk suspension 91 ml was diluted to 8.0 mg ml with 102.4 ml glass distilled water. The aqueous suspension was centrifuged at 12,000 xg for 15 minutes to clear it of aggregates Beckman 45 Ti rotor, 10,000 rpm . The supernatant product was withdrawn carefully by pipet to avoid the soft aggregate pellet. The product was labeled volume 182.5 ml and aliquots were assayed for sterility and pyrogen sterile product no pyrogens . The product was stored at 40C as a sterile bulk until use in conjugation at which time it was analytically characterized. The Yield was 9.5 mg LowryProtein gram of original cell paste. Table 2 1 MENINGOCOCCAL B SEROTYPE 2 PROTEIN SOLUTION CHEMICAL ASSAY DATA Assay ResultProtein Lowry 4.1 mg mlNucleic Acid RNA Bial 1.8 DNA Diphenylamine 0.6 Neutral Sugars Anthrone 1.05Sialic Acid 3.0 Molecular Weight SDS PAGE 40,000d Calculated as percent of Lowry protein. The following procedures were used in performing the assays 1. Protein as in Example 1. 2. Nucleic Acid Color development was observed with the orcinol reaction Bial which corresponded to 1.8 RNA calculated as a percentage of the protein concentration. The diphenylamine test for DNA indicated a 0.6 DNA content calculated as a percentage of the protein in the bulk solution.3. Neutral Sugars The neutral sugar content calculated as a percentage of protein was found using the anthrone colorimetric test. Scott and Melvin, Anal. Chem. 25, 1656, 1953 .4. Sialic Acid The sialic acid content was found using the resorcinol HCl method Svennerholm, Biochem. Biophys., Acta 24, 604, 1957 .5. Molecular Weight The molecular weight of the mercaptoethanol denatured protein as determined by SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis Nature 227 680 1970 , LKB Application Note 306 . EXAMPLE 3PREPARATION OF S. PNEMONIAE TYPE 14 POLYSACCHARIDE N. MENINGITIDIS B SEROTYPE OUTER MEMBRANE PROTEINCONJUGATE USING CENTRIFUGATION IN THE CONJUGATIONSTEPI. Fragmentation of pneumococcal type 14 polysaccharide with aqueous hydrazine A 100 ml round bottom flask was charged with 24 ml of H2O and 1.92 ml of 97 hydrazine and then treated in a boiling water bath until the temperature was 1000C about 3 minutes . To this was added, in one portion, 240 mg of S. Pneumoniae type 14 polysaccharide Pn 14 and the resultant solution was rapidly stirred for 1.0 minute. The flask was then cooled rapidly in an ice bath and its contents were dialyzed in Spectropor 2 tubing m.w. cutoff 12,000 14,000 vs. 32 L of H2O for 5 hours. Then dialysis was repeated in a fresh 32 L of H2O for 16 hours. The dialysate was transferred to a 50 ml centrifuge tube and centrifuged in a clinical centrifuge to remove a sludge. The supernatant was lyophylized affording 163 mg of fragmented Pn 14.II. Formation of the butanediamine derivative of depolymerized Pn 14 150 mg of fragmented Pn 14 were charged to a dry 50 ml round bottom flask and covered with 9 ml of dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO and sealed under N2. The mixture was stirred for 5.0 minutes at 540C and then 5 minutes at room temperature. Almost all of the fragmented Pn 14 was in solution at this point. 36 mg of carbonyl diimidazole were then added and the solution stirred for 40 minutes. During this time a 1,4 butanediamine dihydrochloride solution 300 mg 6 ml of H2O pH adjusted to 9.45 with 2.5 N NaOH was prepared and cooled in an ice bath. After the 40 minutes stirring the DMSO solution was added to the cooled butane diamine solution and stirred at room temperature for 4.5 hours.It was then dialyzed vs 30 L of H2O for 17.25 hours and then a fresh 4 L of H2 0 for four hours. The resultant dialysate was freeze dried affording 152 mg of the butane diamine derivative of Pn 14, Pn BuA2. KD 0.70 rate naphelometry units 153 of base polysaccharide Fluorescamine titer 150 nm NH2 mg.III. Bromoacetylation of the 1,4 butanediamine derivative of Pn 14 Pn 14 BuA2 140 mg of Pn 14 BuA2 were dissolved in 10 ml of a pH 9.15 buffer and to this solution was added 140 mg p nitrophenyl bromoacetate dissolved in 1 ml of acetonitrile. This was stoppered and stirred at 40C for 22.5 hours. It was then dialyzed vs 4 L of H2O for 6 hours, a fresh 4 L nf H2O for 16 hours and a third 4 L of H2O for 7 hours. The dialysate was then lyophylized affording 139 mg of the bromoacetyl derivative of Pn 14 BuA2 Pn 14 BuA2 BrAc .KD 0.79 Rate nephelometry units 120 of base polysacchar ide Fluorescamine titer 6 nanomoles mg by difference A 150 6 it indicates 144 nanomoles of bromoacetyl groups mg. IV. Conjugation of Pn 14 BuA2 BrAc to Functionalized N Meningitidis Protein NMP All centrifugations were performed in polycarbonate tubes and unless otherwise noted at 43,000 r.p.m. for 2 hours at 40C in a Beckman Ti 75 rotor. The unfunctionalized protein 10 ml, 5.5 mg ml was centrifuged and the pellet was resuspended using a Dounce homogenizer in 7 ml of a thiolation mixture containing of 59 mg of ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid, 11.2 mg of dithiothreitol and pH 11.3 sodium borate buffer. After it is resuspended the mixture is transferred to a centrifuge tube, capped with a serum stopper and the air replaced withN2. This was transferred to a nitrogen box and to it was added 54 mg of N acetylhomocysteine thiolactone. It was stoppered and then aged, in theN2 box for 22 hours and then its pH was adjusted to 8.0 by addition of 1M KH2PO4. The resultant mixture was centrifuged and the pellet then resuspended in 10 ml of 0.1 M PO4 pH 8.0 buffer.This was then recentrifuged to remove the remaining small molecules. The second pellet was resuspended, using a Dounce homogenizer, in 8.5 ml of pH 8.0 buffer. The Ellman assay indicates a total of 6.4 moles of thiol. To the resuspended thiolated protein was added 50 mg of Pn 14 BuA2BrAc and the resulting solution aged for 17 hours at room temperature in the nitrogen box. It was then dialyzed vs. 4 L of H2O for 6 hours. One half of the solution 5 ml was transfetred to a centrifuge tube and 4.0 g CsCl dissolved in it. The tube was filled to the top 10 ml with H2O and centrifuged for 20 hours at 43,000 r.p.m. at 40C in a Ti 75 rotor. The resultant CsCl gradient density centrifugate was fractionated, using a Haake Buchler auto Densi Flow 2C apparatus, in 1.3 ml fractions. Nine fractions were collected and numbers 5,6,7 were combined, charged to a centrifuge tube, 3.5 g of CsCl was added, the mixture was topped with H2O and centrifuged for 24 hours as above.The centrifugate was fractionated as above, the appropriate fractions detected by rate nephelometry and fractions 3 and 4 were dialyzed vs. 4L of 0.1 MPO4 buffer pH 7 for 16 hours and then vs. 4L ofH2O for 4 hours. The resultant dialysate was diluted to 10 ml with H2O.Found polysaccharide 0.205 mg ml protein 0.550 mg mlSpinco S carboxymethylhomocysteine .020 moles lysine .156 poles ratio 0.128 EXAMPLE 4PREPARATION OF S. PNEUMONIAE TYPE 14 POLYSACCHARIDEN. MENINGITIDIS B SEROTYPE OUTER MEMBRANE PROTEINCONJUGATE USING A COLUMN IN THE CONJUGATION STEP The bromoacetylated 1,4 butanediamine derivative of pneumococcal type 14 polysaccharide, prepared according to Steps I, II and III of Example 3 was then conjugated to the protein prepared according toExample 2 in a variation of Step IV of Example 3. Conjugation of Pn 14 BuA2 BrAc to the OuterMembrane Protein of Neisseria Meningitidis NMP 1.2 ml of a solution of NMP 12.4 mg ml was charged to a centrifuge tube along with 0.4 ml of a buffer solution containing saturated NaBO3 pH 11.00 and 42 mg ml ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid and 8 mg ml dithiothreitol. The tube was sealed with a serum cap, degassed and the air replaced by nitrogen. Then in a nitrogen box to it was added 10 mg N acetylhomocysteine thiolactone. The solution was aged 17 hours at room temperature. Two SephadexG25 columns PD 10 were equilibrated with pH 8.0 phosphate 0.1 M buffer. To the reaction mixture was added 0.9 ml of the pH 8 buffer and then the total amount was applied to the first column.This was eluted with 3.5 ml of pH buffer. 2.5 ml of the eluate was charged to the second G 25 column and this was eluted with 3.5 ml of pH 8 buffer. This eluate had 525 nanomoles of thiol total by Ellman s assay. To this was added 13 mg of Pn 14 BuA2 BrAc and aged under N2 for 7 hours. It was then dialyzed twice vs. separate 4 L charges of water 5 hours and 16 hours . A small sample was lyophilized for amino acid analysis. Found 0.0073 poles S carboxymethyl homocysteine 0.104 moles of lysine. The product was centrifuged at 100,000 xg and the pellet resuspended in 10 ml H2O and recentrifuged. Resuspension in 10 ml afforded solution of the Ps 14 BuA2BrAc NMP conjugate. Polysacchar ide Protein 0.25 S carboxymethylhomocysteine lysine 0.07 EXAMPLE 5ANTIBODY RESPONSE TESTS IN MICE WITH S. PNEUMONIAETYPE 14 POLYSACCHARIDE N. MENINGITIDIS B SEROTYPEOUTER MEMBRANE PROTEIN CONJUGATE An S. Pnuemoniae type 14 polysaccharideN. Meningitidis B serotype outer membrane protein conjugate solution prepared according to Example 4 was tested for immunogenic response in mice, and the results are tabulated below. Serum Antibody Response of Mice Dose, RIA Titer GMT Sample mcg. polys. Species ng ab N mlConjugate 0.1 infant ICR Ha mice 18046yy 7 day old 22256Conjugate 0.1 ICR Ha mice 19024 n 0.5 n n n 74664 Conjugate 0.5 CBA N mice 7066Polysac char idle Control 0.5 infant ICR Ha mice 49 Regimen injected i.p. on days 0, 7, 28 bled days 34 35. Results represent serology from two different litters.