# NOVEL TITANIUM CATALYSTS

## Claims
Ein Ziegler Natta Katalysator, umfassend eine Titan Komponente, die ein Titan Komplex ist oder eine Verbindung resultierend aus der Umsetzung von

## Description
This invention relates to new catalyst compositions useful for initiating and promoting polymerization of α olefins and to a polymerization process employing such catalyst compositions. It is well known that olefins such as ethylene, propylene and 1 butene in the presence of metallic catalysts, particularly the reaction products of organometallic compounds and transition metal compounds, can be polymerized to form substantially linear backbone polymers of relatively high molecular weight. Typically such polymerizations are carried out at relatively low temperatures and pressures. Among the methods of producing such linear olefin polymers, some of the most widely utilized are those described by Professor Karl Ziegler in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3,113,115 and 3,257,332. In these methods, the catalyst employed is obtained by admixing a compound of a transition metal of Groups IVB VB, VIB, and VIII of Mendeleev s Periodic Table of Elements with an organometallic compound. Generally, the halides, oxyhalides and alkoxides or esters of titanium, vanadium and zirconium are the most widely used transition metal compounds. Common examples of the organometallic compounds include the hydrides, alkyls and haloalkyls of aluminum, alkylaluminum halides, Grignard reagents, alkali metal aluminum hydrides, alkali metal borohydrides, alkali metal hydrides, alkaline earth metal hydrides and the like. Usually, polymerization is carried out in a reaction medium comprising an inert organic liquid, e.g. an aliphatic hydrocarbon, and the aforementioned catalyst. One or more olefins may be brought into contact with the reaction medium in any suitable manner. A molecular weight regulator, which is normally hydrogen, is usually present in the reaction vessel in order to suppress the formation of undesirable high molecular weight polymers. Following polymerization, it is common to remove catalyst residues from the polymer by repeatedly treating the polymer with alcohol or other deactivating agent such as aqueous base. Such catalyst deactivation and or removal procedures are expensive both in time and material consumed as well as the equipment required to carry out such treatment. Furthermore, most of the aforementioned known catalyst systems are more efficient in preparing polyolefins in slurry i.e., wherein the polymer is not dissolved in the carrier than in solution i.e., wherein the temperature is high enough to solubilize the polymer in the carrier . The lower efficiencies of such catalysts in solution polymerization is believed to be caused by the general tendency of such catalysts to become rapidly depleted or deactivated by significantly higher temperatures that are normally employed in solution processes. In addition, processes involving the copolymerization of ethylene with higher α olefins exhibit catalyst efficiencies significantly lower than ethylene homopolymerization processes. Recently, catalysts having higher efficiencies have been disclosed, e.g., U.S. Pat. Nos. 3,392,159 3,737,393 West German Patent Application No. 2,231,982 and British Pat. Nos. 1,305,610 and 1,358,437. While the increased efficiencies achieved by using these recent catalysts are significant, even higher efficiencies are desirable, particularly in copolymerization processes. Even more recently, e.g. British Pat. No. 1,492,379, high efficiency catalysts have been employed which permit polymerization temperatures above 140 C. Such high polymerization temperatures provide for reduced energy requirements in solution polymerization processes in that the closer the polymerization temperature is to the boiling point of the polymerization solvent, the less energy that is required in removing the solvent. The present invention provides for catalysts having higher efficiencies at these temperatures or higher polymerization temperatures at comparable efficiencies. The present invention pertains to a Ziegler Natta catalyst, comprising a titanium component which is a titanium complex or compound resulting from reacting each A is independently a divalent hydrocarbyl group having from 1 to 10, preferably from 1 to 4, carbon atoms each R is independently OH, or a hydroxyl substituted hydrocarbyl or a hydroxyl substituted hydrocarbyloxy group having from 1 to 20, preferably from 1 to 10 carbon atoms each R is independently hydrogen, hydroxyl or a hydrocarbyl or hydrocarbyloxy group having from 1 to 10, preferably from 1 to 6, carbon atoms each R is independently hydrogen or a hydrocarbyl group having from 1 to 10, preferably from 1 to 6, carbon atoms each X is independently a hydroxyl group, a nitro group, a nitrile group, a hydrocarbyl group, a hydrocarbyloxy group, a hydroxyl substituted hydrocarbyl or a hydroxyl substituted hydrocarbyloxy group each such groups having from 1 to 20, preferably from 1 to 12, carbon atoms or a halogen m has an average value of from about 0.01 to 6, preferably from about 1 to 3 each n independently has a value of zero or 1 each x independently has a value of from zero to 2 each y independently has a value of from zero to 4, preferably from 1 to 2 and z has a value of from zero to 3, preferably from 1 to 2 and wherein components A and B are employed in quantities which provide a molar ratio of B A of from 0.1 1 to 10 1, preferably from 1 1 to 4 1, most preferably from 1 1 to 2 1. Another aspect of the present invention provides a Ziegler Natta catalyst comprising a titanium component which is a titanium complex or compound resulting from reacting a compound A above, a compound B above, and Suitable compounds containing at least one phenolic hydroxyl group which can be employed herein includes, for example, catechol, resorcinol, bisphenol A, 4 t butylcatechol, bis hydroxyphenyl methane, 4 t octylcatechol, 3 isopropylcatechol, 3 isopropyl 6 methylcatechol, 3,5 di t butylcatechol, 3 methoxycatechol, o,o bisphenol, alizarin, 2,3 dihydroxy naphthalene, salicylaldehyde, o hydroxy acetophenone, o hydroxy benzophenone, 3,4 dihydroxy benzaldehyde, 1,1 bi 2 naphthol, 3 methoxy salicylaldehyde, mixtures thereof and the like. Particularly suitable titanium compounds which can be employed herein include for example, tetraethoxy titanium, tetraisopropoxy titanium, tetra n butoxy titanium, tetraphenoxy titanium, tetra n propoxy titanium, tetra 2 ethylhexoxy titanium, di n butoxy titanium dichloride, titanium tetrachloride, mixtures thereof and the like. Particularly suitable organomagnesium compounds include, for example, hydrocarbon soluble dihydrocarbylmagnesium such as the magnesium dialkyls and the magnesium diaryls. Exemplary suitable magnesium dialkyls include particularly n butyl sec butyl magnesium, diisopropyl magnesium, di n hexyl magnesium, isopropyl n butyl magnesium, ethyl n hexyl magnesium, ethyl n butyl magnesium, di n octyl magnesium and others wherein the alkyl has from 1 to 20 carbon atoms. Exemplary suitable magnesium diaryls include diphenylmagnesium, dibenzylmagnesium, and ditolylmagnesium. Suitable organomagnesium compounds include alkyl and aryl magnesium alkoxides and aryloxides and aryl and alkyl magnesium halides with the halogen free organomagnesium compounds being more desirable. Among the halide sources which can be employed herein are the active non metallic halides and metallic halides. Suitable non metallic halides are represented by the formula R X wherein R is hydrogen or an active monovalent organic radical and X is a halogen. Particularly suitable non metallic halides include, for example, hydrogen halides and active organic halides such as t alkyl halides, allyl halides, benzyl halides and other active hydrocarbyl halides wherein hydrocarbyl is as defined hereinbefore. By an active organic halide is meant a hydrocarbyl halide that contains a labile halogen at least as active, i.e., as easily lost to another compound, as the halogen of sec butyl chloride, preferably as active as t butyl chloride. In addition to the organic monohalides, it is understood that organic dihalides, trihalides and other polyhalides that are active as defined hereinbefore are also suitably employed. Examples of preferred active non metallic halides include hydrogen chloride, hydrogen bromide, t butyl chloride, t amyl bromide, allyl chloride, benzyl chloride, crotyl chloride, methylvinyl carbinyl chloride, α phenylethyl bromide, diphenyl methyl chloride and the like. Most preferred are hydrogen chloride, t butyl chloride, allyl chloride and benzyl chloride. Suitable metallic halides which can be employed herein include those represented by the formula MR It is understood that the organic moieties of the aforementioned organomagnesium, e.g., R , and the organic moieties of the halide source, e.g., R and R , are suitably any other organic radical provided that they do not contain functional groups that poison conventional Ziegler catalysts. The magnesium halide can be preformed from the organomagnesium compound and the halide source or it can be formed insitu in which instance the catalyst is preferably prepared by mixing in a suitable solvent or reaction medium 1 the organomagnesium component and 2 the halide source, followed by the other catalyst components. The compound or complex formed from reacting said titanium component and said component having at least one aromatic hydroxyl group per molecule can be utilized as formed or the product can be isolated and then utilized at the appropriate place in the catalyst preparation. When it is desired to prepare complexes employing molar ratios of titanium compound to hydroxyl containing compound of about 1 to 1, it is preferred to add the hydroxyl containing compound to the titanium compound. When it is desired to prepare complexes employing molar ratios of titanium compound to hydroxyl containing compound of about 1 to 2, it is preferred to add the titanium compound to the hydroxyl containing compound. Regardless of the molar ratios employed, when it is desired to prepare a complex containing mixed ligands by employing different hydroxyl containing compounds, it is preferred to add the hydroxyl containing compounds to the titanium compound wherein the most acidic hydroxyl containing compound is added first. When the titanium compound and aromatic hydroxyl containing compounds are prereacted, temperatures from 0 C to 200 C, preferably from 20 C to 100 C, can be employed. The foregoing catalyst components are combined in proportions sufficient to provide atomic ratios as previously mentioned. In cases wherein neither the organomagnesium component nor the halide source contains aluminum or contains an insufficient quantity of aluminum, it is necessary to include in the total catalyst an aluminum compound such as an alkyl aluminum compound, e.g., a trialkyl aluminum, an alkyl aluminum halide or an aluminum halide. If polymerization temperatures below 180 C are employed, the atomic ratios of Al Ti may be from 0.1 1 to 2000 1, preferably from 1 1 to 200 1. However, when polymerization temperatures above 180 C are employed, the aluminum compound is used in proportions such that the Al Ti ratio is less than 120 1, preferably less than 50 1. It is understood, however, that the use of very low amounts of aluminum necessitates the use of high purity solvents or diluents in the polymerization zone. Further, other components present in the zone should be essentially free of impurities which react with aluminum alkyls. Otherwise, additional quantities of an organometallic compound as previously described, preferably an organoaluminum compound, must be used to react with such impurities. Moreover, it is understood that in the catalyst the aluminum compound should be in the form of trialkyl aluminum or alkyl aluminum halide provided that the alkyl aluminum halide be substantially free of alkyl aluminum dihalide. In the above mentioned aluminum compounds, the alkyl groups independently have from 1 to 20, preferably from 1 to 10 carbon atoms. When additional quantities of aluminum compound are employed, it can be added to the aforementioned catalyst during the preparation thereof or the aluminum deficient catalyst can be mixed with the appropriate aluminum compound prior to entry into the polymerization reactor or, alternatively, the aluminum deficient catalyst and the aluminum compound can be added to the polymerization reactor as separate streams or additions. The foregoing catalytic reaction is preferably carried out in the presence of an inert diluent. The concentrations of catalyst components are preferably such that when the essential components of the catalytic reaction product are combined, the resultant slurry is from 0.005 to 1.0 molar moles liter with respect to magnesium. By way of an example of suitable inert organic diluents can be mentioned liquified ethane, propane, isobutane, n butane, n hexane, the various isomeric hexanes, isooctane, paraffinic mixtures of alkanes having from 8 to 12 carbon atoms, cyclohexane, methylcyclopentane, dimethylcyclohexane, dodecane, industrial solvents composed of saturated or aromatic hydrocarbons such as kerosene, naphthas, etc., especially when free of any olefin compounds and other impurities, and especially those having boiling points in the range from 50 to 200 C. Also included as suitable inert diluents are benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, cumene, decalin and the like. Mixing of the catalyst components to provide the desired catalytic reaction product is advantageously carried out under an inert atmosphere such as nitrogen, argon or other inert gas at temperatures in the range from 100 to 200 C, preferably from 0 to 100 C. The period of mixing is not considered to be critical as it is found that a sufficient catalyst composition most often occurs within about 1 minute or less. In the preparation of the catalytic reaction product, it is not necessary to separate hydrocarbon soluble components from hydrocarbon insoluble components of the reaction product. While the catalysts can be prepared by adding the components in essentially any order, it is preferred to add the components in one of the following orders It is understood that inert diluents employed in the polymerization recipe are suitable as defined hereinbefore. The polymerization pressures preferably employed are relatively low, e.g., from 5 to 10,000 psig 0.034 68.9 Mpa , preferably from 50 to 1000 psig, 0.345 6.89 MPa , most preferably from 100 to 700 psig 0.689 4.8 MPa . However, polymerization within the scope of the present invention can occur at pressures from atmospheric up to pressures determined by the capabilities of the polymerization equipment, which can include pressures up to 50,000 psig 344.5 MPa . During polymerization it is desirable to stir the polymerization recipe to obtain better temperature control and to maintain uniform polymerization mixtures throughout the polymerization zone. In order to optimize catalyst yields in the polymerization of ethylene under solution conditions, it is preferable to maintain an ethylene concentration in the solvent in the range of from 1 to 10 weight percent, most advantageously from 1.2 to 2 weight percent. To achieve this, when an excess of ethylene is fed into the system, a portion of the ethylene can be vented. In other processes, it is preferred to conduct the polymerization in an excess of the α olefin being polymerized in order to optimize catalyst yields. Hydrogen can be employed in the practice of this invention to control the molecular weight of the resultant polymer. For the purpose of this invention, it is beneficial to employ hydrogen in concentrations ranging from 0.001 to 1 mole per mole of monomer. The larger amounts of hydrogen within this range are found to produce generally lower molecular weight polymers. It is understood that hydrogen can be added with a monomer stream to the polymerization vessel or separately added to the vessel before, during or after addition of the monomer to the polymerization vessel, but during or before the addition of the catalyst. The monomer or mixture of monomers is contacted with the catalytic reaction product in any conventional manner, preferably by bringing the catalytic reaction product and monomer together with intimate agitation provided by suitable stirring or other means. Agitation can be continued during polymerization, or in some instances, the polymerization can be allowed to remain unstirred while the polymerization takes place. In the case of more rapid reactions with more active catalysts, means can be provided for refluxing monomer and solvent, if any of the latter is present, in order to remove the heat of reaction. In any event, adequate means should be provided for dissipating the exothermic heat of polymerization. If desired, the monomer can be brought in the vapor phase into contact with the catalytic reaction product, in the presence or absence of liquid material. The polymerization can be effected in the batch manner, or in a continuous manner, such as, for example, by passing the reaction mixture through an elongated reaction tube which is contacted externally with suitable cooling media to maintain the desired reaction temperature, or by passing the reaction mixture through an equilibrium overflow reactor or a series of the same. The polymer is readily recovered from the polymerization mixture by driving off unreacted monomer and solvent if any is employed. No further removal of impurities is required. Thus, a significant advantage of the present invention is the elimination of the catalyst residue removal steps. In some instances, however, it may be desirable to add a small amount of a catalyst deactivating reagent of the types conventionally employed for deactivating Ziegler catalysts. The resultant polymer is found to contain insignificant amounts of catalyst residue and to possess a relatively narrow molecular weight distribution. The following examples are given to illustrate the invention, and should not be construed as limiting its scope. All percentages are by weight and all parts are by molar or atomic ratio unless otherwise indicated. In the following examples, the melt index values I₂ and I₁₀ were determined by ASTM D 1238 70 and the density values were determined by ASTM D 1248. The position of ring substituents employed herein are in accordance with the Definitive Rules For Nomenclature of Organic Chemistry as provided in the The titanium complexes were prepared by mixing stock solutions 0.015 molar of the titanium source, titanium tetrachloride TiCl₄ or titanium tetraisopropoxide tipt , and the aromatic hydroxyl ligand in the desired ratio. The ratio L M of moles ligand L to moles of titanium in the titanium source M utilized to prepare the desired complexes employed in the following examples is shown under the column heading L M. The various stock solutions were prepared at ambient temperatures by diluting the titanium source and or ligand with Isopar E an isoparaffinic hydrocarbor fraction having a boiling range of 116 134 C to the desired volume to produce 0.015 molar solutions. These stock solutions were stored under a nitrogen atmosphere to prevent decomposition. Complexes were prepared by mixing at ambient conditions 25 C 1.0 or 2.0 cc of the 0.015 m stock titanium source with the required amount of stock ligand 0.015 m solution to give the desired molar ligand to metal ratio L M . The mixture, usually colored, was allowed to sit for at least 5 minutes after which time it was added to the catalyst make up in place of the normal titanium source. The catalyst compositions were prepared by adding with stirring under a nitrogen atmosphere to a 4 ounce 118.3 cc serum bottle the following components in the indicated order. All final catalyst solutions were 0.00015 molar in titanium and the volume of catalyst normally injected for a polymerization run was 10 cc 0.0015 mmoles Ti . The atomic ratio of Mg Al Cl Ti for these catalysts were 40 50 100 1. To 21.16 ml of 0.709 molar dibutyl magnesium was added 78.84 ml of Isopar E. Anhydrous electronic grade HCl was passed through the solution until all of the magnesium alkyl had been converted to magnesium chloride. Excess HCl was stripped from the slurry by purging with dry N₂. The resulting slurry 0.15 molar of MgCl₂ in Isopar⁶ E was stored under a nitrogen atmosphere and utilized as a stock solution in the preparation of catalyst compositions. The catalyst compositions were prepared by adding with stirring under a nitrogen atmosphere to a 4 ounce 118.3 cc serum bottle the following components in the indicated order. All final catalyst solutions were 0.0003 molar in titanium and the volume of catalyst normally injected for a polymerization run was 15 cc 0.0045 millimoles Ti . The atomic ratios of Mg Al Cl Ti for these catalysts were 40 20 90 1. The catalyst compositions were prepared by adding with stirring under a nitrogen atmosphere to a 4 ounce 118.3 cc serum bottle the following components in the indicated order. All final catalyst solutions were 0.0003 molar in titanium and the volume of catalyst normally injected for a polymerization run was 15 cc 0.0045 millimoles . The final atomic ratios of Mg Al Cl Ti are shown in the appropriate Tables. A stirred, 1 gallon 3.79 l batch reactor containing 2 liters of Isopar E was heated to the desired temperature and the solvent vapor pressure recorded. To this was added 5 6 psig 35 41 kPa of hydrogen and the ethylene was added to give the desired final reactor pressure. An amount of the above catalyst was injected into the reactor and the reactor pressure was maintained constant at the desired final pressure by continually feeding ethylene during the polymerization run. The total reaction time was 20 minutes 1200 s . The novel titanium species, the L M ratio utilized in it s preparation and the resulting catalyst efficiencies are given in the following tables. All catalyst efficiencies are given as grams of polyethylene produced per gram of titanium employed in the 20 minutes 1200 s polymerization run. Table I provides the results obtained when the titanium compound is tetraisopropyltitanate and a hydroxyl containing compound represented by the formula wherein X and R are identified in the table, and y has a value of 1. The number accompanying the identifying group represents the location which the inventors herein believe the X group is positioned on the ring. The data in Table I demonstrates that catalysts employing the complexes of the present invention have higher catalyst efficiencies based upon titanium than when a different titanium source is employed. Table II provides results obtained when the titanium compound is tetraisopropyltitanate and the hydroxyl containing compound is represented by the formula wherein X is identified in the table, and y has a value of zero to 2. The number accompanying the identifying group corresponds to the location which the inventors herein believe the X group s is are positioned on the ring. The data in Table II demonstrates that the novel titanium complexes provide an improvement in catalyst efficiency based on titanium at various methods of catalyst preparation and varying polymerization conditions. The following Table III compares the results obtained from catalysts prepared by the sequential addition of the titanium compound and the hydroxyl containing compound Example 43 with the results obtained from prereacting the titanium compound with the hydroxyl containing compound Example 44 and no hydroxyl containing compound Comparative Experiment G . The polymerization conditions employed were C. The catalysts were prepared using method B 2. TEA triethylaluminum. The L M ratio in Examples 43 and 44 was 2 1. Table IV provides results obtained with different titanium complexes. The formulas refer to those employed in the specification. The polymerization method employed was E. The catalyst preparation method employed was B 3. The titanium compound M and hydroxyl containing compound L were prereacted prior to use. The following Table V demonstrates the results obtained using various support MgCl₂ Ti ratios. The catalyst was prepared by procedure B 3 using the following compounds and indicated mole ratios. Polymerization method F was employed. Table VI demonstrates the results obtained at various levels of excess halide source. The catalyst was pre pared by method B 3 and the polymerization was conducted by method C. Tetraisopropyl titanium was employed as the titanium compound, 4 t butylcatechol was employed as the hydroxyl containing compound and ethylaluminum dichloride EADC or diethylaluminum chloride DEAC was employed as the excess halide source. The L M ratio was 2 1. Table VII discloses the results obtained employing different titanium complexes and different excess halide sources. The catalysts were prepared employing method B 3. The following Table VIII compares the results obtained when the complex is prepared insitu and utilized as such 113 with the isolated recovered complex 114 . The polymerization conditions were C. The catalysts were prepared by procedure B 3. The isolated complex of Example 114 is believed to be that represented by formula X wherein X 4 t butyl n 0 m 2 y 1. 0.01 mole of the hydroxyl containing compound was placed in 30 ml of pentane. To this stirring pentane solution was added dropwise 0.005 mole of tetraisopropoxy titanium dissolved in 30 ml of oxygen free pentane. Stirring was continued for 3 hours 10800 s . For t butylcatechol, 3,5 di t butylcatechol, 3 isopropylcatechol, the resulting dark red solutions were evaporated to dryness on a rotary evaporator leaving a dark red solid material. For the other hydroxyl containing materials, the complexes or compounds were isolated on a medium filter frit. All of the complexes or compounds were dried at 100 C in a vacuum oven with a nitrogen purge overnight. All of the catechol complexes or compounds were rust red in color while the others were orange yellow. The components and results are given in the following Table IX.