# Method of fusion splicing optical fibers.

## Abstract
There is disclosed a method of fusion splicing optical fibers comprising the steps of microscopically aligning the optical fibers 10₁, 10₂ , and effecting the fusion splicing of the optical fibers by means of an arc discharge generated across a pair of discharge electrodes 42₁, 42₂ which supply the optical fibers with an arc having a smaller power than that applied to said joint for the fusion splicing of the optical fibers.

## Claims
Claims 1. A method of fusion splicing optical fibers comprising the steps of aligning optical fibers 101, 102 and effecting the fusion splicing of said optical fibers by means of an arc discharge generated between a pair of discharge electrodes 421, 422 wherein the butt joint of said adjacent optical fibers is supplied with a discharge power lower than that applied for fusion splicing of said optical fibers, which burns off dust deposited on the fiber around the joint. 2. The method according to claim 1, characterized in that said step for effecting the fusion splicing is to supply to said discharge electrodes a power lower than that supplied thereto for the fusion splicing of the optical fibers. 3. The method according to claim 1, characterized in that said step for effecting the fusion splicing is to supply to said discharge electrodes a smaller current than that which is used for the fusion splicing of the optical fibers. 4. The method according to claim 1, characterized in that said step for effecting the fusion splicing is to intermittently supply to a discharge current so as to reduce its average value from that which is supplied thereto for the fusion splicing of the optical fibers. 5. The method according to claim 4, characterized in that said step for effecting the fusion splicing is to intermittently supply to said discharge electrodes a discharge current in such a manner that the generation of an arc is sustained between said discharge electrodes. 6. The method according to claim 1, characterized in that said step for effecting the fusion splicing is to set said adjacent optical fibers apart from a straight line extending between the discharge electrodes. 7. The method according to claim 1, characterized in that said step for effecting the fusion splicing is to supply to said discharge electrodes a power substantially equal to the power supplied thereto for the fusion splicing of the optical fibers for a time period shorter than that required for the fusion splicing of the optical fibers.

## Description
Method of fusion splicing optical fibers This invention relates to a method of fusion splicing single mode optical fibers which, particularly, comprises centering the cores of the single mode optical fibers using a microscope and carrying out fusion splicing of the cores by arc discharge. A conventional method of fusing splicing optical fibers using a microscope comprises the steps of fitting a pair of single mode optical fibers requiring fusion splicing into the V grooves of a pair of facing support members to let the exposed portions of the fibers abut each other providing a light source below and one to the side of the abuttal supplying a data processor with two fiber images obtained by the light sources, namely, fiber image signal IMxl received when the fiber is illuminated in the direction of X and fiber image signal IMx2 obtained when the fiber is illuminated in the direction of X, to determine the displacement of the paired fibers shifting the positions of the support members holding the abutting fibers in the V grooves to the extent corresponding to the displacement, thereby effecting the centering of the fiber cores generating an arc by means of a pair of electrodes located on the sides of the butt joint of the fibers, thereby effecting the fusion splicing of the butt joint. In this case, as shown inFig. 1, each image, IMxl and IMx2, of the two fibers, obtained when the fibers are illuminated in the direction of X, comprise a dark region A extending along both sides, a bright region B interposed between parallel dark regions A and two parallel slightly dark lines C extending straight through the bright region B. The same is true for the images, though not shown, obtained when the fibers are illuminated in the Y direction. On scanning lines SL1 and SL2, therefore, images IMx andIMy have the levels of brightness illustrated in Fig. 2.Regions A and B are provided by lens effect of the cylindrical configuration of the fibers and the region defined between two parallel lines C represents the core of the optical fiber. When lines C of images IMxl and IMx2 have been aligned, the cores of the fibers are centered. However, in centering, when foreign matter such as dust exists on the exposed portions of the fibers, fiber images IMxl andIMx2 contain noise. In such a case, the two parallel lines C of fiber images IMxl and IMx2, which correspond to the axial edges of the fiber core, become indistinct, resulting in a failure to effect precise centering of the optical fibers. Most foreign matter is the residue of the primary fiber coating material settled on the exterior of the fibers. The conventional process used to eliminate such residue is to clean the fiber surface with a piece of gauze soaked in alcohol. However, such conventional process fails to completely clean the fiber surface. If too forcefully rubbed, the fiber surface will be damaged, probably reducing the mechanical strength of the fiber. Another source of dust on optical fibers is extremely fine foreign matter floating in the air. With a single mode optical fiber having a diameter generally measuring several microns, fine particles floating in the air having a larger diameter than about 10 microns significantly decrease the precision with which the fiber cores should be centered. To eliminate these problems, the common practice is to apply a cleaning process featuring ultrasonic waves. However, this requires an ultrasonic cleaner, increasing the cost of manufacturing optical fibers. This invention has been developed considering the aforementioned circumstances and is intended to provide a method of connecting single mode optical fibers by fusion splicing which can also efficiently eliminating dust on the surface of an optical fiber without damage. According to the invention, there is provided a method of fusion splicing optical fibers comprising the steps of aligning optical fibers and effecting the fusion splicing of said optical fibers by means of an arc discharge generated between a pair of discharge electrodes, wherein the butt joint of said adjacent optical fibers is supplied with a discharge power lower than that applied for fusion splicing of said optical fibers, which burns off dust deposited on the fiber around the joint. This invention can be more fully understood from the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 1 illustrates a pair of optical fibers to be joined by fusion splicing Fig. 2 indicates the various degrees of brightness appearing across the images of Fig. 1 Fig. 3 schematically shows an apparatus for forming optical fibers by fusion splicing Fig. 4 indicates part of the apparatus of Fig. 3 and Figs. 5 and 6 illustrate a pair of discharge electrodes installed on either side of an optical fiber. Description may now be made with reference toFigs. 3 to 6 of the method of this invention for fusion splicing optical fibers. As seen from Figs. 3 and 4, the method of the invention comprises the steps of fitting a pair of single mode optical fibers 101 and 102, in the V grooves provided in the facing support members 201 and 202, and causing the exposed portions of the optical fibers 101, 102 to abut each other.Fig. 3 shows the Z direction view of the subject apparatus, thus indicating fiber 101 and support member 201. After the aforementioned abutting step, in the conventional method of fusion splicing optical fibers, centering the cores of the abutting optical fibers is performed. With the present invention, however, dust 40 Fig. 5 deposited on the exposed portions of optical fibers 101 and 102 is removed. This invention is characterized in that for the removal of dust 40, the exposed portion of optical fibers 101 and 102 is supplied with a discharge power which is weaker than that required for the fusion splicing of optical fibers 101 and 102, but which is sufficiently strong for the incineration of dust 40 adhering to the optical fibers. Thus the deposited dust is cleaned by combustion. The generation of.discharge power for the removal of dust is not effected by any extra unit, but by use of the arc generator used for fusion splicing. Specifically, as shown in Fig. 4, a current having a sufficient magnitude is supplied to a pair of discharge electrodes 421 and 422, located near the butt joint of optical fibers 101 and 102. Thus, arc 44 is generated which has a lower magnitude than that applied for the fusion splicing of optical fibers 101 and 102, but is fully sufficient to incinerate dust 40 Fig. 5 . Thus the dust 40 settled there can be taken off by combustion. Dust on the exposed portion of optical fibers 101 and 102 may also be removed from each fiber separately. When fibers 101 and 102 are moved axially duriny arc discharge, as shown by arrow in Fig. 5, dust 40 on the entire exposed portions can be removed. At a later step, the exposed portions of optical fibers 101 and 102 connected by fusion splicing are covered by a heat shrinkable sheath. After covering the sheath, when dust existed on fibers 101 and 102, the surface of the protective layer formed is rough. The ununiform surface of the protective layer causes socalled micro bending of signal light. When dust 40 on the entire surface of the exposed portions has been removed, the surface of the protecting layer formed is smooth which prevents micro bending. Power of about 10 W has to be supplied to generate a sufficient arc for the fusion splicing of optical fibers of the quartz series having a diameter of, for example, 125 microns. However, only about 5 W of power is necessary for the aforementioned combustion of dust.In the latter case, the arc only has to be generated for about 1 to 5 seconds. The discharge power for the elimination of dust may be supplied to the abuttal of the optical fibers using one of the following processes. 1 To cause combustion, the distance between electrodes 421 and 422 and the abuttal of adjacent optical fibers 101 and 102 is allowed to be larger than that defined for the fusion splicing of the adjacent optical fibers. When optical fibers of the quartz series having a diameter of 125 microns are connected by fusion splicing, an arc discharge is produced between electrodes 421 and 422 generally set apart at distanceD, about 1.5 mm. No change in distance D is desired, because it alters the discharge starting voltage. As seen from Fig. 6, therefore, the adjacent fibers 101 and 102 though fiber 102 is not shown are positioned slightly apart from a straight line 46 extending between the ends of paired electrodes 421 and 422.Even. when an arc discharge is produced between the paired electrodes 411, 422, with the same intensity as that applied for the fusion splicing of the adjacent optical fibers, the separation of the paired electrodes 421i 422 from the straight line 46 ensures the generation of a smaller discharge power than that which is applied for the fusion splicing of the optical fibers. 2 Another dust elimination method is applying a discharge current of a smaller magnitude than that used to connect optical fibers by fusion splicing. In this case, distance D between paired electrodes 441 and 442 and the abuttal of adjacent quartz optical fibers having a diameter of 125 microns is set at about 1.5 mm. For the fusion splicing of the optical fibers, the arcgenerating current is set at a magnitude of about 20 mA.Therefore, dust removal is possible, if the discharge current is set at about 10 mA. 3 The average value of the discharge current is reduced by causing it to be intermittently supplied. If power is intermittently supplied at short intervals, the space between paired electrodes 441 and 442 remains affected due to the presence of residual ions. The dust eliminating current having a small average magnitude is reduced to a lower level than that applied for the fusion splicing of the optical fibers. 4 A power substantially equal to the power supplied to the discharge electrodes for fusion splicing of the fibers is supplied to the discharge electrodes for a time period shorter than that for the fusion splicing of the fibers. Power of about 10 W has to be supplied for 1 to 5 seconds to the discharge electrodes to generate a sufficient arc for the fusion splicing of optical fibers of the quartz series having a diameter of, for example, 125 microns. To cause dust combustion, a power of about 10 W is supplied to the discharge electrodes for from 50 msec.to 600 msec. After the application of the discharge current for dust removal, the centering of the cores of optical fibers 101 and 102 is performed by the known previously described process. Light source 24 Fig. 4 is provided below optical fibers 101 and 102, and light source 26 is set to the side of the connecting fibers. Light is emitted from both sources. The light beam sent from source 24 proceed in the Y direction, and the light beam from source 26 project in the X direction. Deflection mirror 28 is located opposite the abuttal of the optical fibers to light source 26. Deflection mirror 28 causes the light beam from light source 26 in the X direction to deflect in the Y direction. Microscope 30 is set above the abuttal of optical fibers 101 and 102.Microscope 30 receives the light beam from light source 24 through the abuttal of optical fibers 101 and 102 in theY direction and the light beam from light source 26 in the X direction and later deflected in the Y direction by means of the deflection mirror 28. Television camera 32 fitted to microscope 30 picks up the abuttal of optical fibers 101 and 102 represented by the received light beams. These signals are transmitted to monitor screen 34 connected to television camera 32 Fig. 3 . Television camera 32 is connected to data processor 36. Image signals picked up by the television camera 32 are transmitted to data processor 36, which determines any displacement of fibers 101 and 102 by performing the prescribed arithmetic operation on the received signals.Drive unit 38 connected to data processor 36 receives the signal representing the displacement, if there is any, of the optical fibers, which has been determined by data processor 36. Drive unit 38 drives support members 201 and 202 holding adjacent fibers 101 and 102, respectively, to such extent as compensates for the displacement. The aforementioned process aligns optical fibers 101 and 102. After termination of the alignment of the optical fibers, external power of the prescribed magnitude is supplied to paired electrodes 421 and 422 to effect the fusion splicing of optical fibers 101 and 102. As seen from the foreyoing description1 the present invention is characterized in that before the alignment of the optical fibers, the fibers are supplied with a discharge power sufficient to burn off dust on the fiber surface, but lower than the power used for the fusion splicing of the optical fibers. As described above, the present invention for the fusion splicing of optical fibers offers advantages in that it is not necessary to provide a separate unit for the removal of dust on the fiber surface the fusion splicing of the fibers can be easily effected the fusion splicing of the optical fibers can be carried out immediately after the aligning of the optical fibers, thereby minimizing the possibility of more dust settling on the fiber surface after the elimination of existing dust and should any new dust be deposited, the amount is extremely minute, and unlikely to obstruct the alignment. The foregoing embodiment refers to the case where the present invention is applied to the fusion splicing of optical fibers including alignment of the fibers with a microscope. However, it will be noted that the invention is not limited to the aforementioned process.However, with the aforementioned method using a microscope, the deposition of dust particularly on the faces of optical fibers to be subject to fusion splicing causes noise which noticeably reduces the precision with which the optical filament cores can be aligned. Therefore, the present invention can be very effective for the aforementioned fusion splicing method.