# Quaternized imidazoline derivatives suitable for use as fabric softeners.

## Abstract
Aminopropyl ethylene diamine is reacted with a fatty acid or amide forming derivative thereof to form a fatty diamide having a secondary amine group. The secondary amine group is then converted into a tertiary amine group by imidazoline formation or by alkoxylation and the tertiary amine group is quaternised. The resultant product includes an aminopropyl group which imparts improved fabric softening properties.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A composition of matter which is the product obtained by reacting together aminopropyl ethylene diamine with a fatty acid or amide forming derivative thereof to form a fatty diamide having a secondary amine group, converting the secondary amine group into a tertiary amine group by imidazoline formation or by alkoxylation, and quaternising the tertiary amine group. 2. A composition of matter having the general formulaEMI20.1 wherein R and R are fatty acid radicals having from 12 to 18 carbon atoms, Y is an alkyl or aryl radial, and X is a halide or metho sulphate ion. 3. A composition of matter as claimed in claim 2 and having the formulaEMI20.2 where R is an oleic radical. 4. A composition of matter as claimed in claim 2 and having the formulaEMI21.1 where R is an oleic or stearyl radical. 5. A composition of matter having the general formulaEMI21.2 wherein R and R are fatty acid radicals having from 12 to 18 carbon atoms, Y is an alkyl or aryl radical, X is a halide or metho sulphate ion, R is a hydrogen atom or a methyl group, and n is an integer of from 1 to 10. 6. A composition of matter as claimed in claim 5 and having the formulaEMI21.3 where R is an oleic or stearyl radical. 7. A composition of matter as claimed in claim 5 and having the formulaEMI22.1 where R is an oleic or stearyl radical 8. A process for producing a composition of matter by reacting together i a compound containing at least two primary amine groups and ii a fatty acid or amide forming derivative thereof to form a fatty diamide having a secondary amine group, converting thesecondaryamine group into a tertiary amine group by imidazoline formation or by alkoxylation, and quaternising the tertiary amine group characterised in that said compound is amino propyl ethylene diamine. 9. A process in accordance with claim 8 wherein the fatty acid is oleic acid or stearic acid. 10. The use of a composition, as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 7, as a fabric softener.

## Description
Improvements in or relating to corgositions of matter suitable for use as fabric softeners This invention relates to compositions of matter suitable for use as fabric softeners. It has long been known that certain cationic amine functional compounds confer what is commonly referred to as softness to various fabrics. In addition to providing softness, the treatment of the fabrics with these cationic chemicals also confers anti static properties to the fibres whether they are synthetic or natural fibres. The types of cationic chemicals which have been proposed for this purpose are exemplified below Type 1 Alkyl dimethyl quaternary ammonium compoundsEMI1.1 where R and R are fatty radicals having from 12 to 18 carbon atoms and where X is halide, preferably chloride, or metho sulphate anion. Type 2 Quaternised amido imidazolinesEMI1.2 v iire P. and R and X have the meanings give above. Type 3 Quaternised alkoxylated fatty amioes EMI2.1 where R , R and X have the meanings given above. blost cationic compounds similar to those described above will confer some degree of softness onto a fabric. Houever, they can and do differ in other properties e.g.ease of application, cost, re wetting properties, dispersibilitp. properties, softening powder and anti static properties. In general most cationic softeners are based on either a di hydrogenated tallow amine or an amido imidazoliDe based on diethylene triamine , both quaternised with either methyl chloride or dimethyl sulphate..Previous work has already shown that an alkyl chain length of C6 to C18 is preferred, that straight chains are better than branched chains, and that saturated alkyl radicals are preferred to unsaturated radicals.However, none of the hitherto described fabric softeners is eDtirely satisfactory. It is an object of the present invention to provide novel compositions of matter which have improved properties as fabric softeners. According to one aspect of the present invention there is provided a composition of matter having the general formulaEMI2.2 wherein R and R are fatty radicals having from 12 to 38.carbon atoms, Y is alkyl or aryl, and X is a halide or a metho sulphate ion. According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided a composition of matter having the general formulaEMI3.1 where R , Ras , X and Y have the meanings given above, R is a hydrogen atom or a methyl group, and n is from 1 to 10. According to a further aspect of the present invention there is provided a composition of matter which is the product obtained by reacting together aminopropyl ethylene diamine with fatty acid or amide forming derivative thereof to.form a fatty diamide having a secondary amine group, converting the secondary amine group into a tertiary amine group by imidazoline formation or by alkoxylation, and quaternising the tertiary amine group. Although the compositions of the present invention have improved softening power, theg generally also have other advantages such as easier handling, better dispersing properties, better re wettability properties and the ability to produce higher active formulations without associated viscosity problems. In addition, these improved properties can be achieved at a cost which is no greater than that of conventional fabric softeners. The compositions of the present invention are either quaternary ammonium derivatives of fatty amino propyl imidazolines or quaternary ammonium derivatives of alkoxylated amino propyl amino ethyl fatty amides. Specific examples of the novel compositions of matter of the present invention are as follows EMI4.1 where R is sn oleic nr stearvl radical.EMI4.2 where R is an oleic radical.EMI4.3 where R is an oleic or stearyl radical.EMI4.4 where is an oleic or stearyl radical. The presence of the amino propyl groups in the compositions of the present invention confers very desirable properties to the composition insofar as their utility as fabric softeners is concerned. Generally, these novel compounds of the invention show the following advantages when compared with conventional fabric softening compounds a Improved softness b Lower set point c Ability to produce dispersions in water at higher concentrations e Improved re wetting properties f Improved cold water dispersibility In addition, these novel compounds have acceptable cost and after yellowing and anti static characteristics. Those compositions of the present invention which are quaternary ammonium derivatives of fatty acid amido propyl imidazolines may be prepared by reacting approximately one mole of amino propyl ethylene diamine with approximately two moles of fatty acid or amide forming derivative thereof such as the glyceride or other ester or the acid chloride to produce a fatty diamide with the following structure. R1 CONH CH2 CH2 NH CH2 Cll2rCH2 NH CO R where R and R are saturated or unsaturated fatty acid radicals 6f the same or tr different compositions and having from 12 to 18 carbon atoms. This diamide is then further reacted to produce imidazoline formation with the liberation of water . The resultant imidazoline has the following structure EMI5.1 This amido propyl imidazoline is then oua1crl.iseu by reaction with an alkylating agent of the type YX where Y is an alkyl or aryl group and X is 2 halide preferably chloride or metho sulphate group to form the desired composition of the structure EMI6.1 Those compositions of the present invention which are quaternary ammonium derivatives of alkoxylated amino propyl amino ethyl fatty amides may be prepared by reacting approximately one mole of amino propyl ethylene diamine with approximately two moles of fatty acid or amide forming derivative thereof under conditions such as to prevent or reduce cyclisation to the imidazoline.The resultant diamide hds the following structure R CO NH CH2 CH2,NH CH2 CH2 NH CO R where R and R have the meanings given above. The next step is to further react this diamide with either ethylene oxide or propylene oxide, reaction taking place at the secondary amine group. The resultant alkoxylated fatty diamide has the following structure.EMI6.2 where R , R, R and n have the meanings given above. This is then quaternised with an alkylating agent YX to give a quaternary ammonium compound withEMI7.1 where Y and X have the meanings given above. The following Examples illustrate the invention. Example 1 600 grms of tallow fatty acid and 36 grms of oleic acid were charged into a glass reactor fitted with an azeotropic distillation facility. 137 grms of amino propyl ethylene diamine were added to the above followed by 100 grms of toluene. The whole was reacted at a temperature of between 700C and 1500C during which water of reaction was removed by distillation. Reaction was continued until the residual acid value was less than 5.0 . At this stage, vacuum was applied and the temperature was raised to effect cyclisation to imidazoline and to remove toluene. Conversion to imidazoline as followed by wet analytical or.infra red techniques. The cyclisation was stopped when the imidazoline content reached a minimum of 90X. The product was discharged and allowed to cool. 275 grms of the above product was charged into a clean dry flask followed by 109.5 grms of iso propanol and 1.5 grms of the chelating agent Nervanid FF. Nervanid FF is sodium N dihydroxy ethyl glycinate . This mixture was stirred for 15 minutes. 53.4 grms of dimethyl sulphate were then added over a period of 2 hours holding the leriperature between 400C and 700C . 6.0 grms oi hydrogen peroxide were then added and the whoRe stirred.The pH of the product was then adjusted to between 5 and 7 by addition of dimethyl sulphate. Properties of the Product Solids content 75 pH 5 7 Set point 7 C Colour Gardner 6 Example 2 544 grms of tallow fatty acid were charged into a glass reactor fitted with an azeotropic distillation facility. 117 grms of amino propyl ethylene diamine were added to the above followed by 100 grms of toluene. The whole was reacted at a temperature of between 700C and 1300C during which time water of reaction was removed by distillation. Reaction was continued until the residual acid value was less than 5.0. At this stage, the azeotropic distillation was s.topped and normal distillation was commenced. Vacuum was appl ied and.the toluene and residual water were removed keeping the temperature below 150 C. The product was cooled. To 625 grms of the above product, 44 grms of ethylene oxide were added and the whole reacted at 30 400C for one hour. 265 grms of iso propanol were then added and the whole stirred for 15 minutes. 1.5 grms of Nervanid FF were then added followed by the addition of 126 grms of dimethyl sulphate over a period of 2 hours at a temperature of between 400C and 700C. 5.5 grms of hydrogen peroxide were then added and the pH of the product was adjusted to between 5.0 and 7.0 with dimethyl sulphate. Properties o f th e product Solids content 75 pH 5.0 7.0 Set point 4 Colour Gardner 7 Example 3 600 grms of oleic acid were charged into a glass reactor fitted with an azeotropic distillation facility. 125.4 grms of amino propyl ethylene diamine were added to the above followed by 135 grms of toluene. The whole was reacted at a temperature of between 70 C and 1500C during which water of reaction was removed by distillation. Reaction was continued until the residual acid value was less than 5.0. At this stage, vacuum was applied and the temperature was raised to effect cyclisation to imidazoline and to remove toluene. Conversion to imidazoline was followed by wet analytical or infra red techniques.The cyclisation was stopped when the imidazoline content reached a minimum of 90 . The product was discharged and allowed to cool. 500 grms of the above product was charged into a clean dry flask followed by 202 grms of isopropanol and 2.8 grms of the chelating agent NervanidFF. Nervanid FF is sodium N dihydroxy ethyl glycinate .This mixture was stirred for 15 minutes. 105.9 grms of dimethyl sulphate were then added over a period of 2 hours holding the temperature between 400C and 700C. 11.2 grms of hydrogen peroxide were then added and the whole stirred. The pH of the product was then adjusted to between 5 and 7 by addition of dimethyl sulphate.Properties of the ProductSolids Content 75 pH 5 7Set point 5 C Colour Gardner 8. The improved prc perlies oi te products of the present invention are illustrated in the folAouing performance tests. Softness Properties A number of 100 cotton nappies of size 60 cm x 60 cm were washed to desize them. Four of the nappies were then rinsed with water containing 0.1 of one of the fabric softeners under test and dried in a tumble drier for a set time at a set temperature. The experiment was repeated for each of the other fabric softeners using a different set of four nappies each time. After drying, the nappies were folded and each set of four was assessed for handle by.a panel of five people. After the assessment, a strip of cotton 30 cm x 2.5 cm was removed from two separate nappies from each set of four nappies. These strips were then used in the re wetting tests to be described hereinafter. After the removal of these strips, the nappies were then rinsed with water and treated again with 0.1 of the appropriate fabric softener and dried. Again strips 30 cm x 2.5 cm were removed from the same nappies as the previous strips and tested for re wetting properties. The nappies were tested in this way four times. In addition to the products ofExamples 1, 2 and 3,three competitive fabric sof.teners were included in the test program along with an untreated set of nappies. The results of the assessment panel were statistically analysed and the products are listed in order of the softening power in Table 1 below TABLE 1EMI11.1 tb No. SEP Product tb 1 SEP Example SEP 1 SEP 1 methyl 1 tallow SEP amido tb SEP propyl 2 tallow SEP imidazolinium tb SEP metho SEP sulphate tb 2 SEP Example SEP 3 SEP 1 methyl 1 oleyl SEP amido tb SEP propyl 2 oleyl SEP imidazolinium tb SEP metho SEP sulphate. tb 3 SEP Example SEP 2 SEP N tallow SEP amido SEP ethyl SEP N tallow tb SEP amido SEP propyl SEP N ethoxylated SEP methyl tb SEP ammonium SEP metho SEP sulphate tb 4 SEP Product SEP B SEP 1 methyl 1 tallow SEP amido SEP ethyl tb SEP 2 tallow SEP imidazolinium SEP metho tb SEP sulphate SEP Varisoft SEP 475 tb 5 SEP Product SEP C SEP 1 methyl 1 tallow amido SEP ethyl 2 tb SEP tallow SEP imidazolinium SEP metho tb SEP sulphate SEP Alkaquat SEP T SEP 75 tb 6 SEP Product SEP A SEP dimethyl SEP di H tallow tb SEP ammonium SEP chloride tb SEP Arquad SEP 2HT SEP 75 tb 7. SEP Untreated tb Rewetting Properties The rewetting properties were investigated using a standard wicking test carried out on the strips removed after each treatment. Each strip was dipped into water containing a dye and the height which the water attained was measured against time. The test was conducted at a temperature of 20 CC. The results are shown in Tables 2, 3 and 4 below. In each case, the heights given are in millimetres and are the average figures obtained from two tests. Table 2 Wicking test after 1st Treatment with fabric softener Time Blank Example Example Example Product Product Product mins 1 2 3 A B C 1 30 40 30 30 35 23 28 5 38 46 35 38 40 25 32 10 46 48 42 40 44 30 36 20 58 50 48 45 46 30 40 30 68 54 54 50 50 34 44 150 80 62 60 60 55 45 50 Table 3 Wicking test after 2nd Treatment with fabric softeners Time Blank Example Example Example Product Product Product minus 1 2 3 A B C 1 33 30 28 28 28 25 30 5 41 40 34 35 35 28 34 10 48 45 41 40 40 34 38 20 56 50 45 45 42 37 43 30 66 55 51 50 50 45 48 150 78 61 58 55 55 52 54 Table 4 icing Test after 4th Treatment with fabric softener Time Blank Example Example Example Product Product Product mins 1 2 3 A B C 1 32 41 31 30 30 25 32 5 37 46 34 35 35 31 35 10 45 49 43 40 41 37 38 20 56 52 48 48 47 44 44 30 66 58 55 55 53 49 48 150 76 66 61 60 59 54 54 Dispersibility Properties 4 grms of one of the fabric softeners were added to 100 grms of water. Both the water and fabric softener had been pre conditioned to 5eC . The mixture was slowly stirred and the time taken for, and ease of, dispersion were noted. Each fabric softener was tested in turn. The test was then repeated with the water and fabric softeners preconditioned to 200C. The results of the tests were as follows Product SOC 200CExample 1 very easily dispersed very easily dispersedExample 3 very easily dispersed very easily dispersedExample 2 easily dispersed easily dispersed Product A not dispersed not dispersedProduct B difficult to disperse difficult to disperseProduct C difficult to disperse difficult to disperse required warm water to disperse Set Point Comparison The set points of the products were as follows Product Set PointExample 1 7 C Example 2 4 C Example 3 SOC Product A 40 C Product B 12 C Product C 170C Example 4 600 grms of oleic acid were charged into a glass reactor fitted with an azeotropic distillation facility. 125.4 grms of amino propyl ethylene diamine were added to the above followed by 135 grms of toluene.The whole was reacted at a temperature of between 700C and 1500C during which water of reaction was removed by distillation. Reaction was continued until the residual acid value was less than 5.0. At this stage, vacuum was applied and the temperature was raised to effect cyclisation to imidazoline and to remove toluene.Conversion to imidazoline was followed by wet analytical or infra red techniques. The cyclisation was stopped when the imidazoline content reached a minimum of 90 .The product was discharged and allowed to cool. 500 grms of the above product was charged into a clean dry flask followed by 2.8 grms of the chelating agent Nervanid FF. Nervanid FF is sodiumN dihydroxy ethyl glycinate . This mixture was stirred for 15 minutes. 105.9 grms of dimethyl sulphate were then added over a period of 2 hours holding the temperature between 40 C and 700C. 11.2 grms of hydrogen peroxide were then added and the whole stirred. The pH of the product was then adjusted to between 5 and 7 by addition of dimethyl sulphate. The product had useful fabric softening properties. Example 5 600 grms of palm oil and 36 grms of oleic acid were charged into a glass reactor fitted with an azeotropic distillation facility,137 grms of amino propyl ethylene diamine were added to the above followed by 100 grms of toluene. The whole was reacted at a temperature of between 70 C and 1500C. Reaction was continued until the residual acid value was less than 5.0. At this stage, vacuum was applied and the temperature was raised to effect cyclisation to imidazoline and to remove toluene. Conversion to imidazoline was followed by wet analytical or infra red techniques. The cyclisation was stopped when the imidazoline content reached a minimum of 90 . The product was discharged and allowed to cool. 275 grms of the above product was charged into a clean dry flask followed by 109.5 grms of isopropanol and 1.5 grams of the chelating agent NervanidFF. Nervanid FF is sodium N dihydroxy ethyl glyeinate . This mixture was stirred for 15 minutes. 53.4 grms of dimethyl sulphate were then added over a period of 2 hours holding the temperature between 40 C and 700C. 6.0 grms of hydrogen peroxide were then added and the whole stirred. The pH of the product was then adjusted to between 5 and 7 by addition of dimethyl sulphate. The product had useful fabric softening properties. Example 6 600 grms of tallow fatty acid and 36 grms of oleic acid were charged into a glass reactor fitted with an azeotropic distillation facility. 137 grms of amino propyl ethylene diamine were added to the above followed by 100 grms of toluene. The whole was reacted at a temperature of between 700C and 1500C. Reaction was continued until the residual acid value was less than 5.0. At this stage, vacuum was applied and the temperature was raised to effect cyclisation to imidazoline and to remove toluene. Conversion to imidazoline was followed by wet analytical or infrared techniques. The cyclisation was stopped when the imidazoline content reached a minimum of 90 . The product was discharged and allowed to cool. 275 grms of the above product was charged into a clean dry flask followed by 109.5 grms of isopropanol and 1.5 grams of the chelating agent NervanidFF. Nervanid FF is sodium N dihydroxy ethyl glycinate . This mixture was stirred for 15 minutes. 53.4 grms of benzyl chloride were then added over a period of 2 hours holding the temperature between 400C and 700C. 6.0 grms of hydrogen peroxide were then added and the whole stirred. The pH of the product was then adjusted to between 5 and 7 by addition of benzyl chloride. The product had useful fabric softening properties. Example 7 544 grms of sunflower oil fatty acid were charged into a glass reactor fitted with an azeotropic distillation facility. 117 grms of amino propyl ethylene diamine were added to the above followed by 100 grms of toluene. The whole was reacted at a temperature of between 70DC and 1300C during which time water of reaction was removed by distillation. Reaction was continued until the.residual acid value was less than 5.0. At this stage, the azeotropic distillation was, stopped and normal distillation was commenced. Vacuum was applied and the toluene and residual water were removed keeping the temperature below 1500C. The product was cooled. To 625 grms of the above product, 44 grams of ethylene oxide were added and the whole reacted at 30 400C for one hour. 265 grams of isopropanol were then added and the whole stirred for 15 minutes. 1.5 grms of Nervanid FF were then added followed 5 the addition of 126 grms of dimethyl sulphate over a period of 2 hours at a temperature of between 400C and 70 C. 5.5 grms of hydrogen peroxide were then added and the pH of the product was then adjusted to between 5.0 and 7.0 with dimethyl sulphate. The product had useful fabric softening properties. Example 8 544 grms of tallow fatty acid were charged into a glass reactor fitted with an azeotropic distillation facility. 117 grms of amino propyl ethylene diamine were added to the above followed by 100 grms of toluene. The whole was reacted at a temperature of between 700C and 1300C during which time water of reaction was removed by distillation. Reaction was continued until the residual acid value was less than 5.0. At this stage, the azeotropic distillation was stopped and normal distillation was commenced. Vacuum was applied and the toluene and residual water were removed keeping the temperature below 1500C. The product was cooled. To 625 grms of the above product, 44 grams of ethylene oxide were added and the whole reacted at 30 400C for one hour. 265 grams of isopropanol were then added and the whole stirred for 15 minutes.1.5 grms of Nervanid FF were then added followed by the addition of 126 grms of benzyl chloride over a period of 2 hours at a temperature of between 40 C and 700C. 5.5 grms of hydrogen peroxide were then added and the pH of the product was then adjusted to between 5.0 and 7.0 with benzyl chloride. The product had useful fabric softening properties. Example 9 440grms of coconut oil fatty acid were charged into a glass reactor fitted with an azeotropic distillation facility. 125.4 grms of amino propyl ethylene diamine were added to the above followed by 135 grms of toluene. The whole was reacted at a temperature of between 700C and 1500C during which water of reaction was removed by distillation. Reaction was continued until the residual acid value was less than 5.0. At this stage, vacuum was applied and the temperature was raised to effect cyclisation to imidazoline and to remove toluene. Conversion to imidazoline was followed by wet analytical or infra red techniques. The cyclisation was stopped when the imidazoline content reached a minimum of 90 . The product was discharged and allowed to cool. 390 grms of the above product was charged into a clean kry flask followed by 202 grms of isopropanol and 2.8 grms of the chelating agent NervanidFF. Nervanid FF is sodium N dihydroxy ethyl glycinate . This mixture was stirred for 15 minutes. 105.9 grms of dimethyl sulphate were then added over a period of 2 hours holding the temperature between 400C and 70 C. 11.2 grms of hydrogen peroxide were then added and the whole stirred. The pH of the product was then adjusted to between 5 and 7 with dimethyl sulphate. The product had useful fabric softening properties. Example 10 620 grms of stearyl chloride were charged into a glass reactor fitted with an azeotropic distillation facility. 125.4 grms of amino propyl ethylene diamine were added to the above followed by 135 grms of toluene. The whole was reacted at a temperature of between 70 C and 150 C. Reaction was continued until the residual acid value was less than 5.0. At this stage, vacuum was applied and the temperature was raised to effect cyclisation to imidazoline and to remove toluene. Conversion to imidazoline was followed by wet analytical or infra red techniques. The cyclisation was stopped when the imidazoline content reached a minimum of 90 . The product was discharged and allowed to cool. 500 grms of the above product was charged into a clean dry flask followed by 202 grms of isopropanol and 2.8 grms of the chelating agent NervanidFF. Nervanid FF is sodium N dihydroxy ethyl glycinate . This mixture was stirred for 15 minutes. 105.9 grms of dimethyl sulphate . were then added over a period of 2 hours holding the temperature between 40 C and 70 C. 11.2 grms of hydrogen peroxide were then added and the whole stirred. The pH of the product was then adjusted to between 5 and 7 with dimethyl sulphate. The product had useful fabric softening properties. In each of the foregoing examples, the processing was carried out in the presence of nitrogen as an inert gas to maintain the colour of the product.