# Method of insulating a wall and wall insulated by application of said method.

## Abstract
A method of insulating a wall 1 , in particular a facade made of brickwork, concrete or the like mineral material, in which there is applied an insulating layer on the wall and a top or finishing layer on the insulating layer 2 whereby there is attached to the wall an anchoring 3, 4 which, through direct spraying of mortar against the wall, is embedded in a concrete layer forming the insulating layer 2 .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of insulating a wall, in particular a facade made of brickwork, concrete or the like mineral material, in which an insulating layer is applied on the wall and on the insulating layer a top or finishing layer, characterized in that there is attached to the wall an anchoring which, through direct spraying of mortar against the wall, is embedded in a concrete layer forming the insulating layer. 2. A method according to claim 1, characterized in that the anchoring for the insulating concrete layer is formed by a plurality of anchors which are applied in the wall and having a free end projecting from the wall, which free end is embedded in the concrete layer. 3. A method according to claim 2, characterized in that the free ends of the anchors are interconnected by threads which likewise are embedded in the insulating concrete layer. 4. An insulated wall provided with a concrete layer directly applied thereon with an anchoring embedded therein and attached to the wall and a top layer applied on the insulating concrete layer. 5. An insulated facade made through application of the method according to any one of claims 1 3.

## Description
Facade insulation. The invention relates to a method of insulating a wall, in particular of a faCade made of brickwork, concrete or the like mineral material, there being applied on the wall an insulating layer and on the insulating layer a top or finishing layer. According to a prior art method of thus manufacturing a faCade insulation, there is first applied on the façade, after cleaning same, an insulating layer by means of an adhesive layer, said insulating layer being mostly in the form of a foam sheet, while subsequently on the foam layer there is glued a glass fibre mat whereon again there is applied the water repellent finishing layer, e.g. an ornamental plaster layer. This prior art method has a number of drawbacks, such as the fact that the application of the foam layer requires a proper cleaning and smoottring of the facade, that three glueing operations have to be carried out and furthermore that this time consuming method can only be executed by skilled personnel. The final result of the prior art method also has drawbacks. The foam insulation layer as a matter of fact is vapour inhibiting, so that between the facade and the foam layer vapour bubbles may be produced the foam layer is relatively soft and consequently the facade is mechanically vulnerable.Furthermore, use is made in the prior art method of various materials strongly deviating as regards physical properties, while also the use of foam sheets sometimes entails the risk of fire through released vapours, while the life seems limited in view of the employed materials. Moreover, repairs are complicated. It is the object of the invention to avoid these drawbacks. To this effect according to the invention, in a method as described in the above, an anchoring is secured to the wall which is embedded, through direct spraying of mortar against the wall, in a concrete layer forming the insulating layer. It will be clear that a substantial gain of time is achieved with the method according to the invention as compared with the prior art technique, so that by this mere fact the method of the invention is already less expensive. The simple anchoring for such a concrete layer, which itself has already some adhesion, even on uncleaned facade surfaces, can be simply formed according to the invention by a number of anchors applied in the facade wall with a free end projecting from the wall, said free end being embedded in the concrete layer. Such anchors have a given elasticity which limit the chance of crack formation upon relative movements of facade wall and insulating concrete layer. For increasing the adhesion between the insulating concrete layer and the anchors, according to the inventicn, the free ends of the anchors can be interconnected by threads which are likewise embedded in the insulating concrete layer. The invention also concerns an insulated wall provided with a concrete layer directly applied thereon, with an anchoring embedded therein and attached to the wall, and a top layer disposed on the insulating concrete layer. The use of concrete instead of foam plastic for forming an insulating layer has the advantage that concrete is vapour transmissive by nature, so respiratory, so that the formation of vapour bubbles between facade and insulating layer is prevented. Moreover, concrete is a material that as regards mechanical properties, such as coefficient of expansion, is much closer to the normal facade material, brickwork or likewise concrete, so that mutual dilatation differences are minimized. Concrete, moreover, is mechanically more resistant than foam plastic, so that the chance of damage to a wall insulated in accordance with the invention is less than the insulated facade walls manufactured according to the prior art techniques. Since concrete can be sprayed, the facade need not be smoothed and as already mentioned in the foregoing, an elaborate previous facade cleaning is not necessary.Everything considered, the facade insulation manufactured in Åaccordance with the invention is not only less expensive than the prior art insulated faCades, in that the application can be effected quicker and with less skilled personnel, but moreover the properties, both the mechanical properties and the insulating properties, are better than those of faCade insulations made in a known manner. One embodiment of the faCade insulation according to the invention will now be described, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawing. As shown on the drawing, depicting a detail of a facade insulated according to the invention, there is sprayed directly against the facade wall 1, e.g. a onebrick masonry wall, a concrete layer 2, while previously a plurality of anchors 3 has been attached in the wall 1, projecting with their free ends from the wall 1. The free anchor ends are interconnected by an anchoring thread 4 e.g. a glass fibre or nylon fibre. The ends of the anchors 3 projecting from the wall 1 and the anchoring threads stretched therebetween are entirely embedded in the sprayed concrete layer 2. Finally, a top or finishing layer 6 can be applied directly on the concrete layer 2.