# Folding seats, benches and tables.

## Abstract
A folding seat table arrangement has transverse seat members 10,12 and transverse backrest table top members 14,16 carried on transversely spaced folding frames 18 . In those frames, backrest supports 34 are pivotable relative to seat member carriers 30 between first and second stable end positions, by virtue of connecting links 38 which connect said supports 34 to rear seat legs 24 . In one position as shown the backrest transverse members 14,16 are supported as an upright backrest for seated persons. In the other position, the backrest transverse members 14,16 are supported by props 48 from rearwardly inclined backrest supports 34 , in a horizontal table top posture.

## Claims
1. A seat of the folding or collapsible kind in which a transverse seat member is carried on a folding framework, wherein said framework comprises at least two similar, transversely spaced folding frames, each such frame comprising

## Description
This invention relates to seats, benches, tables and similar articles, all of the folding or collapsible kind, that is, the kind in which the article may be folded or collapsed from an operative or functional condition to a storage condition for facilitating storage and or transport of such articles. Such articles comprise a transverse seat or table member carried on a folding or collapsible framework. Such folding articles are commonly, though not exclusively, purchased for use out of doors, for example, in the garden, or in the countryside for picnic purposes. Ease of converting such articles from one said condition to the other is important to the user but in addition such articles should desirably occupy a very small space when stored away. Morever, such folding articles are single purpose articles, being constructed so as to serve but a single function, e.g. that of a seat, or a chair or table. Hence, such articles serving different functions are purchased for use in association with one another. This requires greater storage space to be available for storing all such single purpose articles when not in use. The present invention seeks to provide a multi purpose folding article that can serve alternatively as a seat, or as a combined seat and table, is simple to erect for either purpose, occupies a very small storage space when collapsed, and is easily handled when in the collapsed condition. According to the present invention, there is provided a seat of the folding or collapsible kind in which a transverse seat member is carried on a folding framework, which framework comprises at least two similar folding frames, each of which frames comprises Other features of the present invention will appear from the description that follows hereafter, and from the claims that are appended at the end of that description. One bench seat according to the present invention will now be described by way of example, and with reference to the accompanying daigrammatic drawings, in which Figures 1 to 3 show diagrammatic end elevations of the seat when arranged in three different modes respectively. In Figure 1, the seat is shown in its normal functional role as a seat with an upright backrest. In Figure 2, the seat is shown transformed into a combined seat and table arrangement, the seat having no backrest. In Figure 3, the seat is shown collapsed into a storage condition with its front legs detached for separate storage. Figure 4 shows a diagrammatic end elevation of two seat table arrangements as shown in the Figure 2, arranged in a back to back manner and secured together to form a two seated picnic table arrangement. Figures 5A, 5B 6A, 6B and 7 show in greater detail a preferred, practical form of the seat table arrangement of the earlier Figures the Figures 5A and 6A being end elevations similar to those of the Figures 2 and 1 respectively, the Figures 5B and 6B being side elevations showing only one end portion of the arrangement, the other end portion being similar but reversed relative to that shown in the Figures 5B and 6B, and the Figure 7 showing pictorially an exploded view of the various constituent parts that make up the framework. Referring now to the Figure 1, the bench seat there shown comprises two solid timber, transverse seat members 10,12 and two solid timber, transverse backrest members 14,16 carried on a framework that comprises two similar, transversely spaced, metal, folding frames 18, of which only one is visible in the Figure. Each such frame 18 comprises The two seat members 10,12 are secured by screws not shown on the upper surfaces of the respective seat member carriers 30 of the two folding frames, and the two backrest members 14,16 are likewise secured by screws not shown to the respective backrest carriers 44 of the two frames in the manner shown. The bottom ends 40 of the respective backrest supports 34 carry resilient buffers 54 which have their lower faces shaped to engage closely around the cylindrical external surfaces of the respective rear legs 24. The ground engaging parts 26,28 of the legs carry resilient foot pads. The front and rear legs 22,24 and the backrest supports are of cylindrical, tubular construction. In the configuration shown in the Figure 1, with the connecting links 38 pivoted to their left hand stable end positions, the arrangement is in a stable condition for use as a seat or bench, for example, in the home or in the garden. The seat members 10,12 are inclined slightly downward in a rearward direction, and the backrest members 14,16 are inclined to the ground at an angle of approximately 85 . The seat can be readily transformed into the seat table arrangement that is shown in the Figure 2, by first lifting upwardly and simultaneously moving rearwardly the backrest members 14,16 and backrest supports 34, so as to rotate the connecting links 38 in a clockwise direction to the first, stable end position, in which position the backrest support buffers 54 rest on the rear legs 24 at a position above the pivotal connections of the connecting links with the rear legs. The backrest members 14,16 and their carriers 44 are then pivotally raised away from the backrest supports 34, thus allowing the respective props 48 to fall under gravity to their lower end positions, as determined by the shapes of the triangular slots 50 in the carriers 44, and so support the backrest carriers 44 and members 14,16, when those parts are subsequently lowered to the backrest supports 34. This new condition is depicted in the Figure 2, from which it can be seen that the backrest members 14,16 now lie in a horizontal disposition and so serve as table top members. To collapse the seat table arrangement of Figure 2 for storage, that arrangement must first be collapsed to the bench seat configuration of Figure 1, by reversing the procedure just described. That is, by taking the weight of the backrest members 14, 16 and associated carriers 44 whilst the props are collapsed against the members 14,16 so as to allow the backrest carriers to lie once again on the inclined backrest supports 34. The latter are then pulled rearwardly and simultaneously rotated forwardly. When the arrangement is restored to the seat configuration of Figure 1, the connecting links 38 are removed from at least the lower ends 40 of the backrest supports 34, and the latter are then rotated in an anti clockwise direction and lowered on to the rear legs 24. The front legs 22 are then detached from the upper parts 32 of the leg members 20, by undoing bayonet type connecting parts at reference 56, whereupon the arrangement has the compact storage configuration illustrated in the Figure 3, the detached front legs being available for storage separately from the rest of the seat table arrangement. It will be appreciated that the collapsed configuration of the Figure 3 will require relatively little storage space, whether it be in a car, or in a domestic storage area. The juxtaposition of two similar seat table arrangements of the kind shown in the Figure 2, in a back to back manner, can readily provide an integral picnic table seat arrangement which can seat persons not only along both sides of the table top, but also on other, separate seats placed at the respective ends of the table top, there being available ample leg room to accommodate persons sitting at the table ends. Desirably, the two seat table arrangements are secured together by wooden plates 58 secured by means of thumbscrews 60 under the table top members 14,16. Such plates may be provided with apertures 62 for receiving the shaft of a garden umbrella. Such a plate may also be fixed in position adjacent the middle of the table top to improve the rigidity of the table and provide a centrally positioned aperture for an umbrella shaft. Whereas in the arrangement so far described, two separate folding frames have been provided, in one preferred, practical arrangement those frames are united at ground level by an integral longitudinal member 64 which joins the lower ends of the rear legs 24. The details of such a preferred arrangement are shown in a self explanatory manner in the various Figures 5A, 5B, 6A, 6B and 7. In that preferred arrangement the connecting links 38 are constituted by a U shaped link 66 which cooperates with a flat plate link 68. The free ends of the link 66 are received in apertures provided in the plate link 68, and a knurled nut 70 is arranged for screwing on one of the free ends of the link 66. The front legs may in other arrangements be united by a transverse member, as in the case of the rear legs just referred to above, but in that case the bayonet type connecting parts of the front legs are replaced by other forms of connecting parts. The connecting links 38, 66 to 70, may be used as a securing means for securing the folding frames in the collapsed condition of Figure 3. In that Figure the connecting links are indicated at reference 70. When the folding frames are joined by a transverse member such as 64 Figure 7 , that member can provide a useful means of carrying the collapsed arrangement of Figure 3, where the position of that member 64 is indicated by that reference numeral. Seats of much greater transverse length may use more than two folding frames 18. For example, three separate, transversely spaced frames may be used or two separate sets of framework as shown in the Figures 5 to 7 may be spaced transversely along the seat members 10,12.