# Phospholipid conjugates and their preparation.

## Abstract
Phospholipid conjugate compounds derived from cardiac glycosides and steroids, are useful in liposome immunoassays. The conjugate compounds are of formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A phospholipid conjugate compound of the formula EMI16.1 wherein R is derived from an organic compound containing 1,2 dihydroxy groups which groups are subject to oxidative cleavage X and X are the side chain moieties connecting the R moiety to the carbon atoms resulting from oxidative cleavage of the 1,2 dihydroxy groups and P and P are phospholipid ethanolamine moieties. 2. A compound according to claim 1, wherein R is derived from digoxin, digitoxin or gitoxin, X isEMI16.2 3. A compound according to claim 2, wherein P in Formula I, or P and P in Formula II, are derived from dipalmitoyl phosphatidyl ethanolamine DPPE . 4. A compound according to claim 2, wherein P inFormula I, or P and P in Formula II are derived from dimyristyl phosphatidyl ethanolamine. 5. A compound according to claim 1, wherein R is derived from ouabain, X isEMI17.1 and X isEMI17.2 or nothing, and mixtures of two or more such compounds. 6. A compound according to claim 5, wherein P inFormula I, or P and P in Formula II are derived from dipalmitoyl phosphatidyl ethanolamine DPPE . 7. A phospholipid conjugate compound having the formula EMI17.3 wherein R is derived from a steroid having at least one carbonyl group, said carbonyl group forming the illustrated oximino moiety N O , and P is a phospholipid ethanolamine moiety. 8. A compound according to claim 7, wherein P is derived from dipalmitoyl phosphatidyl ethanolamine DPPE . 9. A compound according to claim 8, wherein the steroid is testosterone, or 6 keto estradiol, or the steroid contains two or more carbonyl groups, at least one of which forms said oximino moiety to which said phospholipid ethanolamine moiety is attached. 10. A compound according to claim 7, wherein said steroid contains 1,2 dihydroxy groups, which groups are subject to oxidative cleavage, and said oximino moieties are connected to the carbon atoms resulting from oxidative cleavage and to said ethanolamine phospholipid moieties. 11. A method of preparing a compound according to claim 1 having Formula I or Formula II or a compound according to claim 10, which comprises the steps of oxidatively cleaving the 1,2 dihydroxy groups of the steroid, reacting the resulting 1,2 dialdehyde groups with carboxy methoxylamine to form the corresponding dioxime, and preparing the phospholipid conjugate by reacting phospholipid with said dioxime. 12. A method according to claim 11, wherein a mixture containing compounds of Formulae I and II is prepared. 13. A method according to claim 11, wherein there is prepared a phospholipid conjugate as claimed in claim 1 wherein R is derived from digoxin, R is H, and P is derived from dipalmitoyl phosphatidyl ethanolamine DPPE . 14. A method according to claim 11, wherein there is prepared a phospholipid conjugate wherein R is derived from digitoxin, gitoxin, ouabain or digitonin, R is H, and P, or P and P , are derived from dipalmitoyl phosphatidyl ethanolamine DPPE . 15. A liposomal immunoassay for the determination of appropriate dosage schedules of cardiac glycosides and steroids for human administration, which employs a phospholipid conjugate as claimed in claim 1 or claim 7.

## Description
PHOSPHOLIPID CONJUGATES AND THEIR PREPARATION This invention relates to certain novel immunoreactive phospholipid conjugates useful for homogeneous liposome immunoassays. Digoxin is a potent cardiac glycoside. Toxic amounts of digoxin exert undesirable and potentially lethal electrophysiological effects Hoffman et al, ThePharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, Gilman, 6th ed., p 729, N.Y. 1980 . Accordingly, various immunoassay methods for cardiac glycosides are now widely used clinically as aids in the determination of appropriate dosage schedules for patients receiving these drugs. Because digoxin is a very small hapten molecule, it is necessary to conjugate it covalently to an antigenic carrier, for example, human serum albumin HSA , bovine serum albumin BSA or keyhole limpet hemocyanin KLH , in order to elicit digoxin specific antibodies in experimental animals for use in immunoassay. The preparation of immunoreactive digoxin derivatives is typically carried out by the procedure of Butler et al Proc. Natl. Acad.Sci., U.S.A., 1967, 57, 71 78 and Methods in Enzymology, AcademicPress, 84, 558 577 1982 which is based on the work of Erlanger and Beiser, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci., 52, 68 1964 . The reaction sequence involves periodate cleavage of the terminal sugar ring digitoxose or rhamnose followed by reaction with a protein carrier, enzyme or related biological molecule, and finally reductive amination with sodium borohydride. Thus, digoxin HSA Butler et al supra , digoxin BSA Smith et al,Biochemistry, 9, 331 337 1970 , mellitin ouabain Freytag et al, J. of Immunological Methods, 70, 133 140 1984 , and digoxin dibenzo 18 crown 6 Keating et al,Anal. Chem.,56, 801 806 1984 , conjugates have been prepared using the aforementioned reaction sequence. U.S. patent specification no. 4,115,539 discloses a method of preparing digoxin conjugates using isocyanates, based upon tyrosine methyl ester. U.S. patent specifications nos. 4,297,273 and 4,363,759 disclose ways to prepare chemiluminescent phthalaldehyde labelled digoxigenin.U.S. patent specification no. 4,342,826 employs the procedure of Butler et al supra to prepare a non characterized digoxin phosphatidylethanolamine conjugate but, when we tried this preparation, a very complex mixture was formed. We have now discovered certain new digoxin and digoxin related phospholipid conjugates and other conjugates, which are useful for sensitive liposome immunoassays. In accordance with one aspect of this invention, there is provided a phospholipid conjugate compound of the formula EMI2.1 wherein R is derived from an organic compound containing 1,2 dihydroxy groups which groups are subject to oxidative cleavage X and X are the side chain moieties connecting the R moiety to the carbon atoms resulting from oxidative cleavage of the 1,2 dihydroxy groups and P and P1 are phospholipid ethanolamine moieties. Preferably, R is derived from a cardiac glycoside such as digoxin, digitoxin, gitoxin, ouabain, digitonin and the like. For compounds of Formula I, R is H and P is a phospholipid moiety, preferably the phospholipid derived from dipalmitoyl phosphatidyl ethanolamine DPPE .For compounds of Formula II, P and P are phospholipid moieties, preferably also derived from DPPE. Other suitable phospholipid moieties may be used as desired to introduce modified properties of the liposome. These include the natural phosphatidyl ethanolamines, dimyristyl phosphatidyl ethanoloamine, phosphatidyl serine, etc. In another embodiment of this invention, compounds are included having the formulaEMI3.1 wherein R is derived from a steroid having at least one carbonyl group, said carbonyl group forming the illustrated oximino moiety N O , and P is a phospholipid ethanolamine moiety. Preferably, P is derived from DPPE. Illustrative steroids include testosterone and 6 keto estradiol. Thus, the steroid contains one or more carbonyl groups, at least one of which forms the oximino moiety to which said phospholipid moiety is attached. The steroid may contain 1,2 dihydroxy groups, which groups are subject to oxidative cleavage, and the oximino moieties may be connected to the carbon atoms resulting from oxidative cleavage and to the ethanolamine phospholipid moieties. In general, the novel phospholipid conjugates of this invention are derived from compounds having functional groups which can be modified and or converted to form oxime derivatives. The invention also includes a liposomal immunoassay, such as that disclosed in U.S. patent specifications nos. 4,342,826 or 4,235,792, to which reference should be made for further details, wherein there is used a phospholipid conjugate of the invention. The invention further includes a method of preparing a phospholipid conjugate of the invention, which method comprises the steps of oxidatively cleaving the 1,2 dihydroxy groups of the steroid, reacting the resulting 1,2 dialdehyde groups with carboxy methoxylamine to form the corresponding dioxime, and preparing the phospholipid conjugate by reacting phospholipid with said dioxime. An example of this method is shown, using digoxin by way of illustration, in Scheme A provided hereinafter. Scheme A Synthesis Of DiRoxin DPPE ConjugatesEMI4.1 tb SEP LF SEP Digoxin tb SEP t SEP S SEP SEP tb SEP Di SEP goxi SEP n Mono SEP DPP SEP E tb F ooc SEP c SEP d SEP SEP Digoxin Di DPPE tb SEP tb HOoOfkC, SEP 074 SEP t SEP Two SEP minor SEP products tb a sodium periodate b NH2OCH2COOH 2.HCl NaOAc EtOH c N hydroxysuccinimide NHS dicyclohexyl carbodiimide DCC active ester d dipalmitoyl phosphatidyl ethanolamine CHC13 Et3N In step c EMI5.1 N hydroxysuccinimide ester of digoxin di o carboxymcthyl oxime active ester .In step d , di DPPE and mono DPPE conjugates are formed as follows EMI6.1 tb SEP w tb Q SEP n tb g SEP i tb z tb ge tb w tb SEP v tb SEP 1 tb SEP 0 tb SEP 0 tb SEP v tb SEP u tb wherein the mono compound has the formula EMI6.2 DPPE has the formula EMI6.3 and the di compound has the formla EMI7.1 In the above reaction sequence, the terminal digitoxose in digoxin is cleaved to give dialdehyde in quantitative yield by using, for example, sodium periodate under a nitrogen atmosphere.Thin layer chromatography silica gel, Merck using a chloroform methanol 10 1 by volume solvent system shows one homogeneous spot at Rf 0.16 detected by spraying with methanol concentrated sulfuric acid 9 1 by volume and warming briefly to develop a dark brown color . The condensation reaction of digoxin dialdehyde and carboxy methoxyamine hemihydrochloride proceeds rapidly in sodium acetate ethanol under a nitrogen atmosphere.Quantitative yields of di 0 carboxymethyl oxime TLC Rf 0.04 0.12 solvent system chloroform methanol, 6 1 by volume were obtained. The digoxin dioxime derivative was used immediately in the next reaction step. The carboxy functionalities of the dioxime are reacted with N hydroxysuccinimide in the presence of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide to give an active ester. The dioxime active ester is then condensed with dipalmitoyl phosphatidyl ethanolamine DPPE with gentle heating for seventy two hours. The reaction is monitored closely by TLC. Thin layer chromatography with the solvent system chloroform methanol water 75 25 3 by volume showed two major components at Rf 0.20 and 0.13 along with N hydroxysuccinimide at Rf 0.30. The phospholipid moiety of the conjugates was detected by molybdate blue spray. The excess N hydroxysuccinimide was removed from the reaction mixture by preparative liquid chromatography Kieselgel, 200g, glass column 2.5 x 50 cm , solvent system chloroform methanol water 2 8 1 by volume . Pure digoxin di DPPE conjugate 0.1348 g, 20 Rf 0.30 and digoxin mono DPPE conjugate 0.1424 g, 26.5 Rf 0.15 were isolated from the crude reaction mixture by preparativeTLC in chloroforw methanol water 2 8 1 by volume . Two other minor products were also isolated. The structures of the minor products were not identified. The proof of the structure of the two major conjugates was made using the IR, W and high resolution proton NMR spectra, and fast atom bombardment FAB mass spectra. The advantages of the above described synthetic procedure reside in its ability and facility efficiently to provide a relatively stable, storable yet activatable, oxime intermediate. This intermediate overcomes the disadvantages inherent in the Butler et al procedure discussed earlier. These include the propensity for the dialdehyde intermediate to undergo deleterious sidereactions, particularly in the presence of amine derivatives of lesser reactivities such as phospholipids. An additional advantage is that the procedure of the present invention provides products which can be readily isolated, characterised and purified in contrast to Butler which, to our knowledge, yields a sufficiently complex mixture thwarting the desired product characterization. The synthetic method described herein is also applicable to the preparation of analogous phospholipid conjugates involving linkage through a sugar ring such as digitoxin, gitoxin, ouabain, digitonin and related cardiac glycosides, or those involving steroids which can be modified, to form oxime derivatives remote from key functionalities important for immunorecognition by specific antibodies. In order that the invention may be more fully understood, the following Examples are given by way of illustration only. EXAMPLE ISynthesis of Digoxin DPPE Conjugates A Digoxin Dialdehyde Digoxin 0.4985 g, 0.64 mmole is dissolved in 10 m of chloroform methanol 3 l.5 and placed into a 100 ml two necked flask. Sodium periodate 0.3102 g, 1.4 mmols is dissolved in 4 ml distilled water and placed into a pressure equalized addition funnel. The periodate solution is slowly added to the flask while stirring and under nitrogen. A white precipitate is immediately formed and the reaction is complete within 15 minutes after addition of the periodate. Reaction progress is monitored by TLC E.M. Mercy, pre coated TLC sheets, silica gel 60F254 0.2 mm thickness in chloroform methanol 10 1 by volume Rf 0.16 dialdehyde, one homogeneous spot Rf 0.07 digoxin .Both spots become dark brownish when the TLC plate is sprayed with methanol concentrated sulfuric acid 9 1 by volume and placed in 1000C oven .The reaction mixture is evaporated on a rotary evaporator and brought up in 30 ml of chloroform and 3 ml of water.The cloudy solution is extracted and the aqueous layer washed three times with 10 ml chloroform. The organic phases are combined 60 ml and dried over magnesium sulfate.The organic solvents are evaporated to dryness. A light yellow brownish oily material is left. This material is used immediately in the next stage. B Digoxin Di O carboxymethyl Oxime Carboxy methoxylamine hemihydrochloride 0.3119 g, 1.4 mmoles and sodium acetate 0.2260 g, 1.6 mmoles are dissolved in 3 ml water and placed into a 50 ml 2 necked flask. The digoxin dialdehyde, dissolved in 1.3 ml ethanol, is placed into a pressure equalized funnel and slowly added to the flask with stirring and under nitrogen. The reaction is complete within ten minutes TLC chloroform methanol 6 1 by volume, Rf 0.09 0.13 .The reaction mixture is evaporated to dryness and dissolved in 20 ml ethyl acetate and 3 ml water. The organic layer is separated and the aqueous layer is washed three times with 5.0 ml ethyl acetate. The organic layers are combined and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate.The solution is filtered and evaporated to dryness. The residue is dried for 30 minutes under high vacuum 0.1 mm Hg and used immediately for the next step. C Preparation of N Hydroxysuccinimide Ester of Digoxin Di O Carboxymethyl Oxime Dicyclohexylcarbodiimide DCC 0.2805 g, 1.3 mmoles is dissolved in 6 ml dry DMF dimethyl sulfoxide and placed into a 50 ml 2 necked flask. The solution is cooled in an ice water bath 40C . Digoxin di 0 carboxymethyl oxime, dissolved in 80 ml DMF, is slowly added to the flask with stirring and under nitrogen. Immediately afterwards,N hydroxysuccinimide solution 0.1500 g, 1.3 mmoles, in 6 ml DMF is likewise added. Reaction progress is monitored by TLC chloroform methanol water 75 25 3 by volume, Rf 1.0 DCC , 0.75 dioxime NHS active ester , 0.34 NHS , 0.1 dioxime . The reaction is continued at 40C under nitrogen for 18 hours. The desired product possesses the following charactistics in TLC 1 homogeneous W detectable spot short wavelength , 2 the homogeneous spot turns brownish when spraying the TLC plate with methanol concentrated sulfuric acid 9 1 by volume and warming the plate briefly in 1000C oven. The reaction mixture is filtered to remove dicyclohexyl urea and the crude reaction mixture is used for the next step. D Preparation of Digoxin DPPE Conjugates The crude dioxime active ester 17 ml reaction mixture is placed into 100 ml 2 necked flask. A suspension of DPPE 0.4431 g, 0.64 mmoles, dispersed in 30 ml dry chloroform and 0.7 ml of triethylamine is placed in an addition funnel and slowly added to the flask while stirring under nitrogen and being protected from light. The mixture is heated gently 40 500C for 72 hours. The reaction is monitored by TLC solvent system chloroform methanol water 75 25 3 by volume Rf 0.75 active ester , 0.52 unknown 1 , 0.45 unknown 2 , 0.30 NHS , 0.21 DPPE, 0.20 disubstituted conjugate , 0.13 monosubstituted conjugate . The reaction mixture is complex and the above are the major identified products. The phospholipid moiety of the conjugates was detected by molybdate blue spray. The reaction mixture was evaporated and brought up in 10 ml chloroform methanol water 2 8 1 . The N hydroxysuccinimide was removed from the mixture by LPLC Kiesegel 200 g, glass column 2.5 cm x 50 cm , solvent system chloroform methanol water 2 8 1 by volume . Pure mono and disubstituted conjugates can be obtained by preparative TLC in chloroform methanol water 2 8 1 by volume, Rf 0.30 disubstituted 0.15 monosubstituted . Pure digoxin di DPPE conjugate 0.1349 g 20 and digoxin mono DPPE conjugate 0.1424 g 26.5 were obtained. Two other minor products were also isolated. The structures of the minor products were not identified. E NMR, UV, IR and FAB Data The NMR, W and IR and fast atom barbardment FAB mass spectra data are summarized in Chart 1 and 2 provided hereinbelow CHART 1 Digoxin Mono DPPE NMR 300 MHz, CDCl3 0.8 singlet, 3H, 18CH3 , 096 singlet, 3H, 19 CH3 , 0.90 triplet,6H, termlnal methyl group in phospholipid 2.23 1.05 complex multiplet, 83H, 2 CH2 12, 3 CH3 digitoxose ring , 3 CH2 digitoxose ring , 8 CH2 digoxigenin ring , 2 CH2 CH2 12 2.32 two overlapping triplets, 48, 2 CH2CO 4.72 3.05 complex wuitiplet, 2ZH, CH 3CoR, 9 CH digitoxose ring proton , 6 CH digoxigenin ring proton , glycero CH2 O P protons, ethanolamine CH2 O P, OCH2 CO and CH2 NH 4.95 multiplet, 5H, CH in lactone and 3 protons at C1 , C1., and C1 ,, in digitoxose 5.25 multiplet, 1H, CH OCOR 5.95 singlet, 1H, lactone, C CH UV Cary 219, CHCl3 max. 241 nm 1744 , IR KBr, Perkin Elmer 1430 ratio reading. cm 3435 broad OH , 2923, 2852, 1743 ester , 1668, 1622. CHART 2 Digoxin Di DPPE NMR 300MHz,CDCl3 0.82 singlet, 38, 18CH3 , 0.94 singlet, 3H, 19 CH3 , 0.90 triplet, 128, terminal methyl group in phospholipid 2.32 multiplet, 88, 4 CH2 CO 2.2 1.05 complex multiplet 4.75 2.8 complex multiplet 4.9 multiplet, 58, CH2 in lactone and 3 protons at C1, C1.,and C11 in digitoxose 5.25 multiplet, 28, 2 CH 0C0R 5.95 singlet,1H, Lactone C CH UV Cary 219, CHCl3 max. 241 nm 2071 IR K8r, Perkin Elmer 1430 ratio reading, cm 3427 broad OH 2923, 2853,1781,1743,1668. As a further confirmation of the structure, positive ion fast atom bombardment FAB mass spectra m Z from purified conjugates in a thioglycerol matrix were obtained using the MS 50 high resolution mass spectrometer. The most intense peak appeared in the molecular ion region, representing m Z of M metal and the isotopically enriched species. The molecular ion for digoxin mono DPPE is 1621 M Na and the molecular ion for digoxin di DPPE is 2311 M K . F Liposomal Immunoassay Both conjugates may be used in the liposomal immunoassay methods described in U.S. patent specifications nos. 4,342,826 e.g. Example X and 4,235,792 with acceptable results. EXAMPLE II The procedure of Example I is repeated using, in place of the digoxin, approximately stoichiometric equivalent amounts of the following compounds digitoxin gitoxin ouabain digitoninComparable results were obtained. EXAMPLE III The procedure of Example I is repeated using, in place of dipalmitoyl phosphatidyl ethanolamine, an approximately stoichiometric equivalent amount of dimyristyl phosphatidyl ethanolamine. Corresponding products were obtained. EXAMPLE IV The procedure of Example I steps B , C and D is repeated except that testosterone is used in an approximately stoichiometric amount, in place of digoxin dialdehyde. The corresponding conjugated phospholipid products were obtained. It will be seen that this invention provides a rapid and efficient approach to digoxin and digoxin related phospholipid conjugates which are useful for liposome immunoassay. A synthetic procedure is provided which involves the linking of a terminal sugar group, e.g. digitoxose of digoxin, to a phospholipid through a carboxymethyl oxime functionality. Such procedure provides much improved yields of readily purified products compared to known procedures. Moreover, it is applicable to related phospholipid conjugates where linkage through a sugar ring is highly preferred, i.e. digitoxin, gitoxin, ouabain, digitonin and other related cardiac glycosides. In addition to these cardiac glycosides, other glycosides including those from the saponin class, but not limited to that class, are within the purview of this invention. Still further, the method of this invention is also applicable to phospholipid conjugates derived from steroids such as estrogens and testosterones which can be modified to form oxime derivatives remote from key functionalities important for immunorecognition by specific antibodies.