# COMPOSITION AND PROCESS FOR CONDITIONING THE SURFACE OF PLASTIC SUBSTRATES PRIOR TO METAL PLATING

## Claims
Basische Zusammensetzung zum Verbessern der Haftung von Kunststoffsubstraten an Metallüberzügen, die folgendes aufweist

## Description
The invention relates to the metal plating of plastics and, in particular, to enhancing the adhesion of metal plating to the plastic substrate of electronic circuit boards by conditioning the board prior to etching and electroless metal plating of the board by making use of an alkaline composition comprising a first compound a and a second compound b . The metal plating of plastic parts is well known to be of considerable commercial importance because the desirable characteristics of both the plastic and the metal are combined to offer the technical and aesthetic advantages of each. Thus, a part plated with a bright, metallic finish takes advantage of the economies in cost and weight afforded by substituting molded plastic parts for metal and, additionally, the plated finishes are not as susceptible to pitting and corrosion because there is no galvanic reaction between a plastic substrate and a plated metal. An important process is the preparation of electronic circuit boards which requires the electroless plating of a conductive metal layer, usually copper, onto the plastic substrate of the board, such as epoxy, and for convenience the following description will relate specifically to this process. These boards vary in design and may have a copper layer on each surface face of the epoxy two sided boards or they can be multi layer boards which have a plurality of inter leaved parallel planar copper and epoxy layers. In both type boards through holes are drilled in the board and metal plated to facilitate connection between the circuits on the copper layers. The through holes present an additional plating problem because resin smear on the exposed copper caused by the drilling operation acts as an insulator between the metal of the through hole and copper layer and must be removed prior to plating. The smear is usually removed using acid and this process degrades the physical integrity of the hole making it difficult to metallize and provides little or no adhesive support for the metallic deposit. The problems in plating either the through holes or other plastic parts of the board are well known in the art and a number of methods have been developed to improve the adhesion of the metal plating to the epoxy. These methods generally employ oxidants to etch the surface of the plastic prior to plating and include chromic acid, sulfuric acid and acidic and alkaline permanganate solutions. The toxicity of the chromium compounds and their potential hazards as water pollutants and the safety precautions needed with sulfuric acid have increased the commercial use of permanganate solutions, particularly alkaline permanganate solutions, and a number of patents have been granted in this area. U.S. Patent No. 3,652,351 shows the etching of acrylonitrile butadiene styrene interpolymers ABS plastics using a composition containing manganate and hydroxyl ions. U.S. Patent Nos. 4,042,729 and 4,054,693 disclose stable, highly active etching solutions containing controlled ratios of manganate ions and permanganate ions and a pH in the range of 11 to 13. U.S. Patent No. 4,425,380 is specifically directed to cleaning through holes of residual manganese prior to plating by contacting the etched plastic with a water soluble compound oxidizable by permanganate to reduce the manganese residues to a low oxidation state, e.g., SnCl₂ HCl, formaldehyde, followed by contacting with hot alkaline hydroxide. The disclosures of the above patents are hereby incorporated by reference. Also, US A 3,898,136 regards the metal plating of plastics and it describes and claims a process for treating the surface of an article with a compound having the formula RO AO Furthermore, US A 3,898,136 does not teach towards such a combination and in this respect, it is noted that, of the many compounds mentioned, only propylene glycol monomethyl ether and propylene glycol dimethyl ether fall within the general formula for compound a while diethylene glycol methyl ether is the only specified example of a compound of type b . The possible combinations of the many compositions listed therein are of enormous magnitude, and there is nothing in the document which would lead the skilled reader to choose a combination of compound of type a and type b as set forth in the invention. Furthermore, there is no suggestion that the compounds employed for the treating should be used in the form of an alkaline composition. Publication Circuit Manufacturing issued March 1983, Peter E. Kukanskis Improved Smear Removal is generally dealing with the treatment of circuit boards but it does not suggest the particular combination of compounds a and b of the application in a solution having a pH greater than 10. Moreover, alkaline aqueous solvent blends are not specifically mentioned and certainly the particular combination of compounds a and b in an alkaline solution of the invention is not suggested thereby. The present invention relates to treating the plastic surface before plating an particularly before etching to further enhance the adhesive effect of the etching procedure. This procedure is generally known as a solvent etch technique and employs solvents which swell the plastic. U.S. Patent No. 3,758,332 discloses the use of chemicals such as methyl ethyl ketone, tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, pyridine, dimethylformamide, and an alcohol mixture comprising methyl ethyl ketone, ethanol and methanol as swellants for epoxy resin. U.S. Patent No. 4,086,128 also shows pretreatment of an epoxy resin with an organic solvent comprising alcohols, acids, esters, ketones, nitriles, nitro compounds, and polyhydric compounds such as ethylene glycol, glycerine and 1, 2 propylene glycol prior to etching with hydrogen peroxide and sulfuric acid. U.S. Patent No. 3,865,623 shows immersion of epoxy resin in an organic solvent such as dimethylformamide to render the epoxy receptive to an acid etch. The disclosures of the above publications are hereby incorporated by reference. It has now been discovered that the adhesiveness of metal plating and, in particular, electroless metal plating, to plastic substrates can be enhanced by first contacting the plastic substrate for an effective time with an alkaline composition comprising The pH of the composition is highly alkaline, preferably greater than 13, e.g., 14. It is preferred to employ a source of hydroxyl ions such as an alkali metal hydroxide and may be present in an amount of about 5 g l to 200 g l or more. Compound a is preferably propylene glycol monomethyl ether and compound b dimethoxy tetra ethylene glycol, with compounds a and b each being present in the solution in an amount of about 40 g l to 120 g l. The composition is employed at an elevated temperature and is, in general, about 90 F 32 C to the lesser of the boiling point of the solution and the softening point of the plastic. For epoxy boards the temperature is preferably about l40 to l50 F 60 to 66 C . Temperatures given in degrees Celsius are approximate, i.e., the nearest whole degree Celsius to the corresponding temperature in degrees Fahrenheit, and are provided solely as a convenience to the reader. The effective contact time will vary with the concentration and temperature of the solution and the plastic substrate being treated and in general will not exceed about 30 minutes, preferably less than l0 minutes, e.g., 5 minutes. For epoxy boards which are to be etched with alkaline permanganate solutions a contact time of about 2 to l0 minutes at a temperature of about l40 l50 F 60 66 C has been found to provide excellent results. The invention further provides a method for treating a plastic substrate and an epoxy circuit board according to claims 6 and 15. In general, the process of using the compositions of the invention in manufacturing printed circuit boards and, in particular, boards containing through holes is a sequence of steps commencing with a commercially available laminate or multi laminate made from, e.g., paper epoxy or glass epoxy material. A pre designed series of through holes is formed in the board in any conventional manner, then preferably etched with an acid to remove any epoxy smear over the exposed metal laminate surface and to etch back the epoxy layer, and water rinsed. This is followed by contacting the board with the composition of the invention to enhance the effect of the subsequent oxidative etching step. After water rinsing, the board is etched with an oxidant such as alkaline permanganate and water rinsed. Neutralization with a reductant to solubilize manganese residues by lowering their oxidation state is then performed and the board rinsed providing a board having all the copper layers in the through holes exposed and the epoxy etched ready for electroless metal plating using conventional procedures. A preferred step is to now dissolve some of the glass fibers in the epoxy using, for example, acid flourides, and to pretreat the board by cleaning with a composition such as ENPLATE PC 475 to remove hydrocarbon soils and oxide and micro etching of the copper using an etchant such as ENPLATE AD 485. Thereafter the board is immersed in a catalyst, such as a tin palladium solution, which conditions the surfaces of the epoxy for electroless copper plating. ENPLATE Activator 444 sold by Enthone, Incorporated is exemplary of this type catalyst. Following a water rinse, the laminate is immersed in an accelerator such as ENPLATE PA 49l to activate the catalyst by freeing the metal palladium ions on the board. After a water rinse, the board is dried and is immersed in an electroless copper plating solution for a period of time sufficient to plate copper to the desired thickness on the surfaces and to plate the surfaces of the holes to form through hole connections between the laminate surfaces. ENPLATE CU 700 and other similar plating compositions may be employed. The boards may then be electroplated using conventional techniques if a thicker coating is desired. The compositions of the invention have been found to be particularly useful for conditioning epoxy resins although other suitable polymeric resins may also be conditioned. The electronic circuit boards are commercially available and are of known structure and composition and include paper epoxy and glass epoxy laminates. In general, an epoxy resin means a polymeric compound containing at least two epoxy groups in one molecule and synthetic resins formed by ring opening reactions of the epoxy groups of the compounds. An epoxy resin extensively used in the printed circuit industry is a cured epoxy resulting from a condensation product of epichlorohydrin and bisphenol A. A board commercially known and available under designation FR 4 which is a fire retardant epoxy resin fiber glass cloth laminate, has demonstrated to be effectively conditioned by the process of the invention. The epoxy resin may contain glass fibers, paper, synthetic fibers, carbon black, alumina powders, silica powders, wax, etc., as fillers, pigments, mold release agents, reinforcing agents, etc., or can be used together with phenol resins, urea resins, melamine resins, and the like. The alkaline pH of the composition may be provided by any suitable source and is preferably an alkaline hydroxide such as lithium, sodium, potassium, cesium, and tetraalkyl ammonium. Sodium hydroxide is preferred. The amount of hydroxyl ions can vary widely and is more preferably about 40 to 120 g l and most preferably about 60 to 100 g l. The compound represented by the formula is preferably propylene glycol monomethyl ether. Other compounds include propylent glycol monoethyl ether and propylene glycol monopropyl ether. A mixture of compounds wherein R₁ is hydrogen and m is 1 and R₂ is methyl, ethyl and propyl has provided satisfactory results. The compound is preferably present in the solution in an amount about 40 to 120 g l, most preferably about 60 to 100 g l. The compound represented by the formula It will be apprecited by those familiar with the art that the components of the composition may vary widely, depending upon, for example, solubility considerations, with the understanding that the important criteria is the combination of compounds a and b in an alkaline solution. Other additives, such as surfactants, may be used in the composition for special purposes as is known in the art. The composition media is preferably aqueous and substantially inert with respect to the plastic being treated. Other media may also be employed such as alcohols with water being preferred for economic reasons and for its demonstrated effectiveness. To practice the method of the invention the plastic substrate is contacted with the composition at an elevated temperature for a time sufficient to render the surface receptive to the permanganate etching process. Contacting procedures may vary widely and satisfactory results for epoxy resin are provided by immersing the part in the solvent for between approximately 2 to l0 minutes at l40 to l50 F 60 to 66 C . The time and temperature will vary depending on the substrate being treated and the composition of the solution as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art. Other means such as spraying, may be used for treating the plastic part. The treated plastic part is then ready for oxidative etching, preferably with a hot alkaline permanganate solution as described in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,042,729 4,054,693 and 4,425,380, and basically comprises contacting the treated plastic part with the permanganate solution at an elevated temperature for a sufficient time to promote adhesion to the surface. It is preferred to then rinse the etched plastic part to remove excess solution and to remove the manganese residues by neutralization or chemical reduction using reductants such as hydrazine and oxalic acid. The etched plastic part is now prepared for metal plating by known means such as sensitizing using an aqueous tin chloride solution and then activating by means of palladium chloride. The surface may now be plated with a film of metal by electroless plating. Sensitizing, activating and plating compositions and methods for copper metal electroless deposition are described in U.S. Patent Nos. 2,874,072 3,075,855 3,095,309 and 3,736,l56 the disclosures of said patents being hereby incorporated reference. Other methods of deposition may also be used such as vacuum vapor deposition, electrolytic plating or a combination of electroless plating and electrolytic plating. The present invention will now be described in detail by reference to the following examples. The following example illustrates the use of the composition to enhance the adhesiveness of electroless plated copper to epoxy resin which was cleaned with sulfuric acid. A two sided copper clad epoxy glass FR 4 laminate board was metallized using the following procedure The metallized layer is tested for adhesion by firmly attaching a strip of adhesive tape to the metallized surface and then removing the tape with a quick snapping motion. There was no noticeable transfer of the metallized deposit to the adhesive backing of the tape. The procedure of EXAMPLE I was comparatively repeated except that step e the conditioning step of the invention was omitted. The metallized deposit was blistered and was poorly adherent with a significant transfer of the deposit to the adhesive backing of the tape. The procedure of EXAMPLE I was comparatively repeated except that the dimethoxy tetraethylene glycol component was omitted from the composition used in step e . The metallized deposit was poorly adherent with a significant transfer of the deposit being removed by the tape. The procedure of EXAMPLE I was repeated on a drilled multi layer epoxy glass FR 4 laminate board. A standard copper micro etch step using ENPLATE AD 485 was added between steps l and m and steps a and b were omitted. After metallization the board was electroplated in a standard acid copper plating solution to a deposit thickness of about l mil. The board was then rinsed with water, dried and coated with an activated rosin flux. The prepared board was then floated on molten tin lead 60 40 solder at 550 F 288 C for l0 seconds. After cooling the solder filled holes were cross sectioned using standard metallurgical techniques. Microscopic examination of the copper to epoxy interface revealed no separation and the presence of a fine dendritic structure. The procedure of EXAMPLE II was repeated with the omission of the concentrated sulfuric acid step c . Microscopic examination of the copper plating to inner layer copper foil revealed a mechanically sound connection free of smeared resin. The procedure of EXAMPLE II was repeated substituting a 900 g l solution of chromic acid at l50 F 66 C for 2 minutes for the concentrated sulfuric acid step c . Tightly adherent plating to the epoxy hole wall surface was obtained. The procedure of EXAMPLE III was repeated substituting a sample of a drilled multilayer laminate that had been exposed to a plasma desmearing process. Tightly adherent plating to the epoxy hole wall surface was obtained.