# SUBSTITUTED ISOQUINOLINESULFONYL COMPOUNDS

## Claims
Isochinolinsulfonylverbindung der Formel I

## Description
This invention relates to substituted isoquinolinesulfonyl compounds. More particularly, this invention is concerned with isoquinolinesulfonyl compounds which are a novel compound that affects the smooth muscle of a mammal, thereby being a valuable drug such as vasodilator, cerebral circulation ameliorator, antihypertensive agent and drugs for prevention and treatment of angina, cerebrovascular thrombosis, hypertonia, arteriosclerosis, cerebral apoplexy and other circulatory organ diseases. According to EP A 0 109 023 1 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl homopiperazine can be prepared, but pharmaceutical effects are not mentioned. Known in the art are further compounds which are useful to treat circulatory organ diseases and which are represented by the following formulae disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,525,589 disclosed in the above mentioned patent disclosed in the above mentioned patent disclosed in the above mentioned patent disclosed in Japanese Patent Application In the above formulae, R⁵ represents an alkyl group, an aryl group, an aralkyl group, a benzoyl group, a cinnamyl group, a furoyl group or a group of the formula in which R represents a lower alkyl group. R⁶ and R⁷ each independently represent a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group, or R⁶ and R⁷ are bonded with each other directly or through the medium of an oxygen atom or a nitrogen atom to form a heterocyclic ring in cooperation with the with adjacent nitrogen atom. R⁸ represents a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group having 1 to 10 carbon atoms. R⁹ represents a group selected from alkyl, aryl and aralkyl groups each having 1 to 10 carbon atoms. R¹⁰ represents a hydrogen atom or a group selected from alkyl and aryl groups having 1 to 10 carbon atoms. R¹¹ and R¹² each independently represent a hydrogen atom or a group selected from alkyl, aryl and aralkyl groups each having 1 to 10 carbon atoms, or R¹¹ and R¹² are bonded with each other directly or through the medium of an oxygen atom to form a heterocyclic ring in cooperation with the adjacent nitrogen atom. Symbols u and v each independently represent an integer of 0 to 9. B represents an alkylene group having n carbon atoms substituted with m groups selected from alkyl, aryl and aralkyl groups having 1 to 10 carbon atoms, in which n is a positive integer not greater than 10 and m is an integer of 0 to 2 x n. However, there is still a strong demand in the art for a more effective drug which can be advantageously utilized as vasodilator, cerebral circulation ameliorator, antihypertensive agent and drugs for prevention and treatment of angina, cerebrovascular thrombosis, hypertonia, arteriosclerosis, cerebral apoplexy and other circulatory organ diseases. This is especially so in the current aging society in which the number of aged people is increasing. We have made extensive and intensive studies on various compounds, especially isoquinolinesulfonyl moiety containing compounds, and their activities against such diseases. As a result, it has unexpectedly been found that novel, specifically substituted isoquinolinesulfonyl compounds are capable of increasing the diameter of a blood vessel and hence are useful to prevent and treat the above mentioned diseases. Moreover, it has unexpectedly been found that they are useful to prevent and treat the delayed cerebral vasospasm occurring after the subarachnoid hemorrhage in humans. As far as the inventors knowledge extends, there has not been any drug which can prevent or treat the delayed cerebral vasospasm occurring after the subarachnoid hemorrhage in humans. Based on these novel findings, we have completed this invention. It is, therefore, an object of the present invention to provide a novel species of substituted isoquinolinesulfonyl compounds which are capable of increasing the diameter of a blood vessel and hence can be advantageously utilized as vasodilator, cerebral circulation ameliorator, antihypertensive agent and drugs for prevention and treatment of angina, cerebrovascular thrombosis, hypertonia, arteriosclerosis, cerebral apoplexy, the delayed cerebral vasospasm occurring after the subarachnoid hemorrhage in human, and other circulatory organ diseases. The foregoing and other objects, features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description and appended claims. According to the present invention, there is provided an isoquinolinesulfonyl compound represented by the formula I or an acid salt thereof, wherein R¹ represents a hydrogen atom, a chlorine atom or a hydroxyl group and A represents an ethylene group unsubstituted or substituted with an alkyl group having 1 to 6 carbon atoms, a phenyl group or a benzyl group, With respect to the above mentioned alkyl groups, they may be a straight chain group or a branched chain group. Examples of the isoquinolinesulfonyl compound represented by the formula I according to the present invention are as follows According to the present invention, there is further provided an acid salt of isoquinoline derivatives. The salt is an untoxic salt which is pharmacologically accepted. As examples, of the acid there may be mentioned such inorganic acids as hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, phosphoric acid and sulfuric acid and such organic acids as acetic acid, citric acid, tartaric acid, lactic acid, succinic acid, fumaric acid, maleic acid and methanesulfonic acid. The compound of formula I according to the present invention may be prepared, for example, by the following methods, a to e . The isoquinolinesulfonyl compound represented by the formula I and salt thereof with a pharmacologically acceptable acid according to the present invention can increase the diameter of a blood vessel, and have an excellent smooth muscle relaxation action for a blood vessel, an excellent flow volume increase action for blood and an antihypertensive action. Hence, they can be advantageously utilized as vasodilator, cerebral circulation ameliorator, antihypertensive agent and drugs for prevention and treatment of angina, cerebrovascular thrombosis, hypertonia, arteriosclerosis, cerebral apoplexy, the delayed cerebral vasospasm occurring after the subarachnoid hemorrhage in humans, and the other circulatory organ diseases. The above mentioned relaxation action for a blood vessel was confirmed by the relaxation of the mesenteric artery of a rabbit in accordance with the method described later. The above mentioned flow volume increase action for blood was confirmed by the blood flow volume increase of dog s femoral and vertebral arteries in accordance with the method described later. The above mentioned antihypertensive action was confirmed by the indirect tail plethysmographic method of systolic blood pressure after oral administration of test drugs using male spontaneously hypertensive rats in accordance with the method described later. The effects of the isoquinolinesulfonyl derivatives of this invention on a two hemorrhage canine model of delayed cerebral vasospasm were examined. The method of inducing a cerebral vasospasm was the same as that reported by Varsos et al. Journal of Neurosurgery, volume 58, p11 17, 1983 . The intravenous administration of isoquinolinesulfonyl derivatives of this invention significantly reversed the experimental cerebral vasospasm. As far as is known, these isoquinolinesulfonyl derivatives are the first drugs which can reverse two hemorrhage cerebral vasospasm by its systemic use. The present findings demonstrate that the isoquinolinesulfonyl derivatives of this invention will prevent or reverse the cerebral vasospasm occurring after the subarachnoid hemorrhage in humans. Acute toxicity of the compounds of the present invention was determined according to the method given below, and the results are shown in Table 15. For example, 1 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl homopiperazine and 1 1 hydroxy 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl homopiperazine exhibited LD₅₀ values of 73.5 mg kg and 145 mg kg, respectively. It is known from the results that the acute toxicity of the compounds of the present invention is satisfactorily low. Particularly, with respect to the relaxation action for a blood vessel, the compounds of the present invention have a high relaxation effect on smooth muscles. The effect will be demonstrated in Application Example 1 given hereinafter, using a spiral sample prepared from a mesenteric artery of a rabbit. For example, 1 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl homopiperazine according to the present invention has a ED₅₀ value, which indicates a concentration of the compound at which 50 relaxation is attained, of as low as 0.8 µM This shows an excellent relaxation effect of the present compound on smooth muscles of blood vessels. Further, with respect to the increase effect on blood flow, the compounds of the present invention were intravenously administered to dogs, and change in blood flow was measured plethysmographically in Application Example 3. At a dosage of 0.3 mg kg, 1 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl homopiperazine elicited 48 and 160 augmentation in the blood flows through femoral and vertebral arteries, respectively and 1 1 hydroxy 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl homopiperazine elicited 30 and 48 augmentation in the blood flows through femoral and vertebral arteries, respectively. As is apparent from the results, the compounds of the present invention have a high increase effect on blood flow. The present invention, in still a further aspect, is directed to pharmaceutical compositions incorporating a compound of the formula I hereof including 1 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl homopiperazine as an essential active component in admixture with a pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic carrier. The compound of the present invention may be administered to humans orally or by intravenous injection. The compound may be orally administered in an amount of 20 to 300 mg per day for an adult in 2 to 3 administrations, and for a period of from 1 week to 2 months daily. Both the daily dosage and the period, of administration vary to some extent depending on the condition of the patient. Further, the compound of the present invention may preferably be administered intravenously for the prevention and treatment of the cerebral vasospasm occurring after the subarachnoid hemorrhage in humans, the treatment of the cerebral embolism in the acute stadium, etc. The compound may be dissolved in physiological salt solution and then administered in an amount of 10 to 100 mg per day for an adult over a period of 1 to 24 hours. The dosage and the administration time vary to some extent depending on the condition of the patient. Still further, the compound of the present invention may be used in combination with other drugs for the treatment of respiratory diseases. Depending on the condition of the patient, the compound of the present invention may be used in combination with, for example, a diuretic, an antihypertensive agent, a β blocker, a cerebral metabolism ameliorator, etc. Effect of the compounds of the present invention were examined in the following Application examples according to the methods given below. A rabbit of Japanese local variety weighing about 3 kg was subjected to blood letting to death. Then, abdomen of the rabbit was dissected to pick up a mesenteric artery. According to the customary method, the artery was cut into a spiral having a width of 2 mm and a length of 25 mm, and suspended in a 20 ml organ bath filled with Krebs Henseleit nutrient solution through which a mixture gas consisting of 95 by volume of O₂ and 5 by volume of CO₂ had been bubbled. The free end of the suspended artery was connected to an isometric transducer FD Pickup TB912T, trade name of NIHON KODEN CO., LTD. and tensed at a load of 15 g. Thus, the shrinkage and relaxation of the artery was ready to be measured as a load on the transducer. To the organ bath, KCl was added in an amount which makes the artery shrink at a half length that in 15 to 20 mM aqueous solution. Then, hydrochlorides of the compounds of the present invention were added to the organ bath to observe relaxation effect on the artery. Measurement was made of concentrations of the hydrochloride ED₅₀ which attained 50 of the complete relaxation. Male spontaneously hypertensive rats SHR, Wister Kyoto weighing 300 to 350 g were used. Systolic blood pressure was measured indirectly by the tail plethysmographic method in conscious SHR, just prior to, and 1, 2, 4 and 6 hours after oral administration of test drugs. Test drugs, dissolved in deionized water, were administered orally in a volume of 10 ml solution kg rat. Reduction in systolic blood pressure ΔP, mmHg was calculated by substracting a systolic blood pressure after administration from that just prior to administration. Mongrel dogs weighing 8 to 15 kg were put under anesthesia by intravenously administering pentobarbital in a dose of 35 mg kg. A plethysmographic probe manufactured and sold by NIXON KODEN CO., LTD. was mounted on the femoral and vertebral arteries, and blood flow volume was measured by means of a electromagnetic blood flowmeter type MF 27, manufactured and sold by NIXON KODEN CO., LTD. . Under these conditions, compounds of the present invention were intravenously administered through a polyethylene tube inserted to a femoral veinlet, and change in blood flow volume was measured by means of the electromagnetic blood flowmeter. Mongrel dogs of either sex weighing 7 to 11 kg were used. All procedures were performed under anesthesia with sodium pentobarbital 20 to 30 mg kg, intravenous administration after premedication with ketamine hydrochloride 12 mg kg, intramuscular administration and spontaneous respiration through an endotracheal intubation. The method of inducing a two hemorrhage canine model of subarachnoid hemorrhage was essentially the same as that reported by Varsos et al. Journal of Neurosurgery, volume 58, p 11 17, 1983 two successive administrations were effected, two days apart on Day 1 and Day 3 , of fresh autogenous blood into the cisterna magna. A control angiogram was taken by a direct puncture of the vertebral artery on Day 1 before the blood injection. The second angiogram was made to confirm the presence of a vasospasm on Day 7. On Day 7, after the occurrence of a chronic vasospasm was confirmed by the second angiogram, the compounds of the present invention were intrvenously infused from the femoral vein with a Harvard pump over a period of 30 minutes. Angiograms were taken from the initiation of the infusion. The diameter of the basilar artery was measured on the angiogram by means of a microdensitometer SAKUHA DENSITOMETER PD 7R . The effect on this cerebral vasospasm model of the compounds of the present invention was expressed as an increased percentage of the diameter after the infusion of the compounds of the present invention to that before the infusion. Using ddY male mice, acute toxicity of the compounds of the present invention was examined according to the method proposed by K. Takagi et al. K. Takagi and H. Ozawa, Experimental Techniques in Pharmacology, p200 206 1960 , NANZANDO CO., LTD. . To 1200 ml of thionyl chloride were added 150 g of 5 isoquinolinesulfonic acid and 0.4 ml of N,N dimethylformamide. Then, the resulting mixture was refluxed while heating at 80 to 85 C for 3 hours, followed by removal of the thionyl chloride under reduced pressure. Subsequently, 300 ml of dichloromethane was added to the reaction mixture to precipitate crystals. The precipitated crystals were separated by filtration, washed with 100 ml of dichloromethane, and then dried under reduced pressure to obtain 170 g of 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl chloride hydrochloride. 145 g of 1 Chloroisoquinoline was dropwise added to 500 g of 60 fuming sulfuric acid while cooling with ice. Then, the temperature was elevated to 80 C and the reaction was effected while stirring for 18 hours. The obtained reaction mixture was added to 1 kg of ice water, followed by stirring for 2 hours at 5 C to precipitate crystals. The thus obtained crystals were separated by filtration, washed with 100 ml of methanol and then with 100 ml of ether, and dried under reduced pressure to obtain 126 g of 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonic acid. The compound was analyzed to give the following data. To 40 ml of thionyl chloride were added 2.93 g of 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonic acid as obtained in Example 1 and 0.4 ml of N,N dimethylformamide. Then, the resulting mixture was refluxed while heating at 80 to 85 C for 2 hours, followed by removal of the thionyl chloride under reduced pressure. Subsequently, 10 ml of dichloromethane was added to the reaction mixture to precipitate crystals, followed by separation of the crystals by filtration. The crystals thus obtained were washed with 10 ml of dichloromethane, and then dried under reduced pressure to obtain 3.06 g of 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl chloride hydrochloride. The compound was analyzed to give the following data. In 50 ml of ice water was dissolved 5.5 g of 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl chloride hydrochloride as obtained in Reference Example, and the pH of the solution was adjusted to 6 with an aqueous sodium hydrogencarbonate saturated solution, followed by extraction with 100 ml of dichloromethane. The dichloromethane layer was added dropwise to a 50 ml of dichloromethane solution containing 5.0 g of homopiperazine for 20 minutes while cooling with ice. The mixture was stirred at a temperature of 15 C to 20 C for 2 hours, washed with water, and dried with anhydrous magnesium sulfate. Then, the dichloromethane was removed under reduced pressure to obtain an oily residue. The thus obtained oily residue was subjected to purification by the silica gel column chromatography Wacogel C 200, 200 g solvent chloroform , thereby to obtain 5.1 g of 1 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl homopiperazine in a 88 yield. The thus obtained compound was analyzed to give the following data. Substantially the same procedures as described above were repeated except that each of the compounds of the formula IV as set forth in Table 1 1 was used in place of homopiperazine used above and that other reaction conditions were changed as indicated in Table 1 1. As a result, there were obtained 1 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 3 methylhomopiperazine, i.e.,Compound 2 1 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 6 methylhomopiperazine,i.e.,Compound 3 1 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 2,3 dimethylhomopiperazine,i.e.,Compound 4 1 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 3,3 dimethylhomopiperazine, i.e.,Compound 5 1 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 3 ethylhomopiperazine,i.e.,Compound 6 1 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 3 isobutylhomopiperazine,i.e.,Compound 8 1 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 3 phenylhomopiperazine, i.e.,Compound 9 1 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 6 ethylhomopiperazine, i.e., Compound 11 1 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 6 propylhomopiperazine,i.e., Compound 12 1 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 6 hexylhomopiperazine,i.e., Compound 15 1 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 6 benzylhomopiperazine,i.e., Compound 17 . The yields and analytical values of these compounds are shown in Table 1 2. In 50 ml of ice water was dissolved 5.5 g of 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl chloride hydrochloride as obtained in Reference Example, and the pH of the solution was adjusted to 6 with an aqueous sodium hydrogencarbonate saturated solution, followed by extraction with 100 ml of dichloromethane. The dichloromethane layer was added dropwise to a 50 ml of dichloromethane solution containing 6.0 g of 1 benzyloxycarbonyl 3 methylhomopiperazine and 3.5 g of triethylamine for 1 hour while cooling with ice. The mixture was stirred at a temperature of 5 C to 15 C for 12 hours, washed with water, and dried with anhydrous magnesium sulfate. Then, the dichloromethane was removed under reduced pressure to obtain an oily residue. To the thus obtained oily residue was added 30 ml of a 25 hydrobromic acid solution in acetic acid, and the mixture was stirred for 5 hours at a temperature of 15 C to 20 C and then poured into 100 ml of ice water. The pH of the aqueous layer was In 10 ml of ice water was dissolved 1.38 g of 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl chloride hydrochloride as obtained in Reference Example. Then, the pH of the solution was adjusted to 6 with an aqueous sodium hydrogencarbonate solution, followed by extraction with 30 ml of dichloromethane. The dichloromethane layer was added dropwise to a 20 ml of dichloromethane solution containing 0.85 g of 1 methylhomopiperazine and 1.0 g of triethylamine while cooling with ice The mixture was stirred at a temperature of 10 C to 20 C for 2 hours, washed with water, and dried with anhydrous magnesium sulfate. Then, the dichloromethane was removed under reduced pressure to obtain an oily residue. The thus obtained oily residue was subjected to purification by the silica gel column chromatography Wacogel C 200, 80 g solvent a 3 methanol solution in chloroform , thereby to obtain 1.25 g of 1 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 4 methylhomopiperazine, i.e., Compound 18 in a 86 yield. Analytical data on Compound 18 are given below. Substantially the same procedures as described above were repeated except that each of the compounds of the formula IV as set forth in Table 2 1 was used in place of 1 methylhomopiperazine used above and that other reaction conditions were changed as indicated in Table 2 1. As a result, there were obtained 1 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 4 ethylhomopiperazine, i.e., Compound 19 1 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 4 butylhomopiperazine,i.e.,Compound 21 1 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 4 hexylhomopiperazine,i.e.,Compound 22 . The yields and analytical values of these compounds are shown in Table 2 2. 5 g of 1 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl homopiperazine as prepared in substantially the same manner as in Example 3 was dissolved in 40 ml of methanol, and the pH of the solution was adjusted to 6 with 1N hydrochloric acid. Then the solution was condensed under reduced pressure to obtain a crystalline residue. The crystalline residue thus obtained was recrystallized from methanol ether to obtain 1 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl homopiperazine hydrochloride. Analytical data on this compound are given below. Substantially the same procedures were repeated Elemental analysis data on the thus obtaining hydrochlorides are shown in Table 3. To 40 ml of thionyl chloride were added 2.93 g of 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonic acid as obtained in Example 1 and 0.4 ml of N,N dimethylformamide. Then, the resulting mixture was refluxed while heating at 80 to 85 C for 2 hours, followed by removal of the thionyl chloride under reduced pressure to obtain a crystalline residue. The crystalline residue thus obtained was dissolved in a liquid consisting of 50 ml of water and 50 ml of dichloromethane, and the pH of the water layer was adjusted to 6.0 with an aqueous sodium hydrogencarbonate saturated solution. Then, the dichloromethane layer was added to a 50 ml of dichloromethane solution containing 2.40 g of ethylenediamine for 5 minutes while cooling with ice Subsequently, the mixture was stirred for 2 hours at a temperature of 10 C to 25 C. Then the dichloromethane was distilled off under reduced pressure to obtain an oily residue. The oily residue thus obtained was subjected to purification by the silica gel column chromatography Wacogel C 200, 200 g solvent a 5 methanol solution in chloroform , thereby to obtain 2.48 g of N 2 aminoethyl 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide, i.e., Compound, 23 in a 72 yield. Analytical data on Compound 23 are given below. Substantially the same procedures as described above were repeated except that each of the compounds of the formula IV as set forth in Table 4 1 was used in place of ethylenediamine used above and that other reaction conditions were changed as indicated in Table 4 1. As a result, there were obtained N 4 aminobutyl 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide, i.e., Compound 24 1 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 3 methylpiperazine,i.e.,Compound 37 1 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 3 ethylpiperazine, i.e.,Compound 38 1 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 3 isobutylpiperazine,i.e.,Compound 39 1 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 2,5 dimethylpiperazine, i.e., Compound 40 1 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 4 methylpiperazine,i.e.,Compound 41 . Analytical values of these compounds are shown in Table 4 2. To 40 ml of thionyl chloride were added 2.93 g of 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonic acid as obtained in Example 1 and 0.4 ml of N,N dimethylformamide. Then, the resulting mixture was refluxed while heating at 80 to 85 C for 2 hours, followed by removal of the thionyl chloride and N,N dimethylformamide under reduced pressure to obtain a residue. Then, the residue was dissolved in 50 ml of water, and the pH of the aqueous solution was adjusted to 6.0 with an aqueous sodium hydrogencarbonate saturated solution, followed by extraction twice with 50 ml of dichloromethane. The dichloromethane layer was dried with anhydrous sodium sulfate. Then, the dichloromethane was removed under reduced pressure to obtain a reaction residue, and the residue was dissolved in 30 ml of tetrahydrofuran The solution thus obtained was added to a 30 ml of aqueous solution containing 5.73 g of 1 amidino 3 methylpiperazine sulfate for 5 minutes while cooling with ice, followed by stirring for 1 Substantially the same procedures as described above were repeated except that each of the compounds of the formula IV as set forth in Table 5 1 was used in place of 1 amidino 3 methylpiperazine sulfate used above and that other reaction conditions were changed as indicated in Table 5 1. As a result, there were obtained N 3 guanidino 2 methylpropyl 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide, i.e., Compound 35 N 4 guanidino 3 methylbutyl 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide, i.e., Compound 36 1 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 4 amidinopiperazine, i.e., Compound 42 1 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 4 amidino 2,5 dimethylpiperazine, i.e., Compound 44 . The yield and analytical values of these compounds are shown in Table 5 2. To 50 ml of thionyl chloride were added 5.86 g of 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonic acid as obtained in Example 1 and 0.5 ml of N,N dimethylformamide. Then, the resulting mixture was refluxed while heating at 80 to 85 C for 2 hours, followed by removal of the thionyl chloride and N,N dimethylformamide under reduced pressure to obtain a residue. The thus obtained residue was dissolved in 50 ml of water, and the pH of the aqueous solution was adjusted to 6.0 with an aqueous sodium hydrogencarbonate saturated solution, followed by extraction twice with 50 ml of dichloromethane. The dichloromethane layer was added Substantially the same procedures as described above were repeated except that each of the compounds of the formula V as set forth in Table 6 1 was used in place of 1 benzyloxycarbonylamino 2 aminopropane and that other reaction conditions were changed as indicated in Table 6 1. As a result, there were obtained N 1 aminomethylpentyl 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide, i.e., Compound 26 N 2 amino 3 methylbutyl 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide, i.e., Compound 27 . The yields and analytical values of these compounds are shown in Table 6 2. In 50 ml of water were dissolved 3.0 g of N 2 amino 1 methylethyl 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide Compound 25 as obtained in Example 9, 4.17 g of S methylisothiourea sulfate and 1.2 g of sodium hydroxide. The resulting mixture was stirred for 2 hours at a temperature of 60 C, and then cooled in an ice bath to precipitate crystals, followed by separation of the crystals by filtration. The crystalline residue thus obtained was washed with water to obtain Substantially the same procedures as described above were repeated except that each of the compounds of the formula VII obtained in Examples 7 and 9 as set forth in Table 7 1 was used as a starting compound in place of Compound 25 used above and that other reaction conditions were changed as indicated in Table 7 1. As a result, there were obtained N 2 guanidinoethyl 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide, i.e., Compound 30 N 4 guanidinobutyl 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide, i.e., Compound 31 N 1 guanidinomethylpentyl 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide, i.e., Compound 33 N 2 guanidino 3 methylbutyl 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide, i.e., Compound 34 . The yields and analytical values of these compounds are shown in Table 7 2. To 50 ml of thionyl chloride were added 5.85 g of 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonic acid as obtained in Example 1 and 0.5 ml of N,N dimethylformamide. Then, the resulting mixture was refluxed while heating for 2 hours, followed by removal of the thionyl chloride and N,N dimethylformamide under reduced pressure to obtain a residue. Then, the residue was dissolved in 50 ml of water, and the pH of the aqueous solution was adjusted to 6.0 with an aqueous sodium hydrogencarbonate saturated solution, followed by extraction twice with 50 ml of dichloromethane. The dichloromethane layer was added to a 50 ml of dichloromethane solution containing 1.84 g of ethanolamine and 3.03 g of triethylamine for 5 minutes while cooling with ice. Then, the mixture was stirred for 1 hour at a temperature of 10 C to 20 C. The thus obtained reaction mixture was washed thrice with water, dried with anhydrous sodium sulfate and then distilled under reduced pressure to obtain 5.04 9 of N 2 hydroxyethyl 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide in a 96 yield. To 40 ml of a pyridine solution containing 2.63 9 of N 2 hydroxyethyl 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide as obtained above was added 3.81 9 of p toluenesulfonyl chloride while cooling with ice. The solution thus obtained was stirred for 24 hours at a temperature of 5 C and poured into 100 g of ice water followed by extraction twice with 100 ml of dichloromethane. The dichloromethane layer was dried with anhydrous sodium sulfate and condensed under reduced pressure to obtain 4.32 g of N 2 p toluenesulfonyloxyethyl 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide. 4 g of the thus obtained N 2 p toluenesulfonyloxyethyl 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide and 1 ml of a 40 methylamine solution in methanol were put in 50 ml of dichloromethane and heated for 4 hours at 70 C in a sealed bottle. After cooling, the reaction mixture was condensed under reduced pressure to obtain an oily residue. The oily residue thus obtained was subjected to purification by the silica gel column chromatography Wacogel C 200, 100 g solvent a 10 methanol solution in chloroform to obtain 4.86 g of N 2 methylaminoethyl 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide, i.e., Compound 68 , in a 79 yield. Analytical data on Compound 68 are given below. 10 g of N 2 aminoethyl 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide Compound 23 as obtained in Example 7 was mixed with 100 ml of 6 N hydrochloric acid, and the mixture was stirred for 6 hours at a temperature of 65 C to precipitate crystals. The crystals were separated by filtration, washed with water and ethanol to obtain 8.94 g of N 2 aminoethyl 1 hydroxy 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide hydrochloride, i.e., Compound 45 , in a 84 yield. Analytical data on Compound 45 are given below. Substantially the same procedures were repeated except that the starting compounds of the formula XV as indicated in Table 8 1 were used in place of Compound 23 used above and that some other reaction conditions were changed as set forth in Table 8 1. As a result, there were obtained N 4 aminobutyl 1 hydroxy 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide, i.e., Compound 46 N 2 amino 1 methylethyl 1 hydroxy 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide, i.e., Compound 47 N 1 amino methylpentyl 1 hydroxy 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide, i.e., Compound 48 N 2 amino 3 methylbutyl 1 hydoxy 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide, i.e., Compound 49 N 2 guanidinoethyl 1 hydroxy 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide, i.e., Compound 52 N 4 guanidinobutyl 1 hydroxy 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide, i.e., Compound 53 N 2 guanidino 1 methylethyl 1 hydroxy 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide, i.e., Compound 54 N 1 guanidinomethylpentyl 1 hydroxy 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide, i.e., Compound 55 N 2 guanidino 3 methylbutyl 1 hydroxy 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide, i.e., Compound 56 N 3 guanidino 2 methylpropyl 1 hydroxy 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide, i.e., Compound 57 N 3 guanidino 3 methylbutyl 1 hydroxy 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide, i.e. Compound 58 1 1 hydroxy 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 3 methylpiperazine, i.e. Compound 59 1 1 hydroxy 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 3 ethylpiperazine, i.e., Compound 60 1 1 hydroxy 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 3 isobutylpiperazine, i.e., Compound 61 1 1 hydroxy 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 2,5 dimethylpiperazine, i.e., Compound 62 1 1 hydroxy 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 4 methylpiperazine, i.e. Compound 63 1 1 hydroxy 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 4 amidinopiperazine, i.e., Compound 64 1 1 hydroxy 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 4 amidinohomopiperazine, i.e., Compound 65 1 1 hydroxy 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 4 amidino 2 methylpiperazine, i.e., Compound 66 1 1 hydroxy 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 4 amidino 2,5 dimethylpiperazine, i.e., Compound 67 . The yields and analytical values of these compounds are shown in Table 8 2. To 50 ml of thionyl chloride were added 5.86 g of 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonic acid as obtained in Example 1 and 0.5 ml of N,N dimethylformamide. Then, the resulting mixture was refluxed while heating at 80 to 85 C for 2 hours, followed by removal of the thionyl chloride and N,N dimethylformamide under reduced pressure to obtain a residue. The thus obtained residue was dissolved in 50 ml of water, and the pH of the aqueous solution was adjusted to 6.0 with an aqueous sodium hydrogencarbonate saturated solution, followed by extraction twice with 50 ml of dichloromethane. The dichloromethane layer was added Substantially the same procedures as described above were repeated except that each of compounds of the formula V as set forth in Table 9 1 was used in place of N 2 aminoethyl N t butoxycarbonylhexylamine and that other reaction conditions were changed as indicated in Table 9 1. As a result, there were obtained N 2 ethylaminoethyl 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide, i.e., Compound 69 N 2 propylaminoethyl 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide, i.e., Compound 70 N 2 butylaminoethyl 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide, i.e., Compound 71 . The yields and analytical values of these compounds are shown in Table 9 2. 4 g of N 2 hexylaminoethyl 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide Compound 72 as obtained in Example 13 was mixed with 50 ml of 6 N hydrochloric acid and the resulting mixture was stirred for 6 hours at a temperature of 65 C. Then, the reaction mixture was allowed to cool for 2 hours to precipitate To 50 ml of thionyl chloride were added 5.85 g of 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonic acid as obtained in Example 1 and 0.5 ml of N,N dimethylformamide. Then, the resulting mixture was refluxed while heating at 80 to 85 C for 2 hours, followed by removal of the thionyl chloride and N,N dimethylformamide under reduced pressure to obtain a residue. The residue was dissolved in a liquid consisting of 20 ml of water and 50 ml of dichloromethane, and the pH of the aqueous solution was adjusted to 6.0 with an aqueous sodium hydrogencarbonate saturated solution. Then, the dichloromethane layer was added to a 100 ml of a dichloromethane solution containing 6.0 g of homopiperazine for 20 minutes while cooling with ice, followed by stirring for 1 hour at a temperature of 15 C to 20 C. The obtained reaction mixture was washed thrice with 50 ml of water, dried with anhydrous sodium sulfate and then distilled under reduced pressure to obtain oily residue. The thus obtained oily residue was subjected to purification by the silica gel column chromatography Wacogel C 200, 150 g solvent a 5 methanol solution in chloroform , thereby to obtain 5.5 g of 1 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl homopiperazine, i.e., Compound 74 in a 84 yield. Analytical data on Compound 74 are given below. Substantially the same procedures as in Example 15 were repeated except that 5.16 g of piperazine was used in place of 6.0 g of homopiperazine. As a result, there was obtained 5.5 g of 1 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl piperazine, i.e., Compound 73 , in a 88 yield. Analytical data on Compound 73 are given below. 9.7 g of 1 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl homopiperazine Compound 74 as obtained in substantially the same manner as in Example 15 was mixed with 100 ml of 6N hydrochloric acid, and the mixture was stirred for 6 hours at a temperature of 65 C to precipitate crystals. Then, the crystals were separated by filtration, and washed with water and then ethanol to obtain 6.9 g of 1 1 hydroxy 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl homopiperazine, i.e., Compound 81 , in a 67 yield. Analytical data on Compound 81 are given below. In substantially the same manner as in the above Example, various compounds of the present invention were prepared. These compounds are 1 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 3 propylhomopiperazine, i.e., Compound 7 1 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 3 benzylhomopiperazine, i.e., Compound 10 1 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 6 butylhomopiperazine, i.e., Compound 13 1 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 6 pentylhomopiperazine, i.e., Compound 14 1 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 6 phenylhomopiperazine, i.e., Compound 16 1 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl 4 propylhomopiperazine, i.e., Compound 20 N 3 di n butylaminopropyl 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide, i.e., Compound 28 N 2 N cyclohexyl N methylamino ethyl 1 chloro 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide, i.e., Compound 29 N 3 di n butylaminopropyl 1 hydroxy 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide, i.e., Compound 50 N 2 N cyclohexyl N methylamino ethyl 1 hydroxy 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide, i.e., Compound 51 N 2 methylaminoethyl 1 hydroxy 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide, i.e., Compound 75 N 2 ethylaminoethyl 1 hydroxy 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide, i.e., Compound 76 N 2 propylaminoethyl 1 hydroxy 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide, i.e., Compound 77 N 2 butylaminoethyl 1 hydroxy 5 isoquinolinesulfonamide, i.e., Compound 78 1 1 hydroxy 5 isoquinolinesulfonyl piperazine, i.e., Compound 80 . Of them, Compounds 7 to 16 were prepared in substantially the same manner as in Example 4, Compound 20 Example 5, Compounds 28 and 29 Example 7, and Compounds 50 to 80 Example 17. Effect of the compounds of the present invention on relaxation of mesenteric artery was examined according to the method as mentioned hereinbefore. The obtained ED₅₀ values are shown in Table 11. Effect of the compounds of the present invention on reduction of blood pressure was examined according to the method as mentioned hereinbefore. The obtained maximally reduced blood pressures ΔPmax, mmHg are shown in Tables 12 1 and 12 2. Effect of the compounds of the present invention Effect of the compounds of the present invention on a two hemorrhage canine model of delayed cerebral vesospasm was examined according to the method as mentioned hereinbefore. The results are shown in Table 14. Acute toxicity test of the compounds of the present invention was effected according to the method as mentioned hereinbefore. The results are shown in Table 15.