# NONVOLATILE SEMICONDUCTOR MEMORY DEVICE

## Claims
Nichtflüchtige Halbleiterspeichervorrichtung mit

## Description
This invention relates to a nonvolatile semiconductor memory device using nonvolatile memory cells. Electrically erasable and programmable read only memories EEPROM or erasable and programmable read only memory EPROM using nonvolatile memory cells have long been known. Each of the memory cells has a double layered gate structure comprising a floating gate and a control gate. Data can be electrically written into and erased from the memory cells. Each nonvolatile memory cell can be structurally illustrated in the form of an MOS metal oxide semiconductor transistor, as shown in Figs. 1A to 1D. In Figs. 1A through 1D, 101 and 102 are source and drain regions, respectively. A floating gate electrode, denoted by 103, which is in an electrically floating state, is made of, for example, polycrystalline silicon. A control gate electrode, denoted by 104, is similarly made of, for example, polycrystalline silicon. A relatively thick insulating film of, for example, a silicon oxide film, exists between floating gate electrode 103 and semiconductor substrate 105, and between floating gate electrode 103 arid control gate electrode 104. Relatively thin insulating film 107 of, for example, a silicon oxide film, is formed on substrate 105, where floating gate electrode 103 closes drain region 102. Data is set into the memory cell by injecting electrons into floating gate 103 of the cell. When electrons are injected into floating gate 103, the threshold value of the cell transistor is high. Consequently, even if a high voltage is applied to control gate 104, the transistor is not turned on. When electrons have been discharged from the memory cell, the cell transistor is turned on, providing a high voltage is applied to control gate 104. By detecting the on or off state of the cell transistor, 1 or 0 data of the cell is determined. To inject electrons into floating gate 103, a high voltage is applied to control gate 104. As a result of the application of this high potential, the potential at floating gate 103 is increased through the capacitor coupling between control gate 104 and floating gate 103. Then, electrons are injected from drain 102 into floating gate 103 through thin region 107 of insulating film 106. To discharge electrons from floating gate 103, control gate 104 is grounded, while drain region 102 is set to a high potential. In turn, electrons are discharged fro floating gate 103 to drain region 102 through thin region 107 of insulating film 106. The memory device comprises memory cells arranged in a matrix fashion. To write data into the selected cell, a high voltage must be selectively applied to the control gate electrode. To obtain the high voltage, some of the memory devices contain boost circuits. In this type of memory device, a power source voltage of 5 V, for example, can be boosted to, for example, 20 V. An example of such a boost circuit is shown in Fig. 2. Timing charts of pulse signals 1 and 2, used to control the operation of the boost circuit, are shown in Figs. 3A and 3B. The known boost circuit comprises a plurality of enhancement type MOS transistors 201 serving as diodes, and a plurality of capacitors 202. Under control of pulse signals 1 and 2, the boost circuit can boost a 5 V power source voltage Vc to as high a voltage V A circuit diagram of a conventional EPROM is shown in Fig. 4. Memory cells TM11 to TMmn, as MOS transistors of the double layered gate floating and control gates structure, are located at the cross points of row lines R1 to Rm and column lines D1 to Dn. The sources of memory cells TM11 to TMmn are all grounded. Memory cells TM11 to TMmn cooperate to form memory cell array 10. Row lines R1 to Rm are connected to row decoder 20 through depletion type D type MOS transistors TR1 to TRm. Control signal R Column lines D1 to Dn are connected to signal detection node N1, through enhancement type E type MOS transistors TD1 to TDn. Sense amplifier 40 is connected to node N1. Output circuit 50 is connected to amplifier 40. A signal at node N1 is detected by amplifier 40 and output to the exterior through output circuit 50. Column select lines C1 to Cn are connected to the gates of transistors TD1 to TDn, respectively. Lines C1 to Cn are connected to column decoder 60 through D type MOS transistors TC1 to TCn. Control signal R Write circuit 70 selectively feeds high voltage V E type MOS transistor T1 is connected between node N1 and terminal 78 which is connected to voltage V Circuit 80 is comprised of power source terminal 82, NAND gate circuit 83, and voltage output control circuit 84. NAND gate 83 includes D type MOS transistor T2 and E type MOS transistors T3 and T4, which are connected in series between ground and power source terminal 82 which is connected to voltage Vc. Voltage output control circuit 84 includes D type transistors TW11 to TW13, and E type transistor TW14, and controls voltage V In the read mode of the EPROM thus arranged, signal R Of row lines R1 to Rm and column select lines C1 to Cn, only those selected by row decoder 20 or column decoder 60 are set at high level. Then, memory cell TM generally designated as TM11 to TMmn in memory cell array 10, located at this intersecting point, is selected. If no carriers are injected into selected memory cell TM, the memory cell is turned on, allowing current to flow between the drain and source. If carriers are injected into selected memory cell TM, the memory cell is turned off and signal detecting node N1 is set to high level by the load in sense amplifier 40. The signal at node N1 at this time is output to the exterior through sense amplifier 40 and output circuit 50. When 1 level data is written into the cell, signal R When 1 level data has been written into a memory cell, it is retained unless erased. In this respect, the cell data is nonvolatile. The conventional nonvolatile semiconductor memory device, however, needs boosted voltage distribution circuits for each row line and each column select line. This results in an increase in the number of circuit elements required for the memory device as a whole, resulting in reduction of packing density when the device is fabricated by IC technology. GB A 2 094 086 describes a non volatile semiconductor memory system including a memory cell array having floating gate type MOS transistors, and a boosting circuit for boosting a write voltage applied to the memory system. A distributing circuit is further contained for selectively distributing a boosted voltage from the boosting circuit to at least a part of the memory system, for example, row lines in response to a control signal. Distributing circuits may be responsive to the state of address lines such that the boosted voltage is only applied to the selected row and column, thereby reducing power requirements. Accordingly, an object of the present invention is to provide a nonvolatile semiconductor memory device in which the number of necessary high voltage supply circuits has been decreased. According to the invention, there is provided a nonvolatile semiconductor memory device comprising This invention can be more fully understood from the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which An EPROM according to an embodiment of the present invention will be described with reference to Figs. 5A to 5D. This embodiment differs from the EPROM shown in Fig. 4 in the following respects. While the conventional circuit shown in Fig. 4 uses boosted voltage distribution circuits for each row line or each column select line, the circuit of this embodiment, shown in Figs. 5A to 5D, uses one boosted voltage distribution circuit for four column select lines or four row lines. Further, decoders 90₁ to 90₄ are additionally provided. In the EPROM shown in Fig. 5A to 5D, memory cells TM11 to TMmn MOS transistors of a double gate floating and control gates structure are located at the intersections of row lines R1 to Rm and column lines D1 to Dn. The sources of memory cells TM11 to TMmn are all grounded. Memory cells TM11 to TMmn cooperate to form memory cell array 10. Row lines R1 to Rm are connected to row decoder 20 through depletion type D type MOS transistors TR1 to TRm. Control signal R Column lines D1 to Dn are connected to signal detection node N1 through column selection enhancement type E type MOS transistors TD1 to TDn. Sense amplifier 40 is connected to node N1. Output circuit 50 is connected to amplifier 40. A signal at node N1 is detected by amplifier 40 and output to the exterior through output circuit 50. Column select lines C1 to Cn are connected to the gates of transistors TD1 to TDn, respectively. Lines C1 to Cn are connected to column decoder 60 through D type MOS transistors TC1 to TCn. Control signal R Write circuits 70R and 70C are used to supply high voltage Vp to row lines R and column lines C, when data is to be written into memory cells TM11 to TMmn. Write circuit 70R comprises boosted voltage distributing circuits 72R1 to 72Ri. Of The structure and operation of the boosted voltage distributing circuits 72C1 to 72Ci are substantially the same as those of boosted voltage distributing circuits 72R1 to 72Ri, except that circuits 72C1 to 72Ci are connected to groups of the four column select lines C1, C2, C3, C4 ... C Signal H1, derived from decoder 90₁, is applied to the gates of transistors TWR11, TWR21, ..., TWRi1. Similarly, signal H2, derived from decoder 90₂, is applied to the gates of transistors TWR12, TWR22, ..., TWRi2. Signal H3, derived from decoder 90₃, is connected to the gates of transistors TWR13, TWR23, ..., TWRi3. Signal H4, coming from decoder 90₄, is applied to the gates of transistors TWR14, TWR24, ... TWRi4. Decoders 90₁ through 90₄ have the same configurations. As typified by decoder 90₄, each circuit comprises D type MOS transistor T11 for load, NAND gate circuit 92, and voltage output control circuit 93. The source drain path of transistor T11 is inserted between power source terminal 91, coupled with voltage Vc, and node N11. The gate of transistor T11 is connected to node N11. E type MOS transistors T12 to T14 are connected in series between node N11 and ground potential. Two bit row address signals RA1 and RA2 are applied to the gates of transistors T12 and T13. Signal Decoders 90₂ to 90₄ are similarly configured. In decoder 90₃, signals RA1 and When row decoder 20 is constructed with a NAND type circuit, address signals With such an arrangement, when the memory device is in the read mode, signal R In the write mode, since signal When signal H4 is set at a high voltage, only selected transistors TWR14, TWR24, ..., TWRi4, of which the gates are coupled with signal H4, are turned on. Under this condition, of selected transistors TWR11 to TWR14, transistors TWR11 to TWR13 are turned off and disconnected from boosted voltage distribution circuit 72R1. Only row line R4 remains connected to boosted voltage distribution circuit 72R1. In circuit 72R1, by the signal of 1 level in row line R4, transistor TW5 is turned off. As a result, the gate of transistor TW2 is set in 0 level. At the same time, transistor TW1 is turned on. Transistor TW2 is turned off, so that high voltage VH is applied to node N20, coupled with the gate of transistor TW5, through transistors TW1 and TW3. Then, row line R4 is charged up to high voltage VH. Of row lines R5 through R8, for example, lines R5 to R7 are disconnected from boosted voltage distribution circuit 72R2 by select transistors TWR21 to TWR23. Only row line R8 is connected, through transistor TWR24, to distribution circuit 72R2. Because, row line R8 has not been selected by row decoder 20, it is set in 0 level, and no high voltage is applied to it from distribution circuit 72R2. The same thing is true for other groups of other four row lines for example, a group of row lines R1 through R4 . Consequently, no current is caused by the high voltage in distribution circuits 72R2 to 72Ri. Subsequently, data is written into a memory cell at the intersecting point of the column line not shown which is placed in a select state and row line R4 to which high voltage VH is selectively applied. The written data is retained in the cell unless it is erased. As described above, in the present embodiment, one boosted voltage distribution circuit is provided for each group of four row lines R1 through R4, R5 through R8, ... and Rm 3 through Rm. Similarly, one boosted voltage distribution circuit is provided for each of four column select line groups C1 through C4 and C5 through C8, .... Therefore, the number of the boosted voltage distribution circuits can be reduced to one quarter that of the conventional memory device. In this embodiment, four decoder 90 are additionally provided. However, in general EPROMs, the number of row lines R is extremely large, and hence the number of distribution circuits is considerably large. For this reason, the number of circuit elements is considerably reduced for the entire memory device. This indicates that the memory device, when fabricated into an integrated circuit, requires a reduced size of the chip. Fig. 6 shows a modification of distribution circuit 72R in the device of Figs. 5A to 5D. In this modified circuit, voltage boost circuit 304 is used in place of circuit 72R. Circuit 304 is comprised of E type transistors 301 and 302 and capacitor 303. Circuit 304 is provided for each four row line group. One end of capacitor 303 is coupled with the output signal of oscillator 400 through inverter 305 which is supplied with high voltage Vp. In such a circuit arrangement, the output signal of oscillator 400 is converted into signal of high voltage Vp by inverter 305, and is fed to one end of capacitor 303 in boost circuit 304. In circuit 304, voltage Vp as applied through transistor 301 and through the capacitive coupling of capacitor 303 is boosted. The boosted voltage is rectified by transistor 302 and supplied to one row line R. Figs. 7A to 7D show a semiconductor memory device according to another embodiment of the invention. In this embodiment, the structure of boosted voltage distributing circuits 72R to 72C are different from those in the device of Figs. 5A to 5D. Others are substantially the same as those in the device of Figs. 5A to 5D. In the embodiment of Figs. 7A to 7D, boosted voltage distributing circuit 72R1 comprises power source terminal 71 to which write voltage Vp is applied, D type MOS transistor TW101 whose drain is connected to power source terminal 71, E type MOS transistors TWR11 to TWR14 whose drains are connected to the source of MOS transistor TW101 and whose sources are connected to row lines R1 to R4. Other boosted voltage distributing circuits 72R2, 72R3, ..., and 72Ri have substantially the same construction as that of boosted voltage distributing circuits 72R1. That is, boosted voltage distributing circuits 72R2 comprises power source terminal 71 to which write voltage Vp is applied, D type MOS transistor TW101 whose drain is connected to power source terminal 71, E type MOS transistors TWR21 to TWR24 whose drains are connected to the source of MOS transistor TWR101 and whose sources are connected to row lines R5 to R8. Boosted voltage distributing circuits 72Ri comprises power source terminal 71 to which write voltage Vp is applied, D type MOS transistor TW101 whose drain is connected to power source terminal 71, E type MOs transistors TWRi1 to TWRi4 whose drains are connected to the source of MOS transistor TW101 and whose sources are connected to row lines Rm3 to RM. Boosted voltage distributing circuit 72C1 comprises power source terminal 71 to which write voltage Vp is applied, D type MOB transistor TW101 whose drain is connected to power source terminal 71, E type MOS transistors TWRC11 to TWRC14 whose drains are connected to the source of MOS transistor TW101 and whose sources are connected to column select lines C1 to C4. Other boosted voltage distributing circuits 72C are substantially the same construction as that of boosted voltage distributing circuits 72C1 and the descriptions are omitted. With the device of Figs. 7A to 7D, when the memory device is in the read mode, signal R In the write mode, since signal R W is 1 in level, transistors T14 in decoders 90₁ to 90₄ are all turned on. At this time, if one row line R4 is selected, transistors T12 and T13 are both in an on state. The transistors T12 and T13 contained in decoder 90₄ are supplied with row address signals RA1 and RA2 same as those supplied to row decoder 20 when row line R4 is selected. As a result, only the signal at output node N11 of NAND gate circuit 92 in decoder 90₄ is set to 0 level. In turn, transistors TW11 and TW14 in voltage output control circuit 93 is turned off, and signal H4 is set to 1 level VH . At this time, either of transistors T12 and T13 is turned off in each of decoders 90₁ to 90₃. The signal at output node N11 of NAND gate circuit 92 is set to 1 level, so that transistor TW14 is turned on. Therefore, signals H1 to H3 are all in 0 level. When signal H4 is set at a high voltage, only selected transistors TWR14, TWR24, ..., TWRi4, of which the gates are coupled with signal H4, are turned on. Under this condition, of selected transistors TWR11 to TWR14, transistors TWR11 to TWR13 are turned off and disconnected from load transistor TW101. Only row line R4 remains connected to load transistor TW101, so that write voltage Vp is supplied to row line R4. Of four row lines R5 to R8, for example, lines R5 to R7 are disconnected from load resistors TW101 in boosted voltage distribution circuit 72R2 by select transistors TWR21 to TWR23. Only row line R8 is connected, through transistor TWR24, to distribution circuit 72R2. By this time, row line R8 has not been selected by row decoder 20, it is set in 0 level. The same thing is true for other groups of other four row lines for example, a group of row lines R1 through R4 . Subsequently, data is written into a memory cell at the intersecting point of the column line which is placed in a select state, and row line R4 to which write voltage Vp is selectively applied. The written data is retained in the cell unless it is erased. Fig. 8 shows a modification of the decoder 90₄ in the device of Figs. 7A to 7D. The modified circuit 96₄ is of NOR gate type and comprises D type MOS transistor T21 and E type MOS transistors T21 to T24. Transistors T21 and T23 are inserted in series between write voltage terminal 97, to which write voltage Vp is applied, and ground. Transistors T22 and T24 are connected in parallel to transistor T23. The gates of transistors T22 and T23 are inputted with row address signals RA1 and RA2, respectifely. The gate of transistor T24 is in putted with read write control signal R The invention can be modified in that, for example, three bit row address signals may be used. In such a case, eight row and or column select lines are gathered into a single group of lines. One distribution circuit is provided for each group of lines. Further, the distribution circuits are applicable for only one of the row and column lines. As described above, the present invention can provide the EPROM and EEPROM of which chip size is smaller than that of the conventional one when the memory device of the invention is fabricated by the IC technology.