# Method for manufacturing a magnetic recording medium.

## Abstract
A magnetic recording medium has a magnetic recording medium sheet 2 formed of a sheet like magnetic recording medium material having at least a magnetic recording layer, and a pair of nonwoven fabric layers 5a, 5b arranged so as to sandwich the magnetic recording medium sheet 2 therebetween and to face the two surfaces thereof for protecting the magnetic recording medium sheet 2 . The nonwoven fabric 5a or 5b facing at least one surface of the magnetic recording medium sheet is impregnated with a lubricating oil solution, diluted with a solvent, in advance such that the nonwoven fabric 5a or 5b is provided on the magnetic recording medium sheet 2 after being subjected to both the lubricating oil solution impregnation step and a drying step.

## Claims
Claims 1. A magnetic recording medium comprising a magnetic recording medium sheet 2 formed of a sheetlike magnetic recording medium material having at least a magnetic recording layer, characterized in that a pair of nonwoven fabric layers 5a, 5b are arranged so as to sandwich said magnetic recording medium sheet 2 therebetween and to face the two surfaces thereof for protecting said magnetic recording medium sheet 2 , and that at least a portion of at least one of said nonwoven fabric layers 5a, 5b corresponding to said magnetic recording medium sheet 2 is substantially and uniformly impregnated with lubricating oil. 2. A medium according to claim 1, characterized in that a case 7 is provided for housing said magnetic recording medium sheet and said nonwoven fabric layers, and said nonwoven fabric layers 5a, 5b are adhered to inner surfaces of said case 7 . 3. A medium according to claim 1, characterized in that said magnetic recording medium sheet 2 is formed of a thin film having said magnetic recording layer made of a magnetic metal material. 4. A medium according to claim 1, characterized in that said magnetic recording layer of said magnetic recording medium sheet 2 is formed by coating with a particulate magnetic material. 5. A medium according to claim 1, characterized in that said magnetic recording medium sheet 2 consists of a flexible magnetic recording medium material. 6. A medium according to claim 1, characterized in that said magnetic recording medium sheet 2 consists of a non flexible magnetic recording medium material. 7. A method for manufacturing a magnetic recording medium according to claim 1, characterized by including a first step of impregnating said nonwoven fabric layer 5a or 5b , arranged to face at least one surface of said magnetic recording medium, with a lubricating oil solution diluted with a solvent a second step of drying said nonwoven fabric layer 5a or 5b which is impregnated with the lubricating oil solution so as to remove at least a portion of the solvent of the lubricating oil solution and a third step of providing said nonwoven fabric layer 5a or 5b , subjected to the second step, on said magnetic recording medium sheet. 8. A method according to claim 7, characterized in that the lubricating oil solution in the first step is obtained by diluting a fluorine based lubricating oil with a fluorine based solvent. 9. A method according to claim 8, characterized in that a concentration of the lubricating oil solution falls within the range between 0.005 and 0.5 by volume. 10. A method according to claim 9, characterized in that the concentration of the lubricating oil solution falls within the range between 0.05 and 0.1 by volume. 11. A method according to claim 7, characterized in that in the first step, said nonwoven fabric layer 5a or 5b is dipped in the lubricating oil solution so as to impregnate said nonwoven fabric layer with the lubricating oil solution. 12. A method according to claim 7, characterized in that in the first step, the lubricating oil solution is sprayed on said nonwoven fabric layer 5a or 5b so as to impregnate said nonwoven fabric layer with the lubricating oil solution. 13. A method according to claim 7, characterized in that in the first step, the lubricating oil solution is coated on said nonwoven fabric layer 5a or 5b so as to impregnate said nonwoven fabric layer with the lubricating oil solution. 14. A method according to claim 7, characterized in that in the second step, said nonwoven fabric layer 5a or 5b which is impregnated with the lubricating oil solution is dried by drying means. 15. A method according to claim 7, characterized in that in the second step, said nonwoven fabric layer 5a or 5b which is impregnated with the lubricating oil solution is dried naturally. 16. A method according to claim 7, characterized in that said magnetic recording medium further comprises a case 7 for housing said magnetic recording medium sheet and said nonwoven fabric layers 5a, 5b , and that in the third step, said nonwoven fabric layers 5a, 5b , subjected to the second step are adhered to the inner surfaces of said case 7 so as to house said magnetic recording medium sheet in said case.

## Description
Magnetic recording medium and me hod for manufacturing the same The present invention relates to a magnetic recording medium for magnetic recording reproduction and to a method for manufacturing a magnetic recording medium in which proper surface lubrication of a recording medium sheet is realized. Due to recent developments in data processing technique, the demand for a memory device with a large data storage capacity has greatly increased. Moreover, demand has arisen for a large capacity magnetic recording medium such as a hard disk or a floppy disk. In one method proposed to realize a large capacity magnetic recording medium, the magnetic recording layer of a magnetic recording medium sheet comprises a thin magnetic metal film suitable for high density recording, i.e., a thin film made of metals such as Co Cr. Some important problems, however, must be resolved in order to realize a magnetic recording medium using a thin magnetic metal film. One such problem involves the performance of surface lubrication, as surface lubrication is an important factor in improving reliability and durability of the recording medium. In a hard disk device, a recording head and a recording medium sheet, i.e., a magnetic disk, repeatedly make and break contact with each other in a stop start mode. In a floppy disk device, during a read write interval involving a magnetic disk as a recording medium sheet, a magnetic head is brought into contact with the magnetic disk. For this reason, if the surface of the magnetic disk is not appropriately lubricated, scratching occurs on the surface of the disk and the disk becomes worn, thus shortening the life of the disk and degrading performance. Needless to say, the surface lubrication process is important in another type of magnetic recording medium which uses a particulate medium as a recording medium material, or, for that matter, which uses a recording medium sheet of other than a disk shape. That is, unless the surface of a recording medium sheet is appropriately lubricated, regardless of its type, its life will be shortened, and its performance lowered. As one surface lubricating method, a spin coating method is known. In the spin coating method, the recording medium sheet is rotated at high speed, and lubricating oil is dripped at a central surface portion of the sheet as it is being rotated. Thus, lubricating oil is dispersed by centrifugal force, and the surface of the recording medium sheet is coated, at least partially, with the lubricating oil. As another surface lubricating method, an immersion coating method is known. In the immersion coating method, the recording medium sheet is dipped directly into lubricating oil. Thus, the lubricating oil is attached to and coated on the surface of the sheet. However, with both methods, the lubricating oil cannot be uniformly coated on the recording medium sheet. For this reason, it is difficult to maintain a constant gap in the order of submicrons between the recording medium sheet and the magnetic head, resulting in an unstable recording reproduction level. Furthermore, in the worst case, the recording medium sheet can become attached to the magnetic head due to nonuniform coating with lubricating oil. Of course, nonuniform coating of the lubricating oil may also damage and cause local wear of the recording medium sheet. Such phenomena cause damage to the magnetic head.When the head is damaged, the recording medium sheet incurs further damage, resulting in unstable recording reproduction operation. It is an object of the present invention to provide a magnetic recording medium and a method for manufacturing the same wherein a uniform and proper lubricating oil film can be applied to a magnetic recording medium sheet such that excellent lubrication between the magnetic recording medium sheet and a magnetic head is obtained to realize a satisfactory recording reproduction operation. According to the present invention, a magnetic recording medium comprises a magnetic recording medium sheet made of a sheet like magnetic recording medium material having at least a magnetic recording layer and a pair of nonwoven fabric layers disposed so as to both sandwich the magnetic recording medium sheet and to face the two surfaces of the sheet such that they protect it, at least a portion of at least one of the nonwoven fabric layers in contact with the magnetic recording medium sheet portion being substantially and uniformly pre impregnated with lubricating oil. According to the present invention, in a method for manufacturing a magnetic recording medium having the construction and the components described above, the nonwoven fabric layer is arranged on the magnetic recording medium sheet. This being the case, the amount of lubricating oil impregnating the nonwoven fabric layer must be sufficient to maintain an optimum gap between a magnetic head and the magnetic recording medium sheet. The present inventors experimentally confirmed that when a fluorine based lubricating oil was used as the lubricating oil, the nonwoven fabric layer was dipped in a lubricating oil solution of, preferably, a concentration of 0.5 to 0.005 by volume, obtained by diluting the lubricating oil with a fluorine solvent.The present invention is based upon this experimental result. In the conventional floppy disk, in order to preclude wear, nonwoven fabric is arranged on two surfaces of the magnetic recording medium sheet.According to the present invention, the same nonwoven fabric, a conventional nonwoven fabric, provided on the two surfaces of the magnetic recording medium sheet, is pre impregnated with lubricating oil. Since the magnetic recording medium sheet is in continuous contact with the nonwoven, oil impregnated fabric while being driven, a thin uniform lubricating oil film is formed between the magnetic head and the recording medium sheet, the film thickness of the lubricating oil being optimally controlled. In this case, a very thin oil film can be formed and maintained over a long period of time. Therefore, according to the present invention, a uniform and proper lubricating oil film can be formed on the magnetic recording medium sheet such that excellent lubrication between the magnetic recording medium sheet and the magnetic head is obtained to realize a satisfactory recording reproduction operation. This invention can be more fully understood from the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 1 is an exploded perspective view showing an arrangement of a magnetic recording medium according to an embodiment of the present invention Fig. 2 is a flow chart showing the main manufacturing steps of the embodiment and Fig. 3 is a graph showing the relationship between a concentration of a lubricating oil solution for impregnating a nonwoven fabric, and an average friction acting on the recording medium sheet arranged according to the present invention. Fig. 1 shows an arrangement of a magnetic recording medium according to an embodiment of the present invention. In this embodiment, the arranged magnetic recording medium is a floppy disk. A magnetic recording medium disk is arranged consisting of a double sided magnetic recording medium sheet. The disk 1 is constituted by a disk shaped sheet 2 in which thin Co Cr films are formed, as magnetic layers, by sputtering, on two surfaces of a disk like base made of a polymeric material film such as polyimide or polyester, and a hub 3 fixed at a central portion of the sheet 2 with a central hole being formed therein. An index hole 4 is also formed in the sheet 2. The disk 1 is housed in a case 7 in the state wherein two surfaces of the disk 1 are covered with nonwoven fabric layers 5a and 5b. The case 7 comprises two portions 7a and 7b. The nonwoven fabric layers 5a and 5b are arranged along the inner surface sides of the portions 7a and 7b of the case 7, respectively, and the disk 1 is housed in the case 7 so as to be sandwiched between the fabric layers 5a and 5b. Three openings, i.e., a head window 8a, a central window 9a and an index window 10a are formed in the first portion 7a of the case 7. Similarly, three openings, i.e., a head window 8b, a central window 9b and an index window 10b are formed in the second portion 7b of the case 7. The head windows 8a and 8b are formed so that a magnetic head not shown can be brought into contact with the disk 1.The central windows 9a and 9b are provided for inserting a member not shown for clamping the disk 1 therethrough. The index windows 10a and 10b are provided for externally detecting the index hole 4 formed in the disk 1. The nonwoven fabric layers 5a and 5b are made of, e.g., Kendall Diskette Liner 149 303 trade name available from KENDALL COMPANY , and are larger than the disk 1. Notches lla and llb are formed in the nonwoven fabric layers 5a and 5b in portions corresponding to the head windows 8a and 8b, and holes 12a and 12b are formed therein at positions corresponding to the central windows 9a and 9b. In addition, holes 13a and 13b are formed therein at positions corresponding to the index windows 10a and 10b. Fig. 2 schematically shows steps for arranging the nonwoven fabric layers 5a and 5b in the magnetic recording medium. A fluorine based lubricating oil e.g., nPERFLUOROPOLYETHER available from Montefluos is dissolved in a fluorine solvent in this case, the solvent is volatile, e.g., Fluorinert FC 77 , trade name available from 3M and diluted to a concentration of about 0.005 to 0.5 . A nonwoven fabric, before being layer formed, is dipped in the lubricating oil solution for about 2 minutes such that the nonwoven fabric is sufficiently impregnated with the solution.Thereafter, the nonwoven fabric is raised from the lubricating oil solution and is dried naturally for about 1 hour so as to remove the excess solvent.In this manner, the nonwoven fabric is uniformly impregnated with the lubricating oil, and almost all of the excess solvent removed. The nonwoven fabric is formed into nonwoven fabric layers 5a and 5b, having the shapes shown in Fig. 1, and the layers 5a and 5b are then arranged in the magnetic recording medium. The recording medium is assembled as follows. The nonwoven fabric layers 5a and 5b, which are impregnated with the lubricating oil and which are formed into a predetermined shape, are adhered to the inner surfaces of the portions 7a and 7b of the case 7.Specifically, portions of the nonwoven fabric layers 5a and 5b which are not in direct contact with the disk 1, e.g., edge portions thereof, are adhered to the case portions 7a and 7b, and the peripheral edges of the case portions 7a and 7b are adhered to each other so as to sandwich the disk 1 therebetween, thus forming the case 7. Before being housed in the case 7, however, the disk like sheet 2 must be formed, and the hub 3 mounted.The sheet 2 is obtained by forming a recording medium sheet into a disk shape, the recording medium sheet comprising thin Co Cr films as magnetic layers on two surfaces of a base comprised of a polymeric material.When, the case 7 is formed, as above, the disk 1 is housed therein such that, at the same time, the nonwoven, oil impregnated fabric layers Sa and 5b are arranged on the two surfaces of the disk 1. According to this embodiment, in the magnetic recording medium arranged and manufactured as described above, the recording medium disk 1 which is clamped at the hub 3 portion is rotated in use. The case 7 and the nonwoven fabric layers 5a and 5b arranged therein are not rotated. For this reason, the disk 1 is moved relative to the nonwoven fabric layers 5a and 5b in the state wherein the two surfaces of the disk 1 are in contact with the nonwoven fabric layers 5a and 5b. The lubricating oil impregnated in the nonwoven fabric layers 5a and 5b is thus coated on the two surfaces of the disk 1 to form a thin oil film.Since the disk 1 is rotated while continuously contacting the nonwoven fabric layers Sa and 5b, the lubricating oil film coated on each surface of the disk 1 is sufficiently thin and uniform, providing good disk 1 lubrication. Furthermore, a gap between the disk 1 and the magnetic head becomes constant, thus stabilizing the reproduction output.Since the disk is coated with a very thin film of lubricating oil, unwanted attachment of the disk 1 to the head can be effectively prevented. Fig. 3 shows measurements of experimental results of a change in the average friction acting on the disk 1 when the concentration of the lubricating oil solution for dipping the nonwoven fabric layers 5a and 5b was varied. The experimental data was obtained in such a manner that friction of the magnetic head was detected by a load sensor when the magnetic head, supported by an air bearing, was brought into contact with the lower surface of the rotating disk 1. As can be seen from the experimental results, when the concentration of the lubricating oil solution falls within the range between 0.005 to 0.5 , the average friction is greatly decreased. That is, this embodiment is effective when the concentration of the lubricating oil solution falls within the range between 0.005 and 0.5 . Furthermore, when the concentration of the lubricating oil solution is too low, an absolute amount of the oil impregnated in the nonwoven fabric is decreased. For this reason, in order to stably supply the lubricating oil for a long period of time, it is important that concentration of the lubricating oil solution not be too low. Therefore, the optimum range of concentration of the lubricating oil solution is between 0.05 and 0.1 , within which the average friction is smallest and the concentration not too low. Note that the present invention is not limited to the magnetic recording medium using the magnetic recording medium material of thin magnetic metal film described above. The present invention can also be applied to a magnetic recording medium using a magnetic recording medium material of a particulate type. In general, since protective nonwoven fabric is usually arranged as in the above embodiment, on two surfaces of a recording medium disk in a floppy disk medium, with only a few modifications and additional steps to conventional arrangements and manufacturing methods, the nonwoven fabric can be impregnated with lubricating oil. Though, in contrast, no nonwoven fabric is generally provided in a hard disk medium, with only a few modifications, nonwoven fabric preimpregnated with lubricating oil can be newly provided on two surfaces of a recording medium disk. When the present invention is applied to a singlesided recording medium, only one of the two nonwoven fabric layers used for protecting the two surfaces, i.e., the one corresponding to the recording surface, need be impregnated with the lubricating oil. Alternative methods for impregnating the nonwoven fabric with the lubricating oil solution include spraying the lubricating oil solution on to the nonwoven fabric, instead of dipping it in the lubricating oil solution, or coating the lubricating oil solution on the nonwoven fabric. As well, in the step of drying in order to remove at least a portion of the solvent of the lubricating oil solution form the nonwoven fabric, a positive drying means such as a heating means or blowing means can be used in place of natural drying.