# Cocoa powder.

## Abstract
The invention relates to an improved cocoa with colour coordinate L 16 or below, which has a simple polyhydroxyphenols content of at least 0.25 preferably at least 0.30 and to foodstuffs and semi finished products containing such improved cocoa.

## Claims
1. Improved cocoa with colour coordinate L 16 or below and a simple polyhydroxyphenols content of at least 0.25 .

## Description
The invention relates to improved cocoa, particularly to cocoa suitable for the manufacture of milk based beverages and milk based desserts, such as stabilized and sterilized chocolate flavoured milk, jellied chocolate flavoured desserts and chocolate flavoured ice cream. Cocoa or cocoa powder is obtained by grinding roasted, cleaned and deshelled cocoa beans to a paste, called cocoa mass or chocolate liquor, followed by extraction of part of the fat by pressing and finally milling the press cake. More often than not cocoa beans, or one of the intermediate products mentioned above, are processed as well, for example treated with a solution of a hydroxide or carbonate of sodium or potassium, with the object of obtaining a product with a less astringent and richer taste and a deeper and therefore more attractive colour. Natural process cocoa powder which is a current expression for cocoa powder that is not processed with alkali is characterized by a pronouncedly tart and astringent taste and a light colour, best described as tan to light brown. Slightly processed cocoa powders have a less tart and less astringent taste and show a light brown to red brown colour. Medium processed cocoa powders combine a rich and strong cocoa flavour with an intense red brown to red colour. It is also possible to manufacture intensely processed cocoa powders with a very intense red brown to deep red colour. The expressions slightly processed and intensely processed respectively as used here refer to the cocoa powder type, as assessed by the intensity of its colour. The characterization of cocoa powder colours as mentioned above is highly subjective. For an objective characterization, the colour can be specified by colour coordinates. A system frequently used, and also in the present application, has been developed by R.S. Hunter. In this system three colour coordinates are determined in a standardized way, viz. a coordinate L indicating the colour brightness on a scale from black L 0 to white L 100 , a coordinate a indicating the redness and a coordinate b indicating the yellowness. In particular, the coordinate L is characteristic for the degree of processing of cocoa powders. As an example, for the various types of cocoa powder the following limits for the L coordinate are found, if a suspension of the cocoa powder jellified with agar is measured with a Hunterlab Digital Color Difference meter, type D25D2A. The method for performing the above measurements is as follows Weigh 1.2 g of the cocoa powder into a 100 ml beaker and add 5 ml of water at 60 C. Stir until a homogeneous paste is obtained. Add 45 g of a freshly prepared 2.5 agar solution, kept at 50 C and mix rapidly until the mixture is homogeneous. Then pour the agar suspension as quickly as possible into a Petri dish which is lying exactly level and allow to cool for 15 minutes. Remove the agar slab thus obtained from the Petri dish by means of a broad spatula and place it on a white tile. Bring the tile with the slab into the calibrated Hunterlab Digital Color Difference Meter and press the agar slab lightly against the measuring orifice, without protrusion of the surface in the apparatus. Read the L , a and b values. For numerous industrial applications the use of intensely coloured cocoa powders, e.g., the types which have been described as intensely processed, with an L coordinate of 16 at the maximum, has proved to be very advantageous. Due to their rich taste and high colouring capacity these types are economical they also enable the manufacture of finished products with an attractive deep chocolate colour. A specific intensely processed cocoa powder of this type has been described in EP 82200147 published under number 0066304 , said cocoa powder combines an intense colour L value less than 16 with a pH of 7.5 or less and a ratio pH alkalinity of the ash below 0.046 while not more or other acid radicals are present than those by nature present in fermented cocoa this cocoa powder does not show the normal disadvantages of the usual intensely processed cocoa powders which are treated with large amounts of alkali, such as the worse alkaline or salty taste and flavour and is very suitable for use in all kinds of cocoa containing products for which an intense colour is desirable. However, if one uses all of these types for the industrial preparation of dairy products, such as stabilized and sterilized chocolate flavoured milk or chocolate desserts, specific drawbacks are met. The main ingredients for chocolate flavoured milk are milk which is here understood to include partly or wholly skimmed milk , sugar and cocoa. Only part of the cocoa dissolves in the liquid. The remaining solid particles have a density which is considerably greater than that of the liquid, resulting, if no special measures are taken, in rapid settling of the cocoa particles. As consumers prefer a homogeneous beverage, manufacturers add a stabilizing agent, viz. a small quantity of a vegetable hydrocolloid, normally carrageenan. In order to obtain a long shelf life, the mixture is sterilized and then bottled. After filling and closing, the bottles and their contents are sterilized again. It is also possible to fill paperboard or plastic containers aseptically with the sterilized chocolate flavoured milk. In practice thus manufactured chocolate flavoured milk can exhibit visual quality defects, often described as physical curdling or marbling . These phenomena are particularly disadvantageous as they often appear only after a few days and because the consumer associates them wrongly with bacteriological deterioration. From this it follows that the chocolate flavoured milk becomes unsalable only after its delivery to the retailers. Even in non transparent packaging the above mentioned quality defects are undesirable as they are attended with concentration variations of the cocoa component, resulting in irregularities as to colour and taste of the chocolate flavoured milk when served. The above mentioned visual quality defects may result from the composition or the properties of the milk used and or the nature of the stabilizer, be it or not in relationship with processing conditions. It is well known that also the type of the cocoa used can be responsible for the occurrence of visual quality defects. In particular the intensely processed types of cocoa powder described above can cause marbling or curdling phenomena. In this case the chance of this occurring is so great that these types of cocoa powder are not recommended for the manufacture of stabilized and sterilized chocolate flavoured milk, in spite of their attractive organoleptic properties. It has been tried to find a criterium for the suitability of cocoa powders for dairy applications. Dr. G. Andersen Milchwissenschaft From these laboratory experiments it becomes evident that the tannin content of the cocoa powder is an incorrect criterium for the suitability of cocoa powder from the point of view of the occurrence of visual defects in chocolate flavoured milk. The natural process cocoa is unsuitable for colour and flavour reasons, but also because it increases the tendency of milk proteins to coagulate under the influence of sterilization, due to its pH reducing properties. In chocolate flavoured desserts of the blancmange type the firmness and spoonability are important quality characteristics. As a yardstick for these properties serves the gel strength as measured with a Stevens LFRA Analyzer with a standard plunger mounted. Blancmange of good quality has a gel strength of at least 36 g plunger speed 1 mm.sec 1 and plunger displacement 10 mm . However, medium and intensely processed cocoa types, which colour and tastewise would be advantageous to the dairy products in question, affect the above quality characteristics, as is demonstrated by the following tests. Chocolate blancmange was prepared using the various types of cocoa powder and according to the following recipe Sugar, corn starch, cocoa powder and carrageenan were carefully mixed and added to the milk. The mixture was heated to 90 C while stirring and was kept at this temperature for 15 minutes. Then it was cooled to 40 C under continued stirring and poured into bowl shaped cups measuring 300 ml, having an upper diameter of 11.5 cm and a flat bottom with diameter 5.5 cm. The height of the blancmange layer in the cups was 4.0 cm. After keeping them at 5 C during a night the jellified blancmange desserts were turned on a level plate and the gel strength, being a measure for the visco elastic properties, was immediately measured by means of the Stevens LFRA Analyzer with the standard plunger mounted. The results were as follows By these tests it is demonstrated that it is not possible to obtain the preferred dark chocolate colour of the blancmange by using the known medium to intensely processed cocoa types without impairing the gel strength. It is an objective of the invention to provide cocoa which, although in colour corresponding with intensely processed types of cocoa powder does not contrary to the known cocoa powders of this type give rise to visual defects in chocolate flavoured milk prepared with it or only to a considerably less degree, and or blancmange type. The invention is further illustrated with the help of the following examples, to which the invention is not limited, however. Chocolate flavoured milk was prepared according to the following recipe Cocoa powder A was a cocoa powder according to the invention, with fat content 10.9 , moisture content 4.3 , pH 7.6 measured in 10 suspension in boiling water, cooled down to ambient temperature , L value 14.7 and simple polyhydroxyphenols content 0.31 . The cocoa powder, sugar and stabilizing agent were carefully mixed and added to the milk. The mixture was heated to 75 C while stirring and homogenized at this temperature and a pressure of 167 bar using a Rannie homogenizer. After bottling, the bottles were closed with a crown cap and sterilized in a Stock Rotorzwerg sterilizing autoclave at a temperature of the heating medium of 120 C pressure 1.5 bar during 15 minutes. After cooling down to 20 C the chocolate flavoured milk in the bottles was examined on its visual aspects and kept at room temperature. After three and ten days standing the appearance was examined again. The chocolate flavoured milk did not shown any marbling or curdling. In comparison a test was performed according to the following example Chocolate flavoured milk was prepared exactly according to the recipe and method described in Example I, however, with cocoa powder B having the following analysis fat content 10.7 , moisture content 4.5 , pH, measured as described in Example I, 7.9, L coordinate 15.0, simple polyhydroxyphenols content 0.22 . The chocolate flavoured milk, prepared with cocoa powder B showed a pronounced curdling immediately after sterilization and cooling to 20 C. On shaking the bottles this curdling disappeared for a short time only and after three and ten days standing, marbling to a heavy degree was visible. The liquid was divided into a light coloured upper layer with slight curdling and a dark coloured heavily marbled bottom layer. After these tests, it was checked whether the pH difference, existing between the cocoa powder A and B , could possibly influence the appearance of the chocolate flavoured milk, as described in the examples I and II. To this end, potassium carbonate was added to cocoa powder A until a pH of 7.9 being the pH of B was obtained, if measured according to the method described in Example I, and citric acid was added to cocoa powder B to obtain a pH of 7.6 the pH of A . The so obtained cocoa powders, designated as A 7.9 and B 7.6 respectively, served to prepare chocolate flavoured milk according to the recipe and method as described in Example I. The results as regards the appearance of the chocolate flavoured milk, when examined after standing three and ten days were as follows The effect of the use of a cocoa powder of the invention on the gel strength of chocolate blancmange made with it becomes evident from the following examples Chocolate blancmange was prepared according to the following recipe Sugar, corn starch, cocoa powder and carrageenan were carefully mixed and added to the milk. The mixture was heated to 90 C while stirring and kept at this temperature for 15 minutes, then cooled to 40 C under continued stirring and poured into bowl shaped cups measuring 300 ml, having an upper diameter of 11.5 cm and a flat bottom with diameter 5.5 cm. The height of the blancmange layer in the cups was 4.0 cm. After keeping them at 5 C during the night the jellified blancmange desserts were turned on a level plate and the gel strength was immediately measured. This amounted to 37.9 g. Cocoa powder A was from the same sample as used in Example I. In comparison also a chocolate blancmange was prepared with cocoa powder B , corresponding to the cocoa powder that was used in Example II, in the same way and following the same recipe as in Example V. The gel strength of this blancmange amounted to 31.7 g, when measured under the same conditions as in Example V. The cocoa of the invention can be obtained by submitting cocoa beans or broken and deshelled cocoa beans cocoa nibs to processing, which on the one hand results in a cocoa of the intense colour as described on the other hand it is effectuated in such a way as to preserve the simple polyhydroxyphenols content at the desired level. To this end it is preferred to treat whole deshelled cocoa beans or a coarse fraction of cocoa nibs with a hot concentrated alkaline processing liquid under such conditions that the processing liquid does not penetrate completely into the beans or nibs. Preferably the conditions are so adjusted that about 75 to 125 ml of processing liquid of an alkali content equivalent to 24 by weight of potassium carbonate are absorbed per kg of deshelled cocoa beans or nibs. If a processing liquid of a different concentration is used the limits are to be adapted accordingly. After they have been subjected to the processing liquid, the beans or nibs are dried, preferably about 4 15 minutes after they were subjected to the processing liquid. The processing liquid can be a solution of usual alkalis, like NaOH, KOH, Na₂CO₃, K₂CO₃. Preferably the processing liquid has a concentration equivalent to at least 20 by weight K₂CO₃. The following example illustrates a suitable process for the manufacture of the cocoa of the invention. The methods to obtain the cocoa of the invention are by no means limited to this example, however. Deshelled and broken cocoa kernels which did not pass a sieve with a size of mesh of 4 mm were sprayed on a stainless steel conveyor belt with a hot concentrated processing liquid consisting of 24 by weight potassium carbonate solution. The conveyor speed was adjusted at 0.5 m.min 1 and the volume of processing liquid which was sprayed per unity of time was adjusted at 50 ml.min 1 , resulting in the absorption of 100 ml processing liquid per kg deshelled and broken cocoa kernels. At a three meters distance from the moistening zone the cocoa kernels were dried by means of infrared radiation interval beteen moistening and drying 6 minutes . The processed and dried cocoa kernels were roasted in a laboratory over at 130 C for 30 minutes ground coarsely by means of an Alpine disc and pin mill and then in a Wiener ball mill. Part of the fat of the cocoa mass obtained was extracted by means of a hydraulic laboratory press type L 30, Research and Industrial Instruments Company, England and the resulting cocoa cake was pulverized in a Retsch laboratory centrifugal mill. The resulting cocoa powder had a fat content of 13.7 , a moisture content of 3.9 , a pH when measured in 10 water suspension of 7.8 and a simple polyhydroxyphenols content of 0.30 . The L value, when measured in an agar jellified suspension, amounted to 15.2. The cocoa powder was used to prepare chocolate flavoured milk as described in Example I. The sterilized finished product did not present any curdling phenomena. A chocolate blancmange, which was prepared with this cocoa powder according to the recipe of Example V had a gel strength of 38.1 g. The result of the process described here can be modified as a matter of fact the interval between moistening with the processing liquid and drying determines the colour on the one hand and the simple polyhydroxyphenols content of the cocoa on the other. Hence it may be necessary, depending on the properties of the cocoa beans used, the capacity of the infrared radiators, the concentration of the processing liquid, etc., to adjust the time interval between moistening and drying. The optimum can be found in a simple way by measuring the colour coordinates of the resulting cocoa powder and determining its simple polyhydroxyphenols content as indicated above.