# Mechanism for generating reciprocal rotary motion.

## Abstract
A compact mechanism is provided for converting angu lar movement of a crank arm 2 to be driven by a prime mover into reciprocal rotary motion of an output shaft 5 . The free end of the crank arm 2 is pivotally connected to one end of a rack 4 . A pinion 6 fixedly mounted on the output shaft 5 is meshingly engaged with said rack 4 . A rocking arm 8 is mounted on said output shaft 5 for rotation therewith so that the other end thereof having a flange 9 or roller may slide along the back surface of said rack 4 . This mechanism may generate smooth and stable torque at the output shaft 5 .

## Claims
Claims 1. A mechanism comprising a crank journal to be driven in one direction, a crank arm fixed to said journal to rotate therewith, characterised by a rack 4 pivotally connected at one end thereof to a free end of said crank arm 2 and a pinion 6 meshingly engaged with said rack 4 and having an output shaft 5 connected thereto. 2. A mechanism according to Claim 1, further characterised by a rocking arm 8 having one end engaged on said output shaft 5 for rotation therewith, the other end thereof being adapted to guide said rack 4 between itself and said pinion 6 . 3. A mechanism according to Claim 2, characterised in that said other end of said rocking arm 8 has a flange 9 operable to engage and slide along a back surface of said rack 4 and to prevent disengagement of the pinion 6 from the rack 4 . 4. A mechanism according to Claim 2, characterised in that said other end of said rocking arm 8 has a roller thereon to rotatingly slide along a back surface of said rack 4 and to prevent disengagement of the pinion 6 from the rack 4 . 5. A wire saw comprising three rollers arranged with their axes disposed in parallel at the apices of an equi lateral triangle, a sawing wire extending from a feed reel to a take up reel and passing several times around said rollers, characterised in that one of said rollers R1 is driven by the output shaft 5 of a mechanism according to any one of claims 1 to 4.

## Description
MECHANISM FOR GENERATING RECIPROCAL ROTARY MOTIONThis invention relates generally to a mechanism for generating reciprocal rotary motion, and more particularly to such a mechanism for converting a rotational motion in one direction, of a crank arm driven by a prime mover, to reciprocal rotary motion.The mechanism for generating reciprocal rotary motion is necessitated in various mechanical devices. As one example, a wire saw may be taken into consideration. As well known to those skilled in the art, a wire saw in general comprises a feeding reel, a take up reel, a set of three guide rollers arranged in parallel with one another and in such a way that central axes thereof respectively lie on the three apices of an equilateral triangle in a plane transverse to said axes, and a single wire extending from said feeding reel, passing several times around said rollers to form a sawing wire array, and wound up by said take up reel. By reciprocally moving said sawing wire array formed at a plane of the third or base side of said equilateral triangle, a work piece engaged with said wire array is cut into the corresponding number of pieces by said reciprocatingly moving wire array in the presence of abrasive particles. The shaft for directly or indirectly driving any of said rollers must be reciprocatingly rotated.A typical and well known crank mechanism for generating such reciprocal rotary motion comprises a crank journal driven in any one direction by a prime mover, a crank arm fixed on said journal to rotate therewith, a connecting rod having one end thereof pivotally connected to the free end of said crank arm, a rack having one end pivotally connected to the other end of said connecting rod and guided so as to reciprocally move in a straight line, and a pinion meshingly engaged with said rack. Such mechanism is, however, disadvantageous in that the distance between said crank journal and an output shaft of said pinion is inevitably relatively long and consequently necessitates a relatively large space.An improved known mechanism for avoiding such defect has one end of a rocking arm pivotally connected to the other end of said connecting rod. Said rocking arm is fixed with an output shaft for reciprocal rotary motion. This mechanism is, however, disadvantageous in that there is inevitably caused torque fluctuation at the output shaft which adversely affects for instance tne sawing wire movement for cutting, which is explained in more detail later with reference to the accompanying drawings.An object of the invention is to provide a compact mechanism for converting a rotational motion in one direction of a crank arm driven by a prime mover to reciprocal rotary motion whilst eliminating torque fluctuation in such reciprocal rotary motion of the output shaft.The invention provides a mechanism comprising a crank journal to be driven in one direction, a crank arm fixed to said crank journal to rotate therewith, a rack pivotally connected at one end thereof to a free end of said crank arm, and a pinion meshingly engaged with said rack and having an output shaft connected thereto.The invention is now explained in more detail with reference to an embodiment illustrated in the accompanying drawings in which Fig. 1 is a schematic side view of the typical known mechanism for converting a rotational motion to reciprocal rotary motion.Fig. 2 is a similar view of the known improved mechanism,Fig. 3 is a sketch for explaining undesirable torque fluctuation caused by the mechanism of Fig. 2,Fig. 4 is a schematic side view of the mechanism according to the invention,Fig. 5 is a sketch for explaining operation of the mechanism of the invention, andFig. 6 is a perspective sketch of a wire saw arrangement to which the mechanism of the invention is applied.In Fig. 1, the typical mechanism in public knowledge has a crank journal A driven by a prime mover not shown, on which a crank arm B is fixed so as to angularly move in the direction shown by an arrow. One end of a connecting rodD is pivotally connected to the free end of the crank armB by means of a crank pin C. The other end of said connecting rod D is pivotally connected to one end of a rack E so as to guidedly and reciprocally move the latter as shown by an arrow. A pinion G, meshingly engaged with said rack E, has an output shaft F fixed therewith so as to be reciprocally angularly moved as shown by an arrow. It will be readily appreciated that such mechanism requires a fairly large space. In Fig. 2, the known improvement has one end of a rocking arm H pivotally connected to the other end of the connecting rod D so as to rockingly move as shown by an arrow. Thus, the output shaft F fixed at the other end of said rocking arm H is reciprocally rotated.This mechanism is more compact than that as illustrated in Fig. 1 but not satisfactory as regards torque fluctuation at the output shaft F, as referred to above, which shall be explained with reference to Fig. 3.The torque applied by the crank arm B on the output shaft F is determined by the length of the perpendicular line from the axis of the output shaft F to the line of the connecting rod D, which is displaced depending on the angular movement of the crank arm B. When the pivoted end of the crank arm B lies on a point bl and the pivoted end of the rocking arm H lies on a point hl, said perpendicular line is to be represented by tl in saidFig. 3. When the crank arm B is angularly moved so that said pivoted end thereof lies on a point b2 and said pivoted end of said rocking arm H lies on a point h2, said perpendicular line is represented by t2, and when said ends are moved to points b3 and h3 respectively, the perpendicular line is represented by t3. As can be seen, the lengths of the perpendicular line segments tl, t2 and t3 differ considerably. Thus, the torque correspondingly fluctuates.Said fluctuation is made larger, as the angle of the angular movement of the rocking arm H is made larger, readily seen from the sketch of Fig. 3.Now with reference to Fig. 4, the arrangement of the invention is now explained. On a crank journal 1 driven by a prime mover not shown , there is fixedly mounted a crank arm 2 which is pivotedly connected at the free end thereof by a crank pin 3 to one end of a rack 4. On an output shaft 5 there is fixedly mounted a pinion 6 so as to meshingly engage with said rack 4. There is provided a guide member 7 having an arm 8 which is mounted on said output shaft 5 for angular motion therewith while the outer end has a flange 9 for guiding said rack 4 between the inner side thereof and the toothed section of the pinion 6 so as to ensure meshing engagement of the rack 4 with the pinion 6.As the crank arm 2 is rotated, the rack 4 is not only moved in the longitudinal direction but also inclined relative to the pinion 6. Depending on said inclined motion or displacement of the rack 4, said guide flange 9 slides along the rack 4 on the back surface thereof so as to always occupy the position on the rack 4 where the perpendicular line drawn from the centre of the output shaft 5 crosses with the rack 4. It is preferable to supply lubricant oil under pressure to a recess not shown formed in the bottom of said flange 9 so as to press the rack onto the pinion 6 in addition to providing lubrication between said flange 9 and the rack 4. Said flange 9 may be substituted by a roller mounted on said arm 8 so as to rotatingly slide along the rack 4 on the back surface thereof, and pressing the rack onto the pinion 6 by means of a spring means not shown or by forming said roller of an elastomer material. Owing to such pressing, backlash between the rack 4 and the pinion 6 as well as impact generated at the rack turning at the limit points is eliminated.In Fig. 5, when the pivoted end of the crank arm 2 lies on positions 21, 22, 23 and 3 the rack 4 is in positions represented by 41 42 43 and 44 respectively.Three intersecting points of the perpendicular line with said rack 4 are shown as the positions 412 42 44 and 43 in Fig. 5. When the crank arm 2 is rotated in the clockwise direction from 21 to 22, the crank rack 4 is pushed to the right in Fig. 5 so as to rotate the pinion 6 and consequently the output shaft 5 in the clockwise direction, but in the course of the further angular movement of the crank arm 2 from 22 to 24, said crank rack 4 is pulled to the left in said figure so as to rotate the output shaft 5 in the counter clockwise direction. Further angular movement of the crank arm 2 is to cause rotary motion of the output shaft 5 again in the clockwise direction.Wherever the crank arm 2 is positioned in the angular movement thereof, the length of the perpendicular line segment remains constant so as to cause no torque fluctuation on the pinion 6, despite the compactness of this mechanism.With reference to Fig. 6 a wire saw is shown, to which the mechanism according to the invention may be preferably applied. As referred to above, there are three rollers R1, R2 and R3 so arranged in parallel with one another as to form an equilateral triangle with the axes thereof, and mounted on the machine frame S for rotation. Sawing wire W extends from a feed reel not shown through a guide roller T1 to pass around said rollers several times six times in the figure so as to form the sawing wire array WS and then is wound up by a take up reel not shown via a guide roller T2. A work piece U to be cut into a number of pieces seven pieces in the figure is set under the wire array WL. When said sawing wire array WS is reciprocally moved in the longitudinal direction with relatively pressing said work piece toward said wire array WN in the presence of abrasive particles, said work piece U is cut. In order to drive said wire array for reciprocal motion, one of the rollers R1, R2, R3, is driven by the output shaft 5 of the mechanism according to the invention.As will be readily appreciated from the above, if said roller E , for example, is driven by the output shaft such as F in the mechanism illustrated in Fig. 2, the correct cutting can not be attained.The compact mechanism according to the invention can be applied to various devices necessitating stable torque.