# Improvements in tungsten halogen incandescent lamps.

## Abstract
A tungsten halogen incandescent lamp envelope is made by heating and drawing down the diameter of tubular glass material while the material is being spun. This results in the envelope having a smoothly curved tapered end producing a light intensity distribution wherein the peak value lies in the range of 40 to 50 , 15 to 20 of the average value. The method is particularly suitable for mass producing miniature lamps for the auto industry.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A tungsten halogen incandescent lamp comprising a hard glass envelope, the envelope including a body portion having a tip at one end and a seal portion at the other end, wherein the tip end comprises a smoothly curved taper to provide a light intensity distribution having peak values within the range of plus 40 to 50 to minus 15 to 202 of the average value. 2. A tungsten halogen incandescent lamp according to Claim 1 wherein the lamp is an auto lamp. 3. A tungsten halogen incandescent lamp according to Claim 1 wherein the halogen includes bromine. 11. A method of producing a tungsten halogen incandescent lamp comprising the steps of heating tubular glass material and reducing the diameter of the tubular material by drawing whilst the tubular material is being spun to produce a smoothly tapered conical tip. 5. A method according to Claim 9 wherein the tubular material is spun at about 300 revolutions per minute. 6. A method according to Claim 11 wherein the tubular material is heated to about 10500C. 7. A method according to Claim 4 including the step of testing the lamp to ensure that the peak values of light intensity lie within the range of 40 to 50 and 15 to 20 of the average light intensity.

## Description
IMPROVEMENTS IN TUNGSTEN HALOGEN INCANDESCENT LAMPS This invention relates to tungsten halogen incandescent lamps, more particularly but not exclusively to those lamps known as miniature glass halogen lamps and used, for example, in such applications as torches and miners lamps for general illumination. Miniature glass halogen lamps which comprise an envelope of hard glass such as aluminosilicate or borosilicate and a fill including a rare gas such as krypton or xenon and a halogen, for example bromine, are known. They include a tungsten filament and operate on the tungsten halogen cycle. The invention, however, is generally applicable to incandescent lamps which incorporate a halogen whether or not the tungsten halogen cycle is fully operative and term tungsten halogen incandescent lamp should be so construed. Recently it has been proposed to provide miniature glass halogen lamps for use as auto lamps such as, stop and tail lights, side lights and indicator lights. However it has been found that the light distribution produced from a fitting comprising a known glass halogen lamp and a front lens only, that is, no renector, does not comply with the required specification. According to the present invention there is provided a tungsten halogen incandescent lamp comprising a hard glass envelope, the envelope including a body portion having a tip at one end and a seal portion at the other end, wherein the tip end comprises a smoothly curved taper to provide a light intensity distribution having peak values within the range of plus 110 to 50S to minus 15 to 20 of the average value. According to a further aspect of the invention there is provided a method of producing a tungsten halogen incandescent lamp comprising the steps of heating tubular glass material and reducing the diameter of the tubular material by drawing whilst the tubular material is being spun to produce a smoothly tapered conical end. In a preferred embodiment of the invention the tip end is produced by heating the glass envelope and drawing down the softened glass whilst it is being spun so that a smoothly curved conical tapering end is produced. On testing this tapered tip end it was found the light distribution coming therefrom was much more uniform and consequently was more suitable for the required beam configuration for auto lights. The invention will now be described by way of example only and with reference to the accompanying figures wherein Figure 1 is an illustration of a known type of miniature glass halogen lamp, Figure 2 is a graph of intensity distribution in the upper hemisphere through a plane perpendicular to the filament axis of lamp of Figure 1, Figure 3 is a tungsten halogen incandescent lamp in accordance with the present invention, Figure 4 is a graph of intensity in the upper hemisphere through a plane perpendioular to the filament axis of the lamp of Figure 3. In Figure 1, reference numeral 10 illustrates a known type of miniature tungsten halogen incandescent lamp. This comprises a tubular envelope of hard glass such as, for example aluminosilicate or borosilicate glass having a body portion 11, a tip off portion 12 and a seal portion 13 which usually comprises a pinch seal 14. Sealed within the pinch seal 14 are molybdenum leads 15 joined to nickel alloy outer leads 16. The molybdenum leads 15 support a tungsten filament 17 within the envelope which also includes a rare gas such as krypton or xenon as well as a halogen. It will be especially noted that body portion 11 has a squared off end portion 18 providing a so called flat end . In some auto lamp applications the light requires to be thrown forward through end portion 18 onto a lens whereas in torches and miners lamps used for general illumination the light utilised is the reflected light which emanates through body portion 11. On testing, the light coming through flat end 18 had a distribution shown in Figure 2, wherein the peaks and troughs resulted in a beam pattern comprising concentric rings of varying intensity. Such a distribution is unsuitable for auto lamp applications mentioned above. In Figure 3, reference numeral 20 illustrates a miniature tungsten halogen incandescent lamp in accordance with the present invention. This comprises a tubular envelope of hard glass, such as, for example, aluminosilicate or borosilicate glass having a body portion 21, a tip off portion 22 and a seal portion 23 which usually comprises a pinch seal 24. Sealed, within the pinch seal 24 are molybdenum leads 25 joined to nickel alloy outer leads 26. The molybdenum leads 25 support tungsten filament 27 within the envelope which also includes a rare gas such as krypton or xenon and a halogen, for example, bromine. In accordance with the present invention it will be noted that the flat end 18 of the lamp of Figure 1 has been dispensed with and instead the tip off end tapers smoothly from body portion 21 to the tip 22.There is no well defined shoulder portion but a smoothly curved transition in the area 28. On applying a standard light intensity distribution test testing a lamp with this end configuration it was found to produce the intensity distribution shown in Figure 4 wherein the peak value is in the range 40 to 50 15 to 202 of the average value. This only has two small peaks as shown and provides a much more uniform beam pattern. We have found that it is possible to provide the desired end configuration by heating the mid portion of a short length of suitable tubular glass material to a temperature of around 0 1050 C then reducing the tube diameter by draving whilst the tube is being spun at about 300 RPM until the inside diameter before tip off is between O.5mm and l.0mm. This provides a smooth curved conical taper as shown inFigure 3. This makes the method eminently suitable for mass production methods required in producing lamps for the auto industry . It is envisaged lamps according to the present invention will range from ZW to 20W. In a 5w lamp in accordance with the invention, the tubular envelope material comprise 7 to 8 mm outside diameter, lead wire diameter nickel of 0.4 mm, lead wire diameter molybdenum of 0.3mm and the filament was a single coil type. The envelope contained a fill of 8 atmospheres of krypton at NTP and a halogen comprising a liquid dose of 25 micro gms of bromine.