# Zeolite beta preparation

## Claims
Verfahren zur Herstellung von Zeolith β, bei dem eine Reaktionsmischung,die Quellen von Natrium, Aluminium, Tetraethylammonium TEA , Silicium und Wasser, wobei das Molverhältnis ausgedrückt als Oxid SiO

## Description
This invention relates to zeolite beta, a synthetic aluminosilicate zeolite, and in particular to a simplifiedprocess for its preparation. Zeolite beta is described and claimed in US 3 308 069, reissued as Re 28341 where it is described asa crystalline synthetic material whose composition has been calculated to be Zeolite beta is also described the form of a crystalline synthetic material which has catalytic propertieshaving the composition Zeolite beta is described as being formed by crystallization from a reaction mixture containing thetetraethylammonium ion. Upon heating of the product, at a temperature in the approximate range of 200 930 C or higher, the tetraethylammonium ion undergoes degradation to the hydrogen ion. Furthermore, inthis case the value of w in the formula may be essentially O. The zeolite beta is described as being prepared from reaction mixtures containing tetraethylammoniumhydroxide as the alkali and more specifically by heating in aqueous solution a mixture of the oxides or ofmaterials whose chemical compositions can be completely represented as mixtures of the oxides Na In the prior art synthesis of zeolite beta, the composition of the reaction mixture is said to be critical.Specifically, the presence of tetraethylammonium ions in such mixture is described as essential for theproduction of zeolite beta. In the absence of such ions or in the presence of quaternary ammonium ionsother than tetraethyl, no zeolite beta was obtained. However, TEA hydroxide or other sources of the TEA cation are relatively much more expensive thanthe other components of the reaction mixture, and the use of large amounts of this material results in zeolitebeta being an expensive material to manufacture on a large scale.Moreover, the decomposition of TEAhydroxide or other sources of TEA during the manufacture of zeolite beta generates a high pressure buildupif large amounts of the TEA source have to be used. This imposes more rigid requirements on theequipment in which zeolite beta is manufactured on a large scale and so increasing the price of zeolite betaeven more. Since zeolite beta may be useful in catalytic and adsorbent end use where large charges of thezeolite are required its high cost is a serious disadvantage for using the zeolite in such processes. Moreover, as described hereinbefore the prior art processes typically use a two solution synthesis a firstaqueous solution of the silica source and alumina source being reacted with an aqueous solution of TEAhydroxide. The prior art process gives low yields of zeolite beta and is very expensive because of the largeamounts of TEA need. It has now surprisingly been found that zeolite beta may be prepared by a process enabling significantreductions in the amounts of the TEA cation and water to be made and or increased yields. The inventionfurther provides a simplified preparation in which a one solution synthesis is employed with benefits in terms of increased yield and or reduced autoclave sizefor its preparation. Accordingly this invention provides a process for thepreparation of zeolite beta, in which a reaction mixturecomprising sources of sodium, aluminium,tetraethylammonium TEA , silicon and water, utilisingthe molar ratio expressed as oxide SiO The present invention is particularly suitable for smallscale preparations. The preferred reaction mixture for use in the inventionwhether using the dry powder mixture or not comprises thecomponents in the following molar ratios Preferably when using the mixed powder approach, this is prepared in the first step of the process ofthe invention so that the components are present in the following molar ratios According to the invention no substantial amount of water, is introduced at this point. It is not necessaryfor the powdered sources to be anhydrous and it is not intended to exclude small amounts of water thatmay be chemically or physically bonded to the powdered materials or which is otherwise entrained orabsorbed into those materials. Nor is it intended to exclude small amounts of water that may be desirablefor the purpose of handling the powder e.g. in dislodging powder from the mixing vessel. The term withoutthe addition of any substantial amount of water excludes the addition of water in such quantities that theinitial mixture becomes a solution or sol. The source of TEA cations for the aqueous solution used in the second stage of the preparation of thereaction may be tetraethylammonium hydroxide or a salt, provided that the anion does not interfere with thezeolite formation. The crystallization can be carried out at temperatures of at least 75 C and generally in the range of100 C to 250 C, preferably 125 to 200 C. The crystallization time is dependent of the reaction mixtureand the crystallization temperature, and it is within the competence of ones skilled in the art to determine an appropriate time by taking samples at intervals to determine the extent of zeolite beta formation. By way ofillustation, the crystallization time may be from a few hours to 50 days or more, but it is generally of theorder of 2 to 20 days. The pressure during crystallization may be atmospheric or greater, e.g. varying from1 to 60 bar, but this is by no means limiting. Crystallization is conveniently carried out under autogeneousconditions. The pressure build up under such conditions depending on the amount of TEA present and onthe crystallization time usually varies from 10 to 30 bar at autoclave filling levels of 60 or more. After formation, zeolite beta may be separated from the mother liquor and washed using normal workuptechniques. Zeolite beta may be characterized by its X ray powder diffraction pattern XRD pattern which definesthe unique structure of the zeolite. The characteristic d spacings of the XRD pattern are set out below inTable 1. Zeolite beta has extremely useful properties as an adsorbent and as a catalyst, as described in moredetail in US 3 308 069, US Re 28341, US 3 793 385 and EP 95303. High silica forms of zeolite beta mayalso be prepared by dealumination as described in EP 95304, and are useful in catalytic applications.Zeolite beta has been prepared having a composition outside the range defined in US Re 28341. Catalyticmaterials can be prepared by calcining the original sodium form of zeolite beta and or by replacing themajor portion of the sodium in the zeolite with other metallic and or ammoniacal ions. When calcination iscarried out prior to ion exchange, some or all of the resulting hydrogen ions can be replaced by metal ionsin the ion exchange process. For certain dehydrogenation and hydrogenation reactions such as hydrocracking,the catalyst will preferably contain a metal of Groups VB, VIB or VIII of the Periodic Table andsuch metal may either be in the cation of the zeolite or deposited on the surface of the zeolite. Thus, azeolite beta catalyst containing a metal of Groups IA, IIA, IIIA or one of the transition metals may havedeposited thereon a metal of Groups VB, VIB or VIII of the Periodic Table. Zeolite beta may be used as an adsorbent in any suitable form. For example, a column of powdercrystalline material may afford excellent results as may a pelleted form obtained by forming pellets of amixture of zeolite beta and a suitable binder. The compositions which may be formed by the invention include not only the sodium form of zeolitebeta as synthesized from a system with sodium as the exchangeable cation but also crystalline materialsobtained from such a zeolite by partial or complete replacement of the sodium ion with other cations. Thesodium cations can be replaced, at least in part, by other ions including but not limited to those of metalsbelow sodium in the electro motive series, calcium, ammonium, hydrogen and mixtures thereof. Particularlypreferred for such purpose are the alkaline earth metal ions transition metal ions such as manganese andnickel rare earth metal ions and other ions, for example, hydrogen and ammonium which behave in zeolitebeta as metals in that they can replace metal ions without causing any appreciable change in the basicstructure of the zeolite crystal. The transition metals include scandium, titanium, vanadium, chromium,manganese, iron, cobalt, nickel, yttrium, zirconium, niobium, molybdenum, ruthenium, rhodium, palladium,platinum, hafnium, tantalum, tungsten, rhenium, osmium, iridium, copper, zinc, silver and gold. Ion exchange of the sodium form of zeolite beta may be accomplished by conventional methods, forexample by washing the zeolite with a water solution of a soluble salt of the cation to be introduced into thezeolite. Ion exchange does not substantially change the zeolite structure. The invention will now be described in more detail, though only by way of illustration, in the followingExamples. A first solution was prepared by dissolving 59.13 g of silicic acid Baker 0254, 89 SiO Silicic acid Baker 0254, 89 SiO This was measured on a typical zeolite beta sample prepared in the foregoing Examples, which had 60 ofthe cation sites occupied by sodium. A cyclohexane sorption capacity of 17.6 w w was measured, comparable with the 19.4 w w reported Re 28341 and clearly distinct from the 1 w w reported for zeoliteNu 2 in EP A 0055046.