# Imidazo 4,5 f quinolines useful as immunomodulating agents.

## Abstract
The present invention involves compounds of the class of imidazo 4, 5 f quinolines and methods for enhancing the immune response system of mammals which comprises systemically administering to mammals having a depressed immune function an effective but nontoxic amount of a composition comprising such a compound.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method for enhancing the immune response system of a mammal which comprises systemically administering to a mammal having a depressed immune function a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound conforming to the following chemical structure EMI48.1 wherein R2 is H, straight or branched chain lower alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, monocyclic heteroaryl, or trihalomethyl R is H or straight or branched chain lower 4 5 alkyl R4 and R5 are H or straight or branched chain lower alkyl, or R4 and R5 are connected lower alkylene derivatives R7 is H, straight or branched chain lower alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, monocyclic heteroaryl, lower alkoxycarbonyl, or trihalomethyl R8 is H, lower alkyl, or lower alkoxyearbonyl, or R7 and R8 are connected lower alkylene derivatives and R10 is H, straight or branched chain alkyl, cycloalkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, naphthyl, monocyclic heteroaryl, substituted monocyclic heteroaryl, phenylalkyl, or substituted phenylalkyl and salts and or hydrates thereof, said pharmaceutical composition being administered to said mamnal in an amount which is non toxic but which is effective to enhance the function of the imnune response system of said mammal. 2. The method of Claim 1 wherein said compound is a hydrochloride salt. 3. The method of Claim 1 or 2 wherein R7 is H, methyl, phenyl or furanyl. 4. A method according to Claim 3 wherein R7 is methyl. 5. The method of any of Claims 1 to 4 wherein R3 2 R4 R5 g8 H. 6. The method of Claims 1 to 5 wherein R2 is H, phenyl, furanyl, thiazoyl, or thienyl. 7. The method of Claim 6 wherein R2 is H. 8. The method of any of Claims 1 to 7 wherein R10 is selected froin unsubstituted phenyl and mono , di or trisubstituted phenyl. 9. The method of any of Claims 1 to 8 wherein said substituted phenyl is substituted with halo, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, C1 C20 straight or branched chain alkyl, cycloalkyl, C1 C20 straight or branched chain alkoxy, aryl, trihalomethyl, aryloxy, arylalkoxy, cycloalkyloxy, cycloalkylalkyloxy, phenylazo, piperidyl, morpholinyl, pyrrolidyl, alkylpiperazinyl, carboxylic acid and carboxylic acid esters, alkylthio, carboxylalkyl and their esters, hydroxyalkyl, benzoyl, acetyl, propionyl, 2 dialkylaminoethoxy, 3,4 dimethylenedioxy, and or mono or disubstituted amines substituted with H, lower alkyl, hydroxyalkyl, and or alkanoyl. 10. The method of Claim 9 wherein said substituted phenyl is substituted with halo, cyano, Cl C12 straight or branched chain alkyl, lower C1 C10 straight or branched chain alkoxy, and mono or di substituted amines substituted with H, lower alkyl, hydroxyalkyl, and or alkanoyl. 11. The method of Claim 1 wherein said compound is selected from 4 1 7 methyl lH imidazo 4t5 lquinolin 9 ylZaminolbenzonitrile hydrochloride hydrate, N r3,4 difluoro phenyl 7 phenyl lH imidazo 4,5 f quinolin 9 amino hydrochloride,N 3,4 difluorophenyl 1H imidazo 4,5 f quinolin 9 amine hydrochloride, 4 7 phenyl 1H imidazo 4,5 f quinoline 9 yl I amino benzonitrile hydrochloride hydrate, 2 2 furanyl N 4 methoxyphenyl 7 methyl lH imidazof 4,5 fl quinolin 9 amine hydrochloride hydrate. 9 Ep N methylacetamido anilino 7 methyl 1H imidazo 4,5 f quinoline hydrochloride hydrate, 9 p anisidino 7 methyl 2 phenyl 1H imidazo 4,5 f quinoline hydrochloride hydrate, 9 p butylanilino 7 phenyl 1Himidazo 4,5 f quinoline hydrochloride. 12. A compound of the class of imidazo 4,5 f quinolines which conform to the chemical structure EMI50.1 wherein R2 is H, straight or branched chain lower alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, monocyclic heteroaryl, or trihalomethyl R3 is H or straight or branched chain lower alkyl R4 and R5 are H or straight or branched chain lower alkyl, or R4 and R5 are connected lower alkylene derivatives R7 is H, straight or branched chain lower alkyl, phenyl substituted phenyl, monocyclic heteroaryl, loer a1koxycarbonyl, or trihalomethyl R8 is H, lower alkyl, or lower alkoxyearbonyl, or R7 and R8 are connected lower alkylene derivatives and R10 is H, straight or branched chain alkyl, cycloalkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, naphthyl, monocyclic heteroaryl, substituted monocyclic heteroaryl, phenylalkyl, or substituted phenylalkyl except said compounds wherein R is H or methyl or unsubstituted phenyl and R3 R4 R5 R8 H and R7 is H or methyl or ethyl or unsubstituted phenyl and R10 is unsubstituted or substituted phenyl or 2 4 methyl 1 piperazinyl 5 pyridyl or 2 methoxy 5 pyridyl or 2 piperidino 5 pyridyl or 4 methoxybenzyl or cyclohexyl or alpha or ss naphthyl and salts and hydrates thereof. 13. Tha compound of Claim 12 wherein said compound is a hydrochloride salt. 14. The compound of Claim 12 or 13 wherein R3 R4 R5 R8 H. 15. The compound of any of Claims 12 to 14 wherein R2 is H, phenyl, furanyl, thiazoyl, or thienyl. 16. The compound of any of Claims 12 to 15 wherein R7 is H, methyl, phenyl or furanyl. 17. A compound of the class of imidazo 4,5 f quinolines which conform to the chemical structure EMI52.1 wherein R2 is H, straight or branched chain lower alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, monocyclic heteroaryl, or trihalomethyl R3 is H or straight or branched chain lower alkyl R4 and R5 are H or straight or branched chain lower alkyl, or R4 and R5 are connected lower alkylene derivates R7 is H, straight or branched chain lower alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, monocyclic heteroaryl, lower alkoxycarbonyl, or trihalomethyl R8 is H, lower alkyl, or lower alkoxycarbonyl, or R7 and R8 are connected lower alkylene derivatives and R10 is mono , di or trisubstituted phenyl except said compounds wherein R2 is H or methyl or unsubstituted phenyl and R3 R4 R5 R8 H and R7 10 is H or methyl or ethyl or unsubstituted phenyl and R10 is 4 methylphenyl or 2 chloro 5 methylphenyl or 4 n butylphenyl or 3 chloro 4 methylphenyl or 4 sec butylphenyl or 3 trifluoromethylphenyl or 3 trifluoromethyl 4 chlorophenyl or 2 phenylphenyl or 4 phenylphenyl or 2 methyl 3 chlorophenyl or 4 isopropylphenyl or 3,4 dichlorophenyl or 4 bromophenyl or 4 iodophenyl or 4 dimethylaminophenyl or 4 diethylaminophenyl or 3 chloro 4 dimethyliminophenyl or 4 piperidinophenyl or 4 4 methylpiperazlnyl phenyl or 3 dimethylaminophenyl or 3 chloro 4 piperldlnophenyl or 3 chloro 4 4 methyl piperazinylphenyl or 3 chloro 4 4 benzyl piperazinylphenyl or 4 methoxyphenyl or 4 ethoxyphenyl or 2 methoxyphenyl or 3 chloro 4 ethoxyphenyl or 4 n butoxyphenyl or 3 methoxyphenyl or 4 phenoxyphenyl or 4 methylthiophenyl or 4 benzyloxyphenyl or 2 methylthiophenyl or 3 methylthiophenyl or 3,4 dimethoxyphenyl or 3,4 diethoxyphenyl or 3,4 diisopropoxyphenyl or 3,4 diisobutoxyphenyl or 3, 4 di n butoxyphenyl or 3,4 disec amyloxyphenyl or 2,5 diethoxyphenyl or 2,5 dimethoxyphenyl or 2,5 dimethyl 4 chlorophenyl or 2 ethoxy 5 methoxyphenyl or 2 methoxy 5 ethoxyphenyl or 2, 5 diethoxy 4 chlorophenyl or 2, 4 dimethoxy 5 chlorophenyl or 3,4, 5 trimethoxyphenyl or 2,4,5 triethoxyphenyl or 4 acetyiphenyl or 3 acetyiphenyl or 4 n propionylphenyl or 4 n butyrylphenyl or 2 methyl 4 chlorophenyl or 3 nitro 4 methylphenyl or 3 chloro 4 ethylphenyl or 3 chloro 4 n butylphenyl or 3 chloro 4 fluorophenyl or 3 chloro 4 pyrrolidinophenyl or 4 phenylazophenyl or 2 methoxy 4 chlorophenyl or 3,4 methylenedioxyphenyl or 3, 4 di n amyloxyphenyZ or 3,4 diisoamyloxyphenyl or 4 chloro 2,5 di n butoxyphenyl or 4 2 diethylamino ethoxyphenyl, or R2 R3 R4 R5 R8 H and R7 is methyl and p10 is 4 hydroxyphenyl or 3 hydroxyphenyl or 4 acetylaminophenyl or 4 aminophenyl or 4 methylaminophenyl or 4 1 pyrrolidinyl phenyl or 4 N methyl N 2 hydroxyethyl amino phenyl or 4 carboxyphenyl or 4 chlorophenyl or 4 fluorophenyl or 4 Nmethylacetylamino phenyl or 4 benzoylphenyl or 2 methoxy 5 acetylphenyl or 4 2Thydroxyethyl phenyl or 3 chlorphenyl or 4 ethylphenyl or 3 chloro 4 hydroxyphenyl or 4 morpholinophenyl or 3 chloro 4 morpholinophenyl or 4 n dodecylphenyl or 4 carbethoxyphenyl and salts and hydrates thereof. 18. The compound of any of Claims 12 to 17 wherein said substituted phenyl is substituted with halo, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, C1 C20 straight or branched chain alkyl, cycloalkyl, C1 C20 straight or branched chain alkoxy, aryl, trihalomethyl, aryloxy, arylalkoxy, cycloalkyloxy, cycloalkylalkyloxy, phenylazo, piperidyl, morpholinyl, pyrrolidyl, alkylpiperazinyl, carboxylic acid and .carboxylic acid esters, alkylthio, carboxyalkyl and their esters, hydroxyalkyl, benzoyl, acetyl, propionyl, 2 dialkylaminoethoxy, 3, 4 dimethylenedioxy, and or mono or disubstituted amines substituted with H, lower alkyl, hydroxyalkyl, and or alkanoyl. 19. The compound of Claim 18 wherein said substituted phenyl is substituted with halo, cyano, C1 C12 straight or branched chain alkyl, lower Cl C1O straight or branched chain alkoxy, and mono or disubstituted amines substituted with H, lower alkyl, hydroxyalky, and or alkanoyl. 20. The compound 4 7 methyl 1H imidazo 4,5 f quinolin 9 yl amino benzonitrile hydrochloride hydrate. 21. Tha compound N 3,4 difluorophenyl 7 phenyl lH imidazo 4,5 f uinolin 9 amine hydrochloride. 22. The compound N 3,4 difluorophenyl 1H imidazo 4,5 f quinolin 9 amine hydrochloride. 23. The compound 4 7 phenyl lH imidazo 4,5 f quinolin9 yl amino benzonitrile hydrochloride hydrate. 24. The compound 2 2 f uranyl N 4 methoxyphenyl 7 methyl lHimidazo 4,5 f quinolin 9 amine hydrochloride hydrate. 25. A pharmaceutical composition in dosage unit form for enhancing the immune response system of a mammal comprising 1 a nontoxic amount of a compound according to any of Claims 12 to 24 which nontoxic amount is effective to enhance the function of the immune response system of said mammal and 2 a pharmaceutical carrier. 26. X method for enhancing the immune response system of a mammal, which method comprises systemically administering to a mammal haring a depressed immune function a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound conforming to the following chemical structure EMI55.1 wherein R2 is H, straight or branched chain lower alkyl, trihalanethyl, or unsubstituted or substituted tenyl, benzyl, naphthyl, furanyl, thiazoyl, thienyl, pyridyl, piperidyl, morpholino, pyrrole, piperatynyl, cyclohexyl, methylene 3 cyclohexyl, cyclopentyl, or pyrrolidinyl R3 is H or straight or branched chain lower alkyl R4 and R5 are H or straight or branched chain lower alkyl, or R4 and R5 are connected lower alkylene derivatives R7 is H, straight or branched chain lower alkyl, lower alkoxycarbonyl, trihalomethyl, or unsubstituted or substituted tenyl, benzyl, naphthyl, furanyl, thiazoyl, thienyl, pyridyl, piperidyl, morpholino, pyrrole, piperazynyl, cyclohexyl, methylene cyclohexyl, cyclopentyl, or pyrrolidinyl R8 is H, straight or branched chain lower alkyl, or lower alkoxy carbonyl, or R7 and R8 are connected lower alkylene derivatives and R10 is H, straight or branched chain alkyl, or unsubstituted or substituted phenyl, benzyl, naphthyl, furanyl, thiazoyl, thienyl, pyridyl, piperidyl, morpholino, pyrrole, piperazynyl, cyclohexyl, methylene cyclohexyl, cyclo pentyl, or pyrrolidinyl and salts and or hydrates thereof said pharmaceutical composition being administered to said mammal in an amount which is non toxic but which Is effective to enhance the function of the immune response system of said mammal. 27. A compound of the class of imidazof4,5 f quinolines which conform to the chemical structure EMI56.1 wherein R2 is H, straight or branched chain lower alkyl, trihalomethyl, or unsubstituted or substituted phenyl, benzyl, naphthyl, furanyl, thiazoyl, thienyl, pyridyl, piperidyl, morpholino, pyrrole, piperazynyl, cyclohexyl, methylene cyclohexyl, cyclopentyl, or pyrrolidinyl R is H or straight or branched chain lower alkyl R4 and R5 are H or straight or branched chain lower alkyl, or R4 and R5 are connected lower alkylene derivatives R7 is H, straight or branched chain lower alkyl, lower alkoxycarbonyl, trihalomethyl, or unsubstituted or substituted phenyl, benzyl, naphthyl, furanyl, thiazoyl, thienyl, pyridyl, piperidyl, morpholino, pyrrole, piperazynyl, cyclohexyl, methylene cyclohexyl, cyclopentyl, or pyrrolidinyl R8 is H, straight or branched chain lower alkyl, or lower alkoxy carbonyl, or R7 and R8 are connected lower alkylene derivatives and PlO is H, straight or branched chain alkyl, or unsubstituted or substituted phenyl, benzyl, naphthyl, furanyl, thiazoyl, thienyl, pyridyl, piperidyl, morpholino, pyrrole, piperazynyl, cyclohexyl, methylene cyclohexyl, cyclo pentyl, or pyrrolidinyl except said compounds whereinR2 is H or methyl or unsubstituted phenyl and R3 p R4 R5 R8 a H and R7 is H or methyl or ethyl or unsubstituted phenyl and 10 is unsubstituted or substituted phenyl or 2 4 methyl 1 piperazinyl 5 pyridyl or 2 methoxy 5 pyridyl or 2 piperidino 5 pyridyl or 4 methoxybenzyl or cyclohexyl oroC or ss naphthyl and salts and or hydrates thereof. 28. A method for enhancing the immune response system of a mammal according to Claim 1 wherein the effective but nontoxic amount is within the dosage range of from about 10 mg to about 2000 mg. 29. Use of a compound conforming to chemical structure 1 for the manufacture of a pharmaceutical composition for enhancing the immune response system of a mammal having a depressed immune function EMI57.1 wherein R2 is H, straight or branched chain lower alkyl, phenol, substituted phenyl, monocyclic heteroaryl, or trihalomethyl R3 is H or straight or branched chain lower alkyl R4 and R5 are H or straight or branched chain lower alkyl, or R4 and R5 are connected lower alkylene 7 derivatives R7 is , straight or branched chain lower alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, monocyclic heteroaryl, lower alkoxycarbonyl, or trihalomethyl R8 is H, lower alkyl, or lower alkoxycarbonyl, or R7 and R8 are connected lower alkylene derivatives and R10 is H, straight or branched dhain alkyl, cycloalkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, naphthyl, monocyclic heteroaryl, substituted monocyclic heteroaryl, phenylalkyl, or substituted phenylalkyl and salts and or hydrates thereof, said pharmaceutical composition being administered to said mammal in an amount which is non toxic but which is effective to enhance the function of the immune response system of said mammal.

## Description
IMlDAZO 4,5 fiQUlNOLINES USEFUL AS IMMUNOMODULATINC ACENTS TECHNICAL FIELD The present Invention relates to compounds and compositions which are useful as immunomodulating agents, and to the treatment. of a host to increase the function of the Immune system of the host. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION A state of immunosuppresslon of a host 1 often an undesired side effect of drug treatment such an effect Is commonly found as the result of cancer chemotherapy Involving antineopiastic agents.Such a suppression of the immune system lessens the body s natural defense mechanisms and enhances the probability of infectic. As used herein, an immunomodulator is an agent which enhances a depressed immune function of a host mammal. Immune function is defined as the development and expression of humoral antibody mediated immunity, cellular t cell mediated immunity, or macrophage and granulocyte mediated resistance, it Includes agents acting directly on the cells Involved In the expresslon of immune response, or on cellular or molecular mechanisms which act to modify the function of cells involved in immune response. Augmentation of immune function may result from the action of an agent to abrogafe suppressive mechanisms by negative feedback influences endogenous or exogenous to the immune system. Thus, immunomodulators have diverse mechanisms of action.Despite the diversity of cell site of actiori and biochemical mechanism of action of immunomodulators, their applications are essentially the same that is, to enhance host resistance. The principal protective function of the irrimune system relates to resistance to invasion by pathogens, including viruses, rickettsia, mycoplasna, bacteria, fungi and parasites of all types. Thus, improvement of immune response, particularly when depressed, would be expected to improve resistance to Infection or infestation by any of the above pathogens. An immunomodulator alone or in combination with anti infective therapy can be applied to any and all infectious diseases. Another protective function of the immune system is thought to be resistance to malignant cell development as in cancer. The use of immunomodulators can be used in cancer treatment to enhance tumor rejection and to inhibit tumor recurrences following other forms of therapy. Each of the protective functions of the immune system can be modified by therapy with immunomodulators alone or in combination with other agents employed to improve resistance or to kill the invading pathogen. in addition, specific resistance can be augmented by use of immunomodulators in conjunction with some form of antigen as in a vaccine employing, for example, virus, tumor cells, etc. This could induce specific immunity or tolerance. Use of immunomodulators may be either therapeutic or prophylactic the latter particularly in aging where infection and cancer are more common, or where immunosuppression is induced by drugs, trauma, or surgery. The timing of administration and routes are variable and may be critical in determining whether a positive response results. Certain imidazo 4.5 f quinolines are known, and It has been disclosed that some of these compounds have antibacterial or anthelmintic activity. The following references disclose certain imidazo 4,3 f quinolines and methods of synthesIzing them and are hereby incorporated by reference U.S. Patent No. 3,868,378 issued to Spencer s Alaimo on February 25, 1975 U.S. Patent No. 3,878,206 Issued to Spencer t Snydei dn AprIl IS, 1975 U.S. PatentNo. 3.919.238 issued to Spencer s Snyder on November 11, 1975 Ishiwata, S., Y. Shiokawa, Synthesis of Benzlmidazoies andRelated Compounds. 11.Syntheses of 3h imidazo 4,5 f and 1 H lmidazo 5,4 9 jquinolines Chemical Pharmaceutical Bulletin,Vol. 17 1969 , pp. 2455 2460 Spencer, C.F., H.R. Snyder, Jr., BR R.J. Alaimo, 9 Chloro or hydroxy 2 andlor 7 substituted imidazo 4,5 f quinolines 1 . Journal of HeterocyclicChemistry, Vol. 12, No. 6 December, 1975 , pp. 1319 1321, Spencer,C.F., H. R. Snyder, Jr., H. A. Burch, t C.J. Hatton, imidazo 4.5 f quinolines. 2. A Series of 9 Substituted amino imidazo 4,3 f quinolines as Antitapeworm Agents , Journal of Medicinal Chemistry, Vol. 20, No. 6 1977 , pp. 829 833 Snyder,H.R., Jr., C.F. Spencer, 5 R.Freedman, imidazo 4.5 f quinolines 111 Antibacterial 7 methyl 9 substituted Arylamino Imidazo 4 ,5 f quinolines , Journal of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Vol. 66, No. 8 August 1977 , pp. 1204 1206 Alaimo, R.J., C.F. Spencer,J.B Scheffer, R.J. Storrin, C.J. Hatton, R.E. Kohis, Imidazo 4,5 f quinolines. 4. Synthesis and Anthelmintic Activity of a Series of Imidazot4,5 f quinolin 9 ols , Journal of Medicinal Chemistry,Vol. 21, No. 3 1978 , pp. 298 300. 4 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION It is an object of the present invention to provide a method of enhancing the immune response system in mammals. It is a further object of this invention to provide such enhanced immune response system to mammals in which such system has been suppressed. It is also an object of this invention to provide novel compounds which enhance the immune response system in mammals. It is also an object of this invention to provide pharmaceutical compositions which enhance the immune response system in mammals. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION In one of its aspects, the present invention is a method for enhancing the immune response system of mammals which comprises systemically administering to mammals having depressed immune function an effective but nontoxic amount of a composition comprising certain imidazo 4,5 f quinolines as immunomodulating agents.T imidazot4,5 f quinolines found to be useful as immunomodulating agents conform to the chemical structure EMI4.1 wherein Rê is H, straight or branched chain lower alkyl, aryl, substituted aryl, heteroaryl, or trihalomethyl R3 is H or straight or branched chain lower alkyl R4 and RS are H or straight or branched chain lower alkyl, or R4 and R5 are connected lower alkylene derivatives R7 is H, straight or branched chain lower alkyl, aryl, substituted aryl, heteroaryl, lower alkoxycarbonyI, or trihalomethyl R8 Is H, lower alkyl, or lower alkoxycarbonyl, or R7 and R8 are connected lower alkylene derivatives and R1 0 is H, straight or branched chain alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, substituted aryl, naphthyl, heteroaryl, substituted heteroaryl, arylalkyl or substituted arylalkyl and salts andlor hydrates thereof Compounds A . Preferred compounds useful in the present invention are the hydrochloride salts of Compounds A. Preferred imidazoj4,5 f quinolines useful in the present invention include compounds which conform to the chemical structureCompounds A hereinabove, but wherein R10 is phenyl or mono , or trisubstituted phenyl. More preferred are such imidazo 4,5 f quinolines wherein said substituted phenyl is substituted with groups such as halo, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, C1 C20 straight or branched chain alkyl, cycloalkyl, Ct C20 straight or branched chain alkoxy, aryl, trihalomethyl, aryloxy, arylalkyloxy, cycloalkyloxy, cycloalkylalky loxy, phenylazo, piperidyl, morpholinyl, pyrrolidyl, alkylpiperazinyl, carboxylic acid and carboxylic acid esters, alkylthio, carboxyalkyl and their esters, hydroxyalkyl, benzoyI acetyl, propionyl, 2 diatkylaminoethoxy, 3,4 dimethylenedioxy, and or monoor disubstituted arninos substituted with H, lower alkyl, hydroxyalkyl, andlor alkanoyl. More preferred still are such compounds wherein said substituted phenyl is substituted with groups such as halo, cyano, C1 C12 straight or branched chained alkyl,C1 C10 straight or branched chained alkoxy, and or mono or disubstituted aminos substituted with H, lower alkyl, hydroxyalkyl, andlor alkanoyl. Especially preferred are such compounds wherein said substituted groups are 4 cyano, 3,4 difluoro, 4 n butyl, 4 methoxy, or 4 N methyiacetamido. Preferred imidazo 4,5 f quinolines used in the present invention include compounds which conform to the chemical structure ofCompounds A hereinabove, but wherein R2 is H, phenyl, furanyl, thiazoyl, and thienyl especially preferred are such compounds wherein R2 is H. Preferred imidazo 4,5.fiquinollnes useful in the present invention include compounds which conform to the chemical structure ofCompounds A hereinabove, but wherein R3 is H. When R3 is H in compounds which conform to chemical structure 1 hereinabove, chemical structure a EMI6.1 is equivalent to chemical structure b EMI7.1 In order to conform to usual convention, chemical structures analogous to b will be used herein and will be understood to include those analogous to a also. Preferred imidazo 4,5 f quinolines useful in the present inventionInclude compounds which conform to the chemical structure ofCompounds A hereinabove, but wherein R4 is H. Preferred imidazo 4, 5 f quinolines useful in the present invention include compounds which conform to the chemical structure ofCompounds A hereinabove, but wherein R5 is H. Preferred imidazo 4,5 f quinolines useful in the present invention include compounds which conform to the chemical structure ofCompounds A hereinabove, but wherein R8 is H. Preferred imidazol4,5 f quinolines useful in the present invention include compounds which conform to the chemical structure ofCompounds A hereinabove, but wherein R7 is H, methyl, phenyl, or furanyl especially preferred are such compounds wherein R7is methyl also especially preferred are such compounds wherein R7 is phenyl. Preferred imLdazo f Li , 5 f quinoiines useful in the present invention include compounds which conform to the chemical structure of Compounds A hereinabove, but wherein such compounds include any combination of the preferred groups of R2, R, R, R5, R7. R8. andR10 disclosed hereinabove. Especially preferred imidazo 4,5 f quinolines useful as immunomodulating agents include compounds which conform to the following chemical structures 4 7 methyl 1H imidazo 4,5 f quinolin 9 yl amino benzonitrile hydrochloride hydrate EMI8.1 N 3,4 difluorphenyl 7 phenyl 1H imidazo 4,5 f quinolin 9 amine hydrochloride EMI8.2 N 3,4 difluorophenyl 1H imidazo 4,5 f quinolin 9 amine hydrochloride EMI9.1 4 7 phenyl 1H imidazo 4,5 f quinolin 9 yl amino benzonitrile hydrochloride hydrate EMI9.2 6 HCl 1 2 H2O 2 2 furanyl n 4 methoxypheny 7 methyl 1h imidazo 4,5 f quinolin9 amine hydrochloride hydrate EMI10.1 HCl 1 2 H20 7 9 p N methylacetamido anilino9 7 methyl 1H imidazo 4,5 f quinoline hydrochloride hydrate EMI10.2 HC1 1 1 2 H20 8 9 p anisidino 7 methyl 2 phenyl 1H imidazo 4,5 f quinoline hydrochloride hycrate EMI11.1 1 2 H2O 9 9 p butylanilino 7 phenyl 1H imidazo 4,5 f quinoline hydrochloride EMI11.2 The immunomodulating activity of compounds of the present invention can be demonstrated using the test method set forth in the following reference Bicker, V., C. Hebold, A.E. Ziegler c W. Maus, Animal Experiments on the Compensation of the ImmunosuppressiveAction of Cyclophosphamide by 2 2 Cyanaziridinyl 1 2 2 carbamoyl aziridinyl 1 propane BM 12.531 , Experinentai PathologyBd., Vol. 15, No. 1 1978 , pp. 49 62.The test method is based on the use of an immunosuppressing agent generally cyclophosphamide to depress the bacterial resistance of a host mammal generallySwiss Webster mice . The test compound is given to some of the mice which are then given a dose of a pathogenic organism generallyPseudomonas aeruginosa . The survival of the animals treated with the test compound is compared to those not treated. TEST METHODA. Animals Mice were obtained from Charles River Breeding Laboratories,Wilmington, Massachusetts, and were Swiss Webster outbred CD t females weighting 14 16 g on arrival. They weighed 20 25 g when used. The desired number of mice generally 20 40 were divided into two groups, a control group and an experimental group, for each test, Five mice were housed per stainless steel cage 17.5 x 24.5 x 12.5 cm . Animals were given Purina Lab Chow and water ad libitRoom temperature was 21 240C, relative humidity 25 50 . Lighter,, was on from 6 AK1 6 PM.B. Organism Pseudononas aeruginosa Ps 44 was from the stock collection ofEaton Laboratories. It was grown on Trypticase Soy Agar, harvested in 10 skim milk, distributed In disposable tubes and stored at 730C.For animal inoculation the suspension was thawed, incubated inTrypticase Soy Broth 18 hours at 370C and washed three times in phosphate buffered saline PBS , pH 7.4, before being appropriately diluted in PBS for use. Estimations of cell populations were made on a Bausch and Lomb Spectronic 20 colorimeter and viable plate counts done for confirmatlon. Escherlchia coli Es 90 was maintained onBrain Heart agar slants at 4 C.C. Drugs Cyclophosphamide e.g., Cytoxan, Mead Johnson was purchased commercially. Cyclophosphamide CY and experimental compounds were diluted to desired concentratIons in sterile, non pyrogenlc saline from Abbott Laboratories, N. Chicago, IL 60064.D. Mouse Infection All mice in both the control and experimental groups wereInitially Infected with 0.2 ml containing 1 x 106 Pseudomonas aeruginosa intravenously l.v. on Day 0. E. Screening The mice in both the control and experimental groups w immunosuppressed by injecting either 100 or 150 mg kg CY 4 ac Day 4 before P. aeruginosa challenge 1 x 106 cells .Experimental compound was given subcutaneously s.c. to mice in the experimental group only on Days 4 and 2. The dose level was normally 80 mg kg. Some experimental compounds were tested at lower levels. The biological activity is reported as percent protection afforded by the experimental compound at a given dose. Percent protection is calculated as follows Protection dead in control group dead in experimental group x 100 c dead in control group EXAMPLES l CLI Experimental compounds having the following chemical structure were tested for immunomodulating activity according to the above test method EMI14.1 wherein R4 RS A6 H.The results of the tests are provided in Table I TABLE I ProtecEXAMPLE Rê R R7 R8 Aê A A4 A5 tion I H H CH3 H H H OCH3 H 98II H H CH3 H H H H H 77III H H CH3 H H H OCH2CH3 H 100IV H H CH3 H H H N CH3 2 H 100V H H CH3 H H H OH H 79VI H H CH3 H H H Cl H 100VII H H CH3 H H Cl Cl H 100VIII H H CH3 H H OCH3 OCH3 H 75IX H H CH3 H OCH3 H H H 71X H H CH3 H H Cl OCH2CH3 H 100XI H H CH3 H H H N CH2CH3 2 H 95XII H H CH3 H OCH2CH3 H H OCH2CH3 100XIII H H CH3 H H H F H 100XIV H H CH3 H H H O CH2 3CH3 H 100 a XV H H CH3 H H H Br H 100XVI H H CH3 H H Cl N CH3 2 H 100XVII H H CH3 H H H CH3 H 100XVIII H H CH3 H H OCH3 H H 100XIX H H CH3 H H H NHCOCH3 H 79XX H H CH3 H Cl H H CH3 82XXI H H CH3 H OCH3 H H OCH3 100XXII H H CH3 H OCH3 H OCH3 Cl 91 TABLE I cont. ProtecEXAMPLE Rê R R7 R8 Aê A A4 A5 tion XXIII H H CH3 H CH3 H Cl OCH3 100XXIV H H CH3 H H OCH2CH3 OCH2CH3 H 83XXV H H CH3 H H OCH CH3 2 OCH CH3 2 H 100XXVI H H CH3 H H H OC6H5 H 100XXVII H H CH3 H H H N CH3 COCH3 H 80XXVIII H H H H H H OCH3 H 100 a XXIX C6H5 H CH3 H H H OCH3 H 100XXX H H CH3 H OCH2CH3 H H OCH3 100XXXI H H CH2CH3 H H H OCH3 H 100XXXII H H CH3 H H H NHCH3 H 100 g XXXIII H H CH3 H H H NH2 H 73XXXIV H H C6H5 H H H OCH3 H 73XXXV H H CH3 H H OCH2CH CH3 2 OCH2CH CH3 2 H 100XXXVI H H CH3 H H H CO2CH2CH3 H 64 b XXXVII H H CH3 H H H COC6H5 H 100XXXVIII H H CH3 H OCH3 H H OCH2CH3 87XXXIX H H CH3 H OCH3 H H COCH3 100XL H H CH3 H H OCH3 OCH3 OCH3 100XLI H H CH3 H H COCH3 H H 100XLII H H CH3 H OCH2CH3 H Cl OCH2CH3 92XLIII H H CH3 H H H COCH2CH3 H 100 s TABLE I cont. EMI17.1 SEP ProtecEXAMPLE SEP Rê SEP R SEP R7 SEP R8 SEP Aê SEP A SEP A4 SEP A5 SEP tion tb XLIV SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CH2 CH2 2CH3 SEP H SEP 100 tb XlV SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CH2CH2OH SEP H SEP 93 tb XlVI SEP CH3 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP H SEP 100 tb XlVII SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP SCH3 SEP H SEP 100 tb XlVIII SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP CH2 3CH3 SEP OCH2 CH2 2CH3 SEP H SEP 93 tb XLIX SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP O CH2 O SEP H SEP 100 tb L SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP Cl SEP H SEP H SEP 100 tb LI SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CH2CH3 SEP H SEP 93 tb LII SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP N SEP H SEP 100 tb LIII SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP N O SEP H SEP 100 tb LIV SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP OCH2CH3 SEP H SEP OCH2CH3 SEP OCH2CH3 SEP 77 tb LV SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP O CH2 4CH3 SEP O CH2 4CH3 SEP H SEP 100 tb LVI SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP I SEP H SEP 100 tb LVII SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP N N CH3 SEP H SEP 100 tb LVIII SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP N SEP H SEP 100 tb TABLE I cont. EMI18.1 SEP ProtecEXAMPLE SEP Rê SEP R SEP R7 SEP R8 SEP Aê SEP A SEP A4 SEP A5 SEP tion SEP tb LIX SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP N CH3 CH2CH2OH SEP H SEP 87 tb LX SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP C6H5 SEP H SEP 100 tb LXI SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP N CH3 2 SEP H SEP H SEP 100 tb LXII SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP Cl SEP N O SEP H SEP 100 tb LXIII SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP Cl SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 93 tb LXIV SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP COCH2CH2CH3 SEP H SEP 100 tb LXV SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP NO2 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 100 tb LXVI SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP Cl SEP F SEP H SEP 88 tb LXVII SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP Cl SEP N NCH3 SEP H SEP 100 tb LXVIII SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP CF3 SEP H SEP H SEP 100 tb LXIX SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP H SEP Cl SEP H SEP 100 tb LXX SEP H SEP H SEP C6H5 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CH2 3CH3 SEP H SEP 100 tb LXXI SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP Cl SEP N SEP H SEP 94 tb LXXII SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP OCH2CH2CH CH3 2 SEP OCH2CH2CH CH3 2 SEP H SEP 100 tb LXXIII SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP OCH2C6H5 SEP H SEP 100 tb LXXIV SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP SCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP 100 tb TABLE I cont. ProtecEXAMPLE R2 R3 R7 R8 A2 A3 A4 A5 tion LXXV H H CH3 H H H N N C6H5 H 100LXXVI H H CH3 H H SCH3 H H 100LXXVII H H CH3 H H H CO2H H 79LXXVIII H H CH3 H H CF3 Cl H 100LXXIX H H CH3 H CH3 H Cl H 100LXXX H H CH3 H C6H5 H H H 89LXXXI H H CH3 H CH3 Cl H H 78LXXXII H H CH3 H H Cl OH H 50LXXXIII H H CH3 H H H OCH2CH2N CH2CH3 2 H 100LXXXIV H H CH3 H H H CH CH3 2 H 70LXXXV H H CH3 H H Cl CH2CH3 H 78LXXXVI H H CH3 H H Cl CH2 3CH3 H 78LXXXVII H H CH3 H H H COCH3 H 100LXXXVIII H H CH3 H OC4H9 H Cl OC4H9 90LXXXIX H H CH3 H H H C12H25 H 95XC H H CH3 H H OC10H21 OC10H21 H 100XCl H H CH3 H H Cl H Cl 100 CH3 XCII H H CH3 H H H CHC2H5 H 100 a TABLE I cont. EMI20.1 SEP ProtecEXAMPLE SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP R7 SEP R8 SEP A2 SEP A3 SEP A4 SEP A5 SEP tion tb XCIII SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP Cl SEP N NCH2C6H5 SEP H SEP 100 c tb XCIV SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CH2 3COOH SEP H SEP 95 tb SEP CH3 SEP CH3 tb SEP SEP tb XCV SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP OCHC3H7 SEP OCHC3H7 SEP H SEP 100 a tb XCVI SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP Cl SEP Cl SEP Cl SEP 100 tb XCVII SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP C4H9 SEP H SEP 100 g tb XCVIII SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP C4H9 SEP H SEP 100 a tb XCIX SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 100 j tb C SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP C10H21 SEP H SEP 100 a tb CI SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP C3H7 SEP H SEP 100 a tb CII SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP C CH3 3 SEP H SEP 100 a tb CIII SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP C6H13 SEP H SEP 100 a tb CIV SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP C5H11 SEP H SEP 90 a tb CV SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP OC10H21 SEP H SEP 100 a tb CVI SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP C7H15 SEP H SEP 100 a tb CVII SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP F SEP F SEP H SEP 100 a tb CVIII SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP OC10H21 SEP H SEP 100 a j tb CIX SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CN SEP H SEP 100 tb TABLE I cont. EMI21.1 SEP ProtecEXAMPLE SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP R7 SEP R8 SEP A2 SEP A3 SEP A4 SEP A5 SEP tion tb CX SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP OCH2 SEP H SEP 100 c tb CXI SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP Cl SEP F SEP H SEP 70 c tb CXII SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP F SEP H SEP H SEP 100 j tb CXIII SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP F SEP H SEP F SEP H SEP 90 c tb CXIV SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP F SEP H SEP H SEP F SEP 100 a tb CXV SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP F SEP H SEP 100 a j tb CXVI SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 80 c tb CXVII SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP Cl SEP N NCH3 SEP H SEP 100 tb CXVIII SEP H SEP H SEP C6H5 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP C4H9 SEP H SEP 80 b j tb CIX SEP H SEP H SEP C6H5 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP N O SEP H SEP 70 c tb CXX SEP H SEP H SEP C6H5 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP H SEP 20 c J tb CXXI SEP H SEP H SEP C6H5 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP F SEP H SEP 96 tb CXXII SEP H SEP H SEP C6H5 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP SEP H SEP 100 c h tb TABLE I cont. EMI22.1 SEP ProtecEXAMPLE SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP R7 SEP R8 SEP A2 SEP A3 SEP A4 SEP A5 SEP tion tb CXXIII SEP H SEP H SEP C6H5 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CN SEP H SEP 100 c tb CXXIV SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP C4H9 SEP H SEP 100 a tb CXXV SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP F SEP F SEP H SEP 100 tb CXXVI SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CN SEP H SEP 80 c j tb CXXVII SEP H SEP H SEP SEP H SEP H SEP F SEP F SEP H SEP 100 c tb SEP O tb CXXVIII SEP H SEP H SEP SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP H SEP 100 c tb SEP O tb CXXIX SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP C4H9 SEP H SEP 89 a tb CXXX SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP H SEP 100 tb CXXXI SEP C6H5 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP OC4H9 SEP H SEP 100 c tb CXXXII SEP C6H5 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP C12H25 SEP H SEP 100 c tb CXXXIII SEP C6H5 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP OCH3 SEP H SEP 100 c tb CXXXIV SEP C6H5 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP 100 c tb SEP H3CO tb CXXXV SEP SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP H SEP 100 a tb TABLE I cont. EMI23.1 SEP ProtecEXAMPLE SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP R7 SEP R8 SEP A2 SEP A3 SEP A4 SEP A5 SEP tion tb CXXXVI SEP C6H5 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP N CH3 COCH3 SEP H SEP 100 c tb CXXXVII SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP H SEP 40 c tb CXXXVIII SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP C4H9 SEP H SEP 100 tb CXXXIX SEP SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP OCH3 SEP H SEP 100 c tb SEP O tb CXL SEP SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP F SEP F SEP H SEP 100 c tb SEP O tb CXLI SEP SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP C4H9 SEP H SEP 100 c tb SEP O tb CXLII SEP SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP H SEP 100 c tb SEP O tb CXLIII SEP SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CN SEP H SEP 100 c tb SEP O tb CXXIV SEP SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP N CH3 COCH3 SEP H SEP 100 f tb SEP O tb CXLV SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP N CH3 COCH3 SEP H SEP 100 c tb SEP S tb CXLVI SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP OCH3 SEP H SEP 78 c tb TABLE I cont. ProtecEXAMPLE R2 R3 R7 R8 A2 A3 A4 A5 tion CXLVII CF3 H CH3 H H F F H 90CXLVIII CF3 H CH3 H H H C4H9 H 100 c CXLIX H H CH2 4 H H OCH3 H 100CL H H CH2 4 H H C4H9 H 80CLI H H COOC2H5 H H H OCH3 H 100 a Quantity of experimental compound administrid in each dose was 40 mg kg. b Quantity of experimental compound administrid in each dose was 20 mg kg. c Quantity of experimental compound administrid in each dose was 5 mg kg. d Quantity of experimental compound administrid in each dose was 2 mg kg. e Quantity of experimental compound administrid in each dose was 1 mg kg. f Quantity of experimental compound administrid in each dose was 10 mg kg. g Experimental compound is 2HCl h Experimental compound is 2HCl j Experimental compound is free base.All structures shown as CxH2x 1 are sraight chain alkyl structures.C6H5 is phenyl. EXAMPLES CLII CLXI I Compounds having the following chemical structure were tested for Immunomodulating activity using the above test method EMI25.1 The results of the tests are provided in Table II TABLE II EMI26.1 SEP ProtecEXAMPLE SEP Rê SEP R SEP R4 SEP R5 SEP R7 SEP R8 SEP R10 SEP tion tb CLII SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP 91 tb CLIII SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP N SEP 21 tb SEP tb CLIV SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP SEP 100 tb SEP N tb CLV SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP N NCH3 SEP 100 tb SEP N tb CLVI SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP 90 tb SEP N tb CLVII SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP N SEP 100 tb CLVIII SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP CH2 OCH3 SEP 100 tb CLIX SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP SEP 90 tb CLX SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP CH2CH CH3 2 SEP 100 tb TABLE II cont. EMI27.1 SEP ProtecEXAMPLE SEP Rê SEP R SEP R4 SEP R5 SEP R7 SEP R8 SEP R10 SEP tion tb CLXI SEP C6H5 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP CH2 OCH3 SEP 100 c tb SEP OCH3 tb SEP tb CLXII SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP SEP 0 tb SEP tb a Quantity of experimental compound administered in each dose was 40 mg kg. c Quantity of experimental compound administered in each dose was 5 mg kg.All structures shown as CxH2x 1 are straight chain alkyl structures.C6H5 is phenyl. Another aspect of the present invention is certain imidazo 4,5 flquinolines which are novel compounds and are useful as immunomodulating agents. Novel compounds of the present invention include compounds of the class of imidazo 4,5 f quinolines which conform to the chemical structure of Compounds A except for such imidazo 4,5 f quinolines which are disclosed in the following references incorporated by reference hereinabove Spencer Alaimo 378 Spencer Snyder 206 Spencer Snyder 238 Ishiwata Shiokawa Spencer, Snyder BR Alaimo Spencer, Snyder, Burch Hatton Snyder, Spencer Freedman and Alaimo, Spencer, Sheffer, Storrin, Hatton Kohls. Novel compounds of the present invention include compounds of the class of imidazo 4,5 flquinolines which conform to the chemical structure of Compounds A, but wherein R1 0 is H, straight or branched chain alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, substituted aryl, naphthvl. heteroaryl, substituted heteroaryl, arylalkyl, or substituted arylalk except such compounds wherein R10 is phenyl or mono , di , o, trisubstituted phenyl, R2 is H or methyl or phenyl and R3 R4 R5 R8 H and R7 is H or methyl or ethyl or phenyl and R10 is 2 4 methyl 1 piperazinyl 5 pyridyl or 2 methoxy 5 pyridyl or 2 piperidino 5 pyridyl or 4 methoxybenzyl or cyclohexyl orOt or ss naphthyl, or R2 R3 R4 R5 R8 H and R7 is methyl and R10 is 9 anthryl Compounds B . Preferred novel compounds of the present invention include Compounds B, wherein R7 is methyl and R is isobutyl and R2 R3 R4 R5 p8 H, or R2 isphenyl and R7 is methyl and R1 is 3,4 dimethoxyphenylmethyl and R R4 R5 R8 H. Novel compounds of the present invention include compounds of the class of imidazo ,5 fquinolines which conform to the chemical structure of Compounds A, but wherein R10 is mono , di or trisubstituted phenyl except such compounds wherein R2 is H or methyl or phenyl and R3 R4 R5 R8 H and R7 is H or methyl or ethyl or phenyl and R10 is 4 methylphenyl or 2 chloro 5 methylphenyl or 4 n butylphenyl or 3 chloro 4 methylphenyl or 4 sec. butylphenyl or 3 trifluoromethylphenyl or 3 trifluoromethyl 4 chlorophenyl or 2 phenylphenyl or 4 phenylphenyl or 2 methyl 3 chlorophenyl or 4 isopropylphenyl or 3,4 dichlorophenyl or 4 bromophenyl or 4 iodophenyl or 4 dimethylaminophenyl or 4 diethylaminophenyl or 3 chloro 4 dimethylaminophenyl or 4 piperidinophenyl or 4 4 methylpiperazinyl phenyl or 3 dimethylaminophenyl or 3 chloro 4 piperidinophenyl or 3 chloro 4 4 methyl piperazinylphenyl or 3 chloro 4 4 benzyl piperazinylphenyl or 4 methoxyphenyl or 4 ethoxyphenyl or 2 methoxyphenyl or 3 chloro 4 ethoxyphenyl or 4 n butoxyphenyl or 3 methoxyphenyl or 4 phenoxyphenyl 4 methylthiophenyl or 4 benzyloxyphenyl or 2 methylthiophenyl or 3 methylthiophenyl or 3,4 dimethoxyphenyl or 3 ,4 diethoxyphenyl or 3,4 diisopropoxyphenyl or 3 ,4 diisobutoxyphenyl or 3,4 di n butoxyphenyl or 3,4 disec. amyloxyphenyl or 2,5 diethoxyphenyl or 2,5 dimethoxyphenyl or 2, 5 dimethoxy Li chlorophenyl or 2 ethoxy 5 methoxyphenyl or 2 methoxy 5 ethoxyphenyl or 2, 5 diethoxy 4 chlorophenyl or 2 ,4 dimethoxy 5 chlorophenyl or 3,4,5 trimethoxyphenyl or 2,4,5 triethoxyphenyl or 4 acetylphenyl or 3 acetylphenyl or 4 n propionylphenyl or 4 n butyrylphenyl or 2 methyl 4 chlorophenyl or 3 nitro 4 rnethylphenyl or 3 chloro 4 ethylphenyl or 3 chloro 4 n butvlphenyl or 3 chloro 4 fluorophenyl or 3 chloro 4 pyrrol idinophenyl or 4 phenylazophenyl or 2 methoxy 4 chlorophenyl or 3,4 methylenedioxyphenyl or 3, dl n amyloxvphenyl or 3,4 diisoamyloxyphenyl or 4 chloro 2 ,5 di n butoxyphenyl or 4 2 diethylamino ethoxyphenyl, orR2 R3 R4 R5 R8 H and R7 Is methyl and R10 is 4 hydroxyphenyl or 3 hydroxyphenyl or 4 acetylaminophenyl or 4 aminophenyl or 4 methylaminophenyl or 4 1 pyrrolldlnyl phenyl or 4 N methyl N 2 hydroxyethyl amino phenyl or 4 carboxyphenyl or 4 chlorophenyl or 4 fluorophenyl or 4 N methylacetylamino phenyl or 4 benzoylphenyl or 2 methoxy 5 acetylphenyl or 4 2 hydroxyethy phenyl or 3 chlorphenyl or 4 ethyiphenyl or 3 chloro 4 hydroxypheny I or . 4 morpholinophenyl or 3 chloro 4 morpholinophenyl or 4 n dodecylphenyl or 4 carbethoxyphenyl Compounds C . Preferred novel compounds of the present invention includeCompounds C wherein said substituted phenyls are substituted with groups such as halo, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, C1 C20 straight or branched chain alkyl, cycloalkyl, C1 C20 straight or branched chain alkoxy, aryl, trihalomethyl, aryloxy, arylalkyloxy, cycloalkyloxy, cycloalkylalkyloxy, phenylazo, piperidyl, morpholinyl, pyrrolidyl, alkylpiperazinyl, carboxylic acid and carboxylic acid esters, alkylthio, carboxyalkyl and their esters, hydroxyalkyl, benzoyl, acetyl, propionyl, 2 dialky laninoethoxy 3,4 dimethylenedioxy, andlor monoor disubstituted aminos substituted with H, lower alkyl, hydroxyalkyl and or alkanoyl.More preferred still are Compounds C wherein said substituted phenyis are substituted with groups such as halo, cyano, C1 C12 straight or branched chain alkyl, C1 C10 straight or branched chain alkoxy, and or r,ono or disubstituted aminos substituted withH, lower alkyl, hycroxyalkyl, and or alkanoyl. More preferred novel compounds of the present invention includeCompounds C, wherein R7 is phenyl and R10 is 4 n morpholino phenyl and R2 R3 R4 R5 R8 H, R7 is phenyl and R10 is 3,4 difluorophenyl and R2 R3 R4 R5 R8 H, R7 is phenyl and R10 is 4 cyanophenyl and R2 R3 R4 R5 R6 H, R10 is 3,4 difluorophenyl and Rê R R4 R5 R7 R8 H, R10 is 4 cyanophenyl and R2 R3 R4 R5 R7 R8 H, R7 is furanyl and R10 is 3,4 difluorophenyl and R2 R3 R4 R5 R8 H, R7 is furanyl and R10 is 4 methoxyphenyl and R2 R3 R4 R5 R8 H.Other preferred novel compounds of the present invention includeCompounds C, wherein R3 is methyl and R7 Is methyl and R10 is 4 n butylphenyl and R2 R4 R5 R8 H, R3 is methyl and R7 is methyl and R10 is 4 methoxyphenyl and R2 R4 RS R8 H, R2 is phenyl and R7 is methyl and R10 is 4 n dodecylphenyl and R3 R4 R5 R8 H, R2 is phenyl and R7 is methyl and R10 is 4 cycloamyloxyphenyl and R3 R4 R5 R8 HI R2 is 2 methoxyphenyl and R7 is methyl and R10 is 4 methoxyphenyl andR3 R4 R5 R8 H, R2 is phenyl and R7 is methyl and R10 is 4 N methylacetylamino phenyl and R3 R4 R5 R8 H, R7 is methyl and R8 is methyl and R10 is 4 methoxyphenyl and R2 R3 R4 R5 H, or R7 is methyl and R8 is methyl and R10 is 4 n butylphenyl and R2 R3 R4 R5 H. Other preferred novel compounds of the present invention include Compounds C, wherein R2 is furanyl and R7 is methyl and R10 is 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl or 3,4 difluorophenyl or 4 n butylphenyl or 4 methoxyphenyl or 4 cyanophenyl or 4 N methylacetylamino phenyl and R3 R4 R5 R8 H.Other preferred novel compounds of the present invention include Compounds C, wherein R2 is 2 thienyl and R7 is methyl and R is 4 acetylaminophenyl and R3 R4 R5 R8 HI R7 is methyl and R8 is methyl and R10 Is 3,4 dimethoxyphenyl and R2 R3 R4R5 H, R2 is trifluorornethyl and R7 is methyl and R10 Is 3,4 difluorophenyl and R3 r R4 R5 R8 r H, R2 is trifiuoromethyl and R7 Is methyl and R10 is 4 n butylphenyl and R3 R4 R5 r R8 H, R7 and R8 are connected by n butylene and R10 is 4 methoxyphenyl and R2 R3 R4 R5 H, R7 and R8 are connected by n butylene and R10 Is n butylphenyl and R2 R3 R4 R5 H, or R7 is propionyl and R10 is 4 methoxyphenyl and R2 R3 R4 R5 R8 H.Other preferred novel compounds of the present invention include Compounds C, wherein R2 R3 R4 R5 R8 H and R7 is methyl and R10 is 3,4 di n dodecylphenyl or 2, 4 dichlorophenyl or 4 carboxy n propylphenyl or 3,4,5 trichlorophenyl or 3,4 dimethylphenyl or 4 n decylphenyl or 4 n propylphenyl or 4 isobutylphenyl or 4 n hexylphenyl or 4 n amylphenyl or 4 n decyloxypheny or 4 n septylphenyl or 3,4 difluorphenyl or 4 cyanophenyl or 4 cyclohexylmethoxyphenyl or 3 fluorophenyl or 2,4 difluorophenyl or 2,5 difluorophenyl or 4 trifluoromethylphenyl or 3,5 dichloro 4 methylpiperazinophenyl. Especially preferred novel compounds of the present invention include compounds 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 hereinabove. IMIDAZOL 4,5 f QUINOLINE PREPARATION The imidazol 4,5 f quinolines useful in the immune system enhancing method of the present invention can be prepared in the general manner described in a number of the articles and patents hereinbefore incorporated by reference. For example, Alaitno, Spencer, Scheffer,Storrin, Hatton and Kohls, Journal of Medicinal Chemistry, 21 3 , pp.298 300 1978 , referenced hereinbefore, disclose that a series of 2 arylimidazo 4,5 f quinolin 9 ols have been prepared by a multistep procedure from various 5amino benzimidazoles. Such a procedure is illustrated in Scheme I Scheme IEMI33.1 As showy in Scheme I, the imidazo 4,5 f quinolin 9 ols III were prepared by the condensation of a 5 5 amino 2 subtituted b benzimidazole I with the appropriate ss ketn e ester, followed by thenal cyclization of the resultant benzimidazolylacrylate I II in boiling Dowtherm A. An example of imidazo 4,5 f quinolinol synthesis of this type is provided in this journal article as follows PREPARATION EXAMPLE I 2 2 Furyl 7 methyl lH imidazo 4,5 f quinolin 9 ol TetartohydrateA. 2 2 Furyl 5 nitrobenzimidazole A mixture of 1,2 diamino 4 nitrobenzene 31 g, 0.2 mol and 2furancarboxaldehyde 25 g, 0.26 mol in 2 propanol is treated with p benzoguinone 24 g, 0.22 mol . The e reaction mixture is heated under reflux for 2 h. The reaction solution is diluted with water to precipitate the product. After drying, the crude product weighs 46 g 100 . Recrystallization from nitromethane provides an analytical sample which melts at 228 229C. Anal. Calcd for C11H7N303 C, 57.64 H, 3.08 N, 18.34. Found C, 57.55 H,3.04 N, 18.53.B. 3 2 2 Furyl 2 benzimidazolyl amino crotonate A solution of 2 2 furyl 5 nitrobenzimidazole 66 g, 0.29 mol in 2 propanol 500 mL is subjected to catalytic hydrogenation at 40 psi of initial pressure over Raney nickel catalyst. After the hydrogen uptake is complete, the catalyst is removed and the filtrate refluxed for 8 h with ethyl acetoacetate 38 g, 0.29 mol , anhydrous caSo4 100 g , and HOAc 20 mL . The CaS04 is removed and the filtrate concentrated in vacuo to give 66 g 74 of product. Recrystallization from nitromethane gives analytical material which melts at 177 l780C. Anal.Calod for C17H17N3O3 C, 65.58 H, 5.50 N, 13.50. Found C, 65.48 H, 5.47t N, 13.47.C. 2 2 Furyl 7 methyl 1H imidazol 4,5 f quinolin 9 ol Downtherm A 500 mL is preheated to 2300C and to it is added 3 2 2 furyl 5 benzimidazolyl amino crotonate 38.5 g, 0.1 mol in small portions. After the addition is complete, the reaction mixture is main tained at 2300C for 15 min and then poured into a beaker and allowed to cool. The precipitated product is filtered and washed thoroughly with hexane to give 20 g 74 . Recrystallization from nitromethane gives analytical material which melts at 280 2820C. Anal. Calcd forC15HllN302.0.25 H20 C, 66.78 H, 4.30 N. 15.58. Found C, 66.56 H, 4.43 N, 15.40. Imidazol 4,5 f quinolinol syntheses of the Scheme I type can also be found in the hereinbefore referenced U.S. Patent 3,868,378. Representative examples from this patent are set forth as follows in PreparationExamples II IV PREPARATION EXAMPLE II 2 2 Furyl 7 methyl 1H imidazo 4,5 f quinolin 9 ol Ietartohydrate A. N 2 Amino 4 nitrophenyl 2 furamide To a stirred solution of 4 nitro o phenylene diamine 76.5 g, 0.5 mole in 500 ml of pyridine, is added dropwise 2 furoyl chloride 65 g, 0.5 mole . After the addition is complete the reaction solution is stirred at room temperature for 15 minutes and then at reflux for 2 hr.The hot reaction solution is poured into 6 liters of water to give an oil, which solidifies upon standing overnight at room temperature to give 125 g 100 percent of yellow intermediate. The solid is used in part B without further purification.B. 2 2 Furyl 5 nitro benzimidazole A stirred mixture of N 2 amino 4 nitrophenyl 2 furamide 125 g, 0.5 mole in a solution of concentrated hydrochloric acid 400 ml and 850 ml of water is heated on a steam bath for 3 hr. The reaction mixture after pouring into 4 liters of ice is treated with concentrated ammonium hydroxide until basic. The intermediate is filtered to give 104 g 91 percent .C. 5 PJnino 2 2 furyl benzimidazole A solution of 2 2 furyl 5 nitrobenzimidazole 52 g, 0.2 mole in 1 liter of absolute ethyl alcohol is reduced Parr apparatus using 5 percent palladium on carbon 50 percent wet catalyst. An uptake of 44Ibs. 100 percent of theory of hydrogen in one half hr is noted.After the reduction is cplete the catalyst is removed by filtration. The e filtrate is used in part D. D. Ethyl 3 2 2 Furyl 5 benzimidazolylamino crotonate A stirred mixture of the filtrate from part C 0.45 mole , 100 g of anhydrous calcium sulfate, ethyl acetoacetate 58.5 g, 0.45 mole , and 3 ml of glacial acetic acid, is heated at reflux for 12 hours. The warm reaction mixture is filtered. The filtrate is stripped in vacuo to give an oil which is triturated with anhydrous ether to give, after filtration, 77 g of tan solid 55 percent . E. 2 2 Furyl 7 methyl 1H imidazol 4,5 f quinolin 9 ol Tetratohydrate To a preheated 2300 solution of Dowtherm 500 ml is added portionlwise 3 2 2 furyl 5 benzimidazolyl amino crotonate 38.5 g, 0.1 mole . After the addition is complete the reaction mixture is kept at 230 for 15 minutes, then decanted into a beaker to form, upon cooling, a tan precipitate. The precipitate is filtered and washed with hexane to give 20 g 74 percent of tan solid. Recrystallization from CH3NO2 gives m.p. 280 282 . Anal. Calcd. forC15H11N3O2 1 4H2O C, 66.78 H, 4.30 N, 15.58. Found C, 66.56t H, 4.43 N, 15.40. PREPARATION EXAMPLE III 8,9 Dihydro 2 phenyl 7H cyclopenta 2,3 1H imidazo 4,5 f quinolin 10 olA. Ethyl 2 2 phenyl 5 benzimidazolyl amino 1 cyclopentene carboxylate A mixture of 64 g 0.41 mole of ethyl 2 cyclopentanonecarboxgl ate, 86 g 0.41 moles of 2 phenyl 5 aminobenzimidazole, 100 g of anhydrous calcium sulfate, 0.5 ml of HOAC and 1000 ml of ethanol is refluxed overnight with stirring. The calcium sulfate is removed by filtration the ethanol filtrate concentrated to dryness in vacuo to yield 179 g of brown oil which solidifies upon standing.B. 8,9 Dihydro 2 phenyl 7H cyclopental 2,3 1H imidazo 4,5 f quinolin 10 ol To 1,700 ml of boiling Dowtherm is added 179 g 0.52 moles of ethyl 2 2phenyl 5 benzimidazolyl amino l cyclopentane carboxylate part A . The reaction mixture is heated at reflux for 30 min then allowed to cool to room temperature. The brown solid is collected by filtration, washed with Dowtherm, acetone and ether and then air dried to give 127g, m.p. 3500 3930C. The crude product is recrystallized from 500 ml of dimethylformamide with charcoal to give 60 g, m.p. 3690 3750C. Anal. Calcd for C19H15N3O C, 75.23 H, 5.02 N, 13.95. Found C, 75.27 H, 5.06 N, 13.84. PREPARATION EXAMPLE IV 7,8 Dimethyl 2 phenyl lH imidazo 4t5 f quinolin 9 ol Hemihydrate A. Ethyl 3 5 2 phenylbenzimidazolyl amino 2 methyl crotonate A mixture of 90 g 0.43 moles of 2 phenyl 5 aminobenzimidazole, 61g 0.43 moles of ethyl 2 methylacetoacetate, 100 g of anhydrous calcium sulfate, 0.5 ml of HOAc and 1,000 ml of ethanol is heated under reflux overnight. The e anhydrous calcium sulfate is filtered off and the ethanol filtrate concentrated in vacuo to give 143 g of brown oil.B. 7,8 Dimethyl 2 phenyl lH imidaZOf4,5 f qUinolin 9 Ol Hemihydrate Tb 1,500 ml of boiling Dowtherm is added 143 g 0.43 moles of ethyl 3 5 2 phenylbenzimidazolyl amino 2 methyl crotonate part A .The reaction mixture is heated at reflux for 30 min, then allowed to cool to room temperature. The crude product is collected by filtration, washed with Dowtherm, acetone, ether and oven dried 100 C to give 86 g, m.p. 328 338 C. Recrystallization from 1,000 ml of dimethylformamide H2O, with charcoal, yields 63 g. Anal. Calcd forC18H15N3O.l 2H2O C, 72.46 H, 5.41 N, 14.09, Found C, 72.85 H, 5.36, N, 14.13. Additional examples of imidazo 4,5 f quinolinol synthesis also of this type are disclosed in the processes utilized in the hereinbefore referenced U.S. Patent 3,919,238 to prepare 9 substituted amlno imidazo 4,5 f quino lines. These examples are set forth as follows PREPARATION EXAMPLE V 7 Methyl 2 phenyl 9 imidazol 4,5 f quinolinolA. 2,4 Dinitrophenylbenzamide To a solution of 73.2 g. 0.4 m. of 2,4 dinitroaniline in 400 ml.of pyridine with stirring and slight warming is added 56.2 g. 0.4 m. of benzoyl chloride in about 10 min. the temperature rises from 400 to 50 . Ihen the dark solution is heated at reflux for 2 1 2 hours.After standing overnight, the yellow solid is collected, washed withH20 until no pyridine odor is detectable. mis 90 g. of crude product is recrystallized from about 2.1 of CH3CN to yield 44 g. 38 of yellow product melting at 201 205 . B. 2 Phenyl 5 aminobenzimidazole A mixture of 44 g. 0.153 m. of 2,4 dinitrophenylbenzamide in 800 ml. of ethanol together with 6 g. of 5 Pd C containing 50 H20 is subjected to reduction. Absorption stops after 60.5 lb. of uptake of hydrogen theory 61.5 lb. in 2 1 2 hour. The reduction mixture is warmed on steam bath with the addition of about 2 1 2 1 ethanol. The mixture is then filtered hot and crystalline needles separate from the filtrate. This product is collected, washed with ethanol, ether and airdried m.p. 218 220 . Concentration of the filtrate yields more solid. The solids are combined and suspended in 250 ml. of H20 with the addition of 25 ml. of conc. Hcl. The mixture is then heated on the steam bath for 1 1 2 hours.After cooling, the reaction mixture is diluted with H20 to give a dark solution which, upon neutralization with conc. NH4OH, yields 30 g. 94 of tan solid after washing with H20 and drying at 1000. It decoposes at 2350 2500. C. Ethyl 3 5 2 phenylbenzamidazoylamino crotonate A mixture of 275 g. 1.32 m. of 2 phenyl 5 aminobenzimldazole, 171 g. 1.32 m. of ethyl acetoacetate, 200 g. of anhydrous calcium sulfate, 13 ml, of glacial HOAc and 3000 ml. of ethanol is refluxed overnight. After filtration the solution is concentrated in vacuo until a solid remains. Another run is made In the same manner and the products combined to give a total yield of 861 g.D. 7 Methyl 2 phenyl 9 imidazol 4,5 f quinolinol. To 8000 ml. of boiling Dowtherm R is added 430 g. 1.34 m. of ethyl 3 5 2 phenylbenzimidazoylamino crotonate. The reaction is heated at reflux for 90 min. then allowed to cool to room temperature. The crystalline solid is triturated in acetone, filtered and air dried to give 745 g. m.p. 147 172 . The crude product is recrystallized from 3000 ml. of dimethylformamide. The yield after oven drying 1000 is 69 g., m.p. 332 335 with decomposition. By diluting the dimethylformamide filtrate with H2O, another 188 g. is obtained, m.p. 1970 230e with decorposition, which is recrystallized from 700 ml. of dimethylformamide to yield 50 g. m.p. 332 336 with decomposition, Anal. Calcd. for C17H13N3O C, 74.16 H, 4.76 N, 15.27.Found C, 73.79 H, 4.68 N, 15.27. Spencer, Snyder and Alaimo, Journal of Heterocyclic Chemistry, 12 6 , pp. 1319 1321 1975 , incorporated by reference hereinbefore, disclose 9 chloro or hydroxy 2 and or 7 substituted imidazo 4,5 f quinolines. These compounds were synthesized by the reaction sequence shown in Scheme II Scheme IIEMI38.1 The Scheme II procedure is similar to that reported by Ishiwata andShiokawa Chemical pharmaceutical Bulletin, 17, pp. 2455 2460 1969 incorporated by reference hereinbefore with two variations the sequence started with 5 nitrobenzimidazoles I, and the intermediate 9 hydroxy imidazol 4,5 f quinolines IV were isolated and characterized.The starting nitrobenzimidazoles I were reduced catalytically and the resulting amino benzimidazoles, which were not isolated, were condensed with the appropriate ss ketoesters II to yield the crotonates, or cinnamates, III. Using boiling Dowtherm A, the esters III were cyclized to the corresponding µ hydroxyimidazof4,5 flquinolines IV. The hydroxy compounds IV were converted smoothly to the 9 chloroimidazo 4,5 f quinolines V with phosphorus oxychloride using DMF as a solvent, The Spencer et al., Journal of Heterocyclic Chemistry, 12 6 article also discloses the preparation of 9 hydroxyimidazof4,5 flquinoline achieved by the sequence shown in Scheme III Scheme IIIEMI39.1 As shown in Scheme III, catalytic redution of 5 nitrobenzimidazole I,R R1 H yielded 5 aminobenzimidazole which, without isolation, was condensed with diethyl ethoxymethylenernalonate VI to give diethyl 5 ben zimidazolyl aminomethylenemalonate VII . impound VII was cyclized thermally in boiling Dowtherm A to yield ethyl 9 hydroxy 1H imidazo 4,5 f quinoline 6 carboxylate VIII .Hydrolysis of VIII gave the free acid IX which was converted to 9 hydroxyimidazol 4,5 f quinoline IVf by decarboxylation in boiling quinaldine. Spencer, Snyder, Burch and Hatton, Journal of Medicinal Chemistry, 20 6 , pp. 829 833 1977 , incorporated by reference hereinbefore, disclose that a number of 9 substituted amino imidazo 4,5 f quinolines have been prepared from the above described 9 chloroimidazo 4,5 f quino lines. Such a reaction is shown in Scheme IV. Scheme IVEMI40.1 As shown in Scheme IV, these compounds were prepared by treating the appropriate 9 chloroimidazo 4,5 f quinoline I with the prerequisite amine in refluxing EtOH or DMF. The intermediates I were prepared by the method of Spencer et al. Journal of Heterocyclic Chemistry, 12 6 , pp. 1319 1321 1975 incorporated by reference hereinbefore . The hereinbefore referenced U.S. Patents 3,919,238 and 3,878,206 set forth a number of examples of synthesis of 9 substituted amino imidazo 4,5 f quinoline compounds which can be enployed in the method of the present invention. Pour representative examples, from U.S. Patent 3,919,238, are set forth as follows PREPARATION EXAMPLE VI 9 p Anisidino 7 phenyl lH imidazof4,5 f quinoline HydrochlorideA. Ethyl 3 5 Benzimidazolylamino cinnamate A solution of 900 ml. of ethanol and 82 g. 0.5 mole of nitro benzimidazole with 4 g. of 5 PdC, 50 H20 catalyst is reduced on the Parr Apparatus. A pressure drop of 104 psi. is observed calcd. 100 .After the reduction stopped, the bottle is removed from the apparatus, and the catalyst filtered. Then 96 g. 0.5 mole of ethylbenzoylacetate, 20 g. of anhydrous calcium sulfate and 0.5 ml. ofHOAc are added to the filtrate. The solution is refluxed for 2 hours and filtered. The filtrate is concentrated to a dark sticky resin.Crystallization is induced by scratching. The product after cooling is filtered, washed with ethanol and air dried. The product weighs 55 g.m.p. 1880 190 C. B. 7 Phenyl 1H imidazol 4,5 f quinolin 9 ol Into a 1000 ml. three necked flask equipped with a thermometer and heated with a mantle, 300 ml. of Dowtherm is heated to boiling, then 30 g. of A. is added. The solution is boiled for 10 mintues. The flask is removed from the mantle and allowed to cool. The product is filtered and washed with fresh Downterm, then acetone, and air dried. The product weighs 10 g. m.p. 3000C. Bour more runs are made. All five runs combine into one large sample containing 58 g. This sample is recrystallized from dimethylformamide. The product weighs 43 g.m.p. 318 320 C.C. 9 Chloro 7 phenylimidazo 4,5 f quinoline TO a mixture of 121 g. 0.46 m. of B. and 424 ml. 712 g. 4.6 m. of POCl3 is added dropwise over 3 r., 848 ml. of dimethylformamide. The yellow mixture is allowed to stir overnight then poured into 5 liters of ice. The yellow precipitate is collected by filtration, washed with cold H20 and air dried to give 161 g.Following a trituration in 500 ml. of 2NNaOH solution, the product is filtered, wasched with H2O and oven dried 100 C to yield 118 g. m.p.229 400 C, slow decomposition. Anal. Calcd. for C16H10ClN3 C, 58.70 H, 3.60 N, 15.02 cl, 12.68. Found C, 69.04 H, 3.63 N, 15.07 C1, 12.59.D. 9 pAnisidino 7phenyl 1H imidazo 4, 5 f quinoline Hydrochloride A mixture of 27.98 g. 0.1 m. of C., 12.3 g. 0.1 m. of p anisidine and 200 ml. of dimethylformamide is refluxed with stirring overnight. The reaction mixture is chilled, filtered and air dried to give 49 g. me crude product is recrystallized from 1000 ml. of ethanol, with charcoal, then concentrated to one half its volume and chilled. A second recrystallization from 250 ml. of dimethylformamide yields 19 g. It is then stirred in hot water, filtered and oven dried 1000C to give 17 g. Anal. Calcd. for C23H18N4O.HCl C, 68.57 H, 4.75 N, 13.91 C1, 8.60. Found C, 68.81. H, 4.72 N, 13.97 C1, 7.24. PREPARATION EXAMPLE VII 9 p Anisidino 1H imidazo 4,5 f quinoline Hydrochloride TetartohydrateA. Ethyl 9 Hydroxy 1H imidazo 4,5 f quinoline 9 carboxylate An 82 g. portion 0.5 mole of 5 nitrobenzimidazole in 1 1 of ethanol is reduced over 5 g. of 5 palladium charcoal catalyst containing 50 water. The reduction stops after a pressure drop of 97 psig. 97 in 75 min. The catalyst is filtered, 108 g. 0.5 mole of diethoxymethylene malonate is added to the filtrate and the solution is boiled in an open flask until about one half of the solvent has boiled away ca. 2 hr. . The product sets to a solid cake upon cooling.Ethanol containing a little water is added to assist in breaking up the cake and the product is filtered, washed with cold ethanol H2O 3 1 and air dried yield, 125 g. 83 . A 50 g. portion of this anil is added to 500 ml. of boiling Dowtherm over a 3 4 min. period and boiling is continued 4 min. longer. After a alpha to room temperature the product is filtered, washed with Dow , then benzene and air dried 44 g. of crude product is obtained. Extraction of this material with 500 ml. of boiling ethanol gives 22 g., m.p. 3150 3160C.B. 9 Hydroxyimidazo 4,5 f quinoline 8 carboxylic Acid A mixture of 356 g. 1.384 mole of A. and 3000 ml. of 2N NaOH solution is heated at reflux for 3 hours. The solution is stirred for hour with charcoal, filtered, and acidified with 509 ml. of concentratedHC1. The crude product is collected by filtration, washed with H2O, then acetone, and air dried to give 380 g. m.p. 304 308 . After dissolving 40 g. of the crude product in 3000 ml. of dimethyl formaaide, with charcoal, the filtrate is diluted with 3000 ml. ofH2O. It is then filtered, washed with acetone and oven dried 1000 to give 35.5 g. A second recrystallization from 3000 ml. of dimethylformamide, with charcoal and concentration of the filtrate to a volume of 500 ml. yields 29 g. m.p. 358 360 . Anal. Calcd. for C11H7N303 C, 57.64 H, 3.08 N, 18.34. Pound C, 57,65 H, 3.05 N, 18.12.C. 9 Imidazo 4,5 f quinolinol A mixture of 254 g. 1.108 mole of B. and 1400 ml. of quinaldine is heated at reflux for 9 hours while passing nitrogen into the mixture.The brown solid is collected by filtration, washed with benzene and.airdried to give 183 g. It is then suspended in 3000 ml. of H2O, and 150 ml. of conc. HCl added to pH 2.5. After stirring for 60 min. the solution is filtered. The filtrate is chilled to 200C, and conc. NH4OH added to a pH 8 pH 9. The brown precipitate is collected by filtration, washed with H20 and oven dried 100 C to yield 182 g.m.p. 3660 3680C. Anal. Calcd. for CloH7N3O C, 64.86 H, 3.81t N, 22.69.Found C, 64.88 H, 3.82 N, 22.69.D. 9 Chloroimidazo 4,5 f quinoline To a mixture of 150 g. 0.813 mole of C. and 743 ml. 1244 g. 8.13 mole of POCl3 is added dropwise over 5 hours, 1486 ml. of dimethyl formamide. The brown mixture is allowed to stir overnight at room temperature then slowly poured into 5 liters of ice. The solution is basified to pH 8 using 2800 ml. of conc. NH4OH. It is then filtered, washed with water and air dried to give 304 g. The e crude product is dissolved in 16 liters of MeQH filtered hot to remove the insolubles, and the MeOH filtrate concentrated in vacuo to give 141 g.A second recrystallization from 4000 ml. of MeOH, with charcoal, yields 82.5 g. Anal. Calcd. for C10H5C1N3 C, 59.27t H, 2.49 N, 20.74, C1, 17.50. Found C, 58.99 H, 2.99 N, 20.69 C1, 17.09.E. 9 p Anisidino 1H imidazo 4,5 f quinoline HydrochlorideTetartohydrate A mixture of 20.3 g. 0.1 mole of D., 12.3 g. 0.1 mole of panisidine and 250 ml. of ethanol is refluxed with stirring for 10 hours.The reaction solution is chilled and the solid collected by filtration, washed with ether and air dried. The crude product is recrystallized from 4000 ml. of ethanol with charcoal to yield 19 g. Anal. cold. for C17H14N4O.HCl 1 4H2O C, 61.63 H, 4.72 N, 16.91 c1, 10.70. Found C, 61.38 H, 5.08 N. 16.91 cl, 10.91. PREPARATION EXAMPLE VIII 9 p Anisidino 7 methyl 2 phenyl 1H imidazo 4,5 fquinoline Hydrochloride HemihydrateA. 9 chloro 7 methyl 2 phenylimidazo 4,5 f quinoline To a mixture of 88 g. 0.32 m. of 7 methyl 2 phenyl 9 imidazo 4,5 f quinolinol Example V D above and 293 ml. 481 g. 3.2 m. ofPOCl3 is added slowly 586 ml. of dimethylformamide. Following the completion of the addition, stirring is continued overnight at room temperature. it is then poured into 4 liters of ice. The crude product is precipitated hy the addition of 1200 ml. of conc. NH4OH to pH 8.n. It is collected by filtration, washed with M2 and air dried to give 154 g. m.p. 136 250 C, slow decomposition. After dissolving the crude product in 5 liters of MESH, the MeOH filtrate is concentrated to a volume of 750 ml. and chilled. The yield after oven drying 100 C is 41 g. A second recrystallization from 2000 ml. of MeOH and followed by concentration to one half its volume yields 28 g. Anal. Calcd. for C17H12C1N3 C, 69.51 H, 4.12 N, 14.31 C1, 12.07. Pound C, 69.38 H, 4.27 N, 14.32 C1, 12.22.B. 9 p Anisidino 7 methyl 2 phenyl lH imidazot4,5 f quiinoline Hydrochloride Pemihydrate A mixture of 17.5 g. 0.06 m. of A., 7.4 g. 0.06 m. of p anisidine and 250 ml. of dimethylformamide is refluxed with stirring overnight. The reaction mixture is chilled, filtered, washed with ether and air dried to give 23 g. m.p. 2150 3150C. The crude product is recrystallized from 1000 ml. of ethanol to yield 17 g. Anal. Calcd. for C24H20N4O.HCl.1 2H2O C, 67.58 H, 5.21 N, 13.16 Cl, 8.33. Found C, 67.40 H, 5.53 N, 13.21 C1, 8.00. PREPARATION EXAMPLE IX 9 p Anisidino 2,7 dimethyl 1H imidazo 4,5 f quinoline HydrochlorideA. Ethyl 3 5 2 Methylbenzimidazolyl amino crotonate To a mixture of 90 g. 0.49 m. of 5 amino 2 methylbenzimidazole hydrochloride in 1500 ml. of MeOH and 50 ml. of H20 is added portionwise 150 g. of NaHC03. The mixture is refluxed for 60 minutes, then cooled and filtered. The filtrate is heated on a steam bath until the MeOH had boiled off then cooled and filtered to remove the solid mostly Nacl . After the addition of ethanol to the filtrate, the mixture is again heated on a steam bath to a low volume, cooled and filtered. The filtrate is concentrated in vacuo to give a dark, glassy solid. After adding 300 ml. of benzene, 200 ml. of ethanol, 65 g. 0.5 n. of ethyl acetoacetate and a quantity of anhydrous calcium sulfate, the mixture is refluxed 3 hours. It is then filtered hot and concentrated in vacuo to a dark gummy residue. the crude product is dissolved in 200 ml. of ethanol and precipitated with 300 ml. of H2O to yield 54 g., m.p. 140 C 144 C of white needles. B. 2,7 Dimethyl 1H imidaza 4,5 f quinolin 9 To 1500 ml, of boiling Dowtherm is added portionwise 105 g. 0.406 m. of ethyl 3 5 2 methylbenzimidazolyl amino crotonate. The reaction mixture is heated at reflux for 30 minutes, then allowed to cool to room temperature. The brown solid is collected by filtration, washed with Dowtherm, acetone and then air dried to give 70 g, m.p. 4000C. The crude product is recrystallized from 2500 ml. of dimethylformamide to yield 37.5 g. m.p. 400 C.C. 9 Chloro 2,7 dimethylimidazo 4,5 f quinoline To a mixture of 31 g. 0.146 m. of 2,7 dimethyl lH imidazo 4,5 f quinoline 9 ol and 1336 ml. 223 g. 1455 m. of PCC13 is added dropwise 267.2 ml, of dimethylformamide. The mixture is stirred overnight at room temperature, then poured into 1000 ml. of ice. The solution is basified to pH 8.0 using conc. NH40H, keeping the temperature below 20 C. It is then filtered, washed with H20 and air dried. me crude product is requitallized from 2000 ml. of MeOH, and concentrated in vacuo to yield 338 g. m.p. 3l40 3300C. D. 9 p Anisidino 2,7 dimethyl 1H imidazo 4,5 f quinolineHydrochloride A mixture of 18.5 g. 0.08 m. of 9 chloro 2,7 dimethylimidazo 4,5 f quinoline, 9.85 g. 0.08 m. of panisidine and 300 ml. of ethanol is refluxed, with stirring, overnight. The solution is concentrated in vacuo to give 27 g. m.p. 307 3110C. Recrystallization from 300 ml. of MeOH yields 13 g. m.p. 3170 3180C. Anal. Calcd. for C19H18N4O .HCl C, 64.31 H, 5.40 N, 15.79 C1, 9.99. Found C, 64.46 H, 5.47 N, 15.77 Cl, 9.92. The novel 9 substituted amino imidazo 4,5 f quinoline compounds of the present invention can be prepared by one of ordinary skill in the art utilizing the general synthesis methods described above. Such methods can be carried out in a manner similar to that set forth inPreparation Examples I IX using appropriately substituted carnercially available or easily synthesized starting materials. Another aspect of the present invention is a composition in dosage unit form for enhancing the immune response system of mammals comprising an effective but nontoxic amount of the novelImidazo 4,5 g quinolines having immunomodulating activity disclosed hereinabove. The composition is preferably adapted to systemic administration to mammals. As used wherein, the term pharmaceutical carrier denotes a solid or liquid filler, diluent, or encapsulating substance. Some examples of the substances which can serve as pharmaceutical carriers are sugars, such as lactose, glucose, and sucrose starchs, such as corn starch and potato starch cellulose and its derivatives, such as sodium carboxymethylcellulose, ethylcel lulose, and cellulose acetate powdered tragacanth malt gelatin talc stearic acid magnesium stearate calcium sulfate vegetable oils, such as peanut oil, cottonseed oil, sesame oil, olive oil, corn oil, and oil of theobroma polyols, such as propylene glycol, glycerin, sorbitol, manitol, and polyethyleneglycol agar alginic acid pyrogen free water isotonic salines and phosphate buffer solutions as well as other nontoxic compatible substances used in pharmaceutical formulations. Wetting agents and lubricants, such as sodium lauryl sulphate, as well as coloring agents, flavoring agents and preservatives, can also be present. The pharmaceutical carrier employed in conjunction with the immunomodulator imidazo 4,5 f quinolines is used at a concentration sufficient to provide a practical size to dosage relationsllip Preferably, the pharmaceutical carrier comprises from about 0.1 to about 99 by weight of the total composition. Preferred dosage unit forms of the compositions of the present invention include capsules, tablets, solutions, and suspensions to be administered orally and solutions and suspensions to be administered parenterally. Preferred dosage unit forms include solutions and suspensions to be administered pa rente rally comprising from about 10 mg to about 500 mg of a novel immunomodulator Imidazo 4,5 f quinoline and a suitable pharmaceutical carrier more preferred is such a dosage unit form comprising from about 50 mg to about 200 mg of such compound. Other preferred dosage unit forms include capsules and tablets each comprising from about 50 mg to about 2000 mg of a novel immunomodulator imidazo 4,5 f quinoline and a suitable pharmaceutical carrier more preferred is such a dosage unit form comprising from about 100 mg to about 500 mg of such compound. While particulars embodiments of the present invention have been described, it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that various changes and modifications to the compounds and compositions disclosed herein can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. It is intended to cover, in the appended claims, all such modifications that are within the scope of this invention.