# A digital transducer.

## Abstract
A digital transducer, which can be engaged with a rotary or rotating shaft comprises a rotating sector 16 provided with apertures or perforations 16a arranged according to arcs on different radiuses, having predetermined angular extension according to a binary code with a selected number of components corresponding to the number of bands of apertures on the different radiuses, information areas being defined for each aperture set positioned on different radiuses included in a predetermined angle. It advantageously provides, in an area adjacent to the information areas, a set of auxiliary apertures or slots 30 arranged according to arcs with the same angular extension, all aligned on the same angle, an aperture being provided at each information band.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A digital transducer, which can be mounted on a rotary or rotating shaft 18 comprising a rotating sector 16 provided with apertures or perforations 16a arranged according to arcs on different radiuses, having predetermined angular extension according to a binary code with a selected number of components corresponding to the number of bands of apertures on the different radiuses, information areas being defined for each aperture set positioned on different radiuses included in a predetermined angle characterized by comprising in an area adjacent to the information areas, a set of auxiliary apertures or slots 30 arranged according to arcs with the same angular extension, all aligned on the same angle, an aperture being provided at each information band. 2. A transducer as claimed in Claim 1, characterized by being pack mounted, separately from its own containing box 29, 33 , that is the shaft 18 carrying the rotating sector 16 is inserted in a carrying plate 11 provided with a hub 12 and suitable to receive and center the collimator 14 , said shaft being centered within the plate hub, then the whole is closed by a pressure crown or rim 21 , two printed circuits being provided as mounted one 25 outside the carrying plate 11 and the other 23 outside the pressure crown or rim 21 . 3. A transducer as claimed in Claim 2, characterized in that said carrying plate 11 comprises a lug or projection 15 concentric with said hub 12 , the side wall of which acts as a centering seat 13 for said collimator 14 , whereas the height thereof defines the distance or spacing between said rotating sector 16 and collimator 14 . 4. A transducer as claimed in Claim 3, characterized in that said lug or projection 15 at least partly comprises antifriction material. 5. A transducer as claimed in Claim 2, characterized in that said lug or projection 15a serves only to define the centering of said collimator 14 , while the distance or spacing between the latter and said rotating sector 16 is defined by a spacer or thickness 32 , particularly of antifriction material.

## Description
A DIGITAL TRANSDUCER This invention relates to a rotary digital transducer, that is a device usually referred to as encoder, which supplies the absolute angular position of a rotary body, being this position sensed by photodetectors responsive to light emitted by LED light emitter diodes which selectively appears and disappears from slits provided on a rotary or rotating sector.As well known, such transducers suffer from the disadvantage of having to be calibrated by suitable devices which make the response of each sensor consistent with the law according to which the apertures have been made in the angular sector. This calibration, which is normally very time consuming, is one of the elements causing a relevant increase in the transducer cost.It is another disadvantage that the conventional construction of the transducer provides also for a self supporting container.Therefore, this obliges the assembling of the whole apparatus within said container.It is a further disadvantage that a positive positioning between the collimator and the perforated rotating sector is difficult.The EP A O 028 138 describes a digital angular transducer, apt to be mounted on a rotating shaft, which comprises a rotary or rotating sector provided with apertures or perforations arranged according to arcs on different radiuses, with a predetermined angular extension according to a selected binary code having a number of components corresponding to the number of bands of apertures provided on different radiuses. In this way information areas are defined for each set of apertures positioned on different radiuses, included in a predetermined angle.This transducer does not have any sector suitably arranged for the calibration in order to match the response of each sensor with the law according to which the apertures have been made. In particular all the perforations are used for the coding, none for the initial calibration operation, which is always necessary in particular in the high level precision transducers. Furthermore the calibration process of this transducer is not described at all in the document.It is the primary object of the present invention to provide a transducer, in which the calibration time is extremely reduced with respect to the time presently required. It is another object of the present invention to provide a transducer, in which the assembling times are much less than those at present required.The primary object has been achieved by providing on the perforated sector, at a zone not involved by the usual perforations, a series of radially arranged slots, all of which have a same angular excursion, each of them being arranged at each information portion.An advantage which is obtained by positioning a set of auxiliary arranged slots is that, an operation check can be carried out in any desired moment, that is during the use or when the instrument accommodating the transducer is switched on.In fact by providing said set of auxiliary apertures in a position corresponding to LEDs and photodetector, it is possible to check their efficiency and to signal every malfunction.It is also provided that the transducer is pack mounted, separately from its own containing box, that is the rotating sector carrying shaft is inserted in a supporting plate provided with hub and capable of receiving and centering the collimator, said carrying shaft being centered within the plate hub, then the whole is closed by a pressure crown or rim, two printed circuits being provided as mounted one outside of the carrying plate, and the other outside of the pressure crown or rim.A further improvement provides that the carrying plate includes a projection concentric to the hub, which provides the positioning of the rotating sector with respect to the collimator disc.The invention will now be further explained with reference to some exemplary embodiments that have been shown in the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 1 is a sectional view of a transducer according to the present invention Fig. 2 is a view showing a detail of Fig. 1 Figs. 3 and 4 are views similar to Fig. 1, showing possible changes to the embodiment of Fig. 1 andFig. 5 is a view of a rotating sector.The transducer, denoted as a whole at 10, comprises a carrying plate 11 provided with a hub 12. It has a centering seat 13, in which the collimator 14 is received, providing the concentricity thereof with the axis of shaft 18 carrying the rotating sector 16.The angular position of the collimator 14 is defined by a pin 28 , providing the exact position of the collimating slots at the photodetectors 26.The plate 11 is provided with a lug or projection 15, having the rotating perforated sector 16 bearing thereon, and which is keyed on a rotary shaft 18 made integral therewith by a small plate 17 connected to said shaft 18 by means of rivets 19. Said shaft 18 is centered in the carrying plate 11 through a single long bush 20 inserted in said hub 12, which is sufficient to endure the radial loads. The axial distance between said collimator 14 and rotating sector 16 is defined by said lug ,or projection 15. The collimator 14 is kept in place by the pressure crown or rim 21, which is provided with a threaded dowel 22 to adjust the pressure being exerted by the crown or rim on shaft 18.The pressure crown or rim 21 also clamps said collimator and its peripheral portion. It also serves as a support for the printed circuit 23 comprising the LEDs 24.On the opposite outer wall, said carrying plate 11 supports a further printed circuit 25 comprising the photodetectors 26, connector 27 and further known electronic material.Thus, the whole is completely self bearing and also able to operate. Therefore, calibrations and other operating tests can be effected thereon.As a protection against any environmental factors, the assembly 10 thus provided may be enclosed within a box 29 with cover 33.Said sector 16 Fig. 1 and 5 , in addition to usual transduction perforations 16a, is also provided with a set of apertures 30 in a same number as said LEDs and photodetectors. They are of same angular dimensions, and accordingly increasing actual dimensions from center to periphery. Thus, it is possible to provide for calibration of the photodetector by only checking the simultaneous response thereof at the calibrating slots. In this case, it is only required to continuously displace the sector by a very small angle, varying the calibration resistance of the photodetectors until the latter will all together match or react both to light and shadow produced by the series of calibrating apertures 30, which are all perfectly coincident in angular direction. Fig. 3 is similar to Fig. 2, but therein an antifriction ring 31 is interposed between said sector 16 and lug or projection 15a.Another solution is shown in Fig. 4, according to which the distance or spacing between said collimator 14 and rotating sector 16 is defined by an antifriction ring 32 having the desired height.Said collimator 14 and sector 16 may be made in different ways. For example, instead of being of cutout metal, as herein assumed, they may comprise transparent material made opaque by a photosensitive layer some zones of which are removed by photographic process, thus creating transparent zones for light passage.Other methods for dulling of a transparent material are provided by vacuum metal depositing, or by a screening process or by paint deposit by a silk screen.