# Adhesion characterization test site.

## Abstract
A test site for gauging the adhesion between the insulating layers and the metal layers used to produce the various devices on a semiconductor chip. The chip sized test site can be formed along with the product chips on the product wafers. The layers of the test site are arranged such that a first polyimide layer 16 forms a first test interface with a silicon nitride layer 12 and a second test interface with a first metal layer 14A, 14B , and a second polyimide layer 20 forms a third test interface with a second metal layer 18A, 18B , a fourth test interface with the first polyimide layer 16 , and a fifth test interface with the silicon nitride layer 12 . These five interfaces form a single continuous adhesion test interface ATI . During a 90 peel test, the layers of the test site will sequentially separate along this interface ATI . Thus, the adhesion at five different interfaces can be tested during a single peel test on a chip sized test site.

## Claims
1. A test site for gauging the adhesions between the layers used in forming a multi layered semiconductor chip, comprising

## Description
The invention relates to a test site and method for determining the adhesive characteristics of the various materials used in processing a semiconductor chip. During the course of the processing of semiconductor chips, a plurality of insulative, metallizing and passivating layers are deposited on the surface of a semiconductor substrate to form the various devices on each chip. These various layers must exibit some degree of adhesion to one another. If this interlayer adhesion is insufficient, moisture or other impurities can penetrate the seams between layers, causing corrosion or other impurity induced phenomena which adversely affect the performance of the resulting chip. Accordingly, various methods have been developed for testing the adhesion between layers used to form a semiconductor device. An article by C. Altman et al Measuring Adhesion of Thin Films , IBM Technical Disclosure Bulletin, Vol. 12, No. 10, March 1970, p. 1674 discloses a method of measuring the adhesion between a film and a substrate, in which a testor is bonded to the film and an upward force is imparted thereto to pull the film away from the substrate. A more common testing method commonly referred to as a peel test involves cleaving a film to expose the seam between the film and the substrate and peeling the film away from the substrate. In a 90 peel test , the angle between the peeled film and the film remaining on the substrate is approximately 90 . Heretofore, this peel test has been performed on a single layer test structure. For example, a semiconductor wafer having a silicon nitride coating is covered with eight strips of insulative material. By performing a peel test on each strip of the wafer, eight interfaces per wafer can be tested. It has been found that test wafers constructed in the manner described above are inefficient when used to monitor wafer lot processes. One disadvantage is that only eight interfaces are tested on each test wafer. Another disadvantage is that each test wafer only tests one type of interface for example, if insulator metal and insulator insulator interfaces were to be tested, two different test wafers would have to be produced. The invention as claimed solves the problem of how to provide an improved test structure for determining the adhesion between layers used in a semiconductor manufacturing process. As a test site it should be useable to monitor a plurality of interfaces during a single peel test. In summary the invention results in an Extended Adhesion Characterization Test Site EXACTS which provides for adhesion characterization between the insulator layers and the remaining layers as well as between the insulator layers used to form multi layered semiconductive devices. The test site has a semiconductive substrate which is covered by a silicon nitride layer. A first metal layer is formed on the nitride layer, and a first insulator layer is formed on the nitride layer and a portion of the first metal layer, forming first and second test interfaces therewith, respectively. A second metal layer is formed on the first metal layer and the first insulator layer, and a second insulator layer is coated over the entire device. The second insulator layer forms a third test interface with the first insulator layer, and a fourth test interface with the second metal layer. During a 90 peel test, the two insulator layers are peeled away from the underlying layers along the above described four test interfaces. Thus, the strength of the adhesions between a plurality of layers can be determined by the use of a single test site which is the same size as a product chip. The invention will become more apparent upon a description of embodiments for carrying out the present invention. In the description to follow, reference will be made to the accompanying drawing, in which Fig. 1 not to scale presents a cross sectional view of one embodiment of the test site of the invention. Note that this cross sectional view is not drawn to scale. A layer of silicon nitride 12 is formed on a semiconductive wafer 10 using typical techniques. An aluminum layer 14 is formed on the silicon nitride layer 12 by deposition or other techniques. Note that aluminum is given by way of example that is, metal layer 14 could be made of other metals or alloys which have adhesion characteristics as will be discussed in more detail below. Metal layer 14 is patterned by etching through a mask to form test regions 14A and support regions 14B. Note that support regions 14B of the first metal layer are not used during the adhesion test. Metal layer 14 is then covered by a first insulator layer 16. Insulator layer 16 comprises any one of a number of known insulative materials, such as polyimide. The first insulator layer is patterned so that a portion of the upper surface of test region 14A of metal layer 14 is exposed. In addition, the first insulator layer 16 is etched so that a portion of the silicon nitride layer 12 is also exposed. A second aluminum layer 18 is then formed on the upper surface of the first insulator layer 16. Similarly to the first metal layer, the second metal layer 18 is patterned to form test regions 18A and support regions 18B. As shown in Fig. 1, test region 18A of metal layer 18 partially covers the exposed portion of the first metal layer test region 14A. Finally, a second insulator layer 20 e.g., a passivation layer composed of an insulator such as polyimide is coated over the entire test site. Note that the portion of the silicon nitride layer 12 which remained exposed after the deposition of the first insulator layer 16 is now covered by the second insulator layer 20. In addition, note that the second insulator layer 20 covers a portion of the first insulator layer 16 which remained exposed after the formation of the second metal layer test region 18A. Finally, note that the passivation layer 20 covers the remainder of the exposed surface of the first metal layer test region 14A which was not covered by the second metal layer test region 18A. The test site as described above can be formed during back end of line BEOL processing of the product wafers. In other words, the specific layers as described above are the same as those used in forming the product chips. Thus, the test site of the invention can be formed concurrently with the product chips on the same wafer. In addition, since the test site is the same size as the chips, approximately 140 test sites can be produced on one wafer. The operation of the test site of the invention will now be described with reference to Fig. 2. Note that this figure is not drawn to scale. In general, a conventional 90 peel test is conducted on the test site, using equipment such as the Instron material testing system marketed by the Instron Corporation of Massachusetts. The test site is cleaved along line C in Fig. 1. A force approximately orthogonal to the plane of substrate 10 is then applied by the peel test equipment to the cleaved ends of the layers as signified by arrow P in Fig. 2 . The force resisting peel i.e. the adhesion between layers is determined by a transducer which provides an electrical signal representative of the force expended during peel. This signal is sent to a display such as a CRT screen or a chart recorder. The display produces a graph of peel resistance force versus distance, as shown in Fig. 2. The test site of the invention is used to test the adhesion at discrete layer interfaces hereinafter referred to as test interfaces . The layers are configured i.e. etched such that each test interface is of a length ranging from approximately 200 to 800 µm sufficient to provide a discrete force reading. Note that in Fig. 2, test interface 100 is the interface between the silicon nitride layer 12 and the first insulator layer 16. Test interface 200 is the interface between the first metal layer test portion 14A and the first insulator layer 16. Test interface 300 is the interface between the second metal layer test portion 18A and the second insulator layer 20. Test interface 400 is the interface between the first insulator layer 16 and the second insulator layer 20. Finally, test interface 500 is the interface between silicon nitride layer 12 and the second insulator layer 20. The layers of the test site sequentially separate along test interfaces 100 500. Thus, the interfaces collectively form a single continuous adhesion test interface hereinafter referred to as the ATI . Several factors insure that the layers of the test site will separate along the ATI. One factor is the respective adhesions between the layers. That is, the composition of the layers is preselected such that separation will occur along the ATI. For example, the composition of metal layer 14 e.g. aluminum is selected such that the layers will separate along test interface 200 rather than separating between metal layer 14 and nitride layer 12. Similarly, the composition of metal layer 18 is preselected such that the layers will separate along test interface 300 rather than separating between second metal layer 18 and first insulator layer 16. In addition to aluminum, the inventors have noted that alloys of aluminum e.g. 95 Al, 5 Cu 94 Al, 5 Cu, 1 Si 85 Al, 10 Ti, 5 Cu refractory metals such as tungsten, titanium or molybdenum and any other metallizations in which the metal is fused during processing to an underlying layer, can be used in the invention. Another factor determining layer separation is the specific placement of the layers. That is, when the respective layers are arranged in the manner as shown in Figs. 1 and 2, the resulting ATI provides adhesion characterization between the insulative layers layers 16 and 20 and each of the remaining layers layers 12, 14A and 18A , as well as between insulator layers layers 16 and 20 used to form a product chip. Finally, a third factor is the composition of the first and second insulator layers. At all times, these layers must have a stress strain characteristic such that they will not cleave as they are being peeled away from the wafer. The inventors have noted that any sort of organic resin insulator e.g. polyimide provides these characteristics. When the peel test is initiated, the test site is cleaved along line C to expose the start of the ATI such that the layers will separate along the first test interface 100 when an upward peel force P is applied to the cleaved layers. As shown in Fig. 2, the adhesion between these two layers is relatively high i.e. approximately 22 23 grams mm . When the first insulator layer has been completely separated from silicon nitride layer 12 along test interface 100, the first insulator layer 16 separates from the first metal layer test portion 14A along test interface 200, and a lower peel resistive force i.e. approximately 19 20 grams mm is observed. This process continues until all of the layers separate along the ATI. Fig. 3 is a cross sectional view of another embodiment of the invention. Again, note that this cross sectional view is not drawn to scale. As shown in Fig. 3, layer 16 is extended so that the second insulator 20 does not form a fifth test interface 500 with silicon nitride layer 12. That is, the ATI is made up of test interfaces 100 400 as described above. Thus, as described above, the test site of the invention can be used to provide measurements of the adhesions between preselected ones of the layers used to manufacture the product chips. A feature of the invention is that since the test site is the same size as the product chips and is formed by the same layers used to produce the various devices on the product chip, the test site can be formed on a product wafer. Thus, the test site can be used to monitor lot to lot and wafer to wafer variations, to more accurately track the line process. It is re emphasized that the particular compositions of the layers as disclosed above are given by way of example. That is, any sort of metal or insulator can be substituted for the metals insulators disclosed, so long as they meet the above described adhesion stress strain criteria, respectively.