# ENTRAINMENT OF EXOGENOUS MATERIALS IN CHEESE CURDS

## Claims
Verfahren zur Verbesserung der Menge an Protease oder Lipase, die in Käsebruch aus Milch überführt wird, dadurch

## Description
The present invention relates to a novel process for entraining exogenous materials, such as microbial enzymes, substantially into cheese curds. Exogenous material and material complexes having a particle size equal to or greater than 0.20 microns are preferentially partitioned into the cheese curds, hereinafter microns means µm. Accelerated ripening of cheese to improve cost efficiency through reduction of storage time is important to the cheese industry. Techniques which are currently being evaluated include elevation of storage temperature, culture modifications, addition of exogenous enzymes and combinations thereof. Accelerated ripening has limited commercial value due to inherent problems in controlling available techniques. For example, the use of elevated temperatures, often results in problems which include microbial spoilage and development of an imbalance flavor profile, i.e., one not representative of the variety of cheese in question. Exogenous enzyme addition is one route that has been used to accelerate ripening because many cheese varieties in the past have been matured by the action of endogenous enzymes associated with milk microflora. However, a problem with exogenous enzyme addition is that soluble enzymes, added to milk before renneting are evenly distributed. Because curds constitute only a small fraction of the milk volume, the majority of the added enzyme is lost to the much greater volume of whey produced during the cheese making process. Not only is there an uneconomical loss of enzyme, but the resulting whey may be of questionable quality due to excessive fat protein breakdown from the exogenous enzyme. Enzymes could be added directly to the curd before pressing by addition to the salt added during pressing or by spraying a liquid enzyme preparation onto the curds. However, post renneting addition does not allow for the uniform incorporation of enzyme throughout the curd particles. Furthermore, these methods of distribution are exceedingly difficult to carry out at a factory scale unless special equipment and procedures are employed. In US A 4,310,554, there is disclosed a process of entraining exogeneous materials into cheese curds by adding an insoluble exogeneous material which is in the form of microcapsules which may contain enzymes. In Journal of Dairy Science, Vol. 64, No. 4, pages 616 621, there is also disclosed the use of microencapsulated enzyme systems to accelerate ripening of cheese. In Dairy Industries International, Vol. 5, No. 45, pages 15, 17, 20, 22 and 48, the accelerated ripening of cheese by the incorporation therein of enzymes is described. According to the present invention there is provided a process for improving the amount of protease or lipase which is entrained into cheese curds from milk comprising Initial partitioning studies were conducted using exogenous lipases from both microbial and animal sources. The solubility of these lipases was determined by filtering a liquid enzyme mix through a 0.20 micron Millipore filter. The filtrate was measured for enzymatic activity, which is expressed in Table 1 as a percentage of the initial activity of the filtered mix. Table 1 shows clearly that known microbial lipases are soluble, and that only the Genencor microbial lipase is insoluble along with the animal lipases. For this disclosure, all lipolytic activity was measured in the following manner. If curds, rather than liquids were being used, weighed samples were first homogenized with tributyrin substrate. Potentiometric titration is performed so as to determine lipase forestomach units LFUs . One LFU equals the activity that releases 1.5µ mol of butryric acid per minutes, Food Chemical Codex 3rd, Ed., National Academic Press, 1981. The titration substrate is prepared by dispersing an amount of sodium caseinate equivalent to 600 mg of casein, in 95 ml of water contained in a 0.284 ℓ one half pint freezer jar that fits the head of a suitable high speed blender. This is mixed with 0.5 gm of hydroxylated lecithin. Finally, 5.0 ml of Tri n butyrin is added and mixed for 60 seconds at low speed. This substrate must be held to 33 C and used within 4 hours. The sample is prepared by suspending or dissolving an accurately weighed amount of enzyme in water. To measure, the titrator is filled with 0.05 N sodium hydroxide, and the instrument is calibrated following the manufacturer s instructions. The substrate is mixed for about 15 seconds with a magnetic stirrer, then 20.0 ml is pipetted into the reaction vessel of the titrator. One ml of the sample is added and equilibrated for 15 minutes. The rate at which the titrant was delivered during the titration, is determined and recorded as R in ml per min. The activity of the enzyme is calculated by the formula Several of the enzymes from Table 1 were selected and futher investigated for use in small scale cheese making to observe the relationship between solubility and the partitioning between curds and whey. To make cheese on a small scale, calcium chloride was added dihydrate 1.47 g L to homogenized pasteurized milk to assist curd formation. The milk was warmed to 31.5 C 89 deg. F in a constant temperature bath and glucono delta lactone 2.3 g L added for PH control. Various lipases were added at equivalent activity levels based upon tributyrin activity to aliquots of the warmed milk. Fifteen minutes after addition of the glucono delta lactone, the milk was set with calf rennet Chr. Hansen s rennet 0.144g l and, after mixing, allowed to incubate undisturbed for approximately 25 minutes until curd of the desired body was formed. The curd was uniformly cut and returned to the bath. Incubation temperature was raised to 37.5 C 100 deg. F within 22 minutes and held for a further 38 minutes to facilitate whey expression. Whey was drained and filtered through filter paper. Curds and whey were assayed for lipase activity. The data in Table 2 show that total enzyme recovery was typically high. Some loses compared to initial acitivites could be attributed to enzyme inactivation during the cheese making process while others were due to physical losses. The correlation between solubility Table 1 and the partitioning of enzyme into the curd fraction Table 2 was exceedingly high. The insoluble Genencor microbial lipase partioned 94 into the curd. Doubling the amount of added enzyme had little effect on the partitioning. In contrast, the soluble lipase derived from Aspergillus A. The soluble The partitioning of the enzyme from Animal lipases in these instances behaved somewhat differently. Only 53 of the calf lipase activity was found in the cords as compared to 86 with the lamb lipase. Although these enzymes were initially insoluble when added to water, the calf lipase tended to solubilize during the cheese making process, unlike either the lamb lipase or the Genencor microbial lipase. Bulk milk was obtained from the University of Kentucky dairy farm, transported to the dairy lab, batch pasteurized at 63 deg. C for 30 minutes, cooled to 2 deg. C and held in a refrigerated vat until the following day. Then, the milk was heated to 31.1 deg. C, transferred to 365 kg capacity vats and manufactured into Colby cheese following Wister s procedure 1977 using Chr. Hansen s CH6 culture. Freeze dried culture was seeded into skim milk and serially transferred to 22 kg of whole milk to form a bulk starter that was held overnight at 21 deg. C. Four kilograms kg of bulk starter were added to each vat containing 365 kg of milk. Salt was preweighed at an amount equal to 2 of the curd weight and mixed thoroughly with 10.9 kg of curd which was then hooped, and pressed to yield 9 kg blocks of Colby cheese. Duplicate blocks of cheese were prepared for each treatment and manufacturing period, with the experiment being replicated two times. A comparison was made between the partitioning of soluble and insoluble enzymes during bulk cheese production. The aforementioned cheese making method was scaled to 7 kg of milk for enzymatic partitioning studies. Cheeses were evaluated organoleptically by conventional techniques such as acid degree value ADV , free fatty acid FFA analysis, and non protein nitrogen NPN analysis in order to determine optimum enzyme addition levels for production scale cheese manufacturing. This optimum was determined and found to correspond to an enzyme addition level of 1 TBU per Kg of cheese. This dose level was arbitrarily given the designation 1X . For experimental purposes, other doses were assigned values relative to this optimum dose i.e. 10X, 100X, etc. . Similarly, a 1X dose of protease was established and this corresponds to the addition of 6.5 mg Genencor Rhozyme P11 per kg cheese. To assay protease activity, casein was iodinated with I₁₂₅ and diluted with unlabelled casein. Protease containing samples were incubated with this substrate under defined conditions, and the reactions terminated by the addition of trichloroacetic acid. Soluble radioactive counts were detected and measured in a gamma counter. A standard curve with dilutions of known activity was run for comparison. Genencor