# USE OF TOCOPHERYL GLYCOSIDES FOR ACTIVATING THE FUNCTION OF PHAGOCYTES

## Claims
Verwendung einer Verbindung oder einer Zusammensetzung, die eine solche Verbindung der nachstehend angegebenen Formel

## Description
The present invention relates to the use of a composition For the manufacture of a medicament for activating the function of phagocytes. Phagocytes such as neutrophils, etc. play an important role in biophylaxis by phagocytosis, digestion and detoxication of foreign substances from the outside. Recently, it has been found that, in a host suffering from bacterial or viral infections or malignant tumor, lowering of the function of phagocytes, lymphocytes and the like is observed and, when the function of them is lowered, such a host is liable to get infections and infections are liable to become severe. From this point of view, various studies relating to activation of the function of phagocytes and lymphocytes have been made and some drugs useful for activating the function of lymphocytes have been already developed and used in the treatment of malignant tumour and infectious diseases. However, for activating the function of phagocytes, only a few compounds, such as levamisole, have been known. On the other hand, during the study of pharmacological activities of tocopheryl glycosides, the present inventors have surprisingly found that certain tocopheryl glycosides are useful for increasing migration and phagocytosis of phagocytes such as neutrophils and thereby the function of phagocytes are activated. European Patent Application No. 0 169 716 discloses pharmaceutically active compositions having anti allergic activity which contain as active principles tocopheryl glycoside derivatives. An object of the present invention is to provide for the use of a compound or of a composition containing such a compound for the manufacture of a medicament for activating the function of phagocytes. Accordingly the present invention provides the use of a compound or of a composition containing such a compound for the manufacture of a medicament for activating the function of phagocytes in which the compound has the formula wherein The compound of the formula I is composed of tocopherol and a sugar which are commonly used in drugs and food and, therefore, toxicity of the compound is very low. The composition for activating the function of phagocytes of the present invention is useful in treatment of infectious diseases or malignant tumour by administrating it to human or other mammals orally, parenterally or externally. Thus, the method for activating the function of phagocytes of the present invention comprises orally or parenterally administering or topically applying the compound of the formula I , preferably, in the form of the above composition, to a human subject or other mammals requiring activation of the function of phagocytes. In the formula I , the group C₁₆H₃₃ at 2 position in the 3,4 dihydrobenzopyran ring represents 4,8,12 trimethyltridecyl group of the side chain at the 2 position of tocopherol. Further, although there exist isomers in the sugar introduced into the hydroxy group at 6 position, all the isomers including the mixture of the isomers and the isolated isomer are fallen within the scope of formula I . The compound of the formula I wherein R₁ is glucose residue has been already known in the prior art The 103rd Annual Meeting of The Pharmaceutical Society of Japan, April 4 6, 1983 . Further, the compound of the formula I is disclosed in the co pending Japanese Patent Application No. 151895 1984 assigned to the present assignee as an antiallergic agent. However, it is believed that the compound of the formula I has not been used heretofore in the prior art for activating the function of phagocytes. In the present invention, preferably, both R₂ and R₃ in the formula I are methyl. That is, the preferred compound of the formula I is The compound of the formula I can be prepared according to the method described in the above Japanese Patent Application No. 151895 1984. Tocopherol is reacted with an appropriate peracetylated sugar in an appropriate solvent at in elevated temperature, for example 80 to 100 C, for an appropriate period of time, for example, 3 to 7 hours. By this reaction, the corresponding acetylated sugar residue is introduced at the 6 position to give an acetylated derivative which is an intermediate for the preparation of the compound of the formula I . The reaction proceeds preferably by using ethylene glycol diacetate or nitrobenzene as a solvent and adding p toluenesulfonic acid as a catalyst. Tocopherol used as the starting material may be any one of α , β , γ and δ tocopherols. The peracetylated sugar is known or is prepared by acetylating the desired sugar according to a conventional acetylation method. The compound of the formula I can be prepared by deacetylating the acetylated derivative thus obtained according to a known method, for example, by heating it under reflux in absolute methanol in the presence of sodium methoxide and then treating with an ion exchange regimen such as Amberlite IR 120 H type . The compound of the formula I is obtained as a stable crystalline material which is soluble in an organic solvent such as alcohol, chloroform, benzene and insoluble in water and can be further purified by a conventional method such as recystallization. The compound of the formula I thus obtained has very low toxicity. For example, both dl α tocopheryl glucoside and dl α tocopheryl mannoside show LD₅₀ values in rat of 5000 mg kg p.o. and 500 mg kg i.p. . Thus, the composition for activating the function of phagocytes of the present invention can be prepared in the dosage form suitable for oral, parenteral or external administration such as tablets, powders, granules, syrups, injectable preparations, eye lotions, ointments, creams, emulsions, aqueous alcoholic solutions by incorporating a non toxic but effective amount of the compound of the formula I with one or more pharmaceutically or veterinary acceptable carriers or diluents such as binders, disintegrators, lubricants, solvents, agents for making isotonic, emulsifiers, suspending agents, stabilizers according to a conventional pharmaceutical or veterinary technique. Preferably, the composition of the present invention is formulated in a dosage unit form containing 1 to 100 mg of the compound of the formula I . The composition for activating the function of phagocytes of the present invention can be administered to human subjects or other mammals orally, parenterally or externally for treating infectious diseases and malignant tumour. For example, in case of treating human subjects, the composition is very useful for the treatment of infectious diseases caused by abnormality of the function of phagocytes such as Chediak Higashi syndrome, lazy leukocyte syndrome, chronic granulomatosis and juvenile periodontitis. The dosage can be appropriately chosen according to conditions to be treated, the route of administration. However, usually, it is preferable to administer 1 to 100 mg kg of the compound of the formula I per a single dose with daily dosage regimen of 100 to 1000 mg kg of the compound of the formula I . The following reference examples and examples further illustrate the present invention in detail. dl α Tocopherol 10 g, 23.25 mmol and β D mannopyranose pentaacetate 3.3 g, 8.45 mmol were dissolved in nitrobenzene 5 ml and p toluenesulfonic acid 75 mg, 0.44 mmol was added to the solution. The reaction system was displaced with nitrogen and was reacted in an oil bath at 90 C under reduced pressure of 20 mmHg 2,66. 10⁵Pa. The progress of the reaction was followed by thin layer chromatography developing solvent benzene ethyl acetate 10 1 . After 5 hours, benzene 100 ml was added to the reaction mixture and the mixture was washed with water 3 x 100 ml and a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride 3 x 100 ml . The benzene layer was dried with anhydrous sodium sulfate and evaporated under reduced pressure to give a dark brown oily product 13 g . This material 13 g was chromatographed on a column of silica gel 550 g and eluted with benzene ethyl acetate 9 1 to give the title product 2.4 g, 38 as a yellow oil. TLC benzene ethyl acetate 10 1 Rf 0.3 1756 C O cm ¹ The product 2.4 g, 3.12 mmol of Reference Example 1 was dissolved in dry methanol 8 ml and 0.1 N sodium methoxide 2 ml was added to the solution. The mixture was heated under reflux in a water bath. After 5 minutes, the reaction mixture was cooled and neutralized with Amberlite IR 120 H type . After decolorization with charcoal, the reaction mixture was filtered and the filtrate was evaporated under reduced pressure to give the title compound 1.23 g, 68 as white crystals. The crystals thus obtained were further recrystallized from acetone to give the further purified title compound 0.95 g, 19 . 3390, 1160 OH sugar cm ¹ d δ Tocopherol 10 g, 25 mmol and β D mannopyranose pentaacetate 3.3 g, 8.86 mmol were dissolved in nitrobenzene 5 ml and p toluenesulfonic acid 80 mg, 0.5 mmol was added to the solution. The reaction system was displaced with nitrogen and was reacted in an oil bath at 80 C under reduced pressure of 20 mmHg. After 4 hours, benzene 100 ml was added to the reaction mixture and the mixture was washed with water 3 x 100 ml and a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride 3 x 100 ml . The benzene layer was dried with anhydrous sodium sulfate and evaporated under reduced pressure to give a dark brown oily product 20 g . This material 20 g was chromatographed on a column of silica gel 550 g and eluted with benzene ethyl acetate to give the title product 3.8 g, 61 as a yellow oil. TLC benzene ethyl acetate 10 1 Rf 0.3 1760 C O cm ¹ The product 3.8 g, 5.2 mmol of Example 3 was dissolved in dry methanol 8 ml and 0.1 N sodium methoxide 2 ml was added to the solution. After 5 minutes, the reaction mixture was neutralized with Amberlite IR 120 H type and decolorized with charcoal. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was evaporated under reduced pressure to give 2.1 g, 72 of the title product as a white crystals. The crystals obtained were recrystallized from acetone to give the purified title compound 1.36 g, 30 . 3390, 1160 OH sugar cm ¹ According to the same procedure as described in the above Reference Examples, the following compounds of formula I were prepared by using the corresponding tocopherol and the peracethyl sugar through the corresponding acetylated derivative. These ingredients were thoroughly mixed and directly tabletted to give tablets for oral administration. According to a standard wet granulation technique, granules for oral administration was prepared from these ingredients. The ingredients were admixed to prepare a solution and the solution was sterilized by filtration to obtain an injectable preparation. According to a standard method, an ointment was prepared from these ingredients. According to a standard method, an emulsion preparation was prepared from these ingredients. The effect of tocopheryl glycosides on activation of the function of phagocytes was tested. The results are described hereinafter. From these results, it is clear that the tocoperyl glyucoside of formula I has an excellent activity for activating the function of phagocytes.