# Loading arrangement for placing brush bodies from a supply into a brush body holder.

## Abstract
Loading arrangement for placing brush bodies from a supply into a brush body holder, characterized thereby that it mainly consists of diplaceable gripping means bringing about a positive loading of brush bodies into a brush body holder.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Loading arrangement for placing brush bodies from a supply into a brush body holder, characterized thereby that it mainly consists of displaceable gripping means bringing sbout a positive loading of brush bodies into A brush body holder. 2. Loading arrangement secordiny to claim 1, charac terized thereby that said gripping means are formed by a single gripping mechanism 1 that consists of a gripper body 8 which is provided with the necessary small gripping arms 7 for gripping the brush bodies 2 and means for moving said gripper body 8 vertically and horizontally, said gripping means being disposed in such a way and 8 steering being provided such that on one hand brush bodies 2 can be gripped at the supply 3 , and at the other hand said brush bodies 2 can be loaded in a positive way in the brush holder 5 . 3. Loading arrangement according to claim 1, characterized thereby that said gripping means consist of at least two gripping mechanisms 1, 18 that are able to exert an interaction with respect to one another. 4. Loading arrangement according to claim 3, characterized thereby that said gripping mectxenisms 21, 22 are disposed radially. 5. Loading arrangement according to claim 1, characterized thereby that said gripping means consist of a plurality of clamps 24 that are fixed to a conveyor belt 23 , wherein said conveyor belt 23 at one hand passes along the supply 3 and on the other hand along a brush body holder 5 so that at one hand said clamps 24 are able to clamp at said supply 3 said brush bodies between their Jaws 26 and at the other hand are able to deliver said brush bodies 2 to said brush body holder 5 . 6. Loading arrangement according to claim 4, cherac terized thereby that it is provided between said conveyor belt 23 and said brush holders 5 with 8 gripping element 25 which is disposed in such a way that it can successively take said brush bodies 2 from said jaws 24 and then can place them between the brush body clamps 6 of 8 brush body holder 5 .

## Description
LOADINC ARRANGE FOR PLACING BRUSH BODIES FROM A SUPPLY INTO A BRUSH BODY HOLDER This invention relates to a loading arrangement for plecing brush bodies from a supply into a brush body holder, in other words an arrangement for taking brush bodies one by one from a supply, carrying them away therefrom and placing said brush body in a work holder of a brush making machine. More especially, this invention relates to an arrang ement for taking away brush bodies from a sorting arrangement one by one by gripping them powerfully, whereupon these brush bodies are carried away by means of gripping means and brought between the clamps of a brush body holder in such a way that hereby a powerfull loading takes place. In a special application the present invention rclates to a loading arrangement for bringing brush bodies from a sorting arrangement between the clamps of a drum shaped work holder of a brush making machine. Prior art loading arrangements of brush making m chines mainly consist of 8 magazine finding itself perjendi cularly above the drum shaped work holder. Herein the workpieces, in this case the brush bodies, are stacked in said mo gamine, the undermost brush body resting on the drum shnped work holder. After every angular displacement of the work holder, an empty brush body clamp is being presented at the bottom of the magazine so that as a result thereof the undermost brusti body from the magazine takes its position herein. The magazine is filled at the top with brush bodies, which are dropped from the sorting arrangement into said magazine. Other known loading arrangements for brush bodies are those still being provided with a sliding shoot between the sorting arrangement and the abovesaid vertical magazine. The prior art arrangements show various disadvantages. A first disadvantage which is not desirable at all is that the brush bodies, especially in the case of toothbrushes, undesirably reverse themselves during the transport from the sorting arrangement to the bottom side of said vertical magazine with the result that they are gripped between the brush clamps in some wrong way. Reversal of the brush bodies mainly takes place in the case of tooth brushes as they mostly have a rounded, even practically circular shape, at least as far as their section is concerned. So, this is the main reason why they readily reverse themselves in the sliding shoots and in the vertical magazine. An additional disadvantage inherent to the former is that an elaborate and intricate constuction and assembly of safety switches and detection elements is needed for control liny purposes. Another important disadvantage of the prior art ar rangements is that such vertical magazines demand that a work holder be used having a round shapes because during the rotation of said workholder shortly also called drum the brush bodies then being contained in the nlagazine must continue to be supported, otherwise all brush bodies would fall from title magazine. An additional disadvantage of such sliding shoots and small vertical magazines is that the brush bodies, especially in the case of tooth brushes, stiow scratches occasioned by the transport in said shoots and in said magazine. So, the present invention provides a loading arrangement for placing brush bodies from a supply into 8 brush body holder which does not have the above mentioned nor other disadvantages. Therefore the invention provides means for gripping in a ferm way the brush bodies at the discharge station of a sorting arrangement, conveying them in gripiied state to a brush body holder and presenting them in a positive way between the brush body clamps of said brush body holder. For that purpose the arrangement according the present invention mainly consists of displaceable gripping means bringing about a positive loading of brush bodies in a brushbody holder. In a variant the invention provides an arrangement that is equipped with a plurality of grippers exerting a common interaction. In another variant the invention provides a pleura ty of grippers being fixed to a conveyor belt, the grippers at some place along said conveyor belt passing the discharge station of a sorting arrangement and there gripping a Brush body, and at another place the conveyor belt passing a brushbody holder, where the grippers successively deliver one brush body every time in such e way that the latter is being presented every time between the brush body clamps. In still another variant the present invention provides a loading arrangement that consists in the combination of the abovesaid gripping means and an additional magazine, such as e.g. 8 conveyor belt, this conveyor belt being fed in such a way that a brush body is presented to the gripping means at every turn. The latter variant of an embodiment has the advantage that a gap in the sorting operation can be caught thereby so that no processing cycle whatever in the brush making machine is wasted. In order to better demonstrate the features of the present invention, some preferred embodiments are described hereinafter by way of example without limiting them thereto with reference to the accompanying drawings wherein Figure 1 represents a schematic view of the invention wherein a single gripper is used Figure 2 represents a possible arrangement of two grippers in such a way that an interaction is possible Figure 3 respresents a variant of figure 2 figure 4 represents a schematic view of a loading ar rangement according to the invention, the gripping means being fixed to a conveyor belt Figure 5 represents a schematic view of a variant of rigure 4. In a first possible embodiment, the invention as represented in figure 1 consists of a simple gripping mechanism 1 taking care that brush bodies 2, which according to the figure consist of toot li brush bodies, are taken away from a sorted supply 3 one after the other and in n positive way are transferred to a workholder, which in figure 1 consists of a stepwise angularly rotatable drum 4 which at its periphery is provided with four brush body tiolders 5, each of which is provided with the necessary brush body clamps 6. In the example the gripper mechanism 1 consists of two small gripping arms 7 which are movably fixed to a grip per body 8, said gripper body 8 being allowed by means of guiding rods 9 10 to move vertically with respect to a smell element 11 which in its turn can move horizontally via the guiding rods 12 and 13 respectively with respect to 8 part of frame 14 of a brush making machine e.g., all this in such a way that the gripping mechanism 1 can perform a right movement for reslizing the above mentioned transfer of the brush bodies 2. Obviously, driving and steering of the gripping mechanism 1 which are not represented in the figure can be composed in different ways with pneumatic or electromagnetic components known by themselves. E.g., the gripper body 8 and the small element 11 can be moved by means of pneumstic cylinders, while the gripping arms 7 can be simply driven electromagnetically. In figure 1 the possibility is also being represent ed for providing an intermediate magazine 16 between the end station 15 of a sorting arrangement and the gripping mechanism 1, whereby it is possible to compensate gaps 17 in the sorting operation, so that no cycle whatever is carried out uselessly hy the gripping mechanism 1. As represented in figure 1, said intermediate magazine 16 may consist of a suitably controlled and steered conveyor belt. It is clear that the use of such an intermediate magazine 16 is closely connected with the nature of the end station 15 of said sorting arrangement and that it is not always necessary to provide such an intermediate magazine 16. In order to raise the rhythm of transfer of the brush bodies 2, a plurality of gripping means exerting an interaction with respect to one another can be provided as represented in figures 2 and 3. In figure 2 gripping means are represe ted that mainly consist of the gripping mechanism 1 of figure 1 and a second gripping mechanism 18 that is almost identical to said first one. Said second gripping mechanism 18 is provided of horizontal guiding rods 19 and 20 in such a way that the gripper body 8 of the first gripping mechanism 1 can move between these rods during its upward and downward movement. rigure 3 still represents a possibility according to which two gripping mechanisms 21 and 22 are disposed radially. Obviously, several of such gripping mechanisms can be applied if that would appear to be necessary. Another possible embodiment of a loading arrangement according to the present invention is a conveyor belt 23 provided with the necessary clamps 24 for gripping the tooth brush bodies and with e simple grippiny element 25. Tie operation of this emboIiment consists therein that the brush bodies at the supply 3 are yripped by means of clamps 24 end then are, brought to drum 4 by means of the conveyor belt, whereafter the brush bodies 2 are taken over by the gripping element 25 from the clamps 24 and are brought between the brush body clamps 6 by means of said gripping element 25. It is clear that the gripping action of clamps 24 can be obtained in different ways, but in the most simple enbodiment will be achieved by means of the clamping force of springs not represented in the figure which press both the jaws 25 of the abovesaid clamps 24 towards each other, wherein opening of said clamps 24 can be simply realized by providing a fixed cam that extends itself at the suitable places along said conveyor belt 23, said cam being able to force the jaws with respect to one another. Self evidently said clamps 24 can be attached to a conveyor belt in different ways known by themselves. They can rotate either at the ends of the conveyor belt 23, or always be kept horizontally. figure 5 still represents a variant for obtaining 8 positive loading of brush bodies according to the invention. herein the conveyor belt 23 is dealing directly with the loading of the brush bodies 2 between the brush body clamps 6 of the brush body holder 5 without using thereby the gripping element 25. This way a loading arrangement is obtained for placing brush bodies from 8 supply into a brush body holder so as to obtain r positive loading whereby the above mention ed disadvantages cesse to exist. The present invention is by no means limited to the embodiments described by way of an example end represented in the accompanying drewings, but such loading arrangement with positive loading as well as its composing parts can be realized in eny shapes and dimensions without deperting from the scope of the invent ion.