# SEMICONDUCTOR MEMORY DEVICE HAVING SERIAL DATA INPUT AND OUTPUT CIRCUIT

## Claims
Halbleiterspeichervorrichtung mit

## Description
The present invention relates to a semiconductor memory device. More particularly, it relates to a semiconductor memory device having a high speed serial data input and output circuit in addition to a random data input and output circuit. An image data processing system or the like requires a large capacity memory. To meet the requirement for a large capacity memory at low cost, a dynamic random access memory RAM is extensively used. In addition, in order to display a large amount of image data stored in the RAM on a cathode ray tube CRT display unit and perform image data processing for a large amount of image data, such as gradients and filtering, high speed data store and or read out are also highly required. A normal semiconductor memory device having a dynamic RAM and operable for random access for each data, per se, however, suffers from a disadvantage of low speed data store and or read out for a large amount of image data. Recently, in order to overcome the above disadvantage, there have been proposed so called dual port memory devices, i.e., semiconductor memory devices including a high speed data input and output circuit provided outside the dynamic RAM. A dual port memory device is operable for not only normal random access through a conventional port, but also high speed serial data input and output used by a high speed data input and output circuit through another port. These prior art semiconductor memory devices, however, still suffer from disadvantages of complex circuit configurations and the use of a considerably large space on the semiconductor chip, which may lead to low integration, and high power consumption. It is accordingly desirable to provide a semiconductor memory device having a serial data input and output circuit with low cost, large capacity memory cells reduced complexity of circuit configuration and use of space on a chip and low power consumption. EP A 0 097 778 discloses a semiconductor random access memory equipped with a primary input output port for random access and a secondary port for serial block access, having the features of the prior art semiconductor memory device of Figure 1 and as described in the preamble of claim 1. EP A 0 056 240 discloses a single port memory device having both random access and serial access operation modes. A set of shift registers for serial access is controlled by the same column decoder as employed in the random access operation mode. According to the present invention, there is provided a semiconductor memory device comprising Reference will now be made, by way of example, to the accompanying drawings in which Before describing preferred embodiments of the present invention, an explanation will be given of the prior art for reference. Referring to Fig. 1, a prior art dual port type dynamic RAM device includes a dynamic RAM portion 100 and a serial data input and output I O portion 200. The dynamic RAM portion 100 includes a dynamic RAM cell array 1, a sense amplifier group 2, first and second gate groups 3 and 4, a column decoder 5, a row decoder 6, an amplifier circuit 7, an I O circuit 8, and a pair of data buses DB and In a random access mode for data read, the bit lines BL₀ to BL₂₅₅ and The serial I O portion 200 is provided outside of the dynamic RAM portion 100. The serial I O portion 200 includes transfer gate group 21A, a latch circuit group 22, a serial gate group 23, a shift register group 24, another column decoder 25, an amplifier circuit 26, and an I O circuit 27. The transfer gate group 21A consists of 256 gates TGA₀ to TGA₂₅₅ connected to the bit lines BL₀ to BL₂₅₅. The latch circuit group 22 consists of 256 flip flops FF₀ to FF₂₅₅ , each having a set input terminal connected to the corresponding transfer gate TGA In a serial access mode for data read, the bit lines are precharged and the pair of word lines and the dummy word lines are selected, whereby a plurality of data in the memory cells selected by the word lines are sensed at the sense amplifiers, set forth above. As a transfer clock signal TCLK Provision of the above serial data I O portion 200 enables high speed data input and output in addition to a normal random access operation in the dynamic RAM portion 100. This, however, increases the complexity of the circuit and thus reduces the integration of the circuit in a chip. It also results in high power consumption in the chip. These disadvantages are serious ones in semiconductor memory devices, especially dynamic RAM devices. In particular, the dynamic RAM device shown in Fig. 1 is provided with two independent column decoders 5 and 25, one column decoder 5 activating the gate groups 3 and 4 and another column decoder 25 designating a start location for serial data input and output. Figure 2 is a circuit diagram of a part of the column decoder 5. In Fig. 2, i and j th column decoding circuits are shown. A plurality of pairs of column address signal lines A₀ and Another column decoder 25 is also provided with 256 column decoding circuits, each of which is formed similar to that in the column decoder 5. Referring to Fig. 3, two dynamic RAM devices are formed in a chip. Each dynamic RAM device includes a dynamic RAM portion 100A, 100B and a serial data I O portion 200A, 200B. Each dynamic RAM device has the same circuit construction as that shown in Fig. 1. The dynamic RAM devices are operable independently from each other. In Fig. 3, four column decoders 5A, 5B, 25A, and 25B are provided. The column decoders 5A and 5B activate gates for data buses, while the column decoders 25A and 25B designate start locations of serial data input and output. Each column decoder is naturally formed similar to that shown in Fig. 2. Referring back to Fig. 1 note that the two column decoders 5 and 25 never operate at the same time. The column decoder 5 may operate in a random data access mode. The column decoder 25 may operate in a serial data input and output operation mode and in a short period for designating the first data input and output location to the corresponding shift register. This enables the deletion of the column decoder 25 and common use of the column decoder 5 for the random data access as well as the serial data input and output. In addition, the common use of the column decoder 5 will cause no conflict between random access means and the serial access means as long as only a single set of column address receiving circuitry is provided in the semiconductor memory device since only one column address can be applied to the semiconductor memory device at a time regardless of the access mode. This concept can be applied to the dynamic RAM devices shown in Fig. 3. Preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described in detail. Referring to Fig. 4, a circuit diagram of an embodiment of a semiconductor memory device is shown. The semiconductor memory device in Fig. 4 is of an open bit line type dynamic RAM device as shown in Fig. 1. The dynamic RAM device in Fig. 4 includes a dynamic RAM portion 100 and a serial data I O portion 200 . The dynamic RAM portion 100 is identical to that shown in Fig. 1. On the other hand, the serial data I O portion 200 does not include the column decoder 25 shown in Fig. 1. The shift register group 24 receives column decoded signals CD₀ to CD₂₅₅ from the column decoder 5 instead of the column decoder 25. The decoding circuit shown in Fig. 2 is still used for the column decoder 5 in Fig. 4. The operation of the i th column decoding circuit will be described. In an initial condition, a reset pulse R is supplied to gates of MOS transistors Q₁₂ and Q₁₃ , resulting in the column decoded signal CD Referring to Fig. 5, the circuit of the i and i 1 th shift registers SR The operation of the shift registers shown in Fig. 5 will be described with reference to Figs. 6a and 6b. Figures 6a and 6b are views of waveforms of the first and second clock pulses P₁ and P₂ for driving the shift registers. The clock pulses P₁ and P₂ differ in phase by 180 . In an initial condition, the reset pulse R is supplied to gates of transistors Q₅₅ and Q₇₅ , resulting in voltage levels at nodes SP Referring to Fig. 7, the circuit of the o th filp flop FF₀ and the connection between the flip flop FF₀ and the relevant circuits, i.e., the serial data gates SGA₀ and SGB₀ , the transfer gate TG₀ , the sense amplifier SA₀ , and the serial data buses SDB and As can be seen from the description with reference to Figs. 4 to 7, in spite of the deletion of the column decoder 25 shown in Fig. 1, the dynamic RAM device can effect both the random data access operation and high speed serial data input and output operation. Due to the deletion of the column decoder 25 and common use of the column decoder 5 for the random data access operation and the designation of the first location to the shift registers in the serial data input and output operation mode, there is achieved a dynamic RAM device with reduced circuit complexity, use of space, and power consumption. The circuits of the shift registers and the flip flops FF are simple. This may increase the above effects. Figure 8 is a circuit diagram of another embodiment of a semiconductor memory device in accordance with the present invention. The semiconductor memory device is an open bit line type dual port dynamic RAM device similar to that in Fig. 4. The dynamic RAM device in question, however, includes four data buses DB1 to DB4 10₁ to 10₄ , four amplifier circuits 7₁ to 7₄ , and a multiplexer 9 in a dynamic RAM portion 100b. The dynamic RAM device also includes four serial data buses SDB1 to SDB4 20₁ to 20₄ , four amplifier circuits 26₁ to 26₄ , and a multiplexer 28 in a serial data I O portion 200b. The addition of the data buses 10₁ to 10₄ and the serial data buses 20₁ to 20₄ greatly improves the access time of the dynamic RAM cell. The multiplexer 9 performs the multiplexing of data from and to the amplifier circuits 7₁ to 7₄ in a predetermined time interval during the random access mode. The multiplexer 28 performs the multiplexing of data from and to the amplifier circuits 26₁ to 26₄ in a predetermined time interval during the serial data input and output mode. Due to the addition of the data buses, the circuit connection of first and second gate groups 3A and 4A is somewhat changed from that in Fig. 4. The connection of the serial data gate group 23 to the serial data buses 20₁ to 20₄ is also changed. Four gates, such as G₀ and G₁ in the first gate group 3A and G₂ and G₃ in the second gate group 4A, may be triggered in a group by one column decoded signal, such as CD₀. Similarly, four serial gates, such as SG₀ to SG₃ in the serial data gate group 23, may be triggered in a group. Accordingly, a column decoder 5 does not require the column address signal of A₆ , The principle of the operation of the dynamic RAM device shown in Fig. 8 is the same to that of the dynamic RAM device shown in Fig. 4, thus a description thereof is omitted. Referring to Fig. 10, a circuit diagram of another example showing a part of a column decoder 5 corresponding to that in Fig. 9 and a predecoder circuit 50 are shown. The predecoder circuit 50 includes an address drive clock circuit 51, tandem connected gates 52 and 53 for shifting the level of a signal output from the circuit 51, a column decoder activating circuit 54 generating the column decoder activation signal CDA, and a 1 4 decoder 55. The 1 4 decoder 55 receives the column address signal A₆ and A₇ and the column decoder activation signal CDA and outputs column decoder selection signals CDS₀ to CDS₃. In the column decoder 5 , MOS transistors Q₉₀ to Q₉₅ the connection of which is represented by a general form, correspond to, for example, transistors Q₁ to Q₆ shown in Fig. 9. In order to improve the operational reliability, a flip flop circuit of MOS transistors Q₁₅ and Q₁₆ and a capacitor C₁₀ are provided. Another flip flop circuit of MOS transistors Q₃₅ and Q₃₆ and a capacitor C₃₀ are also provided. Other transistors Q₁₄ , Q₁₇ , Q₁₈ , and Q₁₉ correspond to the transistors Q₁₂ , Q₁₀ , Q₁₁ , and Q₁₃ shown in Fig. 9, respectively. Referring to Fig. 11, a folded bit line type dual ports dynamic RAM device is shown. Each pair of bit lines, such as BL₀ and BL₀ , are folded at the sense amplifier SA₀. This type of bit line arrangement may increase the resistance against noise. The dynamic RAM device includes a dynamic RAM portion 100C and a serial data I O portion 200C. Referring to Fig. 12, a part of the circuit shown in Fig. 11 is shown in detail, the circuit of Fig. 12 corresponds to that of Fig. 7. The transfer gate group 21 in Fig. 11 consists of 256 pairs of transfer gates, each pair of gates, such as TGA₀ and TGB₀ , being provided between the sense amplifier SA₀ and the flip flop FF₀ and connected to the pair of bit lines BL₀ and Referring to Fig. 13, another folded bit type dual port dynamic RAM device is shown. The dynamic RAM device includes four data buses 10₁ to 10₄ and four serial data buses 20₁ to 20₄ , as shown in Fig. 8. Accordingly, the circuit construction and operation of Fig. 8 can be applied to the dynamic RAM device in Fig. 13 in the same way, except for the connection between the bit lines and the transfer gates, shown in Fig. 12. Referring to Figs. 14a and 14b, the operation timings of the common column decoder 5 in Fig. 13 will be described. In Figs. 14a and 14b, shaded portions represent operation times of the column decoder 5 . Figure 14a represents operation times for the random access in a dynamic RAM portion 100d. Each operation time for random access is T₁. Figure 14b represents operation times for the serial data input and output. Each operation time of the column decoder for the serial data input and output is T₂. The subsequent operation time T₃ , not the shaded portion, shows an operation for serial data input and output after once storing 256 data from the dynamic RAM cell portion 1 into 256 flip flops FF₀ to FF₂₅₅. The dynamic RAM cell portion 1 includes 64 Kbit of memory cells. Assuming the random access for four data requires 250 nanoseconds ns , the above time T₁ is 250 ns. Assuming also the time for selecting one pair of word lines WL If the multiplexers 9 and 28 are omitted and four input or output operations are effected in parallel, the above times T₁ , T₂ , and T₃ are shortened. Referring to Fig. 15, a circuit of two dynamic RAM devices on a chip in accordance with the present invention, which is improved over the circuit of the dynamic RAM devices shown in Fig. 3, is shown. Each dynamic RAM device includes a dynamic RAM portion 100e, 100f and a serial data input and output portion 200e, 200f. In Fig. 15, a single column decoder 5 is provided for the two dynamic RAM devices, resulting in a great reduction of space used by the circuit. In the above description, the circuit configurations and the operations of the embodiments were discussed. In addition, consideration must be given to a circuit arrangement minimizing the lines between the column decoder and the gate group s 3 and 4 connected to the data bus 10, lines between the column decoder and the shift register group 24, lines between the sense amplifier group 2 and the transfer gate group 21, and other lines. Figure 16 is a part of a schematic layout of an example concerning the circuit shown in Fig. 11. The column decoder 5 is provided between the gate group 3 and the shift register group 24. The serial gate group 23 is provided adjacent to the flip flop group 24. The many bit lines between the sense amplifier Group 2 and the transfer gate group 21 and the lines between the transfer gate group 21 and the flip flop group 22 should also be minimized in length. Many widely different embodiments of the present invention may be constructed without departing from the scope of the present invention. It should be understood that the present invention is not limited to the specific embodiments described in this specification, except as defined in the appended claims.