# PROMOTION OF EPSILON CAPROLACTAM POLYMERIZATION

## Claims
Zusammensetzung, die zum Mischen mit einem C₃ C₁₂ Lactammagnesiumhalogenidkatalysator zum Vorsehen einer Mischung geeignet ist, die unter Bildung eines Nylon 6 Polymers polymerisiert, welche Zusammensetzung

## Description
The present invention is directed to polymerizable ε caprolactam compositions and to a process for polymerization thereof. In particular it is directed to components of such polymerizable ε caprolactam compositions containing a sufficient amount of 2 oxo 1 pyrrolidinyl compounds to promote the rate of polymerization. It is known that lactams in general, and specifically caprolactam, may be polymerized by heating in the presence of suitable anionic polymerization catalysts among which are the alkali metals and alkaline earth metals and such of their compounds as are capable of forming an active iminium salt with a lactam. In recent years, it has been found that certain classes of activated ring compounds such as those possessing lactam rings attached to electron withdrawing groups such as carbonyl groups are capable of initiating the polymerization of lactam when used in conjunction with such anionic catalysts. In U.S. Patent 3.017.391 is described a method for preparing stabilized polycaprolactams using N acyl activators such as N acetyl 2 pyrrolidone. These activators are used for the preparation of polycaprolactam without primary amino groups which causes discoloration of the polycaprolactam. The polymerization rate of lactam may be affected by the temperature at which the reaction is conducted, and the concentration of such initiators and catalysts. While the rate of lactam monomer polymerization may be generally rapid when using an initiator in conjunction with an anionic catalyst, it is desirable to increase this rate even more, especially in transfer molding and reaction injection molding systems. The present invention is directed to a process for the preparation of a nylon 6 polymer from ε caprolactam in which the rate of polymerization of the ε caprolactam is promoted by the inclusion of 2 oxo 1 pyrrolidinyl compounds in the polymerization Other aspects of the invention are directed to the reactant streams containing 2 oxo 1 pyrrolidinyl compounds which can be used in the polymerization process. More particularly the process comprises bringing into polymerizing admixture a first reactant stream comprising ε caprolactam, The ε caprolactam polymerization initiator is a compound capped with at least one activated C₃ to C₁₂ N lactam group capable of initiating ε caprolactam polymerization in the presence of the catalyst, and the precursor is capable of reacting with ε caprolactam to form such an initiator species. The polymerizing admixture comprises a sufficient amount of 2 pyrrolidinone to provide a concentration of 2 oxo 1 pyrrolidinyl group in the range of 0.05 to two equivalents per equivalent of the total ε caprolactam polymerization initiator or precursor thereof. The first reactant stream used in the process can comprise a ε caprolactam, b the initiator compound or precursor thereof, and c a sufficient amount of 2 pyrrolidinone to provide a concentration of 2 oxo 1 pyrrolidinyl groups in the range of 0.05 to two equivalents per equivalent of the initiator compound or precursor thereof. The second reactant stream can comprise ε caprolactam, a catalyst lactam magnesium halide of a C₃ to C₁₂ lactam, and a sufficient amount of 2 pyrrolidinone to provide in the admixture a concentration of 2 oxo 1 pyrrolidinyl groups in the range of 0.05 to two equivalents per equivalent of the initiator compound or precursor thereof supplied in the first reactant stream. The lactam polymerization initiator useful for the practice of the present invention is a compound which has been prepared so as to possess at least one activated group which initiates ε caprolactam polymerization. The activated group is a C₃ to C₁₂ N lactam ring preferably derived from ε caprolactam or 2 pyrrolidinone. Activation is obtained by attaching the lactam group through the nitrogen atom to a moiety selected from Generally the molecular weight of the lactam polymerization initiator is less than 1000. Advantageously the compounds from which the lactam polymerization initiator is derived are lower molecular weight alkyl, aryl, alkyloxy, aryloxy, aralkyl, and aralkyloxy compounds. Examples of suitable compounds from which the lactam polymerization initiator in accordance with the present invention may be derived are mono or polycarboxylic acids, such as acetic, benzoic, carbonic, oxalic, malonic, glutaric adipic, pimelic, azelaic, sebacic, isophthalic, terephthalic or other equivalent acids which have been reacted so as to possess lactam initiator groups or one of the precursor groups discussed above which when subsequently reacted with lactam monomer either prior to or during the polymerization reaction form the lactam initiator group. The preferred lactam polymerization initiators are derived from the mono or polycarboxylic acids. By lower molecular weight it is meant the compound from which the lactam polymerization initiator is derived has an actual molecular weight of less than 300 and, preferably, from 40 to 200. Generally, the functionality or number of activated groups per molecule of lactam polymerization initiator will be selected to provide a suitable reaction rate. The functionality is at least 1 but polyfunctional lactam polymerization initiators with functionality in the range of 2 to 9 and preferably in the range of 3 to 7, can be used to advantage in the polymerization of the lactam. When the lactam polymerization initiator is used to prepare nylon polymers by the reaction with ε caprolactam monomer in the presence of a suitable catalyst, the resulting nylon polymer is generally comprised of the lactam polymerization initiator to which are attached polyamide chains having repeat units of the general structure CO Y NH wherein Y is a pentamethylene group. While the nylon polymer is essentially prepared from ε caprolactam, other lactam monomers may be included so long as the reaction rate or degree of caprolactam polymerization is not substantially impaired. The weight average molecular weight of the resulting polyamide may vary widely and is advantageously in the range from 18,000 to 100,000. The molecular weight is generally dependent upon the molar ratio of caprolactam monomer and lactam polymerization initiator. Generally, the amount of lactam polymerization initiator used is at least 0.1 mole percent of the total molar amount of caprolactam monomer used, and more preferably, from 0.25 to 1.0 mole percent. The polymerization of the caprolactam monomer may be carried out in the presence of other materials such as hydroxy functional polymers and polyols, wherein a polyfunctional lactam polymerization initiator is caused to react with the hydroxy functional polymers or polyol during the polymerization of the caprolactam monomer to provide a nylon block copolymer. Such a method of preparing a nylon block copolymer is generally disclosed in USP No. 4,031,164, To avoid adversely affecting the rate of polymerization, the initiator compound should be present in stoichiometric excess over the hydroxy functional polymer and should preferably be present in a range of 1.1 to 2 equivalents per equivalent of hydroxy functional polymer. The magnesium catalyst for the lactam polymerization is a C₃ to C₁₂ lactam magnesium halide, preferably derived from lactam selected from the group consisting of ε caprolactam and 2 pyrrolidinone and more preferably it is selected from ε caprolactam magnesium bromide, 2 oxo 1 tetrahydroazepinyl magnesium bromide , and 2 pyrrolidinone magnesium bromide, 2 oxo 1 pyrrolidinyl magnesium bromide . The amount of catalyst used is an amount which gives an appreciable rate of polymerization. Advantageously, the amount of magnesium lactam polymerization catalyst for the practice of the present invention is in the range of 0.3 to 1.6 mole percent based on the total molar amount of ε caprolactam monomer and, preferably, from 0.6 to 1.2 mole percent. The reaction rate is dependent upon the concentration of catalyst being used and other parameters such as the temperature at which the reaction is being carried out. In general, even a minimal amount of 2 oxo 1 pyrrolidinyl groups in the reaction admixture of lactam, lactam polymerization initiator and lactam polymerization catalyst is effective in increasing the polymerization rate. The 2 oxo 1 pyrrolidinyl compounds can be any one of 2 pyrrolidinone, initiator compound capped with 2 oxo 1 pyrrolidinyl groups and 2 oxo 1 pyrrolidinyl magnesium halide and can therefor be added in the lactam initiator solution or in the catalyst stream or in both. In contrast to 2 pyrrolidinone, other derivatives of pyrrolidinone such as N methyl 2 pyrrolidinone and 5 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone provided no accelerating effect. Generally, an accelerating amount of 2 oxo 1 pyrrolidinyl compound is sufficient for the purpose of the invention. An accelerating amount is an amount which is sufficient to provide an increase in lactam polymerization rate which can be conveniently demonstrated by a decrease in reaction exotherm time as described hereinbelow. Preferably, the accelerating amount will be an amount sufficient to provide an overall decrease of at least 10 percent in the adiabatic polymerization exotherm time in comparison with an admixture containing no 2 oxo 1 pyrrolidinyl compounds. Advantageously, the amount of 2 oxo 1 pyrrolidinyl groups is in the range of 0.05 equivalent to 2 equivalents per equivalent of lactam initiator and, more preferably, from 0.2 to 1 equivalent per equivalent of lactam initiator. The reaction rate of lactam monomer polymerization can be determined from the exotherm of the reaction by one of the following methods In preparing a nylon polymer, the reactant streams of ε caprolactam and ε caprolactam polymerization initiator or precursor thereof and of ε caprolactam and lactam magnesium halide polymerization catalyst are admixed to bring them into reactive contact at the polymerization temperature for example at a temperature in the range of from 70 C to 230 C, preferably from 90 C to 190 C, and more preferably, 120 C to 180 C. In accordance with a particular method of preparing a nylon polymer, the above described admixture is immediately introduced into a mold which is maintained at the polymerization temperature until the caprolactam monomer has polymerized. The introduction of 2 pyrrolidinyl compound into the reaction mixture generally reduces the polymerization time at least about 50 . Typically, by selecting an acyllactam initiator, adjusting the polymerization temperature and or by adjusting the amount of lactam magnesium halide polymerization catalyst or lactam polymerization initiator, the caprolactam monomer polymerization may be initiated and completed within a relatively short period of time of less than 5 minutes. However the introduction of 2 oxo 1 pyrrolidinyl compound as free 2 pyrrolidionone, or as a fraction or all of the lactam caps of the polymerization initiator or as a fraction or all of the lactam moiety of the polymerization catalyst, into the reaction mixture in either or both reactant streams as set forth above, can reduce the polymerization time to about 30 to 90 seconds and provides the opportunity to obtain a fast polymerization time with a substantially reduced catalyst concentration and hence allows improvement in the hydrolytic stability of the molded polymer. When the polymerization is carried out in the presence of a hydroxy functional polymer or polyol, the polymerization is preferably carried out initially in the mold at a temperature of less than 120 C and thereafter at a temperature in the range of 120 to 180 C. Such a two step polymerization favors reaction of the hydroxy functional polymer or polyol with the initiator or initiator precursor in the initial step and ensures substantially complete incorporation of the hydroxy functional polymer or polyol in the block copolymer. In the preparation of nylon polymers it may be desirable to conduct the polymerization reaction in the presence of one or more other materials conventionally incorporated in nylon block polymers. Such materials would include fillers, plasticizers, flame retardants, stabilizers, reinforcing agents such as glass fiber, graphite and mineral clay, dyes and pigmenting materials. Such materials may be conveniently introduced in either of the reactant streams provided that they do not interact with the initiator or catalyst and impair the rate of polymerization of the admixture. The following examples are set forth to illustrate the present invention and should not be construed as limiting its scope. Quantities and percentages are by weight unless otherwise indicated. Examples 1 14 illustrate the accelerating effect of pyrrolidone on ε caprolactam polymerization using ε caprolactam magnesium halide catalyst with acetyl caprolactam as the lactam polymerization promoter. The polymerizations were run adiabatically in vacuum jars and the exotherm times were determined in the manner set forth hereinabove. A 5 liter flask was charged with 3500 grams gms caprolactam which was dried by vacuum distillation of 100 gms. The resulting anhydrous caprolactam was kept under a dry nitrogen stream and continuously stirred at 130 5 C. For each example the appropriate amount of this dried caprolactam as indicated in Table I below was used. A 0.67 molar solution of caprolactam magnesium bromide in caprolactam was prepared by charging to a 1 liter flask 319 gms of a 1.05 solution of caprolactam magnesium bromide in caprolactam and 181 gms dry caprolactam. The mixture was stirred under vacuum at 100 C to thoroughly degas it. For each example the amount of this catalyst solution listed below in Table I was used. For each example the polymerization was conducted by charging the respective amount of molten dried caprolactam into a preheated 130 C Dewar flask containing a magnetic stirring bar. The flask was covered with a plastic film and an iron constantan thermocouple connected to a recording potentiometer was inserted into the center of the caprolactam. The flask containing the caprolactam was then charged with the amount of 2 pyrrolidinone and acetyl caprolactam indicated in Table I for each example and the resulting mixture was agitated with the magnetic stirrer. The temperature of the mixture was adjusted to about 120 C. The respective amounts of the catalyst solution for each example was then heated to 130 C, and charged to the respective flasks. For each example, approximately 226 gms 2 moles of caprolactam were polymerized. For each example, the resulting adiabatic exotherm time was determined as discussed above. The exotherm time, the respective mole percent of catalyst, initiator and pyrrolidinone for each example and the percentage of pyrrolidinone based on the acyl lactam groups pyrrolidinone are listed below in Table II.