# Novel n acyl isopropylglycine derivatives.

## Abstract
N acyl N isopropylglycines having the formula

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A compound of the formulaEMI7.1 wherein R is C1 C20 alkyl, C1 C20 cycloalkyl, aryl, benzyl, or substituted benzyl. 2. The compound of Claim 1 wherein R is C1 C4 alkyl. 3. The compound of Claim 1 which isN acetyl N isopropylglycine.

## Description
NOVEL N ACYL N ISOPROPYLGLYCINE DERIVATIVES Background of the Invention This invention relates to novel N acyl Nisopropylglycine derivatives which are useful as intermediates in preparing N phosphonomethylglycine.N phosphonomethylglycine, known also by its common name glyphosate, is an effective and commercially important phytotoxicant which is used in controlling a broad spectrum of weeds and other undesirable vegetation. Because of glyphosate s commercial importance, much research has been devoted to improving processes for its preparation. Processes for preparing glyphosate by dealkylation have been developed wherein N alkyl glyphosate is employed as a starting material. Such processes have created a need for precursor compounds to prepare such N alkyl glyphosate compounds. Among such precursor compounds which can be employed are substituted glycine, and in particular, N acyl Nalkylglycine. N acyl N methylglycine and N acyl Nbenzylglycine are known, but these compounds do not readily undergo dealkylation to provide glyphosate.There is needed precursor compounds which will provideN alkyl glyphosate that can be easily converted to glyphosate by dealkylation. Summary of the Invention The present invention relates to novelN acyl N isopropylglycine derivatives of Formula I EMI1.1 wherein R is C1 C20 alkyl, C1 C20 cycloalkyl, aryl, benzyl, and substituted benzyl. As used herein the term aryl is intended to mean phenyl or substituted phenyl. The substituents referred to above with respect to substituted benzyl and substituted phenyl include typically from 1 to 3 substituents on the phenyl ring. These substituents are typically selected independently fromC1 C4 alkyl, C1 C4 alkoxy, halo, nitro, cyano, haloalkyl, and methylenedioxy. The substituents are located at any position on the phenyl ring, but in some instances steric hindrance requires substitution on non adjacent positions. Such substituents are well known to those skilled in the art and include, for example, t butyl. Preferred for economic reasons are compounds of Formula I where R is C1 C4 alkyl. Most preferred for ease of synthesis and economic reasons is the compound of Formula I whereR is CH3, N acetyl N isopropylglycine. The compounds of this invention are important intermediates in preparing N phosphonomethylglycine. Detailed Description of the Invention The compounds of this invention I where R is as previously defined can be prepared as shown below in Equation A from an appropriate N isopropyl amide of Formula 11 in a cobalt carbonyl catalyzed reaction with formaldehyde in the presence of a mixture of carbon monoxide and hydrogen. The procedure is described generally by H. Wakamatsu, J.Uda, and N. Yamkami, J. Chem. Soc. Chem. Comm., 1540, 1971 , the teachings of which are incorporated herein by reference. Equation AEMI3.1 The reaction can be carried out in any suitable organic solvent, such as, for example, dioxane, tetrahydrofuran, ethyl acetate and the like. By using an excess of formaldehyde, a moderate reaction temperature in the range of about 800C to 1200C and the presence of controlled amounts of water as described in more detail in R. Stern et al,Synthetic Comm., 12, 1111, 1982 , the teachings of which are incorporated by reference, it is possible to obtain yields of I of up to 86 and higher. The compounds of Formula I can also be prepared from N isopropylglycine III as shown generally in Equation B. The reaction may be conducted using a a Schotten Bauman technique as described in Organic Chemistry, R. T. Morrison andR. H. Boyd, 3rd Ed., Allyn and Bacon, Inc., Boston, 1973, p. 666, or b heating the reaction mass with an appropriately substituted anhydride as shown inAdvanced Organic Chemistry, J. March, 2nd Ed.,McGraw Hill Book Co., N.Y., 1977, p. 383. Equation BEMI4.1 This invention is further illustrated by the following example. Example 1 Preparation of N Acetyl N I sopropylglycine In a 300 ml autoclave, under a blanket of argon, was placed 10.1 g 0.1 mol of N isopropylacetamide, 6.0 g 0.2 mol paraformaldehyde, 1.0 g 2.9 mmol of Co2 CO 8, and 100 ml of dioxane which contained 5.4 g of water. The autoclave was pressurized with syn gas CO H2, 1 1 1.1 x 107 N m2 at ambient temperature and then heated to 1000C with stirring.After 2 hours, heating was discontinued, and the homogeneous reaction mixture was removed from the autoclave by suction cooling provided 13.7 g 86 of N acetyl N isopropylglycine mp 93.5 95.0 C NMR CDCl3 61.0 1.4 m, 6H, CH CH3 2 syn and anti , 2.0 and 2.1 s, 3H, COCH3 syn and anti , 4.0 s, 2H,NCH2 , 4.0 5.2 m, 1H, C CH3 2 syn and anti , 11.8 s, 1H, CO2H . Anal. Calcd. for C7H13NO3 C, 52.82 H, 8.23 N, 8.80 Found C, 52.70 H, 8.25 N, 8.80 Similarly, if one reacts N isopropylstearylamide, N isopropylcyclohexylamide, andN isopropylbenzamide with paraformaldehyde in the presence of syn gas and Co2 CO 8, one can isolateN isopropyl N stearoylglycine I, R n C17H35 , N cyclohexoyl N isopropylglycine I, R cyclo C6H1l , and N benzoyl N isopropylglyCine I, R C6H5 , respectively. The other compounds within the scope of this invention can be prepared in similar fashion. Example 2 Conversion of N Acetyl N Isopropylglycine To N I sopropyl N Phosphonomethylglycine To a 50 ml 3 necked flask fitted with a stir bar, condenser, thermometer, and an addition funnel was added 4.23 g 26.6 mmol of N acetyl N isopropyl glycine dissolved in 10 ml of 20 HCl. The solution was heated to reflux for 6 hours. At this point, 2.29 g 27.9 mmol of phosphorous acid was added to the solution and 2.59 g 31.9 mmol of 37 formaldehyde solution was placed in the addition funnel. The formaldehyde solution was added slowly over an hour at 1050C. This temperature was then maintained for an additional 5 hours after the addition was complete. The volatiles were stripped from the reaction mixture under aspirator pressure to leave a viscous oil. The oil was dissolved in 5 ml of H2O and slowly began to crystallize. The crystals were collected by filtration, washed with 5 ml of H2O, and air dried to yield 3.65 g 65.0 of N isopropylN phosphonomethylglycine pure by NMR . The filtrate and water wash were concentrated to dryness and purified by ion exchange chromatography to yield an additional 1.58 g of product also pure by NMR . The total yield of N isopropyl N phosphonomethylglycine was 5.23 g 93.0 . The compounds of this invention I are important intermediates in preparing N isopropylN phosphonomethylglycine V as shown below inEquation C. Equation CEMI6.1 The di and tri alkyl metal salts ofN isopropyl N phosphonomethylglycine derivatives V can be easily converted to N phosphonomethylglycine by thermal dealkylation in accordance with the procedure described by Balthazor and Miller in U.S.S.N. 09 21 2322 A 09 21 2322 A filed simultaneously herewith. Although this invention has been described with respect to specific modifications, the details thereof are not to be construed as limitations for it will be apparent that various equivalents, changes, and modifications may be resorted to without departing from the spirit and scope thereof, and it is understood that such equivalent embodiments are intended to be included herein.