# OPTICAL RECORDING MEDIUM FORMED OF CHALCOGEN OXIDE AND METHOD FOR PRODUCING SAME

## Claims
Verfahren zum Herstellen eines optischen Auffzeichnungsme diums, bestehend aus

## Description
The present invention relates to an optical recording medium, and particularly to an optical recording medium formed of a chalcogenide oxide that may be recorded and erased by light, preferably, formed of a tellurium oxide, and a method for producing the same. More specifically, the invention relates to an optical recording medium whose optical recording properties are retained in a stabilized condition for a long period of time and which has excellent adhesive properties relative to a substrate. For the optical recording medium, there are known a system for forming small holes or bubbles by heat energy of a laser beam and a system for varying optical characteristics of a film. In the former system, since a change in uneven shape occurs in a recording film layer during the recording, the recording film and the substrate are liable to change in quality and produce corrosion with the passage of time, and therefore, usually two recording media are formed into an air sandwiched construction for use. In the latter, however, such construction is not necessary and two recording media can be simply bonded together for use, and therefore, this system has an advantage that the manufacturing step may be simplified considerably. Among materials used for the latter system, there is known a material having high sensitivity, that is, a material whose optical characteristics are greatly changed with respect to a predetermined incident light intensity, such as a chalcogenide oxide, particularly, a tellurium oxide TeOx, where X is 0 X 2.0. Known methods for producing a tellurium oxide film include a method which comprises placing powder of TeO₂ on a boat type heater of W or Mo, heating the heater, and effecting vacuum evaporation while reducing part of TeO₂ a method which comprises introducing a mixture of TeO₂ powder and various reduced metals into a quartz crucible under vacuum, and a method which comprises using individual vaporizing sources to simultaneously vaporize TeO₂ and metal Te. Among these methods, the former two methods are simple but in these two methods, the boat or reducing force of the reducing metal changes during the evaporation, and therefore have a disadvantage in that a composition the vaporized film in a wall thickness direction is subjected to an irregular change. According to the method which uses two vaporizing sources, an even film can be obtained. The film of TeOx produced by this method whose X is less than 1 has the advantages in that a blackening initiation temperature is low and the sensitivity is high. However, where the film is left under a relatively high temperature less than the blackening initiation temperature and where it is left under a high humidity, a change of transmittance is great. For this reason, TeOx which is poor in sensitivity but whose X is more than 1 is generally used mainly in view of stability of the film. Where for the substrate, plastics materials such as an acrylic sheet, a polycarbonate sheet etc. are used, these materials are relatively large in gas transmission rate, and therefore it poses a problem in that vapor, oxygen and the like enter with the passage of time to oxidize the chalcogenide suboxide thus deteriorating the sensitivity. Many techniques intended to improve the stability of the chalcogenide group recording media have already been disclosed, for example, such as scattering into metal having good corrosion resistance Japanese Patent Application Laid Open No. 164,037 83 , coating with an organic material Japanese Patent Application Laid Open Nos. 21,892 81, 125,248 83 and 203,643 83 coating with an inorganic material Japanese Patent Application Laid Open No. 199,449 83 forcible oxidation of a surface Japanese Patent Application Laid Open Nos. 3,442 81, 94,144 83, 189,850 83 and 2,245 84 , which often involve cumbersome operation, and insufficient effect. US A 4,357,366 describes an optical recording mediun comprising a recording layer of tel lurium sub oxide TeOx X ² and a protective layer of TeO₂. Accordingly, it is an object of the invention to produce an optical recording medium and method for which is improved in respect of its stability for a long period of time. It is another object of the invention to produce an optical recording medium which display excel lent effects also in terms of adhesive properties rel atve to the substrate. The invention provides a method of producing an optical recording medium according to Cl aim I. An optical recording medium produced in accordance with the invention may comprise a a tel I urium or tellurium sub oxide TeOx, 0⁵X 2 layer and b a tel I urium dioxide TeO₂ I ayer, which are laminated or a a tel Iurium dioxide TeO₂ , b tel Iurium and or a tel I urium sub oxide TeOx, O X 2 and c a tel lurium dioxide TeO₂ layer, which are I aminated. According to a feature of the invention, an optical recording medium can be produced in which a film is formed so that tel I urium or tel I urium oxide TeOx is formed and the proportion X of an oxygen component in the direction of thickness layer changes from 0 to 2. The aforementioned optical recording medium is accomplished in such a manner that in forming a tellurium or tellurium oxide TeOx, 0 X 2.0 layer from metal tellurium passing through inert gas, oxygen gas or a mixture thereof which are generally merely sometimes referred to as gas formed into a plasma by a high frequency electric power on the substrate, a film is formed while varying partial pressure of oxygen of said gas or while varying the high frequency power. Alternatively, the optical recording medium is accomplished by being oxidized in the plasma after the tellurium oxide TeOx 0 X 2, preferably 0 X 1.0 has been formed from the metal tellurium vapor passing through the inert gas, oxygen gas or the mixture thereof formed into the plasma by the high frequency power on the substrate. FIG. 1 is a structural view of an optical recording medium haing a tellurium dioxide layer on the surface thereof FIG. 2 is a structural view of an optical recording medium having a tellurium dioxide on the joining surface between the surface and the substrate FIG. 3 is a structural view of an optical recording medium whose film composition changes in the direction of thickness, and FIG. 4 is a schematic view of an ion plating device for embodying the present invention. In the present invention, metal tellurium is vaporized by the ion plating method under the atmosphere of oxygen gas and or inert gas which is sometimes generally merely referred to as gas . More specifically, as shown in the conceptual view of FIG. 4, the manufacturing device comprises a heating boat 2 provided within a vacuum vessel 3 to place metal tellurium 1 thereon, a substrate holder 8 for holding a substrate 7 opposedly thereto and a high frequency exciting coil 4. The vacuum vessel 3 is filled with oxygen gas and or inert gas. Preferably, in order to obtain a stable tellurium suboxide film, the vacuum vessel is first formed into high vacuum above 1.3 x 10 Under this condition, voltage of 50 to 500 Watt is applied to the spiral shaped high frequency exciting coil 4 to form a high frequency electric field which excites the gas to produce a plasma. While the plasma produced is controlled according to the shape and size of the coil, the intensity of electric field and the vacuum degree, the control thereof can be easily made to provide for controlling with high accuracy. After the plasma has been produced, the heating boat 2 is energized to heat, melt and vaporize the metal tellurium 1. Vapor pressure of tellurium is determined by the heating temperature and the pressure within the vacuum vessel 3, and the amount of vaporization of tellurium is controlled by an area of an opening of the boat. Vaporized particles of tellurium having passed through the plasma are partly oxidized by oxygen ions within the plasma and by impacts of radicals to be deposited on the substrate surface together with not oxidized vaporized particles, as schematically shown in FIG. 4. In FIG. 4, reference numerals 5, 5 denote vaporized particles of oxidized tellurium, and 6, 6 denote unoxidized vaporized particles. Examples of substrate herein used include an acrylic sheet, a polycarbonate sheet and various plastics. The composition value of X of the tellurium oxide can be freely controlled by varying the magnitude of power applied to the spiral coil like high frequency exciting coil 4, the partial pressure Po of oxygen gas and or vaporization speed of metal tellurium. For example, the partial pressure Po of the gas may be increased, applied power may be increased or vaporization speed of metal tellurium may be reduced to thereby increase the X. Thus, the recording medium shown in FIG. 1 may be obtained firstly by forming tellurium or a tellurium suboxide layer on the substrate selecting the high frequency power, partial pressure of the gas and vaporization speed of metal tellurium, and secondly immediately varying at least more than one conditions of the high frequency power, partial pressure of the gas and vaporization speed of metal tellurium using the same vaporizing device and same vaporizing speed. The heat treatment annealing applied to the TeOx film formed in accordance with the above described film forming method is effective to further stabilize the film construction and can be used also in the present invention. For example, the TeOx film subjected to annealing at 80 C for three hours after the film has been formed shows no change in optical characteristics by a laser power when reading takes place, which is effective. It is further possible to contain a material having a great laser absorptivity such as Sb, Mo, Ge, Se, Bi, In, Sn etc. in the TeOx film. The device shown in FIG. 4 was used. Gas was discharged till intial pressure P assumed 1.3 x 10 For the purpose of comparison, a material which forms no tellurium dioxide film referred to as Comparative Example A and a film obtained by simulataneously vaporizing metal tellurium and tellurium dioxide from individual vaporizing sources and comprising a tellurium low oxide having a thickness of 0.1µm of X 0.6 were fomred by vacuum vaporization. Next, only the vaporizing source for the tellurium dioxide was heated to melt and vaporize the tellurium dioxide to form a tellurium dioxide layer on the tellurium low oxide layer hereinafter referred to as Comparative Example B . Thee three kinds of recording media were subjected to recording and readout by a semiconductor laser of wavelength of 830 nm. The recording was carried out with a laser power of 7mW and the diameter of beam of 1.0µm, and the readout was carried out with a power of 1mW. As the result, no difference in characteristic was found. Next, the medium was put into a thermo hygrostate vessel of temperature 40 C and relative humidity 90 , and after the passage of 30 days, laser output of 20 to 50 mW is required to effect normal recording for Comparative Examples A and B, apparently showing the deterioration of characteristics. However, in the Example of the present invention, no change arises as compared with the state immdiately after the formation of a film, which is effective in improvement in stability. The result of the peeling test in which 100 notches each comprising a 1 mm square were formed on the film surface by means of a sharp edged tool and scotch tapes were applied thereto to pull them up by 90 shows that the Example and Comparative Example A have no peeling between the film surface and the substrate surface to obtain a film having sufficient strength to withstand practical use whereas Comprative Example B shows a complete peeling, thus showing that a strong film may not be formed by the mere vacuum vaporization method. The TeO₂ layer 10 on the surface of the recording medium may be formed by oxidizing the recording medium produced in accordance with the aforementioned method under the atmosphere of oxygen gas formed into a plasma preferably by the high frequency power to form part of the surface into an inactive layer which principally comprises TeO₂. Where oxidization is carried out by the same device as that which has formed a recording film, vaporization of metal tellurium is stopped upon termination of film formation, and high frequency power is applied while introducing oxygen gas so as to assume partial pressure of the gas selected in the range of from 1.3 x 10 Particularly preferably, the partial pressure of the oxygen gas introduced in the present invention is in the range of from 1.3 x 10 The magnitude of high frequency power applied to the high frequency exciting coil and the time for generating the plasma during the oxidization is related to the thickness of the surface layer of the recording film oxidized and should be selected according to the object. If the high frequency power is excessively high, the substrate becomes softened during the progress of oxidizing the surface layer, and in the excessive case, cracks occur in the surface and as the result, deformation results hardly to read out which is not favorable. On the other hand, if the high frequency power is excessively low, the generation of plasma is not marked, and the effect of oxidization cannot be expected. Thus, the high frequency power is preferably in the range of from 50 to 600 Watt more preferably, from 100 to 500 Watt . The device shown in FIG. 4 was used. Gas was discharged till initial pressure P assumes 1.3 x 10 After formation of a film, vaporization of the metal tellurium is stopped, and the same device is used to introduce the oxygen gas so that the vacuum vessel assumes 5.3 x 10 In Table 1, the values of properties were obtained in the following As shown in Table 1, the formation of film by mere vacuum vaporization method involves a problem in stability as well as adhesive properties. The oxized layer by vacuum vaporization method was improved in stability considerably but involves a problem in adhesive properties. The formation of film by ion plating is excellent in adhesive properties, and when an oxidized layer is provided thereon, the stability is apparently enchanced to the extent that it can be put to practical use. All the recording media were subjected to recording by a semiconductor laser having a wavelength of 830 nm. Practical recording and readout characteristics were exhibited. In the recording medium shown in FIG. 2, a TeO₂ layer was first formed on the substrate selecting the high frequency power, partial pressure of gas and vaporization speed of metal tellurium, and immediately thereafter the same vaporization device and the same vaporization source were used to form tellurium or a tellurium suboxide layer by varying at least more than one conditions of the high frequency power, partial pressure of gas and vaporization speed of metal tellurium. Subsequently, the initial conditions were again restored to thereby continuously form tellurium dioxide layers. The device shown in FIG. 4 was used. Gas was discharged till the initial pressure P assumes 1.3 x 10 For the purpose of comparison, a material in in which no TeO₂ film is formed which is Comparative Example A . Another Comparative Example comprises a material in which a metal tellurium and tellurium dioxide were formed by use of the device having individual vaporization sources. First, only the vaporization source for the tellurium dioxide was heated to melt and vaporize the tellurium dioxide to form a tellurium dioxide layer on the substrate. Then, the metal tellurium and tellurium dioxide were simultaneously vaporized, and a film comprising a tellurium suboxide of thickness 0.1 µm having X 0.7 was formed by vacuum vaporization. Next, only the vaporization source of tellurium dioxide was heated to form a tellurium dioxide layer on said tellurium suboxide layer to obtain a recording medium comprising a substrate TeO These three kinds of recording media were subjected to recording and readout by a semiconductor laser having a wavelength of 830 nm. Recording was carried out with a laser power of 7 mW and a beam diameter of 1.8 µm, and readout was carried out with a power of 1 mW. No difference in characteristics was found in all media. Next, the medium was put into a thermo hygrostat having a temperature of 40 C and a relative humidity of 90 , and after the passage of 30 days, laser output of 20 to 50 mW was required to effect normal recording in Comparative Examples A and B, apparently showing the deterioration of the characteristics. However, according to the Examples of the present invention, no change occurs as compared with that immediately after formation of film, which is effective in terms of increase in stability. 100 notches each comprising 1 mm square are formed in the film surface by a sharp edged tool and scotch tapes are applied thereto to pull them up by an angle of 90 degrees for the peeling test. The result showed that in the Examples and Comparative Example A, no peeling was found between the film surface and the substrate surface to obtain a film having sufficient strength to put it to practical use. However, in Comparative Example B, complete peeling appeared, and a strong film may not be formed by vacuum vaporization. According to one example of the present invention, tellurium or a tellurium suboxide TeOx, X is less than 1 in this example was first formed selecting the high frequency powder, partial pressure of gas and or vaporization speed of metal tellurium, and immediately thereafter the same vaporization device and the same vaporization source were used to continuously or stepwisely varying at least more than one conditions of the high frequency power, partial pressure of gas and vaporization speed of metal tellurium hereinafter referred to as film forming conditions , whereby the proportion value of X of oxygen component in the film is increased to form a film so that in the uppermost surface, X is more than 1, preferably 2 TeO₂ , thus obtaining an optical recording medium in which the X is varied from 0 to 2 thicknesswise from the surface of the substrate FIG. 3 . In this recording medium, an anti corosive layer may be formed on the surface and a layer having a high sensitivity may be formed in the vicinity of the substrate, thus providing an advantage that the thickness of the optical recording medium The device shown in FIG. 4 was used. Gas was discharged till the initial pressure P assumes 1.3 x 10 These two kinds of recording media were subjected to recording and readout by a semiconductor laser having a wavelength of 830 nm, and excellent recording and readout characteristics were exhibited. Then, the medium was put into a thermo hygrostat of temperature 40 C and relative humidity 90 , and after the passage of 30 days, the increased laser output was required to effect normal recording in Comparative Example A, apparently showing the deterioration of the characteristics. However, in the Example of the present invention, no change is found as compared to that immediately after formation of film, showing that it is effective in improvement in stability. 100 notches each comprising 1 mm square were formed in the film surface by a sharp edged tool and scotch tapes were applied thereto to pull them up by an angle of 90 degrees for peeling examination. The result shows that in the Example, no peeling is found between the film surface and the substrate surface to obtain a film having a sufficient strength to withstand practical use whereas in Comparative Example A, complete peeling appeared, indicating that a strong film may not be formed by vacuum vaporization method. The device shown in FIG. 4 was used. Gas was discharged till the initial pressure P assumes 1.3 x 10 This recording medium was subjected to recording by a semiconductor laser having a wavelength of 830 nm, and excellent recording and readout characteristics were exhibited. Then, the medium was put into a thermo hygrostat of temperature 40 C and relative humidity 90 for 30 days, after which similar test was carried out. The result showed the excellent stability with no difference in the readout characteristic. Further 100 notches each comprising 1 mm square were formed in the film surface by a sharp edged tool and scotch tapes were applied thereto to pull them up by 90 for peeling test. The result shows that no peeling occured and a film having a sufficient strength for practical use was obtained. The device shown in FIG. 4 was used. Gas was discharged till the initial pressure P assumes 1.3 x 10 It has been found from the measurement of a composition in the direction of thickness the formed film by the Auger electronic spectral method that the layer near the substrate surface comprises X 0, or Te alone, and the uppermost surface comprises X 2.0, or TeO₂ alone. It was further confirmed that an intermediate layer has gradually increased in X from the layer near the substrate surface. Also, the wallthickness of the formed film was 0.12 µm. This recording medium was subjected to recording by a semiconductor laser having a wavelength of 830 nm. The result showed that the excellent recording and reproducing characteristics were obtained. Then, the medium was put into a thermo hygrostat of temperature 40 C and relative humidity 90 for 30 days, after which similar test was carried out. The result showed that no difference in recording and readout characteristics was found and the excellent stability was obtained. 100 notches each comprising 1 mm square were formed in the film surface by a sharp edged tool and scotch tapes were applied thereto to pull them up by 90 for peeling test. The result showed that no peeling occured and a film having a sufficient strength for practical use was obtained. For the purpose of comparison, metal tellurium and tellurium dioxide are formed by the device having individual vaporization sources. The vacuum vaporization was carried out for trial to form a film having the same structure as that of the Example while controlling the vaporization speeds of metal terrium and terrium dioxide. However, the manufacturing was difficult. The device shown in FIG. 4 was used. Gas was discharged till the initial pressure P assumed 1.3 x 10 It has been found from the measurement of a composition wallthicknesswise of the formed film by the Auger electronic spectral method that the layer near the substrate surface comprises X 0, or a Te layer and the uppermost surface comprisses X 2.0, or TeO₂. It was further confirmed that an intermediate layer has gradually increased in X from the layer near the substrate to the surface layer. Also, the wallthickness of the formed film was 0.10 µm. This recording medium was subjected to recording by a semiconductor laser having a wavelength of 830 nm. The result showed that the excellent recording and readout characteristics were obtained. Then, the medium was put into a thermo hygrostat of temperature 40 C and relative humidity 90 for 30 days, after which similar test was carried out. The result showed that no difference in recording and readout characteristics was found and the excellent stability was obtained. 100 notches each comprising 1 mm square were formed in the film surface by a sharp edged tool and scotch tapes were applied thereto to pull them up by 90 for peeling test. The result showed that no peeling occured and a film having a sufficient strength for practical use was obtained. For the purpose of comparison, metal tellurium and tellurium dioxide were formed by the device having individual vaporization sources. The vacuum vaporization was carried out for trail to form a film having the same structure as that of the Example while controlling the vaporization speeds of metal terrium and terrium dioxide. However, the manufacturing was difficult. According to this invention, tellurium particles vaporized within the vacuum vessel are activated during the passage thereof into the oxygen gas plasma, and part thereof is oxidized and deposited on the subjectrate. It is therefore possible to form a stabilized tellurium suboxide layer which is hard to be peeled and to be affected by environments. Further, according to the invention, since the stabilized oxide film is formed on the surface of the tellurium suboxide layer, the stability of the tellurium low oxide layer may be further enhanced. According to the invention, since the tellurium suboxide layer and oxidized film are integrally formed, foreign substances do not enter the boundary, and because of this, the adhesive properties between the films are excellent. Further, the tellurium dioxide exhibits the excellent stability for a long period of time due to its excellent corrosion resisting properties. The thickness of the tellurium dioxide need not be particularly increased, and the thickness of, say 1nm to 100nm 10 to 1000 Å will suffice to meet the aforementioned object, and this thin layer is used in the range of thickness as described. In the present invention, it is also possible that a polymer film, an inorganic film or the like having a good transparency is provided on the tellurium dioxide layer as necessary to further enhance the stability. According to the invention, other materials, for example, such as a sensitizer or a stabilizer can be included in the tellurium oxide layer and or tellurium layer as necessary in the range not impairing the aforesaid effects. Furthermore, according to the invention, since tellurium or a tellurium oxide layer whose thicknesswise film composition X is varied are formed by the same vaporization source within the same device, the foreign substance does not enter the film, and thus the adhesive properties are excellent. Accordingly, the present invention exhibits distinguished effects in that a recording medium containing tellurium or a tellurium suboxide layer in the region of high sensitivity, which has been considered to be insufficient in stability and unsuitable for practical use, may be realized extremely economically and with high stability.