# CEPHEM COMPOUNDS, PROCESSES FOR PREPARATION THEREOF AND PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITIONS CONTAINING THEM

## Claims
Verbindung der Formel

## Description
Cephalosporins are known to possess good antibiotic activity. GB A 2 056 975 discloses substituted alkyloxime derivatives of 7 2 amino 4 thiazolyl acetamido ceph 3 em 4 carboxylic acid. The present invention relates to new cephem compounds and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. More particularly, it relates to new cephem compounds and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, which have antimicrobial activities and to processes for preparation thereof, to pharmaceutical composition comprising the same, and to a method of using the same therapeutically in the treatment of infectious diseases in human being and animals. Accordingly, it is one object of the present invention to provide new cephem compounds and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, which are active against a number of pathogenic microorganisms. Another object of the present invention is to provide processes for the preparation of new cephem compounds and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. A further object of the present invention is to provide pharmaceutical composition comprising, as active ingredients, said new cephem compounds and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. Still further object of the present invention is to provide a method for the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of infectious diseases caused by pathogenic bacteria in human being and animals. According to a first aspect the present invention relates to a new cephem compound which can be represented by the following general formula I . wherein wherein R¹, R², R³, Z, X, n, X¹ and X² are each as defined above, Some of the starting compounds II are novel and can be prepared by the following Process A . wherein R 2 b and Y are each as defined above, The reaction conditions of Process A can be referred to the ones of Preparations 4 and 5. Regarding the compounds I , Ia , Ib , Ic , Id , Ie , If , Ig , Ih and III , it is to be understood that said compounds include syn isomer, anti isomer and a mixture thereof. For example, with regard to the object compound I , syn isomer means one geometrical isomer having the partial structure represented by the following formula wherein R¹, X¹ and X² are each as defined above and anti isomer means the other geometrical isomer having the partial structure represented by the following formula wherein R¹, X¹ and X² are each as defined above. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the object compounds I are conventional non toxic salts and include a metal salt such as an alkali metal salt e.g. sodium salt, and potassium salt and an alkaline earth metal salt e.g. calcium salt, and magnesium salt, , an ammonium salt, an organic base salt e.g. trimethylamine salt, triethylamine salt, pyridine salt, picoline salt, dicyclohexylamine salt, and N,N dibenzylethylenediamine salt , an organic acid salt e.g. acetate, maleate, tartrate, methanesulfonate, benzenesulfonate, formate, and toluenesulfonate , an inorganic acid salt e.g. hydrochloride, hydrobromide, sulfate, and phosphate , a salt with an amino acid e.g. arginine, aspartic acid, and glutamic acid . In the above and subsequent descriptions of the present specification, suitable examples and illustrations of the various definitions which the present invention include within the scope thereof are explained in detail as follows. The term C₁ C₆ is intended to mean 1 to 6 carbon atoms. Suitable protected amino may include an acylamino or an amino group substituted by a conventional protecting group such as ar C₁ C₆ alkyl which may have at least one suitable substituent s , e.g. benzyl,and trityl . Suitable acyl moiety in the term acylamino may include aliphatic acyl group and acyl group containing an aromatic or heterocyclic ring. And, suitable examples of the said acyl may be C₁ C₆ alkanoyl e.g. formyl, acetyl, propionyl, butyryl, isobutyryl, valeryl, isovaleryl, oxalyl, succinyl, and pivaloyl Suitable heterocyclic group and heterocyclic moiety means saturated or unsaturated, monocyclic or polycyclic heterocyclic group containing at least one hetero atom such as an oxygen, sulfur, and nitrogen atom. And, especially preferably heterocyclic group may be heterocyclic group such as Suitable C₁ C₆ alkyl may include methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, t butyl, pentyl, t pentyl, and hexyl. Suitable C₁ C₆ alkylthio may include methylthio, ethylthio, propylthio, butylthio, pentylthio, and hexylthio. Suitable C₁ C₆ alkoxy may include methoxy, ethoxy, propoxy, isopropoxy, butoxy, t butoxy, pentyloxy, and hexyloxy. Suitable hydroxy C₁ C₆ alkyl may include hydroxymethyl, 1 or 2 hydroxyethyl, 1 or 2 or 3 hydroxypropyl, 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 hydroxybutyl, 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 or 5 hydroxypentyl, and 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 or 5 or 6 hydroxyhexyl. Suitable C₁ C₆ alkanesulfonyl may include mesyl, ethanesulfonyl, pronanesulfonyl, butanesulfonyl, pentanesulfonyl, and hexanesulfonyl. Suitable halogen may include chlorine, bromine, fluorine and iodine, and preferred one is fluorine. Suitable acid residue may include acyloxy, halogen e.g., fluorine, chlorine, bromine or iodine , wherein acyl moiety in the term acyloxy can be referred to the ones as exemplified above. Preferred embodiments of the object compounds I are as follows. Preferred embodiment of The processes for preparing the object compounds of the present invention are explained in detail in the following. The object compound I or a salt thereof can be prepared by reacting the compound II or its reactive derivative at the amino group or a salt thereof with the compound III or its reactive derivative at the carboxy group or a salt thereof. Suitable reactive derivative at the amino group of the compound II may include Schiff s base type imino or its tautomeric enamine type isomer formed by the reaction of the compound II with a carbonyl compound such as aldehyde, ketone or the like a silyl derivative formed by the reaction of the compound II with a silyl compound such as N,O bis trimethylsilyl acetamide, or N trimethylsilylacetamide Suitable salts of the compounds II and III can be referred to the ones as exemplified for the compound I . Suitable reactive derivative at the carboxy group of the compound III may include an acid halide, an acid anhydride, an activated amide, and an activated ester,. The suitable example may be an acid chloride, an acid azide a mixed acid anhydride with an acid such as substituted phosphoric acid e.g. dialkylphosphoric acid, phenylphosphoric acid, diphenylphosphoric acid, dibenzylphosphoric acid, and halogenated phosphoric acid , dialkylphosphorous acid, sulfurous acid, thiosulfuric acid, alkanesulfonic acid e.g. methanesulfonic acid, and ethanesulfonic acid, , sulfuric acid, alkylcarbonic acid, aliphatic carboxylic acid e.g. pivalic acid, pentanoic acid, isopentanoic acid, 2 ethylbutyric acid or trichloroacetic acid, or aromatic carboxylic acid e.g. benzoic acid a symmetrical acid anhydride an activated amide with imidazole, 4 substituted imidazole, dimethylpyrazole, triazole or tetrazole or an activated ester e.g. cyanomethyl ester, methoxymethyl ester, dimethyliminomethyl CH₃ ₂N CH ester, vinyl ester, propargyl ester, p nitrophenyl ester, 2,4 dinitrophenyl ester, trichlorophenyl ester, pentachlorophenyl ester, mesylphenyl ester, phenylazophenyl ester, phenyl thioester, p nitrophenyl thioester, p cresyl thioester, carboxymethyl thioester, pyranyl ester, pyridyl ester, piperidyl ester, and 8 quinolyl thioester , or an ester with a N hydroxy compound e.g. N,N dimethylhydroxylamine, 1 hydroxy 2 1H pyridone, N hydroxysuccinimide, N hydroxyphthalimide and 1 hydroxy 6 chloro 1H benzotriazole, etc. ,. The reaction is usually carried out in a conventional solvent such as water, acetone, dioxane, acetonitrile, chloroform, methylene chloride, ethylene chloride, tetrahydrofuran, ethyl acetate, N,N dimethylformamide, pyridine or any other organic solvents which do not adversely influence the reaction. These conventional solvents may also be used in a mixture with water. When the compound III is used in free acid form or its salt form in the reaction, the reaction is preferably carried out in the presence of a conventional condensing agent such as N,N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide N cyclohexyl N morpholinoethylcarbodiimide N cyclohexyl N 4 diethylaminocyclohexyl carbodiimide N,N diethylcarbodiimide, N,N diisopropylcarbodiimide N ethyl N 3 dimethylaminopropyl carbodiimide N,N carbonylbis 2 methylimidazole pentamethyleneketene N cyclohexylimine diphenylketene N cyclohexylimine ethoxyacetylene 1 alkoxy 1 chloroethylene trialkyl phosphite ethyl polyphosphate isopropyl polyphosphate phosphorus oxychloride phosphoryl chloride phosphorus trichloride thionyl chloride oxalyl chloride triphenylphosphine 2 ethyl 7 hydroxybenzisoxazolium salt 2 ethyl 5 m sulfophenyl isoxazolium hydroxide intra molecular salt 1 p chlorobenzenesulfonyloxy 6 chloro 1H benzotriazole so called Vilsmeier reagent prepared by the reaction of N,N dimethylformamide with thionyl chloride, phosgene, and phosphorus oxychloride. The reaction may also be carried out in the presence of an inorganic or organic base such as an alkali metal bicarbonate, tri lower alkylamine, pyridine, N lower alkylmorphorine,or N,N di lower alkylbenzylamine,. The reaction temperature is not critical, and the reaction is usually carried out under cooling or at ambient temperature. The object compound Ib or a salt thereof can be prepared by subjecting the compound Ia or a salt thereof to elimination reaction of the amino protective group. Suitable salts of the compounds Ia and Ib can be referred to the ones as exemplified for the compound I . The elimination reaction is carried out in accordance with a conventional method such as hydrolysis reduction a method treating the compound Ia wherein protected amino of R 1 a is acylamino with iminohalogenating agent, iminoetherifying agent and then, if necessary, hydrolyzing the resultant. The hydrolysis may include a method using an acid or base or hydrazine. These methods may be selected depending on the kind of the protective groups to be eliminated. Among these methods, hydrolysis using an acid is one of the most common and preferable method for eliminating the protective groups such as substituted or unsubstituted alkoxycarbonyl, for example, tert pentyloxycarbonyl, C₁ C₆ alyanoyl e.g. formyl, acetyl , cycloalkoxycarbonyl, substituted or unsubstituted aralkoxycarbonyl, aralkyl e.g. trityl , substituted phenylthio, substituted aralkylidene, substituted alkylidene, or substituted cycloalkylidene. Suitable acid includes an organic or inorganic acid such as formic acid, trifluoroacetic acid, benzenesulfonic acid, p toluenesulfonic acid, and hydrochloric acid, and the most suitable acid is an acid which can easily be removed from the reaction mixture by a conventional manner such as distillation under reduced pressure, for example, formic acid, trifluoroacetic acid, and hydrochloric acid. The acids can be selected according to the kind of the protective group to be eliminated. When the elimination reaction is conducted with an acid, it can be carried out in the presence or absence of a solvent. Suitable solvent includes water, methylene chloride, alcohol e.g., methanol, and ethanol tetrahydrofuran or any other organic solvents which do not adversely influence the reaction, or a mixture thereof. The elimination reaction using trifluoroacetic acid may be carried out in the presence of anisole. The hydrolysis using hydrazine is commonly applied for eliminating a phthaloyl, succinyl type amino protective group. The elimination using base is used for eliminating an acyl group such as trifluoroacetyl. Suitable base may include an inorganic base and an organic base. The reductive elimination is generally applied for eliminating the protective group, for example, haloalkoxycarbonyl e.g. trichloroethoxycarbonyl, , substituted or unsubstituted aralkoxycarbonyl e.g. benzyloxycarbonyl , 2 pyridylmethoxycarbonyl. Suitable reduction may include, for example, reduction with an alkali metal borohydride e.g. sodium borohydride, , reduction with a combination of a metal e.g. tin, zinc, iron, or the said metal together with a metal salt compound e.g. chromous chloride, and chromous acetate and an organic or inorganic acid e.g. acetic acid, propionic acid, and hydrochloric acid and catalytic reduction. Suitable catalyst includes a conventional one, for example, Raney nickel, platinum oxide, and palladium on carbon. Among the protective groups, the acyl group can generally be eliminated by hydrolysis. Especially, halogen substituted alkoxycarbonyl and 8 quinolyloxycarbonyl groups are usually eliminated by treating with a heavy metal such as copper, or zinc. Among the protective groups, the acyl group can also be eliminated by treating with an iminohalogenating agent e.g. phosphorus oxychloride and an iminoetherifying agent such as lower alkanol e.g. methanol, and ethanol , if necessary, followed by hydrolysis. The reaction temperature is not critical and may suitably be selected in accordance with the kind of the amino protective group and the elimination method as mentioned above, and the reaction is usually carried out under a mild condition such as under cooling or at slightly elevated temperature. The present invention includes, within its scope, the case that the protected carboxy group for R² is transformed into the free carboxy group in the course of the elimination reaction as mentioned above or in the post treatment of the reaction mixture or reaction product. The object compound Id or a salt thereof can be prepared by reacting the compound Ic or a salt thereof with the compound IV or a salt thereof. Suitable salt of the compound Ic can be referred to the ones as exemplified for the compound I . Suitable salt of the compound IV may include a metal salt such as an alkali metal salt e.g., sodium salt, and potassium salt, and silver salt. The present reaction may be carried out in a solvent such as water, phosphate buffer, acetone, chloroform, nitrobenzene, methylene chloride, ethylene chloride, acetonitrile, N,N dimethylformamide, methanol, ethanol, ether, tetrahydrofuran, dimethylsulfoxide, or any other organic solvent which does not adversely affect the reaction, preferably in ones having strong polarities. Among the solvents, hydrophilic solvents may be used in a mixture with water. The reaction is preferably carried out in around neutral medium. When the compound IV is used in a free form, the reaction is preferably conducted in the presence of a base, for example, inorganic base such as alkali metal hydroxide. alkali metal carbonate, alkali metal bicarbonate, and organic base such as trialkylamine,. The reaction temperature is not critical, and the reaction is usually carried out under cooling, at ambient temperature, under warming or under heating. The object compound If or a salt thereof can be prepared by reacting the compound Ie or a salt thereof with the compound V . Suitable salts of the compounds Ie and If can be referred to the ones as exemplified for the compound I . The reaction is usually carried out in a solvent such as water, acetone, tetrahydrofuran, ethanol, ether, N,N dimethylformamide or any other solvent which does not adversely influence the reaction. The reaction temperature is not critical and the reaction is usually carried out under cooling to heating. The object compound Ih or a salt thereof can be prepared by oxidizing the compound Ig or a salt thereof. Suitable salts of the compounds Ig and Ih can be referred to the ones as exemplified for the compound I . The oxidizing agent to be used in this reaction may include an inorganic peracid or a salt thereof e.g. periodic acid, persulfuric acid, or sodium or potassium salt thereof, an organic peracid or a salt thereof e.g. perbenzoic acid, m chloroperbenzoic acid, performic acid, peracetic acid, chloroperacetic acid, trifluoroperacetic acid, or sodium or potassium salt thereof , ozone, hydrogen peroxide, urea hydrogen peroxide, or any other conventional oxidizing agent which can oxidize a thio group to a sulfinyl group. The present oxidation reaction is usually carried out in a conventional solvent which does not adversely influence the reaction such as water, acetic acid, chloroform, methylene chloride, acetone, methanol, ethyl acetate, ethanol or a mixture thereof. The reaction temperature is not critical and the reaction is preferably carried out from under cooling to at ambient temperature. The object compound Ig or a salt thereof can be prepared by reducing the compound Ih or a salt thereof. The present reduction can be carried out by a conventional method which is applied for the transformation of into S , for example, by using phosphorus trichloride, a combination of stannous chloride and acetyl chloride, a combination of an alkali metal iodide e.g. sodium iodide and trihaloacetic anhydride e.g. trifluoroacetic anhydride, ,. The present reduction is usually carried out in a solvent such as acetone, dioxane, acetonitrile, N,N dimethylformamide, benzene, hexane, chloroform, methylene chloride, ethylene chloride, tetrahydrofuran, ethyl acetate, or any other solvent which does not adversely affect the reaction. The reaction temperature is not critical and the reaction is usually carried out under cooling or at ambient temperature. The object compound I and pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof of the present invention are novel compounds which exhibit high antibacterial activity and inhibit the growth of a wide variety of pathogenic microorganisms including Gram positive and Gram negative bacteria and are useful as anti microbial agents. For therapeutic purpose, the compounds according to the present invention can be used in the form of pharmaceutical preparation which contain said compounds, as an active ingredient, in admixture with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier such as an organic or inorganic solid or liquid excipient suitable for oral, parenteral or external administration. The pharmaceutical preparations may be capsules, tablets, dragees, ointments or suppositories, solutions, and suspension, emulsions. If desired, there may be included in the above preparations auxiliary substances, stabilizing agents, wetting or emulsifying agents, buffers and other commonly used additives. While the dosage of the compounds will vary depending upon the age and condition of the patient, an average single dose of about 10 mg, 50 mg, 100 mg, 250 mg, 500 mg and 1000 mg of the compounds according to the present invention was proved to be effective for treating infectious diseases caused by pathogenic bacteria. In general, amounts between 1 mg body and about 6,000 mg body or even more may be administered per day. In order to illustrate the usefulness of the object compound, anti microbial activities of the representative compounds of the present invention are shown below. In vitro antibacterial activity was determined by the two fold agar plate dilution method as described below. One loopful of an overnight culture of each test strain in Trypticase soy broth 10⁸ viable cells per ml was streaked on heart infusion agar HI agar containing graded concentrations of representative test compound, and the minimal inhibitory concentration MIC was expressed in terms of µg ml after incubation at 37 C for 20 hours. The following Preparations and Examples are given for the purpose of illustrating the present invention. To an ice cooled solution of propiolamide 1 g in tetrahydrofuran 10 ml and water 10 ml was added a mixture of triphenylmethanethiol 4.2 g , tetrahydrofuran 10 ml and 1N aqueous solution 1 ml of sodium hydroxide at 0 5 C. The mixture was stirred for 30 minutes at 0 10 C. To the reaction mixture was added water 40 ml and the mixture was cooled. The resultant precipitates were collected by filtration to give Z 3 tritylthioacrylamide 4.2 g . To an ice cooled suspension of Z 3 tritylthioacrylamide 3.9 g in N,N dimethylformamide 40 ml was added phosphorus pentachloride 3.65 g and the mixture was stirred for 30 minutes at 20 C. The reaction mixture was poured into ice water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The separated organic layer was washed with brine, dried over magnesium sulfate and evaporated in vacuo to give Z 3 tritylthioacrylonitrile 2.85 g . To a solution of Z 3 tritylthioacrylonitrile 3.5 g in a mixture of tetrahydrofuran 14 ml , methanol 21 ml and pyridine 0.9 ml was dropwise added a solution of silver nitrate 2.26 mg in a mixture of methanol 55 ml and water 5.5 ml at ambient temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred at 40 C in dark. The precipitate was collected, washed with methanol and dried over phosphorus pentoxide to give Z 2 cyanovinylthio silver 2.46 g . 7 Aminocephalosporanic acid 0.272 g was added to the solution of potassium 1,2,5 thiadiazole 3 thiolate 0.136 g in trifluoroacetic acid 5 ml and the mixture was stirred for a few minutes until the solution turned clear, and then, boron trifluoride etherate 0.434 g was added thereto and the mixture was stirred for 12 hours at room temperature. The reaction mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure and the residue was adjusted to pH 3.0 with 2 aqueous solution of ammonium hydroxide. The precipitates were collected by filtration, washed with cool water, acetone and diethyl ether and dried to give 7 amino 3 1,2,5 thiadiazol 3 yl thiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid 0.210 g . 7 Aminocephalosporanic acid 21.2 g was added to the solution of potassium 1,2,4 thiadiazole 5 thiolate 10.6 g in trifluoroacetic acid 370 ml and the mixture was stirred for a few minutes until the solution turned clear, and then, boron trifluoride etherate 33.8 g was added thereto and the mixture was stirred for 7 hours at room temperature. The reaction mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure and the residue was adjusted to pH 3.0 with 3 aqueous soltuion of ammonium hydroxide. The precipitates were collected by filtration, washed with acetone and diethyl ether and dried to give a crude object compound 28.5 g . The crude object compound 25.0 g was suspended in concentrated hydrochloric acid 230 ml , and the mixture was stirred for 30 minutes at room temperature. After insoluble material was removed by filtration, the solution was adjusted to pH 3.0 with 28 aqueous solution of ammonium hydroxide under ice cooling. The resulting precipitates were collected by filtration, washed with cool water, acetone and diisopropyl ether and dried to give 7 amino 3 1,2,4 thiadiazol 5 yl thiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid 15.8 g . To a solution of 2 2 tritylaminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetic acid syn isomer 0.8 g and diisopropylethylamine 0.43 g in N,N dimethylformamide 20 ml was added mesyl chloride 0.38 g at 20 C and the mixture was stirred at the same temperature for 30 minutes to give an activated acid solution. To a solution of 7 amino 3 1,3,4 thiadiazol 2 yl thiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid 0.57 g and N trimethylsilylacetamide 1.8 g in tetrahydrofuran 20 ml was added the activated acid solution obtained above all at once at 10 C. After being stirred at the same temperature for an hour, the mixture was poured into water and adjusted to pH 2.5 with an aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate. The precipitates were collected by filtration and washed with water to give 7 2 2 tritylaminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetamido 3 1,3,4 thiadiazol 2 yl thiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid syn isomer 1.1 g . A mixture of 2 2 tritylaminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetic acid syn isomer 2.4 g and diisopropylethylamine 1.29 g in N,N dimethylformamide 35 ml was cooled to 30 C and mesyl chloride 1.15 g was added dropwise thereto. The mixture was stirred at 20 to 30 C for 30 minutes to give an activated acid solution. On the other hand, a mixture of benzhydryl 7 amino 3 chloromethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylate 2.18 g and N trimethylsilylacetamide 5.25 g in methylene chloride 20 ml was stirred to be a clear solution for 30 minutes at room temperature and then cooled to 20 C. To this solution was added the activated acid solution obtained above in one portion. The mixture was stirred for 30 minutes at 15 to 10 C, poured into water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was washed with water three times, dried over magnesium sulfate and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was triturated in diisopropyl ether to give benzhydryl 7 2 2 tritylaminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetamido 3 chloromethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylate syn isomer 4.64 g . To a solution of 2 2 tritylaminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetic acid syn isomer 1.3 g and diisopropylethylamine 0.7 g in N,N dimethylformamide 20 ml was added mesyl chloride 0.62 g at 20 C. The mixture was stirred at the same temperature for 30 minutes and added dropwise to a solution of 7 amino 3 1,2,3 thiadiazol 5 yl thiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid 0.9 g and sodium bicarbonate 0.46 g in a mixture of tetrahydrofuran 15 ml and water 15 ml at 0 to 5 C while keeping the pH value at 7.5 to 8.0 with 5 aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate. The solution was stirred for 30 minutes at 0 to 5 C, adjusted to pH 7.5 and poured into water 300 ml . The resultant precipitates were collected by filtration, washed with water and dried to give 7 2 2 tritylaminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetamido 3 1,2,3 thiadiazol 5 yl thiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid syn isomer 1.78 g . The following compounds were obtained according to similar manners to those of Examples 1 to 3. Water 2.7 ml was added to a stirred solution of 7 2 2 tritylaminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetamido 3 1,3,4 thiadiazol 2 yl thiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid syn isomer 0.9 g in formic acid 9 ml at 7 C under ice cooling and the mixture was stirred at the same temperature for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was poured into a mixture of water 150 ml and ethyl acetate 50 ml and adjusted to pH 2.5 with an aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate. The separated organic layer was washed with water, dried over magnesium sulfate and evaporated in vacuo to give 7 2 2 aminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetamido 3 1,3,4 thiadiazol 2 yl thiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid syn isomer 0.4 g . The following compounds were obtained according to a similar manner to that of Example 5. To a mixture of benzhydryl 7 2 2 tritylaminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetamido 3 4 methyl 5 oxo 6 hydroxy 4,5 dihydro 1,2,4 triazin 3 yl thiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylate syn isomer 1.20 g and anisole 2.5 ml in methylene chloride 2.5 ml was added trifluoroacetic acid 5 ml under ice cooling. After being stirred for 30 minutes, the mixture was poured into diisopropyl ether 50 ml . The resultant mixture was adjusted to pH 7 with an aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate. The separated aqueous layer was washed with ethyl acetate, acidified with 6N hydrochloric acid and extracted with a mixture of tetrahydrofuran and ethyl acetate. The extract was washed with a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride, dried and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was triturated in diethyl ether and collected by filtration to give 7 2 2 aminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetamido 3 4 methyl 5 oxo 6 hydroxy 4,5 dihydro 1,2,4 triazin 3 yl thiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid syn isomer 600 mg . The following compounds were obtained according to a similar manner to that of Example 7. To a mixture of benzhydryl 7 2 2 tritylaminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetamido 3 chloromethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylate syn isomer 1.5 g and sodium iodide 769 mg in N,N dimethylformamide was added 3 mercapto 4 methyl 5 oxo 6 hydroxy 4,5 dihydro 1,2,4 triazine 816 mg . After being stirred for 45 minutes at room temperature, the reaction mixture was poured into water. The resulting precipitates were collected by filtration and dissolved in ethyl acetate. The solution was washed with water, an aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate and a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride successively, dried and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was triturated in diisopropyl ether and collected by filtration to give benzhydryl 7 2 2 tritylaminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetamido 3 4 methyl 5 oxo 6 hydroxy 4,5 dihydro 1,2,4 triazin 3 yl thiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylate syn isomer 1.25 g . To a mixture of Z 2 cyanovinylthio silver 492 mg and acetonitrile 10 ml was added sodium iodide 2.3 g under stirring at 10 C. The mixture was stirred for 15 minutes at the same temperature and cooled to 5 C, and then a solution of benzhydryl 7 2 2 tritylaminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetamido 3 chloromethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylate syn isomer 1.5 g in acetonitrile 15 ml was added thereto. The mixture was stirred for 30 minutes at 5 C and the solvent was evaporated to give a residue. To the residue was added a mixture of ethyl acetate 50 ml and water 30 ml . The insoluble material was filtered off and the filtrate was allowed to stand. The separated organic layer was washed with water and an aqueous solution of sodium chloride successively, and dried over magnesium sulfate. The solvent was evaporated to give a residue. The residue was triturated in diisopropyl ether and collected by filtration to give benzhydryl 7 2 2 tritylaminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetamido 3 Z 2 cyanovinylthiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylate syn isomer 1.40 g . The following compounds were obtained according to similar manners to those of Examples 9 and 10. To a solution of N,N dimethylformamide 438 mg in ethyl acetate 5 ml was added phosphorus oxychloride 0.92 g at 0 C and the mixture was stirred for 30 minutes at the same temperature to give a Vilsmeier reagent. To the Vilsmeier reagent was added a mixture of 2 2 tritylaminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetic acid syn isomer 2.39 g and ethyl acetate 15 ml at 0 C and the mixture was stirred for 30 minutes at the same temperature to give an activated acid solution. On the other hand, a mixture of 7 amino 3 1 methyl 4 pyridiniothiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylate 2.36 g , N trimethylsilylacetamide 13 g and tetrahydrofuran 30 ml was stirred for one hour at 30 C, cooled to 20 C and added all at once to the above obtained activated acid solution at 20 C, and the mixture was stirred for one hour at 20 to 10 C. The reaction mixture was poured into a mixture of ethyl acetate 60 ml and water 60 ml , the organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was combined and washed with an aqueous solution of sodium chloride, dried over magnesium sulfate and evaporated. The residue was triturated with diisopropyl ether to give 7 2 2 tritylaminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetamido 3 1 methyl 4 pyridiniothiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylate syn isomer 2.64 g . To a solution of 2 2 aminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetic acid syn isomer 948 mg in N,N dimethylformamide 20 ml were added diisopropylethylamine 1.04 g and mesyl chloride 920 mg at 50 C, and the mixture was stirred for 30 minutes at the same temperature. On the other hand, a mixture of 7 amino 3 hydroxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid 1.0 g , N trimethylsilylacetamide 16 g and tetrahydrofuran 32 ml was stirred for one hour at room temperature, cooled to 45 C and added all at once to the above obtained activated acid solution, and the mixture was stirred for 2 hours at 40 to 30 C. The reaction mixture was poured into a solution of sodium bicarbonate 1.68 g in water 100 ml and the mixture was washed with ethyl acetate 50 ml . The aqueous solution was adjusted to pH 3 4 with 10 hydrogen chloride, salted out and extracted twice with a mixture of tetrahydrofuran 50 ml and ethyl acetate 50 ml . The extract was washed three times with an aqueous solution of sodium chloride and dried over magnesium sulfate. To the extract was added a solution of sodium 2 ethylhexanoate 0.66 g in ether 25 ml and the resulting precipitates were collected by filtration to give sodium 7 2 2 aminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetamido 3 hydroxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylate syn isomer 0.73 g . The following compounds were obtained according to similar manners to those of Example 1 to 3, 12 and 13. A mixture of 7 2 2 tritylaminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetamido 3 1 methyl 4 pyridiniothiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylate syn isomer 2.58 g , formic acid 25 ml and water 7.5 ml was stirred for 3.0 hours at 0 C and evaporated. The residue was triturated with acetone and dissolved in water 200 ml . The mixture was adjusted to pH 3.0 with an aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate and the precipitates were filtered off. The aqueous layer was subjected to column chromatography on macroporus non ionic adsorption resin Diaion HP 20 , and the elution was carried out with 30 aqueous solution of methanol. The fractions containing the object compound were collected, concentrated in vacuo and lyophilized to give 7 2 2 aminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetamido 3 1 methyl 4 pyridiniothiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylate syn isomer 270 mg . The following compounds were obtained according to similar manners to those of Examples 5 and 15. A solution of benzhydryl 7 2 2 tritylaminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetamido 3 1 methyl 1 pyrrolidiniomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylate trifluoroacetate syn isomer 1.25 g in methylene chloride 4 ml was stirred at 0 5 C, and anisole 2.6 ml and trifluoroacetic acid 5.2 ml were added thereto. The mixture was stirred for one hour at 0 5 C. To the reaction mixture was added diisopropyl ether, and the resultant precipitates were collected by filtration, washed with diisopropyl ether and dissolved in water 400 ml . The solution was subjected to column chromatography on macroporus non ionic adsorption resin Diaion HP 20 and the elution was carried out with 30 aqueous solution of methanol. The fractions containing the object compound were collected, concentrated in vacuo and lyophilized to give 7 2 2 aminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetamido 3 1 methyl 1 pyrrolidiniomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylate syn isomer 450 mg . A solution of benzhydryl 7 2 2 tritylaminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetamido 3 E 2 1 methyl 3 pyridiniothio vinyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylate iodide syn isomer 1.9 g , tetrahydrofuran 60 ml and water 4 ml was subjected to column chromatography on Amberlite IRA 400 CF₃COO The following compounds were obtained according to similar manners to those of Examples 7 and 17. A mixture of 7 2 2 aminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetamido 3 acetoxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid syn isomer 3.0 g , 4 methoxypyridine 4.0 g , sodium iodide 8.0 g , acetonitrile 4.0 ml and water 1.0 ml was heated for 2.0 hours at 65 to 68 C, and then water 100 ml was added thereto. The mixture was adjusted to pH 3.0 with 1N hydrogen chloride and the resultant precipitates were filtered off. The aqueous layer was subjected to column chromatography on macroporus non ionic adsorption resin Diaion HP 20 and the elution was carried out with 30 aqueous methanol. The fractions containing the object compound were collected, concentrated in vacuo and lyophilized to give 7 2 2 aminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetamido 3 4 methoxy 1 pyridiniomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylate syn isomer 0.43 g . A solution of benzhydryl 7 2 2 tritylaminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetamido 3 iodomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylate 1 oxide syn isomer 1.97 g and N methylpyrrolidine 204 mg in tetrahydrofuran 10 ml was stirred for 40 minutes at 0 5 C and then diisopropyl ether was added thereto. The resultant precipitates were collected by filtration, washed with diisopropyl ether and air dried to give benzhydryl 7 2 2 tritylaminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetamido 3 1 methyl 1 pyrrolidiniomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylate 1 oxide iodide syn isomer 2.12 g . The following compounds were obtained according to similar manners to those of Example 9, 10, 20 and 21. A solution of benzhydryl 7 2 2 tritylaminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetamido 3 E 2 3 pyridylthio vinyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylate syn isomer 1.74 g , N,N dimethylformamide 17 ml and methyl iodide 2.56 g was stirred for 6.0 hours at room temperature and poured into diisopropyl ether 170 ml . The resultant precipitates were collected by filtration and washed with diisopropyl ether to give benzhydryl 7 2 2 tritylaminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetamido 3 E 2 1 methyl 3 pyridiniothio vinyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylate iodide syn isomer 1.98 g . The following compound was obtained according to a similar manner to that of Example 23. Benzhydryl 7 2 2 tritylaminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetamido 3 1 methyl 3 pyridiniothiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylate iodide syn isomer A mixture of benzhydryl 7 2 2 tritylaminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetamido 3 chloromethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylate syn isomer 35 g , m chloroperbensoic acid 8.64 g and ethyl acetate 300 ml was stirred for 30 minutes at 0 to 5 C and then, water 300 ml , sodium bisulfite and sodium bicarbonate were added thereto. The organic layer was separated, washed with an aqueous solution of sodium chloride, dried over magnesium sulfate and evaporated. The residue was triturated with diisopropyl ether to give benzhydryl 7 2 2 tritylaminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetamido 3 chloromethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylate 1 oxide syn isomer 29.93 g . The following compounds were obtained according to a similar manner to that of Example 25. A mixture of benzhydryl 7 2 2 tritylaminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetamido 3 chloromethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylate 1 oxide syn isomer 29 g , sodium iodide 14.6 g and acetone 300 ml was stirred for 2.0 hours at 0 5 C and evaporated. To the residue were added ethyl acetate 400 ml and water 300 ml , and the organic layer was separated, dried and evaporated. The residue was subjected to column chromatography on silica gel 600 g and the elution was carried out with a mixture of chloroform and ethyl acetate 15 1 . The fractions containing the object compound were combined and evaporated. The residue was triturated with diisopropyl ether to give benzhydryl 7 2 2 tritylaminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetamido 3 iodomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylate 1 oxide syn isomer 13.57 g . A mixture of benzhydryl 7 2 2 tritylaminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetamido 3 1 methyl 1 pyrrolidiniomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylate 1 oxide iodide syn isomer 1.45 g and acetonitrile 14 ml was stirred under cooling in an ice bath, and N,N dimethylaniline 490 mg and phosphorus trichloride 555 mg were added thereto. The mixture was stirred for one hour under cooling in an ice bath, and then diisopropyl ether was added to the reaction mixture. The separated oil was triturated with diisopropyl ether to give benzhydryl 7 2 2 tritylaminothiazol 4 yl 2 difluoromethoxyiminoacetamido 3 1 methyl 1 pyrrolidiniomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylate iodide. This compound was dissolved in a solution of tetrahydrofuran 54 ml and water 3.6 ml . The solution was subjected to column chromatography on Amberlite IRA 400 CF₃COO The following compounds were obtained according to a similar manner to that of Example 28. The following compounds were obtained according to similar manners to those of aforementioned Examples.