# Method of attaching a tube to a fin.

## Abstract
This invention relates to a method of attaching a fluid conducting metal tube 12 a heat dissipating metal fin 14 that includes the following steps. A metal tube 12 is formed having a generally elliptical cross section having first similar ly curved surfaces 22 22 at opposite ends of a major axis thereof and second similarly curved surfaces 24 24 at opposite ends of a minor axis thereof. A heat dissipating metal fin 14 is formed. An elliptically shaped collar 20 is formed on the fin, this collar providing an opening through the fin and being at least about 1 1 2 times the thickness of the metal forming the fin. The tube is fitted inside the opening of the fin so that areas of these two elements are juxtaposed. The tube is expanded along the major axis so as to bring the first similarly curved surfaces at opposite ends thereof into contact with portions of the collar in juxtaposi tion therewith. Expansion of the tube is continued along the major axis and initiated along the tube from opposite ends of the major axis toward the surfaces which were defined at opposite ends of the minor axis of the tube. In this manner, any juxtaposed area of the tube and the collar are subjected to an expansion process in which the tube is moved towards the collar, the two elements are brought into contact with one another, and then the two elements are expanded together. The expansion process is progressively terminated between the tube and collar from the major axis of the tube toward the minor axis thereof. The termination occurs in such juxtaposed areas as those areas reach a condition in which the tube is being deformed plastically but the collar is still being deformed elastically.