# Spirobenzofuranones, their production and pharmaceutical compositions containing them.

## Abstract
Novel spirobenzofuranone compounds of the formula and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, have gastric secretion inhibitive, antiinflammatory and analgesic activities, and are of value as drugs. The invention relates to such compounds, to processes for their production and to their use as drugs.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A spirobenzofuranone compound of the formula EMI41.1 wherein Ring A represents a benzene ring which is substituted by at least one of carboxyl, lower alkoxycarbonyl, carbamoyl which may be substituted, ureido which may be substituted, thioureido which may be substituted, lower alkylthio, lower alkylsulphinyl, lower alkyl sulphonyl, mono or bis ss hydroxyethyl amino, aminoethyl which may be substituted, cyano and phenyl, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. 2. A compound according to Claim 1, wherein the benzene ring is substituted at the 5 or 7 position on the ring. 3. A compound according to Claim 1 or 2, wherein the substituent on the ring is carboxyl, C1 4 alkylsulphonyl or mono or bis p hydroxyethyl amino. 4. A compound according to Claim 3, wherein the substituent is carboxyl or methylsulphonyl. 5. A compound according to Claim 1, which is 5 bis ss hydrosarethwrl aminospiro benzo bgfuran 2 3H ,l cyclopropane 5 one. 6. A compound according to Claim 1, which is 5 beta hydroxyethyl aminospiroLbenzo b luran 2 3H , l cyclopropane 3 one. 7. A compound according to Claim 1, which is 7 bis ss hydroxyethyl aminospiro benzo b furan 2 3H , 1 cyclopropane 3 one. 8. A compound according to Claim 1, which is 7 p hydroxyethyl aminospiro benzo b furan 2 311 , 1 cyclo propane 3 one. 9. A compound according to Claim 1, which is 5carboxyspiro benzo b furan 2 311 , 1 cyclopropane 3 one. 10. A compound according to Claim 1, which is 7carboxyspiro benzo b furan 2 3H , lt cyclopropane 3 one. 11. A compound according to Claim 1, which is 5 methylsulphonylspiro benzo b furan 2 3H , 1 cyclo propane 3 one. 12. A pharmaceutical composition which comprises, as an active ingredient, an effective amount of a compound or its salt as defined in any of Claims 1 to 11, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent there for. 13. The use for the management of peptic ulcer in a mammal of a compound or its salt as defined in any ofClaims 1 to 11. 14. A process for producing a spirobenzofuranone compound of the formula EMI42.1 wherein Ring A represents a benzene ring which is substituted by at least one of carboxyl, lower alkoxyearbonyl, carbamoyl which may be substituted, ureido which may be substituted, thioureido which may be substituted, lower alkylthio, lower alkyl sulphinyl, lower alkylsulphonyl, mono or bis p hydroxyethyl amino, aminoethyl which may be substituted, cyano and phenyl, which comprises decarboxylating a compound of the formula EMI43.1 wherein Ring A is as defined above. 15. A process for producing a spirobenzofuranone compound of the formula EMI43.2 wherein Ring A represents a benzene ring which is substituted by at least one of carboxyl, lower alkoxycarbonyl, carbamoyl which may be substituted, ureido which may be substituted, thioureido which may be substituted, lower alkylthio, lower alkyl sulphinyl, lower alkylsulphonyl, mono or bis p hydroxyethyl amino, aminoethyl which may be substituted, cyano and phenyl, which comprises converting at least one of the substituents of a compound of the formula EMI44.1 wherein Ring B represents a benzene ring which is substituted by at least one of amino, acetyl, halogen, carboxyl, lower alkoxycarbonyl, carbamoyl which may be substituted, ureido which may be substituted, thioureido which may be substituted, lower alkylthio, lower alkylsulphinyl, p hydroxyethyl amino, aminoethyl which may be substituted and cyano.

## Description
Spirobenzofuranones, their Production and Use This invention relates to novel spiro compounds being of use as medicines and intermediates for the production of medicines, and methods for producing these compounds. More particularly, this invention relates to novel spiro compounds of the formula EMI1.1 wherein Ring A represents a benzene ring which is substituted by at least one of carboxyl, lower alkoxycarbonyl, carbamoyl which may be substituted, ureido which may be substituted, thioureido which may be substituted, lower alkylthio, lower alkyl sulphinyl, lower alkylsulphonyl, mon or bis p hydroxyethyl amino, aminoethyl which may be substituted, cyano and phenyl, and pharmaceutically acceptable salts there of, and their production. Referring to the above formula I , the lower alkoxycarbonyl group may for example be C2 6 alkoxycarbonyl e.g. methoxycarbonyl, etboxycarbonyl, n propoxycarbonyl, iso propoxycarbonyl or butoxycarbonyl . As examples of the carbamoyl group which may optionally be substituted, there may be mentioned carbamoyl or C1 4 alkylcarbamoyl e.g. methylcarbamoyl, ethylcarbamoyl, n propylcarbamoyl or iso propylcarbamoyl , and the alkyl moiety of C14 alkylcarbamoyl may further be substituted by di Cl 4 alkylamino or N C1 4 alkyl pyrrolidin 2 yl. As examples of the ureido group which may optionally be substituted, there may be mentioned ureido or C14 alkylureido e.g. methylureido, ethylureido, n propyl ureido or iso propylureido . As examples of the thioureido group which may optionally be substituted, there may be mentioned thioureido or C1 4 alkylthioureido e.g. methylthioureido, ethylthioureido, n propylthioureido or iso propylthioureido . The lower alkyl moieties of the lower alkylthio, lower alkylsulphinyl and lower alkylsulphonyl groups may, for example, be Cl4 alkyl e.g. methyl, ethyl, n propyl or iso propyl . As examples of the aminomethyl group which may optionally be substituted, there may be mentioned aminomethyl or mono or di Cl 4 alkylaminomethyl e.g.methylaminomethyl, ethylaminomethyl, dimethylaminomethyl or diethylaminomethyl . These substituents of Ring A may be present, up to 4 at the maximum, in substitutable positions on the ring, and may be the same or different. It is preferred that the benzene ring is mono substituted, at its 5 or 7 position 5 position is more desirable , by carboxyl, C1,4 alkylsulphonyl or mono or bis p hydroxyethyl amino, especially by carboxyl or methylsulphonyl. The spiro compound I of the present invention is produced by, for instance, decarboxylating a compound of the formula EMI2.1 wherein Ring A is as defined hereinbefore. This reaction is normally carried out in the presence of a catalyst which assists in decarboxylation.Preferred catalysts for this purpose include metal halides e.g. sodium chloride, sodium bromide, sodium iodide, potassium bromide, potassium chloride or potassium iodide and quaternary ammonium salts e.g.tetramethylammonium bromide . The reaction temperature is normally from about 1000C to 2000C and preferably from about 1400C to 1600C, although the reaction may be conducted at higher or lower temperatures if it is desired to control the reaction velocity. Purging the reaction vessel with an inert gas e.g. N2 or argon is sometimes effective in preventing side reactions and improving yields. This reaction is normally carried out in a suitable solvent. While any solvent that will not interfere with the reaction may be employed, it is normally advantageous to employ a solvent having a boiling point higher than the reaction temperature e.g. dimethyl sulphoxide, N,N dimethylformamide or hexamethylphosphoramide . The spiro compound I may also be produced by converting at least one of the substituents of a compound of the formula EMI3.1 wherein Ring B represents a benzene ring which is substituted by at least one of amino, acetyl, halogen, carboxyl, lower alkoxycarbonyl, carbamoyl which may be substituted, ureido which may be substituted, thioureido which may be substituted, lower alkylthio, lower alkylsulphinyl, P hydroxyethyl amino, aminoethyl which may be substituted and cyano. The halogen atom in the above formula III may, for example, be chlorine, bromine or the like, and other substitllents may have the same definitions as those defined in the formula I . As examples of the above reaction, there may be mentioned per se known conversion reactions in compliance with a substituent or substituents to be converted, such as alkylation, oxidation, reduction, haloform reaction, hydrolysis, and esterification.These reactions may be mentioned more specifically as follows. Compounds I having substituents on Ring A which are mono or bis P hydroxyethyl amino , can be produced by alkylation of the compounds III substituted by corresponding amino groups, with ethylene chlorohydrin or ethylene oxide. Compounds I , wherein the substituents on Ring A are carboxyl, are produced by subjecting an acetyl substituted compound III to a haloform reaction with hypohalogenites e.g.sodium hypochlorite or sodium hypobromite , or by subjecting a pyridinium salt obtained from the acetylsubstituted compound III with halogen e.g. iodine and pyridine to hydrolysis, or by subjecting to hydrolysis a cyano substituted compound III . A compound I substituted on Ring A by alkoxycarbonyl, can be produced by subjecting a carboxyl substituted compound to esterification with alkyl halogenide or di alk S lsulphuric acid in the presence of alkali metal hydrogen carbonate e.g. sodium hydrogen carbonate or alkali metal carbonate e.g. sodium carbonate . A compound I , substituted by carbamoyl or substituted carbamoyl, is produced by subjecting a cyano subslituled compound III to hydrolysis with a base e.g. sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide in the presence of dimethylsulphoxide, or to a reaction with hydrogen peroxide under alkaline conditions, or by subjecting a carboxyl substituted compound III or reactive derivative thereof to condensation with amines. This condensation may be carried out by reacting the carboxyl substituted compound III with amines in the presence of a condensing agent e.g. dicyclohexylcarbodiimide and a suitable solvent e.g. methylene chloride, pyridine or tetrahydrofuran . The reactive derivative of the carboxyl substituted compound III is, for example, an acid halide, active ester e.g. alkyl ester or p nitrophenyl ester , mixed acid anhydride obtained from the carboxy compound III or an alkyl chlorocarbonate e.g. methyl chlorocarbonate or isobutyl chlorocarbonate . A compound I , substituted on Ring A by ureido, substituted ureido, thioureido, or substituted thioureido, is produced by subjecting an amino substituted compound III to reaction with cyanic acid, isocyanic acid ester, thiocyanic acid or isothiocyanic acid ester.A cyanosubstituted compound I is produced by subjecting a halo substituted compound III or a diazonium salt derived from amino substituted compound III , to reaction with a metal cyanide e.g. cuprous cyanide or sodium cyanide . The desired compound I obtained in the foregoing manner can be isolated from the reaction mixture and purified by conventional procedures e.g.distillation, recrystallization or column chromatography . According to the types of substiuents onRing A, the compound I may be isolated as pharmaceutically acceptable salts. For example, when an amino group e.g. mono or bis p hydroxyethyl amino or aminoalkylcarbamoyl is present as the substituent, the compound I can be isolated as an acid addition salt e.g. a mineral acid salt such as hydrochloride or hydrobromide, or an organic acid salt such as citrate, tartrate, maleate, fumarate, or oxalate , or when the substituent is a carboxyl group, the compound I can be isolated as an alkali metal salt e.g. sodium salt or potassium salt . These salts and optical isomers are included in the scope of the present invention. The spiro compounds I and pharmaceutically acceptable salts according to this invention are new compounds which exhibit gastric secretion inhibitive, anti inflammatory, analgesic and other actions in mammalian animals e.g. man, rat, mouse, guinea pig, dog and pig , for instance, and are of value as antiulcer, anti inflammatory and analgesic agents and as drugs for the management of peptic ulcer, acute or chronic gastritis, lumbago, arthritis and other diseases. Management of a peptic ulcer in accordance with the present invention includes both the prophylactic administration of the spiro compounds I to prevent the outbreak of an ulcer in an ulcer prone patient, as well as the treatment of an existing peptic ulcer.In such medicinal applications, each compound I can be safely administered orally or parenterally, either as it is or as formulated with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or diluents known per se into suitable dosage forms such as tablets, powders, capsules, injections and suppositories. While the recommended dosage depends on the subject, condition, route of administration, etc., the normal oral dosage for the treatment of peptic ulcer or acute or chronic gastritis is about 1 mg. to 20 mg. as compound I per kg body weight per dose, to be given once to 3 times daily. The starting compound II which is employed in the practice of this invention can be prepared by the following synthesis route or any process analogous thereto. EMI7.1 wherein Ring A is as defined hereinbefore. The reaction of Step I is carried out by condensing a salicylic acid derivative with a halogeno Y butyrolactone e.g. a bromo Y butyrolactone in the presence of a base e.g. sodium hydride, sodium carbonate or potassium carbonate . The reaction ofStep II comprises subjecting the product obtained by the reaction of Step I or after hydrolysis of the ester group, followed by lactonization of the product obtained by the reaction of Step I, to a Dieckmann condensation in the presence of an organic base e.g.triethylamine, 1,4 diazabicyclo 2,2,2 octane or 1,8 diazabicyclo 5,4,0 7 undecane . A spiro compound I can be produced in one step by subjecting a product obtained by the reaction ofStep I to a Dieckmann condensation in the presence of the base above mentioned and the catalyst which assists decarboxylation also mentioned hereinbefore. As the starting compounds III , almost all the compounds I may be usable, and other compounds III may be prepared by the procedures mentioned hereinbefore.For example, an acetyl or a halo substituted compound III can be produced by decarboxylation of an acetylor a halo substituted compound which is analogous to the compound II and is prepared by a similar procedure. An amino substituted compound III can be produced by reduction of the corresponding nitrosubstituted compound. A compound of the formula EMI8.1 wherein R1 is hydrogen or lower alkyl and R2 is lower alkyl, or R1 and R2 taken together with the adjacent N atom, form cyclic amino, may be produced by subjecting a compound of the formula EMI8.2 to reductive alkylation or subjecting a compound of the formula EMI9.1 to alkylation. R1 and R2 The lower alkyls R1 and R may, for example, be C14 alkyl e.g. methyl, ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl, n butyl, isobutyl, sec butyl or tert butyl . The cyclic amino formed by R1, R2 together with the adjacent N atom may, for example, be 5 or 6 membered cyclic amino which may contain N or 0 as another hetero atom.Examples of 5 or 6 membered cyclic amino groups include pyrrolidinyl, piperidino, piperazinyl and morpholino, and the piperazinyl may be substituted by C14 alkyl e.g. methyl or ethyl , phenyl Cl 4 alkyl e.g. benzyl or C 2 4 alkanoyl e.g. acetyl or propionyl at its 4position. The reductive alkylation may be carried out by subjecting the compound V to catalytic reduction with a catalyst such as platinum oxide, palladium or Raney nickel in the presence of a carbonyl compound e.g.formalin, acetaldehyde or acetone corresponding to the R1 or R2 group to be introduced. The reaction temperature is normally from 100C to 1000 C. The alkylation of the compound IVI may be carried out with an alkylating agent such as an alkyl halide e.g. methyl iodine, ethyl iodine, ethyl bromide or isopropyl bromide , or by reductive alkylation mentioned above or reductive alkylation with a metal hydride e.g.sodium cyanoborohydride . A compound IV having a cyclic amino group may be produced by allowing the compound VI to react with, for example, X , dihalogenoalkane e.g. 1,4dibromobutane or 1,5 dibromopentane , bis 2 iodoethyl ether, an N alkyl derivative of P,P dihalogenoethyl amine e.g. N methyl ,p dichlorodiethylamine or N ethyl ss,ss diiododiethylamine or an N aralkyl derivative of the same e.g. N benzyl ss,ss diiododiethyl amine . A compound of the formula EMI10.1 may be produced by subjecting a compound of the formula EMI10.2 to reduction. The position substituted by the l hydroxyethyl or acetyl group in the formula VII or VIII is preferably the 5 or 7 position. The reduction is carried out by treating a compound VIII with sodium borohydride in a suitable solvent under mild conditions which do not attack the 3 carbonyl group. The above compounds 1V and pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts thereof, compounds VII and compounds obtained in Reference Examples 32, 33, 45 and 51 mentioned hereinafter have the same utility as that of the present compound I and are relatively less toxic. These compounds may be usable in accordance with the same manner as that of the compound I . The following pharmacological test, and reference and working examples are given to describe this invention in further detail but should by no means be considered to limit the scope of this invention.Pharmacological Test The pharmacological activity of the present compounds was assayed by a gastric juice secretioninhibition test with rats, the results of which are as follows. In accordance with the method described in Gastroenterology 2, 43 1945 , inhibition of gastrojuice secretion was evaluated by means of the pylorusligated rats. Five each of male Sprague Dawley rats each weighing 100 130 g. were used for the control and five test groups. Each animal was deprived of food for 18 hours before the test, except drinking water. The pylorus of each animal was ligated under anesthetizing with ether, then the animals of the test groups were administered with each test compound at the dose of 50 mg. kg. intraduodenally. Three hours after the ligation, the animals were sacrificed. Gastric secretions of the tested animals were collected and centrifuged for 10 minutes 3,500 r.p.m. , and the volume of gastric juice was measured. The result is as shown in the following table. The ICR type mice in groups of five animals were administered orally with these compounds at the dose of 500 mg. kg. to examine acute toxicity. No mouse was found dead during 7 days in any groups. Inhibition of Gastric Juice Secretion in RatsEMI12.1 tb Compound SEP Dose SEP Inhibition SEP of tb SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP i.d. SEP mg. kg. SEP Secretion tb SEP 3 SEP ,od tb SEP 54 tb R SEP tb SEP tr,o tb 5 N Cll2C20R 2 SEP 50 SEP 58 tb 5 NECONECH3 SEP 50 SEP 59 tb 5 NECONH2 SEP 50 SEP 57 tb 7 N C2u5 2 SEP 50 SEP 73 tb 50 SEP 50 SEP 71 tb Reference Example 1 25 g. of bromo r butyrolactone were added dropwise to a mixture of 15.2 g. of methyl salicylate, 12 g. of sodium hydroxide and 150 ml. of N,N dimethylformamide under ice cooling. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 28 hours. The reaction mixture was made acidic by the addition of dilute hydrochloric acid and extracted with ethyl acetate.The extract was washed with water, dried and concentrated under reduced pressure The residue was dissolved in 30 ml.of methanol, then 150 ml. of a 20 aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide was added dropwise and the solution was stirred at 550C for 30 minutes. The reaction mixture was made acidic with 60 ml. of concentrated hydrochloric acid, the resulting precipitate salicyclic acid was filtered off and the filtrate was extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was washed with water, dried and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was dried in vacuo over phosphorus pentoxide for 24 hours, after which it was recrystall ized from ethyl acetate n hexane 2 1 . By the above procedure there was obtained 8.0 g of a 2 carboxy phenyl oxy X butyrolactone as colourless needles melting at 113 1150C. Determined by Hot Plate method in all the examples hereinafter, the same method was applied to determination of melting points .Elemental analysis, for CllEloO5 Calcd. C, 59.46 II, 4.54 Found C, 59.21 H, 4.51 Reference Example 2 Using 18.7 g of methyl 5 chlorosalicylate, the procedure of Reference Example 1 was repeated to obtain 9.3 g of 2 carboxy 4 chlorophenyl oxy butyrol actone as colourless needles melting at 159 160.5 C. Elemental analysis, for CllHgCl05 Calcd. C, 51.48 H, 3.53 C1, 13.82 Found C, 51.22 II, 3.50 C1, 13.70 Reference Example 3 To a solution of 22 g of methyl 3,5 dichlorosalicylate in 200 ml of dimethylformamide and 100 ml of toluene was added 5.8 g of sodium hydride 50 suspension in Bayol 85 . Then, under ice cooling, a solution of 25g of a bromo Y butyrolactone in 30 ml of toluene was added dropwise. The mixture was stireed at room temperature for 36 hours, after which time it was diluted with a small amount of water and distilled under reduced pressure to remove the solvent. 60 ml of a 20 aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide was added to the residue and the mixture was stirred at 50 600C for one hour. The reaction mixture was made acidic with 40 ml of concentrated hydrochloric acid. The aqueous solution was extracted with ethyl acetate, washed with water, dried and distilled under reduced pressure to remove the solvent. The residue was dried over phosphorus pentoxide at 500C for 12 hours, after which it was recrystallized from ethyl acetate. By the above procedure 14 g of a 2 carboxy 4,6 dichlorophen yloxy f butyrolactone were obtained as colourless crystals melting at 117 1200C. Elemental analysis, for C11H8Cl2O5 Calc. C, 45.38 II, 2.77 Found C, 45.43 X, 2.66 Reference Example 4 43 g of a bromo Y butyrolactone were added under cooling with ice to a mixture of 34 g of methyl 5acetylsalicylate, 29 g of anhydrous potassium carbonate and 350 ml of acetone, and the mixture was then refluxed for 15 hours. After cooling, the acetone was distilled off and 10 methanolic sodium hydroxide was added to the residue for hydrolysis. The reaction mixture was made acidic with hydrochloric acid and extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was washed with water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulphate and distilled to remove the solvent. The residue was dissolved in dioxane 300 ml benzene 200 ml and the solution was refluxed in the presence of p toluenesulphonic acid 30 g , with the resulting water being continuously distilled off. The solvent was distilled off and the residue was diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was washed with water, dried and concentrated to remove the solvent. The residue was recrystallized from ethyl acetate. By the above procedure x 2 carbo4 acetylphenylosOr Y butyrolactone was obtained as colourless needles, m.p.155 1580C, Yield 17 g.Elemental analysis, for Cl311120 6 Calcd. C, 59.09 II, 4.58 Found C, 58.98 H, 4.48 Reference Example 5 51 g. of methyl 4 acetylamino 5 chloro 2hydroxybenzoate and 36.8 g. of anhydrous potassium carbonate were suspended in 350 ml. of N,N dimethylformamide. 55 g. of bromo Y butyrolactone were added to the suspension, and the mixture was stirred at 600C for 12 hours. The solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure. The residue was diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was washed with water, dried and concentrated to remove the solvent. The residue was dissolved in chloroform, and subjected to column chromatography on silica gel, using chloroform as the eluent. The product was recrystallized from methanol.By the above procedure a 5acetylamino 4 chloro 2 methoxycarbo phenyl oxy X butyrolactone was obtained as pale yellow prisms, m.p.118 1190C. Yield 32 g.Elemental analysis, for C14R140 6NCl Calcd. C,51.31 H, 4.31 N, 4.27 Found C,51.24 H, 4.26 N, 4.16 Reference Example 6 63 g. of methyl 4 acetylamino 2 hydroxybenzoate were reacted in the same manner as in Reference Example 5. The product was subjected to column chromatography on silica gel and separated into two fractions. The crystals obtained from the first fraction were recrystallized from methanol to give 6 acetylamino 4 , 5 dihydrospiro benzo b furan 2 3H ,3 2 H furan 2 ,3 dione as colourless plates, m.p. 220 2340C.Yield 1.4 g. Elemental analysis, for C13Hll05N 13 11 5 Called. C, 59.77 H, 4.24 N, 5.36 Found C, 59.71 H, 4.21 N, 5.28 From the second fraction a 5 acetylamino 2 methoxyearbonylphenyl oxy t butyrolactone was obtained as a pale yellow oil. Yield 35 g. This oily product can be subjected to the subsequent reaction step without further purification.NME CDC13 alpha 2.10 311, s, NCOCH5 , 2.65 2H, m, CH2 , 3.83 3H, s, COOCH3 , 4.45 2H, m, OCH2 , 4.98 111, t, OCHCO , 7.09 1H, d, aromatic ring H , 7.66 1H, s, aromatic ring H , 7.73 1H, d, aromatic ring H Reference Example 7 3.04 g. of methyl salicylate were reacted with a bromo Y butyrolactone in the same manner as the corresponding step in Reference Example 4. The product was recrystallized from methanol to afford 3.3 g. of a 2 methoxyearbonylphenyl oxy t butyrolactone as colourless needles melting at 62 870C.Elemental analysis, for C12111205 Calcd. C, 61.01 H, 5.12 Found C, 60.98 H, 4.99 Reference Example 8 A mixture of 1.3 g. of a 2 carboxyphenyl oxy t butyrolactone, 15 ml. of acetic anhydride and 3 ml. of triethylamine was stirred in a nitrogen gas stream at 1400C for 3.5 hours, at the end of which time the solvents were distilled off under reduced pressure.Column chromatography was carried out on the residue using 32.5 g. of silica gel and carbon tetrachlorideacetone 10 1 . The fraction corresponding to the contemplated compound was taken, concentrated under reduced pressure and recrystallized from n hexane ethyl acetate 3 1 . By the above procedure 633 mg. of 4 , 5 dihydrospiro benzo b furan2 3H , 3 2 E furan 2t, 3 dione were obtained as colourless needles melting at 111 111.5 C. Elemental analysis, for C11H804 Calcd. C, 64.70 H, 3.95 Found C, 64.74 H, 3.70 Reference Examples 9 11 The following compounds were produced by procedures similar to that described in Reference Example 8.EMI17.1 EMI17.2 tb SEP Elemental SEP analysis tb Refer SEP Compound SEP m.p. SEP Elemental SEP analysis tb ence SEP R SEP C SEP Upper SEP rank Calcd. SEP tb Example SEP Lower SEP rank Found SEP tb No. SEP Molecular SEP Lower SEP rank Found tb SEP formula SEP C SEP H tb SEP 9 SEP 5 1 SEP 2.96 SEP tb SEP 5 C1 SEP SEP 132.5 133 SEP 11 SEP 7 SEP 4 SEP 55.49 SEP 2.79 tb SEP 10 SEP 5 Cl,7 Cl SEP 157 SEP SEP 159 SEP C11H6Cl20l SEP 48.38 SEP 2.21 tb SEP 157 159 SEP C11 SEP SEP 159 SEP 48.47 SEP 2.14 tb SEP 63.41 SEP 4.09 SEP tb SEP 11 SEP 5 COCH3 SEP SEP 132 SEP SEP 134 SEP C13H10O5 SEP 63.57 SEP 4.02 tb Reference Example 12 A mixture of 23 g. of a acetylamino 4 chloro 2 methoxyearbonylphenyl oxy T butyrolactone, 46 ml. of triethylamine and 230 ml. of acetic anhydride was heated at 1200C for 5 hours. The solvents were evaporated off under reduced pressue, then the residue was poured into ice water. The precipitating crystals were collected by filtration, washed with water and dried, followed by recrystallization from ethyl acetate to give 6 diacetyl amino 5 chloro 4 ,5 dihydrospiro benzo b furan 2 3H , 3 2 H furan 2 ,3 dione melting at 181 185 C. Yield 6.8 g.Elemental analysis, for C15Hl206NC Calcd. C, 59.40 E, 4.32 N, 4.62 Found C, 59.49 H, 4.21 N, 4.34 Reference Example 14 1.1 g. of a 2 methoxyearbonylphenyl oxy t butyrolactone was treated as in Reference Example 8 and the product was recrystallized from ethyl acetate nhexane. By the above procedure 4 ,5 dihydrospiro benzoCb furan 2 3H ,3 2 H furan 2 ,3 dione was obtained as colourless needles, m.p. lll 111.50C. Yield 330 mg. Reference Example 15 A mixture of 0.35 ml. of nitric acid d 1.42 and 0.36 ml. of concentrated sulphuric acid was added to a solution of 0.408 g. of 4 ,5 dihydrospiro benzo b furan 2 3H , 3 2 ll furan 2 , 3 dione in 3 ml. of concentrated sulphuric acid, dropwise under ice cooling, and the mixture was stirred for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was poured into ice water and the precipitated crystals were collected by filtration, washed with water, dried and recrystallized from ethyl acetate. By the above procedure colourless needles of 4 ,5 dihydro 5 nitrospiro benzo b furan 2 3H ,3 2 H furan 21 ,3 dione were obtained, m.p. 199 2000C. Elemental analysis, for C11117NO6 Calcd. C, 53.02 11, 2.83 N, 5.62 Found C, 52.89 X, 2.65 N, 5.55 Reference Examples 16 20 The following compounds were produced in a similar manner to the corresponding step in Reference Example 4.EMI18.1 EMI19.1 tb SEP Compound SEP m.p. SEP Elemental SEP analysis tb SEP Upper SEP rank SEP Calcd. tb No. SEP R SEP C SEP Molecular SEP Lower SEP rank SEP Found tb SEP formula tb SEP C SEP 11 SEP tb 16 SEP 4 Ph SEP 112 114 SEP C18H16O5 SEP 69.22 SEP 5.16 tb SEP 69.41 SEP 5.07 tb 17 SEP 4 COPh SEP 98 102 SEP C19H1606 SEP 67.05 SEP 4.75 tb SEP 67.32 SEP 4.77 tb 18 SEP 4 COC2H, SEP 109 111 SEP C15H1606 SEP 61.64 SEP 5.52 tb SEP 25 SEP 61.63 SEP 5.56 tb 55.30 SEP 5.00 SEP tb 19 SEP 4 SCH3 SEP 60 SEP 63 SEP C13111405S SEP SEP 55.09 SEP 4.93 tb 20 SEP 6 COCH SEP H3 SEP oil SEP C SEP 1106 SEP 60.45 SEP 5.07 tb SEP 3 SEP 1414 SEP 60.21 SEP 5.02 tb Ph represents phenyl Reference Example 21 a 2 Methoxyearbonyl 4 methylthiophenyl oxy t butyrolactone 1.128 g. was dissolved in dichloromethane 24 ml. and m chloro perbenzoic acid 1.72 g. was added to the solution in small portions. After stirring for one hour, the mixture was extracted with chloroform.The extract was washed with an aqueous solution of sodium hydrogen carbonate, an aqueous solution of sodium hydrosulphite and water in the order mentioned, and dried. The solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure and the residue was recrystallized from ethyl acetate hexano to give a 2 methoxy carbonyl 4 methylsulphonylphenyl oxy t butyrolactone 1.089 g. as colourless needles melting at 102 1050C. Elemental analysis, for C13Hl407S Calcd. C, 49.68 H, 4.49 Found C, 49.67 H, 4.42 Reference Examples 22 26 The following compounds were obtained by a procedure similar to that of Reference Example 8.EMI20.1 EMI20.2 SEP W SEP . SEP erbar SEP SEP Elemental SEP analysis tb SEP Compound SEP m.p. SEP Molecular SEP Upper SEP rank SEP Calcd. tb SEP formula SEP Lower SEP rank SEP Found tb No. SEP R SEP C SEP C SEP H tb 22 SEP 5 Ph SEP 193 195 SEP C, SEP 7H1204 SEP 72.85 SEP 4.32 tb SEP 1 SEP 72.82 SEP 4.19 tb 27 SEP 5 COPh SEP 12 SEP 5 SEP 7609.95 SEP 6 9 SEP 95 SEP 3 SEP 3.92 tb SEP 69.95 SEP 5.78 tb 24 SEP 5 GOC,Hg SEP 163 165 SEP C14H1205 SEP 64.61 SEP 4.65 tb SEP 64.70 SEP 4.57 tb 26 SEP 5 S02CH3 SEP SEP 220 226 SEP 012111 SEP 10 SEP 6 SEP 51.06 SEP 3.57 tb Ph represents phenyl Reference Example 27 A mixture of 1.75 g. of 4 ,5 dihyrdospiro benzo b furan 2 3H ,3 2 H furan3 2 ,3 dìone, 552 mg. of sodium chloride and 9 ml. of dimethylsulphoxide was stirred in a nitrogen gas stream at l550C for 2 hours.The reaction mixture was poured into ice water about 150 ml. and the precipitate was recovered by filtration, washed with water and recrystallized from ethanol water 3 2 . By the above procedure 1.21 g. of spiro benzo b furan 2 3H , l cyclopropane 3 one was obtained as colourless needles melting at 89 90.50C. Elemental analysis, for CloH802 Calcd. C, 74.99 11, 5.03 Found C, 74.71 H, 4.96 Reference Examples 28 35 The following compounds were produced by a procedure similar to that described in referenceExample 27.EMI21.1 EMI21.2 tb SEP Elemental SEP Analysis tb SEP NO. SEP Compound SEP Melting tb SEP R SEP Point SEP Molecular SEP Upper SEP rank SEP Calc SEP tb SEP C SEP formula SEP Lower SEP rank SEP Foun SEP tb 28 SEP 5 C1120 121 SEP C, SEP c,I I,C102 SEP 61.71 SEP 3.63 tb SEP J SEP 1 SEP 61.68 SEP 7., SEP 50 tb 29 SEP 5 01 SEP 116 118 SEP 0H6C1202 SEP 52.43 SEP 2.64 tb SEP 7 C1 SEP 1 SEP 52.65 SEP 2.61 tb SEP 7 C1 SEP SEP SEP 52.65 SEP 2 SEP 61 tb 30 SEP 5 NO2 SEP 107 110 SEP C10H7N04 SEP 58.54 SEP 3.44 SEP 6.83 SEP tb SEP 58.85 SEP 3.50 SEP 6.68 SEP tb 31 SEP 5 COCH3 SEP 100 103 SEP C12H1003 SEP 71.28 SEP 4.99 tb SEP 71.07 SEP 4.82 tb EMI22.1 tb SEP Elemental SEP Analysis tb No. SEP Compound SEP Melting SEP Molecular SEP Upper SEP rank SEP Calcd. tb SEP Point SEP formula SEP Lower SEP rank SEP Found tb SEP R SEP or SEP SEP C SEP 11 SEP SEP N tb 32 SEP 5 COPh SEP 89 SEP 91 SEP C1 H1203 SEP 77.26 SEP 4.58 tb SEP SEP . SEP SEP 4.33 SEP tb 33 SEP 5 coc5 SEP 75 SEP 77 SEP G1 B1207 SEP 72.21 SEP 5,59 tb SEP 72.16 SEP 5.52 tb 34 SEP Ó NEAc SEP SEP 171 178 SEP C SEP 3 SEP 66.35 SEP 5.10 SEP 6.45 tb SEP 66.go SEP 5.00 SEP 6.2o tb 35 SEP 5 Cl, SEP 185 188 SEP C12H10 3NC1 SEP 57.27 SEP 4.01 SEP 5.57 tb SEP 6 NHAc SEP 03 SEP 57.03 SEP 3.86 SEP 5.46 tb Ac represents acetyl. Reference Example 36 0.94 g. of spiro benzoLb furan 2 3E , l cyclopropane 3 one was dissolved in 30 ml. of acetic anhydride and, at 60 700C, 5.6 g. of copper nitrate were added. The solution was stirred overnight. The reactiom mixture was poured into ice water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was washed with water, dried and distilled to remove the solvent.The residue was fractionated by column chromatography on silica gel into two fractions. 1 The first fraction was recrystallized from ethyl acetate n hexane to yield 5 nitrospiroLbenzoEb3furan 2 3H , 1 cyclopropane3 3 one as colourless prisms melting at 107 1100C.Elemental analysis, for CloH7NO4 Calcd. C, 58.54 H, 3.44 N, 6.83 Found C, 58.85 H, 3.50 N, 6.68 2 The second fraction was recrystallized from ethyl acetate hexane to yield 7 nitrospiroLbenzo b furan 2 311 , l cyclopropane 3 one as colourless needles melting at 131 1340C. Elemental analysis, for C10H7N04 Calcd. C, 58.54 H, 3.44 N, 6.83 Found C, 58.42 H, 3.37 N, 6.65 Reference Example 37 Spiro benzo b furan 2 311 ,1 cyclopropane 3 one 7.0 g. was added in small portions to fuming nitric acid 70 ml. previously cooled to 500C to 600C. After stirring for 20 minutes, the reaction mixture was poured into ice water and the precipitated crystals were collected by filtration, washed with water and recrystallized from ethanol. By the above procedure 5 nitrospiro benzo b furan 2 3H ,l cyclo propane 3 one was obtained as colourless prisms, m.p. 107 1100C. Yield 7.3 g. This product was in good agreement with the crystals obtained in ReferenceExample 36. The mother liquor resulting from the recrystallization was subjected to column chromatography on silica gel for purification, then recrystallized from methanol to afford 5,7 dinitrospiro benzo b furan 2 3H ,l cyclopropane 3 one as pale yellow needles melting at 158 1610C. Elemental analysis for CloH606N2 Calcd. C, 48.01 H, 2.42 N, 11.20 Found C, 48.03 H, 2.33 N, 11.01 Reference Example 38 A solution of 5 nitrospiro benzo b furan 2 311 , l cyclopropane 3 one 7.2 g. in ethanol was stirred in the presence of platinum dioxide and in a hydrogen gas stream. After the hydrogen absorption ceased, the catalyst was filtered off and a small amount of HC1 diethyl ether was added to the residue, followed by recrystallization from ethanol. By the above procedure 5 aminospiro benzo b furan 2 3H ,l cyclopropane 3 one hydrochloride was obtained as light brown needles melting at 139 1420C. Elemental analysis, for CloHl902N EC1 Calcd. C, 56.75 H, 4.76 N, 6.62 Found C, 56.67 H, 4.83 N, 6.67 Reference Example 39 7 Nitrospiro benzo b furan 2 3H ,1 cyclopropane 3 one was reacted in the same manner as in ReferenceExample 38 and the reaction product was recrystallized from ethanol. By the above procedure 7 aminospiro benzo b furan 2 3H ,l cyclopropane 3 one was obtained as pale brown crystals melting at l35.80C. Elemental analysis, for CloHl902N Calcd. C, 68.56 H, 5.18 N, 8.00 Found C, 68.42 H, 5.11 N, 7.74 Reference Example 40 250 mg. of 5,7 dinitrospiro benzoEb furan 2 3H , l cyclopropane3 3 one, 50 mg. of platinum dioxide and 20 ml. of ethanol were stirred in a stream of hydrogen for 1.25 hour under atmospheric pressure. Oxalic acid was added to the reaction mixture, and the catalyst was removed by filtration. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure until its volume became about 3 ml. Ether was added to the concentrate, and the resulting powder was collected by filtration. The powder was dissolved in ethanol. To the ethanolic solution activated charcoal was added for decoloration, followed by addition of ether.The precipitating powder was collected by filtration to obtain 5,7 diaminospiro benzo b furan 2 311 ,l cyclopropane3 3 one.l 2 oxalate monohydrate as a yellowish brown powder.Elemental analysis, for CloHl0o2N2 COOH 2 H20 Calcd. C, 52.17 H, 5.17 N, 11.06 Found C, 52.12 H, 4.69 N, 10.87 The use of hydrochloric acid in place of oxalic acid in the above procedure gives 5,7 diaminospiro benzo bgfuran 2 3H ,l cyclopropane 3 one hydrochloride.monohydrate melting at a temperature not lower than 3000C. Elemental analysis, for CloHl002N2 HCl H20 Calcd. C, 49. OS H, 5.35 N, 11.45 Found C, 48.80 H, 5.13 N, 11.64 Reference Example 41 0.8 g. of potassium hydroxide were added to a solution of 1.09 g. of 6 acetylaminospiro benzo b furan 2 3H ,1 cyclopropane 3 one in 50ml. of methanol, and the mixture was refluxed for 0.5 hour. The solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure. Water was added to the residue and the precipitating crystals were collected by filtration, washed with water and dried. The crystals were recrystallized from methanol to obtain 6 aminospiro benzo b furan 2 3H ,l cyelo propane 3 one as colourless prisms melting at 188 189 C. Elemental analysis, for CloH902N Calcd. C, 68.56 H, 5.18 N, 8.00 Found C, 68.54 H, 5.05 N, 7.88 Reference Example 42 6 Acetylamino 5 chlorospiro benzo b furan 2 3H , l cyclopropane 3 one 1.8 g. was reacted in the same manner as in Example 41 and the reaction product was recrystallized from methanol. By the above procedure 6 amino 5 chlorospiro benzo b furan 2 311 , l cyclopropane 3 one was obtained as yellow plates, m.p. 2Ol0C. Yield 1.5 g.Elemental analysis, for C10H802NCl Calcd. C, 57.29 H, 3.85 N, 6.68 Found C, 57.24 H, 3.74 N, 6.67 Reference Example 43 5 Aminospiro benzo b furan 2 3H ,l cyclopropane 3 one 0.747 g. and calcium carbonate 0.47 g. were suspended in a mixture of carbon tetrachloride 20 ml and methylene chloride 5 ml. . The suspension was cooled to 170C, then bromine 0.22 ml. was added thereto dropwise, followed by stirring for 45 minutes.The reaction mixture was poured into ice water, then extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was washed with water and dried. The solvent was evaporated off, and the residue was recrystallized from ethanolwater. By the above procedure 5 amino 4 bromospiro benzoCbgfuran 2 3E ,l cyclopropane 3 one was obtained as yellow needles melting at 167 170 C. Yield 0.6 g.Elemental analysis, for C1OH802NBr Calcd. C, 47.27 H, 3.19 N, 5.51 Found C, 47.58 H, 3.12 N, 5.64 Reference Example 44 A solution of 5 aminospiro benzoEb furan 2 3H , l cyclopropane 3 one 0.181 g. and pyridine 0.083 mg. in tetrahydrofuran 5 ml. was cooled to l70C. To the solution was added dropwise iodobenzenedichloride 0.282 g. , which had been prepared by a conventional method, dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 1.5 ml. over 50 minutes, followed by stirring for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was poured into ice water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was washed with water, dried and the solvent was evaporated off. The residue was subjected to column chromatography, using chloroform as the eluent. The first fraction was concentrated under reduced pressure to remove the solvent. By the above procedure, 5 amino 4 chlorospiro benzo b furan 2 3H ,l cyclopropane 3 one was obtained as yellow crystals. Yield 0.038 g. Mass spectrum C12H1202NC1, molecular ion peak 209 Reference Example 45 To a solution of 5 aminospiro benzo b furan 2 3H ,l cyclopropane 3 one 2 g and acetone 5 ml in acetonitrile 100 ml , sodium cyanoborohydride 3 g was added in portions. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 38 hours, acetic acid being added occasionally to maintain the pH near neutrality.The solvent was evaporated off in vacuo The resulting residue was dissolved in ether. The ether solution was washed with an aqueous solution of potassium hydroxide and then water and dried. The ether was evaporated off and the resulting oil was chromatographed on silica gel, eluting with dichloromethane. The product was recrystallized from ethyl ether hexane to give 5 isopropylamino benzo b furan 2 3H ,l cyclo propane 3 one 1.3 g. as yellow prisms melting at 69 71 C. Elemental analysis, for C13Hl502N Calcd. C, 71.86 H, 6.96 N, 6.45 Found C, 71.94 H, 7.03 N, 6.51 Reference Example 46 A mixture of 7 nitrospiro benzo b furan 2 3H , l cyclopropane 3 one 10 g. , formalin 37 formaldehyde, 10 ml. , trimethylamine hydrochloride 2 g. andRaney nickel 10 g. in ethanol 500 ml. was subjected to reduction at 49 560C for 3 hours under a hydrogen pressure of 50 kg cm2. After removing the catalyst by filtration, the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The concentrate was dissolved in dichloromethane and the solution was washed with a aqueous solution of sodium hydrogen carbonate, then with water, followed by drying. The solvent was evaporated off and the residue was subjected to column chromatography on silica gel.The first fraction eluted with hexane ethyl acetate 9 1 was recrystallized from ethanol to give 7 dimethylaminospiro benzo blfuran 2 311 , l cyclopropane 3 one 5.87 g. as yellow needles melting at 68.30C.Elemental analysis, for C12111302N Calcd. C, 70.92 H, 6.45 N. 6.89 Found C 70.89 H, 6.41 N, 6.71 The second fraction was recrystallized from ethanol to give 7 methylaminospiro benzo b furan 2 311 , l cyclopropane 3 one 2.08 g. as yellow needles melting at 98.20C.Elemental analysis, for C11H1102N Calcd. C, 69.83 H, 5.86 N, 7.40 Found C, 70.10 B, 5.86 N, 7.36 Reference Example 47 A mixture of 7 aminospiro benzo b furan 2 3H l cyclopropane 3 one 3.5 g. , 1,4 dibromobutane 4.3 g. , sodium hydrogen carbonate 1.68 g. and N,N dimethylformamide 50 ml. was heated at 100 C for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was washed with water, dried and concentrated to remove the solvent. The residue was chromotographed on silica gel.The first fraction eluted with hexaneethyl acetate was distilled under reduced pressure to recover yellow crystals and the product was recrystallized from ethanol to give 7 1 pyrrolidinyl spiro benzo b furan 2 3H ,l cyclopropane 3 one 0.87 g. as yellow needles melting at 101,50C.Elemental analysis, for C141115O2N Calcd. C, 73.34 H, 6.59 N, 6.11 Found C, 73.10 H, 6.52 N, 6.02 Reference Example 48 A mixture of 7 aminospiro benzo b furan 2 311 ,l cyclopropane 3 one 1.75 g. , ethylbromide 5.45 g and sodium hydrogen carbonate 1.68 g. in N,N dimethylformamide 50 ml. was heated at 1000C for 4 hours.The reaction mixture was diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was washed with water and dried, then the solvent was evaporated off. The residue was subjected to column chromatography on silica gel. The first fraction eluted with hexaneethyl acetate 97 3 was recrystallized from ethanol to give 7 diethylaminospiro benzo b furan 2 3H ,l cyclopropane 3 one 0.801 g. as yellow needles melting at 39.30C. Elemental analysis, for C14Hl702N Calcd. C, 72.70, H, 7.41 N, 6.06 Found C, 72.83 H, 7.42 N, 6.11 The second fraction eluted with hexane ethyl acetate 95 5 was recrystallized from ethanol to give 7 ethylaminospiro benzo b furan 2 3H ,l1 cyclo propane 3 one 0.204 g. as pale yellow needles melting at 80.60C.Elemental analysis, for C12Hl302N Calcd. C, 70.92 H, 6.45 N, 6.89 Found C, 70.71 H, 6.49 N, 6.81 Reference Example 49 NaBH4 0.9 g was added in portions to a wellstirred solution of 5 acetylspiro benzo b furan 2 3E l cyclopropane 3 one 1 g in tetrahydrofuran 25 ml and isopropanol 3 ml , with cooling at 500C.The reaction mixture was then stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes, followed by dilution with ice water, which was neutralized with aqueous ammonium chloride. The aqueous solution was extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was washed with water and dried. The residue obtained by removal of the solvent was chromatographed on silica gel, eluting with CHCl3. The product was distilled under reduced pressure to give 5 l hydroxyethyl spiro benzo b furan 2 311 ,l cyclopropane 3 one as a colourless oil. b.p. 0.05 mmHg 1100C bath temperature . IRs film cm l 3350 0H , 1710 C0 . NMR CDC13 6 1.45 H, d,J 6Hz, CH3 , 1.62 4H, q, J 3Hz, CH2 , 3.33 1H, b,OH , 4.83 1E, q, J 6Hz, CH , 6.97 111, d, J gHz, aromat.H , 7.55 2H, m, aromat.H .Elemental analysis, for C12Hl203 Calcd. C, 70.57 H, 5.92 Found C, 70.47 H, 6.05 Reference Example 50 A mixture of alpha 4 acetyl 2 methoxBrcarbonyl phenyl oxy t butyrolactone 2.8 g , 1,8 diazabicyclo 5,4,0 7 undecene 0.056 g , sodium chloride 0.6 g and N,N dimethylformamide 28 ml was heated at 150 1550C for 4 hours. The solvent was removed in vacuo and the resulting residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate. The ethyl acetate solution was washed with water and dried. The residue obtained by removal of the solvent in vacuo was chromatographed on silica gel. The fraction eluted with dichloromethane was crystallized from ethanol to give 5 aeetylspiro benzo b furan 2 3H , 1 cyclopropane 3 one 1.15 g as colourless crystals. IR KBr 1 CDC13 d cm KmBxr cm1 1700, 1680 CO, tR 1.70 4H, q, J 7Hz, CH2 , 2.62 38, s, COUCH3 , 7.20 d, d, J 911z, aromat.H , 8.27, 8.30 1H, dd, J 9Hz, aromat.H , 8.29 1H, d, J 2Hz, aromat.H .This product was identical with the product ofReference Example 31 in melting point and spectral data. Reference Example 51 Employing a 6 Acetyl 2 methoxycarbonylphenyl ox Y butyrolactone 3.5 g , 1,8 diazabicyclo 5,4,0 7 undecene 0.14 g , sodium chloride 1.1 g and N ,N dimethylformamide 66.5 ml , a reaction was conducted in a similar manner to that in ReferenceExample 50. The product was recrystallized from CHC13 hexane to give 7 acetylspiro benzo b furan 2 3H , l cyclopropane 3 one 0.22 g as colourless needles melting at 114 1150C. Elemental analysis, for C12H10O3 Calcd. C, 71.28 H, 4.99 Found C, 71.39 H, 4.96 EXAMPLE 1 5 Aminospiro benzo b furan 2 3H , 1 cyclo propane 3 one 10 g. , ethylene oxide 5 g. and methanol 150 ml. were allowed to react in a sealed tube at 700C for 16 hours, and after cooling the solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure.The residue was recrystallized from ethyl acetatehexane to give 5 bis p hydroxyethyl aminospiro benzo b furan 2 3H , l cyclopropane 3 one 12.9 g. as yellow needles melting at 96 970C.Elemental analysis, for C14111704N Calcd. C, 63.86 H, 6.51 N, 5.32 Found C, 63.75 H, 6.54 N, 5.23 The crystals obtained from the mother liquor of the above recrystallization were subjected to columnchromatography on silica gel, and the fraction eluted with 2 ethanol methylene chloride was recrystallized from ethyl acetate hexane to give 5 p hydroxyethyl aminospiro benzo b furan 2 311 , l cyclopropane 3 one 1.6 g. as yellow needles melting at 74 750C.Elemental analysis, for C12H130 3N Calcd. C, 65.74 , 5.98, N, 6.39 Found C, 65.71 H, 6.02 N, 6.23 EXAMPLE 2 7 Aminospiro benzo bgfuran 2 3H , l cyclopropane 3 one 350 mg. was reacted in the same manner as in Example 1, and the product was subjected to columnchromatography on sflica gel. The first fraction eluted with chloroform was recrystallized from ethyl acetate hexane to give 7 p hydroxyethyl aminospiro benzo b furan 2 3H , l cyclopropane 3 one as yellow needles melting at 74 770C. Elemental analysis, for C12Hl303N Calcd. C, 65.74 H, 5.98 N, 6.39 Found C, 65.96 H, 5.98 N, 6.19 The second fraction eluted with 2 ethanolchloroform was recrystallized from ethyl acetatehexane to give 7 bis 0 hydroxyethyl aminospiro benzo b furan 2 3H , l cyclopropane 3 one as yellow needles melting at 74 760C.Elemental analysis, for C 141117 04N Calcd. C, 63.86 H, 6.51 N, 5.32 Found C, 63.67 E,6.51 N, 5.35 EXAMPLE 3 2 ml. of an aqueous solution of sodium cyanate 130 mg. were added dropwise to a solution of 5 aminospiro benzo b furan 2 3H , l cyclopropane 3one 1.75 g. in methanol 10 ml. and acetic acid 5 ml. , and the mixture was stirred for 2 hours at room temperature. Ice water was added to the reaction mixture, and the precipitated crystals were collected by filtration and recrystallized from ethanol to give colourless needles of 5 ureidospiro benzo b furan 2 3H , ll cyclopropane 3 one 0.74 g. .m.p. 250 2520C.Elemental anlysis, for CllEl003N2 Calcd. C, 60.54 11, 4.62 N, 12.84 Found C, 60.42 H, 4.42 N, 12.94 EXAMPLE 4 5 Aminospiro benzo b furan 2 3H , l cyclopropane 3 one 1.75 g. and methyl isocyanate 1 ml. were stirred in tetrahydrofuran for 2 hours at room temperature. The solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure, and the residue was recrystallized from ethanol to give yellow prisms of 5 methylureido spiro benzo b furan 2 3H , l cyclopropane 3 one 1.06 g. .m.p. 196 2040C.Elemental analysis, for C12H12 3N2 Calcd. C, 62.06 H, 5.21 N, 12.06 Found C, 61.87 H, 5.11 N, 11.67 EXAMPLE 5 5 Aminospiro benzotb furan 2 3H , l cyclopropane 3 one 1.75 g. and methyl isothiocyanate 1.1 g. were stirred in acetonitrile 60 ml. at room temperature for 15 hours, and then the mixture was refluxed under heating for 3 hours. The solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure, and the residue was recrystallized from methanol to give yellow prisms of 5 methylthioureidospiro benzo b furan 2 311 , l cyclopropane 3 one 1.62 g. m.p. 191 1940C. Elemental analysis, for C12H120 2N2S Calcd. C, 58.04 H, 4.87 N, 11.28 Found C, 58.07 H, 4.87 N, 11.00 EXAMPLE 6 5 Aminospiro benzo b furan 2 3H , l cyclopropane 3 one 1.75 g. was dissolved in conc. HC1 2.5 ml. and ice water 20 ml. and 2 ml of an aqueous solution of sodium nitrite 0.7 g. were added dropwise to the resulting solution under ice cooling. After stirring for one hour and adding toluene 5 ml. the solution was neutralized with sodium hydrogen carbonate at 90 C. To 18 ml of another aqueous solution of cuprous cyanide prepared from cuprous chloride 2.4 g. and potassium cyanide 4.4 g. , ethyl acetate 20 ml. , was added, and, to the mixture, the above neutralized solution of diazonium salt was added under ice cooling and with stirring.The mixture was stirred for half an hour at room temperature and further stirred for half an hour at 700 C. The insolubles were removed by filtration, and the filtrate was extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was washed with an aqueous solution of sodium carbonate, diluted hydrochloric acid and water in the order mentioned, and dried. The solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure, and the obtained residue was recrystallized from methanol to give colourless needles of 5 cyanospiro benzo b furan 2 3H , l cyclopropane 3 one 1.4 g. .m.p. 148 149 C. Elemental analysis, for C11117 0 2N Calcd. C, 71.35 H, 3.81 N, 7.56 Found C, 71.13 H, 3.70 N, 7.39 EXAMPLE 7 5 Acetylspiro benzo b furan 2 3H , l cyclopropane 3 one 13.5 g. was added to 300 ml. of an aqueous solution of sodium hypochlorite. To the mixture was further added a small amount of a surfaceactive agent polyoxyethylene octyl phenyl ether , and the mixture was stirred at 600C for 3 hours. After cooling, the reaction mixture was diluted with water, and to the mixture a 40 aqueous solution of sodium hydrogen sulphite was added. The reaction mixture was made acidic with hydrochloric acid, and the resulting crystals were collected by filtration. After washing with water and drying, the crystals were recrystallized from ethanol to give colourless needles of 5 carboxyspiro benzo b furan 2 3H , l cyclopropane 3 one 12.68 g. . m.p. 2l5 2280C. Elemental anlysis, for CllH804 Calcd. C, 64.70 H, 3.95 Found C, 64.75 H, 3.84 EXAMPLE 8 5 Carboxyspiro benzo b furan 2 3H , l cyclopropane 3 one 2 g. and sodium hydrogen carbonate 1.25 g. were suspended in acetone 50 ml. andN,N dimethylformamide 5 ml. and, with stirring, dimethyl sulphate 2ml. was added dropwise to the mixture. The reaction mixture was refluxed under heating for 24 hours, and, after cooling, the solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure. The residue was diluted with water and the solution was extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was washed with an aqueous solution of sodium hydrogen carbonate and dried.After removing the solvent by evaporation under reduced pressure, the residue was recrystallized from methanol to give colourless needles of 5 methoxyearbonylspiro benzo b furan 2 3H , l cyclopropane 3 one 1.25 g. . m.p. 89 910C. Elemental analysis, for C12111004 Calcd. C, 66.05 H, 4.62 Found C, 66.19 H, 4.62 EXAMPLE 9 To a solution of 5 carboxyspiro benzo b furan2 3H , 1 cyclopropane 3 one 1.02 g. in 30 ml. of tetrahydrofuran triethylamine 0.5 g. was added and, with stirring at 18 C, isobutyl chlorocarbonate 0.75 g. was added dropwise to the solution. After stirring for 30 minutes, 2 diethylamino ethylamine 0.58 g. was added and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours. The solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure, and the residue was dissolved in ethanol.Oxalic acid was added to the solution to form the oxalate, and, after cooling, the resulting crystals were collected by filtration to give colourless needles of 5 2 diethylamino ethyl carbamoylspiro benzo b furan 2 3H 1 cyclopropane 3 one oxalate 1.08 g. . m.p. 174 1790C. Elemental analysis, for C1711 220 3N2C21I204 Calcd. C, 58.15 H, 6.17 N, 7.14 Found C, 57.92 H, 6.27 N, 7.15 EXAMPLE 10 5 Carboxyspiro benzo b furan 2 3H ,l cyclo propane 3 one 2.04 g. triethylamine 1.4 ml. , isobutyl chlorocarbonate 1.5 g. and N ethyl 2aminomethylpyrrolidine 1.4 g. were allowed to react in the same manner as in Example 9. The product was converted to an oxalate by a conventional procedure and recrystallization from ethanol gave colourless prisms of 5 l ethyl 2 pyrrolidinyl methylcarbamoyl spiro benzo b furan 2 3H , l cyclopropane 3 one 1.567 g. .m.p. 161 1660C. Elemental analysis, for C18H2203N2 C2H204 Calcd. C, 59.40 11, 5.98 N, 6.93 Found C, 59.13 H, 6.02 N, 6.75 EXAMPLE 11 13 The following compounds were obtained by a procedure similar to that of Reference Example 27.EMI36.1 EMI36.2 tb SEP Elemental SEP analysis tb SEP Compound SEP m.p. tb No. SEP R SEP 0C SEP Molecular SEP Upper SEP rank SEP Calcd. tb SEP formula SEP Lower SEP rank SEP Found tb SEP H SEP tb 11 SEP 5 Ph SEP 116 121 SEP C16H1202 SEP 81.34 SEP 5.12 tb SEP 81.65 SEP 5.00 tb EMI37.1 tb SEP Elemental SEP analysis tb SEP Compound SEP m.p. SEP Upper SEP rank SEP Calm. SEP tb No. SEP R SEP C SEP Molecular SEP Lower SEP rank SEP Found tb SEP formula SEP C SEP H tb C tb SEP 13 SEP 5 SO SEP CH SEP 157 159 SEP C111110O4S SEP 55.45 SEP 4.23 tb Ph represents phenyl EXAMPLE 14 To a solution of 5 methylthiospiro benzo b furan 2 3H , l cyclopropane 3 one 103.1 mg. in dichloromethane 2.1 ml. , m chloroperbenzoic acid 215.7 mg. was added in small portions with stirring.After stirring for one hour, the reaction mixture was diluted with water and extracted with chloroform. The extract was washed with an aqueous solution of sodium hydrogen carbonate, an aqueous solution of sodium hydrosulphite and water in that order, and after drying the solvent was removed by evaporation under reduced pressure. The residue was recrystallized from ethanol water to give colourless needles of 5 methyl sulphonylspiro benzo b furan 2 7H , 1 cyclopropane 3 one 85 mg. . This product was identical with the compound of Example 13 in melting point and spectral data. EXAMPLE 15 5 Methylthiospiro benzo b furan 2 3H , 1 cyclopropane 3 one 600 mg. and m chloroperbenzoic acid 627 mg. were allowed to react in the same manner as in Example 14. The product was recrystallized from ethyl acetate hexane to give colourless prisms of 5 methylsulphinylspiro benzo b furan 2 3H , 1 cyclopropane 3 one 493 mg. . m.p. 87 900C.Elemental analysis, for C11H10 3 Calcd. C, 59.44 H, 4.54 Found C, 59.31 E, 4.57 EXAMPLE 16 A solution of 5 cyanospiro benzo b furan 2 3H , l cyclopropane 3 one 0.2 g. in 10 ml. of ethanol and 10 ml of a 2N aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide was subjected to catalytic reduction in the presence of Raney nickel under a hydrogen stream and at an ordinary temperature and pressure. After finishing the absorption of hydrogen, the catalyst was removed by filtration, and the filtrate was diluted with water and extracted with chloroform. The extract was washed with water and, after drying, the solvent was removed by evaporation under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in methanol and to the solution oxalic acid was added to form the oxalate. Recrystallization from methanol ethyl acetate gave pale brown needles of 5 aminomethylspiro benzo b furan 2 3H , 1 cyclopropane 3 one oxalate. m.p. 192 1950C. Elemental analysis, for C11H11 02NC2H204 Calcd. C, 55.91 E, 4.69 N, 5.02 Found C, 55.74 H, 4.60 N, 4.93 EXAMPLE 17 5.5 ml. of a 7 aqueous solution of hydrogen peroxide and 3.7 ml. of ethanol were added dropwise to a solution of 5 cyanospiro benzoLb furan 2 3H , 1 cyclopropane 3 one 185 mg. in ethanol 10 ml. .Then, a 2N aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide was added to the mixture to adjust a pH of 10 and the solution was stirred at 600C for 2 hours. After cooling, the reaction mixture was neutralized with dilute hydrochloric acid and diluted with ice water. The precipitating crystals were collected by filtration, washed with water and recrystallized from ethanol to give colourless needles of 5 carbamoylspiro benzo b furan 2 3H , l cyclopropane 3 one 106 mg. .m.p. 243 2440C.Elemental analysis, for C11H9 0 3N Calcd. C, 65.02 H, 4.46 N, 6.89 Found C, 65.19 H, 4.39 N, 6.78 EXAMPLE 18 7 Aceytlspiro benzo b furan 2 3H , l cyclopropane 3 one 86 mg. was allowed to react in the same manner as in Example 7. The product was recrystallized from ethanol to give colourless needles of 7 carboxyspiro benzo b furan 2 3H , l cyclopropane 3 one. m.p. 259 2620C decomp . Sublimes at 1830C. IRv KmBax cm1 1730 COOH , 1680 CO . NMR CD30D 1.67 211, t, J 3Hz, CH2 , 1.93 2H, t, J 3Hz, CH2 , 7.37 1H, t, J 8Hz, 5 aromat.H , 8.02 1H, dd, J BHz, 8Hz, 4 or 6 aromat.H , 8.40 1H, dd, J 2Hz, 8Hz, 4 or 6 aromat.H . Calcd. C, 64.70 H, 3.95 Found C, 64.53 H, 4.00 EXAMPLE 19 Diethyl sulphate 5 ml was added dropwise to a stirred mixture of 5 carboxyspiro benzo b furan 2 3H , l cyclopropane 3 one 5.1 g and potassium carbonate 4.32 g in N,N dimethylformamide 25 ml . The reaction mixture was heated at 600C for 0.5 hours. After removal of the solvent in vacuo, the residue was poured into ice water. The crystals separated were collected by filtration, washed with water and recrystallized from ethanol to give 5 ethoxycarbonylspiro benzo b furan 2 3H , l cyclopropane 3 one 5.3 g as colourless needles melting at 97 980C.Elemental analysis, for C13Hl204 Calcd. C, 67.23 H, 5.21 Found C, 67.40 H, 5.24Examples of preparations ready for administration When the compound of this invention is intended for use as an antiulcer agent, types of the preparation can be exemplified as follows.1. Tablets 1 5 Carboxyspiro benzo b furan 2 3H ,1 cyclopropane 3 one 50 g. 2 Lactose 50 g. 3 Corn starch 29 g. 4 Magnesium stearate 1 g. 1000 tablets 130 g. 1 , 2 and 17 g. of the corn starch were granulated together with a paste prepared from 7 g. of the corn starch. To these granules 5 g. of the cornstarch and 4 were added, and the mixture was compressed by a tabletting machine to prepare 1000 tablets of 7 mm. diameter, each containing 50 mg. of i . 2. Capsules 1 5 Bis ss hydroxyethyl aminospiro benzo b furan 2 7H ,1 cyclopropane 3 one 50 g. 2 Lactose 100 g. 3 Cellulose fine powder 45 g. 4 Magnesium stearate 5 g. 1000 capsules 200 g. All the materials were mixed and filled into 1000 capsules gelatin capsule No. 3 defined in JapanesePharmacopoeia 8th edition to prepare capsules each containing 50 mg. of 1 .