# Pharmaceutical formulation of nicardipine and 1,2 dioxy omega trialkylammonium compounds.

## Abstract
This invention relates to a pharmaceutical formulation comprising nicardipine hydrochloride and N omega , omega 1 dialkoxy and N omega , omega 1 dialkenoxy alk 1 yl N,N,N trisubstituted ammonium surfactants.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. 9 pharmeceutical formulation comprising 0.05 to 10 nicardipine hydrochloride by weight, 1 to 20 surfactant component by weight of which a compound of formula I comprises 1 to 100 of this surfactant component wherein formula I is represented by the formulaEMI33.1 or an optical isomer thereof wherein R1 and R2 are the same or different and are an alkyl or alkenyl group of 6 to 22 carbons R3, R4 and R5 are the same or different and are hydrogen, alkyl of 1 to 8 carbon atoms, aryl, aralkyl of 7 to 11 carbons or when two or three of R3, R4, and R5 are taken together form quinuclidino, pyrrolidino, piperidino, or morpholino n is 1 to 8 and X is a pharmaceutically acceptable anion and an aqueous solution in a quantity sufficient to make 100 by volume. 2. A formulation according to claim 1 having a compound of formula I wherein R1 and R2 are the same and are alkyl of 10 to 20 carbon atoms R3, R4, and R5 are hydrogen, methyl or ethyl n is 1 to 4 and X is a halide ion. 3. A formulation according to claim 2 wherein nicardipine hydrochloride comprises 1 to 5 and formula I comprises 50 or more of the surfactant component. 4. A formulation according to claim 3 having a compound of formula I which is N 2,3 di hexadecyloxy propyl N,N,N trimethylammonium chloride or an optical isomer thereof, or N , 3 di octadecyloxy prop l yl N,N,N trimethyl ammonium chloride or an optical isomer thereof. 5. A formulation according to claim 4 comprised of 5 nicardipine hydrochloride by weight, 20 by weight of a compound of formula I according to claim 4 and an aqueous solution in a quantity sufficient to make 100 by volume. 6. A formulation according to claim 1 having a compound of formula I wherein R1 and R2 are the same and are alkenyl of 10 to 20 carbon atoms R3, R4, and R5 are hydrogen, methyl or ethyl n is 1 to 4 and X is a halide ion. 7. A formulation according to claim 6 wherein nicardipine hydrochloride comprises 1 to 5 and a compound of formula I comprises 50 or more of the surfactant component. 8. A formulation according to claim 7 having a compound of formula I which is N 2,3 di 9 Z octadecenyloxy prop l yl N,N,N trimethylammonium chloride or an optical isomer thereof. 9. A formulation according to claim 8 comprises of 5 nicardipine hydrochloride by weight, 20 of a compound of formula I according to claim 8 by weight and an aqueous solution in a quantity sufficient to make 100 by volume. 10. A formulation accordinq to claim 1 having a compound of formula I wherein R1 is alkyl or alkenyl of 14 to 22 carbon atoms and R2 is a different alkyl or alkenyl group of 6 to 14 carbon atoms R3, R4, and R5 are hydrogen, methyl or ethyl n is 1 to 4 and X is a halide ion. CLAIMS 1. Use of a compound of formula IEMI35.1 or an optical isomer thereof wherein R1 and R2 are the same or different and are an alkyl or alkenyl group of 6 to 22 carbons R3, R4 and R5 are the same or different and are hydrogen, alkyl of 1 to 8 carbon atoms, aryl, aralkyl of 7 to 11 carbons or when two or three of R3, R4, and R5 are taken together form quinuclidino, pyrrolidino, piperidino, or morpholino n is 1 to 8 and X is a pharmaceutically acceptable anion in the manufacture of a pharmaceutical formulation comprising 0.05 to 10 nicardipine hydrochloride by weight, 1 to 20 surfactant component by weight of which a compound of formula I comprises 1 to 100 of this surfactant component, and an aqueous solution in a quantity sufficient to make 100 by volume. 2. A process according to claim 1 wherein in the compound of formula I R1 and R2 are the same and are alkyl of 10 to 20 carbon atoms R3, R4, and R5 are hydrogen, methyl or ethyl n is 1 to 4 and X is a halide ion. 3. A process according to claim 2 wherein nicardipine hydrochloride comprises 1 to 5 and formula I comprises 50 or more of the surfactant component. 4. A process accordinq to claim 3 wherein the compound of formula I is N 2,3 di hexadecvloxy o.ropyl N,N,N trimethylammonium chloride or an optical isomer thereof, or N 2,3 di octadecyloxy prop l yl N,N,N trimethyl ammonium chloride or an optical isomer thereof. 5. A process accordinq to claim 4 wherein the formulation comprises 5 nicardipine hydrochloride by weight, 20 by weight of a compound of formula I according to claim 4 and an aqueous solution in a quantity sufficient to make 100 by volume. 6. A process according to claim 1 wherein in the compound of formula I R1 and R2 are the same and are alkenyl of 10 to 20 carbon atoms R3, R4, and R5 are hydrogen, methyl or ethyl n is 1 to 4 and X is a halide ion. 7. A process according to claim 6 wherein nicardipine hydrochloride comprises 1 to 5 and a compound of formula I comprises 50 or more of the surfactant component. 8. A process according to claim 7 wherein the compound of formula I is N 2,3 di 9 Z octadecenyloxy prop l yl N,N,N trimethylammonium chloride or an optical isomer thereof. 9. A process according to claim 8 wherein the formulation comprises 5 nicardipine hydrochloride by weight, 20 of a compound of formula I according to claim 8 by weight and an aqueous solution in a quantity sufficient to make 100 by volume. 10. A process according to claim 1 wherein in the compound of formula I R1 is alkyl or alkenyl of 14 to 22 carbon atoms and R2 is a different alkyl or alkenyl group of 6 to 14 carbon atoms R3, R4, and R5 are hydrogen, methyl or ethyl n is 1 to 4 and X is a halide ion.

## Description
PHARMACEUTICAL FORMULATION OF NICARDIPINE.AND 1, 2 DIOXY OMEGA TRIALKYLAMMONIUM COMPOUNDS This invention relates to a pharmaceutical formulation of nicardipine and glycerol based cationic surfactants. The invention comprises a pharmaceutical formulation comprising nicardipine hydrochloride and a compound of the formula IEMI1.1 or an optical isomer thereof wherein R1 and R2 are the same or different and are alkyl or alkenyl of 6 to 22 carbons R3, R4 and R5 may be the same or different and are hydrogen, alkyl of 1 to 8 carbons, aryl, aralkyl of 7 to 11 carbons or when two or three of R3, R4, and R5 are taken together to form quinuclidino, piperidino, pyrrolidino, or morpholino n is 1 to 8 andX is a pharmaceutically acceptable anion. The formulations of this invention may comprise liposomes, gels, creams, lotions, emulsions, suspensions, syrups, aerosols and the like. Accordingly, these formulations may employ one or more additional pharmaceutically acceptable excipients in order to optimize the workability, formulation of, stability, etc.of these formulations. If the formulation is a liposome, additional excipients such as water or a buffer will be employed in order to form the liposomes. Liposome formulations may also employ other surfactants, fatty acids and the like which are known in the liposome formulation art. The preparation of topical creams, gels, ointments and the like will require the use of excipients which are routinely used in those arts for proper formulation of such formulations. Orally acceptable formulations will necessarily employ those additional excipients which have been developed in that art. A preferred compositional form for this invention is liposomes. Liposomes are microscopic vesicles or blisters consisting of concentric lipid bilayers, generally spherically shaped. Structurally, liposomes range in size and shape from long tubes to spheres, with dimensions of a few hundred Angströms to fractions of a millimeter. Regardless of the overall shape, the bilayers are generally organized as closed concentric lamellae, with an aqueous layer separating each lamella from its neighbor. Vesicle size normally ranges between 20 50,000 nm in diameter. The liquid film between lamellae is usually 3 10 nm. In the broadest terms, liposomes are prepared from one or more surfactants. Though it has been thought that any type of surfactant could be used in liposomes, e.g.cationic, neutral or anionic surfactants, experience with positively charged liposomes has indicated several problems which have not been fully addressed to date.The tertiary amines which have been employed in liposomes to date have either not been sufficiently chemically stable to allow for the storage of such formulations shelf life or the structure of the amines has been such that they can be leached out of the liposome structure.Also one of the tertiary amines, stearoylamine, has toxicity concerns which limit its use. Compounds of formula I do not suffer from these infirmities. The ether linkage is highly stable in liposomes. The compounds of formula I are not leached out of nor do they otherwise migrate out of the liposome matrix as do stearoylamines and other amines of that type. Toxicity is not a concern with the compounds formula I. Positively charged formulations, particularly liposomes, are pharmaceutically advantageous. Mammalian cells are negatively charged so the presentation of positively charged materials results in better attachment to and absorption by membranes. Typically, the liposome formulations of this invention will be comprised of 0.05 to 10 nicardipine hydrochloride by weight, 1 to 20 surfactant by weight of which a compound of formula I comprises 1 to 100 of this surfactant component and an aqueous solution, that is water which may or may not contain salts and buffers, in a quantity sufficient to make 100 by volume.Particularly preferred are formulations which contain 1 to 5 nicardipine hydrochloride, and a compound of formula I comprises 50 or more by weight of the surfactant component. Most preferred is a formulation which contains 5 nicardipine hydrochloride by weight, a compound of formula I comprises the only surfactant component which component is present in an amount of 20 by weight and an amount of aqueous solution sufficient q.s. to make 100 by volume. Formulations of this invention, particularly liposomes, made with the compounds of formula I will exhibit the properties of a positively charged entity when formula I comprises 1 or more by weight with a neutral liposome forming material. Thus, other excipients, surfactants and the like which are used for making liposomes, can be used in these formulations. One may use any combination of secondary surfactants with the compounds of formula I so long as there is 1 or more of formula I present in the formulation. Secondary surfactants which can be used are, for example, ternary or complex lipids, glycerides, cerides, etholides and sterides, namely one of several compounds wherein the hydrophilic group is phosphate, carboxylate, sulfate, amino, hydroxyl and choline group and the lipophilic group is alkyl or alkenyl, polyoxyalkylene and an alkyl group substituted with at least one aromatic or cycloalkyl group. Polyethyleneoxy or glycol groups may be used. Additional surfactants suitable for incorporation into these formulations can be found in the McCutcheon s Detergents and Emulsifiers andMcCutcheon s Functional Materials, Allured Pub. Co.,Ridgewood, N.J., U.S.A. Preferred secondary surfactants are phospholipid related materials such as, for example, lecithin, phosphatidyl ethanolamine, lysolecithin, lysophosphatidyl ethanolamine, phosphatidylserine, phosphatidylinositol, sphingomyelin, cephalin, cardiolipin, phosphatidic acid, cerebrosides, dicetyl phosphate, phosphatidylcholine and dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine. Additonal, non phosphorus containing lipids are, for instance, cetyl palmitate, glyceryl ricinoleate, hexadecyl stearate, isopropyl myristate, amphoteric acrylic polymers, triethanolamine lauryl sulfate, alkanoyl aryl sulfonates, and the like. Additional additives may be long chain alcohols and diols sterols, for example, cholesterol phosphoric esters of fatty alcohols, for example, sodium dicetyl phosphate alkylsulfates, for example sodium cetyl sulfate certain polymers such as polypeptides and proteins. Typically, liposomes can be divided into three categories based on their overall size and the nature of the lamellar structure. The three classifications, as developed by the New York Academy Sciences Meeting on, Liposomes and Their Use in Biology and Medicine, ofDecember 1977, are multi lamellar vesicles MLV , small uni lamellar vesicles SUV and large uni lamellar vesicles LUV . SUV s range in diameter from approximately 20 50 nm and consist of a single lipid bilayer surrounding an aqueous compartment. While SUV are single compartmental vesicles of fairly uniform size, MLV vary greatly in size up to 10,000 nm, or thereabouts, are multi compartmental in their structure, and contain more than one bilayer. LUV liposomes are so named because of their large diameter which ranges from about 600 nm to 30,000 nm they contain more than one bilayer. Liposomes may be prepared by a number of methods not all of which produce the three different types of liposomes. For example, ultrasonic dispersion by means of immersing the metal probe directly into a suspension of MLV s is a common way for preparing SUV s. Preparing liposomes of the MLV class usually involves dissolving the lipids in an appropriate organic solvent and then drying down the solvent under a gas or air stream. This leaves behind a thin film of dry lipid on the surface of the container. An aqueous solution is then introduced into the container with shaking in order to free lipid material from the sides of the container. This process disperses the lipid, causing it to form into lipid aggregates or liposomes. Liposomes of the LUV variety may be made by slow hydration of a thin layer of lipid with distilled water or an aqueous solution of some sort. Alternatively, liposomes may be prepared by lyophilization. This process comprises drying down lipids to a film under a stream of nitrogen. This film is then dissolved in a volatile solvent, frozen, and placed on a lyophilization apparatus to remove the solvent. A solution of drug is then added to the lyophilized lipids whereupon liposomes are formed. A variety of methods for preparing various liposome forms have been described in the periodical and patent literature. For specific reviews and information on liposome formulations, reference is made to reviews byPagano and Weinstein Ann. Rev. Biophysic. Bioeng., 7, pp. 435 68 1978 and Szoka and Papahadjopoulos Ann.Rev. Biophysic. Bioeng., 9, pp. 467 508 1980 and additionally to a number of patents, for example, U.S.Patent Nos. 4,229,360 4,224,179 4,127,344 4,193,893 4,217,344 4,241,046 4,078,052 and 4,235,871. The compounds of this invention may be prepared as a racemic mixture of D,L isomers, or as the individual Dor L isomer. Because of the availability of D or L starting materials, certain of these compounds are readily prepared as the individual isomer. However, unless the specific isomer is designated, it should be understood that this invention covers both pure D or Lisomers as well as the D,L racemate. Compounds of formula 1 have one asymmetric site, marked above as , and thus can exist as diastereomers. Individual isomers of compounds of formula 1 are named herein using the IUPAC R S convention, sometimes called the sequence rule. A description of the R S convention may be found, for example, in Introduction to Organic Chemistry by A.Streitwieser, Jr. and C. Heathcock, Macmillan Pub. Co.,New York, 1976 , pages 110 114. Where appropriate, the optical activity of a compound may be indicated by , , or , referring to the direction in which a solution of the compound rotates a plane of polarized light. Nicardipine hydrochloride, a cerebral and coronary vasodilator with calcium blocking activity, is otherwise known as methyl 1,4 dihydro 2,6 dimethyl 2 E methyl phenylmethyl amino ethyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 3, 5 pyridinedicarboxylic acid ester monohydrochloride. ItsCAS numbers are 54527 84 3 or 55985 32 5. DEFINITIONS Alkyl of 6 to 22 carbon atoms refers to a fully saturated alkane straight or branched chain radical having 6 to 22 carbon atoms including hexyl, heptyl, octyl, nonyl, decyl, undecyl, dodecyl, tridecyl, tetradecyl, pentadecyl, hexadecyl, heptadecyl, octadecyl, nonadecyl, eicosyl, heneicosyl, and docosyl. Alkenyl of 6 to 22 carbon atoms refers to any unsaturated carbon straight or branched chain radical of 6 to 22 carbon atoms which has 1 or more unsaturated bonds in the radical including hexenyl, heptenyl, octenyl, nonenyl, decenyl, undecenyl, dodenyl, tridecenyl, tetradecenyl, pentadecenyl, hexadecenyl, heptadecenyl, octadecenyl, nonadecenyl, eicosenyl, heneicosoenyl, and docosenyl. Alkyl of 1 to 8 carbon atoms refers to radicals such as methyl, ethyl, propyl and butyl, and the like, up to and including an octyl radical and those radicals which are positional isomers of these compounds. Aryl refers to benzene or naphthalene. Aralkyl of 7 to 11 carbons refers to a radical having an alkyl group to which is attached a benzene ring such as the benzyl radical, phenethyl, 3 phenylpropyl, or the like. A pharmaceutically acceptable anion is some anion which itself is not toxic or otherwise pharmaceutically unacceptable and which does not render the compound pharmaceutically unacceptable. Examples of such anions are the halide anions fluoro, chloro, bromo, and iodo.Inorganic anions such as sulfate, sulfite, phosphate, and nitrate may also be used. Organic anions may be derived from simple organic acids such as acetic acid, propionic acid, glycolic acid, pyruvic acid, oxalic acid, malic acid, malonic acid, succinic acid, maleic acid, fumeric acid, tartaric acid, citric acid, benzoic acid, cinnamic acid, mandelic acid, methane sulfonic acid, ethane sulfonic acid, p toluenesulfonic acid, and the like. Z refers to the cis form of the compound. The preferred compounds of formula I are those wherein R1 and R2 are the same and are alkyl of 12 to 20 carbon atoms, or alkenyl of 12 to 20 carbon atoms andR3, R4, and R5 are hydrogen, methyl or ethyl n is 1 to 4 and X is a halide ion. Also preferred are those compounds wherein R1 is alkyl or alkenyl of 14 to 22 carbon atoms and R2 a different alkyl or alkenyl radical of 6 to 14 carbon atoms. Most preferred are the following racemic compounds and the optical isomers thereof N 2,3 di octadecyloxy prop l yl N,N,N trimethylammonium chloride N 2, 3 di 9 Z octadecenyloxy prop l yl N ,N, N tri methylammonium chloride N 2,3 di 4 Z decenyloxy prop l yl N,N,N tri methylammonium chloride N 2,3 di hexadecyloxy prop 1 yl N,N,N trimethyl ammonium chloride N 2,3 di decyloxy prop l yl N , N, N trimethylammonium chloride N 2 hexadecyloxy 3 decyloxy prop 1 yl N,N,N tri methylammonium chloride N 2 hexadecyloxy 3 decyloxy prop 1 yl N,N dimethyl amine hydrochloride N 9,10 di decyloxy dec 1 yl N,N,N trimethylammonium chloride N 5,6 di 9 Z octadecenyloxy hex l yl N,N,N trimethylammonium chloride and N 3,4 di 9 Z octadecenyloxy but l yl N,N,N trimethylammonium chloride. Compounds of formula I of this invention are made by two procedures, depending on the value of n. Where n is 1, the compounds of this invention are derived fromD mannitol. The two central hydroxy groups of mannitol are first protected by formation of a ketal, for example formation of the acetonide. The four remaining hydroxy groups are then converted to ethers using the appropriate long chain fatty acid. This molecule is then chemically split into two units of aldehyde of 3 carbons each, wherein two carbons are substituted with a long chain alkyl or alkenyl group. The aldehyde functionality is then converted to a tertiary amine and then further converted to either the acid addition salt or a quaternary ammonium compound. This process is exemplified by Reaction Scheme I as follows. REACTION SCHEME IEMI10.1 In this reaction scheme RÚ and Rê are as defined above and R has the same definition as R3, R4, and R5 above. It should be noted that the term acetonide and the term isopropylidine are used interchangably in the following reaction schemes and examples. The D mannitol 3,4 acetonide of formula 1 is a known compound which may be prepared according to the methods of Wiggins, L. F., J. Chem. Soc., 13 1946 or Morpain,C. Tisserand, M., J. Chem. Soc. Perkins Transactions, 1 6 , 1379 1979 . To form the compound of formula 1, perchloric acid is added to a mixture of D mannitol and 2,2 dimethoxypropane in acetone to form 1,2 3,4 5,6triisopropylidine D mannitol. This compound is then dissolved in 70 acetic acid, heated for 1 1 2 hours, and crystallized from ethyl acetate to giveD mannitol 3,4 acetonide. To effect formation of compound 2, the acetonide is dissolved in an appropriate polar solvent such as dimethylformamide, diethylformamide, or the like. To this is added a strong base, such as sodium hydride, at room temperature. This mixture is then heated, preferably between about 300 and 1000C, more preferably to about 500C, with stirring for approximately 30 to 90 minutes, preferably about 60 minutes. To this is then added an alkylating agent of the desired chain length exemplified by the toluenesulfonate ester of oleoyl alcohol or by l bromohexadecane. Following addition of the alkylating agent, the temperature is increased to between about 500 and 1500C, preferably about 900C, with additional stirring over a period of up to 2 hours, preferably about 1 hour. The base heat alkylating agent heat sequence is repeated five times.In the first addition, the base is added in an equal molar amount to the amount of acetonide being used and the alkylating agent is added in an equal molar amount. This sequence of adding a molar amount of base with heating followed by a molar amount of the alkylating ester with heating and stirring is repeated four times for a total of five times in order to effect the formation of compound 2. Compound 3, a mannitol tetraether, is made by hydrolyzing the ketal, illustrated by the acetonide. The hydrolysis is carried out as a single phase reaction using a polar, water soluble organic solvent, such as tetrahydrofuran. Preferably, the hydrolysis will be effected by means of a 10 solution of water in trifluoroacetic acid. The solution of the mannitol tetraether compound 3 in organic solvent and aqueous acid solution is stirred for approximately one hour at a slightly elevated temperature, approximately 50 C, or thereabouts. The solvent is then evaporated and residual acid removed by azeotropic distillation using a solvent such as toluene. The aldehyde 4 is made by treating diol 3 with an oxidant, preferably one such as lead tetraacetate, in a solvent best illustrated by chloroform. A slight molar excess of lead tetraacetate is used to effect the reaction. The mixture is stirred at about ambient temperature for up to 4 hours, preferably about 2 hours, at which time the excess lead tetraacetate is quenched by addition of ethylene glycol followed quickly by the addition of a substantial amount Of water. The resulting crude aldehydebis recovered by conventional means and may be used without further purification directly in the next step. To effect the formation of the formula 5 amine compound, a di substituted amine hydrochloride the substituents have the definitions for R3, R4, andR5 above is dissolved in an alcohol, preferably methanol, to which solution is added a two thirds molar amount of anhydrous sodium acetate. This mixture is stirred for about an hour at ambient temperature and the resulting sodium chloride is filtered off. The methanol solution is then added to the crude aldehyde from the preceding paragraph. A second solvent, preferably tetrahydrofuran, is then added to this mixture followed by molecular sieves. To this mixture is then added a reducing agent, preferably sodium cyanoborohydride, in a slight molar excess, and the mixture is stirred at a slightly elevated temperature, preferably about 40 to 600C, for up to 3 days.This product is then converted to the hydrochloride salt by addition of an organic solvent through which HC1 gas has been bubbled. The quaternary ammonium compound is then prepared by condensing an alkyl or aralkyl chloride into a reaction vessel containing the tri substituted amine material, after which the reaction vessel is sealed and heated to about 500 to 1000C, preferably about 700C, for up to 48 hours. This procedure affords the trialkylammonium chloride product of formula I wherein each R can beR3, R4, or R5 as defined above with the proviso that when any of R3, R , or R5 is defined as aryl then that aryl group is present on the tri substituted amine . Alternatively, when compounds of Formula I, wherein n is 1 and R1 and R2 are not the same, are to be made, they can be prepared by the flowchart of ReactionScheme II which follows. REACTION SCHEME II EMI13.1 In this reacton scheme, R is benzyl. R1 and R2 are defined herein above, R1 being different from R2. The 2,5 dibenzyl D mannitol of formula 7 was prepared by the procedure of Baggett, N., Stribblehil, 3. Chem. Soc. Perkin I, 1323 1977 . Concentrated sulfuric acid is added to a solution of D mannitol and benzaldehyde in dimethylformamide. After stirring for 3 days at room temperature, the solution is poured into a mixture of ice water, potassium carbonate, and petroleum ether. The 1,3 4,6 di 0 benzilidine D mannitol is then dissolved in benzyl chloride and powdered potassium hydroxide is added. The mixture is heated to 1400C for 3 hours, then cooled and diluted with water. Extraction with chloroform followed by washing with water gives 2, 5 di O benzyl l,3 4, 6 di 0 benzilidine D mannitol. This compound is dissolved in ethanol and water and treated with 1M HC1. After refluxing for 4 1 2 hours the reaction mixture is cooled, quenched with barium carbonate, and evaporated to dryness. The solid residue is triturated with hot ethyl acetate which is then evaporated to yield 2,5 di 0 benzyl D mannitol. The dibenzyl D mannitol is dissolved in a dry solvent, for example, acetone, to which is added a half molar amount of copper sulfate and a small amount of concentrated sulfuric acid. This solution is stirred at ambient temperature for about 48 hours, at which time the mixture is quenched by means of a weak base, preferably sodium carbonate, and then stirred for an additional period of time to effect the reaction. The solvent is also the source of the ketal. The position 1 and position 6 hydroxyl groups are then etherified by means of a strong base and an l haloalkyl, or l haloalkenyl moiety. The ketal is dissolved in a non polar solvent, such as xylene, toluene, or the like, to which is added a powdered base, such as powdered potassium hydroxide and the l haloalkyl or l haloalkenyl material. This mixture is heated at reflux for about 4 hours in order to effect formation of compound 8. The two benzyl groups are then removed by catalytic hydrogenolysi s in an appropriate solvent such as tetrahydrofuran methanol. A heavy metal catalyst such as 10 palladium on carbon is used. The reaction is carried out in an appropriate hydrogenolysis device, in this instance with heating to about 600 to 80 DC, for about 48 hours under about 60 psi of hydrogen. The diol obtained from the preceding hydrogenolysis is etherified in the same manner described above for preparing compound 9. Once the tetrasubstituted D mannitol 3,4 ketal is obtained, it is converted to formula I by the series of steps recited above for conversion of formula 2 to formula I. Those compounds wherein n is 2 to 8 are prepared from the corresponding triol. The schematic for this reaction sequence is set forth in Reaction Scheme III which follows. This scheme may also be used for preparing compounds wherein n is 1. REACTION SCHEME IIIEMI15.1 In this reaction scheme, R1 and R2 are the same as defined herein above. In formula I, R is the same as R3, R4 and Rg The compounds of formula 12 are known in the literature or may be purchased from a chemical supply house or may be prepared as indicated herein. The ketal of formula 13, preferably the acetonide, is prepared by dissolving the appropriate triol in acetone with the addition of a small amount of concentrated sulfuric acid. This reaction may be effected by stirring the solution for up to about 4 hours at room temperature, preferably about 2 hours. The resulting ketal is then recovered by standard separatory means. The unreacted position l hydroxyl group is then protected by forming an allyl ether, compound 14. This reaction is carried out by dissolving the alcohol in a dry dipolar aprotic solvent, such as dimethylformamide.A strong base, such as sodium hydride an equal molar amount , is added to the alcohol which is stirred at ambient temperature for a set period and then warmed to between 800 and 100 C for an equal period. Allyl chloride, in about a 50 molar excess, is then added at the elevated temperature with stirring. Stirring and heating is continued for another 30 to 120 minutes, preferably about 60 minutes. The product is then extracted and further purified by chromatographic means. The ketal group is then hydrolyzed by means of a dilute solution of a strong acid, for example, 1N HC1, the reaction being carried out in a polar solvent, such as methanol, ethanol, or the like. Some heat is added to the reaction mixture to effect the hydrolysis.Preferably, the solution is heated to about 500C for about 2 hours. The diol, compound 15, is converted to the diether, compound 16, in the same manner as described above for conversion of formula 1 to formula 2. Here again the etherification carried out in a dry dipolar aprotic solvent, such as dimethylformamide, using a strong base, such as sodium hydride, and the tosyl ester or halide of the appropriate alkyl or alkenyl alcohol. The reaction is repeated twice using a one molar equivalent of alkylating agent each time. As described previously, the reaction is effected at an elevated temperature, preferably between 500 and 1500C, more specifically at about 900C. The position allyl ether, compound 16, is then hydrolyzed by means of Wilkinson s catalyst tris triphenylphosphine , rhodium chloride in an acid medium. The solvent should be a polar solvent such as ethanol, preferably with a co solvent such as tetrahydrofuran. The triether catalyst mixture is refluxed for several hours, preferably about 3 hours, at which time additional acid 1N HC1 is added and refluxing continued for several more hours, approximately 3 to 4 hours. These conditions effect hydrolysis of the allyl ether to compound 17. The alcohol, compound 17, is then converted to the amine by first creating an intermediate p toluenesulfonate ester to which is added a di substituted amine to effect formation of the amine compound. By way of illustration, the alcohol is dissolved in a suitable solvent, such as pyridine, to which is added p toluenesulfonyl chloride. This mixture is stirred overnight at ambient temperature, then cooled in ice water and the product recovered by extraction means. The crude product is immediately dissolved in a di substituted amine, preferably dimethylamine, and placed in a sealed container at ambient temperature for about 1 day to effect formation of the tri substituted amine. The alcohol, compound 17, can also be converted to the quarternary amine wherein R3, R4, and or R5 form a ring with the nitrogen by reacting compound of formula 17 with p toluenesulfonyl chloride to give the crude tosylate. This compound can be dissolved in methyl ethyl ketone and sodium iodide is added. The mixture is refluxed for 5 hours. The resulting iodopropane compound is dissolved in dichloromethane and the appropriate cyclic nitrogen containing compound is added. The mixture is sealed in a pressure reactor and heated to 1000C for 48 hours followed by chromatography to obtain the appropriate quarternary ammonium compound in which R3, R4, and R5 form a ring with nitrogen, for example, quinuclidine.Alternatively the alcohol, compound 17, is converted to the tosylate, compound 18, which is then reacted in a sealed pressure reactor to form the quarternary compound without going through the formation of the iodine containing compound. If two of R3, R4, and R5 form a ring with nitrogen, for example, pyrrolidine, piperidine, or morpholine, then alcohol 17 is converted to amine 19 as described above. Amine 19 is then reacted with a di substituted amine hydrochloride to form the corresponding compound of formula I following the same procedures as given above for the reaction of compound 5 to a compound of formula I. The tri substituted amine, compound 19, is most conveniently converted to an acid addition salt, preferably a hydrochloride salt, as a means of isolating the product. The quaternary ammonium product, formula I, is then prepared in the same manner as described hereinabove for the preparation of formula I. The following examples are given to illustrate the preparation of the subject compounds and provide examples or their use in pharmaceutical formulations and the preparation of liposomes. These examples are intended to be illustrative only and not to be limiting in any manner. PREPARATION 1 1,2 3,4 5, 6 triisopropylidine D mannitol Perchloric acid 3.5 ml, 70 was added to a mixture of D mannitol 100 grams and 2,2 dimethoxypropane 700 ml in acetone 100 ml . After stirring this mixture at room temperature for 18 hours, sodium bicarbonate 5 grams was added to the solution. This mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour and then was filtered. The filtrate was concentrated to 1 2 of the original volume and diluted with water 500 ml to give the title compound. PREPARATION 2 D mannitol 3 , 4 acetonide 1,2 3,4 5, 6 triisopropylidine D mannitol 90 grams was dissolved in 70 acetic acid 250 ml and heated at 450C for 1.5 hours. The mixture was concentrated in vacuo to an oil. This oil was resuspended in toluene 150 ml and again concentrated in vacuo. The resulting oil was dissolved in ethyl acetate 400 ml and cooled to 50C. The title compound crystallized from this mixture. EXAMPLE 1 1,3 4,6 Di 0 benylidine D mannitol Concentrated sulfuric acid 40 ml was added to Åa solution of 0 mannitol 200 grams and benzaldehyde 240 ml in dimethylformamide 600 ml . After stirring this solution at room temperature for 3 days, the mixture was poured into a stirred mixture of ice water 6 liters , potassium carbonate 60 grams and petroleum ether 1 liter . The resulting solid was collected by filtration, washed with petroleum ether and triturated wih hot chloroform to give the title compound, m.p., 190 1910C. EXAMPLE 2 ,5 Di 0 benzyl 1,3 4,6 di 0 benzylidene Powdered potassium hydroxide 37 grams was added to l,3 4,6 di 0 benzylidene D mannitol 10 grams dissolved in benzyl chloride 64 ml . The mixture was heated at 1400C for 3 hours, then cooled and diluted with water 200 ml . Extraction with chloroform, followed by washing with water and evaporation gave a solid, which was crystallized from petroleum ether to give the captioned compound, m.p., 102 1030C. EXAMPLE 3 2,5 Di O benzyl D mannitol 2,5 Di O benzyl 1,3 4,6 di 0 benzylidene D mannitol 10.9 grams dissolved in ethanol 150 ml and water 22 ml was treated with 1M HC1 7 ml . After refluxing this mixture for 4.5 hours, the reaction was cooled and quenched with barium carbonate, then evaporated to dryness. The solid residue was triturated with hot ethyl acetate, which was then evaporated to give the captioned compound, m.p., 116 1170C. EXAMPLE 4 1,2,10 Decanetriol 9 Decen l ol 25.0 grams, 160 mM was dissolved in a solution made up of t butanol 100 ml , acetone 90 ml and water 10 ml . To this solution was added trimethylamine N oxide 26.6 grams, 240 mM and 2 ml of a solution of osmium tetroxide 500 mg in t butanol 25 ml . The resulting solution was stirred 20 hours under nitrogen then 10 sodium bisulfite was added 50 ml .The mixture was concentrated, then taken up in trichloromethane and washed 2 times with water, dried with Na2SO4 and concentrated to give 1,2,10 decanetriol as an oil. This material was used without further purification in preparation of the corresponding compound of formula I following the procedures described in Examples 16 through 22 below. EXAMPLE 5 2,5 Di O benzzl D mannitol 3,4 acetonide 2,5 Di O benzyl D mannitol 48 grams, 133 mM dissolved in dry acetone 1000 ml was treated with copper II sulfate lO grams, 62.6 mM and concentratedSulfuric acid 2 ml . After stirring at room temperature for 48 hours, the mixture was quenched by the addition of solid sodium carbonate, followed by stirring for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was filtered and concentrated and the residue was crystallized from hexane ethyl acetate to give 38.0 grams of the title compound, m.p. 73 740C. The title compound is then reacted using the procedures of examples 16 through 22 below to obtain N 9,10 di 9 Z octadecenyloxy dec l yl N,N,N tri methylammonium chloride. EXAMPLE 6 2,5 Di O henzyl 1,6 didecyl D mannitol 3,4 acetonide A mixture of 2,5 di O benzyl D mannitol3,4 acetonide 10.0 grams, 25 mM , powdered potassium hydroxide 23 grams and decyl bromide 40 ml in xylene 300 ml was heated at reflux for 4 hours. The mixture was cooled, diluted with hexanes 300 ml , decanted from excess salts and applied to a column of dry silica gel 1 Kg . Elution with hexanes followed by a gradient of O to 50 ether in hexanes gave the title compound as an oil. EXAMPLE 7 1,6 Didecyl D mannitol 3,4 acetonide Dibenzyl compound of Example 6 6.0 grams, 8.8 mM was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran methanol 1 1, 100 ml .After bubbling nitrogen through for several minutes, lOX palladium on carbon 1 gram was added and the mixture was shaken at 700C under 60 psi hydrogen for 48 hours.The mixture was filtered and concentrated to give the title compound 4.3 grams as a white solid m.p. 36 39 C. EXAMPLE 8 1,6 Didecyl 2,5 dihexadecyl D mannitol 3,4 acetonide 1,6 Didecyl D mannitol 3,4 acetonide 4.3 grams, 8.57 mM and bromohexadecane 7.84 grams, 25.7 mM were dissolved in xylene 40 ml and KOH 5.0 grams was added. This mixture was stirred at reflux for 1.5 hours. After cooling the mixture was decanted onto a column of silica gel dry, 200 qrams , then eluted with hexanes followed by D ether in hexanes to aive the title compound 7.39 as an oil. The procedures set out in examples 10, 11 and 12 below are followed to form S N 3 decyloxy 2 hexadecyloxy prop l yl N,N dimethylamine hydrochloride, m.p. 45 480C, caul 18.70 CHCl3 and S N 3decyloxy 2 hexadecyloxy prop 1 yl N,N,N trimethylammonium chloride, m.p. 88 900C, C 24.7 CHCl3 . a 0 EXAMPLE 9 1,2,5, 6 Tetraoleoyl D mannitol 3 ,4 acetonide D Mannitol 3,4 acetonide 5.0 grams, 22.52 mM was dissolved in dimethylformamide 200 ml, distilled from calcium hydride under reduced pressure . To this solution was added sodium hydride 1.08 grams, 22.52 mM, 50 oil dispersion and the mixture was heated to 500C and stirred for 1 hour mechanical stirrer required . To the resulting mixture was added the toluenesultonate of oleoyl alcohol 9.5 grams, 22.52 mM . The temperature was increased to 900C and stirring was continued for 1 hour. The sequence of addition of sodium hydride same amount and stirring 1 hour, then addition of oleoyl tosylate same amount and stirring 1 hour, all at a constant 900C, was repeated 4 more times total of 5 times . The reaction mixture was allowed to cool to room temperature than poured slowly into a saturated solution of sodium chloride 500 ml . The resulting mixture was extracted with hexanes 3 x 250 ml , dried potassium carbonate and concentrated. The crude product was chromatographed over silica gel 1000 grams eluting with a gradient of from O to 5 diethyl ether in hexanes to give 13.93 grams of the title compound as a viscous oil. EXAMPLE 10 1,2,5, 6 Tetraoleoyl D mannitol To a solution of 1,2,5,6 tetraoleoyl D mannitol 3,4 acetonide 24.0 grams, 19.62 mM in tetrahydrofuran 100 ml was added H20 trifluoroacetic acid 1 9, 100 ml . This solution was stirred for 1 hour at 500C, then concentrated to an oil by rotary evaporation. Toluene 200 ml was added and evaporated to azeotropically remove the residual acid. The crude material was dissolved in diethyl ether 100 ml and a saturated solution of ammonium hydroxide in water 10 ml was added. This mixture was stirred for 2 hours and then the ether phase was washed two times with water, dried magnesium sulfate and concentrated. The crude product was suitable for further reaction a small portion was purified by column chromatography over silica gel 10 ethyl acetate hexanes to give an analytical sample of the desired diol as a viscous oil. EXAMPLE 11 N 2,5 Di 9 Z octadecenyloxy prop l yl N,N, dimethylamine The crude diol 1,2,5,6 tetraoleoyl D mannitol described in the previous example, was dissolved in chloroform 500 ml and lead tetraacetate 11.8 grams, 26.0 mM was added. This mixture was stirred for 2 hours and then ethylene glycol 5 ml was added followed quickly by water 100 ml . The water phase was drawn off and the organic phase was washed once with saturated sodium chloride solution, dried magnesium sulfate , and concentrated to an oil to give the crude aldehyde which was used immediately in the next step. To a solution of dimethylamine hydrochloride 35.5 grams, 435 mM in methanol 150 ml was added anhydrous sodium acetate 24 grams, 282 mM . The mixture was stirred for 1 hour and then the resulting sodium chloride was filtered off and the clear methanol solution added to the crude aldehyde. Tetrahydrofuran 150 ml was added followed by 3 Angström molecular sieves about 20 grams . Sodium cyanoborohydride 1.5 grams, 23.9 mM was added and the mixture was stirred at SOOC for three days. The crude reaction mixture was filtered through celite washing with 1 1 tetrahydrofuran and the solution was strongly acidified with 1N HC1 and stirred for 1 2 hour. The solution was then made strongly basic with 10 NaOH and extracted with diethyl ether 3 x 200 ml .The crude product was purified by column chromatography over silica gel using a gradient of O to 10 methanol in chloroform to give the captioned dimethylamino product as a viscous oil. The hydrochloride salt of the title compound was prepared by dissolving the foregoing product 100 mg in ether 10 ml and adding three drops of ethyl acetate saturated with HC1 gas. The resulting solution was concentrated and placed under high vacuum for 24 hours.The resulting product was a gummy solid as the S isomer. In a similar manner, substituting the appropriate diol compound from Example 10, the following compound was prepared S N 2,3 di hexadecyloxy prop 1 yl N,N dlmethyl 25 amine hydrochloride, m.p. 49 50 C, alpha D 8.39 CHCl3 . EXAMPLE 12 N 2,3 Di 9 Z octadecenyloxy prop 1 yl N,N,N trimethylammonium chloride The dimethyl amino product N 2,3 di 9 Z octadecenyloxy prop l yl N,N dimethylamine 10 grams was placed in a Parr pressure reactor and cooled to 780C. Methyl chloride about 50 ml was condensed into the reaction vessel, which was then sealed and heated to 700C for 48 hours. The reaction vessel was cooled and opened and the methyl chloride allowed to evaporate under a stream of nitrogen.The crude product was crystallized from acetonitrile to give the title compound as an oft white solid, S N 2,3 di 9 Z octadecenyloxy prop 1 yl N,N,N trimethylammonium 25 chloride, alpha D 20.00 CHCl3 Proceeding in a similar manner, but substituting forN 2,3 di 9 Z octadecenyloxy prop 1 yl N,N dimethyl amine the appropriate precursor, the following compounds are prepared S N 2,3 di decyloxy prop 1 yl N,N,N trimethyl ammonium chloride, m.p. 87 880C, 2o5 26.50 CHC13 S N 2,3 di hexadecyloxy prop 1 yl N,N,N tri methylammonium chloride, 25 23.40 CH30H D S N 2,3 di 4 Z decenyloxy prop 1 yl N,N,N trimethylammonium chloride, wax, alpha 25 0 CHC13 D S N 2,3 di docosyloxy prop 1 yl N,N,N tri methylammonium chloride, m.p. 16l163CC, 25 0 15.7 CHC13 and N 2,3 di 9 Z octadecenyloxy prop l yl N,N,N trimethylammonium chloride, m.p. 35 380C, NMR 300 MHz, CDCl3 5.35 t, 3 5 Hz, 4H , 4.15 3.90 m, 2H , 3.80 3.40 m, 3H , 3.49 s, 9H , 3.43 t, 3 7 Hz, 4H , 2.01 m, 8H , 1.56 m, H , 1.27 m, 40H , 0.88 t, J 7 Hz, 6H0. EXAMPLE 13 2,3 Di 9 Z octadecenyl propan 1 ol The crude diol 1,2,5,6 tetraoleoyl D mannitol described in example 10, was dissolved in chloroform 500 ml and lead tetraacetate 11.8 grams, 26.0 mM was added. This mixture was stirred for 2 hours and then ethylene glycol 5 ml was added followed quickly by water 100 ml . The water phase was drawn off and the organic phase was washed once with saturated sodium chloride solution, dried magnesium sulfate , and concentrated to an oil to give the crude aldehyde which was used immediately in the next step. Crude 2,3 di 9 Z octadecenyl propan l al 10.0 grams, 16.9 mM was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran methanol 1 1, 200 ml and cooled to OOC. Sodium borohydride 3.13 grams, 85.0 mM was added and the mixture was stirred overnight. The solution was acidified with 1NHC1 to pH 2, diluted with ether, washed with water, concentrated and column chromatographed chloroform to give the title compound as an oil. EXAMPLE 14 2. 3Di 9 Z octadecenyloxy l iodopropane The alcohol 2,3 di 9 Z octadecenyl propan l ol 5.0 grams, 8.36 mM was dissolved in pyridine 50 ml and p toluenesulfonyl chloride 1.91 grams, 10.0 mM was added. The solution was stirred for 24 hours then poured into ice water, extracted with ether and washed with 1NHC1 until the aqueous layer remains acidic. The organic phase was dried magnesium sulfate and concentrated to give crude tosylate. The material was dissolved in methyl ethyl ketone 50 ml , sodium iodide 1.5 grams, 10.0 mM was added and refluxed for 5 hours. The solvent was stripped and. the residue was taken up in ether and washed with water. The organic layer was concentrated and chromatographed to give the title compound as an oil. EXAMPLE 15 N 2,3 Di 9 Z octadecenyloxy prop l quinuclidinium chloride The iodopropane of Example 14 2.0 grams, 2.82 mM was dissolved in dichloromethane 1 ml and quinuclidine 1.57 grams, 14.1 mM was added. The solution was sealed in a pressure reactor and heated to 100 C for 48 hours. The crude product was chromatographed over a small plug of silica gel O to 5 methanol in chloroform and then ion exchanged over dowex 2 X8 chloride form, eluting with methanol to give the title compound, S N 2,3 di 9 Z octadecenyloxy prop l yl quinuclidinium iodide, m.p. 81 830C, 25 33.5 CHCl3 D In a similar manner, but substituting the appropriate starting material, the following compounds were prepared N methyl N 2,3 di hexadecyloxy prop l yl pyrrolidinium chloride, m.p. 71 730C N methyl N 2,5 di hexadecyloxy prop 1 yl piperidinium chloride, m.p. lll 1160C fl N methyl N 2,3 di hexadecyloxy prop 1 yl morpholinium chloride, m.p. 118 1210C. EXAMPLE 16 5, 6 isopropylidine hexan l ol 1,2,6 Hexanetriol 31 grams, 0.23 mM was stirred with acetone 150 ml . To this mixture was added concentrated sulfuric acid 5 drops . The resulting solution was stirred for 2 hours at room temperature.The reaction solution was diluted with diethyl ether, washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution, dried magnesium sulfate and concentrated to give the title compound 31 grams as a clear oil. EXAMPLE 17 5,6 isopropylidine hexan l allyl ether The hexan l ol of Example 16 30 grams, 172 mM was dissolved in dry dimethylformamide 500 ml . To this solution was added sodium hydride 8.28 grams, 172 mM, 50 oil dispersion and the mixture was stirred for 1 2 hour at room temperature then warmed to 90 C over 1 2 hour. To this mixture was added allyl chloride 21 ml, 258 mM and the stirring was continued for 1 hour. After cooling, the mixture was poured into water and extracted with ether 2 x 100 ml . The combined ether extracts were washed with brine, dried magnesium sulfate and concentrated. Chromatography over silica gel 10 ether in hexanes gave the title product as a clear oil bp 700C at 0.01 mmHg. EXAMPLE 18 5,6 di hedroxy hexan l allyl ether In ethanol 100 ml was dissolved 3,6 isopropylidine hexan l allyl ether 20 grams, 93.9 mM to which was added 20 ml of 1N HC1. The solution was then heated to 500C for 2 hours. The resulting solution was concentrated, then taken up in chloroform 100 ml and washed with brine 2 x 10 ml , dried sodium sulfate and concentrated to give the title compound as a clear oil. EXAMPLE 19 5,6 Di 9 Z octadecenyloxy hexan l allyl ether The product of Example 18 3.45 grams, 19.83 mM was dissolved in dry dimethylformamide 60 ml . To this solution was added sodium hydride 951 mg, 19.8 mM . The mixture was heated to 900C and oleoyl tosylate 8.37 grams, 19.8 mM was added. Stirring was continued for 1 hour at which time a second equivalent of sodium hydride 951 mg, 19.8 mM was added. After 15 minutes a second equivalent of oleoyl tosylate 8.37 grams, 198 mM was added and stirring was continued for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was poured into water and extracted with ether 2 x 100 ml . Column chromatography over silica gel O to 5 ether in hexanes gave 3.5 grams of the title compound as a clear oil. EXAMPLE 20 5,6 Di 9 Z octadecenyloxy hexan l ol The triether of Example 19 3.20 grams, 4.74 mM was dissolved in ethanol tetrahydrofuran 1 1, 30 ml andWilkinson s catalyst tris triphenylphosphine , rhodium chloride, 200 mg was added followed by O.1N HC1 1 ml .This mixture was refluxed for 3 hours then 1 N HC1 5 ml was added and refluxed 4 hours. The solution was cooled and concentrated. Diethyl ether was added and washed with brine, dried magnesium sulfate , concentrated and chromatographed over silica gel 5 to 50 ether in hexanes to give 2.56 grams of the title alcohol as an oil. EXAMPLE 21 I N 5,6 di 9 Z octadecenyloxy hex l yl N,N dimethyl amine The substituted hexan l ol from Example 20 2.50 grams, 3.94 mM was dissolved in pyridine 20 ml and p toluenesulfonyl chloride 0.90 grams, 4.73 mM was added. This mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature then poured into ice water and stirred 1 2 hour. the resulting mixture was extracted with ether and the ether phase was washed with 0.1N HC1, dried magnesium sulfate and concentrated. This crude intermediate was immediately dissolved in dimethylamine and placed in a sealed tube at room temperature for 20 hours. The tube was cooled to 0 C and opened.The dimethylamine was allowed to evaporate under a stream of nitrogen. column chromatography of the crude product over silica gel O to 5 methanol in chloroform gave the title product as a very thick oil. The hydrochloride was prepared as described in Example 11. This was also an oil, NMR 300 MHz, CDC13 5.40 5.30 m, 4H , 3.65 3.50 m, 1H , 3.50 3.30 m, 6H , 3.05 2.90 m, 2H , 2.79 s, 6H , 2.10 1.65 m, llH , 1.65 1.45 m, 8H , 1.45 1.15 m,44H , 0.95 0.80 m, 6H . In a similar manner, but substituting the appropriate starting material, the following compounds were prepared r N 3,4 di 9 Z octadecenyloxy but l yl N,N dimethylamine hydrochloride, oil, NMR 90 MHz, CDC13 5.33 t, J 5 Hz, 4H , 3.85 3.15 m, 18H , 2.20 1.80 run, 8H , 1.70 1.00 m, 50H , 0.88 t, J 7 Hz, 6H t N 9,10 di 9 Z octadecenyloxy dec l yl N,N dimethylamine hydrochloride, wax, NMR 90 MHz,CDC13 5.34 t, J 5 Hz, 4H , 4.65 4.25 m, 9H , 2.81 s, 3H , 2.75 s, 3H , 2.20 1.75 m, 8H , 1.75 1.00 m, 62H , 0.88 t, J 7 Hz, 6H . EXAMPLE 22 t N 5,6 Di 9 Z octadecenyloxy hex l yl N,N,N trimethylammonium chloride This product was prepared in the same manner as set out in Example 12. N 5,6 di 9 Z octadecenyl hex l yl N,N dimethyl amine hydrochloride, oil, NMR 300 MHZ, CDC13 5.35 t, J 5 Hz, 4H , 3.70 3.30 m, 7H , 2.97 m, 2H , 2.79 s, 6H , 2.10 1.70 m, lOH , 1.70 1.10 m, 59H , 0.88 t, J 7 Hz, 6H t N 5,6 di 9 Z octadecenyloxy hex l yl N,N,N trimethylammonium chloride, oil In a similar manner, using the appropriate starting material, the following compounds were prepared r N 9,10 di 9 Z octadecenyloxy dec l yl N,N,N trimethylammonium chloride, oil, NMR 300 MHz,CDC13 5.40 5.30 t, J t Hz, 4H , 3.70 3.30 m, 9H , 3.46 s, 9H , 2.10 1.90 m, 8H , 1.85 1.65 m, 2H , 1.60 1.20 m, 50H , 0.88 t, J 7Hz, 6H N 3,4 di hexadecyloxy but 1 yl N,N,N trimethylammonium chloride, m.p. l77l79CC. EXAMPLE 23 The following compositions illustrate the use of the instant compounds in pharmaceutical formulations. Nicardipine hydrochloride, 50 mg, 100 mg of N 2,3 di octadecyloxy prop 1 yl N,N,N trimethylammonium chloride and 100 mg dioleoylphosphatidylcholine were dissolved in 5 ml chloroform. The chloroform was removed under a stream of nitrogen and place under vacuum overnight to ensure removal of residual solvent. The resulting film was suspended in 1 ml of purified water and sonicated to clarity. In a similar manner other concentrations of drug in liposome can be prepared. By varying the amount or aqueous solution added to the film, the concentration of nicardipine hydrochloride in the final liposome formulation can be varied between 0.05 and 10 by weight. EXAMPLE 24 The ability to solubilize a drug is increased by use of the compounds and liposomes described above. In this way a greater concentration of a normally insoluble or sparingly soluble drug can be presented to the body. For example, a small unilamellar vesicle SUV formulation containing 12 mg of nicardipine hydrochloride and 65 mg of a 50 50 by weight mixture of N 2,3 di 9 Z octadecenyloxy prop l yl N, N,N trimethylammonium chloride and dioleoylphosphatidylcholine per ml of SUV was prepared as follows The lipids and nicardipine hydrochloride were aliquoted into clean, 10 ml, sonicating glass vials and dried to a thin film by flushing the vials with nitrogen. The vials were protected from light at all times because nicardipine hydrochloride is light sensitive. One ml of 5 mM sodium acetate buffer pH 5 was added to each vial, and the vials were vortexed vigorously until all the lipid and nicardipine hydrochloride was suspended to yield a milky solution. The solution has formed multilamellar vesicles MLV .The vials were extensively sonicated until the MLV were reduced in size to yield a clear yellow solution of SUV. The same concentration of nicardipine hydrochloride without the presence of any lipids is insoluble in 5 mM sodium acetate buffer pH 5 .