# DEVICE FOR TUNING A VCO TO THE CARRIER FREQUENCY OF EACH RADAR PULSE

## Claims
Schaltung zur schnellen Abstimmung der Frequenz eines Spannungsgesteuerten Oszillators auf die Trägerfrequenz jedes Radarimpulses, umfassend

## Description
The present invention relates to an electronic device which can tune a voltage controlled oscillator VCO carrier frequency, pulse to pulse, to the carrier frequency of a radar pulse, operating over bands beyond one octave. Such device can compensate for frequency errors up to 500 MHz in a time period shorter than 100 µsec . As the device is equipped with a memory circuit, signal lock may be maintained for the time sufficient to allow to reject any type of intentional interference. The invention belongs to the radar field, and more exactly, to the field of frequency tuning devices . It finds specific application in the field of Electronic Counter Measures. Here, the function of such devices is to effect in the shortest possible time, VCO tuning to the radar pulse carrier frequency. This way, further modulation of the VCO around such carrier, by means of noise or interference, may mask the radar return echo so as to deprive it of presence information in the case of surveillance and of tracking radars. At present, tuning problems are solved, in general, through devices such as The PLL uses a phase detector as a comparator between input signal and VCO phase. This phase difference at the phase detector PD output is converted into a difference of potential, which applied to the VCO, changes its frequency in a way to reduce the initial phase error. The AFC is based upon a frequency discriminator which may be of two types In the case of the IF discriminator, two resonant circuits tuned to frequencies symmetrical to a prefixed reference frequency are used resonance curves, one of which inverted, if the detected signal difference is calculated give way to the typical 5 voltage frequency curve of the discriminator, the null point of which coincides with the prefixed reference frequency. In the case of the interferometric discriminator the input signal is split anto two branches, one of which reaches a phase detector directly, while the other one reaches destination via a delay line. The phase detector output is a voltage proportional to the phase between the two signals. This phase difference, in turn, is proportional to the input signal frequency. The voltage proportional to the frequency difference, sent to the VCO, is such that through the AFC loop, the frequency received and that of the VCO are made to coincide. In a tuning system using the PLL principle, there is a tight relation between lock in band and loop band. This means that when a lock in band of a few hundred MHz is required, one PLL alone does not solve the problem adequately for obvious physical reasons relating to component bandwidth. In a tuning system using the AFC principle, lock in time is related to the loop bandwidth, and the maximum Δf for which the loop can lock is exclusively set by the frequency discriminator characteristics. It s a well known fact that an IF type frequency discriminator has a limited lock in range tens of MHz while an interferometric discriminator, which gives way to wider lock in ranges, has the drawback of large deviations from linearity, as well as noise and dynamics problems. Furthermore lock in times are longer and the loop is not suitable for ultrarapid tuning. In any case these discriminators, working at fixed reference frequencies, do not give fast lock in because the frequency measurement, onto which lock in has to take place, and that of VCO, must be made on the same discriminating element at different times. US A 3 794 771 relates to a frequency loop that monitors several different input channels in a repetitive sequence. The method shown in the present invention is significantly different from the known method in that the invention is not limited to a device which monitors several input channels in a repetitive sequence. In addition, the operation of the known device is heavily dependent upon a multiplexed integrator module comprised of an operational amplifier, elements not present anywhere in the present invention. This active integrator serves to isolate the charge on each integrator capacitor from ground during respective beam OFF periods. In the present invention the hold capacitor is always referenced to ground. Also, the discriminator of the known device is radically different from the frequency discriminator of the present invention. WO 81 01616 shows a circuit containing a frequency discriminator, amplifiers, and a track and hold circuit, such elements are not connected in the same manner as required by the present invention . For example, WO 81 01616 does not have a track and hold circuit coupled to the output of the first amplifier as claimed. Furthermore, the output from the known frequency discriminator is split, being sent to an operational amplifier and to a track and hold. The present invention does not split the output from the frequency discriminator the entire output is sent to an amplifier whose output is in turn sent to a track and hold. The function of the track and hold in this circuit is to enable a frequency comparison and correction phase to be carried out during burst OFF periods. Objects of the present invention are to To facilitate further discussion of the present invention, the following drawings are provided in which The figures may be described in further detail as follows. Figure 1 shows a block diagram of the device, where the elements listed below have the indicated reference numerals Figure 2 shows the frequency discriminator circuit block diagram shown as 1 in Figure 1. It is made up of As can be seen from the figures, the radar signal , arriving from a possible threat missile en route , arrives at the frequency discriminator 1 and a d.c. term appears at its output which is proportional to the input frequency difference coming one from the VCO 5 performing voltage to frequency conversion, the other from the radar with their sign, and a frequency term twice that of the frequency difference, which varies with a cosine law. The term useful for the loop is the d.c. one, corresponding to the radar pulse. The two video amplifier stages 2 and 4, doubled for dynamic reasons, serve to fix the correct gain value of the loop to enable lock in from a prefixed initial Δf with the accuracy desired. A S H circuit track and hold or memory circuit 3 maintains, for some time, the VCO line 5 onto that of the signal once the tuning phase is over. VCO 5 varies its frequency rapidly 30 nsec as the output voltage from the discriminator 1 changes. With reference to Figure 2 and calling f₅ and f In 1 the sum frequency term has been neglected as such term either falls outside the operational band or is about 20 dB below the difference frequency term. Such assumption holds true for all the sum frequency terms . For the same reason, low pass filters at the output of 6 have not been used. It is worth noting that the differentiator makes use of an RC structure using a very low loss, high precision capacitor chip mounted onto a 50 ϑhm line manufactured on an alumina substrate Al₂ O₃ As the capacitor is precision made so that the electrodes are effectively two parallel planes having uniform thickness and dimensions contained within the defined tolerances, precisions on the capacity value of the order of 0.01 pF are obtained. The manufacturing tolerances and the very low loss dielectric are such that inductive and resonant phenomena are negligible, so that the capacitor manufactured continues to behave as an ideal capacitor even at extremely high frequencies. The fixing of the device into the substrate is achieved through thermal compression taking care to minimize terminal lenght to reduce all parassite effects. From the last relation it can be seen that the output of the Fig. 2 circuit produces a continuous term which is proportional to the frequency difference in sign and to a frequency term which depends on twice the difference frequency, which varies with a cosine profile. The d.c. term is the useful one in terms of loop performance, while the cosine term, for hight Δf durations, is averaged or filtered by the loop and for Δf As in an AFC loop the following holds true W To this end the track hold 3 time constant is exploited, whereby it is dimensioned to achieve the desired closed loop cutoff frequency. The video amplifiers, twin for dynamics reasons, arc such that with discriminator kd and VCO K The device of this invention utilizes, in an original manner, a quadri correlator as a frequency discriminator in a RF tuning loop. Normal RF mixers are used, obtainable on the market and no recourse is made to delay lines as in present interferometric discriminators. This allows a very wide operational bandwidth of the device, which is limited exclusively by the present microwave components. A peculiarity of this discriminator is the characteristic voltage frequency S curve which does not have its null at a prefixed frequency, but, rather, presents its null always correspondingly to the frequency of the subject signal over the whole working band. The assembly achieves in simple manner obsolutely outstanding performances, which similar configurations have never achieved The device of the present invention, is particularly useful for those operational situations where fast switching of a radar signal is required. Furthermore due to its high performances, including very fast lock in time, it is suitable for inclusion in systems for agile and coded radars interference which are todate immune to electronic warfare equipment.