# IMPROVED APPARATUS FOR MASS FLOW RATE AND DENSITY MEASUREMENT

## Claims
Durchflußmesser zum Messen des Massendurchsatzes in einem Strom fließenden Materials, mit einer röhrenförmigen Leitungseinrichtung, die in Form einer Schleife 125, 127 angeordnet ist, mit einem Eingangsabschnitt, durch den das fließende Material in die Leitungseinrichtung eintritt, einem Ausgangsabschnitt, durch den das fließende Material aus der Leitungseinrichtung austritt, einem angetriebenen Abschnitt zwischen dem Eingangs und dem Ausgangsabschnitt, einem ersten Erfassungsbereich, der den Eingangsabschnitt und den angetriebenen Abschnitt verbindet, und einem zweiten Erfassungsbereich, der den angetriebenen Abschnitt und den Ausgangsabschnitt verbindet, wobei der Eingangs und der Ausgangsabschnitt so angeordnet sind, daß das fließende Material in im wesentlichen derselben Richtung in den Durchflußmesser eintritt und aus ihm austritt einer Antriebseinrichtung 42 , um zu bewirken, daß der angetriebene Abschnitt um eine erste Achse Y Y zwischen Positionen auf gegenüberliegenden Seiten einer Ruheposition schwingt einer Erfassungseinrichtung 46,48,56 zum Erfassen von Bewegungsunterschieden, die zwischen dem Eingangsabschnitt und dem Ausgangsabschnitt auftreten und die durch Coriolis Kräfte verursacht sind, die um eine zweite Achse X X senkrecht zu der ersten Achse Y Y wirken und in dem ersten Erfassungsbereich und in dem zweiten Erfassungsbereich induziert werden, wenn die Antriebseinrichtung bewirkt, daß der angetriebene Abschnitt oszilliert und einer Rechen und Anzeigeeinrichtung 54 , welche auf die Erfassungseinrichtung anspricht und so betrieben ist, daß sie den Massendurchsatz des Materials, das durch die röhrenförmige Leitungseinrichtung fließt, anzeigt dadurch gekennzeichnet, daß die Schleife 125 oder 127 im allgemeinen wendelförmig ist, wobei der Ausgangsabschnitt den Eingangsabschnitt beabstandet kreuzt, und die Schleife eine Abmessung L entlang der ersten Achse Y Y und eine Abmessung H entlang der zweiten Achse X X hat, so daß das Verhältnis L H größer als 1 ist.

## Description
THE PRESENT INVENTION relates generally to mass flow rate and density measuring apparatus and more particularly to a flow meter of the kind which comprises a tubular conduit means arranged to form a loop having an entrance portion through which the flowing material enters the conduit means, an exit portion through which the flowing material exits the conduit means, an actuated portion intermediate the entrance and exit portions, a first detection portion coupling the entrance portion and the actuated portion, and a second detection portion coupling the actuated portion and the exit portion, the entrance and exit portions being arranged so that the flowing material enters and exits the flow meter in substantially the same direction actuating means for causing said actuated portion to oscillate about a first axis Y Y between positions on opposite sides of a rest position detection means for detecting motive differences occurring between the entrance portion and the exit portion caused by Coriolis forces acting about a second axis X X perpendicular to the first axis Y Y and induced in the first detection portion and the second detection portion as the actuating means causes the actuated portion to oscillate and computing and indicator means responsive to the detection means and operative to indicate the mass flow rate of material flowing through the tubular conduit means. A flow meter of this kind is disclosed in outline in Figure 5 of US Patent No. 4127028 issued to Bruce M. Cox, the disclosed flow meter having a looped conduit means forming a circular flow path and being driven at a frequency of oscillation about the first axis which is nearly the same as the natural frequency of vibration of the conduit means about the second axis. The described structure of the prior art flow meter results in a meter which has limited sensitivity and limited accuracy of measurement. It is an object of the present invention to provide a flow meter of the kind which described has improved sensitivity and is able to give more accurate measurements. According to the invention, a flow meter of the kind described is characterised in that the loop is generally helical with the exit portion crossing the entrance portion in spaced apart relationship, and the loop has a dimension L along the first axis Y Y and a dimension H along the second axis X X such that the ratio L H is greater than unity. Another known device which utilizes Coriolis forces to measure mass flow is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,109,524 entitled Method and Apparatus for Mass Flow Rate Measurement , issued August 29, 1978 to James E. Smith. In this patent an apparatus is disclosed wherein a mechanically reciprocating force is applied to first and second sections of a linear conduit by means of a beam that is disposed parallel to the first and second sections and has its ends mechanically linked to the adjacent ends of the two conduit sections. The adjacent ends of the first and second conduit sections are connected together by means of a short segment of conduit or flexible couplings and the opposite ends of each conduit section is separately supported in cantilever fashion to a base structure. The reciprocating forces applied to the conduit are resisted by separate Coriolis forces in the first and second conduit sections which act in opposite directions and induce a force moment about the center of the beam which is measured by a torque sensor. By measuring the force moment induced in the conduits and transferred to the beam by the Coriolis reactant forces, measurement of the mass flow through the conduit may be made. However, the measurement is complicated because of the need to avoid spurious measurements of the forces resulting from seismic or other vibrational forces transmitted through the support structure. Other similar devices are disclosed in the U.S. Patent to Wiley et al, No. 3,080,750 Sipin, 3,218,851 Souriau, 3,396,579 and Sipin, 3,329,019. Rather than use linear sections of conduit that are pivoted at opposite ends and reciprocated at the adjacent ends, a U tube or similar configuration is more commonly employed in mass flow measurement. In such cases the inlet and outlet ends of the legs of the U shaped tube are fixedly mounted to a base and the bight end of the U tube is reciprocated. The differential displacement of corresponding portions of the U tube legs caused by Coriolis influence on the flow is then measured as an indicator of mass flow rate. Such a technique and apparatus is suggested in the above mentioned Smith patent and is illustrated in U.S. Patent No. 4,187,721 for Method and Structure for Flow Measurement issued February 12, 1980 to James E. Smith, now RE 31,450. As disclosed in the referenced patent, a U shaped conduit is mounted in a cantilevered manner at the leg ends thereof and an oscillating means is mounted on a spring arm having a natural frequency substantially equal to that of the U shaped conduit and is used to provide up and down motion to the center of the bight end thereof. Measuring sensors flags and photodetectors are provided which detect the leading and trailing portions of the legs of the U shaped conduit as they pass through a plane defined by the U shaped conduit at substantially the mid point of its oscillation. The time differential of passage of the legs through the midplane is measured as an indication of mass flow rate. Essentially, the same structure is used in the subsequent Smith Patent No. 4,422,338 referenced below except that in the latter, a pair of velocity sensors are substituted for the photodetectors, and conditioning electronics are provided for developing signals corresponding to the passage of the side legs through the midplane. U.S. Patents 4,127,028 and 4,192,184 issued to Bruce M. Cox disclose flow meters having two U shaped flow tubes which are connected to form serial flow loops and which are vibrated like the tines of a tuning fork. U.S. Patent No. 4,252,028 discloses a flow meter having struts. Other prior art known to the present inventors may be found in the U.S. Patents to Barnaby et al, 2,752,173, Roth 2,865,201 and 3,049,919 Sipin 3,355,944 Sipin 3,485,098 Catherall 3,955,401 and Shiota 4,381,680, and the EPO application of Smith, Publication No. EP 0 083 144 A1 which corresponds to U.S. Patent No. 4,422,338. A listing of prior art utilising the Coriolis principle may be found in the above referenced Smith patent RE 31,450. In order that the invention may be more readily understood, embodiments thereof will now be described, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which The present invention is based upon the principle that a mass flowing through a looped tube or other straight or curved conduit and experiencing a velocity gradient transverse to the flow path will interact with the wall of the conduit with a force directly related to the transverse velocity gradient and the mass flow rate. When the velocity gradient is caused by the transverse motion of the loop or rotation of the loop about an axis other than the central axis of the loop, the reaction is known as a Coriolis force. The magnitude and direction of the reaction force depends upon the magnitude and direction of the mass flow. If two portions of the loop have the same transverse velocity gradient but have opposite directions of flow, a force couple consisting of equal and opposite reaction forces will result. In accordance with the present invention the result of this force couple is measured as a means of determining the mass flow rate through the conduit. Referring now to Fig. 1 of the drawings, for purposes of illustation there is shown an example of a generalized helical loop of conduit 10, with its crossed ends mounted to a base structure 12 and 14. The following general theory of the present invention applies for any shape of helical structure and any shape of tube cross section. The loop 10 may thus be considered to lie substantially in the X Y plane only for purposes of simplified mathematical analysis deviation of the tube in the Z direction normal to the X Y plane required to permit crossover is ignored. Accordingly, for a flow tube that is essentially symmetric in the X Y plane and around the X axis, the flow and total Coriolis force P where This equation can be used with another equation to be presented below to describe the dynamics of a loop with the following approximations namely, At the center of action point of the Coriolis force, each half loop has a certain participating mass . The center of action is the point where the resultant force of the distributed force for a half loop is applied and can be computed from the particular tube geometry and the general Coriolis force formula for individual mass elements. Participating mass is approximately the weight of the tubing and the fluid in each half loop but ignores the section between the X axis and the suspension point. This concept takes into account that the motion is not uniform for different points on the half loop. The participating mass can be experimentally determined by measuring the natural frequency of the bending mode of oscillation around the X axis and by comparing it with the theoretical natural frequency of the differential equation to be presented. The participating mass is determined so that the two natural frequencies agree. The differential equation describing inertial force, damping force and spring action force is where The natural frequency of equation 1 above expressed in radians unit time is The mode of natural oscillation defined by equations 2 and 3 will be referred to as the Coriolis mode . The spring factor B can be determined by static application of a force couple at the center of action points working in opposite directions approximately at the points 24 and 26 of the two sides of the loop 10 in the Z direction, and measuring the deflection of the center of action points. If the loop 10 is excited at point 20 by an oscillatory force in the Z direction which varies sinusoidally with an angular frequency of w, the Coriolis force P The phase shift between P In this example, from equation 4 it can be determined that the ratio of damping factor A to mass Mp is The amount of damping in this example results from the application of a proper amount of damping force to the loop as will be explained further below. With a different amount of damping, or a different selection of drive frequency w, but the same natural frequency in the Coriolis mode, a different amount of phase shift would occur. If the fluid density changes, the natural frequency of the Coriolis mode will change and the phase shift at the drive frequency will also change somewhat. For normal density changes of a fluid and for the purpose of calculating an approximate phase shift for a given fluid, and for implimenting an approximate compensation for the phase shift by a particular circuit to be described, the density change can be ignored. A method to compensate approximately for the phase shift between the Coriolis force couple and the structural position in a single or multi loop embodiment will be described. It is especially useful for digital signal analysis of the waveforms such as described herein. It is also applicable for different embodiments of the motion sensing devices as presented herein. The structual deflection g, where g is proportional to the magnitude of the Coriolis force couple with a factor predetermined by calibration. A linear combination of the time derivative g of g, and the integral of the same variable g for example, performed by an analog integration as will be shown below may be designated G where where g is a symbol defined by After Laplace transformation G may be expressed as By selection of the ratio K₁ K₂ , an arbitrary positive phase shift between 0 degrees and 90 degrees can be introduced relating the new function G to the measurement of g. This ratio is selected so that it creates a positive phase shift equal to the negative phase shift resulting from the inertia of movement as approximately described by the differential equation 2 . By the proper selection of K₁ K₂ there will be no significant phase shift between the computed variable G and the drive point velocity v In performing signal analysis, the variable G and the velocity of the drive point v The samples for G and v For dynamic Coriolis forces, using equation 6 the function G describing dynamic gap changes may be expressed as For simplicity, it may be assumed that K₂ is selected as equal to 1 K₃ and This expression illustrates that G is essentially the differential position, velocity or acceleration measurement modified by a derivative term to correct for the phase lag defined by equation 2 above. Since the variables P Defining One can also use the other regression line which is defined by The line which divides the angle between the two regression lines in half is given by One may, of course, use either one of the regression lines instead of the middle line. An illustration of F Referring now to Figure 2 of the drawing, a flow meter based on the principle of operation described with reference to Figure 1 is illustrated. In this flow meter a circular loop 30 of conduit is mounted to a base 32 by means of two standards 34 and 36. Note that loop 30 is deformed upwardly away from the pipe line axis 37 at 38 and downwardly at 40 to provide clearance at the cross over point 41. Alternatively, the pipe line matching deformations could have taken place outside the standards 34 and 36. Opposite cross over point 41 a loop actuating mechanism 42 is mounted to base 32 and has its force applying armature, or the like, electromagnetically coupled to loop 30 at 44. Actuating means 42 is of any suitable type which is capable of causing reciprocating motion of the engaged loop portion along the Z axis as defined in equation 2 above. Disposed on each side of the loop 30 are suitable sensors 46 and 48 which simultaneously detect the motion positions or any time derivative or time integral thereof such as velocity or acceleration of the loop points 50 and 52 relative to base 32 and communicate such measurement to a suitable indicator means 54 which will provide a measurement of the effects of the Coriolis forces and thus the mass flow through loop 30. A suitable circuit would be one which first calculates the difference between the properly weighted signals produced by 46 and 48. The weighting factors can be determined so that the difference is zero at zero flow. Alternatively, indicator 54 could be coupled to a suitable means 56 coupled to the crossing portions of loop 30 at the cross over point 41 and operative to output a signal indicative of the loop separation, relative velocity or relative acceleration such signal also serving to cause indicator 54 to indicate the mass flow through tube 30. The flow meter of Figure 2 has the disadvantage that it requires a rigid base 32 for supporting the standards 34 and 36 as well as the actuating mechanism 42 so as to prevent any vibration in the pipe line from being transmitted to the apparatus in a manner which would influence the measurement obtained thereby. It will be appreciated that in this flow meter, because of the rigid base, any vibrational motion transmitted from the pipe line to the base 32 will likewise be transmitted to the drive mechanism 42 and the loop position detectors 46 and 48. Accordingly, vibrational disturbances will not normally affect the accuracy of the measurement. However, it will also be appreciated that seismic disturbances may cause the loop 30 to move relative to the base and thus effect the accuracy of measurement. But, if the loop detection source is the detector 56, a large degree of isolation against seismic disturbance is afforded due to the fact that seismic motion in the Z direction will be equally applied to the upper and lower loop portions at the cross over point 41, and the two will be deflected in the same direction with equal intensity. In Figure 3 of the drawing, a modification of the Figure 2 flow meter is illustrated wherein instead of mounting the drive means directly to the base, the drive means 60 is mounted to a counter balancing structure 62 which is rigidly attached to the standards 64 and 66. In this flow meter the counter balancing arm 62 is configured to have the same natural frequency about its support axis as that of the loop 68, and is further provided with an adjustment slide weight 70 for allowing it to be adjusted to match different densities of the fluid expected to flow in loop 68. Accordingly, in this flow meter, even though rigid end mounts are required, the base does not need to be vibration resistant since the drive mechanism 60 is not attached directly to the base. Using this alternative, another possible source of error is also avoided in that vibrations generated by the flow meter drive 60 are effectively prevented from influencing the attached pipe line which might reflect energy back into the subject apparatus. It should be noted from the flow meters of Figures 2 and 3 that stresses induced in the tube at its attachment points to standards 34 64 and 36 66 due to actuation by the drive means 42 60 , i.e. drive mode stresses, are torsional rather than bending. On the other hand, stresses at such points caused by Coriolis forces, i.e. Coriolis mode stresses, are primarily bending in nature. In order to increase the sensitivity of the flow meter to Coriolis forces, serial and parallel combination of cross over loops such as are illustrated in Figure 4 to 6 of the drawing may be utilized. In the case the serial double cross over loop of Figure 4, a drive force might be applied between the two loops 70 and 72 causing deflection of the two loops in opposite directions. Means provided at 76 and 78 could detect changes in separation, i.e., relative position, velocity or acceleration between the loops, with the dynamic difference in separation being used for computation of the mass flow rate. Alternatively, detecting of the loop separations at 80 and 82, or the difference therebetween, could be used as mass flow rate indicators. Similarly, detection of separation between the loops at 84 could like wise be utilised. It will of course also be appreciated that the relative positions of corresponding portions of the individual loop above a base or other reference could also be detected as depicted in Figure 2 of the drawings, and the differences therebetween used to determine mass flow rate. The serial double cross over loop of Figure 4 has excellent flow sensitivity and is especially suited for measuring low flow rates. However, the structure is somewhat sensitive to outside vibrations and may require the use of damping schemes as described below. In the parallel loop flow meter illustrated in Figure 5, both loops are wound spirally in the same direction, while in the Figure 6 flow meter, the upper loop is wound spirally advancing downwardly while the lower loop is wound spirally advancing upwardly. With actuating forces applied between the loops at 86 in Figure 5, and 88 in Figure 6, in addition to the loop separation differential measurements position, velocity, acceleration or other time derivatives or integrals discussed relative to the Figure 2 embodiment, measurements could be taken of the top gap 100 114 in Figure 6 or the bottom gap 102 116 , or the difference between the top gap 100 114 and bottom gap 102 116 could be measured. Similarly, the differential loop characteristics of separation at 100 118 , 110 120 , 112 122 , could be taken as indicators, as could the differences between 110 and 112, 120 and 122 . Measuring the position difference or velocity of relative motion or acceleration between the upper and lower loops on opposite sides of the loops, and then calculating the differences between these distances or velocities or accelerations is the measurement mode which is believed to be the most sensitive to mas flow rate. The mass flow rate measurement sensitivity of the devices depicted in Figures 2 to 6 are further improved by configuring the loops in such a fashion that the ratio of the length L to the height H is greater than unity, i.e., L H 1 as shown in Figure 8. One such embodiment is illustrated in Figures 7 and 8 and includes a pair of axially elongated loops 125 and 127. The shape of the loops need not be precisely oval or rectangular but can be of arbitary shape so long as L H 1, where L is the loop length in axis flow direction and H is the loop height in the transverse flow direction. Loops of this configuration exhibit higher sensitivity to measuring mass flow in comparison with loops that have L H 1 or L H 1. In general, this higher sensitivity results from the fact that loops having L H 1 exhibit a drive mode natural frequency W In order to increase the sensitivity of some of the devices heretofore described, one possible modification is to incorporate structural linkages at the cross over points in the loop configurations depicted in Figs. 5, 7 and 8. These linkages are depicted in dashed lines at 128 and 129 in Figs. 7 and 8 wherein one link 129 connects the outermost legs of the loops and another link 128 interconnects the innermost legs at the loop cross over points. These cross links are rigidly affixed to the flow tubes and would typically be welded thereto. The width or thickness of the links is not cruicial to their performance. The cross links 128 and 129 enhance measurement sensitivity to mass flow rate as revealed by the following analysis. Careful examination of the structure with cross links, as shown in Fig. 7, indicates that the structural stiffness of the loop pair has been substantially increased for vibrations in the drive mode, i.e., response to forces applied approximately along the line of arrow D. However, the structures stiffness for vibrational motion in the Coriolis mode indicated by the arrow C remains substantially unchanged from that when the linkages are absent. Thus, the incorporation of these cross links has the effect of increasing the natural frequency of the drive mode relative to the natural frequency of the Coriolis mode, thereby increasing the dynamic amplification factor of the structure and, hence, its sensitivity to mass flow. As an alternative embodiment of difference measurement, the difference in phase angle O measured at a given signal level for the position, velocity or acceleration signals produced by sensors 46 and 48 in Fig. 2 can be used. If velocity sensors are used, F would be calculated from the equation where K loop flexibility constant defining the change in loop position at one of the velocity sensor locations per unit Coriolis force on the corresponding half loop. This constant K related to Young s Modulus depends on the temperature as well as material and geometrical dimensions of the loop. As a special embodiment, one can, during flowmeter usage in a process, measure the temperature of the tubular wall and input the value of the variable into a computing circuit or digital computer and calculate the current value of K. The change in K with temperature is tabulated in literature or can be determined experimentally. The value of K at a given reference temperature is determined by calibration for each flowmeter design or each individual unit. w Note that the phase angle difference Δ ϑ is equal to the drive frequency w Equation 19 is different from and more accurate than the equations presented and implemented in the prior art. Using differential phase angle and drive frequency measurement, it is desirable to drive the device at its resonant frequency because the waveform developed by detectors responding to Coriolis forces will be free of harmonics. Using position or acceleration sensors one can easily derive similar formulas. Well known prior art apparatus capable of detecting the phase angle differences is disclosed in Turning now to Fig. 9a of the drawing, one possible implementation of a drive system of the type depicted at 42 in Fig. 2 is illustrated in detail. Mounted to one tube 130 by means of a standoff 131 is a permanent magnet 132. Attached to the loop directly above, as illustrated by the tube segment 134, is a double coil mechanism 133 including an upper winding 136 and a lower winding 138 which are mechanically attached to each other by a member 140, but are electrically isolated from each other. The assembly 133 is mounted relative to magnet 132 such that as current is input to winding 136 a motive force will be applied the magnet which will tend to drive the loop segment 130 relative to the loop segment 132. As the magnet 132 moves within the lower coil 138, a signal will be induced therein which is proportional to the velocity of the magnet with respect to the velocity of the coil as it moves along the axis of the assembly 133. This signal, illustrated as the current i₁ is proportional to the velocity difference. The voltage created by i₁ in the resistor R₁ is input to a differential applifier A₁, which in turn will generate a voltage signal V₁ that is also proportional to the velocity difference. The voltage V₁ is then subtracted by an analog computing device 142 from an input voltage V₀ generated by an oscillator 144 that generates a suitable periodic voltage signal V₀ in a form such as a sine wave. The difference V₀ V₁ V₂ is then fed into an amplifier A₂ that generates a drive current i₂ which, on passing through the drive coil 136, produces a magnetic field that creates a magnetic force which acts on permanent magnet 132 causing it to oscillate up and down within the winding 136, thereby causing loop 130 to be moved up and down relative to loop 134. The purpose of the velocity feedback loop, including winding 138 and amplifier A, is to control the amplitude of the tube oscillation at a desirable magnitude, even if the oscillator is operated at or near the natural frequency of the tube. Without this velocity feedback, or some other means for applying damping force to the tubes, should the oscillatory frequency be set at the natural frequency of the tubes it would cause the tubes to be driven to their elastic limit and perhaps failure. The behavior of the closed feedback loop illustrated in Fig. 9a can be approximately described by the transfer function where The expression a KK₁K₂K₃K₄ shows that the normally small damping constant a without the velocity feedback loop has been enhanced. By selection of appropriate gain factors, damping can be chosen to make the drive amplitude and response signal V₁ follow the oscillation signal V₀ in a desirable fashion. Any flow tube will exhibit a natural mode of vibration with low damping. Artificial damping and control of the drive may of course be achieved as illustrated in Fig. 9a. However, to accomplish damping without velocity and amplitude control, a similar system, such as is illustrated in Fig. 9b, can also be used. Such a device would be a valuable addition to any type of Coriolis flow sensor, but would be an important improvement over the apparatus shown in the above referenced Smith patents. In this embodiment, a permanent magnet 150 is attached to the center loop portion 152 of a double serial loop device that is driven by an actuating assembly 154 such as was previously described at 133 in Fig. 9a. The magnet 150 is disposed to move vertically within a damping coil 156 which is rigidly attached to a device base 158. Connected across the winding of coil 156 is a variable load resistor R. The current induced in coil 156 by motion of the magnet 150 therewithin creates a current which passes through resistor R and which is proportional to the velocity of the motion of the magnet relative to coil 156. Energy generated by motion of the magnet within coil 156 will be absorbed by energy dissipated in the resistor R. Accordingly, by selection of coil size, number of turns, permanent magnet strength, and the value of resistor R, the extent of damping achieved by such device can be selected to accomodate a particular application. As another alternative which is shown in Fig. 9c damping coils 160 and 162 can be physically tied to velocity sense coils 164 and 166 in a double loop serial Fig. 4 or parallel Figs. 5 8 device configuration. In this particular embodiment, the velocity sense coils 164 and 166 are wound in opposite directions and connected together serially so that when both gaps close at the same rate, the total induced EMF is 0. The output currents developed by coils 164 and 166 in this embodiment are passed through a resistor R to develope a voltage that is fed into a differential amplifier 168 which in turn generates an output signal S that is proportional to the velocity difference between the relative motions of tube portions 161 and 165, and 163 and 167 respectively. The amplifiers 170 and 172, and the potentiometers P₁ and P₂ perform a phase shifting function to compensate for the phaseshift between the Coriolis and the related motion of the flow tubes as described mathematically by the equations 2 8 . This compensation is an alternative design feature which is especially useful with digital signal analysis schemes such as described by equations 9 18 . The signal S₁ is fed through the variable potentiometer P₁ to generate a proportional voltage that is fed into one side of the difference amplifier 170. Simultaneously, S₁ is also fed through the integrator 172 to develop a corresponding position signal S₀, and this signal is passed through the second potentiometer P₂ to generate a proportional voltage that is fed into the other side of amplifier 170. The resultant output signal S₂ generated is described by equation 8 where the coefficients K₁ and K₂ correspond to the settings of the potentiometers P₁ and P₂ respectively. Position information is obtained in this embodiment by integration of velocity or double integration of acceleration if such sensors are used , and difference in position can be computed by integration of the velocity difference or double integration of the acceleration difference , as shown in Fig. 9c, velocity data is equivalent to position information for the purpose of measurement. The effect of initial conditions associated with integration disappear quickly since the analysis of amplitude is made during many cycles of periodic excitation of the loop for each point of measurement of mass flow rate. In the illustrated embodiment, the sense coils 164 and 166 are connected serially so that, as suggested above, in phase motion of the tube portions 165 167 will produce opposing currents in the resistor R, thus resulting in a net voltage drop across R of 0. Under influence of flow through the tubes, induced Coriolis forces in the portions 165 and 167 will cause relative movement of these tube sections in opposite directions, and a net current resulting from the sum of the induced voltages in the sense coils 164 and 166 will be delivered through the resistor R. As indicated above, the voltage developed across resistor R is then fed into the differential amplifier 168 and the output thereof is integrated by 172 to convert the signal S₁, which represents the velocity difference between the relative motion between the tubes 161 and 165 and the tubes 163 and 167, to a separation difference signal S₀. In Fig. 10 the relationship between steady state signals with sinusoidal drive velocity is illustrated. More particularly, in part a of Fig. 10, the relative drive position of the tubes 130 134 is shown by the solid line 174, while the relative velocity curve corresponding thereto is shown by the dashed line 175. It will be noted that the velocity is the derivative of the driving motion and is therefore 90 degree out of phase therewith. If there were no flow in the illustrated tubes, it will be appreciated that the position of the tube segments 165 and 167 would be in phase with the position of tube segment 130. These positions are illustrated by the drive component curves 176 in part c and 177 in part b of Fig. 10. Similarly, it will be appreciated that any Coriolis induced deflection will be nearly in phase with the velocity component of the drive motion, and will be positive with respect to tube segment 167 and negative with respect to tube segment 165. Accordingly, by summing the Coriolis components and the drive components, the Coriolis induced positional displacements of tube segments 167 and 165 can be derived, and such displacements are respectively illustrated in parts b and c by the indicated waveforms 178 and 179. In part d , the difference between the position of curves 165 and 167 is depicted as 180 with no visible phase lag between drive velocity and Coriolis force. In actuality, it will be noted that there is a small phase lag of approximately minus one degree depending upon drive, Coriolis mode , natural frequency ratio and damping. Curve 181 illustrates this with exaggerated magnitude. Note also that the magnitude of the Coriolis component 178 or 179 is very small compared with the drive components 171 and 176, and that Fig. 10 shows exaggerated size of the Coriolis component for ease of illustration. For effective signal analysis using digital sampling of the drive velocity and the response to the Coriolis force, it is desirable that these signals be synchronized. By suitable selection of the settings of potentimeters P₁ and P₂ of the circuit of Fig. 9c appropriate compensation can be made such that the signal S₂ is caused to be exactly in phase with the drive velocity signal. A shortcoming of prior art velocity sensors of the type disclosed in the above identified EPO application of J.E. Smith, is that they are prone to mass flow measurement errors resulting from static deflections caused by thermal changes and variations in static pressure within the flow tube structure. This results from the fact that the velocity sense coil of the said prior art device is moving in a fringing and spatially non uniform magnetic field. This results in several undesirable effects all of which contribute to mass flow measurement error. The spatially non uniform field within which the sense coil moves results in unequal induced current contributions due to non uniform flux concentrations in the upper and lower legs of the coil. This can result in variations of the induced EMF and unwanted harmonic distortions in the induced EMF that are spatially dependent and that also change with static defections of the magnet and coil equilibrium positions resulting in flow errors and zero flow offset errors. Additionally, velocity sensors of the type depicted in the above referred to reference are more sensitive to relative motion of the magnet and coil in directions other than that of preferential interest in measuring mass flow. This results in more unacceptable sensitivity to unwanted vibrations that degrade measurement accuracy and signal to noise ratio. The above mentioned shortcomings can be allevitated by configuring the sensor as shown in Figs. 11 and 12. In this embodiment, a permanent magnet 182 carried by either another loop or a base structure not shown forms a gap 184 into which is placed, for vertical movement as indicated by the arrow 183, of electrical conductor 186 wrapped about a spool 187. Spool 187 is rigidly connected by a bracket 188 to the loop conduit shown in broken part at 189. As is well known by those skilled in the art, the flux field created is the gap between the pole faces of a magnet such as that illustrated, is quite uniform, and a straight conductor or bundle of conductors cutting through the flux field will have induced therein an EMF that is directly proportional to its movement across the field so long as such movement remains within the confines of the gap. Accordingly, the EMF induced in the winding 186 will be directly proportional to the vertical movement velocity to loop 189 relative to the magnet 182 and will not be subject to the disadvantages of the prior art mentioned above. In Fig. 13 an alternative sensing arrangement is illustrated wherein instead of utilizing an electromagnetic sensing means to sense relative motion between adjacent tube segments, or a tube segment and a base, a fiberoptic sensor may be utilized. In this case a fiberoptic bundle 190 is attached to the upper tube 192 and a reflective plate 195 is attached to the lower tube 194 or to a base . The fiberoptic sensor apparatus 196 then causes a beam of light to pass through a portion of the optical bundle 190, be reflected by the surface 195 and be returned through a different portion of the bundle 190 to the sensor 196 to effect positional detection. It will of course be understood that any other suitable means of detecting relative position or relative velocity or accelleration information may also be used in accordance with the present invention. The inclusion of density measurement as part of this invention is illustrated in Fig. 14 wherein for simplicity the Coriolis measuring apparatus is not shown. This feature utilizes the fact that the centrifugal forces acting upon each element of the fluid flowing in the looped portion 202 of tube 200 is directed from the center of curvature for the element perpendicular to the tube section the element is in. For the purpose of technical analysis, it is assumed that the centrifugal forces for the elements are not far removed from the plane of the drawing. Thus, the centrifugal force is inversely proportional to the radius of curvature for the element, proportional to the mass within the element and proportional to the square of the fluid velocity. Moreover, the centrifugal forces on the output half 204 of the loop will cause a pull to the left at point 205 and the forces on the input half 206 of the loop will cause a pull to the right at point 205. The opposing forces at 205 will thus cause a strain in the material that is related to the aggregate of the centrifugal forces on the whole test section. Since the Coriolis forces cause no strain at the point 205, measurement of the strain at that point 204 may be accomplished using a simple strain gauge 208. Moreover, a strain gauge measurement taken anywhere along the loop will furnish information permitting the accomplishment of a density measurement in conjunction with the Coriolis mass flow rate measurement although the calibration relationship will be more complex. For the illustrated configuration, the ratio of the total centrifugal force for the half loop 204 acting in the horizontal direction at the point 205, and the total Coriolis force acting upon the same half loop is directly proportional to the velocity of the material in the fluid and is independent of all other characteristics of the fluid. The density of the material in the conduit is directly proportional to the square of the measured mass flow divided by the centrifugual force acting upon the half loop. One circuit by which such information may be developed is illustrated in Fig. 15 and includes a means 210 for sampling the drive signal V₁ from Fig. 9a and signal S₂ from Fig. 9c , and strain gauge signal C from Fig. 14 , a means 212 for computing F