# Clip.

## Abstract
A one piece spring steel clip 46 for joining, in overlying fashion, a first panel 12 having a first elongated slot 18 therein to a second panel 14 having an elongated slot 42 adjacent and parallel to an edge 44 such that a strip 52 of substantially constant width is defined between said slot and said edge is provided. The clip 46 will join the members in overlying relationship whereby the joint formed is substantially rigid in the direction along the axis of the slots and is substantially rigid with a predetermined degree of resilient axial freedom in the direction tranverse the axis of the slots.

## Claims
CLAIMS. 1. A one piece sheet metal clip 46 for joining, in overlying fashion, a first panel 12 having a first elongated slot 20 therein to a second panel 14 having an elongated second slot 42 therein adjacent and parallel to an edge 44 of the panel 14 such that a strip 52 of substantially constant width is defined between said second slot 42 and said edge 44 , the first and second slots being of substantially the same length, characterised in that the clip is adapted to join the panels 12, 14 in overlying relationship whereby the joint formed is substantially rigid in the direction along the axis of the slots 20, 42 and is substantially rigid with a predetermined degree of resilient axial freedom in the direction transverse the axis of the slots 20, 42 . 2. A clip as claimed in claim 1 characterised in that it includes a generally U shaped body 48 taken in crosssection at either end thereof, said body 48 being of a length L generally equal to the length of said slots 20, 42 , that the body is defined by a pair of side walls 60, 62 joined by a bight portion 64 at oneend thereof and each having an outwardly extending flange 66, 68 which is turned inwardly at the free end thereof to define a pair of inwardly facing jaw members so extending from the other ends thereof, said jaw members 50 being separated by a distance 70 less than the width of said strip 52 in the non resiliently deformed state of said clip, and when said clips mounted to said second panel 14 with said strip 52 resiliently retained between said jaws 50 , that a cantilevered ramp member 54 is formed from each of said side walls 60, 62 and spaced inwardly from the ends of said side walls, said ramp members 5 each including a first portion 72 extending outwardly from said bight portion 64 to a shoulder 74 and a second portion 76 extending inwardly from said shoulder 74 towards said flanges 66, 68 , the distance 78 between said shoulders 74 and said flanges 66, 68 greater than the thickness 80 of said first panel 12 , said first panel 12 being retained between said second portions 76 and said flanges 66, 68 , the distance between said side walls 60, 62 being less than the width 92 of said first slot 20 and the distance between said shoulders 74 being greater than the width of said first slot 20 when said strip 52 is resiliently retained between said jaw members 50 in use of the clip 46 . 3. A clip as claimed in claim 2, characterised in that at least one of said ramp members 54 includes a locking tab 84 formed therefrom, said locking tab 84 being cantilevered from said ramp member 54 and extending outwardly from said first portion 72 beyond said smoulder 74 , the free end of said locking tab 84 engaging the side of the first panel 12 most distant from said second panel 14 in use of the clip 46 . 4. A clip as claimed in claim 2, characterised in that at least one of said ramp members 54 includes a locking tab 8 formed therefrom, said locking tab 84 being cantilevered from said ramp members 54 and extending outwardly from said first portion 72 beyond said shoulder 74 , the free end of said locking tab 84 being spaced from said flange 66, 68 by a distance 86 at least as great as the thickness 80 of said first panel 12 . 5. A clip as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 4, characterised in that said side walls 60, 62 converge inwardly toward said flanges 66, 68 in the non deformed condition of said clip 46 and are generally parallel when said jaw members 50 are separated by a distance equal to the width of said strip 52 . 6. A clip as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 4, characterised in that said first slot 220 comprises a relatively larger width section 280 for engaging said ramp members 54 interposed between two relatively smaller width sections 282, 284 for engaging said side walls 60, 62 , the length of said relatively larger width section 28 generally equal to the length of said ramp members 54 . 7. A clip as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that it includes a generally U shaped body 48 taken in crosssection at either end thereof, said body 48 being of a length L generally equal to the length of said slots, said body 48 being defined by a pair of side walls 60, 62 joined by a bight portion 64 at one end thereof and each having an outwardly extending flange 66, 68 which is turned inwardly at the free end thereof to define a pair of inwardly tacing jaw members so extending from the other ends thereof, the jaw members so being separated by a distance 70 less than the width of said strip 52 in the non resiliently deformed position of said clip 46 , that a cantilevered ramp member 54 formed from each of said side walls 6O, 62 and spaced inwardly from the ends of said side walls, said ramp members 54 each including a first portion 72 extending outwardly from said bight portion 64 to a shoulder 74 and a second portion 76 extending inwardly from said shoulder 74 towards said flanges 66, 68 the distance 78 between said shoulders 74 and said flanges 66, 68 being greater than the thickness 80 of said first panel 12 , that when said jaw members so are separated by a distance equal to the width of said strip 52 the distance between said side walls 60, 62 is less than the width of the portion of said first slot 20 engaged by said side walls 6o, 62 and the distance between said shoulders 74 is greater than the width of the portion of said first slot 20 engaged by said ramp members 54 . 8. A cip as claimed in any one of the preceding claims manufaci trred of spring steel. 9. A cllp as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 7, characterised in that the inwardly facing jaw members 150 are prodded with outwardly extending lead in elements 190 .

## Description
CLIP This invention relates to one piece spring steel fasteners, or clips, for joining two panels in overlying relation, and to the joint formed thereby, and in particular relates to one piece spring steel clips for joining a first panel having an elongated slot therein to an overlaying second panel having either a pair of parallel extending elongated slots therein or an elongated slot extending parallel to and adjacent an edge whereby a strip of substantially constant width is defined between said parallel slots or said slot and said edge to form a joint which is substantially rigid along the axis of the slots and is substantially rigid with a predetermined degree of resilient freedom in the direction transverse to the axis of the slot. Earlier means for fastening overlying panels, such as metallic members of a pallet or the like, in an overlying relationship have included permanent attachment as by welding or adhesives which are not totally satisfactory as the assembly created thereby could not be disassembled and or easily assembled in the field,and the joint created thereby tended to be excessively rigid without any flexibility and thus the panels and or the joint tended to fracture when same was subjected to shock loads or jolts or the like. Another method of fastening overlying panels involved the use of threaded fasteners. This method was not always totally satisfactory as both a male and a female threaded fastener element was required, precise alignments were required, and or excessive assembly time was required. The joints formed by said fastening method also tended to be excessively rigid causing failure of the fasteners and or the panels when the joints were subjected to shock loads or the like. Another method for joining two overlying panels involved the use of prior art spring steel fasteners.While this method was attractive in many circumstances, in certain circumstances wherein a relatively high degree of rigidity was required in one or more directions, the joint formed utilizing prior art fasteners tended to be excessively flexible. In accordance with the present invention, many of the drawbacks of the prior art hPve been minimized or overcome by means of a one piece sheet metal, such as spring steel, clip which is adapted for joining two overlying panels to form a Joint that is substantially rigid in one direction and is substantially rigid in the transverse direction with a predetermined degree of resilient freedom. One of the panels is provided with an elongated slot and the other panel is provided with either a pair of parallelly extending elongated slots or a single elongated slot adjacent to and parallel to an edge of said panel. The joint formed by the clip and the two panels is substantially rigid along the axis of the slots and is substantially rigid in the direction transverse the axis of the slots with a predetermired degree of resilient freedom.The clip is a one piece spring steel stamping and is quickly installed and may be provided with means to self lockingly join the two panels. The clip is preferably formed from a strip of sheet metal, preferably spring steel, and is elongated in elevation. The clip is generally U shaped in a cross section taken at either end thereof and includes a loop like body formed by two substantially parallel side walls joined by an arcuate bight portion. A flange extends outwardly from the end of each side wall most distant the bight portion and it includes an inwardly bent portion, or jaw, at the end thereof. In an alternate embodiment, a lead in ramp extends from each jaw portion for ease in assembling the clip to the other panel. Each side wall defines a cantilevered ramp portion formed therefrom and spaced inwardly from the ends of the side walls. The ramps diverge outwardly from the bight portion and then turn inwardly toward the flange portion to define a panel engaging shoulder.Preferably, the panel engaging shoulders are spaced from the outwardly extending flange portions by a distance somewhat greater than the thickness of the first panel member. A locking tab may be provided on the ramp portionsadjacent the shoulders thereof. The length of the loop portion is preferably substantially equal to the length of the single slot in the first panel while the distance between the side walls, in the assembled configuration of the clip, is somewhat less than the width of the portion of the slot in the first panel engaging the sidewalls and the distance between the shoulders is somewhat greater than the width of the portion of the slot in the first panel engaging the ramps.The length of the flanges is substantially equal to at least the length of the one slot in the second panel and preferably the slots and the loop and the flange portions are all of substantially equal length. In operation, the clip is assembled to the second panel, i.e., that panel having a pair of parallelly extending elongated slots or a single elongated slot extending adjacent and parallel to an edge, by resiliently entrapping the strip of the second panel between the two parallel slots or the strip of the second panel between the parallel slot and edge between the inwardly turned flange portions, or jaws, of the clip. In this position, the loop portion of the clip is substantially rigid in the direction of the axis of the slot as the length of the slot is substantially equal to the length ofthe clip and the distance between the side walls of the loop portion can not be substantially reduced as the strip of the second panel entrapped between the inward return flange portions will prevent the side walls from moving together.The slot in the first panel member is then aligned with and inserted over the loop portion and pushed toward the flange portion causing the ramps to resiliently move inwardly until the shoulders pass through the slot and then resiliently expand outwardly whereby the shoulders and or the locking tab will prevent removal of the first panel from the second panel. A degree of resilient freedom will be provided in the direction transverse the axis of the slots as the side edges of the slot may move in a direction transverse the axis of the slot by resiliently deforming the ramps until the edges of the slot engage the substantially riqid side walls of the loop portion of the clip. Embodiments of the invention will now be described, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which FIG. 1 is a perspective view of a single deck steel pallet utilizing a clip of the present invention FIG. 2 is a close up exploded view of the assembly of a stringer and a deck element in the pallet structure of FIG. 1 FIG. 3 is a sectional view taken on the line 3 3 of FIG. 2 in a disassembled position FIG. 4 is the same sectional view as FIG. 3 but in an assembled position. FIG. 5 is a perspective view of the clip FIG. 6 is an enlarged elevational view of the clip of FIG. 5 FIG. 7 is a side view of the clip of FIG. 6 FIG. 8 is a bottom view of the clip of FIG. 6 FIG. 9 is a sectional view of an alternate partial assembly utilizing the clip FIG. 10 is a side view of an alternate embodiment of the clip and FIG. 11 is an exploded view of a pallet employing the alternate clip of FIG. 10. Certain terminology will be used in the following description for convenience and reference only, and will not be limiting. raj he words top , bottom , inardly , and outwardly will refer respectively to the clip and the assemblies as shown in the figures. Said terminology will include the words above specifically mentioned, derivatives thereof, and words of similar import. The clips of the present invention, and the joint formed thereby, are illustrated in the embodiment of a single deck pallet but it will be clear to those skilled in the art that the principles of construction and interlocking arrangement may be applied to other assemblies whereby a pair of overlying panels are to be assembled.Referring firstly to Figs. 1 to 9 of the drawings, a pallet 10 constructed of light gauge steel, preferably corrosion resistant steel, for example, galvanized steel, includes three elongated members or stringer elements 12 and a plurality of deck forming elongate roll formed elements 14 joined to the upper surface 16 of the stringer elements 12 at each intersection thereof and spaced apart in relation to each other and generally perpendicular to the stringer elements 12. The deck forming elements 14 co operate to provide a load carrying deck on the top side of the pallet 10. The stringer elements 12 may be formed by welding together roll formed parts as is known in the prior art. In the illustrated embodiment, a single deck pallet is shown but it will be clear to those skilled in the art that the principles of construction and the interlocking arrangement may be applied to other pallet forms and or other typesof assemblies. At each intersection of the stringer elements 12 and a panel or surface of the deck forming elements 14, the stringer elements 12 are provided with an elongated slot, 18 or 20, formed in the upper surface of panel 16 of the stringer element. The deck forming elements 14 have a generally castellated structure which includes first and second elongate parallel co planar elements 22 and 24 which are joined by an integral member defining a channel 26 therebetween and including an elongate portion 28 situated in a plareparallel to the co planar element 22 and 24 and adapted to engage the upper surface 16 of the stringer element 12, and first and second upright elements 30 and 32 integrally joining the elongate portion 28 and the co planar element 22 and 24. The deck forming elements 14 also include integral skirt portions 34 and 36 depending from the co planar element 22 and 24 respectively, generally perpendicularly thereto at the sides of the deck forming member 14 for a distance substantially equal to the depth of the channel 26.The castellated structure described and illustrated for the deck forming element 14 represents a preferred structure for steel parts owing to the ease of roll forming that structure. However, if desired, the deck forming elements 14 may have a wholly planar top surface with one or more webs depending therefrom into engagement with the surface 16 of the stringer element 12, such as is described in U.S. PatentNo. 4,077,334. At the lower end of each skirt portion 34 and 36 are integrally formed flanges 38 and 40, respectively, the flanges extending the length of the skirt portions and being inwardly directed co planarly with the elongate portion 28. The inwardly directed flanges, 38 and 40, define the panels for engagement with the upper surface, or panel, 16 of the stringer element. At each intersection with a stringer element 12, the panels defined by flanges 38 and 40 are provided with an elongated slot 42 and a parallel cut away notch 44. As will be described in more detail below, the parallel cut away notch 44 could be replaced with a second parallel elongated slot or the cut away notch 44 could be eliminated and the slot 42 moved closer the edge of the flange 38 or 40. The slot 42 and notch 44 are provided to receive portions of a unitary clip element 46 for purposes of mounting the same on the deck forming elements 14. As may be seen particularly from FIGS. 3 and 5, the clip 46, constructed from a suitable resilient material, such as, preferably spring steel, has a generally U shaped body 48, a pair of oppositely facing jaws 50 located at the upper extremities of the body 48 for gripping the elongate metal strip 52 between the slot 42 and the cut away notch 44 to hold the clip element 46 to the flange element 38 or 40. The strip 52 is of a substantially constant width. The arms or sidewalls of the U shaped body 48 converge toward the upper end of the clip element when the clip element is in its rest or non deformed position as seen in FIG. 5, but are generally parallel to each other when mounted to the flanges 38 and 40 to add to the resiliency of the grip mounting of the clip element 46 on the deck forming element 14. The arms of the U shaped body 48 are each provided with cantilevered wing, or ramp element, 54, which diverges outwardly and then turns inwardly and terminates at an upper end in an inwardly directed portion. The structural and functional details of the clip 46 will be discussed in greater detail below. As may be seen from comparison of FIGS. 3 and 4, assembly of the stringer element 12 and the deck forming element 14 at each intersection of the pallet is achieved by inserting the lower U bend portion of the body member 48 of the clip member 46 into the respective elongated slot 18 or 20 in the stringer element 12, pushing the deck forming element 14 down so that the side edges of the slot 18 or 20 engage the wings or ramp elements 54 resiliently forcing them inwardly toward the remainder of the body portion 48 until the side edges of the opening 18 or 20 clear the shoulder portion of the ramp element 54, which then resiliently snaps back to its original position see FIG. 4 preventing removal of the clip member 46 from the respective opening 18 or 20.The wing or ramp member 54 may be provided with a locking tab 84 or the like to permanently mount a stringer member to a deck member. The inter engagement of the clips 46 with the slots 18 and 20 not only results in a sturdy assembly but also prevents longitudinal movement of the deck forming elements 14 transverse to the stringer element 12.Further, the interengagement of the clips 46 with the slots 18 and 20 allows a predetermined degree of resilient freedom of the deck element relative to the stringer element 12 in the direction of the axis of the stringer elements 12 but prevents such movement beyond the point when the side walls of the slots 18 or 20 engage the body portion 48 of the clip 46. rhe assembly so provided is superior to assemblies heretofor available as the deck elements 14 have a limited degree of resilient longitudinal freedom allowing them to resiliently absorb shock loads in that direction to prevent fracturing and damage to the elements while still providing a relatively rigid assembly in both the longitudinal and transverse directions. The clip 46 may be seen in a perspective view by reference to FIG. 5 and in elevation side and bottom views by reference to FIGS. 6, 7, and 8, respectively. The clip 46 is preferably formed from a strip of spring steel having suitable material characteristics as is well known in the art. The clip 46 has a length L which is substantially equal to the length of the slots 18, 20, and 42 and the length of the notch 44, with which it is intended to cooperate. Clip 46 has a generally U shaped body 48 comprising a pair of side walls 60 and 62 which are joined by a generally arcuate bight portion 64, and a pair of oppositely facing jaws 50 formed by outwardly extending flanges 66 and 68 which are inwardly bent at the outer extremities thereof. In the at rest, or non resiliently deformed, position of the clip 46, as may be seen by reference to FIG. 7, the side walls 60 and 62 converge toward the upper end of the clip element and the distance 70 between the oppositely facing jaw portions 50 is less than the width of the strip 52 between the slot 42 and the cut away notch 44 of the flange 40 of the deck member 14 in which the fastener will be resiliently retained. Of course, should a pair of parallel elongate slots or a single elongate slot parallel to the edge of a flange or panel member be utilized to xetain the fastener 46, the same dimensional relationships will apply.As may be seen by reference to FIGS. 3 or 4, when the clip 46 is mounted to the flange 40 so that the jaws resiliently engage the elongate strip 52 therebetween, the side walls 60 and 62 will be subztantially parallel and will be rigidly restrained from movement toward one another. A cantilevered wing, or ramp member 54 is cut out from each side wall portion. Each ramp member 54 includes a first portion 72 which diverges outwardly from the body from the bight portion toward the flange portion and terminates at an outer extremity or shoulder 74 and a second portion, 76, which turns inwardly toward the body portion from the shoulder 74 toward the flange 66 or 68.The distance 78 between the shoulder 74 of the ramp 54 and the upper surface of the flanges 66 or 68 is preferably somewhat greater than the thickness 80 of the upper surface 16 of the stringer element 12. The distance 82 between the free ends of the ramp member 54 and the upper surfaces of the flanges, 66 or 68, is somewhat less than the thickness 80 of the upper surface 16 of the stringer element 12. Thus, as may be seen by reference to FIG. 4, when the stringer element 12 is assembled to the deck element 14 utilizing the clip 46, the upper surface 16 of the stringer element 12 will be retained between the second portion 76 of the clip 46 and the flanges 66 or 68 of the clip 46. If required, a cantilevered locking tab 84 may be formed from the ramp portions adjacent the shoulders 74 thereof.Preferably, the distance 86 between the free ends of the locking tab 84 and the upper surfaces of the flanges 66 or 68, will be substantially equal to the thickness 80 of the upper surface 16 of stringer 12 to provide a self locking engagement of stringer 12 to deck element 14, as the free ends of the locking tabs engage the bottom wall of surface or panel 16 of the stringer 12. As may be seen by reference to FIG. 4, the transverse distance 88 between the side walls of the clip 46, when the clip is assembled to deck.member 14, is substantially rigid fixed while the transverse distance 90 between the shoulders 74 of the ramp members is relatively resilient variable . Preferably, the width 92 of the slots 18 or 20 is greater than the distance 88 but les than the distance 90. Thus, in the assembled position, deck element 14 may move transversely relative to stringer 12 with a certain degree of resilient freedom until the side edges of slot 18 or 20 engage the side walls 60 or 62 of the clip 46 at which point further transverse movement will be prevented. An alternate mounting of the clip 46 of the present invention may be seen by reference to FIG. 9. In this embodiment, the clip 46 is mounted in a panel P which is provided with a pair of parallelly extending elongated slots 94 and 96 defining an elongated strip 98 therebetween having a width substantially equal to the width of the elongated slot 52 discussed above. In all other respects, the clip 46 and the joint to be formed thereby is substantially identical to the clip 46 described above. A similar modification is possible utilizing a panel having an elongated slot extending substantially parallelly to the edge of the panel and defining an elongated strip therebetween. An alternate embodiment 146 of the clip of the present invention may be seen by reference to FIG. 10. Clip 146 is substantially identical to clip 46 described above except for the provision of lead in elements, or ramps, 190, which extend outwardly from jaws 150. Leaden ramps 190 will allow clip 146 to be assembled to a panel P as shown in FIG. 9 by simply placing the lead in ramps 190 against slots 94 and 96 and then upwardly urging the clip 146 towards the panel P to resiliently separate the inturned jaws 150. An alternate embodiment of the pallet may be seen by reference to FIG. 11. The pallet illustrated in FIG.11 is substantially identical to that illustrated in FIG.2 except that the elongated slots 218 and 220 in stringer element 212 comprises an enlarged width section 280 interposed between reduced width sections 282 and 284.The width of the enlarged width section 280 is greater than distance 90. The width of the reduced width sections 282 and 284 is generally equal to distance 88. The length of enlarged width section 280 is generally equal to the length of the ramp members 54.