# Protective laminate and method of use.

## Abstract
A protective, easily removable laminate for application to the carpeting, and decorative seat and wall covering material of vehicles includes a plastic film coated on one surface with an acrylic resin based pressure sensitive adhesive. The film, in one form of the invention, is comprised of unoriented poly propylene capable of stretching and withstanding deep draw ing and resisting the heat involved in thermoforming. The pres sure sensitive adhesive is essentially of the type which does not adversely affect paint or trim material and which ahs prefer ential adhesion failure to the carpeting or seat or wall covering rather than to the film. In another form of the invention, the film, where it is not to be subjected to thermoforming operations, may be of a different composition such as polyethylene tereph thalate, oriented polypropylene, polyethylene, or polyvinyl chloride. The method of employing the film in all forms of the invention is to apply the pressure sensitive adhesive to one surface of the film. The film is then applied to the carpeting or other material which can be stored and transported in roll form. By virtue of the adhesive, the film adheres to the carpet or other material until physically removed therefrom. The method further includes cutting the material into squares, die cutting it, and punching holes where required. The laminate of the material and the film is then installed in the vehicle and upon delivery of the finished vehicle to the dealer, the film can thus be removed. In some instances the material is also thermoformed prior to die cutting.